 Betty Kenward, who exhaustively and uncritically chronicled the lives of England's upper classes at their dinners, balls, race meetings and country weekends in the pages of London's toniest magazines, died last Wednesday in London. She was 94. A snob and proud of it, Mrs. Kenward co
 ANDERSON-Constance Myers. On January 31st, 2001, at Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA, at the age of 102. Wife of the late Dr. Arthur Forrest Anderson of NY and Wilton, CT, she was the mother of Constance A. Tate of Wilton and the late Forrest G. Anderson. She leaves three grandsons: the Very 
 BROZMAN-Melba V. On January 28, 2001, at age 64. Best wife, mother and friend that God ever created. Melba will never be forgotten by her family and many, many friends. Beloved wife of Shep and loving mother of Owen. Contributions in her memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospit
 CHAPPELL-Elizabeth Greenleaf. Age 90, of Somers, NY, died peacefully at her home on January 29, 2001. She was the wife of the late William B. Chappell. Her survivors include a son, William B. Chappell, Jr. of Pawling, NY, a daughter, Lydia Chappell of Cos Cob, CT, two grandchildren and two 
 COHEN-Marilyn. Died peacefully on January 30th, 2001. Surviving are her deeply loving husband, Max, her adoring children, Ellen and Ronald Murphy and Donald and Diane Cohen; her four adoring grandchildren, Emily and Jared Cohen and Alexandra and Joanna Murphy; and by her brother and sister-
 KASS-Elaine G., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague. Dr. Kass began her affiliation with Mount Sinai in 1959, when she began her residency in the Department of Pediatrics. She was a highly respected teache
 MARX-Dorothy (Sachs), 79, peacefully on January 30, 2001. after a courageous, high-spirited struggle with illness for five years. She was the flowing center and the welcoming heart for all who knew and loved her. We grieve her loss as we are inspired by her all-caring love, her exquisite ta
 MESNICK-Elaine. On January 29. Beloved wife of the late Sheldon for 33 years. Cherished mother of Marcia Waitzman, Susan Gilbert and Mishie Palter and sons-in-law David, Sam and Greg. Devoted sister of Janice and Harold Orbuch & adoring grandmother of Joshua, Rachel, Michael and Rebecca. El
 ROSENBERG-Lee. On the occasion of her first Yahrzeit. We love you and miss you terribly. Stanley, Maddi-Jane & David, Jonathan & Iris, Neal, Daniel & Maureen, Elana & Todd, Rebecca, Erik, Jodie, Catherine, Paul, Joseph & Muriel       
 A tribute to Beverley Peck Johnson, a voice teacher and faculty member at the Juilliard School of Music, will take place on Monday at 5 p.m. at the Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Manhattan. Ms. Johnson died on Jan. 20 at 96. The memorial service, which is open to the publi
 ANDERSON-Constance Myers. On January 31st, 2001, at Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA, at the age of 102. Wife of the late Dr. Arthur Forrest Anderson of NY and Wilton, CT, she was the mother of Constance A. Tate of Wilton and the late Forrest G. Anderson. She leaves three grandsons: the Very 
 APPEL-Gloria W. Suddenly on January 31. Remembered with love and joy by her children: Carley Broder, Michael Broder and Rita Rubin, Charles Broder and Celeste Hoppey-Broder, and Betsy Broder and David Wentworth. Proud grandmother of Elexa, Ethan, Hannah and Aliza Broder and Ariel and Caroli
 BIBLE-Frances. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of one of its most revered and beloved company members. She passed away on January 29 in Hemet, CA., at the age of eightytwo after a brief illness. As a leading artist with NYCO from 1948-1977, she created some of the most vibrant
 KASS-Elaine, M.D. Dr. Frank Ross, Director of Medicine, Dr. Joseph Masci, Associate Director of Medicine, and the staff of the Department of Medicine at Elmhurst Hospital Center, express profound sorrow at the passing of our esteemed colleague and cherished friend Dr. Elaine Kass, Associate
 MARX-Dorothy (Sachs), 79, peacefully on January 30, 2001. after a courageous, high-spirited struggle with illness for five years. She was the glowing center and the welcoming heart for all who knew and loved her. We grieve her loss as we are inspired by her all-caring love, her exquisite ta
 ROOSEVELT-Anne Mason Babcock. Of Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, PA, died on Monday January 29, 2001. Beloved wife of Theodore Roosevelt, III, she is also survived by her son Theodore Roosevelt, IV, daughter-in-law Constance Rogers Roosevelt and a grandson, Theodore Roosevelt, V. Service and interme
 SPIRO-Helen. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Helen Ganz Spiro. Helen and her late husband, Manny, had been members of Fairview since 1946. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences
 WALLACE-Daphne (Pat). On January 28, 2001 in Philadelphia, PA. Her husband Harold, her children, grandchildren, extended family and many friends, will eternally miss her strength, character and devotion. Services Monday, February 5, 1:00 PM, at St. Phillips Church.       
 WOLF-Lona B. Born June 15, 1910, died peacefully at home on January 31, 2001. Beloved sister of Emma C. Lynaugh, Frances M. Deegan and Harry J. Wolf. Devoted sister-in-law of Marie Giblin Wolf, Marie Frey Wolf and Agnes Morr Wolf. Adored ''Auntie'' to her many nieces, nephews, grandnieces a
 Carol Anne Letheren, a member of the International Olympic Committee from Canada, died yesterday, two days after collapsing while giving a speech in Toronto. She was 58. The cause of the collapse was a brain aneurysm, according to The Associated Press. Ms. Letheren was stric
 Constance Myers Anderson, a former head of both the New York City and national Young Women's Christian Association, died Jan. 31 at her retirement home in Kennett Square, Penn. Mrs. Anderson, a former resident of New York City and of Wilton, Conn., was 102. Mrs. Anderson, a 1919 gra
 Dare Wright, a photographer and children's book author whose best-known work is ''The Lonely Doll,'' died on Jan. 25. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Wright's story about Edith, the lonely doll befriended by a pair of teddy bears, was first published in 1957 by Doubleday and 
 ALTMAN-Ernestine. On January 31, 2001. Beloved mother of Joan Schmulson. Mother-in-law of Barry. Devoted grandmother of Louis and Robin. Her memory will be cherished forever. Funeral services on Sunday, February 4, at 12:30 PM from ''Garlick-Riverside Memorial Chapel'' 1439 Unionport Road, 
 APPEL-Gloria W. Suddenly on January 31. Remembered with love and joy by her children: Carley Broder, Michael Broder and Rita Rubin, Charles Broder and Celeste Hoppey-Broder, and Betsy Broder and David Wentworth. Proud grandmother of Elexa, Ethan, Hannah and Aliza Broder and Ariel and Caroli
 HURLEY-Miriam. Of Boston and Chilmark, Marthas Vineyard (formerly of Weston) on Thursday, February 1, 2001. Miriam Greene Hurley, age 90. Wife of the late Donald J. Hurley. Mother of Cornelia Hurley McPeek of Chestnut Hill, Donald Hurley, Jr. of Lloyd Harbor, NY, Stephen Nash Hurley of Bost
 WERLINICH-Elizabeth McKee. 52, of New York City and Southampton, NY, succumbed to cancer on Dec. 19, 2000, ending a courageous seven-year battle. She is survived by her loving husband of 25 years Douglas, her mother Elinor H. McKee of Corvallis, Oregon and Larchmont, NY, her brothers Richar
 WOLF-Lona B. Born June 15, 1910, died peacefully at home on January 31, 2001. Beloved sister of Emma C. Lynaugh, Frances M. Deegan and Harry J. Wolf. Devoted sister-in-law of Marie Giblin Wolf, Marie Frey Wolf and Agnes Morr Wolf. Adored ''Auntie'' to her many nieces, nephews, grandnieces a
 ABRAMSON-Dorothy. In her 96th year, on February 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harold for 73 years. Devoted mother of Carol Sahn Dorfman and Susan Schwartz, dear mother-in-law of Robert R. Schwartz. Devoted grandmother (Nana) of Mitchell and Karen Sahn, Robert Sahn, Lori Rosenfeld. Eric 
 ALEXANDRE - Olivia Dulany Wheeler Post. Died quietly at home on Saturday, January 21st. She was born in 1903, was twice widowed and leaves three stepchildren: Nancy Post Magro, George B. Post and L. Jerome Alexandre. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church Saturday, February 17 
 APPEL-Gloria W. The members, trustees, directors, officers and employees of the Louis and Harold Price Foundation and The Price Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies mourn the passing of the beloved President of both Organizations, Gloria Appel. She played a major role for more than 20 year
 BRUCE-Eileen Milward. Wife of the late James Bruce, Jr., died February 2, 2001 in Fairfield, CT. Mother of James Bruce, III of San Francisco, CA and Dana Bruce of Milford, CT, grandmother of Kingston Fallon of Stamford, CT and Bruce Fallon of Boston, MA. Funeral services are private. Donati
 CHESSLER-Gertrude (nee Bieber). 88, February 1, 2001, peacefully, in Roslyn, NY, formerly of Hollywood, FL. Now again as one with her late, beloved husband George. Dearest mother of Ronald Chessler, Dolly and Andrew Weisinger. Loving grandmother of Joy (Steven), Michael, Debra (Jeff), Amy (
 CRANE-Margery Atwater. On February 3, 2001. Widow of Ralph T. Crane. Survived by her children Tom, Margaret and Phil. Loved and admired by many. Memorial service to be held in early summer in Quogue, NY.       
 GILLESPIE-Jane L. Of Vero Beach, Florida. She was predeceased by her husband David J. Gillespie and was former Associate Office Manager with Kenyon & Eckhardt Advertising, Inc. in Detroit and New York. Survived by a daughter and four grandchildren. For information Strunk Funeral Home, Vero 
 GOLDBERG-Sylvia G. Passed away in San Antonio, Texas, January 30, 2001, after a brief illness. She was born on August 31, 1909, in Hartford, Connecticut to Frances and Julius Ginewsky. Mrs. Goldberg and her husband, Jay Goldberg, an internationally renowned textile engineer, first lived in 
 GOLDEN-Vicki Greene. Of Minturn, CO, and Washington, DC, on February 3, 2001. Remembered with love and pride by her husband, Chuck Wiester, her children, Eric and Megan Golden, her grandchildren Anna, Eliza and Jonathan, and brothers Lee and Michael Greene. Memorial service will be held at 
 GOLDING-Judge Elizabeth Bass. The Board of Directors, staff, parents and students of the The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County (HANC) mourn the loss on Tuesday, January 30, of longtime friend, supporter, benefactor and honorary member of the HANC Board of Directors, Judge Elizabeth Bass Goldi
 HEINEMANN-Helen Lillian. Died February 1, 2001, after a long battle with cancer. Helen was the beloved wife of Harry and the devoted mother of David and Tammy, Richard, and Cindy and Kevin Gold. Proud grandmother of Eric, Max and Aaron. Loving sister to Ruth Daub and Sidney Stern. She loved
 HURLEY-Miriam Greene. Age 90, of Boston and Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard (formerly of Weston), on Thursday, February 1, 2001. Wife of the late Donald J. Hurley. Mother of Cornelia Hurley McPeek of Chestnut Hill, Donald Hurley, Jr. of Lloyd Harbor, NY, Stephen Nash Hurley of Boston and Rosamo
 JUSTIN-Miriam. Died peacefully at age 94 on February 3, 2001. Beloved mother of Barbara Handler and her husband Mark, Jane Justin and her long time partner Les Suchman. Grandma Mim to Jody and Neal Cooper, Jonathan Handler and Penni Sibun. Great-grandmother for the first time on January 17,
 McGRATH-Stella A. A memorial service was held on February 3. She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. Barbara Sullivan, Mrs. Nancy Johns and Mrs. Suzanne Dunn, and nine grandchildren, and nine great grandchildren.       
 MULLIN-Dr. Margaret M. On February 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Matthew Kabriski who preceded her in death January 1, 2000. Dr. Mullin was born August 12, 1910, in NYC. She enjoyed a long career of teaching and guidance, influencing the lives of thousands of students for nearly 50 year
 OWEN-Betty. Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Eastchester, NY, died Feb. 1, 2001 at age 93. Survived by her daughter Phyllis Elbe (Peter), three grandchildren, Michael Owen Elbe, Barbara Elbe Reiter (Barry) and Susan Elbe Lowy (Lloyd), and six greatgrandchildren, Parker Owen Elbe; Matthew
 PERLMAN-Jennifer Rachel, 34. Died quietly at her home in San Francisco on January 24th, 2001, following a seven month battle with cancer. She was surrounded by family and friends, who loved her dearly. She embraced life and brought incredible warmth and joy to many. She leaves her beloved h
 SCHER-Ella (Bernard). At age 91, passed away peacefully in her sleep on February 1, 2001, at her home in Palm Beach, Florida. She was a true Aishes Chayil (woman of valor). She was the widow of Doctor Samuel Scher, who passed away six weeks ago. Ella was the first woman criminal lawyer in N
 WALLACE-Daphne (Pat). On January 28, 2001 in Philadelphia, PA. Her husband Harold, her children, grandchildren, extended family and many friends, will eternally miss her strength, character and devotion. Services Monday, February 5, 10AM, at St. Phillips Church.       
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. June 4, 1930 to February 7, 1997. Beloved sister, may her memory be a blessing.       
 ABRAMSON-Dorothy. In her 96th year, on February 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harold for 73 years. Devoted mother of Carol Sahn Dorfman and Susan Schwartz, dear mother-in-law of Robert R. Schwartz. Devoted grandmother (Nana) of Mitchell and Karen Sahn, Robert Sahn, Lori Rosenfeld, Eric 
 ADOLF-Rosalie K. Gentle, generous and gracious lady. Devoted wife of the late Norman L. Adolf. Caring mother of Benine Adolf and Sally Laurent (Neil). Grandmother of Nate and Ben. Longtime active member of National Council of Jewish Women; volunteer at LIJ Hospital; graduate and benefactor 
 ALEXANDRE - Olivia Dulany Wheeler Post. Died quietly at home on Saturday, January 21st. She was born in 1903, was twice widowed and leaves three stepchildren: Nancy Post Magro, George B. Post and L. Jerome Alexandre. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church Saturday, February 17 
 APPEL-Gloria W. The Board of Trustees, the Officers and Staff of Babson College mourn the passing of a distinguished member of our Board. Gloria Appel will be remembered for her spontaneous initiative and thoughtful insight in moving the Women's Leadership Program forward, and for the gener
 GOLDMAN - Florence Dreizen. Age 84, of Atlanta, GA, and formerly of New Rochelle, NY, on February 3, 2001. Florence enjoyed floral arranging and won several blue ribbons for her accomplishments. Survived by her husband Harold J. Goldman, her children Nancy E. Levy and her husband Paul, Dr. 
 GREENBLATT-Anita. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed ex-member, Anita Greenblatt, and extend to her beloved husband Nathan and family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Brian J. Strum, Secretary 
 HURLEY-Miriam Greene. Age 90, of Boston and Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard (formerly of Weston), on Thursday, February 1, 2001. Wife of the late Donald J. Hurley. Mother of Cornelia Hurley McPeek of Chestnut Hill, Donald Hurley, Jr. of Lloyd Harbor, NY, Stephen Nash Hurley of Boston and Rosamo
 JUSTIN-Miriam. Died peacefully at age 94 on February 3, 2001. Beloved mother of Barbara Handler and her husband Mark, Jane Justin and her long time partner Les Suchman. Grandma Mim to Jody and Neal Cooper, Jonathan Handler and Penni Sibun. Great-grandmother for the first time on January 17,
 KOCIVAR-Julius. We, the colleagues of Temmy Kocivar, mourn with her the death of her beloved husband, Julius, and devoted father to Ira, David and Robert. We pray that God will comfort them in the hours of their grief. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster and the Staff of Shelter Rock Jewish Center      
 LYON-Rosalind Kaufmann. Died peacefully at her home on February 3, 2001, at the age of 90, following a long illness. She lived all her life in Manhattan. She was a graduate of the Ethical Culture School and Wellesley College, and was a noted amateur golfer. During WWII, she assisted the war
 MULLIN-Dr. Margaret M. On February 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Matthew Kabriski who preceded her in death January 1, 2000. Dr. Mullin was born August 12, 1910, in NYC. She enjoyed a long career of teaching and guidance, influencing the lives of thousands of students for nearly 50 year
 NETTER - Kimberly Lawrence. Beloved wife of Donald T. Netter, and devoted mother of her labradors Paloma (10), De Neiges (8), Cricket (5) and Scout (six months), and her horse, Justice, passed away Friday evening, February 2, 2001, at the age of 44, after a courageous 11 year battle with br
 Mirra Ginsberg, a noted translator of works by Dostoyevsky, Mikhail Bulgakov and Isaac Bashevis Singer, died on Dec. 26 on Long Island. She was 91. Born in Russia on June 10, 1909, Ms. Ginsberg moved with her family to Canada and then to the United States, said her cousin, Barbara F
 ALEXANDRE - Olivia Dulany Wheeler Post. Died quietly at home on Saturday, January 21st. She was born in 1903, was twice widowed and leaves three stepchildren: Nancy Post Magro, George B. Post and L. Jerome Alexandre. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church Saturday, February 17 
 BORTZ-Bernard. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and its Men's Division record with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved father of Joyce Fiedler and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her; to her husband, Jeffrey; and to their entire family. Yeshiva University Dr
 FRANKENTHALER - Bernice. Feb. 5, 2001. Loving wife of the late Norman, beloved mother of Judy Mydans of Denver Co., and Robert Frankenthaler of Boston Ma. Devoted grandmother of Dan, Lindsay, Amy, Jill, and Scott. A dedicated educator in the New York City school system for 32 years. Her car
 GOLDING-Elizabeth Bass. The trustees, faculty, staff, alumni and students of New York University Law School are deeply saddened by the loss of Judge Elizabeth Bass Golding, Class of 1921. Judge Golding was a pioneer at a time when few women took up the challenge of the legal profession. Jud
 HANDLER - Muriel (Dottie) Meiselman, 81, of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away Sunday, February 4, 2001. Predeceased by her first husband, Sanford Meiselman. Beloved wife of Abraham Handler, cherished mother of Jay and Kenneth Meiselman and Mark Phillips, loving grandmother of six, dear sister of 
 HARTMAN-Bertha. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully in her sleep in Vancouver, Canada on January 31, 2001 at age 85. Bertha balanced her joy and involvement with her family with an active dedication to social progress. All who knew her through her many years of teaching and political
 HURLEY-Miriam Greene. Age 90, of Boston and Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard (formerly of Weston), on Thursday, February 1, 2001. Wife of the late Donald J. Hurley. Mother of Cornelia Hurley McPeek of Chestnut Hill, Donald Hurley, Jr. of Lloyd Harbor, NY, Stephen Nash Hurley of Boston and Rosamo
 JERONIMO-Dolores. Died on February 3rd, 2001 in Anna Maria, FL. Wife of the late Armand Jeronimo. Mother of Bob and Corky and grandmother of Matthew, Alexandra and Nicholas. She will be deeply missed. No services. Donations in her memory to Hospice of Southwest Florida, 3355 26th Street W.,
 McGUIRE-Mary Alice Adams, aged 96, of Throggs Neck, Bronx, New York. Died peacefully in her home on February 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late James J. McGuire. She is survived by her sons, James (Elizabeth Tompkins), Robert (Joan Wroldsen), Raymond (Judith Severs), and daughter Anne Ferrar
 MEYER-Audrey (nee Kittel), 87. Loving wife of the late Yale Meyer, most precious & beautiful mother of Gretchen Salisbury Weir and David Meyer, most dear to her son-in-law David Weir and daughter-in-law Helena Solberg, beloved aunt of Jane Rue Adams, cherished great-aunt of Marni Jaime and 
 MULLIN-Dr. Margaret M. On February 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Matthew Kabriski who preceded her in death January 1, 2000. Dr. Mullin was born August 12, 1910, in NYC. She enjoyed a long career of teaching and guidance, influencing the lives of thousands of students for nearly 50 year
 NETTER - Kimberly Lawrence. The Rockefeller University community notes with sorrow the passing of Kimberly Netter, beloved wife of our Council member Donald T. Netter. Her life story is deeply inspiring. We will always remember her enormous courage and amazing spirit in the face of her stru
 ROSOW-Rosalyn (Raye). On February 5, 2001. Raye is survived by her husband, Jerome, her sons, Michael and Joel, her sister, Sorrell Caplan, and five grandchildren. A memorial service is planned for 12 noon, Thursday, at the Ballard - Durand Funeral Home, 2 Maple Ave., White Plains, NY. The 
 WOLF-Roslyn. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Roslyn Wolf, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 GORMAN-Ethel. Lovingly remembered by her children and grandchildren. Linda, Doug, Abby and Richard       
 Frances Bible, a mezzo-soprano who performed in the New York City Opera for nearly 30 years and created roles in several contemporary works, died on Jan. 29 in Hemet, Calif., where she lived. She was 82. Ms. Bible's warm voice and lively stage presence -- particularly in trouser rol
 FRANKENTHALER - Bernice. Feb. 5, 2001. Loving wife of the late Norman, beloved mother of Judy Mydans of Denver Co., and Robert Frankenthaler of Boston Ma. Devoted grandmother of Dan, Lindsay, Amy, Jill, and Scott. A dedicated educator in the New York City school system for 32 years. Her car
 FREEDBERG-Ann. A remarkable woman who indelibly touched the lives of those she met. Loved by her children, David and Karen, and her grandchildren, Andrew and Elissa. Gifts in her memory may be made to The Mount Sinai Visiting Doctors Program, in care of Dr. David Muller.       
 MARKS-Sondra Dorothy Kahan. Died on February 5, 2001. She is survived by her loving friends and family; her daughter Leslie, her sister Alice, and her brothers Leo and David. ''The dead will always be with us.'' Services Thursday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 180 West 76 Street.       
 MULLIN-Dr. Margaret M. On February 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Matthew Kabriski who preceded her in death January 1, 2000. Dr. Mullin was born August 12, 1910, in NYC. She enjoyed a long career of teaching and guidance, influencing the lives of thousands of students for nearly 50 year
 SCHERTZER-Florence. On February 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Bert Hart. Adoring mother of Elaine and Joel Burzin, and Diane Susan and Craig Sim. Devoted grandmother to Brandon, Stephanie, Beth and Jill. A courageous, warm and gracious woman. A good friend to all who knew her. She will 
 WAGNER-Ruth. Beloved mother of Barbara Ordover, Aileen Nathan, Joan Smith. Honored friend and mother-in-law of Buddy Ordover, and Jack Nathan. Loving grandmother of Mark Ordover, Susan and Peter Weiss, Susan and Ed Vidal, Richard and Dana Smith, John Smith. Great-grandmother of Melissa, Lor
 ZOCK-Sara Margaret Kurr (private philanthropist), died in her Sea Girt, New Jersey home on January 31, 2001 after a very brief illness. She had celebrated her 97th birthday on January 19th. She was born in Bethel, Pennsylvania in 1904. She taught first to third grades in a one-room schoolho
 Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the lyrical author and aviator whose marriage to Charles A. Lindbergh brought her both joy and tragedy, died yesterday at her home in Passumpsic, Vt. She was 94. Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that h
 Dale Evans, who won the hearts of millions of Americans as she rode alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the early years of television, died yesterday at her home in Apple Valley, Calif., east of Los Angeles. She was 88. Miss Evans ha
 GORDON-Florence. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Friedman, Murray Gordon and devoted companion of the late Allan Gitter. Devoted mother of Frederick and Susan Friedman, Neil and Dana Bieff, Anita and Harvey Friedman. Adored grandmother of Stephanie and Andrea Friedman, Gwyn and Atticus Bie
 HAHN-Shirley. On February 6, 2001. Beloved wife to Stanley. Loving mother of Steven and Robert. Cherished grandmother of Declan and Saiorse. Services Thursday, 2:30 at Menorah Gardens and Funeral Chapel, 9321 Memorial Park Rd., W. Palm Beach, FL, 561627-2277. Donations may be made to the Am
 NULAND-Ky in her 78th year. Wife of Jay, mother of Jamie, Tim, Chris and the late Pat. Sister of John and Patricia. Grandmother of 9. Private Mass of Christian Burial. Memorial service 10AM on August 25th at the Church of Atonement, Quogue, Long Island.       
 PTASHEK-Bertha. Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Bertha Ptashek, beloved mother of Sheila Adelberg. We extend our deepest condolences to Sheila and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 SIERRA-Natalia Maria, 92, a long time resident of Brooklyn, passed away in San Diego, February 3, 2001. She is survived by her daughter Elisa Gutierrez of San Diego, one brother Luis Diaz of Florida and one grandson, Miguel Gutierrez of San Diego. Funeral mass Thursday, February 8, 2001, St
 ALBERT-Lily. Of Great Neck, NY, on February 8th at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Bernard H. Albert. Cherished and devoted mother of Sondra, Sigmund, Edward (Brenda). In lieu of flowers, donations to the Women's American ORT. Services Sunday, February 11, 12:00 PM at Riverside Nass
 BROUDY-Regina. Our Kentucky belle and classy lady who sparkled with wit and salty humor, 93, of the Hebrew Home in Riverdale, NY, and formerly of North Miami, FL, and the Bronx, NY, on February 8, 2001. She was loved, admired and respected for her thoughtfulness and vivid stories of growing
 CZUKOR-Alice C. February 1, 2001 at age 85. Beloved wife of John C., adored mother of Lester J. She is also survived by a sister, Valeria and a brother Ernest both of Budapest, Hungary. A memorial service is to be held at 11AM on Sunday, February 11, 2001 at University Heights Presbyterian 
 EISENBERG-Arlene. Congregation Ansche Chesed mourns the loss of our beloved friend, past president and illustrious member, Arlene Eisenberg. She was a vital force in the life and revitalization of our community, and her wisdom and generosity of spirit directly touched so many of us. A gener
 GORDON-Florence. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Friedman, Murray Gordon and devoted companion of the late Allan Gitter. Devoted mother of Frederick and Susan Friedman, Neil and Dana Bieff, Anita and Harvey Friedman. Adored grandmother of Stephanie and Andrea Friedman, Gwyn and Atticus Bie
 GRUENSTEIN-Therese (Teddy) Orkin. A shining reflection of God's love, your spirit forever lives on in those who loved you so dearly and whom you so dearly loved. Susi, John, Michael, Carolyn, Cassie, Alex and Elizabeth. Reposing Sat. evening 6 to 9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chape
 JOSEPHSON-Esther (Essie). On January 31, 2001. Beloved mother of Robert, Terry and Stephen. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Howard, Jonathan, Amy, Matthew, David and Michael, and cherished great-grandmother of Elijah. Born November 2, 1915. Services were held on February 2 at Schwartz Bros
 BEYER-Martha Carroll Rakow. July 12, 1890-February 9, 1951. Remembered for her love and generosity.       
 Pauline Koner, one of the eclectic individualists of contemporary American dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. A choreographer noted for powerful solos, Miss Koner was also a principal dancer with the José Limón Dance Company, a leading modern-dance troupe 
 Arlene Eisenberg, who with her two daughters wrote ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' which became known as the pregnancy bible, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. From gir
 GARVEY-Dr. Megan. On February 8, 2001, Dr. Megan Garvey of Mt. Kisco, New York went to her reward in heaven. She is survived by her brother and sister-in-law, Jack and Mary Ann Garvey of Dallas, Texas, and her sister Mary Lane of Champaign, Illinois. Megan also loved and was very much loved
 KIRSCH-Bertha. At age 91, died peacefully on February 7, 2001. Beloved wife for 60 years of the late Morris Kirsch. Dearest mother of Lee and Flo Kirsch, David and Paula Kirsch and Sara (Dixie) Lampert and sister of Samuel I. Cohen and the late Harry and Cecile Cohen. Loved Nanna of Robin, 
 KONER-Pauline. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Pauline Koner, dance faculty member from 1986 to 1999. She was an extraordinarily powerful performer who could hold the stage with both bold movement and subtle gesture. Although her stage career ended many years ago, she generously 
 MEYERS-Corinne. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted longtime member Corinne Meyers. Corinne and her beloved late husband, Archie, had been members of Rodeph Sholom for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her daughters, Sherri and Carole, and all their d
 STRELSIN-Dorothy Strelsin. Died at her California home on February 8th. She was 87. A philanthropist and very good friend, she is mourned by her nephew Walter Ehmer of Atlanta and his family and her many friends in this country and in Europe.       
 Fuki Kushida, a pioneer Japanese campaigner for women's rights, a peace activist and an opponent of nuclear weapons, died at her home in Tokyo on Monday, a family announcement said. She was 101. In February last year, at the age of 1OO, Ms. Kushida made headlines from her wheelchair
 DREIER-Laura. 84. Of Phoenix. Formerly of New York City. Passed away on February 7, 2001 at home. She was a beloved and devoted wife to Fred, her husband of 57 years. Laura was deeply loved and will be missed by her husband, daughter Jill and son-inlaw Bert Alanko. Her dear son Jonathan pas
 EISENBERG-Arlene. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Arlene Eisenberg, a cherished friend who inspired the community's efforts to revitalize Jewish life on the Upper West Side. As a respected author, her renowned series of child-reari
 GOLD-Ruth (nee Kastenbaum). Died on February 3 in Forest Hills. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Seth (Cindy), Leon and Toni (Nick) Gordon. Loving grandmother of Daniel and Michael Gordon and Perel Pnina, Moshe and Rassie Gold. Dear sister of Jack and Marvin. Devoted aunt.
 HEYMAN-Lisa S. Beloved daughter of Helen and Alan Goodfield; adored sister of Suzanne Lynn, Nancy and Jeff Davis, and Karen. Loving aunt of Casey, Elena and Gaylen; cherished niece of Sheila Fischer; dear cousin of Susan Fischer-Diaz, Jill, Gary and Mariel Conway and Nico Diaz. Devoted rela
 KANNER-Selma. Born October 5, 1910 passed away on the evening of February 9, 2001 in NYC. Dearest Selma, wife of the late Louis Kanner, brought joy and kindness to all of her friends and family. She will be lovingly remembered by her brothers Harold and Arthur; daughter Rita Diane Skyler; s
 KIRSCH-Bertha. At age 91, died peacefully on February 7, 2001. Beloved wife for 60 years of the late Morris Kirsch. Dearest mother of Lee and Flo Kirsch, David and Paula Kirsch and Sara (Dixie) Lampert and sister of Samuel I. Cohen and the late Harry and Cecile Cohen. Loved Nanna of Robin, 
 KOESTER-Katherine Raub Ridley. The Preservation League of New York State notes with great sadness the untimely passing of Katherine Raub Ridley Koester of Binghamton, New York. Counsel at the League for over 13 years, she will be missed by New York State's entire preservation community. Our
 KONER-Pauline. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Pauline Koner, dance faculty member from 1986 to 1999. She was an extraordinarily powerful performer who could hold the stage with both bold movement and subtle gesture. Although her stage career ended many years ago, she generously 
 LYON-Rosalind Kaufmann. Died peacefully at her home on February 3, 2001, at the age of 90, following a long illness. She lived all her life in Manhattan. She was a graduate of the Ethical Culture School and Wellesley College, and was a noted amateur golfer. During WWII, she assisted the war
 MEYERS-Corinne R. (Coree). On February 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Archie Meyers. Dear mother of Sherri Goldsmith and Carole Davidson. Mother-in-law to Howard. Cherished grandmother of Allison. Adored sister of Phyllis Lasser and Morty Ryweck. Her consuming love for her family will be
 REDLEAF-Natalie Lipsky. Died peacefully at home in East Quogue, NY, on February 7, 2001, in her 81st year. Wife of the late Gilbert T. Redleaf. Devoted mother of Geoffrey Redleaf (Marjorie), Hilary Stillman (Clark) and Dr. Roger S. Redleaf. Beloved grandmother of Matthew and Daniel Stillman
 REVILLE-Frances Wasservogel. 94, on January 31, 2001. Beloved wife of the late James F. Loving mother of Susan Bernstein, James Jr. and Georgia. Adored grandmother of Dennis, James, Elizabeth, Frances, James and Jeremiah. Great-grandmother. She was a unique and gracious lady of courage, int
 ROOT-Marilyn Parletta. Marilyn Parletta Root, a mental health counselor specializing in the treatment of adolescents and adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse, died at her home on Mercer Island, WA February 6 after a long struggle with ALS. She was 61. In addition to her therapeutic pra
 ROSEN-Shirley (nee Tanenbaum). Died in her home in Fair Lawn, N.J. on February 7, 2001, age 81. Born in Brooklyn, she graduated in 1941 from the Long Island College Hospital School of Nursing. While there she met her husband, Albert P. Rosen, a medical student. They married in 1943. She wor
 STRELSIN-Dorothy. The Officers and Board of Directors of The American Theatre Wing note with sorrow the passing of Dorothy Strelsin, an esteemed member of the Wing's advisory committee and a loyal supporter of Wing activities. Her presence will be sadly missed. Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman 
 WARSHAW-Sadie. Passed away on February 3, 2001, lovingly cared for at Shalom Village in Hamilton, Ontario,in her 94th year. Predeceased by her husband, Monte, beloved mother of Susan Honig, and Stephen Warshaw, fabulous Bubbie to Meredith Honig, Michael and Claire Honig, Anne and John Niela
 Eleanor Lawrence, a flutist who played frequently in chamber music performances and with several orchestras in New York and who is credited with transforming a newsletter into an important resource for flutists, died on Jan. 16 at her home in Manhattan. She was 64. The cause was bra
 Kitty Buck, who with her husband, Otto, ran Cake Masters Bakery, an institution on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that made cakes for Liberace, President Kennedy and Elizabeth Taylor -- and for less famous families' celebrations -- for more than half a century, died on Jan. 9 in Oceanside
 ABRAMS-Sheila London. On February 10. Loving and beautiful wife of Fred. Beloved mother of Philip, Roberta, Gary and Cliff. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Lonn. Daughter of the late Lena and Morris London. Dear sister of Andrew London and the late Helen Heymann. Loving aunt, cousin and d
 MIESES-Charlotte (nee Gutreich), on February 11, 2001, at the age of 80. Born in Berlin, taken to England via Kindertransport in 1939, emigrated to New York in 1947, settled in Washington Heights. Devoted wife of 40 years to her late husband John; inspirational mother to her survivng son, S
 SEGAL-Irene. Devoted mother of Judge Marvin and Carole. Devoted sister of Mary Lawrence. Cherished grandmother of Joel Segal and Lisa and Evan Poczik. Loving great-grandmother of Jenna and Carly. With intelligence, humility, charm and kindness, she always put the well-being of others before
 STEARN-Sara. Age 86, of Monroe Township on Saturday, February 10. She is survived by two sons and daughters-in-law, Richard and Sherry Stearn, and Harvey and Robin Stearn, a sister Esther Binenbaum, four grandchildren Audrey and Barry Kramer, David, Jonathan and Pamela Stearn, and a great-g
 ABRAMS-Sheila. We have lost a dear and treasured friend. A beautiful woman with a constant smile and compassion for everyone. Our hearts go out to Fred, his children and grandchildren. We shall miss her and love her for all time. Phyllis and Herb ABRAMS-Sheila L. The Board of Direct
 BLUESTONE-Zelda. Died Feb. 10, 2001 in Boston, MA. Cherished wife & best friend of Irving for over sixty years. Beloved mother of Barry, Maura and Karen. Precious mother-in-law of Mary Ellen Colten, Robert Greifinger & Bruce Cohen. Adored Nana of Joshua, Rena, Liza & Alex. Zelda was a spark
 CUNEO-Gloria F. (nee Britting). Of Westbury, L.I., formerly of The Bronx, N.Y. on Feburary 11, 2001. Beloved wife of John A. Cuneo, Jr. Devoted mother of Richard A. Cuneo. She was a Co-Founder and General Secretary of the Catholic Traditionalist Movement (CTM). Reposing at Donohue Cecere Fu
 FREEMAN-Sheila. Loving and beautiful wife of Harvey. Beloved mother of Valerie and Eric. Daughter of Frances. Dear sister of Arnold and Anne. Adored aunt and devoted friend to many. She touched everyone with her extraordinary intelligence, kindness, humility and warmth. Her generous and rel
 LERNER-Anita, 53. On February 12th in Los Angeles. Beloved and devoted daughter of Ruth Leaf and Hershey Lerner. Loving sister of Karen Casino. Dear aunt of Mia Casino, Becky Waitz and Alexis Simone Casino. She will be lovingly remembered by many cherished friends. Memorial service to be an
 LEVY-Phyllis Sari. A wonderful woman in all respects. Peaceful now, after a long illness. Survived by her adored mother, Ruth Jaffe, her dear sister, Susan, and brother-in-law, Paul. Services private. LEVY-Phyllis Sari. As it must to all, death came on Monday to our dear cousin, Phy
 SCHLENGER-Ruth (nee Warner), 102. Of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of South Orange and East Orange, NJ. Died on February 11, 2001, after a long, beautiful life. Beloved wife of the late Herman Schlenger for 67 years. Devoted mother of Donald, Judith Heyman and Marjorie Weil and dear mother-in-la
 SOBEL-Pearl. On February 12, 2001, after a long and blessed life, Pearl Orloff Sobel passed away peacefully after a brief illness. She is survived by her husband of sixty-two years, Gerson, her children, James, Judith, and Thomas, and her grandchildren, Paul, Eric, Lisa, David, and Daniel. 
 ZICKERMAN-Ruth B. Died February 9, 2001, age 95. Widow of Dr. Julius Zickerman. Retired NYC schoolteacher of 40 years. Resident of North Miami Beach, Fla. since the 1970's. She will be remembered with love by her sons Stuart and Martin of Hollis, N.Y. and her many friends. She was a tireles
 A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 82. The cause was pancreatic cancer. Ms. Nelson was linked to the company's founder, Madame C. J. 
 CUNEO-Gloria. The Catholic Traditionalist Movement (CTM) mourns the passing into Heaven of its co-founder and, for the past thirty-seven years, General Secretary. While traditionalist Catholics the world over will gratefully remember her behind-the-scenes self-effacing dignity and grace tha
 GROHS-Polly Hart. Of Sarasota Fla. formerly of Cleveland, Ohio and Scarsdale, NY. Died February 12, 2001 at age 87. Beloved wife of Edward M. for 59 years. Dear sister of Elaine H. Neuburger and the late Louis M. Hart. Remembered with love by her nephew and niece, Frederic Neuburger and Joa
 GWATHMEY-Rosalie died on February 12 at her home in Amagansett, NY, age 92. Wife of the late artist, Robert Gwathmey, cherished and devoted mother of Charles, adored mother-in-law of Bette-Ann, beloved grandmother of Annie and Eric Steel. Artist, photographer, founding member of The Photo L
 LEVY-Phyllis Sari. A wonderful woman in all respects. Peaceful now, after a long illness. Survived by her adored mother, Ruth Jaffe, her dear sister, Susan, and brother-in-law, Paul. Services private. LEVY-Phyllis Sari. As it must to all, death came on Monday to our dear cousin, Phy
 MEYER - Henrietta. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Judy Freudenstein, upon the loss of her sister. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schap
 MITTLEMAN-Bette Joblin. On Sunday, February 11, 2001. Dearest and loving mother of Brad Joblin and mother-in-law of Barbara Joblin. Cherished grandmother of Blake Joblin. Beloved wife of the late Budd Mittleman. Devoted stepmother of Michael and Peter Mittleman and Kate Arens. Former Profes
 ROSENBERG-Ruth J., 89. Of Deerfield Beach. Died February 12, 2001. Wife of the late Edward. Survived by her son Dr. Stephen (Barbara), daughter Barbara Guter (Dr. Marvin), and 4 grandchildren, Jordana, Amanda (Finance Kevin Hall), Lev & Avi. Services will be held Thursday, 1 PM at Riverside
 WISEMAN-Jane Gentry Shelton. 67, in San Francisco on January 28, of cancer. Born in St. Louis, MO; attended The Master's School, Dobbs Ferry, NY and Smith College. Daughter of William Gentry Shelton and granddaughter of Frank Overton Watts. President, First National Bank of St. Louis. Pursu
 Phyllis S. Levy, a prominent Good Housekeeping book editor who in her early publishing career helped discover Ken Kesey, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was ovarian cancer, friends said. A New York native, Ms. Levy graduated from Radcliffe, whe
 BASTIS-Josephine T., on February 12, 2001, of New York, NY, at La Mesa, Calif., while visiting family. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Christos G. Bastis. Loving and supportive mother of Christopher and Jason. Loving grandmother of Christos, Gregory, Nicholas and Matthew. Her strength,
 DOWD-Janet, 75, of Rome, NY. Died February 12, 2001. Her cousins, friends from the acting community and other friends will miss dear Janet and her amazing courage through her long illness.       
 ELIAS-Irving. Our hearts are filled with the deepest sympathy for our dear friend Gale and her family, Charlotte, Shari and Sam. Iggy's passion, love and admiration for friends & family will be cherished & missed forever. With Love, Candice and Steven Stark Andrea and John Stark ELI
 GREENSTEIN-Evelyn. In Burlington, VT. on February 3, 2001. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Carol and Barry Stone, Martin and Gloria Greenstein, and Kenneth Greenstein. Loving grandmother of Jennifer and Teddy Greenstein and Judith Mallory, and great grandmother of Mark and Andrew Mallor
 McDONNELL - Josephine (nee Hughes), on February 12th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Martin J. Devoted mother of Joan McGuire, Kathy Mazzaferro, and Rick McDonnell. Survived by her sister, Elizabeth Seifert, and her brother, Robert Hughes. Also survived by five loving grandchildren. Friends
 NUSYNOWITZ-Judith. Died on February 14, 2001 of Peekskill, New York formerly of the Bronx, New York. Loving mother of Michelle, Nina and Lisa. Beloved grandmother of Jessica & Zachary. She was predeceased by her husband Irving. The funeral service will be at the Clark Associates Funeral Hom
 ROSENBERG-Ruth J., 89, of Deerfield Beach, died February 12, 2001. Wife of the late Edward. Survived by her son Dr. Stephen (Barbara), daughter Barbara Guter (Dr. Marvin), and 4 grandchildren, Jordana, Amanda (fiance Kevin Hall), Lev and Avi. Services will be held today at 1 PM at Riverside
 YAFFE-Beverly. Age 64. February 13, 2001. Beloved wife of Bob. Loving mother of Alan, David and Rick. Loving mother-in-law of Kathie, Claire and Anna. Devoted grandmother of Hillary, April and Levitt. Adored friend who deeply loved life lived to the fullest, and was and will always be an in
 Sonia Arova, a Bulgarian-born ballerina who became an international star and was an early partner of such great male dancers as Erik Bruhn and Rudolf Nureyev, died on Sunday in San Diego. She was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said. Ms. Arova was the balleri
 BASTIS-Josephine. The Cycladic Art Foundation is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and benefactor, Jo Bastis. Her respect for family and community is well known. Her keen knowledge in the field of ancient Greek art, coupled with her generosity, serve as a respected and enviable e
 BENNETT-Beatrice Jean. Only child of Robert Russell Bennett, famous orchestrator and composer, and Louise Bennett, died on February 14th, 2001 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was an artist. She is survived by her son, Kean K. McDonald, and three grandchildren.       
 BEZAHLER-Hannah. Died February 14, 2001 in her 93rd year, in Miami, Florida. Widow of Joel Bezahler, mother of Arline Schwartz and Donald J. Bezahler. Her sonin-law Mac, her daughter-in-law Suzanne, her brother and sister-inlaw George and Mindy, her sister Syd, her grandchildren Ellen, Rene
 BURAK-Bette H. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted member and Vice President, Michael Burak. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 KALENDER-Gloria. On February 15, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Kalender and Monroe Haspel. Adored mother of Candyce Brokaw. Cherished grandmother of Morgan, Ashley and Courtney Brokaw. Dear, devoted sister to Jean and Sid Kaufman, Barbara Schwartz and the late Gene Schwartz. Daught
 LESNOW-Bertha (nee Eisenberg). In her 95th year. Beloved wife of Dr. Jack Lesnow for 69 years. Sister of Ruth Kramer and the late Joseph Eisenberg. Devoted mother of Judith (and Kal) Noselson. Adoring grandmother of Betsy (and Michael) Hockstein, Susie (and Rob) Koltun and the late Adam Nos
 LEVY-Joe. We offer our condolences to beloved wife Corrine Levy, Vice President of LASHA, and to her children and grandchildren. The Officers and Board of Directors of LASHA Marion Crespi, President Reggie Goldberg, Chairman of Bd Michael New, Exec. Dir. Sephardic Home for the Aged, Inc.   
 MATHEZ-Helen Juliette. The Youth Foundation notes with sorrow the passing of Helen Mathez, its former long-time Executive Administrator. She will be missed by her friends at the Foundation and the many students she helped over the years. A. David Russell, Esq., President Mrs. Donald M. Lidd
 MOGAN-Elsie. Our dear and devoted friend and a most unique lady. We will always remember and miss her. With love, Eve, Ron, Laura, Jeff Burnham       
 SAUSELE-George J.H. Of Lynnfield, MA, February 14, wonderful husband of Murielene E. (Lee), father of Lynne Sausele and her sons James and Christopher Reed; Anne Sausele Copp and her husband Murray Copp; Jean Sausele Knodt and her husband Richard Knodt and their son Nicholas Knodt. Sister o
 WILSON-Alice L., a lifelong volunteer, activist, friend to the Arts, and former academic development officer, died on February 5, in Guilford, Conn. at the home of her daughter. Mrs. Wilson was 75. The cause of death was sudden heart failure. Mrs. Wilson's enthusiasm and warm personality at
 YAFFE-Beverly. Age 64. February 13, 2001. Beloved wife of Bob. Loving mother of Alan, David and Rick. Loving mother-in-law of Kathie, Claire and Anna. Devoted grandmother of Hillary, April and Levitt. Adored friend who deeply loved life lived to the fullest, and was and will always be an in
 Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., s
 BREWSTER-Marion D. On February 15, 2001 at age 100. Beloved wife of the late Warren. Mother of Isabel and Vance Van Dine, Thomas S. and Mary, Samuel D. and Eliza and Richard W. and Barbara Brewster. Grandmother of Sylvia and Dale Brewster-O'Connor, Scott, Maxwell, Sophia, Darrah Brewster an
 BURAK-Bette. The Partners of Rosenman & Colin LLP express their sincere condolences to the family and friends of Bette Burak, mother of our partner and colleague, H. Paul Burak. May you find comfort in her memory and the love and times she shared with you.       
 COHEN-Irene (nee Liberman). The nephew and niece of the much beloved and admired Irene Cohen, Barnet and Phyllis Liberman and her grand-nieces and nephew, Ava, Zoe, Stella, Leah and Aaron, are saddened by her loss. Her bold and joyful spirit touched and changed everyone's life, and she was 
 GOLDENBERG-Laura. Beloved mother of Michael, Gene and Hazzan Devin Goldenberg, Karen Shapiro and Idy Lanier. Cherished grandmother of Cara, Alex, David, Emily, Seth and Joshua Goldenberg, Elena and Max Shapiro, Daniel and Alison Lanier. Dear sister of William Whitehorn. Service Sunday, 1:00
 LEIKIND-Sally, 90. On February 16, 2001, in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Leikind. Loving and devoted mother of Honey and Seymour. Adored mother-in-law to Mike and Simone. Admired sister to Beatrice and brother-in-law, Phil. Cherished and esteemed grandmother of Jeffr
 McCABE-Anna M., 65, on February 14th. Former Insurance Broker. Beloved wife of Terrence M. McCabe, 5 children, 12 grandchildren and 1 great grandchild. A Mass of Christian Burial will be on Monday at 10 AM at St. John's Church in Piermont, NY with Burial to follow at Gethsemane Cemetery in 
 Rose Freedman, the last survivor of the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in which 146 of her co-workers perished in 1911, died on Thursday in her apartment in Beverly Hills, Calif., her daughter said. She was 107. Mrs. Freedman, who at the time of the Manhattan fire was two days shy of 18, 
 BREWSTER-Marion D. On February 15, 2001 at age 100. Beloved wife of the late Warren. Mother of Isabel and Vance Van Dine, Thomas S. and Mary, Samuel D. and Eliza and Richard W. and Barbara Brewster. Grandmother of Sylvia and Dale Brewster-O'Connor, Scott, Maxwell, Sophia, Darrah Brewster an
 BURAK-Bette. AMIT is saddened by the loss of the beloved mother of our dear friend and supporter, Michael Burak, and dear motherin-law of our National Vice President, Lois Burak. A compassionate, caring, astute ''Woman of Valor,'' Betty Burak will be missed by all. Heartfelt condolences to 
 CHEDDIE-Veda Ramona. Beloved wife of Jack Garrett. Daughter of George (deceased) and Kelly Cheddie. Her sisters Elizabeth and Geeta and her brother Keith, and her brothers-in-law Gregor Wiget and John Musall will always deeply mourn the passing of our bright flame. She will be remembered fo
 ELLIN-Jeanne Michael. Wife of the late, internationally renowned author, Stanley Ellin, died on Tuesday, February 13. She leaves a daughter, Sue Ellin (Mrs. William L. Jacobsen), and a granddaughter, Tae Ellin. A fine artist, playwright, and community activist, her beauty, charm and brillia
 GEIGER-Ella. Died suddenly in her home in New York, on February 16th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Peggy Ellis and mother-in-law of Mark Ellis. Adoring grandmother of Elizabeth. Dear sister of Helena Spelman and Gisella Eisenstark. Cherished aunt of Agnes Bruce, J
 GLATZER-Dr. Henriette T. Died February 16, 2001. Survived by her son John Z., grandson Ollie, and daughter-in-law Joan Goodman; predeceased by her husband William and her son Stephen. Services at Campbell's, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 11:30 AM, Tuesday, February 20. Donations to charity of you
 GOLDENBERG-Laura. Beloved mother of Michael, Gene and Hazzan Devin Goldenberg, Karen Shapiro and Idy Lanier. Cherished grandmother of Cara, Alex, David, Emily, Seth and Joshua Goldenberg, Elena and Max Shapiro, Daniel and Alison Lanier. Dear sister of William Whitehorn. Service Sunday, 1:00
 HILLER-Mary (nee Fishman). Died on February 2nd at her home in Brooklyn. She was a beloved wife of Abe for 59 years, a loving and cherished mother to Marcia and Alan and a most adored grandmother to Seth and Michele. An accomplished pianist, she was a caring, compassionate wonderful woman, 
 LIFSCHULTZ-Florence. 93, beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Bobbie and Larry Rose, Lowell and Betsy Lifschultz. Cherished grandmother of Lynne Breslin and the late Geoff Brown; Curtis and Linda Breslin; Dr. Ken and Debbie Breslin; Laurie and Davy Thomas; Carey Lifschultz and
 MARCHETTI-Blanche. Founder of Food For Thought, one of the earliest natural food stores in Westchester County, died at home on February 13th 2001 after a long illness. She was 82. Born in the Bronx, Mrs. Marchetti graduated from Evander Childs High School in 1937 and married Vincent Marchet
 McCABE-Anna M., 65, on February 14th. Former Insurance Broker. Beloved wife of Terrence M. McCabe, 5 children, 12 grandchildren and 1 great grandchild. A Mass of Christian Burial will be on Monday at 10 AM at St. John's Church in Piermont, NY with Burial to follow at Gethsemane Cemetery in 
 NORMAN-Gail. Died on February 5, 2001 in Key Largo, FL. Formerly of Woodstock, VT and Manhattan. Devoted wife of the late advertising executive, Norman B. Norman, founder and CEO of Norman, Craig and Kummel, Inc. Beloved mother to Peter Norman of Arlington, MA., and Susan Norman of Dover, N
 SOBEL-Betty Gruber. In loving memory of my beloved ''Madam,'' queen of 631. Mother of Michael, Stevie and Dava. She nurtured, educated & loved me. She is with me now & forever. Mimi       
 BREWSTER-Marion D. On February 15, 2001 at age 100. Beloved wife of the late Warren. Mother of Isabel and Vance Van Dine, Thomas S. and Mary, Samuel D. and Eliza and Richard W. and Barbara Brewster. Grandmother of Sylvia and Dale Brewster-O'Connor, Scott, Maxwell, Sophia, Darrah Brewster an
 CONWAY-Adelyn C. (nee Rosenfeld). A lady of infinite wisdom and incredible devotion passed quietly on February 16. Beloved mother of Carol Jane Conway Castano. Cherished mother-in-law of Robert Castano. Adored grandmother of Caroline Aaron. Graduate of University of Pennsylvania, Yale Gradu
 GEIGER-Ella. Died suddenly in her home in New York, on February 16th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Peggy Ellis and mother-in-law of Mark Ellis. Adoring grandmother of Elizabeth. Dear sister of Helena Spelman and Gisella Eisenstark. Cherished aunt of Agnes, Bruce, 
 GLATZER-Dr. Henriette T. Died February 16, 2001. Survived by her son John Z., grandson Ollie, and daughter-in-law Joan Goodman; predeceased by her husband William and her son Stephen. Services at Campbell's, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 11:30 AM, Tuesday, February 20. Donations to charity of you
 WEINSTEIN-Anita J. Born February 3, 1908, died early Sunday morning, February 18, 2001, of complications from lung cancer. Ms. Weinstein will always be loved and missed by her brother Walter Freed, grandchildren Wendy and Geoffrey Alexander, great-granddaughter Morgan Alexander, and her dev
 Gail Fisher, who won an Emmy Award in 1970 for her portrayal of Peggy Fair, secretary to the gumshoe played by Mike Connors on the CBS television series ''Mannix,'' died on Dec. 2 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 65. The cause was kidney failure. Ms. Fisher's role on ''
 BERLLY-Patricia. Loving sister of Joel Berlly and sister-in-law of Joan. Aunt of Michael and Lauren Berlly. Beloved niece of Lillian Zucker. Pat fought a long and tough battle right to the end. She will be lovingly remembered by all her family and friends.       
 EPSTEIN - Ethel (Warshavsky). Died peacefully at 91 on February 18, 2001. Beloved wife, for 54 years, of the late Stanley. Dear mother of Anne Epstein Newton. Cherished sister of Lee Greenberg, Ruth Dobkin, and the late Betty Rivkin and Molly Fleischer. Adored aunt of David Rivkin, Cynthia 
 GEIGER-Ella. Died suddenly in her home in New York, on February 16th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Peggy Ellis and mother-in-law of Mark Ellis. Adoring grandmother of Elizabeth. Dear sister of Helena Spelman and Gisella Eisenstark. Cherished aunt of Agnes, Bruce, 
 IACOVETTA-Assunta. Age 90. On February 18th, 2001. Bronxdale. Beloved wife of the late Alberto Iacovetta. Mother of Vincent (Yvonne) and Gene. The daughter of a naturalized American citizen, Assunta was born in Italy and raised her older son alone during and just after WWII, during which he
 RELLES-Gussie. 93, of Lakewood, NJ, on February 18, 2001. She was the loving wife of the late Nathan. She leaves her beloved children Judith and Stephen Goodhue and Arleen and Richard Danford. She was the devoted grandmother of Tim Wiener (Janice Ono), Jill Berkman (Lawrence), Greg Danford 
 THOMAS-Martha Paula Ruppaner known as Poppi. Died suddenly on February 18, 2001 at her vacation home at Tryall, Jamaica. She was 85. The widow of Joseph A. Thomas, she was the beloved stepmother of Michael M. Thomas of Brooklyn, N.Y. and Jeffrey F. Thomas of San Francisco, CA. She is surviv
 AVRUTIS-Theresa Gwyn Kellar. At home, on February 18, 2001. Widow of Newton. A graduate of Morris H.S. 1930 and NYU 1934. She practiced Clinical Psychology for over 45 years. Daughter of the late Louis Goldberg and Anna Freund. Sister of the late C.M. and I. Harold Kellar. She is survived b
 DAXE-Thelma. At age 88, on Feb. 18th, 2001, in Miami. Longtime resident of Great Neck, New York. Beloved wife of the late Arnold, adored mother of Brenda Feldman, Arnold Jr., and Chester. Cherished grandmother of Peter, Steven, Jeffrey, and Shelly. Dear sister of Murray Laurence. Private me
 DRUCKMAN-Evelyn, age 61, died on February 17. She is mourned by her nephew Daniel Druckman, her niece Karen Jeanneret and her sister-in-law Muriel Topaz Druckman.       
 GELLIS-Marlene. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Monday, February 19, 200l. She will be missed. Services will be held Wednesday, February 21, at 1:30 PM at Gutterman-Warheit Memorial Chapel, 7240 North F
 GREENEBAUM-Betty. Scarsdale, NY resident, died February 16. Dearest mother of Madeline Paulson (Chad) and beloved grandmother of J.T. Funeral Friday, 12:30PM, Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY. Contributions to Betty Greenebaum Fund at the Scarsdale Historical Soc
 HALPERIN-Anne. Widow of Alvin M. Halperin. Loving mother of Marsha Epstein of Newtonville, Mass., Richard E. Halperin of Harrison, NY and mother-in-law of Lucy Landesman Halperin and Martin Epstein. Fond sister of Lillian Marsh, Murray Beecher. Cherished grandmother of Peter and Robert Epst
 ISENBERG-Frieda (nee Epstein). Of Forest Hills, NY on February 19, 2001. Beloved wife of Morris for over 55 years, devoted mother of Edward, Elliott and Howard, loving grandmother of Karen Clements and Paula Zuckerman, great-grandmother of Lauren and Brian Clements. She served as a teacher 
 LAWLER-Joyce DeVries, on February 16, 2001. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Loving mother of Anna. Sadly missed by the Eccarius family of Abbington, PA and the DeVries family of the Netherlands. She was a home care physical therapist in the Brooklyn and Pocono areas. Relatives and friends are inv
 LIDSKIN-Diane. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the tragic passing of Diane Lidskin, beloved daughter of Roland and Sylvia Schaefer. Roland is an Honorary Vice Chair of ADL's National Commission and a member of the ADL Florida Regional Board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Roland a
 MARBACH-Maria. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 MONKMEYER-Hilde Ruth. On February 19, 2001 at age 94. Bold and independent beyond compare. Beloved wife of the late Paul Monkmeyer. Loving mother of Peter Monkmeyer and Peggy Mastroianni. Devoted grandmother of Susan, Jim, Bob, Christina and Antonio and great-grandmother of four. After earn
 PIEL-Carolyn Forman. Died while snorkeling in the waters of Anguilla on February 13, 2001, at the age of 82. Professor emeritus of pediatric nephrology at the University of California at San Francisco, Dr. Piel, who published extensively in her field, was also a Past President of the Americ
 SILBERMAN-Else (nee Kleemann). Born in Wuerzburg, Germany. Came with her husband Curt Silberman to the United States in 1938 as victims of the Hitler regime. In her youth she studied medicine, a study which she was forced to discontinue due to the Nazi Laws. In the United States she was act
 THOMAS-Martha Paula Ruppaner known as Poppi. Died suddenly on February 18, 2001 at her vacation home at Tryall, Jamaica. She was 85. The widow of Joseph A. Thomas, she was the beloved stepmother of Michael M. Thomas of Brooklyn, N.Y. and Jeffrey F. Thomas of San Francisco, CA. She is surviv
 WEILD-Elizabeth M., age 105, on February 20, 2001 in Pelham, NY. Widow of David Jr. Mother of David III, Louise Zimmerman and the late Elizabeth Wright. Loving mother-in-law of Drue and Arthur. Grandmother of William R., and David James Wright; David IV, G. Robley, M. James and Kim Weild; A
 Dr. Donella Hager Meadows, an author, educator and advocate for the environment, died Tuesday at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. She was 59 and lived in Hartland Four Corners, N.H. The cause was bacterial meningitis, said Prof. Jack E. Shepherd Jr., a friend and 
 AVRUTIS-Theresa Gwyn Kellar. At home, on February 18, 2001. Widow of Newton. A graduate of Morris H.S. 1930 and NYU 1934. She practiced Clinical Psychology for over 45 years. Daughter of the late Louis Goldberg and Anna Freund. Sister of the late C.M. and I. Harold Kellar. She is survived b
 JACOBS-Sally Z. On February 8, 2001 in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late David, loving mother of Barbara (Ed) Gross, Ivan, and Glenn. Devoted grandmother of Scott, Cindy-jo, Ronne, Robert, Karann, and Michael. Dear sister of Jean (Murray) Kirschenbaum and Diane Hilliard. Cherished gre
 LEVINE-Leonard. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center extend heartfelt condolences to our dear friend and colleague, Naomi Levine, at the loss of her husband Leonard. Robert M. Glickman, MD, Dean NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President, NYU Hospitals Center    
 LIDSKIN-Diane. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the tragic passing of Diane Lidskin, beloved daughter of Rowland and Sylvia Schaefer. Rowland is an Honorary Vice Chair of ADL's National Commission and a member of the ADL Florida Regional Board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Rowlan
 MEYER-Eva H. Beloved wife of Manfred. Loving mother of David and Paulette. Grandmother of Rachel and sister of Benjamin Hoffman of Tel Aviv. Service Thursday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. May her memory be a blessing. MEYER-Eva H. The American Frien
 PEARL-Bella. Survived by her loving daughters Fern Pearl and Shereen Posner. cherished grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Funeral services Thursday, 12:45PM at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, N.Y.       
 WEILD-Elizabeth M., age 105, on February 20, 2001 in Pelham, NY. Widow of David Jr. Mother of David III, Louise Zimmerman and the late Elizabeth Wright. Loving mother-in-law of Drue and Arthur. Grandmother of William R., and David James Wright; David IV, G. Robley, M. James and Kim Weild; A
 Emily Vermeule, an emeritus professor of classical philology and archaeology at Harvard University who started her career with the discovery of an ancient Mycenaean tomb and went on to conduct excavations in Greece, Turkey, Libya and Cyprus, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. Sh
 Mfon Essien, a Nigerian-born American photographer, died on Feb. 13 in New York. She was 34. The cause was breast cancer, according to her publicist and friend, Tonya Miller. Ms. Essien, whose full name is Mmekutmfon, was born in the village of Ikot Ekpene in Nigeria and cam
 BERLLY-Patricia. Dear Joel, Joan, Lillian, Michael and Lauren, we share your grief and will always remember with great respect and admiration Pat's valiant struggle against impossible odds. Her sense of humor and her daily cheerful emails will be missed. Susan and Fred Friedman       
 JACOBSON-Lois Toby. Passed away February 20, 2001. Loving mother of Jacob and Benjamin. Devoted sister and daughter. Her spirit and love will always be with us. The Zaro Family       
 KAUFMAN-Helen R. On February 21, 2001 at age 84. Beloved wife of the late Judge Irving R. Kaufman. Loving mother of James M. and the late Robert H. and Richard K. Kaufman. Also survived by grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Ave. at 87 St., Frid
 NAYMAN-Chaya. We have lost a true Eishes Chayil of the generation who suffered the tremendous travails and sacrifices of all time. It is with deep sadness that we extend our sincerest condolences to Fayge Schwartz on the passing of her beloved mother. As a Silver Founder of the Medical Cent
 PRICE-Dorothy Hurt. Died on February 22nd after a long illness. She was a resident of Palm Beach, Southampton and New York City. Her three husbands, Malcolm Meacham, Edgar Eyre and Hickman Price, Jr. all predeceased her. She drove an ambulance in New York as a volunteer during World War II,
 BRANDMAN-Natalie Damask, 82, a former Manhattan resident died February 18, 2001 in Reno, Nevada. She was the wife of Arthur Brandman who died in 1997. She is survived by two sons, Richard Damask and Kenneth Damask, daughter-in-law Susan Damask, and two sisters, Lillian Baskin and Shirley Sp
 DORSEN-Randi. A young lady who fought so very hard for so very long and whose body just couldn't keep up with her spirit. May she finally achieve the peace and rest that was denied her for so very long. She will be missed, she will be loved. Maxine, Tad, Jerry Belson       
 GRANICK-Ethel. Deceased February 19th, 2001 at her home in East Hill Woods, Southbury, CT. Fierce and independent to her last breath. For memorial information, call: 203-789-1879 or E-mail: pbloom@connix.com       
 JAFFA-Mae. A women of valor. Her strength, dignity, wisdom and lovingkindness will be greatly missed. Beloved wife of the late Ned E. Jaffa. Adored mother of Faith Jaffa Goldstein and Marcy Low. Devoted mother-in-law of Dr. J. Manfred Low. Loving sister of Ethel Wershaw and sister-inlaw of 
 LEAHY-Dorothy M., 83, of West Palm Beach, Fla., passed away February 4, 2001. She was an interior decorator who graduated from Pratt University in Brooklyn, NY. She attended Bethesda by the Sea Episcopal Church in Palm Beach, Fla. Graveside services will be held Tuesday, February 27, 1 PM, 
 Miné Okubo, a Japanese-American artist who recorded in 2,000 drawings and a book what she saw and felt as an internee in American detention camps for Japanese and Japanese-Americans during World War II, died on Feb. 10 in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Miss Okubo, wh
 AVRUTIS-Theresa Gwyn Kellar. At home, on February 18, 2001. Widow of Newton. A graduate of Morris H.S. 1930 and NYU 1934. She practiced Clinical Psychology for over 45 years. Daughter of the late Louis Goldberg and Anna Freund. Sister of the late C.M. and I. Harold Kellar. She is survived b
 CLAY-Harriet McLean. Of East Hampton, New York, passed away at her home on February 13, 2001 after a long battle with cancer. Piddy, as she was known, was born in New York City on February 21, 1928, to Major Henry C. McLean, of Newburgh, N.Y., and Harriet Peckham McLean, of Albany, N.Y. Pid
 DORSEN-Randi Beth. On February 23, 2001. Beloved daughter of Audrey and Max. Devoted and loving sister of Marc, David and sister-in-law of Ellen. Dear aunt of Jennifer, Justin, Zachary, Amy and Carly. May her fighting spirit continue to be an inspiration for all whose lives she touched. She
 FRIED-Marian. February 21, 2001. Exceptional and adored wife of Irving. Mother of Andrew, Ellenand Alex Helfand. Beloved sister of Helen and Louis Blau and sisterin-law of Betty and Zeke Brenner. Darling daughter of Ruth and the late Arthur Silverberg. Cherished grandmother of Emma and Benj
 FRIEDMAN-Eva. Of Forest Hills, NY. On February 23, 2001. Beloved widow after 52 years of marriage to Lou. Devoted mother to Adele Vivien Friedman Newman and cherished mother-in-law of Robert Newman. Loving sister of Yetta Banks and sister-in-law to Sol Banks, aunt and great-aunt to numerous
 GUITON-Jacqueline. Age 51, of Bryn Mawr, PA, on Tuesday, February 20, 2001. Survived by her parents Jacques and Margaret Otis Guiton, her sister Nicolette, brother John, sister-in-law Linda and niece Sophie. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 HARRIS-Radie. The officers and Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing note with sorrow the passing of Radie Harris who devoted much of her life to the Wing's activities. She was a board member emeritus. Her presence will long be remembered. Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman of the Board
 HIMMELL-Vivian Flaks. Age 96, on February 23, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Samuel S. Himmell and devoted mother of Joanne Dann and Barbara Springer; son-in-law Nathaniel Springer, sister Evelyn Kossin, brother-in-law Benjamin Kaplan, grandchildren Jonathan Dann, Patty Dann, Priscilla Dann
 KELIHER-Agathe S. Died in Meadowbrook, Pennsylvania on February 18 at the age of 102. Born in Kansas City, MO in 1898, she lived 95 years in Brooklyn, N.Y. before moving to Meadowbrook. Widow of Francis T. Keliher. She is survived by a daughter, Agathe Crouter of Philadelphia and a son, Fra
 MEYER-Eva. Young Israel of the West Side mourns the passing of Mrs. Eva Meyer, a distinguished founding member. She was the daughter of the late renowned Rabbi Dr. Jacob Hoffman and a descendant of Torah giants. We extend condolences to her husband Manfred and son David. May the Comforter o
 MILLER-Anita. 83, of Holmdel, on February 23, 2001. Born in NYC. Longtime resident of Brooklyn. A 1949 Hunter College Graduate. She was a Medical Librarian for the State University of NY Downstate Medical Center. Services private. For info contact the Holmdel Funeral Home, 26 South Holmdel 
 PAYSON-Rosalind S. Of Southport, CT, died February 21, 2001. She was a residential real estate agent with Nicholas H. Fingelly Real Estate. She is survived by her companion, Charles (Bud) Hamilton Sanford, three sons, Laurence, Blakeney and Eliot Payson, and five grandsons. A Memorial servi
 PRICE-Dorothy Hurt. Died on February 22nd after a long illness. She was a resident of Palm Beach, Southampton and New York City. Her three husbands, Malcolm Meacham, Edgar Eyre and Hickman Price, Jr. all predeceased her. She drove an ambulance in New York as a volunteer during World War II,
 SYMONS-Marjorie, age 92, on February 21. Beloved mother of Lawrence, Richard and Suzanne. Loving grandmother of Felicia, Steven, Kevin, Dana, Jill, Meredith and Matthew, and great-grandmother of Jordan, Aaron, Gaby, Raquel and Brianna. She will be missed by all.       
 THOMAS-Martha (Poppi). It is with deep sorrow that the Board of Trustees and staff of The Animal Medical Center mark the passing of our devoted Chairman Emerita, Mrs. Joseph A. (Poppi) Thomas. Mrs. Thomas' passionate belief in the important role of animals in our lives led to her tireless w
 ULLMAN-Janet S. My wife, mother of our children, Susan, William & Lucy; mother-in-law to Kathy & to Jim; grandmother of Annalese, Leif, Jessica & Noah. She was loved and cherished by all who knew her. A very special person. Montague Ullman       
 BURNS-Mary Irene. Formerly of Sands Point, NY, on February 24, 2001, at her daughter's home in Short Hills, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late John A. Burns. Devoted mother of William, Rene Marron, Peg Mazen and the late John A. Burns Jr. Also survived by ten grandchildren and thirteen gr
 COLEMAN-Nancy Jane. 62, fifth generation Houstonian, passed away after a courageous and dignified battle with cancer in her home on Saturday, February 24, 2001, surrounded by her family and loved ones. Nancy was a graduate of Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut, and Hollins Coll
 FREEDMAN-Harriette. On February 25, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving Freedman who was a trustee and counsel to Park East Synagogue. Loving aunt to Arthur, Ellen, Sandford, Estelle, Irwin, Dorothy, Josephine, Nat, Marilyn, Rosalie and the late Lois. Great aunt to her many nieces and nep
 HANFLING-Betty (nee Shapiro), 93, of Hallandale Beach, FL, passed away February 22, 2001. Survived by her very loving children: Rosalyn (Robert) Papell, Neal Hanfling, and Carl (Carol) Hanfling; 6 grandchildren; 4 greatgrandchildren. Services in FL.       
 HELLER-Anne Cohen. Died Saturday, February 24, 2001, at home in Manhattan. She was 81. A physician known professionaly as Dr. Anne C. Carter, she was a lifelong resident of the city and Bedford, NY, and was predeceased by her husband, William B. Heller. She is survived by her children, Jame
 HIMMELL-Vivian Flaks. Age 96, on February 23, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Samuel S. Himmell and devoted mother of Joanne Dann and Barbara Springer; son-in-law Nathaniel Springer, sister Evelyn Kossin, brother-in-law Benjamin Kaplan, grandchildren Jonathan Dann, Patty Dann, Priscilla Dann
 MARAVEL-Evelyn. On February 25, 2001. She was 87. Beloved sister of James Maravel. Loving aunt of Alexis DiGrazia, Patricia Maravel, Peter Christie, Ted Christie, Elaine Marcus, George Nicholas and Stephanie Kuzymkowski. Also survived by many great-nieces and nephews. Family will receive fr
 NICHAMOFF - Theresa (Uroff). Cherished wife of Sidney. Adored and devoted mother of Alan and Phyllis, and mother-in-law of Eli. Loving grandmother of Jonathan, David, Mora and Seth, and greatgrandmother of Jackson. Beloved sister of Sylvia and Norman. Passed away on Saturday, February 24, 2
 RISEBERG-Leslie A. Of Boston, MA, on Thursday, February 22. Beloved husband of Marilyn (Oxman) Riseberg. Devoted father of Jocelyn C. Scheirer and her husband Eric D. of Somerville, MA, and Andrew K. Riseberg of Brookline, MA. Loving son of Mollie (Linsky) and the late George Riseberg. Cher
 TWOHILL-Sr. Dominic. Of the Sisters of Saint Dominic of Blauvelt, NY, died on February 25, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late Edward and Anna Milgannon Twohill. Survived by her sister Lucille, several nieces and nephews. Wake at St. Dominic Convent, Monday, from 2-8 PM. Mass of Christian Bu
 WAKS-Beatrice Dichter. Of Delray Beach, FL, on February 19, at the age of 89. She is survived by Meyer, her husband of 65 years; sisters Pauline Tolmage and Muriel Jaffe; sons David and Leonard; and grandchildren Mark Waks, Ruth Bennett, Allison Teger, Michael Teger, and Sjoma Fadeev. A lon
 WARNER-Marion. In Branford, CT, February 22, 2001. Wife of the late MacDonald S. Warner. Sister of Gertrude Ahrens Dyson and Eunice Pollard. Sister-in-law of Robert S. Warner. Aunt of many nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by a brother, Richard Henry Ahrens Jr. She worked for the OSS 
 WHITTINGHAM-Jean. At home in Chappaqua, NY, on February 24, 2001. Beloved wife of Charles A. Devoted mother of Beth, Charles III, Philip and Leigh. Cherished sister of Nancy Brown. Kind and caring mother-in-law of Charles F., Jan, Susan and John. Fun-loving grandmother of Elizabeth, John II
 COLBERT-Ann. Died peacefully on February 25, having recently reached the age of 95; mourned by her family, daughter Vera Chimene, son-in-law Lucian Chimene, grandson Claude Chimene and granddaughter Alyda Brunt and two great grandchildren, Steven and Allegra, all of Texas. A memorial servic
 CONNELLY-Josephine (McGinness). On February 25, 2001 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Harry S. Connelly. Loving sister of the late Arthur F. McGinness. Aunt of Eugenia Singer and stepmother of Patsy Holt, Colleen Moss, Pete, Mike, Denis and Bill Connelly and the late Tommy Connelly. Frie
 FARBER-Ethel. Town and Village Synagogue - Tifereth Israel, mourns the loss of its longtime beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland, Cantor Shayna Smith Carol J. Green, President       
 FRIED-Lila. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 HELLER-Anne Cohen. Died Saturday, February 24, 2001, at home in Manhattan. She was 81. A physician known professionaly as Dr. Anne C. Carter, she was a lifelong resident of the city and Bedford, NY, and was predeceased by her husband, William B. Heller. She is survived by her children, Jame
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Jeanne Dorfman. On February 23 after four years of pulmonary fibrosis. Born in 1924 in Monroe, LA, she had a B.A. (1945) from Oberlin College. She worked for 16 years for the National Foundation as it led the fight against polio. In 1964, she earned a law degree (J.D.) from NY
 HOROWITZ-Zelda (nee Orshansky) of Verona, NJ & Palm Beach, FL. on February 25, 2001. Age 84. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Devoted companion of Fred Kasoff. Devoted mother of Linda & Robert Rosier, No. Caldwell, NJ, and Alan Horowitz, Morristown, NJ. Proud grandmother of Richard and Jeffr
 McGRAIL - KEFELI - Jean. Died peacefully in her sleep February 23, 2001 in her Manhattan apartment. Her sister-in-law, cousins, nephews and nieces and their children survive her. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited to attend visiting hours on Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at John Krt
 PADDOCK-Sandy (nee Carol Sandra Jenkins). Died February 10 at her home in Shoreham. A longtime Glen Cove resident, she was the wife of Bob and the mother of Bruce and Patricia. She was also godmother to thousands of pets, as the proprietor of the Animal Inn, a boarding kennel in Glen Cove. 
 SCHANK-Patricia Ann Smith. Widow of Sherwood Schank, died of natural causes at her home in New York on February 22. Daughter of Anne and Vincent Smith, she is survived by her first cousin Constance Meaney. Mrs. Schank was active for many years on the Boards of Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' 
 SCHLOESSINGER - Elsbeth. On February 25, 2001, at home. A woman of valor. Born in Frankfurt, Germany in 1912 to Alice and Leo Goldschmidt. Her sister, Eva Mela survives. Beloved wife of the late Willi Schloessinger, cherished mother of Fred and Kathleen Schloessinger, and Joan and Mark Ches
 SLACK-Dorothy Schaff. Died on February 25 in her 99th year: beloved wife of the late Meyer H. Slack, dear mother of Leta J. Zoigt and Ellen C. Bayle, loving grandmother, great-grandmother, and sister. We shall miss you sorely. Rest in peace. Funeral private.       
 STONE-Helen S. On February 26, 2001, in her 94th year. Beloved sister of the late Lucille Salomon. Devoted aunt of Ellen S. Gutenstein and Charles S. Salomon. Loving great aunt of Michael, Lisa and Howard. Adored great great aunt of Bess, Jenna, Emily, Laura, Emma, Sam, and Hannah. Services
 WEINTRAUB-Pauline Sherman, 93. Died Feb. 25 at home surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Morris Weintraub, cherished mother of Howard, Vivian, & Leonard. Loving grandmother of Robin, Alexander, Bonnie, Scott, Melissa, Randy, Sherry and Craig. Adoring great grandmother of Brand
 WHITTINGHAM-Jean. At home in Chappaqua, NY, on February 24, 2001. Beloved wife of Charles A. Devoted mother of Beth, Charles III, Philip and Leigh. Cherished sister of Nancy Brown. Kind and caring mother-in-law of Charles F., Jan, Susan and John. Fun-loving grandmother of Elizabeth, John II
 Ann Colbert, the founder of Colbert Artists Management Inc., which manages the careers of classical musicians, died on Sunday. She was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Colbert moved to the United States from Berlin in 1936 and started her management company with her husband, Henry Co
 ADASKO-Beulah. On February 26. Beloved wife for 52 years of Joseph; devoted mother of Lauren and Lee; mother-in-law of Carol and the late Fred Lercher; loving grandmother of Chase, Chelsea, Danny and Chandler. She was a devoted sister, friend and charitable person. Funeral service Wednesday
 COLBERT-Ann. Died peacefully on February 25, having recently reached the age of 95; mourned by her family, daughter Vera Chimene, son-in-law Lucian Chimene, grandson Claude Chimene and granddaughter Alyda Brunt and two great grandchildren, Steven and Allegra, all of Texas. A memorial servic
 CONNELLY-Josephine (McGinness). On February 25, 2001 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Harry S. Connelly. Loving sister of the late Arthur F. McGinness. Aunt of Eugenia Singer and stepmother of Patsy Holt, Colleen Moss, Pete, Mike, Denis and Bill Connelly and the late Tommy Connelly. Frie
 DAVIDSON-Bobbie (Bertha) on February 26, 2001. A woman of valor. Predeceased by her lifelong love and husband Harry and by their beloved daughter Penny Esther Spiegel. Bobbie blessed the lives of her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, her sister and brothers, and her friends with uncond
 HARRIS-Helen Louise ''Sis.'' Age 80, on February 26, 2001. Loving mother of Bette Ann and Walter, devoted grandmother of Kate and Jenny. Died after a long illness in Mamaroneck, N.Y. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made in Sis's memory to the Graduate Programs in Physical Therapy, M
 HELLER-Anne Cohen. Died Saturday, February 24, 2001, at home in Manhattan. She was 81. A physician known professionaly as Dr. Anne C. Carter, she was a lifelong resident of the city and Bedford, NY, and was predeceased by her husband, William B. Heller. She is survived by her children, Jame
 HOROWITZ-Zelda. Loving, caring, beautiful friend will be greatly missed. Deepest sympathy to her family and to Fred. Selma and Marty Rosen HOROWITZ-Zelda. Our dear caring friend will be deeply missed. Heartfelt sympathy to her cherished family. Shirley and Pat       
 McGRAIL - KEFELI - Jean. Died peacefully in her sleep February 23, 2001 in her Manhattan apartment. Her sister-in-law, cousins, nephews and nieces and their children survive her. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited to attend visiting hours on Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at John Krt
 RIZZI-Benedict. The officers, board memebers and staff of the Institute for Music and Neurologic Function join in extending our deepest sympathy to Maxine Chrein upon the loss of her beloved husband Benedict Rizzi. As a founding member of the Institute's board in 1995 and its chairman until
 ROBBINS-Dorothy. On February 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Allan. Loving mother of Susan (Jacob) and Nancy (Michel). Devoted grandmother of Simon (Elizabeth) and Amy. Great-grandmother of Margaret and William. Service Thursday, 11:30AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. 
 STONE-Helen S. On February 26, 2001, in her 94th year. Beloved sister of the late Lucille Salomon. Devoted aunt of Ellen S. Gutenstein and Charles S. Salomon. Loving great aunt of Michael, Lisa and Howard. Adored great great aunt of Bess, Jenna, Emily, Laura, Emma, Sam, and Hannah. Services
 WAHL-Rebecca (nee Pasteelnick). Beloved mother of Sally Constain. Loving grandmother of Bill and Nicole Constain. Beloved mother-in-law of Edward Constain. Loved her family, music and life. Services Thursday 12noon at ''Parkside'' Chapel, Queens Blvd & 66 Ave, Forest Hills.       
 TENBRINCK-Margaret S., M.D., F.A.A.P., Feb 28, 1911-Nov 16, 1998. The family of Dr. Tenbrinck wishes to pay loving tribute to her on the occasion of what would have been her 90th birthday. A graduate of Barnard with her M.S. in Chemistry and M.D. from New York University, and a Board Certif
 Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Lawry founded both the National Mult
