 Elizabeth Tweedy Streibert, associate director of an international exhibition program at the Museum of Modern Art for 19 years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, a museum official said. Ms. Streiber
 BROWN-Lillian. Age 93, on May 30 in Miami Beach, FL. Co-founder and co-owner with her beloved husband Charles (deceased) of Brown's Hotel, Loch Sheldrake, NY. Loving mother of Lonnie Rowley of West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved sister of Jean Harrison of Clifton, New Jersey. Devoted grandmother o
 GINSBURG-Sara. Died at home in New York City on May 24, 1997. Retired Assistant Professor in the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. Served there from 1954 until 1985 in the Departments of Biochemistry and Neurology. Born in St. Petersburg, Russia in 1908. Sister of the 
 GOODMAN-Gertrude M., of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Miami and Riverdale, NY, passed away May 29, 1997. She was the beloved wife of the late Alexander E. Goodman, loving mother of Harriet S. (Alvin) Benjamin and Henry (Joan) Goodman, cherished grandmother of Andrew and Bruce Benjamin, Lisa B
 ROOS-Julie Ann. Beloved daughter of Roberta and Edwin, loving sister to Andrew and Peter, sisterin-law to Susan and Elisabeth, devoted aunt to Alexander, MacAlister Ethan, Kaile and Emma. Cherished friend of many around the world. Passed away from us to a better place on Tuesday, May 27, 19
 SITNICK-Rita. Adored wife of Vin Gizzi; cherished by brother Stan Sitnick of Portland, OR; mother & father-in-law Laura and Vin Gizzi, Sr.; sisters and brothers-in-law Leona, Peggy, Norka, Martin and Barry; and nieces Emily, Melia, Ariella and Sofia. Memorial Service will be held Wednesday,
 Rose Will Monroe, an employee of an aircraft factory who, through a chance meeting with a Hollywood star, became the celebrated ''Rosie the Riveter'' in World War II, died on Saturday in Clarksville, Ind. She was 77, and a resident of Clarksville. Mrs. Monroe's remaining kidney bega
 Dr. Jenny R. Bramley, the first woman to receive a doctorate in physics in the United States, died on May 26 at the Manor Care Health Facility in Lancaster, Pa., where she was a resident. She was 87. Dr. Bramley, born Jenny Rosenthal in Moscow, earned a bachelor's degree at 16 at th
 Mary Opal Wolanin, a nurse who did research on long-term care for the elderly, died on May 22 at Methodist Hospital in San Antonio. She was 86 and lived in San Antonio. The cause was respiratory failure, said her brother, Calvin Borror of Wichita, Kan. Ms. Wolanin, who was i
 LEVINE-Goldie. May 30, 1997. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Goldie, wife of our esteeemd member Louis, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board Of Governors Buddy Martin President LEVINE - G
 PEARLMAN-Celia. Beloved wife of the late Meyer. Devoted mother of Jack. Cherished grandmother of Sheri and Ted. Loving greatgrandmother of Meryl, Lindsay, Kara, Sophie, Alex and Jason. PEARLMAN-Celia. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Cel
 SPILLANE-Laura Elizabeth Carmody, of Charlotte, North Carolina, formerly of Freeport and Cold Spring Hills, Long Island, on May 27, 1997. Mrs. Spillane is survived by her children, Claire Wilfert and Vivian McCarthy, both of Charlotte, Linda Steinmetz of Abbeville, SC, and John Spillane of 
 Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious, a Chicago lawyer who held high posts in the Nixon and Bush Administrations, was active in the civil rights movement and was on the boards of major corporations, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago. She was 75. The cause of death was breast cancer, fam
 CINNAMON-Anne of Hallandale Fl. formerly of Asbury Park, New Jersey passed away June 1, 1997. She was predeceased by her loving husband Morris Cinnamon Graveside Services Thursday, June 5 11 A.M. at Beth El Cemetery Glendale, NY.       
 FLORY-Lenore (Kalmus). My beloved friend and mentor. May you now be at peace after your long and courageous struggle. You will be in our hearts forever, a shining light of warmth, wisdom, friendship and love. Our heartfelt condolences to David, Miranda, Gillian, Cynthia and all of us whose 
 GOLD-Anne T. On May 30, 1997, Stamford Hospital. Wife Dr. Leonard Gold, Stamford. Mother of Dr. Marji Gold and Judy Gold. Motherin-law of Dr. Bob Morrow. Grandmother of Daniel, Lesa, Eric and Caryn and sister of Faye Flax. Visiting hours 4-7pm on June 4, 1997 at her home, 35 Brodwood Drive,
 KALMUS-Lenore (Flory) Born NY October 24, 1936, died June 2, 1997 after a valiant fight with cancer. Lenore received her B.A. from Wellesley in 1957, and her LL.B career from New York University in 1962. She began her law career in government, and entered private practice in 1966 with the l
 KULAK-Barnett. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Anne Kulak on the loss of her husband, Barnett Kulak. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 ORLOWSKY-Irene Henry, of Garrison, NY, on May 25. Beloved wife of Eli; loving mother of Douglas and Philip, and adoring grandmother of four. Cremated May 27. Donations in her memory may be made to the Fresh Air Fund.       
 PIERCE-Pauline (Polly). Died at her home on June 1, 1997. Wellknown social worker in New York City, loved and will be missed by many. No services will be held.       
 ROOS-Julie Ann. Beloved daughter of Roberta and Edwin, loving sister to Andrew and Peter, sisterin law to Susan and Elizabeth, devoted aunt to Alexander, MacAlister, Ethan, Kaile and Emma. Cherished friend of many around the world. Passed away from us to a better place on Tuesday, May 27, 1
 SAWITS-Ruth Miller on May 31, 1997. One of the original ''Rosie the riveters'', she was a shipfitter of U.S. battleships during World War II and Shop Steward of Women's Shipfitters at Todd Shipyards in Hoboken, N.J. She died of mesothelioma, a cancer associated with asbestos exposure in the
 SCHULHOF-Peggy Hirsch. With great sadness, the National Center for Jewish Healing and the New York Jewish Healing Center join in mourning the death of Peggy Hirsch Schulhof, loving and beloved sister of our President, friend and colleague, Rabbi David Hirsch. To David and the entire family 
 SPILLANE-Laura Elizabeth Carmody, of Charlotte, North Carolina, formerly of Freeport and Cold Spring Hills, Long Island, on May 27, 1997. Mrs. Spillane is survived by her children, Claire Wilfert and Vivian McCarthy, both of Charlotte, Linda Steinmetz of Abbeville, SC, and John Spillane of 
 Helen Hull Jacobs, who played the sturdy foil to Helen Wills Moody's willowy star turn in the rivalry that captivated women's tennis in the 1930's, died Monday night in Easthampton, N.Y., where she had lived for the past four years. She was 88. Ralph Smith, her longtime lawyer, said
 ALBUS-Dolores, 67 of Ridgewood, NJ, died Sunday June 1, 1997. Survived by her husband Kent, two sons Mac and Paul. Memorial services will be held 11:00 AM, Friday, June 6, 1997 at the Westside Presbyterian Church, Ridgewood, NJ. Memorial donations may be made to Crohns and Colotis Foundatio
 FLORY-Lenore. (Kalmus). On June 2 at home. Beloved wife of David, loving mother of Cynthia and her husband Tom Hofmann; Gillian and her fiance Mike Landweber; and Miranda and her husband Rob Capra. Contributions to Crow Canyon Archaeological Center; for information call 1-800422-8975. Memor
 HIRSHBERG - Muriel. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LEVY-Allison Kim. With deep regret, we announce the tragic and untimely death of our beloved daughter, sister and granddaughter. Her life, smile and wisdom touched everyone. She will forever remain in our hearts and always be with us. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett
 ROOS-Julie Ann. Beloved daughter of Roberta and Edwin, loving sister to Andrew and Peter, sisterin law to Susan and Elizabeth, devoted aunt to Alexander, MacAlister, Ethan, Kaile and Emma. Cherished friend of many around the world. Passed away from us to a better place on Tuesday, May 27, 1
 SCHNEIDER-Irien (nee Knapp) parishioner of the Church of the Incarnation on Monday, June 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Mark Lockyer. Dear sister of Cathryn Henderer of Paramus, NJ, Mary Tietgen of Chester, NY and John Knapp of Moonachie, NJ. Much loved aunt and great aunt to 25 nieces a
 SCHULHOF-Peggy Hirsch. The Trustees, and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services extends its deepest sympathy to David Hirsch, our dedicated board member, on the loss of his beloved sister, Peggy. David's love for his sister and devotion to her during her illness were ex
 DOHERTY-Ellen Denise of Manhattan, formerly of Hyde Park, Mass. On June 3. Age 40, suddenly. She is survived by nine brothers and sisters. She was a graduate of Barnard College, Class of '79 and was a Senior Welfare Adviser at the Office of the Manhattan Borough President. Visiting hours wi
 KREFETZ-Jacqueline. (nee Fischer) Died on June 3, 1997, in New York. Born on October 7, 1928 in Antwerp, Belgium. Beloved wife of the late Burton Krefetz. Loving mother of Claudia and Scott and grandmother of Ariel. Also survived by her sister Renee Holden and nephews Stuart and Paul. Funer
 LOWENHERZ-Lillian (nee Kanter). On June 2, 1997 at age 86. Beloved wife of Alfred Lowenherz. Her many relatives and friends will always treasure her lively spirit and loving interest in others. With gusto and generosity, she shared her talents and enthusiasm for art, music, languages and li
 BLONDOWSKA - GREENBERG Sabina, of Brooklyn, NY passed away at 5:00AM on June 4, 1997 peacefully while asleep. She was a Shoa survivor and a heroin of the Warsaw Ghetto. She is survived by her daughter, Anne Toder of New York; her son, Michael Greenberg and his wife Beth of Toronto Canada an
 DOHERTY-Ellen Denise. Her colleagues on the staff of Manhattan Borough President Ruth Messinger are deeply saddened by the passing of a good and loyal friend. As the Borough President's senior advisor on social services, Ellen was a creative organizer and powerful and accomplished writer. W
 HORWITZ-Irma. Passed away June 4 in Israel. Wife of the late Clarence. Mother of Henry and the late Jean Horwitz Fertel. Daughter of the late Samuel C. Feuerstein. Sister of Moses I., Aaron M., Felix E. and Juliet R. Korngold. Shiva in Israel at the home of Henry Horwitz, 29/1 Hashayrot, Ka
 LOVE-Ellamae Davis of Ridgewood, NJ and Boca Raton, FL. on June 2, 1997. Survived by her children Charles M. Cobb, Ellamae M. Cobb, Douglas A., Barbara and Anthony Love. Graveside service was held May 5 in Westfield, NJ.       
 ROBINSON-Nancy Marshall Brereton on Thursday, June 5, 1997 Beloved wife of the late Hamilton Robinson mother of Hamilton Robinson, Jr. of New York, Chalfant David Robinson of Sausalito, CA., Anne Robinson Righter of Boston, Nancy Marshall Robinson Bickel of Chevy Chase, MD., Randle Robinson
 SANET-Freda, age 86, on June 4, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Sanet. Devoted mother of Elaine and Herman Schkolnick and Dr. Robert and Linda Sanet. Cherished grandmother of Caroline and Barry Schkolnick, Joseph Schkolnick, Richard and Lori Schkolnick and Wendy and Randy Solganik. Lo
 SHAPIRO-Shirley. on June 3, 1997. Beloved mother of Paul and Carol, Elaine and Murray. Grandmother of Sari and Alan, Leslie and Joel, Mitchell and Karen, the late Howard. Great grandmother of David, Adam, Robbie, Brian, Andrew and Sam. We will always treasure the wonderful memories her name
 Edythe Meserand, who was one of the first women to become a radio news executive, died on Monday at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y.. She was 88. Ms. Meserand began her career in 1926 in the press department of the National Broadcasting Company, which had been newly formed from W
 DOHERTY-Ellen Denise. The Crime Victims Treatment Center of St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital mourns the sudden death of its first Co-ordinator. Her energy, humor and passion will be greatly missed. Her spirit lives on.       
 HANDLER-Minnie. On June 6, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herbert; loving mother of Arthur, Howard and Mark; adoring grandmother of Karen, Jennifer and Hayley. Service Sunday, 12 noon at The ''Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave. Shiva will be observed Sunday and Monday evenings, 6-9pm at 
 WIESENDANGER-Maria Nussbaumer Bolsey, of Galesville, MD on May 27, 1997. Beloved mother of Carole Bolsey and her husband, Dr. Twig W.I. Johnson, of Galesville, MD. Also survived by her extended family: Margo and Emil Bolsey, of White Plains, NY.; the Walter Nussbaumers, of Zoug, Switzerland
 Denise Browne Hare, who photographed many leading painters and sculptors of the mid-20th century, died on Wednesday at Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn. She was 73 and lived in Amenia, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said her son Morgan Hare. Ms. Hare was born in Manhattan. During
 Mathilda, the Dowager Duchess of Argyll, died Friday at the American Hospital in Paris. She was 70 and had homes in Scotland and Paris. Lord Colin Campbell, her stepson, said she died of a stroke. The Duchess was the widow of Ian Campbell, the 11th Duke of Argyll and the 25t
 BELENKEN-Molly. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved sister of our Honorary National President, Evelyn Schreiber. An extraordinary Woman of Valor, Molly Belenken was exceptional in her selfless dedication to our AMIT children in Israel. She epitomized Torah values and exude
 BLONDOWSKA - GREENBERG Sabina, of Brooklyn, NY passed away at 5:00AM on June 4, 1997 peacefully while asleep. She was a Shoa survivor and a heroine of the Warsaw Ghetto. She is survived by her daughter, Anne Toder of New York; her son, Michael Greenberg and his wife Beth of Toronto Canada a
 CAMINS-Elaine. Of Cliffside Park, NJ, formerly of New City, NY. Devoted mother of Laurie and Jack Kahn, Leslie and Chris Schleimer and Lisa Camins. Beloved sister of Wendy Siegel. Services will be held at 10am at ''The Dix Hills Chapel'' of I.J. Morris, Inc., Long Island. Interment to follo
 FLEISHER-Estelle. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of Estelle Fleisher, the loving and devoted wife of our esteemed board member Seymour Fleisher. Estelle together with Seymour, generously supported Tel Aviv University's Bridge to Peace Scholarship Fund and co-
 GAILZAID-Sylvia, on June 6, 1997. Devoted mother of Vicki. Beloved friend of Sam Denardo. Kind and loving friend to all who knew her. Sylvia wants all who loved her to know that she will continue to live on and return to enjoy many happy and healthy lives in the future. For informatin call 
 HANDLER-Minnie. On June 6, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herbert; loving mother of Arthur, Howard and Mark; adoring grandmother of Karen, Jennifer and Hayley. Service Sunday, 12 noon at The ''Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave. Shiva will be observed Sunday and Monday evenings, 6-9pm at 
 JAFFE-Hilda (Isaacs). With her Martin at last. Died peacefully at home on June 4. A resident of Lawrence LI. Survived by sons Donald (Ann Safer) and Paul (Brenda Glickman), and grandchildren Jill and Mitchell Rudnick, Douglas and Paula Jaffe, Dana Jaffe, Laura and Hugh Brownstone, David Kap
 PASTINA-Michele, 1959-1997. Survived by her daughter, Amber Benson, sister, Karin Singer, mother, Ethlyn Pastina, and former husband, Lawrence Benson.       
 PICA-Marissa Ann, Assistant Director of Critical Care Nursing at The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of breast cancer on June 5, 1997. Born in Waterbury, CT., she was 36 years old. Marissa graduated from Mount St. Mary's College, Newburgh, NY, in May 1983, cum laude, with a B
 SCHOTLAND-Constance Hedden. Age 91. A retired teacher, died June 6, at her home in Chester, NJ. The widow of Dr. Joseph H. Schotland and the daughter of the late Charles Stuart and Amelia Schaeffer Hedden, was born in Newark, NJ. She was graduated from Barringer High School, Dennison Univer
 CAPIOLA-Angelina. Died in Pembroke Pines, FL on June 7, 1997. 96 years old. Wife of the late Patrick and mother of Dolores. Surviving are Dot and Ange Patrissi, Pat and Chet Lustgarten and sister Anna Murray. She leaves eight grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. We'll miss you, Jewel.
 KAMENY-Rae. Died peacefully in her 101st year. Survived by her daughter Edna and son Franklin; her son-in-law Ira Lavey and many nieces and nephews.       
 LAFONTANT - MANKARIOUS - Jewel. The Board of Directors of Revlon Group, Inc., notes with great sadness the death of our colleague and friend, Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious. A longtime director of the company, she was a brilliant attorney and advisor, a dedicated public servant and a woman of s
 MODLIN-Sylvia. Suddenly on June 8. Survived by Joe, Barrie and Leah, Avery and Ellen, Adam and Wendy. Services were held on Sunday. Shiva at home in Riverdale. MODLIN-Sylvia. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of Sylvia Modlin, beloved moth
 SCHWARTZ-Rose, 96. Beloved wife of the late Harry; devoted mother of Janet; cherished Nana of Lisa and Julie. Died June 7, 1997. Also survived by loving sonin-law Myron Fine and children Jeri, Marti, and Leslie; also grandchild Gregory. She will be greatly missed. The family will observe sh
 WALDMAN-Dorothy. On June 8, 1997. Beloved and cherished by so many. Wife of Leo; mother of Rita, Shirley and Marvin. Grandmother of Michelle, Hal, Cheryl, Richard, Andrew and Jacob; great-grandmother of Max, Brian, and Evan. The twinkle in her eye, the resolve of her spirit will be missed b
 ALBERTIS-SARA B. On June 8, 1997. Founded and ran Saral Paper Company until the sale of the company at her retirement in 1985. Passed away quietly at Mount Sinai Hospital. She is survived by her stepson, John W. Halderman of Dana Point, California and her cousin, Carolyn Beshears Brooks of 
 BOOKBINDER-Blanche Rostow. Died May 11 in Hallandale, FL. She was born in New York and lived in the Oranges before moving to Forida. She was a member of Temples Sharey Tefilo and Israel for 25 years. She taught at Peshine Avenue School in Newark for over 35 years before retiring. Mrs. Bookb
 GIL-Rosa, Mrs. The Board of Governors, members and staff of The Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the passing of Mrs. Rosa Gil, the mother of Rosa M. Gil, D.S.W., the Chairperson of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation and Special Advisor to Mayor Rudolph Giu
 KAMENY-Rae. Died peacefully in her 101st year. Survived by her daughter Edna and son Franklin; her son-in-law Ira Lavey and many nieces and nephews.       
 ROOS-Julie Ann. Our hearts ache for the entire Roos family on the untimely passing of Julie Ann Roos. Our sincerest heartfelt sympathy go out to her devoted father Edward G. Roos, and to her beloved brothers Andrew H. Roos and Peter Roos. Newmark & Co. Real Estate Inc. William Cohen Ronald 
 ARONS-Melody. The faculty and staff of the Columbia University School of Public Health mourn the tragic loss of Melody Arons, daughter of our colleague and friend, Dr. Ray Arons. Ms. Arons died June 5 at the age of 29. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the family. Surviving are her fath
 BAFFIGI-Christine M. Suddenly on June 9, 1997. Of Forest Hills, N.Y. Graduate of Our Lady of Pompeii Grammar School and High School, Manhattanville College and Pratt Institute. Loving daughter of the late Bernard and Susan (nee Sartori) Baffigi. Dear cousin of Dolores M. Sartori. Beloved ow
 EISENBERG - Matilda. Beloved mother, grandmother, family member, activist, teacher, friend, June 9, age 88. Her love, humor and friendship will be deeply missed. Graveside service Jun. 12 Mt. Lebanon, Queens NY 12:30pm.       
 GOLDSMITH - Jean K., died peacefully at home, June 9, 1997. Devoted wife of the late Rudy Goldsmith; loving mother of Margaret Radens (David), Allison Masry (Rudy) and Paul Goldsmith (Connie); dear grandmother of Carl and Jessica, Natanya and Adam, and Ashley; great-grandmother of Caleb. Sh
 HOFFER-Rose Liebman. Died on June 10th. Pre-law NYU, LLB Brooklyn Law School, Doctor of Humane Letters, Honoris Causa, International University College at Aix En Provence, where she had been a Trustee. She was a retired NYC Administrative Law Judge, and in the 1970s she served as the U.N. R
 LEPERCQ-Kathleen D. Died June 7, 1997, of a heart attack. She is survived by a brother, Thomas Draper, of NYC. Funeral services will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: The Fund for Animals, Inc, 355 West 52nd Street, N.Y., New York 10019.       
 MARCUSE-Caroline (Nee Bear). Died on June 10, 1997. 92 years old. Wife of the late John Marcuse. Beloved mother of Ann Raymond and Lee Marcuse. Adored grandmother of Jennifer Farrell and Pamela Raymond. Dear sister of Annette Hofbauer. She leaves two great-grandchildren. In memory please se
 MARKMAN-Charlotte. June 9, 1997. She is survived by her husband Abe, her son Michael, her daughter-in-law Cassandra and grandson Tariq, aunt Ethel Montgomery and cousin Nan McCune and a host of dear and devoted relatives and friends. Charlotte was beloved on the Lower East Side and was a li
 NEWSTADT-Mrs. Milicent (Penny) Brown, daughter of Judge Arthur and Helen Brown, now deceased, died on Sunday, June 8, on her 67th birthday following a short illness. Her husband David, children Tod and Tracy, and her best friend Peggy, were embracing her as she died peacefully. Penny lived 
 ROOS-Julie Ann. Our hearts ache for the entire Roos family on the untimely passing of Julie Ann Roos. Our sincerest heartfelt sympathy go out to her devoted father Edward G. Roos, and to her beloved brothers Andrew H. Roos and Peter Roos. Newmark & Co. Real Estate Inc. William Cohen Ronald 
 ROTENSTREICH - Rose Tene baum. Died June 10, Birmingham, Alabama. Adored wife of the late Nathan Rotenstreich. Loving mother of Jon and Susan Rotenstreich, James and Judy Rotenstreich, Ferne Siegel. Cherished grandmother to 9 grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren. Her sense of fun, humor
 SHALITA - MARMOUR - Debbie Temple Shaaray Tefila is filled with sorrow over her untimely death. She grew up in and was married in our synagogue. She shared her smile and laughter with all who knew her. We will sorely miss her. We extend our hearts and loving sympathy to her husband David, h
 TRELL-Bluma L. On June 10, 1997. Professor Emeritus NYU. Widow of Max. Loving mother of Max, Jr. Contributions in her memory to Echo Hill Campership Fund, Worton, MD 21678 or Actors Fund Home, Englewood, N.J.       
 WOLFSON-Betty. Died suddenly on June 9, 1997. Beloved wife of Harvey. Loving mother of JoAnn Novak and her husband Frank. Cherished grandmother of Samantha Novak. Dear sister of Andrew Tompkins. Private memorial will be held. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The American Diab
 Bluma L. Trell, whose unbridled enthusiasm brought ancient Greece alive to a generation of New York University students even as her meticulous research into ancient coins had given scholars their first definitive view of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in
 ALBERTIS-Sara B. (Sally) 3/17/056/8/97. Farewell to our dear beloved friend. She was a great lady, a woman ahead of the times. An artist, inventor, young at heart, and a lover of life. She will be missed by all of her friends. With love Debbie, Steve, Todd, and Liza Garrin       
 BAFFIGI-Christine M. Suddenly on June 9, 1997. Of Forest Hills, N.Y. Graduate of Our Lady of Pompeii Grammar School and High School, Manhattanville College and Pratt Institute. Loving daughter of the late Bernard and Susan (nee Sartori) Baffigi. Dear cousin of Dolores M. Sartori. Beloved ow
 BLUM-Eleanore Grace Louria. Peacefully, at home, just a few days after her 104th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Richard Leon Blum, loving mother of Howard and the late Richard Jr., adoring grandmother of Howard Jr., Thomas, William, Eleanore, Richard III, Cornelius, and her six greatgra
 EINHORN-Carolyn Beitman, widow of Benjamin Einhorn, died yesterday at her home. She recently celebrated her 89th birthday. Mrs. Einhorn is lovingly remembered by her daughters Ellen Einhorn Messing & Susan Einhorn Whyman. She took pride in her six grandchildren: Robin, Cathy, Nancy, Bill, J
 GARGIULO-Helen A., 79, died June 10 in Monterey, CA. Born February 4, 1918 in New York, NY, she was a legal secretary for the State of New York for 37 years. A graduate of Hunter College, she moved to Pacific Grove, CA. a year ago after living in New York all her life. Survived by son, Ted 
 HODES-Pauline, 73, of Long Beach, NY and Ft. Lauderdale, FL on June 10, 1997. Devoted wife of Louis. Beloved mother of Laura Drexler and Arlene Raskin. Loving mother-in-law of Alan and Bruce. Cherished grandmother of Seth, Erica, Risa, Evan and Ian. Dear sister-in-law of Selma and Benjamin 
 HOFFER-Rose Liebman. The Brooklyn Law School community notes with profound sadness the passing of Rose L. Hoffer, a member of the Class of 1954, and a distinguished and cherished alumnus. Her devotion to the Law School was reflected in her tireless service as President of the Law School Alu
 SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah, on June 10, 1997. Beloved wife of David Marmour; mother of Daniel; daughter of Simone and Alan Shalita; sister of Judith Shalita. Services Friday, 11am, at Congregation Shaaray Tefila, 79th Street and 2nd Avenue, NYC. SHALITA - MARMOUR - Debbie. Temple S
 VELELLA-Carmella. (Nee Chiavaro). Beloved wife of Vincent. Dearest mother of Connie Tudisco, Maria Collura and Senator Guy Velella. Also survived by ten grandchildren and eleven greatgrandchildren. Reposing at Ralph Giordano Funeral Home, 1727 Crosby Avenue, Bronx, Thursday and Friday, from
 WOODLE-Jessica Slocum. Of NYC and Nantucket, MA. On June 10, 1997. She was the daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. C. Jonathan Slocum, widow of Joseph Cass Woodle, mother of Peter Cass Woodle, who predeceased her, and Joanne Slocum Woodle, MD. Grandmother of Gage and Alexandra Fairey. She is 
 Cardboard boxes clutter the floor of Dr. Mary Hibberd's office here, some filled with files to discard and others bulging with mementos to keep. Her desk is strewn with folders and a hammer and a screwdriver for removing photos from the wood-paneled wall. Dr. Hibberd, the Suffolk Co
 BAFFIGI-Christine M. Suddenly on June 9, 1997. Of Forest Hills, N.Y. Graduate of Our Lady of Pompeii Grammar School and High School, Manhattanville College and Pratt Institute. Loving daughter of the late Bernard and Susan (nee Sartori) Baffigi. Dear cousin of Dolores M. Sartori. Beloved ow
 BLUM-Eleanore Grace Louria. Peacefully, at home, just a few days after her 104th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Richard Leon Blum, loving mother of Howard and the late Richard Jr., adoring grandmother of Howard Jr., Thomas, William, Eleanore, Richard III, Cornelius, and her six greatgra
 DAVIDSON - Madeline. Passed away at her home in New York City on June 9, 1997. She was a former member of the New Dramatists and the Actors Studio Playwrights Unit. Her plays have been produced in regional theater. She is survived by loving godchildren, nephews and cousins. Interment privat
 HOFFER-Rose L. The Officers, Directors and members of the Metropolitan Women's Bar Association express their deepest regret at the loss of our founding member and past president, Rose L. Hoffer. We will always remember Rose as an elegant and gracious lady and a true and generous friend. We 
 KORINS-Carol, 53, on June 11, 1997. Beloved wife of Roy. Loving mother of Janet and Russell. Proud grandmother of Joshua. We will remember you always. KORINS-Carol. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her berea
 LEPERCQ-Kathleen D. Died June 7, 1997, of a heart attack. She is survived by a brother, Thomas Draper, of NYC. Funeral services will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: The Fund for Animals, Inc, 355 West 52nd Street, N.Y., New York 10019.       
 SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The administration, faculty, staff and students of the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourn with great sadness the untimely passing of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, daughter of Dr. Alan Shalita, Chairman of the Department of Dermatolog
 VELELLA-Carmella. (Nee Chiavaro). Beloved wife of Vincent. Dearest mother of Connie Tudisco, Maria Collura and Senator Guy Velella. Also survived by ten grandchildren and eleven greatgrandchildren. Reposing at Ralph Giordano Funeral Home, 1727 Crosby Avenue, Bronx, Thursday and Friday, from
 VERDON-Bliss. Her friends and colleagues at New York University are deeply saddened by her tragic and senseless death. We extend our hearts and loving sympathy to her family and to all her friends. ''There is not room for Death, Nor atom that his might could render void; Since thou art Bein
 WARDWELL-Lelia M., 90, June 11, 1997, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Edward R. Wardwell, mother of Lelia W. Seidner, Allen Wardwell, Helen W. DuBois. Also survived by her sister-in-law Clarissa Wardwell Pell, 9 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Memorial service Wednesday, Ju
 WEISS-Helene (nee Monies), died June 8, 1997, after prolonged illness, at Nyack Manor Nursing Home, Valley Cottage, NY. She leaves a daughter and two grandchildren. Rest in peace noble spirit.       
 WOODLE-Jessica Slocum. Of NYC and Nantucket, MA. On June 10, 1997. She was the daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. C. Jonathan Slocum, widow of Joseph Cass Woodle, mother of Peter Cass Woodle, who predeceased her, and Joanne Slocum Woodle, MD. Grandmother of Gage and Alexandra Fairey. She is 
 BLUM-Eleanore. The Board and Staff of Louise Wise Services mourns the passing of our longest serving and beloved Board Member. She was a kind, gentle and generous woman who cared greatly for children, and a dedicated leader on behalf of the best interests of children. We extend our deepest 
 DAVIDSON - Madeline. Passed away at her home in New York City on June 9, 1997. She was a former member of the New Dramatists and the Actors Studio Playwrights Unit. Her plays have been produced in regional theater. She is survived by loving godchildren, nephews and cousins. Interment privat
 FOUST-Judith M., of Marine Park on June 13, 1997. Former Deputy Director of the Brooklyn Public Library. Beloved wife of Thomas. Loving mother of Karen Payano and Adrea Fitzgerald. Dearest sister of Patricia Muneio. Also survived by one grandson. Funeral Monday from the Marine Park Funeral 
 HOFFER-Rose. We mourn the passing of our tremendously loved grandmother, Rose Hoffer. She was a pioneer and inspiration to all of us. We will think of her always as her great spirit remains in our hearts. Marjorie, Joanne, Ilene, Suzie, Alex and great-granddaughter, Sara Rose.       
 ROSENSHINE-Sylvia Sharis. On June 13, 1997. Beloved wife of Marvin, loving mother of Benjamin and mother-in-law of Dawn. Adored sister of Jack Weksler, cherished daughter of the late Benjamin and Ethel Weksler. Services 1:15 PM, Sunday at ''The Riverside,'' West 76th Street and Amsterdam Av
 WARDWELL-Lelia M., 90, June 11, 1997, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Edward R. Wardwell, mother of Lelia W. Seidner, Allen Wardwell, Helen W. DuBois. Also survived by her sister-in-law Clarissa Wardwell Pell, 9 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Memorial service Wednesday, Ju
 Anita Finkel, a dance writer and editor, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 47. The cause was cancer, said Leslie Getz McDonagh, a friend. Ms. Finkel came to dance writing from an academic background. Born in Los Angeles, she earned one doctorate in English 
 Mary D. Keyserling, an economist who made women and children the focus of her work in and out of government, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in McLean, Va. She was 87 and had been director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau during the era of feminist ferment in the 1960's.        
 ALBERTIS-Sara B. On June 8, 1997. Founded and ran Saral Paper Company until the sale of the company at her retirement in 1985. Passed away quietly at Mount Sinai Hospital. She is survived by her stepson, John W. Halderman of Dana Point, California and her cousin, Carolyn Beshears Brooks of 
 BLUM-Eleanore Grace Louria. Peacefully, at home, just a few days after her 104th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Richard Leon Blum, loving mother of Howard and the late Richard Jr., adoring grandmother of Howard Jr., Thomas, William, Eleanore, Richard III, Cornelius, and her six greatgra
 DAVIDSON-Hilda Abel, 88. Novelist. Died June 12 in her New York City home. She is survived by her daughter, Carla Davidson, sisterin-law, Vivienne Abel, and nieces Valerie Abel-Lentini and Olivia Abel. Private service held later.       
 DAVIDSON - Madeline. Passed away at her home in New York City on June 9, 1997. She was a former member of the New Dramatists and the Actors Studio Playwrights Unit. Her plays have been produced in regional theater. She is survived by loving godchildren, nephews and cousins. Interment privat
 DAVIS-Nomina Twining, 100 years, of Sun City Center, Florida, formerly of NYC, on June 9th, 1997. Born 1897 in Lansingburg, NY to Frank Barton Twining and Nomina Bucklin Twining, educated at Emma Willard School, graduated from Miss Porter's School and attended classes at RPI. She moved to F
 FOUST-Judith M. It is with sorrow that the Board of Trustees of the Brooklyn Public Library notes the passing of Judith M. Foust, who served the library with great distinction as Deputy Director (198994) and Acting Director (1994-95). She was a great friend of public libraries and advocate 
 HODES-Pauline. Temple Israel of Long Beach and its Sisterhood record with sorrow the passing of their member of more than fifty years and Life Member of Sisterhood, the benefactor with her husband of the Pauline & Louis Hodes Nursery School. The Hodes family, as her parents, Yetta and Jacob
 HOFFMAN-Pearl. Of Great Neck NY, on June 12. Cherished mother of Robert and Harris and daughter-in-law Joan. Adoring grandmother of Gray. Memorial service at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, Monday at Noon, 55 Station Plaza North, Great Neck, New York. She will be very deeply missed.       
 HORWITZ-Irma. The National Society For Hebrew Day Schools mourns the loss of Mrs. Irma Horwitz who for more than four decades headed the National Associations of Hebrew Day Schools PTAs an affiliate of Torah Umesorah. Irma's father the late lamented Mr. Samuel C. Feuerstein z''l, together w
 KEYSERLING-Mary Dublin, on Wednesday, June 11, 1997. Wife of the late Leon H. Keyserling. Sister of Dr. Thomas Dublin and Amos Dublin. She is also survived by 12 nieces and nephews. Interment Private. Memorial contributions may be made in the name of Mary Dublin Keyserling to Barnard Colleg
 LAFONTANT - MANKARIOUS Jewel. The Board of Directors of Equitable Life notes with sadness the passing of former Board member, Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious. During her twelve year tenure on the Board, she served with distinction, imparting outstanding counsel, guidance and wisdom to the manage
 MARCUSE-Caroline (Nee Bear). Died on June 10, 1997. 92 years old. Wife of the late John Marcuse. Beloved mother of Ann Raymond and Lee Marcuse. Adored grandmother of Jennifer Farrell and Pamela Raymond. Dear sister of Annette Hofbauer. She leaves two great-grandchildren. In memory please se
 MILLER-Evelyn. We mourn the passing of our beloved Evelyn on June 13, 1997. She remains with us forever. Funeral service today, 11 AM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC. Contributions in her memory to cancer research would be appreciated. William, Laura, Judy, Bob
 ROCK-Catharine (McGraw), 97, of W. Harwich, formerly of Madison, NJ, died Thurs., June 12 at home. Wife of the late Harry S. Rock (1974), mother of Alvah O. Rock of Bay Shore, NY, Jean Luz of Bedminster, NJ and Helen Murdock of Dennisport, MA, and the late Edward A. Osmun, Sr. of Morristown
 ROSEN-Marlene. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marlene Rosen, beloved mother of our friend and Board member, Leslie Fastenberg. Leslie and her husband, David, are active and exemplary leaders and generous supporters of UJA-Federation. W
 VAN TIJN-Beatrix. Born on July 21, 1910 in Leipzig, Germany. Died June 12, 1997, in Portland, OR. Married Jacques van Tijn in 1937 and lived in Naarden, Netherlands. Fled to the US in 1940. Worked at Columbia University Library 1956-1980. Volunteered at the Metropolitan Museum of Art Librar
 WARDWELL-Lelia M., 90, June 11, 1997, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Edward R. Wardwell, mother of Lelia W. Seidner, Allen Wardwell, Helen W. DuBois. Also survived by her sister-in-law Clarissa Wardwell Pell, 9 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Memorial service Wednesday, Ju
 WOLFF-Carol D., whose engagement to Gordon was announced in this paper fifty-eight years ago. She was greatly loved and admired by her husband Gordon, two daughters, three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. May she rest in peace.       
 WOLFSON-Betty. Died suddenly on June 9, 1997. Beloved wife of Harvey. Loving mother of JoAnn Novak and her husband Frank. Cherished grandmother of Samantha Novak. Dear sister of Andrew Tompkins. Private memorial will be held. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The American Diab
 WOODLE-Jessica Slocum. Of NYC and Nantucket, MA. On June 10, 1997. She was the daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. C. Jonathan Slocum, widow of Joseph Cass Woodle, mother of Peter Cass Woodle, who predeceased her, and Joanne Slocum Woodle, MD. Grandmother of Gage and Alexandra Fairey. She is 
 DAVIS-Nomina Twining, 100 years, of Sun City Center, Florida, formerly of NYC, on June 9th, 1997. Born 1897 in Lansingburg, NY to Frank Barton Twining and Nomina Bucklin Twining, educated at Emma Willard School, graduated from Miss Porter's School and attended classes at RPI. She moved to F
 HARMAN - Laura. Cherished mother, sister, aunt, grandmother and adored wife of the late Leo Harman. Survived by sons Andrew and Bruce, daughters-in-law Jan and Jackie, grandchildren Jordan, Kyle, Jennifer and Amanda, and lifelong best friend and sister Shirley Posner and brother-in-law Mac 
 JACOBSON-Arlene (nee Revits). Age 55 years, on Saturday, June 14, 1997, of Wesley Hills, NY. Beloved wife of Jeffrey; loving mother of Marla and Michael; devoted twin sister of Marilyn Scher; and also survived by her brother Martin Revit. Services 11AM, Tuesday, at Temple Beth Sholom, 228 N
 LEWITTS - Estelle (Renick). Peacefully at home after a long illness on June 14, 1997. She was a devoted wife, loving and courageous mother and mother-in-law, doting grandmother and greatgrandmother. A pround upholder of Jewish tradition she also passed on to her offspring her commitment to 
 ROSENFELD-Estelle B. Passed away gently on June 14, 1997, to join her cherished husband, Dr. Sidney Rosenfeld. She was the loving mother of Alice Perez and mother-in-law of Joseph, and loving mother of Dr. Michael Rosenfeld and mother-in-law of Mary. Adoring grandmother of Peter London and 
 WARDWELL-Lelia M., 90, June 11, 1997, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Edward R. Wardwell, mother of Lelia W. Seidner, Allen Wardwell, Helen W. DuBois. Also survived by her sister-in-law Clarissa Wardwell Pell, 9 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Memorial service Wednesday, Ju
 Martha Duffy, a former senior editor in charge of coverage of the performing arts for Time magazine, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her husband, James Duffy. Mrs. Duffy, o
 COHEN-Rachel. Died peacefully at home at the age of 87. Loving wife of Harry for 66 years. Beloved mother of Sherry and Loren and grandmother of Evan. Sister of the late Dorothy Sternschein, Beatryce Halpern and Max J. Lorberbaum. Graveside services at Riverside Cemetery on June 15.        
 DAVIS-Nomina Twining, 100 years, of Sun City Center, Florida, formerly of NYC, on June 9th, 1997. Born 1897 in Lansingburg, NY to Frank Barton Twining and Nomina Bucklin Twining, educated at Emma Willard School, graduated from Miss Porter's School and attended classes at RPI. She moved to F
 FELDMAN-Sylvia. Age 79. On Jun 16, 1997, peacefully in her sleep. Beloved wife of Joseph Feldman and Herman Flink. Mother of Claire Press and Lawrence and Susan Feldman. Grandmother of Julie and Jeremy Feldman, Carey Press and Jody and Michael Strong. Services will be held at Riverside Chap
 FINKELSTEIN - Frances. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Community Centers Association/NA regret the sad loss of Frances Finkelstein, mother of our Executive Vice President, Allan Finkelstein. Our deepest sympathy goes to her children and grandchildren. Ann Kaufman, President  
 GETTMAN-Sheila passed away in her home at Westbury on June 13,1997. Beloved wife, mom, mother-in-law, grandma, sister and neice. She is survived by her husband Jules, her children Lonnie, Laurie, and Steven, son-in-law Eric, grandchildren Gina, Arielle and Mark, her sister Gloria and her Au
 GORMAN-Augusta. Adoring wife of the late Buzzy Gorman, loving mother of Diane G. Kranz, Phyllis A. King and Bonnie A. Gorman. Loving mother-in-law of Barry King and the late Jerome E. Kranz. Loving grandmother of Marni and James Orsbern and Noah King. Neatly attired, she was always admired.
 HARMAN - Laura. Cherished mother, sister, aunt, grandmother and adored wife of the late Leo Harman. Survived by sons Andrew and Bruce, daughters-in-law Jan and Jackie, grandchildren Jordan, Kyle, Jennifer and Amanda, and lifelong best friend and sister Shirley Posner and brother-in-law Mac 
 HELLER-Elizabeth Phillips, age 86, on June 14, 1997 of complications from pneumonia; for 58 years wife of Franklin Heller of North Branford, CT. Mother of Jane Stewart, Norwalk, CT; grandmother of Heather Many, Rebecca and Liam Filan; also survived by three great grandchildren. A graduate o
 LEWITTES-Estelle. The Congregation of the Malverne Jewish Center mourns the passing of our longtime member, Estelle Lewittes. Heartfelt condolences to her husband Aaron and daughters. Barry J. Chesler, Rabbi Murray Greenspan, Pres.       
 MOSS-Sarah Lynn, 36, died on Monday after a short illness. She is survived by her parents, four sisters, a nephew, two nieces. Moss, a graduate of L.S.U. and The Natural Gourmet Cooking School was chef at The Botany Restaurant. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, June 18 at the John 
 NIGRO-Giovanna. The Board of Directors and Staff of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City mourn the passing of Giovanna Nigro, a program director at UCP for 28 years. Miss Nigro's level of achievement in her work and commitment to the disabled was unparalleled. We extend our deepest sympat
 ROSENFELD-Estelle B. Passed away gently on June 14, 1997, to join her cherished husband, Dr. Sidney Rosenfeld. She was the loving mother of Alice Perez and mother-in-law of Joseph, and loving mother of Dr. Michael Rosenfeld and mother-in-law of Mary. Adoring grandmother of Peter London and 
 ROTHMAN-Mary, age 97. Loving wife of the late Marty Rothman. Her friends and family will long cherish her lively spirit, intelligence and love. She enriched our lives.       
 WARDWELL-Lelia M., 90, June 11, 1997, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Edward R. Wardwell, mother of Lelia W. Seidner, Allen Wardwell, Helen W. DuBois. Also survived by her sister-in-law Clarissa Wardwell Pell, 9 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Memorial service Wednesday, Ju
 Dr. Katherine Esau, an international leader in studying plant structure who laid the foundation for much current research into plant function, died on June 4 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 99. ''She absolutely dominated the field of plant anatomy and morphology for sev
 FEIDELSON-Etta Mirsky. A native of Savannah, GA. Died in NY on Monday, June 16 after a short illness. She was 92. Mrs. Feidelson was the widow of Robert Feidelson, sister of Freda Meyers, mother of Suzanne and Don Mendonsa, and Michael and Babs Feidelson. Grandmother of Robert and Paul Feid
 GOLDBERG-Frieda G. Lifelong Tarrytown, New York resident. Passed away June 17, 1997, at her home in Tarrytown. Survived by daughters, Myra Gordon & Susan Alpert and her son-in-law, Stanley Alpert, her grandchildren, Harold and Carrie Gordon, Alissa and Robert Lipkin and Leslie Gordon. She i
 GORMAN-Augusta. Adoring wife of the late Buzzy Gorman, loving mother of Diane G. Kranz, Phyllis A. King and Bonnie A. Gorman. Loving mother-in-law of Barry King and the late Jerome E. Kranz. Loving grandmother of Marni and James Orsbern and Noah King. Neatly attired, she was always admired.
 SALAVERRY-Elaine S. June 17, 1997. Beloved sister of Robert Shankroff and Dr. Dorris E. Tinker. Loving aunt of Deborah Hanna, Dr. Thomas Hanna, Donald Tinker, Dr. Peter Tinker, Megan French, Timothy Hanna and several grandnieces and nephews. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. 
 Thalassa Cruso, an authority on plants who was known as ''the Julia Child of horticulture'' for her common-sense if often loopy gardening programs on television in the 1960's, died on June 11 at Newton and Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Wellesley, Mass. She was 88 and lived in Marion, Mass. 
 BRONSON-Evelyn. On June 18, 1997. Beloved wife of Alan. Devoted mother of Dr. Mitchell Bronson, Bonnie Herskowitz and Robin Ward. Caring mother-in-law to Nancy Bronson, Allen Herskowitz and Dr. Kenneth Ward. Cherished grandmother of Erika Ward, Lauren Bronson, Michael Bronson, Allison Ward,
 ELLIS-Esta B. Formerly of Mt Vernon, NY, on June 16, 1997 at 94. She served on the National Board of Hadassah and for 16 years represented Hadassah at the United Nations. She was also active in her community. She is survived by her daughter Patricia Stone, grandchildren Susan and Robert and
 KEILLER-Helen, on June 16, 1997. Beloved daughter of the late George and Mary Keiller. Survived by her nephews, Gary Keiller and Edgar Edman. Funeral services at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, Madison Avenue at 71 Street, Friday 11:30 AM.       
 KESSLER-Hattie. On June 17, 1997. Beloved mother, grandmother and devoted wife to her late husband Ben. She is survived by her loving daughter Adrienne and son-in-law Steve Grossman, and grandchildren Kenneth and Lauren. She will be sorely missed by family, friends and all who knew her.    
 QUINN-Sheila. The partners and staff of Morris & McVeigh LLP mourn the sudden loss of Sheila Quinn, the head of our Tax Department. We will miss the warmth of her personality, her sense of humor and sage advice. We extend our deepest sympathy to her sisters, Eileen T. Giacobbe and Kathleen 
 RAVENNA-Pia Levi. The Members and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Partner, Gisella Caroti, and her brother, Jiulio Levi, & the entire family, on the passing June 17, 1997 of Gisella's beloved mother, Pia Levi Ravenna of Italy. A distinguished past Pres
 SALAVERRY-Elaine S. June 17, 1997. Beloved sister of Robert Shankroff and Dr. Dorris E. Tinker. Loving aunt of Deborah Hanna, Dr. Thomas Hanna, Donald Tinker, Dr. Peter Tinker, Megan French, Timothy Hanna and several grandnieces and nephews. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. 
 SCHEINMAN-Ethel, of Lynbrook, NY on June 17, 1997 at 91 years. Devoted wife of the late Israel Scheinman who died in 1953. Daughter of William Hornick and Fannie Sternberg Hornick; elder sister of Eleanor Jacobson and Newton Hornick. She is survived by her son Graham, grandsons John and Dou
 SCHIEREN-Frances. The Sisterhood of Temple Beth El of Long Beach mourns the passing of our past President and life member, Frances Schieren. Heartfelt condolences to her husband Rubin and children. Florence Schechter, President Cynthia Landau, Chairman of Board       
 SILBERBERG-Hannelore on June 17, 1997. Beloved wife of Wolfgang, loving mother of Steven and Deborah, cherished grandmother of David and sister of Guy, after a long illness which she bore with the great courage and selflessness that characterized her whole life. Services Thursday, 12:30, ''
 Elaine Ryan Hedges, an author, educator and expert on the contributions of American women to literature and the arts, died on June 5 at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. She was 69 and lived in Roland Park in suburban Baltimore. The cause was an aneurysm, according to Towson State Univer
 Frances Foster, a character actress, a stage director and a founding member of the Negro Ensemble Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Far Rockaway, Queens. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Hattie Winston, a fri
 Sue Sumii, a fiery human rights campaigner whose landmark novel sold 8.3 million copies and helped change attitudes toward Japan's ''untouchables,'' died last Monday. She was 95. Mrs. Sumii's greatest literary and social accomplishment was ''The River With No Bridge,'' a multivolume
 BRAINSON-Ethel C.T. On June 22, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Hyman L. , loving mother of Arthur and Linda. Proud grandmother of Mitchell, David and Daphna, great-grandmother of Gabriel. Dear sister of the late Oscar and cherished sister-in-law of Hannah Tannenbaum. Donations in her memory
 DICKENSON-Harriet Ford. Peter Martins, Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman, Howard Solomon, President, the Board of Directors, dancers, and staff of New York City Ballet wish to express their deepest condolences to the family of Harriet Ford Dickenson. Her contributions to the Company touched our 
 EGOL-Laura, age 83, died peacefully in Miami, FL on June 7, 1997. She will be missed and always remembered by her children Lewis (Gail), Andrew (Nancy) and Mandy; her brother Hy (Ruth); her grandchildren Erik, Jessica and Jared; her cousins, nieces, nephews and countless friends from the Br
 HAWKEY-Sr. Eileen, S.C. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Medical Staff, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration and the entire family of St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center mourn the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Sr. Eileen, a cherished member of the Hospital staff for
 HODSON-Anna Marie ''Pat'' Dwyer, 73, of Basin Harbor, VT and Delray Beach, FL died at her home in Basin Harbor on Monday, June 23, 1997. She was born in New York City on April 19, 1924 the daughter of Gerald P. and Anna Marie (Haubrech) Dwyer. On July 23, 1949 she was married in Port Washin
 JONTOW-Mary. She leaves behind a son, Bernhard L., a daughter-in-law, Eleanor J., and daughter-in-law, Sylvia; five grandchildren and nine great grandchildren.       
 KLEINBERG-Rosalyn. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, NY mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, Jonah, and children, Neila and Mitchell and the entire family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz
 RITCHIN-Estelle. East Midwood Jewish Center mourns the passing of our former trustee and wife of our former vice president, Dr. Hy Ritchin. Estelle was a brilliant and talented woman who loved education and found her greatest pleasure in meeting the needs of others. She will be sorely misse
 SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. The Professional Staff Congress of The City University of New York extends its profound sympathy to the family of our beloved colleague at Medgar Evers College, Dr. Betty Shabazz. Dr. Shabazz was a unique personality who brought the instructional staff together in a commi
 WALTER-Anna C. Of Princeton, NJ and NYC, died June 20 in her 90th year after a short illness. Born in NYC, she was a founding partner with her late husband Fred of Thermo Electric Co. in Saddle Brook, NJ. Long active in church and civic affairs in Fairlawn and Allendale, NJ, she was for man
 DORMER-Gunnel Jerrebo, 58, of Palm Harbor, Florida, died Sunday June 22 at Helen Alice Memorial Hospital in Tarpon Springs, Florida. She was born in Helsingborg, Sweden, and came to the United States in 1965. Before moving to Florida in 1994 she was a member of the staff of The College Boar
 MARCHISIO-Rosina Lawrence, June 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Judge Juvenal Marchisio and caring wife of Dr. John McCabe. Loving mother of Juvenal L., Rosina and Margaret. Adoring grandmother of Giulia, Francesco, Juvenal, Christina, and Arianna. Her grace and sensitivity have left an 
 ROSE-Elaine Asher. The members of the New York Wellesley College Friends of Art mourn the untimely passing of their longtime associate Elaine Asher Rose. The Friends of Art and the Davis Museum and Cultural Center at Wellesley have benefitted immeasurably from her vision, energy, and sound 
 SCHWARTZ-Anne Phillips. Died peacefully of natural causes in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Roberta Ackerman, Harold Schwartz and Dr. Stuart Schwartz. Loving mother-in-law of the late Sy Ackerman, Doris Cadoux, Judy Rosley & Dr. Roberta Huberman. Darling N
 SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. Columbia University mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Betty Shabazz. Dr. Shabazz devoted her life to promoting the values of education, community, and family. She was herself a leading example of those principles, educating herself in college and graduat
 BROPHY-Shirley Lamm. On June 25, 1997 of Bay Shore, N.Y. Loving mother of Bernard, Eric, Moira Snover and Steven. Fond grandmother of Emma. Also survived by her sister, Lillian Kaplan and her brothers Charles and Kermit Lamm. The family will receive friends today 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at the Geo
 GRIFFASI-Christina. Minardi Salon, New York City, mourns the loss of Christina Griffasi who died after a courageous battle with cancer on June 24, 1997. During the past ten years Christina served as Salon Style Director and appeared with Carmine and Beth Minardi on numerous educational plat
 SCHILLER-Jacqueline. Calvary Hospital mourns the loss of its friend, Jacqueline Schiller. Her concern for others will continue to be an inspiration to all of us. Roy Clary, Executive VP Calvary Fund       
 SCHWARTZ-Anne Phillips. Died peacefully of natural causes in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Roberta Ackerman, Harold Schwartz and Dr. Stuart Schwartz. Loving mother-in-law of the late Sy Ackerman, Doris Cadoux, Judy Rosley & Dr. Roberta Huberman. Darling N
 TWOHY-Marie A. (nee Gallagher), on June 24, 1997, at home in Bay Ridge after a long illness at age 92. Survived by her four children James F., Jr., John P., Mary J. (Kate) Twohy and Anne T. Stubbs; 7 grandchildren and three great grandchildren; three of her eight siblings, Grace, J. Vincent
 VAN FELIX-Florence, June 21, 1997 in her 82nd year. Longterm Greenwich Village resident and activist. Survived by husband William, daughters Norma and Martha, son Andrew, grandchildren David, Michelle and Katie.       
 Rita Dimitri, a multilingual singer who was the ebullient spirit of the Manhattan supper club La Chansonette for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 67. Stanley Brilliant, her husband,  partner and frequent accompanist, said the cause was kidney ca
 Joan Daves, a leading literary agent whose client list included six Nobel Prize winners, died on Wednesday at her home in Bedford, N.Y. Ms. Davis, who also had a home in Manhattan, was 77. Her husband, Joe H. Kirchberger, said the cause was an acute asthmatic attack. For dec
 KELLENBERG-Elizabeth Mary, of Rockville Centre, N.Y. on June 25, 1997. Devoted daughter of the late Elizabeth and Conrad. Predeceased by her dear late brothers Conrad J., Most Rev. Walter P. Kellenberg, D.D., Msgr. Edward J., and her dear late sister Marie E. Kellenberg. Loving aunt of Conr
 BAKER-Ruth Anne, of Stamford, CT., on Wednesday at her home. Sister of Charlotte Feinberg of Stamford. Also survived by several nieces and nephews. A graveside service was held Friday at Fairfield Memorial Park.       
 BERNARD-Ann. Adored daughter of the late Hyman and Fannie. Cherished sister of Bess, Lillian, Adolph and Florence Bernard and the late Bernice. Loving and devoted aunt of Clifford and Leslie Bernard and Dr. Robert and Lisa Bernard, proud great-aunt of Samantha and Chelsea. Because of her lo
 FRANKS-Sylvia. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our member Sylvia Franks and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her loving husband Harold and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, President Congregation Rodeph Sholom       
 SKLAR-Mildred Robbins. Died peacefully at age 89 after a long illness on June 27, 1997. Loving mother of Jay & Ellen Sklar, Isabel Sklar Jackson and Fred Jackson. Beloved grandmother of Elizabeth and Deborah; devoted great grandmother of Suzanne, Jennifer & Alexander. Loved & respected by m
 CUNEO-Mathilda Miller, on June 27, 1997. Loving mother of Richard Miller. Adoring grandmother of Tami, Rima and Ehren. Service Monday, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. CUNEO-Mathilda Miller. We deeply mourn the passing of our distinguished Trustee of 45 year
 FROWEIN-Dorine Ines (nee van den Broek d'Obrenan). On June 19, Fort Myers, FL. Peacefully after a courageous battle against cancer. Beloved wife of Alex. Dear sister of Aylsa den Toom. Loving and devoted mother of Catherine Malish and John van den Broek, and cherished grandmother of Peter M
 HARVEY-Rita Morley, whose career as an actress embraced television, radio and theatre and who, in the 1950's, while serving as a spokeswoman for The Coty Company, was dubbed ''America's Most Televised Girl,'' died Saturday, June 28, 1997, at the McLean Home in Simsbury, CT, after a long bat
 MINTZ-Elizabeth, Ph.D. Died after after a long illness on June 23rd, at the age of 83. A psychotherapist in private practice in New York City, she was a leader in the human potential movement. She authored numerous articles in professional publications and two books. She was the widow of Al
 ROACH-Constance, 93, died on June 23, 1997, in Orinda, California. From 1942 until retirement in 1963, Miss Roach enjoyed a successful career in government service, beginning during World War II in the Office of War Information, Washington, DC. In 1947, she became a member of the UNESCO Rel
 SKLAR-Mildred Robbins. Died peacefully at age 89 after a long illness on June 27, 1997. Loving mother of Jay & Ellen Sklar, Isabel Sklar Jackson and Fred Jackson. Beloved grandmother of Elizabeth and Deborah; devoted great grandmother of Suzanne, Jennifer & Alexander. Loved & respected by m
 ZWEIBON-Sylvia H. On June 27, 1997. Beloved wife and mother. Suvived by her son Emanuel and brother Samuel Honigstock. Began activities in the Jabotinsky movement and was in the leadership council of Betar in Poland. After arriving in the U.S. in 1929, she helped organize Betar and Zionist 
 SCHMOLKA-Irene. Irene Schmolka was born on June 29, 1899 in Prague, Czech Republic, and died on November 12, 1996 in Pray, Montana. She is survived by two children, Eve Art and Lenny Schmolka, two children-in-law, Mike Art and Lucy Schmolka, four grandchildren, Andy and Jackie Art and Andre
 GERMAN-Ruth, of NYC. Devoted wife of the late Dr. David P. German. Loving mother of Arthur and Ronnie German, Janice and Alan E. Blumenthal and grandchildren Steven, Erica and Heidi, David, Leora and Joseph. Sister to Lillian Rothenberg. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
