 BERLINGER--Rhonie Hofheimer, peacefully at home on August 31, 2004 after 89 vigorous years. Loving and beloved wife of the late George F. Berlinger. Devoted mother of Nancy Klee Stone and Mary Ellen Klee. Admiring mother-in-law of Bob Stone. Dear sister of Marion H. Levy and the late Lt. Le
 GRITTANI -- Joan. Beloved wife of Salvatore, adored mother of Michael and Lisa, she will always be in our hearts and our minds. Memorial service to be announced. Donations can be made to Gilda Radner Familial Cancer Registry, www.ovariancancer.com       
 LOONIE--Aileen (Lee), 84, of Knoxville, TN, and formerly Manhasset, NY on August 29. Adored wife of the late Robert J. Loonie, loving mother of Jean Macmillan and Robert J. Loonie, Jr. Adored mother-in-law of Tom Macmillan and Patty Arledge-Loonie. Her loving kindness lives on in her five g
 MANES -- Esther (Chesler). On August 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Mathew. Cherished sister of Sarah and the late David. Adored mother of Marthe (Bob), Cathy (Rob) and Laurie, and grandmother of Darcy (Jonathan), Lindy, Sarah (Darin) and David (Megan). Funeral private. Contributions in
 SESKIS--Eleanor. On August 31, 2004. Died peacefully at home after a long, valiant endurance of Alzheimers disease surrounded by her loving family and friends. Devoted wife of John Y. Loving mother of Jane Soudavar. Beloved grandmother of Annabelle Soudavar. Sister of the late Herbert Diamo
 VOGEL--Sylvia L. (nee Levinson), on Monday, August 30, 2004, age 96, wife of the late H. Leonard Vogel; mother of Dr. Robert (Sharyn) Vogel and the late Janet Vogel Dorfman; mother-in-law ofSharyn Vogel, Paul Dorfman, sister of Dr. Leonard (Irene) Levinson; also survived by five grandchildr
 WRENN--M. Patricia, on August 28. Patricia lost her courageous battle with cancer at age 69. She will be deeply missed by her friends and neighbors, particularly those at 221 E. 78th St., and by her new friends at the Mary Manning Walsh Home where her spunky spirit and candid charm delighte
 BERLINGER--Rhonie Hofheimer, peacefully at home on August 31, 2004 after 89 vigorous years. Loving and beloved wife of the late George F. Berlinger. Devoted mother of Nancy Klee Stone and Mary Ellen Klee. Admiring mother-in-law of Bob Stone. Dear sister of Marion H. Levy and the late Lt. Le
 EGAN--Mary T. on August 31, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Raymond Egan. Loving mother of Heather Leeds and her husband Thomas V. Leeds. Cherished grandmother of Christine, T. Evan and Rory. Fond sister to her brothers Robert, Thomas and John Carr. Family will receive friends Thursday 7-9pm
 KATZMAN--Selma. Died August 31. Two and a half weeks shy of her 80th birthday. Loving wife to Bernard Katzman, devoted mother to Karen and Melanie Katzman, playful mother-in-law to Russell Makowsky and wildly proud grandmother to Wyndam and Harper Makowsky. Beloved sister to Lillian Schwart
 KOPLEWICZ--Roma, 85. Beloved wife, friend and lover of Joseph for 62 years. Devoted mother to Edith, Harold and Linda. Adoring grandmother to Joshua, Adam, Sam and Alex. Loyal and caring friend and dedicated social worker died August 31st. After surviving the horrors of the Holocaust, she w
 LEVENSON--Sylvia, on August 30, 2004, peacefully at age 90 in her home. Beloved wife of the late Morton. Devoted mother of Jill, Jack and Phyliss. Loving grandmother of Erika, David and Jon. We love you and miss you.       
 MANES -- Esther (Chesler). On August 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Mathew. Cherished sister of Sarah and the late David. Adored mother of Marthe (Bob), Cathy (Rob) and Laurie, and grandmother of Darcy (Jonathan), Lindy, Sarah (Darin) and David (Megan). Funeral private. Contributions in
 MISHKIN--Ruth L. of Manhattan, 84. Beloved cousin of nine, their sixteen children, thirty grands and four greats. She will be missed by all.       
 OSTROW--Elizabeth B. Died August 31, 2004 in her 81st birthday. Beloved wife for 60 years of Saul. Ethical, humane, courageous, strong, a true woman of valor, she will be sorely missed.       
 Helen Lane, a versatile translator whose projects included works by many important Latin-American authors, died on Sunday in Albuquerque, where she had lived since returning from France 11 years ago. She was 83. The cause was a stroke, said Ronald Christ, a friend and collaborator. 
 BENSON--Lenore. The Fashion Group International regrets the passing of its former Executive Director, Lenore Benson, after a distinguished career of more than 50 years in fashion retailing and publishing. Her many friends and colleagues will miss her talent, enthusiasm and warmth. Services 
 BROCKMAN--Irene. Passed away two days before her 99th birthday. Devoted wife of the late Larry. Beloved mother of Alan and Robert (and Jeannette). Adoring grandmother of George and Joshua. Extraordinarily active in communal affairs as Trustee of Riverdale Temple, member of Women's American 
 KASOWITZ--Felice. September 1, 2004, of 681 Heather Lane, West Haven, CT. Devoted wife of Robert Kasowitz. Beloved mother of Stephen Kasowitz of New Haven, Mark Kasowitz of NYC and Susan Oakey Kasowitz of Milford, CT. Also survived by five cherished grandchildren. Funeral services at Congre
 KOPLEWICZ--Roma, 85. Beloved wife, friend and lover of Joseph for 62 years. Devoted mother to Edith, Harold and Linda. Adoring grandmother to Joshua, Adam, Sam and Alex. Loyal and caring friend and dedicated social worker died August 31st. After surviving the horrors of the Holocaust, she w
 RUDNER -- Anna Louise Campbell, formerly of Shrewsbury and Lincroft, NJ, died peacefully on August 29, 2004 at age 81. Beloved daughter of the late Bruce Wallace Campbell and Margaret Rue Campbell, sister of the late Bruce Wallace Campbell, Jr and the late Robert R. Campbell, wife of the la
 SCHWARTZ - TENNEN BAUM--Anna. A woman ahead of her time, has passed away at the age of 91. She affected the lives of everyone she met with her passion, intelligence and honesty. She will be missed by her family, daughters Sylvia and Joyce, her son Larry, her six grandchildren and great-gran
 TIERNEY--Loren. The Department of Medicine and the NYU/Bellevue Pulmonary Division sadly announce the passing of Loren Tierney, M.D. She served as Chief Medical Resident, Pulmonary Fellow, and Clinical Instructor at NYU/Bellevue for 13 years. She was revered by her patients and widely respe
 VALENTINE--Carol, 63, of Valencia Road, Niskayuna, NY, died Saturday, August 28, 2004, after a two-and-one-half year courageous battle with acute leukemia. She was born September 14, 1940, in Brooklyn, NY, the daughter of the late William and Vivian MacTiernan, last of Phoenix Avenue, Schen
 Anne Coffin Hanson, an art historian and curator and the first woman to be hired as a full tenured professor at Yale, died yesterday at her home in New Haven. She was 82. Her death was announced by the Yale University Gallery of Art. Prof. Hanson was an authority on late-19t
 BROCKMAN--Irene. Passed away two days before her 99th birthday. Devoted wife of the late Larry. Beloved mother of Alan and Robert (and Jeannette). Adoring grandmother of George and Joshua. Extraordinarily active in communal affairs as Trustee of Riverdale Temple, member of Women's American 
 FRIEDMAN--Esther, on September 2, 2004, sister of Morris, sister-in-law of Norma and of Philip and Ruth. We will miss her. Services Sunday, September 5th, 2PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza (opp. LIRR), Great Neck, NY.       
 KASOWITZ--Felice. September 1, 2004, of 681 Heather Lane, West Haven, CT. Devoted wife of Robert Kasowitz. Beloved mother of Stephen Kasowitz of New Haven, Marc Kasowitz of NYC and Susan Oakey Kasowitz of Milford, CT. Also survived by five cherished grandchildren. Funeral services at Congre
 KOPLEWICZ--Roma, 85. Beloved wife, friend and lover of Joseph for 62 years. Devoted mother to Edith, Harold and Linda. Adoring grandmother to Joshua, Adam, Sam and Alex. Loyal and caring friend and dedicated social worker died August 31st. After surviving the horrors of the Holocaust, she w
 SLESINGER--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Charles Slesinger. A woman of valor and a lady of strength has passed away at the age of 95. She affected everyone she met with her interest, intensity, concern for their welfare, devotion and intelligence. A remarkable role model who will be sorel
 TIERNEY--Dr. Loren. The Department of Family Medicine of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center expresses its deepest sympathy to our Residency Director, Dr. Jim Mumford, on the passing of his beloved wife, Dr. Loren Tierney. We will always remember Loren's unbounded devotion to her family; her warm
 Rose Slivka, a writer, critic and editor and a major figure in the advancement of crafts as a serious artistic discipline in the United States, died on Thursday in Southampton, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Springs, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Charlotte Slivk
 BUSH--Susan L. of Connecticut and New York died July 26. Respected by the pharmaceutical advertising community of which she was a part for 30 years. A dear friend to so many, she was truly one of a kind. She will be greatly missed.       
 FRIEDMAN--Esther, on September 2, 2004, sister of Morris, sister-in-law of Norma and of Philip and Ruth. We will miss her. Services Sunday, September 5th, 2PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza (opp. LIRR), Great Neck, NY.       
 GOLDFISCHER -- Sally (Sa rah) Klaw. 98, of Lauderhill, FL, died September 1, 2004. Adored and adoring wife of the late William, predeceased by her beloved son Jerry. Devoted mother of Patrica Israel. Cherished by granddaughter Staci Girsch, her husband Barry, and greatgrandsons Bryan and Ra
 KASOWITZ--Felice. September 1, 2004, of 681 Heather Lane, West Haven, CT. Devoted wife of Robert Kasowitz. Beloved mother of Stephen Kasowitz of New Haven, Marc Kasowitz of NYC and Susan Oakey Kasowitz of Milford, CT. Also survived by five cherished grandchildren. Funeral services at Congre
 KOPLEWICZ--Roma, 85. Beloved wife, friend and lover of Joseph for 62 years. Devoted mother to Edith, Harold and Linda. Adoring grandmother to Joshua, Adam, Sam and Alex. Loyal and caring friend and dedicated social worker died August 31st. After surviving the horrors of the Holocaust, she w
 LISTON--Dr. Mary Frances. Passed away on September 3, 2004 at St. Cabrini Nursing Home in Dobbs Ferry. Dr. Liston is survived by her sister Helen Hennessy of Scarsdale, NY and her niece Mary Ellen Hennessy-Jones of Madison, NJ. Mass of Christian burial Tuesday, 10 AM, Our Lady of Fatima Chu
 MUKHERJI -- Bharati. Be loved mother of Asish and Pradipta, grandmother of Minki, Pinka and Ronnie, passed away on Thursday, August 26, 2004 at Sioux Falls, SD. Her mental strength inspired her loved ones. Funeral services are scheduled for Sunday, September 5th.       
 PAGANO--Marion Lubrano. Beloved wife of the late Placido Pagano, died peacefully at home in Englewood Cliffs, NJ on August 29, 2004. Much loved mother of Christina and Peter. Dear sister of Theresa. She will be missed for her laughter and love.       
 SLESINGER--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Charles Slesinger. A woman of valor and a lady of strength has passed away at the age of 95. She affected everyone she met with her interest, intensity, concern for their welfare, devotion and intelligence. A remarkable role model who will be sorel
 SOKAL--Robin (nee Levinson). Passed away Sunday, August 15, 2004, in Vienna, Austria. After a successful career with Time-Life and subsequently the United Nations, and, having been a devoted mother, friend and colleague, she will be greatly missed by her daughter, Sophia, her family and man
 SPARBER--Natalie. Of Aventura, Florida, precious sweetheart, wife, friend, lover and the joy of her beloved husband, Michael. Outstanding, devoted, true-blue, beloved, revered forever in the memory of her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, Arlyne and Richard, Jill and David, G
 TIERNEY--Dr. Loren. Age 42, died Wednesday, at Calvary Hospital after a long illness. A Rutgers and SUNY Downstate Medical School graduate, she served as Chief Medical Resident, Pulmonary Fellow and Clinical Instructor at NYU/Bellevue for 13 years. She was revered by her patients and widely
 WEIS--Gertrude. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted, longtime and founding member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 OSLER--Julie. Sept. 3, 2003. Missed and loved by her sisters, family and friends. She is with us       
 Lenore Benson, a former executive director of the Fashion Group International, died on Wednesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. She was 80. From 1984 to 1993, Ms. Benson directed the Fashion Group, a 6,000-member organization that promotes the advancement of women in
 BLUMENFELD--Violet. On August 31, 2004. Family and friends deeply mourn her passing. She is survived by her nieces, Frances, Gail, Lora Ann, and nephew Peter, as well as her great and great-greatnieces and nephews. For years she was the kind, patient, and elegant manager of the Swoboda Scho
 POTASH--Jeannette. Died on September 2, 2004, peacefully at age 89, in her home in Florida. Beloved wife of the late Harry, loving mother of Andrew and Andrea Potash and Matti and Steve Contopulos, and adored grandmother of Adam Potash, Scott Potash, Amy Contopulos Miller and Brad Miller, a
 WEIS--Gertrude. 82, on September 4, 2004. Beloved wife of Frederick. Cherished mother of the late Steven and Gerald, mother-in-law of Michele and grandmother to Lisa and Jessica. Contributions in her memory may be made to The American Cancer Society.       
 Nuha al-Radi, the Iraqi artist and diarist whose work depicted her country's tribulations with a wry, impish wit, has died in Beirut. She was 63. Ms. Radi died on Aug. 30, of pneumonia, her immune system severely weakened as a result of treatment for leukemia, said her sister, Selma
 BLUMBERG--Esterita (Cissie), 76, of Liberty, New York, died peacefully with her family at her side on September 3, 2004. She was the mother of Paul (and Noelle), and Amy (and Michael) Goldbas, Simsbury, CT, second mother of Kris Ohlson, grandmother of Matt, Jamie, Joanna, Jessie and Jake, s
 BRISK - EHRHARDT -- Anne, beloved wife of Peter, died peacefully after a four year struggle with ALS. Anne was an actor, an editor, a writer, a lover of theatre & language. She was a witty, rapturously funny, clever, devilish, childlike woman who loved life with a gusto few share. She will 
 BROMANTE -- Palma. On September 4, 2004 in Norwalk CT. She was CEO of Sirmos, a corporation serving the interior design and hospitality industries. She was 74 and resided in NYC and Weston CT. Beloved mother of Karen Alvarez, Craig Corona, Kevin Corona and Wayne Corona. Cherished grandmothe
 HENLE--Beatrice Rosenthal, beloved wife of the late John A. Henle, Jr., died peacefully on September 1st at the age of 97. Mrs. Henle resided at the Gramercy Park Hotel, Manhattan, for 65 years. She leaves two nephews, Leonard and Stanley Star of Hudson, OH and Naples, FL. She is also remem
 KAPNICK--Sylvia (Syd). Died at age 84 on September 3, 2004. Beloved wife and dearest friend of Oscar Kapnick. Devoted and loving mother of Steven Kapnick, the late JoAnne Kapnick and the late Susan Kapnick Bart. Devoted and loving mother-in-law of Joan Kapnick and Jacob Bart. Adored and che
 KOSS--Suzanne Helein. September 3, 2004. Professor Emerita Queens College, C.U.N.Y. Beloved wife of Murray. Cherished sister-in-law of Rosalyn and Albert Meisler. Devoted aunt of Laura, Janice, Rachel and Melissa. Her many friends and relatives in Belgium, France and the United States will 
 POOR--Anne Benson, 87, of Pine Knoll Shores, NC, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died Saturday, September 4, 2004, at Carteret General Hospital in Morehead City, NC. Mrs. Poor spent most of her life in Ridgewood, NJ and was a member of the Westside Presbyterian Church in Ridgewood. She was the b
 UCKO--Helen, 95, of NYC, on September 3, 2004. She will be ever cherished by son Tom and wife Claire; son David and wife Barbara; daughterin-law Danelle McCafferty; grandchildren Fuschia, Amy, Daniel, Kori, Aaron; brother Joe Hauser; nephew Steve; niece Gitta Mottes.       
 ZUCKER--Ruth. Died on September 4, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Arthur, fantastic mother of Leslie and Nancy, sons-in-law Jimmy and Dennis, adoring grandmother to Peter, Hilary, Debra, Larry, Jeffrey, Marcie, Samantha, Spencer, Andrew, Jaime and loving great-grandmother to Alex, Spencer, 
 ABBETT--Ruth Virginia ''Ginny.'' Passed away on Sunday, September 5, 2004. Survived by her devoted nieces Gloria Bloomer and Jean Willard Foss. Interment will be private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Cabrini Hospice, 227 East 19th St., New York, NY 10003.       
 BERKOWITZ -- Sabine. Sur vived by son Albert Baumgarten. Funeral Wednesday September 8, 1 PM at Plaza Memorial Chapels. BERKOWITZ -- Sabine. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of our member Sabine Berkowitz. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and
 BERLINGER--Rhonie Hofheimer, peacefully at home on August 31, 2004 after 89 vigorous years. Loving and beloved wife of the late George F. Berlinger. Devoted mother of Nancy Klee Stone & Mary Ellen Klee. Admiring mother-in-law of Bob Stone. Dear sister of Marion H. Levy & the late Lt. Lester
 FRIEDLAND--Cynthia Blau, on September 6, of cancer. Her life was dedicated to music, family and friends. She worked with lifelong friend Lainie Kazan; produced the music TV program, Night Flight and was VP, Scene Int'l. Survived by daughter Lilah, partner John Keese, and Stephen Friedland. 
 FROELICH -- Denise McN. September 5, 2004. Beloved wife of Robert L. Froelich, adored mother of Corina Lea and Emma Elizabeth Baumann Froelich, Cecilia Froelich Moss and Helen Froelich Plummer. Funeral Mass Thursday, September 9, 10:00 AM, The Church of St. Thomas More, 65 East 89 St. In li
 GRODY -- Jeannette (nee Kessler), of Pearl River, NY on September 7, 2004. She lived to be 100. She was a devoted mother, loving grandmother and great grandmother. Mrs. Grody was a former teacher for the New York City Public School System. She is survived by Ruth Hamer of Pearl River and Do
 KAPLAN--Dorothy, 87. Beloved wife of the late Seymour, loving mother of Natalie Roberts and Mark Kaplan (deceased), adored grandmother of five and greatgrandmother of eleven. She was a strong and courageous example in our lives. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Bosler Humane Socie
 KAPNICK--Sylvia (Syd). Died at age 84 on September 3, 2004. Beloved wife and dearest friend of Oscar Kapnick. Devoted and loving mother of Steven Kapnick, the late JoAnne Kapnick and the late Susan Kapnick Bart. Devoted and loving mother-in-law of Joan Kapnick and Jacob Bart. Adored and che
 KELLOGG--Marion S. Entered into eternal rest Saturday, August 14, 2004, at age 84. Ms. Kellogg was born June 15, 1920 in Rochester, N.Y., the daughter of the late Howard and Stella (nee Dengler) Kellogg. She leaves her cousin, Dorothy (Sanders) McGee of Longport, N.J. Marion retired as the 
 McCONAUGHEY -- Barbara (Holmes). Of Tenafly, NJ, on September 3, 2004, age 66. Beloved wife of Robert C., loving mother of Chris and his wife Martha, Laurie Leonard and her husband Mike, and Lynn and her fiance Dan Rosen; cherished grandmother of Molly, Cara, Megan and Duncan McConaughey an
 SESKIS--Eleanor. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and long-time member, Eleanor Seskis. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 SHIRLEY -- Betsy Beinecke died peacefully on September 4, 2004 at her home in Bernardsville, New Jersey. She lived in Bernardsville for more than sixty years and spent her summers on Islesboro, Maine. She was a renowned collector of children's Americana. Her collection includes first editio
 SLESINGER -- Helen. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of our member Helen Slesinger. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 TIERNEY--Dr. Loren. Age 42, died Wednesday, at Calvary Hospital after a long illness. A Rutgers and SUNY Downstate Medical School graduate, she served as Chief Medical Resident, Pulmonary Fellow and Clinical Instructor at NYU/Bellevue for 13 years. She was revered by her patients and widely
 WEISS--Mildred (Millie). The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club Inc in Boca Raton, Florida record with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Millie Weiss on September 5, 2004 in Munster, Indiana. Our deepest sympathies go to her husband Marvin (Mickey) and all of her
 ZICARI -- Elizabeth ''Beth'' Florance. Native of Australia, of NYC and Bayville on September 6, 2004. Beloved wife of Michael. Loving mother of MacLeod. Cherished sister of Bruce Florance, Shona Lorigan, Kirsten Winlaw. Dear daugher-in-law of Nicholas V. and Anne Marie Zicari. Fond sister-i
 Ilona Marton, an award-winning journalist who was imprisoned for her coverage of events leading up to the Hungarian uprising of 1956, died Saturday at her home in Silver Spring, Md. She was 92. The cause was heart failure, her daughter, Kati Marton, said. With her husband, D
 BERLINGER--Mrs. George F. (Rhonie). One of the most ardent and devoted members of the Alzheimer's Association family. A mentor to Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, devoted Rita Hayworth Gala Steering Committee member for more than 19 years, and distinguished member of the Alzheimer's Association Na
 BRAUN--Margaret. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Devoted mother of the late Steven. Survived by her beloved sister and brother-in-law, Stefanie and Jack Gabel, and her nieces and nephews. Services will be held Thursday, September 9th at 12:00 P.M., Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Bl
 MONDSCHEIN--Rita (Gerad). Beloved wife of Morris. Adored mother of Daniel G. and Warren H. Cherished daughter of Rose and daughter-in-law of Rose Mondschein. Sister of Sigfried and Vera Gerad. Brave and courageous survivor of The Holocaust and a 30 year battle with cancer. In lieu of flower
 O'NEIL -- Anne Josephine Murray. 79, died September 3, 2004. A native of New York, Anne grew up between Brooklyn, Manhattan and Southampton, NY. She attended Manhattanville College and graduated with the class of 1946. Anne is survived by her husband of 51 years, Ralph Michael O'Neil, her 7
 SHELKIN--Lisa B., 43, of Old Tappan, NJ, formerly Demarast, NJ on Wednesday, September 8, 2004. She is survived by her husband Philip Lenger, her son Sam, her mother Muriel, grandmother Tillie, her two brothers Scott and Chris, and her three nieces. She had been Managing Editor of ''Self,''
 ACKERMAN -- Nancy, 73, passed away peacefully on September 9 at her home in Metuchen, N.J. She was the devoted wife of Bernard, loving mother of Terri, Sandra, and Howard, adoring grandmother of Lionel, Jesse, and Jackie, loving sister of Robert and sister-in-law Carol, and devoted to Jenny
 BIRDSALL--Leone Cottrell, M.D. Age 94, died on September 8, 2004. Dr. Cottrell was a Pediatrician and Child Psychiatrist, a member of The New York Embroiderers Guild, The Society of Women Geographers and a Life Member of The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Predeceased by her husband, Charles H.
 D'ARCANGELO -- Marjorie Elizabeth (Foster) of Mamaroneck, NY, on September 8, 2004 at age 86. Marjorie was born in Newark, NJ on June 2, 1918 to James Edwin and Elizabeth Lavigna (Evans) Foster. Marjorie received a Bachelor of Science degree from New York University in 1942. On October 20, 
 HARTMAN--Esther Kelly Bill. Died on September 1, 2004 in Lyme, CT. She was born on September 29, 1923, in New Rochelle, NY, the daughter of the late James Raymond and Esther Elizabeth Kelly Bill. She attended the Thorton Donovan School and Rye Country Day School. In 1945, she graduated with
 LINDEMANN -- Beatrice R. Died September 8 in Palm Beach at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Loving mother of Donna and the late Steve. Adoring grandmother of Trisha and David, Eric and Trish, and Ariana and great grandmother of Rebecca, Jordan, Tyler and Casey. She will always be in o
 SANDS--Barbara R. On September 9, 2004 in Albany, NY. Born in NYC, she was an Albany area resident the last 15 years. She received her Master's in Social Work from the State University of NY at Albany. She had been employed as a Prevention Social Worker for the Parson's Child and Family Cen
 UMANOFF--Rose, 85 years old of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Died on September 3. Loving mother of Jane and Dan. Devoted grandmother of Becky, Lila, Zak and Nicole. Adoring great-grandmother of Max and dear mother-in-law of Bo. Rose was a positive, enthusiastic and youthful presence with her famil
 ARONSTEIN -- Jacqueline Bluestone, of Port Washington, NY, died on September 9, ten days after her 69th birthday, at her son's home in Northampton, MA. She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Richard, her sons Steven and Jonathan, and beloved grandson Noah. She was a psychologist in the
 EMMANUEL--Hanna Mathilde. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 HUGHES-CAMM--Jean Frances, 34, died September 8, 2004, after a courageous battle with Hodgkins disease, at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. Jean grew up in the Bronx, attended Monsignor Scanlan High School and the State University at Albany, where she graduated in 1991. Je
 SVIRIDOFF--Doris. 85, beloved wife of the late Mitchell Sviridoff, died peacefully on September 8, 2004. In recent years, she divided her time among New York City, Martha's Vineyard and Los Angeles. She is survived by her daughters Karen Segal of Los Angeles and Michele Sviridoff of New Yor
 ARONSTEIN -- Jacqueline Bluestone, of Port Washington, NY, died on September 9, ten days after her 69th birthday, at her son's home in Northampton, MA. She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Richard, her sons Steven and Jonathan, and beloved grandson Noah. She was a psychologist in the
 BIRDSALL--Leone Cottrell, M.D. Age 94, died on September 8, 2004. Dr. Cottrell was a Pediatrician and Child Psychiatrist, a member of The New York Embroiderers Guild, The Society of Women Geographers and a Life Member of The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Predeceased by her husband, Charles H.
 FOGEL--Ray. 92, died September 10, 2004. Loving wife to Eli. Beloved mother of Peter, Kenneth and Jill. Grandmother to Leah and William. She will always be in our hearts.       
 FRIEDLAND--Cynthia Blau, on September 6, of cancer. Her life was dedicated to music, family and friends. She worked with lifelong friend Lainie Kazan; produced the music TV program, Night Flight and was VP, Scene Int'l. Survived by daughter Lilah, partner John Keese, and Stephen Friedland. 
 GOIDELL -- Paula Karmiel, died on August 23, 2004, in Boynton Beach, Florida, after her courageous battle with recurrent meningiomas. A talented interior designer, Paula was a lover of theatre, opera, museums, music, travel and life. She will be greatly missed by her family and a huge legio
 GOLDMAN--Caryl-Robin, on September 5th, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Jack and Fay Goldman. Loving sister of Joyce Goldman Weiner and sister-in-law of Dennis Weiner. Dear aunt to Jacqueline Goldman Weiner. Survived by her cherished pet, Coco. Private services were held.       
 KELLOGG--Marion S. Entered into eternal rest Saturday, August 14, 2004, at age 84. Ms. Kellogg was born June 15, 1920 in Rochester, N.Y., the daughter of the late Howard and Stella (nee Dengler) Kellogg. She leaves her cousin, Dorothy (Sanders) McGee of Longport, N.J. Marion retired as the 
 TIERNEY--Loren. Our deepest condolences to the family of our beloved friend, Loren Tierney. She was stolen from everyone she loved and who loved her despite her courageous battle against breast cancer. Even in the very end she showed us how beautiful life is. Her loving friends, Eva Kosta, 
 WADSWORTH--Virginia Higginson, 74, of Cambridge, died Tuesday, August 31. She attended The Windsor School and graduated from Miss Porter's School in 1948. She graduated from Boston University in 1972, and earned an MS from Lesley College in 1973. From 1980 to 1992, Virginia was the co-owner
 ZEICHNER--Rita Mae (nee Silverberg). 76, passed away on Tuesday, August 24, 2004 at her residence on the island of Nevis in the West Indies. She formerly resided in New Haven, CT Washington, DC, San Francisco, CA, Vancouver, BC, Tucson and Paradise Valley, AZ. She is survived by her sons Ad
 ZOUSMER--Helen. 89, of Chicago, formerly of NYC and West Palm Beach, FL. Predeceased by her husband Perry and a daughter Jane. Lovingly survived by her son Arnold (Michele), daughter Rochelle Share; grandchildren Joanna, Alexandra and Max. Graveside service is at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farm
 Jessie V. Stone, a philanthropist who was the widow of W. Clement Stone, the insurance magnate known for his optimistic books and speeches on success, died on Sept. 3 at her home in Winnetka, Ill. She was 100. Mrs. Stone's death, exactly two years after her husband's, was announced 
 di BELARDINO--Constance. 89, passed away Saturday night, 11 September 2004, after several weeks of declining health. She is survived by her two sons, Mario Belardino of Larchmont, New York, and Philip di Belardino of New York City, her daughter-inlaw, Susan Belardino and her two grandsons, 
 GOIDELL -- Paula Karmiel, died on August 23, 2004, in Boynton Beach, Florida, after her courageous battle with recurrent meningiomas. A talented interior designer, Paula was a lover of theatre, opera, museums, music, travel and life. She will be greatly missed by her family and a huge legio
 GREENSTEIN -- Libby. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Blanche and Herman. Loving sister of Alex Molk. Cofounder, with Ben, of Daher, Inc. Libby lit up every room she ever walked into, and made everyone's life more fun. The memories of her indominatable spirit wil
 MAYER--Sylvia. 91, of Great Neck, NY. Passed away peacefully September 11, 2004. A strong and wonderful person. Caring wife, best friend and partner of husband Cyrus, who recently passed away. Devoted and beloved mother of Michael and Carole, Chester and Kathy, Amy and Alan Goodstein. Belov
 SCHACHT -- Claire Barban Bleiberg. 82, died peacefully in her sleep after a long illness at the home of her daughter. She was pleased with her life and her choices, proud of her family, and grateful for the devotion of her friends. She was a beautiful, vital, generous and outspoken person w
 TEIG--Annika Helene, 33, architect. Died Friday, September 10, in New York from acute leukemia. Born August 29, 1971, in Oslo, Norway. Annika studied and practiced architecture in Norway and Berlin; then in New York at Columbia and SOM. Also an entrepreneur, musician, leader, writer, design
 BACHRACH--Marjorie Baker, on Saturday September 11, 2004, after a long illness, at age 71. Beloved wife of the late Robert Lee Bachrach. Adored mother of Jeff and the late Clifford Lee Bachrach. Treasured sister of Deborah and Robert W. Bloch. Loving mother-in-law of Stacey Roth Bachrach an
 CLAUS--Ruby M. Carlsbad, CA. Died on September 12, 2004 at Scripps Hospital in Encinitas California after a brief illness. She was 93 years of age. A long time resident of Chappaqua, NY, Mrs. Claus was the wife of Carl Claus (deceased) for 66 years. She was the daughter of the late Orton H.
 GREENSTEIN -- Libby. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Blanche and Herman. Loving sister of Alex Molk. Cofounder, with Ben, of Daher, Inc. Libby lit up every room she ever walked into, and made everyone's life more fun. The memories of her indominatable spirit wil
 PLUM--Rhoda. The members of Scarsdale SynagogueTremont Temple mourn the death of Rhoda Plum, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Aaron, their children, Ellen and Bernard, and all her grandchildren and extended family. Stephen A. Klein, R
 ROGERS--Sally of Greenwich, CT, formerly of Dobbs Ferry on September 12, 2004. Survived by her husband Jo, son David, daughter Sarah, and brother Ward Doonan. Visiting Tuesday (today) 7-9 PM Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue (exit 17 Saw Mill), Dobbs Ferry, New York. Funeral on
 STOLLER--Shirley (Tucker), 79, of Hollywood, FL, died on September 9, 2004. She is survived by her family Marcia, Bruce, Alexis and Jarrett Kern. She was greatly loved and will be missed.       
 BACHRACH--Marjorie Baker, on Saturday September 11, 2004, after a long illness, at age 71. Beloved wife of the late Robert Lee Bachrach. Adored mother of Jeff and the late Clifford Lee Bachrach. Cherished daughter of the late Florence and J. Harold Garfunkel. Treasured sister of Deborah and
 CURTIN -- Bernadette Mur phy. Bernadette, or Murph as you probably knew her has lost her heroic fight against her mortal enemy, the disease known as Multiple Sclerosis. Just as she wished her tired and tortured body has been turned over to the medical scientists in their fight against this 
 DOUNCE--Dr. Eileen DeGregorio, 51, Psychologist, died of hereditary Gastric Cancer on September 11, 2004. Dr. Eileen DeGregorio Dounce was born in Lausanne, Switzerland on April 13, 1953 to Dr. William and Mrs. Edna DeGregorio. She received her B.S. from Fairfield University in 1975 and her
 EISENBUD--Ruth-Jean. Age 91. Loved wife of Leonard, mother of David, mother-inlaw of Monika, grandma of Daniel and Alina, great grandma of Shannon, sister of Annette Rubinstein. Professor at NYU and Adelphi, psychoanalyst whose work was radiant with poetry and use of dreams. EISENBU
 GOLDSTEIN--Hope Perry of New York and Chicago on September 14th in New York at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Alfred Goldstein, dedicated mother of Mark and Robert and daughter-in-law Stephanie (nee Levinson), adoring g
 GRAHAM--Julie, 56, of Brooklyn, N.Y., died September 12. A passionate artist, graphic designer and devoted teacher, she colored the lives of her family and friends with her wit, strength and friendship. She is survived by her husband Stephen Truslow, her son Eric, and a loving circle of fam
 MULLER--Ethel on September 2, 2004 of lung cancer. Wife of the late Larry Muller, sister of Bella, Carl and David Dorfman. She was loved by many and will be missed by all. Memorial service Saturday October 2 at 11 AM at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, Ne
 SNYDER--Joan D. On September 9, after a long battle with diabetes. Described by Dan Rather as ''A pioneering reporter who opened new opportunities for women at CBS News.'' Joan spent 30 years at CBS as a writer, producer and reporter, always fighting for the underdog. She later worked for t
 WAGNER--Julia A. Of New York City, N.Y. Passed from this life on September 13, 2004 at the age of 80. She was a native of Alexandria, VA., born there on February 15, 1924 to the late Luigi and Domenica Coppa. She is a graduate of George Washington High School and George Washington Universit
 COHEN--Lucille, 86, of Wyckoff, NJ, on September 14, 2004. Predeceased by her husband Bertram Irving in 1996. Survived by her sons, John and Valerie Tritt, Michael and Sherrie Tritt, daughter Bonnie and Stephen Wener, brother Paul Green, six grandchildren, Beth Shulman, Jimmy Wener, Matthew
 MOTTRAM -- Elizabeth. Of New York City died at home after a long illness on September 12, 2004. Beloved daughter of Dorothy Mottram, sister to John and Margaret, and friend of countless others, Elizabeth was brilliant, funny, talented, beautiful, and a joy to be with every day of her life. 
 OGILVY--Melinda Graeme. Died September 1 at home after a valiant battle with cancer in Old Greenwich, CT. The daughter of the late Florence Prince and George Levick Street, Jr. She was born on July 16, 1919 in Richmond, VA. She attended St. Catharine's School, then studied voice at Juilliar
 Rose Gacioch, an outstanding outfielder and pitcher in the heyday of women's professional baseball who became a mainstay of the Rockford Peaches team later featured in the movie ''A League of Their Own,'' died last Thursday at a nursing home in Clinton Township, Mich. She was 89. He
 COLEMAN - TOLMACH -- Dor othy (nee Lefkofsky) of Brooklyn, on Wednesday September 15, 2004 after a short illness at age 90. She was the wife of the late Samuel Tolmach and the late Gerald Coleman, father of William Coleman, (Marjorie), grandmother of Rebekah and Sarah Coleman. Dorothy was b
 DAVID--Else. Died peacefully September 14th at age 101. Beloved cousin of Ernest W. and Amy Michel and family, Lotte Rein and families, Israel. Widow of Cantor Arthur David. Wonderful friend, Holocaust survivor, longtime volunteer, active in her Synagogue who named Golden Age Club in her ho
 FELTON--Doris. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Floor announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend Doris Felton and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband and our esteemed member Hon. Murray B. Felton and their fami
 GOFFEN--Rona, died September 8, 2004. Her family mourns the passing of Rona Goffen of Princeton, NJ, noted art historian and Board of Governors Professor at Rutgers University. Her enthusiasm and expertise in the Renaissance inspired all who knew her. Memorial service will be held November 
 OGILVY--Melinda Graeme. Died September 1 at home after a valiant battle with cancer in Old Greenwich, CT. The daughter of the late Florence Prince and George Levick Street, Jr. She was born on July 16, 1919 in Richmond, VA. She attended St. Catharine's School, then studied voice at Juilliar
 SIMON--Margit Loepert. At the age of 81. Beloved wife of Peter, Sr. for over 61 years. Loving mother of Peter, Jr., and mother-in-law of Ellen. Adored grandmother of Jennifer. Dear sister of Helga Rosenberger. Devoted sisterin-law of Ellen Simon Marks, and aunt of Bob Simon, and Lynn Edelst
 FALK--Audrey. September 16th, in Oklahoma. Born 1929 in London; she lived in New York, Honolulu, and Lawton, Oklahoma. In New York, she volunteered for the Actors' Fund as a ''buddy'' to performers dying of HIV/AIDS. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Lee Falk; children, Willy Falk and Cat
 FEIL--Rica Gold, beloved wife of Isidore and mother of Margot Feil Stein. She will be greatly missed by son-in-law Bart Stein, grandchildren Elisa Rapaport and Michael Schoenbaum, Fred and Lori Rapaport, great-grandchildren Yael, Natan and Jared. Resident of Mamaroneck, New York, and Palm B
 FEINBERG--Lillian. Age 96, (nee Farber), AKA ''Gona'' and ''Grandmere'', the last of the seven Farber children, wife for nearly 70 years of the late Abraham Feinberg and mother of the late Richard Feinberg MD, died Friday at her home. Mom, everyone who knew you loved you and felt loved by y
 FELTON--Doris Joyce. Of Great Neck, NY and Boca Raton, FL, passed away on September 17, 2004. Born on December 9, 1919 and raised in Brooklyn, NY to Judge Phillip and Tabby Simon. Simple words cannot express the void to her beloved family and so many friends. Doris is survived by her husban
 JAFFE--Vita Sandra. March 5, 1923,--September 16, 2004, New York City. Vita is survived by her loving and devoted husband, Matthew, of 46 years; her beloved children, Dana, Byron and Robert; endearing grandchildren, Benjamin, Hannah, and Nathaniel; adoring daughters-inlaw, Kendra, Beth, and
 SUCHIN--Ernestine ''Ernie'' of Scotch Plains, N.J. Daughter of Joseph and Julia Mutnick, passed away peacefully on Monday, September 13, 2004 in her home surrounded by her family, friends and pets. She worked for many years as a realtor in Scarsdale, N.Y. and Westfield, N.J. In addition to 
 WIESEN--Mae (nee Halperin). Died Friday, September 17 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. Loving mother of the late Dorothy Sokolski and David Wiesen, PhD. Loving grandmother of Pearl, Joy, Rachel, Seth and Jonathan. Motherin-law of Ellen Wiesen. Sister of Berenice Adams. De
 Virginia Hamilton Adair, a California poet who published her first collection, ''Ants on the Melon,'' when she was 83, died on Thursday in Claremont, Calif., her daughter, Katharine Adair Waugh, said. She was 91 and lived in Claremont. Published by Random House in 1996, ''Ants on th
 Margaret Kelly, a proper Irishwoman better known as Miss Bluebell who founded the Bluebell Girls, the long-stemmed, high-kicking, slightly clad troupe considered the most glamorous chorus line in Paris and perhaps the world, died in her sleep on Sept. 11 at her home in Paris, her son Patric
 BENVENISTE -- Jaye. 87, passed away peacefully at home on September 17, 2004. She successfully battled pancreatic cancer for many years. She will be forever in the hearts and souls of her loving nephews Stuart Shikiar and Albert Shikiar, her greatnephews Samuel Max Shikiar and David Shikiar
 BOBERG--Regina L., age 92, of Urbana died on Wednesday, September 15, 2004. She was born January 29, 1912 in Pittsburgh, PA to August and Magdalena (Farbacher) Eichner. She is survived by her daughter Therese (Edward) Young of Urbana; son Edward (Phyllis) Boberg of London, OH. Preceded in d
 COLEMAN - TOLMACH -- Dor othy (nee Lefkofsky) of Brooklyn, on Wednesday September 15, 2004 after a short illness at age 90. She was the wife of the late Samuel Tolmach and the late Gerald Coleman, father of William Coleman, (Marjorie), grandmother of Rebekah and Sarah Coleman. Dorothy was b
 DEIXEL--Vardon, at age 88, on September 13, 2004. Beloved husband and best friend of Helen for 57 years. Cherished father of Deborah and her husband William Blumberg. Adored grandfather of Andrew and Emily Blumberg. Dear brother of Donald. Memorial Service on Sunday October 17 at 3pm at Bou
 FALK--Audrey. September 16th, in Oklahoma. Born 1929 in London; she lived in New York, Honolulu, and Lawton, Oklahoma. In New York, she volunteered for the Actors' Fund as a ''buddy'' to performers dying of HIV/AIDS. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Lee Falk; children, Willy Falk and Cat
 FEINBERG--Lillian. Age 96, (nee Farber), AKA ''Gona'' and ''Grandmere'', the last of the seven Farber children, wife for nearly 70 years of the late Abraham Feinberg and mother of the late Richard Feinberg MD, died Friday at her home. Mom, everyone who knew you loved you and felt loved by y
 FELTON--Doris. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the loss of Doris Felton. A wonderful lady and like our second Mom. She shall be greatly missed. Ellie and Martin Lifton FELTON--Doris. We share a deep sorrow for the loss of a great lady. We will always remember her warmth, humor
 GOLDBERG--Ellen Xandria. Passed away September 18. She was 58 years old. Beloved mother of Laura Goldberg Ortiz and Julie Goldberg. Loving grandmother of Drew and Jordan Ortiz. Cherished sister of Richard Ivan Gussaroff. Daughter of the late Jennie Ehrlich Gussaroff and George Gussaroff. De
 JOSEPH--Ethyl Berman, died September 10, 2004. Loving wife of the late Dan, mother of the late Dana. All who knew her in Rutherford, Southbury and Old Tappan will miss her. Her daughter, Leslie Stewart of Piermont, NY, and granddaughter, Deborah Feinberg of Silver Spring, MD, wish to have h
 SIMON--Margit Loepert. At the age of 81. Beloved wife of Peter, Sr. for over 61 years. Loving mother of Peter, Jr., and mother-in-law of Ellen. Adored grandmother of Jennifer. Dear sister of Helga Rosenberger. Devoted sisterin-law of Ellen Simon Marks, and aunt of Bob Simon, and Lynn Edelst
 SUCHIN--Ernestine ''Ernie'' of Scotch Plains, N.J. Daughter of Joseph and Julia Mutnick, passed away peacefully on Monday, September 13, 2004 in her home surrounded by her family, friends and pets. She worked for many years as a realtor in Scarsdale, N.Y. and Westfield, N.J. In addition to 
 WIESEN--Mae (nee Halperin). Died Friday, September 17 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. Loving mother of the late Dorothy Sokolski and David Wiesen, PhD. Loving grandmother of Pearl, Joy, Rachel, Seth and Jonathan. Motherin-law of Ellen Wiesen. Sister of Berenice Adams. De
 Rona Goffen, a historian of Medieval and Renaissance art, died on Sept. 8 in Princeton, N.J. She was 60 and lived in Princeton. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Lucy Fremont, a cousin. Professor Goffen's method paid careful attention to the social and economic context surr
 Elly Annie Schneider, who was known for many years in the circus world and on the big screen as Tiny Earles, then Tiny Doll, and who played one of the Munchkins in ''The Wizard of Oz,'' died here on Sept. 6. She was 90. Her death was reported by Marlene Grunewald, a longtime friend 
 ANCHIN--Frances E. (nee Steinberg). On September 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted and loving mother of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandmother of Donald Strasburg, Lauren and Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great-grandmothe
 BENVENISTE -- Jaye. 87, passed away peacefully at home on September 17, 2004. She successfully battled pancreatic cancer for many years. She will be forever in the hearts and souls of her loving nephews Stuart Shikiar and Albert Shikiar, her greatnephews Samuel Max Shikiar and David Shikiar
 GELLERT--Edith T. 94. Beloved wife of the late Percy G. Gellert, cherished mother of Marcia and Harold Debrovner, adored grandmother of Ilene and Mark, Robert and Mirka, and Gail, doting great-grandmother of Pamela, Caroline and Julia, she will be missed by many.       
 URSO--Ruth (Tarlow). Of Clearbrook, Monroe Township, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn and Massapequa), on Friday, September 17, 2004, age 94. Predeceased by her cherished husband Paul Urso. Survived by her beloved sister, Julia Hilfer, nephews, nieces and friends. For information, A.S. Cole Funeral
 ANCHIN--Frances E. (nee Steinberg). On September 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted and loving mother of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandmother of Donald Strasburg, Lauren and Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great-grandmothe
 BEER--Cynthia Ann. Of Orient and New York City on September 15, 2004. Devoted partner of Jane Llewelyn Smith. Beloved sister of Peter Beer and aunt of Dana, Ken and Kim. For forty years, a memorable teacher at City and Country School, she will be remembered by her students and missed by her
 CARR--Dr. Elizabeth M. The Department of Dermatology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center and Kings County Hospital Center profoundly regrets the passing of our beloved faculty member, attending physician and dear friend, Dr. Elizabeth M. Carr. Dr. Carr was a superb physician who was dedicated 
 DAVID--Else. We mourn the passing of an extraordinary woman of valor who devoted her life to the needs of the Jewish people worldwide. A Diamond Founder of the Hospital and a generous supporter of the Jesselson Heart Center and the Woman & Infant Center, she was a righteous woman who person
 FELTON--Doris. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Doris Felton, who with her beloved husband Murray were longtime ADL leaders and supporters on Long Island, NY and in Boca West in Florida. We extend our sincerest condolences to Murray, their children and the entire family. Barb
 GOLDBERG--Deborah. Died on September 19, 2004, age 90. Her friends and family shared a great celebration on her 90th birthday. Dear sister of the late Leon and Norman. Loving aunt and great aunt and wonderful friend and coworker to all the staff at Cuyler & Company. She loved opera, theatre
 RAPHAEL--Lucille Natalie. Born February 20, 1922 died September 11, 2004. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear mother who valiantly lost her fight to cancer. She will be sorely missed by her daughter Joanne, her two sons Stephen and Mark, their wives Marjorie and Deabi
 TOLINS--Florence Jiler ''Peggy.'' Memorial services were held on Monday at 4 P.M. at Leevy's Funeral Home, in Columbia, SC. Ms. Tolins, wife of Dr. Stephen H. Tolins, died Sunday in Columbia, SC. She was a journalist at The Bridgeport News, and was also a physical therapist. She is survived
 ANCHIN--Frances E. (nee Steinberg). On September 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted and loving mother of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandmother of Donald Strasburg, Lauren and Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great-grandmothe
 COHEN--Miriam R. Of Palm Beach, FL passed away September 21, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Edward F. Cohen, devoted mother of Arlene Farkas and Ken Sidel and Gail and Charles Rubinger, cherished grandmother of Matthew and Jessica Farkas, Carolyn and Jay Bloom and Elizabeth Rubinger, greatg
 DAGATI -- Margaret. Died September 19, 2004 at 15 Wolcott Hill Road, Camden, New York. She was born January 27, 1927 in Long Island, the daughter of George and Nancy Mancini Dagati. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please contact The Rome DDSO, collect 315-336-2300 with an
 DEUTSCH--Freda Smukler, born April 5, 1915, in Bialystok, Poland, passed away peacefully in Los Angeles on September 20. Dedicated wife to radiologist Irvin (died 1997), and loving mother and grandmother, she is survived by her children, Diane Thome, Nina Deutsch, Laurence Deutsch, and Mona
 FEINBERG -- Lillian. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, who with her late husband, Abraham, established a professorial chair in schizophrenia research in memory of their son, Dr. E. Richard Feinberg, a child psychi
 GOLDBERG--Marshall. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Shifra Y. Goldberg. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 GOLDEN--Rebecca, passed away on September 20, 2004. She was the devoted wife of Mortimer. Loving mother of Suzanne & Barbara. Beloved grandmother of Russell. Services scheduled today at 12PM at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Lecount Place, New Rochelle, New York. Interment will follow
 PEARL--Lillian. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Lillian Pearl. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Alan and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 TRUE--Gerry Kaplan. Manhattan artist and textile designer, died in Berkeley, CA September 19. She is survived by her children Lisa True and Merlyn Messenger.       
 ZIMROTH--Ruth, age 85, died September 20, 2004, in Bridgeport, CT. She is survived by her beloved husband, Sol Zimroth, and her children, Alice Kelly and her husband, George, Peter Zimroth and his wife, Estelle Parsons; grandchildren, David, Matthew, Rachel & Abraham; brother & sisters, Dav
 GOTTSCHALK -- Paula. 59, passed away September 21, 2004 following years of battling recurrent, progressive brain tumors. She worked in a variety of positions with CBS Radio and CBS Inc. from 1971 through 1982, most notably as Vice President, Corporate Information, CBS Inc., from 1979 throug
 ROSKIN--Susan LeVant, died September 21, 2004. With enduring love and affection we bid a fond adieu to Susan LeVant Roskin. No words can ever express how much she will be missed. Susan lived a full life with courage and dignity. She devoted herself to helping others as a professional guidan
 BIEN--Harriet Honigsberg, 99, wife of Adolph Bien, died in Hanover, NH. Formerly of Sunnyside and Manhattan, she is survived by son, Peter Bien, and daughter, Alice Buseck, seven grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.       
 CAVANEY--Victoria. Property Management Entrepreneur. Victoria Cavaney, 60, who owned and managed real estate in California, Northern Virginia and Hawaii, died Thursday in Inova Fairfax Hospital after suffering a stroke. She was the wife of Red Cavaney, President of the American Petroleum In
 COMSTOCK--Charlotte Toppin, of Palm City, Florida died on September 21, 2004 at the age of 86. She formerly resided in Stuart, FL and Essex, CT and was the wife of the late Peter Harwood Comstock. She is survived by four daughters, Marcia Ann Littel, Barbara Comstock Ronshagen, Constance C.
 DEUTSCH--Freda. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our long time member, Freda Deutsch, widow of the late Dr. Irvin Deutsch. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her children, Diane Thome, Nina Deutsch, Laurence Deutsch, Mona Miller and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D.
 EMERSON--Gloria. In her own words ''an award winning journalist and author who wrote about the war in Vietnam.'' Friends will remember her September 29, from 6:00 to 8 P.M. in the Religious Society of Friends Meeting House, 15 Rutherford Place, Stuyvesant Square, with respect and affection 
 FEINBERG -- Lillian. The Board of Trustees and staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc., the support organization for Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, are deeply saddened by the loss of Mrs. Lillian Feinberg. Together with her husband Abraham, they established the Dr. E. 
 GOLDBERG -- Maurice. 97, died Wednesday. Beloved husband of Lillian and the late Beatrice. Cherished father of Ann and her husband Len Hittner and Karen Goldberg. Devoted step-father of Howard and Fran Berger and Joel and Barbara Berger. Adored grandfather of five grandchildren and five ste
 HEWITT--Adrienne Deere, of Middleburg, VA died on Saturday, September 18, 2004. She was the beloved wife of R. Carey Beer, loving mother of Alexander, Adrianna and Patrick Beer and daughter of the late Ambassador William A. Hewitt and the late Mrs. Patricia W. Hewitt. A memorial service wil
 LINDSAY--Elizabeth Austin, May 15, 1923-September 13, 2004. Libby dedicated her life to children, teaching at Potomac School, McLean, VA: East Woods School, Oyster Bay, NY; and serving as Director of the East Harlem Tutorial Program, NYC. Her joie de vivre will be missed by her four childre
 LINGLE--Laura. On September 21, 2004. A lifelong resident of New York, she graduated from the Lenox School and from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina. She is survived by a sister, Mrs. Jean Johnson of Pompano Beach, FL.       
 MILLER--Irma. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Irma Miller. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 SLOTE--Ann Kleban. September 22, 2004. Wife of the late Bernard Neuman and Arthur D. Slote. Mother of Elizabeth and her husband, Ejlat Feuer, Nancy and her husband, Michael Slote-Danko, and the late James. Sister of Janet and her husband, Josiah Schneider, and grandmother of six. Valued tea
 Franoise Sagan, the rebellious French writer who achieved fame as a teenager with her first novel, ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' a precocious tale of sexual disillusionment, but whose international reputation dimmed as literary tastes changed, died yesterday in Honfleur, in northern France. She 
 BIEN--Harriet Honigsberg, 99, wife of Adolph Bien, died in Hanover, NH. Formerly of Sunnyside and Manhattan, she is survived by son, Peter Bien, and daughter, Alice Buseck, seven grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.       
 BOOCOCK--Glenn Winnett, 95, died peacefully at home in Santa Fe, NM on September 23rd, 2004. Born in Santa Monica, California, ''Dougie'' was the daughter of P.G. Winnett and Helen Hutton Winnett. Her husband, Kenyon, died in 1961. She was a graduate of the Marlborough School in Los Angeles
 MARCUS--Carol (nee Sackheim) of Purchase, NY on September 22, 2004. Cherished wife of Steven. Loving mother of Ari and Kim, Belinda and Tony. Adoring grandmother of Madeline Sarah. Devoted sister of Harvey (Judy) Sackheim and Thelma Lindner. Proud aunt to all her nieces and nephews. An educ
 BERGER--Maxine Miriam. Of Virginia Beach, VA, and Palm Beach, FL. Born in Far Rockaway, NY. Passed away September 23, 2004, at age 84. Daughter of the late David and Bess Goldrich. Pre-deceased by her husband Leslie Berger of 52 years. Maxine is survived by her children Gail Carol Berger an
 BOOCOCK--Glenn Winnett, 95, died peacefully at home in Santa Fe, NM on September 23rd, 2004. Born in Santa Monica, California, ''Dougie'' was the daughter of P.G. Winnett and Helen Hutton Winnett. Her husband, Kenyon, died in 1961. She was a graduate of the Marlborough School in Los Angeles
 GOTTSCHALK -- Paula. 59, passed away September 21, 2004 following years of battling recurrent, progressive brain tumors. She worked in a variety of positions with CBS Radio and CBS Inc. from 1971 through 1982, most notably as Vice President, Corporate Information, CBS Inc., from 1979 throug
 HIRSCH--Roberta (nee Lazarus). On September 24, at age 62. Beloved wife of Jack. Mother of Janet and Josh, and mother-in-law of Dara. Adoring grandmother of Michaela. Passed peacefully at her home after courageously facing cancer. She will be missed dearly by her family and friends who mean
 LEITSTEIN--Shirley. Age 97, of Belvedere, CA., formerly of Yonkers, N.Y., passed away September 21, 2004. Loving wife of the late Jack Leitstein. Beloved mother of Bruce Leitstein, and Alex and Bob Leitstein. Cherished grandmother of Eric and Justin Leitstein, aunt of Richard Mescon and Jan
 MILLER--Irma A., 89, born NY. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Miller and the late Victor Abrams. Devoted and proud mother of Broadway producer Judith Ann Abrams and Salvador Dali protege, photographer Jon Stevens, owner of The Jon Stevens Silver People Gallery. Adoring grandmother of Crista
 PERL--Simone (nee Levy), granddaughter of renowned Captain Alfred Dreyfus, has died in Paris. Mme Perl, Member of the Order of the French Family, an Officer of Arts and Letters, served in the Resistance during World War II. In a final message of farewell, she asked for all to retain the mem
 RICHMAN--Sophie. On September 24. Beloved wife of Jack J. and much adored mother of Myra Schwartz, Dr. Alan Richman and Sandy Greenbaum. Beloved grandmother of Scott Waldman, Dr. Jonathan Waldman, Dr. Jason Greenbaum, Erica Greenbaum, Jessica Richman and Jeremy Schwartz. Loving great grandm
 SHAPIRO--Cecelia. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn and Howard Beach. Died at 87 on September 23, 2004. Brooklyn College Class of 1939. Worked side by side with her beloved husband Joe (deceased) in their deli at Hegeman & Amboy in Brownsville. Enlightened and energetic, she was pr
 STERN--Leila (Eidlin). On September 22, 2004 in her 100th year. Loving wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Marilyn and Joe Dukoff, Hubert and Marilyn Stern and Dr. Richard and Joan Stern. Proud grandmother of Dr. Amy and Helmer Toro, Patricia and Jeffrey Vallon, Wendy Stern, Dr. Peter a
 BLINDER--Debra ''Debbie.'' Age 7, of Las Vegas, died September 24, 2004, in an automobile accident. Survived by loving parents Norman and Dawn Blinder, brother Steven, grandparents David and Laura Blinder, Robert and Arlene Popowcer, and several aunts, uncles and cousins. Her giving spirit 
 HALLWACHS -- Marianne Jenner Marta Ehrenborg. Of Philadelphia, PA, on September 21, 2004. Born April 20, 1914. in Stockholm, Sweden. Cherished wife of the late Robert G. Hallwachs, loving and beloved mother of Marianne J. Charny (Joel) and Winnie Hallwachs (Daniel H. Janzen), devoted grandm
 McDONAGH--Winifred Jane. Passed away in her sleep on Friday, September 24, 2004, in NYC, age 105. An Irish immigrant, born Winifred Tierney in Lisdoonvarna, County Clare, she and her late husband, Francis McDonagh, opened the first Irish tavern in Morningside Heights, the Moylan Tavern, imm
 Annie Herron, an art dealer and curator in the East Village of Manhattan in the early 1980's who opened the first commercial gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, died in the Bronx on Friday. She was 50. The cause was leiomyosarcoma, a rare form of cancer, said a friend and collaborato
 Izora Rhodes Armstead, one half of the disco-pop duo the Weather Girls, who sang the flamboyant and enduring club hit ''It's Raining Men,'' died on Sept. 16 at a hospital in San Leandro, Calif. Her age was unknown. The cause was heart failure, The San Francisco Chronicle reported. T
 Dr. Katharina Dalton, a British gynecologist who did early work establishing a link between fluctuations in the menstrual cycle and changes in behavior and who advocated using progesterone to treat premenstrual syndrome, died on Sept. 17 in Britain, The Associated Press reported. She was 87
 B00C0CK -- Glenn Winnett. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Glenn Winnett Boocock, an Honorary Director and a great friend to our company. ''Dougie'' Boocock was a member of The Metropolitan Opera Board of Directors from 1967 until 1976, when she was elected to The Met's first grou
 BASSER--Suzanne. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Suzanne Basser, beloved mother of Barbara Basser-Bigio, a devoted leader whose dedication to our Women's Executive Circle has sustained our ability to serve those in need. We exte
 BLUMBERG--Estelle, on September 23. Registered Nurse for 50 years at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City. She is survived by her son Philip Blumberg and her daughter Dr. Vickie S. Blumberg.       
 BOOCOCK -- Glenn. The Board of Directors of The Metropolitan Opera Guild mourns the death of its beloved Board member, Glenn Winnett Boocock. Dougie, as she was affectionately known, joined our Board in 1948, and served with great distinction as a Vice President and on our Executive, Member
 GOLDMAN--Debra E. Beloved wife of twenty-three years of Leonard Ellis. Cherished sister of Karen Goldman. Devoted daughter of the late Harold and Min Goldman. Adored daughter-in-law of Kenneth Ellis and the late Phyllis Ellis. Loving sister-inlaw of Andrew Ellis and Emily Segal and bemused 
 KASSAN--Sandra. Of Westport, CT, died Saturday night, September 25, 2004, at her home on her 58th birthday. She is survived by her husband, Alan Kassan, her sons, Matthew and Andrew, three grandchildren Madison, Taylor and Sydney, her brother, Mark, and her sister, Joan. She will be remembe
 LERNER--Lila Stein, 75, died peacefully September 26, 2004. Adored wife of the late Robert Lerner died January 28, 2004. She is survived by her cherished family-daughter Susan and partner Sandy; son David, daughter-in-law Marisa and granddaughter Donielle; daughter Lori; son Andrew; and her
 MARKELL--Marcia R. Died September 27, 2004. Born January 9, 1928 in Boston. Wife of Elliot. Mother of Jonathan, Jane, Alyson and the late David Markell. Grandmother of David, James and Emily. Graveside service at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY, on Wednesday at 1 PM. Contributions in 
 SALISBURY--Nancy, Sr., rscj, Mentor to Generations. Beloved and dedicated former teacher and headmistress of Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich, CT, past trustee and mentor to generations of alumnae and staff passed away on Monday, September 27th. She was a remarkable educator, sympathe
 THALER--Anna (Henya) Dolgin, of Brooklyn, New York, on September 27, 2004. b. Olevsk, Russia, 1910, immigrated to the US in 1929. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Solomon Thaler. Adored by her children Rena Thaler Rauch, Stuart Rauch, and Dr. Alvin Thaler; beloved grandmother of Benjamin Rau
 BARZELAY -- Batya. The Board of Directors and staff of the JCC on the Palisades mourn the loss of Batya Barzelay, who has been a loved and creative staff member of the JCC. Her devotion to our Senior Adult Department made our center a ''home away from home'' for hundreds of seniors, and und
 BOROWITZ -- Estelle, Dr. Whose grace, wisdom and depth of soul made her widely beloved, died Monday, September 27. One of the first graduates of the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies, she served on its faculty and on its journal editorial board. She was a founder and Dean of Curricul
 CARDULLO -- June Moore, M.D. Died suddenly on September 22, 2004, from injuries sustained when she was struck by an automobile while walking in her hometown of Pompton Plains, New Jersey. Born June 19, 1927 in Bayonne, New Jersey, she graduated from Barnard College in 1947 and received her 
 GOLDMAN--Debra E. Beloved wife of twenty-three years of Leonard Ellis. Cherished sister of Karen Goldman. Devoted daughter of the late Harold and Min Goldman. Adored daughter-in-law of Kenneth Ellis and the late Phyllis Ellis. Loving sister-inlaw of Andrew Ellis and Emily Segal and bemused 
 LOTT--Elizabeth, Ph.D. On September 24. Associate Professor of Economics & Department Chair at Pace University. She authored many economic publications. Age 67 of Wayne, NJ. Mother of Joseph, Virginia and the late Helena Ava Liotta. For more information go to: www.festamemorial.com       
 MOORE--Geraldine G.L. (aka Jaundine), September 24, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Geraldine (nee Griffin) and William A. Moore. Attended Loretto Academy, Chicago, graduated from St. Catherine's Academy and Katherine Gibbs, NYC. B.S. degree Fordham, M.A. and professional diploma Teacher
 SALISBURY -- Nancy, rscj. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional leader, gifted teacher and treasured friend. An advocate for the importance of faith and spirit in the lives of 
 SCHWARTZ--Ida R. Devoted wife of the late Alex. Beloved mother, dear and devoted friend. Contributions in her memory may be made to Maimonides Hospital, Brooklyn, or Career Transition for Dancers, NYC. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.    
 THALER--Anna (Henya) Dolgin, of Brooklyn, New York, on September 27, 2004. b. Olevsk, Russia, 1910, immigrated to the US in 1929. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Solomon Thaler. Adored by her children, Rena Thaler Rauch, Stuart Rauch, and Dr. Alvin Thaler; beloved grandmother of Benjamin Ra
 BRYANT--Martha T., 87. Died in her Manhattan home on September 19th. She retired from government service in 1962 and the Presbyterian Church USA in 1988. She is survived by her husband of 51 years, William Bryant.       
 RUBINSTEIN--Irene S, died on September 29th, in her 92nd year, after a long and fulfilling life. She is survived by her sons, Laurence, Peter and John in whom she took enormous pride; their wives, Robin, Kerry and Blair who gave her love and devotion; her grandchildren, Mara and Jeff Tanzma
 SALISBURY -- Nancy, rscj. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional leader, gifted teacher and treasured friend. An advocate for the importance of faith and spirit in the lives of 
 WHITMAN -- Janet Russell. The Society for the Relief of Women and Children mourns the death of Janet Russell Whitman, who served on our Board for over 50 years. Her dedication, generosity and lively spirit will be deeply missed. Elizabeth Jacks Scott President WHITMAN--Janet R. The 
