 Coretta Scott King, known first as the wife of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then as his widow, then as an avid proselytizer for his vision of racial peace and nonviolent social change, died Monday at a hospital in Mexico. She was 78. The primary cause of death was ''insuffic
 Endesha Ida Mae Holland, a noted scholar and dramatist whose best-known play, ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' chronicled her journey from poverty and prostitution in the Jim Crow South to civil rights activism, a Ph.D. and an academic career, died on Jan. 25 at nursing home in Santa Monica,
 DROGIN--Fannie. January 30 in her 95th year. Much loved wife of the late Paul (Poly) Drogin. Devoted and loving mother of Ira (Janet) grandchildren Laurent (Victoria), Peter (Catherine) and great grandchildren Allison, Dana and Alexander.       
 KING--Coretta Scott. The Foundation for Ethnic Understanding mourns the passing of the first lady of the civil rights movement who championed her late husband's legacy of human rights and the strengthening of black-Jewish relations. To our cherished partner and supporter, Martin Luther King
 SACK--Prentice LarRieu. An enthusiastic sailor, hiker, birder, world traveler, voracious reader, wife, mother and grandmother. She died at age 77 in her home in San Francisco on January 25, 2006. She is survived by her husband Paul, her brother Barry LarRieu, four children, their spouses an
 WABER--Ethel. Beloved wife of Bernard. Cherished mother of Paulis Waber and Rod Cash, Louisa Waber and Dana Gordon & Gary Waber. Adored grandmother of Mason, Anna and Rachel Cash and Reuben Gordon. We loved her very much.       
 WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund deeply mourn the loss of Wendy Wasserstein, a major force in the American theater and our colleague. In addition to Wendy's immeasurable contributions as a playwright and her work as an arts advocate, she also b
 Moira Shearer, a luminous star in the galaxy of British ballerinas who brought the Royal Ballet to international attention and whose dramatic portrayal as the doomed heroine of the 1948 film ''The Red Shoes'' was searingly impressed on generations of moviegoers, died in Oxford, England, on 
 BROWN--Nan Bimblick. Born January 10, 1931 in Cincinnati, passed away on January 31 just three weeks after her 75th birthday. Nan was beautiful and strong and the best mother her sons Warren and Gary, and daughter, Anabelle, could have had. An accomplished fashion designer, businesswoman an
 DROGIN--Fannie. January 30 in her 95th year. Much loved wife of the late Paul (Poly) Drogin. Devoted and loving mother of Ira (Janet) grandchildren Laurent (Victoria), Peter (Catherine) and great grandchildren Allison, Dana and Alexander.       
 KING--Coretta Scott. The staff and members of our 275,000-member health care union mourn the passing of beloved friend and ally Coretta Scott King. She was an inspiring champion of racial and economic justice, peace and the rights of working women. She was a lifelong foe of racism, poverty 
 STEVENS--Alyce. Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club deeply mourns the passing of Mrs. William H. (Alyce) Stevens, Jr. in Florida on January 23. Alyce was a longtime member of the Women's Committee, and a founding member of the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club Decorator Show House in 1973. That first year 
 STONE--Norma Dolores. After a brief illness, of cancer. Famed beauty and model in her youth, she is survived by her daughter Danielle Steel and loving grandchildren Beatrix, Samantha, Victoria, Vanessa, Maximillian, Zara, Trevor, Todd and the late Nicholas and great-grandson Sebastian. The 
 YOUNG -- Beatrice. Died peacefully in her 94th year. Dear sister of Ruth Gilbert, devoted mother of Marcia and Joseph (Zwiebel), Susan and Abraham (Pion). Proud grandmother of Debby, Karen, Jonathan, Jan, Paula. Loving great-grandmother of Jason, Daniel, Jamie, Jaclyn, Jacob, Sophie, Emily.
 WASSERSTEIN -- Wendy. NYU's Tisch School of the Arts and the Rita and Burton Goldberg Department of Dramatic Writing note with deep sorrow the passing of Wendy Wasserstein, talented playwright, esteemed colleague, and valued friend. As a Goldberg Professor she was an admired faculty member,
 Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 41. The cause was ovarian cance
 BALK - Madeline. Passed away after a very brief illness February 1st at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Weill. Caring daughter of the late Ethel and Joseph Balk. Loving sister of Daniel Balk and the late Leon Balk and Pauline Manevitz. Beloved Aunt and second ''Mother'' to Sheila Man
 CHAIFETZ--Jill. On February 2, 2006. Beloved wife of Daniel Seltzer, devotd and loving mother of Leila, Isaac and Milo Selchaif; beloved daughter of Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz; caring daughter-in-law of Joyce and Isadore Seltzer; adoring sister of Lawrence Chaifetz and his wife Renee Chai
 CRARY--Mary Chapman. Of Asharoken, NY, passed away on Sunday, January 29, 2006, at the age of 83. She was a much-loved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. Mrs. Crary was an active community volunteer in Huntington Township for more than 50 years. Her philanthropic and community 
 GINSBERG--Annette. On February 2, 2006. Beloved wife of Democratic State Committeeman Robert Ginsberg. Loving mother of Elizabeth & David. Cherished daughter of Herbert and Esther Hult. Dear sister of Dennis and David Hult. Services Sunday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amste
 GRAHAM--Rev. Margaret M. We grieve at the untimely loss of our beloved friend Meg, and cherish the gifts of faith and humanity she shared with us and others. Virginia and Richard Schubert, Elisabeth Austin, Emily and Robert Carroll, Deborah and Selvyn Seidel.       
 KOSTICK -- Marilyn (Glass man). Of Boston, MA, on Wednesday, February 1, 2006. For 61 years, the beloved wife of Sam. Loving mother of Susan Kostick and her husband, Bob Hinck of Seattle and Anne Kostick and her husband, Chick Foxgrover of Brooklyn. Devoted grandmother of Megan, Juliann and
 LOH--Suzette H.,who was a partner at Eisner LLP, one of the 20 largest regional accounting and advisory firms in the country, died of cancer February 1 at her Scarsdale home. She would have been 45 later this month. A graduate of the Phillips Exeter Academy and Barnard College, Suzette serv
 STILLMAN--Eugenia W., 86. Funeral at NEW TIME: 3PM on Friday, February 3 at St. James Church, 865 Madison Avenue at 71 St, NYC 10021. $(6$)STILLMAN -- Eugenia W. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Eugenia W. Stillman, wife of former headmaster P
 STONE--Norma Dolores. After a brief illness, of cancer. Famed beauty and model in her youth, she is survived by her daughter Danielle Steel and loving grandchildren Beatrix, Samantha, Victoria, Vanessa, Maximillian, Zara, Trevor, Todd and the late Nicholas and great-grandson Sebastian. The 
 WASSERSTEIN -- Wendy J. On January 30, 2006 loving mother of Lucy Jane, cherished daughter of Lola, beloved sister of Bruce, Georgette, and the late Sandra. Aunt of Tajlei, Jennifer, Melissa, Samantha, Pamela, Oliver, Ben, Scoop, Maxwell, Jack, and Dash. She was a source of laughter, love, 
 FARNSWORTH--Madeline H., 91. Died January 11 in Concord, NH. Graduate of Wheaton College, MA. She was office manager at Rockefeller Brothers Fund for over 30 years. She is survived by her niece, Martha Bennett, and many friends.       
 SCHNITZER--Raymond. The John Jay College English Department extends sympathy to our colleague Shirley on the death of her husband Ray, Punster Polymath and warm-hearted friend.       
 Rebecca Wright, a Joffrey Ballet star in the 1960's and 70's and a ballet educator, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 58. The cause was cancer, said Keri Mesropov, the spokeswoman for the Washington Ballet, whose school Ms. Wright directed until her death.      
 BALK - Madeline. Passed away after a very brief illness February 1st at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Weill. Caring daughter of the late Ethel and Joseph Balk. Loving sister of Daniel Balk and the late Leon Balk and Pauline Manevitz. Beloved Aunt and second ''Mother'' to Sheila Man
 CHAIFETZ--Jill. The Trustees and staff of the Center for Alternative Sentencing and Employment Services (CASES) note with sorrow the passing of Jill Chaifetz. Her distinguished work on behalf of court involved students and all students in the New York City School system made a real differen
 CRARY -- Mary Chapman. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art extend their heartfelt condolences to our dear friend Miner and the entire Crary family on the loss of their beloved Mary. We will miss Mary's graciousness and brilliance. She will be long remembered by us
 FELDMAN -- Miriam Ruth. Died February 2, 2006, at her home in Roslyn, NY. Beloved mother of Nancy and Frank. Services will be held Sunday, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 North Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), Great Neck, NY. Donations in her memory may be made to the American Cance
 GRAHAM--Rev. Margaret M. We grieve at the untimely loss of our beloved friend Meg, and cherish the gifts of faith and humanity she shared with us and others. Virginia and Richard Schubert, Elisabeth Austin, Emily and Robert Carroll, Deborah and Selvyn Seidel.       
 GRUNWALD--Susan Tevan. Died February 2, 2006. Greatly beloved by many. Wife of the late Armand; Mother of Andrew and Linda, David and Ellen; Grandmother of Michael, Matthew, Danielle, Hannah, Sonia. Loving companion of Adrian Berlescu. Funeral services: on Sunday February 5, 12:15PM, Sinai 
 HAHN--Helene. Died February 2, 2006 at 100 years of age. An amazing woman and role model. Owner of the former Hahn's Delicatessen. Beloved wife of the late Isidor. Beloved mother of Sanford and the late Carol Glasser. Loving sister of the late Miriam Schloss and the late David Hausman. Cher
 JACOBS--Trudy on February 2, 2006 in her 68th year. Loving mother of Garrett (Elizabeth) Jacobs and Rori (Gaston) Perez. Adored grandmother of Jacqueline (Andrew) Lazowski, Meadow and Alexi Perez, and the late David Jacobs. Devoted aunt of Bonnie and Noel. Services were held Friday, Februar
 Tana Hoban, an accomplished photographer of children who turned her photography into an innovative kind of illustration for books for the youngest audiences, died on Jan. 27 at a hospice in suburban Paris. She was 88 and had been living in Paris for the last 23 years. Her death was 
 Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died yesterday, her 85th birt
 BALK - Madeline. Passed away after a very brief illness February 1st at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Weill. Caring daughter of the late Ethel and Joseph Balk. Loving sister of Daniel Balk and the late Leon Balk and Pauline Manevitz. Beloved Aunt and second ''Mother'' to Sheila Man
 CHAIFETZ--Jill. On February 2, 2006. Beloved wife of Daniel Seltzer, devotd and loving mother of Leila, Isaac and Milo Selchaif; beloved daughter of Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz; caring daughter-in-law of Joyce and Isadore Seltzer; adoring sister of Lawrence Chaifetz and his wife Renee Chai
 FELDMAN -- Miriam Ruth. Died February 2, 2006, at her home in Roslyn, NY. Beloved mother of Nancy and Frank. Services will be held Sunday, 3 PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 N. Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), Great Neck, NY. Donations in her memory may be made to the American Can
 FLYNN--Loretta C., Esq. (nee Corcoran). Of East Northport, NY, on Febraury 1, 2006 in her 83rd year. Graduate of the College of New Rochelle (1942), Fordham Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (1943) and Fordham Law (1951). Served as an officer and director of Suffolk AHRC. Active in CNR A
 FRANK--Elizabeth Pope. 91, longtime women's magazine editor, died January 30, 2006 after a lengthy illness at Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ. The daughter of the late Melville and Belle Oberfelder Welt, she was born December 9, 1914 in Detroit. Mrs. Frank earned her B.A. at Vassar College i
 GILBERT--Sue. February 3, 2006. Beloved mother and grandmother of Fred, Sheryl, Scott and Alex. Cherished sister of Bea Gilbert. Adored by her nieces, nephews and their families. Predeceased by husband Sol and son Jon. All who knew her were swept into her magic circle of love. We will miss 
 GRAHAM--Rev. Margaret M. We grieve at the untimely loss of our beloved friend Meg, and cherish the gifts of faith and humanity she shared with us and others. Virginia and Richard Schubert, Elisabeth Austin, Emily and Robert Carroll, Deborah and Selvyn Seidel.       
 GREENE--Elizabeth I. City & Country School's Board of Trustees and community mourn the loss of our devoted alumna and Trustee, Elizabeth Ivory Greene. We will miss her youthful spirit, innovative thinking and deep commitment to City & Country. Stuart Gold, Chair Kate Turley, Principal      
 JACOBS--Trudy on February 2, 2006 in her 68th year. Loving mother of Garrett (Elizabeth) Jacobs and Rori (Gaston) Perez. Adored grandmother of Jacqueline (Andrew) Lazowski, Meadow and Alexi Perez, and the late David Jacobs. Devoted aunt of Bonnie and Noel. Services were held Friday, Februar
 KEAN--Mallory G. B. Of Far Hills, NJ, suddenly on January 27, 2006. Friend to many new and old, she gave so much to us all, touching more people than anyone can count. A thoroughly developed appreciation for life in all its forms and of the mysteries of nature for which she had a deep love.
 KESSEL--Bertha. 92, of Lakewood, NJ, on February 3, 2006. Survived by her loving brother, Bernard Joseph Kessel and nephew Richard Mark Kessel. Graveside services on Monday, February 6, 2006, at 1 pm, at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 MARCUS--Mary P. 93. Wife of the late Dr. David Marcus, loving mother of Sue Marcus, Dr. Stephen H. Marcus and Judith Marcus. Cherished Grammy to Amy, Jennifer and Anthony. Beloved sister of Bertha P. Grodsky and Dr. Ada P. Rosen. Yiddish folk singer extraordinaire! Her wit, wisdom, smile an
 MOFFAT--Jane Jacobs, on February 4, 2006. Died peacefully at home at age 93. Loving wife of the late Alexander Moffat. Devoted sister of Harry A. Jacobs Jr. Loving aunt of many nieces and nephews. Graduate of Randolph Macon Women's College, and a Masters from Teachers College. She volunteer
 PIGNONE--Sister Jean M., F.M.M. The administration, trustees and staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center in Roslyn, New York, mourn the passing of Sister Jean M. Pignone of the Franciscan Missionaries of Mary. Sister Jean served St. Francis Hospital in a number of different capaciti
 WASSERSTEIN -- Wendy J. On January 30, 2006 loving mother of Lucy Jane, cherished daughter of Lola, beloved sister of Bruce, Georgette, and the late Sandra. Aunt of Tajlei, Jennifer, Melissa, Samantha, Pamela, Oliver, Ben, Scoop, Maxwell, Jack, and Dash. She was a source of laughter, love, 
 WEINSTOCK - Lillian. 94, Pompano Beach, FL, January 29, 2006. Survived by herloving children, Leonard (Terry) Weinstock and Deborah (Martin) Bloch, her grandchildren, Kenneth (Jacqueline) Perlmutter, S. Michael Perlmutter, Lauren (Rob Widell) Weinstock, and Adam Weinstock, great grandchildr
 Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died Saturday, her 85th birth
 FRIEDAN--Betty. On February 4, at home surrounded by family. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 11 am, Monday, February 6. Memorials to the Children's Defense Fund, NARAL or other causes that Betty would endorse. $(6$)FRIEDAN--Betty. The International Longevity Center (ILC-USA) mourns t
 GERSZKOP--Claire. A lovely, beloved woman who leaves a legacy of caring to her daughter, Rosalind Eskenazi, and family. Passed away Saturday, February 4, at 91 years. Widow of Charles Gerszkop, and devoted motherin-law to Gerald Eskenazi; loving grandmother to Ellen Eskenazi Shuster, Mark E
 KEAN--Mallory G. B. Of Far Hills, NJ, suddenly on January 27, 2006. Friend to many new and old, she gave so much to us all, touching more people than anyone can count. A thoroughly developed appreciation for life in all its forms and of the mysteries of nature for which she had a deep love.
 MOFFAT--Jane Jacobs, on February 4, 2006. Died peacefully at home at age 93. Loving wife of the late Alexander Moffat. Devoted sister of Harry A. Jacobs Jr. Loving aunt of many nieces and nephews. Graduate of Randolph Macon Women's College, and a Masters from Teachers College. She volunteer
 POSEN--Carol Abelson. We grieve the untimely passing of Carol, who died tragically on February 4, 2006. She leaves behind her beloved husband Jack, adoring daughter Jenny, devoted parents Fran & Sandy, mother-in-law Celia, brother Kenny, sisters-in-law Bunny & Leslie, stepchildren Julie, Pa
 SWEENEY--Ethel. 83, died in Brooklyn, NY, on January 25, 2006, with friends and family by her side. Born April 1, 1922, in Scarsdale, NY, she lived most of her life in Brooklyn Heights. Daughter of H. Blanche Sweeney and Edward C. Sweeney, and niece of Ethel L. Armstead. Ethel received a BA
 JAY--Eileen. Remembering her with love and sadness. She would have been 50, today.       
 Jo Foxworth, a doyenne of New York advertising, who wrote the words and commissioned the tune for the siren song intended to lure shoppers to D'Agostino supermarkets, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. The death was annou
 BENJAMIN--Miriam. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are deeply saddened by the loss of Miriam Benjamin of Sarasota, Florida. Mrs. Benjamin was a founder of our Sarasota/Gulf Coast Chapter and prior to moving to Florida, was a National Vice President of the
 BRENNER--Ruth, 87. Died peacefully on February 4, 2006, in Winston-Salem, NC surrounded by her family. Much loved wife of the late ''Ernie''. Treasured by her children, Jan Zonon and her husband Barry of New York City, David and wife Debbie of Winston-Salem, NC and Gary and wife Denise of S
 FARLEY--Muriel Ross. January 21, 1906-February 6, 2006. Beloved wife of the late James J. Farley. Loving mother of Flora Christine Jenkins, Ruth Woolard, Ross Farley, Muriel Dominquez and Barbara Heller. Wonderful mother-in-law to Paul Woolard, Jose Dominquez, Arthur Heller and the late Pau
 KARETSKY--Sara, 94. Passed away peacefully on February 6, 2006 at The Hebrew Home for the Aged. Loving and beloved wife of the late John (Jacob). Loving mother of Alfred, the late David & Samuel & daughtersin-law Bernice, Geraldine and Nancy. Proud grandmother of seven and great grandmother
 KEAN--Mallory G. B. Of Far Hills, NJ, suddenly on January 27, 2006. Friend to many new and old, she gave so much to us all, touching more people than anyone can count. A thoroughly developed appreciation for life in all its forms and of the mysteries of nature for which she had a deep love.
 KERNER--Mildred. Died peacefully in her sleep February 5, 2006, at the age of 94. Beloved mother of David, mother-in-law of Barbara, grandmother of Robin, Bruce and Scott. She will live in our hearts forever.       
 McCALL -- Janet J. (nee Jones). Wife of Julien L. McCall of Hunting Valley, OH, beloved mother of Melissa of Hunting Valley, OH, Alison G. of NYC, NY and Julien L. Jr. (Lash) of London, England. Loving grandmother of Blinn L., Julia L. and Andrew M. Cushman. Those who wish may make contribu
 MILLER--Pamela.69, Of Hartsdale died February 5, 2006 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Dr. Irwin; loving mother of Eric (and Andrea) of Marlboro, NJ and Larry (and Suzy) of Niskayuna, NY; adored grandmother of Shelby, Nathan & Rebecca, sister of Gene Schaffer, Susan Hertzberg, Linda L
 POSEN--Carol Abelson. We grieve the untimely passing of Carol, who died tragically on February 4, 2006. She leaves behind her beloved husband Jack, adoring daughter Jenny, devoted parents Fran & Sandy, mother-in-law Celia, brother Kenny, sisters-in-law Bunny & Leslie, stepchildren Julie, Pa
 RICHARDSON--Sheila Gabrilove. Died suddenly on February 1, 2006. She was the daughter of the late Harold & Blanche Gabrilove. Devoted wife of Ronald. Loving and beloved mother of Randi and Craig. Dear grandmother of Brett, Ryan and Nicole. Cherished niece of Dr. J. Lester Gabrilove.       
 TOMEBLAINE - Verdalee. The Horticultural Society of New York notes with sadness the death of Verdalee Tombelaine, December 26, 2005. Former Administrator of Volunteers and one-time Acting Executive Director, Ms. Tombelaine was devoted to the Society and its Library. She organized hundreds o
 AUCHINCLOSS--Jane Sibley, 87. Died Sunday, February 5, at her home in Millbrook, NY. A Memorial Service will take place at the Grace Episcopal Church, Franklin Avenue, Millbrook, N.Y., on Saturday, February 11 at 3 PM.       
 BALICH--Marie (Zulyevits). 101, died Saturday in Ghent, N.Y. She taught French, primarily at Christopher Columbus H.S. in the Bronx, for 35 years. Memorials may be made to the Hunter College Foundation.       
 KARETSKY--Sara, 94. Passed away peacefully on February 6, 2006 at The Hebrew Home for the Aged. Loving and beloved wife of the late John (Jacob). Loving mother of Alfred, the late David & Samuel & daughtersin-law Bernice, Geraldine and Nancy. Proud grandmother of seven and great grandmother
 KLEIN--Beatrice (nee Moschel), 88, on February 6, 2006. Predeceased by her husband, Alfred. Mom to four and three spouses. Grandma and great grandma. She loved us all with everything she had. Shiva at Steve and Marilyn Klein, 6 Seven Oaks La, Nanuet, NY 10954 Wednesday through Sunday noon. 
 MARX-RANDOLPH--Lisl. On February 5th, 95 years old, surrounded by family. As Lisl Weil she was a famous Illustrator and Author of 132 Children's Books. The Dean of our family. George, Donna, Trudi, Marian and Mitch       
 MILLER--Pamela.69, Of Hartsdale died February 5, 2006 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Dr. Irwin; loving mother of Eric (and Andrea) of Marlboro, NJ and Larry (and Suzy) of Niskayuna, NY; adored grandmother of Shelby, Nathan & Rebecca, sister of Gene Schaffer, Susan Hertzberg, Linda L
 POSEN--Carol. Our beloved daughter, you brought sunshine and happiness into our lives every day. Jack and Jenny are your gifts to us and we treasure them dearly. A fantastic wife and unbelievable mother, unique daughter, loving, kind and caring sister, grandmother and friend, you were beaut
 SUGLIA--Gloria T. Died January 27, 2006, two days before her 84th birthday. Longtime employee of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. She was predeceased by her twin sister Clair. She leaves her devoted sister Honor Seaman and many loving nieces, nephews and friends.       
 WALTON--Mary B. Of Griswold, CT, on February 6, in her 92nd year. An environmental activist and teacher, she will be deeply missed by her daughter Joan, stepdaughter Joan, grandchildren Robert, Matthew, Joseph and Joanne, all her great-grandchildren and multitude of loving friends. In lieu 
 WELLS--Patricia Keever. On February 6, 2006, in Long Beach, NY, her favorite place on Earth. Loving daughter of the late Katherine (nee Holm) and Christopher Keever. Devoted sister of the late Frank Keever. Dear friend and companion of the late Edward G. Condon. Loving cousin and dedicated 
 KAPLAN--Pearl Joyce, (nee Ofstrock). Beloved Mother of Rachel, Avram ''Butch'', Sam and David. Treasured Mother in-Law to Suzanna, Tania and Marianne. Cherished Grandmother of Ariella, Ma'ayan, Elan, Alexander, Eytan, Phillip and Joseph. Devoted Companion and Friend to Jerry Marquess. From 
 SHAPIRO--Leslie. On February 5, 2006. Loving sister of Sylvia Miller, and her husband Harry Miller, dear aunt of Eric Price, and Ailian, great aunt of Mark and Scott Strauss, Jill Kaufman, and Ian Price.       
 WACKS--Judith, 71. Beloved wife of the late Harvey Wacks. She had great strength and spirit and an unyielding love of life and Torah. She will always be in our minds and in our hearts. Naphtali, Jonathan, Michale, Sari, Nathan, Devorah, Josh, Gabriel, Harry, Seth, Jake, Amy, and Judah.     
 TOMBELAINE -- Verdalee. The Horticultural Society of New York notes with sadness the death of Verdalee Tombelaine, December 26, 2005. Former Administrator of Volunteers and one-time Acting Executive Director, Ms. Tombelaine was devoted to the Society and its Library. She organized hundreds 
 Herta Glaz, a mezzo-soprano who performed regularly at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's and later taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on Jan. 28 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95. Her death was announced by Susan Davenny Wyner, a former student and a conductor. 
 ASH--Helen. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 BRODSKY--Dorothy Cutler. Passed away on February 8 at age 87. Beloved wife of the late David Brodsky. Survived by her children Marilyn Jacobson and Stuart (Jeni); grandchildren Jennifer, Erica, David and Lindsay; and great grandchildren Fiona, Eli, and Amelia. Graveside service private.    
 COOPER--Dorothy M. of Elizabeth, on Wednesday, February 8, 2006 at her residence. Beloved wife of the late David Cooper in 1967. Devoted mother and mother-inlaw of Betsy Cooper, MD, and devoted son-in-law Barton Penn and Barbara Cooper Mandell. Loving grandmother of David and Iris Mandell, 
 DEL VALLE--Edith. Beloved wife of William, devoted mother of Stephanie, dear sister of James. Former Chairman, Vocal Dept, La Guardia High School for Music and the Arts. A beautiful woman whose legacy will live on through the many lives she touched. Wake at Montera Funeral Home, 1848 Westch
 GREENE -- Elizabeth Ivory. Born in New York on January 17, 1929, Liz died on January 30. She was the daughter of the illustrator P.V.E. Ivory and Elizabeth Post Price. Liz was a life-long downtown New Yorker who in later years frequently declared that she got a nosebleed if she ventured nor
 SHAW--Esther, 84. On February 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Risa Silverglate, Karen Shaw, and Deborah Shindell. Wonderful motherin-law to Phillip Silverglate, James S. Olson and Allan Shindell. Cherished grandmother of Jason, Scott, Dara, Spencer, Grant, Paul, 
 ASH--Helen (Bakal). Peacefully in her sleep on February 9 at her home in Bronxville. Adored and adoring wife of Arthur for almost 60 years; loving and proud mother of Nancy and Jane and son-inlaw Mark Gallant; devoted and doting grandmother of William and Emily; loving sister of Arline Robi
 HOWELL--Tracy. The Bachmann-Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation is deeply saddened by the passing of Tracy Howell, wife of Dr. Michele Tagliati, mother of Isabella and Luca. In addition to her own professional career she was a strong supporter of her husband's work in movement disorders
 KEMP--Pearl. The American ORT family mourns the passing of Pearl Kemp, a 25-year supporter. In recognition of her loyalty and dedication, Ms. Kemp received American ORT's 2004 Supporter of the Year Award. She embraced ORT's mission and her longtime generosity and philanthropy have benefited
 MILLER--Pamela. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Pamela Miller and extend to her husband Irwin and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary       
 OBERWEGER--Tania (nee Zindel). Passed away peacefully on February 10, 2006, at the age of 95. Loving widow of Oscar, beloved mother of Gideon, mother-in-law of Claudia, grandmother of Alexander and Timothy, grandmother-in-law of Caroline and Willow, and greatgrandmother of Naomi Grace. Twen
 ROSS--Carmel Eban, 83, NYC, January 29, 2006. Londonborn actress and sister of Abba Eban, Raphael Eban and Ruth Lynn; widow of David Ross. With Ross she founded Theatre Four in NYC. Survived by Raphael Eban of London, Suzy Eban of Tel Aviv, and cousin Oliver Sacks, NYC.       
 ASH--Helen (Bakal). Peacefully in her sleep on February 9 at her home in Bronxville. Adored and adoring wife of Arthur for almost 60 years; loving and proud mother of Nancy and Jane and son-inlaw Mark Gallant; devoted and doting grandmother of William and Emily; loving sister of Arline Robi
 CASERTANO - Dolores. Avon, CT, on February 9, 2006. Devoted mother of Drew. Cherished grandmother of Alex, Tyler and Will. She was a warm, giving and loving woman, blessed with extraordinary style and elegance. She will be deeply missed by all those she has touched.       
 HOROWITZ--Minnie H., nee Hamburger, 105, of Fair Lawn, NJ, formerly of New York City, died on February 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Horowitz, loving mother of Elinor Schocket, dear grandmother of Bennett Donalds of Fair Lawn and Beth Donalds and her husband Howard Williams of
 KORETSKY -- Joan Mc Gough. Died on February 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late William Koretsky. Devoted mother of William A. Koretsky, of Teaneck, NJ. Loving grandmother of Sarah. Graduate of Newtown High School and Hunter College. Mourned by her sisters, Patricia Meeker and Kathleen Hodge,
 KOVACH--Carole. Age 81, died February 8, after a short illness. Devoted wife of the late John. Loving mother of Gail. Sister of the late Harriet Frohman. Adoring aunt to Ed, Scott and Dara Frohman, Sallee, Faran and Jayme Cohen. A compassionate, generous and loving person who will be sorely
 McCALL -- Janet J. (nee Jones). Wife of Julien L. McCall of Hunting Valley, OH, formerly of Darien, CT, beloved mother of Melissa of Hunting Valley, OH, Alison G. of NYC, NY and Julien L. Jr. (Lash) of London, England. Loving grandmother of Blinn L., Julia L. and Andrew M. Cushman. Those wh
 McMURRAY -- Ruth (nee Russell), 80, died January 19th, 2006. Beloved mother of Sarah Jane Corey and Amanda Kate and grandmother of Rene and Giovanna Mercadel. Remains will be installed in the Columbarium at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine alongside those of her beloved husband, Andrew.
 MILLER - Edna. Passed peacefully on February 6 after 100 full and happy years. Loving wife of the late Dr. Bernard Sager and the late Dr. Milton Miller. Beloved mother of Robert & Jill Sager, cherished grandmother of Kim and William Sager, proud great-grandmother of Samuel and Hayley Sager.
 OBERWEGER--Tania (nee Zindel). Passed away peacefully on February 10, 2006, at the age of 95. Loving widow of Oscar, beloved mother of Gideon, mother-in-law of Claudia, grandmother of Alexander and Timothy, grandmother-in-law of Caroline and Willow, and greatgrandmother of Naomi Grace. Twen
 PHILLIPS--Audrey Stern, 76, died Janauary 27, 2006 after a lengthy illness. Beloved mother, grandmother, sister and friend. A woman of valor, an inspiration to all. An ideal of grace, elegance and kindness to her daughters Robin and Eric Hananel, Lindy and Tom Gallagher and Penny and Andrew
 POST--Yetta Hecht. Passed away February 10, at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Survived by her children, Ina Goldberg (the late Arthur), Gerald and Susan Post, grandchildren, Lawrence Goldberg, Amy and Robert Tardif, Neal Post, Dina and David Nass, great-grandchildren, Adam and Ian Ta
 ROVINSKY -- Judith Selma. Passed away on February 10, 2006, after a three year battle with lung cancer. She is survived by a loving husband, Dr. Joseph, devoted children, Audrey, John, Jill, Michael, Paul and David, and caring grandchildren, Joshua, Lauren, Alexander, Andrew and Max. A memo
 RYBECK--Sarah E. Of Stamford and Greenwich, CT. Wife of 77 years of the late Maurice W. Rybeck, died at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center on Friday, February 10, 2006. She was 97. Mrs. Rybeck is survived by children, Joan and Norman Suslock of Fairfield, CT; Carole and Sy Haber of Whit
 STENBECK -- Merrill Mac Leod. Died peacefully on February 10, at home, surrounded by her beloved family and dogs. Devoted mother of Cristina, Hugo, Sophie and Max; beloved daughter of Carolyn Verbeck and sister of Robert and Jay MacLeod. The funeral service will be private. In lieu of flowe
 VAN ORDEN--Joan F. Of Peapack, New Jersey died on Thursday, February 10, 2006 of peritoneal cancer. She was the daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. T. Durland Van Orden. Miss Van Orden was born in New York City and graduated from the Dalton School and Smith College. She had lived in the Somer
 ZIMAND--Noel Manfre. February 10, 2006. Beloved wife of Harvey Folks Zimand. Loving mother of Christopher Francis Manfre III, Mark Anthony Manfre and stepmother of Patricia Folks Carpenter and Stephanie Folks Plexico. Cherished grandmother of Christopher Francis Manfre IV and Scott Anthony 
 EDMONDS--Edith Reed. We mourn the passing and send our deepest sympathy and condolence to our friend, John L. Edmonds, upon the loss of his wife of more than 50 years, Dr. Edith C. Reed. Dr. Reed was an outstanding NYC woman, having graduated George Washington High School and Hunter College
 KORETSKY -- Joan Mc Gough. Died on February 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late William Koretsky. Devoted mother of William A. Koretsky, of Teaneck, NJ. Loving grandmother of Sarah. Graduate of Newtown High School and Hunter College. Mourned by her sisters, Patricia Meeker and Kathleen Hodge,
 RATH--Patricia Ruhl Graffin. Of Findlay, OH, died peacefully on February 9, 2006, in her NY home. She attended Cleveland Institute of Music. As a singer she performed in NY and toured the world. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to Visiting Nurses of NY, Manhattan Branch.       
 SALTZER -- Lillian (Green stein). On February 10. Devoted aunt to Judy Kornfeld, Cary Schneiweis and Michael Saltzer. Beloved stepmother to Jeffrey Saltzer and Linda Janow. Loving grandmother to Paul, Brooke, Pepper and Ginger. Adoring great-grandmother to Jaden, Evan and Eric. She was a re
 SOBEL--Anne. Died peacefully February 7, 2006 in Tequesta, FL at age 104. She was born in St. Petersburg, Russia and came to the United States at age 2. She was valedictorian of her class at Washington Irving High School, New York City. She was personal secretary to Frank Hardart of Horn an
 STENBECK -- Merrill Mac Leod. Died peacefully on February 10, at home, surrounded by her beloved family and dogs. Devoted mother of Cristina, Hugo, Sophie and Max; beloved daughter of Carolyn Verbeck and sister of Robert and Jay MacLeod. The funeral service will be private. In lieu of flowe
 VARDY--Edith E. 77, died peacefully on February 10. Beloved wife of Moshe, loving mother of Joel, Iris and Michael, proud grandmother of Noah, Alex, Sofia, Andrew and David. Survived ghetto, Auschwitz, death march, slave labor. Fought for Israeli independence. Nurse, artist and speaker on t
 Edna Lewis, the granddaughter of a former slave whose cookbooks revived the nearly forgotten genre of refined Southern cooking while offering a glimpse into African-American farm life in the early 20th century, died yesterday. She was 89. Miss Lewis, as she was always called, died i
 CAPLAN--Jean Rhea Backer. Died peacefully February 9, 2006, aged 98, at home, in Long Beach, NY. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Harry Caplan, devoted mother of Neil (Judi) & Marc (Hannah), she was the much cherished ''Granny Jean'' to grandchildren Hillel (Joann), Baruch (Aliza), Ariel, Lun
 CURTIS--Christine Windisch von Goeben, granddaughter of the late Frederick and Hedda von Goeben Behr of this city died at the age of 77 at the River Glenn Rehabilitation Center in Southbury, CT on February 11. She is survived by her husband John Robert Curtis, Jr., three sons, Carl Gavin, A
 EDMONDS--Edith Reed. We mourn the passing and send our deepest sympathy and condolence to our friend, John L. Edmonds, upon the loss of his wife of more than 50 years, Dr. Edith C. Reed. Dr. Reed was an outstanding NYC woman, having graduated George Washington High School and Hunter College
 KING--Mildred Rosen. Devoted wife, loving mother, ''best girl boo-boo'' died of complications due to kidney disease February 12, 2006. She is survived by her husband, Irving and daughters, Hillary King & Susan Paustian. Contributions may be made to American Kidney Foundation or Alzheimer's 
 PERKINS--Joan T. Joan Titcomb Perkins, beloved wife of Roswell B. Perkins, mother of Roswell, Jr., of Little Compton, RI, Laura, of Cambridge, MA, and Nancy, of Washington, D.C., grandmother of Renny and Samantha Waldron, James and Christine Perkins, and sister of Elizabeth Blow, of Rhinebe
 SALTZER -- Lillian (Green stein). On February 10. Devoted aunt to Judy Kornfeld, Cary Schneiweis and Michael Saltzer. Beloved stepmother to Jeffrey Saltzer and Linda Janow. Loving grandmother to Paul, Brooke, Pepper and Ginger. Adoring great-grandmother to Jaden, Evan and Eric. She was a re
 GRETSCH Charlotte Sommer Gretsch 1880-1928 It is with great respect and loving memories that we honor Charlotte Sommer Gretsch on the anniversary of her 125th birthday. Born on December 16, 1880 in Brooklyn, NY, she entered into eternal rest on May 12, 1928. Charlotte was the only daughter 
 GORDON--Lila. Beloved wife of Alfred. Devoted mother of Nadine and Mark. Cherished grandmother of Jessica and Masha. She was a dedicated educator in the NYC school system for 30 years.       
 PERKINS--Joan T. Joan Titcomb Perkins, beloved wife of Roswell B. Perkins, mother of Roswell, Jr., of Little Compton, RI, Laura, of Cambridge, MA, and Nancy, of Washington, D.C., grandmother of Renny and Samantha Waldron, James and Christine Perkins, and sister of Elizabeth Blow, of Rhinebe
 Shoshana Damari, one of Israel's most popular singers, with a career dating back to the founding of the state, died on Tuesday in Tel Aviv. She was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said. Her signature song, ''Anemones,'' was played at her hospital bedside in 
 BALDWIN--Rosamond Wilder. Died in New York City February 14, 2006, at age 96. A Manhattan resident for 42 years, she was a native of Gloucester, MA., widow of professor of history Dr. Summerfield Baldwin 3rd, and beloved mother of Patricia B. Andrews of Baltimore, Mary B. Baer of Annapolis,
 BOEHM--Frances. Peacefully passed away, Tuesday, February 14, age 91. The supreme activist. Remembered for her boundless devotion to those she loved and the causes in which she believed. A long-time member of the Women's Strike For Peace and American Labor Party; a co-founder of the Five To
 HITZIG--Edith B. Age 89, died on February 15, 2006. She was the widow of Dr. William M. Hitzig. Services to be held at grave side at Mount Hebron Cemetery in Queens on February 16 at 9:30 AM. $(6$)HITZIG--Edith. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow 
 LAUER--Anita. On February 15, 2006. Beloved wife of Dr. Kurt Lauer & adored mother of Jean Lauer and Susan Lauer-Pena and her husband Raymond Pena. Cherished grandmother of Maxine Pena. Loving sister of Diane Tobias and her husband Richard Tobias. Graveside services Friday, February 17, 2PM
 MEYERS - Judith. The Trustees & Staff of Jewish Child Care Association are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Judy Meyers, Director of JCCA's tutoring program, Two Together for 11 years. Under her leadership the program grew from one site to four; the number of children & tutors doubl
 SPECTOR--Dorothy. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Dorothy Spector of Coral Gables, Florida. Her many years of service and devotion to the ATS were truly inspiring. Mrs. Spector was a past president of the Coral Gables, Miami, Kendall Ch
 Peggy Appiah, who as a daughter of a British chancellor of the exchequer defied the conventions of her time by marrying an Ashanti political leader and who went on to become an author and a revered figure in her adopted homeland, Ghana, died Saturday in Kumasi, Ghana. She was 84. Th
 BENINGSON--Renee Doris. Passed away on February 16, 2006, following a brief illness. She is survived by her husband of 52 years Bob, her daughters Robin and Susan, her sons by choice Joseph and William Coplin, her grandchildren by choice Max, Hannah and Maxine and an extended family. Renee 
 BOEHM--Frances. The Five Towns Forum profoundly mourn the death of its founder, former Chairperson and present board member. Fran was committed throughout her life to the causes of peace and social justice. There was rarely a progressive cause in the United States that Fran and her beloved 
 DRITSAS--Evangelia Demetriou. With great sorrow we announce the death on February 11, 2006 of Evangelia Demetriou Dritsas widow of Demetrios E. Dritsas. Her loss is deeply mourned by her daughter Mary Dritsas Liebis, her son in-law Ronald R. Liebis, and her extended family both here and in 
 RACKMILL--Judith. On February 15, 2006 at the age of 76. Beloved wife of the late Lloyd. Devoted sister of Martin Taffet and Rosalyn Perlmutter. Loving sister-inlaw to Carol and Nathan. Cherished aunt of Jordan, David, Jacqueline, Andrea and David. She retired as New York regional administr
 SCHAPIRO--Pearl. February 16, 2006. 86 years old. Much beloved wife of Louis for 64 years; most treasured mother of Richard (Lois) and Ira (Karen) and beloved grandmother of Lee, Eric, Craig, Sara and Jason; beloved great-grandmother of six; devoted sister of Renee. She was a wonderful woma
 SHOLTZ--Bette. Adored sister of Peggy, lost her valiant battle with lung cancer on Wednesday, February 15. She was loved by many friends and relations including her ''little sister'' Marjorie, precious niece Lindsay, cousins Barry, Edward and the next generation of Leeds, Pollock and Beil. 
 YOUNG--Alice Klein, 94, Peacefully on February 15, 2006. Beloved matriarch of the Klein family, she was cherished as daughter, sister, cousin, wife, mother, grandmother, and as the most devoted aunt to three generations of nieces and nephews. She was the widow of Frank O. Young and is survi
 ZIPSER--Jean. February 13, car accident. Writer, poet, founder of Pahaquarry Foundation, last mayor of Pahaquarry, NJ. She will be dearly missed by her cousins Riley and Sally Newbert. Service on Monday, February 20, 10:30am St. Jude's RC Church, Blairstown, NJ. Memorial service is being pl
 KONIGSBERG--Frances. The Board of Directors of Keren Or mourn the passing of Frances Konigsberg, mother of Bernice Schwartz. May she rest in peace. Dr. Edward L. Steinberg, Chairman Dr. Albert Hornblass, President       
 BRAUNSCHWEIG--Willi Kirkham. February 17, 2004. Age can not wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety.       
 ARNOLD - Regina. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the loss of Regina Arnold, Associate Dean of Studies and, for 21 years, a Professor of Sociology at the College. A staunch advocate of experimental learning, Dr. Arnold was noted for her ability to engage students in dialogue and to help them t
 COHEN--Anna (Honey). Vice President of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Sephardic Home. She was our Raffle Chairperson for over 30 years. We extend our deepest condolences to her children, David and Len, and their families. She will be remembered for her dedication to the residents of the Sephar
 FIELDS--Janice, 86, is at peace with her son Peter. Her family cherishes their time with her.       
 WASSERMAN--Leonard. Beloved husband of Germaine, devoted father of Eric & father-in-law of Joan. Loving grandfather of Shanna Zuspan and her husband Jarrett & Evan Wasserman, dear brother of Phoebe, Robert, loving uncle to Alyson Miller and Gary Roberts. Veteran of WWII and a dedicated trad
 WELKOWITZ - Joan. New York University's Psychology Department mourns the loss of Dr. Joan Welkowitz who died February 11. Recently retired as Professor Emerita, she was on the NYU faculty for more than forty years and headed the Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology. In long association w
 BENINGSON--Renee. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Renee Beningson, whose deep commitment to our Women's Campaign strengthened the lives of millions in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband, Bob; her daugh
 BERS--Mary. 91, cherished wife of the late Litman Bers, died peacefully. A compassionate teacher, staunch liberal and enduring source of strength for her family. Survived by her children Ruth (Bob) Shapiro, Victor (Susan) Bers, her grandchildren, Ann (Dov) Scherzer and Naomi (Bruce) Langer,
 DUNCAN--Eileen Dawson. 77, on Thursday, February 16, 2006. Beloved mother of Kathleen Duncan; dear sister of Bro. John Lawrence Dawson, OSF. Native of Brooklyn; proud patriot and Socony Mobil worker in WW II. Funeral on Tuesday, February 21st, 10 AM, St. Charles Borromeo RC Church, Brooklyn
 HERBSTMAN--Lee D. Beloved wife of Benjamin, sister of Esther, mother of Martin and Frances, Charles and Sara, grandmother of Stacey and Craig, Beth, Julie, Benjamin and Connie, and Rachel, aunt of Robert and Barbara. We will miss her greatly. Graveside funeral Wellwood Cemetery, Sunday, Feb
 KATZMAN--Sara. On February 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Beverly Katzman and Shelley Katzman Selig; adored grandmother of Matthew Selig and Jane Selig Goldstein, loving great grandmother of Andrew and Emily Goldstein. She is also survived by her good friend Ro
 MAYER--Florence. Of Floral Park, NY, and Coconut Creek, FL, passed away peacefully on February 18, 2006. Florence was the former wife of the late Judge Harold Mayer. She is survived by her beloved husband Irving Grodin, loving daughter Carol Solomon and son-in-law Larry, grandchildren, Dr. 
 SHOLTZ--Bette. Adored sister of Peggy, lost her valiant battle with lung cancer on Wednesday, February 15. She was loved by many friends and relations including her ''little sister'' Marjorie, precious niece Lindsay, cousins Barry, Edward and the next generation of Leeds, Pollock and Beil. 
 TESSER--Jean. Our Woman of Valor. Beloved of the late Charles. Mother of Howard (Linda), Aaron (Adrienne), Don (Joan), Ronnie (Mac). Grandmother of nine, greatgrandmother of 13. She leaves an incredible legacy of love, strength and understanding for those of all ages who were fortunate to b
 WASSERMAN--Leonard. Beloved husband of Germaine, devoted father of Eric & father-in-law of Joan. Loving grandfather of Shanna Zuspan and her husband Jarrett & Evan Wasserman, dear brother of Phoebe, Robert, loving uncle to Alyson Miller and Gary Roberts. Veteran of WWII and a dedicated trad
 WASSERMAN--Rose. Age 85 in Reseda, CA. on February 12, 2006. Beloved sister of the late Harold Wasserman, aunt of Richard, Robert & Renee, great-aunt of Halle and Danielle. We cherish the memory of a truly remarkable gifted woman, her life long friendship, and her generosity of spirit. Esth
 WEISFOGEL--Esther, Dr. A distinguished obstetrician gynecologist, died February 9, 2006, in Boca Raton, FL, at the age of 80. She was a member of the International Society for the Study of Vulvo-Vaginal Diseases and of the Nassau County OB-GYN Society. Her specialization in vulvar diseases 
 Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing. She was 89 and ha
 BERS--Mary. 91, cherished wife of the late Lipman Bers, died peacefully. A compassionate teacher, staunch liberal and enduring source of strength for her family. Survived by her children Ruth (Bob) Shapiro, Victor (Susan) Bers, her grandchildren, Ann (Dov) Scherzer and Naomi (Bruce) Langer,
 COHEN--Fannie. A woman of valor. Devoted wife of the late Samuel Cohen. Beloved mother of Hanna and Julian, grandmother of Jeremy, Ava, Ali, and Julia, greatgrandmother of Sam and Billy. Loving mother-in-law of Pat and Jeffrey, grandmother-in-law of Kirsten, Bogart, Peter, and Darren. Born 
 DUNCAN--Eileen Dawson. 77, on Thursday, February 16, 2006. Beloved mother of Kathleen Duncan; dear sister of Bro. John Lawrence Dawson, OSF. Native of Brooklyn; proud patriot and Socony Mobil worker in WW II. Funeral on Tuesday, February 21st, 10 AM, St. Charles Borromeo RC Church, Brooklyn
 ELLIS--Anne Haskell. Of Middletown, NJ, and Palm Beach, FL, on February 14, 2006. Beloved wife of the late John Corson Ellis, and mother of Anne, John, Isobel and William. Sister of Hope Jones and Isabelle de Tomaso. Also survived by four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A memor
 KOERNER--Naomi. Of Scarsdale, NY. Died peacefully in her sleep on February 19, 2006. She was 77 years old. Born June 26, 1928, to Harry and Ceal Blumberg. She was the beloved mother of Alissa and Joshua, and a devoted grandmother to Hannah. She is also survived by her brother Lee Blumberg. 
 LEIFER--Violet. On Feburary 18, 2006. Beloved wife of Edgar. Loving mother of Dana. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Valia and Ian. Services private. $(6$)LEIFER--Violet. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Viole
 SPERBER--Pearl. Of The Bronx, NY, and Boca Raton, FL, On February 18, 2006. With profound sorrow, we announce the unexpected, tragic passing of our dear mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. Most beloved, devoted wife of Abe. She will always be cherished and remembered. Funeral informat
 STRONGIN--Estelle. 94 years old, died peacefully of heart failure, at her home on February 19, 2006. The widow of Dr. Harry Strongin, Estelle was the beloved over protective and hands-on mother of Anne Navasky and Landey Strongin, and very beloved and endlessly worried grandmother of Bruno,
 TSCHACBASOV -- Irene Ze von. Artist, muse, entrepreneur and philanthropist, died peacefully in her sleep Saturday, February 18. Beloved mother of Leonard Barton, devoted wife of the late Nahum Tschacbasov, sister of Fred Zivitofsky, and the late Martin Zivotovosky, sister-inlaw of Anne and 
 MORSE--Anne Mendelsohn, 93. In memory of our dear mother, who passed away a year ago, on February 20, 2005. A long-time Brooklyn resident, she and husband Julius (1999) are missed by their many friends, neighbors, and fellow folk-dancing enthusiasts. Anne was a self-taught artist, a voracio
 BACKLAR--Sylvia. On February 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Adored mother of Barbara Reis and James. Cherished grandmother of Rosalind, Michele, Samuel and Schuyler and great-grandmother of Sydney and Eli. She will be missed. Services Tuesday 1:15 P.M. at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Fl
 BLUMENTHAL--Ruth Magill. At home, on February 19. Wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother of James & Richard. Kindly mother-inlaw of Christine and Louise. Doting grandmother of Katherine & Fiona. For numerous years after her widowhood, loyal companion of the late Dr. Percy Klingenstein. In
 DEUTSCH -- Sylvia Alenky. Passed away February 18, 2006 at the age of 93. Devoted wife of the late Sam Deutsch, cherished mother of the late Tomi Deutsch Berney, mother in law of Stuart E. Berney, loving Mom-Moms of Dawn, Wendy, JJ and Kerri, adored great grandmother of Samantha, Tamara, Ja
 FINKELSTEIN--Kate (Kitty). On February 20, 2006. Beloved wife of Isidore. Cherished mother of Alayne and Dr. Sam Unterricht and Dr. David Finkelstein. Adored grandmother of Rachel, Allison & Stephanie. This beautiful lady will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Services are at ''Boule
 GIBBONS--Barbara E., 50. Died February 18, 2006. She is survived by her husband Richard, son Derek, brother Philipp, two sisters Gerda Menninger and Dorothy DeSimone. Visiting 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM Wednesday EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., Dobbs Ferry (exit 17, Saw Mill). Funeral S
 GREINER--Victoria. February 18, 2006. Beloved mother of Stephen (Marilyn) and the late Luise Greiner. Widow of Louis and longtime adored companion of the late Massimo Yezzi. Sister of Ann and Stephen. Loving grandmother of Lauren, Alison and Elizabeth. A woman of strong will and determinati
 MOFFETT--Melanie Dolan. Age 44, went to rest in the peace of Jesus, February 18, 2006, joining her sister Leah. She is survived by her loving husband of 19 years, James William, her parents, Marguerite & James Dolan, siblings, Michael, Peggy and Christopher, her in-laws, Mary and James Moff
 SPERBER--Pearl. Of The Bronx, NY, and Boca Raton, FL, On February 18, 2006. With profound sorrow, we announce the unexpected, tragic passing of our dear mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. Most beloved, devoted wife of Abe. She will always be cherished and remembered. Funeral informat
 STRONGIN--Estelle. 94 years old, died peacefully of heart failure, at her home on February 19, 2006. The widow of Dr. Harry Strongin, Estelle was the beloved over protective and hands-on mother of Anne Navasky and Landey Strongin, and very beloved and endlessly worried grandmother of Bruno,
 TSCHACBASOV -- Irene Ze von. Artist, muse, entrepreneur and philanthropist, died peacefully in her sleep Saturday, February 18. Beloved mother of Leonard Barton, devoted wife of the late Nahum Tschacbasov, sister of Fred Zivitofsky, and the late Martin Zivotovosky, sister-inlaw of Anne and 
 Jill Fraser, owner and artistic director of the Watermill Theater in Newbury, England, whose renown and influence far exceeds its size, died on Feb. 10. She was 59. Although she had been battling cancer for four years, Ms. Fraser died of pneumonia at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in 
 COHEN--Fannie. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President       
 FRANKLIN--Victoria. Vicky (Victoria) Franklin, died Friday, February 17 (at East Hill Woods, Southbury, CT). Wife of Norman, mother of Paul and Dan, grandma of Peter and Sara, loved by all who knew her. Remembrance gathering to be held in Spring.       
 GIBBONS--Barbara E., 50. Died February 18, 2006. She is survived by her husband Richard, son Derek, brother Philipp, two sisters Gerda Menninger and Dorothy DeSimone. Visiting 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM Wednesday EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., Dobbs Ferry (exit 17, Saw Mill). Funeral S
 GLASSMAN--Sylvia (Goldsmith). Beloved mother of Milton, Sheldon, Stanley (deceased), Jerome, Deborah, Seth, and Paul, and grandmother of Jed, Gregory, Daniel, Leah, and Zachary, left us on February 17. Extremely ill for years, she fought back time and again to share her life with her childr
 HORNBLASS--Betty. The Board of Directors of Keren OR mourn the passing of Betty Hornblass, mother of our President Dr. Albert Hornblass. May her soul rest in peace. Dr. Edward L. Steinberg, Chairman       
 LEVY--Joan (nee Garber). On February 18 in Miami, FL. Former resident of Wood bridge, CT. She is survived by son Jim, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, and daughters Julie, New York City, NY and Allison Jackson, WY. She inspired her children's achievements in fashion, theater and law. She will be deeply 
 MENDLE--Blanche. Passed away February 20, 2006, she was 91 years old. Beloved mother of Judith Konigsberg and Susan Tenser, loving grandmother to Matthew Feiner, Allison Feldman, Lyndsay Dowd and Jared Goldstein. Great grandmother to Colby Goldstein and Molly Feldman. We will miss her love 
 STRONGIN--Estelle. 94 years old, died peacefully of heart failure, at her home on February 19, 2006. The widow of Dr. Harry Strongin, Estelle was the beloved over protective and hands-on mother of Anne Navasky and Landey Strongin, and very beloved and endlessly worried grandmother of Bruno,
 ADLER--Geraldine Koeppel, died at peace on February 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late H. Henry Adler, M.D. Devoted mother of Edward A.K. Adler (Karen), Alyson Adler Green (William). Adoring grandmother of Alexander A. Green (Sarah), Heather A. Schoen (Frank), Courtenay A. Green and Trevor 
 BERKULE - Lee. Passed away February 21. Beloved wife, cherished grandmother, loving mother of Barry, Lloyd and Arlene. Grandmother of Erik, Samantha, David, Elizabeth and Amanda. We will always love you and miss you dearly. You will never leave our hearts. You will live forever for all the 
 CARDOZO--Rev. Abraham Lopes. The Joint Passover Association deeply mourns the passing of Rev. Abraham Lopes Cardozo, beloved husband of our Vice-President, Irma Lopes Cardozo. May she be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Stoler, President Sandra Brickman, Exec. Dir
 COLUMBO--Alicia. The Board of Trustees and the Maimonides Medical Center family mourn the passing of Alicia Columbo, mother of our esteemed colleague, Veronica Santilli, M.D. We extend our sincere condolences to Dr. Santilli and her extended family. Martin D. Payson, Chairman, Board of Trus
 COPLEY - Noma. Beloved companion of Flory Barnett passed away suddenly on February 22, 2006 in her 90th year. Friends are asked, in lieu of flowers, to donate to the Southern Poverty Law Center in memory of Noma.       
 FAHEY--Elizabeth K. Died peacefully of old age in her 98th year. A woman of grace she is survived by her son, Msgr. Charles J. Fahey of Fordham University and the Milbank Memorial Fund. Her life was celebrated with a Mass of the Resurrection at Loretto, Syracuse where she and her beloved hu
 KAUFMAN--Mabel. The full and generous life of Mabel Goldfarb Kaufman ended on February 9, but her memory will long remain with those who had the good fortune to know her. Born in New York City, she was the loving wife of Irving for 63 years; the nurturing mother of Alan and Marc; grandmothe
 MAGARIL--Alyce Matthews. On February 21. Beloved mother of Paul and Jonathan. Owner of the Matthews Group. She will be deeply missed and forever loved. Wien & Wien 1-800-322-0533       
 NITCHUN--Arleen. On February 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Nitchun. Loving mother of Joanne Sackett and Marc Nitchun. Cherished grandmother of King, Mia, Nick, Blaise, Mary, Darius, Terina, Miranda, Alyssa and Anna, and greatgrandmother of Nora, Nicholas, Lily, Daniela, Sammy, L
 PEEBLES--Bernice Mosbey, 89. Died on February 18 at Hearthstone Alzheimer's Center in Manhattan after a lengthy illness. Bernice grew up in Catskill, New York. She was a school teacher, elementary school principal and Adjunct Asst. Professor at Pace University. She traveled extensively thro
 ADLER--Geraldine Koeppel, died at peace on February 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late H. Henry Adler, M.D. Devoted mother of Edward A.K. Adler (Karen), Alyson Adler Green (William). Adoring grandmother of Alexander A. Green (Sarah), Heather A. Schoen (Frank), Courtenay A. Green and Trevor 
 BOEHM--Frances. Peacefully passed away, Tuesday, February 14, age 91. The supreme activist. Remembered for her boundless devotion to those she loved and the causes in which she believed. A long-time member of the Women's Strike For Peace and American Labor Party; a co-founder of the Five To
 FORSTER--Elizabeth E. (Lissa), 41. Died suddenly on February 20, 2006. Beloved daughter of Hamilton and Elizabeth Forster. Sister of Timothy H. Forster and Laura F. Bowman and in-laws of Diane and Peter. She was the bravest person we knew, coping with an always painful back and muscular dys
 FRIEDMAN--Rose. The extended family of The Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourns the loss of our beloved volunteer Gallery Educator. We extend love and support to her husband Nathan, our esteemed volunteer. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair David G. Marwell, Director 
 GELLIS--Edna Alperin. 95 years old, died on Febraury 23, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Harold Gellis. Devoted mother of Willard and Shirley Gellis, Ann Gellis and Maxine Grolnick Colchamiro and her husband Harvey. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth, Jenny, Peter and Edward. Cherished great gr
 GLASSMAN -- Sylvia (Gold smith). Beloved mother of Milton, Sheldon, Stanley (deceased), Jerome, Deborah, Seth, and Paul, and grandmother of Jed, Gregory, Daniel, Leah, and Zachary, left us on February 17. Extremely ill for years, she fought back time and again to share her life with her chi
 NITCHUN--Arleen. On February 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Nitchun. Loving mother of Joanne Sackett and Marc Nitchun. Cherished grandmother of King, Mia, Nick, Blaise, Mary, Darius, Terina, Miranda, Alyssa and Anna, and greatgrandmother of Nora, Nicholas, Lily, Daniela, Sammy, L
 PETROU--Lillian B. On February 22, 2006. Beloved wife of Dimitri. She will be sorely missed by her family and friends.       
 SIEGEL--Rose (105 years). Beloved wife of the late Milton M. Siegel, survived by her son David, three grandchildren and six great grandchildren. She lived a long, full life.       
 SILVERMAN--Bessie. Longtime Manhattanite. Born in Vilna, died February 22, 2006 at the age of 98. Her liveliness, her delight in reading, and her passion for the New York Yankees will be muched missed by her sons Kenneth and Alexander; her grandchildren Willa and Ethan; her great grandchild
 WEINER--Arline. Age 100 on February 22, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Henry Weiner, loving mother of Francine Walzer, cherished grandmother of Nicole & Michael Sager Smith and Jeremy & Paula Sager and great-grandmother of Molly, Sam, Julia and Jeffrey. She will live in our hearts forever. 
 GELLIS--Edna Alperin. 95 years old, died on Febraury 23, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Harold Gellis. Devoted mother of Willard and Shirley Gellis, Ann Gellis and Maxine Grolnick Colchamiro and her husband Harvey. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth, Jenny, Peter, Edward, Debbie, Wendy and Jud
 McKOY--Dr. Judith Fay, MD, Ph.D. Died on February 21, 2006. She is survived by her loving mother Barbara, father Vernon, sister Carol and brothers Anthony, Vernon and Roy. She also leaves behind nephews Jelani, Lee and niece Charlie-Joy. Visitation Wednesday, March 1, 4-8 PM, at Benta's Fun
 PETROU--Lillian B. On February 22, 2006. Beloved wife of Dimitri. She will be sorely missed by her family and friends.       
 ROARK--Mary E. Of New York City, died on October 31, 2005, age 81. Wife of Richard D. Thenebe. A Kentucky native, Mary graduated from Christian College in Columbia, Missouri with a degree in Music. In the early 1950's she moved to NYC where Robert Joffrey invited her to play for his ballet 
 Emilie Neumann Muse, who as a young woman exemplified the crazy, flamboyant competitiveness of the 20's and 30's by swimming in treacherous waters, wrestling alligators, jumping out of airplanes and being buried alive, died on Jan. 23 in East Patchogue, N.Y. She was 98. The cause wa
 AIBEL--Katherine Webster, AB Wells College MSW NYU School of Social Work, beloved wife of Howard, mother of David, Daniel and Jonathan, and grandmother of Lucien. She served in Stamford, CT schools, Person to Person, and Children in Placement as a guardian ad litem for children in the Conne
 BAREISS -- Molly (Mary) Stimson. Molly (Mary) Stimson Bareiss (1920-2006) was the soul that held our family together. She was a true, no nonsense Yankee with a generous heart, a gentle spirit and a fierce loyalty. She guarded the inner circle, was an excellent judge of character, and those 
 BIERMAN--Lillian A., 97. Died February 10, 2006. Wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Ruth Linnick (late Stuart), Dr. Charles, and the late Flo Starr. Loving grandmother of Mitch Linnick (Erica Teasley) and Cindy Linnick Goldstein (Todd). Adoring greatgrandmother of Spencer and Brooke
 BLUMENTHAL--Ruth Magill. At home, on February 19. Wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother of James & Richard. Kindly mother-inlaw of Christine and Louise. Doting grandmother of Katherine & Fiona. For numerous years after her widowhood, loyal companion of the late Dr. Percy Klingenstein. In
 GAJEWSKI--Ilene Magidson. On February 17. Loving friends mourn her untimely passing. She leaves behind loving husband Paul and precious son Caspar. Memorial service: Monday, February 27, 7:00 P.M., St. Joseph's Church, 371 6th Ave. Memorial fund being set for Caspar's higher education.     
 LEVY--Joan (nee Garber). On February 18 in Miami, FL. Former resident of Wood bridge, CT. She is survived by son Jim, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, and daughters Julie, New York City, NY and Allison Jackson, WY. She inspired her children's achievements in fashion, theater and law. She will be deeply 
 LIBERMAN--Maria. Died on February 19, 2006. Beloved wife, sister, aunt and friend to all who knew her. Holocaust survivor.       
 LUDEL -- Corinne (Kinny). Mother of Sue, Jackie, Bill. Grandmother of Sophie and Wally on February 24 in Santa Monica, CA. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to Cancer Care in her memory.       
 McKOY--Dr. Judith Fay, MD, Ph.D. Died on February 21, 2006. She is survived by her loving mother Barbara, father Vernon, sister Carol and brothers Anthony, Vernon and Roy. She also leaves behind nephews Jelani, Lee and niece Charlie-Joy. Visitation Wednesday, March 1, 4-8 PM, at Benta's Fun
 MULRANE--Mary Ann. Of Manhattan passed away January 25, 2006 after a brief illness. Born in New York City on May 5, 1947, Mary Ann was a lifelong resident who embraced all the pursuits this city has to offer. Ms. Mulrane was a passionate supporter of the arts, particularly of cinema, theate
 PETROU--Lillian B. On February 22, 2006. Beloved wife of Dimitri. She will be sorely missed by her family and friends.       
 ROARK--Mary E. Of New York City, died on October 31, 2005, age 81. Wife of Richard D. Thenebe. A Kentucky native, Mary graduated from Christian College in Columbia, Missouri with a degree in Music. In the early 1950's she moved to NYC where Robert Joffrey invited her to play for his ballet 
 ZECHER--Edith J. On February 24. Beloved wife of the late Nat. Mother of Peter and mother-in-law of Ronni. Grandmother of the beloved Chocolatte. Died peacefully in Tucson, AZ at age 85. She will be missed. Donations can be sent to Odyssey Hospice, 1730 East River Road, Tucson, AZ 85718.   
 CHOLAKIAN--Anna. May 9, 1962-February 26, 1996 A beautiful and gentle soul. In our hearts, always. Lovingly remembered by her husband, family and friends.       
 BLECHNER--Hannah (Darmstaedter). 84, on February 25 in Manhattan. Loving mother of Jane Bressler, Barbara Sevde, and Dr. Mark Blechner. Grandmother of Lee and Scott Bressler, Erin and Daphne Sevde. Sister of Eve Goldmann, Judith Darmstaedter, and Margaret Kahn. Born Frankfurt, Germany, Sept
 DESVIGNE--Lois McCalla. 77. On February 24, 2006. Pioneer educator for 32 years. Beloved teacher, principal and mentor. Devoted mother and wife. Survived by husband Lloyd of 57 years, five of her six children, six grandchildren, six great-grandchildren. Services March 2 and 3, J. Foster Phi
 LUDEL -- Corinne (Kinny). Mother of Sue, Jackie, Bill. Grandmother of Sophie and Wally on February 24 in Santa Monica, CA. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to Cancer Care in her memory.       
 Sybille Bedford, whose first novel won high praise among England's literary elite and earned her a place in its most celebrated and exclusive literary circles, died Feb. 17 at a hospital near her home in London. She was 94. Her death was announced by English PEN, part of the interna
 AULETTA--Kelli Anne, 38. Died on February 19, 2006 at home with her mother, Mary, father, Richard and sister, Kimberlee. Her smile and enthusiasm for life graced all who knew her. Memorial service Friday, March 3 at 2PM at St. Bartholomew's, Park Avenue and 50th Street. In lieu of flowers, 
 BIRNBAUM--Lillian ''Goodie'' Goode, 90. On February 26, 2006 of Pancreatic Cancer. A memorial service will be held at 11:30 AM on Wednesday, March 1 at Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76th St. Born in 1915 in Rochester, NY, she came to NYC to attend Beth Israel Hospital School of Nursing, earning 
 HERSHENSON - Rose. Fiercely independent, inscrutably honest, altruistic and unselfish. Died February 26, near 95 years old. Survived by son Jay, daughter-in-law Rebecca, grandchildren Bradley and Haley, brother Jack, and many family members. Her wishes: no visitations or service. In lieu of
 MEYER--Carol. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 NITCHUN--Phyllis. Beloved cousin of Mary Astor and Shirley Vorspan. Cherished by a large and loving extended family as a speech language therapist and diagnostician with the NYC Board of Education, she devoted her career to working with children in the NYC public schools. She will be rememb
 PALMER--Julia Reed, 90. Of New York City and Mt. Desert, Maine, on February 25, 2006, after a long life and a brief illness. Wife of the late Arthur E. Palmer, Jr. Beloved mother of Constance Hildesley, Lansing Palmer, Stewart Palmer and the late Susan Palmer, all of New York City. Devoted 
 SCHAUBER--Shirley. Died on February 23, 2006 in Florida. She is mourned by her sister Grace Feinman, her daughter Ellen, and her grandson Marc.       
 SHERR--Fannie. Died February 25, 2006 at the age of 93. She will be missed by all of her friends. A memorial service will be arranged at a later date. $(6$)SHERR--Fannie. Dear friend, rest now with the Gods. I always cared. Clara       
 STRONG--Diane Shalet. On February 23, 2006 in Palm Springs. Founder of the Actors and Writers Lab in Manhattan, she was a charter member of the Lincoln Center Repertory Theatre under the direction of Robert Whitehead and Elia Kazan. She taught acting at UCLA and was a teaching associate of 
