 Janet R. Whitman, former president and chairwoman of the Sheltering Arms foster care agency in New York, died on Sept. 25 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her son Charles S. Whitman III. Mrs. Whitman, who was an officer
 Janet Leigh, the demure but sexy blond movie star of the 1950's who will always be remembered for the 45-second shower scene in which she was slashed to death in Hitchcock's ''Psycho'' in 1960, died on Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 77. The cause was vasculitis, an inf
 JOYCE ACCIAIOLI RUDGE is happy to be off her feet. ''It's so good to sit down; man, it's the best,'' she says, relishing the downtime from a morning that began with 70 e-mail messages from Italy. Her legs are tucked underneath her on a wooden bench in Federal Hall National Memorial, the Gre
 Yang Huanyi, the last woman to communicate secretly with others in a rare script used exclusively by women, died Sept. 20 in her home in Hunan Province, China. She was believed to be in her late 90's. The New China News Agency reported her death, saying estimates of her age ranged f
 Barbara Schwei, a founder and the producer of the American Indian Dance Theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Manhattan. She was 57. The cause was breast cancer, according to Les Schecter, a friend. Born in Milwaukee, Ms. Schwei received her degree in theater from New Yor
 Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78. The cause was complicatio
 Caroline Lerner Goldsmith, a public relations executive specializing in the visual arts and a founder of influential arts organizations, died on Oct. 2 at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was metastatic melanoma, said her husband, John Frank Goldsmith. Interested
 Helen Gee, whose Limelight photography gallery in Greenwich Village in the 1950's became a pioneering blueprint for the offering and selling of photography as an art form, died on Sunday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 85. Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman. Spaciou
 Helen Gee, whose Limelight photography gallery in Greenwich Village in the 1950's became a pioneering blueprint for the offering and selling of photography as an art form, died on Sunday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 85. Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman. Spaciou
 Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla. She was 85. A resid
 Phyllis Williams Lehmann, an archaeologist and art historian known for reuniting the hand of one of the icons of Western art, the Winged Victory of Samothrace, with two of its long-lost fingers, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Haydenville, Mass. She was 91. The cause was congestive 
 Bernice Rubens, a prolific British novelist who drew on her Jewish upbringing and ill-fated marriage to tell stories of vice and grimness with warmth and even humor, died on Oct. 13 in London, British newspapers reported. She was 76. Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize
 Jane Meyerhoff, a philanthropist and collector who was a major donor of modern art, most of it American, died on Saturday in Baltimore. She was 80. The cause was complications of heart surgery, said her daughter, Rose Ellen Meyerhoff Greene. For nearly 50 years, Mrs. Meyerho
 Betty Hill, whose assertion that she was carried off by otherworldly beings in 1961 inspired a national obsession with alien abduction that remains a staple of American popular culture, died on Sunday at her home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 85. The cause was lung cancer, her niece K
 Carol H. Pitchersky, a former associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union who helped it overcome a potentially bankrupting deficit, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 57. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Morton H. Halperin, said. Ms. Pit
 Lilian Kallir, a pianist known for her elegant Mozart performances, both as a soloist and in duet recitals with her husband, the pianist Claude Frank, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. Her daughter, the violinist Pamela Frank, said the cause was ovarian cancer.   
 Terry Dintenfass, a longtime New York art dealer whose gallery brought together several currents from outside the mainstream of 20th-century art, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. Her death was reported by her son Andrew Dintenfass. For nearly 40 years th
 Sister Nancy Salisbury, longtime headmistress of New York's oldest independent school for girls, the Convent of the Sacred Heart, died on Sept. 27 in Atherton, Calif. She was 74. The cause was respiratory failure after a kidney infection, according to an announcement by the United S
