 Dominique de Menil, a connoisseur, art collector and creator with her husband, John, of the Menil Foundation in Houston, died yesterday at her home in Houston. She was 89. Mrs. de Menil and her husband, whose fortune came from oil-well technology, became widely known for commissioni
 COHEN-Esther Somer. We have lost a woman of dignity, grace and compassion. Our dear mother passed away December 30. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband Leo and dear son Nick. Survived by her loving children Barbara and Robert, adored grandchildren Linda, Peter, Lisa and Tom and cherished gr
 COOK-Jean L. The Trustees of The Browning School and the entire Browning community mourn the passing of Jean L. Cook, wife of Charles Cook, Headmaster Emeritus whose 60-year affiliation with Browning included 36 years of distinguished service as Headmaster. She was a strong, caring and impo
 d'ANCONA-Carolyn Tilles. On December 29, 1997. Widow of the late Benjamin d'Ancona. Her courage in the face of long term and severe disabilities was very special. Her intelligence and her musical and acting talents were considerable. She is survived by her brother, Bud Tilles, her niece and
 DORFF-Suzanne Booth. Age 50, Fargo Lane, Irvington, New York, died December 31, 1997 after a long illness. She lived in Irvington since 1978 with her family and was very active in community and school affairs and in life itself. She most recently participated in the family construction busi
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 MAYNE-Sylvia. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend died on December 30, 1997. With a passion for life and a love of family and friends, her gifts will inspire those who knew her. She was an ardent supporter of the Metropolitan Opera, The Holocaust Museum, United Jewish Appeal, and Temple 
 MEYER-Sandra W. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, sister, daughter and aunt. She will always be loved and remembered for the extraodinary person she was. Memorial service 4 PM, on Monday, January 19, Lincoln Center Theater, New York, NY. The family will be receiving visitors at 271 
 ROBBINS-Stephanie. December 30, 1997, we mourn the death of Stephanie Robbins, she will always be loved and remembered. Services 10 A.M., Friday, January 2, Hannerman Funeral Home, Nyack, New York. The Korman Family       
 ROTHENBERG-Susan. We at the National Jewish Outreach Program are shocked and deeply bereaved by the sudden and untimely passing of Susan Rothenberg, our dear friend, beloved co-worker and brilliant computer expert. For most of the 9-1/2 years that she was with NJOP, she and her dear sister,
 TAFT-Norma Pike. Age 75, died Dec 31, 1997 after a long illness, borne with her customary dignity, grace and good humor. Devoted wife for 54 years of Nathaniel B. Taft, national health care lawyer, beloved mother of Charles E. and Stephen P., and adored grandmother of Benjamin, Joshua, and 
 Sandra W. Meyer, a pioneering marketing executive who was part of the inspiration for the long-running Broadway drama ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. She was 60 and the cause of death was breast cancer, her family said. Mrs. Meyer held se
 CAYTEN-Stephanie Hoffman, 41, of Exeter, N.H., on December 30, 1997. Beloved wife of Thomas, mother of Gareth Rhys (3) and Cordelia (5). Attorney, Chairman of the Board of Nurture and Nature Childcare Center and Board Member of Riverwoods, died in her sleep and is in heaven.       
 DORFF-Suzanne Booth. Age 50, Fargo Lane, Irvington, New York, died December 31, 1997 after a long illness. She lived in Irvington since 1978 with her family and was very active in community and school affairs and in life itself. She most recently participated in the family construction busi
 KAPLAN-Ruth W. Loving wife of Arthur B., and mother of Peter and Donald. Hers was a life of love and tenderness.       
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 MEYER-Sandra W. The Board of Directors, musicians and staff of the Orchestra of St. Luke's note with great sadness the passing of our longtime Board Member and friend, Sandra W. Meyer. A highly successful businesswoman and committed supporter of our city's cultural life, she was involved, o
 SIEGLER-Muriel. In Lake Worth, FL. Beloved wife of the late Henry Siegler. Loving mother of Richard and Brenda. Adoring grandmother of Lauren and Eric Muhlheim. Great-grandmother of Henry Muhlheim. Funeral services Sunday, 12 noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vern
 TAFT-Norma Pike. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 VALENTINI-Parvin. On January 1, 1998. She is survived by her son and daughter, Edward and Jennifer, her mother, and her seven brothers and sisters. Family will receive friends today 7-9 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian burial Saturday 10AM, St.
 Helen Wills Moody, arguably the most dominant tennis player of the 20th century and the first American-born woman to achieve international celebrity as an athlete, died Thursday at a convalescent home in Carmel, Calif. She was 92 and had been in failing health for several years.    
 GOLDBERG-Bessie. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 KANTER-Theresa A. Age 94. Died January 2, 1998 in Great Neck, New York, leaving daughter Anita, grandsons Carl and Marc, four great grandchildren and her brother Myron.       
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 KILROE-Helen Marguerite. On January 2, 1998. Beloved sister of Mary Purcell and the late Catherine C. Dunne. Also survived by her nieces and nephews Eileen Ehntholt, Kathleen Dunne, William Purcell, Patricia Barnes, Sheila Sechler and John Purcell. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Ho
 MEYER-Sandra W. The Board of Trustees of Guild Hall of East Hampton mourn the irreparable loss of Sandra W. Meyer, an exemplary public citizen and long time trustee whose distingished service as Chair of the Guild Hall Strategic Planning Committee was responsible for the resurgence of easte
 MILLER-Kathryn Cameron, 71. Died January 2, 1998. K. was born on April 25, 1926 at the home of her parents Ewen Charles Donald Cameron, and Jeanette Rogers Cameron in AuSable Forks, New York. She attended the Madeira School, Vassar College, and later the Powers Modeling Agency School of Pho
 SIEGLER-Muriel. In Lake Worth, FL. Beloved wife of the late Henry Siegler. Loving mother of Richard and Brenda. Adoring grandmother of Lauren and Eric Muhlheim. Great-grandmother of Henry Muhlheim. Funeral services Sunday, 12 noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vern
 BIE-COMNENE-Irene. On January 2, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Rolf Bie-Comnene and the late Aurelio Corsani. She was the proud daughter of Nicolas Petrescu Comnene. Friends may call on Saturday, January 10, 1998, 2-5 P.M. and 7-9 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Stre
 De MENIL-Dominique. The Trustees and staff of Dia Center for the Arts note with great sadness the passing of our beloved Trustee, Dominique De Menil. We'll miss her guiding hand, keen judgement and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to her children, grandchi
 DREITZER-Shirley Wolff Cohen. The Directors of the Dreitzer Foundation express sadness at the death of our co-director. We extend our sympathy to her daughters Stephanie and Kathleen and to the entire family. Judith D. Wallach, Chair       
 FIGMAN-Anne Behrens. On December 30, 1997 in her 91st year. Beloved wife of Dr. Louis H. Figman. Cherished mother of Dr. Myles Behrens and Susan Borkow and dear mother-in-law of Marsha Behrens and Dr. Stephen Borkow. Loving grandmother of Allan and Renee Borkow, Adam Behrens and Michael Bor
 HIRSCH-Pearl. December 24, 1997. Treasured and beloved by her husband Sidney and her sons Sanford, Howard, Brian Davis, Mark and Bert Hirsch and their wives. Cherished by her sisters, brother, grandchildren and greatgrandchild. Respected by all who were privileged to know her.       
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 MAYNE-Sylvia. We mourn the untimely passing of our longtime cooperator, Sylvia. Our condolences to Gary and Ron. We'll miss her smiling face. The Sandpiper at Westhampton Beach, Inc. Judy Rosenblum, President       
 MERTENS-Helen H. Died peacefully on December 30, 1997 at her home in Durham, NC. She was 87. In lieu of flowers a contribution in her name can be sent to the Sarah P. Duke Gardens, Box 90626, Durham, NC 27708-0626.       
 MEYER-Sandra W. The National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations marks with sadness the passing of our constant supporter and much admired friend. Her grace and courage have been an inspiration to us all. Amy Langer, Executive Director The NABCO Board of Directors       
 MILLER-Dorothy. On January 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Loving stepmother of Ira, Martin and Jerry. Dear stepgrandmother and step-greatgrandmother. Services Sunday, 1:30 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her name can be made to Plays For Living, In
 O'CONNOR-Marie. The Administration, Staff and Sales Associates of Charles H. Greenthal Residential Sales and the Greenthal Group of Companies mourn the sudden passing of our respected colleague and friend, Marie O'Connor. Her professionalism, charm and kindness touched all who knew her. To 
 SAUNDERSON-Louise Astor Van Alen. December 30, 1997 in Santa Barbara, CA. Born 1910 in New York City. Daughter of the late James L. Van Alen and Margaret Post Van Alen Bruguiere. She is survived by Alexander Saunderson, her beloved husband of 50 years; a brother, William L. Van Alen; 3 neph
 SCHNEIDER-Ruth (nee Anhang). It is with great sadness that we record the passing of Ruth Schneider in New York on December 10, 1997 (11 Kislev 5758) after a 28year battle with scleroderma. Despite the near-constant pain and suffering, she courageously and with great determination led an act
 SIEGLER-Muriel. In Lake Worth, FL. Beloved wife of the late Henry Siegler. Loving mother of Richard and Brenda. Adoring grandmother of Lauren and Eric Muhlheim. Great-grandmother of Henry Muhlheim. Funeral services Sunday, 12 noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vern
 SUTTON-Ione U. January 2, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George W. Sutton, Jr. Loving sister of Alice Ulrich Jennings of Lansing, MI. Devoted aunt of Richard L. Spaulding, John Jennings, David Jennings, Robert Jennings, Eleanore McGrain and Helen Lockwood. Her career spanned many years in N
 ALT-Dorothy. On January 3, at age 95. Wife of the late Mannie Alt. Mother of Stanley A. and Susan Alt and the late Bernard Alt. Grandmother of five; great-grandmother of five. Services Monday, January 5, 12:45 PM, Gutterman's, 175 North Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre. ALT-Dorothy
 De MENIL-Dominique. The Trustees and staff of Dia Center for the Arts note with great sadness the passing of our beloved Trustee, Dominique De Menil. We'll miss her guiding hand, keen judgement and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to her children, grandchi
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 KRAMER-Evelyn. On January 2, 1998. Wife of Seymour. Mother of Ann and Mark. Loving grandmother of Michael and Daniel. Sister of Joseph Feldman. Her's was a life of love and tenderness.       
 LESHEN-Stella (Jacobs). On January 3, 1998, in her 97th year. Devoted mother of Herbert and Geri Jacobs, Rochelle and Marvin Schwartz, and the late Roslyn and Leon Gray. Dear sister of Frieda and Harry Gensler. Cherished grandmother, great-grandmother and great-great-grandmother. Services M
 MOKARZEL-Yemna Helen. Died January 2, 1998. Daughter of Salloum and Helen Kalil Mokarzel. She is survived by her sisters Mary Mokarzel and Alice Jaoudi, and many loving nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by her sisters Rose Tanous and Lila Hatab. She attended Columbia University School
 POWELL-Blanche (nee Rauch). Beloved wife of the late Albert. Devoted mother of Joan and Arnold Kerzner of Belmont, MA. Dear grandmother of Jeffrey, Leslie and Stephen. Also survived by many loving friends. Donations in her memory to NCJW Forest Hills Section.       
 ROBBINS-Marcella Stark. 73, formerly of Rockville Centre and New York City. Died unexpectedly January 3 at her home in Ithaca, NY. Loving wife of Allan. Beloved mother of Peter, Helen, Anne and Jim. Adored Nana of Rebecca and David. Cherished aunt, greataunt and great-greataunt. Funeral ser
 SUTTON-Ione U. January 2, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George W. Sutton, Jr. Loving sister of Alice Ulrich Jennings of Lansing, MI. Devoted aunt of Richard L. Spaulding, John Jennings, David Jennings, Robert Jennings, Eleanore McGrain and Helen Lockwood. Her career spanned many years in N
 Billie Dove, one of the most beautiful stars of silent films, died on Dec. 31 in the hospital of the Motion Picture and Television Fund in Los Angeles. She was 97 and lived in the fund's retirement community. A former Ziegfeld Follies dancer, she played a leading role in dozens of  
 AUERBACH-Barbara Kilby, 77. Of Brookline, MA. Died on Friday January 2 after a long illness. Ms. Auerbach was a graduate of Radcliffe College who had a career in market research and a deep love of the cultural and intellectual life of NYC, where she lived most of her life. Ms. Auerbach, wid
 BANACKI-Charlotte. On January 4, 1998. Beloved aunt of Justin Ruiz. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Tuesday January 6, 5-9pm. Memorial Mass Wednesday, 1 pm at St Jean Baptiste, Lexington Ave at 76th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may 
 BRODIE-Ruth. Died 1/3/98. She is survived by her daughter, Susan Aminoff and son, Hal Brodie, and her three grandchildren, Matthew Aminoff, Johanna Aylsworth, and Sam Brodie. Her determination and courage were an inspiration to us all.       
 De MENIL-Dominique. The Trustees and staff of Dia Center for the Arts note with great sadness the passing of our beloved Trustee, Dominique De Menil. We'll miss her guiding hand, keen judgement and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to her children, grandchi
 GOLUB-Pearl Sara (Fader). On January 3, 1998, of Riverdale, NY, beloved wife of the late Irving, devoted mother of Harvey, Eugene B., and the late Morton, also survived by ten grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. Relatives, friends are invited to graveside services Thursday 10:30 A.
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 LLOYD-Maria Shefeluk. Born in Minneapolis, Minn on June 8, 1922. Her parents, both deceased, were Thomas and Catherine Shefeluk. She began studying violin at age five. She attended Minneapolis College of Music, where she studied with Harold Ayres, then concertmaster of the Minneapolis Symph
 MACK-Lisa. Cherished daughter of Arien Mack and the late Robert Mack, passed away on Thursday, January 1, 1998. Her loveliness, her affection for all living creatures, her love of truth and knowledge, and her extraordinary courage will continue to enrich the lives of all who knew her. The m
 MANDEL-Sarah Lessin, 89. On January 4th. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Charles Mandel. Adored mother of Marian Bauer and Dr. Mark (Sheryl) Mandel. Cherished grandmother of Dr. Diane (Eric) Orlinsky, Lauren (Daniel) Zinman, Karen Mandel, Adam Mandel and David Bauer. Loving great grandmother o
 McCARTY-Minna R., 88. Died peacefully January 5, 1998 at home in Manhattan. Travel Counselor Pres, Park Plaza Travel, Inc. Member 41-74 Club. Red Cross Volunteer overseas WW II. Deeply admired by all who knew her.       
 MEYER-Sandra W. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extends its most heartfelt condolences to the family of Sandra Meyer. As a member of the Foundation's Advisory Board, Sandra offered invaluable and wise counsel at every opportunity in the pursuit of conquering this disease. Her passing 
 RICKLIN-Fay. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Fay Ricklin, beloved mother of Gwen M. Greene, a member of the Wall Street Division Steering Committee, co-chair of the Wall Street Women's Forum and an exemplary leader in our organization. We extend our deepest s
 SAUNDERSON-Louise Astor Van Alen. December 30, 1997 in Santa Barbara, CA. Born 1910 in New York City. Daughter of the late James L. Van Alen and Margaret Post Van Alen Bruguiere. She is survived by Alexander Saunderson, her beloved husband of 50 years; a brother, William L. Van Alen; three 
 TIGER-Elinor (nee Hamburg). Aged 89, died December 31, 1997 at her home in West Orange, New Jersey. BA Wellesley College 1930; MS NYU 1932. Married to Howard Lang Tiger in 1932. Survived by a sister, Joan H. Weisl of NYC; two daughters: Madeline Tiger of Montclair, NJ and Barbara Tiger Rube
 ZENTNER-Lee. 73 years old on January 4, 1998 of unexpected complications from Parkinson's disease. Formely of Cleveland and Scarsdale. Former Hadassah President, business woman, mentor. Fiercely loved and loving mother of Lesley Dormen and Scott Dormen, wife of David Zentner, cherished moth
 de MENIL-Dominique. Dominique de Menil was a great friend and a constant source of hope and courage for the Children's Storefront School in Harlem. She understood what we do and her infinite compassion and practical ways of dealing with oppression were visionary and kind. The children, the 
 FOREMAN-Margaret (nee Heydecker), 79. Of North Granby CT, formerly of Pelham Manor, N.Y. Widow of Charles W.L. Foreman. Died Sunday, Jan. 4. She leaves a daughter Judy Foreman of Cambridge, MA., and a son William Foreman of Ludlow, VT and three grandchildren. Memorial services will be held 
 GOLUB-Pearl. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the passing of Pearl Golub, beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. We offer our sincere condolences to her sons, Harvey (Roberta) and Eugene (Arlene), and the 
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 LIEBOWITZ-Florence. Temple Israel of Lawrence, New York mourns the death of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to her family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 LIFF-Helen. One week before her 76th birthday. Beloved wife of Ben for 55 years. Loving mother of Madeline, Mark and Michael. Adored grandmother of Jessica, Alan, Jeremy, Lauren, Stephanie and Noah. Services Wednesday, 10AM, Parkside, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue.       
 LLOYD-Marie. The Board of Directors of the William Matheus Sullivan Foundation acknowledges with great sadness the death of their friend and colleague, Marie Lloyd. She played a significant part in the growth and effectiveness of the Foundation in nurturing the careers of young American sin
 MILBANK-Helen Kirkpatrick, 88. Journalist, war correspondent and author, died Monday, Dec. 29, 1997, at her home in Williamsburg, VA. The daughter of the late Lyman B. Kirkpatrick, Sr., and Lyde Paull Kirkpatrick, she was born in Rochester, New York, October 18, 1909. A Phi Beta Kappa gradu
 ROSEN-Ida S. Age 91. Of Manchester, N.H. on January 4, 1998 after a short illness. Born in Chelsea, MA. Daughter of Jacob and Sarah (Goldberg) Horenstein. Widow of Israel A. Rosen. Survived by two sons, Morton R. Rosen of Manchester, N.H., Charles E. Rosen of New York City; two brothers, Mi
 Mae Questel, a rubber-voiced veteran of stage, screen and vaudeville who played Woody Allen's mother in ''New York Stories'' and was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Ms. Questel was 17 and living in the South Bronx w
 CLARK-Hazel K. Former alumni office director at Deerfield Academy. On December 29, 1997 in Rancho Palos Verdes, CA. She was the widow of Chester A. Clark, mother of John of Palos Verdes Estates, CA. A memorial service will be held Friday, January 9, at the South Deerfield Congregational Chu
 FEYER-Elizabeth. On January 6th, 1998, age 93. An extraordinary woman. Survived by Emery, her beloved husband, and by Tom, Cathy, Andrew and Laura; Ronnie, Alan, Barry and Marta; Fiorenza and Olga.       
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 KASSNER-Bertha. Died January 7, 1998 at the age of 100 in NYC. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Kassner. Loving mother of Henrietta Feinerman, Bella Baron, Rita Ulman, the late Lila Rosenberg and sister of Max (and Georgia) Zimmer. Devoted mother-inlaw of William Feinerman, the late Daniel Ba
 LLOYD-Maria. The Board of Directors of the Marcella Sembrich Opera Museum mourns the death of our great friend, Maria Lloyd. Her husband, David Lloyd, is a former President of our Museum in Bolton Landing (New York) on Lake George, and Mrs. Lloyd was an invaluable supporter of our efforts f
 McKELVEY-Jean T. We are immensely saddened by the death of Jean T. McKelvey of Rochester, New York, a superb teacher, arbitrator of labor disputes and mediator. She was the first woman president of the National Academy of Arbitrators and that recognition opened the door for others. She was 
 POLLENS-Evelyn, born February 4, 1904, Bronx, NY died in New York City. Much loved sister, aunt, teacher, friend, long an Assistant Principal in New York City schools. Beloved and admired for her intelligence, for her fierce love and concern for family, for students, for fairness and decenc
 RUSKAY-Shira. On Jan. 6, 1998. At the age of 52. A remarkable woman. Accomplished in the fields of Special Education, Law (Assistant U.S. attorney), and Social work. Since 1989, A Clinician and Social Work Coordinator for the Visiting Nurse Service Hospice, who also maintained a private pra
 SCHINDLER-Ilse. Born Poland, September 1, 1920. Died January 6, 1998. Survivor of the Holocaust. Survived by nephew Horst (Esther) Schindler and family of Sao Paulo, Brazil; Nephew Joel (Gayle) Schindler, of West Orange, New Jersey; Great nieces Abbe Schindler, of New York City, and Margali
 SIROTA-Donia Rudoy. January 6, at The Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged. Long time resident of Brooklyn and Co-op City. Beloved wife of Charles; sister Rachel; children Shirley and David, four grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Services will be held at the Dix Hills Chapel of I.
 BIE-COMNENE-Irene. January 2, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Rolf Bie and the late Aurelio Corsani. She was the proud daughter of Nicolas Petrescu Comnene. Friends may call on Saturday, January 10, 1998, from 2-5 P.M. and 7-9 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Se
 BRYANT-Minnie Dick. Age 94. Passed away (as she lived) with dignity, on January 8th, surprising no one by waiting for a warm day in winter before joining her late husband Harry. Mrs. Bryant defined liberated woman decades before the phrase ever appeared in print, and leaves a legacy of love
 COOPER-Ruth. On January 6, in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Devoted mother of Sheila Cooper-Hanna and Roger. Cherished grandmother of Zachary Cooper. Loving sister of Belle Walker and Herman Springer. A private celebration of her life will be held by her immediate family. Sh
 DEGEN-Joan Edith. Beloved wife of the late Jerome; loving mother of Jill and Glen Pohs and the late Jon Benson Degen; adoring grandmother of Lara and Jamie Pohs; devoted sister of Jerold and Sylvia Granatoor; loving aunt and cousin. Graveside service Sunday, 10:30AM at Cedar Park Cemetery. 
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 LADERMAN - Bess. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Mierle Ukeles on the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LOPATO-Dr. Esther W. On January 7, 1998, after a long and determined battle with illness. She lived her life with gusto, guts and a sense of humor. She treasured her family and friends, and served her community with tremendous energy and devotion. Survived by her children Leslie and David, 
 RUSKAY-Shira. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum express profound sadness at the death of Shira Ruskay, an exceptional person much admired for her beauty and spirituality. Our sincere condolences to her husband John, a former member of The Jewish Museum Board through his position a
 SANGER-Lilen. On January 8, 1998. In loving tribute to Lilen Sanger. Cherished mother of Sirgay. Loving mother-in-law of Judy. Sister-in-law of Ethel. Grandmother of Terry, Vicky. Great grandmother of James. Adoring aunt of Mitzi, Patricia, Liam, Cyrena, Stephany, Jonathan, Elizabeth, Gail,
 TUKEY-Elizabeth Rapp, 77. Died peacefully January 6 in Princeton, New Jersey from breast cancer. Preservationist, antiques expert, guider of the young. Cherished wife of husband John, beloved by sister Phyllis Anscombe, three nephews, one niece, two grandnieces. The lifelong blessing of her
 WALLACH-Phyllis. The officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers mourn the loss of a revered officer, a remarkable teacher, a respected pension expert and a beloved colleague and friend. She served her union and all its members brilliantly as a teacher member of the Retirement
 WILSON-Gwendolen (Mrs. Don B). Almost 88. Died unexpectedly, but quickly Saturday, January 3, 1998 at NYU Hospital after short illness this Fall. This followed a long, and very full active life throughout the world. An ardent New Yorker at heart, she was active in many local organizations, 
 ZELENSKY-Jewel. On January 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Samuel, dear sister of Lucille Jason, loving aunt and great-aunt of many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grandnephews. Cherished friend. Service Fri, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. ZELENSKY-Jewel. Park 
 ELLIOTT-Nancy Miller. Jazz photographer extraordinaire. A rare and special soul has joined G-d's flock above. Now reunited with her beloved Buck Clayton, heaven will surely swing. Danny-mite       
 GOTTLIEB-Bertha. Round Dune mourns the death of our cherished member and longtime neighbor. To her sons, Samuel and Robert, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memories bring comfort to all who mourn.       
 HODES-Anne R. At age 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Horace L. Hodes. Loving mother of Ruth Rabin and Dr. David Hodes. Adored grandmother of Betsy Rabin Gabay, Laura and Elizabeth Hodes, and the late Thomas Rabin. Great grandmother of Thomas and Benjamin Gabay. Valued community leader of t
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 KIRSCH-Ida. On January 9, 1998, in her 101st year. Beloved mother of Sylvia and Leslie Berger, Lillian and Bernard Frankel, Robert and Angie Kirsch. Cherished grandmother of Leonard and Diana Frankel, Paul and Barbara Frankel, Joel and Jodi Berger, Bonnie and Scott Canner, Alecia and Charle
 KOYCE-Mary (nee Petrie). Of Morristown, NJ, on Thursday, January 8, 1998. Wife of John P. Koyce, Jr, mother of Patricia Wanniski of Morris Twp, NJ, sister of Donald, John, Alexander,and Robert Petrie. She was a secretary at Dancer Fitzgerald & Sample Advertising Agency in New York City from
 RUSKAY-Shira. The administration, faculty, students and boards of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the death of Shira Ruskay, beloved wife, mother, daughter and sister. Our hearts go out to her husband, our friend and former vice chancellor John Ruskay; her parents, JTS al
 SANGER-Lilen. Died on January 8, 1998 at New York Hospital in her 91st year from complications following emergency surgery. It was her first major illness. She was the cherished mother of Sirgay and mother-in-law of Judy. The loving sister-in-law of Ethel and grandmother of Terry and Vicky.
 SHELDON-Edna Ether. 1898-1998. Longtime resident of New York City. Collector of postcards and Americana. Died at her daughter Edna's home in San Diego on Thursday, January 8. She is survived by her daughter Edna V. Deodato, and her son Ronald L. Wohleking, of El Paso, and 13 grandchildren. 
 ZEIBERT-Mollye. On January 7, 1998 in Ridgewood, New Jersey. Dear Aunt Mollye, we loved you and will miss you greatly. She was the beloved sister of Larry Zeibert and the late Jack, Irving and David Zeibert and the late Edith Freedman. She was the devoted aunt of Joyce Apsel, of Ridgewood, 
 Lia Manoliu, a worldly woman who threw the discus for Romania in six Olympic Games and won the gold medal in 1968, died on Friday in a hospital in Bucharest. She was 65. Hospital officials said the cause was a heart attack. They said she went into a coma on Dec. 31 during surgery fo
 ALTMAN-Helen, 90. Beloved wife of the late Ollie. Adored mother of Joyce and 9 grandchildren. 9 great grandchildren. She was a fabulous lady and will be greatly missed.       
 DEGEN-Joan Edith. Beloved wife of the late Jerome; loving mother of Jill and Glen Pohs and the late Jon Benson Degen; adoring grandmother of Lara and Jamie Pohs; devoted sister of Jerold and Sylvia Granatoor; loving aunt and cousin. Graveside service Sunday, 10:30AM at Cedar Park Cemetery. 
 FREUDENBERG-Irma Strauss. January 5, 1998, age 94. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. She will be missed by her many friends.       
 GIRDLER-Helen Bryant, 88. Of Boca Raton, Florida. Died on Monday, January 5 at Boca Raton Community Hospital. Mrs. Girdler was born in St. Louis, Missouri, lived for many years in Montclair, New Jersey and moved to Florida in 1964. She is survived by her two sons, R. Bryant Girdler of Boca 
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 MEYERS-Marlene Hope. On January 9 in New York City. Beloved friend and companion of Rosemarie Feigl. Also survived by her uncle, aunts and cousins. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.       
 PICARIELLO - Suzan. Beloved friend, colleague, sister, daughter, wife and mother. Died in a plane crash in Indonesia December 19, 1997. Memorial mass St. Andrews R.C. Church, Foley Square, New York, January 12th at 10AM. PICARIELLO-Suzan. On Silk Air Flight MT 185. Suzan with the la
 SANGER-Lilen. Died on January 8, 1998 at New York Hospital in her 91st year from complications following emergency surgery. It was her first major illness. She was the cherished mother of Sirgay and mother-in-law of Judy. The loving sister-in-law of Ethel and grandmother of Terry, his wife 
 SHAPIRO-Lilly Langsam. Died on January 5th, 1998, leaving a void in the lives of all she touched. A Hunter College graduate, she was a brave, intelligent and generous woman. Predeceased by her sister, Helen Schleien. She is survived by a brother, Kenneth Langsam, devoted daughter, Susan Gar
 FOX-Margaret. Beloved mother of Norman Fox and Alan Parker; grandmother of Kim Fox, Steven Fox, Natalie Parker and Adam Parker. She will be sorely missed.       
 Dr. Jean Trepp McKelvey, who hurdled gender barriers in the field of labor-management mediation and opened the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, died on Jan. 5 at the Kirkhaven Nursing Home in her hometown of Rochester. She was 89. She taught at Sarah L
 ALT-Johanna Goldmann. A long time resident of Queens, NY. Died January 1 in Fairfax, VA. Born in Lowenberg, Germany. Widow of Felix Alt. Mother of Mia (Miriam) Gardiner and Eva Sherwood. She is also survived by five grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, nephews and a niece and their famil
 BLUM-Phyllis. Beloved wife of Harry, devoted mother of Lillian and Marty. She will be dearly missed by her family and friends. Services are today at 10 A.M., at Kirschenbaum's, 1700 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn BLUM-Phyllis. The Board of Directors and Staff of Family Focus Adoption
 BRUDER-Margaret Anne (nee Harron) ''Peggy Anne'' on January 11, 1998 of Villanova, PA peacefully at her home in Villanova, PA and Longport, NJ. Devoted mother of Margaret Anne Bruder, Jennifer Marie Bruder and James J. Bruder Jr. Loving daughter of Margaret E. (nee Harper) and the late Paul
 DUBERSTEIN-Sylvie B., 85. Formerly of Brooklyn, died January 12, 1998 in Kingston, NY. Wife of Louis Emanuel Duberstein, mother of Mrs. Lucy Goldfarb and her husband Dr. Ned M. Goldfarb and the late Seth Franklin Duberstein. Funeral services and burial will be in Kingston, NY on Wednesday. 
 KELLY-Nancilee Davis. Artist, Morgan car owner, and colorist for the carpet industry, died on January 9, 1998 at her Lookout Mtn., TN home. She was V.P. of Kelly Group and member of color Mktg. Group, M.C.C.D.C., 3/4 Club, Hunter Museum, Houston Museum of Dec. Arts, and Square 1. She formed
 MANNERS-Elizabeth A. (nee Crompton) On January 12, 1998. Employee of TWA serving 40 plus years before retiring as Director. She was the first woman Salesperson of the Year and checked in the first TWA international flight. Beloved wife of the late John L. and Seymour G. Pond, loving mother 
 MCDERMOTT-Mary Jane (nee Bohan). On January 12, 1998. Born on Feb. 2, 1907, County Leitrim, Ireland. Beloved wife of Thomas McDermott, deceased. Cherished mother of Dermod Patrick, deceased, Thomas Patrick and Geraldine Mary McDermott Pender. Dear mother-in-law of Shukuko McDermott, Maria M
 OSMUNDSEN-Lita S. On January 9th, 1998, beloved wife of John; loving mother of Jonathan and Mirjana; grandmother of Meaghan Kate Dougherty; daughter of Irvin Binns and the late Evadne Parchment; sister of Roger and Heather Habeger and widow of the late Paul Fejos. A beautiful woman, fine mi
 TONKIN-Celina. On January 11, 1998. Survived by her husband Joseph Tonkin, four daughters, eight grandchildren, one greatgrandchild and many dear friends ... most notably Robert Tompkins. Services Wednesday, January 14, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 Street. Interment to follow
 Helen Haje, a Washington public relations woman who championed Arab-American interests with such good-natured fervor that she became gadfly and godmother to the Arab-American movement in the United States, died on Monday at a hospital near her home in Washington. She was 74. Her fam
 BUTLER-Kathleen. Died January 10, 1998, at The Meadow Lakes Retirement Community in Hightstown, NJ. Born January 4, 1914 in New York City and educated in NYC schools. She attended Hunter College High School and Drake Business College. Mrs. Butler resided in Little Silver, NJ and in Silver S
 CHARLTON - Regina (nee Wynne), on January 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Merrill. Loving sister of Sylvia Cook and the late Edwin Wynne. Cherished friend of Dan Berlinghoff. Also survived by her nephew Eric L. Wynne. Memorial service Friday, 3 P.M. at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and 
 COWARD-Marion W. (Vanessa). Of Bedford, New York on January 4, 1998 at 99-1/2. She was the last survivor of the ''White'' sisters, ie. Katharine W. Caulkins and Jane S.W. Canfield. She is survived by one of her two daughters, Jenifer (Gregg) Sims and 3 grandchildren, Peter and Jenifer Sims 
 de GRAAFF-Else. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the de Graaff family on the loss of their mother and grandmother, Else de Graaff. She was a righteous woman who personified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary dignity. Mrs. de Graaff was a Golden Founder of the Shaare Ze
 GREENE-Ester. Loving wife of the late Dave, mother of Richard and Paul, grandmother of Jenny, Sarah, Rebecca, Daniella, Matthew and Jessica and sister of Rose Kesten and Ruth Haken. Devoted friend to her daughters-inlaw, Ruth and Zoey. She dedicated her life to promoting the health and well
 RONBERG-Ann. Passed away January 11th, 1998. Formerly of Jerusalem and New Haven, Connecticut in her 92nd year. Predeceased by her husband, Heinz and eleven siblings. Survived by her children, Rabbi Yaacov (Nina) Rone and Dr. Baruch Ronberg; grandchildren, Efrem and Rafi Rone, Elana (Dr. Da
 RUBINOFF-Lillian Rosenthal. The administration, faculty, students and boards of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the death of Lillian Rosenthal Rubinoff. Billie was a staunch supporter of the Seminary for more than three decades through her devoted service to the Torah Fun
 VERNICK-Gloria. On January 13. 1998. Of Albertson, L.I. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Gail and Peter Burchard, Kevin and Karla Vernick, Melissa and Jeffrey Shangold. Dear sister of Stewart Karp. Cherished grandmother of Amanda, Caroline, Audrey, Dylan and Noah. Services today 11
 WEINSTEIN-Florence, 86. Of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on January 13, 1998. Loving wife of the late Abraham, mother of Ellen and Jerry, sister of Leo and Roz and the late Herbert. She has four grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Services at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 312 Coney Islan
 SHAPIRO-Elinor. As your grandsons would say ''I bet she's the brightest star in the sky.'' Forever in my heart.       
 Lita S. Osmundsen, retired president of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, died last Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. She was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from pulmonary hypertension, said her husband, Jo
 CHARLTON - Regina (nee Wynne), on January 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Merrill. Loving sister of Sylvia Cook and the late Edwin Wynne. Cherished friend of Dan Berlinghoff. Also survived by her nephew Eric L. Wynne. Memorial service Friday, 3 P.M. at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and 
 DIAMOND-Freda. The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourns the loss of Freda Diamond, a distinguished graduate of the college's School of Art. An internationally influential designer and consultant, she produced innovative, popular designs for glassware, dinnerware, furni
 GUILDEN-Louise Bulova. Died peacefully at 100 years of age on the morning of January 15, 1998. Sister of Arde Bulova, survived by son Paul, grandchildren Peter, Lynn, Barbara and David, and great grandchildren Adam, Toby, Zack, Elizabeth, Tara, Brenton and Brynn. Interment private. Contribu
 RUBINOFF - Lillian. Women's League for Conservative Judaism mourns the loss of Lillian (Billie) Rubinoff, a dynamic and devoted member. She was mentor to generations of leaders as a National Vice President, Parliamentarian, member of our Executive Committee, and honorary National Board memb
 SANRICH-Fanny. Of Roanoke, Va. Passed away Wednesday, January 14, 1998. She was born on October 25, 1920 in Paris, France. A daughter of Adolph and Alice Blumenthal. She was preceded in death by her husband, Norman Sanrich. She is survived by her daughter and son-in-law Sylvia and Paul Shoe
 Harriet Van Horne, a pioneer radio and television critic whose tough-minded crusades for educational programming and against ''women's chatter programs, the vulgar outpourings of the soap opera and the bad taste of commercials'' attracted a wide following in The New York World-Telegram and 
 ABRAMS-Joan Walker. Beloved wife of George. Adored mother of Noel Gahagan Walker and Brooks Walker, and Cherished sister of Ninalee Allen Craig. Died in an automobile accident January 14. Funeral service Sunday, January 18, 3 PM, at Unitarian Church of All Souls, Lexington Avenue at 80th St
 GALLAGHER - Margaret. For merly of Mastic, LI. Daughter of James and Mary Gallagher, passed on January 14, 1998 at St. Patrick's Home, Bronx. Sadly missed by her son Gerard Gallagher and granddaughter Saoirse Gallagher and her brothers George and James. Predeceased by sister Katherine.     
 KAUFMAN-Mildred Kalter. On January 15. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Eileen Grotsky, Jonathan Terner and Andrew Terner. Dear sister of Grace and Diane. She passed away at her home in Frenchman's Creek, Florida after a lengthy illness. She was a member of Metropolis Country Club
 Esther Wolf Lopato, a child psychologist who was active in civic affairs in Brooklyn and beyond, particularly on behalf of public libraries, died on Jan. 7 at her home in the Midwood neighborhood of Brooklyn. She was 77. She had suffered a long illness, her family said. At h
 Mona May Karff, who won the United States women's chess championship seven times, died on Jan. 10 at her home on Riverside Drive in Manhattan. She was 86 and had been among the first four Americans to attain the rank of international woman master. The cause was heart failure, friend
 ABRAMS-Joan Walker. Beloved wife of George. Adored mother of Noel Gahagan Walker and Brooks Walker, and Cherished sister of Ninalee Allen Craig. Died in an automobile accident January 14. Funeral service Sunday, January 18, 3 PM, at Unitarian Church of All Souls, Lexington Avenue at 80th St
 EATON-Bernice. Age 95, January 8, 1998. The light of God surrounds her. The love of God enfolds her. The power of God protects her. The presence of God watches over her. Wherever she is, God is. Thanks mom for all your love.       
 FIELD-Barbara Bruce.Of Tuxedo Park, N.Y. on January 14, 1998. Born March 4, 1936 in New York City. Daughter of Barbara and Edward Weld. A great lady and cherished parent who will be missed dearly by those whose lives she touched. Brucie is survived by five sons, four daughters-in-law and te
 GREENSTEIN-Janice Glantz. Beloved wife of S. Robert. Dearly loved and loving mother of Susan (Mark) Fox, Ivy (Chris Doolittle) and Tod (Gayle Kaplan). Devoted grandmother of Matthew, Peter, Colin, Jillian Rachel, Jillian Hannah, Thea and Sophie. Loving sister of Gerry Bergman and Lois Rosen
 KARLAN-Gertrude. On January 9, a woman of rare talent, intellect, capability and strength. An extraordinarily gifted and sensitive pianist/musician, artist, jewelry designer and goldsmith, she affected a legion of friends of all ages. she was mentor to many who loved her. Throughout her 96 
 KAUFMAN-Mildred Kalter. On January 15. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Eileen Grotsky, Jonathan Terner and Andrew Terner. Dear sister of Grace and Diane. She passed away at her home in Frenchman's Creek, Florida after a lengthy illness. She was a member of Metropolis Country Club
 KRIEGER-Charlotte M. 90, of East Orange, NJ. Died on January 17, 1998. Wife of the late Arthur Krieger, mother of Lewis Krieger, grandmother of Elizabeth Krieger and the late Alexander Krieger. Graduate of Wellesley College, Class of 1927. A member of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun, Livingston
 ROSENSCHEIN - Florence. Be loved wife, devoted mother, cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Passed away in her 100th year. Rest in peace, GiGi. Interment was private.       
 VILLANUEVA-Julieta R. October 3, 1918 to January 13, 1998. Resided with her family in Queens Village, NY. She is survived by her four children and five grandchildren. Her final resting place will be in her home town and country of Cavite City, Philippines.       
 WORONOV-Gertrude A. Widow of Nathan. Prominent retail jewelers died Wed. Jan 14. She leaves 3 children, 5 grandchildren and 8 great grandchildren. Contributions to Hospice.       
 Marilyn Costello, the principal harpist of the Philadelphia Orchestra for 46 years and a respected teacher at the Curtis Institute of Music, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Philadelphia. She was 72. The cause was cancer, said Ann Diebold, a spokeswoman for the Curtis Institute.       
 KARLITZ-Vivian Zweig. On January 18, peacefully with her family. Beloved wife of Irwin. Devoted mother of Herb. Cherished grandmother of Joelle and Jenna. Services 1:15 PM, Monday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the N
 O'MALLEY-Marcella Butler. On January 18, after a courageous struggle with multiple myeloma. Beloved wife of James for 55 years, daughter of the late Thomas and Margaret, mother of Malcolm and Anne, sister of the late Reynolds Butler and Catherine Butler. Born in Montreal in 1915. Her streng
 POTTER-Mildred Wedekind. Former cosmetics executive, 95, died January 16, 1998, Somers, NY. Survived by her daughter Joan Arnold and three grandchildren. Contributions to UNICEF, 333 East 38th Street, NY, NY 10016, Attn: Tribute Card Program.       
 RUBIN-Ada. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted mother of Dorothy Hertling and Arlene Zelesnick. Mother-in-law of Julius Hertling and Jay Zelesnick. Dear grandmother of Richard and Jim Hertling, and Robin and Brooke Zelesnick. Delighted great-grandmother of Lily. Dear sister of Ruth Gro
 SCHUYLER-Pearl. Suddenly on January 17, 1998. Beloved wife of Irving. Loving mother of Sandra Schuyler Jaffee and Harvey Schuyler. Dear mother-in-law of Carl Jaffee and cherished grandmother of Evan Jaffee. Private private. SCHUYLER-Pearl. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New Yo
 TRAVERS-Fay. January 17, 1998. Beloved sister of Dorothy Jacobs. Cherished aunt of Ruth and Darwin Green. She will be missed. Interment private.       
 ABRAMS-Joan Walker. Beloved wife of George. Adored mother of Noel Gahagan Walker and Brooks Walker, and Cherished sister of Ninalee Allen Craig. Died in an automobile accident January 14. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to your favorite charity would be deeply appreciated by the
 CARMODY-Sister Marie Louise, RSCJ, age 84, died at the Kenwood Convent of the Sacret Heart on January 18. Born and raised in Watertown, she attended Noroton, Convent of the Sacred Heart in Darien, CT. After graduating from Wheaton College and working several years, she entered the Society o
 DICHTER-Paulina (nee Ruvinska). On January 17, 1998. Immeasurably loved and admired by her family and friends who cherished her countless gifts of brightness and life. In lieu of flowers, donations to your favorite cause. Services at 9:45 A.M., on Tuesday at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street a
 GERGES-Florence June. Devoted wife of Abraham G. Gerges, Justice of New York State Supreme Court. Beloved mother of Nina Kurtz and mother-in-law of Donnie Scott Kurtz. Loving grandmother of Sarah and Jamie. Cherished sister of Murray Benenson. Former Assistant to the New York State Deputy H
 HARREN-Rose (Cohen). In her 83rd year on January 18, 1998. Wife of the late George J. Harren. Loving mother of Carol and Jill (Jack Shaifer). Beloved sister of Helen Barkin and Felix Carlson (Audre). Adoring grandmother of Seth. Cherished aunt of Amy (James Reiter) and Michael Carlson. Dear
 KOHN-Sally. On January 17, 1998, in Washington, D.C. With singular success, this brilliant and charming woman devoted her life to making other peoples' lives healthier and happier. The glow of her warmth and laughter lit her world and ours. Former Director of the New York AIDS consortium an
 KWOH-Emily T.Y. A woman of remarkable strength and imagination died on January 18, 1998. Her life was an array of triumphs and vicissitudes, the joining of east and west. Born and raised in China she came to the U.S. after the war in 1947. She received a graduate degree from Harvard in Psyc
 MANN-Edna Brand. Wife of the late Harvey T. Mann, mother of the late Peggy Mann Houlton, died peacefully January 17, at 100 years of age. She is survived by a son, John H. Mann, of Cottonwood, Arizona, six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.       
 MILLER-Marion L. On January 19, 1998. Beloved wife of James F. Miller, mother of Jacqueline Rice of Guilford, CT, grandmother of Shauna Rice of San Francisco, CA and Hilary Scott of Manhattan, MT. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the South Hampton Fresh Air Fund
 MOOSE-Helen Willens. On January 17, 1998. Beloved mother of the late Charles Seth Moose. Devoted sister of Iva Schlesinger. Dear aunt of Jonathan Schlesinger and Jennifer Curling. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 10 AM. MOOSE-Helen Willens. Park E
 O'MALLEY-Marcella Butler. On January 18, after a courageous struggle with multiple myeloma. Beloved wife of James for 55 years, daughter of the late Thomas and Margaret, mother of Malcolm and Anne, sister of the late Reynolds Butler and Catherine Butler. Born in Montreal in 1915. Her streng
 OROL-Lillian S. Died Jan. 18, 1998 in Sunnyvale, CA. Previously from Lauderhill, FL., and Kew Gardens, NY. Born Jan. 7, 1913 to Pauline Levitt and Benjamin Spatz. Predeceased by her beloved Harry Orol, DDS and brother Leon D. Spatz, DDS. Survived by son Edward (Harriet); daughter Marcia Oro
 RADOM-Pearl W. Suddenly, in her 87th year on January 18. Beloved wife of the late Ial. Devoted mother of the late Carl. Loving mother of Gayle and Simon. Cherished grandmother of Alan, Todd, Sue and great-grandmother of Cara . She will be missed by all whose lives she touched. Services Wedn
 HISCOX-Elizabeth Ann Wilson, Ph.D., a clinical psychologist, died of heart failure on October 23 in her Manhattan home. She was 81. Dr. Hiscox, born in Ada, Okla., was a former director of counseling services at New York University and Baruch College and also had a private practice. Her fam
 BARUCH-Freda Diamond. The Board, staff and entire League Treatment Center family extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Freda Diamond Baruch, who was a member of our board of Trustees for many years. Freda was an outstanding designer. Her elegance was matched by her devotion to our ha
 CANTY-Linda Kite Pakh. February 8, 1950-January 20, 1998. Beloved wife of David Canty, dearly loved by the Waldron, Gehlbach and Pakh families. Died at her home after a 10 year battle with cancer. Graduated from Northfield School, Middlebury College (1972) and New York University (MBA, Summ
 GELB-Leah. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Max Gelb. Loving mother of Bernard and David. Cherished mother-in-law of Mimi and Carol. Devoted grandmother of Michael, Lauren and Alex. Dear sister of Dr. Ruth Lefkowitz. She was a founder and the first principal of the Solomon Schechter School of
 HARREN - Rose. Riverdale Temple congregational family mourns the passing of Rose Harren, beloved mother of their devoted Board Member, Jill Shaifer, and extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Stephen D. Franklin Sol Blumenstock, President HARREN-Rose. We mourn the 
 MILLER-Marion L. On January 19, 1998. Beloved wife of James F. Miller, mother of Jacqueline Rice of Guilford, CT, grandmother of Shauna Rice of San Francisco, CA and Hilary Scott of Manhattan, MT. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the South Hampton Fresh Air Fund
 O'HEREN-Dana. We wish to express our sincerest condolences and heartfelt sympathies to Dana's entire family for their tragic and untimely loss. Our hearts ache for you. May her memory be a blessing. Gail, Billy, Sarah and J.D. O'HEREN-Dana. Dear Nancy and Family, with deepest respec
 RADOM-Pearl W. Suddenly, in her 87th year on January 18. Beloved wife of the late Ial. Devoted mother of the late Carl. Loving mother of Gayle and Simon. Cherished grandmother of Alan, Todd, Sue and great-grandmother of Cara . She will be missed by all whose lives she touched. Services Wedn
 SMITH-Charles. The administration and staff of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLRHC) and Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) join with the leadership of their parent, Greater Metropolitan Health Systems (GMHS), in extending sympathy to our colleague and friend, Shelley Mayer, vice pres
 SOMMERSTEIN-Anna. On January 19, 1998. Loving and beloved wife of the late Heinrich. Very devoted mother of Helen and son-inlaw George Sadow. Loving and supportive grandmother of Jackie and Sharon and grandmother-inlaw of David Akselrad and Andy Alper, great grandmother of Karen, Brian, Jen
 CREMIN-Joanne L. The staff of the Development Office of The Metropolitan Museum of Art is deeply saddened by the untimely death of our friend and colleague, Joanne L. Cremin. Jody's brilliant mind, quick wit, and enormous dedication have been an inspiration to all of us. She will be sorely 
 GELB-Leah. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Max Gelb. Loving mother of Bernard and David. Cherished mother-in-law of Mimi and Carol. Devoted grandmother of Michael, Lauren and Alex. Dear sister of Dr. Ruth Lefkowitz. She was a founder and the first principal of the Solomon Schechter School of
 HICKS-BEACH-Jeanne M. On January 20, 1998 of Bedford Hills, New York. Wife of the late John H. Hicks-Beach, a former Westchester County Legislator. Mother of Lucinda Quinn, Priscilla Hopkins and John Hicks-Beach, Jr. Grandmother of Tressan and Holly Quinn. Reposing at Clark Associates Funer
 KOROBKIN-Lee. Died on January 21st, 1998, at her home in Port Washington, New York. Beloved wife of Edward Lawrence. Loving mother of Barry, David, Nancy and the late Richard. Devoted grandmother of Rachel, Rob, Lexi, Jake, Katie, Ben, Russell and Sara. Funeral services Friday, January 23rd
 LONGSHORE-Estelle Morgan, 86. Jan. 17, 1998. In loving memory of our mother and grandmother from her children Jo-Ann and Pete, daughter-in-law Shirley, sonin-law Michael, grandchildren Patricia, James, Irene and Kathryn. Memorial service Saturday, January 24, 3 P.M., St. Mark's Church, Jack
 ROGERS-Pearl. We will miss your smile, spirit and sense of humor, and thank you for some of our most cherished memories. Most of all, we will miss you as a warm and loving friend and mother, and you shall remain in our hearts forever. Respects at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison
 YOUNG-Deirdra ''Dee Dee'', 25. Passed away in Santa Fe, New Mexico, on January 8, 1998. She was a graduate of The Masters School, Dobbs Ferry, NY (1990) and Barnard College at Columbia University (1994). Deirdra was employed in Santa Fe by Sommer & Fox Law Firm and volunteered with the Sant
 Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuin
 LEHMAN-Adelina P. Thursday, January 22, at noon at her home. Loving wife of the late Alcuin W. Lehman. Beloved sister of Mary Berol, Bedford Hills, N.Y., Vera F. Bissell, Cambridge, MA., and Grace Pope of NYC. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday 2-5 P.
 MUNRO-Violet (Powell). Of Newton Center, MA, Jan. 21, 1998. Wife of the late James S. Munro. Mother of Patricia LaBranche of Marblehead, MA and Amagansett, NY, Carol Barker of Bryn Mawr, PA, Jane Barrett of Concord, MA, James S., Jr., of Nahant, MA and Donald Munro of Hot Springs, AK. Also 
 ROGERS-Pearl. We will miss your smile, spirit and sense of humor, and thank you for some of our most cherished memories. Most of all, we will miss you as a warm and loving friend and mother, and you shall remain in our hearts forever. Respects at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison
 Dr. Alma Hawkins, a pioneering modern-dance educator who founded the dance department at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Jan. 8 at her home in Santa Monica. She was 94. Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to stud
 Sister Bernadette Szymczak, who fought hunger and despair with such loving zeal that she turned a tiny Brooklyn food program into a mighty engine of sustenance and hope, died Monday at Long Island College Hospital. She was 76 and, until six months ago, had been getting up at 5 A.M. to stir 
 DREIER-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Len and Don (Feiman) and Sandy (Kozinn). She was adored by her grandchildren Debra, Amy, Gary, Sharon and David and cherished by her 13 great-grandchildren.       
 HIRSCH-Dorothy. On Thursday, January 22, 1998. Beloved sister of David, Murray and the late Arthur Hirsch. Devoted sister-in-law of Carol, Janice and Leni. Loving aunt of Debra Kornreich and Dr. Lawrence Hirsch. HIRSCH-Dorothy. A woman and cousin of valor who taught all of us about 
 LEHMAN-Adelina P. Thursday, January 22, at noon at her home. Loving wife of the late Alcuin W. Lehman. Beloved sister of Mary Berol, Bedford Hills, N.Y., Vera F. Bissell, Cambridge, MA., and Grace Pope of NYC. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday 2-5 P.
 BAXTER-The Hon. Kay, O.D. Consul General of Jamaica. The officers, directors and friends of American Friends of Jamaica offer sincere condolences to family and government of Jamaica in the untimely passing of Kay Baxter, who gave creativity and excellence to her diplomatic life. She will be
 CHACON-Sarah M. Born in Guayaquil, Ecuador June 17, 1914, died January 22, 1998 in Reston, Va. Loving mother of Sarah Burgos of Guayaquil, Ecuador, Carlos A. Freile, Queens, N.Y., Linda Hofmann, Reston, Va. Cherished grandmother ''Mamacita'' to seven. Adoring great grandmother to 15. She wa
 DREIER-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Len and Don (Feiman) and Sandy (Kozinn). She was adored by her grandchildren Debra, Amy, Gary, Sharon and David and cherished by her 13 great-grandchildren.       
 GOTTSCHALK-Hertha (nee Kaufmann). On January 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Fred. Devoted mother of Susan and Elaine. Loving sister of the late Walter Kaufmann. Cherished grandmother of Marc, David, Adam and Lisa, and a good friend to many. Services at Riverdale Temple, 246th St and Ind
 HIRSCH-Dorothy. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the Chairlady of its Women's Club. Her exemplary dedication to our Synagogue, enthusiasm for its programs and selfless concern for all its members will be remembered among us with gratitude and affection. Hea
 PECK-Gladys Roach Otto. On January 19, 1998, at age 96. Wife of the late David W. Peck, a past Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court, and partner in the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. Survived by twin daughters, Mary Ann Otto Ormes and Nancy Otto Heller
 REICH-Gertrude, 82, died on January 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Reich, loving mother of Rachel and Alan, proud granmother of Gene, friend and mother-in-law to Ira and Ginny. A long time participant in the movement for peace and justice in the world. We will miss her.       
 SCHUYLER-Pearl. The Board of Directors of 812 Fifth Avenue are profoundly saddened by the sudden and untimely passing, on January 17, 1998, of Pearl Schuyler, the beloved wife of our esteemed Board President, Irving Schuyler. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Irving and to 
 STONE-Laura. On January 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Scott. Dear mother of David. Cherished daughter of Thomas and the late Ruth Fox. Adored sister of Gregory and Janet Fox. A memorial service will be held Monday 11 A.M. at the St. Margaret's Episcopal Church, Plainview, NY. In lieu of flowers
 SZYMCZAK-Sr. Bernadette . The employees of Philip Morris Companies Inc., express their deep sorrow at the loss of Sr. Bernadette Szymczak. Her tireless dedication to helping feed the poor and homeless has served as a true inspiration in our commitment to combat hunger nationwide. Stephanie 
 THORPE-Frances (nee Wills). On January 18, 1998. The Auxiliary of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourns the passing of our most devoted and endearing past president, who was the consummate volunteer, assisting the Garden in its many events and activities. She will long be remembered personally
 WOODFIN-Kathryn Jane. Born on February 22, 1946, died on January 22, 1998 in London after a short illness. She was on a holiday trip for Christmas when she became ill. Her mother, Jane Gentry Woodfin, predeceased her. Kay is survived by her father, Gene M. Woodfin and his wife Jerry Ann of 
 ZIEGLER-Barbara. On January 23, 1998 in New York. Daughter of the late Gladys Watson and William Ziegler. Survived by her brother William Ziegler III, her sister Helen Steinkraus and her niece Melinda Page. A memorial service will be announced later.       
 Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler. The pianist a
 FARLEY-Agnes E. Of New York City and Sea Girt, NJ, on January 23, 1998. Beloved sister of Elizabeth Coleman and Gerald, Joseph and Vincent Farley, all of whom predeceased her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., on Monday, 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Vincen
 HUTCHINGS-Sarah Willim. In her 59th year. Beloved wife of Neil of Paget Parish, Bermuda, mother of Carroll, and step-mother of Nathaniel and Nancy Hutchings. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Rachel, brother John Stone Willim II and his wife Louise in Florida; sister Mrs. Melissa Trask a
 ROSENWALD-Dorothy B. Died January 24, 1998, after a long illness in her Kings Bay, Tobago, home at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late James B. Rosenwald, she is survived by her daughter Patricia R. Heller and her husband Ben of New York City and Sharon, CT, her son James B. Rosenwald, 
 SOSHUK-Marianne. On January 4, 1998 in Miami Beach, FL. Wife of Levi; mother of Rona and David, grandmother of Stephen, Daniel, Robyn and Rachel. Marianne taught history and social studies in Brooklyn public high schools. In retirement she travelled extensively, was active in Jewish and civ
 WOODFIN-Kathryn Jane. Born on February 22, 1946, died on January 22, 1998 in London after a short illness. She was on a holiday trip for Christmas when she became ill. Her mother, Jane Gentry Woodfin, predeceased her. Kay is survived by her father, Gene M. Woodfin and his wife Jerry Ann of 
 ZIEGLER-Barbara. On January 23, 1998 in New York. Daughter of the late Gladys Watson and William Ziegler. Survived by her brother William Ziegler III, her sister Helen Steinkraus and her niece Melinda Page. A memorial service will be announced later.       
 Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler. The p
 Rell Sunn, the Hawaiian surfer who skimmed across the waves with such sure and natural grace that she sometimes seemed at one with the sea, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Makaha on the island of Oahu. She was 47. Ms. Sunn won international fame as a surfing champion and captured the 
 DOGGETT-Patricia (nee Manning). Of Oldwick, N.J. On January 21, 1998. Survived by her husband, Albert K., daughters, Cynthia Ehrenclou and Shelby Mellick, son, Scott, and nine grandchildren. Memorial service January 30, 11 AM, Lamington Presbyterian Church, Bedminster, NJ. Memorial gifts Hu
 DREIER-Betty. Women's League for Israel is saddened by the death of our Honorary Vice President. For more than 50 years she devoted her energy and time to our work with young people in Israel. We will always remember Betty and her husband, Sam, for their support. We extend our condolences t
 FEINBERG-Ida. Wife of the late Jack; loving mother of Howard; mother-in-law of Selma; great grandmother of Nicholas, died January 25, 1998 in her 100th year.       
 HALLOCK-Beatrice Robertson Culver. On January 26th, 1998. A life-long resident of Southampton, Beatrice Hallock died yesterday at the age of seventy-eight. She was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Clayton King Culver of Southampton. She is survived by her children, Mrs. James H. Logan of Barnsl
 HAYNES-Joy Hatton. Dear friends, we lost our Joy to cancer on January 10, 1998 at her home in Manhattan. She was a singer/actress to the cognoscenti; she was a wife and an agent/manager to her late beloved Tiger Haynes; and she was a loyal pal/ buddy/friend to a whole lot of people. You all
 HEIN-Barbara Betty. Of Thornwood, NY. On January 25, 1998. Beloved and devoted wife of Harold for fifty years. Cherished and loving mother of Richard, Robert, Steven and Loren and mother-inlaw of Julia and Michelle. Adored and adoring grandmother of Emily. Her warmth, intelligence and incom
 LEVKOV-Ruth. Age 102. Lover of life, loved by all, ready to laugh and play. Singer of songs, card player extraordinaire. Beloved of her husband Joe, daughter Renee, son Jerry, son-in-law Norman, grandchildren Andy, Harvey, Chip, Josh, Jessie, greatgrandchildren Amy, Robyn, Brian, Jacob and 
 ODEN-Edrita. (nee Pokorny) Died Jan. 25, 1998, at her residence in OKC. She was born in Shawnee, OK on Oct 29, 1931, the daughter of Edward and Arita Pokorny. She grew up in Ada, OK. She received her B.A. in Theater Arts at the University of Oklahoma, with an excellent record of achievement
 PRATT-Rebecca Halpern. Of Rhinebeck, NY, formerly of Mt. Vernon, NY on Jan. 20, 1998. Wife of the late Lou Pratt. Beloved mother of Carol of Marin County, CA and Andrea Replansky of Rhineback. Adored grandmother of Jessica and Sonia Replansky, mother-in-law of Warren Replansky, sister of Bo
 ROSENWALD-Dorothy B. Died January 24, 1998, after a long illness in her Kings Bay, Tobago, home at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late James B. Rosenwald, she is survived by her daughter Patricia R. Heller and her husband Ben of New York City and Sharon, CT, her son James B. Rosenwald, 
 SHERR-Frances. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved friends and family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 Carole Kent Kneeland, vice president for news at KVUE-TV in Austin, Tex., and one of the first television news directors to de-emphasize sensational crime and introduce ''truth tests'' in news reports about political advertising, died on Monday at her home in Austin. She was 49. She
 GOLDSTEIN-Syd Rossman. In her 95th year. From 1958 to 1962, she was National President of Woman's League for Conservative Judaism. She was currently National Treasurer of the Torah Fund Campaign. She leaves a daughter and son-in-law. Arlene and Dr. Edgar Braunstein, daughter-in-law Barbara 
 GUZ-Meyer. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Doris Guz on the loss of her beloved husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 HEIN-Barbara Betty. Of Thornwood, New York. On January 25, 1998. Beloved and devoted wife of Harold for fifty years. Cherished and loving mother of Richard, Robert, Steven and Loren and mother-in-law of Julia and Michelle. Adored and adoring grandmother of Emily. Her warmth, intelligence an
 MONAHAN-John Paul, III. The Kildonan School expresses great sympathy to a good friend Katie Couric and to her daughters who have lost Jay, husband and father.       
 SACHS-Dr. Lucille H. Blum. The Trustees, staff and faculty of Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Lucille Hollander Blum, Ph.D. Dr. Blum, a 1953 graduate of our Adult Psychoanalytic Training Program, had a distinguished career as an analyst and ed
 SCHEFF-Frances L. 89 years old. On January 25th, 1998. Widow of Samuel Scheff, mother of Trudy Brown and Joan Lipsitz, father-inlaw of Julius Brown and Paul Stiller. Devoted grandmother of Cathy, Susan, Annie, and Jonathan. Great grandmother of Gabby, Zoe, Lucy Kate, Aaron Jeremy, and Zacha
 WEBSTER-E. Jerome, Jr. The Friends of Rock Hall express heartfelt condolences to our President, Margaret, on the death of her beloved husband Jerry.       
 ZIMMERMAN-Frances. The law firm of Newman Schwartz & Greenberg is deeply saddened by the death of its beloved and esteemed bookkeeper and friend, Frances Zimmerman, and expresses its deepest condolences and sympathies to her brother, Gustave H. Newman, the firm's Senior Partner, for his los
 ATHANASSIOU-Glenna Donahue. On January 28, 1998. Survived by her devoted husband, Evangelos, loving children, Stevie and Evan, cherished parents, Neil and Kanani Donahue, and 11 siblings. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave. at 83rd Street, Friday, January 30 at
 BILELLO-Jacqueline Giardelli. On January 28, at her home in Manhasset. Beloved wife of the late Sylvester F. Bilello. Devoted mother to Maryann Bilello Schaefer and Barbara Bilello Stynes. Dearest sister to Lee DeSimone. Loving grandmother to Christopher Stynes, Kristin Schaefer, Darren Sch
 BOGART-Esther, 72. Died Jan. 26, 1998. She lived in Douglas, MI. for the past five years, having moved from East Williston, LI. She had worked for Lord & Taylor, and Payne, Wood and Littlejohn. She was a member of the Brookville Reformed Church, Community Church of Douglas, and H.A.S.P. of 
 FIELD-Beatrice. NCJW New York Section mourns the loss of Bea Field, a dedicated, devoted member constantly planning for the future. Her special interest in this organization will be very much missed. Bernice Friedes, Jean Krosner Co-Presidents Helen Caplin Heller, Exec Dir FIELD-Bea
 FIELDS KARP-Marje. January 27, 1998. Services Friday, 9:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. She is predeceased by her husband, Oscar Karp. Survived by her niece, Sue Ruskin-Mayher, her nephew, Marc Greene, two great-nieces, Nicole and Joanna Ruskin. In lieu of fl
 GOLDSTEIN-Syd Rossman. In her 95th year. From 1958 to 1962, she was National President of Woman's League for Conservative Judaism. She was currently National Treasurer of the Torah Fund Campaign. She leaves a daughter and son-in-law. Arlene and Dr. Edgar Braunstein, daughter-in-law Barbara 
 GORDON-Sylvia P. All of us at East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourn the passing of our Honorary Trustee and past Sisterhood President. Her intelligence, energy, love and concern for the Synagogue and for the Jewish people will be sorely missed. We extend our sympathy and our condolenc
 HALLERAN-Gwendolyn Fisk. In her 93rd year on January 26. Daughter of the late Pliny Fisk and Eleanor Small Fisk. Beloved wife of the late Thomas Augustus Halleran. Gwenny is survived by her sister, Eleanor F. Noall, her sister-in-law, Eileen Halleran Newman, her stepchildren, James H. Halle
 SWANSON-Susan Shepard. On January 27 after a courageous battle against cancer. She is survived by her husband Eric; her daughter Jessica Malawski; her mother Louise Loud of Gloucester, Massachusetts; her father Alfred Oxenham of Willmette, Illinois; her brother Peter Oxenham of Stamford, Co
 WYSS-Henriette A. Passed away January 24, 1998. Resident of the Bronx. Former officer supervisor Department of X-Ray, Presbyterian Medical Center. Survived by her brother, Albert C. Wyss. Visitation Friday, 2 to 9 PM, Fox Funeral Home, 203 East 201 Street, Bronx. Funeral service Saturday, 9
 CRYSTAL-Marjorie. On January 26, 1998. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Bernard Crystal. Loving mother of Thomas, Bernard and Sydney and caring mother-in-law of Ann, Joan and Bill. Proud grandmother of Matthew and Joseph and of Michael, Paul, Susan and their partners, Karen, Sybille and
 FIELDS KARP-Marje. Her fellow volunteers at the NYC Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association, the staff and Directors, mourn the passing of a good friend and courageous lady, Marje Karp. Likewise, the many AD caregivers she touched as a support group leader and Helpline volunteer. At this dif
 HALLERAN-Gwendolyn Fisk. In her 93rd year on January 26. Daughter of the late Pliny Fisk and Eleanor Small Fisk. Beloved wife of the late Thomas Augustus Halleran. Gwenny is survived by her sister, Eleanor F. Noall, her sister-in-law, Eileen Halleran Newman, her stepchildren, James H. Halle
 HELLER-Sondra, Ph.D, January 28, 1998 of Tarrytown, NY. Wife of Joel Frutkin, mother of Jenny and Jocelyn Dauphin and Jeremy Frutkin. As educator, scholar and mentor she devoted her life to children as Principal and Teacher at Yeshiva of Kings Bay in Brooklyn, Solomon Schecter High School i
 HOFFMAN-Leona V., 95. Beloved mother of Richard and Kenneth Hoffman. Adored grandmother and great grandmother. The Hoffman family celebrate her long life that touched so many with her love and her gentle grace. We will cherish her memory forever. Services are today, 12 noon, at Robert Schoe
 KORTE-Maria (nee Bring). On 1/ 29/98. Beloved wife of the late Otto, devoted mother of the late Frank Rudi. Will be greatly missed by Margaret (Peggy) O'Reilly Korte, daughter-in-law, nieces and nephews in Germany and her many friends in the New York area. Reposing Chas. Peter Nagel Funeral
 MARKS-Dr. Sema Joy (nee Fichtenbaum). Age 55. Of Manhattan. Died on January 19, 1998 after a year-long battle with brain cancer. Sema's unique personality and broad background with IBM made her a valuable member of the BBN/GTE Internet organization. Sema held a Doctorate in Information Syst
 MOORE-Martha Richardson. Secretary to former President Herbert Hoover and among the first group of women to be commissioned as an officer in the Navy Waves during World War II, died at her home in Stamford, CT on January 25. She was 90. Born, Martha Richardson, 1907, in Norristown, PA, to D
 SELENGUT-Morris. Yeshiva University and its Sy Syms School of Business mourn the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Sylvia; father of Elkie (and Kalman) Adams, Zev Aryea (and Chani) Selengut, Chumi (and Reuven) Mandel, David (and Chaya) Selengut, and Y
 SWANSON-Susan. All of us at John Wiley & Sons, Inc., mourn the loss of Susan Swanson, Director of Journal Subscription and Fulfillment, and wife of Eric Swanson, Senior V.P., STM Publishing. Susan was well-known for her business knowledge and savvy, her contributions to industry efforts, an
 SWERSEY-Esther. Of North Miami Beach, FL on January 28, 1998, in North Adams, MA. The daughter of Leo and Bertha Rosen, she grew up in the Bronx. She met her husband Frank when he served her lunch in a Madison Avenue coffee shop. Married for fifty-three years until his death in 1985, they l
 WILLAUMEZ - KARNES - Marilyn E. Of New York. On January 22, 1998. Mother of Jonah David Willaumez. Former member of the Fashion Group and the Bellevue Hospital Auxiliary Board. Her career included positions at Vogue Magazine, Burlington Industries and Celanese Inc. Memorial service will be 
 WYSS-Henriette A. Passed away January 24, 1998. Resident of the Bronx. Former officer supervisor Department of X-Ray, Presbyterian Medical Center. Survived by her brother, Albert C. Wyss. Visitation Friday, 2 to 9 PM, Fox Funeral Home, 203 East 201 Street, Bronx. Funeral service Saturday, 9
 Dorothy Hart Hirshon, a glamorous figure in New York society from the 1920's through the 40's who later became active in social, human rights and political causes, died Thursday in an automobile accident while driving near her home in Glen Cove, on Long Island. She was 89. Frequentl
 CAPOZZOLI-Adele (nee Valli). Of NYC. Beloved wife of the late Justice and former Congressman Louis J. Capozzoli. Devoted mother of Louis Jr., of Baton Rouge, LA, Christine Raso, of Holmdel, NJ, and Gloria Barbieri, of Franklin Lakes, NJ. Adoring grandmother of 7 and great grandmother of 9. 
 CINQUE-Josephine F. January 29, 1998. Sister of Albert Cinque. She is survived by numerous nieces and nephews and close friends who will all deeply miss her. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday 10AM, Our Lady of Peace Church, 237 East 62 Street, New York City.       
 HIRSHON-Dorothy H. Died suddenly Thursday, Jan 29, 1998 at the age of 89, following an automobile accident. She is survived by her son Jeffrey Paley and his wife Valerie; her daughter Hilary Paley Califano and her husband Joseph Califano; and her step-daughter Joy Briggs, all of New York Ci
 SAKOWITZ-Hilda. The residents of 230 West 105th Street mourn the sudden and tragic passing of Hilda Sakowitz, our warm, caring neighbor and long time building leader. Our hearts are with her husband Shelley and with her whole family.       
 SPITZER-Irma Louise (nee Endel), died on January 30, 1998 at Longboat Key, Florida after an extended illness that she bore with extraordinary bravery and always with a quiet smile. She was the devoted wife and best friend of James for sixty years, the dedicated mother of James Jr. and Sheri
 WHITE-Shannon. The employees of the Four Seasons Hotel New York mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague Shannon White. Her spirit, her energy and her determination inspired us all. Her smile will be forever remembered and her contributions will never be forgotten. To her parents 
