 Galina Brezhnev, the high-living daughter of the former Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev whose antics often led to scandal, died today in a Moscow hospital. She was 69. Russian news agencies said she is to be cremated on Wednesday. There were no details about the cause of death.    
 CLARKE-Sylvia (nee Stein). On June 29. Loving wife of the late Herbert M. (Nobby) Clarke. Beloved sister of Selma Cohen and her husband Eli. Devoted aunt of Theodora Raab, Dr. Alan D. Kramer, Joyce Fishman, Marc Rosenbaum & Peter Rosenbaum. Doting great aunt of Samantha & Sophie Rosenbaum. 
 HAY-Agnes D'Arcy. In her 90th year on June 29, 1998 of Setauket, Long Island. Miss Hay was the daughter of the late John B. Hay and Agnes D'Arcy Hay. She was a retired school teacher at the Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. Funeral Service Friday, July 3, 1998, 1PM at the Caroline C
 KUSEVITSKY-Patricia Lily. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn with great sadness the death of Patricia Lily Kusevitsky, mother of our Vice President of Ritual, Valerie Leibler and wife of the world renowned late Cantor David Kusevitsky. Her gentle, di
 NOLL-Marie Underhill. President Hunter R. Rawlings III, members of the Board of Trustees, and staff of Cornell University mourn the passing of Marie Underhill Noll, Class of 1926. Mrs. Noll was a Presidential Counselor and with her late husband, A. Robert Noll, was recognized as a foremost 
 DECKER-Barbara. The staff and directors of the Children's All Day School are deeply saddened by the death of one of its founders. She will always be fondly remembered. To her entire family we offer our deepest sympathy.       
 ELLIS-Arlene. On July 1st. We are saddened at the loss of our dear friend & longtime employee. Our sincere sympathy to her family. The Management & Staff of Helmsley-Spear, Inc.       
 PERLES-Julia. On July 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Howard. Devoted sister, loving aunt, great aunt & cherished friend. Graveside service Friday, 11 A.M., at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Memorial service to be announced. PERLES-Julia. She will be missed by all of us who pra
 SUTTLE-Virginia Liggett. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and its parent corporation, Continuum Health Partners, Inc, mourns the passing of Virginia Liggett Suttle. She and her late husband, Harold Suttle, were loyal and devoted supporters of our hospital for nearly
 Julia Perles, a longtime Manhattan lawyer who played an important part in bringing about a significant change in New York State's divorce legislation, died early Wednesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84 and had lived in Sarasota for about four years. The 
 HERMANN-Leonore L.K. On July 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Adolph I. Klein & Dr. Nathaniel R. Hermann. Loving mother of Kathryn Briger, Richard Klein and stepmother of Susan H. Ginsberg and Patricia Hermann. Adoring grandmother of Devon & Peter L. Briger Jr., Matthew H. Briger, Margaret
 ISRAEL-Frances C. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Frances C. Israel. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President Shirley Steinhauser, Sisterhood President       
 LAWRENCE-Adele Marie (nee Cohen). Of Lincoln, MA. Formerly of Freeport, NY. On July 1 at age 78. She will be deeply missed by her devoted and loving husband Jack. Her memory will be cherished always by her children Jon Lawrence and Vicki Blier, their spouses Gerd and Malcolm, and her grandc
 MARCUS-GROSS-Dr. Henriette. 82, of Greenwich, CT, on July 1. Dr. Marcus was a pioneering physician and beloved wife and mother, remembered with love by family, friends, patients and students. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Gross, of Greenwich; her son, Dr. Charles Gross, of Can
 PERLES-Julia. Our partners, associates and staff express our deepest sorrow at the loss of our esteemed former Senior Partner, Counsel and Chair of our Matrimonial Department. Julia Perles was a remarkable individual and an outstanding leader of the Bar whose foresight, perseverance, and le
 RUBENSTEIN-Sylvia (nee Gervis). On July 2, 1998. Wife of the late Philip of Philadelphia, PA. Formerly of New York. Mother of Lynne Kaiser and Bobbi (Kenny) Gray. Grandmother of William (Marcy) Kaiser, Lauren (Paul) Kaiser Albert, Paul (Kimberly) Kaiser, Garrett (Lisa) Gray, David Gray, Ron
 SNYDER-Beatrice. The Board and Staff of the YWCA/NYC extend their condolences to Beryl Snyder on the recent passing of her mother Beatrice Snyder. We offer our deepest sympathy to Beryl and her family. Sally T. Butler, President Vivian Manning Fox, Executive Director       
 SUTTLE-Virginia L. Died on June 27, 1998 at her residence in New York City. She was a native of New Orleans, LA. She was a graduate of Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University and received a Master's Degree from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. She served for many years as a tr
 MARION-Anna. On July 3, 1998 at age 76 at home in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Beloved wife of Samuel. Loving mother of Lester and Robert & mother-in-law of Vivien and Beth. Adoring grandmother of Sara, Michael, Isadora, Davida, and Jonah. Dear sister of Meyer Steinberg and sister-in-law of Leah. 
 PERLES-Julia. We mourn the passing of a dear friend, teacher, colleague and the finest example of an indomitable spirit. We treasure what you have given us and we are grateful for what you have shared with us. Norman and Elaine Sheresky Diane Steiner PERLES-Julia. All members of the
 PHALEN-Jane Radford (Mrs. Clifton W.). Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother and friend to many. On July 2, 1998. Contributions in her memory may be made to Saint Mary's Episcopal Church, Shelter Island, New York 11964.       
 RAPP-Hilde. On July 3, 1998. Beloved sister of Martha Stein. Loving aunt and dear friend. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 12:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC.       
 ALESKOVSKY-Emma G. Clark. Age 84. Emma G. Clark Aleskovsky will be honored during a memorial service at Hickory Hill Community House on Hickory Hill La, Tappan, N.Y. at 2PM on July 12, 1998. She worked as a business teacher, reporter, community news editor and tailor. She was also an active
 BLINICK-Margery Alice (Linda). Died June 19, 1998 in Princeton, N.J. Born on September 19, 1909, Curwensville, PA. She lived most of her life in New York City and worked as a nurse at Beth Israel Medical Center. Devoted wife of the late George Blinick, M.D. Beloved mother of Robert and Jose
 COHEN-Emma Mabel. Age 96. Died on July 2, 1998 in Media, Pennsylvania. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Joseph George Cohen, who was former Dean of Teacher Education, City Colleges of New York City. Cherished mother of Vera (Mrs. Joseph) Gottlieb of Charlottesville, VA, and Michael Cohen of Wyn
 GRAVES-Marilyn Preston. Died on July 3, 1998 in Fairfield, CT after a long respiratory illness. Beloved daughter of the late Helen Mitchell Graves and the late Duncan Graves. A life-long New Yorker, Marilyn devoted 44 years of her life as a volunteer at The New York Hospital, and more than 
 HERMANN-Mrs. Lee. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our longtime member, Mrs. Lee Hermann, widow of our deceased member, Nathanial Hermann. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her children and thei
 LEWIS-Ernestine. In Lauderhill, FL. On July 3, 1998 at age 91. Devoted mother of Bill and Ruth Levien and Richard Lewis. Cherished grandmother of Debbie and Ken Meyer, Jessica and Cliff Zelenko. Beloved ''GG'' of Ali, Nick and Marty. She was without equal. She will be greatly missed. Servic
 MARION-Anna. On July 3, 1998 at age 76 at home in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Beloved wife of Samuel. Loving mother of Lester and Robert & mother-in-law of Vivien and Beth. Adoring grandmother of Sara, Michael, Isadora, Davida, and Jonah. Dear sister of Meyer Steinberg and sister-in-law of Leah. 
 MITTLER-Minnie (Mitzie). Beloved wife of the late Arthur S. Devoted mother of Arnold Mittler and Sandra Sand, cherished mother-in-law of Lloyd Sand and Regina Mittler. Dear sister of Harry Kaminetsky. Loving grandmother of Elise and Stuart, Eric and Michele, Alison and Ric, Michele and Andr
 RAGUSA-Maria Rosa (nata DiRosa). 94 years oid. On June 30, 1998. Maria joins her husband Joseph and sons James, Vincent and Salvatore in Heaven & leaves behind many heartbroken family members; daughters Jean Rampanelli, Ann Mezzatesta and husband Joseph, son Vincent Ragusa and wife Dee, and
 RAPP-Hilde. On July 3, 1998. Beloved sister of Martha Stein. Loving aunt and dear friend. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 12:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC.       
 TALLY-Bernice Gang. Age 83, longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Charles H. Tally. Devoted mother of Nancy Polevoy and William Tally. Dear sister of Kenneth Gang and sister-in-law of Fay Gang and Jerome and Marian Tally. Loving grandmother of Jason and John Polevoy. 
 ABRAMSON-Samuel. We express our sincerest condolences to Radine Abramson Spier, a devoted friend and patron of the medical center, on the loss of her beloved father. May the warm memories of this special person bring solace to Radine and the entire family, and may they be comforted amongst 
 FALK-Renate. A longtime resident of Jericho, NY, recently a resident of Baton Rouge, LA, died on July 2, 1998, in Dallas, TX. She was 63 years old. Beloved wife of Lothar (Larry). Mother of Michelle, Rhonda, Steven and Wayne. Mother-in-law of Steve, Heidi and Vickie. Grandmother of Nina, Mi
 GRAVES-Marilyn Preston. Died on July 3, 1998 in Fairfield, CT after a long respiratory illness. Beloved daughter of the late Helen Mitchell Graves and the late Duncan Graves. A life-long New Yorker, Marilyn devoted 44 years of her life as a volunteer at The New York Hospital, and more than 
 LEWIS-Ernestine. In Lauderhill, FL. On July 3, 1998 at age 91. Devoted mother of Bill and Ruth Levien and Richard Lewis. Cherished grandmother of Debbie and Ken Meyer, Jessica and Cliff Zelenko. Beloved ''GG'' of Ali, Nick and Marty. She was without equal. She will be greatly missed. Servic
 LEWIS-Harriet (Fogel). Beloved wife of Dr. Ephraim Lewis. Mother of Ellen Lewis (Jay Golden), Judith Lewis (David Sperling). Sister of Jerry (Barbara) Fogel. Grandmother of Daniel, Deborah and Benjamin. Survived by brothersin-law and sisters-in-law (with special gratitude to Ruth Lewis who 
 TALLY-Bernice G. Wife of our late, esteemed senior partner, Charles H. Tally. We mourn the loss of Bernice Tally and extend our deepest sympathy to her family, her daughter Nancy Polevoy, her son William Tally, her son-in-law Martin Polevoy, her brother Kenneth Gang and her grandsons Jason 
 TALLY-Bernice Gang. Age 83. On July 3, 1998. Longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Charles H. Tally. Devoted mother of Nancy Polevoy and William Tally and mother-in-law of Martin Polevoy. Dear sister of Kenneth Gang and sister-in-law of Fay Gang and Jerome and Marian 
 WASSMAN - Eleanor Elizabeth Humphrey. Of Larchmont and Brant Lake, NY. Beautiful and beloved wife of E. Robert Wassman. Loving mother of Diane Wassman Darst, E. Robert Wassman, Jr., and Debra Wassman Lanman. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, David, Jr., Eleanor, Jonathan, Anna Cecelia, and E
 Kay Thompson, an entertainer who became the author of the hugely successful book ''Eloise,'' about a bratty child living at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, died on Thursday. She lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan with her goddaughter, Liza Minnelli. She was taken from the apartment to 
 BOSCHEN-Jennifer A. The Officers and Employees of Ivy Asset Management Corp, mourn with great sorrow the sudden passing of our friend and co-worker, Jennifer Boschen. Jennifer was bright, cheerful and kind, and served as an inspiration to all of us. We extend our most sincere condolences to
 FISHER-Lillian, Dr. On July 4, 1998, age 76, at home in New York City. Beloved mother of Steven, Michael and Tony and grandmother of Julia Rose. Dedicated psychoanalyst. Adopted mother of many, and dear friend of many more all over the world. We will all miss her.       
 HEURTLEY-Jasna Pervan. Of Manhattan died July 4, 1998, of a heart attack. She was 89. She leaves a son, Peter John Ames of Brookline, Massachusetts and two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in the Fall.       
 LANGNER-Rose (nee Moskowitz) died on Sunday, July 5, 1998. She was a dedicated teacher at P.S. 39 of Brooklyn for over twenty-five years. She will be mourned by her mother, Golda Moskowitz, by her husband Saul, children Elisheva, Sury (Cheryl) and Dovid Hager; grandson Charlie, sister Hanna
 LEWIS-Harriet. The Brotherhood of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourns the passing of the mother of our devoted rabbi Judith S. Lewis and extends deepest sympathy to her and the family. Dean Maltz, Brotherhood President       
 LIEB-Maron H. Age 94 of Easton CT., beloved wife of Charles H. Lieb, died Saturday, July 4, in her home. Born in Salem, MA, Maron Lieb was a graduate of the Mt. Sinai School of Nursing and was employed as a nurse with both the Flowers Hospital & Doctors Hospital in Manhattan and she was als
 MATZDORF-Alice L., 73 yrs old. Of New Paltz, New York, died on July 1, 1998 at her residence. She was a Director Emerita for Special Students Services at SUNY New Paltz and retired in 1985. She has lived in New Paltz for 41 years and previous to that, in Ossining, NY. She was a member of th
 POMERANTZ-Belle. On July 5, 1998. Loving mother of Steve and Roni, Roz Block, Sandra and Charles Sorkin. Grandmother of Wendi, Vicki, Peter, Michele, Blair & Brett. She will be missed. Shiva at 63 Ward Dr., New Rochelle, New York.       
 RIEDLAND-Lucille. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed Member on Saturday, July 4, 1998. She will be missed. Services will be held Tuesday, July 7, at 3 P.M. at Menorah Gardens, 2305 West Hillsboro Boulevard, Deerfiel
 SIMON-Estelle R., 87. Long time resident of New York and most recently of Newport Beach, California. Died on July 5th, 1998. She is survived by daughters Deana Price (Steve), and Ronnie Bush (Daniel Ninberg), grandchildren Steven Bush (Jamie), Alan Bush, Mark Price (Julie), and Bruce Price,
 SULLIVAN-Judy. We will miss Judy Sullivan for her kindness, generosity and joyful spirit. Our dear friend at NBC will be loved forever by us all. Mikki Lam, Executive Director Just One Break (JOB)       
 TALLY-Bernice G. The Board and Staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with sorrow the passing of the wife of the late Charles H. Tally, former President of our Board. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Nancy Polevoy, who continues the family tradition of
 TURTLETAUB-Beatrice, wife of Alan Turtletaub, Chairman and Founder of The Money Store. Mrs. Turtletaub, the daughter of the late Morris and Nellie Feldman and her brother Bernard, founded Feldman's Department store in Lakewood, Toms River and Long Branch. Mrs. Turtletaub, born in Bordentown
 ABRAMSON-Sam. Ohr Torah Stone College and Graduate Programs extends its condolences to our friend and supporter Mrs. Radine Spier on the loss of her father. May G-d comfort her and her family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Shlomo Riskin Efrat       
 BONFIELD-Patricia. On June 27, 1998, of Kennett Square, PA., formerly of New York City. Survived by her cousins Angus Gillis, Jr. of Nashville, TN, Sidney H. Gillis, Sr. of Charleston, W.V., and Harold E. Ryder of Red Bank, New Jersey. Services and interment were private. For more informati
 FISHER-Lillian J. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Insititue and Society note with profound sorrow the sudden passing of an esteemed graduate and member. Dr. Fisher's vibrant career was exemplified by her openness to new ideas and by her bold and pioneering spirit. One of the first 
 GARZON-Manuela Diaz, widow of Julio Garzon, resident of Tamarac, FL, and formerly of Miami, Washington, D.C., and New York, NY, passed away in Tamarac on Friday, July 3, 1998. She was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on August 13, 1909. She was a longtime member of the Puerto Rican American W
 GOLDSTEIN-Sade. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend Sade Goldstein and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 GORDON-Betty Lou Baker. Always admired for her keen mind, impeccable taste, & extraordinary graciousness. She gave of herself unstintingly to her family and friends and will be greatly missed. Doreen and Peter Rogers GORDON-Betty Lou Baker. AFTAP has lost a great friend and a strong
 HARTZ-Elizabeth K. Age 90, in Bernardsville, NJ, on Monday, July 6, 1998. Wife of the late Raymond E. Hartz. Mother of Elizabeth H. Forster of New York City and John C. Hartz of Basking Ridge, NJ. Also predeceased by son, Raymond E. Hartz, Jr. Grandmother of six. A memorial service will be 
 MARION-Anna. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Anna Marion, a respected member of our Society of Founders and a Guardian of our University. To her husband, Samuel; her children, Dr. Robert Marion, Professor of 
 THURSH-June R. On July 4, 1998 after a lengthy illness. Beloved wife of the late Joseph J. Thursh. Devoted sister of Lillian, Irvin and Priscilla. Loving mother of Joan. Grandmother of Louis and Jody. Aunt of Sue & Bob, Joel and Lisa, Stacy, Bobby and Bonnie. Loyal friend and inspiring teac
 ASHLEY-Eleanor. A townhouse specialist with the real estate firm of Stribling-Wells & Gay. It is with profound sorrow we announce her passing. She is survived by her mother, Pearl, her children, Bradley and Michelle, Randy & Lisa, her sisters Deanna, Alice and her husband Eddie, four fabulo
 DUBINSKY-Esther on July 7, 1998. Peacefully, in her sleep. Greatly loved by her family and friends. Service 1pm Thursday, July 9 at Riverdale Temple, 246 St and Independence Avenue in The Bronx. In lieu of flowers please send contributions to Hadassah.       
 FRIEDMAN-Doris. The Society of Jewish Science mourns the loss of our dear Doris; esteemed Member, Practitioner, Director, Teacher, Friend, on June 18, 1998. May her soul forever be bound to her Maker in Eternal Life. May the brilliance of her earthly stay inspire all who knew her to live a 
 PECHENIK-Harry. On July 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Freda, loving uncle of the late Marilyn and her husband Rabbi Alvin Harris and Fred and Helen Goldstein. Dear great-uncle of Margalit & Michael & their children Michael and Colin. Graveside service Friday, 11 AM, at Mount Lebanon Cemetery,
 SULLIVAN-Janet F., R.N., Ph.D., 45, on July 6, 1998, lost a seven year monumental battle against breast cancer. Her drive and determination was a constant source of amazement and admiration to family, friends and co-workers. Until the end, she lived her life for herself rather than for her 
 COHEN-Jessica Jennifer, 25, a journalist, died on June 29th, 1998, in Tempe, AZ. of a brain tumor. She was born in Santa Fe, New Mexico, to J. Susan Cedar and Eugene D. Cohen. She was engaged to Claude Mottier, and is also survived by her stepfather, Gary Lowenthal, and siblings, Jessica An
 DUBOIS-Joan FitzGerald, 50. Prominent Los Angeles philanthropic executive, died May 20 while on vacation in Canada. A graduate of St. Joseph's College for Women, Brooklyn, and the New York University School of Law, Mrs. DuBois had a distinguished career. Over the past 14 years she became re
 GRAVES-Marilyn. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Marilyn Graves. A woman of great spirit and dedication, Ms. Graves was a volunteer at The New York Hospital for 44 years & also served as Treasurer of the Auxiliary of The Society of the New York Hospital for many year
 HELLER-Constance Quint. Formerly of Newton, MA, New Rochelle and Harrison, NY, died in Sarasota, FL. July 9. Beloved wife of George, loving mother of Bruce, Betsy, Alan and Martha, grandmother of ten. Graduate of ColbySawyer, Class of '43. Dedicated artist who experimented with various tech
 KRAMER-Lissi. Left us on July 8, 1998. She was the devoted wife of the late Henry H., and the loving mother of Fred and Madeline Kramer, Ernest and Susan Kramer, Anne and Paul Strauss. She adored her grandchildren, Valerie, Andrea, Martin, Diana, Lisa, David, Tracy and Richard, and their sp
 MARX-Thelma. On July 8, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Harry M., devoted mother of Jerry and Stanley; loving mother-in-law of Leslie and Judy; dearest grandmother of Amanda, Ariel, Harrison, Samantha and Gabrielle. Devoted sister of Edna Feinstein and Walter Kaplan. Services Friday, July 10
 NEW-Elizabeth V. Born 1917-died on July 8th, 1998 of cancer at the Jacob Perlow Hospice in New York City. Dear wife of the late William Kohman, loving mother of Peter Kohman & friend to many. Graduate of Wheaton College and Columbia University. Betty was a child psychologist, a caring couns
 SHOUP-Ruth Snedden. On June 25, 1998 in Laconia, N.H. at the age of 93. Survived by her husband Carl S. Shoup, her children Dale S. Mayer, Center Sandwich, N.H., and Paul S. Shoup, Charlottesville, VA., eight grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Pre-deceased by her son Donald S. Shou
 WEINAPPLE-Evelyn (nee Karpin). Loving wife of the late Henry; Beloved mother of Martin and Sharon, Stanley & Gertrude, and the late Donald. Dear Sister of Celia, Phyllis and the late Amy and Pearl. Devoted Grandmother of Richard, Sharon, Robert, Alan, Gabriella, David and Daniela. Great Gra
 KIRSCHENBAUM - Leah. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children, Jerome, Stephen, Bruce, Rose, and to the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi George Sommerfeld, President Cha
 BERNKLAU-Dorothy Riss, 1991. Remembered fondly. Her children David and Renee, and four-yearold granddaughter Danielle.       
 EDWARDS-Alice Howland. Age 84 on July 8, 1998. Singer of opera & art song & vocal coach. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Edwards, cellist. Loving mother of Kate and Harriet Edwards. Grandmother of Victoria Kirk. Devoted sister of Harriet Flynn and Thielo Howland. Interment private. Memorial
 ESTES-Frieda Guttman. Beloved widow of Jack Estes. Previously of New York and Westwood, California. Died on July 8, 1998 at her home in Los Angeles. A longtime buyer at Janice and Bond's stores in New York and owner of Estes Bra and Girdle, she is survived by her loving nephew Edward Kelman
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Leah. Beloved wife of the late New York State Supreme Court Justice Irving Kirschenbaum, passed away on Friday, July 10, in Maine. Mrs. Kirschenbaum was 82, and lived in Harrison, NY. She grew up in Brooklyn, NY. During early married life she was active in the B'nai B'rith and 
 MARX-Thelma. On July 8, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Harry M., devoted mother of Jerry and Stanley; loving mother-in-law of Leslie and Judy; dearest grandmother of Amanda, Ariel, Harrison, Samantha and Gabrielle. Devoted sister of Edna Feinstein and Walter Kaplan. Services were held Frida
 MINDELL-Harriett, age ninety, of Clifton, N.J., on July 9, 1998. Survived by her son Marvin and her daughters Patricia Pancer and June Gelbart. Also survived by her eight grandchildren, nine greatgrandchildren and her brother Robert Covell. Services are at 12 Noon, on Monday at Robert Schoe
 PATON-Millicent Ford. Age 92. On July 5, 1998. Daughter of the late Walter William and Almyra Ford of San Diego, CA. Resident of Delray Beach, FL since 1979; previously resided in Greenwich, CT from 1941, where she was a well known interior decorator for over 25 years. Graduated from UCLA i
 PAUL-Elizabeth S.B. Unexpectedly at home. For many years a devoted, loyal volunteer and member of the Board of Bellevue Hospital's Auxiliary. She will be sorely missed. Our sympathies to the entire family. Sheila Barnes, President Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital       
 BLECHER-Anne. Devoted wife of the late Sam. Loving mother of Joseph and Harvey. Her memory and sacrifice for her family will always be cherished. Services were held at Plaza Memorial Chapel. BLECHER-Anne. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood and Men's Club mourn the passin
 CREAN-Joan T. Of the Bronx, NY, on July 10, 1998. Wife of the late Donald F. Crean. Mother of Donald R. Crean. Sister of Ellen Anne DeRubba, aunt of Vincent and Stephen DeRubba and Annemarie Esposito. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 
 EDWARDS-Alice Howland. Age 84 on July 8, 1998. Singer of opera & art song & vocal coach. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Edwards, cellist. Loving mother of Kate and Harriet Edwards. Grandmother of Victoria Kirk. Devoted sister of Harriet Flynn and Thielo Howland. Interment private. Memorial
 GOLDRING-Helen. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William Goldring. Mother of Dr. Roberta Goldring Coles and the late Nancy Goldring. Grandmother of Anthony, John and Dr. Nancy Coles Goldstein. Great-grandmother of eight. A 1928 graduate of NYU Law School and a source of strength for 92 years fo
 LEVINE-Rose. Age 89, of Brooklyn, NY, died on July 11, 1998. Beloved widow of Max. Sister of Herbert. Aunt of four nieces and nephews, great-aunt of six greatnieces and nephews, and greatgreat-aunt of seven great-great nephews, all of whom loved her and will miss her.       
 LEVY-Edith. Of Lauderhill, FL, and formerly of Woodmere, LI, and Brooklyn, NY. Died Friday, July 10. ''Chairman of the Board, role model to all.'' She was the loving wife of the late brothers Harry and Louis. Adored mother of Joan (Ronald) Mishkin, Arthur (Sandra) Levy and Jay (Barbara) Lev
 REA-Emeline Ellida. At home in Garden City, NY, on July 10. She was 87. Her father, Edgar Mora Davison, was a banker and was involved in the financing of The New York Times in the early part of the century. Her mother, Emeline Virginia Middleton, was a direct descendent of Arthur Middleton,
 Betty Lehan Harragan, a writer, consultant and advocate for women's equality in the workplace, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to Kathleen Harragan, her daughter. Betty H
 BERSON-Hilda M. (nee Bayles). Died peacefully on July 12th in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Alvin. Devoted mother of Ann and Joel Berson and Alice and Milton Rubin. Loving grandmother of Richard Kind, Joanne and Michael Hinton, John Berson and Nancy and Jeffrey Lupoff. Devoted gre
 CORRAO-Martha E. 76. Of Marlboro on July 11, 1998. Loving wife of Eugene. Dear mother of Kathryn Thomas and her husband, Robert Thomas. Beloved grandmother of Robert Jr. and Keith Thomas. Friends and relatives are invited to attend funeral services Wednesday 9:30 am followed by a 10:00 am m
 GOLDRING-Helen. We are very saddened to learn of the passing of Helen Goldring, the beloved mother of our esteemed Professor Roberta Goldring Coles and the wonderful spouse of our late Professor William Goldring, both in the Department of Medicine at NYU School of Medicine. Helen Goldring w
 JULIEN-Helen (nee Richman). Beloved wife of the late Alfred S. Julien. Loving mother of Susan Gana, and Stephen and Rima Julien. Adored grandmother of Adam and Jonathan. Dear aunt of Irene Goodman. Great aunt of Maggie, Elizabeth and Ellie. Good friend to George and Hnatiw. Services private
 LALONDE-Gerald V. Suddenly on Saturday, July 11, 1998 at home in London, Ontario at the age of 79. Beloved husband of Lorraine Lalonde (nee Beaugrand-Champagne), dear father of Carole and her husband Robert Beauregard of Bronxville, NY. Please call Madill Funeral Home, 519-264-1100 for dona
 MEYERSON-Morris. The Brotherhood Synagogue extends its condolences to our Honorary Trustee, Frieda Meyerson, on the passing of her beloved husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 REILLEY-Gladys M. Passed peacefully on July 12th. Formerly of Sunnyside, N.Y. She is survived by her three loving grandchildren Kenny, Patrick and Megan.To rest with her beloved son John and her daughter-in-law Barbara. Memorial Service at Setauket Presbyterian, 6pm July 15th.       
 YUSEN-Muriel (nee Spear). Passed away of breast cancer on July 12, 1998. Beloved wife of Henry. Loving mother of Andrew and Darlene Yusen and Susan and Jay Perry. Incredible grandmother of Max Perry, Matthew and Kyle Yusen. Dear sister of Ellen Spear Smith. Services Tuesday, 1:30 PM at Temp
 BERSON-Hilda M. (nee Bayles). Died peacefully on July 12th in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Alvin. Devoted mother of Ann and Joel Berson and Alice and Milton Rubin. Loving grandmother of Richard Kind, Joanne and Michael Hinton, John Berson and Nancy and Jeffrey Lupoff. Devoted gre
 DETWILER-Valerie (nee Byrne), a state of Arizona Community Health Nurse, former resident of Long Beach, Long Island and nineteen year resident of Tucson, died Wednesday, July 1, 1998 at Tucson Medical Hospice Center. She was sixty years old. She was born on December 24, 1937 in the Bronx, N
 HAMERSKY-Helen Marie (nee Kuchma), 71, July 13, 1998 in Oakland, CA., from lung cancer. She is survived by four children, Christine, Stephen, William and Joseph, and four grandchildren, William, Padraic, Nicholas, and Adam.       
 HARRAGAN-Betty. Died July 11. We salute our delightful, outspoken friend, Betty. In appreciation of her humor, accomplishments, presence in our important pioneer work of the 1970's. Sister Feminists of the NY Chapter of NOW       
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Leah. We profoundly regret the passing of Leah Kirschenbaum, our devoted friend. Together with her beloved husband, Judge Irving Kirschenbaum, she enriched the lives of all who knew her. We shall miss her greatly. Elie Wiesel, President Marion Wiesel, V.P. Arnold Thaler, V.P. T
 MERRILL-Vernon L. Of Locust Valley, NY, beloved wife of Robert G. Merrill, died on July 13th after a long battle with breast cancer. She was 72. Mrs. Merrill is survived by six children: Lynn Gray of Locust Valley; Gail Merrill of New Canaan, CT.; Edmund Merrill and Douglas Merrill, both of
 BERMAN-Audrey R., 69. Of Allentown, PA., died Tuesday, July 14, in her home. She was the wife of Bernard Berman. They celebrated their 48th wedding anniversary last March. Born in Hazleton, PA she was the daughter of the late Harry and Helen (Biederman) Roman. She received her Bachelor of A
 CALKINS-Ann L. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the Asia Society note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague and friend, Ann Calkins. As Vice President for External Affairs for the past six years, Ann's professional dedication & personal commitment to the development o
 KOBELL-Mary. On July 14, 1998, of Belle Harbor, NY and East Brunswick, NJ. Beloved wife of Irving Kobell, mother of Adrianne and Michael Eisner and Gerald and Helen Kobell. Grandmother of Wendy Levenkron, Lori and Todd Eisner, Deena, Rona, Aliza, and Daniel Kobell, great grandmother of Matt
 MERRILL-Vernon L. Of Locust Valley, NY, beloved wife of Robert G. Merrill, died on July 13th after a long battle with breast cancer. She was 72. Mrs. Merrill is survived by six children: Lynn Gray of Locust Valley; Gail Merrill of New Canaan, CT.; Edmund Merrill and Douglas Merrill, both of
 MONTEZINOS-Elizabeth. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Dennis B. Freilich, M.D. President       
 PALMER-Marge. The Temple Israel of Long Beach Family marks with profound sorrow the passing of Marge Palmer, past president of Sisterhood and beloved friend. Our heartfelt sympathies to her husband, children, brother, and entire family. Mark I. Samuels, Bruce Sklover, Co-Presidents Marcia K
 PHILLIPS-Merle Patricia. Died peacefully on July 13, 1998 at Georgetown University Medical Center. Born in Falmouth, Jamaica. Patsy was a loving wife to the late Orville Phillips, devoted mother to Robert and Sean and dear sister to Rey, Fay, Barbara, Jean and Joy. She will be sadly missed 
 REICHL-Eva R. Of Princeton, NJ. Died in St. Louis, MO. on July 15, 1998 following a brief severe illness. She is survived by her husband of 59 years, Eric H. Reichl, two daughters, Lynn A. Weyand of Underwood, WA., and Helen R. Gilbert of St. Louis, MO, three grandchildren Timothy E. Weyand
 ROTHSCHILD-Bessie N. 100 years old. Died July 14 at her home. Devoted mother of Barbara and Richard. Beloved grandmother of Jim and Jan Fogel; Lynn, Gail, Emily, Kate and Richard Rothschild. She is also survived by eight great-grandchildren. She founded in the 1940s, and was the first direc
 Chana Timoner, a onetime housewife with such a passionate devotion to tradition and social justice that she became first a rabbi and then the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time Army chaplain, died on Monday at her home in New Haven. She was 46 and had received a medical discharge ea
 KLAIMITZ-Miriam (nee Gross). Beloved wife of Jakob. Respected and loved mother of Heidi and Leni and her husband Mitchell Berg. Caring and loving grandmother to Alexander and Madeline. Sweet peace has come to her after so many brave battles. We shall always miss this remarkable person - her
 LOWSKY-Rose. On July 15, 1998. Loving mother of Howard Lowsky and Barbara Baum. Mother-in-law of Lois Lowsky and Al Baum. Loved by her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Donations to your favorite charity.       
 MERRILL-Vernon L. Of Locust Valley, NY, beloved wife of Robert G. Merrill, died on July 13th after a long battle with breast cancer. She was 72. Mrs. Merrill is survived by six children: Lynn Gray of Locust Valley; Gail Merrill of New Canaan, CT.; Edmund Merrill and Douglas Merrill, both of
 ROTHSCHILD-Bessie N. 100 years old. Died July 14 at her home. Funeral was private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the 92nd Street Y or to the Yad B'ad program, NCJW, 53 West 23rd Street, New York, NY 10010.       
 SILVER-Bertha. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Carol Green, President       
 O'CONNELL-Patricia S. Died suddenly Thursday evening, July 16th, 1998 at her home on Cove Hollow Road in Easthampton, New York. Beloved wife of John J. O'Connell, a former Vice President for labor relations at Bethlehem Steel. Loving mother of Ryan, Matthew, Micaela, Carey, Colin and Timoth
 WEINSTOCK-Blanche Godlis. Beloved wife of the late Albert Godlis and the late Emanuel Weinstock. Devoted father of Barbara Orenstein, Diane Cohen and David Godlis. Cherished grandmother of Laura and Robert Levites, Jason, Claudia & Alan Philips, and Sadie Godlis. Dear sister of Gerald Herzl
 Ruth Snedden Shoup, whose many years in New York public affairs and whose tenure on the city's Board of Higher Education bridged the mayoralties of Fiorello H. La Guardia and John V. Lindsay, died on June 25 at Ledges retirement home in Laconia, N.H. A former resident of Riverdale, the Bron
 Geraldine Owen Delaney, a nutritionist who founded a highly regarded New Jersey treatment center for people recovering from alcohol and drug addictions, as she had, died on July 9 at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. She was 91 and lived in Frelinghuysen Township. In 1957, sh
 LEUBSDORF-Bertha Boschwitz. Died at the age of 90 on July 17, 1998. Dear wife of the late Karl Leubsdorf, caring mother of Carl and John Leubsdorf, proud and loving grandmother. Trained as a mathematician at a time when few women entered that field, with degrees from Hunter College and Colu
 LOWSKY-Rose. On July 15, 1998. Loving mother of Howard Lowsky and Barbara Baum. Mother-in-law of Lois Lowsky and Al Baum. Loved by her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Donations to your favorite charity.       
 O'CONNELL-Patricia S. Died suddenly Thursday evening, July 16th, 1998 at her home on Cove Hollow Road in Easthampton, New York. Beloved wife of John J. O'Connell, a former Vice President for industrial relations at Bethlehem Steel. Loving mother of Ryan, Matthew, Micaela, Carey, Colin and T
 SISSMAN-Ruth. On July 17, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Max. Caring mother and grandmother. Former officer of National Council of Jewish Women and the Older Women's League. Showed strength and courage battling ovarian cancer. She will always be in our hearts.       
 SOLOMON-Evelyn. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Leslie, his wife, and four children. We miss her terribly and hope she is with her deceased parents, Dr. E. Wainess and wife Ethel.       
 Gisella Caccialanza, a major American ballerina with George Balanchine's first New York company and with the San Francisco Ballet, died on Thursday in Seton Hospital in Daly City, Calif. She was 83 and lived in San Bruno, Calif. The cause was a stroke, said Diane Kounalakis, associa
 BODAY-Martha Wilbourn Boden. Widow of Walter A. Boden and George K. Boday, died in Southampton, L.I., on July 16, 1998, just three days short of her 91st birthday. A long-time resident of Garden City, she is survived by her son, Robert W. Boden, of Cincinnati, Ohio, her daughter and son-inl
 BUTLER-Bernice (nee Healy). Died on July 18, 1998. Beloved wife of the late John A. Butler. Survived by brother Harold J. Healy and sister-in-law Judith S. Healy. A native New Yorker and longtime resident of Fort Lee, NJ, and Washington Heights, NY. In her lifetime she held executive positi
 KHOURY-Josephine Halaby. July 17, 1998, after a prolonged illness. Wife of the late Nazem. Her gentleness and love are eternal through her children Camille, Brenda, Denise, Ronald and Janet, and her ten grandchildren. Calling hours Monday. Services Tuesday, 10 AM. Contact McLaughlin's for i
 LEUBSDORF-Bertha Boschwitz. The Board of Directors of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College mourns the death of Bertha Boschwitz Leubsdorf, a past president of the fund. Bertha Leubsdorf brought outstanding leadership and generosity to the fund during 
 WOLFF-Herta. A longtime resident of New York, NY, died on July 17, 1998. She was 88 years old. Beloved Oma to Lothar (Larry), Michelle, Rhonda, Steven, Wayne, Steve, Heidi and Vickie. Greatgrandmother of Nina, Michael, Karly, Jade, Amber and Josh. Preceded in death by her loving husbands We
 HUMSTONE-Helen Lippitt. Of Douglaston, NY, wife of the late Millard Humstone, on July 15th. Beloved mother of Carol F., Elizabeth, Mary M., and Thomas D. Humstone, and grandmother of Christopher C. Gignoux, Elizabeth H. and Lindsay W. Burnette. Contributions may be made in her memory to Zio
 LIDA-Sabina W. Beloved mother, devoted friend, supportive colleague, social worker, generous donor to charities and liberal causes, Holocaust survivor. Died peacefully in her sleep on Saturday, July 18, 1998. She will be missed by her son David, daughter-in-law Judy, and numerous friends an
 REICHEK-Bessie D. Died on July 20th, 1998 at age 89. Beloved wife of Max Reichek. Beloved mother of Ruth Baron and Nathaniel Reichek. Loving grandmother to Jennifer and Matthew Reichek and Rafe Baron. Devoted sister to Solomon, Joseph and Wolf Citron who predeceased her. Beloved mother-in-l
 ROLFE-Mitzi. Of Key Biscayne, Florida, passed away July 19, 1998. Beloved wife of Arthur, cherished mother of Richard, Rose, and sonin-law Kevin, sister of Helen and her late sister Harriet. We will miss her deeply.       
 WILLIAMS-Doris. The members & our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed colleague, Leslie Williams & the entire family on the passing on July 18, 1998 of Les' beloved wife, Doris. Her courage and hope will be an enduring inspiration to all who knew her. Herbert 
 ALBERT-Judith F. Of Mill Neck, N.Y., on July 20. Beloved wife of Arthur. Cherished daughter of Florence Carman. She was the President of the Alberts Design Co., Inc. a toy and doll design company. Visiting at the Francis P. DeVine Funeral Home Inc., 293 South Street, Oyster Bay, on Wednesda
 CASKEY-Helen H. Aged 95, died on July 20, at the Arden Hill Life Care Center in Goshen, NY. She is fondly remembered by her children Helen Tison Hilton, Paul (Tom) Tison, Jr, and Mary Tison Wheeler and by her stepdaughter, Jane Caskey Tuttle as well as her nine grandchildren, seven stepgran
 KOPPEL-Lena. On July 20, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Cyrus Honig, and Benjamin Koppel, loving mother of Carole Klein, and Les Honig, beloved grandmother of William Klein and Emily McGrath, also survived by 2 grandchildren, Samuel and Sophia. Her warmth and sweetness touched everyone she 
 MICHELFELDER-Phyllis Deveneau. Of Gulfstream, FL, was born in Chicago, Illinois, on December 30, 1921 and died on July 18, 1998, at Boynton Beach, FL., following complications from surgery. She was predeceased by her husband, William F. Michelfelder, author & freelance writer. Mrs. Michelfe
 ROLFE-Mitzi. Of Key Biscayne, Florida, passed away July 19, 1998. Beloved wife of Arthur, cherished mother of Richard, Rose, and sonin-law Kevin, sister of Helen and her late sister Harriet. We will miss her deeply.       
 SOUTHGATE-Patsy. In memory of the Lady who died four days after Bastile Day. With condolences to Joe LeSueur, her son, Luke; her daughter, Sara; her daughter-inlaw, Jean; and her grandchildren, Andy and Joe. Services at the Amagansett Presbyterian Church, Thursday, July 23, at 4 P.M.       
 WIENER-Ann. Daughter to Etta and Israel Saphiro. Beloved sister of Isaac (Ike) Wiener and Julia Wiener Bernstein. Aunt to Harold Bernstein and the late Raymond Bernstein. She was the aunt-in-law to Elayne Bernstein and Selma Bernstein. Great aunt to the Bernstein and Greenberg children. She
 CASKEY-Helen H. Aged 95, died on July 20, at the Arden Hill Life Care Center in Goshen, NY. She is fondly remembered by her children Helen Tison Hilton, Paul (Tom) Tison, Jr, and Mary Tison Wheeler and by her stepdaughter, Jane Caskey Tuttle as well as her nine grandchildren, seven stepgran
 McNABB-Helen. On July 21, 1998. Of cancer. At Calvary Hospital. Helen was a gifted teacher of English at Hendrick Hudson High School for many years. She was a proud graduate of the Academy of Mt. Saint Ursula and New Rochelle College. She was an active parishoner of St. Nicholas of Tolentin
 SCHNEE-Amanda Meryl, Dr. Died on Sunday, July 19th, at the age of 52. She was born in North Berwick, Scotland, and completed a medical degree at St. Andrew's University in 1968. She began her career as a physician in Scotland and continued it in the United States, where she served as a civi
 WIENER-Ann. Daughter to Etta and Israel Saphiro. Beloved sister of Isaac (Ike) Wiener and Julia Wiener Bernstein. Aunt to Harold Bernstein and the late Raymond Bernstein. She was the aunt-in-law to Elayne Bernstein and Selma Bernstein. Great aunt to the Bernstein and Greenberg children. She
 ZUCKERMAN-Beatrice. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its long time member and mother of our member, Jeffrey Zuckerman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 CHARNEY-Ruth S. July 20,1998. Loving wife of the late Herman Charney. Dear sister of Martha, aunt of Joann, Michael and Peter. In lieu of flowers, contribution may be made to her favorite charity: New York Public Library, 42 St., Manhattan, in her name.       
 GROSSMAN-Bertha. Sincere condolences to Susan Friedland and family on the passing of her loving mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother and our dear aunt. Always in our hearts. Will always be missed and always remembered. Larry Levinson and Joe DeLeo       
 HAUSMAN-Judy (nee Stern) died suddenly in Jerusalem on July 22. Beloved wife of the late Gerson Hausman. Loving & loved mother of Miriam Hausman, Evelyn and Sylvain Jakabovics and Reva Hausman. Treasured Grandma of Andrew, Allison & Barrie Jakabovics. Dearest sister of Ruth Danis, the late 
 JACKNESS-Claire. On July 21, 1998. Life partner to her husband Nathan; cherished mother of Ted, Carolyn & daughter-in-law Aimee; beloved grandmother of Kimberly and David. We will never forget what you did for us.       
 LINDER-Ruth. Optimistic, sparkling spirit. Passed away on July 22, 1998. Beloved mother and cherished wife of the late Phillip Linder. Ruth will be deeply missed by her devoted son Robert and daughter-in-law Ronnie, family and friends. Services Sunday 10:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. 
 MAYER-Joseph. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Sandy Insler and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 Edith Appleton Standen, one of the world's leading authorities on tapestries and a longtime curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last weekend at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Ms. Standen's writings, which include an award-winning, two-volume catalogue of the Met's Eu
 APRIL-Sybil. In Bridgeport, CT, widow of Bertram April, succumbed to lung cancer after five years on July 24, 1998. Beloved mother of Anna April of Brookline, MA, Steven and Cathey April of Westport, CT, devoted sister of Selma Rosenblatt of Bridgeport, CT, loving grandmother of Joseph and 
 HAUSMAN-Judy. The Board of Directors, the residents and staff of 465 West End Avenue mourn the passing of our dear friend Judy Hausman-concerned neighbor, loyal board member, and gracious hostess. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. We shall all miss her. John Miller, President  
 HURWITZ-Sandra. Loving wife of William. Beloved mother of Rosalind (Scott), Joel and Jennifer. Grandmother of Samantha. Sister of Charles. A woman of strength and dignity, courage and compassion who was loved by all who knew her. Service Sunday 11AM at Westchester Reform Temple, Scarsdale, 
 NEWMAN-Sylvia Greenblatt. On July 22nd, 1998 in her 90th year. Beloved daughter, sister, aunt and great-aunt.       
 SCHWARTZ-Irene M. On July 24, 1998. Deeply beloved wife of Larry. Wonderful mother of Mickey and his dear wife Kathy, Nancy Hershcopf and her dear husband Steve, Patti Guignino and her dear husband George. Adored and devoted grandmother of Jennifer, Brian, Ronnie and Elizabeth. A brilliant,
 Bertha Boschwitz Leubsdorf, a volunteer and philanthropist who endowed the Karl and Bertha Leubsdorf Gallery at Hunter College, died on July 17 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 90. A native of Berlin, she moved to New York as a girl and graduated from Hunter 
 APALE-Gloria B., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff of the hospital's Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program in acknowledging the sudden and tragic death of our dear friend and colleague, Gloria B. Apale, M.D., a member of the MMTP
 HART-Laura. Widow of Ralph A. Hart. Died at her home in Palm Beach, Florida on July 19, at the age of 92. Born in Saskatchewan, Canada, she moved with her husband & daughter Gay from Toronto to Bombay to Sydney and Paris before coming to Short Hills, New Jersey in 1954. She and Mr. Hart lat
 HAUSMAN-Judy. The Board of Directors, the residents and staff of 465 West End Avenue mourn the passing of our dear friend Judy Hausman-concerned neighbor, loyal board member, and gracious hostess. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. We shall all miss her. John Miller, President  
 JOHNSON-Janice. Age forty-five, passed away on July 3rd. A professional artist at the peak of her career with representation with Margulies/Taplin Gallery in Coral Gables, Florida and Woodward Gallery in New York City. The highly educated Johnson specialized in the ancient technique of enca
 JULIUS-Alice P. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Cherished mother of Robert, Bonnie and her husband Martin. Loving sister of Rhoda. Devoted grandmother of Pamela, Julie, David, Zachary and their spouses Paul, Joanne and Allison. Adoring great-grandmother of Taryn, Jordan, James and Lindsey.
 MAZURE-Roberta C. On July 23, 1998. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Lisa and Caren. Adoring grandmother of Sara and Harris. Daughter of Jean. Sister of Eileen. Aunt of Michael. Her strong will, warm heart and great generosity will always be remembered. Visiting Saturday, 7-9PM. Serv
 NALL-Violet Lillian (nee Collison). Age 67, of New York City, died July 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Milas Lee. Devoted mother of Estella Grace. She is also survived by brother Dwain, sisters Effie McMartin and Beryl McCracken, and many nieces and nephews, all of whom loved her and will miss he
 QUINTON-Ella (nee Lauterstein). Died peacefully at age 102 in Florida. She was a loving mother, grandmother and great grandmother, and a brave and uniquely indomitable spirit. Services today, July 26, 1998, 2:30 PM at Gutterman's Inc. (Parkside Building), 9860 Queen's Blvd (corner 66th Aven
 SCHORE-Muriel V. On July 22, 1998. Loving mother of Jane and Roger. She will be fondly remembered for her generous spirit, humor and good nature. Funeral services will be held at Union Field Cemetery, 8211 Cypress Avenue, Ridgewood, NY, on Monday, July 27, at 1 PM.       
 STANDEN-Edith. The Trustees and Staff of the Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with affection and deep sadnees the passing of their respected colleague and friend, Edith Standen, who was Curator Emeritus of the Department of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts, and a renowned and prolific
 STONEHILL - Norma Liebling. Died on July 24, 1998 at age 89 in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Harold Stonehill for 59 years. Sister of the late A.J. Liebling and daughter of Joseph and Anna Liebling. Devoted mother of Arthur, John, and Robert Stonehill. Friend and mother-in-law of 
 Patsy Southgate, a writer and translator who helped inspire the literary flowering of Paris in the 1950's and later helped establish the writers' colony on eastern Long Island, becoming a beloved intimate of many of the leading artists of her day, died on July 18 at the Stony Brook Universi
 AIKEN-Elaine A. The Actors Conservatory, Family and Friends ofBeloved Acting Teacher, Elaine Aiken are proud to announce a tribute celebration for her life at Joe Allen's Restaurant, on Monday, July 27, 1998, 2:30-5 P M.       
 BARTFIELD-Helen. Died on July 25. Deeply beloved wife of Ira. Caring daughter of Theresa. Devoted mother of Ross, Scott and Geoffrey. Loving sister of Shirley. Cherished grandmother of Talia and Oliva. A Board Certified diplomate psychotherapist. She was a graduate of Columbia Unviversity S
 GALLARD-Rosalind. Wife of the late F. Edmund Gallard. Mother of Don Gallard of Denver, CO; Lorraine Gallard of Bethesda, MD; and Ken Gallard of Taos, NM. Sister of Walter Abrams of Valley Stream, NY. Grandmother of Dewey Gallard and Solomon Kuckelman. Lifelong friend of Roz and Murray Marti
 LEVI-Erna. Died peacefully on July 25, 1998, after a long illness. A lady of talent and grace who touched the lives of many with her great taste and her eye for beauty. Funeral private. In lieu of flowers, donations to Barbara Weissman Cancer Fund of Beth Israel Hospital, 170 East End Avenu
 MALDEN-Joan Williams. Of Massapequa, NY. Died on July 22, 1998. Beloved daughter of Myrtle and Sidney Siegel. She is survived by her sister Marjorie Ewald; her five children: Marc Chasnov, Robin Antila, Debra Viniar, David Chasnov, and Kristine Malden; and her eight grandchildren. Joan was 
 Elaine Aiken, a Method acting teacher, former member of the Actors Studio and a founder and director of Actors Conservatory in Manhattan, died on July 12 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was cancer, said Lily Lodge, the other founder and directo
 BLAUSTEN-Syd (nee Bush). On July 27, 1998. Loving wife of the late Dr. Sam. Adored and devoted mother of Frederica (Bogdan), Jonathan (Dawn) & Edmond (Toshiko). Of Allendale, N.J., formerly of Great Neck, N.Y. A graduate of Brooklyn College, Manhattan School of Music and Columbia University
 BRADEN-Lachlan P. The Board & staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of our former trustee, friend, and supporter, Lachlan P. Braden. A gifted painter, her gentle wisdom will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Bill, he
 DAWSON-Patricia A. Died in San Rafael, CA, at age of 73. She was a retired sales supervisor for United Airlines after 35 years. Survived by her brother John W. Dawson of Branford, CT. A funeral mass will be celebrated at 9:30AM, Tuesday, Aug. 4, 1998, at St. Joachin Church, Cedarhurst, NY. 
 HIGGINS-Florence H. (Herbaugh), 83. Of Duxbury, MA., July 20. She was the wife of the late William W. Higgins, to whom she was married for 54 years. Mother of Suzanne Higgins of S. Easton, MA., Ruthellen (Kiki) Sanders of Barrington, N.H., and H. Scott Higgins of Greenwich, CT. She also lea
 JULIUS-Alice P. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Life Member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Murray B. Hirsch, President Howard Ecker, Secretary       
 KRAMER-Blanche W. On July 28, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of WCBS-TV Correspondent Marcia Kramer and Attorney Bradley A. Kramer of Los Angeles, California. Dear mother-in-law of Marc Kalech, Managing Editor of the New York Post. Adoring Grammy of Margot and Max. Devo
 LERMAN-Minnie. The Board of Visitors, the Dean, Faculty and Staff of Pace University School of Law express our deepest sympathy to Adele Lerman Janow, our President of the Law School Alumni Association, on the passing of her beloved mother, Minnie.       
 MORGENS-Marie. A Holocaust survivor, died on July 27, the day of her 87th birthday. She was an adored and devoted wife, a loving and wise mother, grandmother and mother-in-law. She was a good friend to many. As a talented artist, she leaves behind a legacy of beauty for her husband, Frank M
 PENNINGTON-Evelyn W. 92. Died July 27, 1998 in Wilmington, DE. She was a graduate of Barnard College of Columbia University, Class of 1929. She was a member of Christ Church Christiana Hundred, Greenville, DE. Her husband, Alfred William Pennington, M.D. died in 1959. She is survived by son
 SHAYON-Ethel (Liese). At 94, in Scotch Plains, NJ, July 27th, 1998. Widow of Samuel Shayon, lawyer, NY, CA., and VA. She is survived by daughter Manya S. Ungar and son-in-law H.F. ''Skip'' Ungar, Scotch Plains, grandsons Paul and Michael Ungar, & great-grandsons Miles, Cole, Samuel and Benj
 SILBERMAN-Marian (Gootnick). Of Lenox, MA. formerly of Brooklyn and Manhattan, in Pittsfield, MA., July 26, 1998. Survived by her loving husband Paul, sister Felice Mirkin and step-daughter Claire Cabiles and two grandchildren. Funeral Wed., July 29, 1998 at 11AM at Roche Funeral Home, 120 
 SKOPP-Roberta, 51. Of cardiac arrest. Survived by her husband Stephen, mother Sara, brother Jeff, niece Aiyla and nephew Avram. A native New Yorker, she lived in Los Angeles where she worked as publicist for Harman International. Her career spanned the music, financial and consumer electron
 SUSS-Sharon G. The partners of Citrin Cooperman & Company, LLP, express their deepest sympathy at the passing of their partner and friend, Sharon G. Suss. We share in the sorrow with her husband, Mark D. Moskowitz, and their son, Matthew Noah. Our hearts reach out to her family. We will all
 TAI-Ping Y. The American Heart Association in New York City mourns the loss of Mrs. Ping Y. Tai. Mrs. Tai and her family have enhanced the fight against heart disease and stroke through their longtime generosity and sponsorship of research and young medical scientists. We extend our warm co
 UNDERHILL-Celeste H. At the age of 98 at San Simeon by the Sound in Greenport, New York on July 26. A 65-year resident of Shelter Island Heights, New York, she was born in New York City on April 14, 1900 and was a graduate of Erasmus Hall. A descendant of Benjamin Mendez Seixas, a lieutenan
 Binnie Barnes, an English actress who was lured to Hollywood after her role as Catherine Howard in ''The Private Life of Henry VIII,'' the 1933 film starring Charles Laughton, died on Monday at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 95. After a stint as a milkmaid at 15, the auburn-hair
 COTLIAR-Laura Lee (Sporn) died July 26, 1998. Wife of Dr. Arthur Cotliar. Loving mother of Jeremy Michael and Dustin Lee Cotliar. Dear sister of Eddie Sporn and Tova Gazala. Beloved daughter of the late Elinore Sporn and the late Abraham Sporn; dear daughter-inlaw of William & Eleanor Cotli
 GLASS-Muriel H. On Wednesday, July 29th, 1998. Of Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of Jonas Glass. Cherished mother of Clifford R. Adored sister of the late Regina Levin and Blanche. Adored sister-in-law of Dan, Walter & the late M. Milton, Belle Walke and Mollye Ward. She will be remembered by 
 KRAMER-Blanche W. On July 28, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of WCBS-TV Correspondent Marcia Kramer and Attorney Bradley A. Kramer of Los Angeles, California. Dear mother-in-law of Marc Kalech, Managing Editor of the New York Post. Adoring Grammy of Margot and Max. Devo
 MALONEY-Eileen E. (nee Fallon) passed away on Tuesday July 28, 1998 after a long and valiant fight against cancer. A dedicated educator, passionate cook and wonderful friend, she had a quick wit and a kind heart. Eileen will be greatly missed by her loving family and friends. Memorial servi
 MILLER-Barbara, 66. Of Stamford, CT. died Wednesday, July 29, 1998 at Stamford Hospital. The cause of death was lung cancer. She died peacefully surrounded by her family. Generous and warmhearted wife and mother, Barbara is survived by her husband of forty-three years Stan, her children Eli
 NIRENBLATT-Florence Mazo, 87. Of Charleston, SC, widow of Bernard Nirenblatt, died July 30, 1998. Graveside services will be held at 2 P.M., Friday, July 31, 1998, in Emanu-el Cemetery, directed by J. Henry Stuhr, Inc, Downtown Chapel. Mrs. Nirenblatt was born March 6, 1911 in Charleston, S
 WARNER-Mary Mosher. On June 22, 1998 at her residence in Upper Nyack. She was a former teacher. Survived by her husband, Charles H. Warner Jr., son Mark, daughter-in-law Susan, two grandchildren: Mark Jr., Amy. Predeceased by a son, Peter. Funeral services were held in Nyack, July 11, 1998.
