 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 GALLEN-Betty, died peacefully at her home Friday, October 30, 1998. Beloved wife of Herbert for 61 years, loving mother of Joan Megibow and Nancy Scheriff, dear sister of Doris Konner, devoted grandmother to Terri and Andrew Megibow, Michael, Adam and Todd Runyon, Tracy and Megan Scheriff, 
 HINRICHS-Marion McDonald. 87, of Greenwich, CT and Quogue, NY died peacefully at her home in Greenwich on October 29, 1998. Mrs. Hinrichs was born in Evanston, IL in 1911. She was a graduate of Wellesley College, and had been an active volunteer at Lawrence Hospital, Bronxville, NY, the Ame
 KATZ-Helen. Passed away October 29, 1998. Of Delray Beach, FL. Loving wife of the late William, adored mother of Marlene (Marvin) Padover, George (Evelyn) Katz and Adele Katz. Cherished grandmother of Roger, Craig, Kenneth, Mitchell, Richard and Douglas. Most cherished greatgrandmother of h
 KELLEHER-M. Eileen. 79. Of Norwich, CT. Beloved wife of the late Dr. James H. Kelleher. Died October 29, 1998 after a brief illness. Devoted mother of Michael of Chevy Chase, MD; Kathleen Belinga of Columbia, SC; Colleen Halloran of Dover, MA; Jane Sobolov of Goffstown, NH; Sara Ann Klemmer
 KLAUSNER-Mildred ''Mickey'', formerly of Jersey City, N.J. passed away 10/16 in Palm Beach, two weeks after her 97th birthday. Married to the late David Klausner who passed away in 1984, Mickey is survived by sons Robert and William; brothers Dr. Seymour Miller and Stanley Miller. She was a
 KOREIN-Sarah. The Boys Town Jersualem family mourns the passing of Mrs. Sarah Korein, a respected philanthropist committed to the ideals of her sacred Jewish heritage. She accompanied her grandfather when he left Dresden to live a life of sanctity in Jerusalem. Though she left Israel 70 yea
 LAWRENCE - Barbara Childs. Died peacefully at her home, South Pole Farm in Norfolk, Connecticut on October 23, 1998 at the age of 86. She was the widow of James F. Lawrence and was predeceased by two children, Peter F. Lawrence & Jane Lawrence Mali. She is survived by four children: Barbara
 MANN-Helen H. On October 30, 1998. Dear sister of Joan Wickert and Elfriede Bernstein. Loving aunt of Michael and Victor Bernstein. She will be profoundly missed and always remembered by her family and friends. Graveside service Tuesday, 2 PM, at Beth El Cemetery.       
 TIMPSON-Eleanor Rosemary of Essex Fells, N.J. and Chatham, MA. With great sadness her family mourns her death on October 22, 1998. Rosemary was born in Orange, N.J. on May 16th, 1911. She attended Vassar College, where she was involved with the Vassar Experimental Theatre. After graduation,
 Nancy Van Norman Baer, the curator of theater and dance at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Tuesday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. Ms. Baer was 55 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was cancer, said Pamela Forbes, director of media at th
 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 KAYE-Sheila. October 31, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Abner. Loving mother of Bruce. Dear sister of Lee, Sally and Morris. Cherished grandmother of Chelsea. Esteemed aunt of Joan, Eleanor, Sonny, Leonard, Freddie, Larry, Brian, Joyce and Roger. Sheila will be deeply missed by all those wh
 LAWRENCE - Barbara Childs. Died peacefully at her home, South Pole Farm in Norfolk, Connecticut on October 23, 1998 at the age of 86. She was the widow of James F. Lawrence and was predeceased by two children, Peter F. Lawrence & Jane Lawrence Mali. She is survived by four children: Barbara
 SALOMON-Rosalind. Died peacefully on October 30, 1998 at the age of 93. She was the beloved wife of the late Gustav Salomon, M.D. The loving mother of Alice and Seymour Rothman and Caryl and George Bernstein. Grandmother of Ellen and Richard Passov, Mark and Phyllis Terry, Alexander Rothman
 WELLS-Herta G. Beloved and loving mother of Nora (Ted) Weinreich, Peter (Joan) Wells; adored and adoring grandmother of Karen, Elizabeth, Ralph, David, Jennifer and Rebecca; and pre-deceased by her husband Egon F. Wells, died at her home in Miami, Florida, peacefully at 6 AM, Sunday, Novemb
 GALLEN-Betty. Daughters of Miriam Center/The Gallen Institute, a long-term care and rehabilitation facility located in Clifton, NJ, lost a close friend and benefactor with the passing of Betty Gallen. A champion of the elderly and steadfast supporter of the Center, Betty and her husband Her
 KATZ-Eleanor. The Officers, Members and Staff of the American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Eleanor Katz, who had served as AJC's Director of Personnel for more than 20 years when she retired in 1977. We send our heartfelt condolences to her family. Bruce M. Ramer, Pr
 KAYE-Sheila. October 31, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Abner. Loving mother of Bruce. Dear sister of Lee, Sally and Morris. Cherished grandmother of Chelsea. Esteemed aunt of Joan, Eleanor, Sonny, Leonard, Freddie, Larry, Brian, Joyce and Roger. Sheila will be deeply missed by all those wh
 KERSTER-Miriam Fogel. Died peacefully on November 1, 1998. Loving sister of Aviva and Herschel. Her unique, personal style and joie de vivre will be greatly missed. Family will mourn privately. A celebration in memory of Miriam will be held January 9, 1999. Contributions in her memory may b
 KOREIN-Sarah. On October 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Isidor. Loving mother of Julius and Elysabeth. Dear sister of Esther. Adoring grandmother of James, Jonathan, Beth and Peter; nine great-grandchildren. Private services. No flowers, please. The family of Sarah Korein wishes to than
 LUBINSKY-Pessie Bayla. The Metropolitan New York Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the loss of Pessie Bayla Lubinsky, mother of our esteemed Chairman of the Board of Directors, Menachem Lubinsky. Pessie Lubinsky was an inspiration to her family and to the Jewish community as a w
 MAY-Dora died peacefully at her home at the age of 87. A holocaust survivor who with her deceased husband Joe saved her infant son by fleeing into the woods. Her courage and devotion to her family will never be forgotten. Loving mother of Marcia May, Sanford and his wife Louise. Cherished g
 SUMIN-Dorothy. on November 1, 1998. Much loved mother of Barbara and Stephanie. Sister of Esther Ross and Julius Gurevitz. Dear sister-in-law of Sally. Remarkable grandmother of Paul, Jason and Richard. Fiercely devoted to her family, friends and the causes she believed in. Memorial service
 WILKES-Margaret, 48. Of NYC and Greensboro, N.C., on October 17, 1998 from ovarian cancer. She led a long and successful career as a director in apparel and advertising. She is survived by husband, Allen Holt Gwyn, her son Stephen Denslow of Sandusky, OH., and brothers, John Wilkes of NYC a
 ZOLA CAHN-Lenore. The Village Temple mourns the passing of one of our long-time members, Mrs. Lenore Cahn Zola, 91 years old. Our condolences to children, Edgar S. Cahn and Mary Cahn Schwartz, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Lenore was an active and beloved community member. She will
 BUZDOVACIC-Damira. Nov. 1, 1998. Loving daughter, sister, aunt & friend to all who came into her path. Exceptionally gifted, deeply religious & profoundly benevolent, she left us too young and too soon. Her guiding light and generosity of spirit will be dearly missed. May she rest in peace.
 GRIFFITHS-Carolyn. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the loss of Carolyn Griffiths, a beloved, talented, and respected member of our administrative staff. We share in her family's bereavement and will remember Carolyn, John and Henrietta in our prayers. Frank J. Carnabuci, Headmaster The
 KATZ-Eleanor. On November 2, 1998. Sister of the late Edith Rosston. Beloved aunt of Susan Rosenberg and great-aunt of Mara and Heather Rosenberg. Longtime devoted friend of many. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 KOREIN-Sarah. We mourn the loss of a remarkable woman and valued client. Our heartfelt condolences to Julius, Elysabeth, James, Jonathan, Beth and Peter and her great grandchildren. Lawrence N. Friedland Samuel P. Roth Warren Gleicher Hoffinger Friedland Dobrish & Stern, PC KOREIN-S
 LAPHAM-Jane Foster. Age 87, on October 27 in her home in Greenwich, CT., after a short illness. Devoted wife of the late Lewis A. Lapham. Beloved mother of two sons, Lewis H. and Anthony A. Loving grandmother of Nicholas, David, Andrew, Delphina and Winston Lapham. A memorial service will b
 SPIRA-Molly. Died peacefully on November 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Bernhard Spira. Loving mother of Steven and Gale, Robert and Naomi. Dear sister of Eva. Adoring grandmother of Jennifer and David, David and Michele, Avi, Daniele, Etan and Benjamin. Great-grandmother to Max, Lily, S
 TILT-Victoria P. Devoted daughter of Albert and the late Mary C. Born 1939, Vicki graduated from Miss Porter's School in 1957 and completed her studies at Briarcliff College in 1959. Vicki spent over 20 years in the travel business with Fredric Helton in Manhattan, NY. She was a woman of gr
 MOORE-Louise Lane. Born May 29, 1898. Died peacefully September 9, 1998. She was married to the late Harry A. Moore. She was a past President of Phi Mu Fraternity, active in AAUW and Marble Church. Memorial service at Marble Church, 29th St and 5th Ave, New York City, November 7, 1998, 12:3
 Sarah Korein, who acquired some of the choicest real estate in Manhattan through bare-knuckle tactics cloaked by grandmotherly charm, died on Thursday at the North Division of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 93 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, said
 Lenore Cahn Zola, whose aid to a relative she did not know indirectly helped document the horrors of the Holocaust and who became an advocate for the elderly and sick, died on Nov. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91. A longtime member of Manhattan Community Board N
 BONANNO-Joseph. On November 4, 1998 of Valley Stream, NY. Past proprietor of Danny's Haven of Baldwin and Joe's Place of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved husband of Flora (nee Rainone), loving father of Lucille Iconis and her husband Arthur, cherished granfather of Joseph and Philip Iconis, de
 GRIFFITHS-Carolyn. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the loss of Carolyn Griffiths, a beloved, talented, and respected member of our administrative staff. We share in her family's bereavement and will remember Carolyn, John and Henrietta in our prayers. Frank J. Carnabuci, Headmaster The
 JOHNSON-Mary Ann. Resident of Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV, at home on November 3, 1998, after a brief illness. Wake Friday, November 6, 8:30 P.M. at St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Catholic Church, in Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV. Funeral Mass of Christian burial, Saturday, November 7, 12:30 P.M. Born in 
 McLAUGHLIN-Helen G. (Grogan) 83 years of Charlottesville, VA on November 3, 1998. Formerly of Queens, NY. she was a 38 year employee of the Exxon Corp NYC. For information call M. David DeMarco Funeral Home 732-521-0555       
 VISHNIAC-Lea (Luta). Much beloved mother, mother-in-law, grandmother and great grandmother died in her sleep at home, November 4, 1998. Memorial Services to be arranged. Mara Vishniac Kohn and Walter Kohn, Santa Barbara Naomi Schiff Benjamin Schiff Helen Vishniac Ethan Vishniac Ephraim Vish
 Nina Youshkevitch, a Russian-born American ballerina who was a leading dancer in Bronislava Nijinska's ballets and a longtime ballet teacher in New York, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. She had been undergoing treatment for cancer, said her 
 BLAU-Gina. Known professionally as Shrimathi Gina, outstanding East Indian dancer of NYC, age 92, on October 23rd. Survived by loving sisters, Jeanette Silverman and Gladys Satzman. Service held at home of Ann Aviles, her niece. Memorial Sunday, November 8th, 4PM, at Gallery 678, 678 Broadw
 HEWITT-Mrs. Martha, 93. Longtime resident of Denver, NY, died November 4, 1998. Mrs. Hewitt was born Martha Mary Sutter, 152 W. 52 St., NYC, on Oct. 8, 1905. For over 40 years Mrs. Hewitt and her late husband, John B. Hewitt, Sr., ran the Catskills vacation boarding house, Crystal Spring Fa
 JOHNSON-Mary Ann. Resident of Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV, at home on November 3, 1998, after a brief illness. Wake Friday, November 6, 8:30 P.M. at St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Catholic Church, in Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV. Funeral Mass of Christian burial, Saturday, November 7, 12:30 P.M. Born in 
 KOREIN-Sarah. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Sarah Korein. Mrs. Korein was a long-time and devoted friend of the Hospital for over 12 years, whose tremendous generosity in establishing The K
 PERNOKIS-Olga S. On November 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Evans W., M.D. Loving mother of Patricia West and her husband Ormand. Adored grandmother of Kristin and Andrew. Dear sister of Andrew Stuart, M.D. Reposing at Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home, 117 West 72 St, NYC, on Friday, 79PM. R
 PETERS-Pauline. The Board of Directors of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, and Saint Agnes Hospital extend their deepest sympathy to Arlene Peters Horan, and to her husband, our President and CEO, Gary Horan, on the death of her beloved mother. Edwin S.
 ROBERTSON-Anne McKillop died at Rosedale Hospice in Calgary, Alberta, Canada on November 1, 1998 after a brief illness. Anne is survived by her three daughters, Leslie (Peter Mikols) with granddaughter Lauren of Harvie Heights, Alberta, Joan DeMello (Jimmy) of Syracuse, N.Y. and Pamela of S
 SHIPLEY-Madeleine S. Beloved wife, mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, friend, Realtor nonpareil and fifth-generation New Yorker died November 4, 1998 at her home, of complications from emphysema. She will be sorely missed by all those whose lives she touched so profoundly. A memorial servi
 SIROLA-Ana. Mother of well known film, television and theatre performer Joe Sirola. Died November 4 at the age of 97 after a brief illness. Born in Croatia on July 23, 1901, she came through Ellis Island in 1927 pregnant, with her husband Anton. Anton worked 20 hours a day as a carpenter. A
 WEITZENBERG-Ann, on November 4, 1998, died peacefully at her home in Scarsdale after a brief illness. Predeceased by her husband, Nat. Survived by her children, Sheila, Irene, and Stanley, and her grandchildren, Randi and Laurie. A most dignified, gracious and courageous woman. May she fore
 WENIG-Jerome. Dear Jerry, our friendship was special, socially our good times were many and competing on the golf course for over 35 years provides us with the pleasant memories we shall always treasure. Rest peacefully dear friend, we shall miss you and will always remember you. Terry and 
 MOORE-Louise Lane. Born May 29, 1898. Died peacefully September 9, 1998. She was married to the late Harry A. Moore. She was a past President of Phi Mu Fraternity, active in AAUW and Marble Church. Memorial service at Marble Church, 29th St and 5th Ave, New York City, November 7, 1998, 12:3
 BILLFALDT-Patricia J., 75, died on October 27, 1998. Survived by her sisters, Elizabeth Ann Billfaldt of Houston, Texas, and Jeanne V. Billfaldt of Asheville, North Carolina. Previously Assistant Curator, Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, Texas, and feature writer for The Houston Post on the 
 FREY-Phyllis Ruth (nee Nayer). 1928-1998. Beloved daughter of the late Abe and Lena. Succumbed to lung cancer after a valiant struggle. Our exceptional and beloved cousin, confidante, dearest friend and most charismatic personage. Her death leaves a profound rent in the lives of the entire 
 McFADDEN-Ruth Neilson. Wife of the late Louis E. Died peacefully at home on November 5th at age 81. Formerly of NYC, Peekskill, NY and New Canaan, CT. Survived by her six children, Josephine N., Barbara M. Sirna of NYC, Katherine M. Whitmore of Belfast, ME, Neil A. of Oak Park, IL, Lucy-Ann
 MELDOLA-Rosemarie M.D. The Faculty and Staff of New York University School of Medicine deeply mourn the loss of Rosemarie Ingeborg Meldola, MD, age 89. A dedicated pediatrician and longtime faculty member of the Department of Pediatrics. A native of Germany, Dr. Meldola received her medical
 RACHLIN-Martha. November 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jerry Rachlin. Adored mother of the late Barton and Susan. Best friend and confidant of daughter Phyllis. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Mindy; Douglas and Harriet; Stacey and Seth; and Jimmy. Great grandmother of Bradley, Ni
 BAGLEY-Faye. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board, and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Faye Bagley. Sincere condolences are extended to her daughter, Nancy Vardakis, distinguished member of the Board of Directors, and to the Vardakis and Ts
 BARR-Madeleine (nee Schoen- feld). Age 72, of Boynton Beach, Florida. Formerly of Hartsdale, New York. Passed away November 6, 1998. She is survived by her loving husband Aubrey and sister Naomi Freedenfeld.       
 GOLDFINCH-Elizabeth Canales. On November 2, 1998. Beloved mother Anne Goldfinch Locascio. Cherished grandmother of Lisa & Julia Locascio. She was a noted performer with the Robert Shaw Chorale whose career spanned both Europe and the United States. Mrs. Goldfinch was a distinguished member 
 GOULD-Anne B. Beloved sister of Shirley Kalusin and Lucille Allen and Auntie Anne to all of her nieces and nephews. World War II Navy Lieutenant, astute businesswoman, respected by all. Graveside service on November 8 at Riverside Cemetery, Lodi, N.J.       
 LEWIS-Bobo. On Friday morning, October 30th. A long revered actress equally at home on stage and in front of the camera. Ms. Lewis enjoyed a long career that encompassed an astonishing variety of work. Among her Broadway credits are 42nd Street, Musical Comedy Murders of 1940, Twigs, and Wo
 MALLORY-Margaret P. On November 3, 1998, age 87 in Santa Barbara, CA. Beloved sister of Clifford D. Mallory and Barbara Hathaway. Her love and knowledge of art and music touched many lives as did her generosity and energy which she devoted to many worthwhile causes. A celebration of her lif
 McFADDEN-Ruth Neilson. Wife of the late Louis E. Died peacefully at home on November 5th at age 81. Formerly of NYC, Peekskill, NY and New Canaan, CT. Survived by her six children, Josephine N., Barbara M. Sirna of NYC, Katherine M. Whitmore of Belfast, ME, Neil A. of Oak Park, IL, Lucy-Ann
 MILLER-Jeanne White. Resident of West Palm Beach, FL, wife of the late Andrew O. Miller, died on October 30, 1998, at the age of 77. She was born in Boston, MA, daughter of the late Loring and Arlene White, of Cohasset and Palm Beach. She was a wonderful mother, a loving wife, a beautiful p
 NASH-Lili. Died peacefully October 17 in Naperville, IL. She was the loving mother of a son, Thomas Nash, and daughter-in-law, Madeleine Nash, of Warrenville, IL, and wife of the late Edward Nash. A longtime resident of New York City, she was an art historian specializing in old masters. Sh
 NEWMAN-Anne B. Age 63, died peacefully at her home in Scarsdale, NY, on November 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Dr. Herbert A. Newman. Cherished mother of David, Peter and Tracy. Devoted grandmother of Michael. Sister of Ellen Davis. Anne was a caring, compassionate, special person whose motto wa
 SHIPLEY-Madeleine S. Beloved wife, mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, friend, Realtor nonpareil and fifth-generation New Yorker died November 4, 1998 at her home, of complications from emphysema. She will be sorely missed by all those whose lives she touched so profoundly. A memorial servi
 SHORE-Mimi. Of New York City, died October 24, 1998. She is survived by a sister, niece, two great nieces and many friends. Contributions may be made to Hospice.       
 Vassar Miller, whose lifelong struggle with cerebral palsy made the simplest tasks arduous yet who wrote 10 volumes of searing and highly regarded poetry, died on Oct. 31 at Houston Methodist Hospital. She was 74. Ms. Miller's work often explored religious themes, although she also 
 BIZZARRI-Louise T. Age 92, on November 6, 1998. Lifetime City resident and 33 year employee of Fox Wells & Co. Survived by her nephew Walter Bender and two nieces, Winona Johnson and Marilyn Nelson. For information, contact Robertaccio Funeral Home, Inc., Patchogue, NY.       
 FAY-Marie McCafferty. A longtime Bedford resident died at her home in Bedford on Saturday, November 7, 1998. She was 68. Mrs. Fay was born September 6, 1930, to William J. McCafferty and Ann Curry McCafferty at Fort Slocum in New Rochelle, NY. She graduated from the Ursuline School and the 
 MARKS-Ruth. My dedicated and devoted colleague of many years. She will be much missed by me and my family and friends, all of whom knew that the way to get something done was to call Ruth. My deepest sympathy to Erika, John, Al and the little girls. Mary Jean Tully       
 McFADDEN-Ruth Neilson. Wife of the late Louis E. Died peacefully at home on November 5th at age 81. Formerly of NYC, Peekskill, NY and New Canaan, CT. Survived by her six children, Josephine N., Barbara M. Sirna of NYC, Katherine M. Whitmore of Belfast, ME, Neil A. of Oak Park, IL, Lucy-Ann
 NEWMAN-Anne. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst Rabbi Laurie Katz Braun, Asst Rabbi       
 ORENS-Roselle Roemer. Of New York City, formerly of Paterson, NJ. Widow of Mitchell A. Orens. She is survived by two daughters, Sheila Rowe of New York City, and Lydia Bos of Norwich, VT; grandchildren Jacqueline Witmondt, Douglas Rowe, Erica Callahan and William Bos; sisters Belle Harrison
 FREY-Phyllis R. To have a good friend is to know we've being truly blessed. You will walk by my side always. Forever with love, Diane. FREY-Phyllis R. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jerusalem Foundation, Inc., are deeply saddened by the passing of Phyllis Frey, a great love
 GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Anita Kurman Gulkin, President and CEO of Greenwich House. Highly r
 JONES-Edward. The staff, Board and Advocacy Council of Citizens' Committee for Children of New York are deeply saddened over the death of Edward Jones, husband of our longtime board member Anne Jones. We send our sympathy and condolences to Anne and her family.       
 KALAJIAN-Roxy. At certain times, life has a way of confounding the wise among us in yielding a startling alchemy among warring elements in our nature. Such a thing happened some 30 years ago while anguished, despairing Moms and Dads dropped off their young at our doorstop at Daytop Village.
 LEWISON-Thomas, on November 7th, 1998, at age 56, in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Nancy. Devoted father of Rebecca, Deborah and her husband, Steve. Loving brother of Richard and brother-in-law, Stuart Teicher. Funeral services will be held in Florida on Tuesday, November 10th. A memor
 MARKS - Ruth. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with sorrow the passing of our long time member Ruth Marks. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her husband Alfred, their children Erica and John, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 VITKIN-Jeannette. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow thE passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark A. Hershey, President       
 WEISS-Leah A. 90, of Southbury, CT, formerly of NY, died Monday, November 9, 1998. She was the devoted wife of Burt and a loving mother to Edward.       
 Rumer Godden, the prolific British author of ''Black Narcissus'' and  ''The River,'' and a writer of children's books that are enjoyed throughout the world, died on Sunday at her home in Dumfriesshire, Scotland. She was 90. In a career that began in 1935, Ms. Godden published some 7
 Florence L. Walsh, a fast-rising executive at Lucent Technologies Inc. who helped engineer that company's split from the AT&T Corporation in 1996, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey. Ms. Walsh, who lived in Bernardsville, N.J., was 37. The cause was toxic
 BARISH-Samuel N. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Cantor Annie Bornstein-Howard Mark A. Hershey, President       
 HOLTZ-Mildred. On November 10, 1998, at age 81. Loving mother to Helene Holtz and Gary Wood. Services are at Temple Bethel in Great Neck on Old Mill Road. Services 1 P.M., Thursday. HOLTZ-Mildred. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time
 KAY-Celia H. Died on November 8th, at age 91 in Cleveland, Ohio. Formerly of Syracuse and Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late Robert C. Kay; survived by her devoted children Richard and Lynn Kay and Jayne and Richard Jones; five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. She was adored by her
 McCORMACK-Catherine G. Devoted mother of Jane, Hugh and George III, loving mother-in-law of Corinne McCormack and William Lauck, delighted grandmother of Adam, loving aunt of Cathy Witt & Martha Brown, died peacefully on Nov. 8th, 1998. Born in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, she attended the Em
 NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. On November 9, 1998. Member of the Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York. Former Director of Saint Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, 19671991. Primary Care Nurse, Deptartment of Community Medicine, of Saint Vincent's Hospital 19911998. Belove
 SCHARFF - Constance Kramer. Wife of the late Harry. Mother of Matthew and Carol. Grandmother of Karen Scharff (James Coe), Thomas Zucker-Scharff (Sue) and David Scharff. Great grandmother of Aram, Ilana, Jonah and Rachel. Sister of Jack Kramer and the late Sybil Yedlin Ginsberg, Dorothy Gre
 STORCH-Dr. Marcia. The American Menopause Foundation Inc is deeply saddened by the passing of their first chairperson of the Medical/Scientific Advisory Board. She will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family. Marie Lugano, Founder & President Lonnie Wollin, Secret
 YOUMAN-Elizabeth. Died November 7, age 85. She is survived by seven children, 25 grandchildren and 18 great grandchildren.       
 ABRUTYN-Eva. On November 9, 1998, Eva (nee Honigberg) of Whitemarsh, PA., wife of the late Samuel. Mother of Dr. Elias Abrutyn and the late Michael Abrutyn. Sister of Irving Honigberg. Grandmother of Stephanie, David, Daniel, Adam and Alex. Relatives and friends are invited to Graveside Ser
 BLITZER - Jeanette. Gently passed away on November 10, 1998 at home. Loving wife of Myron. Mother of Ellen, Diana and the late Karen. Grandmother of Carolyn, Daniel, Peter and Lauren. Great-grandmother of Ellen, Steven, Michael, Christine and Elizabeth. She lived a simple life of giving to 
 FELD-Doris Rabinor. Of Lauderhill, Florida, formerly of New City, New York died on Tuesday, November 10, 1998 after a long illness. She was 79 years old. She was born in Bronx, New York to Aaron and Esther (Enteen) Rabinowitz and was a graduate of Brooklyn College. Beloved wife of Joseph Fe
 FREEMAN-Sophie Gerla. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend who, with her late husband, Charles S., was a YU Guardian, Yeshiva College Fellow, and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. We extend our heartfelt condolences to grandchildren, great-
 GENSER-Ruth. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extends its most heartfelt sympathy to Barbara Zinn Moore on the loss of her beloved mother, Ruth Genser. She was an inspiration to all of us.       
 GROBSTEIN-Juliett. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Juliett Grobstein and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. On November 9, 1998. Member of the Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York. Former Director of Saint Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, 19671991. Primary Care Nurse, Deptartment of Community Medicine, of Saint Vincent's Hospital 19911998. Belove
 PICCOLINO-Alberta. Turtle Bay Music School notes with sadness the death of our friend and staff member. Alberta died on November 8, 1998 at her mother's home after a long bout with cancer. The school extends its heartfelt condolences to her mother Joy Piccolino, and to her entire family.   
 SUCHERMAN-Bertha. The Sucherman family deeply mourns the passing of Bertha Sucherman, who was a light and an inspiration to her sons, Lowell & Stuart; her grandchildren, Greg, Matthew, Joanna and David; and her daughters-in-law, Janice, Betsy and Tracy. Her indomitable will, directness, hon
 VITKIN-Jeannette. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Jeannette Vitkin and extend to her bereaved husband Robert and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, S
 Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59, lived in Springfield, N.J., and also had an apartment in Chelse
 Bobo Lewis, a screen and stage actress who performed with the Circle Repertory Company for 25 years, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her cousin, Susan Lera of Miami. In a 1987 interview in The Ne
 BARREL-Sadye. Affectionately known as Syd. On November 11, 1998 at age 98. Mrs. Barrel was a very astute business women. Among her favorite philanthropies were Bascon Palmer Eye Institute, Sloan-Kettering where she endowed the Nutrition Program, The American Technion Society, Good Samaritan
 CUDDY-Loretta (nee Cooper) of Garden City, NY. Gently passed away on November 11, 1998. Known also as Laura, she was the cherished wife of the late John F. Cuddy, devoted mother of John, Brian and Patricia, and loving grandmother of Victoria, Daniel, Catherine, Adrienne and Lauren. Reposing
 GROBSTEIN-Juliett, age 93, on November 11th, 1998 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Adored mother of Barbara and Eric Chazen and Susan and Victor Shedlin. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and David Levine, Gary and Debbi Shedlin, Karen and Tyler Zachem, Lauren Shedlin, Ja
 PAIGE-Muriel M. Resident of New Hyde Park, NY. Retired school teacher and alumna of the College of New Rochelle. Active member of AAUW Chapter. Ms. Paige donated her body to Stoney Brook University Medical School. There will be a Memorial Mass at St. Aidan's R.C. Church, 505 Willis Avenue, 
 WALSH-Florence L. (Meg). It is wih great sadness that the Board, Staff and friends of Jersey Battered Women's Services, Morris Plains, NJ, mourn the sudden and untimely passing of Meg Walsh, our Director, and her infant son, Dixon. Early on, Meg showed a keen interest in and commitment to h
 WEBER-Frieda. Beloved wife of the late Harry Weber, died in Brooklyn at age 83 on November 10th, 1998, three months after suffering a major stroke. Loving mother of Cynthia, Nathan, Robert and Sheila; loving mother-in-law of Wendy, Lynn and Jeff; adored grandmother of Lisa, Dana, Rebecca, V
 Svetlana Beriosova, an incandescent leading ballerina with the Royal Ballet of England for two decades, died on Tuesday at the hospice at St. Charles's Hospital in London. She was 66 and lived in London. The cause was cancer, said Patricia Daly of the British journal Dancing Times. 
 Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death became nationally known o
 BLUESTONE-Sally. November 13, 1998 after a very brief illness. One month before her 96th birthday. Beloved sister, aunt, great-aunt and great great-aunt. Devoted daughter of the late Fannie and Joseph Bluestone. Generous, caring, loyal and gifted lady. Will be remembered for a lifetime of h
 CAHN-Aimee. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with sorrow the death of our long time member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all of her family. A memorial service will take place in our Morse Chapel on Monday, November 16 at noon. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen Saxl, President     
 GREENE-Sylvia. Beloved mother of Madeline & David and the late Lynne. Devoted wife of the late Casey. Adoring Grandma Sylvia to Jackie and Casey Max. Loving sister, aunt and friend. Services on Sunday, November 15, 9:30 AM at Riverside Funeral Chapel, Mount Vernon, New York. Interment at Mo
 GRONICH-Silvia Lesser, age 88, on November 13th. Adored wife of the late Maxwell A. Gronich. Cherished mother and loving friend to Susan and Theodore. She was a classy lady. Services Sunday, 11:30 am, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam       
 ROMANOWITZ-Eva, 84. Beloved mother of Harry and wife, Sheila. Grandmother of Avra and Daniel, and devoted sister of Joseph Tenenbaum. Born in Tomaszow, Poland, she was a Holocaust survivor, a dear and cherished aunt, trusted friend and counsel to many. Services Sunday, November 15 at 10 A.M
 SCHERER-Esther. On November 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Judith S. Herz and Matthew. Adoring grandmother of Rachel, Nathaniel and Philip. Dedicated and longtime member of Hadassah. Services Sunday 11 a.m. at ''The Riverside'' 76th and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of
 SHAFRAN-Shirley. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Adrienne Shafran-Hirschfeld and Myra Landau. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Died peacefully at her home Nov. 12. Funeral Sunday, Nov. 15, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn at 11:30 AM.       
 Barbara Thornton, a singer and musicologist who, with Benjamin Bagby, founded and directed Sequentia, the medieval music ensemble, died last Sunday at the Caritas hospice in Cologne, Germany. She was 48 and lived in Cologne. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, Jon Aaron,
 Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in the Santa Ynez Valley of California from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92. Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, 
 Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death become nationally known o
 Dr. Marcia L. Storch, an innovator in women's health care, died Nov. 9 at her home in Tenants Harbor, Me. She was 65. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. She was best known as a private practitioner who was widely influential in changing the rules of treatment for
 BLUESTONE-Sally. November 13, 1998 after a very brief illness. One month before her 96th birthday. Beloved sister, aunt, great-aunt and great great-aunt. Devoted daughter of the late Fannie and Joseph Bluestone. Generous, caring, loyal and gifted lady. Will be remembered for a lifetime of h
 CAHN-Aimee. Beloved wife of the late Aron Cahn, loving sister of the late Benola Schloss and the late Ruth Cornell. Good friend & loving aunt of Richard J. Schloss (Julia), dear great aunt of Reina Warren and Duncan Schloss. She had a great love for life that inspired many. She will be grea
 GALLAGHER-Margaret T. Died in her sleep early Sunday morning, November 8. The cause of death was pneumonia. Margaret, known as Nancy throughout her life, was 82 years old. She is survived by her loving daughter, Nancy M. Gallagher, a financial consultant, and her son, Thomas A. Gallagher, a
 GREENE-Sylvia. Beloved mother of Madeline & David and the late Lynne. Devoted wife of the late Casey. Adoring Grandma Sylvia to Jackie and Casey Max. Loving sister, aunt and friend. Services on Sunday, November 15, 9:30 AM at Riverside Funeral Chapel, Mount Vernon, New York. Interment at Mo
 GRONICH-Silvia Lesser. Age 88, on November 13, 1998. Adored wife of the late Maxwell A. Gronich. Cherished mother and loving friend to Susan and Theodore. She was a classy lady.       
 GULKIN-Anita Kurman. Urban Pathways notes with sorrow the death of Anita Kurman Gulkin, a founder and long time board member. Her energetic support and committment to quality services are part of her legacy. Our condolences to her family. Gerald W. Blume, President Joan E. Ohlson, Exec Dire
 HECHT-Beatrice. Wife of recently deceased James, died Wednesday afternoon while residing at her son's home in Greenwich, Ct. Born, raised, and until recently, living on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. She is survived by her 2 sons, David Hecht and his wife Marie of Greenwich, Ct, Arnold H
 LENCHNER-Linda Joy, of New City, NY, died of ovarian cancer on Sunday, November 1, 1998. She was born on June 6, 1943, the daughter of Morris and Bertha Lipkin. She is survived by her husband Harvey, sons Daniel and Michael, mother Bertha Lipkin of Miami Beach, FL, twin sister Barbara Dresn
 PARKINSON-Anne. Died in peace with dignity and serenity on November 6. Loving mother of Tony, Nina, Michael, and Peter. Grandmother of Stephanie, Dana and Troup and great-grandmother of Nick. Until we meet again. Donations in her memory can be made to the Central Park Conservancy.       
 STORCH-Marcia M.D. Died November 9, 1998 of ovarian cancer, in Tenants Harbor, Maine, cared for by her beloved partner Jeanne Hewitt. For a generation of women, via her practice and her public, TV and radio appearances, she destroyed myth and introduced dignity and openness into the GYN tre
 WHEATE-Elsa Aller. Of Cortlandt Manor, NY, died November 13, 1998. She was born on May 8, 1920, to Joseph Aller and Juliette Goldberg Aller. Mother of John J. Kail and Alexandra Kail Rundle. Sister of Therese Aller Cormack. Also survived by two granddaughters. Visiting Tuesday at Edward F. 
 SILBERFARB-Melinda. She was a devoted wife, mother and friend. It's her first anniversary in Heaven. She flies with the angels. You will be forever in our hearts. Love, The Uribe Family       
 Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in California's Santa Ynez Valley from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92. Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a
 Mary Main, a novelist who also wrote a highly regarded biography of Eva Peron, died on Nov. 8 at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 95. Ms. Main was born to British parents in Buenos Aires, where her father was general manager of the Buenos Aires Western Railway. She grew
 Paula Kissinger, a refugee from Nazi Germany who held the Bible at the White House in 1973 when her first-born son, Henry, was sworn in as Secretary of State, the highest Cabinet post in her adopted land, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday in Manhattan. She was 97.      
 BECKER-Selma. Of Hollywood, FL. Passed away on November 14. Beloved wife for 69 years of the late Nathaniel. Loving mother to Richard Becker, Harriet and Ira Teper, and Joel and Dorothy Becker. Dear sister to Pearl Kohnop. Cherished grandmother to Melissa Teper, Laurie Becker and Paul Berke
 BERMAN-Edith. November 10, 1998. A woman of surpassing qualities: extraordinarily devoted wife, exemplary mother, patient, adoring grandmother, loyal, unwavering, and generous in her love for those dear to her. In her gracious, lovely, and endlessly unassuming way, she occupied a place in o
 KISSINGER-Paula Stern. Age 97, on November 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kissinger. She is survived by her two sons Henry A. and Walter B., six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Funeral services at 11 AM on Monday, November 16, at Hirsch & Sons, 1225 Jerome Ave. at 167th
 THOMAS-Carole. Nassau Suffolk Home Care and Aides, Inc., expresses our condolences to the entire Thomas family on the loss of our President, Carole Thomas, who showed great courage in her battle against breast cancer. She will be sorely missed. Donations in her memory may be made to Adelphi
 ZANELLI-Sue. Loving mother of Alice. May her soul be bound in eternal peace. Services private. Carl Grossman and Family       
 Valerie Hobson, a British movie star who stayed loyal to her husband, John Profumo, after he figured in a sex scandal as a member of Britain's Conservative Government in 1963, died on Friday at a London hospital. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, the British news agency Pres
 Jean Dalrymple, who abandoned a nascent acting career to become a successful publicist, then an even more successful manager of concert artists and finally a dynamic producer of musicals and plays for City Center and other stages, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home, across the street from
 BUCKHOLD-Ellen. Beloved wife, mother, and grandmother, on Sunday morning, Nov. 15, 1998. She is survived by her husband, Werner, her daughters, Leslie SchweitzerMiller, and Emily Andelman, and her grandchildren, Marc and Gillian Schweitzer, and Ethan and Matthew Andelman. In addition to her
 DALRYMPLE-Jean. The Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing is deeply saddened by the death of their cherished friend and beloved, long-time officer. After an association of 58 years, her words of knowledge and wisdom sadly are no longer heard. Among her other contributions, she was
 del Campo-Cristina Erhart, representative and head of Christie's Argentina, passed away on October 19, 1998 in Buenos Aires after a short but valiant struggle with lung cancer. In addition to her position at Christie's, Ms. del Campo was very active as a member of the Multiple Sclerosis Soc
 FIELD-Irene Ph.D. November 14th, in Rome, Italy, where she lived for many decades and had a very distinguished career with theFood and Agricultural Organization. She will be deeply missed by her relatives and her many friends and colleagues throughout the world. Robert Newman       
 FORD-Kathleen Carey. 58. Died Friday, November 13th. Graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, 1962. Received a Master of Divinity, 1984, and a Master of Sacred Theology, 1991, from Union Theological Seminary. Member of the faculty and clinical supervisor at the Blanton-Peale Graduate Institute, and
 KISSINGER-Paula Stern. Age 97, on November 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kissinger. She is survived by her two sons Henry A. and Walter B., six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. The family requests in lieu of flowers that donations be sent in her memory to the ColumbiaPr
 KOREIN-Sarah. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and students of the Rabbinical College of America mourn the passing of our dear friend and generous supporter, Sarah Korein. She was a shining example of hard work and perseverance, combined with graciousness and generosity, in a society thirsty
 KOSTIKA-Miriam. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed member, Sharon Goldring and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 LEVIN-Shirley Topal. On November 14, five days before her 101st birthday. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Jane and Renee and sons-in-law, Gil and Wheeler. Adoring grandmother of James, Martha, Polly and Daisy and her grandson-in-law, Cliff. Dear great-grandmother of Will 
 NOVA-Mercedes. The City University of New York community mourn the tragic death of our colleague, Mercedes Nova. All who knew her in the years she worked in the Central Office Personnel and Budget Offices admired her cheerful spirit, her dedication to her work and her loving care of her two
 RODIN-Anne S. On November 15,1998. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Carl, loving mother of Richard, Judith Lilly, and Susan Rodin Rosenfeld. Dear mother-inlaw of Ellen Rodin, John Lilly and Jeffrey Rosenfeld. Adored grandmother of Andy (Lydia), Rachel (Josh), John (Rachel), Brian and Jo
 SACCARD-Hanka. Beloved wife of the late Alexander Saccard, loving mother of Yvonne, devoted grandmother of Louann and Archie, cherished sister of Genia Palatin. She will be greatly missed by them, her friends, and all her nephews and nieces. Funeral services at noon on Thursday, Nov 19, at 
 SPERBER-Sue. Our devoted sister, aunt and great-aunt. When beset by trouble and sorrow, Sue put on the armor of faith and fortitude. She found the strength to challenge her illness with quiet courage and unshaken will. She will always remain a part of us. The Paul Family       
 THOMAS-Carole. Nassau Suffolk Home Care and Aides, Inc., expresses our condolences to the entire Thomas family on the loss of our President, Carole Thomas, who showed great courage in her battle against breast cancer. She will be sorely missed. Donations in her memory may be made to Adelphi
 URSTADT-Claire Jordan, 96, a long-time resident of Mamaroneck, New York, on November 14th, 1998. Widow of the late Charles G. Urstadt and beloved mother of Charles J. Urstadt of Bronxville, NY and J. Jeffrey Urstadt of New Canaan, CT. She was the grandmother of Charles D. Urstadt, Catherine
 ZANELLI-Sue. Beloved mother of Dorothy, Patricia and Alice. Devoted grandmother of Lisa and Karla. Adored great grandmother of Raye/Lani. May she rest in peace.       
 Marion Donovan, a onetime Connecticut housewife who had to change one damp diaper too many, died on Nov. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and had helped spearhead an industrial and domestic revolution by inventing the forerunner of the disposable diaper.      
 BARREL-Sadye (Syd). The officers, board, and staff of the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of the American Indian express their condolences on the passing of Syd Barrel in Palm Beach, Fla. She was the beloved mother of Iris Barrel Apfel, a keen supporter of the National Museum of the
 BERNSTEIN-Clara (nee Handelman). Died on November 16th, age 83, in Goshen, NY. Formerly of Eastchester, NY. She is survived by her loving family: her husband of 57 years, Dr. Alfred J. Bernstein, daughter Anne of Berkeley, CA., son Andrew of Wayne, NJ, brother Herbert Handelman of Boca Rato
 BUCKOLD-Ellen. Beloved wife, mother, and grandmother, on Sunday morning, Nov. 15, 1998. She is survived by her husband, Werner, her daughters, Leslie SchweitzerMiller, and Emily Andelman, and her grandchildren, Marc and Gillian Schweitzer, and Ethan and Matthew Andelman. In addition to her 
 DALRYMPLE-Jean, was the ''Mother'' of City Center and we will miss her. It's been a great comfort to think of her on opening nights -across the street from the theater-looking down from her apartment at the arriving crowds, and of the audiences who have thrilled to the art on our stage sinc
 DAVID-Anne, nee Menachem, of Morristown. Predeceased by her husband Edward A. Devoted mother of Sherry Ayche, Arthur David, and Melvyn David. Dear sister of Morris Menachem. Loving grandmother of Anne Sherman, Lisa and Michael Rosefarb, Edward David and Roxanne Davis. Loving great-grandmoth
 GRANT-Stephanie. An extraordinary woman. Beloved and devoted mother, daughter, grandmother, godmother, sister and aunt; loyal and cherished friend and employee. Her spirit will guide us and her memory will be a blessing. Funeral services Friday November 20th at 12 noon at the Convent Avenue
 KADLAC-Sarah Jane, 88, of New York City. Daughter of Clark A. and Agnes Marie (Petersen) Conley; died October 26, 1998. She is survived by her nieces Linda (Conley) Kaye, Cheryl (Conley) Rohde and nephews Christopher E. and Peter S. Conley. Services have been held with burial at Mt. Hope Ce
 KISSINGER-Paula. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Paula Kissinger, a very special lady and cherished member of The Hebrew Home's extended family. Mrs. Kissinger's warmth, kindness and vivacious s
 KLEIN-Hanna. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Laurie Katz Braun, Asst. Rabbi       
 RIZZO-Marie Assunta (nee Genua) on November 16, 1998. Beloved wife of Lee for 61 beautiful years. Mother of devoted children Gerald Lee and Anna S. Rizzo, Carolyn and John Morano, Mary Lou and Luis Artime and grandmother of adoring grandchildren Joan Marie, Michele and Lenny, Laura, Karen, 
 WROBEL-Frances. On Nov. 14th. Devoted mother of Linda and Marilyn. Cherished grandmother and loving great-grandmother and a classy lady. She will be missed forever. Services were held.       
 Esther Rolle, a pioneering African-American actress who gained national recognition in the 1970's for her role as Florida Evans on two television shows, first ''Maude'' and then ''Good Times,'' died at a hospital here on Tuesday. She was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. Larry Calhoun, h
 BUTLER-Marion. The Women's Committee and Trustees of Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club mourn the passing of our long-time friend and women extraordinaire, Marion Butler. She will be sorely missed.       
 COHEN-Marion Wolff, in her 99th year, on November 18, 1998, of Sarasota, Florida, formerly of Cedarhurst, NY. Beloved wife of the late Jerome J. Cohen, loving mother of Florence and Aaron Steiger, Lois and Charles Imershein and Ron and Joan Cohen, adored grandmother and great-grandmother of
 FLINN-Marie E. On November 17, 1998. She was born in Pittsburgh, PA, and attended Holy Rosary High School and Robert Morris Business School. She worked as an executive secretary for Crucible Steel Company and its successor LTV. She retired from there in 1968 and moved to New York where she 
 KOHN-Leonore. Beloved wife of Julius Kohn for 66 years. Loving mother of Barbara and Peter Brumberg and Deb and Dave Kohn, loving grandmother of six and devoted great-grandmother of six. Devoted sister-in-law. Services Thurs., November 19, 10AM at Temple Shalom in New Milford, CT. Graveside
 KORN-Mrs. Richard Kaye. We mourn the loss of Peggy Korn, our Honorary Board Member and Past Board President. Peggy was one of a kind: smart, involved, cultured, and opinionated. She also cared a great deal about those in need, as exemplified by her long involvement with our social service o
 McGRATH-Anne Rogan. 63. Of Hampton Bays, NY formerly of Chappaqua, NY at home after a long battle with cancer. Devoted wife of Dr. Terence J. McGrath and loving mother of Dr. Sarah McGee of Sturbridge, MA, Kathleen Dunn of New Rochelle, NY, Mary Donovan of Tullahoma, TN, and Maureen Svoboda
 ROTHSCHILD-Rhona S. Passed away on November 17, 1998, at the untimely age of 52. She leaves behind her husband, Jay, son, Jared, daughter, Jordana Sontag, son-inlaw Richard Sontag, and grandson, Jacob Sontag. She will be always be remembered as a devoted and dedicated mother and grandmother
 Elisabeth A. Owens, who helped to shape the field of international tax law and in 1972 became the first woman ever granted tenure at Harvard Law School, died on Sunday at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Falmouth. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease,
 BERGESCH-Mollie Kelly. In Beverly HIlls, California, on November 16. Beloved wife of the late Charles Frederick Bergesch, II and mother of Leslie Manning (Mrs. Richard T. Perkin), Allison Kelly and Charles Frederick, III. Also survived by her three devoted grand-daughters and two sisters, A
 BUCKOLD-Ellen. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ellen Buckold, loving wife and devoted mother and grandmother. We extend our sympathies to her husband, Werner, a long-time supporter and honorary chair of the Men's Neckwear & Accessories Div
 BUTLER-Marion. The Board and staff of Lighthouse International mourn the loss of Marion Donovan Bulter, a valued advisor for many years whose commitment and dedication was highly regarded. Our deepest condolences to her family. Barbara Silverstone, President Timothy Knipe, Chairman, Board o
 CAMERON-Hope.(Bulkeley) Widow of Billy Friedberg, veteran actor of stage, film and TV, died November 18 at the age of 78, after a heroic fight against cancer. She played with Lee. J. Cobb, in ''Death of a Salesman'', on Broadaway for it's 96 week run, and continued acting up to this year in
 COHEN-Marion Wolff, in her 99th year, on November 18, 1998, of Sarasota, Florida, formerly of Cedarhurst, NY. Beloved wife of the late Jerome J. Cohen, loving mother of Florence and Aaron Steiger, Lois and Charles Imershein and Ron and Joan Cohen, adored grandmother and great-grandmother of
 EDELSTEIN-Tiby. We mourn the loss of Tiby, longtime employee and dear friend. Her many years with us proved her to be competent, dedicated and a wonderful, loyal worker. The handpicked greeting cards in her large, redinked handwriting will no longer arrive-we shall miss them. Along with the
 FINDER-Mildred. On November 19, 1998. Beloved wife of Milton; loving mother of Vickie (Weinreb) and Edmund; dear mother-in-law of Alan and Elizabeth; cherished grandmother of Jason, Lindsay, Jacqueline, Adam, Matthew & Andrew. Graveside services Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Queens, today. She will
 HIRSCH-Myra Seiden. On November 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Barry. Loving mother of Terry, Neil and Nancy. Devoted sister of Carolyn Miller. Dear daughter-in-law of Emanuel Hirsch, sister-in-law of Eugene and Dee Hirsch.Aunt of Barbara and Joel Behar, Jane and Andrew Bursky. Services Friday, 
 KORN-Mrs. Richard Kaye. The board and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City are deeply saddened by the death of our honorary board member, Mrs. Richard Kaye Korn. Peggy joined the PPNYC board in the late 1940s and served with distinction on nearly every agency committee. She inspired
 MARTIN-Betty Ivey. Born Bellevue, Washington, died November 17, 1998 in New York. Much loved aunt of Susan Procter Dusenberry, great aunt of Benjamin Procter. Lover of life, lover of children everywhere. Miss Martin studied voice at the the Juilliard School of Music. She had a long distingu
 McGRATH-Anne Rogan. 63. Of Hampton Bays, NY formerly of Chappaqua, NY at home after a long battle with cancer. Devoted wife of Dr. Terence J. McGrath and loving mother of Dr. Sarah McGee of Sturbridge, MA, Kathleen Dunn of New Rochelle, NY, Mary Donovan of Tullahoma, TN, and Maureen Svoboda
 SHAW-Carol Henning. Died at home on November 19, 1998 after a long battle with ovarian cancer. Carol was employed by the Style Department of The New York Times. Burial service will be private. There will be a memorial service at St. Luke's in the Fields on December 5 at 2:30 PM. Friends are
 WAGNER-Victoria. The Board of Trustees and the Ethical Culture Fieldston School note with sadness the death of Victoria Wagner, devoted and vital member of our school community for almost 40 years. Teacher, principal of the Ethical Culture School, and director of the Ethical Culture Fieldst
 DEL CAMPO-Cristina Erhart. Representative and head of Christie's Argentina, passed away October 19, 1998, in Buenos Aires after a short but valiant struggle with lung cancer. In addition to her position at Christie's, Ms. del Campo was very active as a member of the Multiple Sclerosis Socie
 Carol Henning Shaw, an early organizer of Mothers' Voices, a national group working for AIDS prevention and cure, died Thursday at her home on the West Side of Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. Mrs. Shaw was moved by the fate of her stepda
 BUTLER-Marion Donovan. The Directors and Honary Directors of the National Horse Show are deeply saddened by the loss of Marion Donovan Butler, wife of deceased long time Director of the National, John Butler. Our deepest condolences to her family.       
 FURST-Janet (Botwinik) of Manhattan. Devoted mother of Anne Ramsden of Wakefield, MA. Loving sister of David Botwinik of Port Washington, L.I. Dear grandmother of Matthew and Benjamin. Donations in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Assn.       
 KORN - Peggy. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of Peggy Korn, the beloved wife of our late revered member of the Board, Richard K. Korn. A woman of great strength, she lived her life with extraordinary dignity. Her concerns for the betterment of humanity were
 ROSENSTOCK-Edith B. On November 19, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jesse M. Loving mother of Robert, mother-in-law of Gerda, adoring grandmother of Elisabeth, Thomas and Nicholas. She will be deeply missed. Service private.       
 EVE-Dr. H. Janet. Henrietta Janet Eve, a practicing physician in New York for over 40 years, died at her home in Sarasota, Florida on November 16, 1998. Dr. Eve was born June 6, 1923 in Hot Springs, Arkansas. She was a graduate of Fisk University and the Howard University College of Medicin
 GLECKMAN-Lorraine Rothbard. Poughkeepsie. Adored by Ernest, children. Literary scholar. Her beautee wol sustene.       
 KANELLIS - Thelma. Beloved daughter of Mildred Epstein and the late Dr. Herman Epstein. Wife of Thomas Kanellis. Sister of the late Sandy Nachamie. Mother of Linda, Janice and Gary and grandmother of Jacqueline. Dedicated family member and nurse. She fought a valiant battle with breast canc
 KASTEN-Lillian. On November 19, 1998. Devoted daughter of the late Bessie. Loving sister of the late Sylvia. Cherished cousin to many. She will be missed by all. Services Sunday 10:15am at ''Gutterman's Inc.'', Rockville Center.       
 MARTIN-Betty Ivey. Born Bellevue, Washington, died November 17, 1998 in New York. Much loved aunt of Susan Procter Dusenberry, great aunt of Benjamin Procter. Lover of life, lover of children everywhere. Miss Martin studied voice at the the Juilliard School of Music. She had a long distingu
 NEWARK-Eleanore Y. The officers, Board of Governors and members of the Archaeology Institute of America/Long Island Society, mourn the passing of our former President, Eleanor Y. Newark, on November 16, 1998, in Jacksonville, FL, and extend their heartfelt condolences to her children John a
 SCOTT-Katherine Anne ''Kit''. 28 years old of Livingston, NJ, died Wednesday, November 18, 1998 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Ms. Scott was a Senior New Markets Analyst for Prudential Securities in New York. She was Committee Co-Chair of the Junior League of New York; member of Pi Beta Phi So
 Edwige Feuillere, a much-loved French actress whose 60-year career took her from sensual screen beauty to grande dame of the Paris theater, died here on Nov. 13. She was 91 and lived in Paris. She was buried on Wednesday in a family tomb at Beaugency, near Orleans. Ms. Feuillere fir
 Gina Blau, an American dancer who was an early exponent of Indian classical dance in the United States, died on Oct. 23 at Forest View Nursing Home in Forest Hills, Queens. She was 92. Ms. Blau was the first non-Indian to be given the title of Natyakala Bushanam (Jewel of the Dance)
 ARKIN-Stephanie. Born May 31, 1945, died November 20, 1998. Daughter of the late Edward and Irma Arkin. Sister of Kay Arkin. She will be remembered for her generosity. Services will be held today, 10 AM, at Hirsch & Sons, Jerome Ave and 167th St, Bronx. Donations to any homeless charity in 
 FREED-Hermine E. Passed away on November 21, 1998. Artist, gourmet cook. Beloved wife of James Ingo Freed. Mother of Dara Michaella Freed. Sister of Alan Gerberg and Betty Weiner. Daughter of Israel Gerberg. She will last in the loving memory of her many friends and her family. Private fune
 JACOBOWITZ-Ruth. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the sister of our esteemed member Edith Cohen, and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 MARMON-Aline Greenebaum. Age 76. Of White Plains, NY. Died Saturday, November 21, 1998, at White Plains Hospital Center. Born in NYC, Aline was the daughter of the late Milton Joseph Greenebaum, founder of Kirby Block & Co. and co-founder of P.A. Bergner's Department Stores and of the late 
 RAFF-Shirley. Of Hewlett Harbor. Beloved wife of the late Bertram. Devoted mother of Sally, Linda (David) and Amy (Richard). Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Marcy, Erica, Kenny and Michelle. Sister of the late Bernard and also sister of Miriam. Died peacefully on November 22, 1998. Service
 RICHMAN-Janet. Adored wife of David. ''Tiger'' lost her courageous battle against cancer on November 21, 1998. Beloved daughter of Helen and Robert Gross; sister of Debbie Solomon; mother of Jerri Strauss and Steven Albrecht, and devoted nana to Josh and Doug. Service Wednesday, November 25
 SISSELMAN-Shirley Reinberg. Of Cresskill, NJ, died peacefully in her home, Saturday morning, November 21, 1998. Shirley left behind her devoted husband Milton, loving children Robert, William and Patricia, and her grandaughters Julie and Sara. Shirley was a loving and devoted wife, mother, 
 ZACHARY-Mary, 88, on Oct 25, 1998. Retired federal employee. She is sorely missed by: niece Hilary Bessieres and husband Michel and son Clovis; niece Malyne Sagerman and husband Robert and children, Roger, Jason, Evan, Eric; nephew Martin Frederick and wife Erica and children, Shara, Jessie
 BAILEY-Dolores (nee Mazzotti). Died at her home in Manhattan on November 23, 1998 at age 62. She is survived by Earl (Bill) Bailey, her husband of 32 years. Born in Syracuse, N.Y., she spent her childhood in Patchogue, N.Y. A graduate of City University of New York, she made a career in the
 CAMARGO-Florence S. On November 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ralph J. Camargo. Mother of Felice C. Meyer and Victoria Wyndham. Grandmother of Christopher P. Meyer, Darian Minnick and Christian Camargo. Sister of Helen Skeels Fowler and Herbert Skeels. Service and interment private. Co
 D'AMICO-Mabel. In Amagansett, NY on November 22, 1998. The Board of Trustees of The Victor D'Amico Institute of Art/The Art Barge mourn the loss of Mabel D'Amico. We will sadly miss her inspiration and creative energy. Burial service at Cedar Lawn cemetery, Easthampton, NY on November 28, 1
 DAVIS-Patricia Murdock, age 65, died on November 21st, 1998 in Scarborough, NY. Loving wife of Robert W., beloved mother of Thomas O. Williams, Jr., Phoenix, Md and Marjorie W. Vandenberg, Rye, NY. Also survived by her adored brother John J. Murdock, III of London, a wonderful daughter and 
 FELDMAN-Betty, of Bal Harbour, Florida, formerly of Forest Hills, New York, age 91, on November 22. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Feldman. Much loved mother of Joan, Robert and Linda. Devoted sister to Grace, David and the late Herman. Adored grandmother of Jane, Gerald, Andrew, Liz, Andr
 FISHMAN-Janet. Our dear neighbor and friend, we will always remember her intellect, wit and joie de vivre. Our deepest sympathy to Steve, Alexandra, Josh, and the entire Fishman and Klausner family. Ina, Stan, Barrett and Darren Lane       
 KELLEHER-Ruth. Dearly loved wife of Joseph died quietly in his arms on November 15, 1998 in Florida. She passionately loved cooking, New York, theater and politics. Ruth will be sorely missed by her husband, close friends, son Cameron, daughter Loren, granddaughter Ariel and her cherished c
 LEUBERT-Celestine C. (Tineey). Died peacefully on November 21, 1998 surrounded by family in Sun Valley, ID. Loving mother of Eloise (Cronin) & Susan. Cherished grandmother of Brian, Colleen, Kama. Sister of Frank Capka, Bernice Olt, the late Cyril Capka. Employee of FDIC, volunteer at Donne
 SEMEL-Clara. Congregation Sons of Israel, Woodmere, records with sorrow the passing of its member, beloved mother of our Board member, Martin Semel and extends its condolences to the bereaved family. Bruce Ginsburg, Rabbi Brian C. Rappaport, President Dr. Saul I. Teplitz, Rabbi Emeritus    
 SOKAL-Blanche. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend and supporter, Dr. Myron Sokal, and cherished mother-in-law of our most dedicated National Treasurer, Sondra Sokal. A ''True Woman of Valor,'' caring educator and consummate volunteer, Blanche Soka
 Peggy Lehman Korn, a New York philanthropist, died Nov. 17 at her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest, her family said. Born Peggy Lashanska Rosenbaum in Manhattan, she joined the board of Planned Parenthood of New York City in the 1940's an
 Luba Elianoff, a Latvian-born little old linen lady whose bearing was a bit too regal, whose spirit was a bit too fiery and whose embroideries were a bit too elegant to be called that to her face, died on Nov. 17 at her apartment on Riverside Drive. She was 96 and had much preferred to be c
 BAILEY-Dolores (nee Mazzotti). Died at her home in Manhattan on November 23, 1998 at age 62. She is survived by Earl (Bill) Bailey, her husband of 32 years. Born in Syracuse, N.Y., she spent her childhood in Patchogue, N.Y. A graduate of City University of New York, she made a career in the
 D'AMICO-Mabel. In Amagansett, NY, on November 22, 1998. The family of Mabel D'Amico mourns the death of our beloved aunt. She inspired us to see the beauty in every day things in the world about us. Her gentle grace and enthusiasm will be sorely missed.       
 FEDER-Jennie. 89. Died November 21st in Miami. Beloved aunt, sister, teacher. She will be sadly missed.       
 HYDE-Natalie Rubinstein. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Natalie Rubinstein Hyde, beloved mother of our esteemed colleague Judy Swartz. Our deepest heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President Dr. Lau
 LESSER-Doris. Beloved sister of Lawrence & Caroline Lesser and Jerome & Florence Lesser. Loving aunt of Stacey, Jill and Craig. She was a former administrator at Long Island Jewish Hospital and admired by all. She will be deeply missed. Services on Wednesday, at 1 PM at ''Riverside-Nassau N
 LEWIS-Mary, 81, died peacefully and without pain at home Monday evening, November 23rd, lovingly surrounded by her family and close friends. Mary's lifetime dedication to help make the world a better, healthier and safer place for children and other living things enabled her to do extraordi
 STATTER-Julia Brokaw. A lifelong New York resident died November 22, 1998 in her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Mrs. Statter was active in many organizations: The American Red Cross, Girl Scouts, U.S.O., Huguenot Society of America, National Institute of Social Sciences, Metropolitan Museum
 VOORHEES-Ruth Suydam. Age 100 of Far Hills, NJ on Monday, November 23, 1998. Wife of the late Edward LeRoy Voorhees. Mother of Stephen Coerte Voorhees of Merry Point, VA, Ann V. Haab of Franklin, NY and the late Peggy V. Reppert Martinez. She is also survived by eight grandchildren and 13 g
 ALBERT-Charlotte. Of Boca Raton, formerly of Roslyn Heights, New York, on November 25, 1998 after a gallant fight against lung cancer. Beloved wife of 50 years to Jack; loving mother of Susan and Wendy; devoted grandmother of Daniel, Andrea and Gregory. May she find eternal peace free of pa
 BERMAN-Edith. November 10, 1998. A woman of surpassing qualities: extraordinarily devoted wife, exemplary mother, patient, adoring grandmother, loyal, unwavering, and generous in her love for those dear to her. In her gracious, lovely, and endlessly unassuming way, she occupied a place in o
 CAMPBELL-Marion Danielson, of New York and Groton, Mass., former president and major stockholder of the Atlantic Monthly Company, died on November 24 in New York City at the age of 77. Mrs. Campbell's family acquired The Atlantic Monthly in 1938. Her own association with the venerable magaz
 MAAYANI-Edna. Bnai Zion, the 90 year old American Zionist Fraternal Organization, mourns the passing, after a long and courageous battle against cancer, of its long time Associate National Director Edna Maayani, a valiant worker and devoted supporter of Jewish causes and the State of Israel
 Celeste Mendoza, a Cuban singer who was known as the Queen of the Guaguanco, or street rumba, died on Sunday in Havana. She was 68. Cuban newspapers reported Ms. Mendoza's death but did not say what the cause was, according to the Associated Press. Ms. Mendoza, who was born 
 ADAMS-Anne Daughaday. Of Jupiter Island, Florida. On November 24, 1998. Born on April 27, 1920 in Winnetka, Illinois. Beloved wife of John Quincy Adams, Jr. Adored mother of Anne Adams Laumont, Katharine Adams Venizelos, and John Brooks Adams. Loving mother-in-law to Philippe Laumont & Lisa
 BOOKHALTER-Sophie, M.D. We deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Sophie Bookhalter who was an ardent supporter of the American Friends of the Hebrew University through the establishment of the Rasha Ehrman Bookhalter and Sophie Bookhalter, M.D. Endowment Fund which provides scholarships for under
 CAMPBELL-Marion Danielson, of New York and Groton, Mass., former president and major stockholder of the Atlantic Monthly Company, died on November 24 in New York City at the age of 77. Mrs. Campbell's family acquired The Atlantic Monthly in 1938. Her own association with the venerable magaz
 GOLD-Anne. On Nov. 26th, 1998. Beloved wife of Sol. Supermom to Tanya and Michael Romanoff, Stanley, Jay and Lorri Gold. Funloving grannie of Stuart and Jackie, Michelle and Alan, Darryl, Stephen, and Marc. GiGi to six great-grandchildren. Sister to Julie, Barney, and George White. She was 
 GREENSTEIN-Dorothy Milan, after a long illness, passed away at her home on Thanksgiving morning. Beloved mother of Betsy, grandmother of Matthew, wife of Morris, daughter of Minnie, mother-in-law of Robert, aunt of Florrie, Brett and Gregg. Her courage and humor were an inspiration. Funeral
 MAAYANI-Edna. Bnai Zion, the 90 year old American Zionist Fraternal Organization, mourns the passing, after a long and courageous battle against cancer, of its long time Associate National Director Edna Maayani, a valiant worker and devoted supporter of Jewish causes and the State of Israel
 RICHARDSON - Caroline Willis. Age 75. Died peacefully on November 24, 1998 at home in Bethlehem, Pa. Devoted wife of the late Wallace James Richardson. Loving mother of Caroline Richardson Mead, Ann Richardson Hagmann, and Helen Hope Richardson; and mother-in-law of Robert Keating Hagmann. 
 CAMPBELL-Marion Danielson, of New York and Groton, Mass., former president and major stockholder of the Atlantic Monthly Company, died on November 24 in New York City at the age of 77. Mrs. Campbell's family acquired The Atlantic Monthly in 1938. Her own association with the venerable magaz
 GREENSTEIN-Dorothy. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Dorothy Greenstein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to the members of her family. Robert K. Low, President       
 GREENSTEIN-Dorothy Milan, after a long illness, passed away at her home on Thanksgiving morning. Beloved mother of Betsy, grandmother of Matthew, wife of Morris, daughter of Minnie, mother-in-law of Robert, aunt of Florrie, Brett and Gregg. Her courage and humor were an inspiration. Funeral
 LEVINE-Tobie. Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Tobie Levine, and express our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Myrna Feinbloom, and sons Lawrence and Bert, and families. Robert J. Capazzi, President Carol Rose, W
 MASON-Katharine Post Palmer, formerly Mrs. J. Culbert Palmer, of Stonington, CT, died Nov 26th. Born September 25, 1901, the daughter of Mr. & Mrs. A. Wright Post of New York and Bernardsville, NJ. A graduate of Chapin School, she was the widow of J. Culbert Palmer and Charles J. Mason. Act
 SCHLESINGER-Dorothy. Will be missed by the loved ones to whom she devoted her life. Dotty, was a wonderful mother to son Joseph and daughter-in-law Bunny, and loving grandma to Jill and Robert. She passed away on November 26th, date of her wedding anniversary with Murray, whose memory she c
 ZIEGLER-Helen C. Widow of Joseph B. Ziegler, died at her home November 25 at age 96. She was a writer and speaker during World War II about women's contributions to the war effort in England. Her stories are on exhibit in Washington, D.C. at the American Museum for Women.       
 Helen Herrick Malsed, a lumber baron's daughter whose imagination gave rise to the popular Slinky Dog and Slinky Train toys, died Nov. 13 in Seattle, her home for almost 60 years. She was 88. She created more than 26 toys or games, including the first board game based on Roman numer
 BERNSTEIN-Harriet (nee Hoberman). Died November 28, 1998, peacefully, of Manhattan, West Palm Beach and the Berkshires. Will be dearly missed by those who loved and knew her. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Myra and Michael Tweedy and Fran and Robert Krivit. Adored grand
 BOOKHALTER-Sophie, M.D. November 25. Devoted sister of Kay Bobbin and aunt of Barbara Joyce Bobbin. She will be missed by her loving family and many friends.       
 CAMARGO-Florence S. On November 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ralph J. Camargo. Mother of Felice C. Meyer and Victoria Wyndham. Grandmother of Christopher P. Meyer, Darian Minnick and Christian Camargo. Sister of Helen Skeels Fowler and Herbert Skeels. Service and interment private. Co
 CHOLAKIS-John Elias. Died at home November 27. Beloved husband of Betty Cholakis. Loving father of Elia Cholakis. Loving brother of Elly Koustefanou and her family. Memorial service to be anounced.       
 CORPUEL-Belma Teich. Beloved wife of Jules; mother of Michael, Noel, Peter and Jeffrey, Kathy, Carol and Georgeann; sister of Elsie Seckel and the late Victor Teich; sister-in-law of Edythe Teich; brother-in-law of the late Robert Seckel; grandmother of Stacy, Adena, Josh, Alison, Jessica, 
 deVEYRAC-Gloria Carr. Nov. 23, 1998. Retired fashion director. Her career spanned many years in the international world of fashion. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. A memorial service will be announced at a future date.       
 FELDMAN-Elane. We mourn the loss of a dear and courageous friend and altogether wonderful human being. A talented writer and publicist, she was the author of ''Going Bananas''; ''The Writer's Guide to Self-Promotion and Publicity'' and ''Fashions of a Decade: The 1990's.'' Our hearts go out
 FORMAN-Shifra. Wife of Isadore. Mother of Laurie (Russ), David (June). Bobe of Sam and Julia. A wonderful and warm human being who will be missed by all whom she touched. Funeral service at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam, 12:30 PM, Monday, November 30, 1998.       
 GOLD-Anne. On November 26th, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Super Mom to Tanya and Michael Romanoff, Stanley, Jay and Lorri Gold. Fun-loving Granny of Stuart and Jackie, Michelle and Alan, Darryl, Stephen, and Marc. GiGi to six great-grandchildren. Sister to Julie, Barney, and George W
 HANDLER-Clara Schwartzman, 88. Devoted sister of Sara Kaufman, loving aunt of Carol and Henry, doting grandaunt of Erica, widow of Leo for nearly half a century, riveter of ships in World War 11, bookkeeper by profession, seamstress, clothing designer and artist by avocation, published poet
 LOIACONO-Margery M. Age 73, a longtime Fairfield, CT resident, formerly of New York passed away at her home on November 28, 1998 after a long battle with cancer. Born in Cheertsey, England, she saw service in the Women's Land Army in WW II, where she met and later married her husband at war
 OVADICK-Ruth (nee Rosenbaum). On November 10. Of Delray Beach, FL. Devoted wife of Manny. The entire family deeply mourns her passing. She will be in our thoughts and prayers always.       
 VUILLET-Frances Jeanne. Died November 21 at Geer Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Canaan, Connecticut. She was 91 years old. Born in Jersey City, New Jersey, Mrs. Vuillet lived for many years in London and Paris with her late husband, Samuel Vuillet. Since 1960, she had resided in Locus
 WEBB-Lucy Hoffman. 71 years old. Died on November 21st after a long illness battling cancer. She was married to Lt. Colonial Charles Webb, Jr. and was the daughter of the late Colonial Albert Lincoln Hoffman and Elaine Sullivan Hoffman. Mrs. Webb was the granddaughter of the late Mr. and Mr
 deVEYRAC-Gloria Carr. Nov. 23, 1998. Retired fashion director. Her career spanned many years in the international world of fashion. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. A memorial service will be announced at a future date.       
 FORMAN-Shifra. Wife of Isadore. Mother of Laurie (Russ), David (June). Bobe of Sam and Julia. A wonderful and warm human being who will be missed by all whom she touched. Funeral service at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam, 12:30 PM, Monday, November 30, 1998.       
 GOLD-Syd. 91, a lifelong Manhattanite and bibliophile. Please join her family to grieve and honor her, Monday, November 30, noon at Kehila Chapel, 201 E. Broadway.       
 HERZOG-Grace Feder. On Thursday, November 26, 1998, Grace Feder Herzog, beloved wife of the late Sol A. Herzog, extraordinary mother of Richard and Robert Herzog, devoted aunt to Bruce and Madeleine Sidelnik, loving mother-in-law to Barbara and Margot, adoring grandmother to Jeffrey Herzog,
 MILLER-Trudy (Horowitz). On November 28, 1998. Beloved mother of Bill, Ronnie, and Paul. Grandmother of Jonathan, Elizabeth, Andrew, and Jared. Companion of Fred Jacobson. Resident of Lido Beach and Queens, NY. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, 
