 FEIN--Lillian. Devoted sister to Florence Wasserstein and Milton Fein. Passed away on October 29, She will be greatly missed and leaves a void that can never be filled. Services on Sunday at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 10:30AM.       
 McNICOL--Doris (Samantha), 83, of North Palm Beach, FL (formerly of NY and Upper Brookville), died October 30. Beloved mother of Elaine Postley, Janet Barton, Dr. Donald McNicol and Paul McNicol. Loving grandmother of John, Christopher, Scott, William, Katherine Rose and Campbell. Proud gre
 McQUARY--Joan S. 81, a resident of Manhattan and Kismet, Fire Island, died on October 31, 2003. She was a graduate of the University of Minnesota and had a long and distinguished career at Columbia University Press. She is survived by Mignon Sauber, her long time companion.       
 SCHNELLER -- Adeline V. (nee Goldhammer), on October 28, 2003, in Bethesda, Md., in her 94th year. Longtime resident of NYC and Boca Raton. Beloved wife of Maxwell for 74 years. Devoted mother to Marlene Harte and Joan Knight and their husbands. Adored grandmother to Roger and John Harte an
 Dorothy J. Farnan, a high school English teacher whose friendship with the poet W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, enabled her to write ''Auden in Love,'' a book about their life together, died on Oct. 23 in her Manhattan apartment. She was 84. Ms. Farnan bridged the wo
 AERENSON -- Marjorie, 81, died October 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Bob. Cherished mother of Carol Lucy. Devoted sister to Helen Gurwitt Saltzman, Reis Gurwitt (Lenore) and the late Laurel Gurwitt Chaback. Also survived by Dorothy Rosenberg, Annette and Lee Aerenson, many nieces, nephews, grea
 BLICHT--Rhoda. The President, Board and staff of the New York Organ Donor Network mourn the passing of Rhoda Blicht. A loving wife, mother and grandmother, Rhoda dedicated her life to saving others through organ donation. She was Founder of the American Liver Foundation, Long Island Chapter
 DAHLBERG--Audrey A., 82, died October 18, 2003, in Banning, CA. She is survived by her children, Ann L. Dahlberg & Scott E. Dahlberg. She was a homemaker and previously lived in Manhattan, Ridgewood, NJ, and La Jolla, CA.       
 GRUSZECKI -- Fanny. We have loving thoughts of a fine lady who was so a part of our family. May her memory bring you peace and help you through this time. All of our love -Barbara, Orin, Liz, Rob Jordan and Paula       
 GUTTMANN--Ruth, M.D. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University Health Sciences Division mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Dr. Ruth Guttmann. Dr. Guttmann served on the faculty in the Department of Radiology at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons from 
 HOROWITZ--Ruth ''Bunny''. On October 7, 2003 at age 89. She will be missed by the friends, family, and neighbors whose lives were richer for having known her. Beloved cousin of Sally, Saul, Daniel, Howard, Stacy, Lynne, Charles, and Jason; beloved aunt of Peter and Ann; beloved ''aunt'' of 
 RABB--Elaine (nee Loewenthal), 76. Wife of the late Irving L. Died in her home September 26. Pre-deceased by son Steven L. and survived by daughter Jo Lee Beaty of Gainsville, Fl and sons David L. of Lone Tree, Co and James L. of Aurora, Il. A memorial celebration is planned in Pompano Beac
 SAYER--Rose. Died October 30, at the age of 106. Devoted wife of the late Victor. Loving mother of Felice Wiener, Myron, Bertram and Irwin. Beloved mother of the late Zelda Blechner. Cherished grandmother of 14, great grandmother of 20, and great great grandmother of one. She will be missed
 SCHUBACK--Jeanette. 92, on October 31, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Loving mother of Sara and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Richard, Elizabeth, Jesse and Philip. Devoted sister of Ruth and Howard. She was a graduate of NYU and Columbia, and had a long teaching career. Services
 TENNENBAUM--Mildred. Of Brighton Beach, on October 29, 2003. Passed on quietly. As with everything in life, she did it her way. She is survived by Aileen and Howard Golden, Eugene Messinger and Dr. Barbara Kanal, Alan Wolsky, Michelle Golden, Dana and Lawrence Moses, Ronald Wolsky and Mark 
 WEINSTOCK -- Betty. The Board of Columbia/Barnard Hillel deeply mourns the passing of Betty Weinstock, wife of our devoted Board member, Arthur Weinstock. Our sincere condolences to Arthur and family. May her memory be a blessing. Ruth E. Horowitz Richard E. Kobrin Co-Presidents Earle W. Ka
 ZUCKERMAN -- Musia. Passed away peacefully on October 31. Beloved wife of Martin. Loving mother of David. Devoted daughter of the late Joseph and Lea Dimentstein. Cherished niece of Anna Caitak and Masha Sommer and cousin of Doris Martinazzi. Dedicated psychotherapist. Holocaust survivor. H
 CHAIKEN -- Harriet Honey (nee Goldman). 84, of Columbia, MD, on Thursday, October 30, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Chaiken. Loving mother to Shelly Chaiken, New York, NY, Dr. Marc Chaiken and his wife Bunny, Columbia, MD, and loving grandmother to Jeff, David, Zach and Ben Chaiken
 DYSTEL--Marion. Of Rye, NY, passed away on November 2, 2003, at White Plains Hospital due to complications of pneumonia. Born Marion Deitler on February 7, 1915, in Bridgeport, CT, to Louis and Fanny Deitler. She was raised and educated in public schools in Bridgeport, where she met and mar
 McQUARY--Joan S. 81, a resident of Manhattan and Kismet, Fire Island, died on October 31, 2003. She was a graduate of the University of Minnesota and had a long and distinguished career at Columbia University Press. She is survived by Mignon Sauber, her long time companion.       
 NEARY--Mary Alice (Mimi). Of Upper Montclair, on November 1, 2003. Mother of Lisa Neary and Mary Louise Rubin; sister of Roberta Bennett and A. Frederick Gerstell; and also survived by four grandchildren. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered on Wednesday, at 11 AM, at St. Cassian's Ch
 NEU -- Charlott (Kraemer Neu). Wife of the late Frank Neu, passed away on October 31, at the age of 94. She was an example of great courage which we will never forget.       
 SHAPIRO--Honora (Honey) (nee Rubel), pka Honey Sanders, of Los Angeles and New York, died suddenly on October 31st at 75 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Albert Shapiro, loving mother of Barbara, Stephen, Kelly, dear friend to her son-in-law Lou, adoring grandmother of Eli, Eva, Nicol
 SPITZER--Sylvia Linder, on October 28. Survived by her devoted husband, Herman. Beloved wife of the late Frank Linder. Her children, Susan, John and Bill, were enriched through her intelligence, energy and caring. She was an abiding presence for her grandchildren. Her memory will also be ch
 FLORIO--Iris. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member, Iris Florio. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Tuesday, November 4 2003 at 12pm. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, Pre
 GILBERT--Phyllis (nee Fein) of Englewood, NJ on November 3. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Erica, Andrea and Steve. Dear sister of Judith Lasser. Doting grandmother of Simon, Alex and Claire. She will be missed by all. Services Wednesday, November 5, at 11:30am (Wien & Wien, Hacke
 HOMSY--Olga, died November 1, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Ernest. Survived by her loving children Joanne, Jackie, Jerry, Teena and Paul, 13 devoted grandchildren, her eight great-grandchildren, and her brother Paul and sister Yvonne. Dignity and grace defined her life. She was a blessing
 KLAPPER--Arthur. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Arthur Klapper, beloved brother of Martha Goldberg. We extend our deepest condolences to Martha and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 LEICHTER--Adrian, a young, talented artist with a strong and independent spirit who died suddenly of heart failure at age 39. She will be deeply missed by father, Robert; sister, Pamela; brothers, Adam & Christopher; sisters-in-law, Emily and Charlene, family and friends. Private services. 
 McENTEE--Maria Consuelo Cortes-Vergara, died peacefully on November 1, 2003, at her home in Denver after courageously battling a long illness. Connie, as she was known to family and friends, was born in Bogota, Colombia, but grew up in New York City and attended schools in the New York area
 NEARY--Mary Alice (Mimi) of Montclair on November 1, 2003. Beloved mother of Lisa Neary and her husband Geoffrey Whelan and Mary Louise Rubin and her husband John; sister of Roberta Bennett and A. Frederick Gerstell; adored grandmother of Oliver and Eleanor Whelan and Madeleine and Caleb Ru
 SHORTALL--Kathleen Deady; on Thursday, October 30, 2003 of Washington, D.C. Beloved mother of John Shortall. Also survived by daughter-in-law Sarah Shortall. She was pre-deceased by husband Thomas Gleason Shortall. Mass of Christian Burial 10am Wednesday, November 5 at St. Agnes Catholic Ch
 TANNEY--Beatrice Lilienfeld 91. On November 2. Wife of the late Allen D. Tanney, M.D. Survived by Mildred Corning, many good friends including Elizabeth and Gabriel Perdomo who took loving care of her to the end.       
 ACKERMAN LUBIN--Elsie. Devoted wife, loving mother of Anita Skalka, Sally Calavetta, Bob Ackerman and Rosalie Margolis Druyan, much adored grandmother and dear great grandmother passed away on November 1, 2003 at age 89 with her family by her side. Shiva through today at the Calavetta home.
 DYSTEL--Marion. Of Rye, NY, passed away on November 2, 2003, at White Plains Hospital due to complications of pneumonia. Born Marion Deitler on February 7, 1915, in Bridgeport, CT, to Louis and Fanny Deitler. She was raised and educated in public schools in Bridgeport, where she met and mar
 FERBER--Leon, 96, died on November 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Phyllis for 62 years. Loving father of Paul Ferber, Laurie Ferber Podolsky and her husband, Morris Podolsky. Adoring grandfather of Joshua Podolsky. Funeral service 1PM, Thursday, November 6th at Beth-El Cemetery of Bergen Count
 GILBERT--Phyllis (nee Fein) of Englewood, NJ. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Erica, Andrea and mother-in-law of Steve. Dear sister of Judith Lasser. Doting grandmother of Simon, Alex and Claire. She will be missed by all. Services will be held at Wien & Wien, Hackensack, on Wednes
 HELLINGER--Eleanor (De Young). On November 3, 2003 at age 84. Mother of Doug, Steve, John, and Bob; grandmother of Danny, Sam, Laura, and Abigail; sister of Stella Donenfeld. She was a lady and a good sport; a woman with warmth, intelligence, compassion, and class. We dearly loved her and s
 LOEWY--Rosamond E. Of Manhattan, 82, passed away November 3rd following a lengthy illness. Graduate of Hunter College and Teachers College, Columbia University. Former teacher and guidance counselor in NYC for 35 years. Survivors include her brother Ben, niece Jane and nephew James. Service
 McNICOL--Doris. Sam, as she was known, was born in NYC and graduated from Fordham College. A lifelong lover and collector of American prints and paintings, she died peacefully on October 30, 2003 at home in North Palm Beach, Florida, by the ocean she loved. We will miss her terribly. The Po
 SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. The Manhattanville College community mourns the loss of Sheila Mary Smythe, one of its most dedicated and beloved alumni and volunteer leaders, who died on November 4, 2003. Few individuals have so modestly and selflessly served Manhattanville, helping to lead the colle
 ZUCKERMAN--Musia. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Musia Zuckerman. Musia was born in Vilna, Poland in 1938, and narrowly escaped a Nazi forced labor camp. For over a year Musia and her family were hidden by a farme
 Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland. She was 94. Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a run
 DYSTEL--Marion. The Southern New York Chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society records with sorrow the passing of Marion Dystel, esteemed Board member and lifetime Trustee. Our heart felt condolences to Oscar Dystel, her husband and soul mate of 65 years, and to the family. Board of Truste
 KRISTEL--Beverly. On November 4, 2003. Beloved wife to Ira for 53 years. Devoted mother to Alan, Steven and Mindy. Dear niece to Molly. Adored grandmother to Jackie, Elizabeth, Anna, Lara, Nicole, Jordana, Nathaniel, Julia, Anton and Matthew. Throughout her life, Beverly treasured her famil
 MARBER--Ethel, on November 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Al. Loving mother of Susan. Dear sister of the late Frank, Sophie, Bea, Frances and Seymour. She will be missed.       
 SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. Suddenly on November 4, 2003. Devoted daughter of Patrick and Molly (nee Gonley) Smythe. Dear friend of Anne E. Schneiders. She is also survived by a loving family in Ireland and England. She was a caring, compassionate woman who was always ready to help anyone in need.
 STIEGLITZ - TARRAS -- Caron, passed away on November 4th surrounded by her loving family. Adored by her husband, Marc. Beloved mother of Elizabeth, Alexander, Melissa and Danielle. Treasured sister of Evan and cherished daughter of George and Arlene. Funeral Thursday, 11AM, at Riverside Cha
 TARRAS--Dr. Caron. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President TARRAS--Caron. Marc, Elizabeth, Alex, Melissa and Danielle, our hearts are with you. Caron
 WOLF--Mariella. The K.S. Giniger Company mourns the loss of its longtime London representative and dear friend. Our sincere condolences to her many friends and loved ones.       
 DOW--Anne R. 65, of Cambridge, MA, on October 31. For 20 years, directed English as a Second Language programs at Harvard. Developed multi-media English language learning materials. Memorial service at Harvard's Memorial Church, December 5 at 11:30. Donations may be sent in her memory to Ca
 FEIGENBAUM--David Howard. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of David Howard Feigenbaum, beloved brother of Marilyn Feigenbaum Salenger. We extend our deepest condolences to Marilyn and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucke
 FEINBERG--Belle W. Age 94, of Lauderhill, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Passed away November 5, 2003. Cherished wife of the late Irving H. Beloved mother of Hon. Michael and Frank, mother-in-law of Marlene and Anita, grandmother of Roberta, Felicia, Andrew, Adam and Sharon. Great
 GARFIELD--Ruth. On November 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sid Garfield. Cherished mother of Judy Farinet (Gene) and Janet Jamieson (Bob). Adored grandmother of Andrew Jamieson and Jennifer Farinet. Throughout her life, Ruth treasured her family above all else and we will miss her love, 
 HOCKER--Wallis G., 88, of Windham, NH, on Sunday, November 2, 2003. Formerly of Raleigh, NC, and Summit, NJ area. Employed as Vice President and General Credit Manager for JC Penney Co., retiring in 1975. Husband of the late Marie (Bauer) Hocker (1998) and Ruth (Popkins) Hocker (1965). Fath
 KRISTEL--Beverly. On November 4, 2003. Beloved wife to Ira for 53 years. Devoted mother to Alan, Steven and Mindy. Dear niece to Molly. Adored grandmother to Jackie, Elizabeth, Anna, Lara, Nicole, Jordana, Nathaniel, Julia, Anton and Matthew. Throughout her life, Beverly treasured her famil
 LOEY--Rosamond. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her brother Ben, niece Jane, and nephew James, and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott M. Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Lau
 SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors together with all of its officers and employees mourn the passing of Sheila M. Smythe, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors. Sheila Smythe served on Mutual of America's Board since April 1991, participating on the Audit,
 Sheila Smythe, a former head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield and dean of the school of public health at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack. a spokeswoman a
 DEMB--Mildred, on November 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Devoted mother to Doris and Sheila. Caring mother-in-law to Jay and grandmother-in-law to Nancy. Adored grandmother to Rhonda, Lloyd, Hayes, and Tracey. And loving greatgrandmother to Daniel, Michael, and Zachary. She will 
 LANVY--Leslie P., beloved wife, devoted mother, cherished sister and daughter, and dearest friend, passed away on November 6, 2003. Leslie was a bright light who touched many lives in so many ways. She will be missed and remembered by all. Services in her honor will be held on Sunday, Novem
 MURPHY -- Jane Trafford Luke. Died on Wednesday, November 5, 2003, from complications from Lupus. She is lovingly remembered by her friends and family for her courageous battle with the disease, and for her generous spirit. Born October 17, 1953 in Charleston, S.C., Jane earned a B.S. from 
 PEARLMAN--Jean on November 5, 2003. Devoted wife of 47 years of the late Harold Pearlman. Beloved mother of Bernard Pearlman and Eugene (Ann) Pearlman. Adored grandmother of Rachel. Born Briansk, Russia in 1913, she and her family survived war and revolution before immigrating to America in
 STEVENS--Ella Clyde Myers, age 95, died on Monday, November 3, 2003 after a long and productive life. Born in Columbia, South Carolina, to the late Isaiah and Ola Myers. The widow of the late New York Supreme Court Justice Harold A. Stevens. A graduate of Benedict College and graduate studi
 C. Z. Guest, one of the monarchs of New York society who was a perennial selection on the best-dressed list, a noted horsewoman and an authority on gardening, died yesterday at home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 83. Mrs. Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child fo
 BAKER -- Kathleen O'Neil. Passed away peacefully November 7, in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Sylvester S. Baker. She is grieved by her daughter Nancy Baker Weeren, son-in-law Donald, and family. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Smith College, she had a distin
 BYRNE--Sandra M. 9/26/68-10/26/03. Beloved mother of Ryan W. Byrne, age 31/2, and Jack E. Byrne, age 11/2. Devoted wife to Terence F. Byrne. Survived by mother Fong Yuk Eng and father Hon Yue Eng, and sister Cindy Eng, brothers Norman and Gary Eng. Sandy was born in Hong Kong and moved to C
 GESUALDI--Mary, in her 102nd year, of Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, on November 5th, 2003. A scholarship recipient, Mary graduated from New Rochelle College as an accomplished French teacher in the NYC Board of Education. She was fondly admired by colleagues and students at New Utrecht H.S., 192
 GREENE--Naomi. November 8, 2003, at peace. Loving and devoted wife of Franklin, mother to Beverly and Jeffrey, proud grandmother of Ariel and Emily, mother-inlaw to Miriam and Martin. She dedicated her life with passion to early childhood education. Services to be held on Monday, November 1
 MALONE--Nola Langner, 73, award-winnng illustrator/author of children's books. Nola's prolific career encompassed five decades and more than 30 books, her pioneering artistic style characterized by the use of muted washes-a radical departure from the garish colors conventional to the genre 
 MITCHELL--Valerie (Nield). 67, died at home in Yarmouth Port, MA, Thursday, October 30, after a three year battle with cancer. Born in New York City, she attended Nightingale-Bamford School, was presented at the Tuxedo Autum Ball and graduated from Bennett Junior College. She worked for the
 MURPHY -- Jane Trafford Luke. Died on Wednesday, November 5, 2003, from complications from Lupus. She is lovingly remembered by her friends and family for her courageous battle with the disease, and for her generous spirit. Born October 17, 1953 in Charleston, S.C., Jane earned a B.S. from 
 SILBERSTEIN -- Margaret ''Peg'' Kirrane. Died Thursday, November 6, 2003 following a courageous battle with leukemia. Born in Brooklyn, NY, she had been a resident of East Haddam since 1961 and was married for 48 years to the late David Silberstein. She is survived by her brother the Revere
 WISE--Eugenie M. (Pisani). Former Manhattan resident. On November 7, 2003 at Southampton Hospital, L.I. Predeceased by her parents, Eugene and Helen Wise and brother Thomas. Beloved widow of the late Dr. Anthony J. Pisani. Survived by nieces Wendy Wise Routh and Jennifer M. Wise. Invaluable
 WOLF--Mariella. The K.S. Giniger Company mourns the loss of its longtime London representative and dear friend. Our sincere condolences to her many friends and loved ones.       
 C. Z. Guest, one of the monarchs of New York society who was a perennial selection on the best-dressed list, a noted horsewoman and an authority on gardening, died on Saturday at home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 83. Mrs. Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child 
 GIBBY--Anne Willard. Of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ, and Pocono Lake Preserve, PA, died November 7. She is survived by her husband, Robert, and children, Robert Jr., Susan Gillim, Alan, and James, and sister, Mary Atwater Keer, plus eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Servic
 HEATH--Florence Hart. In loving memory of Florence Hart Heath (died October 30, 2003) from her children Linda Miller Bain, Byron S. Miller Ph.D. & Gail Hart Miller and family.       
 KATZ--Yetta (nee Herzlich). At 92, peacefully on November 8, 2003, at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Jonas for 57 years; both born in Dynow, Poland. Cherished mother of Sandy, Helen and Stanley, Nancy and Harold. Adored grandmother of Howard, Lori, A
 LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY, died on November 8, 2003, of metastatic breast cancer. Dedicated and forever supportive wife to Phil, loving and caring mother to sons Jeff and Mark, and her daughters-in-law Ivy and Joanne. Proud Nanny of grandson Gray. Protective sister and friend to
 MILLER--Helen Reiser, 94, wife of the late Dr. Theodore R. Miller, died Sunday, November 2, at home. Longtime residents of NYC, the Millers retired to NJ in 1975. Mrs. Miller was a volunteer Braille transcriber for the Lighthouse, a patron member of Mu Phi Epsilon, a member of the P.E.O. Si
 MURPHY -- Jane Trafford Luke. Died on Wednesday, November 5, 2003, from complications from Lupus. She is lovingly remembered by her friends and family for her courageous battle with the disease, and for her generous spirit. Born October 17, 1953 in Charleston, S.C., Jane earned a B.S. from 
 WILLIAMS--Frieda V. Of Harlem. Died on November 7, 2003, at home with her beloved family: her husband of 29 years, Ronald H. Williams, and her two sons, Todd Williams and Matthew Williams. She passed away in peace after her long, brave struggle with cancer. Visitation is on Tuesday, Novembe
 AMATO--Maria Adelaide. On November 10, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Frank Amato. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, November 11th, 2-5 and 79PM. Mass of Christian Burial at Saint Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Wednesday, 
 GUEST--Lucy C. (C.Z.) of Old Westbury, L.I., on November 8th, 2003. Loving wife to the late Winston. Adored mother of Cornelia and Alexander. ''Ganny'' to her grandchildren who she called her ''3 Hercules'', Gregory, Winston and Ivor. Memorial service is on Saturday, November 15, 2003 at 11
 McKINNEY--Elizabeth McLane. Died after a short illness in Cincinnati, Ohio November 7, age 73. Survived by her husband Richardson McKinney and children Cricket Brien, Rick, Christopher, Jono and twelve grandchildren, brothers Thomas L. and James W. McLane, sister Greer Hopkins. Contribution
 MURPHY -- Jane Trafford Luke. Died on Wednesday, November 5, 2003, from complications from Lupus. She is lovingly remembered by her friends and family for her courageous battle with the disease, and for her generous spirit. Born October 17, 1953 in Charleston, S.C., Jane earned a B.S. from 
 ROTHENBERG -- Amy. On November 10, 2003. Born in 1914 in Brooklyn to Nicholas and Elsie (Morris) Bernstein. Loving mother of Terry Monness Cohen. Caring stepmother of James Rothenberg. Devoted sister of Shirley Siegel. She adored her grandchildren Allison, Joanna and Nicholas Cohen, and ste
 BLEIER--Shirley Band. Mother, grandmother, great grandmother died November 2, 2003 at age 89. She will be forever loved, missed and never forgotten.       
 DAWSON--Brigid Ruth. Age 73, on November 7, 2003. Daughter of the late Cyril and Marjorie, of Yorkshire, England. Sister of Michael and Valarie and family, Judy and Ken and family, and Chris and Christine and family. An English teacher of many years. A celebration of her life will be held a
 MINCIELI--Millie. On November 11, 2003. Beautiful wife of Michael Mincieli, loving mother of Michael and Dennis, adoring great-grandmother ''GG'' of Jack and Will Allee. She was one of the lucky ones--a lively, beautiful woman blessed with an extraordinarily loving and gentle husband, devot
 O'SHAUGHNESSY -- Lucy Eleanor. On Monday, November 10, 2003 at the age of 79 years, she died peacefully in her home surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Denis (December 1977). Loving mother of Denis, Maureen (Shawn) Kennedy, John, Jean O'Brien, Patrice Fay, Mark and Eleanor Ba
 DAWSON--Brigid Ruth. Age 73, on November 7, 2003. Daughter of the late Cyril and Marjorie, of Yorkshire, England. Sister of Michael and Valarie and family, Judy and Ken and family, and Chris and Christine and family. An English teacher of many years. A celebration of her life will be held a
 GLENN--Barbara. Fondly remembered and sadly missed by the undersigned and her other American-standard colleagues at 40 W 40. Charles Carroll & Charles Gordon       
 KURTZ--Elaine. Suddenly, on Tuesday, November 11, 2003. Loved wife for 47 years of Jerome Kurtz, and mother of Madeleine Kurtz and Nettie Greenstein. Devoted grandmother of Noah and Eliza Miedel, and Emma & Nathan Greenstein. She was a productive and widely respected painter of abstract and
 MANNING--Eileen G. The Board of Directors of the Catholic Big Sisters notes with sorrow the death of our friend, board member and generous supporter, Eileen Manning. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family.       
 MINCIELI--Millie. On November 11, 2003. Beautiful wife of Michael Mincieli, loving mother of Michael and Dennis, adoring great-grandmother ''GG'' of Jack and Will Allee. She was one of the lucky ones--a lively, beautiful woman blessed with an extraordinarily loving and gentle husband, devot
 NEWMAN--Marion. November 12, 2003 at age 92. The backbone and inspiration of this family. Came to U.S. in 1920 from Zyradow, Poland at age 9. Wife of the late Morris. Mother of Harriet N. Cohen (Arthur Feinberg), Alvin Newman (Ruby), Molli Mezrich (Reuben), Sandra Newman (Jack Kerry). Grand
 O'SHAUGHNESSY -- Lucy Eleanor. On Monday, November 10, 2003 at the age of 79 years, she died peacefully in her home surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Denis (December 1977). Loving mother of Denis, Maureen (Shawn) Kennedy, John, Jean O'Brien, Patrice Fay, Mark and Eleanor Ba
 POVERENY--Rachel, 92. Beloved aunt, great-aunt, greatgreat-aunt, cousin and friend. Former teacher and guidance counselor at Bronx High School of Science. Profound influence on both children and adults, whom she nurtured intellectually and infused with a joy of life in all forms. Memorial S
 QUINN--Linda. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling LLP mourn the death at the height of her career of Linda Quinn. She was an eminent colleague, partner and friend. As an expert on securities law, she was a trusted and respected advisor to major corporations in the U.S.
 ROTHENBERG--Amy. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Amy Rothenberg and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, Secretary       
 SMOLEN--Cecilie F. Of New York, NY. Died May 2, 2003. Assistant Vice President with Chase Bank until she retired. Survived by a brother and three nephews.       
 Ann Cornelisen, an American expatriate writer who brought spry and steely language to her evocative books about the poverty-stricken South of Italy, died on Wednesday at her home in Rome, Ga. She was 77. The cause was not disclosed by her funeral home, and she had no immediate survi
 Linda C. Quinn, a specialist in securities law and an influential force at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1980's and 1990's, died on Tuesday in Dalton, Mass. Her brother, Michael, said the cause of death was breast cancer. Ms. Quinn was 55 and had residences in Manhat
 BORAK--Mae. On November 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Pat Hirsch, Marc and Phylis Borak. Loving sister of Thelma Chabot. Adoring Nana of David and Debbie Hirsch, Hillary and Todd Emmerman, Howard and Pam Hirsch, Jennifer and Amy Borak. Precious great-grandmoth
 DOMBROFF--Rita. Wife of the late Joseph Dombroff. After 104 wonderful years passed from a short illness November 11. She was much loved. A vibrant woman, a student and teacher seeking truth. An inspiration to all who knew her. She is survived by great-nieces Deanna Morton, Wendy Sternberg a
 FRIEDLAND--Jean Larkin. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Cherished mother of Edward, Hope, Mary and Nancy. Proud grandmother of eight and great grand mother of four. Pioneer in the personnel industry. A woman of great strength & courage. Shiva will be held at 360 East 72 Street. Contributio
 MOORE-COWAN--Daisy Bell. 101, died Tuesday in her home in Greenville, SC. She is survived by her grandson, John Lee (Mattye) CowanJones and great grandson, Orlando Jones. Funeral November 17 in Prichard, AL.       
 NEWMAN--Marion. November 12, 2003 at age 92. The backbone and inspiration of this family. Came to U.S. in 1920 from Zyradow, Poland at age 9. Wife of the late Morris. Mother of Harriet N. Cohen (Arthur Feinberg), Alvin Newman (Ruby), Molli Mezrich (Reuben), Sandra Newman (Jack Kerry). Grand
 QUINN--Linda. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling LLP mourn the death at the height of her career of Linda Quinn. She was an eminent colleague, partner and friend. As an expert on securities law, she was a trusted and respected advisor to major corporations in the U.S.
 SCHAEFFER -- Lillian (nee Kessler), November 12, 2003. Wife of late Jack of Cherry Hill. Mother of Temma (Alfred) Kingsley and Illene (Warren) Rubin. Sister of Ruth Schimmel. Grandmother of Mark (Bonni) Kingsley, Audrey Kingsley, Paul Rubin and Julie Rubin. Great-grandmother of Jack Spencer
 TANIS--Effie. On Wednesday, November 12, 2003 of Wayne, NJ. Formerly of Paterson, NJ. Wife of the late Philip Tanis. Mother of Debra Tanis and her husband Mark White, Edie Tanis Brenna and her husband Chuck Brenna of Philadelphia, PA, Joni Tanis and her husband Alan O'Neill of Oakland, CA, 
 ZENKER--Pauline. On November 12, 2003 of Roslyn Heights, L.I. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Devoted mother of Steven (Denise), Barbara Zenker and Suzanne Gilbride (Thomas). Dear sister of Milton Lukaczer and the late Rose Nichols. Adored grandmother of Jody and Deven. Cherished great grand
 BIDWELL--Katharine Tudor O'Neil, of New York, NY and Fishers Island, NY on November 13, 2003, an amazing mother, wife and grandmother. She devoted her life to her family and to education and music. Her memory will be a beacon for her family and friends. Funeral Services Thursday, November 2
 GARDINER--Katharine Hone Emmet Bramwell, died peacefully August 18, 2003 in Princeton, NJ, aged 88. Daughter of Helen (Auerbach) and Herman LeRoy Emmet, and a descendant of both New York's Mayor Philip Hone and NY State's Attorney General Thomas Addis Emmet, Kate leaves her wonderful husban
 GILMARTIN--Mary D. Mary Doris Gilmartin, 83, of Vero Beach, died unexpectedly November 12, 2003. Loving wife of Roger T. Gilmartin (deceased) for 56 years. Surviving are her sons Thomas D. Gilmartin and Roger A. Gilmartin; daughter, Molly Gilmartin, Christin Gilmartin and Carol Gilmartin; a
 HAZEN--Irene A. (nee Blitstein). At 74, peacefully, on November 13, 2003 at her home. Beloved wife of Joseph for 55 years. Cherished mother of Stephanie and Andrew. Adored grandmother of Shane and loving sister of Gladys. She was a wonderful woman whose kindness and wisdom is an inspiration
 MILLER--Ruth F. Of Tucson, AZ. Beloved wife of Earl Darwin passed away on Sunday, November 9, 2003 at home surrounded by her children, David Miller, Andrew Miller, Phillip Miller and Emily Keeler. She also leaves four grandchildren. A memorial service planned for Sunday, November 23, 2003, 
 NADEL--Charlotte F. Died peacefully on November 13 in her 100th year. She was the wife of the late Benjamin Nadel and is survived by her sons, Lawrence, Norman and Joshua, by six grandchildren, Charles, Brian, Melissa, Victoria, Dan and Etyan, and seven great-grandchildren, Emily, Graham, N
 Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died yesterday. She was 70. Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she died
 ACKERMAN--Gwendolyn J. (nee Hill). Age 89, died November 7th. Mrs. Ackerman, widow of Dr. Nathan W. Ackerman, founder of the Ackerman Institute for the Family, is survived by her daughters Deborah Carol Ackerman of NYC and Jeannie Ackerman Curhan (Mrs. Joseph Williams) of Boston, MA; her gr
 BADER--Beatrice. November 13, 2003, after a long illness. Beloved mother, adored grandmother and great grandmother. From your loving family, we will always miss you. BADER--Beatrice. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished me
 BIDWELL--Katharine Tudor O'Neil, of New York, NY and Fishers Island, NY on November 13, 2003, an amazing mother, wife and grandmother. She devoted her life to her family and to education and music. Her memory will be a beacon for her family and friends. Funeral Services Thursday, November 2
 BORAK--Mae. On November 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Pat Hirsch, Marc and Phylis Borak. Loving sister of Thelma Chabot. Adoring Nana of David and Debbie Hirsch, Hillary and Todd Emmerman, Howard and Pam Hirsch, Jennifer and Amy Borak. Precious great-grandmoth
 DRANOW--Sarinda C. Died peacefully on November 13, 2003. She is survived by daughters Patricia Beard and Elizabeth Krysztofiak; grandchildren Alex and Hillary Beard; brother David Cowin; and son-in-law Samuel Beard. Predeceased by husband Harry Dranow, brother Daniel Cowin and son-in-law Sa
 DWYER--Christine M. 57. Died November 8, of cancer. Beloved wife of Marc Fasteau, loving step-mother of Alexis and all-star aunt to Lindsay, Alexandra, Christopher, Meghan, Brad and Zack. Survived also by her parents, Arthur J. and Martha Dwyer, and brothers Arthur and Paul. A George Washin
 GARDINER--Katharine Hone Emmet Bramwell, died peacefully August 18, 2003 in Princeton, NJ, aged 88. Daughter of Helen (Auerbach) and Herman LeRoy Emmet, and a descendant of both New York's Mayor Philip Hone and NY State's Attorney General Thomas Addis Emmet, Kate leaves her wonderful husban
 GILMARTIN--Mary D. Mary Doris Gilmartin, 83, of Vero Beach, died unexpectedly November 12, 2003. Loving wife of Roger T. Gilmartin (deceased) for 56 years. Surviving are her sons Thomas D. Gilmartin and Roger A. Gilmartin; daughter, Molly Gilmartin, Christin Gilmartin and Carol Gilmartin; a
 HESS--Ilse Johanna. On November 12, 2003, age 89, at home in Chevy Chase, MD. Cherished wife of Charles Hess, of blessed memory. Adored mother of twins, Marion Ein Lewin (Larry) of Chevy Chase and Steven Hess (Sarah Atkinson) of Rochester, NY. Treasured grandmother of Mark and Jon Ein, Mich
 KELLY--Billie Ann Levine. On November 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Brian, loving mother of Daniel and James, and step-daughter Elizabeth. Devoted daughter of Lenore and Irvin Levine. Cherished sister of Margaret, Connie, Cathy and Milon. She is, and will always be, the light of our lives.     
 KLEINMAN -- Bella Pauline (nee Finger). Died on November 8th of complications following a heart attack. Beloved sister-in-law of Ida and Sidney Kleinman and Robert Haines, aunt of Ruth Kleinman, Daniel Haines, Matthew Haines and Francine Kane, her niece by marriage, greataunt of Philip and 
 NADEL--Charlotte F. Died peacefully on November 13 in her 100th year. She was the wife of the late Benjamin Nadel and is survived by her sons, Lawrence, Norman and Joshua, by six grandchildren, Charles, Brian, Melissa, Victoria, Dan and Etyan, and seven great-grandchildren, Emily, Graham, N
 O'NEIL BIDWELL -- Kathar ine. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 455 East 57th Street note with great sadness the death of Katharine O'Neil Bidwell, a member of the board and much admired resident. We extend our condolences to her husband, Truman, and to her family.       
 SCHAEFFER -- Lillian. The Board of Directors of The Zamir Choral Foundation extends condolences to its esteemed Board member, Temma Kingsley, and her family on the passing of her beloved mother, Lillian Schaeffer. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Matthew Lazar
 SPITZER--Louise F. Died peacefully at home November 5, 2003. Predeceased by her husband Sidney Spitzer and survived by Karen Marshall, grandchildren, and extended family. Born in 1908, she lived a full life with a passion for the arts, a philanthropic heart and a strong love and dedication 
 WARSHOFSKY--Isaac. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Isaac Warshofsky, beloved father of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Renee Warshofsky-Altholz, Corporate Director of Patient Care Services for Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) and
 Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday. She was 70. Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she di
 Lotte Berk, the dancer who gave her name to a no-nonsense system for achieving slim waists, trim thighs and taut bottoms that became a must for glamorous women in the 1960's, died on Nov. 4 in England. She was 90 and had lived there in Hungerford, Berkshire, since retiring about 20 years ag
 BIALEK--Rose. Died peacefully at home in her 94th year on November 14, 2003. She is survived by her son Ardie, her daughter-in-law Ann, her grandchildren Howard and Carol Epstein, Lynn and Gary Laurino, Michele and Todd Neufeld, David and Amy Bialek, her sister Shirley Brass and nine great-
 BIDWELL--Katharine Tudor O'Neil, of New York, NY and Fishers Island, NY on November 13, 2003, an amazing mother, wife and grandmother. She devoted her life to her family and to education and music. Her memory will be a beacon for her family and friends. Funeral Services Thursday, November 2
 JACOBY--Ruth. 89, died November 14, in Vermont. She enjoyed being a ''retired skibum'' in Vermont and summering on Fire Island. Beloved wife of Henry, and mother of Joan and Susan, and beloved sister of Gisella. Burial will take place Novemeber 17, at the Park Lawn Cemetery in Bennington, V
 KELLY--Billie Ann Levine. On November 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Brian, loving mother of Daniel and James, and step-daughter Elizabeth. Devoted daughter of Lenore and Irvin Levine. Cherished sister of Margaret, Connie, Cathy and Milon. She is, and will always be, the light of our lives.     
 KLEIN--Hortense Ciner. On November 15, 2003, at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Daniel J. Klein. Loving mother of Carolyne and Edward Levy and Robert and Susan Klein. Adoring grandmother of Jim and Sigal Levy, Matthew and Sharon Levy, Andrew and Alyssa Klein and Jeffrey Klein. Cherished gr
 LANGLADE--Patricia Mary McNulty. On November 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Gerald, loving mother of Laura and Tracey. Cherished sister of Kevin, Diane and Maureen. Treasured sister-in-law of Mary, James and Frank. Loved aunt of Jennifer, Charlie, Tommy, Emma, Tommy Finn and Juliette. We will al
 LOUDON -- Dorothy. On November 15, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Norman Paris. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Wednesday, November 19th, 6-8 PM, with services, Thursday, 11:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Actor's
 MOONEY -- Elizabeth Cole man. Of New York City, caring and courageous wife, mother and grandmother, died November 15, 2003, after a brief illness. With an MA in Education from the College of New Rochelle, she taught reading to the learning disabled for more than 25 years. Westover School, w
 ADLER--Toba. Died unexpectedly on November 13. Loving mother of Andrew and Suzy, grandmother of Jack, Lily and Naomi and a great friend to many. Private gathering at her home. Donations may be made to Gay Men's Health Crisis or The Central Park Conservancy. New York will not be the same wit
 BIDWELL--Katharine O'Neil. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are deeply saddened by the loss of Katharine O'Neil Bidwell, member of the Board since 1996, founder of our Patrons Program and the moving force behind a commissioning fund fo
 CAIOLA--Hedwig Birkenfeld, born February 21, 1925 in New York. A resident of New York, Geneva and Rome, she died peacefully on November 13th in Rome. A loving wife and mother, she is survived by husband Dr. Nicola Caiola; children Amelia, Sara and Francesco; granddaughter Chiara; and sons-i
 deGRANDPRE--Jeanne. Baroness von Griescheim. Born June 25, 1903, in Linz, Austria. Died November 13, 2003, in New York City. She was married to Baron von Griescheim, a German diplomat who was part of the conspiracy to assassinate Hitler. Educated in Paris, France, by the Madams of the Sacre
 GINSBURG--Freda Gordon. Born 1903, lived in the Bronx and Brooklyn, NY. Mother of the late Helene Ellinger, grandmother of Diane Rosmarin, and Mark Ellinger, great-grandmother of Adam, Seth, and Jodi, and great great-grandmother of Alexis. Worked as a bookkeeper in the floral industry in Ma
 KELLY--Billie Ann Levine. On November 14, 2003. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP are deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Billie Ann Levine Kelly. Billie's career at our firm began on July 9, 1979. As D
 LANGLADE -- Patricia. On November 14, 2003. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP are deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our beloved friend and colleague Patricia Langlade. Trish's career at our firm began on July 7, 1978, and more recentl
 LOUDON -- Dorothy. On November 15, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Norman Paris. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Wednesday, November 19th, 6-8 PM, with services, Thursday, 11:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Actor's
 MARANTZ -- Irma. Beloved wife of the late Morris, died peacefully November 16. Her son Howard, granddaughter Gayle Nobel, sisters Madeleine Kesselman, Rose Schindelheim, Hermine Gewirtz, Janice Feinson mourn her passing. She gave much and grew old with dignity. Services Tuesday at 11:30 at 
 REYES--Amelia, M.D. On November 15, 2003 in Port Washington, NY. Beloved pediatrician for more than 20 years, who loved to garden. She leaves behind her mother Adelaida, three sisters, four children, 15 nieces and nephews and many dear friends including the Rev. Diana Austin. Religious serv
 SCHWARTZ -- Cynthia. Age 80, passed away on November 16, 2003. Loving wife of the late Jack Schwartz, cherished mother of Martha Mason and Albert Simon, Lise, Eric Schwartz and Catherine Graham, Karl Schwartz and Helen Marino. Survived by five grandchildren and her brother Alvin Schechter a
 WITTY--Jeanne. On November 17, 2003. Jeanne Witty (nee Cohen Cole). Loving wife of the late Irwin D. Witty. Beloved mother of Joanne, Jonathan L. and Alan R. Witty. Devoted mother-in-law of Eugene J. Keilin and Merrill Witty. Daughter of the late Albert and Minnie Cohen. Loving grandmother 
 Katharine Thomas O'Neil Bidwell, a patron of music and education who headed the Metropolitan Opera Guild in the 1980's, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66 and also had a home on Fishers Island, N.Y. The cause was breast cancer, her family 
 ADLER--Toba. Died unexpectedly on November 13. Loving mother of Andrew and Suzy, grandmother of Jack, Lily and Naomi and a great friend to many. Private gathering at her home. Donations may be made to Gay Men's Health Crisis or The Central Park Conservancy. New York will not be the same wit
 BANGS--Jean Gridley, died on November 18, 2003, eight days before her 77th birthday; on Kiawah Island, SC; after brief illness. Beloved wife for 54 years of Nathaniel Swift Bangs; loving mother of Cally and Betsy Bangs; grandmother of Cally's son Peter; sister of Bill and Harry Gridley. Mem
 BEN AMI--Eve. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved longtime member, Eve Ben Ami, wife of the late Yitzhak Ben Ami. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her son Jeremy, her daughter Deborah, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, Pre
 BIDWELL--Katharine O'Neil. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are deeply saddened by the loss of Katharine O'Neil Bidwell, member of the Board since 1996, founder of our Patrons Program and the moving force behind a commissioning fund fo
 DRANOW -- Sarinda. The Mount Sinai Auxiliary Board mourns the passing of Sarinda Dranow, our member since 1983. Mrs. Dranow cochaired our gift shop where she worked for many years with the gracious consistance and a high standard of service. All of us extend our condolences to her family. S
 HAUSNER--Stanley. Service Guild of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourns the passing of our invaluable Life Member and husband of past Guild President, Florence Hausner. We extend our deepest condolences to Florance and her family. Isabel R. Albom, President       
 HURST--Ruth Gruber. Died peacefully November 16, 2003. Born in Queens April 15, 1923 to Max Mechel Gruber & Molly Masha Lustig Gruber. Beloved wife of the late Milton, cherished sister of the late Leo, Sam & Marty Gruber. Survived by her devoted son, Marc & daughter-in-law Molly Karp, her l
 LEAHY--Joan E. (nee Gomez-Franco), on September 28, 2003 in Henderson, NV from lung cancer. Born 1934 in New York City to Harry and Ada Allen Gomez-Franco, Joan moved with her family to Mexico City in 1938 where she spent much of her young life. She returned to the US to finish high school 
 LOUDON -- Dorothy. On November 15, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Norman Paris. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Wednesday, November 19th, 6-8 PM, with services, Thursday, 11:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Actor's
 MAIDMAN--Richard. F.E.G.S. Health and Human Services System mourns the passing of Dr. Richard Maidman, beloved brother of Sandra Cahn, esteemed Member of the F.E.G.S. Board of Directors and a leader of UJA-Federation of New York. Sandra's commitment, compassion, creativity and leadership ha
 REA -- Elizabeth Meeks. Passed today at her home in Menands, NY. She was 83. The cause of death was complications due to Parkinson disease. Elizabeth is survived by her children, Jane Crotty, C.W. ''Woody'' Rea, and Steven C. Rea and five grandchildren, John, Elizabeth and David Crotty and 
 ROSS--Edythe. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jerome H. Ross. Cherished mother of Lorraine Ross Goldman. Dear and adored friend of so many. A woman of elegance, indomitable strength and courage who loved life and was an inspiration to all, especially the physically disabled. A beautiful woman,
 RUDERMAN--Evan, 44, was a lifelong activist who fought injustice in many forms from organizing women factory workers to becoming one of the first female union electricians in NYC and building the Women's Construction Brigade that went to Nicaragua in 1987. A founding member of Women in the 
 SALMONOWITZ--Ida. Age 96. Passed away peacefully at her home in Florida, November 14, 2003. Mother of Irwin and Barry. Margulis. Motherin-law to Sharon and Sheila. Grandmother of five. Great grandmother of eleven. Loved by all. Rest in peace.       
 COURLAND--Nechama. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member, Ms. Nechama Courland, beloved sister of Raphael Courland. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood  
 DAVIS--Esther K., formerly of Savannah, Georgia and Brooklyn, New York. Died peacefully on November 17, 2003 in her 101st year. She is survived by Harold and Isabelle, Barry, Georgie and Lowell, Jill and Lenny, Lewis, Ben, Eric, Jonathan, Steven, Brian, L. Grant and Jack. The services will 
 ROSS--Edythe. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jerome H. Ross. Cherished mother of Lorraine Ross Goldman. Dear and adored friend of so many. A woman of elegance, indomitable strength and courage who loved life and was an inspiration to all, especially the physically disabled. A beautiful woman,
 Evan Ruderman, whose theatrical monologue about her own experience with AIDS was a major part of a documentary shown on public television in 1996, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 44. The cause was complications of AIDS, her mother, Dr. Cydelle Berlin, sa
 HARRIS--Alice June (nee Barasch). On November 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Robert, devoted mother of Claudia and Debra, cherished grandmother of Bret, (and Jennifer), April and Benjamin and revered by her sons-in-law Stephen and Mark. Our love of this wonderful woman will always live on in our
 HATCHER--Barbara Holdsworth. Died November 18, 2003. She was predeceased by her husband Lloyd B. Hatcher. She is survived by her brother Frederick Holdsworth, Jr., a daughter Barbara H. van Marx of Darien, CT., a son L. Brower Hatcher of Block Island, RI, grandchildren Paul L.A. van Marx, d
 KOWALL--Bonnie Crenshaw, 83, on November 8 in Kirkland, WA. Beloved wife of the late Konstant, devoted mother of Christina Edwards and grandmother of Jennifer Heiszler, and delighted greatgrandmother of Elke, all of Carnation, WA. She will be remembered by all her family and many friends in
 Le CORBEILLER -- Clare Eames. On November 19th, 2003, peacefully at her home in Manhattan. Survived by her husband, Jean, their daughter, Suzanne Le Corbeiller, and their daughter and son-in-law, Genevieve and Anthony White, and grandchildren, Jesse Stoler, Graham, Marion and Simon White. B
 POLLAK--Helen Field. Postgraduate Center for Mental Health notes with profound sorrow the loss of Helen Field Pollak, wife of our esteemed Trustee, Alan H. Pollak. Helen, who passed away on November 12, was a great friend of the agency who donated much time and energy to help us. We will mi
 TONER--Kathleen, IHM, on November 19. Samaritan House mourns the passing of our founder, inspiration, and friend, Sister Kathleen Toner. In 1984 Kathy created in Brooklyn the model home for homeless women and children. She developed the home, ran it and--most vitally-lived in it. Her vision
 Le CORBEILLER -- Clare Eames. On November 19th, 2003, peacefully at her home in Manhattan. Survived by her husband, Jean, their daughter, Suzanne Le Corbeiller, and their daughter and son-in-law, Genevieve and Anthony White, and grandchildren, Jesse Stoler, Graham, Marion and Simon White. B
 SHAPIRO--Sharon. On November 20, 2003, at age 56. Beloved wife of Ahmed Halima. Loving mother of Shannon Shapiro. Dear sister of Michael Stark and the late identical twin sister, Wileen Meacham. Granddaughter of the late Abe Stark, Brooklyn Borough President. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 
 TONER--Kathleen, IHM, on November 19. Samaritan House mourns the passing of our founder, inspiration, and friend, Sister Kathleen Toner. In 1984 Kathy created in Brooklyn the model home for homeless women and children. She developed the home, ran it and--most vitally-lived in it. Her vision
 Patricia Broderick, a writer and painter who was the mother of the actor Matthew Broderick, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 78. The cause was cancer, her son said. Raised in Manhattan on the Upper East Side but a devotee of the bohemian Village, Ms.
 BAKST--Shari, of Boynton Beach, FL on November 20, 2003. Devoted wife of Bennett. Beloved mother of Lyle (Karen), Shauna Heeger (Peter), Kathy Miljanic (Mio) and Ronna. Loving sister of Andrea Goldberg (Martin) and cherished grandmother. Shari was devoted to many philanthropic and Jewish ca
 COHEN--Ruth B. Of Forest Hills, retired medical librarian at Bronx Lebanon Hospital, died Saturday, November 22, 2003. Loving mother of Barry R. Cohen, and the late Kenneth P. Cohen, and daughters-in-law Ruthie and Naomi, beloved grandmother of Dana, Samara and Daniel, darling aunt to Mel a
 HAKIM--Touba. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the cherished matriarch of the Hakim family, beloved mother of Keyvan, a distinguished benefactor of our affiliate, The New York Synagogue. Our heartfelt sympathy to her nine children, 28 grandchildren, 41 great-grandchildren and two
 KALAIDJIAN--Elizabeth B., 81. Of Indian River Shores, Florida. Formerly of South Orange, New Jersey. A native of San Diego, CA. She worked during World War II at the U.S. Naval Hospital in that city. Beloved wife of 57 years of Edward C. Kalaidjian. Mother of Emma, Walter and Robert and pro
 KLEIN--Hortense Ciner. On November 15, 2003, at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Daniel J. Klein. Loving mother of Carolyne and Edwin A. Levy and Robert and Susan Klein. Adoring grandmother of Jim and Sigal Levy, Matthew and Sharon Levy, Andrew and Alyssa Klein and Jeffrey Klein. Cherished 
 KORR--Rhoda Ellis. 88. Dr. Rhoda Ellis Korr, a former professor at Brooklyn College for 35 years, died November 14, in Sun City, AZ. Dr. Ellis earned her Ph.D. from NYU in 1944. She was active in the Beth Emeth Congregation, won awards for her work with the UJA-Federation of Greater Phoenix
 LE CORBEILLER -- Clare. Revered curator at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, where she served as curator in the Department of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts until her retirement in 2000. Widely respected, especially as a connoisseur and historian of French porcelains and silver, she a
 LITTELL--Gertrude (Gretchen) died at the age of 97 in Hendersonville, North Carolina on November 5, 2003. She was born in Keene, New Hampshire on December 27, 1905, to the late Rev. Dr. John Stockton Littell and Gertrude Wilson Littell. For more than thirty years, she worked as a proofreade
 NADOHL--Dorothy. On October 18, 2003. Loving wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Allan and motherin-law of Aileen. She is also survived by her sister Ann Tannenbaum, brothers Sidney and Stanley Gelb, nieces, nephews, great nieces and nephews. Family and friends will miss her very mu
 ORDE -- Phyllis Eiseman. Friends and family of Phyllis Eiseman Orde honor her memory by recalling her loyalty and friendship of many years. She was born in Cincinnati, OH on September 26, 1915, the daughter of Dr. Abraham and Ann Eiseman. She arrived in New York City in 1955 where she resid
 PASEKA -- Margaret Clara (nee Meszaros). Born May 23, 1932, died November 13, 2003, in St. Thomas, U.S.V.I. Adventuress, world traveler, brilliant, independent, fearless, fun loving, caring and beautiful raconteur extraordinaire. Devoted school teacher at P.S. 221 in Douglaston. Loving moth
 SCHMITT--Lynn, R.N., L.N.C. Died on November 21, 2003. She leaves her husband George, daughter Lauren, her mother, brother Dr. Lacovara and her sister Dr. Pinto. She was a beautiful woman both in appearance and spirit. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her.       
 TONER--Kathleen, IHM, on November 19. Samaritan House mourns the passing of our founder, inspiration, and friend, Sister Kathleen Toner. In 1984 Kathy created in Brooklyn the model home for homeless women and children. She developed the home, ran it and--most vitally-lived in it. Her vision
 WITKIN--Elaine June. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Devoted mother of Pamela and Patricia and mother-inlaw of Allen Dreyfss and Ira Rothstein. Adored grandmother of Michael, Jonathan, Brett and Jessica. Loving sister of Leona Post and the late Marion Godsick. Dear sisterin-law to Sophie, 
 WONG--Nancy E. (Leo). In Monroe, CT, formerly of Rye, NY, and Houston, TX, loving wife of Kellogg, mom of Eric, Leta, and Trina, grandma to four grandchildren. Began her journey peacefully on November 8, 2003 after keeping lung cancer at bay for many months through the practice of Medical Q
 KIRKLAND -- Linda. Pro foundly loved and deeply missed. Today we honor our mother's 54th birthday. Death arrived September 22nd. She was the best and gave the best. Our love will prevail. Our memories will abide. Zosera, Nikki, Chucky, Jenny       
 Clare Le Corbeiller, a longtime curator of the decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. She had battled cancer for five years, said her husband, Jean Le Corbeiller. Mrs. Corbeiller was widely knowledgeable in 
 COHEN--Ruth B. Of Forest Hills, retired medical librarian at Bronx Lebanon Hospital, died Saturday, November 22, 2003. Loving wife of the late Harvey W. Cohen and mother of Barry R. Cohen, and the late Kenneth P. Cohen, and daughters-in-law Ruthie and Naomi, beloved grandmother of Dana, Sam
 FRIEDMAN--Judith, on November 22, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arnold D. Loving mother of Roger, Lisa and John. Mother-in-law of Pat and Kathy. Dear sister of Herbert Scheinberg. Cherished grandmother of Amanda, Randall and Julia. Mayest Thou O God of Mercy, shelter her forever under the 
 HAKIM--Touba. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP express our deepest sympathy on the death of Touba Hakim, mother of our esteemed client, Kayvan Hakim, and our dear friend, Kamran Hakim. May her memory bring comfort and always be a blessing to her family and a
 KIERAN--Margaret Ford, of Rockport, MA, on November 22, 98. Mrs. Kieran was a former editor and feature writer for the Boston Globe, Boston Herald and New York Times. She was the wife of the late John Kieran. She is survived by her stepson, Dr. James Kieran of Morago, CA, a Past President o
 FRANK--Eugene D., President of Sidney Frank Importing and long time resident of New Rochelle passed on November 24, 2003. Former husband of Doris L. Frank. Loving father of John R. Frank and Linda F. Rodman and her husband Lawrence B. Rodman. Adoring grandfather of Tara, Max and Jesse. Dear
 FRIEDMAN--Judith, on November 22, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arnold D. Loving mother of Roger, Lisa and John. Mother-in-law of Pat and Kathy. Dear sister of Herbert Scheinberg. Cherished grandmother of Amanda, Randall and Julia. Mayest Thou O God of Mercy, shelter her forever under the 
 GLEBERMAN--Miriam Rivkin, on November 22, 2003, at age 80. Beloved wife of J. Harvey (deceased). Loving mother of Joan, Ellen and Joseph. Grandmother of Matthew, Benjamin, Samantha, Sarah, Margaret and Charles. Also Linda Pyo Cavalier. Sister of Roslyn Attinson and Edith Susskind of Staten 
 HOWARD -- Beverly Ruth (Kahan), 66, of Westport, CT and Palm Beach Gardens, FL, beloved daughter, wife, mother and grandmother, died Saturday, November 22, 2003 at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. She was born April 11, 1937 to Helen (Peiros) Cohen of Tamarac, FL and the la
 MAGED--Betty Fox. Of Hallandale, FL, on November 24, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Henry Fox, and then of the late Myron Maged. Cherished mother of the late Marcia Stern and Jerry Fox, and mother-in-law of Marcia Fox and the late Sandy Stern. Cherished stepmother of Barbara Weinger, Bonnie
 MILLER--Joan Rahm. Of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away on November 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Hy Miller and cherished spouse of Malvin Rahm. Loving mother of Sharon Rahm Sheen and Randi Rahm. Adoring grandmother to Mathew, Andrew and Mason Sheen and Michael and Jason Bressler. She will alway
 BORREE--Jeannette. On November 19. Passed away peacefully. Beloved grandmother of Yvonne and her two daughters Susan and Jeanine. She meant the world to us and gave from her heart always. Her wonderful, giving spirit will be missed very much.       
 DEANE--Marjorie. The Board and staff offer its deepest condolences to the family of Marjorie Deane. Marjorie epitomized the values inherent in Girl Scouting as a dedicated director for over 20 years. All who knew Marjorie enjoyed learning from her and working by her side. Susan Nitze, Presi
 FAWER--Gertrude. A woman of valor. We extend heartfelt condolences to her beloved son Martin, Chairman of our Board, a daughter-in-law Estanne and her extended family of grandchildren, stepgrandchildren, and greatgrandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
 FRIEDMAN--Judith, on November 22, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arnold D. Loving mother of Roger, Lisa and John. Mother-in-law of Pat and Kathy. Dear sister of Herbert Scheinberg. Cherished grandmother of Amanda, Randall and Julia. Mayest Thou O God of Mercy, shelter her forever under the 
 MAMMANO--Suzanne (nee Pistilli). 61, on November 22, 2003 while traveling in Tibet. Beloved sister of Audrey Grieco; loving aunt of Regina, Matthew, Eric, Kevin, Craig and David; sister-in-law of Anthony, Marcia, Howard and Donald. Visiting hours, Friday, November 28, 6 to 9PM at Nagel Fune
 STEVENS--Marsha, died November 25, 2003. It is with inexpressible sadness we announce the sudden passing of the sweet, loving and vivacious woman with the warmest smile around, whose biggest joy in life was her family. Devoted wife of the late Henry P. Stevens, Marsha is survived by her lov
 Audrey B. Love, a philanthropist and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at her home in Key Biscayne, Fla. She was 100. Mrs. Love, who also had an apartment on Park Avenue in Manhattan, was the daughter of Edyth Guggenheim and Adm. Louis Josephthal, and was raised in Manhattan in a
 Marjorie Schlesinger Deane, who advised retail stores on fashion trends through an influential publication called the Tobe Report, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her family said. Until her death, Mrs
 BALLENGER -- Marie Eli zabeth ''Betty'' (nee Daley) of Flint, MI, age 94, died Sunday, November 23, at her home in Flint. Burial will be in Glenwood Cemetery, Flint. A memorial service will be held in a few months. Mrs. Ballenger was born in New York City on December 5, 1908, and grew up in
 BERNSTEIN -- Sylvia, in Washington, DC, on November 21. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Bernstein. Mother of Mary, Laura and Carl. We remember a friendship begun at Columbia Law School between Henry and Alfred that lasted through turbulent years with loyalty and understanding. We celebrate 
 LAURITANO--Natalie Ferazzi. Died on November 25, 2003 at her home in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late Amedeo Lauritano, a former NYC judge. Sister of Dr. Pat Ferazzi. Cherished mother of Lois Lauritano and Natalie Wassong. Devoted grandmother of Fletcher, John and Chris Daly, adoring gre
 SAWYER -- Michelle An drews. Of Sturgis, MI, died peacefully in her sleep on November 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Herb, and loving mother of Nina and Billy, cherished daughter of Randall and Winifred Andrews. Memorial service will be held on Tuesday, December 2nd at 4:30 at Grace Church in Ne
 SHEFF--Ruth, 76, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Mrs. Sheff is survived by her beloved companion of 28 years Joseph Ehrlich, loving sons, Michael (Honey), Andrew (Danielle), and Dr. Jonathan (Cathy), and grandchildren. Service will be held 1:00PM Friday, November 28, 2003 
 SOLOMON--Doris. On November 26, 2003. At age 81 after a brief illness. Adored wife of Max, cherished mother of Steven, Susan and the late Cindy. Beloved mother-in-law of Bess Miller and devoted grandmother of David and Matthew. Services Friday at 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Ams
 SPEAR--Irma. June 12, 1922November 20, 2003. A longtime resident of Redwood City, CA passed away due to complications from diabetes. She is survived by her husband Julius, children Joan and Larry, and grandchildren Katie, Julia, and Andrew. Irma will be deeply missed by friends and family. 
 Cleo Athenos Stark, who performed with the modern-dance companies of Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1920's and 30's, died on Nov. 9 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 95. Born in Greece, Ms. Stark came to the United States as a child. She trained at the Denishawn Scho
 Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was atten
 DANIELS -- Mary Edmond son. Died November 25, 2003 in Hightstown, NJ. Formerly of Bronxville, NY. Widow of Freeman J. Daniels. She is survived by her daughter Mary Daniels Lowry of New Canaan, CT, grandchildren Jane Lowry Miller and John Lowry III, and great-grandsons Sumner and Preston Mil
 DePAOLA--Anna Virginia, 88, of Boca Raton passed away on Thursday, November 27, 2003 at her residence. Mrs. DePaola worked at Doubleday Publishing House prior to her marriage. She moved to Boca Raton 30 years ago from Valley Stream, NY. She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Joseph, pr
 MAMMANO--Suzanne (nee Pistilli). 61, on November 22, 2003 while traveling in Tibet. Beloved sister of Audrey Grieco; loving aunt of Regina, Matthew, Eric, Kevin, Craig and David; sister-in-law of Anthony, Marcia, Howard and Donald. Visiting hours, Friday, November 28, 6 to 9PM at Nagel Fune
 POMERANTZ -- Rachel. On November 25, 2003, at age 72. Loving daughter of the late Pauline and Samuel Pomerantz and loving sister of the late Howard E. Pomerantz. She is survived and cherished by her brother Mike and his wife Ruth and her devoted nieces and nephews Jan Wilcox, Susan Pomerant
 SILBERLING--Anne, on November 26, 2003. Cherished sister to Diane and beloved aunt, great-aunt and greatgreat-aunt to so many in the Silberling family who mourn her passing. She loved her life in Greenwich Village, her fierce independence and her pursuit of all New York's cultural riches. S
 TALTON--Karen W., of Altadena, CA, and formerly of NY, died November 24 in Pasadena, CA. She was 57 and had been undergoing treatment for cancer. Survived by her husband, the Rt. Rev. Chester L. Talton, bishop suffragan of the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles; by their four children, Kathy,
 BRODSKY--Grace Ann (nee Duffy) of River Edge, NJ formerly of Manhattan on November 26, 2003. Mrs. Brodsky was a Registered Nurse with a Master's Degree from Georgetown University. She was Chief Executive and Owner of Medical Arts Center Hospital in New York City before retiring. She was for
 FERTEL--Ann (nee Portnoy) passed on November 27th at the age of 95 following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Irving Fertel, devoted mother of Bernice and the late Bernard Metz, Diane Fertel, Maxine and Elliot Simon. Cherished Nana of Charlene Metz, Lewis and Caroline Lilla, Beth Li
 MANHOFF--Mildred. Born in Brooklyn, died Monday, November 24, 2003. Renowned dancer, winner of many awards, she taught dance in Jamaica, WI, appearing in a couple of films dancing with the likes of Sean Connery. Mildred was partner with her husband, Harold, in Manhoff Studios decorating the
 ROSENTHAL--Hilda R. Died on Thanksgiving Day, surrounded by her loving family. She was a very special lady who will be missed by all who were lucky enough to know her. Beloved and devoted wife of Louis. Mother of Bernice and Adella. Sister of Helen Zirilstein and aunt of Joan Zirilstein. Se
 SMYTH--Lila Harkins, of Bronxville, NY. Died at home of a recurring brain tumor on November 26, 2003, in her eighth year of life. Cherished daughter of Dr. James and Clare Hollensteiner Smyth. Beloved sister of Luke and William Smyth. Granddaughter of Joseph and Patricia Smyth and of Robert
 TRACY--Rosemary P. nee Guiney. She was a former long time resident of Rye, NY. She died of natural causes on Wednesday, November 26th at The Village of Vestavia Hills in Birmingham, AL. She was 76. She was born on July 5, 1927 on the Staten Island Ferry to Timothy and May Guiney. She gradua
 BALLENGER -- Marie Eli zabeth ''Betty'' (nee Daley) of Flint, MI, age 94, died Sunday, November 23, at her home in Flint. Burial will be in Glenwood Cemetery, Flint. A memorial service will be held in a few months. Mrs. Ballenger was born in New York City on December 5, 1908, and grew up in
 BOER -- Michele Tortomasi aka Peggy. Devoted and beloved sister, aunt, cousin and friend. Cherished wife of the late John Boer. Peggy was born December 16, 1912. She passed November 22, 2003. Business representative in the education department of ILGWU. Retired in 1975. Lifelong union activ
 DeCICCO--Anne L. Longtime trade association executive for the travel goods and healthcare industries, died at her home, November 26, after a long battle with cancer. She was 53. Contact Kimble Funeral Home, Princeton, for memorial service arrangements.       
 EISEN--Sylvia Klingon. Age 80, of Great Neck, NY, on November 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Charles J. Eisen. Devoted mother of Amy Eisen Krupsky, Elizabeth H. Eisen and Claudia Eisen Flack. Cherished grandmother of Rachel and Lydia Krupsky, Samuel and Natalie Dworkin, and Nathaniel an
 GOLDSTEIN--Anita. A longtime New Rochelle resident, passed away Friday, November 28, 2003. She was 97. She was pre-deceased by her husband Harry Goldstein and survived by her daughter and son Marcia and Ted Streit, her grandchildren Susan & Howard Meltzer, Meredith & Steve Kleitzel and grea
 GRATZ--Donald. The Writers Room extends its sympathy to Board Member Roberta Brandes Gratz and to the friends and family of her husband, Donald Gratz.       
 HORN--Claire. Of Laguna Hills, CA, and formerly of New Rochelle, NY, died on November 28, 2003, at 88. Adored wife of Melvin Horn, beloved mother of Rita Horn Cassan and Margo Horn, loving sister of Sylvia Anfang and Rabbi Paul Steinberg, and loving aunt and greataunt. We will miss her swee
 JONAS--Phyllis J. Of Upper Brookville, L.I., on November 7, 2003. in her 80th year. Beloved wife of the late Frank D., also survived by nieces and nephews. Graveside service at Roslyn Cemetery, on December 1st at 11:30 A.M. Donations may be made to the charity of your choice. For informatio
 NIXON--Helen (McGraw), of Laguna Woods, CA; formerly of Wantagh, NY, on November 25. Beloved wife of the late Richard J. Nixon; devoted mother of Claire N. Ryan of Rockville Centre, NY, Richard T. Nixon, Esq. of San Diego, CA., Nora N. Derenze of Mission Viejo, CA, Daniel V. Nixon, Esq. of 
 ROSENBERG -- Helene J. (nee Cohn). Of Brooklyn and Chestnut Ridge, NY, died peacefully on November 27, after a courageous battle against esophageal cancer. A deep void will be felt in the lives of her family and friends. She is survived by her beloved husband Paul, loving son Edward (Estell
 RUBINI - REICHLIN -- Clarice. On November 28, 2003. Born in Vienna, Austria, March 1, 1912. Long time resident of New York City and Westchester; living in New Jersey for the last twelve years. Left Austria in the early 1930's to follow a theatrical career, which took her all over Europe. Wh
 SHAVER--Alice Crafts. Died peacefully November 26 in Oberlin, Ohio, age 89. Loved for her trenchant wit, her curiosity and her gift for friendship, she was a model of imaginative service to others. Wife of the late Chester Linn Shaver. Survived by a son, Phillip A. Shaver of Princeton, and 
 SMYTH--Lila Harkins, of Bronxville, NY. Died at home of a recurring brain tumor on November 26, 2003, in her eighth year of life. Cherished daughter of Dr. James and Clare Hollensteiner Smyth. Beloved sister of Luke and William Smyth. Granddaughter of Joseph and Patricia Smyth and of Robert
 STEVENS--Edith, age 89, on November 28, 2003. Mourned by her sons Howard (Diana) and Robert (Rhonda), grandchildren Rebecca (Dan Broden), Elizabeth and Mara Stevens, great-grandchildren Lila and Isabella Broden, and nieces, nephews and friends. May her memory be for a blessing.       
 SUSSMAN--Eva W. On November 27, 2003. Her family mourns our mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.       
 VERDERY -- Suzanne (Ald rich). 83, died November 20, 2003, in her home, Camden, ME. Born on November 8, 1920, Fall River, MA, the daughter of The Right Rev. Donald B. Aldrich and Frances (Learned) Aldrich. A graduate from Wellesley College (BA in History), and the wife of The Rev. John D. V
