 GOLDSTEIN -- Fannie (Kavesh). Of Canton, MA. formerly of New York, entered into rest October 29, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Frank E. Goldstein. Devoted mother of Harriet Finkelstein of Boston, MA. Loving aunt of many nieces and nephews. Graveside services at Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Glen
 PALMER--Ruth, 86. Of Wellington, FL, and formerly of Port Washington, NY, died October 30 after a long illness. Wife of the late Edward Palmer. She is survived by her children Elizabeth of Billerica, MA, Janet of Los Angeles, CA, William of Boca Raton, FL, her grandchildren Robert, James, J
 SALTON--Justine Augusta. The Horace Mann School is deeply saddened by the sudden death of Justine Salton '90. Her kindness, her sense of humor and thoughtfulness toward her friends and Horace Mann School are acknowledged by all. Our heartfelt condolences go to her husband, Raphael Allison, 
 WEINBERG--Helen Abeloff. Age 82, October 30, 2005. Wife of the late Stanley Eugene Weinberg, mother of the late Andrew Jay Weinberg, and survived by her children Donald Weinberg and Jayne Weinberg Stillman; mentor and mother-in-law to Nancy Weinberg, Elizabeth Knobler, M.D., and Eric Stillm
 RAFTER--Marionelise. Of Bay Shore, NY, formerly of West Islip, NY, died at home with her family on October 30, 2005. Beloved wife of James Philbin, devoted mother to her four daughters, Anne (AJ) Schmidt, Elizabeth Rafter Cibley, Kathryn Rafter and Susan Rafter. Loving grandmother to Cyndi 
 BECKHARD--Vera, 93, died in her home peacefully on November 1. A Holocaust survivor, she is survived by her cherished family; daughter Eva, her son and daughtersin-law Jerry, Ellie and Margo; her eight grandchildren, Susan, Ellen, Karen, Richard, Anita, Tom, Liz and Jane, and her nine great
 GORDON--Sylvia Gottlieb. Of Scarsdale and Pompano Beach, FL. Died November 1, 2005 at age 88. She was a successful business woman and artist. Beloved wife of the late Saul Gottlieb and Israel Gordon. Loving mother to Jerrold (June) Gottlieb and Marilyn (Frank) Levy. Cherished grandmother of
 SEMEL--Hilda L. On Nov. 1, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Simon. Devoted sister of the late Murray Levins, Nettie Levins, Anne Levine and Rose Levins. She is survived by her loving nephew David Levins, niece Maxine Hirsch and Dr. Joel Hirsch & great-nephew Jeremy Hirsch. Her love and kindne
 WENZEL--Alice Newman, on October 31, after many years of dealing with adult normal pressure hydrocephalis and emphysema. She was the center of life and love for husband John and daughters Emily and Abby. Grandmother of Bianca and Sophia, mother-in-law of Mark, sister of Rita Kolsby (Edwin).
 VAN BERGEN--Elizabeth ''Betty''--a remarkable woman and treasured aunt, cousin, friend and sister-died in Manhattan on Monday, October 31, at the age of 87. She was married to the late Charles Van Bergen and was the sister of the late Sally (King) Shull Fritsch. For many years Betty was act
 BOURNE--Beebe, on November 1, 2005. Beloved daughter of the late Saul and the late Bonnie Bourne. Survived by her loving Marco Berrocal. She was a renowned independent music publisher of Bourne Company. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Thursday, November 3,
 CARRAGEE--Edna M. (nee Burns) on November 2, 2005. Beloved wife of the late James M. Loving mother of James D. and Lenore Furlong (Robert). Dear sister of William, Lenore Kelleher and the late Katherine Coffey and Doris Marcus. Proud grandmother of Lenore, Laura and Mary Katherine. Visiting
 CERUSSI--Anne T. Died on November 2, 2005, after a short illness. She was 78 and lived in Rye, NY. She is survived by her sons, Michael A. Jr. of Greenwich, CT and Thomas F. of Darien, CT; daughters, Rosemary Ferrer of Greenwich, CT and Nancy A. McEnaney of Ridgefield, Ct; brothers John O'B
 ELLIOTT--John. Our heartfelt sympathy to our past Board and Council Chair, Eleanor Thomas Elliott on the passing of her beloved husband, John Elliott, Jr. The Foundation for Child Development, NY, NY       
 KENNY--Ann Selina (O'Hagan), 68. Of New York City, NY and Stuart, FL, formerly of Congers, NY died peacefully in her home on Monday, October 31, 2005. Born in NYC she was the second daughter of the late Philip and Rosina (Bradley) O'Hagan formerly of Buncrana, Donegal, Ireland. She is survi
 PEREIRA--Ana. We mourn the loss of Ana, esteemed colleague, dear friend, devoted Board member and committed advocate for the city's most vulnerable residentsthe mentally ill, the homeless, the elderly, the disabled and all those in need. A noted leader in the Washington Heights community, h
 WENZEL--Alice Newman, on October 31, after many years of dealing with adult normal pressure hydrocephalis and emphysema. She was the center of life and love for husband John and daughters Emily and Abby. Grandmother of Bianca and Sophia, mother-in-law of Mark, sister of Rita Kolsby (Edwin).
 VAN BERGEN -- Elizabeth. NCJW NY Section mourns the loss of our valued Honorary Vice President. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Natalie Katz, President Judith R. Golub, Exec. Dir.       
 BOURNE--Beebe, on November 1, 2005. Beloved daughter of the late Saul and the late Bonnie Bourne. Survived by her loving Marco Berrocal. She was a renowned independent music publisher of Bourne Company. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Thursday, November 3,
 BRADDOCK--Mary Alice, 91. Passed away on November 2, 2005. She was the beloved wife of the late Robert Louis Braddock. She is survived by her loving children, Richard Braddock of NYC, Peter Braddock of Kittery, ME and Jane Braddock of Joelton, TN, and daughters-in-law, Susan, Cynthia and Sh
 CERUSSI--Anne T. Died on November 2, 2005, after a short illness. She was 78 and lived in Rye, NY. She is survived by her sons, Michael A. Jr. of Greenwich, CT and Thomas F. of Darien, CT; daughters, Rosemary Ferrer of Greenwich, CT and Nancy A. McEnaney of Ridgefield, Ct; brothers John O'B
 FELDMAN--Elaine Zeitsoff. On November 3, 2005. Adored wife of Arnold. Cherished aunt to Liz, John & Christina. Beloved friend and cousin. Distinguished graphic designer. She and her zest for life will be missed by all. Funeral services Sunday November 6, 11:30 A.M., at the Riverside Memoria
 GORDON--Sylvia. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourn the loss of Sylvia Gordon, mother of valued friend of the Chapter, Jerry Gottlieb. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A. Zurack, Co-Chairs Lou-Elle
 HERSHMAN -- Frances S. Stackell. Beloved wife of the late Mendes Hershman. Survived and greatly mourned by daughters J. Wolf and D. Hershman, their sons and her grandchildren. For arrangements contact Riverside Chapels, 212-362-6600.       
 JENTIS--Felice L. On November 2, 2005. She was born April 9, 1966 in New York City, educated at the University of Michigan, worked in advertising, dynamic, witty, involved in many community activities. Leaves behind her loving husband Stuart and two adorable children, Alexa and Matthew, bel
 BRADY--Helena Real. Age 75 passed away Wednesday, November 2, 2005 at her home in St. Augustine, FL. Helena was an extraordinary person. She was a model of courage, decorum, integrity and honesty. The list of her academic awards and accomplishments is too long to recite here, but they range
 CAPELIN - Estelle. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, Estelle Capelin. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MICHAELS--Sylvia Mandelkern. 90, lately of Teresian House Nursing Home (Albany, NY), died on Thursday November 3, 2005. Sylvia was born on 29 December 1915, her family residing at 790 East 152nd Street in the Bronx. She was daughter of Mollie (Esther Malka) Gross (1891-1974) of Nahorce and 
 PEREIRA--Ana. The Heritage Health and Housing, Inc. Board of Directors and staff join the Pereira family in mourning the loss of our beloved Ana Pereira. She was 72. As Executive Director of Heritage Housing and Community Services--an organization she helped to found 28 years ago--Ms. Perei
 TEDESCO - Vittoria. 100 years and 6 months on November 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Flaviano. Loving and adored mother of Lucia and Anna Tedesco-Garone, and cherished mother-in-law of Vincent T. Garone. She was a loving aunt and greataunt to her family and her extended family: Robert, 
 YAROSH--Barbara. November 3. Beloved wife of Morrie. Mother to Bruce and Rob. Mother-in-law to Morgan. Grandmother to Zachary and Anna. She will be missed. Services will be private.       
 MARCUS - ELLENTUCK -Jeanne. Of Riverdale, died November 3. If you met her for only five minutes, you fell in love with her. Funeral at 1:30 PM, Sunday, November 6, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, NYC, 212-769-4400.       
 C. DeLores Tucker, an outspoken advocate for minority and women's rights who marched arm in arm with Martin Luther King Jr. at Selma, Ala., and campaigned against profanity-ridden rap music lyrics, died on Oct. 12 at a rehabilitation center in Philadelphia. She was 78. Peter Bailey,
 ENGEL--Henrietta ''Honey''. Devoted wife of the late Buddy Engel died peacefully at home on November 2, 2005 after a long and joyful life. She loved and was loved by her sons Donald and Peter, her grandchildren Chris (Lisa), Jeffrey (Carol), Elisa (Jim), Josh, Steven & Lauren and great gran
 GILMORE -- Georgette Martha. Went to her eternal reward on November 3, 2005. Most of her life was devoted to volunteer work. She was the daughter of Katherine Norton Gilmore and Michael J. Gilmore. She is survived by her sister, Lillian Larson, by her nephews, Robert John Larson and his wif
 GLATZER - Ruth. Passed away on November 4, 2005 in her 97th year. She was the beloved wife of the late Reuben Glatzer. She is survived by her sons, Sanford B. of Larchmont, NY, and Kenneth D. of Paramus, NJ, and daughtersin-law, Tania and Phyllis. She was the adoring and adored grandmother 
 HAUPT--Enid A. We mourn her passing. The Enid A. Haupt Glass Gardens provided a special accessible environment for disabled children and patients, giving serenity and beauty within its gardens. Recognized internationally, the Miracle on East 34th Street, an oasis of peace is the Garden of E
 KOHN--Rose. We are truly saddened at the passing of our dear friend, Rose Kohn. We extend our deepest sympathy to her loved ones. Terry and Rickey Rackow       
 LEHRER--Katherine Shack Brod. October 31, 2005, in Manhattan. Beloved wife of Milton Lehrer and the late Melvin Brod, and beloved sister of the late Helen Adelman and the late Sylvia Wein. She is survived by her husband, nephews and their children. Her strength, energy and enthusiasm will c
 PEREIRA--Ana. The Heritage Health and Housing, Inc. Board of Directors and staff join the Pereira family in mourning the loss of our beloved Ana Pereira. She was 72. As Executive Director of Heritage Housing and Community Services--an organization she helped to found 28 years ago--Ms. Perei
 SHAWL--Bernice Baruch. November 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Shawl. 100 fabulous years of kindness, love and quick intelligence--'B' will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Graveside service Monday, November 7, 10:30 AM, at Mt. Carmel Cemetery, 718-366-5900.        
 SKOLSKY--Mindy W., children's book author of the ''Hannah'' series, will be remembered for her empathetic heart and tender spirit. Wife for 52 years of the late Bernard, they raised two children and enjoyed life together on LI. A 1947 Albany alumna with a BA in English, Mindy loved books, p
 SOFFER--Abigail L. 30, of San Franciso, on November 2, 2005. Daughter of Richard L. and the late Madeline B. of Norwalk, CT. Sister of Philip H. of Berkeley. Contributions in her memory may be made to: Towne House, Bay Area Community Services, P.O. Box 2269, Oakland, CA 94621.       
 TEDESCO - Vittoria. 100 years and 6 months on November 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Flaviano. Loving and adored mother of Lucia and Anna Tedesco-Garone, and cherished mother-in-law of Vincent T. Garone. She was a loving aunt and greataunt to her family and her extended family: Robert, 
 TEMPLETON--Gale Heyden. Born June 20, 1922, Newark, New Jersey, died October 24, 2005 in Providence, R.I. after a long illness. Daughter of Florence & Edward Heyden. Wife of the late Bonner H. Templeton. Mother of Gale T. Scott, Bonner E. Templeton, William W. Templeton, John S. Templeton. 
 MARCUS - ELLENTUCK -Jeanne. Of Riverdale, died November 3. If you met her for only five minutes, you fell in love with her. Funeral at 1:30 PM, Sunday, November 6, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, NYC, 212-769-4400.       
 ARNOLD -- Ruth (nee Schwartz). Born December 26, 1921, in South Hampton, LI. Passed away at 84 years old on November 4, 2005, after a brief illness. Ruth is survived by her husband of 61 years, Joseph Arnold, of Manhattan, her son Richard of Los Angeles, CA, and daughter Deborah of Manhatta
 KOHN--Rose. We are truly saddened at the passing of our dear friend, Rose Kohn. We extend our deepest sympathy to her loved ones. Terry and Rickey Rackow       
 LEHRER--Katherine Shack Brod. October 31, 2005, in Manhattan. Beloved wife of Milton Lehrer and the late Melvin Brod, and beloved sister of the late Helen Adelman and the late Sylvia Wein. She is survived by her husband, nephews and their children. Her strength, energy and enthusiasm will c
 MOONEY--Julia M. In Boyton Beach, Florida, on November 1, 2005. Formerly of Merrick. Loving wife of 61 years to John J. Mooney. Dear daughter of the late Ellen and William O'Neill and sister of the late William O'Neill Jr. Also survived by her many cousins. Visiting Wednesday, November 9, 2
 SHAWL--Bernice Baruch. November 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Shawl. 100 fabulous years of kindness, love and quick intelligence--'B' will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Graveside service Monday, November 7, 10:30 AM, at Mt. Carmel Cemetery, 718-366-5900.       
 SOFFER--Abigail L. 30, of San Franciso, on November 2, 2005. Daughter of Richard L. and the late Madeline B. of Norwalk, CT. Sister of Philip H. of Berkeley. Contributions in her memory may be made to: Towne House, Bay Area Community Services, P.O. Box 2269, Oakland, CA 94621.       
 ACTON--Annie M., 88, November 5, 2005. Born in Castlebar, Co. Mayo IR, she was a resident of Norwood, Bx. for many years. Member of the League of the Sacred Heart at St. Margaret Mary Parish for 37 years. She worked at the United Nations as a Housekeeping Associate for 30 years. Daughter of
 ADLER--Frances. On November 5, 2005. Beloved wife of Milton Adler. Loving mother and mother-in-law, of Denise and Alan, Daniel and Robin. She was the cherished grandmother of Ben, Brooke, Ariel, Jared and Eric. We loved you very, very much. Services 12:45 at ''The Riverside''. 76th Street a
 HIRSH--Lenore ''Lenni'' on November 6. Daughter of Gertrude and Myron. Sister of Jerry. Artist. Taught art in the elementary schools for 34 years. After her retirement, she devoted herself to her paintings. A good friend to many. Services Wednesday 12PM at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1682 Ce
 JOSEPH - Edith. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, Edith Joseph. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KATZ--Sonia. On November 7, 2005. Daughter of the late Rachel and Max Katzman. Loving sister of Mattie Burger Livingston. Devoted aunt and ''second mother'' to Bonnie Cooperman, Dr. Howard Burger, Mark, Drew and Bruce Katzman & Mindi Katzman Dupille. Adoring aunt to many grand nieces and ne
 KLAUSNER--Adele. Devoted wife of the late Jack Klausner died at the age of 87, peacefully at home on November 6, after a long illness. Beloved mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister and aunt, she will be remembered by her kindness, generosity, tenacity, intelligence and wit. She is s
 KOHN--Rose. We are truly saddened at the passing of our dear friend, Rose Kohn. We extend our deepest sympathy to her loved ones. Terry and Rickey Rackow       
 LEWIS--Sylvia E. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our member, Sylvia Lewis. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Daniel Lewis, to her daughters, Elizabeth Gershon and Dr. Meliss
 MOONEY--Julia M. In Boyton Beach, Florida, on November 1, 2005. Formerly of Merrick. Loving wife of 61 years to John J. Mooney. Dear daughter of the late Ellen and William O'Neill and sister of the late William O'Neill Jr. Also survived by her many cousins. Visiting Wednesday, November 9, 2
 DUBIN--Ruth. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, passed away on November 7, 2005 at the age of 93 after a long illness. Her husband David died 14 years ago. She is survived by two children, Francine Lieberman, her husband Shelly, who in many ways was a real son to her, and a source of gre
 EISENSTEIN--Joan Buehler. An extraordinary woman of charm, grace and style died on November 8, 2005 after a long illness. For 50 years the treasured wife of Howard Eisenstein, the beloved mother of James and Susan, the cherished grandmother of Jenny, Katie and James Eisenstein and Nicole an
 HIRSH--Lenore ''Lenni'' on November 6. Daughter of Gertrude and Myron. Sister of Jerry. Artist. Taught art in the elementary schools for 34 years. After her retirement, she devoted herself to her paintings. A good friend to many. Services Wednesday 12PM at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1682 Ce
 KATZ--Sonia. On November 7, 2005. Daughter of the late Rachel and Max Katzman. Loving sister of Mattie Burger Livingston. Devoted aunt and ''second mother'' to Bonnie Cooperman, Dr. Howard Burger, Mark, Drew and Bruce Katzman & Mindi Katzman Dupille. Adoring aunt to many grand nieces and ne
 KAUFMAN--Ruth L. Beloved wife of Edward G. Kaufman. Mother of Edwina Friedman, Diane Weiss and Matthew P. Kaufman. Grandmother of Edward Friedman, Megan Weiss and Scott Weiss. $(6$)KAUFMAN--Ruth L. New York University College of Dentistry mourns the passing of Ruth L. Kaufman, beloved wife 
 MOONEY--Julia M. In Boyton Beach, Florida, on November 1, 2005. Formerly of Merrick. Loving wife of 61 years to John J. Mooney. Dear daughter of the late Ellen and William O'Neill and sister of the late William O'Neill Jr. Also survived by her many cousins. Visiting Wednesday, November 9, 2
 AGRESS--Sheila. The Samuel J. Tilden Democratic Club deeply mourns the passing of our dear Sheila, who volunteered her time for over three decades to the Democratic Party with love and enthusiasm. Sincere condolences to family and friends. Services Gramercy Chapel, 152 Second Avenue, Thursd
 COLITTI--Ines, 96. On November 9, 2005. Longtime resident of Millburn, NJ and partner in Millburn family fashion boutique, Eleganza/ Colitti. Survived by her three children, Vera Colitti, Millburn; Carlo Colitti, Brick, New Jersey; and Aldo Colitti, NYC; three grandchildren and six great-gr
 DUBIN--Ruth. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, passed away on November 7, 2005 at the age of 93 after a long illness. Her husband David died 14 years ago. She is survived by two children, Francine Lieberman, her husband Shelly, who in many ways was a real son to her, and a source of gre
 DUKEHART--Sybil Kane Williams. Died Tuesday at her home in Maryland. She was 87. Born Sybil Kane Williams, she attended the Chapin School and St. Timothy's School, in Catonsville, MD. Later, she sang in the Junior League Chorus and Octet, studied at the Diller Quaile School of Music and stu
 KNAPP--Harriet, Ph.D. on November 9, 2005. Loved and loving wife of Philip. Devoted mother of John, Joshua and Josiah, mother-in-law of Elisabeth and Grace, grandmother of Katherine and David, sister of Shirley Corey. Respected Professor of clinical psychology; accom plished researcher, not
 KROUSE--Carol. With deepest sympathy to Pamela, Michael and family on the passing of your mother, Carol Krouse. We hope your wonderful memories of her will sustain you and your family during this difficult time. Warmest regards, Louise Sunshine and all your associates at the Sunshine Group 
 LAGIN--Florence. November 8, 2005. Devoted wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Arlene, Fred, Sheri and Robin. Beloved by her husband, children, grandchildren, brother, sons-in-law and great-grandchild. She made each feel special and loved. She was a woman of great strength and dignity, even i
 LANGSAN--Lillian. On November 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Ira N. Langsan. Loving mother of Susan Black and her husband Eliot and Nancy Langsan and her husband Daniel K. Bernstein. Cherished grandmother of Ariana Ciri Bernstein. Funeral service Friday, November 11, 2005, 9:30 AM at Fra
 STERN--Marion Haas. Died peacefully at home on November 7, 2005 at age 102. She was greatly loved by and dedicated to her family and friends. She was the adored daughter of the late Addie and Benjamin Haas, the beloved wife of the late David I. Stern, the cherished sister of the late Richar
 KAPLAN--Yetta W. Died in her Florida home on November 10, 2005. Wife of the late Harry V. She leaves her daughter Linda Weis, son Gerald and his wife Jerilyn, grandchildren David, Adam, Joshua and Jonathan Weis and Evan, Joy and Dana Kaplan and four great-grandchildren. A longtime resident 
 LANGSAN--Lillian. On November 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Ira N. Langsan. Loving mother of Susan Black and her husband Eliot and Nancy Langsan and her husband Daniel K. Bernstein. Cherished grandmother of Ariana Ciri Bernstein. Funeral service Friday, November 11, 2005, 9:30 AM at Fra
 SALMANOWITZ--Betty (nee Pollack), 80, but young at heart, on November 9, 2005 in Naples, Florida. Beloved and patient wife of nearly 60 years of Harold; loving and devoted mother of Barbara, Richard, John and David; doting and proud grandmother of Rebecca, Josh, Michael, Jenny, Rachel and N
 TAYLOR--Beatrix (''Trixie'') Benjamin, of Oyster Bay, NY on November 10, 2005. Born Beatrix Chase Hoyt on July 9, 1920 in New York to Franklin Chase Hoyt, Presiding Justice of The Children's Court of New York, and Maud Rives Borland. Great granddaughter of Salmon P. Chase, Chief Justice of 
 Dorothy Wegman Raphaelson, who 80 years ago in chiffon, silk, feathers and lace floated across Jazz Age stages as a Ziegfeld Girl and went on to outlive all but one of her fellow dancers, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100. The cause was complications of a long-ter
 COHEN--Phyllis, 93. Formerly of Brooklyn died on Friday morning. She is survived by two sons, Peter C. Cohen of New York City and Dr. Laurence D. Cohen of Richmond, MA, sister Hannah Gornick of New York City, and four grandchildren. A graveside funeral service will be on Sunday at 12:00 Noo
 GREENWALD--Carrie Weisberg, died peacefully in the Bronx, NY at 95 years. A social worker and for more than 50 years, a teacher in New York City schools, she remained independent through her final days. She was a loving wife to Herbert Greenwald, loving mother to John and Mark, loving grand
 KILKENNY--Alice. Died November 11, 2005. Survived by her husband James and three children, Jay, Brian and Nancy. Wake at Glasscott Funeral Home, 102-03 Metropolitan Ave, Forest Hills, Monday, 2-4 PM, and 7-9 PM; 718-268-4466. Funeral Mass, Tuesday, 9:30 AM, Our Lady Queen of Martyrs R.C. Ch
 KNITTLE--Helen, 87. On November 10, 2005. Mourned by her husband Dr. Arthur Knittle; son Charles; granddaughter Sarah; and brother Maurice Lichtenstein. Services private.       
 MESHBERG--Julia. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Julia Meshberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Philip, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary  
 SELBST--Ronnie. (nee Appel), 52. Of West Orange, New Jersey, native of Brooklyn. Graduate of MIT and Rutgers Law School with highest honors from both. Funeral services November 13, 10:30 AM at Bnai Keshet, 99 South Fullerton Ave., Montclair, NJ. Interment at Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, L
 SILBERLING--Diane. On November 10, 2005. Cherished aunt, great aunt and great great aunt to so many in the Silberling family, who mourn her passing. A masterful wordsmith, Aunt Dina had a brilliant mind and intense passion for the arts, travel and New York City. Her impeccable taste and sop
 STUPELL--Leah. Our Mudgie died peacefully on November 11th at age 101 at home in NYC after a wonderful life of living and loving. Beloved wife of the late Edward, cherised mother of Ruth (and Bernie) Weinflash, adored and idolized grandmother of Jody (and Steve Konstadt), Jeff (and Elahna) 
 ALLISON--Anne. On October 29, 2005 at age 61. Loving daughter of Margaret King and the late Captain Leonard King. Devoted sister of Sylvia Tufariello and adoring aunt of Kara. Beloved wife of Stanley Poll. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Tuesday, Nove
 BEIMFOHR -- Joella J. (White). Of Bonita Springs, FL, and Pine Valley, NJ (formerly of Short Hills, NJ), passed away on November 10, 2005. She leaves her husband Edward G. Beimfohr, her daughter Catherine Beimfohr Wilson of Bloomington, IL, two sons, Laurence Beimfohr of Mendham, NJ, and Do
 BRANDT--Ida (nee Jacobson). Died Friday, November 11, 2005, in Hampshire Care in Leeds, MA. She was 90. A longtime resident of Riverdale, NY, she along with her husband, Stanley M. Brandt, an insurance executive, who predeceased her in 1995, later lived in Somers, NY. Funeral service Sunday
 EFRON--Lillian Westerman. Age 95, of Rockville, MD, died peacefully on November 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Efron, loving mother of Sheila (Steven) Efron, Taube and Richard (Kay), grandmother of Michelle and David (Somer) Taube, Amanda and Elenia Efron. Great grandmother of R
 GRUEN - Sylvia. Passed away November 11, age 97. She is survived by daughter Suzanne, son Arthur, daughter-in-law Mary Anne, granddaughters Dana and Gillian and great - granddaughter Lexi. Graveside service Monday, 11 am, Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ.       
 KILKENNY--Alice. Died November 11, 2005. Survived by her husband James and three children, Jay, Brian and Nancy. Wake at Glasscott Funeral Home, 102-03 Metropolitan Ave, Forest Hills, Monday, 2-4 PM, and 7-9 PM; 718-268-4466. Funeral Mass, Tuesday, 9:30 AM, Our Lady Queen of Martyrs R.C. Ch
 KNITTLE--Helen, 87. On November 10, 2005. Mourned by her husband Dr. Arthur Knittle; son Charles; granddaughter Sarah; and brother Maurice Lichtenstein. Services private.       
 KRACKOV--Estelle W. 101, died on Friday, November 11, 2005. Dearly loved by three generations: children Adele, Everett & Bobbie, grandchildren Barry, Beth & Jonathan, Pat, Mimi & Oren, Beth & Joe, and great-grandchildren Alicia, Gabriel & Kate. She shared her zest for life with nieces, neph
 SILBERLING--Diane. On November 10, 2005. Cherished aunt, great aunt and great great aunt to so many in the Silberling family, who mourn her passing. A masterful wordsmith, Aunt Dina had a brilliant mind and intense passion for the arts, travel and New York City. Her impeccable taste and sop
 SOKOL--Nancy (nee Berkowitz). 63, of Jupiter, FL, formerly of Huntington, NY, died November 11, 2005, of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Ezri, devoted mother of Bart (Jennifer), Jodi and Debra. Adoring grandmother to Dina and Leah. Special sister of Jackie Berkowitz (Stallman). Carin
 STUPELL--Leah. Our Mudgie died peacefully on November 11th at age 101 at home in NYC after a wonderful life of living and loving. Beloved wife of the late Edward, cherised mother of Ruth (and Bernie) Weinflash, adored and idolized grandmother of Jody (and Steve Konstadt), Jeff (and Elahna) 
 WEBSTER--Dorothy, 92. Died peacefully on Thursday, November 10, 2005, at Victoria Home in Ossining, New York. Dorothy was born in Little Neston, England, and came to America in 1967 with her youngest daughter JUne Webster Walden to join her son Barrie Webster (deceased 1992) and her oldest 
 WENGRAF--Gertrude. Born in Vienna, Austria on September 1, 1910, died at her home in New York City on November 10, 2005. Predeceased by her husband Dr. Fritz Wengraf. Beloved friend, your optimism and your love of art and nature greatly inspired us. You will be sadly missed. Madeline Buchsb
 ZIMMY--Rita K. (nee Kolber). 81, of Livingston, NJ, formerly of Boca Raton, FL, died peacefully on November 12, 2005. Loving wife to the late Sidney, mother, grandmother and friend. Survived by daughters Patty Schneider (Jeffrey) of Short Hills, and Jane Zimmy (Ron Neumann) of New York, and
 ROTHACKER--Katherine A. former VP of Casting for the William Morris Agency in NYC, died October 25. Born in Glen Cove, NY, she studied theatre at the University of Denver and the HB Studio prior to her career in casting. She is survived by her mother, one sister and three brothers. Donation
 BADER--Beatrice. She walks in beauty like the night. All my love, Ann       
 Ruth Clement Bond, an educator and civic leader who in the mid-1930's, in her first and only foray into quilt design, helped transform the American quilt from a utilitarian bedcovering into a work of avant-garde social commentary, died on Oct. 24 at her daughter's home in Manhattan. She was
 Catherine M. Pessino, a naturalist and educator who spent more than three decades introducing young people to wildlife in the most inhospitable of places -- the sidewalks, sewers and catchment basins of New York City -- died on Nov. 5 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was 
 ALLISON--Anne. On October 29, 2005 at age 61. Loving daughter of Margaret King and the late Captain Leonard King. Devoted sister of Sylvia Tufariello and adoring aunt of Kara. Beloved wife of Stanley Poll. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Tuesday, Nove
 BRANDT--Ida (nee Jacobson). Died Friday, November 11, 2005, in Hampshire Care in Leeds, MA. She was 90. A longtime resident of Riverdale, NY, she along with her husband, Stanley M. Brandt, an insurance executive, who predeceased her in 1995, later lived in Somers, NY. Burial Monday, Novembe
 FUSS--Ruth Kempner. On November 12, 2005, at age 98. Beloved wife of the late Albert, devoted mother of Carolyn, adoring grandmother of Alicia. Ruth was a loving sister, sister-in-law, aunt, friend and a dedicated teacher. A woman of valor, she will be deeply missed. Services Tuesday, Novem
 MEEHAN--Miriam Fitzsimmons. Died peacefully, surrounded by her family, November 14th. Born in Brooklyn September 23, 1912, she graduated from Convent of the Sacred Heart, NY. She was a New Yorker and had homes in New York City and East Hampton. Muzzy was loved by her children, their familie
 SOKOL--Nancy (nee Berkowitz). 63, of Jupiter, FL, formerly of Huntington, NY, died November 11, 2005, of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Ezri, devoted mother of Bart (Jennifer), Jodi and Debra. Adoring grandmother to Dina and Leah. Special sister of Jackie Berkowitz (Stallman). Carin
 ZIMBERG--Kristin R. May 18, 1965-November 11, 2005. Donations can be made to the Kristin Zimberg Cancer Research Fund, Tower Hematology Oncology, 9090 Wilshire Blvd., 2nd floor, Beverly Hills, CA 90211. An angel came into my life. She made me happy and gave me a beautiful child. She is now 
 DIMSTON - Blanche. Her birthday is remembered by those who miss her daily, deeply, and truly.       
 ELSPAS--Martha Soffer, May 18, 1924-November 11, 2005 Beloved wife, mother, sister, teacher and friend passed away peacefully in Palo Alto, California. She was a gifted Oboist who performed throughout the U.S.       
 FUSS--Ruth Kempner. On November 12, 2005, at age 98. Beloved wife of the late Albert, devoted mother of Carolyn, adoring grandmother of Alicia. Ruth was a loving sister, sister-in-law, aunt, friend and a dedicated teacher. A woman of valor, she will be deeply missed. Services Tuesday, Novem
 JORDAN--Josephine C. On November 13, 2005. We mourn the loss of an energetic, independent and life-affirming woman. Daughter of the late Hortense and Joseph Straus. Talented long-time executive with Clothiers Corporation. Devoted member of Temple Emanu-El, member of Opera Index. She is and 
 LOWEY--Rebecca. Born July 30, 1907, Wilmington, North Carolina. Died November 14, 2005, Floral Park, New York. Beloved mother of Stephen Lowey and Lydia Auslander; mother-in-law of Nita Lowey; grandmother of Amy Auslander, Todd Auslander, Kimberly Englert, Dana Lowey Luttway, Jacqueline Low
 MEEHAN--Miriam Fitzsimmons. Died peacefully, surrounded by her family, November 11th. Born in Brooklyn September 23, 1912, she graduated from Convent of the Sacred Heart, NY. She was a New Yorker and had homes in New York City and East Hampton. Muzzy was loved by her children, their familie
 OSCARD--Fifi. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the death of Fifi Oscard, esteemed member and friend, and a source of inspiration. Her wit and wisdom will be missed by all who admired her. Deepest sympathy is extended to her family and colleagues. Dede Thompson Bartlett President, Women
 DEUTSCHMEISTER -- Joan Iris. On November 13, 2005. Loving wife of the late Stephen, beloved mother of Jason (Beth) and Gary (Janet), adoring grandmother to Jessica, Chelsea, Brian and Amy; devoted sister to Elaine, Martin and Fred Cooper, beloved daughter of Gertrude and Louis Cooper. Servi
 JORDAN--Josephine C. On November 13, 2005. We mourn the loss of an energetic, independent and life-affirming woman. Daughter of the late Hortense and Joseph Straus. Talented long-time executive with Clothiers Corporation. Devoted member of Temple Emanu-El, member of Opera Index. She is and 
 LEWIS--Myrna Irene, 67. Died November 15, born in Fountain, Minnesota, she was an undergraduate at the University of Minnesota and received her Master's and Doctorate at the Columbia University School of Social Work. She was co-author of ''Aging and Mental Health,'' the first comprehensive 
 McCOWN--R. Gaynor. Educator, beloved wife and sister, friend, inspiration. ''Make the world a better place.'' Services Friday, November 18 at 2 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th St., NYC. A Celebration Toast to Gaynor follows immediately (approximately 3:15 p.m.) at t
 MEEHAN--Miriam. We at Brown Harris Stevens Residential Management, LLC extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Meehan family on the passing of Mrs. Meehan who served so well on the Board of Directors for her Cooperative Corporation. She was a woman of infinite grace and she will be greatly mis
 OSCARD--Fifi. The Mercantile Library of NY mourns the death of Fifi Oscard, esteemed member of its Board of Directors. Her concern for writers, her deep love of literature, her humor, intelligence and spirited embrace of life in this city will be much missed. She was an extraordinary human 
 ROTH--Gloria. The Board of Directors of The Nathaniel Wharton Fund wishes to extend its sympathy to the family of our esteemed Board Member Gloria Roth. She has been an extraordinary help in our research for many years. Her loss is felt by everyone both at The Wharton Fund and at Columbia U
 ZUPPARDI--Cora A. 89. Born October 1, 1916, Kingston, Jamaica, died November 12, 2005, Canoga Park, CA. Beloved wife of the late Frank Zuppardi. Cora was a generous, caring, self-sacrificing Christian woman. Cora grew up in Jamaica, raised a family in NY, enjoyed senior years in CA. A wonde
 CARROLL--Helen S., 76. Of Jackson Heights, NY died on November 12, 2005. An Artist and Teacher, she was born Helen Catherine Schrader in Huron, S.D. She attended Augustana College in Sioux Falls, S.D. and received her MA at NYU in New York City. She taught Art for 26 years at the Newtown Hi
 LAZARUS--Margaret. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our longtime member, Margaret Lazarus, wife of our late President, J. Louis Lazarus. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her entire famil
 MEEHAN--Miriam F. The Trustees of Freedom Institute are deeply saddened by the death of Miriam F. Meehan. We are profoundly grateful to her and her entire family for their loyal and generous support since the Institute's inception. She was a friend in every way. She will be sorely missed. N
 MORGENTHAU -- Jane, Wertheimer. Age 94 died November 14, 2005. Wife of Charles S. (deceased) and mother Kate (deceased). Jane, a graduate of Connecticut College was a lifetime avid reader of books, though born with greatly impaired eyesight. She worked at The Book Store in her hometown of S
 RENERT--Sidney. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Deborah Renert. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 ROTH--Gloria. The Board of Directors of The Nathaniel Wharton Fund wishes to extend its sympathy to the family of our esteemed Board Member Gloria Roth. She has been an extraordinary help in our research for many years. Her loss is felt by everyone both at The Wharton Fund and at Columbia U
 ROTHWAX--Vivian. On November 14. Graveside services will be held at Lakeside Memorial Park, Miami, FL. on November 18 at 11:15 A.M. For information contact her cousin Albert Binder.       
 SIEGEL--Laura. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, mourn the loss of Laura Siegel, sister of our esteemed Board member Kenneth Lazar and beloved wife of Stephen and mother of Shari, Jonathan and David. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to
 SILBERLING--Diane. The faculty and staff of the Charles C. Harris Skin and Cancer Unit, Department of Dermatology, NYU School of Medicine record with sadness the death of Diane Silberling. Diane served our department loyally for over 30 years working with our past three Chairmen. Her caring
 BASHICK--Ann. On October 25, Ann was hit by a car, and on Friday, November 11, 2005 she died. I lost a very good, generous, caring friend who was full of enthusiasm and joie de vivre. A courageous woman who still had a lot to live for, Ann had a lot of friends who like me will miss her. I a
 BUSH - BROWN -- Frances Wesselhoeft. On November 14, 2005 at home in Barnstable, MA. She was the widow of Albert Bush-Brown, former Chancellor of LIU. Mrs. BushBrown graduated from The Winsor School. Her accomplishments included a nursing career, founding the popular Hutton House Lectures a
 CREEL--Jane Haslip. Salisbury, CT. formerly of Sharon, Ct. died November 6. The widow of Dana S. Creel who was president of Rockefeller Brothers Fund. A graduate of Duke University; One of the first Systems Service employees at IBM Corporation; later Executive Assistant to the president of 
 DEGEL--Lillian. Of Manhattan. Died November 16, 2005. She survived her husband of 50 years, David Degel. She is survived by her sister Ruth Pacifico, and her children and their families: Fred Degel and Flo Barna, his sons Alan and Evan and wife Michelle and daughters Amanda and Arianna; Mar
 GOOS--Muriel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Muriel Goos. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Phillip, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 HARRISON--Jean (nee Sinsheimer), 86. Died at home on Wednesday after a long illness. Jean was born in Brooklyn to Walter & Myrtle Sinsheimer and was raised by Myrtle & Samuel Sinsheimer after the premature death of Walter. She graduated from Adelphi College (1940) and Queens College (M.S. E
 LEWIS--Myrna I., Ph.D. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work are deeply saddened at the untimely passing of our distinguished graduate and our beloved colleague, Myrna Lewis, '65 MS, '00 Ph.D. A member of the School's Advisory 
 MARBURG--Marlene. Born July 28, 1932, Brooklyn. Died November 15, 2005. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, daughter, sister, aunt, mother-in-law. We are all grateful that Marlene died peacefully and inspired that she was full of life and laughter to the end. She will be deeply missed.      
 McINERNEY--Mary T. At age 85 on November 16, 2005. Beloved sister of Denis McInerney and the late Sister Mary Justin. Reposing at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Friday. Mass of Christian Burial St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville on Saturday, November 19 at 
 MINARD--Julia Armstrong. The Board of Directors and staff of The Hope Program extend their deepest condolences to Elizabeth Bailey and her daughter Sara Minard on the death of Elizabeth's daughter, Julia. Such a warm, loving and promising person will be deeply missed by all. Richard W. Moor
 MISHNE--Judith. Died November 16. Author of 5 books, Professor at NYU School of Social Work and Practicing Therapist, won numerous awards. She leaves her dedicated, loving son Jonathan and many friends and colleagues. Services November 18, 1:30 PM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterd
 ROSENBERG--Sylvia S. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with great sadness the passing of Sylvia Rosenberg, class of 1958. A psychiatric social worker, member of the School's faculty, field work instructor and private p
 KIRSCHENBAUM--Carol, 67. Of New York, passed away November 8, 2005. Survived by her brother Dr. Ira Kirschenbaum of Boston. A memorial gathering in her honor will be held Friday, December 2, 2005, 11:00 A.M. -12:30 P.M. at Tavern on the Green, Central Park West at 66th St.       
 R. Gaynor McCown, the executive director of the Teaching Commission, a bipartisan advocacy group of leaders in business, government, philanthropy and education, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 45. Her death was announced by the group's founder
 FLOCH--Erna. Of Palm City and Tequesta, Florida died on October 16, 2005 at the age of 96 following a stroke. She was preceded in death by her husband, Alex Floch, and her brother, Ernst Vesely. She is survived by her sister, Ursula Globig of Carvoveiro, Portugal, and her cousin, Cecille Da
 NEWBERRY--Elsa Kingman. Of Pomperaug Woods, Southbury, CT. Widow of F. Stark Newberry died November 17 in her 96th year. Daughter of Dr. Russell B. and Ethel (Spencer) Kingman, she is survived by three children, Anne Newberry Pineda, Andrew Todd Newberry and Barbara Newberry Lindsley, numer
 ROSENTHAL -- Ann Edith, (nee Prince). Of Boca Raton, FL, died on November 15, 2005. She remained vital and beautiful until her passing at the age of 95. Beloved wife of the late Edward H. Rosenthal, M.D. and mother of the late Nelson I. Rosenthal. She is survived by her children Alan David 
 Dorothy Law Nolte, a writer and family counselor whose ubiquitous inspirational poem, ''Children Learn What They Live,'' was photocopied, circulated, anthologized and affixed to refrigerator doors worldwide for nearly two decades before she claimed rightful authorship of it in the 1970's, d
 GILBERT--Suzanne Stater. Songwriter, actress, died October 29, 2005, of cancer at hospital in New York City. Born January 29, 1924 in Portland, Oregon, Sue Gilbert grew up on the West Coast and graduated from the University of Oregon. She became a stewardess for Pan Am, flying to Africa, Eu
 GROLLMAN--Elaine. Of Bayside, N.Y. On November 17, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Loving mother of Jean. Talented actress. Member of SAG and AEA. Survived by brothers Alvin Feinstein and Martin Forrest. Her sense of humor, generosity and zest for life will be missed by many. Services 
 KALM--Florence, Dr. Died peacefully at home in Manhattan on October 18, 2005. Born in NYC, she graduated from Hunter College where she returned to complete an M.S. degree in Guidance and Counseling and a M.A. in Anthropology. In 1975, she received a Ph.D. in anthropology from CUNY Graduate 
 LEWIS--Myrna. We mourn the death of the beloved wife of our co-walker and dear friend, Bob Butler. Her significant contributions in so many areas have made, and will continue to make a difference. Our deepest sympathy to Bob, Alexandra and the many others who loved her. The Walking Group   
 MERCER--Carolyn R. May 16, 1927-October 31, 2005. ''Carrie'' died peacefully in her sleep. She is survived by her children, Christie Mercer Platt of Washington, DC, Fielding L. Mercer of Honolulu, HI and Donald W. Mercer, Jr. of Godfrey, IL as well as three grandchildren, Benjamin and Hilar
 MEYERSON - Beatrice, 81. Rockleigh, NJ. Devoted wife of the late Frank, beloved mother of Barbara (Boe) and George, adored grandmother of Lesley and Jill, who were her greatest joy. She was a medical records technician at Jewish Memorial and Columbia Presbyterian hospitals, administrator fo
 MORGENTHAU -- Jane, Wertheimer. Age 94 died November 14, 2005. Wife of Charles S. (deceased) and mother Kate (deceased). Jane, a graduate of Connecticut College was a lifetime avid reader of books, though born with greatly impaired eyesight. She worked at The Book Store in her hometown of S
 MORROW--Alison, 91. Died peacefully at home in New York City on October 26, after a short illness. She was born on April 15, 1914 in New York City to the late Dr. Albert Sidney Morrow and Marjorie Wyld Morrow. Growing up in Garden City, Long Island, Alison graduated from Cathedral School of
 NECHEMIAS--Jill Levingson. Loving and beloved wife of of Dr. Charles Nechemias, daughter of the late Alfred and Ruth Weinstock Levingson; devoted sister of Abby and Robert Levine and adoring aunt of their children David and Nancy and their daughter Lauren, and Peter and Lindsey and their so
 ROSENBERG--Sylvia On November 17, 2005, age 90. Much loved and cherished mother and grandmother, loving and devoted sister. Member of the 92nd St Y, Hadassah, Dorot, and Ansche Hesed. Survived by her daughter Martha Melk, son-in-law Ron, granddaughters Jessica and Courtney Melk, her sisters
 ROSENTHAL -- Ann Edith, (nee Prince). Of Boca Raton, FL, died on November 15, 2005. She remained vital and beautiful until her passing at the age of 95. Beloved wife of the late Edward H. Rosenthal, M.D. and mother of the late Nelson I. Rosenthal. She is survived by her children Alan David 
 HAMMERSTEIN -- Christina Lind. Passed away peacefully November 19th at home in Durham, NC surrounded by her three beautiful girls, Pat (Patricia Hammerstein Benner), Marty (Martha Hammerstein) and Dinie (Diana Hammerstein). Born February 4, 1919, Ms. Hammerstein was an actress and singer wh
 KIRSCHENBAUM--Carol, 67. Of New York, passed away November 8, 2005. Survived by her brother Dr. Ira Kirschenbaum of Boston. A memorial gathering in her honor will be held Friday, December 2, 2005, 11:00 A.M. -12:30 P.M. at Tavern on the Green, Central Park West at 66th St.       
 DAVIES--Garland Hunter, 76, of Watch Hill, RI, and formerly of Atlanta, on November 17, at the Westerly Hospital, after a short illness. Widow of Nicholas Edward Davies, M.D., whom she married in 1950. She was born in NYC, raised in Rock Hill, SC, and after graduating from National Cathedra
 GOLDENHEIM--Lewis, JD. 90, died November 19 after a long illness; beloved husband for 65 years of Ruth Saberski Goldenheim, Barnard College 1935; father of Sara Alperstein, Paul Goldenheim MD and the late Anne Creem; eight grandchildren and five great grandchildren; graduate of Townsend Har
 LAWRENCE -- Arlene (nee Horowitz). Of Rockville Centre, NY. Died peacefully at home surrounded by her family on November 18th. Beloved widow of Jerome. Devoted and much loved mother and mother-in-law. Deeply adored and cherished grandmother. Her spirit will live in our hearts forever. Funer
 NECHEMIAS--Jill Levingson. Loving and beloved wife of of Dr. Charles Nechemias, daughter of the late Alfred and Ruth Weinstock Levingson; devoted sister of Abby and Robert Levine and adoring aunt of their children David and Nancy and their daughter Lauren, and Peter and Lindsey and their so
 HAMMERSTEIN -- Christina Lind. Passed away peacefully November 19th at home in Durham, NC surrounded by her three beautiful girls, Pat (Patricia Hammerstein Benner), Marty (Martha Hammerstein) and Dinie (Diana Hammerstein). Born February 4, 1919, Ms. Hammerstein was an actress and singer wh
 SILVERMAN - Jeanette. Amazing yoga, tai chi and chi gong teacher, dancer, story teller and political activist, died peacefully on Friday, November 18, at 94 years of age. Her beloved husband Robert died in 1988. Jeanette was much loved by her daughters Ann Aviles and Rosalind Andrews, as we
 HEILBRON--Fritzie. On November 14, 2005 aged 95. Beloved and caring daughter, adored sister, beloved wife and devoted mother, loving grandmother and greatgrandmother, proud aunt and great-aunt, loving friend. Her steadfast support and devotion to her family was a great source of strength an
 KLINGER--Madalyn Irene, 80. Of Weston, Florida; formerly of East Meadow, New York; passed away on November 20. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. She is survived by daughters Lynne P. Salisbury, Dayle N. Foster and Cara F. Klinger; sons-in-law Brian R. Salisbury, Robert A. Foster and Thomas E
 LASHIN--Shirley (nee Haller). Of Lake Worth, FL. and Floral Park, N.Y; died November 17, 2005 at 8:05 PM. Widow of Hal Lashin, beloved mother of Kathie Lashin (Sheldon) Levin and Bonnie Lashin and Bonnie's significant other, Paul DiBiase and devoted companion of Sidney Katz. She remained vi
 MINARD--Julia Armstrong. Born March 5, 1985, died November 13, 2005. Loving and beloved daughter of Elizabeth Bailey and the late Everett Lawrence Minard. Sister of Sara Wallis Minard. A service in celebration of Julia's life will be held at Grace Church, Brooklyn Heights, on Saturday, Nove
 ROSENFELD--Regina (Weil). Of Manhasset, NY, on November 20, 2005. Survived by her loving husband of 59 years, Stanley, devoted children Lynda (Richard Weiss), Alan (Frances), dear brother Maurice (Jean) Weil, and many nieces, nephews and dear friends. Predeceased by sister Selma (Marc) Less
 SIEGEL--Ann L. The American Cancer Society mourns the passing of our dear and dedicated ''family member,'' volunteer, fund raiser and contributor, whose commitment and compassion to the fight against cancer for nearly 15 years were unmatched. Ann worked tirelessly to raise awareness about o
 BALLEN--Doris Miller. Died peacefully at her home on November 22, 2005 at the age of 83. Beloved wife of Frederick. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Marjorie and Eric Whitman, Edward and Sharon Ballen, Ram Ballen and Anne Black-Ballen and Kenneth Ballen. Devoted grandmother of Andrew Whit
 FEDDOES - Sadie. SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourns the passing of Sadie Feddoes, longtime civic leader and member of SUNY Downstate's University Council. A retired vice president of Citibank and a columnist for the Amsterdam News, Ms. Feddoes shared her expertise with numerous public and
 GREENSTONE--Marion. On Monday, November 21, 2005. Her death is a profound loss to her family: Cora Hahn; Elaine Greenstone; Adam Greenstone; Willa and Demetrius Papanikolas and their children; and the many friends who loved her dearly. Memorial services to be held at a later date.       
 GRINELL--Martha M. Died in the early morning of November 21, 2005. She was 87 years old. Ms. Grinell was a graduate of Lehman College and received her Master's in education from Columbia Teachers College. She taught grade school in New York City for 15 years. Ms. Grinell had a passion for l
 SIEGEL--Ann. The Board of Directors & the Medical Advisory Board of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the loss of Ann Siegel and extend deepest condolences to her devoted husband, Herb, and the entire family. She was beloved by all and will be greatly missed. Evelyn H. Lauder, Cha
 Ruth M. Siems, a retired home economist whose best-known innovation will make its appearance, welcome or otherwise, in millions of homes tomorrow, died on Nov. 13 at her home in Newburgh, Ind. Ms. Siems, an inventor of Stove Top stuffing, was 74. The cause was a heart attack, accord
 Sybil Shearer, an unpredictable individualist of modern dance, died on Thursday in Evanston, Ill. She was 93 and lived in Northbrook, Ill. The cause was a stroke, said Toby Nicholson of the Morrison-Shearer Foundation and Museum. A dancer of extraordinary agility, Ms. Sheare
 BALLEN--Doris Miller. Died peacefully at her home on November 22, 2005 at the age of 83. Beloved wife of Frederick. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Marjorie and Eric Whitman, Edward and Sharon Ballen, Ram Ballen and Anne Black-Ballen and Kenneth Ballen. Devoted grandmother of Andrew Whit
 KAY--Irene on November 22, 2005. Wife of the late David. Mother of Gene, Jerry and Bob. Also survived by her many loving grandchildren and great - grandchildren. Graveside services Friday 10:30 AM, Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ.       
 RUBIN--Shirley. On November 23, 2005. One week shy of her 90th birthday, having just celebrated 70 years of marriage to her beloved Danny. Cherished mother of Barbara Miller and Jerry Rubin. Loving grandmother of Jodi and David, Jonathan and Cathy, Jim and Jill, Jemma & Jason. Great grandmo
 SIEGEL--Ann L. The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center community mourns the death of Ann L. Siegel, a committed and caring friend and a thoughtful supporter of this institution for more than a quarter century. An inspiration to all who knew her, she touched countless lives with her enthu
 WINICK--Florence nee Shapiro. Of Manhattan, NY and Boca Raton, FL on November 22, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Philip, devoted mother of Eugene Winick and Ann Sendar, cherished mother-inlaw of Ina. One of eleven children she is survived by her sister, Ruth Raskin. Loving grandmother of Ja
 FRANK--Gloria. Died on Monday, November 21, 2005. Beloved mother of Laura Jeanne (Steven), beloved wife of Martin Schickler. Great friend to many, a humanitarian for many great causes and she will be deeply missed. Funeral services will be held Sunday, November 27 at 10 AM at ''The Riversid
 MAIZNER--Harriet. Age 94, youngest daughter of Rose and Herman Weiss. Born August 20, 1911, died peacefully early in the morning on November 21, 2005. She was both the irresistible force and the immovable object: when she tilted at windmills, the windmills fell. The youngest daughter of imm
 RUBIN--Shirley. On November 23, 2005. One week shy of her 90th birthday, having just celebrated 70 years of marriage to her beloved Danny. Cherished mother of Barbara Miller and Jerry Rubin. Loving grandmother of Jodi and David, Jonathan and Cathy, Jim and Jill, Jemma & Jason. Great grandmo
 SIEGEL--Ann L. The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center community mourns the death of Ann L. Siegel, a committed and caring friend and a thoughtful supporter of this institution for more than a quarter century. An inspiration to all who knew her, she touched countless lives with her enthu
 BERNSTEIN -- Joan Diane, Ed.D. Passed away on November 24, 2005. She was the beloved wife of Sidney Bernstein, daughter of Lillian Gold-Speigel and the late Samuel A. Gold, sister of Gerald Gold and adored aunt of Kevin and Andrea Gold. She graduated from Jamaica High School, Queens College
 CASCIEGNA--Jill P. You fought a valiant battle. We will always cherish the years of friendship. Rest in peace. You will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband Sal, her brother Jon Paton, and family. Jane and Michael Wind       
 GARDNER--Janet. Dearest friend of a lifetime--the days we thought would be without end are over too soon. We will cherish her memory forever, and give our deepest love always to Allan, Elisabeth and Jeffrey, Andrew and Kim, and the grandchildren. She was the best. Penny and Pete Costigan   
 HUTCHINGS--Heather MacMillan. 52, of Deerfield Beach, FL, passed away suddenly at her home on Sunday, November 20th, 2005. Beloved daughter of Charles Stewart MacMillan and Elizabeth Ann Davin, she was born July 26, 1953, in New York City, NY. She was a member of St. Gregory's Episcopal Chu
 PERLOFF - Pearl. Died Thanksgiving morning, Thursday, November 24, 2005. She wanted everyone to know that she had a wonderful life and was grateful for everything she received. Married in 1933 to Frank Perloff, she was immensely proud of and completely loyal to her husband. The couple enjoy
 SHEARER--Sybil. Renowned dancer, of Northbrook, Il. Died Thursday, November 17, 2005 at Evanston Hospital. She was 93. Arrangements private. A public memorial service is planned for early 2006 and will be publicized. Memorial donations may be made to the Morrison-Shearer Foundation, Box 227
 SIEGEL--Ann L., AKA''Grannie-Annie''. A quiet philanthropist and active supporter of numerous charitable organizations and a prominent member of the American Cancer Society, died peacefully on November 21, 2005 with her immediate family by her side in Manhattan. She was 74 years old. She wa
 WILSON -- Katherine Stern. Age 79, died on Friday, November 25, surrounded by members of her devoted family. Death was due to complications of cancer and came only after a long and courageous fight. She is survived by her husband Philip, two daughters: Lucy and Elizabeth Watson; three sons:
 MELNICK--Jacqueline. 80, cofounder of the Musicorda Summer String Festival, died on November 22, 2005 in South Hadley, MA, of complications from cancer. ''Jackie'' Melnick taught at The Juilliard School of Music, and at Mount Holyoke College, where she founded the Artist's Recital Series, s
 NIMITZ - McDANIEL -- Mary Louise, 1909--1995, was born in San Angelo, TX, to Mary Ella Holland & Louis Otto Nimitz. She was sister to Ernest, Susan, Theresa and Louis Nimitz and wife of Hugh Hines McDaniel. Louise lovingly raised her children in Demarest, NJ. She was a dedicated and caring 
 CASCIEGNA--Jill P. You fought a valiant battle. We will always cherish the years of friendship. Rest in peace. You will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband Sal, her brother Jon Paton, and family. Jane and Michael Wind       
 GARDNER--Janet H. On November 25, 2005, at age 68. Loving wife of Allan, whose bold proposal after a sixweek courtship led to 44 rich and rewarding years together, two children and six grandchildren. She was elegant, opinionated, extraordinarily well-read, witty in person and on paper, and 
 PERLOFF - Pearl. Died Thanksgiving morning, Thursday, November 24, 2005. She wanted everyone to know that she had a wonderful life and was grateful for everything she received. Married in 1933 to Frank Perloff, she was immensely proud of and completely loyal to her husband. The couple enjoy
 SULZBERGER--Maye (nee Dorfman). Died Saturday night, November 26th, with her daughter and grandson at her bedside. She is survived by her daughter, Susan Sulzberger Rolfe, grandson Myron Sulzberger (Mickey) Rolfe, granddaughters Joanne (Jody) Quinn and her husband Roger, and Penny R. Sulliv
 INNOCENTI--Fiammetta. Of Greenvale, NY, formerly of Florence, Italy, on November 16, 2005. Devoted wife of the Garden Architect, the late Umberto Innocenti. Memorial Mass 10:00 A.M., Wednesday, December 14 at St. Mary's R.C. Church, Roslyn Harbor, NY. Memorial to St. Mary's R.C. Church in h
 Constance Cummings, a versatile American actress who lived mostly in England and, in a more glamorous age of liners and ocean crossings, captivated audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a long stage, screen and television career, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Oxfordshire. She 
 BLACKWELL--Elsie Wilson, 93. Of Basking Ridge, New Jersey, formerly of Dorset, VT, Short Hills, NJ, and Point O'Woods, NY, on November 26, 2005. Daughter of Susie M. and Edward T. Wilson of Denver, CO, she graduated from Mt. Vernon Seminary where she later served as a trustee and Sarah Lawr
 COOK--Claire Rose Kehrwald. Died peacefully at home on November 23, 2005 at age 78. Author of ''Line by Line: How to Edit Your Own Writing'' (Houghton Mifflin/ MLA), editorial director for the Modern Language Association from 1976 until her retirement in 1992. She delighted in words, langua
 JUDSON--Carole S. Born March 22, 1935--died November 27, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur G. Judson, favorite daughter of the late Harry W. and Shirley Brenner. Loving mother of Robin Judson and Gerald B. Stoughton and Lisa JudsonSimon and Michael J. Simon. Adoring grandmother of Kate 
 KLEIN--Sarah (nee Foreman) on November 26, 2005. Cherished wife of Sandy, devoted mother of Melissa, Zachary, Jamie, Brandon and Austin. Beloved daughter of Irving and Libby Foreman & daughter-in-law of Bernard and Gloria Klein. She is loved by so many and will be deeply missed by all whose
 SMOLEN--Selma. Passed away peacefully at home on November 28, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur E. Smolen, adored mother of Ellen Smolen, cherished sister of Charlotte Davidoff, brother-in-law Ed Davidoff, and sister-in-law Fay Teviowitz, beloved aunt and dear friend to many. Her smile,
 SULZBERGER--Maye (nee Dorfman). Died Saturday night, November 26th, with her daughter and grandson at her bedside. She is survived by her daughter, Susan Sulzberger Rolfe, grandson Myron Sulzberger (Mickey) Rolfe, granddaughters Joanne (Jody) Quinn and her husband Roger, and Penny R. Sulliv
 WEINGART--Vivien. Age 59 years, on November 28, 2005 of leukemia. Preceded in death by her husband Laurence. Survived by her son Michael, her sister Gloria Merker, as well as aunts, nieces, nephews, cousins and in-laws. She loves her family, her friends, her cats & all the beauties of natur
 WILSON -- Katherine Stern. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Katherine (Kit) Wilson. She captured the essence of elegance and was a pillar of support for the Hospital. She exemplified the tradition
 GREENFIELD -- Harriet Copelin. Formerly of Hartland, VT and New York City, died Friday, November 25, 2005 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL, after a long illness. She was 82 years old. She is survived by her five children; Juliet G. Six & Faith G. Lewis both of Washington, DC, Gordon K. Greenfield 
 de ROTHSCHILD--Debra. It has been four years that Debra left us. We miss her sweet face and her love for living. Robert and Jacob       
 NIMITZ - McDANIEL -- Mary Louise, 1909--1995, was born in San Angelo, TX, to Mary Ella Holland & Louis Otto Nimitz. She was sister to Ernest, Susan, Theresa and Louis Nimitz and wife of Hugh Hines McDaniel. Louise lovingly raised her children in Demarest, NJ. She was a dedicated and caring 
 BLACKWELL--Elsie Wilson, 93. Of Basking Ridge, New Jersey, formerly of Dorset, VT, Short Hills, NJ, and Point O'Woods, NY, on November 26, 2005. Daughter of Susie M. and Edward T. Wilson of Denver, CO, she graduated from Mt. Vernon Seminary where she later served as a trustee and Sarah Lawr
 CHILL--Polly (Pinsker). Age 76. Beloved wife of the late Lester Blickstein, died peacefully November 25, 2005 after a long illness, surrounded by her loving family, at her son's home in Connecticut. A 1950 graduate from Swarthmore College, Polly enjoyed successful careers as a book editor a
 COOK--Claire Kehrwald. A brilliant editor and teacher whose devotion to clear thinking and clear writing inspired everyone who was lucky enough to work with her.       
 JUDSON--Carole S. Born March 22, 1935--died November 27, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur G. Judson, favorite daughter of the late Harry W. and Shirley Brenner. Loving mother of Robin Judson and Gerald B. Stoughton and Lisa JudsonSimon and Michael J. Simon. Adoring grandmother of Kate 
 LOUGHLIN--Dr. Winifred C. Born in NYC in 1913, graduated from McDonnell High School, City University of N.Y. (Brooklyn College) and Tufts University School of Medicine. After internship, residencies and a fellowship in NYC, she practiced Internal Medicine in Manhattan for almost 40 years wh
 SMOLEN--Selma. Passed away peacefully at home on November 28, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur E. Smolen, adored mother of Ellen Smolen, cherished sister of Charlotte Davidoff, brother-in-law Ed Davidoff, and sister-in-law Fay Teviowitz, beloved aunt and dear friend to many. Her smile,
 SULZBERGER--Maye (nee Dorfman). Died Saturday night, November 26th, with her daughter and grandson at her bedside. She is survived by her daughter, Susan Sulzberger Rolfe, grandson Myron Sulzberger (Mickey) Rolfe, granddaughters Joanne (Jody) Quinn and her husband Roger, and Penny R. Sulliv
 SYMONETTE--Lys. The staff and trustees of the Kurt Weill Foundation mourn the loss of beloved colleague Lys Symonette, who died on Sunday, November 27, at age 90. Musical assistant to Kurt Weill 1945-50, accompanist and advisor of Lotte Lenya 1962-1979, and Musical Executive of the Foundati
