 Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia. Like her husband
 Minerva Bernardino, a major force behind the founding of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women and a pioneer among Latin American feminists, died on Aug. 29 in the Dominican Republic. She was 91. Ms. Bernardino, who was appointed a representative of the Dominican Repu
 Eloise O. Spaeth, an art collector and booster of American art in particular, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 96. Over many years, Mrs. Spaeth and her husband, Otto L. Spaeth, an industrialist and a vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, put t
 Inge Aicher-Scholl, who inspired a generation of pacifists in post-World War II Germany by writing about an anti-Nazi youth movement and the killing of her brother and sister, died on Friday. She was 81, and suffered from cancer. Mrs. Aicher-Scholl moved millions of Germans toward n
 Tania Long, a war correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times who covered the London blitz and the Nuremburg trials, died Friday morning at her home in Ottawa. She was 85. After suffering from a series of illnesses, Ms. Long committed suicide, said Dr. Guy G
 Frances Hamerstrom, who discovered a passion for observing nature as a young girl in Boston and pursued that passion throughout a life spent mostly in Wisconsin, died on Aug. 29 at Edgewater Haven, a nursing home in Port Edwards, Wis. She was 90. An author, conservationist and wildl
 Virginia E. Rice, a former head of the department at Reader's Digest that selected books to excerpt or condense, died on Aug. 19 at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 53.  The cause of death was lung cancer, said Gary D. Yanker, her husband. Ms. Rice, who was known as Ginny, was born
 Nancy Topf, a choreographer, dancer and teacher, died last Wednesday in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Topf performed with many choreographers in the post-modernist and more traditional new modern-dance scene in New York City
 Helen Soreff, a painter of subtly inflected Minimalist abstractions, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. Mrs. Soreff was born in Brooklyn in 1926. She earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Georgia and studied at the Art Students League in 
 Berenice Lipson-Gruzen, a pianist with a long international career, died on Sept. 3 in Bad Wiessee, Germany. She was 73 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Lipson-Gruzen won notice with her visit to China in 1981, recording the Chopin Second Pia
 Sybil Harrington, a philanthropist from Amarillo, Tex., who besides supporting medical, education and arts charities was the largest individual donor to the Metropolitan Opera in the company's history, died on Thursday in Phoenix, where she kept a winter home. She was 89. Grand oper
 Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines. She was 82, and with Lee Hadley had formed the writing team kn
 Carol Hochberg, an investment banker who turned a diagnosis of breast cancer into a life of advocating for fellow sufferers, died of the disease on Wednesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 40. When Ms. Hochberg learned of the cancer, her first reaction was 
 Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman during political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died today at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. S
 Florence Griffith Joyner, the three-time gold medalist at the 1988 Summer Olympics who revolutionized women's sprinting with her searing speed and flamboyant fashion sense, died yesterday at her home in Mission Viejo, Calif. She was 38. Greg Foster, a former champion hurdler and a f
 Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman in the political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died on Sunday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapoli
 Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home
 Mary Frann, an actress best known for playing the wife of the comedian Bob Newhart in his second successful CBS series, ''Newhart,'' died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 55. The cause was not officially determined as of yesterday, though Ms. Frann, whom friends repo
 Betty Carter, one of jazz's great singers and a composer and arranger whose groups were virtual schools for generations of jazz musicians, died at home in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn on Saturday. She was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her friend Ora Harris.       
 They were the Thelma and Louise of Nazi Poland, and if Hollywood hasn't tumbled to their story, it may be because Blanca Rosenberg and Maria Rosenbloom had too many hair-raising escapes, too many improbable rescues -- and far too much unremitting horror in between -- for a single script to 
 Carol Kay, a professor of 18th-century literature and culture at the University of Pittsburgh, died on Sept. 12 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. She was 51. The cause was aplastic anemia, said her husband, Jonathan Arac. Ms. Kay wrote ''Political Constructions'' (Cornel
 Dr. Helen Winthrop Edey, a philanthropist and psychiatrist who was active in the field of women's reproductive health and rights, died on Sept. 15 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 86 and lived on Martha's Vineyard and in Manhattan. Dr. Edey was the former 
 Fiamma di San Giuliano Ferragamo, a designer who helped develop one of the most famous shoe labels in fashion, died on Monday at her home in Florence. She was 57. She died of cancer, said Ferrucio Ferragamo, her brother and chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia. For 
 Phyllis M. Rhinelander, a lineal descendant of two early mayors of New York City and of the Kip family, who gave their name to the Kips Bay region, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. A cousin, Adelaide Rhinelander Donaldson, said that death was the result of complicat
 Toni House, an author and a longtime Washington journalist who spent the last 16 years as the Supreme Court's public information officer, died here today of lung cancer, the Court announced. She was 55. A former president of the Washington Press Club and officer of other press organ
