 Judith F. Albert, a toy designer whose credits include the redesign of the Cabbage Patch doll for the mass market as well as other commercially successful dolls, died July 20 from breast cancer at her home in Mill Neck, N.Y. She was 59 years old. Her vinyl recast of the formerly all
 BASILEVSKY-Helen, 59. Of New York City and Rensselaerville, NY. Beloved daughter of Nathalie and sister of Peter, died July 31, 1998 after a long illness. An artist and teacher, she was the head of the Art Department at Nightingale Bamford School, highly respected and well loved by friends,
 DUMARESQ-Eleanor. We note with sorrow the passing of a loyal friend who, along with her husband, John, were among North Shore's early supporters and tireless workers. As a long-term volunteer, as an Auxiliary President, and the wife of a Board President ''Ellie'' was considered by all a lov
 GRUSS-Regina. Passed away peacefully on Thursday, July 30, at the age of 100. Beloved wife of the late Oscar Gruss, founder of Oscar Gruss & Son Incorporated, member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. Beloved and devoted mother of Emanuel Gruss, Elizabeth Goldberg and the late Olga Gruss 
 JANKOFF-Edith R. Loving wife of the late Bernard R. Jankoff. Beloved mother of Susan & Stephen Beatus, John and Ronnie Jankoff, & Judy Jankoff and Mel Herman. Devoted sister of Honey R. Beldoch. Adored grandmother of Stacey, Jennifer and Stuart. Passed away on July 30th at her home. She wil
 SHAPIRO-Rebecca (Mandel). On July 31 (Ab 8). Devoted wife of the late Rabbi Solomon K. Shapiro Z'l. Beloved mother of Eli, Vivian, Harold, Stanley, Abraham and Moshe. Cherished by eleven grandchildren. Also survived by sisters and brothers, sister-in-law and brothers-in-law, son-in-law and 
 Lillian Hoban, who illustrated or wrote more than 100 children's books, including those featuring a badger named Frances and a chimpanzee named Arthur, died on July 17 at New York and Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan and in Wilton, Conn. The caus
 AROND-Irma. Never was there a sister more beloved nor a sister-inlaw more endeared. Irma's uplifting spirit and love of life brought a sparkle of joy to everyone around her. She was resolute, courageous and undaunting. We will miss her so very much. Estelle and Nat Roth AROND-Irma. 
 BARONIO-Leonore. On July 25, 1998, in Boca Raton, FL. Wife of the late Franco A. Baronio. Sister of the late Naomi Zagor. Mother of the late Lisa Baronio. Mother of Richard Baronio of NYC. Retired landscape designer in Westchester. Former gardening columnist for Westchester Magazine, she cr
 BASILEVSKY-Helen, 59. Of New York City and Rensselaerville, NY. Beloved daughter of Nathalie and sister of Peter, died July 31, 1998 after a long illness. An artist and teacher, she was the head of the Art Department at Nightingale Bamford School, highly respected and well loved by friends,
 COVEY-Susan Singer, M.D. Age 55, of Fairfield, CT, died July 31, 1998, after a long and courageous fight against cancer. After graduating Vassar College, Downstate Medical Center, she did her medical training at Yale. As a radiation oncologist, Susan was an endless inspiration to her patien
 DWYER-Gertrude Kirk. On July 31, 1998. Cherished wife of the late James J. Dwyer, Commissioner of Public Safety, White Plains, NY. A graduate of the College of New Rochelle and NYU, Gertrude taught for 20 years in the White Plains school system. A woman of great faith, Gertrude passed her l
 FRIEDMAN-Muriel S. Died on Thursday, July 23, 1998. She was the beloved mother of Marcia Gaffner, Allen Friedman and Neil Friedman, loving grandmother of Aaron, Noah and Josh Gaffner and the adored mother-in-law of Jimmy Gaffner. A dedicated member of UJA, she was the recipient of the Golda
 GALLARD-Rosalind Wife of the late F. Edmund Gallard. Mother of Don Gallard of Denver, Colorado; Lorraine Gallard of Bethesda, MD; and Ken Gallard of Taos, New Mexico. Sister of Walter Abrams of Valley Stream, New York. Grandmother of Dewey Gallard and Solomon Kuckelman. Lifelong friend of R
 GRUSS-Regina. Passed away peacefully on Thursday, July 30, at the age of 100. Beloved wife of the late Oscar Gruss, founder of Oscar Gruss & Son Incorporated, member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. Beloved and devoted mother of Emanuel Gruss, Elizabeth Goldberg and the late Olga Gruss 
 JANKOFF-Edith R. Loving wife of the late Bernard R. Jankoff. Beloved mother of Susan & Stephen Beatus, John and Ronnie Jankoff, & Judy Jankoff and Mel Herman. Devoted sister of Honey R. Beldoch. Adored grandmother of Stacey, Jennifer and Stuart. Passed away on July 30th at her home. She wil
 MILGRAM-Grace Smelo. Age 83, on Thursday, July 23, 1998, at her home in Washington, DC. Grace Milgram, housing economist, social activist, and beloved mother of Betty Milgram of Silver Spring, MD, and Gene Milgram (Vicky Owens) of Annapolis, MD. Also survived by a host of other relatives an
 SCHLINGER-Shirlee K. She was a teacher and school administrator and an avid bridge and tennis player. Her loving, giving, kind, considerate spirit will live forever in the hearts of her family and many friends. We are sad for our loss, but feel great pride to have had our lives touched by h
 BAERTSCHI-Clara. 96, of Boynton Beach, FL, mother of Claire Parssinen of Westerly, RI, died July 12, 1998, at Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, FL. Mrs. Baertschi was born March 27, 1902, in Interlaken, Switzerland, the daughter of Karl and Anna Trachsel-Hofmann. She married Alfr
 GALMITZ-Ida, 101, died on August 1 peacefully surrounded by her loved ones. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Preceded in death by her husband, Aaron. Mother of Alice Meltzer and Arnold (Ellen). Grandmother of Ellen November (Leon), Curtis Meltzer (Rhonda), Paul and Ruth Galmitz. Greatgrandmother o
 GRUSS-Regina. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School mourns the passing of Regina Gruss, whose extraordinary grace and dignity inspired us all. She was friend and supporter of our School from its founding. To Riane Gruss, her daughter-in-law and our Vice President and cherished Board member, and
 PRICHEP-Annette. With great sorrow, we mourn the passing of our beloved mother, devoted grandmother, mother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, aunt and dearest friend. Having fought a two-year battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, she succumbed peacefully at home on Saturday, August 1. A role mod
 SMITH-Elizabeth ''Betsy.'' Of Northport, NY, on August 1, 1998. In her 74th year. Devoted wife of the late New York State Senator Bernard C. Smith, Sr. Loving mother of Bernard C. ''Chip,'' Jr. of Kings Park, NY, Terry of Wisconsin, Craig of Northport, NY, Tim of South Carolina and Linda of
 AROND-Irma. EMUNAH of America mourns the untimely passing of Irma Arond, beloved mother of Carol Finkel, our newly appointed Executive Director. Irma's friendship, devotion & spirit will be missed by all who knew her. Condolences to her husband Lionel, her daughters Carol and Miriam, & her 
 BACH-Mae Berlind, nee Miller, 97. Of Palm Beach. Her sons, Bruce, Roger, Alan and Robert wish to express their profound sorrow at the death of their beloved mother on August 2nd, 1998. In addition to her sons, she leaves fourteen grandchildren.       
 BERZIN-Shirley (Sadie), 98. Died August 2, peacefully. Preceded in dath by her husband Sol, dear mother of Caryl, Beverly, and the late Burton. Devoted grandmother of Stuart, Steven, Laurence, Martin, Barry, Scott, Ronald and Heidi. Adored great-grandmother of 12. Services at Sinai Chapel, 
 FLINN-Elizabeth. Of N.Y.C., on August 2nd, 1998, at the age of 90. Originally from Sidney, OH, she is survived by a brother, Edward G. Flinn, a niece, Margaret Bulle, and two nephews, Dr. Thomas E. Flinn and Robert R. Flinn. Viewing at Morehead - McKim - Gallaher Funeral Home, 424 W. 51st S
 GARRETT-Diana. Loving wife of the late John Garrett, died on July 30, 1998 after a short illness. Adored sister of Belina Popper and Stefi Saraga, devoted sister-inlaw of Olga Ruber; she will be missed by all who knew and loved her. A private funeral took place Sunday, August 2, 1998 at Fer
 JANKOFF-Edith. Edith Jankoff was devoted to our work. She combined a wholehearted commitment to Israel with a zest for life, bridge, earthy humor and sociability. To know Edith well was to love her. We join her family in mourning her loss and extend to them our deepest sympathy. We shall al
 LEWIS-Shari. The Covenant Foundation mourns the untimely passing of Shari Lewis, whose talents as a puppeteer and creator of award-winning children's television were universally known and applauded. Less well known was her deeply Jewish spirit. The daugher of a Rabbi, Shari used her enormou
 ORTNER-Sylvia, widow of Melvin Ortner, her high school sweetheart, and beloved daughter of Bess Berkowitz and Mort Clyne, was born on January 8, 1910 in Far Rockaway, New York. On August 3, 1998, surrounded by her loving family, she passed gracefully away in Key Biscayne, Florida. Throughou
 POLLE-Margaret (nee Wertheim) Loving wife of the late Stuart J. Polle, MD. Passed away in her 90th year on Sunday, Aug 2, 1998. Her sunny disposition will shine brightly in the memory of all who knew her. Services will be private.       
 Shari Lewis, who used her estimable skills as a ventriloquist and puppeteer to win 12 Emmy Awards and the hearts of parents and their children for four decades with a woolly hand puppet named Lamb Chop, died on Sunday at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 65 and lived in Be
 DATLOF-Claire (nee Zaslau). On August 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Samuel; dear mother of Dr. Steven (Diane) Datlof and Susan Datlof; sister of David Zaslau; devoted grandmother of Samuel Harrison Datlof, Nina Harrison Datlof, Andrew Malcolm Stream and Sara Elizabeth Stream. Relatives 
 JANKOFF-Edith. Edith Jankoff was devoted to our work. She combined a wholehearted commitment to Israel with a zest for life, bridge, earthy humor and sociability. To know Edith well was to love her. We join her family in mourning her loss and extend to them our deepest sympathy. We shall al
 MATTURRI-Eileen T. On August 3, 1998 of NYC. Wife of the late Dr. Joseph M. Matturri, devoted mother of Dr. Maureen Matturri Testa, daughter of the late Dr. John R. and Amelia Vordermeier Farrell, dear sister of John Farrell, grandmother of Paul and Nicholas Testa, mother-in-law of Dr. N. N
 MILLAR-Maria Leiper. Of Meriden and Hanover, N.H. died July 16, 1998 in Lebanon as the result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. She was born in Pennsylvania in 1906 and graduated with honors from Vassar College. She wrote advertising copy for Macy's in New York, and Bamberger
 SAGER-LLoyd. Beloved husband of the late Ruth, father of Lesley and her husband Les Michaelson, Bruce and Eugene Sager, grandfather of Nancy Beley, Matt and Torey Michaelson, great grandfather of Jordan Carlson, loving brother of Erna Rosen and Muriel Ross. Services on Thursday at 12 noon a
 Jean Fair Mitchell, a violin-playing, jig-dancing Scottish-born educator who guided the venerable Brearley School for girls from the white-glove 1940's through the armband 1960's without missing a beat, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 88 and had bee
 CANTOR-Phyllis, 63. Died August 5, 1998 after a fifteen year battle with breast cancer. Devoted and beloved wife of Richard, daughter of Molly (Fine) and the late David Fine, sister of Morris (Fine), mother of Mitchell, Julie (Peskoe), Daniel and Gail (Hoffman), & grandmother of 12. Mrs. Ca
 JANKOFF-Edith. Edith Jankoff was devoted to our work. She combined a wholehearted commitment to Israel with a zest for life, bridge, earthy humor and sociability. To know Edith well was to love her. We join her family in mourning her loss and extend to them our deepest sympathy. We shall al
 MITCHELL-Jean Fair. On August 5, 1998 at the age of 88. The Brearley School community mourns the loss of our former Head of the School who served from 1947-1975. She will be remembered with respect and admiration for her wisdom and devotion to Brearley. In keeping with Ms. Mitchell's wishes
 RACER-Lillian. Age 84. Passed away on August 1, 1998, after an extended illness. Devoted wife of Max Racer, beloved mother of Marilyn Bartlett. Funeral held August 4. Burial at New Montefiore Cemetery, L.I. Loved by all who knew her. Hers was the passing of a great soul. Memorial contributi
 SOUTHWORTH-Kim. The Citibank family mourns the loss of Kim Southworth, who passed away on Monday, August 3, 1998. Kim will be greatly missed for her courage, counsel, and intellect.       
 OBLEDO-Eva M. Sadly missed and lovingly remembered forever in our hearts. Jesse and all her family.       
 MITCHELL-Jean Fair. On August 5, 1998 at the age of 88. The Brearley School community mourns the loss of our former Head of the School who served from 1947-1975. She will be remembered with respect and admiration for her wisdom and devotion to Brearley. In keeping with Miss Mitchell's wishe
 RACER-Lillian. Age 84. Passed away on August 1, 1998, after an extended illness. Devoted wife of Max Racer, beloved mother of Marilyn Bartlett. Funeral held August 4. Burial at New Montefiore Cemetery, L.I. Loved by all who knew her. Hers was the passing of a great soul. Memorial contributi
 RIVKIN-Dorothy Carnegie. Of Old Westbury, New York, died on Thursday, August 6th at the age of 85 after a long illness. She was the Chairman of the Board of Dale Carnegie Training. She was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma where she spent her early life & attended the University of Oklahoma. She was 
 STEIN-Ann S. On August 5, 1998. Of Cupertino, Ca., formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Wife of the late Richard J. Stein, mother of Diane Greenberg and Sally Stein, grandmother of Sarah and Sophie Greenberg; Barnard College '36; Research Assistant, New York Medical College and Margaret Sanger Resear
 Phyllis Deveneau Michelfelder, who devoted her life to the rehabilitation of women with the alcohol and drug problems that she had overcome, died on July 18 at Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. She was 76 and lived in nearby Gulfstream. The cause was heart failure af
 Dorothy Carnegie Rivkin, an author and instructor who developed the Dale Carnegie Training company into a worldwide operation, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 85 and lived in Forest Hills Gardens, Queens. Mrs. Carnegie Rivkin, a native of Tulsa, Okla., was chairwoman 
 NERETIN-Claire (nee Schechtman). On August 7, 1998. Beloved mother of Buff, Shaari, and Josh. Grandmother of Miles Satchell. Sister of Sheila and Bernie Manheimer. Aunt of Susan, Kenny and Lisa Manheimer, and Nikki and Scott Neretin. Special friend to young campers since 1965, concluding wi
 RACER-Lillian. Age 84. Passed away on August 1, 1998, after an extended illness. Devoted wife of Max Racer, beloved mother of Marilyn Bartlett. Funeral held August 4. Burial at New Montefiore Cemetery, L.I. Loved by all who knew her. Hers was the passing of a great soul. Memorial contributi
 GARY-Trudy Biglow. 75, on August 2, 1998, at home in Charleston, SC, of emphysema. Born in South Orange, NJ and formerly of Wilson Point, South Norwalk, CT, she was the widow of John Edson Gary. Surviving are three daughters Elizabeth Young, Ann Oliver and Joan Brown, a sister Elizabeth Can
 LITTLE-Dorothy Fay (Bunny). At age 93, on August 5th, in Hanover, New Hampshire. Wife of the late Dwight R. Little, survived by daughters Ann Rubenstein of Santa Fe, New Mexico; Katharine King of Washington, D.C.; and Margaret Warren of Brunswick, Maine; six grandchildren and one great-gran
 MATTURRI-Eileen T. On August 3, 1998 of NYC. Wife of the late Dr. Joseph M. Matturri, devoted mother of Dr. Maureen Matturri Testa, daughter of the late Dr. John R. and Amelia Vordermeier Farrell, dear sister of John Farrell, grandmother of Paul and Nicholas Testa, mother-in-law of Dr. N. N
 NIGRO-Edith. On August 3, 1998, beloved wife of the late Dr. Anthony Nigro, loving mother of June Rose Alfieri & Dr. Richard Nigro, adoring grandmother of six and great grandmother of two. Private funeral services were held. Contributions in her memory may be made to The Anthony and Edith N
 RIVKIN-Dorothy Carnegie. Of Old Westbury, New York, died on Thursday, August 6th at the age of 85 after a long illness. She was the Chairman of the Board of Dale Carnegie Training. She was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma where she spent her early life & attended the University of Oklahoma. She was 
 SHINROD-Fannie. 95. Devoted wife of the late Nat. Adored mother of Isabel Mitchell and the late Stanley Shinrod, and mother-inlaw of Irene. Cherished grandmother of Robin and David Schamberg, Beth and Edward Kipperman, Michael and Lynne Mitchell, Peter Mitchell and Edward Shinrod. Dear grea
 STEIN-Ann S. On August 5, 1998. Of Cupertino, Ca., formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Wife of the late Richard J. Stein, mother of Diane Greenberg and Sally Stein, grandmother of Sarah and Sophie Greenberg; Barnard College '36; Research Assistant, New York Medical College and Margaret Sanger Resear
 WEIST-Louise Stursberg. On August 1, after a long illness in Vero Beach, FL. She was born in New York City, February 25, 1918 and attended the Nightingale Bamford School and Dana Hall. She graduated from Bennington College in 1940. Louise was the daughter of Marie-Louise Vietor Stursberg an
 WETZLER-Hedwig Seewald, 95, died July 27 after a long illness endured with courage. Widow of Max Wetzler. Sister of the late Ruth Messer, Lothar, Fred and Hans Seewald. Survived by sons, Elliot, Gerald, Peter and Leonard; brother Ernest J. Seewald; sister Edith S. Ratner. She will be dearly
 GIRARDOT-Claire Lily. Her son Christopher, her mother Mamie are inconsolable over their loss of Claire Lily Girardot on August 9, 1996. She was the niece of Lily Pons. Please think of her affectionately. Once again, we would like to express our thanks and appreciation to her doctor and the 
 Elizabeth Karlin, a Wisconsin doctor, advocate of women's rights and head of a clinic in Madison that was a target of abortion foes, died on July 27 at her home in nearby Arena. She was 54. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed a few months ago, her family said. A native New
 BRUCKHEIM-Beulah L. Of Binghamton, NY. On August 8, 1998 in her 93rd year. Loving wife of the late Dr. Stanley H. Bruckheim, Sr. Beloved mother of Dr. Stanley and Janine Bruckheim and Jane B. and Bob Steinhardt. Adored grandmother of five and great-grandmother of eight. A graveside service 
 SAFFER-Sylvia. 82 of Pompano Beach, FL. Passed away on August 9, 1998. She is survived by her loving children: Sheila Bloom and her fiance Gil Rosenberg, and Arlene Greenstein and her husband Alan. She is also survived by 11 cherished grandchildren, 16 greatgrandchildren, beloved sister Mur
 SHINROD-Fannie. 95. Devoted wife of the late Nat. Adored mother of Isabel Mitchell and the late Stanley Shinrod, and mother-inlaw of Irene. Cherished grandmother of Robin and David Schamberg, Beth and Edward Kipperman, Michael and Lynne Mitchell, Peter Mitchell and Edward Shinrod. Dear grea
 SLADKUS-Charlotte D. On August 8, 1998, in her 90th year. Loving wife of the late Samuel H. Sladkus. Devoted mother to son Harvey, daughter-in-law Frances and grandsons Steven and Jeffrey. Sister of Ethel Ulberg and the late M. Berger and E. Reiss. Proud and dedicated member of AWVS during 
 LIPSETT-Anita Wise. We cherish the memory of our beloved Anita. Today would have been her 80th birthday. We will miss her forever. Her family       
 DELAFIELD-Anna S. (Howe), 85. In Plymouth, of Lexington, August 9. Wife of the late Joseph L. Delafield. She is survived by 3 children, Hester L. (Delafield) Keller of Winchester, MA, Joseph L. Delafield III of So. Portland, ME, and Lawrence H. Delafield of Hyde Park, NY. She also leaves 3 
 EIDELSON-Feiga. The entire family of the East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourns the passing of the loving and devoted wife or our distinguished Cantor Emeritus Joseph Eidelson. She was a paragon of warmth, sensitivity, virtue and integrity. She will be sorely missed by us all. We exte
 KAMEN-Phyllis. Much beloved wife of Paul, passed away on August 9. Born in Brooklyn, she taught in the New York City Public Schools for 20 years. Nothing gave her more pleasure than her large extended family including four children Leslie, Randy, Jeffrey and Scott; and eight grandchildren E
 LUZ-Jean (nee Osmun). Age 69. Of Bedminster Township, NJ. On Sunday, August 9, 1998. Wife of Carl J., Jr. Mother of Rebecca Storniolo of Dennisport, MA and the late Carl J. III. Sister of Alva Rock of Bay Shore, NY and Helen Murdock of Harwich, MA. She is also survived by 2 grandchildren. F
 RALPH-Ephraim. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Dr. Esther Sabban on the loss of her father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 RIVKIN-Dorothy Carnegie. The Board of Trustees of Old Westbury Gardens wishes to express its gratitude to Dorothy Carnegie Rivkin for her sensitive appreciation of both its beauty and its expanding needs to serve an ever-growing public. We make note of her love of gardens, especially in the
 ROSENBERG-Lillian H. Died on August 9, 1998 at the age of 103. Remembered teacher of the IGC classes of PS 99, Brooklyn, New York. Beloved aunt of Joan Reisfeld, Renee Greer, great aunt of four, great great aunt of six. She led a happy, useful life and was loved by all. Services at Riversid
 SHULOF-Elna K. On August 9, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Suzanne Frank, Cathryn S. Aison and Joan S. Abrahams, especially loving grandmother of Courtney, Patrick, Elizabeth and Jon. Dear sister of Harry Kahn. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 STINSON-Kaye Leonard, 47. Vice President, Washington Affairs, The Mead Corporation. Died on Sunday, August 8, 1998 at her home in Bethesda, MD. The cause of death was ovarian cancer, first diagnosed in 1990. She was born in Burmingham, Alabama and came to Washington, DC in 1975. She is surv
 WINTMAN-Sylvia. Congregation Orach Chaim profoundly mourns the passing of Sylvia Wintman during the shiva period of her late husband, Abraham Wintman. She was the mother of our dedicated Trustee, Sandra and Gary Welkes, Kenny Wintman, and the grandmother of Allison Helena. May the family be
 ASTERBLOOM-Mildred. On August 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving sister of Rena Grenell and the late Jules Fox. Dear aunt of Judy, David, Jennifer and Jessica Greenberg, Jeffrey, Sharon and Andrew Grenell, Kenneth, Dean and Roger Fox. She will be mnissed by her many friends an
 CLARK-Louise F. Died peacefully at home, August 8 in her 90th year. Loving wife of the late F. Douglas Clark and sister of the late John Campbell Henry. Devoted mother of Louise Smith, Katharine DeLong, Anne Koester. Grandmother of seven & great-grandmother of one. Memorial service Friday A
 COFFEE-Margaret Jennings, 77. Of Red Bank, New Jersey, formerly of Seneca Falls, N.Y., on August 10, 1998. Born in N.Y.C. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph D. Coffee, Jr. for 56 yrs. Loving and loved mother of James Jennings, Mary Joyce Dies, Barbara Grace Wolf, Matthew Brian, Margaret Eri
 GUMBINNER-Roslyn Singer. On August 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Devoted mother of the late Mark N. Finston, and the late Joan Finston. Survived by her daughter-in-law Beth Waters Finston and her adoring granddaughters Betsy and Deborah Finston. Dearest sister of Hortense Ginsber
 KOCH - WESER - Gertrude (nee Dinkelacker), 92 years, on August 10, 1998 in Pleasantville, New York. Survived by her husband Reimer Koch-Weser, her daughter Gisela O'Brien, her son Dr. Peter KochWeser. Five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. Funeral arrangements were private. For inf
 LAINER-Sara. The JESNA Board and Staff mourns the passing of President Mark Lainer's mother, Sara Lainer. A remarkable woman, passionate Jew, and loving spouse, mother and grandmother, she will be missed by all who knew her. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the Lainer family.       
 LITTLE - Dorothy Fay. The Trustees, alumni and friends of Greenwood mourn the passing of Dorothy Fay Little and extend their deepest sympathy to her family. Her profound understanding of children and music remains the soul of Greenwood.       
 SHEPHERD-Nancy T. (Post). Age 70. Of New York City; formerly of Sharon, MA. August 7, 1998. Former wife of the late Earl Shepherd of N.Y., Co. and Ca.; daughter of the late Edward and Eleanor Post of Sharon; niece of the late Mary Swayne of Sharon; sister & sisterin-law of Irving and Betty 
 SOMAN-Beatrice A. Died suddenly in her home August 10, 1998. Wife of the late William J. Soman. She is survived by her daughters Wendy Zoccola of Newton, N.J. and Deborah Faber of New York City and her sons-in-law George Baumann and Alan Faber. Loving grandmother to Michael and Lindsay; sis
 TOBEY-Susan Clark. In New York on August 9th, 1998, while under hospice care for cancer, surrounded by loving family and friends. She was Director of international Development at The Conference Board and previously worked for Citibank and Bankers' Trust. She is survived by her mother, Mary 
 WEST-Yvette. Beloved mother, of Daniel and Robert, sister of Lila Malsman, grandmother and greatgrandmother. Certified Financial Planner, retired Vice President/Director of Portfolio Review, Salomon Smith Barney. Established the B. Rivkin Garden Fund at the National Yiddish Book Center. Mem
 BUCK-Athena J. Of Manhattan, on Wednesday, August 12th, age 90. Beloved cousin of Maxwell Cobert & Anne Phillips. Graveside service at Menorah Cemetery, Clifton, New Jersey on Thursday at 1 PM. She will be sorely missed. For information Jewish Memorial Chapel, Passaic, New Jersey.       
 COX-Oden McKay, 73. Of Weekapaug, RI & Short Hills, New Jersey. Died Friday, Aug. 7 at the Westerly Hospital, Westerly, R.I. She was the widow of the late Joseph E. Cox, Jr. She is survived by her son Ned Cox of London and her daughter Deni Cox Catullo of Weekapaug as well as 2 grandsons Ro
 GUMBINNER-Roslyn Singer. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our friend and benefactress, Roslyn Singer Gumbinner. She was a beloved sister of the late Herbert M. Singer, who was a member of Beth Israel's Board of Trustees for more than 40 y
 JOHNSON - Pauline. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend, Pauline Johnson was born Jan. 3, 1917, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and died on August 10, 1998, in New York City. She is survived by her two loving daughters and sons-in-law, Leslie Radziemski and Michael Radziemski of New York City 
 KLEIN-Dorothy. Beloved wife of Herbert. Devoted mother of Laura Melamed, Jason and Kimberly Melamed. Loving daughter of Helen Bloom. Cherished grandmother of Erik, Megan, and Matthew. Services 10 AM, Thursday, at ''Gutterman's Inc.,'' 175 Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centre, LI. In lieu of flo
 MULLEN-Esther, Ph.D. The New York State Psychological Association is deeply saddened by the death of a respected friend and accomplished professional, Past President Esther Mullen, Ph.D. We extend our condolences to her beloved sister Blossom Robins, her brother-in-law Jerry Robins and her 
 KERR-M. Dorothea, MD. 8/13/183/20/98. Friends, colleagues and patients of Dr. Kerr were deeply saddened to learn of her passing on 3/20/98. Dr. Kerr began her medical career as a nurse almost sixty years ago, continued her education to earn her M.D. from Columbia University, and became the 
 Rose Blumkin, who founded the Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1937, helped her son and grandchildren build it into the nation's largest home furnishings store and continued selling carpet there well past her 100th birthday, died on Friday in Omaha. She was 104. Mrs. B, as she was fondly 
 ABB-Shirley. Much beloved wife of Marvin, passed away on August 12, 1998. Cherished and devoted mother of Toni and Wayne and loving grandmother of Sarah. She will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Services Sunday 12 noon at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station
 AGABIAN-Louise Sophie. May 22, 1924 to August 7, 1998. Model, Artist, Interior Designer, Real Estate Broker and Business Woman. Her tremendous loss is mourned by beloved daughters Nina, Lori and Lisa; grandsons Samuel & Tristan; granddaughter Allegra; her many friends and extended family. S
 CODDINGTON-Audrey Wheaton of New Providence, NJ, on August 11, 1998. Wife of the late Lyman Badgley Coddington, Jr. Beloved mother of Janet Halliday of Juno Beach, FL; Lyman Badgley Coddington, III of Washington, DC; Joyce Harrington of New Canaan, CT; Joan Boillod, of Summit, NJ; and Ann M
 GREENBERG-Rebecca. Died on August 5, at home in Springfield, Mass., after a brief illness. Age 86. A lifelong social justice activist and teacher, she joined the Peace Corps at age 80. She was the widow of Bernard Greenberg, a negotiator for the United Steelworkers of America. She is surviv
 ISRAEL-Nathalie Pearl. On August 13, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jack Pearl and David Israel. Loving stepmother of Robert, Larry and the late Oscar Israel. Dear cousin of Bernice Jupiter and Roberta Fuchs. Cherished stepgrandmother of Andrea, Anthony, Ronald, Tristan, Michael, and James 
 MINKIN-Sarah Rieur. On August 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted stepmother of Dr. Vera F. Minkin. Also survived by her very loving family and many friends. Service Sunday, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her memory to Hadassah, 50 
 MULLEN-Esther. The Interdisciplinary Forum on Mental Health and Family Law mourns the death of our distinguished member. She will be sorely missed. Sandra W. Jacobson       
 ROSENBERG-Louise Marie, 63. Died peacefully Tuesday in her Wilton home, surrounded by family. With husband Peter, she transformed their business Vallin Galleries into a renowned Asian art gallery. Louise was an inspirational, nurturing mother and friend. She created a loving family & gracio
 SHOSKES-Pearl. On August 13, 1998. Beloved wife of Michael Shoskes. Loving mother of Janet Eschen and the late Jeffrey Shoskes. Adoring grandmother of Rebecca & Mark Eschen. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Sunday, at 9:45 AM. Interment private. Cont
 SMITH-Ray nee Blum in her 82nd year on August 12, 1998 of North Miami Beach, FL. Formerly of Cedarhurst, NY. Beloved wife of the late Al. Loving & devoted mother of Terry and Bob Bloom, Marilyn & Ed Brown, Dr. Arden and Susan Smith. Cherished grandmother of Nancy Lipman, Natalie and Phil Mu
 WILSON-Elizabeth de C. of Manchester, Vermont and New York City died in her home in Manchester on Sunday, August 9th, after a brief illness. She was born in Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico November 20, 1908, daughter of Carlos Cravioto and Louise Ryals (Arkell). A beloved wife, mother, grandmother
 ADLER-Dorothy (nee Gardner). On Thursday, August 13, 1998, of Hollywood, Florida. Formerly of Merrick, New York. Loving wife of the late Nathan Adler. Adored and cherished mother of Myra Levy, Stan and Barbra Adler, and Allen and Frances Adler. Loving and devoted grandmother of Amy Levy, Je
 GLEICH-CAMHY-Jean. On August 13, 1998. Beloved mother of Barbara Selter & Sandra KreschHagler. Dear sister of Beatrice Sussman. Adoring grandmother of Sara, Jessica, Zoe and Aimmee. Great grandmother of Sadie. Loving mother-in-law of Sam and Mike. Service Sunday 12:15PM at ''The Riverside''
 GUMBINNER-Roslyn Singer. The Jewish Repertory Theatre's Board of Directors and staff acknowledges with sadness the passing of our friend and benefactress, Roslyn Singer Gumbinner. To the Rinston, Ginsberg and Singer families and all who loved her, we offer our heartfelt condolences.       
 ISRAEL-Nathalie Pearl. On August 13, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jack Pearl and David Israel. Loving stepmother of Robert, Larry and the late Oscar Israel. Dear cousin of Bernice Jupiter and Roberta Fuchs. Cherished stepgrandmother of Andrea, Anthony, Ronald, Tristan, Michael, and James 
 LEFF-Lillian Wiesen. Peacefully and bravely, in her 99th year. Our beloved ''Mama Cookie'' was a true humanitarian, supporter of many needy people, including artists, dancers, physical therapists, and a source of strength to her family and friends. She was the daughter of Max and Rose Wiese
 MINKIN-Sarah Rieur. Age 100. Four generations of the Minkin and Rieur families celebrate the life of Sarah Minkin. Loved and admired for her abundant energy and caring for others, she was an ardent advocate and exemplar of family loyalty, a healthy life style, professional responsibility an
 SHOSKES-Pearl. On August 13, 1998. Beloved wife of Michael Shoskes. Loving mother of Janet Eschen and the late Jeffrey Shoskes. Adoring grandmother of Rebecca & Mark Eschen. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Sunday, at 9:45 AM. Interment private. Cont
 SUNDERMANN-Edith D. Of East Quogue, Long Island, formerly of Pound Ridge, New York on August 13, 1998. Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Eric and Kurt. Friends may call at the Oelker & Cox Funeral Home on Sunday 24PM and 7-9 PM. Funeral service Monday, 11 AM at the St. Mark's Episco
 Anna Jane Harrison, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Mount Holyoke College and the first woman to be president of the 150,000-member American Chemical Society, died on Aug. 8 at Holyoke Hospital. She was 85 and lived in nearby South Hadley, Mass. The cause was a stroke, the col
 ADLER-Dorothy (nee Gardner) On Thursday, August 13, 1998, of Hollywood, Florida. Formerly of Merrick, New York. Loving wife of the late Nathan Adler. Adored and cherished mother of Myra Levy, Stan and Barbra Adler, and Allen and Frances Adler. Loving and devoted grandmother of Amy Levy, Jes
 FELDMAN-Estelle Green Age 74, passed away in Jerusalem, August 10, 1998. Beloved wife of Joshua (Sidney); mother of Judi, Naomi and Barbara; mother-in-law of Lewis, Gabi and Clive; grandmother of Edan, Doni, Ainat, Michal, Eran, Rebecca, Adi, Ben, Rachel and Leor. Estelle was an esteemed ea
 LEFF-Lillian Wiesen. Peacefully and bravely, in her 99th year. Our beloved ''Mama Cookie'' was a true humanitarian, supporter of many needy people, including artists, dancers, physical therapists, and a source of strength to her family and friends. She was the daughter of Max and Rose Wiese
 MARTIN-Catherine E. Of Summit, NJ on August 14, 1998, wife of the late George R.; mother of Margaret M. Cahill and George J. Martin both of Summmit, NJ and the late Kathleen Clancey. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 5 greatgrandchildren. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered on Tu
 MICKANS-Viktorija. Dentist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, artist, Latvian patriot, died peacefully on August 11 in her 81st year. Born March 25, 1917, in Nautreni, Latvia, the daughter of Joachims and Helena (Mugins) Mickans. Her life and work reflected the fate of her beloved country. As a 
 MORGAN-Michelle. 50. (nee Yublon) Born Sept 23rd, 1947 died Aug 3, 1998 of cancer in Virginia. Shelly is survived by her husband Richard Morgan and her step-daughter Letitia Morgan. A treasured sister, niece, cousin and friend. She will be missed by all who knew her. Rest in peace, sweet co
 ROSENBERG-Louise Marie, 63. Died peacefully Tuesday in her Wilton home, surrounded by family. With husband Peter, she transformed their business Vallin Galleries into a renowned Asian art gallery. Louise was an inspirational, nurturing mother and friend. She created a loving family & gracio
 STURSBERG-Babette L. Passed away quietly at her home in Bernardsville, New Jersey, Thursday, August 6th, 1998. She was born on October 24th, 1914 in New York City & attended the Emma Willard School. She was the daughter of Edith Downey and Albert H. F. Stursberg. Three brothers, Laird Sturs
 UGELOW-Martha (Mae) (nee Tannenbaum), 87, beloved wife of the late Philip Ugelow, died Saturday, August 8, 1998 at home in Bloomfield, CT. Born in Poland, she immigrated to New York City where she resided until moving to Connecticut in 1997. She was the mother of Judith Ugelow Satlof, of We
 BOROFF-Dorothy P. Age 93, of Central Park West, died Saturday in Kent, CT. She was the widow of Dr. Daniel Boroff. Mrs. Boroff was born September 25, 1904, in New York City, daughter of the late Joseph and Anna Protter. She was a retired attorney. She is survived by two granddaughters, Moll
 MEHLER-Elizabeth T. ''Betty'' (nee Trachtman). On August 14, 1998. Of Philadelphia, PA. Devoted wife of the late Max (Judge, Appellate Division, New Jersey Superior Court). Formerly of West Orange, NJ. Beloved mother of Cynthia Adler and loving motherin-law of Harry R. Adler of Bridgeton, N
 MILHAUD - ARSLANIAN - Melvie. A writer and film director, died Thursday, August 13, 1998, at the age of 45, in New York City, following a long illness. She was born in Beirut, Lebanon, to Melancthon and Violette Arslanian, and raised in Antwerp, Belgium, where she had her primary education.
 ROSENBERG-Louise Marie, 63. Died peacefully Tuesday in her Wilton home, surrounded by family. With husband Peter, she transformed their business Vallin Galleries into a renowned Asian art gallery. Louise was an inspirational, nurturing mother and friend. She created a loving family & gracio
 SMITH-Claire M. Age 64, retired literary agent, after a four-year battle with lung cancer. She is survived by her husband Robert Kimmel Smith; her daughter Heidi M. Smith of San Francisco; her son Roger K. Smith of New York City; her sister Harriet M. Levine of Orangeburg, NY. In lieu of fl
 JOVANOVIC-Cornelia Judith (Judy) Laurentia. In Windsor, Ontario (formerly of Bailey's Bay, Bermuda). On August 14, 1998 in her 40th year. Beloved wife of George and loving mother of Thea and Nicholas. She is survived by her loving mother Johanna Thyssen, brother Peter, sister Laurie Jacobs,
 VAN DYNE-Gladys. Passed away on August 17, 1998. Beloved mother of Martin, Walter and Paul. Loving mother-in-law of Phyllis and Zobine. Sister to Rose Tager. Dearest grandmother to Joshua, Matthew, Sonia, Alex, David, Steven, Natasha, Goldie and Josef. She was predeceased by her husband Rob
 WARD-Edith. On Aug. 16, of Mahwah, NJ formerly of New York City and Palisades, NY. Formerly with The Center on Transnational Corporations of The United Nations. Survived by her husband, Ben and her brother, Gerald Halpern. Services are today, 11:30am, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 
 Aline Mosby, a former correspondent for United Press International who reported from Hollywood, Paris, Beijing and points between for more than 50 years, died on Aug. 7 at Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. She was 76 and had moved from Europe to the Silvergate retirement community
 Dorothy West, ''the Kid'' of the  Harlem Renaissance circle of writers and artists in the 1920's who was rediscovered seven decades later when her novel ''The Wedding'' was published and became a best-seller,  died on Sunday night at New England Medical Center in Boston. She was 91 and a lo
 COHN-Evelyn Frances, Esq. August 16, 1998. Of New York City. Daughter of Bernard and Solita Cohn. Sister of Dr. Edward Cohn and Dr. Lillian Cohn. Sister-in-law of Bonnie Cohn and Larry Jackson. Aunt of Aaron and Emily Cohn, Benjamin, Henry, Philip, and Richard Jackson. Relatives and friends
 GLICK-Sylvia. The administrators and staff of the Advanced Center for Psychotherapy mourn the passing of our friend, Sylvia Glick. For nearly 40 years, her devotion to the clinic and her high standards set a mark for all of us to match. The clinic will be a lesser place without her. We exte
 HENLEY-Dr. Martha Katherine Reese Henley, 91, died Monday, August 17, at Scotland Memorial Hospital. A memorial service will be at 11 A.M. Thursday at Scotia Village. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Thomas L. Henley; a son, Dr. Thomas L. Henley, Jr. of Solana Beach, CA; a daughter, Kath
 LEFF-Lillian. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our friend and generous supporter Lillian Leff, who was a recipient of the ADL Haym Solomon Award in 1984 for her dedication and humanitarianism. We extend our deepest condolences to her children Ruth and Jerome A. Siegel, Juani
 SALTZMAN-Yetta. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Lillian Grufferman and Stanley Saltzman. Cherished grandmother of Emily Marino, Howard Grufferman, Michael, Samantha and Steven Saltzman and great-grandmother of Michael Marino, and Elizabeth and Sarah Grufferman. Unselfish m
 Claire M. Smith, a literary agent and a former president of Harold Ober Associates, a Manhattan literary agency, died on Saturday at her home in South Prospect Park, Brooklyn. She was 64. The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the agency said. Mrs. Smith, whose clients
 CONNELL-Mildred King. On August 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. John F. Connell. Dear mother of Patricia Connell Shakow of Kensington, MD, Peter J. Connell of Chevy Chase, MD, Sister Kathleen Connell, RSHM and Kevin M. Connell of New York. Another son, John F. Connell, Jr., died in 1988. S
 EDWARDS-Alice Howland. Age 84 on July 8, 1998. Singer of opera & art song & vocal coach. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Edwards, cellist. Loving mother of Kate and Harriet Edwards. Grandmother of Victoria Kirk. Devoted sister of Harriet Flynn and Thielo Howland. Interment private. Memorial
 FOX-Elizabeth G. Of Wellfleet, Ma. Formerly of Caldwell, N.J. on August 18, 1998. Wife of Edwin Fox and cherished mother of Matthew, Luke and Margaret and loving grandmother of Levon and Spencer. Sister of Thomas Greenman and Claire Heth. Private family service. A Memorial Service to be ann
 TOMEO-Antoinette E. Tenth anniversary. I remember Mama, a very pretty face, a warm smile, an easy laugh and her love of song will always be forever in my heart. Vincent       
 Corinne Greenberg Levin, an advocate for children and the director of the independent Teacher Center in New Haven since its founding 27 years ago, died on July 27 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. A New Haven resident, she was 68. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed in Sep
 Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming 
 ALBERT-Rose Elaine. On August 20, at age 72. Beloved wife of Stanley, cherished mother of Diane Roskind and husband Robert, and Robert Albert and wife Janet. Loving grandmother of Dina Walsh and husband David, Scott Roskind and wife Cindy, and Andrea and Bradley Albert. Loving great-grandmo
 CONNELL-Mildred King. On August 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. John F. Connell. Dear mother of Patricia Connell Shakow of Kensington, MD, Peter J. Connell of Chevy Chase, MD, Sister Kathleen Connell, RSHM and Kevin M. Connell of New York. Another son, John F. Connell, Jr., died in 1988. S
 EDGAR-Mary Jane. 80. Of Kennett Square, Pa. Died Wednesday August 12, 1998 at Kendal at Longwood, Kennett Square, Pa. Wife of the late Robert W. Edgar, Sr. Born in Chicago, Ill., daughter of the late Harry and Laurene Rutledge Hoppe. She had lived in Kennett Square since 1992 coming from Ne
 ZELMANOVICH-Julia, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Dr. Julia Zelmanovich, 26, as a result of a tragic accident. Dr. Zelmanovich, an outstanding resident physician in the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health, was admired and respected for her dedicati
 ANTOKOLETZ - Adeline. (nee Namm). Predeceased by her loving husband Hyman. Mother of Judith Berk and Saul Anton. Died peaceably in her 93 year, August 19, 1998.       
 ARONOWITZ-Helen King. Beloved wife of the late Jack Aronowitz, labor organizer and a founder of the Chefs and Cooks Union, Local 89, passed on peacefully August 19, 1998 at age 92. Loving mother of Stanley and Jerry and their wives Pamela and Sheila. Devoted grandmother, greatgrandmother. S
 BRANDY-Belle. Aka Brandy Case, a 1950's art model died of Cancer at age 65 on August 17, 1998. She was cremated on August 19, 1998 and her ashes disbursed per her wishes. She leaves her beloved nephew Barton, niece EllenHorowitz, two grandnieces Stacy and Stephanie of Staten Island; niece a
 FIDALGO-Norma. 1/1/46-8/2/98. In memory of a fleeting shimmer in the pages of Harper's Bazaar and Vogue, as transient as the clouds and for the term of her days, a talented and compassionate woman, has passed away. The understanding of beauty was her sensitive emotional choice, goodness was
 GADEN-Eileen T. In Santa Barbara, CA, formerly of New York City, on August 14, 1998. She had a distinguished career in food preparation and photography and as a cookbook author. She was an Editor of Gourmet Magazine and a partner in Seranne & Gaden, a food public relations and advertising f
 HAMILTON-Sarah ''Betty.'' Died August 21, 1998 in Southbury, CT. Daughter of the late Norbert B. Hamilton and the late Helen Gibney Hamilton Rountree. Cousin of Jane Taylor and friend of Audrey E. Goode, both of Southbury, CT. Retired assistant headmistress of the Nightingale Bamford School
 LaRUE-Helen Claire Robison. Of New Canaan, CT, died peacefully on August 18, in Stamford, CT. The daughter of Rulon Y. and Claire Noall Robison, she was born in Brookline, MA, on September 13, 1918. Surviving relatives include her husband Jan LaRue, two daughters Chari Isaacs of Wellesley, 
 ROTH-Kathryn. On August 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Loving mother of Lesley Grashow and Stephanie Brussell. Dear grandmother of Zoe Klein, Zachary Grashow, Jeremy and Josh Brussell. Services Sunday, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St. ROTH - Kathryn. Congr
 SILLS-Mona Juliber. 75. Bill's dear wife died August 3, 1998. Her deep understanding of music made her playing and accompanying highly sought after. Her piano students were devoted. Her family, daughters Anita, Barbara and Gina, sister Violet and husband Edward Lippman, sorely miss her.    
 VOGELSTEIN-Norma. Friends and neighbors at 885 West End Avenue record with sorrow the passing of Norma Vogelstein, a woman of warmth and courage whose leadership and sense of community made this a better place to live. Our love and condolences to her husband, Charles, daughter, Lynn & broth
 ZAVELL-Stephanie Cartwright. August 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Arnold S. Zavell. Loving mother of Margot Schmid and A. Stephen Zavell. Cherished grandmother of Stephen A. Schmid, Mark-Philip Schmid, Alexander J. Zavell and Ducson Zavell. Beloved sister of James J. Coy and Mary Jane 
 Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philad
 DOHERTY-Gloria Jean. Of NYC and Kennebunkport. Leaves her husband Chet, daughter Cameron and son Christian. Arrangements private. Contributions may be made to North Shore Animal League in Port Washington.       
 ESIBILL-Nancy Lynne, Ph.D., C.R.C. Died August 22, 1998, at age 59 after a short illness of cancer. She was a courageous woman of wry good humor and intelligence. A mentor and invaluable source of inspiration to colleagues and students alike, Nancy was a beloved and impassioned teacher. As 
 HAMILTON - Sarah E. The Trustees, faculty, staff, and alumnae of the Nightingale-Bamford School mourn the loss of our beloved Miss Hamilton. She served with distinction from 1947 until her retirement in 1986 and was the Assistant Headmistress and head of the Physical Education Department. A
 KNABEL-Irene Shlivek. Age 96. The Harper family mourns the passing of their dear friend, Irene Knabel, beloved wife of the late Harry Knabel. In the 1920's, as a young social worker at the Irene Kaufmann Settlement in Pittsburgh, Irene mapped the diptheria epidemic areas of the city and mad
 ZAVELL-Stephanie Cartwright. August 22, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Arnold S. Zavell. Loving mother of Margot Schmid and A. Stephen Zavell. Cherished grandmother of Stephen A. Schmid, Mark-Philip Schmid, Alexander J. Zavell and Ducson Zavell. Beloved sister of James J. Coy and Mary Jane 
 The Mexican writer Elena Garro, whose novels, plays and stories exploring the clash between illusion and reality in Latin America made her one of Mexico's most important literary figures behind her former husband, Octavio Paz, died on Saturday at  Cuernavaca Hospital, south of Mexico City. 
 BEERS-Jane Gilbert. On August 21 at age 74, Jane Beers died of heart failure. In the mid-1940's Jane came to N.Y. and became a fashion model, appearing in Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and other magazines. In 1965, Jane founded & became president of Red Carpet Associates, the first and most presti
 DANSON-Henrietta Steinberg. On August 23, of complications following heart surgery. Beloved wife of Harold, mother of Alan and Larry, and grandmother of Ben, Josh and Rob. A wonderful, warm and intelligent woman who was loved by everyone she met-you will be sorely missed by your family and 
 DOBIAS-Maria (Nee Shepherd). On August 22, 1998. Born in Chorrillos, Peru on May 14, 1920. Surviving relatives include husband Dr. Bohdan Dobias, son John, daughter Paula Dupraz and granddaughters, Caroline and Isabelle. Services at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Church, Forest Hills on Friday, 
 ESIBILL-Nancy L. Ph.D, CRC. The faculty and staff of the New York University Rehabilitation Counseling Program mourn the loss of their friend. As a faculty member since 1974 & Program Chairperson since 1986, she was valued for her academic leadership, the currency of her teaching, and her u
 FOSCARINIS-Rosa. Pediatrician. We note with sorrow the tragic death of a dear friend, killed in a car accident in Athens, Greece on August 21, 1998. Funeral services were held in Athens on August 24, 1998. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Nicholas and daughter Maria. In lieu of flowers, 
 JAFFE-Emily. On August 23, 1998. Adored wife of the late Bernard Jaffe. Beloved mother of Jennifer Bell Gardy and son-in-law Martin Gardy, loving grandmother of Alison Gardy and Joanna Gardy. She was a woman of extraordinary talent and spirit whose unique voice will be greatly missed.      
 KASWELL-Celia. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Joan Katz and Robert Kaswell. Loving mother-in-law of Dr. Burton Katz and Kathy Kaswell. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The New York Chapter of Hadassa, 575 Lex
 KNABEL-Irene S., 96. Formerly of Queens, died on August 20th in Tampa, Florida. She is survived by her nephew, Clifford, grand niece and nephew, Nicole and Servalon. Memorial services to be held in Tampa, FL.       
 SAUL-Ida Sophie. On August 23 (the first of Elul). Beloved wife of the late Harry Saul. Loving mother of Rita Saul Shron, Ellen Gruber and the late Gerald Saul. Dear mother-in-law to William Shron, Arnold Gruber and Sandy Saul. Dear grandmother to Elissa and Bill Rosengarten, Francine Shron
 DAVIDSON-Ruth Lovegrove. Of Boca Raton, Florida. Formerly of Sarasota, FL. in her 91st year on August 24, 1998. Devoted wife of Ralph (dec.). Survived by loving children Patricia and Ira Cohen of Boca Raton, FL, Gaines and Leny Davidson of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; six grandchildren and two g
 KRAUS-Sister Irene, D.C. Saint John's University expresses its profound sorrow on the passing of Sister Irene Kraus, D.C., dedicated trustee, wise counselor and cherished friend. Hers was a life of service-to her religious community, to the Daughters of Charity health care system which she 
 LUZ-Jean Osmun. Died of liver cancer in her home in Bedminster, N.J. on August 9, 1998. Jean was born in New York City, lived her entire life in Madison, N.J., and resided in Bedminster for the last 38 years. Jean is survived by her husband of 43 years, Carl, her daughter, Rebecca Storniolo
 McCARTHY-Grace (Puddie, nee Anderson). Wife of the late Richard H. Mother of the late Richard H., Jr. Survived by her grandchildren, Richard H., III and Maura Jean Sauer and six great-grandchildren. In repose Blair-Mazzarella Funeral Home, 723 Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn, Thursday 2:00-5:00
 Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, d
 D'ALTON-Patricia C. Goebel. On August 26, 1998, in Southampton, NY. Loving mother of Alexander William Goebel, & Nancy Goebel Rossi, dear mother-in-law of Doris Johanson Goebel, and devoted grandmother of Alexander Paix Goebel and John F. Rossi III, and was predeceased by her beloved grandd
 KANE-Estelle Ruth. On August 26, 1998. Wife of the late Nathaniel S. Loving mother of Richard and Sanford; dear mother-in-law of Pearl and Louise; beloved grandmother of Bradley, Laura, Leslie & Lisa; Laurie, Randy and the late Eric; sister of Bertram Grollman. Services today, 11:30 A.M., a
 LUZ-Jean Osmun. Died of liver cancer in her home in Bedminster, N.J. on August 9, 1998. Jean was born in New York City, lived her early life in Madison, N.J., and resided in Bedminster for the last 38 years. Jean is survived by her husband of 43 years, Carl, her daughter, Rebecca Storniolo,
 ROSS-Blanche, 82. Died August 24 of ALS in Oklahoma City. A long time resident of Eastchester, NY, she lived in San Diego for the past twelve years. A strong but giving woman with a vibrant love of life, she will be remembered by her brother Anson Franklin, son David, daughter Jane Burdick,
 STEIN-Anne S., 86. Died August 26 at home. Loving mother of Judith and Jonathan; grandmother of Rachel & mother-in-law of Judith E. Dear, generous sister, cousin, aunt, great-aunt to a large, wonderful family. Inspired teacher, good friend, and delight to all who engaged her mind and spirit
 STRAND-Anna. Passed away July 30, 1998. She is survived by her sister, Lillian. Interment was at Mt. Hope Cemetery, Hastings-onHudson, New York, August 3, 1998.       
 COHEN-Leah. On August 27, 1998. Beloved wife of Samuel H. Cohen. Loving mother of Jerome D. Cohen. Cherished grandmother to Jennifer. Services Friday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. COHEN - Leah. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese
 HANDAL-Elsa Said. A resident of Quito, Ecuador, died August 13, 1998, succumbing to the fatal effects of a cerebral aneurysm. Daughter of the late Juan Said and Sara Said, Santiago, Chile, she grew up in Peru and Chile, where she attended school and college. The Said family had extensive bu
 KLEIN-Nathan. After an extended illness. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Father of Seena & Edward Parker, Maxine and Steven Greenspan. Grandfather of Jeremy Parker, Adam & Janis Greenspan. Services Friday, 11:15AM, Riverside Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue, New York City. KLEIN-Na
 LAUGHLIN - Gertrude Huston. Wife of the late James Laughlin, died Wednesday, August 26, 1998 after a long illness, at her home, Meadow House, Norfolk, CT. Mrs. Laughlin was born in NYC and grew up in New York & Wilton, CT. She studied at Parsons School of Design in Manhattan and after compl
 McGHEE-Elizabeth. On August 23, 1998 at her home on Martha's Vineyard. Known to all as Buddy. She was the beloved widow of Dean Paul A. McGhee, mother of Stephen and Peter, grandmother of Paul, Elizabeth and Geoffrey, and friend to many of all ages on the isles of Manhattan and Martha's Vin
 SALTZMAN-Rebecca nee Rechin. On August 26, 1998. Beloved wife of Boris. Loving mother, friend, and advisor to Burt and Kay. Cherished grandmother to Ian, Ben, Gabrielle, Nessa and Beth Moira. Great grandmother to Sarah and Adam. Stalwart in her beliefs; a steadfast family member, neighbor a
 SIEGEL-Pearl. Devoted wife of the late Joseph Rosenzweig and the late Leo Siegel. Adored and adoring mother of Cindi & David. Loving sister of Murray Roseman. Cherished aunt. A gentle soul who touched all she knew and was equally loved by all. Services are Friday at 12 noon, at ''Parkside''
 TROUTT-Dr. Bobbye. The New York University Postdoctoral Program in psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis deeply mourns the loss of Dr. Bobbye Troutt. As supervisor, analyst, teacher and friend, she inspired us with her warmth, humor and generosity, with her rare ability to combine intellectual b
 WILMOT-Virginia L. A resident of Greenwich and Nantucket, died suddenly Wednesday, August 26, at Greenwich Hospital. She was 61 years old and died of natural causes. Mrs. Wilmot is survived by her husband, Clifford R. Wilmot, her mother, Laura Catalano Lancellotti of Garden City, NY, and he
 Dorothy Manners Haskell, who became the Hollywood columnist for the Hearst Corporation after 30 years as the assistant to its syndicated columnist Louella Parsons, died on Tuesday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 95. Writing under the name Dorothy Manners, she took over w
 BEER-Florence Fay. Beloved wife of Walter E. Beer, Jr. for 68 years. Loving mother to John and David. Devoted grandmother to Thomas, Amy, Jeffrey, Elizabeth, Andrew and to her great-grandchildren Tea, Nuala and India. Florence worked for many years for the Public Education Association and V
 BEST-Linda Perkell, 53. Of Coral Springs, FL. Died August 21, 1998. She is survived by beloved husband Andrew, loving daughters Wendy, Carrie, and Abby, loving parents Meyer and Elinor Perkell and devoted sister Paula Perkell.       
 BRICKMAN-Tess. Longtime resident of Valley Stream and current resident of Carle Place. Died on Friday, August 28. She was the beloved wife of Dr. Leonard Brickman, retired Associate Dean of Hofstra University's School of Continuing Education, and the mother of Margaret Sirot Habl and Ann Sm
 EILERS-Doris (nee Millard). Suddenly in Boston, Massachusetts. August 26, 1998. Wife of F. Farny Eilers Jr. of Woodbridge, Connecticut and Nantucket, Mass. Mother of David Farny Eilers. At her request, their will be no services. Memorial gifts may be sent to: The Massachusetts Society for T
 GIBSON-Mary Rose Stroock, died on August 22, 1998. Mary has left family and friends with a void in their lives, but memories that will last forever. May the legacy of love and friendship she has given all of us be passed on to her children and grandchildren, as they are the most precious gi
 GOTHELF-Elsie. In her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Adolph. Devoted mother of Edward (Roberta). Loving Nana to Andrea. Wonderful aunt and greataunt. Cherished friend to many. Graveside services 1:00 PM Sunday at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, Long Island.       
 LOVELL-Agnes Keen. Mercifully, at home in Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ on August 27, 1998. Faithful wife of Robert M. Lovell, died 1988 and loving mother of Robert, Jr. of New Vernon and Douglas K. of Randolph, six grandchildren and four great grandchildren. She was born Sept. 29, 1909 to H
 MURPHY-Linnell B. Mother of Bryan and Glenn. Died August 22, 1998. An educator, traveler and fashion designer, she had her Master's degree. Her proudest achievement was her sons, as Bryan always reminded her!       
 NACHMAN-Charlotte K. on August 28, 1998, peacefully at home at age 101. Beloved wife of the late Arnold N., who died in 1943. Survived by her daughter Marjorie and son-in-law Howard Rosenthal; son Richard and daughter-in-law Sarah Gifft; grandchildren Ann, Ruth, Jesse, Elizabeth, David and 
 RUDINGER-Gerda (nee Knegtmans). 82, died August 27, 1998 after a long struggle with multiple myeloma. Lived in Armonk, NY for over 40 years. A freedom fighter in the Dutch Underground 194145, married her Viennese sweetheart, then a sergeant in the U.S. Army. A strong and giving woman with a
 SHAPIRO-Rose, age 96. Passed away at her home in New York City on August 28nd, 1998. She is survived by her daughters Carol Shapiro, Susan Kiok and Ethel Wunsch; grandchildren Jennifer Kiok and Peter Wunsch; and great-grandchildren Eric and Noah Wunsch.       
 Protima Gauri Bedi, a dancer and actress and the founder of the Nrityagram ensemble and school, which sought to preserve elements of Indian classical dance, died on Aug. 19 in a Himalayan mountain village 200 miles east of New Delhi. Ms. Bedi was 49 and lived just outside of Bangalore, in s
 GALLAGHER-Anne (nee Donohue). Died Friday, August 28. Survived by her son John of New York, her sisters Teresa Sheerin of New York and Anastasia Otsing of London, and her brother Thomas of Balla, County Mayo, Ireland. Interment at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Monday, August 31.       
 KAHN-Beverly. Temple Hillel of North Woodmere, LI, records with profound sorrow the passing of their Congregant, and extends sincere condolences to her husband, Melvin and the entire family. Dr. Alan F. Lavin, Rabbi Arthur Singer, President Morris S. Friedman Rabbi Emeritus       
 LINDSEY-Margay. On August 29, 1998, at her home in NYC, from complications of pneumonia. Wife of the late Theodore B. Lindsey, cherished mother of Missy Lindsey Becker of Fairfield, CT, Jonathan Lindsey of NYC, and Ted Lindsey, Jr. of South Harpswell, ME; dear mother-in-law of Alexandra Tro
 SPELFOGEL-TYE-Helen (Steinberg). On Saturday, August 29. Age 83, of Aventura, FL, formerly of MA. Beloved wife of the late Morris R. Spelfogel and Sam Tye. Devoted mother of Evan J. & Beverly Spelfogel of Great Neck, NY, and Bette-Ann & William Spielman of Roslyn, NY. Cherished grandmother 
 STUPACK-Betti H. Of Southbury, CT, and Sarasota, FL. Died suddenly Saturday, August 29, in her home after a prolonged illness. She was the cherished wife of Irwin, the beloved mother of Robert Stupack and Barbara Anton, loving grandmother of Stephanie Stupack, Michael and Joel Anton, devote
