 HERMAN-Anita. Born December 10, 1916-died February 25, 2003 at 5:51 A.M. in the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington, Rockville, MD. She was the beloved wife of the late Samuel E. Herman and is survived by her children Barbara H. Herman, Ph.D. and Robert H. Herman, and grandchildren Alexandra 
 MYERSON-Margaret (Peggy), 69. On February 27th. She was Acting Director of the New York Office of HUD and past-President of The Women's City Club of New York. She worked in the Planning Office of the Ministry of Housing in London. She leaves her devoted husband Howard and a large circle of 
 UDOFF-Brenda J. On February 28, 2003. Incredible and loving mother of Andrea and Erica. Loving grandmother of Oliver. Beloved wife of the late Victor. Devoted sister of the late Frances. Her optimism and positive spirit enriched the lives of everyone who knew her and will be missed. Memoria
 WALLER-Rhoda. Cherished and beloved wife of Seth-69 years young. An elegant and graceful lady, she gave joy to all whose lives she touched. Rhoda made the world a brighter place wherever she was. She had the gift of how to live each day to its fullest. She had charm, warmth and radiated lov
 Amy Sue Rosen, a modern dance choreographer known for her collaborations with the painter Derek Bernstein, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 47. The cause was cancer, according to Mr. Bernstein, her husband. Ms. Rosen, who was born in Baltimore, trained with 
 D'AGOSTINO - Josephine Tucciarone. Mrs. Nicholas D'Agostino, Sr., widow of the founder of New York's famous D'Agostino Supermarkets, died at The Osborn Home, Rye, New York. She was 93. Mrs. D'Agostino was born Josephine Tucciarone on April 14, 1909, in Bronx, NY, to Frank and Celeste Tuccia
 DELSON-Hilda. 90, died at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan on Thursday, February 27, after a lengthy illness. Mrs. Delson received her Bachelor of Arts Degree from City College of New York. She was for many years, until her retirement at age 75, a successful equities broker on Wall Street f
 DOMOFF-Judith, nee Judith Helen Chesney, died on February 26 at age 89. She was predeceased by her husband, Beryl; her parents, Mendel and Mary (Schlossberg) Chesney; and brothers, Morton and Daniel. She is survived by her children, Elizabeth and Daniel; daughterin-law, Nancy; and granddaug
 GERBER-Anna (nee Chasin). Formerly of East Meadow, LI. Peacefully on February 28, 2003, in San Diego, CA. We will cherish her devotion to her late husband Pete, her pride in her family, and her love of classical music. She will always be in the hearts of her children Stan, Chuck & Betsy; he
 GERRY-Louisa Livingston, 39. Died in New York Presbyterian Hospital after a long illness on February 24, 2003. Beloved daughter of Elbridge T. and Caroline A. Gerry of Locust Valley, N.Y. Sister of Elbridge T. Gerry III of New Canaan, CT., Ellen G. Breed of Greenwich, CT., Alison G. Rodney 
 HEALD-Mary Poe Maus, 74. Died peacefully on February 19, 2003 with her family by her side in Ft. Meyers, FL. Born in Orange, NJ, daughter of the late William D. Maus, former Chairman of Marsh and McLennan, Inc., and Irene Blanchard Maus. She was educated at the Miss Beards School, Walnut Hi
 HIRSH-Margaret. Devoted wife of Kurt, beloved mother of Helen and Richard, cherished and adored grandmother of Daniel, Evelyn, Stephen, and David, trusted friend and confidante, passed away Feburary 28, age 85. A partner in life and in business with Kurt, she will endure as a loving inspira
 HOROWITZ-Jennie. Sutton Place Synagogue extends condolences to devoted member and Patron Jacqueline Grosovsky on the passing of her beloved mother. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 LEVINE - Vera. My best friend, she enriched my life. Loved and honored. Zelda Hirsch and Family       
 MILLER-Sylvia. On February 28, 2003, age 76. Mother of Ian and Russell, grandmother of Zachary and Laura. Quintessential New Yorker. A woman of style and charity, devoted to her family, she was a fierce advocate for simple justice, a fighter for the rights of those stricken with pulmonary d
 RESSEGUIER-Olga W. Born in Vienna, Austria, November 16, 1915. Wife of Clemens Resseguier. Mother of John H. Wyman and Virginia W. Meyer. Loving grandmother of Christina, Charles, Edward and Katharine. Predeceased by her first husband, Charles A. Wyman and son Thomas. Contributions may be m
 ROSENBERG - Mae K. Passed away February 27, 2003 at the age of 91. Beloved mother and grandmother. She will be greatly missed. Survived by her children Stuart and Linda, Robert and Linda, and her grandchildren Joshua and Karine, Matthew, Jeffrey and Jillian.       
 SKYDELL-Ruth. Died February 21, 2003. ''An honored name is more valued than pure oil.'' (Koheles chapter 7.1) With profound sorrow we mourn the loss of our most precious possession, Ruth Skydell. Wife, mother, grandmother, condfidante, counselor. A nobel woman of regal stature, she will for
 STEIN-Grace Prowler. Died on Feb. 27, 2003. She was the devoted wife of the late Saul Stein and mother of Steven J. Stein of Greenwich, CT. and Dr. Paul F. Stein of Lakeland, FL. She is also survived by daughters-in-law, Dr. Susan V. Stein and Pamela R. Stein, grandchildren, Matthew R. Stei
 Anne Burr McDermott, who as Anne Burr was a leading lady on Broadway and radio and in early television in the 1940's and 50's, died on Feb. 1 not far from her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 84. After acting in stock and radio roles, she made her Broadway debut in 1941 in the drama 
 Frankie Hewitt, who spearheaded the revival of Ford's Theater here and turned it into a showplace for plays and musicals, died Friday at her home in Kensington, Md. She was 71. The cause was cancer, Ford's Theater announced. Just one day earlier, President Bush had awarded h
 CHIA-Frances T.C. Died on February 27th, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. A devoted wife and mother, Mrs. Chia always put the needs of others before hers. She was a woman of boundless generosity and kindness to her family and far-reaching circle of friends around the world. A
 D'AGOSTINO - Josephine Tucciarone. Mrs. Nicholas D'Agostino, Sr., widow of the founder of New York's famous D'Agostino Supermarkets, died at The Osborn Home, Rye, New York. She was 93. Mrs. D'Agostino was born Josephine Tucciarone on April 14, 1909, in Bronx, NY, to Frank and Celeste Tuccia
 McMAHON-Helen M. On February 28, 2003, of Plandome Heights, NY. She attended Elmhurst Convent of The Sacred Heart in Providence, RI, and Pembroke College, and served in The American Red Cross during World War II in the south Pacific. Loving wife of the late William C. McMahon. Dear mother o
 MILLER-Sylvia. On February 28, 2003, age 76. Mother of Ian and Russell, grandmother of Zachary and Laura. Quintessential New Yorker. A woman of style and charity, devoted to her family, she was a fierce advocate for simple justice, a fighter for the rights of those stricken with pulmonary d
 SHAPIRO-Carole Goodman. On March 1, 2003. Lost her incredible and valiant battle with cancer. Loving wife of Fred. Cherished and adored mother of Joan and Barbara. Amazing mother-in-law of Ralph and Jimmy. Loving and loved sister and sister-inlaw of David and Marilyn Sternschuss and Carol a
 THYKESON-Leona H. Age 91, of Brewster, NY. Died February 28, 2003, at home. Daughter of Arthur and Julia (Parent) Rivers. Wife of the late Ralph M. Thykeson and the late Dr. Louis Held. Sister of Paul and Joseph Rivers. Aunt of nine nieces, two nephews and numerous grandnieces and grandneph
 Elaine Barrie, the fourth wife of the Shakespearean actor John Barrymore, with whom she shared a tumultuous on-again, off-again engagement and marriage that enthralled the nation in the darkest days of the Depression, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 87. Her story unwinds like
 BROWN-Joan Gallagher of Greenwich, Ct. died on March 3, 2003. She was born on March 18, 1923 in Bklyn, NY and was the devoted wife of Peter Campbell Brown who predeceased her in 1994. She is survived by Peter C. Jr. and June, Patricia Joan, Thomas G. and Kerry, Michael F. and Lisa and Rober
 DWORKIN-Ruth (nee Berman). On March 2, 2003 at age 82. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Jay, Roberta and Andrew. Wonderful mother-in-law to Carol, Ueli and Jan. Adored by her grandchildren David, Rachael, Jason, Cara, Kaira, Julia, Jacqueline and Drew. Services will be hel
 HACKEN - Shirley Barkan. Born December 3, 1929, died December 28, 2002. Longtime resident of Forest Hills, relocated to West Palm Beach, FL. Survived by daughter, Ronnie and her partner, son Philip, and granddaughter Alexis, all of Olympia, WA.       
 MAIT-Doris. Wonderfully optimistic nurturing adoring wife, mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, dear friend to everyone who knew and loved her, and to her cousins who cherished her. Justin, Charles and all the Israels       
 NICKERSON - Marie - Louise Steiner, 82. Widow of Judge Eugene Nickerson, mother of Marie-Louise, Lawrie, Stephanie, Susan, grandmother of Elizabeth, Sayre, Giacomo, Josephine, Aurelia, sister of Mrs. O.J. Van Dyk. In her memory, donations may be sent to Cobble Hill Health Center, Alzheimer'
 ROBBINS-Lucille D., 84. On March 2, 2003, beloved wife, mother, and grandmother. Lucille was a kind and friendly person, who had a love for the opera and theatre. She was also a very charitable person who belonged to many organizations. Funeral services Thursday 10 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell
 STARR-Roz (Rosalyn Krieger). Beloved mother of Kevin Krieger; cherished by sister Anita Eisenberg and adored by grandchildren Robert, Margaret and Evi. Passed away March 1, 2003. Loving, caring and always very generous and giving, she will be greatly missed by all who knew her. For more tha
 WITTY-Helen M. Died at age 90 in Tequesta, FL, her home in recent years. She had lived in Pound Ridge & New York City with her late husband Sidney. She was a grand, intelligent, humorous lady. We at American Express Tax and Business Services who advised her and her family for decades will m
 ZIMMERN - Marjorie. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President       
 DiFIORE-Josephine (Jay). Of Mount Vernon, NY on March 4, 2003. Josephine was a loving caregiver to her family, daughter, New York Supreme Court Justice Janet DiFiore, son-in-law Dennis Glazer, grandchildren Alexandra, Joseph and Michael Glazer, two brothers Roger and Frank Marallo and one s
 KETTERING - Virginia W. The Boards of Overseers and Managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with sorrow the death of Virginia Kettering. Carrying on her family's legacy, Mrs. Kettering had given her time, talent, imagination, and support to Memorial Sloan-Kettering since 196
 LANDSMAN - Estelle. Temple Gates of Zion, Valley Stream, mourns the passing of Estelle. Her presidency marked long years of service. An accomplished pianist, she shared her talents in leading the Temple choir. We offer our condolences to her husband Jerry, and family.       
 ROBBINS-Lucille D., 84. On March 2, 2003, beloved wife, mother, and grandmother. Lucille was a kind and friendly person, who had a love for the opera and theatre. She was also a very charitable person who belonged to many organizations. Funeral services Thursday 10 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell
 YOFFA-Gretchen H. Of Kew Gardens, N.Y. March 3, 2003. Beloved sister of Miriam. A truly compassionate woman; she was a motivating influence to youth and all the people whose lives she touched. She will be remembered as an admired educator and loved friend.       
 AST-Joan. Died on March 4. Wife of the late Harry. Mother of Ilene & Shelley; motherin-law of Jeff; sister of Sonia; grandmother of Scott (Jill) and Gary (Stephanie); aunt and friend. Donations in her memory may be made to the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, 5901 Palisade Ave., Bronx
 FANE-Xenia, 83. Originally of Brooklyn, NY, residing in Clearwater, FL passed away peacefully, March 4, 2003 at her home. Beloved mother of Jason and Daria, loving wife of 49 years to the late Arthur Fane. Survived by many cousins of the Flyer family and numerous friends. A woman of valor, 
 KASS-Sylvia Lieber. Age 90, died March 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Irving Kass, daughter of the late Marie and Joseph Lieber. Sister of the late Priscilla Lieber Kaufman and Winifred Lieber. Survived by loving sons Nicholas and Donald, grandchildren Andrew, Elizabeth, Jeremy and Nina 
 MOORE-Diana J., 48. On February 26, at home with her devoted life partner, Ellen McKeon by her side. In recent years Diana worked as an executive in advertising sales. She was a former actor in New York and San Francisco, Assistant Director at the Kassel Opera House in Germany, and an excep
 ZAUDERER-Lea. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished member, Mrs. Sylvia Zeevi. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 Fedora Barbieri, a dramatic mezzo-soprano celebrated for Verdi interpretations that were extensively preserved on records and film, died on Tuesday in Florence, Italy. She was 82. Gifted with a large, opulent voice, Miss Barbieri was of the same generation of opera stars as Cesare S
 BARBIERI-Fedora. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of the esteemed mezzo-soprano Fedora Barbieri. A leading artist with the Met for ten seasons, she will be remembered especially for her magnificent portrayals of the great Verdi mezzo roles. We extend our sincere condolences to her fa
 CONNER-Nadine. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Nadine Conner, a beloved leading soprano with our company for 18 seasons from 1941 to 1960. We extend our sincerest condolences to her family and friends. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director       
 MASLOW-Grace. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Grace Maslow, and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband and our esteemed member, Lester, and their family. Servi
 ROCHLIN-Rose, (95). Wife of the late Raymond. Beloved mother of Stephen and the late Martin. Mother-in-law of Leslie and Evelyn. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Laurie, Joshua and Robin, Adam and Amy, Kenneth and Deborah. Blessed with 10 great grandchildren. She meant the world to us.
 ROSE-Beverly Williams. Loving wife and best friend to her husband of 56 years, Eddie. Wonderful and caring mother to her sons Hadley, Brad and Keith and her daughters-in-law Robin and Katherine and her grandchildren Lucas, Zak and Erin. And, of course, to the honorary 4th sons whom she open
 BRUNETTI - Anna G. Of Hackensack, New Jersey and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, passed away on March 5, 2003, at Miami Heart Institute in Miami Beach, Florida after a brief illness. Mrs. Brunetti, 88, was the widow of the real estate magnate Joseph J. Brunetti. Born in Brooklyn, New York in 1914
 BUSH-Rose K. On March 6th, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Judith Greene and Linda Ellison (Jeff). Adoring grandmother of Nancy (Jeff), Carolyn (Jeff), Susan, Jennifer (Frank) and William. Greatgrandmother of Sam, Michelle, Zachary and Zoe. She will be deeply missed.
 CHIA-Frances. The Board of Trustees of NYU Downtown Hospital joins with the physicians and staff in expressing sorrow at the passing of Frances Chia, a distinguished member of the Board for many years. Her wisdom and generosity will be missed by all. We offer our sincere condolences to her 
 LUKS-Gertrude. The members of Scarsdale SynagogueTremont Temple mourn the death of Gertrude Luks, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to her daughters, Dr. Linda Davis and Janet Siegel and their entire family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Gerald L. Cohen, President   
 MASLOW - Grace. Passed away on March 6, 2003 at age 76 in her winter home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of Lester Maslow and widow of Armand (Rocky) Cantor; loving mother of Patricia Sheridan and Michael Cantor, stepmother to Jane Maslow and grandmother to Jamie; sister of Randolph and Ph
 BOOKS-Mary (Karsh). Entered into rest March 7, of Newton, MA. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Books. Devoted mother of Roberta Paula Books and her husband Jay Negin of Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Susan Anderson of Bloomfield, NJ, and Stuart Alan Books and his wife Judith Haber of Brookline, MA. 
 JABLONSKI-Jane L. Of Glen Head, NY, on March 7, 2003, in her 91st year. She was the first woman appointed VicePresident at Smith Barney & Co., where she headed their Blue Sky Law Department. She retired after forty years of service. Sister of Ann Jablonski and Henry Jablonski. Also survived
 JONAS-Mitzi (nee Rosenstein). On March 8, at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Harry Jonas. Devoted mother of Gilbert Jonas and Flora Einhorn and dear mother-in-law of Joyce Jonas and Daniel Einhorn. Loving grandmother of Susan, Sharon, Jeffrey, Jillian and Stephanie, and great-grandmother o
 KAPLAN-Alma (nee Denenholz), of Manhattan, died at home in her sleep, March 1, age 96. Lucid and lively to the end, she had her devoted caregiver Nancy Dick with her when she died, and in recent years rejoiced at the constant devotion and care of her grandson, Joshua Popenoe. Born in Far Ro
 KRAEMER - Dorothy Har tung. Wife of the late W. Frank Kraemer, passed away on March 8, 2003, at Morristown Memorial Hospital after complications from a hip fracture. A resident of Spring Lake, NJ, and Tequesta, FL, and formerly a longtime resident of Englewood, NJ. Beloved mother of two dau
 MASLOW - Grace. Passed away on March 6, 2003 at age 76 in her winter home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of Lester Maslow and widow of Armand (Rocky) Cantor; loving mother of Patricia Sheridan and Michael Cantor, stepmother to Jane Maslow and grandmother to Jamie; sister of Randolph and Ph
 MCKINNEY-Mary Francis Joyce of Raleigh, NC died on March 3rd after a long illness. Born in 1927 in New York City, she lived much of her life in Norwalk, CT. She is survived by her husband Donald L. McKinney, daughter Jennifer Magnus and her husband Tom, son Douglas G. McKinney and his wife 
 WITTY-Helen M. Died at age 90 in Tequesta, FL, her home in recent years. She had lived in Pound Ridge & New York City with her late husband Sidney. She was a grand, intelligent, humorous lady. We at American Express Tax and Business Services who advised her and her family for decades will m
 Nadine Conner, who sang on the radio with Bing Crosby and Gordon MacRae before a lengthy career as a lyric soprano at the Metropolitan Opera, died March 1 in Los Alamitos, Calif. She was 96. She made her New York debut on Dec. 22, 1941, as Pamina in an English version of Mozart's ''
 GREENBERG-Betty Carb. 98, March 9, 2003, West Palm Beach, FL. Widow of Alfred B. Carb and James E. Greenberg. Beloved mother of Stephen Carb and Alice Berger. Adored grandmother of Alison, Brian, Laura, Evan, Alexander and Daniel. Cherished mother-in-law and friend to Sally, Paula, Mort, El
 SHAINWALD - Sidney. The Officers and Directors of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the Tel Aviv Museum extend their deepest condolences to our esteemed Board member Sybil Shainwald and her family on the passing of her beloved husband Sidney. SHAINWALD - Sidney.
 STERNHELL - Mildred. On March 9, 2003. She will be remembered by her children Karen and Robert and his wife Becky, grandchildren Paul, Michael and Terran, sisters Roz and Selma, and her many friends. Services Tuesday, 12:45 PM, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd. (at 66th Ave.),
 WILLIAMS-Audrey. Beloved sister and friend, passed away Saturday, March 8, 2003. She is survived by her sister and brother-in-law, Anna G. Branch and Clyde Branch, and her extended family: Dr. Bel-Michele DeMille, Christopher Vieni, Alison, Michael, and Emily Hughes, and Ida Dia. Viewing at
 Susan Johnson, who sang in musical theater on and off Broadway in the 1950's, died on Feb. 24 at her daughter's home in Sacramento. She was 75. She had emphysema, said Greg MacKellan, who produced some CD's she sang on. Her biggest moment came when she was a featured perform
 CHAMBERLIN-Irma M. Devoted wife of the late W. Macy Chamberlin, passed away peacefully at her residence in Zurich, Switzerland on March 7, 2003. She is survived by a sister, Erica Rommel; a brother, Robert Morell; and her many nieces and nephews and grandnieces and grandnephews. She is also
 KALLMAN-Ruth. On Mar. 7, 2003, passed away peacefully at the age of 90. Wife of the late Mickey Kallman. Loving mother of Robert and Jay of Windham, NY. Sister of the late Danny Jacobs. Her memory will be cherished. She lived as she died, like a lady. Private services Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Q
 LICHT - Lottie, Dr. (nee Meyerhoff). On March 9 at age 98. Born Dusseldorf, Germany, emigrated to the US in 1938. Received Ph.D in Frankfurt and MSW from Columbia University. Worked as a medical social worker for the City of NY and several major hospitals. Remained active in her field after
 MITTLEMANN-Ady. March 9, 2003. Although we do not see your face, your smile, your eyes, Your beauty and grace cast about the heavens and skies. Do not worry our dear friend, There is no such thing as an end. You will go on and live amongst the great, Who steadily watch over those of great f
 QUESADA-Kate Davis. Of Hobe Sound, FL. died on March 5, in Scarborough, ME at age 86. Granddaughter of Joseph Pulitzer, founder of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, daughter of Joseph and Elinor Wickham Pulitzer, widow of Captain Henry Ware Putnam who died in the Pacific in 1945, and Lt. General
 REIFFEL-Roslyn A. (nee Siskind). On March 10, 2003, at the age of 85. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Loving mother of Jim and Bob, mother-inlaw of Bonnie and Suzanne. Adoring grandmother of Gabrielle and her husband Julian, Jamie and her husband Scott, Lauren and Alyssa.       
 SCHEINBACH - Rosalie. Passed away on March 10, age 90, peacefully and at home. Beloved wife to Milton for 64 years. Loving mother to Barry and Gail & son-inlaw Robert. Cherished grandmother to David and Lauren. Her gentleness, her compassion and unwavering love will forever be missed. Servi
 SHAPIRO - Toni Mendez. Died March 9, 2003 at home at age 94, after a distinguished career as a dancer, choreographer, Rockette and literary agent extraordinaire. A woman who wore many hats. Survived by her niece Cynthia Weil Mann and her nephew Richard Weil. Visiting from Noon to 1 PM on Th
 TIETJEN-Joyce. The Ursuline School community acknowledges with sadness the untimely death of our colleague, Joyce Tietjen, Director of Guidance. She served our school with grace and wisdom. We extend our condolences to her family, including her husband John, her daughters Tracey (Mahoney) '
 ZAUDERER-Lea. The officers and board members of Yeshiva University Women's Organization extend heartfelt condolences to Sylvia Zeevi, a dedicated and loyal officer of our national board, on the loss of her beloved mother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jer
 ALBOM - Lenore. Beloved daughter of Edwin and Isabel Albom, loving sister of Larry, Jody, Barbara, Jerry, Jennifer, Jane, John, and adored aunt of Alexa, Danielle, Jordan, Zachary, Siva, Benjamin and Zoe, passed away on March 10th. Lenore was a Vice President at JP Morgan Chase, Treasurer o
 BERNSTEIN - Helen. On March 11, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sylvan. Devoted mother of Grace and Dan. Cherished grandmother of Paul, John and David and great-grandmother of Fred and Rachel. Services Thursday 1 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. BERNSTEIN-He
 BLAKE-Loretta (Petty) Nelson. On March 5, in Fallbrook, CA. Petty was a stylist and reporter at LIFE magazine, among other positions. Beloved mother of Casey Nelson Blake, mother-in-law of Arlene Shaner, stepmother of Christina Blake Oliver, grandmother of Hannah and Laura Blake, and aunt o
 JUNOD-Elizabeth Isabel Donaldson, 87, a 50-year resident of Pelham Manor, died on Monday, March 10, in RI. Mrs. Junod was born March 7, 1916, in Toronto, Canada. She was a 50-year member of Christ Church, Pelham Manor. She was married October 28, 1939, to Charles F. Junod Jr., who died in 1
 QUESADA-Kate Davis. Of Hobe Sound, FL. died on March 5, in Scarborough, ME at age 86. Granddaughter of Joseph Pulitzer, founder of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, daughter of Joseph and Elinor Wickham Pulitzer, widow of Captain Henry Ware Putnam who died in the Pacific in 1945, and Lt. General
 SHAPIRO-Toni Mendez. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Toni Mendez Shapiro, a longtime ADL leader and supporter. Through the generosity of Toni and her late husband, Shap Shapiro, ADL established its annual Shap Shapiro Fellowship. We will miss her strength, determination a
 SPIRA-Ruth. The family of Ruth Spira sadly announced her passing on March 9. Born in Dortmund, Germany. Predeceased by her husband Izak in 1974. Devoted mother to Harvey, adoring motherin-law to Jessica and loving grandmother to Zachary.       
 ALBOM-Lenore. The Service Guild, The Auxiliary, of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply regrets the passing of Lenore Albom, daughter of our president Isabel Albom and her husband Edwin. We extend our deepest condolences to the Albom family during this difficult time. ALBOM-Leno
 FRIEDMAN-Zelda, Columbia, S.C. Memorial service for Zelda Cohen Friedman will be at 2:30 P.M., Wednesday, March 19, 2003, at Tree of Life Synagogue, Columbia, S.C. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., daughter of the late Joseph Cohen and Nettie Waxman Cohen, graduated from Montclair State University, a
 HILL-Minna. Died peacefully at home in New York City on March 4, 2003, following a long illness, at the age of 89. The adored wife of the late Henry D. Hill, she leaves a daughter, Angela PlowdenWardlaw, and a son-in-law, James Plowden-Wardlaw; a son, Frederick D. Hill, and a daughter-in-la
 LAPID-Barbara Hope, R.N. Beloved and devoted mother of Jennifer Ashkinaze and Samantha Young. Doting grandmother to Jack Ashkinaze. Adored daughter of Louis and Lucille Lapid. Dear sister of Linda and Stephen Kates and Jeffrey and Susan Lapid. A compassionate hospice nurse who will be terri
 RICCIARDI-Amalia R. ''Molly,'' nee Sena, born November 8, 1914, the youngest of ten, in Stafford Springs, Connecticut, died March 10, 2003, Oxford, CT. Loving, devoted, humble and selfless wife, mother, grandmother, pharmacist, nutritionist, author and educator. One of the first women to en
 SHAINWALD - Sidney. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students of the New York Academy of Art mourn the passing of Sidney Shainwald, beloved husband of our esteemed Trustee, Sybil Shainwald, and a loyal friend of the Academy. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to Sybil and her en
 BUCK-Carmen Lucia. The Board of Trustees of the Danbury Health Systems, Danbury Hospital and the Danbury Hospital Development Fund, Inc., along with the administration, medical staff and employees of Danbury Hospital mourn the passing of Carmen Lucia Buck, a major benefactor of the Danbury 
 DAVNER-Esta. After a long punishing illness, Esta passed away on March 13. She was most special, sweet and gentle, with the most radiant wonderful smile. Esta embraced family, friends and life. She leaves husband Alvin, who loved and adored her. Beloved sons Arthur and Paul and wife Bibi. C
 DRADDY-Maria Rosa, 64 years old, of Sebring, FL, died on Saturday, March 8, 2003. She was preceded in death by her husband, Vincent dePaul Draddy who died in 1990. She is survived by three children, Mimi Lambert, John Lambert, and Vincent Draddy and his wife Lynn; and four grandchildren, La
 HILL-Minna. Died peacefully at home in New York City on March 4, 2003, following a long illness, at the age of 89. The adored wife of the late Henry D. Hill, she leaves a daughter, Angela PlowdenWardlaw, and a son-in-law, James Plowden-Wardlaw; a son, Frederick D. Hill, and a daughter-in-la
 LAPID-Barbara Hope, R.N. Beloved and devoted mother of Jennifer and Alan Ashkinaze and Samantha Young. Doting grandmother to Jack Ashkinaze. Adored daughter of Louis and Lucille Lapid. Dear sister of Linda and Stephen Kates and Jeffrey and Susan Lapid. A compassionate hospice nurse who will
 REICHMAN-Vera Stein, 86. Of Great Neck, died on March 11, 2003 in Columbus, OH. Former teacher at Martin Van Buren High School in Queens. Beloved wife of the late Charles Reichman. Cherished mother of Henry Reichman and Joyce Klayman (nee Reichman). Mother-in-law of Susan Hutcher and Elliot
 CLEARY-Mary J. Nee Eichler. Wife of the late Joseph T. Cleary. Mother of Joseph, Donald (Bede), and Robert (Rip) Cleary. Grandmother of 7, great-grandmother of 14. Resting Monday 2-4 and 79PM at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Mass of Christian Burial, Tuesday, 10:30AM, Holy Innoce
 DAVNER-Esta. The partners, associates and staff of McAloon & Friedman acknowledge with profound sorrow the passing of Esta Davner, beloved sister of our Senior and Founding Partner, Stanley Friedman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Alvin, her sons Paul and Arthur and her entir
 EICHBAUM - Saree, died peacefully at home in Metuchen, NJ on March 14, 2003 following a 14 year struggle with Parkinson's disease. With her husband, Ulryk, fled Hitler's invading armies in September 1939 and built a new life together in America. Devoted wife of Ulryk and loving mother of Ju
 FELDMAN-Vita. On March 14, 2003, in Lake Worth, FL. Adored wife of the late Gustave, she was and will forever be cherished by her children Sandra, Alan, and Jack; their spouses Bernard, Judith, and Matthew; her brother Leonard and sister-in-law Myra; her grandchildren Jayne, Richard, Abbye 
 FINE - Beatrice (Schneur). Loving mother of Lynne Fertig, adoring grandmother of Harper. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Schneur and Marvin Fine. Sister of Seymour Wiedenbaum and the late Phyllis Garrelick. She is greatly loved and will be deeply missed more than words can express. Gravesi
 HILL-Minna. Died peacefully at home in New York City on March 4, 2003, following a long illness, at the age of 89. The adored wife of the late Henry D. Hill, she leaves a daughter, Angela PlowdenWardlaw, and a son-in-law, James Plowden-Wardlaw; a son, Frederick D. Hill, and a daughter-in-la
 AUERBACH-Alice C. Wife of the late William H. Auerbach. Survived by her sister Madeleine Marx, aunt and greataunt, dearly loved, passed away on March 15, 2003, at the age of 100. Daughter of the late Olga C. Warburg and Paul Kohn Speyer. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 EICHBAUM - Saree, died peacefully at home in Metuchen, NJ on March 14, 2003 following a 14 year struggle with Parkinson's disease. With her husband, Ulryk, fled Hitler's invading armies in September 1939 and built a new life together in America. Devoted wife of Ulryk and loving mother of Ju
 FELDMAN-Vita. On March 14, 2003, in Lake Worth, FL. Adored wife of the late Gustave, she was and will forever be cherished by her children Sandra, Alan, and Jack; their spouses Bernard, Judith, and Matthew; her brother Leonard and sister-in-law Myra; her grandchildren Jayne, Richard, Abbye,
 FUHR-Henrietta, 92. Beloved wife of the late Dr. I.G. Fuhr. Mourned by her sister Thelma, children Joan and Sherman Yellen, Linda and George Siegel, grandchildren Nick and Kathy, Jenn and John, Chris and Lise. We were blessed to have her in our lives.       
 GOTTLIEB-Joan. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Nickie and Jordan. Darling sister of Linda Lawrence. Cherished aunt of Rand, Tracy, and Murray, and greataunt of Beau. Services ''Bouldevard Riverside Chapels,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 11:30 AM, Sunday. GOTTLIEB-Joan ''Joan
 LEVI-Kate Sulzberger, 85, suddenly. Devoted wife for 54 years of the late Edward Hirsch Levi. Loving mother of John (Jill), David (Nancy Ranney) and Michael (Natalie Roe). Cherished grandmother of Benjamin, Daniel, Sarah, Joseph, William, Patricia and Adam. Dear sister of Ann S. (Arnold) Wo
 MARINGER-Irene. 90, of Ft. Lauderdale, died on Thursday, March 13, 2003. Mrs. Maringer, formerly of New York City, moved to Ft. Lauderdale 27 years ago with her late husband, Simon Maringer, M.D. She was born in Hungary in 1913 into a family that would grow to five sisters and two brothers.
 MERBERG-Sheila. The Garment Center Congregation is deeply saddened by the passing of Sheila Merberg. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband, our esteemed member of the Board of Trustees, Seymour, and to the entire family. May they be consoled with all the mourners of Israel.
 REICH-Claire. Family and friends mourn the passing of our dear friend and relative. She died peacefully at home Friday, March 14. Service will be at Schwartz Memorial Chapel, Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, at 10:15 AM, Sunday, March 16.       
 TAYLOR - Jeanne Colton. The family of Jeanne Colton Taylor sadly announces her passing on March 11, 2003. Loving mother of Ellen, Richard and Jane. Devoted grandmother of Andrew, Nick and Lisa. Cherished great-grandmother of Ethan.       
 DAVIS-Amanda. 32, author of ''Circling the Drain'' and ''Wonder When You'll Miss Me,'' on March 14, in a plane crash outside of Asheville, NC, while on a book tour for her just published new novel. Also perishing in the crash, her father and mother, Jim and Francie Davis. She is survived by
 FELDMAN - Vita. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are saddened by the passing of Vita Feldman. Vita, together with her late husband Gus, founded The Jack Martin Fund, which has supported important programs at Mount Sinai for more than 50 years. Through the e
 FREEMAN-Harriet. Age 92, resident all her life of Manhattan, died peacefully March 13, 2003, after a brief illness. She was predeceased by her parents, Dr. Benjamin and Julia Freeman. She is survived by her cousins Eric Richards, Lois Broido, Belinda Broido and Amy Rabenhorst. She will be g
 GOTTLIEB-Joan. You have always been the angel amongst us. My sincerest love and condolences to David, Nickie, Jordy and to her dearest devoted sister Linda. Nancy W. Drake       
 JONES-Marie Hicks (Rie). 80, on January 5, 2003, at Medford Leas, Medford, NJ. Devoted wife and best friend to Breckinridge. Beloved mother of Lissa and Deb and mother-in-law of Greg and Jeff. Fabulous grandmother to Sam and Cody. On her birthday we miss her generosity, humor and small gest
 STEENKEN-Mary Frances Milmoe. 90, of Richmond, VA, formerly of Florida, died Saturday, March 15, 2003. Mrs. Steenken was born in New York and received her undergraduate and Masters degrees from St. Joseph's College for Women in New York, and was a teacher and counselor at Lynbrook High Scho
 WILENSKY-Minna. Passed away March 15, 2003, at the age of 87, in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Leonard and the late Samuel L. Werber. Devoted mother to Gerry Werber, Evette and Anita Sapirman. Cherished mother-in-law of Lola, Herb and Alan. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. A
 Sylvia K. Burack, a retired editor and publisher of a magazine that offered advice to budding writers, died on Feb. 14 in Boston. She was 86 and lived in Brookline, Mass. For nearly 40 years Ms. Burack and her husband, A. S. Burack, published The Writer, as well as another magazine 
 Amanda Davis, a promising writer whose first novel appeared in bookstores on Feb. 18, died on Friday when the small plane that was taking her on a publicity tour crashed into a mountain 18 miles from Asheville, N.C. She was 32 and lived in Oakland, Calif. Her father, Dr. James Davis
 BEUSSE-Madeline F. On March 16th, 2003, at age 44. Beloved partner of Suzy Blumenthal. Dear daughter of Elsie and the late Harry Beusse. Proud sister of Edwin Beusse. Loving sister-in-law of Lisa Beusse and loving aunt and godmother of Nicole and David Beusse. Memorial services at Frank E. 
 GOLDEN-Inez Ruth. 87. Formerly of New York, died March 1, 2003 in Phoenix, AZ. A warm and caring wife of 60 years to the late Jack, mother, grandmother and great grandmother, her love of life was inspiring and contagious. Her daughter Olivia Cupp, her son, Ken Golden, grandchildren Roger, M
 GROSS-Florence L. Peacefully, at home, on March 16, 2003, at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Gross. Loving mother of Peter M. and Jane A. Gross. Grandmother of David, Linda and James, and great-grandmother of two. Services private. GROSS-Florence L. Congregation Emanu-El of 
 LEIMER-Lynn. Our diplomatic, gentle president. Party planner, gardener extraordinaire, dear friend. Tireless in her efforts to serve us well, tireless in her battle. Her joy of life was infectious. Sleep well, dear Lynn. Sincere condolences to Lynn's family. 505 Board and Residence       
 POLINSKY - Mollie. Died peacefully at home in Berkeley, CA at age 91. A lifelong resident of Brooklyn until she was 85. Retired Guidance Counselor for the NYC Public Schools. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Carol Gross, Judy Elliott, Alan and Debbie Polinsky. Loving grand
 REICH-Claire. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Claire Reich, member of the Weizmann Institute President's Circle and benefactor of the Stephen and Claire Reich Endowment Fund. We extend heartfelt condolences to her entire family and her frie
 SCHWARTZ-Rebecca (nee Kleinberg), 96. On March 17, 2003. She was born January 26, 1907 in Dorna Vatra, Austria-Hungary. During World War I, she and her mother, grandmother, and four younger sisters, fled their village in a horse-pulled cart, eventually reaching Vienna. In 1923, they emigrat
 WIEDEMAN - Rachel Hen kins, M.D. Age 91. Formerly of New York City. Died March 4th, 2003 at her West Virginia residence. Her son Michael, daughter-in-law Melanie and beloved granddaughter Amanda Wiedeman survive her.       
 WILLIS-Roslyn, on Saturday March 15, 2003. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. We will miss her dearly.       
 WINSOR - Kathleen (nee Kraft). Of Fishkill, NY, and La Jolla, CA, died at a New York hospital on March 4, after a short illness. She is grievously mourned by a large family and a wide circle of friends. Memorial service Sunday, April 6, at 2 PM, Beacon Hebrew Alliance, 331 Verplanck Ave, Be
 Judy V. Wilson, long a successful publisher of children's books, most recently at Orchard Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc., died in Manhattan on Friday. She was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, said Deborah Hochman Turvey, a family friend. Mrs. Wilson was 
 BEUSSE-Madeline F. On March 16th, 2003, at age 44. Beloved partner of Suzy Blumenthal. Dear daughter of Elsie and the late Harry Beusse. Proud sister of Edwin Beusse. Loving sister-in-law of Lisa Beusse and loving aunt and godmother of Nicole and David Beusse. Memorial services at Frank E. 
 DAVIS-Anne. The Department of Medicine of NYU School of Medicine notes with sadness the death of our colleague Dr. Anne L. Davis, an Associate Professor of Medicine, and a full time faculty member for almost 35 years. She was to have received the ALA 2003 Will Ross Medal at the ATS Internat
 DAVIS-Barbara. On March 18, 2003. Deeply loved sister, aunt and friend. A painter, sculptor and art teacher, she was a protege of Alexander Archipenko and a member of the American Red Cross, serving in France during World War II. Private mourning. ''May flights of angels sing thee to thy re
 KALINSKY-Gladys F., 79. Passed away Sunday, March 16, 2003 at Beth Israel North Hospital, New York City. She was a retired executive at Creations by Alan Stuart, Inc. Mrs. Kalinsky was a member of the Zionist Organization and a past President of her local chapter of B'nai B'rith in The Bron
 McTIERNAN - Genevieve (nee Bussinah), 73. On St. Patrick's Day, March 17 after a courageous and valiant battle with breast cancer. Beloved wife of the late John J. McTiernan. Devoted, loving and much-loved mother of Susan McTiernan (Edward Gillen) of Port Washington, NY and Patricia McTiern
 RATTNER-Ruth J. (Bunny ). Left this world on March 18, 2003. Her immediate family, husband Milton, daughters, Bambi & Dawn, granddaughter Mackenzie, sister Dorothy Love & brother-in-law Barry Love. After graduating from Penn State, she went on to teach at both the high school and college le
 TESLER-Elaine on March 17 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Aaron, mother of Ellen Oates, Michael Hovatter and adored grandmother of Jessica and Brenna Hovatter. In 1960, Elaine was the third American to be hired by the Panasonic Company. She remained with them for 35 years. Elaine wil
 WOODS-Rose (nee Quartararo), 99. Peacefully on March 17, 2003. Beloved mother of Gloria DiMantova, Virginia Rittmaster, Patricia Woods and Victoria Magnotta. Admired grandmother of Rory, Christopher, Patrick, Lynda, Sally, Vanessa, Walter and Laura. Proud great grandmother of Benjamin, Davi
 BLECKER-Gloria J. Born November 1, 1927 in Sea Gate, Brooklyn, NY to Max & Rose Harnick, passed away peacefully on March 19, 2003 at her home in Rye, NY after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. Beloved wife of Herb for over 46 years, loving mother of David and Robin and mother-i
 GELLER-Shirley. On Purim, March 18, 2003 in her 93rd year. Deeply loved mother of Bonnie Geld (Isaac) and Richard, adored grandmother of Brian, Jessie, and Eddie. Born and raised in Baltimore. Married to the late Dr. Steven Geller for 50 years. A friend to all. Her warmth and kindness was a
 LANE-Susan Ruth (Cotton), 62, of Rye, NY, on March 18, 2003, after a valiant four year battle with breast cancer. Survived by her husband Peter and sons Eric and Greg all of Rye, NY and a brother Stuart Cotton. We will miss her warmth, kindness and intelligence. Funeral service will be held
 ROLAT-Jane. On March 19, 2003 after a long and courageous battle against systemic infection. Beloved daughter of Jacqueline and Sigmund Rolat. Adored sister of Jeffrey, Samantha and Amanda. Doting aunt of Sara and Henry. She will be mourned by all her many friends who knew & loved her for h
 VARRICHIO-Angelina (Lillian). At age 86, passed peacefully in her sleep on March 15, 2003. Widow of Philip Varrichio, cherished sister of Mary Camposa, beloved mother of Rose Lee and the late James Ryan, Katherine and Peter Supon and Philip and Phyllis Varrichio; adored grandmother of Lisa 
 ACHIRON-Michele. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Tom Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 ALCOTT-Rose. Age 91, a founder of Temple Israel of Westport, CT, & 1st Sisterhood President, on March 18, 2003 in Santa Monica, CA. Predeceased by her husband Harvey Alcott. Survived by her son Mark Alcott & his wife Cantor Susan Alcott of Larchmont, NY, her daughter Tama Taub & her husband
 ALLOY-Sonia P. On March 19, 2003. Devoted daughter, loving sister, sister-in-law and aunt. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 LANE-Susan Ruth (Cotton), 62, of Rye, NY, on March 18, 2003, after a valiant four year battle with breast cancer. Survived by her husband Peter and sons Eric and Greg all of Rye, NY and a brother Stuart Cotton. We will miss her warmth, kindness and intelligence. Funeral service will be held
 NICHOLAS-Frances. Graveside services for Frances Nicholas will be held at 1 P.M. Sunday, March 23, at Beth David Cemetery, 300 Elmont Rd., in Elmont, Long Island. The long time teacher (retired) at PS 209 in Queens died in Cleveland on March 15, at age 90. She is survived by two sisters, th
 POLLOCK - Helen. Died March 19, 2003 at age 99. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Pollock. Loving mother of Sheila Derman. Loving mother-in-law of Sidney Derman. Devoted grandmother of Susan Epstein, Donald Derman & his wife Kaye Derman, Lisa Derman & her husband David Lambert, Ruth Fain & her
 ROLAT-Jane. The neighbors and board note with sorrow the untimely passing of Jane Rolat. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her parents Jacqueline and Sigmund and to her sisters and brother. Alan Mirken, President 733 Park Avenue       
 ZONIS-Claire Sorger. On March 19, 2003. Loving mother of Marian Stier and her husband Jeffrey. Adoring grandmother of Andrew, Alexandra and Michael. She will be profoundly missed by her family and dear friends. Service Friday 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contribu
 Laura Rothenberg, who recorded an audio diary for National Public Radio that documented her daily life as she struggled with cystic fibrosis, died Thursday night at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 22. The cause was chronic rejection of a lung transplant, complicated by infection
 EISENBERG-Gertrude. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with sorrow the passing of the mother of JASA's esteemed Chief Operating Officer, Aileen Gitelson. Gertrude Eisenberg was a devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Our hearts go
 ROTHENBERG - Laura E. Died comfortably at home on March 20th, 2003 at age 22. Beloved daughter of Dr. Jon & Mary Rothenberg. Loving partner of Bryan Doerries. Dear granddaughter of Lucy Pentland and the late Lord John Pentland and Ruth Rothenberg & the late Henry Rothenberg. Friends may cal
 ZIPPERT-Katherine S. On March 20, 2003. Beloved mother of Barbara and Ron Lipp, Judith & Edward Kelly, Anita Zippert and Martin and Sharon Zippert. Cherished grandmother of Adam, Thomas, Rebecca, David, Josh, Erica and Bryan. Loving aunt of Joyce, Benjamin, Betsy, David and the late Jonatha
 ALCOTT-Rose. Age 91, a founder of Temple Israel of Westport, CT, & 1st Sisterhood President, on March 18, 2003 in Santa Monica, CA. Predeceased by her husband Harvey Alcott. Survived by her son Mark Alcott & his wife Cantor Susan Alcott of Larchmont, NY, her daughter Tama Taub & her husband
 BARDSLEY-Elda Larzelere Shantz. Died March 6, 2003 in her home in Chevy Chase, Maryland after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late R. Geoffrey Bardsley. Loved & admired mother of Kathryn Lynn, Alexander Geoffrey & Alison Margaret Bardsley. Genealogist, philanthropist, skeptic. A memoria
 BONNER-Mary, 75. Died peacefully on March 16, 2003 in Miami, Florida in the care of her husband Arthur. She leaves behind Arthur, her daughter Jane, her sons Sebastian and Rahul and three adoring grandchildren. Mary was the long-time producer of the daytime television series ''Another World
 EISENBERG-Gertrude. On March 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Morris. Loving mother of Aileen Gitelson (Paul) and Miriam Bazeley (Peter). Cherished grandmother of Lisa, Michael and Philip. Greatgrandmother of Ella. Services today at 12:30 from Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, N
 MISHKIN-Mildred ''Milli'', at 76 years of age in Berkeley, CA, passed away on March 18th. A native of Brooklyn, NY, lived in Berkeley, CA for the last 30 years. A retired Adult Education Administrator. Survived by her husband of 28 years, Paul Mishkin of Berkeley, CA and her son Jonathan We
 MOORE-Gladys (Goldberger). On March 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Isadore. Loving mother of Lisa, David and Debra. Devoted mother-inlaw of Larry and Lori. Adored grandmother of Douglas, Katie, Scott, Nicholas and Jami. Caring sister of Richard and the late Larry Goldberger. We are deeply sadden
 ROTHENBERG - Laura E. Died comfortably at home on March 20th, 2003 at age 22. Beloved daughter of Dr. Jon & Mary Rothenberg. Loving partner of Bryan Doerries. Dear granddaughter of Lucy Pentland and the late Lord John Pentland and Ruth Rothenberg & the late Henry Rothenberg. Friends may cal
 SCODITTI-Egeria Carrozzo. Born October 27, 1928, died in Mesagne, Italy, March 26, 2003. Survived by her five sons Antonio, Mario, Massimo, Carlo and Fedele, and eight grandchildren. A wonderful mother.       
 WASHTON-Helene S. On March 20, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Arnold Washton. Revered and irreplaceable mother of Hope August and her husband Jules. Cherished aunt of Stephanie Tashman & loyal friend to many. Services private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer S
 ZACHARY-Doris Denmark. Plantation, FL. Formerly of Neponsit, N.Y. July 17, 1940March 12, 2003. Survived by children Michael & Michelle Zachary and Barbara & Kent Grelling. Adored grandchildren Jordan, Danielle and Alexandra. Loving ex-husband Lloyd, brothers Robert & Larry Denmark, loving n
 COUDERT-Peggy A. (nee Lipson). Mother of Scott and Jonathan Benson. Mother of Lawrence Benenson and Doggie. Passed peacefully March 23. She lived a full life and had a wide range of friends and people who cared about her. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Cancer Care, 275 7th Ave
 DUEBLER-Josephine. Died on March 20, 2003. Beloved ''Joey,'' was beautiful and kind and good. Born in Antigo, WI, she grew up in Shawano, WI. She was a graduate of Ms. Brown's School in Milwaukee, and in 1945 she came to New York City where she was first employed by the Borden Co, and later
 MOORE-Gladys (Goldberger). On March 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Isadore. Loving mother of Lisa, David and Debra. Devoted mother-inlaw of Larry and Lori. Adored grandmother of Douglas, Katie, Scott, Nicholas and Jami. Caring sister of Richard and the late Larry Goldberger. We are deeply sadden
 SORCHER - Elaine Semel. The Semel Society records with sadness the loss of Elaine Semel Sorcher. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Martin Semel, President       
 BIRD-Julie Perin, 66. On March 20, 2003 in Southampton, NY. She is survived by her daughter, Kelly Pierre, granddaughter Oona Pierre and twin sister Jane Perin. Ms. Bird was president of Perin & Bird Interiors, former president general of the Colonial Dames of America and past board member 
 BONNER-Mary, 75. Died peacefully on March 16, 2003 in Miami, Florida in the care of her husband Arthur. She leaves behind Arthur, her daughter Jane, her sons Sebastian and Rahul and three adoring grandchildren. Mary was the long-time producer of the daytime television series ''Another World
 BUCK-Polly Stone, widow of Yale Provost Norman S. Buck, died on March 23 at age 102. She was a longtime resident of New Haven, CT, and served for 17 years as the Master's wife of Yale's Branford College. She was the author of four books and the recipient of the Yale Medal and the Agnes Scot
 COUDERT-Peggy A. (nee Lipson). Mother of Scott and Jonathan Benson. Mother of Lawrence Benenson and Doggie. Passed peacefully March 23. She lived a full life and had a wide range of friends and people who cared about her. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Cancer Care, 275 7th Ave
 EMMETT - Ellen. Beloved wife of Dr. Steven Emmett, devoted daughter of Murray and the late Mindy Wallach, also survived by her twin sister, Carolyn and brother Jason, and loving nephews, and niece, Douglas, Joshua Averell, and Neva A. Services Tuesday 11:30 A.M. at ''Riverside-Nassau North 
 LEVINSKY-Bertha. Passed away at home in Laguna Woods, California on March 20, 2003 at 94 years. She was predeceased by her husband, Samuel. She is survived by her daughters Sandra (Barry Josephson, MD) of Irvine, California and Bernice (Clifford Newbury) of Canada; granddaughters Elaine, Ka
 SISKIND-Claire (Wassner). On March 24, 2003. Caring daughter of Sidney and Lee Wassner. Devoted niece of Sadie Pearson. Beloved wife of Barry. Loving mother of Jeffrey and Nancy, Stephen and Laura, Jill and Jeffrey. Adored grandmother of Andrew, Sam, Elizabeth, Max, Cara, Melanie, Shelby & 
 Peggy Conklin, a stage actress who found early success in ''The Petrified Forest'' in 1936 and followed it with a wide variety of dramatic and comic roles on Broadway, died last Tuesday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 96. Ms. Conklin had leading or featured roles from the 1930's
 FALK-Ida. Wife of the late Dr. Hyman I. Falk, passed away peacefully, March 24, at the age of 93, of full mind and spirit. Mother of Linda Berris, Dr. George Falk, Helene Messinger, Leah Pinkas and Nancy Strong. Grandmother of 14, great-grandmother of 21. She was a woman of valor.       
 FREEDMAN-Frieda Simon. Loved and loving mother and grandmother, sister and aunt. On March 25, in her time and season, at 93. Wife of the late Samuel. Mother of Lewis (Cynthia) and grandmother of Samuel. Sister to Honey (Henry) Swartz; aunt to Marcia (Lenny) Ross and Jeffrey (Sherrill); grea
 NOBLE-Anne Zabriskie), 76. Of Pasadena, CA on March 22, 2003. Beloved wife of John; loving mother of Christiane Citron of Denver, CO; Alisande Citron of London; Steven Citron of Purdys, NY; sister of Helen Jaffray; and grandmother of three. Former wife of the late Casper Citron of New York.
 PAVLIK-Brenda. 50. Died on February 19, 2003, after a brief battle with lung cancer. She was the founder/CEO of Frou Frou te, a national manufacturer of women's fashion accessories, and formerly worked as VP of NYC-based Equitable Petroleum Corporation. She lived in Manhattan for more than 
 POLLACK-Barbara. Temple Beth El of Northern Westchester mourns the passing of our beloved member Barbara Pollack. To her loved ones, we extend our deepest sympathy. Joshua M. Davidson, Rabbi Stephen J. Adler, President       
 SMITH-Miriam (Mimi) Bresler, 55, beloved, adored, and esteemed mother, wife, friend and colleague who loved and lived with all of her might. Mimi gave her whole self in caring for others as a psychologist in special education for almost two decades and as a friend, neighbor, mother, daughte
 TARLOW-Sandra Carlson. March 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Richard Tarlow. Loving mother of Cody, Wendy and Jordan. Devoted sister of Jamie, Bob and Storm. Cherished daughter of Veronica. She was President of Carlson and Partners Advertising. Service Thursday, March 27, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campb
 WIENER-Ruth. Passed away peacefully on March 25, 2003. Cherished wife of the late Arthur, mother of Patricia, and grandmother of Tara. Beloved friend to everyone who knew her. Her warmth and kindness will surround us forever. Graveside services Thursday, 11:30AM, at Montefiore Cemetery, Que
 Sandy Carlson Tarlow, an advertising executive who was responsible for defining the public face of Polo Ralph Lauren for almost a quarter century, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Richard Tarlow. Mrs. Tarlow had been i
 BIRD-Julie. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear member Julie Bird. A wonderful designer, she brought much liveliness and enthusiasm into our midst. We will miss her terribly. Our deepest sympathies to her daughter Kelly Pierre, granddaughter Oona Pierre and sister Jane Perin. The
 BONNER-Mary, 75. Died peacefully on March 16, 2003 in Miami, Florida in the care of her husband Arthur. She leaves behind Arthur, her daughter Jane, her sons Sebastian and Rahul and three adoring grandchildren. Mary was the long-time producer of the daytime television series ''Another World
 TARLOW-Sandra Carlson. March 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Richard Tarlow. Loving mother of Cody, Wendy and Jordan. Devoted sister of Jamie, Bob and Storm. Cherished daughter of Veronica. She was President of Carlson and Partners Advertising. Service Thursday, March 27, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campb
 LAWRENCE-Janet Walling. Age 82, of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on March 26. Mrs. Lawrence was predeceased by her husband, John Townsend Lawrence, former President of William Morrow & Co., publishers. A woman of uncommon spirit, Mrs. Lawrence is survived by Mrs. George W. Carmany III of Bost
 O'CALLAGHAN-Bridget T. (nee Murphy). Born in Cartron, Drumlish, County Longford, Ireland. Passed away on March 26, 2003, at the age of 98 in Queens, New York. Beloved wife of the late Patrick and mother of Thomas, now deceased. Survived by her sons, James and John; her niece, Mary Lennon; s
 STAMM-Isabel L. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with sorrow the death of Professor Emerita Isabel L. Stamm on March 20th in Northhampton, MA. A distinguished social casework teacher and practitioner for 26 years, she
 CARLSON TARLOW-Sandy. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a wonderful talent and human being, Sandy Carlson Tarlow. Sandy will be forever missed. Our deepest sympathies, thoughts and prayers to her beloved husband, Dick Tarlow. DDB Worldwide Communications Group Inc Ken Kaess, CEO and Pre
 CHWATT - Ida, 95, went peacefully in her sleep at home, to join her late husband Samuel. Cherished sister of Betty Altstein. Beloved mother of Eddie and Sara, Richard and Robyn, and daughters-in-law Sunny and Mara. Adoring grandmother of Mitchell and Sara, Jill, Glenn and Lori, Eric and Nan
 GROSSMAN-Viola (Vicki), nee Calvo. Age 65, died peacefully at her home after a yearlong illness. Vicki was a strong, loving woman who took great pride in her family and home. She is survived by Michael, her loving husband of 43 years, and devoted children Jodi Nass (Herb), David (Daryn), an
 KLONSKY-Sally M., 92. Died in Redding, PA., March 28, 2003. Her husband Cantor Benjamin Klonsky died in 1994. Born in Russia, she was the daughter of the late Kobriner Rebbe Baruch Yosef and Yetta Sack. Survived by 4 children, eight grandchildren, seven great grandchildren, predeceased by t
 LAWRENCE-Janet Walling. Age 82, of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on March 26. Mrs. Lawrence was predeceased by her husband, John Townsend Lawrence, former President of William Morrow & Co., publishers. A woman of uncommon spirit, Mrs. Lawrence is survived by Mrs. George W. Carmany III of Bost
 PALTIEL-Freda L., CM, CSW, MPH. Wife of the late Khayyam Z. Passed away with quiet dignity after a heroic struggle on March 28, 2003. Mourned by her children, Jeremy and Candida of Toronto, and Ari and Ora of Jerusalem, Israel. Funeral service in Ottawa, Canada on Sunday, March 30, 2003 at 
 ABRAMS-Sylvia (nee Barnett). Age 96, resident of Bal Harbor, FL. Formerly of New York City. Wife of the late Frank Abrams. Mourned by her sons Donald, Douglas and Barrie, her eight grandchildren and her great-grandson.       
 AXELRAD - Judith. On March 28, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Lillian and Sidney. She will be deeply missed by her dear friends and her extended family at The Association for the Help of Retarded Children. Service Monday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 CHWATT - Ida, 95, went peacefully in her sleep at home, to join her late husband Samuel. Cherished sister of Betty Altstein. Beloved mother of Eddie and Sara, Richard and Robyn, and daughters-in-law Sunny and Mara. Adoring grandmother of Mitchell and Sara, Jill, Glenn and Lori, Eric and Nan
 FAULKNER-Carole Lanita. Passed away on March 26, 2003. Beloved mother of Christopher and Kimberly Faulkner and sister of Robert, Earl and Cheryl Hill. She was formerly married to Bernard Faulkner. Memorial Service will be held Monday, March 31, 11AM at the Riverside Church, Christ Chapel, 4
 GORNSTON-Marie Wiley, 94. Eugene, Ore. Formerly Jamaica Estates. Died March 8. Admired and loved by all who knew her.       
 GROSSMAN-Viola (Vicki), nee Calvo. Age 65, died peacefully at her home after a yearlong illness. Vicki was a strong, loving woman who took great pride in her family and home. She is survived by Michael, her loving husband of 43 years, and devoted children Jodi Nass (Herb), David (Daryn), an
 ROBERTS - Joan Brown. Died March 24, 2003. Survived by her son Curtis Roberts, her granddaughter Jane Roberts, and Mrs. Euguene Goldberg, her sister. Services were private; a memorial service is planned.       
 Anne Logan Davis Wichern, a lung specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and professor emeritus at New York University who established one of the country's first emphysema clinics, died March 9. She was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, her family said, and s
 CHESTER-Lenore. An extraordinary and compelling woman, adored and admired by her predeceased husband, Eugene, and her entire family. Services Monday, 10 AM, Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.       
 CHWATT-Ida. With profound sorrow, we mourn the loss of this dear and special lady. She enriched the lives of all who were fortunate to have known and loved her. Sorely missed but never forgotten, as her family remembers fondly their cherished times together. Sincerest condolences to the fam
 COHN-Anna. On March 28th. Beloved wife of the late Morton Cohn. Devoted mother of Racia (Roni) Jame Newman. Cherished grandmother of David Jame. Loving greatgrandmother of Abigail and Robert Jame. Donations can be made to The American Cancer Society in her memory.       
 DIENER-Beatrice. A woman of valor, she died peacefully on March 29, 2003, at her home in Elizabeth, NJ. Deeply beloved mother of Marjorie, Larry and Adele. Cherished grandmother of Allen and Janis, Larry, Richard and Shani, Jason, Marc and Lauren. Adored great-grandmother of Mitchel, Gabrie
 DUNCAN - Barbara Doyle. Latin American scholar, curator and collector died at 82. She is survived by her husband of 62 years, John C. Duncan; daughters Lynn Tarbox of Tampa, FL, and Gale Simmons of New York City; son Craig Duncan of Greenwich, CT; five grandchildren and two great-grandchild
