 Helen R. Kaufman, a philanthropist and community volunteer who was the widow of Irving R. Kaufman, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York, died on Feb. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 84. Mrs. Kaufman
 Inna Zubkovskaya, a leading ballerina in the Kirov Ballet when that Russian company first appeared in the West, died on Feb. 5 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 77. The Kirov was at a peak but unfamiliar to ballet audiences throughout the world until 1961. Ms. Zubkovskaya led the t
 ADASKO-Beulah. On February 26. Beloved wife for 52 years of Joseph; devoted mother of Lauren and Lee; mother-in-law of Carol and the late Fred Lercher; loving grandmother of Chase, Chelsea, Danny and Chandler. She was a devoted sister, friend and charitable person.       
 ALDAN-Daisy. Poet, Actress, Editor, Publisher and Translator, died Monday at Kateri Residence in New York City. She was 82. Ms. Aldan is survived by a brother, Perry, of Delray Beach, Florida and sister-in-law, Etta Finfer, of Los Angeles, California. Funeral services will be held on Friday
 FISCHER-Anne of Lido Beach, NY on February 26, 2001. Beloved wife of Albert, devoted mother to John, Christopher, Marianne and Carol, and loving grandmother to their eight children. She is survived by cherished sisters Jeanne Elliott and Mariel Clark and many nieces and nephews. She will be
 LAWRY-Sylvia. The Corinne Goldsmith Dickinson Center for Multiple Sclerosis at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine is deeply saddened by the passing of Sylvia Lawry. Mrs. Lawry was the undisputed leader and pioneer in thefight against multiple sclerosis. We shall all miss her greatly. Fred L
 ROBBINS-Dorothy. On February 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Allan. Loving mother of Susan (Jacob) and Nancy (Michel). Devoted grandmother of Simon (Elizabeth) and Amy. Great-grandmother of Margaret and William. Service Thursday, 11:30AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. 
 WHITE-Sister Marie. A beloved member of the Sisters of Charity died Wednesday, February 28, 2001. Dear sister of Martin White. Also survived by her cousins. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY on Thursday from 1 to 8 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial Friday 9:
 BRICKMAN-Alice. 73, of Long Boat Key, Florida and Franklin Lakes, New Jersey. Died February 27, 2001. Alice was born September 9, 1927 in Brooklyn, New York. She was a graduate of New York University, and devoted her life to her family, friends and many philanthropic endeavors. Alice was a 
 CLARKE-Ruth Herzog. Died on February 27, 2001 at the age of 82 at Venice, Florida. She was born in New York City and lived and worked there before moving to Silver Spring, Maryland and Venice, Florida. She graduated from Hunter College and Katherine Gibbs School in New York City, working ma
 CRITCHLOW-Mary Ellen. Of Brooklyn Heights, NY, died on Tuesday, February 27, 2001, at NYU Medical Center in New York City after a brief illness. Born on October 27, 1947, in Saratoga Springs, NY, she was the daughter of Katharine B. Donnelly of Queensbury and the late John J. Donnelly. She 
 GLATZER-Henriette. The American Group Psychotherapy Association mourns the passing of Dr. Henriette Glatzer, one of its most esteemed members. A former President and Distinguished Fellow of the Association, she was the first woman and the first psychologist to serve as its chief elected off
 GREENSTEIN - Marion, died peacefully on February 25 at home of Cancer, age 71. Devoted wife to late husband Jack. Beloved mother of Nina and David. Loving grandmother of Spencer, Harry and Jessie. We will always remember her abounding energy, enthusiasm and zest for living a full life. Memo
 WHITE-Sister Marie. A beloved member of the Sisters of Charity died Wednesday, February 28, 2001. Dear sister of Martin J. White. Loving sister-in-law of Mary Ellen. Also survived by her cousins. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY on Thursday from 1 to 8 
 BEIDLER-Norma. Age 74 on March 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Sheppard. Loving mother of Patricia and Joseph Appel, Barbara and Richard Brewster, David and Amy Beidler. Grandmother of Jonathan and Elizabeth Appel and Darrah Brewster. Loving daughter of the late William and Rose. Sister o
 CASTANEIRA-Michelle of Miami, FL. October 1, 1967-February 25, 2001. Beloved friend, devoted mother to Alyssa. Positive life force to all her friends and family. You will always be in our hearts.       
 DRILLING-Dena (Daisy Rubin) of Jamaica Estates and Hollywood, FL died March 1 at 88. Beloved mother of Ronald, Kenneth and Steven. Loving grandmother to Deborah, Cynthia, Tiffany, Bruce, Michelle, Willow and Michael. Great grandmother of four. She will be missed by all those privileged to h
 GOLDBERG-Joan. The entire New York Community Hospital family mourns the loss of Joan Goldberg, a loving and dear friend of the Hospital for more than 18 years. Joan, a member of the Board of Trustees, made substantial contributions to the Hospital and its community. Our condolences to her s
 MANN-Frances. 83, died February 27, 2001. Temple Gates of Zion of Valley Stream is deeply saddened and mourns the passing of Frances, a longtime friend and a guiding force of the Temple. Wife of the late Cantor Emeritus David Mann and mother to her late son Daniel. Our deepest sympathy to h
 SHIMONOV-Patricia D., 51, of New York, NY on Thursday, March 1 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Chaim Shimonov, and her sons, Perry and Aidan. Mrs. Shimonov is also survived by her mother, Mary Dunphy (nee Young), her sisters, Linda Lelii and Mary Sholtis a
 TOPKINS-Olive V. Died February 27, 2001 at 87. Sister of Dr. Paul and the late Matthew. Beloved aunt of Phyllis, Jane, Madeline, Robert, Elyse and Vicki. Cherished great aunt. Olive was a treasured friend to countless people. She will be remembered and missed for her unwavering patience, ki
 BEIDLER-Norma. Age 74 on March 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Sheppard. Loving mother of Patricia and Joseph Appel, Barbara and Richard Brewster, David and Amy Beidler. Grandmother of Jonathan and Elizabeth Appel and Darrah Brewster. Loving daughter of the late William and Rose. Sister o
 COFFEY-Josephine M. (nee Campbell). Age 82. Died peacefully at her home on March 1, 2001. Devoted wife of Jeremiah P. Coffey for sixty years. Loving mother of Josephine, Jeremiah, Patrick, James, Catherine, Justin, Moira, Helen and Jane. Loving grandmother of Matthew, Erin, John, Carolyn, O
 DAVIDSON - Helen Breed (''Wickie'') of Margate on February 21, 2001. Daughter of the late Richard Breed and Helen Fling Breed, she was formerly married to Dr. Donald Davidson of Margate. She was a descendant of Breeds Hill and General George Meade. Survivors are her four children, Dr. Gail 
 DONOVAN-Rosalind D. The Board of Directors, staff, and members of SHARE, Self-help for Women with Breast or Ovarian Cancer, are deeply saddened by the loss of our past Board President. Rosalind founded and nurtured HarlemSHARE, paving our way toward greater diversity. We will miss her.     
 DRILLING-Dena (Daisy Rubin) of Jamaica Estates and Hollywood, FL died March 1 at 88. Beloved mother of Ronald, Kenneth and Steven. Loving grandmother to Deborah, Cynthia, Tiffany, Bruce, Michelle, Willow and Michael. Great grandmother of four. She will be missed by all those privileged to h
 FRANK-Helen S. On February 25, 2001, in Boston, MA. Age 88. Resident of Needham, MA., formerly of Westchester County, N.Y. Wife of the late Martin Frank. Mother of David Freund of New York City and Elizabeth Fideler of Framingham, MA., and the late Susan Lamb and John Freund. She is also su
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Jeanne Dorfman. On February 23 after four years of pulmonary fibrosis. Born in 1924 in Monroe, LA, she had a B.A. (1945) from Oberlin College. She worked for 16 years for the National Foundation as it led the fight against polio. In 1964, she earned a law degree (J.D.) from NY
 HOROWITZ-Zelda. Cachet Products Inc. mourns the passing on February 25, 2001, of Zelda Horowitz, wife of our late founder, Henry Horowitz. Our deepest condolences to the Rosier and Horowitz families and to the many who knew and loved her. Her great warmth and energy will be sorely missed. .
 KAPLAN-Paulette, 77. On February 17, 2001 of a heart attack at her home in North Miami Beach, FL. Former resident of NYC. Loving aunt to Harvey and Dara, greataunt to Melissa, Vicki and Muffy, and stepmother to Lewis. Revered and loved by all at her residence in North Miami and in NY. Buria
 MEHLMAN-Madelyn B. The New York City Law Department mourns the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Madelyn Mehlman. Her keen mind and kind spirit graced us all and will never be forgotten. Our sincerest condolences to her loving family.       
 RICHTER-Leila (Lee), 86, on March 1, 2001. Mrs. Richter was born in Columbus, Ohio on April 3, 1914. A lover of life and New York, and a survivor of the Manhasset Apartments fire, she was cherished by her friends for her strength, kindness and good humor. A memorial contribution may be made
 STANFIELD-Milly B. Peacefully, on February 14, at age 101, in West Orange, NJ. Well known cellist, teacher, writer; formerly of London, graduate of the Royal Academy of Music; correspondent 40 years for the Strad and other music journals; author of ''The Intermediate Cellist,'' and collabor
 STORM-Florence. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Jericho, NY. Died February 28, 2001. Devoted wife of Harry. Loving mother of Larry and Laurie and the late Scott. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Claudia, son-inlaw Larry, and four grandchildren, David, Michael, Anna and Matthew. She wi
 TAISHOFF-Ruth Saltzman. On March 2, 2001. Devoted mother of Barbara Dash and Muriel Wolf, and mother-in-law of David Dash and Michael Batura. Cherished grandmother of Evan and Amy Dash, and Matthew Dash, and great-grandmother of Daniel Dash. Loving sister of Arnold and Joan Saltzman and aun
 TENEBRUSO-Nicholas. March 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Diane. Devoted father of Jill and her husband Cliff, and Marc. Loving brother of Charles, Leona and James. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. For funeral information, ca
 TOPKINS-Olive V. Died February 27, 2001 at 87. Sister of Dr. Paul and the late Matthew. Beloved aunt of Phyllis, Jane, Madeline, Robert, Elyse and Vicki. Cherished great aunt. Olive was a treasured friend to countless people. She will be remembered and missed for her unwavering patience, ki
 Margaret Tafoya, whose nimble, ingenious hands turned the chocolate-colored clay of her New Mexico pueblo into black-on-black and red-on-red pottery of such profound and graceful beauty that it acquired a global reputation, died on Feb. 25 at her home in Santa Clara Pueblo near Santa Fe. Sh
 KAHANE-Beatrice. Passed away March 4, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Judith and Sol Tane and the late Bertram. Devoted grandmother of Seth, David and Joshua. Dear great-grandmother of Jesse, Casey, Nora, Ruth, Shem, Olivia and Vanessa.       
 MEAGHER-C. Sheila. Of New York City, on February 27 at age 75, after a long illness. She was born in Brooklyn, NY, daughter of the late Peter W. and Julia Sullivan Meagher and sister of the late Monica M. Brinson. She was a graduate of St. Joseph's College in Brooklyn, NY. Sheila enjoyed a 
 ROTHEIM-Evelyn. On February 22, 2001 in her 91st year. Funeral private.       
 FEINSTEIN-Rose, 94. Wife of the late Aaron ''Tutty'' Feinstein, loving mother of Lynn and Ron Koenig, adoring grandmother to Brad and Lauren, Ken and Rene, Lori and Mitchell, and great grandmother to Austin, Kyle, Jessica, Jenny, Katie, and Alex, loving aunt. May she rest in peace. Intermen
 FROST-Joan Alice. Of Woodstock, CT, formerly of Wilton, CT, died on February 17, 2001 at The Tandet Center in Stamford, CT. She was 85 years old. She was born in Paignton, England, and was the younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W.J. Matthews, of Worthing, Sussex, England. She was a Second Off
 HARDING-Margaret. Margaret Riker Harding died at her home in New York City on March 3, 2001, from melanoma. Daughter of the late William Chandler Riker and the late Mary Jackson Riker of New York and Rumson, New Jersey. Wife of John Mason Harding and mother of Stephen, Katherine, Thomas, Ma
 MARGOLIS-Deborah (Pessin). On Saturday, March 3, in her 92nd year, of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Benjamin D. Margolis. Loving mother of Helen and Melvin Michael of Newton, MA. Devoted grandmother of Daniel and Emily Michael. Graveside services were held at Temple Emeth Memo
 POLLOCK-Max. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Max Pollock, beloved father of Gloria Milner. We extend our deepest condolences to Gloria and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 VENET-Wanda. Beloved wife of the late Louis Venet, M.D. Survived by brother Richard Robertson, stepchildren Margery, Kate, Daniel and Claudia Venet, and grandchildren Casey and Arleigh. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Louis Venet, M.D. Breast Disease Service at Beth Isra
 BRANDON-Esther. 95, 3/5/01. Beloved wife of Hippolyte Marcus Wertheim and Ralph Brandon, mother of Joan Carris, Patricia Abrams, Audrey Phelps and Susan Bayer, 8 grandchildren, 3 greatgrandchildren. She will be greatly missed and lovingly remembered.       
 COPLEMAN-Rosalyn R. On March 4, 2001. Loving and beloved widow of Dr. Hyman B. Copleman of New Brunswick and Highland Park, N.J. Devoted daughter of Anna R. and David Rosenberg of Toms River, N.J., dear sister-inlaw of Paul H. Shapiro of Hillside, N.J. She is survived by her beloved family:
 EISENBERG-Miriam. Age 81, a long-term resident of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away on March 6, 2001 after a mercifully short but unsuccessful battle with cancer. She was originally from Newark, NJ and subsequently lived in Maplewood, NJ for many years. Miriam is survived by her husband and lif
 ERICKSON-Margery O. Died February 21, 2001. Memorial service will be at Carleton-Willard Village, 100 Old Billerica Road, Bedford MA., on March 9, 10:30 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be sent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, attention Development Office, 1000 5th 
 FREIBERG-Sheila Muller. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Sheila Muller Freiberg, a dear friend of the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences to her beloved daughters and their husbands, Patricia and S. W
 HARDING-Margaret. Margaret Riker Harding died at her home in New York City on March 3, 2001, from melanoma. Daughter of the late William Chandler Riker and the late Mary Jackson Riker of New York and Rumson, New Jersey. Wife of John Mason Harding and mother of Stephen, Katherine, Thomas, Ma
 HIRSCHFIELD-Lottie. Beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother, passed away March 5. She is survived by her son Jack, her grandchildren, Rina, Amie, Scot; her great grandchildren Rachel and Benjamin. Graveside service supervised by Direct Family Funeral to be held at Baron Hirsch Cemete
 LOTH-Jean. Women's American ORT joins the Loth family in mourning the passing of Jean Loth. The members of WAO are honored to have known and worked with Mrs. Loth who was dedicated to the WAO mission and served the organization in many capacities. Among her many valued roles, Mrs. Loth was 
 TAISHOFF-Ruth Saltzman. I am deeply saddened and mourn the passing of my dear friend for over 35 years and then the joy of having her become family as the wife, for too short a period, because of the death of my loving brother Gilbert. My husband Charles, family and I will always cherish ha
 THATCHER-Margaret ''Peg''. Of Jackson Heights passed away on Saturday, March 3rd at Cabrini Hospices, New York, NY, beloved wife of the late John Thatcher Jr. Prior to her retirement she was an Executive Secretary for the Rockefeller Foundation. Graveside services on Saturday 2 PM Dunmore C
 BARLAND-Marion. 95 years old. Passionately devoted mother of Peter. Grandmother of Susan and Julie. Great grandmother of Ben. A woman of rare intelligence, love and independence. She will be missed by her entire family and friends. Funeral service Thursday, 12 noon at Riverside, 21 West Bro
 GLATZER-Dr. Henrietta. The Trustees and Faculty of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies mourn the death of Dr. Henrietta Glatzer, a distinguished member of our Advisory Board. Dr. Glatzer's professional and personal support were deeply valued. Our deepest condolences go to h
 GOLDSTEIN-Adelaide. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 JONES-Jean Campbell. On March 3, after a five month battle with cancer. Beloved wife for 41 years of the late Cranston Jones; loving mother of Baird of New York City, and Abigail of Beverly Hills, CA. Good humored mother-in-law of Jeff Mandell and cherished grandmother of Alexander and Juli
 TAISHOFF-Ruth Saltzman. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Ruth Saltzman Taishoff, our esteemed colleague. A generous benefactor and devoted leader, she was instrumental in developing the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem. Our heartfelt condolences go to her
 WAINE-Edith Sutro, 93, died March 4, 2001 in Stamford, CT. Born Manila, PI to Anna Sutro & Maurice F. Loewenstein. Attended Ethical Culture School and Vassar College. Widow of Hans Waine, MD. Lifelong association with the Ntnl. Student Fed. In 1990, received the Award of Merit from the Ntnl
 Margaret Riker Harding, an educator who spent 44 years on the faculty of the Brearley School in Manhattan, died March 3 at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 68. The cause was melanoma, her family said. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Harding graduated from Vassar College in 1
 Dame Ninette de Valois, the founder of England's Royal Ballet and a major British choreographer, died yesterday at her home in London. She was 102. With keen vision and unflagging energy, Dame Ninette guided one of the 20th century's greatest ballet companies. It was under h
 AMES-Helen, 91. On February 26, 2001, known as Helen Alexander, ''Nightingale of The Airwaves'' during Major Bowes 1930s Capital Family Hour. Helen will be remembered for her soprano voice and quick wit. An icon of The Upper West Side's Ansonia, she was a true free thinker, and her zest for
 BARTOW-Elizabeth Vaux, 85, of Boca Grande, Florida, died Tuesday, March 6, 2001 at Bon Secours Venice Hospital. She was born April 23, 1915 in Philadelphia, PA and came to Boca Grande, FL 25 years ago from Tuxedo Park, NY. She was a member of St. Andrews Episcopal Church in Boca Grande. Sur
 BLOOMINGDALE - Gwendolyn, 59, of Provincetown, MA and Cape Canaveral, FL, March 6. Beloved daughter of Gwen Gaillard of Nantucket, beloved mother of Andrew B. Bloomingdale and his wife Debra (Beacham) of Rockport, MA; beloved sister of Jennifer Nelson and her husband George of Milton, MA, P
 LAUTERBACH-Lillian M. On March 7, 2001 in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late John. Devoted mother of Lynn and Donald. Cherished grandmother of Sandra Lynn. Reposing at LLoyd Fuenral Home, 39th Avenue at 215 Street, Bayside, NY. Service Sunday 2PM. Funeral Monday 9AM. Visitation Saturda
 SCHATTNER-Bertha. 101. On March 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Mother of Adele and Herman Brav, Henry and Shirley Lipper, Bernard and Norma Schattner. Passed away after a prolong illness. She is survived by eight grandchildren and 13 great grandchildren. She was a survivor of the
 FREGEAU-Georgia M. March 8, 2001 at Connecticut Hospice, Branford, CT. She was a Sister of Charity at Mt. St. Vincent's, and she was a teacher at Somers High School. A memorial Mass will be held Tuesday, March 13th, 11:30 AM at St. Margaret's RC Church, Madison, CT. Friends may call at Swan
 Portia Nelson, a cabaret singer, songwriter, actress and author who was one of the most beloved New York nightclub performers of the 1950's, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Nelson became a cabaret legend in the 1950's with her appearances in clubs like Caf√
 ARONOWITZ-Florence. The entire Boys Town Jerusalem family mourns the loss of a very special friend, wife of our esteemed Board member, Gil Aronowitz, who considered our students ''her'' boys. Florence was a partner in life and tzedakah with her beloved husband and they transmitted to their 
 CAMPBELL-Joan M. On March 7, 2001, of Springtown, PA, formerly of Bronx, NY. Beloved wife of Ronald Moss. Beloved daughter of the late Daniel J. Scanlon and Nora (nee Tuomey) Scanlon. Devoted mother of Robert B. Campbell of Tokyo, Japan, and Rachel and her husband Christopher Field of North
 DOBROF-Alfred. The Board and staff of the New York Foundation extend our deepest sympathies to our valued longtime board member, Rose Dobrof, and to her entire family on the death of her husband, Alfred.       
 FRIED-Fan. Wife of Isadore Fried (deceased), died March 7, in her 91st year, in Albany, NY. Founding members of Three Arrows Cooperative Society, active participants in the life and growth of Three Arrows. We extend our condolences to children, Eric (and Joanna) Fried, Ellen (and Bob) Franc
 JONES-Jean Campbell. On March 3, after a five month battle with cancer. Beloved wife for 41 years of the late Cranston Jones; loving mother of Baird of New York City, and Abigail of Beverly Hills, CA. Good humored mother-in-law of Jeff Mandell and cherished grandmother of Alexander and Juli
 LaBEET-Olga Jarvis. 76 died in New Rochelle, NY. Harlem native and longtime resident of New Rochelle, she was the retired principal of NYC P.S. 134, and the Martha Neilson School. Co-Founder and Co-Director of Samaritan Women's After School Program, located at La Hermosa Church inNYC. Left 
 NELSON-Portia. Our beloved Portia was granted her wings on the morning of March 6. Both onstage and off, this extraordinary and caring woman inspired us all with her talent, courage, wisdom, and genuine goodness. Her music and love will live on in our hearts forever. A memorial celebration 
 WOLFERT-Ruth. The New York Institute for Gestalt Therapy mourns the passing of an esteemed member, psychotherapist, teacher and writer. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family.       
 WOOD-Elsie Hunter, 92. Passed away quietly on Wednesday morning, February 21st, 2001, after complications from a fall. She had been a resident of Kendal-Crosslands Communities, a Quaker sponsored retirement community in Kennett Square, PA, for the past twelve years. Elsie Hunter Wood was bo
 ZIEGELBAUM-Violet Rose. Very recently pre-deceased by her beloved husband of 55 years, Jerry. Devoted mother of Ira and Philip and mother-in-law of Joanne. Cherished grandmother of Sara and Josh. Services Monday, 1 PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, Ne
 ALPERT-Helen Mills. Died March 9, 2001. Beloved and loving wife of William. Cherished mother of Peter and Dale, and Patricia and Stanley Stempler. Darling grandmother of Rebecca and Rachel, dear sister of Martin Mills, Stanley and Judy Mills, beloved aunt. Services Monday, March 12, at 11:3
 CARTER-Mary L. Age 96, of Brick, NJ, on March 5, 2001. She was employed as a secretary for Archdiocese of NY for 40 years until her retirement in 1969. Surviving are her brother William Carter of Brick, NJ. Relatives and friends are kindly invited to attend the funeral services from ''The F
 COLEMAN-Elaine. It is with sadness that the members and Board of Governors at Rockrimmon Country Club note the passing of their friend and member, and extend their sympathy to her family. Ben Evans, President       
 DICKER-Vivian M. Age 82, on March 4, in her home in Scarsdale, NY. Devoted, loving mother of Owen G. Dicker. Beloved sister of Judge Millard L. Midonick and sister-in-law of Jill Claster Midonick and Milton and Shirley Dicker; widow of Richard Dicker, formerly CEO of the Penn Central Railro
 KAVANAGH-Mary Linus. Of West Bay Shore, peacefully at home on March 9, 2001, in her 88th year. Formerly of Farmingdale, LI, and her beloved Brooklyn. Cherished wife of the late Rondzo P. Beloved mother of Eileen (West Bay Shore), Eugene (Morristown, TN) and his wife Peggy. Devoted grandmoth
 LANDA - Fanny (Faye), nee Schneier. Died peacefully in her home on March 10, 2001. She was the beloved wife of the late George P. Landa and the most adoring and cherished aunt and great-aunt. All who knew her were taken by her charm, grace, beauty, style and wit. We will always remember wit
 LAW-Joan ''Jan''. 70, of New York City died March 10, 2001, at Noble Horizons in Salisbury, CT. Miss Law was born October 15, 1930, in NYC, a daughter of the late Clyde and Myrtle (Rexroth) Law. Miss Law was a buyer for Sak's Fifth Avenue for over 25 years. Prior to that, she had worked for
 POSNER-Dorothy Katz. March 10, 2001. An incredible personality that lit up the lives of everyone she met. Mother, sister, grandmother. We will miss her terribly. Marjorie, Laurie, Steve Jennifer and Aaron       
 TIEDER-Myra. Died March 10, 2001, age 87. Devoted wife 64 years of William. Loving mother of Martha and Bob Plotnick, Susan and Sy Allis. Devoted grandmother to William and Jacqueline Grae, Eric Grae, Beth and Victor Wittenberg, Marnina Allis. Special greatgrandmother to Talia Wittenburg. S
 CARROLL - Edith McWilliams. Age eighty-one, died at Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA on Saturday, March 10, 2001. Her husband Ralph C. Carroll, Jr. of Greenwich, CT predeceased her. She is survived by her daughter Margaret C. Tattersall of Lawrenceville, NJ, granddaughter Edith C. Tattersall a
 DICKER-Vivian M. Age 82, on March 4, in her home in Scarsdale, NY. Devoted, loving mother of Owen G. Dicker. Beloved sister of Millard L. Midonick and sister-inlaw of Jill Claster Midonick and Milton and Shirley Dicker; widow of Richard Dicker, formerly CEO of the Penn Central Railroad Corp
 EDWARDS-Lillian. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society are deeply saddened by the loss of Lillian Edwards of Houston and Palm Beach, a devoted supporter. As Technion Guardians, she and her late husband Milton demonstrated the highest level of commitment to the Ameri
 GLAZAR-Susan Gayle Hope, of Norwalk, CT. on March 11, 2001. Beloved wife of Donald Glazar. Loving step-mother of Brett Glazar of Ft. Collins, CO. Dear sister of AM Goldkrand and her husband John of Savannah, GA. Devoted aunt of Howard S. Goldkrand and Judith Ellen Cheskin. Graveside service
 GRAESSER-Pauline Erma, 92, New York City, beloved wife of the late Walter Max Graesser, died peacefully on March 9, 2001 at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. Born in Lockport NS Canada on August 19, 1908, she came to New York and married Walter Graesser on April 18, 1931. They had no ch
 GROSSBARD-Sophie (Maroz). On Monday, March 12, of Canton, MA, formerly of New York City. Born in Wabash, Indiana, on September 24, 1908, where she graduated from Wabash College. She received her Master of Social Work degree from Columbia University. She worked and taught lifelong in New Yor
 NEWMAN-Laurette E. Age 96 of New York, N.Y. Died peacefully at home on March 11, 2001, surrounded by her family. Loving widow of George F. Newman and mother of Francis X. Newman of Binghamton, N.Y. and Patricia A. Saunders of New York. She is also survived by grandchildren Kate Newman, Thom
 NEWMAN-Madelon. Peacefully on March 12, 2001. Wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother of Kathryn Steinberg, Suzette and Michael Newman, Liz Lange, Jane Wagman, Kent Newman, Gus, Alice and Anna. Wife of the late Ferd Newman. She loved us very much.       
 PETTAS-Mary, PhD. On March 12, 2001. Professor Emeritus of New York University. Survived by her loving sister Anastasia Solomita and dear cousin Agnes Garr. Repossing Thomas M. Quinn & Sons Funeral Home, 35-20 Broadway, Long Island City, New York. Funeral services on Wednesday 10AM at St. D
 RIGGS-Geraldine Elissa. Died March 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Leonard and mother of Leonard, Judith and Walter. Loving grandmother of James, Wesley, Carter and Christopher. For 25 years she was teacher, guidance administrator in NYC schools. In 1982, she became Supervisor of Guidance of Bronx
 SINGER-Lillian. Age 85. Of Deerfield Beach, FL. Passed away March 6, 2001. Beloved mother of Daryl and Ray Edelstein, and Naomi Singer. Devoted sister to Al Krohnengold. She will be loved and missed forever. Donations to Scleroderma Foundation.       
 WIENER-Anne. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our esteemed member Carol Hordish and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 WUNDER-Mildred A. ''Mrs. Terry and the Pirates.'' Mildred A. Wunder (nee Smith) died quietly on March 1, 2001 in Port St. Lucie, FL after a short illness at 87. Mrs. Wunder was born in NYC on August 8, 1913 and lived most of her life in NYC and Sherman, CT. Mrs. Wunder's beloved late husban
 BAUM-Henriette. Age 94. Died March 13, 2001 peacefully at her apartment in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Morton Baum. Sister of the late Edmond Hertzberger and aunt of Anthony Hertzberger and Felicitas Schroter. She was a devoted, long-time supporter and patron of numerous cultura
 FELDMAN-Adele. The Directors, Campers and Alumni of Camp Robindel for Girls in New Hampshire are deeply sadden by the passing of Adele Feldman. As one of the Founders, she and her late husband, Paddy along, with Eli and Fanny Robinson touched and enriched the lives of many young women durin
 FISHER-Edith. 92. On March 13, 2001. Beloved mother of Barbara Haft and her husband Alfred P. Haft, Jr. Cherished grandmother of Alfred P. Haft III and William S. Haft. Funeral services Friday, 12 noon at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Interment private.
 GOTTFRIED-Vera G. Formerly of Hallandale, FL, and Buffalo, NY, died peacefully on March 13, 2001, four days after her ninetyfourth birthday. Loving & devoted mother of Judith Murray Agisim, and son-in-law Leslie, cherished grandmother of Taylor, pre-deceased by her husband Charles Gottfried
 LEBER-Lucia (nee Schwadron). Age 83, of Whitestone, New York, died peacefully March 10, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Arthur, mother of Dr. Mark, mother-in-law of Vivian and grandmother of Jessica, Stephanie and Rebecca. She was a survivor of the horrors of World War II. She was a staunch suppo
 LEOPOLD-Eunice Robinson, 84. Died peacefully at her home on March 12. She is survived by her children Ellen and John and by her granddaughters Lily and Kate. Funeral service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St., Thursday, March 15 at 10AM. No flowers please.       
 LOCKHART-George. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and deepest condolences to our dear friend and colleague Inez Kirby on the tragic passing of her husband George Lockhart. Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult time. Love, your friends at the Starlight Children's Foun
 NEWMAN-Laurette E. Age 96 of New York, N.Y. Died peacefully at home on March 11, 2001, surrounded by her family. Loving widow of George F. Newman and mother of Francis X. Newman of Binghamton, N.Y. and Patricia A. Saunders of New York. She is also survived by grandchildren Kate Newman, Thom
 NEWMAN-Madelon. Peacefully on March 12, 2001. Wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother of Kathryn Steinberg, Suzette and Michael Newman, Liz Lange, Jane Wagman, Kent Newman, Gus, Alice and Anna. Wife of the late Ferd Newman. She loved us very much.       
 ROSENTHAL-Hilda. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Hilda Rosenthal, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mrs. Rosenthal and her late husband, Imre, earned respect within the UJA-Federation family for their extraordinary gene
 SHAPIRO (Sackowitz)-Barbara. Her valiant heart failed on March 12. Wife, mother of 4, mother-inlaw, beloved ''Nanny'' to 7 grandchildren, proud great grandmother, respected dealer in antiquities for over 4 decades, W.W. II vet, redoubtable bridge player, predeceased by Ben. Died with the di
 SHEPHERD-Etta Finley. Her many friends and family mourn the passing of Etta Shepherd, after a long illness. A tireless worker for the community of New York City, she will be missed. Service for remembrance will be held at Saint Paul-Saint Andrew Methodist Church, NYC, Saturday, March 17, 20
 Helen Beling, a sculptor, died on Monday at a nursing home in Bandon, Ore. She was 87. Ms. Beling worked in various nonobjective styles, beginning with her early wood carvings, which evoked shrouded medieval German figures. She eventually worked in stone, bronze and steel before dev
 BAUM-Henriette. Age 94. Died March 13, 2001 peacefully at her apartment in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Morton Baum. Sister of the late Edmond Hertzberger and aunt of Anthony Hertzberger and Felicitas Schroter. She was a devoted, long-time supporter and patron of numerous cultura
 GOTTFRIED-Vera G. Formerly of Hallandale, FL, and Buffalo, NY, died peacefully on March 13, 2001, four days after her ninetyfourth birthday. Loving & devoted mother of Judith Murray Agisim, and son-in-law Leslie, cherished grandmother of Taylor, pre-deceased by her husband Charles Gottfried
 SIMMONS-Elizabeth Richardson. Of Hilton Head Island, SC died Monday March 12 at the Hilton Head Medical Center & Clinics. Born January 31, 1928 in Manhattan, NYC. She is the daughter of J.W.M. Richardson and Elizabeth Smith ''Bunny'' Richardson of Natchez, Mississippi, and Ardsleyon-Hudson 
 WEBER-Winifred R. Died at Palm Beach, FL on March 11, 2001. Her husband Charles predeceased her. She is survived by her nephew, Guy Kittelsen. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. on Saturday, 10AM. Interment Lutheran Cemetery.       
 ALTMANN-Dr. Minna. We extend heartfelt condolences to Dr. Vladamir Altmann and Dr. Thomas Altmann on the loss of their beloved wife and mother. A kind and gentle woman with a radiant smile, Minna's outstretched hand of kindness and exceptional devotion to Israel helped bring joy, happiness 
 BELING-Helen. 1914-2001. The Board and membership of the Sculptors Guild mourn the death of Helen Beling, former President and accomplished sculptor. We extend our sympathy to her family. A memorial service will be held this summer.       
 CHOW-Tsai-Ya Lee ''Annie''. On March 14, 2001 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Ming Cheng Chow. Cherished aunt of 24 nieces and nephews. Considered the pioneering spirit of the Lee family, she was the only daughter of six sons. She came to this country in 1934 from Shanghai China, where 
 HAWKINS-Evelyn Byrd. Died on March 13, 2001 in her 95th year. Wife of the late Dexter C. Hawkins. Mother of Evelyn B. Patterson, Eliot D. Hawkins and the late Alice C. VanTuyl. Grandmother of eight and great-grandmother of nine. Funeral service Monday, at 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Churc
 MILLER-Hilda. 1896-2001. The dear wife of the late Melville Miller died March 12, 2001. Momma has left her large beloved family. Each of us shall carry her in our hearts forever. Louise       
 ROTH-Wendy Carol. On March 14, 2001 in Santa Barbara, CA. Adored daughter of Phyllis Roth Feigenbaum and the late Jerrold Roth; sister of Richard & Charlene Roth; niece of Enid Roth and wife of Michael Tompane. She was an innovator and a creator in her life and in her work. Her spirit will 
 RUBIN-Rose. Age 89, of Allendale, NJ, formerly of Cliffside Park, NJ, on March 15, 2001. A member of Brandeis Womens Book Club. Predeased by her husband of sixty years Samuel Rubin in 1999. Survived by her daughters Judith (Joel) Dorfman of Allendale, NJ and Joan (Irwin) Leib of Silver Spri
 RUHM-Thelma. Suddenly, peacefully, March 10, 2001. Dearly beloved sister to Rita (Morris) Ossias & Joseph (Pearl) Ruhm. ''Auntie'' to Cindy, Stephen, Richard Ossias, Amy Ossias Bright, the late Michael Ossias. Thelma will be remembered for her extreme generosity, kindness to animals and zes
 Ann Sothern, a deft comedian and talented singer who was known as the Queen of the B's at Columbia and RKO, where she made 18 movies between 1934 and 1936, died on Thursday at her home in Ketchum, Idaho. She was 92. Perhaps never the star she might have been, Ms. Sothern was neverth
 Anne Cohen Heller, a medical educator known professionally as Dr. Anne C. Carter, died on Feb. 24 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and also lived in Bedford, N.Y. In 1968 she became a professor of medicine at State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. S
 ATKINSON-Ruth S., age 78, of Rossmoor, Jamesburg, NJ, passed away Wednesday, March 14th, at home. Born in NYC, she was a lifelong resident of NYC before moving to Rossmoor for approximately 15 years. She is survived by her husband, Ralph H. Atkinson of Rossmoor, her sister, Juliana Nixon of
 COONS-Ruth K. Died on March 15, 2001. She was the beloved wife of the late Henry R. Coons. She was greatly loved by her stepson Robert H. Coons and his wife Jean. She will be deeply missed by all her friends and family. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Mond
 ERGAS-Elizabeth. The Board of Governors and members of Tam O'Shanter Club are saddened by the passing of their member, Liz. Our sincere condolences are extended to her husband Leonard. Donald Freedman, President Mark Senders, Secretary       
 LOGAN-Catherine Maria Sr. Sister Catherine Maria Logan, beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, died Thursday, March 15, 2001. Survived by her nephews. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY on Sunday from 1 to 8 p.m. Mass of Christian Burial Monday 9:30a.m
 Irina Bugrimova, a Russian animal tamer who taught lions to walk a tightrope in circuses, died on Feb. 20 in Moscow. She was 90. Ms. Bugrimova was the first Russian woman to train lions and tigers, as well as a liger, a cross between the two. She wore deerskin trousers and short boo
 BERNSTEIN-Diane Stone. Beloved wife of Bernard. Passed away March 17 peacefully. She was 92 years old. She is survived by her sister and brother and her two daughters Lois and Adele and seven grandchildren. Services today at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 11:30 AM.       
 COONS-Ruth K. Died on March 15, 2001. She was the beloved wife of the late Henry R. Coons. She was greatly loved by her stepson Robert H. Coons and his wife Jean. She will be deeply missed by all her friends and family. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Mond
 FRANKEL-Estella. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases mourn the passing of Estalla Frankel, beloved mother of our President Emeritus, Victor H. Frankel, M.D. Mrs. Frankel was a remarkable, dedicated lady who inspired countless students d
 GREIFER-Bettine Schneer. Died on March 15, 2001, age 47, at her home in Beverly Hills, CA. She was the beloved wife of Adam Z. Greifer and greatly loved by her son Ben Lawrence. She will be deeply missed by her mother Shirley S. Schneer, her father Charles H. Schneer, her two sisters Lesley
 HAWKINS-Evelyn Byrd. Died on March 13, 2001 in her 95th year. Wife of the late Dexter C. Hawkins. Mother of Evelyn B. Patterson, Eliot D. Hawkins and Alice C. VanTuyl (correction). Grandmother of eight and great-grandmother of nine. Funeral service Monday, at 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal C
 JACOBSON-Rosalind (nee Buchler), ''Mrs. J,'' on March 16, 2001. She was 94. Beloved mother of Alvin and Anita Jacobson. Grandmother of Seth, Debra, Fran, Beth and Lois. Great-grandmother of Daniel, Jack and Jenna Columbini, Alex, Samantha and Rebecca Deckert, Jessica, Max and Gabrela Jacobs
 KISSEBERTH-Marie Ann (nee Gagin). On Thursday, March 15, 2001. Of Berkeley Heights, N.J. Wife of the late Irving M. Kisseberth. Mother of Joanne Heller, Leslie Ann Hauspurg and her husband Thomas, and the late James Kisseberth. Grandmother of ten grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. R
 LOGAN-Catherine Maria Sr. Sister Catherine Maria Logan, beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, died Thursday, March 15, 2001. Survived by her nephews. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY on Sunday from 1 to 8 p.m. Mass of Christian Burial Monday 9:30a.m
 PETERSON-Marion A. 79, formerly of West Nyack, NY. Died on March 16, 2001. She was predeceased by her husband Richard J. Peterson in 1999. She is survived by three sons, Richard Peterson of Falls Church, VA, Charles Peterson of Pittsburgh, PA, and Robert Peterson of Scotch Plains, NJ; eight
 RASCHKIND-Stella Utstein. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, sister-in-law, aunt, greataunt, cousin, neighbor and friend, died March 16, of heart failure at 92. Her courage, love of life and quick wit will be missed by us all. Gifts to National Council of Jewish Women.       
 RATSEY-Anne (Steckel). March 16, 2001 of Needham, MA formerly of Rye and Freeport, NY. Beloved wife of the late G. Colin Ratsey, step daughter of Penelope Hunt of London England and Doreen Eastaugh of Vancouver, Canada. Anne is also survived by her many loving and dear friends. A gathering 
 SAVITZKY-Edith. Of Lake Worth, FL and New Hyde Park, NY. Died March 16. Beloved wife of Abraham Savitzky. Born in New York City, her love of husband, children and grandchildren was the center of her life. Choosing family over a promising opera career, she enriched the lives of all who knew 
 TULCHIN-Yetta. On March 15, 2001. Graduate of the Jewish Theological Seminary, former Hadassah chapter president and esteemed teacher. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Mourned by daughters Bayla and Judith and her husband Richard. Adoring grandmother and great grandmother. Services will be h
 WATSON-Peggy Bernier. Died March 5 in Rhinebeck, NY. The singing dancing comedienne got her first show at age 15 with Al Jolson in ''Big Boy'' on Broadway. Became toast of town in Chicago with Paul Ash at the Oriental where she met husband baritone Milton Watson. She starred in ''Good News'
 ZELTNER-Edythe M. On March 16, 2001 at age 83. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Loving mother of Ina, Richard, Peter and Molli. Adoring grandmother of nine and great-grandmother of one. Dear mother-in-law of Diana, Linda and Willem. Devoted sister of Herbert and Edgar. Services at Frank E. Ca
 BLITZMAN-Sara. On March 17, 2001. Age 84. Beloved wife of Benjamin. Devoted mother of Geri and Jay. Cherished grandmother of Michelle Rose and Hallie. She was the most wonderful of homemakers, loyal of friends, proudest of aunts and a loving poet laureate to her Bell Park Jewish Center Sist
 GOLDBERG-Coleman. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club in Lake Worth, FL, wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member Rosalyn Goldberg and family on the passing of her beloved husband Coleman. Board of Governors Kenneth Mahler, President       
 JACOBSON-Rosalind. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an extraordinary woman. ''Roz'' was beloved by anyone privileged to know her. Through her generosity, she established the Rosalind Jacobson Audio-Visual Center at the Western Wall Tunnels Complex in Jerusal
 PUTTERMAN - Ceil Goldstein. Passed away on March 16, 2001. She was the beloved wife of Milton, mother of Arlene and Richard, grandmother of Avery and Tyler and sister of Ed Goldstein. She was a good friend to many, loved by all who knew her for her kind and sharing soul, her strength and co
 RETTER-Betty (nee Rosenblatt). The bright star of our family. Mourned deeply by Marcus Retter, Daniel and Margie, Allan and Brocha, David and Elky; her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, all of whom she cherished dearly; and by her loving sisters, Mary Schreiber, Margot Pollak, Leah Eis
 SCHLANGER-Esther B., 91, died peacefully in her home on March 17, 2001. ''Petey'' was an exceptional teacher of biology at many New York City high schools. After retirement from the classroom, she worked regularly with birds at the American Museum of Natural History and was an active member
 Peggy Converse, a character actress whose seven-decade career in show business included films, television and more than 100 roles in more than 1,000 theaters, died on March 2 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 95. Ms. Converse said she had appeared on stages in every major city in 
 Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. Ms. Roth, a 
 ANKER - SIMMONS - Bay. Died March 10, 2001 in Ponte Vedra, FL. Born Fannie Echols in Fort Smith, AK, she was the fourth child of Fannie Johnson Sandels and William Joseph Echols II. She married Graham Wilson Ferguson in 1950. Widow of Ronald Anker-Simmons in 1982. She is survived by her dau
 BRESSLER-Rosalind Lubetsky. Devoted wife to Martin, mother to Kenneth and Benjamin, mother-inlaw to Cindy and Laura, and grand mother to Sophie, Jason, Cole and Finlay, died March 19th. after a long illess. She leaves in addition, her sister Elaine and sister-in-law Carol, wife of her late 
 GREIFER-Bettine Schneer. We mourn the untimely passing of our beautiful first cousin. Her courage is an inspiration to us all. Jeffrey, Audrey and Amanda Karen and David Sussman       
 MANOVILL-Carolyn. On March 17, 2001 at 81 years. Daughter of Michael and Sarah Manovill. Sister of Marie Worthington Manovill. Naval Lt. at Pearl Harbor, writer and historian. She will be sorely missed by her friends Jane, Pat, Michelle and cousin Benedict. Graveside service are at Lebanon 
 MARKS-Stella, 64. Of Highland Beach, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, passed away on 3/19/ 01. She is survived by her adored mother Anne, devoted children Stuart (Cynda) Marks, Daniel (Jill) Marks and Diane (Scott) Young, cherished grandchildren Jacqueline, Elizabeth, David & Stephanie
 MILGRAM-Laura Reina, Manhattan's lady of dignity and grace, joined peace on Friday, March 16, 2001. She was 68. She danced the Opera Ball in Vienna, toured with Bob Hope in the USO, explored the globe and loved the Yankees. Her laughter filled all rooms and she will again bless the world th
 PFEIFFER-Esther Glick. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Esther Glick Pfeiffer, beloved mother of Marilynn Grossman, a respected leader in our Women's Campaign who established and chaired our Donor Connections program. 
 RETTER-Betty. The Yeshiva Beth Abraham-Slonim-Jerusalem records with deep sorrow the passing of a kind, compassionate individual. We extend our heartfelt condolences to husband Marcus Retter; sons Daniel, Alan and David; and sisters Margot Pollak, Mary Schreiber and Leah Eisenberg. May they
 RITZMANN-Johana. There when we began our work. A special person and a wonderful volunteer. The essense of intelligence, dedication and compassion. We will miss her. The Volunteers and Staff Alzheimer's Assn, NYC Chapter       
 STOLL-Barbara Jeanne. On March 18, 2001 at age 74. Beloved wife of Leonard Stoll. Loving mother of Susan Neitzke, David Feltman and Edward Feltman. Adoring grandmother of Andrew, Michael, Sarah, Mary Kate and Jake. Devoted sister of Ellie King. Dear mother-in-law of Kim and Suzanne. Cherish
 ZACK-Beatrice Bodin, 86, of NYC. Died on March 17, 2001 in Baltimore, MD. For 60 years, beloved wife of David Zack. Devoted mother of Dr. Brian Zack (and wife Virginia August) of Princeton, NJ and of Dr. Donald Zack (and wife Dr. Ellen Okun) of Baltimore, MD. Cherished grandmother of Rebecc
 ANKER - SIMMONS - Bay. Died March 10, 2001 in Ponte Vedra, FL. Born Fannie Echols in Fort Smith, AK, she was the fourth child of Fannie Johnson Sandels and William Joseph Echols II. She married Graham Wilson Ferguson in 1950. Widow of Ronald Anker-Simmons in 1982. She is survived by her dau
 BLENK-Muriel. On March 17, 2001. Beloved wife of Walter Blenk. Loving parent of Patrick L. Ferriere, Peter C. Blenk and Anthony Blenk. Adored mother-inlaw of Susan Nichols Ferriere and Natalie Wilmer Blenk and grandmother of Elisabeth, Edward and Caroline Blenk. She touched the lives of eve
 GOODSTONE-Ellen. On March 18, 2001 in Miami, FL. Survived by her adoring husband, Bert; her children Peggy Katz and Andy Goldstein and her grandchildren, Jon and Andrew Katz. Her family and many friends will mourn her death and celebrate her life. Her charm, elegance and kindness will remai
 LURIE-Nettie. Beloved wife of Abraham. Devoted mother of Susan and Debra. Mother-in-law of Don and George. Cherished grandmother of Rafey and Anna. Services Thursday 11:30AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Long Island. LURIE-Nettie. The Faculty and Staff of the 
 SOUTHGATE-Anna F. Of Manchester, Massachusetts, died on Sunday, March 18, after a short illness. She was 71 years old. Mrs. Southgate was for many years a director of the Barringer Crater Company, and she wrote a history of the Meteor Crater discovered in Arizona by her grandfather. The pub
 STOLL-Barbara Jeanne. On March 18, 2001 at age 74. Beloved wife of Leonard Stoll. Loving mother of Susan Neitzke, David Feltman and Edward Feltman. Adoring grandmother of Andrew, Michael, Sarah, Mary Kate and Jake. Devoted sister of Ellie King. Dear mother-in-law of Kim and Suzanne. Cherish
 TURNER-Alice E. of Manhasset, NY passed away on March 19, 2001. Born Alice Frail on December 19, 1925 in Flushing, NY. As a young girl she was a fine athelete who excelled in track and swimming competition. Upon graduating Bayside High School in 1944 she became a stewardess for TWA. She lat
 ZACK-Beatrice Bodin, 86, of NYC. Died on March 17, 2001 in Baltimore, MD. For 60 years, beloved wife of David Zack. Devoted mother of Dr. Brian Zack (and wife Virginia August) of Princeton, NJ and of Dr. Donald Zack (and wife Dr. Ellen Okun) of Baltimore, MD. Cherished grandmother of Rebecc
 Helen Smith Bevington, a poet, essayist, English professor and tireless tourist who roamed the world in search of her own Shangri-La, died on Friday at the home of her son, David, in Chicago. She was 94. Mrs. Bevington was a professor emeritus at Duke University, where she joined th
 BLENK-Muriel. On Mar. 17, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Walter Blenk. Loving parent of Patrick L. Ferriere, Peter C. Blenk and Anthony Blenk. Adored mother-inlaw of Susan Nichols Ferriere and Natalie Wilmer Blenk and grandmother of Elisabeth, Edward and Caroline Blenk. She touched the live
 FREEMAN - Waltraud Joanna. Died March 19, 2001. Survived by husband, Norman and daughters Tanya, Haley and Claudia. She was loved by everyone she touched; her generosity and spirit transcended time and place. Her laughter will ring in our ears forever. In lieu of flowers, donations may be m
 LIST-Gloria. March 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Herbert C. List. Loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews and a good friend to many. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Street and 81 Street, Saturday, March 24,
 MILGRIM-Laura Reina, Manhattan's lady of dignity and grace, joined peace on Friday, March 16, 2001. She was 68. She danced the Opera Ball in Vienna, toured with Bob Hope in the USO, explored the globe and loved the Yankees. Her laughter filled all rooms and she will again bless the world th
 REED-Barbara Ferenbach, 83. Of Wilmington, DE., and Point O'Woods, New York, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, loving wife of Dr. Howard L. Reed. Survived by two sisters, her identical twin Martha Anderson, and Ruth Dunbar Pence; her children, Harry Reed, Sally Skey, Judy Reed Smith, Philip Reed a
 TREITELMAN - Henrietta. On March 20, 2001 at age 94. Formerly of the Bronx. Wife of the late Alexander. Mother of Carol Ragsdale (Tod) and Rachel Rosin (Ben). Grandmother of William Ridout. Graveside services Thursday, March 22nd, 12:30PM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Westwood, N.J., (201) 262-11
 KENWORTHY - Marthaonja Weyl/d on March 18th in Amherst, MA. Vivid, supportive wife of F. Joachim Weyl, former dean and acting president of Hunter College, she later married E.W. Kenworthy of The New York Times, and then on the brink of ninety, wed her college beau Harlan M. Thompson, former
 ANDRUS - Eileen Margaret. March 22, 2001. Born February 2, 1913. Widow of the late Henry. Beloved mother of Elaine, William and Rene. Cherished grandmother of Eileen, Jack, Tara, Robyn and Erin. A saint; loved by all whose lives she touched. Director of Purchasing at Lenox Hill Hospital, re
 LIST-Gloria. March 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Herbert C. List. Loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews and a good friend to many. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Street and 81 Street, Saturday, March 24,
 McCORMICK-Miriam L., 89, of Richmond, VA, died Saturday, March 17, 2001 after a brief illness. Until her retirement from the NYC Board of Education, she taught at Bayside and Franklin K. Lane High Schools. Born in the Bronx in 1911, Mrs. McCormick was a 1933 Summa Cum Laude Graduate of the 
 REED-Barbara Ferenbach, 83. Of Wilmington, DE., and Point O'Woods, New York, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, loving wife of Dr. Howard L. Reed. Survived by two sisters, her identical twin Martha Anderson, and Ruth Dunbar Pence; her children, Harry Reed, Sally Skey, Judy Reed Smith, Philip Reed a
 RICHARDS-Shelagh B. Age 74. Of Sewickley, PA., formerly of New York, on Wednesday, March 21, 2001. Wife of the late R.S. Richards, Jr. and David H. McConnell. Beloved mother of Stephanie Anderson McConnell, Constance McConnell Rush and Shelagh Kip Nicholas and her husband Rodney. Grandmothe
 SPANIER-Libby, 92. Died peacefully at home on March 21, 2001. She is survived by her son Sidney, his wife Ktziah and grandchildren Noam and Orit, Talia, Eitan and Katie, Colin and Max, and four great grandchildren. May she rest in peace. Services, Gramercy Chapel, 152 2nd Ave., Friday 10:00
 TEDCASTLE-Jean Harris Johnson. Age 86 of Stratford, CT, died Tuesday, March 20, 2001 in Shelton, CT. Born Worcester, MA, Mrs. Tedcastle was a Stratford resident for 53 years. She was a graduate of Pasadena Junior College, Pratt Institute, with a degree in Industrial Design in Columbia Unive
 ZUCKERBRAUN-Helen nee Rogowsky, peacefully March 20th, 2001 at age 94 in Lauderhill, FL. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Baer Zuckerbraun. Devoted mother of Dr. David and Mary of Pomona, NY, Dr. Matthew and Myra of NYC. Cherished grandmother of Sara of Pomona, Dr. Brian and Dr. Noel Zuckerbrau
 Denny Griswold, founder and former editor of the newsletter Public Relations News, died on Feb. 7 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 92 and in recent years had lived at the Wilton Meadows Health Care Center in Wilton, Conn. Her newsletter was the first periodical to report on public relation
 ANDRUS - Eileen Margaret. March 22, 2001. Born February 2, 1913. Widow of the late Henry. Beloved mother of Elaine, William and Rene. Cherished grandmother of Eileen, Jack, Tara, Robyn and Erin. A saint; loved by all whose lives she touched. Director of Purchasing at Lenox Hill Hospital, re
 BERNHARDT-Debra E. New York University mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Debra Bernhardt, head of the Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives. Her passion for and dedication to her work, and her strength and honesty will be remembered by all of us. We extend our deep
 DiFRANCESCO - Christina (Teenie). Passed away on March 22, 2001. Beloved wife of Harry. Adored mother of Jennie and Mike Lardiere and Chris and John Bricker. Cherished sister of Charlotte and Dominick Natale. Dearest grandmother of Tony and Francesca Quinn and John Charles Bricker. She is j
 LEIKIND-Elena. The members of the Forward Association and the staff of the Forward newspapers mourn the shocking, untimely death of our dear colleague, Elena Leikind. Assistant to editors of the Yiddish Forverts for the past decade, she was a patriot of the Yiddish language and a partisan o
 LEVIN-Janice H. On March 23, 2001. Wife of the late Philip J. Levin. Loving mother of Catherine and Adam. Dear grandmother of Arielle Tepper, Matthew and Peter Levin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, March 25, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service Mo
 RICHARDS-Shelagh B. Age 74. Of Sewickley, PA., formerly of New York, Wednesday, March 21, 2001. Wife of the late R.S. Richards, Jr. and David H. McConnell. Beloved mother of Stephanie Anderson McConnell, Constance McConnell Rush and Shelagh Kip Nicholas and her husband Rodney. Grandmother o
 STEINBERG-Helen nee Gottschalk, March 23rd, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Myron. Loving mother of Michael and Diane, Alan and Jackie, & Leslie Endelson. Adoring grandmother of Alexis and Erik, Matthew, Jessica, Kimberly and Samantha, and devoted greatgrandmother of Jordan and Tyler. Visiting th
 DiFRANCESCO - Christina (Teenie). Passed away on March 22, 2001. Beloved wife of Harry. Adored mother of Jennie and Mike Lardiere and Chris and John Bricker. Cherished sister of Charlotte and Dominick Natale. Dearest grandmother of Tony and Francesca Quinn and John Charles Bricker. She is j
 FRIED-Rose. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Arthur and Goldy Fried and Phyllis Trautman. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Michael Greenberg, Steven and Robin Fried, Beth Trautman and Samuel & Theresa Trautman. Loving grandmother of Martin, Max, Abigail and Nicole. We cele
 HOLMES-Carolyn (Millie) of New Canaan, CT on March 21, 2001. Wife of the late Joseph H. Holmes, Jr. Beloved mother to Suki Welch, Joseph H. Holmes, III, Colly Holmes and Nathaniel Holmes, III. Grandmother to six grandchildren and 3 great grandchildren. Mrs. Holmes was the owner of Mili Holm
 LEVIN-Janice H. On March 23, 2001. Wife of the late Philip J. Levin. Loving mother of Catherine and Adam. Dear grandmother of Arielle Tepper, Matthew and Peter Levin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, March 25, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service Mo
 McSTEA-Elizabeth M. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL. Formerly of New York City. Died peacefully March 19, 2001. Survived by loving siter Kathleen L. Delaney and niece Kathleen M. Delaney. She attended NYU and Columbia University, achieving a Master's Degree in Journalism & was the first woman in the
 SCHNEE-Rhoda Noskin. Of Long Beach, NY, on March 24. Wife of the late Henry Schnee. Loving and devoted mother of Susan and Brian, mother-in-law of Hope, and grandmother of Joshua Smick and Matthew and Courtney Schnee, sister of Helen Elkin and Selma Kanfer. A role model who through each sta
 SHORENSTEIN-Muriel. My angel and dedicated wife for 60 years of blissful marriage, died peacefully Sunday, March 18, 2001. Our sons, Robert, Kenneth & grandchildren, David & Brett, will always cherish her love and devotion to their interest and well being.       
 STEINBERG-Helen nee Gottschalk, March 23rd, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Myron. Loving mother of Michael and Diane, Alan & Jackie, & Leslie Endelson. Adoring grandmother of Alexis and Erik, Matthew, Jessica, Kimberly and Samantha, and devoted greatgrandmother of Jordan and Tyler. Service is on
 SPECHT-Lisa M. A memorial service will be held for Lisa M. Specht, artist extraordinaire, compassionate teacher and a dear friend. We hope that you can join her family and friends in honoring her: Saturday, March 31, 2001 at 12 noon at the Art Students League of New York, 215 West 57 St., N
 Debra E. Bernhardt, a labor historian who spearheaded a successful three-year drive to obtain landmark status for Union Square Park in Manhattan, died on Thursday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 47. The cause was cancer, said her sister, Andra Bernhardt Ladd. The head of th
 Ellen J. Hammer, a historian who wrote an influential book about Indochina and Vietnam before the Vietnam War, died on Jan. 28 in New York City. She was 79 and lived in New York City. The cause was lymphoma, the journal Indochina Chronology reported. Dr. Hammer received a bachelor's
 BAER-Gertrude (Verina). Originally from Kentucky. Accomplished and talented pianist. Performed at Manhattan Savings Banks and verious hotels and supper clubs. Survived by a niece, nephew and dear friends. Leaves a legacy of her creative works in the archives of the University of Kentucky, L
 BERNHARDT-Debra E. The Workers Defense League mourns the loss of a true champion of the working class and its history. She will be missed by all who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Jon Bloom, WDL's Executive Director, and their children, Alex and Sonya. Leon Lynch, 
 BLUM-Ray. Died Sunday, March 25, age 97. A gifted and creative handworker, homemaker, musician and gardener. Widow of Joseph G., beloved mother of Robert Peter. She is survived by her loving daughter Judy, cherished grandchildren Jennifer, Lesley and Joey, and daughter-in-law Franny. Memori
 JAY-Margo. On March 25, 2001. Beloved wife of Stephen. Devoted mother of Daniel, Naomi, Ron and Matthew. Sister of Samuel and Boris Beizer. Grandmother of Rachel and Elijah. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday at 12 noon at Joseph Levine and Son Memorial Chapel, 7112 North Broad St., P
 LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, note with sorrow the passing of their good friend, Janice Levin. With tremendous enthusiasm, an abiding interest, and constant generosiy, Janice championed the arts in myriad ways, from giving works to the Musuem's collecti
 McDOWELL-Terri Simm. Age 50, of Naples, FL, died Friday, March 23, 2001. She had been the Vice President of Sales for Estee Lauder Co. and Vice President and National Sales Manager for Sanofi. She is survived by her husband Daniel McDowell; parents Richard and Ida Carbaugh of Estero, FL; si
 MULLINS-Corinne McLaughlin. Died peacefully March 22 at home. Survived by husband Thomas D., and sons Thomas D. III of Bethesda, MD, and William E.G. of Cambridge, MA, and a daughter, C. Brewer M. Schoeller of Pittsburgh, PA, and a brother, Herbert P. McLaughlin of San Francisco, CA. Burial
 SCHWEITZER - Beverly (nee Schlossberg). Daughter of Irving and Sonny, has passed away March 24, 2001, in Lake Worth, FL. Her loving husband Gene, daughter Andrea, son-in-law Jo, sons Larry and Richard, daughter-inlaw Barbara, grandchildren Jeremy, Ben, Amanda and Jordana will miss her so ve
 Janice H. Levin, an art collector and philanthropist, died on Friday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and had homes in Manhattan, in East Hampton, N.Y., and in Palm Beach. Mrs. Levin, the widow of Philip J. Levin, a lawyer and real estate developer, took over her husband's business af
 BERNHARDT-Debra E. A woman of remarkable wit, energy and determination. She served as head of the Tamiment Institute Library and the Robert F. Wagner Archives at NYU with an enthusiasm and dedication that were infectious. To her husband Jon Bloom and to her children Alex and Sonya, we exten
 BLUM-Ray. Died Sunday, March 25, age 97. A gifted and creative handworker, homemaker, musician and gardener. Widow of Joseph G., beloved mother of Robert Peter. She is survived by her loving daughter Judy, cherished grandchildren Jennifer, Lesley and Joey, and daughter-in-law Franny. Memori
 GARDNER-Sally (nee Wasylik). Of Brooklyn, NY, on March 24, 2001. Cherished wife of the late Neill Gardner. Loving mother of Victoria. Her elegance, wit, charm and generosity enriched and touched the lives of so many. A celebration of her life will be held at 2:00 PM Saturday, March 31, St. 
 LEVIN-Janice H. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Janice H. Levin, a longtime friend and dedicated supporter. Through her generosity and a lifetime of community service, she has left an indelible mark on UJA-Federaton and other Jewish
 SCHIFF-Selma Saslow. On March 25, at age 86. Beloved wife of the late Bernard A. Saslow & the late Sidney L. Schiff. Loving mother of Judy Grace, Bill Saslow and Nancy Edelstein. Loving mother-in-law of Norman Grace, Peter Edelstein and Diane Saslow. Cherished grandmother of Bob & Stephanie
 SCHOENBACH-Sophia Wolf, 97. Died Tuesday, March 26, 2001 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in New York City. Wife of the late Louis; loving and beloved mother of Morton and Jill; grandmother of Michael and Robert; great grandmother of Billy, Elizabeth and Eric, and Dana, Jamie and Jake. Long 
 Toby Wing, whose pert good looks and vivacious personality made her a cinematic bombshell of the 30's -- as well as the heroine in a storybook romance with a celebrated aviator, Dick Merrill -- died on Friday at her home in Mathews, Va. She was 85. ''Miss Wing is a nice girl with a 
 COOPER-Fay. Beloved mother of Jonathan, dear sister of Anita King, adoring grandmother of Emily. Service Thursday 10am ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions to the West End Temple would be appreciated. COOPER-Faye. The commun
 GIANFORTONI-Elenore, of Lake Worth, Fla., died March 23, 2001. She was born in the Bronx, February 22, 1912. For over 30 years she taught in N.Y.C. schools.       
 LEVIN-Janice H. The French Institute Alliance Francaise notes with sadness the passing of Janice Levin, who was a valued member of our Trophee Des Arts gala benefit committee. Her colleagues on the benefit committee join our Board of Trustees and staff in extending their deepest sympathies 
 LIPMAN-Janice B. Our dearest and beloved friend, Janice, died peacefully, on March 28th, 2001. Janice was deeply devoted to her daughters, Mona and Dana, to her family, and many friends. She was an outstanding educator & gifted English teacher at New Rochelle High School for many years. Our
 MARINAS-Adele Martin. Passed away on March 24, 2001 at home in Manhattan. Born in St. Nazaire, France. After an illustrious career with the advertising firm of William Esty Company, Inc. that spanned 46 years, she retired in 1988 as Vice President of Human Resources. She was the devoted wif
 MORGAN-Muriel (nee Perl). On March 26, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Arthur J. Morgan. Loving mother of Tony & John. Devoted mother-in-law of Mercedes and Nancy. Dear sister of the late Dr. Ruth Kahn. Adored grandmother of Paul, Melissa, Jeffrey, Peter, Benjamin and Nicholas. Great grandmo
 RIVES-Wendy, M.D. Died on Saturday, March 24, 2001, at NYU Medical Center at the age of thirty-nine due to complications of breast cancer. Dr. Rives was the Director of the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program at Bellevue Hospital. Beloved spouse to JoAnn, mother of Hal, daughter, si
 STEINFELD-Bertha. From July 23, 1904 to March 26, 2001, she was the queen of the world. Devoted wife of Harry. Mother of Renee Weiner. Grandmother of Jim and Matthew. Great grandmother of Zachary, Rebecca, Grayson and Casey. We will miss you dearly. Services 11:30 A.M. Thursday, Riverside M
 STOLL-Barbara. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing on March 18 of our fellow member, Barbara Stoll, and extend belated condolences to her family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 Maude Russell Rutherford, a singer and dancer in the glory days of black theater in the 1920's who always said she was the one who really introduced the Charleston on Broadway, died on March 8 at her home in Atlantic City. She is believed to have been 104. Strikingly pretty, she was
 CHARY-Sylvia. Of Lakewood, N.J. on March 27, 2001, formerly of NYC, former NYC public school teacher. Beloved wife of the late Philip. She is survived by her niece and two nephews. Services Friday 11AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 de LESSEPS-Tauni, 86, SculptorPainter. A resident of Palm Beach, Florida, a well-known international artist, died Saturday, March 24, 2001, at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. A Paris-born Countess, Tauni de Lesseps, was the granddaughter of Ferdinand de Lesse
 LAUER-Rachel M., Ph.D., founding Director of the Straus Thinking and Learning Center and Professor of Psychology, Pace University, died suddenly on Saturday, March 24. Dr. Lauer was a pioneer and an intellectual leader in the field of adult development, leadership and critical thinking. She
 LIPMAN-Janice B. Our dearest and beloved friend, Janice, died peacefully, on March 27th, 2001. Janice was deeply devoted to her daughters, Mona and Dana, to her family, and many friends. She was an outstanding educator & gifted English teacher at New Rochelle High School for many years. Our
 PRICE-Ruth N. On March 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry Price, loving mother of the late Fred Price. Services Friday 10am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in her memory may be made to U.J.A.-Federation, c/o Planned Giving & Endowments, 130 East 59th S
 REINES-Phyllis. Devoted wife of Irving. Loving mother of Eric and Stacey. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Jonathan, Katy and Libby. She is loved and missed by all who knew her. Services Friday 10 AM at Nieberg's Midwood Chapel, Inc., 1625 Coney Island Avenue (cor. Ave M.) 718-377-2700.   
 RIVES-Wendy. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine and the Department of Psychiatry note with great sorrow the passing of Wendy Rives, M.D., attending physician and Director of the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program at Bellevue Hospital Center. A gifted clinician, Dr. Riv
 SHEPHERD-Kathleen. The Board of Directors and staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City, on behalf of the citywide Youth Cares Coalition, mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, who made a difference in the lives of so many young people. Our condolences to her family, fr
 WEINHEIM-Etta. As a loyal friend and leader in the RCS community, Etta cared for all children as if they were her own-with love and humor. Her vitality, energy and will to do what was right and fair will be sorely missed but will inspire us always. The Riverdale Country School Parents Assoc
 Birgit Akesson, a dancer and choreographer whose unconventional approach to movement and music made her a prominent pioneer of Swedish modern dance, died on Saturday in Stockholm, where she lived. She died on her 93rd birthday. Unlike most modern dancers in the United States and Eur
 COOPER-Julia. Beloved widow of Peter. Loving sister of Charlie, Jerry, Max and Bob Mandel. Generous aunt, great-aunt, greatgreat-aunt and great-great-great aunt. Died peacefully in her 95th year on March 27, 2001. Graveside service Sunday 11:30AM at Baron Hirsch Cemetery. Call 212-751-9445 
 GREIF-Minnie. Dearest wife of Hy. Mother of Audrey, Bill and Carol. Services today, 12 Noon, at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1652 Central Park Avenue, Yonkers. Her warm and open smile will be missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing her.       
 LIPMAN-Janice G. ''Gently they go, the beautiful, the tender, the kind; quietly they go, the intelligent, the witty, the brave. I know. But I do not approve. And I am not resigned.'' Mommy, you will live forever in our hearts. Mona and Dana LIPMAN-Janice Goldstone. You were a superb
 PRICE-Ruth N. On March 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry Price, loving mother of the late Fred Price. Services Friday 10am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in her memory may be made to U.J.A.-Federation, c/o Planned Giving & Endowments, 130 East 59th S
 SIFF-Ethel nee Farber. Businesswoman, clothes designer, creative, talented and beloved mother of Doris Brickner, Bud and Wallace Sife, loving grandmother of Leslie and Beth Gottlieb, Mimi Wrobel and Betsy Johnston, and great-grandchildren Lauren and Jason Rabinowitz, Natalia, Francesca, and
 BECKER-Mabel E. On March 30, two months short of her 98th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Samuel L. Devoted mother of Dr. Jerrold (Rae), Dr. Stanley (Natalie) and Adele (Sheldon) Lobel. Also survived by 11 grandchildren & 14 great-grandchildren. Loving sister of Beatrice Chezar and Loret
 KOLISH-Dorothy. Beloved widow of Teddy and sister of Rosalind Horowitz. Died in her 89th year at Hospice By The Sea, Boca Raton, FL. She leaves three generations of devoted and adoring nieces and nephews and many dear friends who will never forget her profound kindness, sense of humor and c
 SCHONBERG-Jeanne, age 82. On March 30, 2001 in Newtown, PA. Long time resident of New York City. She will be greatly missed by her nieces Judy & Ann Bardacke and Jean Marchildon and by her four great nephews and niece. Memorial contributions to the Employees Scholarship Fund at Pennswood, 1
