 Eleanor Clymer, who in dozens of children's books contrasted country and city life, died yesterday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. She was 95. Between 1943 and 1983, Mrs. Clymer published 58 books, mostly for elementary schoolchildren. Her first, ''A Yard for John,'' whi
 ALLISON-Shirley (nee Rosenthal). Devoted wife for fiftyeight years, wonderful mother and grandmother, great and beloved director of Camp Keeyumah passed away in Fort Lauderdale, Florida on March 26th, 2001. She was the daughter of Abe and Pauline Rosenthal, sister of Gene Rosenthal and Este
 ANGEL-Frances H. The National Board of the National Council of Jewish Women is deeply saddened by the loss of a distinguished leader and dear friend, Frances Hannah Levy Angel. Frances dedicated herself to improving the lives of women, children, and families here and in Israel, continuing t
 ARBOLINO-Eileen Margaret Snider, wife of Jack. Passed away suddenly on Sunday, March 25, 2001 at her home in Harrington Park, NJ. Mother of Philip Bayer and his wife Phyllis, Jennifer Page, Anne & husband Charles Kruger, John Paul and wife Maija. Sister of Donald Page Snider & wife Penny of
 HEIMBACH - Beatrice. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KEENA-Helen. Beloved and truest of friends died March 24, 2001 in NY. Relatives and friends; Marjorie Mitchell, Jean Lohnes, Grace Peaty will miss her dearly. She was the long time devoted secretary to Murray Rosof, NYC, and friend of the entire family; Joan R. Schultz, Barbara R. Harris, G
 KIEGLER-Rabia. Died on March 25, 2001, of cancer. We deeply mourn the untimely passing of our beloved longtime friend who never ceased to care for others. We shall miss her forever.       
 LIPMAN-Janice Goldstone. You were a superb teacher who loved literature and cherished your students. Brilliantly you articulated the beauty and the power of words to them. You taught them to think. You inspired elegance and honesty in their writing. For your largesse we are grateful. Studen
 MINTZ-Maybelle (nee Markowitz). Devoted wife of the late Lewis. Dear mother of Loretta Katz, Madeline Fischbach-Zausner, Alan and Jeffrey. Mother-inlaw of Murray, Dick and Anne. Loving grandmother of Lori, Suzy, David, Justina, Diandra, Ali and Larissa. Great grandmother of Zachary and Kend
 MULLINS-Corinne McLaughlin. Died peacefully on March 22 at home. Survived by husband Thomas D., and sons Thomas D. III of Bethesda, MD, and William E.G. of Cambridge, MA, and a daughter, C. Brewer M. Schoeller of Pittsburgh, PA, and a brother, Herbert P. McLaughlin of San Francisco, CA. Bur
 SHEA-Margaret. Of Somers, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on March 30, 2001. Mrs. Shea lived in Somers, NY, for the past two years, and before that she lived in Brooklyn, NY, for 67 years. She is survived by her sons Michael, Robert, John and Timothy, and also survived by her sisters Bar
 THORWORTH-Norma (Phillips). Died Thursday, March 29, 2001. Born March 17, 1938, in Denver, CO, she lived in Escondido, CA since 1955. She was President of Collins-Phillips Tool Corp. and Harold Phillips Corp. She started the San Diego County Chapter of M.A.D.D. (Mothers Against Drunk Drivin
 COHEN-Edith J. Of Bayside, Queens, and Boca Raton, died March 31, 2001, at her home in Florida. She was predeceased by her husband David D. Cohen, her parents Louis and Rose Jaffe, and her sister Stella Warsharsky. She is survived by her children Robert (Maddy deLone) and Mardge Cohen (Gord
 FRIEDMAN-Reginia, M.D. On March 30, 2001. A most dedicated physician, loving, selfless and kind in every aspect of her life; a true woman of valor who was taken too early and tragically. She lived life fully and decently. Life without her is unimaginable. Survived by her sister Esther Fried
 O'DONNELL-Anne R. 73, a native of New York City, died March 31, 2001, in Wilmington, NC. Mrs. O'Donnell was preceded in death by her husband, Thomas P. O'Donnell. Survivors include a sister, Patricia McGowan of New York City, six children and seven grandchildren. A graduate of Cornell Unive
 Hollis Sigler, a Chicago-based artist whose autobiographical narrative paintings often focused on her long struggle with breast cancer, died of the disease on Thursday at her home in Prairie View, Ill. She was 53. Ms. Sigler's early work was abstract expressionist, then photo-realis
 BLUM-Ray. The Board of Directors and Staff of New York Society for the Deaf (NYSD) extend their deepest condolences to Judy Blum and her family at the passing of her mother Ray Blum, friend and supporter of NYSD. Ms. Blum passed away on Sunday, March 25 at age 97. She has passed her legacy 
 CORRIGAN-Eileen M. Emerita Professor at Rutgers University and pioneer researcher in alcoholism in women died Thanksgiving Day 2000. A celebration of her memory will be held today, April 3, from 5-7 PM at The Institute for Research on Women of Columbia University, 116 and Broadway, at Scher
 FRIEDMAN-Reginia H., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni record with sorrow the untimely death of Dr. Reginia Friedman, School of Medicine graduate of the Class of 1983. An outstanding young physician, she will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., P
 HAIBLUM-Anne (nee Maisner). Age 89. Of Hollywood, Florida. Formerly Brooklyn, New York. Died on April 1. A devoted wife for 60 years to husband Harry and mother to daughter, Burma Klein. She was smart as a wit & never at a loss with a quip. Graveside services April 4 at 11 AM, Beth David ce
 LEVIN-Wilma Spence. On April 1, 2001 at age 86. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of Joyce Pollich. Adoring grandmother of Mark, Molly & Melissa. Funeral services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, 11:30AM. Contributions in her memory may be mad
 McCONNELL-Patricia Harden. Patricia was taken from her loving family on April 1, 2001, after a short illness. She will be missed by many people who knew and loved her. She is survived by two sons, Paul Harden and his wife Amy of Boston, Massachusetts, and Adam Harden and his wife Maria of M
 O'CONNELL-Catherine. On April 1, 2001. Devoted wife of Shiv Sharma. Loving mother of Eric Alexander Sharma. Beloved sister of Daniel O'Connell, Edward O'Connell and Pattie Rizzo. Also survived by various nieces and nephews.Visitation Tuesday 2-4pm and 7-9PM at Krtil Funeral Home; Yorkville 
 PARADISE-Viviane. Passed away April 2, 2001 at the age of 88. She was the loving wife of Lionel Paradise, loving mother of Dr. Robert Louis Stamper, Mary Louise Anetrella, and James Richard Stamper, and loving stepmother of Steven Paradise. She was the mother-in-law of Naomi Stamper, Joe An
 SCHAEFER-Helene Hollis. Died on April 2, 2001 at her home. The cause of her death was cancer. Born in the Bronx, New York, 101 years ago, she became a longtime resident of Larchmont after her marriage to F.M.E. Schaefer, former chairman of the Schaefer Brewing Company. The mother of Henry R
 SCHECHTMAN-Ruth. Died March 25, 2001 at age 81 at Calvary Hospital after a long and valiant combat with cancer. Beloved mother of Joan Bernstein, Helene Praeger, and Harris. Dear mother-in-law of Michelle. Devoted grandmother of David, Lesly, Jennifer, Denton (Herschel Meir), Matthew, Marth
 SIGLER-Hollis. The Board of Directors and the staff of the College Art Association mourn with profound sadness the passing of Hollis Sigler, artist, educator, author and recipient of CAA's 2001 Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement. Our condolences to her family, friends and l
 Emily MacFarquhar, who applied a scholar's meticulousness to many years of reporting on China and South Asia, notably in more than 20 years with The Economist, died on March 18 in her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62. The cause was a brain tumor, said her son, Rory MacFarquhar.  
 BORCHARD - Helen Marshall. April 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Bernard P. Borchard; devoted mother of William M. Borchard and his wife Myra; cherished grandmother of Jillian and Thomas; loving sister of the late Madelaine Simon. She was always ahead of her time. She was a woman's suffra
 FEINBERG-Belle. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 FENIMORE-Ruth Thomson. August 17, 1920 to April 2, 2001. Ruth was a strong, kind, selfless woman. She worked for many years to nurture and provide for her 4 loving daughters, Christina, Cynthia, Patricia, and Janet. She was loved by all her family, and cherished by her friends. She was ador
 JOSELOW-Esther. Devoted wife of sixty-three years, wonderful mother and grandmother died on March 26th after a long illness. Formerly of Palm Beach, Florida, & New York City, New York, she is survived by her beloved husband, Samuel Joselow, her son, Robert Joselow, her daughters Froma Harro
 LEVIN-Wilma Spence. On April 1, 2001 at age 86. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of Joyce Pollich. Adoring grandmother of Mark, Molly & Melissa. Funeral services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, 11:30AM. Contributions in her memory may be mad
 SCHAEFER-Helene Hollis. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Helene Hollis Schaefer '85, LHD '99, at the age of 101. The embodiment of the pursuit of lifelong learning, her enduring passion and unabashed delight in learning brought her the Bachelor of Arts 
 SCHMUCKLER-Miriam, 89. Cherished wife of the late Samuel Schmuckler. Beloved mother to Judith Paradis and Alan Sears. Mrs. Schmuckler was known for her active public service and teaching career in the New Rochelle public schools. Her intelligence, determination and caring will be remembered
 SHEA-Jeanne R. April 2, 2001, beloved daughter of the late Mark and the late Anna Shea, devoted sister of the late Ellen Geehern. She was a noted actress & singer, whose radiance and warmth will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Thursday 7-9 P.M. and Friday 2-5 and 7
 SIMONI-Rosalind. On April 2, 2001, age 83. Beloved wife of the late Manfried. Loving mother of Laura Weinstein and George Simoni. Adored grandmother, sister and ''Tante''. She will be dearly missed by all who knew her and loved her. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced.      
 SPIRER-Mae. Age 85. Died in Portland, ME. on April 2, 2001. Caring wife of the late William Spirer. Loving mother of Kenneth and the late James Spirer. Adoring mother-in-law of Joan Leitzer. Beloved grandmother of Laren, Bill and Katie. She is also survived by her brother Irving Golfman of 
 STRACHSTEIN-Harriet. Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourns the passing of Dr. Harriet Strachstein, retired Senior Supervisor and Faculty Member. We express our heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. Dr. Jacob Barak, President and CEO       
 ABRAMS-Beth. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, N.Y., mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Marc, children Jordan and Garrett. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Leonard B. Austin, President   
 BORCHARD - Helen Marshall. April 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Bernard P. Borchard; devoted mother of William M. Borchard and his wife Myra; cherished grandmother of Jillian and Thomas; loving sister of the late Madelaine Simon. She was always ahead of her time. She was a woman's suffra
 COHEN-Lilian S. Formerly of Long Beach, New York, died at age 102 in Stamford, Connecticut. Survived by her daughter Paula Manaly, grandchildren Elizabeth Breyer, Charles Freedgood, Elisse Ely and Marcia Ely, and seven great-grandchildren. Predeceased by husband Albert and daughter Frances 
 DASH-Shirley, nee Nisinson. Widow of insurance executive, Emanuel Dash, peacefully, April 1, in her 100th year, at Southampton Nursing Center, Southampton, NY. Mother of Gregory, Matthew (deceased) and Robert, she leaves as well, three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Famed for he
 FIREMAN-Evelyn. On April 4, 2001 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Dr. Barry Fireman, and Lesley Cahn and her husband Mitch. Cherished grandmother of Marissa & Samantha. Dear sister of Phil Leff and Pearl Goldberg. Services on Friday 9:45 A.M., at ''The Ri
 HANDMAN-Emily. On March 30. Beloved wife of Stanley Edward Handman. Cherished by her nieces & nephews, Alma, Andrew, Dorothy, Norma, Philip, Raymond and Richard and by her many grand and great grand nieces and nephews and by her many friends. Memorial services at The Ethical Humanist Societ
 MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. On April 3, 2001 at her home in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Charles E. Merrill and Elizabeth Church Merrill. Sister of Charles E. Merrill Jr. and the late James Ingram Merrill. Mother of Robin, Merrill, Peter, Stephen and Mark. Funeral services will be
 SAGE-Margie. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 SCHAEFER-Helene Hollis. The Manhattanville College community mourns the loss of alumna Helene Hollis Schaefer, '89. We are proud to be the Institution where she earned her well-deserved Master of Arts in Liberal Studies degree at the age of 90. Her zeal for learning was an inspiration to ou
 SHAPIRO-Manya, 88. Wife of the late Joseph Nathan Shapiro, mother of Gitta, Bernie and Ethel Zivotofsky, grandmother of Ari and Nomi Zivotofsky, Doni, David, Elan and Jenny Zivotofsky, greatgrandmother of Shlomit, Yosef, Moriah and Zechariah Zivotofsky. Her guidance and generosity will be g
 SHEA-Jeanne R. April 2, 2001, beloved daughter of the late Mark and the late Anna Shea, devoted sister of the late Ellen Geehern. She was a noted actress & singer, whose radiance and warmth will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Thursday 7-9 P.M. and Friday 2-5 and 7
 SMITH-Esther, 77. Died on April 4 after a long and valiant fight with cancer. Lifetime fighter for social justice, Yiddish Scholar, Union Organizer, leader in Stuyvesant Town anti-discrimination fight, V.P. Women's Division American Jewish Congress, Director Medical Committee for Human Righ
 WEITZMAN-Yaffa. April 5, 2000. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. Jerrold and C. Jeremy       
 ASPERILLA-Purita, Ed.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the staff, students and alumni of the Phillips-Beth Israel School of Nursing in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Purita Asperilla, Ed.D., former Assistant Dean. D
 BORCHARD-Helen. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Helen Borchard, a dedicated and longtime member of our board. Her years of commitment to the 92nd Street Y are deeply appreciated. Our hearts and prayers go out to her friends and family. She will be 
 COLWELL - Pamela Meredyth. Died peacefully on April 4, 2001 in Manchester, Massachusetts at the age of 94. She was predeceased by her husbands Lt. Gordon Calthrop Thorne, DSO of England and Kent Galbraith Colwell of Morristown, New Jersey. She is survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Hayden a
 MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. On April 3, 2001 at her home in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Charles E. Merrill and Elizabeth Church Merrill. Sister of Charles E. Merrill Jr. and the late James Ingram Merrill. Mother of Robin, Merrill, Peter, Stephen and Mark. Funeral services will be
 SMITH-Esther. Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourns the passing of Esther Smith, member of our Residential Services Board of Directors and former Executive Officer. Among Esther's achievements at PCMH were many wonderful Gala Tributes to Broadway notables and site approvals for our R
 KAPLAN-Anna. Beloved wife of the late Norman. Loving mother of Helaine Fishbein, Francine Yodowitz and Robert Kaplan. Cherished grandmother of Richard, Wendy, Gregory, Pamela, Jennifer and Jaclyn. She will be greatly missed and forever in our hearts.       
 MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. On April 3, 2001 at her home in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Charles E. Merrill and Elizabeth Church Merrill. Sister of Charles E. Merrill Jr. and the late James Ingram Merrill. Mother of Robin, Merrill, Peter, Stephen and Mark. Funeral services will be
 Wendy A. Rives, director of the often tumultuous psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, died on March 24 at New York University Medical Center. She was 39. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her partne, Dr. JoAnn Difede. As direc
 EPSTEIN-Jerry. With deep sorrow, all of us mourn the passing of Jerry and send our most heartfelt wishes to Laury and her family. The Actors Company Theatre       
 FREDERSEN-Rosalie S. On April 6th, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late Fannie. Devoted sister and dearest friend of Shirley Singer. A noble mind, a gentle spirit and kindness personified; her beautiful smile and her endless sense of humor. She will be sorely missed by all who loved her.     
 KAPLAN-Anna. Beloved wife of the late Norman. Loving mother of Helaine Fishbein, Francine Yodowitz and Robert Kaplan. Cherished grandmother of Richard, Wendy, Gregory, Pamela, Jennifer and Jaclyn. She will be greatly missed and forever in our hearts.       
 KLUGER-Erica. On April 6, 2001, at 18. She was a loving daughter of Carol Glassman and Barry Kluger, stepdaughter of Hope Kirsch and Matthew Glassman, granddaughter of Lee and Len Kluger, Lorraine Shuster and the late Marvin Shuster, sister of Zachary and Alley Glassman, niece of Alan Kluge
 LYNCH-Gertrude McCormick. 93, on April 3, 2001 in West Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of Red Bank, NJ. The daughter of the late Margaret Gardner and Thomas F. Mc Cormick. Predeceased by her husband William Joseph Lynch and their daughter Barbara Travis. Survived by their four daughters Judith Tyn
 MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Skin Association have lost a long term member, friend and counselor. Her humanitarian efforts will never be forgotten. We extend our condolences to her sons and her brother.       
 SIEBECK-Madeleine. On April 6, 2001. Born in Paris, France, on June 2, 1912, she emigrated to the United States where she was a well known model for Lily Dache and Hattie Carnegie in the 1930's. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Suzanne Benzer and Betsy Siebeck. Devoted mothe
 HOBART-Francine. Age 80, on April 5, 2001. Beloved wife of David, devoted mother of Pamela Obolsky and Valerie Peck, adored grandmother of Jason Obolsky and Joshua and Jocelyn Peck. Services were held April 6. Contributions in her memory may be made to NYU Medical Center.       
 KLUGER-Erica. On April 6, 2001, at 18. She was a loving daughter of Carol Glassman and Barry Kluger, stepdaughter of Hope Kirsch and Matthew Glassman, granddaughter of Lee and Len Kluger, Lorraine Shuster and the late Marvin Shuster, sister of Zachary and Alley Glassman, niece of Alan Kluge
 LOBELL-Mimi. Born Miriam Comings, in 1942. Died on April 6, 2001, after a brief illness with cancer. Mimi attended Middlebury College and the University of Pennsylvania. She received a masters degree in architecture from Penn, was a registered architect, worked for distinguished architectur
 MOSELOWITZ-Lillian (nee Ruben). Of Sarasota, FL. April 8, 2001. Predeceased by her husband Irving Moselowitz. Mother of Joan Hirsch and Carol Lapides. Grandmother of Lynn, Jimmy, Susan, Robert, Barbara and Larry; several great-grandchildren. Services private. Contributions to your favorite 
 NITZBURG-Bella. 90 years. On April 8, 2001. Beloved mother of Arthur Nitzburg. Mother-in-law of Ann Nitzburg. Grandmother of Ben and George Nitzburg. Sister of Harold Finkelstein and of both the late Milton Finkelstein and Sol Finkelstein. Sister-in-law of Sylvia Finkelstein and Ruth Finkel
 Vera Sandomirsky Dunham, who wrote extensively on Russian prose and poetry, died on March 22 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 88 and lived in Newton, Mass. Dr. Dunham, a retired professor in the Slavic department at Wayne State University in Detroit, also translated Russian poetry by wri
 BUSH-Jared Wilhelm, Ph.D. Suddenly on April 8, 2001, at age 42. A practicing psychologist in the NY/ NJ area. Beloved son of Dr. George and Flora Wilhelm Bush. Dear brother of Rachel and her husband, Tony. Loving uncle of Maxwell and Zachary. Adored nephew of Regina. Services Wednesday, Apr
 CHERNICK-Beatrice. On April 9, 2001. Devoted wife of Sigmund (Chick) and the late Samuel Seeman. Loving mother of Jay Seeman and Stephen Seeman. Adoring mother-in-law to Felice and Lui. Stepmother to Alan, Sandy, Maddy and Mark. Cherished grandmother to Samuel, Rebecca, Ari, Nowell, Allison
 COHEN-Llesly. Suddenly on April 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Mel. Cherished mother of Ruth Yudekovitz (Yossi) and Scot (Carolyn). Adored grandmother of Yonaton, Y'shai, Nadav, Sarah and Steven. Sister of the late Stanley Citron. Daughter of the late Charles and Ruth Citron. Beloved aunt of Neil
 FINKELSTEIN-Randi Ellen. Age 39. Passed away April 6, 2001. She leaves behind her loving and devoted parents Florence and Jerry Finkelstein, sister Nancy and brother-in-law Jeremy Garment, grandparents George and Francie Rosen. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, April 11th at Congre
 FRIEDMAN-Naomi. April 8, 2001. We deeply mourn the sudden passing of our beloved friend and colleague. She was a champion of peoples' rights and human dignity wherever these values were threatened, at home or abroad. Her abundant love, her wry sense of humor & her generous goodwill will be 
 HOGE-Helene Gales. Beloved mother of Judith Shafer Lockwood, The Reverend Michael Shafer, Christopher Hoge and Wendy Hoge. Grandmother of Reuben Shafer, Gail Shafer and Alexandra Hoge; great grandmother of Evan Shafer. A beautiful spirit loved by all who crossed her path. Born and raised in
 MATISSE-SPRETI-Maria Gaetana. On April 7, 2001. Beloved sister of Arardo Graf Von Spreti and Alessandro Graf Von Spreti. Friends may call Tuesday from 25PM. Funeral service 5PM Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue corner 81st. Burial in Vilsheim Germany. In lieu of flow
 NITZBURG-Bella. 90 years. On April 8, 2001. Beloved mother of Arthur Nitzburg. Mother-in-law of Ann Nitzburg. Grandmother of Ben and George Nitzburg. Sister of Harold Finkelstein and of both the late Milton Finkelstein and Sol Finkelstein. Sister-in-law of Sylvia Finkelstein and Ruth Finkel
 PEARSON-Sadie (nee Margolin). Loving aunt to Claire and Barry Siskind, Harriet Ziefert, Buzzy Margolin, Carrie Margolin and Craig Margolin, and sister-in-law to Wilma Margolin. Loving sister and friend to Lee Wassner for 83 years. Hard working, conscientious and loyal. Tough to the end with
 ROBBINS-Claire S. On April 9, 2001. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother. A cherished and caring person. Her warmth, and quiet inner strength, touched the lives of so many people, and left a lasting impression. For both family and friends, her loss is profound. Her memory, and spirit, will liv
 STROEHLE-MAKO-Barbara. Of Mantoloking, NJ, New York City and Princeton, NJ on March 29, 2001 in Mount Sinal Hospital, NYC. Survived by her mother Alice (Van de Mark) Stroehle and her husband Elias Mako. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, April 11th, 2001 at 11:30 AM at the Gray Fune
 Beatrice Straight, a graceful and versatile actress who won both an Oscar and a Tony Award, died on Saturday in North Ridge, Calif. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., for most of the last 10 years. Because she came from a wealthy  family, the Whitneys (her mother was Dor
 Marjorie Hunter, a reporter for The New York Times who covered the White House and Congress at a time when most other women in Washington journalism were assigned to the activities of the first lady, died here today. She was 78. The cause was acute leukemia. Journalism was a
 AFROMSKY-Stephanie. On April 7, 2001. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. She will be greatly missed and forever in our hearts.       
 EPSTEIN-Celia. On April 9, 2001 in Florida. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Walter and Ruth. Dear mother-in-law of Susan and Robert Weingarten. Cherished grandmother of Richard, Brian, Allison, Gillian & Liana. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory can be made to
 FRIEDMAN-Naomi. The partners and staff of Wechsler Harwood Halebian and Feffer, LLP are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Naomi Friedman, beloved mother of our partner Andrew Friedman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family.       
 JENKINS-Eileen. Died peacefully on April 9, 2001 in Rye, NY. Predeceased by her parents, her brother Stanley and sister Edna. Eileen was an employee of the International Paper Co. for many years. May she rest in peace, as she joins her family and friends. Graveside service at 10:30 AM on Th
 MAGOWAN-Doris. The Southampton Fresh Air Home Officers and Directors mourn the passing of our beloved friend, honorary chairman, and former trustee who served, counseled and supported our Home for decades. We extend our deepest sympathy to her sons and brother. Barbara Stovall Smith, Presid
 MASTROIANNI-Irma Giallorenzi. Passed away Sunday, April 8, 2001 after an extended illness. She is survived by her son, J.F. Mastroianni. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the ''Bartoli Brain Tumor Laboratory'' at the New York Presbyterian Hospital, (212) 305-5595.       
 MATISSE-Maria-Gaetana. The Trustees and Staff of the World Monuments Fund note with great sadness the death of Tana Matisse, a devoted friend. The Trustees wish to acknowledge her generous support of the organization's long-term preservation efforts at the historic city of Angkor in Cambodi
 MILLER-Marcia. Age 60 years young, passed away April 9,2001. Loving wife, mother, daughter, aunt, sister and best friend; the most adoring grandmother; one who never found a day or an incident trouble or a bother; a lover of life, whatever it brought her. She gave us all unconditional love,
 REVKIN-Miriam R. On April 9, survived by her children Alvin, Sheldon and Sari Revkin; her grandchildren and great-grandchild. Visitation today at 12:30 PM, Yablokoff Kingsway Memorial Chapel, 1978 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn, with services at 1:30 PM.       
 RUBINGER-Susan Ellen. On April 9, 2001, after a prolonged and valiant struggle. Beloved daughter of Nancy & Bob. Dear sister of David and Hedy. The world has lost a shining star. Services Thursday, April 12, 11AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. RUBINGER-Susan E
 SCIUTTI-Grazella. Peacefully after a short illness, Graziella Sciutti died on Monday 9 April 2001 in Geneva. Funeral to take place at 14.00 hrs. Tuesday, 17 April at La Chapelle Catholic Italienne, 15 Rue de la Mairie, Geneva. Followed by interment at the Cemetery of Chene-Bougeries. No flo
 SHAPIRO-Norman I. Beloved husand of Gladys, loving father of Anne, loving grandfather of Howard and Meredith. Dear brother of Belle Brunner, Florence Forman, Toby Baron and the late Mildred Elentuck. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, 12 noon Friday       
 STARR-Rose. On April 7, 2001. Beloved wife of Sam. Loving mother of Allan, Norine & Randy. Adoring mother-in-law of Seena & Steven. Cherished grandmother of Erica, Laura & Samantha. Devoted sister of Jack, Ida and Nat and the late Ben and Sarah. We will never forget your kind and loving dee
 VICTOR-Paula Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the tragic passing after a long valiant battle with cancer of a revered colleague. A warm, kind, sensitive and gentle Hazzan. She quietly served the spiritual needs of Temple Beth El of Harrisburg, Pa. since graduating from the H
 WALTER-Martha. Proprietor of Solway House in Saugerties, N.Y. and wife of the late Jack Walter. Died April 8, 2001. She is survived by her children Barry, Lanny and Susan, seven grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Services Buono Funeral Services, Saugerties, Thursday, April 12th, 11
 EPSTEIN-Celia. On April 9, 2001 in Florida. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Walter and Ruth. Dear mother-in-law of Susan and Robert Weingarten. Cherished grandmother of Richard, Brian, Allison, Gillian & Liana. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory can be made to
 KAHN-Ethel (nee Finkelstein). On April 9, 2001. In her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Loving mother of Jeanette and Jerry, and Madeline and Ted. Adoring grandmother of Jo-Ann and Joyce. Dear sister of Mildred and the late Sol. Past President of Women's American ORT. Service Thursd
 KATZ-Tess G. On April 11, 2001. Beloved mother of Judith Katz Geschwind. Cherished grandmother of Madeleine and Elyssa. Services Friday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory may be made to City Harvest, 575 8th Ave, 4th Flr, NYC 1001
 KRAMER-Frances. Central Synagogue and its Sisterhood records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Frances Kramer. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President Shirley Steinhauser Sisterhood President       
 MATISSE-Maria-Gaetana. The Trustees, faculty, staff and students of the New York Studio School mourn the passing of Honorary Trustee Maria-Gaetana Matisse. Her generosity and wonderful presence in the world of art will be sadly missed.       
 REISMAN-Anna. Loving mother and grandmother. Departed this life in her 98th year. With love and many memories. Your sons Marvin & Albert       
 SAIDEL-Sara F. Died suddenly on April 10. She was much loved by her children Marc & Sheri Saidel, Barbara Saidel & Edward Goldberg; her grandchildren Eric and Tahl Saidel, Jenna and Michael Lebowich, Anna & Isaac Goldberg; and her great granddaughters Eliana Saidel & Marina Lebowich. She ma
 SINGER-David. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 10, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Frances (Elkind). Devoted father of Carolyn Michaeli and her husband Israel of Wayland, MA. and Judith Bates and her husband Stephen of New Brunswick, CN. Survived by four grandsons and one great granddaught
 VALENCY-Janet. On April 7th at age 91 after a long illness. Widow of playwright & Columbia University Emeritus Professor Maurice Valency, she was a distinguished designer & head of her own studio for many years. A woman of great style, vivacity, and charm, she will be missed by her many fri
 ADLER-Rita (nee Hirsch). Beloved wife of the late Leo, died early Wednesday morning, April 11th. Born on May 1st, 1915, in Washington Heights, NY, she lived a happy and full life in West Hempstead, NY and Weston, FL. After earning a BS degree in Nutrition at NYU, she taught Home Economics a
 BECKWITT-Ottilie. On April 11, 2001 in her 102nd year, died peacefully at home. She will be remembered for her grace, intelligence, and humanity. Service today, April 13, 9:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 JAKOBOVICS-Helene. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of or our esteemed, longtime member Helene Jakobovics, beloved mother of our member Alphonse Jakobovics, and of Sylvain (Evelyn) Jakobovics and Elizabeth Oestericher. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and 
 KLEIN-Esther. A great matriarch has died too young on a fortnight and some before her 105th birthday. Beloved & adored mother, sister, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. Daughter of Rascha & Velvel Ohsie, born April 28, 1896, in Vilna, Lithuania. She was predeceased by
 KRAMER-Frances. Of New York City on April 11, 2001. Beloved sister of Beatrice Spielman of Lewisburg, PA., Jerome Kramer and Elaine Rexdale of Hackensack, N.J. and Sydelle and Fred Klinek of Yonkers, N.Y. Her concern for others and her wonderful sense of humor will be missed by her family, 
 LAHN-Jean. Passed away on April 11, 2001 in her 99th year. Survived by her beloved and loving family: husband Philip, daughter Marion, son Daniel, grandchildren Hilary and Simon, daughter-in-law Stefanie Weldon, brother Benjamin and many nieces and nephews. Services Sunday, April 15, 9:45 A
 RAFFERTY-Margaret A. On April 11, 2001 of Kew Garden Hills, New York. Beloved wife of Jim. Dear mother of Mary Fracchia, Rodie Thompson and Jimmy. Loving grandmother of Shannon, Andrew and Blaine. Sister of John McGuire and Frances Phelan. Also survived by many nieces and nephews and grand 
 SAIDEL-Sara F. Died suddenly on April 10. She was much loved by her children Marc & Sheri Saidel, Barbara Saidel and Edward Goldberg; her grandchildren Eric and Tahl Saidel, Jenna and Michael Lebowich, Anna & Isaac Goldberg; and her great granddaughters Eliana Saidel & Marina Lebowich. She 
 SELZER-Claire. M.D., 86. In Syracuse, NY. She was a successful psychoanalyst in NYC delighting in the care of her patients and the world of the mind. Her wit and intelligence will be missed by her nephews, Drs. Michael and Gerard Selzer, Betty Wiese, Inge Selzer and Claire's other family an
 SHULMAN-Muriel. On April 11. She was a beacon of charm and grace who captivated all those whose paths she crossed. A longtime medical secretary at Booth Memorial Hospital, she was adored by all. Beloved survivors including children, Richard Shulman & Ronnie Shulman Mallozzi, & grandchildren
 STRAIGHT-Beatrice. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the passing of our admired colleague and former board member. We extend our sympathies to her entire family. John F. Breglio, Chairman       
 PELLMAN-Edwin. HB, dearest EP ''nature patterned you and when she was done, you were all the sweet things rolled into one...'' Always, MSP       
 Graziella Sciutti, an Italian soprano and opera director whose purity of sound and deft characterizations won her admiration in Mozart, Puccini and Verdi roles, died on Monday in Geneva. She was 73 and lived in Geneva and London. The cause of death was cancer, according to The Assoc
 Nyree Dawn Porter, who entranced millions of television viewers around the world when she starred as the beautiful Irene, trapped in a loveless marriage in the BBC adaptation of John Galsworthy's ''Forsyte Saga'' in the late 1960's, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 61. 
 EISENSTEIN-Trudy. On April 11, 2001. Loving wife of Abraham, devoted sister Claire, beloved mother of Harry, Sheryl and her husband Eric. Adored by her grandchildren Julian and Daniel, & her many nieces and nephews, friend and co-workers. Fun-loving, strong, cheerful, and eternally young at
 FLANDERS-Jane. Of Pelham Manor died Thursday afternoon, April 12, 2001. She was 61. Beloved wife of Steven Flanders, she was the cherished mother of Kathryn Flanders Ryan of Providence, R.I., Benjamin Flanders of Cincinnati, Elinor Flanders of Chicago, and grandmother of Jack Ryan of Provid
 GLADSTONE-Lillian. Age 95, of Teaneck, NJ and West Palm Beach, FL. She was a retired coowner of Gladstone-Sylvette Shops of Jersey City and Paterson, NJ. Beloved mother of Ruth Brod of Fort Lee, NJ and Phyllis Kresch of Fair Lawn, NJ; beloved grandmother of Carole Sherer of River Edge, NJ, 
 KLEIN-Esther. A great matriarch has died too young on a fortnight and some before her 105th birthday. Beloved & adored mother, sister, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. Daughter of Rascha and Velvel Ohsie, born April 28, 1896, in Vilna, Lithuania. She was predeceased 
 PREMICE-Josephine. On April 13, 2001. Actress, singer, wife and mother. Loving mother of Enrico Fales & Susan Fales-Hill. Devoted sister of Adele Premice. Also survived by her husband Timothy Fales and many loving relatives and friends. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 WEISBERG-Aileen S. April 12, 2001. Beloved wife of Michael. Devoted mother of Perry. Cherished grandmother of Frances and Zachary. Loving sister of Herbert. A beautful and gracious lady who was very dedicated to her family, friends and her teaching career. She will be deeply missed by all w
 Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J. The cause was breast cancer, her f
 ARSCOTT-Lois Coffin. On March 23. Beloved wife of the late John R. Arscott. Loving mother of David and John and mother-in-law of Ann and Martha. Cherished grandmother of David, Devon, Jennifer, John, Philip and Tristram. Great grandmother of Ian, Luke and Mary Teresa. A memorial service in 
 CIRILLO-Edith Arabella. Peacefully on Palm Sunday in her eighty-third year following a full and fullfilling life, leaving her children Diana, Joan and Richard, daughter-in-law Kathleen and grandchildren Amanda, Ted and Ben whom she loved and by whom she was equally loved. Wife of Paul Ciril
 EISENSTEIN-Trudy. On April 11, 2001. Loving wife of Abraham, devoted sister of Claire, beloved mother of Harry, Sheryl and her husband Eric. Adored by her grandchildren Julian and Daniel, & her many nieces and nephews, friends and co-workers. Fun-loving, strong, cheerful, and eternally youn
 FLANDERS-Jane. Of Pelham Manor died Thursday afternoon, April 12, 2001. She was 61. Beloved wife of Steven Flanders, she was the cherished mother of Kathryn Flanders Ryan of Providence, R.I., Benjamin Flanders of Cincinnati, Elinor Flanders of Chicago, and grandmother of Jack Ryan of Provid
 KLEIN-Esther. A great matriarch has died too young on a fortnight and some before her 105th birthday. Beloved & adored mother, sister, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. Daughter of Rascha and Velvel Ohsie, born April 28, 1896, in Vilna, Lithuania. She was predeceased 
 PEPPER-Anita Golden, Dr. In loving memory of our wife, mother, dearest friend, teacher, who died April 7, 2001 at her home in Montague, MA on her 46th wedding anniversary at age 73. Professor, passionate advocate for peace, social justice, healthcare for all, the special concerns of mothers
 PREMICE-Josephine. On April 13, 2001. Actress, singer, wife and mother. Loving mother of Enrico Fales & Susan Fales-Hill. Devoted sister of Adele Premice. Also survived by her husband Timothy Fales and many loving relatives and friends. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 ROBINSON - Anne Grosvenor. Daughters Kip Greenthal and Grosvie Cooley honor their cherished mother who died suddenly March 11, 2001. Born August 5, 1919, she attended Miss. Chapin's, Foxcroft, and Vassar, graduating in 1940 at age twenty. She wrote for The New York Daily News, where she was
 RUBINGER-Susan. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to Bob and our past Board member, Nancy Rubinger, on the passing of their beloved daughter, Susan. A former staff member, Susan will be remembered for her kindness and devotion to others. Ma
 WEISBERG-Aileen S. April 12, 2001. Beloved wife of Michael. Devoted mother of Perry. Cherished grandmother of Frances and Zachary. Loving sister of Herbert. A beautful and gracious lady who was very dedicated to her family, friends and her teaching career. She will be deeply missed by all w
 ROLFE-Goldie. In tribute to a lady who personified ''unconditional love.'' Grandma. Missing her, but loving the memories.       
 BERMAN-Florence. On April 12, at age 79. She will be remembered for her valiant spirit and her advocacy of fellow residents of The Jewish Home and Hospital. Howard, Carol, Kate Silverstein, Paul, Liam, Georgia Galligan, Georgi Michele       
 HAMMERMAN-Fay. The Board of Trustees of BHSSC and all its members mourn the passing of Fay Hammerman, mother of our distinguished Board member, Stephen. Fay, along with her late husband, Dave, were founders of our agency. Their concern for developmentally disabled children and adults will b
 PIEROT-Louise A. Beloved wife of Jacobus, loving mother of Evy, who both predeceased her. She died peacefully on April 12, 2001. Cremation will be private. Because of her great love of animals, donations in lieu of flowers can be made to the Animal Medical Center of New York, 510 East 62nd 
 Josephine Premice, an actress nominated for Tony Awards for her performances in the musical ''Jamaica'' and ''A Hand Is on the Gate,'' an evening of black poetry, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74. The cause was emphysema. Ms. Premice, whose married name wa
 BECKER-Barbara Ann. January 1, 1937-April 13, 2001. Survived by her husband of fortythree years, Theodore Becker. Devoted mother to Cara Becker Lichtenstein, son-in-law Lorry Lichtenstein, and son, Jeffrey Scott Becker, mother, Dorothy Brotman and Studley Dog. Cherished ''Little Nana'', to 
 DONALDSON-Dorothy ''Wally''. August 21, 1907-April 13, 2001 Born in Brooklyn, New York, Dorothy began a dancing and acting career at the age of 13. She moved to Hollywood in 1928 to work for MGM Studios, where she met songwriter Walter Donaldson. They married and had two children, Sheila an
 FRADKIN-Dorothy. Hashomer Hatzair Zionist Youth Movement and Camp Shomria mourn the loss of Dorothy Fradkin, our devoted friend, advisor and longtime lay consultant to Camp Shomria. She died in Florida on April 13, 2001 after a valiant struggle. Our condolences to her husband Abe, her child
 GANZ-Pauline Sternlicht. Born 1906 in New York City to Adolph Sternlicht and Anna Scher Sternlicht. Pauline attended the Juilliard Institute of Musical Art, now known as The Juilliard School, where she was a student of Olga Samaroff. After graduation she became a concert pianist and, as Pau
 HORGAN-Dorothy F. On April 16, 2001 at home in her beloved Taos, New Mexico. Arriving in Taos in 1943, she became the friend of many artists and writers, and quietly became part of the Taos lgend. Taos Mountain embraced and fulfilled her.       
 IRWIN-Marian S. On April 16, at age 71, after a courageous, decades-long stand against cancer. Longtime assistant director of Riverdale Senior Services in the Bronx, former chair of the Northwest Bronx Council on Aging, former president of the RiverdaleYonkers Society for Ethical Culture, a
 MERLO PRODANI-Dorothy. The Board of Trustees and the entire Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the untimely death of Dorothy Merlo Prodani '72. Dorothy was a former trustee and the alumni executive board chairperson for six years. Her enthusiasm was an inspiration 
 PIEROT-Louise A. The Board of Trustees of the Animal Medical Center mourns the passing of Honory Trustee, Louise A. Pierot. Mrs. Pierot devotedly and cheerfully served AMC as a volunteer in the office of development for more than 17 years and was appointed Honorary Trustee in 1988. We exten
 SCHLUSSEL - Barbara. Adored wife of Sy Schlussel, M.D. for 49 years. Mother of her beloved son Ralph and sister of Herbert Simon. Passed away April 15. She was genuinely the most devoted loving mother, always selflessly willing to sacrifice and forego personal rewards in caring for her Ralp
 TOBIAS-Mollie. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Mollie Tobias, beloved mother-in-law of Lynn Tobias, a dear friend who offers invaluable leadership as a member of our Board of Directors and as chair of the Manhattan Di
 VALENTE-Aurelia Cella. On April 13. Beloved wife of the late Justice Francis L. Valente. Loving mother of Francis, Jr. and Peter, and mother-in-law of Shirley and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Francis III, Barbara, Susan and David. Great-grandmother of Rachel and Lauren. On Wednesday, Ap
 BRESLIN-Natalie C. On April 15, 2001, at age 105. Former teacher in New York City Board of Education. Survived by her brother Alfred. Also survived by several nieces and nephews. Sister of the late John, Arthur, Walter and Annette. Mass of Christian Burial Wednesday at 11:15 A.M. at St. Eph
 CIMBALA-Geral (Geri). The tragic, untimely death of Geral (Geri) Cimbala, young, gifted photographer, will be mourned by her family and friends.       
 DONALDSON-Dorothy ''Wally''. August 21, 1907-April 13, 2001 Born in Brooklyn, New York, Dorothy began a dancing and acting career at the age of 13. She moved to Hollywood in 1928 to work for MGM Studios, where she met songwriter Walter Donaldson. They married and had two children, Sheila an
 EDELSTEIN-Alberta G. Wife of the late Joseph Edelstein. Passed away in Florida on April 14th. She is survived by sisters, Mildred Chomas and Laura Ornstein, and a multitude of loving nieces and nephews. Graveside services at Riverside Cemetery, Rochelle Park, NJ, Thursday, 1:30 PM.       
 HAMM-Ruth. Died April 17 at her home in New York City. Born in Breslau, Germany in 1913, she immigrated to USA with her late husband F. Werner Hamm during World War II. Together with Vera and George Neumann they founded Scarves by Vera -later Vera Industries. She is survived by her sons Tho
 HORGAN-Dorothy F. On April 16, 2001 at home in her beloved Taos, New Mexico. Arriving in Taos in 1943, she became the friend of many artists and writers, and quietly became part of the Taos lgend. Taos Mountain embraced and fulfilled her.       
 JACOBY-Helen. Of Manhattan. Ardent mother, grandmother; adoring sister, sister-in-law, aunt; trustworthy friend; eternal devotee of fun, laughs, good times. Real life movie star to everyone who experienced her luster. Died in her 2nd home in, fittingly, Hollywood Beach, April 16. Lucky are 
 KORNREICH-Rae (nee Wander). Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel, devoted mother of Robert and Randi, John and Janet, loving sister of Howard, adoring grandmother of Pamela, Jennifer, Joshua, and cherished friend of Ralph. A former English teacher at Forest Hills High School. She will be reme
 LEE-Sarah Tomerlin. The New York School of Interior Design mourns the loss of devoted trustee and honorary alumna, Sarah Tomerlin Lee. Her distinguished career in hospitality design, fashion, and journalism is an inspiration to our students. Our condolences are extended to her sons Todd and
 MOSKOWITZ-Gloria Helen. On April 16, 2001, Gloria died and left her memory to her beloved family and friends. Her whole life cannot be captured in these words, but can be reflected in these images. Her lifelong love for the printed word is represented by her love for the Public Library of I
 MULLER-Dody nee Dolores James. Died April 17 in New York City. Born in Dallas, TX, she came to New York to complete her Master's Degree and to paint. Along with her husband, Jan Muller, she was a founding member of The Hansa Gallery and a vital force in the arts scene during the 1950s and 6
 NEIMAN-Ada (nee Epstein) 85, on April 17, 2001. Beloved wife of 62 years to Phil. Loving mother of Steve Neiman and Micki Friedman and the mother in law of Robert G. Friedman. Devoted Grandmother of Deborah and Matthew. Ada was the last surviving sibling of five brothers. She leaves many lo
 NOTKIN-Melinda (Goldberg) in San Francisco, CA on April 15, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Shelby, cherished mother of Michelle & James Rosen, ''Grandma Mel'' to Zachary Rosen; loving daughter of Evelyn and the late Barnet Goldberg; adored sister of Gla
 RICHMAN-Martin. On April 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Alan Richman, Jane Gewant and her husband Kenneth. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer. Very dear and devoted only son of the late Fannie and Henry Richman. First Lieutenant in U.S. Army in World War II. Awarded Med
 SCHIEFFELIN-Joy Williams Proctor. Peacefully on April 16 at age 77. Born in New York City. Devoted wife of the late William Jay Schieffelin III. Loving mother of Hope Dooley of Mt. Kisco NY, Timothy P. of Greenwich, Conn. Andrew L. of Westport, Conn., Michael M. of Southborough, Mass. Pre-d
 SCHLUSSEL - Barbara. Adored wife of Sy Schlussel, M.D. for 49 years. Mother of her beloved son Ralph and sister of Herbert Simon. Passed away April 15. She was genuinely the most devoted loving mother, always selflessly willing to sacrifice and forego personal rewards in caring for her Ralp
 STITSKIN-Dorothy. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Dr. Leon Stitskin. Devoted mother of Rochelle and Dr. Henry Dicker, Debra H. and Rabbi Sol Roth, and Miriam and Dr. Oscar Krater; adoring grandmother of Steven and Karen Roth, David Krater, Shira Dicker and Ari Goldman, Lisa and Earl Strum, A
 TOWER-Beatrix. Passed away peacefully on April 16, 2001. She will be missed terribly by her children, Mara Chwatt and Greg and Gail Tower, and by her grandchildren, Glenn and Lori Chwatt, Suzanne and Craig Litt, Jaime and Evan Friedman, Guy Tower and Grant Tower. Her adoring great grandchil
 VALENTE-Aurelia Cella. On April 13. Beloved wife of the late Justice Francis L. Valente. Loving mother of Francis, Jr. and Peter, and mother-in-law of Shirley and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Francis III, Barbara, Susan and David. Great-grandmother of Rachel and Lauren. On Wednesday, Ap
 WEXLER-Myrna Audrey. A resident of Westport, CT, since 1951, wife of Dr. Richard Wexler, mother of Glenna (Carl) Goodman, Nomi (Robert) Jacobs, and William (Ronnie) Meltzer, died April 12th after a long illness. She is also survived by two stepsons, David (Cindy) Wexler and Daniel (Arlene) 
 CONN-Ruth. Of East Quogue and New York City, died on April 18, 2001 after a long and valiant fight against cancer, at her home in East Quogue, surrounded by those whom she loved most. Beloved wife of Stephen R. Conn and mother of Orin Conn and of Omri Green and Ira and Lynn Liran, she was t
 DONALDSON-Dorothy ''Wally''. August 21, 1907-April 13, 2001 Born in Brooklyn, New York, Dorothy began a dancing and acting career at the age of 13. She moved to Hollywood in 1928 to work for MGM Studios, where she met songwriter Walter Donaldson. They married and had two children, Sheila an
 FLANAGAN-Judith Ann. Died peacefully in her home in Monterrey, California on April 8. 2001. A pioneering midwife, Judith was born in Brooklyn in 1937 and spent the majority of her professional life in California. She is survived by her loving daughter Laura and her brothers Michael and Pete
 GERSHWEIR - Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Diane and Barry. Cherished grandmother of Sabin, Max, Stacey, Spencer, Joshua, Bryan and Alicia. Great grandmother of Abigal and Benjamin. Service Friday, 12 Noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount 
 HARRIS-Blanche E. Age 92. Died peacefully at William Breman Jewish Home in Atlanta, Georgia on April 17. She is survived by her nephew Harry B. Bernhard of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, her grand-nephew Dr. Michael H. Bernhard of State College, Pa., her grand-niece, Dr. Nancy E. Bernhard of 
 KLEIN-Harriet J. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the loss of Harriet J. Klein of Baltimore, beloved wife of Philip E. Klein, co-chair of the ATS Baltimore Chapter and Honorary Fellow of the Technion. Harriet and her husband achieved the high
 KLEINER-Rose. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang and other members of the Polytechnic University family express heartfelt sorrow and join in mourning the passing of Rose Kleiner, beloved wife of Trustee Eugene Kleiner, founding partner of Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers. Mrs
 LEE-Sarah Tomerlin. Distinguished interior designer, fashion editor, advertising executive, beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, April 25, 2001 at 10 A.M. at Christ Church, 520 Park Ave at 60th St. Her family welcomes all colleagues & fr
 LEEDS-Sylvia Shaw, October 26, 1914-April 17, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Maxwell J. Leeds. Loving mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She was a Founding Director of the Maxwell Leeds Pediatric Tumor Foundation at Babies Hospital, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, known today a
 LIGNON-Alfred, 74. On April 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Martina. Loving father of Monique and her husband, Gary Marton. Adored grandfather of Simone and Danielle. Service at 2PM on April 24 in the Memorial Chapel at NY Presbyterian Hospital. Donations in Fred's memory may be made to NY Pre
 LIPPIN-Roschelle. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Renee Leicht upon the loss of her mother. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MEYERS-Helen Goldstein. Of Scarsdale and Orleans, MA., 95, died on April 13. A 1927 graduate of Brooklyn Law School, clerked for Justice Murray Hearn, the first woman attorney at the firm of Bachrach, Bachrach and Bisgyer, President of the Brooklyn Womens Bar Association. Tax editor at J.K.
 SCHIEFFELIN-Joy Williams Proctor. Peacefully on April 16 at age 77. Born in New York City. Devoted wife of the late William Jay Schieffelin III. Loving mother of Hope Dooley of Mt. Kisco NY, Timothy P. of Greenwich, Conn. Andrew L. of Westport, Conn., Michael M. of Southborough, Mass. Pre-d
 SCHLUSSEL - Barbara. Adored wife of Sy Schlussel, M.D. for 49 years. Mother of her beloved son Ralph and sister of Herbert Simon. Passed away April 15. She was genuinely the most devoted loving mother, always selflessly willing to sacrifice and forego personal rewards in caring for her Ralp
 BASSANO-Angelina. On April 19th, 2001, at the age of 80. Loving mother of Louise and Joseph. Beloved sister of Lawrence, Ana, Millie and Marie. Devoted grandmother and aunt. She was special and everyone who knew her was blessed. We will all miss you. Love, The DellaCorte Family       
 CANNON-Maud (nee Brogan). April 18, 2001. Of Newtown Square, PA. Formerly of Jamaica, New Yirk. Beloved wife of the late Connell Cannon. Loving mother of Connell Christopher (Kathleen) Cannon of Haverford, PA & Kevin F. Cannon of Taos, NM. Sister of Della Turner, Nonie Fahey and Anne Morris
 KASS-Ida. Formerly of Paterson, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Kass, devoted mother of Rabbi Alvin and the late Dr. Morton. Loving mother-in-law of Miryom and Joyce, adoring grandmother of Marcia & David, Susan and Sam, Sarah, Lewis, Danny, and Debby, Edward, and Miryam. Adorin
 KNEETER-Esther nee Crystal. On April 18, 2001. Survived by her daughters, Marilyn and Shelley, sons-in-law, Jan and John, loving grandchildren, Eric, Wendy, Howard and great-granddaughter, Rebecca. Funeral services today at 1:30 PM at Weinstein-Garlick-Kirschenbaum Chapels, 1153 Coney Islan
 SHATZKES-Bella, Reb. Emunah of America mourns the passing of Reb. Bella Shatzkes, beloved mother of Charlotte Dachs, Honorary National President. She was a great lady who was devoted to her family and left a legacy of Chesed for Am Yisrael, always choosing Emunah's children in Israel as a p
 STEIN-Bessie. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the passing of Bessie Stein of Miami Beach and Philadelphia, a generous and dedicated supporter of the Technion along with her late husband Louis Stein. As champions of the ATS, the
 ARKELL-Magdalen F. (nee Fullum). Passed away peacefully at her home in Coral Gables, FL, on May 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William C. Arkell, Jr. Loving mother of Rosalie Deak and the late Angela Mitchell. Adoring grandmother of Jennifer, Michael and Daniel Simmonds. We will miss th
 MAGEE-Marie E., 75. Of St. Petersburg, FL died April 18, 2001 at her residence. She was born in Baltimore, Maryland and moved to St. Petersburg in 1989. She was an attorney and judge in New York City, practicing law from 1942 to 1989 working with EEOC. She was a 1949 graduate of Fordham Uni
 Alice M. Gritsavage, who was chief nurse of the Far East command during the Korean War and Gen. Douglas MacArthur's nursing consultant, died on Monday in Daytona Beach, Fla. She was 98. In the Korean War, Ms. Gritsavage revolutionized the command structure of the Army Nursing Corps,
 Carolyn R. Payton, a psychologist who was the first black and the first woman to head the Peace Corps, died on April 11 at her home in Washington. She was 75. The cause was a heart attack. Dr. Payton was director of the Peace Corps from September of 1977 until November 1978.
 ARKELL-Magdalen F. (nee Fullum). Passed away peacefully at her home in Coral Gables, FL, on May 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William C. Arkell, Jr. Loving mother of Rosalie Deak and the late Angela Mitchell. Adoring grandmother of Jennifer, Michael and Daniel Simmonds. We will miss th
 BROWN-Muriel ORR. 92 of Staten Island and NYC. Passed peacefully on April 19, 2001 at Kateri Residence in Manhattan after a long illness. Beloved widow of the late Isaac Brown and mother of the late Gerard Brown. She is survived by sons Dr. Norman Brown of Staten Island, Dr. Howard Brown of
 HILL-Elena Karam. On March 30, 2001 in San Francisco, CA, at 92. She was a member of the Group Theater in the 1930's and an actress on Broadway and in films for 40 years. Wife of John W. Hill, founder of Hill & Knowlton Inc. public relations firm. Survived by daughter Alexandra Karam of San
 KLEIN-Judith Z. (nee Schneier). On April 20, 2001. Born in Poland, raised on the lower east side and the Bronx. Graduated Hunter College and received a masters degree in education from CCNY, voice scholarship at Turtle Bay Music School. Sang professionally and taught ballroom dancing. Taugh
 KLEINER-Rose. Died at home with her family on April 14, 2001, in Los Altos Hills, CA. Loving and beloved wife of Eugene Kleiner for 54 years, mother of Robert Kleiner and Lisa Kleiner Chanoff, grandmother of Jake Kleiner and Yael, Talia and Eli Chanoff, and sister of Bruno Wassertheil. Rose
 LEE-Sarah Tomerlin. Distinguished interior designer, fashion editor, advertising executive, beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, April 25, 2001 at 10 A.M. at Christ Church, 520 Park Ave at 60th St. Her family welcomes all colleagues & fr
 LEEPSON-LENLEY-Lenore. A loving grandmother and a fine human being. Because of her, we have accomplished so much in life. We love and miss her. Jay, Keith, Matthew, Julie & Dana LEEPSON-LENLEY-Leonore. On April 21, 2001, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Emil Leepson and Ja
 VIETOR-Barbara Diane. 63, of Manhattan. Daughter of the late Henry Theodore and Mary (Stoker) Vietor, died April 17, 2001. A graduate of Tufts University, Barabara was a long time employee of Pan American Airlines and most recently of Random House. She leaves her brother Richard Vietor and 
 Maria-Gaetana Matisse, widow of the art dealer Pierre Matisse and a driving force behind the foundation that donated his vast personal archive to the Pierpont Morgan Library, died on April 7 in Manhattan. She was 58. The cause was kidney failure, said a spokeswoman for the Pierre an
 GOLDSTEIN-Rita. 96, of Sagamore Lake, Carmel, died on Saturday, April 21. She was the devoted and loving wife of the deceased Charles Goldstein. She is survived by her sister Sara Katzman, nieces Beverly Katzman and Rochelle Selig, nephews Franklin Roth, Peter Goldstein, grandniece Mara Gol
 LEEPSON-LENLEY-Leonore. On April 21, 2001, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Emil Leepson and Jay E. Lenley. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Susan and Max Kooper and Lorna and Richard Braunschweiger. Adored grandmother of Jay and Keith Kooper and Matthew, Julie and Dana Braunsc
 LITCHFIELD-Marjorie S. Mrs. Marjorie deGreeff Litchfield, known to her family and friends as Bambi, died on April 17, 2001, at her home in Katonah, after a long illness. Mrs. Litchfield was born in New York on October 31, 1918. She moved with her family to Mt. Kisco in the late 1920's. She 
 SEGALL-Frances. On April 20, 2001. Wife of the late Walter Segall. Survived by her children Inge Muhlfelder and Ralph Segall, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mrs. Segall was a longtime employee of AMAX. A graveside service was held on Sunday.       
 WEITMAN-Jackie. The Be'er Hagolah Institute for Russian immigrants expresses its deep sorrow on the passing of Mrs. Jackie Weitman. Her rare beauty and extraordinary strength will long be remembered. She instilled in her children a feeling of responsibility toward helping others less fortun
 BERSON-Pearl. Beloved wife of the late Raymond. Devoted mother of Steven, Susan and Barbara, and mother-in-law of Harriet and Ed. Adored grandmother of Matthew, Lauren, Sam and Leah. Services Tuesday, 1PM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. Contributions may be made to
 BIANCHI-Anne, 53. Founder of Toscana Saporita Cooking School & author of many books on Italian culture and cuisine, died April 22nd. A lifetime resident of NYC, she is remembered by her family and friends for her boundless energy and passion for life. Survived by her mother, Maria Bianchi o
 COHEN-Marilyn. Beloved wife of Melvin. Loving mother of Helene and Ken, Robin and Paul, and Stephen and Beth. Cherished grandmother of Erica, David, Michael, Andrew and Alyssa. Dear sister of Jerome and Harold. COHEN-Marilyn. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of
 FLANCE-Blanche J. On April 20th, 2001. Retired employee of J.P. Morgan. Blanche was a longtime volunteer with the New York City Opera and New York City Ballet. Blanche also was the Number 1 New York Jets fan who attended all games, home and away. For information Martin A. Gleason Funeral Ho
 HARVEY-Clara. Died April 20, 2001. Loved by daughters Lisa and Cynthia, sisters Ethel and Juanita, grandson Conal and nieces and nephews. Mrs. Harvey gave so much of herself to her daughters. Born in Mexico, she resided in California (where she married Gordon Harvey-the marriage ended in 19
 HOFFNER-Faye. Age 92. April 21. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Hoffner. Loving and devoted mother of Sheila Davis and Dr. Burton Hoffner. Caring mother-inlaw of Dr. William Davis and Lois Hoffner. Cherished grandmother of Jordan Davis & his wife Maria, Mitchell Davis, Jennifer Hoffner, Emi
 KONES-Marilyn. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Marilyn Kones, beloved mother of Sheryl Kamen. We extend our deepest condolences to Sheryl and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 KOREN-Beatrice. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her sisters Ruth Fuhrman and Helen Raticoff and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Pa
 MILLER-Marjorie Cohn. Died Sunday, April 22. Beloved wife of the late Joseph F. Miller. Brother of Peter Arnold. Loving mother of Kenneth and Keith Miller and Katharine Burger. Grandmother of Alison, David, Daniel and Jeffrey Miller, Pamela Bonney, Ethan and Wyatt Sprague. Greatgrandmother 
 MOSKOWITZ-E. Lucille. 99. Died at home April 21, 2001. A strong, generous, unique women, she taught kindergarten for 40 years. She devoted her retirement years to caring for her beloved husband, Louis (died 1974) and to volunteer work. She is survived by her loving children Bob (Jo An) and 
 SCHICKLER-Shirley. We mourn the untimely loss of our beloved cousin, Shirley Schickler of Brooklyn and Sun City West. Our hearts go out to her husband Harry, sons Paul, Steve, Lane and their respective families. Services at 12:15 today at Yablokoff FH, 1978 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn. Co
 STARK-Jane. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Alumni Association & Staff Society regretfully announce the passing of Jane Stark in California this past Thursday, April 19, 2001. Ms. Stark served as the Executive Secretary of both the Postgraduate Institute and Alumni Association for many y
 STEERE-Dorothy Osborne. The Board, Staff and Friends of the New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved friend Dorothy Osborne Steere. Dorothy was the widow of William Campbell Steere, Sr, distinguished international botanist, mentor to generations of researcher
 TULLMAN - Natalie Kreisberg (nee Liflander). Died on April 20, 2001 in N.Y. University Hospital after a brief illness at the age of 97. She had lived her whole life in N.Y.C. Natalie is survived by her daughter, Paula Kreisberg Ulrich and husband Carl of Peers, Alberta, Canada, and her son 
 Maria Karnilova, a charter member of American Ballet Theater who channeled her comic gifts and vitality as a dancer into an award-winning career as an actress on Broadway, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan. A versatile performer, Ms. Karnilova won a Tony
 HUBER-Marion. Age 95 of Colts Neck, NJ entered eternal life on Sunday, April 22, 2001. Born in New York City, NY, Miss Huber resided in Locust, N.J. most of her life before moving to Colts Neck in recent years. She was a dedicated financial supporter for the Blind & Dyslexic Children and al
 SPRUNG-Judy. Died on April 22nd. Talented musician, devoted teacher, dear friend. Will be remembered for her zest for life & great sense of humor. Memorial service to be announced. Friends of Judy       
 STAVIS-Bernice Coe, 81. On April 24, 2001. She is survived by her husband, playwright Barrie Stavis, daughter Jane, son Alex, and sister Doris. A pioneer in the television distribution business, she founded Coe Film Associates in 1970, influencing programming and mentoring a generation of w
 HEINKELE-Mary Margaret (Peggy). Of Atlantis, Florida. Beloved wife of fifty-two years of the late E. James. Cherished mother of Peggy Anne Dineen and Mary H. Swinford. Loving grandmother of Danielle Dineen. Sister of William F. Robbett, M.D. & the late Gerard J. Rabbett. A Mass of Christian
 ROGOW-Helen. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the passing of Helen Rogow of Boca Raton, Florida, and Avon, Conn, an Honorary Member of the Technion International Board of Governors, a Life Trustee of the National Board of Regents, and a member of th
 SCUDDER-Saidie E. Of Mill Neck, L.I. on April 24, 2001, in her 94th year. Beloved daughter of the late P. Halstead and Sarah Townsend; sister of the late Hazel L. Visitation at the funeral home of DodgeThomas, Glen Cove, Friday 3-5 & 7-9. Service at Matinecock Friends Meeting House, Saturda
 TANNENBAUM-Gloria (nee Osband). April 24, 2001 of Baldwin, NY. Loving wife of 59 years to Leonard, mother to Cara (Bruce) and Saul (Genevieve) adoring grandmother of Leah and Sophie Byland. Source of energy, inspiration and vitality to all whose lives she touched. Funeral Thursday,11 A.M. a
 FESEFELDT-Julie. All of us at Slomin's mourn the passing, on April 26th, of our cherished Julie Fesefeldt, who from the age of 17 has been a part of our ''family''. Julie brought sunshine into the lives of all who knew her. In the last three years she increased our breast cancer awareness a
 PEZZELLA-Sandra Faye. Died on April 22, 2001 at the age of 48. She is survived by her husband Frank Pezzella; father and mother Cornelius and Mary Jefferson; daughters Serena Pezzella and Danielle Pezzella and five brothers and sisters. The Funeral Service will be held at Burr Davis Sharpe 
 ROSS-Constance L. Graphic designer and artist, age 39, died on April 25, 2001. A loving daughter of Gloria Rosenstein & Henry Ross. Adored sister of Katherine, Jane and David. Devoted aunt to India, Jonathan & Andrew. A dedicated and loving friend to many. Her caring friendship and loving s
 SLATTERY-Annabelle. William Doyle Galleries is deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved Annabelle Slattery, a member of our family for over 25 years. Annabelle's warm greetings and professional advice set the standard for service to thousands of our clients. We will forever miss the wise 
 STEERE-Dorothy Osborne, 92. Died at her residence in Bronxville on April 23. She was known as the ''First Lady'' of the New York Botanical Garden, where her late husband, William Campbell Steere, Sr., was President from 1958 to 1972. Mrs. Steere served on the executive board of the Garden. 
 Del GIUDICE-Rose Genna. Died peacefully on Tuesday, April 24, 2001 after a courageous battle with breast cancer. She was devoted to her family and friends, and she was loved and revered by all of them. Her love of people, her sense of humor and hope, and the sweetness of her radiant smile w
 GAULL-Sherry Heffernan, 67. Of Washington, DC, Wednesday, April 25, of cancer at Johns Hopkins Medical Center, Baltimore, MD. She was the beloved mother of Shelagh Ellman-Pearl, Tom Ellman, Barat Ellman, Kitsey Canaan and Nan Ellman and cherished grandmother of nine granddaughters. Mrs. Gau
 ROSS-Constance L. Graphic designer and artist, age 39, died on April 25, 2001. A loving daughter of Gloria Rosenstein & Henry Ross. Adored sister of Katherine, Jane and David. Devoted aunt to India, Jonathan & Andrew. A dedicated and loving friend to many. Her caring friendship and loving s
 SIMONSON-Dr. Hana. Witty, brilliant, caring, courageous, honest, devoted, loving wife, sister, mother and grandmother. She endeared herself to whomever she met, wherever, whenever. A straight talker, she told it as it was-no pretense, no nonsense. Her rare & remarkable courage & strength in
 SLATTERY-Annabelle T. On April 26, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edmund J. Slattery. Loving aunt of Ann T. Bisenius and her husband Charles, Margaret C. Kelley and her husband Paul, and J. Peter Donovan and his wife Joan. She will be deeply missed by her many grand and great grand nieces &
 AUER-Elizabeth Croker. A longtime resident of Armonk, NY, on April 27, age 81. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Auer later moved with her family to White Plains, before moving to Cedarhurst, LI. She graduated from Our Lady of Mercy Academy, Syosset, NY, and was married for 55 years to the late Georg
 DUNN-Edith (nee Goldstein). April 26, 2001, Larchmont, NY. Age 87. Beloved widow of Joseph, devoted mother of Joy, Perry, and her husband Bruce, and Richard. Adored grandmother of Brendan (Abby), Rennie, David Hoffman. Her love of life and her humor will be greatly missed.       
 EVERETT-Katherine Van Keuren. On December 29, 2000, in Somers, NY. Predeceased by her husband, Martin R. Everett, and her daughter, Elizabeth Everett Hunt. She is survived by her son, Martin R. Everett, Jr., of Mt. Kisco, NY, two granddaughters, and a great-grandson. Formerly of Lime Rock, 
 FROMMER-Sylvia. On April 28, at 88 years of age. Cherished wife of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Paul Robert and Martin Stephen and adopted mother and friend to many who were fortunate to receive her loving kindness, concern and support. Her spirit will thrive within us always.       
 KAPLOW-Herbert. April 26, 2001. Of Coconut Creek, FL, and Long Beach, NY. Beloved husband of the late Geraldine Kaplow. Dear father of Robert (Lois) Kaplow and Carol (James) Gumpert. Adored grandfather of Julie and Jeffrey Kaplow, Evan Gumpert and Jessica Gumpert. Loving brother of Irving (
 LEVINE-Larry. Melinda Bush deeply mourns the untimely passing of Larry Levine and sends her deepest sympathy to the Levine family. LEVINE-Laurence. April 24, 2001. Your friends Jorge, Ana, Marcarena & Jorge Jr. Dominguez will miss you and say a prayer in your memory.       
 LINDLEY - Lucille (nee Ber tolette). Formerly of Rye, New York. Born in San Francisco. Died Friday, April 20, 2001, at her home in Kennebunkport, ME. Beloved wife of the late Allen L. Lindley. Devoted mother of Allen L. Lindley Jr. of Norwalk, CT, and Elizabeth Bird of Santa Fe, NM. Survive
 MITTELMARK-Janice E. Passed away peacefully on Thursday, April 26, 2001. Survived by devoted husband Philip, loving children Tami, Brad and Lisa, cherished grandchildren Dayna, Rebecca, Paul, Andrew, Sam and Austin. She was a successful financial manager for various artists in the fashion i
 MORGAN-Maureen J. On April 27, 2001, at age 45. Vice President, Chase Manhattan Bank. Beloved wife of Bob. Loving mother of Robert. Dear sister of James and Kathleen. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at S
 OWEN-Vera Dammann. Born January 14, 1904, Yorkshire, England. Died April 5, 2001, Somers, NY. Predeceased by her first husband, Pierre Dammann, her second husband, Joseph W. Owen, and her son, Jean-Pierre Dammann. Survived by her daughter, Jacqueline Dammann Everett, of Mt. Kisco, NY, six g
 ROGOW-Helen. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family, who together with her partner in life and philanthropy, Louis Rogow, of blessed memory, enabled the school to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men w
 SLATTERY-Annabelle T. On April 26, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edmund J. Slattery. Loving aunt of Ann T. Bisenius and her husband Charles, Margaret C. Kelley and her husband Paul, and J. Peter Donovan and his wife Joan. She will be deeply missed by her many grand and great grand nieces &
 SULLIVAN-Thomas J. on April 24, 2001 of Syosset, N.Y. Beloved husband of Ilse (nee Blum-Hansen). Loving father of Maureen & Patricia Sullivan. Fond father-in-law of Nicholas Dornford. Dear grandfather of Adam. Also survived by one sister Winifred Donahue & her husband John and nephews John 
 WEINER-Miriam (Mimi). The family of Miriam Weiner, her husband Milton, sons Roger and Dennis, and extended family, mourn her loss on April 23, 2001 in Lauderhill, Florida.       
 WINTER-Adele (nee Godfrey), 86. Of Boynton Beach, Florida on April 13. Devoted wife of the late Martin Winter. Dear mother of Carolyn of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, & Marjorie of Berkeley, California. Adored grandmother of Lane, Rachel, Eric, and Elena. Born March 31, 1915 in Toronto, she was pre
 WINTER-Dora. April 30, 1970. Our dear mother, grandmother, great-grandmother-her gentle spirit lives on in her family       
 BENGUALID-Rachel. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member, mother of our Trustee, Henri Bengualid, grandmother of our Trustee, Dr. Victoria Bengualid Goldstein, and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, P
 CARTER-Ruth Weinreb Berenda, Ph.D. On April 28, 2001. Distinguished psychoanalyst and the first woman psychology teacher at City College of New York. She also did psychological diagnostics with delinquent children in the New York Family Court System, and for many years was an Attending Staf
 ELSON-Esther Cohn. 91, a resident of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of Atlanta, Georgia, and Norfolk, Virginia, passed away April 29, 2001. Predeceased by her husband Harry. Loving mother of Ambassador Edward Elliott (Suzanne) Elson of Palm Beach, Florida. Cherished grandmother of Charles M.
 GARVAN-Hope J. On April 26, 2001, at age 86. Loving mother of Patricia Graham-Collier. Services and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Best Friends Animal Sanctuary in Kanab, UT 84741.       
 HALPERN-Rhoda W. On April 29, 2001, at age 90. Beloved mother of Joel Halpern, Margot (David) Youngs and Stephen Halpern. Cherished grandmother of Peter, William, Zachary and Zoe. Devoted sister of Vivian Michelson and Mimi Rieger. Caring sister-in-law of Belle Klusk. Her beauty, intellect 
 KLEIN-Pauline (nee Sandler). Died April 26th at age 86 in Davis, CA. Predeceased by her husband, Alfred Klein. Survived by her children, Elinore, Barry and Jeffrey, and six grandchildren. She will be missed and her brave spirit will be remembered always.       
 LEVY-Rachel Avrut. On April 29, 2001. Devoted teacher, wife, sister, aunt and friend. Beloved by all whose lives she touched. ''Lily,'' your loving, kind ways, and sense of humor will always live in our hearts. Graveside service at Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, LI, Tuesday, May 1, at 1 
 MORGAN-Maureen J. On April 27, 2001, at age 45. Vice President, Chase Manhattan Bank. Beloved wife of Bob. Loving mother of Robert. Dear sister of James and Kathleen. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at S
