 ALTMAN-Henry G., M.D. of Cambridge and Wellfleet, June 26, 2000, Dr. Henry G. Altman, 74. Beloved husband of Dorothy (Silberman). Loving father of Alison Altman of Cambridge, Debby Kilday and her husband, Tom of Watertown and Susan Altman and her husband, Kurt Larson of Albuquerque, NM. Als
 ANDERMAN PERSON LIND-Judith. The world lost a shining light on June 29, 2000. Judy's most joyous activities revolved around giving of herself & helping others. In this way, she was fulfilled. She touched many lives with her kindness, generosity, good humor and lust for life; and nobody coul
 COWEN-Judy A. of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Died June 27, 2000 from complications of ovarian cancer. Devoted wife of the late Harry Angelo, and the late Arthur Cowen, Jr. Loving mother of John M. Angelo and stepmother of Lorie Cowen Levy, Tony Cowen and Jill Cowen. Beloved grand
 HAUSMAN-Lila. We extend our sincerest condolences to Honey Rackman, Faigy Toporovsky and Shaindy Hausman on the passing of their beloved mother. The ''Perle Mesta'' of Crown Heights and a true ''Woman of Valor'', Lila embodied the qualities of elegance, charm and kindness. As a Founder of t
 RUBENFELD-Dr. Phyllis. Beloved daughter of the late Emanuel and Regina, dear sister of Irving (Marilyn) Rubinfeld. She is survived by a niece and nephew and three grand nephews. Services Sunday, July 2, 1PM ''Sinai Chapels'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. In lieu of fl
 SCHANNING-Shirley N. Devoted wife of Frederick K. Schanning, died June 29 at her home in Southbury, CT, formerly of East Chester, NY. Beloved mother of Brian Schanning and Norene D'Onofrio and grandmother of three. Memorial service on Monday, July 3 at 4 P.M. at Carpino Funeral Home, Southb
 ALTMAN-Henry G., M.D. of Cambridge and Wellfleet, June 26, 2000, Dr. Henry G. Altman, 74. Beloved husband of Dorothy (Silberman). Loving father of Alison Altman of Cambridge, Debby Kilday and her husband, Tom of Watertown and Susan Altman and her husband, Kurt Larson of Albuquerque, NM. Als
 COWEN-Judy A. of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Died June 27, 2000 from complications of ovarian cancer. Devoted wife of the late Harry Angelo, and the late Arthur Cowen, Jr. Loving mother of John M. Angelo and stepmother of Lorie Cowen Levy, Tony Cowen and Jill Cowen. Beloved grand
 GERSHENSON - Rebecca. Died June 30, 2000, from Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma. Daughter of Hillel H. and Celia W. Gershenson. Sister of Simma and Anne, and sister-in-law of Paul and loving aunt of Eleanor. She was a graduate of South High School in Minneapolis and Columbia College, and a graduate st
 LIND-Judith (Anderman Person). The world lost a shining light on June 29, 2000. Judy's most joyous activities revolved around giving of herself & helping others. In this way, she was fulfilled. She touched many lives with her kindness, generosity, good humor and lust for life; and nobody co
 MANEALOFF-Molly Rosen. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound regret the passing of a dear friend, who generously supported medical research and education programs at our institution. Mrs. Manealoff and her family established a professorial chair in 
 ROBERTS-Doris Lewis. On June 24, 2000. Age 80. Beloved wife for 57 years of Wayne. Devoted mother of Jim and Laurie and motherin-law of Pat. Adoring grandmother of Alexandra and Rosie. Dear sister of Leah and Goldie. Doris was an outstanding organizer, fundraiser and adminstrator: a Distric
 BOYLE-Catherine J. 86, of Branford Court, Farmington Woods, Avon, CT., died Saturday, July 1, 2000 at home. Born in New York City, NY, daughter of the late James and Margaret (Fox) Boyle. Prior to retiring, she was an accountant with Madigan-Hyland Co. She is survived by two nieces, Deirdre
 BUNIN-Charlotte. Died June 30, in Woodstock, New York, at the age of 77. Loving mother of Reada, Erica, and David (Rachel). Sister of Marvin (Sukey). Adoring and adored grandmother of Alex, Jennifer, Emily, Michael, Damian and Jenna. Beloved friend of too many to name. Her vitality and zest
 COPLEY-Stella Yang. Died on June 25, 2000, in NYC. She was 69, and a resident of Washington, CT. She had been ill with pancreatic cancer. She was a graduate of Vassar College and the author of the semi-autobiographical novel ''Crossings'', which she wrote using her Chinese given name, Chuan
 HYMAN-Joyce. On July 2, 2000, at age 74. Devoted wife of Dr. George Hyman and beloved wife of the late Robert Rubin. Cherished mother of Ginger Feuer and her husband Mike. Loving grandmother of Matthew Feuer and his wife Nicole, and adoring greatgrandmother of the love of her life Adam Robe
 LIPETZ-Sonia. Beloved wife of the late Senia. Aunt, cousin, sisterin-law and friend. Sonia will always be loved for her joie de vivre, warmth, generosity and kindness, especially given the suffering she faced early in life. Service 1 PM, July 5, 2000, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Ams
 LORITO-Sophie. Of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved and loving mother to Elaine and Sydney Levy, and Iris and Sandy Berger; grandmother to Howard and Riva Levy, Debra Levy, David Levy and Beth Von Ancken, and Heather Berger; great-grandmother to Lior, Mia, Noa and Aliya; sister to Beverly Freierman. 
 PEASE-Robert William. Age 77, died June 30, 2000, in Lebanon, NH. Born June 3, 1923, in Cleveland, OH, son of Frederick and Fanny (Meserve) Pease. Survived by a son Robert William Pease Jr., Ridgewood, NJ, a daughter Martha Pease Bardin, her husband Christian A., and two grandsons, all of M
 COWEN-Judy Angelo. The former partners of Cowen & Company regret the passing of Judy Angelo Cowen, wife of our late senior managing partner, Arthur Cowen, Jr. She was a very special person to us all and we regret her passing and will miss her. Our sincerest condolences to her family.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Magda, 80, of Great Neck, died July 4, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Louis, cherished mother of Susan Goldstein (Joseph Crucilla) and Julie (Charles) Ellis, sweet grandmother of Sarah Crucilla and Jonathan Ellis, adored aunt of many nieces and nephews. A survivor of the Holocaust
 HYMAN-Joyce. On July 2, 2000, at age 74. Devoted wife of Dr. George Hyman and beloved wife of the late Robert Rubin. Cherished mother of Ginger Feuer and her husband Mike. Loving grandmother of Matthew Feuer and his wife Nicole, and adoring greatgrandmother of the love of her life Adam Robe
 LOWERY-M. Margaret. Of Pebble Beach and Rancho Mirage, CA died on Thursday, June 29, 2000 after a long illness. Survived by her daughter, Cynthia L. Wilcox, her brother, Donald C. McGill, sisterin-law, Sara McGill, her sister, Jean Mumm, two grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. A memo
 MALLIS-Vera. Loving wife of Maxwell, mother of Stephanie, Fern and Joanne, grandmother of Brooke, Victoria and Alexandra. Also sister, aunt, sister-in-law, and great friend of many. She is now somewhere wonderful with a garden hose in her hand, washing down the street and spraying everyone 
 TUNICK-Mildred S. At the age of 91. A graduate of Hunter College and holder of graduate degrees from New York University and the Sorbonne, she taught art at Hunter High School for 15 years. Wife of the late H. Sol Tunick, she is survived by her son Jonathan and his wife Leigh, her daughter 
 WALDRON-Carolyn, died July 1, 2000. The Urban Justice Center notes with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our dear friend and colleague, Carolyn Waldron, a loving, compassionate, kind and generous person. We will deeply miss her.       
 FRIEDLANDER - Anne died peacefully early July 4th at 91. That night's bright celebration of holiday barely matched the inspiring spirit and loving warmth of the beloved mother of Marilyn Stewart and grandmother of Naelyn Wilson & Michael Friedlander. Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 E 79 St, Fri,
 GENOVESE-Viola T. On July 5 of Douglaston, NY. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Dear mother of Marie Gross, Leonard, and the late Joseph Jr. Also survived by 14 grandchildren and 40 great grandchildren. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset on Thursday & F
 HELLMAN-Martha D. Age 78. The Hellman family mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Martha D. Hellman, beloved wife of the late Dr. Morton J. Hellman. Martha succumbed on July 5, 2000 after a long illness. She is survived by her lifelong friend and cherished companion, Bernard Rothenberg, s
 HENICK-Rebecca. Beloved wife of the late Max. Much loved mother of Beatrice Kurzner, Myrna Jacobs-Rubin, Marilyn Shimkowitz. Loved and adored by seven granddaughters and one grandson, fourteen great-grandchildren, three sons-in-law, Dr. L. Robert Rubin, Seymour Shimkowitz and the late Sidne
 KYPRIOS-Anna A. (nee Stamatiou) of Chatham on July 3, 2000. Wife of the late Anthony Kyprios. Mother of James A. of New York, NY, and Emanuel A. of London. Grandmother of Seraphina Kyprios, two step granddaughters, and one step great granddaughter. Sister of Maria Geronicholas of Rhodes, Gr
 LOWERY-M. Margaret. Of Pebble Beach and Rancho Mirage, CA died on Thursday, June 29, 2000 after a long illness. Survived by her daughter, Cynthia L. Wilcox, her brother, Donald C. McGill, sisterin-law, Sara McGill, her sister, Jean Mumm, two grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. A memo
 LUFTMAN-Leonore. The Board of Directors and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans Inc. (NYANA) mourn the passing of Leonore Luftman, esteemed member of the NYANA Board from 1967 to 1988. We extend our sincere condolences to her family. Michael Loeb, President Mark Handelman, E
 MALLIS-Vera. Loving wife of Maxwell, mother of Stephanie, Fern and Joanne, grandmother of Brooke, Victoria and Alexandra. Also sister, aunt, sister-in-law, and great friend of many. She is now somewhere wonderful with a garden hose in her hand, washing down the street and spraying everyone 
 MILLER-Frances A. (nee Pernot). On July 3, 2000 at her home in Bronx, NY, age 87. Cherished wife of the late Eugene J. Miller. Beloved mother of Aline T., Eugene J., and Robert A. Miller, Patricia A. Curtis and Joan M. Vertigan. Loving grandmother of seven and great grandmother of four. She
 RYALS-Juanita Opal Bettes. Died July 3 in Oklahoma City. Born in Texas, 1910, to Ellen and William Andrew Bettes. Graduate, Lexington (OK) High School, 1928; Hill's Business College, Okla. City; and was a legal secretary. Married Marlin D. Ryals (d. 1990) in 1936; became a homemaker. Childr
 SAX-John. The members and staff of The Falls Country Club in Lake Worth, Florida, wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member, Belle Sax and family, on the passing of her beloved husband, John. Board of Governors Kenneth Mahler, President       
 BARRY-Gertrude McGroarty, 93, wife of the late Hugh J. Barry, died Wednesday, July 5, 2000. A retired Brooklyn school teacher, survived by her children, Hugh Barry, Ursula Erit, Madeline Mullane, Agnes Barry, Arlene Murphy and Gertrude Hooker, brothers Charles and Thomas McGroarty, 14 grand
 GENOVESE-Viola T. On July 5 of Douglaston, NY. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Dear mother of Marie Gross, Leonard, and the late Joseph Jr. Also survived by 14 grandchildren and 40 great grandchildren. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset on Thursday & F
 GINS-Evelyn Friedman. A gifted teacher who inspired thousands of students at Hunter College and NYU. Co-author of the text ''Reading for Mastery and Enrichment''. Adored wife of the late Milton Gins. Beloved mother of Madeline and Stephen. Loving sister of Kate Goldstein. Cherished mother-i
 GOLDBERG-Sylvia Herzog, 88. Died on July 5, 2000. She lost her beloved Moe, her husband of fiftynine years, in 1996. Devoted mother to Ethel and Larry Prospect, Leila and Bob Strassler. Dear sister of Pauline Kassier. Cherished grandmother to Michael and Melanie Prospect, Steven Echtman, Te
 GUNDERSEN - Harriet Adams. Died on July 1, 2000, at the age of 97 in Hanover, New Hampshire. Widow of Sven M. Gundersen, M.D., a renowned diagnostician and much loved doctor at Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital in Hanover, who died two years ago. She is the daughter of Professor John Chester
 HOFFMAN-Ruth. July 6, peacefully after a long, happy life. Devoted wife of the late Joseph. She leaves Richard, Perla and granddaughter Alegre Hoffman, Frances and William Swirsky, grandsons Peter Genzer, wife Sheri and great granddaughters Rachel and Rebecca, and Douglas Genzer and wife Ka
 KANDEL-Frances Wender, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, second mother to several and cherished friend to many, passed away July 4 at the age of 67. Survived by her husband Al, daughters Wendy, Adrienne and Susan, grandchildren Anais, Felix, Max and Benjamin, sister Abigail Moss. Fran stan
 MARTIN-Dr. Josephine D. Died July 6, 2000, after a long courageous battle, stoic and still giving in her loving way. Her husband Robert Schwartz is deeply grieved and her loss is felt by her nephews Michael and Charles Diaz, and their children, Robert's daughterin-law Dr. Gail Ross, and his
 SCOTT-Jane. July 5, 2000. Beloved wife of Steve Dembo. Loving daughter of Andrew and Lillian Costarino. Devoted sister of Drew, Sissy and Suellen. Beloved aunt of Brian, James, Julianne, Jamie Rose and Adam. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday a
 Ann Roe Robbins, a teacher of cooking who, along with James A. Beard and other food writers, helped to convince Americans of the 1960's that cooking could be an art form, died June 25 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. In 1960, Craig Claiborne, the New York Times food critic, hea
 BEDELL-Sylvia. Wife of the late Herbert R. Bedell died Thursday, July 6, 2000. Mother of Eileen Kraus and Mitchell Bedell; Sister of Shirley Brown and the late Martin Rubin; Sister-in-law to Joseph Brown. Mother-in-law to Michelle Bedell and Elliott Kraus. Grandmother to Lisa Kraus-Goldenbe
 EDELMAN-Irving, on July 6th, 2000 at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Hannah. Loving father of Myrna Wagman and her husband, Leonard, and Marilyn Varsa and her husband, George. Adored grandfather of Andrew, Stacey and Craig, and great-grandfather of Lindsay, Rachel, Alexander and Jordan.
 KAZANOFF-Lillian. Died on July 7, peacefully in her 91st year. Widow of Sam, who died 29 years ago. Founding member of Temple Shalom, Glen Oaks. She is survived by her children, Regina Porter and Alan, her loving grandchildren, Peter, Loren and Samantha Porter. Services Sunday, 1 PM, at Sch
 THOMPSON-Julia Acheson, 84, a long-time New York City resident and recently living in Killingworth, CT. died Monday, July 3 with her family by her side. Born in Raymond, Washington, daughter of the late Barclay and Louise Acheson, she was the niece of the late Lila and DeWitt Wallace, found
 Barbara T. Christian, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California at Berkeley and a pioneer of contemporary American literary feminism, died on June 25 at her home in Berkeley. She was 56. The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Patricia McBroo
 EDELMAN-Irving, on July 6th, 2000 at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Hannah. Loving father of Myrna Wagman and her husband, Leonard, and Marilyn Varsa and her husband, George. Adored grandfather of Andrew, Stacey and Craig, and great-grandfather of Lindsay, Rachel, Alexander and Jordan.
 FELDGARDEN-Benjamin. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Benjamin Feldgarden, beloved father of Diane Goldsmith, a dear friend of the Jewish community. Mrs. Goldsmith and her husband, Jay, a distinguished member of our B
 GALVIN-Helen C. (nee Cuddihy). Of Katonah, NY (formerly of Northport, NY), on July 7, 2000, in her 83rd year. Beloved wife of the late Paul M. Galvin and the late Frank H. Egidi. Loving mother of Catherine E. Bennett, Austin E., Francesca E. and Mary Clare Glavin. Grandmother of five. Dear 
 GOLDBERG-Sylvia Herzog, 88. Died on July 5, 2000. She lost her beloved Moe, her husband of fiftynine years, in 1996. Devoted mother to Ethel and Larry Prospect, Leila and Bob Strassler. Dear sister of Pauline Kassier. Cherished grandmother to Michael and Melanie Prospect, Steven Echtman, Te
 JUNGMANN-Gert. Died June 21, at 91 in Rangeley, Maine. The widow of Martin Jungmann, M.D. of Vienna, Austria and New York, she advanced his innovative concept of the Levitor, an orthotic device to treat chronic back and muscular disorders, helping to establish fifty Levitor centers worldwid
 KAZANOFF-Lillian. Died on July 7, peacefully in her 91st year. Widow of Sam, who died 29 years ago. Founding member of Temple Shalom, Glen Oaks. She is survived by her children, Regina Porter and Alan, her loving grandchildren, Peter, Loren and Samantha Porter. Services Sunday, 1 PM, at Sch
 MILLER-Claire Strauss, of Chappaqua, NY, died on June 22, after a short illness at the age of 85. Born in Atlanta, GA., daughter of Oscar Richard Strauss and Rubye Rich Strauss, she graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in 1936 and received an MA in Dance Education from Columbia Teachers Co
 PERKINS-Sheila R. Of Milton, Massachusetts, June 23. Sheila Redmond Perkins, widow of Malcolm D. Perkins, mother of Malcolm Jr. of Seattle, Sara of New York, Samuel of Milton, and William of Baltimore. Sister of Sylvie Griffiths, Cynthia Mead, and the late Joan Read. She is also survived by
 SILBERMAN-Rhoda Truax. Born in New York City on October 28, 1901, died June 29, 2000 in Colorado Springs, where she had lived since 1992. Prior to moving to Colorado she was a resident of Cambridge, MA for many decades. She was a graduate of the Horace Mann School and Barnard College in NY.
 THOMPSON-Julia Acheson, 84, a long-time New York City resident and recently living in Killingworth, CT. died Monday, July 3 with her family by her side. Born in Raymond, Washington, daughter of the late Barclay and Louise Acheson, she was the niece of the late Lila and DeWitt Wallace, found
 WATERBURY-Barbara. On July 6, 2000 of Pelham, NY. Wife of the late Donald C. Waterbury, mother of Meighan Waterbury Corbett, grandmother of Elizabeth and Colin. Visiting hours at Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Ave, Pelham, NY on Sunday 5-8PM on Monday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Mass Our Lady Of Perpet
 SHEPPS-HOWARD 9 JULY 1992 8 YEARS HAVE PASSED, WE MISS YOU, WE LOVE YOU, WISH YOU WERE HER       
 Virginia Moffat Nickerson, a leader in many philanthropic and cultural organizations in New York, died June 18 at her home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in New York City and Cold Spring Harbor. In 1997, Mrs. Nickerson was honored by the mayor of New York for her w
 CHANG-Pei Chen Liu. 82, on July 8, 2000, at home in the Bronx. Widow of Tsuan-nien Chang. She was the loving mother of Josephine Yeh, Linda Tu & Stephen Chang, and beloved grandmother of Su Ming & Lee Ming Yeh, Jeni & Kaii Tu, Nathan & Vera Chang. She was the main support and photographer o
 KELSON-Dr. Florence. Of East Hampton, NY, on July 9. A psychologist and educator, beloved daughter of the late Samuel and Nina, sister of Jan Messinger and the late Beatrice Belicove and Sally Granit. She is mourned by her loving nieces and nephews and a multitude of dear friends and collea
 SINGER-Shirley. Of New York City, on July 9, 2000. Beloved wife of Stanley. Loving mother of Cathy Singer Ettinger and Richard Singer and his wife Patricia Mendell Singer. Devoted grandmother of Robert and Jeffrey Ettinger and David and Michael Singer. Services on Tuesday, July 11, 11:30 AM
 VLOCK-Laurel Fox. 1926-2000. Wife of Jay I. Vlock; daughter of Rose Greenberg and the late John J. Fox; mother of Daniel and Joyce, Michael and Karen, Sandra and Glenn; grandmother to Jonathan, Elizabeth, and Andrew Vlock, Allison and Dana Schwartz, Julia and Theodore Vlock, and Adam and Mi
 WATERBURY-Barbara. On July 6, 2000 of Pelham, NY. Wife of the late Donald C. Waterbury, mother of Meighan Waterbury Corbett, grandmother of Elizabeth and Colin. Visiting hours at Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Ave, Pelham, NY on Sunday 5-8PM on Monday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Mass Our Lady Of Perpet
 WULWICK-Ronne Wohl. Widow of the late Joseph S. Wohl and wife of Sam Wulwick. We mourn the passing of our beloved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother and sister. Mama Ronne you were our angel on earth and will forever be our angel in heaven. You will always live in our hearts. We
 CARPENTER - Patricia, passed away July 8, 2000 at her home in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. She was 77 years old. Patricia was born on January 21, 1923 to Daniel and Dorothy Carpenter in Del Rosa, CA. Student Composition and Theory with Arnold Schoenberg, 1942-1949; Student Piano with Ethel Legins
 FORSTER-Carrie (Caroline) Nee Greenwald. Of North Bergen, N.J. on July 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late William; Devoted mother of Helen and Ann Forster, both of New York City. Known for her great beauty, sharp mind and quick wit, she will be dearly missed. Services MT Moriah Cemetery, Fa
 FOSTER-Helen F. Died peacefully after a brief illness. Beloved wife and mother of the late Malcolm and Barbara. Devoted mother to her son Malcolm Foster, Jr. (Mike). Wonderful sister and mother-in-law and adoring matriarch of extended family and friends. Funeral private, and memorial celebr
 LEVINE-Irene Hirsch (nee Kosakofsky). On July 9 in her 102nd year. Adored by daughters Eleanor Goldner and the late Beverly Landau, son-in-law Jerome Goldner, six grandchildren and thirteen great-grandchildren.       
 SINGER-Shirley. In loving memory of Shirley Singer, a woman of great style, beauty and humor. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Stanley, her son and daughter-in-law Richard and Patty, her daughter, Cathy, and her grandsons David, Michael, Robert and Jeffrey. The Hirschen Family SINGER-Shi
 SOMMERS-Bonnie Alden. Adored wife and best friend to Jim, incomparable mother and inspiration to Allison and Roger, of cancer on July 9, 2000. Her warmth and vitality will be sorely missed by her family, her cherished friends, and the colleagues of a life-long career in film, TV and the Bro
 TOFFLER-Karen. Died prematurely at age 46, July 9, 2000, in Los Angeles leaving many, many friends and a legacy of love, admiration, grief and laughter. She touched the hearts of people of all races, classes and cultures. She is survived by her parents, Heidi and Alvin Toffler. Donations ma
 WOLLMAN-Sigrun. Passed away July 4, at age 70. Surviving are her husband, Dr. William A. Wollman, a son, William V., two daughters, Winifred A., Mrs. Diana W. Mintz, a brother, Dr. Volker Arendt and six grandchildren.       
 WULWICK-Ronne Wohl. Eleven years as a son-in-law, over 30 years as a friend , knowing you was a joy and I'll treasure the memories. We shall miss you. Love, Norman Brickell, Marilyn Shapiro WULWICK-Ronne Wohl. We will deeply miss our dear and beautiful friend Ronne, who was the most charmin
 BERNKLAU-Dorothy Riss. In 1991 (29 Tammuz 5751). Beloved Mother, remembered fondly by her children, David & Renee, and sixyear-old granddaughter Danielle.       
 Grace M. S. McKittrick MacNeil, a civic worker and philanthropist who was the national president of Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. from 1969 to 1972, died on June 30 in Natchez, Miss. She was 92, lived in Natchez and had also lived in Princeton, N.J. Mrs. MacNeil was a longtime owner and
 Laurel Fox Vlock, who was instrumental in the videotaping and archiving of many survivors' accounts of the sufferings caused by the Holocaust, died on Saturday in New Haven, Conn. She was 74 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. She died of injuries suffered in a car accident on Friday, sa
 DAVIS-Mrs. Elvera, a/a ''Baby Sanchez''/d. New York Committee to Celebrate National Tap Dance Day mourns September 2 passing of its Advisory Committee member. Mother of Sammy Davis, Jr., strong supporter of our efforts for more public appreciation of the tap dance skill, Mrs. Davis was our 
 McHARRIE-Margaret. Of Blackpool, England. Your birthday today. Greatly missed and always loved and remembered by her family on both sides of the Atlantic. Husband Dennis, her children Judy and Jane, and grandchildren Julia, Alex, Meggie, Jessica and Marcos and Feroze       
 BROWNSTEIN-Vivian, former Chief Economist of Fortune magazine, died on Monday at the age of 69. Vivian Brownstein worked at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, D.C., served on the Commission on Money and Credit, and ended her career as Chief Economist at Fortune magazine, where her col
 FOSTER-Helen. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Helen Foster. We extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family. James M. Dubin, President Martin Lowy, Secretary       
 GONDELMAN-Madeline. On July 11, 2000 at the age of 95. Beloved wife of the late Albert, loving mother of Joan Katz and the late Martin Delman, cherished grandmother of David and Nancy Katz, Ronald and Cynthia Katz, Susan & Lee Schulman, Peter and Barbara Delman, and Nina and Jonathan Mattan
 LITT-Mary S. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Mary Litt. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 SOLOMON-Mimi. Died on July 12, 2000 in Suffern, NY. She is survived by her daughters, Elaine D. Solomon and Marjorie B. Bernstein, and her grandchildren Erica and Jason. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, July 13, 2000, 12 noon at the Hellman Memorial Chapel, 15 State Street, Spring
 Ronne Wohl Wulwick, a founder of Hineni, an outreach group that encourages young Jews to reconnect to their heritage, died last Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 85. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Wulwick, a Bronx native who also lived in Palm B
 FRISHBERG - Diane S. (nee Sachs). On July 13th. Beloved wife of the late Bernard H. Devoted mother of Karen & Marc Gutenplan, Neal and Faith Frishberg. Adored grandmother of Gabriele & Marley. Survived by her loving mother Sarah Sachs. Devoted sister of Beverley Silpe and Marjorie Winick. H
 GLADSTONE-Madge. Formerly of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died peacefully on July 11, 2000 in Bloomfield, CT. Daughter of the late Alfred and Florence Willstatter, widow of Dr. Herman Gladstone, beloved mother of Margaret Ann and Dr. Alfred, proud grandmother of Michael, devoted sister of Nancy Gordon a
 KARP-Ida M. The family of Mrs. Ida M. Karp regrets to inform you that Ida quietly passed away on July 5, 2000. She spoke often of her many interests and friends and we are grateful for all the love, sharing and support that her friends, colleagues and family members gave her. She will be mi
 KOPILOW-Doris. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns her loss and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Allen S. Kaplan, Rabbi Alan Hartstein, President       
 LITT-Mary Schweitzer. On July 12, 2000, peacefully at her home in Pleasant Valley, NY, at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Loving mother of Mark D. and Judith Litt of Larchmont, NY, and Susan L. and Roderick McLeod of Toronto, Ontario. Adored grandmother of Lauren Alwan, Steven Lit
 VLOCK-Laurel F. The staff and management of the National Jewish Television Network express profound sorrow at the tragic loss of our longtime colleague and cofounder, Laurel F. Vlock. For more than 15 years Laurel graced our airways with wit and charm, using her extraordinary skills to inte
 Rose Marie Thomas, the head of the fund-raising organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, which was founded by her husband, the comedian Danny Thomas, died on Wednesday. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mrs. Thomas had held the fund-raising posi
 ALBERT-Roslind. Peacefully, Friday, July 14. Cherished mother of Adrienne Albert Brecher, grandmother of Matthew, loving sister of Dr. Jason Miller. Her extraordinary spirit, humor and warmth will never be forgotten. Services Sunday, July 16, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison at 81 St.
 COXHEAD-Sara Whiting, 64, of Vero Beach, FL., died July 4, 2000. Her husband, Peter; three sons, Peter Jr., Stephen and Michael; and two grandchildren survive her. Donations to be made to the Sara W. Coxhead Brain Tumor General Research Fund, Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center, DUMC 3828, Dur
 LEDERMAN-Marie Black. Wife of the late William B. Lederman. Died on July 13, 2000 in Kingston, Ontario Canada. She was a registered nurse who worked in hospitals in Kingston and New York. A resident of Valley Stream for 30 years. She was a member of the Catholic Daughters of America. Surviv
 LITT-Mary Schweitzer. On July 12, 2000, peacefully at her home in Pleasant Valley, NY, at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Loving mother of Mark D. and Judith Litt of Larchmont, NY, and Susan L. and Roderick McLeod of Toronto, Ontario. Adored grandmother of Lauren Alwan, Steven Lit
 ALBERT-Roslind. Peacefully, Friday, July 14. Cherished mother of Adrienne Albert Brecher, grandmother of Matthew, loving sister of Dr. Jason Miller. Her extraordinary spirit, humor and warmth will never be forgotten. Services Sunday, July 16, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison at 81 St.
 BECKER-Adele Edelman. On July 14, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Milton Edelman and of the late Edward Becker. Cherished mother of Jim and Bob Edelman; dear mother-in-law of Diane and Carol Edelman; adored grandmother of Michael, Sara and Alexandra Edelman. Her dynamic presence and youthful
 BLACKSTON-Jessie. On May 2, 2000. Beloved mother of Richard Blackston of New York City and Evelyn Smith of Memphis, TN. She worked in the NYC Board of Education System. She was Chairperson of Local No. 372 Union, For School Health Aides and was an Executive Board Member. She was Chairperson
 DAVIDSON-Myrna. She was a cherished friend, a wonderful bookkeeper. Her presence will be sorely missed. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Linda and Paul Ehrlich, and the staff of Premier Skirting       
 JOSEPH-Mavis Ione. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Mavis Ione Joseph, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved 
 KAUFMANN-Evelyn L. A resident of Rancho Mirage, CA, for over 20 years, died on July 8, 2000. Born in New York City, on October 21, 1910, she was a graduate of The Dalton School, and a Member of Sunningdale Country Club. In the years since the death of her husband, Fred W. Kaufmann, Jr., a P
 LITT-Mary Schweitzer. On July 12, 2000, peacefully at her home in Pleasant Valley, NY, at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Loving mother of Mark D. and Judith Litt of Larchmont, NY, and Susan L. and Roderick McLeod of Toronto, Ontario. Adored grandmother of Lauren Alwan, Steven Lit
 MacKENZIE-Phoebe Connor. Of Santa Barbara, CA. On June 30, 2000 in Alexandria, VA after a brief illness. Beloved mother of Phoebe Elizabeth (Pemy), Gair, Jim, Donald and Scott, who survive her. Also survived by brother Hayden Connor, seven grandchildren and two step grandchildren. A 1956 gr
 WALIT-Harriet. The Institute for Community Living was fortunate to have had the loving support and wise counsel of this consummate New Yorker for many years. Harriet Walit, known for her civic-mindedness, compassion and gentle spirit, was our angel of State Street. She and her husband, Leon
 Ursule Molinaro, a novelist and translator, died on Monday at her home in New York City. She was believed to have been in her 80's, said McPherson & Company, her publishers. In a career that spanned five decades, she wrote 14 novels, 4 collections of short fiction and 18 one-act pla
 BERGMANN-Michael D. Longtime resident of Larchmont, NY, died July 12. Ms. Bergmann was a successful real estate entrepreneur and president and owner of Condo Experts in Larchmont. She is survived by her brother Roy, his wife Janie, niece Hillary, nephew Erik, her dear friend Barbara De Mari
 DUNKHORST-Isabel. 82, of Emerson, formerly of New Milford, on July 14, 2000. She graduated from Guilford College, Greensboro, NC, in 1939 with a Bachelor of Science degree. Before retiring in 1989, she was Vice President of the Chase Manhattan Bank, NYC, and worked there for over 30 years. 
 JOSEPH-Mavis Ione (Van). On July 15, 2000. Beloved wife of Stephen H., devoted mother of Janis & John, loving grandmother of Sarah, Michael, Nathan & Joseph. Family will receive friends Monday, 2-5, 7-9 PM, with services Tuesday, July 18, 11 AM, at Bernheim-Apter-Goldsticker Suburban Funera
 KOCHEN-Elizabeth (Beth). Of Mamaroneck, NY, and Montreal, Canada, died suddenly on July 15, 2000. Beloved wife of Joseph and mother of Madeline, Neil, Pamela and Allison, and Bubby of Matthew, Jonathan, Jacob, Leah, Rebecca, Jesse and Arden. Daughter of Ida and the late Jacob Kraminer and s
 REISER-Ruth. Of Kew Garden Hills and Boynton Beach, FL. Loving wife of Dr. Irving Reiser. Mother of Judy Rosell, Ronald Reiser and Arlene Wakeham. She is also survived by three grandchildren and one great-granddaughter, sister Lila Zelin and brother David Gitelson, all of whom love her dear
 SUMPER-Elsie. Of Paramus, on July 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Phyllis Lasky, her husband David, and the late William Sumper. Loving grandmother of Robert Lasky and Jennifer Rabinowitz and great-grandmother of Caitlen and Michael Rabinowitz. Services will be
 TILLOTSON-Robin. On July 15 at the age of 45. Survived by her mother Evelyn E. Tillotson. Resposing at Walter B. Cooke, 117 West 72nd St., NYC, Monday, 5-9 PM. Entombment in Peoria, IL.       
 WASSELL-Ruth Benn, ACSW. 77 years old, on Sunday, July 16. Predeceased by loving husband Myron, survived by daughters Emily (Kuriloff) and Elizabeth, sons-inlaw Daniel and John, grandchildren Allison and Melissa. A gifted psychotherapist and Chief Psychiatric Social Worker at the William Al
 BASHAM-Christie Rinehart. 68, of Washington, D.C. and Friendship, Maine, on Sunday morning, July 16 in her Washington home. Greatly beloved sister of Jonathan Rinehart, aunt of Annabelle and Clem and loved by many devoted friends, she was a distinguished and highly respected contributor to 
 DELANY-Willetta S. Age 93 on July 13, 2000. Beloved wife of her late husband, Judge Hubert T. Delany. Dear and cherished mother of Professor Madelon Delany Stent and Dr. Harry M. Delany. Sister of Ernest Smith of Yonkers, NY. She will be sorely missed by a host of nieces, nephews, grandchil
 ENRIGHT-Erica. Died of cancer at her home in Los Angeles in the early morning of Sunday, July 16. She was 52 years old. Born and raised in New York, Erica studied drama at the University of Miami and the Herbert Berghoff School, appearing off-Broadway, in films and on television. Later turn
 KOCHEN-Beth. We note with sorrow the sudden and untimely passing of Beth Kochen, devoted wife of Joseph Kochen, M.D., Chief of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology. Beth Kochen's family was central in her full and active life. She was a dedicted mother, an adoring grandmother, a patient friend to 
 MANES-Geraldine. Of Palm Beach, FL and New York City, died Sunday, July 16. Loving wife of Jules Manes, who predeceased her. Beloved mother of Jill Rosen and Jack Manes. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Leah, Ross, Evan, James, and Deena. Great grandmother to Jena and Max, and sister to Irma, M
 RAYMOND-Kathleen E., on July 14. Will be missed by her daughter, Valerie, son-in-law, John Falxa, granddaughter, Nancy, and countless piano students. Memorial service Sunday, August 27, 1 PM, 234 Dalmeny Rd., Briarcliff Manor.       
 SPECTOR-Ruth. Those of us who were privileged enough to have Ruth Spector touch our lives were blessed. She taught us through example what it meant to be an exemplary human being. No one was a better wife to Walter, mother to Alice and Susan, a devoted daughter to Benjamin and Gussie, a won
 WORTH-Wendy, Ph.D. The staff of The VanItallie Center for Nutrition and Weight Management and the entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledge with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague and beloved therapist, Wendy Worth, Ph.D. Her dedication to her patients was un
 GREIG-Thea Dispeker. Born September 28, 1902 in Munich, Germany. Died on July 17,2000 after a long illness, at the age of almost 98, in her home in Manhattan. She grew up in a family of prominent lawyers, but soon music became the center of her personal and professional life. After her elev
 QUITKIN-Marlene E. Died in New York City, NY, July 15, 2000. Marlene Elizabeth Quitkin, of Woodside, Queens, NY, daughter of Elizabeth (Barker) Quitkin of Nashua, NH and Dr. Frederic M. Quitkin of New York City. She lived life her way. Visiting hours: Davis Funeral Home, 1 Lock Street, Nash
 SALMON-Rajean, of Southold NY on July 16. Former Director of Education for Donahue Sales Co. She is survived by nephews Peter Allen, Pleasantville, NY and Donald Allen, Vancouver, BC. Friends may gather on July 21, from 4-6 at her home, 2555 Yongs Avenue #       
 SINGER-Anne. On July 17, 2000. Age 88. She had music in her fabric, the love of life in her soul. Beloved wife of the late Henry H. Loving mother of Shelly Strickler and Joan Rothenberg. Cherished grandmother of Karyn Anastasio, Marcy Dill, Sari Breuer and Jenny Rothenberg. Great grandmothe
 Sally Kovalchick, editor in chief of Workman Publishing Company, who supervised the publication of some notable best-selling books, died on Saturday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 61. The cause apparently was a heart attack, a company statement said. Ms. Kovalchick
 Thea Dispeker, a molder of operatic talent from Lauritz Melchior to Richard Leech and boss of her own classical music artists agency for more than 50 years, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 97. Laurence Wasserman, her successor at the New York-based management agency th
 Alice Lord Landon, a pioneer in women's swimming and diving who was a presence on the American Olympic scene for eight decades, died last Thursday at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 98. At age 13, Alice Lord swam nine miles across Long Island Sound. At 18, she was a platform 
 DISPEKER-Thea. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center note with great sadness the passing of Thea Dispeker, one of the most distinguished vocal artist managers of the twentieth century. A friend of the Chamber Music Society since its incepti
 JAMES-Debra. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn loss of our beloved friend and valued colleague, Debra James. Debra served this University with dedication and distinction for 25 years, most recently as a Senior Vice President. She helped create and guide some of its most important
 RUBIEN-John Marshall. On July 18, 2000. Dear father of David and Andrew Rubien and step-father of Andi, Peter and Samantha Billow. Cherished grandfather of Rowan and Tamar. Beloved brother of Roberta Wedeen and brother-inlaw to Richard. Loving uncle to Timothy. ''Golden lads and lasses must
 Christie R. Basham, a former executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' who was one of the first women to work as an executive in television network news, died on Sunday at her home in Washington, D.C. She was 68. The cause was brain cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mrs.
 HELLER-Helen (Brown). Born August 19, 1909 in Brooklyn, NY. Died July 19, 2000 peacefully at her Florida home. Beloved wife of the late Irving. She was affiliated with Hadassah and the Lighthouse For the Blind. Survived by dearest sister, Evelyn Heimbinder and ten loving nieces and nephews.
 JACOBS-Grace (Madan) on July 20. Dearly beloved wife of Robert H. Jacobs for 57-1/2 years. Wonderful mother and grandmother of ''The Fabulous 14''-our three children and their spouses, Kenneth Jacobs and his wife Dian, Nancy Martin and her husband George, William Jacobs and his wife Dawn an
 JAMES-Debra. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn loss of our beloved friend and valued colleague, Debra James. Debra served this University with dedication and distinction for 25 years, most recently as a Senior Vice President. She helped create and guide some of its most important
 McDOUGAL-Phyllis M. of Garden City, NY on July 20, 2000 at the age of 73. Survived by her husband, Walter A. McDougal; her daughters, Mary O'Connor of San Rafael, CA, Eileen O'Connor of West Hempstead, Julia Kelly of Manhattan, Moira Murtagh of Hicksville, NY; sons William O'Connor Jr., of 
 STODDARD - Gabriella (Gay) Clark. Of New York City and Sharon, Connecticut. On July 19, after a valiant battle with breast cancer. Beloved wife of Jonathan, devoted sister of Virginia (Ginny) and Gordon (Don), loving aunt of Douglas, David & Daniel, step-mother of Kristi, dear and cherished
 WASSELL-Ruth. Loving wife of the late Myron. Survived by daughters Emily Kuriloff and Elizabeth Wassell. Services Friday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Avenue at 76 Street. WASSELL-Ruth B, ACSW. Today, after 50 years, The William Alanson White Institute saddly bids fairwel
 WIEDER-Elayne. On July 20, 2000. Beloved daughter of Beatrice Wieder. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Friday, July 21, 11:30AM. Interment to follow at Maimonides Cemetery, Bklyn, NY. WIEDER-Elayne. You will be greatly missed. Bobbi, Jay 
 ZABARSKY-Joan Rubin. Age 70, of 3 Westomere Terrace, New London, died peacefully at her home on Wednesday. She was born on June 12, 1930 in New London, CT, the daughter of Louis and Sara Rubin. Mrs. Zabarsky graduated from Smith College in Amherst, MA. She later received her masters degree 
 Neuma Goncalves da Silva, a central figure in the slums that served as the testing ground for the composers, seamstresses and fiercely talented layabouts who catapulted samba into an art form, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. She was 78. A poor woman all her life, Ms. Goncalves da 
 CREAN-Kathryn V. ''Kay,'' a retired lawyer and executive who served in the Marine Corps during World War II, died June 22, 2000 in Annapolis, Maryland. Ms. Crean was born in New York and graduated from Barnard College in 1941. She served as a first lieutenant in the Marines. Ms. Crean gradu
 DELANO-Thalia Holmes, 78, native of Cleveland, Ohio, died July 18, 2000, in Jacksonville, Florida following a brief illness. Mrs. Delano is survived by her husband, Frederic Adrian Delano II, two daughters, Daphne Broun and Diana Gardner; two grandchildren, Dawn Broun and Rod Gardner; and o
 DISPEKER-Thea. The family of Richard Tucker and The Richard Tucker Music Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend Thea Dispeker. As an artist's manager, she nurtured some of our finest talents and as our friend, she was warm, always in good humor, and above all, faithful. She will be gr
 EGOLF-Suzanne (nee Bragg). 61, of Tucson, AZ. Died on July 14, 2000 of an accidental drowning. Born and raised in Harrison, New York, graduated Harrison High School 1956, Northwestern University 1960. Survived by husband James Egolf, daughter Lisa Kraas, son Kevin Kraas and her brothers, Sp
 GORDON-Miriam (Mimi) nee Acker, 60, passed away peacefully at home with her family at her side on July 20. She is survived by her husband Bruce, children Jon and his wife Danielle of Cleveland and Louis of Seattle, her mother Eva Acker Goldin of New Jersey and sister Terry Youngelson and hu
 JACOBS-Grace (Madan) on July 20. Dearly beloved wife of Robert H. Jacobs for 57-1/2 years. Wonderful mother and grandmother of ''The Fabulous 14''-our three children and their spouses, Kenneth Jacobs and his wife Dian, Nancy Martin and her husband George, William Jacobs and his wife Dawn an
 JAMES-Debra. We will honor her devotion to New York University, her extraordinary generosity of spirit, her pride in our efforts, and her dynamic leadership. Our hearts ache for her family, our colleagues, and ourselves. Debra James' Senior Staff, New York University: Greg Albanis Asya Berg
 RIGGS-Frieda Wildy. 92, died on July 20, 2000 at home in Bronxville, New York. Born on September 8, 1907, in Hemingford, Nebraska, Frieda was the daughter of Calvin and Anna Wildy. She graduated from the University of Colorado at Boulder, and received a master's degree in social work from B
 SCHOEMAN-Ellen Susan. Of Scotch Plains, NJ. Loving wife of Stephen Schoeman. Dear mother of Laurie Jennifer Schoeman of Brooklyn and Amy Lynne Schoeman of Scotch Plains, NJ. Beloved sister of Sandy Epstein of Atlanta, GA and Jack Epstein of Columbia, MD. Relatives and friends are invited to
 Virginia Saurwein, who was the United Nations' top liaison official with nongovernmental organizations from 1975 until 1989, died July 9 in Erie, Pa. She was 71 and lived in South Salem, N.Y. She suffered a heart attack and a stroke in February, according to a former colleague.     
 Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. Dr. Mart
 BLACKSTON-Jessie. On May 2, 2000. Beloved mother of Richard Blackston of New York City and Evelyn Smith of Memphis, TN. She worked in the NYC Board of Education System. She was Chairperson of Local No. 372 Union, For School Health Aides and was an Executive Board Member. She was Chairperson
 ERNSTOFF-Marian Schechtman. Adored wife to Sam Ernstoff; Devoted Mother to Susie, Jeffrey and Nessa. Beloved relative and friend; Sisterhood President of Temple B'nai Israel, Midwood; Teacher in Belle Harbor, NY and CT; President of CT Club, Century Village, Boca Raton. She endures in all t
 GORDON-Miriam (Mimi) nee Acker, 60, passed away peacefully at home with her family at her side on July 20. She is survived by her husband Bruce, children Jon and his wife Danielle of Cleveland and Louis of Seattle, her mother Eva Acker Goldin of New Jersey and sister Terry Youngelson and hu
 JACOBS-Grace (Madan) on July 20. Dearly beloved wife of Robert H. Jacobs for 57-1/2 years. Wonderful mother and grandmother of ''The Fabulous 14''-our three children and their spouses, Kenneth Jacobs and his wife Dian, Nancy Martin and her husband George, William Jacobs and his wife Dawn an
 LaPORTE - Margery Coleman. Died on Wednesday of heart failure at her nursing home in Illinois. She was the wife of the late Walter LaPorte; mother of Stephen, David and Tom LaPorte, Marjorie Brillhart and Ann Colton; grandmother of six grandchildren, and sister of Patricia Gehron and Joan C
 LIPPE-Vera. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Suzanne Siegler and her husband Robert. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Ethan and Rebecca. Loving sister of Pearl Knittle and her husband Norman. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, 
 MANES-Geraldine. Of Palm Beach, FL and New York City, died Sunday, July 16. Loving wife of Jules Manes, who predeceased her. Beloved mother of Jill Rosen and Jack Manes and their spouses, Robert and Leslie. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Ross, Evan, James, Dina, Leah and spouse Michael Finkel
 PERERA-Anna Rhoads. Lived in the Riverdale area of the west Bronx and for 36 years was a volunteer at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York City where she also served as President of the Women's Auxiliary and Volunteer Director. She continued her volunteer work in several capacities at her 
 RIGGS-Frieda Wildy. 92, died on July 20, 2000 at home in Bronxville, New York. Born on September 8, 1907, in Hemingford, Nebraska, Frieda was the daughter of Calvin and Anna Wildy. She graduated from the University of Colorado at Boulder, and received a master's degree in social work from B
 STODDARD - Gabriella (Gay) Clark. Of New York City and Sharon, Connecticut. On July 19, after a valiant battle with breast cancer. Beloved wife of Jonathan, devoted sister of Virginia (Ginny) and Gordon (Don), loving aunt of Douglas, David & Daniel, step-mother of Kristi, dear and cherished
 SWAIN-Jean Adair, 76, of Manhatan, N.Y. on July 17. Smith College, class of 1945. Cellist, pianist, singer, teacher, composer, arranger. Many enduring friendships formed through her chamber music groups. Beloved sister of Nancy Swain Overton. Dear aunt of Richard and Steven Overton and belo
 WEISSBLUTH-Edith. On July 20th. Devoted wife to Jack. Loving mother of Jill, Andrew, Jay and Joy. Cherished grandmother and sister to Charles. Services 11:30AM today at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, NY. WEISSBLUTH-Edith. To Jill, Andrew, Casey, Randall, Kevin, and Joy,
 Ruth Werner, a colorful and successful Soviet spy whose exploits included radioing invaluable atomic bomb data to Moscow in the middle of World War II, died on July 7 in Berlin. She was 93. In her 20 years as an intelligence operative in China, Poland, Switzerland and England, she h
 ARSEVEN-Susan M. On July 21, 2000, at age 59, from breast cancer. Her optimism, love of people and life, and tireless determination will be with us always. Former Chief Information Officer for Union Camp Corporation and American Cyanamid, she lived in Nyack, NY. She is survived by her husba
 BERELSON-Thelma D. On July 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Ellen and her husband Lawrence Franks and the late Philip. Dear sister of Elca Branman and sister-in-law of Elliot Berelson and his wife Suzanne. Board member of the League for the Hard of Hearing and Pre
 JAMES-Debra. A wonderful colleague and friend who, through her hard work, dedication and thoughtfulness, touched each of us with her many acts of kindness and created a special sense of cameraderie at NYU. It is with the deepest sorrow that we mourn her death. We will miss her warmth, her e
 LIPPE-Vera. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Suzanne Siegler and her husband Robert. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Ethan and Rebecca. Loving sister of Pearl Knittle and her husband Norman. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, 
 MACAULEY - Naomi (Zemlan sky). Of Bloomfield, NJ, formerly of NYC, on July 21, 2000. She was 63 years old. The former editor of Vogue Patterns Magazine, she retired in 1973. Survived by her husband Robert G., three children, David, Robert and Susan Joy Brunetti, a granddaughter, Kira Rebecc
 OKUN-Eleanor. We mourn the loss of our dear, bright, caring friend of 60 years. Heartfelt condolences to her family. Bea & Sam       
 RIGGS-Frieda Wildy. 92, died on July 20, 2000 at home in Bronxville, New York. Born on September 8, 1907, in Hemingford, Nebraska, Frieda was the daughter of Calvin and Anna Wildy. She graduated from the University of Colorado at Boulder, and received a master's degree in social work from B
 SCHUMAN-Rebecca. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its devoted and distinguished member, Aaron Weitz. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 TRAUBE-Mildred. Died on July 21, 2000 at age 90 at her home in NYC. Wife of the late Shepard Traube. Mother of Victoria Traube and Elizabeth Traube. Contributions may be made to the SSDC Foundation for the Mildred and Shepard Traube Fellowship, 1501 Broadway, NY, NY 10036. Services Wednesda
 ARSEVEN-Susan M. On July 21, 2000, at age 59, from breast cancer. Her optimism, love of people and life, and tireless determination will be with us always. Former Chief Information Officer for Union Camp Corporation and American Cyanamid, she lived in Nyack, New York. She is survived by her
 BERELSON-Thelma D. On July 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Ellen and her husband Lawrence Franks and the late Philip. Dear sister of Elca Branman and sister-in-law of Elliot Berelson and his wife Suzanne. Board member of the League for the Hard of Hearing and Pre
 DONAHUE-Alice J. On July 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving sister of Florence White, Ellen Scott and Joseph White. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave at 84 St. Wed
 HERSHKOWITZ-Lastone, on July 22nd, 2000. Devoted wife of Arthur and mother of Frances, died peacefully in her home after a short illness. Service private.       
 JAMES-Debra. A dedicated and inspiring advocate of all at NYU. We will miss our kind and caring friend whose outstanding efforts created a true sense of community and who touched our hearts with her warmth and sincerity. We mourn her loss and extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Admin
 KOTLYAR-Dina. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its beloved member, Alexander Kotlyar. May her entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 KULICK-Margaret ''Peggy'' July 17, 2000. Memorial service Westchester Reform Temple, Scarsdale NY. Tuesday July 25, at 11am. KULICK-Peggy. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and past president of its Sisterhood and extends s
 MAXWELL-Emily, (nee Noyes). Died on July 23, 2000 at home, peacefully after long illness. Wife of William and mother of Kate and Brookie. The date of a memorial celebration of her life will be announced.       
 MILES-Loretta D. (Dalton), 96 years. On July 23, 2000. Former New York City schoolteacher. She is survived by a niece, Sr. Grace E. Butler, RSCJ of The Sacred Heart School, Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Funeral service information: call M. David De Marco Funeral Home, 732-521-0555.       
 SANDFORT - Margaret Nelson. Died July 20, 2000 in Connecticut, born in Springfield, MA. in 1912, daughter of the late Grace and Andrew Nelson. Professionally she was known as Margaret D. Nelson. Having a special interest in textiles, she joined the textile firm of Stroheim & Romann in New Y
 TRAUBE-Mildred. Died on July 21, 2000 at age 90 at her home in NYC. Wife of the late Shepard Traube. Mother of Victoria Traube and Elizabeth Traube. Contributions may be made to the SSDC Foundation for the Mildred and Shepard Traube Fellowship, 1501 Broadway, NY, NY 10036. Services Wednesda
 WILLI-Helen S. On July 24th at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Edward J. Willi. Father of Edward J. Willi Jr. of West Redding, CT., and Marion W. Whittemore of New York City. Grandmother of Denise W. Coffey of Tarrytown, NY, Laurence F. Whittemore III of Greenwich, CT., and Edward B. Whitt
 Emily Maxwell, the wife of the author and New Yorker editor William Maxwell, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was ovarian cancer, her daughter Kate Maxwell said. Mrs. Maxwell published short articles and reminiscences in The New Yorker, and from
 Nija Battle, who brought a swaggering sense of sophistication to the furs she designed for the music world's most tireless clotheshorses, died last Thursday while on a business trip in Montreal. She was 37. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her sister, Saddiya Battle. For
 BEHR-Elaine Oakley. 82. Died on July 23 at her home in East Hampton, New York after a long illness. She was the daughter of R. Lawrence Oakley and Sarah Perot Oakley of Greenwich, CT and East Hampton. She graduated from Rosemary Hall in 1936 and from Sarah Lawrence College in 1938. She is s
 BERELSON-Thelma D. The Board of Directors and Educational Outreach Program Staff of The National Book Foundation extend condolences to Ellen Berelson on the passing of her beloved mother. We cherished our friendship with Thelma, just as we were deeply grateful for the faithful philanthropy 
 DONAHUE-Alice J. On July 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving sister of Florence White, Ellen Scott and Joseph White. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave at 84 St. Wed
 GOODMAN-Ruth Katz Peyser. On Monday, July 24. Beloved wife of the late Monroe Goodman. Loving mother of Michael and Barbara Goodman of Merrick, New York, and Andrew and Nancy Goodman of Bettendorf, IA. Proud grandmother of Mark and Kim Goodman, Andrea and Brian Wasserman, Rachel Goodman and
 LOWY-Florette. Of Maplewood, 82, formerly of Newark and Short Hills, New Jersey, died Tuesday, July 25, 2000; beloved wife of Meyer R. Lowy; devoted mother of Peter Q. Lowy of Bradley Beach, Katherine & Martin Gurvey of Lincolnshire, IL and Susan and Lawrence Lubow of Convent Station, N.J.,
 NEUHAUSER-Jeanette. Beloved wife of the late Marshall; devoted mother of Meryl & Buddy Broad, and Brett and Mickey Neuhauser; dear sister of Nadine and Mel Small; loving grandmother of Marshall, Courtney, Alan and Jordan. Service was held Tuesday in Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing. Donation
 RAUCH-Roxane S. On July 24, 2000. Beloved mother of Janine Rauch Eagle and David Rauch, grandmother of Jaclyn Rae Eagle, sister of Susan Cardon. Accomplished fashion promoter, public relations expert, and journalist. Services today at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Contrib
 RUGGLES-Joan (Raphael), 75 of New York, NY. Survived by her husband Melville J. Ruggles and one son, Anthony A. Tron.       
 STERNFELS-Lilly (nee Bloch). Died peacefully Monday, July 24, 2000 at the age of 91, after a long illness. Graveside service will be held at Beth El Cemetery, New Jersey, Wednesday, July 26th, 11AM. Beloved wife of the late Benno Sternfels and beloved sister of the late Alfred Bloch. Loved 
 TRAGER-Marian E. She will be missed by her son, Robert Trager, and her sister, Alice Hudson. Memorial services will be held at Rutgers Church on the Upper West Side she loved, 236 West 73rd, NY, 7PM, Friday, July 28.       
 TRAUBE-Mildred. Died on July 21, 2000 at age 90 at her home in NYC. Wife of the late Shepard Traube. Mother of Victoria Traube and Elizabeth Traube. Contributions may be made to the SSDC Foundation for the Mildred and Shepard Traube Fellowship, 1501 Broadway, NY, NY 10036. Services Wednesda
 WILLI-Helen S. On July 24th at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Edward J. Willi. Father of Edward J. Willi Jr. of West Redding, CT., and Marion W. Whittemore of New York City. Grandmother of Denise W. Coffey of Tarrytown, NY, Laurence F. Whittemore III of Greenwich, CT., and Edward B. Whitt
 CALL-Helen Churchill Dalby. On July 26, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Anthony. Dear mother-in-law of Margo. Devoted grandmother of Abigail. Dedicated, longstanding member of the Twelfth Knight Club and The Player's Club. She will be profoundly missed. Memorial Servic
 GILLIES-Carol Zaiser. July 24, 2000, aged 68, at Cabrini Hospice, NY, of breast cancer, which for eight years she fought without quarter, to the very end: valiant, uncomplaining, a model of how life should be lived. Her husband, Ewen Gillies; sister, Marilyn Ott; stepsons Lindsay, Elliot an
 KONOVITCH-Bernyce. Age 75 on July 24. School teacher for over 25 years in West Simsbury, CT. Beloved wife of Rabbi Harold Konovitch. Loving mother of Jonathan, David and Robyn. Adored motherin-law, grandmother, aunt and cousin. She touched us all. Shiva through July 31 at Konovitch home, 48
 LOWY-Florette. Of Maplewood, 82, formerly of Newark and Short Hills, New Jersey, died Tuesday, July 25, 2000; beloved wife of Meyer R. Lowy; devoted mother of Peter Q. Lowy of Bradley Beach, Katherine & Martin Gurvey of Lincolnshire, IL and Susan and Lawrence Lubow of Convent Station, N.J.,
 MAHER-Eileen A. Of Centereach, NY, in her 79th year, on July 24, 2000. Former resident of Peter Cooper Village, NYC. Retiree from the Mobil Oil Corp. Survived by her cousin, Ruth Stephani of Patchogue, NY and her nephew, Paul Kelley of CT. Predeceased by her parents Arthur and Margaret Mahe
 MARGOLICK-Frances. Died on Tuesday, July 25th after a long illness. Beloved sister of Moses. Sister-in-law of Gert and Evelyn. ''Auntie Frances'' or ''A.F.'' to many nieces and nephews, to whom her tiny apartment on the Upper West Side was a compulsory stop and a safe, loving haven during p
 MODELL-Jill S. On July 25, 2000 at age 55, after a courageous struggle, from breast cancer. Passed away peacefully at home with her family at her side. Her tireless determination, optimism, love of people and life will be with us always. She is survived by her husband Jerry of 34 years, her
 PORTNOY-Charlotte S. (Kavanau), July 25, 2000. Loving wife of Isidore. Beloved mother of Miriam, Barbara, Gail and Joyce, and mother-in-law of Jack, Paul, Stan and Robert. Adored grandmother of Garrett, Joshua, Hilary, Deborah, Hana, Gregory, Elie, Liana. Devoted great-grandmother of Isabel
 RECKLER-Stanley R. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Stanley Reckler, beloved father of Nancy Reckler. We extend our deepest condolences to Nancy and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donold Zucker, President       
 WILLI-Helen S. On July 24th at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Edward J. Willi. Father of Edward J. Willi Jr. of West Redding, CT., and Marion W. Whittemore of New York City. Grandmother of Denise W. Coffey of Tarrytown, NY, Laurence F. Whittemore III of Greenwich, CT., and Edward B. Whitt
 Thea Porter, one of the earliest  among British fashion designers who rode hippie chic to high visibility, if not always to enduring commercial success, died on Monday in London. She was 72. Well before globalization became a fashion cliche, Ms. Porter was deploying the concept in h
 ALPERT-Ellen. Beloved mother of Daisy and Lukas, sister of Marianne Persson, Bengt Persson and Leif Hulten, died Monday, July 24 in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her memory to the Carcinoid Cancer Foundation, Inc. 1751 York Ave, New York, New York 10128.       
 GOODMAN-Ruth. Payne Whitney Clinic Social Workers of the Ruth Goodman era note her passing with sadness. She was a Director whose clinical acumen was enriched by her sharp wit and deep love of family. Sue Matorin       
 JANOS-Lillian. To my darling mother. All that knew her loved her. She adored her two grandsons, Jamie and Mitchell, and her granddaughter, Ann, and her five great-grandchildren, Ian, Joshua, Miles, Morgan and Nikki. Marsha and Shelly Corn       
 JOHNSON-Dorothy Frances. July 21 at the age of 94. at The Osborne, Rye, N.Y. Dedicated teacher and good friend. Survived by brother Frederick of Savanna, Georgia. Friends and students in many different countries will remember her as an inspiring science teacher. Memorial contributions may b
 LIPSON-Rebecca (Rhea) Nagurka, on July 24, 2000, in her 93rd year. Devoted wife of the late Julius; mother of Lenore Nemeth; grandmother of Deborah and Mitchell Gelberg, Laurie and Helmut Roth, and Alan Nemeth; great-grandmother of Jamie Gelberg; sister of Calma, Jack, Laura and Sam Nagurka
 BUTTERWORTH-Patricia Fisk, 57, of 878 West End Avenue, Manhattan, and Cranbury, N.J. died at home in Cranbury on Wednesday. Born in Greensboro, N.C., she was a resident of both Cranbury and Manhattan. Mrs. Butterworth graduated from the University of the Pacific and was affiliated with Whit
 HELLMAN-Aviva died peacefully in her sleep on July 26th, after a long illness. She will be buried in Jerusalem. The widow of Yehuda Hellman, the Executive Vice Chairman of The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations; Mrs. Hellman was a prolific novelist and author of
 HIRSCH-Lois (nee Levinson). Beloved wife of Myron for 52 years. Devoted mother of Marilyn (Gary) and Barbara (Eric). Loving grandmother of David, Gabrielle, Kevin and Ross. Sister of Phyllis (Norman) Stillman and Jerome (Cathy) Levinson. She will be always in our hearts. Services Sunday 10 
 HUNT-Diana. July 22, 2000. Diana had a long and distinguished career in the theatre. Following her first job as director of operettas for the Shubert Organization, she became an agent for actors and writers. She helped launch the careers of many talented artists. A memorial service will be 
 JENSEN-Alison Pfeiffer, age 78, of Hill Rd. Old Saybrook, CT. Wife of Oliver Jensen died July 26, 2000. Besides her husband she leaves two sons Christopher and Stephen Hargrove, one daughter Penelope Hargrove.       
 POWERS-Ruth Pedersen. Died July 25, 2000 in Saint Louis, MO. at the age of 93. She had a long, effective career as a social worker in Buffalo with the Family Service, and in New York City at Travelers' Aid & Community Service Society. Ms. Powers was born in Brooklyn and moved to Stroudsburg
 STERN-Roslyn B. On July 27, 2000 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother of Peter and his wife Joan, loving grandmother of Jeffrey & Amy & her husband David. She lives on in the hearts of all who knew her. Services at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC, 1
 WECHSLER-Dora (nee Auer). Devoted wife for sixty years of the late, loving Levy I. Wechsler, passed away on Thursday, July 27. Adored and adoring mother of son Harry and wife Hanna, and of daughter Evy Grunberg and her late husband Lica. Very dear omi of Orit and Howard Kastner and their ch
 FLANNERY-Frances E. (nee O'Brien). Peacefully on July 27, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Stephen. She will be missed and remembered by her children Marc, Deirdre and Brian, her six grandchildren, and her sisters Enda and Deirdre. Family and friends may call at the Richards Funeral Home, 144
 HIRSCH-Lois. We mourn the loss of our cherished friend, Lois Hirsch. Her radiant spirit and extraordinary courage will always be an inspiration. We will forever remember her generosity, kindness and vitality. Our sincere condolences to her dear husband Myron and her family. Barbara and Rich
 JAMES-Debra. Mentoring USA and HELP USA mourn the loss of Debra Scala James, Senior Vice President at NYU. Debra's leadership and wisdom encouraged and improved the lives of many people. She was a community activist, humanitarian and role model for all New Yorkers. Matilda Raffa Cuomo, Foun
 KUPIETZKY-Fanny. Matriarch of one of Jewry's leading families. Wife of Rabbi Jacob Kupietzky OBM, past leader of Agudas Harabanim of America, mother of Rabbi Jonah and Fran Kupietzky of NYC, Nachman and Elke Kupietzky of Jerusalem, Channy Kupietzky Greenberg and Dr. Abraham Greenberg of Mer
 NIERENBERG-Joan Werblin. Age 80. On July 16, 2000 after a valiant battle with Alzheimer's. Former Life Magazine copy chief and SUNY Purchase Trustee. Born in Somerville, N.J., graduate of Mount Holyoke College, and longtime resident of Chappaqua, N.Y. Survived by her husband, David E. Niere
 SHERWIN-Jean E. On July 26, 2000, of Roslyn Heights, NY. Devoted daughter of the late Rose & Monroe. Beloved sister of Vicki and Roger Wyman; dear aunt of Robin Wyman; cherished niece of Sylvia & Irwin Grossman, Dorothy Margolin, Douglas and Joyce Sherwin. Services Sunday 1 PM at ''Gutterma
 STERN-Roslyn B. On July 27, 2000 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother of Peter and his wife Joan, loving grandmother of Jeffrey & Amy & her husband David. She lives on in the hearts of all who knew her. Services at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC, 1
 WOLKONSKY-Elisa ''Chita'' (nee Balmaceda). On July 28, 2000. Beloved mother of Marina Galesi and her husband Francesco. Grandmother of Sasha and Francesca. Friends will be received on Monday, July 31 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian burial Tuesday,
 MEYEROVITZ-Marguerite. Died aged 90 in Colmar France July 19th. Widow of Jan Meyerovitz, musicologist and composer who deceased on December 1998, she was an organist and a professor of French musical diction at the Juilliard School of Lincoln Center. She was also a French diction coach at t
 De WILDE-Susan J. Died on July 27, 2000, after a long and valiant battle with cancer. She was 53. Devoted mother to Sara and Geoffrey-she will be forever in our hearts. Also survived by her family in British Columbia, Canada: Elaine, Wynne, Lorraine, Stan & Joy. Daughter of the late Aubrey 
 HITCHMAN-Grace C. Of Pine Bush, NY. Retired executive secretary for James Felt and Co., NYC, died Friday, July 28, 2000, at home. She was 95. Devoted daughter of Robert F. and Mary E. Wallace Hitchman. She was born October 9, 1904, in NYC. Survivors include her loving sister Rose F. Leonard
 KIEVES-Marion. We mourn the loss of our co-worker and dear friend. May the memory of her caring for others bring comfort to her family and friends. She will always be our very special diamond that will shine forever. We love you and miss you. Underneath It All       
 MASCOLO-Constance ''Connie.'' Age 79, of Trumbull, CT. A homemaker, died on Saturday, July 29, 2000. Born in NYC and resident of Trumbull, CT, for 32 years. She was the widow of Frank C. Mascolo. Surviving are her daughters, Joan Gershen and husband Joel of Merrick, LI, Carol Golden and hus
 McKEON-Sr. Kathryn. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Friday, July 28, 2000. Survived by her sister, Agnes Beebe, and by her nephews. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, 9:30 AM, at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St., Yonkers. Interment at St. Jo
 WIENER-Janet (nee Hyman). Of Somers, NY; on July 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Louis; devoted mother of Debra and her husband Elliott; loving grandmother of Luc and Alexandra; and dear friend to many. She lives in the hearts of all who knew her.       
 WOLKONSKY-Elisa ''Chita'' (nee Balmaceda). On July 28, 2000. Beloved mother of Marina Galesi and her husband Francesco. Grandmother of Sasha and Francesca. Friends will be received on Monday, July 31 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian burial Tuesday,
 YACHNES-Eleanor, M.D. On July 29, 2000. Beloved mother of Candy Systra, Laura Systra and Andrew Yachnes. Loving mother-in-law to Michael, grandmother to Daniel and Alexander, aunt to Matt, Lucy and Emily Gertz, Paul and Linda Yachnes. Psychoanalyst and vigorous lover of life. She will be mi
