 Margaret Byrd Rawson, an educator, researcher and author who spent some 70 years identifying and treating reading disorders, died on Nov. 25 at her home near Frederick, Md. She was 102. She wrote nine books and many articles on dyslexia and was an early and enduring force in the Int
 Rosemary Brown, who as a middle-aged widow living in a London suburb in the 1960's said she had been in contact with history's most illustrious composers, offering as evidence hundreds of piano miniatures that she said Beethoven, Bach and others had ''dictated'' to her, died on Nov. 16 in L
 Mary Whitehouse, a British schoolteacher and mother of three who for more than 30 years campaigned vociferously against sex, violence and blasphemy on television, stage and screen, died on Nov. 23 in Colchester, England. She was 91. Variously called ''the most dangerous woman in Bri
 Louise Steinhart Loeb, a New York benefactor of child welfare agencies and other causes, died Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 86. Her association with the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services spanned more than four decades. In 1962, as pre
 LAST week, as the fiercely partisan legislators of the virtually bankrupt Nassau County turned blue in the face during an all-night fight over their 2002 budget, the inner schoolmarm, dormant since she left teaching for politics, emerged in the presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs. The count
 Mercedes Matter, a painter, teacher and the chief founder of the New York Studio School in Greenwich Village, died on Tuesday. She was 87  and lived in East Hampton on Long Island. Mrs. Matter was born Mercedes Carles in New York in 1913. Her father, the American modernist Arthur B.
 Faith Hubley, a three-time Academy Award winner whose 50 animated films often combined elements of myth, jazz and a deeply felt humanism, died on Friday in New Haven. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. For more than 45 years Ms. Hubley made a film a year, an achievement that Dan McL
 Laurie Johnston, a World War II correspondent, an author and a reporter for The New York Times who was cited for the humanity and wit of her writing, died at her home in Honolulu on Friday. She was 87. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her daughter Elisa W. Johnston said. Alt
 Megan Boyd, whose fabled expertise at tying enchantingly delicate fishing flies put her work in museums and the hands of collectors around the world and prompted Queen Elizabeth II to award her the British Empire Medal, died Nov. 15 in Golspie, Scotland. She was 86. She did not rece
 Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. She had cancer, her family said. Mrs. Schneider's husband, Irving Schneider, is ch
 Pauline Campanelli, a painter whose super-realist still lifes were so popular that their sales were rivaled only by those of Andrew Wyeth among living artists, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Pohatcong Township, N.J., a few miles south of Phillipsburg. She was 58. Her husband, Dan, a
 Erica Van Acker, whose experience was the basis of a pioneering public television documentary on rape in 1971 and who became an early public spokeswoman for those who had been raped, died on Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan and Sa
 Naomi Schor, a literary critic and theorist who combined psychoanalytic theory, avant-garde philosophy and feminism to come up with quirky, often startling insights into 19th-century French authors including Flaubert and Zola, died on Dec. 2 at a New Haven hospital. She was 58 and lived in 
 Frances Elizabeth Holberton, one of the first computer programmers, whose contributions to software over the years ranged from an early data-sorting program to helping develop the business programming language Cobol, died on Dec. 8 at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. She was 84. The
 Martha Mödl, one of Germany's leading Wagnerian singers, died last Sunday in a hospital in Stuttgart. She was 89. Miss Mödl was known as much for her dramatic intensity as for her powerful, thrilling voice, which sometimes betrayed difficulties in the upper register. She began her
 Catherine Voorsanger, an associate curator of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Monday in New York City. She was 51 and lived in Manhattan. She died of complications of melanoma, said her family. Ms. Voorsanger worked at the Met since 1983, 
