 Lillian B. Miller, a Boston butcher's daughter who made American cultural history her oyster and the Peale family of painters her particular pearls, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. Her family said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhag
 KING-Helen. 73, on November 29, 1997, after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. Her beautiful spirit, generosity and unselfish devotion touched everyone she knew and will be in our hearts forever. Surviving son Jeff, daughter Lori, daughter-in-law Lise, sonin-law Naim, granddaugh
 MACDOUGALL-Rella. The Women's Committee of The Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club express their deepest sorrow in the passing of their dear friend and colleague. Rella, who joined the committee in 1973, was a guiding force to all of us. As Chairman of The Kips Bay Decorator Show House, her extrao
 SCHWARZ-Brina (nee Silin). Died November 29, 1997, at age 93. Loving wife of Howard Schwarz, deceased. Survived by two brothers, seven nieces and nephews, 11 great-nieces and nephews. Kind and caring, she will be missed by family and friends.       
 SEIDELL-Marguerite (nee McCoy). Of Hempsetad, NY. On November 29, 1997. Marguerite, known as Maggie to her family and friends, was born April 8, 1926, in the Bronx. Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James R. McCoy. Beloved wife of Herbert A. Loving mother of James R., Martin A., Herbert A., Jr., Chr
 STRAUSS-Renate (nee Cale). On November 29, after many years of illness, mourned by her loving family. She is survived by her husband Gideon, their children Sharon, Eran and Adin, their spouses and five grandchildren. Services private. Donations to National Multiple Sclerosis Society, 30 Wes
 Toby Lelyveld, a teacher of literature who specialized in the stage history of Shakespeare's plays, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Her book, ''Shylock on the Stage'' (Western Reserve University, 1960), traced the way the moneylender in ''The Merchant of Venice'
 BATKIN-Ruth L. On December 1, 1997. Beloved wife of Sanford (Sandy). Loving mother of Helen Younger and her husband Marc. Devoted grandmother of David Younger. Loving sister of Elaine Rosenberg. Dearly loved by her family and many, many friends, Ruth was a truly compassionate woman who touc
 GREENBERG-Benjamin. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the father of our esteemed member, Ruth Rabbani, and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences. The family requests that any contributions be made to Young Israel of Fifth Avenue.       
 KARNES-Irma Shongut. I want to express my profound sadness at the death of my great aunt Irma. Born December 11, 1912 and died November 30, 1997. She was very special to me. I will miss the warmth, affection and kindness she has always shown me. I will remember her always with love. Michele
 KOENIGSBERG-Helen. Nov. 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Devoted mother of Harold. Loving sister of Ruth Grossman. Services Tues., 12 noon, ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her memory to a charity of choice.       
 KRANTZ-Linda. Beloved wife of Morry. Devoted mother to Todd and Lauren. Loving mother-in-law to David and Ligia and adoring grandmother to Matthew, Lindsay and Jessica. Passed away early on the morning of November 30, 1997 as she lived with great courage and dignity. Funeral services will b
 LATTES-Eva H. Born July 29, 1909 in Berlin, Germany to Georg and Elsa Hahn, died November 30. She is survived by Dr. Raffaele Lattes, her husband of 61 years. She was the mother of Dr. Robert Lattes and the late Dr. Conrad Lattes and the grandmother of Lisa, Brad, Abigail, Conrad, Heather, 
 LOUGHLIN-Laura Frances Brennan, 86. Of Bradenton, Florida, formerly of Kew Gardens, NY, died November 27. Interment will be 2PM, Friday, December 5 at St. Charles Cemetery, New Highway & Conklin St., Farmingdale, NY, for her and the cremated remains of her late husband, Richard L. Loughlin,
 McCARTHY-Catherine. December 1, 1997. Survived by numerous nieces and nephews. She was a Eucharistic Minister and lector at St. Catherine of Sienna RC Church. Retired AT&T. Reposing Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Avenue, NYC, Wednesday 3-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Thursday, 10 AM, at S
 McDOUGAL-Rella. I feel lucky I have had the opportunity to meet this wonderful human being. Her class, elegance and wisdom will always remain with me. Leon Constantiner       
 OSTROFF-Frieda. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American ORT deeply mourn the passing of our longtime supporter and friend. Frieda Ostroff was a member of American ORT's Board of Directors and Chair, and later Honorary Chair of its Workman's Circle Division. Deeply committed t
 OSTROFF-Frieda (nee Pomerantz). On December 1, 1997 at the age of 74. Cherished wife of Harold, beloved mother of Madelon and Philip Braun and Sandra Ostroff. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Kelli and Jessica Braun and Alison and Debra Gottlieb and treasured great-grandmother of Jeffrey Braun
 PEARLMAN-Betty L. Died November 19, 1997. A woman of courage and intelligence. Survived by daughter Donna and sister Freda. She will be greatly missed.       
 RICE-Mary Ellen (nee McCarthy). Of Jackson Heights on November 26, 1997, in her 85th year. Widow of N.Y.F.D. Battalion Chief John A. Rice. Beloved mother of the late James T., the late Michael, Alice Rice Hutchinson of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Jack. Devoted grandmother of John and Jenny
 SALKOWITZ-Fae. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights mourns the passing of our beloved member, Fae Salkowitz, and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband, Al, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 SCHREIER-Barbara. The staff, officers and members of the American Technion Society (ATS) sorrowfully mourn the untimely passing of Barbara Schreier, wife of Stephen Schreier, our Senior Vice President for Campaign. A woman of indomitable spirit, she battled her illness courageously for many
 SEYMOUR-Abby Lewis. We mourn the loss of the widow of our beloved and distinguished member John Davenport Seymour. She was a sweet and lovely lady and a true woman of the Theatre. She will be missed. The Players       
 ST. JOHN-Irmgard. Died at Mt. Sinai Hospital on November 29th at the age of 61. A resident of Bridgehampton for the past 24 years, she was a Principal, Managing Director of the Allan M. Schneider Associates, Inc. Previously, she resided in London and New York City and was a fashion illustra
 STONE-Nina Joan Pymer ''Jodie'' died Sunday, November 29, 1997, at her winter home in New Smyrna Beach, FL. Born in Baltimore, MD, January 7, 1929, she was a 1946 graduate of Friends School, Baltimore, and a 1948 graduate of Edgewood Park College. She was the widow of George Norton Stone, f
 STRAUSS-Renate (nee Cale). On November 29, after many years of illness, mourned by her loving family. She is survived by her husband Gideon, their children Sharon, Eran and Adin, their spouses and five grandchildren. Services private. Donations to National Multiple Sclerosis Society, 30 Wes
 WANAMAKER-Virginia Thaw. Of Southamption, NY on November 29, 1997. Predeceased by her husband Rodman II. Survived by her step-daughters, Mrs. James B. Watriss of Glyndon, MD, and Mrs. Francis Rice of Huntington, NY. Also survived by five step-grandchildren and her cousins, Anthony Drexel Du
 Kathy Acker, a child of Sutton Place who rose to prominence as a willfully abrasive novelist and performance artist in the post-punk East Village of the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at an alternative cancer treatment center in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 53 and lived in San Francisco.      
 BATKIN-Ruth. We have lost a beloved and devoted friend. She will be sorely missed. Our sincerest sympathies to Sandy, Helen, Marc and David. Sylvia and Bob, Ellen and Moshe BATKIN-Ruth. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of David Yellin Teachers College deeply mourn the 
 BROWN-Frieda G. Beloved wife of the late Arthur J. Brown. Devoted mother of Margot and Gordon. Mother-in-law of Martin and Sheila. Grandmother of Kenneth, Juliette, David, Sheryl, Michael, Mindi and Adam. Great grandmother of Aaron. She will be forever cherished. She was a lovely lady who w
 CANTOR-Josef Alexander. We express our Kos Tanchumim to Irene Cantor on the passing of her beloved hushand, Josef. As Founders of the Medical Center and supporters of the Jesselson Heart Center, their participation has helped to provide comprehensive, state-of-the-art cardiac care to the pe
 DELIBERT-Anne Lash. Died on November 27, 1997, in her 87th year. She is survived by her husband of fifty-eight years, Joseph C. Delibert; by their son Steven, his wife Kris Reed, and their daughters Harsha and Himu; by their son Arthur, his wife Anne, and their daughter Adrienne; and by a S
 FOSTER-Gertrude Bates, 77. On November 29, 1997. Born on November 17, 1920 at Morristown, N.J., daughter of Putnam Asbury and Emeline Goold Vernam Bates. Beloved wife of Philip W. Foster, with whom she established Laurel Hill Herb Farm in Morristown in 1942. In 1946 they moved the business 
 FREEZER-Jeanette. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Jeanette Freezer, devoted Member, past President of its Sisterhood and Women's Division Sponsor, who with her late husband, Irving, provided leadership to our Congregation. To her son Jacob, our dedicated Member, and the entire fam
 GRACE-Marie Hussey. Faithful wife of George T. Grace. Mother of six children. Beloved by her extended family qnd many friends. Longtime resident of Bal Harbour. She is survived by her four daughters: Marilyn, Catherine, Sharon, Wendy and her loving grandchildren. Funeral Mass 10 A.M., St. J
 HARTIGAN-Nancy Irene. On December 1, 1997. Beloved wife of John D., mother of Anne Harrison, Carol, Patti and Thomas. Devoted grandmother of five. Since 1985, she was a Reference Librarian at the Harrison Public Library where she was invaluable to patrons from youngsters to senior citizens.
 KATZ-Dorothy Palmer. On December 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herbert M. Palmer and Jerome F. Katz. Loving mother of Joan P. Wolff and John H. Palmer. Adored grandmother of Kenneth R. Wolff, Robert P. Wolff, Ellen Wolford, John F. Palmer and Thomas K. Palmer; and stepmother of Midge Kr
 McDOUGAL-Rella. I feel lucky I have had the opportunity to meet this wonderful human being. Her class, elegance and wisdom will always remain with me. Leon Constantiner       
 OSTROFF-Frieda (nee Pomerantz). On December 1, 1997 at the age of 74. Cherished wife of Harold, beloved mother of Madelon and Philip Braun and Sandra Ostroff. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Kelli and Jessica Braun and Alison and Debra Gottlieb and treasured great-grandmother of Jeffrey Braun
 WHITTAKER-Nell Gardner. 12/3/40-10/22/88. Remembering what fun she was makes us miss her even more.       
 BATKIN-Ruth. The leadership and staff of the Westchester Division of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Ruth Batkin, a dedicated supporter of Israel. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Sanford and the entire family. Gideon Patt, President Burton P. Resnick National Campai
 BISTRITZKY-Schifra. We mourn the loss of a devoted friend and a kind and compassionate person, Mrs. Schifra Bistritzky. As a Founder of the Medical Center, she played a vital role in helping the mission of the ''Hospital with a Heart'' to heal the sick and ease the pain of the people of Jer
 DANNENBERG-Myra. In her 98th year, on December 3, 1997, residing for the past twenty years at the Alexander Towers, Hollywood, Florida, loving mother and mother-in-law to Richard and Barbara Dannenberg; adored grandmother to Susan J.D. Randoing and Olivier Randoing of Melbourne, Florida, an
 FORBES-Frances. Of Southport, CT., died December 1, 1997. She is survived by two sons and their wives; Glenn and Jamie Forbes of Weston, CT.; Peter and Ann Forbes of Boston, MA.; her two daughters, Jan Forbes of NYC, NY and Danette and Bram Muller of Holland. Funeral services and burial wil
 GITELSON-Esther. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Mourned by her loving family. Sons, Paul, Alan and David. Daughters-in-law, Aileen, Diane & Idy. Grandchildren, Lisa, Michael, Laura, Rachel, Jonathan, Eric and Ben. Services Friday, 10:00 A.M., Temple Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Pl
 ROTHBAUM-Milton W. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Milton W. Rothbaum, the first Hadassah Associate in Southern New Jersey and beloved husband of our esteemed colleague Bess Rothbaum, past National Treasurer. May Bess, her children, grandchildren and the entire fam
 SCHLOSBERG - Beatrice Quint. Former Director of Queen Lake Camp, Athol, Mass. Survived by her sister, Judith Q. Schreider of Newton Centre, Mass. Daughter and son-in-law Jane and Alan Winslow of San Francisco, California. Donations may be made to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston
 VIRGILIO-Lucille. December 14, 1917-November 27, 1997. Wife of the late Edward J. Virgilio. Survived by five children: Edward, Fredric (deceased), Peter, Ray (deceased) Martina; six grandchildren: Stephen, Ric, Rachel, Ray, Michelle. Lucille was born in Brooklyn, married Edward in 1938 and 
 Adelma Grenier Simmons, the author of dozens of books on herbs, died on Wednesday at her home on the Caprilands Herb Farm in Coventry, Conn., which she founded in 1929 and developed into a teaching center and a business. She was 93. Mrs. Simmons, called ''the first lady of herbs'' b
 BENENSON-Sylvia. December 4, 1997. Loving and loved wife of the late Charles. Cherished mother of Abbe Franklin and Walter Benenson and wonderful Bobby to four grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. We will miss you. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., (at 81 St.), 
 CHMELA-Dorothy (nee Roantree). A former librarian, died of multiple myeloma on December 2 at her home in Larchmont, NY. She will be remembered for her devotion to friends, her love of animals, especially Honey and Pussycat, her warmth, enthusiasm, and smiling good humor despite a most diffi
 DANNENBERG-Myra. In her 98th year, on December 3, 1997, residing for the past twenty years at the Alexander Towers, Hollywood, Florida, loving mother and mother-in-law to Richard and Barbara Dannenberg; adored grandmother to Susan J.D. Randoing and Olivier Randoing of Melbourne, Florida, an
 HAMBURG-Charlotte. Died Dec. 3 after losing her courageous fight after a long illness. We have lost a beloved wife and mother. She will be sorely missed. Herbert, Nancy Steven and Richard       
 HEIMAN-Dr. Silvia. Died peacefully Thursday, December 4, in her 88th year. Born in 1910 in the Austro-Hungarian empire, she earned her M.D. degree in Vienna in 1936. Along with her husband, the late Dr. Marcel Heiman, she left Vienna in 1938, eventually settling in New York in 1944. She beg
 MCNAMEE-Margaret Ellen. The people of Tishman Realty and Construction Co, Inc. mourn the loss of our respected and dear colleague, Margaret McNamee, and extend our sincere sympathy to her parents, sisters, and family. She was totally dedicated to helping people in her position of Benefits M
 MEREDITH-Erlene. Wife of Metropolitan Opera Baritone, Morley Meredith, of Scarsdale, New York. Died of cancer at St. Agnes Hospital on December 3, 1997. Born in Winston-Salem, NC. She graduated from Greensboro College and later obtained her M.A. at Columbia University. Upon graduation she w
 PISTO-Bernadette. December 2, 1997. Survived by her loving husband Jerry Liddell, her brother Jim, her sister Donna. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held Monday, December 8th at the United Nations Chapel, 44th and 1st Avenue, NYC, 2PM. The family request that no flowers be 
 SUSMAN-Karen Hyman, 55. Of Houston, Texas, died on December 3, 1997 in New York City. Daughter of Dorothy Jean Hyman and the late Paul Hyman of Austin. Karen was born and raised in Austin, where she graduated from Austin High. At the University of Texas, from which she graduated in 1964, sh
 WILCHEK-Stella. On December 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William Wilchek. Loving sister of William Kullman. Compassionate and committed friend. Many had the benefit of her uncompromising love, wisdom and teaching. She was an active participant in the causes she held dear and the lives 
 XELOWSKI-Mary Louise. Born in Chicago, Illinois on August 11, 1912, died November 30, 1997 in San Jose, California. Daughter of the late Thaddeus Zigmund Xelowski and Lina May (Bliss) Xelowski. She attended Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart, 1931-32 and Loyola University-Chicago, P
 After Shira A. Scheindlin was appointed to the Federal District Court in Manhattan a few years ago, she told an interviewer for a legal newspaper that she expected to be more of a ''settling judge than a brilliant opinion writer.'' But in case after case these days, Judge Scheindlin
 FISHER-Rose Kerstein. Passed away on the eve of her 92nd year. Beloved mother of Sarah Fisher Gillman and son-in-law Neil Gillman. Loving grandmother of Abigail Gillman and Michael Prince and Deborah Gillman. Proud great-grandmother of Jacob Samuel Prince. Devoted wife of the late Harry Fis
 MEREDITH-Erlene, on December 3, 1997, our family lost our cherished friend after her long and valiant battle with ovarian cancer. She was an unforgettable presence in the lives of all who knew her. With love and enthusiasm, she dedicated her life to the operatic career of her husband, Morle
 OSTROFF-Frieda. The Board and Management of The National Cooperative Business Association, previously known as The Cooperative League of the U.S.A., deeply mourn the passing away of a great cooperator, a person who dedicated her life to helping others less fortunate without regard to nation
 TREUHOLD-Kerstin M. (Kris). The directors, officers, friends and colleagues of Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder, Inc., mourn the passing of Kris Treuhold. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Chuck, son Robert and all members of her family.       
 ZWICKER-Sally, December 2, 1997. A sweet and gentle woman who left an indelible mark upon her family who treasured her company, respected her counsel and never stopped appreciating her love and devotion. Her respect for others' feelings, her selflessness and humility, her lively intelligenc
 Adele Ravsky Heller, who with her husband, Lester, bought and nurtured the Provincetown Playhouse in Massachusetts and tried to rebuild it after it burned in 1977, died on Nov. 12 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 75. Mrs. Heller was born in New York City and began 
 BERNSTEIN-Elsie Peress. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Murray Bernstein, her sons Herbert and Maurice Peress and their families our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine
 CHUSID-Alta Butkus. Of Goshen, a 39 year resident of Mt Vernon, NY, died December 2. Daughter of the late Paul and Anastasia Butkus, she was born May 24, 1920 in Linden, NJ. She was the widow of Dr. Emanuel Chusid. Survivors include a sister Viola Stanislowski, children Michael Chusid of Li
 HAASE - Mary - Frances. The Board of Directors of Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital note with sorrow the lost of Mary-Frances Haase, former President, longtime Board member and volunteer. Her devotion to patients will long be remembered. We extend sympathy to her family.       
 KLING-Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Albert, devoted mother of Ellen and Stephen Leifer and Jason and Randi Kling. Cherished grandmother of Margot Leifer, loving sister of Frances Sharkey. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Sunday, 1:30 PM. KLING-Mildre
 LESSER-Sadye Lind. On December 6, 1997. Beloved mother of Warren and Peter Lesser. Dearest mother-in-law of Linda and Sheila. Devoted and adored grandmother of Mark Lesser, Beth and Larry Lipman. Cherished sister of Robert Lind and the late Ira and Albert Lind. She was a spirited and warm w
 MEREDITH-Erlene, on December 3, 1997, our family lost our cherished friend after her long and valiant battle with ovarian cancer. She was an unforgettable presence in the lives of all who knew her. With love and enthusiasm, she dedicated her life to the operatic career of her husband, Morle
 ROTH-Rose. On December 4, 1997 at the age of 86. Together forever with her devoted husband Norman. Beloved mother of Karen and Elliott Aronstam. Cherished grandmother of Danielle. Dear sister to Leah, Shirley and Annette. Private services will be held today.       
 THOMAS-Doris A. Formerly of Lewisboro, NY died peacefully at home in Norwich, VT., December 2, 1997. Beloved wife of Gordon A. Thomas, devoted mother to Krista Lynn Thomas and Alix Elizabeth Jenkins. Her love of life, generosity, and compassion enriched a wide circle of family and friends. 
 MEREDITH-Erlene, on December 3, 1997, our family lost our cherished friend after her long and valiant battle with ovarian cancer. She was an unforgettable presence in the lives of all who knew her. With love and enthusiasm, she dedicated her life to the operatic career of her husband, Morle
 SMITH-Mary Jane. Of Davidson Avenue, Bronx, on December 6, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of James T. and Michael J. Smith. Also survived by five grandchildren. Visiting at the Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., Eastchester, Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Buri
 STOWE-Peter. Father of Dr. Bonnie Diamond and her husband Dr. Paul Diamond. Grandfather of Jonathan, brother of Dr. Nathan Stowe.       
 WEISENFELD-Mildred. Died on December 6, 1997. The members and officers of Fight For Sight Manhattan League deeply regret the passing of Mildred Weisenfeld. Miss Weisenfeld was the pioneer in eye research philanthropy. For the past 50 years Miss Weinsenfeld's energy, persistence and leadersh
 ZWICKER-Sally. We join the Lubin and Vecker families in mourning a truly beloved woman. Adored great aunt of Deanne and Jerry, Barry and Carole, Janice and Mike, and David. Cherished great great aunt of Karen and Mike, Pam and Tom, Craig, Debbie, and Jeffrey. She will always remain in our h
 Violet Carlson, who amused vaudeville with a comic kid act in the 1910's, then helped keep Broadway musical-comedy audiences laughing through the Roaring Twenties and into the Depression and created the role of Gretchen in the original production of ''The Student Prince,'' died on Wednesday
 AUSTER-Martin. All of Gail's friends at the law firm of Auster & Arisohn convey their loving condolences to Gail and her family on the death of her father. Gail was a devoted daughter.       
 BALLAS-Lila. Age 89, passed away in Manhattan on Saturday December 6, 1997. Born in Brooklyn, she was a long time resident of Surfside, FL. Beloved wife of the late Thomas, loving mother of Dianna de Martino and Virginia Marcus, dear mother-in-law of Leonard de Martino and Leonard Marcus, c
 CABRAL-Olga Kurtz. Friends and family sadly report her death on December 6, 1997 at age 88. Renowned poet and author, she enriched the lives of all she touched. A memorial will be held January 18, 1998, 3 P.M., at Westbeth, 55 Bethune Street, New York City.       
 CHICCO-Merilyn Criene. Of East Stroudsburg, PA. Formerly of Sucasunna, NJ. Born June 27, 1936 in Scranton, died December 6 at Mt. Sinai Hospital, NYC of a stroke. With her first husband, Leonard D. Chicco, Merilyn founded Web Dynamics, Inc., developing novel machines to manufacture face mas
 FRANKLIN-Jayne D. Devoted mother of the late Jill Franklin, woman of valor who faced the tragedies in life with spirit and fortitude, died December 7, 1997. Her generosity, kindness, humanity and joy of life enriched the lives of her family and friends. She will be missed and mourned by all
 FRISCHMAN-Regina. For 72 glorious years devoted wife of, and sweetheart of, Sol who watched over and loved her tenderly. Caring mother of Elaine and Sandra, grandmother of Denise, Juliet, Rebecca, Diana and Eric. Greatgrandmother of Sara, Amelia and Elizabeth. Loving sister of Charlie, Anni
 GREENE-Janet Steinberg. Age 88. On December 7, 1997 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in NYC. Beloved wife of the late Wilfred and beloved mother of Dorothy Alexis. For more than three decades, as school psychologist for the Dalton School, teacher, and psychotherapist, she gave u
 ROBERTSON-Dr. Susan. Died on December 6th, 1997. Born 1943 in Detroit to Dorothy and the late Albert Robertson. Educated at Bryn Mawr College and Yeshiva University (Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology). Dr. Robertson was a psychotherapist with a private practice in N.Y. She is survived by her bel
 ROSE-Faye. December 4, 1901December 7, 1997. Faye was loved by everyone for her warm generous personality. She was a musical talent who loved to entertain. We will all miss her. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Allan and Jeanette Zimmerman. Dear mother-in-law of Howard Zim
 SEILER-Paula, M.D. On April 9, 1997 in Gothenburg, Sweden at the age of 100 years. Dr. Seiler was a native New Yorker born on December 7, 1896. She graduated from NYU Medical School in 1922 and was in general practice over forty years at 15 West 11th Street in Greenwich Village. She was inv
 WEINER-Annette B. New York University mourns the passing of Annette B. Weiner, former dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Science. First and foremost an internationally noted anthropologist renowned for her keen eye, Dr. Weiner was also a brilliant educator and researcher, an accomplished
 WEISENFELD-Mildred. Died on December 6, 1997. The members and officers of Fight For Sight Manhattan League deeply regret the passing of Mildred Weisenfeld. Miss Weisenfeld was the pioneer in eye research philanthropy. For the past 50 years Miss Weinsenfeld's energy, persistence and leadersh
 BECKER-Marion (Mimi) Zimmerman Davis. A founding member of the United Choral Society of Nassau County and the Friday Woodmere Music Club of Woodmere, New York, both of which honored her this past year. She died in her 93rd year, December 9, 1997 - at 3030 Park Health Center, Bridgeport, CT.
 BURCK-Mildred George. Of Piermont, NY, long active in Rockland County Community Affairs, on December 3, in Nyack. Born October 3, 1907, in Oskaloosa, IA., she was a founder and early board member of the Rockland County Mental Health Association, founding chairman of the Friends of the Pierm
 CHICCO-Merilyn Criene. Of East Stroudsburg, PA. Formerly of Sucasunna, New Jersey. Born June 27, 1936 in Scranton, died on December 6 at Mt. Sinai Hospital, NYC of a stroke. With her first husband, Leonard D. Chicco, Merilyn founded Web Dynamics, Inc., developing novel machines to manufactu
 ENGLEBERG-Rabbi Louis. We express our Kos Tanchumim to Gertude Herlands Engleberg on the passing of her beloved husband, Louis. Mrs. Engelberg, a sister of the late Charles H. Bendheim, past president of the Medical Center's American Committee, is a Founder and long time supporter. She has 
 ENLOE-Jane, 79. Of Kennett Square, PA., died Monday, December 8, 1997 at Chester County Hospital. She was a member of the Religious Society of Friends and a graduate from Wheaton College. She is survived by her husband, Roger; two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret McIntyre Enloe both of NYC
 FRANKLIN-Jayne D. Devoted mother of the late Jill Franklin, woman of valor who faced the tragedies in life with spirit and fortitude, died December 7, 1997. Her generosity, kindness, humanity and joy of life enriched the lives of her family and friends. She will be missed and mourned by all
 JAMPOL-Bernice. On December 9, 1997. Devoted wife of Dr. Jesse H. Jampol. Loving mother of Ellen, Ruth and David. Dear grandmother of Emily and Diana Moers and Matthew and Eve Lifson. Sister of Deborah Apter. Services at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Second Avenue, (9th and 10th) New Y
 LIFTON-Florence. In her 98th year. Devoted wife of the late Herman Lifton. Loving sister of Harold and Irving Richards.       
 MICHAEL - Catherine Barbara Whitten. The Brooklyn Hospital Center expresses deepest sympathy to the family of Catherine Michael who for seven years directed our Department of Nursing with great warmth and professionalism. A fellow of Wharton School, Catherine was an accomplished nurse, writ
 RINGSTED-Margaret Jo. The managers and staff of Novo Nordisk of North American, Inc. mourn the passing of our former colleague, Margaret Jo Ringsted, in Paris, France, on December 4, after a long illness. Margaret Ringsted was Director of Corporate Communications for Novo Nordisk A/S and wo
 WEISENFELD-Mildred. Prevent Blindness America mourns the passing of Mildred Weisenfeld, founder of Fight For Sight. In 1988 Prevent Blindness America and Fight For Sight affiliated in mutual support of Mildred's unswerving fight against vision loss. Since 1946, Mildred raised millions of do
 Jeannette Edris Rockefeller, a lifelong volunteer and philanthropist, a former First Lady of Arkansas and stepmother of its current Lieutenant Governor, died of heart failure on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had lived for nearly 10 years. She was 79. Mrs. Roc
 DIAMOND-Susan L. Passed away on December 5 in Palm Beach, Florida, age 89. Beloved wife of Harry D. Diamond deceased. Devoted mother to Richard and Howard. Loving sister to Bernyce Fish and grandmother of five. Her loving nature and zest for life will be sorely missed.       
 GREEN-Alfred I. Beloved husband of Sandra. Loving father of Philip and Kathryn and her husband, Edward Feigeles. Cherished grandfather of Kara, Sam and Gregory. Dear brother of Harriet. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, 10:30 A.M., on Thursday.       
 HARLOW-Sue Carns. Wife of the late Arthur H. Harlow, Jr., died at 91, at her home in Santa Rosa, CA December 6, after a short illness. She devoted her life to community service, highlighted by ten recent years as a volunteer reader at the Lighthouse in NYC. Mother of Alison Harlow of Santa 
 WEISENFELD - Mildred. The Mount Sinai Medical Center Department of Ophthalmology mourns the passing of Mildred Weisenfeld, whose dedication supporting research in the understanding and treatment of disorders of the eye made possible many advances in our ability to better the lives of our pa
 Tamara Geva, a Russian-born dancer and actress who was the first wife of the choreographer George Balanchine, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. A sophisticated woman with a wide range of cultural interests, Miss Geva's career took her from ballet to musical comed
 Mildred Mosler Weisenfeld, who helped build an organization for researching blindness, died last Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dr. Kenneth R. Barasch, national president of the Fight for Sight, 
 BOBETSKY-Marie L. (nee Vuolo) Of Manhattan (formerly of Brooklyn) in her home on December 10, 1997 after a long illness. Devoted mother of Victor V. and Christopher J. Bobetsky. Funeral from the McManus Funeral Home, 2001 Flatbush Avenue, on Saturday, at 1 PM. Entombment Greenwood Cemetery.
 CHAPMAN-Patricia P. Of Hobe Sound, FL and Quoque, New York, on December 10, 1997. Survived by her husband William, children Timothy P. Orcutt and Faith O. Chase, six grandchildren, two great grandchildren and sister-inlaw Maureen Orcutt. Contributions in her memory may be made to the East E
 DEVOE-Margaret (nee Stobie). Formerly of Chappaqua, NY, on Monday, December 8, 1997. Wife of Arthur Gerard DeVoe, mother of Gerard Ely DeVoe, David Ramsay DeVoe and Ralph Godwin DeVoe. She is also survived by five grandchildren: Sanford, Margaret, Charles, Katherine and Laura. A kind, conce
 GATES-Evelyn B. Wednesday, December 10, 1997. Evelyn Byrd Gates of McLean, VA. Mother of C.N. Bliss, III, Locust Valley, NY, David A. Bliss, Otter, MT., Evelyn Byrd Metcalf, McLean, VA., Ada Gates Patton, Pasadena, CA., and Jonathan Gates, Pittsburgh, PA. She is also survived by three stepc
 JAFFE-Anita, 90, Of Camp Hill, PA, formerly of Jersey City, New Jersey died December 9, 1997 in Camp Hill. She was the widow of Dr. Benjamin Jaffe. Surviving are a daughter, Deborah J. Cohen, of Camp Hill; a son, Dr. Julius Jaffe, of Santa Rosa, CA; a sister, Naomi Asnes, Leonia, NJ; five g
 LINDER-Joan. On December 11, 1997. Survived by both parents and brother, Bernie Roberts; sister, Mildred Bader; children, Andrew and Felice and four grandchildren. Services are today, at 11:30 at ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island. She will be dearly missed
 MANN-Lydia Buhl. On December 10, 1997. Wife of William H. Mann. Mother of Christian A. Melhado and Peter A.B. Melhado. Grandmother of six. Sister of Henry M. Buhl. Memorial Mass at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84 Street, Tuesday, December 16, 11:00AM. In lieu of flowers, contr
 MORSE-Rae. Of Hollywood, FL. Formerly of Cedarhurst, N.Y. Passed away December 10, 1997. She is survived by two sons, Ira (Annliisa) of Boca Raton, FL., and John (Karen) of Del Mar, CA., and four grandchildren. Service will be 11 A.M., Sunday, December 14, at Mt. Judah Cemetery, Ridgewood. 
 Abby Lewis, an actress whose long career embraced theater, films, television and radio, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Lewis, whose original name was Camelia Albon Lewis, was born in Mesilla Park, N.M. She made her Broadway debut as the Player Queen in a 1
 FOSBURG-Jeanette (nee Rose), 78. Devoted mother of Susin Fair and Marc Shapiro. Loving grandmother of Samantha. Cherished daughter of Fannie Pollack. Loving sister of Irene and Martin Gross and Marvin and Sondra Rose. Beloved by her niece and nephews. She was a retired teacher from Franklin
 GROSBARD - Helene. Beloved wife of the late Jack Grosbard. Devoted mother of Richard, Michael and Robert Grosbard. Loving grandmother of Erin, Joshua, Lee, Remy, Adam and Rita. Devoted sister to Carola Bien and Bronek Janiszewski. An ardent supporter of The United States Holocaust Memorial 
 LAUINGER-Dora. To the loving memory of Dora Lauinger. 1905-1997. Wife of the late Max Lauinger. Survived by her niece and nephews Erika Bloomfield, Michael Bruell and Dan Barlev.       
 LICHAK-Mary Frances. On December 10, 1997. Beloved daughter of Mary Ellen Lichak. Sister of Thomas and the late Ruth Ann. Sister-in-law of Mary K. Also survived by six nieces and nephews. Mary worked at CBS as a researcher for thirty years. She was also a member of the Writers Guild and the
 OTTINGER-Louise L., 98. Died peacefully in her Hampshire House apartment on December 12, 1997. Major philanthropist and political activist for progressive social change causes, particularly for homeless and poor people in New York City. Curious about life, caring friend, involved citizen, p
 ZANE-Anna E. Dec. 12, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Ira Zane. Mother of Frances Louie Zane, Eliabeth Zane Malsky, Gloria Zane Gross, and James B. Zane. Survived by her four children, six grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Services Sunday, December 14, at 11:30 A.M., at West 
 BAKER-COHEN-France. Friends, colleagues and students mourn the death of Dr. France Baker-Cohen on November 23 at age 73. A graduate of Columbia University, she worked at the American Museum of Natural History and for many years as Assistant Professor of Anatomy at Albert Einstein Medical Sc
 DANTO-Rosalyn. On December 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Louis. Devoted mother of Noel and Renee Cohen. Dear mother-in-law of Joseph. Beloved twin sister of Regina Lustbader and Tsipora Eismannroth. Cherished grandmother of Amanda and Michelle Cohen and Gregory and Marisa Danto. A wonderful wom
 DODENHOFF-Susan M. Of Edgewater, NJ on December 11, 1997. Daughter of Richard and Barbara Dodenhoff of Matawan, NJ. Sister of Richard Dodenhoff, II of Oakton, VA and Lee Deverell of Henrietta, NY. She was Editor of Juvenile Merchandising Magazine. Funeral at First Presbyterian Church, Mataw
 FOG-Bobbie. Died in Atlanta on December 12. A sophisticated and urbane woman of great charm and taste. She was our fabulous neighbor and we will always remember her with love. Diane and Arthur Abbey Teddy Reynolds       
 GROSBARD - Helene. Beloved wife of the late Jack Grosbard. Devoted mother of Richard, Michael and Robert Grosbard. Loving grandmother of Erin, Joshua, Lee, Remy, Adam and Rita. Devoted sister to Carola Bien and Bronek Janiszewski. An ardent supporter of The United States Holocaust Memorial 
 HAASE - Mary - Frances. The Board of Directors of Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital note with sorrow the loss of Mary-Frances Haase, former President, longtime Board member and volunteer. Her devotion to patients will long be remembered. We extend sympathy to her family.       
 LAMB-Beatrice Pitney. Wife of the late Horace R. Lamb of New Canaan, Conn, and New York City, died peacefully December 9, 1997, at Meadow Lakes retirement community, Hightstown, N.J. Born in Morristown, N.J., in 1904, she graduated from Westover School, Middlebury, Conn and Bryn Mawr Colleg
 LYONS-Lynne. Resident of New York City and Palm Springs. Daughter of Mary and Charles Lyons. Studied drama at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City and subsequently embarked on international theater tours. The majority of her career was spent as a producer at several noted 
 MANN-Lydia Buhl. On December 10, 1997. Wife of William H. Mann. Mother of Christian A. Melhado and Peter A.B. Melhado. Grandmother of six. Sister of Henry M. Buhl. Memorial Mass at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84 Street, Tuesday, December 16, 11:00AM. In lieu of flowers, contr
 OTTINGER-Louise L. Planned Parenthood of New York City is saddened by the death of longtime friend Louise L. Ottinger. Mrs. Ottinger was a valued and generous supporter of our programs for more than four decades. An ardent advocate for reproductive rights, Mrs. Ottinger was an articulate vo
 RUGG-Dayle R. M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board, and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join the physicians and staff of the Department of Neurology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague Dayle R. Rugg, M.D. Dr. Rugg will be sorely m
 STILLMAN-Marjorie Hodgsdon. Beloved wife of the late Charles L. Stillman, of Southport, died on Tuesday, Dec. 9, 1997 in her home. Mother of Preston H. Peters of Salisbury, CT. Grandmother of Marjorie S. Peters of Alexandria, VA, & stepmother of Louise Lehrman of Greenwich, CT., and Stanley
 VODENLITCH-Fannie. Thursday, December 11, 1997, of Hallandale, FL. Beloved wife of the late Leonidas Vodenlitch. Devoted mother of Nada (Raymond) Scalettar. Adoring grandmother of Lydia, Mark, Lois and Andrew. Cherished great-grandmother of Michael, Alex and Julia. Funeral services Sunday, 
 ZANE-Anna E. Dec. 12, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Ira Zane. Mother of Frances Louie Zane, Eliabeth Zane Malsky, Gloria Zane Gross, and James B. Zane. Survived by her four children, six grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Services Sunday, December 14, at 11:30 A.M., at West 
 REEVES-Minna. It is six years without my most devoted, beautiful, and talented mother. Her unforgettable smile and charming manner were adored by all who met her. She was truly our family's pride and joy, and she is sorely missed.       
 GOLDBERGER-Frances. December 13, 1997, in Nagshead, NC. She is survived by her children Norma and Robert Siegel, Ellen and Ed Anchin; grandchildren Peter and Ellen Siegel, Joanne Siegel, Jeff Kutler, Michael Anchin, Lisa and Stephen Nolan; great-grandchildren Erica and Sarah Siegel, and Sar
 LYONS-Lynne. Resident of New York City and Palm Springs. Daughter of Mary and Charles Lyons. Studied drama at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City and subsequently embarked on international theater tours. The majority of her career was spent as a producer at several noted 
 MANN-Lydia Buhl. On December 10, 1997. Wife of William H. Mann. Mother of Christian A. Melhado and Peter A.B. Melhado. Grandmother of six. Sister of Henry M. Buhl. Memorial Mass at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84 Street, Tuesday, December 16, 11:00AM. In lieu of flowers, contr
 WINNERMAN-Lilli Goldman. Of South Orange, NJ, and Palm Beach, FL. Lilli passed away on December 14, 1997. Lilli (nee Burg) was born in Vienna, Austria, on June 11, 1924. She escaped the Nazis by emigrating to Palestine in 1938. There she worked for the British forces as an ambulance driver 
 REEVES-Minna. It is six years without my most devoted, beautiful, and talented mother. Her unforgettable smile and charming manner were adored by all who met her. She was truly our family's pride and joy, and she is sorely missed.       
 Rosemarie Rogers, a scholar of international migrations and former academic dean at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, died on Nov. 28 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 61. The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husban
 Janet Annenberg Hooker, whose many philanthropies ranged from the support of musical organizations to the redecoration of The White House and the diplomatic rooms of the State Department in Washington, died Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 93 and had 
 ANTIN-Krystyna. On December 14th, 1997. Adored and beloved wife of Sanford P. Antin, M.D. Daughter of Eleonora and the late Emil Hagel. Sister of Ronald and beloved aunt of Christopher, Elizabeth, Michael and Brittany of Vineland, N.J. Funeral Mass will be Tuesday, December 16, 1997 at St. 
 ARNOLD-Mildred. Of Westport, CT on December 14, 1997. In loving memory. Beloved wife of Norman for 56 years. Cherished mother of Charles, Susan and Phyllis. Adored gramma to Joshua, Mason and Isabelle. Mildred had an extraordinary approach to life that she carried to an honorable and dignif
 FOG-Barbara B. Schwartz. Died peacefully December 12 in Atlanta after a year long battle with cancer. She was predeceased by her loving husband Ned and daughter Nina. Bobbi is survived by her very devoted daughter Francesca and son-in-law Dr. William B. Spearman, of Atlanta, her son Randolp
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchildre
 SALMORE-Helen L. Beloved and devoted wife for over fifty-two years of Walter. Dear sister of Murray Lerner. Cherished, adored and loving mother of Evan and Stephen. Devoted proud and admired grandmother of Michael, Paul and Elizabeth. Adored best friend and mother-in-law of Natalie and Barb
 WINNERMAN-Lilli. Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Lilli Winnerman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Robert and their beloved family. Morton West, President Leon Fassler, Secretary 
 ZUNDEL-Kathryn Kemp. Of Edison, New Jersey on December 12, 1997. Devoted wife of Richard R. Zundel. She was a member of the First Presbyterian Church of Metuchen and Metuchen Country Club, and a 1935 graduate of Smith College. Funeral private. For information Costello-Runyon Funeral Home, M
 Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91. A lifelong New Yorker, she had moved to Alexandria in 1982 following a stroke. Mrs. Ke
 CARROLL-Claire Marie. Dec. 14, 1997. Loving daughter of the late Joseph F. and Helen Joyce Carroll of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved sister of Joyce Carroll O'Neil and the late Joseph F. Carroll, Jr and Richard J. Carroll. Beloved aunt of Stephen L. and Pamela Carroll of Jacksonville, FL. She was as
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchildre
 KAPLAN-Charlotte. The Officers, Directors, and staff of the New York City Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association mark with sadness the passing of Charlotte Kaplan, mother of our esteemed fellow Director and friend, Ann Kaplan Fippinger. To Ann, and all of the Kaplan family, we offer our hea
 OCHS-Miriam. The American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem extends its sincerest condolences to Mrs. Tillie Adler, a Founder of the Medical Center, on the loss of her beloved sister. May she and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
 Annette Barbara Weiner, an anthropologist and former dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at New York University, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 64 and also had a residence in Wolcott, Vt. The cause was cancer, her family said. Dr. Weine
 Louise Loewenstein Ottinger, a New York philanthropist who supported the arts, community development and family planning, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 98. Mrs. Ottinger, a Chicago native and a graduate of Smith College, was the matriarch of a New York family prom
 ALLISON-Karen Hubert. On December 16, 1997, 49 yrs old, of breast cancer. It is with great sadness that we mark the loss of our dear friend, Karen, poet, writer, teacher, artist, chef, and loving mother. For thirty years and more, she has so generously shared herself with us and so many oth
 BERMAN-Elizabeth (nee Schleifer). Formerly of New York City. Died in Washington, D.C. December 15, 1997 at the age of 102. Survived by her three daughters and their husbands, Adele and Bernard Rosen, Louise and Charles Davidoff, Norma and William Imershein, seven grandchildren and twelve gr
 CARROLL-Claire Marie. Dec. 14, 1997. Loving daughter of the late Joseph F. and Helen Joyce Carroll of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved sister of Joyce Carroll O'Neil and the late Joseph F. Carroll, Jr and Richard J. Carroll. Beloved aunt of Stephen L. and Pamela Carroll of Jacksonville, FL. She was as
 FEINSTEIN-Anne. December 17, 1997, of Tamarac, FL., formerly of Brooklyn and Teaneck, NJ. Loving wife of Samuel with whom she shared a 57-year marriage and lifelong romance. Adored mother of Richard (Roberta), Paul (Joan) and Robert (Helene) Feinstein. Cherished grandmother of Rikki (fiance
 GAILLARD-Richard. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York wish to express their heartfelt condolences to Jane Gaillard, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors, upon the loss of her beloved father, Richard Gaillard. We extend our profound sympathy at 
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchildre
 KARSON-Paula Zlatin. My sweet sister left us in body on December 14. May her sweet loving spirit and wisdom guide us forever. Thank you, Paula, for all those gifts of love. I will always love you. Your sister, Judith Share       
 KUHN-Michael. Age 95, passed away on December 16, 1997, 17th of Kislev, in White Plains, New York; beloved husband of Gertha; father of Liane Novick, Ralph Kuhn and Eva Stern; grandfather of Stephen, Lisa, Gregg, Adam, Erika, Suzy and Oren; great-grandfather of Jessica, Daniel, Brett and Sa
 LINZER-Estelle. On December 16. Beloved sister of Dulcie and Walter Schackman. Devoted aunt of Paul, Bruce and Daniel Schackman. Respected leader and friend of many in the UN/NGO community throughout her long affiliations with the United Nations Association of the United States and the Elea
 LUXENBERG-Mrs. Queen. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York wish to express their heartfelt condolences to Paula Root, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors, upon the loss of her beloved mother, Mrs. Queen Luxenberg. We extend our profound sympath
 Lillian Disney, the widow of Walt Disney and a prominent patron of the arts, died on Tuesday at her home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles after suffering a stroke on Monday. She was 98. Mrs. Disney, who met Mr. Disney in the 1920's while working at a low-level job at his f
 ALLISON-Karen Hubert. The Writers and Staff of Teachers & Writers Collaborative mourn Karen's death and send condolences to Len and their children. Karen was a gifted writer and exuberant teacher. She was dedicated to the writers - in - the - schools program and in its early days, and her i
 GOLD-Mildred Schneider. Beloved mother of Carol Cohen. Grandmother of Andrew and Mark Cohen, and great-grandmother of Lily Cohen. We will miss her dearly.       
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died on December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchil
 KARSON ZLATIN-Paula. My sweet sister left us in body on December 14. May her sweet loving spirit and wisdom guide us forever. Thank you, Paula, for all those gifts of love. I will always love you. Your sister, Judith Share       
 LINZER-Estelle. The Eleanor Roosevelt Center at Val-Kill (ERVK), Hyde Park, New York, mourns the loss of former Board President Estelle Linzer. She worked and traveled with Eleanor Roosevelt at the American Association for the United Nations (now UNA-USA) from 1953 until Mrs. Roosevelt's de
 ROSS-Donald M. Our sincerest condolences to Laura Hertzig on the sudden death of her longtime friend and companion Don Ross. La Coquille of Westhampton Beach       
 SHARF-Helen. We are saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague and friend. Helen served both the real estate industry and the community with distinction, combining care and wisdom with the highest standards of integrity. Her affection for ''Town & Country'' and its staff was unquestion
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died on December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchil
 HOROWITZ-Nancy, M.D. The officers and members of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine mourns the death of a candidate member of our society, a most promising, thoughtful and dedicated psychoanalyst. We extend our sympathy to her husband and children.       
 NORBAN-Joetta. On December 18, 1997, in New York City, at the age of 83. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Norban. Loving mother of Linda Lane and Wendy Carduner. Devoted grandmother of Lisa, Julie, Stacey, Jason, Marc and Eric. Adoring great-grandmother of Alex, Madison, and her newborn gran
 O'CONNOR-Rochelle. Of East Hampton. December 17, 1997. Age 76. Survived by husband Daniel, children Paul and Madeline and two granddaughters Katherine and Elizabeth. Donations in her memory to East End Hospice Incorporated, Box 1048, Westhampton Beach, N.Y. 11978-7048.       
 PASTER-Frances (nee Kass). On December 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Aaron. Loving mother of Fredi Pomerance and Leslie Slocum. Cherished grandmother of Janice and Yoji Nimura. Beloved sister and aunt. Friends may call Saturday, December 20 7-9PM Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 
 RICH-Harry. The Board of Directors and membership of the National Council of Jewish Women wish to express their heartfelt condolences to our esteemed National President, Nan Rich, on the loss of her father-in-law, Harry Rich of Miami, Florida. We extend our profound sympathy to her husband,
 TABOR-Nancy Anholt. On December 18, 1997, after a valiant struggle. Beloved wife of Bob. Adoring mother of Jessica, Ilene and Seth. Cherished daughter of Bob (Lenore) Anholt and Susanne Anholt. Loving sister of Patricia (Joseph) Habr, dearest aunt to Sebastian. Family will receive friends t
 TORG-Esther Eisen. Wednesday, December 17, 1997 in Orlando, Florida. Beloved wife and sweetheart of the late Arthur. Daughter of Jacob and Adele Eisen. Funeral services on Sunday at 10 A.M., Riverside Memorial, Mount Vernon, New York, ph. (914) 664-6800. She now rests with the fathers.     
 Sally Marr, the mother of the comedian Lenny Bruce and a primary influence on her son's career, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91 and lived in West Hollywood. Although Ms. Marr was mainly known for encouraging her son as a performer, she was herself a p
 Karen Hubert Allison, who with her husband, Len Allison, lived out every cook's fantasy of turning a home into a restaurant and later earned three stars for the establishment, Huberts, in Manhattan, died on Tuesday in Maui, Hawaii. She was 49 and had lived in Maui since 1995. The ca
 BROOKS-Rozanne M., 75. Distinguished Teaching Professor with The State University of New York and retired professor of sociology and anthropology at the Cortland campus, died on Thursday, Dec. 18. Brooks founded the Sociology Department in 1964 and, as chair until 1973, added anthropology t
 DONNELLY-Loretto G. Age 90, formerly of NYC, died December 19, 1997 in Elmira, NY. She is survived by her sister, Anne Maloney of Elmira; several nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by three sisters and brother, Msgr. Thomas J. Donnelly. She was a graduate of the College of Mt. St. Vinc
 HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died on December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchil
 HOROWITZ-Nancy, M.D. The Executive Committee, faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training express our deep sorrow over the untimely death of our colleague, Nancy Horowitz. We send our condolences to her husband Jed and her two children, Gemma 
 LASK-Shirley. On December 18, 1997. Life-long partner and friend of the late Thomas Lask. Loving and accepting mother of Ellen and Martha. Favorite aunt of Sylvia, Bob, and Ron; Nina, Sharon, and Bonnie; Bob; Don and Steve; Joel, David, and Debbie; the late Sidney; and their children, and g
 LINZER-Estelle. The New York Chapter of the United Nations Association is deeply saddened by the passing of longtime Board member and officer Estelle Linzer. With her writings about the origins of UNA, her intimate knowledge of our institution, and her heartfelt conviction about the importa
 NORBAN-Joetta. On December 18, 1997, in New York City, at the age of 83. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Norban. Loving mother of Linda Lane and Wendy Carduner. Devoted grandmother of Lisa, Julie, Stacey, Jason, Marc and Eric. Adoring great-grandmother of Alex, Madison, and her newborn gran
 PASHMAN-Ruth Margulies. At age 86. Widow of the late Henry Margulies and Julius Pashman. Devoted mother of Leah Margulies and the late Ann Dee Goldschmidt. Beloved grandmother of Henry and Carl Goldschmidt and Ryan Margulies. Loving and good friend to stepdaughter, Mona Gross and her son, R
 PASTER-Frances (nee Kass). On December 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Aaron. Loving mother of Fredi Pomerance and Leslie Slocum. Cherished grandmother of Janice and Yoji Nimura. Beloved sister and aunt. Friends may call Saturday, December 20 7-9PM Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 
 TABOR-Nancy Anholt. On December 18, 1997, after a valiant struggle. Beloved wife of Bob. Adoring mother of Jessica, Ilene and Seth. Cherished daughter of Bob (Lenore) Anholt and Susanne Anholt. Loving sister of Patricia (Joseph) Habr, dearest aunt to Sebastian. Family will receive friends t
 Dawn Steel, the first woman to head a major movie studio and who played a prominent role advancing other women to top jobs in Hollywood, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here. She was 51 and lived in Los Angeles. Charles Roven, Ms. Steel's husband, a film producer, sa
 Esther Peterson, a dogged consumer advocate whose work has an impact on Americans every time they buy a can of soup or a box of laundry detergent, died on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 91. Mrs. Peterson served in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnso
 GOODMAN-Shirley A. December 21, 1997, of Somers, NY, formerly of New Rochelle. Was a Womens Air Force Service Pilot during World War II. She was one of the first female air traffic controllers. She was dedicated to her sons and all members of her family. Wife of Jacob. Mother of Martin and 
 HURWITZ-Herbert Samuel, M.D. Of Scarsdale, NY. Died December 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Erika, devoted father of Diana Hurwitz and her husband Jack Miller, and Marietta Hurwitz. Dear brother of Sol. Services Monday, December 22, at 1 PM, at Temple Bet Am Shalom, 295 Soundview Ave, White P
 KASHI-Deborah (Gold). Of Yonkers, New York, wife of Eliahu Kashi, died December 21, 1997. Survived by mother Sedell Gold of West Hartford, CT; two daughters, Amit and Tamar; a brother Ambassador Dore Gold of Jerusalem, Israel's Permanent Representative to the United Nations; a sister Paula 
 KATZ-Judith L. On December 20, 1997. Beloved wife of Arthur. Cherished mother of Deborah Tom and Lisa Waldbaum. Dear sister of Bobby Minsky and Betty Lasker. She was a very special person. A woman of strength, spirit and courage. Services today, 10 AM, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnp
 Denise Levertov, a poet of intense emotion and fervid political conviction, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle, where she lived. She was 74. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said Griselda Ohannessian of New Directions, Ms. Levertov's publisher. As 
 CUMMINGS-Margaret Durkin. Of Bernardsville, New Jersey, on December 17, 1997. She is survived by her daughter Bonnie O'Hara, and two sons Charles P. Durkin, Jr. and Timothy A. Durkin and 7 grandchildren. Funeral services were held in Boca Grande, Florida, on Friday, December 19. Memorial do
 DUFFY-Sr. Cecelia, RSHM. At Marymount Convent, Tarrytown, on December 21, 1997. Beloved daughter of the late Edward and Cecelia Talbot Duffy, loving sister of Marie and Edward Duffy, and the late James and John Duffy. She is also survived by twelve nieces and nephews. Sister Duffy has been 
 LINZER-Estelle. The Board of Directors and Staff of the United Nations Association of the U.S.A. are deeply saddened at the passing of Estelle Linzer, a Vice Chair of the Association. Ms. Linzer was a longtime leader of our Association who worked with Eleanor Roosevelt to build public suppo
 ORNSTEIN-Sara Moore. Ended her journey at home December 20, 1997 surrounded by love. This sweet, generous woman of principle cared about others to her last moments. She is survived by her husband Reuben, adored throughout their 68 years of marriage and loving family, son Martin and daughter
 PETERSON-Esther. Consumers Union, publisher of ''Consumer Reports'' Magazine, mourns the death of Esther Peterson, a great woman, and a great consumer leader and activist. During her entire life, Esther served the public interest: in the women's movement, the labor movement, and the consume
 WALDRON-Sybil Kane Jay. Died Dec. 19, 1997 after a long illness. Wife of William A. Waldron, mother of Sybil Baldwin, Maisie Houghton, Elizabeth Kinnicutt, grandmother of Sarah and Benjamin Baldwin and James and Nina Houghton. She was predeceased by her first husband, Francis P. Kinnicutt. 
 SACHS-Ruth. Happy 70th Birthday 12/23/27-10/14/97 Ruth was a courageous woman who battled brain cancer with dignity and honor, never losing touch with the family and friends who were such an important part of her life. A remarkable mother & grandmother and an incredible friend to so many. A
 Claire Giannini Hoffman, the first woman to serve on the boards of  Bank of America and Sears, Roebuck & Company, died Monday of respiratory failure at her home in San Mateo, Calif., the bank said. She was 92. In 1949 Mrs. Hoffman became a director of the Bank of America, succeeding
 Corinne Roosevelt Alsop Chubb, who helped guide the Victoria Foundation, a family trust that fosters social services, education and the arts in Newark, since its inception in 1934, died on Dec. 9 at her farm in Chester, N.J. She was 85. The Victoria Foundation was established by her
 Marion Bell, who created the leading role of Fiona MacLaren in the original Broadway production of the Alan Jay Lerner-Frederick Loewe musical ''Brigadoon'' in 1947 and then married Mr. Lerner, died on Dec. 14 at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 78 and lived in Culv
 AIN-Ina. Our deepest condolences to our dear friend, Stuart, and the entire family. Her tragic death leaves a void in all our lives. Honie and Jerry Berko       
 ANZEL-Celia. On December 22, 1997. Beloved mother of Phil and Erez (Edward), and husband of the late Irving. Grandmother of Paul, Elana, and Tali; mother-inlaw of Sara and Dorete. Active volunteer in the library, senior groups and playing piano for hospital patients. Her love and talents li
 DORN-Marianne. Age 94. Native of Holland, she passed away December 17th in West Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles since 1939, Marianne was an accomplished opera singer, actress and director. Within her caring and benevolent spirit, she was especially known for her generosity with chari
 LIFFLANDER-May. On December 22, 1997 of Hastings on Hudson, NY at age 92. Beloved wife of late Ben. She is survived by her son Matthew Lifflander, her daughter and son-in-law Nan and Ed Perell, four grandchildren: Stephanie Krause, Clay Lifflander, Justin Lifflander and Tim Perell, and five
 MILES-Frances. 76. Formerly of Manhasset, New York, widow of Edward F. Miles Jr., died of cancer December 22, 1997. She was mother to Mary Jackson, of Raleigh, NC, Edward F. Miles of Alexandria, VA, the late Francine Hyland of Manhasset, NY, Michele Dunn of Wilton, CT, and Christine Miles o
 ALPER-Rhoda Lindner. Born December 29, 1922 in NYC and died Dec. 24, 1997 in NYC. Died of multiple health complications at Lenox Hill Hospital. Rhoda was devoted to her family. She leaves her son, Paul Alper and her daughter Mary Alper McManus. She also leaves 7 grandchildren, Ruth Ann and 
 BARISH-Barbara M., 49. Of Larchmont, NY, on December 24 after a four year battle with metastatic breast cancer. Beloved wife of Stuart. Devoted mother of David and Michael. She also is survived by her mother, Esther Meyer of Scarsdale, and her niece and nephew, Shelley and Brian Barish of J
 KEATS-Judy Ida. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member, Judy Ida Keats, and extend our sincere condolences to the members of her family. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 LAUMONT-Sophie. On December 23. Beloved daughter of Anne and Philippe, sister of Julia and Laura, granddaughter of Colt and Jake Adams, niece of Brooks Adams and Lisa Liebmann and Katie and Nikitas Venizelos, Claude and Edward Janeway Jr, cousin of Kyriaco, Jake, Anna, Emily and Selena Veni
 SHULMAN-Helen D., 79. Of Great Neck on December 23. A light has been extinguished in the lives of her husband, Dr. Bernard Shulman; sons Donald (Paula) and Matthew (Aline); & grandchildren Zara and Jean-Philippe. Funeral at Riverside-Nassau North (Great Neck) at noon, Friday, December 26. I
 Margaret Storrs Grierson, the former archivist of Smith College who built its Sophia Smith Collection into an international research center, died on Dec. 12 at the Linda Manor Extended Care Facility in Leeds, Mass. She was 97. Born in Denver, she graduated from Smith in 1922 and ear
 BARISH-Barbara. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the premature death of our beloved friend and esteemed colleague, Barbara Barish, Vice President, Academic Administration, Mount Sinai School of Medicine. A graduate of the Universit
 CASTELLO-Selma, on December 24, 1997. Loving niece, cousin and friend. Another beautiful person lost to AIDS. We will miss her. Born Canarsie, New York, on July 10, 1957 to Edith Najar Castello and Gaspare Castello. Predeceased by both parents and brother Frank.       
 COOPER-Sylvia Rauch Edelstein, eighty, on December 24th, 1997. Beloved mother of Philip and the late Mary, grandmother of Marcy and Kate, aunt of Jackie, Phyllis, Marty and Ellen. Will be dearly missed by her family and friends. Born in the same year as President Kennedy, 1917, she lived a 
 DEWEY-Grace Muriel. Died in Manchester Center, Vermont, on December 24. She was born in Chicago, Illinois. She worked as a professional singer and dancer. Her professional name was Muriel DeForrest. She moved to New York City when she was offered a contract by Florence Ziegfeld to appear in
 KERMAN-Helen. Of Roslyn Heights, NY, died suddenly on December 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Bertram Kerman, devoted mother of Judythe (Martin Isserlis) and Betsy (Peter Carey). Beloved grandmother of Geoffrey and Shana Carey. Beloved sister of Stanley Gardner (Blossom). She was strong
 LAUMONT-Sophie. On December 23. Beloved daughter of Anne and Philippe, sister of Julia and Laura, granddaughter of Colt and Jake Adams, niece of Brooks Adams and Lisa Liebmann and Katie and Nikitas Venizelos, Claude and Edward Janeway Jr, cousin of Kyriaco, Jake, Anna, Emily and Selena Veni
 MAXWELL-Ella. On Dec. 22, 1997 of Franklin Lakes, NJ. Cherished mother of Vera Maxwell Holder and William R.J. Maxwell. Motherin-law of Andrea Hope Maxwell and Michael D. Holder. She was preceded in death by her husband John Knott Maxwell. Funeral services will be held at St. Bernard's Epis
 Veronica Geng, an accomplished parodist who spun out biting pieces for The New Yorker based on chance remarks by hapless politicians and the banalities of wedding announcements, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said a friend, Barbara Epstein, editor 
 BARISH-Barbara. In memory of our longtime friend and colleague, the Department of Psychiatry mourns the passing of Barbara Barish. Our sincere condolences are extended to her husband Stuart, her children and entire family. In this difficult and sorrowful time our continued support, love and
 FIELDS-Judith. On December 26, 1997. Beloved wife of Norman. Loving mother of Robin and Kenneth. Dear sister of Annette Bloom. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Saturday 6-9PM. Graveside service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, L.I., Sunday 11AM. F
 KERMAN-Helen. Of Roslyn Heights, NY, died suddenly on December 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Bertram Kerman, devoted mother of Judythe (Martin Isserlis) and Betsy (Peter Carey). Beloved grandmother of Geoffrey and Shana Carey. Beloved sister of Stanley Gardner (Blossom). She was strong
 LAUMONT-Sophie. The students, faculty, administrators and Trustees of the Spence School mourn the death of Sophie Laumont, our beloved classmate, student and friend. We cherish our memories of her deep intelligence, her passion for learning, and her extraordinary courage. She revealed in ev
 RANA-Dorothy Allmann. Of Old Brookville. Formerly of Sea Cliff, N.Y. On December 25, 1997. Wife of the late Phil Allmann and the late Guy Rana. Survived by her sister Lois McGee, a brother Donald Brown (Mildred), sister-in-law Milly Brown, son Don Allmann, grandchildren Paul Allmann, Lucie 
 WEINTRAUB-Dr. Ruth G. On December 24, 1997, of Manhattan and Seaview, Fire Island. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Solomon Weintraub. Dear mother of Jon Weintraub and cherished grandmother of Lisa and David Weintraub of Washington, DC. Former Dean of Hunter College and Senior Vice President of
 Ruth G. Weintraub, an early advocate of graduate education for women and a former dean at Hunter College, died Wednesday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. She was 92. Dr. Weintraub, who also kept a home on Fire Island in Seaview, was a professor of political science at Hun
 Dr. Elizabeth B. Keller, a biochemist who made it easier to understand a basic principle of life because she had the insight to see a cloverleaf where others saw only an infinitesimally small strand of the genetic material called RNA, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rocheste
 ADELMAN-Eva. The National Officers, the National Boards and the entire EMUNAH of America family deeply mourns the passing of its Honorary National President, Eva Adelman. She was the founder and first president of World EMUNAH. As a visonary and dynamic leader, she brought our organization 
 DAVIDSON-Adelaide H., of East Orange, N.J. died December 23, 1997 in Brookline, MA. Wife of the late Dr. Henry A. Davidson, she is survived by her son, Larry and his partner Barbara; her daughter, Ellen and her partner Jim; her granddaughters, Hannah and Aviva; her sister, Lillian Brauman a
 FIELDS-Judith. On December 26, 1997. Beloved wife of Norman. Loving mother of Robin and Kenneth. Dear sister of Annette Bloom. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Saturday 6-9PM. Graveside service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, L.I., Sunday 11AM. F
 GINSBERG-Pearl. December 25, 1997. Cherished sister of Racie Sherman, Etta Ginsberg McEwan, Lucille Fisher and Sandra Weinberg. Cherished aunt of many nieces and nephews. She was an outstanding educator. She will be missed.       
 GOODMAN-June Karelsen. Loving wife, mother and grandmother of Danbury, CT on December 26, 1997 following emergency surgery. Born in New York City in 1920 to Frank and Sophie Karelsen. She served on local, state and national boards promoting the arts and education. In 1980 she established th
 HALPERN - Marion. (Mickey). Tuesday, December 23, 1997 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Survived by her husband of fifty four years William, mother of James and Richard, grandmother of Dyer and Hilary. A fashion industry leader in the '40's and '50's, an accomplished poet and author of childrens sto
 HOWARD-Christine A. on December 20, 1997. Christine A. Howard formerly of New York City, died at the age of 94. She is survived by her sister Louise Anderson of New York City, her son Eugene D. Jones, grandchildren Deborah Larson, Dwight Ford, Darryl Williams, Janet Shipp, and Jeff Jones an
 KRAFT-Rose. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Rose Kraft, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 SCHUSTER-Dr. Hilda. Died on December 21st, 1997 after a long illness. She was the former director of the Dalcroze School of Music for 50 years. Friends and colleagues admired and loved her. We are deeply saddened by her death and will carry on the tradition of the Dalcroze work here at the 
 SIMONSON - Mildred (Simone). Age 99, on December 27, 1997, beloved wife of the late Peter, loving mother of Mimi Ganz, Richard, and Harris, dear sister of Lillian, devoted mother-in-law of Stanley Ganz, Dee Simonson and Vicki Simonson, adoring grandmother of Fredda, Larry, Marc, and Nancy, 
 Amanda Pirie Warrington, an equestrian, died yesterday at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del., of injuries she received after falling from her horse while competing at the Fair Hill horse trials in Maryland. She was 29 and lived in Unionville, Pa. Mrs. Warrington was considered  one
 D'ANGELO-Angela, of Bronxville, NY, on December 28, 1997. Wife of the late Nicholas D'Angelo. Mother of Marie D. Leff, Sally Iadavaia and Gloria D. Ingrao; mother-inlaw of Herbert W. Leff. Grandmother of six; great-grandmother of nine. Reposing Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelham
 GOLDSTONE-Lillian (nee Sweet). Died December 27, 1997. We mourn with great sorrow the passing of Lillian Sweet Goldstone. She is survived by her husband, Joshua, daughters Judith Silver, Ronni Leibowitz and Wendy Westwood. Also her sisters Sylvia Goldstone, Frances Frankel and brothers Alex
 HYLAND-Fannie (nee Irwin). On December 27, 1997. Of Newtowngore, Co. Leitrim, Ireland. Loving wife of the late William J. (retired MABSTOA). Beloved mother of Thomas (retired NYPD) and daughter-in-law Victoria. Grandmother of Brian, Alison and James. Also survived by her brother, John Irwin
 WAHRHAFTIG-Paula. The administration, staff, camp committee, and campers of Camp Morasha mourn the passing of Paula Wahrhaftig, beloved mother of our Camp Director, Rabbi Abraham Wahrhaftig. She has been a source of inspiration to her family and friends for all her years. May the family be 
 WEINTRAUB-Dr. Ruth. The Fire Island Synagogue records with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Ruth Weintraub, esteemed member of our Board of Trustees. Her wise counsel was a source of inspiration for us all. Our condolences to her son, John, and grandchildren. Shaul Magid, Rabbi Harry Trattner
 WEISBROD-Hilda. On December 26, 1997, the 53rd anniversary of her marriage to her late, beloved husband, Walter. Cherished mother of Carl and David. Loving grandmother of Alexander, Billy, Chiara, and Gregory. We will remember you always.       
 DUBROFF-Charlotte Weisman. One week short of 103. Cherished wife of the late Dr. Nathan Dubroff. Dear mother of Florence Shelley. Grandmother of Carolyn Shelley LeBel and William Shelley. Great-grandmother of Natasha and Melissa LeBel. A beacon to us all. To celebrate her life, a ceremony o
 KLAUSNER-Bertha Adler. On December 29, 1997 in her 97th year. Beloved and honored wife of the late Edward S. Loving mother of Samuel Z. Klausner and Debora K. Reiser and mother-in-law of Roberta G. Sands and Samuel Reiser. Devoted grandmother of Rina Spence, Jonathan Klausner, Maya Reiser, 
 LEONARD-Sally. Former Executive Secretary to Mayor Beame and Brooklyn Borough President Golden. Sally brought humor and wisdom wherever she went. She was swell. Flowers in lieu of donations please. Services Wednesday at 10 A.M., Kirschenbaum, 1700 Coney Island Avenue.       
 OFFIT-Rhea. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Rhea Offit, mother of Morris W. Offit, a vice president of UJA-Federation of New York and one of our country's outstanding philanthropists. Her dedication to the needy was as passionate as her dev
 SPRINGER - Gertrude (Trude), born April 2, 1929, died on Sunday, December 28, 1997, in a fatal car accident on Route 17 in Orange County. She and her husband were returning from vacation after celebrating their 49th wedding anniversary. Gertrude was a retired special education teacher of vi
 COOK-Jean L. (nee Johnson). Died on Monday, December 29, 1997 in Hackettstown, N.J. Born in Moline, IL. on March 25, 1921. Daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Karl Johnson of Denver. Mrs. Cook was a graduate of the Vogue School of Design, Chicago, IL., and was a designer for Marshall Fields i
 DAVIS-Phillippa Stoute. In Worcester, MA. Dec. 28, at age 76. Formerly of NYC where she was a longtime social worker. Mother of Jennifer Davis Carey of Worcester and Jonathan Nicholson of Allston, MA. Sister of Caroline Richardson of Columbia, MD. Funeral services in Worcester. Memorial don
 EISEN-Florence. Died December 30, 1997 after a long illness. Wife of Milton, deceased. Mother of Cary, Michela and Mark. Service Friday, 1 P.M., Mount Hope Cemetery, Yonkers, New York. EISEN-Florence. Cherished mother of Cary Eisen. She will be missed as deeply as she was loved.    
 FREILICH-Ann. Painter. Died December 28, 1997 in North Adams, MA. Born February 11, 1910 in Czestochowa, Poland. Came to U.S. at age 4. Attended CCNY and Educational Alliance Art School which gave her her first show. Numerous one-person and group shows at the Roko Gallery. Won Childe Hassam
 KAPLAN-Jeanne. Beloved mother and grandmother who died surrounded by those who love her. Her indominateable spirit has rejoined her daughter Nancy in GAN-EDEN. She is survived by her children Cynthia and Bruce Halpern and Kitty and Michael D'Alto and her grandchildren Nancy, Adina, Michael,
 KARATZ-Barbara L. On December 29, 1997. Wife of William W. Karatz and the late V. Theodore Low. Mother of the late Joyce L. Furth. Grandmother of Nicholas, Joshua and Owen Gutfreund. Great grandmother of Charlotte and Willa Gutfreund. Sister of the late Robert R. Lansburgh and Rosalee Leeds
 KETCHAM-Stella. We join together in mourning a woman whose generosity helped shaped the most sophisticated healthcare network on Long Island. As a founder of North Shore University Hospital, Stella Ketcham, along with her husband, Garry, helped to establish a facility that today serves the 
 MAIDENBAUM-Sarah. Beloved wife of the late Harry, loving mother of Elaine and Burt Marsh and Howard and Eppie Maidenbaum. Adored grandmother of David, Joan, Donald and Meg, Debbie, Sue, Jeffrey and Marla, Jody and Michael. Cherished great-grandmother of Adam, Jason, Rebecca, Alan, Andrew, D
 MEYER-Sandra W. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the passing of Sandra W. Meyer, a devoted member of our Association for 15 years, including service as a Director of our Managing Board since 1986. We are deeply grateful for her dedicated commitment to the Metropolitan Ope
 ROONEY-Sr. Mary Melita. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity and elementary school teacher on Dec. 29, 1997. Survived by her sister-in-law, Dorothy, and her cousins, Sr. Angela Rooney, Msgr. Hugh J. Rooney and Ann Rooney. Mass of Christian Burial on Wednesday 9:30 A.M., at the Convent o
 SEIDMAN-Hannah. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and member, Hannah Seidman. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family.       
 SUSSMAN-Cecile. Suddenly and peacefully, at home, on November 25, 1997 in her 90th year. Beloved by daughters JoAnn and Ethel, sisters Dotty and Mickey, companion Pearl, ''granddaughter'' Stacy, sonin-law Jeff, granddaughter Becky, great-grandson Jacob, and Buddy. Loving comrade and widow o
 WILKINSON-Josephine (Colgate). Of Hightstown, NJ, formerly of West Orange, NJ, December 25, at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Wilkinson, mother of Edith Allen of Arlington, MA and Russell Wilkinson of Princeton, New Jersey and New York City. Also survived by 3 grandchildren. Buri
 ZAROFF-Sylvia. On December 30, 1997. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, grandmother, aunt, mother-in-law and sisterin-law. She will always be loved and remembered for the sweet and giving person she was. Services 9:45AM, Thursday, ''Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel'', 114-03 Quee
 Simone Duvalier, who rose from a childhood of poverty and abandonment to become the wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, died of undisclosed causes in a clinic outside Paris on Friday. She was in her mid-80's and had lived in France since being force
