 Molly Ivins, the liberal newspaper columnist who delighted in skewering politicians and interpreting, and mocking, her Texas culture, died yesterday in Austin. She was 62. Ms. Ivins waged a public battle against breast cancer after her diagnosis in 1999. Betsy Moon, her personal ass
 BERSON--Florence. Our deepest sympathies and condolences to our dear friends Diane and Mark, Denise and Mitchell and their family on the loss of Florence. She was a very special mother, grandmother, and friend to all, we will miss her. Abbie, Glenn, Brad, Ken, and Maria Cole.       
 IACONO--Laura Belle Curry Levy, 95, of Fort Lee, NJ, passed away on January 30, 2007. Beloved widow of the late S. Alfred Levy and dearest wife of the late Dominick Iacono. Cherished sister of Nathan Curry. Also surviving are many loving nieces and nephews. Her family and friends who loved 
 STRAUCH--Sylvia. Died January 31, 2007 surrounded by her loving family. Sylvia was married to her soul mate, the late Lee Strauch. She is survived by her adoring daughters, Eileen (Doug Hatch) and Lori (Joel Grossman), her grandchildren, Shanna, Jason, and Jonathan, her loving sisters, Hild
 ZALEWSKI--Becky. We are brokenhearted. Becky's sparkling personality, hopeful outlook and commitment to do her life's work at Legal Aid personify her ideals. We lovingly embrace Mark and their son, Jack Becket Rutkowski. The CUNY School of Law Community.       
 BERRY--Dorothy. Physi cians' home mourns the recent passing of our dear friend and fellow Board member, Mrs. Dorothy Berry. We prayerfully remember her zeal and kindness in all that she did. J. Cleary, M.D., President       
 DAVIDSON--Roberta, of Marlboro, New Jersey formerly of Plainview, NY, on January 31st, 2007. Loving devoted wife of Ruben. Cherished mother of Leslie (Kenneth) and David (Donna). Kvelling adoring grandmother of Paige, Brennan, Daniel and Rachel. Also survived by sisters Charlotte and Cather
 DIETZ--Irmgard, peacefully at home on February 1, at the age of 101. Beloved wife of the late George. Survived by many caring neighbors, friends, nieces, nephews, and cousins. Donations in her memory may be made to The Nature Conservancy in Arlington, VA. Visitation at the Park Funeral Home
 GREENBERG--Lynne. Lynne was born on October 16th, 1964 and passed away quietly after a courageous battle against Melanoma on January 31st, 2007. Lynne was a devoted and loving mother, wife, daughter, sister, and friend. She had a successful career in sports and event marketing with Millspor
 IVINS--Molly. The American Civil Liberties Union and the ACLU of Texas deeply mourn the passing of longtime ACLU friend and legendary columnist, Molly Ivins. Ivins was a much-loved member of the ACLU family and highly respected for her staunch commitment to the protection of civil liberties
 MacDONALD--Sheila Gleeson, February 1, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and Southbury, CT. Born November 25, 1917, Bronx, NY. Beloved wife of the late Gordon. Sheila was a retired Vice President of Grolier Inc. and enjoyed a long and eventful life of travel and professional success. She is survive
 MILLMAN--Denise (nee Fruchtman), 60, on Monday January 29, 2007 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was a resident of Teaneck, NJ, and is survived by daughter Natasha Millman Fitterman and sonin-law David, brother Irving Fruchtman, sister Joyce Kupfer and predeceased by brother Jack Fruchtman. Servi
 SANDERS--Adele, (nee Kotcher) Born February 16, 1917. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Andra D. Sanders and Linda (Stephen) Murray. Adored grandmother of Gordon and Cara Murray. Cherished sister of Ruth (Eugene) Steinberg. Treasured cousin of Bede Atlas. Loving, gentle, kin
 ROSENBERG--Murray I. 8/1/ 23-2/2/06. From the Mutual Friends of Murray I. Rosenberg: Big Mur, not a day goes by without you in our thoughts. You are still our rock. Give Sandy a hug from us all. We miss her too       
 KADAR--Barbara A., passed away Friday February 2, 2007. She was the devoted wife of the late Dr. Laszlo Kadar and loving mother of Anita (Les) Rothenberg and Judy Kadar. She is also survived by three grandchildren. A 9:45am service is scheduled for Sunday at the George T Davis Funeral Home,
 LEIBMAN--Frances, died on Friday, February 2 2007, at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on March 27, 1915, and attended the Fieldston School and Wheaton College in Norton, MA. The daughter of the late Morris and Irma Moskin, Frances was married in 1937 to
 SACKS--Evelyn (nee Kahn) Beloved wife of Saul. Devoted mother of William (Katy), Philip, Harry (Sandra), and Julie. Adored grandmother of Emma, Malcolm, Jared, and Kyle. Dear sister of Lee Kuhn and the late Kate, Julius, and Betty. A graduate of Brooklyn College and the Mount Sinai School o
 SANDERS--Adele, (nee Kotcher) Born February 16, 1917. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Andra D. Sanders and Linda (Stephen) Murray. Adored grandmother of Gordon and Cara Murray. Cherished sister of Ruth (Eugene) Steinberg. Treasured cousin of Bede Atlas. Loving, gentle, kin
 SHEETS--Niki Singer, of Manhattan. The beautiful, smart, charming, graceful, elegant, strong, loving wife of Michael Sheets, wonderful mother of Romaine and Nicholas Sheets, devoted step-mother of Alexandra Sheets Saikley and Hilarie M. Sheets, and deeply caring sister of Donna Lawrence and
 DUNNIGAN--Margaret B. on January 22, 2007, sister of Catherine Snow. A Memorial Service will be held on Sunday, February 4, 12 pm at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave. (at 20th Street), NYC. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Isadora Duncan Foundation for Contemporary Dance, 141
 Elizabeth Tashjian, who debated whether she was a nut culturist or a nut artist, but was indisputably, well, nuts enough about nuts to win fame (but not fortune) as matriarch of the Nut Museum in Old Lyme, Conn., died last Sunday in Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 94. Ms. Tashjian hated
 ASCHEIM--Esther Faust. Dearly beloved lady, 99, on 18 January 2007. Husband Burt, son Skip predeceased her. Daughter Barbara Effron of NYC, son Cappy of Pittsburgh, granddaughter, two great-grandchildren, nephew survive her. We miss her.       
 ATWOOD--Margaret Parkhurst, of Lake Wales, Florida died on January 31, 2007. She was the daughter of Clarence D. Buckpitt and Ada May Argue. She was a graduate of the National Cathedral School. She was the beloved wife of the late Rawson Atwood, devoted mother of Joan A. Kunzelmann of New Y
 FIORATO--Joelyn Littauer Scott Gilchrist, the first woman film critic for the New York Times, writer, best selling cookbook author and newspaper columnist of Southport, CT, and Martha's Vineyard, MA, formerly of New York City and East Hampton, NY, lost her battle with cancer on January 25. 
 KRAMER--Esther (nee Weinstock) of New York died on January 29th after an illness. She was 84 years old. As a young bride coming to America from wartime Belgium where she survived the second World War in hiding, she worked on a variety of projects to ensure equality in her new country, inclu
 LAWRENCE--Selma K. died peacefully January 31st at Scripps Mercy Hospital, Chula Vista, CA, after a short illness. She is survived by her husband, Roy B. Lawrence, daughter, Pamela Lawrence, son, Dr. Donald Lawrence, grandsons, Daniel, Julian, and Elijah Lawrence. Also survived by brothers,
 LEIBMAN--Frances, died on Friday, February 2 2007, at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on March 27, 1915, and attended the Fieldston School and Wheaton College in Norton, MA. The daughter of the late Morris and Irma Moskin, Frances was married in 1937 to
 MASLOW--Natalie Salwen, on January 27th, 2007. Devoted mother of Jane and the late Jimmy, and dear grandmother of Jamie. A loyal and caring friend and loving mother. A woman of great beauty and intellect. A unique lady among women who rose to great heights in all her endeavors. Funeral serv
 MILLER--Yvette. The employees of Gruner + Jahr USA are deeply saddened by the loss of our wonderful General Counsel, Yvette. We will all miss her wise advise, her grace under pressure and her elegance. Our condolences to her loving husband, Kenneth and her family which she adored so much. A
 NYDORF--Ida Berger, 89, of Queens, NY. Passed away suddenly on January 29, 2007. Beloved wife of Melvin Nydorf, loving mother of Charles and Jean and mother-in-law of Elinor and Alan, proud grandmother of Benjamin and David. She will be sorely missed by all the family and friends who loved 
 SANDERS--Adele, (nee Kotcher) Born February 16, 1917. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Andra D. Sanders and Linda (Stephen) Murray. Adored grandmother of Gordon and Cara Murray. Cherished sister of Ruth (Eugene) Steinberg. Treasured cousin of Bede Atlas. Loving, gentle, kin
 SCHEER--Bessie Lerner, 96 years old, long time upper west side resident died January 28th, 2007. She was a kind, loving, practical person who shared her love for intellect, life, and art with her family, co-workers at Bronx Hospital, and her friends. Her strong constitution was matched only
 SHEETS--Niki Singer, of Manhattan. The beautiful, smart, charming, graceful, elegant, strong, loving wife of Michael Sheets, wonderful mother of Romaine and Nicholas Sheets, devoted step-mother of Alexandra Sheets Saikley and Hilarie M. Sheets, and deeply caring sister of Donna Lawrence and
 VAN NESS--Joan L. On January 31, 2007, at age 83, beloved wife of Stephen A. Van Ness. Loving aunt of Debbie St. Amand, Karen Weiskittel, David Ogden and William Ogden. A mass in her memory will be held on Saturday, February 10, 2:30 pm at Epiphany Church, 22nd St and 2nd Ave., NYC.       
 JOFFE--Helen Gewertz. 1930-1997, 10 years her memory is a blessing. Love, Joanna and Ted.       
 ANDERSON--Martha B. Episcopal priest, pediatric nurse practitioner, and long time advocate for social justice died on Tuesday, January 30. The cause was Burkett Lymphoma. She is survived by her husband, John Vogelsang, and their six children and grandchildren. A memorial service will be hel
 HALKIN--Cyrille R. M.D., 84, amazing mother of Rose and Scott Schwartz, and Scott's partner, Dr. Mary Belmont. Beloved pediatrician and spiritual counselor to generations of New Yorkers. Graduate of Hunter High School, University of Michigan, and NY Medical College (1945), past president of
 SHEETS--Niki Singer, of Manhattan. The beautiful, smart, charming, graceful, elegant, strong, loving wife of Michael Sheets, wonderful mother of Romaine and Nicholas Sheets, devoted step-mother of Alexandra Sheets Saikley and Hilarie M. Sheets, and deeply caring sister of Donna Lawrence and
 Barbara McNair, a cabaret singer, actress and television personality of the 1960s who was noted as much for her stunning appearance as for her versatile voice, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. She was 72. The cause was throat cancer, Ms. McNair's sister, Jacqueline Gaither, told The A
 APPLETON--Myra Magid, 72, on January 27 in NYC. Gifted editor, writer, gracious and generous friend and loving companion to her husband John J. Appleton, who predeceased her by one year. Survived by numerous in-laws, cousins, nephews, nieces and godchildren. A memorial service to be held Fe
 BAIN--Fay, died Saturday, February 3rd, 2007, at her home. Devoted to her sons and beloved stepmother, sister and executive, she is known especially for the renowned bed and breakfast she created on Cape Cod after her retirement as a Maidenform VP. A vital personality, those close to her wi
 HALKIN--Cyrille R. M.D., 84, amazing mother of Rose and Scott Schwartz, and Scott's partner, Dr. Mary Belmont. Beloved pediatrician and spiritual counselor to generations of New Yorkers. Graduate of Hunter High School, University of Michigan, and NY Medical College (1945), past president of
 KALISH--Janet. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System mourns the passing of Janet Kalish, wife of our long-time trustee, Arthur Kalish. We extend our most sincere condolences to her entire family, including her son Philip and his wife Nancy of Forest Hills, daughter Pamela C
 KREISBERG--Luisa. We mourn the passing of our dear Luisa and celebrate her life. She was a passionate and persuasive advocate for the arts, a thoughtful and creative advisor, a generous mentor, and great friend. We offer our love and support to her family at this very sad time. Claire Whitt
 MORRIS--Sylvia, died on February 4, 2007 at her home in Great Neck, NY after a long and courageous battle against cancer. She was born in Brooklyn on July 13, 1925 and attended Brooklyn College and the University of Pennsylvania. The daughter of the late Hyman and Mae Kravchick, Sylvia is s
 RELKIN--Marjorie, on February 4, 2007 after a heroic 22 year struggle with breast cancer. Beloved wife of Joseph Relkin, devoted mother of Abbie and Ellen Relkin and mother-in-law of Alan Burg and Alan Rojer and cherished grandmother of Alexander and Elizabeth Burg and Rebecca, Isaac and Au
 SEIDMAN--Arline (nee Sesky), of Hackensack, formerly of Teaneck, NJ, on February 5. Beloved wife of Bernard; devoted mother of Abbe Greenberg of Teaneck, Steven Seidman of Hackensack and Joseph Seidman of Wallington; sister of the late Karen Proper; devoted grandmother of Autumn Seidman, an
 SUN--Barbara Y. Haverford, PA, on January 30, 2007. Born in 1915 in Berlin, where her father W.W. Yen was serving as Chinese Ambassador to Germany. She graduated from Mt. Holyoke in 1938 and received an MA from Columbia. She worked for many years as a librarian at Queens College and Vassar.
 WEINSTEIN--Wallace. The R.O.M.E.O. Club of New York mourns the passing of a founding member. We will miss Wally's wisdom, warmth and wit at our monthly luncheons. Our deepest sympathy goes to Ellie and her family. Stu, Lester, Ray       
 VAN NORSTRAND--Julia Eaton. Surrounded by family, passed away peacefully at her home in New York City on February 5th. She was 82 years old. Known to family and friends as Judy, she had a full and happy life that began with a fashion career in the 1940s and 50s for such famous designers as 
 GRUSKIN--Beatrice, passed away peacefully at age 94. She received her undergraduate and law degrees from New York University and was one of only five women in her law school graduating class. She will be greatly missed by her friends and family.       
 KREISBERG--Luisa. We mourn the passing of our dear Luisa and celebrate her life. She was a passionate and persuasive advocate for the arts, a thoughtful and creative advisor, a generous mentor, and great friend. We offer our love and support to her family at this very sad time. Claire Whitt
 LEVY--Jeanette, 104, of Manhattan, on February 5th, 2007. Loving mother of Susan and mother-in-law of Elaine, devoted grandmother of Annie Sandin and Josh Levy. Predeceased by her son Roy, and her husband Irwin. Funeral Wednesday, at 11am, at the Beth David Cemetery in Elmont, New York.    
 SULLIVAN--Ellen Age 59, died last Thursday from diabetic complications in the high plains town of Wray, CO, while traveling cross-country. Ellen was a resident of Milford, PA, but spent much of her life in Wantagh, NY. She most recently held the position of Vice President of Operations Risk
 VAN NOSTRAND--Judy. A beautiful lady, gracious hostess, devoted wife, mother and grandmother, patron of the arts. Her dedication and leadership as a volunteer fund raiser for the Lighthouse International was exceptional as was her strength and courage in her final battle with cancer. This t
 Willye B. White, who willed her way out of the Mississippi Delta cotton fields and became the first American track and field athlete to compete in five Olympics, died yesterday in Chicago. She was 67. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sarah Armantrout, a longtime friend.        
 BOSELLY--Marjorie Ruth, 80, of Venice, FL, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died January 17, 2007. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Smith College and M.A. from Columbia University; she studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, France. She was an administrative assistant to the Chairman of the Socony-Mobil Oi
 GRUSKIN--Beatrice, passed away peacefully at age 94. She received her undergraduate and law degrees from New York University and was one of only five women in her law school graduating class. She will be greatly missed by her friends and family.       
 KREISBERG--Luisa, peacefully on February 1, 2007 in Berkeley, California. Beloved wife of the late Barrett Kreisberg. Loving mother of Joel and the late Seth. Dear mother-in-law of Irma Gonzalez and Jennifer Cobb. Doting grandmother of Daniel, Gabriel and Rebecca GonzalezKreisberg and Jerem
 SCHLEICHER--Ellen Marsh, August 2, 1932 to February 6, 2007. Our dear Ellen, loving wife to Barret T. Schleicher and mother to David M. Schleicher and Mark A.D. Schleicher. Painting and drawing were her passions. She studied under Xavier Gonzalez and Don Stacy. She exhibited her work in New
 VAN NOSTRAND--Judy. The Board of Directors of the Isabel O'Neil Foundation and the members of the Isabel O'Neil Studio Workshop are deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow Board member, teacher and beloved friend. She was a founding Board member, generous supporter and avid painter for ov
 COLEMAN--Joan Donovan, on February 7, 2007. Nurse, author and Lady of Charity. Beloved wife of the late John A. Coleman Jr. Loving mother of John A. Coleman III. Family will receive friends on Friday, 5-8 pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Funeral Mass Saturday 9:30 am at
 CURRY--Lorraine Vocco, on February 7, 2007 in Palm Beach, Florida. Born in Chicago, Illinois, November 15, 1918. Adored wife of Bernard for 59 years. Beloved mother of Catherine Curry, grandmother of Elizabeth Curry Gil and mother-in-law of Andres V. Gil, all of New York City. Treasured fri
 GOODMAN--Edith (nee Rosen), December 30, 2006, beloved wife of the late Nathaniel Goodman; dear mother of Gary (Susan) of Brookville, NY and Robert (Jennifer) Goodman of Seattle, WA; loving grandmother of Max, Jonah, William, Zachary, Holden, Genevieve and Grace Goodman. Donations in her me
 KLEIN--Florence, age 92, passed away on February 7, 2007. Beloved by all who knew her for her strength, charm, wisdom and generous spirit. Beloved wife of late William. Devoted mother of Elliot and the late Daniel. Cherished grandmother of Vanessa and Wendy. Loving aunt of Susan Ross, Stefa
 KREISBERG--Luisa. The Board of Directors of The Studio in a School Association mourns the passing on February 1, 2007, of their former colleague and friend. As a Board member, Luisa devoted her time and talents in support of Studios visual arts programs for children in NYC. We extend our de
 TURIEL--Mathilde. Congregation Shearith Israel, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 LAMONT-CIVELLO--Elaine, of Bellerose on February 7, 2007. Devoted wife of Vincent. Loving mother of Amanda. Dear sister of Faith Golub. She will be missed by all who knew her. Friends may call Sunday 2-5 and 79:30 PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 29 Atlantic Ave., Floral Park (At RR
 Harriett Woods, who started in politics by protesting a rattling manhole cover and went on to become the first woman to win statewide office in Missouri before leading a national effort to promote women as candidates, died on Thursday at her home in University City, Mo. She was 79. 
 de KAY--Barbara Scott. Beloved wife of the late, Ormonde de Kay, mother of Thomas de Kay, Lenore Madeleine and Philip Roosevelt, sister of Lael French Scott, grandmother of Maxwell, Daniel and Margaret Roosevelt. Born in Seattle on August 15, 1928, she set out for New York City at 20 and ma
 HALKIN--Cyrille, M.D. Lenox Hill Hospital expresses profound sorrow at the passing of Dr. Cyrille R. Halkin, an esteemed member of our Department of Pediatrics for almost 30 years. A warm and dedicated physician and role model, she was beloved by her colleagues, patients and their families 
 LEDERMAN--Marilyn, February 9, 2007, beloved wife of the late Paul Lederman. Her charm, vivacity, and laughter will be deeply missed by daughters Nancy, Sherri and Loren, sons in law, Seth and Richard, and grandchildren, Samantha, Derek, Bobby, Daniel, Eliana and Gavriel. Service's Monday 1
 MALLESCH--Eileen J. of Central Islip, L.I. passed away peacefully at her home on February 8, 2007. Beloved wife of Richard H. Mallesch. Loving mother of Eileen A. Mallesch, Richard J. Mallesch, Joanne M. Mallesch, Christine Lamm, Kathleen Hannigan, the late Stephen Mallesch and Mary Mallesc
 MELTON--Florence. The Jewish Theological Seminary mourns the passing of Florence Melton, a passionate and outspoken advocate for Jewish education. She, along with her husband Samuel, was a pioneer in developing new approaches to Jewish education, establishing the Melton Research Center for 
 PARIS--Viviane. Dear friend, we love and miss you. You will always be in our hearts. Roberta and Ricky $(6$)PARIS--Viviane. A very special person, a very special friend. Rebecca & John Steindecker $(6$)PARIS--Viviane. Beloved wife of the late Ira. After a long courageous bat
 PICKEL--Rose. Dear wife of the late Carol Pickel, mother of Anne and Gideon Patt and Renee and Alex Monro, sister of Gerry Meyers and grandmother of Daniel and Jodi, Doron and Debbie, and Efi and Marion Patt and their children, and best friend of Francisca Aguilar. She was loved and admired
 ROSENBERG--Libby, 75, not old by current standards but old enough to be loved by everyone who knew her. Leaves husband Harvey; sons David (Francine) and Joseph (Jennifer); grandchildren Max, Alana, Jacob, Jack and Joshua; sister Francine (Saul); brother Stanley (Deborah); sister-in-law Rhod
 BRAID--Eva Ginsberg, beloved wife of Robert died at age 43 on January 31, 2007 after a year long battle with cancer. She was Business Development Manager at Duane Morris and previously at Ropes and Gray. In lieu of flowers, send contributions to UCSF Foundation, Attention: Molly Simms, Box 
 BROOKS--Tatiana (Tanya) Widrin Sheedy, of Palm Beach, New York and Southampton, 86, died February 1, 2007. Tatiana Widrin was born in San Francisco, daughter of Mark Widrin and Ella Foote. She was a print model in Los Angeles and served in the Women's Air Raid Defense (WARD) in Oahu, Hawaii
 CURRY--Lorraine Vocco, on February 7, 2007 in Palm Beach, Florida. Born in Chicago, Illinois, November 15, 1918. Adored wife of Bernard for 59 years. Beloved mother of Catherine Curry, grandmother of Elizabeth Curry Gil and mother-in-law of Andres V. Gil, all of New York City. Treasured fri
 de KAY--Barbara Scott. Beloved wife of the late, Ormonde de Kay, mother of Thomas de Kay, Lenore Madeleine and Philip Roosevelt, sister of Lael French Scott, grandmother of Maxwell, Daniel and Margaret Roosevelt. Born in Seattle on August 15, 1928, she set out for New York City at 20 and ma
 GREIFINGER--Selma, on February 6, 2007. Survived by her family and friends around the world.       
 JOHNSTONE--Janet Olcott, a 33-year resident of Pt. Manalapan, FL, passed away on February 8th, 2007, of heart failure. Mrs. Johnstone was the daughter of the late Rita Olcott and the well-known Irish tenor Chauncey Olcott. Mr. Olcott was the performing artist and composer of a number of Iri
 KLEIN--Florence, age 92, on February 7, 2007. Beloved by all who knew her for her strength, charm, wisdom and generous spirit. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted mother of Elliot and the late Daniel. Cherished grandmother of Vanessa and Wendy. Loving aunt of Susan Ross, Stefanie Schi
 KOROSTOFF--Edythe, 82, of New York City, died peacefully on February 10, 2007. Beloved wife of Norman. Adored by her daughter Jill and her husband Richard McCallum and her son Jeffrey and his wife Nitza Hidalgo. Loved by the families of Santiago Soto III and Jason Soto. Her generosity of sp
 KRAMAN--Esther (nee Weinstock) of New York died on January 29th after an illness. She was 84 years old. As a young bride coming to America from wartime Belgium where she survived the second World War in hiding, she worked on a variety of projects to ensure equality in her new country, inclu
 LEDERMAN--Marilyn, February 9, 2007, beloved wife of the late Paul Lederman. Her charm, vivacity, and laughter will be deeply missed by daughters Nancy, Sherri and Loren, sons in law, Seth and Richard, and grandchildren, Samantha, Derek, Bobby, Daniel, Eliana and Gavriel. Service's Monday 1
 LOBELL--Eleanor, on January 15. Beloved daughter of the late Bernard and Sarah, sister of Joseph and Lillian. A devoted aunt and cherished cousin, she was treasured by Edna, Eric, Alan, Jane, all her family, and her many friends who knew her for her kindness, generosity, quiet strength, fid
 MELTON--Florence. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of our dear friend Florence Melton, a passionate advocate for Jewish education. Her love of Israel and the Jewish people is reflected in every aspect of her distin
 PANKEN--Ethel J. Beloved wife of Dr. Irving J. Panken, mother of Wendy, Kathy and Eric, grandmother of Ben, Becky, Evan, Adam and Daniel, mother-in-law of Andy and Michelle, died peacefully February 6, 2007, after a long illness. Ethel was known by her wonderful laugh and commitment to her 
 PARIS--Viviane. Dear friend, we love and miss you. You will always be in our hearts. Roberta and Ricky $(6$)PARIS--Viviane. Beloved wife of the late Ira. After a long courageous battle with scleroderma. Devoted mother of Nicole and Douglas Rubens, adoring grandmother of Alexa, Julia
 RIEUR--Gertrude. Beloved wife of the late Charles Rieur passed away February 10, 2007 at the age of 98. She was the loving mother of Mina and Stephen Weiner and Raquel and Lear Levin; adored grandmother of Karen and Charles Goss, James and Amy Weiner, Amelia and Eliot Relles and Zachary and
 SHAPIRO--Selma, of NYC passed to her rest February 4, 2007. You fought the good fight, finished the race, and kept the faith. Your friends miss you.       
 THACHER--Barbara Auchincloss. 88, February 1, 2007 of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT and North Haven, ME. Wife of Thomas Thacher (deceased 2004) for 62 years and mother of six children, Barbara Thacher Plimpton (Brooklyn, NY), Elizabeth Thacher Hawn (Orono, MN), Thomas D. II (Bedford, NY), H
 LAMONT-CIVELLO--Elaine, of Bellerose on February 7, 2007. Devoted wife of Vincent. Loving mother of Amanda. Dear sister of Faith Norwick. She will be missed by all who knew her. Friends may call Sunday 2-5 and 79:30 PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 29 Atlantic Ave., Floral Park (At 
 BOSNIAK--Dr. Stephen. The Trustees and Staff of the NYC Police Foundation send our heartfelt condolences to our dedicated Board Member, Beth Rudin DeWoody, on the passing of her partner, Stephen Bosniak. Our thoughts are with her during this difficult time. Valerie Salembier, Chair Pamela D
 DE KAY--Barbara Scott. Beloved wife of the late Ormonde de Kay, mother of Thomas de Kay, Lenore Madeleine and Philip Roosevelt, sister of Lael French Scott, grandmother of Maxwell, Daniel and Margaret Roosevelt. Born in Seattle on August 15, 1928, she set out for New York City at 20 and mad
 GREEN--Florence Miron. Jerry, Helaine and Judy sadly announce the death of Flossie, Smith College 1926, on February 7th, at age 100. Born June 1, 1906 in Elizabeth, wife of Max (2001); grandmother of Laurie, Andrea, Serena, Claudia and Adriana; greatgrandmother of six. Her love of books, jo
 HASTINGS--Marion, 94, on January 16, 2007. She lived in Heath Village, Hackettstown, NJ. The widow of Ross Hastings who was a composer and conductor. She was a secretary in the law department of the New York Life Insurance Company. She will be truly missed by her friends and family.       
 HECKER--Anita Schein, beloved wife of the late Henry R Hecker, mother of Emily Jill (Stephen), and Robby Scott, sister of Jerald, passed away peacefully at home early Sunday morning. She taught for many years, most recently at Midtown West. Services on Tuesday February 13, at 11:30am at Eas
 MURPHY--Lee Chilton (Romero). Long time resident of Pelham Manor and Momaroneck died on February 9, 2007. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Austin S. Murphy, her sister Trudy Ferguson, of Ringgold, Virginia, her son Thomas Romero, daughter - in - law Kimberly Romero and twin granddaughter
 TAUB--Blanche Y. L., Beloved wife of the late Daniel A. Taub, loving mother of Larry and Iven, mother-inlaw of Laurel Taub and Diane Duckler, grandmother of Celia, Sam, Keri and Emily. She was an accomplished artist and bridge player who had the desire to earn her MBA while in her 50's. She
 THACHER--Barbara Auchincloss. 88, February 1, 2007 of Riverdale, NY, New Canaan, CT and North Haven, ME. Wife of Thomas Thacher (deceased 2004) for 62 years and mother of six children, Barbara Thacher Plimpton (Brooklyn, NY), Elizabeth Thacher Hawn (Orono, MN), Thomas D. II (Bedford, NY), H
 Jeannette Ordman, a South African-born dancer and teacher who headed the Bat-Dor Dance Company, one of Israel's most important contemporary-dance organizations, died on Wednesday in Tel Aviv. The cause was a heart attack, said Kenneth Mason, Bat-Dor's former company manager. The Con
 GROSSMAN--Lillian. The trustees, staff and volunteers of The Jewish Museum are saddened by the loss of Lillian Sharasheff Grossman, beloved mother of the Museum's director Joan Rosenbaum. We send our love to Joan and our sincere sympathies to Mrs. Grossman's devoted husband, Charles, and to
 GROVES--Pauline Spencer, passed away on January 30, 2007, wife of Samuel A. Groves, is survived by daughter, Nancy Groves, daughterin-law Linda S. Groves, granddaughter Ceaira Groves, brother Frank N. Spencer, sister Jane S. Burke as well as 16 nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by son
 PARIS--Viviane. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Viviane Paris, beloved wife of the late Ira Paris. Her generous commitment to the New York Jewish community has strengthened our ability to help us care for millions around the wor
 THACHER--Barbara Auchincloss. The Board of Directors and the Staff of Leake and Watts Services, Inc. note with deep sadness the death of Barbara Auchincloss Thacher, a truly exceptional lady who honored Leake and Watts Services, Inc. as a past chair of our Board of Directors. During her mor
 WARD--Mary Sangigian, died Tuesday evening, January 23, 2007, at her residence in Ithaca, NY. She was 95. Donations to Southern Poverty Law Center, Atlanta, GA. Condolences may be sent to daughter: Ms. Elise Virginia Ward, POB 566, New York, NY 10027-0566.       
 Florence Zacks Melton, who took a material invented as a helmet liner for World War II tank crewmen and turned it into cushy foam-rubber slippers that have soothed billions of tired feet and have been a familiar gift for four decades, died Jan. 8 near her home in Boca Raton, Fla. She was 95
 AWN--Isabel A., 90, on February 13, 2007. Of Florham Park, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Elias J. Awn. Loving mother of Claudette A. Maraziti of Chatham, NJ, Dr. Peter J. Awn of Manhattan, Louise E. Crowley of New Milford, CT, and the late Richard P. Awn. Devoted gr
 BOSNIAK--Dr. Stephen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Dr. Stephen Bosniak, beloved fiance of Beth Rudin DeWoody. The Rudin family has long expressed their devotion to social and humanitarian causes through exc
 FEINBERG--Ceil. Died peacefully at her home in Palm Beach on February 12. Born in Russia, she came to this country at the age of eight and created an extraordinary life with her late husband Peter. She is survived by loving sons David and Michael, devoted daughters-in-law Carol and Ann, che
 HEIDE--Eleanor Halligan (nee Mulhearn), wife of the late candy maker, passed away February 10, 2007, surrounded by family and friends at St. Joseph's Hospital, Tampa, FL. She is survived by her sister Therese Bailey, her son Thomas R. Heide and wife Jennifer, daughter Dr. Kathleen M. Heide,
 MYERS--Irene (nee Braverman), age 88, on February 12, 2007. Beloved wife, mother, sister, aunt, cousin, friend. ''She brightened the corner were she was. ''       
 ROSENFELD--Ruth -Devoted wife to Herbert Rosenfeld and the late Frank Reisch. Adoring mother to Marc, Alan Reisch and daughtersin-law Rose Mary and Judith Dean, stepmother of Susan Schulman. Loving grandmother of six and cherished great-grandmother of four. Former Vice President of the Wome
 THACHER--Barbara Auchincloss. The community and friends of Teachers College, Columbia University note with sadness the passing of Barbara Auchincloss Thacher, alumna, Trustee Emerita, former Vice Chair of the New York City Board of Education, and recipient in 1992 of the College's Cleveland
 WALLY--Lynn, passed away on February 11, 2007 following a brief illness. Born in New York City, she married the late and dearly beloved Edward S. Wally M.D. They shared many wonderful and exciting years together. Survivors include her devoted children, Douglas Wally, Margo Wally Zbar, son-i
 Hortense Kooluris, a longtime performer, teacher and lecturer on Isadora Duncan and her dances and the last surviving early exponent of Duncan's art, died on Feb. 8 at her home in Stuart, Fla. She was 92. Her death was confirmed by Michael Gotkin, a cousin. Ms. Kooluris was 
 AWN--Isabel A., 90, on February 13, 2007. Of Florham Park, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Elias J. Awn. Loving mother of Claudette A. Maraziti of Chatham, NJ, Dr. Peter J. Awn of Manhattan, Louise E. Crowley of New Milford, CT, and the late Richard P. Awn. Devoted gr
 BIRCH--Patti Cadby. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Honorary Trustee Patti Cadby Birch. Patti joined the MoMA Board of Trustees in 1995 and was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1998. During her tenure at the Museum, Patti served with dedication as a mem
 FEINBERG--Ceil. ABS Partners Real Estate extend our most genuine and sincere sympathies to David and Michael Feinberg and family on the passing of their beloved mother and grandmother, Ceil Feinberg. Ceil was a woman of great wisdom and understanding, a woman of true grace and valor. Earle 
 HEIDE--Eleanor Halligan (nee Mulhearn), wife of the late candy maker, passed away February 10, 2007, surrounded by family and friends at St. Joseph's Hospital, Tampa, FL. She is survived by her sister Therese Bailey, her son Thomas R. Heide and wife Jennifer, daughter Dr. Kathleen M. Heide,
 KALVIN--Florence I. A long time resident of White Plains, NY, passed away on February 11, 2007, in Lincolnshire, IL. Partner/Owner of Instant Replay. Harrison, NY, from 1975-2000. Beloved wife of the late Harold, attorney, brother of Dr. Ira Cohen, loving mother of Richard and Dr. Douglas K
 KIET--Amelia (Amy) Varney. Passed away suddenly on February 9. She had resided in NYC since 1956. Amelia was born in Towanda, PA, on July 22nd, 1937. She met Kim Huot Kiet on the 4th of July 1975 in Washington, DC; and they married in 1983 in Virginia. She recently retired from her job with
 MYERS--Irene (nee Braverman), age 88, on February 12, 2007. Beloved wife, mother, sister, aunt, cousin, friend. ''She brightened the corner where she was. ''       
 NEWBERG--Marion, 93, formerly of Old Mill Road, Middletown, CT, wife of the late Ivon Newberg died Wednesday morning at Middlesex Hospital. She was the daughter of the late Edward and Rebecca (Silverman) Fischer of Hartford. She is survived by her daughters Esther Newberg of New York City a
 NORMAN--Regina. One who loved life in New York, especially the world of theater and opera, her family and many friends -along with Sam, a prince among terriers -died on February 13, 2007. She is survived by her wonderful children Valerie Hovasapian and Frederick Hovasapian Jr.; her grandchi
 WESHLER--Susan. Friend, relative, full of warmth and beauty. This woman kept her friends and family together just by being ''SUSAN''. We will all miss you and cherish the times we had together. Arlene and Stephen Genatt $(6$)WESHLER--Susan. You will be in my heart and mind forever..
 PALINKER--Catherine, who brought sunshine, glamour and courage to everyone she knew, left us on February 12. You will always be rembered and truly missed. Your friends, Annie, Bertelle and Herman, Cescia and Marc, Ruth and Norman, and Sheila Your niece and grandniece, Marie-Louise, Marie-Cl
 ARNING--Valerie, beloved daughter of Mary Arning and the late John F. Arning Sr., died Monday, February 12, 2007 at the age of 58 after a long and courageous struggle with Parkinson's Disease. She is survived by her brother and sister-in-law, Jack and Doretha Arning, and her brother Bill Ar
 BIRCH--Patti Cadby. The Board of Twin Lions, Inc. deeply mourns the loss of Patti Cadby Birch, the beloved founder of our classical concert series, Free for All at Town Hall. Her wisdom, foresight and generosity have made possible a rich and unique community service that has touched the liv
 FEINBERG--Ceil. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Ceil, wife of our former esteemed member Peter Feinberg, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Stuart B. Wilkins President $(6$)FEINBER
 HART--Katherine P., MBA. Died February 14th, 2007 at the age 58. Vice President at Merrill Lynch where she worked for 29 years. Survived by her husband Gregory G. Stephenson and her brothers James, Thomas, and The V. Reverend Joseph of Rochester, NY. Friends may call on Friday 2-5 pm and 7-
 HOLSTEIN--Lisa, born August 21, 1955, passed away on February 9th, 2007 after a courageous battle with cancer. Daughter of Cecelia Elaine Kussner of Rye, NY and Philip Mazur Holstein Jr. of Aspen, CO. Lisa graduated with honors from Rye; received her B.S. with distinction from the Universit
 KLOTZ--Brenda (nee Schulman) of Teaneck, NJ. Beautiful, loving wife for 48 years of Lewis; mother of Paige Grossman and Natalie Barbanel, both of Tenafly, NJ; grandma to David, Sophia, Stephanie and Jacquie; mother-in-law to Richard Grossman and Jerry Barbanel; beloved identical twin sister
 LAWRENCE--Joan A. 77, long-time resident of the Apthorp, died peacefully at home after a long struggle with breast cancer. Widow of producer and director Bert Lawrence, she is survived by her children, Steve, Jeremy, Paul, and Sarah Lawrence, and her grandchildren, Gabriel, Alex, Joseph, So
 SIMON--Frances (nee Hammerman), left us on February 15, 2007 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of Bernard ''Buzzy'' Simon. She leaves behind her devoted son Elliot and wife Maxine, grandchildren Joy, Marni and Greg, Gerry and JoanMarie, Lewis and Caroline, Beth and Dominic, 11 great-grandchild
 BIRCH--Patti Cadby. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Honorary Trustee Patti Cadby Birch. Patti joined the MoMA Board of Trustees in 1995 and was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1998. During her tenure at the Museum, Patti served with dedication as a mem
 ELLIS--Shirley. The Friends of Princeton Track note with sadness the passing of Shirley Ellis, beloved wife of our long-time coach, the late Larry Ellis. We convey our deepest condolences to her entire family. Joe Bolster, President Emeritus Dan Biederman, President       
 HAIMES--Loretta Marcus, 92. Born in Evanston, IL, raised in St. Louis. Moved to New York City in her 20s where she met her husband, Murray. They married and raised two sons in Babylon Village, where she worked for close to twenty years at the Babylon Public Library. She nurtured and thrived
 HOFFMAN--Sema (Schaffer), passed away February 16, 2007. She is survived by her loving husband, Nathaniel, children Nina, Meryl and Glenn, adoring grandchildren Jared and Jessica. Services 11:30 am Sunday, 18th, I.J. Morris, Dix Hills.       
 HOLSTEIN--Lisa. The former partners of Brown, Raysman, Millstein, Felder, & Steiner, LLP mourn the passing of our friend and partner, Lisa Holstein, on both a personal and professional level. Lisa was a brilliant attorney and an extraordinary partner. Lisa's intelligence and dedication to t
 NEEDLEMAN--Wilma, on February 3rd, 2007. Beloved wife of Joseph Needleman (deceased), mother of Marilyn, Karen, David (deceased) and Rhea. Registrar for New York City Community College for fourteen years. A woman of principles, who was dedicated and committed to human rights her entire life
 WING--Nell, February 14, 2007. Wayne, New Jersey. Beloved aunt and sister, known for her contributions to the social and spiritual movement of Alcoholics Anonymous. Secretary to Bill Wilson, co-founder of AA, 1950-1971. First AA archivist. Founding Board member of The Stepping Stones Founda
 BLUM--Daisy Oppenheim. We mourn the loss of our cherished life long friend, Daisy, wife of the late beloved Walter Charles Blum. Her extraordinary kindness, unfailing graciousness, her lively intelligence and delightful sense of humor was a treasured gift to all of us. She will be lovingly 
 GIMBER--Marjorie Sclater Paterson (Patter) of Montclair, NJ died on February 11, 2007 after an illness. She was 86. A Memorial Service will be held on St. Patrick's Day, March 17 at 11AM in Holy Innocents Church, West Orange, NJ. Patter was born in Orange, NJ and lived in Weston, MA and Mon
 GRACE--Elizabeth, who resided in NYC for over 30 years, died on February 12th in Mt. Sinai. She leaves to mourn three sisters and two brothers. Elizabeth held various Managerial positions during her 32 years of service with the City of New York. The Viewing will be at 9:00 am followed by th
 GROSS--Elee, died on February 15, 2007. She is lovingly remembered by her husband, Robert, her children, David and John-Henry, her daughters-in-law Betsy and Schon, her sister Micki, her grandchildren Robbie, Mollie and Christine, her nephews and nieces, many close cousins and other relativ
 HOLSTEIN--Lisa. The former partners of Brown, Raysman, Millstein, Felder, & Steiner, LLP mourn the passing of our friend and partner, Lisa Holstein, on both a personal and professional level. Lisa was a brilliant attorney and an extraordinary partner. Lisa's intelligence and dedication to t
 HUFNAGEL--Estelle Blaine Cliver. Loving wife of Edwin Kendall Cliver and Henry Jacob Hufnagel. Beloved Mother of Blaine and Kendra, stepmother of Karen, grandmother of Robert, Christa and Andrew, step-grandmother of Tim, great-grandmother of Arwen. With style and elegance she wove her life 
 LANE--Bland. The Board of Trustees of the Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute FAMRI is very sad to announce the sudden and unexpected passing of our beloved Board member, Bland Lane, in San Francisco, on February 15, 2007. Bland was an extraordinary and accomplished woman, who strug
 LOOK--Charlotte Cleveland. Granddaughter of former President Grover Cleveland, died unexpectedly on February 10. A memorial service is being held on February 24 at 2pm at St. Paul's Church in Brunswick, Maine for Charlotte and her husband David T. Look, who died in January. In lieu of flowe
 MATTHEWS--Carole M., of Middle Island, L.I. on February 15, 2007 at the age of 59. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Elizabeth, Brian (Heather), Caitlin, and Patrick. Friends may call at the Bryant Funeral Home, Incorporated 411 Old Town Rd. Setauket, L.I. Visiting hours Tuesday 7-10
 SCHERR--Ruth Watnick, 93, died February 16, 2007. A woman of keen intelligence and intellectual curiosity, she possessed boundless enthusiasm. She cared passionately about her family and her Jewish heritage. A dynamic educator and leader in many Jewish organizations, including the Hebrew Ed
 SEXTON--Evelyn C. of Stamford, died peacefully on February 15, 2007. Born February 19, 1919, in Brooklyn, NY, she was the daughter of the late Francis and Mary Winter. Mrs. Sexton is survived by her two daughters, Hannah Sexton Young and Mary Mezzapelle and seven grandchildren. A Mass of Ch
 THOMAS--Emma Welling. Emma Welling Thomas (known as ''Welling'') died at New York-Presbyterian Hospital on January 14th after a brief illness. An attorney specializing in trusts and estates law, she had worked at several well-known firms in New York City and Providence, Rhode Island. Since 
 WESHLER--Susan. Life will never be the same with out you, we will always remember your dazzling smile and generous heart. Elaine and Norman, Lauren and Adam, Marc. $(6$)WESHLER--Susan. Friend, relative, full of warmth and beauty. This woman kept her friends and family together just 
 ALBRECHT-CARRIE--Else Lorch (December 23, 1915 February 13, 2007). Of an adventuresome Viking spirit, Else graced Columbia University and the New World with her deep sense of culture, her courage, integrity and loyalty. A linguistic polyglot, she served as editor and translator for many yea
 EISENSTEIN--Marilyn. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourns the untimely passing of their fellow member Mrs. Marilyn Eisenstein and offer their deepest sympathy to her husband Dr. Bernard, her children and the entire Eisenstein Family. Alpine Country
 GOLDSTEIN--Beverly. We are devastated by the loss of our most beloved Beverly. A Woman of valor, courage and timeless devotion to her sister Roz, her friends, and tzadaka. With our love Nancela, Schulman & The Bumbles $(6$)GOLDSTEIN--Beverly. The best friend a person could have. Spe
 KROTOSKY--Ruth (Wilk), 81, formerly from Brooklyn, NY, died at home peacefully in her sleep on February 17, 2007. A resident of Boca Raton, FL since the death of her beloved husband Jerry, in 1988, she is survived by her daughter Michaele Wilk Houston and son-in-law Bob Frymire, her son Ste
 LANDSBERG--Ethel on February 17, 2007 in her 100th year. A long life filled with love, accomplishments, kindness and style. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Devoted mother of Marjorie and mother-in-law of Jay. Wonderful grandmother of David (Jennifer) and great-grandmother of Molly Lauren. S
 LANE--Bland. The Board of Trustees of the Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute FAMRI is very sad to announce the sudden and unexpected passing of our beloved Board member, Bland Lane, in San Francisco, on February 15, 2007. Bland was an extraordinary and accomplished woman, who strug
 REIDY--Brigid, on February 16, 2007 of Manhasset. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Loving mother of Brigid O'Connor, Kathleen Sullivan, Laurice Healy, Maureen Mone, Geraldine Warner, John Reidy, Brendan Reidy, Mary Ann Jorgenson, James Reidy and Christopher Reidy. Also survived by 23 grand
 WEISSMAN--Florence, wi dow of Irving, beloved mother of Beth and Myrna, passed away February 11, 2007. Memorials in her memory may be made to Beth Ami Congregation, 1401 NW 4th Ave., Boca Raton, FL 33432. At her request the services were private.       
 GOLDSTEIN--Beverly. Beverly's courage in life and in her battle with cancer were exemplary. We will always remember Beverly on the tennis court and think of her every time we hit a drop shot. Our sincerest condolences to Roz. Mindy, Michael, Katie and Jake       
 SAPERSTEIN--Merrill Freeman passed on February 17th, 2007. Devoted wife of Raymond Saperstein, loving mother of Richard, Robert and Lawrence, giving mother-in-law of Brooke, Melissa and Amy, beloved grandmother of Noah, Annie, Asa and Leo, Charlie, Joe and Leah, and Sam and Max. Gentle, wis
 AMDUR--Eileen, died peacefully at home on February 18 in her 97th year, cherished wife of the late S. Laurence Amdur, beloved mother of Dr. Latifa Amdur, Rick and Nurit Amdur and Mary Ann Rothman, dear grandmother of Ariel, Lany, and Dov Amdur, Michael and Mireia Rothman-Simon, and Dan and 
 BURT--Jane Duffy, of Sea Ranch Lakes, FL, formerly of Larchmont, NY, died at home on February 18, 2007. Mrs. Burt was the wife of the late Wilbur F. Burt, Jr., and daughter of the late Florence and Stephen V. Duffy. She is survived by five children, Wilbur F. Burt, III of Plainville, MA, Jo
 CUBA--Ruth, on February 17, 2007, at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Abraham V. Cuba. Loving mother of Barbara and Leonard Rich, Gary and Wendy Cuba, and Jacqueline and Scott Norkin. Dearest Mama of Kevin, Andrew and Jessica, Jonathan, Victoria, Joey, and Julianne. Proud great-grand
 FRANKL--Shirley, died peacefully at home on February 18 at the age of 85. Beloved wife of Sy Frankl, sister of Hermine Bortnicker, mother of Dana and Ron Teitler and Karen Frankl. She is also survived by her grandchildren Katie Teitler, Beth and Jeff Kalinowski and her great-grandchild, Sar
 GAULT--Karen B., beloved wife of Perry, loving mother of Deena Gault Engleman, Jeffrey and Clifford Gault. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Emily and Kyle Gault, Brittany, Alexa and Danielle Gault. Predeceased by her son David. Funeral service Tuesday (today 12 noon) Edwards - Dowdle Funer
 HAUSLER--Ellen Elizabeth, born July 8, 1957, in Miami, FL, was killed tragically February 15, in Connecticut in an automobile accident. Beloved wife of Richard M. McGonigal for 15 years, daughter of Jeannette Fuller Hausler, sister of Donald, Philomena and Jennie, beloved aunt of Madeleine 
 JOACHIM--Evelyn. We deeply mourn the loss of our cherished friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her loving family. Susan and Bruce $(6$)JOACHIM--Evelyn, 68, of Boca Raton, FL, was taken from us suddenly on February 17, 2007. Beloved mother of Karen Sobotka (David), Jeffrey (Ali
 LANDSBERG--Ethel on February 17, 2007 in her 100th year. A long life filled with love, accomplishments, kindness and style. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Devoted mother of Marjorie and mother-in-law of Jay. Wonderful grandmother of David (Jennifer) and great-grandmother of Molly Lauren. S
 LEEDS--Francys (nee Zaltzman) February 16, 2007. Wife of the late F. William Leeds, mother of Dana Leeds (John Ezell), Greg Leeds (Pegi Goodman), and Brandon Leeds (Tammy Stephens), grandmother of Logan, Samuel, Maia, Erin and Jonathan. Funeral services Tuesday 11am at Goldsteins Rosenbergs
 LUBIN--Evelyn. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel Lubin, died peacefully on February 18. She was the cherished mother and mother-in-law of Helen and Robert Stark, and the adoring and adored grandmother of Caroline Stark Beer and David Stark. Her gentle and loving kindness will be missed by ma
 MOSNER--Shirley (nee Passick), 76, of Nanuet, NY, on February 16, 2007. Community leader for Nanuet School System and Jewish Community at large. Predeceased by her beloved husband David. Cherished and loving mother of Miriam and Dr. Lawrence Suchoff, Michael and Michelle, Daniel, Judith and
 ROGERS--Willie Mae, for 23 years Director of the Good Housekeeping Institute, and one of the leading advocates for the responsibility of business to consumers, died January 18th, 2007 in New York. She was 98 years old. Miss Rogers was a pioneer in the world of women in business and was part
 WING--Nellie Elizabeth, died February 14, 2007. She was born in Kendall, NY. She was a 1940 graduate of Keuka College. From 1944 -1946 she served in the US Coast Guard. She was the administrative assistant to Bill Wilson, the founder of A.A., in NYC from 1947 until 1982. She was the 1st A.A
 SAPERSTEIN--Merrill Freeman passed on February 17th, 2007. Devoted wife of Raymond Saperstein, loving mother of Richard, Robert and Lawrence, giving mother-in-law of Brooke, Melissa and Amy, beloved grandmother of Noah, Annie, Asa and Leo, Charlie, Joe and Leah, and Sam and Max. Gentle, wis
 Ann Barzel, a dance writer and historian whose tenacity and passion for the art form were legendary, died on Feb. 12 in Chicago. She was 101. Her death was confirmed by George Dorris, a dance historian and friend. Ms. Barzel liked to say she started her career at 9 when she 
 BARBERIO--Lily A., February 20, 2007. Beloved wife of Greg Ransom, loving sister of Therese, devoted daughter of the late Francis and Rosemary Barberio. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Thursday, February 22, 25 and 7-9 pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 
 BOCK--Janet. The directors, officers and employees of Hess Corporation express their deepest sorrow and sense of loss on the death of their dear friend Janet Bock, Senior Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the Board. As an employee of the company for over 32 years, Mrs. Bock had the hig
 KANTOR--Barbara, Goodbye dear friend. I will miss you. Gayle Morrow KANTOR--Barbara. There are ''friends and then there are friends!'' Barbara was the ''best of the best!'' We will miss her friendship, kindness and warmth. The bridge world will truly miss their champion. Rest in Pea
 KORN--Florence V. On February 9th, 2007. Beloved wife of Norman, adored mother of Laurence and Diane, sister of Dr. Elliot Valenstein. She was an inspiration to all with her warm, caring smile and vivacious life style.       
 LASHER--Jeanne See, beloved wife of Alfred William Lasher, Jr.; and mother of John H. Perry III, Henry A. Perry, and Stanton S. Perry, died February 17, 2007. Jeanne lived in Palm Beach, Florida and Houston, Texas, and was a loving stepmother of Alfred W. Lasher, III and Stephen A. Lasher; 
 MILLER--Rosetta A. June 23, 1935-February 18, 2007. We mourn the passing of Rosetta Averil Miller, beloved wife of thirty years of Samuel C. ''Sam'' Miller, Director Emeritus of The Newark Museum, Newark, New Jersey. A native of South Carolina, Mrs. Miller was well known in theatrical circl
 SHANE--Eleanor, 74. Longtime resident of New York City, passed away on February 19, in Boynton Beach, FL, after a long illness. While in New York, Eleanor was founder and President of the Shane Group, an executive recruitment firm. An active artist during her lifetime, Eleanor's paintings a
 SINATRA--Phyllis Catherine, 79, on February 19, 2007 after enduring a long illness. Predeceased by beloved husband, Thomas. Dedicated Mother to Nina, Frank, Carla, and the late Kathryn. Adored grandmother, true friend. Graduate of Marymount College. Talented pianist and singer. We will fore
 SMELENSKY--Helen, be loved wife of the late Simon Smelensky, M.D., and loving sister of the late Julius Berkowitz, devoted mother of sons Michael C. and Robert E. Sterling, M.D., adoring grandmother to Eric Sterling and Lilia Sterling, died peacefully on February 20, 2007. She was admired a
 Rosetta Miller, a benefactor of the World Monuments Fund and the Newark Museum, died Saturday night or Sunday morning at her home in Sarasota, Fla., where she was spending the winter. She was thought to be 73, and also had homes in Manhattan and on Pawleys Island in South Carolina, her home
 Celia Franca, the London-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada and a pioneering figure in Canadian dance, died on Monday in Ottawa. She was 85. Her death followed a series of falls that had left her bedridden, said Sally Szuster, the publicity manager for the Toronto-based N
 JACOBS--Joannie Patterson, wife of Harry A. Jacobs, Jr, the former chairman and CEO of Prudential-Bache Securities, Inc., died on February 20 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs were married in 1997 and resided in Sun Valley, Idaho, Irvington, NY 
 MABRY--LaDonna, died in her home February 11, 2007, in New York City after a long illness. LaDonna was born in Detroit, Michigan, graduated from Cass High School then Michigan State University. She participated in the Miss America Pageant. She was an actor, and appeared at the Arena Stage, 
 ORZA--Carolina P., on February 20, 2007 at age 92. Loving daughter of the late Aniello Q. Orza and Maria Talamini Orza. Cherished sister of Amelio Q. Orza and the late Claire R. Orza. Adored aunt of A. Quentin Orza II, and Marguerite Orza White. Also survived by other devoted and loving fam
 SINATRA--Phyllis Catherine, 79, on February 19, 2007 after enduring a long illness. Predeceased by beloved husband, Thomas. Dedicated Mother to Nina, Frank, Carla, and the late Kathryn. Adored grandmother, true friend. Graduate of Marymount College. Talented pianist and singer. We will fore
 SITNICK--Tillie, on February 19, 2007, at the age of 97. Beloved wife of Max, devoted mother of Irving and Leonard, cherished grandmother of Elizabeth, Danielle and Samuel. She lived a long, full life and was loved by all.       
 ZIMELIS--Ruth. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of it's longtime member and extends it's sympathy to her family. Paul Warhit, President Rabbi Evan Goodman       
 BRINKERHOFF--Marion (nee Lynch). On February 20, 2007. Daughter of the late Madaline and Thomas Lynch. Beloved wife of the late Raymond Brinkerhoff. Sister of the late Margaret Condren, Mildred Andrews, John and Thomas Lynch. Survived by her niece Madelyn T. Condren and cousin Madeline Enni
 CHIARELLA--Dorothy, beloved wife of the late Joseph A. Proud mother of Joseph Chiarella M.D. and Roberta. Loving sister of Frances Laperla, Rose Esposito, Ann Giannone and Marie Summers. Also survived by nieces and nephews and her loving dog, Chicklet. Reposing, Llyod Funeral Home, 21443 39
 LEVY--Muriel Andria (nee Spalinger) on February 20, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Hyman Levy. Devoted mother of the late Jerrold Levy. Loving mother of Lauren Gilmour (Brian). Cherished grandmother to Theowen, Susannah, and Edward Gilmour. Born on October 27, 1915 in Riverhead, New Yor
 ORZA--Carolina P., on February 20, 2007 at age 92. Loving daughter of the late Aniello Q. Orza and Maria Talamini Orza. Cherished sister of Amelio Q. Orza and the late Claire R. Orza. Adored aunt of A. Quentin Orza II, and Marguerite Orza White. Also survived by other devoted and loving fam
 FRAENKEL--Elizabeth R., died February 20th, age 93, survived by her loving daughters, Barbara Garber and Winifred Rosen.       
 BERKEN--Sylvia, age 90. A resident of Palm Beach, FL, passed in New York. Beloved mother of Mitchell Berken and Bonnie Benedek Hornstein, loving sister of Florence Sturm, Selma Richer and Elinor Rogan, adoring grandmother of Jessica, Melissa and Kirsten. Founder of the Choral Group at the H
 HAMILL--Margaret LaFarge, 97, a longtime resident of Lawrenceville, NJ, died at her home on February 20th, 2007. A funeral service was held on February 23rd at St Paul Church in Princeton. Donations in her memory may be made to the Stuart Country Day School of the Sacred Heart, Stuart Road,
 LEVY--Muriel Andria (nee Spalinger) on February 20, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Hyman Levy. Devoted mother of the late Jerrold Levy. Loving mother of Lauren Gilmour (Brian). Cherished grandmother to Theowen, Susannah, and Edward Gilmour. Born on October 27, 1915 in Riverhead, New Yor
 MABRY--LaDonna. We will miss our hilariously funny, loving, kind, wise, multitalented, creative, esteemed board member, neighbor and dear friend. A unique beautiful soul -so full of life -her spirit lives on in the Britannia. Our hearts are with her daughter Claudie and family. Friends, nei
 BERKEN--Sylvia, age 90. A resident of Palm Beach, FL, passed in New York. Beloved mother of Mitchell Berken and Bonnie Benedek Hornstein, loving sister of Florence Sturm, Selma Richer and Elinor Rogan, adoring grandmother of Jessica, Melissa and Kirsten. Founder of the Choral Group at the H
 BOMUS--Beatrice. The National Executive Committee, Officers and Staff of the Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourn the passing of Bea Bomus. Inspirational leader, Bea was National Vice President of WC/AR, chaired our major committees, dedicated ORT and Histadrut activist, and for 40 years, be
 COHEN--Natalie, died peacefully on February 16. She lived an elegant, glamorous and enriched life for 98 years. She is survived by her daughter Margot and her fiancee Seymour and her son James and daughter-in-law Marian, their sons Charles and the late Michael. She will be missed by all who
 DERRICK--Gratia Willa, 85, died in NYC on February 15th, 2007. As Gratia Christie, a mezzo-soprano formerly with the Metropolitan Opera Touring Company under the direction of Rudolf Bing, she toured the U.S. and Europe performing concert and grand opera in the 1940s and 1950s. She studied u
 FEINGLASS--Beryl Lea (nee Schulman), died December 25th, 2006 at home in Petaluma surrounded by her family. She was 70. We hope she is partying with James Brown. For memorial: berylsmem@yahoo.com       
 JACOBS--Joannie Patterson, wife of Harry A. Jacobs, Jr, the former chairman and CEO of Prudential-Bache Securities, Inc., died on February 20 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs were married in 1997 and resided in Sun Valley, Idaho, Irvington, NY 
 KATZMAN--Ruth B., died on February 22, 2007 after a long battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved daughter of the late Max Katzman and the late Lilian Goldfarb Katzman, Ruth was a cum laude graduate of New York University. Her father was the original inventor of the electric vaporizer and founde
 LEVY--Muriel Andria (nee Spalinger) on February 20, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Hyman Levy. Devoted mother of the late Jerrold Levy. Loving mother of Lauren Gilmour (Brian). Cherished grandmother to Theowen, Susannah, and Edward Gilmour. Born on October 27, 1915 in Riverhead, New Yor
 LUTZ--Queva Jayne, died on Thursday, February 22nd at her home in New York City, surrounded by her family and close friends. Queva was unique in the way she led her life. She enjoyed it immensely, as did those with whom she shared it. Whether at her home of 30 years, her famous Randalls Isl
 MERRIS--Mary, 78, died Tuesday, February 20th, 2007 of complications from surgery. Born in Decatur, IL, Ms. Merris spent most of her career at Fairchild Publications as a top editor at HFD, WWD and W. A memorial service is being planned for the spring.       
 RODGERS--Katharine Bolton, wife of Christopher R.P. Rodgers, died Friday, February 23, 2007, after a long illness at their home in Gulf Stream, Florida. She was born in New York City on January 28, 1917. A prominent fundraiser for charitable institutions in Boston, she was a founder of the 
 ROGERS--Selma. Passed away at home on February 21, 2007, beloved wife of the late Leon, adored mother of Jane (Paul), Michael and Peter (Mary Ellen), loving Grandmother of Jeffrey (Missy) and Joanne (Michael), Mathew (Abby) and Robert, and great-grandmother to Mathew and Lucia. Selma was a 
 RUDD--Rae, formerly of Scarsdale. On February 21, 2007, at home with family. Beloved mother, grandmother, aunt, and cherished friend. Her warmth embraced us all. In lieu of flowers, please donate to a local Hospice. Memorial gathering on March 4, at the Marriott Westchester.       
 SIMON--Rose, vital 97 years old died on February 23, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of Jonathan Simon and Hope and Seymour Grayson. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey and Peter Grayson. Dear sister of Dr. Herman Eisen and the late Charles Eisen and sisterin-law of Natal
 STAFFORD--Gay, 77, of Miami Shores, Florida, died February 10. Born in Brooklyn with a wonderful life spent in Manhattan, Gay retired to Miami where she worked in TV and film while pursuing her passions of yoga, pilates, swimming and tai-chi. Gay was an independent, strong, vibrant, enthusi
 STERN--Liselotte B. A woman of great character and high intellect died on February 19, 2007. She was caring, honest, a lover of art, a good friend, and consummate humanitarian. She will be missed. Arthur and Dassie Hoffman       
 ROSENBLOOM--Esther. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life extends its heartfelt condolences to the Rosenbloom family on the passing of their beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, Esther Rosenbloom. In her personal life and in her philanthropy, Mrs. Rosenbloom was a role
 Peggy Gilbert, a noted jazz saxophonist and bandleader who for decades led all-female ensembles in hot jazz, a daring venture when she began her career more than 80 years ago, died on Feb. 12 in Los Angeles. She was 102 and had lived there for many years. The cause was complications
 PARETS--Lynne Toft, 85, passed away February 24 in San Diego, after a valiant battle against Parkinson's. Born in Weehawken, NJ, she graduated Rutgers University and was a writer at Women's Wear Daily. Beloved wife of 60 years to Edwin, loving mother to Richard, Jeffrey (Audrey), and Andrew
 ROGOFF--Theresa. Beloved mother, wife, sister, and grandmother of four, died on Saturday, February 24. Theresa Rogoff had a long and distinguished career as a registered nurse. She is survived by her three children, Beatrice Plasse, Deborah Rogoff, Sidney Rogoff, and the late Frances Rogoff
 SIMON--Rose, vital 97 years old died on February 23, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of Jonathan Simon and Hope and Seymour Grayson. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey and Peter Grayson. Dear sister of Herman Eisen and the late Charles Eisen and Gladys Leipzig and sister
 SKLAR--Bernice. Loving wife of Irwin for 53 years. Beloved mother of Stephanie and Steven, Robert and Bonnie. Cherished sister of Roberta and Harvey. Adoring grandmother of Sarah, Samantha, David, Harrison, and Amanda. She will be deeply missed and lovingly remembered.       
 AARON--Dora, died February 25. Wife of the late Max Aaron. Mother of Irving Aaron (Lorraine), Russell Aaron (Jane) and the late Beth Aaron Williams. A beloved mother, proud grandmother and great-grandmother who showed love, strength, and vitality to her friends and family. Services Febraruy
 BOMUS--Bea. The Officers and Board of The Workmen's Circle MultiCare Center mourn the passing of our long-time member. Her skills as a nurse provided leadership to the CQI Committee. Together with husband, Abe, she furthered the unique Family Council of the MCC. She will be sorely missed. R
 ELPHAND--Shirley, died February 23rd, 2007, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Louis for 62 years. Loving mother to Phyllis Van Dyne, Sandy Wolstein and Philip Elphand. Mother-in-law to Martin Van Dyne, Melanie Elphand and Lewis Wolstein. Grandmother to Scott, Matthew, Josh, Michael, Kat
 HANAN--Miriam. Beloved wife and mother, passed away on the morning of Monday, February 26th, in Boca Raton, Florida. She was a champion tango dancer, kind and gentle, and known to many as Miss Sunshine. She was also a champion scrabble and gin player, who consistently beat her famous nephew
 KAHN--Liselotte. Liselotte Hirschmann Myller Kahn, widow of the architect Ely Jacques Kahn, died at her home on February 24. She was 101. Born in Nuremberg, Germany, she escaped Nazi rule by moving to Greece and then the United States with her first husband, the late Dr. Ernst Myller and he
 KEYES--Josephine Adrian, of Harding Township, NJ, and Delray, FL, died in her home on Sunday, February 18, 2007. Loved by her late husband Alexander, children Anthony and Alexander Jr., sister Therese Harding of Providence, RI and three grandchildren. Services will be held at the Church of 
 KIESLER--Rose Segal. Loving wife of the late Harry Kiesler, beloved mother of David, Lewis and Kenneth, grandmother of Kate, Liza, Laura, Adam and Aliyah, passed away on February 26th, 2007, in Ann Arbor, Michigan. She held degrees from both Columbia University and Hunter College. She held 
 MARKS--Fe (nee Morales), The class of 1976 of Barnard College mourns the loss of Fe de Lourdes Morales. Our deepest condolences to her beloved husband, Kenneth Marks and her spectacular daughter, Kenisha. Lawyer, regulator, policy - maker, community activist, wife, mother, sister, friend an
 SKLAR--Bernice. Loving wife of Irwin for 53 years. Beloved mother of Stephanie and Steven, Robert and Bonnie. Cherished sister of Roberta and Harvey. Adoring grandmother of Sarah, Samantha, David, Harrison, and Amanda. She will be deeply missed and lovingly remembered.       
 STERN--Dr. Melinda, 56, died in her San Diego home February 24 from breast cancer. Raised in NYC; daughter of the late Paul and Margaret Stern, holocaust survivors. Attended University of Chicago, University Autnoma de Guadalajara, and Mt. Sinai School of Medicine. An astute and compassiona
 Gnapa Batrice Komb, the powerful dancer and choreographer from the Ivory Coast whose all-women troupe, TchTch, introduced her to the international festival circuit as a leader of Africa's new experimental dance, died on Thursday in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. She was 35. The cause
 EFRON--Aimee, 83, of Deerfield Beach, FL, formerly of New York City passed away on February 25, 2007. Before her successful real estate career in Manhattan, she made numerous radio and TV commercials. Beloved mother of James (and Marilynn), Joan (and David) Selkow, Jill (and Neil) Tipograph
 FITZPATRICK--Anne L., 53, beloved daughter of Dr. Eugene J. and Elizabeth Moore Fitzpatrick, died at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, on February 20, 2007. Formerly of Woodbridge, CT, and New York City, she moved to Hastings three years ago. She was born in New Haven, CT, on June 11, 195
 KAHN--Liselotte. Liselotte Hirschmann Myller Kahn, widow of the architect Ely Jacques Kahn, died at her home on February 24. She was 101. Born in Nuremberg, Germany, she escaped Nazi rule by moving to Greece and then the United States with her first husband, the late Dr. Ernst Myller and he
 KEEGAN--Silvana. In honor of our cherished and beautiful friend and colleague. Her passion and courage will live on in our program. Woman to Woman The Mount Sinai Medical Center       
 MALAWISTA--Linda A., on February 26, 2007 in her 64th year after a courageous battle with cancer. She is survived by her beloved husband Fred of 43 years, her uncle Herbie and her sisters Amy and Margie. She also leaves behind her adored children Laurie and Adam and her son and daughter-inl
 MCDANNOLD--Nancy Knothe, 81, died peacefully at home on February 24th, 2007. She was predeceased by her son, Philip T. Stanley, and by her grandson Chester Griswold. She is survived by her children, Jennifer S. Beardsley, Robert C. Stanley III and Kathryn Griswold; by seven grandchildren, S
 PHILLIPS--Jean Brown, 90, of Shenandoah, Virginia and formerly of Manhattan, New York, died February 25, 2007. She owned and operated Phillips Communications in Manhattan, New York for a number of years. She was a member of the All Souls Unitarian Universalists.       
 SKLAR--Bernice. Loving wife of Irwin for 53 years. Beloved mother of Stephanie and Steven, Robert and Bonnie. Cherished sister of Roberta and Harvey. Adoring grandmother of Sarah, Samantha, David, Harrison, and Amanda. She will be deeply missed and lovingly remembered.       
