 Bella S. Abzug, New Yorker, feminist, antiwar activist, politician and lawyer, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 77. She died of complications following heart surgery, said Harold Holzer, who was her spokesman when she served in Congress. S
 Baroness Lestor of Eccles, a crusading British politician who spoke out against apartheid in defiance of her Government's policies and who struck a blow on behalf of single mothers when she won the right to adopt two children on her own, died in a hospice in London on Friday. She was 66 and
 Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 61 and lived in Brooklyn. She died of cancer, said her husband, Seymour Schorr.        
 ABZUG-Bella. The National Women's Political Caucus of New York State mourns the death of Bella Abzug, our leader in the fight for women's rights. As we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Women's Rights Movement, Bella will be remembered as our history and our strength. ABZUG-Bel
 BURKE-Timothy C. On March 27, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Michael Burke. Devoted mother of Doreen Sorrell and Michele Majer. Loving grandmother of William, Edmund and Spencer. Member of Colonial Dames of America and D.A.R. Memorial service at St. Jean the Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave a
 DANE-Gisele Stern. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Gisele Stern Dane, beloved sister of our devoted member and Day School benefactor, Sylvie Nathanson. To her and the entire family, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice Presiden
 LAMBERTSEN-Eleanor C., Ed.D., R.N. The New York and Presbyterian Hospital & the Divisions of Nursing are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend and dear colleague Eleanor Lambertsen. She served as Dean of the Cornell University New York Hospital School of Nursing from 1970 to 
 POCHAPIN-Anne Ruben, 98. Beloved wife of the late Max M. Pochapin, loving mother of Rita Rosen and the late Stuart Pochapin. Cherished mother-in-law of Philip Rosen and Sandra Pochapin Kohn. Grandmother of Phyllis and Rod Raskin, Wendy and Robert Landes, Michael Rosen and Stephanie Sylvere,
 SAUTER-Lilianna, MD. Died Mar. 28th, 1998. She was a dedicated physician and talented dermatologist, Associate Professor at Mount Sinai Medical School, Life Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine. Memorial service will be held Friday, April 3 at noon in the second floor chapel, Guggenhe
 SCHWARTZMAN-Simona (Joy), 86, adored wife of the late Alexander. Dear mother of Teddy, Anne and Deanna. Proud grandmother of Michael, Andrea, Jeffrey and Jeremy. Service today, 10:45AM, at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing. An act of kindness in her memory or a donation in her honor to the Nati
 SIESEL-Elinor S., 64. Of Somers, NY. Beloved wife and best friend of Daniel Siesel. On March 29 after a valiant struggle against brain cancer. She will be greatly missed by her children, Steven and Linda Siesel of Seminole, FL., Diane and Stephen Muratore of Mamaroneck, NY, her six grandchi
 ABZUG-Bella. Bella's sister Helene Alexander, her daughters Eve and Liz Abzug and other family members deeply appreciate the outpouring of love in response to our great loss. A service will be held today, April 2, noon for family and close friends at the Riverside Chapel, 76 Street and Amst
 BROYDE-Renee M. (Rosenblum) 87. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Widow of Norton Broyde, died Wednesday, March 25, 1998, at the Avon Health Center. She is survived by her son, Steven J. Broyde of Burlington; her daughter, Bernice A. Broyde of Boston, MA; one sister, Adeline Levy of Brooklyn,
 ERIV-Janet Ann. On March 31, 1998, at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. She was a lawyer who achieved success in both the private and public sectors. At the time of her death she was deputy director of the Mayor's Office for People with Disabilities. Janet Eriv resided in New York Ci
 GREW-Alma Clayburgh, age 82. Of Boston, MA, formerly of New York City. Wife of the late Dr. James H. Grew. Mother of Alma, Edward S. and James H. Grew. Aunt of Jill Clayburgh of CT. She was the daughter of the late Albert and Alma Lachenbruch who was a well known concert singer in New York 
 PINQUIST-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Loving mother of Candace, Richard and Ronnie. Cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Joshua and Daniel. Dear sister of Eli, Florence, Jean, Allan and Bea. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I., 10:30 A.M., Friday. PINQU
 SIESEL-Elinor S., 64. Of Somers, NY. Beloved wife and best friend of Daniel Siesel. On March 29 after a valiant struggle against brain cancer. She will be greatly missed by her children, Steven and Linda Siesel of Seminole, FL., Diane and Stephen Muratore of Mamaroneck, NY, her six grandchi
 SPEREGEN-Agnes Edna. Age 83. Wife of the late Nat Speregen. Beloved daughter of Blanche and Emanuel Levinson. Mother of Harold, Judith, Shelley and Emanuel. She will be missed by her nine grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Graveside service Friday at 1PM at Hungarian Union Field C
 ABZUG-Bella. The YWCA of the USA mourns the passing of Bella Abzug. We extend to her family, friends and colleagues our heartfelt condolences. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Bella was a friend, unrivaled advocate for women's rights, and cherished icon of the women's movement who pav
 DEEGAN-Eileen Haigney. Died April 2, at Courtland Gardens in Stamford, Conn. A successful advertising writer and manager, with BBDO for seventeen years and later as a freelance, Mrs. Deegan is survived by her son, David J. Deegan of Greenwich, by 4 grandchildren, 2 brothers, 2 sisters. Her 
 DORF-Dora. Known to many who shared smiles with her as Debbie. Loving mother of Golda, Herb and her sweet Rachel Leah who she now joins in beautiful peace alongside her late husband, Jacob Dorf. Beloved grandmother of Tara, Eugene, Heather and Allyson. Aunt and very much a friend, so genero
 HOLMES-Jishu Sandra. Her life exemplified bearing witness, healing and openness to the mystery of each moment. Jan Crawford       
 LEVINE-Lillian Bennett. Lifelong fighter for progressive causes, teacher. Loving mother of Andrew and Toby Levine, Minna and Bob Immerman, and Alice Levine; proud grandmother of Caren and Michael Pelletier, Gaby Immerman and Kelly Anderson, Amy Levine and Suzanne Immerman. Widow of Benjamin
 MORSE-Sara Karen. Wife to Gerald, mother to Darienne Franks, Alison Cohen and Margot Cseley. Grandmother to Dan, Rachel, Jonathan, Alexandra, Tibor Jr. and Endre. A woman so easy to love, she still fills our spirit with her presence. Gathering For Remembrance: 8PM, 26 April, Hudson River Cl
 YEGEN-Gladys (Dr. Gladys ter). Loving wife of the late ChrisWintian. Died April 2, 1998 at the age of 93. Formerly of Teaneck and Tenafly, New Jersey. Beloved mother of Laura Kahl (Jim), Christian Yegen (Lonna), Carol Lerer (Nat). Devoted grandmother of Katy, Kristy, and Laurie, Hillary and
 Laila Twigg-Smith, an art collector and philanthropist, died on March 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 53 and had recently moved to Manhattan from Honolulu. The cause was liver failure, said Christopher English Walling, a friend. A trustee of the New Museum of
 GREEN-Shirley, 70. Passed away Sunday, March 29, after a long battle with cancer. Memorial Services will be held on Saturday, April 4 at 7 P.M. at Kashi Ashram by the Pond. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to the River School in her name. For information please call
 KRUPNICK-Audree (Wigler). Of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. passed away on April 2nd after a long bout with lung cancer. She leaves her adoring husband, Irwin, after 51 years of a most wonderful marriage; three children, Gary, James and Jane; daughters-in-law, Tammy and Debra; as well as the light
 MORSE-Sara Karen. Wife to Gerald, mother to Darienne Franks, Alison Cohen and Margot Cseley. Grandmother to Dan, Rachel, Jonathan, Alexandra, Tibor Jr. and Endre. A woman so easy to love, she still fills our spirit with her presence. Gathering For Remembrance: 8PM, 26 April, Hudson River Cl
 SCHWARTZ-Judith C. Beloved mother of William Sinclair and Naomi Norman. Adoring grandmother to Alexandra, Michael, Rebecca and Anna Julie. Devoted aunt to Robert, Mitchell and Nancy. Loving friend to so many. She filled our lives with joy...touched our hearts with laughter. Her warmth, her 
 TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. on April 3, 1998. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and Medical Director, The Women and Children Care Center at The Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Beloved wife of James Goodwin and loving mother to 
 YEGEN-Gladys (Dr. Gladys Winter). Loving wife of the late Christian. Died April 2, 1998 at the age of 93. Formerly of Teaneck and Tenafly, New Jersey. Beloved mother of Laura Kahl (Jim), Christian Yegen (Lonna), Carol Lerer (Nat). Devoted grandmother of Katy, Kristy, and Laurie, Hillary and
 BEHRMAN-Elza. Age 92, died on April 4, after a short illness. She is survived by two sons David Behrman and Harold Stone, a daughter Barbara Gelb, five grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. Funeral service will be private.       
 BROWN - BORENSTEIN - Lillian. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend who, with her beloved husband, Samuel, was a YU Guardian. With her first husband, the late A. Milton Brown, she was a Founder of YU's Albert Einstein College of Medicine and a Fellow of our affil
 LEONG-Ellen. Dr. Ellen Fook-len Leong, 96, died peaceably at home in New York City on March 12, 1998. Born October 31, 1901 on Kauai, HI. She received her MD in 1926 from Rush Medical College to become one of the first woman doctors in Hawaii. In 1937 she was appointed to the head of the OB
 MORSE-Sara Karen. Wife to Gerald, mother to Darienne Franks, Alison Cohen and Margot Cseley. Grandmother to Dan, Rachel, Jonathan, Alexandra, Tibor Jr. and Endre. A woman so easy to love, she still fills our spirit with her presence. Gathering For Remembrance: 8PM, 26 April, Hudson River Cl
 RASCH-David. Anti-Defamation League Women's Division expresses sincere condolences to our Honorary Chair Ernestine Rasch on the death of her beloved husband, David. Audrey Magid, Chair Rhoda W. Korman, Director       
 SMITH-Nora Stone, 68. On April 2, 1998, at home, of cancer. Nora was loved and admired by many. She was a beacon of light and an inspiration to us all. We will miss her. Carol, Matthew, Temple, Loren, Brendan, Katie, Susanna and Farwell       
 BROWN - BORENSTEIN - Lillian. The Palm Beach Orthodox Synagogue mourns the passing of its beloved member, Lillian BrownBorenstein, loving wife of Sam Borenstein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Moshe Scheiner Dr. Edward L. Steinberg Dr. Michael Gelfand Co-Presidents
 EPSTEIN-Diana. On April 3, 1998, who with her partner, Millicent Safro, co-founded the firm of Tender Buttons. Beloved sister of Mel and Sheldon Green and Barbara Levin. Also survived by many friends and the staff of Tender Buttons. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, 
 NIEBLING-Shirley B. A memorial service will be held at Christ Church, Highland Ave, Short Hills, New Jersey, 2 PM, Saturday, April 11, 1998. Mrs. Niebling, a long time resident of Short Hills with her husband Walter, passed away in South Hero, VT, January 10, 1998. The burial, which will be
 NIRENBERG-Susan. On April 3, 1998. Beloved wife of Louis, and mother of Marc and Lisa. Loving sister to Naomi. Grandmother of James and Alma. Her warmth, friendship, humor and sense of style will be deeply missed. And what a cook she was.       
 TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. The Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and the Pediatric Service of Babies & Children's Hopsital offer heartfelt condolences to the family of Hope Babette Tang-Goodwin, M.D., an exemplary alumna of our pediatric tra
 WEBER-Millie. The Orthodox Union mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed dedicated Chairman of the National Board, Marcel Weber, and Suzy Ross. She was a devoted mother, mother-in-law, grandmother and great grandmother, staunchly committed to many Torah causes worldwide. Ma
 Dr. Viola Wertheim Bernard, a prominent New York psychiatrist who found ways to help adopted and foster children feel at home in new surroundings, died on March 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91 and also lived in Nyack, N.Y. Her prescription for easing t
 COOPER-Muriel Gurdon Kiessling Died at the Honey Hill Rest Home in Norwalk, Connecticut, Sunday, April 5, 1998. She was a resident of New Canaan, Connecticut. Mrs. Cooper was the daughter of the late Calvin Kiessling and Grace Saltonstall Kiessling of New Canaan. She is survived by two sons
 GOLDMAN-Babette S. Leiter. On April 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ben Goldman and Dr. H. Evans Leiter. Loving grandmother of Jonathan and Alexander. Dear sister of Allan E. Shore and his wife Carol. Devoted cousin of Manny and Arthur Sprung. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 KAGAN-Esther ''Sis'' Miller, 94. Died at her home in Mount Airy, PA, March 28, 1998. She is survived by her 2 sons Jonathan M. Kagan, M.D. and Jeremy Kagan; her sister Sally Brash; her brother Louis Miller; two daughters-in-love Ginnie and Anneke; 4 granddaughters Deborah, Eve, Ali, and Joa
 OTIS-E. Constance Maxfield. On April 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Henry Witte Otis. She is survived by her stepdaughter Lynn Orczyk, her nephew Allen Maxfield, seven grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Service Wednesday, 11 A.M., at Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 7 W. 55 St,
 PARKER-Ruth. In her 86th year on April 4, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Manny. She will be missed by her many good friends, Betty Bowers, and her cousin Frances Rosenbusch.       
 SPRITZER-Marjorie. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseeers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the tragic death of Mrs. Marjorie Spritzer, a dedicated and devoted member of the Board of 
 TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. The Babies Hospital Alumni Association mourns the premature loss of its member Hope Babette Tang-Goodwin, M.D. As a young faculty member at Babies & Children's Hospital of New York, she was admired as an ideal physician. She was dedicated to her patients, res
 Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died yesterday in her sleep at her home in Nashville. She was 55. Ms. Wynette had a history of health problems. The cause of death  was believed to be a blood clot, said Evelyn Shriver, 
 POST-Myrna. Of Boca Raton, on April 7. Beloved wife of Herbert H. Post. Loving mother of Michael, Neil and Robert Post and Suzanne and Seth Estrin, Dear sister of Howard Fichtel. Services will be held on Thursday, April 9th, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, 5808 West Atlantic Avenue, Delray 
 SACKETT-Elizabeth Gray. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital, on Sunday, April 5, 1998. She was 94. Mrs. Sackett was the daughter of the late Paul Robert Gray of Grosse Point Farms, MI., and granddaughter of John Simpson Gray, the first president of Ford Motor Company. She is survived by her sons, G
 Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died on Monday in her sleep at her home in Nashville. She was 55. She recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings. Ms. Wynette, who had a history of health prob
 CARROLL-Andree. On April 8, 1998 at the age of seventy-nine years. Former Senior Associate Counsel for Olin Corporation of Stamford, CT. Devoted wife of the late Walter J. Carroll, WWII Ace. She received her B.A. from Hunter College, Class 1939 and her LLD from New York University in 1943. 
 EYRE-Pelline. Pelline Acton Eyre died peacefully April 7 in her 92nd year in London, England. She is survived by her seven children: Edward, James, Peter, Patrick and Caroline of England, John Eyre of Newport, Rhode Island, Dorothy Reminick of Jupiter, Florida, eleven grandchildren and thre
 NANCE-Arlene. We are saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague and friend. Arlene served both the real estate industry and the community with distinction, combining care and wisdom with the highest standards of integrity. She was widely acknowledged as the leading townhouse expert for
 POST-Myrna. Of Boca Raton, on April 7. Beloved wife of Herbert H. Post. Loving mother of Michael, Neil and Robert Post and Suzanne and Seth Estrin, Dear sister of Howard Fichtel. Services will be held on Thursday, April 9th, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, 5808 West Atlantic Avenue, Delray 
 SMULIAN-Barry S. Beloved husband of Judge Laura A. Ward, loving father of Ian and Faith Smulian. Devoted brother of Toni B. Gasser. Adoring son of the late Nathan L. and Florence B. Smulian. Services Thursday, April 9, 11:30 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu
 SONENCLAR-Bernice. Beloved wife of Joseph. Loving mother of Judy and Stanley Adelsheimer and Leslie and Larry Chalson. Cherished nana of Michael and Alan Levy, Maggie and Andrew Chalson, Erica and Toni Adelsheimer. We miss her already. SONENCLAR-Bernice. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY,
 SULLIVAN-Catherine C. (nee Quinlan). Of Newfoundland in her 43rd year on April 7, 1998. Cherished wife of Timothy. Devoted mother of Meghan, Lauren and Catherine. Beloved daughter of William and Mary. Dear sister of Thomas, William, Patrick and Raymond. Visiting Thursday and Friday, 2-4 and
 Wendy O. Williams, the leader of the 1980's punk band the Plasmatics, a group more famous for their destructive onstage antics than for their music, died on Monday at her home in Storrs, Conn., in what officials called a suicide. She was 48. The cause was a gunshot wound to the head
 Eleanor C. Lambertsen, a leader in American nursing education who introduced the concept of team nursing for better patient care, died on March 30 at Waverly Heights, a nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. She was 82 and a former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was 
 COSTELLO-Genevieve. Of Head of the Harbor, N.Y. on April 9, 1998 in her 81st year. Beloved wife of Dr. Timothy W. Costello. Devoted mother of Peter, Joseph, John, Jeannie Costello, Mary Kay Theoharidies, and Barbara Lyons. Dear sister of Peggy Curley. Cherished grandmother of fourteen. Repo
 HOWELL-Louise. Died April 6 in Lynchburg, VA. Born Mendham, N.J. she graduated from Saint Johns Baptist School and Wilson College Chambersburg PA. After affiliation with Oberlin College and over 10 years with the New York Stock Exchange she was Dir of Capital Dev at The Spence School. Miss 
 POST-Myrna. The Board of Governors and Members of Old Westbury Golf and Country Club wish to extend their deepest sympathies to her husband Herbert and sons Neal, Robert and Michael. Jeffrey Sands, President Barry Swidler, Secretary       
 SELIGMANN-Elizabeth Simon, 84, died peacefully in her sleep on April 9. Beloved wife of Arthur for 62 years; loving mother of Jean Seligmann, Mary Ascheim and mother-in-law of Robert Ascheim; dear sister of George Simon; adored grandmother of Thomas, Jane and Nicholas; great-grandmother of 
 COSTELLO-Genevieve. Of Head of the Harbor, N.Y. on April 9, 1998 in her 81st year. Beloved wife of Dr. Timothy W. Costello. Devoted mother of Peter, Joseph, John, Jeannie Costello, Mary Kay Theoharidies, and Barbara Lyons. Dear sister of Peggy Curley. Cherished grandmother of fourteen. Repo
 DOUGLASS-Rosalind nee Kaplan. Died April 10, 1998, at 83, of Hempstead and Shelter Island, NY. Proprietor of Jay Russell of Garden City and Manhasset from 1937 to 1987. She is survived by her husband, Russell. Beloved mother of Michael and Judy Raboy. Grandmother of Frank, Josh, Amanda and 
 FELDMAN - Gwendolyn. (Nee Kieve). Of Tenafly, NJ on April 9, 1998 following a valiant battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Bud (Edgar J.) for 45 years. Dear mother of Amy Feldman & Nena Colligan. Adored grandmother of Ted, Will and Kieve Colligan. She died as she lived, with dignity 
 LAKE-Joan, 61. Died April 6, 1998 in Manhattan. A graduate of Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs and Columbia University School of Social Work, she was a social worker in New York for many years. Leaves her companion Felix Transport and several cousins. Burial in Cambridge, NY, Tuesday, Apr
 LOEB-Ethel (nee Strauss). Died peacefully at home on April 9, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Milton B. Loeb. Survived by her daughter Felicia Lemonick, son Henry Steiner, and step-son Michael Loeb; grandchildren Jim and John Lemonick, Julie A. Feldman, Bradford Steiner and Wendy Steiner Sch
 SPIEGEL-Margaret Judge, 90. Beloved wife of the late Maurice, on April 9, 1998 in Lakehurst, NJ. Born in Scranton, PA, Margaret with her late husband in 1945 founded Spiegel's Flowers in Butler, NJ, which they sold in 1978 upon retirement. She is survived by a sister and a brother, her thre
 Diana Epstein, a onetime New York book editor whose prosaic need to replace some plastic (ugh!) buttons on a stylish new jacket led her down a rabbit hole of miniature wonder into an enchanted world awash in buttons, died on April 3 at Beth Israel Hospital North near her tiny town house on 
 BERMAN-Phyllis. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of David and Clifford. Adoring grandmother of Zachary and Zoe. Beloved sister-in-law of Florence and Bernard Schlossberg. She will live forever in our hearts, rest in peace. Services Monday, April 13, 1998, 2:30 PM, Gutterman-Warheit M
 BLAUNER-Jessie. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Mrs. Eugene (Jessie) Blauner and extends its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 EYRE-Pelline. Pelline Acton Eyre died peacefully April 7 in her 92nd year in London, England. She is survived by her seven children: Edward, James, Peter, Patrick and Caroline of England, John Eyre of Newport, Rhode Island, Dorothy Reminick of Jupiter, Florida, eleven grandchildren and thre
 FELDMAN - Gwendolyn. (Nee Kieve). Of Tenafly, NJ on April 9, 1998 following a valiant battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Bud (Edgar J.) for 45 years. Dear mother of Amy Feldman & Nena Colligan. Adored grandmother of Ted, Will and Kieve Colligan. She died as she lived, with dignity 
 HEALEY-Barbara Cahill. On April 11, 1998. Mother of Robin H. Gibson. Grandmother of Kaley H. Gibson. Mother-in-law of Gary T. Gibson. Daughter of Helen F. Cahill and the late Robert L. Cahill. Sister of Robert L. Cahill, Jr. Mass of The Resurrection Tuesday, April 14, 11 AM, St. Thomas More
 KAHN-Margery (nee Guiterman). Died April 10, 1998. Beloved wife of Harry Kahn, mother of Evelyn London and Susan London-Payne. Sister of Joan Tarter. Grandmother of Kate Payne. Services Tuesday, April 14, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., NYC. Contributions in 
 KIRSH-Ethel. Beloved mother of Judith Sara Kirsh. Caring aunt of Sonya Cooperman, Sylvia Schatzberg and William Coleman. Strongly identified with her Hebrew heritage, she supported many organizations and held office in her local chapter of Hadassah. The last of a dying breed, she will be so
 LOEB-Ethel (nee Strauss). Died peacefully at home on April 9, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Milton B. Loeb. Survived by her daughter Felicia Lemonick, son Henry Steiner, and step-son Michael Loeb; grandchildren Jim and John Lemonick, Julie A. Feldman, Bradford Steiner and Wendy Steiner. Gr
 NANCE-Arlene. Died April 8, 1998 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital. She was the loving wife of Harry and mother of Erica. She served her community in her work at Educational Facilities Laboratory of the Ford Foundation, the New York Civil Liberties Union and as a social worker in several
 SELIGMANN-Elizabeth Simon, 84, died peacefully in her sleep on April 9. Beloved wife of Arthur for 62 years; loving mother of Jean Seligmann, Mary Ascheim and mother-in-law of Robert Ascheim; dear sister of George Simon; adored grandmother of Thomas, Jane and Nicholas; great-grandmother of 
 SPIEGEL-Margaret Judge, 90. Beloved wife of the late Maurice, on April 9, 1998 in Lakehurst, NJ. Born in Scranton, PA, Margaret with her late husband in 1945 founded Spiegel's Flowers in Butler, NJ, which they sold in 1978 upon retirement. She is survived by a sister and a brother, her thre
 Kasey Cisyk, an opera-trained singer who never made it to the Met but whose haunting coloratura soprano became one of the world's most listened-to voices, died on March 29 at her home in Manhattan. She was 44 and had been the singing voice of the long-running ''Have You Driven a Ford Lately
 ABELES-Elizabeth F. Age 72. Died early Sunday, April 12. Beloved wife of the late Lowell Abeles. Beloved mother of Andrew, Abigail Spirer, Marjorie Vangenewitt, Clifford Abeles and seven grandchildren, Jennifer, Jeffrey, Jeremy, Grant, Elinor, Lowell and Jack. Loving sister of the late Will
 BERMAN-Phyllis. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their member Phyllis Berman, and extends to her beloved husband, Bernard, and her children their sincerest expressions of sympathy. Robert Goldberg, President BERMAN-Phyllis. The Board of Governors, membe
 GOLDSTEIN-Bernice R. 82, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Kingston, PA, died on April 11, 1998 in Washington, DC. Beloved wife of the late Eugene H. Goldstein. Loving mother of Sallie and Edwin H. Stern, III of New York and Barbara and Richard Kline of Chevy Chase, MD. Proud grandmother of Re
 HEALEY-Barbara Cahill. On April 11, 1998. Mother of Robin H. Gibson. Grandmother of Kaley H. Gibson. Mother-in-law of Gary T. Gibson. Daughter of Helen F. Cahill and the late Robert L. Cahill. Sister of Robert L. Cahill, Jr. Mass of The Resurrection Tuesday, April 14, 11 AM, St. Thomas More
 KAHN-Margery (nee Guiterman). Died April 10, 1998. Beloved wife of Harry Kahn, mother of Evelyn London and Susan London-Payne. Sister of Joan Tarter. Grandmother of Kate Payne. Services Tuesday, April 14, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., NYC. Contributions in 
 RIFKIN-Rose. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Rose Rifkin. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Robert Roman, President       
 ABELES-Elizabeth F. Age 72. Died early on Sunday, April 12th. Beloved wife of the late Lowell Abeles. Beloved mother of Andrew, Abigail Spirer, Marjorie Vangenewitt, Clifford Abeles and seven grandchildren, Jennifer, Jeffrey, Jeremy, Grant, Elinor, Lowell and Jack. Loving sister of the late
 BLICKMAN-Nan Tarshis. April 12, 1998. Fifty year soulmate of the late Bernard I. Blickman, cherished mother of Sophia Weinert, Frances Schuster, Myrna Kresh, adored grandmother of Shira Weinert, Marla McLaughlin, Austin Schuster, Jon Schuster, Katherine Schuster. Indomitable spirit, she wal
 GETTNER - Henriette Seldner Herrmann. On april 12, 1998. Beloved wife for nearly 60 years of the late Victor, loving mother of the late Robert. Is grieved by her son Alan, her daughter-in-law Monah, her nephew Fred, her niece Kathy and all her family and friends. Private services. Contribut
 GRIFFITH-Helen S. Wife of the late William Griffith, both of Quogue, died peacefully at the Westhampton Care Center. A memorial service will be held at the Quogue Cemetery, Sunday, April 19, 1998, 2 PM. She is remembered withlove by family and friends.       
 HAMILTON-Rae. Age 85. Of Essex, CT. Died on April 12, 1998. She is survived by son, Peter Gould of New York, daughter, Lynn Worster of Phoenix, AZ, daughter, Katherine Whitehead of Atlanta, GA., four grandchildren and one great grandchild. In lieu of flowers, contributions may made to the A
 HEALEY-Barbara Cahill. On April 11th, 1998. Mother of Robin H. Gibson. Grandmother of Kaley H. Gibson. Mother-in-law of Gary T. Gibson. Daughter of Helen F. Cahill and the late Robert L. Cahill. Sister of Robert L. Cahill, Jr. Mass of The Resurrection Tuesday, April 14, 11 AM, St. Thomas Mo
 JAMESON-Dorothea. On April 12 in her 77th year. Beloved wife of Leo M. Hurvich. University Professor emeritus of Psychology and Visual Science, Department of Psychology and Institute of Neurological Sciences, University of Pennsylvania. Elected to the National Academy Sciences and The Ameri
 MANN-Lorraine. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York, mourns her death and extends condolences to the family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 OTHMER-Mildred Topp. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello and the entire Polytechnic University community mourn the passing of Mildred Topp Othmer, beloved wife of the late Dr. Donald F. Othmer, after a long illness. Dr. Othmer, who passed away in 1
 ROSENFELD-Brooke Worden. On April 12, 1998. Beloved wife of Gerald. Mother of Alexandra. Daughter of Marjorie B. and the late Eugene C. Worden, Jr. Sister of Alethea and Eugene C. Worden III. Services at Frank E. Cambell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Wednesday 11:30 A.M. Interment
 UPTEGROVE-Kathleen. Beloved mother of Kathleen. Died April 12 at age 83 after a courageous battle with lung cancer. She died with grace and dignity at Calvary Hospital. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Tuesday 1 to 4 and 6 to 9 P.M. Mass of Christian B
 EGAN-Sr. Jogues, RSHM. Tarrytown, NY, Monday, April 13. Sister Jogues was a teacher at Marymount Academy, Tarrytown, N.Y., Academy of the SHM Park Terrace Manhattan, Marymount School Los Angeles, CA. Assistant Professor and Academic Dean of Marymount College, Tarrytown, President of Marymou
 FREEDMAN-Audrey. The Board and staff of the Jewish Fund for Justice mourn the death of our dedicated Board member, Audrey Freedman. Audrey was a brilliant economist, insightful media commentator, and a humanitarian deeply committed to social justice. We send heartfelt condolences to her hus
 FROMM-Awo. April 9, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Walter. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her and loved her. Service Thursday, April 16, 1998, 11 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 GERSTELL-Joan Foley, 57. Passed away at her home in Beverly Hills on April 10, 1998. She is survived by her daughters Carolyn, Elizabeth and Alexandra; grandchildren Harrison and Daisy; and sisters Judith and Elizabeth. A memorial service will be held at 10:30AM, on Thursday, April 16, 1998
 JAMESON-Dorothea. We mourn the loss of Dorothea Jameson, a valued advisor to The Lighthouse Vision Research Programs. Our deepest condolences to her husband Dr. Leo Hurvich. Barbara M. Silverstone, President The Lighthouse Inc. and the Staff of the Arlene R. Gordon Research Institute of The
 LEET-Glen F. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note the passing of Glen Leet, beloved husband and partner of Mildren Robbins Leet. Mrs. Leet is a founder of UCP and a persuasive advocate for the rights of individuals with disabilities. In recent years, s
 MARSH-Lilyan. Died on April 10, 1998, in Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Oceanside, New York. Beloved wife of Arthur J. Marsh and mother of Jon and Kenneth Marsh and Nancy Newman. Cherished mother-in-law of Carol and Jan Marsh. She devoted her life working towards world peace and justice. 
 McCRANN-Audrey. Mass of the Resurrection for Mrs. Audrey McCrann, 65, a resident of both Wells, New York, and New Smyrna Beach, FL., died Monday, April 13, 1998 in New Smyrna Beach, will be 11 A.M. on Saturday at St. Ann's Catholic Church, Wells. Interment will follow in Saint Ann's Catholi
 ROSENFELD-Brooke Worden. On April 12, 1998. Beloved wife of Gerald. Mother of Alexandra. Daughter of Marjorie B. and the late Eugene C. Worden, Jr. Sister of Alethea and Eugene C. Worden III. Services at Frank E. Cambell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Wednesday 11:30 A.M. Interment
 STIGLITZ-Annette. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Annette Kesselman Stiglitz. In all her Temple activities she worked to ease pain and enhance dignity. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her husband, Joe, and their son, Andrew, and all their 
 WEAVER-Laura Ann. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City extend our profound condolences to Board Member John Weaver and to the Weaver family on the death of Laura Ann Weaver, who resided at UCP's Castleton residence and was a participant in our day treatment
 WILMAN-M. Catherine ''Kathleen''. Former Principal of J.H.S. 47, School for the Deaf. Died at her residence in Sarasota, Florida. She is survived by her sister Marguerite McArdle.       
 BLICKMAN-Nan Tarshis. April 12, 1998. Fifty year soulmate of the late Bernard I. Blickman, cherished mother of Sophia Weinert, Frances Schuster, Myrna Kresh, adored grandmother of Shira Weinert, Marla McLaughlin, Austin Schuster, Jon Schuster, Katherine Schuster. Beloved sister of Beth Thal
 GERSHENHORN-Rhoda (nee Baron). Of Houston, Texas, formerly of Woodbury, NY, April 14, 1998. Beloved wife of Barry; mother of Ira, Jerry, Alan and Susan; loving grandmother of Brittany, Kelsey, Nicholas and Marissa; devoted sister of Alvin (Buddy); dear motherin-law of Jacqueline, Barbara an
 GERSTELL-Joan Foley, 57. Passed away at her home in Beverly Hills on April 10, 1998. She is survived by her daughters Carolyn, Elizabeth and Alexandra; grandchildren Harrison and Daisy; and sisters Judith and Elizabeth. A memorial service will be held at 10:30AM, on Thursday, April 16, 1998
 HUGHES-Anita D. Died peacefully in her sleep at home April 11, 1998, after suffering from emphysema (although a non-smoker her whole life). Anita is survived by her husband, John; daughter, Stephanie; son, Wesley; grandchildren, Robert, Jane, Jeannie, Richard, David, Susan, Shane; 21 great-
 HYMAN-Dr. Ruth Link-Salinger. Beloved wife of Dr. Arthur, cherished mother of Jeremy Saul (Lynn), Michael Samuel, and Joseph Isaiah (Rena), dear sister of Adolph Salinger and Rosemarie Salinger Golburg. Adored grandmother of Samuel Ariel. Services Thursday, 1 P.M., Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91
 JAMESON-Dorothea. On April 12 in her 77th year. Beloved wife of Leo M. Hurvich. University Professor emeritus of Psychology and Visual Science, Department of Psychology and Institute of Neurological Sciences, University of Pennsylvania. Elected to the National Academy of Sciences and The Am
 KILBORNE-Virginia W., 86. Of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ died April 10, 1998. Graduate of Vassar College, received Master's from NY University Institute of Fine Arts. Wife of the late William S. Kilborne, survived by her sister, Mrs. Bethuel Webster, 3 nieces, Elizabeth Mills, Susan Hyde a
 Sister Jogues Egan, a former provincial superior and college administrator in the Order of the Sacred Heart of Mary and an associate dean at Empire State College who briefly went to jail for her antiwar convictions in 1971, died on Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. S
 Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival re
 BENEROFE-Shirley G. Of Boynton Beach, Florida, on April 16, 1998. Wife of the late Sidney. Mother of Andrew, James and Mitchell Benerofe. Mother-in-law of Froma, Robin, and Ada Benerofe. Sister of Fred Glauber and Beatrice Kaminsky. Grandmother of Amy, Nancy, Mark, Craig, Samantha, Gary, Jo
 CRANE-Fay L. On April 15, 1998. Loving wife of Louis J. Beloved mother of Margie, and son-in-law Fred, Andrew and daughter-in-law Ingrid, and grandmother of Lauren and Jonathan. Loving sister of Kate and brother-in-law Ed. Funeral service to be held at Schwartz Bros., Queens Boulevard and 7
 McGIllICUDDY-Mary Elizabeth, 89. Died on April 15, 1998. She is survived by her three children, Clement McGillicuddy of Virginia; Barbara Bolton of New York City; and Charles McGillicuddy of Augusta, Maine.       
 NAESS-Margaret Dixon. December 15, 1903-April 17, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ragnar D. Naess. Devoted mother of sons, Ragnar and Robert, and mother-in-law of Margo, grandmother of Spenser and Cooper. Her death came quietly in great peace just before a spring dawn. Private services. Memo
 Rose Maddox, a singer who was a leading figure in the West Coast country music of the 1940's, died on Wednesday at the Linda Vista rest home in Ashland, Ore., said Jonny Whiteside, her biographer. She was 72 and died of kidney failure. Ms. Maddox, with her five brothers -- Henry, Cl
 Cardiac patients who were lucky enough to make it to Houston in the days Michael E. Debakey and Denton E. Cooley were pioneering open heart surgery at Methodist Hospital were doubly fortunate that the nurse in charge of the operating room was Fannie Lou Spelce, a well-grounded, no-nonsense 
 ANTINE-Martha. April 12, 1998, in her 97th year. Devoted wife of the late Leon J. Antine, M.D., mother of Lenore Elkan of Yorktown Heights, NY and Herbert Antine, of Punta Gorda, FL; grandmother of five and great-grandmother of four. She will be missed.       
 BEHAR-Diane S. 45. After a 10 year heroic battle with breast cancer. Beloved and adored daughter of Frieda and Solomon Behar. Loving sister of Melissa Fregly. Devoted aunt of Sam and David. Treasured friend of the hundreds of lives she touched. Our bright light has gone out. Services Beth I
 BURDEN-Joyce, 61, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Manhattan, N.Y. Passed away April 16, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Randi Brown, Patti Josepher (Jerry), and Michael Burden (Maria). Cherished and forever loved grandmother of Adam, Lauren, and Jordan. Her love and g
 FRIEDMAN-Rae (Licht). On April 15. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Mark (Robin) Friedman and Eve Fox. Adored grandmother of Andrew (Nicky) and Alyson Fox, Hallie and John Friedman. Her tireless devotion to her family will be sorely missed. Funeral services at Riverside, 76th
 HORN-Sarah, Scranton, PA. Died April 14, 1998. She was the widow of Rev. William S. Horn, Cantor Emeritus of Temple Israel, Scranton. Surviving is a daughter, Rissel Kaggen, Brooklyn, N.Y., 8 grandchildren, 16 great grandchildren. Funeral services were held on Thursday in Rochester, New Yor
 KRAUS-Sylvia Brachfeld Stiefler. Of Rye, New York, died April 18, 1998. Beloved and adored wife of Dr. David Kraus for 23 years, devoted mother of Barbara Schlein and Jeffrey Stiefler; loving sister of Julian H. Brachfeld; proud grandmother of Robert and Jennifer Schlein and Todd, Zachary, 
 OLDENBURG-Lisa Turnure on April 17, 1998, at home. Deeply beloved wife of Richard E. Oldenburg and cherished daughter of Mrs. David A. Turnure. She was blessed with many friends she loved who loved her in return. Memorial service at St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street, at 11 AM 
 SECONDARI-Helen Jean Rogers. On Saturday, March 28th. While in college she was elected to the NSA. She graduated Magna Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Catholic University. Received M.A. from Radcliff. Taught at Harvard as one of first female teaching fellows. Associate Producer for ABC Ne
 SHERMAN-Rebecca Levenson On April 18, 1998, 93, of Pearl River, NY. Darling wife of the late Irving; beloved mother of George and grandmother of Molly and Peter; blessed great grandmother of Cooper. Devoted aunt and greataunt; cherished friend. Many came to her table, all were fed. Services
 STAHL-Elly (nee Wolf). Of No. Miami, FL, died on April 14, 1998 at 90. Loved by her husband, Siegfried; son, Howard; daughter-inlaw, Irene; three grandchildren, Lisa, Jonathan, and Deborah Kerchner; son-in-law, Daniel Kerchner; and Bill Kravitz. Shiva observed in Scarsdale until Friday morn
 TAYLOR-Elsie Lathrop. In Tucson, AZ on April 9, 1998, age 96. Widow of W.R.K. Taylor. Formerly of NYC. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Elsie and Ralph Conly of Sunnyvale, CA., her son Kirk's widow, Anita Gildersleeve of New Milford, CT., her niece, Sylvia Van Sloun of Westport Poin
 WEIL-Nanny. Loving wife of the late Siegbert. Devoted friend of the late Fred Stone. Dearest sister of the late Margaret Schloss. Cherished and beloved by her nieces and nephew and their families, Ellen and Raoul, Fred and Fanny, Susan and Steven. A true and loyal friend who lived with extr
 The Rev. Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest, teacher and co-founder of the Greyston Mandala, an organization in Yonkers dedicated to helping the poor, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 57 and had moved last month to Santa Fe, N.M., from Yonkers. The 
 Linda Eastman McCartney, the wife of the former Beatle Paul McCartney and a photographer whose portraits of 1960's rock stars have become classics, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif., where the McCartneys were vacationing. She was 56. The cause was breast cancer that spread to 
 BEHAR-Diane S. 45. After a 10 year heroic battle with breast cancer. Beloved and adored daughter of Frieda and Solomon Behar. Loving sister of Melissa Fregly. Devoted aunt of Sam and David. Treasured friend of the hundreds of lives she touched. Our bright light has gone out. Services Beth I
 BENEROFE-Shirley. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York, deeply mourn the passing of Shirley Benerofe, mother of Andrew, James and Mitchell, and motherin-law of Froma, Robin and Ada. Her dedication and long-standing commitment to many Jewish causes has bee
 CORRADO-Carmella. Age 93, died Saturday, April 18, in Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. Wife of the late Anthony J. Corrado, she is survived by a son Fred L. Corrado and two granddaughters Christine and Caroline Corrado. A Funeral Mass will be held Wednesday, 10 AM, in St. Mary's R.C. 
 JUNEJA-Gulshan. Of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on April 17, at Cornell Medical Center, New York. Wife of Diljit; mother of Ravi and his wife, Aneeta, and Nita and her husband Charles Pevsner. Grandmother of Raoul, Laurence, and Spencer. Sister to Joginder, Rajinder, Mohinder, and Jaspal Chug,
 KAYE-Florence. Died on Saturday, April 18, in her 91st year. Daughter, wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother and friend, she deeply loved and was devoted to her now deceased parents and her husband Edward; to her children Charlotte and Allen Finn, Judith and Stephen Kaye and Michele 
 RAYMOND-Susie. On April 17, 1998, in her 89th year. Passed away peacefully at her residence in New York. Graveside services today, April 20, 1 PM, at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY.       
 SHERMAN-Rebecca Levenson On April 18, 1998, 93, of Pearl River, NY. Darling wife of the late Irving; beloved mother of George and grandmother of Molly and Peter; blessed great grandmother of Cooper. Devoted aunt and greataunt; cherished friend. Many came to her table, all were fed. Services
 WEIL-Nanny. Loving wife of the late Siegbert. Devoted friend of the late Fred Stone. Dearest sister of the late Margaret Schloss. Cherished and beloved by her nieces and nephew and their families, Ellen and Raoul, Fred and Fanny, Susan and Steven. A true and loyal friend who lived with extr
 CORRADO-Carmella. Age 93, died Saturday, April 18, in Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. Wife of the late Anthony J. Corrado, she is survived by a son Fred L. Corrado and 2 granddaughters Christine and Caroline Corrado. A Funeral Mass will be held on Wednesday, 10 AM, in St. Mary's R.C.
 ELLIOTT-Barbara Burton. The Executive Director of Il Piccolo Teatro Dell'Opera, a regional opera company in New York City died at New York Hospital on April 18 of complications from leukemia. She was sixty-three years old. Barbara was dedicated to Arts Education as an essential ingredient f
 FRANK-Ruth Carlson, 89. Died Sunday at Kendal at Hanover, following a lengthy illness. She was born November 26, 1908 in Brooklyn, NY, a daughter of David and Jenny Carlson. She graduated from Maxwell Teachers College and taught school prior to her marriage. She was married on April 22, 193
 JACOBS-Marianne K. On April 19, 1998 in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Jacobs. Dear mother of John and mother-in-law of Susan Jacobs. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Lori. Services Wednesday, April 22, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family
 KAHN-Ruth Stein. Beloved wife of Abraham, devoted mother of Randy, and Barbara Stewart, loving grandmother of Stacey, Lisa, Robin, and Laurel. Funeral services at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, on Tuesday, April 21, at 10:30 A.M. KAHN-Ruth. Central Synagogue and it
 LAURO-Sophie M. On Sunday April 19th. Cherished sister of Dr. Louis Lauro, the late Raphael Lauro, Sebastian Lauro and Helen Lauro Greco. Beloved Aunt Sophie of her nieces, nephews, and especially Vicki. Honorably discharged as First Sergeant after serving her country in W.W. II in the Unit
 LUKOMNIK-Joanne. Died April 20, 1998. Tireless advocate for social justice and the public's health, former Chair of Executive Board of APHA, co-founder of Westside Yiddish School. Survived by husband Len Rodberg, loving children Josie and Simon, mother Mary Lukomnik, brothers David and Jon 
 METZGER-Edythe Zuckerman, 79. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, April 20, 1998. Beloved wife of Morton for 59 Years; Loving mother of Karen (Howard) Ganz of Greenwich, CT and Buddy (Julie) Metzger of Savannah, GA; Devoted Grandmother of Beth and David Ganz, Dina and David Levi and Mi
 TAUB-Rena, Dr. Of Valley Stream, N.Y. On April 19, 1998. Noted psychotherapist and educator, Dr. Taub was Dean of Child and Group Psychotherapy at the Alfred Adler Institute of New York, and authored many papers in this field. She was an acclaimed artist and printmaker and exhibited in nume
 WAND-Alice. Passed away April 19th, 1998. Devoted wife of Sam. Cherished mother of Barbara Berger, mother-in-law of Jerry. Loving grandmother of Lindsay Beth. She was devoted to her extended family of the Croens and the Morses. Her love and generosity will be remembered by all who were fort
 Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 51. The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, her family said.
 Linda Schele, a onetime studio art teacher who made a fateful vacation visit to Mexico that turned her life upside down and helped revolutionize Mayan scholarship, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Austin, Tex. She was 55 and widely known for her pioneering work in decoding in
 JACOBS-Marianne K. On April 19, 1998 in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Jacobs. Dear mother of John and mother-in-law of Susan Jacobs. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Lori. Services Wednesday, April 22, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LEE-David. The Board and staff of the Joint Passover Assoc. of the City of New York mourns the passing of David Lee, beloved spouse of our long time Board member, Gertrude Lee. Gert's devotion and energy was directed toward caring for David in recent years, but she never forgot her ties to 
 LLEWELYN-Hugh. The brokers and staff of Fox Residential Group extend our heartfelt condolences to our colleague, Michele Llewelyn, on the untimely loss of her husband, Hugh.       
 LUKOMNIK-Joanne. The students, alumni, faculty and staff of the Columbia School of Public Health mourn the passing of our dedicated faculty member. A longtime advocate for public health issues and leader in the American Public Health Association, she will be missed. To her husband, Len Rodb
 MAISEL-Rose. On April 20, 1998. Adored wife of the late Milton; loving mother of Jay and Diane, Howard and Joan; devoted grandmother of Mark, Jill, Steven, Miriam, David and Jennifer; dear great-grandmother of Matthew, Sydney, Aaron, Lauren, Jared, Michael and Jessie. She leaves a legacy of
 McCARTNEY-Linda. The Board members & staff of The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers are deeply saddened by the passing of Linda McCartney, a wonderful songwriter, photographer and humanitarian. Our most heartfelt condolences to her husband, Paul McCartney, their children
 METZGER-Edythe Zuckerman, 79. Of Boca Raton, FL. on April 20, 1998. Beloved wife of Morton for fifty-nine Years; Loving mother of Karen (Howard) Ganz of Greenwich, CT and Buddy (Julie) Metzger of Savannah, GA; Devoted Grandmother of Beth and David Ganz, Dina and David Levi and Michael Metzg
 MUHLFELD-Elizabeth Blakeslee. Died on April 13 in Englewood, N.J. In the week preceding her death, she had been surrounded by her family whom she had loved so dearly-her husband of 55 years, Bearss, and their 5 children, Betsy Ingram of Manchester, MA., George, of Summit, N.J., Katie Bell o
 PHILLIPS-Barbara T. April 20, 1998. Loving wife of Lewis A. Devoted mother of Amy Phillips Penn, Michael A. Phillips and Samantha R. Phillips. Cherished grandmother of Gabriel, Eli and Sophia. Service Thursday, April 23, 1998, 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. 
 STEARNS-Virginia Davenport, widow of Hal H. Stearns, died April 19 in Seattle, WA. She was beloved by many friends and relatives who will greatly miss her participation in the NYC community, her special style and her wonderful sense of humor. Memorial donations may be sent to the East Side 
 TYRRELL-Annabel K. Died on Wednesday, April 15, at Oysterponds Manor, Orient, NY. She was born in 1911 to Takeji and Mary Kusanobu in New York City. A 1984 graduate of Smith College, she also studied at the Sorbonne in Paris. Before joining the staff of the United Nations Secretariat she wa
 YELIN-Libby, 79. Of Tamarac, Florida died April 18, 1998. She had been an area resident since 1970, coming from New Rochelle, N.Y. Beloved wife of Paul for 59 years. She is also survived by sons Laurence Yelin of Secaucus, N.J. and Robert Yelin of Boca Raton, FL. and five grandchildren, Dou
 Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. Her son Drew said the ca
 BODKER-Ruth L. April 18, 1998. A 25-year-employee of Seagrams Distillers Inc. until her retirement in 1972. Beloved sister of Susan Kinsey. Loving aunt of Stephen and Richard Kinsey. Donations in her memory can be made to The 52 Association, C/O Allan Weinberg, Executive Director, 350 Fifth
 FORCHELLI-Dorothea. On April 21, 1998. Beloved wife of Astoria attorney, Vincent. Devoted mother of Charles N., John F., and Kathleen M. Goode. Cherished grandmother of seven. Reposing at Farenga F.H., 38-08 Ditmars Blvd., L.I.C., Thursday and Friday, 2-5, 7-9 PM. Religious services on Frid
 LUKOMNIK-Joanne. The Dept. of Community Health and Social Medicine, CUNY Medical School, mourns the loss of our colleague and dear friend. A fearless opponent of the poverty, injustice and racism in our community, she brought her passion for social justice to the classroom. Her activism ins
 PHILLIPS-Barbara T. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins the staff of Jeanette and Morris Kessel Volunteer Services Dept in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Barbara T. Phillips, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, Lewis A. Phillips, cousin of Beth Is
 Kathleen F. Connelly, a corporate crisis and public relations executive, died Sunday while vacationing in the Virgin Islands. She was 49. The cause was complications from breast cancer, according to a spokesman for the Dilenschneider Group, the public relations firm in which Ms. Con
 BENEROFE-Shirley. The officers and staff of the Westchester/ Greenwich division of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Shirley Benerofe, mother of Andrew, James and Mitchell and mother-in-law of Froma, Robin and Ada. She was a staunch supporter of many Jewish and community cau
 DOW-Helena M. Four time U.S. National Fencing Champion and member of the 1948 Olympic Fencing Team. Died April 22, 1998. Reposing at her son's house at Ridge Road in Tuxedo Park, Friday, April 24, 1998 from 3:00 PM to 9:00 PM. Church services at St. Mary's in Tuxedo Park at 11:00 AM, Saturd
 ELLIOTT-Barbara B. The Board of Directors of the Indpendence Savings Bank extend their deepest sympathy to fellow director Donald H. Elliott and his family on the loss his wife Barbara Burton Elliott. This remarkable woman will be remembered for her love of her family, her commitment to the
 FORCHELLI-Dorothea. On April 21, 1998. Beloved wife of Astoria attorney, Vincent. Devoted mother of Charles N., John F., and Kathleen M. Goode. Cherished grandmother of seven. Reposing at Farenga F.H., 38-08 Ditmars Blvd., L.I.C., Thursday and Friday, 2-5, 7-9 PM. Religious services on Frid
 OLDENBURG-Lisa Turnure. On April 17th, 1998, at home. Deeply beloved wife of Richard E. Oldenburg and cherished daughter of Mrs. David A. Turnure. She was blessed with many friends she loved who loved her in return. Memorial service at St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street, at 11 
 SIMIGIANNIS-Helen nee Angelakos; on Wednesday, April 22, 1998, of Bayonne, NJ. Beloved wife of the late James J. Simigiannis. Cherished mother of Peter Simigan and the late John Simigan. Dear sister of the late Vasilios, Demetrios, Christos, Yanni, Georgios, Michaelis, Panagiotis Angelakos.
 TURCIHIN-Lelya. On Thursday, April 23, 1998. Beloved and adored wife of Sten Evenhouse. Precious daughter of Ilusha and Jale Turcihin. Loving sister of Olya Turcihin Stern. Devoted aunt of Ayla Turcihin Stern and faithful friend to so many. Lelya fought bravely against Lymphoma. Graduate of
 Jane Reid-Petty, director, playwright and founder of New Stage Theater in Jackson, Miss., died on Thursday in Jackson at the home of her daughter, Diane Petty Maddux. She was 70. The cause was cancer, The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson, Miss., reported. In 1965, Ms. Reid-Petty cr
 ARONS-Gertrude (nee Sonnenshein). Died in Miami Beach, April 24. Beloved mother of Stanley (Loretta), and Jerrold, grandmother of Janet, Richard, Nicole and Paula great-grandmother of Daniel, Stephen, Laura, and Andrew. We will miss her.       
 BERNSTEIN-Lujza (Alice). On April 20, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Solomon Berstein. Devoted mother of Jerry, Miriam and David Finer and Mindy and Philip Sinnreich. Loving grandmother of Leigh, Danny, Meredith, Tamir, Michael and Brooke. Dear greatgrandmother of Raphael, Gavriel, Yael, an
 GENDUSO-Sally. Beloved wife of Anthony, devoted mother of Sandra and Leonard. Loving grandmother of John L., Anthony, and Jeffrey. Much loved by all who knew her; much missed by all who loved her. Services Saturday and Sunday, April 25 and 26, 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM, at Fox Funeral Home, 98-07 A
 MARTUSCELLO-Kathryn Sessa, died at her home in Brooklyn on Wednesday, April 22, 1998. She was eighty-six and died after a long illness. The wake will be held Saturday and Sunday, April 25 and April 26 at Guido Funeral Home, 440 Clinton Street, Brooklyn, New York, 2-5PM and 7-9PM both days. 
 PALL-Helen R. Peacefully, at home, at the age of 80, after a very long illness. Loving and beloved wife of David; cherished mother of Jane Block, Ellen Pall and Richard Dicker, Abigail and Fred Weinshank, the late Stephanie Pall, and Olivia and the late William Pall; doting grandmother of S
 SALOMON-Sophie. Age 88. Beloved wife of the late Mardoqueo I. Salomon. She is survived by her loving children Ruth and Edward King, and Hilel and Iole Salomon. She was the adored ''Nana'' of her grandchildren Judith King, Debbie and Jon Green, Diane and Gideon King, Jonny King and Jacquelin
 WARREN-Vivian Zoe. Beloved mother of Linda Tirdel. Grandmother of Edward Haber. Sister of the late Metropolitan Opera baritone Leonard Warren and the late Martin Warenoff. Passed away April 23. She was an active member of the Metropolitan Opera Club, Chairman of the Board of Directors of th
 COONEY-Margaret B. Formerly of Summit, New Jersey, died on April 16th, 1998 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. She was the beloved wife of the late Vincent T. Cooney, and the loving mother of Mary Ellen Bowes of Mountainside, NJ, Regina Payne of Jupiter, FL, and Clare Ford of Palm Beach Gardens, FL
 PALL-Helen R. Peacefully, at home, at the age of 80, after a very long illness. Loving and beloved wife of David; cherished mother of Jane Block, Ellen Pall and Richard Dicker, Abigail and Fred Weinshank, the late Stephanie Pall, and Olivia and the late William Pall; doting grandmother of S
 PIKE-Rebecca M. Died suddenly and unexpectedly April 21 of cardiac arrest at age 48, near her home in Annadale, New Jersey. An outstanding, accomplished executive and warm, enthusiastic friend to her colleagues at Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A. and her many associates at the Health Care Busine
 ROLLER-Iser. We express our sincere condolences to Anna Roller on the passing of her beloved husband, Iser. As Silver Founders of the ''Hospital with a Heart'' and supporters of the Woman & Infant Center, their generosity has played a vital role in helping to provide comprehensive, state-of
 SIEGEL-Leonora B. On April 25, 1998, in her sleep. Beloved wife of the late Norman Finn. Loving mother of Ruth Stein and Ed Finn. Adoring grandmother and greatgrandmother. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Monday, 12 noon.       
 WARREN-Vivian Zoe. Beloved mother of Linda Tirdel. Grandmother of Edward Haber. Sister of the late Metropolitan Opera baritone Leonard Warren and the late Martin Warenoff. Passed away April 23. She was an active member of the Metropolitan Opera Club, Chairman of the Board of Directors of th
 Anna Kaskas, a contralto who had an association with the Metropolitan Opera from 1936 to 1950, died on March 19 at her home in Wellsboro, Pa. She was 91. At the Met, Ms. Kaskas was valued as a dependable house contralto for smaller roles like Maddalena in ''Rigoletto,'' and the nurs
 Frances Clark, a leading exponent of piano teaching methods, died on April 17 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. She was 93. In 1960, Ms. Clark and a colleague, Louise Goss, founded the New School for Music Study in Kingston, N.J., a research center devoted to the development 
 EHRENWERTH - Bertha. Died April 25, at home in her 99th year. Mother of Dr. Shirley Schine-Carlin and Lois Frankenberger. Grandmother of Cathleen, Eric, Elizabeth and Andrew. Greatgrandmother of Max, Thomas and Charles. Graveside service Scranton, PA, April 28. Family will receive friends t
 ISKOE-Ada S. Attorney, on April 25, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Leland. Loving mother of Deborah Rosenberg and mother-in-law of Dr. Victor Rosenberg. Adored grandmother of Spencer and Ria Rosenberg. Services Monday, April 27, at 12 noon. Interment to follow at United Hebrew Cemetery, Sta
 KESSLER-Mae. On April 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Norman for 56 years. Devoted mother of Ellen and Keith. Dear sister of Mildred and Sylvia and sister-in-law of Jean, Marion, Sam, Sara and Arthur. Services at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, on Wednesday, April 29, at 9:45
 PALL-Helen. The Board of the Nassau County Museum of Art mourns the passing of our fellow trustee and friend - an elegant lady, a patron of the arts, with great generosity of spirit. Our condolences to David and all her family. Nassau County Museum of Art Arnold Saltzman Founding President 
 RETTINGER-Tema (Perse), 93, joined her beloved Abe on April 25, 1998. Devoted mother of Frances and Dr. Solomon Guze, and Dr. Seymour and Charlotte Rettinger. Grandmother and great-grandmother, sister and cherished aunt.       
 WALLACH-Ruth. 77, of 43 Calton Road in New Rochelle and widow of George, died on Thursday, April 23, at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle. A significant figure, she is survived by her children Mary Wallach and Deborah Wallach Toniolo, her grandchildren Benjamin Wallach, Eric Wallac
 ZOULLAS-Louiza. On March 23, 1998 in Lausanne, Switzerland. Widow of Sophocles. Beloved mother of Catia Chapin and Nicholas Zoullas. Adored grandmother of Nicholas and Liza Mortimer, and Sophocles and Alexis Zoullas and great-grandmother of Sofia Zoullas. She was co-founder of St. Michael's
 AUSTERN-Hazel. Passed away Friday, April 24, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Elliott Austern, devoted mother of Steven, Susan (Michael) Korngold, Faye (Steven) Krawitz and Wendy (Uri) Ottensoser, dear sister of Hugh Greenberg and sister-in-law of Beverly Greenberg, loving grandmother of Jona
 BERNSTEIN-Paula. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 CONSTANT-Maud Carter. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins with the physicians and staff of the Departments of Anesthesiology and Administration in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague Maud Carter Constant. She will be sorely misse
 FRISHER-Honey Sondra. On April 26, 1998. Beloved sister of Francie Loupis, loving aunt of Nicole and Michael. Devout and cherished friend of Ilene Berliner. Services Tuesday, 12 PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be made to Historical and Holocaust Art 
 KESSLER-Mae. On April 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Norman for 56 years. Devoted mother of Ellen and Keith. Dear sister of Mildred and Sylvia and sister-in-law of Jean, Marion, Sam, Sara and Arthur. Services at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, on Wednesday, April 29, at 9:45
 KOCH-Pearl (Ferber), 92. Of Forest Hills, NY, passed away on April 26, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Cherished mother of Jerome S. Koch and Gale Baim. Dearest mother-in-law of Judith Koch and Sheldon Baim. Loving grandmother of Ilene Becker, Irene Koch and Ron Adelman, Robert and L
 MERHAN-Harold. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our friend, Councilwoman June Eisland, on the loss of her beloved father, Harold Merhan. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Preside
 NADLER-Sylvia. The National Mah Jongg League mourns the passing of its esteemed past Board member, colleague and friend. She will be sorrowfully missed, but not forgotten. Ruth Unger, President The Board of Directors National Mah Jongg League       
 SKOLNICK-Minnie, died April 26, 1998 at home in her ninty-ninth year. Beloved wife of the late Paul Skolnick. Survived by daughter, Selma Figer and son Raymond Skolnick and daughter-in-law, Francine. Loving grandmother of six grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. She will live in our 
 ABRAMSON-Dr. Belle. On April 27, 1998. Beloved daughter and sister. Service Wednesday 1:30 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. ABRAMSON-Belle, Dr. The Board of Directors of Surprise Lake Camp expresses deep sorrow at the loss of its long time colleague and su
 BARRETT-Fran. Died April 27. Beloved wife of Frank. Loving mother of Jason. Dearly beloved daughter of Dorothy and sister of Alyce. She will live forever in the hearts of all who were touched by her caring, her devotion to her teaching career and her courage.       
 BRAVERMAN-Beverly. On April 28, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Wendy Epstein and Jeffrey and Lore Braverman. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Marc and Michael. Loving great-grandmother of Rachel. Sister of Oscar Safrin. Dear aunt of Phoebe Safrin. She will be mis
 DANIELS-Frances (nee Cooperblum) of Fair Lawn, NJ, Monday, April 27th, 1998. Beloved wife of Dan, devoted sister of Shirley Beckman and her husband Frank, and Evelyn Lacher and her huband Nathan. Loving aunt of Susan Feller, Denise Beckman, Jonathan Beckman, Steven Lacher and David Lacher. 
 LIEBOW-Ruth (nee Schindel). Formerly of Brooklyn, New York, Mahopac, New York, Hollywood, Florida, and Potomac, MD. On April 28, 1998 in her 88th year. Devoted wife of the late Lou Liebow. Loving mother of Stephan and the late Phillis Liebow, Norman and Jane Liebowand Roberta and Thomas Dou
 MAYER-Eleanor S. (Schwarz), 84, of Washington, Maine, died April 26, 1998 at home. Born in New York, of Robert and Sylvia Schwarz, she received a B.S. from Wellesley College, a M.S. from Teachers College, Columbia University and became the nation's first woman brewing chemist at Schwarz Lab
 MERAHN-Harold. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our friend, Councilwoman June Eisland, on the loss of her beloved father, Harold Merhan. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Preside
 Dr. Rena Taub, a psychotherapist and specialist in art therapy in Manhattan and Valley Stream, Long Island, died on April 19 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Valley Stream. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Leon Taub. Dr. Taub collabo
 Florence Skelly Altman, an innovator in opinion research, died on Tuesday at Scottsdale, Ariz., Memorial Hospital. She was 73 and lived in Scottsdale. The cause of death was complications of heart disease, her daughter, Alexandra Altman, said. Ms. Skelly, as she was known pr
 Helen Ward, who sang with the Benny Goodman band in the 1930's, died on April 21 at the Vencor Hospital in Arlington, Va. She was 82 and lived in Falls Church, Va. Ms. Ward's supple voice, her easygoing sense of swing and her alluring stage presence were essential to the Goodman ban
 ABRAMSON-Dr. Belle. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Belle Abramson. A dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation, Belle served with distinction on the board of directors of Surprise Lake Camp, one of our member agencies, and on the board of
 ALTMAN-Florence Skelly. The husband, son and daughter of Florence mourn her passing. She died April 28, 1998 in Scottsdale, Arizona. A memorial service in New York City will be announced.       
 BELEN-Carmelita, M.D. The Staff of the Department of Anesthesiology of the Hosptial for Joint Diseases mourns the loss of their colleague. She will be missed by all, the patients at Joint Diseases whom she treated, especially the children. Ralph L. Bernstein, MD, Chairman       
 DENSA-Sol. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Vally Densa on the loss of her beloved husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 FINCH-Emily Grant. Age 84. Died on April 25, 1998 in Green Valley, Arizona. after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Philip Fiske Finch Jr. and loving mother of Philip III, Catherine (Kay), Christopher and Reynolds. She leaves nine grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren. She was a 
 GOODMAN-Julie. Age 31, after her long and valiant fight, on April 29, 1998. Beloved daughter of Leni Goodman and Stuart Goodman. Loving sister of Cache. Dear niece of Joan L. Ellenbogen. Cherished granddaughter of Harriet Hecht Ellenbogen. Special friend of Lynette Gerald and her loving fam
 SCHWARZ-Ruth Fischer, 82, died April 28. Born Jan. 8, 1916, Vienna, Austria, daughter of Leopold and Elise Meyer Fischer. During WW II served with the British Army in No. Africa. Married Leo Schwarz in 1956. He died in 1995. Received her medical training in Vienna and Palestine. New York re
 VEGHTE-Mary Alice. Of New York City and Canajoharie, New York, died on April 28, 1998 at the age of 75 following a short illness. A graduate of Smith College, she was administrative officer of the tax department at Brown Brothers Harriman for forty-three years. She was an enthusiastic volun
 ZAKHAI-Helen. The Yeshiva University Museum family is shocked and saddened by the sudden passing of our cherished docent. Her love of learning and her innate enthusiasm and warmth endeared her to all of us. We extend our deepest condolences to her entire family. Sylvia A. Herskowitz, Direct
