 Agnes Eisenberger, a manager of classical musicians who was the president and owner of Colbert Artists Management, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 79 and lived in New York City and Pawling, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Charlotte Schroeder, who succee
 Mary Wesley, the popular British author whose sensual and often bitingly witty novels were not published until she reached her 70's, died on Monday in Totnes, Devon, her hometown in rural southwest England. She was 90. Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she w
 Mary Brian, a film star and memorable ingénue who bridged the silent and early sound eras, died on Monday in Del Mar, Calif. She was 96 and lived in Los Angeles. Between ''Peter Pan'' in 1924 and ''Dragnet'' in 1947 Ms. Brian appeared in 82 films. Petite, with blue-gray eyes and da
 Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who made advances in the study of perception and learning processes in children, died on Dec. 30 in Columbia, S.C. She was 92. Photographs of the ''visual cliff,'' a device she developed to study depth perception in infants an
 Yayori Matsui, a journalist and campaigner for the rights of Asian women, died on Dec. 27 at a Tokyo hospital. She was 68 and a resident of Tokyo. The cause was liver cancer, said an associate, Norma Field, professor of Japanese studies at the University of Chicago. Dr. Field said M
 Jean Kerr, whose wry wit and unerring eye for life's everyday absurdities kept legions of readers and theatergoers laughing with books like ''Please Don't Eat the Daisies'' and plays like ''Mary, Mary,'' died on Sunday in White Plains. She was 80. The apparent cause was pneumonia, h
 Nearly 50 years after the death of her son, Emmett Till, who was murdered and thrown into a river in Mississippi, Mamie Till Mobley died here today, still clinging to the hope for justice. She was 81. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, speaking tonight at a news conference on behalf of the fam
 Sarah McClendon, the tiny, klaxon-voiced White House reporter who covered, pestered, lectured and often infuriated presidents since Franklin D. Roosevelt, chiefly as the leader of her one-woman McClendon News Service, died today at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center here. She was 92.      
 Monique Wittig, a French writer and literary theorist whose imaginative, fiercely innovative books tried to create a new mythology for the feminist movement, died Jan. 3 in Tucson. She was 67 and lived in Tucson. The cause was a heart attack, said Sande Zeig, her partner. In
 Eleanore Pettersen, a New Jersey architect who helped lead the way for women in her profession, died on Wednesday at her home in Saddle River, N.J. She was 86. In 1950, Ms. Pettersen, who had worked as an apprentice to Frank Lloyd Wright, became one of the first women to be licensed
 Françoise Giroud, a widely admired French journalist who co-founded the political weekly L'Express and later served as France's first minister of women's affairs, died Sunday in the American Hospital of Paris. She was 86. Her daughter said the cause of death was head injuries suffe
 Evelyn Abrams Mauss, whose lifelong political activism began when she organized the Junior International League for Peace and Freedom as a 14-year-old in 1929, died on Saturday at the Peninsula Hospital Center in Queens. She was 87 and lived in the Neponsit section of Queens. She ha
 Irene Diamond, who after a successful career scouting scripts and talent in Hollywood became a major benefactor of the arts and medical research in New York City, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 92. At her death, she was president of the Irene D
 Sarah Pettit, a founding editor and former editor in chief of Out magazine, one of the first gay and lesbian publications with mainstream status, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 36. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 
 Nell Carter, the robustly sassy singer and actress who exploded onto the New York musical stage in the Fats Waller revue ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and went on to become a popular television star in the series ''Gimme a Break!,'' died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 54.  
 Doris Fisher, a songwriter whose lighthearted, sentimental tunes became hits for the Ink Spots, Ella Fitzgerald and the Mills Brothers in the 1930's and 40's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 87. Among Ms. Fisher's songs, all written with a co-author, were ''Whispering Gras
 Rae Carlson, a psychologist who helped shape the study of personality with her 1971 paper ''Where Is the Person in Personality Research?'', died on Monday in Fairfax, Va. She was 76. The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter Leslie Carlson-Soloway. Dr. Carlson's paper was p
 Celia Stein, a co-founder of The Riverdale Press, died on Jan. 11 at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was 90. Mrs. Stein and her husband, David A. Stein, who died in 1982, founded The Press in their living room in 1950 as a weekly community newsletter, and she rem
 Sally Michel Avery, an artist, illustrator and widow of the painter Milton Avery, died on Jan. 9. She was 100 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Avery was born in Brooklyn in 1902 and studied painting at the Art Students League. She met her husband in Gloucester, Mass., in 1924 when he wa
