 Frances B. Sonz, a retired painter and art teacher in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died on April 12 at her home in Tiburon, Calif., where she had lived for 10 years. She was 84. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Sonz grew up in New York City and earned a degree in fine arts 
 FELDMAN-Dinah. Widow of Mike. Mother of Arthur and Eleanor. Grandmother of Ellen, Jessica, Amy and Joanne. Greatgrandmother of Megan, David, Leslie, Daniel, Benjamin & Sarah. Died peacefully in her sleep in her ninety-eighth year on April 29th. She will be lovingly remembered.       
 GOODMAN-Julie. Age 31, after her long and valiant fight, on April 29, 1998. Beloved daughter of Leni Goodman and Stuart Goodman. Loving sister of Cache. Dear niece of Joan L. Ellenbogen. Cherished granddaughter of Harriet Hecht Ellenbogen. Special friend of Lynette Gerald and her loving fam
 ROMERO-Mary Smith Allen. On April 29th, 1998. Beloved wife of Rudy and loving mother of Dolores. Born on September 10, 1940 in Cleveland, Ohio, Mary was a dedicated nurse and consummate artist and wonderful friend. She is survived by her husband and daughter, three brothers Archibald, Thoma
 SCUDDER-Louise Fry. Of Gulfstream, FL. and Lake Placid, New York. Died on April 28 at age 78 following a courageous battle with cancer. She was an enthusiastic volunteer for many charitable organizations. She was the beloved wife of Edward W. Scudder. Devoted mother of Katherine (Tiballi), 
 MILLER-Ann Rosenthal. Age 63 on April 30, 1998, of Scarsdale, NY, after a long and courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Dear wife of William S. Miller. Loving mother of Elizabeth M. and Randolph Guggenheimer, III, Mark R. and Tonya Miller, Rachel L. Miller, and Steven W. Miller. Beloved g
 Maria Torok, a psychoanalyst in France whose rejection of Freud's ideas was welcomed in feminist circles and whose new methods for confronting pain and trauma drew many Holocaust survivors to her offices in Paris, died on March 25 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 
 BERLINER-Ethel. On May 1, 1998. Age 91. Devoted sister of David Berliner. She will be sadly missed by family and friends. Service Sunday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 GUILLERMO-Ellen J. (nee Ash). Beloved wife of Frederico. Wonderful daughter of Arthur Ash and the late Mildred (Silver) Ash. Sister of Kenneth N. Ash & sister-inlaw Terri Rojna Ash. Succumbed to a long, valiant battle of metastatic breast cancer on April 21, 1998. Donations in her memory ma
 KNOX-Irmgard. Beloved mother of Ruth Knox Ruiz died April 27, 1998 in Miami, Florida. Born in Winsen-an-der-Luhe, Germany as Irmgard Sophie Minna Caroline Eckermann, she was affectionately known by her friends and family as Aimee. A life-long resident of Manhattan, Aimee moved to Bayside, N
 McLEAN-Janet G. Newspaper Librarian, 82, who retired in the late 1960s as a librarian with the Washington bureau of the New York Times, died of breast cancer April 26 at her home in the Lewisdale neighborhood of West Hyattsville. She was a native of Chicago who performed as a piano soloist 
 MOSES-Peggy L. Louise Wise Services for Children and Families mourns the passing of our esteemed Honorary Board Member and friend, Peggy L. Moses. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles and their entire family. Glenna R. Michaels, President       
 PITMAN-Adriane Kleban. On April 26, 1998 in San Antonio, TX. Daughter of the late Francis and Helaine Kleban. She leaves her husband, Michael Pitman of San Antonio, two sons, and four grandchildren. A free spirit with a zest for life, she will be missed.       
 SCHILLER-Anne Orlikoff. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY and Stratford, CT died May 1 in North Branford, CT at age 86. Born in Brooklyn and a graduate of Barnard College, she was for many years a beloved teacher and librarian in the NYC public schools. Her warmth, kindness and generosity won her in
 SMITH-Alice, April 21, 1998. Services were private. Deeply devoted to the performing arts. Family and many friends mourn her passing.       
 VEGHTE-Mary Alice. Of New York City and Canajoharie, New York, died on April 28, 1998 at the age of 75 following a short illness. A graduate of Smith College, she was administrative officer of the tax department at Brown Brothers Harriman for forty-three years. She was an enthusiastic volun
 CISYK-Kacey. April 4, 1953-March 29, 1998. The family and friends of our beloved Kacey would like to invite you to a memorial service to be held on Sunday, May 17, 1998 at 4:30 P.M., at St. Bartholomew's Church, 50 Street & Park Avenue. Please join in a celebration of Kacey's life, her uniq
 KELLY-Tricia A. Her friends will be saddened to hear that Tricia passed away at her home in Williamsburg, Virginia last October 21, 1997. She moved there three years ago from her East 73 Street home. She sang in both the Saint Bartholomew and the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Choirs. Her memo
 BERLINER-Ethel. On May 1, 1998. Age 91. Devoted sister of David Berliner. She will be sadly missed by family and friends. Service Monday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FELDMAR-Maria. Age 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Erno Feldmar. Died peacefully Sunday, May 3. Memorial service at a later date. Contributions in her memory to United Jewish Appeal.       
 GRUSHACK-Cynthia. The Board, Staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, mourn the passing of Cynthia Gruschack, who served over the years as assistant to our founder, Jack Hausman. Both at Belding Heminway and since 1994 at UCP, she helped to assure support for our vital s
 HOFFMAN-Pauline Lillian Kletter. Beloved sister of Clara Kletter Unterberg. Adored aunt of Adele and Roberta. Cherished grandaunt of Charles Joshua. Passed away Friday, May 1, 1998. She will be lovingly remembered and never forgotten. HOFFMAN-Pauline Lillian (nee Kletter). Passed aw
 LITTERST-Stacy Anne. Of Oakland, NJ, died March 29, 1998, at the home of her sister, Deborah Anne Litterst Barbara, in Alexandria, VA. Beloved daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry B. Litterst, of Oakland, and the late Anne Stewart Litterst, sisters Mary Litterst, of Brookline, MA., Terry Litterst
 MOSES-Peggy. Westchester Jewish Community Services mourns the death of Peggy Moses, beloved, former Board President. Formerly of White Plains, Peggy will be sorely missed by all who were touched by her life.       
 SKELLY - ALTMAN - Florence. The staff, clients and friends of DYG, Inc., express their profound sorrow on the passing of their cherished colleague, Florence Skelly. Her wit and brilliance will be deeply missed. A memorial service is planned for early June. Please call 203-744-9008 for furth
 BERMAN-Alice, 89. Of Hollywood, FL. Passed away May 3, 1998. She is survived by her loving daughter Virginia (Neil) Brandfon, devoted grandchildren, Mitchel Brandfon, Terri Maue and Gail Porto, ten cherished great grandchildren, sisters-in-law, Mildred (Phil) Nierenberg, Myra Berman, and br
 BROOKS-Sarah. Age thirty-one. Passed away May 2, surrounded by family. Survived by her parents, sisters, brothers-in-law, nieces and nephews. Beloved first grade teacher at P.S. 175Q. Contributions in her memory to Sarah Brooks Memorial Fund/P.S. 175Q or Camp Simcha.       
 FELDMAR-Maria. We mourn the passing of Maria, widow of Dr. Ernest Feldmar. May her soul rest comfortably reunited with her beloved husband. The Allon and Kurz Families       
 FLEMING-Josephine. Widow of John Fleming. Mother of Joan and Carol. Died March 20, 1998 in Phoenix, Arizona. Well known throughout the rare book community from her early days at the Rosenbach Company, to her many activities with her husband John, the legendary successor to Dr. A.S.W. Rosenb
 KINN-Sonia. The League Treatment Center Board and Staff express their deepest sympathy to the family of Sonia Kinn, Holocaust resistance fighter in the Abramov Group in White Russia, who died on Sunday, May 3rd. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend, Sonia will be deeply missed by al
 McFARLAND-Kathryn Elizabeth (Kathy). August 9, 1962-April 28, 1998. Kathy has gone home to God after an all too short stay on Earth. She will forever be alive in our hearts, our prayers, our thoughts. Funeral was held Friday, May 1, 1998. The McFarland Family       
 WOLFF-Anne K. In loving memory of Anne K. Wolff. Anne was a wonderful grandmother and mother, cherished and treasured for her infinite wisdom & unending love, kindness and indomitable spirit. She will be dearly missed & remembered forever by Janine, Steven, Nancy and Bradford. Her caring na
 Dr. Emily Mudd, a onetime college dropout who trained to be a landscape architect before the trajectory of her life and her own inner fire led her to become a pioneering marriage and family counselor, died on Saturday at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 99 and widely regarded as a giant o
 Nancy Hoepli-Phalon, the editor in chief of the Manhattan-based Foreign Policy Association, died last Thursday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 67. The cause was cancer, her family said. The association is a nonpartisan organization founded in 1918 to educate the pu
 Natasha Gelman, who with her husband, Jacques, amassed an outstandingly fine group of 20th-century European paintings and sculptures and who was a friend and patron of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and many other Mexican painters, died on Saturday at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico, after a long
 A'HEARN-Ruth A. (nee Donovan) On May 4, 1998 in her 98th year. Of Garden City, N.Y. Formerly of East Atlantic Beach, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late Frank B. A'Hearn. Loving mother of Ruth Mallon, Jeanne Maloney and Francis A'Hearn. Cherished grandmother of 24 & great-greatgrandmother of 50. 
 BOHANAN-Shirley V. My secretary of many years. A kind, loving, compassionate woman who taught me much about friendship and what's truly important in life. I am so grateful. My deepest sympathies to her family and her many friends. Donald T. Fredrickson, M.D.       
 EPSTEIN-Ethel S., 83. Died at her home in Manhattan on May 4. Wife of the late Benjamin Epstein. Mother of Ellen Howe and David and Kate Epstein. Aunt of Thomas J. Schwarz. Grandmother of Benjamin, Caroline and Louis Howe and Lillian, Grace and Raphael Epstein. Service Friday, 12:30PM, Fran
 GELLES-Etta. Of North Miami Beach, Florida, passed away on May 5, 1998. Widow of Irving, she is survived by children Charles (Brenda) Gelles of Manhattan and Diane (Bruce) Goldberg of Mamaroneck. A gracious and loving person, she will be missed. Services Thursday noon at Riverside 114-03 Qu
 GELMAN-Natasha. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Natasha Gelman, passionate collector and generous donor who bequeathed as the legacy of herself and her late husband Jacques an unparalleled collection of 20thcentury European masterworks. She grac
 HEDGES-Camille F. (nee Fenn). 83, of Sag Harbor, New York, died May 4, 1998 at the Good Samaritan Nursing Home in Socorro, New Mexico. She was predeceased by husband, Thomas B. Hedges. She is survived by daughter, Kathleen, and her husband, Walter Jon Williams of Belen, NM; daughter, Alice 
 MANDELL-Sarah. In her 105th year. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother to Gertrude Weitzner, Howard Mann and the late Charles Mandell. Adored grandmother of Dee Shapiro, Lee Wild, Eric Mann, Michael Mandell, Richard Mann, Randi Morantz and Robert Weitzner. Great grandmother of 18 
 OSTROFF-Sandra. Died May 4, Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania. She will always live in the hearts of her survivors; daughters Alison and Debra Gottlieb, father Harold Ostroff, sister Maddy Braun and brother-in-law Philip Braun. Contributions may be made to The Scholarship Fund, Workmen's Circl
 ROBERTS-Pamela A. Passed away peacefully, surrounded by friends and family, May 4, 1998. She was a loving mother and a much loved daughter, sister and friend, and a very talented artist. Much admired in L.A.'s underground art community. She is survived, and greatly missed, by her loving com
 SCHENKEL-Lillie. On May 5, 1998. Loving mother of Myra and Michael, devoted grandmother of Walter. May she rest in peace. Services Thursday 9:45 A.M. at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave., New York City.       
 A'HEARN-Ruth A. (nee Donovan) On May 4, 1998 in her 98th year. Of Garden City, N.Y. Formerly of East Atlantic Beach, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late Frank B. A'Hearn. Loving mother of Ruth Mallon, Jeanne Maloney and Francis A'Hearn. Cherished grandmother of 24 & great-grandmother of 50. Visit
 AVNER-Ellen (nee Rosenblatt). Beloved wife of Kenneth. Devoted mother of Rachel, Julie, Shaya and Leah. Cherished daughter of Irving Obadiah and Frances Rosenblatt and daughter-in-law of Frances Avner. Dear sister of David (Bonnie) Rosenblatt. Services and interment were held Monday. In lie
 CUSACK-Yvonne. Died peacefully in New York at her home on Tuesday, May 5, in the company of her beloved husband of 46-1/2 years, Maurice. The members of the Board of The Spanish Institute express their deepest condolence. Yvonne, a dear friend of the Institute and of all things Spanish, tra
 EPSTEIN-Ethel S., 83. Died at her home in Manhattan on May 4. Wife of the late Benjamin Epstein. Mother of Ellen Howe and David and Kate Epstein. Aunt of Thomas J. Schwarz. Grandmother of Benjamin, Caroline and Louis Howe and Lillian, Grace and Raphael Epstein. Service Friday, 12:30PM, Fran
 FRIEDMAN-Heidi Carol, 55. Suddenly. Loved by all for her kindness, elegance and spirit. Survived by mother Selma Price, Arthur Friedman, children Lewis & Julie (Alan Koffler) and grandson Max. Loving sister, niece and devoted aunt. Service on Thursday 10 A.M., Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Stre
 HERZ-Lydia. P.E.F. Israel Endowment Funds, Inc. mourns the loss of one of our early supporters who established a fund for philanthropy in Israel, as a measure of her devotion to the Jewish people and the State of Israel. We offer our condolences to her family. Sydney Luria, B. Harrison Fran
 MALEWSKI-Kathleen. On May 6, of Manhasset NY. Dear mother of Alexander Jr., Kathy Nihill, Karen Scaduto, Debbie and Robert. Mother-in-law of Renee, Chris & Bob. Loving grandmother of Kristen, Marissa, Matthew, Elizabeth, Krystyna, Katherine, Robert and Brian. In repose at The Fairchild Fune
 SIMMONS-Augusta H. Of Palm Beach, FL, passed away May 5, 1998. Widow of Herbert L. She is survived by her daughter Marjorie and son-in-law Rodney Fink. She is also survived by several nieces and nephews. Donations may be made to the charity of your choice. For information contact the Rivers
 CRUICKSHANK-Jill Gorham. On May 5, 1998. Loving aunt of Ilisa Barbash of Berkeley, CA., and Thomas Barbash of Menlo Park, California. Cherished sister of the late Heather Livingston Barbash, beloved daughter of the late Blanche Livingston Glickman and Ira Livingston. She is also survived by
 EPSTEIN-Ethel S., 83. Died at her home in Manhattan on May 4. Wife of the late Benjamin Epstein. Mother of Ellen Howe and David and Kate Epstein. Aunt of Thomas J. Schwarz. Grandmother of Benjamin, Caroline and Louis Howe and Lillian, Grace and Raphael Epstein. Service Friday, 12:30PM, Fran
 KAHN-Sheila. Wife of Ezra Kahn of Boca Raton, FL., died Monday in Tamarac, Florida, after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn in 1935, she attended the University of Michigan & graduated Cum Laude from Adelphi University. She taught for several years at Mark Twain Junior High School. Surviving
 MARCUS-Ruth. On May 6, 1998, in her 81st year. Beloved wife of Herman Marcus, devoted mother of Jo-Ann Kalb and Linda Marcus Sherry, dear sister of Shirley Saposnick, Milton Lampell, and the late Herman Lempel, cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Jamie Kalb, and Dana Sherry. Service Frida
 NEWMAN-Lenore. Died quietly at home on May 6 in her apartment in New York City. Family and friends join together in sorrow at the departure of this caring, loving person who carried her professional social work training as a way of life. She retired from Roosevelt-St. Luke's Hospital as sup
 PAGE-Sarah. On May 7th, 1998. Beloved wife of 61 years to Mack. Loving mother of Leonard and Richard. Devoted grandmother of Brian. She will be missed by all. Funeral service will be held on Sunday, May 10, 9:30AM, Garlick Memorial Chapel, 1700 Coney Island Ave, Bklyn, NY. Donations in her 
 SABSEVITZ-Emma. Of Miami Beach, formerly of New York City. Passed away May 7, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Irving Sabsevitz. She is survived by loving son, Arnold L. (Lite) Sabin. Cherished grandchildren Barbara (Stephen) Miller, Charles (Merril) Gottesman, Jill (Charles) Garner, Dr. Jame
 Sybil Connolly, who designed the linen dress that Jacqueline Kennedy wore in her White House portrait and who elevated Irish style to high fashion, died on Wednesday at her home in Dublin. She was 77. She had a heart attack, said a family member, John Connolly. Miss Connolly
 MAGRAM-Bernice. Age 84. Beloved mother of Richard Magram and Judith Ladd. Grandmother and great grandmother. Preceded in death by Louis Magram. Genuinely kind and generous and adored by all who knew her. We will miss you.       
 NEWMAN-Lenore. Died quietly at home on May 6 in her apartment in New York City. Family and friends join together in sorrow at the departure of this caring, loving person who carried her professional social work training as a way of life. She retired from Roosevelt-St. Luke's Hospital as sup
 SABSEVITZ-Emma, 96. Of Miami Beach. Formerly of New York City, on May 7, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Irving Sabsevitz. Loving mother of Arnold L. & Lite Sabin, the late Natalie (Nibs) Sabin Gottesman and the late Judith Sabin Meisel. Cherished grandmother of Barbara and Stephen Miller, C
 Alice Faye, one of the few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career, died yesterday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was in her mid-80's. The cause was cancer, according to her publicity company, Jewel Baxter, which said she had had tw
 BISK-Kathryn Appel. In Princeton, MA, May 6, 1998. Treasured wife of Richard. Devoted mother of Megan, Brittany and Joshua. Loving daughter of Bunny and Jack. Cherished sister of Frederic. Beloved teacher of many. She will always live in our hearts.       
 DE BARBIERI - Evelyn nee Roberts. At Montreal on May 3, 1998 at the age of 75 years, Evelyn born in Montreal, Quebec passed away in the presence of her children. Daughter of the late Leontine Seguin and the late Albert Roberts. Wife of the late Lt. Col. Thomas F. De Barbieri. She is survive
 NEWMAN-Lenore. Died quietly at home on May 6 in her apartment in New York City. Family and friends join together in sorrow at the departure of this caring, loving person who carried her professional social work training as a way of life. She retired from Roosevelt-St. Luke's Hospital as sup
 OFSHE-Ida. On May 8, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Daniel. Loving mother of Pat and Fran. Adoring grandmother of Benjamin. Dear sister of Herman and the late Jerome Eisenman. A loving protector of all creatures great and small. She will be deeply missed. Memorial service Monday, 1:15 PM, a
 Alice Faye, one of the few movie stars to walk away from stardom at the peak of her career, died Saturday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was in her mid-80's. The cause was cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Jewel Baxter, who said she had had two stomach
 Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 LISS-Pauline. On May 9, 1998. Beloved wife of Ernest. Loving mother of Michael and Marcia. Adoring and adored Bubbie of Daniel, Rachel and one grandchild to be. Dear sister of Goldie Karan. Devoted to daughter-in-law Debbie and son-in-law John. Never was there a finer, more decent person, w
 McNAB-Marilyn. On May 5, 1998. Beloved sister of Ann Chawner & aunt of Craig Chawner. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Wednesday at 4:30PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Calvary Hospital, Bronx, New York.       
 Clara Rockmore, a musician who was trained as a violinist but became famous principally as a soloist on the theremin, an early electronic instrument, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The theremin, invented in 1920 by Leon Theremin, produces a pure, eerie, sliding
 BACH-Reva T. On May 10, 1998. Loving wife of the late Morris. Mother of Judith Iris Bach and Ilene Heidi Amar, mother-in-law of Yehuda Amar, grandmother of Yishai Ben and Medad Arik Amar and aunt to many beloved nieces and nephews. Loved by all her family and friends who remember her with l
 EREZ-Vardena. 1939-1998. Died suddenly in Tel-Aviv, Israel. Beloved friend of many years. She will be sorely missed. The Sanders Family       
 LEBACH-Grete (nee Weilheimer), 88, on May 10, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Erich. Beloved mother of Dorothy and Joan. Adored Oma of Netanya. Services Wednesday, May 13, 1 P.M., at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, NY. Any contributions to Temple Beth El. LEBACH-Grete. T
 LEVINE-Anna H. of West Orange, NJ, on Sunday May 10, 1998. Wife of the late Morris J. Mother of Howard H. and the late H. Leonard, Dr. Robert H., and Beatrice. Dear mother-in-law of Jacqueline, Yetta, and Joan. Also survived by eight grandchildren and 14 greatgrandchildren. Graveside servic
 ROCKMORE-Clara. On May 10, 1998, at the age of 88. Violin protege of Leopold Auer, pre-eminent virtuoso of the Theremin, now reunited with her pianist sister, Nadia Reisenberg. Mourned by her other beloved sister, Anna Sherman, her nephews Alexander, Robert and Ron, their children and the f
 SHAFFER-Bea. Died, as she lived, peacefully and at peace, at ninetythree, on May 1, 1998 in West Palm Beach where she & her late and beloved husband, Joe, had lived happily since 1969. Daughter of the late Sarah and Paul Leibowitz, sister of the late Ruth White, she took great joy and pride
 Kerris Ann Wolsky, the president and founding director of Harlem Textile Works, died on May 3 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens. She was 41. The cause was a severe asthma attack, said James Pringle, her companion. Harlem Textile Works began in 1984 as a part of the Chil
 APPEL-Zeldy July 23, 1916 - May 8, 1998. A sparkling star flashed her eternal light-streaked across the heavens for a moment-now in our hearts forever. Family asks that donations go to the Fresh Air Fund, NYC. Memorial May 24, 1998. For details contact family members in FL.       
 BEDINE-Sylvia (Block). Of Delray Beach, FL. Formerly of Hewlett, N.Y. ON May 11, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Alexander, loving mother of Barbara Menachem, and Marshall and Richard Bedine, sister of Sidney Block, cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Matthew and Jeremy Bedine, Andrew, Fred, S
 CROWLEY-Katharine T. May 12, 1998. Survived only by her nieces and nephews. Memorial Service Friday, May 15th in Farmington, MI. Interment Holy Sepulchre Mausoleum, Southfield, MI. Memorial tributes to Angela Hospice, 14100 Newburgh Rd, Livonia, MI 48154. Heeney-Sundquist Funeral Home, Farm
 GUTTIERES-Jen. On May 9, 1998. She is survived by her loving son Alexander and dear brother Philip Mariani. Funeral Mass at Saint John the Evangelist, 55th Street and 1st Ave, NYC, Thursday, May 14th 11AM. Interment to follow at Calvary Cemetery. Donations in Jen's memory may be made to Sai
 HAIMES-Madelaine (Mady). Dearest beloved wife for 51 years of Alex. Ever loving mother of Ted and Barbara. Devoted daughter to the late Willy and Anna Reiner. Fond aunt to many nieces and nephews. Services 11AM Thursday May 14, Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. Family will receiv
 KAYNE-Belle Saunders. It is with sadness that the staff and volunteers of The Jewish Museum note the loss of Belle Saunders Kayne, longtime devoted and talented volunteer and friend to the Museum. We remember Belle fondly and will certainly miss her. Our condolences to her family and friend
 ROCKMORE-Clara. On May 10, 1998, at the age of 88. Violin protege of Leopold Auer, pre-eminent virtuoso of the Theremin, now reunited with her pianist sister, Nadia Reisenberg. Mourned by her other beloved sister, Anna Sherman, her nephews Alexander, Robert and Ron, their children and the f
 RUBIN-Chala. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted member, Wolf Rubin. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President       
 COMNAS-Jo Ann B. Of Bridgehampton, New York, on May 11, 1998. Predeceased by her husband George in November 1997, Survived by her sons Basil G. of Dushanbe, Tajikistan; and Demetrie G. of London, U.K., and her daughter Aspasia Comnas Neuman of Wainscott, New York. She is also survived by he
 CONDON-Deborah Gail Victoria (nee Hanrahan). On Wednesday, May 13th, 1998. Beloved wife of Kevin Condon. Devoted mother of Katherine, John & Bryan Condon. Dear sister of John J. Hanrahan, Jr., Christopher Hanrahan & David Foley. Loving daughter of Joan (Corke) Hanrahan & the late John J. Ha
 JOHNSON-Betty Jean (nee Gibson). Died suddenly on May 13, 1998. Mrs. Johnson was a teacher for many years at The Browning School. Beloved wife of Glenn. Loving mother of Marta Judson, Mark and Craig. Cherished grandmother. For service information, call Frank E. Campbell at 212 288-3500.    
 LANGFAN - Hannah (Hankie). Died on Tuesday, May 12, 1998. Beloved daughter of the late Max and Mary Langfan. Cherished sister of William and Barbara, and the late Rubin and Janet. Caring sister-in-law of Marion and Hilda. Devoted aunt of Lorraine and Alex, Robin and Jay, Mark and Sherri, Da
 OSHINS-Susan Reingold. Cherished wife of the late Alfred Beno Oshins, devoted mother of E.J., Jo Ann, & son-in-law Ray, treasured sister of Barbara Diamond, Joyce Baumgarten, and the late Ruth Joseph, loving aunt, and loyal friend. Our 'SuSu'. A New Yorkers' New Yorker. Shared her energy, v
 RUBIN-Ruth (Rovner). May 13, 1998. Wife of Jerome. Mother of Dr. Harvey (Elizabeth) Rubin and the late Adrienne Davidson. Grandmother of Karen, Elaine, Matthew and Benjamin. Great grandmother of Erica and Allison. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services Friday 1PM at Goldstein
 SIEGEL-Dr. Laura, age 49, of Shokan, N.Y. and NYC, on May 10, after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Laura was the beloved and loving wife of Chrissandy Rodulfo and devoted stepmother to Damien, Nicholas, and Jaaron. She is survived by father Martin and brother Paul. Laura was a cheri
 Marjory Stoneman Douglas, the spirited writer and environmentalist who was known as the patron saint of the Florida Everglades for her ceaseless campaign to preserve the fragile wetlands, died yesterday at her home in Miami. She was 108. Mrs. Douglas, who prevailed in recent years o
 HAIMES-Madelaine. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Madelaine Haimes. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, Pr
 JOHNSON-Betty Jean (nee Gibson). Died suddenly on May 13, 1998. Mrs. Johnson was a teacher for many years at The Browning School. Beloved wife of Glenn. Loving mother of Marta Judson, Mark and Craig. Cherished grandmother. Memorial service Friday, May 15, 2PM, St. James Episcopal Church, 86
 KING-Ida Bell. On May 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Lloyd, Sr. Survived by her two sons, Lloyd, Jr., and Ronald, her granddaughter Roni, her grandsons, Terry, Jeffery, Rodney and Todd, and her two great-grandchildren, Chloe and Major. Funeral services Friday, 10 AM, at St. James Presby
 OSHINS-Susan Reingold. Cherished wife of the late Alfred Beno Oshins, devoted mother of E.J., Jo Ann, & son-in-law Ray, treasured sister of Barbara Diamond, Joyce Baumgarten, and the late Ruth Joseph, loving aunt, and loyal friend. Our 'SuSu'. A New Yorkers' New Yorker. Shared her energy, v
 RAINES-Barbara G., PhD. Died peacefully on May 14 at the age of 89. She is survived by her two children Martha Raines Burt and Richard C. Raines, her loving sister Mildred (Mimi) Adler, and her brother Bernard Goldberg. Dr. Raines served as the first woman appointed Leader by the Society fo
 SPARBER-Beatrice. Beloved wife (59 years) of Norman. Dearest mother of Merryl & Roy. Darling grandmother & great grandmother. She leaves a tremendous void in all of our lives. Services are at Gutterman's in Rockville Centre on Sunday, May 17 at 12:15 P.M.       
 TAFT-Bunnee L. In Norwalk, CT, on May 13, 1998. Predeceased by husband, Allen R. Taft, and son, James Gordon Taft. Devoted mother of Denise Taft Davidoff of Norwalk, CT, sister of Robert Zuckerman of Valley Stream, NY, Martin Zuckerman of Buffalo Grove, IL, grandmother of Douglass Taft Davi
 WEILER-Annette. On May 13, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Edwin. Loving mother of Elaine Asch-Root and special mother to Mildred Guzman. Cherished grandmother to Andrew and Thomas and special friend of Altagracia Nunoz. Services private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Humane
 SILVER-Esther Doner. Beloved wife of the late Milton Liszt Silver, of a heart attack on May 11, 1998. A leading social work professional in New York, and the Midwest, and a winner of the Presidential Medal of Freedom in World War II, she was ninety-one. Survived by her sister, Margaret Buck
 SPARBER-Beatrice. Beloved wife (59 years) of Norman. Dearest mother of Merryl & Roy. Darling grandmother & great grandmother. She leaves a tremendous void in all of our lives. Services are at Gutterman's in Rockville Centre on Sunday, May 17 at 12:15 P.M.       
 WOLFF-Blanche Silver. The family of the late and beloved Blanche Silver Wolff wish to inform you of the Unveiling of her Memorial Sunday May 17, 1998, 1pm, Wellwood Cemetery, Pine Lawn, Long Island.       
 BOZYAN-Margaret Bliss. Of Hamden, CT, and Middletown, RI. Died at home on May 13 at age 97. The widow of H. Frank Bozyan, Yale University Organist Emeritus, she is survived by four children, Elinor B. Warburg, Gladys B. Lavine, Margaret B. Jefferys and Frank Arakel Bozyan; eleven grandchild
 de BOWER-Luana, age 87. Died May 5, 1998 after a long illness. Devoted godmother of John W. Ryan, III and great aunt of David Andrew, nieces Kyle and Lisa of Sydney, Australia. Donations please to her favorite charity, Intergroup and American Red Cross, c/o Dolores Swern, 150 Amsterdam Aven
 KAFIN-Bonnie Deborah. November 1, 1947-May 3, 1998. At home in Coconut Creek, FL. Formerly of Philadelphia. Beloved daughter of Ann and Jacob, sister of Robert & William, aunt to Tammy, Peter, Philip, Joshua, and Sabrina. Her love of music, nature, literature, and caring for others will alw
 LEON-Lillie (nee Kornhaber). On May 16, 1998. Passed away peacefully, early Saturday morning. Devoted wife of the late Jacob. Beloved mother of Carla and Tonia. Cherished grandmother of Danny, Jeff, Jessica and David. Proud great-grandmother of Jacob. She was a lover of learning and of natu
 MacIVER-Loren. Died peacefully at her home in Greenwich Village, NY, on May 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late poet and critic Lloyd Frankenberg. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. As we move forward, her extraordinary spirit lives through our memories and her art. At Lor
 PHILIPS-Elsie. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Benjamin Philips. Loving mother of Jessica and Robert Morgenstern and Marcy Philips. Devoted grandmother of Amy Morgenstern and Becca Philips. She will be missed. Contributions in her memory may be made to the charity of your choice.       
 SILAGI-Selma. Died February 23, 1998 in San Diego, CA. Respected for distinguished genetic research at Cornell Medical College; mourned by Robert, her husband of 61 years; children, Daniel Silagi of Flemington, New Jersey, Laura Hathaway of Los Angeles, and grandson, Simeon.       
 SILVERMAN-Gertrude. On May 12, 1998. Age 88, at her home in Clifton, NJ. She was the devoted wife of the late Dr. Irving Silverman and the loving mother of Hannah Bresslour of Passaic, NJ, Joy and Dr. Joseph Silverman of Tenafly, NJ, Kay and Dr. Michael Silverman of Memphis, TN. and Drs. Et
 SKLAR-Muriel. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member's wife, Muriel Sklar and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Jack and her children Barry and Penni. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary  
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. Connie - an extraordinary wife, mother, grandmother, human being, who immeasurably enriched the lives of all who knew her. She will be terribly missed. With love, Agnes Gund and Daniel Shapiro       
 MacIVER-Loren. Died peacefully at her home in Greenwich Village, NY, on May 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late poet and critic Lloyd Frankenberg. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. As we move forward, her extraordinary spirit lives through our memories and her art. At Lor
 SHAPIRO-Marion. A strong and beautiful woman, died on May 14, at the age of 85, in San Francisco. Formerly from New York City, Port Washington, and Delray Beach. Loving daughter of Yetta and Nathan Britt. Beloved wife of Nat Shapiro. She is loved and missed by her children, Richard and Judi
 SLIFKA-Belle. Devoted mother of Ruth Mindling, Lew Spence, and Evelyn Dilloff. Beloved grandmother of Jim Mindling, Leni Newman, Toni Schulman and Nancy Schlesinger. Loving greatgrandmother of Jessie Schulman, Abby Schulman, Rachel Schlesinger and Natasha Mindling. Born 1899, passed away pe
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. Connie - an extraordinary wife, mother, grandmother, human being, who immeasurably enriched the lives of all who knew her. She will be terribly missed. With love, Agnes Gund and Daniel Shapiro       
 STEINBERG-Lillian, R.N. Died peacefully May 14, 1998, at the age of 82. Devoted wife to the late Leo, beloved mother of Gail Jacobs and Richard, cherished grandmother of Hilary Jacobs, Amanda Wolf, Makaela and Ezra, greatgrandmother of Samantha, Kate, and Peyton Lee. A completely charming, 
 TOBEY-Virginia Harrison. Died peacefully on May 16, 1998, at age 93. Devoted wife of the late William Tobey. Loving mother of Charles, Jane (Addis) and Paul. Dear sister of Gladys Scroggins. Mother-in-law of Judy and Ronnie. Grandmother of Jackie, Emily, Deborah, Jesse, Michael, Eric and Br
 BENINGTON-Mathilde Johnston. Mathilde Johnston Benington died Saturday, May 16, 1998 in Hobe Sound, FL. Beloved wife of the late Arthur, devoted mother of Mathilde and George. Survived also by her sister Molly Brent Lucas, step-sister Edwina Shea Millington, and sister-in-law Edwina Leggett
 FINKELSTEIN-Florence. A warm, wonderful and beautiful woman passed away May 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Sidney. Daughter of Pearl and the late Ben Gerber. Daughter-in-law of Ella and the late David Finkelstein. Mother of Joy and Barry. Mother-in-law of Cindy. Grandmother of Blair, Abby and Li
 JAVITCH-Jane E., 97. Died May 16, 1998 in Harrisburg, PA. Surviving are a daughter, Phyllis Lipsett of Harrisburg, a son, Lee H., of Harrison, NY; six grandchildren; and 13 great grandchildren. Services and burial took place in Beth El Cemetery, Harrisburg. Reese Funeral Home, Harrisburg, P
 MEDINE-Edith D., 89, Arlington, VA., formerly of West Palm Beach. Survived by her beloved husband William; children Amy Stein, Laurie and Art Alexander, grandchildren Eric, Tony, George and Mary Stein, Paul, Stacia, Peter and Nancy Saperstone, great grandchildren Amanda, Zachary and Emily. 
 SLIFKA-Belle. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Ruth Mindling, Lew Spence and Evelyn (Jerome Dilloff). Beloved grandmother of Jim Mindling, Leni (Robert Newman), Toni (John Schulman) and Nancy (Andrew Schlesinger). Loving greatgrandmother of Meg Newman, Rachel Schlesinger, 
 TOBEY-Virginia. The residents of the Kenilworth mourn the loss of our dear friend and neighbor. Virginia enhanced the lives of our children with her arts and crafts skills. We offer our condolences to her family. Arthur Sarnoff, President Kenilworth Apartments       
 WILSON-Ruth Rita (nee Jeselson), RN. Died on May 16 at St. Camillus Health Center, Stamford, Ct. Beloved wife of the late John A. Wilson and stepmother of Ethel Arlene Wilson and the late John Wilson, Jr. Survived by nieces and nephews, notably Dorothy Jeselson Nicholson of Savannah, Ga. an
 BLOCH-Lillian (Zinn). Adored wife of the late Marvin J. Bloch, loving sister of Ruth Zinn Becker, beloved mother of Linda, Willa and the late Paul Bloch, cherished mother-in-law of Louise Hollinger, Rob Grambau and Douglas Fishman, and doting grandmother of David, Daniel, Marni, Mark, and Z
 EFFRAT-Alice. Died at age 85 on May 19, 1998 in West Palm Beach, FL. Devoted wife for 53 years of former New York Times sports writer Louis, who predeceased her; loving mother of Linda and Lee Zolet and Carol and Albert Effrat; caring grandmother of Beth and Brian Zolet, Stephanie and Alan 
 KOHL-DEDOMENICO-Ielyne. Artist. Age 49. Died May 16, 1998. Inspired all who knew her. Beautiful daughter of Regina Kohl. Loving sister of Susan Kohl and brotherin-law Danny Osterweil. Devoted mother of Orange and Reyne. Her courage and love of life will be missed.       
 PETERS-Betty Martone. Died peacefully on May 18, 1998, at age 84. Devoted & patient wife of the late Leone J. Peters; beloved mother of Paul Leone Peters and Gail Peters Beitz; adored grandmother of Adam & Jaime Peters, and Bradley and Drew Beitz; cherished mother-in-law of Kenneth Beitz; d
 SEIDEL-Regina. On May 18, 1998 in Williamsburg, VA., formerly of NYC. Beloved wife for 65 years of the late Dr. Harry Seidel. She is survived by and will be remembered as the loving mother of Suzanne Schoenbaum. Cherished grandmother of Carol Wolf and Robert Schoenbaum. Adored great-grandmo
 TIROLA-Elvira Angela. On May 16, 1998 at the age of 88. She was born in New York City. Retired as an Executive Secretary for New York County Medical Society after 43 years. She was a member of the American Association of Medical Executives and Emeritus since 1979. She is survived by her nie
 BLOCH-Lillian (Zinn). Adored wife of the late Marvin J. Bloch. Loving sister of Ruth Zinn Becker. Beloved mother of Linda, Willa and the late Paul Bloch. Cherished mother-in-law of Louise Hollinger, Rob Grambau and Douglas Fishman. Doting grandmother of David, Daniel, Marni, Mark and Zoe. S
 FUHRMANN-Elaine. May 20, 1998, beloved wife of the late Louis Grinthal, and the late Mort Furhmann. Loving mother of Karen Grinthal Vernon, & the late Jamie Grinthal. Devoted sister of Dr. Robert Rubin. Cherished grandmother of William and Emma Vernon. Service Thursday, May 21, 1998, 11:30 
 GERSHWIN - Patricia Greener (nee Glasgow). On May 19th, in her 85th year, peacefully in her sleep after a 5 year illness. Widow of Dr. Ben Gershwin and Prof. Abraham Greener. She leaves a multitude of devoted friends, four children, nine grandchildren and 3 great - grandchildren. Memorial s
 JALONACK-Sylvia (nee Solow). On May 19, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Irwin. Devoted mother of Carol Blum and Richard. Cherished mother-in-law of Tibi Jalonack. Loving grandmother of Susannah, Asa and Mattie. Services Thursday, 12:30 PM at I.J. Morris Funeral Home, Hempstead. JALON
 KAYE-Pauline. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Pauline Kaye, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 LANDAU-Irene. Devoted wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother of Steven (Sara), Joyce Kole (Michael) and Daniel. Adored grandmother of Larry, Ali, Leigh, Debbie and Avi and great grandmother of Danielle, Maayan and Sam. Beloved sister of Bella & Amanda. Her long life was one of devotion to
 Dorothy Donegan, a jazz pianist who brashly mixed swing, boogie-woogie, vaudeville, pop, ragtime and Bach -- sometimes within a span of 10 minutes -- and who was known for an outrageous sense of humor, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 76. The cause was colon cance
 DALLEK-Phyllis. Died suddenly May 21, 1998 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Godfrey, loving mother of Steven, Nancy and sonin-law Jeff Pearlstein. Adored sister of Dick and Dorothy Bernstein. Sister-in-law of Shirley and Joe Cohen. Survived by cherished nieces and nephews. We will dee
 FUHRMANN - Elaine Grinthal. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Elaine Grinthal Fuhrmann. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 MINKOFF-Dussia. Died peacefully at home, at 92, on May 20th. The widow of Isaiah Minkoff, the founding Executive VP of NJCRAC and a life-long leader in national Jewish and labor causes; she was the mother of Nina M. Cohen of Jacksonville, FL and Washington, DC; & Paul Minkoff of NY. Grandmo
 ROSS-Ruth. Wife of Sidney, sister of Stanley, devoted and adored mother of Jerilyn and Richard. Treasured mother-of-law of Gerald and Cissy. Cherished grandmother in the lives of Evan, Joy, Dana, Nick and Leela. She will always be missed.       
 GITLITZ-Bonnie. The NYS Coalition of Nurse Practitioners mourns the loss our friend and leader, a pediatric nurse practitioner devoted to her friends, her family, profession and her patients.       
 STAMMERS SCHAUER-Diana. of Palm Desert, California. Formerly of New York and Surrey, England. Died May 19, 1998. She is survived by her husband Joseph R. Schauer, and her brother Michael Stammers. Services to be held at Church of Religious Science of the Desert, Palm Desert, California, on 
 ZELLER-Belle. The Professional Staff Congress mourns the passing of our founding President Emeritus Professor Belle Zeller. Prof. Zeller was not only an outstanding leader of the faculty but she was also an unrelenting advocate for The City University of New York. Dr. Zeller established a n
 Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manh
 Loren MacIver, a painter of dreamlike, half-abstract landscapes, city views and close-ups of natural forms, and a close friend of many American poets, including Elizabeth Bishop, E. E. Cummings and Marianne Moore, died on May 3 at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan, where she had li
 Nicole Maxwell, a free-spirited San Francisco debutante who plunged into the remote Amazon jungles of Ecuador and Peru and came out with a trove of medicinal plants that she said Indians used to cure virtually every known ailment, died on May 5 in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She
 P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati. She was 91 and lived in Clifton, Ohio. The ca
 BAKER-Roberta. We are deeply saddened at the passing of Roberta Deal Baker of Woodhaven, NY, on May 20, 1998. She was the beloved daughter of Dr. A. W. and Gladys Deal of Lewistown, MT, and the loving wife of the late Raleigh Baker. She is survived by her loving children, grandchildren and 
 BOOCHEVER-Joan Aline. Beloved sister of Margery Boochever Perlo, died on May 6, 1998. She was a wonderful, loving human being who enriched the lives of all who knew her. Her family is deeply saddened by their loss. There will be a private family memorial.       
 KENT-Melva Morris. On April 26, 1998. Beloved sister, aunt, great aunt and friend. She will be missed.       
 MacIVER-Loren. Died peacefully at her home in Greenwich Village, NY, on May 3, 1998. Beloved wife of the late poet and critic Lloyd Frankenberg. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. As we move forward, her extraordinary spirit lives through our memories and her art. At Lor
 ROSENZWEIG-Jacob. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends sincerest expressions of sympathy and condolences to Ruthi and our Board of Governors member Joey Bodner, upon the loss of her dear father, Jacob Rosenzweig. May the Almighty comfort you among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rav Avraham Avida
 STEINMAN-Estelle. Beloved wife of the late Irving Steinman. Adored mother of Harriett Schiffman and Marjorie and Melvin Fritz. Cherished grandmother of Robert and Emily Schiffman, Meryl and Larry Handler, Steven and Kevin Fritz, and treasured greatgrandmother of Stephanie and Gregory Handle
 VOZICK-Ida Wener. Died Thursday, May 21, 1998, at age 87. Cherished wife of 64 years of the late Hyman Vozick. Beloved mother of Michael, David, Alexandra and Tina, and mother-in-law of Michele Vozick, Paul Levinson, and Paul Hans. Treasured grandmother of Eric, Julie and Jesse Vozick; Zach
 ZELLER-Belle, Ph.D. On May 22, 1998. Beloved aunt of Laura Glass, Alice Glass and Mark Gutman, Susan and Richard Weiss, Marjorie Wishbow, David Zeller, and Janet Zeller. Contributions in her memory to Belle Zeller Scholarship Trust Fund, c/o Professional Staff Congress, 25 W. 43rd Street, S
 HENNESSEY-Julia (nee Dunn). On Thursday, May 21, 1998, at her home in Vero Beach, Florida. Also from Franklin Lakes. Beloved wife of Matthew J. Hennessey. Devoted mother of Maureen Murdock of Venice, CA, and Rosemary Mc Glynn and son-in-law Denis Mc Glynn of Potomac, MD. Dear sister-in-law 
 KRIVY-Frances. May 22, 1998. (nee Altman). Wife of Harry of Cherry Hill. Mother of Dr. Leonard (Joan) Krivy. Grandmother of Julie Beth Krivy (Robert) Erdman, M.D. and Howard (Sophia) Krivy. She was a volunteer at the Sephardic Home of Brooklyn. Graveside services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, Mt. Leba
 ZELLER-Belle. The University Faculty Senate of the City University of New York mourns the loss of Professor Emerita Belle Zeller. She was a political scientist by trade and advisor to the administrations of President Roosevelt and Truman and inspiration to generations of students who studie
 Betsy Carden, a former dance teacher at Brooklyn College and a leader in American college dance, died on May 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 68. She died of cancer, said her family. Born in Danville, Va., and educated at Mary Washington College of the University o
 LEVINE-Florence (nee Levitas). In her 91st year. Devoted wife of the late Charles Levine, daughter of the late Gerson and Yetta Levitas, beloved mother of Abraham (Toddie) and Trudy, Benita and Murray Gross, Leon and Sybil and Jack and Frances. Adored grandmother of fourteen and great grand
 LINDH-Kathleen Davis (Kathy). Died Thursday, May 21, 1998 at her home in Greenwich, Ct. Kathy was devoted to the New York Philharmonic and actively involved in Blue Hill Troop. She continued her avid interest in horses as a member of the Entertainment Committee of the National Horse Show. K
 MOLLOY-Robert. Of Walpole MA. Formerly of Madison, N.J. Age 80 years. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice (Landy) Molloy, loving father of Amy L. Molloy and her husband Bruce J. Houston of Natick, MA. Brother of Mrs. John M. (Dorothy) Butler of Paramus, N.J. Relatives and friends are kindl
 OUIMETTE-Margaret Yanow. On May 25, 1998. Beloved wife of Robert; mother of David and Michael; sister of Barbara and Philip Lichtenstein and Caryl Yanow and William Grueskin; aunt of Sarah Lichtenstein; niece of Robert and Sandra Levine and Mildred and Marvin Wallach; daughter of the late M
 SACKS-Shirley Audrey. With her family at her bedside, she died at home, at peace, on Sunday, May 24, 1998, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Her partner and companion of 43 years, Dr. Leonard S. Sacks; her children Leo, Joanne and David; her brother Arthur; and her grandchildren Mira, R
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. A leader of several volunteer groups including the Bellevue Hospital Asssociation and the New York Women's Foundation, died at the age of 74 on Friday, May 15, 1998 in Belvedere, CA. from pneumonia and chronic emphysema. Connie remained active until two days befor
 BIRKHAHN-Ruth P. At age 90. Mother of Judith and William Abelow and the late Steven Birkhahn. Grandmother of Janie Finn, Debbie Abelow, Tracy Spicer and Ted Birkhahn. Great-grandmother of Zachary Finn and Jacob Finn. A generous and special woman to her family and friends. Services on Wednes
 BLOCK-Betty. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Fred Karp, President       
 GALIMIR-Suzanne. On May 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Felix. Loving sister of Martin Hirsch, Margaret Hirsh and the late Stephen Hirsch. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Services on Thursday, at 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. GALIMIR-Suzanne. The 
 KOEGLER-Elmirita A. Of New York, died in her 93rd year on May 19, in St. Petersburg, Florida, where she had resided since 1997. She was the widow of George Koegler of New York, who at his death in 1956 was General Counsel of the Standard Oil Co. (NJ). She was the daughter of Dr. Raoul Amado
 LILIENSTEIN-Natalie. Mother, friend, wife, social activist and community organizer; a beautiful, caring woman with an indomitable spirit and sunshine bright smile has reluctantly bid us farewell. She leaves behind her two devoted children, Nan Shuker and Alan Ross, someone who was like a da
 OUIMETTE-Margaret Yanow. On May 25, 1998. Beloved wife of Robert; mother of David and Michael; sister of Barbara and Philip Lichtenstein and Caryl Yanow and William Grueskin; aunt of Sarah Lichtenstein; niece of Robert and Sandra Levine and Mildred and Marvin Wallach; daughter of the late M
 SEETOO-Lynette (nee Char). On May 21, 1998. Age 35. Of New York City, N.Y. Formerly of Honolulu, Hawaii. Beloved wife of John Stuart Seetoo; devoted mother of Gwendolyn Minglyn Seetoo; loving daughter of Lloyd and Aileen Char; dear sister of Kendall, Nelson and Edwin Char, Laureen Char Desa
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. A leader of several volunteer groups including the Bellevue Hospital Asssociation and the New York Women's Foundation, died at the age of 74 on Friday, May 15, 1998 in Belvedere, CA. from pneumonia and chronic emphysema. Connie remained active until two days befor
 ULLMANN-Julia (nee Polyatchek), on May 24, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Georges D. Ullmann. Adoring mother of Nadine U. Brozan and the late Judith Anne Posner. Loving grandmother of Theodore R. Posner, Jacqueline P. Glassman and Alexander M. Brozan. Great-grandmother of Jacob H. Glassman 
 ZELLER-Belle. The Trustees and Staff of the Belle Zeller Scholarship Trust Fund mourn the death of Dr. Belle Zeller, founding President Emerita of the Professional Staff Congress/CUNY. A woman of indefatigable energy, intellectual honesty and personal integrity, the 223 CUNY students to dat
 DE JUR-Frances. May 27, 1898May 27, 1998. Mother -Grandmother In sweet memory of her unconditioned love, her unwavering devotion and her gentle strength. Loved and remembered with eternal gratitude on her 100th birthday. The Family       
 ADAMS-Jeanette. The officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Jeanette. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 ASTIFIDIS-Cleopatra. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center Family joins with the staff of the Seymour J. Phillips Health Sciences Library in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Cleopatra Astifidis, the mother of our esteemed friend and collegue, Maria Astifidis. We extend our sympathi
 CAMPBELL-Elsa Jane Hartwig. November 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alec Campbell. Adored mother of Constance Alessandra Campbell. Dearest daughter of the late Carl and Karen Hartwig of Minneapolis. Formerly with the International Division of the YMCA, and later with her husband's compa
 GALIMIR-Suzanne. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival share the loss of and extend deepest sympathy to the family of Suzanne Galimir. For over forty years, she was instrumental in helping to plan and arrange events at Marlboro that brought generations 
 KAPLAN-Sylvia K. On May 27, 1998, in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Kaplan, loving mother of Rona Roob, Steven Kaplan, Susan Diamond, and the late Richard Kaplan, cherished grandmother of Nancy, Helen, Nathan, Edward, Joseph, Nicholas, Michael, Sara, and David, great grandmo
 KOBRIN-Estelle. Age 79 of Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, on May 27, 1998. Survived by her beloved husband Bernard, daughter Roni and sister Frances Nadler. Services are Friday, 12 noon at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Route 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 KOEGLER-Elmirita A. Of New York, died in her 93rd year on May 19, in St. Petersburg, Florida, where she had resided since 1997. She was the widow of George Koegler of New York, who at his death in 1956 was General Counsel of the Standard Oil Co. (NJ). She was the daughter of Dr. Raoul Amado
 ROTSTEIN-Sydell (nee Bernstein). In Jerusalem, Israel on May 26, 1998 at age 62. Devoted wife, mother and grandmother of Saul Rotstein, Nitza Rotstein and Yair Inbar, and Talya and Michael Inbar. Beloved sister of Rita Breslau and Rosalie Bernstein. Too soon. She will be missed.       
 SANDOR-Josephine (Mrs. Ralph) Beardsley. Passed away after a long illness in a New Jersey nursing home on May 17, 1998, just four days short of her 84th birthday. Mrs. Sandor was born in New York City and grew up and lived in Bronxville, NY before settling in Oakland, NJ in 1964 her present
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. The Bellevue Association will be forever grateful to Connie for her leadership and dedication to Bellevue Hospital Center. Connie and Tony chose to commit their energies and resources to ensuring the traditionally underserved were well served. We mourn with their 
 WALLICK-Corinne. Beloved wife of Sanders (Sandy) Wallick. Died suddenly on May 27th. A loving mother of Steven and Don Schatzberg, a gentle, generous lady who gave of herself to the many causes she supported. Survived by her sister, Sue and Ted Kaskel, brother, George (Shirley) Loeb. Stepmo
 ZELLER-Belle. The Hunter College Community mourns the loss of Belle Zeller, a 1921 graduate of Hunter College High School, and 3 years later, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Hunter College. She was a professor of political science for 47 years, and was a mentor and counselor to many legislativ
 FARR-Florence Lincoln. Florence Lincoln Farr died on May 26, 1998 at her New York home. Born in New York City in 1897, the daughter of Frederic Walker and Philena Prentice Lincoln, she was the mother of William Rockefeller and Elsie Rockefeller Proxmire McMillin, both of whom have died, and
 KAPLAN-Sylvia K. On May 27, 1998, in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Kaplan, loving mother of Rona Roob, Steven Kaplan, Susan Diamond, and the late Richard Kaplan, cherished grandmother of Nancy, Helen, Nathan, Edward, Joseph, Nicholas, Michael, Sara, and David, great grandmo
 POLLACK-Beatrice (Billie) Jeffe. Died on May 24, 1998 in Cypress Creek, FL. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Pollack. Survived by her loving sister, Frieda Sherman of Santa Cruz, CA, brother Perry Jeffe of Santa Fe, NM, and their families.       
 WALLICK-Corinne, of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of Sanders (Sandy) Wallick. Died suddenly on May 27. A loving mother of Steven and Don Schatzberg, a gentle, generous lady who gave of herself to the many causes she supported. Survived by her sister, Sue and Ted Kaskel, bro
 CARDEN-Betsy M. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emerita of Dance Betsy M. Carden. Her 31 years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College       
 GREENBERG-Renee. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Renee Greenberg, a very special lady whose life was filled with achievement. We extend our sincere sympathy to her devoted and loving husband, Ir
 MUNAFO-Gertrude A. (Ret. Texaco Oil). Beloved wife of the late Joseph; loving sister of Edith Cremins and Huldah Williams; dear aunt of many nieces and nephews. She was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Mount Holyoke College and received her masters from Columbia University. She was also a fifty
 Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City. She was 63. She died of a heart attack, said her daughter, Karen Spence.
 EGE-Knox Martha. Of NYC died February 16, 1998. Wife of the late Kevin Butler and the late Warren S. Ege. She was the daughter of Federal Judge John C. Knox and Mrs J. Knox. Mrs. Ege attended the Lincoln School in NYC and Sarah Lawrence College. Services private. Memorial contributions may 
 FELDMAN-Yetta. On May 30, after a valiant battle. Loved by Melvin, her husband of 50 years, and her two adoring children Estey and Ronald, son-in-law Douglas, sister-in-law Ruth, and many others who also loved and respected her. She was a caring, giving, warm, wonderful and thoughtful lady.
 GREENBERG-Renee. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Renee Greenberg, a very special lady whose life was filled with achievement. We extend our sincere sympathy to her devoted and loving husband, Ir
 GROFE-Beatrice. Died an untimely death on May 26, 1998 in New York City. Beloved sister, aunt, cousin and friend. Her perception and intelligence was most creative and artistic. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her.       
 HINDUS-Professor Milton. On Thursday, May 28, of Newton, MA. Husband of Eva (Tenenbaum). Father of Myra Hindus and her partner Barbara Frank of Jamaica Plain, MA. Services at Berlin Chapel, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, on Tuesday, June 2 at 11 AM. Remembrances may be made to National W
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. A leader of several volunteer groups including the Bellevue Hospital Asssociation and the New York Women's Foundation, died at the age of 74 on Friday, May 15, 1998 in Belvedere, CA. from pneumonia and chronic emphysema. Connie remained active until two days befor
