 FERRAGAMO - Fiamma. The NYU community grieves for the loss of Fiamma Ferragamo. The Ferragamo family has been true and generous friends of this University, and they have been particularly welcoming and supportive of our efforts at Villa La Pietra in Florence. Our hearts go out to her loved 
 GOPSTEIN-Liba. Beloved mother of Israel and Doron, adored grandmother of Etan, Avi, Leora, Emily, David and Diana, died Sept. 28. We mourn the loss of her boundless love and glowing spirit. She was one of the great Judaic teachers of her generation, leaving an extraordinary legacy to thousa
 KESSLER - Dorothy Lifshey. Passed away Tuesday, September 29, after a long illness. She leaves her beloved daughters Ilene Wechter, Rona Miller, sons-in-law Arnie and Buddy; six grandsons, Hugh, Andrew, Marc, Lawrence, Lee and their wives Susan, Pam, Robin, Lauren and six greatgrandchildren
 KRAKAUER-Evelyn Korman, 66, Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of New City, NY, died Sept. 28. Survived by her husband, Saul, her daughters, Barbara Siegel, Roberta Lensch, Sandra Krakauer; sister, Gladys Sisselman, grandchildren, Paul and Michelle. Donations to New City Jewish Center.       
 POPKIN - Carolyn (Lynne) (Schmeidler). Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Wonderfully special person who will be missed by all of us. No day shall pass without beautiful memories of her. Donations to the Calhoun School, 160 West 74 Street, NYC 10023.       
 RAKER-Janet S. Age 90. Beloved wife of the late Mendel K; loving mother of Richard K (Susan Kind) Raker; cherished grandmother of Renee Raker and Jesse Raker; dear sister in law of Marie Sturman; preceded in death by four sisters and one brother; devoted daughter of the late Charles and Ann
 SCHWABER-Bess. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President, SCHWABER-Betty.
 SIMONS-Betsy. Superior Printing Ink Co. extends its deepest sympathy to the Simons family on the loss of Betsy Simons, wife of Jeffrey Simons, CEO. Betsy's courageous fight with cancer was an inspiration to all of those who knew her. The well-being of the Simons family is in the thoughts an
 SMYTH-Harriet Rucker Crowell, 72, of New Preston, CT died Sept. 29 in Connecticut. Mrs. Smyth taught english at Torrington High School for more than twenty years, was an avid naturalist, an antiques dealer and operated a boarding business for cats. She was born in New York City and was grad
 STAROBIN-Norma (nee Rosen). Died on September 27, 1998, after a long illness of cancer. Devoted wife of the late professor Joseph R. Starobin. Loving mother of the late professor Robert S. Starobin. Cherished sister of the late Victor H. Rosen, MD. and loving wife of the late Leon Nelson. S
 WATTENBERG-Regina Chariton. The staff and trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened by the passing of Regina Chariton Wattenberg, mother of Lily C. Kaplan and mother-in-law of JBFCS President Joseph S. Kaplan. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Kaplan fa
 SIMON-Sybil K. December 18, 1930-October 1, 1988 The world is a better place because, for a brief space, she lived in it.       
 BENSON-Elaine K. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers mourn the loss of Elaine Benson, valued friend, benefactor and long time supporter. We are greatful for her many contributions to our success over the years. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family and frien
 CALLAHAN-Dr. Jennie Waugh, an author and noted educator who pioneered the use of children in broadcasting for creative and educational purposes, died on June 27 near her home in Bronxville, New York. Dr. Callahan was the first proponent of using children to enhance the creative content of b
 DONOVAN-Meg. 47. On Oct. 1, 1998 at her home in Washington, D.C. after a courageous battle against cancer. Deputy Assistant U.S. Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs and a top aide to Secretaries of State Madeleine Albright and Warren Christopher, Meg, a native of Long Island, NY, had
 HEISLER-Elaine Catharine (nee Kuhn). Of Wayne, NJ, died September 29 at age 62. She leaves her husband of 42 years, Robert C. Heisler; sons Mitchell Jeffrey, Glenn, and Matthew; their wives Patricia, Kaisa, Maria, and Alison; and grandchildren Charles, Philip, Thomas, Margaret, Alexandra, P
 KAPLAN-Pearl, mother, grandmother, aunt, volunteer and friend, passed away 9/29/98. A source of inspiration, strength and compassion, Pearl worked hard in her community and for her family. She will be missed and remembered.       
 KESSLER - Dorothy Lifshey. Passed away Tuesday, September 29, after a long illness. She leaves her beloved daughters Ilene Wechter, Rona Miller, sons-in-law Arnie and Buddy; five grandsons, Hugh, Andrew, Marc, Lawrence, Lee and their wives Susan, Pam, Robin, Lauren and six greatgrandchildre
 MANDEL-Rose Blum, died October 1, 1998, age 95. Beloved mother of Mimi Frishman, Susan Prusky and Samuel Mandel. Sister of Irene Silver and Sophie Kronenberg. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. An inspiration and force in all our lives. She leaves a legacy of charity and good deads. 
 NEWMAN-Sylvia (nee Rosoff). Beloved wife of the late Lawrence William Newman. Devoted mother to daughters and sons-in-law Ilyse & Dean Schuckman, Idanne and Michael Rozins, and Melissa and Jay Perlstein. Cherished grandmother of Evan, Rachel, Adam, Sari, Ryan, Larry, Jesse and Lara. Darling
 OPPENHEIMER-Beryl. Of New York City, on October 1, 1998. Beloved cousin, friend and humanitarian. Funeral services to be held at Bachman Kulik Funeral Home, 17th & Hamilton Streets, Allentown, PA., on Sunday, October 4th at 12 noon. OPPENHEIMER-Beryl F. The trustees & staff of the J
 RAFALOWICZ-Mira. Born August 11, 1941. Dramaturg and loving friend to many, and international person of the theatre, she died peacefully on September 28, 1998 in Amsterdam, Holland. An inspiration, she will be deeply missed.       
 SCHWARTZ-Jeannette. Beloved mother of Dallas Weinberg and Herbert Schwartz. Passed away September 30, 1998, at 90 years. Her family loved her very dearly and will miss her greatly.       
 SOLOMON-Carolyn. On October 1, at age 71. Her husband Irwin, daughters Marcia and Claudia, sons-in-law Roy and Joel, and grandchildren Liza, Matthew, Rachel and Nathan will miss her love and guidance, wit and intelligence, insight and compassion. In her memory, donations may be made to the 
 WARNER-Nancy Hill, 84. On September 30 in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Miner C. Hill of New York and Oyster Bay. Wife of the late Bradford A. Warner. She is survived by her sons, Bradford A. Warner Jr. of London, Miner H. Warner of New York, five grandchildren, a
 Toots Barger, a perennial world champion in a decidedly regional sport, died on Monday at a retirement home in Frederick, Md. She was 85 and had long been known as the Queen of Duckpins. Her family said the cause was cancer. If duckpins doesn't ring a bell, chances are you d
 BENCHLEY-Marjorie B. On October 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel Goddard. Mother of Peter Bradford and Nathaniel Robert. Grandmother of three and great grandmother of one. Interment is private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Nantucket Cottage Hospital, Nantucket, 
 DALY-Dr. Barbara Goodman, age 70 of Port Washington, L.I. on October 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Stanley. Loving mother of Paul and Marian Daly. Also survived by her sister, Ruth Cohen and nieces; Helen Cohen and Lisette Bralow. A memorial visitation will be held at Austin F. Knowles, Inc. Fun
 DONOVAN-Meg. 47. On Oct. 1, 1998 at her home in Washington, D.C. after a courageous battle against cancer. Deputy Assistant U.S. Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs and a top aide to Secretaries of State Madeleine Albright and Warren Christopher, Meg, a native of Long Island, NY, had
 HOUSTON-Lisa, age 85, died September 30, 1998 in Bristol, ME. Surviving are her husband Frederic P, children are; Douglas C Houston and Jane C McCready; two granddaughters. Burial will be in Stansted Mount Fitchet, England.       
 KUSHNER-Minette (nee Permut). On October 2, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Harvey Kushner. Loving mother and friend of Leslie and Mitchel Mitchel, Stephen Kushner, and Barrie and Matthew Kornberg. Adored nanny of Brandon and Brittany. Dear sister and sister-in-law of Michael and Connie Perm
 LEDIEU-Sr. Salesia, M.S.C. on Oct 1, 1998, Missionary Sister of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, esteemed educator, died in Dobbs Ferry, NY at the age of 95. Native of New orleans, LA, she was a mentor to thousands at Mother Cabrini High School, NY and Cabrini College, Radnor, PA. Friends are inv
 OPPENHEIMER-Beryl. On October 1, 1998 of Manhattan. Funeral Services Sunday 12 noon, Bachman, Kulik & Reinsmith Funeral Home, 17th and Hamilton Streets, Allentown, PA. Contributions to Beryl Oppenheimer Cancer Fund of Sacred Heart Hospital, 421 Chew St., Allentown, Pa. 18102. OPPENH
 PALEY-Audrey C. Died October 1, 1998 in New York City after a long and courageous battle with ovarian cancer. She is survived by her husband, Richard of 40 years, her daughters, Jane and Liz and son-in-law Michael. The family gratefully acknowledges the outstanding and compassionate care gi
 WARNER-Nancy Hill. The Alumnae Board, Trustees, faculty, staff and alumnae of The NightingaleBamford School mourn the loss of our beloved friend. A member of the Class of 1932, Mrs. Warner served as President of the Alumnae Board and as an Alumnae Fund Class Agent. In 1993, she received the
 Pauline Julien, who sang songs of passion and of tender love, died on Wednesday in Montreal. The chanteuse, who was 70, was most strongly identified with the songs she sang in the cause of a separate and independent Quebec. Ms. Julien took her own life at her home after leaving a no
 IN November 1939, shortly after Adolf Hitler touched off World War II, a British writer commented about the two World Wars: ''The last one was a soldier's war. This one is everybody's.'' ''And so it was,'' said an octogenarian, Ruth Kornblum, who lives in White Plains. She flew plan
 Elaine Benson, whose gallery in Bridgehampton, N.Y., was a fixture on the East End summer art scene for more than three decades, died on Monday at her home in Bridgehampton. She was 74 years old and died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, her family  said. Elaine Klebanoff was born i
 Lila Katzen, a sculptor whose abstract works have adorned spaces from Fordham University's campus at Lincoln Center to the United States Consulate in Hamburg, Germany, died Sept. 20 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72  and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer,
 BENCHLEY-Marjorie B. On October 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel Goddard. Mother of Peter Bradford and Nathaniel Robert. Grandmother of three and great grandmother of one. Interment is private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Nantucket Cottage Hospital, Nantucket, 
 DONNELLY-Dorothy Elizabeth (nee Bridgham). 89. On October 2, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Edward; loving and beloved mother of Marjorie Clarke of Collinsville, CT, and Dorothy Meunier of Paradise Valley, AZ; and doting and cherished grandmother of Alison, Justin, Libby and Matthew. Born i
 DORR-Ruth Miller, 91. Of Fort Myers, FL. Homemaker, artist, died September 21, 1998. Studied at The Art Students League of New York, graduated from The Boston Museum School of Fine Arts and La Sorbonne, Paris, France with awards. Taught at The Nightingale Bamford School, NYC. Exhibited pain
 HOLLOBOW-Beatrice (Bee). The Officers and Board of Directors of Women of Reform Judaism, formerly the National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods, are saddened by the death of Bee Hollobow, of Chicago, cherished past President. Bee's intellect, creativity and commitment to women and Israel we
 LEDIEU-Sr. Salesia, M.S.C. on Oct 1, 1998, Missionary Sister of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, esteemed educator, died in Dobbs Ferry, NY at the age of 95. Native of New orleans, LA, she was a mentor to thousands at Mother Cabrini High School, NY and Cabrini College, Radnor, PA. Friends are inv
 RAND-Adaline Havemeyer Perkins. Of Needham, MA, on October 2, age 85, of cancer. Born in New York City & a resident there until recently. She had been married to Richard S. Perkins and the late Laurance Rand. She had been a trustee of the Union Theological Seminary, a volunteer archivist at
 SCHWAB-Eleonora. On October 3, 1998. Beloved wife of George and loving mother of Clarence, Claude and Solan. She lived with courage and strength. All those whose lives she touched will miss her. Interment is private. Contributions may be made to the Jewish Survivors of Latvia, 74 Short Way,
 TAYLOR-Virginia P. Is mourned and missed by her family and friends. Survived and loved by her beloved husband, Vincent, her devoted daughter Nikki and son-inlaw Bob, her loving grandson Mark and her cherished sister Ann. We will all miss her charitable spirit. Reposing at the Kennedy Roth F
 WATSON-Dunston Anne. On October 1, 1998, after a long illness. Former television journalist for the BBC and NBC News. Daughter of the late Carl Hedrick and Helen M. Watson. She is survived by her sister, Sheila Watson Clark; her aunt, Elizabeth Watson Blanchard; niece, Elizabeth Blair Clark
 Haru Matsukata Reischauer, a journalist and author who was influential in diplomatic affairs in the 1960's as the wife of the United States Ambassador to Japan, died on Sept. 23 in La Jolla, Calif. She was 83. The cause of death was heart failure, a former colleague said. Mr
 BENCHLEY-Marjorie B. On October 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel Goddard. Mother of Peter Bradford and Nathaniel Robert. Grandmother of three and great grandmother of one. Interment is private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Nantucket Cottage Hospital, Nantucket, 
 BINDER-Rose Divak. On September 30, 1998, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel Binder. Devoted mother of Janet and Irwin Robinson, and Dr. Henry and Joan Binder. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth and Steven Schubiner, Jonathan and Heidi Robinson, Eve and Joshua Wiener, Stephen and K
 DILBERT-Ida. Died October 3, 1998, in Great Neck, NY. Beloved mother of Phyllis Turin and Ann Sandler and dear mother-in-law of Michael Turin and the late Melvin Sandler. Devoted sister of Esther Bernstein and the late Rose Schatner. She was a loving grandmother and great-grandmother. We wi
 HOFFER-Miriam. Age 96. On October 3, 1998. We mourn the loss of a person of great vitality, warmth, hospitality and zest for living. Beloved wife of the late Harry Ralston and the late Fred Hoffer. Loving mother of Donald Ralston and the late Dr. Bruce Ralston. Devoted mother-in-law to Caro
 KOLESNICK-Ruth. Passed away on October 2, 1998. Loving wife of Leon Kolesnick and the late Samuel Bederson. She is survived by her children Dale and George Rotner, and Cathy and Robert Schlecter, her loving grandchildren Stacey and Robert Gendelman, Dorit and Glenn Rotner and Justin Schlect
 MILLS-Grace S. Wife of Ralph J. Mills of Baton Rouge, LA and formerly of Chappaqua, NY, passed away on September 29. She leaves a daughter, Amy Levert of Baton Rouge, a son, Philip Rodger of Charlotte, NC, a step-daughter, Leslie Ann Santos of Randolph, NJ, and four grandchildren. A memoria
 RAND-Adaline Havemeyer Perkins. Of Needham, MA, on October 2, age 85, of cancer. Born in New York City & a resident there until recently. She had been married to Richard S. Perkins and the late Laurance Rand. She had been a trustee of the Union Theological Seminary, a volunteer archivist at
 WARNER-Nancy Hill, 84. On September 30 in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Miner C. Hill of New York and Oyster Bay. Wife of the late Bradford A. Warner. She is survived by her sons, Bradford A. Warner Jr. of London, Miner H. Warner of New York, five grandchildren, a
 BOSHNACK-Lillian. On September 28th. Devoted wife of Leo and twin sister of the late Victoria Weisbarth. With hearts full of love, we send our deepest condolences to her loving twin sons, Harvey and Arthur, dear and caring daughters-in-law, Suzanne and Arlene, and beloved grandchildren, Jos
 GEDULD-Sylvia. A woman of charm, dignity and love of family and friends. We were blessed to have her in our extended family. Our hearts go out to Victoria, Buzzy, Amanda, Nancy and Bram, who were lucky to have her in their immediate family. We'll all miss her. With Love, Gloria and Paul Asn
 GORLITZ-Janice Drucker, of Bay Harbor Islands, Florida, passed away on October 4, 1998. She was predeceased by her loving husband Jules Gorlitz and daughter Barbara Paula Adams. She was the loving, devoted grandmother of Adam Hammel. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends.     
 GUILDEN-Tamara. On October 5, 1998. Wife of the late Ira. Mother of Pat and Richard Adler. Grandmother of Jessica Bartlett, Melanie Adler, Joanna Adler and Great-grandmother of Molly Bartlett. Services and interment private. Mrs. Guilden was an active patron of the arts including The Metrop
 KLEINBERG-Beatrice. Age 84. Of Stony Brook, New York. Wife of the late Max. Survived by her loving family, Lenore, Ira, Amy, Amanda Cernitz, son Paul, sister Edith Lieberman. Graveside service 1 PM, Tuesday, New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY.       
 KRIEGER-Sally. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the loss of our longtime member. Our sympathies to her devoted husband, Joseph, adoring children and grandchildren. Memorial Service Wednesday, October 7, 3:00 P.M. Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street, NY, NY. Allan Schra
 MILLS-Grace S. Wife of Ralph J. Mills of Baton Rouge, LA and formerly of Chappaqua, NY, passed away on September 29. She leaves a daughter, Amy Levert of Baton Rouge, a son, Philip Rodger of Charlotte, NC, a step-daughter, Leslie Ann Santos of Randolph, NJ, and four grandchildren. A memoria
 POLLACK-Mollie G., Z''L, 83, of Tamarac, FL, died in Hartford on October 3, 1998, the 14th day of Tishrei, 5759, in the middle of the high holiday season. Beloved wife, for 44 years, of the late Samuel B. Pollack who predeceased her in 1983. Survived by Ann and Edward Meyer of New York and 
 RAND-Adaline Havemeyer Perkins. Of Needham, MA, on October 2, age 85, of cancer. Born in New York City & a resident there until recently. She had been married to Richard S. Perkins and the late Laurance Rand. She had been a trustee of the Union Theological Seminary, a volunteer archivist at
 SHARKEY-Anne J. Age 86, died on October 2nd, 1998. She was a beloved and loyal friend to many. Her career included work with Henry Sell, the U.S. State Department and the American Federation of Arts. Please send donations in her memory to Operation Smile, 250 Broadway, Suite 1704, New York,
 WARNER-Nancy. The Board of Directors of the Society of Daughters of Holland Dames note with sadness the death of Nancy Warner, a cherished member of the Society and the Board. She was a guiding light and will be greatly missed. Mrs. Alexander Orr Vietor, Directress General       
 WEISBARTH-Victoria on October 3rd. Adored wife of the late Morris Weisbarth, and twin sister of the late Lillian Boshnack. Our wholehearted sympathy to her cherished and devoted daughters and sons-in-law, Berissa and Jack Frame, Ellen and Michael Azaria, and her precious grandchildren, John
 WYMAN-Dr. Rachael. October 3, 1998. Beloved mother of Michael Magdleno and mother-in-law of Bonnie Magdleno. Dear sister of Miriam Weingarten. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, October 7 at 7 pm. Interment private. Contributions in her memor
 Jean Andrus Crockett, the first chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and first chairwoman of the finance department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at her home in Media, Pa. She was 79. While at Wharton, Ms. Crockett conduc
 ETTINGER-Evelyn. In Walnut Creek, CA on October 4th at 85 years of age. Native of New York, moved to California in 1990. Wife of the late Charles Ettinger, mother of William (Sheryl) Ettinger and the late John (Karen) Ettinger, grandmother of Nicole Ettinger. Active in the March of Dimes, H
 GOLDSMITH-Cele. In her 97th year, wife of the late Edward, mother of Judith Bergoffen and the late Thelma Berger. Motherin-law of Charles Bergoffen and Charles Berger. Grandmother of Susan, Philip, Peter (Nathan) and Sue, John and Demi, Ruth and Barry. Great grandmother of Milan, Melissa, H
 LOWEY-Rosl Irom. On October 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Hans. Devoted mother of Sue and Peter Gutlon and Janet and Andrew Edelman. Loving (Mimi) of Michael and Tommy Fankhauser, Daniel and Valerie Edelman. Cherished sister of Robert and Eve Irom. We will miss her strength and wisdom. 
 NIJKERK-Inge. We mourn the passing of Inge Nijkerk and extend condolences to her husband, Alfred, and her two sons, Ernst and Richard, her daughter-in-law, Lauren Nijkerk-Bogen, and her granddaughter, Margaux. Stanley and Roberta Bogen Joy Bogen Edmund Bogen Alexandra Bogen       
 WARNER-Nancy. The Board of Directors of the Society of Daughters of Holland Dames note with sadness the death of Nancy Warner, a cherished member of the Society and the Board. She was a guiding light and will be greatly missed. Mrs. Alexander Orr Vietor, Directress General       
 WEINTRAUB-Sheila E. Died of cancer on October 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Cherished mother of Roy (Nell) and Neil (Dee). Proud grandmother of Matt (Keri) and Garth. Dear sister of Ruth, Julia (Jack) and the late Dave (Evelyn). She will be missed by her family and many devoted 
 WERTKIN-Phyllis. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Passed away 10/5/98. She was the beloved wife of Ben, loving mother of Martin (Sandi), and Craig. Cherished grandmother of Scott, Jeffrey, Brian, Logan, and Stephanie. Adored sister of Doris (Fred) Saffer. Service Fri.,10/9/98,
 WHITE-Peggy Keasbey. 76. On 30 September in New York City. Beloved wife of King, mother of Kevin Frank and stepmother of David and Julie. Grandmother of Meghan Frank, Steven White and Thayer White. Her sense of humor and perseverance will be missed. Contributions in her memory can be made t
 ACCONCI-Jessie Carnevale. On October 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Professor Themistocles F. Acconci. Devoted mother of Marcia C. Fazzari and Cynthia S. Schwanderla. Cherished grandmother of Cynthia Fazzari-Wimer, Andrea L. Fazzari, Edward J. Schwanderla, and James J. Schwanderla. Frien
 DAVIDSON-Esther. On October 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Michael Davidson; dear mother of Mia Andersen; adored grandmother of Thea Andersen Bonomo and Eric Andersen; great grandmother of Vincent Michael Bonomo. Survived by her sister, Sonya Hamlin. Services Friday, October 9, 12 noon a
 FONTANA-Flora. Adored wife of Joseph, died in Florida October 6, 1998. Lost her courageous battle to cancer. Distinguished career as Public Relations Director and Special Assistant to Regine's. Viewing October 9th, 9-11AM at Hillebrand Funeral Home, 63-17 Woodhaven Boulevard, Rego Park. Int
 GEFFON-Florence, aka Florence Reiman. On Oct. 7, 1998. Survived by her husband Sam Geffon, wife of the late Irving M. Reiman. Mother of, and to, Leslie and Jim Quest, Jim and Sherrill Reiman, Billy and Cheryl Geffon. Grandmother to Annie & Matt, Daniel & Ellen, Ben and Jean. Great-grandmoth
 GUILDEN-Tamara. We mourn the loss of a dear friend, a woman of great intellect and character. We will miss her deeply. Tony Randall National Actors Theatre       
 HANDY-Victoria. Suddenly, on October 1st, 1998, in Minnesota. Survived by her husband, Martin Clough. Devoted daughter of Dorothy Handy. Cherished sister of Barbara Matonis, Cathy Handy and Jennifer Handy. Also survived by niece, Melinda and nephew, Eric Matonis. She was a devoted and lovin
 HOTCHKISS-Judith (nee Fradkin). On October 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Edward. Dearest daughter of Ruth Fradkin. Devoted mother of Jon and Jill, Wendy and Hilary. Loving sister of Stephen. Services Friday, 12 noon at ''Gutterman's, Inc.'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, Long Island.   
 KAPLAN-Gertrude. On October 3, 1998. Age 99. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving aunt of Shari Barton, Ira Silverberg and his wife Carol. Cherished great aunt of Stacie Teele and her husband Dan Varrichione, Edward Teele, Jenny Silverberg and Michael Silverberg. Adoring great grand-aunt
 LOWEY-Rosl Irom. On October 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Hans. Devoted mother of Sue and Peter Gutlon and Janet and Andrew Edelman. Loving (Mimi) of Michael and Tommy Fankhauser, Daniel and Valerie Edelman. Cherished sister of Robert and Eve Irom. We will miss her strength and wisdom. 
 OPPENHEIM-Marion, 96. On October 7, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jack N. Oppenheim Sr. Devoted mother of Jack N. Oppenheim Jr. and cherished grandmother of Jennie and Daniel Oppenheim. Her family and friends shall miss her love, strength and wise counsel. Private service. Donations in her
 OPPENHEIMER - Beryl. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, and the professional staff and directors of the Treatment Center, past and present, express profound sorrow at the loss of our colleague and co-worker, Beryl Oppenheimer, ACSW, who served the Treatment Ce
 REIMAN-Florence, aka Florence Geffon. On October 7, 1998. Survived by her husband Sam Geffon, wife of the late Irving M. Reiman. Mother of, and to, Leslie and Jim Quest, Jim and Sherrill Reiman, Billy and Cheryl Geffon. Grandmother to Annie and Matt, Daniel and Ellen, Ben and Jean. Greatgra
 SCHAEFER-Bertha. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Batya Levin on the loss of her mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SCHWARTZMAN-Carolyn. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Carolyn Schwartzman, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who lo
 WERTKIN-Phyllis. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Passed away 10/5/98. She was the beloved wife of Ben, loving mother of Martin (Sandi), and Craig. Cherished grandmother of Scott, Jeffrey, Brian, Logan, and Stephanie. Adored sister of Doris (Fred) Saffer. Service Fri.,10/9/98,
 CRUGER-Mary Sales. On Wednesday, October 7, died at the Ramapo Manor Nursing Home after a lengthy illness. Beloved wife of the late Bertram de Nully Cruger, KBE. Beloved mother of Maryvan Pendl and mother-in-law of Ulrich Pendl. A memorial service will be held at Saint Mary's in Tuxedo on S
 DAVIDSON - Esther. Wonderful piano teacher, storyteller, highspirited woman, friend. May her memory be for a blessing. Nancy Schwartz       
 FEIWEL-Maria. On October 8, 1998. Favorite teacher of many students. Loving wife of Henry. Beloved mother of Patricia, Jean and Larry. Cherished grandmother of Sarah and Emma. Dear aunt of Lawrence, Robert, Toni and Raymond. She was greatly loved and we will miss her. Services are private. 
 GREENE-Margot on October 3 at 106. Beloved wife of the late Irving J., loving mother of Joan Lazrus, cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Funeral was held. She will always be loved.       
 NISSIM-Khadouri, Chacham. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Simha Margalit on the loss of her brother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SUGARMAN-June. Died October 5th, 1998. Beloved wife of Tracy Sugarman and mother of Laurie Sugarman-Whittier, son Richard Sugarman and granddaughters Casey Sugarman, Amy Whittier and Abby Whittier. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Those desiring to make contributions in her 
 THALHEIM-Beth. We all mourn the passing of a most very special person. Beth was a remarkable lady. She was truly a one-of-a-kind individual. She had a way about her that generated a spark of life wherever she went. Beth was the devoted wife of 48 years to her husband Jay. They were always a
 TOMITA-Kiku, 75, died October 5 after a brief illness. She worked many years for the NYS Department of Labor, retiring in 1989. Her passions were world travel and volunteer work. She is survived by two brothers, Jun and Joe and sister Kay Hashimoto, all of Seattle, Washington. Family servic
 WERTKIN-Phyllis. She lightened my life in my dark days. I will never forget. To Ben, Doris, Fred and their families my deepest condolences and love. Dolores       
 ACCONCI-Jessie Carnevale. On October 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Professor Themistocles F. Acconci. Devoted mother of Marcia C. Fazzari and Cynthia S. Schwanderla. Cherished grandmother of Cynthia Fazzari-Wimer, Andrea L. Fazzari, Edward J. Schwanderla, and James J. Schwanderla. Frien
 CELLA-Mindy (nee Hymowitz). Age 43, on October 8, 1998. Mindy died peacefully at home surrounded by those who loved her. Adoring husband John Cella. Devoted parents Bernard and Shirley Hymowitz. Loving sister Rita Ashton, beloved family and friends. Mindy succumbed to cancer after a prolong
 SILMAN-Anna. On October 8, 1998. Beloved wife of George, mother of Trudie and Jeffrey, mother-in-law of Lewis. Lifelong, devoted member of Hadassah and holder of many local and regional offices. New York City teacher and guidance counselor, she provided inspiration and love for all whose li
 THALHEIM-Beth. An extraordinary person and devoted friend. We will miss her greatly. Morris and Doris Sobin and Family       
 TOR-Naomi. An urban Planner, former Director of Planning in Yorktown on Oct. 8, 1998. Wife of Abba, Mother of Shuli and the late Daniel. Sister of Esse Blumenthal. Funeral on Sunday at 10AM, Temple Beth Shalom, 740 Broadway, Hastings on Hudson, NY 10706. Memorials in her name may be sent to
 WEINSTEIN - Charlotte. Loving mother of Susan and Laura. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Amanda and Michal. Died as she lived on October 8, 1998, in dignity and surrounded by the care and support of all who knew her. Her integrity, intelligence and wisdom have left a mark which will last throu
 WINARICK-Gladys. On October 5, 1998. Beloved mother of Nancy and Ken, loving grandmother of Aura and Daniel, mother in-law-of Richard and Wendy. Psychotherapist for many years; beloved by her patients.       
 Alicia Parla, a sinuous Cuban-born beauty who had a brief but incandescent run as the international Queen of the Rumba, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in Miami. She was 84 and was recalled as the teen-age sensation who became the toast of New York and Paris, captivated crowned heads 
 BALSAM-Geraldine Powell. Died September 23, 1998, after a long illness. She was a fine artist and an inspiring art teacher at Packer Collegiate Institute. She had a gift for friendship and will be greatly missed by her many friends in Brooklyn Heights, Block Island and elsewhere.       
 BLACK-Virginia Bergen. Of New York City and Shelter Island, New York. On September 12, 1998. Daughter of the late Douglas McCrae Black and Maude Bergen Black. Direct descendant of Sarah Rapalje, the first child of European parents born in New Amsterdam. She was a graduate of The Nightingale
 BLANKSTEEN-Anna W. In her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of David Blanksteen, Norma Braver and Rita Miller. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Services are private.       
 FINKELSTEIN-Ella. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late David Finkelstein of blessed memory; loving mother of Sidney and the late Florence, Irving and Shirley, Doris and Norman and Allen and Shelley. Grandmother of Joy and Barry, Andrew, Nancy and Karen, Steven, Ricky and Joni, Jill, Jennifer an
 FRIEDENREICH-Lillian. beloved daughter of Goldie and Abraham O.B.M. Son David, Loving sister Helen and her children Julie and Gordon are grief stricken. Lilly succumbed after valient struggle. Rest in eternal peace. Amen.       
 FROELICH-Martha T. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Martha T. Froelich. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus
 FROELICH-Martha Tuchman. On October 9, 1998. Wife of the late James D. Froelich. Beloved mother of Edward (Joanne) and Robert (Denise). Devoted sister of Lucille Jaffe and the late Dr. Lester R. Tuchman. Loving grandmother of Laura, Cecilia, James, Emma and Helen Froelich. Friends may call 
 GERBER-Byrdie. On October 10, 1998. In her 96th year. Beloved daughter of the late Charles and Bessie Gerber. Cherished sister of Libby Hillman and the late Philip, Julius and Irving Gerber. Adored aunt and great-aunt. Services today, 1 PM, October 11, at Menorah Cemetery, Clifton, NJ.     
 SCIOSCIA-Roberta Lee, 43. Loving wife of Anthony Scioscia, beloved daughter of Allan Passin and Lola Laub, adored sister of Monica Passin, loved niece of Mary Levine, Sara Haskell & Joe Szmuller, cherished stepparents Odile Passin & Jack Laub. Loved by her stepdaughters, Doreen and Jill, th
 SHERMAN-Paula (Schwartz), nee Rubin. Of Forest Hills, NY. On October 7, 1998. With great bravery and dignity after a short illness. Beloved mother, sister, aunt. Dear friend to many. We will not see her like again. Cremation private.       
 SPATZ-Beverly C. Died peacefully on October 9, 1998, with her beloved husband Theodore Spatz by her side. Beloved and devoted mother of Gail Spatz Krischer and dear mother-in-law of Kenneth Krischer, M.D., of Fort Lauderdale, FL. Services will be held Sunday, at 11 AM, at Temple Sholom, Pom
 SUVELIN-Gertrude. On October 2, 1998. She will always be remembered by her friends and family. May she rest in everlasting peace.       
 von ROSENBERG - Angelique ''Gisela'' (Baroness) on September 28, died suddenly at home after a prolonged illness. She was the cherished wife of David Miller of Chicago. She had been a visiting lecturer in German Literature at the Graduate School, University of Illionois at Chicago and a sch
 ROSENBLOOM - Zelda G., 1926-1998. The family & friends of Zelda will gather for a celebration of her life, Wednesday, October 14, 1998 at 4:00 P.M., at The New York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, NY, NY. Please join us.       
 BALSAM-Geraldine Powell. Died September 23, 1998, after a long illness. She was a fine artist and an inspiring art teacher at Packer Collegiate Institute. She had a gift for friendship and will be greatly missed by her many friends in Brooklyn Heights, Block Island and elsewhere.       
 FROELICH-Martha Tuchman. On October 9, 1998. Wife of the late James D. Froelich. Beloved mother of Edward (Joanne) and Robert (Denise). Devoted sister of Lucille Jaffe and the late Dr. Lester R. Tuchman. Loving grandmother of Laura, Cecilia, James, Emma and Helen Froelich. Friends may call 
 GILKESON-Elizabeth C. Age 95, on October 7, 1998. Founder of the Poughkeepsie Day School; Founding Director of the Bank Street School for Children and senior faculty member at Bank Street College. Beloved grandmother of Robert C. Gilkeson, M.D., Nancy O'Connor-Reedy, Elizabeth C. O'Connor, 
 WOODCOCK-Frances Bennett, 82, of Hope Valley, RI. Died Tuesday, October 6, 1998, in Westerly, RI. She was the widow of Robert B. Woodcock. Born in Chicago, IL, a daughter of the late Clinton Alexander Bennett and Frances Forshew Bennett. She is survived by two daughters, Mary W. Johnson of 
 ROSENBLOOM - Zelda G., 1926-1998. The family & friends of Zelda will gather for a celebration of her life, Wednesday, October 14, 1998 at 4:00 P.M., at The New York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, NY, NY. Please join us.       
 CELLA-Mindy. In memory of our friend and colleague, Mindy Cella. Mindy will be remembered by all as a very special and courageous lady. She had the unique ability to make those around her laugh and to laugh at herself. She will be deeply missed. From her colleagues at Aaronson Rappaport Fei
 EGAN-Mary (Nee Boyle). On October 10, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Michael T. Devoted mother of Mary Garvey and Theresa Egan, dear grandmother of Sean. After graduating, The College of Mount St. Vincent, she went on to serve as a 1st Lt. in the United States Women's Army Corp. She will be
 FIELDS-Jessica. Age 96. On October 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Michael Dana. Cherished mother of Stanley and Nancy. We mourn the passing of our adorable Jessica, through all her days, in so many ways, a perfect blending of sweetness and strength. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell
 GILKESON-Elizabeth C. Age 95, on October 7, 1998. Founder of the Poughkeepsie Day School; Founding Director of the Bank Street School for Children and senior faculty member at Bank Street College. Beloved grandmother of Robert C. Gilkeson, M.D., Nancy O'Connor-Reedy, Elizabeth C. O'Connor, 
 GREENE-Margot. On October 3 at 106. Beloved wife of the late Irving J., loving mother of Joan Lazarus, cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral was held. She will always be loved.       
 LEVY-Helen B. On Oct. 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Caring mother of Louise Cooperstein & the late Jim Linden. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Judith, Steven and Richard. Adored great-grandmother of Eva, Paula and Gregory. Devoted mother-inlaw of Miriam Goldman. She loved us
 NOVOK-Ruth J. (nee Fiegmeister). Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York, beloved wife of the late Daniel A., adored mother of Barbara J. Klein, and Gail-ellen Goldberg. Precious mother to Marc Goldberg and the late Robert J. Klein, cherished grandmother of Karen, Gary, Bruce, and Allison, 
 SHERIDAN-Nancy. Actress. 95. Died of natural causes Oct. 3, 1998, at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington. Ms. Sheridan's career spanned four decades including vaudville and the Palace. She started on Broadway as an ingenue in ''Sure Fire'' and later appeared in ''Celebrity,'' ''10 Per Cen
 SORKEN-Fran. Age 57. Died at her home in Yorktown Heights, NY, on Saturday, October 10. She was the loving wife of Edward, beloved mother of Elizabeth and Jonathan, dear sister of Natalie Hannon, Margaret Rodkin, and Ronald Rodkin. Funeral Services were held on Sunday, October 11, at the Yo
 BERGNER-Rose (nee Grenadier). Died September 18, 1998 in La Jolla, Ca. Widow of Harold A. Bergner, M.D. Devoted mother of Elaine Schneider. Grandmother of Danielle and Jane Schneider. Great-grandmother of Rachel Eaton. Cherished sister of George and Simon Grenadier. Her family including man
 BLACK-Lorna Christensen, 53. Of St. Louis, Missouri, formerly of Bronxville, New York. Daughter of Gladys and Harold Christensen. 1967 graduate of Sweet Briar College. She is survived by Dameron Black and their children Emily and Ned of St. Louis, her father, Harold Christensen, of Boynton 
 GILKESON-Elizabeth C. The Trustees, administration, faculty, staff, students and alumni of Bank Street College of Education mourn the passing of Elizabeth C. Gilkeson. For more than forty years, she played a significant role in developing many of the major programs that characterize the Col
 MYERS-Elizabeth Watson. Died on October 9, 1998 in Menlo Park, California at 68 years of age. Educator, Counselor, Administrator at American University, Georgetown University & Syracuse University. Graduate of the University of Chicago. After residing in Washington, D.C. and New York City f
 NOVOK-Ruth J. (nee Siegmeister). Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York, beloved wife of the late Daniel A., adored mother of Barbara J. Klein, and Gail-ellen Goldberg. Precious mother to Marc Goldberg and the late Robert J. Klein, cherished grandmother of Karen, Gary, Bruce, and Allison, 
 PRINCE-Helen Elizabeth Peirce. 76, of New York City, died on Saturday, October 10, 1998, after a brief illness. She is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Prince de Ramel; her son, Frederick Henry Prince, and five grandchildren, Diana Elizabeth Oehrli, Guillaume and Regis de Ramel, Cynthia 
 SCHAEFER-Bertha G. Peacefully in her 91st year on the the first night of Sukkot. Devoted wife of the late David. Dear mother of Batya (Ezra) Levin and Marsha (Dr. Martin) Rubinowitz. Beloved grandmother of Zachary, Ayala, Rachel and Sarah. She leaves her parents' good name enhanced as a leg
 STRANAHAN-Marion, M.D. Age 98, on October 11. Dedicated psychiatrist who practiced in Manhattan for 70 years, specializing in children and adolescents. Her compassion and intelligence brought help to so many. Graduated from Indiana U. School of Medicine 1925. Former psychiatric Director of 
 TIEBOUT-Alice Margaretta. At age 96, died peacefully on Sunday, October 11, in Huntington, L.I. A talented interior decorator-the Air Force Academy Chapel was one of her projects-she was also an accomplished amateur musician in the Tiebout family tradition. During World War II, she served w
 FORMAN-Marsha. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation are deeply saddened by the death of Marsha Forman, beloved mother of Amy Rubenstein, our 1999 Lion of Judah chair, and mother-in-law of Howard J. Rubenstein, co-chair of UJA-Federation's Business Leaders Forum and 
 HERMAN-June (nee Abelson). On October 14, 1998 of Cedar Grove, N.J. Devoted mother of Alan and Daniel Herman. Adored sister of Florence Goldfarb and Elaine Stalford. Loving grandmother of five grandchildren. She was the Vice President of Jabel Inc of Irvington, NJ. Funeral Services conducte
 LUKENS-Kathleen. The College of New Rochelle records with sorrow the death of Kathleen Lukens, compassionate champion of the developmentally disabled, 1984 recipient of the Doctor of Humane Letters degree, and beloved wife of Dr. John Lukens of the psychology department. We mourn her loss a
 NATHANSON-Irene. The Shelter Rock Jewish Center deeply mourns the passing of our longtime member and dearest friend and offers sincere condolences to her family. Shelter Rock will miss Irene and Jerry. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Stanley Shanies, President       
 STEIN - Peggy. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of our beloved member, Peggy Stein. We will always remember her love of family, and abiding Jewish commitment. We send deepest condolences to her husband Bernard, their children, Robert Stein and Lynn Igel, and all their dear ones
 ZEBRAK-Mary. Passed away October 13, 1998. She is survived by her devoted son Ira and daughter Mildred. Her beloved sister Beatrice Tobias, and her brother Samuel Orzitzer. In loving memory.       
 ZIMMERMAN-Honora. On October 10, 1998. Beloved mother of Daniel and Matthew. Cherished grandmother to Natalie. Loving daughter of Mildred and the late Edwin Coane. Dear sister of Linda Copeland and Ethan Coane. Services Thursday, 5 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. The w
 FORMAN-Marsha. Congregation Talmud Torah of Flatbush mourns the passing of Marsha Forman. Marsha possessed keen intellect, ready wit and a sweet character. She will be lovingly remembered. Our condolences to her devoted husband Sol and daughters Marilyn, Amy and Ellie. Dr. Leo Landman, Rabb
 GLUCKMAN-Olga. On October 15, 1998. Beloved music teacher and friend to many. Her vitality and her gift for making life more interesting for those around her will be missed by many of those she knew.       
 LUKENS-Kathleen. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Kathleen Lukens, compassionate champion of the developmentally disabled, 1984 recipient of the Doctor of Humane Letters degree, and beloved wife of Dr. John Lukens of the psychology department. We mourn 
 MARGOLIS-Dr. Renee K. The administration, faculty, staff and students of SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourn the passing of our colleague, Dr. Renee K. Margolis, professor of pharmacology. Dr. Margolis was an esteemed scientist whose pioneering studies on the structure and function of brain
 MICHAEL-Minna. On October 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Ephraim and the late Olga Gladstone. Adoring grandmother of Candi Sue Scott, Robin Wilson and the late Carol Arava, and greatgrandmother of Adam Chait, Jeffrey Chait and Zaran Arava. Services at Frank E. C
 ROSENTHAL-Anny nee Arnstein., age 77 of Bayside, New York passed away early morning October 15 at Calvary Hospital. She is survived by husband Ernest of 49 years, son Dr. Allan Rosenthal and wife Cheryl and granddaughters Dana and Erica of Ridgefield, Connecticut and son Jeff Rosenthal of F
 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 MICHAEL-Minna. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our long-time member and Trustee. In her 100 plus years of life, Minna was a loyal mother, an ardent supporter of Israel, and a devoted Jew.       
 VERGARA-Dr. Allys Dwyer. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Dr. Allys Dwyer Vergara, Class of 1924, Professor Emeritus of Speech and English. A caring, concerned, loyal friend and advocate for almost 80 years, she lovingly and unselfishly shared her long,
 Elizabeth Chapman Gilkeson, an educator associated with the Bank Street College of Education for more than four decades and the founding director of its School for Children, died on Oct. 7 at her home in lower Manhattan. She was 95. As a senior faculty member of Bank Street College,
 Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Ro
 ALEXANDER-Beatrice. Died October 15. Services will be at the Mt. Pleasant Cemetery in Hawthorne, NY, at noon today. Survived by her two brothers Norman Alexander and Alex Alexander. She was a loyal sister and we mourn her loss.       
 BLACK-Virginia Bergen. Of New York City and Shelter Island, New York. On September 23, 1998. Daughter of the late Douglas McCrae Black and Maude Bergen Black. Direct descendant of Sarah Rapalje, the first child of European parents born in New Amsterdam. She was a graduate of The Nightingale
 BLEVINS-Anne. We are saddened by the death of our longtime colleague Anne Blevins on October 5, 1998. Anne was first a nurse, then a microbiologist and finally, a hospital epidemiologist in a long and distinguished career at New York University, Columbia University, and the last 44 years at
 DELGADO deTorres-Mercedes Salvador. Born December 28, 1907, Madrid, Spain. Died July 2, 1998, at Beth Israel Hospital, New York. Widow of Demetrio Delgado deTorres. Pre-deceased by her eldest son Juan. She is survived by her three children, Ines, Pablo, and Miguel, and five grandchildren, M
 FREUDMANN-Andree. On October 15, 1998. Beloved wife of Marcel, adored mother of Gladys Wilson, Axel Freudmann and Nora Warshauer. Dearest mother-inlaw of Lee Wilson, Lauren Freudmann and Bruce Warshauer. Adoring grandmother of Dana, Emily, Lizy, Laura and Sammy. Spirited, funloving and deep
 GROSSKOPF-Natalie. On October 16, 1998. Beloved wife of Neil. Devoted daughter of Naomi and the late Judge Saul Moskoff. Adored mother of Marnie Bernstein and Meredith Lieberman. Loving mother-in-law of Jeff Bernstein and grandmother of Josh Bernstein. Cherished stepmother of Jennifer, Jona
 HUGHES-Eileen Lanouette. 73. Died suddenly on October 8, 1998 in Florence, Italy while vacationing with dear friends. Born June 11, 1925, Mrs. Hughes was a former international correspondent for Life Magazine. In 1951, she married Emmet John Hughes, Life Editor. After their separation, Mrs.
 MICHAEL-Minna. On October 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Ephraim and the late Olga Gladstone. Adoring grandmother of Candi Sue Scott, Robin Wilson and the late Carol Arava, and greatgrandmother of Adam Chait, Jeffrey Chait and Zaran Arava. Services at Frank E. C
 SAPIR-Fannie. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved mother of our dedicated Board of Directors member, Harriet Seif, who together with her devoted husband Heshi, are magnanimous benefactors of our AMIT children in Israel. A righteous woman of valor, Fannie Sapir epitimized co
 SCHARFING-Janis. Beloved wife of Leon ''Ruby.'' Loving mother of Sheryl and Alan. Dear sister of Lorraine. Cherished grandmother of Lance, Jennifer and Lauren. Devoted aunt to her nieces and nephews.       
 VAUGHAN-Madeline P. (Gartland), 86, died October 14, 1998 at the home of her daughter, Nancy Van Deusen in Watertown, Conn. Devoted wife of the late Robert B. Vaughan, Executive Vice-President of The Emigrant Savings Bank. Mrs. Vaughan was born on December 10, 1911 in New York City, daughte
 VERGARA-Dr. Allys Dwyer. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Dr. Allys Dwyer Vergara, Class of 1924, Professor Emeritus of Speech and English. A caring, concerned, loyal friend and advocate for almost 80 years, she lovingly and unselfishly shared her long,
 WATTS-Florence. On October 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late William. Dearly loved Aunt of Lisa Burge, Robyn Jacobs and Gary Coe. Cherished and devoted friend to the many whose lives she touched and enriched. A graduate of Stanford University, she had a distinguished career in the service 
 WOOD-Dorothy F. Age 85, formerly of Manhattan, died October 16, 1998, in Middletown, NY, after a long illness. Born in Middletown, NY, November 3, 1912. She is survived by her sister Elizabeth Pippin of Old Greenwich, CT, her niece Elizabeth Leahey of Southport, CT, her nephew Curtis Pippin
 STEEL-Courtney. The soul takes flight to the world that is invisible and there arriving she is sure of bliss and forever dwells in paradise. M.A       
 Joan Hickson, a stage, screen and television actress who became an international celebrity when she played Miss Marple, Agatha Christie's sharp-witted elderly detective, in a BBC television series from 1984 to 1992, died over the weekend at a hospital in Colchester, Essex, said her son, Nic
 BERKOWITZ-Judith. On October 18th, 1998. Beloved daughter of Clara and the late Jack Berkowitz. Cherished sister of Susan and Robert Koweek. Loving aunt of Sharon, Jeffrey and Andrea. Adored niece of Honnie Marcus. Judy was a truly special person who touched the lives of everyone she knew. 
 DIMATOU-Sonia, M.D. On Oct. 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Alexandros Eleftheriadis, devoted sister of Andreas Dimatos. Service and interment in Greece. Contributions in her memory may be made to breast cancer research.       
 KANAREK-Adele. Congregation Kneseth Israel, Far Rockaway, NY, mourns with heartfelt sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, and extends condolences to the entire family. Tzvi Flaum, Rabbi Ralph Pelcovitz, Rabbi Emeritus Sheldon Steinmetz, President KANAREK-Adele. We extend sincer
 SINGER-Esther L., 85. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Beloved wife, mother, sister, grandmother, aunt of many nephews and nieces and cherished friend of many. She was a dedicated teacher for over 25 years in the junior and senior high schools of New York. She ended her career at Sheepshead 
 ZINMAN-Sadie. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of Alice Amelar and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 ZINMAN-Sadie (nee Krellenstein). 94. Died in Palm Beach, FL. Widow of Samuel. She leaves her son Walter, her daughter-in-law Carol Zinman, her daughter Alice, her son-in-law Richard Amelar, her daughter Ann and her son-in-law H. David Leventhal, nine grandchildren and thirteen great-grandch
 BLACK-Virginia Bergen. Of New York City and Shelter Island, New York. On September 23, 1998. Daughter of the late Douglas McCrae Black and Maude Bergen Black. Direct descendant of Sarah Rapalje, the first child of European parents born in New Amsterdam. She was a graduate of The Nightingale
 BRAND-Edith. Born in Monroe Michigan in 1892 and lived in New York City most of her life, passed away on October 20, 1998. She was the great great niece of Judah P. Benjamin, Secretary of State of the Confederacy. She is survived by daughter Barbara Brand, granddaughter Jill Gandolfi, and t
 COHEN-Eileen. On October 19, 1998. Adored wife of Bob, loving mother & mother-in-law to Bonni & David, Aimee, Devon and Erica, James & Cathy, Fred and Kathy, Mark, Charles and Jane, sister to Stan and loving grandmother to twenty wonderful children. She was the most loving, bravest, compass
 FANNING-Sr. Mary Mercedes, a Sister of the Divine Compassion died October 19, 1998. She was 92. Sister Mary Mercedes (b. Helen M. Fanning) on April 2, 1906 in the Fordham section of the Bronx, the daughter of Patrick J. and Mary Moore Fanning. She attended Our Lady of Mercy elementary schoo
 FREIBERG-Sylvia. Died suddenly in Newton, MA., on October 20, 1998, less than three years after the death of Sam, her beloved husband of sixty-one years. Loving mother of Peter and Eileen. Caring mother-in-law of Joe Tom and Barney. Devoted grandmother of Solana and Sabrina. Born in Russia 
 KANAREK - Adele. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva mourns the passing of a true Eishet Chayil, a magnificent lady who personified grace, dignity and strength. Together with her beloved husband, Dr. Irwin, Adele was a staunch supporter of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva and all worthy causes on be
 LITTWIN-Phyllis Duke of Tenafly, NJ. Died in her sleep, Monday, October 19 unexpectedly. Wife of Dr. Stuart Littwin. Mother of Carolyn Fischer, and Charles Littwin. Grandmother of Rachel and Jack. Sister of Herbert Duke. Daughterin-law of Ruth Littwin. Member of Temple Emeth Congregation in
 MASTERSON-Mary M. (nee McDonough) of Middletown, N.J., formerly of Irvington-on-the-Hudson, N.Y., on October 18, 1998. Wife of the late Francis D. Masterson. Mother of Claire M. Chamine. Grandmother of Courtney C. Moss and Suzanne B. Chamine. She has one great grandson. Mass of Christian Bu
 MULHALL-Helene. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its long time devoted member, Alvin K. Hellerstein. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elva Weinman, Sisterhood       
 POE-Frances T. The Inwood House Trustees, staff and friends mourn the loss of our colleague and dear friend Frances T. Poe. Greatly loved and admired for her generosity, determination and intellect, for 40 years Frances Poe was a driving force in insuring the integrity of Inwood House and t
 SCHNITZLER-Lucille H. Died on October 20, 1998 at the age of 92. Beloved daughter of the late Harry and Bertha Wilkus. Wife of the late Laurence Schnitzler who she married on October 20, 1929. She was the dear sister of the late Doris Miller, Ruth Rosenweig, Teddy and William Wilkus. Surviv
 WHITE-Susan. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Susan White, wife of Alan, mother of our beloved Senior Rabbi Michael and Rebecca, Lisa and Jeffrey Frankel and Carl, grandmother of David, Talia, Jayson & Justin. Our condolences to the family. ''May her memory be for a blessi
 LOWINGER-Fred W. MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Fred W. Lowinger, MD, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague Jane Falkenstein, MD, Medical Director for the Max Meltzer Geriatric Center. To Jane, her brother Leslie, the Lowinger an
 Megs Jenkins, a British stage, film and television actress who specialized in playing kindly, matronly characters, died on Oct. 5, said a spokeswoman for the Gordon Rodwell Funeral Service in Felixstow, Suffolk, where her funeral was held. She was 81. Miss Jenkins played many parts 
 ALFONSI-Phyllis. The Staff of American Presort are deeply sadden by the sudden death of our dear friend and associate. She will be forever remembered with fondness and respect. Viewing October 23rd. at 9am, McHoul Funeral Home, 655 Route 82, Hopewell Junction, New York.       
 GOODINSKY-Raye. 97, on October 20th, peacefully in her sleep. Sister of Florence Frank. Beloved aunt of David and Shoshana Bilowit, Ira Bilowit, Alice Spivak, Louise Bilowit, Toby and Paul Mitchell, Florence Frank and Eugene Frank. Loving great-aunt of William and Grela Bilowit, Michael Bil
 KEAST-Mary, formerly Macassey(nee Vance).Died peacefully October 12 Browhill Nursing Home, St.Peter Port, Guernsey, C.I. Remembered with affection by her family and friends.       
 KRUGER-Miriam. October 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Kruger. Loving mother of Arline Rodman and her husband Norman, and Edward Kruger and his wife Suzanne. Cherished grandmother of Linda Rodman, Barbara McGrath, Debra Rodman, Roberta Hanley, Gary Kruger, Jonathan Kruger, Douglas
 MARESCO-Rachel. On October 20, 1998. Beloved daughter to Isaac Cohen and Anna Colchamiro Cohen. Loving sister to Esther, Molly, Beatrice and Sophia, and the late Sarah Jacob and Diana. Aunt and great aunt to many. Rachel touched many through her constant dedication and commitment to the hel
 McPHATTER-GORE-Lena. On October 18, 1998. Her charming, wonderful spirit will be forever missed by her loving family, friends and relatives. Memorial service November 14 at 3PM, Rutger's Presbyterian Church, 236 West 73 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers donations to the Lena McPhatterGore Fund es
 ANDERSON-Dr. Margaret McKee, 90, died October 19, 1998, in Carthage, IL. Preceded in death by husband Orrin E. Anderson in 1972. She was graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1928 and from Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1932. She spent most of her life in Riverdale, NY, where 
 CASWELL-Doria A., 75 years old. Of West Palm Beach, Florida, died on Monday, October 19, 1998 at a local hospital. She is survived by her loving husband of over 40 years, Walter H. Caswell, Jr. of West Palm Beach, FL; son, George Y. deRandich of West Palm Beach, FL; sister, Odessa Cassuci o
 GROB-Elizabeth, on October 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Dr. David. Loving mother of Charles and Anne, Susan and Lou, Emily and Mark, and Philip. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie, Jana, Alexandra and Brett. Loving sister of Judy. She was loving and compassionate to family and friends. Funeral
 KERPNER-Sandra. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Sandra Kerpner, beloved sister of our devoted members Mark & Jennifer Landesmann. Sincere condolences to them, her parents Peter and Ellen Landesmann, her husband Richard, daughter Naomi, and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier 
 KRAMER-Lenore. With great sadness we mourn the death of our beloved sister-in-law for half a century. Cherished by a loving, accomplished family and many friends, she will be deeply missed as a compassionate, loving human being. Julian and Ruth Kramer       
 MANES-Florence. Died peacefully in her sleep October 14, 1998. Beloved aunt of Barbara Joan Grubman, Jack (Leslie) Manes and Jill (Robert) Rosen; sister-inlaw Geraldine Manes. Also survived by several great-nieces and nephews. Affectionately known by all of us as ''The Mayor of 8th Street i
 McPHATTER-GORE-Lena. On October 18, 1998. Her charming, wonderful spirit will be forever missed by her loving family, friends and relatives. Memorial service November 14 at 3PM, Rutger's Presbyterian Church, 236 West 73 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers donations to the Lena McPhatterGore Fund es
 MULHALL-Helene. AMIT is deeply grieved at the untimely passing of the beloved sister of our most devoted friend, advisor and supporter, Alvin Hellerstein, and cherished sister-in-law of our most dedicated National Vice President, Mildred Hellerstein. A person of many talents, Helene Mulhall
 SADOCK-Rosabelle J. Beautiful and devoted wife of Jules B. Sadock. Died on October 22, 1998. She is survived by her beloved husband, her son Geoffrey, her daughter Dona, her daughter-inlaw Karen and her granddaughter Katharine. The funeral is private. A memorial service will be held at a fu
 SELTZ-Rose. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Rose Seltz, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President       
 SPICEHANDLER - Esther (nee Brafman). On October 22, 1998. She celebrated life by devoting herself to others and performing mitzvot. Loving wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral services today, 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. SPICEHA
 SPIEGLER-Freda Lebowitz. On October 20, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Ellen and Larry Stein, Howard Spiegler and Jayne Cohen. Beloved grandmother of Sandy and Julie Stein, and Robert and Liz Stein and Alexandra Cohen-Spiegler. Dear Aunt and great-aunt. Memorial con
 FRIEDLAND - Josine. Devoted wife of the late Morton. Loving mother of Melissa, Edward and Lesley. Cherished mother-in-law of Barry, Lisa and Andrew. Beloved grandmother of Gregory, Jonathan, Henry, Eric, Elliot, Ethan, Seth, Abigail and Matthew. Tireless in her efforts to help those in need
 Cleusa Millet, a former nurse who became the spiritual leader of one of the most celebrated Candomble temples in Brazil, died on Oct. 15 in Salvador da Bahia. She was 67. Newspapers reported the cause of death as heart failure. Known as Mother Cleusa, Mrs. Millet presided ov
 Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone, the grande dame of sex education, died yesterday at the Kendal at Longwood nursing home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 94 and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for the last decade. Indefatigable and fired by a zeal for sexual responsibility and reali
 COMERFORD-Maire K. The many friends and colleagues of Maire K. Comerford, former Director of Nursing at The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary,profoundly mourn her death on October 21, 1998. She was loved and will be missed by everyone who knew her. A Memorial Mass will be held on Wednesday, Oc
 GROSSER-Dorothy M., nee Kanter, of Queens Village, NY and Sherman, CT, on October 18, 1998. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, friend, loving companion, quilter, gardener. She opened her heart and her home to all of us. We will miss her terribly and love her always.       
 KANAREK-Adele. Yeshiva University Women's Organization expresses its grief and sorrow upon the untimely demise of Adele Kanarek, a gracious long-time member of our organization and a National Vice President of Y.U.W.O. We extend our warmest sympathy to her husband, Dr. Irwin Kanarek, their 
 LICHTENSTEIN - Ray. Yeshiva University Women's Organization expresses its grief and sorrow upon the passing of Ray Lichtenstein, a staunch, devoted member who held many important positions during her long tenure with Y.U.W.O. We extend our warmest sympathy to her daughters Gail Daitch and D
 MACOMBER-Jean. Died on Sunday, October 18th at Waveny Care Center in New Canaan, Connecticut. She was 95. Daughter of Alexander Brough, Jr. and Alice Southworth Macomber Brough, sister of John A. Brough, Miss Macomber is survived by her nephew and godson John A. Brough, Jr. of New Canaan, C
 McKEE-Dr. Margaret Anderson, 90, died Oct 19, 1998, in Carthage, IL. Preceded in death by husband Orrin E. Anderson in 1972. She was graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1928 and from Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1932. She spent most of her life in Riverdale, NY, where she 
 REUILLARD - Pearl Schwartz. Died October 23, peacefully at home at age 90. Pearl was a retired teacher from Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. She was involved in political activities all of her life, especially with The League of Women Voters. Pearl will be missed by her many nieces
 SADOCK-Rosabelle J. Beautiful and devoted wife of Jules B. Sadock. Died on October 22, 1998. She is survived by her beloved husband, her son Geoffrey, her daughter Dona, her daughter-inlaw Karen and her granddaughter Katharine. The funeral is private. A memorial service will be held at a fu
 SOLOMON-Joan. The Board of Directors of the Tranquillity Alumni acknowledges with deepest sorrow the passing of our beloved friend and fellow Tranquillity-ite, Joan Solomon. ''Joanie'' was a hard working Board member and lifelong supporter of Camp Tranquillity. Together with her husband Joe
 McGINNIS-NELSON-Juliette. A memorial tribute to her life at 10AM, Monday, Oct. 26, St. John the Divine Cathedral, Amsterdam & 112 Street. The family requests that donations in her memory be sent to The Boys Choir of Harlem, Inc., 2005 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10035, in lieu of flowers. 
 AUMANN-Esther (nee Schlesinger). Age 67, wife of Robert John Aumann, passed away October 23, in Jerusalem. Buried on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem. Esther is survived by her husband, four children, 14 grandchildren, four sisters and a brother. Esther's thirst for knowledge was insatiable
 CALDERONE-Dr. Mary S. The Board of Directors and staff of SIECUS mourn the passing of Mary S. Calderone, our co-founder and President, 1964-1982. Dr. Calderone's vision and commitment will forever be our inspiration. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. William Yarber, Chair Debr
 GRAF-Berta. Beloved wife of the late Oskar. Dear mother of Rudolf and Bettina. Loving grandmother of Jeffrey and Roberta Graf, Debbie and Mark Berman. Cherished great-grandmother of Allison, Sheryl, Daniel, David, Russell and Scott. Holocaust survivor from Vienna. Her warmth, loving kindnes
 LEVINSON-Anne E. On October 25, 1998 at Berkshire Place, Pittsfield, MA, after a long decline. Formerly of 25 Sutton Place South. Devoted wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Joan L. Silverman and mother-in-law of Richard A. Silverman. Grandmother of Michael, Elizabeth Haddad and Katha
 MITTENTHAL-Minnie. Lived with grace and dignity for 95 years. Devoted wife of the late Phillip Mittenthal and the late Henry Brand. Treasured by daughter and son-inlaw Phyllis and Larry Bangser and their children and grandchildren, and by Larry and Estelle Mittenthal and Richard and Joyce M
 REUILLARD - Pearl Schwartz. Died October 23, peacefully at home at age 90. Pearl was a retired teacher from Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. She was involved in political activities all of her life, especially with The League of Women Voters. Pearl will be missed by her many nieces
 SADOCK-Rosabelle J. Beautiful and devoted wife of Jules B. Sadock. Died on October 22, 1998. She is survived by her beloved husband, her son Geoffrey, her daughter Dona, her daughter-inlaw Karen and her granddaughter Katharine. The funeral is private. A memorial service will be held at a fu
 SENK-Leonore. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Laurie Katz Braun, Asst. Rabbi       
 TROPP-Ethel Robbins. Age 96. On October 24, 1998. Devoted wife of the late James Tropp. Loving mother of Alberta T. and Lester Salkin, Yvonne D. and the late Alan R. Tropp. Cherished grandmother of Leslie and Lester Millman, Jonathan and Oleasa Salkin, Karen and Robert Veronesi, Janis Tropp
 Georgianna Morris Crowther Kappes, a longtime teacher of history in private schools, died on Oct. 17 at Greenwich Hospital. She was 94 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mrs. Kappes, known as Nancy, was born in Lutherville, Md., and graduated from National Cathedral School in Washington 
 CALDERONE-Mary S. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University mourn the loss of its distinguished alumna, Mary S. Calderone, MD, MS '42. A true visionary, co-founder of SIECUS, and indefatigable leader in sexual responsibil
 FORMAN-Louise. Beloved wife of Howard for 50 years. Devoted mother of Stephen, Deborah and Benson. Loving grandmother of Rebekah, Johanna, Noah, Daniel and Isabella. Guardian member of Temple Beth-El of Rockaway Park. Loved by all, she will be in our hearts forever. Funeral services 12 noon
 KAUFMANN - Deborah. Debby was our friend, confidant and inspiration. She leaves behind two wonderful daughters, Jessica and Anya, her mother Ruth, sister Molly and many friends who loved her. Glenn Muller and Nancy Pine       
 LIEF-Lila Ehrich, 72, of Chestnut Hill, MA, formerly of New York City, died of leukemia on October 26 at her home. Her husband, Dr. Philip A. Lief of the Brigham and Women's Hospital and the Harvard Medical School, died in 1992. She is survived by her four children, William Lief of Manalapa
 MARGETSON-Rose C. (nee Willoughby). On October 24, 1998, of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late composer, organist and founder of the Schubert Music Society, Edward H. Margetson. Mother of Barbara M. Watson and Desmond W. Margetson. Grandmother of Craig and Dr. Marc Watson and Evan and N
 RORKE-Jacqueline (nee Billingsley), 72, of Hackensack, NJ, formerly of Manhattan NY and Hollywood FL on October 25, 1998. She was the daughter of Sherman and Hazel Billingsley, owners of the Stork Club in New York City. Mrs. Rorke had attended the Spence School and graduated from Finch Coll
 STAMM-Trudy. On October 25, 1998 at home. She had a full and vibrant life: family, friends, the arts, travel, the joy of writing, her beloved ballet. A spirited woman. Sister of Muriel Schertz, Benjamin, Dorothy, Milton and the late Raymond and Abraham. Visitation Tuesday, 2-7 PM at Horne-D
 TROPP-Ethel Robbins. Age 96. On October 24, 1998. Devoted wife of the late James Tropp. Loving mother of Alberta T. and Lester Salkin, Yvonne D. and the late Alan R. Tropp. Cherished grandmother of Leslie and Lester Millman, Jonathan and Oleasa Salkin, Karen and Robert Veronesi, Janis Tropp
 Winnie Ruth Judd, who spent three decades in an Arizona state mental hospital as the notorious ''trunk murderess'' in one of the most sensational criminal cases of the 1930's, died in Phoenix on Friday. She was 93. With the Great Depression at full strength in the fall of 1931 and n
 ALTMAN-Rhoda. Beloved daughter of Gus Blau. Beloved wife of Hank. Beloved mother of Red and Steve. She will be greatly missed by all of those who had the pleasure of knowing and loving her. Services private. Groman Mortuary, California.       
 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 FULLER-Geraldine Spreckels, 79, a homemaker passed away on October 25, 1998, at her residence in Palm Beach, Florida. Private services will be held. Memorial prayers will be announced at a later date. Memorials may be made to the Four Arts, Four Arts Plaza, Palm Beach, FL 33480. Mrs. Andrew
 HIRSCHFELD-Janet Rubner. Age 56. Beloved wife and best friend of Jimmy. Treasured mother of Jennie and Julie. Dear sister of Judy, Robert and Paul. Adored and remembered by all who knew her. Memorial service Noon Friday, October 30th, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th. In lieu of flowe
 SEEGER-Alicia, at age 76, loved by all who knew her, beloved wife for fifty-six years of Louis, mother of Carol Risher (John), Joshua (Judith), and Julie Sano (John); devoted grandmother of Adam & Jeanine Seeger, Mark and Conrad Risher, & Sam Sano; loving sister of Bill Krasilovsky & Alfred
 Evelyn Sabin, who performed with Martha Graham's first dance company in the mid-1920's, died on Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Sabin was a student of Graham's at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y., when
 AUSTIN-Mimi F. On October 28, 1998. Much loved mother of Diane Gidding and Rob Austin, sister of Stephen Fields, devoted grandmother of Zack Gidding and Robin Snow, dear sister-in-law of Suzanne, loving mother-in-law of Diane Austin and Josh Gidding. Fiercely loyal and devoted to her family
 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 FINKELSTEIN - Eva (Levine Ghen). Died October 27, 1998. Survived by her son Edward, daughter Timmy, daughter-in-law Myra, five grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Graveside service Friday 10:30 A.M. at Mt. Eden Cemetery, 20 Commerce St, Valhalla.       
 FITZGERALD-Janet (nee Opperman) of Queens, NY formerly of Toledo, Ohio. A Senior Business Analyst with Nautica Enterprises, Inc., died Oct. 25, 1998. Survived by her husband, John T. Fitzgerald; father, Willis H. Opperman; daughter, Kelly Martin; sister, Judith A. Scoville; and brother, Dan
 GREENE-Marion Thompson. Of Manhattan. On October 28, 1998 in her 100th year. Survived by three nephews and several grand and great-grand-nieces and nephews. Funeral services private.       
 MANNES-Evelyn. The administration and faculty of Mannes College of Music mourn the passing of Mrs. Leopold Mannes, who served on the Board of Trustees from 1979 to 1989 as the widow of a distinguished former President of the College, the son of the founding family. We extend our deepest sym
 SCHIFF-Isabell (nee Pendleton). Loving wife of Samuel for 57 years, died October 16, 1998 at age 87. She is survived by her husband.       
 STERNBACH-Ruth, on October 26, 1998 in Norwalk, CT, a resident of Westport, CT and Delray, FL, survived by her husband, Louis Sternbach, her sister, Patricia Brown of Cleveland, OH, two nieces and a nephew. Private services from Abraham L. Green & Son, Fairfield, CT. Memorial contributions 
 WALD-Addy. Professor of English at Jersey City State College and writer. Died peacefully on October 27, 1998 at age 82 in her Manhattan home. She was the wife of the late Dr. Arthur H. Wald, the loving mother of Leslie Blankfein and mother-in-law of Dr. Robert J. Blankfein (of Manhattan) an
 AUSTIN-Mimi F. On October 28, 1998. Much loved mother of Diane Gidding and Rob Austin, sister of Stephen Fields, devoted grandmother of Zack Gidding and Robin Snow, dear sister-in-law of Suzanne, loving mother-in-law of Diane Austin and Josh Gidding. Fiercely loyal and devoted to her family
 BOSKEY-Shirley Ecker. Age 80 on October 13, 1998. Survived by husband Bennett Boskey, her brother Allan B. Ecker of New York City, her sister Laura Ecker Ludwig of New York City, her nieces Lisa Ludwig Kahn of San Francisco, Amy Ludwig of Chicago, and Sarah Rice Ecker Cooper of Houston, and
 LAWRENCE - Barbara Childs. Died peacefully at her home, South Pole Farm in Norfolk, Connecticut on October 23, 1998 at the age of 86. She was the widow of James F. Lawrence and was predeceased by two children, Peter F. Lawrence & Jane Lawrence Mali. She is survived by four children: Barbara
 NICHOLSON-Dorothy, age 93. On October 28th, 1998. Survived by her nieces and nephews, Diane Keenan, Jane Sumereau, Thomas and Paul Nicholson. Funeral mass at Mary Manning Walsh Home, 1339 York Avenue at 72 Street, today, October 30, 9:30 AM.       
 ROUBICEK-Beatrice Cole. Former model, actress and playwright died in her sleep Monday in Needham, MA. Mrs. Roubicek was 88 years old. Born in Winthrop, MA to British parents Mrs. Roubicek grew up in NYC and was educated at private schools in NY and Europe. She was married to the late Joseph
 SHERMAN-Frieda. (nee Edelstein). Of Yorktown Heights, New York, and Boynton Beach, Florida. Died on October 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Sherman, and Bill Siegfried. Dear aunt to Barbara Poret, Bonnie & Michael Lieberman, Ali & Philip Edelstein. Loving great-aunt to Howard, Jay
 SHUSTER-Rita. Loving and devoted wife, ''world's best Mom'', step-mother, sister, aunt, 2nd Mom. Loved and adored by countless friends. Accomplished pianist, supporter of AIDS research and volunteer at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. Always with us. Services at Sherman's Funeral Home, 1283 Cone
 SMALL-Blanche. Died peacefully October 28, in New Haven. Formerly of New York City, Mount Vernon, N.Y. and San Rafael, CA. She was born April 24, 1899. Survived by her four children, Peter, Roger, Claire Javna and Nina Salamon, ten grandchildren and ten great grandchildren.       
 TETELMAN-Catherine (Ferrara). Of Pleasantville, NY on October 27, 1998. Beloved wife for 54 years of Charles. Adored mother of Marcia (Tommy Dietz), Ronald (Annmarie), and Mary Kay Arena (Joseph). Devoted grandmother of four. Loved and remembered by all who knew her as a friend and teacher.
 WADDELL-Jeanette Connolly. Died November 28. A resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Waddell was a business woman who was active in many Catholic charities. She is survived by her sister, Frances McGorry of Wilmington, N.C., and by five nieces and nephews. Memorial mass is Saturday at 2PM at St. John
 Deidre S. Murphy, assistant managing editor for news at The Star-Ledger of Newark, died on Thursday at St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken. She was 47. Ms. Murphy was hospitalized after suffering a stroke on Wednesday night as she walked near her home in Hoboken, said Scott Ladd, metropoli
 EISENBERG-Yvette (nee Neufeld). Of Woodsburgh, L.I. On October 29, 1998. Devoted wife of Alfred. Beloved mother of Jacqui, Mikel, and Jeffrey. Cherished grandmother of Daniel and Jared. Dear sister of Arlene Rubinstein, of Philadelphia, Pa. and Saul Neufeld, of Costa Mesa, Ca. She will be r
 GALLEN-Betty, died peacefully at her home Friday, October 30, 1998. Beloved wife of Herbert for 61 years, loving mother of Joan Megibow and Nancy Scheriff, dear sister of Doris Konner, devoted grandmother to Terri and Andrew Megibow, Michael, Adam and Todd Runyon, Tracy and Megan Scheriff, 
 KATZ-Helen. Passed away October 29, 1998. Of Delray Beach, FL. Loving wife of the late William, adored mother of Marlene (Marvin) Padover, George (Evelyn) Katz and Adele Katz. Cherished grandmother of Roger, Craig, Kenneth, Mitchell, Richard and Douglas. Most cherished greatgrandmother of h
 KELLEHER-M. Eileen. 79. Of Norwich, CT. Beloved wife of the late Dr. James H. Kelleher. Died October 29, 1998 after a brief illness. Devoted mother of Michael of Chevy Chase, MD; Kathleen Belinga of Columbia, SC; Colleen Halloran of Dover, MA; Jane Sobolov of Goffstown, NH; Sara Ann Klemmer
 KIEVAL-Adeline. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Sidney Freedman, President       
 KLEINMAN-Pauline. On October 29, 1998 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Much loved mother of Harriet (Lewis) Dickman, Carole Leinwand (David) and Suzanne Cavalier (Mayer). Adored Grandma to Ronie (Robert), Alyse (Richard), Andrea (Jeffrey), Laurie (Phillip), Janet (Andrew),
 SCHOICHET-Goldie. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Mother of Gary and Toby; grandmother of David and Anna, each of whom was her favorite. Services Sunday 9:30 A.M. at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapel'', Queens Boulevard and 76th Road, Forest Hills. In lieu of flowers, contributions t
 SHUSTER-Rita. Loving and devoted wife, ''world's best Mom'', step-mother, sister, aunt, 2nd Mom. Loved and adored by countless friends. Accomplished pianist, supporter of AIDS research and volunteer at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. Always with us. Services Sunday 11AM, Sherman's Funeral Home,
