 CAUMAN -- Rebecca (nee Lowenstein). At age 88, on December 30, 2004. Beloved mother of Anne and Dick, and the one many others wished they'd had, incomparable grandmother to Charlie, Sam and Seth (and Jason, too). There was only one Ducky. We miss you already. A memorial service will be held
 FREEMAN--Lucy. Died December 29, 2004 at age 88. Member of first graduating class of Bennington College and one of the first women reporters for The New York Times. Author of 78 books. She was loved dearly and will be sorely missed. Donations to the Alzheimer's Association at 800-272-3900 o
 BARKIN--Paula Lee (Beneck) of Coral Springs, FL on December 29, 2004. Devoted wife of Joel L. Beloved mother of Daniel J. (Jennifer) and Robert B. (Allison). Loving daughter of Elsie Croes and the late Max Beneck and step-daughter of the late Marvin Croes. Sister of Dr. Neil (Dr. Marie) of 
 BLUM--Florence Hager. Of New York, beloved mother of Lee-Alison and George Sibley, beloved grandmother of Benjamin and Gabriel Brezic, died December 27, in Calcutta, India after a long illness. ''She did it her way.''       
 BUCHBINDER--Julia. On December 30, 2004, in Chicago. Beloved wife of the late Raymond. Cherished mother of Cathy Mandler and her husband Tom, and Debbie Shalom and her husband Sheldon. Loving grandmother of Lisa, Victor, Amy, Dara and Jason. Great-grandmother of Isabella. Dear sister of Eve
 CUTLER--Mary Jane. We deeply mourn the passing of our colleague, advocate and mentor, Mary Jane Venger Cutler, EdD, RN, former Director of Nursing, The Mount Sinai Hospital and Director, The Mount Sinai Hospital School of Nursing, 1962-67. Dr. Cutler led the School and Hospital Nursing Depa
 EDELMAN--Rose (nee Silberstein). At home on December 31, 2004, at the age of 100. She leaves her son Lawrence and daughter-in-law Myra, her grandchildren Robin, Debra and Wayne and great-grandchildren Macie and Georgie. Funeral at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, Queens, today at 11:30.     
 FREEMAN--Lucy. Died December 29, 2004 at age 88. Member of first graduating class of Bennington College and one of the first women reporters for The New York Times. Author of 78 books. She was loved dearly and will be sorely missed. Donations to the Alzheimer's Association at 800-272-3900 o
 GHRISKEY--Flora Roberts, died December 31, 2004. Devoted and loving wife of Williamson Ghriskey, mother of Susie, Bill, Marcia, Timothy and Gigi, grandmother of 16 and great-grandmother of three. She was a beautiful, gentle woman who will be loved forever. Private service. Donations to St. 
 HESSE--Elizabeth Blass. On January 1, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Stanley W. Hesse. Sister of the late Julian Blass. Devoted mother of Barbara (Dr. Theodore M.) Tabachnick and William B. (Jennifer) Hesse. Sister-in-law of the late Norma and Lewis Raabin. Much loved by her grandchildren A
 HUFFORD - ZASLOW -- Hele na. The ALS Association is profoundly saddened by the passing of Helena HuffordZaslow, daughter of ALSA National Trustee Susan Hufford and the late Emmy award-winning actor Michael Zaslow and sister of Marika. Ms. Hufford-Zaslow embraced the fight against Lou Gehrig
 LAMPRECHT--Judith Heltman. Of Delmar, NY. On December 24, 2004, at age 86. Judy used her dramatic talents and experience from Syracuse University to direct community theater throughout her life. Judy is survived by her husband, Joseph Lamprecht Jr.; a sister, Rebecca Heltman Griffiths; her 
 NATHANIEL--Semha Sheena. Born in 1922 in Baghdad, Iraq. Died on December 14, 2004. One of six children who survived into adulthood, she was born following her father, Sassoon Sheena's, miraculous return home after seven years of hiding from his Ottoman captors during WWI. She was thus named
 PATCEVITCH -- Chesbrough Lewis, died on December 28th, 2004, at age 92. She was born in Perrysburg, Ohio, and lived in New York, Southampton, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, where she lived with her late husband, Iva S. Patcevitch, former chairman of Conde Nast Publications. Mrs. Patcevitch was one
 Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80. She had suffered several strokes recently, according to a former staff member, William Howard
 Lucy Freeman, a reporter and an author whose early coverage of psychiatry and mental health for The New York Times led to wider reporting on the subject, died on Wednesday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 88. The cause was complications of Alzheime
 HIRSCH--Irene Ruth Rosenberg Frede. Died suddenly in Sunny Isles Beach, Florida, on December 30, 2004. Adored wife of the late Sidne Frede and the late Richard Goodman Hirsch, beloved mother of Adria, Francine and Candace Frede and stepmother of Nancy Hirsch, and devoted grandmother of Sidn
 JACOBSON -- Rita. Beloved wife of the late David, mother of Paula and Mark, grandmother of Rae, Rosalie and Billy, mother-in-law of Nancy and good friend to many. Passed away January 2, 2005, at age 84, after a valiant struggle with cancer. A proud New Yorker and union member she graduated 
 KOSTMAN--Marilyn (Mindy). It is not possible to articulate the emptiness we feel with the loss of our Min. This tragedy has left a huge canyon in our hearts. We were truly in awe of her love of life, she didn's just live it, she enhaled it. Mindy, our beautiful, bright, vibrant, courageous 
 WILLIAMS--Michelle N. (nee Wallick). 57, of Longwood, FL, passed away Wednesday, December 29. Services were held. She is survived by her husband Steve of Longwood, FL, father Sanders H. Wallick of Boca Raton and Manhasset, brother James and sister-in-law Andrea, nephew Alexander of Short Hi
 BATTIPAGLIA--Marian. On January 2, 2005. The beautiful, loving wife of 54 years to Jack Battipaglia and devoted mother to J.R., Nina and Dina and Precious. The Battipaglia family requests donations be made to Memory Disorder Program, 428 East 72nd Street, Suite 500, NY, NY 10021 and/or to C
 CHISHOLM--Shirley. The City University of New York mourns the passing of our distinguished, barrier-breaking alumna, Shirley Chisholm. The first black woman to serve in Congress and one of the first women to seek the presidential nomination of a major party, she was a proud graduate of Broo
 GOLDSTEIN--Thelma (Terry). At age 82, she is survived by her son Barry Goldstein, daughter Susan Monahan, sisters Gladys Wolff and Judy Bernheim. She was the wife of the late Ralph Goldstein and sister of the late Renee Hoffman. A memorial service will be held on January 9, 2005 at 3PM at P
 HABOUCHA--Leonie Leah. On January 1, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Elie. Cherished mother of Farha-Joyce and Mireille Aziza. Cherished sister of Ruben Shohet, Claire Combriel, Ketty Slakmon and the late Karlo; sister-in-law of Carol Shohet, Fernande Shohet, Isaac Combriel and the late Andr
 JACOBSON -- Rita. Beloved wife of the late David, mother of Paula and Mark, grandmother of Rae, Rosalie and Billy, mother-in-law of Nancy and good friend to many. Passed away January 2, 2005, at age 84, after a valiant struggle with cancer. A proud New Yorker and union member she graduated 
 KARPEL -- Dorothy. ''Dee Dee'' Zwiren. Died Monday morning January 3, following a long illness. A longtime resident of Manhattan, she lived in Great Neck during her last years. She was 89 years old. Dorothy spent her childhood in Brooklyn and performed with her late sister, Ethel, in a sing
 KOSTMAN--Marilyn (Mindy). It is not possible to articulate the emptiness we feel with the loss of our Min. This tragedy has left a huge canyon in our hearts. We were truly in awe of her love of life, she didn's just live it, she enhaled it. Mindy, our beautiful, bright, vibrant, courageous 
 SZLACHTER--Frida. 81 years old. Beloved wife of Morris. Devoted mother of Irwin Shlachter and Celia Kessel, loving grandmother of Adam, Sarit, Tamar and Jordan. Service 11:45am today at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC. SZLACHTER--Frida. Congregation Rodeph Shol
 WILLIAMS -- Michele, nee Wallick. Much loved and adored wife of Steve, died suddenly at age 57 after a brief illness. Longwood, Florida and Long Island, New York. Daughter of Sandy and sister of Jim Wallick. She will be missed by all at MIC Leasing Corp and we extend our condolences to them
 Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80. She died after several recent strokes, according to a former staff member, William Ho
 Leslie Gourse, a prolific author best known for her biographies of a wide range of jazz musicians and singers, died on Dec. 23 at her home in Manhattan. She was 65. The cause was respiratory problems, said her cousin Melvin Zurier. The author or editor of more than 30 books,
 BUSCH--Rebecca (Ippa), 95, on January 4. Loving wife of Benjamin, cherished mother of Susan and Steven, adored grandmother of Amy. She lived her life with compassion, warmth and humor. She will be sorely missed.       
 GIBSON -- Adrienne Laura ''Michael''. Family and friends are invited to her viewing on Thursday, 6-9PM at Kain-Murphy Funeral Services, 15 West End Ave,, Haddonfield, N.J. and to services on Friday, 11AM, at Haddonfield United Methodist Church, 29 Warwick Road, Haddonfield, N.J.       
 SCHULMAN--Ann Weinfeld. Died peacefully at home on January 4, 2005, at the tooyoung age of 73, after a brief battle with lung cancer. The elder daughter of Judge Edward and Lillian Weinfeld, Ann grew up on the Lower East Side, was educated in New York's public schools and then Vassar Colleg
 SZLACHTER -- Frida. The Rodeph Sholom School Board of Directors, Adminstration and Faculty are deeply saddened by the loss of Frida Szlachter, beloved mother of our Headmaster Irwin Shlachter and extend heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Frida Szlachter was a woman of valor, compassio
 WHITEHURST -- Elouise. Isabella Geriatric Center mourns the passing of Elouise Whitehurst on January 3. Her tireless efforts on behalf of issues important to the Northern Manhattan community over many decades are a source of inspiration to those who follow in her path. She will be sorely mi
 CAPOLARELLO--Grace Auditore, passed away on Monday evening, January 3, 2005. at the age of 84. The wake will be held on Friday, January 7, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave. at the corner of E. 81st St. from 4-7:30pm. She'll be laid to rest beside her husband Carmelo, and 
 CRIMI--Patricia Wheelan, of Locust Valley, NY and Vero Beach, FL on January 3, 2005 surrounded by her loving family. Beloved wife of Michael J. Mother of Robert, Gary, Pamela, Michael L. and Carolyn. Grandmother of seven. Daughter of the late Robert B. Wheelan, one of the founders of North 
 DRANOFSKY -- Amelia on January 5. Born April 19, 1912. Devoted wife of the late Sol, trusted and steadfast best friend of the late Helen Glasser, beloved ''Aunt Mollie'' of Suzanne Glasser Mizrahi and the late Peter Glasser. She was a tower of strength, loyalty, wisdom and good common sense
 ERVANS--Solvig Kylsan. On January 5, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Kai. Devoted mother of Bonnie Haydon, Tina Tabah, Lis Ervans Lucas, and John Ervans Porting. Dearest grandmother of Vanessa and Veronika Haydon, Kyle and Emily Tabah. Loving great grandmother of Natalie-Kai and loving siste
 FERRIS--Helen. On January 4, 2005 in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late William O. Ferris. Loving mother of Joan Ferris and Patricia Nunziato. Reposing at James Romanelli-Stephen Funeral Home, 89-01 Rockaway Blvd., Ozone Park, NY, today 2-5 & 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial St. Stanisl
 GUTLEBER -- Leitha (Lee) Mae. On January 3, 2005. Loving wife of John J. Gutleber, devoted mother of Stephanie, Jaclyn and Megan, cherished sister of Charles and William Hanigan. Orphaned at a young age and raised in foster care, Mrs. Gutleber had strong compassion for those with limited op
 KNIGHT -- Adelaide. The Board of Directors, shareholders and Wallack Management extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Adelaide Knight. Mrs. Knight was a longtime resident of 120 East 81st Street and a former Board Member and she will be sorely missed.       
 LEVITAN -- Anne Bermont, died on Tuesday December 21, 2004 at St. Vincent's Hospital following a massive stroke. She is survived by her nephews Norman, Vev and Robert; and her great nephews and nieces Dan, Jon, David, Steve, Karen, Lisa, Peter, Barbara, David, Ruth, Susan and many great-gre
 SCHARF--Blanche, of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL and formerly of Sands Point, NY, passed away on January 5, 2005. Beloved wife of Aaron Scharf for 64 years, loving mother of Michael and Gilbert, and loving mother-in-law to Fiona and Ruth. Beloved grandmother to Andrew, William and Benjamin. Adored
 SILVERSTEIN -- Robert, on January 5, 2005, of Great Neck NY, age 65. Beloved husband of the late Judith Silverstein. Father of David Silverstein and Debbie Silberg and her husband David. Proud grandfather of Jeremy and Rachel. Dear brother of the late Helen Wolin. Business owner/manager for
 SPIELBERG--Irene. Age 96, died on November 25th, 2004. Noted artist and fabric designer. Beloved aunt of Helen Graf, Sylvia Ravitz, the late Herb Grossman and many nieces and nephews. We will all miss her.       
 WHITEHURST -- Elouise. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourns the passing of Elouise Whitehurst, a founding member of our Ambulatory Care Network advisory board. Elouise was a dignified lady whose commitment to the Washington Heights/Inwood communities was boundless and whose tireless efforts
 WIDDOES--Cathalene Crane, mother of Ned and Chevy Chase, Pamela, Catherine and John Cederquist, grandmother of Cydney, Caley, Emily, Lila and Neddy Chase, and of Miles Cederquist, and loving wife of Lawrence Widdoes, died in Manhattan on New Year's Day, surrounded by those she dearly loved.
 WILSON--Ellen Mae (Young), 71, suddenly on January 3, 2005. Daughter of the late Robert and Lenora Matison Young. Beloved sister of Barry (Janet) Young. Aunt of Ross (Melinda) Young and Craig (Rebecca) Young. Great-aunt of Zachary Adam and Dylan Ross Young. Survived by her cousin Robert You
 WYNROTH--Mary (nee Helen Connor), in her 93rd year, loving wife of the late Norman. Survived by devoted sister Annette (and David) Gelber, nephews Richard and James Gelber, and niece Susan Cooper.       
 BLUME--Sharon C. Died on January 6, 2005 in Norwalk, CT of cancer. She was a brilliant, witty and creative person who left an indelible mark on everyone who knew her. Survived by a bother, Cary Blume, two nephews, beloved aunt and uncle, Lillian and Philip Silver, cousins and a constellatio
 FRIEDLANDER--Toby. Cherished daughter of Nat and Faye Friedlander, dear friend to many, who mourn her loss. Toby died on Wednesday evening, January 5, peacefully, with dignity, surrounded with love. Heroically she challenged many things in life--a disciplined neo-natal nurse, a talented des
 GREENHAUFF--Adela. Age 91, passed away peacefully on January 5, in Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Greenhauff, mother of Susan Singer, Roberta Tamar Karet and Jill Brown. Grandmother of Sharon, Sara and Steven Singer, and Alexander and Gabriel Brown, greatgrandmother of Clare
 GROBERG -- Marcia Black. Age 73, beloved mother of Neil, Richard and Eric, and sister of Susan Greenfield, died unexpectedly on January 5, 2005. She was the mother-in-law of Ellen Wolfson, M.D., and Aileen Groberg, and the grandmother of Rebecca, Daniel, Lhara and Delainey Groberg. She was 
 GUTLEBER--Leitha. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Leitha Gutleber. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her husband and to her entire family.       
 HYDE--Alice M., 83, of Brewster, NY, formerly of Manhattan, died peacefully on January 5, 2005. Alice was born in L'Anse, Michigan, January 19, 1921. She graduated from high school in Brooklyn and from Hunter College, Manhattan, class of 1943. She had been a Senior Vice-President of J.P. Mo
 JEWLER -- Barbara Sarah. Beloved wife of Jay Kennedy, daughter of Esther and Sam Jewler, cherished friend of many, managing editor of New York magazine, journalist, conga drummer and glowing soul, died on January 5, 2005. She is also survived by her brother Len, sister-in-law Andrea, nephew
 KALT--Marjorie on January 6, 2005. Beloved wife of J. Gordon. Loving mother of Nancy Milbauer (Alan), Richard (Kathy) and Robert (Beth). Devoted grandmother of Karen Wolfe (Michael), Stephen Milbauer and Jennifer Milbauer. Great grandmother of Jacob and Rachel Wolfe. Sister of Richard May (
 LEITZER--Jane Schaap. Died peacefully in Portland, ME on January 6, 2005 at age 86. She is survived by her loving daughters Joan Leitzer, M.D. of Portland and Ellen Leitzer, Esq. of Albuquerque, NM, her son-in-law Kenneth Spirer, and grandchildren Kathryn, William and Laren Spirer and Sara 
 NEUWIRTH--Bella, 80, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, fashion model, Holocaust survivor, died peacefully on January 4, 2005. She will be dearly missed.       
 SAMUELS--Madeleine R., long devoted to services for the blind. Beloved wife of the late Archie. Beloved mother of Alan. Sister of late the Manuel Robbins. Daughter of the late Meyer Robbins and the late Blanche Robbins. Private services at home. No flowers. Contributions appreciated to Virg
 SCHARF--Blanche. ''Her husband's heart relies on her and he shall lack nothing...She repays his good all the days of her life...Strength and majesty are her garb...She opens her mouth with wisdom and a lesson of kindness is on her tongue...Her children rise and praise her, her husband, and 
 TEITELBAUM -- Beatrice Wohl. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Linda and Marc. Adoring grandmother, devoted daughter and sister. She had a zest for life and beauty that was contagious, a large and charitable heart, and great courage that never wavered. She will be dearly missed. Gra
 VENTUR--Theresa. Passed away on January 4, 2005 after an extended illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Pierre Ventur and loving mother to the late Andrew and daughters Judith, Diane and Elisa. Proud grandmother to Margot, Andrew and Julia. Her loving presence will be greatly missed. Visita
 Sarah Jewler, the managing editor of New York magazine, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. She was 56. The cause was a rare blood disorder she had suffered with for many years, said her husband, Jay Kennedy. Ms. Jewler was a steady presence at the magazine even as it switched e
 AXELRAD--Ruth T. Died January 7, 2005. She was 92 years old. Mother of Marjorie Emmer and Jordan. Chapel Services Sunday, 11 AM at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 914-632-0324.       
 BLUME--Sharon C. One of the miracles of Sharon is that she made those she cared about feel just as gifted, imaginative and intelligent as she was. Impossible! She continues to inspire. Still, December 25th will never be the same--nor will any other day of the year. Amy       
 DREZNICK -- Rachelle. On January 6, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Henry Dreznick. Beloved mother of Dr. Jeffrey Dreznick, Dr. Elliott Dreznick and Lisa Dreznick Waller, Esq. Beloved motherin-law of Carol Fisher Dreznick, Esq. and Dr. Scott Waller. Beloved bubbe of Randa, Courtney, Stephen 
 GROBERG--Marcia. A great mom to her devoted sons Neil, Richard and Eric, a dear sister and a loving aunt. A special, beautiful, courageous, bright and witty person. You will be sadly missed. Sue and George Greenfield, Gary and Lori, Ellen and Jonathan       
 HILL--Kimberly E., 40, of Manhattan, New York, passed away on Wednesday, December 22, 2004. Beloved daughter of David & Nancy Hill of Greensboro, NC; sister and sister-in-law of Eric and Kara Hill, Ashland, MA; granddaughter of Dorothy Hill of Rich Hill, MO and devoted aunt to Miss Kayleigh
 KNIGHT -- Adelaide Clarke. Died on January 3, 2005 at the age of 88. Survived by her son, George, grandchildren Glen, Jim, great-grandchildren Adelaide, Charlie and sister Elizabeth Dillon. She graduated from the Chapin School. Her hobbies included tennis, golf, bowling and ballroom dancing
 LEVINE--Betty, in her 96th year, died on January 7, 2005. Beloved aunt of Suzanne, James, Barry, Leonard and Jeffrey. Also survived by her sister-in-law Edith and numerous grand-nieces, grandnephews and cousins. Graveside services Sunday, 1PM, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York.
 PIKE--Anna. February 12, 1913--January 7, 2004. Predeceased by husband Bernard. Mother of Francine & Rayner (Nancy). Grandmother of Nina, Neil, Leah, Lara, Sarah, Rebecca and Max. Greatgrandmother of Natasia, Tatiana, and Julian. She will remain a part of us forever.       
 RONEN--Shoshana. Our beloved mother, grandmother and aunt, Daughter of Ismar and Regi Elbogen, passed away peacefully on January 6, 2005 in Kfar Shmaryahu, Israel. Her family Amir, Rachel, Yael, Nurit, Assaf Ronen, Israel Debbie Elbin, New York       
 AXELRAD--Ruth T. Died January 7, 2005. She was 92 years old. Mother of Marjorie Emmer and Jordan. Chapel Services Sunday, 11 AM at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 914-632-0324.       
 BUCKNER--Maurine C. 77, beloved wife of Seymour K. Buckner, mother of Leslie, Janice, Harold, Mindy and Toni. Survived and loved by 12 grandchildren, her sons-inlaw and family. Memorial service Sunday, January 9, 1 PM, at Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd, Manhasset.       
 CAPOLARELLO--Grace Auditore (December 11, 1920January 3, 2005). Mom would often end a phone conversation with us with the words ''Do everything right.'' How appropriate since that is how she tried to live her life by doing the right thing, always. Mom was the most optimistic person we knew.
 CAUMAN--Rebecca Lowenstein. The Columbia University School of Social Work and its Alumni Association are deeply saddened at the death of Rebecca Cauman, Class of 1941. A dedicated social worker and devoted alumna, she was a past officer of the Association and a member of its Hall of Fame. A
 DAOUST--Marie, (aka Maree Dow stage name), 89, died of heart failure January 1, 2005, in Toledo, OH. She was a cherished sister of Lucien of Dearborn Heights, MI, Joseph of Scottsdale, AZ and the late Eugene Daoust, and aunt to many nieces and nephews. She was an actress on the New York sta
 HERBST--Eugenia Victoria (nee Levin). On January 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Frank F. Herbst. Loving mother of Edward and Peter and mother-in-law of Beth Skinner and Ann Colin Herbst. Dear sister of Mimi and Rhoda. Adoring grandmother of Nico, Gabrielle, William and Nicholas. As an ad
 JEWLER--Barbara Sarah. Beloved wife of Jay Kennedy, daughter of Esther and Sam Jewler, cherished friend of many, managing editor of New York magazine, journalist, conga drummer and glowing soul, died on January 5, 2005. She is also survived by her brother Len, sister-in-law Andrea, nephew S
 KNIGHT -- Adelaide Clarke. Died on January 3, 2005 at the age of 88. Survived by her son, George, grandchildren Glen, Jim, great-grandchildren Adelaide, Charlie and sister Elizabeth Dillon. She graduated from the Chapin School. Her hobbies included tennis, golf, bowling and ballroom dancing
 LEITZER--Jane Schaap. Died peacefully in Portland, ME on January 6, 2005 at age 86. She is survived by her loving daughters Joan Leitzer, M.D. of Portland and Ellen Leitzer, Esq. of Albuquerque, NM, her son-in-law Kenneth Spirer, and grandchildren Kathryn, William and Laren Spirer and Sara 
 PIKE--Anna. February 12, 1913--January 7, 2004. Predeceased by husband Bernard. Mother of Francine & Rayner (Nancy). Grandmother of Nina, Neil, Leah, Lara, Sarah, Rebecca and Max. Greatgrandmother of Natasia, Tatiana, and Julian. She will remain a part of us forever.       
 RONEN--Shoshana. Our beloved mother, grandmother and aunt, Daughter of Ismar and Regi Elbogen, passed away peacefully on January 6, 2005 in Kfar Shmaryahu, Israel. Her family Amir, Rachel, Yael, Nurit, Assaf Ronen, Israel Debbie Elbin, New York       
 ROSE--Josephine Grohe. Of Briarcliff Manor, NY, died on January 4, 2005, in Wellesley, MA, at age 94. She was born in The Bronx, NY, on December 6, 1910, the daughter of Josephine and Albert Grohe, and sister of Walter Grohe. She was predeceased by her husband of 50 years, William A. Rose. 
 SCHARF--Blanche. Yeshiva University expresses sorrow on the passing of Blanche Scharf, beloved mother of our esteemed friends and Benefactors, Michael (and Fiona) Scharf. An admired and respected woman of valor, Blanche was devoted to her family and community. We extend our heartfelt condol
 SCHOENFELD--Shirley ''Sissy''. Passed away in New York City at age 85 due to complications from pneumonia. She lived a rich and full life on both the East and West coasts. She grew up in Los Angeles and moved to New York where she married her first husband, Saul Kaplan, a prominent lawyer a
 SILVERMAN -- Roberta (Bobbe) Neuhoff. Beloved mother of Richard, Barry, Ken, and the late Jeffrey, grandmother of 16, great grandmother of 18, sister and friend. Her passing, in Monrovia, CA, on December 28, was as gentle, elegant, and blessed as was Roberta. ''Good night. We love you. See 
 TEITELBAUM -- Beatrice Wohl. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Linda and Marc. Adoring grandmother, devoted daughter and sister. She had a zest for life and beauty that was contagious, a large and charitable heart, and great courage that never wavered. She will be dearly missed. Gra
 Chesbrough Lewis Patcevitch, a former New York social figure and fund-raiser for charitable causes, died on Dec. 28 in Miami. She was 92 and she lived in West Palm Beach, Fla. Her death was announced by her family. Mrs. Patcevitch, who married four times, was the widow of Iv
 Dr. Esther Thelen, a psychologist whose research into the way babies develop early motor and mental skills exerted a powerful influence in the field, died on Dec. 29 at a hospital in Bloomington, Ind. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Jennifer Thelen of Richmond, 
 BUCKNER--Maurine C. 77, beloved wife of Seymour K. Buckner, mother of Leslie, Janice, Harold, Mindy and Toni. Survived and loved by 12 grandchildren, her sons-inlaw and family. Memorial service Sunday, January 9, 1 PM, at Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd, Manhasset.       
 COHEN--Evelyn Z. In loving memory. Devoted wife of 71 years of David. Dear mother of Deanna and Harriet. Loving sister of Dollie. Beloved grandmother of Jonathan, Jesse and Sasha. Loving great-grandmother of Emir and Alma. She taught many generations of young children. Services held today a
 HERBST--Eugenia Victoria (nee Levin). On January 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Frank F. Herbst. Loving mother of Edward and Peter and mother-in-law of Beth Skinner and Ann Colin Herbst. Dear sister of Mimi and Rhoda. Adoring grandmother of Nico, Gabrielle, William and Nicholas. As an ad
 LEMBO--Anna. January 8, 2005. Beloved mother and grandmother. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday, January 10th, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave. at 84 St., Tuesday, 11 AM. G009DIGNITY LEMBO--Anna ''Nana
 McCARRON--Mary Elizabeth (nee McGuinness) on January 8, 2005, of Island Park, New York. Daughter of the late Neil and Josephine. Devoted wife of the late Warren. Beloved mother of Dan, Neil and Patricia Conaty. Doting Nana to Meghan, the late Kevin, Kacey, Killeen, Ben and Elanor Conaty. Ad
 SPIELMANN--Walli. On January 6, 2005, Walli Spielmann, 88, beloved mother succumbed to complications of congestive heart failure and Alzheimer's disease. A survivor of Auschwitz, a fighter to the end with the same indomitable spirit that helped her survive the Holocaust, she will be sorely 
 BLAINE--Josephine. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Robert Blaine. An unforgettable, honest, generous, strong and loving presence for her many friends, nieces and nephews. Long time resident of the Upper West Side, active in politics, she worked for the preservation of landmarks and historical 
 EDELSTEIN -- Victoria, passed away at home on January 9, 2005 at age 81. Born on May 28th, 1923 to Sylvia and Murray Bloom in Brooklyn, NY. She was a graduate of Long Island University and is survived by Murray, a loving and devoted husband of 61 years, their three sons, Lee (Janet), Mitche
 ENGLE--Lenore Hailparn. An intellectually vibrant mother, wife and educator, she fought to create better Public Schools in NYC. Her children, Laurie, John & Jeremy, are all educators. Her spirit and humor live on in her 5 yearold granddaughter Nellie Otter. Services on Tuesday, January 11 a
 KOURTIDES--Asimenia. On January 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late James Kourtides and loving mother of Ellen Kourtides - Vassilakis and Reno Kourtides. Dearest mother-in-law of Dianne Kourtides and Hon. Theodore Vassilakis. Grandmother of Christine Rachler and Nico Kourtides. Born in Consta
 LEVY--Ruth. 86, passed away on January 9, 2005. Board Member of Astoria Center of Israel, NORC and West Queens Independent Democratic Club. Chapter President of Na'amat. Her loving spirit and energy will be missed profoundly.       
 LINTON--Laurie Ann. On January 10, 2005, in New York City, at the age of 46, after a long illness. Laurie is survived by her brother Robert, her longtime companion, Murphy, and a host of beloved friends. Laurie was a native--and devoted--New Yorker. A graduate of Hunter College High School,
 TEITELBAUM -- Beatrice. The officers and directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the untimely passing of Beatrice Teitelbaum, beloved past member of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center Board, the President of the Long Island League and a devoted friend and ardent sup
 WALLIN--Ada Goode. Died January 10, 2005 in Concord, NH. She married John C. Wallin in 1946. They resided in Yonkers, Pleasantville, NY and Houston, TX. She is survived by her children Carole Anne and John Jr., and four grandsons. Funeral Services will be held in the Chapel of Kensico Cemet
 COOK--Katharine Skinner. A long time Greenwich resident, died on January 9th, 2005. She was born in Milton, MA on May 22, 1920. She was the daughter of the late William S. Warner and Edith Bouve Warner. She is survived by her husband Daniel C. Cook and their offspring, Daniel C. Cook, Jr. o
 EDELSTEIN -- Victoria, passed away at home on January 9, 2005 at age 81. Born on May 28th, 1923 to Sylvia and Murray Bloom in Brooklyn, NY. She was a graduate of Long Island University and is survived by Murray, a loving and devoted husband of 61 years, their three sons, Lee (Janet), Mitche
 KNIGHT -- Adelaide Clarke. Died January 3, 2005 at the age of 88. Survived by her son, George, four grandchildren, Glen, Jim, Sara, Kathryn, great grandchildren Adelaide, Charlie, and sister Elizabeth Dillon. She graduated from Chapin School. Her hobbies included tennis, golf, bowling and b
 LINTON--Laurie Ann. On January 10, 2005, in New York City, at the age of 46, after a long illness. Laurie is survived by her brother Robert, her longtime companion, Murphy, and a host of beloved friends. Laurie was a native--and devoted--New Yorker. A graduate of Hunter College High School,
 MANSFIELD -- Ruth, 87, leaves behind many who loved and cherished her. She was predeceased in death by the love of her life, Jack Falion and leaves his family, Jane Falion, Larry Savoie and children, Katie and John Savoie to mourn her death, as well as her special friends, Betty Rhodes and 
 RABINOWITZ--Joanne Grant. Award-winning writer, journalist, filmmaker, died on January 9, 2005. Born in Utica, NY, and resident of NYC and Easthampton, with a spell in London. She is survived by her children, Mark and Abby, and her husband Victor. A memorial service will be held at a later 
 ROSENSTEIN--Beatrice (nee Altshuler). January 10, 2005 of Haverford, PA, formerly of Forest Hills, NY. Wife of the late Jack. Mother of Ilene Rosenstein (Brad Meier). Grandmother of Matthew and Jenny. Active volunteer with Menorah Home, Hadassah, UJA and National Council of Jewish Women. Re
 STEINBERG--Mollie. Wife of the late Charles (71 years). Beloved by her adoring and blessed family Helene, Jules, Alan, Ted, Susan, Scott, Vicki, Dan and Alexandra.       
 BENOWITZ--Doris, elegant and loving mother of Robert and Richard; grandmother of Michael, Jennifer and Douglas; and mother in-law of Diane and Shirley. Services are today 11:30AM, Riverside Memorial Chapel. She will be dearly missed.       
 FEINBERG--Belle. On January 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Marty and Phyllis Feinberg. Cherished grandmother of Jack and Kalli. She was an inspiration, gracious and loving to all who knew her. She will always be missed. Services Friday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riversi
 GITTMAN--Rebecca (Rika). Devoted wife of the late Kallman. Beloved mother of Stella Cole and Dr. Elizabeth Gittman. Loving grandmother of Debbi, Leni, Alan, Stephen, Leslie and Sherry. Cherished great-grandmother of 13. She was the greatest! Services are today 1 P.M. at ''Gutterman's'', 800
 LANDSMAN--Hilva B. On January 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Al Landsman. Loving mother of Lisa Landsman and Valerie Oltarsh. Loving aunt of Karen G. Benson. Devoted grandmother of Mark, Jennifer, Nicholas and Alexander and great-grandmother of Morgan and Sydney. She will be deeply miss
 LEMISH--John. On January 12, 2005 of Sag Harbor, N.Y., formerly of Sunnyside, N.Y. Retired Con Edison employee, retired Madison Square Garden employee. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Shortell). Loving father of Maryann Geaney and her husband Jeremiah, Jr. Dear brother of Jewelana, Harold, Kath
 ROSEN--Marion (Garfield) of Winchester. Entered into rest January 11. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Dr. Richard Rosen and Marguerite Piret of Belmont and Nancy and Jim Howren of Alexandria, VA. Sister of the late Lillian Hurwitz and Harold Garfield. Cherished grandmothe
 SCHULTZ--Jane (Stern), 82, formerly of New York City. Died January 8, 2005 in Vermont. Survivors include her husband Robert S. Schultz III, three children John Schultz, Barbara Schultz King and Edna Schultz Ben Said.       
 BLANCATO--Nancy Benedict, on January 12, in Rye, NY. Beloved wife of Dr. Louis S. Blancato. wonderful mother to Louis Jr., Robert, John and Amy, and grandmother to Celia and Carly. She was a friend to many. She enjoyed two careers, nursing and wife, mother and grandmother. She was a woman o
 FRANKS--Estelle. On January 11 in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Marcus Franks, loving daughter of the late Abraham and Ruth Kutner, dear sister of the late Seymour Kutner and the late Blanche Kutner, dear cousin of Florence Kaufman, adoring ''aunt'' to several generations of cous
 GEORGE--Regina. A loving daughter and sister, Regina George passed away on January 9, 2005. She is survived by her parents, Thomas and Aleyamma, her older sister Christina, and brother-in-law Jaison. In addition, she leaves behind many aunts, uncles, cousins and countless friends. She gradu
 LANDSMAN -- Hilva. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Film Society of Lincoln Center deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Hilva Landsman joined our Board in 1980 and her generosity and enthusiasm for our work has been of vital importance to the growth of our organiza
 MESSINGER -- Celia. We mourn the loss of Celia on January 11, 2005. Beloved mother of Harriet. Adored by loving relatives and friends. She was a highly philanthropic woman particularly devoted to Israel, Hadassah and Zion redeemed. She will be missed by all who knew her. Jason, Jamie and Ja
 SCHULZ--Minna H. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 VARELJAN--Lydia K. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Lydia K. Vareljan, whose passionate commitment as director of our Russian Division profoundly impacted the lives of hundreds of thousands of Jewish emigres fr
 YANTHIS - LUCAS -- Audrey. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Girl Scout Council of Greater New York note with deep sorrow Audrey's passing and offers sincere condolences to her family. Audrey was a longstanding and dedicated Director and all who knew her took pleasure in working by he
 Joanne Grant, an activist who documented the grassroots efforts behind the civil rights movement through her journalism, filmmaking and commentary, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Midtown Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, her son, Mark Rabinow
 BLOCH--Dorothy, M.A. On January 13, on her 93rd birthday. A lifelong New Yorker, Ms. Bloch was an educator and certified psychologist who practiced on the Upper West Side as a child psychoanalyst for nearly 40 years, as well as spending many wonderful summers in her home on Martha's Vineyar
 ERHARDT--Katherine A. of Port Washington, NY died on January 11, 2005 at age 82. She was a longtime resident of Roslyn, where she and her late husband, William raised their beloved children, Christine Brill of Upper Brookville, Arlene Oliver of Huntington and William A. Erhardt of New York.
 FRANKS--Estelle. On January 11 in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Marcus Franks, loving daughter of the late Abraham and Ruth Kutner, dear sister of the late Seymour Kutner and the late Blanche Kutner, dear cousin of Florence Kaufman, adoring ''aunt'' to several generations of cous
 HAIGHT--Marjorie (nee de Forest) ''Woody.'' 69, passed away January 13. Daughter of Gideon K. de Forest, M.D. and Isabel Shaw de Forest. Graduated from Bennett Junior College, she became a research technician at St. Luke's Hospital in New York. Moved to South Blue Hill in 1991, where they e
 HUTZLER--Lilo. January 14, after an extended illness which she endured with dignity and courage. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Ronald and Michelle. Proud mother-in-law of Jay Monitz. Adored grandmother of Gary and Trevor Monitz. She will be remembered by her many friends for her 
 PEYRELONGUE--Lucile. Peter Martins, the Board of Directors, dancers and staff of New York City Ballet mourn the loss of Lucile Peyrelongue. Lucile was an etoile in our sky, and the light she brought into the life of the Company will shine always. A citizen of the world, Lucile made her home
 SPALLONE--Winifred (nee Sticco). Of North Bergen, on Thursday, January 13, 2005. She is the last of a family of 12, predeceased by 11 brothers and sisters. Survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Funeral on Tuesday at 9 AM, from the Leber Funeral Home, 2000 Kennedy Blvd., Union City; thenc
 ZELNER--Burton L. On January 13 at 84. After a courageous struggle with Parkinson's Disease. Beloved Husband of 56 years to Shirley. Loving Father to Barbara, Carole and her husband Seth Margolis, and Michael. Adoring grandfather to Jack and Margie. Dear brother of Audrey. World War II vete
 Elizabeth Janeway, who began her career as a best-selling novelist in the 1940's and later distinguished herself as a critic, a lecturer and an early advocate of the women's movement, died yesterday at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 91. Her death was reported by her son Mich
 BLOOM--Frances R. Died after a long illness on January 15, 2005. She was the most beloved wife of Barry M. Bloom, most devoted daughter of the late Haven R. Bloom, dear sister of Jessica Roller and most cherished friend of Steven, Kristiina, Alexandra and Juliana Harwin. She received her BA
 EISENHARDT -- Mildred F. May 28, 1935-January 6, 2005. Millie was a wife, mother and grandmother to Charles, Charles and Melissa, and her twin joys, Hunter and Jaden. She was an artist, composer, pianist and a member of Sigma Alpha Iota. A memorial service will be held January 23, 2005, 3-7
 FEIGENOFF--Phyllis D. Died on January 14 in Scottsdale. Graduate of Brooklyn College. Pioneering woman CPA. Mourned by Frederick, her husband of 57 years, her children, grandchildren, and family.       
 FIRKUSNY--Tatiana. On January 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Rudolf, loving mother of Veronique and Igor, adored grandmother of Silvia, Christopher and Alexa. Donations in her honor may be made to Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center.       
 FRANCK--Frances. On January 14, 2005. Dancer, Reader, Survivor. Beloved and devoted wife of Peter Franck, whom she married on the same date 16 years ago. Memorial service Wednesday, January 19, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be 
 GARCY -- Nellie (Nelson). Passed away Wednesday, January 12th, 2005 peacefully at home in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late William Garcy. Adoring mother of the late Deanne Garcy. Treasured aunt and great-aunt to Lance and Marilyn Garcy, Allison and Erika Garcy, Phillip and Barbara Ph
 HAMBURGER -- Helen Strauss. Age 97, of Heritage Village, Southbury, CT, died peacefully at her home on January 8, 2005. She was the widow of Joseph L. Hamburger, among her survivors are her daughter, Jane H. Salomon, of Southbury, CT, four grandchildren, and four great grandchildren. At her
 HINRICHSEN -- Evelyn. A friend and client. As head of C.F. Peters, classical music publisher, she continued the commitment to contemporary music of her husband Walter, who died in 1969. She was a kind and generous friend and inspiration to composers, musicians and staff. Our condolences to 
 MELNIKER--Joan Frances. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home on January 8. Born Joan Frances Barisas November 18, 1917, in Stowe, PA, to Frank and Sonia Barisas, she was raised in Chicago. The family later changed its name to Boris. A lyric soprano, she trained at the Chicago Musical Schoo
 MESSITE - TELSEY -- Jacque line. Jackie was a savvy and spirited physician who contributed greatly to improving public health. The Board and staff of the Medical and Health Research Association of New York City will miss her both as a volunteer and as an inspiration. Deborah M. Sale, Chair 
 MIKULSKY--Marilyn. Died peacefully at home on January 14. Predeceased by her great love Sonny. She will be sadly missed by John Halbreich and Amali Kelly, and their children Hannah, Gillian, Liam and Derek; Kathy Halbreich and John Kohring and their son Henry; and Joyce Weil, staunch friend
 NETHERCOTT--Audre. Costume and uniform designer known as Audre, on December 27, 2004, after a long illness. She was 84 years old and lived in New York City. She began her successful career in the 40's designing costumes for Billy Rose's Diamond Horseshoe and the Latin Quarter. In the 50's s
 PECKOLICK--Belle. August 5, 1917--January 7, 2005. Wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother, has taken flight to find her dreams. Alan Peckolick & Jessica Weber Gail Rae Paul & Judy Peck       
 SCHIETROMA -- Brenda M. (nee Castellanos). Of Pelham Manor, NY, passed away Friday, January 14, 2005, in the Calvary Hospital. She was 57 years old. Brenda was the devoted wife of Paul H. Loving mother of Nae and Christina. Adored daughter of Elida and the late Rafael and sister of Rafael. 
 SMITH--Patricia Fabry. Died January 14 at age 82 after a long, valiant fight to rise above her pain. We will miss our dear, unforgettable friend. Services Sunday, 3 PM at Yardley & Pino Funeral Home, 94 Pantigo Rd., East Hampton, NY.       
 STANTON--Sherry F., M.D., on December 29, 2004 at home in Sewell, NJ, age 54. Dr. Stanton was a Dermatologist practicing in Staten Island, NY. Survived by her mother, Irene Stanton, three sisters, Holly Stanton, Melinda Stanton and Sally Devires. Sherry is also survived by Special Friend De
 THOMAS--Melba Lichtblau. On December 31. Playwright, poet, humanitarian. Her heart embraced the world. Her passing will leave a void in all our lives. A commemoration gathering is planned for January 29 at 2 pm, in her home at 205 W. 86 St, Apt. #       
 VAN BERGH--Sylvie. January 12, 2005. Beloved wife of Scott. Loving daughter of Monique Couttenier. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her and the animals which she loved so dearly. Service Monday, January 17th, 1:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave,. at 81st St. Contribution
 WEISS -- Margot Eckhouse. Died January 14, 2005, at age 68, in White Plains. Adoring and patient wife of Richard for 47 years. Mother to Laurie, Matthew and Kathy; grandmother extrordinaire to seven cherished grandchildren: Jessie, Steven, Sarah, Rafi, Talia, Emma and Jamie. She loved nothi
 WELBOURN--Dotha Seaverns. Age 85, passed away Monday, January 10, 2005 at her home in Rolling Hills, CA. Born in Boston in 1919, Dotha was the daughter of Mary and Charles Seaverns. After attending Spence School for Girls in NYC and graduating from Bennington College, VT, Dotha moved to Ore
 ZELNER--Burton L. On January 13 at 84. After a courageous struggle with Parkinson's Disease. Beloved Husband of 56 years to Shirley. Loving Father to Barbara, Carole and her husband Seth Margolis, and Michael. Adoring grandfather to Jack and Maggie. Dear brother of Audrey. World War II vete
 The Spanish soprano Victoria de los Angeles, whose sweet-toned lyric voice and beguiling expressivity earned her a devoted following during a career of more than four decades, died overnight Friday in a hospital in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Liceu Opera there said. Ms. de los Angeles, w
 Marjorie Williams, a Washington Post columnist and contributing editor for Vanity Fair who was known for sharp observations on the political elite, died yesterday at her home in Washington. She was 47. The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Timothy Noah. Ms. Williams 
 BLOOM--Frances R. Died after a long illness on January 15, 2005. She was the most beloved wife of Barry M. Bloom, most devoted mother of the late Haven R. Bloom, dear sister of Jessica Roller and most cherished friend of Steven, Kristiina, Alexandra and Juliana Harwin. She received her BA D
 FRANCK--Frances. On January 14, 2005. Dancer, Reader, Survivor. Beloved and devoted wife of Peter Franck, whom she married on the same date 16 years ago. Memorial service Wednesday, January 19, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be 
 HINRICHSEN--Evelyn Merrell. Age 94, beloved widow of Walter, devoted mother of Martha and Henry, loving grandmother of Christian, passed away peacefully at her home on January 14, 2005. A lifelong champion of music, composers, and musicians, she dedicated her life to the international music
 KURZ--Lillian M. Born January 7, 1917. Died after a short illness in Palm Beach, FL on January 13, 2005. Miss Kurz was a lifelong employee of the NY Telephone Company. Miss Kurz was the sister of Sophia Casey, Loretto Langan, Henry Kurz, and Mary Therese Blend. She is survived by her brothe
 MESSITE--Jacqueline. The New York Academy of Medicine records with sorrow the death of Dr. Jacqueline Messite, longtime Secretary of its Committee on Public Health. A careful, committed and visionary public health professional, she worked with intelligence and industry to translate the deli
 MIKULSKY--Marilyn. Died peacefully at home on January 14. Predeceased by her great love Sonny. She will be sadly missed by John Halbreich and Amali Kelly, and their children Hannah, Gillian, Liam and Derek; Kathy Halbreich and John Kohring and their son Henry; and Joyce Weil, staunch friend
 PARADISE--Charlotte (nee Unger). 99, of Winchester, MA, and formerly of Cincinnati, OH, on January 16, 2005. Wife of the late James C. Paradise, she is survived by her son Robert Paradise of Bedford, MA; her daughter Ellen Paradise Fisher of Cambridge, MA; her brother Mort Unger of Oakbrook
 SCHIETROMA -- Brenda M. (nee Castellanos). Of Pelham Manor, NY, passed away Friday, January 14, 2005, in the Calvary Hospital. She was 57 years old. Brenda was the devoted wife of Paul H. Loving mother of Nae and Christina. Adored daughter of Elida and the late Rafael and sister of Rafael. 
 TELSEY -- Dr. Jacqueline Messite. Died January 14, 2005, at age 79. An innovator in public health. She received an M.D. from Long Island College of Medicine in 1949. A Diplomate of the American Board of Preventative Medicine, she received numerous awards, including the Exceptional Service A
 WINAWER--Abigail T. We regret to inform you of the passing of Abigail T. Winawer known to her family, many friends, and colleagues as Gail. Gail, surrounded by her family, died of liver failure at her home on Saturday, January 15, 2005. Gail served her clients courageously during a long and
 Suzie Frankfurt, an interior decorator who popularized 18th- and 19th-century Russian furniture among corporate raiders of the 1970's and 1980's and was an early collaborator of Andy Warhol, died on Jan. 7 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 73. She h
 ALIG--Katharine Picot de Vauloge, of Far Hills, NJ, died peacefully at home on January 16, 2005. Mrs. Alig was born February 13, 1922 in Paris, France. She was the eldest daughter of the late Vicomte and Vicomtesse Robert Picot de Vauloge. She was the cherished mother of Anita Saman, belove
 ANGUS--Elena Rionda Doty, 93, of 2 Farmington Heights, Charlottesville, VA, died at her residence following a lengthy illness. She was born January 2, 1912 on the family sugar plantation in Tuniucu, Cuba. She was the daughter of Elena Hernandez Rodriguez y de la Toriente and Oliver Keys Dot
 BLOOM--Frances R. Died after a long illness on January 15, 2005. She was the most beloved wife of Barry M. Bloom, most devoted mother of the late Haven R. Bloom, dear sister of Jessica Roller and most cherished friend of Steven, Kristiina, Alexandra and Juliana Harwin. She received her BA D
 de los ANGELES--Victoria. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of a cherished artist, soprano Victoria de los Angeles, who brought patrician style, consummate musicianship and irresistible charm to everything she sang. Between 1951 and 1961 Met audiences were privileged to hear her in 13
 HOROWITZ--Edith, 83 years old, of Lake Worth, FL. Wife of the late David, mother of Richard, Marjorie Schultz and Harold. Grandmother of Jenny, Joshua, Andrew, Emily, Azra and Renata. She will be missed by all for her love, wisdom, compassion and, most of all, for her dedication to her fami
 KRAMER--Judy. Of Scarsdale, NY, on January 13, 2005. Born February 11, 1946 to Samuel and Pearl (Price) Clayman of Swampscott, MA. Taught at White Plains High School, where she was Head Rep of the Teachers Association. Survived by husband Ken, children Michael and Caren, sister Amy Feingold
 KRISSEL--Janet. To the four blessed generations of the Krissel family who shared her lifetime of love and serenity, the Canno family shares your loss deeply. To Robert, who is like a brother to me-your angel now sleeps peacefully. Pierce joins me in sadness. With my love and remembrance of 
 KURZ--Lillian M. Born January 7, 1917. Died after a short illness in Palm Beach, FL on January 13, 2005. Miss Kurz was a lifelong employee of the New York Telephone Company. Miss Kurz was the sister of Sophia Casey, Loretto Langan, Henry Kurz, and Mary Therese Blend. She is survived by her 
 NORWOOD--Angela W. On January 13, 2005. She is survived by her sister Gloria W. Milliken and brother Mark M. Walker. Cherished mother of Nanette Angela Norwood, and devoted stepmother of Karen, Chris, Mark and John Jr. Loving aunt of Arthur, Ashly, Sandra, Patricia, Colin, Anne, Sherron, Mi
 RATZKER--Paula. We mourn the loss of this exceptional matriarch. A woman of strong personality and strong will, she used these qualities to help herself and her family overcome the tragedies and suffering of the Holocaust. A loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother who loyally suppo
 SCHLICHTER--Helen, age 85, died on January 12. She was married to the late Jerry Schlichter, a long-time teacher and assistant principal in the New York City school system. She is survived by her loving family: son, Arnold; daughter, Joanne: grandson, Levon; sister, Selma: brotherin-law, Mi
 SCHUTZER--Renee. Beloved mother of Steven and Kathy. Loving sister of Marion Barber, David Isaacs and the late Jean Elbaum. Also survived by many loving nephews and nieces. She was a past president of the League of Women Voters of Nassau County. Services Thursday 12:30 PM at Riverside-Nassa
 VLAMIS--Anne, 91. Died at home after a long illness. Born in Czechoslovakia in 1913 to Joseph and Suzanna Dalechek, she emigrated to the U.S. aboard U.S.S. George Washington via Ellis Island in 1925, reuniting with her father who preceded her to find the family a new home away from the rava
 WARRICK--Ruth. Died Saturday, January 15th, in her Manhattan home of complications from pneumonia. She was 88. She made her film debut in the Classic Citizen Kane and received a Lifetime Achievement Emmy Award in May 2004 for her work on All My Children. In 1983 she was awarded the first Na
 WINAWER--Abigail T. We regret to inform you of the passing of Abigail T. Winawer known to her family, many friends, and colleagues as Gail. Gail, surrounded by her family, died of liver failure at her home on Saturday, January 15, 2005. Gail served her clients courageously during a long and
 WOODS--Mary (Morrow) on January 13, 2005. She is predeceased by her first husband Edwin F. Britten III, 1957 and her second husband W. Harcourt Woods, 1998; Mother of David M. Britten of Tewksbury Twp, NJ, Margaret B. Sorge of Pittstown, NJ, Peter M. Britten of Hunterdon Co, NJ; Stepmother 
 Ruth Warrick, who made her movie debut with Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and ended her career with the long-running role of Phoebe Tyler Wallingford on the television soap opera ''All My Children,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The cause was complicatio
 Virginia Mayo, who began her film career as a chorus girl and comic foil and then proved herself an accomplished actress, died yesterday at a nursing home in Thousand Oaks, Calif., the Los Angeles suburb where she had lived for many years. She was 84. Her friend Mary Walsh told The 
 Nell Rankin, an American mezzo-soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 25 years and was highly regarded for her warm-toned portrayals of Amneris in Verdi's ''Aida'' and in the title role in Bizet's ''Carmen,'' died last Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. She was 81, and 
 ANGUS--Elena Rionda Doty, 93, of 2 Farmington Heights, Charlottesville, VA, died at her residence following a lengthy illness. She was born January 2, 1912 on the family sugar plantation in Tuniucu, Cuba. She was the daughter of Elena Hernandez Rodriguez y de la Toriente and Oliver Keys Dot
 BLOOM--Frances Roller. The Chapin School community is deeply saddened by the death of Frances Roller Bloom, Chapin's Director of Studies and mother of the late Haven Bloom, Class of 2002. A dedicated and distinguished faculty member since 1973, she became Head of the History Department, a m
 HEYMAN--Doris Oelbaum. Age 88, on January 18th, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Virginia Waldman and John Heyman. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Pamela. Loving sister of the late Adele Weill and the late Robert Oelbaum. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and 
 HOYNINGEN-HUENE-Nancy Oakes V, of Nassau, Bahamas, died peacefully in London on January 16, 2005, attended by her daughter Patricia Oakes Leigh-Wood and her son Alexander V. Hoynengen-Huene. Funeral to be held in Nassau. London memorial service to be announced.       
 KRAMER--Judith. The members of SSTT mourn the death of Judy Kramer, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Ken, and to their children, Michael and Caren. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Victor Hershaft, President       
 KRISSEL--Janet Carter. Jan passed away peacefullly on January 15, 2005 after an eight month battle with lung cancer. Jan was married to Bob Krissel for over 47 years and they enjoyed a wonderful life divided between New York, Lakeville, CT, Santa Fe, NM and Vail, CO. She was very active in 
 MOORE -- Dorothea (nee O'Farrell) Esq. of Larchmont, NY on January 17, 2005 at age 93. Wife of the late Thomas F. Moore Jr. Esq. Mother of Thomas P. (wife Maura) Moore, Valerie (husband Jack) O'Keeffe, Ursula Moore, and Elaine Moore Amy. She is predeceased by siblings Alfred O'Farrell and L
 PORTER--Christina Margaret, 21, on January 16, 2005. She is survived by her parents, Brent Porter and Mary Salstrom Porter, of Brooklyn. Christina attended Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights from kindergarten through her graduation in 2002. She was a gifted voice and art student at Dart
 RATZKER--Paula. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of the widely admired matriarch of the Ratzker family whose children Menno (and Helen) Ratzker, grandchildren and great-grandchildren emulate her devotion to the Jewish people. As YU Guardians, they have devoted their 
 ROSS--Audrey. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Audrey Ross, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 RUDNITSKY--Lexi, poet, teacher, mother, daughter, sister and wife. Died of cardiac arrest on January 17, 2005. She was 32. She was married to Alexander Stille on June 15, 2003. She gave birth to Samuel Wolf Rudnitsky Stille on October 13, 2004. She recently had her manuscript accepted for h
 SARACHEK -- Shirley. Be loved wife of the late Julian. Devoted mother of Joe (Heather), Russell (Libellule), Maggie (Paul) Weiss, and Jonas (Bonnie) Rosenthal. Adored grandmother of Jake, Sydney, Josh, Jason, Severin, Griffin, Achille, Julian, Ariel, and Gillian. A long-time, dedicated soci
 WASSERSTROM--Dorothy. 86 years old, died on January 16, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Mother of Barbara and her husband Lloyd Fields. Interment will be private. Contributions to any animal foundation would be appreciated.       
 WEISS--Isabelle K. On January 17, 2005, of Altamonte Springs, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Devoted wife of Saul R. Weiss. Beloved mother of Helaine Signer and Dena Luxenberg. Wonderful mother-in-law of Richard D. Signer and Jerry S. Luxenberg, all of Winter Park, FL. Adored grandmother o
 BIJOU--Sallee. January 19th, 2005. Cherished daughter of Luna Sutton. Beloved wife of the late Joseph E. Bijou. Loving mother of Elie, Leon, Rachel and Luna. Loving mother-in-law of Jonathan Zemmol and Aura Bijou. Devoted grandmother of five. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and lo
 BUDD--Patricia. The attorneys and staff at Anderson Kill & Olick, P.C. mourn the sudden passing of its firm administrator and friend, Patricia Budd. Pat touched all of us at AKO and we will miss her caring, thoughtfulness and professionalism. Pat will always be remembered for her leadership
 CARDIA--Elsie (nee Garaventa). Beloved wife of the late Ubaldo. Cherished mother of Aldo and Vivian, loving grandmother of Ali, Dani and the late Jennifer, and greatgrandmother of Nicholas. She was a great presence in the Italian-American community. Elsie was awarded the Knighthood of Malta
 COOPER--Stella Orkin, a woman of valor, grace and dignity. Beloved by her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Widow of Sumner Zalman Cooper. She leaves her daughters Mildred Glimcher of Manhattan and Susan Cooper of Radnor, PA. Her grandchildren Paul and Marc Glimcher and Carol
 JANEWAY--Elizabeth Hall. The Barnard College community is deeply saddened by the death of former Trustee, Elizabeth Hall Janeway, Class of 1935, who served on the Board from 1969 to 1980. Recipient of Barnard's Medal of Distinction and the Distinguished Alumna Award, she was devoted to her 
 KAYE--Selma on January 18, 2005. Beloved wife of Walter, devoted mother of Joan Cauthorn, Howard Kaye and Nancy Karagis and mother-in-law of Bob Cauthorn, Wilma Kaye and Sylvester Karagis. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer Marsden, Jill Beigel, Darren, Caralyn and Jacquelyn Bialo, Ross and 
 LEVITAN--Arlene of Woodbury, N.Y., on January 19, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Phil. Loving mother of Henry, Mark and Marge. Mother-inlaw of Robin and Gary. Cherished grandmother of Lindsay, Nikki, Dani, Josh, Safrah, Zach and Aliyah. Devoted sister of Janet, deceased, and June. She will 
 MIKULSKY -- Marilyn. The City University of New York mourns the death of marilyn Mikulsky, former Assistant Vice President of Facilities and Planning at Baruch College, and former Dean of Administration at The CUNY Graduate Center. In more than three decades of dedicated service to CUNY, he
 PORTER--Christina. Our family will always remember Christina's beautiful voice, her grace and her talent. John Breit, Fanette Pollack, Jonathan & Elizabeth Breit       
 SCHEUERMANN--Clara Elizabeth. The Lipper family is deeply saddened by the loss of Clara Elizabeth Scheuermann. With noble altruism and deep religious faith Clara devoted her life to educating and caring for children. Dearly beloved, greatly admired and forever appreciated, her memory lives 
 SHORE--Irene Freeman, age 97, on January 19, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Josselyn Shore for 72 years. Cherished mother of Wini and Mike Freund, and Toni and Freeman Shore. Adored grandmother of Jenny and Mike Pardee, Mia and Ramsey Walker, and Julie and Peter Strauss. Loving greatgrandmo
 ABRAMOWITZ--Ida Yolken, peacefully on January 19, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Jack Abramowitz; mother of Janet (Anthony) Joseph, George (Linda) Abramowitz, & Nancy Abramowitz (Mark Ellenberg); grandmother of Jill (Danny), Andy (Tammy), Josh (Beth), Jamie (Rob), Jessica, Julia, Alex & Mol
 BUDD--Patricia. The attorneys and staff at Anderson Kill & Olick, P.C. mourn the sudden passing of its firm administrator and friend, Patricia Budd. Pat touched all of us at AKO and we will miss her caring, thoughtfulness and professionalism. Pat will always be remembered for her leadership
 CARDIA--Elsie (nee Garaventa). Beloved wife of the late Ubaldo. Cherished mother of Aldo and Vivian, loving grandmother of Ali, Dani and the late Jennifer, and greatgrandmother of Nicholas. She was a great presence in the Italian-American community. Elsie was awarded the Knighthood of Malta
 CUNNIFF--Carol Lesley (Baxter). Carley Cunniff (Baxter) died of breast cancer on January 16, 2005, at her home in Lyme, Connecticut. Born on April 1, 1950, in Rockville Centre, NY, Carley was a graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard Business School. She began her career at Dillon, Read 
 EPSTEIN--Fannie (Fine, Altman), March 27, 1915-January 16, 2005, of Manhattan, formerly of East Meadow and Brooklyn. Predeceased by husbands, Joshua Epstein and Jack Fine; sister, Anne Altman; stepson, David Epstein. Survived and greatly loved by daughters, Susan Hochberg and Maxine Bochnia
 FUTTERMAN--Mimi (Manya). On January 20th. 92 years of age. She was beloved by all her family--her daughters Cynthia and Enid, her grandchildren Deborah, Mark, Susan and Matthew, her great grandchildren Danielle, Michelle, Joshua, Chelsea, Alexa, Jacqueline, Aaron and Michael, and her specia
 GHEE--Greta C. Noted antique dealer and committed art supporter. Died unexpectedly at her Manhattan home on December 22. A memorial service will be held at St. Mark's in the Bowery Church on Saturday, February 5th at 2 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be made to The Yard, P.O. 
 JOYCE--Catherine Peet, a resident of New Rochelle, New York for sixty years, died peacefully of natural causes at the home of her son, Timothy J. Joyce. Mrs. Joyce was born in St. Louis, MO, on January 9, 1912. She was married to John M. Joyce, Jr. for fifty-four years until his death in 19
 MEADOW--Phyllis W. The Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in New York City mourns deeply the loss of a beloved and inspiring leader, Phyllis W. Meadow, in New York City on January 19, after a brief illness. She brought to her work an extraordinary ability to engage others in the psych
 NACHAMIE--Carole Jon Altman, 62, of 1075 Royal Drive, Lincolnton, NC died Wednesday, January 19, 2005 at her residence. She was a native of Bronx, NY and daughter of the late Berniece Berman Altman. Mrs. Nachamie was a homemaker, a Member of Temple Emanuel in Gastonia, NC. She attended High
 PACK -- Dr. Rose Hope. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her family. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres.       
 SCHEUERMANN--Clara Elizabeth. The Lipper family is deeply saddened by the loss of Clara Elizabeth Scheuermann. With noble altruism and deep religious faith Clara devoted her life to educating and caring for children. Dearly beloved, greatly admired and forever appreciated, her memory lives 
 SHORE--Irene Freeman, age 97, on January 19, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Josselyn Shore for 72 years. Cherished mother of Wini and Mike Freund, and Toni and Freeman Shore. Adored grandmother of Jenny and Mike Pardee, Mia and Ramsey Walker, and Julie and Peter Strauss. Loving greatgrandmo
 GATTENGO--Daisy. 8/2/23-1/21/04. Exceptional civil servant who rose to Divison Director, NYC. Employee Retirement System. Beloved sister and aunt. Her wit, charm, intelligence and grace inspired all who knew her. Survived by her brother Samuel, niece Nina J. Garfinkel & nephew Mark D. Garfi
 CUNNIFF--Carol Lesley (Baxter). Carley Cunniff (Baxter) died of breast cancer on January 16, 2005, at her home in Lyme, Connecticut. Born on April 1, 1950, in Rockville Centre, NY, Carley was a graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard Business School. She began her career at Dillon, Read 
 GHEE--Greta C. Died unexpectedly at her Manhattan home Wednesday, December 22. The first memorial service will be held at St. Mark's in the Bowery Church on Saturday, February 5 at 2PM. A second memorial will be held at The Yard in Chilmark over Memorial Day weekend. In lieu of flowers, con
 GLASSER--Miriam. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed Founding Member. We extend deepest sympathy to members Rita and Peter Lane, Ian Glasser, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Robert M. S
 JOYCE--Catherine Peet, a resident of New Rochelle, New York for sixty years, died peacefully of natural causes at the home of her son, Timothy J. Joyce. Mrs. Joyce was born in St. Louis, MO, on January 9, 1912. She was married to John M. Joyce, Jr. for fifty-four years until his death in 19
 Georgia Macris, an editor of influential energy industry publications for three decades, died on Jan. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86. The cause was lung cancer, her sister, Sophie Hocknell, said. Ms. Macris graduated from Radcliffe College in 1940. She joine
 APAT--Lillian (nee Packer). On January 19, 2005 at the age of 97. Beloved mother of Claire A. Simkins and Lewis Apat. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Ann; four grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Pre-deceased by her devoted husband Abraham and eldest grandson. Graveside services
 BAKST--Marion. Age 89, died peacefully January 22, 2005, at The Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Milton Bakst. Mother of Lois Montgomery and Robert Ira Bakst. Devoted grandmother of Lisa and Eric. Also survived by her loving brother Bill and her devoted so
 BOBROW -- Barbara Lynn Taishoff Salzman, January 15, 2005 of Woodbridge, CT died at home after a long illness with breast cancer. Devoted wife of Dr. Samuel N. Bobrow. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Dr. Michael B. Bobrow and Sarah E. Webb of Rochester, NY and Jacqueline and Gill Torren
 CUNNIFF--Carol Lesley (Baxter). Carley Cunniff (Baxter) died of breast cancer on January 16, 2005, at her home in Lyme, Connecticut. Born on April 1, 1950, in Rockville Centre, NY, Carley was a graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard Business School. She began her career at Dillon, Read 
 EPSTEIN--Fannie (Fine, Altman), March 27, 1915-January 16, 2005, of Manhattan, formerly of East Meadow and Brooklyn. Predeceased by husbands, Joshua Epstein and Jack Fine; sister, Anne Altman; stepson, David Epstein. Survived and greatly loved by daughters, Susan Hochberg and Maxine Bochnia
 FELDMAN--Peggy Schanzer. We will always love and remember our adorable mother, cherished sister, dear grandmother and sweet friend. Peggy passed away January 21, 2005 and is survived by her sister Joanne Lieboff, her children Sarah (''Dixie'') and Adam Feldman, and her granddaughters Kiely 
 FISHMAN -- Nancy Wotiz Stern. Of West Orange, NJ. A woman of infinite energy and a contagious joie de vivre, died on January 21, 2005, surrounded by love. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Louis Wotiz, and wife of the late Benjamin L. Stern. Surviving are her daughters, Amy and 
 FUTTERMAN--Mimi (Manya). On January 20th. 92 years of age. She was beloved by all her family--her daughters Cynthia and Enid, her grandchildren Deborah, Mark, Susan and Matthew, her great grandchildren Danielle, Michelle, Joshua, Chelsea, Alexa, Jacqueline, Aaron and Michael, and her specia
 GOMBERG--Edith S. Lisansky, 85, (Ph.D. Yale '49) of Brooklyn, NY, has died peacefully at home in Ann Arbor, MI. She was a questioning and iconoclastic achiever and a role model to all who knew her. A pioneer in the study of alcoholism, she served on the faculties of Yale, Rutgers and the Un
 GORHAM--Ethel. Of Westport, CT., died Wednesday, November 17, 2004, after a short illness, age 94. In her long career, Mrs. Gorham was the author of several novels & non-fiction books, a noted peace activist, an advertising executive and a loving wife and mother. She is survived by her chil
 JENTOFT-NILSEN--Marit R. Died Sunday, January 16, 2005 in East Greenbush, NY, aged 66. Born in New York City, Marit received her A.B. and M.A. degrees in Latin at SUNY Albany. For several years she taught Latin in Clarkstown, NY, before receiving her Ph.D. in Classics at the USC in '85 with
 LASKY--Jerome M., on January 15, at 83. Cherished husband of Lila for 59 years. Devoted father of Beth, Ronni and her husband, Bill Metzger. Adoring ''Papa'' to Scott. Loving brother of Harvey. World War II officer, brilliant attorney, and former judge of the Nassau County District Court. W
 MACRIS--Georgia. Of NYC, on January 13, 2005. A graduate of Radcliffe College, she was Editor-in-Chief of Petroleum Intelligence Weekly. She is survived by her only living sister, Sophie Patrikas Hocknell of Salem, MA.       
 MEADOW--Phyllis W., Ph.D. A remarkable woman whose energy, spirit and generosity inspired the learning and growth that take place here. Always in quest of the truth, Dr. Meadow never let obstacles stand in the way and always made the impossible seem possible. We've lost a dear friend. Janet
 NEGLIA -- Josephine. Died January 21, at the age of 91. She was born in Oyster Bay, NY, to Concetta and Frank Neglia. As a St. Luke's Nursing School graduate, she served as a captain in the army nurse corps, WWII, with the second evacuation hospital in Normandy and Europe, and received four
 WEBB-CLANCY--Lisa Anne. 38, of San Francisco, formerly of Hazlet, passed away on January 18, in San Francisco, CA. She was a resident of Hazlet before moving to San Francisco fourteen years ago. She attended St. John Vianney High School in Holmdel and graduated with honors in 1984. She atte
 FELD--Isabel. 8/29/19-1/23/00. My darling and unforgettable precious wife, lover and companion for more than 60 years. I love you and miss you. Not a day goes by that I don't think of you and cry for you and for me. Harold FELD--ISABEL. In memory of Isabel Feld, a lady of beauty, gr
 GATTENGO--Daisy. 8/2/23-1/21/04. Exceptional civil servant who rose to Divison Director, NYC. Employee Retirement System. Beloved sister and aunt. Her wit, charm, intelligence and grace inspired all who knew her. Survived by her brother Samuel, niece Nina J. Garfinkel & nephew Mark D. Garfi
 KLEBAN--Mildred (Mickey). Remembered with love and affection by family and friends on the anniversary of her 100th Birthday. Always in our thoughts.       
 APAT--Lillian (nee Packer). On January 19, 2005 at the age of 97. Beloved mother of Claire A. Simkins and Lewis Apat. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Ann; four grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Pre-deceased by her devoted husband Abraham and eldest grandson. Graveside services
 CHMELAR--Caroline ''Tiree''. Of Chelsea, NYC, Palenville, NY and Mikulov, Czech Republic, died in a traffic accident in Palenville. She is survived by her loving husband of 42 years Lubomir; her devoted children Pascal of Palenville, Damian of Summit, NJ, Melissa (Griffith) of NYC and Lydia
 CUNNIFF--Carley. With the passing of Carley Cunniff, Swarthmore College has lost a distinguished graduate, a treasured member of its Board of Managers, and a dear friend. Carley's brilliant acuity and subtlety of mind, her wise appreciation for long-term consequence, her courage, her extrao
 HERZOG--Pnina. With a profound sense of loss and sadness Emunah of America mourns the passing of Pnina Herzog, past President of World Emunah. Pnina was an eloquent advocate for Israel, for human rights, and for civility. Our hearts go out to her children Shira, Eliezra, and Isaac. Heddy Kl
 PADAWER--Eva. The Be'er Hagolah Institutes extend their deepest condolences to Micheline Ratzersdorfer, wife of our founder and longtime President Marc Ratzersdorfer, on the passing of her beloved mother, Mrs. Eva Padawer, who led her family in support of the education of Russian Jewish chi
 SHEFT--Gertrude. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Leonard and Monique, and Aileen. She leaves a legacy of four grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren and one great-greatgrandchild. Services Tuesday, 12:30 PM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street and Madison Avenue.   
 Miriam Rothschild, the heiress who discovered how fleas jump, brought Chaucerian wildflowers back to modern England and was acknowledged as one of the world's most distinguished naturalists, died Thursday at her home, Ashton Wold, in Northamptonshire. She was 96. Her death was annou
 ANDREWS -- Sara Sonsol. Friends and relatives mourn the passing of Sara Sonsol Andrews on January 23, 2005, after a long illness. Sara was a longtime activist in the National Organization for Women, where she served on the Board of Directors for many years; in the anti-war movement, and in 
 ARKIN--Ethel. 93, beloved wife of the late Joseph, cherished mother of Marcy, adored grandmother of Shari and Harold. She will be missed by many.       
 BAXTER--Katherine D. On January 19, 2005 in Peterborough, NH of natural causes at age 86. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, Richard S., her son David A. Baxter of Crested Butte, CO, her three daughters, Mildred B. Perkins of Topsfield, Massachusetts, Katherine R. Torrance of Keene
 DUFFICY--Hon. Ann B. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the employees of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Jamaica Hospital Nursing Home Co (Trump Pavilion) and their parent corporation, MediSys Health Network, mourn the passing of our esteemed Chairperson, Ann B. Dufficy. Her lead
 FAYER--Edythe B., 81, of Boca Raton, FL and formerly of New Rochelle, NY, on January 23, 2005. Devoted wife of Alfred. Beloved mother of Russell and his wife Ella Fayer, Carole and her husband Eugene Strum and Leslie Fayer. Loving grandmother to Marissa and Jared Fayer, Denise Strum and her
 GRAHAM--Kathleen Healy. Age 79, of Locust Valley, NY died on January 24. Memorial mass will be held at St. Dominic's, Oyster Bay, New York 10:30 AM Friday, January 28th. Kathleen is survived by husband William, daughter Joyce G. Bullen, grandchildren Melissa B. Johnson, Alicia B. Fox, Laure
 KURZON -- Mindy. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Kurzon, died peacefully at home in Tamarac, FL on January 22, 2005. She is survived by her loving children, Susan Goldin and Robert Kurzon and thier spouses Archie and Jane, her beloved brother Philip Needelman and her cherished granddaught
 McGRIFF -- Erline Perkins. December 24, 2004. A much respected professor of nursing at New York University for over 30 years. She received many accolades and honors for her outstanding contributions to the nursing profession. A native of Petersburg, VA, she spent most of her adult life in N
 McHUGH--Beverley Wright (Mrs. Frank A.) January 21, 2005, Naples, Florida, wife of the late Frank A. McHugh, well-known hotel and club manager, Bermuda, Nassau, Bahamas and New York, daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Wright of Colorado Springs, Colorado. Mrs. McHugh was born in C
 SHEFT--Gertrude. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Leonard and Monique, and Aileen. She leaves a legacy of four grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren and one great-greatgrandchild. Services Tuesday, 12:30 PM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street and Madison Avenue.   
 STORCH--Ruth. The Board of Directors of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City mourns the loss of our former Board Member and Co-Founder of The Womens' Division, Ruth Storch. A timeless supporter and volunteer for almost sixty years, she will be missed by all. Our heartfelt condolences go t
 ARNI -- Helen G. (nee Roberts). On January 23, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Joseph, Jr., Michael, Susan, Lawrence, and Mark. Devoted grandmother of Douglas, Brie, Michael, and Kim. Loving great-grandmother of Benjamin Joseph. Sister of Anne Marie Gagliotti. Reposi
 BEY--Mollie. The Les Turchin Chabad House at Rutgers U. mourns the loss of our friend. Our heartfelt condolences to her children, Stanley, Arne and Sharyn. Rabbi Yosef Carlebach Jeffrey Greenberg, B. Fox, Donald Hecht, Presidium       
 BLAU--Maxine. Resident of South Orange, New Jersey, passed away at her home on January 24 with her loving sister, family, and devoted friend by her side. Maxine was born on July 8, 1940 to the late Hope & Raymond Blau. A graduate of the University of Chicago, Maxine worked as a mainframe co
 BOGOMOLNY--Frances age 87 on January 21. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Bogomolny. Cherished mother of Abby Bogomolny. Compassionate sister and aunt. Memorial to be held 10 A.M. Wednesday January 26 at Weinstein's Chapel, 1153 Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn. Contributions in her memory may be
 DUFFICY--Hon. Ann B. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the employees of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Jamaica Hospital Nursing Home Co (Trump Pavilion) and their parent corporation, MediSys Health Network, mourn the passing of our esteemed Chairperson, Ann B. Dufficy. Her lead
 IRISH--Mary Rettig. Of Plano, Texas and Manhattan died Sunday at age 59 in her Texas home after a long battle with cancer. She was a devoted wife whose passion for motherhood paralleled a life devoted to friendship and philanthropy. Mary was born of German parents in Nachod, Czechoslovakia,
 KREITMAN--Phyllis Wisser. On January 24th, 2005 at 6PM, Phyllis Kreitman, loving wife of Stanley Kreitman lost her long valiant battle against leukemia. Phyllis was an angel in a human body and a joy to a multitude of friends. Up until her death, Phyllis actively served selflessly on many c
 KURZON -- Mindy. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Kurzon, died peacefully at home in Tamarac, FL on January 22, 2005. She is survived by her loving children, Susan Goldin and Robert Kurzon and their spouses Archie and Jane, her beloved brother Philip Needelman and her cherished granddaught
 McGRIFF -- Erline Perkins. December 24, 2004. A much respected professor of nursing at New York University for over 30 years. She received many accolades and honors for her outstanding contributions to the nursing profession. A native of Petersburg, VA, she spent most of her adult life in N
 NEGLIA--Josephine. The Officers and Members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member, Josephine Neglia. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 BLAU--Maxine. Resident of South Orange, New Jersey, passed away at her home on January 24 with her loving sister, family, and devoted friend by her side. Maxine was born on July 8, 1940 to the late Hope & Raymond Blau. A graduate of the University of Chicago, Maxine worked as a mainframe co
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 DALEY--Mary, (nee Collins), 96, of Bronxville, died on January 25, 2005. She was born May 20, 1908 in Bangor, Maine. Beloved wife of the late Thomas V. Daley who was the former Executive Vice President of N.Y. Telephone. Cherished mother of Elizabeth Gillis Daley, Lucinda Daley Finnegan, Th
 KASSEL--Alberta Donahue. On January 25, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Cherished mother of Sandra Bornstein and Joseph; devoted grandmother of Lisa, Danica, Leona, Misha and Nnamdi. Private family services were held at Joseph G. Duffy Funeral Home, Bklyn, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, do
 KREITMAN--Phyllis Wisser. On January 24th, 2005 at 6PM, Phyllis Kreitman, loving wife of Stanley Kreitman lost her long valiant battle against leukemia. Phyllis was an angel in a human body and a joy to a multitude of friends. Up until her death, Phyllis actively served selflessly on many c
 VAN NORDEN--Jeanie, 88, of New York, Died January 25, 2005. She was predeceased by her parents, Ottomar H. and Jeanie Duncan Van Norden and three brothers, Hoghland, Duncan and Langdon. She is survived by two nieces, Olivia Van Norden Truslow, and Susan Van Norden Humphrey and a nephew Lang
 Anne Cox, a New York socialite who designed high fashion for high society in the 1950's and became the mother-in-law of a president's daughter, died on Tuesday in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was Lewy body disease, a form of dementi
 CHEMLAR--Tiree Caroline. The Trustees and staff of the World Monuments Fund mark with great sadness the tragic death of Tiree Caroline Chemlar. A dynamic and much admired advocate of preservation; and a distinctly wonderful person much loved by all who knew her, Tiree Chemlar with her husba
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 JELIN--Mira. On January 23, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. She'll be remembered by many devoted friends. Services Monday 2PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MAYER--Eleanor G., New York, NY, at the age of 73. On January 24, 2005, Ellie passed away leaving her companion, sister, brother, three nephews, seven grandnephews and grandnieces, and many, many friends. Ellie lived in Manhattan, taught at Public School 126 for 28 years, and loved Oregon a
 MORRIS--Claire Bloch. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home on January 27, 2005 at age 102. Born Claire Irene Bloch, on March 15, 1902 in San Francisco, CA., where she was raised. Beloved wife of the late Frank Jeddis of San Francisco and the late David Morris of New York City. Loving mothe
 SHAPIRA--Karen A. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed Board member, Mrs. Karen A. Shapira. A founding member and leader of UJC and a past chair of the United Jewish Federation of Pitt
 STEINBERGER -- Ilse. Died peacefully January 5, 2005, in Manhattan, aged 98. Mother of Erica Steinberger McLean and grandmother of Chloe Helene Gordon McLean, both of New York City, and widow of Harry Steinberger. Ilse Helene Bretschneider was born December 22, 1906, in Buffalo, New York, a
 VELARDI--Lillian, on January 26, 2005. Devoted wife of Guy. Loving mother of Paul and mother-in-law of Susan. Cherished grandmother of Emma and Blake. Visitation Friday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave (70th St) NYC. Interment Saturday 11 AM at St. John's Cemetery, Middl
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 DE VRIES--Miriam (nee Jainchill), died on January 27, 2005 in San Francisco at the age of 80. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Robert and William. Loving, devoted grandmother to Nora, Molly and Daniel. Services on Sunday, January 30, 9:45am, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 
 KREITMAN--Phyllis. She was a dear friend, a woman of intelligence and warmth. Our hearts go out to Stanley and Billy. Dolores and Herb Goldsmith       
 MORRIS--Claire Bloch. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home on January 27, 2005 at age 102. Born Claire Irene Bloch, on March 15, 1902 in San Francisco, CA., where she was raised. Beloved wife of the late Frank Jeddis of San Francisco and the late David Morris of New York City. Loving mothe
 Consuelo Velzquez, the songwriter who in 1941 created ''Bsame Mucho,'' a Latin hit that took on a life of its own worldwide, died on Jan. 22 in Mexico City. She was believed to have been 88. The cause was respiratory problems, her family told The Associated Press. ''Bs
 ANDREWS -- Sara Sonsol. Friends and relatives mourn the passing of Sara Sonsol Andrews on January 23, 2005, after a long illness. Sara was a longtime activist in the National Organization for Women, where she served on the Board of Directors for many years; in the anti-war movement, and in 
 BAXTER--Katherine D. On January 19, 2005 in Peterborough, NH of natural causes at age 86. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, Richard S., her son David A. Baxter of Crested Butte, CO, her three daughters, Mildred B. Perkins of Topsfield, Massachusetts, Katherine R. Torrance of Keene
 BERWICK--Virginia. Virginia L. Berwick, 89, formerly of Mount Kisco, New York, died Wednesday, January 26, 2005, at home in Rhode Island. She was the wife of the late Adrian J. Berwick and the daughter of the late U. S. Senator and federal Judge Edward L. Leahy and Fern Dixon Leahy. A gradu
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 DE VRIES--Miriam (nee Jainchill), died on January 27, 2005 in San Francisco at the age of 80. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Robert and William. Loving, devoted grandmother to Nora, Molly and Daniel. Services on Sunday, January 30, 9:45am, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 
 DIEDERICH--Margaret Ross. Of New York City, formerly of Sneden's Landing, Palisades, NY, on January 23, 2005, at age 79. Margaret was an extraordinarily gifted, world class harpist and seven time recipient of the ''Most Valuable Player'' award from N.A.R.A.S. She was also blessed with an in
 FOSTER--Jean, suddenly on January 26, 2005, of Englewood, NJ. Survived by her nieces, Ruth E. Coyne of Lloyd Harbor, NY, Betsy S. Foster of Charlotte, NC, and nephew, John S. Foster of Holliston, MA. Predeceased by her loving brother, Pell, and niece, Susan. Memorial service Friday, Februar
 FRIEDJUNG -- Judith. 81 years old on January 28, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Hans. She was a women of intelligence, kindness and dignity. We will cherish her memory. Service Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LANDAU--Bernice, 74, of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away on Monday, January 24, 2005. She was laid to rest on Thursday, January 27, 2005. Bernice left behind her loving husband, Harold, of 43 years; her children who loved her dearly and will miss her greatly, Wayne (Iris), Cheryl (Joe), Lau
 LLOYD--Martha Leona (nee Bowles), of Tequesta, FL. died in Manhattan January 17, 2005. Wife of the late Claude Geoffrey Fitzroy Lloyd, she is survived by her daughter Gail Patricia, son Robert Alan Fitzroy, grandson & great-granddaughter. A memorial service will be held at St. James' Church
 MORRIS--Claire Bloch. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home on January 27, 2005 at age 102. Born Claire Irene Bloch, on March 15, 1902 in San Francisco, CA., where she was raised. Beloved wife of the late Frank Jeddis of San Francisco and the late David Morris of New York City. Loving mothe
 NACHAMIE--Carole Jon. Of Riverdale, NY & Lincolnton, NC, died on January 18, 2005. Services were held January 21st. Beloved wife of David A. Nachamie, M.D., mother of Deirdre & Eric, grandmother of Gabriel, daughter of Benjamin Altman and the late Bernice Altman. Beloved aunt and sister-in-
 SCHECHTER--Frances. Died January 28, 2005. Loving wife of the late Sydney. Dear sister to Rita, and the late Miriam, Lalla and brother Maxie. Devoted and doting mother to Paula and Steve. Treasured and quintessential grandmother to James, Lisa, Scott and Nancy. Prized GG to Kaitlin, Jordan,
 SCHWARTZ-Winter--Gloria. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away peacefully on January 22 in FL. Devoted mother of Laurie Cohen and Rhonda Sherwin, proud grandmother of Adam, Danielle and Lindsey. She was a jewel in the fabric of our lives.       
 TOBOROFF--Myrna, on January 28, 2005. Loving Mother of Steven. Dear sister of Robert Ungar. She will be dearly missed by her family and friends. Service Sunday, 11:30 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue       
 ALTMAN--Honorable Myriam J. Died on January 29, 2005. Beloved wife of Judge Herbert. Dear mother of Michael and Lisa (Z''l), Daniel and Gabrielle and Sarah and Yehuda. Adored and adoring grandmother of Shlomo, Isaac, Charlie, Eliyahu, Avigayil, Caroline, Orly, Sophia and Chana. Cherished si
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 ROTHLIN--Harriet. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Engineers Country Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Harriet Rothlin, on January 28, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Harold and her family. Les Genatt, President       
 STERN -- Elinore (nee Scheer). Beloved wife of Fred, died peacefully, and is mourned by her brother Don, daughter Cindy Chaplin, sons, grandchildren, family and friends.       
 STERN--Irene. A truly unique woman has left us with a void that can never be filled. She toiled with her husband, Gustav, and helped found Hartz Mountain Pet Foods. World traveler, rancher, sports woman and philanthropist. She was a devoted mother, adored grandmother & greatgrandmother. Sle
 TILL--Alice (nee Pollitzer). Passed away at The Atrium of Wayne, in Wayne, NJ on Sunday, January 30, 2005. She was born in Austria and lived in Mineola, Long Island, NY, before relocating to Wayne, NJ. She was the Executive Sales Director of Gimbels Department Store in Garden City, NY. She 
