 Kay Teer Crawford, whose sympathy for high school girls who did not make the cheerleading squad in her Texas hometown led her to start one of the first of the drill teams, died on Aug. 29 at her home in Redondo Beach, Calif. She was 88. Her son Kim said the reason earlier reports of
 BERKENFELD-Karen F. Loving and caring wife of Steve. Beloved daughter of June and Phil. Cherished sister to Bob, Kathy and the late Sylvia. Dear sister-in-law to Shari and Mike. Loved cousin to many including Korki and Jon. Devoted Godmother to Phil and Andrew. Our sadness is great, the voi
 BIGGS-Georgene W. Died September 29, 2001, at the age of 94. Devoted wife of the late William R. Biggs. Beloved mother of Barton, Jeremy and Christopher. She was the adored grandmother of Wende, Gretchen, Barton, Fiona, Allegra, Melissa, Robin, Courtney, Jennifer and Christopher. She is als
 BLANCK-Gertrude. Died September 29, 2001, of pancreatic cancer. Her family will love and miss her always. Susan, Robert Peter and Thomas Franzen       
 HANOVER-Mae. Of Tamarac, FL, 88 passed away on September 30, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Ernest J. Mother of Steven J. (wife Abby). Nana Mae to Evan, Andrea and David. Dear sister of Rose Silverberg, Bernice Kearney and the late Alice Wechsler and Minnie Schecter. Dear Aunt Mae to many. 
 KLEIMAN-Mildred ''Gong Gong.'' Died on Septebmer 29, 2001, at the age of 94. Adored mother of Lynne Spanbock. Beloved grandmother of Richard, Jane, Janese and the late Paul Spanbock. Loving great-grandmother of Alex, Emily and Bari. Devoted wife of the late H. Paul Shanik and the late Morri
 PERVIN-Anita. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime member. Our condolences to her family and friends. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President       
 ANDRUCKI-Jean. Born in New York Hospital on October 1, 1957. She grew up and attended school in Smithtown, New York. She was in the first class to attend Smithtown High School West, where she played three sports. She was in the first graduating class and was awarded the scholar athlete awar
 BERKENFELD-Karen F. Loving and caring wife of Steve. Beloved daughter of June and Phil. Cherished sister to Bob, Kathy and the late Sylvia. Dear sister-in-law to Doris, Shari and Mike and aunt to Erica. Loved cousin to many including Korki and Jon. Devoted Godmother to Phil and Andrew. Our 
 BIGGS-Georgene W. Died September 29, 2001, at the age of 94. Devoted wife of the late William R. Biggs. Beloved mother of Barton, Jeremy and Christopher. She was the adored grandmother of Wende, Gretchen, Barton, Fiona, Allegra, Melissa, Robin, Courtney, Jennifer and Christopher. She is als
 BURACK-Zahava. It is with deep sorrow that we record the death of Zahava Burack, a Vice President and past Guest of Honor. Zahava was a dedicated worker for education in the State of Israel. A deep void will be left in our ranks with her passing. To her son Jeff and her sisters, we offer ou
 DARLING-Elizabeth Ann, 28. A native of Peekskill, N.Y. is missing in the September 11th World Trade Center tragedy. She was a financial analyst at Marsh & McLennan. She was the daughter of Earl and the late Margaret (nee Holloway) Darling, of Peekskill. She is survived by a son, Michael Pra
 FATELY-Margot (nee Bersin). Beloved wife of Norman. Devoted mother of Robert and Andrew. Cherished grandmother of David, Alex and Kendall. Dear sister of Richard Bersin. Services are on Thursday, 12 noon, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York. In lieu of
 GRAZIOSO-Timothy G. and John M. Of Gulf Stream, FL and Middletown, NJ, both formerly of Clifton, both missing since the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center. Timothy, beloved husband of Deborah (Pankanin) and loving father of Lauren and Briana. John, beloved husband of Tina (
 JERKOWSKY - Rosalyn. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Outreach Institute in New York, mourn the passing of Rosalyn Jerkowsky, loving mother of Ruth Elkes, wife of Terry Elkes, our esteemed President of the Board. Through her life, she taught the values that live on in her chil
 LAMBERT-Mab, 84. Died NYC Sept 29. Widow of Dr. Adrian Lambert. Survived by her children Robin Baskett (Mrs. Charles), Adrian Lambert, Cassie Nissen and granddaughter Alexandra von Raab. Private service. Contributions to Grosvenor Neighborhood House, 176 West 105 Street, NYC 10025, or Shipl
 MILLER-Miriam. Of Lake Worth, FL, 84. Passed away on October 1. Adored mother of Sharon Miller Corso. Beloved sister of George. Devoted mother-in-law of Anthony. Services on Thursday, October 4, 12 noon, Parkside Chapel, 98-60 Queens Boulevard, Rego Park. Donations in her memory to Hospice 
 PARKINSON-Ellott. The Auxiliary of Lenox Hill Hospital mourns the passing of the beloved husband of our long time member and former Chairman, Lee Ward Parkinson, and extends heartfelt condolences to her and to the entire family. Katherine McEnroe, Chairman       
 PINSLY-Betty. Age 94, on September 30, 2001. Of Hallandale, FL, formerly of Queens, NY. Survived by her son Stephan, daughter Shelley Stein, sister Sylvia Lattman, five loving grandchildren.       
 REALE-Virginia (Fiocco), November 18, 1897-September 29, 2001. Daughter of the late Rose (Collica) & Enrico Fiocco, stepmother Antoinette. Beloved wife of the late Salvatore Reale, loving mother of daughter Eleanor & son-in-law John Lavarello, son S. Robert & daughter-in-law Mary Reale. Dau
 SILVER-Ida Ostreich, 90. Of New York City and Kingston, RI, died September 29. Loving wife of the late Bernard Silver. Devoted mother of Stephen Silver & Naomi Neft. Caring mother-in-law of Margot Silver and David Neft. Cherished grandmother of Amy and Kate Silver and Michael and Debbie Nef
 SOLOW-Ruth. On September 30. During her long life, she was a thoughtful and caring person, devoted to her family and friends. She will be sorely missed by the Kavaler, Freedman, Kelson and Klibanski-Soberman families. Service on Thursday, at 1 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Ams
 BLANCK-Gertrude. The New York School for Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis and its membership Society honor the memory of our colleague and mentor, Dr. Gertrude Blanck. She was an innovator in training psychoanalytic psychotherapists, including the founders and faculty of our 
 CHATARY-Magda (nee Szentgyorgyi-Horvath), born in Budapest, Hungary. Artist, principal engineer, and devoted mother. Passed on September 27th, 2001, age 74. Survived by her loving daughter Christina, dear brother George, and many caring family members and true friends, as well as her belove
 COLLIN-Jean M. Age 42, of NYC, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack of September 11. Jean was a Risk Manager for Pfizer, Inc. and was attending a meeting at the WTC. She was a graduate St. Vincent Ferrer HS, Grace Institute, and Pace University, and spent her entire pr
 REALE-Virginia (Fiocco), November 18, 1897-September 29, 2001. Daughter of the late Rose (Collica) and Enrico Fiocco, stepmother Eugenia, stepmother Antoinette. Beloved wife of the late Salvatore Reale, loving mother of daughter Eleanor & son-in-law John Lavarello, son S. Robert & daughter-
 RUSSELL-Mary Ferguson. Died peacefully in Essex, CT, on September 29, 2001. Beloved wife of Tuck for 55 years. Mother of Tom, Jennifer and Sarah. Born in Schenectady in 1914, was brought up in Hartford and graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington. She worked for the Office of War I
 SILVER-Ida Ostreich, 90. Of New York City and Kingston, RI, died September 29. Loving wife of the late Bernard Silver. Devoted mother of Stephen Silver & Naomi Neft. Caring mother-in-law of Margot Silver and David Neft. Cherished grandmother of Amy and Kate Silver and Michael and Debbie Nef
 BURACK-Zahava. State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Zahava Burack, a devoted leader and a passionate supporter of Israel. She was Chair of Palm Beach Israel Bonds, the Westchester Women's Division, and served on the National Women's Division Board. Her untiring work for Bonds helped r
 COLLIN-Jean M. Age 42, of NYC, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack of September 11. Jean was a Risk Manager for Pfizer, Inc. and was attending a meeting at the WTC. She was a graduate St. Vincent Ferrer HS, Grace Institute, and Pace University, and spent her entire pr
 EICHENBAUM-Annette. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Dr. Joseph W. Eichenbaum, her sons Gary and Kenneth and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffr
 GRUNWALD-Lotte (Moses). November 15, 1915-October 2, 2001. Daughter of the late Jennie (Posen) and Hugo Moses. Beloved wife of the late Kurt Grunwald. Loving mother of daughter Cecille and son-in-law Morgan Alexander Gunst and son Roger Hugh Grunwald. Grandmother of Marissa and Martin Gunst
 HENDERSON-Kathryn Silverthorne. Of NYC died peacefully on September 28, 2001 at the age of 84. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Edward Henderson, loving mother of Edward and Susan, sister of Frederick, grandmother of Samantha, Victoria, and Monica, and great-grandmother of Eleanor and Charles. 
 TOLINS-Claire (nee Rothstein). Loving wife of the late Albert Tolins. Devoted mother of Roger Tolins and mother-in-law of Doris Tolins. Cherished grandmother of Fran and Joshua Weingast and Jonathan Tolins. Beloved great grandmother of Arielle & Joanna Weingast. Dear sister of Anne Gerber a
 YOUNG-Sally Wen. 84, American Chinese Socialite and Chairman American Hawaii Cruise Line, San Francisco, Sally died peacefully the evening of October 1, 2001. Sally was born in Shanghai, China, she received her undergraduate degree from Soochow University in China and a graduate degree from
 Gloria Foster, the distinguished stage actress who portrayed generations of African-American characters in plays like ''In White America'' and ''Having Our Say,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 64. The cause was diabetes, said Clarence Williams 3rd, her former hu
 BURGER-Beverly Lydia. On September 30. In 79 years she gave love, humor, creativity, and wisdom to children Bruce and Nola, brother Stanley Spear, and grandchildren Corinne and Ethan. Service October 8 at 1 PM at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Lindenhurst. In lieu of flowers, donations to American Pa
 RUFF-Edith Brener (nee Jordan). Died peacefully, Wednesday, October 4, 2001. She was a member of the Cosmopolitan Club and an active member of Planned Parenthood, and the Citizens' Committee for Children. She lived fearlessly, loving life, her friends, and the arts passionately. Edith is su
 WINCH-Rita M. (nee Kelhetter). On October 1, 2001. Survived by children, Richard and Linda Winch, Mary Ann Sayers, Alyson and Patrick Milbourn and grandchildren, Larry, Irene, Alex, Kristin and Kimberly. She will be missed.       
 FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. Passed away peacefully and with dignity in her home on Friday, October 5, 2001 at the age of 74, concluding a six year battle with cancer. Survived by adoring husband Israel Friedman; devoted children Steven (and Sheira) Schacter, Jessica (and Allen) Gribetz, Judith (
 McSHERRY-Mary Elizabeth. We mourn the passing of our mother, but will always cherish the many wonderful times she shared with us. Mom was the greatest. She always made us feel that we were the greatest and we'll love her forever. Her Children and Grandchildren       
 ABBOTT-Louise S. Passed away peacefully at the age of 93, September 29th at her home in Pomfret Center, Connecticut. She was born Louise Slocum in Jamaica Plain, MA. She graduated with honors from The Winsor School in 1926. She attended Vassar College and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Radcl
 BERTELL-Mildred. Age 97. In Hallandale, FL. on October 4, 2001. We wish all people could celebrate Milly's life of love. All who had the privilege of sharing a few moments of her gracious being know what true generosity of spirit is. Her joy of life, her gift of humor, dignity and elegance 
 BROWN-Dr. Audrey K. The Department of Pediatrics and the College of Medicine at SUNY Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn note with sadness the death of Dr. Audrey K. Brown, Professor and Director of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology from 1974-91. She was a world-renowned researcher in the fiel
 CHANDLER-Amy. New York, NY, age 97. On Wednesday, September 26, 2001. Member of the Civic Repertory Theater in the 1930s and the American Repertory Theater in the 1940s. Born in Philadelphia, PA, and came to New York in the 1920s with her friend Thelma Chandler to become a ballerina. Toured
 DAINE-Barbara Hoge. On October 4, 2001, at age 67. Beloved wife of the late Robert A. Daine. Loving mother of Virginia F. and James H. Daine and mother-inlaw of Kimberly A. Daine. Adoring grandmother of Dillon James and Shannon Marie Daine. Devoted daughter of Virginia McClamroch and the la
 FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Nathalie Friedman, a cherished friend of the Jewish community and beloved sister of our former board member and longtime advocate, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. A member of one of
 HEBER-Roberta Bernstein. Died September 11, 2001 at 1 World Trade Center where she was an Assistant Vice President and Systems Analyst for Marsh & McLennan. Formerly of Paramus, NJ, she lived in Manhattan for the past six years. She is survived by her husband Jack Heber; her mother Belle Ka
 JACKSON-Ellen (nee McWade). Peacefully, September 15, 2001, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Predeceased by husband Stuart. Survived by her loving daughters Susan (Robert), Janet (Andre), Margaret (Harold) and her grandchildern Erica, Katherine, John, Suzanne, Stuart and William.       
 MESHNICK-Martha. 81, on October 5. Loving mother to Ellen and Steve, and mother-in-law to Paul Immerman and Mary McKinney. Cherished grandmother to Maggie, Leah, Ellie and Laura, and sister to Jerry Farber. She was an independent woman with a warm sense of humor who will be missed by many r
 PETRUSA-Rose B. On October 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Anthony, loving mother of Annette and Charles and grandmother of Jeffrey and Douglas. Dear sister of Jeanne, Frances and Paul. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Monday 2-5 and 7-9 pm. Funeral Mas
 QUERY-Mary V. Born Vincenza Maria Giuseppa Fusco in 1900, Positano, Italy. At the age of three, was brought to Manhattan, Parish of St. Paul the Apostle. A move to the Bronx began many years at Our Lady of Mt. Carmel. After graduation from JHS 45, she was employed as an embroiderer. When NY
 ROSENBERG - Lenore Nathan Block. Of Buffalo NY, died peacefully September 27, 2001, in her ninetieth year. She is deeply mourned by her son, the writer Lawrence Block of New York City; her stepsons, Richard Rosenberg of Laguna Beach and Arthur Rosenberg of Albuquerque; her daughters-in-law,
 SCHWARTZ-Ronald. October 4, 2001. Boca Raton, FL. formerly of Bellmore, NY. Beloved husband of Adrienne. Cherished father of Meryl, Debbie and her husband Richard. Proud and loving Poppie to Rob, Josh and Erica. Son of the late Max and Rose Schwartz. Cousin and friend to many. Service at 10
 STAVELY-Patricia Weiland. Age 55, suddenly on October 5, 2001, in Cambridge, MA. Adoring, caring mother of Jonathan. Deeply loved, greatly respected daughter of Sue and Ed Weiland. Loving sister and sister-in-law of Nancy and Tom Carpenter. Special friend of Carmen. Beloved by her greataunt
 WITTLIN-WEISS-Randi. 40, on October 6, after a courageous, prolonged bout with breast cancer. A love of life, a positive attitude and an unwavering determination to forge on and lead a ''normal'' life as a devoted wife and a nurturing mother... these were some of the qualities that defined 
 CZAP-Carolyne. Carolyne was my love, companion and gentle critic. She desrves a place in heaven for her unfaltering love, patience and tolerance. I will grieve for her as long as I last. Eugene       
 BERTELL-Mildred. Age 97. In Hallandale, FL. on October 4, 2001. We wish all people could celebrate Milly's life of love. All who had the privilege of sharing a few moments of her gracious being know what true generosity of spirit is. Her joy of life, her gift of humor, dignity and elegance 
 CARUSO-Olga M. Age 89, on October 4, 2001, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Caruso. Devoted mother of Jola and Vicki. Adored grandmother of Paul. Caring mother-in-law of Bob and Diamond. Artist and teacher. She will be greatly missed.       
 CITRONBAUM-Sadie ''Zada''. Of Lauderhill, FL, passed away on Wednesday, October 3, 2001. She is survived by her beloved husband, Jacob, her loving daughter, Beth Breus and devoted grandchildren, Lauren and Michael Breus.       
 FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its member Jessica Gribetz and sister of Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President       
 SPOFFORD-Margaret W. ''Zee''. Died peacefully at home in her 97th year. Lifelong resident of New York and Fishers Island. She is survived by her four children, Nancy Yerkes, Nick Spofford, Peggy Benkard and John Spofford, her brother Shaw Walker, 13 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
 DAINE-Barbara Hoge. On October 4, 2001, at age 67. Beloved wife of the late Robert A. Daine. Loving mother of Virginia F. and James H. Daine and mother-inlaw of Kimberly A. Daine. Adoring grandmother of Dillon James and Shannon Marie Daine. Devoted daughter of Virginia McClamroch and the la
 DUNN-Margaret Freyn ''Maggie''. Cruciverbalist, musician, generous volunteer died September 25, 2001 in Shelburne, VT at age 85. Formerly of New Rochelle, NY. Predeceased by husband Thomas Mansfield Dunn. Survived by her children Thomas Freyn Dunn of Boston, MA and Sarah Mansfield Hoag (Sal
 FEINBERG-Belle ''Buddy'' (nee Guttesman), age ninety-two, on October 8, 2001. Devoted, cherishing and cherished wife of the late Lawrence Feinberg. Devoted mother of Paul Feinberg & Linda Alwitt. Beloved grandmother of Karyn and Daniel Feinberg, Josh and Philip Alwitt, and great-grandmother
 FRIEDMAN-Nathalie. We mourn the passing of our beloved board member, Nathalie Friedman. Beneath her modest demeanor was a woman of great strength and dignity, a person of powerful intellect. She accomplished much in her lifetime and garnered only friends and admirers along the way. We shall
 HIRSHON-Helen Raiss. Died on October 7, 2001 at home after a long illness. She was the widow of the late John Raiss and of the late Walter Hirshon. She was born in Seattle, WA, resided in NYC for many years, and was a longtime resident of Sands Point, New York. Beloved mother of Linda de Sp
 KASS-Eleanor. Of Bal Harbour, FL, passed away Sunday, October 7, 2001. She was the devoted and loving wife of the late Julius Kass, mother of Emme Pedinielli and Stephen Kass, mother-in-law of Joan and Etienne, grandmother of Andy, Jeff, Jimmy, Laura, Dominique, Daniele, and Jean-Pierre, an
 LAMBERT-Mab. The Board of Directors and the Staff of Grosvenor Neighborhood House Inc. mourn the loss of their Associate Member Mab Lambert. Mab was an active member of the Board for over 30 years. She totally believed in the difference Grosvenor's programs made to families on the Upper Wes
 LIPARI-Diane T. Age 42, Missing at the site of the World Trade Center tragedy. Formerly of Fairview, NJ. Diane was Senior Vice President of Carr Futures. Beloved wife of Edward Tighe. Devoted daughter of Lorraine Gardella and Vincent Lipari. Dear sister of Joseph and Michael Lipari, Susan K
 RISCO NELSON-Ginger. Died September 11, 2001 in the tragic event at the World Trade Center. Ginger, beloved wife and companion to William Nelson, was a Senior Vice President at Fred F. Alger Management, Inc. Ginger leaves her devoted mother Mary Caggiano-Malfi and three brothers, John, Jose
 RUTH-Edith Volin, 86. New York City has lost one of its most exuberant supporters. Youthful and seemingly ageless, Grandma earned her Bachelor's Degree in Art History from Hunter College at age 81, climbed the Grand Canyon at 75, and worked on Wall Street until age 84. She is a role model f
 SCHLANGER-Joan. Age 64. Died at home late on October 8, 2001, of colon cancer. Survived by her husband Michael; her mother Shirley; her children Steven, Margo, Karen & Daniel; her grandchildren Harry and Leila; and her brother and sister Robert and Arlene. Her good counsel and humor lit our
 SPOFFORD-Margaret W. ''Zee''. Died peacefully at home in her 97th year. Lifelong resident of New York and Fishers Island. She is survived by her four children, Nancy Yerkes, Nick Spofford, Peggy Benkard and John Spofford, her brother Shaw Walker, 13 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
 SYMANSKI - WEISBLOOM - Ingrid, 39. Born in Chicago. Tragically on September 11. Survived by her children Linee, Molly and Hannah. Parents Geoffry and Lynn Davis.       
 ARYE-Leonora. Passed away peacefully October 8, 2001. Beloved and loving wife of Leonard for more than 47 years. We never stopped laughing. Loving and adored mother of Larry, Lowell and Lane. Loving mother-in-law of Linda & grandmother of Mollie. A gifted sculptor and writer, who was too mo
 BERGMANN - Patricia Beverly Bull. Age 78, of Hopkinton, Massachusetts, formerly of Manhasset, NY, died Sunday in Leonard Morse Hospital, Natick, MA, as a result of injuries she sustained in an automobile accident September 21, in Wellesley, MA. Born in Brooklyn, NY, she was raised in West O
 DELAZZERO - Elizabeth, 85. Passed away on September 8, 2001 after a brief illness. She and her husband Robert were long time residents of Scarsdale. She is survived by her son Vincent, daughter Steffanie Belcher and Margery Arnheim, her sister Edith Celestino. She had 5 grandchildren and se
 KRIEBLE-Nancy. The trustees and staff of the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme, Connecticut wish to express our deep sorrow at the passing of our friend Nancy Krieble, whose service as a trustee of this institution since 1974 has been without compare. Her personal qualities-selfless gene
 OLSEN-Alma. Died peacefully at home on October 9, 2001. She was the devoted and loving wife of the late Irving Olsen & loving mother of five children, 11 grandchildren and eleven great grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 11AM on October 12 at Trinity Lutheran Church, 4th Avenu
 PENDLER-Betty. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and friends of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, NYC Chapter, mourn the passing of Betty Pendler, a good friend, a former member of the Board of Directors and professional. She was committed to people with disabilit
 PUNIE-Pauline Sophie (London). Of Sunrise, Florida, formerly of Laurelton, N.Y. Peacefully on October 5, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Iris Schornstein and the late Joan Ribler. Loving grandmother of Lori (Ronald) Seitenbach, Lawrence (Rebecca) Rib
 REOPELL-Ola Smith. Of Royalston, MA, on October 6, 2001 at age 77 at Brigham-Women's Hospital, Boston. Beloved wife of William R. Reopell, she was a native of Arkansas who became a loyal Wall Streeter and a quintessential ''New Yorker''. She loved the City for its art, theatre, music and es
 RISCO NELSON-Ginger. Died September 11, 2001 in the tragic event at the World Trade Center. Ginger, beloved wife and companion to William Nelson, was a Senior Vice President at Fred F. Alger Management, Inc. Ginger leaves her devoted mother Mary Caggiano-Malfi and three brothers, John, Jose
 SPOFFORD-Margaret W. ''Zee''. Died peacefully at home in her 97th year. Lifelong resident of New York and Fishers Island. She is survived by her four children, Nancy Yerkes, Nick Spofford, Peggy Benkard and John Spofford, her brother Shaw Walker, 13 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
 STYLER-Dorothy. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and friends of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, NYC Chapter, grieve the passing of Dorothy Styler, whose commitment to improving the lives of people with mental retardation and developmental disabilities is legend
 The statuesque performer who won fame as Dagmar, a dumb-as-a-fox blonde on one of television's first late-night shows, died on Tuesday at her home in Ceredo, W.Va. She was 79. She was born Virginia Ruth Egnor in nearby Huntington and was renamed Jenny Lewis when she came to New York
 ARYE-Leonora. Passed away peacefully October 8, 2001. Beloved and loving wife of Leonard for more than 47 years. We never stopped laughing. Loving and adored mother of Larry, Lowell and Lane. Loving mother-in-law of Linda & grandmother of Mollie. A gifted sculptor and writer, who was too mo
 BODENHEIMER-Margot. On October 9, 2001. Survived by her son, Dr. Ronald (Hildegard), grandchildren, David & Miriam. Graveside services 10:30 AM at Beth El Cemetery, Washington, NJ. Contributions to Jewish Home Foundation, 2021 S. Winton Road, Rochester, New York 14618.       
 GINN-Irene. Irene passed away, peacefully, October 10, at Arbor Hospice, Ann Arbor, Michigan, surrounded by her family. Burial services will be private. Irene ''Gave it the good fight''. She was my companion-beautiful, kind, considerate and loving-a constant joy. She loved life, and gave th
 GREENSTONE-Myra. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Myra Greenstone, an esteemed member, and extend to her beloved husband, Jay, and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 KAUFMAN-Renee. Beloved wife of the late Sigfried and sister of Gertrude Lobbenberg, died peacefully on October 9, 2001. Her family will miss her deeply.       
 MERROW-Margaret Lord. Died October 9, 2001. Wife of John Griswold Merrow. Mother of Marty Wilson, John Merrow, Hattie Simpson, Rob, George and Jim Merrow. Grandmother and greatgrandmother of 16. She will be missed forever by many of us. Griswold Merrow       
 NIZZARDINI-Adelaide. Of Bronx, on Wednesday, October 10, 2001. Beloved wife of Anthony. Survived by son Robert. Cherished sister of Howard Hurwitz. Adored aunt of Esther Wertlieb, Miriam Shapiro, Amy Thau and their families. Grandmother of four, great grandmother of four. Loving sister-inla
 NOVAK-Judith Iris. Age 58 died October 8, 2001 at home after a long, gallant and arduous battle with lung cancer. Devoted daughter of the late Leon H. and Helen Novak. Beloved sister of Ronald and Rose Novak. An inspiring and courageous mother of Vanessa (Joe Kmetz) of Bozeman, Montana and 
 SACKS-Anne. Died October 9, 2001 at the age of 88. Widow of Louis Sacks. Mother of Henry Sacks, Rebecca Sacks Mansdorf, and Victor Sacks. Grandmother of Lucy and Nick Mansdorf. A singularly energetic, independent and modern woman, she found her calling bestowing hospitality as the proprieto
 SOWANDE-Mildred B. 10 days before her 92nd birthday, died on September 29, 2001 of multiple organ failure after a long illness. Talented Musician and Dedicated Educator. The only child of Joseph and Anna Etta Marshall. Beloved mother of Beverly Folasade Sowande and Leanne Adeyola Sowande. D
 ARYE-Leonora. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Leonard, her children Larry, Lane and Lowell, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton 
 BERNSTEIN-Elma, 90. Died September 28. A lifelong advocate for social justice. Preceded in death by her husband, Milton. Beloved mother of Stanley Bernstein and Judith Fischer. Devoted sister of Renee McGehee. Memorial service Saturday, November 10, 11AM, 140 Cadman Plaza West, Brooklyn, NY
 CROLL-Irma. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member Irma Croll. Irma and her late husband Abe had been members since 1951. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Bernard S
 GREENSTONE-Myra S. Quietly pased away on October 10, 2001 after a courageous battle with cancer, leaving her cherished husband Jay, her beloved children Michael and Amy, Howard and Brigette, Daniel and Jessica, Scott and Laura, and her beloved grandchildren Jason, Rachel, Justin, Joshua, Br
 JOSEPH-Inga. Died October 9 from injuries sustained during the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center. She leaves behind family and friends in her native Berlin and in New York City. A New Yorker for over 3 decades, she revelled in the great music of a great city. Services Saturday 7
 KATZ-May Miller. Friend, teacher, mentor. She will be fondly remembered by all who knew her. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved son, William, and his wife, Susan. Richard & Cynthia Zirinsky       
 LLOYD-Bianca. On October 11, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Julianne and Rafi David, and George and Illana Lloyd. Cherished grandmother of Liron, Daniella, Reuben, Shachar, Elazar and Tal. Devoted daughter of the late Maks and Zofia Stein. Dear sister of the late Jac
 NATELSON-Bernice. On October 10, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Vincent. Cherished mother of Anne and the late Mark. Loving sister of Steve and Edna Kornberg. She will always be remembered for her kind heart, generous spirit and loving nature.       
 NOVAK-Judith Iris. Age 58 died October 8, 2001 at home after a long, gallant and arduous battle with lung cancer. Devoted daughter of the late Leon H. and Helen Novak. Beloved sister of Ronald and Rose Novak. An inspiring and courageous mother of Vanessa (Joe Kmetz) of Bozeman, Montana and 
 PARKER-Elinor M. Died Wilmington, DE, October 9, 2001, age 95. Former resident New York City and Morristown, New Jersey. BA in English Lit. Bryn Mawr College. Forty-two years with Charles Scribner's Sons, retiring as Editor, VP & Director. Author of 16 books including ''Cooking For One'', a
 CLARK-Winifred Wood. October 11, 2001. Sarah Lawrence College records with sorrow the death of Winifred Wood Clark, devoted alumna (Class of 1932) and trustee of the College for over 40 years. She was a woman of extraordinary grace, widsom, and dignity. We will miss her greatly, and extend 
 CROLL-Irma Lowenstein. Dearly beloved wife of the late Abram Steinhardt Croll. Dear mother of Elinor Jane Croll Wolfe. Darling grandmother of Cathi, Joanne, Steven (Melissa), and Roger (Diane). Adored great-grandmother of Ashley, Caitlin, Michael and Sarah. Funeral private. Contributions to
 GILMORE-Naomi. The National Treasury Employees Union notes with deep sorrow the death of one of our most effective and beloved leaders, Naomi Gilmore, former president of NTEU Chapter 99. Naomi's gifts of humor, intelligence, wisdom, warmth and kindness complimented her unrelenting pursuit 
 GOLIN-Helen Herman on October 10, 2001 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Loving wife of Albert Golin and mother of Nancy Wiadro and Jane Strom. Also survived by four grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Funeral Service Sunday at Temple Beth El, 350 Roxbury Road, Stamford, CT at 1:30 PM. Bu
 JOSEPH-Inga. Died October 9 from injuries sustained during the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center. She leaves behind family and friends in her native Berlin and in New York City. A New Yorker for over 3 decades, she revelled in the great music of a great city. Services Saturday 7
 KORN-Lee. Passed away on October 11th, 2001, age 95. Widow of the late Irving Korn with whom she shared 69 years of wonderful marriage. Survived by her cherished children, Sheldon and Irys Korn, and Robert and Joan Korn, and by her beloved grandchildren and great grandchildren, Ilene and Da
 NOVAK-Judith Iris. Age 58 died October 8, 2001 at home after a long, gallant and arduous battle with lung cancer. Devoted daughter of the late Leon H. and Helen Novak. Beloved sister of Ronald and Rose Novak. An inspiring and courageous mother of Vanessa (Joe Kmetz) of Bozeman, Montana and 
 PARKER-Elinor M. Died Wilmington, DE, October 9, 2001, age 95. Former resident New York City and Morristown, New Jersey. BA in English Lit. Bryn Mawr College. Forty-two years with Charles Scribner's Sons, retiring as Editor, VP & Director. Author of 16 books including ''Cooking For One'', a
 SAMKOFF-Claire. The family of Lila and Harold Breiter mourns the loss of Claire Samkoff; beloved sister of Lila Breiter; loving aunt of Alan and Diane, Jeanne and Ken and Linda and Joe; grand-aunt of Russell and Randee, Abbe and Jeffrey, Stacy and Eric, Jennifer, Meredith and Joshua; great 
 SISKOPOULOS - Muriel (nee Rosenblatt). Victim and heroine of the World Trade Center disaster. She was a secretary in the research department of Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. Beloved wife of Mark. Devoted mother of Thomas, Donna, Terri and Laura. Cherished grandmother of James and Michael.
 SMALL-Gertrude. Of New Rochelle, on October 12, 2001. Wife of Dr. Louis A. Small. Mother and mother-in-law of Robert & Carla Small and Stanley and Amy Small. Grandmother of Samantha, Gabrielle and her husband Mark Tullman, Katie and Michael. Great grandmother of Anya. A graveside service wi
 SMITH-Margaret. On October 11. Cherished mother of Christine and Carl Smith. Mother-in-law of Lee (Sue) Smith. Loving sister-in-law of Josephine Seitel. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Carl H. Smith. Adored aunt of Karen Seitel, Joan Ackerstein, Louise Schneider, and the late Alison Smith. Bel
 SOLOMON-Naomi Leah. Died September 11 at the World Trade Center disaster. Formerly of Chase Bank and Vice President of Callixa. She was well known and respected throughout the financial community. Naomi was cherished and will forever be missed by her loving parents, Dr. Herbert and Lottie S
 TEICH-Roberta. Our condolences to Edith and Susan on the loss of her daughter/sister. Roberta will be remembered & loved forever. Services on Monday, October 15, 9:30 AM at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, Great Neck, NY. The Finkelstein Family TEICH-Roberta. Our deepest sympathies ar
 VARE-Beatrice. On October 12, 2001, at age 83. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Rosenblum M.D. and Arthur Vare. Loving mother of Margaret Hammerschlag, M.D. and Elizabeth Rosenblum. Adoring grandmother of Zoe Hammerschlag. Devoted daughter of the late Charles H. and Rose Breitbart. Dear si
 Jacqueline T. Babbin, a television producer who won an Emmy Award for ''Sybil,'' a 1976 TV drama, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 80. The cause was cancer, said Shirley E. Herz, her longtime friend and former publicist. Ms. Babbin produced dozens of shows, 
 BURNS-Ethel Dagaberta Holland Cherry (nee Bransome) born February 4, 1911 to Emil and Isabelle Bransome after a long courageous battle with Alzheimers disease passed into glory on Sunday, September 30 at 1:02 PM. The death of her father forced her to leave school at 14 to support her mother
 CROLL-Irma Lowenstein. Dearly beloved wife of the late Abram Steinhardt Croll. Dear mother of Elinor Jane Croll Wolfe. Darling grandmother of Cathi, Joanne, Steven (Melissa), and Roger (Diane). Adored great-grandmother of Ashley, Caitlin, Michael and Sarah. Funeral private. Contributions to
 DIAMOND-Estelle (nee Manilla). Loving wife of the late Benjamin ''Ted'' Diamond. Beloved mother of Raphael (Linda) and Michael (Debbie). Devoted sister and best friend to Adele Weiner. Adored Nanna of Jonathan (Donna), Bonnie, Joan, Neil (Barbara), Susan (James) and Debra. And cherished gre
 GETZENDANNER-Susan M. On September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. She was Vice President at Fiduciary Trust Company. Susan is survived by her parents, Betty Ann and Joe Getzendanner, formerly of Shaker Heights, OH, now of Newtown, PA; brother Thomas Getzendanner, of Summit, NJ; sisters
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., NYC. Interment services private
 GREENBERG-Barbara (Smedley), R.N. Age 59, of Stratford, Connecticut, and New York City, beloved wife of attorney Stephen H. Greenberg, died Friday, October 12, 2001, in New York Presbyterian Hospital. Mrs. Greenberg was born in Mt. Vernon, NY, January 25, 1942, daughter of the late Edward a
 GREENSTONE-Myra. The officers and members of the Boards of Governors of The Jewish Home and Rehabilitation Center and The Jewish Home at Rockleigh note with profound sorrow the passing of our Past President and steadfast supporter Myra Greenstone. We extend our deepest sympathies to her hus
 JOSEPH-Inga. Died October 9 from injuries sustained during the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center. She leaves behind family and friends in her native Berlin and in New York City. A New Yorker for over 3 decades, she revelled in the great music of a great city. Services were held 
 LEVY-Beatrice, 82. Died Oct 8. She worked for New York State Unemployment for over 30 years. She is survived by her brothers, Robert (Renee), Leighton (Jennie) and six nieces and nephews.       
 MARSH-Dorothy. Passed peacefully on October 12. She was 91. Caring and loving mother of Jordan, Kenneth and Libby. Adoring grandmother of Ali, Alec and Matthew. Beloved wife of the late William. Wonderful friend to many. A woman of extraordinary wisdom, grace and humor. Graveside service Mo
 MERROW-Margaret Lord. Died October 9, 2001. Wife of John Griswold Merrow. Mother of Marty Wilson, John Merrow, Hattie Simpson, Rob, George and Jim Merrow. Grandmother and greatgrandmother of 16. She will be missed forever by many of us. Griswold Merrow       
 MILLER-KATZ-May Forbes (nee Himoff). Died peacefully at home on October 10. Her son William Forbes was with her. She leaves stepsons Elliott and Jeffrey Katz, nieces Susan and Bonnie, nephews Rick and Alan, grandchildren Ben and Emma, and many grand nephews. For her family and numerous frie
 NOVAK-Judith Iris. Age 58 died October 8, 2001 at home after a long, gallant and arduous battle with lung cancer. Devoted daughter of the late Leon H. and Helen Novak. Beloved sister of Ronald and Rose Novak. An inspiring and courageous mother of Vanessa (Joe Kmetz) of Bozeman, Montana and 
 O'CONNOR-Diana J. (nee Vega). With deep sorrow, we mourn the passing of our dear Diana, who was taken from us tragically in the attack on the WTC on September 11, 2001. Beloved and devoted wife of Bill, devoted and caring mother to Amanda Rose O'Connor. Cherished daughter of Maria and the l
 PURO-Gertrude. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the loss of our good friend Gertrude Puro, widow of the late Lou Puro. We extend our condolences to her daughters, their husband and all her grandchildren. Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President Martin M. Feuer, M.D. Associate Chai
 ROSEN-Miriam. On October 12. Loving aunt of Richard Glick. Close and dedicated to her cousins. Retired New York City school teacher. Donations can be made in her name to the U.J.A. Funeral service, 11:30 AM, Sunday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 RUBIN-Sarah Orwasher. On October 12, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Dear stepmother of Roslyn Ressler and Harriet Krant. Devoted sister of Rose and Louis Orwasher. Loving grandmother of Michael and Steven Ressler, Robert Krant, Judy Kadylak, Jill Perkins, Dale Scul
 TOLL-Sylvia (nee Steinberg), on October 12, 2001, of Elkins Park, PA. Wife of the late Albert A. Toll, mother of Bruce E. (Robbi) Toll and Robert I. (Jane) Toll. Grandmother of Laurie & Jeff, Michelle & Billy, Deborah & Jon, Wendy & Doug, Elizabeth & Len, Rachel, Jennifer, Jacob and Joshua 
 VARE-Beatrice. On October 12, 2001, at age 83. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Rosenblum M.D. and Arthur Vare. Loving mother of Margaret Hammerschlag, M.D. and Elizabeth Rosenblum. Adoring grandmother of Zoe Hammerschlag. Devoted daughter of the late Charles H. and Rose Breitbart. Dear si
 Barbara L. Kaiser, a former judge of Westchester County Family Court, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. A former resident of Westchester, she lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Born in Brooklyn, she earned a law degree at Columbia University 
 ABRAHAM-Sophie Kay. Passed peacefully the evening of October 13. Beloved wife of Stanley of blessed memory. Mother of Stuart and JoAnn Abraham and Yoram and Marlene Rakover, grandmother of Eric, Regina, Donald, Jamie, Garrett, and Ryan. Also survived by her sister Belle Goldstein and her ki
 BROWN-Mary Thacher. Age 90. Died peacefully on October 13, 2001. Preceded in death by her husband Daniel N. Brown. Loving mother of Cynthia B. Lloyd, grandmother of Emily D. Lloyd, sister of Thomas Thacher and the late Sarah T. Storm, and beloved aunt and friend to many. Mary Brown was an a
 EASTON-Eva. On October 13, 2001, at the age of 90. Former teacher at Wadleigh J.H.S. in NYC and then at John Peter Tetard J.H.S. in the Bronx until her retirement in 1968. Beloved mother of Peter and mother-in-law of Joan. Cherished grandmother of Robert and Robin. Great-grandmother of Alec
 GETZENDANNER-Susan M. The Blue Hill Troupe, Ltd. notes with tremendous sadness the untimely loss on September 11 of our long time member and former president. Citizen of the world and stalwart Trouper for 34 years, she will be sorely missed. We will join her many friends and colleagues at a
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., NYC. Interment services private
 GOLDFELD-Bertha. In her 88th year. Widow of the late Seymour Goldfeld. Mother of Arnold Ross and Elinor Wharton. Grandmother and great-grandmother. Services Monday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GORDON-Sandra (Flaumenhaft). Of Fort Lee, NJ, on October 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Melvin. Devoted mother of Rhonda and Jeffrey. Proud grandmother of Marissa. Sadly missed by Harvey, her family and friends. Services were held at Wein & Wein Memorial Chapels, 402 Park Street, Hacken
 MAHEDY-John J. Native of Edgerworthstown, Co. Longford, Ireland, former employee of American Airlines, died on October 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Peggy (nee Donohoe); dear father of Mary, JoAnn O'Rourke and her husband Bobby, Eileen Ruggiero and her husband Mike, Janet Burgon and her husb
 VARE-Beatrice. On October 12, 2001, at age 83. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Rosenblum M.D. and Arthur Vare. Loving mother of Margaret Hammerschlag, M.D. and Elizabeth Rosenblum. Adoring grandmother of Zoe Hammerschlag. Devoted daughter of the late Charles H. and Rose Breitbart. Dear si
 ABRAMSON-Faye. We extend our sincerest condolences to Diane Largman and Lois Wysocki on the loss of their beloved mother. Faye was a woman of valor. Together with her late husband Irving, she was a Silver Founder and actively supported the Neonatology Department. May Diane, Lois and the ent
 BRODY-Ethel. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Ethel Brody, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 BROWN-Mary Thacher. Age 90. Died peacefully on October 13, 2001. Preceded in death by her husband Daniel N. Brown. Loving mother of Cynthia B. Lloyd, grandmother of Emily D. Lloyd, sister of Thomas Thacher and the late Sarah T. Storm, and beloved aunt and friend to many. Mary Brown was an a
 GOETZ-Ruth. The Officers and Members of Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the passing of Ruth Goetz. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 HARRISON-Leah G. (nee Goldmann). October 14, 2001. Wife of the late Paul P. She was 91 and retired after 37 years of teaching in NYC public schools. Mother of Elaine H. (Ernest) Cohen of Upper Darby, PA. Also survived by four grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. Sister of Pearl Gold
 ISRAELSON-Fritzi. On October 14th, 2001. Forever young Fritzi, widow of beloved attorney Harold G. Israelson, adored mother of Susan Israelson and Peter Israelson, gorgeous grandchildren Harry and Ally, best friend of Harold Leventhal, died quickly, peacefully. She had a great run. We will 
 KALINS-Gertrude Gil. Passed peacefully October 15. Survived by two sisters, Gillie and Gail, two daughters, Dorothy and Marjorie. She leaves behind a world captured in her art. She will be deeply missed. The beauty of her life continues. Memorial service Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Stre
 KERMAN-Faye. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Faye Kerman. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Samuel, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 LEE-Linda C., 34. While attending a conference at the World Trade Center in New York City, September 11, 2001. Beloved daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Myong H. Lee of Silver Spring, Maryland, and sister of Eddie S. Lee. Cherished by her many friends. Linda was a 1990 graduate of the University of 
 MASS-Tillie. Town and Village Synagogue - Tifereth Israel, mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband, Murray Mass and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Lewis Freedman, President       
 MATCH-Dorothy. On October 14, 2001. Beloved wife of Melvin for fifty-eight years. Mother of Ellen Koppelman of New York and of Risa Altman of Adventura, FL. Proud grandmother of Mitch and Jordan Kaplan, Devon and Dayna Norwich. She will be sadly missed by her sister Fran Seligman and brothe
 ROCHKIND-Hilda (Hamerling), 92. Died at home in Manhattan on October 14, 2001, after a brief illness. The sixth of seven siblings, she emigrated from Poland in 1920 and lived in New York City for her entire life, except for a 20-year period ending in 1995, when she lived in West Palm Beach,
 RUBEL-Rachel Geist. Died on October 14, 2001. She is survived by her husband Malcolm Rubel, her five beloved children: Sasha, Nicholas, Thomas, Nina & Tessa, by her loving mother Eileen Finletter and by her brother Stephen Geist. Private burial in Bar Harbor, ME. Memorial service in New Yor
 SAITZ-Betty (nee Russak). Of North Shore Towers and formerly Jericho, died in her home early Sunday morning. Beloved widow of Samuel, loving mother of Phyllis Saitz, Lisa Saitz-Sokol (Larry) & granddaughter Samantha. Services were held Monday. Shiva will be at the Sokol house Tuesday throug
 VARE-Beatrice. The Board of the Central Queens YM & YWHA expresses its profound condolences to Margaret Hammerschlag and Elizabeth Rosenblum, beloved daughters, on the passing of Beatrice Vare, our esteemed Board Member for over 18 years. For eight decades, Beatrice carried the torch of soc
 Ruth Goetz, a playwright who collaborated with her husband, Augustus Goetz, on ''The Heiress'' and other plays, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. She was 93 and had been living in the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood. ''The Heiress,'' an adaptation of the Henry James no
 BURNS-Kathleen A., 48. Of Staten Island, NY on September 11, 2001 as a victim of the attack on the World Trade Center in New York City. Kathy was born on Staten Island where she lived most of her life. She was employed for more than 15 years by Fiduciary Trust Company International, most re
 DANNENBERG - Janice Van Raalte. Loving wife of Edgar for sixty-five years. She maintained courage and strength valiantly despite many misfortunes in her lifetime. Sleep Well, My Feisty Love. Services private as she ordered. If desired memorial contributions can be made to Partnership for Ca
 EMANUEL-Rita. We mourn the loss of one of our esteemed founding members and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 FISCHLER-Sandra Zook. Beloved wife of William. Devoted mother of Sabrina Zook Brotman and Julianne Zook, adoring grandmother of Matthew and Alex Brotman, Gabriel and Daniel Fischler. Sandra participated in the NYC Marathon for many years and she proudly ran with a runner from the Achilles C
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. Interment services 
 GREENFIELD-Helen E. Died peacefully on October 16, 2001. The loving and much beloved wife of the late Benjamin; proud, devoted mother of Jeff Greenfield and Janet Elmo; delighting in their life partners, Dena Sklar and Lou Elmo. Loving grandmother of Marc Elmo, and Casey and Dave Greenfield
 KRAINMAN-Florence P. Peacefully on October 16th at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Herman Krainman. Loving mother of Rhoda, Luise and Richard. Adoring grandmother of Randy, Kathy, Elizabeth, Adam & David. Doting great grandmother of Jocelyn, Seth, Katie and Alex. She will be missed by all 
 ROTH-Faye, (nee Neuwirth), 91. Passed away October 14, 2001. A lifetime New Yorker and independent spirit, she charted her own course. Wife of the late Larry Roth, beloved mother of her three sons, Richard, Kenn (Uzi Ran), and Paul (Yuval Ron), her daughters-in-law, Roberta, Erit and Rachel
 BRENNER-Erma, 1911-2001. An author and educator with a special interest in children's play, sends her last adieux to the many relatives, friends, and colleagues who loved and admired her and to the much larger number of children who profited from her efforts on their behalf. Erma was discov
 CARR-Dorislee Kadis. Devoted daughter of the late Jean and Isadore Kadis. Beloved mother of the late Susan Carr Radice, sister of the late Buddy Kadis and grandmother of Julia Radice. Service 10AM Friday, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her memory to Ch
 GREENFIELD-Helen E. Died peacefully on October 16, 2001. The loving and much beloved wife of the late Benjamin; proud, devoted mother of Jeff Greenfield and Janet Elmo; delighting in their life partners, Dena Sklar and Lou Elmo. Loving grandmother of Marc Elmo, and Casey and Dave Greenfield
 HAMBURGER-Jakob L. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Gaby Friedman upon the loss of her father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 KAISER-Barbara. The staff and Board of the American Civil Liberties Union note with great sadness the passing of Judge Barbara Kaiser on September 26th. Judge Kaiser was a dedicated civil libertarian and a passionate advocate for women's rights. She began her formal affiliation with the ACL
 MATCH-Dorothy. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Dorothy Match, beloved mother of Ellen Koppelman, a dedicated leader of UJA-Federation and an active member of our Women's Campaign. Ellen's husband, Murray, a cherished
 PUTTERMAN - Thelma. Distin guished Officer of the Flatbush and Shaare Torah Jewish Center and well known interior designer. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Dear mother of Marc, Seth and Jules. Adored grandmother of Rita, Victoria, Laurence, Jared, Harald, Carl and Aaron. She will be missed 
 RUBENSTEIN-Dorothy F. State of Israel Bonds mourns the passing of Dorothy F. Rubenstein of Columbus, Ohio, a devoted leader and a passionate supporter of Israel. She was a member of the National Executive Board of Israel Bonds, a past chair of the Central Ohio Israel Bonds Women's Division 
 SCHNEBERG-Esther. Deceased October 16th, died as she wished, at her new home in Portland, OR. She was a valiant survivor of cancer, but she could shadowbox no longer. She will be remembered as a champion of the disenfranchised-a teacher and guidance counselor at Thomas Jefferson High School
 SHAPIRO-Caralyn Anne. On October 13, 2001. Age 46. Beloved wife of DeWitt Nelson and devoted mother of Lani Anna. She leaves her parents David and Madelyn, her brothers Peter and Joseph & many friends. Memorial service October 21, 2001 at 1PM at the Miller/Schoen residence, 267 Mossy Brook 
 SHONBRUN-Margaret Lucretia Thomson. A longtime resident of NYC and a native of Gainesville, FL. died on October 3, 2001. She was 75. Ms. Shonbrun was an award-winning poet, playwright and journalist. She is survived by five children and 3 grandchildren. Donations may be made to the MS Socie
 VARE-Beatrice. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with sadness the death of Beatrice Vare, a member of the Class of 1941. An esteemed alumna and family counselor. She was a generous supporter of the School and the Unive
 ZELENKO - Carole. Of Lake Worth, passed away October 15. She is survived by loving husband Rubin (Ruby); devoted sons, Cliff and Eric Zelenko; adoring daughters, Jill (Bob) Oberstien, Jill (Michael) Kuller, Joy (David) Perlow; Grandchildren, Keith, Evan, Jennie, Amy, Sammy, Marty, and Cyndi
 Etta Jones, a great and permanently underrated jazz singer who for three decades toured constantly with her musical partner, the saxophonist Houston Person, died on Tuesday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 72. The cause was cancer, said Joe Fields, the manager of her record
 BOLOGNESE-Marie (nee Sokol). On October 17th, 2001, in her home in Brooklyn. She is survived by her husband, Fiorello (Rocky); her daughters, Christine and Karen; her sons-in-law, Brahim and Michael; her grandchildren, Carissa and Michael. Visiting will be at McLaughlin and Sons, 97th Stree
 CARR-Dorislee Kadis. Devoted daughter of the late Jean and Isadore Kadis. Beloved mother of the late Susan Carr Radice, sister of the late Buddy Kadis and grandmother of Julia Radice. Service 10AM Friday, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91 St. and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her memory to Ch
 COURIC-Emily. The 92nd Street Y Board and Staff mourn the passing of Emily Couric, the beloved sister of our dear friend, Katie, and loving aunt to Carrie and Ellie. Our hearts and prayers are also with Emily's husband, Dr. George A. Beller, her sons, Ray and Jeff, her brother and sister, J
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. Interment services 
 JOHNSON-Frances Claudet. Died peacefully at her home on Wednesday, October 17, 2001, during sunset, her favorite time of day. She was the beloved wife of the late Worthington Johnson. The daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Henry Hayman Claudet of Ottawa & Victoria, Canada, Mrs. Johnson was a
 LOEWENBERG-Anne Marie Cassirer. Wife of the late Dr. Walter Loewenberg. Beloved mother of Marianne Davis, and Gerhard Loewenberg and wife Ina. Grandmother of Ted and Andy Dimond, Deborah Loewenberg Ball and Michael Loewenberg. Also survived by eight great grandchildren. Remembered with love
 SATTERFIELD-Jane. October 18, 2001. Beloved wife of Henry Clement Satterfield. Devoted mother of Samuel and Stuart. Loving daughter of Tom Dew and the late Jean. Loving sister of Tom, Joe and John. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Saturday October 20, 3:30 PM
 TURBERG-Dr. Jessie, died on Wednesday, October 17, 2001, in Glen Cove. She was in her mid 80's. She was married to the late William Cohen. She is survived by her daughter, Nina Cohen-Ryan, her son-in-law, Philip D. Ryan, and her three grandchildren, Rebecca, Sean and Ben. Born in the time w
 VIRDEN-Lillian Sudler. Born in Sussex County Delaware, died on October 17, 2001 in her 108th year. Devoted wife of the late Prospere Shelton Virden, loving mother of Ellen Virden White and the late Prospere S. Virden, Jr. and Suzanne V. Patterson. She is survived also by 13 grandchildren an
 WITTNER-Florence. Beloved wife of David; loving mother of Honorable Bonnie Wittner and Ilene S. Wittner of New York City; cherished sister of Conrad Cohen, Anne Gainen and Frances Goldberg. She was a beautiful and gracious lady. Graveside services at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY
 STEEL-Courtney. The soul takes flight to the world that is invisible but there arriving she is sure of bliss & forever dwells in Paradise.       
 BANKER-Allison Jane. On October 19, 2001 at age 19. Beloved daughter of Amy Beth Cohen Banker and Stephen Banker. Step daughter of Susan Shankman Banker. Cherished sister of Meredith Elaine and Benjamin Abraham. Granddaughter of Arline and Dorothy. Niece of Roger, Steven, Michael and Rhea. 
 CLOUGH-Rosa Trillo. Passed away in West Palm Beach June 28, 2001. Born 1906 in New York City, B.A. in Italian from Hunter College, M.A. and a Ph.D. in Italian from Columbia University. Professor of Italian at Hunter College from 1928 to 1956, headed Modern Language Department of Finch Colle
 FISHMAN-Max. The National Council of Jewish Women, Brooklyn Section Board of Directors, extends our heartfelt sorrow to Rose Fishman (a past president) and family, on the passing of her husband Max. Sylvia Ladner, Dolores Measer Co-Presidents       
 KIRSHNER - Natalie B. Died peacefully on October 19th, 2001 at the age of 81 at her home with her family by her side. Beloved wife of Herbert for 61 years. Sister of Felice. Devoted mother of Patricia Lowy, Peter Kirshner, Kathy Matson and Jon Kirshner. Adored grandmother of Andrew Rusoff, 
 REISS-Clara. A patron of the arts. Died October 19, 2001 at her residence on Park Avenue. Born August 29th, 1904, married to Professor Frederick Reiss, M.D. who was a world renowned specialist in tropical dermatology. She is survived by her nieces Maria Gero and Suzanne Palocz. Service Sund
 SATTERFIELD-Jane. October 18, 2001. Beloved wife of Henry Clement Satterfield. Devoted mother of Samuel and Stuart. Loving daughter of Tom Dew and the late Jean. Loving sister of Tom, Joe and John. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Saturday October 20, 3:30 PM
 WEINSCHENKER-Tamara. On October 18, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Loving mother of Eve and her husband, Bob Paul; cherished grandmother of Jeremy Paul and his wife, Laurel Leff, and of Sarah Paul and her husband, Dr. Mark Nachamie; devoted great-grandmother of Jason 
 FREIBERG-Sylvia. 7/15/11-10/20/ 98. We miss her humor, her social conscience, her insights, her love. Life's not the same without her. The Family       
 Polly Rowles, an experienced character actress in theater and film whose most famous role was as Inspector No. 12 in a series of television commercials for Hanes underwear, died on Oct. 7 at a nursing home in Concord, N.H. She was 87. Mary Elizabeth Rowles, as she was named at her b
 CALLAGHAN - Kathryn Larkin. Died October 8, 2001. A native of New York City, she was 91. Survivors include her children, James Callaghan, Jacqueline Novellino, Patricia Hood, and Kathryn Dawson, her sister, Veronica Dwyer, 12 grandchildren, 9 great-grandchildren, and 18 nieces and nephews. 
 COMSUDI - Elizabeth. Passed away Monday, October 15th in Austin, Texas. She was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey, April 15, 1914 and spent much of her early youth in Lemnos, Greece returning to the U.S. in 1925 to live in New York. Upon retiring from the New York County Medical Society in 
 DANNENBERG - Janice Van Raalte. Loving wife of Edgar for sixty-five years. She maintained courage and strength valiantly despite many misfortunes in her lifetime. Sleep Well, My Feisty Love. Services private as she ordered. If desired memorial contributions can be made to Partnership for Ca
 DEMITZ-Carol K., 49. Senior Vice President, Chief Corporate Counsel and Secretary of Fiduciary Trust Company International, died September 11, 2001 during the attack on the World Trade Center. Ms. Demitz is survived by her husband Fred Brewer and their daughter Anne, brothers Woody, Charlie
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. Interment services 
 GREER-Suzanne Ruth (nee Marten). Died October 5th at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Her humor, intelligence, love of the Fine Arts and the game of bridge, and her friendship live on in her children and friends. Survived by loving children, Nancy, James and Paul, and grandchildren, Allison 
 KIRSHNER - Natalie B. Died peacefully on October 19th, 2001 at the age of 81 at her home with her family by her side. Beloved wife of Herbert for 61 years. Sister of Felice. Devoted mother of Patricia Lowy, Peter Kirshner, Kathy Matson and Jon Kirshner. Adored grandmother of Andrew Rusoff, 
 LYON-Elizabeth. Psychiatric social worker and housing restorer, died in New York on October 5. She was 89. Born in Cincinnati, Ms. Lyon served in the American Red Cross during World War II, received her MSW from Columbia University, and worked as a psychiatric social worker for the U.S. Arm
 MARCUS-Ina R. On October 19, 2001 at age 93. Wife of the late Albert C. Marcus. Survived by her children, Lorelle Phillips, Sydna Kelligrew and Bonnie Marcus. Also survived by 7 grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. Sister of Evelyn Paster, Abraham Rosenthal, Dorothy Shapiro and Nata
 MARKOWICZ-Guta. Wonderful friend, full of laugh and humor. My sympathy goes to her devoted, loving family. I mourn with them. Sylvia Nessa (Jerry) Ben-Asher       
 PERRY-Doreen Evans. Beloved wife of the late Marsden J. Perry, Jr., died suddenly on August 17, 2001 in NYC. A memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave., 1 W. 53rd St., Tuesday, October 23, at 3 PM. Friends may kindly make contributions in her memory to the Marsden and Do
 REISS-Clara. A patron of the arts. Died October 19, 2001 at her residence on Park Avenue. Born August 29th, 1904, married to Professor Frederick Reiss, M.D. who was a world renowned specialist in tropical dermatology. She is survived by her nieces Maria Gero and Suzanne Palocz. Service Sund
 SAMROCK-Hyla. Died at home on Friday, October 19, 2001. She was 84. Married for nearly 60 years to Victor Samrock, who passed away in 1995, she is survived by her children, Carl and Ellen; grandsons Gabriel and Steven; daughter-in-law Carol and other family members and friends. Born in Hart
 SESINOVA-Alena. On Sept. 11th, 2001 in the WTC. Taken from us physically but not spiritually. She will live on forever in our hearts and in our minds. Alena was an avid reader with a sharp intellect. She knew more and cared more about America than most natural born citizens. Alena's love fo
 SONABEND-Hilda. Beloved mother of David and Roslyn Sonabend and Ned and Marilyn Sonabend. Cherished grandmother of Erica and Martin Frederick, Sheila and Bill Lambert, Barbara Shields, Ellen and Vince Gorman, Andrew and Linda Sonabend, and Phyllis Sonabend of blessed memory. Adored great-gr
 WEDEEN-Pearl. Beloved mother and grandmother, died Tuesday, October 2, 2001 at age 93, in Tucson, AZ. She is survived by her daughter Toby Falk, grandchildren Lisa Asner and Daniel Falk, and niece Lucy Johnson.       
 WEINSCHENKER-Tamara. On October 18, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Loving mother of Eve and her husband, Bob Paul; cherished grandmother of Jeremy Paul and his wife, Laurel Leff, and of Sarah Paul and her husband, Dr. Mark Nachamie; devoted great-grandmother of Jason 
 ZOOK-FISCHLER-Sandra. The Board of Directors and staff of SHARE, self-help for breast and ovarian cancer, will miss our dearly beloved former President, Sandra Zook-Fischler. She was a guiding light, and an inspiration to all. Our heartfelt condolences goes to her family.       
 Lady Jean Rankin, who held an archaic job as a Woman of the Bedchamber to Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, for more than 40 years, died in Edinburgh on Oct. 3. She was 96. A kind of lady-in-waiting, a Woman of the Bedchamber attends to a queen's personal tasks, answers the majorit
 ABRAMSON-Harriet. 64, died in Boynton Beach, FL, on Saturday, October 20, of emphysema. She is survived by her beloved husband Arnold Abramson of Boynton Beach, FL, three children, Susan Corbelli of Oceanside, NY, Jeff Tollin of East Rockaway, NY, and Jarid Tollin of Riverside, CT, siblings
 BRENNER-Erma. A dear old friend whose buoyant nature gave my wife and me enduring pleasure over many decades of friendship. To Charlie, her devoted husband, my loving condolences. David Mayer       
 LIPSKY-Dorothy (nee Shospak). ''Bads,'' 89, died peacefully in her sleep at Parkway Hospital on Saturday, October 20. She is survived by her devoted husband of 65 years, Daniel, her two loving children, Ina and David, her three grandchildren, Julia, Daniel and Suzanne, and her brother Arnol
 PERRY-Doreen Evans. Beloved wife of the late Marsden J. Perry, Jr., died suddenly on August 17, 2001 in NYC. A memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave., 1 W. 53rd St., Tuesday, October 23, at 3 PM. Friends may kindly make contributions in her memory to the Marsden and Do
 PRESTON-Susan G. 70, October 20, 2001, at home in St. Simons Island, GA. Beloved mother of Diane P. Dolinsky, Carmel, IN, and Julie P. Kennedy, Oxford, MI. Cherished sister of Linda Goetz Holmes, New York and Shelter Island, NY. Devoted grandmother of William, Jamie and Jessica Kennedy and 
 SALOMON-Edna B. The Collegiate Chorale notes with profound sadness the passing of Edna B. Salomon. We thank her for generaous and long standing support of the Music Director's Chair, and express our condolences to her family. We will remember her in our music. Susan L. Baker, Chair Robert B
 FORDES-Dite M. (Aphrodite Fotiades, nee Michel). On October 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas. Devoted mother of William and George. Cherished mother-in-law of Taryn and Julia. Loving grandmother of Nicholas and Michael. Dear sister of George Michel. Loving aunt of Celia and Sophi
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. Interment services 
 HICKS-Claire Elizabeth McIntyre, 78, of Rumson. Died Saturday at Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank. She was a graduate of the Jersey City Medical Center, receiving her R.N. in 1944. She graduated from NYU School of Education in 1955. She was a participant in the Harvard University Nurses S
 MARQUSEE-Janet Morand, died on October 22nd, aged 69, peacefully at her home among her beloved family and her collection of beautiful art. She was an extraordinary wife, mother, sister, grandmother, friend and aunt. She was also a serious and original artist, an enthusiastic art-dealer, a s
 NUSSBAUM - Jacqueline Ruth (nee Cohen). Died October 21, after an illness. She is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Hittner, two daughters Debra Nussbaum Cohen and Laura Solomon, their husbands, Marc Cohen and Mark Solomon, and five grandchildren. Jacqueline was 62. She was a gracious, genero
 PROUTY-Helen Ellis Thorne, 87, of 88 Notch Hill Rd., North Branford, died Monday, October 22, 2001. She was the wife of Charles Newton Prouty. She was a nurse at Yale-New Haven Hospital and a founding trustee of Connecticut Hospice. Besides her husband, she leaves two daughters, Phebe Thorn
 SALOMON-Edna Barnes. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its beloved friend and benefactor, Edna Barnes Salomon. The wife of the Library's esteemed Chairman Emeritus, the late Richard B. Salomon, and mother of current Library Trustee Richard E. Salomon, Mrs. Salomon was
 SAMROCK-Hyla. Died at home on Friday, October 19. She was 84. Married for nearly 60 years to Victor Samrock, who died in 1995. She is survived by her children, Carl and Ellen; grandsons Gabriel and Steven; daughter-in-law Carol, and other family members and friends. Born in Hartford, CT, Hy
 SARNOFF-Barbara Hamilton. We mourn the loss of our beloved mother and grandmother, the beautiful Barbara, on October 22, 2001, at 94 years. She fought valiantly against Alzheimer's. Lately of Easton, PA, and previously of Westport, CT, and Palm Beach, FL, she leaves daughters, Elizabeth Bur
 SELTZER-Mollie H., of West Palm Beach, FL, passed away October 22. Predeceased by her husband, Sidney C. Seltzer. Graveside service Sunday, 11AM, Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, NY.       
 TRINKOFF-Lottie. Age 96. On October 22, 2001. Widow of Lew. Loving mother of Irwin and Burt and their spouses Maxine and Arline, who were like daughters. Devoted grandmother to Lloyd and Carole, Donna and Jan, Alexandra and Jeff, Paul and Grace, Joel, David and Laura. Wonderful great grandm
 ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., 59, on October 23, 2001. She is survived by her loving sister, Leni Goodman, and her adoring niece, Cache, and her caring circle of close friends. Services Thursday, October 25, 12noon at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St. ELLENBOGEN-Joan. The Officers, Directors
 FORDES-Dite M. (Aphrodite Fotiades, nee Michel). On October 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas. Devoted mother of William and George. Cherished mother-in-law of Taryn and Julia. Loving grandmother of Nicholas and Michael. Dear sister of George Michel. Loving aunt of Celia and Sophi
 LOEW-Diane. Died October 17, 2001 in Las Vegas, NV. after a quiet, courageous battle with cancer. Age 52. Native of Reading, PA., received M.A. in English from Columbia University and Law Degree at N.Y. Law School, passed N.Y. Bar in 1990. Served as administrative assistant at Milbank, Twee
 McCANN-Theresa Ann, lifetime New Yorker returned to her creator in her 73rd year on Tuesday October 23, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late Jane and Luke. Loving sister of James, Marilyn and Rev. Luke McCann. Her life was a triumph of loyalty and love. Family will receive friends at the Benn
 NISBET-Fannie. On October 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Thomas S. Caring mother of Judith Walker and her husband Bill, and the late Thomas S. Devoted grandmother of Anne Butler, Lynn Aguirre and Karen Reynolds, and their husbands Thomas, Joseph and Joshua. Also survived by seven great 
 PROUTY-Helen Ellis Thorne. The Dean and Faculty of Columbia University School of Nursing wish to express their deepest condolences to the family of Helen Ellis Thorne Prouty, our distinguished and beloved alumna. Her charm, grace and unwavering support of the School will be long remembered 
 ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., 59, on October 23, 2001. She is survived by her loving sister, Leni Goodman, and her adoring niece, Cache, and her caring circle of close friends. Services Thursday, October 25, 12noon at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St. ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., Esq. The officers an
 FISCHMAN-Marian Weinbaum. The faculty, staff, students, and alumni of Columbia University's Health Sciences Division mourn the passing of esteemed colleague & mentor, Dr. Marian Weinbaum Fischman, Professor of Behavioral Biology at The College of Physicians & Surgeons, on October 23, 2001. 
 FRANKEL-Irene Ball, 84. October 13, 2001 in Palo Alto, California. Formerly of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. Loving mother to her sons Ronald Ball of Scarsdale, New York and Gregory Ball of Littleton, CO, and wonderful grandmother to Michael, Jacquelyn, Geoffrey and Alexandra. A memorial service w
 GOETZ-Ruth Goodman. October 12, 2001. Beloved wife and collaborator of the late Augustus Goetz. Wonderful mother of Judy Goetz Sanger. Delighted grandmother of Katie Firth. Service Thursday, October 25, 2 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. Interment services 
 GORMAN-Martha. Died October 24th, 2001 at the age of 87. Following the performing career under the stage name of Marny Frances, she was the beloved wife of the late David Gorman. She was the loving mother of Gail Furman and mother-in-law of Jay Furman; devoted grandmother of Jason and Jesse
 HOLLINGSWORTH-Pauline Curtis of Cambridge. On Monday, October 22, 2001. First wife of the late Schuyler Hollingsworth, mother of four sons, Amor of Fullerton, CA, Schulyer of San Marino, CA, Curtis of Lincoln, MA., and Frazier Hollingsworth of Denver, CO. Sister of Laura Curtis of Old Westb
 MARQUSEE-Janet. The Board of Directors and entire membership of the Private Art Dealers Association deeply mourn the passing of our good friend and founding member, Janet Marqusee. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family at this time. Timothy Baum, President       
 McCANN-Theresa Ann. Lifetime New Yorker returned to her creator in her 73rd year on Tuesday Oct. 23, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late Jane and Luke. Loving sister of James, Marilyn and Rev. Luke McCann. Her life was a triumph of loyalty & love. Family will receive friends at the Bennett F
 McDERMOTT - Catherine (nee Fox). On October 21, 2001. Last surviving child of the late John J. Fox, founder of John J. Fox and Sons Inc., funeral directors since 1893 and Elizabeth (nee Bracken). Loving wife of the late Thomas Delmour, Sr. Beloved mother of Catherine E., of Washington, DC. 
 PORTEUS-Christina T. (nee Heffner). Resident of Asharoken, NY, for 54 years, on October 23, 2001, in her 92nd year. Former Village Trustee and Clerk. Longtime member of Asharoken Garden Club and Northport Historical Society. Beloved wife of the late Thomas. Loving mother of Nancy, Britton, 
 WADLER - Shirley. Highmount, NY. On October 24, 2001. Beloved wife of Herman Wadler, loving mother of Jason, Lisa, Steven and his wife Karen, doting grandmother of Alex. She loved life, loved to ski and dance, and filled her home with warmth and baking. No one left her table wanting.       
 BIDERMAN-Beth Olds, 80. Tranquilly on October 24, 2001. To the end more concerned about others than herself: first her loved ones, but not far behind the causes of world peace and progressive humanism with which she was professionally and personally involved through all of her adult life. 1
 BLANC-Nancy Scott. On October 21, 2001. Beloved wife of Robert S. Blanc Jr., devoted mother of Anne D'Olier, and Scottie Harrison, stepmother of Robert Blanc III and Roger Blanc, loving grandmother of Sam, Nicko, Matt, Alex, David, Gregory, Cynthia, Christopher and Melissa. Ms. Blanc, a des
 DEVLIN-Mary Eugenia. Beloved wife of Paul J. Devlin, M.D., died peacefully at home in Rye, NY, October 24. She was surrounded by her husband, children and grandchildren who were her greatest joy in life. Born in Manhattan in 1914, Mrs. Devlin resided in Bronxville, NY and Gulf Stream, FL be
 DONALD-Diana van der Vlis, 66. On October 22, in Missoula, MT, after a brief illness. Gifted actress, beloved wife and mother, cherished friend. After studying at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, her distinguished acting career began at the Crest Theater in Toronto. She appeared
 ELLENBOGEN-Joan. The New York Chapter of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers grieves the loss of an esteemed Fellow who pursued and achieved excellence in her professional practice. The distinction and enthusiasm with which she served our profession shall provide a continuing source
 FISCHMAN-Marian, Ph.D. We are much saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Marian Fischman, who, throughout a productive and distinguished career, made unique and valuable contributions to research on substance abuse. Her research was innovative and vital, and the me
 GORMAN-Martha. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Martha Gorman, beloved mother of Dr. Gail Furman, one of our founding board members and steadfast supporters. Gail's energy, enthusiasm and generosity for children in need is an enduring legacy and memorial
 PITT-Leah. Beloved mother of Joel and Ann (Amy) and motherin-law of Marie. Loving grandmother of Lisa, Aric, James, Robert, Josh, and Zack, great grandmother of Alanna, Natalie, and Zachary, sister of Henrietta. Devoted friend & caring teacher. She had a long, full life. We will all miss he
 van der VLIS-Diana (Donald), 66. On October 22, in Missoula, MT, after a brief illness. Gifted actress, beloved wife and mother, cherished friend. After studying at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, her distinguished acting career began at the Crest Theater in Toronto. She appear
 FISCHMAN-Marian. The directors, staff & residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of Marian Fischman. A gifted researcher, she made vital contributions to the understanding of substance abuse & chaired the Scientific Advisory Board of the American Council for Drug Education, a prevention ar
 GARMONT-Adele W. Lifelong member of Holyrood Episcopal Church and parish administrator. Memorial and burial service on Sunday, October 28, 2001 at 4 PM, Holyrood Episcopal Church, 715 West 179 St. NY, NY 10033. 212923-3770. Her presence among us is sorrowfully missed. Retired soon after her
 GORMAN-Martha. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Martha Gorman, beloved mother of Dr. Gail Furman, one of our founding board members and steadfast supporters. Gail's energy, enthusiasm and generosity for children in need is an enduring legacy and memorial
 KELLY-Regina G. Age 95 of Brick, N.J. died on October 25. She was born in Brooklyn, NY. Lived in Staten Island, NY before moving to Brick two years ago. She was employed for 20 years as a Receptionist with the Holy Family Hospital in Brooklyn, retiring 14 years ago. Predeceased by her belov
 McNICHOLL-Kathleen King. On October 25, 2001 of Bayside, New York. in her 95th year at Ozanam Hall. Beloved wife of the late George A. McNicholl. Devoted mother of Patricia McNicholl Quill and her husband Jeremiah, Frederick B. McNicholl, Kathleen A. Lynch and the late Elizabeth F. Carey. G
 Diana van der Vlis, the blond-haired, blue-eyed actress who caused a stir on Broadway in the 1950's hit ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Missoula, Mont., where she had a home. She was 66. The cause of death was uncertain pending an autopsy, said her husb
 ADAMS-Janet Rutherford. Of Bayside, NY on October 20, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Robert Adams. Devoted mother of Robert, Carol, & Anne Margaret. Cherished mother-in-law of Sharon, Perry, and Andrew. Loving grandmother of Ian, Ciarra, Zachary, Genavieve and Robert. Beloved sister of the 
 BAGLEY-Mildred J. (Sokol), 93, formerly of Great Neck & Miami Beach, peacefully passed away Friday, October 19, 2001, at home after suffering a long, courageous battle with illness. Devoted wife of the late William A. Bagley and Milton Sokol; loving mother of Lynne & Murray Norkin, and Mich
 BIDERMAN-Beth Olds, 80. Tranquilly on October 24, 2001. To the end more concerned about others than herself: first her loved ones, but not far behind the causes of world peace and progressive humanism with which she was professionally and personally involved through all of her adult life. 1
 FAZAKAS-Eleanor L. (Jewett) ''Nellie''. Age 81, of NY, NY passed away Friday, October 19, 2001. Graduate of Cooper Union and long time employee Colony Club. She was preceded in death by daughter Stephanie Munoz and is survived by sister Martha H. Jewett of Upper Montclair, NJ; son Matthew F
 GORMAN-Martha. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Martha Gorman, beloved mother of Dr. Gail Furman, one of our founding board members and steadfast supporters. Gail's energy, enthusiasm and generosity for children in need is an enduring legacy and memorial
 HOEXTER-Joan C., R.N., Ed.D. Died Saturday, October 20, age 85. Devoted aunt of Michael, Wendy and Adam. Professor Emerita of nursing, a distinguished nursing educator who taught and was admired and beloved by many generations of graduate students in New York University's Division of Nursin
 HOUSEMAN-Joan. The Acting Company notes with great sadness the loss of our dear friend, board director and wife of John Houseman, our co - founder. Among her many lasting gifts to the Company was assisting Nicholas Martin's direction of our acclaimed production of The Rivals. We will miss h
 KAPPALMAN-Miriam S., 96. Died October 22, 2001. A great lady who will be sorely missed by her loving niece, Sari Gilbert of Rome, Italy.       
 KENNEY-Dossi. Devoted mother, wife, aunt, friend, teacher, died October 21. Survived by her son Ira. She will always be in our hearts.       
 LAVINE-Grace Leibel, 94; peacefully on October 26, 2001 in Ventura, CA. Gracie, a longtime resident of Long Beach, NY, was deeply loved by her late husband Elliott. She will be greatly missed by her daughter, Barbara Pfeffer Weiss, son-in-law Arthur; grandchildren Rachel and Jon, Andrew and
 MARLOW-Leicia (nee Mahla). Died on October 25, 2001. Beloved companion of Fred Brandt; loving sister of Holly Askling, much loved aunt of Jennifer and Steven Askling; cherished niece of Morgan and Jane Lucid. She will be missed by all who knew her. A memorial service will be held at Frank E
 NEUMANN-Gerda. Age 93, on October 25, peacefully at her home in NYC. Born in Berlin, she was the extraordinarily devoted daughter of Judge Adolf Neumann and Hedwig (nee Mendelssohn). She fled Nazi Germany in April, 1933, and after several years in England and Holland came to America in 1937
 O'MALLEY-Joan McCarthy. Colleagues and alumnae of Hunter College High School are saddened by the loss of Joan McCarthy O'Malley who died on Sunday, October 21 after a long illness. As a member of the Social Studies Department she inspired decades of students with her integrity, scholarship 
 PARKER-Mary Welsh McLeran. Of Katonah, NY, Died peacefully at her home on Oct 22, 2001 at the age of 109. Wife of the late Morgan Parker. Mother of Foxhall Alexander Parker. Grandmother of Patricia Parker Mueller and Mary Morgan Parker. Great grandmother of Morgan Raye Mueller. Interment wa
 SCHNEIDER-Marcia Kuyper. Age 74 of Clearwater Beach, FL formerly of New York City died October 17, 2000 at her residence. Born in Chicago, she grew up in Pella, Iowa. She worked as a television director for NBC Television Network for over 40 years, and retired to Florida. She had many achie
 TRAUB-Rita. On October 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Ben Traub. Loving mother of Robert and Mark. Aunt to Lois Silverman and Melvin Tan. She will be dearly missed by her family and friends.       
 Joan L. Ellenbogen, the main founder and first president of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Myrna Felder, a colleague an
 GOLDSTONE-Clarice. Died October 27, 2001. Loving wife for 48 years of Abner Goldstone, who died in 1993. Loving and devoted mother and grandmother. She is survived by her son Abner (Sandy) and her granddaughter Leah. Clarice lived a full life and will be missed by her many friends. She did 
 HAAS-Esther. On October 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Loving mother of Janet and Deena. She was a special person who will be forever in our hearts. We will miss her.       
 MARLOW-Leicia (nee Mahla). Died on October 25, 2001. Beloved companion of Fred Brandt; loving sister of Holly Askling, much loved aunt of Jennifer and Steven Askling; cherished niece of Morgan and Jane Lucid. She will be missed by all who knew her. A memorial service will be held at Frank E
 SCHWARTZ-Ethel Gold. Died October 26, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Charles I. Schwartz, M.D., devoted mother of Judy and Richard Berg, adoring grandmother of Erica Lynn and David Joshua (of beloved memory), beloved sister of Jessie Handler and the late Florence Anzel, Jeanette Gold and Ma
 WYLE-Helen P. Passed away at New York Hospital on October 27. She was the beloved wife of the late Clement J. Wyle. Loving mother of Beth Thrope (David M.), of Barrington, IL. Adoring grandmother of James and Jeffrey Thrope. She will be dearly missed by her loving family and friends.       
 Elaine Dannheisser, a longtime collector of contemporary art who gave most of her collection to the Museum of Modern Art, died on Sunday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton. Her death was announced by a spokeswoman for the Modern, w
 Jacqueline Hudson, a landscape painter, graphic artist and benefactor of the arts, died Wednesday at her home in Damariscotta, Me. She was 91. Ms. Hudson was born in Cambridge, Mass., a daughter of the artist Eric Hudson. She grew up in Manhattan and Monhegan Island, Me., surrounded
 ARONSON-Gertrude. On October 28, 2001 in Fairfield, CT. Widow of Dr. Martin E. Aronson, predeceased by son, Marc Eric Aronson, devoted sister of Pearl Silver of Westport, CT, Bess Halpert of Bridgeport, CT, cherished grandmother of Michael Aronson and Jennifer Schissler, and loving aunt to 
 BARUCH-Sulamita, M.D., Ph.D. Died on October 29, 2001. Survived by her husband Dr. Hans Baruch and her brother Dr. Saul Balagura and all her accomplishments. BARUCH-Sulamita. The Staff and Board of Hospice Care Network, deeply regret the passing of their beloved Medical Director and
 CASTELLI-Gladys nee Fox, 97. Of Dallastown, PA, formerly of NYC, died on October 26th, 2001 at her residence in Pennsylvania. Wife of the late Albert Castelli. She worked as a switchboard operator for the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in NY until she retired at age 85. Funeral service will be held tod
 COOPER-Helen Snyder. Beloved wife of the late Adrian Snyder and Dr. Nathaniel S. Cooper, survived by devoted and loving niece, Francine V. Goldstein, and devoted nephew and niece, Warren and Barbara Brandt, devoted sister-inlaw of Rhoda C. Brandt, also survived by a great nephew, Jeffrey L.
 DANNHEISSER - Elaine (Mrs. Werner H.). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, along with the members of its International Council, join the art world in mourning the loss of Elaine Dannheisser. Elaine had served as a Trustee of the Museum since 1995, a member of its Committee o
 GOLDSTONE-Clarice. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Clarice Goldstone. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernha
 LAWRENCE-Susan Goth. Age 58, on October 29, 2001. Kind, considerate and loving of all. Survived by her loving son Brian and loving daughter Wendy Armitage, cherished grandchildren Basheer, Christopher and John. Services are today, 1:30 PM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt. 4 East, P
 SANDOR-Christina. Born Satzger von Balvanyos in Vienna passed away on October 26, 2001. She was widowed to Archduke Carlos Habsburg Bourbon, once claimant to the thrown of Spain and married to Gyorgy Sandor, renowned concert pianist and protege of the composer Bela Bartok. She is survived b
 SEBOLD-Mildred. The Congregation of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst, records with sorrow the passing of its member. We express our sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President       
 TUTHS-Evelyn S. Of Southampton, formerly of Valley Stream and Rockville Centre, New York on October 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Philip M. Tuths, MD. Loving mother of Carmel, Evelyn J., Donna, Philip M., Paul and Michael E. Tuths. Cherished grandmother of eleven grandsons. Also surviv
 BARUCH-Sulamita, M.D. The physicians and staff of QueensLong Island Medical Group, PC, are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved former colleague and we extend our condolences to her family. Dr. Baruch was a distinguished and dedicated internist with our group for more than 16 years
 DANNHEISSER - Elaine (Mrs. Werner H.). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, along with the members of its International Council, join the art world in mourning the loss of Elaine Dannheisser. Elaine had served as a Trustee of the Museum since 1995, a member of its Committee o
 DILLANE-Sr. Mary, RSM (formerly Sr. Mary Eugene) on October 26, 2001 in Florida. Principal at Our Lady of Victory, Dobbs Ferry for 20 years. Survived by her brother John and her sister-in-law Jane. Prayer service on Friday 7:30PM Marian Woods Convent, 152 Ridge Road, Hartsdale, NY. Mass of 
 DOWLING-Mary Yolanda, 46. Of Rosedale, NY, heroically and tragically on September 11, 2001, working for AON at the World Trade Center. Beloved daughter of Christy Dowling and the late Mary C. Dowling (nee Dolan). Cherished sister of Christopher, Andrew & Rosaleen Shea. Sisterin-law of Judy 
 GHALIB-Saeeda, on October 18, 2001, at age 45, leaves to mourn her passing six daughters, four sons, eight sisters, seven brothers, other relatives and friends. A devoted woman of faith, strength and exceptional courage.       
 JULAY-Terka. Died September 17, 2001 at the age of 97. Dr. Julay was a psychotherapist in New York City from 1946 to 1995, when she moved to Maine. She will be missed by her many friends, the Lax family, former patients and her family. Survivors include her sister Anne Marton, a nephew Dr. 
 LIPTON-Hilda (nee Mandelbaum). On October 30, 2001. Loving wife of the late Harold L. Lipton, Esq. Beloved mother of Dr. Andrew Lipton, Prof. Rhoda Lipton, Judge Ellen Hollander. Cherished grandmother of Joshua and Shira Lipton, Hillary, Craig and Brett Hollander. Treasured mother-in-law of
 McHALE-Patricia Cameron. Died at her home in Palm City, FL. on October 28, 2001. She was born Patricia Ann Cameron on September 26, 1921 in Detroit, MI and was the niece of Walter O. Briggs. She was educated at The Convent of The Sacred Heart and graduated from Manhattanville College of the
 NEIGEBORN - Sylvia. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Her life was filled with love of family. She joins her beloved Sam in eternity. We treasure her memory. Helen and Burt; Beth and Walter; Amy and Paul; Lenore and Scott; Ellen and David; Allyson and Patrick; Gregory
