 KLEIN--Jeanne, died on June 29, 2005. She is remembered by her sister-in-law, nieces, nephews, brother and friends. A graduate of New York University, she had a long career as a securities analyst.       
 LEONTIEF--Estelle Marks, 97, died Tuesday, 28 June, 2005 from an unexpected and severe infection. Much loved wife of the late Wassily Leontief, mother of Svetlana Alpers, grandmother of Benjamin and Nicholas and also to their wives Karin and Kathryn, great-grandmother of Noah, Mira, Alina a
 LEVISON--Isabelle C. A resident of Florida, died June 25, 2005. A native of Norfolk, Virginia, she also resided in New York City and Detroit, Michigan. She was a founder at Mount Sinai Medical Center and Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, and a patron of the arts. Survived by her children Sall
 SEDLEY--Nathan. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Nathan Sedley, a renowned businessman and leader of the Jewish community. Nathan's lifetime of support for humanitarian causes served as the foundation for the Sedley family's commitm
 SPAR--Lisa. 68, June 27, 2005. Beloved wife of Martin Spar, devoted mother of Steven (Kathleen), Jeffrey (Wendy Jeshion), Lori (Brett Carnot). Ecstatic grandmother of Isabella Rose. Happiness cut short, her memory lives on.       
 WEBER--Miriam, died at her home on June 29 at the age of 96. She lived a full, rich life and will be remembered with love by her children, Michael and Suzanne Weber, and Judith Weber and Nat Sobel; her grandchildren, Joshua Weber and Lee, Anna, Adam and Joey Sobel; and her great granddaught
 ZAMANSKY--Renee. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our long-time, cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children, Martine, Michael, Stephen and their families. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres
 ZAFF--Gertrude Toub. An attorney and NYC resident, passed away June 23, 2005. Born July 27, 1916, in Bayonne NJ, and graduated from NYU law school in 1939, Gertrude sang briefly at NYC's Metropolitan Opera with her twin sister Kasena Karmel. She practiced law at several organizations, inclu
 Grete Sultan, a pianist and teacher who was both a performer of Bach and Schubert and a mentor to John Cage and his contemporaries, died in her sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital last Sunday morning. She was 99. ''Basically, her heart gave out,'' said Robert Jurgrau, a former student a
 DEDIC--Theresa (nee Wieneke). Suddenly on June 30, 2005. Beloved wife and life companion of Donald B. Loving mother of Josh. Devoted teacher at P.S. 130 (Chinatown). She will be greatly missed by all who knew her.       
 PRESSMAN--Alina K., M.D. Of Bayside, NY died on June 19, 2005 at the age of 84. Alina was an extraordinary mother and a devoted friend to many. Born in Warsaw, Poland, she lost most of her family in the Holocaust. Despite this, she retained a positive outlook on life. She spent some of her 
 SIEGEL--Frieda. The Board of Directors and Staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the death of Frieda Siegel, mother of Executive Director Richard Siegel. May her memory be a blessing. Carol B. Spinner, President Charlotte Newberger, Chair       
 SPAR--Lisa. 68, June 27, 2005. Beloved wife of Martin Spar, devoted mother of Steven (Kathleen), Jeffrey (Wendy Jeshion), Lori (Brett Carnot). Ecstatic grandmother of Isabella Rose. Happiness cut short, her memory lives on.       
 TREDWELL--Constance C. Of Essex, CT. Died June 28, in Middletown, CT, age 75. Performed with The Noteworthies on numerous TV variety shows and many NYC nightclubs. Practiced law in Hartford, CT. An active member of the Alumni Association of Rider College and President of the Board of Ivoryt
 ZAFF--Gertrude Toub. An attorney and NYC resident, passed away June 23, 2005. Born July 27, 1916, in Bayonne NJ, and graduated from NYU law school in 1939, Gertrude sang briefly at NYC's Metropolitan Opera with her twin sister Kasena Karmel. She practiced law at several organizations, inclu
 BERKMAN -- Judith Cossin. Beloved wife of Charles; devoted mother and mother-inlaw to Meredith Berkman and Daniel Mintz, Marna (Berkman) Tolchin and Robert Tolchin, Johanna Berkman and Emanuel Weintraub; incomparable grandmother (''JuJu the legend'') to Morielle, Noa, Caleb, Amalya, Moses, 
 CULLEN--Eileen Gallagher. Died peacefully on July 3, 2005 with her family around her. Beloved wife of Bill, cherished mother of Emmett and Charlie. Beloved daughter of Mary Kay Gallagher and the late John T. Cherished sibling of Katherine, Joanne, J.T., Arthur and Edward. A close confidante
 FREUND--Vivian. We extend heartfelt condolences to Robert Freund, Lilly Mansbach, her six children and many grandchildren on the loss of his wife, her daughter, their mother and grandmother. A warm and kind person, her positive attitude and modest demeanor made her a role model to those who
 PRESENT--Ignatz. We mourn the passing of the beloved husband of Rose, our loyal member, and extend our deepest sympathy to her and to her devoted sons. REUTH Ursula Merkin, Chair Rosa Strygler, President       
 STERNFELD--Edith Judith. Of Belle Harbor, NY, and Lake Worth, FL. Although she was 95, she was still full of yearning for life and its experiences. Beloved wife of the late David; deeply cherished mother of Joel and Alan, as well as the late Andrew and Gabriel; loving mother-in-law to Marti
 Nan Kempner, one of New York's most serene hostesses and clotheshorses, a glittering fixture at social events and fashion shows on both sides of the Atlantic for decades, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74. The cause was emphysema, said her husband, Thomas. A heavy smo
 HALPERIN--Florence S., 88, on June 30. Resident of Cedarhurst, NY and later of Palm Beach, FL. Devoted to her family, she lived a full rich life with a lifelong interest in the arts. Widow of J. (''Jack'') Stanley Halperin and Albert Cederbaum. Survived by her son, Andrew Steven Halperin an
 HARBUS--Sarah. On July 2, 2005. Loving wife of Meyer, mother of Richard, Lorna, and Fredric, grandmother and great-grandmother. Sarah was was a wonderful homemaker, and a lover of music, art, theater, dance, books and travel; she joined her husband in the fight for social justice. She was w
 HARRIS--Bertha Anne, novelist, essayist, teacher, editor and literary feminist, died, May 22, 2005 in New York at the age of 67. Her novels, Catching Saradove (1969) and Confessions of Cherubino (1972) were published by Harcourt, Brace. Her third novel, Lover, was published by Daughters Com
 HERMAN--Amy. 53, on July 2. Beloved daughter of Sylvia, sister of Marc, sister-in-law of Harriet, aunt, friend and colleague of many. Amy contributed to the well being of this city through her passionate work in legal services, the NY AIDS Coalition, and most recently, for the National Orga
 ENGLANDER -- Betty, of Manhattan, passed away peacefully on July 5, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Philip Englander and the devoted and loving mother of Robert Englander and Rita Sands. Cherished grandmother of Adam, Alex and Andrew Englander and of Jessica and Hillary Sands. Loving and dev
 GARCIA--Celerina. July 3, 2005. Devoted daughter of the late Sixta and Serafin Garcia. Celerina was a longtime employee of Chase Manhattan Bank. Also a Spanish professor at the New School of Social Research. She was a member of Padre Felix Varela Foundation. She was a longtime active parish
 HARLEY--Ruth Stratton. The Adelphi University Alumni Association expresses its deep sadness at the passing of our friend and distinguished alumna Ruth Stratton Harley '24, '50 (Hon.). Ruth generously gave her time and energy to support the University and her fellow alumni. In celebration of
 KAY--Shana. 19, beloved daughter of Jane and Randy Kay, sister to Jared and granddaughter to Gladys Bernstein. She passed on July 3rd after a sudden and quick illness. Shana had a verve for life that was readily apparent to all who knew her. She loved being a student at University of Wiscon
 KEMPNER--Nan. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute, express our sincere sorrow at the passing of Nan Kempner, the wife of Thomas L. Kempner, a current and loyal member of the Board. Mrs. Kempner was the daughterin-law of the late Alan Kemp
 LANDAUER--Lotte. Beloved wife of the late Fred. Devoted mother of Doris Fenig and George Landauer & motherin-law of Sidney and Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Steven and Jenny, Deena Sadowski, Jay, Brian and Glenn. Great grandmother of Alexandra and Nicholas. Beloved by all who were conside
 MARKUS--Marie E. S. A. of New York, NY and Chatham, MA. On Tuesday, July 5 at her home, surrounded by her family, after a brief illness. Widow of Frits, survived by her children Frank and Anna, daughter-in-law Nancy, and grandchildren Austin, Ella and Elisabeth. Mrs. Markus was born in 1914
 CARLTON--Elizabeth Harral, 96, who oversaw some of the first fee-for-adoption agencies in the U.S., died in Philadelphia on May 30, 2005. Until earlier this year she was a longtime resident of East 68 St., Manhattan. She was the widow of the writer Henry Fisk Carlton. A gathering of friends
 COHEN--Bernice Abelove, 83, of Passaic, New Jersey. Bunny, the beloved wife of Dr. Mortimer Cohen and the late Bernard Abelove, died July 5 in New York City of complications following surgery. She was born in Schenectady, New York, to Rose and Jacob Koslowf. Greatly loved by her daughters, 
 KEMPNER--Nan. The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of our longtime Benefit Advisory Council member. Nan's imaginative and spirited leadership helped guide The Society's successful fundraising events for over thirty years. Nan touched many hearts and minds
 KOSSTRIN--Bessie. Of New York passed away on July 5, 2005, peacefully after a brief illness in her 86th year. Beloved wife of the late Archie, devoted mother of five accomplished children, and loving grandmother of seven lively grandchildren, she was an avid reader and a devoted teacher in 
 MARKUS--Marie E. S. A. of New York, NY and Chatham, MA. On Tuesday, July 5 at her home, surrounded by her family, after a brief illness. Widow of Frits, survived by her children Frank and Anna, daughter-in-law Nancy, and grandchildren Austin, Ella and Elisabeth. Mrs. Markus was born in 1914
 MILLS--E. Eloise, 92, of Greenwich, CT died peacefully on June 18, 2005. She is survived by one nephew, three nieces and their families. Private interment at Oak Lawn Cemetery, Fairfield, CT.       
 NEMEROFF--Betty J. July 5th at her home in Scarsdale, NY. Wife of Robert B., mother of Bill Wisser and Seth. Donations to Hospice of Westchester, 95 S. Broadway, White Plains, NY.       
 BIRNBAUM--Edith B., age 82, of Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. Died July 6, 2005 at Danbury Hospital. She was loved by her husband Milton, children and grandchildren. She will be very much missed. Services Friday, July 8, 11 AM, at Temple B'nai Israel, 444 Main Street, North, Southbury, CT
 FINKELSTONE -- Berenice. 90. Peacefully on July 6, 2005. Of Medford Leas, NJ; formerly of Easton, CT and NYC. Pioneering social worker, always serving others. She was an inspiration to all who knew her. Survivors include her beloved brother, George S. Goldman, McLean, VA; her nephew and his
 JOHNSON--Marjorie. Age 93, died on July 4, 2005 after a long illness. She was a gentle super intelligent woman with a sense of humor; a teacher librarian who helped everyone while she never stopped fighting for her rights. She was important to her husband Clarence Johnson and her son James 
 MARKUS--Rita. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of longtime friend, Rita Markus. A member of the President's Circle, which acknowledges the Institute's most visionary benefactors, she provided critical support in the areas of biological physics,
 PORTNOW--Muriel (Kommel), on July 6, 2005 at age 95, passed peacefully, surrounded by her loving family. Adored wife of the late Henry Portnow. Cherished mother of Norman Portnow and Aline Hoffman (Bill). Devoted grandmother of Lauren (Peter), Jeffrey Portnow, David Hoffman and Rachel Hoffm
 MARKUS--Marie (Rita). The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Rita Markus, a devoted benefactor and friend. With her husband Frits, she endowed a fund for the acquisition of drawings, which they--and after his death, she--continued to support generously
 MORSE--Mildred Hockstader ''Tiny''. Of New York, Washington D.C., and Geneva, Switzerland. Died July 8, at her home in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late David Abner Morse, Mrs. Morse was born in New York City in 1911. The daughter of Aline Straus Hockstader and Leonard Albert Hockstader, 
 PIERCE--Nancy W., on July 8th. Beloved wife of Morton. Loving mother of Matthew and Nicholas. Devoted sister of Larry Washor. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Sunday, July 10th, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. PIERCE--Nan
 FEUERSTADT--Oscar. July 8, 2005. Oscar Feuerstadt of 6845 Fountain Circle, Lake Worth, FL, and 200 Fountain St, New Haven. Devoted husband of Rita (Shapiro) Feuerstadt. Beloved father of Ivy Feuerstadt and her husband Barry Becken of West Newton, MA, and the late Bruce Feuerstadt. Dear brot
 KATZ--Thelma. On July 1. Beloved wife of the late Harvey Katz. Wonderful mother of Bennett. Thelma retired as a partner with Harvey in Holiday Wine & Liquor in Grand Central Terminal. She will be missed by all who knew her. Donations in Thelma's memory may be made to Project Ezra, 197 E. Br
 LIEBER--Ida. On July 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Loving mother of Paula Gerson, Linda Levy and Robert Lieber. Mother in law of Alex, Shep and Sue. Dear sister of Cissy Karro. Adoring grandmother of Max, Melissa, Jennie and Josh. Great-grandmother of Matyas, Isabel, Josef, Sam and
 LIEBOWITZ--Julia. On July 7, 2005 at age 83, passed peacefully, surrounded by her loving family and friends. Adored wife, mother, sister and grandmother. We'll miss her always. Services are on Monday, July 11th at 12 noon, at Schwartz Brothers Chapel, Forest Hills, NY.       
 LOCKARD--Elizabeth Eastment, 52, at her home in Warwick, NY, July 8, 2005. Survived by her husband Arthur; four brothers: Anthony, Jeffrey, John and Robert Eastment; stepmother, Cleunice Eastment. Graduated Friends Academy, Locust Valley, NY, 1971 and Middlebury College, VT, 1975. Employed 
 MORSE--Mildred Hockstader ''Tiny''. Of New York, Washington D.C., and Geneva, Switzerland. Died July 8, at her home in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late David Abner Morse, Mrs. Morse was born in New York City in 1911. The daughter of Aline Straus Hockstader and Leonard Albert Hockstader, 
 PIERCE--Nancy W., on July 8th. Beloved wife of Morton. Loving mother of Matthew and Nicholas. Devoted sister of Larry Washor. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Sunday, July 10th, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St.       
 ROWLEY--Marie V. (nee Vatalaro), on July 6, 2005, in her 80th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Edwin N. Rowley. Loving mother of Dr. Edwin N., Susan, Joan and Sean V. Loving grandmother of Dawn, Heather, Renee, Nicholas, Robert, and grandmother and best friend of Erin. Dear sister of Adel
 SMITH--Rita, 89, died peacefully at the Allerton House Assisted Living Facility, Duxbury, Mass., on Tuesday, July 5. A longtime resident of Forest Hills, NY, she moved there in January to be near her daughter and son-in-law, Barbara and Morgan Lamarche. Also survived by grandson, Gregory La
 STEWARD--Rose Mary (nee Leo). Born November 16, 1921, in Corona, NY, passed June 6, 2005, in Jamaica, NY. The widow of Charles J. She is survived by her children Janet and Michael, her stepson Harris, and her devoted brother John. Singing was her joy and passion.       
 YANG--Mrs. Von Sung. Widow of Dr. Ho Ching Yang. Died July 9, 2005. She was born in China, April 7, 1902, and died at her apartment in Manhattan with three of her seven children and two grandchildren at her side. Mrs. Yang witnessed the 20th century almost in its entirety and was personally
 KRACAUER--Gertrude. The community of West End Synagogue will miss the warmth of Gertrude's lovely smile, but will forever hold her survivor example of dignity and fortitude. Our sympathy to her family. Service, Plaza Memorial Chapel, Tuesday, at noon. West End Synagogue A Reconstructionist 
 LISS--Ethel. With profound sadness and love, we mourn the death of Ethel Liss, whose extraordinary caring and thoughtfulness touched the lives of all who had the privilege to know her. Her devotion to her children Mark, Steven, David and Mindy, daughters-in-law Bonnie, Carol and Michelle, a
 MORSE--Mildred Hockstader ''Tiny''. Of New York, Washington D.C., and Geneva, Switzerland. Died July 8, at her home in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late David Abner Morse, Mrs. Morse was born in New York City in 1911. The daughter of Aline Straus Hockstader and Leonard Albert Hockstader, 
 WELLS -- Mildred Brenner. February 7, 1923-July 8, 2005. Beloved wife of 59 years of Carl F. Wells, who survives her, along with their children, Wendy Ellen and Nicholas Adam, and her grandson Richard Martin Wright, all of Mohegan Lake, NY. We will always carry you in our hearts, and our li
 YANG--Mrs. Von Sung. Widow of Dr. Ho Ching Yang. Died July 9, 2005. She was born in China, April 7, 1902, and died at her apartment in Manhattan with three of her seven children and two grandchildren at her side. Mrs. Yang witnessed the 20th century almost in its entirety and was personally
 Frances Langford, a mellow contralto who ventured into combat zones with Bob Hope's troupe during World War II and the Korean and Vietnam Wars to serenade tens of thousands of servicemen with ballads that reminded them of the girls they left behind, died yesterday at her home in Jensen Beac
 CARR--Mildred S. On July 9, 2005, at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Frank Edward Carr. Loving mother of Dr. Ronald (Nancy) Carr and Richard (Diana) Carr. Adored grandmother of Peter (Rebecca), Jacqueline (Richard Lonoff), Timothy (Whitney) Carr and great grandmother of Peter, Lucy, Hannah
 GROBERG--Marion Shulman Died Saturday night in NYC after a brief illness. Born 1913 in Russia, daughter of Faya Woolman Shulman and Joseph Lieb Shulman. Wife of the late Robert L. Groberg. Beloved stepmother of Bruce, Nelie, Michael, Sandi; grandmother of Frances, Robert, Tami, Shira. Grave
 JORDAN--Sheila, July 10. Beloved wife of Frank Jordan; loving mother of Michele Schwartz, Suzanne Fellini and Barry Filene; loving grandmother of Jacqueline Brecher and Anjelica Fellini and great-grandmother of Mikaela and Cary Brecher. She will be deeply missed by her family and all who kn
 KIMBALL BOYCE--Mary. Died July 10, after a brief illness. A Navy nurse in WWII, Mary is survived by her daughter, Kristine Cate of Londonderry, NH, her son, Roger Kimball of Norwalk, CT, and ten grandchildren. Requiescat in pace.       
 LeCLAIR--Ellenanne Marsh. 83, of Chappaqua, NY and Peterborough, NH on July 8. Beloved wife of the late Leopold LeClair, mother of Joelle LeClair Whitmarsh of Wrentham, MA, Isabella LeClair, of Seattle, WA, Amelia LeClair of Newtonville and Truro, MA and son, Amory LeClair of Ottawa, Canada
 LISS--Ethel. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Ethel Liss. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 SHRIFTMAN -- Mollie. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 STOLL -- Marjorie Cowen. Born May 14, 1920 in New York, died July 10, 2005, in Palm Beach. Preceded in death by her husbands, Jack Weiner, Lawrence Stoll, Lou Holtz, and daughter Lynn Switzer, brother, Richard Cowen, parents William and Jean Cowen. Survived by son, Jonathan Stoll, daughter-
 CARR--Mildred S. On July 9, 2005, at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Frank Edward Carr. Loving mother of Dr. Ronald (Nancy) Carr and Richard (Diana) Carr. Adored grandmother of Peter (Rebecca), Jacqueline (Richard Lonoff), Timothy (Whitney) Carr and great grandmother of Peter, Lucy, Hannah
 KESTENBAUM--Ruth. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Ruby Gottlieb. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KREMENTZ--Virginia. Goodbye, darling, I will miss you terribly. Kitty Carlisle Hart KREMENTZ--Virginia Hyde. Died on July 12, 2005, at the age of 87, in New Vernon, New Jersey. The cause was brain cancer. Born on August 12, 1917, she grew up in Sagaponack and in Manhattan. She was a
 LaVIALE--Elaine. On July 11 in her hundredth year. Formerly of NYC, late of Sherman, CT. Devoted wife of the late Roger LaViale; adored mother of the late Roger LaViale Jr. Survived by daughters Colette (Mrs. Charles W.) Russell and Yvonne LaViale, both of Manhattan. Loving grandmother of e
 MILLER--Linda. On July 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Herman Miller. Devoted mother of Robert Miller and Rochelle Miller. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Michael, Melissa, Jason and Danielle. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Wednesday 7:00-9:0
 PHILLIPS--Gladys. On July 11, 2005. Warm, caring, bright, and loving. She will live on forever in the hearts of her husband, Gordon; her sons Richard and Gary; her daughter-in-law Carol; her grandchildren Nicole and Hannah; her large extended family and her many friends, all of who loved an
 BODDICKER--Mary L. Of Garden City and Saltaire, New York on July 12. Beloved wife of Arthur F. and mother of Christine Roach. Grandmother of Alison, Jennifer, Edward and Eliza. Sister of John, Michael and Florence. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her.       
 FLEISHAKER--Dorothy. The Board of Directors and staff of HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, sadly mourn the passing of Dorothy Fleishaker, beloved wife of HIAS Board member Donald J. Fleishaker. The Fleishakers' commitment to living a life enriched by and connected to Jewish tradition 
 KAUFMAN--Beatrice. Died peacefully on Wednesday, July 13. Beloved wife of the late Barry Kaufman. Cherished mother of Barbara, Sharon and Howard. Loving grandmother of Barry, Amy, Jennifer, Michael, Brian, Alicia, Daniel and Nicole. Adored great-grandmother of Hannah, Maya, Zachary, Jacob, 
 LaVIALE--Elaine. On July 11 in her hundredth year. Formerly of NYC, late of Sherman, CT. Devoted wife of the late Roger LaViale; adored mother of the late Roger LaViale Jr. Survived by daughters Colette (Mrs. Charles W.) Russell and Yvonne LaViale, both of Manhattan. Loving grandmother of e
 McKEON--Graceann M., died July 11, 2005. Resident of Riverside, CT. Loving daughter of Peter T. and Lorraine D. McKeon (predeceased). Beloved sister of Peter, Virginia, Agnes, Francine, Marianne, Paul, and Andrew. Beloved sister-in-law of James, Alice, Mary, and Brian. Wonderful aunt to Kat
 MILLER--Linda. On July 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Herman Miller. Devoted mother of Robert Miller and Rochelle Miller. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Michael, Melissa, Jason and Danielle. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Wednesday 7:00-9:0
 SEGRETI--Antoinette Adelina, on July 11, 2005. Survived by her children, Mary Whitten, Irene Birdsong, Sylvia Walsh, Rose DeVenuto and John L. Segreti; 13 grandchildren, 19 great-grandchildren, and one great-greatgrandchild. Visitors may call at John Dormi & Son Funeral Home, 1121 Morris Pa
 SELLARS--Louise Roy. The U.S. Fund for UNICEF notes with sadness the passing of Louise Roy Sellars, a dynamic and creative volunteer for many years. Her dedication, leadership and unique ability to inspire others accomplished a great deal in UNICEF's efforts to improve the lives of the worl
 BODDICKER--Mary L. Of Garden City and Saltaire, New York on July 12. Beloved wife of Arthur F. and mother of Christine Roach. Grandmother of Alison, Jennifer, Edward and Eliza. Sister of John, Michael and Florence. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her.       
 SELLARS -- Louise Roy, whose life's work was dedicated to service and volunteerism, died peacefully July 6 in Mount Vernon, NY. In her work with the Red Cross, Girl Scouts, March of Dimes, UNICEF and the League of Women Voters, she inspired partnerships and collaborations among people. At t
 WEINSTOCK--Ida. Born July 22, 1914 in Brooklyn, NY. Died July 8, 2005 in Los Angeles, California. She is survived by her son Robert, M.D. and her daughter Diana, Ph.D. Her husband of 66 years, George, predeceased her. She was a devoted, wise, inspirational, loving, treasured wife and mother
 GORMAN--Eleanor (Larkin) Born in New York City to the late Patrick and Rose Ann Larkin. Beloved wife of the late Joseph P. Cherished mother of Joseph, Patrick, Joanne, Michael and Dennis. Dear grandmother to Erica, David, Krista, Kerin, Meagan, Brianne; great grandmother to Cassidy Rose. On
 DeBLASIO--Evelyn Marion, age 98 of Watch Hill, R.I., formerly of Mount Vernon, NY, on July 13, 2005. Predeceased by husband, Michael Humbert, in 1963. Mother of Linda Brenner and Susan Bartsch. Grandmother of Keri Lynne Brenner, Glen (Sara Alvord) Brenner, Dean (Emily Lipps) Brenner, Michae
 FAND--Helen Hirsh. On July 5, 2005 in Morristown, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Theodore I. Fand for 55 years; loving and devoted mother of Rita, Marlene, and the late Steven Fand; dear sister of Ruth Press, Sidney Goldstein, and the late David Hirsh. Helen was born in Brooklyn, NY, 
 GORMAN--Eleanor (Larkin) Born in New York City to the late Patrick and Rose Ann Larkin. Beloved wife of the late Joseph P. Cherished mother of Joseph, Patrick, Joanne, Michael and Dennis. Dear grandmother to Erica, David, Krista, Kerin, Meagan, Brianne; great grandmother to Cassidy Rose. On
 LORING--Ann. 90. Actor, writer, union president and most passionately, revered teacher and mentor. Leaves behind sons Joel and Stephen and her extended family of beloved friends. Service Sunday, July 24, 3PM, at Campbell's, 1076 Madison at 81st. Donations: International Women's Writing Guil
 SAWICKI--Gloria M., died of cancer on July 14, 2005, Bastille Day. She was 60 years old. She received her BA and Masters degrees in French from Queens College, NY, and a DA degree in French at SUNY, Stony Brook, NY. She is survived by her mother, her husband, two sisters, one brother, five 
 STILLMAN--Linda A. At age 72. Devoted wife of Ronald. Loving mother of Michael, Rose and Jonathan. Beloved grandmother of Joshua, Benjamin, Leo, Harry and Ariana. Dear sister of Joan. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Lee Iacocca Foundation: Cure for Diabetes, 17 Arlington St,
 WEINSTOCK--Ida. Born July 22, 1914 in Brooklyn, NY. Died July 8, 2005 in Los Angeles, California. She is survived by her son Robert, M.D. and her daughter Diana, Ph.D. Her husband of 66 years, George, predeceased her. She was a devoted, wise, inspirational, loving, treasured wife and mother
 ZINGMAN--Barbara Gold. On July 15. Beloved wife of Edgar. Mother of Aileen, Margaret and Jonathan. Grandmother of seven. Sister of Bette Rosen and Arthur Gold. Mother-in-law of Fred and Ann. We will always hold her close to our hearts and never forget how her laughter and words carried us t
 KRAMER--Lola. 94, of Palm Beach, FL, and Harrison, NY. Beloved wife of 73 years to Saul. I loved you greatly for all these years, goodbye darling. KRAMER--Lola. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Lol
 MERMELSTEIN -- Flora Bockian. 95, died at home in New York, Friday, July 15. She was preceded in death by her husband Martin Mermelstein. She is survived by daughters Barbara Haskel, Rhoda (Noah) Berley and Sara-Jane (William) Cohen, six grandchildren, and six greatgrandchildren. Funeral Mo
 ZINGMAN--Barbara Gold. On July 15. Beloved wife of Edgar. Mother of Aileen, Margaret and Jonathan. Grandmother of seven. Sister of Bette Rosen and Arthur Gold. Mother-in-law of Fred and Ann. We will always hold her close to our hearts and never forget how her laughter and words carried us t
 Geraldine Fitzgerald, a feisty, gravel-voiced Dublin redhead who drew instant acclaim in her first Hollywood films, including a 1939 Oscar nomination for ''Wuthering Heights,'' before carving out a long, varied career in films, television, cabaret and theater, died on Sunday afternoon at he
 BENJAMIN--Joan Ellett, 87, widow of William H. Benjamin, of New York and Garrison, New York, died while swimming in her pool at home in Garrison Saturday, July 16, 2005. She attended the Chapin School, Madeira School, and Bennington College. She was an accomplished sculptor and gardener. Sh
 BENNETT--Violette. Passed away at 93 in Exeter, N.H. July 12, 2005. Born and brought up in Algeria, she met her husband George on an Atlantic crossing. Accompanied by her husband, she continued to be an inveterate traveler, and was very involved with the Phillips Exeter Academy, where she w
 GOTTSEGEN--Rita (Gillette), died suddenly on July 16, 2005, her 78th birthday, in Rye, NY. Survived by her loving husband of 54 years, Dr. Robert Gottsegen. Cherished mother of Dr. David Gottsegen (Shelly), Daniel Gottsegen (Margaret Jackson) and Jonathan Gottsegen (Mindy). Devoted grandmot
 HALL -- Elizabeth Blodgett. The overseers, faculty, staff and alumni/ae of Simon's Rock College of Bard and the trustees of Bard College mourn the passing of the esteemed founder of Simon's Rock, Elizabeth Blodgett Hall. A visionary and courageous leader in education, she was a friend, neig
 KRAMER--Lola. Beloved wife of Saul, mother of Kathie and Robert, grandmother of Charles, Nancie, James, Michael, David and Lesley, beloved great-grandmother of Justice. A life may end but the relationships endure. We loved you then, we love you now, we will love you always and forever.     
 MARKS -- Beatrice. Died peacefully on July 17th at age 105. Aunt Bea is mourned by her loving nephews and nieces.       
 SILBERMAN--Rosalie. Died July 16, 2005, after a lengthy illness. She was born in New York City. She married Alfred Silberman on April 6, 1941. She is survived by her two children, Karen Scott, News Director of WPIX TV, Alan Silberman, a guidance counselor from Baltimore, MD, along with a da
 SIMPSON--Mary McEldowney. The President and Board of Trustees of Vassar College note with deepest sorrow the passing of Mary McEldowney Simpson, beloved wife of the late Alan Simpson, Vassar President from 1964 to 1977. Mary Simpson's wisdom, wit, and generosity and her devotion to the Coll
 WINOGRAD--Mary Ann, on July 17, 2005. Beloved wife of Steven. Loving mother of David. Devoted sister of Kevin, Kathy, Pat and Eileen. Family will receive friends on Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday 10AM, St. St
 Elizabeth Blodgett Hall, an educator who concluded that bored high school students should be sent straight to college and started Simon's Rock College to prove the point, died on Monday in Canaan, Conn. She was 95. Her death was announced by Judith Monachina, spokeswoman for the col
 DOWD -- Margaret Agnes. The staff of The New York Times was deeply saddened by the death of Peggy Dowd, the beloved mother of our colleague Maureen Dowd, on Sunday, July 17. Mrs. Dowd, who was 97, was born when Teddy Roosevelt was still building the Panama Canal and lived to see her childre
 KRAMER--Lola. We mourn the loss of a treasured friend. We will miss her intelligence, her sparkling wit, and her extraordinary courage. She will remain an inspiration for her compassion, her philanthropy, and her devotion to friends and family. Our sincere condolences to her beloved husband
 GELB--Lillian Berger. Passed in Chicago, July 16, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Steven. Mother-in-law of Rita. Proud grandmother of Alexis. Her family and friends will always remember her unique wisdom and insights, and most of all, her wonderful personality and en
 JATLOWSKY--Alice. Died in her home on July 19, 2005 at the age of almost 95. Adored mother of Ethel Jatlowsky and Francine and Alan Rothenberg. Services today at 1 PM at The Riverside Memorial Chapel (Schwartz Bros. Building), Queens Blvd. at 76th Road, Forest Hills, NY. Shiva will be obser
 KRAMER--Lola. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Lola Kramer, a pillar of Jewish life in the greater Palm Beaches. Her unwavering support of the Jewish people and our community will forever serve as
 MAZOUR--Josephine Lurie, born February 2, 1908, in New York City, died quietly at her home on the Stanford University campus July 18, 2005. Both her husband, Professor Anatole Mazour, and her daughter, Natasha Mazour Jorgenson, preceded her in death. She leaves a son, Alexander, and four lo
 DALY--Margaret A., ''Peggy'', (nee Hurley), of Edison, NJ on Thursday, July 21, 2005, age 66. Loving wife of Daniel F. Daly; devoted mother of Daniel J. Daly of Edison and Kathleen Kozak and her husband Bryan of San Antonio, TX; beloved sister of Jack Hurley of Long Island, NY and twin sist
 GILL--T Smyth, artist, devoted wife, beloved aunt and friend to many, June 30 at NY-Presbyterian Hospital. She was born in Rio de Janerio, Brazil, daughter of Samuel Smyth, a marine surveyor for Lloyd's of London and of Elizabeth Smyth. Always loving drawing and painting, she graduated from
 GOODE--Beatrice, passed away on July 20, 2005 after a brief illness. She will be greatly missed by her many friends and relatives. Funeral Services Sunday, July 24, 2005 11 AM, Sinai Chapels, Fresh Meadows, NY. 718-445-0300.       
 JUPITER--Dorothy. On July 20. Beloved wife of the late Wilfred. Adored mother of Dr. Barry Jupiter and Miki Brown. Dear sister of Phyllis Zweben. Proud grandmother of Emily and Michael Jupiter, Sean Maguire and Jennifer Sheppard. Devoted great grandmother of four. She will be deeply missed 
 LEE -- Margaret Erskine. WWII Red Cross Nurse, died July 15, 2005 in Huntington, NY. She was 89. She was born in New York City, September 26, 1915 to Marion and James Erskine and grew up in Locust Valley, NY. She worked with the British Red Cross in the London Blitz, created the first USO i
 SHELDON--Judith West. Died on July 20, 2005. Born and raised in Manhattan, she lived for many years in Concord, MA and then Shelburne, VT. She leaves many friends and family who will miss her spirit, touch, humor and love.       
 SHELLEY--Ruth. On July 21, 2005. Beloved mother of Paul Silagi. Beloved grandmother of Nicole and Todd. Great grandmother of Megan. She loved her family very much. Visiting hours 7-9PM Sunday, funeral service Monday, 1PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 VAN LIEW--Barbara Ferris. Noted architectural historian, preservationist and author, widow of General Harry R. Van Liew, U.S.M.C.R. and a United Airlines pilot passed away at her home in St. James, Long Island. She is survived by children Helen Louise Frohlich of Landrum, South Carolina, Al
 DALY--Margaret A., ''Peggy'', (nee Hurley), of Edison, NJ on Thursday, July 21, 2005, age 66. Loving wife of Daniel F. Daly; devoted mother of Daniel J. Daly of Edison and Kathleen Kozak and her husband Bryan of San Antonio, TX; beloved sister of Jack Hurley of Long Island, NY and twin sist
 FRANKEL--Gloria. On July 21, 2005. She was 83. Gloria cofounded Trimtime Buttons and used both her fashion acumen and high quality standards to build a successful business. She helped others pursue their dreams. Beloved mother of Peter and Eric. Cherished grandmother of Elisabeth and Michae
 LEE -- Margaret Erskine. WWII Red Cross Nurse, died July 15, 2005 in Huntington, NY. She was 89. She was born in New York City, September 26, 1915 to Marion and James Erskine and grew up in Locust Valley, NY. She worked with the British Red Cross in the London Blitz, created the first USO i
 SHELLEY--Ruth. On July 21, 2005. Beloved mother of Paul Silagi. Beloved grandmother of Nicole and Todd. Great grandmother of Megan. She loved her family very much. Visiting hours 7-9PM Sunday, funeral service Monday, 1PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FITZGERALD--Geraldine, died July 17 at the age of 91. Geraldine fought a lengthy battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Her powerful constitution prevailed, but her beautiful mind was lost. Funeral service will be private and a memorial service will be held in the fall. Contributions may be made 
 GOTTSEGEN--Rita (Gillette), died suddenly on July 16, 2005, her 78th birthday, in Rye, NY. Survived by her loving husband of 54 years, Dr. Robert Gottsegen. Cherished mother of Dr. David Gottsegen (Shelly), Daniel Gottsegen (Margaret Jackson) and Jonathan Gottsegen (Mindy). Devoted grandmot
 GROTT--Joan S. 58, Director of the Mamaroneck Library, died July 18, 2005 of complications from breast cancer. She was Director of the Nyack Library (1981-88), President of the Ramapo Catskill Library System from 1984-1986. Director of the Mamaroneck Library since 1988, she helped form the 
 HOEHN--Professor Margaret ''Peggy,'' M.D., age 74, loving mother of Bob and Eve, died on July 16, 2005, at home in Denver, CO. Dr. Hoehn was internationally recognized for her work in Parkinson's disease. A pioneer in Parkinson's research, she developed the first Parkinson rating scale and 
 LEE -- Margaret Erskine. WWII Red Cross Nurse, died July 15, 2005 in Huntington, NY. She was 89. She was born in New York City, September 26, 1915 to Marion and James Erskine and grew up in Locust Valley, NY. She worked with the British Red Cross in the London Blitz, created the first USO i
 LIDDELL -- Jane Hawley Hawkes, age 97, died peacefully at home July 20, 2005 of complications of a stroke. She had remained passionate and involved with her family and her causes until last week. The widow of Donald M. Liddell, Jr., with whom she had celebrated 59 years of marriage, she is 
 SIMON--Melinda Sue McVey, 42, Plantation, FL, danced her way through life across the U.S. and internationally. Raised in New York City on Riverside Drive, she studied with the famous ballet master, George Chaffe, who helped her launch her career, which she continued until her marriage to Jo
 STANDISH--Joan Lloyd. Died July 12, 2005. 75, widow of Major Pery Standish of London, former wife of Peter Wallace of New York, died suddenly in Santa Barbara, California. She will be deeply missed by her children, Cornelia S. Wallace, Campbell LLoydWallace, P. Woodbridge Wallace, sister La
 STURGES--Drusilla Gaye died at home in Chappaqua, New York, on July 9 with her family at her side. Born in Manchester, England, April 23, 1950, she came to the United States with The Royal Ballet in 1970. Her career spanned musical comedy, acting and teaching. She performed in Disney on Par
 SULLIVAN--Janice Oliver. Of Delray Beach, FL, passed away on Sunday July 17, 2005, two months before her 99th birthday. A sculptor and translator of books into braille for the blind, she was formerly of Westport, CT. Her husbands, Lee Oliver and William Sullivan, prede ceased her as did her
 Mary T. Washington, a bookkeeper who in the 1920's began methodically surmounting racial barriers in business to become the first African-American woman to be a certified public accountant and the head of one of the largest black-owned accounting firms in the nation, died on July 2 at a nur
 BARBERICH--Elsie Jahn. On July 21, 2005 in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Norman. Dear sister of the late Johanna Kruger, Leah Bulfinch and Alfred Jahn. Loving aunt of Richard and Shirley Bulfinch of Oregon City, OR, Roger and Kathy Jahn of Monroe, CT, and Robert Jahn of Southingto
 FITZGERALD--Geraldine, died July 17 at the age of 91. Geraldine fought a lengthy battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Her powerful constitution prevailed, but her beautiful mind was lost. Funeral service will be private and a memorial service will be held in the fall. Contributions may be made 
 HILLS -- Mabel Isabelle. Passed away surrounded by her family on Friday, July 22, 2005, in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, at age 82. Beloved wife of Gordon R. Hills of Regina and mother of Eldon R. Hills of NYC. A funeral service in celebration of Mabel's life will be conducted on Wednesday,
 LINDENBERG -- May (nee Shulman). Loving wife of the late Michael. Adored mother of Karen Baye (Sumner). Sister Sylvia Levine (Harvey). Nephews Marty (dec.) Jamie (Angie), Matthew, grandnephew Cody. An incredible woman who made everyone feel special and unique. We shall never forget her. Gra
 PRESSMAN--Sonia. Of Monsey, NY. Died July 23, 2005, of Alzheimer's and stomach cancer. She was the beloved wife of David, dearest mother to Olivia and Leonard, and dear grandmother to Anita, Jessica and Jay, great-grandmother to Devin. We will all miss you.       
 SMILES -- Blanche. Passed away July 23, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Albert, loving mother, sister, aunt and friend. Charming, funny, full of life, an inspiration to all. Loved by all who knew her. She will be profoundly missed. She is survived by her daughters Lynn and Joan Smiles, siste
 BERDACH--Thea, died Friday, July 22, 2005, at Mather Hospital, Port Jefferson, NY at the age of 86. Beloved wife of Fred Berdach. Loving mother of James & Howard Berdach. Devoted daughter of the late Sarah and Jacob Koppelmann. Dear sister of Litza and Sam Schlanger. Fond grandmother of Gab
 CENSOR--Jacques. The Board of Trustees of Yeshiva University and Boards of Directors of its Stern College for Women and Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies mourn the passing of the beloved father of Dr. Monique C. (and Mordecai D.) Katz, vice chairman of the Stern College Board 
 DWORETZ--Mildred, at home, on July 24, at 92 years of age. Profoundly loved wife of the late Philip L. Dworetz. Beloved mother of Susan and Peter Ralston, Linda and Dan Baron, and Steven Dworetz and Susan Taylor. She was the adored ''Nanny'' of her grandchildren, Bob and Merritt Rollins, La
 FAYMAN--Edythe. Died peacefully, July 24, 2005. She was 87. Beloved wife of the late Leo, devoted mother of Stanley (Dianne), Elaine (Martin), cherished grandmother of Noah, Shayna (Brett). Past President of Sisterhood of Golden Lakes Temple and honored volunteer at the Jewish Community Cen
 FINK--Jean C. A longtime Scarsdale resident and tireless advocate for court reform and juvenile justice died on July 14, 2005 at age 88. Mrs. Fink was the daughter of Jacques Coe & Clara Bartels Coe. She was predeceased by her husband, attorney Marvin S. Fink and is survived by two daughter
 LINDENBERG -- May (nee Shulman). Loving wife of the late Michael. Adored mother of Karen Baye (Sumner). Sister Sylvia Levine (Harvey). Nephews Marty (dec.) Jamie (Angie), Matthew, grandnephew Cody. An incredible woman who made everyone feel special and unique. We shall never forget her. Gra
 NYE--Joan Hunter (Mrs. Richard S.) died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT. July 23, 2005. Born in England March 6, 1914, she is survived by nieces Anne A. Hubbard (Mrs. Thomas J.) of Bronxville, NY and Cornwall, CT. and Gillian Attfield of NYC; nephews Ward Cheney of Lincoln, MA., and Hug
 CENSOR--Jacques. We extend heartfelt condolences to Dr. Monique Katz on the loss of her beloved father, a kind, sweet and modest family man. As an officer of the Mozes S. Schupf Foundation, together with her husband Mordecai, Dr. Katz carries on the lofty values of Jewish tradition and ethi
 DWORETZ--Mildred, at home, on July 24, at 92 years of age. Profoundly loved wife of the late Philip L. Dworetz. Beloved mother of Susan and Peter Ralston, Linda and Dan Baron, and Steven Dworetz and Susan Taylor. She was the adored ''Nanny'' of her grandchildren, Bob and Merritt Rollins, La
 LIDDELL -- Jane Hawley Hawkes, age 97, died peacefully at home July 20, 2005 of complications of a stroke. She had remained passionate and involved with her family and her causes until last week. The widow of Donald M. Liddell, Jr., with whom she had celebrated 59 years of marriage, she is 
 NAVON--Shula Eisner. We mourn the death in Jerusalem of our oldest and dearest friend. Haberman-Jones Family NAVON--Shulamith Eisner. We, the Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum (AFIM) and of the Israel Museum (IMJ) mourn the death of our beloved friend and 
 NESTER--Loretta M., of Point Lookout, LI on July 25, 2005. Beloved wife of Martin F. Nester. Loving mother of Dr. Jeanne N. Rolih (Peter A.), Suzanne M. Nester, M. Noel Nester (Glennis) and Dr. Matthew J. Nester (Dr. Elizabeth). Cherished grandmother of Nikolas, Savannah, Sofia, Olivia, Vic
 SHATAN--Norma Altstedter. Died on July 26th, 2005 after a valiant four year battle with cancer. Born July 18th, 1932 in Flushing, NY, Norma was the beloved mother of Gregory Shatan, Gabrielle Shatan, Jessica Heslin and Jeremy Shatan, and mother-in-law of Deborah Elkind, Seymour Pardo, Teren
 SPIVACK--Edith I. The NYC Law Department expresses its sympathy on the passing of Edith I. Spivack, former Executive Assistant Corporation Counsel. Edith served as a role model for all lawyers and public servants. She was one of NYC's first female attorneys, working in our office from 1934 
 TAYLOR--Dolores ''Sunny'' (nee Sunstrom), 77, died July 23, 2005. She lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., Savannah, Ga., and most recently Hightstown N.J. She is survived by husband of 55 years, John C., son John S., two daughters Jane Willis Taylor and Anne Holliday Taylor and four grandchildren. M
 WRIGHT--Ann Hallowell, 85, wife of Judge Douglass B. Wright and widow of Howard (Algie) Ferguson died peacefully Saturday, July 23rd in Hartford, CT. She was a resident of Bloomfield, CT, and lived previously in Merion, PA, Greenwich, West Hartford, Avon, CT and Fishers Island, NY. She leav
 Edith I. Spivack, a tireless lawyer who worked for the New York City Law Department from 1934, when few other women were government lawyers, until last year, when she reluctantly stopped showing up four days a week, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 95.     
 BERG--Doris. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Doris Berg. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest sympathy to her husband, Jack, and their entire family. Earle Yaffa, President Dale Winston,
 CENSOR -- Jacques. The Board of Directors, members and staff of JOFA, the Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance, extend their heartfelt condolences to our valued Board members Dr. Monique Katz and Gail Katz upon the loss of their beloved father and grandfather, Jacques Censor. Nicky, a most dev
 LUBIN -- Carol Riegelman, died on July 26 of heart failure at Lenox Hill Hospital after a very brief illnesss. She was born in 1909; graduated from Smith College in 1930; received an MA and a Ph.D from Columbia University; and was associated professionally with The Carnegie Endowment for In
 NAVON--Shulamith Eisner. Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our dear colleague Shulamith Navon. We will miss the friendship, compassion and generosity of this extraordinary woman who served as Executive Director of the Steinhardt Family Foundation in Is
 NESTER--Loretta. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and employees of Long Beach Medical Center mourn the passing of Loretta Nester, wife of our former Chief Executive Officer, Martin F. Nester, Jr. We will remember Loretta for her efforts on behalf of the Medical Center, her support of Ma
 ROSENOFF--Clara. In her 97th year. Loving wife of the late Julius. Mother of Roberta Greenblatt of Hyde Park, NY and Herbert. Survived by seven grandchildren and eight great - grandchildren. Gra duate of Hunter College, Class of 1928. Taught in NYC Schools for 35 years. Donations to Temple 
 SCHUR--Pauline (nee Ames). 93, died peacefully, July 25, in Philadelphia. She was the mother of Howard C. Katz and Vicki Gradess, grand mother of Betsey, Sara, Adam, Sam and Emily, greatgrandmother of Zachary, Nicholas and John Henry. She will be missed by her loving family and friends.    
 SPIVACK--Edith. The partners, associates and staff of Marcus & Pollack LLP, express their sorrow on the passing of Edith I. Spivack. She was a great public servant to our city, and a friend and mentor to us and also for many others over her long and distinguished career. We extend our since
 BLOCK--Sheila. Died at home on July 27, 2005 after fighting a valiant battle against leukemia. Survived by cherished daughter Ellen (Frommer), loving son - in - law Steve, adored grandchildren Matt and Jenni, life partner Chuck Stroh, mother Fay Kravitz and many valued friends. Sheila spent
 BREKSTONE--Candida Miele. 93, on July 27, 2005. Graduate of NYU School of Law and a successful real estate broker, she proudly owned her own agency, Hudson Valley Realty in Dobbs Ferry for over 40 years. Survived by daughter Barbara Carmenini of Dobbs Ferry, two grandchildren Candace Martin
 CONNEALY--Mary Jo. Vice President and Artist Manager at Columbia Artists, passed away Tuesday morning July 26, 2005 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved son Sean, a specialist in Information Technology at Columbia Artists, and by her brothers and sis
 FINK--Jean C. A longtime Scarsdale resident and tireless advocate for court reform and juvenile justice died on July 14, 2005 at age 88. Mrs. Fink was the daughter of Jacques Coe & Clara Bartels Coe. She was predeceased by her husband, attorney Marvin S. Fink and is survived by two daughter
 FRANCISCUS--Sr. Mary, RSM Came to the fullness of her life July 27, 2005. As educator and administrator within the Brooklyn Diocese Schools, Sr. Mary helped students attain the highest level of achievement. In 1983 Sr. Mary founded Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow to assist economically 
 LERNER--Sylvia H. On July 27 of Roslyn Heights, NY at the age of 88 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Harry Lerner, mother of Laurie (Roy), James (Rosy), and William (Andrea), sister to Irving ''Bud'' Hudson (Elly) of Van Nuys, CA. Sister-in-law to the late Abe and Rose Lerner,
 LUBIN -- Carol Riegelman, died on July 26 of heart failure at Lenox Hill Hospital after a very brief illnesss. She was born in 1909; graduated from Smith College in 1930; received an MA and a Ph.D from Columbia University; and was associated professionally with The Carnegie Endowment for In
 NOBLE--Rose. Of Pompano Beach, FL died peacefully in NYC on July 27. She was active until the very end. Loving wife of the late Harry Noble, devoted mother to her two sons, Kenneth and Bruce, adoring grandmother to Danielle and Joshua. Her grace and charm will be missed by all the lives she
 PALOZZOLO -- Edna. The Board of Trustees, medical staff, and administration of Maimonides Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Edna Palozzolo. We gratefully recognize her 39 years of devoted service to the hospital, culminating in her role as President of the 
 REISER--Elaine. On Friday, July 22, 2005, of NYC. Mother of David (Irene Huntoon) Reiser, Barbara (Pat) D'Innocenzo, Jonathan (Joanne Walton) Reiser and Leonore (Ben Charny) Reiser. Grandmother of four. Gathering of family and friends Saturday, July 30, 2-5PM at her home in New York. For me
 ROSSBACH -- Eleanor, for merly of Riverdale, NY, passed away on July 26. Born in 1916 in Savannah, graduated from Smith College. Wife of the late J. Howard Rossbach. A community activist with interests in art, politics and gerontology, she served on Planning Board 8, Municipal Arts Council,
 SPIVACK--Edith. We mourn the passing of the widow of the late Bernard H. Goldstein, senior partner of Tenzer Greenblatt, Blank Rome's New York predecessor. Spiv, as she was affectionately known to us, was an extraordinary woman. Her remarkable 70 year career will forever be an inspiration t
 BRECKIR--Dorothy K. Died July 29, 2005 in New York City at the age of 97. Her last few years were a struggle between her body and her mind for autonomy. She is finally at rest after a long, productive life. Beside a host of loving and caring friends, wonderfully supportive healthcare givers
 GANG--Fay, 83, on July 28. Wife of Dr. Kenneth Gang. Mother of Kenneth Hirsch. Grandmother of Benjamin Hirsch. She devoted her life to young children and their education.       
 LUBIN -- Carol Riegelman, died on July 26 of heart failure at Lenox Hill Hospital after a very brief illnesss. She was born in 1909; graduated from Smith College in 1930; received an MA and a Ph.D from Columbia University; and was associated professionally with The Carnegie Endowment for In
 MILLER--Janet L. 98, died peacefully on July 22, 2005. She was born in New York City and devoted her life to working with young people as a teacher, the social director of the Horace Mann School in Riverdale and in 1949 founded Camp Merriwood for Girls in Orford, New Hampshire. She is prede
 Hildegarde, whose career as an international cabaret chanteuse spanned almost seven decades and who was credited with starting the single-name vogue among entertainers, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. She was 99. Her death was confirmed yesterday by he
 BELDEN--William A, 80, of Medfield, MA, formerly of Southport, CT and Bedford Hills, NY, July 26, 2005, husband of the late Mary M. (Cluett) Belden. Father of Catherine Cluett Belden and her husband James Nail of Medfield, MA. Also survived by a foster daughter Pinar Oya Yilmaz of Houston, 
 BLOCK--Sheila. Died at home on July 27, 2005 after fighting a valiant battle against leukemia. Survived by cherished daughter Ellen (Frommer), loving son - in - law Steve, adored grandchildren Matt and Jenni, life partner Chuck Stroh, mother Fay Kravitz and many valued friends. Sheila spent
 BOOK--Shirley. For 84 years she lived life by her own rules. Survived by daughter Pamela Marcus, grandson Robert, sister Harriet, nieces Diane and Dede, nephew Paul. We will miss her humor. BOOK--Shirley. Beloved sister and aunt. Lived life her way. Rest in Peace. You will be missed
 BRECKIR--Dorothy K. Died July 29, 2005 in New York City at the age of 97. Her last few years were a struggle between her body and her mind for autonomy. She is finally at rest after a long, productive life. Beside a host of loving and caring friends, wonderfully supportive healthcare givers
 DEHN--Virginia Engleman. Age 82, died suddenly at her home in Santa Fe, NM on July 28, 2005. Born in Nevada, MO on October 26, 1922, Virginia moved to Connecticut as a child and grew up in Hamden, CT. Virginia graduated from Stephens College and studied at the Art Students League in New Yor
 HARDING--Helen. A Holocaust survivor, born in Yugoslavia, passed away at the age of 100. She and her late partner in life Mane, and their son Ray, found a new and happy life in America, the land of opportunity. She is survived by her loving family, Ray and Liz, Russell, Bob and Fran, Rachae
 HOROWITZ--Ruth. On July 23, 2005, age 94. The NYU Steinhardt School of Education mourns the loss of our dear friend and benefactor, Ruth Horowitz. Author, teacher, lecturer, teaching supervisor, and Steinhardt alumna, Ruth mentored hundreds of students and influenced generations of teachers
 LADENSON--Irene Akhimoff. Died this past winter, on January 15, 2005, in New York City. Born in the Bronx on January 22, 1931, she attended the University of Pennsylvania and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. She worked as a restorer of paintings and photographs, and was a longtime vol
 MacCRACKEN--Eleanor D., 86, died on July 29, 2005, at her home in New York City. The daughter of Eleanor G. and Charles A. Dickson, of Pittsburgh, she attended the Ellis School in that city and was a graduate of Miss Hall's School and Vassar College (Class of 1940). From 1949 to 1974 she li
 MARBER--Patricia, recently of Boca Raton, Florida, died on Thursday, July 28 in Norwalk, Connecticut. Retired Investment Manager and Life Master Bridge Player, she was a tenacious competitor in all aspects of her life. She is survived by her brother William Burke, her three children, Cynthi
 MORAN--Ruth M. Of Huddleston, VA and formerly of White Plains and Suffern, died July 28, 2005. She was preceded in death by her husband, Brian T. Moran, Jr. She was the daughter of Lina and Gotthilf Merkle and the surviving sister of six siblings. She is survived by two sons and two grandch
 NOBLE--Rose. Of Pompano Beach, FL died peacefully in NYC on July 27. She was active until the very end. Loving wife of the late Harry Noble, devoted mother to her two sons, Kenneth and Bruce, adoring grandmother to Danielle and Joshua. Her grace and charm will be missed by all the lives she
 OSTROW--Louisette Mellen (1921-2005) has passed on with grace, surrounded by love--she will be sorely missed. Louisette (Lou) will always be in our hearts; her love and caring touched many lives. Lou was predeceased by her first husband, Werner Mellen, her daughter Diana Louise Mellen, and 
 SCHUR--Pauline (nee Ames). 93, died peacefully, July 25, in Philadelphia. She was the mother of Howard C. Katz and Vicki Gradess, grand mother of Betsey, Sara, Adam, Sam and Emily, greatgrandmother of Zachary, Nicholas and John Henry. She will be missed by her loving family and friends.    
 SPIVACK--Edith. The partners, associates and staff of Marcus & Pollack LLP, express their sorrow on the passing of Edith I. Spivack. She was a great public servant to our city, and a friend and mentor to us and also for many others over her long and distinguished career. We extend our since
 SPRUNG--Ruth. Died peacefully on July 28 at home with her devoted daughter Trudy at her side. Ruth was a loving and caring mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and wife of 41 years to her late husband Sol. She was a respected NYC public school teacher. She loved all things New York. She 
