 BELL-Wilma S. Age 90. A resident of Larchmont, N.Y. for most of her life, died Sunday, in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, N.Y. after a six month battle with cancer. She was predeceased by her husband Clinton M. Bell. Mrs. Bell is survived by her son Stanley P. Bell and his wife The Rev. Cynt
 DECHERT-Lela E. On November 26, at age 78. Beloved wife of the late William E. Dechert of Chas. Pfizer & Co. She is survived by her two sons Daniel H. Lavezzo, III, and W. Douglas Dechert; her grandson Christian E. Dechert; her great-grandson Booker Lewis Dechert; and by her brother John D.
 KAUFMAN-Rita Skydell. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a life member and respected leader of the YU Women's Organization who was devoted to advancing the ideals of our heritage and imparted this legacy in word and deed to her children: the late Judith, and 
 KOOB-Julia Ashley (Nee Shanet). At age 85. As Julia Ashley she taught English at Woodrow Wilson Vocational High School, Erasmus High School, High School of Art and Design. A bright and warm loving person. She touched the minds and hearts of all who knew her. She was the wife of Harry, the m
 PENAS-Fran. On November 29, 1999. Daughter of the late Enrique and Minnie Penas. She is survived by her life partner, Julie Gonzalez and her brother Henry Penas and mourned by her family and many friends. Memorial services will be held at The Church of the Holy Apostles, 28 Street and 9th A
 ROSNER-Mae. On November 29, 1999. Predeceased by her siblings Rose Amster, Harry and Moe. Dear aunt of Joyce Mace, Richard Amster and David Rosner.       
 SCHONBRUNN-Gertrude Goodkind. Formerly of Scarsdale, New York, died on November 29, 1999 after 89 wonderful years of life. She really lived the life prescribed by her Ethical Culture schooling from kindergarten through Fieldston. The first volunteer of The Children's Place. The wife of Albe
 ZIRINSKY-Kathryn Ann, 44, on November 24, 1999, after a courageous battle with colon cancer. Devoted wife of Robert. Adored Mom and best friend of Ralph, Elissa and Harry. Beloved daughter of Phyllis and Thomas Sinatra. Dear sister of Nina, Frank and Carla. Cherished daughter-in-law of Ruth
 DECHERT-Lela E. On November 26, at age 78. Beloved wife of the late William E. Dechert of Chas. Pfizer & Co. She is survived by her two sons Daniel H. Lavezzo, III, and W. Douglas Dechert; her grandson Christian E. Dechert; her great-grandson Booker Lewis Dechert; and by her brother John D.
 FOSTER-Elizabeth Read, 87, historian and educator, died peacefully in her home November 27, 1999 in Wayne, PA. She was born on June 26, 1912 in Chicago, the daughter of Conyers Read, a historian, and Edith Coulson Kirk Read. She grew up in Villanova, PA., and graduated from Vassar College i
 KAUFMAN-Rita. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs and especially Midreshet Lindenbaum, its faculty and student body, records with deep sorrow the passing of Rita Kaufman, a magnificent, majestic matriarch in Israel. She was a woman of rare honesty and integrity who knew exactly w
 METZGER-Carolyn. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of Carolyn Metzger, whose love for JTS was legendary. She, along with her husband Lawrence z''l, was a staunch supporter of JTS for more than a quarter of a century through her devoted service to the Torah
 PENAS-Fran. On November 29, 1999. Daughter of the late Enrique and Minnie Penas. She is survived by her life partner, Julie Gonzalez and her brother Henry Penas and mourned by her family and many friends. Memorial services will be held at The Church of the Holy Apostles, 28 Street and 9th A
 SVENSSON WENDEL-Elaine S. Her family mourns the death of Elaine Svensson Wendel, wife of Charles; mother of her beloved 10 month old sons Ben and Sam; daughter of Eileen and Holgar. Elaine, 49, was a consultant, writer, and editor. She died on November 30, at home, from ovarian cancer. In l
 Phoebe Snetsinger, who saw and recorded more birds than anybody else, died on Nov. 23 in a van accident on a birding expedition to Madagascar, shortly after viewing an exceptionally rare Helmet vanga. She was 68 and lived in Webster Groves, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis. Birding went f
 AARON-Sylvia. The Board of Directors, Staff and Members of the Central Queens YM&YWHA record with deep sorrow the passing of Sylvia Aaron, beloved mother of Jeffrey Aaron, our esteemed past President. Mrs. Aaron and her late husband Bernard were founders of the Y, and she transmitted her co
 BERNBAUM-Keren-Or. On December 2. Cherished daughter of Harry and Harriet Bernbaum, loving sister and sister-in-law to Hank and Ann Bernbaum, adored aunt of Alexis, Haleigh, Jonathan, and Matthew. Funeral services will be held on December 5, 12:30P.M. at The Piser Chapel, 9200 Skokie Blvd.,
 CAMPBELL-Kay. A resident of Larchmont, NY for 30 years. Died Monday, Nov. 29, in Washington, D.C. She was predeceased by her husband, Douglas Campbell. She is survived by her daughters Jean Campbell Barquin of Bethesda, MD, Margaret Campbell Robison of Westport, CT, & a son, Douglas Campbel
 CHAPLIN-Virginia T. The National Board of the YWCA of the U.S.A. is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of Virginia T. Chaplin, National Board member from 1970 to 1982 and one of its Vice Presidents, a member of the World Service Council from 1982 to the present and President of the YWCA of 
 COUGHLIN-Elizabeth (Aunt Liz) On November 1, 1999. Loving sister of Francis, the late Daniel and Augustine (Uncle Brother). Loving, helpful and caring aunt to ten nieces and nephews and 21 grand nieces and grand nephews. Former Chief Archivist of American Mental Climax, past President of So
 DORION-Marta F., on December 1, 1999 of Harrington Park, NJ. She was a writer and journalist for Time, Inc. in New York City for 38 years. Beloved wife of Peter. Devoted mother of Jennifer. Dear sister of Michael B. Fitzgerald of Saratoga Springs, NY. Funeral Mass, Saturday 10 A.M. at the O
 FOSTERIS-Maria (nee Dinescu). October 31, 1999. Mother and wife. She kept her family together for 70 years. Burial Thursday in Nassau Knolls Cemetery.       
 FREEDMAN-Maxine. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our Honorary Trustee, supporter of Israel and devoted Jew. Condolences to her loving family.       
 FRIEDLER-Ada. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member, Hannah Fischberger and family on the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, Pres. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 KAUFMAN-Rita. Her home was our house of delights when we were children visiting New York. As adults, we learned from her strength, often cited by our mother, as Aunt Rita met the triumphs and tragedies of her life. Happy memories of Aunt Rita, Uncle Ben, and their splendid children are a bl
 LIEBLICH-Manette. The Board of Governors and members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and longtime member, Manette Lieblich. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest condolences to her family. Robert Fagenson, Pres. Jane Guadagno, Secy.      
 LIEBLICH-Mannette. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of The Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their long time friend and member, Mrs. Mannette Lieblich. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary       
 MANN-Florence. Died Dec. 1 in St. Peter's Hospital at 92. She was a loving mother & grandmother to surviving daughter Arlene Mintz, son Dr. Barton Mann, six grandchildren & 3 great grandchildren. Her family sits Shiva at daughter's home, 21 Sagamore Lane, East Brunswick, NJ, December 3-7. M
 MARTIN-Loretta (nee McCort). On Nov. 29, 1999 at Huntington, Long Island, formerly of Garden City. Wife of the late Joseph A. Martin. Survived by her cousins, Anne Gilbert and Barbara Carlson. For information please contact Fairchild Sons Funeral Home, Garden City, NY. Mass of Christian bur
 PETERS-Viola (Funaro). On November 30, 1999 at 99 years of age. Retired, long-time vocal coach and pianist, faculty member at Juilliard School of Music. Widow of the late Bruno Funaro. Reposing Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home, 117 W. 72 Street, N.Y. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10AM, Holy 
 POMERANTZ-Gerta. On November 2, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Freddy Pomerantz. Dear mother of Leslie Fay Pomerantz and John and Laura Pomerantz. Adored grandmother of Andrew and Lynn Gross, Frederick (Ricky) Coff, Andrea and Matthew Lustig, Susan and Kevin Davis, and Marnie. Great-grandmo
 SNOWDEN-Marie Kiely. On December 2, 1999 at age 84. Beloved wife of the late James M. Snowden. Mother of James Snowden Jr. and Suzanne S. Rentschler. Grandmother of Katherine K. Snowden, Suzanne O. Snowden, Adam Snowden Rentschler, Charles F. Rentschler, and Marie K. Rentschler. Interment p
 SVENSSON WENDEL-Elaine S. Her family mourns the death of Elaine Svensson Wendel, wife of Charles; mother of her beloved 10 month old sons Ben and Sam; daughter of Eileen and Holgar. Elaine, 49, was a consultant, writer, and editor. She died on November 30, at home, from ovarian cancer. In l
 WAGNER-Eleanor. The Administration and Board of Directors of the Rodeph Sholom School mourns the loss of Eleanor Wagner, beloved mother of Board member Claudia Wagner. May her blessed memory be a consolation to Claudia, her husband, Don Lebowitz, and to their children, Zev and Ezra. David N
 WARM-Bluma (nee Nelson). Loving widow of Harry Schenker, Irving Cohen, Joseph Warm; cherished mother of Marvin Schenker and Helen Stritzler; beloved grandmother of Harold, Jan, Alan, Nina, Suzanne; loving great-grandmother of Zachary, Ben, Jonathan, Alyssa, Abigail, Elliot, Rebekah; devoted
 WILLOWS-Judy. The Maternity Center Association's Board of Directors and friends mourn the passing of a dear friend and past President who deeply believed in our organization's ideals and vision on behalf of mothers, babies and their families. Her kindness, grace and generosity touched the l
 WHITTAKER-Nell Gardner. 12/3/40-10/22/88. Deeply loved, forever missed. Her famil       
 Madeline Kahn, the Oscar-nominated comedian best known for her work in the films ''Paper Moon'' and ''Blazing Saddles'' and in the Broadway revival of ''Born Yesterday,'' died yesterday in a Manhattan hospital. She was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer,  said J
 BERNBAUM-Keren-Or. On December 2. Cherished daughter of Harry and Harriet Bernbaum, loving sister and sister-in-law to Hank and Ann Bernbaum, adored aunt of Alexis, Haleigh, Jonathan, and Matthew. Funeral services will be held on December 5, 12:30P.M. at The Piser Chapel, 9200 Skokie Blvd.,
 DURAM-Maggie (nee Barnett), of New Canaan, CT, passed away on December 1, 1999 in the Chestnut Hill Benevolent Association in Brookline, MA. She was an active member of the Christian Science Church in New Canaan, CT and she created Maggie Duram Interiors. Maggie touched many people with her
 SNOWDEN-Marie Kiely. On December 2, 1999 at age 84. Beloved wife of the late James M. Snowden. Mother of James Snowden Jr. and Suzanne S. Rentschler. Grandmother of Katherine K. Snowden, Suzanne O. Snowden, Adam Snowden Rentschler, Charles F. Rentschler, and Marie K. Rentschler. Interment p
 TOBIN-Rae Katz Age 85, died on Monday, November 29, 1999. The light in Rae's eyes showne with intelligence, love, good humor and wit. With heart and mind, she nurtured her family, fought for a better world and nursed her husband Mike through his terrible battle with Alzheimer's. She left th
 WILLOWS-Judy. The Board of Directors, Advisory Board and staff of the Art Omi International Arts Center mourn the passing of our beloved board member and founder of the Music Omi Int'l Musicians' Residency Program, Judy Willows. Judy's zest for life and love of the arts inspired all who kne
 Lucile Petry Leone, the founding director of the United States Cadet Nurse Corps, which recruited more than 100,000 young women to study nursing and helped spare the country of the need to draft nurses in World War II, died on Nov. 25 at an assisted-living center in San Francisco. She was 9
 DENNIS-Sharon Ann. Beloved mother, daughter, grandmother and wife. Died November 30, 1999 in Tucson, Arizona. A beautiful & inspirational woman who devoted her life to literacy and education. She dearly loved her New York Times and Crossword. She is profoundly missed. Please send all donati
 DISRAELY-Patricia. On December 1. Beloved mother of Janna Disraeli and Lisa Mankes. Loving grandmother of Jane, Zoe and Remi. Dear sister of Leslie Meckler. Always by her side, her best friend Marcia Kahan.       
 GRUNAUER-Phyllis. Of New York, NY, on December 3, 1999. Beloved relative, friend and teacher. Mrs. Grunauer, a lifelong champion of human rights, served in the Human Resources Administration of NYC for many years. Thereafter, she taught at Touro College, where she was the acting head of the
 KAHN-Madeline. All of us at Kaufman Astoria Studios are deeply saddened by the loss of this wonderful woman who brightened our lives and the stages that she worked on and loved. We will always recall her laughter and grace and remember her fondly. Madeline brought such joy to the world. Eve
 McNALLY-Claire O'Brien Zeppie. December 3, 1999. Died suddenly in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Vincent, Clarita and Christopher. Devoted grandmother of Melissa, Christopher and Mary Jane. Also survived by her step-daughters Jeanne and Patricia McNally and her stop-son Vincent McNally
 ROSE-Sylvia Maria. died suddenly at her home on Wednesday, December 1, 1999. She was born in Baghdad, Iraq on December 27, 1926, daughter of Catherine Behnan Arbuthnott of England and the late Cyril George Arbuthnott of Ootacumund, India. She was a graduate of National College of Shwaifat o
 ROSENBERG-Rose., of Sunrise, FL., formerly a resident of Brooklyn, died on November 29, 1999, 93 years young. She leaves behind her brother, Seymour; her daughters, Shelley Lazarus (husband, Herb), Linda Basile (husband, Joseph); her nephews, Gary, Stephen and Ira Rosenthal, whom she loved 
 SNOWDEN-Marie Kiely. On December 2, 1999 at age 84. Beloved wife of the late James M. Snowden. Mother of James Snowden Jr. and Suzanne S. Rentschler. Grandmother of Katherine K. Snowden, Suzanne O. Snowden, Adam Snowden Rentschler, Charles F. Rentschler, and Marie K. Rentschler. Interment p
 Nilde Iotti, an early leader of the Italian Communist Party and the first woman to become president of the lower house of Parliament, died Friday night of heart failure after a long illness, the news agency ANSA reported. She was 79. Ms. Iotti, who served as a Partisan during World 
 AULT-Allie Burchenal The officers, directors and staff of the Episcopal Church Foundation express their deep sadness at the death of Allie Burchenal Ault. Mrs. Ault was a member of the Foundation's Board since 1973, representing an extension of a family commitment since the Foundation's inc
 GOLDSTEIN-Betty On December 4, 1999. Beloved mother of Paul and mother-in-law of Barbara. Loving grandmother of Peter and Jeffrey and their wives, Wendy and Julie, and great-grandmother of Jeremy, Evan and Lauren. She was an amazing and remarkable woman who was graduated from New York Unive
 HANRAHAN - Thomas, Sister, RSHM 92, on December 4, in Tarrytown, NY. Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary for 71 years. Educator at: St. Thomas Aquinas School, Bronx; Sacred Heart of Mary Schools: Bronx, Manhattan, Sag Harbor, NY, Rolling Meadows, IL; Marymount School, Umtali, Rhodesia (no
 KNICK-Alice Alice Knick was a loyal and dedicated Reform Democrat. As District Leader for the Lexington Democratic Club, she was a leader in every sense of the word. Alice was a continuing source of enlightenment and assistance for her Turtle Bay constituents, updating them on political can
 McNALLY-Claire O'Brien Zeppie December 3, 1999. Died suddenly in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Vincent, Clarita and Christopher. Devoted grandmother of Melissa, Christopher and Mary Jane. Also survived by her step-daughters Jeanne and Patricia McNally and her stop-son Vincent McNally.
 SNOWDEN-Marie Kiely On December 2, 1999 at age 84. Beloved wife of the late James M. Snowden. Mother of James Snowden Jr. and Suzanne S. Rentschler. Grandmother of Katherine K. Snowden, Suzanne O. Snowden, Adam Snowden Rentschler, Charles F. Rentschler, and Marie K. Rentschler. Interment pr
 WONDOLOWSKI - Catherine Professor of Nursing at the Hunter College CUNY-Bellevue School of Nursing from 1968-1994. Professor Wondolowski was Director of Geriatric Nursing Program, Interim Dean, Project Director of the Geriatric Nurse Practitioner Program, and Fellow of the Hunter College Br
 WRIGHT-Mary Catherine Rita (nee Hehir) Died on December 3, 1999 in Overlook Hospital, Summit, NJ after a brief illness. Born in NYC, July 25, 1912. Resided in Brooklyn before moving to Scotch Plains, NJ 44 years ago. Maintained a summer residence in Breezy Point, NY for many years. For many
 Rose E. Bird, who became the first woman on California's Supreme Court and whose resolute opposition to the death penalty later led voters to remove her as chief justice, died of complications from breast cancer on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 63.       
 Anne Francine, an actress who worked in film, theater and television and who was also a prominent cabaret performer for six decades, died on Friday at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in London, Conn. She was 82 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Born into Main Line Philadelphia society
 AULT-Allie B. The Members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Allie Ault, and send condolences to her family.       
 CORCORAN-Johanna (Joan). On December 5, 1999. Loving mother of Jacqueline and Jennifer Corcoran and Joan and her husband, Richard Green. Cherished grandmother of Hannah. Dear sister of Kathleen Mollick-Kelly. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday and 
 FREE-Adele (Mallan), a long time resident of Bronxville, NY., died peacefully on Sunday, December 5, 1999 in Bloomfield, CT at the age of 96. She was born in Washington, D.C. on January 16, 1903 to Dr. Thomas Francis Mallan and Mrs. Marie Adele Blaine Mallan. Adele grew up in Washington, D.
 GEARTY-Harriet F., 91. Passed away on December 3, 1999. She was the loving wife of George F. Gearty who preceded her in death in 1971. Mrs. Gearty was born on July 18, 1908 in NYC. Dedicated 42 years as a teacher in NYC public schools. She was loved and respected greatly by colleagues. In r
 JACOBS-Rose. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Rose Jacobs, mother of Dr. Francine Fettman, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Exe
 McNALLY-Claire O'Brien Zeppie. December 3, 1999. Died suddenly in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Vincent, Clarita and Christopher. Devoted grandmother of Melissa, Christopher and Mary Jane. Also survived by her step-daughters Jeanne and Patricia McNally and her stop-son Vincent McNally
 MINTZ-Anna. On December 5, 1999 in Long Beach, N.Y. Widow of Joe. Beloved mother, mother-inlaw, grandmother. Her life of unlimited love that she gave to us will always be remembered.       
 NISENSON-Leo. On Sunday, December 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Fay. Devoted father of Iris Graff and her husband Allan and Kenneth Nisenson. Cherished grandfather of Sherry and Bret Graff. Dear brother of Milly Arno, Lorraine Husack and Jules Nisenson. Services 1 PM today at Louis Suburban C
 PADDOCK-Frances Clucas, 81, of Lenox, MA and Nevis, West Indies; active champion of environmental causes in Berkshire County; devoted wife of the late Franklin Kittredge Paddock, MD, died on December 5 in Nevis. Survived by her son Lowell Clucas Paddock of Frankfort, Germany; her daughter C
 PUTNAM-Dorothy Von Elm. Of East Hampton, NY on December 2, 1999 at age 87. Beloved wife of the late John L. Putnam. Mother of John L. Putnam, Jr. of Riverside CT and the late Nancy de la Vega of Madrid Spain. Also survived by daughter-in-law Andrea Putnam, granddaughters, Wendy Putnam and J
 SCHERBATOW-Princess Kathleen Cole McLoughlin. Princess Scherbatow died unexpectedly on Sunday, 5 December, 1999 at Lenox Hill Hospital after a short illness. Born in Briarcliff, NY on 18 September, 1914, she was the daughter of Gregory Van Zandt McLoughlin, a decendant of Peter Stuyvesant. 
 WEINER-Leslie Fischbein. Beloved mother of Glynn, sister of Peter, daughter of the late Saul and Frances Fischbein. Aunt of Pamela and Scott. Died December 5th after a long illness. Leslie will be remembered for the strength and courage she showed in the face of many adversities. We willmis
 WONDOLOWSKI-Catherine. We mourn the death of our beloved and respected colleague and friend and Brookdale Fellow. Our sympathies to her family. The Board and Staff The Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College       
 Eleanor Brussel, the founder and former director of the Horace Mann School for Nursery Years in Manhattan, died on Sunday at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx. She was 94. Mrs. Brussel spent five decades in the company of preschoolers, founding several schools and a camp for them. Sh
 BRUSSEL-Eleanor. 94, of Riverdale, NY on December 5. Beloved wife of the late George Brussel, Jr. Mother of Charles A. Reich, Peter and Lee Reich, Valerie and James Levy, Margery Manber, the late Laurie Brussel and the late George Brussel III. Grandmother of Daniel Reich and Mary Draper, Al
 CORCORAN-Johanna (Joan). On December 5, 1999. Loving mother of Jacqueline and Jennifer Corcoran and Joan and her husband, Richard Green. Cherished grandmother of Hannah. Dear sister of Kathleen Mollick-Kelly. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday and 
 FARLEY-Harriet Severance McPherson, died December 4, 1999 of cancer at age 84 at the Edgehill Retirement Community in Stamford, after living many years in Greenwich. Daughter of the late Marjorie and Walter McPherson of New York City. She attended the Ethel Walker School and graduated from 
 FIALA-M. Susan of Pound Ridge, NY on December 7, 1999. Beloved wife and companion of Rudolph for 51 years. Loving mother of Jennifer, Christopher, Pamela, Timothy and Geoffrey. Cherished grandmother of Sarah, Andrew, Peter, Robin, Wendy, Emily, Deborah, Colleen, Marina, Thomas and Maggie. D
 FULWEILER-Mrs. Spencer B. (Patricia L. Platt). The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. notes with profound sorrow the passing of its distinguished President, Mrs. Spencer B. Fulweiler (Patricia L. Platt), on December 6, 1999. Mrs. Fulweiler had served as President of the Foundation
 NOBOA-Maria Leonore. The Beth Israel Medical Center family is deeply saddened by the death of Maria Leonore Noboa, dear sister of our friend Alvaro Noboa, and beloved daughter of Isabel Ponton. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family and all who loved her. Morton P. Hyma
 ROSAN-Menorah J. Beloved mother of Alan, Shira, Naomi and Deborah; devoted wife of the late Howard; dear grandmother of Seth, Daniel, Hayim and Lior who will miss ''Nunu''. Died December 7th with family in attendance. Menorah was a parent and teacher at Spuyten Duyval Infantry. She was an a
 SHEEAN-Mary Dooley, 84. Died on December 6 of Alzheimer's Disease. Devoted wife of the late James B. Sheean and mother of Emily Van Ness Schurin, James B. Sheean, Deirdre Sheean, Michael Sheean and Molly Black, beloved grandmother of Alessandra Jarret, Zachary, Cody, Matthew, Nathaniel Hail
 TOBIN-Rae Katz. Age 85, died on Monday, Nov. 29, 1999. The light in Rae's eyes shone with intelligence, love, good humor and wit. With heart and mind, she nurtured her family, fought for a better world and nursed her husband Mike through his terrible battle with Alzheimer's. She left the wo
 Margaret A. Greenfield, a founder and officer of the Independent Journalism Foundation and a dealer in art, antiques and real estate, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 74. She had cancer, said her husband, James L. Greenfield. Beginning 
 ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the untimely and tragic loss of Nina Alexander, a dedicated and generous supporter who embraced the values of her distinguished philanthropic family. She was a devoted wife and mother, a suc
 BECKER-Marilyn. Beloved wife, mother, daughter, friend, community activist, writer, therapist and teacher, died peacefully on November 24, 1999, surrounded by her husband, Jack Kobliska, and daughters, Rosey and Annie. Marilyn was an exceptional person who is deeply loved. We will remember 
 BROWN-Marion Rhodes. Of Ardsley-on-Hudson, died November 30, 1999 at her home. She was born April 8, 1909 in New York City. She received her B.A. from Barnard College in 1930 and then taught history at Walton High School. She married the late John Albert Brown in 1943. She obtained her Ph.D
 CLAUS-Mary Dann. Died on December 7 at Greenwich Hospital after a fierce battle with cancer. She was an active 25-year resident of Bedford, NY, and had a successful career as an associate broker and real estate agent with Houlihan Lawrence Real Estate Centers in her own town. Mary spent mos
 DARROW-Rose Levine. Age 102, of Hillsdale, NJ. Formerly of NYC. Survived by her son Dr. Stanley and daughter-in-law Vivienne; daughter, Phyllis and son-in-law Herbert Ross; grandchildren, Jon, Dr. David, Andrew and Liz, Dr. Jeff and Val Ross, Deb Ross and Dr. Leo Podolsky; great-grandchildr
 FIALA-Susan. Friends and colleagues mourn the loss of our fellow Director and honored Master Teacher. We will dearly miss her wise counsel, and faithful service. Alden Prouty, Chair Rippowam Cisqua School Alumni Association       
 GREENFIELD-Margaret A. died on December 8 after a long illness. She was an art and antiques dealer in London, Washington, D.C., and New York, most recently running Marco Polo on Madison Avenue. She renovated residential real estate in New York. In 1991, she co-founded The Independent Journa
 MONNESS-Billie Heller. Because of you we are. We love you forever. Ruth and Marshall Ames MONNESS-Billie Heller. Words cannot convey the richness of the life of Billie Heller Monness, which ended peacefully on December 8, 1999. Breast cancer could never diminish the passion and joy 
 SALE-Faith. All who knew her will miss her, but she will remain forever in the hearts she helped to enliven and the books she helped to create. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Pen Writer's Fund. A Memorial is planned for January.       
 TRAUM-Sadie. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Sadie Traum. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her daughter Alice Booth and to other members of her family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President       
 ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander.
 BROWN-Marion Rhodes. Of Ardsley-on-Hudson, died November 30, 1999 at her home. She was born April 8, 1909 in New York City. She received her B.A. from Barnard College in 1930 and then taught history at Walton High School. She married the late John Albert Brown in 1943. She obtained her Ph.D
 LoROCCO-Lee. Age 79, of NYC. Died on Thursday, December 2 at Cabrini Nursing Home. A tribute will be offered at 11AM on Sunday, December 12 at Andrett's Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave NYC. Ms. LoRocco owned and operated a hair salon for many years in the Gramercy Park area. Born in Jersey City, 
 MASOFF-Dora. Of Sag Harbor New York, on December 8, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Laura & Lewis Kruger, Joy and Louis Scolnick, and the late Myrna Masoff. Dear sister of Gabriel Galperin and the late Leon Galperin. Adored grandmother of Hillary, Alix, Alexander and
 PRINCE-Suzanne Jill. Writer, died December 8, 1999 in Los Angeles, Calif. Born November 19, 1950 in Brooklyn New York, she spent her early career as a writer for several of the top advertising agencies in Manhattan. She moved to Los Angeles, her new favorite city with her companion, produce
 SALE-Faith. All who knew her will miss her, but she will remain forever in the hearts she helped to enliven and the books she helped to create. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Pen Writer's Fund. A Memorial is planned for January.       
 SCHARFMAN-Frances. On Friday, December 3, 1999, (nee Saffer), wife of the late Hyman Scharfman; mother of Miriam Zadek, Sylvia Bravin and Shirley Zupka; sister of Samuel Saffer. Mrs. Scharfman is also survived by ten grandchildren, 20 great grandchildren and four greatgreat grandchildren. T
 SIEGEL-Sylvia. Passed away in Hollywood, FL. on December 7th. Formerly of New York City. Predeceased by husband Sidney and son Jay. Survived by her beloved daughter Barbara (Larry) Stern, three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Funeral services in Florida. Contributions in her me
 VAN BUREN-Margaret. We mourn the loss of our beloved founding member whose gifts of penetrating intelligence, keen observation, loving and concerned friendship, and profound faith strengthened us for many years. She is forever in our hearts as we were in hers. The Wednesday Morning Women's 
 ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander.
 ARONOWITZ-Evelyn G. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Evelyn G. Aronowitz, beloved mother of Ellin Delsener. We extend condolences to Ellin and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 COHN-Adrienne. Loving wife of Al. Mother of Arnold and Tanya, Edward and Janice; sister of Alan and adored grandmother of Jesse and Emily. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 LIN-Ho-Chi (nee Huang), retired Medical Social Worker at New York Presbyterian Hospital, died on December 6, 1999. She is survived by husband Edward Y.T. Lin, a leader of the New York Fujian community, daughter Nancy H. Lin, and granddaughters Carolyn and Lauren. Viewing Sun. Dec. 12th Chin
 PRINCE-Suzanne Jill. Writer, died December 8, 1999 in Los Angeles, Calif. Born November 19, 1950 in Brooklyn New York, she spent her early career as a writer for several of the top advertising agencies in Manhattan. She moved to Los Angeles, her new favorite city with her companion, produce
 Elizabeth Zimmermann, who brought a penetrating intellect and a sculptor's sensitivity to revolutionizing the ancient art of knitting, died Nov. 30 at a hospital in Marshfield, Wis., where she lived. She was 89. Mrs. Zimmermann's best-known gift to knitting was a mathematical formul
 Jeanne S. Chall, a leading expert on how children learn to read and a vociferous antagonist in at least two of the major educational controversies of the last quarter-century, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Ariadne Valsa
 ALEXANDER-Virginia T.. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander
 BALTER-Marjiann Kurtz. On December 9, 1999. Beloved wife of Henry. Loving mother of Jason M. and his wife, Candace. Adoring grandmother of Amanda Ann. Also survived by John Kurtz. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 St. Contributions in her memory may be made to '
 BILLMYER-Nieves M.. prominent abstract artist passed away on November 24. She was 89. Service was held on November 28.       
 FUCHS-Winifred Green. Died in Tarpon Springs, FL, December 8. Wife of the late Lawrence Fuchs. Survived by daughter and son-inlaw Merry and Doug Tourtelot, Seattle, WA; son and daughter-inlaw, Don and Seemona Fuchs, Wyckoff, NJ; sister and brother-inlaw, Barbara and Wallace Ponder, Palm Har
 FULWEILER-Patricia Platt. Of New York, NY and Norwalk, CT died Dec. 6,1999 of complications followimg a stroke. She was the widow of Spencer Biddle Fulweiler, mother of Lisa Fulweiler Allen, Pamela Spencer Fulweiler, Hull Platt Fulweiler, and Spencer Biddle Fulweiler, Jr. and grandmother of
 GRUBER-Jessie. 90 years young, of Brooklyn Heights, NY. On December 8, 1999. Loving sister to Golden, Eva and Mary. She also leaves behind nephew Morton and niece Susan, whom she treated as her own children, their families, five grandnieces and one greatgrandniece. The planet lost a unique 
 HAHN-Mary. On December 6, 1999. Beloved sister of Faye Schutzberger and Morris Hahn. Aunt of Anne Schutzberger, Irwin Hahn, Iris Hahn, Robin Faber. Donations in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Association, 360 Lexington Ave., 5th fl, NYC 10017.       
 HEDDEN-Mabel Minton., 94, died peacefully November 27, 1999 at her home in Walnut Creek, CA. She and her late husband Stuart Hedden, lived in New Milford, CT, Vero Beach, FL, and Orinda, CA before settling in Walnut Creek. She will be missed by her four grandchildren, Stuart Hedden Green of
 JANIS-Celia. Died at age 83 on December 5, 1999 in Pensacola, FL. Beloved mother of Paula Janis Conrad and devoted sister of Thomas Karczewski. She will be missed.       
 MUCHNICK-Jan. The members of the Steering Committee of Partners in Women's Health at the Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center of Long Island Jewish Hospital are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague. Her devotion and exuberance was inspiration to all 
 PENNOYER - Gerda Elisabeth (Selling)., 97, died peacefully on December 10 in Lakewood, NJ, formerly of Chatham and Colt's Neck, NJ. Predeceased by her beloved husband Douglas Huntington Pennoyer, and her parents Christian M. and Pauline Selling, sister Dagmar, and brother Christian. Born in
 PRINCE-Suzanne Jill. Writer, died December 8, 1999 in Los Angeles, Calif. Born November 19, 1950 in Brooklyn New York, she spent her early career as a writer for several of the top advertising agencies in Manhattan. She moved to Los Angeles, her new favorite city with her companion, produce
 TRAUM-Sadie., 102. Died December 7, 1999 of natural causes. She lived a long and wonderful life. Beloved wife of the late David Traum. Cherished mother of Alice and mother-in-law of the late Hub Booth. Devoted grandmother of Margi, Jane, Marvin and Tom. Loving great grandmother of Lauren, J
 TULLER-Doris. On December 11, 1999. Beloved wife of Theodore. Loving mother of Claudia, Andrew and Michael. Adoring grandmother of Melissa, Noah, Joshua and Adam. Dear mother-in-law of Amy, Ruth and Larry. Service Sunday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. TUL
 REEVES-Minna., December 12, 1991. She was not only beautiful, charming, and talented but her selfless love and devotion to me and to my late esteemed father knew no bounds. My fervently expressed gratitude could never match her benevolence.       
 Faith Sale, a publishing executive and the editor of dozens of novels and short-story collections by such authors as Donald Barthelme, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, Kaye Gibbons and Amy Tan, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 63 and had homes in 
 FISHBIN-Jane E. December 12, 1999. Beloved daughter of Peter Fishbin and Nancy and Sidney Freedman. Cherished sister of Michael and Dori Fishbin and Paul and Jill Fishbin. Adored aunt to Amanda, Brett, Katie and Eric. Granddaughter of Thelma Fishbin and the late Eva Strauss Wartels. Janie f
 KAPLAN-Julie. On December 12, 1999, after a valiant battle with cancer. Former Vice President at Manufacturers Hanover, Chemical, and Chase banks. A volunteer at Dorot for the past four years. Beloved sister of Rosalind Kaplan, Ph.D., and Estelle Lefkowitz and her husband Mitchell. Dear aun
 RATNER-Sarah, Dr., a biochemist at the Public Health Research Institute and Professor at New York University School of Medicine, died July 28, 1999 in New York. She was 96. Dr. Ratner was born in New York in 1903, a child of recently arrived Russian immigrants. She received a scholarship to
 REITER-Jennie. Our dear beloved Bubby, age 97, went to her rest peacefully at home on December 10, 1999. Truly a woman of valor, her memory will live on in her children, grandchildren, greatgrandchildren and great-greatgrandchildren.       
 RENAN-Doris. Most beloved wife of Emile. Cherished sister of Dr. Alvin Evans. Adored aunt of Gail Ferry, Michael, David, Stephan, James and Adrea Evans. She was ''treasured'' for her beauty, her wit and her incredible charm and warmth toward all others. Services to be held at Riverside Memo
 REEVES-Minna, December 12, 1991. She was not only beautiful, charming, and talented but her selfless love and devotion to me and to my late esteemed father knew no bounds. My fervently expressed gratitude could never match her benevolence       
 AGNEW-Carrie (nee Hatch). On Dec. 12, 1999 in her hundredth year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Agnew Sr. Adored mother of Harry Jr. & Carolyn DeCoursey. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Shawn, Scott, Kevin, Megan, Brian, Kelli Colflesh, Lynn & Susan DeCoursey. Great grandmother to Mauree
 CHALL-Jeanne S., Dr. We note with sadness the passing of Dr. Jeanne S. Chall, an outstanding teacher and researcher in the field of developmental and remedial reading. While at the Educational Clinic of City College of New York, she inspired many graduate students in psychology and in educa
 GOFFMAN-Myrna. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Anita & Jeffrey. Dear sister of Stephen and Diane Coopersmith. Loving grandmother of Jonathan, Joshua and Gabriel. Service on Tuesday, at 10:00 A.M., at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. GOFFMAN-Myrna. Th
 IMMER-Marilyn Rae (Hutchins) died November 20, 1999 in NYC. She leaves two daughters, three grandchildren, a sister and a brother. Her family and friends will celebrate her life at 9:30 AM Saturday, December 18th, Christ Church (Episcopal) Hudson, NY.       
 MAGER-Dorothy. On December 11, 1999. Beloved wife of Julius; mother of Cyrus and the late Millicent; devoted grandmother of six grandchildren. We'll never forget how she touched our lives.       
 PFEIFER - Margaret Elizabeth, age 73 of Peachtree City, died Saturday, December 11 after a lengthy battle with breast cancer. Marge was born on December 10, 1926 in Baltimore, MD. She was a loving homemaker and school teacher who loved cooking, gardening, traveling, and golf. Marge is survi
 RANSON-Maria D. On Thursday, December 9, 1999 at 5PM, Maria, the loved, adored and amazing wife of Gerald Ranson, passed away. She is survived by her two sons, Matthew and Timothy and her loving mother Kathleen. Friends and family mourn our loss. There will be a memorial service at Riversid
 RESNICK-Pearl. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends, mourn the passing of one of our most beloved leaders, who played an important role in our development, Pearl Resnick. Together with her late husband, Jack, she was a longtime patron of the University. After his passing, 
 TULLER-Doris. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved member, Doris Tuller. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her husband, Dr. Theodore Tuller, their children, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 Pearl Resnick, the matriarch of a prominent New York real estate family and a philanthropist, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach. Mrs. Resnick, whose maiden name was Ezaak, was born on Jan. 3, 1912, in Okna, Ukraine
 ACKIRON-Susan G. On December 14, 1999 in Stamford, Connecticut. Beloved wife of Lowell Ackiron, of Stamford, Conn. Loving mother of Stephanie Benjamin, Tobyhanna, PA., and Evan Ackiron, of San Francisco, CA. Also survived by two loving grandchildren. Funeral today December 15, at 11 A.M. at
 AGNEW-Carrie (nee Hatch). On Dec. 12, 1999 in her hundredth year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Agnew Sr. Adored mother of Harry Jr. & Carolyn DeCoursey. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Shawn, Scott, Kevin, Megan, Brian, Kelli Colflesh, Lynn & Susan DeCoursey. Great grandmother to Mauree
 BAUMSTEIN - Bobbie. Beloved wife of the late Alexander. Devoted mother of Eugene and Barbara, Richard and Barbara, Donald and Tatiana. Adoring grandmother of Amy and Marc Mathios, Douglas, Jeffrey, Scott, Michael and Rachel; and great-grandmother of Jason. She will live in our hearts foreve
 EDWARDS-Melinda Caperton. 92, died at her home in New Canaan, CT on December 13, 1999. Daughter of O. Ellery and Hallie Patten Edwards; sister of the late Ogden E. Edwards. Graduate of Vassar College 1929; Officer in the WAVES during World War II. Services private.       
 FULWEILER-Patricia Platt. Of New York, NY and Norwalk, CT died Dec. 6,1999 of complications followimg a stroke. She was the widow of Spencer Biddle Fulweiler, mother of Lisa Fulweiler Allen, Pamela Spencer Fulweiler, Hull Platt Fulweiler, and Spencer Biddle Fulweiler, Jr. and grandmother of
 LINDEN-Gloria. On Monday, December 13. We will all mourn the loss of this sweet, loving, caring woman. Beloved wife of Murray Linden. The mother of David, Eugene, and Cynthia Carlaw. Her Australian family sends their love and mourns with her American family. Eight grandchildren will miss he
 MARGULIES-Paula. Born on November 20, 1917, passed away on December 13, 1999. Beloved mother of Marilynn and John. Cherished grandmother of Bonnie, Jan, and Joy. She will be always remembered and dearly missed by her family. Services Thursday, December 16th, at 2 P.M., Mt. Sinai Memorial Pa
 MONNESS-Billie. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and former longtime member, Billie Monness, who died on December 8, 1999. We extend our sincerest sympathies to her family and friends. The Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 RESNICK-Pearl. The Joseph L. Morse Geriatric Center and the Morse Women's Auxilary mourns the loss of longtime friend, supporter and benefactor, Pearl Resnick, and extends its sincerest condolences to the entire Resnick family on their loss. Pearl was a strong advocate of the Morse Geriatri
 ZELNER-Anna. Of Brooklyn, NY, in her 88th year. Passed away on December 14, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Hyman, her husband of 66 years. She was a sweet and caring mother, mother-in-law and grandmother. Her sons, Martin and Larry; their wives, Barbara & Marjorie; and her grandchildren, Be
 BALTER-Marjiann The Packer Collegiate Institute records with sorrow the passing of Marjiann Kurtz Balter, a loyal alumna and outstanding member of the Class of 1939, on December 9, 1999. Our sympathy goes to her husband Henry, son Jason and their families.       
 RESNICK-Pearl. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs record with deep sorrow the passing of Pearl Resnick, elegant, regal and wise, mother, grandmother and philanthropist par excellence. Pearl's inner goodness emanated and formed her outer charm and her manifold good works. Her com
 ZELNER-Anna. Of Brooklyn, NY, in her 88th year. Passed away on December 14, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Hyman, her husband of 66 years. She was a sweet and caring mother, mother-in-law and grandmother. Her sons, Martin and Larry; their wives, Barbara & Marjorie; and her grandchildren, Be
 BLUM-Helene. At the age of 87. Beloved wife of the late David. Proud mother of Nancy (Blum) and Larry Rosenfeld and the late Dennis Diamond. Loving grandmother of Ashley and Drew. She will be fondly remembered and sorely missed by all who knew her. Service Sunday 2pm at ''Riverside Memorial
 CASSIDY-Cornelia F. Of Kings Park, New York, passed away on December 14. at Bishop Jonathan G. Sherman Episcopal Nursing Home in Smithtown, N.Y., following a brief illness. After retiring as administrator at the South Oaks Hospital in Amityville, N.Y., she served eight years as a national f
 GALLANTY-Emma ''Sally'' died on December 12, 1999 in Tacoma, WA. Survived by her son Robert Gallanty of Virgina Beach, VA; two grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. Private services were held.       
 PAVESE-Edith. The Baruch College community record with much sadness the passing of Edith Pavese, our long time Publications Director. Her high standards and impeccable taste left us a lasting legacy of excellence. Her warmth and charm touched us all. Our deepest sympathies go out to her fam
 RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the loss of this truly special woman, Pearl, who touched so many lives with her friendship, kindness, generosity and understanding. She will always remain an inspiration to those blessed with the good fortune of having known her. Our heartfelt condolences to all of h
 RESNICK-Renee. Beloved wife of Murray, loving mother of Jay and Marla Resnick, Dr. Gene Resnick & Roberta & Jeffrey Ort. Devoted grandmother of Stephanie, David, Jason, Justin and Jonathan. Her impression will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Services today, at 12 noon, at Sherman's
 ROSENTHAL-Eva. On December 15, 1999 of cancer. Eva was born in York, England and spent her early years in Manchester, England. She was educated at Lowther College in Wales, in France, and at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London. During World War II, she served in the Royal Air Force
 SAJIW-Anastasia N. On December 15, 1999 of East 60th Street. Died at the home of her niece, Stephany Hitchcock in Rhinebeck, New York. Sister of Helen Adelman, Stephany Webb and Dora Hawse. Many nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews also survive. A Tribute to her memory wil be private.
 SILVERSTONE-Estelle. The Honorary Trustees of the Jewish Community Center of Harrison extend their heartfelt sympathy to the Silverstone family for their irreplaceable loss. Estelle was a Founder, past President and Honorary Trustee. Her devotion to the synagogue was inspiring and greatly a
 SKELLEY-Olga K. (nee Kapavich) on December 15, 1999 at her Upper Eastside home. Wife of the late Charles. Interment Lithuanian Cemetery, Waterbury, CT.       
 Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.   
 ASHLEY-Connie. On December 16, 1999. Loving mother of Fran Curtis Dubin and Diane Ashley. Adored Grammy of Michael and Lia. Cherished sister of the late Leonard Sitomer. ASHLEY-Connie. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished 
 CHAPPEN-Tina T. Beloved sister of Irene, Perry and Alex. She lost a courageous battle with cancer on December 16, 1999. She resided in New York City and was a medical technician for Doctors Marvin and Greta Linick. Her zest for life touched all her family and friends. Contributions may be m
 GILGAN-Lois M. Of Cos Cob, CT. Died December 7 in Greenwich of breast cancer. Born November 29, 1940 in Chicago. Daughter of the late Carl and Lora Zehnle. Graduate of St. Phillip's High School in Battle Creek, MI; alumnae of St. Mary's College in South Bend, IN; Masters degree in Special E
 LANDINO-Yetta. The entire Hospital for Joint Diseases family expresses our deepest sympathies to Fran Mele, Associate Director of Development and the Director of the Alumnai Association of NYUHospital for Joint Diseases Department of Orthopedic Surgery, on the passing of her beloved mother.
 MANZAR-Rose. In her 97th year, beloved wife of 72 years of Jack. Devoted mother of Kenneth and Sybil and the late Barton. Dear sister of Pearl Cohen, Alice Cohen and Selma Fibus. Cherished grandmother of four, and great grandmother of five. Graveside services at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont 
 PRICE-Rose M. On December 16, 1999 at her home in her 92nd year. Devoted wife of the late Martin. Lovingly mourned by her son and daughter-in-law Steven D. and Anne L.W. Price, sisters Celia Gordon and Martha Kessler, nieces, nephews, grand-nieces, grandnephews and friends. Interment servic
 ROSENHIRSCH - Blanche (nee Schoen), ninety, on December 17, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Alfred E. Rosenhirsch. Devoted & loving mother of Gloria and the late Mel Wallick, Suzi and Martin Oppenheimer. Cherished ''Nana'' of Michael and Gayle, Larry and Carolyn, Jim and Cathy Wallick and Cl
 SIEGEL-Elaine Friedman. Of Lakehurst, NJ, in her 85th year, on December 16, 1999. Proud wife of Victor for 65 years. Cherished mother, mother-in-law, grandmother and great-grandmother of Daniel, Eileen, Royce, Shepard, Stuart, Jill, Jennifer, Zoe & David. Services, Sunday, Gutterman's, Rock
 Jill Craigie, a devoted socialist and feminist who became one of Britain's first successful female film directors and whose half-century marriage to the Labor Party leader Michael Foot put her at the heart of the country's leftist politics, died on Monday in London. She was 85. Ms. 
 BLUM-Helene. At the age of 87. Beloved wife of the late David. Proud mother of Nancy (Blum) and Larry Rosenfeld and the late Dennis Diamond. Loving grandmother of Ashley and Drew. She will be fondly remembered and sorely missed by all who knew her. Service Sunday 2pm at ''Riverside Memorial
 COGAN-Martha Sharp. The Unitarian Universalist Service Committee mourns the death and honors the life of Martha Sharp Cogan, one of our founders. This courageous woman undertook our first dangerous mission to Prague in 1939 to rescue countless women, men and children fleeing Nazi persecutio
 FALVO d'URSO-Giacinta La Ferla, of Lamezia Terme, Italy, on Saturday, December 4, 1999. Devoted wife of Renato. Wonderful mother of Marina and Dr. Paul Gusmorino, Ivan, Danilo, Rosetta, Francesco, Anna Falvo d'Urso, Rossella and Pino Mercuri. Adoring grandmother of Paul and Sabrina Gusmorin
 GREEVEN-Marianne. Died on December 17, 1999, in her 86th year. Beloved wife of the late Wolfgang A.M. Greeven. Dear mother of Christine, Rainer, Michael and the late Veronica Edwards. Dear stepmother of John and Patrick. Loved grandmother of Andrea, Cristina, Nina and Philip. Sister of Ursu
 HAMMER-Barbe. On December 13, 1999. Wife of the late Leonard E. Hammer. Mother of Stephanie B. Hammer. Grandmother of Lillian Behrendt. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the New York Public Library.       
 MINKEL-Helen S. On December 17, 1999. Helen S. Minkel of Milton and Centerville, MA, died peacefully at her home surrounded by her family. She is survived by her beloved husband, Dr. Herbert P. Minkel, her cherished children, Herbert P. of Boston and New York; Mary Ellen Burke of Atherton, 
 MONNESS-Billie Heller. The members of the Museum Mile Festival Committee express their sympathy to the family and friends of Billie Heller Monness. Her professionalism, dedication, and friendship will be missed. The Museum Mile Festival Commmittee       
 MURRAY-Gloria Caruso. On December 5, 1999. The MacdougalSullivan Gardens Association records with sorrow the death of Gloria Caruso Murray a member of our community for a dozen years. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her sons Eric and Colin.       
 PRICE-Rose M. On December 16, 1999 at her home in her 92nd year. Devoted wife of the late Martin. Lovingly mourned by her son and daughter-in-law Steven D. and Anne L.W. Price, sisters Celia Gordon and Martha Kessler, nieces, nephews, grand-nieces, grandnephews and friends. Interment servic
 ROSENHIRSCH - Blanche (nee Schoen), ninety, on December 17, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Alfred E. Rosenhirsch. Devoted & loving mother of Gloria and the late Mel Wallick, Suzi and Martin Oppenheimer. Cherished ''Nana'' of Michael and Gayle, Larry and Carolyn, Jim and Cathy Wallick and Cl
 STRONG-Elizabeth S. (White-Leary) of Locust Valley, NY and Vero Beach, Fla. On December 16, 1999. Owner of the former Mill Pond House, Oyster Bay, with the late Ann Gilbert, Wellesley College, Class of 1941. Beloved wife of Frederick S. Strong III. She is also survived by her devoted daught
 PARMENTER-Janice Lincoln. 9/7/1918 to 2/15/1996. Janice has been disinterred and moved to her final resting place, Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, NY.       
 Dorothy Allison, a self-proclaimed psychic with a knack for turning up at the scenes of notorious crimes, died on Dec. 1 at Clara Maass Medical Center in Belleville, N.J. She was 74 and lived in Nutley, N.J. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported. Ms. All
 CHANLER-Gertrude L. Age 85. Died December 17, 1999, at her residence. She is survived by eight children: Elizabeth Chatwin of Oxfordshire, England; John (Sheila) Chanler of Geneseo, NY; Adrian (Sue) Chanler of Charlston, SC; Oliver Chanler of Geneseo, NY; Alexander (Carole) Chanler of Andov
 DEDMAN-Concha Mary. Died peacefully at home on December 17, age 87. She was a little piece of England on Irving Place. She left her mark on all who knew her, whether lifelong friends or passing acquaintances. There were so very many of both. And once a friend, always a friend. She is loving
 GREEVEN-Marianne. Died on December 17, 1999, in her 86th year. Beloved wife of the late Wolfgang A.M. Greeven. Dear mother of Christine, Rainer, Michael and the late Veronica Edwards. Dear stepmother of John and Patrick. Loved grandmother of Andrea, Cristina, Nina and Philip and step-grandm
 HOROWITZ-Leah. On December 18, 1999, in her 81st year. Beloved wife of Dr. Jacob Horowitz. Dear mother of Joseph (Agnes) Horowitz, Susan Horowitz and her partner Gail Kass. Adored grandmother of Bernie, Maggie and Rose. Contributions in Leah's name can be made to Jewish Family Services of N
 LITTENBERG-Ellise L. Of Kew Gardens, Queens, NY. Called too soon in her thirty-ninth year on December 18, 1999. Devoted daughter of Howard and Gloria Littenberg. Also survived by brothers Steven, Mitchell and sister-in-law, Karen. All friends and family are invited Tuesday, December 21, 199
 MACLENNAN-Helen J. Died peacefully on December 17, 1999. Born in Manhasset in 1908, she was a resident of Memorial Place most of her life. She worked for many years at the bank in Manhasset. Helen also worked with her brother, Daniel, who owned Maclennan Pharmacy until their retirement in 1
 MINKEL-Helen S. On December 17, 1999. Helen S. Minkel of Milton and Centerville, MA, died peacefully at her home surrounded by her family. She is survived by her beloved husband, Dr. Herbert P. Minkel, her cherished children, Herbert P. of Boston and New York; Mary Ellen Burke of Atherton, 
 PFEFFER-Frances. Died December 15, 1999, at the age of 96, of congenital heart failure. She is survived by her brothers, George (Sarah) and Walter (Rita), and sisters, Lillian and Millie (Milton), as well as many nieces and nephews.       
 ROSS-Denise. Sincere condolences to Denise's husband, Charlie and her children Jonathan and Zachary and the rest of the family. The Board, Officers, and Staff National Bank of New York City Richard Gelman, Chairman       
 RUBIN-Fannie. Beloved wife of the late Arthur, and the late George Dubrow. Cherished mother of Helene Grossman, Leonard Dubrow, the late Irwin and Barbara Dubrow. Devoted grandmother of Gregory, Thomas, Elizabeth, Barbara, Joanne, Crystal, Bliss, Adam and Hope. Great-grandmother of Nathan, 
 AKOP-Ann. Sunday, December 19, 1999, after a valant struggle, she leaves behind her son marc, daughter-in-law Susan, brother George and her extended family Lesli, Bonnie, and Eric. Services will be held Wednesday 12:45PM, at the ''Riverside'', Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street.       
 BAKER-Sarah. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member, and leader of our congregation. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BOXER-Enid. Beloved wife of the late Harold H. Boxer, Esq., A'H; sister of the late Nash Aussenberg, A'H; sister-in-law of Edith Aussenberg. Cherished and loved by nieces, nephews, cousins, relatives and many friends of the families Aussenberg, Kestenbaum, Boxer, Korngold, Eisenberg, Schuld
 BRESLERMAN-Celia. Died December 20, 1999. Beloved mother of Sandra Kauffman and Mark Breslerman. Loving grandmother of Alexandra Kauffman, Nicole Kauffman Roberts, Jonathon, Jesse and Benjamin Breslerman. For time of memorial service call 212-838-1089. We will miss her sweetness and light. 
 CAGE-Betty. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family mourn the passing of Betty Cage. General Manager of New York City Ballet at its inception, Betty spent ne
 DOYLE-Jean P. Age 72. On December 17 after a long illness. Born in Quincy, Mass. and raised in Teaneck, N.J. Mrs. Doyle (nee Pardey) studied nursing at Muhlenberg College and Teachers College of Columbia University. Registered nurse, she served for many years on the staff of New York Hospit
 GANZ-Beatrice, age 90, on December 18, 1999. Loving wife to the late Samuel Ganz. Devoted mother of Louis Ganz and Hannah Michelson. Dear aunt to Lois Beranbom. Adored grandmother of Samantha, Mark, Laura, Chad, Andrew and Danielle. Beloved great grandmother to Lena, Brad, Cory and Justin. 
 HARRIS-Edith Gruenberg. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home on December 19, 1999. Wife of the late Stephen Matsner Harris, she is survived by her daughter Emily, her son Frederick and four grandchildren. She was 85 years old and formerly lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. A memorial service will
 LITTENBERG-Ellise L. Of Kew Gardens, Queens, NY. Called too soon in her thirty-ninth year on December 18, 1999. Devoted daughter of Howard and Gloria Littenberg. Also survived by brothers Steven, Mitchell and sister-in-law, Karen. All friends and family are invited Tuesday, December 21, 199
 ROSENHIRSCH - Blanche. The American Jewish Committee Women's Campaign Board is deeply saddened by the death of Blanche Rosenhirsch, a treasured friend of AJC, of the Jewish community and of all humanity. A dedicated leader and benefactor who devotedly served the Women's Campaign for over 30
 ROSS-Denise. With profound regret and heartwrenching sadness we mourn the passing of our dear friend and business associate, Denise Ross. Her passion, integrity, and sheer determination in everything she did was truly extraordinary. The courage and strength with which she battled her illnes
 SYDNEY-Dora, died peacefully on December 20th, 1999 in her 98th year. Cherished & adored mother of Edith R. Sydney. Devoted wife of the late David. Your intellect, courage and wit have sustained me throughout my life. Graveside services Wednesday, 10:30 AM, at Mt. Judah Cemetery, Ridgewood,
 WELTING-Ruth. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the untimely death of Ruth Welting. Following her debut in 1976 as Zerbinetta in ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' she sang some 50 performances with our company. With her brilliant upper extension and sparkling stage presence, she was an ideal Olympi
 BIGELOW-Elizabeth. Born 1913, Plainfield, NJ. Sister of Archibald and Louis Cox, mother of Frances Krause of Tucson, and Elizabeth Weber Cornell of Vermont. Also survived by four grandchildren; two grandsons died before her. She was a longtime editor for Thomas E. Crowell, publisher. Funera
 BOCARSKY-Sara. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Sara Bocarsky, our esteemed and beloved colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Executive Director 
 CLEARY-Geraldine P. On December 20th, 1999. Loving wife of the late Walter Cleary, Sr. Survived by her sister Ilene, son Walter, Jr., and daughter-in-law Maura. Funeral Mass at Blessed Sacrament Church on Wednesday December 22, 9 AM. Interment St. Agnes Cemetery, Forest City, PA.       
 DOHRENWEND-Constance Wilckes. Died December 18, 1999 at the age of 93 at the Osborn Retirement Community, Rye, NY. Devoted wife for 57 years of the late Otto E. Dohrenwend. Caring mother of Renata D. Gallagher of New York City, James W. (Sandra) of Denville, NJ, Robert C. (Patricia) of Bron
 GOLDMAN-Ruth. On December 20th in her 93rd year. Wife to the late Paul L. Goldman. Mother of Phyllis & Tammy. Sister to Ethel. Grandmother of Karen, David, Barbara, the late Yariv, Nirit, Erez & Haran. Great-grandmother to Elizabeth & Madeleine. Mother-in-law to Albert, Philip, Dan and Gabi
 LEMPKE-Elizabeth M. (nee McDermott) on Friday, December 17, 1999 of Wayne, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Richard J. Lempke, MD (1972); loving mother of Betsy Cochrane & her husband William, Susan Lempke, Cynthia Clarke and her husband Ben, Richard Lempke all of Wayne, New Jersey, Meredith Le
 NEWMAN-Eileen Halleran. Died peacefully at home on December 21, 1999 at age 86. Beloved mother of John E. Murphy, Sheila M. Stuart, Karen M. Miller and the late Peter Murphy. Cherished grandmother of James, Craig, Lauren, Jill and Michael, and loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Las
 NORTON-Marjorie C., age 84 of Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ passed away Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Mrs. Norton was a graduate of Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn and Wells College in Aurora, NY. Mrs. Norton's grandfather was Mr. Bird S. Cole
 REISS-Viola. On December 20, 1999, age 93. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Survived by many nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. Her gracious manner and deeds will be remembered by all who knew her. Graveside services Wednesday, 10:30 AM, at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ.       
 ROSS-Denise. With profound regret and heartwrenching sadness we mourn the passing of our dear friend and business associate, Denise Ross. Her passion, integrity, and sheer determination in everything she did was truly extraordinary. The courage and strength with which she battled her illnes
 SCHWARTZ-Bernice (nee Kostant). On December 21, 1999, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Abel Jack for 56 years. Devoted mother of Arlene Kostant, Paula Schwartz, M.D., and Arthur Schwartz. Loving mother-in-law of Stephen Elbert, Paul Pervil, M.D., and Carolyn Schwartz. Dear sister of Pr
 VAN CLEVE-Ellen (nee Graves). Of Ridgewood, New Jersey, age 52, died on Sunday, December 19, 1999. Beloved wife of Patrick. Loving daughter of George Graves of Bonita Springs, Florida. Devoted mother of Kimberly of Hoboken, N.J., and Christopher and Ryan of Ridgewood. Loving sister of Penny
 BOXER-Enid. We mourn Enid's passing, who together with her late husband, Harold, were the lay force driving the creation of our NCSY, National Conference of Synagogue Youth. May we find consolaton in the legacy they left behind. Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., Pres. Orthodox Union Rabbi Pinchas 
 FINKEL-Sylvia B.., 81, died Dec. 19, 1999. She is survived by her sons and their wives Paul and Eileen Finkel & Lewis and Andrea Finkel, sister Frances Chubinsky, brother Irving Brill & grandchildren Michael, Diana and Lauren.       
 FISHER-Jeanne. Beloved wife of Mead Hunt and adoring mother to Laura. Died with bravery and dignity at her home after a long illness. Jeanne attened Elmira College and New York School for Visual Arts & had a distinguished career as a commercial illustrator. Viewing will be Thursday, Dec. 23
 FRIEDMAN-Barbara, died on Tuesday at the age of 69 at her home. Loving wife of Arnold. Devoted mother of Stuart, Bruce and Jeffrey Friedman, and grandmother of Jenna, Nicholas, Stacie and Hannah. Donations can be made to the American Leukemia Society.       
 HANDEL-Sandra (nee Wasserman). December 22, 1999. Beloved wife and best friend of Seymour, devoted mother of Rebecca and Matthew, dear mother-in-law of Andrew and Amy, adoring grandmother of Arianna, Molly and Josselyn, beloved sister of the late Phyllis Kaminer. Loyal friend, dedicated lib
 HOFFMAN-Irene. We extend heartfelt condolences to Carl and Freddie Hoffman and Annie Cohen, on the passing of their beloved mother, Irene. A Silver Founder of the Medical Center, she exemplified the highest ethics and morals of Jewish tradition. May the entire family be comforted amongst th
 KLEIN-Mildred (Milly). An exceptional woman who lived for others. She will be sorely missed. Her friends and co-workers at Honest Ballot Jay and Murray Schwartz Maralin Falik       
 KRAMER-Irwin Hamilton. On December 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Terry Allen, father and grandfather. Funeral Thursday, December 23, 10 A.M., at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. KRAMER-Irwin. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Joan and Sanfor
 LIEBERMAN-May. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Philip, Esther King, Lillian Eisman and Joyce Robbins; and devoted son-in-laws Harry King, Elliott Eisman and Kenneth Robbins. Loving grandmother and great grandmother. Services private. LIEBERMAN-Mae. Congregation Kehil
 NEWMAN-Eileen Halleran. Died peacefully at home on December 21, 1999 at age 86. Beloved mother of John E. Murphy, Sheila M. Stuart, Karen M. Miller and the late Peter Murphy. Cherished grandmother of James, Craig, Lauren, Jill and Michael, and loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Las
 NORTON-Marjorie C.., age 84, of Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ passed away Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Mrs. Norton was a graduate of Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn and Wells College in Aurora, NY. Mrs. Norton's grandfather was Mr. Bird S. Co
 PIZER-Stella Y.., 83, of Great Neck, NY, on November 26, 1999. She was engaged in actualizing her life as a productive, useful person. She is survived by her daughter and son (his wife), her sister, and grandchildren. Memorial Service to be announced.       
 SINGER-Beatrice H.. Passed away December 18, 1999 in Los Angeles, California. An 87 year old, lifelong New Yorker, she was a strong and independent woman who will be missed and remembered by daughter, Lola; nieces Roslyn, Faith and Marjorie; nephews Peter and Alan; and many dear friends.   
 BACON-Karen L. (Lagemann)., of Hyannis Port, died Tuesday, December 21, 1999 at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. She was 75. She is survived by her four children, Robin Greenwood of North Salem, New York, Carter Smith Bacon, Jr. of Sherborn, MA, Wells W. Bacon of Somesville, ME and Eri
 FRIEDMAN-Barbara. The Murray Hill Medical Group notes with profound sorrow the passing of Barbara Friedman, the mother of our esteemed colleague and friend Dr. Jeffrey Friedman. We extend our deepest sympathy to Jeffrey, her husband Arnold and her sons Stuart and Bruce.       
 GONZALES-Felicitas. On December 18, 1999. Mrs. Gonzales's friends and co-workers at New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia Presbyterian Center, send their heartfelt condolences to the Gonzales family. Mrs. Gonzales, who worked at the Hospital for more than 30 years, was supervisor of the 
 HOLLANDER-Elizabeth. Loving wife of the late Harry. Cherished sister of Helen. Adoring mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was so proud of all of them. An eternal optimist, she enriched the lives of all who knew her with her warmth and love. We, her nephew and sister-in-law will 
 JURIST-Estelle. On December 23, 1999. Beloved mother of Joseph Jurist and mother-in-law of Lynda Jurist and ever proud grandmother of Julie and Alison. JURIST-Estelle (Teri). We share this loss with Joseph and the family. Fond memories will be with us always. Janie, Robert, and Todd
 LIEBERMAN-May. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of May Lieberman, beloved mother of Lillian Eisman, a distinguished member of our Board of Directors and honorary chair of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York, a benefici
 MARKUSH-Maria. Usdan Center for the Arts mourns the passing of an elegant lady of wit and charm, a friend to the Center's students and a beloved member of our staff. We shall miss her uplifting presence at Usdan. Jerrold Ross, President Dale Lewis, Executive Director       
 McGRAW-Anne Schuyler Williams. Of Gulf Stream, FL and of Wianno, MA., passed away on December 22, 1999 after a long illness with cancer. She was married to Donald C. McGraw, Jr. for over 50 years and had four sons, Donald III, Robert, David and the late Peter McGraw plus thirteen grandchild
 NOTHMANN-Irene L.. 83. Died on December 22, 1999. She will missed by daughter Karen, brother Herbert Rosenstern; and Ilse Friesem-York, Leoni and Rolf Werner Salomon & Dede Moyse. Service Sunday, 12:00 PM at The ''Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her memory may be made
 YAGODA-Grace. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family and aishes chayil of our esteemed Board Member and member of the Executive Committee, David Yagoda. A partner with her beloved husband in life, business and philanthropy, Grace demonstrated her
 Felicia Lamport, a poet and satirist who took delight in skewering the high and mighty with verse, quips, puns and parodies, most of them first appearing in a column in The Boston Globe called Muse of the Week in Review, died on Thursday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 83. M
 BRADFIELD-Ruth. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member and friend. Ruth was the sister of our late Rabbi Emertius Dr. Bernard Bamberger. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to her husband Edward (Brad), her children Ellen and David Borenstei
 GILL-Anne Barnard. Wife of Brendan Gill, died at the bungalow in Norfolk, Ct. on December 22, 1999. Her children and grandchildren are thankful for her joyous life and infinite love. Service at 2PM Monday, December 27, Church of Christ Congregational, Norfolk, Ct.       
 GOOTNICK-Esther, on December 23, 1999, died peacefully in Florida at 91. Esther is survived by her loving & devoted husband, Louis; her cherished son, Dr. David Gootnick, and loving daughter-inlaw, Margaret Mary Gootnick; her devoted brother and sister-David Diamant and Sonny Schwagerand by
 McGRAW-Anne Schuyler Williams. Of Gulf Stream, FL and of Wianno, MA., passed away on December 22, 1999 after a long illness with cancer. She was married to Donald C. McGraw, Jr. for over 50 years and had four sons, Donald III, Robert, David and the late Peter McGraw plus thirteen grandchild
 MITCHELL-Frances Eliot Heiner, 69. Beloved sister, cousin and friend. Alumna of Chapin and St. Timothy's Schools and Barnard College. Longtime member and sometime president of the Snarks theater club for women. Mourned by her brother and sister-in-law Dennis and Helena Heiner, cousin Gordon
 Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Sunday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Her title for many years was simply general manager, but Ms. Cage
 BRAND-Lucille In her 88th year. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of the late Jill Rosenzweig. Dear sister of Gladys Sommers. Loving grandmother of Lisa and Bradley Stern, and Andrea and Everett Korb. Cherished great grandmother of Shayna, Ethan, and Isaac. Adored aunt of Jan
 BURKOWSKY-Libbie. Fairwell to our beautiful, sweet, loving Libbie. Mother to daughter Carol and sonin-law Ezra, grandmother to Nina, Danny, Richie and wife Geeta, Lisa and husband Geovanny, and three most wonderful great grandchildren, Joel, Rachel and Naava. We will miss her dearly.       
 CALLAWAY-Diana Stokes, died December 22 after a short illness. She was born in 1918 in Meridian, MS. as America Stokes. She was educated in Meridian public schools & UCLA. For her fashion career, she began using the name Diana Stokes in Los Angeles, where she worked for I. Magnin & Co. and 
 FINKEL-Lena S. Age 97, died December 24, 1999. She had an interesting and varied life. Was secretary to famous attorney/judge, Samuel Liebowitz. Later partnered with late husband, Harry, to run Shades Incorporated. Mother of Jerome (deceased) and Ruth, Elaine and Myron Adler, and Bruce and 
 GILL-Anne Barnard. Wife of Brendan Gill, died at the bungalow in Norfolk, Ct. on December 22, 1999. Her children and grandchildren are thankful for her joyous life and infinite love. Service at 2PM Monday, December 27, Church of Christ Congregational, Norfolk, Ct.       
 GOLDENBERG-Isabella Z. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Billy of Toluca Lake, CA and Lucille Goldshlag. Dear sister of Ruth Katz and Dr. Maurice Leon. President of the League for Carolians, an organization dedicated to the rehabilitation of handicapped children. She was a m
 GREEN-Martha. Beloved wife of Dr. Marvin Green. Devoted mother of Dr. Geoffrey Green and wife Marcia and Arne Green and wife Fran. Also survived by sisters Florence Atlas and Esther Skolnick. Martha Green was a prominent clinical social worker. She was an authority on adolescents and childr
 HAIGHT-Mary Lillian (nee Uppercu). On December 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George Winthrop. Survived by her sister, Isabel Read of Palm Beach, FL, her three daughters, Laura Pretor-Pinney of Somerset, England, Linda deMay of London, England and Marcia Erickson of Raleigh, NC, eight g
 McGRAW-Anne Schuyler Williams. Of Gulf Stream, FL and of Wianno, MA., passed away on December 22, 1999 after a long illness with cancer. She was married to Donald C. McGraw, Jr. for over 50 years and had four sons, Donald III, Robert, David and the late Peter McGraw plus thirteen grandchild
 SCHIFF-Jennie. 87. Died December 24, 1999, at home. Loving wife of the late Jerry. Beloved mother of Susan Wynn and Robert Schiff and mother-in-law of Susan Schiff. Devoted grandmother of Brad and Christine Wynn, Evan and Elissa Wynn, Jillian and Michael Pohly, Scott and Adam Schiff. Proud 
 SHACTER-Jean (nee Heller), of Delray Beach, FL and Manhasset, NY, passed away on December 21, 1999 at her home in Delray Beach. She was the beloved wife of the late Charles Banks Shacter and the cherished mother of Carol and Peter Romanow and the late Bobbi Shaw. Mrs. Shacter was the adored
 SHOOKHOFF-Goldie Popper. On December 24, 1999 at the age of 84. Beloved wife of the late Martin, loving mother of David and William, mother-in-law of Carol and Johanna, grandmother of Alexandra and Kiera, sister of Frieda Green and Selma Cohen. Service Monday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 7
 KORAL-Sylvia S. Ten years have passed since our dear mother died; she is remembered with deep love and missed every day by her daughter Marianne Smythe, son Alan Koral, son-inlaw Robert Smythe, and granddaughters Katherine Newman and Sarah Lane. Had she lived, her pleasure in life would hav
 BRADFIELD-Ruth (Bamberger). On December 24, 1999. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Ellen Bradfield and Marjorie Grenchfield and her husband Rob. Cherished grandmother of Eli and Isabel. Dear sister of the late Rabbi Bernard J. Bamberger. Services Monday (today), 12 noon, at Temple S
 GILL-Anne Barnard. Wife of Brendan Gill, died at the bungalow in Norfolk, Ct on December 22, 1999. Her children and grandchildren are thankful for her joyous life and infinite love. Service at 2PM Monday, December 27, Church of Christ Congregational, Norfolk, Ct.       
 HAIGHT-Mary Lillian (nee Uppercu). On December 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George Winthrop. Survived by her sister, Isabel Read of Palm Beach, FL, her three daughters, Laura Pretor-Pinney of Somerset, England, Linda deMay of London, England and Marcia Erickson of Raleigh, NC, eight g
 MARX-Ruth Kahn. On December 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Loving mother of Jane Moss and her husband, Robert. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan Moss, Maggie Levy and her husband, Ira. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, 11 AM. Interment to 
 SCHUB-Hannah. Beloved sister of Marion Newman and aunt to seven nieces and nephews whose lives she touched deeply, passed away this week. She was predeceased by her husband Sam Horowitz, along with whom she successfully started and operated Debutogs Rainwear. She was greatly respected in th
 SHOMER-Florence. 79, of Miami, passed away on December 25, 1999. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Paul Leon Shomer. She is survived by her loving children, Wendy Shomer and Nicole Shomer of New York and Tighe Shomer of Miami. She was born in Brooklyn, NY and had a career as a model and t
 SHOOKHOFF-Goldie Popper. On December 24, 1999 at the age of 84. Beloved wife of the late Martin, loving mother of David and William, mother-in-law of Carol and Johanna, grandmother of Alexandra and Kiera, sister of Frieda Green and Selma Cohen. Service Monday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 7
 FLAXMAN-Sally (nee Grill). On Dec. 27, 1999. Beloved wife of Stan. Loving mother to Marty and Judy. Grandmother to Seth and Leah. Family and friends will all miss her. In lieu of flowers donations to Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, 1 Penn Plaza, Suite 4800, New York, New York 10019.       
 GAINES-Edith. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights mourns the passing of our beloved member, Edith Gaines. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Martin Kay, President       
 GILL-Anne Barnard. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend, Anne Barnard Gill. Anne was a founding member of the Museum's National Committee and a longtime supporter of the Whitney Museum. Along with
 MARX-Ruth. The Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Ruth Marx. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 MILLS-Margaret Blake (Patty). Of New Canaan, CT, died at Norwalk Hospital December 23, after a short illness. She was 56. She is survived by her husband of 36 years, Robert L. Mills of New Caanan; three daughters, Margaret M. Kruse of Fairfield, CT, Allison B. Mills of Stamford and Catherin
 MIZE-Mary H., died December 25th, 1999 of complications from ovarian cancer at age 71. A private service will be held. She was born August 17th, 1928 in Detroit, MI. Her maiden name was Harlan. She graduated from St. Mary's in the Mountains High School in Littleton, NH in 1946. She married 
 RECANATI-Lina. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 SALTZMAN-Elizabeth Aronsohn age 90, of Boca Raton, Florida formerly of Fort Lee, NJ. Predeceased by her husband I. William Aronsohn and son Richard F. Aronsohn. Survived by her husband Lawrence Saltzman, daughter Joan Katz of Stowe, VT, six grandchildren and nine greatgrandchildren. Service
 WELCH-Louise Michel Blinken (b. 1905) died at home in the presence of her family in New York City late on Christmas Day. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, December 29 in Saint Thomas Church, 53rd St. and Fifth Avenue at 11am. She is survived by son Dr. Richard Savington Crampton
 ZABLOW-Adele. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our esteemed member Phoebe McBee, wife of Richard McBee, our respected President, and extends to her and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 ZUCKERWISE-Sydell. Of Laguna Hills, CA, age 68, mother of Drew and Debra, passed away in her sleep on December 26, 1999. Graveside services Wednesday December 29th at 1 P.M. at New Montifiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY. For information call Schwartz Brothers in Queens, NY.       
 CAMPBELL-Jeanette H.. In her 92nd year, on Dec. 27, 99 of Garden City, NY. Beloved wife of the late Howard H Campbell. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th St, Garden City, 2-4 and 7-9 PM Thursday. Religious service at the Garden City Community Church, James N Gettemy Chap
 COERVER-Margaret McLean., 93, of 10 Park Avenue, Manhattan, passed away Sunday, December 26, 1999, at Cabrini Hospice. Born February 14, 1906 in Manhattan, she was the daughter of Bridget Power McLean and George Anthony McLean. Mrs. Coerver spent her working career with Morgan Stanley. Afte
 GLADSTONE-Adrienne S.. On December 28, 1999. Loving wife of the late Henry Goldman Jr. andMilton S. Gladstone. Beloved mother of the late Adrian Peter Goldman, June Breton Fisher and Henry Goldman III. Grandmother of 10 and great grandmother of 22. A memorial service will be held at Frank E
 KAFKEWITZ-Lillie. On December 27, 1999. Age 84. Intelligent, adventurous, inquisitive woman of great wisdom. Devoted wife of the late Louis. She is deeply mourned by her devoted children David and Harriet, and by her daughter-inlaw Adrianne; and by Jorden, Debbie, Debra, Tyler and Rebecca; 
 MARX-Ruth. The Sisterhood of Central Synagogue is deeply saddened by the death of Ruth Marx, esteemed and beloved member of our Board. We extend sincere condolences to her family. Shirley Steinhauser, President       
 MEIER-June. The Isabel O'Neil Studio Workshop and Foundation for the Art of the Painted Finish have lost a most dear, cherished friend and supporter. June was a founding member of the Board of Trustees, disciple of Isabel, master teacher and advisor which made ''go ask June'' a mantra for a
 MILLS-Margaret Blake (Patty). Of New Canaan, Connecticut, died at Norwalk Hospital December 23, after a short illness. She was 56. She is survived by her husband of thirty-six years, Robert L. Mills of New Canaan; three daughters, Margaret M. Kruse of Fairfield, CT, Allison B. Mills of Stam
 MOSS-Edith. (nee Tolins). On Tuesday, December 28, 1999. Born April 9, 1904. Beloved wife of the late David Moss. Loving mother of Laura Rosen and devoted grandmother of Wayne and Peter Rosen. Last survivor of a family of six girls and one boy. An outstanding elementary school teacher for 4
 RECANATI-Lina. Beloved mother and grandmother, passed away December 26th. Her kindness, warmth and courage will remain in our hearts forever. Elias, Lily and Maurice J. Recanati       
 SEGAL-Rebecca. Born July 6, 1906 in Omaha, NE, died December 22, 1999 in New York City, her home for many years. Loving sister of the late Rose. A woman of uncommon strength of character, intelligence and love of life, she was a source of inspiration to all who knew her.       
 STARR-Blanche. Age 89. Of Boca Raton, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Died peacefully on December 27, 1999. Dear wife of the late Benjamin Starr. Survived by her loving son Jeffrey. A private memorial service will be held 12 PM today in Palm Beach, FL.       
 STONE-Mary Weyant Caye. On December 28, 1999 of East Moriches, Long Island in her 84th year, widow of George Bailey Stone, daughter of the late Helen Knickerbocker Caye and Weyant Decataur Caye, mother of William Weyant Stone of East Moriches, Robert Bailey Stone of East Greenwich, Rhode Is
 GRAUSMAN-Elizabeth B.., 92, died peacefully at home on Tuesday Dec. 28, 1999, with her family. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Roland I. Grausman. Cherished mother of Philip, Richard & Susan. Devoted grandmother to David, Jennifer and Deborah. Memorial gathering to be held at a future date. Co
 McALPIN-Helen B.. Formerly of Convent, N.J., Meadowlakes, Heightstown, New Jersey, and Brandreth Lake, NY, December 28, 1999, in Palm Springs, CA., at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Malcolm E. McAlpin, she is survived by two children, David and Ann; three grandchildren Merrill, Melissa an
 MOONEY-Martha Bowers Doherty. of Floral Park, NY at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Vincent J. Mooney. She is survived by her sons Vincent Jr., Christopher, Roger, Walter and Neil and by her daughters Martha Waltien and Katherine Pryor as well as 11 grandchildren and three greatgrandchildr
 SHAPIRO-Esther. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Esther Shapiro, mother of Sandra Adler, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Execu
 SHRIRO-Helen. On December 27, 1999 in West Palm Beach, FL. in her 100th year. Beloved wife to the late Simon. Loving mother to Martha and Michael Drilling and Rena and Robert Lavner. Adored Nana to Eric, Betsy and Neil, Paul and Amy, Abby and Gerard, Jeff and Menucha, Daniel and Steffi, and
 SULLIVAN-Agnes T.. Of East Northport, New York, December 29th, 1999, in her 89th year (formerly of Forest Hills). Sister of Anne Sullivan (her twin), Mary Fitzpatrick and John J. Sullivan. Predeceased by Julia Larkin & Daniel. Reposing at Nolan & Taylor-Howe Funeral Home, 5 Laurel Avenue, N
 TAYLOR-Frieda. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, with profound sorrow, mourn the passing of Frieda Taylor, the mother of our esteemed partner and founder, Stewart Taylor. This courageous woman, cherished her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She was dee
 WAHL-Zelda. A beautiful woman of valor. Beloved and devoted wife to her loving husband, Hy, with whom she honeymooned for 52 years. She is deeply mourned by her loving daughters, Penny Wetter, and Lynn Fishman, and sons-in-law Steven Wetter and Dr. Allen Fishman. Cherished grandmother to Ro
 Janet Bode, the author of 14 nonfiction books with socially conscious themes for young adults, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan. She was 56. The cause was breast cancer, said her companion of many years, Stan Mack, the cartoonist. Ms. Bode's books
 BERAKHA-Esther (nee Rossi). Of Manhattan, died on December 29, 1999 just before her 89th birthday. Born in Buenos Aires. Loving wife of the late David Berakha. Mother of George Beraka, M.D., & the late Vicky Berakha. Mother-inlaw of Judy Beraka. Grandmother of Scott, David and Michael. May 
 GILL-Anne. The Trustees and staff of The Municipal Art Society mourn the loss of Anne Gill, our good friend and wife of former MAS president, the late Brendan Gill. Her presence at the Society's events will be missed by many. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the entire Gill family. Phili
 GROSZ-Gisele, in her 89th year on December 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Armand. Dear mother of Bernard and Morton, devoted mother-in-law of Peggy and Judy. Cherished grandmother of David & Jeffrey. Services today December 31, 11:15am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue
 GRUBER-Evelyn. Of Great Neck, New York on December 25. Much loved and cherished mother of Susan and Peter, wife of the late Dennis. She will be greatly missed.       
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Evelyn of Purchase, NY on December 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother to Esther and Christopher Pullman and Nancy and Alan Locker. Adored grandmother of Alison and Richard, Katherine, Sarah and Jonathan. Cherished grandmother to Emma. Artist in the home and
 KUSHNER-Florence, of Huntington, Long Island. Her sudden passing has devastated all who knew and loved her. She was full of love, compassion, and she shared her everlasting love and devotion with her beloved husband, Herbert, and loving children, Glenn, Donna and Terri, adoring grandchildre
 LORD-Comfort (nee Parker). Died on December 25, 1999 in her 88th year at her home in Palm Beach, FL after a long illness. She is survived by a daughter Julia (Jill) Rodgers of New York City, and a son Cornelius O'Connor of West Palm Beach, FL. A memorial service will be held at the Church o
 MORGAN-Sidney Davidson, 54, of Henniker, New Hampshire, and formerly of Westport, Conn., died on Monday at Concord Hospital Hospice in New Hampshire. She was born in San Francisco, the daughter of John Stowell Davidson and Elizabeth Larned Moore. She was a graduate of the Peck School in Mor
 SCHNEIDER-Florence Hemley. 85 years old; Ph.D Bryn Mawr College. Resident of Ashland, Oregon; formerly of Tucson, AZ, and Crestwood, NY. Departed peacefully in her sleep December 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Bill Schneider; loving sister of Eugene and the late Arnold and David; a devo
 SCHRAGIS-Fannie. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Carole and Alvin Schragis, our good friends and respected members of our Society of Founders. Mr. Schragis also serves as a member of the Executive Board 
 SCHWIMMER-Myril. Age 95 of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved mother, cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother and valued friend. She is survived by daughter, Barbara Savrin of New York City and son, Walter Schwimmer of Long Beach, California, six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Funeral s
 TAYLOR-Frieda. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, with profound sorrow, mourn the passing of Frieda Taylor, the mother of our esteemed partner and founder, Stewart Taylor. This courageous woman, cherished her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She was dee
 VIGMAN-Eva. Devoted daughter, sister, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother and friend. Survived by daughter Audrey Sanders. Pre-deceased by daughter Dr. Naomi Vigman Ehrenworth, nephew, Blair Weissbecker. Treasured grandchildren, Majorie, husband Lee, great-grandson Nathanial, Debbie & Sc
 WAHL-Zelda. We mourn the loss of our warm and caring friend. Our heartfelt sympathy to her loving husband Hy and her devoted children and grandchildren. We will always remember the happy times we shared. Stella and Zeke       
