 AFFRIOL--Lauren, died Friday, May 16th, from cancer, diagnosed while she was attending Brooklyn Law School. Lauren is mourned by her husband, Abdeladim Nouira; her daughter, Hanan Nouira; her mother, Ann Affriol; her brother, John Affriol; her sister-in-law, Hope Affriol; two nieces, Melind
 BALLOFFET--Circe N. (nee de Rioja). Died May 26, 2003, at home in Tucson, AZ, where she had retired in 1995. She was 84, a native of Argentina who lived, for many years, in Hastings on Hudson, NY. Her husband, Armando Balloffet, passed away in 1992. She is survived by seven children, 18 gra
 CADWELL--Franchellie Margaret. On May 25, 2003, at her home in New York. One of the first women to own a national advertising agency. Ms. Cadwell was known in the advertising world as ''Frankie''. She was an award-winning copywriter and author who was renowned for changing the way women wer
 CHAINEY -- Dolores. The Lindsay Park Board of Directors, Management, Maintenance and Security mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Dolores Chainey. Her tireless leadership of Lindsay Park for more than 30 years has preserved the quality and spirit of cooperative living at Lindsay Par
 COHEN--Bernice Kreindler (Bunny). Beloved and cherished wife of Dr. Ira Bernard Cohen, devoted mother of Amy Cohen Burack, and Bonnie Cohen Rooney and her loving husband William J. Rooney, loving grandmother of Jacob Burack, Kevin and Meghan Rooney, and devoted sister-in-law of Florence Kal
 CRACOVANER--Liska, also known as March, Liska, May 30, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur J. Cracovaner. Devoted mother of Linda Marsh. Born February 17, 1906. Hers was a lifelong love affair with New York City and the theater. She worked as an actress and model before her marriage i
 FIRST--Joanna. Died May 31, 2003, age 57. She is survived by her thousands of children of National Dance Institute. She will always be my beloved mate, friend, lover and companion. She taught me the meaning of love and compassion. May she now rest in peace. Donations may be made to National
 GEOLY--Joan Ellen Flax passed away May 30th after a long illness. Beloved mother of James and Kathryn, mother - in - law of Adam, grandmother of Alex, Tom, Andrew, Cayla, Benjamin and Jack. Sister of Robert, sister in law of Marjorie, aunt of Melissa and Sean and dear friend of Daniel. Serv
 GERBER--Louise Craig Jacobs. Wife of the late Dr. Leon Gerber, mother of Robert of Bedford Hills, N.Y. and Merrell Eve and Edie Mackenzie of Vancouver, Canada, sister of Pearl and George, aunt and loving friend, passed peacefully at home in Laguna Hills, CA on Saturday May 24, one month to 
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim Hankin Barrett and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace.
 HOSKIN--Francis C.G. Of Woods Hole and Canton, MA, May 28, 2003. Beloved husband of Elizabeth M. Farnham and the late Adele Landrigan. Father of Laura A. Prusch, her husband Robert and a grandson, Christopher, all of Spokane, WA. A memorial service will take place at 1:00pm on Wednesday, Ju
 LIVERMORE--Rosemary J. 70, of Paramus, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died April 10, 2003. Beloved sister to Elizabeth Frankland, Anna Fitting, the late Jane Hague and the late William Livermore. A long-standing employee of Lord, Day, Lord and its successor Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP. So c
 MOSS--Neysa. (nee Post) May 21, 2003 in London. Survived by her loving husband, Bernard, adoring son David and devoted sister Rosalyn Doggett and by her many dear friends and relatives in London, Auckland and the U.S. including her mother-inlaw Lillian Moss, brothers-inlaw Kenneth Doggett a
 OBADIAH - SMITH -- Laura Sharona. On May 22, 2003. Loving wife to David and devoted mother of Jared and James Smith. Loving daughter to Valentine and Edward Obadiah, loving sister to Michel, loving daughter-inlaw to Susan and Richard Smith. Laura graduated from the State University of New Y
 ROSENBLUM -- Anna. No vember 8, 1907-May 31, 2003. Formerly of Manhattan, late of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray, devoted mother to Richard and Carolyn and son-in-law Gary Koesten. Loving grandmother to Alan and Jared. She joins her husband, mother, father and two brothers 
 SAMUEL--Eleanor. On May 26, 2003. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear beloved Ellie of Aventura, FL and Andover, NJ. Wonderful wife to Fred, loving sister to Marvin, devoted mother to Steven and Mark Tannen, adoring grandmother to Blake and Betsy. She was a great friend to all an
 SOCCOLICH--Blanche Zelinka, on May 30, 2003. Beloved wife of Miro, together for 34 years. Enjoyed her family and friends. We will miss her dearly. >>AD#       
 SPECTOR -- Ruth Zirinsky. Your fighting spirit and grace will live on. We mourn along with your entire family. Sherry, Michele and Andrew Fabrikant SPECTOR--Ruth. Please see notice listed today under ''Zirinsky.'' SPECTOR -- Ruth Zirinsky. Our heartfelt sympathy to her entir
 WOLF--Dora. 95, passed away May 28, 2003. She was a loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was preceded in death by her husband Jack. Mrs. Wolf will be missed dearly by her children Marvin Wolf (Judith) and Estelle Bebbie Brust. She is survived by five grandchildren, Jack Bru
 WYETH--Flavia Helen, scholar, artist, good neighbor, loyal friend, born in Ohio on February 27, 1908 and died at her home in Huntington, NY May 15, 2003. An innovative, dynamic teacher dedicated to excellence in education, she taught English and Humanities at Huntington HS for 30 years. A m
 Dorothy Nelkin, a New York University sociologist who chronicled the uneasy relationship between science and society, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was cancer, the university said. Professor Nelkin, a prolific author who began her research
 COHEN--Bernice Kreindler (Bunny). Beloved and cherished wife of Dr. Ira Bernard Cohen, devoted mother of Amy Cohen Burack, and Bonnie Cohen Rooney and her loving husband William J. Rooney, loving grandmother of Jacob Burack, Kevin and Meghan Rooney, and devoted sister-in-law of Florence Kal
 MINICHIELLO--Sophie. Age 86, on May 31, 2003. Born in Manhattan. Graduated St. John's University School of Pharmacy in 1939. Resided in Sheepshead Bay. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Survived by her children Frances, Joseph, George, Marie, Ann and the late Rita, and their spouses, Linda, G
 SOCCOLICH--Blanche Zelinka, on May 30, 2003. Beloved wife of Miro, together for 34 years. Enjoyed her family and friends. We will miss her dearly. >>AD#       
 SPIRO--Miriam Rosenblum. 81, on May 31, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Spiro. Devoted mother of Bette Neuman, Arlene Levine and Bonnie Schinagle and mother-in-law of George, Jerry and Joe. Dear grandmother of Mark and Jennie, Joseph and Emily, Allison and Laura. Survived by her siste
 WEINGARTEN--Nikki. May 21, 2003. Wife of the late Herbert. Despite sickness and adversity, Nikki had an unflagging spirit and lively intellectual curiosity. Her warmth and engaging personality were the rewards for those who knew her. She leaves her sister Selma, niece Barbara and her husban
 WOLLMAN--Anne. Devoted wife of Paul. Cherished mother of Eric and Karen and mother-in-law of Emily and Ken. Adoring grandmother of Melanie and Jane. Beloved sister of Marion and the late Ethel. Anne succumbed to cancer on May 31, 2003. Her loving attention to family and friends will never b
 ZIRINSKY--Ruth (Spector). We will all miss her, but she lived a full life and fought a valiant battle. Gilda, Daniel, Laura, Paula, Steven and Mark Zirinsky and Family >>AD#       
 COLLINS--Janet. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of Janet Collins, a principal dancer in the company's ballet from 1951 to 1954 and the first African American member of the Met company. She will long be remembered not only for her historic role, but also for her exquisite arti
 CROUTER -- Agathe. The Hewitt School community mourns the loss of Agathe K. Crouter, who served Hewitt as its head of school from 1980-1990. Agathe's inspirational and dedicated leadership influenced the growth and development of The Hewitt School in innumerable ways. We extend our deepest 
 FIRST--Joanna. The Board of Directors, staff and children past and present of National Dance Institute deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend, advocate and Board member. Joanna gave unstintingly of her time, care and love to NDI for over 20 years. Through her energy and commitment, she he
 GOLDFARB--Fay. On June 1, 2003, of Lake Worth, FL; formerly of NYC. Beloved sister of Dorothy, sister-in-law of Ann and cherished Aunt Fay to her many nieces and nephews. A part of our lives is missing. Services at Schwartz Bros., 114-03 Queens Boulevard in Forest Hills, NY, 12:30 pm Wednes
 GREENWALD--Herbert. The Board of Directors, members and staff of JOFA, the Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance, extend their heartfelt condolences to our Board member Rose Landowne upon the passing of her beloved father, Herbert Greenwald. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zio
 KELLY--Helen Byrne Hackett. Actor, age 77, died at Sweet Brook Care Center in Williamstown MA, on May 30, 2003. Born in NYC on June 3, 1925 to E. Byrne Hackett, founder of Yale University Press at Yale, and Helen Pleckner Hackett, of the Hackett Galleries on East 57th Street, NYC. A graduat
 KOHLER--Joan, of Tucson, formerly of Huntington, NY, passed away on May 31, 2003. Devoted wife of Robert Kohler, loving mother of Glenn Fishman and Mark Fishman and cherished grandmother of Robert, Julia, Adrienne, Adam and Michelle. Her musical spirit will live on. A memorial service will 
 SPANIER--Jeffrey. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Jeffrey Spanier, beloved husband of Paula Spanier. We extend our deepest condolences to Paula and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President >>AD#       
 SPERBER--Frances Wayne of New York, NY. Passed away June 1, 2003, at the age of 85. Wife of the late Seymour Sperber; step-mother of Jeffrey Sperber and Cindy Frost; step-mother-in-law of Janis Sperber and Dean Frost; step-grandmother of Marc, Marisa and Sara; sister of Kay Wagner. We will 
 STARK--Karen. On June 1, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sanford. Loving mother of Stephen and Joan. Cherished grandmother of Anthony, Sanford and Victoria, and great-grandmother of eight. She will be sorely missed but not forgotten by everyone who knew and loved her. Services private. >>AD#
 STUDER--Lillian (nee Rosenberg). Died peacefully at home on June 2, 2003 after a long illness. Lillian was born in Pittsburgh, PA and was a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh. After WWII, she moved to New York City where she worked for many years as an advertising copy writer for seve
 WOLLMAN--Anne. Devoted wife of Paul. Cherished mother of Eric and Karen and mother-in-law of Emily and Ken. Adoring grandmother of Melanie and Jane. Beloved sister of Marion and the late Ethel. Anne succumbed to cancer on May 31, 2003. Her loving attention to family and friends will never b
 CAPP--Edith. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Trude Strauss on the passing of her beloved sister. As Golden Founders of the Medical Center, Trude and Norbert Strauss exemplify the highest values of Jewish tradition and their outstretched hands of kindness make an invaluable contributi
 FINDLAY -- Harriet Jones, died peacefully at her home in New Canaan, CT, on May 25th. She was 95 years old and had lived in New Canaan for 62 years. She pursued many interests during her lifetime, including Christian philanthropy, Bible studies, horticulture and gardening, antiques and art 
 GOODMAN--Florence (nee Krieger). Died peacefully at her Palm Desert, CA home on June 2 at age 86. Loving wife to the late Martin. Beloved sister to Robert. Cherished mother of Joan and Gary. Inspiration to grandchildren Robert, Elizabeth and Kendall. Her love of family, tennis and baseball 
 GUMPRECHT--Barbara Philip. On June 2, 2003. Age 87. Born in Hamburg, Germany in 1915, she came to this country in 1941. Loving mother, wife, therapist and artist. She brought beauty and color into our lives. We will miss her. She is survived by her son Jeffrey, her daughter Eva, her brother
 SOBEL--Anne E. 75 years old, of the Bronx, N.Y. On May 31, 2003. Devoted mother of Jack, Selma, Susan and Robin and loving grandmother. Predeceased by the late Hyman. President of the Einstein Chapter of Cancer Care, to which donations may be made in her memory. >>AD#       
 STUDER--Lillian (nee Rosenberg). Died peacefully at home on June 2, 2003 after a long illness. Lillian was born in Pittsburgh, PA and was a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh. After WWII, she moved to New York City where she worked for many years as an advertising copy writer for seve
 The Rev. Shirley Bulah Stamps, whose parents' fight for her to ride a school bus became part of the 1954 Supreme Court case that ended school segregation, died on Wednesday in Wilmington, Del. She was 59. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Shirley B
 DAVIES--Etta. On June 3, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Carole Sohn and her husband Howard Dinowitz and Iris Duwe and her husband Kevin. Adored grandmother of Moira, Adam, Ian, Nicole, Heather and Beau; great grandmother of Brandon, Ashley and Zachary; dear sister o
 DELL--Maren. Dan Klores Communications deeply mourns the loss of our colleague and friend Maren Dell. We will always remember her bright smile, warm spirit and dedicated work ethic. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, June 8, 11:30am at Goldsteins' Rosenberg's Raphael-Sacks Funeral H
 FINDLAY -- Harriet Jones, died peacefully at her home in New Canaan, CT, on May 25th. She was 95 years old and had lived in New Canaan for 62 years. She pursued many interests during her lifetime, including Christian philanthropy, Bible studies, horticulture and gardening, antiques and art 
 GONZALEZ--Olive R. On June 3, 2003 at the age of 86. Widow of Edward W. Gonzalez, beloved and devoted mother of Edward W. Jr., Peter W. and Susan G. Lyons. Grandmother of Donna Brackin, Olivia and Paul Lyons, Peter Gonzalez and great grandchildren Adam and Lindsay Brackin and Liam Endres. S
 LONG--Anne T., died on June 3rd, in St. Joseph's Hospital in Wayne, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Richard D. Long. Beloved mother of Richard T. Long and Mary Long Fitch. Grandmother of Karen Fitch and Maureen Fitch Bruhns; great-grandmother of Ellie, Angie and Amy. Before her retirement in 1
 ECKER--Eleanor Winer, 94, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of Staten Island. Wife of the late Felix Ecker. Beloved sister of Beatrice W. Gollubier. Loving aunt of Charlotte Gollubier. Passed on June 5, 2003. Her smile and her spirit will be greatly missed. >>AD#       
 GONZALEZ--Olive R. On June 3, 2003 at the age of 86. Widow of Edward W. Gonzalez, beloved and devoted mother of Edward W. Jr., Peter W. and Susan G. Lyons. Grandmother of Donna Brackin, Olivia and Paul Lyons, Peter Gonzalez and great grandchildren Adam and Lindsay Brackin and Liam Endres. S
 MOSCATO--Marion H. The officers, staff and members of the Alumni Federation of Columbia University are deeply saddened by the passing of its staunchest supporter and director, Marion, on June 4, 2003. Prior to her retirement in 1983, she was an associate director with the University's Devel
 PFIFFERLING -- Nancy. Of Brooklyn, age 56, passed away June 1, 2003 of lung cancer. Survived by beloved husband Joe, producer ''ABC News 20/20'', and brother Neil Lehane. Celebratory Mass June 14th, 2003, 9:30 am Fontbonne Hall Academy, Bay Ridge where she taught languages for over 30 years
 SCHINDLER--Rose, on June 4, 2003, at age 73. Beloved wife of Stephen Schindler. Loving mother of Henry Cornell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Friday 79pm & Saturday 9-11am. Contributions in her memory may be made to Grinnell College, Office of the Pres
 SOLOMON -- Mildred Free man. Died peacefully on June 5, 2003. Dearly beloved wife of Leon Solomon and the late Robert Freeman. Devoted mother to Douglas and Ruth, Randall and Flora, and Keith and Marianne. Adoring grandmother to Hank and Amy, Zachary and Dana, Howard, Melissa, Robert, Jesse
 STEWART--Elizabeth Jean. 88, died May 28 in Anaheim, CA. Jean was Reverend Emeritus of Christ Church Unity in Anaheim, which she founded in 1962. Among many beloved survivors: nephews, Richard Decius of Napa, CA, Steven Stewart of Baltimore, MD, Robert Boyd of Hilton Head, SC and a niece, N
 SULLIVAN--Rosemarie Astone died at her home in Atlanta, Georgia on Tuesday, May 27, 2003. Rosie was a devoted mother, grandmother, and educator who treasured her family and her wonderful friends. She lived by The Golden Rule and loved and respected all people regardless of their background 
 TIFFT--Jane. Douglas Elliman mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague Jane Tifft of our 137 Waverly Place office. She will be greatly missed. >>AD#       
 Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95. On an autumn evening in 1942 she was in her early t
 Lois Fried Rosenfield, a theatrical and film producer with her husband, Maurice, died on May 25 at her home in Glencoe, Ill. She was 78. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Rosenfield and her husband backed Broadway productions like ''Barnum'' (1980), a 1983 revival 
 BARTH--Louise. Died on June 6, 2003. Loving wife of Ben. Mother of Bob, Betsy, Rich and Bruce. Grandmother of Tyler, Marissa, Jessica, Emily and Alex. Mother-inlaw of Suzie and Joseph. Sister of Marvin. Her family will always miss her. Funeral services Sunday, June 8, 11:30AM, at Zion Memor
 MARCUS--Estelle Feld. Died at her home in Mt. Vernon, NY, on June 6th. Devoted wife of the late Frank P. Marcus. Loving mother of their three children: Ivan G. Marcus, of New Rochelle, NY; Marris J.M. Kramer, of Manchester Centre, VT; and Leonard S. Marcus, of Brooklyn, NY. She is also surv
 SCHINDLER--Rose, on June 4, 2003, at age 73. Beloved wife of Stephen Schindler. Loving mother of Henry Cornell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Friday 79pm & Saturday 9-11am. Contributions in her memory may be made to Grinnell College, Office of the Pres
 SOLOMON -- Mildred Free man. Died peacefully on June 5, 2003. Dearly beloved wife of Leon Solomon and the late Robert Freeman. Devoted mother to Douglas and Ruth, Randall and Flora, and Keith and Marianne. Adoring grandmother to Hank and Amy, Zachary and Dana, Howard, Melissa, Robert, Jesse
 TRYNIN--Terry, 97 years old, of Brooklyn, NY on June 3, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Honey. Mother of Jane Feder and mother-in-law of Al Feder. ''Mama'' to Richie and Bobby and Linda and Malka and ''Great Mama'' to Kenny and Lauren and to Shaya, Sara Rachel, Chana Rifka, Menachem and Chai
 CADWELL--Franchellie Margaret. On May 25, 2003, at her home in New York. Memorial Mass at St. Thomas More R.C. Church, 65 E. 89 St, Friday, June 13, 2003 at 10:30am. One of the first women to own a national advertising agency. Ms. Cadwell was known in the advertising world as ''Frankie''. S
 KIRKPATRICK--Nancy G. 86, of East Windsor, N.J. died June 5, 2003 at Meadow Lakes. She had been a resident of Princeton, N.J. for over 50 years before moving to Meadow Lakes in 1996. Born in Maplewood, N.J., she was a graduate of Columbia High School and Chatham Hall. She was a member of Tr
 PICKERING--Mercedes (Mechy) Alfonso. On April 28, Mechy Pickering died suddenly in Buenos Aires, Argentina, while visiting her sister. Mechy, born in Cuba in 1916, moved to the U.S. in 1928 with her parents. A graduate of St. Joseph's deCluny, Madrid, Spain, and the Aikin School, St. Peters
 YELLIN--Lynn R. (nee Yarry). Died peacefully in her home in Cobble Hill-Brooklyn, NY, on June 5, 2003. She fought a courageous and inspirational battle with cancer. She was one of the top real estate brokers at the William B. May Company in Brooklyn. She also worked at McGraw Hill in Market
 ABRAMOVITZ -- Anita. 89, died peacefully at home in Pound Ridge on June 4. She is survived by her loving husband Max Abramovitz and her three children, Antoinette Brooks - Floyd, Cora V. Brooks, and Henry S. Brooks. >>AD#       
 BARTH--Louise. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Ben, her children Robert, Richard, Bruce, Elizabeth and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel, Rabb
 ELGIN--Laura Celia Lyra. On June 4, 2003, of Lambertville, NJ, formerly of New York City. Wife of the late James Douglas Elgin, mother of Robin Diana Lyra-Siano and her husband Jay Siano, sister of Audrey Quackenbush and James Counselman. Funeral services Tuesday, 3 PM, at the Van Horn-McDo
 SCHOEMAN--Linda H. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Linda Schoeman, our highly respected and loved colleague. Dr. Schoeman was a gifted psychologist and made a difference in the lives of countless
 SLOAN--Jennifer. Age 35 of Farmington, CT, on Friday June 6 at UConn Medical Center. She was the wife of Robert Laraia. Ms. Sloan was born April 29, 1968 in New York, daughter of David and Joan (Goodman) Sloan. In addition to her husband and parents, she is survived by her daughter, Michell
 TERRANOVA--Antoinette, 98 on May 25th in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Devoted wife of the late Ben. Survived by her children Jeannette and Joseph, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. >>AD#       
 FEINGOLD -- Jessica. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Dr. Jessica Feingold, former longtime Executive Director of its Institute for Religious and Social Studies and Officer of the Administration. She will be remembered by all who knew her for her sharp intellige
 IVES--Helen, a prominent New York City real estate attorney and widow of the late Brewster Ives, former chairman of Douglas Elliman Gibbons and Ives, died peacefully at her home in Manhattan on Sunday, June 8th. She is survived by her nieces, Jane E. Tuohy and Anne T. Scriptunas, and her ne
 KORENSTEIN--Rita. On June 7, 2003 with her loved ones at her bedside. Beloved and devoted aunt, great-aunt, sister and daughter. All who knew her know she was a special lady. She will be greatly missed. Contributions to a charity of your choice in her name would be appreciated. >>AD#       
 HOLZMAN--Myrna (Cohen). On June 6. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Alfred Holzman. Cherished sister of Shirley Carlin. Devoted mother of Patricia Holzman and Bonnie Tucker. Loving mother-inlaw of Francois Bohn and Jeffrey Tucker. Adored grandmother of Joanna Tucker. She will be deeply missed b
 IVES--Helen, a prominent New York City real estate attorney and widow of the late Brewster Ives, former chairman of Douglas Elliman Gibbons and Ives, died peacefully at her home in Manhattan on Sunday, June 8th. She is survived by her nieces, Jane E. Tuohy and Anne T. Scriptunas, and her ne
 LEVINE--David T. The Board of Directors of Penn South Social Services, Inc., are saddened at the death of David Levine, loving father of our board member Bette. Our sympathies go out to Bette and her family. Nat Yalowitz, President David Smith, Chairman >>AD#       
 LYON--Alice, age 68, on June 6, 2003, of Sag Harbor, NY. Beloved wife of Larry Perrine. Loving mother of Cecil and Maya Auchincloss and sister of Dr. Lilla Lyon. Alice was the granddaughter and daughter of diplomats and lived the world over. She spoke five languages, painted, entertained wi
 SEROTTA--Jessie, on June 8, at home, with her devoted family at her bedside. She will be greatly missed by all who had the privilege of knowing her. May her family find comfort in their memories. Our sincere condolences, The Brucker Family >>AD#       
 SERRANO -- Braulia. (Nee Vazquez - Roman). Died peacefully at home in New York City on June 4, 2003. Predeceased by husband Manuel Serrano-Martinez and son Victor Manuel Serrano. Born May 26, 1913 in Humacao, Puerto Rico, daughter of Benedicto Vazquez-Sosa and Dominga Roman-Gonzalez. She mo
 YELLIN--Lynn. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend & esteemed colleague. Lynn was a Vice President and Real Estate Broker with this firm since 1986 and was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with her. Her courage and her determination cont
 Beverly Bailis Karp, a producer of films and plays and a co-producer of the film ''My Dinner With André,'' died on Tuesday at her home in New York. She was 72. The cause was emphysema, her son David said. Mrs. Karp and George W. George produced ''My Dinner With André,'' st
 COURTNEY -- Renee (born Salama), exemplary culinary artist, died peacefully on June 10, 2003. She is mourned by her daughters, Heather Perrin and Cherryll Hopcraft, and by her grandchildren, Roanne, Martin, Brent, Mark and Barney in England. She is survived by her beloved sister, Vicky Nama
 KUPERBERG--Etta Oliven. Died on Wednesday at her home, she was 82. She was born in New York City, and lived in Brooklyn, NY for most of her life. Etta was a secretary for Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company in NYC for 19 years, retiring in 1985. Etta will be missed by all who loved her. Buria
 SYMONDS--Margaret Preston, 91, formerly of Wilton, CT, died on June 7 in Peterborough, NH. She was the wife of the late George W.D. Symonds and the mother of the late Robert H. Symonds. Her two sons, George D. Symonds of Sheldon, ND and David P. Symonds of Key West, FL; and a daughter Franc
 GREENFIELD--Charlotte, on June 12th. Devoted wife of the late Jack. Loving mother to Harriet and David. Adoring grandmother of Alan and Susan. Proud great grandmother of Joshua, Alexander and Jake. Died peacefully in her sleep. Private graveside services Friday June 13th. >>AD#       
 KOCH--Selma. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired records with deep sorrow the passing of Selma Koch. She was a most dedicated supporter of VISIONS and Vacation Camp for the Blind, president of the Board of Directors from 1949 to 1953, and
 SCHWARTZ--Puah. Loving and beloved wife of Lawrence, devoted and beloved mother of Gil and Ethan. A native of Jerusalem who courageously served as a volunteer in Israel's War of Independence, served in Israel's Foreign Service, and raised a family in her cherished adopted land. A woman of v
 WILLIAMS -- Eda Dunstan. Peacefully at home on June 12, 2003 in Mountain Lake, FL. in her 95th year after a long illness. Daughter of James Samuel Dunstan and Eda Kempshall Dunstan. Widow of Ichabod Thomas Williams, mother of Thomas Williams, Inverness, CA, Samuel D. Williams of New York Ci
 ZUCKER--Betty R. Of Great Neck, NY, on June 11, 2003. Adoring wife of the late Nathan Zucker, beloved mother of Elyse and Brian, cherished grandmother of Jesse, Neil and Harry. She was a retired New York City Board of Education special education ESL teacher. Painting was her impassioned lov
 DIAMANT--Regina (Gini), 84, on June 13, 2003. Beloved mother of Vivian Goldberg and Gregory Diamant and their spouses Lee and Irene. Loving sister of Dorothea Gorman, Rudi Weiff and the late Sabina Weinberger. Devoted grandmother to Caroline and Raphael Cabasso and Cass Vanini. She was love
 FISHMAN--Shirley. Devoted mother and Mental Health Leader died on Thursday at her home in Moriches, Long Island at the age of 73. Shirley was born in Brooklyn, NY, and moved to Manhattan and Long Island with her husband, Sidney who predeceased her on October 17, 1996. Prior to her retiremen
 GEWIRTZ--Dorothy. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of Dorothy Gewirtz. We will miss her indomitable spirit, devotion to family and friends and her courage under affliction. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her devoted husband, Arthur, our beloved Rabbi Matthew Gewirtz and Laur
 KOCH--Selma. Passed away June 12th after 96 wonderful years. Wife of the late Henry. Mother of Peter and David (Phyliss). Mother-in-law of Peggy, aunt of Ann Smith. Sister of the late Peggy Reinstein. Friend of Ellie Silverman. Grandmother of Jackie, Danny and Robert, Richard, Steven and Su
 Selma Koch, a Manhattan store owner who earned a national reputation by helping women find the right bra size, mostly through a discerning glance and never with a tape measure, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 95 and a 34B. In the final years of her life, Mrs. Ko
 ADAMS--Adelaide B. 93, of New York City, and formerly of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on June 13th after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Daniel P. Adams, and sister of the late Marjorie P. Starr. Cherised mother of Nancy Adams Downey and Marjorie Adams Cooke. Devoted mother-in-law 
 DiMAGGIO--Helen. Daughter of deceased Marion DiMaggio and beloved sister of Robert J. DiMaggio passed away peacefully after a short illness at Roosevelt Hospital. Helen was an active member of civic affairs as well as a volunteer for St. Patrick's Cathedral, in honor of her adored St. There
 FISHMAN--Shirley. Devoted mother and Mental Health Leader died on Thursday at her home in Moriches, Long Island at the age of 73. Shirley was born in Brooklyn, NY, and moved to Manhattan and Long Island with her husband, Sidney who predeceased her on October 17, 1996. Prior to her retiremen
 KARP--Beverly B. The Joyce Dutka Arts Foundation expresses profound sorrow on the death of Beverly B. Karp. Her services as judge of the juried JDAF playwriting competition was invaluable. The Board of Directors >>AD#       
 KARR--Ingrid E., 58, of Geneva, IL, formerly of NYC. Wife of Michael. Daughter of the late Erich and Ellen (Launhardt) Kallweit. Died June 10, after a 20 month fight with lung cancer. Private memorial services will be held July 6, at her home. For information call, 630-232-7337. >>AD#      
 KENNY--Ursula, on June 11, 2003, at the Mother Cabrini Hospice, 227 East 19th Street, New York City: Greatly mourned by her loving family and devoted friends. Cremation immediate. A memorial Mass and a celebration of darling Ursula's life will be held at the Church of the Epiphany, 239 Seco
 LEICESTER--Agnes I. Of New York City and Belmont, Vermont, died in London on February 18, 2003. A celebratory memorial to honor her life will be held in Belmont on Saturday, June 21, from 3-5 PM; 802-259-2577, >>AD#       
 LEVINSON--Rose, 95, in Tamarac, FL, on June 5th, 2003. Formerly of NYC. Proud first generation American who lived the 20th century. Adored, loving and devoted mother to Marcy and to Elyse Mintz. Caring grandmother to Janna and Claudia and great-grandmother to Emily, Jared and Tauby. One of 
 ROSENKRANTZ -- Brookie. On June 13, 2003. A beautiful person. Beloved wife of the late Irving. A wonderful mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was loved and will be dearly missed. >>AD#       
 THOMAS--Rachele (nee Milano), Mrs. Richard Edelman. Noted psychologist, psychotherapist and author died May 31, 2003, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband and her four children Susan, Carole, Jordan, and Jonathan, her son-in-law Charles Stonecypher and her grandchildren Juli
 WILLIAMS -- Eda Dunstan. Peacefully at home on June 12, 2003 in Mountain Lake, FL. in her 95th year after a long illness. Daughter of James Samuel Dunstan and Eda Kempshall Dunstan. Widow of Ichabod Thomas Williams, mother of Thomas Williams, Inverness, CA, Samuel D. Williams of New York Ci
 ABDELNOUR -- Lila Helen. Born in 1923 in Manhattan to Rashida and Abdul Massih (Albert) Haddad. Mr. Haddad, an immigrant from Syria at the turn of the century later became Publisher and Editor-in-Chief of the one of the first Arabic journals in New York, called As-Sayeh, which means ''The T
 ADAMS--Adelaide B. 93, of New York City, and formerly of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on June 13th after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Daniel P. Adams, and sister of the late Marjorie P. Starr. Cherished mother of Nancy Adams Downey and Marjorie Adams Cooke. Devoted mother-in-law
 BELLER--Fannie. Died at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Charles. She leaves a loving son, Kalman; four grandchildren, Michael, Elise, Jesse and Charley; a large family and numerous admirers. Services 10 AM, Tuesday, ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st and Amsterdam Ave. Family will obs
 GLUECKSELIG -- Leo. On June 14, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Ita. Loving father of Nina and her former husband Chuck Hersch. Adoring grandfather of Max and Gabriel. Dear brother-in-law of Gaby. Treasured friend of Janet Gerson. A great artist and inspiring human being to all. Services 
 KAUFMAN--Cheryl. 55, of Woodcliff Lake, NJ, on June 15, 2003. She was a speech therapist. Member of Temple Emanuel of Pascack Valley in Woodcliff Lake, NJ. Survived by her beloved husband Joel of thirty years, loving children Scott, Craig and Robert, parents Louis and Adele Kaplan, siblings
 KLEINBERG--Frances (nee Victor). Wife of the late Dr. Maurice R. Beloved mother of Dr. David and Judith Warshal. Devoted grandmother of Jamie Warshal and Bryna Steinberg. Great-grandmother of Jordan, Benjamin and Jacqueline. She will be deeply missed. In lieu of flowers contributions to Fou
 KRAMER - DURHAM -- Peggy. 81, of Tamarac, FL, passed away June 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Herbert. Cherished sister of Rosalind Koenig and Stanley Durham. Best friend of Hannah Unger. She served her country as a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. Army during WWII and became the Instructor of Nurs
 PYLE--Dorothy Collings. 91, formerly of the Oranges, Short Hills and Springfield, New Jersey and a summer resident of Mantoloking, NJ, died peacefully on June 12, 2003, in the Health Care Center at Harrogate in Lakewood, NJ. She was born in Riverton, NJ, on March 22, 1912, the only daughter
 RIGGIO--Marcella M. 92, of Palm Beach, FL, died June 13, 2003; graduated Horace Mann School, Finch Junior College, member of The Beach Club, Palm Beach, FL. Survived by sons Philip of Palm Beach, Louis and daughter-in-law Patricia of Hollywood; grandchildren Gisela and Allegra; was prececea
 ROSENBLUM--Gertrude. 88, of Englishtown, NJ, died peacefully June 14, 2003. Beloved family matriarch, devoted friend and spirited life pundit. She lives in the hearts of all who love her. >>AD#       
 SCHUBERT -- Ilene Senter. Adored wife of Robert A. Schubert. Loving mother of Emily. Beloved daughter of Leila. Cherished sister of Michael and Lisa and their children Andrew and Vicky. Your indomitable spirit will be with us forever. Services will be 11 AM, today, at Temple Israel of New R
 SENIE--Dorothy. Peacefully, on June 14, in her 94th year after a long illness. Wife of the late Bernard. Mother of Michael and Stephen. Grandmother of David, Daniel, Laura, Brian and Jeremy. Greatgrandmother of Cordelia. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions may be made to Barnard
 ADAMS--Adelaide B. 93, of New York City, and formerly of Wilton, CT, died peacefully on June 13th after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Daniel P. Adams, and sister of the late Marjorie P. Starr. Cherished mother of Nancy Adams Downey and Marjorie Adams Cooke. Devoted mother-in-law
 FINGERHUT -- Sarah. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the mother of its esteemed member, Mrs. Hannah Frankel. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President FINGERHUT --
 FLEISHMAN--Naomi. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Naomi Fleishman, beloved mother of Stanley Fleishman, and mother-inlaw of Martine Fleishman. A cherished friend of UJA-Federation, Martine served on the Executive Committee for m
 McDEVITT--Carol Lee (nee Gardner), 59, of Glens Falls, NY. On June 16, 2003, after a courageous and valiant battle with a brain tumor. Beloved wife of Peter V. McDevitt, devoted, loving and much-loved mother of Heather K. McDevitt of Manhattan and P. Brent McDevitt of Lake George, NY. Cheri
 PETRIE--Elizabeth M. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Elizabeth M. Petrie. Elizabeth served on the Whitney Museum Board of Trustees from 1981 through 1991. During her tenure, she provided the Museum
 PYLE--Dorothy Collings. 91, formerly of the Oranges, Short Hills and Springfield, New Jersey and a summer resident of Mantoloking, NJ, died peacefully on June 12, 2003, in the Health Care Center at Harrogate in Lakewood, NJ. She was born in Riverton, NJ, on March 22, 1912, the only daughter
 SEELY--Ruth Talbot. A 50 year resident of Greenwich passed away at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center on Friday June 13, 2003. She was 85. Born in New York City on November 15, 1917. She was the daughter of the late Benjamin and Elizabeth Holton Talbot. Mrs. Seely was a graduate of Smit
 SIEGEL--Sydelle, May 11, 1917-June 15, 2003. Wife of late Benjamin Siegel. Mother of Marilyn, Norman, Gary and Scott. Mother-in-law of Gail, Saralee and Norma. Grandmother of Brian and David. Step-grandmother of Matthew, Rachel, Chad and Ryan. Step great-grandmother of Shani, Emma, Gilad an
 TARRY--Alice, Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Services today, 12:45 PM at the ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave Peter Neustadter, Parnas >>AD#       
 ZIGMAN--Sylvia. At the age of 84 years. Wife of the late Morris Zigman. Mother of Warren Zigman and Barbara Zigman. Mother-in-law of April Zigman. Loving grandmother of the two lights of her life, Marisa Zigman and Abigail Zigman. Died peacefully in her sleep on June 14th, 2003. She will be
 FISCHBACH--Marilyn C. The associates and the artists of Fischbach Gallery are extremely saddened by the passing of Marilyn C. Fischbach who died in Paris on June 15th. Marilyn Fischbach, a vibrant art dealer, had the courage to recognize and present young talent. She founded the gallery in 
 GONZALEZ -- Emma (nee Sullivan) on June 16, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arthur L. Loving mother of Maria McCabe, Manuela Sullivan and Arthur J. Gonzalez. Dear sister of Helen S. Madden and the late James J. Sullivan. Fond mother-in-law of John J. McCabe, Richard Sullivan and Marie N. Gon
 KONHEIM -- Estelle (nee Mitchell). 82, passed away at her home after a brief illness on June 17 with her family by her side. Beloved wife to the late Ralph Konheim and sister of the late Jean Mitchell. Estelle was the cherished mother of Patricia Heffron, Nancy Greene and Ann Polansky. Lovi
 MURPHY--Joan E. June 17, 2003. Beloved sister of John W. Murphy, the late Vincent R. Murphy and the late Vivian M. Keeler. Loving aunt of Robert, Thomas, Raymond, Mary, Jane, William, John and Kate. She will also be missed by her 26 greatnieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Camp
 RAICOVICH -- Candace Lile nee Bernard. On June 15, 2003. Beloved wife of Gene and mother of Eric. Cherished daughter of George Bernard of Redding, CT and the late Ellen de Roode of Westport, CT, and loving sister of Randolph and Michael. She was truly a gift from God and will always be in t
 GOLD--Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Lewis Gold. Loving mother of Jay and Arlene. Cherished grandmother of Scott and Peter and great grandmother of Sam and Grace. She will be loved and missed by all who knew her. >>AD#       
 KRASNOW -- Miriam. Died peacefully in her 96th year. June 18, 2003. Graveside services at Mount Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, New Jersey, Friday, June 20, at 1:30 PM. >>AD#       
 TAYLOR--Susanne, 58, died June 17th at her home in Ambler, PA. She is survived by her partner, Dene Harris, her mother, Gladys Lawrence, three siblings, six children, Mary Margaret Bruni, William, Melissa, Susan, Katherine, Thomas Francis Monser, 12 grandchildren. Memorial service will be h
 Marilyn Cole Fischbach, the founder and former sole owner of the Fischbach Gallery in Manhattan, known for showing work by young artists, died on Sunday in Paris. She was 72 and had lived mainly in Paris for two decades. She had a long illness, said her sister, Sheila Cole. 
 DAILEY--Evelyn H. Died June 11, 2003, peacefully at home in New York City; Five days short of a century of joy from her adoring family and friends, music, books and handcrafts. Predeceased by her husband Louis B. after a marriage of 63 years. She is survived by her twin sons Robert H., MD o
 GOULD--Byrdie, loving wife, devoted mother and motherin-law, a wonderful grandmother and great-grandmother. A great lady who created love and happiness during the 92 plus years of her life. The memories that her family and friends have will live in their hearts forever. She will be missed a
 GUERRERO--Ann, died June 16th, at age 92. Wife of Edward. Daughter of Frances and Benjamin Bielski. Sister of Stella Hecht, Mary Leskey and Stan Bielski. Survived by her children, Peter Guerrero and Patricia Walker; her grandchildren, Jonathan Guerrero and Sean and Tara Walker, and her sist
 KAILENTA--Edna M. On June 19, 2003 at age 98. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Karen and mother-in-law of Michael Goodman. Cherished grandmother of Craig Cook and David Goodman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Saturday 11AM. Interment to fol
 MARYMONT--Marcia (nee Stettin) of Voorhees, NJ, formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Loving wife for close to 50 years of Joseph Marymont. Sister of Esther Beck and Ireene Mickenberg. Also survived by nieces and nephews and many dear friends. She dedicated her life for 55 years to the service of handic
 BAUM--Audrey. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Audrey Baum. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President >>AD#       
 GOULD--Byrdie, loving wife, devoted mother and motherin-law, a wonderful grandmother and great-grandmother. A great lady who created love and happiness during the 92 plus years of her life. The memories that her family and friends have will live in their hearts forever. She will be missed a
 LAUBER--Greta. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Marion Lauber. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood >>AD#       
 Doris Bass Andrews, who with her husband, Sperry Andrews, pursued the preservation of Weir Farm, where the Impressionist painter J. Alden Weir and friends met for painting and social activity, died on May 25 in Danbury, Conn. She was 82. The farm, in Ridgefield and Wilton, Conn., is
 BARR--Patricia A. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College expresses its heartfelt sorrow to her husband, Rolf Sternberg, her daughters, Shira and Tava Sternberg, and her mother, Marie Barr, on the death of Patriciawife, mother and daughter. With her selfless activism, community organizing,
 BEGELL--Esther Kessler. On June 21, 2003, after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife of William. Loving sister of Elena. She will be missed by her devoted companion Sheila, her family in Mexico and in the United States, and her many friends. Service Monday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th
 FELMAN--Tova. The Yeshiva University and affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary families are saddened by the passing of a highly respected rebbetzin and Jewish community leader, who together with her husband, YU and RIETS alumnus, Rabbi Dr. Meir Felman are YU Guardians. Our si
 GONZALEZ--Emma. A valued staff member, she contributed significantly to our services to New Yorkers for more than 22 years, especially as Director of Volunteers. The Board of Trustees Of The American Red Cross In Greater New York >>AD#       
 GOULD--Byrdie. Byrdie was the rare person who looked for beauty and goodness in everything she surveyed. She felt very blessed and adored her cherished husband, Stuart, her children, Fred and Helaine and Jay and Luetta, and her grandchildren and great grandchildren. She expressed her happin
 KAHN--Elaine, 78, on June 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Phillip Kahn; loving mother of Beth Kahn and her companion Deborah Ford, and grandmother of Leah Kahn; dear sister of Betty Ann Simmons and William T. Ward. Memorial service Monday, June 23rd, 11AM at Brick Presbyterian Church, Par
 MARTIN - SCHNEID -- Terry. June 17. Noted NY interior designer. Beloved friend and Scrabble buddy. Mom to Pernod and Loren. Loving wife to Howard who went before her. They'll always have Paris. See you at Pont Neuf. >>AD#       
 MUZZY--Maria Louisa Dahlander, 100, of Englewood, NJ, passed away June 8, 2003. Predeceased by her husband, Franklin Goodspeed Muzzy, and daughter, Mary Jane Holden, she is survived by her daughters, Sally Foster and Susan Carneal, and son, John Muzzy, twelve grandchildren and twenty-four g
 NICKELSON--Marilyn Stone. 72. June 20, 2003, in Las Vegas, NV, from complications caused by emphysema. What a lady! She died young. Chronologically she was 72, but her intellectual presence was always with the here and now. Marilyn was born into a conservative midwestern culture in Tiffin, 
 PETRIE--Elizabeth M. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Elizabeth M. Petrie. Elizabeth served on the Whitney Museum Board of Trustees from 1981 through 1991. During her tenure, she provided the Museum
 BENNETT--Pearl. We longtime friends and admirers of Pearl Bennett mourn the death at 92 of our dear and gallant friend. Deeply concerned following a devastating accident that irrevocably changed her life, we united to help Pearl as she contended with grave injuries. A delight to all through
 CLARK--Olive Marion. 80, passed to eternal life June 21, 2003, in Lenox, MA. Daughter of Earle and Mildred Roberts, she was born and educated in New York City, where she also studied under George Balanchine at the School of American Ballet and sang in choirs, including the Collegiate Choral
 GORDON -- Norma Schnall. On January 30, 2003, at home in Tarzana, CA. Today marks the 57th anniversary of her marriage to writer Edwin Gordon. Born July 30, 1926, to Morris and Hattie Schnall in The Bronx; B.S. in education and M.A. in psychology from City College; resided in Wantagh; follo
 KNOWLTON--Erica. Widow of Hugh Knowlton, loving and beloved stepmother of his four children, died peacefully on June 14, 2003. She will be greatly missed by her extended family and many friends. Gifts in her memory should be sent to The Central Park Conservancy, 14 East 60 St, New York, New
 LEDERER -- Adele (nee Weil). 86, passed away June 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David Halpern and Howard Lederer. Loving mother of Linda (Peyton) Kulman. Cherished grandmother of Christy. Adele was recognized by her elegance, grace and style. Her memory will remain forever in our heart
 MUZZY--Maria Louisa Dahlander. 100, of Englewood, NJ, passed away June 8, 2003. Predeceased by her husband, Franklin Goodspeed Muzzy, daughter, Mary Jane Holden and granddaughter Susan Foster, she is survived by her daughters, Sally Foster and Susan Carneal, and son, John Muzzy, twelve gran
 PACKARD--Jarmila Daubek. 70, of New York City, died on June 21, 2003, of cancer. Daughter of the late Metropolitan Opera soprano Jarmila Novotna Daubek and Baron George A. Daubek. Beloved wife of the late Peter F. Packard and sister of George J. Daubek. Cherished mother of Jarmila T. Packar
 WARD--M. Janette (nee Heslin). 89, of Seagirt, and formerly of Hudson View Gardens, Manhattan, NY, on Saturday, June 21, 2003, at her residence. Dear wife of the late Stephen D. (d. November, 1986). Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Stephen T. and Maureen, Geoffrey H. and Patricia, and Ca
 BERSOHN--Virginia Straus, 76. Died at home on June 21. Devoted mother of Malcolm and David. Grandmother of Daniel and Rebecca. A graduate of the Brearley School and Vassar College with a Master's from Cornell, she worked as an educational tester and in volunteer services, continuing to help
 DeLUCA--Lorraine J., 76, of Lindenhurst, L.I., on June 23, 2003. Beloved wife of the late John J. DeLuca. Loving mother of Lyn Eisen, Judy Brochhausen, Joe DeLuca and Lorrie Pilc. Devoted grandmother of Stephanie, Allyson, Adriane, Justin and Joshua. Friends may visit today, 2-4:30 and 7-9:
 GREENBAUM -- Alice. The Aleph Society mourns the passing of Alice Greenbaum, mother of our esteemed Executive Director, Margy-Ruth Davis. May she and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
 HELDMAN--Gladys. I regret very much the passing of Gladys Heldman who so helped the cause of women's tennis in the 1950s. She, along with Billie Jean King, was responsible for women's tennis arriving and being recognized as an important international sports event. We all recognize the contr
 JOHNSON--Jennifer Worthington, 23, of Greenwich, CT. died on the morning of June 18th, in Jackson, WY. in a car accident. Beloved daughter of Worthington and Maria Johnson, Jennifer graduated from Greenwich Country Day School, Choate Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, CT and Colgate University w
 MEYERS--Diane. The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club Inc. record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Diane Meyers, on Sunday, June 22nd, 2003. We extend condolences to all of her family. Services will be held Tuesday, June 24, at 12 PM at Gutterman's Fu
 PACKARD--Jarmila Daubek. The Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourns the loss of Jarmila Packard, an esteemed member of our Board for 40 years. Jarmila served as First VicePresident, Vice - President, and Capital Assistant Treasurer and for five years was Chairman of the E
 SHARPE--Libby A., 81. Loving and devoted wife, mother, grandmother and mother-inlaw. A great woman, she created love, happiness and good humor for her family and friends. Her courage, leadership and strong sense of justice in fighting for equality and responsive government inspired all who 
 Anne Belle, a documentary filmmaker who specialized in portraits of New York City Ballet dancers, died last Wednesday at her daughter's home in Los Angeles. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan and Remsenberg, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said Catherine Tambini, a friend and coll
 Gladys Heldman, an instrumental figure in the formation of women's professional tennis, died Sunday at her home in Sante Fe, N.M. She was 81. The Sante Fe Police Department reported that Ms. Heldman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The police report said she had been experi
 AGOVINO--Vera. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and members of AHRC NYC convey their condolences to the family of Vera Agovino on the occasion of her passing. Her grace, good will, and commitment will always be remembered and appreciated by the Association. Our deepest concerns a
 BREWSTER -- Dorothy Ga tins. Age 89. Of New York City. Died peacefully on June 24, 2003 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Rice Brewster. Sister of Hope G. Simpson. Cherished mother of Ethel Stout Chapin, Hope Stout Connors and Walter R. Brewster, Jr. Loving grandmother of seve
 DALL--Rosalie A. (Lee). On June 23, 2003 at age 64. Mrs. Dall was a Dame of Malta, graduate of St. Vincent's Hospital Nursing School and of Marymount Manhattan College. Beloved wife of Robert, mother of Matthew and Christopher. Grandmother of Ivy Arielle and Martha Alice, sister of Thomas B
 FISH -- Kathryn Ruth, of Larchmont, NY, passed away on June 23, 2003 at age 78. She was the wife of the late Robert B. Fish and mother of the late Deborah Ruth Fish & is survived by her daughter Judith, and granddaughter Justine. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Emanuel of We
 FREED--Sara Ann (Weissman). On June 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Ira. Dear stepmom of Michael. Survived by four loving brothers and one sister and cherished by countless friends, colleagues and writers. She will be remembered at a memorial service on September 17, 2003 at a location to be anno
 HOPP--Lani Joy Salzberg, on June 25. Beloved wife of Robert, loving mother of Dana and Jenna, cherished daughter of Sylvia and the late David Salzberg, dear sister of Barry and Jane Salzberg. Services Friday, Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 N. Station Pl., Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flow
 KNOWLTON--Erica. Widow of Hugh Knowlton, loving and beloved stepmother of his four children, died peacefully on June 14, 2003. She will be greatly missed by her extended family and many friends. Gifts in her memory should be sent to The Central Park Conservancy, 14 East 60 St, New York, New
 LIPPINCOTT--Joan B., on June 20, 2003, of cancer at age 70. Widow of David, mother of Christopher, and grandmother of David S. Sister of Carol Ely and Betty Rank. Mrs. Lippincott was a graduate of Smith College ('51) and the Masters School ('47). She had been a member of the New York Junior
 ROSENBLATT--Beatrice, 85, of Oradell, NJ, on June 24, 2003. She was a Bookkeeper/ Secretary with her husband Louis at Rosenblatt & Thompson, Inc. in NYC for 55 years. Services Thursday, receiving at 9:30AM and service at 10:30 AM Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4, Paramus, New Jer
 RUPPEL--Philip Frederick. On June 25, 2003. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Dennin). Loving father of Elizabeth Anne Weinberg and her husband Peter and Christopher Dennin Ruppel. Wonderful and loving Poppy of Margit, Raymond and Emily Ann. Dear brother of Joseph. Visiting Friday, 2-4, 7-9 PM a
 SLOAN--Nancy Beth, 48, illustrator, freelance design consultant and lifetime Manhattan resident, died June 21st. Survived by her sister Carol Hurst, brother-in-law Larry Hurst and her nephews Kenneth and Kevin Sweet. Memorial service June 26th, St. Peters Church, Citicorp Building, 54th and
 AGOVINO--Vera. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and members of AHRC NYC convey their condolences to the family of Vera Agovino on the occasion of her passing. Her grace, good will, and commitment will always be remembered and appreciated by the Association. Our deepest concerns a
 BREWSTER -- Dorothy Ga tins. Age 89. Of New York City. Died peacefully on June 24, 2003 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Rice Brewster. Sister of Hope G. Simpson. Cherished mother of Ethel Stout Chapin, Hope Stout Connors and Walter R. Brewster, Jr. Loving grandmother of seve
 DALL--Rosalie A. (Lee). On June 23, 2003 at age 64. Mrs. Dall was a Dame of Malta, graduate of St. Vincent's Hospital Nursing School and of Marymount Manhattan College. Beloved wife of Robert, mother of Matthew and Christopher. Grandmother of Ivy Arielle and Martha Alice, sister of Thomas B
 FISH -- Kathryn Ruth, of Larchmont, NY, passed away on June 23, 2003 at age 78. She was the wife of the late Robert B. Fish and mother of the late Deborah Ruth Fish & is survived by her daughter Judith, and granddaughter Justine. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Emanuel of We
 FREED--Sara Ann (Weissman). On June 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Ira. Dear stepmom of Michael. Survived by four loving brothers and one sister and cherished by countless friends, colleagues and writers. She will be remembered at a memorial service on September 17, 2003 at a location to be anno
 HOPP--Lani Joy Salzberg, on June 25. Beloved wife of Robert, loving mother of Dana and Jenna, cherished daughter of Sylvia and the late David Salzberg, dear sister of Barry and Jane Salzberg. Services Friday, Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 N. Station Pl., Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flow
 LIPPINCOTT--Joan B., on June 20, 2003, of cancer at age 70. Widow of David, mother of Christopher, and grandmother of David S. Sister of Carol Ely and Betty Rank. Mrs. Lippincott was a graduate of Smith College ('51) and the Masters School ('47). She had been a member of the New York Junior
 MEYERS--Diane. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Diane Meyers. She will be sorely missed. >>AD#       
 RUPPEL--Philip Frederick. On June 25, 2003. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Dennin). Loving father of Elizabeth Anne Weinberg and her husband Peter and Christopher Dennin Ruppel. Wonderful and loving Poppy of Margit, Raymond and Emily Ann. Dear brother of Joseph. Visiting Friday, 2-4, 7-9 PM a
 SLOAN--Nancy Beth, 48, illustrator, freelance design consultant and lifetime Manhattan resident, died June 21st. Survived by her sister Carol Hurst, brother-in-law Larry Hurst and her nephews Kenneth and Kevin Sweet. Memorial service June 26th, St. Peters Church, Citicorp Building, 54th and
 JACOBSON--Frances Eagol. June 25, 2003. Long-time resident of Huntington, NY. She lived her life her way. Working beside and traveling the world with her best friend and husband, Harold, of 64 years. After a long and courageous battle she is finally at peace. Survived by her children Paul, 
 ROTH--Babette, widow of Henry B. Roth passed away in Montecito, CA May 22, 2003. Mrs. Roth was born in Brooklyn, NY April 17, 1913. She was the daughter of Fredrick and Rosa (Block) Langdon. She lived in NYC, Mamaroneck, NY, La Quinta and Los Angeles, CA. She then moved to Montecito, CA. Fo
 SHEN--Carol Lee. 56, of Brooklyn Heights, NY passed away on June 25, 2003 of cancer. We will remember Carol for her loving and caring nature, her grace and generosity of spirit, her unpretentious and patient approach to life, her delight in seeking and encouraging the best in those around h
 TAYLOR--Shelda, 97, on June 17, 2003. Teacher, Headmistress youth theatre and arts director over 73-year career. From a one room school on Saskatchewan plains to Settlement Houses (Toronto and NYC), Bronx YMHA, McGuffey School (Ohio), K-12 programs at Riverside Church, The (Trevor) Day Scho
 FREED -- Sara Ann. The Board of Directors, staff and members of the Caring Community note with much sadness the death of its beloved Board Member Sara Ann Freed. Our hearts go out to her husband, Ira Weissman, other members of her family, and her numerous friends and colleagues. We will mis
 NOSELSON--Judith (nee Lesnow), having just celebrated her 70th birthday. Beloved wife of Kal Noselson for 46 years. Adored and adoring mother, grandmother and mother-in-law of Betsy, Michael, Katie and Max Hockstein; Susie, Rob, Fannie and Moe Koltun; and the late Adam Noselson. Also surviv
 SANDBACK--Fred. International Print Center New York extends its deepest sympathy to Trustee and Founding Member Amy Baker Sandback and her family on the loss of Fred. Janice Oresman, Chairman Anne Coffin, Director >>AD#       
 Sara Ann Freed, an award-winning editor of crime fiction, died on Wednesday. She was 57 and lived in New York City. She had been under treatment for leukemia, Warner Books said in a statement announcing her death. She was editor in chief of Mysterious Press and senior editor
 COLLINS--Priscilla ''Patsy'' Bullitt. Vassar College is saddened by the death of Priscilla ''Patsy'' Bullitt Collins, Class of 1942, a stalwart supporter of her alma mater and of many, varied causes aimed at bettering our world. She was a woman of extraordinary generosity, wisdom and determ
 FEINGOLD -- Dr. Jessica. Longtime resident of New York City and former Executive Director of the Institute for Religious and Social Studies at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. She graduated Vassar in 1931, received an MD from Columbia University, and degrees, some honorary, from 
 FRIEND--Eleanor B. On midafternoon, June 23, 2003, Ellie Friend was taken from us. She was dearly loved. She didn't know a stranger. Ellie cared for everyone she knew, everyone she met and everyone she could help in whatever way was possible. She was a wonderful wife, a wonderful friend, a 
 GEYER--Jo Ann S. On June 27, 2003, a Rockville Centre resident for 42 years. Beloved wife of Philip. Loving mother of Philip (Leanna), John, Geralyn Marasco (Paul) and the late James (Cathy). Proud grandmother to Michele, Matthew, Philip, Laura, Rachel and Joseph. Dear sister of Thomas Step
 HOMANS--Marian Bennett. Born June 17, 1908, died May 27, 2003, at her home in Englewood, NJ, after a long illness. She died peacefully and with dignity. Beloved wife of the late Eugene V. Homans. Loving mother of Helen Homans Thompson of New York City. She is also survived by her sister Hel
 KOBLITZ -- Ellen. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the passing of their beloved member, Ellen Koblitz and offer our deepest sympathy to her husband, Michael; her children; and the entire Koblitz families. Alpine Country Club Mel Konner, Presiden
 KOLLMER -- Phoebe Lap ham. 87, of Pascoag, RI, died June 26, 2003. A resident of Pascoag for 22 years, she lived for 40 years in Manhasset, NY. Survivors include her beloved husband, William Henry Kollmer of Pascoag, RI, and devoted children: Leah Kollmer Puzzo of Leonia, NJ, Phyllis Kollme
 RYAN--Mary E. of Jersey City, formerly of Fort Lee died on June 22. She is survived by her son, Leslie L. Clark. >>AD#       
 SEIDMAN -- Amy. Former Assistant Federal Public Defender and former New York Legal Trial Attorney, died peacefully at her home in East Dover, VT, June 23, 2003. Memorials to be held in Vermont and New York in August. Contributions to either the Amy Seidman Memorial Tree or the NACDL Amy Sei
 SHEN--Carol Lee. 56, of Brooklyn Heights, NY, passed away on June 25, 2003, of cancer. We will remember Carol for her loving and caring nature, her grace and generosity of spirit, her unpretentious and patient approach to life, her delight in seeking and encouraging the best in those around
 Katharine Hepburn, the actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in the Fenwick section of Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 96 and also had
 ALBANESE--Veronica. The Weitz family is deeply saddened by the passing of Veronica Albanese, a courageous young woman of exceptional talent and devotion. We are thankful she touched our lives in such a beautiful way. Our sincerest condolences to her parents and all of her family. From Harve
 BRUSS--Annela. 93, died evening of June 26, 2003, at home. Born 1910, Warsaw, Poland. Lived through WWII in Warsaw and other Polish cities. Survived the German death machine onslaught in Poland. Defender of her faith, a fighter, close to God. Survived by her son Bernard Bruss. Burial at Bet
 FORNATARO--Betty Seeley. 73, of Oakhurst NJ, died Friday, June 27 at her home. She was a loving wife, mother and grandmother. Betty was a member of the local election board in Oakhurst for many years, and an active participant in the Democratic Party. She was a member of the First Reformed 
 HOMANS--Marian Bennett. Born June 17, 1908, died May 27, 2003, at her home in Englewood, NJ, after a long illness. She died peacefully and with dignity. Beloved wife of the late Eugene V. Homans. Loving mother of Helen Homans Thompson of New York City. She is also survived by her sister Hel
 SAYPOL--Cynthia Otis. 72, on June 28, 2003. Adored life partner of Ed Krones. Beloved mother of Cathy Saypol and Amy Tompkins, and mother-in-law of P. F. Bentley and Richard Tompkins. Loving friend of Ed's children, Leah Becker and Mark Krones. Wonderful ''Grammie'' to Jimmy Tompkins and Le
 SISKIN--Miriam. Beloved wife of Myron. Loving mother of Andrew and Linda, motherin-law of Philip Spector. Cherished grandmother of Debra, Rachel and Heather. She will be sorely missed by all. Services were held at Gutterman's, Inc., 175 Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centre, LI, NY. >>AD#       
