 LANGER--Dorothy, on March 25, at age 78. Survived by her sister Ethel Yeager and Dr. John S. Langer and her nephew Philip Burns. Interment private.       
 FAINE--Ruth C. 90, died peacefully on April 1 in Israel. Wife of the late Hy Faine, sister of Roy Godes, mother of Robin Faine and the late Judy Kurz Gold, devoted grandmother and great grandmother. She will be missed and remembered.       
 FENSTER--Lilian Owen, 75, of New York, passed away peacefully at her home; born in London, England. Beloved wife of the late Milton; loving mother Randese Owen Leoni and Barbara Owen Smithen; mother-in-law of Serge Leoni and Charles Smithen; dear grandmother of Oliver and Hugh Leoni; step-g
 KRAMON -- Hermine. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted founding member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 STOLMAN--Dr. Cynthia Jean, 63, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark, NJ died at her home in Short Hills, NJ on April 1, 2005. She received a BA from Brooklyn College in 1964, a M. Ed. in 1975 and a Ph.D in 1981 from SUNY Buffa
 ESTERSOHN -- Betty Hum bert. Painter, educator, and video producer, passed away on Tuesday, March 29th, in Stamford, CT. Born in New York City on December 1st, 1930, she attended Hunter Elementary and High School, Tyler School of Fine Arts at Temple University, and Columbia University. She 
 FENSTER--Lilian Owen, 75, of New York, passed away peacefully at her home; born in London, England. Beloved wife of the late Milton; loving mother Randese Owen Leoni and Barbara Owen Smithen; mother-in-law of Serge Leoni and Charles Smithen; dear grandmother of Oliver and Hugh Leoni; step-g
 GROSS--Anna, 100, of Old Greenwich, CT, peacefully March 30. Immigrant from Austria, self-made woman, founder of the Clam Box Restaurants in CT. Survived by her three children, ten grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren and one great greatgrandchild. A role model for us all, we will miss her
 KRAMON--Hermine Messinger. April 1, 2005, at 83. Wife of the late Roy. Mother of Grant (and Penny), Clifford (and Sami), Glenn (and Alison), Gordon (and Heidi). Grandmother of Douglas (and Michelle), Joshua (and Susan), Caitlin. Great-grandmother of Maya. An intelligent, elegant, youthful, 
 MAZZOLA--Patricia, 63, died at her home in Kent, CT. on Wednesday, March 23, 2005. Pat received a BSN from Cornell University in 1964 & a MBA from Columbia University in 1984. She had a 31 year career in nursing at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She served as Chairman of the Depart
 PORTE -- Renee Schlissel, died in her new and beloved home, Udaipur, India, at 77 years, remembered in theater and folk art communities, mourned by relatives Steve, Ariel, Trina, Norma, Katy, Lauren, and others; she will be missed.       
 REU--Sophie Hohn, age 84. A Pioneer in Women of Radio and Television, passed awayMarch 7, 2005 at home in Clinton, CT from complications of cancer. In the sixties Sophie owned Movies USA which merged with Industrial Movies in 1966 to form Sterling Movies USA. Sophie Reu and Charles Dolan we
 ROSENGARTEN--Helen, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Department of Psychiatry mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend Helen Rosengarten, M.D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry. She was a skilled researcher and clinician, and distinguished author. We extend our deepest sympathy
 SCHRATWIESER--Marge. Suddenly on March 15, 2005 in San Diego, CA, after enjoying 85 years of life. Marge is survived by six of her seven children, Bob, Barbara, Beth, Bill, Susan and Mary Jean and eight grandchildren, Jason, Jeremy, Justin, Ashley, Jennifer, Brooke, Kyle and Gavin and five 
 CUMMINGS--Sonya (nee Fagin). April 2, 2005, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Lewis Cummings. Dear sister of Theodore Fagin. Loving aunt of Beth Sommer. Graveside services Monday, 2 pm, at Mt. Moriah, Fairview, NJ. Contributions in her memory may be made to East End Temple, 245 Eas
 EICHENHOLTZ--Norma M. Age 85, died on April 1, 2005. She is survived by her husband, Leonard L. Eichenholtz, children Joel and Susan Eichenholtz, Marc and Beth Eichenholtz, and grandchildren Seth, Eric and Eve.       
 GUREASKO--Esther Freden. 97, on March 5, 2005 in Boynton Beach, Fla. She lived a rich and varied life: as wife for over 50 years of her childhood sweetheart, Edward Martin, a NYC high school teacher and Lieutenant Colonial, Army Air Force WWII, who succumbed to Alzheimer's disease, and as d
 HAMILTON -- Madeline Thacher. 89, died in Boston, MA, on April 1, 2005. Born in Minneapolis, MN, brought up in Hackensack, NJ, she raised her family in Ramsey and Englewood, NJ. She moved to Woodstock, VT, where she and business partner Elsa Ross established a real estate and decorating bus
 O'DONNELL -- Lillian. On April 2nd, 2005. Beloved wife of the late J. Leonard O'Donnell. Her career started in the theater and evolved into being an international syndicated mystery writer. A lifetime member of the West Side Tennis Club for 50 years, a member of the 7th Regiment Tennis Club
 OSSER--Edna (nee Meisel). On April 2, 2005, age 85. Service on Tuesday, 12 noon, at the Zion Memorial Chapel, 785 East Boston Post Road, Mamaroneck, NY. Interment at Sharon Gardens. OSSER--Edna. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its e
 STEINER--Beatrice A. At home, on March 26, 2005. Loving daughter of the late Ludmilla (Lizzie) and Max Steiner. Adoring sister of the late Aaron B. Steiner. Bea was an independent, working woman before her time. Services will be Thursday, 11 am, at Union Fields Cemetery, Queens, NY.        
 WOLFE--Irma. On April 2, 2005. Beloved wife of Irwin. Devoted mother of Barbara, Frann and Janet. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan and David. Loving sister of Vivian and Eugene. Motherin-law of Michael and Michael. We will miss her. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, from Schwartz Bros-Jeffer, Que
 BURTON--Deena Elise, PhD, age 56. Our wonderful Deena lost the struggle with her vicious Cancer and died Sunday, April 3. Deena received her BA from the Univ. of Wisconsin, an MA in Arts Administration from Columbia and subsequently an MA and PhD in Perfomance Art from NYU. She taught theat
 GLICKSMAN -- Lettie (nee Berger), November 23, 1919March 26, 2005. Parents Jack and Celia Berger and sisters Ruth Haber and Annette Gerson. The family was active in the early union and socialist movements and in Workmen's Circle. Lettie was married for 60 years to her great love Jack Glicks
 ROBBINS--Joan. Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President       
 TANNENBERG--Renee. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Renee Tannenberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President       
 WEITZMAN--Yaffa. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. La Paloma. C. Jeremy and Jerrol       
 Elizabeth Crow, a magazine editor, writer and executive who revitalized Parents magazine, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, her son, Samuel Crow, said. A
 Moura Lympany, the colorful and elegant British concert pianist whose career lasted more than 65 years, died on March 28 in Menton, France. She was 88. Her death was confirmed by her former French managers, Bureau de Concerts de Valmalete. Ms. Lympany avoided specialization,
 ASSAEL--Anna. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 BRESSLER--Evelyn, April 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Harold. Cherished mother of Ricki and Sandy Herzfeld, Ilene Bressler, and Alan and Rossanna Bressler. Loving grandmother of Leah, Sam, Jeremy, Matthew, Julia, Lyn and Zoe. Adoring greatgrandmother of Max. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM, at ''The
 FRIEDMANN--Sandor. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Anna Freilich. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 GROSS--Michael. The children and families of Ohel, the Members of the Board, and the Administration mourn the passing of the beloved father of Rachelle Friedman, a dear friend of Ohel, who along with her husband Joseph, play a vital role in caring for thousands of children and families. We 
 NUTKU--Gail Kohns. On April 2, 2005. Born in NYC August 3, 1933. Survived by her three children, Rana, Kerim, and Suzan; five grandchildren, Sophie, Annie, Mimi, Jalia, and Imara; brother, Lee; sister, Ann; three nephews, Clyde, Peter, and Daniel; and niece, Sarah. Daughter of the late Paul
 OSSER--Edna. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Edna Osser. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Abe Osser and to their son Jonathan Osser. Allen J. Ross, President       
 STEED--Jeaneatta. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Radiology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Jeaneatta Steed, a beloved member of the radiology staff for over 22 years. To her fa
 BAER--Edith. Loving wife of the late Ernst, died on April 5, having lived 95 remarkably full years. She is survived by her adoring daughters, Lillian Baer Sharoff and Lore Baer Azaria, their husbands, four grandchildren, and four great grandchildren. Funeral services today 12:30PM at Schwar
 BERNSTEIN--Evelyn Stieber. On April 6, 2005, in Florida. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the loss of our beloved mother, our Sephardi Queen. She was the adored wife of the late Otto Stieber and Sol Bernstein. Her loving children, Frances (Donald Putnoi), Elaine Cory and Janice Rou
 BRESSLER--Evelyn, April 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Harold. Cherished mother of Ricki and Sandy Herzfeld, Ilene Bressler, and Alan and Rossanna Bressler. Loving grandmother of Leah, Sam, Jeremy, Matthew, Julia, Lyn and Zoe. Adoring greatgrandmother of Max. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM, at ''The
 CRAFT--Joy. Died peacefully of natural causes at her Manhattan home on April 2, 2005. Survived by her brother Arnold, sister-in-law Atsuko, nieces Rebecca and Lucille, cousins Lorraine, Pam, Alison and Benita and many loving friends and family around the planet. No-one was ever more appropr
 CROW--Elizabeth. The Board of Directors and staff of Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports magazine mourn the passing of a brilliant, energetic and inspiring colleague who served as our Editorial Director and Vice President for the past 13 months. After serving in numerous leadersh
 FREEMAN--Susan Lee of Florida and formerly of Rye Brook, NY. Died April 5, 2005 at age 59. Born August 22, 1945 in the Bronx to Benjamin and Frances (Preizer) Phau. Survived by her daughter Alex Freeman Osz (husband Charly), her mother Frances Phau and brother Donald Phau. Predeceased by he
 KALMANASH -- Paula of Stamford, CT and formerly of Larchmont, NY. Died April 6, 2005 at age 89. Born October 27, 1915 to Benjamin and Bertha (Grenthal) Levine. Paula was a woman of great strength, who never made the material things in life important, and felt the strongest of callings for t
 LEWIS--Desiree. April 6. Beloved wife of the late Mortimer B. Lewis. Loving mother of Merry Lewis and Jane Lewis-Nichols and her husband Ned. Fondly remembered by nieces, nephews, cousins and friends for her great wit, charm and generosity. Graveside service Friday, April 8, 1 PM at Mount Z
 LYMPANY -- Moura. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of its beloved friend, the celebrated English pianist Dame Moura Lympany, on March 28 in Menton, France at the age of 88. Dame Moura was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 56 years. A native of
 SIMPSON -- Ethel. Beloved wife of Murray and mother of Anne, David, Mindy and Jonathan and grandchildren Jason, Noah, Jared and Carl. She gave of herself fully to help others in their time of need. We miss her greatly.       
 TRINCHITELLA -- Anne V. Died April 6 at home with her family at her side. Survived by her husband Romeo, son Anthony, daughter Marianne, niece Antoinette, nephews Louis and Bobby. Services to be held at All Faith Chapel in Deerfield Beach, FL. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made i
 Dale Messick, a pioneering newspaper cartoonist who fought her way to the top of a man's profession by creating Brenda Starr, the glamorous red-haired journalist who fought her way to the top of a man's profession, died on Tuesday in Sonoma County, Calif. She was 98. She died after 
 CROW--Elizabeth. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the March of Dimes mourn the death of our esteemed longtime volunteer Elizabeth Crow. Elizabeth served on the March of Dimes National Communications Advisory Council for 20 years, many of them as chair, helping to educate journ
 FAIN--Janel S. Passed away on April 7, 2005, after a yearlong battle with lung cancer. Ms. Fain is survived by her husband, Joseph H. Spiegel, numerous nieces, nephews and the many people, both young and old, that she mentored, loved and supported, including thirteen foreign exchange studen
 LEWIS--Desiree. April 6. Beloved wife of the late Mortimer B. Lewis. Loving mother of Merry Lewis and Jane Lewis-Nichols and her husband Ned. Fondly remembered by nieces, nephews, cousins and friends for her great wit, charm and generosity. Graveside service Friday, April 8, 1 PM at Mount Z
 LYMPANY -- Moura. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of its beloved friend, the celebrated English pianist Dame Moura Lympany, on March 28 in Menton, France at the age of 88. Dame Moura was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 56 years. A native of
 MALBIN KAMINSKY--Karen. At age 50 of complications resulting from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Beloved wife, daughter, sister and stepmother. Karen spent a distinguished career as a nurse/ nurse manager at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital and after earning her MBA continued at MSKCC as a 
 STIEBER BERNSTEIN--Evelyn. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem express profound sadness over the passing of our treasured friend, Evelyn Stieber Bernstein. A Benefactor of The Hebrew University and recipient of an honorary fellowship, 
 WELICHANSKY -- Kay of Bronx, NY on April 7th, 2005. Born June 23rd, 1911 to Harry and Yetta (Kleinman) Lerner. Beloved mother of Jonathan Sternberg; dear mother-in-law of Janice Siglin; loving grandmother of Benjamin. Cherished sister of Ada Schaiewitz and Milton Lerner. She will be greatly
 Geraldine Stutz, who transformed Henri Bendel from a carriage trade retailer in decline into a chic emporium of designer brands in the 1960's, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 80. Her death came after a long illness, said her stepdaughter, Emma Turner. Ms. Stu
 BEN-DOV--Rivka. ''Savtah'' the matriarch of the Ben-Dov and Spanier clans, born in Safed, Israel on February 20, 1915, daughter of Baruch Barzel, the ''Boyaner Rebbe'' and Chava, passed away on April 7, 2005. Her children Zohar, Ktziah and Chana, her son-inlaw Sidney and her grandchildren N
 CHESNER--Rachel. Born December 20, 1910, died April 7, 2005. Her children Avi, Carmela and Bilha and her grandchildren Arbel, Eldan, Lirone, David, Jonathan, Daniella, Jordana and Ariel and great grandchildren are mourning her loss. She devoted her life to her family and she will be missed 
 LYMPANY -- Moura. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sadness the passing of its beloved friend, the celebrated English pianist Dame Moura Lympany, on March 28 in Menton, France at the age of 88. Dame Moura was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 56 years. A native of
 SCHWARTZ--Lena. Passed away quietly at her home on April 8, 2005. Age 94. Survived by her daughter, Joan Shore and her loving family.       
 STUTZ-GIBBS--Geraldine. Died on April 8, 2005, peacefully at her home.       
 Marilyn Levine, a prominent ceramic sculptor known for deceptively realistic renditions of leather goods, died on April 2 at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 69. The cause was mucosal melanoma, said John Allen, her partner of 25 years. Ms. Levine was born Marilyn Hayes in
 BEN-DOV--Rivka. ''Savtah'' the matriarch of the Ben-Dov and Spanier clans, born in Safed, Israel on February 20, 1915, daughter of Baruch Barzel, the ''Boyaner Rebbe'' and Chava, passed away on April 7, 2005. Her children Zohar, Ktziah and Chana, her son-inlaw Sidney and her grandchildren N
 CROW--Elizabeth. The Board of Directors and staff of the Alan Guttmacher Institute mourn the passing of our trustee and friend. We are grateful for the time and talent she gave promoting sexual and reproductivehealth and rights and improving the lives of people around the world. She will be
 ELY--Patricia (nee Brogan). Of Mclean, VA, formerly of Ridgewood and Spring Lake, NJ, died April 7, 2005, after a long illness. Adored daughter of the late Thomas J. and Florence Kerns Brogan. Beloved wife of the late Joseph L. Ely, who predeceased her in 1977, and devoted sister of the lat
 FARBER--Beatrice. On April 9, 2005. Wife of the late Sol. Mother of Arlene and her husband Steve, Robert and his wife Marilyn, Sherry and her husband Michael. Grandmother of Simone, Peter, Bradley, Adam, David, Jamie and Jennifer. Great-grandmother of Jacob, Harry, Eliana and Samson. ''A wo
 GOLDSMITH--Elsa M. World renowned Artist of ''Joan of Arc'' and ''Walking Happy'' peacefully passed away April 8, 2005. Beloved mother of Cris and Jo Ann Goldsmith. Her stories and art contributions will be greatly missed. Services Sunday, April 10, 3PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55
 GREENE--Jeanne B. On April 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Adored and cherished mother of Nancy. Dearly loved sister of Natalie. Devoted aunt, cherished friend. She leaves a legacy of love. Her life is a blessing to all who knew her. Contributions in her memory may be made to a chari
 LEWIS--Desiree. April 6. Beloved wife of the late Mortimer B. Lewis. Loving mother of Merry Lewis and Jane Lewis-Nichols and her husband Ned. Fondly remembered by nieces, nephews, cousins and friends for her great wit, charm and generosity. Services were held on Friday, April 8. In lieu of 
 MEYER--Rita. April 2, 2005. Wife of the late Dr. Donald C. Meyer. Formerly of Westchester county, she died in Sarasota, FL. She is survived by a son Dr. Kenneth Meyer, a daughter and son-in-law, Susan and James Millner, and two grandchildren, Emily and Gordon Millner.       
 REDDICK -- Jeanne. (stage name Jeanne Shepherd) died on her 84th birthday, March 16, 2005. Born in Verona, NJ, she graduated Bucknell College in 1943, and commenced her acting career on tour in ''My Sister Eileen''. Two Moss Hart productions followed, along with a lifetime friendship with h
 RUSKIN--John C. 75, of Brookfield, CT. April 8, 2005. New York City native. Son of the late Benjamin and Frances (nee Deutch) Ruskin. Former owner of Judy's Brookside Card & Party Shop of Bridgeport, CT. Survived by a daughter Jill Sohon & her husband Thomas, & their children, Daniel, Kathe
 SCHULMAN--Gloria P. My lovely and loving wife died on April 9. During the course of our almost 50 year marriage, she gave me the space to become a man. Predeceased by son Jeffrey A. Schulman, M.D., she is survived by husband, Robert, most devoted daughter, Dana (son-in-law Richard), and her
 SCHWARTZ--Lena. Passed away quietly at her home on April 8, 2005. Age 94. Survived by her daughter, Joan Shore and her loving family.       
 STUTZ -- Geraldine. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Geraldine Stutz. As a devoted Trustee, whose passion for the theatre inspired us all, she brought vision, style and flair to TDF for over 20 year
 Charlotte Kempner Beyers, a documentary filmmaker whose works were among the first to introduce students to the realities of AIDS, died on March 10 at her home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 73. The cause was complications of lymphoma, her family said. The producer and writer 
 COTTER -- Mary Eileen. Passed away peacefully April 7, 2005. She is survived by her loving family. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 9 am, at Holy Family Chapel, 1339 York Avenue, NYC.       
 FRANKLIN--Suzanne Considine. 73, died Friday, April 8, 2005. She was employed for 35 years in the art department of Fortune Magazine and then as an assistant picture editor for Business Week, Time and Money magazines. Survived by husband Bill Franklin, son Jim, daughters Anne and Margo Cons
 LURIA--Gladys (nee Claman). Consummate New Yorker, widow of Alvord N. Luria, died peacefully in her sleep, Saturday, April 9th, 2005, shortly after her 96th birthday. She is survived by her beloved daughter Joan L. Fisher and grandchildren Carl T. Fisher, Amy Luria Nissenbaum, Robert Luria 
 NOLAN--Maria P. On April 7, 2005, at age 45. Beloved wife of Jack. Loving daughter of George and Joy Panagakos. Dear sister of Diane Steiner. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm. Funeral service at Holy Trinity Greek Cathedral, 319 E. 74 
 STUTZ -- Geraldine. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Geraldine Stutz. As a devoted Trustee, whose passion for the theatre inspired us all, she brought vision, style and flair to TDF for over 20 year
 VUCKER--Florence Katz, age 88, died peacefully in Vahalla, NY, April 9th, predeceased by her husband Joseph M. Vucker, attorney in White Plains. Born in New York in 1916 to Lillian Batt and Ernest Katz. She is survived by her children, Susan Lieberman Landau (Thomas Reiner), and Barry and J
 YOUNG--Susan Allan Quinn. She was a beloved mother, daughter, sister, 15 years, always loved, always missed. The Adam Young Famil       
 Andrea Dworkin, the feminist writer and antipornography campaigner whose work was a lightning rod for the debate on pornography and censorship that raged through the United States in the 1980's, died on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 58. Ms. Dworkin died in her sleep, s
 BEILMAN -- Mary Louise. Board Chairman of The Princeton Packet Inc., publisher of community newspapers in NJ and PA, she died April 10 in Vero Beach, FL, at 93. She was the widow of Bernard Kilgore, one-time Board Chairman of Dow Jones & Co. She later married Robert D. Beilman, who survives
 HALLENBECK--Eleanor C., of Sarasota, FL, and South Dartmouth, MA., died April 10th 2005, at the age of 72. The great, great granddaughter of Corning Glass Works founder Amory Houghton, Mrs. Hallenbeck was born in Corning, NY in 1932 to Eleanor Houghton Cole and Glen Walker Cole, a former Pr
 LURIA--Gladys. The Board and Staff of the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center offer our deepest condolences to the family of Gladys Luria, our longtime most esteemed Board Member. Gladys had deep compassion for all people and was always concerned about those less fortunate, struggling with 
 NOLAN--Maria P. We mourn the loss of Maria, who left us too soon. Her friendship, grace, kindness and collegiality were the truest reflections of her beautiful spirit. May God keep her safe. Alumnae, Merrill Lynch Municipal Markets Division NOLAN--Maria. She was a great friend of Vi
 PAINTER--Mary, for over twenty years, assistant to William Shawn, the second editor-in-chief of the New Yorker magazine, died on April 7, 2005 in New York City. Born in Columbus, MS on May 29, 1917, Miss Painter moved to NY after WWII. She joined the staff of the New Yorker in the early 195
 PLOTKIN--Gerald. On April 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Frances, devoted father of Carol, Beth and her husband James Mahaney, and loving grandfather of Eve and Jake.       
 STUTZ -- Geraldine. The Board of Directors and management of Jones Apparel Group, Inc. are saddened by the loss of Geraldine Stutz, who served with distinction on our Board of Directors since 1991. Gerry Stutz was a major force in the fashion world for decades, and her presence, perspective
 WELLING--Kathryn T. Our beloved angel Kate has joined the angels in Heaven much too soon. Having just celebrated her 21st birthday on March 30, she was excited and enthusiastic about life in general, but particularly about her impending semester abroad in Luxembourg. She embodied the concep
 Dr. Jeanne Petrek, a cancer researcher known for her investigations into the aftermath of breast cancer surgery, especially its impact on fertility, was killed in an accident in Manhattan on Monday. She was 57 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Dr. Petrek died in surgery, hours after bei
 BLAUNER--Bette. The Board of Directors and staff of Children of Bellevue, Inc. mourn the death of our esteemed Vice President and friend. A dedicated, deliberate and devoted champion of children's programs, she always understood consideration and prospective. Through her leadership, Childre
 GOLDBERG--Stacy. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family, especially her husband, Alan, and daughter, Jocelyn. May her memory be for blessing, and may her family be comforted amidst the mou
 LA FARGE--Anne (Woolsey), 94, wife of the late Edward Hooper La Farge of Killingworth, CT, died peacefully at the Weiss Hospice Unit at the Middlesex Memorial Hospital on April 5, 2005. Daughter of the late Theodore Salisbury and Ruby Pickett Woolsey of New Haven, CT, she was born in Albuqu
 PETREK -- Jeanne. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the tragic death of Jeanne A. Petrek. Dr. Petrek, a breast surgeon at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, was Director of the Surgical Program at the Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center. Dr. Pe
 SADLER -- Nancy. Beloved wife of Melvin. Devoted mother of Shelley and mother-in-law of Lee Kenney. Loving sister of Jack Leibof. Services Wednesday 11am at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. She will be forever in our hearts.       
 SKINNER--Margo. The Manhattan Theatre Club is shocked and saddened by the passing of Margo Skinner. Skinner appeared in numerous productions at MTC and other theatres around the country. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to all her family and many friends. Lynne Meadow, Artistic Director B
 STANLEY--Harriet Murdock. Died at the age of 100 on April 9, 2005, at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, New Jersey. She was the widow of Cyril S. Stanley, former General Counsel of Rockefeller Center Corporation. She is survived by her daughter, Judith S. Burks of Princeton, N.J. and a son, James S
 WELLING--Kathryn T. Our beloved angel Kate has joined the angels in Heaven much too soon. Having just celebrated her 21st birthday on March 30, she was excited and enthusiastic about life in general, but particularly about her impending semester abroad in Luxembourg. She embodied the concep
 BELL--Pearl (Levin), 96, died April 12, 2005, in Boulder, Colorado. Mother of Alan and Jackie, wife of the late Harry Bell (nee Belitsky), grandmother of Benny and Andy, ''mother-in-law'' to David Ziff, and mother-in-law to Phil Swan. An avid piano player, who continued to bang on the eight
 COOPER--Claire. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai on Friday, April 15 at 10:00 AM. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 ETTUS--Martha. Age 97, of Brooklyn, NY. On April 12, 2005. Beloved mother of Frank, mother-in-law of Sandra, grandmother of Pamela, Samantha, and Timothy, great-grandmother of Jaxon, and best friend to Lola. Martha's loved ones were blessed with her unfailingly positive spirit, humor, and c
 PETREK--Jeanne. On behalf of all the many loving and grateful patients of Dr. Jeanne Petrek, we would like to express our gratitude to her and our sympathy to her mother, Emily Petrek, her loving husband, Jeffrey Duban, and her two children, Jean and Paul. Helaine Barnett Elaine Wolfensohn 
 SCHWARTZBURG -- Simha (nee Valero), 88, of San Juan, PR, originally of Jerusalem. Died April 12. Beloved wife of the late Alexander. Survived by son Ori, daughter-in-law Deborah, grandchildren Alexander and Rosa. She enjoyed life to its fullest and will be sorely missed. Services on Friday,
 SPRITZ--Marilyn, on April 12, 2005. Psychiatrist and Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry at Cornell Weill School of Medicine. Author of ''Majolica: A Complete History and Illustrated Survey.'' Co-founder of the Majolica International Society. Beloved wife of Norton Spritz, MDJD, devot
 TOPCHIK -- Theresa (nee Becker). On April 13, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Loving mother of Brondi, Nina and Steven. Cherished grandmother of Carolyn, Jennifer, Brad, Marney, Justine and Jon, and great grandmother of Charlotte, Melanie and Monika; loving sister of Martin Becker. T
 WELLING--Kathryn T. Our beloved angel Kate has joined the angels in Heaven much too soon. Having just celebrated her 21st birthday on March 30, she was excited and enthusiastic about life in general, but particularly about her impending semester abroad in Luxembourg. She embodied the concep
 Kay Gardella, a television critic and columnist for The Daily News who worked at that paper for nearly 60 years, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 82. The News, reporting her death, said she had been ill with cancer. Ms. Gardella was born in B
 IAKOVOS--Archbishop. Marina Tchomlekdjoglou-Embirikos and her daughters Carminne and Cristina Dodero with deepest sorrow for the loss of our spiritual father. Buenos Aires, Argentina.       
 KAHN--Martha. A much loved aunt of Jeffrey, Andrew, Heather and Heller Goldberg lost her battle with breast cancer Wednesday evening. She is also survived by her two great-nieces and great-nephew Reede, Shelby, and Theodore Goldberg; and her sister-in-law Mindy Kahn Goldberg. We love her an
 KARMASON -- Marilyn G., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Marilyn G. Karmason, a psychiatrist at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center and Weill Medical College of Cornell University, where she spent her entire medical care
 LEWISOHN--Florence Davis. October 13, 1911-April 12, 2005. Journalist and historian. In the 1930's when female journalists were few and far between she worked on The Oregonian, San Francisco Chronicle and CBS; during WWII she was the OWI's Far East editor. Florence went on to chronicle the 
 LLOYD--Marion Musser. The President and Board of Trustees of Vassar College note with deepest sorrow the passing of Marion Musser Lloyd, Class of 1932, a former trustee of the College, and an alumna whose lifelong devotion and service to Vassar has engendered the greatest of admiration and 
 MURPHY--Marion L., 90, died Wednesday in NYC. A resident of Summit, NJ, she was the widow of Joseph F. Murphy, Esq., an insurance executive who was New Jersey Insurance Commissioner. In the early 1940's Mrs. Murphy was private secretary to selfhelp author Dale Carnegie, author of ''How to W
 PETREK--Jeanne. The Board of Directors and staff of the Young Survival Coalition mourn the loss of our friend, colleague and Medical Advisory Board member, a brilliant surgeon and tireless advocate for the needs of young women affected by breast cancer. We extend our deepest sympathies to h
 ROSUCK--Sandra. Beloved mother, mother - in - law, grandmother, wife, teacher, friend. She blessed us with warmth, humor and charm. She was a gift to us all. Her like will not be seen again.       
 ROTHSTEIN--Mildred (nee Goldsman). Died on April 14. Beloved wife of the late Harold, wonderful mother of Alan (Claire Herzberg) and Roberta (Robert Orwin). Grandmother of Jeremy, Matthew, Ethan and Harper. Devoted aunt of Robert (Wendy) and Howard (Ilene). Great-aunt of Melissa, Paul, Rona
 SPRITZ--Marilyn Karmason, our inspired leader and warm friend. As President she led our class with loyalty and distinction. Class of 1949 Barnard College       
 TOPCHIK -- Theresa (nee Becker). On April 13, 2005, in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Loving mother of Brondi, Nina and Steven. Cherished grandmother of Carolyn, Jennifer, Brad, Marney, Justine and Jon, and great grandmother of Charlotte, Melanie and Monika; loving sister o
 VANDERBILT--Gertrude C. Died on April 13, 2005 at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, CT at the age of 86. She was a longtime resident of NYC and Southport, CT. She is survived by her son, Frederick B. Vanderbilt, Jr., and her daughterin-law, Kathy Vanderbilt of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, and her gr
 WELLING--Kathryn T. Our beloved angel Kate has joined the angels in Heaven much too soon. Having just celebrated her 21st birthday on March 30, she was excited and enthusiastic about life in general, but particularly about her impending semester abroad in Luxembourg. She embodied the concep
 WOODS--Ann. Dr. Joseph Cunningham and the entire Department of Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center mourn the loss of our dear friend. We send our love and condolences to the entire family, in particular, her loyal husband and our dear friend Fred Friedman. Joseph N. Cunningham, MD SVP and 
 Ida Libby Dengrove, a New York courtroom artist who visualized the moods and faces of some notorious trials for the television audience, died on Wednesday while on a family visit to Los Angeles. She was 86 and lived in Ocean Township, N.J. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's 
 FRENKEL--Claudia. 96, died April 14, 2005. Wife of the late Lester and beloved mother of the late Charles and Enid. She is survived by three grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. Former President of the Women's Auxiliary at The Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital. Services at Frank E
 GEANY--Helen (Dolan). Born Offaly, Ireland, April 18, 1903, died April 11, 2005. Sent to America as child on SS Mauritania 12 days after the sinking of the Titanic. Because of failed arrangements, spent a short time in a New York orphanage until adopted by her beloved aunt, Elizabeth O'Shea
 Ellen Lentz, who reported from Berlin for The New York Times at the height of the cold war, died on April 10 at a hospital in Berlin. She was 88. The cause was heart failure, her son, Dr. Ulrich Lentz-Bartens, said. She was born in Berlin on Aug. 14, 1916, to a German father
 Faith McNulty, a New Yorker staff writer who wrote many books about animals and country life for adults and children, died last Sunday at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 86. The cause was complications of a stroke, her sister, Elisabeth Keiffer, said. In 1980, Ms. McNulty notabl
 ADLER--Bertha. On April 9, 2005. A 1928 graduate of Hunter College, she was an NYC elementary school teacher and an active teachers union member for more than 30 years. Wife of the late Harry Adler. Mother of Ann Greenberg and the late Joel Adler. Mother - in - law of Frank Greenberg. Grand
 GLUCK--Claire. Died April 11. Friends, colleagues, children whose lives she touched will miss her. The Winokurs and Winstons       
 HICKMAN--Minnie Cassatt. There is no adequate way to honor Minnie Cassatt Hickman, 73, who passed peacefully on April 10, 2005. She lives on through her three daughters, Mimi, Mary, and Rosie; her six grandchildren; and the many students she mentored in her years teaching at The Lenox Schoo
 KUONY--Madame Liane C. Of Fond du Lac, WI, passed away on Thursday, April 7, 2005. Madame Kuony was the proprietor of the Postilion Restaurant, School of Culinary Arts and Studio of Interior Design. She was renowned for her unwavering high standards, sense of style, and her ever present hat
 MACKLIN--Patricia Joy. On April 15, 2005, after a short illness. Loving wife of Bill. Cherished daughter of James and Viola McDermott. Beloved sister of James McDermott and Marion Ward. Dear daughter-in-law of Elinore and William Macklin. Patricia dedicated 40 years of service to Rockefelle
 MAIMONE--Renata. June 11, 1917-April 13, 2005. Renata Maimone of Bayville passed away in the company of her loving family. The funeral is private, from the Oyster Bay Funeral home. A memorial celebration will be held at a later date. Donations may be sent to Ridotto, 4 Rolling Hills Dr, Hun
 MARKAY--Dorothy Fish. On April 13, 2005, in Schenectady, NY. Wife of the late Charles H. Markay. Beloved mother of Jesse B. Markay of Albuquerque, NM, and the late David K. Markay and daughterin-law Barbara Scott Markay of Santa Monica, CA. Graduate of Skidmore College, Class of 1940. Retir
 MONTGOMERY -- Martha Wheeler (Barker). Age 91, in her sleep on April 5, in Fort Collins, CO. She was born April 21, 1913, daughter of Dr. John Martin Wheeler, renowned ophthalmologist, surgeon and professor of NYC, and Julia Smith Wheeler.       
 MORGAN -- Claudia B. A beautiful woman who demonstrated to all the meaning of dignity and courage. Our love to her remarkable family whom we join in grieving our devastating loss. Bob and Marsha Dennis       
 PETREK--Dr. Jeanne. Her many devoted and grateful patients mourn her loss and grieve for her family and colleagues as well. She was a gift to us all. The Ledogar Family       
 SEN--Kamala. Died peacefully on April 10, 2005 in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 90. The beloved wife of Sudhir Sen, she is survived by three children, Shankar Sen, Sheila Jasanoff, Shyamoli Pyne and four grandchildren. Her life was dedicated to charity and shs became a prominent leader at the United
 The Rev. Phyllis Taylor Wofford, who in 1959 was the first woman to become a minister on the staff of Riverside Church in Manhattan, died on April 4 in Norristown, Pa. She was 96. A Pennsylvania resident since 1988, she lived in Lansdale. Her death was announced by a stepson, former
 Deena Burton, an expert on Indonesian dance, died April 3 at her mother's home in Queens. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Helene Browning, a friend. Born in New York City, Ms. Burton began her studies of Asian theater at the University of W
 BECK--Ruth. 88, born in Brooklyn, passed April 17, 2005, in Trumbull, CT. For 65 years, she was the devoted wife of Dr. Arthur. Loving mother of Dr. Lawrence and Dr. Michael, beloved motherin-law of Alice and Marcia and adored grandmother of Sara, Andrew, Marissa and Morgen. Donations may b
 FRIEDMAN--Karen. On April 16, 2005. A junior high school science teacher and devoted member of her temple. Loving wife of Mark Friedman, cherished mother of Brad & Abby Friedman, devoted daughter of Norman & Lucille Isaacs. Funeral service Monday, 1 pm, Westchester Jewish Center in Mamarone
 KELLY--Katharine Elizabeth Barrett. A lifetime resident of Katonah, NY, died peacefully on April 15, 2005. She was 96. Mrs. Kelly was born May 20, 1908, in Katonah to the late Edward P. and Estelle T. Barrett. After graduating from Katonah High School, Class of 1926, she studied at the Scut
 MAHANNA--Connie P. (nee Panayotti). On April 16, 2005, 81 years. Devoted wife of Edward, loving mother of Jim, Paul, David and Linda Pardee. Caring grandmother of five, and affectionate sister. Strong believer in St. Jude, in togetherness, in learing new ideas. Also an exceptional businessw
 MARKAY--Dorothy Fish. On April 13, 2005, in Schenectady, NY. Wife of the late Charles H. Markay. Beloved mother of Jesse B. Markay of Albuquerque, NM, and the late David K. Markay and daughterin-law Barbara Scott Markay of Santa Monica, CA. Graduate of Skidmore College, Class of 1940. Retir
 TAYLOR--Ellen M. Died at her home in Port St. Lucie, FL, on April 14, 2005. Born in Pittsburgh, on August 22, 1928, she was a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh and a member of Kappa Kappa Gamma. She was a flight attendant for Capital Airlines during the glamour age of air travel. In 
 HOROWITZ--Irving. The Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation extends condolences to its esteemed member Arline Duker on the loss of her father, Irving Horowitz. May she and her family be sustained by cherished memories and may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jeru
 RUZICKA--Marla. The Open Society Institute mourns the loss of human rights activist and friend Marla Ruzicka, who was killed by a car bomb in Baghdad on Saturday. She lost her life while working to arrange medical care and compensation for the civilian victims of the war in Iraq. The Open S
 SURREY--Mildred Roth Teitelbaum, ''Mimi'', on Saturday, April 16, 2005. Formerly of Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, and lastly, a Florida resident. Daughter of Dena and Louis; sister of Adele; wife of Albert; beloved mother of Ruth and Lewis; and grandmother of Dean. Her devotion to family, li
 FELDBLUM--Selene. April 18, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Philip Feldblum and the late David Rosenberg. Mother of David and James Rosenberg. Mother-in-law of Deirdre Rosenberg and Janet Bly. Loving grandmother of Christopher, John, David and Katherine and great-grandmother of Olivia and Ju
 LEV--Elda Kantor. Wife of Joshua for 71 years, beloved mother of Shelby Kleeger & Martin Lev. Grandmother to five, great-grandmother to ten, friend to all. Elda passed away April 13 in Hollywood, FL. She will be missed.       
 NOYES--Carol R. The Board, Council and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City are deeply saddened by the death of Honorary Board member Carol R. Noyes. Carol joined the PPNYC Board in 1966, and served with distinction on nearly every agency committee. Carol was an outstanding fundrais
 ROSS--Suzanne Roberta. Beloved wife of Arthur and devoted mother of Karen and Neil. Loving mother-in-law of Andrew and Wendy. Adored grandmother of Arinn, Samantha, Hadley, and Alanna, each of whom she loved with all her heart and soul. Dear sister of Florence; sister-inlaw of David and of 
 SONN--Alice Cohen. Age 93, of White Plains, daughter of Samuel and Belle Ansbacher Cohen, sister of the late Paul A. Cohen. Wife of the late Howard Sonn. Mother of Edward Sonn of Carlisle, MA, Elizabeth Rose of Marietta, GA, Barbara Thanhauser of Stamford, CT, and the late William Sonn. Gra
 WALSH--Leo M. Jr. On April 17. Retired executive of the Equitable Life Assurance Society. Beloved husband of Ann Quinn Walsh. Devoted father of Christine, Rosemary, Paul, Kathryn, Mark, Leo and Regina. Cherished grandfather of nine. Fond brother of Carol Adach. Also survived by many loving 
 ALARCON--Mercedes, 92, on April 20. Beloved mother of Margarita Tumolo and Sonia Dunning. Devoted grandmother of Diane and James. Loving great-grandmother of Michelle and Steven. She was dearly loved and will be missed. Memorial Mass on Saturday, April 23 at 11AM at Holy Rosary Roman Cathol
 DIXON--Constance Hoadley, 83, on April 19, 2005, at her home in Stonington. Devoted wife of the late Francis C. Dixon, beloved mother to Christopher, Jenny and Cynthia, loving grandmother to Rachel, Tyler and Jessica. Her intellectual curiosity, engagement with the world, love of books, fri
 NOYES--Carol Rothschild. Died April 18, 2005, at her home in Cold Spring Harbor, New York. She was the widow of Charles P. Noyes. Born Carol Warburg Rothschild, the daughter of Walter and Carola Rothschild, she served on the Board of Directors of the Natural Resources Defense Council, Plann
 PERRYMAN--Sally Jean. On April 14, 2005, longtime West Village resident. Family, friends and neighbors will miss her.       
 RUSHTON -- Mrs. Rachel Rushton, age 41 of Atlanta, GA died Tuesday, April 19, 2005. Born in Albany, GA, Rachel was a 1981 graduate of The Westminster Schools. She was a 1986 Magna Cum Laude graduate of Wellesley College and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Rachel was a founding consultant of Sou
 TEIDOR--Esther, age 91, died April 19th with the courage and beauty that always defined her. Mourned by loving sister Lillian Hack, adoring nieces and nephews Joel Park, Patti Kenner, Madeline Dreifus, Dennis Askwith, Jessica Hack, Stephanie Swoveland, Kathy Franklin, devoted brother-in-law
 CAPPELLA--Patricia. 92, passed away on April 16, 2005, at Bronx Lebanon Hospital, NYC. She was born FlorencePatricia Reynolds on February 7, 1913 to Herbert and Amelia Reynolds of Detroit, Mi. She married Jacques Cappella in 1942 and they formed the internationally known dance team of Cappe
 DENNIS--Jill Andrea at age 61 after a lengthy and courageous struggle with breast cancer. Loving wife of the late Dr. Robert Dennis. Devoted mother of Samantha Dennis. Cherished daughter of Helen Greenwood. Adored grandmother of Sweetpea. Services Friday, April 22, 10 AM at the Riverside-Na
 EATON--Justine A., 93, of New York, and Dublin, NH. Died peacefully at home, April 20th. Widow of Fredrick M. Eaton, a partner at Shearman & Sterling. Mother of Justine E. Auchincloss, Frederick A. Eaton, and the late John M. Eaton. Sister of Irene Grant and the late Martha Blagden. Attende
 HALL--Evelyn A.J. (Mrs. Melville Wakeman). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council mourn the loss of Evelyn A.J. Hall, who had been a member of the Council since 1970 and a Trustee of the Museum since 1979. At the Museum she chaired the Library Commi
 HOFFMAN--Ida Silverman, age 95, on April 21, 2005. A true original who fully enjoyed life. Wife of Martin, sister of Michael and Ethel Silverman and Bertha Smith, and adored aunt, great-aunt and great-great-aunt not only to her family but to the many who delighted in knowing her. The family
 LINDER--Sylvia, 87, died on April 20, 2005. Loving wife and best friend to Ira for 65 years. Beloved mother of Theodore, Andrew and Arthur. Loving mother-in-law of Arlene and V.J. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Eric, Jacob and Dana. Loving sister of Rose Ullman and the late Jack Radin a
 NEUWIRTH--Anna. Devoted wife of the late Benjamin. Beloved mother of Sylvia Wagner (Robert) of Rockville, MD. and Paul D. Neuwirth (Delaney) of Philadelphia, PA. She is also survived by grandchildren Stephen R. Neuwirth (Nataly), James G. Neuwirth (Sandra), Lesley Wagner, David E. Wagner an
 TRUMAN--Elinor Griffenhagen, 90, on April 20, 2005, in Sarasota, Florida. Beloved wife of the late David B. Truman; mother of Edwin (Ted) Truman and his wife, Tracy P. Truman; grandmother of David R. Truman and his wife, Amy Suelzer, and of Christine J. Truman and her husband, Ian Woollett;
 Diane Knippers, a religious strategist who helped conservative Christians raise an increasingly loud and unified voice in the traditionally liberal bastions of mainline Protestantism in recent years, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. She was 53. The cause was cancer, according to the
 ALLEGRETTI -- Vera. On April 22, 2005 age 90, of Pt Washington, NY. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset on Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Religious services Monday, 10:00 AM, The United Methodist Church, Middle Neck Rd, Pt Washington. Interment Nassau Knolls Cem
 ARRINGTON--Dorothy Ann Madison of Brooklyn, New York, 89, died Saturday, April 16. The devoted wife of the late Martin Luther Arrington, devoted mother of Alma Arrington Brown, a beloved grandmother to Michael Brown and Tracey Brown, and adoring great-grandmother to Morgan Brown and Ryan Br
 EATON--Justine A., 93, of New York, and Dublin, NH. Died peacefully at home, April 20th. Widow of Fredrick M. Eaton, a partner at Shearman & Sterling. Mother of Justine E. Auchincloss, Frederick A. Eaton, and the late John M. Eaton. Sister of Irene Grant and the late Martha Blagden. Attende
 GREENBAUM -- Ruth of Larchmont, NY. Died April 21, 2005. Survived by her husband Edward Greenbaum, children Jonathan Wolfe Greenbaum (wife Virginia), Joanne Greenbaum and Susan Ressa Cohen (husband Chaim), grandchildren Tal, Ben, Joe, Jesse, Leeor and Casey and a brother Norman Birnbaum. Do
 HALL--Evelyn A.J. (Mrs. Melville Wakeman). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council mourn the loss of Evelyn A.J. Hall, who had been a member of the Council since 1970 and a Trustee of the Museum since 1979. At the Museum she chaired the Library Commi
 MEHTA--Tehmina. The New York Philharmonic notes with sorrow the death in Los Angeles, on April 22, 2005 of Tehmina Mehta, 96, mother of former New York Philharmonic Music Director Zubin Mehta and current President and Executive Director Zarin Mehta, and wife of the late conductor and violin
 NOYES -- Carol Rothschild. The President and Board of Trustees of Vassar College note with deepest sorrow the passing of Carol Rothschild Noyes, Class of 1939, a loyal and devoted supporter of the College who served as a trustee, director of the Alumnae Association and the founding co-chair
 PLOTTEL--Marilyn. Family and friends mourn with sorrow your sudden death on April 21. PLOTTEL -- Marilyn. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of our member, Rhea Plottel. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi 
 MARK--Phyllis B. Loving wife of the late Alan. Devoted mother of Pamela and Ira. Grandmother of Eli and Jesse. There will be a memorial service in her honor at Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St., NYC, Sunday, May 1, 2005 at 11 AM. Please call 212-674-8055 for information.     
 EATON--Justine A., 93, of New York, and Dublin, NH. Died peacefully at home, April 20th. Widow of Fredrick M. Eaton, a partner at Shearman & Sterling. Mother of Justine E. Auchincloss, Frederick A. Eaton, and the late John M. Eaton. Sister of Irene Grant and the late Martha Blagden. Attende
 GREENBAUM -- Ruth of Larchmont, NY. Died April 21, 2005. Survived by her husband Edward Greenbaum, children Jonathan Wolfe Greenbaum (wife Virginia), Joanne Greenbaum and Susan Ressa Cohen (husband Chaim), grandchildren Tal, Ben, Joe, Jesse, Leeor and Casey and a brother Norman Birnbaum. Do
 HALL--Evelyn Annenberg. 93, on April 21, 2005. Devoted daughter of Moses Louis and Sadie Cecelia Annenberg. Cherished sister of Enid Haupt. Beloved mother of John and Robert Friede and Thomas Jaffe. Loving grandmother of Lisa Friede, Karen Holden and John William Friede and great grandmothe
 HIRSCH--Charlotte. Age 87 of Yonkers, NY, died peacefully at home on April 22, 2005. Devoted wife of 54 years to the late Sol Hirsch. Loving and cherished mother of Gerald Hirsch, Cecelia Hirsch Gedinsky and Lawrence Hirsch and daughter-in-law Susan Zimmerman Hirsch. Adored and revered gran
 KATZ--Frances Stimmel, 84, on April 18. Beloved mother of Robert and Cara Stimmel and son - in - law, Richard Agins, of Hartford, CT. Adored grandmother to Sasha. Her exemplary life inspired all who knew her and she will be greatly missed.       
 NORTH--Joan. Of Briarcliff Manor, NY, died April 22, 2005, at Phelps Memorial Hospital, after a brief illness. She was 70. Mrs. North was involved in several philanthropic activities in her local community, including as former president of the Donald R. Reed Speech and Hearing Center at Phe
 STANFIELD--Pamela Hope. Artist, on February 15, 2005. Pratt graduate 1980. Pam brought sunshine and pleasure into every life she touched. All who loved Pam miss and mourn her tragic passing. Pam is survived by mother Marie, brother Jim, Jim's wife Cindy, loving family, countless friends. Al
 TAYLOR--Ellen M. Died at her home in Port St. Lucie, FL, on April 14, 2005. Born in Pittsburgh, on August 22, 1928, she was a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh and a member of Kappa Kappa Gamma. She was a flight attendant for Capital Airlines during the glamour age of air travel. In 
 MARK--Phyllis B. Loving wife of the late Alan. Devoted mother of Pamela and Ira. Grandmother of Eli and Jesse. There will be a memorial service in her honor at Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St., NYC, Sunday, May 1, 2005 at 11 AM. Please call 212-674-8055 for information.     
 BRODKIN--Sylvia Z. 89, April 21, after a long illness. B.A. Brooklyn College, M.A. NYU. She taught English at West Hempstead High School and was chair, English Department 15 years before retiring. She co-authored texts and anthologies on literature. In her retirement she lectured at the Ins
 EATON--Justine A., 93, of New York, and Dublin, NH. Died peacefully at home, April 20th. Widow of Fredrick M. Eaton, a partner at Shearman & Sterling. Mother of Justine E. Auchincloss, Frederick A. Eaton, and the late John M. Eaton. Sister of Irene Grant and the late Martha Blagden. Attende
 HALL--Evelyn Annenberg. 93, on April 21, 2005. Devoted daughter of Moses Louis and Sadie Cecelia Annenberg. Cherished sister of Enid Haupt. Beloved mother of John and Robert Friede and Thomas Jaffe. Loving grandmother of Lisa Friede, Karen Holden and John William Friede and great grandmothe
 HIRSCH--Charlotte. Age 87 of Yonkers, NY, died peacefully at home on April 22, 2005. Services Tuesday, 11:45 am, at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. HIRSCH--Charlotte. The best grandmother in the world. Her kindness, wisdom, stories and recipes will remain in our minds and 
 LERNER--Nathali. On April 22, 2005. Beloved aunt of John Degenshein, Beth Diskin, Mallory Warren. Loving aunt and friend to all who knew her. A memorial service will be held on April 29, 2005, 11:30 a.m. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ATLAS--Rose. (Nee Slavinksky). Died on April 20, 2005. She is survived by her son Gregory, granddaughters Laura and Rachel, sister Frances, and many nieces and nephews. She will be profoundly missed. A memorial gathering will be held Sunday, May 1, 1-4 P.M. at the Mount Sinai School of Medi
 HALL--Evelyn Annenberg. 93, on April 21, 2005. Devoted daughter of Moses Louis and Sadie Cecelia Annenberg. Cherished sister of Enid Haupt. Beloved mother of John and Robert Friede and Thomas Jaffe. Loving grandmother of Lisa Friede, Karen Holden and John William Friede and great grandmothe
 SOCKOLOW--Harry. On Sunday, April 24, 2005, of Wayne, NJ. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Melissa Sockolow and Dr. Robbyn Sockolow and her husband Brian Maier. Cherished grandfather of Rebecca and Dax Maier. Mr. Sockolow was the former owner of Rockland Bakery in Nanuet, NY. S
 SUTTON--Sondra. You were taken from us much too soon. With our deepest sorrows, we mourn our beloved sister-inlaw. Our sympathy to her husband Ralph and her children, Audrey, Sammy, Morris and Frieda. You will always be in our hearts. Eileen, Joe and Children SUTTON--Sondra. To our 
 ATLAS--Rose. (Nee Slavinsky), 82. Died on April 20, 2005. She is survived by her son, Gregory; granddaughters, Laura and Rachel; sister, Frances; and many nieces and nephews. She will be profoundly missed. A memorial gathering will be held Sunday, May 1, 1-4 P.M. at the Mount Sinai School o
 FELDMAN--Fannie Cagan of Richmond, VA, on April 22 2005, at age 89. Devoted wife of the late James G. Feldman. Sister of Isaac Cagan of Brooklyn, NY. Born near Navarodok in 1916, Fannie & Jimmy were married for 57 years. Fannie was a loving wife, mother and grandmother. She was a Life Membe
 SEIDMAN--Irene. (Nee Edwards) Age 84 of New Rochelle, NY on April 26, 2005. Loving wife of Benedict; cherished mother of Michael (Judy), Robert (Maureen) and Peter (Julie); grandmother of Jessica, Andrew, Conor, Owen, Brendan, Sarah, Abigail and Jacob; sister of Joyce Fried, Gloria Levinger
 HAZAN--Leslie Beth. To my daughter on her 42nd Birthday, you are missed every minute of every day.       
 Maria Schell, an Austrian actress who achieved international fame in Hollywood and became a major star of German-language films, died on Tuesday at her home in Preitenegg, Austria. She was 79. The cause was heart failure, the mayor of Preitenegg, Franz Kogler, told the German news a
 BREZNER--Lillian. Mrs. Harry Brezner (Lillian Novick) was born April 26, 1906. She was the daughter of Sadie and Hyman Novick, of family-owned Laurels Country Club, Monticello, NY. Lillian was in charge of the management of their kitchen. The hotel had the capacity of 3000 people, in its he
 DELMAN--Geraldine Evelyn, 72, on April 26, 2005 of Boca Raton, FL. Loving wife of the late Perry Delman for over 50 years. Devoted mother of Robert and Scott. Cherished mother - in - law of Lynn. Adored grandmother of Edward, Jeffrey, Jonathan and Rebecca. She left us far too soon, and her 
 HALL--Evelyn A.J. (Mrs. Melville W. Hall). The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of our Advisory Council member and longtime volunteer in The Society's Fresh Flower Program. A generous supporter of the Center's many innovative programs, Evie also brought j
 KLINGHOFFER--Libby. On April 27, 2005. Age 94. Loving wife of the late Sidney. Beloved mother of Arthur and Judy and Bette and Peter. Beloved sister of Gladys Hyman and the late Mildred Klotz. Devoted grandmother of Joella, Bruce, Craig and Steve. Cherished great grandmother of Maggie, Dani
 RABBE--Marjorie H., 89, born September 11, 1915 in New York, NY, passed away Monday, April 25, 2005 in Naples, FL. Daughter of the late George W. Harris and Minnie C. Harris of New York, NY. She graduated from the St. Agatha School for Girls and was the Class of 1937, Smith College, Northha
 SEIDMAN--Irene. (Nee Edwards) Age 84 of New Rochelle, NY on April 26, 2005. Loving wife of Benedict; cherished mother of Michael (Judy), Robert (Maureen) and Peter (Julie); grandmother of Jessica, Andrew, Conor, Owen, Brendan, Sarah, Abigail and Jacob; sister of Joyce Fried, Gloria Levinger
 SHERMAN -- Natalie Hyde. Passed away on Sunday, April 17, 2005 at Good Samaritan Medical Center. Formerly of New York City and Southampton, Long Island, she was the beloved wife of the late George C. Sherman, Jr., devoted mother of Michael G. C. Sherman, Berkeley, CA and Wendy Sherman of Ne
 STANIFORD--Ellen Breed, 76, of Lawrence, LI on April 27, 2005. Beloved wife of Foye F. Staniford, Jr. Mother of Ellen, Louise, Foye M. and William, grandmother of Benjamin, Sarah, Cordelia and Caroline. An adventurous, spirited and giving soul. She was a devoted docent at the American Museu
 WALDMAN--Florence, 60, of Manalapan, NJ, died Sunday, in Los Angeles. She was predeceased by her daughter, Glynn, in 1987. Surviving are her husband, Barry; her daughter, Ilene, and her husband, Phil Eskenazi of California; two grandsons, Zachary and Gavin of California; her mother, Ida Smi
 BARASCH--Gloria Phyllis. On April 27, 2005 at the age of 81. Most beloved wife of Norman. Treasured mother of Marc and Douglas. Adored grandmother of Leah, Katie and Nicholas, and much loved great-grandmother of Antonio and Benecio. Unforgettable to her friends (and to their friends). Endle
 DELMAN--Geraldine Evelyn, 72, on April 26, 2005 of Boca Raton, FL. Loving wife of the late Perry Delman for over 50 years. Devoted mother of Robert and Scott. Cherished mother - in - law of Lynn. Adored grandmother of Edward, Jeffrey, Jonathan and Rebecca. She left us far too soon, and her 
 McCARTEN--Dorothy ''Gloria''. Of Pawtucket, RI died April 26, 2005. She was the wife of Louis Andrew Cuvillier McCarten to whom she had been married for over 49 years. Born in Manhattan, she was a daughter of the late Philip and Marguerite (Thornton) Kearns. She was a graduate of Mount Sain
 POLLACK--Marsha E., of Palm Beach Gardens, FL and Short Hills, NJ. Beloved wife of Leon M. Cherished daughter of Dave and the late Frances Heiss. Devoted mother of Andrea Gabay and Robin Perlman. Dear sister of Howard Heiss. Most precious grandmother of Amanda, Julia and Sam. Funeral Servic
 RABBE--Marjorie H., 89, born September 11, 1915 in New York, NY, passed away Monday, April 25, 2005 in Naples, FL. Daughter of the late George W. Harris and Minnie C. Harris of New York, NY. She graduated from the St. Agatha School for Girls and was the Class of 1937, Smith College, Northha
 ROBERT--Carmen. Beloved mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister and aunt. Born Ponce, Puerto Rico, 1909, died Thursday, April 28, 2005. Predeceased by her son, George Gallego, son-in-law, Joe Tomasini, brother, Juan and sister Marina. Survived by her large, loving family-brother, Luis
 STANIFORD--Ellen Breed, 76, of Lawrence, LI on April 27, 2005. Beloved wife of Foye F. Staniford, Jr. Mother of Ellen, Louise, Foye M. and William, grandmother of Benjamin, Sarah, Cordelia and Caroline. An adventurous, spirited and giving soul. She was a devoted docent at the American Museu
 HATCH -- Rakia. Columbia University Medical Center and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital will always be indebted to the Hatch Family for its long legacy of support, and we honor the memory of Rakia Hatch for personifying this legacy. Rakia, with her husband, Richard, continued the legacy of Mar
 HAUPTMAN -- Roselyn. On April 28, 2005. Beloved wife of Benjamin Hauptman for 63 years, mother of Barbara Goldstein and Larry Hauptman, mother-in-law of Howard Goldstein and Jan Roth, grandmother of Rebecca, Joshua, Daniel and Matthew, sister of Gladys Gibson. HAUPTMAN -- Roselyn. T
 LAWSON--Elizabeth. Died April 27, 2005 peacefully. She was a wonderful human being and a lady. We will miss our sister: Kay Sullivan, Edna Thornton, Dorothy Daly, Marilyn Miller. Memorial service to be held on May 7th, 10AM at Church of Our Saviour, 38th Street and Park Ave, N.Y.       
