 BERAKHA-Esther (nee Rossi). Of Manhattan, died on December 29, 1999 just before her 89th birthday. Born in Buenos Aires. Loving wife of the late David Berakha. Mother of George Beraka, M.D., & the late Vicky Berakha. Mother-inlaw of Judy Beraka. Grandmother of Scott, David and Michael. May 
 GIBSON-Leslie Fuller Larned. Died December 14 at home in Washington, CT. A devoted wife, mother and grandmother, Mrs. Gibson divided her time between her home in CT, a residence in NYC, her son's in Birdsboro, PA, and at Bear Island in Penobscot Bay, ME, a property jointly held with other m
 MACTAS-Celia. Age 89. Survived by her loving children Arline, David (Ellen) and Leonard (Leah), brother Jack Swidler, adoring grandchildren and cherished great-grandchildren. Services are Sunday, 10 A.M., at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Route 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 McCRORY-Sylvia (nee Hogben). of Pound Ridge, NY; born London, England. She was the daughter of Lancelot Hogben and Enid Charles. She will be remembered as a loving Grandmother, Mother and Wife. Breeder of Liafail Irish Setters. She volunteered at Pound Ridge, Hiram Halle Memorial Library. S
 SMITH-Katherine Anne. Died on December 30, 1999 in Quakertown, Pennsylvania of pneumonia. She was 57. Her sisters, Margie Goldsmith and Lynne Miller, are saddened by her passing. Kathy is the daughter of the late Nancy Naumberg Goldsmith and Eugene Maurice Goldsmith.       
 TAYLOR-Frieda. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, with profound sorrow, mourn the passing of Frieda Taylor, the mother of our esteemed partner and founder, Stewart Taylor. This courageous woman, cherished her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She was dee
 Annie O. Plummer, a housekeeper in Savannah, Ga., whose single-minded campaign to distribute thousands of free dictionaries to needy schoolchildren made her nationally known as ''The Dictionary Lady,'' died Dec. 23 at her home. She was 63. Ms. Plummer died of lung cancer, said Edwar
 CLOSE-Mary ''Molly'' G.., 94, of Niantic, CT, died Dec. 22, 1999, at her home. Miss Close was born in London, England on September 14, 1905, the daughter of Ralph Tompkins and Margaret Godfrey Close. She grew up in Westwood, NJ and moved to Niantic in 1965. She was a graduate of Westwood (N
 HOOKE-Sr. Elizabeth Mercedes. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Thursday, December 30, 1999. Survived by her niece, nephew and cousins. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY, on Monday, 1-8 PM. Mass of Christian Burial
 KAUFMAN-Carole. On December 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Morton, loving mother of Richard and Joanne, devoted mother-in-law of Robin and Alan, dear sister of Mildred, Gerald, Ted and Susan, adoring ''Grammy'' of Melissa, Jenny, Jesse and Zak. Her warmth, love and extraordinary capacity for giv
 KIRSCHMAN-Dorothy ''Dottie'' Freeman. Age 93, died peacefully at home on December 27 with her dear friend Betty Brown at her side. She was preceded in death by her husband Lewis Kirschman and her sisters, Irma Bacharach and Julia Bloch. She is survived by her children Richard Kirschman of D
 LORD-Comfort (nee Parker). Died on December 25, 1999 in her 88th year at her home in Palm Beach, FL after a long illness. She is survived by a daughter Julia (Jill) Rodgers of New York City, and a son Cornelius O'Connor of West Palm Beach, FL. A memorial service will be held at the Church o
 MEIER-June. On December 26, 1999. Wife of the late Frank Meier. Mother of Diane, Gordon and Richard. Grandmother of Bennett, Bradford, Rebecca and John. As master-craftsman, teacher and advocate, she helped to rediscover and resurrect lost decorative arts from decoupage to all manner of pai
 OLAN-Susan Marie Torian. Died on December 22, 1999, at her home in Dallas. She lived an active life in Dallas, Austin, Madison, and New York as a writer and investigator. Above all else, Susan dedicated her life to fighting for justice and equality among races, nations, genders, and those o
 SISSELMAN-Laura. Beloved wife of Frederick. Devoted mother of Donna Faye and Derek Cephas & the late Jeffrey Phillip Sisselman. Loving grandmother of Amanda, Stephen, Daisy and Sashie. Dear sister of Bill Spivak and the late Sylvia Friedman. Adoring Aunt Lee to her nieces and nephews. Servi
 SPURGEON-Gertrude (nee Terry). On December 29, 1999 age 94. Beloved wife of the late Thomas W. Spurgeon, Jr. Loving aunt of Lee Salisbury of Fairbanks, Alaska and Robert Salisbury of St. Petersburg, Florida. She is also survived by seven great-neices and great-nephews. A pillar of the nursi
 APPEL-Sylvia Evelyn. On January 1, 2000, at age 81. Beloved sister of Rosalind, dear and devoted aunt and adoring great-aunt. She devoted her life to teaching and to caring for others and will be missed by all whose lives she touched.       
 APPELL-Helen. Of New Rochelle, NY on Dec. 30, 1999. A retired teacher and guidance counselor in Mt. Vernon schools. Visiting hours Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelham, NY, on Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass Holy Family Church, New Rochelle, New York, on Wednesday at 11 A.M. In lieu 
 GREEN-Charlotte. 101, of NYC on January 1st. She was a sixty year employee of Lord, Day & Lord. Dear aunt of Joan M. Appleby. A memorial ceremony will be scheduled at a future date. In lieu of flowers, a contribution in her memory to the Monmouth University Library, Cedar Ave., West Long Br
 LEWISON-Miriam (nee Fink). Age 88, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of NY. Passed away suddenly December 31, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Harold J. Lewison. Loving mother to Peggy Brenner and the late Peter. Devoted sister to Isabelle Kleinfield, Bernice Shogan and the late Daniel Shogan and A
 LILLY-Gloria (nee Tuttle). December 31, 1999. Widow of Scott B. Lilly. Her children, Ann, Joan and Thomas Scott and stepdaughter, Leslie, announce with sadness the death of a woman of wit, music and a generous heart. She also leaves behind five grandchildren, one great-grandchild and a sist
 MEIER-June. On December 26, 1999. Wife of the late Frank Meier. Mother of Diane, Gordon and Richard. Grandmother of Bennett, Bradford, Rebecca and John. As master-craftsman, teacher and advocate, she helped to rediscover and resurrect lost decorative arts from decoupage to all manner of pai
 NITZBERG-Lucille. We mourn the passing of Lucille Nitzberg, a woman loved by her family and innumerable friends. Her zest for life is implanted in the hearts of her children Barbara & Charles Greebel, Bonnie & Alan Ulan, Lori & Bruce Rothman, grandchildren Evan, Robert, Gennifer, Melissa, J
 SCAL-Sadie. Formerly of Great Neck, LI, on January 1, 2000. She loved and was loved by her late husband Jacob, her son Donald and her daughter Jane Roberts, grandchildren Andrew, Edward, Peter, Jan, Ellen and Nancy, and eight great-grandchildren. At age 101, her life spanned three centuries
 SISSELMAN-Laura. Beloved wife of Frederick. Devoted mother of Donna Faye and Derrick Cephas & the late Jeffrey Phillip Sisselman. Loving grandmother of Amanda, Stephen, Daisy and Sashie. Dear sister of Bill Spivak and the late Sylvia Friedman. Adoring Aunt Lee to her nieces and nephews. Ser
 STADTER-Jean. On December 26, 1999, Jean Silverstein Stadter closed her eyes in peace. She is survived by her wards Carole Reed, Roy Caraballo, Elizabeth Gross and a host of friends who will miss her dearly. The family requests donations of remembrance be made in her name to the New York Ch
 GILL-Anne Barnard. Wife of Brendan Gill, died at the bungalow in Norfolk, CT., on December 22, 1999. Her children & grandchildren are thankful for her joyous life and infinite love. Memorial service at Christ Church, Bronxville, NY on Saturday, January 8, at 2 PM.       
 HUGHES-Loretta, 98 of Spring Lake, NJ on January 1, 2000 at her home. Dear sister of Helen Robinson, and the late Alyce Gerhard, Mary Hlavac, and Thomas Hughes, loving aunt of 12. Mass of Christian Burial, Wednesday, January 5, 2000 at 10:30am at St. Catherine's RC Church, Spring Lake. Visi
 KAYE-Florence Ruthven-Stuart died peacefully at Loudoun Hospital Center in Leesburg, Virginia on December 29, 1999. Dear wife of the late H. Austin Kaye and daughter of the late Alick and Stella Ruthven-Stuart; much loved by her brother and sisters, Jean, Lilias, Iona, Ian and Stella-Mary. 
 KUSHEN-Betty, Ph.D. of West Orange, New Jersey, (formerly of New York City and Miami Beach, Fl.) on January 2, in her sixty-seventh year, following an eight year battle with ovarian cancer. Wife for 48 years of Allan; mother of Annette and Robert; grandmother of Elizah and Sophia-Scholar, W
 LEVINSON-Sylvia Landy. Age 77. On January 3, 2000. Adored wife for 52 years of Alfred Levinson, mother of Laurie, Marjorie, John, and William, grandmother of Olivia, Cecily, Marisa, Julia, and Daniel. For 15 years, devoted volunteer to In-Touch Networks and the Jewish Guild for the Blind-Li
 LIPSHIE-Geraldine On January 3, 2000. Beloved wife of Norman. Cherished daughter of Sydell Ballon. Loving mother of Greg, Tamara, Cara, Amy and Beth. Dear sister of Lois and adored Bubby to Madeleine, Claire, Melissa, William, Lila and Aaron. Services Tuesday 12:30pm at ''Riverside'', 76th 
 LOEB-Anne-Marie (Nany), died peacefully at the age of 83 on December 27, in Bern, Switzerland. She was the beloved and devoted wife of the late Victor Loeb, cherished mother/mother-in-law of Marion Meyer-Robboy, Francois Loeb, Claire Loeb, Viviane Tobler, Sylvie Paraskevopoulos, the late Cl
 McDONALD-Frances R. (nee Jacobsen), of Floral Park, NY on January 1, 2000 at her home. Beloved wife of John. Proud mother of Jean, John (wife Sara), Susan (husband Jeff Gould) and Margaret. Cherished grandmother of Jeffery and John Gould. Sister of Richard Jacobsen and aunt of 14 nieces and
 OPPENHEIMER-Kathe. Born December 25, 1900. Died December 31, 1999. Beloved mother of Axel (deceased), Stephen, Ruth, Andrea and Coco. Studied law at University of Munich, married Alfred Jarislowsky. Widowed 1929; took charge of a major German industrial group including an investment bank, g
 ROEDELHEIMER - Dorothy Lears. Born January 5, 1904, died peacefully in LaJolla, Ca January 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Edgar Roedelheimer, and loving mother of Judith Pacht, grandmother of Jonathan and Carolyn Robbins Siegel and great grandmother of Jessica Siegel. Contributions may b
 SIEGEL-Julia (nee Aluff). Died in her 82nd year. Most devoted mother of Marjorie and Lawrence. Wife of the late Joseph Siegel. Grandmother, aunt and sister. Her warmth will be felt always. Services Sinai Chapels, January 4, 2000 at 1PM, 162nd Street at Long Island Expressway.       
 SNYDER-Susan. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died Saturday, January 1, 2000 after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer, at age 53. Loving wife of Marc A. Snyder, mother of Rachel Snyder and Michael Snyder and daughter of Lee Krupnick and the late Samuel Krupnick of Saint Louis, MO. S
 TENCH-Fredrika Steif, 93, of Guilford, CT, died peacefully on January 1, 2000 with her daughters Diana Stovall and Marcy Crimmins at her side. Wife of the late John R. Tench, Mrs. Tench was born in New York City, the daughter of Erwin Steif and Mary Hall. She graduated from Westover School,
 USDAN-Selma G. 75. Passed away unexpectedly December 28, 1999. With overwhelming grief and sadness, we announce the death of our beloved mother and best friend, Selma Goldfein Usdan. She touched all who knew her by her graciousness, keen intelligence and extraordinary degree of competence. 
 WEINER-Florence. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted sister of Thelma Isaacson, the late Dr. Jesse Rabinowitz, and the late Sidney Robbins. Cherished aunt and great aunt. Her dimpled smile and gentle nature will be long remembered. Died New Year's Day.       
 APFEL-Helene. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted Member, Charlotte Green. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 BERGEN-Katrina., of London and Menorca, Spain, who had also been a resident of Manhattan and West Cornwall, CT for many years, died December 22 in Ft. Pierce, FL, where she had arrived to vacation with her family. A memorial service was held at St. Mark's Church in Ft. Pierce. Born in Berli
 BOHM-Renee. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of our beloved member and supporter Renee Bohm. She was a woman of great grace, bearing and dignity who cared deeply about her family, her community and her people. We extend our condolences to her loving family. Kenneth Auman, Rabbi M
 GOTTSEGEN - Katherine Mark Hafner. Died peacefully January 3, 2000 in NYC, age 82. Beloved wife of the late Irving, her husband of 54 years. She was born November 14, 1917 in Brooklyn and lived most of her life in Bedford Hills, NY. She was a partner at Tobe Associates in Manhattan for many
 HUBERMAN-Elizabeth (nee Cohen). January 3, 2000. Princeton, NJ; formerly of Hewlett, NY. Beloved wife of Harry Huberman; gentle mother of Roberta Huberman, Laura BenShmuel and Ellen Huberman; proud grandmother of Maryam, Juliet, Shaia, Michal, Elisheva, Zack, Ben, Alex and Shira. Intellectu
 IVERS-Hilda. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Hilda Ivers beloved mother of Jacqueline Metzger. We extend condolences to Jacqueline and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 LIPPMANN-Zilla. The New Dramatists Community of Playwrights, Board members, staff and friends deeply mourn the passing of our President Emerita, Zilla Lippmann on December 27, 1999. Zilla was our guiding spirit over three generations. Through the John Golden Fund, named for her beloved uncl
 NUSSDORF-Janet Reisner., age 91 formerly of New York City. Educator, painter, writer and cherished mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Linda and Dr. Lawrence Bizer, her grandchildren, Marc and David Bizer and Karen Bizer Leder and great grandc
 REINES-Esther., formerly of Wayne, NJ, on Monday, January 3, 2000. Beloved wife of over 50 years of the late Leon J. Reines. Loving mother of Sheila Reines. Dear sister of Anne Chikofsky, Sylvia Herberman and the late George Puro. Also survived by her loving sisters-in-law, brothers-inlaw, 
 ROSENHIRSCH-Blanche. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Blanche Rosenhirsch, a cherished friend and compassionate leader who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. She expressed her commitment to humanitarian causes through the L
 WEINBAUM - Henrietta. Died peacefully on January 2. Born on July 4, 1893, she lived through three centuries. Funeral service at Knollwood Park Cemetery, Queens, Sunday, January 9 at 11 A.M. For information, call (212) 496-6682. Henrietta was a respected elocution, speech, and drama teacher,
 ALLEN-Rosa Lee. December 31, 1999. Survived by by her daughter Elaine, son-in-law Elbert Hines, grandchildren Kendall, Mark, Kelly and loving family.       
 ALSCHULER-Emily. The Officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee have lost a dear and cherished friend and generous supporter with the passing of Emily Alschuler. Emily was a long-time member of AJC's National Board of Governors and of her local AJC Chicago Chapter. Devoted
 BOHM-Renee. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Renee Bohm, a dedicated leader who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. She was a cherished friend who served as a board member of our Women's Campaign in Brooklyn. We extend our s
 BOOSS-Muriel Gaukrodger., 93, a resident of Cheshire Convalescent Center, Cheshire, Conn. died on January 1, 2000. She was the widow of George F. Booss. Mrs. Booss was retired from Columbia University where she was a placement officer. She was a graduate of Barnard, a member of the Metropol
 BROCKMAN-Roberta, M.D.. The Board of Trustees, medical staff and administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Roberta Brockman, M.D. As a resident and a member of the Attending Staff at HSS, she provided the very finest in orthopedic care to the
 GOLDMAN-Edna Rae. Beloved wife of the late Al. Devoted mother of David Neil Goldman and Paula Sue Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Mary. Dear mother-in-law of Roger Cohen and Nancy Balph Goldman. Service Friday, 10am, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, NY (Near Ave
 HILL-Suzanne. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins the Department of Social Work and Home Care Services in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Suzanne Hill, who served as a dedicated senior social worker in substance abuse and AIDS services
 TEICHNER-Maurice. The Board of Directors and staff of the Mercantile Library mourn the passing of Maurice Teichner, husband of our long-time Board member. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to Eleanor and her family.       
 AGOGLIA-Loretta (nee Clavin). In her third century. On January 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Gerard. Loving mother of Gertrude, Emmet, Sr. Eileen, CSJ., and the late Robert, Gerard, Eugene and Kenneth. Also survived by sixteen grandchildren and twenty-two great grandchildren. Visiting o
 APFEL-Helene. AMIT is saddened by the passing of the beloved mother of our dear benefactor, Charlotte Green, who together with her late cherished husband, Moshe Green, endowed the AMIT Yeud Pre-Army/National Service Program for Girls in Jerusalem. Heartfelt condolences to the entire family.
 BREINDEL-Blanche. On January 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Breindel. Died after a brief illness in her 93rd year. We remember her as a cherished, devoted, noble, gentle woman. She was an active Life Member of Amit Women-American Mizrachi. She was devoted to her children: Arthur (
 BROWN-Sylvia (nee Dorfman). On January 4, 2000. A beautiful, brilliant and witty woman, she was the devoted wife of the late Dr. Daniel Brown, proud and loving mother of Nancy Brown Liebeskind, Barbara Brown, Alice Brown, and Susan Brown. Devoted to sons-in-law, Thomas Morris and Terry Verh
 CAGAN-Susan. Of Albertson, N.Y. Passed away on January 2, 2000. Beloved wife of Jack Cagan. Mother of Arlynn, Barbara, Edward and Eric; mother-in-law of Harvey Hilton,William Harrington, Beth Cagan and Jeannie Cagan; grandmother of Heather, Danielle, Matthew, Brittany and Nicole. Her boundl
 GEORGES-PICOT-David. It is with great sadness that Martine and Luc Georges-Picot, Caroline Trevelo, Boris and Aurelien GeorgesPicot, Leone and Simon Nora, Sylvie, Maia, their children and grandchildren, Jean-Pierre Gallois, Sarah Georges-Picot, Joelle Gallois and her children, the General a
 GOLDBERG-Ida (Jadzia). 101 years of age. Beloved wife of dearly departed Moses Goldberg. Mother of two sons, Zelig and Schmulek, who perished in Treblinka, mother of dearly departed Miriam (Goldberg) Klein, motherin-law of John Klein. Grandmother of Ruth and Fred Schwalbe. Great grandmother
 OPPENHEIMER-Kathe. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of Helen Keller Services for the Blind are saddened by the loss of Kathe Oppenheimer who through a long and remarkable lifetime of achievement served as an example to all that visual handicap need not be a handicap to a full and r
 SULLIVAN-Pearl Steinhaus. Died on Jan. 5, 2000, at age 87. Survived by her brother Henry Steinhaus of Sarasota, Florida, and Leawood, KS, nephews Richard Z. Steinhaus Jr., of New York, Peter M. Steinhaus of Orlando, FL, Stephen Steinhaus of Chicago, IL, and niece Dana Lipsig of New York. Pr
 GOLDBERG-Ida. A true Eshes Chayil. May she rest in peace. Very sincere condolences to John Klein, Fred, Ruth, Evan and Jason Schwalbe. We all hope for happier days to come. Partners of Hilson Management Corporation       
 KRAMER-Sylvia. Founder of Womanspace in Great Neck. She helped established the organization designed to help women face the challenges of today's complex society. She will be missed by her sisters in the woman's movement. Claire J. Roth, Admin. Dir. The entire Executive Board       
 MAX-Muriel. On January 7, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Alison and Lawrence. Cherished daughter of Sarah Bonnett. Dear sister of Stewart & Sally Bonnett. Devoted aunt of Laura & Jennifer Bonnett. She will be deeply missed. Service Sun. 10:45am at ''The Riverside'', 
 MORGANSTERN - Mildred. Be loved wife of the late Abraham. Mother of Daniel, Ann and Lucy. Grandmother of Matthew. Mother-in-law of June. Sister of Lilly & Morty. Loving aunt and friend. A shining light and inspiration to all who knew her. Services Sunday, at 10:45AM, Sherman's Flatbush Memo
 RAPPAPORT - Hannah. Honey was the loved wife of Martin. Mother of Caren and Roger Weiss, Joan and Douglas Krantz. Grandmother of Robin and Michael Wendt, Wendy and Keith Gordon, Gregory and Rachel Weiss, Jonathan Isacoff, Jennifer Isacoff and Ben Krantz. Great-grandmother of Nicholas Carey 
 APPFEL-Helene. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved mother of our dear friend Charlotte Green, a YU Benefactor with her husband, the late Morris L. (Moshe) Green, who held leadership positions on the boards of YU and
 BORNSTEIN-Leah. Of Berkeley, CA. at 82, peacefully left this life December 30, 1999 surrounded by her children. She is also survived by Thelma and Sylvan Moskowitz of NJ and Al Zablow of NY.       
 BOYNTON-Estelle Pattillo, M.D., on January 4, 2000, of Forest Hills Gardens, NY. Born Atlanta, Ga., graduate Vassar College 1928, Johns Hopkins Medical School 1934. As an internist-neurologistpsychiatrist, she spent her life helping people to survive and live more satisfying and productive 
 CORN-Sadie (nee Singer). Born February 5, 1905 in NYC, wife of the late Ralph Corn, died peacefully on January 2, 2000. She resided for many years in Hallandale, FL. Beloved and loving sister-in-law of Dorothy Singer of NYC. Adored and adoring aunt of Sylvia Kostner of Smithtown, LI, Norman
 FINKELSTEIN - Rebecca. Says ''see you later'' to her daughter Eileen Schlesinger, son-in-law Alan, grandchildren Sam, Libby, Sarah and Elizabeth, sister Evelyn, all of Rockaway, brother Lew and wife Pearl, nieces and nephews, and says ''hello again'' to her parents, husband Natie, sons Davi
 JACOFF-Bernice. On January 8, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted mother of Ethel Weinberger, Ronald Jacoff and Martha Hamilton. Cherished grandmother of Miro, Sarah, Rebecca, Katharine, Ted, Emma and Sasha. Also survived by her sister Ruth. Services Sunday, 11 AM, at ''Riversi
 KINAS-Helen Yiannari, Dr. A prominent radiologist and longtime member of the American Medical Associaiton died Thursday morning at her home in Old Brookville, NY, following a short illness. Dr. Kinas, 72, was the wife of Arthur N. Kinas. Dr. Kinas was born in Iraklion, Crete, on June 5, 192
 LOPRETE-Connie. Passed away on January 6, 2000. She took her last breath with the strength and dignity that we all knew her for. She maintained her style and class through the end. She is survived by her son, Ralph, daughter-in-law, Naomi, and the newest apple of her eye, her granddaughter,
 MAX-Muriel. On January 7, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Alison and Lawrence. Cherished daughter of Sarah Bonnett. Dear sister of Stewart & Sally Bonnett. Devoted aunt of Laura & Jennifer Bonnett. She will be deeply missed. Service Sun. 10:45am at ''The Riverside'', 
 McLAUGHLIN-Irene T. of Island Park, N.Y. on January 6, 2000. Devoted sister of Mary Healy and her husband Peter. Dear cousin of Ray Tighe. Beloved aunt of Kevin Healy. A graveside service was held at St. Charles Cemetery, Farmingdale, N.Y. on January 8, 2000. Donations can be made to the AL
 ONLEY-Edna Fubler. Beloved mother of Arnold Ray Onley, Jacqueline Sams and Myra Johnson, mother-in-law of Albert Johnson and grandmother to Paul, Elizabeth and Marc Johnson, passed peacefully on Thursday, January 6, 2000. Edna lived these last ten years in Lake Mary, Florida with her son. S
 PROPPER - Kathryn S. (nee Sears). Of Mt. Kisco, NY, on January 1, 2000, at Northern Westchester Hospital. Kaye was born in Antigonish, Nova Scotia, on February 20, 1928. She was the loving wife of Henry M., of Mt. Kisco, NY, dear mother of Henry M. Jr., Susan C., David S. and Robert T., fon
 RUBENSTEIN-Julia Shirley. 95 years of age. Died January 2, 2000. Beloved mother of the late Aileen. Devoted & beloved grandmother of Peter & Amanda. Loving greatgrandmother of Emilie. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Association, 360 Lexington Avenue, 5th Floor, Ne
 SMITH-Anne Louise, R.N. Died January 6, 2000 in a nursing home. Beloved sister of Albert Smith and Irene Reiss. Aunt to Clifford Smith. Her warmth, kindness and caring will remain with us and with all who were blessed to know her.       
 STAMBERG-Amie Dixon, 49. Of Ridgefield, CT, on January 5. A marketing consultant to institutional investment firms, she was the daughter of the late Barbara B. Stamberg and is survived by her father, Frank L. Stamberg of Greenwich, CT, and Palm City, FL; two sisters, Susan S. Schnoor of Hur
 TIETZE-Sarah Lewit. 87, of Davidson, NC, NYC and Washington DC, on January 4, 2000. Editor, wife of late Christopher Tietze. She contributed time to The Population Council, Planned Parenthood and others. Siblings were Lee, Alferd Julian, Rose and Anne. Contributions to Christopher Tietze Fe
 GRIMES-Margaret. Of Mamaroneck, on January 8, 2000. She was 72. Born to Michael and Anna (nee Billow) Prehoda in Grandville, NY, on October 6, 1927. She is survived by her husband Charles; a son Christopher; sisters Mary Macura and Anna Prehoda. Predeceased by brothers George, Michael and W
 KICKHAEFER-Dorothy (Mrs. William L.). Died January 7, at home in NYC. Born Boise, Idaho, October 28, 1901. Preceded in death by brothers Hon. M. Oliver Koelsch and Dr. C. Frederick Koelsch. Survived by nieces and nephews. Ashes to be interred with her late husband in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  
 RADOYEVICH-Ruth B. On January 8, 2000, in her 88th year, of Port Jefferson. Loving wife of the late Boris. Beloved mother of Peter, Lisa Sweet and Ruth Van der Heide. She is also survived by four grandchildren. A Mass will be celebrated on Monday, at 1 PM, at St. James Episcopal Church in S
 SCHEINBERG-Louise G. The family mourns the passing of Louise, beloved wife of Labe, loving daughter of Isabel Goldman, devoted mother of Susan Kristol, David Scheinberg, Ellen Ranard, Amy Jones, and grandmother to Rebecca, Anne and Joe Kristol, Steven and Carolyn Scheinberg, Ben and Daniel 
 SPARROW-Ethel. On Friday, January 7, 2000, of Silver Spring, MD. Beloved wife of the late Allen E. Sparrow. Beloved mother of Rita Mall and the late Lawrence (Rachelle) Sparrow. Loving grandmother of Beth, Susan, and Lisa. Graveside service will be held on Tuesday, January 11, 2:30 PM, at B
 ADLER-Jenny. Early supporter and devoted Board member whose profound interest in assisting those in need will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere condolences to her daughter and the entire family. Boards of Directors Gemiluth Chessed of Greater New York, Inc. Palisades Gardens Foundatio
 DICKERMAN-Marion LaBau. The last surviving great grandchild of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt and the daughter of Bertha Vanderbilt LaBau and George Morgan Browne Jr., died Sunday, January 9, 2000 at home after a lengthy illness. She was 93 years old. Mrs. Dickerman was a graduate of Vassar
 HARDY-Eliza Caldwell, MD., 89. Beloved fifty year Pelham pediatrician died January 1st. at Beechwood Retirement community in Troy, her residence since 1994. Services at Huguenot Memorial Church, Pelham, on Saturday, January 15th at 2 PM.       
 KINAS-Helen Y., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Radiology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our friend and former colleague, Helen Y. Kinas, M.D., a longtime member of the radiology medical staff. To her f
 KOPALD-Judith, 84. (nee Gustin). January 8. Widow of Abraham, husband of 65 years, who predeceased her in September, '99. Mother of sons Ned and Jonathan, daughters-in-law Regina and Susan, grandchildren Deborah and Adam, two sisters and two brothers. Services Sunday, January 16 10AM Temple
 MANZO-Susan, at 46 years, of Manhattan, on January 9th, 2000 after a long illness. Beloved daughter of Anthony and Sophie, dear sister of Michael. Loving relative of many aunts, uncles and cousins. Dear friend to many. She was a paralegal at Morrison, Cohen, Singer & Weinstein after receivi
 MAYER-Ilse, 91 years old. Died on January 10th, 2000 after a brief illness. A pioneer spirit and a true leader, she will shine brightly in the memories of her family: daughter, Marion J. Rosley; son, William D. Mayer; grandchildren, Joan Griffin, Ruth Libin, Deborah Mayer, Sandra Mayer, Ric
 McARDLE-Marguerite A., former Assistant Principal of Washington Irving High School, died at her residence in Sarasota, Florida.       
 OWENS-Rowena (Harwood) of Mystic, CT formerly of Stonington Borough, CT passed away Saturday, January 8, 2000 at home. She was the widow of Louis C. Owens Jr., Vice President of the Bank of New York, and mother of the late Michael Owens. Mrs. Owens was born in New London, CT, lived in New Y
 RAPP-Lina. We extend our sincerest condolences to Bertie Tryfus, Jenny Goldfrank, Karen Ehrenreich, Steven Tryfus and Mark Tryfus on the loss of their beloved mother, sister and grandmother. Throughout her life Mrs. Rapp exemplified the values of kindness, modesty and dignity, and was a tru
 RESNICK-Pearl. The Family of Pearl Resnick gratefully acknowledges the overwhelming expressions of sympathy from the enormous world touched by her.       
 SEGAL-Bernice. Brant Lake Camp notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime colleague and friend. She was a constant support to three generations of Directors staff and campers in her more than 40 years of service.       
 STEINBERG-Lillian. Registered Nurse. Of Nissequogue, New York, and Boca Raton, Florida. Passed away January 9, 2000. Loving mother of Lucille (Howard) Stoll, Stanley (Judy) and Jay (Melanie) Steinberg. Dear sister of Sidney Levine. Dearly loved by all her sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, gr
 Nackey Scripps Loeb, former publisher of two influential conservative newspapers, The Union Leader and The New Hampshire Sunday News of Manchester, N.H., died on Saturday at her home in Goffstown, N.H. She was 75. Her health had deteriorated recently, partly because of complications
 DICKERMAN-Marion LaBau. The last surviving great grandchild of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt and the daughter of Bertha Vanderbilt LaBau and George Morgan Browne Jr., died Sunday, January 9, 2000 at home after a lengthy illness. She was 93 years old. Mrs. Dickerman was a graduate of Vassar
 DOUGHERTY-Mary Frances. (Executive, Bell Atlantic). Embraced eternity in her 52nd year suddenly on January 10, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late Michael J. and Molly (nee McGarry). Loving sister of Michael J. (Joe), John P., Vincent J. (retired Captain NYPD), James F., Gail P., Joan Ryan, 
 ELIAS-Marilyn Denberg Sugarman. On January 11, 2000. Beloved wife of David, cherished daughter of Riva Denberg, loving mother of Jay & David Sugarman, dear sister of Edythe Topelsohn, adoring grandmother of Erica, Andrew, Justin, & Ginger. Devoted motherin-law of Joan and Sue. Service Wedne
 FLIEGEL-Esta (nee Kleinman). Born November 1, 1909. Passed away on January 9th, 2000. She is survived by many nieces and nephews. Interment private.       
 GOLDMAN-Sylvia (nee Leffel). Respected educator and intellect, beloved wife of the late Harry, devoted mother of Michael, Ann, & her husband, Michel Nusimovici, adored grandmother of Emmanuel, Nathalie, Danielle, and Judith. Loving great grandmother of Dov & Liore. Services 1 P.M. January 1
 KASTER-Lillian Sherman. Of Miami Beach, FL. Wife of the late Ben Kaster. Survived by her children, Adrienne Eiseman and Lewis Kaster. Grandmother of Richard Heller, Robin Heller Moss, Stephanie and Rachel Kaster and Patricia Taich. Great grandmother of Ben and Elizabeth Moss. Private funera
 LYONS-Viola. On January 11, 2000 in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Gabriel. Dear mother of Stanley C. and Richard M. Lyons and mother-in-law of Marion and Shirley. Adored grandmother of Eric & Cindy & great-grandmother. Mrs. Lyons was an interior designer in New York City for 60 ye
 MONTEGUT-Simone Ramstein, 77, born and raised in New York City, resident of Somers, New York for the past 10 years and prior to that of Yorktown Heights, NY, passed away on January 10, 2000 after a valiant battle with breast cancer. A Phi Beta Kappa, Magna Cum Laude graduate of Hunter Colle
 POTTER-Nancy Quirk. Of Rumson, NJ, wife of the late Gordon Potter, mother of Elizabeth Riker, Cynthia Slack, William I. Riker, and Alison Friedel. She is also survived by four stepchildren, seventeen grandchildren, & a sister. Services will be held Thursday, January 13, 2000, 11:30 AM. at S
 ROSENBLOOM-Shirley F. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Shirley F. Rosenbloom. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Sidney and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, S
 DAFFNER-Beatrice Ivry Ernst. Age 95. On January 11, 2000. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Naomi and Stuart Paley, Judith and Victor Linn and Howard Ernst. Devoted sister of Billie Ivry. Dear grandmother of Adam and Rachel, Jane and Andrew, Gregory and Lisa and Jason. Greatgrandmother of 
 DOWD-Mary F. On January 11, 2000. Died peacefully in her sleep at home. Mass of Christian Burial, Mother Cabrini Chapel, West 192 Street and Ft. Washington Avenue (NYC) Thursday 10:00 AM. Interment, Gate of Heaven Cemetery.       
 DRESS-Anne, formerly of New York City, on Jan. 10, 2000. Survived by her nephew Carl Cash; grand nephews Kevin Cash and Alan Cash; and grand niece Maryann Cassidy, five great grand nieces and one great grand nephew. A professional concert singer, Anne was the first to sing over the radio to
 HAFT-Dorothy, age 84, of Hackensack formerly of Paterson, NJ. Pre-deceased by her husband Philip in 1998. Survived by her daughter Karen Weisberg, son-in-law Edwin Weisberg and grandson Eric. Services are Friday, 10:15 am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, NJ.      
 HAMMOND-Mildred, age 90, of Mattapoisett died suddenly on January 5 while in London, England on a theatre tour. Miss Hammond, the daughter of Mattapoisett native Joseph I. Hammond and Mary A. Hammond, was born and raised in New York City. As a youth she spent her summers in Mattapoisett. A 
 HUTCHINGSON-Gladys M., (nee Montarcini), on January 11, 2000. Retired employee of Kidder Peabody & Paine Weber at 200 Park Avenue, NY. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Dear sister of Rose Rademacher. Also survived by her cousins Edna & Gloria. Reposing at Leo F. Kearns, 61-40 Woodhaven Blvd.,
 KASTER-Lillian Sherman. Of Miami Beach, FL. Wife of the late Ben Kaster. Survived by her children, Adrienne Eiseman and Lewis Kaster. Grandmother of Richard Heller, Robin Heller Moss, Stephanie and Rachel Kaster and Patricia Taich. Great grandmother of Ben and Elizabeth Moss. Private funera
 MONTAG-May, died peacefully on January 11, at 98 years. Beloved sister of the late Miriam Tannenbaum and Jack Montag, and devoted sister-in-law of Ann Montag. Adored aunt of Toba and Mickey Smith and Jill and Elliot Goldman, and cherished greataunt of Marc and Laurie Smith, Benjamin and All
 REA-Elizabeth (Betty). Former Broadway actress, retired daytime TV casting director and social activist died December 23, 1999 of respiratory failure in Santa Monica, CA, she was 82. She was born Elizabeth Wilson in Montreal to Morris Wilson, President of the Royal Bank of Canada, Chanellor
 ROBINSON-Cary Latimer, of Bal Harbour, Florida, died Saturday, January 8th in Florida. Mrs. Robinson was born in Atlanta, Georgia. She owned and operated Carowill Farm in Cartersville, Georgia. She was preceded in death by her mother, Frances Weinman Luro and her step-father, Horatio A. Lur
 SHAPIRO-Rae. On Jan. 11, 2000. Age 89. Formerly of Brooklyn, Laurelton and Flushing. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. devoted mother of Elaine, Sandra and Marshall. Cherished mother-inlaw, loving grandmother of six and adored great-grandmother of six. Her life's work was her family.       
 SIDRER-Michle. Beloved wife of the late Charles Sidrer. Loving sister to Bernie Tabachnik. Devoted mother of Reva and Mitch Queler and Debby and Arnold Linhardt. Loving grandmother of Adam, Lauren, Andrew and Samantha. Longtime member of the Workmen's Circle. Made the world's best cookies. 
 DAFFNER-Beatrice Ivry Ernst. Age 95. On January 11, 2000. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Naomi and Stuart Paley, Judith and Victor Linn and Howard Ernst. Devoted sister of Billie Ivry. Dear grandmother of Adam and Rachel, Jane and Andrew, Gregory and Lisa and Jason. Greatgrandmother of 
 DREXLER-Lynne Mapp, 71 died December 30, 1999 at her Island home. Born at Newport News, VA, May 21, 1928, educated at Richmond Professional Institute, College of William and Mary and at Hunter College Graduate School. Was a prolific painter, exhibited her work in New York, Los Angeles, Hono
 FREEMAN-Ethel. The Officers and employees of TanenbaumHarber Co., Inc. mourn the passing of a loyal employee and friend. Ethel was a long serving officer of our firm who made a real impact on the lives of all who knew her. We will miss her deeply and express our sincerest condolences to her
 GINGOLD-Evelyn. On January 14, 2000. Survived by her husband Henry and two sons Bruce and Marc. Funeral Services Mon, Jan 17th, Parkside Chapel, 9860 Queens Blvd, corner 66 Ave, Forest Hills, 12:45pm. Contributions may be made to American Cancer Soc.       
 KAHN-Evelyn M. On January 13, 2000. Loving daughter of the late Harris and Rose Kahn and her late brother Murray. Cherished aunt of Richard and Michael Kahn. Devoted friend to Elsie Bercow and Evelyn Wechsler. Donations can be made in Evelyn's name to the Jewish Guild for the Blind, 15 W. 6
 KAPLAN-Shirley F. Of Old Westbury, LI and Jupiter, FL. Born in Worcester, MA. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Linda Kaplan, Deborah Kaplan Brooks, Edward and Barton Kaplan. Cherished mother-in-law of Joel Brooks and Penny Kaplan. Dear sister of Marvin Zebrak and Jeanette Simon of 
 Anne Devenney, the spark plug of community organization who helped keep the tidy, solid neighborhoods of the northwest Bronx from turning into another burned-out urban slum, died Jan. 9 in the Bronx. She was 79. The cause was cancer, her family said. A former resident of Nor
 BACON-Charlotte Robb. Of Batavia, Illinois, formerly of Gilbertsville and East Aurora, New York. Passed away on January 11, 2000. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband, John A. Bacon. Loving mother of John A. Bacon Jr. of Wayne, IL and James E. Bacon of Redding, CT. Survived also by devoted d
 BAKER-Sarah G.. Of Great Neck, NY. Died in her home on December 15, 1999, two weeks before her 95th birthday. Loving wife of the late Samuel A. Baker. Cherished mother of Deborah, of Manhattan, and the late Neil Baker. Adored sister, aunt, and beloved friend. She was an educator, president 
 CONDRON-Wilhelmina Elizabeth. On January 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Thomas J. Devoted mother of Thomas J. Jr. and Elizabeth Jerrilyn. Funeral from the Chas. Peter Nagel, Inc. F.H., 352 E. 87 St, NYC on Monday, January 17 at 9:30AM. Mass of Christian Burial St. Joseph's R.C. Church 1
 EISELE-Carolyn. 98. Died on Saturday, January 15, 2000, after a prolonged illness. She was a renowned scholar for her work on Charles S. Peirce, the great American philosopher and mathematician. She taught at Hunter College of New York, retiring as Professor Emeritus in 1972 after serving f
 FREEMAN-Ethel Wolff. On January 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Arthur R. Daughter of the late Louis and Rae Wolff. Loving mother of Linda (Ted) Lynn and Karen (Jack) Lowe. Adored grandmother of Jessica and Douglas Lynn and Deborah and Adam Lowe. Devoted sister of the late Shirley Cohen 
 KAPLAN-Shirley F.. Of Old Westbury, LI and Jupiter, FL. Born in Worcester, MA. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Linda Kaplan, Deborah Kaplan Brooks, Edward and Barton Kaplan. Cherished mother-in-law of Joel Brooks and Penny Kaplan. Dear sister of Marvin Zebrak and Jeanette Simon of
 LAMSON - Martha. Soprano, Teacher, Artist. Died in Norwalk, CT on Friday, January 14, 2000 at the age of 95. Performed with The Columbia Opera Company of NY in Canada as Gilda in Rigoletto in April & May of 1943; was a member of the Philadelphia LaScala Opera Company for the 1941-42 season;
 MARGOLIN-Lucille (nee Landesberg). Of Flushing, NY on January 8, 2000. Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Debra Fine (Ben), Fran Tepper (Gary). Loving grandmother to Emily, Anthony, Michael and Zachary. Donations in her memory may be made to Calvery Fund, c/o Calvery Hospital, Bronx,
 REYBURN-Blanche (Hershfield). Died on January 14, 2000 at the age of 94. Adored wife of the late Herbert. Loving mother of Patsy and her husband Stanley Tulchin. Grandmother of Jeffrey, Jill and Steven. Proud great grandmother of Gregory, Jessica and Sara.       
 SCHLESINGER-Sylvia. On January 14. Beloved mother and mother in-law of Rita and Herb Krauss, Susan and Martin Zeitz; loving grandmother to David and Suzanne, Jason, Aileen and Charles, Evan and Susan. Wife of the late Joseph. Burial Sunday in Lauderhill, FL; shiva to follow. She will be mis
 WEENOLSEN-Hebe., 93, author of ''The Last Englishman,'' ''To Keep this Oath,'' ''The Forbidden Mountain,'' and ''The Trial of Jennie Sykes,'' died on December 19 in Manhattan. She was preceded in death by her husband, Robert Weenolsen, and her son, Robert Weenolsen, Jr. Surviving are her da
 Catherine M. Rae, a writer who published her first novel at 73, died on Dec. 25 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 85 and lived in Guilford, Conn. Shortly after earning her Ph.D. at 65, Ms. Rae wrote her first book, ''Edith Wharton's New York Quartet,'' a work of litera
 KIVIAT-Leah Aaron Drier. Born London 1902, arrived NY 1912, died January 10, 2000. Her generous spirit and ''golden hands'' will long be remembered by her daughter Isabelle Zakin, son Sherman Drier, granddaughter Nina Zakin Essey, son-in-law James Essey, greatgranddaughter Alexandra Essey a
 LE BOW-Toby. 80. Died Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, cancer, Friday, January 14. She was first wife and lifetime friend of Guy Le Bow, TV talk host. A gifted hair stylist and cosmetician, she owned her own beauty salon and later managed several others. She worked in Democratic and Liberal 
 SCHLESINGER-Sylvia. On January 14. Beloved mother and mother in-law of Rita and Herb Krauss, Susan and Martin Zeitz; loving grandmother to David and Suzanne, Jason, Aileen and Charles, Evan and Susan. Wife of the late Joseph. Burial Sunday in Lauderhill, FL; shiva to follow. She will be mis
 ZELLNER-Hilda. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Marilyn Sherman and family on the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 Zilla Lippmann, a philanthropist and past president of New Dramatists, a Manhattan-based theatrical organization that helps playwrights develop new works, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 95. Mrs. Lippmann, a niece of the Broadway producer John Golden, first worked 
 DREYER - Marion Greene Vaughn. Beloved wife of the late Henry F. Dreyer; loving mother of Stephen V. Dreyer and Meredith Dreyer Doerge; dear grandmother of Geoffrey, Megan, Kevin, Chad, Lindsey and Graham; three great-grandchildren. Her life has inspired us with strength and kindness. We sh
 LANE-Evelyn M. We are saddened upon the passing of our beloved ''Auntie'' Evelyn and extend condolences to our dear cousins, Ellen, Harry, Arielle and Dana Traub of Westport Ct.; and to Janice R. Lane of Boston Ma. A loving wife to her departed husband uncle ''Willie''; a devoted daughter t
 LEWIS-Ebba Finnich. On December 26, 1999 in New York at age 84. Survived by her sister, Else Sackler, grandson, Kenneth Paul Lewis, nieces, Carol Master and Elizabeth A. Sackler and 3 grandnephews and 2 grandnieces. A memorial service will be held at 3pm, on Saturday, January 22 at the Comm
 SMITH-Veronica R. (nee Fredericks). On January 16, 2000 at age 75. Beloved wife of Douglas R. Loving mother of Robin-Ann Carlson and her husband Andrew. Adoring grandmother of Douglas. Dear sister of Gloria Corvi. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday
 SOZIO-Rosetta, age 95, of New York and Rome, died Jan. 14th, 2000 in New York. Beloved by her many friends here and in Italy. In her exemplary generosity, she donated her entire estate to The Servants of Charity (Opera Don Guanella), serving the poor, elderly, and the retarded and to The Ca
 STARK-Ruth. Much loved and ever loving wife; confidante and life-long friend of Morton Stark, died peacefully on Sunday, January 16 after valiantly fighting a variety of ailments for years. Cherished sister of Paula Rabinow. Fond aunt of and role model for Hannah Scherer, Andrew Scherer, Cl
 WEINTRAUB - Rosalind Lester Born 1912 in NYC, passed away on January 15, 2000. A longtime employee of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority. Beloved wife of the late Israel Weintraub. Loving aunt' survived by nieces, nephews, great and great-grand nieces and nephews. A private memorial
 DAFFNER-Beatrice Ivry Ernst. The American Friends of David Yellin College of Education record with sorrow the death of Beatrice Daffner, beloved sister of E. Billie Ivry a strong supporter of the College and member of its Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire
 FLATOW-Fannie. Sadly on Sunday, January 16. Devoted mother of Gerald, beloved aunt and friend to many. She lived for 78 years giving unselfishly to all who knew and loved her. Private services were held on Sunday, January 17.       
 KNOTHE-Doreen Drexel, daughter of the late Louis and Nancy Grayson of Philadelphia died of Leukemia at Delray Beach, FL. on January 13, 2000 at the age of 76. Born in London, England, her family returned to Philadelphia in 1939. She was an active member of the Unity Church and all her life 
 KOTIMSKY-Pauline, member of VID, Honorary Member of GLID. Died January 14th at 5:20 PM at St. Vincent's Hospital. She is survived by her son Robert Katims; her grandchildren Susan, Michael and Jason Katims; and her great grandchildren Mathilde, Ludmila and Sawyer Katims. A Memorial Service 
 LICHTENBERG-Martha. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Devoted mother of Alan, Herb and Trudy. Grandmother of six and great grandmother of 20. A kind and gentle woman, she will be dearly missed. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I., Thursday, 1:30 PM.       
 LOZOWICK-Adele. On January 9. Wife of the late artist Louis. Owner of a frame shop in S. Orange, N.J. Dedicated herself to promoting her husband's work throughout her life. Lifetime member of the Smithson Society, supporter of many museums. Survived by son Lee, grandchildren Lori, Matt and 
 MOHR-Ruth B. The Ackerman Institute for the Family has lost a true friend and cherished colleague. Ruth was a gifted therapist, extraordinary teacher, and valued mentor during her 15 years at Ackerman. She inspired us with her warmth, kindness, humor, and generosity, all of which we will tr
 PARKER-Doris J. Of the Upper West Side, Manhattan. Age 77. Died on January 17th, 2000. The Board, Foundation, staff and residents of Veritas Therapeutic Community, Inc., mourn the loss of our cherished friend and Foundation member. Her abiding belief in Veritas' work inspired her to establi
 SMITH-Veronica R. (nee Fredericks). On January 16, 2000 at age 75. Beloved wife of Douglas R. Loving mother of Robin-Ann Carlson and her husband Andrew. Adoring grandmother of Douglas. Dear sister of Gloria Corvi. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday
 STARK-Ruth. Much loved and ever loving wife; confidante and life-long friend of Morton Stark, died peacefully Sunday, January 16 after valiantly fighting a variety of ailments for years. Cherished sister of Paula Rabinow. Fond aunt of and role model for Hannah Scherer, Andrew Scherer, Claud
 STARR-Patricia Morrill, 81, of Mill Reef, Antigua W.I. and Bernardsville, NJ, died on January 17, 2000. Wife of Ogden P. Starr, mother of Patricia Starr Jones of New Canaan, CT, Ogden P. Starr Jr. of New York City and Michael M. Starr of Antigua. Grandmother of S. Bancroft Jones, Christophe
 STEVENSON-Anne H., 81, died of cardiac arrest in Norwalk Hospital, on January 15, 2000. Mrs. Stevenson, a long term resident of Manhattan, was born in Boston and spent her early life in Cincinnati. She moved to Manhattan in 1965. Always active in artistic and charitable affairs, Mrs. Steven
 WEINSTEIN-Esther Bland. January 17, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Hyman Weinsten, loving stepmother of Steve and Margot, loving cousin of Peter, Richard and Pearl. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the UJA.       
 CATINELLA-Rose. Our beloved mother left us one year ago. We continue to cherish her grace, talent and beauty. Elaine and Joseph       
 Hedy Lamarr, the raven-haired Viennese beauty who became one of the reigning temptresses in Hollywood films in the 1930's and 40's, especially as Delilah vamping Victor Mature's Samson, was found dead in her home in Orlando, Fla., yesterday. She was 86. Miss Lamarr was forever ident
 DENMAN-M.. Dolores, Justice. The Respect for Law Alliance, Inc., notes with deep regret the passing of its Honorary Advisory Council Member on January 17th. Justice Denman, the epitome of judicial temperament, was the Presiding Justice of New York State's Appellate Division in Rochester, NY
 ELLIOTT-Mary Angela Connaghan. Age 84, died on January 18, 2000 at Halifax General Hospital in Daytona Beach, FL. She was a resident of Florida since 1976 after living for many years in Ocean Township, NJ. Mrs. Elliott was born July 28, 1915 to Hannah (Sweeney) and Cornelius Connaghan in Mo
 GRUSKIN-Dorothy Lieberman., 88, on Wednesday, January 19, 2000. Born April 18, 1911 in Pittsburgh, Penn. In 1928 she moved to Brooklyn, N.Y., where she met her husband-to-be, Dr. Samuel Gruskin. They married in June of 1932 and shared a life of 67 years full of travel and wonderful experien
 le BEAU-Madeleine. Daniel, words cannot express our sadness over the loss of your dearest Madeleine. She was the light that shined on you for five wonderful years; a chef, a connoisseur, a lover of life and a life partner. Her warmth and caring will be sorely missed. Stephen and Karen.     
 LICHTENBERG-Martha. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of Martha Lichtenberg, mother of our former Vice President and Treasurer, Alan Lichtenberg. The Lichtenberg family has supported the needs of
 MOHR-Ruth Cabot (nee Bouve). Born February 11, 1930, passed away on January 18, 2000, beloved wife of the late Tom L. Mohr, loving mother of Leslie Griesmer, of Dedham, MA, Claudia Mohr, of New York, NY, Thomas Mohr, of Atlanta, GA, John Mohr, also of Atlanta, GA. Devoted grandmother of Tom
 PARKER-Doris. Civic leader, community activist, friend. We will miss you. Mort and Judy Berkowitz PARKER-Doris. The NWCP Multi Block Assoc mourns the passing of one of its Founders, Doris Parker. She will be greatly missed.       
 Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Her title for many years was simply that of general manager, but Ms. Cage was
 DAYTON-Agnes C. (Callender), 96 years. A resident of Carleton Willard Homes of Bedford, MA. Formerly of Falmouth, MA., Brooklyn Heights, New York, and Twilight Park, Haines Falls, New York, died January 20, 2000. Mrs. Dayton, the widow of George H. Dayton, is survived by her son Bruce M. Da
 ELSTER-Grace (nee Eil), 92, on January 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Sondra Elster Mayer and the late Charles Elster. Devoted grandmother of Jeff Mayer, Jessica Mayer and Jared Elster. Cherished sister of Betty Sonken, the late Max Eil, Harry Eil, Ruth Gross an
 GAUDINO-William Frank. On January 20, 2000 of Valley Stream. Beloved husband of the late Mary. Devoted father of Joyce Monaco, Jane Elson & her husband Barry. Loving grandfather of Dina Berleth, Michael Monaco and Gregory Elson. Cherished great grandfather of four. Dear brother of Mimi Tram
 HARTFIELD-Joan (nee Flesch). Died January 13 in Chicago at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Otto Hartfield, she is survived by her son Robert, a Chicago resident, four granddaughters, Claire, Lisa, Karen and Lynn Hartfield, and seven great - grandchildren. Daughter of the esteemed violinist
 KAMMERER-Edith L. 82, passed away January 16, 2000 in Jacksonville, FL. She is survived by four children, Athleen Zimmermann, William, Hilary and Kelly Kammerer, two brothers, two sisters, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. She is predeceased by her husband, Dr. William H. Kamm
 POMERANTZ-Gloria Levitt. Beloved wife of Norman Pomerantz. Loving mother of Arthur Pomerantz and Carolyn Pomerantz Rosenbaum. Doting grandmother of Jeffrey, Samantha, Taylor and Kaley. Adored sister and aunt of Lyn Tornabene and her daughter Wendylyn.       
 TODD-Ruth Pratt. Age 85, a resident of Redding, CT. since 1965, died January 12, 2000 at her home. She was the wife of the late James Wilson Todd. Memorial service will take place on Sunday, Jan 23 at 2:30PM in Christ Church Parish, Redding Ridge. This will be followed by a reception at the
 ALLEN-Caroline Warwick (nee Kreuttner). Died on January 19 at Medford Convalescent Home, Medford, NJ. Born July 25, 1909 in Washington, D.C. Daughter of Joseph Warwick Kreuttner of Lynchburg, VA. and Caroline Isabelle McAllister of Savannah, GA. She is survived by husband, George Hoffman Al
 EISENBERG-Lillian R. On January 20, 2000 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Dear mother of Nancy & Richard Grabow & Susan & Stanley Simon. Adored grandmother and greatgrandmother. She will be remembered and admired for always striving to be the best she could be. Visitation S
 HOCHSCHWENDER-Mary Cornelia Kelly, 75, died at her home in Tampa, FL, on January 20, 2000. Daughter of Cornelius Francis and Elizabeth Rose Kennedy Kelly of Larchmont, NY, Mrs. Hochschwender graduated from Manhattanville College in 1947. An active leader in community arts and civic orgnaiza
 HORNICK-Lita. On January 21, 2000 at age 72. Academic scholar receiving her Ph.D in English Literature from Columbia in 1958. Publisher of Kulchur Magazine, sponsored 20 years of poetry reading at the Museum of Modern Art. Patron and collector of contemporary paintings and sculpture. Belove
 MOHR-Ruth. The Hunter College School of Social Work mourns the passing of Ruth Mohr. Ruth gave thoughtfully and generously of herself in teaching the art of family therapy to many generations of Hunter students. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and her colleagues at the Ackerm
 PETINA-Irra. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Irra Petina, a stalwart member of our company for 13 seasons between 1933 and 1950. Following her debut as Schwertleite in ''Die Walkuere,'' she sang 38 roles, including Carmen, in 444 performances with our company. She was much admire
 TURKEL - COHEN - Barbara L. Died Friday, January 21, 2000. She was 54. Beloved wife to Nathan Cohen, devoted mother to Theodore & Elizabeth Cohen and sister to Michael Turkel. For further information please call Hellman Memorial Chapels, 914-356-8600.       
 Frances Messersmith Miner, who for 43 years nurtured tulips, radishes and children at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Monday in Utica, N.Y., her brother said. She was 94 and lived in a nursing home in nearby Clinton. Miss Miner learned of the Brooklyn children's garden, the first 
 Margarete Schutte-Lihotzky, an Austrian architect known for her work in Weimar Germany and for being jailed for her role in the Austrian resistance against Nazism, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Vienna. She was 102. Peter Scheifinger, president of an organization of Austrian archi
 BOROCK-Sylvia (nee Goldberg). Died suddenly. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Adored mother of Ella and Albert Platnick, and Jaclyn Borock. Cherished grandmother of Dayna and Andrew Kamiel and Joshua Platnick. Loving G.G. of Casey Nathan Kamiel. Dearest friend and sister to Frances and Gust
 BOTSFORD-Marian Cowles. In loving memory of Marian Cowles Botsford who died peacefully at her home in Santa Fe, NM on December 27th, 1999. She was the widow of Stephen B. Botsford, president of The New Yorker Magazine, who died in 1967; mother of James E. Mitchell and the late Edward E. Mic
 CONNOLLY-Anne K. Age 92, of Boynton Beach, FL; and formerly of New York, died Wednesday morning, January 19, 2000. Mrs. Connolly was retired from the New York Telephone Company, where she was one of the most senior women executives of her day, supervising customer accounts. Her retirement w
 EISENBERG-Lillian R. On January 20, 2000 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis; dear mother of Nancy and Richard Grabow and Susan and Stanley Simon; adored grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be remembered and adored for always striving to be the best she could be. Graves
 FRANKEL-Isabelle Gold (nee Strausser). My loving aunt, confident and friend. A true Aishet Chayil and role model. Her life has been an inspirationn to all. Marion Straus Weiss       
 GUTHRIE-Jane Rogers. Died on January 21 at NY Presbyterian Hospital. The daughter of C.M.A. Rogers and Elisabeth Benson. Formerly of Springhill, AL. She graduated from Sarah Lawrence College and lived in Westchester County, NY where she served as Director of Development for several organiza
 HORNICK-Lita. On January 21, 2000 at age 72. Academic scholar receiving her Ph.D in English Literature from Columbia in 1958. Publisher of Kulchur Magazine, sponsored 20 years of poetry readings at the Museum of Modern Art. Patron and collector of contemporary paintings and sculpture. Belov
 KAPLAN-Muriel. Beloved wife of Sol for 59 years. Died peacefully at home on Friday, January 21, 2000, at age 85. Cherished mother of Susan Silberstein and dear motherin-law of her husband Alan. Adored Mimi to grandchildren Corey Shdaimah and Andrew Silberstein, and their spouses, Michelle a
 LEFFERTS-Kate Carteret. Of St. James, NY. Died at Gladwyne, PA, on January 18, 2000. Aged 88. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College and earned an MFA from NYU. Following service with OSS during World War II, she became an art conservator at the Metropolitan Museum, where she rose to head the
 MARINOFF-Roslyn C. Beloved mother of Gary and Janet, died peacefully in her sleep after a prolonged illness. She will be dearly missed. No service planned; memorial service in the spring.       
 MORRISON-Eleanor Layton, Dr. Died on January 21. She was a Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology at Teachers College, Columbia University for 31 years. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Walbert (Bill) Morrison, her children Dr. Leslie Faerstein and Robert (Mo) Morrison, her children
 NOALL-Eleanor Hepburn, age 95, widow of Hugh Fraser-Noall and distinguished musician of New York City died peacefully on January 18, 2000 at the Willows Harborside Healthcare Center in Woodbridge, CT. Since June 1997 she had made her home with Reverend Sally S. Bailey of West Haven, CT. Ser
 PARKER-Doris. The faculty, staff and candidates of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the passing of our beloved former librarian, Doris Parker. For 25 years, Doris nurtured and raised our candidates and faculty. She will be sorely missed. Robert A
 RIDDLE-Alma R. On January 19, 2000. Daughter of the late James O. Riddle and Adeline Swingle Riddle. Survived by one sister Sara Riddle Lowery of Chattanooga, TN. Graduate of the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga and the Fashion Institute of Technology of NYC. A resident of Manhattan s
 ROSENBLUM-Lila. Died January 19, 2000. Born in Youngstown, OH. December 14, 1925, a New Yorker since 1945. Writer, teacher and psychotherapist since 1975. Diplomate in the American Board of Professional Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis. A fine memoirist herself, her friendship with writers 
 SALIT-Sylvia (nee Knopf). At 90. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Phyllis and Michael. Dearest sister of Eleanor, Miriam, and the late Edith, Lillian and Abraham. Devoted grandmother of Stephen, Frederick, Daniel and David. Great-grandmother of Cami Alexis. Services 10 AM, 
 SEQUEIRA-Juanita. Survived by son Alby, daughter Patricia Blum and her husband Henry Blum, and grandchildren Marc and Randi.       
 WALKER-Natalie Barth. Costume Designer, died Sunday, Jan. 16, 2000 at the age of 77 at Evanston Hospital, Evanston, Ill. Beloved mother of Anne, Wanda and Clare Edward,Jr. Adored grandmother of Clare Edward III and Henry Woo, Jr. A member of the United Scenic Artists, Natalie's distinguishe
 WEISS-Darcia. Died peacefully on January 4, 2000. She was the daughter of the late Cecelia Garblik and Isidore Weiss. Darcia will be remembered for her love of music, gardens, birds, travel, and for the courage she showed through years of illness. A memorial meeting of friends is planned fo
 Hazel Wolf, an ardent environmentalist whose life spanned the 20th century and whose causes encompassed the era's social turmoil, died in Port Angeles, Wash., on Wednesday. She was 101 and lived in Seattle. Since the early 1960's Ms. Wolf was a leader in the Audubon Society, serving
 Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as ''my finest soldier,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 101. Throughout their 27-year marr
 BUCKINGHAM-Virginia K. Age 88, of East Moriches, died on January 20, 2000, at her home. Beloved wife of the late Leroy. Virginia is survived by step-grandsons Mark Patronsky of Wisconsin, Ross Patronsky of Illinois and Neal Patronsky of Arizona, nephews William Kirk of Maryland, Howard Kirk
 CARDO-Clotilda J. of North Valley Stream, NY and Southold, LI on January 23, 2000 at Providence Rest Geriatric Facility . Mrs Cardo is survived by her husband Vito, Sr.; sons Richard (Patricia) of Malverne, NY, and Vito, Jr. (Alice) of Garden City, LI; grandchildren Richard Jr., Alice, Vito
 DENMAN-M. Dolores. The Pattern Jury Instructions Committee of the Association of Supreme Court Justices of the State of New York expresses its grief at the passing of its member, the Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division, Fourth Department on January 17, 2000. The loss to her loving f
 FELD-Isabel. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend and a respected member of the Jewish community, a YU Guardian with her beloved husband, Harold Feld, who is a member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors. Mr. and Mrs. Feld established the Gerald Feld Sc
 GOMBOS-Maria Died January 22, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs Gombos was born in Vienna, Austria and had an extended career in Europe, Australia and the USA with the world's famous cosmetics firm of Helena Rubenstein. She retired as President. She was married to Leslie Gombos who pre-deceased he
 HART-Constance Peters. On January 23, 2000. Loving mother of Frank, Caren Ratcliffe and Tracy Lakow. Adored grandmother of Brandon, Deirdre, Corey, Alixandra, Justin and Courtney. Daughter of the late Charlotte Iverson and Curtis Peters. Sister of the late Peter Arno, cartoonist of The New 
 HORNICK-Lita. The Museum of Modern Art and its Contemporary Arts Council pay tribute to the life of Lita Hornick, who for over 25 years fostered the collaboration of artists and writers through Kulchur Magazine and the sponosorship of poetry readings at the Museum. Her unique spirit, friend
 LIVINGSTON-Cecille Z. ''Gloria''. On January 23, 2000. Loving wife of the late Benjamin. Survived by many loved family and friends. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, 10AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the North Shore Animal League, 25 
 MORRISON-Chelsea Lynn. On January 23, 2000 at age 15. Adored daughter of Carlos and Joanne Morrison. Cherished sister of Thomas James Morrison. Dear granddaughter of Penny Simon and the late George Simon, Dr. Thomas James Morrison and Lydia Morrison. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 ORENS-Sally Frances, on Sunday, January 23, after a long illness. Born in Manhattan, she was a resident of Albany for most of her life until she retired in 1995. She was employed as a librarian in the NYS School System. Wife of the late Dr. Paul Orens, she is survived by her children, Alexa
 RUBENSTEIN-Jean Evans. Died at her home in Lexington, MA. January 20, 2000 attended by her husband Neal and children Elizabeth and David Edward. Born in San Diego, CA., the daughter of Dr. Edward Ellsworth Evans, U.S.N., and Elvira Jeannette Thurlow, both deceased, she grew up in many place
 SCOTT-Ethel (nee McCullough). Known as ''Babs'', formally of New York City, died January 23, 2000. She was the widow of William Rufus Scott. Survivors include a daughter and two sons. A Celebration of her life will be held at the Carriage Barn at Bennington College on Saturday, January 29, 
 SOTTO-Sara (nee Angel), 78. Sara was deeply loved by her late husband Nico, daughter Lisa, brother Michael, granddaughters Rebecca and Arielle, and son-in-law Bruce. She was a uniquely kind and generous woman. We will miss her. SOTTO-Sara. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns th
 Marian Cowles Botsford, a former executive in the fabric-design and  women's wear fields, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Santa Fe. She was 79. She had a long illness, her family said. Mrs. Botsford was born in Buffalo to Edwin Cowles, an engineer and inventor, and Marian Tom
 ALLEN-Irma. Born in Brooklyn, NY in 1929, passed away at age 70 at her home in Tomkins Cove, NY. She is survived by her children, Joe and Nancy of Tomkins Cove, New York, Stu and Kerri of New City, NY; brothers Jerry Ivers and Allen Isacowitz, both of Florida; 5 grandchildren, Christine, Mi
 CAMPUS-Nancy. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern Jr., Rabbi Emeritus       
 CARLTON-Eileen. Age 77. Of Delray Beach, FL. Died January 24, 2000 in New York City. Survived by sister Amy, brother Stanley, children Pamela and William and grandson Christopher. Cherished for her warmth, compassion and sense of humor. She will be sorely missed. Service today, 10AM, Harmon
 CORBING - Ellen. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 HART-Constance Peters. On January 23, 2000. Loving mother of Frank, Caren Ratcliffe and Tracy Lakow. Adored grandmother of Brandon, Deirdre, Corey, Alixandra, Justin and Courtney. Daughter of the late Charlotte Iverson and Curtis Peters. Sister of the late Peter Arno, cartoonist of The New 
 LANE-Helen M. On January 23, 2000 at the age of 102. Devoted wife of the late Justin. Will be sadly missed by her many friends. Services private.       
 LIVINGSTON-Jean, (nee Goodman). Died peacefully on January 1, 2000 in Tacoma, WA. She lived in New York City for many years where she was married to Ned Herzog & later to Charles Rieger with whom she had a daughter Marie Christine. She is survived by her husband Hoyt Livingston and daughter
 MEEKER-Vi. Of Sarasota, FL and Wellesley, MA. Died on Tuesday, January 18, 2000. Beloved wife of John Harbeck Meeker, M.D., mother of J. Harbeck Gill of New York City and Pamela Southmayd Meeker of RI. Grandmother of Nicholas Augustus and Maximilian. Burial at sea. Contributions in her memo
 MINKIN-Emma Lee Min. A wonderful little girl of extraordinary spirit and charm who gave so much joy in such a tragically short time. My deepest condolences to her adoring parents, Betsy and Josh, grandmothers Rosalie and Ruth, Uncle William, Aunt Naomi, and her aunts, uncles and cousins in 
 MORRISON-Chelsea Lynn. On January 23, 2000 at age 15. Adored daughter of Carlos and Joanne Morrison. Cherished sister of Thomas James Morrison. Dear granddaughter of Penny Simon and the late George Simon, Dr. Thomas James Morrison and Lydia Morrison. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 MORRISON-Eleanor B. The Teachers College, Columbia University community mourns the loss of Eleanor B. Morrison, Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and beloved teacher and mentor of students who served the College for 31 years. Her work on the pathology and therapy for adults and childr
 Betty Macdonald Batcheller, the last surviving member of Martha Graham's first dance company, died on Jan. 15 at the Greenwich Laurelton Nursing Home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 92. Ms. Batcheller, who danced as Betty Macdonald, met Graham at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester
 Hsieh Ping-ying, a Chinese feminist author known for her autobiographical work, died on Jan. 5 in San Francisco. She was 93. Miss Hsieh moved to San Francisco in the mid-1970's from Taiwan, to which she had fled from mainland China in 1949. Miss Hsieh ''pioneered the literar
 FELD-Isabel. Congregation Ohab Zedek Manhattan deeply mourns the passing of a loving, charming and generous lady who was our staunch supporter for over five decades. We fondly remember her son Gerald, whom she now joins. To her devoted husband and life partner Harold, daughter Stephanie and
 GROLLMAN-Lorraine., 70, on January 26th, 2000 at her home in Setauket, NY. Beloved wife of Dr. Arthur Grollman. Devoted mother of Nancy Lubin, Donna Goldman and Madelon Finkel. Cherished grandmother of Jesse, Rachel, Wendy Goldman, Alexandra Sopko & Rebecca Finkel. Loving sister of Phyllis 
 KAPLAN-Muriel. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and former longtime member, Muriel Kaplan, who died January 21, 2000. We extend our sincerest sympathies to her family and friends. The Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 NACHMAN-Anne S.. (nee Sugerman) died peacefully on January 23, 2000 after a long illness at the age of 87. A resident of Palm Beach for the past 33 years, Anne formerly was a resident in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Greenville, South Carolina and New York, New York. Anne was devoted to many 
 ROBINSON-Riva. Daughter of the late Robert and Jennie Robinson, on January 25. Much loved sister of Dr. Arthur Robinson of Denver CO and Richard Robinson of NYC, sister-in-law of Mary and Phyllis Robinson, aunt of Jeffrey and Linda Robinson and Nancy Thompson, grandaunt of Samuel, Miriam an
 BOGART-Marie, on January 24, 2000 in New York City. Graphic Production Coordinator for Cahners Business Information. In addition to her talent as a professional writer and graphic artist, Marie was gifted with a glorious soprano voice that she raised to the greater glory of God. Marie's une
 SCHAGRIN-Pearl Glick. Beloved mother, grandmother, sister, aunt. On Wednesday, January 26. Survived by daughter Wendy Davis, son-in-law Gary Davis, grandsons Adam, Brian, Nick; aunts Sylvia Goodzeit and Lillian Weiss and brother-in-law Dr. Alvah Weiss, nephews and nieces. She lived for her 
 SILVERMAN-Sondra Reichman, 63, of West Palm Beach, FL, and formerly of New York. Passed away on Saturday, January 15, 2000. Beloved wife of retired New York City Councilman Theodore Silverman and loving mother of William and Valerie Reichman. She was former New York State Democratic Committ
 Justice M. Dolores Denman, the first woman to serve as presiding judge in the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court, died on Jan. 17 at her second home in Naples, Fla. She was 68 and lived in Buffalo. After struggling with cancer for months, she announced in late Decemb
 HERTZBERG-Ruth Cohen of Bellevue, Washington, died January 25, 2000 at age 74. Survived by her husband, Abraham of Bellevue; daughter, Bizzer (James Hoskins) of Boulder, CO; son, Paul of Baltimore, MD; daughter, Eleanor (Larry Medwin) of Acton, MA and grandchildren, Aaron and Shmoo Medwin. 
 MARTON-Henriette. On January 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Herbert & Margery. Adoring grandmother of Stuart, Irene and Frederic. Great grandmother of David, Andres, Daniel & Daniela. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th S
 ROBERTS-Bettina. Beloved wife of Norman and caring Aunt to Alice and Joe Perez, passed away peacefully on Friday, January 28, 2000. A beautiful woman of grace and great strength who always took the time to be charitable to others. She is also survived by her sister and two brothers. She wil
 SMIALY-Hena. Holocaust Survivor. Devoted wife of the late Szloma. Cherished mother of Sylvia and David Posner. Adored Baba of Rachel and Raphael. Services 12 noon Sun., Jan. 30th at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. Contributions to United States Holocaust Museum, Wash., D.C. 
 TODISH-Helen Rose (nee O'Dair). Age 90, January 27, 2000. Sister of the late Vincent O'Dair of Yonkers, NY and four sisters Regina Patricia Aylward of El Paso, TX, Margie McNally of Scarsdale, NY, Eileen Anne Hilbert of Delray Beach, FL, and Rosemary Kinsey of Daytona Beach, FL. Mother of F
 Margaret Hart Ferraro, a New York stripteaser who went on to become a savvy real estate investor, political wife and society matron in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday after a long illness. She had habitually refused to give her age, but friends said 84 might be close. She was married
 BALLOCH-Mary Chase (Maisie). 80, died January 24, 2000. Beloved wife of (the late) Tony Balloch, who died in 1998. She is survived by her brothers: Seymour Howard of Paris, France and Macauley Howard of Washington, D.C; by her children: Patricia Tuff of Atlanta, GA, Joy Ahrens of Yarmouth, 
 DANZIGER-Mildred. Peacefully on January 28, 2000. Taught for 41 years in Mt. Vernon, NY before retiring to Lake Worth, FL with her beloved Lud. Devoted sister of Pearl Marcus and Mortimer Saretsky. Beloved mother of Gail and Ed Sakaguchi, Rita and Howard Kashner. Adored grandmother of Andre
 JOSEPH-Morgan, 75, died on Tuesday, January 25, 2000. She was the widow of Richard Joseph. Morgan lived in New York City and Goshen, CT. She was a world traveler with her late husband who was the Travel Editor for Esquire Magazine. She owned Dick's Old Curiosity Shop in Goshen. She is survi
 MARTON-Henriette (nee Rapaport). On January 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Herbert & Margery. Adoring grandmother of Stuart, Irene and Frederic. Great grandmother of David, Andres, Daniel & Daniela. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:45 AM at ''The Rive
 MERVIS-Florence. Retired Personnel Director for Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. She also served honorably as a First Sergeant in the Women's Army Corps in World War II. Loving sister of Ruth (Jack) Roper, Gertrude Mervis and the late Irwin Mervis. Services Sunday, 1 PM, at New Montefio
 ROBERTS-Bettina. Beloved wife of Norman and caring Aunt to Alice and Joe Perez, passed away peacefully on Friday, January 28, 2000. A beautiful woman of grace and great strength who always took the time to be charitable to others. She is also survived by her sister and two brothers. She wil
 TODISH-Helen Rose (nee O'Dair). Age 90, January 27, 2000. Originally from NYC, lived in Belleville, NJ. Wife of the late Nicholas Francis Todish. Sister of the late Vincent O'Dair of Yonkers, NY and four sisters Regina Patricia Aylward of El Paso, TX, Margie McNally of Scarsdale, NY, Eileen
 YARFITZ-Evelyn. Died January 24, 2000 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Leo. Loving mother of Joan and Stuart Yarfitz and Denise Pierre. Dear motherin-law of Trudi Fajans and Marc Pierre. Treasured grandmother of Miriam Yarfitz, Daniel Fajans, Evan, Jenna and Christoph Pierre. Ador
 Victoria A. Fromkin, an internationally renowned linguist who gathered the flotsam of human discourse -- slips of the tongue, mishearings and other speech errors -- and used it to illuminate the way in which language is organized in the mind, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. She was 76.     
 CLARK-Anna H. The officers and members of the LaGuardia Memorial Association mourn the loss of a loyal aide to Mayor LaGuardia and for 50 years a dedicated and dignified advocate on city and local issues. She will be missed. Morton B. Lawrence, Secretary       
 ROBERTS-Bettina. The American-Israeli Lighthouse and its affiliate chapters mourn the passing of their dear friend and benefactor Bettina Roberts, beloved wife of Norman Roberts. Her devotion and dedication to our work for Israel's blind will be greatly missed. They made possible the establ
 SOWCHEK-Olga. Died peacefully Thursday, January 27, at home in her own bed at the age of 89. She is survived by her daughter Ellen, three granddaughters and three great-grandsons. She lived a long life and will be greatly missed.       
