 HOROWITZ--Diana Cooper, in her 107th year, died on April 26th in Ridgewood, NJ. Mother to David, aunt to Deborah Eigen Graifman, her husband Gary and son, Michael. Wife of the late Herman. Born in Philadelphia to Dora and Samuel Cooper. Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania. Her 50 yea
 MESSELOFF--Lillian Vivian Levinson, wife of the late Charles R. Messeloff M.D., died peacefully on May 30, 2007. She was a devoted mom to Alice Fraenkel and Reva Greenberg, a loving motherin-law, supportive and concerned grandma and sweet, caring great-grandma. Her family will miss her. Oct
 SPIGNER--Christine E. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Queens Library mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague. She was a tireless advocate for literacy and strengthened Queens Library with her leadership. She served as a library Trustee from 1980 until her death and was Board
 JEFFERY--Hannah McIntyre, 85, of Randolph, VT, wife of the late Bob Jeffery (U.S. Naval Academy 1940) died May 30, 2007. She leaves her two daughters, Cindy and Nan and their families. Online condolences may be left at www.dayfunerals.com.       
 NEUWIRTH--Richard Samuel, on May 29, 2007, at age 75, of Fort Lee, NJ, and Boca Raton, FL. Husband of Eileen, father of Shelby and her husband Doug, grandfather of Dylan Ryan, brother of Enid. Treasurer of Testrite Instruments, Inc., Hackensack, NJ. Member of Montammy and Broken Sound Count
 ROSENTHAL--Dr. Mitchell, on Thursday May 31, 2007, age 58 of Basking Ridge, NJ. Devoted husband of Peggy, loving father of David and Michelle, brother of Clifford, son of Edythe. For information, contact the Menorah Chapels at Millburn, NJ (908) 964-1500. $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Rosalin (Roz), at t
 BILOON--Sandra, of South Main St., West Hartford, Connecticut, died Friday, June 1, 2007. She was predeceased by her husband, Harold Biloon, and by her parents, Morris and Helen (Antler) Green. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Radcliffe College, Harvard University and a Master 
 BONNEVILLE--Nancy Schneider, 1953-2007. Beloved wife of David Bonneville, devoted mother of Rebecca and Noah Bonneville, cherished daughter of Leila and the late Joseph Schneider. Elder sister to Hallie, Emily and Adam. Nancy was a native New Yorker, and a graduate of SUNY Binghampton. Her 
 COOK--Dawn Mather, of Boston, age 71, died at home on May 10, 2007, of a brain tumor after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Donald Alexander Cook. She was born in New York City to Andrew Youngberg of Sweden and Eugenie Mather. Beloved mother of Constance, Malcolm and Allison. Belove
 GAYDOS--Eve. The Staff and Graduates of Gestalt Associates for Psychotherapy announce a memorial for our dear friend and colleague, to be held on June 9th, at 10:30am-1pm, at Pilgrim Hill in Central Park, 5th Ave between 72nd/73rd St. We will celebrate Eve's love of color, music, movement, 
 GOICHMAN--Sarah, on June 1, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Harry, loving mother of Larry, dear sister to Leah Gelfman, adoring grandmother of Samuel and Jesse Eisenberg, great-grandmother of Shea Darby. Sarah was a gifted artist/sculptress, having studied at the Art Students League for many
 HAKES--Martha Jean. March 6, 1930-May 24, 2007. Jean Hakes lived and worked in New York from 1964 to 1989. She died peacefully on Thursday, May 24, 2007 at her home in San Francisco at the age of 77. Ms. Hakes, born in Muscatine, Iowa, was the dear daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Clifford
 HALPERN--Hilda (nee deVries). Most dearly beloved wife of the late Sigmund Halpern, loving mother of Susan, Jerry, Pam, grandmother of Stephen, Joshua and Michael, aunt of Ruth Gideon and David Gandell. She's in our hearts today and everyday. Funeral June 4, Gutterman's Funeral Home 175 Nor
 HENKEL--Joan, 80, died June 1 at her Rutherford, NJ home. She graduated from the University of Pittsburgh. She taught kindergarten in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Her husband Robert, owner of the Secaucus Home News, predeceases her. Her children Peter, Christopher, Heidi Leyh and Gretchen, 
 HOROWITZ--Diana Cooper, in her 107th year, died on April 26th in Ridgewood, NJ. Mother to David, aunt to Deborah Eigen Graifman, her husband Gary and son, Michael. Wife of the late Herman. Born in Philadelphia to Dora and Samuel Cooper. Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania. Her 50 yea
 McGOWAN--Bertha, fondly known as the Dutchess of Chelsea, passed away at 96 on May 31, 2007. Predeceased by children Paul and Matilda, grandmother of five grandsons Jeffrey (Kim), Fred (Monique), Seth (Kathy), Karl (Kit) and Keith (Angelika). Proud great-grandmother of Ethan, Jacob, Jack, B
 SOMMER--Terry. Beloved wife of Arty for 63 plus years, passed away May 30, 2007. Devoted mother of Van and Meryl and Gregg (deceased). Fun-loving grandmother of Brette and Drew, Kirk and Chloe. Playful grandmama to Ryan and Brooke. Special pal to her most caring companion and aide, Judith. 
 STEINBERG--Ethel Stoller, 84, resident of Delray Beach, FL, widow of Ted Steinberg; beloved sister of Adeline and Edward Glassman; beloved mother of Leslie Platto, Charles Platto, Marc Stoller and Lenore Rey, Bruce and Kelly Stoller; Lyle and Wendy, Spencer and Paula, Glen, Mary, Vicki and 
 TUNICK--Mildred. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of an extraordinary lady who along with her late beloved husband Stanley were Founders of the College and helped advanced research in Ophthalmology. We extend our deepest condolences to her son
 FELSEN--Esther. June 3, 1921 -June 28, 1998. Nine years gone, but never forgotten. Always loved. Her loving family       
 HASEN--Charlotte Binger on June 1st, 2007 in New York City. Beloved wife of George, loving mother of Louisa Mattson, John Hasen and Elizabeth Hasen. Also survived by four grandchildren and by her sister, Frances Mitchell, and brother, Bronson Binger. A past president of the City Gardens Clu
 KLEINMAN--Ruth.Loving wife, mother and grandmother passed away May 30th in Las Vegas, NV. She is survived by her loving husband Alvin, her daughters, Judi, Barbara, and Shari; and her grandchildren Scott, David, Joshua, Abbi, and Ariel.       
 SOMMER--Terry. Beloved wife of Arty for 63 plus years, passed away May 30, 2007. Devoted mother of Van and Meryl and Gregg (deceased). Fun-loving grandmother of Brette and Drew, Kirk and Chloe. Playful grandmama to Ryan and Brooke. Special pal to her most caring companion and aide, Judith. 
 KELLER--Adelaide. The beloved wife of George for 60 years; mother of Bill, Bob and Barry; grandmother to Anna, Matt, Danny, Tom, Molly and Alice; sister of William T. McCague and mother-in-law to Maureen, Lynda and Emma passed away peacefully at the age of 84 just after midnight on Saturday
 GREENBERG--Bella. Died at 92, beloved sister of Gertrude, Anne and Rose. Adored ''Aunt Bert'' to her nieces and nephews. Once known as ''The famous Miss Greenberg'' at the NYC Teachers retirement system. One of the kindest people to ever walk this earth.       
 HILL--Hildi, 81, on June 3rd, 2007 in New Rochelle, NY. Loving wife of the late Berkley H. Hill Jr., mother of Audrey G. Kubie and the late Corinne G. Dickinson, grandmother of four and greatgrandmother of two, sister of Theodore Beckhardt. She will be in the thoughts and hearts of all thos
 REED--Constance Culbertson Feeley. Beloved wife of Henry Hope Reed, died peacefully on May 30th, 2007. She was the daughter of Brigadier General USMC James A. Feeley. Graduate of Punahou School, Honolulu and Stanford University, Class of 1953. Reporter for The Washington Post and short stor
 SAINER--Janet S. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Brookdale Foundation Group extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Janet Sainer. We had the privilege of working with Janet over the last 17 years and are so grateful for her wisdom and guidance in developing programs for older p
 STEINBERG--Ethel Stoller, 84, resident of Delray Beach, FL, widow of Ted Steinberg; beloved sister of Adeline and Edward Glassman; beloved mother of Leslie Platto, Charles Platto, Marc Stoller and Lenore Rey, Bruce and Kelly Stoller; Lyle and Wendy, Spencer and Paula, Glen, Mary, Vicki and 
 BIGGER--Nora K. (Stewart). Age 93, of Mt. Lebanon, on Monday, June 4, 2007; formerly of Flemington, NJ, where she was a children's librarian. Born in Hamilton, Ontario, Nora was the beloved wife of the late Richard Paul Bigger, loving mother of Elizabeth J. Bigger, Sarah K. Burton, H. Stewa
 LITT--Ann Selkowitz On May 30th, 2007, devoted wife and loving mother, Ann Selkowitz Litt, passed away suddenly. Ann was a nationally known nutritionist who helped children and adolescents with eating disorders and assisted developing athletes in reaching their full potential. Ann was the n
 MAILMAN--Virginia S. PEN American Center is enormously saddened by the loss of esteemed trustee and generous friend, Virginia S. Mailman. Virginia joined the Board in 2003, serving on the Board Executive Committee and as Co-Chair of the annual PEN Literary Gala benefit. Coming to New York a
 SAINER--Janet. The finest of social workers and pioneer in services to older people, Janet's legacy will be felt for years to come. Barbara Silverstone and Ann Burack-Weiss $(6$)SAINER--Janet. With great sadness the NYC Department for the Aging mourns the passing of Janet Sainer. Sh
 SCHULMAN--Blanche. On June 5th, 2007 at 95 years. Social worker, teacher, homemaker extraordinaire. Devoted to her children, Susan, Steve, and Carol, her grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, and sister. Services June 7th, 11am, Hellman Chapel, Spring Valley, NY.       
 SUCCOSO--Florence (nee Lombardi), on June 4, 2007. Cherished wife of Joseph, treasured mother of Janet(Brian Wright), Marian and the late Grace. Loving grandmother of Jessica (Craig Baldenhofer), Rachel (Sean Kendell) and Joseph Wright. Reposed at Papavero Funeral Home 72-27 Grand Avenue, M
 BRIGHENTI--Laura, born October 2, 1954, Desio, Italy; died New York City, April 27, 2007, after a painful battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Peter Homel and devoted mother of William, she will be greatly missed by family, friends, and colleagues. No flowers: contribute to a cause fighting 
 CAMPBELL--Lady Jeanne, died June 4, 2007, at the age of 78. She is survived by her daughters Kate Mailer and Cusi Cram, and her granddaughter Natasha Annabelle Lancaster. We will gather at 9AM, Saturday, June 9, at Perazzo's Funeral Home, 199 Bleeker St. Mass to follow at 10:30AM at St. Jos
 COOK--Dawn Mather, of Boston, age 71, died at home on May 10, 2007, of a brain tumor after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Donald Alexander Cook. She was born in New York City to Andrew Youngberg of Sweden and Eugenie Mather. Beloved mother of Constance, Malcolm and Allison. Belove
 GROSS--Susannah D., devoted mother of Seth and Stephanie Andrew, spent her life serving others. A memorial on Friday at 2pm will be held at Plaza Jewish Chapel with Shiva at 2pm on Sunday at 875 WEA. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Democracy Prep Social Work Fund will memorialize her c
 LITT--Ann Selkowitz On May 30th, 2007, devoted wife and loving mother, Ann Selkowitz Litt, passed away suddenly. Ann was a nationally known nutritionist who helped children and adolescents with eating disorders and assisted developing athletes in reaching their full potential. Ann was the n
 McGRATH--Camilla, died on May 24, survived by her husband of 44 years, Earl McGrath, and 2 sisters Laetitia and Viviana Pecci Blunt. Mass will be held on Thursday, June 14th, at 11am. St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Avenue.       
 MURRAY--Margaret Arnette (Maggie), on June 4, 2007. Beloved wife of Stephen Botkin; devoted mother of Hannah; loving daughter of the late Arthur and the late Charleen Murray; loving niece of Margaret Paris and Frank Murray. A native New Yorker was educated at the Marymount School and earned
 SAINER--Janet. Council of Senior Centers and Services has lost a dear friend, mentor and visionary. As a longtime Board member, she set the standard to which we all aspire. We will miss her leadership, enthusiasm, wisdom, and grace. William Dionne, CSCS President Igal Jellinek, CSCS Executi
 SHULMAN--Alice. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Alice Shulman and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Walter, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President       
 Janet S. Sainer, who as commissioner of New York City's Department for the Aging in the 1980s created programs to keep older people active, educate them on health issues, provide them with meals on weekends and help their caregivers, died Monday while attending a training conference on the 
 ALPERN--Gertrude. Loving wife of the late Paul; devoted mother of Roberta Schwartz, Lewis, and Jonathan, cherished sister of Adele Shapiro; adored grandmother and great - grandmother. She passed on June 6th after a long and fruitful life.       
 CRYSTAL--Miriam, on June 6, 2007, in her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Richard and Lewis, and mother-in-law of Carole and Brigitte. Dear sister of Alfred Goldblatt, and sister - in - law of Phyllis. Adored and loving grandmother of Meredith, Ian, Lara, Jessi
 McGRATH--Camilla, died on May 24, survived by her husband of 44 years, Earl McGrath, and 2 sisters Laetitia and Viviana Pecci Blunt. Mass will be held on Thursday, June 14th, at 11am. St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Avenue.       
 MURRAY--Margaret Arnette (Maggie), on June 4, 2007. Beloved wife of Stephen Botkin; devoted mother of Hannah; loving daughter of the late Arthur and the late Charleen Murray; loving niece of Margaret Paris and Frank Murray. A native New Yorker was educated at the Marymount School and earned
 O'HANLON--Rosemary A., of Chappaqua, NY, died June 7, 2007. Rosemary, age 62, was a resident of Chappaqua for 30 years, and a member of The Church of St. John & St. Mary. She is survived by her husband Edward P. O'Hanlon, her children, Joan O'Hanlon Curry and Ted O'Hanlon; her grandchildren
 SAINER--Janet S. The NYC Family Caregiver Coalition expresses deepest sympathy to the family of our founding member and mentor, Janet S. Sainer. Each of us has been greatly enriched by her wisdom, her kindness, her largess, her knowledge, her creativity and her generosity of spirit and love
 BOROUMAND--Shahla, age 54, devoted wife, mother and friend, passed away at North Shore University Hospital on Thursday, June 7, 2007, following a courageous battle with brain cancer. Shahla was born April 12, 1953, in Tehran, Iran to Mohammad Taghi Boroumand and Moloud Shariat. Throughout h
 DREYER--Doris S. A pillar of strength, wisdom and kindness. Devoted wife, mother, sister and grandmother. She will be missed by all who knew her. Services Sunday, June 10th, 10:30am at Plaza Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Parkinson's Disease
 HABER--Alan, NCJW, NY Section mourns the passing of Alan Haber. Husband of Carol Haber our esteemed Board member and past Vice President. Sincerest condolences to all her family. Beatrice Kahn, Co-President Beth Mitchell, Co-President Judith R. Golub, Executive Director       
 KAHAN--Lillian (Gitlin), 85, of Springfield, MA, died Thursday at home. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her. She was predeceased by her husband of 60 years, Herbert Kahan, in 2003. She is survived by her children Mark (Linda) Kahan of Silver Spring, MD, Robert (Candace) Kahan of L
 SOL--Helen. We mourn the passing of Helen Sol, on June 8, 2007. A woman of strength and intelligence who loved her family. She will be missed by her two sons, Jeffrey (Simin) and Richard (Roberta), two grandchildren, Adam (Yael) and Felicia and her three great - grandchildren, Avishai, Eli 
 STIEVELMAN--Harriet. We will miss our sweet and gentle friend. Ellen and Mort Silver $(6$)STIEVELMAN--Harriet. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend Harriet Stievelman. Our condolences to Jack and the family. Bud & Denny Steiner $(6$)STIEVELMAN--Harriet. We deeply mour
 Sheila Ballantyne, a critically praised novelist whose work ranged over death, deception and family life -- more often than not, these were all of a piece -- died on May 2 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 70. The cause was multisystem atrophy, a degenerative neurological dise
 ARNDT--Bess R. Died peacefully on June 9th, in her 96th year. Beloved mother of Carol Wolfe of NYC, beloved grandmother of Jessica Lynn Wolfe of Durham, NC, loving mother-in-law of Steven W. Wolfe, loving grandmotherin-law of Reid Barbour and sister of the late Alan Zuker. She was happily m
 COLMORE--Mary Virginia ''Ginny'' (nee Thomas), former long-term resident of Bedford Hills, NY, died peacefully at the Essex Meadows Health Center on May 30 in Essex, CT. She was 94. Mrs. Colmore was married to the late Dr. Henry P. Colmore. She is also survived by two daughters, Julia Colmo
 DREYER--Doris, widow of Harvey, who served for many years as Chair of our Board of Overseers, and who herself was a loyal friend of Hunter Brookdale. All of us join in mourning her death. Suzanne Santry, Chair, The Brookdale Center for Healthy Aging and Longevity for the Board and Staff    
 GOLDENTHAL--Janice Berkowitz, Ph.D., died on May 26th, 2007 at the age of 82. She received her B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. degree's at New York University. A beloved Professor of English Literature at Fairleigh Dickinson University, Rutherford, NJ, Janice was a devoted teacher, and an inspiring ro
 HAKES--Martha Jean. March 6, 1930-May 24, 2007. Jean Hakes lived and worked in New York from 1964 to 1989. She died peacefully on Thursday, May 24, 2007 at her home in San Francisco at the age of 77. Ms. Hakes, born in Muscatine, Iowa, was the dear daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Clifford
 HALDEN--Ilse, loving wife of Fred, beloved mother of Peter and Judith, favorite mother-in-law of Lillian and Noel, devoted grandmother of Daniel, Matthew, Mariel and BJ, loving sister of Marion Kaiser and the late Charlotte Straus, from complications of a stroke on June 8, 2007. Also surviv
 LEVIN--Susan, age 65, of Los Angeles, died in NYC on June 5. Survived by her loving husband Richard Levin. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory may be made to The Brotherhood Synagogue, Care of Rabbi Daniel Alder, 28 Gramercy Park South, NY, NY 10003.       
 LITT--Ann Selkowitz. On May 30th, 2007, devoted wife and loving mother, Ann Selkowitz Litt, passed away suddenly. Ann was a nationally known nutritionist who helped children and adolescents with eating disorders and assisted developing athletes in reaching their full potential. Ann was the 
 NORWEB--Elizabeth Gardner. The Officers and Directors of The Garden Club of America express deep sorrow on the death of their former President, Elizabeth (Libby) Gardner Norweb, and extend deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Libby served The Garden Club with great distinction, as it
 ROBOHM--Dorothy Bauer, M.D., 97, died peacefully in her sleep, on March 20, 2007, in Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Bauer, practiced medicine in Richmond Hill, Queens, and Southold, New York, with her husband, Dr. Claus H. Robohm, for nearly four decades. Dr. Robohm predeceased her in 1993. Dr. Bauer 
 SOL--Helen. We mourn the passing of Helen Sol, on June 8, 2007. A woman of strength and intelligence who loved her family. She will be missed by her two sons, Jeffrey (Simin) and Richard (Roberta), two grandchildren, Adam (Yael) and Felicia and her three great - grandchildren, Avishai, Eli 
 STEINBERG--Ethel Stoller, 84, resident of Delray Beach, FL, widow of Ted Steinberg; beloved sister of Adeline and Edward Glassman; beloved mother of Leslie Platto, Charles Platto, Marc Stoller and Lenore Rey, Bruce and Kelly Stoller; Lyle and Wendy, Spencer and Paula, Glen, Mary, Vicki and 
 FRIEDLANDER--Arlene. My glamorous mother and best friend passed away peacefully on June 7th, 2007 after a brief illness. Her passion for living led her places she scarcely could have imagined as a child. A public relations executive, actress, lover of theater and the arts, tennis fan, bridg
 ARNDT--Bess R. Died peacefully on June 9th, in her 96th year. Beloved mother of Carol Wolfe of NYC, beloved grandmother of Jessica Lynn Wolfe of Durham, NC, loving mother-in-law of Steven W. Wolfe, loving grandmotherin-law of Reid Barbour and sister of the late Alan Zuker. She was happily m
 CASALE--Ann Grimshaw, artist, died in Sag Harbor on May 7, 2007 at the age of 78. A remarkable woman who believed in herself and her ability to achieve whatever she reached for. She gave birth to ten children in thirteen years. A gifted and provocative painter, primarily in watercolor and o
 JAMESON--Paula, June 8, Arlington, VA. She gave life, and us, her all. Survivors include sons, Paul Andrew and Peter Carver. Services June 12, 3 pm, Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Washington, D.C.       
 MONDANILE--Eileen, on June 8, 2007, in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late Matthew, devoted mother to the late Joan. Dear mother of Matthew and mother-in-law of Nancy. Adored and loving grandmother to Matthew Anthony and Margaret Marie. Services: Feeney Funeral Home, Ridgewood, NJ.     
 Amy Sullivan, who as executive director of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., restored the finances of an institution long known for discovering significant playwrights early in their careers, died Sunday at her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 54. The cause was c
 Lee Nagrin, a noted Off Broadway performance artist, director and member of Meredith Monk's theater company, The House, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was colon cancer, said Barbara Busackino, a colleague. Ms. Nagrin performed with Ms. Monk from 1971 to 19
 FINK--Ronni. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 FRIEDMAN--Norma. Cherished wife of Morris, beloved mother of Ruth and Philip, died peacefully at home on June 10th after a long bout with Alzheimer's. She was a fashion writer who spent a decade at Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. Dedicated to community service, she volunteered for many years at 
 GOLDEN--Jean Stanley. Born in Calgary, Canada and raised in Portland, Oregon, Jean died peacefully at home June 6, 2007. Beloved of the late Myron. She was greatful for the care and comfort she received from her caregivers Rose, Joyce, Laurette, Kade, Ann and Jack, and her cat, Daisy, and f
 ORTA--Awilda, died peacefully at 1:45am on June 8, 2007. A nationally recognized Puerto Rican educator, she served the children of New York City for over 40 years. She will be greatly missed. Wake: Ortiz, 4425 Broadway at 190th, (212)942-3700. Details of wake and funeral pending. In lieu of
 SCHEIBE--Kaete Loebhardt. Kaete Scheibe, 95, of Syracuse, passed away Sunday morning, June 10, 2007. Kaete was born in Germany and immigrated to the United States in 1936. She lived in Manhattan until 2004 when she moved to Syracuse. An independent woman with a spirited personality, Kaete a
 SILVERS--Lainie Zee. Died peacefully after a long illness on June 10th. Daughter of the late Ruth and Eugene Zee. Beloved niece of Charlotte and the late Herbert Wool. She will be missed by her aunt, friends, and many caring cousins. Services will be held Tuesday, 10:45am at ''The Riverside
 STENTIFORD - Ina, died peacefully on June 11, in her 69th year. Beloved wife of Chuck, loving Mother to Heather and Debbie, loving Sister to Alan and Gary, devoted Grandmother to Max, Hannah, Sophie, Carly and Samantha, cherished mother-in-law to Richard and Jeffrey. Ina was an accomplished
 TAMA--Phyllis. Beloved sister of Francine and Michael. She will be dearly missed. Joan and David Mandel       
 BLECHER--Wilma S. (nee Tashlick), January 21, 1915 June 11, 2007. Dearly beloved wife of the late Milton; adored mother of Susan; sonin-law Bill, and Jane; cherished sister of Lillian (Leonard) and the late Freda; dearly loved daughter of the late Sarah and Morris; deeply loved aunt and cou
 CARMILLY - Rhoda. Died June 10th, 2007, at the age of 93. She was the beloved wife of Moshe Carmilly and devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was president of the New York Chapter of Hadassah, president of the Women's Organization of Congregation Shearith Israel and active
 FRIEDMAN--Norma. Cherished wife of Morris, beloved mother of Ruth and Philip, died peacefully at home on June 10th after a long bout with Alzheimer's. She was a fashion writer who spent a decade at Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. Dedicated to community service, she volunteered for many years at 
 GRACE--Sylvia Myerson. She was a force of nature who impacted all who knew her. Her philosophy was ''It will all work out'', and my dear mother, it all did. Michelle       
 ROBIN--Wilma. Wilma was the daughter of Edwin J Robin (architect) and Isabel Abeles Robin (weaver and fabric designer). She was the sister of Rosemary Robin Kaplan and sister-in-law of Seymour Kaplan, aunt of Sara, Daniel and Matthew. Greataunt of Jacob, Robin, Amy and Jesse. Wilma was a gr
 LIVINGSTON--Elaine, died peacefully of heart failure on June 10 in Tucson, AZ, in her 90th year. She is survived by her husband, Anthony Austin, her daughter and son-in-law, Laura and Gary Gibson, and by her three grandchildren, Katie and Jenna Gibson and Alexander Livingston.       
 SULLIVAN--Amy P., 54, of 43 Coult Lane, Old Lyme, CT died peacefully at her home June 10, 2007 surrounded by her family after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Wife of Bruce R. Josephy. Mother of Dan W. Sullivan. Born in Newark, NJ on March 31, 1953; daughter of Catherine Zizza Sull
 Nellie Lutcher, a singer and pianist who had a string of rhythm-and-blues hits in the late 1940s and continued performing into the early 1990s, died last Friday in Los Angeles. She was 94. Her death was confirmed by her son, Talmadge Lewis of Concord, Calif. Ms. Lutcher's ca
 DOBKIN--Irma Laufer, 63, of New York City, on June 14, after a tenacious two and a half year battle with cancer. Devoted widow of the late James A. Dobkin, she was the wise, loving and vibrant head of her own family and as well that of her late sister Natalie Grumet, while building an inter
 ENZER--Esther Markman, died June 12, 2007, the Founding Curator of the Yiddish Theater Section of the Museum of the City of New York. Born January 27, 1914 to Sam and Eva Markman in Brooklyn. Preceding her in death: Milton Michael Enzer, husband, founding Director of Public Relations, Yale 
 GALLUP--Prudence, gifted therapist. Pru's loving partner Leanne Lipston, her adoring friends, Ed, Joel, Harry, Joanne, Sue, Abby, Suzanne, Roxanne, Joan and Linda deeply mourn her passing. Her love, humor, intelligence and unique presence in our lives will never be replaced.       
 KIMMEL--Laura, age 88 of Washington, D.C. died on Thursday, June 14, 2007 at Georgetown University Hospital of pneumonia. Born on August 11, 1918 in Lvov, Poland, Laura Kimmel survived the World War II Holocaust. She and her husband, Dr. Alfred Kimmel immigrated to New York City in 1949. Sh
 LAYZELL--Natalie Ann, on June 7, 2007. Beloved mother of Marianne Miller of New York, and thoughtful friend to many, Natalie retired from The New York Times at the end of 2006 after a 40-year career there and at The International Herald Tribune, where she served for many years as the New Yo
 BONCOMPAGNI--Laetitia (Princess). It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of Laetitia Boncompagni of Rome, Italy on June 11, 2007. A deeply beloved member of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art since 1977, she was a Vice President whose enthusiastic and vital 
 Ruth Bell Graham, the Rev. Billy Graham's wife and confidant who for more than 60 years devoted herself to his career as the 20th century's most enduring evangelist, died yesterday at her home in Montreat, N.C. She was 87. Her death was announced by a spokesman for Mr. Graham. She h
 Claudia Cohen, a high-profile gossip reporter for television and newspapers who was a frequent subject of the gossip columns herself, partly because of her marriage to, and remunerative divorce from, the billionaire businessman Ronald O. Perelman, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 56 and
 Juanita Swedenburg, a Virginia winery and vineyard owner who in 2005 won a battle in the United States Supreme Court to tear down protectionist barriers that kept wineries from shipping directly to consumers in other states, died June 9 at her home in Middleburg, Va. She was 82. The
 Julie Thoma Wright, a founder and co-owner of Wright, the Chicago auction house that helped create the market for 20th-century modern design, died on Monday in Chicago. She was 49. The cause was colorectal cancer, her husband, Richard Wright, said. Ms. Thoma Wright, an inter
 APTER--Adlyn Liman, 93, of Harrisburg, PA. Formerly of Hewlett, NY and Lake Worth, FL. Passed away June 15, 2007. She was the beloved mother of Peter Liman (Reggie), Linda Herman (Lewis) and Vicki Apter (David). Cherished grandmother, great-grandmother and auntie. Her love of life, magnetic
 BLUA--Elisabeth Farnum Green, 86, died after a long illness in Charlottesville, VA, on June 7, 2007. She was a graduate of Foxcroft School, Barnard College, and New York School of Interior Design. She is survived by her husband of 40 years, Piero Blua, of Charlottesville, two sons, Richard 
 COHEN--Claudia. We extend our deepest sympathies to Harriet and Robert Cohen and our son-in-law and brother-in-law James on the loss of their daughter and sister, Claudia. The Sprung Family $(6$)COHEN--Claudia. The Board of Directors of the Food Allergy Initiative mourns the loss of our dea
 DAVIS--Doris Rosenbaum (Dee Dee), 87, author and artist extraordinaire, died peacefully at home on June 14th. Her loving and beloved children, Laurie Gilkes and Peter Davis, her adored and adoring grandchildren Amy Gilkes Loe and Conner Davis, and her dear grandson-in-law Brad Loe miss her 
 FISHELSON--Dorothy of East Hampton New York passed away peacefully at home from pancreatic cancer on Saturday 16 June, 2007. Mrs. Fishelson was an active advocate of education and opportunity throughout her life. Most recently she served on the Board of Directors for the Child Development C
 GALLUP--Prudence Anne. On June 10. Not quite 65, much too young, an intellectual,highly literate, deeply curious, strongly opinionated, world traveller, cosmopolitan with a wonderful sense of humor. Mourned and missed by her brothers Allyn and Christopher and their wives Sheila and Chrystal
 GRAHAM--Ruth Bell. Ruth was a great pioneer of faith and a full partner with her husband, Rev. Billy Graham, in spreading the Word and God around the world. Her many writings told a vivid story of living a life of commitment and service to the Lord. We mourn her loss as we also celebrate he
 HACKER--Dianne, died on June 6, 2007. Dianne was the daughter of the late Milton Sol Hacker, and Esther Cornez Hacker, who survives her at home. Additional survivors include her brothers Howard and Scott, niece Melissa and sister-in-law, Donna.       
 KAPLAN--Jetta, died June 11, 2007 at the age of 94. She is survived by her brother, George and his wife Frances, as well as a loving family that includes two nieces, two nephews, eight grand-nieces and nephews and nine great grand-nieces and nephews. She travelled extensively and tasted lif
 KESSLER--Betty, passed away Wednesday, June 13, 2007. Born November 20, 1932, she was the daughter of the late Sidney and Leila (Hess) Kessler. Betty attended The University of Miami from which she received both undergraduate and Law degrees. At the time of her death she was a General Magis
 POLLOCK--Harold S., died on June 6th, 2007. Gloria Weiner deeply mourns the loss of her dear brother Hal. I will remember always the goodness of our life together.       
 THURSBY--Ruth Louise, age 93, of Hamden, CT, died Friday, June 8, 2007, in her home. Predeceased by her husband Rev. Irvin G. Thursby. She is survived by her sons, Rev. John Averill Thursby of Hamden and Richard VanBuren Thursby of Newport, RI. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, 
 WEISELBERG--Ruth, of Great Neck, New York, on May 21st, 2007. Loving wife of the late Dr. Norman Weiselberg. Beloved mother of Dr. Stanley and Shannon Weiselberg and Drs. Lora and Saul Teichberg. Cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Kira, Kathleen, Samuel, Joshua (Kate), Jason, Jonathan, Lisa (
 BONCOMPAGNI--Laetitia (Princess). It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of Laetitia Boncompagni of Rome, Italy on June 11, 2007. A deeply beloved member of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art since 1977, she was a Vice President whose enthusiastic and vital 
 COHEN--Claudia. To the Cohen's, Samantha and Ronald we will miss her unmatched passion and loyalty. Lucy and Richard Halperin $(6$)COHEN--Claudia. To our beloved and beautiful Claudia. A member of the Rita Hayworth Gala Steering Committee for more than 12 years, her dedication, inte
 GARLAND--Sylvia, The partners and staff of Hofheimer Gartlir & Gross, LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of our former Partner. Sylvia was a tenacious litigator as well as a mentor and inspiration to many young lawyers. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family.       
 GOTTLIEB--Helene (Honey), we are saddened by the loss of our beloved Honey, a friend for over 40 years and we extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family. Marion, Sam, Andrea, Paul, Alissa and Jay Maizes       
 SILVERMAN--Sara. A glorious 94 years, she passed away on June 15, 2007. Daughter of Rose and Morris Sokoloff. Widow of Max Silverman. Beloved mother of Abby Garfein and Eric Ober, children of her first husband Ralph Ober. Sister of Irving Sokoloff. Grandmother of Karen, Matthew, Nicholas, B
 SIMON--Belle, 97, passed away June 16, 2007. Loving and beloved wife of the late Louis Simon. Adored mother of two sons, Paul and Edward and five grandchildren, Harper, Adrian, Emma, Lulu, and Gabriel. She will be greatly missed by her daughters-inlaw Edie and Leslie. She was a first grade 
 WOOLSEY--Jeanette. We mourn the passing of Jeanette Woolsey of Brooklyn, New York, who died after a brief illness. Jeanette had a long career with Roytex, a garment manufacturer followed by an active retirement. Her wit, wisdom, and intelligence will be dearly missed. Donald, Linda, Jeffrey
 Lola S. Wasserstein, whose larger-than-life personality provided inspiration for sprightly maternal characters in the plays of her daughter Wendy, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Her granddaughter Pam Wasserstein announced the death. Wendy Wasserstein had
 ARMSTRONG--Mary Margaret. May 1921-May 2007. Let Winter round me rave; And the next flowers that deck the Spring, bloom on my peaceful grave! (Robert Burns). Mary Margaret Armstong died Wednesday night, May 16th at the age of 85. It was an end to suffering, although peaceful at the last. At
 DEYLIN--Judy, also known as Judith Secon and Judith Yedlin, died Sunday, June 17, 2007, at age 72. Judith was a graduate of Barnard College and a member of Actors' Equity and the Dramatists Guild of America. She will be remembered by her friends for her dedication to the art of the Drama an
 di MAYORCA--Enrica, affectionately known as Kicca to her many friends and Nonna to her seven grandchildren, died Saturday, June 16th, in Summit, New Jersey. Born in Milan, Italy, in 1935, Kicca spent her childhood and youth with her brother, Paolo, and her beloved sister Laura, playing comp
 GALLUP--Prudence Anne. On June 10. Not quite 65, much too young, an intellectual, highly literate, deeply curious, strongly opinionated, world traveller, cosmopolitan with a wonderful sense of humor. Mourned and missed by her brothers Allyn and Christopher and their wives Sheila and Chrysta
 YAMPOL--Hope Hardcastle, Director and Philanthropist, died June 17, 2007 after a long illness. She is survived by her brother Harold and family, and scores of loving friends.       
