 Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of persuading her teenage son to kill her wealthy father in Utah because of what she considered his stinginess, died on Tuesday at a hospice in San Diego. She was 65. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, M
 GREENE--Jean. Died Saturday, March 27th. Born April 15, 1910. Loving, kind, generous, funny. A true New Yorker born and bred. Lived in every neighborhood of Manhattan. From the Model T to the digital age she always kept up with the times. A most generaous spirit who loved her family and was
 HORNBLOWER -- Marne Lloyd-Smith, 85, born in New York City, died in Washington, DC, on March 30, 2004. Survived by her husband, George Marshall Hornblower, of Washington, her daughters, Marjorie Johnson of Golden, Colorado, Virginia Lawrence of New York City, and Nancy Rice of Coronado, Cal
 KUSHNER--Rae. The worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns the loss of a cherished friend and a beloved matriarch. She was a gentle person who personified joy, humility, integrity and a deep sense of compassion. Rising from the indescribable horrors of the Holocaust, Mrs. Kushner with her late 
 MAGAGNINI--Jessie C. Of Brooklyn, NY, 83, artist, died after a long illness. She graduated Summa Cum Laude from Brooklyn College. Survived by her loving husband, Antonio, her sister, Roslyn Orr, of FL, her son, Stephen, of CA, her daughter Lisa, of Rome, Italy, her daughter, Miranda, of Bro
 TURRET--Rita. Beloved wife of Jack for 60 years, Devoted mother of Ira and David, loving mother-in-law of Josette and Nancy, grandmother of Jonathan, Daniel and Jason, sister of Barnet (Bud) Apfel. Services Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 St and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City, on Friday, Apr
 Janet Akyuz Mattei, an astronomer who studied variable stars, ones that wink and twinkle like cosmic eccentrics, and helped coordinate an international fan club that kept track of them, died on March 22 at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. She was 61 and lived in Littleton, Mass.      
 COHEN -- Shirley. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 EIBER--Hon. Geraldine T. Survived by her devoted husband Bernie and loving children Elissa (Aaron) Tessler, Bruce (Edna Hammer) and grandchildren Rebecca, Ahna, Emma, Alec, Daniel, Sam and Cole. Services private. Family at home April 2April 9. For information call 516-487-9601       
 HUGHES--Mary E. A Greenwich resident passed away at Greenwich Hospital on Thursday, April 1, 2004, due to heart failure, she was 84. Born in NYC on February 14, 1920, she was the daughter of the late James and Catherine O'Neil Ward. Upon graduation from Julia Richmond High School, she worke
 KANTOR -- Florence on March 31st. Beloved wife of the late Edwin. Adored mother of Ellie and son Steve. Cherished grandmother of Todd, Ross, Daniel and Kenneth. Great-grandmother to Daniel, Christopher, Sarah, Jack and Emma. Survived by her devoted companion Lydia and grand-dog Max. She wil
 KUSHNER--Rae. The Board and staff of FEGS Health and Human Services System mourn the loss of Rae Kushner, beloved mother of Charles Kushner an esteemed Member of the FEGS Board of Directors. The Kushner family is renowned for its generous philanthropy and concern for Jewish education, conti
 REVUELTA - CALLICOAT -Dr. Aurora V., of Newark, on March 25, 2004, beloved wife of Michael Callicoat, mother of Michael Cummings, sister of Amor Tagle and her husband, Vincent, Luningning Revuelta and Carmen Trombecky and her husband, Steve, aunt of Joseph Trombecky and Maria Theresa Tagle.
 EIBER--Hon. Geraldine T. Survived by her devoted husband Bernie and loving children Elissa (Aaron) Tessler, Bruce (Edna Hammer) and grandchildren Rebecca, Ahna, Emma, Alec, Daniel, Sam and Cole. Services private. Family at home April 2April 9. For information call 516-487-9601 EIBER
 FEDER--Maria, M.D. Died peacefully on Friday, April 2nd, 2004. Beloved wife of the (recently) late Ted, devoted mother of Gene, Ann and Joan, loving grandmother of Ellie, Ben, Josh, Jojo, Lizzie, Jake and Sammy and aunt of Beverly, June, Allan and Lami. Born on the shores of Lake Balaton, s
 HUGHES--Mary E. A Greenwich resident passed away at Greenwich Hospital on Thursday, April 1, 2004, due to heart failure, she was 84. Born in NYC on February 14, 1920, she was the daughter of the late James and Catherine O'Neil Ward. Upon graduation from Julia Richmond High School, she worke
 KLAYMAN--Norma Rostal. Loving wife of Alexander, devoted mother of Ellen, Marjorie and Nancy, loving grandmother of Julie, Michael and Jonathan. Hunter College graduate-Phi Beta Kappa, Syracuse University-Masters degree, foreign language teacher, loved by her collegues and students alike. S
 KUSHNER--Rae. We mourn the passing of Rae Kushner, an ashet chayil, Holocaust survivor, benefactor of Torah institutions, philanthropist, business leader and true friend. Together with her late husband, Joseph Kushner, z''l, emerged from the ashes of the Holocaust and created a life of Tora
 LOCKHART--Eppie (Etsuko). The Trustees, staff and entire Corlears School community express our deep condolences to the family and dear friends of Eppie Lockhart, on the day of her death, April 1, 2004. We have been moved by her quiet strength; Touched by her sweet humility; Enriched by her 
 Sylvia Froos, who as a child star in the 1920's sang on early radio broadcasts, starred on the vaudeville stage and appeared in a movie with Shirley Temple, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Ilyse Veron, her great
 ALMAN--Emily Arnow. Beloved of David, mother of Michelle Harrison, Jennifer Michaels, grandmother of Heather Bolik, Abigail O'Connor and Cecilia Harrison. Sister of Rahil Goulding. Emily died on March 18, 2004. Dr. Alman was a novelist, film maker, and professor of sociology at Douglass Col
 BARHAM--Betty, 79, livosopher and poet, died gracefully in her sleep on Sunday, March 28, 2004. Betty will be remembered by thousands of people who received her ''55'' pin and her ''22/55'' message to ''change your point of view''. She lived in Manhattan for 27 years, savoring every minute 
 EIBER--Hon. Geraldine T. Survived by her devoted husband Bernie and loving children Elissa (Aaron) Tessler, Bruce (Edna Hammer) and grandchildren Rebecca, Ahna, Emma, Alec, Daniel, Sam and Cole. Services private. Family at home April 2April 9. For information call 516-487-9601       
 FEDER--Maria, M.D. Died peacefully on Friday, April 2nd, 2004. Beloved wife of the (recently) late Ted, devoted mother of Gene, Ann and Joan, loving grandmother of Ellie, Ben, Josh, Jojo, Lizzie, Jake and Sammy and aunt of Beverly, June, Allan and Lami. Born on the shores of Lake Balaton, s
 FISHER--Monique. 67, of Brooklyn, NY, after a valiant six year struggle with melanoma. Predeceased by her loving husband Zalman and daughter Jeannette. Survived by devoted son Julian, numerous friends and relatives. Funeral services at Yorkville Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave at 70 St, NYC, S
 GREENE--Dorrit. On Friday evening, April 2nd, at age 82. Beloved wife of Daniel. Loving mother to Karin Grouf, Sherri, Ronald and Kenneth Greene, and grandmother to Caitlin and Ryan. Mother-inlaw to Diane, sister to Fred Hill, and friend to many. Accomplished doctor of psychology, avid stud
 GREENE--Jean. Died Saturday, March 27th. Born April 15, 1910. Loving, kind, generous, funny. A true New Yorker born and bred. Lived in every neighborhood of Manhattan. From the Model T to the digital age she always kept up with the times. A most generous spirit who loved her family and was 
 HAGERTY--Lisa B. 71. On March 22, 2004. Preceded in her death by her husband, Sheward Hagerty. Attended the Brearley School, Milton Academy and Bryn Mawr College. Survived by her sons, Sheward, Sean and Sandford, as well as her four grandsons. Her radiance, generosity and optimism will be m
 KLAYMAN -- Norma. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Norma Klayman and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Alexander and the entire family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 KUSHNER--Rae. We mourn the passing of Rae Kushner, a partisan and heroine of the Holocaust, and ashet chayil and matriarch of a great family, a business leader and founder, together with her late beloved husband, Joseph of blessed memory, of Kushner Companies, a philanthropist and role mode
 LOCKHART -- Etsuko ''Ep pie''. Her gentle kindness, selfless dignity, quiet strength, natural grace, boundless spirit and positive outlook will inspire us always. The band       
 RABBINO--Irma L. Of New York City on April 1, 2004. Devoted daughter of the late Rose and Murray. Cherished sister of Bernard and Tina. Loving aunt and grand-aunt. Services 10 AM, Sunday, at the Bernheim-Apter-Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short Hills Rd, Livingston, NJ. 973-422
 REMBAR--Billie Ann. On March 16, 2004 at age 87. Born in Wallace, Idaho; she moved to Washington, D.C. at 19 working in the Federal Government during the New Deal and WW II. She married Charles Rembar in 1944 who died in 2000. They lived in Scarsdale and East Hampton for 50 years. She is su
 Joan Richman, a retired executive at CBS News who oversaw the network's early coverage of the Apollo space program with Walter Cronkite, died on Friday at her home in Lumberville, Pa. She was 64. The cause was cancer, Kyle Good, a family friend, said. A native of St. Louis, 
 Mildred Jeffrey, who for seven decades was an influential behind-the-scenes combatant in the women's, labor and civil rights movements, died on March 24 in Detroit. She was 93. Her death was announced by the United Automobile Workers union, where she was the first woman to head a de
 BARHAM--Betty, 79, livosopher and poet, died gracefully in her sleep on Sunday, March 28, 2004. Betty will be remembered by thousands of people who received her ''55'' pin and her ''22/55'' message to ''change your point of view''. She lived in Manhattan for 27 years, savoring every minute 
 GREENE--Dorrit. On Friday evening, April 2nd, at age 82. Beloved wife of Daniel. Loving mother to Karin Grouf, Sherri, Ronald and Kenneth Greene, and grandmother to Caitlin and Ryan. Mother-inlaw to Diane, sister to Fred Hill, and friend to many. Accomplished doctor of psychology, avid stud
 KRANCER--Anne. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Anne Krancer, and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband and our esteemed member, Ronald A. Krancer, and their family
 REMBAR--Billie Ann. On March 16, 2004 at age 87. Born in Wallace, Idaho; she moved to Washington, D.C. at 19 working in the Federal Government during the New Deal and WW II. She married Charles Rembar in 1944 who died in 2000. They lived in Scarsdale and East Hampton for 50 years. She is su
 YURKOVSKY--Anthea I. (Valaki). 75, died on March 30, in Milford, Connecticut. She had been ill for many years with Alzheimer's disease. Mrs. Yurkovsky taught in public schools in New York City and in Milford, CT. before retiring in 1989. Active in local politics and community affairs, she w
 WEITZMAN--Yaffa. La Paloma. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. C. Jeremy & Jerrol       
 FOLLEK--Ruth, 89, of New York, New York on April 5, 2004. Survived by son Robert and daughter-in-law Stacy Feldman. Predeceased by husband Jack. Ruth loved the theatre, the opera, Scrabble and the Times. Her family and many friends will miss her. At her request, there will be no service. Co
 FRIEDMAN -- Doris. Died April 5th in her New York City home. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Friedman and former wife of the late Alvin Dann. Devoted mother of Hillary and Marlene and stepsons Jeff, Will and Rick. Loving grandmother of Jeremy, Jake, Gaby, Nick and Hallie. Cherished aunt and
 GREENE--Dorrit. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Daniel, and brother Fred Hill and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of th
 ISAACS--Rose B. Longtime Baltimore resident, recently of New York City, died peacefully in NYC on April 5, 2004. She was the wife of the late Rufus, and loving mother of Fran Gilmore (John), and Dr. Ellen Isaacs, and grandmother of Aram. A memorial service will be held Thursday, April 8th, 
 RICHMAN--Joan F., 64. Died on April 2 of cancer at her home in Bucks County, PA. Beloved sister of Judith R. Saidel (Peter). Loving aunt of Andrew (Toshiko), Lisa and Jonathan. Join her family to celebrate her life with joy at The Cosmopolitan Club, 129 East 65 St, on April 22, 6:308:30 PM.
 SIEGEL--Barbara Reich. The Society for the Advancement of Judaism records with sorrow the death of our member, Barbara Reich Siegel. We extend our condolences to her entire family. Michael Strassfeld, Rabbi Abraham Clott, Bd Chairman       
 FOLLEK--Ruth, 89, of New York, New York on April 5, 2004. Survived by son Robert and daughter-in-law Stacy Feldman. Predeceased by husband Jack. Ruth loved the theatre, the opera, Scrabble and the Times. Her family and many friends will miss her. At her request, there will be no service. Co
 KHAN--Karen. With deep sorrow we announce the passing of Karen Khan. She is survived by her loving partner Riva, her children Christopher, Kisha, Sarah and Esther, her sisters and brothers Suzi and Bob, and David and Nancy, her niece Morgan Lily, her nephews Nick, Tyler and Julian, and coun
 SHAWN -- Catherine (aka Schwartz), on April 5, 2004 in Manhattan. Was the creator of GO2BUILDINGS.COM website and environmental clearing house bringing contractors, architects and suppliers together to build environmentally friendly homes and offices. Graduate of Parsons School of Design an
 MEGYESI--Klara, MD, Budapest, 1928-2004. We honor her memory, a Holocaust survivor who became an expert in endocrinology, beloved doctor and mentor who gave so much and asked so little. Daughter Zsuzsa Beres, son-in-law Fred Branfman, at zsuzsa@zsuzsaberes.co       
 Larisa Bogoraz, an early Soviet-era dissident whose moral stubbornness helped define the movement, died Tuesday at the age of 74. Colleagues said the cause of death was a series of strokes. Ms. Bogoraz is best remembered for her participation in the first public demonstration of the
 BLACK -- Eva Fuzessery, passed away on April 5, 2004 at her residence in Scarsdale. She is survived by sisters Maria Fuzessery, Klara Fuzessery and brother Miklos Fuzessery; stepchildren Catherine Turner, Campbell and David Black and their families. She is also survived by 34 nieces and nep
 COLBERT--Dorothy K. (nee Katz), 81, of Palm Beach, FL and Cleveland, OH, died April 7, 2004. She was the beloved wife of Ralph. Devoted mother of Michael and Jan and Loving grandmother of Lauren and Marcus. An active Volunteer, she served numerous organizations including the Cleveland Rehab
 LAMSTEIN--Pauline, 94, of Lauderhill, FL, passed away on Tuesday, April 6, 2004. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. Jay Lamstein. A wonderful and loving mother to Allan (Susan) and the late Judith (Leonard) Charney. Warm and cherished grandmother to Joanne, Cathy and Johanna. Devoted 
 MCINTOSH--Mary (nee Donovan). 70, of New York, New York, on April 5, 2004. Mary is survived by her loving husband Jack, her sons, George A. Pandaleone, and Thomas E. Pandaleone, their wives, and four grandchildren. Mary retired as Assistant Dean for Community Services at Westchester Communi
 SCHLOSSBERG -- Dorothy. April 7, 2004. Beloved wife of Norman. Devoted mother of Leo and Marc. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Alex, Catrina and Jack. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Thursday 2-4 and
 WALLER--Wilhelmine Stewart Kirby, wife of the late Thomas Mercer Waller, in her 90th year, at Tanrackin Farm, Bedford Hills, NY. Memorial service on Thursday, April 15, at 11 AM, at St. Matthew's Church, Bedford, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Bedford Historical So
 WHEEL--Lesley 75 on April 1, 2004. Ms. Wheel was a remarkable, generous, articulate, truly great aunt who cherished her nephews, grand nephews, nieces-in-law and beloved friends. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1949, trained originally in Theater Lighting and production, was the fir
 GROSZ -- Etta (nee Etta Wegh), beloved wife of Ivan Grosz, dear mother of Dr. Raul Grosz and Mrs. Rita Sherman, grandmother of Rachael, Daniela, Joshua and Jacob, died suddenly yesterday. She was a ray of sun with a golden smile who always just thought about others. She was a wonderful wife
 McCAHILL--Elizabeth Cameron, of Southold, Long Island on April 5, 2004 at the age of 85. Dame of Malta. Survived by her cousin, Cynthia Halsey of Southold and the HoustonThomas Family of Geneseo, NY. Friends may call on Thursday, April 15 from 35PM at the DeFriest-Grattan Funeral Homes, Inc
 OFFENBACHER--Deborah I. On April 5, 2004. Beloved sister of Eric (Gertrude), Erwin (Alice) and the late Emil (Anne). Devoted aunt and cousin. Former Professor of Sociology at Brooklyn College. She will be greatly missed by family and friends. Contributions in her memory may be made to Dorot
 ROSENBAUM -- Gloria. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 SCHAEFLER--Katalin, M.D. On April 7, 2004. Beloved wife of Sam. Loving mother of Margaret and the late Adrian. Dear grandmother of William and Peter. She is also survived by her loving sister, cousins, nieces and many friends. Service Friday 11:15am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterda
 Timi Yuro, the pop singer whose throaty and soulful delivery made ''Hurt'' and other songs hits in the early 1960's, died on March 30 at her home in Las Vegas. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said her niece, Michelle Duval. Ms. Yuro's hits, like ''I Apologize,'' ''For the 
 FARRELL--Marilyn J. On April 8, 2004. Beloved partner of John Pierfelice. Loved by her nieces and nephews, and brother-in-law, her step-children and grandchildren, her dog Sassy, as well as her many friends, colleagues and students at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. The family will rec
 FINKELSTEIN--Sandra. It is with great sadness that we mourn the death of Sandra Finkelstein, esteemed member of Ridgeway Country Club for 25 years. Loving wife, mother, grandmother and dear friend. She lived a full life and touched many hearts. She will truly be missed by all who knew her. 
 LAFFERTY--Agnes M. On April 6, 2004. She was 92. Beloved daughter of the late Michael and Bridget (nee Keenan). Loving relative of many. Miss Lafferty was a long time active member of the Good Shepherd parish. Reposing at the Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Bway at 214 St, NYC Monday 9:30-10:3
 LEWIS--Lorelei. Died unexpectedly at St. Vincent's Hospital on April 5. Lorelei worked in radio, early television, and book publishing. For twenty years, she was a reporter for Star magazine. Passionate and positive, Lorelei was an unfailing source of support and comfort to her many friends
 Beatrice Riese, an abstract painter whose important collection of African art is now owned by the Brooklyn Museum, died on April 2 at the hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86. The cause was abdominal cancer, said Roger Mosesson, a friend. Ms. Riese was bo
 AMENDOLA--Britta Swenning, passed away in her New York home on April 7th. The beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick Amendola, former Chief of Surgery at Roosevelt Hospital, Mrs. Amendola was born September 25th, 1913 in Norrkopping, Sweden and emigrated to this country in 1923. A graduate 
 FARRELL--Marilyn J. On April 8, 2004. Beloved partner of John Pierfelice. Loved by her nieces and nephews, and brother-in-law, her step-children and grandchildren, her dog Sassy, as well as her many friends, colleagues and students at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. The family will rec
 FRIEDEL--Dora (Dorothy). Devoted wife of the late Irving Friedel, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, sister, aunt and great-aunt. She is survived by her children Celia and Charles Reiner, Walter and Dorothy Friedel, brother Bernard Fox, grandchildren Michael, Eric, Rose, Donald and Con
 HARTMAN--Sylvia ''Sunny'', 92, of Great Neck and Fort Lauderdale, died on April 6 surrounded by her family. She is survived by her sons Steven and David; and daughters-in-law Chantal and Sharron; five grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren.       
 HERZON--Doris Belle, on Tuesday, March 16. Interior designer. Her friends will miss her.       
 LA GRANGE--Virginia Smith, 85, of Penney Farms, FL, formerly of Pelham Manor, NY, on April 5, 2004. Survived by her daughter, Anne Loving, granddaughter, Veronica, and son-in-law, Tony. Predeceased by her son, Lewis Arnold LaGrange, and husband, Lester LaGrange. Funeral Saturday, May 1, 11 
 LEWIS--Lorelei. Died unexpectedly at St. Vincent's Hospital on April 5. Lorelei worked in radio, early television, and book publishing. For twenty years, she was a reporter for Star magazine. Passionate and positive, Lorelei was an unfailing source of support and comfort to her many friends
 SELIGMAN--Edith. Beloved friend died on March 6, 2004. Brilliant bridge teacher and mentor to so many students. You were always so full of life and generous with your time. Edith had taught bridge for 15 years at the New York City Cavendish Bridge Club, known as the bridge capitol of the wo
 AMENDOLA--Britta Swenning, passed away in her New York home on April 7th. The beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick Amendola, former Chief of Surgery at Roosevelt Hospital, Mrs. Amendola was born September 25th, 1913 in Norrkopping, Sweden and emigrated to this country in 1923. A graduate 
 HAMPFORD -- Clare (Tee) Malarkey. Age 68. A resident of Trumbull, CT. Died Sunday April 11, 2004, in her home. Mrs. Hampford was born in St. Clair, PA, on March 21, 1936, the daughter of Martin and Clare McCarthy Malarkey. She was a graduate of Pottsville Catholic High School and Manhattanv
 LA GRANGE--Virginia Smith, 85, of Penney Farms, FL, formerly of Pelham Manor, NY, on April 5, 2004. Survived by her daughter, Anne Loving, granddaughter, Veronica, and son-in-law, Tony. Predeceased by her son, Lewis Arnold LaGrange, and husband, Lester LaGrange. Funeral Saturday, May 1, 11 
 LEHMAN--Susan. Of Rye, on April 11, 2004. She is survived by her husband Lawrence, children Dr. Scott (wife Bay) and Christopher (wife Sondra), grandchildren Emi and Ben. She is prececeased by a brother, General Arthur W. Green Jr. Service Tuesday, 12 noon, at Zion Memorial Chapel. Committa
 MALLET--Madame Andre. Born Mary de Luze, daughter of Leonie Haviland and Henri de Luze, granddaughter of Theodore Haviland and Curator and Director of Le Dois de Moutiers for 50 years, died in Le Bois des Moutiers at Varengeville - sur - Mer, France in her 99th year on March 30, 2004. A mem
 POLATNICK -- Selma. Most dear and beloved wife to Jerome, mother to Lois, Judith and Barbara, grandmother to David, Andrew, Tom, Paul, Rachael, Arlen and Larry, died April 7, 2004. She had a successful career as a clinical psychologist, special ed and college teacher. She will be deeply mis
 SCHAFFER--Helen. May 14, 1916-April 9, 2004, loving mother, wife, grandmother, great - grandmother and friend to so many, died at home after a long illness, surrounded by family. Preceded in death by her husband Michael, her ten siblings, and grandson David. She is survived by her daughter 
 SCOTT--Lorrayne ''Joni,'' age 85, of Ocean Ridge, FL, died Wednesday afternoon, April 7, 2004. She had lived in this area since 1978, coming from Bronxville, NY. Mrs. Scott had been a volunteer at Lawrence Hospital and the registrar for the Reformed Church Sunday School in Bronxville. She w
 WIENER--Leonora. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend, Sea Gate girl, Jesse's pal, brilliant mind and expansive heart, died peacefully on April 9, on a beautiful and sad morning. We'll miss her so.       
 Eileen Darby Lester, a photographer who helped immortalize theatrical productions, taking pictures of more than 500 Broadway shows and photographing stars like Olivier, Dietrich and Brando, died on March 30 at a nursing home in Long Beach, N.Y. She was 87. Her death followed a fall 
 AUBERTIN -- Constance Smith, died peacefully at her home in Greenwich, CT on April 3. Born in Providence, RI, she was the daughter of the late Robert and Constance Smith. She graduated from the Lincoln School in 1941. During the second World War, she worked for the Red Cross and later, in W
 BERG--Sr. Majella, RSHM. The Board of Trustees, the President, the faculty and administration of Marymount Manhattan College join our sister institution Marymount University of Arlington, VA in mourning the passing on April 5, 2004 of Sr. Magella Berg of the Religious of the Sacred Heart of
 CAMERON--Wendy Mairs. 56, of Darien, CT and Fishers Island, NY, passed away on April 10, 2004 after a gallant battle against ovarian cancer. Beloved wife, mother and friend, she is survived by her husband, Gerry, her daughter & son-in-law Betsy and Nik Taylor, her son David Cameron and his 
 CASTILLO--Julia Falla, of Key Biscayne, Florida and formerly of Darien, CT and Havana, Cuba died on April 11, of cancer. In addition to her beloved husband, Pedro Castillo, she is survived by her three children, Pedro Castillo III of Manhattan, Miguel Castillo of Hilton Head, SC and Ana Cas
 COHN--Cecile S. Formerly of Brookline MA, New York NY, and Scarsdale NY, in Boston MA on Sunday, at the age of 93. Wife of the late Joseph Cohn of Scarsdale, NY. Mother of Robert M. Cohn of New York, NY. Aunt of five and Great Aunt of eight. She was an avid seeker of knowledge, a gracious h
 DAVIS--Barbara Sue. Passed away on April 8, 2004 at age 52. Manhattan resident and designer who made many smile with her Muppet costumes. Memorial Service at Frank Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue on Thursday, April 15 at 6:30PM. Barbara Davis/Juvenile Diabetes Research, 120 Wall 
 HAMPFORD -- Clare (Tee) Malarkey. Age 68. A resident of Trumbull, CT. Died Sunday April 11, 2004, in her home. Mrs. Hampford was born in St. Clair, PA, on March 21, 1936, the daughter of Martin and Clare McCarthy Malarkey. She was a graduate of Pottsville Catholic High School and Manhattanv
 LEWIS--Ann R. February 23, 1911-April 11, 2004, died at home surrounded by loved ones. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Patricia Braverman, Susan Kominsky and mother-in-law of Norman. Cherished grandmother of Cary, Alice, Julie Reva and Andrew Lewis. Loving great-grandmoth
 PIERSON--Polly Stokes, a wonderful mother and grandmother, died peacefully at her home in Malibu on April 5, surrounded by her family. She was born to Walter and Polly Stokes in Manhattan in 1926. After attending the Chapin School, she pursued a BA, Class of '48, and Master's degree at Radc
 SCHUMANN--Marie. Former teacher in Brooklyn, died August 30, 2003. She was buried at Arlington in September.       
 THORNHILL--Frances Bennett. Age 89, died peacefully Thursday April 8, 2004, in her Durham, North Carolina home. Mrs. Thornhill was born in Brooklyn, NY on March 29, 1915 to the late Cornelius J. and Barbara Bedell Steigenwalt Bennett. Mrs. Thornhill will be remembered as a generous parent, 
 DAVIS--Barbara Sue. Passed away on April 8, 2004 at age 52. Manhattan resident and designer who made many smile with her Muppet costumes. Memorial Service at Frank Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue on Thursday, April 15 at 6:30PM. Barbara Davis/Juvenile Diabetes Research, 120 Wall 
 LAGER--Fannie, 92, April 11. Her nieces, nephews, sisterin-law and her many friends will remember her for her zest for learning, her knowledge and enjoyment of art and music, and mostly for her independent spirit. We will miss her.       
 LAZARUS--Elizabeth June. Died peacefully on Sunday, April 11th, 2004 at White Plains Hospital, at the age of 83. Mrs. Lazarus was born on June 25, 1920 in Elm Creek, Nebraska. She was the youngest, and final survivor, of the seven children of Cyrena Harper and Joseph Henry Stallbories. Afte
 RAFFA--Anna (nee Martino). On April 12, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Dominick. Beloved mother of Connie, Lucretia, and Anthony. Dear mother-in-law of Raymond, Joel and Martine. Cherished grandmother of Emilie. Reposing at Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Avenue, NYC, on Thursday 2:00-4:00 a
 SCHMOOKLER -- Jeannette. October 6, 1905-April 11, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. She is survived by two daughters, Audrey (Paul) Nortman, and Joyce (Louis) Columbo; nine grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren. Private funeral services.       
 STEIGBIGEL--Ellen Francis Jarvis, 67, of New York, NY on April 13, 2004. Loving mother of Matthew and Amy and grandmother of Nathaniel. Beloved wife and best friend of Neal. Fierce Democrat, avid theater goer, voracious reader, clever wit. She will be dearly missed. Service Thursday, April 
 WALLER--Wilhelmine Stewart Kirby. The Officers and Directors of The Garden Club of America express deep sorrow on the death of their former President, Wilhelmine Kirby Waller, and extend deepest sympathy to her family and friends. She served the Garden Club with great distinction and extrao
 BERMAN--Dr. Muriel. On April 13 at her home in Allentown, Pa. Age 89. Wife of the late Philip I. Berman. Survived by daughters Nancy Bloch, Nina Schafer and son Steven and six grandchildren. Services today Congregation Keneseth Israel Synagogue, Allentown at 2:30PM. Interment The Congregati
 FINKELSTEIN--Libby. Loving wife of the late Hy Finkelstein; beloved and adored mother, mother - in - law, grandmother, sister, aunt, and charismatic being, died in Manhattan yesterday 1 hour into her 90th birthday. She touched all those whom she met with her wit, humor, irreverence and devo
 JACOBOWITZ -- Ruth. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Mrs. Esther Graber. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 JOSEPHS--Miriam. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Miriam Josephs of New Jersey, inspiring and devoted community leader and passionate supporter of Israel. A founding member of the Bergen County Israel Bonds Women's Division, she served as local cha
 LEVENTHAL--Muriel. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Muriel Leventhal and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 MARBUT--Katharine Lott. A resident of Sands Point, NY for more than 50 years passed away on April 13th, 2004 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Terrell Clifford Marbut. Devoted mother of Katharine Marbut Ullman and Clifford Daniel Marbut. Grandmother of Laura Ullman Schwartz, Susan Kathari
 RAFFA--Anna (nee Martino). On April 12, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Dominick. Beloved mother of Connie, Lucretia, and Anthony. Dear mother-in-law of Raymond, Joel and Martine. Cherished grandmother of Emilie. Reposing at Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Avenue, NYC, on Thursday 2:00-4:00 a
 RUBIN--Beatrice D. A major philanthropist of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center, Beatrice continued the legacy of her late husband, Samuel, who was Treasurer of the Board of Trustees. Along with her son Lowell, a Brookdale Trustee, and her daughter-in-law, the Hon. Alice F
 SCHAFFER -- Helen. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and a respected member of our Society of Founders. With her late husband, Michael, she established the Michael and Helen Schaffer Research Laboratory at our
 STEIGBIGEL--Ellen Francis Jarvis, 67, of New York, NY on April 13, 2004. Loving mother of Matthew and Amy and grandmother of Nathaniel. Beloved wife and best friend of Neal. Fierce Democrat, avid theater goer, voracious reader, clever wit. She will be dearly missed. Service Thursday, April 
 TOLPIN--Leah. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of our member, Mrs. Shoshana Comet. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood TOLPIN--Leah. The Postgraduate Psyc
 WEINTRAUB--Dorothy, died April 13th in Fort Collins, Colorado. We felt it a privilege to know her and be a part of her family. She died as she lived with dignity and grace. Our sympathy to her sons Steve and Jerry, their wives and children. Her memory will remain in our hearts. Joanne and H
 WIHL--Nelly Lidell. Dearest mother to John Lidell and devoted aunt to Robert Rossano, Eliane Malfi and Huguette Bornstein, died on April 14, 2004. May she rest in peace and may God preserve her soul forever. Services Friday, 1:30 PM at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', Amsterdam Ave, corne
 BENATTI--Barbara Maccagli. On April 14, 2004. Beloved wife of Raymond. Devoted mother of Michelle. Loving daughter of Mary. Barbara attended Ladycliff College and received her B.A. and went on to St. John's University and received her M.A. in French. Visitation will be held Friday 2-5 and 7
 JACOBSON--Sheila. National Council of Jewish Women, Peninsula Section, records with profound sorrow the death of our past president and advisory board member, Sheila Jacobson. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Joan Riegel and Raela Bloom Co-Presidents JACOBSON--Sheila Krell, 
 KRASIK--Rosalind, age 71, died Thursday, April 15, 2004 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, New Brunswick. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Mrs. Krasik lived in Queens for twelve years, Old Bridge for 20 years and Marlboro for the past 17 years. Mrs. Krasik was employed at Gotham In
 LEHMAN--Lillian. In her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loved and adored mother of Leslie and Susan and devoted son-in-law Stephen. Cherished grandmother to Scott and Tracey, Elisa, Brett and Kim. Treasured great grandmother of Jake, Henry, Sydney, Marley and Jed. You will be deep
 TAMARKIN -- Bernita. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Bernita Tamarkin and extends sincere sympathy to her husband and other members of her family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 WIHL--Nelly Lidell. Dearest mother to John Lidell and devoted aunt to Robert Rossano, Eliane Malfi and Huguette Bornstein, died on April 14, 2004. May she rest in peace and may God preserve her soul forever. Services Friday, 1:30 PM at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', Amsterdam Ave, corne
 ALBERS -- Caroline (nee Mook). Cammy Albers, 39, died peacefully at her home on April 14 of cancer. Survived by husband Roy, three children, Sofie, Kent and Olivia, and parents Kent and Martha Mook. We remember her passion, instinct for fun, and her loyalty. Visitation Sunday, April 18, 2-4
 BERMAN--Dr. Muriel. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem note with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Muriel Berman, wife of the late Philip I. Berman and beloved mother of Nancy, Nina and Steven. Committed to Israel's people, the Bermans crea
 FEIN--Marjorie, on April 16th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of Linda and her husband, Ira Schaefer, and Gene Fein. Dear Nana of Melissa Schaefer Morabito and Richard Schaefer. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 PEZAS--Sylvia (nee Dubin). On April 12, lifelong New York resident, musician, sculptor, loving aunt. She taught us how to live.       
 ALBERS -- Caroline (nee Mook). Cammy Albers, 39, died peacefully at her home on April 14 of cancer. Survived by husband Roy, three children, Sofie, Kent and Olivia, and parents Kent and Martha Mook. We remember her passion, instinct for fun, and her loyalty. Visitation Sunday, April 18, 2-4
 BERMAN--Dr. Muriel Mallin. Hadassah WZOA mourns the loss of our dear colleague, member of the National Board and former President of the Eastern Pennsylvania Region. She recognized the need for educated professional nurses in Israel, was a generous supporter of nursing exchange and scholars
 BROWNSTEIN--Dorothy. 88, of Hollywoood, FL. Beloved mother of Harriet Rothman and Dale Freedman, died on April 15, 2004, after a long illness. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. A graveside service will be held Monday, April 19, 2004, at 10:30 am, in Mt. Neboh Cemetery in Queen
 COLBERT--Ann Q. Died in Seal Beach, CA, on April 10, at age 81. Born in Yonkers, New York, on September 12, 1922. Survived by her daughter, Treacy, of Long Beach, CA; son, Richard, of Sherman Oaks, CA; sister, Janet Coursen, of Princeton; a grandson; nephews, and many friends. Her daughter,
 COLCLOUGH -- Elizabeth Shempp, born October 2, 1901 in Hudesville, PA. After graduating from the University of Rochester, she taught English. She married Walter Colclough, an editor of the NY Herald Tribune. Widowed in 1933, she became the first woman radio editor of the NY Herald Tribune. 
 DAVIS--Elizabeth Galloway (Betsy). On April 13, 2004. Betsy encouraged many to become involved in community outreach, and she created positive changes to the lives she touched. Preceded in death by her father John Price Davis, she is survived by her mother Virginia Davis Halladay (Eugene), 
 FEIN--Marjorie, on April 16th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of Linda and her husband, Ira Schaefer, and Gene Fein. Dear Nana of Melissa Schaefer Morabito and Richard Schaefer. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. FEIN--
 KONOPKO--Lea. The Board of the John F. Kennedy, Jr. Institute for Worker Education expresses our condolences on the passing of Lea Konopko, devoted and loving mother of Deborah Konopko, a key participant in the founding of the Institute. Lea Konopko's continued triumphs over adversity were 
 LICHT--Eleanor. On April 16, 2004. Adored daughter of the late Abraham and Sarah Abrams. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Judy and her husband Jerry Della Femina. Devoted grandmother of Jessie and J.T. (James Thomas) Della Femina. Dearest sister of the late Helen Blau and
 NEIGER--Elinore, on April 6th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Eugene. Loving mother of Sura (Lance) Rosenthal. Cherished grandmother of Josh and Julia. Former VP, National Council of Jewish Women. Formerly of NYC and Millbrook, NY. Contributions may be made to Woodlands Community Temple, Fu
 PEZAS--Sylvia (nee Dubin). On April 12, lifelong New York resident, musician, sculptor, loving aunt. She taught us how to live.       
 POONS--Marion B. (nee Altmann). Born in Berlin, July 2, 1920. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of loss that we announce the death of Marion Poons, at home in New York, on April 17, 2004. She is survived by Emanuel Poons, her husband of 37 years, her sister Irene Brent, her niece 
 RICHMAN--Joan F., 64. Died April 3 at her home in Bucks County, PA. Beloved sister of Judith R. Saidel (Peter). Loving aunt of Andrew (Toshiko), Lisa and Jonathan. Join her family to celebrate her life with joy at The Cosmopolitan Club, 129 East 65 St. on April 22, 6:30-8:30PM. Contribution
 VOGEL--Sandy, formerly of Manhattan, died Friday, April 2nd, at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY following open heart surgery. For many years an executive producer of TV commercials, she retired in 1998 to her home in Montauk, NY. Devoted sister, beloved aunt and great-aunt,
 ZEIG--Gaye. Died suddenly, but peacefully, on April 12, 2004. She will always be remembered for her grace, humor, analytic mind and her steadfast vision of a more equitable world. She will be deeply missed by her family, who love her deeply, and the many children and friends who knew her. S
 DAVIS--Betsy. The Trustees and staff of the Madison Square Park Conservancy express their sorrow over the sudden loss of our friend, Betsy Davis. Betsy's contagious enthusiasm, her passion and vivacious personality will be remembered by all of us. Betsy's many contributions to Madison Squar
 GLOTZER--Diana (nee Sorkin). Peacefully passed away in her sleep on April 17, 2004. Married to George for 67 years, she was an adoring mother to Sandy and Alan, grandmother of Kathy, Andy, Emily and Owen and greatgrandmother to Lydia, Zachary, Sophie and Macy. She treasured the in-laws they
 JACOBSON--Jean L. Died on April 17, 2004, in her 85th year. For 66 years the beloved wife of Robert Sr. Cherished mother of Arthur, Robert Jr., and James. Devoted mother-inlaw of Deborah, Anita and Kerry. Adored so completely by her seven grandchildren, Elizabeth, Arthur L. Jr., Thomas E., 
 JOYCE--Sister Ellen (formerly Sister James Liquori). General Superior of the Sisters of Charity, Convent Station, NJ, from 1979-1987, on April 17, 2004. Survived by her sister Mary Joyce and brother John Joyce and a sister-inlaw, Kathleen Joyce. Visitation will be held in Holy Family Chapel
 LICHT--Eleanor. On April 16, 2004. Adored daughter of the late Abraham and Sarah Abrams. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Judy and her husband Jerry Della Femina. Devoted grandmother of Jessie and J.T. (James Thomas) Della Femina. Dearest sister of the late Helen Blau and
 MISHKIN--Mae S. Of Fort Lauderdale, formerly of Rego Park, NY, a month shy of 91. A long, healthy and happy life. Beloved wife of the late Midge. Adored mother of Monica and Michael Berke, Susan and Jim Roukale. Devoted sister of Stanley Kelts. Cherished grandmother of Alison and Alex Moran
 POONS--Marion B. (nee Altmann). Born in Berlin, July 2, 1920. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of loss that we announce the death of Marion Poons, at home in New York, on April 17, 2004. She is survived by Emanuel Poons, her husband of 37 years, her sister Irene Brent, her niece 
 SOLOW--Rita Newman. Was passionate about her family, her friends, politics, the environment, culture, education and ideas. A lifelong political activist, she taught English at Adelphi University. She died suddenly in Sag Harbor on April 13, 2004. The family requests that those wishing to re
 ZEIG--Gaye. Died suddenly, but peacefully, on April 12, 2004. She will always be remembered for her grace, humor, analytic mind and her steadfast vision of a more equitable world. She will be deeply missed by her family, who love her deeply, and the many children and friends who knew her. S
 BREITZER--Dora Margolis. Died on April 19, 2004. She was 89 years old. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Bernard Breitzer. Sister of Rebecca Fink. Cherished mother of Sheila Leitner and Dr. Gerard Breitzer and the late Dr. Robert Breitzer. Devoted mother-in-law of Art Leitner and Dr. Susan Frank
 JACOBSON--Jean. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Jean Jacobson. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary JACOBSON--Jean. The Of
 KAVA--Rose, beloved wife of the late David Solomon, sister of Dina Arbel, devoted mother of Victor and Ruth, mother-in-law of Richard Hemmes, passed away in her sleep on April 18, 2004. She brought a sweet light into many lives throughout her 94 years. Memorial service on Friday, April 23 a
 MURPHY--Doris. Born December 31, 1908, passed away April 16, 2004 after a short illness. She was employed as a retail clerk for many years. She was preceded in death by a son, Dr. Joseph S. Murphy. She is survived by a son Robert of Las Vegas, NV, four grandchildren and eight great-grandchi
 ROTHSCHILD -- Tirzah. Passed away peacefully in her own apartment in Upper Manhattan on Sunday, April 18, 2004, after a short illness. Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Leo and Paula Rothschild, sister of Dr. Karlo Rothschild and the late Hilde Straus and sister-in-law of Walter Straus and F
 ANASTOS--Rosemary Park. The trustees and officers of Connecticut College offer their heartfelt condolences to the family of President Emeritus Rosemary Park Anastos, who died April 17 in California. She served as a beloved President from 1947 to 1962 and was a leader in American higher educ
 BARKAN--Roberta May, in Stanford, CA, April 18, 2004. Beloved wife of Paul Barkan of Palo Alto, CA. Loving mother of Jeremy Barkan (Lisa) of Jerusalem and David Barkan (Wendy) of Los Altos, CA. Devoted grandmother of Shachar, Haim, Rachel and Naomi Barkan. An inspiration to countless studen
 KELLY--Sr. Mary Elizabeth (Sister Dolores Mary), beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mount St. Vincent, died Tuesday, April 20, 2004. Sister Mary Elizabeth was President of Elizabeth Seton College from 1966 to 1974. From 1977 to 1993, she held various administrative positio
 MITCHELL--Carol Spencer. 50, passed away at her home in Croton-on-Hudson on April 15, 2004, following a long courageous battle with breast cancer. A photojournalist, writer, and multi-media producer, she spent over 17 years as a member of the foreign press corps, covering the Middle East, N
 PAVEK--Mary Beth, nee Gibney, died April 17, 2004. She resided in Highland Mills, NY and Wellfleet, MA. She is survived by her brother, Rev. Laurence H. Gibney; children, Francis, Larry, Peter, John and Anne and grandchildren, Emily, Elizabeth, Margaret, Allen, Matthew and Bethany.       
 RICHMAN--Joan F., 64. Died April 3 at her home in Bucks County, PA. Beloved sister of Judith R. Saidel (Peter). Loving aunt of Andrew (Toshiko), Lisa and Jonathan. Join her family to celebrate her life with joy at The Cosmopolitan Club, 129 East 65 St. on April 22, 6:30-8:30PM. Contribution
 ZANANIRI SOLDATI--Ariane. Passed away on Easter Tuesday, 13 April 2004, surrounded by her sons and daughters, Sabrina, Victoria, Yasmina, Francisco and Maria Jose. Buenos Aires, Argentina. Donations to: FUNDALEU, Buenos Aires, direccionejecutiva @fundaleu.org.ar       
 BRADEN--Adelaide Weld of Lloyd Harbor, NY died April 20, 2004 in her 85th year. Beloved wife of William Braden, and the late Robert Bacon Whitney and James Knott. She is survived by her daughter, Hope Whitney Lapsley and her son, Robert Bacon Whitney Jr. and seven stepchildren, Lilias K. Bo
 DINKES -- Estelle. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of William and Linda. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Daniel Efron, Jodi and Mark Hurwitz, Jamie and Scott Berger. Adoring great grandmother of Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy, and Jordan. Sister of Jerry and Dorothy, and t
 GOLD--Deena. Beloved wife of Gilbert and mother of David, Susan and Bill. Sister of George Israel and Carol Kuller. Her grandchildren, Nathan, Joshua, Sophia, Daniel, Zachary and Chloe were the joy of her life. She will be dearly missed. Contributions in her memory can be sent to Temple Ema
 LASKER--Betty Ann, 63, died in Burlington, VT April 20, 2004. Born in the Bronx, NY May 6, 1940. Daughter of Max and Gertrude Wasserman. Survived by her husband, Milton, two children, Seth and Cynthia, two grandchildren, Moriah and Alex, all of Burlington, sister, Bobby Minsky of Floral Par
 MILLMAN GILROD -- Ber nice, born October 19, 1916, in Far Rockaway, NY, died April 13 in San Francisco, CA. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Brooklyn College and had a respected 50-year career as a women's merchandise executive in the Garment Center. She will be greatly loved and missed by
 PARK -- Rosemary. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Barnard College are saddened by the death of Rosemary Park, who provided inspiring leadership as President of Barnard from 19621967. A vital figure in higher education and a leading advocate for women's advancement, she was a wise and tho
 ROSENBERG--Talia. Born in Israel, late of New York City and East Hampton, suddenly passed away at the age of 60 on April 20, 2004. She will be profoundly missed by her numerous and international family of friends and Mooshie. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Friday, 11:15AM. Contribut
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Hanna (Putti). We mourn the passing of our beloved wife, mother, sister, grandmother, great grandmother and friend. She will be remembered for her dignity, elegance and intellect.       
 Mary McGrory, an unapologetic liberal who chronicled 50 years of scandal, war, Congressional turmoil and political heartbreak as a columnist for The Washington Star and The Washington Post, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital. She was 85. Ms. McGrory won the P
 DINKES -- Estelle. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of William and Linda. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Daniel Efron, Jodi and Mark Hurwitz, Jamie and Scott Berger. Adoring great grandmother of Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy, and Jordan. Sister of Jerry and Dorothy, and t
 GOLD--Deena. Beloved wife of Gilbert and mother of David, Susan and Bill. Sister of George Israel and Carol Kuller. Her grandchildren, Nathan, Joshua, Sophia, Daniel, Zachary and Chloe were the joy of her life. She will be dearly missed. Contributions in her memory can be sent to Temple Ema
 KAZER MINKOWSKY--Estelle (nee Taxin), died peacefully at home at age 87. Mother of Ross and Henry. Grandmother of Charlie, Sam, Marni and Felicia. Owner/director Camp OrinSekwa. Advocate for women's and Jewish causes. Will be forever missed by devoted family and her many friends.       
 RAIZEN--Nancy. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Nancy Raizen and extend sincere condolences to her family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 SOBEL--Lily Chinchin. Survived by her beloved children, Lloyd Sobel, Robert Sobel and Lesley Chinchin. Loving daughter-in-law, Betty Wytias. Adored grandson, Will Louis Wytias-Sobel. Memorial service Sunday, 3PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel of New Jersey, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, NJ.   
 WIMPFHEIMER--Hanna S. We extend deepest sympathy to the Wimpfheimer family, and sister Edith Rosenberg. A Silver Founder with her beloved husband Ernst, Putti raised her children Paul, Charles and Lee and lived her life according to the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics. Her ele
 BAUMSTEIN--Dorothy, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was born in Ostrowietz, Poland. She and her husband Bernard survived the Nazis and helped others do the same. In 1946 they were brought to New York by Bernard's older brothers and made a new life in the Bronx with their daughter 
 BROOK--Susan, 63, died on April 22, 2004 following a recent accident. She is survived by devoted husband Michael, loving daughter Kira, stepchildren Mandy Shear and Scott Brook and Julie and Daniel Brook; adoring grandchildren Zev and Isaiah, mother-in-law Anne Brook and special friend Kelw
 FISHMAN -- Miriam Kessin. Born on March 24, 1914. Died Wednesday, April 21, 2004 at her residence in NYC. Devoted wife of the late Irving. Beloved mother of Charlotte (Alan Sparer) and Freda. Loving grandmother of Anna and Julia Sparer. Also survived by many much-loved nieces and cousins. A
 KAYDEN--Suzanne, on April 22nd, 2004. She will be missed by many people. A member of Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, Hadassah, National Council of Jewish Women and many other Jewish and unaffiliated charities. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Buria
 MCCRADY--Anna Valente, on April 22, 2004. Beloved daughter of Laura Guerra and Tucker McCrady. A beautiful little girl who touched many people's lives. She will be greatly missed by all. Service Monday 4 PM at The Riverside, 76th St & Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions in he
 ORLAND--Helen Kurtz. Born in New York, July 25, 1918, passed away in Los Angeles, Ca., April 20, 2004. She graduated Hunter College and received a Master's degree from Columbia University Teachers College. She survived her parents Ray and Aaron Kurtz and her brother Lieutenant Commander Geo
 RAIZEN--Nancy (nee Barovick), on April 22, 2004. Beloved and caring wife for 46 years of Roy. Devoted and loving mother to David and Danielle Raizen, Susan and Reid Sperber and Jill and Robert Serling. Adored and proud grandma of Katie, Jordan, Spencer, Austin and Emily. Sister of Seth and 
 AFFELDER -- Jane E., Raleigh, NC. Mrs. Jane Eisner Affelder passed away April 20, 2004. She was born on July 1, 1914 in Providence, RI to Theodore and Sadie Eisner. She lived most of her life in New York City. She was preceded in death by her husband Paul Affelder. Mrs. Affelder is survived
 BAUMSTEIN--Dorothy, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was born in Ostrowietz, Poland. She and her husband Bernard survived the Nazis and helped others do the same. In 1946 they were brought to New York by Bernard's older brothers and made a new life in the Bronx with their daughter 
 BLUMENTHAL--Ruth Stanton. Died on April 23, 2004. Born in Boston, MA on June 12, 1917; lived in Great Neck, NY, West Palm Beach, FL and Durham, NC. Survived by her daughter, Leda Blumenthal of Atlanta, GA; her son, James Blumenthal of Chapel Hill, NC and his wife, Daphne; granddaughter, Mar
 BROOK--Susan, 63, died on April 22, 2004 following a recent accident. She is survived by devoted husband Michael, loving daughter Kira, stepchildren Mandy Shear and Scott Brook and Julie and Daniel Brook; adoring grandchildren Zev and Isaiah, mother-in-law Anne Brook and special friend Kelw
 CARTER--Susan M. 76, died on April 21, 2004, of emphysema. Beloved wife of Frederic D. Carter Jr. for 53 years. She is also survived by her daughter Alice Shackelford Carter, her son Frederic D. Carter III, her daughter-in-law Andrea Husher Carter, and two grandsons Derek and Douglas. A mem
 FISHMAN -- Miriam Kessin. Born on March 24, 1914. Died Wednesday, April 21, 2004 at her residence in NYC. Devoted wife of the late Irving. Beloved mother of Charlotte (Alan Sparer) and Freda. Loving grandmother of Anna and Julia Sparer. Also survived by many much-loved nieces and cousins. A
 GORLIN--Harriet McMillan, 88, of Easton, CT, died on Tuesday, April 20, 2004 in Danbury Hospital. She is survived by her husband, Jack; two daughters, Catherine Gorlin of Darien, CT and Rachel Gorlin of Washington, DC; a sister, Carol Lawes of West Grove, PA; and a brother, Donald McMillan 
 KAYDEN--Suzanne, on April 22nd, 2004. She will be missed by many people. A member of Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, Hadassah, National Council of Jewish Women and many other Jewish and unaffiliated charities. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Buria
 ORLAND--Helen Kurtz. Born in New York, July 25, 1918, passed away in Los Angeles, Ca., April 20, 2004. She graduated Hunter College and received a Master's degree from Columbia University Teachers College. She survived her parents Ray and Aaron Kurtz and her brother Lieutenant Commander Geo
 RAIZEN--Nancy. The Board of Directors and Staff of the JCC of Mid-Westchester are profoundly saddened by the loss of our esteemed President, Nancy Raizen. Nancy was a dedicated leader whose spirit, passion and caring will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to the entire Raizen family, who 
 ROSENBERG--Talia. Born in Israel, late of New York City and East Hampton, suddenly passed away at the age of 60 on April 20, 2004. She will be profoundly missed by her numerous and international family of friends and Mooshie. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Friday, 11:15AM. Contribut
 WHITRIDGE--Elizabeth. On Easter Sunday, April 11, 2004, in her garden, Deer Harbor (Orcas Island), Washington, age 82. Wife and best friend of Frederick, mother to David, Arnold, Thomas and Frederick; grandmother of nine; a great grandmother.       
 WORSLEY -- Joyce. The American Musical and Dramatic Academy mourns the death of Joyce Worsley. It is with great sadness that we learned of the passing of Ms. Worsley. Ms. Worsley, who enjoyed a distinguished acting career in England and the United States, was associated with Philip Burton i
 ZANANIRI SOLDATI--Ariane. Passed away on Easter Tuesday, 13 April 2004, surrounded by her sons and daughters, Sabrina, Victoria, Yasmina, Francisco and Maria Jose. Buenos Aires, Argentina. Donations to: FUNDALEU, Buenos Aires, direccionejecutiva @fundaleu.org.ar       
 Este Lauder, the last great independent titan of the cosmetics industry, who convinced generations of women that her beauty creams were ''jars of hope'' in their quest for the eternal look of youth, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her family, in announcin
 ANASTOS--Rosemary Park. Prominent educator, passed away quietly in her home in Los Angeles, CA, on Saturday, April 17, at the age of 97. She earned her doctorate in German literature at the University of Cologne in 1934 with a dissertation on Richard Wagner. She was a Professor of German an
 BROOK--Susan, 63, died on April 22, 2004 following a recent accident. She is survived by devoted husband Michael, loving daughter Kira, stepchildren Mandy Shear and Scott Brook and Julie and Daniel Brook; adoring grandchildren Zev and Isaiah, mother-in-law Anne Brook and special friend Kelw
 EDWARDS--Nancy, Dr. Died suddenly on April 23, 2004. Beloved wife of Bill. Loving mother of Julie and Michael, and sister of Phyllis and her husband Mel. She will be missed by all whose lives she touched. Service Tuesday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 IRWIN--Randi P. (nee Pedersen). Of Monroe Township, NJ, and Turtle Bay, Manhattan, peacefully while asleep after a long illness on April 24, 2004, at age 78. Beloved and loving wife of Richard. Friends will be received at Meislohn - Silvie Funeral Home Inc., 1289 Forest Avenue, Staten Islan
 SELTER--Helen. Of Suffern, NY, formerly of Long Beach, NY, passed away on April 24, 2004, at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Isidore. Devoted mother of Eileen and Paul Josephart and Joel and Beth Selter. Adored grandmother of Jill and Adam Josephart, Yael, Eitan, Aliza, Isaac and Isabelle 
 Rosemary Park Anastos, an advocate for women's education and the liberal arts and a former president of Barnard College and Connecticut College for Women, died April 17 at her home in Los Angeles, said a niece, Joan Citron. She was 97. Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came
 BRILL--Stacey Ravner, 42, formerly of Solebury Township, PA, Thursday, April 22, 2004, at her home in Florida. Daughter of the late Ira and Miriam Ravner. She was the beloved wife of Patrick. Devoted mother of Cameron. Cherished sister of Barbra. Graveside services will be Wednesday, 2 P.M.
 EDWARDS--Nancy, Dr. Died suddenly on April 23, 2004. Beloved wife of Bill. Loving mother of Julie and Michael, and sister of Phyllis and her husband Mel. She will be missed by all whose lives she touched. Service Tuesday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. EDWA
 LAUDER--Estee. The members of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art express our heartfelt sadness to the family of Estee Lauder. Estee Lauder was an extraordinary woman whose devotion to her family, genius for business, international vision, and generosity to the many causes
 NILES--Dorothy K., 102, of Bronxville, NY and Monmouth Beach, NJ. Died April 25. Beloved wife of the late Edward T. Niles. She is survived by four daughters: Sarah Leonard of Bronxville, NY, Mary Kay ''Millie'' Cooper of Summit NJ, Dorothy Ann Coyne of Ann Arbor, MI and Patricia Dohrenwend 
 TIFFANY -- Winifred (nee Teichgraeber). On April 23, 2004. Weetzie was a longtime resident of Pelham, NY, lately of Southbury, CT. Graduate of Vassar College in 1947. Survived by her husband Robert M. Tiffany. A beloved mother and grandmother, she is survived by Susan T. Pugh, Dr. Peter N. 
 VAN ANDEN--Kristin. 63, died peacefully on April 26, 2004 in Bearsville, N.Y. Loving mother of Jehanne and Ryder Henry, cherished sister of Brenda Walker Swords and Gwyneth Walker. She will be missed by all whose lives she touched.       
 WALKER -- Willie Elazar. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the father of Brenda Walker Eisenberg and extends our heartfelt condolences to her and the bereaved family.       
 HAZAN -- Leslie. To my daughter on her 41st birthday, you are missed today and always.       
 Mary Selway, the grand dame of British casting agents, who selected bouquets of cinematic talent for directors like Steven Spielberg, Roman Polanski and Clint Eastwood, died on April 21 in London, where she lived. She was 68. The cause was cancer, said Nina Baron, a spokeswoman for 
 BERKO--Lorraine. We mourn the loss our beloved sister-inlaw and aunt. Her pride in her children and grandchildren was boundless as was our love for her. Honie, Jerry, Karen, Amy, and Ron       
 DUFFY--Katherine (nee Mc Bride) on April 26 of Manhasset, NY, passed away at home surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late James V. Dear mother of Patricia, James, Cathy and the late honorable John M. Duffy. Devoted Grandmother of 12 and great-grandmother of seven great-grandsons 
 DWYER--Jane Estelle Broadus (Hudson). Dancer, actress, teacher, garden grower, wife, lover, mother, grandmother, and creative force extraordinaire. Died of cancer in Pittsfield, MA on Monday morning, April 26, 2004, two days short of her sixtyfifth birthday. Her loss is mourned and her life
 EDWARDS -- Nancy. The Board of Directors and Members of the NYU Post Doctoral Psychoanalytic Society extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Nancy Edwards. She was an esteemed colleague, a prolific writer, sensitive clinician and trusted friend. Her admirable and heroic efforts to fi
 FIFE--Martin. The Board and staff of the New York League of Conservation Voters offer our sincere condolences to Barbara Fife, our Board member and Vice Chair, on the loss of her husband Martin. Our thoughts are with her and the family. Marcia Bystryn, Exec Dir. Charles Warren, Chair Carol 
 LAUDER--Estee. The faculty members and staff of The Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya (IDC) in Israel and the members of the board of directors and staff of The American Friends of IDC are saddened by the passing of Mrs. Estee Lauder, beloved mother of Mr. Ronald S. Lauder, a member of the 
 ROSEMAN--Reta (nee Mills), 85, of Yonkers, N.Y., Narragansett, R.I. and Ft. Lauderdale, FL, died April 24, 2004. She was the beloved wife of Lou Roseman, proud mother of Gael Roseman Sutter and Dr. Bruce Roseman, adored grandmother of Justin and Lauren, Michele and Daniel and brothers Irvin
 SCHWEINLER--Claire ''Mimi'' Brulatour. Of Orange, CT, formerly of Essex Fells on April 27, 2004. Wife of Carl L. Funeral Mass at St. Joseph's Church, 44 Benvenue Ave, West Orange, NJ on Friday at 11AM. The family will receive their friends at the QuinnHopping Funeral Home of Livingston, 145
 SPINGARN--Georgette. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Georgette Spingarn. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 WALLER--Jeanne P. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers mourn the loss of Jeanne P. Waller, founding member of the Board of Directors, hospice patron and valued friend. In addition to her many contributions as Board member and volunteer, Jeanne was the driving force 
 BERKO--Lorraine. We mourn the loss our beloved sister-inlaw and aunt. Her pride in her children and grandchildren was boundless as was our love for her. Honie, Jerry, Karen, Amy, and Ron BERKO--Lorraine. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep
 FIFE--Martin. Regional Plan Association's Board of Directors and staff extend their condolences to Barbara Fife, Board member and friend, upon the passing of her husband, Martin. Peter W. Herman, Chairman Robert D. Yaro, President       
 LAUDER--Estee. The Aleph Society mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, mother of our esteemed benefactors Hon. Ronald S. Lauder and Leonard A. Lauder. The legacy of her loving-kindness continues through the good deeds and the grace of her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May t
 SESHOLTZ--Anna, on April 27, 2004, age 94. Beloved mother of Dr. Marilyn Sesholtz of NYC and Walter Sesholtz of Secaucus, NJ. Cherished grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister, aunt, and friend. Her love of life and family, indomitable spirit, and sense of humor were present to the last. She 
 BAUM--Bertha (nee Maier). Lived a full 85 years. Preceded in death by her loving husband Lyman. Survived by her loving daughters Kathi Schulman & Liz Baum and sons-inlaw Barry & Ed. Adored grandmother to Marisa & Lauren and Zachary. Funeral Friday 12 noon, ''Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Ch
 KOFFLER--Ruth, 85, died on April 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Irving; devoted mother to Sandra, Cindy, Michael and the late David; adored grandmother of Daniel, Brian, Ian and Josh. Cherished sister of Shirley. Always a smile, loved her family, loved life. Will be missed forever. Fune
 RATLIFF--Jennie. Died April 25, at age 65, of ALS, at her home in Norwich, VT. Here's to a life well lived, from her husband, Marcus Ratliff, and sons Marcus and Ben; her four grandsons will remember her love, intelligence, elegance, generosity, and Christmas crackers.       
 ROONEY--Marguerite. The Directors, Trustees and Staff of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve mourn the loss of our Chairman, Marge Rooney. Marge was an extraordinary woman and inspired us all with her selfless commitment to the Preserve and our community. Her humor and generous heart will alway
 SIMELS--Lilyan K., 89, of Southbury, CT, died April 28, 2004. Beloved wife of the late William Simels; sister of the late Ruth Kasloff; former National V.P. of American Jewish Congress; former President, NY Chapter American Jewish Congress; teacher. Survived by her son Robert Simels and Tob
 TUNKLE--Sophie, 86, died April 24 in Miami, FL. She is survived by a daughter, Edith Marti of Queens, NY and a son, Paul Tunkle of Baltimore, MD and four grandchildren. Memorial service will be held at a family residence on Monday, May 3. Contact family for details.       
 WALLER -- Jeanne Pollak, Westhampton Beach, NY, died peacefully in her home April 26. She was a former director of the Westhampton Free Library. A co-founder of East End Hospice, she founded the Hospice Thrift Shop. She leaves her children, Linda, Nancy, and Bill Cahan and two grandchildren
