 Muriel Topaz, the former director of the Dance Notation Bureau and the dance division of the Juilliard School, and an authority on the choreography of Antony Tudor, died on Monday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 70 and lived in Milford, Conn. The cause was liver dise
 Ella King Torrey, former president of the San Francisco Art Institute and an innovative arts administrator, died Wednesday at her home in San Francisco. She was 45. Her family did not disclose the cause of death. Ms. Torrey, who was called by both her first and middle names,
 Sue Sally Hale, who broke American polo's sex barrier in 1972 when she gained membership in the sport's national governing body after playing matches disguised as a man for two decades, died last Tuesday at her ranch in Coachella, Calif. She was 65. The cause was a ruptured aorta, h
 Suzy Parker, the willowy, red-headed beauty whose elegant poses on scores of magazine covers defined glamour in the 1950's and paved the way for the supermodels to follow, died on Saturday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 69. Her husband, the actor Bradford Dillman, said she
 Marie-Claude Lalique, keeper of the Lalique family tradition in glass and crystal artistry until her retirement in 1994, died on April 14 on Captiva Island, Fla. She was 67 and lived on Captiva and in Provence. The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said. Ms. L
 Jocelyn Herbert, a noted British stage designer, died on Tuesday in London. She was 86. She is remembered in Britain for her austere, intelligently illuminated and evocative stage settings. They included the sets for the 1964 production of ''Othello,'' with Laurence Olivier, at the 
 Elizabeth Neuffer, the award-winning foreign correspondent for The Boston Globe who died on Friday in in an automobile accident in Iraq, had traveled there to cover the aftermath of the war. She was 46. Ms. Neuffer was a passenger in a car that apparently struck a guardrail near Sam
 Dr. Judianne Densen-Gerber, a lawyer and psychiatrist who founded the drug treatment program Odyssey House and went on to give widely quoted but sometimes disputed testimony on subjects like child abuse and pornography, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 68. The cause was cancer, 
 June Carter Cash, a singer, songwriter and actress and the wife and collaborator of Johnny Cash, died yesterday in Nashville. She was 73. She had been critically ill since having surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve. Of all her accomplishments, the b
 Dame Wendy Hiller, the distinguished English stage and screen actress who was George Bernard Shaw's choice to play two of his most famous heroines, Eliza Doolittle and Major Barbara, died on Wednesday at her home in Beaconsfield, England. She was 90. Dame Wendy's performances were c
 Celine G. Marcus, former executive director of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, an East Side social services organization, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 93. She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director
 Helen Jones Carter, a former sculptor and the wife of the composer Elliott Carter, died on Saturday at the couple's home in Manhattan. She was 95. Born in Jersey City on July 4, 1907, Mrs. Carter trained as an artist at the Art Students League in New York, studying primarily with th
 The performer who used the stage name Pepper LaBeija as a glamorous queen of the Harlem drag balls immortalized in the 1991 documentary ''Paris Is Burning'' died on May 14 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She, as she preferred to be called, was 53. A woman who answered the teleph
 Rachel Kempson, the matriarch of the Redgrave acting clan and one of the clarion voices of British stage and screen, died on Saturday at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 92. Miss Kempson was perhaps the least known of the Redgraves in the United States. But in Britain her perform
 Kathleen Winsor, whose 1944 novel ''Forever Amber,'' detailing the sexual adventures of a young woman in Restoration England, became a model for romantic best sellers to follow, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83. ''Miss Winsor, if she felt so inclined, could justif
 Erika Fromm, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Chicago and an expert on the use of hypnosis in therapy, died on Monday at her home in Chicago. She was 93. Dr. Fromm considered hypnosis a valuable analytical tool that, when used by a skilled practitioner, could
 Franchellie Margaret Cadwell, one of the first women to own a national advertising agency and a strong advocate of change in the image of women in advertisements, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was brain cancer, said her friend and financial adviser R
 Janet Collins, prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House in the early 1950's and one of a very few black women to become prominent in American classical ballet, died on Wednesday in Fort Worth. She was 86 and lived there. Ms. Collins taught dance, choreographed, performed on B
 Martha Scott, who created the role of the sweet, ethereal Emily in the original Broadway production of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' and was nominated for an Oscar for repeating it in the film version, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 88. Miss Scott's trademark was warm si
