 Charlotte Selver, a teacher of sensory awareness who helped inspire the school of psychology that came to be known as the human potential movement, died on Aug. 22 at her home in Muir Beach, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 102. In classes and individual sessions held as recently
 A memorial service for the pianist and Bach scholar Rosalyn Tureck will be held on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Lowenstein Auditorium at Temple Emanu-El, 10 East 66th Street, Manhattan. She died on July 17 at age 88. The service, which will be open to the public, will include excerpts f
 Susan Chilcott, a leading British soprano who had a winning Metropolitan Opera debut last year as Helena in Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and received glowing reviews last June for her Royal Opera at Covent Garden debut as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades,'' opposite Plácido
 Judith Arango Henderson, a design expert, curator and columnist whose Miami retail store, Arango Inc., was one of the first to specialize in midcentury modern design, died on July 12 in Piedmont, Calif. She was 75 and lived there and in Miami. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her fa
 Marilyn E. Marlow, a literary agent who represented and championed many outstanding children's book writers and illustrators, especially those who wrote for teenage readers, died on Aug. 25 at the home of her niece Meg McCabe in Katonah, N.Y. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 Gisele MacKenzie, the Canadian singing star of the 1950's television show ''Your Hit Parade,'' died on Friday in Burbank, Calif. She was 76. The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter, Gigi Downs. Although she was known mainly for her contralto voice, Ms. MacKenzie also t
 Leni Riefenstahl, the German filmmaker whose daringly innovative documentaries about a Nazi rally in Nuremberg in 1934 and the Berlin Olympics of 1936 earned her both acclaim as a cinematic genius and contempt as a propagandist for Hitler, died on Monday night at her home in Pöcking, south
 Anna Lindh, who died early yesterday at the age of 46 after a stabbing attack, was one of Sweden's most popular politicians. A lifelong member of the governing Social Democrats, she had been mentioned as a future party leader. In 1998, when she became foreign minister under Prime Minister G
 Marie Foster, a dental technician whose quiet but effective efforts to win voting rights for blacks made her a national symbol when she was beaten by the police in the Selma, Ala., voting rights march in 1965, died on Saturday in Selma. She was 85. She was one of the original eight 
 Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was cancer, said 
 Althea Gibson, the first black player to win Wimbledon and the United States national tennis championship and a pre-eminent figure in women's tennis, died yesterday in East Orange, N.J. She was 76. Gibson, who had been in poor health for many years, died at East Orange General Hospi
 Althea Gibson emerged in the tennis world of the 1950's as a most unlikely queen of the lawns of Wimbledon and Forest Hills. In 1950 she became the first black to compete in the United States nationals. She won 56 tournaments, including five Grand Slam singles titles -- the United S
 Catharine Crozier, a versatile organist who played at the inaugural concerts of the instruments at both Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, died Sept. 19 in Portland, Ore. She was 89. Ms. Crozier specialized in French music, ranging from Baroque composers like 
