 ALLEN-Doris A. (nee Condon). Age 70, of Leonia, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Robert Allen. Mother of the late Robert, Richard and Terry Stotts. Sister of James (Patricia) Condon, Jane (Illinois State Senator Wendell E.) Jones and Warren (late Carol) Condon. Aunt of Mildred Schroeder and man
 BEREZUK-Lillian. Aunt Lilly passed away peacefully August 29, 2002, at 4:44 PM. We are certain three fours will get her straight to heaven. Preceded in death by her husband Nicholas Berezuk. She is being mourned by four nephews and nieces, eight grandnephews and nieces, loving in-laws and f
 GOTTESMAN - Gertrude. Passed away on August 30, at the age of 92. Beloved wife of Dr. James Gottesman, mother or Dr. Max and Dr. David Gottesman, and grandmother of Evan, Brian, Betsy, Zachary, Julie, Scott, Bart, Krissy and Jill. She was a teacher and a guidance counselor in the New York C
 HERSHCOPF - Berta Ruth. Passed away on August 25, 2002, of metastic breast cancer, peacefully at home in her sleep. Beloved wife of Jack, mother of Shelley, Amy and David, grandmother of Azriel, Maaseiah, Aviva Rahel, Solomon, Samuel, Asher and Ariel Rose. A celebration of her life will be 
 McCABE-Lee. Of Newport, RI, and Jupiter, FL, passed away on August 30, 2002, at home in Newport. Born in New York City in 1921, she is survived by her longtime companion, Kathleen O'Connell. Lee worked at the New York Times from the 1940's through the mid 1950's. She was the editor of the S
 MORRIS-Ethel. Patient, caring, enduring wife of Joseph and mother of Jeff and Bob. The embodiment of selflessness, even as she struggled through her last years, she will be missed as the devoted listener of her family. Her sisters Phyllis and Beverly, daughter-in-law Janet, and grandchildre
 NOUN-Louise Rosenfield. 94 of Des Moines, Iowa died August 23, 2002. Memorial Services will be 11 a.m., Saturday September 14, 2002 at the Iowa State Historical Building in Des Moines. Louise was a life long Feminist, Philanthropist, Author and Social activist. Her grandson survives her: Ja
 ORDEN-Patricia (nee Steele). Deeply loved wife of Morris. Beloved sister of Benita, Joscelyn, Marilyn and Richard. Cherished aunt. Graveside service 2PM Sunday, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, N.Y. For transportation to cemetery, speak to a Director at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 2127
 PRINCE-Cecelia, on August 28, 2002, at age 102, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Dear wife of the late Joseph E. Prince. Beloved mother of Dr. Ivin B. Prince and Suzanne Prince Benjamin. Cherished grandmother, great- and greatgreat-grandmother. Loving sister of Blanche Taxier and Arthur C. Bittker.
 ROGAL-Eva (nee Winakor), age 97, died at her home in Florida on August 29, 2002. Devoted to her family, she was the wife of the late Benjamin. Adored mother of Marcia Rogal and Robert Rogal of NYC. Loved mother-inlaw of Gail Rogal and Bruce Rebhun. Services Lakeside Cemetery 12:30, Sunday, 
 SWIERSKI-Lee. 64, died peacefully at home after a valiant battle with cancer. She joins in heaven her father, Raymond F. Riley, and her sister, Ellen Riley. The family members she leaves behind to celebrate her beautiful life are her husband, Ron, her mother, Leonore Riley, her daughter Lyn
 TANNENBAUM-Muriel. Our cherished friend. Elegant and graceful within and without. Loving, nurturing, wise and questioning, always giving and inspiring. A righteous woman who illuminated our lives, challenging us, pushing us to learn and to understand, to take care of others and to take care
 JOACHIM-Dorothy. On September 1, 2002. Beloved mother of Sondra. Cherished grandmother of Mindy, Jeffrey and Judy, and greatgrandmother of Tom, Edit and Elliott. Graveside service Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. JOACHIM-Dorothy. It was an honor to have been he
 SINGER-Frances H. On August 29, 100 years old. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother and great-great-grandmother. Cherished by all who knew her. Talented card player, avid Yankee fan; feisty, bright and sharp witted to the end! Graveside ceremony Tuesday, September 3, 2:30 PM
 SPIELVOGEL-Roslyn Bremer. On August 31. Deeply loved and devoted mother of David, Rachel and Paul. Beloved grandmother of Daniel, Carly and Jake. Cherished sister of the late Arnold, Sidney and Florence Bremer. She enriched and enhanced the lives of others with her beauty, warmth, intellect
 FRIEDMAN-Phoebe, 72. Of Aventura, FL, passed away on August 31, 2002. Beloved daughter of Francis. Beloved wife of the late David. Adored mom of Meryl and Van, Sigi and Ned. Proud grandma of Brette, Kirk, Margo, and Lana. Dear sister of Joyce. Graveside service will be held at Beth David Ce
 HENNING-Martha E. (nee Norbury). Of Washington Township NJ. On August 31. Beloved mother of Jean H. Cockcroft and the late Carol H. Shaw of New York City. Dear wife of the late Arthur F. Henning, VP of Chase Manhattan Bank. Devoted grandmother of Tristan Henning Cockcroft and John V. Cockcr
 POPOLIZIO-Maria A. nee Tarangelo, 84. On August 30, 2002. Devoted mother of Valerie Lindquist, Donna Rosenfield and the late Hon. Michael F. Popolizio. Employed by the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of NY for more than two decades and President of the Greenwich Village Chapter of t
 SPIELVOGEL-Roslyn Bremer. On August 31. Deeply loved and devoted mother of David, Rachel and Paul. Beloved grandmother of Daniel, Carly and Jake. Cherished sister of the late Arnold, Sidney and Florence Bremer. She enriched and enhanced the lives of others with her beauty, warmth, intellect
 STEINER-Mildred Augusta. On August 22. Teacher and guidance counselor. She subsidized day care centers and medical clinics in Israel.       
 WANDER-Arlene. August 31, 2002. Deeply loved and devoted mother of Robert & David, beloved grandmother of Aron and Jonah and friend to many. She enriched the lives of others with her warmth, friendship, wit, intellect and beauty. Though gone from our sights, she will forever live in our hea
 WEICHSELBAUM-Toby. Beloved wife, devoted mother and mother-in-law, loving grandmother and cherished sister-in-law and aunt. A lover of life and a friend to all. We will miss her laughter, her love and her advice.       
 Jenny Bell Bechtel Whyte, a fashion designer whose creations included dresses made from African printed textiles and clothing made from antique fabrics from three other continents, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Singer Division, a hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 and lived on the Upper East
 FRIEDMAN-Phoebe. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Phoebe Friedman, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her 
 HERTZ-Margaret S. Beloved wife of Rudolf. Devoted mother of Michael Hertz and Shelley Kempner. Cherished grandmother of Rachel, Jeremy, Jonathan and Daniel. Loving cousin of Ruth Mayer. Former Chairman, Biology Department, C.W. Post College. Contributions may be made in her name to St. Fran
 LEBOUCHER - Fernande. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of Fernande Leboucher. She demonstrated courage and compassion working together with Father Marie Benoit to save hundreds of Jewish lives in France and Italy during Word War II. The entire Jewish world owes her a profound d
 MIRKEN-Barbara, September 2, 2002. Cherished and loving wife of Alan, devoted mother of Leslie and Mitchell Rubin, and Jane and Richard Zenker; adored grandmother of Matthew Rubin, and Andrew and Scott Zenker; sister of Frances Brandt and Eileen Mack. Caring and selfless, she brought warmth
 NAPOLITANO - Mary Eli zabeth. 55, critically acclaimed oil painter, died suddenly in her Upper West Side apartment on August 30, 2002. She graduated from Jersey City State College, summa cum laude, and earned a Masters of Fine Arts degree at City College, NYC. She traveled extensively, and 
 PERLS - Amelia (nee Blumenthal). Died peacefully at home August 29, 2002 at age 89 following a long illness. Born in Philadelphia, Dolly attended Smith College and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia Teachers College before teaching in her own nursery school. In 1940 
 POPOLIZIO-Maria A. nee Tarangelo, 84. On August 30, 2002. Devoted mother of Valerie Lindquist, Donna Rosenfield and the late Hon. Michael F. Popolizio. Employed by the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of NY for more than two decades and President of the Greenwich Village Chapter of t
 WEISSMAN-Hope P. The Faculty, Students and Alumni/ ae of Wesleyan University's College of Letters, mourn the death of Professor Hope Weissman. She was a dedicated colleague, an extraordinary and daring intellectual, and a devoted teacher. Since 1974 she provided us with a unique spark, and 
 WILLNER-Blanche. It is with great sadness that the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Blanche Willner, cherished friend and benefactor of the Weizmann Institute, and beloved wife of Dr. Albert Willner, President of the American Committee for the W
 FELDMAN-Louise W. On September 4, 2002. Beloved wife of Bernard and devoted mother of Barbara, Peter and Richard. A woman whose generosity and loyalty endeared her to all who had the good fourtune to know her. Caring and sensitive, she will live on within all of us. Private interment at Mou
 GARLEY - Sister Louise, O.S.B. Prioress of the Benedictine Sisters of Elizabeth, New Jersey. Surviving are her cousins, John O'Neill, George Dunphey, Daniel Sullivan, Janet Genatt, Margaret Wovna, Alice Oberwanowicz, Gertrude Mullin, as well as her Benedictine community. Relatives and frien
 GOODMAN-Frances D. Age 94, of Hawthorne, NJ, on September 3. Generous of spirit, inspiring Teacher and constant in her love of family. Survived by her loving children Sara Silbiger and husband Tom, Thomas Singman and wife Karen Kaufman, stepdaughter Sarah Shuman and husband John, loving gra
 SHAPIRO-Gertrude. On September 2, 2002, age 86. Wife of the late Norman. Loving mother of Linda and Allen, and the late Adrienne. Attentive grandmother of Alex. Beloved sister of Aaron. Devoted aunt and great-aunt. She will be remembered for her compassionate spirit, intelligence, strength,
 WEINTRAUB-''Sweet'' Lorraine. Of Aventura, FL, passed away Wednesday September 4, 2002. She is the beloved wife of Morton Weintraub. Loving mother of Benson (Hope) Weintraub, and Jayne Weintraub (Jon) Sale. Dear sister of Annette (Larry) Blitzer. Cherished grandmother of six. Services and i
 WELLS-Katharine A. Teacher, historian; Dr. Wells was born in Pittsburgh, PA, July 16, 1905, the daughter of John Allen and Caroline Brentnall Powell, and died in Southbury, CT, where she lived in Heritage Village, on September 3, 2002. She was a graduate of Goucher College in Baltimore, MD,
 WILLNER-Blanche (nee Dornfeld). Loving and beloved wife of Dr. Albert Willner. Cherished mother of Drs. Joseph Willner and Jane Bloomgarden. Devoted mother-in-law of Drs. David Bloomgarden & Judith Wilner. The best grandmother to Noah, Zachary, and Joshua Bloomgarden and Daniel, Rachel, and
 ABRAHAM - Martha (nee Fleischmann). Born February 4, 1910, Ebelsbach, Germany, died September 4, 2002, NYC. Martha will be mourned by her husband, Gerard, and her family and friends. Graveside service today at 11 AM, Cedar Park, Paramus NJ       
 McCLOSKEY-Elizabeth M. Of Point Lookout, LI. On September 4, 2002. Born May 8, 1912, to John F. McCloskey and Elizabeth R. Mulhern. Ms. McCloskey was a graduate of Mount St. Vincent in Riverdale, NY, and took her law degree at St. John's University in Queens. She was President and owner of 
 MIRKEN-Barbara. The officers, Board of Directors, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Barbara Mirken, a cherished friend in the UJA-Federation community of caring. Together with her husband, Alan, Mrs. Mirken expressed an extraordinary commitment to i
 ORDEN-Patricia. The Contemporary Arts Council of The Museum of Modern Art mourns the loss of its esteemed member Patricia Orden. Patricia's gracious nature, intelligence, and love of art will be long remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Morris and brother Richar
 PENN-Sylvia Harris. December 10, 1914 to September 3, 2002. Beloved mother of Eileen Penn Posnick and the late Ronald Penn, grandmother of Joshua Posnick, sister of Anne Harris Chanen and the late Dr. Arnold Harris, widow of Yiddish journalist Ascher Penn, mother-inlaw of Michael Posnick, '
 SCHIFF-Gabriele D. (nee Derenberg) Beloved wife of the late Dr. David Schiff. Died peacefully at home on August 31, 2002. Devoted aunt of Lie Tugaye, Anne Dutter and Michael Derenberg. Cousin of Alice Auerbach and Anita Warburg. A lover of life and a friend to many. We will miss her laughte
 SUFRIN - Shirley. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Shirley Sufrin. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WEINTRAUB-''Sweet'' Lorraine (Berenson). Of Aventura, FL, passed away Wednesday, September 4, 2002. She was loved by all, young and old. Services and interment were held Thursday, September 5th. Information Blasberg-Rubin-Zilbert Memorial Chapel: 305-865-2353.       
 COBURN-Ruth (Barnum) in Bedford, MA, September 5, 2002. Wife of Rt. Rev. John B. Coburn, formerly of St. James Church, NYC. Mother of Judith Coburn Klein of Newton, MA, Sarah Coburn Borgeson of Sherborn, MA, Thomas B. Coburn of Canton, NY, Michael C. Coburn of Providence, RI and the late Cy
 MARCUS-Ray (Bernstein). Passed away on September 5, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Mother of Neil, Erica, and Jay. Sister of Sonny. Active in her Concord Village Community. Services will be held at Congregation Mount Sinai, 250 Cadman Plaza West, Brooklyn, NY, Monday 11:30 AM. Donatio
 CHEN-Lily Men-Li (Hwang Men-Li). 60, of Whippany, NJ, died September 4, 2002, from cancer. Deeply loved, she will be missed by her husband Jimmy Chen, her sons Austin and Andrew Chen, her granddaughter Amelia Chen, her sister Cindy Chiang, her brother James Hwang, her brother-in-law Albert 
 EDELSTON - Jocelyn. Award-winning artist succumbed to cancer August 15 at age 51, after a valiant four year struggle. Her parents are Henry and Arlene Jacobs of New York City, East Hampton and Longboat Key. Contributions to Rockport Art Association, 12 Main St., Rockport, MA 01966.       
 HAWKINS-Sylvia. 90, longtime resident of Redding, CT, died on September 5, at the Wilton Meadows Nursing Home. Mrs. Hawkins was the daughter of Clifford and Beatrix Hawthorne Smyth. Her father was the founder and longtime editor of the New York Times Book Review. On her mother's side, she w
 MAIMAN - BERGER - Sylvia. Of Palm Harbor, FL, and Monroe Township, NJ, and formerly of Woodmere, NY, on September 5, 2002. During 56 years of marriage, best friend, loving wife and business partner of Al Berger. Adored daughter of Lucy Boyer and the late Max Maiman, and the late Morris Boye
 MARCUS-Ray (Bernstein). Passed away on September 5, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Mother of Neil, Erica, and Jay. Sister of Sonny. Active in her Concord Village Community. Services will be held at Congregation Mount Sinai, 250 Cadman Plaza West, Brooklyn, NY, Monday 11:30 AM. Donatio
 PERLS - Amelia (nee Blumenthal). Died peacefully at home August 29, 2002 at age 89 following a long illness. Born in Philadelphia, Dolly attended Smith College and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia Teachers College before teaching in her own nursery school. In 1940 
 SCHAENEN-Fannie (Feldman). ''Lioness of Judah,'' devoted wife of the late Bernard, caring mother of Michael (Pamela) and Susan Gould (Richard), loving grandmother of Inde, Eve, Alexander, Matthew and Annabel, adoring great-grandmother of Stella, Oliver, Nathan, Claire and Leo, and revered a
 SCHIFF-Gabriele D. Selfhelp Community Services, Inc., and United Help, mourn the passing of a devoted staff member of thirty-eight years. Her passionate commitment to services for victims of Nazi persecution inspired everyone with whom she worked.       
 SHAPIRO-Gertrude. On September 2, 2002, age 86. Wife of the late Norman. Loving mother of Linda and Allen, and the late Adrienne. Attentive grandmother of Alex. Beloved sister of Aaron. Devoted aunt and great-aunt. She will be remembered for her compassionate spirit, intelligence, strength,
 SHATIN-Dr. Harriet Evelyn. 85, of Boca Raton, FL, on September 2, 2002. Beloved wife of Leo, adored mother of Deborah, Judith, Dianne and Lisa. Awarded Ph.D. in Microbiology by Boston University (1949), she researched malaria immunization at New York's Public Health Institute, taught at sev
 SPERBER-Bernice C. 74 years young, of Pembroke Pines, Florida, formerly of Lawrence, LI, passed away peacefully at her home on September 2, 2002. Loving Wife, Mother, Nana, Sister, Aunt, and Friend. Funeral services were held September 4, 2002, in Florida.       
 STODDARD - Margery P. Women's Bible Society of New York remembers fondly the 51 years of dedicated service on the Board of Managers and extends condolences to the family of Margery P. Stoddard, who went to her eternal home on Tuesday, August 20, 2002.       
 JOHNSON-Adrienne K. 74, died Thursday, September 5, 2002. She was born in New York City and moved to Manhasset, Long Island as a young girl. Her mother was a medical doctor and her father was a pharmacist, chemist, and perfumer, owning several pharmacies. She loved going to Jones Beach and 
 MAIMAN - BERGER - Sylvia. Of Palm Harbor, FL, and Monroe Township, NJ, and formerly of Woodmere, NY, on September 5, 2002. During 56 years of marriage, best friend, loving wife and business partner of Al Berger. Adored daughter of Lucy Boyer and the late Max Maiman, and the late Morris Boye
 ROGGEMANN - Lynn. Wo men's League for Israel mourns the untimely death of our beloved Lynn Roggemann. A third generation Women's Leaguer, she served in every capacity, from chapter to national officer. She was the Metropolitan Region's president. We will miss her warmth, her intelligence an
 SHALLECK-Leonard. Our deepest sympathies to Kahlia on the loss of her beloved husband Lenny. Lenny was a wonderful, outstanding human being and a great friend. Forever in our hearts, Jane and Joe Pontarelli       
 BANDELL-Eva. On her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Albert, loving mother of Lester and Shirley Bandell, Flo and Eddie Gross, and Rosalie Levine and the late Harold Levine. Caring and devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Services today, 12 noon, at Sherman Flatbush Memorial C
 BRINKERHOFF - Lillian Westaway. Died September 8, after a long illness. Born March 7, 1922 to Lillian Jourdan Westaway and Robert Westaway, president and chairman of A.D. Juilliard and Co. She was raised in Englewood, NJ and Quogue, NY and attended Dwight, Shipley, and Sarah Lawrence. Her m
 FURMAN-Evelyn Katz. September 9, 2002. Beloved wife and mother. Trained as a medical social worker, she was guidance counselor at Riverdale Country School, The Fieldston School, and Brooklyn Poly Prep. Longtime member of the Board of Trustees of the Bronx Organization for the Learning Disab
 GOLD-Ray (Katz). Of Fair Lawn, NJ, on September 5, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Max ''Larry'', cherished mother of Ava (Roger) Brown, Marion and Stanley, and loving grandmother of Taylor and Scott Brown. Her laughter and great strength live on in those she loved-and she lives on with her 
 KLEIN-Florence. 90, passed away August 31, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL. She was the mother of Sandy (Sara Ann) Kane, of Boynton Beach, FL, and Herbert Klein of Aspen, CO. Florence, the daughter of David and Dora Pollock, was born and raised in the Bronx, NY. She was married to Jack Klein, of Je
 LAPIN-Lee (Leah). Age 85, of Sarasota, FL, died September 6, 2002. She was born November 16, 1916, in Paris, France and moved to Sarasota from the New York area in 1988. A widow of the late William Lapin. Survivors include a daughter, Lucy L. Lapides of Lakewood Ranch, FL, a son, Philip of 
 SILVERSTEIN - Gloria. On September 5. Beloved wife of the late George Silverstein. Devoted sister, aunt and friend to many. Gloria was a former model and entertainer who was devoted to many charitable organizations. She was most proud of her work for The Lighthouse and the Sutton area commu
 SMITH - Catherine Grace. Passed away peacefully September 2, 2002 at New York University Medical Center. Catherine held a Master's Degree in Nursing Education, she was project manager and director of Day Surgery at New York University Medical Center until retirement. Memorial Mass, Septembe
 TURNDORF - Ruth Blum berg. Bridgewater, NJ. The legal assistant to the legal department of the city of Paterson for 35 years, died on September 8th. She was 94. Ruth was the wife of prominent attorney Charles Turndorf. Born in New York City, Ruth was raised on the lower east side. After her
 Katrin Cartlidge, a British actress celebrated for the boldness of her performances in films by Mike Leigh and other independent directors, died on Saturday in London. She was 41 and lived in London. The Associated Press reported that she died of septicemia resulting from pneumonia.
 ABDELA-Catherine. On September 9, 2002. Died suddenly from cardiac arrest at 60. She leaves behind her bereaved husband Angelo, her devastated daughter Daphne and her distraught mother as well as her family and friends worldwide. A service will be held on Thursday, September 12 at 3PM at We
 BEEBE-Jean (nee Lewis). Age 71. Of Ridgefield, CT. New York City native and daughter of the late Dr. Kenneth M. and Evelyn Lamont Lewis. Former resident of Englewood, N.J. Survived by her husband, David C. Beebe, Jr., a daughter, Evelyn B. Handy, two sons, David C. Beebe III and Scott M. Be
 BLAISDELL-Elaine French, 81. Of Beechhurst, Whitestone, Flushing, NY, September 7, 2002. Predeceased by husband Philip E. (Tex) Blaisdell; mother of Barbara F. and Bruce F. Blaisdell; grandmother of Nicholas C. Blaisdell; sister of Barbara F. Crawford. Predeceased by brother, Richard French
 CIACCIO-Emma. On September 10, 2002. Member of the NYU Dental Women's Auxiliary and the Columbus Citizen's Foundation. Beloved wife of the late Salvatore Ciaccio, DDS. Mother of Theo Berman. Sister of Betty Glianna. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20th St) NYC,
 FISH-Charlotte Blackman, 90. On September 3, 2002, after a short illness in Deerfield Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Joseph T. Fish, of Logan, West VA. Mother of Jacqueline Fish, and Frances Fish Tompkins. Mother-inlaw of Judge Harold Tompkins. Grandmother of Laurence Alan Fish To
 GOTTLIEB-Beatrice J., 92. On September 4, 2002. Wife, mother, aunt, friend. She was a loving, kind and wise woman. Services were held in New York.       
 HERTZ-Margaret. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member Margaret Hertz. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, on Friday, September 13, 2002 at 4 PM. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman 
 PAUL-Margaret Delano. On Sept. 6, 2002. Wife of the late A.J. Drexel Paul Jr. Mother of Wendy Paul, Tony Paul and Linda Olney. Also survived by four grandchildren and four great - grandchildren. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in her name to the Alzheimers Associ
 Kim Hunter, whose eclectic 60-year career included an Oscar, two Emmy nominations and a Broadway triumph with her portrayal of Stella in the legendary 1947 debut of ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' died on Wednesday at her New York apartment. She was 79. A founding member of the Actors
 BERKMAN-Ray L. (nee Gutterman). On September 11, 2002. Predeceased by her beloved Leonard. Devoted mother of Paula and George Akst, Eileen and Howard Berkman. Adored grandmother of Jill & Craig Sheflin, Rebecca Akst, Deborah and Emily Berkman. Cherished baby sister of Samuel, the late Charl
 FISH-Charlotte Blackman, 90. On September 3, 2002, after a short illness in Deerfield Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Joseph T. Fish, of Logan, West VA. Mother of Jacqueline Fish, and Frances Fish Tompkins. Mother-inlaw of Judge Harold Tompkins. Grandmother of Laurence Alan Fish To
 HABACHY-Melek M. (nee Dimyan). On September 10, 2002. Beloved wife of Nazeeh Saba Habachy, cherished mother of Tiya Saba Habachy and Dora Gamila Habachy, and loving sister of Amin, Wafik and Magid Dimyan. Born in Egypt, Melek graduated from the American University in Cairo. She came to the 
 LURIA-Helen. On September 10, 2002. She is survived by family members and wonderful close friends. Services Friday 11:15 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MENDEZ-Rose Marie. Architectural designer and educator, died in Los Angeles, Saturday, September 7, 2002 of cancer. She was 32. Rose turned candor into virtue and and rendered life with startling clarity. It was infectious. And beautiful. Born in New Jersey, Rose received undergraduate and 
 SCHIFF-Gabriele. We mourn the recent death of our Director Emeritus. Her service on our Board for more than 30 years, after initially helping the planing and creation of our Nursing Home, will remain an inspiration to us all. The Margaret Tietz Center For Nursing Care sponsored by The New Y
 STRAUSS-Joan. (nee Johanna Goldschmidt) 91, born Darmstadt, died September 9. Her family will miss her deeply. Funeral: Maple Grove Cemetery, 83-15 Kew Gardens Road, Friday September 13, at 10:45 AM.       
 BOGERT-Margaret Milbank. Of New York and Fishers Island died suddenly on September 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late H. Lawrence Bogert and mother of H. Lawrence Bogert III of New York and Jeremiah M. Bogert of Bedford. Cherished grandmother of Millicent, Jeremiah, Hilary and Cyrena and fo
 CAMPBELL-Vanessa. New York cabaret singer, on August 25, 2002. Survived by daughters, Justine CampbellElliott and Sophie Harris as well as loving friends and family. Her laughter and music will live with us always.       
 HABACHY-Melek M. (nee Dimyan). On September 10, 2002. Beloved wife of Nazeeh Saba Habachy, cherished mother of Tiya Saba Habachy and Dora Gamila Habachy, and loving sister of Amin, Wafik and Magid Dimyan. Born in Egypt, Melek graduated from the American University in Cairo. She came to the 
 MARICLE-Marijane. January 13, 1922-July 30, 2002. Singer-actress, beloved friend. Maricle's long, diverse career included Broadway/National Company/Off-Broadway productions of Bye Bye Birdie, Paint Your Wagon, Allegro, Butterflys are Free, Carousel and Hair. She appeared in many commercials
 BOGERT - Margaret. The Trustees of the National Foundaton for Facial Reconstruction deeply mourn the death of Margie Bogert. She served with distinction on our board for better than 15 years and will be greatly missed. She attended board meetings with outstanding regularity including the la
 DUSHNYCK-Mary, on September 13, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Walter Dushnyck. Cherished mother of Mark. She is survived by many nieces and nephews. Visitation Sunday and Monday 3-5 and 7-9PM, Herbst-TrzaskaWaldeck Chapels, 7614 Fourth Ave., Brooklyn (valet parking). A funeral liturgy will
 KAY-Ina. Hadassah The Womens Zionist Organization of American Inc mourns the passing of Ina Kay. Beloved wife of Jack, devoted mother of Shelley Kay and Lauren and Richard Pollin, and loving grandmother of Sander and Kennis Haskins, Alyssa Perper and Julie Zitin. As a Guardian of Tomorrow, 
 McALPIN - Eleanor New block. Passed away at her residence in St. Louis, MO on Wednesday, September 11, 2002. She was also a resident of Brandreth Park, NY. Beloved wife of the late Charles Williston McAlpin II. Dear mother of Charles Newblock McAlpin. Mother-in-law of Anne Stupp McAlpin. Gr
 ANSCHER-Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of Bernard Anscher, beloved father of our dear friend Marlene Herring. Marlene is a committed member of UJA-Federation's Manhattan Women's Campaign and serves on the Women'
 BOGERT-Margaret Milbank. Of New York and Fishers Island died suddenly on September 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late H. Lawrence Bogert and mother of H. Lawrence Bogert III of New York and Jeremiah M. Bogert of Bedford. Cherished grandmother of Millicent, Jeremiah, Hilary and Cyrena and fo
 BURT-Mary Canedy. Died September 12, 2002. Born in Grinnell, IA, on June 28, 1909, she lived in San Francisco most of her life. A pioneer in her field, in 1969 she co-founded Burt Children's Center, a residential treatment center for severely emotionally disturbed children. She is survived 
 DONNELLY - Marion. A member of The New York Times Editorial Department for 17 years, who retired in 1994 for a second career as a charity volunteer, died on Wednesday, September 11th, 2002, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 71, and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was
 FUNSTEN-Marilyn (Hitchcock) Cook. Died August 19, 2002. A Californian, she moved to New York in 1948. She was for many years Director of Public Relations for Lord & Taylor. She left New York to marry Edward S. Funsten Jr. She is survived by her former husband, a daughter, four nieces and ne
 FURMAN-Evelyn. The Montefiore-Einstein Heart Center is sad to announce the untimely death of Mrs. Evelyn Furman, the wife of our friend, Dr. Seymour Furman, longtime Montefiore physician, surgeon and pioneer in cardiac pacemakers. Evelyn was a gifted teacher, counselor, community leader and
 HEMPHILL-Emily Jane, 49. Died September 8, 2002. She appreciated the excellent care at Sloan Kettering and Greenwich Hospitals. A memorial service will be held Friday, September 20, 2002, at the First Congregational Church in Greenwich. Remembrances may be made to the Oncology Nursing Fund,
 IMBLEAU-Cherie M. 69, of East Windsor Township, NJ, on Saturday, September 7, 2002, of cardiac arrhythmia. She leaves two sisters, Yvonne Imbleau, M.D., of Monroe Township, NJ, and Valerie Imbleau of Canaan, CT. Funeral Mass was held on Monday, September 9, 2002. Memorial contributions may 
 ISAACS-Marian Claire. Died on August 13, 2002, after a long illness, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. She served at Memorial for 41 years as an attending physician of the Renal Service of the Department of Medicine. Esteemed as an expert on kidney function, dialysis and electrolyt
 KORN-Muriel. Died September 13, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Korn, M.D. Mother of Leslie and Madeline. Mother-in-law of Buddy Glucksman. Grandmother of Jonathan, Julie, Jane and Tina. She believed life is with people and leaves a loving family and devoted friends.       
 LING-Vivian Y. On September 10, 2002 in Pittsford, N.Y. Formerly of NYC. She is survived by her husband, Dr. William S. M. Ling, four children and eight grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held Saturday, September 21 in Pittsford, N.Y. For information Zornow-Hedges Funeral Home, Pitts
 MEYERHOFF-Inge (nee Zuber). Wife of Erich, mother of Tina & Claude, grandmother of Aviva and Yardena, sister of Ines and Anke, cousin of John Eden, MD, stepdaughter of Christiana, and kind friend to many, died suddenly of cardiac arrest on Sept. 9, 2002. She had many talents, and always kep
 RACE-Virginia S. 81, on September 13, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Bradford J. Race Sr., and cherished mother of Bradford J. Race Jr. and Janis Veldman, mother-in-law of Margaret Race and John Veldman, and grandmother. Visitation Sunday, September 15, 6 to 8:30 PM, Valent
 TATE-Claudia. On July 29, 2002, at the age of 55, after a long battle with lung cancer. Claudia Tate was a professor of English and African-American studies at Princeton University, and highly regarded for her innovative contributions to African-American literary criticism, especially in th
 WERBIN - Rhea. Passed away August 27. At the age of nine, after the violent deaths of her mother and siblings in the pogroms, she escaped Russia with her sister, Gussie. Arriving in the U.S., she lived with friends and also confronted language barriers. Despite these obstacles and an era th
 WYATT - Jacqueline Sted man, 62. Passed away August 7, 2002 in Guadalajara, Mexico from complications associated with pneumonia. A longtime resident of Palm Beach, FL, Dallas, TX and Ajijic, Mexico, Jackie was born in New York, N.Y., September 15, 1939 to the late Florence Leavitt Schick an
 Bernice Chesler, the author of widely read guidebooks about American bed-and-breakfast inns, died on Sept. 4 at her home in Newton, Mass. She was 69. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Lynda Morgenroth. Mrs. Chesler's work won praise around the country. Her four bed-and-br
 GRANT-Edith. The Board of Governors, and we of North Shore Country Club, record with deep sorrow the passing of our former esteemed member, Edith Grant. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Peter J. Baum, President Daniel S. Klonsky, Secretary       
 KELL-Yetta. ''The Great Lady''. September 8 was 16 years this great lady passed away. Her wisdom and kindness is greatly missed by all who knew her       
 Pearlee Toliver, a northeastern Louisiana radio announcer known as the ''jewel of the dial,'' who attracted a cult following because of the idiosyncratic way in which she wrote and read advertisements, died Sept. 9 at her home in Monroe, La. No one seemed to know how old she was, bu
 Lolita Torres, a leading actress and singer from Argentina who became an international symbol of that nation's golden age of moviemaking in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Buenos Aires. She was 72. The cause was a lung infection related to a chronic rheumatoid condition, the Spanish
 FRIEFELD-Sally Ray. Age 89. Longtime New York City resident, originally from Poland and noted for her unique interpretations of ethnic dances, passed away September 13, 2002 in Glendale, CA. The renowned dance teacher directed the International Folk Festival held annually in New York City. 
 SAFRIN-Rosalind. Wonderful mother and grandmother whose generosity and compassion for others will be remembered by family and friends forever. She is survived by her son Louis Safrin, daughter Susan Horwitz, grandchildren Michele, Zachary, Ricky and Alana, daughter-in-law Michele and son-in
 LaWanda Page, the acid-tongued comedienne who, as the cantankerous Aunt Esther, traded barbs with Redd Foxx on the 1970's sitcom ''Sanford and Son,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 81. The cause was complications of diabetes, The Associated Press reported. Ms. Page
 BERMINGHAM-Beth Reny, 74. Of Scarsdale, on September 17, 2002 surrounded by her family. She was the dearly beloved wife of John H. Bermingham for 52 years. Mother of seven children, sons Thomas V. II, John H. Jr., Jerrold G. and Douglas McDonald (deceased) and daughters Maryclaire Fouse, Pa
 BLANCHARD-Anne Hill, 48. Of Manhattan and Erwinna, PA., died on September 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Edward Vermont Blanchard Jr. and loving mother of Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia; she was also the cherished daughter of W.T. Hill of Huntsville, AL and devoted sister of Liz Hill of Ann Arbor
 BRAUNSTEIN-Rita, 83, (nee Pogostin) on September 16, 2002 in Aventura, FL. Formerly of Woodmere, Long Island, NY. Mrs. Braunstein was predeceased by her husband Irving (1996). Loving mother of Harriet Braunstein and Stephen Braunstein. Also survived by a sister Shirley Friedman and two gran
 WERNER-Georgianna. Mrs. Georgianna Werner on June 19, 2002 at her home. She was the wife of the late Ludlow. She is survived by her sister Freida H. Wormley of Washington, D.C., a stepson Ludlow Werner, Jr. of Chicago, IL, and numerous nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held on 
 BERMINGHAM-Beth Reny, 74. Of Scarsdale, on September 17, 2002 surrounded by her family. She was the dearly beloved wife of John H. Bermingham for 52 years. Mother of seven children, sons Thomas V. II, John H. Jr., Jerrold G. and Douglas McDonald (deceased) and daughters Maryclaire Fouse, Pa
 BLANCHARD-Anne Hill, 48. Of Manhattan and Erwinna, PA., died on September 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Edward Vermont Blanchard Jr. and loving mother of Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia; she was also the cherished daughter of W.T. Hill of Huntsville, AL and devoted sister of Liz Hill of Ann Arbor
 BOBROVE-Naomi Wilkes. On September 16th, 2002. Loving wife of the late Louis. Surviving are her brother and sister John D. Wilkes and Ruth Wilkes Davis. Two daughters Elisabeth (Libby). Bauer and Ann Parker, sonin-law Robert Parker. Adoring grandchildren Owen Bauer, Amanda Parker and Jacob 
 DISTILLI-Alice. Alice Marie Distilli, 70, of Sterling, VA died Tuesday, September 17, 2002 at her residence. Mrs Distilli was born January 10, 1932 in New York City, the daughter of Frank and Josephine Circelli Fanelli. Surviving with her husband William James Distilli, are a daughter Kimbe
 GANT-Bettie Alexander, 46. Died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Manhattan last weekend. ''Alex'' Gant was the building editor of ''This Old House'' magazine. Donations in her name may be made to the American Diabetes Association, PO Box 2680, North Canton, OH 44720. Funeral services 
 GOODMAN-Betty. Perfect wife and partner to Arthur. The best mother to Jaye and Peter, Marian and Mark. Adored and doting grandmother to Cristopher, Josh, Nicholas and Jordan. She was the loving center of our family and friends and will be missed more than words can express. Rest in peace, y
 HOLDSTEIN-Sophie G. On September 17 at 100 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Walter M. Holdstein and mother of Jill Edelson and Margot Harley. Her grandsons Geoffrey, David, Andrew and Joshua Edelson and great - grandchildren Charlotte, Annabel, Oliver, Benzi and Mia Edelson will all m
 SIROTA - Barbara. Loving soul mate to Marvin, devoted mother to Leslie and Douglas Hirsch and Hallie Sirota. Cherished sister of Susan and Ken Burg. Adored grandmother of Evan and Andrew Hirsch. Aunt of Emily, Hal, Harold, Suzanne, Larry and Craig. Loyal friend of many. Services 11:30 A.M. 
 WEINBERG - Hazel, M.D. Died September 17, 2002. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and its graduates are deeply saddened by the loss of a beloved and devoted colleague who played an important role in the life of her many students and colleagues. Dr. Weinberg was a member of 
 Quita Brodhead, a painter of colorful figurative and abstract paintings for more than 80 years, died on Sept. 4 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 101 and lived in Wayne, Pa. She had a vibrant style that continued to evolve through her life. Her early work was mostly nudes and still lifes, i
 ARNOLD - Virginia Tons meire, 95. Died on Monday, September 16 at her home in Mamaroneck, NY. She is survived by her two sons James Michael, Jr. of Manhattan and E. Barton of Lenox, MA. Her daughter Nancy Arnold Goldstein of Manhattan and her three granddaughters: Jocelyn, Gillian Goldstein
 GAMMEL - Patricia Barry. On September 13, 2002, from cancer. Patty loved life, her family and friends. She touched everyone with her energy, kindness and generosity. Patty loved to play tennis, dance, laugh, cook, read voraciously, drink a glass of Chardonnay, and most of all, to celebrate 
 GANT-Bettie Alexander, 46. Died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Manhattan last weekend. ''Alex'' Gant was the building editor of ''This Old House'' magazine. Donations in her name may be made to the American Diabetes Association, PO Box 2680, North Canton, OH 44720. Funeral services 
 GOODMAN-Betty. Perfect wife and partner to Arthur. The best mother to Jaye and Peter, Marian and Mark. Adored and doting grandmother to Cristopher, Josh, Nicholas and Jordan. She was the loving center of our family and friends and will be missed more than words can express. Rest in peace, y
 KELVIN-Jean. On September 17, 2002. Adoring wife of the late Zel, cherished mother of Alice, Ann and Harold. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Renee and two grand-daughters Aurea and Jocelyn. She will be remembered as a caring woman with a sense of style-taking pride in both her home and
 SIROTA-Barbara. The Board of Directors of the Dystonia Medical Research Foundation mourn the passing of Barbara Sirota, a dedicated Director and friend of the Foundation. Her caring support and attention touched all who knew her.       
 ARNOLD - Virginia Tons meire, 95. Died on Monday, September 16 at her home in Mamaroneck, NY. She is survived by her two sons James Michael, Jr. of Manhattan and E. Barton of Lenox, MA, her daughter Nancy Arnold Goldstein of Manhattan and her three granddaughters: Jocelyn, Gillian Goldstein
 LERNER-Lila. On September 20th after a brief illness, beloved wife of Max K. Lerner for 59 years, loving mother of Helene Lerner, Beth Seeger and her husband Bill. Adoring grandmother of Jared and Erica Seeger and Heath Robbins. Loving sister of Edith Tunick and her husband Jerry. Cherished
 Elizabeth Coblentz, an Amish homemaker who wrote a syndicated cooking column by hand beneath a kerosene lantern, a kitchen chronicle that touched on everything from the merits of Belgian horses to coping with grief, died on Tuesday in Blue Springs, Mo. She was 66. The cause was an a
 Florence Lessing, a favorite dancer of the influential jazz-dance choreographer Jack Cole and a featured dancer on the Broadway stage and in nightclubs and films, died on Sept. 5 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney failure, sa
 Jackie Raven, a performer and promoter of tap dancing, died on Aug. 19 at her home in Setauket on Long Island. She was 51. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, the trombonist Ray Anderson. Ms. Raven began dancing fairly late in life as a student in Japanese studies
 ARADER-Margaret (nee Byrne). Of Malvern, PA, formerly of Chappaqua, NY, on September 17, 2002. She was loved by all who knew her and will be missed by her five children, two grandchildren and her beloved extended family. A Memorial Mass will be held at 10 AM, on Saturday October 12, at St. 
 BELLET-Hazel S. Age 81, on September 19, 2002, in Belmont, CA. Formerly of Teaneck, NJ, and Delray Beach, FL. A microbiologist, she taught biology in the Teaneck school system for 18 years before retiring to Florida. Loving wife of the late Dr. Melvin Bellet, survived by brother Stanley Sch
 BRUNTHANZ-Ada. On September 21, 2002, at age 81. Beloved wife of the late Walter Brunthanz. Loving sister of William Vassilious of East Northport, Long Island. Dear aunt of Gregory Vassilious of Acworth, GA, and Maritza Wilde of Oxford, CT. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 HALBERT-Jean, 82. Off Broadway producer died on Sunday, August 18, 2002 in Greenwich Village. Born in Rahway, N.J., she grew up in Staten Island & was educated at Wagner College. Halbert worked for many years in the medical profession including being a supervisor at Roosevelt Hospital. In t
 LEV-Adelaide. Peacefully on September 16 at home in San Francisco. Returned to rest in New York City beside her beloved Leon. Much loved mother of Jane (Stefano), sister of Nora (Bob) and Lester (Pearl). Profound thanks to Aster and visiting nurses and Hospice, San Francisco (Paula, Daphne 
 LUFAU-Pierrette. Died September 14, 2002. She leaves Pierrette and Tom Hogan of New York. She will be buried in Paris, France. Memorial Mass at St. Jean Baptiste, Lexington Avenue at 76th Street, Tuesday, September 24 at 4 P.M. Please no flowers, remembrances to St. Jean Baptiste, or the Vi
 MCDONALD-Anne M. On September 18, 2002. Graduate of Bellevue School of Nursing, where she worked her way up from a student and eventually became Director of Nursing. She is survived by her sister Mildred Meholic, three nieces and two nephews, and her long time companion Amphie Malolos. Repo
 RAPFOGEL - Regina. Friends and staff of Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty mourn the passing of Regina Rapfogel, mother of our dear friend and leader, CEO William Rapfogel, and Freda Fried. Beloved wife of the late Hyman Rapfogel; mother-in-law of Judy Rapfogel and Matthew Fried; grandm
 ROGIN-Rita. Died on September 18, 2002, in Del Mar, CA. She was born Rita Farrer on Januray 17, 1925, in New Brunswick, NJ, to the late Lena and Herman Farrer. She will be remembered for her dedicated work for Haddassah, Douglass College and National Organization for Women. She was a patron
 WILMOT-Mollie N. A resident of Palm Beach, FL, died peacefully after a long illness on Wednesday, September 18, 2002. Born in Chicago, IL, she was the daughter of Charles and Gladys Oliver Netcher. She graduated from the Foxcroft School and was married to Eddie Bragno, Albert Bostwick and P
 Marjorie Slaiman, the longtime costume designer for the Arena Stage theater company in Washington, died on Sept. 13 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 77 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from heart surgery, her family said. In her 26-year career with A
 BERMAN-Faye Diamond. Born July 25, 1919, in Syracuse, NY. Devoted daughter of the late Kate (Kabaker) and Samuel C. Diamond. Beloved sister of the late Marian Sattinger, sister of Walter Diamond (Dorothy). Graduate of Syracuse University and the Maxwell School of Journalism; earned MA in hi
 BRUTHANZ-Ada. On September 21, 2002, at age 81. Beloved wife of the late Walter Bruthanz. Loving sister of William Vassilious of East Northport, Long Island. Dear aunt of Gregory Vassilious of Acworth, GA, and Maritza Wilde of Oxford, CT. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 LITTO-Sara Schein. Passed away at home on September 18, 2002. Adored, respected mother and best friend of Marilyn Sue Goodman. Cherished and devoted daughter of the late Louis and Mary Schein. Treasured sister of the late Samuel Bud Schein, Bernard Schein and Selwyn Schein. Caring sister-in
 MARGOLIS - Rose Golding Eisenberg. Born in 1906, in Port Chester, New York, passed away Saturday, September 21, 2002, in her home in Port Chester. She was the beloved wife of the late Julius Eisenberg and the late J. Alex Margolis and the sister of the late Esther Golding Korman and the lat
 Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant. She was 87. Ms. Littlewood's Theater Workshop
 BERMAN-Faye Diamond. Born July 25, 1919, in Syracuse, NY. Devoted daughter of the late Kate (Kabaker) and Samuel C. Diamond. Beloved sister of the late Marian Sattinger, sister of Walter Diamond (Dorothy). Graduate of Syracuse University and the Maxwell School of Journalism; earned MA in hi
 GEROSA-Martha Jane Berry, devoted and faithful wife of Alfred George Gerosa for fifty-three years, beloved mother of Martha Anne Gerosa and Nina Berry Gerosa, loving grandmother of Jason and Diana Fulton and Jesse and Asia McGrath-Gerosa, caring sister of Allen and William Berry, died peace
 GOLDFINGER-Faith Winsor. On September 22, 2002 in her adopted London. Our thoughts are with her husband Peter, daughters Pippa and Toni and grandsons. A best loved friend of many, she lit our lives.       
 GREENE-Lloyd. On September 22, 2002 at age 76. Beloved mother of Sarah Wrightson. Loving sister of Claire List. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, 919 Michigan Ave., Suite 1100, Chicago, IL 60611-1676.    
 HOWARD - Frances Hum phrey. Age 88, of Washington, D.C., died Monday, September 23, 2002. Beloved mother of The Hon. William Ray Howard of Minneapolis, MN. and Anne Louise HowardTristani of San Juan, P.R. Grandmother of Andrew William Howard, Daniel Eaton Howard, Dennis Ray Hubert Tristani,
 LINSKEY-Dorothy Marie. Of Stratford, CT. Daughter of the late Patrick and Mary Alice Lynch Flynn, born February 5, 1902 in Brooklyn, NY. She was the Deputy Director of Administration for the Civil Court for the City of New York. She graduated from St. John's University. She leaves a daughte
 LORENZ-Barbara S., 71. Died Tuesday, September 17, in the hospital, near her summer home in Maine. She was a life long resident in Manhattan. She is survived by her only child, Anne E. Lorenz. Her sister Eleanor S. Graf, & her brother-in-law Karl; also by her two nieces, Angelia, Kathleen, 
 PRATI-Helen, 78. Of Riverdale, NY, on September 17, 2002. Born October 9th, 1923 in Nesquehoning, PA. Registered nurse, trained at Bellevue, NYC. Loving mother, devoted wife, always gracious, kind and beautiful. She will be sadly missed but fondly remembered by her son Armand, family and fr
 REINHART-Stephanie. The Board and staff of The Joyce Theater mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Stephanie Reinhart. We will miss her passion, knowledge and dedication to dancers and the art of dance. We send our deepest sympathies to her husband Charles, daughter Ariane and her f
 RIKER-Anne T. ''Nancy'' (Cox), 91, of Weston, MA, formerly of Sarasota, FL and Tucker's Town, Bermuda, on July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Samuel Riker who died in 1970. She is survived by her daughter Anne T. ''Susie'' Buttrick of Concord, MA and sons, Samuel of Tucker's Town, Bermuda and R
 SCAVULLO-Miriam Duffy. A kind and gentle woman, wife of the late Victor Kiernan Scavullo, on September 15th at home in Rye, New York. Her five children, eleven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren deeply mourn her passing. Memorial donations may be directed to The Osborn, 101 Theall
 SILLS-Nancy Mintz. Of Albany, NY. Beloved wife of Stephen Sills, MD. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Ronnie and Tom Lindberg, Eric and Joanne Sills. Doting and adored grandmother of David, Samantha, Anders, Jonathan and Sarah. Much loved sister of Janie Batkin of Greenwich, CT. Devoted d
 OELSNER - Hope Bryan. Died peacefully September 20 in Manchester, VT, at the age of 84. She was a beloved and wonderful wife, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt who devoted her life to her family. She was the cherished and very loving wife of Edward C. Oelsner Jr. for 50 years, until his 
 RIKER-Anne T. ''Nancy'' (Cox), 91, of Weston, MA, formerly of Sarasota, FL and Tucker's Town, Bermuda, on July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Samuel Riker who died in 1970. She is survived by her daughter Anne T. ''Susie'' Buttrick of Concord, MA and sons, Samuel of Tucker's Town, Bermuda and R
 SIMON - Frances. Beloved wife of the late Nat Simon. Loving mother of Leslie Simon-Plumlee, EsteLee Price, Michael and Jerry Simon. She was a longtime owner of the Penguin Restaurant in NYC. She will be remembered as a woman who lived and died with style, grace, beauty and dignity. Gravesid
 SLATER-Shirley Weisenfeld, 78. On September 24, 2002, in Oklahoma City, after a long illness. She grew up in Brooklyn, where she raised her children and worked as a physician. Devoted wife of Stanley for 51 years. Loving mother of Leonard and Michael, and grandmother of Elana, Benjamin, Wal
 SPRUNG-Mary, 92. In Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late Murray Sprung, devoted mother of Peggy and John, mother-in-law of Richard Neimeth and Riki Sprung, sister of Sam Norkin, grandmother of Deborah, Pamela, Amy, Lisa, Jason and Larry and great-grandmother of 12. A camp director, teacher a
 Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on
 BRIN-Elaine, 84, departed this world on September 24, 2002 in Stamford, CT. She was the devoted wife of the late Leon Brin and sister to Richard Berger. Beloved mother to Leslie Andrews. She will be remembered for her humor and great spirit. In lieu of flowers, please send contribution to U
 KARCHMAR - BOEHM - An na. Born in Warsaw, Poland on July 30, 1906, passed away on September 24. She was the loving wife of Herman Boehm, widow of Stephan Karchmar, devoted mother to Robert Karchmar, and mother-in-law to Yosefa Klein-Karchmar and Sylvia Karchmar. She was the matriarch of her
 PETERSEN-Joan Carol, lifelong NYC resident, architect and teacher. The consummate lady, tall, elegant, witty and worldly with a marvelous sense of joie de vivre, succumbed on September 21, 2002, after a brief and dramatic battle with cancer. She will be greatly missed by her family and legi
 REINHART-Stephanie. The Board of Directors, Dancers and Staff of The Paul Taylor Dance Company mourn the passing of our cherished friend, Stephanie Reinhart, whose life work meant so much to so many. We send our love and condolences to her husband Charles, her mother Florence and her daught
 ZEINS-Sylvia. Sutton Place Synagogue extends condolences to Rosalind Urbont on the loss of her beloved mother. Our sympathies to the bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 ARMSTRONG - Camilla S. Formerly of Chevy Chase, MD, on September 19, 2002. Beloved mother of Stephen of Washington, D.C. and Brian of New York City. Beloved grandmother of Katrina Armstrong Randall, David and Nicholas. She is also survived by three great-grandchildren William, Samantha and 
 BRAVERMAN-Adria T. The officers and members of the Composers, Authors and Artists of America, New York Chapter, mourn the loss of our beloved Director and Treasurer, Adria Braverman. Her contribution to the organization was immeasurable. We will miss her tremendous generosity of spirit, her
 HERSCOWITZ - Rebecca. Died September 8, 2002. Teacher and guidance counselor in the New York City school system. She was devoted to her family and had a strong commitment to Jewish causes. Survived by many nieces and nephews, their children and their grandchildren. She will be missed.      
 MATTISON-Victoria. Passed away on September 25, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late William C. and Mary Mattison; stepdaughter of Ann Mattison; cherished sister of William, Andrew, Laure, Carolyn, Marian, and Amy. She was Director of Corporate Development at Fannie Mae. In lieu of flowers co
 USADI-May Permut, 83. Died Wednesday, September 25, 2002. She was the wife of the late Samuel Usadi for 57 years, mother of Deborah Nagler and Robert Usadi, grandmother of Benjamin Usadi, Daniel Nagler, Douglas Usadi, and Jennifer Nagler and sister of Sylvia Waltzer and Irving Permut. She a
 BASSECHES-Paula Treinis, 95. Passed away after an extended illness. She was a pioneer, being one of the earliest female registered patent agents. Beloved wife of the late Jack Basseches, she is survived by sons Mark and Robert, daughters-in-law Janet and Harriet, grandchildren Julie, Stuart
 HILTON-Wendy, 71. A specialist in Baroque dance, choreographer, writer, and teacher on September 21, 2002, died in New York City after a long illness. Ms. Hilton was a faculty member of the Juilliard School of Dance, and Stanford University. A memorial service will be held on October 18, 20
 JACOBY-Ruth. Adored wife of Walter for 64 and a half years. Loving mother of Julian and Carolyn Jacoby, Donald and Kitty Jacoby. Devoted grandmother of David, Philip, Jonathan, Steven, Scott and Daniel. Great grandmother of Ryan, Lauren and Isabel. Cherished sister of Sylvia Kahn. A very sp
 LEHNER-Blanche. Beloved mother of Lillian Lazarus and son-in-law Burt Lazarus. Cherished by her grandson Bruce Lazarus, and beloved wife of the late Jack Lehner. Survived by many loving nephews and nieces. Graveside services Monday, 10:30 AM, Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ.       
 LERNER-Lila. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Lila Lerner. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres.       
 LOCKWOOD-Joan. On September 27, 2002. Beloved wife of Donald. Loving mother of Steven and Wanda Lockwood, and Lisa and John Winston. Adored grandmother of Rachel, Tracy, Scott and Robbie. Devoted daughter of Mary Rosensweig. Cherished sister of Doris and Jerry Miller, and Jackie and Patty R
 MANNHEIM-Marian (Glucher). On September 26, 2002. Preceded in death by her beloved husband, Joseph. Survived by her devoted children, Philip (Susan) Mannheim, Susan (Zachary) Schwartz. Treasured grandmother of Caryn, Jessica, Amanda and Matthew. Cherished sister of Beatrice Glucher, Ruth Si
 REINHART-Stephanie. Kevin McKenzie, the Trustees, the dancers and the entire staff of American Ballet Theatre mourn the passing of Stephanie Reinhart, a brilliant advocate of dance. Her tireless dedication to the art form lent encouragement to an entire generation of dance ensembles. We sen
 Mollie Wilmot, the socialite with the oversize white sunglasses who rose to celebrity in 1984 when a tanker ran aground at her Palm Beach, Fla., mansion, died on Sept. 17 at her apartment in Manhattan. She was always reluctant to give her age, and ages from 73 to 78 have been report
 BENEDIG - Margaret. On September 19, at age 81. Beloved wife of the late Ernest. She will be always loved by her family and friends.       
 CAHN-Rose Z. Teacher, died September 27, 2002 in Brooklyn, NY after a long illness at age 92. Beloved widow of Bernard Cahn, devoted mother of Meta and Richard Cahn. She will never be forgotten for her good work, and will always be loved. A contribution to the Association for the Help of Re
 DESKIN-Claire. On September 27th, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Mark. Loving mother of Michael H. Steinhardt and precious mother-in-law of Judy. Loving grandmother of David, Daniel and Sara (David) Berman; great-grandmother of Jacob, Joshua and baby girl Berman. Service Monday, 9:30 AM, at
 GREENE-Lloyd. On September 22, 2002 at age 76. Beloved mother of Sarah Wrightson. Loving sister of Claire List. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, 919 Michigan Ave., Suite 1100, Chicago, IL 60611-1676.    
 HART - Geraldine. Passed away peacefully on September 26, at her home after a courageous battle with cancer. She was the dearly beloved wife of the late Arnold Hart. Cherished mother of Richard and Jane. Loving mother-in-law of Nancy and Robert. Adored grandmother of Courtney, Rachael, Just
 KOBYLANSKI-Helen (nee Meltzer). 86, of NYC, on September 20, 2002. Survived by beloved daughter, Felica of NYC; sister Rose, and the late Robert. Born in Newark, moved to Oak Park, MI, in 1952, to marry the late Jack. Returning to NYC in 1985, she enjoyed singing, was a prolific writer and 
 LOCKWOOD-Joan. On September 27, 2002. Beloved wife of Donald. Loving mother of Steven and Wanda Lockwood, and Lisa and John Winston. Adored grandmother of Rachel, Tracy, Scott and Robbie. Devoted daughter of Mary Rosensweig. Cherished sister of Doris and Jerry Miller, and Jackie and Patty R
 MALBIN-Henrietta S. The adored Henrietta Malbin died peacefully on September 26 at the age of 90. She was the beloved wife of the late Irving, devoted sister of Sylvia Schulman and the late Phil Shapiro, wonderful aunt of Susan and Jeffrey Moss, Dennis and Jill Schulman, Eleanor and Kurt Mu
 OELSNER - Hope Bryan. Died peacefully September 20 in Manchester, VT, at the age of 84. She was a beloved and wonderful wife, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt who devoted her life to her family. She was the cherished and very loving wife of Edward C. Oelsner Jr. for 50 years, until his 
 PARKER-Sylvia. Fondly remembering our friend for her generosity and devotion to the Lila Motley Cancer Foundation for so many years. Elaine Fabrikant, Sally Held and Bernice Locker       
 SAPIR-Rena L. Age 81, passed away September 27, 2002, at home in West Palm Beach. Formerly a resident of Yonkers and Putnam Valley, she is survived by her husband of 60 years Isidore, children Robert (Jeri), Glenn (Nancy), Donald (Janet), Marlene Reddy (Paul), Eric (Vivian), 12 grandchildre
 Erna Furman, an expert on grief in children and a child psychoanalyst who helped develop a teamwork therapy involving teachers, parents and therapists, died on Aug. 9 in Cleveland. She was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Hanna Perkins Center for Child Devel
 HART - Geraldine (Sam). There are no words to adequately express the overwhelming sense of loss and grief we feel. Our hearts go out to Richard, Jane, John and the family. We shall always miss and love her. Tom and Geri       
 SCHWARZ-Thelma. Of New York City and Ocean Beach, Fire Island, loving wife and partner of the late Alex, adored mother of Thomas and sister of Laurence (and Marylou) and the late Ted, doting grandmother of Jason and Jessi, surrogate mother of Judith, posture coach to Julie, aunt, great aunt
 SCULLY-Eileen. Of Southampton, NY, on September 28, in her 87th year. Survived by her loving husband Donal and her devoted children Deirdre Pardon of Southampton and NYC, and Dr. Brian Scully of Hackensack, NJ, and by seven grandchildren. Reposing at the J. M. O'Connell Funeral Home, 30 Lit
 STEVENS-Joan. Of Ocean View, NJ, formerly of Rockland County, NY, passed on September 29, 2002, after a long battle with cancer. She is survived by her husband Sheldon, daughters and sonsin-law, Meryl and George Lolas, Bari and Lee Green, grandchildren Hayley, Skylar, Devin and Christos, si
 Representative Patsy T. Mink, a liberal Democrat from Hawaii who was likely to be elected to a 13th term in November, died Saturday at the Straub Clinic and Hospital in Honolulu. She was 74. The cause was viral pneumonia brought on by chickenpox, said Andy Winer, a spokesman for the
