 ALTMAN--Justice Myriam J. The Justices and Attaches of the Appellate Division, Second Judicial Department express their condolences to Judge Herbert Altman and family upon the passing of their beloved colleague and friend. We shall miss her kindness and wise counsel.       
 CARLSON--Kay (Kathleen). All of us are extremely saddened by Kay's passing and extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. She was a distinguished colleague and a dear friend to many of us. During 20 years with Equitable and AXA Financial, mostly as President of AXA Foundation,
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. Died peacefully in her 86th year at Sunswyck in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. on January 25, 2005. Beloved mother of Mazie, Howard & Edward and devoted grandmother of Dune, Yarrow & Christopher. Services will be on February 1 at 10 AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th Str
 DONOVAN--Mary Ann. President and a founding member of The Neuropathy Association, died in New York on January 30. Ms. Donovan, a victim herself of peripheral neuropathy, became a spokesperson for education and research efforts of the disease. With Dr. Norman Latov, Medical Director of the A
 ECKHARDT--Marie G., 75, on January 27, 2005, in Norwalk Hospital; a resident of New Canaan, CT. She was the daughter of the late William L.F. and Catherine Wils Gardiner, and wife of the late William F. Eckhardt, Jr., M.D. She is survived by three children: William F. Eckhardt III, M.D. of 
 GUNSBERG--Florence, age 96, 0f Aventura FL, formerly of Bayside, Queens. The last of her generation. If you look up character and dignity in the dictionary, you'll find Flo's picture. Beloved wife of the late Milton, devoted mother of Michael (Ellen) and Franklin (Trudi). Loving grandmother
 HANDLER--Lillian Nerenberg. Born Newark, N.J., March 3, 1912. Wife of the late Sol Handler, longtime resident of Englewood, N.J. and Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife & mother. Died January 30, 2005 peacefully at home. Survived by her loving daughter and only child, Joy. Her laughter and love wil
 KESSLER--Mollie on January 29, 2005 in Rochester, New York. Formerly of North Shore Towers, Queens, New York. Predeceased by her husband David, owner of Wolf's Delicatessen. Survived by her sons Laurence (Karen) and Dennis, both of Rochester, New York. Burial took place on Monday. For infor
 LEFF--Naomi. Noted interior designer died January 30, 2005 in NY City at Mt Sinai Hospital from a congenital liver disease. Born in Park Chester, the Bronx, daughter of Frank and Johanna Leff, Naomi attended the High School of Music and Art in NYC, earned a BS from Cortland State University
 McCAULEY--Ellen P. (Patti). On January 29. Much loved sister, sister-in-law and aunt. Survived by James (Buddy), Marion, Matthew, Michael, James, Tricia, Missy, Melanie, Mili and a wonderful circle of friends. She will be sorely missed by all. Family will receive friends Tuesday 2 to 5 and 
 MEYERS--Edna Ocko, Ph.D. Daughter of Isaac and Bessie Ocko, sister of Bernard Ocko, beloved wife of Sidney Meyers, died January 26, 2005 at the age of 96. Born October 8, 1908, she had a long and varied career. During her lifetime, she was a poet, a high school English teacher, a dance acco
 SHICK--Hilda, nee Lind, died peacefully on January 29, 2005. Loving wife of the late Simon L. Shick, M.D. Mother of Linda Aaronson, Elizabeth (Joseph) Sorstein and the late William Michael Shick. Grandmother of Eric Aaronson, Diana Clarke, Caroline and Emily Sorstein. Revered aunt, great-au
 SILBERBERG--Ann. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Ann Silberberg. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her husband and to her entire family.       
 STERN--Irene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irene Stern, a devoted friend who together with her beloved late husband, Gustav, and through the continued efforts of her son, Steven, strengthen our mission to serve those in need 
 STERN--Irene. Rest in peace. Mourned by her brother Ralph and her sister-in-law Fay Suskind       
 CARLSON--Kay (Kathleen). All of us are extremely saddened by Kay's passing and extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. She was a distinguished colleague and a dear friend to many of us. During 20 years with Equitable and AXA Financial, mostly as President of AXA Foundation,
 DONOVAN--Mary Ann. President and a founding member of The Neuropathy Association, died in New York on January 30. Ms. Donovan, a victim herself of peripheral neuropathy, became a spokesperson for education and research efforts of the disease. With Dr. Norman Latov, Medical Director of the A
 ECKHARDT--Marie G., 75, on January 27, 2005, in Norwalk Hospital; a resident of New Canaan, CT. She was the daughter of the late William L.F. and Catherine Wils Gardiner, and wife of the late William F. Eckhardt, Jr., M.D. She is survived by three children: William F. Eckhardt III, M.D. of 
 GENTILE--Madeline M. Died on January 31 at age 73 in New York City. Survived by her beloved husband Anthony R. Gentile I, former TV and radio editor of the Herald Tribune, TV Editor of Newsday and the Executive Editor of Tribune Media Services, her loving children, Anthony II, John, Christo
 GRAUER--Jane S. Holzer. Peacefully in her 82nd year in Bettendorf, Iowa. Formerly of Great Neck, New York. Adored wife of Dr. William S. Grauer, beloved mother of Diane Siskin, Susan van Berg, Judy Hersher and Louise Sullivan. Devoted grandmother of Brooke, Jamie, Jill, Jessie, Aryeh, Sofi,
 KEINER--Ruth (nee Gribin). Of Manhattan, at home, on January 31 2005. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving and devoted mother of Richard and Lois. Dear sister, aunt and wonderful friend. She will be loved and missed by all who knew her.       
 LEFF--Naomi. We'll always remember your warmth, talent and friendship which we treasured dearly. Ruth and Bil LEFF--Naomi. Noted interior designer died January 30, 2005 in NY City at Mt Sinai Hospital from a congenital liver disease. Born in Park Chester, the Bronx, daughter of Fran
 SHICK--Hilda, nee Lind, died peacefully on January 29, 2005. Loving wife of the late Simon L. Shick, M.D. Mother of Linda Aaronson, Elizabeth (Joseph) Sorstein and the late William Michael Shick. Grandmother of Eric Aaronson, Diana Clarke, Caroline and Emily Sorstein. Revered aunt, great-au
 STEINKE -- Lillian May (Schroeder). The family mourns the passing of Lillian. Born 1917 Ft Lee, N.J. with a modest upbringing in Teaneck. Lillian was a happy person with a good spirit. Following high school she worked, then married and raised nine children. Later with husband Bernard J. Ste
 Naomi Leff, an interior designer who created elegant spaces for celebrities and retailers like Ralph Lauren, Ferragamo, Gucci, Giorgio Armani and Helena Rubinstein, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was complications of liver disease, her fri
 BERGER--Arthur. The Continuum Health Partners family is saddened to learn of the death of Arthur Berger, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Jeanne Principe. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Jeanne and her family for their loss. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trust
 CARLSON -- Kathleen Ann. Died on January 30, 2005 at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital. She died following a year long, courageous battle with leukemia. She was 54 years old. Ms. Carlson served in New York as President and Chief Executive Officer of the AXA Foundation for the past eightee
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. The Board of the Friends of Clermont, Clermont State Historic Site, sadly marks the passing of Anne Delafield Finch Cox. She was a member of the Livingston family, many of whose members made substantial contributions to the history both of the Colony and later Sta
 GRAUER--Jane S. Holzer. Peacefully in her 82nd year in Bettendorf, Iowa. Formerly of Great Neck, New York. Adored wife of Dr. William S. Grauer, beloved mother of Diane Siskin, Susan van Berg, Judy Hersher and Louise Sullivan. Devoted grandmother of Brooke, Jamie, Jill, Jessie, Aryeh, Sofi,
 HOUSBERG--Caroline, wife to the late Dr. Mortimer Housberg, mother of the late Daniel Housberg, on January 31, 2005. She is survived by her brother David Hirsch of NYC, her sons Steven and Paul Housberg of Chester, NY and Jamestown, RI and grandchildren Abby, Sadie and Nathan. Her memory wi
 KERMAIER -- Esther. The Yeshiva University Family expresses profound sorrow to Dr. Karen Bacon (and Dr. Stephen), our very distinguished Dr. Monique C. Katz Dean of Stern College for Women, on the passing of her beloved mother, Esther, wife of the late Morris Kermaier who was deeply beloved
 KRONENBERG--Mollie. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our Honorary Trustee and extraordinary volunteer. She was a loving and formidable presence in our lives. Condolences to her devoted daughters, Harriet and Linda.       
 LEFF--Naomi. Pratt Institute mourns the death of renowned interior designer, Naomi Leff. She was an esteemed alumna of interior design and architecture, a Pratt trustee, an Alumni Achievement Award recipient, and a Pratt Legends honoree. Her professional achievements were legion and her sta
 REGOSIN--Martha D. (nee Davidson), 96. On January 28, 2005 in Brooklyn, New York. Wife of 53 years of the late Herman A. Regosin. Survived by children Jerry and wife Ina; Jay and wife Yehudit (of Jerusalem). Grandchildren Jonathan, married to Randi Berkowitz; Yaffa, married to Noam Ohring; 
 STOCK--Ruth, (nee Zwiren), age 102, formerly of Brooklyn passed away January 31, 2005 in Cincinnati. Adored wife of the late Morris A. Stock; beloved mother of Judith Shapiro of Cincinnati & Larry Stock of Pacific Grove, CA; motherin-law of Dr. Herbert Shapiro of Cincinnati & Barbara Stock 
 WRIGHT--Claudia. Born June 17, 1934, died January 29, 2005. Beloved wife of John Helmer, mother of Catullus. She wrote, she fought, she loved.       
 Myriam J. Altman, an appeals judge of the New York State Supreme Court since 1994, died on Jan. 29 at New York University Hospital. She was 65 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications of myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disorder, her family said. Just
 BRIEGER--Anny (nee Birnbaum). Peacefully in her 96th year at her home in Manhattan. Adored wife of the late Clarence. Beloved twin sister of the late Edith Oblatt and late brother - in - law Dr. George Oblatt. Born in Antwerp, Belgium. Recording Secretary of her Barnard College class of 192
 CARLSON--Kathleen. Project Reach Youth mourns the passing of Kay Carlson. Kay had provided tremendous leadership and assistance to PRY. During her tenure as President of Equitable, then AXA Financial Foundations she had been a strong advocate of youth programs. Her long-standing commitment 
 COX--Anne Delafield Finch. The Board of the Friends of Clermont, Clermont State Historic Site, sadly marks the passing of Anne Delafield Finch Cox. She was a member of the Livingston family, many of whose members made substantial contributions to the history both of the Colony and later Sta
 HARRIS-MORAN--Maria, of New York and Montauk on February 1, 2005. Beloved wife of Gabriel Moran for nineteen years. Precious daughter of the late Edward and Mary Harris. Loving sister of the late Thomas Harris. Also survived by her dear niece, nephew and friends. Former professor at Fordham
 HEIDT--Paula, devoted aunt and beloved friend, passed away on January 29, 2005. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Thursday, February 10th at 4PM.       
 LIEBOW--Gina. Died on February 3, age 92. She will be missed by her friends and family. Contributions can be sent to QUEST, 99 Hudson St, New York, New York 10013.       
 SOMERFIELD--Elsie J., age 88, died peacefully at home on February 3, 2005 with her beloved husband of 68 years, Ralph Murray Somerfield at her side. A native New Yorker, she was a 1937 graduate of Hunter College, later completing her masters degree in Guidance and Counseling at Queens Colle
 WOODHULL--Helen. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Helen Woodhull. A uniquely talented artist, Helen was precious to all who knew her. We who worked with her will miss her greatly and will never forget her kind and gentle spirit that brightened our live
 FAYER--Selma, February 3, 2005. Beloved wife of Dr. Michael Fayer. Loving mother of Dr. Steven Fayer, Marcia Salomon and Rick Fayer. Cherished grandmother of Rachael, Andy, Jonathan, Laura, Jack & Josh. Devoted sister and aunt. She will be deeply missed by all her family and friends. Servic
 GELMAN -- Anna Cheskis. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved Professor Emerita Anna Cheskis Gelman. Her dedication to the School and to Columbia's students extended beyond the classroo
 HEIDT--Paula, devoted aunt and beloved friend, passed away on January 29, 2005. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., Thursday, February 10th at 4PM.       
 O'CONNOR--Nancy Breck. 70, of Loudonville, NY, beloved wife of the late Thomas D. O'Connor for over 49 years, died Thursday, February 3, 2005, in North Palm Beach, Fl. Born in Springfield, MA, she was the daughter of the late Edward J. Breck and the late Gertrude O. Breck. She attended the 
 SOMERFIELD -- Elsie. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WERTHEIMER--Gerda, on February 1, 2005. Wife of the late Julius, devoted mother of Carol, mother-inlaw of David, beloved sister of the late Werner Schwarz and the late Anni Kann. She had an indomitable spirit. Graveside services Sunday, February 6, 2005. In lieu of flowers contributions to 
 BRAM--Jean. 93, grew up in Chicago and attended the University of Chicago on a Latin scholarship. During the Great Depression she migrated to NYC and finished her PhD at NYU. She taught Latin and Greek at Hunter College. Survived by three daughters.       
 BRIEGER--Anny (nee Birnbaum). Peacefully in her 96th year at her home in Manhattan. Adored wife of the late Clarence. Beloved twin sister of the late Edith Oblatt and late brother - in - law Dr. George Oblatt. Born in Antwerp, Belgium. Recording Secretary of her Barnard College class of 192
 FANTA--Helen Kulka, 97, on January 25, 2005. Caring and devoted wife of the late Eric Fanta, her survivors include her niece, Margaret Frija, step-daughter, Marlene (Fanta) Shyer, and step-grandchildren, Kirby, Christopher and Alison. She died peacefully after a long illness and will be rem
 FAYER--Selma, February 3, 2005. Beloved wife of Dr. Michael Fayer. Loving mother of Dr. Steven Fayer, Marcia Salomon and Rick Fayer. Cherished grandmother of Rachael, Andy, Jonathan, Laura, Jack & Josh. Devoted sister and aunt. She will be deeply missed by all her family and friends. Servic
 FRIEDMAN--Anne M. Died Friday, February 4, of multiple myeloma at age 47. A courageous, wonderful young woman. Warm, loving, caring, and beloved by all who knew her. She is survived by her mother and father, Ruth and Robert Friedman, her brother Martin (Toinette), her sister Joanne Singer (
 LOWE--Minnie Senter. Beloved wife of the late Theodore Lowe and the late Arthur Senter. Cherished and devoted mother of Rabbi Harvey and Anne Senter, Stewart and Donna Senter, Arthur and Sandy Lowe, and Jeffrey and Fonda Lowe. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. Minnie exemplified th
 SAVAGE--Ann T. Passed away in Scotland on January 21, 2005. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a date to be determined. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Brownington Foundation, 767 Third Ave., New York, NY 10017. SAVAGE--Ann T. The lawyers and staff of
 SILVERMAN--Anne, 85. Formerly of Livingston, NJ. Died in her sleep Sunday, January 30, 2005 at a nursing home in Washington, DC. With her late husband Edward she owned and operated ''Silverman's on the Plaza'' in Livingston for 40 years. She was active in the Women's Auxilliary of the Lions
 SOMERFIELD--Elsie J., age 88, died peacefully at home on February 3, 2005 with her beloved husband of 68 years, Ralph Murray Somerfield at her side. A native New Yorker, she was a 1937 graduate of Hunter College, later completing her masters degree in Guidance and Counseling at Queens Colle
 STOCKTON--Helen Bilyeu, 91, of natural causes, in Philadelphia, on January 31, 2005. A confirmed New Yorker since 1957, widowed in 1970, retired from social work in 1979. A lifelong artist and original member of Ceres (the co-op erative women's gallery in Manhattan) where she had 6 solo sho
 WOODHULL--Helen. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Helen Woodhull. A uniquely talented artist, Helen was precious to all who knew her. We who worked with her will miss her greatly and will never forget her kind and gentle spirit that brightened our live
 Helen Woodhull, a prominent New York jewelry designer whose work echoed ancient and antique themes in silver, gold and precious stones, died on Jan. 29 at her home in the West Village in Manhattan. She was 65. The death was announced on her Web site, www.woodhulljewelry.com. Andrea 
 DELANO--Elizabeth Washburn. 89, resident of York, ME, on February 2, 2005. She was the widow of Warren Delano. Born in New York City, she graduated from The Brearley School and Bryn Mawr College, Class of 1937. She is survived by her children, Sara Delano of Winchester, MA, Warren Delano of
 TEICHER--Florence E. Died on February 5, 2005, in NYC, after a long illness. She was an accomplished sculptor having exhibited in the Hamptons and in NYC at the Weintraub Gallery. Florence Teicher was actively involved in philanthropic activities including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty Intern
 TONKENS--Rosalie Robbins. Native New Yorker. Died February 4, 2005. Devoted mother of Jane Heller Gerard of New York, and Nancy Lerner of Providence, RI. Loving grandmother of Andrew Heller, Irving Fain and Jacob Fain. She is survived by her sister Ruth Ozarow and her brother Daniel Robbins
 AGUADO -- Josephine, 90, died on February 6, 2005. Josephine was born in Manati, Puerto Rico and moved to New York City in 1928. She is survived by her son Bill Aguado. Services Wednesday, February 9, 10 AM at Williams Funeral Home on Broadway at 232nd St, Bronx, NY. Burial follows at St. R
 BERKE--Essie H. Beloved wife of the late Nathan H. Berke. Mother of Stanley and Diana, Richard, and grandmother of Andrea, Aaron, Jacob, and Samuel. Passed away peacefully on Sunday, February 6, 2005. She will be missed by all.       
 BILLER--Esther. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 CLARK -- Caroline Melanie. Lost her battle with leukemia on February 5, 2005. Beloved daughter of Angel and Nylda. Adored by sisters Camille, Catherine and Milexis, brother Alberto and family. She was a student at Utica College, an active member of Holy Trinity RC Church. God must have need
 ESTES--Sylvia. On February 6, 2005 of Manhasset, New York. Beloved wife of Arnold. Devoted mother of Roberta Shapiro & husband Stephen. Cherished grandmother of Hayley and Corey. ESTES--Sylvia. Thanks for the memories. Dear friend, neighbor and lady. Susan and her Arnold Blair and t
 JAFFE--Ruth, 94, February 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Sam Jaffe and the late Milton Levy. Loving mother Susan Chapin and the late Phyllis Levy and mother-in-law of Paul Chapin. Adored grandmother of John Chapin, Noelle Green, Robin Chapin, and Ellen Endress. Loving great-grandmother o
 LEVINSON--Rose (Quitman), 95, of Crestwood, NY. Died surrounded by family after a short illness on Monday, February 7, 2005. Married for 70 years to her loving husband, Louis, she will be mourned by him and family, including daughters Elsa Kleinman (Ira), Susan Zolov, Gigi (Keith Brubaker);
 LIEBOW--Gina. The officers and members of QUEST are saddened by Gina's passing on February 3, at age 92. Gina was a primary force in the creation of QUEST as a vital community for learning in retirement. Over the past 10 years we have benefitted from the brilliance of her extraordinary mind
 MILLER--Betty R. On February 6, 2005. Beloved wife of Leonard, devoted mother and mother-in-law of Andrew and Dianne, Meri and Lee and Coco (Nicole) and Ralph, adored grandmother of David, Sam, Jeff, Beth, Stephen, Sarah and Caroline. She was the best at all she undertook and made sure fami
 PEARLSTEIN--Tessie (Toby) 81, died on January 31, 2005. School Secretary for 30 years at P.S. 60Q and in various schools in District 28. She is survived by her husband Seymour, her children Judith and Lawrence, her grandchildren Anna and Max, and her sister Florence Sheinbaum.       
 TEICHER--Florence E. Died on February 5, 2005, in NYC, after a long illness. She was an accomplished sculptor having exhibited in the Hamptons and in NYC at the Weintraub Gallery. Florence Teicher was actively involved in philanthropic activities including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty Intern
 ALBERTS--Zora. Died Tuesday of breast cancer. Her courage, kindness and curiosity continue to inspire those who knew her, especially her grandchildren, Eva, Nicholas, Daniel, and Reesa; her children, Chuck, Nuna, Norman, Rick Kashuk and Kathy Olson; her closest kin, Katie and Milada Alberts
 BUCKLEY--Sonja M., MD was born in Zurich, Switzerland. She married an American citizen, John J. Buckley in 1941 while both were in medical school. Both graduated with medical degrees in 1944. Dr. John J. Buckley left for the Johns Hopkins University in 1945, and Dr. Buckley joined him in 19
 COX--LaWanda Fenlason, who passed away February 2, 2005, in her home in New York City at the age of 95, was one of the most distinguished, respected, and influential historians of her generation. Her books and articles on Abraham Lincoln, emancipation, and Reconstruction had a profound impa
 DICHTER--Estelle. Beloved wife of Norman. Adored mother of Stephen (Joan), Fredric (Barbara) and Joel. Devoted grandmother of Jessica (Jason), Daniel (Amy), Eric (Chuck) and Ronald (Diana). Cherished great grandmother of Jennifer, Noah and Andie. Dearest sister of the late Irving Fishman. S
 ESTES--Sylvia. Thanks for the memories. Dear friend, neighbor and lady. Susan and her Arnold Blair and the Family       
 LINDSAY--Sally, 86, of Manhattan. On February 7, 2005. Survived by nieces Ann Fenichel (Frank Murphy), Ann Lindsay and Maud Lindsay and by nephews Eric Egas (Carolyn) and Peter Lindsay; sister-in-law Alice Lindsay. Predeceased by siblings Joan Fenichel and David Lindsay. Graduate of Swarthm
 LOWE--Minnie Senter. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Minnie Senter Lowe, whose lifelong dedication to Jewish causes included her presidency of the Pride of Judea for more than 20 years. Minnie's legacy is carried on by her belov
 PEARLSTEIN--Tessie (Toby) 81, died on January 31, 2005. School Secretary for 30 years at P.S. 60Q and in various schools in District 28. She is survived by her husband Seymour, her children Judith and Lawrence, her grandchildren Anna and Max, and her sister Florence Sheinbaum.       
 ROSENFELD--Elizabeth. On February 7, 2005, passed away peacefully in her home at the age of 89. She is survived by two of her dear sisters, Connie Schwartz and Beatrice Morgenstern, beloved wife of the late Dr. Louis J. Rosenfeld, dear mother of Hansi Fruchtman, and William J. Rosenfeld. Gr
 TEICHER--Florence. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Florence Teicher, a friend and longtime generous supporter of the League. We extend our condolences to her husband, Milton and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director       
 ALBERTS--Zora. Died Tuesday of breast cancer. Her courage, kindness and curiosity continue to inspire those who knew her, especially her grandchildren, Eva, Nicholas, Daniel, and Reesa; her children, Chuck, Nuna, Norman, Rick Kashuk and Kathy Olson; her closest kin, Katie and Milada Alberts
 COX -- LaWanda Fenlason. We mourn the loss of an eminent and generous member of our doctoral faculty in history, a dedicated teacher and a pioneer in the area of Lincoln studies and Reconstruction policy, and we extend condolences to her family. Frances Degen Horowitz President CUNY Graduat
 DICHTER--Estelle. Beloved wife of Norman. Adored mother of Stephen (Joan), Fredric (Barbara) and Joel. Devoted grandmother of Jessica (Jason), Daniel (Amy), Erica (Chuck) and Ronald (Diana). Cherished great grandmother of Jennifer, Noah, Andie and Matthew. Dearest sister of the late Irving 
 HUDSON--Joan Reed, 77, daughter of Lansing P. and Ruth Reed of Cold Spring Harbor, LI, passed away in her sleep in Sanibel, FL on January 25. She is survived by her loving husband Reg, her three children, Kathy, Bill and Charles, her six grandchildren, and her sisters, Julia Palmer and Mary
 JAMPEL -- Sally. Beloved mother of Robert and Ann, Peter and Barbara, devoted grandmother of Jonathan and Evan, sister of Louis Friedman. She was a woman of courage, strength, love and decency. Services were held Tuesday February 9, 2005.       
 KARL--Janet M., (nee Janet Maybelle Klein), born May 14, 1909, died peacefully February 6, 2005. She is survived by children, A. Robert Karl and Melissa Karl-Lam, eight grandchildren and 14 great grandchildren. A short service will be held in the chapel of Ferncliff Cemetery on February 10t
 WIESENFELD--Bluma. 91, a dress maker, formerly of Brooklyn died February 8, 2005 in Rhinebeck, New York. Mother of Helene Crohn and her husband Frank; grandmother of David. Burial in Beth Moses, West Babylon on Thursday. Memorials to Alzheimers Association. www.simpsongaus.com       
 Mary Kim Joh, a composer and medical researcher, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan, said her son, Insoo Joh. She was 101. Ms. Joh is best known for ''School Bells,'' a 1945 anthem that must be learned by all students going into grammar school today in South Korea. She was a
 Nathalie Krassovska, a Russian-born ballerina who toured the United States for many years with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and was known for her lyricism, died on Tuesday in Dallas. She was 86. The cause was complications of surgery, said Natalie Skelton of the Dallas Dance Coun
 BEACH--Lilly Elizabeth Parks. Died peacefully on February 9, 2005 at age 87. We will miss her terribly. Georgia, Drummond & Parks       
 COHEN--Shirlie Newman. February 10, 2005. Beloved mother of Andy Granowitz, Amy G. Treitel and Leslie G. Brodsky. Loving sister of Sascha Sorin and Eleanore Fischbach. Cherished grandmother of Keith Rosenbloom, Cynthia Newman Mosenson, Anya B. Smith, Nicholas Brodsky and Dean Granowitz and 
 FINCH -- Pauline Hoefer Swayze. Polly in her 87th year, born Freeport, Illinois, October 31, 1917. Beloved wife of Edward Ridley Finch, Jr., beloved widow of Francis Joseph Swayze, beloved mother of Carolyn and grandmother of Julian Swayze. Also survived by her stepchildren, Edward R. Finch
 GERMANSKY--Violet. National Council of Jewish Women Peninsula Section mourns the loss of Violet Germansky, Past President. Our condolences to her family. Robin Ivler, President NCJW Peninsula Section       
 PANNY--Medea (Strasser), age 82 years, on February 9, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Only daughter of Anna and John Strasser. Beloved wife of the late Frank Panny. Loving mother of Susan Panny and Linda Goldberg, beloved grandmother of Laura Lattman, Stephen Goldberg and Kyle Goldber
 PEARCE--Agnes Musser, 100, on January 18, 2005, in Kennett Square, PA. Ms. Pearce worked for many years at the China Medical Board in NYC. A memorial service will be held by her family in her beloved Dorset, VT.       
 SINGER--Shirley Silberman of Brighton, MA, formerly of Woodmere and Lawrence, NY. Died peacefully following a brief illness on February 9, 2005 at age 86. Loving and devoted wife of the late Arthur A. Singer. Survived by her cherished children Richard Singer, Betsy Lewenberg Singer, and Ala
 BIALOR--Mildred, 87, beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother. She leaves behind daughter Maxine, son Paul, grandchildren Nicole, Todd, Yvette, Jonathan and great grandchildren Michael and Anthony. Services at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich St, Hempstead, NY on Sunday, February 13, at 10 A
 COHEN--Shirlie Newman. February 10, 2005. Beloved mother of Andy Granowitz, Amy G. Treitel and Leslie G. Brodsky. Loving sister of Sascha Sorin and Eleanore Fischbach. Cherished grandmother of Keith Rosenbloom, Cynthia Newman Mosenson, Anya B. Smith, Nicholas Brodsky and Dean Granowitz and 
 PERLMAN--(Donchey) Jean. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with deep sorrow the death of Jean Perlman (Donchey), beloved mother of our dear friend Joel Perlman. For over three years, Jean graced the Hebrew Home as a resident. She 
 ROBBINS--Mary. The entire Northern Westchester Hospital family mourns the passing of Mary Robbins, a dynamic and steadfast leader, volunteer and friend who served our hospital with her distinctive blend of caring, wit and grace for over 59 years. She was an important part of the fabric of o
 WEINRIB--Estelle L., 79. On February 11, 2005 after a long struggle with Parkinson's disease. Beloved widow of Stephen; loving mother of Amy and Ken; doting grandmother of Stephanie, Ben, Craig, Doug and Miles. Known as Estelle Loring in her theatrical career, she performed as a singer and 
 Connie Scovill Small, known in maritime circles as the First Lady of Light for the decades she spent helping illuminate the night as the wife of a lighthouse keeper on the rugged New England coast, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 103. Her death was anno
 BIALOR--Mildred, 87, beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother. She leaves behind daughter Maxine, son Paul, grandchildren Nicole, Todd, Yvette, Jonathan and great grandchildren Michael and Anthony. Services at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich St, Hempstead, NY on Sunday, February 13, at 10 A
 CIRKER--Eleanor R. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center family is deeply saddened by the passing of cherished supporter and dear friend, Eleanor R. Cirker, wife of Stanley S. Cirker, Senior Vice Chairman, Board of Directors and benefactor. Her gracious presence will be missed by all.       
 COHEN--Shirlie Newman. February 10, 2005. Beloved mother of Andy Granowitz, Amy G. Treitel and Leslie G. Brodsky. Loving sister of Sascha Sorin and Eleanore Fischbach. Cherished grandmother of Keith Rosenbloom, Cynthia Newman Mosenson, Anya B. Smith, Nicholas Brodsky and Dean Granowitz and 
 DAVIS--Clare Gartrell. A filmmaker and longtime President of the New York Film/ Video Council, passed away on February 2, 2005 at NYPresbyterian Hospital. Born in Ashland, KY she was the youngest child of Ethelbert and Helen Gartrell. She is survived by her beloved brother, the Rev. Edward 
 FINCH -- Pauline Hoefer Swayze. Polly in her 87th year, born Freeport, Illinois, October 31, 1917. Beloved wife of Edward Ridley Finch, Jr., beloved widow of Francis Joseph Swayze, beloved mother of Carolyn and grandmother of Julian Swayze. Also survived by her stepchildren, Edward R. Finch
 HADDAD--Yvonne (Yedid), on February 5, 2005. Beloved wife for 62 years of Jack Haddad. Loving mother of Desi, Edmond (Susan), Emile, Joseph (JoAnn) and the late Rachel. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, David, Michelle, Gabrielle, Justin and Jessica. Her beauty, her strength, her love and 
 HUDSON--Joan Reed, 77, daughter of Lansing P. and Ruth Reed of Cold Spring Harbor, LI, passed away in her sleep in Sanibel, FL on January 25. She is survived by her loving husband Reg, her three children, Kathy, Bill and Charles, her six grandchildren, and her sisters, Julia Palmer and Mary
 KRAKER--Dr. Barbara, Ph.D. On January 30, 2005. Born in the Bronx in 1939, she received her B.A. in Psychology at City College, her M.A. at Columbia University and her Ph.D. at New York University. Moved to Port Washington with her husband David Kraker, where, through word of mouth, she bui
 LERNER--Ida. February 10, 2005. Beloved mother of Sheryl Rubinstein and Laury Lerner, mother-in-law of Bill Rubinstein, grandmother of Mark, Andrew and Evan and great grandmother of Emily, Nicholas and Logan. Always upbeat, positive and active, with the ability to make friends on sight. She
 LOEB--Charlotte Griesman. Beloved wife of the late Lee Loeb, died peacefully on February 11. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her.       
 LUTZKY -- Leah (Rabino vich), D.C. (chiropractor). On February 12, 2005. Wife of the late Albert Lutzky. Mother of Harriet Lutzky, Susan Schmerler and Daniel Lutzky. Grandmother of Deborah and Todd Schmerler, Raymond and Andrew Lutzky. Great-grandmother of Samuel, Lucas and Nicholas Eade, A
 McGINNISS--Barbara Mace, died January 29 after an extended illness. A darling woman of many talents in fashion marketing, travel writing, French cuisine and amateur theater. Everyone she met became her extended family, her hand and radiant smile freely given. Proud alumna of Mt. Holyoke, '4
 MILLS--Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bernard Mills, beloved husband of Gertrude Mills, a cherished leader whose enthusiastic involvement in our general and Women's Campaign enriches the Jewish community in New York an
 MYERS--Betty Loeb Stroock. 84, died peacefully on February 11, 2005, at home in Mt. Kisco, NY, after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. Loving and devoted widow of 49 years to Richard P. Myers. Cherished sister of Mark Edwin Stroock II. Faithful companion to Patrick Brown and be
 NELSON -- Marguerite. Fe bruary 12, 2005, beloved wife of Otto, passed away peacefully after 99 years of a remarkable life, 68 years with her devoted husband. Admired aunt and great-aunt of Ruth, Peter and Linda Norden and family. Everybody who knew her, loved her. We all will miss her.    
 PANNY--Medea (Strasser), age 82 years, on February 9, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Only daughter of Anna and John Strasser. Beloved wife of the late Frank Panny. Loving mother of Susan Panny and Linda Goldberg, beloved grandmother of Laura Lattman, Stephen Goldberg and Kyle Goldber
 PETERSON--Lucy. Born 1934, died on February 9, 2005. Survived by loving brother George and sister Minnie George and many nieces and nephews and loving friends. We will miss her terribly.       
 PISCHL--Tennessee Wild, 88, of Teaneck, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on February 5, 2005. She is survived by her husband of 58 years, Al; daughter Sally; son-in-law Craig Pogosky and granddaughter Alexandra. Tess, your fierce devotion, humor, and unique spirit will be missed and never forg
 ROBBINS--Mary B. Died peacefully in her sleep February 8, 2005. Born in 1913 in Appleton, WS, her father was E.H. Brooks, MD. Nee Mary Josephine Brooks, she married Thomas C. Schwartzburg in 1935. He died in 1953. She married James M. Robbins in 1956 and they shared life for 42 years until 
 VALLEJO--Lucia Ilia. Age 77, of Woodmere, New York. Passed away February 9, 2005. She is survived by her husband, son, four sisters and brother, their families, and four grandchildren. In the hearts of those who knew and loved her, she will never be forgotten and her memory will endure like
 WHITE -- Lillian Adelaide Windsor, passed away January 14, 2005 in Seattle, WA. Born in Brooklyn NY, October 7, 1906, she married Lindsay Hardy White in 1932. A graduate of Erasmus Hall HS and Teachers College-Columbia Univ., Lillian retired from the NYC school system in 1965. She lived and
 ZELENKO--Edith. Of Westhampton Beach, NY, died suddenly on Friday, February 11, 2005, in Palm Beach, FL. She was the beloved wife of Norman Zelenko; beloved mother of Rainer Gebbe; beloved grandmother of Andreas, Sandra, Nicolas and Johanna. She was a valiant woman and left her family and f
 Phyllis W. Meadow, a psychoanalyst who worked to liberalize training and licensing in her field, died on Jan. 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Brookline, Mass., New York City and Dummerston, Vt. The cause was gallbladder cancer, said her daughter, Dr. 
 Beverly Dennis, an actress who played on Broadway, in films and television, most notably on CBS as Red Buttons's wife on ''The Red Buttons Show'' until she was blacklisted in the 1950's, died on Jan. 20 at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79. The cause was multiple myeloma,
 LOEB--Charlotte Griesman. Beloved wife of the late Lee Loeb, died peacefully on February 11. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her.       
 MOROSINI--Helen Simpson. 71, of Kingsbury Road, Walpole, NH, died Thursday, February 10, 2005, at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH. She was born September 9, 1933, in Boston, MA, the daughter of William and Mary (Donnelly) Simpson. Mrs. Morosini attended schools in Boston
 MYERS--Betty Loeb Stroock. 84, died peacefully on February 11, 2005, at home in Mt. Kisco, NY, after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. Loving and devoted widow of 49 years to Richard P. Myers. Cherished sister of Mark Edwin Stroock II. Faithful companion to Patrick Brown and be
 SCHWARTZ--Harriet Marjorie Rivlin. Beloved mother of Eileen J. Zarin, Robin Sue (William J.) Landsburg, and Samuel Schwartz. Cherished grandmother of David, Jennifer and Jonathan Zarin, Michael (Emily), Zachary, Joshua and Benjamin Landsburg, and Daniel Schwartz. Loving sister of Evelyn Rob
 WHITE -- Lillian Adelaide Windsor, passed away January 14, 2005 in Seattle, WA. Born in Brooklyn NY, October 7, 1906, she married Lindsay Hardy White in 1932. A graduate of Erasmus Hall HS and Teachers College-Columbia Univ., Lillian retired from the NYC school system in 1965. She lived and
 Dr. Sonja Buckley, a Yale virologist and investigator who helped in 1970 to identify the Lassa virus, a potentially deadly disease that originated in Africa, died on Feb. 2 in Baltimore. She was 86. Dr. Buckley died in a nursing home after a series of strokes, said a close friend, J
 Eleanor Gould Packard, whose questions, comments and admonitions on the proofs of thousands of articles for The New Yorker for 54 years defined for many the care (some writers said obsessiveness) taken in editing the magazine, died Sunday in Manhattan. She was 87. Her death was anno
 FORD--Natasha Boissevain, died quietly Sunday morning in Greenwich Hospital after a very short illness. She was 72. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dick Ford, her husband of 24 years. Mrs. Ford was born June 14, 1932 in Nice, France of the late Mrs. J. Russell Maguire of Gr
 GLASSER--Jessie nee Miller. Of Upper Montclair, New Jersey, formerly of New York City, New York & East Meadow, NY. Beloved wife of Arnold Glasser. Devoted mother of Amy Dell (James) of Caldwell, NJ and Fran Chase (Jeffrey) of West Caldwell, NJ. Loving grandmother of Lowell, David, Jeremy an
 KREGER--Mary B. Age 73, of West Palm Beach, FL, and Brevard, NC, died February 6, 2005. She is survived by her husband Charles Stoddard Kreger and her first husband John D. Lynch, two daughters Elizabeth W. Lynch and Mary B. Lynch, two nieces Nancy Brown Smith and Meredith Brown Griswold, a
 McBRIDE--Margaret Mary (nee Sweeney), age 92, of Wyckoff, NJ, formerly of Franklin Lakes, NJ died Sunday, February 13, 2005. Margaret, daughter of the late, Joseph D. and Marie F. (nee Simon) Sweeney was born in Paterson, NJ, on October 30, 1912. Margaret is survived by her son and his wife
 McGINNISS--Barbara. In loving memory. She was loved by all who knew her. Chuck Prentiss       
 MOROSINI--Helen Simpson, 71, of Walpole, NH, died February 10, 2005 from complications following surgery for ovarian cancer. Born September 9, 1933 in Boston, MA, the daughter of Mary (Donnelly) and William Simpson, Helen was a graduate of Boston University. Devoted wife and best pal to Cha
 PACKARD--Eleanor Gould, the New Yorker magazine's Miss Gould, 87, died on Sunday, February 13, 2005, at the Village Nursing Home, in Manhattan. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her memory made be made to the New York Public Library or the Central Park Conservancy.       
 FITZGERALD--Celia Rose T. February 11, 2005. Our beautiful, wonderful Celia Rose is in Heaven starring in your first production to a standing room audience. CeCe passed away on February 11, 2005 at the age of seven leaving her family and friends with a lifetime of happy memories. She starre
 KEILIN--Rose Pone, 99, of Houston, TX, died peacefully February 14, 2005. Daughter of Mones and Libby Pone; sister of Sidney Pone and the late Lester and Paul Pone; wife of the late Charles Keilin; mother of Eugene (Joanne), Louis Richard and Sara (Mark); grandmother of Rachael Keilin (Ron)
 LEVY--Margaret P. Died unexpectedly on February 12, 2005 at age 73. Devoted wife of the late Harvey M. Levy. Beloved mother of Elizabeth Levy Merrick. She will also be lovingly remembered by Ann, Jane, Brian, Mary Jeanne, David and Patricia. Funeral services are private.       
 NEWMAN--Martha (Silberman). Died peacefully at home in West Hartford, Conn. on February 8, 2005. Survived by her devoted husband of 51 years, Judge Jon O. Newman, three children and two grandchildren.       
 PACKARD--Eleanor Gould, the New Yorker magazine's Miss Gould, 87, died on Sunday, February 13, 2005, at the Village Nursing Home, in Manhattan. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her memory made be made to the New York Public Library or the Central Park Conservancy.       
 STREET--Ann. The Board of Directors of the James Lenox House Association mourns the death of longtime Board member, Ann Street, on February 7. She served devotedly on many committees including Executive, Admission, Library and Stewardship Committees. We will miss her spirit, elegance, gener
 TAYLOR--Jean Kenrick, 63, on February 14, 2005 after a long and courageous struggle with breast cancer. An inspiration to her Radcliffe '62 classmates who will treasure the profound lessons we learned from her about responsibility and friendship and love.       
 FITZGERALD--Celia Rose T. February 11, 2005. Our beautiful, wonderful Celia Rose is in Heaven starring in your first production to a standing room audience. CeCe passed away on February 11, 2005 at the age of seven leaving her family and friends with a lifetime of happy memories. She starre
 PACKARD--Eleanor Gould, the New Yorker magazine's Miss Gould, 87, died on Sunday, February 13, 2005, at the Village Nursing Home, in Manhattan. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her memory made be made to the New York Public Library or the Central Park Conservancy.       
 PALEN--Harriette Adams, 86, of Meadowood at Worcester, formerly of Verona, NJ, died February 15, 2005. She was the widow of Frederick P. Palen who preceded her in death on March 25, 2003. The couple had been married 63 years. Born April 3, 1918 in NYC, she was the daughter of the late Phine
 POLLACK--Muriel. On February 16, 2005. Devoted mother of Warren Hamerman, Fran Baker and Eric Hamerman. Cherished grandmother of Kelly, Edwin, Alex, Martha, Samantha and Robbie. Her love of life and sweet smile will always be missed.       
 SCALA--Rose E., age 97, died Wednesday, February 16, 2005 at the Osborn Nursing Home in Rye, NY. Ms. Scala served as Principal of the Rose E. Scala School in the Bronx, NY from 1952 through 1972, previously known as PS 71. She was also a past President of the Catholic Teachers Association o
 SCHNEIDERMAN--Linda L. Died February 16, 2005. Loving wife, parent and friend. Accomplished artist, teacher and Master Tai Chai instructor. Loved by everyone she met. An inspiration to all. Such a special human being. Will be supremely missed. Funeral 1 P.M. Thursday today, Temple Beth Shal
 SELUB -- Florence Barkan. Age 86, died Sunday, February 13th, 2005 in St. James, NY. Devoted sister of Eleanor Siegal and Irma Spivack. Cherished mother of Dr. Laura Selub-von Schmidt and Dr. Steven Selub, beloved grandmother of Justin and Joseph von Schmidt, and Rachel, Sam, Jonathan and N
 SIMON--Ria D. Born October 17, 1929 in NYC, died February 14, 2005, at home, Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife for 22 years of Lenard de Lane, dear sister, sister-in-law, aunt. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School, she specialized in matrimonial law, first as a partner in the f
 SLIFMAN -- Doris (Wein traub), February 15, died peacefully from complications of lung cancer. Beloved wife of the late Ted. Adored mother of Audrey Weiner and Jeff Solomon, Sheree and Joel Green. Devoted and loving grandmother of Todd and Walter Green. Michael, Jenny and Lucy Solomon knew 
 TRAMONTANO -- Lawrence Anthony. November 4, 1955February 14, 2005. Beloved brother to sister Lenora (Joe), Theresa (Joe), sisterin-law Diane (Rick). Adored uncle. Irreplaceable husband and best friend to Elizabeth. ''I must go down to the sea again, to the lonely sea and the sky. And all I 
 WEILER--Rhoda Goldstone. Age 97 of Palm Beach, FL died peacefully on Wednesday, February 16, 2005. She was married to Sydney Goldstone, an architect and avid golfer, for 36 years until his death in 1970. She later married Theodore Weiler who also predeceased her. She was a graduate of Adelp
 YUSSUKOVICH--Denise. Age 100, widow of Dimitri M. Yassukovich died February 9,2005 in Hobe Sound, FL. She is survived by a son, Stanislas M. Yassukovich, a daughter, Ariane Wellin, seven grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. Memorial service at 11:00 AM, March 12, St. Dominick, Oyste
 COLE--Marcia N. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Marcia N. Cole, and extends sincere sympathy to her sons Jeffrey and Stephan, and other family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 DODGE--Christine H., of Guilford, CT and Cuttyhunk Island, MA, 80, died on February 6, 2005. Devoted daughter of the late Christine C. and Horace F. Henriques of Greenwich, CT. Loving sister of the late Horace F. Henriques, Jr. of Orr, MN and Greenwich, CT. Beloved wife of Douglas S. Dodge.
 GARAY--Gladys, 74, February 16, 2005. Devoted wife, daughter, mother and grandmother, and dear friend, she lit up the lives of all who knew her. Her memory will be cherished forever and she will be missed dearly.       
 GOODMAN -- Rebecca G. With great love and respect, Becky's family announces that she has passed on. She is predeceased by her beloved husband, Phil Goodman. She was a devoted church member and shared her inspiration by serving in many different ways. She was also a life-long history scholar
 HAMMELBURGER--Ann, 87, of Boca Raton, Florida and Roslyn, New York, died at home on February 16 surrounded by her family. She was the beloved wife of Lou for 58 wonderful years, cherished mother of Marcia Cohen (Leonard) and Florie Wachtenheim (Robert). ''Maw Maw'' was adored by all her gra
 KRAUS--Martha. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Martha Kraus. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood President       
 KUNEN -- Nathalie. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and Founder. An elegant woman who along with her late husband Milton helped support the congregation over many years. We extend heartfelt condolences to her beloved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, P
 McGOVERN--Maggie. Died on February 15, 2005. Profoundly appreciative of the beauty of life, Maggie, a painter, leaves behind not only her loving husband David, daughters Alexandra and Justine, son-in-law Paul and grandchildren Ivy, Nate, George and Daniel, but also many friends and fans. A 
 MERMELSTEIN--Edith, on February 15, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Devoted mother of Pamela Uncyk (Eli), and the late Stanford. Dear grandmother of Jill (Evan) Gross. Loving sister of Helen Samberg. Also survived by her loving nieces and nephews. Private graveside services were held in
 SIMON--Ria D. Born October 17, 1929 in NYC, died February 14, 2005, at home, Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife for 22 years of Lenard de Lane, dear sister, sister-in-law, aunt. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School, she specialized in matrimonial law, first as a partner in the f
 SLIFMAN--Doris. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System deeply mourn the passing of Doris Slifman, adored mother of our president and CEO, Dr. Audrey Weiner, and her sister Sheree Green. Family was the most important part of their mother's
 WEILER--Rhoda Goldstone. Age 97 of Palm Beach, FL died peacefully on Wednesday, February 16, 2005. She was married to Sydney Goldstone, an architect and avid golfer, for 36 years until his death in 1970. She later married Theodore Weiler who also predeceased her. She was a graduate of Adelp
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005, after her heroic battle against catastrophic injuries suffered in a tragic accident. Adored and adoring wife of Julian; unconditionally loving mother of Teya, David, Rachel and Michael; proud grandmother of Nathan; caring sister of Robert and Alan Mulle
 GILMAN--Frances M., 84, of Clinton, CT. died February 11th at the Hunterdon Care Center in Flemington, NJ. She was born in Cleveland, OH, the daughter of Frances and Christopher Magee IV, and lived for many years in White Plains, NY. She is survived by four children, Robert of South Orange,
 MOED--Marjorie McWilliams November 20, 1916-February 16, 2005. Marjorie McWilliams Moed died quietly at her home in New York, the city of her birth. She was the daughter of the late James and Mildred McWilliams. Her father was the contractor and builder of the Barracks buildings on Governor
 PACKARD--Eleanor Gould, the New Yorker magazine's Miss Gould, 87, died on Sunday, February 13, 2005, at the Village Nursing Home, in Manhattan. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her memory made be made to the New York Public Library or the Central Park Conservancy.       
 PERLMAN--Mildred. Age 93, on February 16, 2005. Director of Classification For New York City Civil Service Commission. She is survived by her sister, Bernice Baron, nieces, Lauren Eramo, Barbara Baron, Robin Flake, Sharon Frankel and Ronnie Goyette and grand and greatnephews and nieces. Gra
 WEILER--Rhoda. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, Rhoda Weiler, wife of our late members Sydney Goldstone and Theodore Weiler and extend our heartfelt condolences to her children Abby Popper, Erda G
 Yolanda Garcia, a South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, died on Thursday. She was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez. She was stricken at the o
 BRODSKY--Sarah (Hart). A longtime resident of Bronxville, N.Y., died February 5, 2005 at Lawrence Hospital. She was 68. Mrs. Brodsky was a trained concert pianist who graduated from the Yale School of Music and had studied piano and flute in Vienna. She was born in Philadelphia and grew up 
 ELLIS -- Catherine (Kate) Jones Wheeler Born 14 June 1907 in Buffalo, NY; died 3 February 2005 in Sonoma, CA. A 28-year resident of Manhattan as the wife of the late William L. Wheeler, Jr, MD, she found new love and joy with retired ad man James H.S. Ellis of New York, Reno, NV and Hot Spr
 FOX--Lynn, 61, passed away Tuesday after a long battle with cancer. Daughter of the late Dr. Morris and Esther Waxgiser, she is survived by husband Dr. Roger Fox, son Jeffrey, daughter and son-inlaw Lauren and Mark Poisson and their children. She is also survived by her sister Marilyn Segal
 GARCIA -- Yolanda. We mourn the passing of our friend and ally, Yolanda Garcia, founder and executive director of the We Stay/Nos Quedamos Committee. Yolanda was a visionary community planner - developer, and a pioneer in New York City's environmental justice movement. She led the internati
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005, after her heroic battle against catastrophic injuries suffered in a tragic accident. Adored and adoring wife of Julian; unconditionally loving mother of Teya, David, Rachel and Michael; proud grandmother of Nathan; caring sister of Robert and Alan Mulle
 HAMMELBURGER--Ann, 87, of Boca Raton, Florida and Roslyn, New York, died at home on February 16 surrounded by her family. She was the beloved wife of Lou for 58 wonderful years, cherished mother of Marcia Cohen (Leonard) and Florie Wachtenheim (Robert). ''Maw Maw'' was adored by all her gra
 LAWRENCE -- Gwendolyn Knight, age 91, artist, born Barbados, 1913. Died peacefully in Seattle, WA on February 18, 2005. Beloved wife of the late painter Jacob Lawrence. Gwen Knight was a woman of graceful strength and heartfelt conviction. As an artist, for almost seven decades she followed
 MacMANUS--Patricia, an editor, writer and critic, died in Washington, DC on February 13. She began as associate editor and feature writer with Harpers Bazaar. For many years she was publicity director at Houghton Mifflin Company and Viking Press, and was an advocate for young writers dissim
 MOED--Marjorie McWilliams November 20, 1916-February 16, 2005. Marjorie McWilliams Moed died quietly at her home in New York, the city of her birth. She was the daughter of the late James and Mildred McWilliams. Her father was the contractor and builder of the Barracks buildings on Governor
 NEIMAN--Sarah (nee Kasenetz) on February 18, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Nathan Neiman. Beloved mother of Dr. Joseph B. Neiman (Karen S.). Daughter of the late Abraham and Fannie Kasenetz. Loving sister of the late Mabel (Dr. Harry Berman). Funeral service at Westchester-Riverside Memori
 O'CONNOR--Colleen A. A journalist, educator and passionate advocate of progressive causes, Colleen died on February 16, 2005 at 55, after a long, courageous struggle with breast cancer. She leaves behind legions of heartbroken friends, who loved and admired her razorsharp wit and tenacious 
 PACKARD--Eleanor Gould, the New Yorker magazine's Miss Gould, 87, died on Sunday, February 13, 2005, at the Village Nursing Home, in Manhattan. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her memory made be made to the New York Public Library or the Central Park Conservancy.       
 St. AUBREY -- Barbara. Blessed to know Barbara, beauty of soul, intuitive wisdom, selfless giving, her courage, her love, now with her angels. Richard       
 STREET--Ann Patterson, in NYC on February 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Wolcott Street, she leaves her sister Averill (Pat) Olson's family, her three step-children, six grandchildren, three greatgrandchildren, and a host of friends. She lived a full & fabulous life. Memorial service, Br
 COHN--Ethel. Died peacefully on February 19, 2005, at the age of 89, survived by her daughters Marcia C. Goldstein and Joyce Spitzer. Services will be private.       
 FREDERICKS--Joan. On February 18, 2005. Beloved mother, sister and friend. Ms. Fredericks was a 30 year veteran of The New York Times Magazine and the widow of Pierce G. Fredericks, who also worked at The Times. She was born in Dayton, Ohio, on March 25, 1929, and graduated from Flora Stone
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005, after her heroic battle against catastrophic injuries suffered in a tragic accident. Adored and adoring wife of Julian; unconditionally loving mother of Teya, David, Rachel and Michael; proud grandmother of Nathan; caring sister of Robert and Alan Mulle
 GILBERTO--Frances. Age 87, died peacefully in her home in New Port Richey, FL, on February 18. She leaves her beloved husband Pasquale of 62 years, her devoted son Pasquale and daughter-inlaw Linda of Yonkers, NY, cherished grandchildren Christine, David, Richard and Gerard, and dear greatg
 NEIMAN--Sarah (nee Kasenetz) on February 18, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Nathan Neiman. Beloved mother of Dr. Joseph B. Neiman (Karen S.). Daughter of the late Abraham and Fannie Kasenetz. Loving sister of the late Mabel (Dr. Harry Berman). Funeral service at Westchester-Riverside Memori
 SCHAPIRO--Edith R. Peacefully, on February 17, 2005, in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Jacques. Dear mother of Inez Reiser and grandmother of Dr. Janet Reiser (Dr. Paul Wax) and Peter (Robin) Reiser. Greatgrandmother of Rebecca and Sarah. Private, immediate family services were hel
 Sandra Dee, the perennially perky, blond-haired and blue-eyed actress who helped American teenagers of the late 1950's and early 1960's cope with the frustrations of adolescent romance and the temptations of premarital sex, died yesterday at the Los Robles Hospital and Medical Center in Tho
 BECKERMAN--Hazel Hart. Died February 19th, 2005. She was the devoted wife of Murray, beloved mother of Martha Birnbaum and Peter who predeceased her. Grandmother to her cherished grandchildren, Kate and Tim. Dear sister of Ruth Hart Gray of Brookline, MA. She will be remembered for her char
 BERKOWITZ--Helen Goldsmith, of Middle Village, died on February 14 in her 101st year as gracefully as she lived. Loved and admired by all who knew her, her devoted sister, daughters, son - in - law, grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren, nieces and nephews.       
 GARCIA--Yolanda. A woman of vision, skill and commitment to her community. We will sorely miss Yolanda, leader of We Stay/Nos Quedamos and our partner in developing the first two apartment buildings in the redevelopment of Melrose, The Bronx. Our condolences to her daughter, Yolie, and her 
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005. A service in celebration of her life will take place at 12 Noon, Thursday, February 24, at Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Ave and 87th St. Interment will be private. For those so inclined, contributions to The Women's Crisis Center, 2 Harris St, Newbury
 HAHN--Doris. 81, on February 20, 2005. Survived by her children, Judge Arlene Hahn, Carol Cabot and Eric Hahn. Services on Wednesday, February 23, at 2 P.M. at Woodlawn Cemetery Chapel. Donations may be made to American Heart Association.       
 MURRAY -- Frances Dell. Granddaughter of President Grover Cleveland. Beloved wife of J. William Murray of Millbrook, NY. Survived by her daughters Margaret Payne Lannamann of Stamford, CT and Marion Klickstein of Andover, ME, six grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren.       
 PALESTIN--Beatrice, on February 21, 2005 at age 99. Devoted wife of the late Ira J. Palestin. Beloved sister of Leona Adler. Cherished aunt of Hazel Rutstein, Meryle Evans, Felice Pester, Jonathan Adler, Louise Burton, Dr. Jonathan Pincus, Dr. Matthew Pincus and the late Adrienne Sullivan a
 PARKER--Norma. September 9, 1929-February 21, 2005. Died at home in Miami Beach after a three year battle with cancer. She is survived by her husband Rus, brother Howard, and son Barry (married to Michele) and grand daughters Rebecca & Carina. Resident of Manhattan in the 1950's-1960's-1970
 BECKERMAN--Hazel Hart. Died February 19th, 2005. She was the devoted wife of Murray, beloved mother of Martha Birnbaum and Peter who predeceased her. Grandmother to her cherished grandchildren, Kate and Tim. Dear sister of Ruth Hart Gray of Brookline, MA. Daughter of the late Ida and Alfred
 CHARNEY -- Rita Dorothy, (nee Greenfield) of New York City and North Branford, CT. Painter, sculptor, jewelry maker, devoted wife of Wolfe, proud mother of Jonathan, Michael, Richard and Robert, loving grandmother of Tamar, Adam, Noah, Erica, Aron, Benjamin and Jordan. Please honor her memo
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005. A service in celebration of her life will take place at 12 Noon, Thursday, February 24, at Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Ave and 87th St. Interment will be private. For those so inclined, contributions to The Women's Crisis Center, 2 Harris St, Newbury
 GNEITING--Robin. Of Pelham, N.Y. died February 18, 2005 at age 49 of breast cancer. She leaves her two wonderful children Alex and Julia Bargmann; her mother Helen and two brothers. Robin was a photographer, an artist, whose works have been exhibited in galleries and museums internationally
 GOLDIN -- Paula. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children Doug, Victoria and Joe. May her memory be for blessing and her family be comforted amidst the mourners of our people in Zion and Jerusalem
 PALESTIN--Beatrice, on February 21, 2005 at age 99. Devoted wife of the late Ira J. Palestin. Beloved sister of Leona Adler. Cherished aunt of Hazel Rutstein, Meryle Evans, Felice Pester, Jonathan Adler, Louise Burton, Dr. Jonathan Pincus, Dr. Matthew Pincus and the late Adrienne Sullivan a
 RICE--Marilyn. Of Delray Beach, FL and Harrison, New York. Died February 21, 2005. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. Funeral service on February 24, 2005 at 2 P.M. at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, New York. RICE--Marilyn. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces wit
 SEKULER--Pauline. On February 21, in her 95th year. Predeceased by her husband George. Mother of Burton and Arthur. Grandmother and great grandmother.       
 ZWINGLI--Janice. Our hearts still ache, missing a great spirit and deeply loved friend. The light she brought will live in our hearts forever. February 23, 1995       
 BATA--Linden Huntoon, nee Linden Frances Huntoon, born August 17, 1953, passed away February 21, 2005, mourned by husband Robert and children Aaron & Victoria and the Bata and Huntoon families and her numberless friends around the world. Services Sunday February 27, 11:45AM, at ''The Rivers
 BECKERMAN--Hazel Hart. Died February 19th, 2005. She was the devoted wife of Murray, beloved mother of Martha Birnbaum and Peter who predeceased her. Grandmother to her cherished grandchildren, Kate and Tim. Dear sister of Ruth Hart Gray of Brookline, MA. Daughter of the late Ida and Alfred
 GEIGER--Jeanne. On February 18, 2005. A service in celebration of her life will take place at 12 Noon, Thursday, February 24, at Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Ave and 87th St. Interment will be private. For those so inclined, contributions to The Women's Crisis Center, 2 Harris St, Newbury
 GILMAN -- Arline. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, Arline Gilman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 GOODMAN -- Rebecca G. With great love and respect, Becky's family announces that she has passed on. She is predeceased by her beloved husband, Phil Goodman. She was a devoted church member and shared her inspiration by serving in many different ways. She was also a life-long history scholar
 MITCHELL - INNES -- Frances. Died peacefully in Cambridge, MA on February 23. The only daughter of Alexander (Sandie) Mitchell-Innes, and Anne Mitchell-Innes (nee Howard), Francie was born in Philadelphia, PA, in 1940. She will be greatly missed by her brother, Sam, and her sister, Lucy, as
 TAUB--Edna. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved, longtime member, Edna Taub, widow of the late Emanuel Taub and mother of Joan Ades. We will miss her loyalty to our congregation. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all her dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rab
 WOLFE--Mary Stormont. 97 died February 19 in Heightstown, NJ. Wife of the late Professor Don M. Wolfe, she is survived by her daughter Sarah Notter, two grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Saturday 11:30AM Nassau Presbyterian Church, 61 Nassau St., Pr
 Simone Simon, the French actress of near-feline beauty best known to American audiences for her haunting role in the 1942 RKO horror film ''Cat People,'' died on Tuesday in Paris. She was 93. Her death was announced by her friends and family to Agence France-Presse. In ''Cat
 Uli Derickson, the Trans World Airlines flight attendant honored for saving passengers' lives in 1985 by both confronting and mollifying terrorist hijackers, died on Friday at her home in Tucson. She was 60. Ms. Derickson was still working as a flight attendant for Delta Air Lines w
 EPSTEIN--Rita Susan. The Maisel Family mourns the loss of their beloved Aunt Sue. We will never forget her dedication to family, her vitality, strength and love of life. She was always our friend, always there for us and we will miss her greatly.       
 GILMAN--Arline, 75 years old, died on February 22, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Seymour ''Sy'' Antor. Sister of the late Ira Gilman. Dearest aunt of Jodi Gilman and Jeff and Alysa Gilman and sisterin-law of Della Gilman. Also survived by a grand nephew Adam & grand niece Kaitlyn. Gravesid
 KUH--Toby A. On February 24, 2005. Beloved wife of Richard. Devoted mother of Steven. Dear sister of Roy Ans. Donations in her memory may be made to a charity of choice. Services Sunday 2PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MARMOR--Louise Tulchin, 86, of Jackson Heights, NY, died on February 23rd. Beloved wife of Benjamin Marmor, mother of Neil and Joan Marmor, Susan and David Smolin, Michael and Gloria Marmor, Bonnie and Steve Goldstein. Cherished grandmother to Craig and Peter Smolin, Nicholas and Daniel Mar
 PHILLIPS--Barbara-Mae, 59, died December 17, 2004, of thyroid cancer. At the time of her passing, she was a stage manager for ''The Phantom of the Opera'' in New York. During her career of over 35 years, she worked on Broadway, in regional theater and toured extensively. A memorial service 
 ROSENBERG -- Anne, (nee Feldman), of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of East Meadow, NY, passed away February 24, 2005. Beloved wife of Murray Rosenberg. Loving mother of Linda Rosenberg of NY, NY and Judy & Rabbi Carl Wolkin of Northbrook, IL. Cherished grandmother of Joshua & David Wolkin. Anne 
 ROSENBLATT--Louise, on February 8, age 100. The Steinhardt School of Education mourns the loss of Professor Emerita Louise Rosenblatt. Celebrated scholar, gifted researcher, and revered teacher, Louise's groundbreaking book, ''Literature as Exploration'' (1938), made her a pioneer in readin
 CRUNDEN--Eleanor. The Board of Governors and full membership of the Cedarhurst Yacht Club mourn the passing of our friend and former Commodore, Ellie Crunden. We will remember fondly the way she led the Yacht Club with warmth, intelligence and good humor. Her course was steady and her sails
 MOORE--Elaine Pohl. June 18, 1927-February 25, 2005. Wife of the late Melvin Moore, M.D., mother of Abigail and Eli, mother-in-law of Lynn, grandmother of Benjamin Wexler and Alyssa and Melanie Moore, sister of Bernice Pohl Feldman. Passed away after a courageous struggle following a long i
 ROSENBERG -- Ethyl Felt, wife of the late Theodore Rosenberg, and loving mother of Frederic D. Rosenberg, passed away Monday, February 21. She was buried in Roosevelt Memorial Park, Philadelphia, PA, on Wednesday, February 23. There will be a memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2PM, at 35
 Gwendolyn Knight, a painter and sculptor from the 1930's who emerged from the shadow of her husband, the painter Jacob Lawrence, late in her life, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Seattle. She was 91. Although Ms. Knight did not begin to exhibit formally until the 1970's and was long 
 CURTIS--Helena, age 81 on February 11, 2005. Of Sag Harbor, N.Y. Noted science writer and college biology textbook author. Survived by son Mark, daughter Sarah & six grandchildren. She will be greatly missed. Donations may be made to Animal Rescue Fund, Box 901, Wainscott, N.Y. 11975. Conta
 DAVIS--Sylvia. On February 25, 2005, in her 89th year. A lifelong New Yorker, a clincial social worker and psychotherapist for 60 years. Loved by the people she touched, Ms. Davis dedicated her life to the well being of others with profound wisdom and limitless patience. Remembered for her 
 ECKMAN -- Adeline. 77, Greenwich, CT, on February 20, 2005. A graduate of CCNY. Loving and devoted wife of 52 years to the late Sidney Eckman. Her love, nurturing influence and zest for life will be missed by her children, Dr. Mark Eckman and Heidi Silverstein, brothers Bernard, Harold, and
 GILMAN--Arline, 75 years old, died on February 22, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Seymour ''Sy'' Antor. Sister of the late Ira Gilman. Dearest aunt of Jodi Gilman and Jeff and Alysa Gilman and sisterin-law of Della Gilman. Also survived by a grand nephew Adam & grand niece Kaitlyn. Gravesid
 HOCHBERG--Anna. 99 years old, died on February 24, 2005. Beloved wife of the late George Hochberg. Devoted sister of Pauline Rosenblum and Shirley Abel and the late Samuel Waltzer, Rose Hochberg and Martha Turner. Survived by her daughter, Barbara Kavee, and son, Martin Hochberg, grandchild
 KAMHI--Rae. Born October 10, 1905. Beloved wife of the late Aaron. Mother of Julius ''Jerry'' (Mildred), Betty Benezra (Sam). Predeceased by her sons, Ralph and Sheldon (Joyce). Loving sister of Alice Wolff. Grandmother of nine, great-grandmother of 22, great-great-grandmother of three. Man
 LEWIS--Edith Patton. On behalf of the nursing profession, we record our sorrow at the death of Pat Lewis. For 60 years, she wielded a sharp editorial pen, having served as editor of Nursing Outlook, Nursing Research and the American Journal of Nursing, as an investigative reporter, and more
 McCLELLAND -- Pamela Turner, of Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, died at home Thursday, February 24, 2005. Born in Detroit, MI, Mrs. McClelland was a graduate of the Masters School and attended Smith College and the Sorbonne. She married James Farley McClelland, Jr. in June 1945 and lived in New Ha
 MOORE--Elaine Pohl. June 18, 1927-February 25, 2005. Wife of the late Melvin Moore, M.D., mother of Abigail and Eli, mother-in-law of Lynn, grandmother of Benjamin Wexler and Alyssa and Melanie Moore, sister of Bernice Pohl Feldman. Passed away after a courageous struggle following a long i
 PALMA--Margaret, 95, died February 20, 2005. Her stage name was Sally Avery. Married to the late Bernie Fletcher and late the Daniel Palma, Margaret is survived by her son, Joe (Linda) Fletcher and grandchildren Tom and Gregory Fletcher and Allison Lanty and great-grandchildren, John and Li
 PETERSON--Gloria Deal, age 55, of Southampton and New York City, died suddenly on February 6th, 2005. Loving mother to Blair de Zagon and devoted grandmother to Alexandre and Ava de Zagon. She will be deeply missed.       
 ROSENBERG -- Ethyl Felt, wife of the late Theodore Rosenberg, and loving mother of Frederic D. Rosenberg, passed away Monday, February 21. She was buried in Roosevelt Memorial Park, Philadelphia, PA, on Wednesday, February 23. There will be a memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2PM, at 35
 STONE -- Dorothy. Much loved wife of the late Morton D. Stone, died on February 25, 2005, at the age of 90. A longtime Brooklynite and passionate New Yorker, she was the mainstay of Morton law office and the center of her family. She loved and was loved by her children, John Stone and Alice
 SUNSHINE--Margaret, 89, on January 26, 2005. Well known make up designer for Broadway, movies, TV. Personal make up designer for Lauren Bacall, Ann Reinking, Joanne Woodward, Meryl Streep, Swoozie Kurtz, Barbara Harris, Bette Davis, etc. Everyone she touched became more beautiful. She will 
 TAPISSIER -- Audrey (nee Cooke) aged 83, died peacefully and gracefully at home with her family. Dearly loved wife of ''Taps,'' the late Dr. M. E. Tapissier of Notton, Yorkshire, England. Mother of Mary (Birch), Ruth (Grace) and Claire (Doherty); grandmother of Simon, Tom, William, Kate, El
 BURCH--Anita. Devoted sister of Marsha. Loving mother of David and Lisa. Cherished grandmother of Sarah Rose and Samuel Benjamin. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 DREYFUS -- Blanche Nus baum. Of Blue Bell, PA, died peacefully February 26, 2005, after enjoying one century and 27 days of love with her daughters Martha D. Wagner and the late Sally Kalish, five grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren, all of whom miss her already.       
 HOCHBERG--Anna. 99 years old, died on February 24, 2005. Beloved wife of the late George Hochberg. Devoted sister of Pauline Rosenblum and Shirley Abel and the late Samuel Waltzer, Rose Hochberg and Martha Turner. Survived by her daughter, Barbara Kavee, and son, Martin Hochberg, grandchild
 McCLELLAND -- Pamela Turner, of Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, died at home Thursday, February 24, 2005. Born in Detroit, MI, Mrs. McClelland was a graduate of the Masters School and attended Smith College and the Sorbonne. She married James Farley McClelland, Jr. in June 1945 and lived in New Ha
 OKSENBERG--Eva. On February 26, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Ignace. Devoted mother of Anne Fridman and son-in-law of Natalio. Loving grandmother of David. She escaped Nazi Europe and faced life's challenges with courage, strength and determination. She was a woman of dignity, devoted to 
 SHUKAT--Florence. On February 25, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harry for 70 years. Devoted mother, and loving grandmother and greatgrandmother. She died of a broken heart and is now with her beloved Harry. She will be missed by all.       
 SWIGER -- Muriel (Merle) Wolfe. A native of Chicago, and recently of Stamford, CT, died peacefully in her sleep at home, on February 25, 2005. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Susan Luftman and the late Ellen Swiger. She is survived her grandsons Andrew and Jonathan. She will be love
 TOLEDO--Sofie. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
