 Joan Braden, a former State Department official who was a hostess and friend to high-ranking Washington figures and whose eight children inspired the ABC television series ''Eight Is Enough,'' died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. She was 77 and a longtime resident of the Washington area.      
 VAN SLEET LEVINE-Barbara. Our beloved mother and friend Barbara Van Sleet Levine passed away on Saturday, August 28. She always put her children before herself. For further information, please call 908-889-7125.       
 BESS-Barbara E., M.D. New York Medical College was deeply saddened to learn of the death of our distinquished alumna, Barbara E. Bess, MD '65, who for many years was an integral part of the College's psychiatry residency training program at our University Hospital, Metropolitan Hospital Cen
 BLACKMORE-Joan, 64, died on Friday, August 27, at her home in Greenwich, CT. from cancer. She was the wife of Robert C. Blackmore. Born in Cape Town, South Africa, July 14, 1935, she was the daughter of Muriel P. Ruick and the late Felix DeCola. Mrs. Blackmore grew up in Los Angeles where s
 BOILLOT-Lynn Hochschild. On August 29th, 1999. Beloved mother of Etienne, Paul, Dominique and Nicolas, mother-in-law of Lisa and Tanya. Attended The Brearley School in New York and Barnard College; received a Master's in Fine Arts from The Institute of Fine Arts. Served as a Trustee of The 
 GELLER-Marion. Age 84, formerly of Manhattan. Architect/designer, playwright, past president Rosehill Community Association, died August 25, 1999 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Wife of the late Abraham W. Geller, Architect. Survived by daughters Amy and Janice, son-in law-Kevin, grandsons 
 GOLDMAN-Rose. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center note with deep sorrow the death of Rose Goldman, beloved mother of I. David Goldman, M.D., Acting Chairman of the Department of Medical Oncology and Director of the Albert Einstein Comprehensive Cancer Center. We
 GREENE-Patricia E. (Trish), RN, PhD. ''Cancer Practice'', an American Cancer Society publication, mourns the death of Trish Greene. Her vision of a multidisciplinary journal dedicated to promoting the highest standards of cancer care was the critical element in the founding of the journal. 
 HANAUER - Florence. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Florence Hanauer. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 SCHLESINGER-Ruth on August 31 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Schlesinger. Dear mother of Murry (Beverly) Schlesinger and Ethel Schlesinger. Adored grandmother of Diana and Matthew. Graveside services Wednesday, 1 PM at Mount Carmel Cemetery.       
 Louise Alone Thompson Patterson, an advocate of civil rights and leftist causes, a participant in the Harlem Renaissance and a longtime associate of one of its leading figures, the poet Langston Hughes, died on Friday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 97. The 1920'
 BITROS-Mara. The staff and students of Career Blazers Learning Center deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend Mara Bitros. A compassionate and caring individual, Mara made a significant impact on those around her. Her strong commitment to assisting dislocated workers and disadvan
 BOILLOT-Lynn Hochschild. The Trustees, faculty, staff and students of Paul Smith's, The College of the Adirondacks, mourn the loss of Lynn Hochschild Boillot, a leader among the College's Board of Trustees. An articulate advocate of the College's initiative to create a regional super-librar
 CARTER-Pauline. Mom, life without you to talk to, and reminisce with, is unimaginable. You brought unbridled joy into my life. Your sense of humor ensured that every phone call and visit was filled with happiness. Your loving and sweet voice will be heard forever. The fullness of your life 
 CAVELLERO-BAILEY-Kim, Vice President & Director of Marketing and Sales of M.E. Sharpe Publisher, died along with her 8-year-old daughter, Jessica, in a tragic roller coaster accident in Ocean City, New Jersey, on August 28. She was 39. Known to everyone in the publishing trade as Kim Cavell
 DRISCOLL-Jane, 73, on August 17th, 1999. Jane's family and friends will gather to remember her, Sunday, September 5th, 1999, at 12:30 PM, at the Cafe Torino, 139 W. 10th St., NYC. She is survived by her loving son, Roderick, and her three grandchildren, Kaitlin, Travis and Kiley, and by her
 FRANK-Sally Ruth, 73, died on August 31 after a long illness. A retired New York City schoolteacher, she was beloved of her many friends and family. She is survived by her uncle, Ralph Sheffer, of Westport, Conn., and cousins Ann Sheffer, also of Westport; Douglas Sheffer of Aspen, Colo.; a
 GOLDBERG-Ruth. Beloved wife and friend of Bob. Daughter of Lillian Feder. Mother of Susan Holmes (Randy) & Bonnie Ellman (Dennis). Grandmother of Alex, Lindsay, Scott and Jordan. She also leaves behind her sister Barbara (Joe), her nephew Richard (Jody) and their children Jessica, Scott and
 GREIF-Nettie, age 94, of New York City, died August 31. Former teacher of mathematics at Seward Park High School. After retirement, passed many fulfilling years in continued learning and teaching with friends at Institute for Retired Professionals and Quest. Avid painter and lifetime member
 MELTZER-Claire (nee Sachs), age 86 in Tamarac, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died August 28, 1999 at her home in Florida. She was the beloved wife of the late George (Max); mother of Michael and Martin, grandmother of Jessica, Melissa, Tracy, Deborah and Gary; great grandmother of Nina and 
 SLOTKIN OKIN-Babette. Of Palm Beach, FL and formerly of New York City and Detroit, MI, passed away on August 31, 1999 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Robert Okin. Devoted mother of Donald, Mitchell, Curt and Todd Slotkin, her children from her marriage to the late Hugo Slotkin. Cheri
 UMANS-Shelley Barnett. Age 82. On September 1, 1999, at her home in Manhattan. She was the wife of the late Henry J. Umans and had served in the NYC Public School System for many years. Mrs. Umans was a graduate of Hunter College and Teachers College, Columbia University. She began her care
 Jeanne Miles, an American painter of luminous geometric abstractions, died last Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 90. Ms. Miles was born in Baltimore and grew up in Washington. She was the first woman to enroll in the art school at George Washington University. In 1937, s
 ABRONS-Mary Goldwater. Age 84, died on Thursday, September 2, 1999 at her home in New York City after a long illness. She is survived by her brother, James Goldwater, three children, a son, Dr. Henry Abrons, two daughters, Alix Abrons and Anne Abrons, and four grandchildren. Private memoria
 BOILLOT-Lynn Hochschild was elected in 1981 to the Board of Directors of The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation. In the intervening years, she brought to our deliberations a perceptive understanding of our mission in the field of convalescence and a deep sense of compassion for those le
 BUCKLER-Norma Mayes. Loving nurturer of all that grew on earth or walked on four legs. She leaves behind a grieving husband and family, many friends and co-workers. The light and support she brought will be sorely missed by all who knew her.       
 GOLDBERG-Ruth F. The Partners, Associates and Employees of Koeppel & Koeppel mourn the passing of our trusted and valued co-worker for 26 years. Her diligence and concern were truly hallmarks of the second career she started with us after raising her daughters. She will be sorely missed. We
 JACOBSEN-Vera Rupf, 81. Died in her sleep on September 2, 1999. Born August 16, 1918, in Brooklyn, New York. She had been an active volunteer at the Luthern Medical Center, and The Church of the Good Shepherd. Devoted mother of Gloria Lang, John, Alfred, and Carol Jacobsen. Loving grandmoth
 LAYTON-Dorothy Hirschhorn of Scarborough, NY, died September 1, 1999. Survived by her husband Bernard of Scarborough, NY, her sister Edith Barton of New York City, two nieces and one nephew. Private services were held. Memorial contirbutions to Rosary Hill Home, 600 Linda Ave, Hawthorne, N.
 ORDOVER-Carol M. Of Atlanta, GA. Died on September 1, 1999. She is survived by her husband Abraham Ordover. Sons, Andrew Ordover and his wife Heather of New York, and Thomas Ordover and his wife Linda of Chicago. Mother Vera Mensher, New York City, brother John Mensher and his wife Gail, Se
 PEARLMAN-Muriel. Resident of Century Village, Palm Beach, FL. Interment Friday, Sept. 3, 11:00 A.M. Beth Moses Cemetery, Wellwood, L.I. She has created a great void in our lives. Always cheerful, happy, lively. We will miss her. Irving and Evelyn Stern Family       
 SLOTKIN-Babette Okin. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Babette Okin Slotkin, a dedicated friend to the Jewish community. Through her good work, she supported the world of our services and embodied the compassion
 SPIEGEL-Edita. The entire Board of the American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth mourns the loss of our devoted benefactor Edita Spiegel, a guiding force behind the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel-Aviv. A great woman of valor who will be missed by all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to he
 BOILLOT-Lynn Hochschild was elected in 1981 to the Board of Directors of The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation. In the intervening years, she brought to our deliberations a perceptive understanding of our mission in the field of convalescence and a deep sense of compassion for those le
 HORNBY-Kathleen, age 53, a longtime New York City resident and school teacher, died at her Santa Barbara home September 2, 1999 after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by Geoffrey, Matthew, Louise and her dear dogs. Services will be held at the Trinity Episcopal Church, Santa Barbar
 LEVIN-Hannah. Loving sister of Shulamis Friedman and aunt of Daniel Goldberg, Judith-Kate and Alan Friedman, Michael, Ruth and Jacqueline Levin. Great aunt of Jessica and Laura Goldberg and Jacob, Noah and Andrew Levin. Died suddenly September 2, 1999. She was a tower of strength to her fam
 MIRKIN-Ray Ruth. On September 3rd, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Lila and Sol, Harris and Kathy. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be deeply missed. Graveside service Sunday, 11 AM, at Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.       
 SACHAR-Ruth. A very special lady passed away on Friday, September 3, 1999. Beloved, and cherished wife of the late Irving Sachar. Devoted and adored mother of Randi and Michael. Loving mother-in-law of Sherry and devoted grandmother of Taryn, Nicole and Max. Survived by her loving sister Be
 SLOTKIN OKIN-Babette. Of Palm Beach, FL and formerly of New York City and Detroit, MI, passed away on August 31, 1999 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Robert Okin. Devoted mother of Donald, Mitchell, Curt and Todd Slotkin, her children from her marriage to the late Hugo Slotkin. Cheri
 TAFURI-Carmela. Of Brooklyn, New York, on September 2, 1999. Retired Principal's Secretary, Fort Hamilton High School. Loved by her family. Visitng Sunday and Monday 2-5 and 7-9PM at the N.F. Walker Funeral Home, 2039 Merrick Avenue, Merrick. Services Monday, 8 P.M. Funeral Tuesday, at 10 A
 WOLFE-Irving. The members and staff of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida wish to express their condolences to our fellow member Naomi Wolfe and family on the passing of her husband Irving. The Board of Governors Bernard Howard, President       
 AMSTER-Vivian. 79, of Enfield, CT, died August 28, 1999. Survived by husband Sid, sons David and Larry, brother Herbert, and five grandchildren. Made her mark on every life she touched.       
 EVANS-Sarah ''Sally'' McElroy. 53, on Tuesday, August 31, at home in Washington, D.C. Survived by husband, Bob Evans; father, Frank X. McElroy of Rockville Centre, NY; brothers, John Peter of Rockville Centre, Francis ''Tony'' of Huntington, NY, Terence of Barrington, IL, William of Scottsd
 FORMAN-Doris M. Of North Hills, New York, on September 3rd, 1999, at age 81. Much loved wife of Harry N. Forman. Survived also by her sister, Elizabeth M.F. Cort of Wellesley, Mass.; a niece, Diane Coleman of Canton, Mass.; and a nephew, Dwight Fletcher of Bristol, R.I. Funeral private.    
 GORDON-Geraldine P. Of Palm Beach Gardens, FL; August 21 after a long illness. Born October 13, 1928, in Huntington, NY, to the late William Poli and Marie Ferrara Poli. Devoted daughter, the beloved wife of the late Sol Gordon, and adoring mother and grandmother, a businesswoman, and a sma
 HOAR-Helen McAlpin, 75, at the Manor in Hyannis, MA., on August 29, 1999. Widow of Professor George A. Hoar, Ph.D., History Department, Cape Cod Community College, whom she married in 1947 in Williamstown, MA. Survived by sisters Dorothy Potter McAlpin & Martha McAlpin Ayars; brothers-in-la
 LASSAR-Luba. Widow of Philip H. Lassar. Formerly of Montreal and New York. Passed away in Florida, August 15. Lovingly remembered by her American family, Naomi and Albert Levine, grand children, and great grand children.       
 MIRKIN-Ray Ruth. On September 3rd, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Lila and Sol, Harris and Kathy. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be deeply missed. Graveside service Sunday, 11 AM, at Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.       
 PERLMUTTER-Dorothy M. (nee Plafker). Beloved wife of the late Dr. Matthew. Cherished mother of Lyle Perlmutter, Bonnie and Louis Kravitz. Loving sister of Gertrude Sheldon. Adored aunt to her nieces and nephews. Services Sunday, 12 noon, at Gramercy Chapel, 152 2nd Ave., Manhattan.       
 ROSENBAUM - Lillian. Died peacefully on September 3, 1999. Deceased husband Murray Rosenbaum. Deceased son Ronald E. Seff. Adored by her devoted daughter Marylin and devoted son-in-law Lou Ross, and loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. ROSENBAUM-Lillian. Nana, we miss you s
 SACHAR-Ruth. A very special lady passed away on Friday, September 3, 1999. Beloved, and cherished wife of the late Irving Sachar. Devoted and adored mother of Randi and Michael. Loving mother-in-law of Sherry and devoted grandmother of Taryn, Nicole and Max. Survived by her loving sister Be
 SCHWARTZ-Doris R., M.A., R.N. The staff and faculty of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of their esteemed colleague, Doris R. Schwartz. A long-time member of the faculties of the Cornell University-New York Hospital Sc
 SLOTKIN OKIN-Babette. Of Palm Beach, FL and formerly of New York City and Detroit, MI, passed away on August 31, 1999 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Robert Okin. Devoted mother of Donald, Mitchell, Curt and Todd Slotkin, her children from her marriage to the late Hugo Slotkin. Cheri
 DICKINSON-Corinne (Corky) E. Goldsmith. Died on September 5, in New York City after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. She was 51 years old. Mother of Philip Samuel Dickinson, daughter of Hildi Hill of Charlottesville, VA, and Clifford H. Goldsmith of New York City. Sister of Audrey J. 
 SCHAUMBURGER-Flora K. On August 31. Loving wife of her dearly beloved husband Norman who loved her very much. Wonderful mother of Norman Jr., Ann and Nora. Cherished sister of the late Edgar Allen Kubalek. Proud grandmother of Julia. Mother-inlaw of Warren. Her courage in her last years was
 SLOTKIN OKIN-Babette. Of Palm Beach, FL and formerly of New York City and Detroit, MI, passed away on August 31, 1999 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Robert Okin. Devoted mother of Donald, Mitchell, Curt and Todd Slotkin, her children from her marriage to the late Hugo Slotkin. Cheri
 WEINBAUM-Ernestine ''Missy.'' Age 81, on September 4, 1999. Daughter of the late Bernard and Ernestine Weinbaum. She will be mourned by her cousins, dear friends, and her pet, Skeesix. Services Wednesday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 BOEHM-BRAND-Mathilda. Age 98, of Jackson Heights, NY, died on Sunday, September 5, 1999 after a short illness and a very full life. Tyda was born in Poland and witnessed and participated in truly remarkable and historic events. She experienced two World Wars, survived Siberian prisons, live
 DICKINSON-Corinne (Corky) E. Goldsmith. Died on September 5, in New York City after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. She was 51 years old. Mother of Philip Samuel Dickinson, daughter of Hildi Hill of Charlottesville, VA, and Clifford H. Goldsmith of New York City. Sister of Audrey J. 
 EDELSON-Lily J. Died on September 3, after 101 productive years-world traveler, career woman, much loved and admired. Her family-Sheila Strasser, Ken and Gladys Goldberg, Ira and Seena Solomon and Lou Seigel grieve her passing but celebrate her life.       
 FREIRICH-Constance (nee Benson). On September 4, 1999 after a long illness. Ever beloved wife of Jerry, sister of Alan Benson, devoted mother to Jeff, Stephanie, Roy and Amy and their spouses. Adored grandmother of Jonathan, Elizabeth, and Tanya Freirich, Jeremy Goodman, Emily Taylor, Rache
 GILLESPIE-Ruth Reed, 86. Died on Sunday, September 5 at her home in NYC. Former head librarian at Collegiate School and Alumni President and Trustee of the Chapin School, survived by her daughter, Jane Brown Grimes of New York and Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania and her son, Samuel H. Gillespie, 
 NEWMAN-Frances L. Suddenly on September 4, 1999, of Aventura, Florida. Beloved wife of Albert. Adoring mother of Jane Newman Lubart, Nancy Newman & Dianne Newman Bulmer. Loving Grandma to Gabrielle, Allie, Sarah, Alex and David. She was cherished and will be deeply missed by all of her fami
 RICHARDS-Dorothea. At the age of 91, on September 5, 1999. Beloved mother of Fred. Active member of Union Congregational Church. New York City school teacher for forty years. She will be cremated.       
 SCHILLER-Gertrude. 91, of Chicago, Illinois, formerly of Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens, New York, died September 3, after a short illness. She loved life, her children and grandchildren, hiking, folk dancing, opera and traveling. She was a longtime member of the New York State Hiking Club.
 WEINBAUM-Ernestine ''Missy.'' Age 81, on September 4, 1999. Daughter of the late Bernard and Ernestine Weinbaum. She will be mourned by her cousins, dear friends, and her pet, Skeesix. Services Wednesday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 CIFU-Rosa Schwarz. Age 64. Of Wilmington, North Carolina, formerly of Syosset, New York. Died September 5th, 1999. Beloved wife of John L. Cifu for over 43 years. Devoted mother of John, David & Douglas. Caring mother-in-law of Annmarie, Ingrid and Melissa. Loving grandmother of Amanda, Jam
 DICKINSON-Corinne (Corky) E. Goldsmith. Died on September 5, in New York City after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. She was 51 years old. Mother of Philip Samuel Dickinson, daughter of Hildi Hill of Charlottesville, VA, and Clifford H. Goldsmith of New York City. Sister of Audrey J. 
 GILLESPIE-Ruth Reed, 86. Died on Sunday, September 5 at her home in NYC. Former head librarian at Collegiate School and Alumni President and Trustee of the Chapin School, survived by her daughter, Jane Brown Grimes of New York and Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania and her son, Samuel H. Gillespie, 
 HIRSCHLAND-Ellen Berney. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art note with profound sorrow the passing of our former Trustee, long time friend and supporter, Ellen Hirschland. As a member of the Collections/Exhibitions Committee of the Board and as an art historian, a
 ISAACS-Pauline. On September 7, 1999. She is survived by her sister Lillian Rudinsky, nieces Susan Ember, Sharon Teller, and Marcia Koral, nephew Neal Cohen. Services on Thursday, 1:30 PM at Mount Lebanon Cemetery.       
 MANZO-Josephine, age 87 of Long Beach, NY on September 5, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Anthony Manzo, gracious and devoted mother, grandmother and great grandmother. She is survived by her children Ann Goldberg and Frank Manzo and his wife Helene. Also survived by eight grandchildren, Mar
 MCCARTHY-Maureen. Age 63, passed away at Memorial Hospital on September 3, 1999, succumbing to metastatic sarcoma cancer. She was born in Richmond, Virginia, to William and Florence Goggin. Resided in Beverly, Mass. graduating from Beverly High School in 1953. Graduate of Leslie College, Ca
 SAPHIER-Beatrice K. Beloved wife of Peter. Devoted mother of Michael and Stewart and motherin-law of Ruthanne and Jane. Cherished grandmother of David, Adam, Elisa & Brian. Loving sister of Reuben Koenig. Services Thursday, 11:30 AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza,
 SHAHERY-Kokab. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Kokab Shahery, beloved mother of Yosef Shahery, a dear friend and dedicated leader in our Iranian Sephardic Campaign. We extend our sincerest condolences to Yosef and hi
 SONFIELD-Anne. On September 6, 1999 at age 85 in Oakland, CA. Beloved wife of Edwin (deceased); mother of Lynn, Matthew and Judith; grandmother of Nikki, Adam and Brian; and sister of Sara. Previously of Great Neck, Brookville & Manhasset. Trustee of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center an
 UNGER-Shirley, died peacefully at home on August 7 after a long illness. She was preceded in death by her husband, Richard Unger, and is survived by her brother, Melvin Zimet, and her nephews, John and Paul Zimet. Mrs. Unger was a former president of the New York Metropolitan Chapter of the
 Lenon Hoyte, better known as Aunt Len, who shared her dream of a doll museum with Harlem children and  collectors from around the world for two decades, died Aug. 1 at a hospital in New York. She was 94. A public school art teacher, she  founded Aunt Len's Doll and Toy Museum, one o
 BROWNSTEIN-Ruth Lynn, 85. Of Annapolis, Maryland. Formerly of West Hempstead and Great Neck, New York. Died September 6. Mrs. Brownstein was co-founder of the first public library in West Hempstead and worked as a librarian for the Plainedge and Uniondale Public School systems. Preceded in 
 GILLESPIE-Ruth Reed, 86. Died on Sunday, September 5 at her home in NYC. Former head librarian at Collegiate School and Alumni President and Trustee of the Chapin School, survived by her daughter, Jane Brown Grimes of New York and Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania and her son, Samuel H. Gillespie, 
 HALLENBORG-Janet, 62, of New York City, died August 21, 1999 after a ten month battle with appendicile cancer. She attended Bennington College and graduated New York University with a B.S. in Art Education. A jewelry designer, flamenco dancer and world traveler, she leaves a mother in Hawai
 HARRISON-Josephine Elizabeth. Of Palm Beach, Florida, died on Sunday, September 5, 1999 at Good Samaritan Hospital after an extended illness. She is survived by her husband, Ridgely Harrison; her two daughters, Christine Berry and Cynthia Shafer; and her two sons, Michael and Bryan Cozad. A
 KIRSCHBAUM-Pearl, on August 25th in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Kirschbaum. Dear mother of Mark Berger. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, Joseph, Alan, Gregory and Larisa. Devoted mother-in-law of Betty and Andrea. Memorial service 1PM, Sept. 19, Town Club, 9 East 86th Str
 MAHER-Muriel D. On September 4, 1999. Retired employee of Time, Inc. Daughter of the late Frances (O'Donald) & W. Edgar. Survived by her brothers Walter J., M.D., Frank and John R. and sisters Dorothy Davy, Joan Finnan Robinson and Margaret (Peggy) Duffney. Predeceased by her brothers Rev. 
 SAPHIER-Beatrice K. Beloved wife of Peter. Devoted mother of Michael and Stewart and motherin-law of Ruthanne and Jane. Cherished grandmother of David, Adam, Elisa & Brian. Loving sister of Reuben Koenig. Services Thursday, 11:30 AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza,
 SCHWARZSCHILD-Helen Zeiger. Adoring and loving wife of the late Myron, & proud mother of the late Arthur & the late Leah. Devoted sister of the late and beloved Joseph, Gertrude, Louis & Samuel Zeiger. Beloved sister-in-law of the late Joseph, late Doris, late Frederick, late Doris, Kay, Gr
 UNGER-Shirley, died peacefully at home on August 7 after a long illness. She was preceded in death by her husband, Richard Unger, and is survived by her brother, Melvin Zimet, and her nephews, John and Paul Zimet. Mrs. Unger was a former president of the New York Metropolitan Chapter of the
 KITTNER-Kitty. 9/9/05-3/21/99. A pure spirit. A sad end. From those who loved her: Pauline, Pepi, Ruth, Alice, Charles, Eulene       
 Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex. She was 63.    
 ABRAMS-Sherley, of NYC. Beloved sister of Laurel Beaty. Wonderful aunt of Andrew, Shawn, Bonnie and Yoko Beaty. Adoring great-aunt of Brian, Emily, Rebekah and Mariko. She will be missed by her family and many dear friends. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, September 12th, at 11 AM, 
 CRAWFORD-Elizabeth Jane, lawyer, on September 5, 1999 in Oswego, NY. Senior partner of Crawford & Connelly, 1165 Park Ave, NYC, formerly associated with Mudge, Stern, Williams and Tucker, 40 Wall St, NYC and Manhattan Legal Service of East 116 St, NYC. She was a founder of The Caedmon Monte
 FURTH-Dora. On September 8, 1999. One of the early female graduates of NYU Law School; an associate in the Estates and Trusts Department of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shiver and Jacobson from 1950 to 1984; after her retirement from that firm, associated with the Law Offices of Paul J. Schrag and
 HORLICK-Ruth. Beloved wife of Samuel Horlick and of the late Arthur J. Kalmanowitz. Cherished mother of Lenore and Gilbert Horowitz, Dr. Arlene Kalman Eschwege and Stephen F. Eschwege, Drs. Allan and Mary Horlick, Dr. Jeoffrey and Sally Horlick. Adored grandmother of Daniel and Lisa Horowit
 KARAGHEUSIAN-Leila. September 6, 1999. Beloved daughter of the late Zabelle and Mihran Karagheusian. She was a philanthropist and president of the Howard Karagheusian Commemorative Corp. She was 96. Service Saturday, September 11 at 11:30AM, at Frank E. Campbell at 1076 Madison Avenue at 81
 MARGOLIS-Sophie (nee Siegel), of Cherry Hill, NJ, on September 7th, 1999. Wife of the late Max. Mother of Drs. Gerald (June) Margolis and Helen (Bruce) Oxman. Sister of Edith Bersson and Victor Siegel. Also survived by five grandsons, one step-granddaughter and twelve great-grandchildren. S
 ORGAIN-Martha Chastain. Born October 16, 1917 and deceased September 9, 1999, was the beloved mother of five sons, Benno C. Schmidt, Jr.; Ralph Schmidt; Thomas Schmidt, deceased; John Schmidt and William Schmidt. She was the devoted grandmother of eleven and the great-grandmother of one. Sh
 RADABAUGH-Ann Wallach, 54, of Lakeland, FL, on Sept. 7. Born in New Rochelle, NY, daughter of the late Dr. Robert and Florence Wallach. She will be dearly missed by her beloved husband John and daughter Kate, her family and many friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The 
 ROPER-Marion E. Died in Manhattan, September 8, 1999 after many years of heart disease. Born and raised in Gainesville, GA and graduated from Brenau College and retired from Con Edison in NY. Survived by her loving sister, Margaret Roper Carroll; cherished friend Carole Edwardes; many niece
 DORSKY-Ruth. On September 10, 1999, in Denville, NJ, after a long illness. She will be remembered as a caring and loving wife, mother, grandmother, sister-in-law, aunt and friend. We shall miss you, Ruthie.       
 FURTH-Dora. Born in Berlin, 1912, died peacefully September 8 at home in the loving company of her family. She will be fondly remembered and greatly missed by her devoted family, friends, and all whose lives she touched and enriched. Memorial service will be announced.       
 HENDERSON-Donna R. On September 10, 1999 in Rye, NY after a courageous battle with Lou Gehrig's disease. She was 72. Wife of Gordon Henderson, sister of Lois Johnson, mother of Barton and Paul Henderson, mother-in-law of Tina and Jane, grandmother of Stephanie, William, Emma, Olivia & Lily 
 KARAGHEUSIAN - Leila. Union Settlement's Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of Leila Karagheusian, who served as a Director from 1924 to 1995 and as an Honorary Director for the balance of her life. She was a graduate of Barnard College and Columbia University School of Social W
 ORGAIN-Martha Chastain. Born October 16, 1917 and deceased September 9, 1999, was the beloved mother of five sons, Benno C. Schmidt, Jr.; Ralph Schmidt; Thomas Schmidt, deceased; John Schmidt and William Schmidt. She was the devoted grandmother of eleven and the great-grandmother of one. Sh
 SALEMBADR-Penny. Of North Adams, MA, on September 5. She was a devoted wife and the best friend I ever had. I will miss you. She is also survived by her sister Linda Bakey who loved you. We will always remember you.       
 Ruth Roman, a screen actress who parlayed her electrically charged combination of sexiness and wholesomeness into Hollywood stardom in the late 1940's and 50's, died on Thursday at her home in Laguna Beach, Calif. She was 75. She died in her sleep, said her son, Richard Hall.       
 Ellen B. Hirschland, an art collector, teacher and a great-niece of the Baltimore collectors Claribel and Etta Cone, died on Sept. 3 while traveling near St. Moritz, Switzerland. She was 80 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said her son Edward. Mrs. Hirs
 AMITIN-Gladys (nee Epstein), 88, of Waterville, NY, died peacefully in her sleep. Born Brooklyn, formerly Bronx, Kiamisha Lake, Saddle Brook and Elmwood Park, NJ. Daughter of Joseph and Ida Goldberg Epstein. Spouse for 64 years of Ernest Amitin. Leaves behind her devoted husband, daughter M
 BEDDARD-Anita P. September 10, 1999, of Manhattan and Watch Hill, RI. Beloved wife of Michael; adored mother of Devon and Fred; cherished daughter of Edith Flaacke Pescatello and the late Michael; beloved sister of Michael, Mary, Paul, the late Edward, and devoted twin sister of Marjorie. S
 LEONARD - FEINSTEIN - Toby September 8, 1999. Mother of Sylvia Leonard Wolf. Grandmother of Stephen, Andrew, and James Wolf; mother-in-law of Burt Wolf. She joins Alvin Leonard and Bernard Feinstein and brother Kalman Asch. Contributions in her memory to the Lupus Foundation.       
 MATHEWS-Margaret S. On September 10, 1999, peacefully, at her home in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, in her 88th year. She was the loving wife for 59 years of the late William H. Mathews, M.D. Formerly of Montreal and Atlanta, she was a valiant, elegant and remarkable woman who will be sorely misse
 ROSALER-Dolores Lifelong resident of New York City and retired theatrical agent. Survived by her cousins Harry W. Steinberg, Charles Steinberg, Joan Neuwirth and their families. Services Monday, September 13, 10:45am, at ''The Riverside'' Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street (at Amsterdam 
 ROSENBLUTH-Sylvia Of North Miami, FL passed away suddenly on September 10, 1999. She was a registered nurse who graduated from Mount Sinai Hospital in NY, but has been a resident of Miami since 1960. She is survived by her devoted and loving husband, Dr. Morton, her daughter Cheri Kaufman o
 RUBIN-Rose Natalie On August 21 in Los Angeles, California. Mrs. Rubin lived in New York City and was the widow of William Morris Rubin. Mrs. Rubin graduated from Radcliffe College in 1929, traveled to the Ukraine in 1935 to visit the village of her family's origin, and worked with the Russ
 TELL-Ann, 81 years, on September 9th, peacefully at her home in New York City. Lovingly cared for by the staff of Jacob Perlow Hospice. Beloved mother of Philip Busch and his wife Darilyn. Affectionate grandmother of Kenneth. Dear sister of Marguerite Simonson and Bernice Getty. Cherished f
 REEVES-Minna Cherished memories of my beloved mother after eight years & a lifetime of her giving devotion and joy to me & to my late esteemed father on her birthday & wedding anniversary.       
 Birgit Cullberg, a pioneering experimental choreographer in Sweden who earned an international reputation through her intense dramatic ballets and vigorous social-protest pieces, died on Wednesday in Stockholm, where she lived. She was 91. Although Miss Cullberg was a disciple of th
 BEDDARD-Anita P. September 10, 1999, of Manhattan and Watch Hill, RI. Beloved wife of Michael; adored mother of Devon and Fred; cherished daughter of Edith Flaacke Pescatello and the late Michael; beloved sister of Michael, Mary, Paul, the late Edward, and devoted twin sister of Marjorie. S
 HENDERSON-Donna R. On September 10, 1999 in Rye, NY after a courageous battle with Lou Gehrig's disease. She was 72. Wife of Gordon Henderson, sister of Lois Johnson, mother of Barton and Paul Henderson, mother-in-law of Tina and Jane, grandmother of Stephanie, William, Emma, Olivia & Lily 
 KARAGHEUSIAN-Leila, a philanthropist and president of the Howard Karagheusian Commemorative Corporation, died on September 6, in her home. She was 96. For 66 years, Ms. Karagheusian was President of the foundation founded by her parents, Mihran and Zabelle Karagheusian, in 1921, in memory o
 LIPPMAN-Dorothy Dewey. Age 84, of Stuart, FL, died Thursday, September 9, 1999, at home. Survivors include her husband JeanPierre Lippmann of Stuart, four sons, one daughter, five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated Monday, September 13, 1999, 10
 MILLER-Jeanine M. (nee deCroze) died on September 11, 1999, at St. Johns Hospital. She was a resident of Smithtown and St. James for many years. She was a trustee of St. Johnland Nursing Home and Smithtown YMCA. She was a member of the Smithtown Book Club and the Cosmopolitan Club. She is s
 MURTAGH-Roberta F. Of Lake Worth, FL, died September 11, 1999, at the age of 76, with loving friends and family by her side in Gallatin, TN. She is survived by her six children Melinda, James, Robert, Richard, Kenneth, Hilary and their families. Mrs. Murtagh was born December 31, 1922, in N
 NATHAN-Emily S., September 12, 1999, in her 93rd year. Sister of the late Edgar J. Nathan Jr. and the late Rosalie Nathan Hendricks. Aunt of Edgar J. Nathan 3rd and Ruth Hendricks Schulson, Frederic S. Nathan and Sally Hendricks Weber, great-aunt and great-greataunt. Services private.      
 ROSENBLUTH-Sylvia, of North Miami, FL passed away suddenly on September 10, 1999. She was a registered nurse who graduated from Mount Sinai Hospital in NY, but has been a resident of Miami since 1960. She is survived by her devoted and loving husband, Dr. Morton, her daughter Cheri Kaufman 
 REEVES-Minna. Cherished memories of my beloved mother after eight years & a lifetime of her giving devotion and joy to me & to my late esteemed father on her birthday & wedding anniversary       
 BEDDARD-Anita P. September 10, 1999, of Manhattan and Watch Hill, RI. Beloved wife of Michael; adored mother of Devon and Fred; cherished daughter of Edith Flaacke Pescatello and the late Michael; beloved sister of Michael, Mary, Paul, the late Edward, and devoted twin sister of Marjorie. S
 FITZGIBBON-Jean (nee Carnegie), of Little Ferry, N.J., formerly of Ridgefield, N.J., died September 2 at home. She was 53 years old. Beloved wife of Julian. She was a Personnel Administrator for GMAC in New York City for 20 years. An interment service was held privately at Brookside Cemeter
 GINOR-Dr. Zvia Benyosef. Beloved wife of the late Amos. Devoted mother of Aeyal, Ron and Natti. Loving daughter of Bracha Benyosef. Sister of Yossi and Eldad. Cherished grandmother of Yonatan, Yarden and Maya. She is survived by a large extended family and many loving friends. Services on T
 HENDERSON-Donna R. On September 10, 1999 in Rye, NY after a courageous battle with Lou Gehrig's disease. She was 72. Wife of Gordon Henderson, sister of Lois Johnson, mother of Barton and Paul Henderson, mother-in-law of Tina and Jane, grandmother of Stephanie, William, Emma, Olivia & Lily 
 KARAGHEUSIAN-Leila. The Columbia University School of Social Work notes, with deep sadness, the passing of Leila Karagheusian, a 1944 graduate who was an extremely supportive friend and benefactor of the School for many years. Miss Karagheusian established scholarship funds at the School in
 KELLER-Barbara. Temple B'nai Sholom mourns the loss of our dear, longtime member. We send our condolences to the family. Services were held at Gutterman's, Rockville Centre. Dr. Barry Dov Schwartz, Rabbi Jeffrey H. Greenfield, President KELLER-Barbara. Our precious friend Bobbie per
 KENT-Ruth. On September 13, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Harvey and Donald. Loving mother-in-law of Janet and Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Rachel and Jake. Loving sister of Pearl Fenik. Aunt Ruthie will be missed by her nieces, nephews, cousins and dear friends
 MARSH-Alice F. Died peacefully at home on Sunday September 12, 1999, at the age of 95. Growing up in Yorkville, the daughter of Alice Farley, a single mother, Alice knew poverty first hand. When others left to go to work, her mother insisted she continue her education, and she did. A fighte
 MILLARD-Maria Elizabeth. The Board of Directors, the staff and faculty of the American Musical and Dramatic Academy mourn the passing of Maria Millard, a founding member and Chairman of the Board. She was a vital force, a cherished friend and an irreplaceable part of the school's history an
 NATHAN-Emily S., September 12, 1999, in her 93rd year. Sister of the late Edgar J. Nathan Jr. and the late Rosalie Nathan Hendricks. Aunt of Edgar J. Nathan 3rd and Ruth Hendricks Schulson, Frederic S. Nathan and Sally Hendricks Weber, great-aunt and great-greataunt. Services private.      
 PISTERMAN-Estelle. On September 11, 1999. She is survived by her sister Dorothy Bernfeld, her niece Bonnie Kamen, nephew Dr. Barry Bernfeld, and grandniece Elle, and grandnephew Matthew. Services Wednesday 11:00 AM at Wellwood Cemetery, L.I.       
 SHAPIRO-Charlotte. On September 9, 1999. Beloved wife of Jacob, loving sister of Pauline Fuhrman, adoring aunt of many cherished nieces and nephews and cousin to many who will have such cherished memories of her. A wonderful and charitable woman who will be missed by all. Burial, Santa Cruz
 GROESCHEL-Eileen Bosquett. Of Sea Girt died Monday, Sept. 13, 1999. She was born in Jersey City, NJ, the daughter of John and Catherine Sullivan Groeschel. She was a graduate of Fairleigh Dickinson University and received her Master's Degree from Fordham University. Mrs. Groeschel taught Ph
 KANREK-Aurelia. Of Brooklyn, NY, born in Vienna, Austria, passed away on September 13, 1999 at Beth Israel Medical Center. Beloved wife of Sidney, cherished mother of Marilyn and Victoria, devoted grandmother of David, she was always a loving and caring person, beautiful in all ways. We wil
 KELLER-Barbara. We were inspired by Bobbie's goodness and beauty and will remember her and her beloved Stanley forever. With our sincere condolences to her adored children and grandchildren, loving sister and her dear friends. We will miss you. Lilli and Jerry and family       
 McNAMARA-Mary T. On September 12, 1999. A longtime Newsweek employee, (retired) died Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx after a long illness. A native of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, PA, Ms. McNamara had been a Manhattan resident for over 20 years. She retired from Newsweek in 1991 as 
 SPALDING-Jean U., September 13, 1999. Beloved wife of the late John C. Spalding. Loving aunt of Dr. Ann Simon Koppelman and great-aunt of Erika and Sabrina Simon. A past member of the Colony Club, she was a linens buyer at Lord & Taylor and later operated a linens store on Park Avenue. She 
 STEELE-Lucie (nee Belin). Of Haverford, PA., on Tuesday, September 14, 1999. Wife of James W. Steele. Mother of Thomas F. Steele II, L. Sherrerd Steele and James W. Steele Jr. Grandmother of four and sister of three. Memorial service Friday, September 17, 3P.M. Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church
 MAHLSTEDT-Ruth H. McCarthy. Of Somers, formerly a 20 year Chappaqua resident passed away September 13, 1999. She was the widow of John Henry Mahlstedt, the devoted mother of John, Daniel and Peter. Loving mother-inlaw of Carol and Susan and the spirited, cherished grandmother of Lindsay, La
 BOWERSOCK - Christine Rose (nee Welch), Sept. 1, 1999 at the age of 33 years. Beloved wife of the late Jeffrey M. Bowersock. Dear daughter of Kate Welch (fiance Stan Kuil) and Gene Welch. Dear sister of Steve, Owen, Dean, Gena, Mike, Erin, Eamon, and Tom Welch. Granddaughter of Marie Welch 
 DUERBECK-Heidi B. The members, counsel, associates and staff of Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, P.C. note with profound sadness the death of our long-time member and friend, Heidi B. Duerbeck, who passed away on September 15, 1999. Heidi was born on July 19, 1947 in Duisberg, Germamy. S
 MEHRER-Sophia B. In her 90th year, wife of the late Eugene Mehrer; survived by Joanna M. Kapner of New York City and Robert Mehrer of North Kingston, RI; grandmother of Sharon Goel, Miriam Kapner and Emily Gore-Mehrer; mother-in-law of John Lee Kapner and Mary Gore. Funeral service at the R
 NATHANSON-Shirley Mendoza, on Sept. 15, 1999. Deeply loved wife of the late Jules Nathanson. Dear mother of Irwin ''Sandy'' (Karen) Nathanson and Howard (Sarah Anne Patz) Nathanson. Dear grandmother to Eric, Scott, Andrew, Rebecca, Brooke & Ariel Nathanson. Dear sister-in-law, aunt, cousin 
 STEINBERG-Edythe. On September 16, 1999. Beloved mother of Richard and Rona, mother-in-law of Renee and Howard, grandmother of Sarah, Jonathan, Stephanie, and Michael, and companion of Murray Savel. She lived life as a continually engaged and loving spirit, full of opinions, passions, and a
 Emily Solis Nathan, a journalist who later became a public relations executive specializing in art and museum projects in New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92. Miss Nathan was born in Manhattan. She graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's d
 Frances Knight, who ran the United States Passport Office for 22 years with efficiency and conservative zeal, denying passports and entrance visas to those she regarded as enemies of the nation and surviving efforts to remove her and even mandatory retirement at 70, died on Sept. 11 in a ho
 ANNUNZIATA-Dorothy ''Dolly'' (nee Antos). Passed away peacefully in her sleep after a long illness of emphysema on Sept. 17, 1999. Dear wife of the late Anthony Annunziata. Loving mother of Beverly Wolcson & loving motherin-law of Mickey Wolcson. Devoted sister of Lois and Timothy. Cherishe
 FRIEDMAN-Florence Zirinsky. Age 94. Died peacefully September 11, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Friedman. Wonderful mother to Bill & Lynne & the late Joan Laura. Devoted grandmother of Katie, Margo & Tom. Loving great-grandmother & aunt to many nieces & nephews. Loyal & special sist
 LEVINE-Barbara Ann, of New City, NY, age 55, on September 17, 1999, after a long and courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Larry; devoted mother of Robin, Jeffrey and Brian; cherished mother-in-law of Paul and Samantha; adored ''Baba'' of Jonah and Matthew; daughter of Este
 MEHRER-Sophia. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved longtime member, Sophia Mehrer. We will miss her loyalty to our Congregation and deep commitment to our Homeless Shelter and issues of social justice. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her daughter, Joanna Kapner, a
 O'SHAUGHNESSY-Lucy Marie O'Sullivan. On September 15, 1999. A long time elementary school teacher and loving mother and wife. Educated at the Ursuline Academy and Maxwell Training College, she and her late husband, John Quinn O'Shaughnessy agreed that their primary role was preparing their 
 SOCOLOW-Edith Gutman, 88. On September 16 in Eugene, OR, after a decade of decline under tender care. Widow of A. Walter Socolow; sister of Daniel Gutman (New York, New York) and the late Alfred Gutman (Taunton, MA); mother of Robert (Princeton, NJ), Daniel (Atlanta, GA and Chicago, IL) and
 Chan Richardson Parker, known to many in the jazz world as the last wife of Charlie (Bird) Parker, the be-bop innovator, died on Sept. 9 in a hospital in Etampes, France, southwest of Paris. She was 74. She died of cancer, said Albert Oehrle, the lawyer for her son, Baird Parker. Sh
 DOMINO-Leslie Mirin. On September 17, 1999, in Boca Raton, FL, after a valiant fight with cancer. Director of Communications and Marketing for the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County; formerly Vice President Marketing Director at Intergold. In her earlier career as an actress and s
 DUERBECK-Heidi B. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and colleague. Heidi loved life. She saw beauty in the world and goodness in people, and she inspired others to follow her example. As a friend, she brought joy into the life of everyone she touched. As a lawyer, she had that rare gi
 MUNZER-Martha Eiseman. The board of trustees and the entire Ethical Culture Fieldston School Community note with sadness the death of Martha Eiseman Munzer, nine days short of her 100th birthday. A graduate of the school in 1918, parent and grandparent of graduates, she also taught chemistr
 PORTER-Jeanne. 86, of New York, NY, died September 13th at Mt. Sinai Hospital after a valiant fight against cancer. Beloved mother and aunt, widow of Benjamin Silverberg and Joseph Porter, survived by sons Stephen B. Silverberg (Maureen) and Andrew I. Porter, and many nieces and nephews. Th
 SOCOLOW-Edith Gutman, 88. On September 16 in Eugene, OR, after a decade of decline under tender care. Widow of A. Walter Socolow; sister of Daniel Gutman (New York, New York) and the late Alfred Gutman (Taunton, MA); mother of Robert (Princeton, NJ), Daniel (Atlanta, GA and Chicago, IL) and
 TELL-Ann, 81 years, on September 9th, peacefully at her home in New York City. Lovingly cared for by the staff of Jacob Perlow Hospice. Beloved mother of Philip Busch and his wife Darilyn. Affectionate grandmother of Kenneth. Dear sister of Marguerite Simonson and Bernice Getty. Cherished f
 TENENBAUM-Jeanne. Died of ovarian cancer on September 15, 1999, she was 90. She was a teacher. All of her fifty or more working years were spent in New York public schools in the education and defense of high school children. She developed ''Project Able'' which brought together local schoo
 THORNE-Leslie Lovejoy. Leslie Lovejoy Thorne of Greenwich died on September 16, 1999, at her home. Mrs. Thorne headed Homeworks, a decorating firm. A member of the Junior League of New York and of the National Society for Colonial Dames in the State of New York. Mrs. Thorne is survived by h
 MONROE-Sylvia (Foxtow). Syl is just away since 1992. Her divine smile is carefully watching over us. Syl's glowing celestial lamp will indeed lighten up the world. Harold, Barbara, Eric, and Scott       
 M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where s
 HESS-Geraldine Lee, of Southbury, Conn. Her parents were J. Wideman Lee and Florence O'Day Lee. A graduate of Westover School in Middlebury, Conn., she had a long career as a businesswoman running a Manhattan clothing shop, the Clothes Horse. She was well known as a breeder of Pekinese dogs
 KRAM-Eve. Artist, adventurer and free spirit. Passed into the Lord Buddha's golden arms. Daughter of Leopold and Elizabeth Hochreiner. Sister of Elizabeth Y. Kelly, and Auntie Mame to niece Gretchen Kelly, who will carry on the flame of her life in further adventures around the world. She i
 MARCELLINO - Angela (nee Giambalvo). On September 18, 1999, of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Fred. Loving mother of Maria Marcellino Allen and Fred Marcellino. Also survived by her sister Josephine Giambalvo, four grand and two great - grandchildren. Reposing Fox Funeral Home, 
 MURRAY-Nancy Mann. Died peacefully at home in her sleep on September 18, 1999. She is survived by her beloved husband, Edwards B. Murray; two daughters, Bettina Pyles Nelson of NY, and Courtney Pyles Kahn of San Francisco; a grandson, Alexander Pyles Nelson of St. Andrews, Scotland; and a b
 RABINEAU-Ruth. Age 80, on September 17, 1999. Beloved wife of the Westchester architect, Eli Rabineau, devoted mother of Susan Wilmarth-Rabineau and Phyllis Rabineau, loving mother-in-law of John Alderson and loving grandmother of Isaac Alderson of Chicago, IL. Ruth was a highly respected i
 SOCOLOW-Edith Gutman, 88. On September 16 in Eugene, OR, after a decade of decline under tender care. Widow of A. Walter Socolow; sister of Daniel Gutman (New York, New York) and the late Alfred Gutman (Taunton, MA); mother of Robert (Princeton, NJ), Daniel (Atlanta, GA and Chicago, IL) and
 MARKS-Ruth. 1 year today. Her song has ended, but the melody lingers on. We miss and love you. Joyce, Jason, Greg and Jordana       
 BERNSTEIN-Esther R. Three generations of nieces and nephews mourn the loss of their cherished and beloved Aunt Esther. She was an inspirarion to all her music students as well as her family. Aunt Esther brought joy into our lives. To know her was a great blessing.       
 FIELD-Dorothy M. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Dorothy M. Field. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, Pre
 GALEN-Natalie Firestone. On September 19, 1999 at age 87. Loving mother of Judy Mitchell, Vicki Devine and grandmother of Galen Devine, all of California. Longtime companion to A. Richard Cohen. Interment private in Rochester, NY. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Jewish Founda
 MACALUSO-Margaret ''Peggy'' Mary (nee Callcut) on September 19, 1999 of Douglas Manor, NY. Beloved wife of Vincent. Loving mother of Elizabeth and Tom Carty, Vincent and Lauren Macaluso, Jennifer and Amy. Devoted grandmother of Abigail Rose. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel 1570 No
 MURRAY-Nancy Mann. Died peacefully at home in her sleep on September 18, 1999. She is survived by her beloved husband, Edwards B. Murray; two daughters, Bettina Pyles Nelson of NY, and Courtney Pyles Kahn of San Francisco; a grandson, Alexander Pyles Nelson of St. Andrews, Scotland; and a b
 RABINEAU-Ruth. At age 80, on September 17th, 1999. Beloved wife of the Westchester architect, Eli Rabineau, devoted mother of Susan Wilmarth-Rabineau and Phyllis Rabineau, loving motherin-law of John Alderson and loving grandmother of Isaac Alderson of Chicago, Illinois. Ruth was a highly r
 REDER-Lois C. Of Flushing, N.Y. On Saturday, September 18, 1999 at the age of 58. Beloved daughter of the late Andrew and Charlotte Reder. Dear sister of Joan Koechler and Anne Hoppe. Loving aunt of Alexis and Andrew. A teacher in special education, Lois was with the Dominican Sisters of Am
 SCHARTENBERG-Eva Charlotte (nee Scheyer). On Tuesday, September 14. Wife of the late Kurt Schartenberg. We are greatly saddened by the loss of our beloved aunt. She will be deeply missed. Drs. Edith and Bob Rosenberger Daniel Chasman Deborah Chasman       
 Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany. She was 67. The cause was leukemia, aides to Mr. Gorbac
 Tahia Carioca, the Egyptian belly dancer often called the Marilyn Monroe of the Arab world, died of a heart attack in a Cairo hospital on Monday.  She was 79. Miss Carioca's parents were mortified when as a teen-ager she took her beauty and talent to a Cairo nightclub to dance for s
 CALLAHAN-Helene E. On September 21, 1999. Beloved daughter of the late Patrick and Delia Callahan. Loving sister of Sister Miriam Helen Callahan S.C. and the late Michael Callahan. Friends may call Thursday and Friday, 2-5 and 7-9PM, at Frank E. Campbell ''The Funeral Chapel'', 1076 Madison
 EDELMAN-Judith F. (nee Fidel), of Fort Lee, NJ on September 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Bertram L. Edelman. Loving mother of Marsha E. Malberg and her husband Edward, and Susan Holly Edelman. Cherished grandmother of Jessica Malberg and her husband Julian Dobson, and Rebecca Malberg.
 GREENBAUM-Estelle. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Estelle Greenbaum. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Abraham, and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Martin Kay       
 HOUBEN-Sidney and Sylvia. Inseparable in life & so in eternity, both after long illnesses. Heformer Director of the New York State Bureau of Disabilty Determinatons-on September 18, and she on September 19. Beloved by their extended families and community. Survived by his devoted sisters, D
 KATZENSTEIN-Bobbie. Died on September 20, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Sy, adored mother of Barbara and Marjorie. Mother-in-law of Doug, devoted grandmother of Dana and Michael. She will be greatly missed by Phyllis, Larry, Joanne, Susan, and Eric. Contributions in Bo
 PORTER - Elizabeth Berrien Krauss Dyer. After a prolonged illness, passed away quietly in the presence of her family at Black Rock Farm, Watertown, Connecticut, where she had resided at the home of her son, Richard H. Dyer Jr., M.D., and her grandchildren Sean and Amy Dawson, and Richard H.
 RICE-Adrianne Kathryn ''Puff''. Of New York and Morristown, NJ. Age 61, on September 20th, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Marc Nicholas Rice and loving companion of Joseph F. Mansfield, Sr. Survived by her brother Francis X. Rice, Florham Park, NJ, fifteen nieces and nephews and tw
 ROSENZWEIG-Sylvia. August 30,1999. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, devoted wife of the late Sidney, cherished mother of Stephanie, and Naomi, sonsin-law Bernie and Frank, and adoring grandmother of Bruce, Gary, Mindy, David, and Jill. We will remember her with love forever.  
 TIRSCHWELL-Barbara Weiss. At her family home in Rockville Centre, New York, September 21, 1999, at the age of 66. Survived by her husband, Perry, her children, Mark, David, Eric, Cathy, Carolyn and Carmel, her sister Marsha, her grandchildren Jessica, Max and Ellie and her mother-in-law Syl
 TROY-Florence W. On September 22, 1999. Devoted wife of the late William A. Troy. Loving mother of Aileen and Alan Janover. Proud Ranny of Tom and Sarah, Jim and Marcy. Adored great Ranny of William, Kate and Leah. Friends may call on Thursday 3-5 and 7-9 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 Mignon Garland, a dancer and teacher who played a major role in keeping Isadora Duncan's legacy alive in the United States, died on Sept. 15 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 91. After Duncan's death in 1927, her repertory and ideas as a pioneer of modern dance were passed di
 CALLAHAN-Helene E. On September 21, 1999. Beloved daughter of the late Patrick and Delia Callahan. Loving sister of Sister Miriam Helen Callahan S.C. and the late Michael Callahan. Friends may call Thursday and Friday, 2-5 and 7-9PM, at Frank E. Campbell ''The Funeral Chapel'', 1076 Madison
 KATZENSTEIN-Beulah. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted member, Beulah Katzenstein. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her daughters, Barbara and Marjorie, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President.       
 PERSE-Ruth. On September 21, 1999. Beloved wife of Benjamin. Loving mother of Larry & Harold. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. Service Friday, 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. Visiting hours Thursday, 7-9PM. Interment Mt. Eden Cemetery, Valhalla, NY.   
 ROSSINSKY-Dolly. The League of the Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation mourn with profound sorrow the loss of our most dedicated gift shop manager, Dolly. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. May her memory be a blessing.       
 TELL-Ann, 81 years, on September 9th, peacefully at her home in New York City. Lovingly cared for by the staff of Jacob Perlow Hospice. Beloved mother of Philip Busch and his wife Darilyn. Affectionate grandmother of Kenneth. Dear sister of Marguerite Simonson and Bernice Getty. Cherished f
 VILLAMANA-Joan Spencer of Bronxville and Patterson, NY died at home on Tuesday, September 21, 1999. Mrs. Villamana is survived by her husband, Tom; her brother, Don Harris; her daughters, Luci Krusz, Kim Spencer and Molly Marshall; and four grandchildren, Robbie, Ronnie, Emily and Troy. A m
 YAGER-Eleanor. Of New York City on September 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Ralph Yager and cherished mother of Roger and Susan. Sister of Howard Golden and loving mother-in-law of Bob Berkowitz. Her charity, insight and intelligence will be greatly missed by all who knew her. A gravesi
 CITRON KESNER-Sara. The children, family and friends of Sara Citron Kesner mourn deeply her passing on September 21st. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, she is survived by her children, Harvey Citron and Rebecca Nunberg and by her grandchildren, Samuel, Raphael and Isabelle Nunberg.    
 FENTON-Elaine Surut Herman, on September 24, 1999 at age 77. Mother of Tom Herman and Kerry Herman. Grandmother of Dyanna Elizabeth Hallick. Motherin-law of Marilyn Lytle Herman and Ned Hallick. Wife of Robert E. Herman, who died in 1966. Wife of David Fenton from 1974 until he died in 1985
 JAFFIN-Molla. On September 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Abraham (Al). Dear sister of the late Nettie Karp. Devoted cousin and friend. Her warmth and generosity will be greatly missed. Service Sunday 10:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SOSOWER-Rita. The Board of Govenors and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and member, Rita Sosower. We extend our condolences to her husband and family. Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary       
 VILLAMANA-Joan Spencer of Bronxville and Patterson, NY died at home on Tuesday, September 21, 1999. Mrs. Villamana is survived by her husband, Tom; her brother, Don Harris; her daughters, Luci Krusz, Kim Spencer and Molly Marshall; and four grandchildren, Robbie, Ronnie, Emily and Troy. A m
 WINKLER-Ilse. Sisterhood of Congregation Habonim mourns the passing of our devoted member and past President. We wish to express our sympathy and condolences to the family. We will always fondly remember her.       
 Sigrid de Lima, a writer whose early works won praise but who withdrew from public life in midcareer, died on Sunday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 77 and lived in Valley Cottage, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Alison de Lima Greene. Ms. de Lima burst 
 ADELMAN-Helen S. On Saturday, September 25. Beloved wife of the late Allan J. Adelman. Dearly beloved sister of Sylvia L. Wein and Katherine Brod Lehrer and Milton Lehrer. Grandmother of Derek, Christopher and Simon, and greatgrandmother of Alice and Daniel. A very special lady, much belove
 ERICKSON-Diane. On September 24, 1999. Wife of Michael Charles. Beloved mother of Helena Charles. Loving daughter of Mary Helfer. Dear sister of John and Thomas Erickson, Christina Reid, Jane Ashmore, the late Richard and Charles Erickson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 ETTENBERG-Rose. On September 25, age 89. Loving mother of Ann Dermansky and Frank; mother in-law of Ira and Silvia Stenitzer; grandmother of Michael, Julie, Marcy. Contributions in her memory may be made to Rosenberg Fund for Children, 1145 Main Street, Springfield, MA 01103.       
 JAFFIN-Molla. On September 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Abraham (Al). Dear sister of the late Nettie Karp. Devoted cousin and friend. Her warmth and generosity will be greatly missed. Service Sunday 10:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 LEVY-Ruth Gerda, 78 of Westwood, NJ., formerly of Rio Rancho, NM, passed away on September 24, 1999 in Ridgewood, NJ. Born May 22, 1921 in Germany. Beloved mother of Howard G. Sachs of Hershey, PA and Marvin C. Sachs of Westwood, NJ. Mother-in-law of Corinne and Martha, adored grandmother o
 MANDEL-Francine. The 92nd Street Y community mourns the passing of Fran Mandel, a dedicated and loving member of our staff for over 10 years. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband and soul mate, Rob, her parents, sisters and entire family. May her courage and strength continue to in
 PLAXEN-Norma, June 20, 1912September 20, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, she attended Far Rockaway High School. During WW2 she served with the American Red Cross in Germany and the Philippines. She established Diner's Card and American Express Card dining programs, was associated with the New York 
 ROSTEN-Freda. September 24, at 96 years. Beloved wife of the late Herman Rosten. Loving mother of Martha and Bernard, and motherin-law of Linda. Grandmother of Dr. Sloan Rosten and Genna Margolis. Great-grandmother of Jessica and Samantha. She will be missed by all of us.       
 SANDBERG-Vilma. A New York City probation officer and resident of Brooklyn. Died on September 22 at the age of 67. She is survived by her children Mark and Michele, daughter-in-law Geri and cherished grandchildren Matthew and Emily.       
 STEINBERG - Charlotte (Silber stein). On September 24, 1999, in her 99th year. Formerly of Mount Vernon, NY, and Southbury, CT. Survived by devoted daughters Carol Kleban and Judith Goldberg Alcabes; sons-in-law Edward Kleban and Isaac Alcabes; grandchildren Susan Pardo, Robert and Shira Go
 VILLAMANA-Joan Spencer of Bronxville and Patterson, NY died at home on Tuesday, September 21, 1999. Mrs. Villamana is survived by her husband, Tom; her brother, Don Harris; her daughters, Luci Krusz, Kim Spencer and Molly Marshall; and four grandchildren, Robbie, Ronnie, Emily and Troy. A m
 KELL-Yetta The great lady. September 8 marked 13 years that she left us. Her wisdom and love is missed by her children and all who knew her.       
 Judith Campbell Exner, who asserted in a 1988 interview in People magazine that she had been having an affair with John F. Kennedy when he was elected President, died late Friday at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles. She was 65 and lived in Or
 BAYER-Adelle. Died September 25, 1999. She survived her husband, Max, and leaves her sons, Ronald and Jerome, her daughters-in-law, Jane Alexander and Liz Bayer, her grandson, Max Edward, and her step-grandchildren, Alessandra and Julian Stapleford. As a young woman, she supported the strug
 JACOBS-Halley, age 13. Beloved daughter of Sunny Redmond, Jim Jacobs and stepmother Kathleen. Adoring sister of Wesley. Loving granddaughter of Jean Redmond and Jean and Herman Martin. Three months after her Bat Mitzvah, she was struck down by an auto. After many months of a valiant struggl
 KESSEL-Marie Adler. Age 83, of NYC, on September 25, 1999. Cherished wife of the late Lawrence. Adoring mother of Laura K. Shlomm. Loving and devoted grandmother of Alexander and Daniel Shlomm. She was a member of the Board of Trustees of Audrey Cohen College and the founder of The PIBLY Fo
 LONDON-Frances A., originally of Butler, PA, on September 25, 1999, at the age of 86. Beloved wife of the late Robert London. Loving mother of the late Roy London. Devoted teacher of many children at J.H.S. 54 in Manhattan until her retirement. Sister of the late Abe Abes. She had a great s
 MEZAN-Edith Rochlin. A highly regarded pianist and teacher, graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and the Teachers College of Columbia University, died Saturday, September 25, in Stamford, CT, where she was born February 21, 1909, and lived her whole life. Her husband, Samuel, a promine
 REICH-Kitty Hirshleifer. Age 91. Beloved wife for 72 years to Louis. Devoted mother to Honey and Norman Mann, Jay and June Reich. Darling nana of Lori & Mitchell Gluck, Alan & Marcia Mann, Richard & Geri Mann, Jill & Gregg Lorberbaum, Ronni Reich and Sharon Reich. Loving ''Big Nana'' to Jak
 STANGER LIPPMAN-Sylvia. Lifelong resident of NYC. Beloved wife of the late A. Allen Stanger and the late Ralph Lippman. Cherished mother of Keith J. Stanger and the late Vanessa Stanger Lynn. Devoted mother-in-law of Marilyn K. Stanger and Larry Lynn. Dear sister of Hellen Zeller. Adored st
 TOLKAN-Charlotte S., in her 96th year. Beloved wife of over 50 years of the late Joseph D. Tolkan. Loving mother of Norman N. Tolkan and Helen T. Greenwald and mother-in-law of Leonard A. Greenwald and the late Constance H. Tolkan. Cherished grandmother of Peter N. Greenwald, Jane Greenwald
 Diane Erickson, a model who was on the cover of Self magazine's first issue in 1979 and who later became a fashion photographer, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. She was 43. She died from complications from breast cancer, said Meg D'Incecco, the 
 She had not even known exactly what the word ''philanthropy'' meant, but the elderly washerwoman who gave away practically every dollar she ever made to endow a scholarship fund for poor students in Mississippi would become a symbol of selfless giving. Oseola McCarty, who gave away 
 CHAMBERLAIN-Susan Gray, in Wayland, MA, September 26, 1999, of New London, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Wife of the late Thomas H. Chamberlain. Mother of Lisa C. and her husband Daniel Schimmel of Wayland, MA; Cynthia C. and her husband Ernest Wright of Watertown, MA; Stephanie Scott Chamb
 CONNOLLY-Thomas. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Thomas' bereaved family. Christine and her sister Irene       
 FREDERICK-Margaret Collins, 77, died Sunday in Statesboro, GA. She is survived by one daughter, Dr. Mary Margaret Frederick, New York City, NY; one stepdaughter, Ms. Patricia Ruth Frederick, NY, NY; one son, William Lloyd Douglas ''Rick'' Frederick, Atlanta; one granddaughter, Jennifer Alys
 KESSEL-Marie Adler. Age eightythree of NYC, on September 25, 1999. Esteemed member of the Board of Trustees of Audrey Cohen College for over ten years. Her dedication and generosity to the College was exemplary. The Board acknowledges her outstanding achievements as a philanthropist, busine
 KOVAK-Ellen Beth. Of Wilton, CT. Beloved wife of Stan. Loving mother of Janet. Died at home on Saturday, September 25, 1999. A memorial service will be held at Saint Thomas Church, One W. 53 St, N.Y., Wednesday, September 29th, 2PM. In lieu of flowers, it is requested that donations be made
 LAWALL-Richard W. The officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of The Hamptons, mourn the passing of Richard W. Lawall, beloved father of our esteemed member, Dr. Sharyn Lawall. We extend condolences to Sharon and her family Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Deb
 LIPPMAN-Sylvia Lux Stanger. Beloved sister of Helen Lux Zeller, dearest mother of Keith J. Stanger and the late Vanessa Stanger Lynn, devoted mother-in-law of Marilyn K. Stanger and Lawrence Lynn, beloved stepmother of Dr. Jay Lippman, Dr. Leonard Lippman, Judge Jonathan Lippman, David Lipp
 PAGE-Roberta R. Daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Malcome D. Raworth of Providence, R.I. She lived in Lawrence, Long Island prior to moving to Hilton Head Island, SC in 1987. Survived by her husband, Shelby H. Page of Hilton Head Island; a son Frank C. Page, daughter-in-law Ingred W. Page and grandson
 RICHARDS-Pamela Spence Smit. On September 20, 1999, at the age of 58, adored wife of J.W. Smit, beloved mother of Marijke and Guy, stepmother of Tijn and Michiel, sister of Antonia Girard. Pamela graduated from the Brearley School, Radcliffe College and received her doctorate from Columbia 
 STANGER LIPPMAN-Sylvia. Lifelong resident of NYC. Beloved wife of the late A. Allen Stanger and the late Ralph Lippman. Cherished mother of Keith J. Stanger and the late Vanessa Stanger Lynn. Devoted mother-in-law of Marilyn K. Stanger and Larry Lynn. Dear sister of Hellen Zeller. Adored st
 STOLL-Mae, on September 26. Beloved wife of the late J. Leonard Stoll, mother of the late cherished Ann Simon. Survived by her devoted daughter Ellen (Herbert) Pearlman, loving sister Rose Gallay, caring brother Harold Kester. Predeceased by brother Murray Kester. Grandmother of Elisa (Matt
 TARLOW-Ricki. September 26, 1999. Devoted mother of Bill Schacter of Newton, Massachusetts, Peg Ryan of Plainville, Massachusetts, and Wendy Chava Schacter of West Fork, Arkansas. Loving grandmother of four grandchildren. She was a copy editor for Time, Inc. for more than 20 years. Memorial
 TIERNEY-Alice ''Mickey'' (nee Herchenroder) of Surfside Beach, S.C., passed away September 25, 1999. Formerly from New York and was retired from the Surety Association of America. Survived by brother Francis Herchenroder, sisters Anne Milligan & Fleurette Topalow. Predeceased by her husband
 TISHMAN-Ruth W. On September 26, 1999, at age ninety-four. Her children, family and friends mourn deeply her passing. Widow of Paul, beloved mother and grandmother, she is survived by two daughters Jean Harrison of CT and Ellen Rosenthal of Westchester, six grandchildren and ten great grand
 WEST-Rose. The Board of Directors of Surprise Lake Camp expresses its sorrow at the passing of Rose West. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Samuel West, our Board Member of nearly 30 years, as well as her daughters, Joan Versalie and Bonnie Minsky, and her many grandchildren an
 Anneli Cahn Lax, a professor and editor who was a leader in the publishing of mathematical literature, died on Friday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. She was 77. Professor Lax had pancreatic cancer, said her husband, Peter Lax. She retired in 1992 from New York U
 Marion Zimmer Bradley, a science fiction writer and the creator of the Darkover series of fantasies, died on Saturday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 69 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was a heart attack, said Elisabeth Waters, her cousin and secretary.    
 ADAMS-Romaine Bristow. Of Austin, Texas, New York City, and Newport, R.I. and wife of Warren S. Adams II. Died peacefully in NYC on September 25, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Louise Wheeler Grosvenor. Adored grandmother of Charles Burnett Grosvenor Jr. of Austin, Texas, Leslie Grosve
 KESSEL-Marie Adler. The staff of the PIBLY Residential Program and the Board of the PIPLY Fund express profound sadness at the loss of their founder and guiding spirit. A vibrant woman of tremendous energy and creativity, she worked tirelessly on behalf of the mentally ill. The memory of he
 SILVERMAN-Dorothea M. (nee Rosen) On September 26, 1999, of NYC. Director and Founder of A.R.E.A. (Artists Representing Environmental Arts), a not for profit organization. She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Isadore Silverman, two daughters, Carole Cole and Ellen Tannenbaum, and son
 ADAMS-Romaine Bristow. Of Austin, Texas, New York City, and Newport, R.I. and wife of Warren S. Adams II. Died peacefully in NYC on September 25, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Louise Wheeler Grosvenor. Adored grandmother of Charles Burnett Grosvenor Jr. of Austin, Texas, Leslie Grosve
 HOLZER-Ann. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 JACOBSON STOLPER-Shirley. Our aunt, a woman of intelligence and wit. She leaves a legacy of unconditional commitment to family and friends. Our thoughts are with her sons Harlan, Andrew, and Stuart, and her loving sister and brother-in-law, Ruth and Seymour Raubvogel. Alissa and Jeffrey Ham
 STEINBERG-Sylvia. Of Tamarac, Florida, passed away on Thursday, September 23, 1999. She leaves her husband of sixty-two years, Dr. Philip M. Steinberg, sons Dr. Alfred D. Steinberg and Richard M. Steinberg, grandchildren Dr. Bonnie Jean SteinbergJennis, Robert T. Steinberg, Dr. Ellen Beth S
