 BRUSTMAN-Marianne Delaney. Of Stuart, FL, and Mamaroneck, NY, and former longtime resident of Larchmont, NY, died Saturday, October 30. She was 61. She is survived by her husband Leonard W. Brustman Jr. and by her daughters Suzanne Montanaro (Dr. Joseph) of Wyndham, NH, Joanne Brustman of N
 ELAN-Hilia D. Age 85, of Floral Park, died October 29. BA University of Michigan, MA Columbia Teachers College. Talented painter, musician, gardener, family historian. She loved to argue politics. We will miss you always. Memorial Sunday at 3 PM, at home. Your Daughters Susan and Nancy Gran
 FEDER-Paula (Pepe). On October 28, 1999 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Jay and Ellen Feder. Cherished grandmother of Robert, Michele, Maddy, Noelle, Harold, David & Stephane. Adoring great-grandmother of Stephen, Aaron, Jackson and Jessica. Private services and 
 LEIHER-Florence McCaffrey. On October 28, 1999, in New York City. She was a 1927 graduate of New Paltz SUNY University. Retired teacher, Our Lady of Assumption School, Bronx, NY. Active member for many years with the Ladies of Charity. Beloved wife of the late Frank M., who was the former R
 MUTTERPERL-Muriel. On October 31, 1999, after a long illness at the age of 79. Beloved wife of the late Martin; devoted mother of Donald and Nancy Mutterperl, and William and Nancy Mutterperl; adoring grandmother of John and Heather, Jeffrey, Matthew and Emily, and Adam; great-grandmother o
 SIEGEL-Lois. Beloved daughter of the late Julius and Beth; devoted sister of Charles. Services 9:45 AM Tuesday, ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. SIEGEL-Lois. It is with great sadness that we join with family and friends to mourn the passing of our long time Board member
 WAGNER-Eleanor (nee Langer). Devoted mother, grandmother, wife. Died October 31, 1999. Services Temple B'nai Israel of Elmont, Elmont NY, 2 PM Monday, November 1. We will miss her.       
 ABERNETHY-Mary. On October 30 at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Patricia Suppa, Michael Abernethy, Maureen Gerhard and Eileen Connolly. Also survived by nineteen grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. A graduate of St. John's University with a Masters in Ed
 CALLAWAY-Dorothy Harding. Of Southbury, CT, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, LI. Beloved wife of the late Samuel R. Callaway, died peacefully on Sunday, October 31, 1999 at Danbury Hospital, Danbury, CT. She was 84 years old. She is survived by two daughters, Joan C. Pratt of Brentwood, NH, 
 FISHER-Mildred. Suddenly at home on October 31, 1999. Loving and cherished wife of Arthur Irving. Beloved mother of Faith Einhorn (Robert), Arlene Davis (Charles), and Fred Fisher (Patti). Adored grandmother to Hayley, Heather, Sam, Eric, Ian, Mara, Glenn, and Gregg. Dear sister of Morton a
 FREEDMAN-Maxine P. Dearest sister of Phyllis F. and Mike Seelig and the late Alan J. and Doris C. Freedman. A most committed and loving aunt to Kenny, Patty, Karen, Nina and Susie. A devoted great-aunt of ten. She willingly gave of her time to others with a clear mind and an open heart. Ser
 HECHT-Dorothea Ackermann. Died suddenly on October 30 in New York City at age 85. Widow of the late George A. Hecht. She was a volunteer at the Lincoln Center Library for the Performing Arts and the Museum of the City of New York Theater Collection and she was formerly staff assistant at Fo
 MEAD-Henrietta Mills. Cherished wife of Robert H. Mead. Beloved mother of Robert, Slade & Winter; grandmother of six small children, and sister of Edward and Slade Mills. A graduate of Westover School and Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College Class of 1976; member of the faculty of Salisbury S
 MUTTERPERL - Muriel. Her many friends and business associates offer deep and sincere condolences to the family on the passing of a wonderful person. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Tucker Anthony, Inc. MUTTERPERL-Muriel. You have been a very special part of our lives 
 TEICH-Elizabeth June Ferguson. Of West End, NJ, and Lake Worth, FL. Died on October 31, 1999. June was Britain's gift to America. She was an elegant lady with a vibrant personality and sense of humor (British). She was strong, warm, and a very good friend. June had excellent classic taste i
 CHAPLIN-Virginia T. The National Board of the YWCA of the U.S.A. is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of Virginia T. Chaplin, National Board member from 1970 to 1982 and one of its Vice Presidents, a member of the World Service Council from 1982 to the present and President of the YWCA of 
 COUGHLIN-Elizabeth (Aunt Liz) On November 1, 1999. Loving sister of Francis, the late Daniel and Augustine (Uncle Brother). Loving, helpful and caring aunt to ten nieces and nephews and 21 grand nieces and grand nephews. Former Chief Archivist of American Mental Climax, past President of So
 FOSTERIS-Maria (nee Dinescu). October 31, 1999. Mother and wife. She kept her family together for 70 years. Burial Thursday in Nassau Knolls Cemetery.       
 FREEDMAN-Maxine. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our Honorary Trustee, supporter of Israel and devoted Jew. Condolences to her loving family.       
 LIEBLICH-Manette. The Board of Governors and members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and longtime member, Manette Lieblich. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest condolences to her family. Robert Fagenson, Pres. Jane Guadagno, Secy.      
 LIEBLICH-Mannette. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of The Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their long time friend and member, Mrs. Mannette Lieblich. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary       
 POMERANTZ-Gerta. On November 2, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Freddy Pomerantz. Dear mother of Leslie Fay Pomerantz and John and Laura Pomerantz. Adored grandmother of Andrew and Lynn Gross, Frederick (Ricky) Coff, Andrea and Matthew Lustig, Susan and Kevin Davis, and Marnie. Great-grandmo
 WAGNER-Eleanor. The Administration and Board of Directors of the Rodeph Sholom School mourns the loss of Eleanor Wagner, beloved mother of Board member Claudia Wagner. May her blessed memory be a consolation to Claudia, her husband, Don Lebowitz, and to their children, Zev and Ezra. David N
 ASEDO-Adina Stitzel, at 93, of Manhattan, died on Wednesday, November 3, 1999, at home. Born in London, England, in 1906, she came to the U.S. in 1912. She lived on the Lower East Side where she taught Hebrew before sailing to Palestine. In Jerusalem she met and married Dr. Jeroham Asedo, w
 CHATFIELD TAYLOR-Marochka age 93 died of a stroke following a fall, in Mystic, CT, November 2, 1999, at Pendleton Rehabilitation Center. She was born in St. Petersburg, Russia July 24, 1906. Her father was the well-known Russian artist, Boris Anisfeld, who designed sets and costumes for the
 COUTSOUVELIS-Ann M. (nee Duffy). On November 3, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George. Survived by Eleni Kalergis; her sister, Patricia Hurley, and her brother, Edward Duffy. Also survived by many loving nieces and nephews. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Avenue (at 20
 LEVINE-Lillian. The family of the late Lillian Haft Shulman Levine mourn the loss of a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother and sister. Her vitality, generosity, humor and love will be deeply missed. We will cherish her memory always. Services will be private.       
 Daisy Bates, a civil rights leader who in 1957 led the fight to admit nine black students to Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., died yesterday at a hospital there. She was 84. In the integration struggle, rocks were thrown through her window, a burning cross was placed on her
 BLITZER-Florence Kaiden. On November 3, 1999. Beloved wife of Arnold. Loving aunt, great aunt and dear sister-in-law. Florence was a master reading teacher for the New York City Board of Education and for Hunter College. She will be profoundly missed. Service Friday, 10AM at the ''Riverside
 COHEN-Marion. November 4, 1999. Beloved wife of Nathaniel. Loving mother of Hank and Maya. Adoring grandmother of Alex and Jenny. She will be deeply missed.       
 ERIC-Francoise. (Mrs. Seward). On November 4, 1999, peacefully at home. Survived by her nephew, Pierre de Moreuil, and her great niece, Claire de Moreuil. Private burial in Remsenburg. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, NYC, Friday, November 12, 1999 at 11AM. 
 FRIEDLAND-Dr. Beatrice L. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a longtime friend whose dedicated service to our Stern College for Women spanned five decades. As its first professor of biology; chair, biology department for 23 years; and, more recently, m
 LEVINE-Lillian. The family of the late Lillian Haft Shulman Levine mourn the loss of a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother and sister. Her vitality, generosity, humor and love will be deeply missed. We will cherish her memory always. Services will be private.       
 POMERANTZ-Gerta. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Gerta Pomerantz and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, Pres. Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 REITER-Hilde. Manhattan Guild sadly records the passing of its esteemed member Hilde Reiter. Her devotion to the Guild and Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Israel was boundless. Deepest sympathies are extended to her family.       
 SULLIVAN-May M. Age 96. Died November 3rd, 1999. Much loved retired New York City school teacher. Survived by her niece Jule A. Hale. Grandnieces Helen Marino, Virginia Dowicz, Claire Hernandez, Catherine Dougall and Elizabeth Hale-Shames, grandnephews Joseph, Robert, Matthew Ross and Dr. J
 Mary C. Weitzman, who was a chorus girl as a teenager, a college freshman at 35, later a professor and finally a respected medical researcher, died on Saturday at a Manhattan hospital. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. As a researcher at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in t
 DVOREN-Gilda. Died November 4th, 1999 at age 86. Exceptionally intelligent, articulate, funny, warm, and loving, she was a wonderful aunt, as was her beloved husband, Robert (Ruby) Dvoren, a wonderful uncle. Jon Tanner and Shari Stack       
 HART-Jane S. November 1, 1999, age 86. Long time resident of New Rochelle, NY. Graduate of Juilliard School and Teachers College. Musician, teacher and composer. Predeceased by her husband Leslie A. Hart. Survived by children Sara and Richard Olson, David Hart and Diane Bentley, grandchildr
 KATZ-Alice. West End Temple, Neponsit, NY, mourns the death of a very dear member and extends to her husband Louis and family deepest sympathy.       
 REMCH-Mary D. Of Ridgewood, Queens, formerly of Bushwick, Brooklyn, New York. Survived by her loving children Peter, Patricia, Geraldine Shea, Henry, and Mary Youkon; adoring grandchildren Kristen, Michael, Molly, Johnathan, Deshon and Nicholas; loving sister Anne Ruoff; loving in-laws Flor
 Rotner-Sylvia. On November 4, 1999. Beloved wife of Jack for 55 years. Cherished mother of Kenneth and the late Ronald, and dear mother-in-law to Carol. Loving sister of the late Dr. Herbert Harris. Adoring grandmother of Annie. She will be deeply missed by family and friends. In lieu of fl
 Charlotte Perriand, the French designer who created furniture with Le Corbusier in the 1920's and 30's and was rediscovered as a modernist legend in her own right in the 1980's and 90's, died at her home in Paris on Oct. 27. She was 96. Through a productive career spanning eight dec
 Charlotte Perriand, the French designer who created furniture with Le Corbusier in the 1920's and 30's and was rediscovered as a modernist legend in her own right in the 1980's and 90's, died at her home in Paris on Oct. 27. She was 96. Through a productive career spanning eight dec
 APAT-Adeline. On November 5, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Klara and Larry. Adoring grandmother of Sharon and Annette, Roger and Liana, and Lisa. Great-grandmother of Rachel, Robby, Ariel, Cory, Zachary and Joshua. Services Tuesday, 11:15am at ''The Riverside'', 76
 BERMAN-Sylvia. On behalf of the entire NYU Medical Center community, we note with great sorrow the passing of Sylvia Berman, who served as an Associate Trustee of the NYU Medical Center Board of Trustees since 1969. In 1998, she became an Associate Trustee of the Board of Trustees of Mount 
 CRAMER-Lilo, age 77, born in Amsterdam, Holland, died on October 22, 1999 in Boston, MA. Daughter of Ernst and Grete Laqueur, and sister of Gerda, Peter, Hein and Renata; she married Hans Cramer, moved to NY in 1947 and raised three children. She was a leader in the promotion of natural chi
 D'AMICO-Grace M. Executive secretary for the New York Times. Services were held for Grace M. D'Amico, 74, of Pompton Plains, New Jersey. Grace died on Monday, October 25, 1999, in Biloxi, Mississippi. Born and lived in New York City for 65 years, she lived in Pompton Plains, New Jersey, sin
 DVOREN-Gilda. Died November 4th, 1999 at age 86. Exceptionally intelligent, articulate, funny, warm, and loving, she was a wonderful aunt, as was her beloved husband, Robert (Ruby) Dvoren, a wonderful uncle. Jon Tanner and Shari Stack       
 ERIC-Francoise. (Mrs. Seward). On November 4, 1999, peacefully at home. Survived by her nephew, Pierre de Moreuil, and her great niece, Claire de Moreuil. Private burial in Remsenburg. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, NYC, Friday, November 12, 1999 at 11AM. 
 MURRAY-Ruth. 89, formerly of Parkchester, Bronx, NY, died October 29. She is survived by her brother Morris Kronenfeld, nieces and nephews. She was a secretary at the Bronx Music School, and later Tishman Realty and Construction Company for many years. For information ''Gutterman-Musicant,'
 Rotner-Sylvia. On November 4, 1999. Beloved wife of Jack for 55 years. Cherished mother of Kenneth and the late Ronald, and dear mother-in-law to Carol. Loving sister of the late Dr. Herbert Harris. Adoring grandmother of Annie. She will be deeply missed by family and friends. In lieu of fl
 SINGER-Frances K. On November 5, 1999. Cherished wife of Dr. Benjamin A. Singer. Loving mother of Pamela Singer and son-inlaw Robert M. Unger. Adoring grandmother of Samuel. Dearest sister of Sarah Fisher, Martha Zelman and the late Roberta Feldman. Devoted friend and teacher. Adored aunt a
 THOMAS-Madeleine A. (Bobbie). On November 4, 1999. Beloved wife of William H. Thomas (Bill). Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Ave. at 66th St, Friday, Nov. 12th, 10 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 DAVIS-Dr. Hazel Grubbs. A memorial service for Dr. Hazel Grubbs Davis will be held on Saturday, November 13, at 2 PM, National Cemetery Chapel, Farmingdale, NY. Officiating at the Service will be Rev. Maggie Morrison. She was promoted to glory at the age of 85. She will long be remembered a
 KELSEY-Frances Voorhees. Age 83, died peacefully on November 6, 1999, at her residence in Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ, as a result of a stroke which occurred on October 22. At her bedside were her loving husband of 58 years, H. Burr Kelsey, and her three devoted and loving children, Patric
 SINGER-Frances K.. On November 5, 1999. Cherished wife of Dr. Benjamin A. Singer. Loving mother of Pamela Singer and son-inlaw Robert M. Unger. Adoring grandmother of Samuel. Dearest sister of Sarah Fisher, Martha Zelman and the late Roberta Feldman. Devoted friend and teacher. Adored aunt 
 WAGENBERG-Gloria. On November 6, 1999. Beloved wife of Jerry. Adoring mother of Mitchell, Nina, Eric, Risa and Caryn. Loving grandmother of Jordanah, Zachary, Jacob, Scout, Chase, Lana, Maxson and Cole. Greatest aunt of Robin and Donna. She was our gift and we loved her deeply. We will miss
 WASSERMAN - Betye. Betye (Baum) Wasserman of Spring Valley, NY, passed away at her home after battling a long illness. She was 59. Mrs. Wasserman was born on February 25, 1940, in Bronx, NY, to Mae and Al Baum. She graduated from New Rochelle High School and then Lesley College where she re
 APAT-Adeline. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLALThe National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Klara Silverstein, our esteemed Board member, her husband Larry and the entire family on the passing of Klara's beloved mother, Adeline Apat. M
 CUTILLO-Edith, 88, of Flushing, on November 6. Born in Manhattan, Ms. Cutillo was a graduate of Hunter College who joined the Red Cross as a social worker in 1944 and by 1947 was promoted to Casework Supervisor. After securing a Master's Degree in social work from Columbia University, she b
 FISHEL-Rose F. On Saturday, November 6, 1999, in St. Louis, MO, at the age of 99. She is survived by her great-granddaughters Lillian and Miriam Mindich. Rose was a lifelong resident of Park Slope. A memorial service will be held Thursday, December 16, 3 PM, 3rd St. entrance of Prospect Par
 GOLDFARB-Frieda The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Frieda Goldfarb, an esteemed member, and extend to her family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Saul Friedland, Secretary       
 HERRLICH-Marion M., late of Grafton, VT, on October 26 in Ambler, PA at the age of 93. She was the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Watson E. Morgan of Bristol and then Burlington, VT and the wife of the predeceased William E. Herrlich. Before moving to Grafton in 1967, Mr. and Mrs. Herrlich lived 
 KELSEY-Frances Voorhees. Age 83, died peacefully on November 6, 1999, at her residence in Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ, as a result of a stroke which occurred on October 22. At her bedside were her loving husband of 58 years, H. Burr Kelsey, and her three devoted and loving children, Patric
 LEVY-Ceil (nee Novison). May 11, 1914 to November 7, 1999, surrounded by many loving people to ease her passage into the next phase of the journey. Her time on earth was only the beginning. Her spirit, courage, intelligence and love of learning leave a legacy to her family and friends now a
 SCHWAB-Lois F. Of Roosevelt Island and Gardiner, NY, died on November 8. She was 76 years old. Born in New York City to Sidney and Nathalie Goetter Feibleman, she grew up in Great Neck, NY and New Orleans, was married in 1947 to Armand Schwab Jr. and moved north. The couple lived in Mamaron
 SHEHADI-Ruth Lambert. Age 76, born in Saint Louis, MO, graduate of Washington University, long time Greenwich resident. Beloved mother and wife, devoted advocate for the mentally ill. Her peace, love and sense of humor will be sorely missed. Services Thursday 11 A.M. at First Presbyterian C
 THOMAS-Madeleine A. (Bobbie). On November 4, 1999. Beloved wife of William H. Thomas (Bill). Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Ave. at 66th St, Friday, Nov. 12th, 10 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 VOGEL-Ruth. (nee Epstein). Died peacefully November 7, 1999 at the age of 82 at her home in Boynton Beach, FL. Formerly of New York City, Chatham, N.Y. and Freeport, L.I. Beloved wife of Dr. George for 56 years. Devoted mother of Dr. Robert and Ronald. Loving grandmother of Daria, Evan, Geo
 BROUT-Betty Lea. On November 8, 1999. Dear sister of Judith Friedman and Robert Brout. Sister-inlaw of Sandor Friedman. Betty was a social worker and writer; she dedicated her life to the principles of humanism and ethical culture. She has served on the Boards of the New York Ethical Cultur
 FINE-Verna. We mourn the passing of a devoted colleague, courageous woman, and cherished friend. Verna's spirited presence and ready wit will endure in the hearts and memories of those whose lives she touched. Our condolences to her loving family. Boosey & Hawkes Linda S. Golding, President
 FROHLICH-Anne, 92, died Nov. 8. Wife of the late Jack Frohlich, mother and mother-in-law to Sam & Angela Frohlich, Harriet and Howard Herzog, grandmother to Jamie Vandervelden, Jennifer Rodier and husbands James & Brian. Her great grandchildren are Justin Vandervelden & Sara Rodier. Rose Ro
 LEATHERS-Virginia. Nov. 7, in Freehold, NJ. Beloved wife of the late L. Hudson Leathers. Survived by son, John, & her grandchildren, Joanna & Jonathan of Manhattan. Born in Columbia, SC, longtime New Jersey resident. Known for her Southern charm & stylish hats. Burial will be in South Carol
 LITTLE-Fannie A. Of Ridgefield, CT. At the age of 87. Formerly of Ardsley and Somers, New York. Fifty-two year employee with DuArt Film Laboratories in New York City. Mother of Charlotte E. Donigi and her husband, Don, and Frank G. Little, Jr. Grandmother of 5, great grandmother of six. Fun
 MONAS - Pauline Levy. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Pauline Levy Monas, the beloved mother of Martin Monas, the JBFCS board member whose generosity established Levy-Monas House on Long Island. Mrs. Monas played a role in cr
 ADLEMAN-Jeanne. In San Francisco, on November 6, after a long illness. Therapist, Author, Educator, and Feminist and Anti-Racist Activist. Survived by her loving children, Martha and Donald Mahoney of Miami, Stepdaughters, Judith Mahoney Pasternak of New York and Joan Mahoney of Detroit, an
 AMABILE-Alida Maria, 48, of Santa Monica, CA. November 8, 1999. Beloved sister of Maryellen and husband John D. Ryan, cherished aunt of Christine Marie and Andrew John Ryan. She was predeceased by her parents Arthur V. and Marie L. Amabile. Resting, Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY w
 APAT-Adeline. The Trustees and staff of the Hunter College Foundation extend heartfelt condolences to Klara Silverstein, our trustee, her husband Larry, and their family on the death of Klara's beloved mother, Adeline. Like Klara, a daughter of Hunter College, Adeline also shared a devotion
 BLUM-Lillian, on October 25, 1999, beloved wife of Louis D. Blum, cherished sister of Belle Grohs, and devoted mother to Elizabeth, Margaret, and Charles Busch. Both fragile and indomitable, she was the port in the storm for everyone she loved. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made 
 HANAUER-Lilo (nee Growald). Died peacefully after a long illness, November 10th, 1999 at the age of 87 in her home in New York City. Beloved wife of Bernard Hanauer for 53 years. Sadly missed by daughters Elaine Hanauer Ravich and Linda Hanauer, son-in-law William Ravich and grandaughters M
 MAYER-Christine. Passed away peacefully November 9, 1999 after a long illness. Cherished daughter of Nomy Mayer. Adored sister of Robert & devoted niece of Elaine Johnson. She will be remembered and loved for her great courage and kindness and an inspiration to her friends and family. In li
 MONAS - Pauline Levy. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Pauline Levy Monas, the beloved mother of Martin Monas, the JBFCS board member whose generosity established Levy-Monas House on Long Island. Mrs. Monas played a role in cr
 SCHWARZ-Marjorie, 86, died peacefully on November 9, at her home in San Francisco. Beloved sister of Barbara French, Eleanor Stock and Dorothy Hines. She was also a cherished aunt and great aunt and will be sorely missed. Any contributions in her memory can be made to Audubon Canyon Ranch, 
 SULLIVAN-Judith A. Of Ancramdale, NY on November 8. Artist, teacher, contractor, visionary and adored friend of many worldwide, Judy wanted to use her experience as a Peace Corps volunteer in Bulgaria to help build international business partnership. Visitation at home today from 4-8 PM, Ga
 WEINSIER-Joan. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 AMABILE-Alida Maria., 48, of Santa Monica, CA. November 8, 1999. Beloved sister of Maryellen and husband John D. Ryan, cherished aunt of Christine Marie and Andrew John Ryan. She was predeceased by her parents Arthur V. and Marie L. Amabile. Resting, Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY 
 FISCHMAN-Naomi, Dr.. Wife of the late Lewis. Beloved mother of Dr. Ronald (Cora) Fischman and Dr. Daniel (Marlene) Fischman. Dear sister of Zeev Lurie. Also survived by four grandchildren: Michael, Leslie, Nicole, and Leah. She received her Ph.D. from New York University and taught Hebraic 
 MONAS - Pauline Levy. The Board, staff and volunteers of DOROT, Inc. extend deepest condolences to our longtime supporter and Honorary Board member, Martin Monas, on the passing of his beloved mother. Her belief in community involvement and devotion to family were evident in Mr. Monas' dedi
 PERRY-PRINCE-Arlene. A beautiful loving and giving lady has left us. We are better for her grace and poorer by her passing. Goodbye, Arlene Iris. The Orenstein, Goeringer and Spokojny Families       
 PINCHAS-Marcia Cooper. on November 11, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Raphael, devoted mother of Daniel and David, loving grandmother of Marisa. She was a United Nations staff member for 35 years. She will be deeply missed by all whose lives she touched. Service today at 9:30AM at the ''Riv
 SEIFFERT-Lee. At the age of 92. Survided by her brothers and sisters Peggy Rothstein, Max Tabachnick, Susan Weinstein and Emanuel Tabachnick. Services are private.       
 SHTOB-Abraham. The entire National Lawyers Guild family embrace our Dotty, her children Terry and Eric, grandchildren Danny and Nicky, and great grandson Hugo as they mourn Abe, labor educator and life-long fighter for social justice. Dotty derives so much of her devotion to us from her par
 WEINSIER-Joan (nee Tuby). On November 10, 1999. Loving daughter of Evelyn Tuby and the late Dr. Robert Tuby. Beloved wife of Philip. Adored and treasured mother of Michael and Wendy and mother-in-law of Marcy. Cherished grandmother of Matthew. Devoted sister of Suellen Globus and loving aun
 ZIPKIN-Frances. Beloved wife of the late Jack Zipkin. Loving sister and sister-in-law. Dear aunt to her many nieces and nephews, grand nieces and grand nephews and good friends. Funeral services are on Sunday 12 noon Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 76th Road, 
 FRIED-Ruth. Age 69. Of Remsenburg, N.Y. and Boca Raton, FL. On November 11, 1999. In this limited space and at this time, it is impossible to adequately convey our warmth and love for Ruth. Our mother and wife was so many things: a businesswoman; a writer; a political activist; a loving spo
 ISELIN-Betty Bing. Of Long Branch, New Jersey, and New York City on November 11, 1999. Wife of the late Philip H. Iselin, President of the New York Jets and Monmouth Jockey Club. She was the creator and Chairman of the Monmouth Park Charity Ball, which funded Monmouth County charitable orga
 KRAFT-Eve F. The entire New York Junior Tennis League family mourns the passing of our dear friend Eve, who inspired and guided our mission to grow the sport of tennis for NYC youngsters. We will miss her untiring passion, creativity and brillance in developing community tennis programs in 
 MANSELL-Edmona Lyman, age 70, of Jupiter Island, Fl and East Hampton, NY, died on November 11, 1999. A native of San Francisco, CA, she resided in New York City for many years. She is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, CA, Charles B. Mille
 SATTINGER-Ethel. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to Shirley Rubin, pastAuxiliary Honoree, and her husband Seymour, member of the Gurwin Housing Board, on the passing of Ethel Sattinger, a longtime reside
 FRIEDMAN-Toby Nevins. Of Boynton Beach, FL; formerly of Cedarhurst, NY, and White Meadow Lake, NJ; passed away November 11, 1999. Woman of valor. Beloved wife of Harold K. for 53 years. Loving mother of Lydia (Jon) Jacobs and Nancy Friedman (Steve Posner). Proud grandmother of Scott, Jolie,
 GOLDSTEIN-Shirley Blum. On November 13, 1999. Beloved wife of Albert; devoted mother of Howard and Richard; loving grandmother of Lindsey and Annie; cherished sister of Dr. Bertram Blum. She will be deeply missed. Services will be held Sunday at 2 PM, at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich St, Hempst
 GRADY-Shirley J. Of Chatham Township, NJ, on November 11, 1999. Beloved wife of William J. Grady. Mother of Trisha Grady and her husband, Richard Lieberman, of Sunnyside, NY; Kathy Grady and her husband, Alan Godchaux, of New Orleans, LA; and Mike Grady and his wife, Margaret, of Chatham, N
 ISAACSON-Ruth. Of Manhattan, on November 12. Beloved mother of Donna and Lynn, sister of Blanche and Alvin Smith, aunt of Susan, Carol, and Laura, and grandmother of Hanna Frankel. She comes to this greatest of journeys well prepared, for she was a gallant and resourceful world traveler, al
 ISELIN-Betty Bing. Of Long Branch, New Jersey, and New York City on November 11, 1999. Wife of the late Philip H. Iselin, President of the New York Jets and Monmouth Jockey Club. She was the creator and Chairman of the Monmouth Park Charity Ball, which funded Monmouth County charitable orga
 KRAFT-Eve F. The entire New York Junior Tennis League family mourns the passing of our dear friend Eve, who inspired and guided our mission to grow the sport of tennis for NYC youngsters. We will miss her untiring passion, creativity and brillance in developing community tennis programs in 
 MANSELL-Edmona Lyman, age 70, of Jupiter Island, Fl and East Hampton, NY, died on November 11, 1999. A native of San Francisco, CA, she resided in New York City for many years. She is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, CA, Charles B. Mille
 POTTS-Jean. At age 88, died Wednesday, November 10, 1999. Jean was the recipient of The Edgar Award for ''Go Lovely Rose'' in 1954 and went on to write 14 more mysteries and nearly 40 stories. She was a native of Saint Paul, Nebraska, where there is a permanent exhibit of her works at the G
 ROTH-Pauline. Age 89, died on November 6. Beloved wife of the late Joel Roth. Survived by loving family, Doris and Elliot Rosenblatt, Dr. William and Francine Kohlberg, and Dr. Stephen Roth. She will be missed by grandchildren Lauren, Marnie, Jeffrey, David, Edward, Diana, Mark & Jason.    
 SYKES-Dorothy Millang. Age 92. Died peacefully at her home in East Hampton on November 12. Devoted wife of the late James. Loving mother of Cordelia Menges, James Sykes Jr. and Martha Murray. Adored grandmother of Dorothy, Jake, Stuart, Ben, Matthew, Sam, Andrew and David. Cherished great-g
 ABRAMSON-Esther. This grand lady has been taken from our midst. No longer shall we experience her warmth, love and sensitivity. She will never be forgotten and is mourned by her grandchildren Marjorie Greene, Stuart Abramson, Jane Morris, Rebecca Dobler, Michael Kaplan and Deborah Dickensen
 BERKUN-Judith G. On November 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Mordecai. Devoted mother of Alicia and Geza, Edward and Joanne, Barry and Leslie, Robin and Rick, Leslie and Jose, Margarita, and the late Norman. Cherished grandmother of Alexander, Neal, Robbie, Ben, Sarah, Suzanne, Noah and Araceli. 
 BRANDWEN-Helen. November 12, 1999. Wife of the late Maxwell Brandwen. Mother of Diane Pachetti and Hope Finney. Grandmother of Simone, Alex, Tomaso, Nick, Ricciarda and Edward. Friends may call Wednesday, November 17, 5-8PM at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Funeral private. 
 GOLDSTEIN-Sydney. Age 97, on Saturday, November 13, in Coconut Grove, FL. Beloved wife of the late Walter H. Goldstein. Beloved mom and friend to Robert and Helen Williams Goldstein, June and Max Kerman. Cherished ''Gram'' to 11 grandchildren. Beloved ''GG'' to ten great-grandchildren. She 
 KRAFT-Eve F. The entire New York Junior Tennis League family mourns the passing of our dear friend Eve, who inspired and guided our mission to grow the sport of tennis for NYC youngsters. We will miss her untiring passion, creativity and brillance in developing community tennis programs in 
 KRISER-Anne N. On November 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Judy Feldstein. Dear mother-in-law of Richard Feldstein. Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth and Christopher Rile and Julie and Mark Kessler. Adoring great-grandmother of Jessica and Lily. She will be deeply misse
 LEMKAU-Janet L., 84, of Essex, Connecticut, formerly of Plandome, NY, died on November 10, 1999, in Essex. She was born in Syracuse, NY, on March 20, 1915, the daughter of Arthur W. and Adena Phillips Leasby. She was the widow of Hudson B. Lemkau, Sr.; the mother of Arthur Lemkau of Port Wa
 MANSELL-Edmona Lyman, age 70, of Jupiter Island, Fl and East Hampton, NY, died on November 11, 1999. A native of San Francisco, CA, she resided in New York City for many years. She is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, CA, Charles B. Mille
 SYKES-Dorothy Millang. Age 92. Died peacefully at her home in East Hampton on November 12. Devoted wife of the late James. Loving mother of Cordelia Menges, James Sykes Jr. and Martha Murray. Adored grandmother of Dorothy, Jake, Stuart, Ben, Matthew, Sam, Andrew and David. Cherished great-g
 Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause of de
 BERKOWITZ-Bess. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Bess Berkowitz, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Nat, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 BERKUN-Judith G. On November 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Mordecai. Devoted mother of Alicia & Geza, Edward and Joanne, Barry and Leslie, Robin and Rick, Leslie and Jose, Margarita, and the late Norman. Cherished grandmother of Alexander, Neal, Robbie, Ben, Sarah, Suzanne, Noah, Sam and Aracel
 GERBER-Jane O. On November 15, 1999 of Garden City, NY. Beloved wife of Roger. Loving mother of Suzanne. Devoted grandmother of Alexandra Nicole. Loving mother-in-law of Wayne Muller. Also, survived by her sister Ethel Ursprung and brother Ralph Rodman Oborne. In repose at the Fairchild Fun
 HIDARY-Mary. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Mary Hidary, beloved mother of our dear friend and former member of our board of directors, David Hidary. Mrs. Hidary was the matriarch of a prominent philanthropic family
 KRISER-Anne N. On November 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Judy Feldstein. Dear mother-in-law of Richard Feldstein. Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth and Christopher Rile and Julie and Mark Kessler. Adoring great-grandmother of Jessica and Lily. She will be deeply misse
 LESEROWITZ-Nathaniel. The Society of Practitioners of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center extends their heartfelt sympathy to our Vice President, Dr. Freya Schnabel, Associate Attending Department of Surgery and her children Yoni and Talia upon the death of Nathaniel Leserowitz, husband an
 McDONALD-Elfriede. Of Shelter Island, NY. On November 12, 1999. A woman of singular zeal who carried an unprecedented affection for life. She possessed an insatiable passion of our world many diverse cultures, its overwhelming and fragile beauty, and those loving beings who inhabited its te
 PARKER-Emanuel M. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Inez Sharp, Dr. Leslie Parker and Paul T. (Ruth) Parker. Loving grandfather of Charles, Jillian, Rebecca and Marcus. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, ''Weinstein-West End Funeral Chapel'', 1283 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn, NY.      
 WEINSTEIN-Doris (nee Edelman). Loving wife and best friend of Ira J. for 47 years. Mother of Peter & Andrea, Robert and Mary. Grandmother of Brianna, Brooke, and Alexandria. Sister of Gerald, & Maxine Edelman, Janet Edelman, Shirley and George Weinstein. Good friend of Emma Lee. Loved by ma
 Ranjabati Sircar, a dancer and choreographer who fused India's classical and folk dance traditions with experimental forms from the West, died in Bombay on Oct. 23. She was 36 and lived in Calcutta. The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director o
 Georgia Hofmann, an owner and breeder of thoroughbred racehorses, including the Triple Tiara winner Sky Beauty, died Sunday at her home in Bal Harbour, Fla. She was 91. The cause was complications from leukemia, which was diagnosed several months ago, said Lawrence G. Foster, a fami
 DELAFIELD-Margaret Gade. Of Vero Beach, Florida died Friday, November 12 at home. She was born in Rochester, New York in 1910 and was the widow of Lieutenant Richard Delafield USNR who died in 1945. She is survived by her children: Cecily Delafield of Vero Beach. Felicia Delafield Van Praag
 MENDELSOHN-Lore (Hiller). 70, of New York City, on November 14th, 1999, after a short illness. Beloved wife of Paul and mother of Teri and Eric. Lore died in her home with her family at her side. We will miss her enthusiastic engagement with the world and the energy she brought to everythin
 ORTIZ-Rita A. The Faculty, Advisory Council, Alumni Association, students and staff of the Columbia University School of Social Work are deeply saddened at the death of Rita Ortiz, former assistant professor and member of the Class of '47. A distinguished alumna and respected social worker 
 PARKER-Virginia. The City & Country School community mourns the loss of our dedicated and beloved colleague, Virginia Parker. For over fifty years, Virginia was an energetic and loyal contributor to the C. & C. community. Honest, forthright, caring and generous, Virginia was a cherished tea
 SEIDER-Julia L. in her 92nd year passed away of natural causes on November 15, 1999 at Hospice By The Sea in Boca Raton, FL. The widow of Morris Seider, she was the cherished mother of Norman Seider and Paula Seider Solomon and the beloved grandmother of Mitchell Seider, Shari Jacobson, Phi
 WEINSTEIN-Doris (nee Edelman). Loving wife and best friend of Ira J. for 47 years. Mother of Peter & Andrea, Robert and Mary. Grandmother of Brianna, Brooke, and Alexandria. Sister of Gerald, & Maxine Edelman, Janet Edelman, Shirley and George Weinstein. Good friend of Emma Lee. Loved by ma
 RONEY-Serena. (nee Berger). November 17, 1899-July 21, 1996. She would have been 100 today. Her Children, Grandchildren, Great Grandchildren, Sisters and Brother       
 Mabel King, an actress and singer best known for her portrayal of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Broadway and movie productions of ''The Wiz'' and her role as the mother in the mid-70's television comedy ''What's Happening!'' died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in Woodland Hills, C
 BARBANEL-Hilda. The Partners and Staff of Rosenberg & Estis are deeply saddened by the passing of Hilda Barbanel, beloved mother of Karen Barbanel and beloved mother-in-law of founding partner Warren A. Estis. Her loss will be felt by many, but she will live in the hearts of her loved ones 
 CASTORINA-Maria Polimeni, on November 16, 1999. Beloved wife of Frank. Devoted mother of Charles and Jane Gordon. Cherished grandmother of Whitney, Kimberly and Janine. Also survived by her sisters, Margaret Polimeni and Eleyene Vomero. Mass Saturday, St. Rosalia R.C. Church, 9:30 AM. Repos
 CLAYMORE-Sarah R. Died on November 14, 1999 at the age of 98. Daughter of the late Rose & Samuel Clayman. Beloved sister of Marjorie Cole and Jessie Rinsky and the late Anna Levine, Dr. Sigmund, Dr. Lawrence and Abraham Clayman. Devoted sister-in-law of Daniel Cole and Rita Clayman and the 
 FLEMING-Sister Elizabeth Maria. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, in her 76th year of religious life on November 17th, 1999. Survived by her nieces & nephew. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, New York, on Thursday 18PM. Mass of Christian Burial on F
 ISRAEL-Laura Nadler. On November 16, 1999 after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife for over 50 years to Theodore J. Israel Jr. Devoted mother of Michael Israel, Nancy and Steven Hannick of Highland Park, IL, and Wendy Israel of Chicago, IL. Adored grandmother of Jessica and Michael 
 LESEROWITZ-Nathaniel. The Advisory Council of Women At Risk extends our deepest sympathies to our colleague and friend, WAR Medical Director, Dr. Freya Schnabel, and her children Yoni & Talia, upon the untimely passing of her husband, Nathaniel Leserowitz. Our thoughts and prayers are with 
 ROTHSTEIN-Dorothy. On November 16, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard H. Rothstein. Fondly remembered by her niece and nephew, Nancy and Dennis PelzPaget and her good friend Elaine Seiden and loving godchildren Leslie and Bill A. Seiden. Service Sunday, November 21, 11AM, Beth David Cemetery, El
 SOKOLSKY-Evelyne R., 81, of Tamarac, FL. Passed away November 16, 1999. She is survived by her beloved husband Irving, her loving daughter Bette Sokolsky, dear son in-law Melvin (Regina) Minsky and her cherished grandaughter Jenifer Minsky-Frankel. Funeral services Thursday, November 18 at 
 TREMBICKI-Elizabeth Martin, 81, of Gloucester, Mass., formerly a resident of Manhasset, New York, died November 14, 1999. Mrs. Trembicki was born in Glen Rock, N.J., educated in Ridgewood, N.J. and graduated in 1940 from Smith College, magna cum laude. A resident of Long Island since 1956, 
 AVERSA-Pauline (nee Weinberg). March 18, 1911-November 13, 1999. Cherished wife, mother, grandmother and friend. Devoted to her family, late husband Rafael; children Gina Aversa, Hugo Kierszenbaum, M.D. and Susan Wein; granchildren Heidi Wein and Samantha Kierszenbaum. Former social worker,
 BARBANEL-Hilda H.. The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County extends its heartfelt condolences to Mr. Sidney Barbanel and the entire Barbanel family, on the passing of Hilda H. Barbanel, beloved wife, loving mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, sister, aunt and friend. Hilda Barbanel was an Ai
 CASADESUS-Gaby. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Gaby Casadesus, on November 12, 1999 in Paris at the age of 98. A native of Marseille, Mme. Casadesus was first taught by her mother and continued her studi
 CONNELLY-Josephine C.. (Nee O'Neill). 88, gracefully passed away Wednesday, November 17, 1999 at her home in Bryn Mawr, PA. Mrs. Connelly, a noted philanthropist, was the co-founder and Chairperson of the Connelly Foundation, W. Conshohocken, PA. Beloved wife of the late John F. Connelly, f
 HEYMANN-Helen London., 81, of Hollywood, Florida, formerly of New York City, on November 16, 1999, devoted wife of the late Maxwell. She was the beloved mother of Douglas, Stuart and Roger, mother-in-law of Marcie, Nancy & Rhona Heymann respectively; grandmother of Lonn, Eric, David, Monte,
 ISRAEL-Laura Nadler. On November 16, 1999 after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife for over 50 years to Theodore J. Israel Jr. Devoted mother of Michael Israel, Nancy and Steven Hannick of Highland Park, IL, and Wendy Israel of Chicago, IL. Adored grandmother of Jessica and Michael 
 LEVISON-Beatrice M.., wife of the late Stanley D. Levison, will be remembered with the deepest love and affection by her son, Andrew, her daughter-in-law, Judith, and her two grandchildren, Tony and David, in whose lives she was a warm and loving presence. In lieu of flowers, contributions 
 REGINA-Jocelyn. On November 17, 1999. Loving mother of Nancy Goodfellow (Jay), Marjorie Kass (Thomas) and Joanne Korman. Adoring grandmother of Sally Goodfellow, Rachel and Hannah Kass. She will be missed by her loving family and friends. Service Friday 2pm at the ''Riverside'', 76th St. an
 WEBSTER-Frances Brown. On Nov. 11 at Kendal at Hanover in Hanover, NH, of a pulmonary embolism. Beloved wife of the late Beveridge Webster, pianist and teacher at the Julliard School of Music, who died June 30, 1999. Survived by their daughter Wendy Webster Ardizzone and son Michael Webster
 WEINSTEIN-Doris. The Executive Committee and the Board of Directors of the Great Neck Arts Center express their deep sorrow at the passing of a great lady and good friend of the arts and education. Through the Schnurmacher Foundations Doris Weinstein provided dance studios, pianos, and scho
 Edmona Lyman Mansell, who founded the Freedom Institute in Manhattan and was one of the first alcoholism counselors in New York to promote intervention as a treatment technique, died Nov. 11 at a hospital in Jupiter, Fla. She was 70. The cause was emphysema, said her daughter Jessic
 Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris. She was 98. Mrs. Casadesus, whose name was originally Gaby L'
 Dr. Naomi Bluestone, a medical writer, a practitioner, a teacher and a ''Dear Abby'' to a generation of aspiring doctors, died Nov. 13 at her home in Center Barnstead, N.H. She was 63 and had moved there from Great Neck, N.Y., in 1991. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, sai
 CASADESUS-Gaby. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Gaby Casadesus, on November 12, 1999 in Paris at the age of 98. A native of Marseille, Mme. Casadesus was first taught by her mother and continued her studi
 KAPLAN-Lori. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of Lori Kaplan, beloved daughter of Tobee and Leonard Kaplan, passionate Conservative Jews who have put philanthrophy and love of Judaism in the center of their family life. Our hearts go out to them, Lori's s
 ROSNER-Anna. Beloved wife of the late Leo Rosner, died at the blessed age of 101. She will live forever in the memory of her daughters Mildred Kaplow and June Rosner; her grandchildren Stacy, Jeffrey, Wendy, Amy and Marcy, and her seven great grandchildren. Memorial service at Riverside Fun
 STOLER-Sara C.. Age 83, of Stowe, VT, died peacefully on November 18, 1999 at her home surrounded by her loving family. She is survived by her son Will, her daughter Ann, her grandchildren Gwenn, Tessa, Bruno and her brother William Cracken.       
 WEINSTEIN-Doris. It is with great regret that we mark the passing of Doris Weinstein, a true Woman of Valor and a person that we should all try to emulate. Doris always looked at the bright side of everything. It was indeed difficult to tell that she was ill when you were with her. Her posi
 ALEXANDER-Diane Davenport. Died peacefully November 17, 1999, at Longboat Key, Florida; age 74. Formerly a resident of Westport, Connecticut. Beloved wife of Charles J. Alexander, Jr., loving mother of Lauren Helmetag of Brooklyn Heights, New York, Leslie Luhring of Brooklyn Heights, Charle
 CASADESUS-Gaby. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Gaby Casadesus, on November 12, 1999 in Paris at the age of 98. A native of Marseille, Mme. Casadesus was first taught by her mother and continued her studi
 CONNELLY-Josephine C. (Nee O'Neill). 88, gracefully passed away Wednesday, November 17, 1999 at her home in Bryn Mawr, PA. Mrs. Connelly, a noted philanthropist, was the co-founder and Chairperson of the Connelly Foundation, W. Conshohocken, PA. Beloved wife of the late John F. Connelly, fo
 ROSNER-Anna. Age 101, on November 18th, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Loving mother of Mildred and June. Adored grandmother of Stacy, Jeffrey, Wendy, Amy and Marcy. Cherished greatgrandmother. Anna had a long fruitful life and she will be deeply missed by all.       
 VONDERMUHLL - Rosamond Lombard, 90, wife of George A. Vondermuhll, Jr., died peacefully Sunday, November 14, 1999, at Duncaster Retirement Community, Bloomfield, CT. Daughter of the late Percival Hall and Isabel (Fabyan) Lombard of Brookline and Pocasset, MA. Beloved and devoted wife, mothe
 ALEXANDER-Diane Davenport. Died peacefully November 17, 1999, at Longboat Key, Florida; age 74. Formerly a resident of Westport, Connecticut. Beloved wife of Charles J. Alexander, Jr., loving mother of Lauren Helmetag of Brooklyn Heights, New York, Leslie Luhring of Brooklyn Heights, Charle
 BLEICH-Dorothy Reman. On November 21, 1999, died peacefully in her sleep after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of David and Laura, Eric and June, Gay and Gene Kassan. Adored grandmother of Brian, Kate, Amanda, Alexander, Michael Kassan and Elisabeth Kassan. D
 FADER-Jutta. The staff of the Kings County District Attorney's Office mourns with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Jutta Fader, beloved wife of David Fader, Executive Director of Fiscal and Human Resouces. In addition to her husband, Jutta is survived by her mother, Herta Schliewert, her
 JACOBSON-Martha Goodstein. Age 84, of Hickory, NC. Died November 20, 1999. Beloved wife of Archie Kirschman and Ben Jacobson; cherished mother of Barry J. Jacobson and Pauline K. Lavitt; devoted grandmother of Ari, Adam, Brette, Spiro and Stefano Jacobson and Howard and Arthur Lavitt; adore
 KEAGY-Ann Elizabeth. Died November 19 at Waveny Care Center, New Canaan, CT after a prolonged illness from Alzheimers. For 35 years, she headed the Fashion Design Department of the Parsons School of Design. Survivors are her husband, J. Rodman Keagy, daughter, Wendy Ann Keagy, both of New C
 MINKOFF-Edith. Died in her sleep on November 20. She was a beloved mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and friend, a longtime volunteer Braille writer, and a former Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. She was a dynamic human being. We all loved her. Roni Norwin       
 SEIDMAN-Judith. On November 21, in her 88th year. Deeply beloved wife for 63 treasured years of her lifelong friend Lloyd. Incomparable mother of Elinor Berlin and David, and to their spouses Robert Berlin and Ruth Greenstein. Devoted grandmother of Daniel, Michael and Joanna Berlin. Her in
 Eufrosina Raileanu, the principal violist of the New York City Opera Orchestra and a busy freelance player who worked with several chamber groups, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from breast c
 CATTS-Maye V. Of New York and Florida, died November 20, 1999. Survived by her loving daughter Roberta Mallow; grandchildren Deborah (Brian) and Peter (Miranda), and great-grandchildren Dean and David. Private services at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 COURTNEY - Christina (nee O'Neill). Fortified with the Sacraments of Holy Mother Church. Born in Tullamore, County Offaly, Ireland on January 1, 1904. She passed away peacefully November 20, 1999 at her daughter's home in Chesterfield, Missouri. Beloved wife of the late William Joseph Court
 CROFT-Edith. November 20, 1999. Survived by her only child, Rhoda Croft, of 1 High Service Avenue, North Providence, R.I. 02911.       
 DORIN-Lillian (Lee). On November 21, 1999. Beloved wife of Abraham (Al). Adored and adoring mother of Amy Dorin and Jeanne Dorin McDowell. Wonderful grandma of Julia Dorin McDowell. Cherished sister/sister-in-law of Minna, Elliott and Philip & Estelle Horowitz, Miriam Reisman and Alma & the
 FELLER-Elaine, age 69, retired educator; resident of Belle Harbor, NY, on November 22nd. Beloved wife of Irving for 43 years; cherished mother of Michael, Robyn, Alyssa and Paul; loving grandmother of Danielle, Zachary and Sam. Her boundless love and courage will remain an inspiration to al
 HOROWITZ-Selma. On November 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Mortimer. Daughter of the late David and Fanny Drechsler. Sister of the late Bernard. Mother of Bobbi Horowitz and the late Sue Hank. Grandmother to David Slone. She was a team golfer, bridge player and always a kid from Brookly
 KEAGY-Ann Lavaty. Parsons School of Design, a division of New School University, mourns the loss of Ann Lavaty Keagy, who chaired the Department of Fashion Design from 1953 until 1982 when she retired. For three decades Mrs. Keagy educated two generations of the best & brightest on Seventh 
 KLINE-Bebe Aron, 88, on November 18th, 1999, Kislev 9, 5760. Beloved, loyal and generous mother of Karen M. and Kenneth S., wife of Samuel, optimistic and funny grandmother of Daniel H. and Rachel S., adoring sister of George and Charles Aron, devoted aunt. Graduate St. John's Law School 19
 LEWIS-Beatrice R. (Fishman), 82, of Monroe Twp., NJ, formerly of Brooklyn on November 22, 1999. Mrs. Lewis loved being a Legal Secretary at Donovan, Leisure, Newton and Irvine until May 1986. She loved New York, the theatre, her family and Loehmans. Mrs. Lewis was a member of the National C
 RAILEANU-Eufrosina. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of Eufrosina Raileanu, the principal violist in our orchestra since 1988. She was a greatly gifted musician who brought joy to her music making while continually striving for perfection. The courage and grace with which she f
 VAN NORDEN-Elizabeth, Wife of the late Duncan Van Norden, passed away on Sunday, November 21, 1999. She was 87 years old. Born in New York City to Elizabeth and Stanley M. Rumbough, Mrs. Van Norden was a resident of New York before moving to Palm Beach. She served as a director of the New Y
 WIENER-Annabelle, Deputy Secretary General, World Federation of the United Nations Association, age 78, died after a short illness on November 20. She is survived by her three children, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. A memorial will be held November 23, U.N. Chapel, 44 ST. 
 YANNUZZI-Josephine J. (nee Palumbo) on Sunday, November 21, 1999, of Manhattan. Wife of the late Geraldo Yannuzzi, mother of Lawrence Yannuzzi, MD, & Louise Saliceti. Sister of John Palumbo, the late Philomena Margotta, Anthony, and Carmen Palumbo. Also survived by five grandchildren, and t
 Gladys Yang, a British translator who spent most of her life in China, translating and promoting Chinese literature for foreign readers, died Thursday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. She was 80. ''After such famous translators from Chinese as Arthur Waley an
 Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio. She was 58 and lived in Dayton. The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contempo
 SLUTZKY-Rhoda (nee Wegenstein), age 93, of Brooklyn. Beloved wife of 71 years to Samuel. Loving mother of Michael & Carol Slutzky. Devoted grandmother to Steven and Jill, Mark & Debbie, Debra and Ian Hendler, and Stuart and Susan. She loved & was loved by friends and family and will truly b
 WIMSATT-Margaret Elizabeth Hecht died November 22, 1999. She was born in Chicago, IL, February 26, 1919, to the late Frank Abner and Margaret Lipps Hecht. She is survived by her son, James Velvet Wimsatt, and her daughter-in-law, Nancy Lee Abbey, of Hamden, CT. She was predeceased by her so
 Mary Kay Bergman, whose many voices were heard on ''South Park'' and in other animated television shows and films, died on Nov. 11 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 38. The cause of death was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Officer Charlotte Broughton of the Los Angeles Polic
 D'ALBINI-Clara., 95, died on October 31, 1999. Mourned by her daughter and son-in-law, Gabrielle and Gabe Katona, by cherished relatives of her beloved husband the late Louis, and by her many friends and fellow travelers.       
 DURELL-Helen. On November 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Jack, Robert and Marjorie. Adoring grandmother of Stewart, Seth and Jared. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends. Graveside service Friday, 1PM at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 GALLAGHER - Grace. The Trustees, physicians and staff of the hospitals of Mount Sinai NYU Health note with profound sadness the passing of Grace Gallagher, beloved wife of our esteemed colleage, Jack Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer of North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System, our stra
 HOROWITZ-Selma. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member, Selma Horowitz, and extend our sincere condolences to the members of her family. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 MACKIE-Helga Joles. Died on November 23, 1999, in NYC. Born in Vienna, she arrived in this country at age 11 during W.W. II. Beloved wife of Vernon & mother of Joshua. Her memory will live in the hearts of all whose lives she has touched. Funeral Service on Friday, November 26, 10AM Plaza M
 TUMPOWSKY-Marcia F.. Beloved wife of Roy. Loving mother of Paul & Ronald. A devoted mother and teacher. She'll be missed by her family, friends and students. Funeral service to be held 10AM Friday, November 26 at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York.      
 DUBNER-Florence Veronica. A woman of singular conviction, a mother (and grandmother and great-grandmother) of singular devotion. Survived and mourned by a great many friends and a large, loving family, especially her children: Joseph, Mona, Marthe, Ann, Peter, David, Elizabeth and Stephen. 
 DURELL-Helen. On November 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Jack, Robert and Marjorie. Adoring grandmother of Stewart, Seth and Jared. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends. Graveside service Friday, 1PM at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 TUMPOWSKY-Marcia F. Beloved wife of Roy. Loving mother of Paul & Ronald. A devoted mother and teacher. She'll be missed by her family, friends and students. Funeral service to be held 10AM Friday, November 26 at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York.       
 BERLOWITZ-Paula. Age 94, passed away peacefully Sunday, November 21, at her home in Coney Island. She is survived by her brother Philip and numerous nephews and nieces. We mourn her loss and cherish her indomitable zest for life. Friends and Family of Paula Berlowitz       
 LENNON-Katherine M.. Age 87, died November 25, 1999 in Albany, NY. Lifelong resident of NYC, she was the daughter of the late Martin and Mary O'Dea Lennon, and sister of the late Roger T. Lennon. Miss Lennon was employed for more than 30 years at Coats and Clark Mfg. Co. as secretary to the
 SLATKIN-Regina Shoolman. Of NYC, Essex, NY, Palm Beach, FL. formerly of Montreal on Nov. 25, 1999. Born January 16, 1907. Loving wife of the late Charles E. Slatkin, devoted mother of Carole and Laura. Also survived by her dear Rose Slatkin, David & Charles Schulman, Gus Slatkin; and by man
 CATTS-Maye V.. Of New York and Florida, died November 20, 1999. Survived by her loving daughter Roberta Mallow; grandchildren Deborah (Brian) and Peter (Miranda), and great-grandchildren Dean and David. Private services at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 D'ALBINI-Clara., 95, died on October 31, 1999. Mourned by her daughter and son-in-law, Gabrielle and Gabe Katona, by cherished relatives of her beloved husband the late Louis, and by her many friends and fellow travelers.       
 FINE-Joy. born September 23, 1924 in New York. Passed away November 21, 1999 in Poway, CA. Survived by her sons Dr. Matthew Fine (Isabell) and Henry Fine (Amy), brother Bert Gerzog (Natalie), three grandchildren, and long time friend Irwin Blocker. Services were held Tuesday, November 23, 1
 GOTTLIEB-Janet Laib. A fashion writer and publicist, died Friday, November 26 from cancer. She was 73. Mrs. Gottlieb left college and moved to New York after publishing her first freelance article, ''Must College Girls Wear Diapers?'' about the coddling of co-eds. Though intending a life on
 HARRIS-Ethel Rosenfield. Lifelong Chicago resident. Died age 97, November 25, 1999. Mrs. Harris was a life Board Member of Michael Reese Hospital & a member of the Hospital's Women's Board. Charitable interests were Jewish organizations and The Art Institute of Chicago. She is survived by t
 IMERBLUM-Fay. At age 96. Beloved wife of the late Russell Imerblum & loving longtime friend of Harry Alpert. Survived by nephew Arnold Saks. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Monday 12 Noon. Entombment in Mount Pleasant Cemetery. Contributions in her memory may be
 KIP-Barbara Alice Boyle. died on Friday, November 19, 1999 at her home in Millwood, New York from cancer of the lung. She was born in New York City on February 25, 1927, a daughter of the late William P. and Jane Boyle. She was a lifelong resident of Briarcliff Manor, Ossining and Millwood,
 MANDELBAUM-Nellie. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Mimi & Fred Einsidler, David & Rosemary Mandelbaum, loving grandmother of Jon, Amy, Timmy and Jamie, great-grandmother of ten. Devoted sister of Rebecca Gerson. Services private. Contributions in her memory may be made to
 SAMUELSON-Elsie F.. Of New Rochelle, on November 26, 1999, director and co-founder of the Stage Door Manor Performing Arts Training Center. Beloved wife of Carl. Devoted mother of Debra Samuelson of NYC and Cynthia Samuelson and her husband, Jonathan Samen of Lexington, MA. Dear grandmother
 SLATKIN-Regina Shoolman. Of NYC, Essex, NY, Palm Beach, FL. formerly of Montreal on Nov. 25, 1999. Born January 16, 1907. Loving wife of the late Charles E. Slatkin, devoted mother of Carole and Laura. Also survived by her dear Rose Slatkin, David & Charles Schulman, Gus Slatkin; and by man
 WILLIAMS-Margaret Morrill., 77, died on November 21, 1999 at the Hilton Head Medical Center and Clinics, Hilton Head Island, SC. A life long resident of Bronxville until 1981, she was active in a variety of social, civic and charitable organizations, including Planned Parenthood of Westches
 WYNNE-Kathleen McNaughton., R.N. On November 18, 1999 in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late William J. Wynne (N.Y. Times) of Cushendall, Clontarf Ireland and Peter Cooper Village, N.Y.       
 Sufia Kamal, a Bangladeshi poet, political activist and feminist, died at age 88 on Nov. 20 and was buried four days later with full state honors, the first woman to receive that recognition from Bangladesh. As the national flag was lowered and buglers saluted, about 10,000 people p
 BLUM-Ruth (nee Glass). On Saturday, November 27, in Baltimore, formerly of New York and Miami Beach, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Michael H. (Mickey) Blum. Devoted mother of David Blum. Dear mother and mother-in-law of Fran and Jim Goodman and Harlyne Kohlberg Blum. Loving and
 GOLDSTEIN-Joan. November 26, 1999. Most loved wife of Alvin Goldstein, mother to Janis, Howard, Neva and Doug, devoted grandmother to Daniel, Robert, Rebecca, Corey and Jesse, and sister to Marcia. Her fierce love and commitment to her family and friends will be most sorrowfully missed in t
 GOTTLIEB-Janet Laib. A fashion writer and publicist, died Friday, November 26 from cancer. She was 73. Mrs. Gottlieb left college and moved to New York after publishing her first freelance article, ''Must College Girls Wear Diapers?'' about the coddling of co-eds. Though intending a life on
 JAFFIN-Katheryn Renate. On November 27. Adoring mother of Madeleine R. Kania. Devoted grandmother of Jennifer Ann and Laura Jean Kania. Proud motherin-law of Robert J. Kania. Devoted wife of 52 years to the late Theodore S. Jaffin. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, W
 KAUFMAN-Rita. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of its devoted alumni parent and grandparent and longtime benefactor, the beloved mother of our cherished alumni and supporters, the late Judy Hurwich, Gerald S. Kaufman, Belda Lindenbaum and Carol Newman. The Kaufman Auditorium in ou
 MacJANNET-Charlotte Blensdorf. Died November 25, in Geneva, Switzerland, age 98. As a musician, educator, camp director and conference organizer, she spent the 20th century promoting international peace and good will throughout Europe and America. With her late husband, Donald, she operated
 MARKS-Rosemary K. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WILLIAMS-Margaret Morrill, 77, died on November 21, 1999 at the Hilton Head Medical Center and Clinics, Hilton Head Island, SC. A life long resident of Bronxville until 1981, she was active in a variety of social, civic and charitable organizations, including Planned Parenthood of Westchest
 Bethel Leslie, a lifelong presence onstage and on television whose final Broadway performance earned her a Tony nomination, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was cancer, said Leslie McCullough Jeffries, her daughter. The daughter of a lawyer and 
 DAWSON-Trudy. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourn the loss of our beloved colleague and friend Trudy Dawson, Associate Director of Marketing and Booking at Lincoln Center. Trudy was an invaluable partner to the Chamber Music Society
 KAUFMAN-Rita. The Kaufman, Lindenbaum, Newman, and Hurwich families mourn the passing of Rita Kaufman. Loving wife of the late Benjamin Kaufman. Cherished mother of the late Judith (and Baruch Hurwich), Gerald (and Carol Kaufman), Belda (and Marcel Lindenbaum) and Carol (and Melvin Newman).
 KOOB-Julia Ashley (Nee Shanet). At age 85. As Julia Ashley she taught English at Woodrow Wilson Vocational High School, Erasmus High School, High School of Art and Design. A bright and warm loving person. She touched the minds and hearts of all who knew her. She was the wife of Harry, the m
 MENZER-Ruth L. Beloved wife of the late Jesse. Adored mother of Susan Levin and Dr. Lawrence Menzer. Cherished grandmother of Wendy and Zachary Menzer and Jonathan Levin. Services Tuesday, 12 Noon at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. MENZER-Ruth. We 
 ROSNER--Mae. On November 29, 1999. Predeceased by her siblings Rose Amster, Harry and Moe. Dear aunt of Joyce Mace, Richard Amster and David Rosner.       
 WARREN-William S. On behalf of the trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts, we send our heartfelt condolences to our beloved trustee Nani Warren for the tragic death of her son, William S. Warren, and her grandchildren Jack, Will and Rob. Robert Meltzer, Chairman Jan Mayer, Pr
 Regina Shoolman Slatkin, a dealer in old master drawings and a writer and specialist on the 18th-century French painter Francois Boucher, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and had homes in Manhattan, Essex, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. Born in wha
