 Judith F. Albert, a toy designer whose credits include the redesign of the Cabbage Patch doll for the mass market as well as other commercially successful dolls, died July 20 from breast cancer at her home in Mill Neck, N.Y. She was 59 years old. Her vinyl recast of the formerly all
 Lillian Hoban, who illustrated or wrote more than 100 children's books, including those featuring a badger named Frances and a chimpanzee named Arthur, died on July 17 at New York and Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan and in Wilton, Conn. The caus
 Shari Lewis, who used her estimable skills as a ventriloquist and puppeteer to win 12 Emmy Awards and the hearts of parents and their children for four decades with a woolly hand puppet named Lamb Chop, died on Sunday at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 65 and lived in Be
 Jean Fair Mitchell, a violin-playing, jig-dancing Scottish-born educator who guided the venerable Brearley School for girls from the white-glove 1940's through the armband 1960's without missing a beat, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 88 and had bee
 Phyllis Deveneau Michelfelder, who devoted her life to the rehabilitation of women with the alcohol and drug problems that she had overcome, died on July 18 at Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. She was 76 and lived in nearby Gulfstream. The cause was heart failure af
 Dorothy Carnegie Rivkin, an author and instructor who developed the Dale Carnegie Training company into a worldwide operation, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 85 and lived in Forest Hills Gardens, Queens. Mrs. Carnegie Rivkin, a native of Tulsa, Okla., was chairwoman 
 Elizabeth Karlin, a Wisconsin doctor, advocate of women's rights and head of a clinic in Madison that was a target of abortion foes, died on July 27 at her home in nearby Arena. She was 54. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed a few months ago, her family said. A native New
 Rose Blumkin, who founded the Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1937, helped her son and grandchildren build it into the nation's largest home furnishings store and continued selling carpet there well past her 100th birthday, died on Friday in Omaha. She was 104. Mrs. B, as she was fondly 
 Anna Jane Harrison, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Mount Holyoke College and the first woman to be president of the 150,000-member American Chemical Society, died on Aug. 8 at Holyoke Hospital. She was 85 and lived in nearby South Hadley, Mass. The cause was a stroke, the col
 Aline Mosby, a former correspondent for United Press International who reported from Hollywood, Paris, Beijing and points between for more than 50 years, died on Aug. 7 at Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. She was 76 and had moved from Europe to the Silvergate retirement community
 Dorothy West, ''the Kid'' of the  Harlem Renaissance circle of writers and artists in the 1920's who was rediscovered seven decades later when her novel ''The Wedding'' was published and became a best-seller,  died on Sunday night at New England Medical Center in Boston. She was 91 and a lo
 Claire M. Smith, a literary agent and a former president of Harold Ober Associates, a Manhattan literary agency, died on Saturday at her home in South Prospect Park, Brooklyn. She was 64. The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the agency said. Mrs. Smith, whose clients
 Corinne Greenberg Levin, an advocate for children and the director of the independent Teacher Center in New Haven since its founding 27 years ago, died on July 27 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. A New Haven resident, she was 68. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed in Sep
 Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming 
 Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philad
 The Mexican writer Elena Garro, whose novels, plays and stories exploring the clash between illusion and reality in Latin America made her one of Mexico's most important literary figures behind her former husband, Octavio Paz, died on Saturday at  Cuernavaca Hospital, south of Mexico City. 
 Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, d
 Dorothy Manners Haskell, who became the Hollywood columnist for the Hearst Corporation after 30 years as the assistant to its syndicated columnist Louella Parsons, died on Tuesday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 95. Writing under the name Dorothy Manners, she took over w
 Protima Gauri Bedi, a dancer and actress and the founder of the Nrityagram ensemble and school, which sought to preserve elements of Indian classical dance, died on Aug. 19 in a Himalayan mountain village 200 miles east of New Delhi. Ms. Bedi was 49 and lived just outside of Bangalore, in s
