 Hermine Braunsteiner Ryan was a Queens homemaker in 1964 when The New York Times revealed her notorious past as a vicious Nazi death camp guard. Nearly a decade later, she became the first United States citizen to be extradited for war crimes. She was sent to West Germany, where she
 Katharine Sergava, a dancer and actress who portrayed Laurey in Agnes de Mille's dream ballet in the original Broadway production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 26 at her home in Manhattan. She was 95 or 96. Her death was reported yesterday by a longtime friend, Ann Berlin. An erron
 Constance L. Hays, a reporter for The New York Times for nearly two decades, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 44 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, her husband, John Hays, said. Ms. Hays, who joined The Times in 1986, covered business news 
 Atsuko Tanaka, one of Japan's most important avant-garde artists, died on Dec. 3 at a hospital near her home in Nara, Japan. She was 73. The cause was pneumonia, said Midori Nishizawa of the Paula Cooper Gallery, which represents her work in New York. Ms. Tanaka had been hospitalize
 Débora Arango, a prolific artist who at first repelled socially conservative Colombia with stark paintings of nudes and social conflict but who was later celebrated as one of the country's most inventive, daring artists, died on Dec. 4 at her rambling colonial home outside Medellín. She w
 Leona Nevler, a prominent book editor who 50 years ago helped secure the publication of a first novel set in an imaginary town called Peyton Place, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 79 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. The cause was a pulmona
 Margretta Madden Styles, a nursing educator who conceived and helped establish precise national standards for certifying nurses in pediatrics, cardiology and other medical specialties, died on Nov. 20 at her home in Clearwater, Fla. She was 75. The cause was colon cancer, her family
 Mary Aiken Littauer, whose love affair with horses began with a childhood pony, blossomed with her marriage to an officer in the cavalry of Czar Nicholas II, and flowered famously when she became a leading expert on horses of ancient times, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Syosset, N.Y. She wa
 Margaret Hodges, who filled bookshelves with retold legends and other books for young readers and with the awards she received for them, died on Tuesday at her home in Verona, Pa. She was 94. Her death was announced by her son Arthur C. Hodges, who said two more of her books were to
 Selma Jeanne Cohen, a historian, editor and teacher who devoted her career to proclaiming dance an art worthy of the same scholarly respect traditionally awarded to painting, music and literature, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 85. The cause was complicatio
 Constance Keene, a pianist and teacher whose recordings of the Romantic keyboard repertory were highly regarded, died on Dec. 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 84, and lived in Manhattan. Her death was announced by Debra Kinzler, the spokeswoman for the Manhattan School of Music, w
 Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan
 Rona Jaffe, the preternaturally youthful writer whose 1958 novel ''The Best of Everything'' told the melodramatic story of four nubile, cashmere-sweatered career girls torn between storybook romance and cutthroat corporate Manhattan, died yesterday at University College Hospital in London, 
