 Octavia E. Butler, an internationally acclaimed science fiction writer whose evocative, often troubling, novels explore far-reaching issues of race, sex, power and, ultimately, what it means to be human, died on Friday after a fall near her home in Lake Forest Park, Wash. She was 58.       
 BLECHNER - Hannah. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel records with sorrow the passing of Hannah Blechner, beloved wife of Norbert Blechner, of blessed memory. The Blechner College of Judaic Studies proudly bears their name dispatching hundreds of ambassadors of Jewish knowledge and secu
 GRUSS--Esther. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our cherished benefactor, Judy Tuchman. To Judy, Morris, and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. Her memory is a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Mart
 HERSHENSON--Rose. The City University of New York mourns the loss of Rose Hershenson, mother of our esteemed colleague, Jay Hershenson, Vice Chancellor and Secretary of the Board. She was a lifelong New Yorker, Hunter College alumna, who petitioned for the founding of the Louis Armstrong Sc
 KAUFMAN--Dr. Carol Fuchs, 68, lived actively and fully with her husband, family, and friends, and fought ALS fiercely for five years until her passing on February 27, 2006. Born December 12, 1937, in the Bronx to the late Eva and Sam Fuchs, Carol relocated with her family to Kinston, NC whe
 KRANT--Miriam Saul, 78. National Center for Jewish Film mourns the passing of our cofounder and associate director of 30 years. With unstinting dedication she helped preserve the visual record of the Jewish people. Remembrances to Miriam Krant Fund, NCJF, Brandeis Univ, MS053, Waltham, MA 0
 KRAUT--Iris. The Board of Governors and members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Iris Kraut. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Aaron and family. Mark Kirschner, President       
 LAHULLIER - Denise. Friends and colleagues of the American Mental Health Foundation mourn the passing of Denise LaHullier on February 22, 2006. For many years an officer of the Foundation, Miss LaHullier contributed to the work and publications of the late Dr. Stefan de Schill, Foundation d
 LEIGH--Jane Horn. Died peacefully on February 22, 2006 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of Samuel Leigh, devoted mother of Steven Horn Leigh and Nancy Leigh. Grandmother of Cassandra ''Casey,'' Jordan and Brian Leigh. Sister of Sola Lee Kaye of NYC. She was fiercely devoted to family, a
 MACE--Joyce Amster, 79. Of Aptos, CA., formerly of Rockville Centre, N.Y., died peacefully at her home on February 28, 2006. Loving and cherished wife of David Mace. Devoted and adored mother of Carol and Jon Mace. Loving grandmother of Harrison, Rebecca, Jackson and Jamie Mace, and David &
 NOETHER - Hannah. We mourn the loss of a cherished friend. For 25 years Mrs. Noether expertly arranged the program for our Annual Concert and brought the majesty of classical music to New York. Blessed with an uncanny ability to recognize upand-coming talent, she featured virtuosos who were
 SEIF--Molly Feller. February 27 in her 100th year peacefully at home, widow of Joseph B. Seif. Surviving are sister Gertrude Arkin, daughters Joan Seif and Sharon Silberfarb; grandsons Uriel, Daniel and Michael Levi, Jacob and Joseph Silberfarb, and nine great-grandchildren. Funeral noon to
 STOLLS--Shirley. In her 82nd year. Beloved mother of Daniel and Michele. Adoring grandmother of India. We will miss her generosity, style and humor.       
 STRONG--Diane Shalet. On February 23, 2006 in Palm Springs. Founder of the Actors and Writers Lab in Manhattan, she was a charter member of the Lincoln Center Repertory Theatre under the direction of Robert Whitehead and Elia Kazan. She taught acting at UCLA and was a teaching associate of 
 NOBEL--Judith/. Beloved wife of Rabbi Israel, Adored mother of Carole, Debora (Elliot) and the late Susan, Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Her wisdom and goodness will live on in our hearts.       
 DALVITO--Anne Numrich, a long time resident of Mamaroneck, passed away March 1, 2006 at her home after a long battle with cancer, she was 75. Born October 26, 1930 in Lancaster, PA, she was the daughter of the late Miriam Book Numrich and George Robert Numrich. She was the sister of the lat
 DENT -- Rosemary ''Posy'' Romeyn of Charlottesville, VA. died Monday, February 27, 2006 at her residence. A memorial service will be held 4:00 PM Friday, March 3, 2006 at St. Paul's Church, Ivy, VA.       
 JONES -- Alberta Conway Jones. Age 87, passed away on February 27, 2006, at her Stamford home. Beloved wife of the late Edwin M. Jones. Cherished sister of Lois Conway Crabill of Rego Park, NY, and the late Elaine C. McLaughlin and Hewitt Conway. Loving mother of Michele Delmhorst of Stonin
 MILNE--Margery Greene, 94. Internationally known naturalist, died peacefully in her Durham, NH, home February 28, 2006. She was the town's Swan Keeper. A spring memorial service is planned.       
 MORPHOS--Diane Belogianis. Beloved wife of the late Panos Paul Morphos & sister of the late William D. Belroy. Devoted mother of Paul Morphos and Evangeline Morphos. Born in Chicago, IL. in 1913, she graduated from the University of Chicago with a BA and an MA and taught there until her mar
 SCHAUBER--Shirley. Died February 23. She was loved and will be missed and mourned by her daughter Daphna Clifford and by her brother-in-law Edgar Schauber and her many, many friends.       
 DOLNY-LIPSY--Denyse. It is with profound sadness that the Heschel School community mourns the untimely passing of Denyse, wife of Mark Lipsy, mother of Talia and our student Boaz, after a valiant struggle with her illness. May this brave, vibrant, sensitive, caring woman rest in peace. Our 
 PHILLIPS BEIRNE--Carol. Clinique Laboratories LLC and The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc., mourn the passing of Carol Phillips Beirne, Clinique's Founder and former Chairman, on March 1, 2006. Launched in 1968, Clinique became the first beauty brand to be guided by a dermatologist, as well as 
 BERGER--Sylvia Josephs. A woman of extraordinary intelligence and taste: character and grace. She had a life long passion for languages, learning and travel. With all her varied interests, her family always came first. We who knew you well-miss your counsel and compassion. Love, Joyce      
 MARKS -- Elaine Miller. March 2, 2005. One more walk around the garden, One more stroll along the shore, One more memory we can dream of her before we dream no more. And One more time perhaps the dawn will wait and One more prayer it's not too late to gather one more rose and kiss goodbye b
 AUSTRIAN--Beatrice L, 97. On March 2, 2006. Wife of the late Ray Austrian, mother of Caryl and James (Linda). Grandmother of Jan, John and James (Lesley Johnson) Levinson, Julie Spund, Cynthia (John) Weber and Robert (Jeanne) Austrian. Great-grandmother of Katherine, Claire and Blake Levins
 BLUESTONE -- Rose (Rose Blue). Suddenly on March 2, 2006. Beloved daughter of the late Irving and Frieda. Renowned author of over 150 books for children. She will be missed and mourned by her cousins and many friends.       
 CORRIGAN--Consuelo Reyes. Of Bradenton, FL, age 76, died on February 28, 2006 of a heart attack. Known as Connie Reyes to her many friends in the art world. Longtime partner of the late sculptor Ronald Bladen. Loving mother of the late Paul and Ethan Corrigan, loving aunt of Trina Reyes and
 FREEDBERG--Irene Lisman, 72. Of NYC and Holderness, NH, formerly of Newton, MA. Wife for 51 years of the late Irwin M. Freedberg. Father of Marjorie F. Bogdanow and her husband Michael of Lexington, MA, Kenneth A. and his wife Joyce Jen of Weston, MA, and Deborah A. and her husband William 
 KREMSDORF -- Sylvia B., (nee Baum). Beloved wife of Julian. Devoted and adored mother of Arlene Thomashow, Joel and Nancy Kremsdorf and Wendy Kremsdorf. Loving grandmother of Debra Thomashow and Shana Thomashow. Loving sister of Seymour Baum. Funeral at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W 76 S
 MARIN--Shiela. Of Woodmere, L.I. passed away on March 1, 2006. Devoted wife of Murray, and adored mother of Reina, Michael, and Morisa. Beloved grandmother of Rachel, Elissa, Alan, Jordan, Jason, Jacqueline, Benjamin, Laurence and Gregory. Cherished mother-inlaw of Emilio, Marla and Gene. D
 PARKER--Shirley Margolin. We extend sincerest condolences to the Parker family: Jeff and Naava, Drew and Careena, Michael and Toby, Keith and Allison, Julie, Mrs. Razelle Margolin Wender and 17 beloved grandchildren, all of whom cherished and looked up to this Grand Dame of Memphis. Deeply 
 WESTIN--Sandra. Peacefully at Cabrini Hospice on March 1, 2006, surrounded by her loving, supportive, dedicated friends, whose tender nurturing greatly enriched her final days. Memorial service 1 PM Thursday March 9, 2006, All Souls' Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue (80th St), NYC. C
 ABRAMS NEHEMIAH -Elaine. Wife of the late Milton Nehemiah. Soulmate to her cherished Sidney Abrams. Loving mother of Michael and Roberta Abrams, Linda and Jerry Gershon, and Mark Abrams. Adored Nana to Gary and Jill, David and Nicole, Laurie and Mike, Seth, Jeffrey, Jason and Kelli. Proud g
 Barbara Guest, a prominent modernist poet who was the only woman to be a member of the famed New York School of poets of the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Feb. 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 85. Ms. Guest, who had lived in Berkeley for the last decade, formerly resided in Manhattan an
 FREEDBERG--Irene Lisman, 72. Of NYC and Holderness, NH, formerly of Newton, MA. Wife for 51 years of the late Irwin M. Freedberg. Mother of Marjorie F. Bogdanow and her husband Michael of Lexington, MA, Kenneth A. and his wife Joyce Jen of Weston, MA, and Deborah A. and her husband William 
 MacCORMICK--Monica. On March 2, 2006. Beloved wife of Alexander M.C. MacCormick, loving mother of Alexander C. and Fiona L. MacCormick. Beloved Farmor of Molly & Alex. Devoted sister of Evelyn DiBona. Her spark and enthusiasm for life, family and friends will be missed greatly by all. Funer
 McELWAIN--Ruth Van Deventer Jones, Mar. 2, 1924-Dec. 8, 2005, daughter of the late Mr. & Mrs. Nicholas Ridgely Jones of NYC and Glen Cove. As Beverly Gray, she performed as a vocalist in numerous nightclubs and later cofounded the Broward women's Chorus in Florida. A generous supporter of a
 AUSTRIAN--Beatrice L, 97. On March 2, 2006. Wife of the late Ray Austrian, mother of Caryl and James (Linda). Grandmother of Jan, John and James (Lesley Johnson) Levinson, Julie Spund, Cynthia (John) Weber and Robert (Jeanne) Austrian. Great-grandmother of Katherine, Claire and Blake Levins
 BLACK - Minna. Age 91. Passed away February 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sanford Black. She will be missed by her daughter Linda Brill, grandchildren, greatgrandchildren, extended family and friends.       
 BLUMENREICH - Mary. Mother of Tracey Zabar, William and Alan. Nana of Benjamin, Daniel, Michael, William, Taylor, Billy, Matthew, John. She loved her family, her dogs, her gardens, her paintings, and her beloved Red Sox. Sweet dreams, Nana.       
 CLARKE--Evelyn A., age 84, died peacefully in the early morning of February 21. Born in East Orange, NJ on October 9, 1921, she was the oldest child of Evelyn Mansfield Clarke and Allen Hillyer Clarke. Raised in Summit, NJ, she attended the Kent Place school where she distinguished herself 
 FREEDBERG--Irene. Sutton Place Synagogue expresses deep sorrow on the passing of our esteemed Vice President and benefactor. Her loss is immeasurable to our congregation, her many friends and all who knew and loved her. Heartfelt condolences to her adoring children and grandchildren. Allan 
 KEMPNER - Sheila. Died peacefully at home on March 1, 2006 at the age of 79, surrounded by family. Her life was one to emulate and celebrate. Join us for a Memorial on Thursday, March 9, 5:307:30, the W Hotel, 201 Park Avenue South at 17th Street.       
 KOHUT--Susanne A., 90. Passed away peacefully March 3, 2006, surrounded by loving family and devoted caregivers. Her husband, Anthony Kohut, predeceased her in 1984. A graduate of Mt. Saint Vincent and Fordham Graduate School of Social Work, she spent her half-century career devoted to peop
 LEIGH--Jane Horn. Died peacefully on February 22, 2006 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of Samuel Leigh, devoted mother of Steven Horn Leigh and Nancy Leigh. Grandmother of Cassandra ''Casey,'' Jordan and Brian Leigh. Sister of Sola Lee Kaye of NYC. She was fiercely devoted to family, a
 MacCORMICK--Monica. On March 2, 2006. Beloved wife of Alexander M.C. MacCormick, loving mother of Alexander C. and Fiona L. MacCormick. Beloved Farmor of Molly & Alex. Devoted sister of Evelyn DiBona. Her spark and enthusiasm for life, family and friends will be missed greatly by all. Funer
 MARTIN--Myrna. Died March 2, 2006 after a long illness. Loving and beloved wife of Harold Martin. Mother of Jana and Nancy. Born January 30, 1933. She was the Director of Education of MOMA, Director of Volunteer Programs at the New York Public Library, an art teacher and a talented abstract
 MUCCIA--Anna. Died peacefully in Vero Beach, FL on February 11, 2006. Anna was born in NYC on February 22, 1910. Beloved wife of the late Carrol A. Muccia. She is survived by her devoted children, Carrol A. Muccia Jr., Diana Muccia and Peter Muccia. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth Pyle, Tim
 O'NEIL--Ellen Coakley (Tish), 7. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, on March 16, 1927, passed away unexpectedly Monday, February 27, 2006. Known lovingly as Mom, Grandma, T.C. and Tish, she is survived by her ten children, twentythree grandchildren and her sister, Sister Margaret Coakley, RSCJ. Memor
 PALMER--Julia Reed, 90. Of New York City and Mt. Desert, Maine, on February 25, 2006, after a long life and a brief illness. Wife of the late Arthur E. Palmer, Jr. Beloved mother of Constance Hildesley, Lansing Palmer, Stewart Palmer and the late Susan Palmer, all of New York City. Devoted 
 WARFIELD--Jean, Ph.D., noted scenic artist-designer and ballad-opera composer, died February 15, 2006, at Cabrini Hospice. She leaves two sisters, a number of other relatives, friends and colleagues here and abroad.       
 WESTIN--Sandra. Peacefully at Cabrini Hospice on March 1, 2006, surrounded by her loving, supportive, dedicated friends, whose tender nurturing greatly enriched her final days. Memorial service 1 PM Thursday March 9, 2006, All Souls' Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue (80th St), NYC. C
 ZEITLIN--Beatrice, nee Kotz. Age 84, passed away on February 25, 2006 after a long illness; beloved wife of the late Wolf Zeitlin; mother of Cantor Oreen Zeitlin and Dr. Earl (Susan) Zeitlin; dear grandmother of Dr. Gary and Alan Zeitlin. Contributions in her name to The Ark, 6450 N. Califo
 WAX--Ethel Oshinsky. Our ''SWEETIE'' lives on in our hearts and minds everyday. We miss her so. Linda and Barbara       
 Machteld J. Mellink, an archaeologist and authority on ancient sites in Turkey, who became a forceful voice for ending the international trafficking of looted antiquities, died on Feb. 23 in an assisted-living home in Haverford, Pa. She was 88. Dr. Mellink's death was announced by B
 BLACK - Minna. Age 91. Passed away February 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sanford Black. She will be missed by her daughter Linda Brill, grandchildren, greatgrandchildren, extended family and friends.       
 DAVIS--Tilly. On March 1, 2006, died peacefully at home. Widely loved, she will be greatly missed. A memorial service will be planned for a later date. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her memory to Bailey House, Inc, 275 7th Ave, NY, NY 10001, Attn: John Murphy.       
 GOLD--Hilarie Beth (Imber). After a most courageous battle, has left us in her 50th year. She blessed us with her loving, caring and feisty personality. Hilarie has been a very special daughter, sister, wife, mother, niece, cousin, aunt and friend to all. She brought into our lives her wond
 HERTZ--Frances. On March 3rd, 2006. Survived by her brother Rudolph Wohlitka, nieces Gloria Shulz and Joan Capili and step-son Neil. Services Monday, 12:30 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 KLEIN - Florence, 101, passed away peacefully on March 6th, 2006. Devoted wife to Gerald Radlauer (deceased) and Harold Klein (deceased). Loving mother of Dr. Edwin (Silvia-deceased) Radlauer (Jane Ritter); Dr. Charles Radlauer (Nancy Powell); Arthur Klein (Barbara); David Klein (Gail). Ado
 KOHUT--Susanne A., 90. Passed away peacefully March 3, 2006, surrounded by loving family and devoted caregivers. Her husband, Anthony Kohut, predeceased her in 1984. A graduate of Mt. Saint Vincent and Fordham Graduate School of Social Work, she spent her half-century career devoted to peop
 MARTIN--Myrna. Died March 2, 2006 after a long illness. Loving and beloved wife of Harold Martin. Mother of Jana and Nancy. Born January 30, 1933. She was the Director of Education of MOMA, Director of Volunteer Programs at the New York Public Library, an art teacher and a talented abstract
 UJHELY--Gertrud B., Ph.D., R.N. On March 4th, 2006, at the age of 83. She was severly handicapped by a respiratory collapse following a fall at home. Dr. Ujhely was born in Vienna, Austria. A jewish girl of sixteen, she was at the opera when the German army marched in and the Nazi era began
 ABRAMSON--Irene E. (nee Schaffel). Passed away on Sunday, March, 4, 2006, after fighting cancer for the past 24 years. Irene was born and lived in Manhattan until 1979, when she moved to Florida, where she became a permanent resident. Her parents, Bernard and Claire Schaffel predeceased her
 BASTONE--Lorraine. Cherished friend, long time volunteer--the American Cancer Society, Brooklyn office, mourns the passing of a friend who lifted the spirits of everyone she met and offers warm condolences to her family and wide circle of beloved friends.       
 LEADER--Ruby Felt, 92. Wife of the late Dr. Sidney D. Leader, died peacefully on Sunday, March 5. Mother of Steven and his wife Barbara, and the late Aviva (Isobel) Kirsch. Devoted grandmother to Deborah Beth, Gabrielle, Jaclyn, and Allison, and great-grandmother to Genevieve Spring and Mas
 LESLIE--Rosalind, 76. Of Stratford, CT., on March 4, 2006 in Norwalk, CT. after a long courageous fight with Scleraderma. Wife of the late Joseph Leslie, and beloved mother of Fern Perlman Schwartz, Mindy Wallach and Susan Greisman. Mrs. Leslie graduated from Herbert Lehman College, Summa C
 LEWIS--Marilyn Loretta. After making a courageous battle against cancer Marilyn Loretta Lewis died on March 5, 2006 at Lawrence Hospital. She was a beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Bernard Lewis, her two children, Lawrence Lewis and Elizabeth
 QUINTANA--Edith Wesson Seyburn. Of East Norwich, NY, daughter of the late Wesson Seyburn and Winifred Dodge Seyburn of Detroit, died on March 4 in Rancho Mirage, CA. Former wife of the late Manuel I. Quintana; she is survived by and was the loving mother of Manuel H. Quintana, Brooklyn, NY,
 KALB - KOMARIN - Sharon. Age 50, of Flanders, New Jersey passed away on March 6, 2006. Beloved wife of Gary Komarin. Loving mother of Jenna Heller Komarin, Zoe Peyton Komarin and Wyatt Lowell Komarin. Devoted daughter of Judy and Morton Kalb. Dear daughter-in-law of Frances Komarin. Adored 
 Dana Reeve, who devoted herself to the care of her paralyzed husband, the actor Christopher Reeve, and became a forceful advocate for research into spinal cord injuries, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 44 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y., in West
 GOLDMAN--Ruth. Died in Boynton Beach, FL. on March 7, 2006. Beloved wife of Bert. Devoted mother of Arin Goldman, Ellen and Roger Roisman and Mindy and David Goldman. Adored grandmother of Carly and Adam Rappaport, Rachael Roisman and Danielle, Chelsea and Adam Goldman. She was very much lo
 KOEVESDI--Reni, 84. Of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of N. Miami Beach. Predeceased by her husband Dr. Alexander. Beloved mother of Eva Baer, loving grandchildren Michelle and Marc, and Debbie and Ricky, cherished greatgrandchildren Sam, Noah, Jake, Casey and Corey. Services are today, 10:30AM at 
 LEADER--Ruby. The Educational Alliance Board of Trustees and staff are saddened by the passing of Ruby Leader. Ruby was an important supporter of our Older Adult Services in memory of her daughter, the late Aviva (Isobel Kirsch). We extend our sincere condolences to her children, Steven and
 MAROTTA--Jill M., 52. Passed away peacefully at home on March 4, 2006. Survived by her husband Paul, son Paul Laurence (Dawn), grandsons Donovan and Dylan, brothers Jan (Vicki) and Terry (Della) and sister Gretchen (George), who love her dearly, she will be missed every day as a person who 
 MOORE--Edith McKnight. Of Hobe Sound, Florida on February 27, 2006 in her 91st year, beloved wife of William H. Moore for 69 years and mother of Pamela Olyphant of Bozeman, Montana, William H. Moore III of Greenwich, Connecticut and Timothy Moore of Silves, Portugal, eleven grandchildren an
 REEVE--Dana. The Board of Directors and staff of the Christopher Reeve Foundation mourn the passing of our devoted Chair, Dana Reeve, beloved wife of the late Christopher, mother of Will and step-mother of Matthew and Alexandra. We are extremely saddened by the death of Dana Reeve, whose gr
 WEINER--Phyllis. Born August 14, 1917; died tragically March 6, 2006. Beloved wife of Max Weiner and the late Sidney Katz. Adored mother of Carol Katz and the late Fred Katz, loving mother-inlaw of Joan Katz Lesky and devoted grandmother of Seth and Sarah Katz. Caring stepmother of Hal and 
 ZUCKER--Marjorie B. Internationally known platelet physiologist died peacefully at her home, March 7. Author of many papers, co-author with Aaron Marcus, M.D. of a book on ''The Blood Platelet,'' one of the discoverers of the effect of aspirin on platelets, co-author with her husband Howard
 KALB - KOMARIN - Sharon. Age 50, of Flanders, New Jersey passed away on March 6, 2006. Beloved wife of Gary Komarin. Loving mother of Jenna Heller Komarin, Zoe Peyton Komarin and Wyatt Lowell Komarin. Devoted daughter of Judy and Morton Kalb. Dear daughter-in-law of Frances Komarin. Adored 
 GARABEDIAN--Claire, a resident of Larchmont, died at White Plains Hospital on March 7, 2006 following her heroic battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Peter. Loving mother of Jennifer and David. Devoted daughter of Simon and the late Esther Dreilinger. Dear sister of Phyllis Sloate. Funeral S
 GEVALT--Sally Young, 85. Died March 8 at Faulkner Hospital in Boston with her sons present. Mrs. Gevalt recently moved to Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass., after residing for more than 50 years in Lakeville, Conn. She was predeceased by her husand, Dr. Frederick C. Gevalt, who practiced 
 GOLDMAN--Ruth. Died in Boynton Beach, FL. on March 7, 2006. Beloved wife of Bert. Devoted mother of Arin Goldman, Ellen and Roger Roisman and Mindy and David Goldman. Adored grandmother of Carly and Adam Rappaport, Rachael Roisman and Danielle, Chelsea and Adam Goldman. She was very much lo
 LEEDS--Beatrice G. (nee Bette Gordon). On March 7. Beloved wife of Norman. Most amazing mother and friend of Frederic G. Leeds and Patrice and Steve Leeds Richman. Cherished grandmother of Jessica and Hagan. Loving sister, aunt and friend. A celebration of her life will take place at Crestw
 MORFIT--Suzanne T. Beloved friend, colleague, teacher, passed away in her sleep March 5, 2006. She grew up in Hartsdale, NY and Green Village, NJ. Educated at Seton Hall University and Rutgers University, she served the Bellmore-Merrick Long Island School System for 30 years as a social wor
 SHORENSTEIN--Florence Rich. A model of goodness and beauty who will be sorely missed by her family and friends. Beloved wife of the late Ben. Devoted mother of the late Louis. Survived by Stuart & Janice, granddaughter, Marissa and brother Herbert Rich. Services Friday 11:15 AM, at ''The Ri
 KALB - KOMARIN - Sharon. With deepest sorrow we mourn the passing of this blue-eyed wonder, mother of Jenna, Zoe, and Wyatt. Wife of Gary, daughter of Judy and Morty Kalb, sister of Tom Kalb and Laurie Kalb Kaswiner, and daughter-inlaw of Francie Komarin. Sharon had a deep appreciation for 
 SILVERBLATT--Esther K. on February 28, 2006 in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Jack Silverblatt, cherished mother, grandmother and great grandmother. A revered teacher, loved by all.       
 DORELIS--Vivian. March 9, 2006. In memory of the ''Countess from The Bronx'' on her birthday, with love from her longtime friend Christie       
 LEEDS--Beatrice G. (nee Bette Gordon). On March 7. Beloved wife of Norman. Most amazing mother and friend of Frederic G. Leeds and Patrice and Steve Leeds Richman. Cherished grandmother of Jessica and Hagan. Loving sister, aunt and friend. A celebration of her life will take place at Crestw
 MANNARELLI--Catherine. She lit up our Purim Festivals with professional talent and authority. To her choosen Judaism she brought a faith so profound some of us were prompted to examine our own. Our hearts go out to her family especially her beautiful little Alanna. West End Synagogue A Reco
 Anna Moffo, an American soprano who was beloved for her rosy voice, dramatic vulnerability and exceptional beauty, died on Thursday night at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan. She died of a stroke after grappling with complications of brea
 ALTSTEIN--Sadie Machanofsky, 93. Wife of the late Louis, mother of Howard (Helene), Joel (Nan) & Michael (Janet). Grandmother to Sam (Lisa), Rachel (Andy), Richard, and Lily. Great grandmother to Audrey, Lois, Minna, Jacob and Isaac. Like the candles that lit her Shabbat table each week, he
 BOORSTEIN - Maxine. Be loved wife of Alan. Devoted mother of Jonathan. Loving daughter of Selma Odze. Dear sister of Warren Odze. Adored sister-in-law of Martin, Raymond and Richard. Dear aunt and great-aunt. Will be missed by all who knew her. Services Sunday 10AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-0
 CROMBIE -- Frances (nee O'Brien), born October 13th, 1914 in Norfolk, CT, died March 9th, 2006 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, CT. She was the loving wife of the late David J. Crombie, former TWA executive. Survived by sons, David A. of New Haven, CT, Michael F. of Greensboro, NC, Timot
 ISEMAN--Jay. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP express profound sorrow at the death on March 9th of Jay Iseman, beloved wife of our former partner and of counsel, Joseph S. Iseman. We express our deepest sympathies to her descende
 MOFFO--Anna. The management and staff of Sony BMG Masterworks join the family, friends and admirers of the great American soprano, Anna Moffo in mourning her passing. Ms. Moffo was one of the most distinctive and beautiful singers of her time. She made her greatest recordings for RCA Red Se
 REEVE--Dana. The Williamstown Theatre Festival Board and Staff offer our condolences and sympathies to the Reeve and Morosini families for the untimely loss of their beautiful Dana. It is a great loss to the WTF family. Her generous and creative spirit will be remembered at the Festival.   
 ALDERDICE--Kay. We mourn the passing of Kay Alderdice on March 8, 2006 in London, England. She was a talented, caring educator, valued colleague and loyal friend. The world is poorer for her absence. Her Friends & Former Colleagues       
 BLAU--Gertrude. It is with deep sadness we mourn the passing of Gertrude Blau at the age of 97. Married for over 70 years to the late Louis Blau. Devoted mother of Yosef, Norman and Andrea. Loving grandmother of five and great-grandmother of 12. She will be missed by us all.       
 BOORSTEIN - Maxine. Be loved wife of Alan. Devoted mother of Jonathan. Loving daughter of Selma Odze. Dear sister of Warren Odze. Adored sister-in-law of Martin, Raymond and Richard. Dear aunt and great-aunt. Will be missed by all who knew her. Services Sunday 10AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-0
 COHAN -- Blanche Billow. March 10, 2006, two days after her 93rd birthday. She stayed for the party and now has joined her beloved husband Leo. Dear sister of Selma and Muriel. Loving mother of Mike and Carol, Susan and Ken, grandmother of Edward and Patrice, Peter and Melissa, Sandy and Ro
 EMMET--Diana L., 40, on March 8th, 2006. Born in Paris, France and a longtime New Yorker. A graduate of the Professional Children's School, Ms. Emmet had been a competitive figure skater and was until recently a skating coach at Wollman Rink. Diana was also a well-loved speaker for Love Hea
 GERVASIO--Mildred Christine passed into God's keeping on February 13, 2006. She was the beloved aunt of Edward, Donald and Andrew Reuss and their families. Mildred leaves sisters-in-law Lydia Gervasio and Rita Ciralli, nephew Joseph Schuder and wife, Danielle Leach and husband, Noel Di Nome
 GEVALT--Sally Young, 85. Died March 8 at Faulkner Hospital in Boston with her sons present. Mrs. Gevalt recently moved to Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass., after residing for more than 50 years in Lakeville, Conn. She was predeceased by her husand, Dr. Frederick C. Gevalt, who practiced 
 GORMAN--Althea Robinson Richards. Of Sewickley, PA. and Delray, FL died peacefully at her home on March 5, 2006. Wife of the late C. Snowdon Richards & the late Paul A. Gorman. She was predeceased by three of her four children and her parents William Christopher Robinson and Mary Laughlin R
 ISEMAN--Jay. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP express profound sorrow at the death on March 9th of Jay Iseman, beloved wife of our former partner and of counsel, Joseph S. Iseman. We express our deepest sympathies to her descende
 LEEDS--Susan. Died March 10, 2006. An admirable talent for friendship, Susan lived life to its fullest. She leaves behind her adored husband Chris Chisholm and many heartbroken friends. Susan made me feel treasured. I loved her; she will live on in me. Sally Haver       
 LUBELL--Esther Florence. Died on March 8, 2006. Mrs. Lubell was a retired English teacher and is survived by her beloved daughter, Dr. Adele S. Lubell, and brother, Dr. Oscar Strongin. A memorial srvice will be held on Monday, March 13, at 9:30 AM, at the Woolworth Chapel at the Woodlawn Ce
 MOFFO--Anna. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of Anna Moffo, a cherished artist and beloved friend. In the 17 seasons she sang with the Met she became a favorite not only with audiences, but with all of those who worked with her and came to know her. Her legacy of memorable po
 REEVE--Dana. We deeply mourn the passing of Dana Reeve, namesake of our Caregivers Award which she presented annually to individuals who show selfless dedication to their loved ones as she did her husband. She has been a role model to all of us. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her son
 SHANGOLD--Doris. 94, of Austin, TX, passed away on Friday, March 10, 2006. Doris was very active in Temple Gates of Zion, Valley Stream, NY. She was a past President of the Sisterhood and very active in civic affairs. She was preceded in death by two husbands, Bernard Mayers and Jules Shang
 SOROKO--Rose Frank, on March 5, 2006, at 92. Beloved mother of Doris, Pearl, Susan and Jacqueline. Also survived by devoted brothers Jack and Leonard, seven adoring grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. Her sweetness will always be remembered. Predeceased by husband Mark D. Soroko. D
 STEEL--Ruth. Of Southampton, New York, died peacefully on March 6, 2006 during her 95th year. Ruth Steel, along with her beloved husband Arthur, who died 11 years earlier, was an active and concerned philanthropist, supporting a broad range of causes ranging from civil justice to museums an
 STRONG -- Mary Johnston (Sutherland) of Fox Hill Village, Westwood, MA, February 26 at age 82, after a brief illness. Survived by husband Robert Livingston Strong, son William Sutherland Strong, and grandchildren Mary and Robert, she will be sorely missed by them and by her many friends. Sh
 ZUCKER--Marjorie B. Internationally known platelet physiologist died peacefully at her home, March 7. Author of many papers, co-author with Aaron Marcus, M.D. of a book on ''The Blood Platelet,'' one of the discoverers of the effect of aspirin on platelets, co-author with her husband Howard
 BARTHOLOMEW--Patricia S. On March 10, 2006. Beloved wife of Geoffrey. Loving mother of Rebecca Soller and Rafe Bartholomew. Daughter of George and Patricia Procak, sister of Fran Noyes, Tina Tyler, Kate Douglas and Betsy Larkin. Professor Emeritus, Dr. Bartholomew was Chair of the Dept. of 
 RUSSELL-VANDER POEL-Wendy. A lifelong resident of Oyster Bay, Long Island, died peacefully at home on March 9, after a long illness. Mrs. Russell is survived by her daughters, Wendell Miller Steavenson of London, England, and Gretchen Miller Elkus of Ligonier, PA, six grandchildren, William
 KOCH--Lynn Hurwitz, Ph.D. Mommy, what can I say? I wish I could say something. You should be with me, reading articles bearing my byline. This was not supposed to happen. I want you to know that my soul aches and that my life will never be the same without you. I am lost and incomplete. You
 Anna Marly, who wrote the melody to the song that became the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II and whose whistling and singing on the radio were an inspiration to the anti-Nazi underground, died on Feb. 15 in her home in Palmer, Alaska. She was 88. Her death was confir
 COHAN -- Blanche Billow. March 10, 2006, two days after her 93rd birthday. She stayed for the party and now has joined her beloved husband Leo. Dear sister of Selma and Muriel. Loving mother of Mike and Carol, Susan and Ken, grandmother of Edward and Patrice, Peter and Melissa, Sandy and Ro
 DEEGAN--Jane Lucey at home in Providence, Rhode Island 10 March 2006. Partner and muse in the jewelry firm Jeff Deegan Designs with her husband. Born 14 July 1951 in Perth Amboy, New Jersey to the late James J. and Winifred Lucey, Providence resident since 1978; member of the Handicraft Clu
 EMMET--Diana L., 40, on March 8th, 2006. Born in Paris, France and a longtime New Yorker. A graduate of the Professional Children's School, Ms. Emmet had been a competitive figure skater and was until recently a skating coach at Wollman Rink. Diana was also a well-loved speaker for Love Hea
 HARRISON--Carole B. 79, of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Woodmere, NY, on March 12, 2006. Predeceased by her beloved Maxwell Harrison, M.D. Survived by her loving daughters, Holly Bregstein and Babette Basista, wonderful sons-in-law, Henry Bregstein and Michael Basista, adored and cherished gra
 MALVIN--Susan Yogman. 63, of Union, NJ, on March 11, after a long struggle with Crohn's disease. She was a devoted wife, sister, mother, daughter, teacher, dog lover and generous friend to all. Survived by her husband Dr. Philip Malvin of Union, her brother Dr. Michael Yogman of Cambridge, 
 MOFFO SARNOFF - Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr.
 MULDOON--Sister Catherine. Sister Catherine Muldoon, known in Religious life as Sr. Marian Catherine, beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Saturday, March 11, 2006. Recognized nationally as a prominent figure in nursing education and nursing service, Sis
 SKINNER - Susan. Passed Sunday, March 5, at age 53. A memorial service to be held Tuesday, March 14, at 5 pm, Our Lady of Good Counsel RC Church, 230 East 90 St, NYC. She is survived by her mother Coral Skinner Clarke, and three sisters, Angela, Helen and Margaret.       
 STREGER--Jeanette. A longtime resident of New Rochelle, passed away at home in White Plains, on Friday, March 10, 2006, at the age of 87. She was the devoted wife of the late David, loving mother of Ann Price (Fredric) and Ellen Steger, adoring grandmother of Joshua (Kimberly), Jeremy and M
 RUSSELL-VANDER POEL-Wendy. A lifelong resident of Oyster Bay, Long Island, died peacefully at home on March 9, after a long illness. Mrs. Russell is survived by her daughters, Wendell Miller Steavenson of London, England, and Gretchen Miller Elkus of Ligonier, PA, six grandchildren, William
 Maureen Stapleton, who created a gallery of pugnacious, sometimes profane but always vulnerable heroines on Broadway, in films and on television and who won an Academy Award for her fiery performance as the anarchist Emma Goldman in ''Reds,'' died yesterday at her home in Lenox, Mass. She w
 CARHART--Wendy. Died on Monday, March 13, at home in New York. Beloved daughter of Lucile and Amory S. Carhart, she is survived by her brother Amory Jr., her aunt Nancy H. Biddle and many cousins. A love of animals marked her life and she served for many years on the board of the ASPCA. Mem
 COHAN - Blanche. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime and cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children, Susan Gordon and Mike Dyer and their loved ones. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer,
 CORNELL--Inge. April 26, 1914--March 13, 2006. She will be greatly missed by all of her friends.       
 HYMAN--Helen Kandel, 85. Died at home in Westport, Ct. on March 6, surrounded by her children, grandchildren and adoring dog. She was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Jessie and Isaac Leon Kandel, and graduated from the Horace Mann School and Barnard College. Her professional career began
 KAZANTZIS--Mary. Beloved wife of George, loving mother, grandmother, sister and friend, passed away surrounded by her family's love. Services: March 15 at Annunciation Greek Church, 302 W. 91 St., 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Continuum Hospice Care, 1775 Broadway, N
 KENLER--Muriel died March 9, 2006, in New Jersey, of heart failure. She was born December 25, 1915, in New York. She was a graduate of Delphi University and Columbia University. She is survived by her companion of 37 years, Rafael Colon of New Jersey; her brother, Adrian Marcuse of Florida;
 KLAIMAN--Elsie, 97. Of Teaneck, NJ, formerly of Passaic and Verona, NJ, on March 12, 2006. Predeceased by her beloved husband Sidney. Devoted mother of Ronald (Iris) of NYC, and Howard (Sheila) of Fort Lee, NJ. Cherished grandmother of Alan of Fort Lee; Nancy of Morristown; Mark (Virginia) 
 MILLER--Joan. Age 66. Born in Brooklyn, a longtime resident of Puerto Rico died on March 12 two years after suffering a stroke. She was a tenured professor at the University of Puerto Rico in Cayey teaching and preparing students and teachers in special education. Joan was instrumental in c
 MOFFO SARNOFF - Anna. Age 73, died on March 9, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Robert Sarnoff. Loving stepmother of Rosita Sarnoff, Serena Benenson and Claudia Sarnoff. Grandmother of Adam, Toby and Felicia Benenson. Beloved sister of Nicholas Moffo, Jr.
 WALENSKY--Ruth. On March 12, 2006. Wife, mother, grandmother, teacher and student. Mourned by her beloved husband of over 60 years, Leonard, her children and grandchildren: Ellen (Stern Witchell), David, Jane (Stern), Rachel, Alison, her sister, Judith and her lifelong friends. A woman of i
 WALTON--Rachel Mellon. Died peacefully at her home in Pittsburgh on March 2, 2006, in her 107th year. She was the daughter of Mary Taylor and William Larimer Mellon, founder of Gulf Oil Corporation. Mrs. Walton was a supporter of many community efforts including the Carnegie Museum of Art, 
 CARHART--Wendy. Died on Monday, March 13, at home in New York. Beloved daughter of Lucile and Amory S. Carhart, she is survived by her brother Amory Jr., her aunt Nancy H. Biddle and many cousins. A love of animals marked her life and she served for many years on the board of the ASPCA. Mem
 CONNELLY--Rita, 93. Rita Gorman Connelly of Sea Island, Georgia and Saltaire, New York died peacefully at her home on March 11. Beloved wife of the late Paul W. Connelly, mother of Patricia McAllister and the late Jeanne Heurtematte and the late Paul W. Connelly III; grandmother of Cristin 
 GOLD--Harriet. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harriet Gold. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Abe, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary 
 HALL--Martha Parker. Beloved, age 89, of Wellfleet, MA. and Manhattan, died March 5, 2006 in Nashville, Tn. Collage artist, great friend, lover of jazz and Manhattan. Former wife of Edward Gemmell, Monroe Hall, and widow of John Hughes Hall, she leaves two step-daughters, a step-son, two go
 JACOBS--Thelma. The partners and staff of Labaton Sucharow express their deepest sympathy to their partner, Lynda J. Grant, on the passing of her mother, and we extend condolences to her husband, son and grandchildren. Labaton Sucharow LLP       
 REINLIEB -- Hilda F. On March 12 at the age of 99. Survived by her 100 year old sister, Miriam, son, Ferdinand, daughter - in - law, Wendy, grandsons, Andrew and James. Retired NYC school teacher. Worked tirelessly at her beloved Temple EmanuEl. Services at Temple Emanu-El, 65 Street and 5t
 RUSSELL -- Wendy Vander Poel. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Wendy Vander Poel Russell. Mrs. Russell was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory since 1984, serving as Secretary from 1985-87 and 1992-97 and 
 MOFFO SARNOFF - Anna. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Anna Moffo Sarnoff, daughter-in-law of beloved Women's Division leader Lizette H. Sarnoff, in whose memory the Lizette H. Sarnoff Award for Volunteer Service was created. Anna Moffo received the National Women's Division's Spirit
 BISSINGER--Ellie. The Board of Governors and members of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL, note with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Ellie Bissinger. We extend deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Chuck, and family. Robert Rachesky, President       
 CARHART--Wendy. The staff of Doyle New York is profoundly saddened by the loss of our longtime friend and colleague, Wendy Carhart. We will miss Wendy's whimsical sense of humor, her professionalism, her generosity and her common sense. We extend our sincere sympathy to the Carhart family. 
 FOSTER--Nancy Adamson. September 18, 1923--March 13, 2006. Daughter of Percy and Lillian Adamson, sister of Ronald D. Adamson, wife of David W. Foster. Beloved mother of Gray, Margaret, Jan, Ian and Nina Foster. Devoted grandmother to Tad Kreager, Meg Almanza, Christopher Starr, Andrew Rone
 LINDEN--Patricia, 80, of New York City. On March 9th. She had been in failing health for several years. She leaves behind her beloved son and daughter-in-law, Peter and Joanne Linden of Houston and her grandson, Christopher Linden of Nashville. A highly regarded editor, journalist and autho
 RUSSELL -- Wendy Vander Poel. The Board of Directors, Medical Advisory Board and staff of The Eye-Bank for Sight Restoration wish to express our sincere condolences to the family of Wendy Vander Poel Russell, our Honorary Director who served on the Board of our organization for 27 years and
 BARTHOLOMEW--Patricia S. On March 10, 2006. Beloved wife of Geoffrey. Loving mother of Rebecca Soller and Rafe Bartholomew. Daughter of George and Patricia Procak, sister of Fran Noyes, Tina Tyler, Kate Douglas and Betsy Larkin. Professor Emeritus, Dr. Bartholomew was Chair of the Dept. of 
 Ann Calvello, whose bad-girl attitude, madcap makeup, polka-dot hair and savage style of play made her a legend in the flamboyantly indecorous sport-cum-circus that is roller derby, died on Tuesday at a hospital near her home in San Bruno, Calif. She was 76. The cause was liver canc
 Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville. She was 81. No cause of death was announced, b
 FLANIGAN--Brigid Snow. Beloved wife of 51 years of Peter Flanigan, died peacefully on March 16, 2006. Mrs. Flanigan was the mother of Brigid S. Lezak of Portland, OR; Sister Louise Marie Flanigan of Birmingham, AL; Dr. Timothy Flanigan of Tiverton, RI; Megan Skakel of Greenwich, CT; and Rob
 GLASS--Wendy, 80, on March 15, 2006. Loving mother of Robin Chess and Tim Glass. Adoring grandmother of Jamar, Jasmine, Sam and Rebecca. Dear sister of Nathan Davis and the late Natalie and Ellen. Graveside service, Woodlawn Cemetery 12 noon Friday March 17. Contributions in her memory may 
 GRAEBER--Ruth R. Died March 15. A women of many talents, her death is a great loss to her many friends, her surviving son David, and the organizations for which she worked as a volunteer. Christine Volkmar       
 HANSEN--Wendy Griswold Howes. Born October 30, 1955. Died on March 15, 2006. She will be missed and mourned by her three children AshleyAnne Howes Hansen, William Griswald Hansen and Henry Christian Oliver Hansen. On her dying days she was surrounded by her children, her mother Jennifer, he
 KAPPEL--Gloria. A special friend who lived each day with grace and dignity and concern for others. We're all diminished by her loss. Norma and Jim       
 LINDEN--Patricia, 80, of New York City. On March 9th. She had been in failing health for several years. She leaves behind her beloved son and daughter-in-law, Peter and Joanne Linden of Houston and her grandson, Christopher Linden of Nashville. A highly regarded editor, journalist and autho
 OLDANI -- Elizabeth Marie (Diehl). Age 76. Ann Arbor resident transitioned in life peacefully at her home surrounded by her husband and children on March 13, 2006. ''Betty'' was loving wife to John Francis Oldani for over 57 years. Cherished mother to Mary Elizabeth (Brian) Metzger, Anne Ca
 FLANIGAN--Brigid Snow. Beloved wife of 51 years of Peter Flanigan, died peacefully on March 16, 2006. Mrs. Flanigan was the mother of Brigid S. Lezak of Portland, OR; Sister Louise Marie Flanigan of Birmingham, AL; Dr. Timothy Flanigan of Tiverton, RI; Megan Skakel of Greenwich, CT; and Rob
 HANSEN--Wendy Griswold Howes. Born October 30, 1955. Died on March 15, 2006. She will be missed and mourned by her three children AshleyAnne Howes Hansen, William Griswald Hansen and Henry Christian Oliver Hansen. On her dying days she was surrounded by her children, her mother Jennifer, he
 LILIS--Ruth, M.D., 80. Professor Emeritus at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine died on March 17, 2006 at her home in New York City. Surived by her husband Dr. Michael Lilis, daughter Elena Lilis Werner, son-in-law Louis G. Werner, grandchildren Genevieve & Kennett and sister Dr. Judith Lowe. Fri
 LOWE--Ruth D., 81. Passed away March 14 after a brief illness. The brevity of her passing contrasted with her long, vibrant family and social life. Daughter of Dr. Wheeler and Laura Davey, she grew up in State College, PA. After graduating Penn State University, she came to New York to sing
 McHUGH -- Catherine (nee McCarthy), September 29, 1914-March 16, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Thomas. Born Corlinan, Balinalee, County Longford, Ireland. Mother of Peggy (Rich), Tom (Deb), Kevin (Geri), Rosemary (Steven). Grandmother of Brian (Kim), Cathy (Chris), Rosemary, Sean, Liz, Tes
 STEVENSON--Therese L. of Bedford, NY died on March 16, 2006 at age 64. Terry was born on December 17, 1941 in Bronx, NY to Daniel, Aloysius and Margaret Stevens Lawler. She was was educated in New York and graduated from St. Barnabas High School in 1958. She earned a Bachelors degree in Eng
 Madeleine Pelner Cosman, a prominent writer, scholar and lecturer whose passion for what she called the ''glorious order'' of the past led her first to a career in medieval and Renaissance studies and more recently to wide public advocacy of tougher immigration laws, died on March 2 in Esco
 BASS--Carole Linda Rose. Passed away March 6, 2006 at the age of 64. Carole was a gifted grade school teacher and stage theatre professional. She brought the joy of teaching and performing to thousands over the course of her 25 year career. Carole was the loving partner of Barry Hill, belov
 DESTENAY--Dorianne On February 11, 2006, in Switzerland. Dorianne was born and initially studied in Prague. After emigrating in difficult circumstances postwar, she graduated from the Demoiselles de Decker in Brussels and the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. She was a well known shoe designer
 LILIS--Ruth, M.D., 80. Professor Emeritus at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine died on March 17, 2006 at her home in New York City. Surived by her husband Dr. Michael Lilis, daughter Elena Lilis Werner, son-in-law Louis G. Werner, grandchildren Genevieve & Kennett and sister Dr. Judith Lowe. Fri
 MAYNARD -- Ruth Corson. Passed away peacefully at her home in Boca Grande, FL. on March 13 at the age of 60 after a valiant year-long battle with cancer. Beloved sole sister of Meg Gilsten Hale. Loving aunt of Rachel Hale and Lucas (and Michelle) Hale. Daughter of the late Ann and Sydney Wi
 MILCH--Karole K. Died of cancer at her Manhattan home December 22. Memorial gathering Sunday April 2, 2-4PM. For details contact Kathy Kowal: 910-200-1502 or kowal@juno.com       
 MILSTEIN--Barbara (nee Adduchio). Age 74. Died at home on March 15, 2006 surrounded by her family after a brave four-year struggle with ovarian cancer. A resident of Greenwich, CT and Jupiter, FL, she lives on in the hearts of her husband of 50 years, Sidney, three children, six grandchildr
 NEUMAN--Jean. On March 17, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Neuman. Loving mother of William Witrock and Nancy Ehrlichman. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Alison and Luke. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service Sunday, March 26, 11 AM at Frank E. Ca
 PECK--Jane Reiffel. March 16, 2006 at home in Chappaqua, NY. Wife of Robert B. Peck. Sister of Betty Ann Bry. Mother of Lisa Peck MacPhail, Amy Peck Sinsheimer, Susan Peck Kineke; motherin-law of Allen MacPhail, Ralph Sinsheimer, Paul Kineke. Grandmother (''Mimi'') of Lucy, Bryan, Kate MacP
 PERRONE--Priscilla Gillette, 80, Died at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York on Thursday, February 2, 2006 following a period of declining health. Priscilla Gillette was an outstanding vocal talent and made her debut in the first tour of ''Brigadoon'' in 194748. She went on to take the role of
 SALLENAVE - Terese. De cember 8, 2005 of fibrotic lung disease. R.N., state and federal wildlife rehabilitator, former board member of Humane Society, affiliated with various animal organizations, interpreter for NYC Marathon. She is survived by her sister Elsa of Buenos Aires. Services to 
 SANFORD--Louise R. (nee Ritter). 93, of Sarasota, FL, passed away Sunday, March 12, 2006 after a brief illness. Born and raised in Poughkeepsie, NY, she attended Vassar College and later married Charles W. Sanford of Arlington, NY. At the onset of WWII, Louise and Charlie moved with their f
 SEARLE--Evelyn. Died February 28, 2006 after a short illness. Her grandfather, Seligman, a banker, helped the Union cause and raised funds selling bonds to Great Britain. Ulysses S. Grant, upon his ascendancy to President of the United States, requested her grandfather to be the Secretary o
 SOLOMON--Roslyn Kaye. 96. Beloved wife of the late Sylvan Solomon, sister of the late Buddy Kaye. Loving mother of Judie Marcus (Alan), Marcia Silva (Delio). Devoted Nannie of Debbie Corrado (Joe), Robert Marcus, Randy Downs and Kevin Downs. Adoring great-grandmother of Jeff and Greg Corrad
 SPATZ--Paula. 88 of Louisville, passed away peacefully on March 15. A life long learner and avid reader, she graduated college at 73. She was preceded in death by her husband Jack, son Gene and sister Minna Schielman. She is survived by daughters Amy Lowen and Cathy Spatz Widom; granddaught
 GINSBERG - Dorothy. On March 18, 2006 (97 years). Beloved wife of the late Murray Ginsberg. Resident of The Bristol, formerly of Cherry Hill, NJ. Beloved aunt, greataunt and great-great-aunt. Everybody loved her. In our hearts forever. The Held and Honig Family       
 HUDES--Sala. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are saddened by the loss of Sala Hudes of Tarzana, California. With her beloved husband, Edward, Mrs. Hudes was a Guardian, supporting the university at the highest level and creating a fund to help talented y
 JAFFE--Sylvia E. On March 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Devoted mother of Carol and Neal Sckolnick and Robert and Mary Jaffe. Cherished grandmother of Michelle, Shari, Dana, Sharon and Michael. Services Tuesday, 12 Noon at ''Gutterman's Inc.'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centr
 LEVINTHAL--Sonia, 85. Died on March 18, 2006 in NYC. A graduate of Smith College and an artist, she was director of public information at McGraw-Hill and later at Scholastic. She is survived by her brother, Elliott Levinthal, and his wife, Rhoda, and their children, David, Judy, Michael and
 RICK--Gladys. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Gladys Rick. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 ZECK--Belle Mayer. Prominent Rockland County Attorney, died peacefully at her home in Suffern on Saturday Evening. Born in Port Henry, NY on Ferburary 22, 1919, she moved to Suffern in 1925, where the Mayer family owned Suffern Distributors for forty years. Belle was a graduate of Suffern H
 BRUSTIEN--Iris M. On March 20. Beloved wife of Harold. Loving and devoted mother of Steven and Susan and their spouses Mary and Peter. Treasured grandmother of Matthew. Cherished sister of Libby and Jimmy and the late Helen and Roland. Exceptional sister-in-law to Rose. Adored aunt and grea
 FEURMAN--Anne. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Anne Feurman, beloved mother of Fran Szczesny, whose leadership and generosity deeply impacts millions of lives in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our deepest s
 MUNROE--Mildred Warner. Died March 17, 2006 gently among her closest family. Beloved mother and teacher. Survived by her children, grandchildren, sisters and others. Share thoughts at friendsofmillie.blogspot.com       
 ROSENHECK--Viola D. The Board of Directors and staff of The Riverdale Mental Health Association expresses its deepest sorrow to the family of V.D. Rosenheck. We share your loss of this wonderful, courageous woman, a longtime friend and 20 year member of our board. We will miss her valuable 
 WERNE--Irene Garrow, M.D. A retired pathologist and dedicated peace activist, died in her own home of natural causes at age 91 on March 17, 2006. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. Jacob Werne and is survived by a sister, Ms. Eleanore Nyilas, her two daughters, Dr. Joellen Werne and N
 REIS--Marian, 96. March 22, 2006. Born in Vienna. Loving mother of Monica (Peter) de Janosi. Devoted grandmother of Paul (Lydie), Nicholas, Alexander (Amber). Greatgrandmother of Max and Evan. She will be missed.       
 SOLOMON--Pauline, 91. On March 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Leo Solomon. Devoted and cherished mother of Diane Solomon Jarett and Joan Weiss, and their spouses Barry and Allan. Adored grandmother of Brian and Michael Weiss. She was a teacher for many years at James Madison High School
 ALLEN--Sylvia Lipson. Born April 3, 1918 in Pittsfield, MA, died March 22, 2006 at NYU Medical Center. A graduate of The Ohio State University, she was elected to the national Mortar Board Society, received an M.A. in Social Welfare, and practised Social Work in Columbus, OH, Pittsfield, MA
 FRISCH--Jean. On March 21, 2006. Beloved wife of Irwin J. (Mike) Frisch. Devoted mother of Barbara, Adrienne and Richard; cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Jesse, Andrew, Jonathan and Katherine. An active community member of Wynmoor serving as Director for 17 years, President of Antigua II f
 HORN--Inez. The Board of Directors and the Resource Library Volunteers of Women At Risk extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Inez Horn. Through her caring, insight and dedication to Women At Risk's mission, Inez provided invaluable support to countless people with cancer. Her humo
 PENROSE--Theodora (Teddy) Fera. 94, died in Miami FL on March 21, 2006 following a long illness. Teddy, a long time Miami resident, lived a full and generous life making contributions to Adopt-a-Pet, the Shores Performing Arts Theatre and The American Red Cross, among other beneficiaries. S
 SAMOT--Dorothy. We extend our sincerest condolences to Barbara (and Morrie) Libman and David (and Robin) Samot on the loss of their beloved mother. Her great passion for music and deep sense of devotion to family instilled in her children, grandchildren, and greatgranddaughter a strong sens
 SHIPMAN -- Pauline (nee Tourre) of Manhattan, formerly of Muskegon, MI, on March 10, 2006. She was active in Civic Theatre playing the leading roles in ''The Night of January 16th'' and ''The Man Who Came to Dinner''. Founding partner in Tourre's Soda Grille until her marriage to George E. 
 ALLEN--Sylvia Lipson. Born April 3, 1918 in Pittsfield, MA, died March 22, 2006 at NYU Medical Center. A graduate of The Ohio State University, she was elected to the national Mortar Board Society, received an M.A. in Social Welfare, and practised Social Work in Columbus, OH, Pittsfield, MA
 FALKOW--Michele G., 48, the beloved wife of Lewis R. Steinberg, died at home on March 24, 2006 of esophageal cancer. She was the devoted daughter of Seymour and Florence Falkow, the loving sister of Stephen Falkow, the aunt of Zachary Falkow, as well as the daughter-in-law of Shirley Sobel 
 GEWELB--Yola, 70, of Mahwah, NJ, tragically killed in an auto accident on Friday, March 24, 2006. Survived by her beloved husband Robert, loving children Allison (Robert) Hall, Neil (Susana), Lisa (Terrance) Byrne, and Jodi (Gerald) Hunt. Adoring grandchildren Stephanie, Matthew, Zachary, J
 HEADY--Virginia Schleussner, 76. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend, and devoted ailurophile, Ginny contributed grace, wit, and a devastating sense of humor. A graduate of The Brearley School and Barnard College, she worked in PR and advertising before earning a Master's in comparative 
 LAWRENCE--Florence W. On March 23. Adored wife of both the late Lewis R. Lawrence, M.D., and the late Samuel Rosenfeld, M.D., and cherished sister of the late Paul E. Wilson, M.D. Treasured by her children, Lynn and Jeffrey and their spouses Michael and Glenda. Beloved by all who met her fo
 NOETHER--Hannah I., nee Aschkenasy, born in Cologne, Germany, October 3, 1915, died February 25, 2006 in Larchmont, NY, and was buried February 28, 2006 in Lausanne, Switzerland. She was a member of the Holland Refugee Committee, a founding member of the Larchmont Music Chamber Circle, a fo
 Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland. She was 82. She died of heart failure, said James Morgan, a former manager
 Nena O'Neill, one half of the husband-and-wife team whose best-selling book ''Open Marriage'' helped spread the youthful sexual revolution of the 1960's to the middle-aged, middle-class Middle America of the 1970's, died on March 9 in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived on the Upper West Side. 
 ALLEN--Sylvia Lipson. Born April 3, 1918 in Pittsfield, MA, died March 22, 2006 at NYU Medical Center. A graduate of The Ohio State University, she was elected to the national Mortar Board Society, received an M.A. in Social Welfare, and practised Social Work in Columbus, OH, Pittsfield, MA
 ANGELICH--Gina L. (Donatelli). Of White Plains, NY, at age 32, received the Lord's embrace on December 27, 2005, after a courageous battle with lymphoma. Gina was the cherished wife and partner of George and the loving and attentive mother of Gretchen. She was fiercely devoted to family, an
 CALDWELL--Sarah. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague, conductor Sarah Caldwell. The first woman ever to conduct at the Met, she was not only a trail blazer, but made an incalculable contribution to opera in this country. Her probing intelligence, 
 DUFFY--Betty Minor. The Board of Directors and Members of the International Fine Print Dealers Association sadly note the passing of our colleague on February 13, 2006. A member since 1987 and founder of the Bethesda Art Gallery, she will be remembered as a highly respected dealer who helpe
 ELIAS--Molly. Cherished wife of Ike, devoted beyond compare. Mother of Martin and the late Steven, idolized grandmother of Ian, Brett and Sean. Loving sister, aunt and friend. She knew only goodness and kindness. She always spoke about the family she loved. She will be loved and never forgo
 FALKOW--Michele G., 48, the beloved wife of Lewis R. Steinberg, died at home on March 24, 2006 of esophageal cancer. She was the devoted daughter of Seymour and Florence Falkow, the loving sister of Stephen Falkow, the aunt of Zachary Falkow, as well as the daughter-in-law of Shirley Sobel 
 GARIL--Michael. The Board of Directors of Women At Risk extend our deepest sympathies to our valued board member, Ethel Garil and her family. Their strength during these difficult years has been an inspiration to us all.       
 HEADY--Virginia Schleussner, 76. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend, and devoted ailurophile, Ginny contributed grace, wit, and a devastating sense of humor. A graduate of The Brearley School and Barnard College, she worked in PR and advertising before earning a Master's in comparative 
 LAWRENCE--Florence W. On March 23. Adored wife of both the late Lewis R. Lawrence, M.D., and the late Samuel Rosenfeld, M.D., and cherished sister of the late Paul E. Wilson, M.D. Treasured by her children, Lynn and Jeffrey and their spouses Michael and Glenda. Beloved by all who met her fo
 READ--Alice Winslow (formerly Meade). Beloved mother of Everard Kidder Meade III, Devie Meade and Susanna Schindler, died March 4, Canaan, CT. Born August 26, 1919, Boston, Massachusetts to Alice (Thorndike) and John Devereux Winslow. She grew up in New York and Boston, graduated Concord Ac
 SEARLES--Evelyn. Died February 28, 2006 after a short illness. Her grandfather, Seligman, a banker, helped the Union cause and raised funds selling bonds to Great Britain. Ulysses S. Grant, upon his ascendancy to President of the United States, requested her grandfather to be the Secretary 
 SHIPMAN -- Pauline (nee Tourre) of Manhattan, formerly of Muskegon, MI, on March 10, 2006. She was active in Civic Theatre playing the leading roles in ''The Night of January 16th'' and ''The Man Who Came to Dinner''. Founding partner in Tourre's Soda Grille until her marriage to George E. 
 TAFTI--Dr. Joan Herz. Mother, wife, daughter, sister, (46) passed away at home last Sunday. Joan was devoted to her family and friends and was the loving mother of Ariana, age 10, the joy of her life. Joan was the cherished wife of Peter in whom she found a friend and life partner. Joan is 
 THOMPSON--Jana D. Jana D'Aun Thompson, president of Laudus Funds in San Francisco, died March 17 in her home surrounded by family and friends following an eight month battle with pancreatic cancer. She had turned 47 ten days earlier. Ms. Thompson, a native of Arlington, Texas, headed manage
 VARADY--Peggy Prag. Died March 18. Widow of Fritz Varady. Chic, stylish and elegant, with a mischievous and wry smile beneath her southern charm. Ever strong and ever vulnerable.       
 WINDELS--Dorothy A., 86. Of Kennett Square, PA, March 13, 2006. Born December 11, 1919 in Brooklyn, NY of Elmer and Edythe Otterstrom Windels. Survived by sister, Edith W. Illick of Kennett Square. Graduate of Syracuse Univ. ('42), she worked for Exxon Corp. in NYC for 43 years. Longtime me
 ELIAS--Molly. Cherished wife of Ike, devoted beyond compare. Mother of Martin and the late Steven, idolized grandmother of Ian, Brett and Sean. Loving sister, aunt and friend. She knew only goodness and kindness. She always spoke about the family she loved. She will be loved and never forgo
 ELLIS-MEIMAN--Janet. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Rabbi Angela W. Buchdahl, Rabbi       
 KALISH - Beverly. Beloved wife of the late Max Kalish, cherished mother of Harry (Robin), Arlene (Stuart Sankel), Donald and Sindy Cohan. Adored grandmother of Chad, Sonya, Melanie, Danny and Max. Passed away on March 24th. A loving woman whose heart knew no boundaries and whose generosity,
 KRENTS--Irma (nee Kopp), passed on peacefully at home on March 25th, at the age of 91. Adored wife of the late Milton Krents, cherished sister of Gertrude Wasserstrom, the late Evelyn Harris and the late Bernie Kopp, extraordinary mother to Larry Krents (Peggy), Babby Krentz Zuckerwise (Dav
 LEWIN -- Kathryn A. On March 26, 2006, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of Harvey M. Lewin. Loving mother of Karen (Mark) and Robert (Susan). Adored grandma of Deborah, Alex, Jonathan and Jessica. She was a lifelong New Yorker, rabid Yankee fan, and original fan of Frank Sinatra. Special grat
 McHUGH--Laura. On March 24. Beloved wife of John. Cherished mother of Brian, Theresa Lallos, Frank, Kevin, Maureen, Patrick and the late Sean. Beloved grandmother of Lauren and Andrew Lallos and Ian, Kyle, Caitlin, and Brendan. Esteemed by all who knew her. Reposing David J. Hodder & Sons F
 PHANG--Helen, R.N. Passed away peacefully on March 25 after a short illness. Helen was the doyenne of the operating room at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, and in this role always gave both extraordinary care to her patients and equally importantly by her example taught an entire genera
 THOMPSON--Jana D. Jana D'Aun Thompson, president of Laudus Funds in San Francisco, died March 17 in her home surrounded by family and friends following an eight month battle with pancreatic cancer. She had turned 47 ten days earlier. Ms. Thompson, a native of Arlington, Texas, headed manage
 VARADY--Peggy Prag. Died March 18. Widow of Fritz Varady. Chic, stylish and elegant, with a mischievous and wry smile beneath her southern charm. Ever strong and ever vulnerable.       
 GOLDSMITH--Gertrude. She is survived by three nephews, Stephen Fudell, Lewis Kuller and Alan Kuller. Died peacefully in her home in Florida. Graveside services planned for Sunday, April 2, at Beth Moses Cemetery, Plainview, LI.       
 Cindy Walker, a country songwriter whose pure, plainspoken lyrics of romance, heartbreak and picturesque prairies were recorded by major artists like Bing Crosby, Elvis Presley and Willie Nelson, making Top-40 country or pop charts more than 400 times, died on March 23 in Mexia, Tex.       
 CALDWELL - Sarah. New York City Opera mourns the passing of a great American operatic pioneer, as well as a dear friend and colleague. As founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, Miss Caldwell brought innovative repertoire, adventurous productions, and worldclass artists to America
 HIGGINS--Patricia (nee de la Pena). Died in her Manhattan home after a long and courageous struggle with cancer on March 25, 2006 at age 79. She was born in Jersey City, NJ, lived in Valley Stream, LI, NY, until moving to CA where she married James J. Higgins, Esq., partner in Kirlin, Campb
 KEARNS--Patricia Anne. The Boys Scouts of America, Greater New York Councils, acknowledge the passing of Patricia Anne Kearns, and extends its sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of her loved ones, particularly her husband, William M. Kearns, Jr
 KRENTS--Irma (nee Kopp), passed on peacefully at home on March 25th, at the age of 91. Adored wife of the late Milton Krents, cherished sister of Gertrude Wasserstrom, the late Evelyn Harris and the late Bernie Kopp, extraordinary mother to Larry Krents (Peggy), Babby Krents Zuckerwise (Dav
 LEWIN -- Kathryn A. On March 26, 2006, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of Harvey M. Lewin. Loving mother of Karen (Mark) and Robert (Susan). Adored grandma of Deborah, Alex, Jonathan and Jessica. She was a lifelong New Yorker, rabid Yankee fan, and original fan of Frank Sinatra. Special grat
 ROSENBERG - Carol. The Berkshire Bank, its Board of Directors, officers, and staff mourn the passing of Carol Rosenberg, the beloved wife of Steven Rosenberg, President of Berkshire Bancorp Inc. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to Steven, their children Scott and M
 GREENHOUSE--Aurora de la Luz Fernandez y Menendez 94, died peacefully on March 25, at her home in Wellfleet, MA. Beloved wife of Bernard, devoted mother of Nancy Carter Menendez and Elena Delbanco (Nicholas), grandmother of Jonathan (Susan), Francesca (Nicholas), and Andrea (Alex), great gr
 PHANG--Helen. As someone who had the privilege of working with Helen Phang for 20 years, I want to express my infinite gratitude for the knowledge and assistance she gave me. Helen was one of those rare individuals who was not afraid to speak her mind or do what she believed was the right t
 PRINCE--Hilary Ann. March 25, 1958 to March 27, 2006. Beloved daughter of Lois and Alvin Prince. Cherished sister of Andrew, Wendy, Donna and Nancy. Adored aunt of Kevin, Jeffrey, Eric and Jason. She will live in our hearts forever.       
 SILVER--Florence. In her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Adored mother of Penni S. Zola, Michael Silver and Dr. Bennett (Gail) Silver. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie, Gregory, Scott and Pamela. Great grandmother of her beloved Julia Raphaela. Sister of Elsie Cohen and the la
 STEINHARDT--Jean Stettheimer. A consistent and significant contributor to many Santa Barbara charities and organizations, Jean Stettheimer Steinhardt passed away on Saturday, March 25. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Walter Stettheimer of Atherton, CA, the sister of the late B
 Doris Muscatine, a pioneering chronicler of California's wine and food culture, died Saturday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 80. Her family said she died as a result of injuries suffered in a fall this month. Mrs. Muscatine began writing about food and wine in the 1
 BERGMANN--Therese G. Loving wife of the late Paul and devoted mother of Peter, Steven and Ronald, died peacefully at home in her beloved New York City. Born in Graz, Hungary, she was an education activist, consumer and community board advocate, member of Cancer Care and the Council of Jewis
 BERNSTEIN--Ruth. July 14, 1909-March 29, 2006. Passed away peacefully at 96 years young with a lively spirit, the sharpest of minds, and a gentle wit until her last moments. Known as ''Aunt'' Ruth by so many, she truly enjoyed life to its fullest-with a rare spark that lit up the room and t
 GUILD--Marian Stedman. On March 25 at age 104. She was born in Cleveland, OH on September 15, 1901 and lived there and in New York City before moving to Montclair, NJ in 1971. Wife of the late Kenneth H. Guild. Survived by a brother Charles Arthur Stedman; a daughter Nancy Weidner, a son Wi
 SILVERMAN--Joan. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children Garey, Jeremy, Marna and David Noritz, her sister Carol Silverman and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Ze
 STEINHARDT--Jean Stettheimer. A consistent and significant contributor to many Santa Barbara charities and organizations, Jean Stettheimer Steinhardt passed away on Saturday, March 25. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Walter Stettheimer of Atherton, CA, the sister of the late B
 SILVESTRE--Patricia Ann. Born in New York City, NY on June 13, 1936, daughter of Mary Elizabeth Lydon and Alphonse Michael Silvestre. Pat lived in the Bronx with her mom and her first job was a line girl at Horn & Hardart Cafeteria. Knowing this would not suffice, she convinced the family p
 ALTHOF -- Florence. On March 29, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Walter Althof. Sister of the late Ruth Mayer and Bert Friedlein. Survived by her son, Stanley and daughter - in - law, Marcie, grandchildren Jeremy and Nicole and sister Elsie Marx. Services Friday 11:30 AM at ''The Riversi
 BERGMANN--Therese G. Loving wife of the late Paul and devoted mother of Peter, Steven and Ronald, died peacefully at home in her beloved New York City. Born in Graz, Hungary, she was an education activist, consumer and community board advocate, member of Cancer Care and the Council of Jewis
 CONNELLY--Margaret (Peggy) Ward (nee Healy). Of New York City died Tuesday March 28. Peggy was born in Brooklyn, New York and lived in New York City for 52 years. She graduated from Bay Ridge High School. Peggy is survived by her husband Thomas of 25 years and his children, their spouses an
 DOERFLER--Beatrice. On March 30, 2006. Beloved mother of Stephanie and her husband Michael and the late Nicholas. Cherished grandmother of Alexandra. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. For funeral information call Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500.       
 KIRSCH--Joan Given. Age 84, wife of the late Robert J. Kirsch, died peacefully at Brighton Gardens, assistedliving facility in Middletown, N.J. She was an avid golfer and bridge player in her residences in Westfield, N.J., New Suffolk, L.I., N.Y., and Yarmouthport Cape Cod, MA. She is survi
 LOOZIS--Florence A. Loving wife of Zachary. Devoted mother of Matthew, Lisa, Beverly and Kim. Dearest Mama Zach to her granddaughters Melanie, Pamela and Cara.       
 PLOTNIK -- Phyllis. Died March 30, 2006. Arthur, Marlise and Gene will miss her. Interment at New Montefiore Cemetery April 2nd at 1:30.       
 REEDE--Barbara S. Respect for Law Alliance Inc., notes with extreme sadness the passing of its Founding Director, Officer and valued friend, Barbara. Deepest condolences to her children Amy and Ronald and to her mother Bernice. Serivces at Schwartz Bros., 114-03 Queens Blvd. 718-263-7600, S
 SILVERMAN -- Joan Hope. Daughter of Marty and Dorothy Silverman, died peacefully on March 28 surrounded by her family. She was the devoted mother of Garey, Tracey, Jeremy, Marna, and David; loving sister of Carol and Lorin; and ecstatic grandmother of Abigail. She will be remembered for the
 STEINHARDT--Jean Stettheimer. A consistent and significant contributor to many Santa Barbara charities and organizations, Jean Stettheimer Steinhardt passed away on Saturday, March 25. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Walter Stettheimer of Atherton, CA, the sister of the late B
