 Irma Bezold Wilkinson, a benefactor and former staff member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on April 24 at the Noble Horizons Nursing Home in Salisbury, Conn. She was 91 and had homes in Sharon, Conn., and Manhattan. Mrs. Wilkinson, an Islamicist and a collector, worked with
 BARKER-Elizabeth. The officers and members of the AmeriCares Family deeply mourn the passing of their dear friend Elizabeth Barker. Her warmth and generosity gave comfort to countless others. Our sincere condolences to the Barker family.       
 JOHNSON-Una E. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of their long time colleague and good friend Una E. Johnson and extend their condolences to her family. Ms. Johnson joined the Museum in 1936 as Assistant Curator of Prints a
 KAUFMAN-Posey W. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and devoted member of our National Board of Directors, who served for many years as chairwoman of our benefit shop, Connoisseur's
 McCULLOCH-Ida. On Apr. 22, '97. Friends around the world will miss her charm, magnetism, and acts of individual kindness. Advancing time overtook her. She is survived by a brother George Searle, CBE of New Zealand and only daughter Judith Heath of New York City.       
 NIV-Molly, Dr. The loving mother of Nava and Gideon is also survived by her sister Zika and her two grandsons, Caleb and Nathaniel. She fought for Israel's independence in the Irgun and became a doctor, practicing originally as a pediatrician and later as a psychiatrist. She authored a book
 RACKMAN-Ruth. The Officers, Board of Directors, faculty and staff of Bar-Ilan University in Israel, and the American Friends of Bar-Ilan, mourn with great sorrow the passing of the beloved First Lady of our university, Mrs. Ruth Rackman. A woman of quiet strength, character and dignity, she
 ROTER-Louis. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Frieda Kabak on the loss of her beloved father, Louis Roter. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SILVER-Sally (nee Sarah Gany), on April 29th from a weak heart despite a tenacious will. Born on April 14, 1918, she lived until the end ''at age 27'' in Riverdale, and is survived by many siblings, a loving husband of fifty-six years Al Silver, children Victor Silver and Sharon Silver-Rege
 AHRENS-Beatrice E. On May 1, 1997, beloved wife of the late Milton, loving mother of Burton, adoring grandmother of Matthew and Russell, dear sister of Florence Leinwand. She was much loved and will be sorely missed. Service Sunday 11 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.
 FREEMAN-Phyllis. Of New York City, on April 29, after a courageous battle with cancer. The family, friends, and colleagues of this extraordinary woman mourn her loss with profound sorrow. A memorial service will be announced. Contributions may be made in her memory to Smith College or to a 
 GIANNETTA-Ida C., a 53-year member of CBS, Radio Division, on May 1, 1997. Beloved sister of Catherine, Lucy and Carmella. Devoted aunt, grand-aunt and godmother. Reposing at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., today, Friday, May 2, 2-5 & 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, St. 
 LAVINE-Joan V., died May 1, 1997, in Cupertino, Ca., aged 103. Widow of A. Lincoln Lavine. Sister of the late John Bragman. She lived for 85 years in Manhattan. She leaves a daughter, Nancy Roberts; a son, David Lavine; five grandchildren and one greatgranddaughter.       
 SMITH-Mary Allen Gregg on April 30. Beloved wife of the Rev. John C. Smith and mother of John Clark Smith and Alexandra Gregg Smith. A service will be held at 11:30 on May 2 at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue at 71 Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Blue
 Sophia Wittenberg Mumford, the wife and sometime editor of the critic and historian Lewis Mumford,  died on April 22 at her home in Amenia, N.Y. She was 97. At her death she was writing a book on her life and the work she undertook with her husband, who died in 1990. After h
 CAREY-Emily. Boys Harbor, Inc (The Harbor for Girls and Boys) deeply mourns the untimely passing of our dedicated and cherished Trustee, Mrs. Francis J. (Bitsy) Carey on April 30. Bitsy was a very special person who made everyone she met feel equally special and loved. Our deepest and lovin
 SAX-Mary. Age 41. Of Flushing, New York, May 1, 1997. Beloved daughter of Dr. Sheldon Sax and Frances Sax. Step-daughter of Mary Lou Sax. Beloved sister of Susan Sax O'Grady and David Sax. Sister-in-law of Pam Sax and Brian O'Grady. Cherished aunt to Caitlin and Molly O'Grady, Alex and Mega
 CAPARN-STEEL-Rhys, age 87, Danbury, CT, a noted sculptress, died Tuesday in Danbury, CT. She was formerly of Newtown, CT., and was the widow of H. Johannes Steel. Mrs. Steel was born in Onteora Park, NY, July 28, 1909, daughter of Harold and Clara Jones Caparn. From 1927 to 1929 she attende
 CARLTON-Mildred. Cedarhurst, NY, on April 22, 1997. Loving wife of William, devoted mother of Barbara and Barry Goodman and Gary and Debby Carlton. Adored grandmother of Alison, Todd, Kimberly and Gregory Goodman and Lindsay and Julie Carlton. She will remain alive in the memories of those 
 MALE-Leonore Edel, artist, photographer, interior/graphic designer and mother died April 27, 1997. Graduate of Hood College in 1938 and tech draftsperson during W.W. II. Lee designed the original RCA showroom in 1948. She was an award winning painter & photographer while raising her family.
 WALLACH-Mildred. On May 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Emil. Adored and cherished mother of Eugene Wallach and Alice Kulick Klein and mother-in-law of Howard Klein. Loving grandmother of Genevieve and Robert, Peter and Ann Mette, Phillis and Renee and Tommy. Great grandmother of Bret, Ni
 WYMAN-Marjorie (nee Weinstock). 64, of St. Louis, on May 1, 1997. Died of complications of lung cancer. Survived by her children Frank of Short Hills, NJ, Jean of Beverly Hills, CA; and grandchildren Alice and Bert; devoted companion Maynord C. Rosen; loving sister Dorothy Marks and brother
 COHEN-Blanche. On May 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Charles Tully. Cherished mother of Marcia Singer and Harvey Cohen. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. She was the ultimate mother. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FLEISCHMANN-Lillian Keisch. On May 2 at 90. Fondly remembered by her family for her pioneering spirit as an attorney. Prominent in Bronx Women's Bar Association. Survived by sons Robert and David, grandchildren Sharon, Julie, Mark, and Melanie.       
 GURWIN-Rosalind. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph. Adored and cherished mother of Laura Flug, Eric Gurwin, mother-in-law of Karen, twin sister of Murray Brizel, loving grandmother of Danielle, Jeffrey, Jason and Jaclyn. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, corner Middl
 KELLEY-Florence M. Prominent retired New York City Judge. May 3, 1997, age 85. Of Little Compton, RI, formerly Manhattan, New York City, NY. Wife of David S. Worgan, retired Executive Assistant D.A. of New York County. Sister of Augustus M. Kelley and Nicholas Kelley, Jr. Her funeral servic
 MAHER-Eileen Gilmore. On May 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Robert D. Beloved sister of Kathleen E. Gilmore, Georgette M. Gilmore, Lillian G. Larson and the late Sally M. Driscoll. Cherished aunt of Robert and Julie Larson, Bruce and Alice Larson and grand-aunt of Robert Sean and Lauren 
 MANDEL-Eleanor. On May 1, 1997. Devoted mother of only child Daniel, and dynamic partner in the firm of Dufour, Limited. Her presence will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Private services were held for family members on Saturday, May 3. Plans for a memorial service will be announce
 MULDOON-Margaret R. May 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late James. Extraordinary woman, teacher and mother of Thomas, James, Ann and Margaret. Grandmother of nine. Great-grandmother of six. She set an example for all to live by with her courage, love and sense of humor. Visiting McManus Funer
 ROTH-Ida E. (Posen). Jamaica, NY, April 28, 1997 after 102-2/3 years dedicated to her late husband David, two children, five grandchildren, their spouses, six great grandchildren; her strong work ethic, education, public service and Hadassah. ''A fantastic lady.''       
 SEYMOUR-Sonya. May 3, 1997, in her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late Walton Seymour. A lifetime of service in social work. Survived by her sister Paula Ariel, nephews and nieces, and Martha and Charles Seymour.       
 LEE-Nita (Abrahams). Our darling Nita. You remain an everlasting inspiration to all of us who adore you and carry you in our hearts. Her loving family.       
 Una E. Johnson, who built the print collection of the Brooklyn Museum of Art into one of the country's largest and best, died April 28 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Johnson, who was born in Dayton, Iowa, in 1905, was educated at the U
 BORNEMANN-Hellen. The people of Saint Peter's Lutheran Church are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our beloved friend and co-worker Hellen Bornemann this past Thursday morning, May 1. Hellen is survived by her son, Paul, her daughter-in-law, Heather, her grandsons, Zachary and Alexa
 COHEN-Blanche. On May 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Charles Tully. Cherished mother of Marcia Singer and Harvey Cohen. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. She was the ultimate mother. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 EBENAU-Selma, on May 4, 1997. Beloved wife of the late David. Survived by her sister-in-law, Betty Brown, niece and nephews, Nancy Brown, Judge Franklin R. Weissberg and Fred Brown.       
 GURWIN-Rosalind. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph. Adored and cherished mother of Laura Flug, Eric Gurwin, mother-in-law of Karen, twin sister of Murray Brizel, loving grandmother of Danielle, Jeffrey, Jason and Jaclyn. Services on Tuesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, corner Mi
 KIMPER-Olla Marie. On Friday, May 2, 1997. She was 74 years old. She was born on July 3, 1922 in Talladega, Alabama, to Oscar and Maxie Lawless. Mrs. Kimper had been the high school guidance supervisor for the city of New York, borough of Manhattan until her retirement in 1981. Mrs. Kimper 
 NEWMAN-Ann (nee Miller), on May 5 after a valiant struggle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife and true partner of Ron. Cherished mother of Jennifer Goldberg, adored sister of Yvette Miller Horwitz and Marc Miller, brother-inlaw of Ken Horwitz and Geoffrey Newman, aunt, great aunt and friend.
 PECHENIK-Norma. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Norma Pechenik. Her daughter, Marjorie Rosenthal, is a longtime leader and supporter of the Women's Campaign, a member of the Board of Directors, and chair of the Resource Line Governing C
 PROSE-Yvette. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Yvette Prose. On behalf of all Fairview members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Stephen A. Leber, Secretary  
 BLUM-Jean S. Age 76. Died at home May 6, 1997 of cancer. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Wendy and Andrea Blum. She also leaves her brother Steven Sheinhouse, her aunt Peggy Sprung, her sister-inlaw Jeanne K. Blum and many devoted friends. Her courageous spirit and good h
 BORNEMANN-Hellen. The people of Saint Peter's Lutheran Church are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our beloved friend and co-worker Hellen Bornemann this past Thursday morning, May 1. Hellen is survived by her son, Paul, her daughter-in-law, Heather, her grandsons, Zachary and Alexa
 GURWIN-Rosalind. The Officers, Board and staff of National United Jewish Appeal mourn the passing of Rosalind Gurwin, a committed philanthropist, devoted to Jewish and other causes. With her husband, UJA Trustee and Honorary National Vice Chairman Joseph Gurwin, she offered vision and gave 
 HOFFMAN-Lynn Murphy, 42, of Manhattan, died Tuesday, May 6. Beloved wife of Bobby. Devoted mother of Ryan, cherished daughter of Edward and Vera Murphy. Sister of Vera, Bunny and Matthew. Aunt of Bethany. Loving daughter-in-law of Carmela Hoffman and sister-in-law of Richard, David, Nancy, 
 KAHN-Shirlee. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of Shirlee Kahn, wife of William Kahn, former executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a predecessor of UJAFederation. Shirlee was an active partner, with 
 NELSON-Leah (nee Borowitz). On May 6, 1997, at age 94. Beloved wife, for 66 years, of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Melvin J. Nelson and Paula, and of the late Stanley I. Nelson. Cherished grandmother of Wendy, Lisa, John and Jane Nelson, and Mark and Christopher Nelson. Loving great g
 ROSENBLATT-Mildred, died May 5, in Florida. She is survived by four sons: Sidney, Murry, Paul and Bernard, and a sister, Betty. Funeral service Thursday, May 8, 12 Noon, at Gutterman's, Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Long Island.       
 ROSENSHEIN-Carol Judith. Beloved and devoted wife of Bernard, adored and cherished mother of Lisa, Michele and Julie, daughter of Louis Kane, niece of Sylvia Kahan, mother-in-law of Mark Todes, friend of Maltese Reggie, honored member of her community. Services: Wednesday, May 7, 1997, 1 P.
 SHAPIRO-Lillian. The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourns the loss of Lillian Shapiro, beloved mother of our President, Lenore Miller, and Barbara Sachs; beloved grandmother of Jessica Miller and Richard Sachs. She was a great friend of our Union and we will miss her. Retail,
 SPELLER-Flora Maxine Elliott (nee Watkins), on May 5, 1997, in NYC, age 90. Wife of Robert Speller, President, Robert Speller & Sons, Publishers. Mother of Robert and Jon. Grandmother of Michael & Jon Speller, and Flora Speller Petti. Great-grandmother of Kelly and Katherine Speller, and Co
 Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn. She was 98 and a longtime resident of Harlem. Miss Moore, whose real name was Audley Moore, was a hero to many residents of Harlem, where she worked with Marcus Garvey, the
 Emily Norris Carey, a foundation executive and philanthropist, died on April 30 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. She was 62 and had homes in Manhattan, Ambler, Pa., and Biddeford Pool, Me. The cause was multiple myeloma, her family said. Mrs
 BLINKEN-Ethel H., died in Palm Beach, Florida on May 7 after a long illness. She was born in New York City in 1903 and married Maurice H. Blinken in 1964. He died in 1986. She is survived by her sons, Ambassador Donald Blinken of Budapest, Robert Blinken of Bedford Hills and Ambassador Alan
 BLUM-Jean S. Age 76. Died at home May 6, 1997 of cancer. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Wendy and Andrea Blum. She also leaves her brother Steven Sheinhouse, her aunt Peggy Sprung, her sister-inlaw Jeanne K. Blum and many devoted friends. Her courageous spirit and good h
 BRUECK-Beatrice, 90, of Albuquerque, NM, died Monday, May 5, 1997. She is survived by her son, Steven and his wife Cynthia of Albuquerque; her brother, Max Reiss of Wheeling, WV; and by 3 grandchildren: Jeffrey and Laura of Albuquerque and Gregory of Redwood City, CA. In New York, she was a
 GURWIN-Rosalind. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the loss of a deeply cherished friend who, in partnership with her husband Joseph, was a warm-hearted leader in support of the Weizmann Institute and numerous other philanthropic causes for the enhancement 
 HALPERN-Neel, nee Reisling. After a long illness on Sunday, May 4, in Rome, Italy. Beloved wife of Mike Halpern, adoring mother of Lisa and Michele. Burial on Friday in Denmark. In lieu of flowers, the family request donations be made in her name to Dance of the Danish-American Society or t
 HOFFMAN-Lynn Murphy. The families, faculty and administration of The Town School are deeply saddened by the death of Lynn Hoffman, wife of Bobby Hoffman and mother of sixth grader Ryan. Lynn was an active, supportive, and committed member of The Town School community, generously volunteerin
 MILLER-Hannah. Yeshiva Beth Abraham of Jerusalem mourn the loss of a dear friend and generous supporter since the inception of our organization. Our heartfelt condolences go to her daughter Professor Naomi Miller of Boston and son Dr. David Miller of Berkley, CA. Jacob Dyckman, President Me
 NELSON-Leah (nee Borowitz). On May 6, 1997, at age 94. Beloved wife, for 66 years, of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Melvin J. Nelson and Paula, and of the late Stanley I. Nelson. Cherished grandmother of Wendy, Lisa, John and Jane Nelson, and Mark and Christopher Nelson. Loving great g
 RANGELL-Anita, of Los Angeles, died on April 27 at the age of 81, following a brief, tumultuous struggle against a sudden, rapidlyadvancing malignancy of the brain. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Sept. 18, 1915, she married Leo Rangell Feb. 22, 1939. The two left their New York life via the Air Forc
 SHULDINER-Gertrude (Shaskan). A gracious, talented and intelligent woman who brought happiness to all who knew her-mother, father, husband, son, daughter, sister, brothers, in-laws, nieces, nephews, friends and neighbors. She was much appreciated and loved.       
 TURIN-Edice Louisa Charon. Departed this life April 27th, 1997. Survived by her devoted husband, Dr. Joseph Turin; sorrowing daughter and son-in-law, Susan and Alan Dechter and grandchildren, Bradley, Ira, and Amie. For information call ''Gutterman-Musicant'', Hackensack, New Jersey (800-52
 BLINKEN-Ethel H., died in Palm Beach, Florida on May 7 after a long illness. She was born in New York City in 1903 and married Maurice H. Blinken in 1964. He died in 1986. She is survived by her sons, Ambassador Donald Blinken of Budapest, Robert Blinken of Bedford Hills and Ambassador Alan
 LORD - Susan Stackpole, of Charleston, SC, and Syosset, NY, died Wednesday, April 30. Mrs. Lord, born in New York City, where she graduated from Miss Chapin's School, was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Stackpole of Tuxedo Park, New York. She was a championship horsewoman and bridge pl
 MILLER-Hannah. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of our generous benefactor and beloved sister-in-law of our most devoted Honorary National President, Dina Dyckman. Heartfelt condolences to her children and the entire family. Evelyn Blachor, National Pres. Marvin Leff, Exec. Dir,      
 Rosalind Gurwin, a benefactor of Jewish causes in the United States and Israel, died on Saturday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. She was 73 and lived in Kings Point, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was a heart ailment, said her husband, Joseph Gurwin, a retired textile ma
 Florence M. Kelley, the first administrative judge of the modern Family Court in New York City and an advocate for the legal rights of the poor, died last Saturday at her home in Little Compton, R.I. She was 85. The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a reti
 BLINKEN-Ethel H., died in Palm Beach, Florida, after a long illness on May 7. She was born in New York City in 1903. In 1924, she married Maurice H. Blinken who died in 1986. She is survived by her sons, Ambassador Donald Blinken of Budapest, Robert Blinken of Bedford Hills and Ambassador A
 GIGANTE-Yolanda, 95 years old, born in Naples, Italy and a resident of Greenwich Village for 76 years. Beloved wife of the late Salvatore Esposito Vulgo Gigante. Devoted mother of Mario, Vincent, Rev. Louis and the late Pasquale, Vincenzo and Ralph. Loving sister of Dolores Santasilia. Also
 GREENBERG-Selma Weintraub, Ed.D. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Professor Emerita of Education Selma Weintraub Greenberg. Professor Greenberg was a nationally known researcher on early childhood education, a leader in the field of teacher education, & an advocate 
 POLKOWITZ-Louise. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Louise Polkowitz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, rabbi Martin I. Klein, president       
 RASEMAN-Elizabeth Harding, 73, of Old Field, L.I., on May 7, 1997, after a brief illness. Born in Vicksburg, MS, October 20, 1923, daughter of James B. Harding of Vicksburg and Elizabeth Morrison Harding of Chattanooga, TN., she married Chad J. Raseman on February 7, 1945. She is survived b
 Dionis Coffin Riggs, a poet, author, newspaper columnist and civic leader who made Martha's Vineyard her home and her passion for the better part of a century, died on April 20 at Cleaveland House, the West Tisbury, Mass., boardinghouse where she had listened to seafaring tales as a child a
 BEYDA-Shirley Attie, 1909-1997. Beloved matriarch, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, leader in community service and role model. Her passing is the end of an era. She leaves us a legacy of intelligence, integrity, dignity, compassion, tolerance, grace and courage. She continues to ins
 BLINKEN-Ethel H., died in Palm Beach, Florida, after a long illness on May 7. She was born in New York City in 1903. In 1924, she married Maurice H. Blinken who died in 1986. She is survived by her sons, Ambassador Donald Blinken of Budapest, Robert Blinken of Bedford Hills and Ambassador A
 COLE-Kristine. The Faculty, Staff, Parents and Students of Grace Church School extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Kristine Cole upon her passing on May 9, 1997. She was a caring teacher, an innovative and dedicated educator and a wonderful colleague. We will miss her smile. Grac
 GIGANTE-Yolanda, 95 years old, born in Naples, Italy and a resident of Greenwich Village for 76 years. Beloved wife of the late Salvatore Esposito Vulgo Gigante. Devoted mother of Mario, Vincent, Rev. Louis and the late Pasquale, Vincenzo and Ralph. Loving sister of Dolores Santasilia. Also
 KELLEY-Florence Maher, R.N. Mother of Paul Kelley, O.D. of Branford, CT., sister of Eileen Maher of NYC, sister of the late Helen Porter Maher-McKernon, Sister Mary Gratia Maher, R.S.M., Arthur C., Stuart E., Robert D. and Rev. Gordon H. Maher. She was an alumna of Lenox Hill Hospital Schoo
 LANDAU-Janette. May 1, 1997. Beloved mother and friend, missed by daughter Iris Scharer, son Charles Landau and persons all over the world. She was a talented sculptress and artist and a generous supporter of many charities. Her compassion and understanding benefitted many. A memorial servi
 LEWIS-Minna Margulies. Of Fifth Ave., NY on May 7, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Duffy. Devoted mother of Donald Lewis, Jane Rosenberg and son-in-law, Joel Rosenberg. Loving grandmother of Jennifer and Dawn Rosenberg. Her charm, wit, beauty and zest for life made a lasting impression on al
 SITZER-Marcia Newman, 63, of Aventura, Florida, on Friday, May 9, 1997. Devoted mother of Abbe Lewites (Mitchell), David (Beth), Steven (Pauline), and Marc (Valerie). Loving sister of Linda Wattenberg (Paul). Beloved niece of Sylvia Schwartz (Milton). Adored and cherished grandmother of Jor
 REEVES-Minna. Fond and esteemed remembrances today and every day of a mother whose beauty, charm, and talent were exceeded only by her filial devotion.       
 SIGLER-Lillian H. 1903-1972. In loving memory from her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren on this Mother's Day 1997.       
 Selma Weintraub Greenberg, an expert in early childhood education who retired two years ago from Hofstra University as an emeritus professor, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was uterine cancer, her family said. Born in 
 GIGANTE-Yolanda. The Board of Directors and employees of SEBCO Development, Inc. mourn the loss of Yolanda Gigante, mother of our Chairman, Father Louis R. Gigante. To her family, we extend our profound and heartfelt condolence.       
 GURWIN-Rosalind. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center sadly mourn the untimely passing of Rosalind Gurwin, beloved wife of Joseph Gurwin, a cherished friend, humanitarian and esteemed supporter. Rosalind will be greatly missed. May her legacy act as a source of
 KOLATCH-Esther H. Beloved sister of Jean Pickman, Pearl Goodman, and the late Isidore, Philip, Bernard and Rabbi Ephraim. Cherished aunt and great-aunt. Shiva at her home through Friday morning.       
 Marie Salant Neuberger, a New York foundation executive and philanthropist who was long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Peekskill, N.Y. She suffered a long illness, her 
 FELDMAN-Florence (Ross), of Scarsdale, NY peacefully on Mother's Day. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Ross and Arnold Feldman. Beloved mother of Joan Israel and James Ross. Loving grandmother of John, Lynn, Diane, Robert Israel and Robert, Richard, James, Jennifer and Michael Ross. Proud gr
 KOLATCH-Esther. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its Sisterhood mourn the passing of their senior member and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President KOLATCH-Esther. The officers and staff of The American
 LEMONNIER-Jeanne. Mother of Joe and John Paul, wife of the late Ernest LeMonnier, died peacefully in her home in Manhattan after a long illness. Services scheduled for Wednesday, May 14, 1:30 P.M., at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue between 75th and 76th Streets, in Manhattan. Shiva to f
 NEUBERGER-Marie Salant, 88, died on May 11th, 1997. Beloved wife of Roy R. Neuberger for nearly sixty-five years. Devoted mother of Ann Aceves, Roy S. and Linda Neuberger, and James Neuberger. Treasured grandmother of Andrea, Patricia and Matthew London, Sarah Lancry, Yaffa Jungreis and Mir
 PLOTTEL-Frances. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of our longtime member. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 REICHERTER-Betsey Bruckner, of Selinsgrove, PA. on May 10, 1997. Survived by husband Robert Charles, three sons, parents Jack L. and Marion Johnson Bruckner of Oyster Bay, Long Island and two sisters. Contribtutions in her memory may be to Betsey's Fund, C/O Snyder County Trust Co., Shamoki
 RICHMAN-Evelyn S., age 81, beloved wife of the late Jack B. Richman, after a long illness, died peacefully at her home in Hollywood, FL., on May 11. She is survived by her children: Benjamin (Buddy) and Sandy Richman, of Bedford, NY; Penny and Irwin Abouaf of New York City; & David and Jane
 SERWER-BERNSTEIN-Blanche, 86, on May 11 after a long battle with ALS. Beloved mother of Philip (Ellen), Daniel (Jacquelyn) and Jeremy (Nancy) Serwer. Grandmother of Zachary, Tammy, Rebecca, Jared and Adam. Wife of the late Zachary Serwer and of the late Nahum Bernstein. Author and psycholog
 WALSH-Margaret A. (Maguire), 75, of Elizabeth NJ on May 11, beloved wife of the late George R. Walsh devoted mother-in-law of Mrs. Beverly J. Walsh and Mrs. Georgina Hackett. She will be deeply missed by her 11 grandchildren & 17 great grandchildren. Mass of Christian burial Thursday 9:30 A
 ZAKARIAN-Beverly. On May 11, 1997. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Daisy Zakarian Madison and son-in-law of John Madison. Co-Founder and Executive Director of C-A-N-A-C-T, the first cancer patient advocacy group. Mrs. Zakarian represented patient issues before Congress, the Presid
 BRADLEY-Lucy Glazebrook, 79, beloved wife and mother, died May 9th, in Sagaponack, NY. Educated at Dobbs and Bennington. Married Vivian Mercier and later George Crawford Bradley. Predeceased by her brother Otis Allan Glazebrook III, she is survived by her sister Anne Kehoe, as well as by he
 BUSEL-Pauline, on May 13, 1997. Devoted mother of Joel Busel and loving mother-in-law of Sandra Busel. Her love and courage have been an inspiration to us and she will forever remain in our hearts. Services Thurs., 12 noon at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Tpke, Woodbury, L.I. Interment Mt. Arar
 ITZEL-Josephine M. Age 91, Died April 15, 1997. Daughter of Pauline and Carl Itzel. A Bronx resident her entire life, for over 35 years she taught swimming in New York City public schools, retiring from Walton High School in 1962. She is survived by a sister and brotherin-law Pauline and Fr
 KATZ-Grace, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Loving and devoted wife of Leonard, mother of Susan and Frances, sister of Arnold Grossman, sister-in-law of Ruth Grossman, Joan & Herbert Katz, Phyllis & Stanley Spielman. After a valiant and courageous fight against cancer-she was a true inspiration
 KEARNEY-Marcia, 46, of St. Petersburg, FL. Died unexpectedly May 12, 1997. Beloved daughter of Lee Froehlich Kearney and the late Paul. Dear sister of Marilee Bleetstein and Maureen Jacobs, and sister-in-law of Gary Bleetstein. Cherished aunt of Desiree, Michelle and Alix. We will miss her.
 NEUBERGER-Marie Salant, 88, died on May 11th, 1997. Beloved wife of Roy R. Neuberger for nearly sixty-five years. Devoted mother of Ann Aceves, Roy S. and Linda Neuberger, and James Neuberger. Treasured grandmother of Andrea, Patricia and Matthew London, Sarah Lancry, Yaffa Jungreis and Mir
 RESNICK-Lilyan. The NY Young Leadership Division of the Alyn Hospital expresses condolences to our esteemed executive director Joan Mendelson and her family on the loss of her beloved mother. Our thoughts and love are with you at this difficult time. Marilyn and Scott Ostro Laura Anreder, T
 ROSS-Annette Burr. Died at the age of 102 in Sarasota, Florida, on May 11. Formerly of Westport, CT. and NYC. Widow of Gustave Ross. Survived by her daughter, Sheilah Gignoux, son, Christopher, granddaughters, Amanda Cross, Lisa Pownall-Gray, and Victoria Green; grandson Nicholas Ross and s
 SCHMIER-Ann. Died Thursday May 8, of natural causes at the age of 89. She was the daughter of Asaac and Rose Revkin Mintzer. Mrs. Schmier was a principal in the NYC school system. She is survived by a brother, George Mintzer of San Francisco, her daughter, Frances Lourie of Stamford, CT., a
 SERWER-BERNSTEIN-Blanche, ELEM/Youth in distress in Israel mourns the passing of Blanche Bernstein, founder and hard working board member and professional of ELEM. Blanche's love of Israel and children showed in her persistent work at ELEM. She helped found our successful program for many I
 SERWER - BERNSTEIN - Blanche L. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of its dear friend, Blanche L. Serwer-Bernstein. Blanche's late husband, Nahum Bernstein, was a founder and the first Chairman in the U.S. of The Jerusalem Foundation. Blanche, a great lover of Jerusalem, supported 
 ULLMAN-Ruth. Of Ossining. On May 12, 1997 at her residence. Survived by one son, David, one granddaughter, Stephanie. Services Wednesday, 9 A.M., at the Temple Israel of Northern Westchester, Glengary Rd, Croton on Hudson, N.Y. Interment Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, N.Y. For information contac
 Bessie Schonberg, one of America's most influential teachers of dance composition and a mentor to several generations of dancers, died yesterday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 90. Few dance educators were as respected as Miss Schonberg and because of the devoted attention s
 BRADLEY-Lucy Glazebrook, 79, beloved wife and mother, died on May 9th, in Sagaponack, New York. Educated at Dobbs and Bennington. Married Vivian Mercier and later George Crawford Bradley. Predeceased by her brother Otis Allan Glazebrook III, she is survived by her sister Anne Kehoe, as well
 BRENNER-Esther. On May 9, 1997. Beloved sister of the late Maxwell Brenner. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Fresh Air Fund for the Career Awareness Program, 1040 Avenue of Americas, N.Y., N.Y. 10018.       
 GOLDMAN-Estelle, 89, of Long Beach, NY. Loving mother, wife & friend. Passed away Wednesday, May 13. She is survived by her three children, Michael Goldman, Jerrold Goldman & Rae Kudysch and her grandchildren Melissa Goldman, Kevin Goldman, Judy Kule, Pamela Kudysch, Andrew Kudysch, Seth Go
 HINDELS-Constance, on May 14, 1997. Beloved wife of Dr. George. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Dorothy and Dr. Lawrence Brown and of James and Carol Hindels. Adored grandmother of Jordana, Rebecca, Sarah, Sam and Naomi. Sisterly cousin of Toni Auspitz and Milly Filbert. She was deeply l
 KESTIN-Ethel. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the untimely passing of Ethel Kestin, beloved and esteemed former Board member of Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center. Her involvement with MJGC dates back, along with her late husband Samuel, more th
 MARACHE-Nancie Allen. Age 65. Beloved wife and mother, died May 14, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. Born in Milwaukee, WS and educated at Westover and Briarcliff. She is survived by her husband Herbert W. Marache, Jr., five children Nina King, Victoria Marache, Eugenie Pavelic, Herbert Marache, III 
 NEUBERGER-Marie. S. The employees and principals of Neuberger&Berman, LLC mourn the passing of Marie S. Neuberger. From her work with the Women's City Club and the Ethical Culture Society, to her commitment to Bryn Mawr, Purchase College and better education for all New York City children, 
 SCHONBERG-Bessie. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of its distinguished choreography teacher, Bessie Schonberg, whose life itself was an example of creativity, generosity and heart. We shall miss her. Mary Rodgers Guettel Chairman, Board of Trustees Joseph W. Polisi President Benjami
 BRADLEY-Lucy Glazebrook, 79, beloved wife and mother, died on May 9th, in Sagaponack, New York. Educated at Dobbs and Bennington. Married Vivian Mercier and later George Crawford Bradley. Predeceased by her brother Otis Allan Glazebrook III, she is survived by her sister Anne Kehoe, as well
 CUOMO-Rosa (nee DeGennaro) on May 14, 1997 of North Bergen, NJ. Age 68. Beloved wife of John. Devoted mother of Elizabeth (Belli) Cuomo Zeller, Yolanda Cuomo and Anthony Cuomo. Devoted mother-in-law of Craig Zeller, Dr. Joseph McLaughlin and Lisa Bruckman. Dear sister of Padro Giuseppe DeGe
 ENGEL-Marjorie. Beloved wife of Philip. Loving mother of Elyse, Terri, Steven and Wendy and sonin-laws Robert Lipkowitz and Adam Cohen. Cherished grandmother of Jordan, Garett, Carly, Alexandra, Juliann, Zachary, Luke and Remi. ENGEL-Marjorie. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre 
 GERTZ-Diana Radin. Died May 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Simon Gertz. Last survivor of the five siblings who, together with their father Benjamin, founded the Gertz Department Stores of Long Island. Loving mother of Joan Gertz Wilner and Benjamin Ira Gertz and mother-in-law of D
 McKEOWN - Dorothy Olding. Longtime resident of 447 East 57th Street, where she was fondly admired by neighbors and staff alike. Her longtime service on our Board of Directors was much appreciated, as was her indomitable, dignified and elegant presence. We will miss her. The 447 East 57th St
 PARKER-Frances This 14th day of May saw the passing of Frances Parker, devoted wife of the late Irving Parker, loving mother of James Parker and the late Joan Cohen, adoring grandmother of Kevin and Bret, and loyal friend to so many whose lives she touched. Her strength, wisdom and wit will
 SAFIR-Pearl Rashkin. on May 14, one week before her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Leo C. Safir. Beloved mother of the late Marvin R. Safir. Adored grandmother of Lisa and Shelly. Great grandmother of Ethan and Lea. May she rest in peace and love in the arms of her husband, her so
 SCHONBERG-Bessie. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of its longtime colleague and Chairperson Emeritus of its Department of Dance. An extraoardinary teacher who taught dance and directed opera and lyric pieces at the college for 35 years, her students at the college included such dive
 Catherine McLeod, an actress whose headache-induced outburst -- ''Mother, please! I'd rather do it myself!'' -- became a national catch phrase in the early 1960's, died on Sunday at the Encino-Tarzana Medical Center in Encino, Calif. She was 75 and lived in nearby Sherman Oaks. The 
 DANIEL-Elsa M. May 15, 1997. Wife of the late Simon Daniel. Mother of Allan and his wife Kendra. Grandmother of Peter, Anthony and Nora. She was a past President of the Eisman Day Nursery and a Founder of SCAN and an active member of Congregation Emanu-El, NYC. Service Monday, May 19, 2 PM,
 GERTZ-Diana Radin. Died May 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Simon Gertz. Last survivor of the five siblings who, together with their father Benjamin, founded the Gertz Department Stores of Long Island. Loving mother of Joan Gertz Wilner and Benjamin Ira Gertz and mother-in-law of D
 HALPERN-Ethel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Ethel Halpern. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Bernard and their beloved family.       
 O'HARA-Mary W., 58, on May 15, 1997. After a difficult five-year battle with cancer. Died at peace at her home in Bronxville, New York. Director of Special Events at The College of New Rochelle. Educated at College of New Rochelle and Harvard University. Wife of Charles Schramm (predeceased
 Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan. She w
 Ethel Leah Heins, a specialist in  books for young readers, died on May 8 at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. She was 79, and lived in Newton. The cause was complications from a fall, said Gregory Maguire, a friend. Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book M
 Joanie Weston, a strapping power hitter who passed up a promising and respectable future in softball to become the gum-chewing, power-skating, hip-bumping golden girl of Roller Derby, died on May 10 at her home in Hayward, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 62 and skated in an exhibition g
 ENGEL-Margorie. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Margorie Engel. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Philip and the family. Robert Roman, President       
 GOLDMAN-Muriel F. ''A woman of beauty and grace.'' Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of William and Dr. Irene Goldman. Dear sister of Richard Friedman. Funeral services Sunday at noon at Gutterman-Musicant, Hackensack. Contributions to Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva Univers
 KEARNEY-Marcia, 46, of St. Petersburg, FL. Died unexpectedly May 12, 1997. Beloved daughter of Lee Froehlich Kearney and the late Paul. Dear sister of Marilee Bleetstein and Maureen Jacobs, and sister-in-law of Gary Bleetstein. Cherished aunt of Desiree, Michelle and Alix. We will miss her.
 KLEIN-Eleanor Phillips. On May 16, 1997. Age 80. Beloved wife of Kalman Klein; empathetic sister of Hazel Stanley; loving mother of Joan Gandy and the late Richard Springer; devoted grandmother of Steven Gandy, Susan GandySmith, Teresa Gandy-Humphrey, David Gandy, Mark Springer, Jonna Hutch
 O'HARA-Mary W., 58, on May 15, 1997. After a difficult five-year battle with cancer. Died at peace at her home in Bronxville, New York. Director of Special Events at The College of New Rochelle. Educated at College of New Rochelle and Harvard University. Wife of Charles Schramm (predeceased
 PARTIKIAN-Joyce S. At the age of 63 on May 12, 1997. A native of Massapequa, L.I. and resident of NYC and Massapequa. Friend and a Joy to many. Wife of Edwin, mother of David and Drew, twin sister of Joan. Celebration of Life Service at the Unitarian Church of All Souls, 1157 Lexington Aven
 RUBIN-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of June Langbaum, Phyllis (Morris) Rubenfeld and Rochelle Rothbaum. Devoted sister of Dorothy Benofsky and Lillian Fishman. Cherished grandmother of Karen (Arthur) Mazur, Jeffrey Langbaum, Sherry (Kenneth) Grobstein, Mark (Sherry) Rub
 STEPHEN-Alice G. On May 16, 1997. Wife of the late Louis Steele, survived by her daughter Beverly, son-in-law Malcolm Taub, her sister Esther Edler, grandson Maxwell Stephen Taub, niece Kay Britton. Services Sunday, 12 noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 BERKOWITZ - KLARFELD - Her man. You almost made it Daddy. Happy 100th Birthday. Love Paula, Bob and David Froh       
 Anna Scarpova Youskevitch, a prominent ballet teacher and a former member of the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's, died on Thursday at the Broadview Health Facility in West Hartford, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daug
 FLEISIG-Robin. Suddenly and untimely, on May 16. Beloved and loving wife and best friend of Roger Greene, loving mother of Eric and Perry Fleisig-Greene, dear daughter of Beverly and Earl Fleisig and cherished daughter-in-law of Ruth Greene and the late Murray Greene, beloved sister of Merr
 KLEIN-Eleanor Phillips. On May 16, 1997. Age 80. Beloved wife of Kalman Klein; empathetic sister of Hazel Stanley; loving mother of Joan Gandy and the late Richard Springer; devoted grandmother of Steven Gandy, Susan GandySmith, Teresa Gandy-Humphrey, David Gandy, Mark Springer, Jonna Hutch
 RAPPAPORT-Mary. Formerly of Westport, CT, died May 17. Survived by son and daughter-in-law, Lawrence N. Rappaport, M.D. and Karin E. Rappaport, daughter and son-in-law Ellen R. and Richard J. Schure, grandchildren, James E. Rappaport, Amy and Julie Schure. Services Monday, May 19, 11:15 AM 
 SCHONBERG-Bessie. The artists, Board of Directors and staff of Dance Theater Workshop (DTW) deeply mourn the loss of their friend, artistic guide and mentor. Her vision, inspiration and generosity will be with us forever. She now joins her eternal love, Dimitry Varley. Our heartfelt condole
 SHERMAN-Janice G. (Rubinfeld). Lake Peekskill, on May 14. Devoted wife of Joseph. Loving mother of Randi and Dorie. Grandmother of Sarah, Jessie, and Ariel. Worked and graduated from Hunter College, Summa cum laude, at age 56. We will miss her always.       
 YOUSKEVITCH-Anna Scarpova. Former soloist with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, over 50 years distinguished and prominent New York City ballet teacher and widow of legendary Premier Danseur Igor Youskevitch. Passed away after a brief illness on May 15. Survived by an only daughter, Maria Yo
 Patricia Mason, a real-estate broker who handled the sales of some of New York's best-known properties in recent years and who was well-known as a horticulturist, died at St. Vincent's Hospital early yesterday. She was 71 and lived in Greenwich Village. Her husband, Francis S. Mason
 Dorothy Olding, longtime literary agent for J. D. Salinger and chief guardian of the reclusive author's privacy, who at the author's request once destroyed 500 letters they had written to each other, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. During a 52-year career wit
 CANE-Elizabeth Frances (Maher), 90, of Wake Robin in Shelburne, Vermont died at her home on May 18, 1997. Born in East Hartford, Connecticut on February 17, 1907. She was the daughter of John and Jennie (Flynn) Maher. She was a graduate of the College of St. Elizabeth in Convent Station, Ne
 FLORENZ-Ruth (nee Florence Levine). Born December 18, 1896. Died May 17, 1997. Last survivor of seven siblings: Samuel, Julius, Charles, Charlotte, Jess, Sidney and Al. Devoted friend of the late Grace Hooper. Her nieces and nephews, grandnieces and nephews, great-grandnieces and nephews an
 GINSBURG-Mollie, 92, piano teacher, of Highland Park, NJ, died May 18, 1997. Loving wife of the late Dr. Joseph M. Ginsburg. Dearly beloved mother of Miriam & Ira Hyams of L.I. and Melvin & Carol Ginsburg of N.J. Cherished grandmother of 5 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren. Dear siste
 HEGARTY-Irene, (Smith) 74, of Holmes Beach, Florida died May 17, 1997. Mrs. Hegarty was born in Newark, New Jersey. She was a past regent of the Plainfield, NJ Chapter of the D.A.R. She moved to Holmes Beach about four years ago from Jamesburg N.J. after having worked at Merck and Company.,
 MARGOLIS-Celia L., 90, on May 17, West Palm Beach, Fla. Wife of the late Ely. Survived by her daughter Marion Aronoff and son Ira Margolis, her sister Grace Stieber, grandchildren Cheryl Heller and Mark and Elyse Margolis and great granddaughters Dana and Erica Heller. Graveside services on
 MASON-Patricia. On May 18, 1997. Real estate broker, Senior Vice President, William B. May Company. Wife of Francis Mason, mother of Spencer Mason and Leslie Scarlett Mason, grandmother of Dexter Mason. Memorial service on Thursday, June 5, 1997, 12:30 PM, at the Church of St. Luke in the F
 SEGAL KAMEN-Edith, on May 18, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Kamen, sister of Tess Segal, loving aunt of Shari Segel Goldberg and Peter Goldberg, great aunt of Alena Goldberg. Dancer, poet, and life long activist for social justice, she will be remembered by all whose lives she touch
 FLEISIG-Robin. We are deeply saddened to record the sudden and untimely passing of our dear member, Robin Fleisig. We extend our deepest sympathy to her loving husband, Roger Greene, their children, Eric and Perry, and their entire family. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, Preside
 GLICK-Belle R. Of West Palm Beach, passed away May 18, 1997. She is survived by her husband of 55 years Sidney, her daughter Ferne Maibrunn (Bob), a loving grandson Marc. An accomplished artist and a lover of the arts. Services were Monday, May 19, in Florida. Services by Riverside Gordon M
 GREGG-Dr. Dorothy Elizabeth. Wife of Dr. Paul Hughling Scott, died May 18, 1997, at her home. The loving mother of Sharon Fox, Kim Alzerreca, Gregg Scott and grandmother of Xoli Redmond and Sophia Alzerreca. Memorial services will be held in mid June.       
 KATZENSTEIN-Margaret Rothschild. Slept away in her 101st year on May 16, 1997. She was a remarkable person and was a beloved mother of Lee Louis of Hastings On Hudson, NY, Alex Katzenstein of Greensboro, N.C., Charles J. Katzenstein, Jr. of Gastonia, N.C. Her loving grandchildren are: Sandr
 MASON-Patricia. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend, esteemed colleague and Senior Vice President. Pat was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with her. Her courage and determination continues to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our 
 SEGAL KAMEN-Edith. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Kamen. Dear sister of Tess Segel. Cherished sister-in-law of Judith and the late Manasseh Kamen and Fay and the late Ephraim Kamen; loving aunt of Barbara Kamen Movius and Geoffrey Movius; Mitchell and Helene Kamen; Richard Kamen; Michael a
 SHULL - Marilyn Seven. We mourn the loss of the wife of our dear fellow member, Richard B. Shull. She was lovely and a true woman of the theater. Our heartfelt sympathy to Dick. The Players       
 STEIN-Florence G. on May 20, 1997, of Long Beach, LI. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel, devoted mother of Barbara and the late Robert Rowan, Kenneth and Andrea Stein. Dear sister of Jessica Sagor. Adored grandmother of Marc, Andrea, David, Deborah and the late Richard. Cherished great grand
 DOMINICK-Elizabeth Yallalle, of New Canaan, CT., and Southern Pines, NC passed away on May 19. Beloved wife of Bayard Dominick. Survived by her children, Mrs. Jonathan O'Brien, Gayer G. Dominick II, Margrett Dominick Grummon, Edward Hoyt Dominick and Wilder Dominick Witt, 12 grandchildren a
 HERRING-Joy. Beloved Mummy of Arlene and Regina; loving wife of Sid. Born June 6, 1930 to Nate and Alice Jacobs and raised in Golders Green, London, England. Sadly taken from her loved ones on May 21, 1997. Her warmth, comfort and strength to all those graced by her presence will never be f
 MELTZER-Sylvia. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Robert and Diane, Dr. James and Sandra. Cherished grandmother of Jocelyn, Erica, Aaron and David. Services Thursday 12 noon at the Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck opposite LIRR. MELT
 NOVEMBER-Sylvia, on May 21, 1997. Beloved mother of Barbara and David Levey. Cherished grandmother of Betsy, Pattie, and Kenny and Blanca, and greatgrandmother of Emily. Dear sister of Marvin and Alma Glickman. Service today 1:00PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 North Station Pla
 BOTVINICK-Evelyn. Of Westfield, NJ and Sunrise, FL, suddenly on May 21, 1997 in Florida. Devoted member and benefactor of the City of Hope and Seymour L. Fass League. Loving wife of the late Jacob. Beloved mother of Donald and Dr. Elias Botvinick and the late Irving ''Sonny'' Lefkin. Mother
 DOMINICK-Elizabeth Yallalee, of New Canaan, CT., and Southern Pines, NC passed away on May 19. Beloved wife of Bayard Dominick. Survived by her children, Mrs. Jonathan O'Brien, Gayer G. Dominick II, Margrett Dominick Grummon, Edward Hoyt Dominick and Wilder Dominick Witt, 12 grandchildren a
 DuPONT-Bette Y. (nee) Katz, on May 19, 1997. We mourn the loss of our beloved mother. Survived by her loving children, daughter Gale Axelrod and son Jeffrey Axelrod, both of Manhattan, son Reed Axelrod and adored grandson Benjamin Gilbert Axelrod, both of Philadelphia. Laid to rest in etern
 GELMAN-Mrs. Ellen, 1939-1997, of Miami Beach, Fl, formerly of NY; passed away, May 22, 1997. She was the much loved wife of Theodore Gelman and cherished mother of Bonni Gelman Harris, Mila Gelman Johnson, Duff Gelman and Karen Gelman. Adored grandmother of Nikki and Jason Harris, Jude, Dev
 GREGG-Dr. Dorothy. The Women's Forum records with profound sorrow the death of its longtime, esteemed member and colleague, Dorothy Gregg, and extends condolences to her devoted husband, Paul Scott, and their family. Gail Blanke, President       
 GRUETERICH - Ursula ''Uschi.'' Was taken into the arms of the Lord on May 20, in Palm Beach, Florida. She immigrated from Germany to NY and became an accomplished artist. Her talents were exemplified in her oil and pastel paintings of flowers, landscapes and the underwater world. She was th
 WEISSMAN-Irving. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Irving Weissman, beloved brother of our devoted member and Sisterhood Trustee Florence Zornberg. To Flo, her husband Ed and the entire family our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice
 DALY-Mary H., in Chappaqua, May 23, 1997. Mother of Vincent, Thomas, John and Mary Daly and Anne DeHayes. Grandmother of five. Resting Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, New York, where family will receive friends Monday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday 10 A.M. Church of 
 Esther Goldfrank, an accidental anthropologist who did pioneering research among the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest in the 1920's and churned out papers on the experience for the next half-century, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 100. As a Barnard eco
 DOMINICK-Elizabeth Yallalee, of New Canaan, CT., and Southern Pines, NC passed away on May 19. Beloved wife of Bayard Dominick. Survived by her children, Mrs. Jonathan O'Brien, Gayer G. Dominick II, Margrett Dominick Grummon, Edward Hoyt Dominick and Wilder Dominick Witt, 12 grandchildren a
 ESPENSHADE-Dorothy Elizabeth Barrows (''Deb''). Age 80, of Wilmette, Illinois, died on May 22, 1997. Deb was an elegant human being, devoted wife and loving mother. She was born on July 26, 1916, in Chicago, Illinois, to Harlan Hiram Barrows and Adda Butts Barrows. She received a B.A. in Hi
 KIRSCHNER-Minerva. Died May 13, 1997. Beloved aunt. Beloved friend. In her sleep. Dilday Mottell Mortuary (562-421-8411).       
 KOUZAN-Athena. Age 67 of Brooklyn, NY. Died May 14, 1997 following a long and courageous battle with cancer. Born in the Bronx, she lived most of her life in Brooklyn. Member of the NY State Nurses Association, she worked for Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center for most of her career retiring 
 MOHTARES-Nada (nee Seaman). On May 22, 1997, of Bronxville and Southampton, NY. Beloved wife of Alexander Mohtares. Loving mother of Philip and Victoria Mohtares and Elizabeth Mohtares Meaders. Devoted sister of Barbara Railsback and Joan Corr. A Memorial service will be held at 11 AM on Th
 SCHOR-Ruth (nee Shaffro), 81, of Forest Hills and Flushing, NY, on May 20. Beloved wife of the late David, mother of Carol Shapiro Joseph and Deborah Gardner. Mother-in-law of Paul Joseph and Gregory Nolan. Grandmother of Lily and Molly. Sister of Lionel. Longtime social studies teacher at 
 SHAFFER-Sylvia. Lifelong resident of Brooklyn, N.Y. Went to her eternal rest in Auburn, ME., where she was confined, briefly, after an illness. Beloved mother of Simon Peter & Jean Beth. Loving grandmother of Joshua Merlin, Jill Eileen, Deborah Anne and great gandmother of Hannah Sophie. De
 VOGEL-Bess. Mathematician, leftist, feminist. A woman of unwavering character and unfailing principle. Loving mother of Irene and Jonathan, delighted grandmother of Rachel. The world is much poorer without her and we grieve.       
 HABER-Blanche. Devoted wife, mother & grandmother; inspiring teacher; tireless advocate for social justice and world peace. In loving memory on the anniversary of her death May 13, 1996. Respond to Richard Haber, P.O. Box 297, Lagunitas, CA. 94938       
 Thelma Biracree Schnepel, who danced with Martha Graham in 1926 in her first concert, died on May 12 at the Harborside Health Care center in Fort Wayne, Ind. She was 93 and lived in Fort Wayne. Known professionally by her maiden name, Miss Biracree danced early in her career with th
 FENSTERHEIM-Mildred. May 25 1997, Lag B'omer. Loving wife of Joseph; adored mother to Simeon and Dee Dee. Savta to Dani, Yoni, Josh and Gabi; cherished motherin-law of Dianne and Victor; sister to June; aunt and great-aunt. Always devoted to her family and her people. Chapel services will t
 KOUZAN-Athena. Age 67 of Brooklyn, NY. Died May 14, 1997 following a long and courageous battle with cancer. Born in the Bronx, she lived most of her life in Brooklyn. Member of the NY State Nurses Association, she worked for Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center for most of her career retiring 
 BELFORD-Anne. A beloved friend and confidant to three generations of the Rosen family. Miss Anne was more than a coworker, she was part of our family. For over 50 years at Junior's Restaurant she was a tremendous contributor to the success we have enjoyed. She shared more than just working 
 BERNSTEIN-Claire. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted mother of Lucille and Lou Jacobs, and George and Harriet Bernstein. Adored sister of the late Lou and Mickey Greenberg. Loving grandmother of six and great grandmother of 12. Her kindness, sincerity and generosity will be missed. 
 BIERNBAUM-Helen. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their long time good friend and extend sincere sympathy to her husband and family. Leonard Danon, President       
 CLYNE-Katherine E. Passed away on Sunday, May 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Irving M. Clyne. Devoted mother and friend of Robert. Loving sister of Marion Hirsh, Ralph Friedberg and the late Frank Friedberg. Her kindness and caring will be missed by all whom she touched. In lieu of flow
 HEART-Rose. On May 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Heart. Loving mother of the late Candace Ella Heart. She is survived by her sisters Bertha Fields and Louise Stockman, brother Leo Cooper & many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grand-nephews. A member of the Brandeis University N
 JATLOW-Celia. On May 25, 1997. Beloved wife of Jack. Survived by her daughter, Ellen Gruber, and son-in-law, Fred, grandchildren Jennifer and Marcie. Services Tuesday, 11:45 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MOHTARES-Nada (nee Seaman). On May 22, 1997, of Bronxville and Southampton, NY. Beloved wife of Alexander Mohtares. Loving mother of Philip and Victoria Mohtares and Elizabeth Mohtares Meaders. Devoted sister of Barbara Railsback and Joan Corr. A Memorial service will be held at 11 AM on Th
 BARON-Freda. Devoted wife of the late Sidney. Beloved mother of Leonard and Phyllis, Martin and Judith. Loving grandmother of Randi, Stephen, Caryl, David, Amy and David. Proud great-grandmother of Stuart and Lindsay. She will be in our hearts forever. Services at ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 3
 BARTLETT-Elsa. The Department of Psychiatry at New York University Medical Center mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Elsa Bartlett, a valued and respected research scientist. For 15 years she made major contributions in the imaging of the action of antipsychotic drugs in the 
 BIERNBAUM-Helen. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Helen Biernbaum. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Ralph and their beloved family.       
 FEHER-Margaret. On Memorial Day in NYC. Born May 16, 1911. Granddaughter of Mayor Schroeder of Brooklyn. Assisted husband, Milton in running Milton Feher School of Dance and Relaxation. Formerly associate director Morningside Heights Inc., a community planning organization. Also worked for 
 HEART-Rose. On May 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Heart. Loving mother of the late Candace Ella Heart. She is survived by her sisters Bertha Fields and Louise Stockman, brother Leo Cooper & many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grand-nephews. A member of the Brandeis University N
 JATLOW-Celia The East 55th St Conservative Synagogue sorrowfully records the loss of its esteemed and beloved synagogue Board member. Our deepest sympathy to her husband, Jack, and the family members. Rabbi Reuven Siegel Daniel Hirtenstein, Pres. Lawrence Levine, Ch of Board       
 McGANN-Sr. Ellen Rita. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, dedicated educator of many students, on May 27, 1997. She is survived by her niece Anne and her nephews Neil and Denis. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St., Yonkers, NY Thursday 18
 SCHACK-Harold Joseph. On May 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Celestine Schack. Loving father of Celeste Schack and Valerie DeBoni and her husband Graziano. Adoring grandfather of Lorenzo and Lamberto. Dear brother of Lynn Kessler. Friends may call at the Abbey in the Frank E. Campbell Building
 ARKIN-Rose G., daughter of Max & Fanny Garfunkel, passed away peacefully on Wednesday, May 28, 1997, at the Sarah Newman Home in Mamaroneck. Her age was 97 years young. Her outlook, her poetry, and her joy of life remain an inspiration to her children, grand & great-grandchildren and her fr
 BERNE-Selma. Passed away peacefully after a prolonged illness on May 27, 1997. Loving mother of Karen Rook and Elliot Stetzer. Beloved grandmother of eleven grandchildren and great grandmother of four with two on the way. We were all blessed to have her in our lives. Services scheduled for 
 CAREY-Rita A. Died May 29, 1997 in Rochester, N.Y. Formerly of NYC. She worked for the BBD&O Advertising Agency and PC Data in New York. Survived by three sisters, a brother and several nieces and nephews. Services entombment will be held Saturday, May 31 at White Haven Memorial Park. Schau
 FISCHBEIN - Frances. Beloved wife of the late Saul Fischbein. Loving mother of Leslie and Peter. Cherished grandmother of Glynn, Pamela and Scott. Her love and beauty will be with us forever. Services Thursday, May 29th, at 2 PM, at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. 
 GOLDSTEIN - Pearl Kalman. Adored wife of Kenneth. Beloved mother of Lynne Warshaw, Sandra Kalman and Suzanne Sedge. Cherished grandmother of Beth and Garrett Warshaw and Luke Sedge. Dear sister of Herbert Gottlieb. Her price was far above rubies. Services Friday at 11:30 AM at Temple Sholom
 GREGG-Dr. Dorothy. The Board of Trustees and staff of WNYC Radio deeply mourn the loss of the longtime director of the WNYC Foundation and former secretary of the Board. We are grateful for her years of dedicated service and extend our deepest sympathies to Dr. Paul Scott and the entire fam
 KING-Katharine Paula (Reed), formerly of New York City and Westport, CT., died suddenly and comfortably in Berkeley, CA., on Monday, May 26, 1997. Survived by her father, Kurtis Reed of New York City; two daughters, Victoria Lewis and Natasha Desgans, two grandsons, and husband, John Matthe
 KIRBY-Joyce A., 80, died at home, May 27, 1997. Ms. Kirby was born in New Rochelle, N.Y. She received a Master's Degree in Social Work from Columbia University. She had a long, and distinguished career as a Social Worker in New York City, the Virgin Islands and Florida. She was a beloved su
 KOLBERG-Helen Hirsch. Of Hackensack, New Jersey. Formerly of Dumont, New Jersey. On May 29, 1997. Loving wife of the late Jerome. Best friend of her daughter Mimi Stone. Mother-inlaw of Elhanan C. Stone. Devoted Honey to her grandson David Wallace and Lauren Goldberg. Caring sister-in-law o
 PERLMAN-Sidney. The partners, associates and staff of Podell, Rothman, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our dear friend and client, the distinguished chairman of the board of Adams & Co. Real Estate. Sidney will be missed by all of us, but especially by our senior partner, Bert Podell
 SIMON-Ethel. Beloved wife of Myron. Loving mother of Andrea, Peter and Vicky. Dear sister of Selma Stein. Cherished grandmother of Danielle and Joel. Service Friday, 11 A.M., at Temple Kol-Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York. SIMON-Ethel. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Co
 TEPPER-Regina, of Yonkers on May 28, 1997. In 1995 her life story was chronicled in the off-Broadway play, ''Coming Through'' which described her experiences at Ellis Island and her ensuing life. Devoted wife of the late Harry Tepper. Loving father of Bobbi and her husband Bruce Fabricant o
 VOGEL-Helen M., on May 28, 1997 in her 96th year. Cherished wife of the late Peter Vogel, M.D. Devoted mother of Dr. James M. Vogel and Josephine V. Wolk. Adoring grandmother of Douglas D. Wolk and Jennifer N. Vogel. Beloved sister of the late Ruth J. Mandlebaum and the late Daniel Mandleba
 ZEITZ-Ann N., on Tuesday, May 27, 1997, of Bethesda, Maryland. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Zeitz. Devoted mother of Carl (Elaine) Zeitz and Deede (Larry) Snowhite. Loving sister of Harry (Fay) Black. Adoring grandmother of Josh, Andrew, Robert and Nate. Services at the Northern Virgini
 Robbie Tilley Branscum, whose books for young readers bore the stamp of her hardscrabble childhood in rural Arkansas, died on May 24 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 62. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Deborah. Born in Big Flat, Ark., she wa
 Maria Weigl Piers, an authority on psychosocial development in childhood and founder of the Erikson Institute for Advanced Study in Child Development in Chicago, died on May 21 at her home in Chicago. She was 85. Dr. Piers was internationally recognized for applying psychoanalytic c
 GILLEN-Rose R., 85, a retired hospital administration specialist and civic volunteer, died at home in the Boulevard Gardens, Woodside, Queens, on May 29, 1997 after a long illness. The widow of the late Patrick A. Gillen, a former officer of Local 15 of the Operating Engineers and a well kn
 HOWARD-Marilyn. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LEVINSON-Grace, age 90, died on May 29th, 1997 after a brief illness. Devoted teacher at Morris High School in the Bronx for 35 years and member of the United Federation of Teachers executive board. Avid tennis player and world traveler. She will be missed by her sister-in-law, Lillian Levi
 SAROFSKY-Miriam. Temple Hillel North Woodmere L.I. records with profound sorrow the demise of Miriam Sarofsky and extend sincere condolences to her beloved daughter Doris Richgat and the entire family. Dr. Alan F. Lavin, Rabbi Paul Kaye, President       
 SHERMAN-Florence. Of Lake Worth, Florida, formerly of Eastchester, NY. passed away on May 29, 1997. She was the loving mother of Jay Sherman, Scott (Jolie) Sherman and Terri (William) Duff. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Margaux, Jennifer, Mark, Elizabeth and Madeleine. Graveside service
