 Betty Roche, a singer who performed with Duke Ellington in the 1940's and 50's and was noted for her strong, dramatic delivery of blues material, died on Feb. 16 at the Mainland Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Pleasantville, N.J. She  was 81. ''She had a soul inflection i
 AVRACH-Joyce, age 73, died peacefully on February 20, 1999. Beloved widow of David, she is survived by her brother, Buddy Sertner, three children Linda, Robert and Donna and her five grandchildren, Pamela, Andrea, Matthew, David and Jamie. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Donati
 BAUMGART-Seraphina Stella. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Loving mother of Beth Gralnick and Richard Baumgart. Grandmother of Bob, Kate and Sarah. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, 10:00 AM at Larchmont Temple, Larchmont, NY. Interment is private. Memorial 
 BAYER-Berta A. 83. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman S. Loving and devoted mother of Les of East Meadow and Arlyne of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of Eric and Lauren Bayer and Holly Baumgold. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to a charity of your choice. Serv
 BELDOCH-Hannah. She was ''Grandma Honey'' to the five Hochfelder boys and their wives: Jim and Ellen, Tom and Lynda, John and Janet, Andrew and Patricia, Peter and Stacy; and ''Great-Grandma Honey'' to Amy and Scott, Adam and Amy, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harr
 BELDOCH-Honey. Died peacefully in her ninety-sixth year. My best friend and mother-in-law for fiftysix years. The matriarch of the Hochfelder family. We will all miss this elegant, wise, strong, courageous, gracious lady. She will be especially missed by her loving and respectful son-in-law
 COHEN-HEPNER-Rita. 74, on Friday, February 26. Wife of Morton Hepner and the late Irving Cohen. Survived by her daughters Barbara Weingarten of Hartsdale, NY, Gail Tupper of New York City, her grandchildren Marisa and Alison Weingarten and Jordan and Dustin Tupper, her brother Arthur Katz a
 DESMOND-Trudy. Peacefully at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, February 19, singer Trudy Desmond, loving sister of Ellen and Jeffrey, beloved daughter of Ethel and the late Raphael Salwen. She will be dearly missed by all those who experienced the joy of knowing her personally and profes
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life a
 FEIRING-Ruth M. 87, Sarasota, died February 20, 1999. She was born September 7, 1911 in New York City and went to Sarasota 27 years ago. She taught history and economics at Richmond Hill and Martin Van Buren High Schools and was a college adviser to graduates. She received a bachelorsdegree
 FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace
 GOOZMAN-Clara. Wife of the late Max. Died Saturday, February 27. She was beloved by four children, five grandchildren, three greatgrandchildren and a sister. Burial is today at Star of David in Broward County, Florida.       
 GORDON-Miriam (nee Brodlieb). On February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Gordon, loving mother of Ellen Milberg and Ronald Gordon. Mother-in-law of Leonard Milberg and Claire Gordon. Proud and loving grandmother of Brian Gordon, Elizabeth Gordon, David & Melinda Milberg, Daniel a
 JARMAK-Ethel. Age 86, West Palm Beach, died February 26, 1999. Formerly of White Plains. Pre-deceased by her husband Jack in 1991. Beloved mother of Michele and Alison (Mrs. Richard Reider). Services 2 PM, Monday, March 1, 1999, Palm Beach Memorial Park, Boynton Beach. In lieu of flowers, H
 KESSLER-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Devoted mother of Lisa, Jonathan, Diana, and Susie. Adored grandmother of Samantha, David, Daniel, Alexis and Jordan. She delighted in her family's simchas. Services Tuesday 2PM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. 
 KULICK-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Saturday, February 20, 1999. She will be missed. Services were held February 22, 1999 at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Pompano Beach, FL. Melvin Michaelson, Preside
 MAUALA-Robin E. G. Passed away on February 21. Beloved wife of Nusi and cherished mother of Mele. Her vivacious character, endless enthusiasm, and generous nature will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service will be held at the U.N. Chapel, February 26th beginning 
 TIMPSON-Marcelle Vallon. Of Lawrence, LI, on February 27, 1999, in her 101st year. Wife of the late Carl W. Timpson, Sr. Mother of Brenda Koehn, Carl W. Timpson, Jr., and the late James Timpson. Grandmother of eight and greatgrandmother of 14. Funeral private.       
 TROSTEN-Anne Belkin, who died February 27, 1999, in Chatham, NY, was born in Torrington, CT, in 1901. She graduated in 1922 from the Brooklyn Jewish Hospital School of Nursing. Mrs. Trosten is the widow of the late David Trosten of Brooklyn, NY. She is survived by her sons, William Trosten 
 ZARKIN-Ruth. Age 85, of Tamarac, FL. Passed away February 28, 1999, at her residence. She is survived by her husband Philip and her sons, daughter-in-law and grandchildren. Graveside services will be held Tuesday at 1:30 at the Beth David Cemetery in Elmont, NY. For information contact Rive
 AVRACH-Joyce, age 73, died peacefully on February 20, 1999. Beloved widow of David, she is survived by her brother, Buddy Sertner, three children Linda, Robert and Donna and her five grandchildren, Pamela, Andrea, Matthew, David and Jamie. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Donati
 BAUMGART-Seraphina Stella. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Loving mother of Beth Gralnick and Richard Baumgart. Grandmother of Bob, Kate and Sarah. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, 10:00 AM at Larchmont Temple, Larchmont, NY. Interment is private. Memorial 
 BAYER-Berta A. 83. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman S. Loving and devoted mother of Les of East Meadow and Arlyne of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of Eric and Lauren Bayer and Holly Baumgold. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to a charity of your choice. Serv
 BELDOCH-Hannah. She was ''Grandma Honey'' to the five Hochfelder boys and their wives: Jim and Ellen, Tom and Lynda, John and Janet, Andrew and Patricia, Peter and Stacy; and ''Great-Grandma Honey'' to Amy and Scott, Adam and Amy, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harr
 BELDOCH-Honey. Died peacefully in her ninety-sixth year. My best friend and mother-in-law for fiftysix years. The matriarch of the Hochfelder family. We will all miss this elegant, wise, strong, courageous, gracious lady. She will be especially missed by her loving and respectful son-in-law
 BURAWOY-Bertha. The family of Dr. Berthe Burawoy of Forest Hills is sad to announce her death on February 24, 1999. Any messages of condolence to her family should be sent care of Maya Pines, 4701 Willard Avenue, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815.       
 CUNNINGHAM-Helen F., 75. Of Crestwood Village, Whiting, NJ, died Sunday, February 28, 1999 at Community Medical Center, Toms River, NJ. Born in New York City June 6, 1923, she lived in Norwalk, CT prior to moving to Whiting, NJ in 1998. She worked for the Social Security Administration in N
 DESMOND-Trudy. Peacefully at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, February 19, singer Trudy Desmond, loving sister of Ellen and Jeffrey, beloved daughter of Ethel and the late Raphael Salwen. She will be dearly missed by all those who experienced the joy of knowing her personally and profes
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life a
 FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace
 GORDON-Miriam (nee Brodlieb). On February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Gordon, loving mother of Ellen Milberg and Ronald Gordon. Mother-in-law of Leonard Milberg and Claire Gordon. Proud and loving grandmother of Brian Gordon, Elizabeth Gordon, David & Melinda Milberg, Daniel a
 HORN-Carol Petegorsky. The Mental Health Association of New York City mourns the passing of Carol Petegorsky Horn, former executive director and distinguished mental health advocate. Her contributions will long be remembered. MHA Officers and Directors Giselle Stolper, Exec. Dir.       
 KESSLER-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Devoted mother of Lisa, Jonathan, Diana, and Susie. Adored grandmother of Samantha, David, Daniel, Alexis and Jordan. She delighted in her family's simchas. Services Tuesday 2PM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. 
 KULICK-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Saturday, February 20, 1999. She will be missed. Services were held February 22, 1999 at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Pompano Beach, FL. Melvin Michaelson, Preside
 LEONARD-Elizabeth Peach, 87. On February 22, in Albuquerque, N.M. She was preceded in death by her husband Richard Anthony Leonard. Born in Emporia, KS, a graduate of the University of Kansas, she lived for many years in New York City and Larchmont. She was a board member of the Riverdale C
 MANCUSO-Anna C. Caliendo. On February 26, 1999 in Richmond, VA. Wife of the late Vincent J. Mancuso. Adored mother of Barbara Mancuso of NYC and Carol and John Napier of Richmond, Va. Grandmother of Christopher, and Emily and Keith Mumford, greatgrandmother of Annie Mumford, all of Richmond
 MAUALA-Robin E. G. Passed away on February 21. Beloved wife of Nusi and cherished mother of Mele. Her vivacious character, endless enthusiasm, and generous nature will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service will be held at the U.N. Chapel, February 26th beginning 
 MORRIS-Kathleen E. Age 77. Of Dayton, OH, died Sunday, Feb. 28. Formerly a resident of Toledo, OH and an employee of Owen Illinois Corp. Born in the Bronx, NY. She was a graduate of St. Nicholas of Tolentine High School, a Member of the Church of the Incarnation Parish in Centerville, OH an
 SHIELDS-Eileen R. Beloved daughter of Henry Richard and the late Frances. Loving cousin of Sandy Storfer, Ronald and Dennis Shields. She was a psychotherapist for over thirty years and will be sorely missed by her family, friends, colleagues and clients. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, at Riversi
 SLUTZKY-Goldye, 88. Of Hunter. Died February 27, 1999 at her residence. She was born on May 2, 1910 to Michael and Tillie Frank Honigsbaum in Tannersville. She was a member of the Sisterhood of the Hunter Synagogue and the Daughters of Hadassah, and was an active fundraiser for the United J
 WEISS-Freida E. Passed away February 28, 1999. Wife of the late Morton. Loving mother of Sandra Hyman. Devoted grandmother of Betsy and Lowell. Great grandmother of Michael and Natalie. She will be remembered as a media director in the advertising world. She will be loved and remembered by 
 Judge Mary Johnson Lowe, a Federal judge in the Southern District of New York who was known for her rulings in discrimination cases, died  Saturday at a hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 74 and had homes in the Bronx and Las Vegas. The cause was heart failure, and she had been in 
 AVRACH-Joyce, age 73, died peacefully on February 20, 1999. Beloved widow of David, she is survived by her brother, Buddy Sertner, three children Linda, Robert and Donna and her five grandchildren, Pamela, Andrea, Matthew, David and Jamie. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Donati
 BAUMGART-Seraphina Stella. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Loving mother of Beth Gralnick and Richard Baumgart. Grandmother of Bob, Kate and Sarah. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, 10:00 AM at Larchmont Temple, Larchmont, NY. Interment is private. Memorial 
 BAYER-Berta A. 83. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman S. Loving and devoted mother of Les of East Meadow and Arlyne of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of Eric and Lauren Bayer and Holly Baumgold. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to a charity of your choice. Serv
 BELDOCH-Hannah. She was ''Grandma Honey'' to the five Hochfelder boys and their wives: Jim and Ellen, Tom and Lynda, John and Janet, Andrew and Patricia, Peter and Stacy; and ''Great-Grandma Honey'' to Amy and Scott, Adam and Amy, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harr
 BELDOCH-Honey. Died peacefully in her ninety-sixth year. My best friend and mother-in-law for fiftysix years. The matriarch of the Hochfelder family. We will all miss this elegant, wise, strong, courageous, gracious lady. She will be especially missed by her loving and respectful son-in-law
 BERKLEY-Esther, 77 on March 2, 1999. Beloved wife of Dr. Joseph, devoted mother of Alan, Janet and Linda; loving grandmother of Joshua, Sara, Sammy, Shannon, Benji and Brett. No wife could have given more; no mother could have loved more. She was adored by her children and grandchildren. Sh
 CLARK-Mary Frances (nee Hayes) March 1, 1999, at home in Nashua, NH. Also of Sarasota, FL. Formerly of Burlington, VT. Beloved wife of Edward A. Clark. Cherished mother of Mary Ellen and Joseph Levin, Frances and Bruce Wenner, Kathleen Clark, Joan Clark and William Guis, John Clark, and Edw
 DESMOND-Trudy. Peacefully at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, February 19, singer Trudy Desmond, loving sister of Ellen and Jeffrey, beloved daughter of Ethel and the late Raphael Salwen. She will be dearly missed by all those who experienced the joy of knowing her personally and profes
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life a
 FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace
 GORDON-Miriam (nee Brodlieb). On February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Gordon, loving mother of Ellen Milberg and Ronald Gordon. Mother-in-law of Leonard Milberg and Claire Gordon. Proud and loving grandmother of Brian Gordon, Elizabeth Gordon, David & Melinda Milberg, Daniel a
 HOOK-Louise. The residents of Round Dune will miss ''Esie'', shareholder and daughter of the founders of our co-op, Lawrence and Louise Snell, and dear friend. Our profound sympathy to her daughter, grandchildren and family. Stephen H. Deutsch, President       
 KESSLER-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Devoted mother of Lisa, Jonathan, Diana, and Susie. Adored grandmother of Samantha, David, Daniel, Alexis and Jordan. She delighted in her family's simchas. Services Tuesday 2PM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. 
 KULICK-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Saturday, February 20, 1999. She will be missed. Services were held February 22, 1999 at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Pompano Beach, FL. Melvin Michaelson, Preside
 LIEBERMAN-Minnie. We mourn the loss of a dear friend, Minnie Lieberman. As a Founder of the Medical Center, together with her late husband Hyman, the Liebermans played a vital role in providing for the spiritual needs of our patients and staff through their naming of the Hospital's Bet Midr
 LOWE-Mary Ruth Johnson. It is with deep sorrow that the family of Mary Ruth Johnson Lowe announces her death on Saturday, February 27th. A memorial service will be held on Friday, March 5th at 3 P.M., in the Nave of the Riverside Church, 120th Street and Riverside Drive. LOWE-Mary J
 MANDEVILLE-Ann Adams. Buffy Mandeville died peacefully at her home in Fairfield, Connecticut on the evening of March 1, in her seventy-second year. She is mourned by her daughter Meredith Hollis and sons Christopher, Matthew, Kempton, Jonathan, & William Mandeville, her son-in-law James Hol
 MAUALA-Robin E. G. Passed away on February 21. Beloved wife of Nusi and cherished mother of Mele. Her vivacious character, endless enthusiasm, and generous nature will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service will be held at the U.N. Chapel, February 26th beginning 
 STEVENS-Rosemary, M.D. Of Sarasota, Florida. A retired Optomologist. Widow of John Martin Stevens, formerly of New York, N.Y. Passed away in her sleep on 1 March 1999 after a lengthy illness. She was born in Berlin, Germany as Rose Marie Czellitzer, on 23 December 1907. Surviving are sons M
 WANN-Lois. Mannes College of Music deeply mourns the passing of Lois Wann, who taught oboe at Mannes for thirty years. Her creativity and advocacy of the oboe will be missed.       
 Dusty Springfield, the smoky-voiced English torch singer whose interpretations of pop ballads were suffused with a heartbroken wistfulness, died on Tuesday at her home in Henley-on-Thames, near Oxford, west of London. She was 59. The cause was breast cancer, said her agent, Paul Fen
 LIEBERMAN-Minnie. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a valued friend and Chai Founder who continued the legacy of her parents, the legendary ba'aley tzedokah and chesed, Andrew and Rose Miller. Mrs. Lieberman, together with her late husband, Hyman, and brothers Leon Miller and the la
 ALLEN-Anna Rearick (Nan). Died March 2, 1999 in Exeter, N.H. She was born on May 7, 1913 in Summit, N.J. and graduated from the Kent Place School and Vassar College. She earned an M.A. from Columbia Teachers' College and, 25 years later, an M.S. in Library Science from Rutgers. She worked a
 BERKELEY-Esther, 77 on March 2, 1999. Beloved wife of Dr. Joseph, devoted mother of Alan, Janet and Linda; loving grandmother of Joshua, Sara, Sammy, Shannon, Benji and Brett. No wife could have given more; no mother could have loved more. She was adored by her children and grandchildren. S
 BLOCH-Joyce. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our friend and long-time supporter, Joyce Bloch. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, Ephraim, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director       
 JOSEPHSON-Jean C. (McCall) of Monroe Twp., NJ, died Tuesday, March 2. Wife of the late Emanuel Josephson, M.D. Former comptroller of United Cerebral Palsy Association, NY. The great great niece of King Christian IX of Denmark & granddaughter of Prince John of Denmark, she held the title of 
 MANDEVILLE-Ann Adams. Buffy Mandeville died peacefully at her home in Fairfield, Connecticut on the evening of March 1, in her seventy-second year. She is mourned by her daughter Meredith Hollis and sons Christopher, Matthew, Kempton, Jonathan, & William Mandeville, her son-in-law James Hol
 McSHANE-Agnes M. A longtime Public Affairs manager for Borden, Inc. in New York City, Agnes M. McShane died at the age of 78 at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY on March 3, 1999. Ms. McShane was an active parishioner of St. Matthew R.C. Church of Hastings-on-Hudson, where she was a Euchar
 PLEISSNER-Marion W.G., 97, of Manchester, Vermont, died Sunday, February 28, 1999 at her home in Manchester. A memorial celebration of Mrs. Pleissner's life will be held on Saturday March 6, 1999 at 11am at the First Congregational Church of Manchester in the small chapel. Committal will be
 SOBEL-Irene (Rusty). Of Woodmere, New York. Died on March 3. Beloved wife the late Paul Sobel. Loving mother of Barbara Goetz Gelb (Joe) and Richard Sobel. Adored grandmother of Andrew Goetz, Lucy Leung, Jane Goetz and Lindsay Sobel. Irene was a career woman most of her life and a community
 TERNER-Mathilda, 88, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Oakhurst, NJ, on the 3rd of March. Cherished and beloved wife of the late Emanuel M. Terner for 67 years. A loving mother to Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman. Mother-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandmother of Peter (Joseph
 WEINSTEIN - Rosetta. Passed away Tuesday, March 2, 1999 at the age of 92. Services will be held at Riverside, 21 West Braod Street, Mt. vernon Friday, March 5 at noon. Mrs. Weinstein founded in 1928 the first private vocational school for medical and dental technicians. She served as Presid
 BOONE-Ruth Jackson. Died Tuesday, February 2 in Kennett Square, PA. She will always be lovingly remembered by her children Susan, Daniel and James, her son-in-law Rick, daughters-in-law Deborah and Meredith, and as their beloved Nana, by her grandchildren Linda, Garrett, Sarah, Gage, Wilson
 CASPER-Hazel F. Born 1912. Died peacefully on March 4, 1999 after nine years of suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Survived by her daughter Virginia, grandson Evan and daughter-in-law Donna Futterman of New York, and sister Esther Delcourt of Paris.       
 FEINBERG-Constance. (nee Buxer). 75. March 3, 1999. Beloved wife of Seymour. Cherished mother of Andrew and Kenneth. Adored sister of Joseph and the late Florence. Loving grandmother of Caroline and Lance. Devoted mother-in-law of Rikki and Adele. A wonderful friend. After earning her Ph.D.
 GERRY-Marjorie Kane. Died on March 4 at the age of 89 following a short illness at Delhi, N.Y. Widow of the late Elbridge T. Gerry who died on February 26. She is survived by two sons Elbridge T. Jr. of Locust Valley, N.Y. and Peter G. of Hopewell, N.J., a daughter Marjorie G. Ryland of Bev
 LAPPIN-Eleanor T., January 13, 1935-March 4, 1999. Mrs. Lappin, a 35 year resident of Elwood, was President and founder of Patel Security, a licensed polygraph business in service to industry and the legal profession. She was a recognized expert witness in the Federal Court, a member of the
 MANDEVILLE-Ann Adams. Buffy Mandeville died peacefully at her home in Fairfield, Connecticut on the evening of March 1, in her seventy-second year. She is mourned by her daughter Meredith Hollis and sons Christopher, Matthew, Kempton, Jonathan, & William Mandeville, her son-in-law James Hol
 MURPHY-Rebecca Rico. The Department of Social Work at New York Presbyterian Hospital mourns the death of their esteemed colleague, Rebecca Rico Murphy, and extends condolences to her husband Chris and her family.       
 NICHOLS-Joyce N. On March 3 after battling Parkinson's Disease. Retired as Director of Scarsdale Public Library (1982-1992), she lived in Nyack, NY. Survived by her husband Robert J. Trudell, Retired Greenburgh Library Director; Children, Briar DeVito, Tobin Nichols and Kyle Nichols; stepch
 SAYLES-Hope. At her home, Laurelmead, Blackstone Boulevard, Providence, RI, February 27, at age 92. Daughter of the late Frank Arthur Sayles and Mary Dorr (Ames) Sayles. A resident of New York for much of her life, she was an assiduous world traveler. She is survived by a nephew, Paul C. Ni
 SCHWEITZER-Anna. (nee Rothschild), 89, died on March 4, 1999. Beloved mother of Frances Turner Karten and Marvin Cohen. Adored stepmother, mother-in law, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She was a true Aishes Chayil whose giving knew no limits. May her memory be for a blessing.       
 TERNER-Mathilda, 88, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Oakhurst, NJ, on the 3rd of March. Cherished and beloved wife of the late Emanuel M. Terner for 67 years. A loving mother to Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman. Mother-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandmother of Peter (Joseph
 WEXLER-Elizabeth. To our beloved ''Grandma Libby,'' we thank her for showing us how happy we made her. Her love will always remain in our hearts. Carol, Jack and Jenny Posen, Ken, Leslie, Michael and Zoe Abelson WEXLER-Elizabeth (Libby), 92, March 3, 1999. Devoted wife of the late J
 Mathilda Terner, who engaged in philanthropy with her industrialist husband, Emmanuel, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88 and also maintained a home in Oakhurst, N.J. Together Mrs. Terner and her late husband made possible the Mathilda and Emmanuel M. Terne
 GERRY-Marjorie Kane. Died on March 4 at the age of 89 following a short illness at Delhi, N.Y. Widow of the late Elbridge T. Gerry who died on February 26. She is survived by two sons Elbridge T. Jr. of Locust Valley, N.Y. and Peter G. of Hopewell, N.J., a daughter Marjorie G. Ryland of Bev
 HELFER-Rose (nee Prizer). Loving and loved wife of Mac. Cherished mother of Steve, Jerry, Eileen and Allen Scherl. Adored grandmother of Brett, Lindsay and Todd Mitchell, Alexis and Jason Scherl. We will all miss her love, compassion, concern and values. Funeral services Sunday, March 7th, 
 PANKEN-Harold. Temple Shaaray Tefila offers its heartfelt condolences to our Assistant Rabbi Melinda Panken on the passing of her grandfather. Our deepest sympathy to Rabbi Panken, her parents Beverly and Peter, and brother Aaron. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen R. Saxl, President     
 TERNER-Mathilda. The Board of Trustees and President of Manhattan School of Music offer our deepest sympathy to devoted and valued Trustee, Nancy Terner Behrman on the passing of her beloved mother Mathilda. We extend our most sincere and heartfelt condolences to her family. David A. Rahm, 
 CAVIOR-Shirley (nee Miller) on January 30 in Boston, MA. Age 96. Beloved wife of the late Joel H. Cavior. Much loved mother of Warren J. (Mariko) Cavior, Jay M. Cavior and Dr. Stephen R. Cavior. Grandmother of Mayu and Sam. She personified in a long life the old-time Yankee values of her ch
 CHECHANOVER-Sue Carol. Of Petaluma, CA, passed away on February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of Victor, mother of Robert, Paul and Michael, mother-in-law of Janine, Caryn and Vivian, grandmother of Elizabeth, Lauren, Peter and Julianne. She was very active in her community dedicating her life to 
 GERRY-Marjorie Kane. Died on March 4 at the age of 89 following a short illness at Delhi, N.Y. Widow of the late Elbridge T. Gerry who died on February 26. She is survived by two sons Elbridge T. Jr. of Locust Valley, N.Y. and Peter G. of Hopewell, N.J., a daughter Marjorie G. Ryland of Bev
 HAMBURGER-Gisela. Age 99. ''Omi.'' Beloved mother of Ruth and son-in-law David. Grandmother of Karen, Dave, Sharyl, Gregg and Laurie, and great-grandmother of Kurt, Ben and Amanda. She escaped from Nazi Germany in 1939 to Haiti and settled in Vineland, NJ, where she guided survivors in seek
 KATZ-Bette, Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Commack, New York, on February 25, 1999. Beloved wife of Arthur, loving mother of Steven and Ellen. Devoted to her many friends and to her students and colleagues at Hauppauge High School and Forest Brook Elementary.       
 MARTZ-Evelyn P. Beloved mother of Joan Singer. Proud grandmother of Jonathan and Jacqueline. Fearless, strong and larger than life. Her courage and love nourish us. Memorial services were held on March 5th in Sunrise, Florida.       
 MAYER - Gerda Gernsheim, Ph.D., on March 2, 1999 in her 91st year. Born Worms, Germany. Beloved wife of the late Mor Mayer. Sister of the late Hildegard Gernsheim Mayer. Cherished cousin. Long time medical researcher in New York City at Mount Sinai and Columbia Presbyterian Hospitals. Priva
 METZGER-Ruth. On March 4, 1999 at the age of 89, after deteriorating health and a two month hospitalization. She will be missed by her daughter Susan, her son-inlaw Paul Gurwitz, and by her beloved grandson Joshua Gurwitz. Funeral Services will be held on Sunday, March 7 at 11AM at Schwarz 
 SCHMITT - Elizabeth Norton. March 4, 1999. Loving daughter of the late Philip Schmitt, Jr. and the late Mary Pearl Norton. Beloved aunt of Rosemarie S. Vietor and her husband Richard and great aunt of Abigail Vietor and Samuel Nicholls, III. Service Monday 11AM, March 8, St. James Church, M
 SCOTT-Jane Chadbourne. Of Locust, NJ, died March 3, 1999, at the age of 85. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, George C. Scott. She is also survived by her sister, Elizabeth C. Du Bois, of Beachwood, her niece, Nancy Chadbourne Mills Crabbe, also of Beachwood, and by great-nieces V
 STERNLIGHT-Pearl Donn. Died Thursday March 4 at age 97. Widow of Morris H., she is fondly and appreciatively remembered by her children Mary Joan and Peter, her grandchildren Chris, Eric, Jean and Judy and great-grandchildren Ashleigh and Joanna. Dance and yoga teacher, artist, draftsman an
 TERNER-Methilda. The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the death of longtime member and friend, Methilda Terner. We send our sincere condolences to her family. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary       
 VERN-Harriet, 81. Died peacefully in Orlando, FL., after a long illness on February 26, 1999. Predeceased by her husband, magazine photographer, Ike Vern, on February 23rd, 1987, and her son, Andrew Vern, December 17, 1977. She was a passionate feminist, fighter for human rights, innovator 
 WINOKUR - Beatrice S. (nee Rosenhaus). Wife of Harry Winokur, deceased. Born September 13, 1910, New York City. Died March 3, 1999, North Miami Beach, FL of emphysema and the smoking of 438,000 cigarettes, a conservative estimate. Executive Secretary in the Purchasing Department of Israel Z
 WOLFSON-Edith C. On March 4, 1999, born in Budapest, extraordinary woman of indomitable spirit. Precious wife of Cyril of NYC, cherished mother of John Varsa of Albuquerque & Susanne Moore of NYC, grandmother of Sabrina Absera of Negril and Toronto, Sali Moore of St. Paul, great-grandmother
 Harriet M. Waddy, one of the two highest-ranking black officers in the Women's Army Corps in World War II and its wartime adviser on racial issues, died on Feb. 21 in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 94. In April 1943, First Officer Harriet West, as Harriet Waddy was then known, made a radio
 Lois Wann, an oboist who played in several American orchestras and taught at the Juilliard School and the Mannes College of Music, died on Feb. 23 at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 87. Ms. Wann who was born in Monticello, Minn., in 1912, studied the oboe and piano as a child i
 BASS-Anne Loewy. Died peacefully at home on March 5, 1999. Cherished mother of Rena Bass Forman and son-in-law Dr. Scott Forman. Adoring grandmother of Leila and Zaria. Anne was a survivor whose existence was challenged many times during her lifetime. She will always be remembered by her fa
 EPSTEIN-Minnie, 103. Died peacefully at home on March 6. Her loss will be mourned by her loving children, Mary Jo Hamburger and William Easton, and their spouses, Robert Hamburger and Margarita Easton. Her grandchildren will miss Nana since she was important to all of them, Bobby and Peter 
 RABINS-Lillian. Devoted wife of the late Herman Rabins. She was cherished by her children, Ellen and Hubert Cohen, Elaine and Bob Adamenko, and Joan and Michael Rabins. Devoted grandmother to Andrew, Terry, Evan, Alix, Robert, Katherine and Richard. Loving sister of Sylvia Gayle and Florenc
 RUBEN-Sadie. Beloved wife of the late Julian. Devoted mother of Dr. Robert Ruben and Cookie Slater. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, Ann, Emily, A.J. and Karin, and great-grandmother of Patrick, Molly, Eliana and Zev. Gravside services Monday, 12:30 PM, at Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, 
 SCHMITT - Elizabeth Norton. March 4, 1999. Loving daughter of the late Philip Schmitt, Jr. and the late Mary Pearl Norton. Beloved aunt of Rosemarie S. Vietor and her husband Richard and great aunt of Abigail Vietor and Samuel Nicholls, III. Service Monday 11AM, March 8, St. James Church, M
 TROSTEN-Eugenie (Gina) S. 64, of Austerlitz and Manhattan died Wednesday in Hudson, NY after a brief illness. Mrs. Trosten, born December 4, 1934 in Munich, Germany emigrated to the U.S. in 1960. She was devoted to her family, friends and the welfare of animals. Survived by her husband, Wil
 WORTHINGTON-Audrey J. Born January 17, 1937, in Swampscott, Mass., and raised by her parents, Emerson and S. Eugenia Pierce, both deceased. She attended the Jeremiah Burke High School and graduated in 1954. She then attended Boston University School of Nursing. She stopped her schooling whe
 Ann Corio, the auburn-haired, green-eyed queen of burlesque whose long-running show, ''This Was Burlesque,'' kept alive the art of strippers and the comedy of baggy-pants clowns in the age of the X-rated film, died on March 1 at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. Ms. Corio, a resident of
 Barbara Pfeffer, a photojournalist whose pictures appeared in Life, People, Town and Country and other magazines, died March 3 in her Manhattan home. She was 65. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Doris Pfeffer of Manhattan. Ms. Pfeffer, a New York City native, grad
 Helen Priest Rogers, an authority on dance notation, a co-founder of the Dance Notation Bureau and a pioneer in the use of film to preserve choreography, died on Mar. 2 at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Brattleboro, Vt. She was 85 and lived in West Brattleboro. Ms. Rogers, who stu
 CASSEL-Sandra. The Board of Governors and the members of Rock Rimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their esteemed member and extend sincere sympathy to her husband and family. Leonard Danon, President       
 CHIVIAN-Anna Levy. A well known local singer in her youth, as well as a prize winning sculptor who studied with Chaim Gross, died in her sleep on Saturday, March 5, 1999, at her home in South Orange, NJ. She was 96. Born on February 10, 1903 in Newark, NJ, she was the daughter of Sadie and 
 EISENBERG-Esther. The Board of Trustees and President of Manhattan School of Music offer heartfelt condolences to longtime piano faculty member and devoted Trustee, Constance Keene, on the passing of her mother, Esther. In honor of her parents, Ms. Keene has established The Eisenberg Concer
 HOLMES-Theresa. The Board of Trustees and family of St. Clare's Hospital mourn the passing of our colleague and friend. She was Director of Admitting for 20 of her 22 years at St. Clare's. She was a skillful administrator and devoted to St. Clare's. Our most sincere condolences are extended
 KARSH-Jack. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Frieda Karsh, on the loss of her husband, Jack. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 KONHEIM-Natalie B. Of Longboat Key, Florida. Died March 7, 1999 at the age of 81. Natalie lived in Woodmere, New York, until ten years ago when she moved to Longboat Key. She is survived by her husband, Norris Konheim, to whom she was married for 60 years. She is also survived by her daught
 PINKHAM-Mary S. (''Bunnie''). On March 8, 1999. Born in New York City December 28, 1916, the dear daughter of the late William W. and Mary G. Struthers. Adoring wife of Richard Alden Ray Pinkham, whom she married in 1941, who died in 1997. Loving and dedicated mother of Mary P. (''Penny'') 
 SUMNER - ROTHENBERG - Pame la. 42. Beloved wife of Richard Rothenberg, died suddenly on Saturday, March 6, 1999. She is deeply mourned by her parents, Martha and Nolan Sumner of Dallas, Texas; by her in-laws, Marion and Jack Rothenberg of New York; by her brother, Bill and his wife, Sabrina
 BLAIR-Leona (nee Feldman). On March 8, 1999, after a valiant struggle with spinal cancer. A cherished cousin; beloved friend, and superb storyteller, ''Noni'' enriched our lives by her knowledge, humor and love. Memorial service is planned for April. The Weiss, Rosinoff, and Berkson Familie
 FROST-Linda. Of Great Neck, NY and Williams Island, FL. Passed away March 4, 1999 at age 58 after a long illness. Beloved wife for thirty years of Jerry Frost. She will always be remembered for her beauty, grace and compassion. Services will be held Friday, March 12, 1999 at 12:00 noon at R
 GAMMAGE-Katherine E. The family of Katherine Gammage deeply mourns her passing suddenly on March 8, 1999 at the age of 87. Wife of the late Combs. Most beloved mother of Elizabeth Rankin and John. Loving and devoted grandmother of Laura Stokes, Pamela Kier, Susan Munn & John Jr., great gran
 LINDQUIST-Margaret Joan. On March 8, 1999 of New York City. Loving wife and best friend of husband, Robert F. Lindquist. Dearest sister of Mary Wiley, Patricia Hansen and John McCormack. Relatives and friends are invited to attend religious services Thursday 10:00 AM at Diffily Funeral Home
 SACHS-Rita. Teacher, of Jamaica, New York, died on March 7, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Nathan J. Sachs, she was cherished by her children, Alma Daniel and Arthur and Sara Sachs, and her grandchildren, Peter, Anthony, Nora, Tom, Becky and Jon. She was the beloved sister of Gilda Nelson a
 SELEY-Charlotte A. March 9, 1999. Loving mother of Elisabeth, John, and Carolyn, son-in-law David, daughter-in-law Liz. Cherished sister of Helen. She was a graduate of Hunter College where she worked for 34 years in the Dept. of Education. Funeral services are private. In lieu of flowers, 
 SUMNER - ROTHENBERG - Pamela. 42. Beloved and cherished wife of Richard Rothenberg, died suddenly on Saturday, March 6, 1999. She is deeply mourned by her parents, Martha and Nolan Sumner of Dallas, Texas; by her inlaws, Marion and Jack Rothenberg of New York; by her brother, Bill and his w
 Peggy Cass, a brassy-voiced comedian best known for her portrayal of the pregnant, unwed secretary in ''Auntie Mame,'' died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, Eugene Fe
 EVANS-Ruth L. On March 9, 1999. Beloved wife of Dr. Hugh Evans. Devoted mother & mother-in-law of Margo, Marc, Mr. David Manspeiyer and Dr. Adelaide J. Evans, cherished sister and sister-in-law of Mr. & Mrs. Laurence B. Orloff. Loving daughter of the late Dr. Aaron & Sara Orloff. An educato
 FLYNN-Phyllis. 60. Of Northfield, VT, formerly of Hudson View Gardens, New York City, died March 3, 1999. She began her library career as an archivist with the Jung Foundation in NYC. Later she was employed by the American Jewish Committee, in the Blaustein Library also in NYC. Survived by 
 HARRIS-Harriet Wisniewski, MD. On March 9, 1999. Loving wife of the late Lewis Harris, beloved mother of Mark and David Harris both of New York City, cherished sister of Chet and Ray Wisniewski, and friend and colleague of the staff of St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. Funeral services ar
 MOSS-Eleanor T. On March 9th, 1999, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, formerly of Manhattan. Survived by loving daughter Susan Budzynski, seven grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. She will be greatly missed.       
 NADLER-Gladys. Tifereth Israel/ Town & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol J. Green       
 ROGERS-Helen Priest. Dance Notation Bureau mourns the loss of a co-founder, friend, and gracious lady. Her belief never wavered. We thank her family for naming the DNB as recipient of donations in her memory. The Dance Notation Bureau       
 RUBIN-Pearl. On March 9, 1999, of Hallandale, FL. Much beloved wife of Frank. Adored mother of Janice & Ian, Norma and Howard, Cynthia and Corinne. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. May she forever rest in peace. Graveside services Friday, March 12, at 10:30 A.M., at New Montefio
 RUKIN-Eleanore. Age 82. Of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Teaneck and Saddle River, NJ, on March 10, 1999 at her daughter's home in New Jersey. Eleanore gave freely of her generous, caring spirit with dignity, humor and wisdom. An inspiration to all who knew her, Eleanore's gifts of light
 SAMUELS-Barbara L. Died peacefully at home on March 7 at the age of 98. Widow of the late Martin Samuels, she lived a long, lively and independent life, with good health and all her marbles. Last survivor of the five Lindner sisters and their brother, she leaves, through them and through Ma
 WILLIAMS-Gwendolyn M. Lutheran Medical Center mourns the loss of Gwendolyn Williams, a dedicated member of our Board of Trustees who cared deeply about our mission to serve our patients and our community. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her husband Claude Oliver and all of her family.
 WISNIEWSKI-Harriet M., MD. The Sisters of Charity, Board of Trustees, Auxiliary and Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center note with sadness the death of our long-time friend and colleague, Dr. Harriet Wisniewski. Dr. Wisniewski was an ardent supporter of the values and mission
 BELDOCH-Honey. A Memorial Service to celebrate the life of Honey Beldoch, who died peacefully on Feb 20th in her sleep. Her Florida friends and relatives are invited 1:30pm on Saturday Mar 13th at 130 Sunrise Blvd, Palm Beach.       
 COTTER-Richard J., Jr. Of Duxbury, Mass, March 9. Retired attorney and horse breeder. Son of the late Richard J. and Louise (Carr) Cotter. Brother of the late Pauline L. Moran who died in 1993. Dear uncle of Cynthia L. Moran of Sutton, Mass and Diana Chabrier and her husband Wilfred of West
 EVANS-Ruth L. The Englewood Hospital and Medical Center Board of Trustees expresses profound sorrow on the passing of our long-time benefactor and friend, Ruth Evans. She was a shining example of courage and warmth, and will be missed by the entire Medical Center family. We extend our deepe
 HECHT-Gery. A woman of extraordinary talents, adored by her family, friends and clients. Interior designer, chef, backgammon ace, gardener and superlative mother, mother-in-law and grandmother. She is survived by her daughter, Lynn Hecht Schafran, her son-inlaw L. G. (Larry), and grandchild
 HOLMES-Sallie, Ackley, 69 of Greenwich Village, died Sunday, March 7 at NYU Hospital. She was born in Philadelphia, PA, April 17, 1929 and resided in Jenkinstown, PA until 1950 when she moved to NY. She attended Smith College, and the Latin American Institute. She retired from Shearson Lehm
 LEITMAN-Reggie. We deeply mourn the passing of Reggie Leitman, an ardent Zionist and a longtime community leader. She and her late husband, Aleck, were deeply treasured for their heartfelt generosity and philanthropic efforts. As major benefactors of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, they
 LOVER-Melanie Jill. Age 43, on March 10, 1999 at her home in West Orange, NJ. Beloved wife of Jim Schlink, daughter of Vera and sister of Melissa. She will be deeply mourned by her family, her many friends and respected colleagues. Melanie received an undergraduate degree in Music Education
 WALL-Virginia Gardner Fincke. Born in Boston, MA. October 28, 1905. Died at home March 11, 1999. Widow of Albert Carey Wall. Resident of New York City and Fishers Island, N.Y. She is survived by two daughters, Virginia Fincke Thors, Maria Wall Patterson, and six grandchildren. Funeral servi
 BELDOCH-Honey. A Memorial Service to celebrate the life of Honey Beldoch, who died peacefully on Feb 20th in her sleep. Her Florida friends and relatives are invited 1:30pm on Saturday Mar 13th at 130 Sunrise Blvd, Palm Beach.       
 Bidu Sayao, a Brazilian soprano whose gossamer voice and vivacious personality made her one of the most popular stars of the Metropolitan Opera from the late 1930's through the 40's, died yesterday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me. She was 94 and lived in Lincolnville, Me.   
 BRILL-PAAR-Judith. Age 63. Died March 12, 1999. Loving wife of Bill. Sister to Michael. Mother of Jason and Adam. Grandmother to Spencer, Leo and Rachel. Mother-inlaw to Gail and Susan. Aunt to Melissa and Brandon. A great lover of life, laughter, her friends and family, she will be deeply 
 RECKNAGEL-Katharine Lanier. Died on March 11; born 1902 in Baltimore, Maryland, daughter of Berwick Bruce Lanier and Emily Parker; wife of the late John H. Recknagel; mother of James W. Johnstone of Wynnewood, PA., Robert M. Johnstone of Melfa, VA, Tomas B. Johnstone of Sunbury, OH and daug
 SAYAO-Bidu. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of one of our greatest and most beloved artists, soprano Bidu Sayao. Her debut here in 1937 in the title role of Massenet's ''Manon'' began a love affair with the New York public which was enchanted by this small, beautiful woman with an u
 WALL-Virginia Gardner Fincke. Born in Boston, MA. October 28, 1905. Died at home March 11, 1999. Widow of Albert Carey Wall. Resident of New York City and Fishers Island, N.Y. She is survived by two daughters, Virginia Fincke Thors, Maria Wall Patterson, and six grandchildren. Funeral servi
 DENERSTEIN-Loretta B. Today on her birthday we remember with love her sweet smile, her unconditional love and her unending devotion to us, her children and grandchildren. She was a remarkable woman. We miss her so. Susan and Harris       
 Muriel Bentley, an early member of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) who was praised for her comic gifts and witty dancing, died on Monday at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Bentley was probably best known 
 COHEN-Adele B. March 8, 1999 in New York City. She leaves her brother, Marshall J. of Manchester, CT. Funeral arrangements are private. For information, LaddTurkington Funeral Homes, Vernon, CT.       
 ENGLISHER-Dorothy. The Board of the YM/YWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood mark with great sadness the death of Dorothy Englisher, a longterm Washington Heights resident and early supporter of the Y. She introduced her son Martin to this agency and encouraged him throughout his successful
 GARB-Ethel. On March 12, 1999. At Hallandale, Florida. Adored and loving mother of Carolyn and Bernard Lippert, Phyllis and Bernard Putter, Sharron and Paul Weiner. Cherished grandmother of Sari and Doug, Hildy and Donald, Joseph and Sonia, Lauren and Andrew, Kenneth and Nanci, Vicki and St
 GELLER-Malcia. Died on March 1st, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Israel Geller, cherished mother of Martin J. Geller and Ellen H. Kamaras, loving grandmother of Joshua, Jackie, Sarah, Harrison and Logan. A true eshet chayel, a woman of valor, far beyond pearls was her value. She devoted her
 GOLDFRANK-Brenda. Of Manhasset, NY, died on March 11, 1999. She was predeceased by her loving husband Richard and son Bruce. She is survived by her daughter Diane Richards and her grandson David Goldfrank. Mrs. Goldfrank was born in 1915 in Northampton, MA, and attended Colby-Sawyer College
 HUDDLESTON-Alma Robinson. On February 28, 1999 in her 90th year in Gadsden, AL; formerly of NYC. Widow of William E. Huddleston, Jr., of Clanton and Tuskegee, AL. Loving mother of twin daughters, Patricia Byrd Huddleston, wife of the Hon. James Douglas Martin, of Gadsden, AL and the late An
 KINOY-Susan. The Block Island (RI) community of Susan's friends mourns her passing after so many years at her joyous summer home. She takes with her a portion of the beautiful island landscape that is so dear to all of us & to which she contributed so much. She made us see afresh each seaso
 MATTLAGE-Louise. Multi-talented modern dance, artist, and poet died on March 9, 1999, in Boca Raton, FL. She was 92, and the cause was advanced Alzheimer's Disease. A sophisticated woman with a wide range of cultural interests, Ms. Mattlage's career took her from modern dance with Jose Limo
 MERRILL-Meg. Beloved wife of Si Merrill, dear mother of Michael Kiddon, loving grandmother of Chloe and Olivia Kiddon and daughter-in-law Joan Kiddon. Her only other survivor is her brother, Joseph Hartman, of Memphis, Tenn. She was the author of two successful Simon & Schuster books on nee
 MEYRICH-Marion S. 92, of Sarasota, FL, died March 11, 1999. Born on June 20, 1906 in NYC where she taught for 30 years. Survivors include son, Victor, grandson, Hart, niece Mona. No services planned. Donations may be made to American Civil Liberties Union. Remains will be placed next to her
 WALL-Virginia Gardner Fincke. Born in Boston, MA. October 28, 1905. Died at home March 11, 1999. Widow of Albert Carey Wall. Resident of New York City and Fishers Island, N.Y. She is survived by two daughters, Virginia Fincke Thors, Maria Wall Patterson, and six grandchildren. Funeral servi
 Muriel Bentley, an early member of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) who was praised for her comic gifts and witty dancing, died on March 8 at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Bentley was probably best known
 GOLDFRANK-Brenda. Of Manhasset, NY, died on March 11, 1999. She was predeceased by her loving husband Richard and son Bruce. She is survived by her daughter Diane Richards and her grandson David Goldfrank. Mrs. Goldfrank was born in 1915 in Northampton, MA, and attended Colby-Sawyer College
 OBLER-Ida (Aida). On March 14, 1999. Former resident at 400 East 52nd Street in the city she loved, New York, and recently at Senior Quarters in East Northport, NY. Mother of Marcia Fisher, three grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, and an extended family of hundreds. She lived the fair
 DALE-Sharon (Pesin Blank). Beloved wife of Floyd P. Blank. Devoted mother of Lisa Dale Goldberg. Cherished daughter of Molly (nee Singer) and the late Harry Pesin. Dear sister of Stuart Pesin and a friend to all who knew her. Services at Plaza Memorial, 91st and Amsterdam Ave, N.Y., N.Y. Th
 HORNSTEIN-Eva. Born November 2nd, 1911. Died March 14, 1999 in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Devoted wife of Hyman Hornstein. Cherished mother of Barbara Kass and Richard Hornstein, son-in-law & daughter-in-law, Herbert Kass & Marie Hornstein. Survived by dear sister & brother, Gertrude Hornstein & 
 LEVINE-Minna (Hershfield). On Monday, March 15, of North Andover, MA. Beloved wife of the late Samuel A. Levine. Loving mother of Charlotte J. Lynch and her late husband Kalman of Andover, MA., and the late Edward Levine. Dear aunt of Janet Horwood of Chicago, IL. Cherished grandmother of S
 LUDEMAN-Patricia M. ''Trisha''. On March 14, 1999. Wife of the late Louis. Beloved and dedicated mother of Christopher, Louis, Gerard and Sue Ann Haesloop. Cherished daughter of the late Elizabeth and Harry Hickey, former Treasurer of the Brooklyn Dodgers. Dear sister of Betty and Dr. Herbe
 REEVES-Marion Diack. Of Solomons, MD., formerly of Warren, CT, on March 13, 1999. Beloved wife of Robert B. Reeves Jr., devoted mother of Robert T. Reeves of Annapolis, MD., Barbara Reeves Worthington of Baltimore, MD., and Carolyn Reeves Dunn of Ligonier, PA. She is also survived by 8 gran
 RUBINE-Vera (nee Newmark). Of Westfield, N.J. Beloved wife of George Rubine. Devoted mother of Allen Rubine & Marcia Masten. Adored grandmother of five grandchildren. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 756 East Broad St., Westfield, N.J. on Wednesday, March 17, at 10:30AM. For information
 WASHER-Helyne. The Jewish Center of Teaneck, and its constituent organizations, offer heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Judah Washer, on the passing of his devoted wife, Helyne. She was Rebbitzen and leader for many decades, beloved, admired, highly respected by all.
 WINN-Joan. Died at home on March 15, 1999. She was 89. A graduate of Charles University in Prague (Doctor of Laws 1933), she emigrated to the US with her husband and children in 1939 and became a citizen in 1944. She worked for many years on the Czech Desk of the Voice of America and as a v
 BLANK-Sharon (nee Pesin). Like a singular star, her brilliant radiance shone on all who knew her. We forever celebrate her love, her spirit and her friendship. She will never be forgotten. A friend       
 CHILCOTT-Ruth Hackney. Of New Vernon, New Jersey, at her residence on Monday, March 15, 1999. Wife of the late James Clemens Chilcott. Stepmother of Barbara C. Esten, Joan C. McKenna and Diane C. Carson; and aunt of Mary Goodrich Johnson and Lorraine G. Simonton. A memorial service will be 
 COHEN-Virginia J. Peacefully and stoically on March 15th, 1999 in her 95th year. She will be remembered lovingly. Her Friends       
 GERZOF-Sylvia. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of Sylvia Gerzof and extends their sincerest sympathy to her family. Robert Goldberg, President       
 MORGAN-Maud (Cabot). In Cambridge, MA, March 14, 1999. Mother of Victoria M. Benedict and Alexis Morgan both of Cambridge. Also survived by two nieces, her nephew and several grand nieces and grand nephews. Memorial services in the First Parish in Cambridge, 3 Church St., Harvard Square, Ca
 ROSS-Chester. The Board of Directors and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) note with sadness the passing of Chester Ross, beloved husband of Blanche Ross, esteemed Honorary Board Member of NYANA, and past-President of the Agency. On behalf of the NYANA family
 RUBINE-Vera (nee Newmark). Of Westfield, N.J. Died March 15, 1999 after a long illness. Wife of George Rubine. Mother of Marcia Rubine Masten of New York and Allen Rubine of Providence, R.I. Motherin-law of John Masten and Barbara Rubine. Grandmother of Benjamin and Andrew Masten, Daniel, M
 SAYAO-Bidu, March 12, 1999. Sony Classical mourns the passing of this great artist. She will be missed by all who experienced her in the opera house or heard her in concert and on recordings.       
 ADELSON-Edith. On March 15, 1999. Beloved wife of Bernard. Cherished mother of Joan Dwyer and grandmother of John Dwyer. Dear sister of Marvin Margolies. Service Friday, 12:30PM at Plaza Memorial, 91 St. at Amsterdam Ave., New York City. Contributions in her memory to: International Fund Fo
 CARDI-Arleen J. Wonderful wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend. Died peacefully surrounded by her loving family on March 15, 1999. She is survived by her husband, John, four daughters, Dawn, Donna, Christine, and Lorraine, and eight grandchildren. Friends may call Thursday 7 to 9:30
 FREIREICH-Susan Ellen. Born in South Bend, Indiana on October 30, 1944, died March 16, 1999. Beloved mother, companion, sister, daughter and friend. Service will be held on Thursday, 12 Noon, at Plaza Memorial, 91 St. at Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to: B'nai Jes
 GALLO-Mary (nee Derrico). March 17, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Cherished mother of Jean Arena and Josephine Pisterzi. Loving grandmother of Al, Katharine, Gianfranco, Christine, Joseph and Anne Marie. Great grandmother of Nicholas, Nicole and Gabrielle. She was a dedicated teach
 MARKMAN-Rose. There is never a good time for a life to end. Even though expected, the shock can be to hard to bear. Although Rose Markman was long in years, her mind was functioning as a young adult up until the last second of her life. To say we should celebrate her life and thank God for 
 McNAMARA-Virginia L. (nee Duffy). On March 16, 1999. Loving daughter of the late Louise Ryan and Edward Duffy. Beloved wife of the late James J. McNamara & sister of the late Anne Andrechak. Survived by her brother Edward Duffy and son Paul and family. Retired parochial school teacher and a
 RAFF-Rae Goldin. Sweet, unassuming lady who graciously gave of herself. We extend our sympathy to her family and especially to our treasured Judi Cohen. May her mother's memory be for a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President RAFF-Rae Goldin. Central Synagogu
 RUBINSTEIN-Danielle. The AntiDefamation League mourns the untimely passing of Danielle Rubinstein, a longtime member of ADL's International Affairs Committee. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director        
 BERNSTEIN-Flora Davis, loved by all who knew her. Mother of Karen and Lucille. Grandmother of Katharine, Barbara, Michael and Melissa. Beloved by Larry Goldberg, her son-in-law. A dedicated teacher and devoted friend. Memorial services at Plaza Memorial, Amsterdam & 91 St Friday,       
 CARDI-Arleen J. Wonderful wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend. Died peacefully surrounded by her loving family on March 15, 1999. She is survived by her husband, John, four daughters, Dawn, Donna, Christine, and Lorraine, and eight grandchildren. Friends may call Thursday 7 to 9:30
 GOLDSTEIN-Anne. Beloved aunt of Ruth Zeligs, of Cincinnati, Jules Ginsberg, of Florida, Sylvia Schlessinger, and Gilbert Graham of New York. Great aunt of Joseph Zeligs, Betsy Goldberg, Cary Browse, Nina Graham, Andrew Graham, Dan Graham, Deborah Graham, Robert Baker and Marilyn Fierro. Die
 GREENAWALT-Martha Sloan. Died March 17, 1999 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Kenneth and mother of William, Kent and Kim Greenawalt, and Ann Abernethy, with 16 grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. Outstanding civic and community leader throughout her life. Service will be held a
 LOWIN-Florence. We are saddened by the loss of our beautiful, sensitive and creative friend who died last Monday. Our sincere condolences are extended to her son Eric and her sisters Charlotte and Roslyn. The Briloffs       
 RAISBECK - Marcelle Ellinger. Died peacefully in her home in San Francisco at the age of 100 on March 1, 1999. She was married to the distinguished cardiologist Dr. Milton J. Raisbeck, who died in 1988, with whom she lived most of her life in New York. She is survived by a son, Gordon Raisb
 RAUFFENBART - Walter. We mourn the passing of a great legal scholar and publisher and the father of Suzanne Santry of our Board. We extend our love and sympathy to Suzanne and her mother, and all of their family. The Board of Overseers and Staff, the BCOA/HC       
 RIDDER-Ethelette French Tucker. Of New York City and Southampton on Tuesday, March 16 at Lenox Hill Hospital after a short illness. Mother of Susan Lane Ridder and Eric Ridder, Jr. of Bedminster, NJ and grandmother of Catherine Tucker Ridder and Eric Ridder, III. Longtime companion and spec
 SAICH-Margaret Brady. Of Sparkill, NY, formerly of Yonkers and Rye, died on Wednesday, March 17 at the age of 85. She is survived by one son, William of Hartsdale, NY; two daughters, Helen Senko of Brewster and Sister Margo Saich, O.P., a member of the Sparkill Dominican Order. For funeral 
 WATTS-Catherine Hillery. Died March 12, 1999. She attended Wilberforce University and NYU. Her lifetime career in social work was with the NYC Dept. of Social Services in projects such as Womens Shelters, Home Care Operations and the Social Service Welfare Center. Catherine was a valued par
 Vivian Hallinan, the striking matriarch of one of San Francisco's best-known and most colorful political families, died on Tuesday at a granddaughter's home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 88. Mrs. Hallinan, the widow of Vincent Hallinan, a fiery socialist lawyer who died in 1995, made 
 DEBBIE BOYLAN is a dinosaur and proud of it, the owner of an independent bookstore in Westchester County who is not persuaded that she wants to go head-to-head with Barnes & Noble and Amazon.com. Her customers at Good Yarns in Hastings-on-Hudson are more than happy to bring their ow
 Marian Searchinger, a New York theatrical agent, died on Monday at a convalescent home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 81. Ms. Searchinger's clients included such actors as Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee and Jane Alexander, the television writer Ernest Kinoy and the directors Franklin Schaf
 GORDON-Leonora. Devoted wife of the late Nash. Most dearly beloved mother of Marjorie Pacheco and Louis Gordon, mother-in-law to Joe and Amy. Loving grandmother of Jennifer and Michael, loving aunt and friend. Family was everything to her and she was everything to her family.       
 GREENAWALT-Martha S. The Members of the League of Women Voters mourn the passing of our leader, mentor and dear friend. Martha was President of the Greenburgh, Westchester, N Y State, and Tri-State leagues, a LWVUS Board Member and a life Member of the Scarsdale LWV. We extend deepest sympa
 GREENBLATT-Blossom. Loving wife of the late Paul. Devoted mother of Alan and Cindi and Mark and Lisa. Cherished grandmother of Staci, Jarod, Bari and Jena. Loving sister of Eugene. Funeral services Sunday, 10:30 AM at I.J. Morris, Inc., 46 Greenwich Street, Hempstead, NY. GREENBLATT
 RUBINSTEIN-Anne. 86. Family and friends wish to announce her death on Wednesday, March 17. Funeral Sunday, 11:00 AM, Weinstein Chapel, 1652 Central Park Ave., Yonkers, NY.       
 STERNBERG-Edith, 75. Of Bronx, New York. Devoted wife of the late David. Cherished and beloved mother of Elizabeth & Ernest and Jeanie & Andrew. Loving grandmother of David, Josh and Eric. Caring sister & aunt. A Holocaust survivor-the source of strength to all her family. Services Sunday 1
 BARRY-Rita. On March 19, 1999. She will be missed by her loving family. Sister Frieda Osias, daughter and son-in-law Gloria Cherry and Jules Lazar, grandson Ben Lazar, adored granddaughters and their husbands or partners, Sabrina Cherry and Marc Gourevitch, Dana and Paul Greci, Pamela and M
 GREENBLATT - Blossom. The partners and staff of Rochlin, Greenblatt, Gallo, LLP, mourn the passing of Blossom Greenblatt, mother of our esteemed senior partner Alan Greenblatt. Blossom was a devoted wife to the late Paul Greenblatt, mother and grandmother, a woman of high principles, courag
 HAUSSMAN-Lorraine V.. Film producer passed away quietly on March 14, 1999 in Acapulco, Mexico. Devoted daughter of Philippe Haussmann and the late Fay Haussman. Beloved sister of Claude Haussmann. She will be missed. Condolences can be sent to Claude Haussmann, 1619 Third Avenue, New York, 
 JACOFF-Natasha. Beloved wife and lifelong companion for 64 years to Richard. Devoted mother of Rachel Jacoff and the late Leonard. She gave of herself to everyone and was surrounded by love. Services Sunday, 1:30 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck.    
 LEIDERMAN-Anna (nee Plotkin). On Thursday, March 18, in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Adored mother of Al (Lillian), Ralph (Doris), and Bernice (the late Dr. Marvin) Fein. Loving grandmother to Michael (Hermine), the late Robert, Dr. Beth (Martin) Statfeld, Dr. Richard, Robi
 McNAMARA-Josephine B.. On March 19, 1999. Beloved daughter of the late Nicholas and Marie Bisulka. Dear friend of Michael R. McGarvey. Funeral services at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 122 E. 88 St. at Lexington Ave., Tuesday, March 23, 11 AM. Interment to follow at Trinity Church Mausoleum. In
 TOWNS-Kathryn, Ph.D.., Emerita Professor, The Pennsylvania State University. On February 22, 1999 in Harrisburg, PA. A memorial service was held on February 26, 1999, at the Penn State Capitol Campus where she had been instrumental in founding both the Community Psychology and Women's Studi
 WIMMER-Alice. Died March 17, aged 95, in her Berkeley, CA home. Born in Vienna, she lived in New York from 1940 to 1977. Widow of Hugo, Alice is survived by her daughter Gertrude Weil of Berkeley, son Harry Wimmer and his wife Shirley Givens of NYC, four grandchildren and two greatgrandchil
 JACOFF-Natalie. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 LION-Cecilia Margaret (nee O'Connell). Age 85. On March 20, 1999. Wife of the late David Henri Lion. Mother of Denise Lion, Brigid Campbell, D'Arcy Lion and David Lion. Grandmother of Elizabeth and Christopher Lion, James and Christopher Campbell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 WEISS-Rhoda. Of Weston, Mass. Formerly of Cranbury, NJ. Died on March 21, 1999. Beloved mother of Mickey (Brian) Strum, Stanley (Judi) Weiss; and Phyllis (Ed) Koban. Loving grandmother of Anna, Matthew, Elizabeth, Michael, Beth, Howie and Ira. Devoted sister of Bernard (Claire) Wasserman. F
 BERMAN-Beatrice Venetek. January 7, 1925 to March 21, 1999. Will be missed by her children, grandchildren, sisters and extended family. In lieu of flowers donations to American Cancer Society. She will be laid to rest at Mount Sinai Mortuary, Los Angeles, CA.       
 ENGLER-Lynne C. Died on March 18, 1999, at home in New York. She was 85. Much beloved, adored and loving mother of Carla Leigh Engler, grandmother of James Wylie Deitch and motherin-law of Edward G. Deitch. Lynne was a talented fashion designer of sophisticated loungewear and robes, women's
 GLOVER-Janet Eaton. 74. Died Saturday at her home in Hanover, NH. Beloved wife to Paul W. Glover Jr., Hanover, NH; loving mother to daughters, Margaret MacPherson Gardiner, Cornville, AZ., and Susan Gardiner Trespalacios, Morristown, NJ and sons, Peter Eaton Gardiner, Chestnut Hill, MA and 
 MILLER-Evelyn Kay, in Atlanta, Georgia, on March 19, 1999, in her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late Max Miller and Irving Adler Kay. Devoted mother of Michael and Ann Kay, and Jeffrey Kay. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Jennifer Kay and Alison and Todd Lubin. Services private. Cont
 PECKHAM-Janet G., Chairman and C.E.O. of Peckham Industries of White Plains, N.Y., died on Sunday, March 21, 1999 at her home in Chappaqua, N.Y. An active civil leader in the community for over thirty years, a life-long resident of Westchester County, Mrs. Peckkam was the widow of John S. P
 SCHWARTZ-Gertrude (Lefkowitz). A resident of South River died Sunday at the St. Peter's Medical Center, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Mrs. Schwartz was born in Jersey City and was 90 years of age. She is survived by her husband Abe Schwartz, a son Gary Schwartz of East Brunswick, four grandchi
 SIMON-Muriel. We mourn the tragic loss of our beloved Muriel. We will always remember her thoughtfulness, kindness and caring. Our thoughts are with Sherman and the family. We loved her and will miss her forever. Til Lee, Bert, Carol, Gene and Rita Rothkopf       
 WHYTE COTTON WRENN-Dorothy. Died on March 18, 1999 in Portland, Oregon, born in Auburn, NY, she attended The University Michigan and Columbia University. In a professional career devoted to journalism and public health education in the broadest sense, her special concern was with the rights
 ATAMIAN-Ines Locatelli. March 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Georges Atamian. Beloved mother of Christopher and Jean-Marie. Cherished grandmother of Narine and Stepan. Loving sister of Maxime Locatelli and the late Lena Locatelli. Service Saturday, March 27, 12 noon at Frank E. Campbell
 BARR-Jean Steadman. On March 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late David P. Barr, M.D. She is survived by her brother E. THomas Steadman, M.D. Services will be held at 3PM on March 29, at the Church of the Epiphany, 1393 York Ave at 74 St, NY, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to th
 HILLER-Ruth. Passed away March 21, 1999. 97 years of age, died at Tietz Nursing Home. Beloved wife of the late Gary, dear aunt of Rita and Frank Shewer, Karin, Kenny, and their families as well as her beloved caretaker, Lillian Chavez. Funeral was private.       
 PECKHAM-Janet G. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Westchester Arts Council mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague Janet G. Peckham. Cherished friend and wise leader, she shared her talents cheerfully. Her quiet accomplishments during more than 10 years as a trustee leave an indeli
 SCHWARTZ-Shirley. The bravest, most beautiful person. Adored by daughter Elizabeth Dellureficio, beloved by her sister Phyllis Fisher and cherished by her granddaughter Nika. Services Thursday 12:45PM at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Elizabeth Huckaby, who as a vice principal shepherded nine black students through the tumultuous integration of Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died on March 18 in Little Rock. Mrs. Huckaby, whose memoir, ''Crisis at Central High,'' inspired a 1981 television movi
 BLOOM-Haven Roller. Suddenly on March 24th, 1999, beloved daughter of Barry and Frances Bloom, cherished granddaughter of Betty Roller, the late James J. Roller, the late Murray Bloom and the late Fay Bloom. Dear niece of Jessica Roller and Carol Bloom Furman. She was a Class 9 student at T
 BLOOM-Haven. The Chapin School is deeply saddened by the loss of its student, Haven Bloom, beloved daughter of Fran Bloom, Director of Studies and Assistant to the Head of The Chapin School, and her husband, Barry. The Chapin community extends heartfelt sympathy to the family. Sandra J. The
 BLUMENSOHN-Icek. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Eva Zellner and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the families be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 BRINTON-Joan Marie. Age 56. Born in Seattle, Wa. Died at her longtime home in Brooklyn. Loving mother of Adam, Anthony and Matthew. She was an original who will be missed by many. Devoted to family, friends and community. Her kindness, selflessness, knowledge and gentle nature touched our h
 EISNER-Rita. On March 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Loving mother of Drs. Cathey and Kenneth Falvo. Adoring grandmother of Jessica. A graveside service Sunday 12:30 P.M., at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, N.Y. Contributions in her memory to Physicians for Social Responsibility/
 HEPNER-Doris Brian. Age 88. Died peacefully in her sleep on March 24, 1999.       
 RAUCH-Jeanette. (nee Breslau). In her 100th year, beloved wife of the late Sol Rauch. Loving mother of Lloyd & Midge, Dick and Joan. Adored grandmother of Nancy & Nasanal Yachnes, Debby Rauch, Bob and Linda Rauch, Steve and Carol Rauch, Linda & Brian Sokol. Proud great-grandmother of eight.
 STOMBLER-Bertha. The officers, staff and leadership of the Jewish Labor Committee share in the sorrow at the death of Bertha Stombler, mother of our dear friend and colleague, Natalie Cimbol. A devoted and loving mother to Natalie and her brothers, Eugene and Milton Stombler, she leaves a l
 BLOOM-Haven. A friend and classmate for the past 9-1/2 years. You will always remain in our thoughts and hearts. Mariel Poole The Chapin School, Class 9 BLOOM-Haven. Her sudden death is a tragedy that we will all have to endure. Condolences to Fran and Barry. The Heffner Family     
 DALLEK-Fanny. She enriched us with her wisdom, values, smiles and optimism. Survived by her daughter Shirley Cohen (Joe), son Godfrey, brother Jerry Rothman (Anita), brother-in-law Abner Jaffe, Godfrey's children, Dr. Nancy (Jeff Pearlstein), Steven, Shirley's children, Neil, Fred (Audrey),
 DAVIDOW-Claire Sondheim. A native of Reading, PA., where she was born March 4, 1908, passed away peacefully at her residence in San Mateo, CA March 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leonard S. Davidow whom she married November 12, 1931. Loving mother of Ann Hayes of Boulder, CO. and Willia
 FIELD-Miriam H., MD. On March 25, 1999, of Walnut Creek, Ca. Born in 1904 in Suwalki, then Russia now Poland. The youngest child of Hirsch Lewinsohn, she was educated in Hamburg, Germany, immigrated in November 1938 to the U.S. Widow of John Hirschfeldt Field, she leaves a loving and devote
 JORDEN-Deanna. It was with great sadness that our office learned of the passing of one of the most compassionate people. Deanna was a woman who never questioned the work her boards and owners requested of her and did it with great pride and joy. It is a rare pleasure when an employer can co
 KORPER-Hazel Priest, 87, wife of the late George W. Korper, Jr., died peacefully at home on Wednesday, March 24. She was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Priest of Providence and Narragansett, Rhode Island. Mrs. Korper was graduated from Lincoln School, Providence, and National 
 MISTROFF-Janet. March 25, 1999. Beloved lifetime companion of Thomas Epstein. She will be deeply missed by all of her family who loved her dearly. Memorial service Sunday, March 28, 1pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 ORKIN-Frances L., of Manhattan. Born July 11, 1916, died Thursday March 25, 1999 after a long illness. A former Information Officer for The United Nations and a longtime successful entreprenuer. Ms. Orkin loved people, loved life and loved New York City. She is survived by family members an
 ROSENBERG-Marjorie H. (nee Marjorie Sylvia Hillson), on March 15, 1999, age 82 years. Early years in Boston area, 55 years Larchmont, NY, relocated to Columbus, Ohio, November 1998. Predeceased last month by her husband of 57 years, internationally renowned scientist, Paul Rosenberg, Ph.D. 
 SCHWARTZ-Eleanor. Age 78. Of Pearl River, New York. Died peacefully on Thursday, March 25, 1999. Beloved wife of Dr. Nathaniel. Devoted mother of Harriett and Jay Glassman and Susan and Kenneth White. Adoring grandmother of Miriam and David Rukeyser, Juliane Glassman and Max White. Loving g
 Dr. Hildegard Elizabeth Peplau, a nursing educator who played a major role in developing the theory and practice of psychiatric and mental health nursing, died on March 17 at her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. She was 89. Dr. Peplau wrote a seminal text, ''Interpersonal Relations in N
 Lucienne Bloch, an acclaimed muralist whose most significant contribution to art may have been a series of surreptitious photographs she took in 1933, died on March 13 at her home in Gualala, Calif. She was 90. She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines o
 BRUNO-Cynthia Rae (nee Singer). Age 46. Our beloved Cindy died March 19, 1999 at home, after a fierce battle with breast cancer. Among many who will miss her, are her children Douglas, Matthew and Ethan, husband Vince, mother Susi Singer, father Arthur Singer, Gloria Singer and Grace Bruno.
 DALLEK-Fanny. We mourn the loss of a wonderful matriarch. Along with her loving husband, the late Nathan Dallek, she established the office furniture business that continues to flourish in its third generation. Heartfelt condolences to her daughter, Shirley Cohen, son Godfrey Dallek, brothe
 FELDMAN-Robin Miller. 59, passed away March 27, 1999, surrounded by her family, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Allen. Devoted and loving daughter of Anne Miller and the late Sidney J. Miller. Most beloved mother of Douglas, Todd and Gregg Feldman, sister of 
 FIELD-Miriam H., MD. On March 25, 1999, of Walnut Creek, Ca. Born in 1904 in Suwalki, then Russia now Poland. The youngest child of Hirsch Lewinsohn, she was educated in Hamburg, Germany, immigrated in November 1938 to the U.S. Widow of John Hirschfeldt Field, she leaves a loving and devote
 GOLDMAN-Bessie. Age 94. Died peacefully with her family at her side on March 26, 1999. A school teacher for 48 years and a life-long world traveler, she was admired by all who knew her. To her last days she retained her loving nature, wisdom, humor and independence of spirit with which she 
 IACCACI-Hope Norton. Passed away on March 20, 1999 at her home in Santa Barbara, California. She was 95 years old and died of natural causes. Mrs. Iaccaci, fondly known as ''Tita,'' was born in Greenwich, CT on October 27, 1903. As a young girl, she attended Miss Porters School, Farmington,
 KORPER-Hazel Priest, 87, wife of the late George W. Korper, Jr., died peacefully at home on Wednesday, March 24. She was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Priest of Providence and Narragansett, Rhode Island. Mrs. Korper was graduated from Lincoln School, Providence, and National 
 REID-Mabel. Died February 24, 1999. Born 1906, Jamaica, NY. Graduated from Vassar College and Columbia University. Resident of Garden City, NY for 27 years, Bridgeport, CT final five years. Retired as Director of Statistics and Studies, Visiting Nurse Service of NY, in 1966 after 30-year ca
 ROGERS-Pauline Washburn, 79 of Niantic, CT formerly of New York City, died on Friday, March 19, 1999. She is the widow of Francis Day Rogers. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 AM on Friday, April 2, 1999 at the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme, Lyme St, Old Lyme, CT. Donations
 TANNENBAUM-Belle. Beloved wife of Larry. Devoted mother of Stephen and Peter. Four adoring grandsons. She is also survived by her sister Laura Soberman. Services will held Monday 1 PM, at I. J. Morris, Inc., 21 E. Deer Park Rd, Dix Hills, NY.       
 VEIT-Rose Brooks, 78. Of Bradenton, FL, died March 24, 1999. Born in New York City, she moved to Bradenton in 1986 from there. She is a retired Administrator & Director of alumni affairs at Columbia University. She attended New York University. She is survived by her husband Ivan; a son, La
 BUCHBINDER-Dorothy. Most beloved mother of Carol and Rose (Jake). Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Doug, Cindy and Joy. Adored great-grandmother of Joshua, Jamie, Jordan, Nikki, Linnie and Sammy. Dear sister of Fay and Florette. She was a treasure to all she touched and her gifts are sprea
 DALLEK-Fanny. We mourn the loss of a wonderful matriarch. Along with her loving husband, the late Nathan Dallek, she established the office furniture business that continues to flourish in its third generation. Heartfelt condolences to her daughter, Shirley Cohen, son Godfrey Dallek, brothe
 GADDIS-Jane. The members of the Waverly Block Association mourn the passing of our beloved friend and neighbor, Jane, on March 27. Jane was a unique figure in our community. She attended community meetings, planted a small garden in Washington Square Park, tended the tree beds along Waverly
 GOLDMAN-Bessie. Age 94. Died peacefully with her family at her side on March 26, 1999. A school teacher for 48 years and a life-long world traveler, she was admired by all who knew her. To her last days she retained her loving nature, wisdom, humor and independence of spirit with which she 
 SCHERL-Bessie. Of Miami Beach, FL. Former partner at the Park Terrace Caterers of the Bronx, and the Fountainhead of New Rochelle. Beloved wife of the late Ted. Devoted mother of Allen and Eileen Scherl, Stanley and Marge Lewin. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother of Jason and Alexis S
 SHOENIG-Carol. Park East Synagogue sadly mourns the passing of Carol Shoenig, beloved sister of our devoted member and Sisterhood Trustee, Barbara Kasell. To her, her husband David, and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vic
 SLATER-Dionne R. Of Locust Valley, LI, on March 27, 1999. Beloved wife of Alexander B. Mother of Henry L. Murray, Jr., Margaret M. Sullivan, John M. Murray, Catherine W. Murray, and her stepchildren Kathy S. Hart, Alexander B., Jr., and Serena S. Wilson. Sister of Mary Louise Smith. Grandmo
 STAUB-Susan. 54, a New City resident of 27 years, died on Wednesday, March 24, 1999 in Nyack Hospital. Beloved wife of Michael and devoted mother of Amy and Craig. Susan was the middle school science teacher and lower school science coordinator at Reuben Gittelman Hebrew Day School for the 
 BUTTE-Sara Catherine. Died suddenly in her home on March 15, after a brief illness. Beloved aunt of Porter, Sharon and Geoff Gifford. Beloved great aunt of Carrah, Barrett, Gillian, Virginia, Armando, Geoff and Lindsay. Dear friend and sister-in-law of Pete Gifford. Loved and mourned by man
 DAVID-Mollie. Beloved wife of the late Hy. Devoted mother of Dan and Margo, Mel and Jerry. Cherished grandmother of Butch, Hy, Michelle, Bruce, Marla and Adam. Loving great grandmother of Brandon, Casey and Michael. Dear sister of David Mathathia, Anne Lerman and Esther Dastis. Graveside se
 HEAPHY-Kathleen (nee Reilly). Died at the age of 83 on March 29, 1999. Born in County Cavan, Ireland. Survived by two daughters, Brenda Brunelle and Rita Boyd, two grandchildren, Philip and Thomas, two sisters, Margaret Timoney and Annie Reynolds plus many loved nieces, nephews and cousins.
 LEVY-Jeanette. Of Woodside, Queens. A kind, loving soul, passed away March 28, 1999 after a brief illness. All donations to be made to the UJA Federation in her memory. She will be sorely missed. Her loving family       
 SLATER-Dionne R. Of Locust Valley, LI, on March 27, 1999. Beloved wife of Alexander B. Mother of Henry L. Murray, Jr., Margaret M. Sullivan, John M. Murray, Catherine W. Murray, and her stepchildren Kathy S. Hart, Alexander B., Jr., and Serena S. Wilson. Sister of Mary Louise Smith. Grandmo
 WEINGARTEN-Alison. 20, of Hartsdale, NY, on March 28th, 1999, of Leukemia. She is survived by her mother, Barbara, Michael Zinman, her sister, Marisa, her aunt and uncle, Gail and Floyd Tupper, and her father, Andrew of South Salem, NY. Funeral services Tuesday, at 11:30 AM, at ''The Rivers
 ZUCKERMAN-Evelyn. Adored wife of the late Phillip. Proud and loving mother to Howard & Roz, Rochelle & Leo Goldberg, Steven & Shelly. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. A high spirited woman with a contagious zest for living, a quick wit and generous heart that was used for both t
 Her hair is boyishly cropped, her clothes are casual, and while riding her bike around Cape Cod she could pass as a college freshman. But Dr. Lene Vestergaard Hau is no freshman. A teacher at Harvard University and an accomplished experimenter, she has gained a formidable reputation
 BRANDT-Claire (nee Grabois) on March 30th, 1999 at the age of 89. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Neil and Susan and Lawrence and Lois. Cherished grandmother of Michael & Minna, Richard, Heather, Brooke and Gary Fishkind, and Michelle. Proud great-grandmother of Zachary B
 CHODOROV-Rhea. Died at home in Pomona, NY on March 28, 1999. She was 85. Rhea will be greatly missed by Jerome, her husband of 67 years, a daughter, Susan and many other family members and friends. In lieu of flowers, send donations to Association for the Vision Impaired, 260 Old Nyack Turn
 DAVID-Mollie. Beloved wife of the late Hy. Devoted mother of Dan and Margo, Mel and Jerry. Cherished grandmother of Butch, Hy, Michelle, Bruce, Marla and Adam. Loving great grandmother of Brandon, Casey and Michael. Dear sister of David Mathathia, Anne Lerman and Esther Dastis. Graveside se
 DiCAPUA - Marie. Lost her struggle with cancer after a valiant two year fight. Aided by her daughter Maria Sicurelli Wist, she searched for a cure and participated in experimental treatments all over the world. Through her illness she never lost hope that these experimental therapies would 
 GRAHAM-Marion. Central Synagogue Sisterhood notes with sorrow the death of Marion Graham, a longtime member of our Board and a past Vice President. We extend condolences to her family. Central Synagogue Sisterhood Shirley Steinhauser, President       
 MESCON-Florence on March 27, 1999 in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted mother of Richard and Michael. Dear mother in law of Miriam. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Jennie, David, Daniel and Hannah. Adored sister of Shirley Leitstein and aunt of Robert, Alex and Bruce Leits
 ZUCKERMAN-Evelyn. Westchester Day School records with sorrow the passing of Evelyn Zuckerman, who with her late husband Phillip were among the zealous founders of our school. We extend warm condolences to their dear family.       
 ABZUG-Bella S. The Board of Directors and staff of the Women's Environment and Development Organization mourn the loss of our beloved and dynamic co-founder one year ago today. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughters and family and renew our pledge to honor Bella's legacy to the wor
