 LEE--Gertrude Our ma triarch died peacefully June 30th, 2006, surrounded by her family. Gertie's life was filled with long-standing friendships, devotion to her family, and with charitable works. She was generous and thoughtful. Her sense of humor was renowned and her storytelling a delight
 STURGES--Alice S. On June 29, 2006. She was the widow of John M. Sturges and is survived by her son, John M. Sturges, Jr., her daughter, Mary S. King, eight grandchildren and seventeen great-grandchildren. A family funeral service will be followed by a memorial service at a later date      
 WILF--Judith. An elegant and gracious woman who will be missed by all those whose lives she touched. We extend our sympathy to her beloved family and to her many friends. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Reuth Ursula Merkin, Chair Rosa Strygler, President     
 ADDINGTON--Anne, Ph. D.Age 68, died peacefully at home in Greenwich, CT on June 10th after living with Multiple Sclerosis for 12 years. A native of Lake Forest, IL, she was the daughter of the late James R. Addington and Sarah Wood Armour, who survives her, as does her brother Whitney W. Ad
 BEARD--Margaret (Marion) Cuthbert. Died surrounded by her family on June 18 at Hope Hospice in Cape Coral, FL. She was born February 15, 1927, in Detroit, MI, and married John H. Beard in 1949. Mrs. Beard earned a BA in English literature and an MS in special education from Wayne State Univ
 DANIELI--Francesa. Mother, sister, daughter, friend, wife, and artist...we all lost a beautiful woman on the the evening of June 27. Francesca has shown remarkable grace, strength & dignity, having first faced cancer 22 years ago when diagnosed with Hodgkin's Lymphoma; then with breast canc
 GERST--Hilde W. A prominent art dealer and gallery owner in New York City, died on June 30, 2006, at the age of 98. Born in Central Europe and educated at French boarding schools, she traveled widely after World War II, which provided her the opportunity to collect works of art and antiques
 LOBIANCO--Anna. True partner of Bolivar Chiq Avila. Mother of Ruby and Dario. Sister of Yummy and Nina. Daughter of Dora and Tony. Ferocious mother, ferocious friend, compelling and powerful teacher and leader. Bravest of the brave young women. Her bright star shines on us all. Family and f
 MOSCHEL -- Ann Wasser man, 91, formerly of Indianapolis, IN, and East Brunswick, NJ, died May 4, 2006. Her husband, Irving, predeceased Ann on April 16, 2006. Graduating Mt. Sinai School of Nursing in 1936 and earning a nursing administration certificate from Columbia University, she served
 STATHAKOS--Alkione. Died on June 30, 2006, in New York City. Beloved wife of James. Loving sister of Anthony Giovan. She was adored as Aunt Alkione, with many nieces and nephews who are living all around the world. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, Madison Ave at 81s
 STERN--Enid. 1200 Tenant Corp. records with deep sorrow the passing of our leader, Enid Stern. For more than twenty years she guided the affairs of our building with grace and wisdom. Her many grateful friends at 21 East 87th Street/22 East 88th Street extend their heartfelt condolences to 
 STERN--Enid Gardiner. Died on June 29 in her Manhattan residence, succumbing to lung cancer after a year of illness. A native New Yorker, she attended the High School of Music and Art and Hunter College. Upon graduation she became an illustrator for William Douglas McAdams, a pharmaceutical
 STURGES--Alice S. On June 29, 2006. She was the widow of John M. Sturges and is survived by her son, John M. Sturges, Jr., her daughter, Mary S. King, eight grandchildren and seventeen great-grandchildren. A family funeral service will be followed by a memorial service at a later date.     
 SWETZ--Elizabeth (Betty), died June 19th, 2006. Born September 11th, 1923 in Byesville, OH, she received her RN from the Cadet Nursing Corps and her BSN from Capital University, OH. In 1960 she moved to NYC, began working at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center until retirement in 1999. A l
 ROSENBLATT--Hortense, (nee Weinstock), died on May 31, 2006 in San Franciso at the age of 85. Pre-decaesed by husband William, she is survived by her daughters Nan and Jane, son-in-law Jeffrey, brother Louis, and grandchildren Zachary and Lauren. Her fun loving spirit will be greatly missed
 SOLOWIEJCZYK - Anita. Cherished wife of Henry. Loving mother to Joseph, Jack, David and Alan. Devoted grandmother to Arielle, Joshua, Gabrielle, Joelle and Dylan. Loved mother-in-law of Mara and Ivy. A beautiful woman who was known for her smile and warmth. Always put other people's needs a
 GERST--Hilde W. A prominent art dealer and gallery owner in New York City, died on June 30, 2006, at the age of 98. Born in Central Europe and educated at French boarding schools, she traveled widely after World War II, which provided her the opportunity to collect works of art and antiques
 HUSTED--Thalia Barbara (Smith), 81, of Mantoloking, NJ, formerly of West Orange, NJ died on June 29, 2006 at her residence. Beloved wife of 40 years of Elbert E. Husted III. A memorial service will be held Thursday, July 6, 2006 at 11:00 a.m. at St. Simons by the Sea Episcopal Church, Manto
 STATHAKOS--Alkione. Died on June 30, 2006, in New York City. Beloved wife of James. Loving sister of Anthony Giovan. She was adored as Aunt Alkione, with many nieces and nephews who are living all around the world. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, Madison Ave at 81s
 FEELEY--Susan (nee Dooley) on July 2, 2006. Born in Roosbey, Strokestown, Roscommon, Ireland on October 6, 1907. Beloved wife of the late Joseph (Ret NYCTA). Beloved mother of the late Brendan (Ret Det. NYPD) and the late Katherine ''Alice''. Survived by son Robert (Ret NYPD) and daughter-i
 GERST--Hilde W. A prominent art dealer and gallery owner in New York City, died on June 30, 2006, at the age of 98. Born in Central Europe and educated at French boarding schools, she traveled widely after World War II, which provided her the opportunity to collect works of art and antiques
 STATHAKOS--Alkione. Died on June 30, 2006, in New York City. Beloved wife of James. Loving sister of Anthony Giovan. She was adored as Aunt Alkione, with many nieces and nephews who are living all around the world. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, Madison Ave at 81s
 The mezzo-soprano Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who won near universal praise from critics and audiences for her courageous, insightful and deeply affecting artistry, died on Monday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 52. Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice presiden
 FEELEY--Susan (nee Dooley) on July 2, 2006. Born in Roosbey, Strokestown, Roscommon, Ireland on October 6, 1907. Beloved wife of the late Joseph (Ret NYCTA). Beloved mother of the late Brendan (Ret Det. NYPD) and the late Katherine ''Alice''. Survived by son Robert (Ret NYPD) and daughter-i
 LOBIANCO--Anna. True partner of Bolivar Chiq Avila. Mother of Ruby and Dario. Sister of Yummy and Nina. Daughter of Dora and Tony. Ferocious mother, ferocious friend, compelling and powerful teacher and leader. Bravest of the brave young women. Her bright star shines on us all. Family and f
 SCHACK--Elizabeth T., 85. On July 4, 2006. She was a past president of the New York City League of Women Voters, an expert on court reform, a 1988 winner of the Bar Association's Howard A. Levine Award for Excellence in Juvenile Justice and Child Welfare, and a member of the Mayor's Committ
 WIENER--Gay. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the tragic passing of our devoted member, benefactor and adored wife of Synagogue President Mark Wiener. Fair of face, her warmth and grace were reflected in her bright smile. Our hearts go out to Mark, children Jill (Isaac) Khafif, Marna (Michael)
 ETTINGER--Esther. On July 4, 2006. Beloved wife of Joel. Devoted mother of Terry and Phil Panarese, Linda and Ken Frost. Adored grandmother of Valerie and Paul Panarese, Nicole and Grant Frost. Dear sister of Mary Storch. Funeral service Friday, 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and
 FOSTER--Zelda P., 71. Died at home on July 4, 2006. She is survived by her husband, Harold, children Rachel Foster Kodsi (Alain) and Joshua Foster, grandchildren Daniel, Elisa, Matthew, and sister Jeanette Katz (Hy). Zelda was a pioneer in the establishment of the hospice movement in the US
 MEANS - Rosaline, retired professor at CUNY in Brooklyn and widow of the late Cyril C. Means, Jr., passed away on July 3, 2006. She is survived by her three children, Elizabeth Rose Means, Annette Thayer Means and Cyril C. Means III. She loved music; a pianist and a singer, she was a longti
 SCHACK--Elizabeth T., 85. On July 4, 2006. She was a past president of the New York City League of Women Voters, an expert on court reform, a 1988 winner of the Bar Association's Howard A. Levine Award for Excellence in Juvenile Justice and Child Welfare, and a member of the Mayor's Committ
 ZIMET--Esther, dear beloved mother of Sheldon, Lloyd and Michelle and grandmother of Zoe and Dexter, died July 4th, 2006. She lived a life of style and grace and will be missed. Wien & Wien 800-322-0533       
 BODENHEIMER--Julia. We mourn the passing of our cherished, devoted and longtime friend, Mrs. Julia Bodenheimer. For more than half a century she and her late husband, Dr. William Bodenheimer, maintained a close and special relationship with Shaare Zedek. A profoundly affectionate and consid
 LIEBERSON - HUNT--Lorraine. We acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of our revered colleague and treasured friend, Lorraine Hunt Lieberson. Lorraine was a beacon of inspiration to all of us, and always will be. Her eloquence showed us what music was for. We extend our deepest sympathie
 LIEBERSON--Lorraine Hunt. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of this extraordinary colleague and friend, whose humanity was as radiant as her unforgettable singing. She made her debut with our company in the title role of Xerxes in 1997, in performances that were immediately reco
 Dorothy Hayden Truscott, for many years the top-ranked woman in bridge and the winner of four world titles and more than two dozen national championships, died on Tuesday in New Russia, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was announced by her daughter Margaret Cooke. It followed a long battl
 ETTINGER--Esther. On July 4, 2006. Beloved wife of Joel. Devoted mother of Terry and Phil Panarese, Linda and Ken Frost. Adored grandmother of Valerie and Paul Panarese, Nicole and Grant Frost. Dear sister of Mary Storch. Funeral service Friday, 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and
 FOSTER--Zelda P., 71. Died at home on July 4, 2006. She is survived by her husband, Harold, children Rachel Foster Kodsi (Alain) and Joshua Foster, grandchildren Daniel, Elisa, Matthew, and sister Jeanette Katz (Hy). Zelda was a pioneer in the establishment of the hospice movement in the US
 HASSEL--Dorothy M., 86, of Shelter Island, NY, July 3, 2006. She was the beloved wife of the late Michael Hassel, cherished mother and friend of Jennifer Green and geliebte Tante of Barbara and Gert von Hassel. She was a caring presence in the lives of many. A memorial service will be held 
 ZIZZAMIA--Alba I. On June 30, 2006. Born in Hartford, CT in 1910 and was a graduate of Trinity College in Washington, DC. She held a Doctorate in literature from the University of Rome. She translated several Italian works on Catholic social thought as well as the widely admired ''Life of C
 LIEBERSON--Lorraine Hunt. G.Schirmer/AMP mourns the death of Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, sublime musician and composers' muse. Hers was an unforgettable voice, which she shared generously and genuinely. Our hearts go out to her husband and soulmate, Peter, and to her family.       
 BERNSTEIN--Mary. To my mother on her 94th birthday. Always in my mind, my heart, my dreams. Barbara       
 FOSTER--Zelda. A valued member of the Beth Israel Medical Center Institutional Review Board, Ms. Foster was well known for her work in the hospice movement and social work. She was the Chief of Social Work Services for the VA Medical Center in Brooklyn and held faculty positions at New York
 GOLODNER--Syril Kirson, 82. On July 5, 2006. Born and raised in Manhattan, resided in Park Slope, and was a resident of Boca Raton, FL since 2000. A homemaker, business manager and children's clothing buyer, Syril was an elegant, graceful and caring woman who was deeply loved by her family 
 GROGAN--Mary Jane, 84, of Brookhill Road, Sugarloaf, formerly of Eastchester, NY, passed away Friday morning. Born in Brooklyn, NY, July 17, 1921, she was the daughter of the late J. James and Jane Francis (Mellon) Shea. She was preceded in death, in addition to her parents and siblings, by
 GUTTAG--Marjorie. Of Delray Beach, FL, widow of Irwin Guttag, passed away Friday, July 7, 2006. Born Marjorie Vogel, she grew up in Long Beach, NY, and attended Syracuse University. She was an accomplished artist and had a longstanding interest in community service. She served as President 
 LIEBERSON--Lorraine Hunt. We feel great sadness at the loss of Lorraine Hunt Lieberson from our musical firmament. Her unmatched artistry expanded our hearts and taught our spirits to soar. Her contribution to our musical life was truly timeless and will be with us always. We extend our dee
 CONWAY--Margaret A. ''Peggy'' On July 6th, 2006. Long time realtor on the west side of NYC. Dear sister of Edward & Kevin. Loving aunt of six. Peggy was much loved and will be missed by her many friends. Reposing at John J. Barrett & Son Funeral Home. 424 West 51st Street, NYC 2-5 and 7-9 p
 GOLODNER--Syril Kirson, 82. On July 5, 2006. Born and raised in Manhattan, resided in Park Slope, and was a resident of Boca Raton, FL since 2000. A homemaker, business manager and children's clothing buyer, Syril was an elegant, graceful and caring woman who was deeply loved by her family 
 GUTTAG--Marjorie. Of Delray Beach, FL, widow of Irwin Guttag, passed away Friday, July 7, 2006. Born Marjorie Vogel, she grew up in Long Beach, NY, and attended Syracuse University. She was an accomplished artist and had a longstanding interest in community service. She served as President 
 HASSEL--Dorothy M., 86, of Shelter Island, NY, July 3, 2006. She was the beloved wife of the late Michael Hassel, cherished mother and friend of Jennifer Green and geliebte Tante of Barbara and Gert von Hassel. She was a caring presence in the lives of many. A memorial service will be held 
 LANDES--Evelyn. At home in New Rochelle, July 2nd, 2006. Loving mother and inspiration to Alan, Vikki, Llyana, wife to Edward. She surrounded herself with beauty, books, a wonderful circle of friends/family who will miss her terribly and treasure her memory.       
 MAGEE--Kathrine Sarles Durstine Griswold. March 2, 1921--June 23, 2006. Born in White Plains, NY to Roy S. and Harriet Hutchins Durstine. In 1942 she married James Robert Griswold of Lookout Mountain, TN, a Naval officer killed in WWII. In 1946 she married Edward Jennings Magee of Pittsburg
 TULLY -- Kathryn (Kay). Passed away peacefully at home surrounded by her family on July 8th. She is survived by her loving husband, William J. Tully, her nine cherished children, her 17 adoring grandchildren and her new great-grandchild. Reposing at Pelham Funeral Home, Monday, July 10, 2-4
 LIEBERSON--Lorraine Hunt. We mourn the passing of a great artist and cherish the memory of her performances at Carnegie Hall and on every stage she graced. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Peter Lieberson and to the members of the Hunt family. Clive Gillinson Executive & Artistic Dire
 MATUTINOVIC--Zeljka (Suncica) Died Sunday July 2nd, on Martha's Vineyard. She was 41. While vacationing in Martha's Vineyard, she was in a traffic accident, and was reported dead at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital, shortly after. She is survived by her parents, Zeljko and Katarina Matutinovi
 ROSENBLATT--Hortense, (nee Weinstock), died on May 31, 2006 in San Francisco at the age of 85. Predeceased by husband William, she is survived by her daughters Nan and Jane, son-in-law Jeffrey, brother Louis, and grandchildren Zachary and Lauren. Her fun loving spirit will be greatly missed
 June Allyson, whose perky wholesomeness made her the perfect girlfriend in a series of MGM musicals during the 1940's and the perfect screen wife during the 1950's, died on Saturday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She was 88. Her death was announced yesterday by her daughter, Pamela All
 BRECHER--Roslyn Lois Kaplan. Died Sunday, July 9. Celebrated her 90th birthday June 1 surrounded by loved ones. Feminist, Democrat, Zionist, accomplished ''professional'' volunteer. Hadassah National Board life member. She and Walter, cherished husband of 66 years, who survives, enjoyed int
 DECRE--Rita M. Of Lantana, FL, passed away peacefully on July 7, 2006. She was predeceased by her husband of sixty-two years, Fred and a son Richard. Fred was coowner of La Caravelle, La Cremaillere and Le Poulailler Restaurants in the New York metropolitan area. Mrs. Decre was an avid brid
 HOMAN--Valerie Ross. The Psychoanalytic Association of the Westchester Center mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Valerie Ross Homan. Valerie was a life long learner and ready volunteer. She and her husband, William Homan, M.D., who died with her, founded the White Plains Bariatric
 NATHANS--Barbara Lange. Died on June 19, 2006 at her home in Coronado, California. She was 74 years old and died of Melanoma. A weaver and bead artist, she was the wife of Robert Nathans, sister of Judy Lange Topkis, and mother of Mark, Leah, Jessie, Sam, and Amy. She was also the grandmoth
 SHAW--Rose K. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Rose K. Shaw, mother of Susan Zimmerman, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President Morlie Levin, Nat'l Exec. Dir.       
 DAVIDOFF--Charlotte. On July 10, with great sadness and love, the family of Charlotte Davidoff mourns her passing. Her husband Ed, daughters Andy and Carol Fassler and her beloved family and friends will love, cherish and miss her forever. Graveside services, Wednesday, 1PM at Beth-El Cemet
 MATUTINOVIC--Zeljka (Suncica). Died Sunday July 2nd, on Martha's Vineyard. She was 41. While vacationing in Martha's Vineyard, she was in a traffic accident, and was reported dead at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital shortly after. She is survived by her parents, Zeljko and Katarina Matutinovi
 Dorothy Uhnak, once famous as a 125-pound New York City Transit Authority policewoman who knocked down and arrested an armed mugger and then better known as the author of gritty, suspenseful, best-selling crime novels, died on Saturday in Greenport, N.Y. She was 76 and lived in Shelter Isla
 BRECHER--Roslyn K. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Roslyn K. Brecher. Wise counsel to all and mentor to many, she has been a member of the National Board since 1957. As such, there is not a major decision or project she has not influenced with her intellect, passion for Zionism and co
 DAY--Mary. Founder of the Washington School of Ballet and the Washington Ballet Company. On July 11, 2006. She is survived by her long time associate and former General Director of the Washington Ballet, Elvi Moore and a legion of friends in the dance world. A memorial Service will be held 
 LIPKIND--Anne Paul. Our family will be forever blessed by the memory of our Annie. She was gorgeous and a savy businesswoman, most importantly, she was an extraordinary mother, grandmother and friend. Funeral services private. Family receiving at home on Wednesday July 12th, 6 to 9 P.M. Wen
 ROGOFF--Mifa August 15, 1915 -July 9, 2006. Family and friends mourn the passing of Sulamith (Mifa) Rogoff, legendary hostess, fluent speaker of five languages, superb cook, world traveler, and champion AIDS walker. She is survived by her two daughters, Ilana and Tamar, her four grandchildr
 SPRINGER--Betty B. , 70, died peacefully in her home on July 8th. Retired Executive Director of Day Care Council, New York.       
 YAZBEK--Bernice. Beloved wife of George, mother of David and Julianne, sister of Helen, grandmother of Omar. A memorial service will be held at All Souls, 1157 Lexington Avenue, Thursday, July 13th at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be sent to: Terence Cardinal Cooke 
 Mary Day, one of American ballet's most distinguished teachers and the longtime artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 96. The cause was heart failure, said Judith Keyserling, the Washington Ballet spokeswoman. Unlike m
 BERNFELD--Sylvia on July 11, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Registered nurse for 60 years. Dear aunt, neighbor and colleague. She will be missed. Service Thursday, July 13 at 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FLESCHNER--Janice(nee Hubshman) died on June 24, 2006 at JFK Hospital in Lake Worth, FL. She was 85. Mrs. Fleschner grew up in New York and Milford, CT. She graduated from the Ethical Fieldston School. She also studied at The Arts Students League of New York and attended Temple University's
 GAIR--Harriet E. 100, died at home on July 11, 2006. Harriet E. Gair had been an important figure in New York's legal structure for six decades. Her road to success was paved by performance and character. Harriet's trek to her leadership in the legal profession began at the age of fifteen, 
 GUTTAG--Marjorie. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Communal Fund mourn with sorrow the passing of Marjorie Guttag, Trustee Emeritus of the Jewish Communal Fund. Marjorie, together with her busband Irwin, served as examples of communal responsbility. Marjorie's dedication to mak
 HEISLER--Toni. The Board and Staff of United Hospital Fund mourn the loss of a dear friend and long-time employee. For more than 25 years, Toni was the ''go to'' person for important information on health and health care in New York City. She was also a beloved member of the Fund family who
 HEMINWAY--Nan. The Litchfield Historical Society mourns the loss of friend and board member Nan Heminway. Nan was a leader in the preservation of historic Litchfield. Her guidance will be missed.       
 ROGOFF--MifaAugust 15, 1915 -July 9, 2006. Family and friends mourn the passing of Sulamith (Mifa) Rogoff, legendary hostess, fluent speaker of five languages, superb cook, world traveler, and champion AIDS walker. She is survived by her two daughters, Ilana and Tamar, her four grandchildre
 SEELIG--Alma (nee Amerikaner). Beloved wife of the late Julius, honored mother of Evelyn Feiner and Kent and Susan Seelig, cherished Oma of Rod, Laura, Jeffrey & Jennifer Feiner, Joshua, Lee and Laine Seelig, revered great grandmother of Abigail, Grace, Jason and Noah Feiner. We will miss h
 SEGAL--Rose nee Bernstein. Died peacefully in her sleep at 97. Beloved wife of Joseph Segal for 50 years. Devoted mother to Paula Mitrani Lustbader, loving grandmother and great grandmother. She was a beautiful, refined lady and faithful friend.       
 SKULSKY--Rosalee, of Jackson, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, died July 11th. A former New York City teacher, she is survived by her husband, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.       
 YAZBEK--Bernice. Beloved wife of George, mother of David and Julianne, sister of Helen, grandmother of Omar. A memorial service will be held at All Souls, 1157 Lexington Avenue, Thursday, July 13th at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be sent to: Terence Cardinal Cooke 
 ROLLER--Mildred. To my mother on her 81st birthday; always on my mind and in my heart. Love, Cheryl       
 Zelda Foster, a social worker and early leader of the hospice movement who wrote a seminal article in 1965 attacking what she called the ''conspiracy of silence'' facing dying patients in hospitals, died on July 4 at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. She was 71. The cause was cancer
 COHN -- Charlotte V. 93, passed away peacefully on July 12. Wife of the late Bernard G. Cohn, mother of John, Jim and the late Judy Feller, mother-in-law of Eve, Diana, Joan and Allan, grandmother of Abby, Jessica (Josh), Robyn, Lisa (Sean) and Adam, great-grandmother of Ryan. An independen
 COOPER--Mildred. The whole York College and the City University of New York extended Family as well offer condolences to the Cooper Family on the passing, dear wife, mother, mother-inlaw, grandmother, soror and friend. Mildred Cooper's leadership, as President of the York College Commemorat
 BOBB--Sophie. After 95 exceptional years, Sophie exited life as she had lived it, independently and fiercely determined to steer her own course. A graduate of Hunter College and Columbia Graduate School, she joined the Waves at the start of WWII. Her mother's death brought her back from Haw
 BUONASERA--Sherry Jean (nee Kempinski). Age 59, of Manhattan and Watermill. On Tuesday, July 11, 2006. Sherry lost her courageous battle against Leukemia. Sherry was the beloved and treasured wife of John. The adored mother of Ashley(Nicoletta) and Bradford(Manon). The devoted grandmother o
 BUONASERA--Sherry Jean (nee Kempinski). Age 59, of Manhattan and Watermill. On Tuesday, July 11, 2006. Sherry lost her courageous battle against Leukemia. Sherry was the beloved and treasured wife of John. The adored mother of Ashley(Nicoletta) and Bradford(Manon). The devoted grandmother o
 DERN--Adele. 87, of New York City on July 13. Predeceased by her cherished sister Ruth. Survived by numerous cousins including Florence Reed, Dietger Malnz, Florence Miraglia, Karen Miraglia, June Fait, Shirley Kelly and Walter Rudolph. Dear friend to Dorothy Silverstein. Good neighbor. Lov
 GOTTLIEB--Gilbert H., Professor was born October 22, 1929 in Brooklyn, NY, and died July 13, 2006 at home in Raleigh, NC. For complete obituary, survivors and memorial service info go to www.brownwynne.com. Link to a recent interview, http:// icube.uconn.edu/GG/ GG.html. $(6$)GOTTLI
 GROSZ--Karin, 52, died of lung cancer June 23 in Milford, DE surrounded by close friends. Daughter of Peter and Lilian Grosz, Princeton, NJ. Predeceased by only sibling Michael. Granddaughter of late German Expressionist George Grosz from whom she inherited gift of drawing, scientific illus
 HAZEN--Emily French. Of West Orange, NJ, Osterville, MA, and Vero Beach, FL, completed her wonderful life on July 5, 2006. She was predeceased by her husband, Burchard M. Hazen. Her children Barbara H. Glidden, of Dover, MA and Burchard M. Hazen, Jr. of Ormond Beach, FL and grandchildren Sa
 LEAVY--Fay L. March 17, 1916--July 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Morton L. Leavy and mother of Annette and Jane. Devoted grandmother of David, Nick and Emma. Teacher and community leader. Her life will be celebrated at a memorial service, July 29, 2Pm at the Roslyn Bryant Library, Pape
 LEIBOWITZ - Simone. Be loved mother, wife, stepmother, mother - in - law, friend, died peacefully on July 13, 2006, at age 80. A woman of exceptional character, Simone illuminated lives from Egypt to Switzerland to New York City. Her career as a doctor gave way to her ultimate wishes for ma
 LEMONT -- Margaret S. (Scott). Died in NYC on July 10, 2006, at 74. The cause was metastatic renal cancer. Mrs. Lemont grew up in Newburgh, NY, and attended the Walnut Hill School in Natick, MA. She majored in political science at Smith College and obtained a master's degree in art history 
 LEWIS--Lois Michal. The Board of Directors and members of the International Fine Print Dealers Association sadly note the passing of our esteemed colleague on March 14, 2006. A member since 1991 and co-founder of R.E. Lewis, Inc., she worked for many years alongside her late husband Ray unt
 McMULLEN--Mary Patricia, died Thursday, July 13, from cancer. Born March 19, 1930 in New York City to Thomas and Marion Hughes, she is survived by her sister Bernardine Whitmore of Los Angeles, two nieces, and also by her former husband Donald McMullen. Services will be held Monday 10:30 AM
 NEUMAN--Hannah M. Born December 31, 1906. Joined her beloved Morty on July 14, 2006, at 4 PM. Survived by her son, Dr. Carl H. Neuman and wife Loretta, who were with her at the end; her grandchildren, Lydia and Jonathan; her sister and brother-in-law Grace and Louis Goldberg. A strong Hadas
 NUTKIS--Pearl. It is with much sadness and heavy hearts that we mourn the passing of our treasured friend. Her dedication, kindness and valiant spirit will never be forgotten. Our hearts go out to her wonderful children and grandchildren. Myron & Barbara Nelkin Charles, Cathy & Robert Mille
 RINDNER--Sandra. Of New York, NY died July 3, 2006, after a brave battle with cancer. Sandy was an extraordinary woman who dedicated much of her life to the well-being of animals. As a Rescuer of small breed dogs, she was devoted to the welfare and placement of abandoned pets, working tirel
 FIERSTEIN--Francine. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing in Jerusalem of our cherished benefactor. To her beloved husband, Jesse, and to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. Her memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration to our congregational family. Rabbi Marc Sch
 NYE--Elizabeth GriffisHeathea, as she was known to her many friends, passed away on July 14, 2006, after a long and valiant battle with cancer. She is survived by her brother Hughes Griffis and her adoring children Kate and Julia. Please address correspondence to the family at: Suite 1650 M
 WEISENFELD--Karole W., 64, passed away June 30th, 2006, after a courageous fight with ovarian cancer. She graduated Mills College, BA and Columbia University, MA. She taught in NYC elementary schools; she enjoyed tennis, entertaining her friends and making beautiful collages, but her first 
 Carrie Nye, a stage, film and television actress and a fixture at the Williamstown Theater Festival, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, the television host Dick Cavett. Ms. Nye, known for her dry wit and Mississippi
 LEON--Gertrude. Beloved wife for sixty-five years of Louis Leon, passed away suddenly July 14th in San Clemente, CA, at the age of 86. Describing herself as a ''Brooklyn girl,'' she was born and raised in East New York and spent almost 85 years in Brooklyn. She worked as a secretary at Broo
 LEWINSON - Alice. We mourn the loss of my beloved mother, Alice (nee Rossheimer), December 31, 1909June 27, 2006. Born Bamberg, Germany. Married Edward Lewinsohn (deceased) in 1934; lived in Weissenfels, near Leipzig, until 1939. Fled Germany after Crystal Night for America in 1940; lost he
 NEUMAN--Hannah M. Born December 31, 1906. Joined her beloved Morty on July 14, 2006, at 4 PM. Survived by her son, Dr. Carl H. Neuman and wife Loretta, who were with her at the end; her grandchildren, Lydia and Jonathan; her sister and brother-in-law Grace and Louis Goldberg. A strong Hadas
 YAMPOL--Joanne Maxine (nee Nemeth). Passed away peacefully, surrounded by family members, at Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, July 12, 2006. Joanne will be missed forever by her husband Barry, sons, John and David, her grandchildren, Joseph, Anthony, Eric, Brian and Jessica, daughter-in-law Gise
 FEUERSTEIN--Lucille of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Brightwaters NY, died peacefully on July 16 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Survived by her son Richard and his wife Shawn, daughter Nancy Milsten and her husband Richard, daughter Barbara Morgan and her husband David,
 GREENE--Marian Schomer. 83, passed away after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Stanley for 62 years. Loving mother of Peter, Benjamin and Andrew. Devoted sister of Jesse and Morton. Admired for her career in social work in service to the aged. Director of Nassau County Office of Senior Citi
 KLEINMAN--Mildred. On July 17, 2006. Devoted and much beloved mother of Robert and Richard, grandmother of Jaime, David, Jared and Evan, great grandmother of Cara. Her class and demeanor will forever serve as a model for her family. Services Wednesday, 12 Noon at Riverside-Nassau North Chap
 LEON--Gertrude. Beloved wife for sixty-five years of Louis Leon, passed away suddenly July 14th in San Clemente, CA, at the age of 86. Describing herself as a ''Brooklyn girl,'' she was born and raised in East New York and spent almost 85 years in Brooklyn. She worked as a secretary at Broo
 LUTZKY--Florence. Passed away peacefully in her 95th year. Beloved sister of Stanley Mitchell and cousin and friend of Anne Tanzman. She will be remembered for her strong will and determination, for having worked as a bookkeeper in the family business for 50 years, and for her devotion and 
 PAPERT--Diane Keedwell. Beloved wife, devoted mother and grandmother, died in her New York City home on July 13th. The cause of her death was a metastatic carcinoid. She was 83. She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Fred Papert, two daughters, Emily Lloyd Papert of San Francisco and L
 REILLY--Jessie (nee Rothouse) at the age of 100 on July 16, 2006. Loving wife of the late Harry. Survived by her longtime cherished friend, Joan O'Connor ''the daughter she never had.'' She is also survived by a niece, Paulene Goldberg, nephews Herb Orlan, Ted Ronick and Mel Ronick; 13 grea
 SEDLEY--Dina T. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dina T. Sedley, who along with her late husband, Nathan, was a lifetime supporter of humanitarian and Jewish causes. This enduring legacy continues through the leadership of their 
 YAMPOL--Joanne Maxine (nee Nemeth). Passed away peacefully, surrounded by family members, at Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, July 12, 2006. Joanne will be missed forever by her husband Barry, sons, John and David, her grandchildren, Joseph, Anthony, Eric, Brian and Jessica, daughter-in-law Gise
 NYE--Elizabeth Griffis Hethea, as she was known to her many friends, passed away on July 14, 2006, after a long and valiant battle with cancer. She is survived by her brother Hughes Griffis and her adoring children Kate and Julia. Please address correspondence to the family at: 477 Madison 
 KLEINMAN--Mildred. It is with profound sorrow the Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our esteemed member and Women's Board Past President. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her sons and daughters-in-law, Robert and Pamela, Richard and 
 LOCKHEIMER--Marie, nee Wieczoreck, 93, passed away on Saturday, July 8, 2006. Viewing will be from 2 to 4, and from 7 to 9, on July 19, at Leber-Volk Funeral Home in Teaneck. Funeral will be at 10 AM, Thursday, July 20 at St. Mark's Lutheran Church. She was preceded in death by her husband,
 LOZADA--Angelica. The officers, directors and members of The Bohemians (The New York Musicians Club) mourn the passing of our long-time Secretary and friend, Angelica. She was a renowned soprano soloist, a winner of the Walter M. Naumburg Award and an extremely beautiful lady. She will be s
 PAPERT--Diane. The Board and Staff of The New York Landmarks Conservancy mourn the passing of Diane Papert, wife of our Board member, Frederic S. Papert. Our deepest sympathies to Fred and his family. Frank J. Sciame, Jr., Chair Peg Breen, President $(6$)PAPERT--Diane Keedwell. Belo
 ROTH--Barbara. We, family and friends, who mourn her passing know that she worked very hard to make this road a little better, contributing in many ways to individuals as well as organizations. She worked tirelessly for the state of Israel and will be missed by many. A light has gone out.  
 PONCE DE LEON--Susan. New York City's affordable housing community mourns the passing of our colleague and friend, Susan Ponce de Leon, Assistant Commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. During her twenty years of dedicated service, she crafted preservation an
 Ruth Schonthal, an American composer and pianist of German birth whose eclectic music brought together elements as diverse as European Romanticism, Mexican folk song and Minimalism, died on July 10 at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 82. The cause was complications of a recent he
 Cora T. Walker, a prominent New York lawyer who nearly 60 years ago became one of the first black women to practice law in the state, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was cancer, said her son Lawrence R. Bailey Jr., a lawyer, who practiced with his 
 Martha E. Peterson, the president of Barnard College in the turbulent Vietnam War era who went on hold the same position at Beloit College, died last Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 90. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Ron Nief, a spokesman for Be
 GORDON--Rosanne. On July 18, 2006. Beloved wife of Jack. Devoted mother of Jessica and mother-in-law of Horatio Wildman. Cherished grandmother of Nathaniel. Dear sister of Marc Palatnik. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. $(6$)GORDON--
 HALL--Lyda Womelsdorf died peacefully at her home in Southampton, NY on July 13th, at the age of 94. A true ''Georgia Peach,'' she was a former fashion model, talented portrait painter, & a leading realtor in the Hamptons for almost 50 years. A daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lefevre Beck Womelsdo
 PAPERT--Diane Keedwell. We mourn the loss of Diane Papert, wife of Graduate Center Foundation Board member Fred Papert, and extend heartfelt condolences to her enfire family. William P. Kelly, President CUNY Graduate Center Amabel B. James, Chair, Board of Trustees, Graduate Center Foundati
 PETERSON--Martha. Bar nard College mourns the loss of its past president, Martha Peterson, who led the College from 1967 to 1975. Dr. Peterson died in Madison, Wisconsin on July 14. She will be remembered for her strong leadership at Barnard and her many contributions in a long and distingu
 SURECK--Nancy. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas $(6$)SURECK--Nancy. On July 18, 2006. Beloved wife of David, loving mother Shana, and Suzy. Adoring grandmother of Tali. Dear sister of Cary
 VOGEL--Mildred Levy Robins. February 7, 1907--July 19, 2006. A lady to the end. With Love from Her Family       
 CAPACCIO--Ella-Mae. A woman who loved her family, adored her friends, and lived her life to the fullest, EllaMae died on July 12, 2006. You will always be loved, missed and treasured. Your daughter, Cynthia       
 DEUTSCH--Jeffrey. All at Resources for Children with Special Needs extend our deepest sympathy to our Board member Jamie Klein and her family on the death of her brother, Jeffrey Deutsch.       
 SEIDMAN--Susan. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Susan Seidman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Benson and their family Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary  
 SCHOENFELD--Alice Forgosh on July 20th quietly in her sleep after a 100 year and 3 month life. Wife of the late Edward Schoenfeld. She will be remembered as the most loving mother, grandmother, and great grandmother; by her sons Norman and Lester, daughters-in-law Michele and linda, grandch
 SURECK--Nancy H. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the passing of our former Trustee (1987-1994)--a dedicated member of the alumnae/i community and a dear friend of the College. We extend our sympathies to her family. MicheleTolela Myers, President and the Board of Trustees       
 Dorothea Towles Church, the first successful black model in Paris, who discovered personal liberation on the runways of Christian Dior and Elsa Schiaparelli in the 1950's, died on July 7 in Manhattan. She was 83. Her death was confirmed by Michael Henry Adams, a curator at the Museu
 GLICKHOUSE--Hannah (Bergman). Joined her beloved Sam on July 18. Survived by her loving children, Lenore, David (Carin Rubenstein), and Andrea (Harvey Zachem); cherished grandchildren, Rachel, Jonathan, Jeffrey and Matthew.       
 HALL--Lyda Womelsdorf died peacefully at her home in Southampton, NY on July 13th, at the age of 94. A true ''Georgia Peach,'' she was a former fashion model, talented portrait painter, & a leading realtor in the Hamptons for almost 50 years. A daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lefevre Beck Womelsdo
 LYBOLT--Nancy Ann. 53, of Hoboken, NJ, died July 20 at Calvary Hospital after a long battle with breast cancer. She is survived by her husband Ziggy Dabrowsky, her dog LuLu, father Calvin, sisters Marie and Ann, and brother J.R. of Maine.       
 MAURI--Silvana. At 86 in Milan. Lifelong friend, mentor of writer Carolyn Gaiser. She gave me her Italy 'til it became my own. Addio, cara amica.       
 RIGER-Hilda Daughter of Harry and Jennie Riger, died peacefully in her sleep at the age of 87. Ms. Riger had a degree in nursing from Beth Israel and a Master in social work from Smith College. She worked for many years with the NYC Board of Education and volunteered for GMHC in its early y
 HERMAN -- Leona June. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MERKIN--Ursula. The Yeshiva University family laments the passing of an elegant, yet humble, extraordinary Jewish matriarch, the wife of the late Hermann Merkin, who was a Vice Chairman of the YU Board of Trustees and with her, a YU Benefactor. A woman of great compassion, kindness and warm
 PRAGER--Lotte. 87, mother of Lois Gilman and Susan McCarthy, and devoted Oma to her grandchildren Seth, Eve, Sean and Tim, passed peacefully on July 22.       
 BRESLAW - GRAYSON -Rose. 95, peacefully at home in Hollywood, FL. The last of seven ''Ludmerer'' children. A beautiful woman inside and out. Wife of the late Maurice Grayson and later widow of the late Dr. Harry Breslaw. Loving companion of deceased Murray Baum. Dearest mother of Helen Unge
 Reathel Odum, a bank clerk who was chosen by Senator Harry S. Truman during the Depression to be one of his secretaries and later served in the White House as personal secretary to Bess Truman, died in her hometown, Benton, Ill., on June 6. She was 97. Miss Odum's nephew, Richard Od
 BELL--HeleneBeloved wife of Bernard for 59 years. Devoted mother of Martin & Alison, Kenneth & Sherri. Dear sister of Barbara Wagner, Joan Wolin and the late Constance Bindelglass and Sheldon Spiro. Loving grandmother of Robyn, Daniel, Marisa, Frances and Olivia. She taught at Oceanside Hig
 BRANCH--Joan (nee Swan), 81 of Bedford, NY on July 22nd, 2006. Born in Shanghai, China to the late Joseph and Lena Mary Swan. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Callcote Branch. Mother of Suzanne Branch of New York City, Benjamin C. Branch Jr. of Bedford, NY, Charles Swan Branch of Hasting-o
 CASPE--Helen L. Chemistry teacher and early childhood teacher, Mrs. Caspe taught for over 50 years in the NYC school system. She was 99.       
 FISHER--Isobel (Miki), nee McBridedied July 24, 2006 in New York City. Cherished wife of the late Saul Fisher, beloved mother of Rachel Abram, mother-in-law of Michael Abram, grandmother of Daniel, Sarah and Dan's wife, Marina, aunt and greataunt to many dear nieces and nephews. Artist, poe
 LYBOLT--Nancy Ann. 53, of Hoboken, NJ, died July 20 atCalvary Hospital after a long battle with breast cancer. She is survived by her husband Ziggy Dabrowski, her dog LuLu, father Calvin, sisters Marie and Ann, and brother JR of Maine.       
 MERKIN--Ursula. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of Reuth mourn the passing of our organizational matriarch, our chair, and the soul of Reuth, Mrs. Ursula Merkin. Her dedication to Reuth came from a promise made to her mother, Mrs. Jenny Breuer, a founder of Women's Social Service (now R
 RABB--EleanorThe Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Eleanor Rabb and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 VEZINA--GayleIn lovingmemory, Gayle A. Vezina, 42, of New York, N.Y. on June 24, 2006. Ms. Vezina graduated from the Ethel Walker School of Simsbury, CT and from Syracuse University's Newhouse School of Public Communication in (85). She was an accomplished business woman, intrepid traveler,
 WALKER--Cora T. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department mark with sadness the passing of a great friend of the Court. As a valued member of the Character and Fitness Committee, she served the Court with distinction for many years. John T. Buckl
 MERKIN--Ursula, the faculty and staff of The Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute and The Brookdale Department of Geriatrics of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine express our appreciation and affection for our dear friend, patient, and supporter, Ursula Merkin. A brilliant thinker and writer
 BELL--Helene. Beloved wife of Bernard for 59 years. Devoted mother of Martin & Alison, Kenneth & Sherri. Dear sister of Barbara Wagner, Joan Wolin and the late Constance Bindelglass and Sheldon Spiro. Loving grandmother of Robyn, Daniel, Marisa, Frances and Olivia. She taught at Oceanside H
 YAZGI--Patricia G. on July 23, 2006. Beloved wife of Rogih. Loving sister of Annie Freeman, Jennifer Glaudel and Mary Jane Sexton. She was active in a wide variety of educational and environmental programs, directly and through her charitable organization, Friends of Fishes. Memorial servic
 GOODWIN--Jacqueline. TheSouthampton Fresh Air Home, a camp for physically challenged children, mourns the loss of Jacqueline Goodwin, a member of its Board of Directors and a former President. Mrs. Goodwin's loyalty, generosity and commitment to the Home brought joy to many, many children w
 MONSANTO - FENNICK-Claudya Marion, an accomplished massage therapist died at age 47 on July 23, 2006 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital of complications from Crohn's Disease and related liver failure. Marion, as she was known to family and friends, was born January 15, 1959 in Suriname to Na
 FISHER--Gloria. On July 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted sister of Joseph Cropsey. Much loved aunt and great-aunt. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, July 30, 12 noon, ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 NEIMAN--Rhoda A. (nee Greene). Of Rockaway, NJ, died on Wednesday, July 26, 2006. Survived by her children Roger, Andrew and Karen; companion Nathan Zukerberg and eight grandchildren.       
 RICHMAN--Vivian Hoffman. Of Lexington, MA, July 23, 2006. Wife of Peter Richman of Lexington. Mother of Meredith (Spence) Turcotte of Arlington and Jeremy of Waltham. Grandmother of Danica and Rylan Spence of Arlington. Sister of Daniel Hoffman of PA. Expressions of sympathy may be made at 
 WOELZL--Frances Scholl. Of Maplewood, NJ, passed away peacefully on Saturday, July 22, 2006. Wife of the late Hans Woelzl, she is survived by her daughter, Susan Woelzl and her devoted dog, Rufus. Funeral was held Wednesday July 26th. Donations to Popcorn Park Zoo, PO Box 43, Forked River, 
 GOODWIN--Jacqueline Haswell, of Southampton and North Palm Beach, on July 24. Beloved wife of Todd Goodwin. Dearest mother of Elizabeth Frankel, Amanda Ricciarini, and the late Ian Frankel. Loving stepmother of Alix Olavarria and Leslie Stonestreet, and proud grandmother of seven. Cherished
 Dika Newlin, who composed a symphony at 11, became a distinguished composer and musicologist and emerged, in her 70's and 80's, as a most unlikely punk rocker, died on July 22 in Richmond, Va. She was 82. The cause was complications of a broken arm she suffered on June 30, said Sabi
 BIRRITTELLA--Emily M., (nee Domchek) 94, of Plantation, Florida, initially of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, passed away peacefully at home on July 26, after a wonderful life. Loving mother of Roseann (Buffy) and James, motherin-law of Brenda, cherished grandmother of Jessica. Predeceased by her b
 FRIEDMAN--Lynn. Mother of Amy, aunt of Hillary, sister of Ellen and daughter of Jean and Manny. Lost her brave fight to cancer on the night of July 26th, 2006 at the too young age of 65. A celebration of her life will take place at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. at 91st St., 
 MAHONEY--Helen. On July 26, 2006 of Forest Hills, NY and Venice, FL. Beloved wife of the late Cornelius A., MD. Loving mother of Cornelius, Maureen, Daniel, John, Jane, Eileen & Ellen. Devoted to her grandchildren and greatgrandchild. Reposing Fox Funeral Home, Forest Hills, Saturday and Su
 MAY--Marcia. Kind, gentle, beautiful Marcia, I will miss you so much. Love , Jane Holzer $(6$)MAY--Marcia. It is with great sorrow we note the passing of our dear friend and neighbor Marcia May. Our condolences to our fellow board member Alan May, her daughter Alexandra and her gran
 SCANLAN--Anna M. Died on Wednesday, July 26 at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in Riverdale, NY. She was 92. In 1941, she married Thomas Scanlan who pre-deceased her in 1975. Anna is survived by her three children, Helen Auger of North Smithfield, RI, John Scanlan of Wayne, NJ, and Brothe
 Louise Simone Bennett-Coverly, a Jamaican poet and folklorist who became the voice of the island's culture at home and abroad, died on Wednesday in Toronto. She was 86. Her death was announced by the Jamaica Information Service, which did not give a cause. She was hospitalized in To
 BUXBAUM--Caroline, 80. We are saddened to announce the sudden passing of our dear family member, Caroline Buxbaum, of NYC. Devoted member of Old Oaks Country Club for over 50 years and former women's golf champion, she passed away early Friday morning, July 28th, 2006. She was the wife of t
 ERLANGER--Elisabeth. The Board of Directors, Members and Staff of The Rogosin Institute mourn the loss of Elisabeth Erlanger, Director of Public Relations at RI for over fifteen years. She was extremely talented, dedicated and caring during her years working at The Institute, as well as dur
 BERMAN--Ella J. On July 28. Wife of the late Gerrard, daughter of Dora and Cantor Moses Snyder. Survived by her children Dr. Lawrence & Rosalie Berman & Rina & Burton Lerner, grandchildren Michael & Karen Berman, Leonard Berman & Lori Zeltser, Mark & Tami Berman, Beth & Steven Wechsler, Jos
 BRONSON--Virginia C. ''Ginnie'' Bronson, 83, died Sunday, July 23, 2006. She was a registered nurse, working at Bellevue Hospital in New York City, as a supervisor for 40 years. Virginia was a member of the Audubon Society. Her family includes her brother, Charles Bronson; two nieces, Cynth
 BRONSTEIN - Gerry. The BMP Family Circle mourns the loss of our longtime member, Gerry Bronstein. Our sincere condolences to her family. Andrew Friedman, President BMP Family Circle       
 BUSHNELL--Scott. Passed away July 13, 2006, of heart failure. She was a producer and casting director for Robert Altman films for 20 years. She is survived by her sister, Jeri Scott.       
 BUXBAUM--Caroline, 80. We are saddened to announce the sudden passing of our dear family member, Caroline Buxbaum, of NYC. Devoted member of Old Oaks Country Club for over 50 years and former women's golf champion, she passed away early Friday morning, July 28th, 2006. She was the wife of t
 EVERS--Bernice (Tia Bere) passed away on July 12, 2006. Her special ''sense of being'' remains in the heart of her family, which included her sisters Elisa and Henny, her nieces Clarita, Monica and children. In addition, the family members in Europe and Colombia and all the numerous friends
 FIELD--Lucille Leitzer. 92, died on July 28, 2006, at the Osborne Pavilion in Rye, New York. Beloved wife of Allen for 70 years, mother of Lois Gotthilf and Bob Field, grandmother of four and greatgrandmother of four. Lucille lived in Larchmont, NY, for 52 years before moving to the Osborne
 FRIEDMAN--Lynn. Mother of Amy, aunt of Hillary, sister of Ellen and daughter of Jean and Manny. Lost her brave fight to cancer on the night of July 26th, 2006 at the too young age of 65. Donations to Dr. Mark G. Kris, Thoracic Oncology Research Fund at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Cent
 GOETZL--Giuliana Ravenna. Giuliana was born in Padua, Italy to Arrigo and Itala Fano Ravenna. Her husband, Manlio, daughter, Renata and she immigrated to the United States in 1939. Mrs. Goetzl was a firm proponent of education and human rights. She was pre-deceased by her husband, Manlio; d
 KRIVITSKY--Maria (nee Martins) of New York City and Water Mill, NY. On July 28, 2006. Beloved wife of David. Maria was born June 11, 1933 in Bristol, RI. After graduating St. Mary's Seminary as class valedictorian, she graduated Albertus Magnus College in 1954. To hone her administrative an
 MAY--Marcia. It is with great sorrow we note the passing of our dear friend and neighbor Marcia May. Our condolences to our fellow board member Alan May, her daughter Alexandra and her grandchildren Tucker and Piper. The Board of Directors and everyone at The Volney Residences, Inc.        
 MERKIN--Ursula, the faculty and staff of The Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute and The Brookdale Department of Geriatrics of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine express our appreciation and affection for our dear friend, patient, and supporter, Ursula Merkin. A brilliant thinker and writer
 MOSKOWITZ--Lillian. Be loved wife of the late Albert Moskowitz, loving mother of Harvey and Lynne, Gary and Susan, Robert and Diana, Linda and the late Richard Moskowitz. Adoring and adored grandmother of nine-Jeff, Amy, Scott, Steven, Brad, Todd, Adam, Shara and Brett. Proud and loving gre
 SPIELMAN - Marilyn. April 23, 2006. Devoted wife of Alan, beloved mother of Paul and Sherry. She positively influenced thousands of young lives as counselor at West Hempstead High School. Private memorial July 29.       
 VEZINA--Gayle. In lovingmemory, Gayle A. Vezina, 42, of New York, N.Y. on June 24, 2006. Ms. Vezina graduated from the Ethel Walker School of Simsbury, CT and from Syracuse University's Newhouse School of Public Communication in (85). She was an accomplished business woman, intrepid travele
 BURNS - SILVER - Nancy. Passed on at her east side apartment on Friday, July 28, 2006. She is lovingly remembered by her husband Bill, daughter, son-in-law and grandson Whitney, Keith and Jared Uklist, sister Janie Waldman, niece Bianca, mother Irma Barouch and stepchildren and stepgrandchi
 GOODWIN--Jacqueline. TheSouthampton Fresh Air Home, a camp for physically challenged children, mourns the loss of Jacqueline Goodwin, a member of its Board of Directors and a former President. Mrs. Goodwin's loyalty, generosity and commitment to the Home brought joy to many, many children w
 HENDERSON--Barbara P. Barbara Pressprich Henderson, 62, of Essex, CT died Sunday, July 23 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. The cause was cancer. She was born in New York City, attended the Chapin School there, graduated from Miss Porter's School, attended Connecticut College and graduated from t
 TRAVELSTEAD--Edythe M. On June 11th, 2006, the world lost a brilliant, accomplished, courageous, dynamic person with a zest for life and a commitment to her community. Edythe M. Travelstead, a woman of valor, lost her valiant sight with breast cancer in her 64th year. Edythe was a survivor 
 CARLIN--Roslyn. On Saturday, July 29, 2006, formerly of West Palm Beach, FL, and Valley Stream, NY. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Carlin. Loving mother of Steven H. (Jane) Carlin and the late Robert A. Carlin, and motherin-law of Barbara Carlin. Dear grandmother of Jessica, Claire and Sam
 DOFT--Sylvia Sverdlik. Beloved mother of Ellen (Alex), Peter (Jane), Frank (Libby), and Amie (Veronica). Grandmother of Rebecca, David, Lauren, Daniel and Sean. Daughter of Simon and Fannie Sverdlik. Sister of Dr. Samuel Sverdlik (Norma) and the late Jerome Sverdlik (Aubrey). She was a gent
 KRIVITSKY--Maria (nee Martins) of New York City and Water Mill, NY. On July 28, 2006. Beloved wife of David. Maria was born June 11, 1933 in Bristol, RI. After graduating St. Mary's Seminary as class valedictorian, she graduated Albertus Magnus College in 1954. To hone her administrative an
 WALLACE--Marilyn S. Author, teacher and mentor, loving wife, adoring mother and true friend, Marilyn slipped away painlessly Saturday morning, July 29th, after battling cancer with her typical grace and strength. She is survived by her husband Bruce, her two sons Mark and Jeremy, her sister
