 Jeannette E. Fleischner, a professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College who devoted her career to the advancement of children with disabilities, died last Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 57 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y., and on Manhattan's Upper W
 Jeanne Calment, born a year before Alexander Graham Bell patented his telephone and 14 years before Alexandre Gustave Eiffel built his tower, died today in a nursing home in Arles. At 122, she was the oldest person whose age had been verified by official documents. Jean-Marie Robine
 Ruth Adler, who kept the staff of The New York Times informed about its own milestones and behind-the-scenes adventures and shaped the legends and lore of The Times for other journalists and students for 33 years as editor of the newspaper's in-house journal Times Talk, died on Friday at he
 Joanne Tree Winship, a former actress who played an active role in many New York City charity benefits, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, her husband, Frederick Winship, said. Mrs. Winship served 
 Dr. Bettina Garthwaite Lowerre, a retired lung specialist, died last Thursday at her home in Manchester Village, Vt. She was 82. Mrs. Lowerre, known professionally as Dr. Garthwaite, was born in Spring Mill, Pa. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College in 1937. After a year 
 Margaret Sherman Peet, a former advertising executive, died Aug. 6 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., after a fall, her son, Charles D. Peet Jr., said. She was 90 and a longtime resident of Bronxville. Born in Detroit, Mrs. Peet, who was known professionally as Margot Sherman
 Anna Balakian, former chairman of the department of comparative literature at New York University and an internationally recognized scholar in the fields of Symbolism and Surrealism, died on Tuesday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. She was 82 and lived in Old Westbury, N.Y. T
 Frances Lopata, a philanthropist known for her gifts to benefit medical research, died on Aug. 9 at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74 and had lived in New Rochelle for three decades. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son Roy. A native of New York, she marr
 Helen Merrill, a strong-willed and influential theatrical agent who advanced the careers of many of the most imaginative playwrights, directors and designers in the American theater, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung canc
 Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years. She was 7
 Hallie Crawford Stillwell, who drove a covered wagon into Alpine, Tex., in 1910, worked as a teacher and then settled down and became a Big Bend legend as a sharp-shooting ranch wife on horseback, died on Monday at an Alpine hospital, two months and two days shy of her 100th birthday.      
 Harriett R. Taylor, a senior judge of the District of Columbia Superior Court whose actions helped to ease conditions for Washington's poor and homeless, died on Monday at her home in Washington. She was 65. The cause was cancer, her family said. Judge Taylor, in a special w
 Kay Halle, a glamorous Cleveland department store heiress who cut a heady swath through the 20th century firmament, befriending and bewitching luminaries on both sides of the Atlantic and serving as a perceptive gadfly in politics, society and the arts, died on Aug. 7 at her home in Washing
 Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines. She was 82 and a longtime resident of Des Moines. The cause w
 Janet Good, a longtime civil rights worker who cooperated with Dr. Jack Kevorkian to help terminally ill people die, ended her own life yesterday in her home in suburban Detroit. She was 73. Mrs. Good had suffered from pancreatic cancer and said she hoped not to die as her mother ha
 Maria Rosa Henson, the first of a growing number of Philippine women to break a long silence and announce that she had been systematically raped by Japanese soldiers during World War II, has died at age 69. Her family said she died of a heart attack last week in the small home she h
 Sara Scranton Linen, a member of one of Pennsylvania's best-known families who was a trustee of Smith College, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 84. Mrs. Linen, known as Sally, was a descendant of the family that founded Scranton, Pa., where she was born on Marc
 Loretta Blum, a fashion retailer in Dallas for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. She was 64 and lived in Dallas. The cause was a stroke, said Bud Knight, a friend and former colleague. At the time of her death, Ms. Blum was o
 Cathleen Cordell, an actress who appeared on Broadway, in Britain and in films and television, died on Aug. 19 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 81. Miss Cordell was born in Brooklyn and educated in England and France. She trained at the Royal Academy of Dramati
 Joyce Ebert, a versatile character actress for more than 30 years with the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, died on Thursday at Southport Manor, a rest home in Southport, Conn. She was 64. The cause was cancer, said Kimberly Sewright, a spokeswoman for Long Wharf. Ms. Ebert 
 The death at 36 of Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car crash in Paris brought to a tragic close the life of a woman who had gone from being a shy young society girl to one of the world's most glamorous women. Her marriage to Prince Charles, heir to the British throne and 12 years her
