 GLICKSTERN--Pearl (nee Marmarosh) 92, on March 29,2007. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Susan and Edwin Phillips. Devoted sister of the late Ralph, Rita and Sylvia. Caring aunt. She was a kind, compassionate soul. An artist, friend and thinker. Services today, 12 noon at S
 KAREKEN--Lynne Marcus, March 30, 2007, at age 70. Predeceased by her brother, David Marcus. She is survived by her loving husband of 46 years, Ronald; sons, David (Ann Kosobud) of Indianapolis, Jeremy (Gail Griffin) of NYC; grandchildren, Daniel, Michael and Benjamin; cousins, nieces and ne
 KLESTADT--Berta Merker, of Jackson Heights, NY on March 30th. Berta leaves her sons Gary, Alan and Peter, her daughters-in-law Yvette Caro, Barbara Klestadt and Trish Mairs, and her grandchildren Alexandra, Erica, Andrea, Lauren, Adam, David and Andrew. Services will be held Sunday, April 1
 PEAKE--Ann Journeay, beloved wife of the late David Wainwright Peake, mother of three children and a doting grandmother to seven grandchildren, died March 13, 2007. She was 81 years old and resided in Houston and Hunt, Texas. Born March 28, 1925 in Liverpool, England, she was the daughter o
 RAKOW--Jane. To know you was to love you. Deepest sympathy to all the family. You will be sorely missed. Elaine $(6$)RAKOW--Jane Zamochnick devoted wife of the late Dr. Robert B. Rakow. Adored mother of Cheryl and Leonard Spilka and Ilene and Mark Zelniker. Cherished grandmother of 
 REILLEY--Elizabeth Kals, of Muttontown, LI on March 29th, 2007 in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Ewing. Aunt of Maria Kals Opie and Karen Kals Ezekiel. Great-aunt of Jane Opie Maltan and Andreas Maltan. Also survived by special caregivers Jesus and Amparo Martinez. Friends may vis
 STEINBERG--Jean, 88, March 23, after a long illness, predeceased by her husband Abraham. Schlaf Wohl. Gertrude, Jayne and Bob       
 WHEELWRIGHT--Lily, (Elizabeth Hicks Wheelwright), died unexpectedly March 22, at age 24. Dearly loved daughter of Peter Wheelwright and Eliza Hicks of New York City. Sister of Josephine and Matt. Granddaughter of Mary Wheelwright of Camden, ME and Beth Hicks of Greenwich, CT. There will be 
 RUBENSTEIN--Estelle, nee Bauman, born March 4, 1912, died peacefully in her home, March 27, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Murray Rubenstein. She was a brilliant financial advisor, and loyal colleague and friend to many. She is survived by her daughters, Judith Schaffer and Alice Brent, gra
 CUTLER--Ethel. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her sister Rhoda and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Sr Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman, Chairman of The Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, Pres
 SAVITSKY--Helen, 88, died on March 25th. During WWII she served with the O.S.S. in Europe. She was married for 58 years to Dr. Elias Savitsky. She is survived by her children Joan and Richard, and a sister Marjorie Karter. Donations may be made to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.       
 DORAN--Frances Elizabeth, on April 1, 2007 of Manhasset, NY. Beloved wife of the late John A. Dear mother of Mary Jane Milton, Kathleen Kelly, John A. Doran Jr., Dennis Doran, Patricia Chlupsa, Suzanne Lynch, Eileen Brower, William Doran and Timothy Doran. Also survived by 30 grandchildren 
 HAVIVI--Rita, died March 30, at home, at peace, surrounded by family. Born in Bialystock, Poland, in 1916, educated in France and the U.S., Rita served in intelligence in Panama during World War II. Fluent in nine languages, she later taught French and Russian in public school; her love of 
 SCHAEFFER--Irene. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Irene Schaeffer. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Emanuel and family Michael Yohai, President $(6$)SCHAEFFER--Irene. My constant cheerleader and
 FLANAGAN - FARRELL-Kathryn Veronica. Kathryn Coady moved through many names in life. Her favorites were Mother and MaMere: Mother to nine, MaMere to 30. To the world, she was Mrs. Flanagan, or Mrs. Flanagan-Farrell, or simply Kate. Let's remember her like that: simply Kate. Kate died of com
 REILLEY--Elizabeth Kals. The Board, staff, and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of Elizabeth Kals Reilley, garden lover, bibliophile, and librarian. She donated to the Botanical Garden her collection of more than 400 of the most important publications
 BOYER--Renee S. In memory of my mother, who died suddenly at Lenox Hill Hospital on April 3rd, 2006. Remembered as a gifted student and piano player, loving daughter and mother, and always as an animal lover, caring for many animals during her lifetime in Murray Hill. Rest in peace, you are
 Belinda Wright, a British ballerina who toured the world and excelled in the 19th-century Romantic and classical repertory, died on Sunday in Zurich, Switzerland. She was 78. The cause was a coronary ailment, said J. David Enright IV, a spokesman for her family. Ms. Wright a
 María Julia Hernández, a prominent human rights advocate who braved death squads to speak for the victims of the long civil war in El Salvador, died Friday in San Salvador, the capital. She was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said her aides at Tutela Legal, the human rights offi
 FREUND--Shelley, adoring wife of Leonard, devoted mother of Jay and Bud, and loving grandmother of Jesse, Daniel, Hannah and Charlotte. Passed away peacefully in her sleep, surrounded by family, good friends and wonderful memories. We love and miss you Ma. You had style.       
 ROTHSCHILD--Diane. The Board of Directors and her many friends at 965 Fifth Avenue mourn the loss of their dear friend, Diane. She added much to our lives and we will miss her dearly. Our hearts go out to Ali, Alan and Brenda.       
 ROTHSCHILD--Diane. A remarkable woman whose talent and wit were matched only by her courage. We feel lucky to have shared the wonderful adventure that was Grace & Rothschild Advertising, and our hearts go out to Alan, Ali and Brenda. Marcia, Jess and Nick Grace       
 SCHAEFFER--Irene. Our wonderful, special and dear friend. She was a shining light in the lives of all who had the privilege of knowing her. We will all miss her very much. Our sincere condolences to Mannie and the family. Dee and Arthur       
 WEITZMAN--Yaffa. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. All our love. Jerrold and C. Jeremy       
 Diane Rothschild, an advertising executive and copywriter who headed her own firm and created pithy and amusing ad campaigns, including some for the Range Rover off-road vehicle and J&B Scotch, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63. The cause was lung cancer, her husban
 HANSON--Bernice. Easton: Bernice Hanson died at Heartfields Assisted Living Facility in Easton, MD, on April 4th, 2007. She was 91. She was born in Chicago. While still a student at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, she traveled to China to teach in a government school, leaving as 
 NACK--Harriet Wexler, 81, died peacefully March 31, 2007, in Manhattan. A beloved mother and sister, she is survived by her sons David and Jonathan and her sister Edith Milchen. She was predeceased by her parents Sarah and Ben Wexler, and her brother Frank. A life-long resident of New York 
 ROTHSCHILD--Diane, The One Club and its board of directors mourn the loss of Diane Rothschild, esteemed former member of the board, award winning copywriter and 2005 Creative Hall of Fame inductee. She fought bravely with lung cancer. Diane began her legendary career as a copywriter at Doyl
 KERNOCHAN--Adelaide. Beloved wife of Jack, adored mother of John, Denny, Sarah, Wayne and Rose. Author and educator, her extensive travels and tireless work for UNESCO produced UN bestseller ''World Concerns and the United Nations'', innovative model teaching units for schools worldwide, wh
 Elizabeth Kals Reilley, a horticultural librarian, scholar and book collector who amassed a major private collection of rare books on landscape design, died on March 29 at her home in Muttontown, N.Y. She was 99. Her death was announced by the New York Botanical Garden, to which in 
 LERNER--Mimi. The New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of mezzo-soprano Mimi Lerner after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. We fondly recall her rich, warm voice and memorable performances here in operas including Alcina, Norma, and Central Park; and just as vividly recollec
 SILBER--Pauline R, ''Nafla Ateret Rosheinu'' Most devoted wife of the late Joseph F. Beloved mother of William L, Joy, and Jinny Pinsky. Loving mother-in-law of Lillian Silber and Jerry Pinsky. Adoring and adored grandmother and great-grandmother. She leaves a tremendous void and will be so
 APT--Helen, beloved mother of Stephanie, Charles and Michael, devoted grandmother of Alexis, Julia, Katherine, Teddy, Austin, Annalise and Lillian, beloved wife of her recently departed soul mate, Harold, passed away on Thursday, April 5 after a brief but valiant battle against cancer. The 
 COLE--Rosanne E., Ph.D., on April 6th, 2007. Beloved of Cole and DiPaola families and countless friends. She was an internationally respected economist, with a career as consultant and economic forecaster including long service with the IBM corporation. Friends may call Sunday, April 8th, 7
 EIZENSTAT--Sylvia. We extend our deepest sympathy to Stu and Fran Eizenstat and their family on the passing of Stu's mother, Sylvia, on April 5th. She passed away at 93 after a full and happy life. She was a source of unending love and inspiration for her closely knit family and friends. Gr
 FEAREY--Mary Senior, of Edgartown, MA and formerly of New York City, died in her home, on Sunday, April 1. She was the widow of the late Morton Fearey, who died in 1988 and who was a partner in the law firm of Davis, Polk and Wardwell. Mrs. Fearey, a graduate of Concord Academy in 1932 and 
 GORDON--Lila, passed away on April 7th, 2007. Beloved wife of Seymour Gordon. Deeply adored mother of Nancy, Robert, and Peter. Cherished grandmother of David, Sara, Erica, Hannah, and Kyle. Daughter of David and Anna Feldman, and sister of Irving Feldman and Betty Drucker. She was a woman 
 HELSEL--Clara. April 1. Loving stepmother, grandmother, GG to all The Helsels. She will not be forgotten.       
 JAFFEE--Isabel, mother, grandmother, friend, and activist, died March 13, after a heroic battle with cancer. Committed to peace and social justice, Isabel's adventurous spirit, humor and sage advice will be sorely missed. She is survived by daughters, Anna and Cyrisse, sons-in-law Kevin Bri
 ROTHSCHILD--Diane, The One Club and its board of directors mourn the loss of Diane Rothschild, esteemed former member of the board, award winning copywriter and 2005 Creative Hall of Fame inductee. She fought bravely with lung cancer. Diane began her legendary career as a copywriter at Doyl
 SHWAM--Ruth, born and raised in Brooklyn, died April 2, at age 87. She was the beloved mother of Paula and Marcy; GM of Donna, Marjie, Matthew, Luke and Daniel; GG of Ariel, Talia, Andrew, Ruth Zoe, Eliana, Danny, Lena, Jonah and William; and matriarch of so many more. As the last surviving
 SILBER--Pauline R, ''Nafla Ateret Rosheinu'' Most devoted wife of the late Joseph F. Beloved mother of William L, Joy, and Jinny Pinsky. Loving mother-in-law of Lillian Silber and Jerry Pinsky. Adoring and adored grandmother and great-grandmother. She leaves a tremendous void and will be so
 WENCKHEIM--Countess Dorothea, on April 4, 2007. Beloved wife of Count Nicholas Wenckheim. Cherished by family and friends. Died peacefully at home. An accomplished painter, her works are exhibited in museums and private collections around the world. A brilliant woman who lived life to the f
 WORMSER--Ivri Patricia. Beloved wife of the late Charles Wormser of New Netherlands Coin Co. Survived by loving children Andrew and Nina; their spouses Ellen and Stephen; her adoring grandchildren Matthew, Ben, Rebecca, Kate and Emma; and by brother Michael Wolfe Murray.       
 GERNSBACK--Madelon, 98, on March 29, 2007, in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL of natural causes. Born July 19, 1909, in New York City, daughter of famed inventor, publisher and ''father of science fiction'' Hugo Gernsback and Rose Harvey Gernsback. She spent most of her adult life in Italy working fo
 BOYER--Renee S. In memory of my mother, who died suddenly at Lenox Hill Hospital on April 3rd, 2006. Remembered as a gifted student and piano player, loving daughter and mother, and always as an animal lover, caring for many animals during her lifetime in Murray Hill. Rest in peace, you are
 APT--Helen, beloved mother of Stephanie, Charles and Michael, devoted grandmother of Alexis, Julia, Katherine, Teddy, Austin, Annalise and Lillian, beloved wife of her recently departed soul mate, Harold, passed away on Thursday, April 5 after a brief but valiant battle against cancer. The 
 COLE--Rosanne E., Ph.D., on April 6th, 2007. Beloved of Cole and DiPaola families and countless friends. She was an internationally respected economist, with a career as consultant and economic forecaster including long service with the IBM corporation. Friends may call Sunday, April 8th, 7
 EIZENSTAT--Sylvia. We extend our deepest sympathy to Stu and Fran Eizenstat and their family on the passing of Stu's mother, Sylvia, on April 5th. She passed away at 93 after a full and happy life. She was a source of unending love and inspiration for her closely knit family and friends. Gr
 GORDON--Lila, passed away on April 7th, 2007. Beloved wife of Seymour Gordon. Deeply adored mother of Nancy, Robert, and Peter. Cherished grandmother of David, Sara, Erica, Hannah, and Kyle. Daughter of David and Anna Feldman, and sister of Irving Feldman and Betty Drucker. She was a woman 
 KEHOE--Veronica Lally, 64, peacefully at home after a two year illness she bore with great grace, strength and dignity and at the same moment the Easter Vigil service at St. Ignatius Loyola Church she loved so much for so many years was beginning. She is survived by her loving husband, John
 KOCH--Natalie, our beautiful, funny, loving daughter, sister, granddaughter, godchild, cousin and friend of many died unexpectedly on April 5, 2007 at the age of 18. Natalie was presently a senior at Westhill High School in Stamford, CT. She was an artistic, social and loving girl. She is s
 LeBLANG--Nancy Baron. Beloved wife, mother, sister, grandma, teacher and friend, passed peacefully on March 31st. She will be missed dearly and always remembered with a smile by all those whose lives she touched.       
 ROTHSCHILD--Diane. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Diane Rothschild. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. P
 SACKOFF--Martin M., Dr., of Cedar Grove, NJ. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father of Ellen Aidekman and her husband Rick, brother of Esther Allen. Information please call 1-800-938-6372       
 SINGER--Leona. Mimi, your gracious spirit and brilliant style will live with us forever. Love, Pam, Keith, Brad, Maddie, Hayden $(6$)SINGER--Leona. To our mimi who we loved and will be a part of us forever. Love, Rod and Cliff $(6$)SINGER--Leona. We our saddened to announce the peaceful pas
 STUART--Catherine, Ph.D., The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society are deeply grieved by the sudden loss of one of it's most treasured and beloved colleagues. Dr. Stuart was intimately involved in almost every vital aspect of Institute functioning; as Training and Supe
 DIESENHOF--Ellen W., of Genesee, CO, was born in Brooklyn, New York on November 23, 1940. She was raised and educated in Brooklyn, meeting her future husband, Martin Diesenhof, in kindergarten. She and Martin spent summers at Masad Camp in Pennsylvania. She attended the University of Michig
 GREEN--Beatrice Stella, 91, of Oak Hill Manor, Ithaca, New York, died on April 3. She was born in Brooklyn, New York on September 1, 1915 to Yetta and Wolf Kosofsky. She is survived by her daughters, Victoria Borus and Stefanie Green, and her grandson, Joseph Lehman. She loved poetry, histo
 JORDAN--Eileen (nee Murphy), of Rockville Centre and Breezy Point, entered into eternal life, at her home surrounded by her family on Easter Sunday, April 8th, 2007 in her 82nd year. Loving wife of 58 years to Jerry. Devoted mother of Richard (Evelyn), Dennis, Kevin, Reverend Brian Jordan (
 KEHOE--Veronica Lally, 64, peacefully at home after a two year illness she bore with great grace, strength and dignity and at the same moment the Easter Vigil service at St. Ignatius Loyola Church she loved so much for so many years was beginning. She is survived by her loving husband, John
 LOEWY--Hanna, of Manhattan, died March 31. She was 81. Born in Vienna to Psychiatrist/Neurologist Paul and Alice ''Lili'' Loewy, she immigrated in 1938 and later became a vital part of the circle of intellectuals, writers, and artists that gathered at the Princeton home of her mother and st
 NEUMANN--Ina E., lived in New York for many years and worked for an International Publishing Company, died Wednesday April 4th, 2007. Hans Neumann, her beloved son of St. Louis, held a private memorial service on FridayApril 6. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends. Memorial 
 SINGER--Leona. There was truly only one Aunt Leona. It is the end of an era. We mourn for our cousins, Ellen and Connie, and their beautiful families. With love, Maura, Joel, Louise, and families $(6$)SINGER--Leona. We are saddened to announce the peaceful passing of Leona Singer at
 STERRITT--Virginia Grubb, died March 31st at her home in lower Manhattan. We will miss her. NY Services: Wednesday, April 11 at St Paul's Chapel, 209 Broadway, New York, NY at 12:30pm followed by a gathering at the nearby home of her son.       
 SCHWARTZ--Jeanette (Jay), (nee Perlmutter), 84, passed away on March 27, 2007. She was the wife of former Senator Murray Schwartz. Her children Fred Schwartz and Joanne Lebow, her five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren survive her, as do two of her sisters, Shirley Blitzer and Dor
 Elizabeth Jolley, an Australian writer who came to wide public attention only late in life, but whose distinctive literary voice and eccentric literary preoccupations eventually made her one of her country's most acclaimed novelists, died in Perth on Feb. 13. She was 83. Ms. Jolley'
 BUCEY--Judy. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Judy was a talented goldsmith and a gracious soul. She created exquisite jewels of precious gems. Judy was completely genuine; her kindness and gentleness were utterly natural. She brought light to all who knew her. We will mi
 CORNELL--Estelle, 82, of Brooklyn, NY, on April 10, 2007. She loved family, opera, and current events. Survived by sons Eugene (Susan), Gary, Raymond (Carol), and Saul (Susan), brother Burton (Helen) Rosan, granddaughters Shara, Rebecca, Alyssa, Emma, and Julia, and nieces, nephews, cousins
 DOUGLAS--Bernice, passed away on March 11, 2007, surrounded by loved ones. The daughter of Mae Simon, a star of the Yiddish Theater, and Herman Rubenstein, the ''actor's lawyer,'' she was a quintessential New Yorker who loved music, art, and almost nightly performances at Lincoln Center. Sh
 GREEN--Beatrice Stella, 91, of Oak Hill Manor, Ithaca, New York, died on April 3. She was born in Brooklyn, New York on September 1, 1915 to Yetta and Wolf Kosofsky. She is survived by her daughters, Victoria Borus and Stefanie Green, and her grandson, Joseph Lehman. She loved poetry, histo
 JONES--Mary Lea Bird, of Brooklyn, NY, and Saugatuck, MI, died April 8, 2007, age 80. Beloved wife of James I. Jones, Sr., Mother of Carol A. Peterson, Steven A. (Cathleen) Jones, James I. (Caroline, M.D.) Jones, Jr., M.D. Grandmother of Evan J. Peterson, James I. Jones III, Megan E. Jones,
 KEHOE--Veronica Lally, 64, peacefully at home after a two year illness she bore with great grace, strength and dignity and at the same moment the Easter Vigil service at St. Ignatius Loyola Church she loved so much for so many years was beginning. She is survived by her loving husband, John
 KERSHAW--Mary Anna, 93, died April 6th at her home in Lenox, Mass. She was the spirited and loved wife of Dr. Joseph A. Kershaw; mother of David N. Kershaw and Stephen Kershaw; mother-inlaw of Sharon Kershaw Worthington; grandmother of Sarah Kershaw and Amy Kershaw; and her legacy will be c
 NUSSBAUM--Muriel (nee Leventhal), passed in peace on April 7, 2007. A celebration of her life will take place at Matthews Lockwood Mansion in Norwalk, CT, May 20th, at 1:00 PM.       
 SINGER--Leona. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Leona Singer. We extend heart felt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F. Sharfstein, President       
 RAPAPORT--Millicent, age 96, of New York City, passed away peacefully on April 9, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Stanley. Devoted mother of Lew and Sue, and Richard. Loving grandmother of Billy and John and proud greatgrandmother of Alexander and Nicholas. Her life was filled with beautiful
 WASSERMAN--Barbara ''Rusty''. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the death of Rusty Wasserman, wife of Dr. Herbert Wasserman. She was an extraordinary woman who always had a smile on her face. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Sincere condolenc
 HAYES--Mary Kane Blair, of Quogue, NY, peacefully at her home on April 8, 2007. Beloved wife of Leonard Russell Hayes, dear sister of Kathleen Blair Leisure, Rosanne Blair Kelly and Edwin Janus Blair. Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated on Saturday, April 14, at 11am at the Church o
 KELLNER--Zoe Margit, died April 9th, 2007, at age 22. She died peacefully at home. She is survived by her mother Robin Kellner and countless friends and relatives who adored and treasured her. Services Thursday, 11am, at Frank E Campbell -The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave., NYC.       
 LEVENBROWN--Naomi. The Hebrew Academy of The Five Towns, and Rockaway, mourn the passing of our beloved Associate Principle, Mrs. Naomi Levenbrown. Naomi was a consummate professional, teacher, role model and cherished friend. She was the heart and soul of our institution, caring for the th
 STAMATO--Philomena (Frances), R.N., of Clifton, passed away April 10, 2007. She was married to Patsy Stamato who predeceased her in 1994. Surviving are three children, Patrick G. Stamato, Kathleen Innocenti, and Ronald J. Stamato; seven grandchildren; three sisters; several nieces and nephe
 RAPAPORT--Millicent, age 96, of New York City, passed away peacefully on April 9, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Stanley. Devoted mother of Lew and Sue, and Richard. Loving grandmother of Billy and John and proud greatgrandmother of Alexander and Nicholas. Her life was filled with beautiful
 Dakota Staton, a highly respected jazz and blues singer known from the 1950s on for her bright, trumpetlike sound and tough, sassy style, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 76 and had lived in New York for many years. Sharynn Harper, a spokeswoman for Ms. Staton's family, confirm
 CONWAY--Anne E., on April 11, 2007. Devoted aunt of Joseph IV and Mary Sturges, Robert D. and Kathy Sturges. Cherished great aunt of Christine M., Robert J. and Brian B. Sturges. Predeceased by her beloved parents Anna and David Conway and her loving sister Dorothy C. Sturges. Visitation Fr
 GOLDBERG--Bessie D. (nee Wilensky), born 1908. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Devoted mother of Carole and Marc; and to Aaron and Gail. Sister of Elinor Tannenbaum and the late Rebecca Grossman. A loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Past president of the New York and Nassau/Suffolk C
 HAYES--Mary Kane Blair, of Quogue, NY, peacefully at her home on April 8, 2007. Beloved wife of Leonard Russell Hayes, dear sister of Kathleen Blair Leisure, Rosanne Blair Kelly and Edwin Janus Blair. Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated on Saturday, April 14, at 11am at the Church o
 HOLESHA -- Winifred M. ''Winnie'', 57, of Palm Harbor, Florida, passed away peacefully on Good Friday, April 6, 2007 at Hospice House Woodside, Hospice of the Florida Suncoast, in Pinellas Park, FL. Originally from the Chicago area, she was an Advanced Nurse Practitioner, with 27 years of R
 WATERBURY--Jean Parker, writer, editor and historian, died at home in St. Augustine, Florida, Thursday, April 5. She was 91. Literary agent for Zora Neale Hurston, among others, in the 1950s. First woman president of the St. Augustine Historical Society, served on the boards of Collegiate S
 Mimi Lerner, an internationally renowned mezzo-soprano and educator who came to the operatic stage late in life, died on March 29 in Pittsburgh. She was 61. The cause was complications of a heart tumor diagnosed 12 years ago, said her husband, Martin. Ms. Lerner's career as 
 GOLDBERG--Bessie D. (nee Wilensky), born 1908. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Devoted mother of Carole and Marc; and to Aaron and Gail. Sister of Elinor Tannenbaum and the late Rebecca Grossman. A loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Past president of the New York and Nassau/Suffolk C
 WAKIN--Mary Lou, 75, on April 10 of lung disease. A native of Bridgeport, CT, and longtime Manhattanite, she was much loved by nephew Daniel Wakin, niece Vera Haller and grandnephews Thomas and Michael Wakin. Visitation April 15, 2-6pm, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave., 81s
 CRISP--Mary Dent, 83, passed on in her home in Phoenix, AZ on March 24, 2007. Born in Allentown, PA, she was the seventh child of Elizabeth Patch Dent and Harry Dent. Always positive and inspired by the world around her, Mary graduated in 1946 from Oberlin College and in 1948, married Willi
 CUTLER--Ethel R., Ph.D., 93, died peacefully in her sleep at home on Saturday, March 31st. Dr. Cutler was an art historian, artist, and university professor who had been retired for many years. She is survived by her loving sister, Dr. Rhoda Cutler, a clinical psychologist. Graveside servic
 DiNATALE--Ann. The entire Long Island College Hospital of Brooklyn family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Ann DiNatale, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Diana Sullivan, Vice President of Operations. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. To Diana, her siste
 MULLEN--Diane Macom, 75, of Spring Lake died on Wednesday April 11, 2007 at New York Presbyterian - Cornell Weill Medical Center in New York City. Prior to raising her family, Mrs. Mullen was a fashion model for the John Robert Powers and Frances Gill agencies in New York City. During her c
 RIEGER--Tina. The Board of Trustees of the Mint Theater mourn the loss of their fellow Trustee Tina Rieger, whose time with them was, like her life, all too short, but filled with generosity and thoughtfulness. We extend our deepest condolences to Howard and the family. Geoffrey Chinn, Chai
 SIEGEL--Laura, attorney for Prudential Securities at age 50. She is survived by husband Stephen Stern, daughters Tara, 17 and Samantha, 13; mother Tess Siegel, and brothers John and Robert.       
 STECHER--Beatrice (nee Seelav, Benedict). In Fort Myers, Florida, on April 12, 2007, after a brief illness. Survived by her daughter, Jo Anne Stecher, son-in-law Terrence Pardoe, and sister-inlaw, Jeanne Seelav. She served in the US Army for eight years during and after WWII at the Pentagon
 THALER--Carole, died on April 13, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Richard. Devoted and loving mother of Jacqueline, Michael and Gabrielle. Cherished daughter of Eleanore Rosen and sister of Stanley, Betsi and Larry, and sister-in-law of Nancy. Dearest aunt of Jeffrey, Matthew, Jaime, David a
 FITZPATRICK--Noreen E. (nee Walsh), on April 13th, 2007. Beloved wife of Richard C. Loving mother of Kerry Danaher and Richard Jr. Proud grandmother of Egan, William and Brigid. Devoted daughter of Hannah (nee Galvin). Dear sister of Joan W. Moore. Cherished aunt of Elizabeth Barton, Christ
 BLUM--Claire. The UJA, Jersey City mourns the passing of Claire Blum. Claire was chairman of UJA of Jersey City over 20 years. Chair of the UJA, Jersey City's Russian Resettlement Board, she managed settlement of over 1000 Soviet, Iranian, Syrian, and Iraqi Jews in New Jersey: Member of gov
 GIESSER--Evelyn, 86, died on April 12th. Beloved wife and cherished mother and grandmother, she was devoted to her family. The respect for learning which she imparted to her children made possible their professional careers. She will be remembered for her strength of character, gracious spi
 HIRSH--Barbara Vigdor. Beloved wife of the late Walter. Devoted mother of Steven and Alan. Devoted mother-inlaw of Alice. Sister of the late Burt. Loving grandmother to Jonathon, Becki, Jamie, Adam, Samantha, Bret, and Craig. Her love and caring will be missed. Her strength and grace will a
 LEINER--Lydia Bohmer, age 97, of Rego Park, NY, died April 11, 2007. She lived a remarkable life. She grew up in Vienna, Austria, and came to New York in 1939, saving her husband and mother, Fanny Fuerth, from the Nazis. Her beloved first husband, Willy Bohmer died in 1977. Lydia was a wond
 PETO--Hanna, beloved wife of the late Dr. Andrew Peto, cherished mother of Agnes Jacobs, loved and adoring grandmother of Julie Menin and great-grandmother of Max, Mason and Lucas Menin. Also survived by devoted son-in-law, Dr. Robert Jacobs and grandson-in-law Bruce Menin. Hanna touched th
 THALER--Carole, died on April 13, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Richard. Devoted and loving mother of Jacqueline, Michael and Gabrielle. Cherished daughter of Eleanore Rosen and sister of Stanley, Betsi and Larry, and sister-in-law of Nancy. Dearest aunt of Jeffrey, Matthew, Jaime, David a
 Pat Buckley, for decades a leading player on Manhattan's social and charity benefit circuit, died yesterday in Stamford, Conn. Mrs. Buckley, the wife of William F. Buckley Jr., the writer, editor and television commentator, was 80. She died of an infection after a long illness, acco
 Mary D. Crisp, whose stalwart advocacy of feminism and abortion rights as national co-chairman of the Republican Party led to her ouster in 1980 and a sharp rebuke from the party's presidential candidate, Ronald Reagan, died on March 24 at her home in Phoenix. She was 83. Ms. Crisp'
 Mollie Orshansky, a statistician and economist who in the 1960s developed the federal poverty line, a measurement that shaped decades of social policy and welfare programs, died Dec. 18 at her home in Manhattan, a family member said yesterday. She was 91. The cause was cardiopulmona
 BUCKLEY--Pat. The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the loss of our long time Advisory Council Member, Pat Buckley. Over the years, The Society's events benefitted enormously from Pat's advice, humor and style. She will be greatly missed. Mrs. Bijan Safai, President T
 DREXLER--Beatrice C., who ran Candy Mountain Day Camp in New City, Rockland County, New York for more than 30 years before her retirement, died April 16, at the age of 92, Her husband, the late Elias J. Drexler, was the senior vice president in the U.S. of FujFilm. She was a loving mother t
 FANNING--Margaret Frueauff, actress and director, known on the Broadway Stage as Margaret Perry. Daughter of Antoinette Perry and Frank Frueauff. Born in Denver in 1913 she passed away at home in Colorado at age 94. Survived by sons and daughter and numerous grandchildren and greatgrandchil
 GOLDBERG--Rose, 96. Beloved wife of Jesse, devoted mother to Harriet and Stephen (Susan). Loving grandmother to Debi and greatgrandmother to Jessie. Her unconditional love, kindness and wisdom will always be remembered.       
 GRAND--Bessie, 95, died surrounded by loved ones at home in Manhattan on Saturday, April 14th. ''Bubbie'', as she was known, was adored and revered by her family, friends and caregivers. A painter, baker and world traveler, Bubbie will be remembered always for her wisdom, humor, impeccabili
 GANIS--Florette, died April 16, peacefully in her sleep. She leaves to mourn her loss, a loving son Sheldon and wife Susan, caring daughter Linda and husband Mark, four grandchildren Danielle, Eric, Sean, and Michael. She will be greatly missed by all. Services will be held Wednesday, April
 GARRY--Marshall S., husband of Eileen, Father of Josh (Rona) Garry, Paul (Susan Rollins) Garry, Stephanie (Art Tatge) Garry. Brother of Jackie Garry. Grandfather of Aaron (Shawna), Michael, David, Ben, Leslie and Zach Tatge. Services at Congregation Beth Torah, 6100 W. 127th St., Overland P
 Kitty Carlisle Hart, a doyenne of New York culture and society and a perennial entertainer who appeared on Broadway and in films and was still singing on the stage as recently as last fall, well into her 10th decade, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. The cause was h
 ADELAAR--Florence. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our Honorary Trustee and devoted member for almost 90 years. We will miss her love for her family, friends and Temple. Our deepest condolences to her children, Richard, Karen and Peter and all their dear ones. Ro
 BILLIK--Marilyn, of Livingston, New Jersey and Boca Raton, Florida, died on April 18 of lung cancer at home surrounded by family. Stylish and radiant, possessing of a joyous sense of humor, treasured by family and friends, she was raised in Millburn, New Jersey, went to Kent Place School an
 BURRILL--Helena VanCortlandt, suddenly April 10. Born April 28, 1924, she was predeceased by her beloved parents, Elizabeth Morris Mordaunt Burrill and Drayton Burrill, and her brother, Gerry. A memorial service will be held on April 24, at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, Fifth Avenue at 2:30 
 CECALA--Mary, passed away peacefully in her sleep on April 18th at the Mary Manning Walsh Home at age 90. She leaves to mourn her loss a loving son Joseph and wife Kathleen, five grandchildren and their spouses, Joseph, Jr., Kristen and Jason, Patrick, Benny and Danielle and Joey and Alexan
 CRYSTAL--Eleanor, on April 15th, 2007, due to complications from cancer. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Loving mother of Ralph (Elayne) Crystal and Sarah (Larry) Erwich. Sister of Ruth (Howard) Edelman and the late Albert (Renee) Landesberg. Grandmother of Jeremy, Carl, Amy (Joey), and 
 DALTON--Madeline Eileen, on April 16, educator and Olympic fencing athlete, died at the Franciscan Oaks Health Center in Denville, NJ. She was 93. Resident of Manhattan and Rainbow Lakes, NJ. Retired in 1979 as Director of Special Education Department City of NY. Graduate of Hunter College,
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart, our irrepressible, multi-talanted, and much loved Honorary Trustee, colleague, and friend. Always a celebrated champion of the arts in New York, she turned her personal a
 KUSHNER--Doris. Sisterhood Park East Synagogue extends its deepest sympathy to our beloved past President and current Co-Chairman of the Board Ninette Stiskin, and to her family on the loss of her beloved mother. Polly Etkind Hochberg, President Lois Kirsh, Co-Chairman $(6$)KUSHNER-
 LOWEN--Barbara J., 50, died April 15 in New York of breast cancer. A freelance photographer she worked at Sotheby's. She was a native of Minneapolis. Memorial information at www.caringbridge.org (barblowen).       
 POSNER--Marilyn, 80 years old, died Monday from complications due to pulmonary disease. A civil rights activist, she served the NYC Board of Education for 30 years, she was also an actress and proud SAG member. She was married to the late Assemblyman Sy Posner, and is survived by her twin s
 WEISBERG--Fay (nee: Goodman), wife of the late Leopold Weisberg, mother of Martin Weisberg, mother-in-law of Tracey Weisberg, devoted grandmother of Margot and Clayton, sister of Arthur Goodman, sister-in-law of Helene Goodman and Harriet and Marty Shapiro and aunt to her nieces and nephews
 Marie M. Clay, an internationally known educator who developed a remedial reading program known as Reading Recovery, which has been used with millions of children around the world, died last Friday in Auckland, New Zealand. She was 81 and lived in Auckland. Ms. Clay died after a bri
 Natalia Clare, a member of both of the influential Ballets Russes troupes of the 1940s and '50s and the founder of a prominent Los Angeles ballet school, died April 8 at her residence in Torrance, Calif. She was 87. The cause was complications of a stroke, said her son, Alex Tupine,
 BAILLIEUL--Geneva J. Southwick teacher, artist and amateur musician, known for her work in the community of Southwick, Massachusetts, died on April 14 at Avery Manor in Needham MA, after a long illness. She was 90. Geneva Jeanette Gillam was born in Boise Idaho and raised on a ranch where s
 BLAU--Henrietta. Born August 4, 1915, in Brooklyn, NY. Henrietta died peacefully on April 17, 2007 after a brief hospital stay. She was predeceased by her beloved twin sister Hortense Millendorf of Philadelphia, and is survived by her niece Carole Fiore of Tallahassee, FL, her nephew David 
 GOLDSMITH--Frieda Kittay. Cherished wife of the late A. Philip Goldsmith and the late Sol Kittay. An elegant woman and role model of femininity, she brought grace and beauty to all she knew. Fluent in many languages and very much involved in the world of the arts, in particular French histo
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Kitty Carlisle Hart. A true champion of the arts, Kitty was a tireless and persuasive advocate who, as Chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, fought to ensure
 LEYNSE--Judith L., who served as director of media relations for the Committee to Protect Journalists from 1996 through 1999, and as the longtime associate director of Columbia University's Office of Public Information, died peacefully in her sleep Sunday morning at her home in Manhattan. S
 WEISS--Carol.Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 Helen Robson Walton, whose husband, Sam Walton, founded Wal-Mart Stores and relied on her for advice, died on Thursday at her home in Bentonville, Ark. She was 87. Ms. Walton died of natural causes, said Mona Williams, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart. Sam Walton is said to have c
 ECKMANN--Muriel Machanoff, of Del Ray Beach, FL, formally of Charleston, WV and Yonkers, NY. On April 20th, age 89. Wife of Leonard M. Eckmann (died 1986). Graduate of NYU as a Dietician. Survived by her sister Selma Raskin of Roslyn, NY, and brother Theodore Machanoff of TN, her children M
 GOLDSMITH--Frieda Kittay. Cherished wife of the late A. Philip Goldsmith and the late Sol Kittay. An elegant woman and role model of femininity, she brought grace and beauty to all she knew. Fluent in many languages and very much involved in the world of the arts, in particular French histo
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the death of Kitty Carlisle Hart. Kitty was an Honorary Member of the Museum's Board of Trustees since 1996 and a member of MoMA's Education and Special Events committees. This gifted actress and entertainer was 
 GOLDSMITH--Frieda Kittay. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home & Hospital mourn the passing of a generous benefactor, Frieda Kittay Goldsmith. For over 37 years, Mrs. Goldsmith has supported Kittay House, named in honor of herself and her first husband, Sol Kittay.
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. You taught us all how to discover our voice and our spirit, to find our light, and to shine like the glow of your glorious smile. I will always remember and love you. Ted Berger $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Musical Instruments Department of The Metropolitan Museum of
 HOLT--Carol, 70, of Stratford, CT, on April 11, 2007. Psychiatric social worker, clinical faculty at Yale University. Mother of Elizabeth and Stephen, mother-in-law of Laura, devoted grandmother of Philetus and Tattnall. Graduate of Barnard College, Fulbright Scholar in Economics at the Uni
 LEYNSE--Judith L. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Judith L. Leynse. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posn
 McDOUGALD--Mildred Holloway, died on March 16, 2007, in Somers, NY, at the age of 97. Born in Charleston, SC, she was a long-time New Yorker, teaching in the New York City Public School system from which she retired as an assistant principal. She will be missed by many. Widow of Cornelius M
 McGUIRE--Mary Doogan, age 97. Survived by loving daughter and son-in-law, Barbara Ann and David S. Cook, cherished grandsons, Andrew David and Peter James Cook, devoted brother Edmund H. Doogan, Jr. Predeceased by beloved husband Paul J. McGuire, sister Elizabeth Doogan Bishara, brother Fra
 RADWELL--Jeanne, 86, died at home peacefully on April 16, 2007, surrounded by loved ones. She was adored, admired and respected by a large, loving extended family, by friends, old and new, and by most gracious caretakers. Her loss will be felt by her daughters Laura and Amy and son-in-law C
 WEISS--Carol, age 80, peacefully on April 19 at her home in East Williston after battling Alzheimers. Beloved wife of Robert Weiss. Carol graduated NYU School of Commerce in 1947. A skilled accountant and leader, she passionately loved and served her family. She is also survived by her lovi
 E. Dorrit Hoffleit, an astronomer who studied the features of stars visible to the naked eye, edited a standard reference on them and was probably the oldest working scientist in her field, died on April 9 at her home in New Haven. She was 100. Dr. Hoffleit's death was confirmed by 
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Members and Staff of the New York State Council on the Arts express their deep sadness at the passing of their beloved former Chairman, Kitty Carlisle Hart. Affectionately known to us as Kitty, she was a vital mainstay of our agency for more than three decades, dis
 HONICKMAN--Beverly, passed away peacefully on April 22, 2007, age 83. Beloved mother and grandmother, devoted wife of the late Milton. Survived by daughter Paula Destefano and sons Steven and Harris. Granddaughters Lori and Melissa Destefano, grandsons Matthew and Noah Honickman. Lived a se
 CITRON--Ruth Greenwald, 98, formerly of White Plains, NY died April 20th, in Chatham, MA. She was the mother of John and Ellen Citron of Harwich, MA and the late Peter Citron. She was the wife of the late Dr. Louis Citron, and grandmother of Jim and Marjie Citron. Donations may be made to H
 FOX--Eileen, on April 23rd, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Francis A. Fox. She was a devoted worker and volunteer for the Roman Catholic Church and was affectionately known as the ''Mayor'' of Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town community. She will be missed by her relatives and her ma
 HANF--Lotte Wallach, of Cornwall, CT, died on April 22. Daughter of the late Moritz and Meta Wallach of Munich, widow of the late Erich Hanf, she is predeceased by her daughter Brigitte Hanf-Enos. She is survived by her daughter Catherine Hanf Noren, her granddaughter Eve HanfEnos, her sist
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. In memory of our talented, joyous friend Kitty. Catherine $(6$)HART--Kitty Carlisle. A beloved friend of our foundation and a devoted supporter of its mission to help visual artists. We shall miss her deeply. Eugene Victor Thaw, President Emeritus Charles C. Bergman, C
 HENDRIE--Linda (Journer), of Cambridge, MA, April 19th. Devoted wife of Richard K. Hendrie. Loving mother of Andrew Q. Kraft. Cherished grandmother of Emilia and Jayden Kraft. A memorial service will be held on Saturday April 28th, 2007 at the Herrick House, 269 Highland St., Dedham, MA 020
 KUHN--Mary A., 96 years old, passed away on April 22, 2007. She was a lifelong resident of the Bronx and Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home. She is survived by her three children; Dolores M. Ingles; Rev. George J. Kuhn (Pastor of St. Joseph; church in Yonkers) and Mary T. Kuhn. Also survived b
 PRICE--Felicia. Sister of Mae and Harold, wife of Norman, mother of Michael and Claudia, grandmother of Cali and Chance Forbes, Jordan, Andrew, Jonathan, Charlie, Grace and Teddy Price and great-grandmother of Taylor Ehmann. Born in Brooklyn, New York on May 29th, 1915 to Michael and Sarah 
 ROBINSON--Yvette. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 BLAKE--Ethel. Maxwell Shmerler & Co. CPAs records with great sorrow the passing of Ethel Blake, our esteemed colleague for over 50 years. Ethel will be greatly missed by all who had the pleasure of working with her. Our condolences to her family.       
 BUTKIN--Bernice The Sepkowitz family notes with profound sadness the recent death of our friend and touchstone, Bernice Butkin, a closet New Yorker for almost 80 years. She was sanity personified for us and countless other stragglers who sought her counsel across the many decades. To sit on
 CANTER--Lenore Engel, 70, died Sunday morning, April 22, 2007. Beloved mother of Sheryl Canter, Neil Canter, and Nina Canter Fresco, and adored grandmother of Maia, Chloe and Melina Canter, and David and Eli Fresco. Lenore was an extraordinary, gifted woman. She loved the theater and her na
 GIGES--Shirley A. Loving wife, mother, grandmother and great - grandmother passed away early Tuesday morning, the 24th of April. Born in Valdosta, GA, January 22, 1922, she moved to White Plains in 1955 with her husband, Melvin, and three children. She devoted her life to her family and was
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Aston Magna Foundation for Music mourns the passing of Kitty Carlisle Hart. For the past 25 years, she gave generously of her time, spirit and energy, both in New York and Great Barrington. She will be deeply missed. Lee M. Elman and the Board of Directors of Aston
 HITCHCOCK--Mari Watts, 97, prolific painter and muralist showed in London and America and had a retrospective of her work at the New Jersey State Museum. She left the earth from her home, on April 17, where she was surrounded by her three children. She was looking forward to her next advent
 MEGROZ--Barbara Huntington, of Mamaroneck, died April 22nd, 2007, at age 83. Barbara was born February 15th, 1924, to Majorie and Kenneth Huntington in New Rochelle, NY, a city founded by her French ancestors, the Hugenots. She was also a direct descendant of John and Priscilla Alden, membe
 PRICE--Felicia. Sister of Mae and Harold, wife of Norman, mother of Michael and Claudia, grandmother of Cali and Chance Forbes, Jordan, Andrew, Jonathan, Charlie, Grace and Teddy Price and great-grandmother of Taylor Ehmann. Born in Brooklyn, New York on May 29th, 1915 to Michael and Sarah 
 Anne Pitoniak, who began her stage career in late middle age, but received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut, in '' 'night, Mother,'' and had an enduring career playing strong-willed older women, died on Sunday at home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was complications of 
 BROOKS--Patricia, died April 14. Her service will be Sunday May 6th at 3pm. Riverdale Presbyterian Church, 4763 H. Hudson Pkwy., Bronx, NY.       
 CANTER--Lenore Engel, 70, died Sunday morning, April 22, 2007. Beloved mother of Sheryl Canter, Neil Canter, and Nina Canter Fresco, and adored grandmother of Maia, Chloe and Melina Canter, and David and Eli Fresco. Lenore was an extraordinary, gifted woman. She loved the theater and her na
 HART--Kitty Carlisle. The Board and Staff of the New York Foundation for the Arts gratefully acknowledge her lifelong contributions to the arts and to artists. She was our true champion and will be missed by all. Kathleen O'Grady, President Michael L. Royce, Executive Director       
 KAUFMAN--Lenore. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband, David, their sons, Jacob and Adam, and their loved ones. May her memory be for blessing and may her loved ones be comforted amidst the mo
 VARET--Frances Goldberg. Died peacefully at home on April 24th age 91. Beloved wife of the late Guster V. Varet and adored mother of Ellen Bock and Michael A. Varet. Also survived by her devoted grandchildren, Lauren Schwartz and her husband Adam, Joseph Varet, Sarah Varet and David Varet, 
 WEINBERGER--Geri, on April 23, age 64, at home. Geri died of complications from leukemia. Per her request, no service will be held. Respects may be paid at the home of her son, Mitchel Weinberger, 300 Iroquois Lane, Franklin Lakes, NJ, on April 29th through May 1st.       
 Emily W. Sunstein, an independent scholar known for writing biographies of an unconventional mother and her unconventional daughter -- Mary Wollstonecraft and Mary Shelley -- died on Saturday in Philadelphia. She was 82 and had lived in Philadelphia for many years. The cause was com
 FRANKEL--Norma, age 74, died on April 26, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Frankel, daughter of the late Harry and Helen Frank, mother of David, Ross, Harriet, and Charles, and daughters-in-law Lynn and Caren and son-in-law Marc. Loving and adoring grandmother of Deborah, Hilary, Meli
 KAUFMAN--Lenore, 61, deeply loved by her husband David, sons Jake and Adam, and adored by her father, brother and sister. A dedicated educator and impassioned teacher, she taught hundreds of children the joy of reading and the writing for joy. She will be greatly missed by all the worlds sh
 MORROW--Susan, 63, of Greenwich Village and Hollowville, NY, on April 18, 2007. Survived by her sister Claudia and many loving friends. Service Saturday, April 28 at 3pm, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square West. Donations to International Primate Protection League, P.O. Box 766, S
 PROTERO--Dodi. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Dodi Protero, a member of the Juilliard Evening Division faculty since 1991. She will be fondly remembered by her colleagues and students at Juilliard as a gifted, dedicated, and exuberant educator. We send our deep condolences to
 STARR--Adele. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Adele Starr, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Charles J. Block, President       
 VARET--Frances Goldberg. Died peacefully at home on April 24th age 91. Beloved wife of the late Guster V. Varet and adored mother of Ellen Bock and Michael A. Varet. Also survived by her devoted grandchildren, Lauren Schwartz and her husband Adam, Joseph Varet, Sarah Varet and David Varet, 
 HAZAN--Leslie Beth. To my daughter on her 44th birthday. You are in my heart now and always.       
 KRAMER--Carole A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Philatelic Foundation wishes to extend our heartfelt sympathy to Chairman George J. Kramer on the passing of his beloved Carole. Robert G. Rose, Vice Chairman $(6$)KRAMER--Carole Arch, age 70, died peacefully on April 26, 2007
 LANE--Madeleine, 94. Resident of Port Washington, NY, formerly of Plandome Manor. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick E. Lane, and mother of Joseph, Ila Lane Gross, Lewis, and Edward; mother-in-law of Bobbi, John Gross, Nancy, and Judy. Loved and adored grandmother of 11 grandchildren an
 MORROW--Susan, 63, of Greenwich Village and Hollowville, NY, on April 18, 2007. Survived by her sister Claudia and many loving friends. Service Saturday, April 28 at 3pm, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square West. Donations to International Primate Protection League, P.O. Box 766, S
 HOFHEIMER--Gertrude, 89, died April 27, 2007. Beloved mother of Nancy Sahlein (Steve), Ellen Bettmann (Michael), and Barbara Herson. Grandmother of William (Aly), Joanna, Julie, Robert, Daniel, and Benjamin. Greatgrandmother of Mackenzie, Zoe, and Elijah. In lieu of flowers, donations can b
 CANTER--Lenore Engel, 70, died Sunday morning, April 22, 2007. Beloved mother of Sheryl Canter, Neil Canter, and Nina Canter Fresco, and adored grandmother of Maia, Chloe and Melina Canter, and David and Eli Fresco. Lenore was an extraordinary, gifted woman. She loved the theater and her na
 CROSS--Lucille V., died in Auburn, CA, on March 21, 2007, in her 98th year. She formally lived in Pompano Beach, FL, and was the wife of the late Edwin J. Cross, founder of the Wall Street investment firm Roosevelt & Cross. She is survived by her daughter Nancy, of Lake Orion, MI, and her s
 FRANKEL--Norma, age 74, died on April 26, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Frankel, daughter of the late Harry and Helen Frank, mother of David, Ross, Harriet, and Charles, and daughters-in-law Lynn and Caren and son-in-law Marc. Loving and adoring grandmother of Deborah, Hilary, Meli
 GREENBERG--Beverly, age 83 on April 26, 2007. Beloved wife of Daniel, loving mother of Nancy, Jane and Mark and daughter-in-law Beverly. Devoted grandmother of Allison and Alexander. Her spirit and kindness will be missed by all.       
 LANE--Madeleine, 94. Resident of Port Washington, NY, formerly of Plandome Manor. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick E. Lane, and mother of Joseph, Ila Lane Gross, Lewis, and Edward; mother-in-law of Bobbi, John Gross, Nancy, and Judy. Loved and adored grandmother of 11 grandchildren an
 LEYNSE--Judith Light, 68, died in her sleep on April 15th at her home in New York. Her life was full of hope, love and purpose, and she will be greatly missed by all who knew her. She is survived by her sons, James and Andrew Leynse; their loving wives, Wendy Leynse and Mary Bacon; and two 
 LIEF--Ruth Hurok, daughter of impresario Sol Hurok died at home at the age of 99. She leaves a daughter Nessa Hyams Picker, a son Peter Hyams, three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. She was a friend and hostess to most of the greatest dancers and musicians of the 20th Century. Sh
 MAXWELL--Dr. Margaret. The Finch College Alumnae Association Foundation deeply mourns the loss of Dr. Margaret Maxwell, our inspirational mentor, professor and guiding light in the organization's formation, who died April 17. She has been our best friend and supporter in carrying forth the 
 PINSKER--Essie died in California February 24. A business executive, artist, wife and mother long before the Women's Movement. She leaves behind her son and daughter, Seth and Susan, their spouses, and granddaughter Siena. Memorial service Saturday, May 5, 10 AM -92nd Street Y in Manhattan.
 PROTERO--Dodi, 76, died of heart and lung failure on April 22, 2007. Born in Toronto, Canada, she went to Italy at 17 and made her European debut with the San Carlo Opera, Naples, in 1956 in 'Die Zauberflote'. Other opera engagements followed in Salzburg, Cologne, Glyndebourne, The English 
 ROWE--Jan Olivia. Family, friends, colleagues, and students mourn the death of Dr. Jan Rowe who died on Sunday, April 22, in Seattle. Jan Rowe was born in Statesboro, Georgia in 1947. She received her B.A. and doctorate in Counseling Psychology from Georgia State University. In 1982, Jan Ro
 SHERWIN--Cynthia Lynn, 33, died Thursday, April 26, 2007. Cindy suffered a brain aneurysm while biking, an activity she loved. She was an ardent and experienced tri-athlete and was in training for her first Ironman competition. Cindy was the beloved daughter of Richard and Margot Sherwin an
 DRINKWATER--Frederica Plimpton, in Bedford, MA, April 21, 2007, at the age of 90, after a brief illness. Formerly of Panton, VT and Hingham, MA. Devoted and beloved wife of the late Davis C. Drinkwater. Frederica and her husband lived an adventurous life, 17 years of farming in Vermont, fol
 BROOKS--Patricia, died April 14. Her service will be Sunday May 6th at 3pm. Riverdale Presbyterian Church, 4763 H. Hudson Pkwy., Bronx, NY.       
 COHEN--Linda Kay, died April 29, 2007. Beloved and adored wife of Steven R. Loving mother or Ricky and Todd, daughter of Henrietta and the late Jerome Eisenberg. Step-mother to Lisa (Eric) and Jason. Granny Linda to Jamie and Jack. Dearest friend of Valerie and Butch Elias. She will forever
 LEVINE--Anne F. The Peninsula Hospital Center and Peninsula Center for Extended Care and Rehabilitation families are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of one of its most admired and cherished friends, Anne F. Levine, PHC Auxiliary Co-President, Benefactor, devoted advocate for the hospi
 MARRITT--Sondra. Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother on April 28, 2007 after suffering with Alzheimer's Disease for many years. Matriarch of a large family, the last of six sisters and two brothers, keeping everyone together was one of her greatest accomplishments. Past Presid
 ZUPNICK--Beatrice. Bea, the love of Alex's life. Alex, the love of her life. They met at age 13 in French class at Lincoln High School. Married at 21 for 66 amazing years. He taught her about music and opera. She taught him about art and ballet. Both loved reading, theater, movies, and trav
 MUKHADZE--Nana. On May 2, at 2pm at the Columbarium of the Cathedral of St. John Divine there will be a memorial gathering to mark the one year anniversary of Nana Mukhadze's tragic death. Her grieving mother and brother, her many loving friends, and the public that was inspired by her pian
 Polly Hill, a horticulturist who stretched the boundaries of plant hardiness by gathering seeds from around the world, especially those of trees and shrubs that thrive in warmer climates, and studying which would sprout and then endure New England winters, died on Wednesday at her home in H
