 Lila Hotz Luce Tyng, the first wife of Henry R. Luce, founder of Time Inc., died on Wednesday at her home in Gladstone, N.J., five days after her 100th birthday. Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for sev
 Vera Tolstoy, a Russian refugee who became a teen-age bride in Czechoslovakia, worked as a hairdresser in Prague, sang Gypsy songs in Paris, sold perfume in New York and spent 25 years with the Voice of America in Washington, died on Monday at her retirement home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. S
 Felicia Gizycka Magruder, an American heiress who was kidnapped as a child by her father, a continental count, died on Feb. 26 at the Regency retirement community in Laramie, Wyo. She was 93 and moved to Laramie from New Canaan, Conn., in 1995. Mrs. Magruder was the former Countess 
 Lucille Lortel, whose pioneering efforts to bring innovative theater and adventurous new playwrights and actors to the American stage earned her the title Queen of Off Broadway, died on Sunday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 98 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport
 Dr. Mary D. Ainsworth, a developmental psychologist whose work revolutionized the understanding of the bond between mothers and infants, died in Charlottesville, Va., on March 21. She was 85. Dr. Ainsworth's research contributed significantly to attachment theory, which emphasizes t
 Darlene Geis, an author and editor, died on March 25 in a fire at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. Ms. Geis wrote a number of popular books for young readers. ''The Little Train That Won a Medal'' was published in 1947 and has sold more than three million copies. She was also the 
 Gladys Hasty Carroll, a novelist who wrote about the rural Maine of her childhood, died last Thursday at a hospital in York, Me. She was 94 and lived in South Berwick, Me. Ms. Carroll earned a Pulitzer Prize nomination for her 1933 work, ''As the Earth Turns,'' the story of a long-e
 Mary Jane Rathbun, who became known as the grandmotherly Brownie Mary who handed out brownies laced with high-grade marijuana to sick people to relieve their pain and nausea, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 77 and lived in San Francisco. Ms. Rathbun campaign
 Estelle Sapir, a Holocaust survivor who won a rare recovery of the family funds she had sought for half a century from a Swiss bank, died on Tuesday at her home in Far Rockaway, Queens. She was 73. Miss Sapir, who had been in poor health for some time, died of cardiac arrest, her ni
 Mary Lutyens, a well-born English  biographer and novelist who was applauded by critics on both sides of the Atlantic, died on April 9 in London. She was 90 and lived in London and the English county of Dorset. Miss Lutyens (pronounced LUTCH-ens) was a daughter of Sir Edwin Landseer
 Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin. Sh
 Grace Zia Chu, who introduced a generation of Americans to Chinese cuisine though her cooking classes in Manhattan and her landmark book ''The Pleasures of Chinese Cooking,'' died Thursday at a nursing home in Columbus, Ohio. She was 99. In an era when most Americans believed that c
 Baroness Batsheva de Rothschild, a patron of Martha Graham and of modern dance in Israel, died on Tuesday at her home in Tel Aviv. She was 84. The granddaughter of Baron James de Rothschild, the founder of the French branch of the Rothschild banking family, Baroness de Rothschild be
 Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, who transformed it from a tired magazine into a viable voice in fashion while she battled ovarian cancer and raised awareness of the disease, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 51 and had homes in Manhatt
 Patricia Bowman, a founding member of American Ballet Theater, a ballerina of the Radio City Music Hall and the first American ballerina to win critical acclaim and wide popularity as a classical and a musical-theater dancer, died on March 18 in Las Vegas, Nev., her home since 1977. She was
 Dr. Rose Payne, whose research into tissue compatibility at Stanford University over more than three decades helped advance the field of organ transplants, died on April 18 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 89 and had been living in Cupertino, Calif.        
 Lois Borwick Herman Rivkin, the founder and president of an organization linking business organizations and cultural institutions to New York City public schools, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 69. Mrs. Rivkin had lymphoma for the last six and a h
 Melba Liston, a trombonist and arranger who worked with some of the best bands in jazz, died on Friday after a series of strokes, said a friend, the pianist Randy Weston. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Liston is best known for her collaborations with Mr. Weston, including 
