 HOYT-Muriel Christie. The Department of Ophthalmology at New York-Cornell has been greatly saddened by her passing. We will miss her gracious presence and warm smile. The Hoyt family have for many years been thoughtful and generous benefactors to this department and Medical Center. We exten
 JOHNSON - Esther Underwood. Died at her home in Oldwick, New Jersey, at the age of 92 on Wednesday, April 28, 1999. She was married to the late J. Seward Johnson, Vice President of Johnson & Johnson. She was a philanthropic supporter of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, Planned Parenthood and W
 SHAKLEY-Delphine M. On April 28, 1999. Beloved wife of Mark, mother of Alexander, Jonathan, Oliver, Jennifer, and Jacob. Daughter of Jane and the late James McCosker, sister of Maureen, Timothy and Muriel. Funeral mass at St Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave at 84 St, Saturday, 12 Noon. Inte
 Michi N. Weglyn, author of an acclaimed book about the internment of Japanese-Americans in the United States during World War II, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 72. She had cancer, said Si Spiegel, the executor of her estate. Ms. We
 FRIEDMAN-Kathryn. On April 30, 1999. The family of Kathryn Friedman notes her death with great sadness. She will be missed. Service Monday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in her memory to the DeWitt Nursing Home, 211 East 79th Street, NY NY 10021
 KASSOF-Elaine, nee Freedman, formerly Hempling. April 30, in Pompano Beach, FL, after a valiant fight against cancer. She will be dearly missed by her children, Linda Candib and Richard Markx, and their spouses, Richie and Nadjia. She was loved by her grandchildren, Isaac, Jamel, Leyla and 
 KLEIN-Estelle. NCJW New York Section pays tribute to a beautiful lady. First Chairperson of Council Club for Older People now Council Senior Center. A member for 73 years, her spark and leadership will long be remembered. Bernice Friedes, Jean Krosner Co-Presidents       
 SHORE-Carol Tilles. Age 77. Loving wife and better half of Allan for 58 years; beloved mother of Allan Shore Jr., William Shore, and Marylu Simon & devoted motherin-law of Jill Shore; cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Beth, Chris, Michael and Julie; greatgrandmother of three and sister of 
 WINSTON-Sara Chapin. Of Gulfstream, FL, and Harbor Springs, MI, died at home in Gulfstream on April 27, 1999 at the age of 76. ''Sammy'' was born in Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, to Inez Tiedeman and Roy D. Chapin. Her father founded the Hudson Motor Car Company and served as Secretary of Commer
 Adele Woodhouse Erb Sullivan, who was president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution in the 1960's, died on April 22 in Wilton, Conn., at the home of her daughter, Nancy E. Thorne. She was 91 and a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y. Mrs. Sullivan wa
 Maria Stader, a soprano who was best known for the elegance of her Mozart performances, died on Tuesday in Zurich, The Associated Press reported. She was 87 and lived in Zurich. Ms. Stader made several operatic appearances, most notably as the Queen of the Night in a Covent Garden s
 BOGIN-Ruth (nee Fleischer). Suddenly, on April 30, 1999. Loving wife of the late George Bogin, beloved mother of Magda and Nina (Alain Buttard), adored grandmother of Cecilia and Valentine Buttard and Natasha Bogin. Lifelong friend. We are bereft, but will draw strength from her deepest qua
 BRUSH-Ellen Sparry. Anthropologist, on May 1, 1999. Wife of Charles F. Brush III, mother of Karen A. and Charles F., stepmother of Barbara Brush Wright and Danielle Schmid, grandmother of Christina Wright and Kelly Schmid, mother-in-law of Diane H. Brush. Contributions in her memory may be 
 WERSTEIN-Charlotte. The National Offices of Emunah of America mourn the loss of Charlotte Werstein, beloved sister of our Honorary National President and Financial Secretary, Shirley Billet. Charlotte was a woman who gave unstintingly of herself to her family, friends and Emunah. May the fa
 BRUSH-Ellen Sparry. Anthropologist, on May 1, 1999. Wife of Charles F. Brush III, mother of Karen A. and Charles F., stepmother of Barbara Brush Wright and Danielle Schmid, grandmother of Christina Wright and Kelly Schmid, mother-in-law of Diane H. Brush. Contributions in her memory may be 
 DIXON-Patricia Riley. A 30-year resident of Houston, TX, born in Oklahoma City, OK, on October 25, 1927, passed away from cancer on Monday, May 3, at Methodist Hospital in Houston. Patricia was the only child of Louise B. and Patrick J. Riley of Oklahoma City. Patricia graduated from Marymo
 FOGARTY-Judith Irene. Age 60. Died peacefully at home in Manhattan on May 2, 1999 after a long illness. A graduate of Fordham University, and a Copy Editor at ''People'' magazine, Ms. Fogarty loved New York and loved life. She will be greatly missed by her longtime companion, Marie P. Monac
 LOSTFOGEL-Frances C. (Fannie). Beloved wife of the late Herman Lostfogel, on May 2, 1999 at age 101 years. Widowed with three infant children, she successfully pioneered as the first woman manufacturer's representative in the paper industry, raising her family to adulthood with uncommon str
 MALAMUT-Marguerite. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Marguerite Malamut, wife of our esteemed past President Abe Malamut. May her sweet memory be a sustaining source of strength and comfort. Gerald C. Skolnik, Rabbi Erno Grosz, Cantor E
 MILLER-Gregg. 41. Of New York City, on April 30. Beloved daughter of Cindy Miller and of her late father, John Miller; loving sister of John J. Miller, Jr. A memorial service will be held at Holy Cross Church, 329 West 42nd Street, Thursday, May 6, at 6 p.m. We ask that friends of the famil
 MITCHELL-Florence Roth. Age 88. On May 2, 1999. Passed away three months after her beloved and adoring husband Moe (Morris). Survivors include son Jonathan (Sandra) of Dewey, AZ. and daughter Sarah (Telly) of New York City, grandchildren Barbara Mitchell, San Diego, David Anthony and Jessic
 TIMPANE-Lillian G. 73. Died May 2, in San Francisco, CA. Born in New York, she graduated with a nursing degree from the Jersey City Medical Center and was a nurse for more than fifty years. She is survived by two sisters, a brother, nine children and ten grandchildren.       
 GARCIA-Maria. Age 90. On May 1, 1999. She and her husband owned and operated El Charro Restaurant in Greenwich Village, N.Y. from 1948 until their retirement in 1967. She is survived by her husband, Menendo, son Tony, daughter Odulia Jacott, grandson Carlos Jacott, sister Loretta Trevino an
 MILLER-Gregg, 41. Of New York City, on April 30. Beloved daughter of Cindy Miller and of her late father, John Miller; loving sister of John J. Miller Jr. A memorial service will be held at Holy Cross Church, 329 West 42nd Street, Thursday, May 6, at 6 P.M. We ask that friends of the family
 Mae Bertha Carter, who defied gunfire and the loss of employment to send her children to previously all-white public schools in Mississippi, eventually winning a legal battle that confirmed their right to be there, died on April 28 at her home in Drew, Miss. She was 76. The cause wa
 BRUSH-Ellen Sparry. The Society of Woman Geographers express their deep sorrow at the untimely death of our inspiring, beloved member, and former Chair, anthropologist Dr. Ellen Brush. Our thoughts are with her family.       
 MOULTON-Ruth, M.D. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society note with profound grief the death of a woman whose abundant and eloquent life set the standard for generations of professionals. Resolute in her passion for her profession and for this Institute, Ruth Moulton
 REINIS-Lili H. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of Lili H. Reinis, beloved mother of longtime board member, former treasurer and Louis Marshall Award recipient, Stephen M. Axinn. Mrs. Reinis finished first in her class at NYU Law School, established a thr
 SHESLOW-Nettie. At age 93. Of Miami Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Julius Sheslow, loving sister of the late Philip Nadel, devoted mother of Seena Cowan and Everett Sheslow. Adoring grandmother of Stacey Kaplan, Jeffrey Cowan, Bruce Cowan, Faith Wheeler & Stephen Sheslow, revered 
 DeFLORIO-Jeann. A service in her memory at Convent of the Sacred Heart, 1 East 91st St., NYC, on Tuesday, May 11th, at 6:30 PM. Donations can be made to the Creative Arts Scholarship Fund in her name.       
 BIRNBAUM-Mildred. 84. Of Boca Raton, FL, died Wednesday, May 5 at the Boca Raton Community Hospital. Born in New York City to Phillip & Beatrice Behrman. Mrs. Birnbaum wintered in Boca Raton from New York and Connecticut before permanently moving here 12 years ago. Mrs. Birnbaum is the daug
 BONOFF-Celia Haubenstock, of New York City and Hillsdale, NY. Widow of Morris. Mother of Edith Leah Birnbaum and Barbara Gettinger, mother-in-law of Leonard Birnbaum and Stephen Gettinger. Grandmother of Richard, Jane and Peter Birnbaum and Andrew, Matthew and Thomas Gettinger, and twelve g
 BRUSH-Ellen Sparry. The Board and Program Committee of the American Scandinavian Society notes with great sadness the death of Dr. Ellen S. Brush, a devoted and beloved member. Her dedicated and generous support to the entire Scandianvian community will be great missed. Our sincere condolen
 MANCUSO-Harriet Stein. Of New York City. Beloved wife of Robert, devoted mother of Rebecca, Miranda and Paul; daughter of Bernice and Bernard and sister of Frank, died on Wednesday, May 5, 1999 at age 48. The love of her family helped strenghten her during an almost four year struggle with 
 ROBERTS-Mary Lee. Mary Lee Kilthau Roberts, 83, of Sanibel Island, Florida and part time resident of Cape Porpoise, Maine died Monday, May 3 at the Hilton Head Medical Center and Clinics, Hilton Head Island, SC. She was born in Lawrenceburg, IN, daughter of Raymond and Lucile Kilthau and at
 WEINSTEIN-Miriam C. Passed away on May 6, 1999 in Gaitherburg, Md. Devoted wife of David S. Weinstein, who pre-deceased her. Loving mother of Samuel (Sandy) and Marilyn, grandmother of Lisa, Jeffrey and Amy. We think of you and love you. Donations may be made to UJA-Federation.       
 ZEISEL-WILLIAMS-Ilse, 89. Died on May 6, from emphysema in a nursing home in a suburb of Trenton, NJ, where she lived with her husband, Frederick W. Williams. Ilse was born in Austria, educated at the University of Vienna and the Sorbonne, collaborated in pioneering sociological research wi
 BARLOW-Tony. We extend hearfelt condolences to our colleague Priscilla Winn Barlow on the passing of her husband Tony Barlow. The Interschool Heads       
 BONOFF-Celia Haubenstock, of New York City and Hillsdale, NY. Widow of Morris. Mother of Edith Leah Birnbaum and Barbara Gettinger, mother-in-law of Leonard Birnbaum and Stephen Gettinger. Grandmother of Richard, Jane and Peter Birnbaum and Andrew, Matthew and Thomas Gettinger, and twelve g
 BRUSH-Ellen Sparry. The Board and Program Committee of the American Scandinavian Society notes with great sadness the death of Dr. Ellen S. Brush, a devoted and beloved member. Her dedicated and generous support to the entire Scandinavian community will be greatly missed. Our sincere condol
 CIMBRECK-Doris Bade, 85. of Greenville, SC, widow of John Cimbreck, died Wednesday, May 5, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, NY, daughter of the late John Henry and Henrietta Wehmann Bade, she was a graduate of Katherine Gibbs School in New York City. Before her retirement, she was secretary manager 
 FOX-Trudy. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its friend Trudy Fox, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her family. Funeral services to be held at Riverside Chapel in Manhattan at 9:30AM Sunday morning. Rabbi Stanley Platek Norman Doctor, President       
 HAMBURGER-Phyllis Lambert. Phyllis passed away on Friday, May 7. She will be remembered with love by her daughters Amy and Hope and their husbands, her grandchildren, Abbye, T.J. and Evan, her brother Abbott and by her devoted caretaker Jennifer. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made
 HARPER-Jean McKeown, of Briarcliff Manor, NY. Born July 7, 1940. Died May 7, 1999. A sharp mind, warm heart and deep strength for all she loved. Survived by three children, Beth, Lawton and Jennifer, and granddaughter, Katelyn Elizabeth. Visitation Saturday 2-4PM and 7-9PM at the Waterbury 
 KANTOR-Isabel L. On May 7, 1999, at 89 years of age, after a brief illness. Wife of the late Samuel T.; survived by daughter Elizabeth and granddaughter Sarah of San Francisco. Deeply interested in the arts and extremely active on behalf of such groups as Recording for The Blind, and the Wo
 MANCUSO-Harriet Stein. Her friends mourn the passing of Harriet Stein Mancuso. Harriet was a kind and intelligent lady, and we will miss her. Our thoughts and prayers are with Robert, Rebecca, Miranda, and Paul. Stephen Kelly       
 PFEIFFER-Martha Goldhammer nee Addis, formerly of the Bronx, New York, died on May 5, 1999. Born on September 25, 1908. Daughter of Henrietta nee Weinberg and Percy Addis, widow of Rubin Pfeiffer, predeceased by her first husband, Isidore Goldhammer, and her son, Dr. Robert Goldhammer. Surv
 TEWI - SCHLACHET - Thea. Be loved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Peter. Loving grandmother of David, Daniel, Lisa and Joshua. She will also be mourned by nephews, nieces, cousins and numerous dear friends and colleagues. Services will be held at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memoria
 Marjorie Lederer Lee, a novelist and poet, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her son John said. Ms. Lee drew on her experiences as a young mother of five in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
 BATES-Patricia Alexandra. Died Wednesday, May 5 in her home in Deerfield Beach, Florida. Raised in Ardsley - on - the - Hudson, New York. Graduate of the Masters School. Devoted wife and mother and volunteer for Abbot House. She is survived by her three children, John Field Bates, Patricia 
 BONOFF-Celia Haubenstock, of New York City and Hillsdale, NY. Widow of Morris. Mother of Edith Leah Birnbaum and Barbara Gettinger, mother-in-law of Leonard Birnbaum and Stephen Gettinger. Grandmother of Richard, Jane and Peter Birnbaum and Andrew, Matthew and Thomas Gettinger, and twelve g
 DANIELS-Nettie (Gans). Age 105. Passed away peacefully on May 7, 1999. She was the widow of the late Jack Daniels, mother of Alvin S. Lane, grandmother of Mary-Jo Lane Harris and Judith Lane Mattson, great-grandmother of Ian and Roger Mattson, sister of Myriam Gans. Service Monday, May 10, 
 HAMBURGER-Phyllis Lambert. Phyllis passed away on Friday, May 7. She will be remembered with love by her daughters Amy Fazio and Hope Simkowitz and their husbands, her grandchildren, Abbye, T.J. and Evan, her brother Abbott and by her devoted caretaker Jennifer. Contributions may be made to
 HAMILTON-Elizabeth W. On May 1, 1999. Beloved mother of Lysette Hamilton & William E. Hamilton, grandmother of Kathryn, Lisabeth Anne, Gerald, and Alexandra. Great-grandmother of Gerald, Lindsay, and Song. Wife of the late Harold B. Hamilton, sister of Margaret Dreyer. Contributions in her 
 HARPER-Jean McKeown, of Briarcliff Manor, NY. Born July 7, 1940. Died May 7, 1999. A sharp mind, warm heart and deep strength for all she loved. Survived by three children, Beth, Lawton and Jennifer, and granddaughter, Katelyn Elizabeth. Visitation Saturday 2-4PM and 7-9PM at the Waterbury 
 HASSE-Gladys D. Loved friend and inspiring teacher, retired professor of English at Brooklyn College (CUNY) died in her 90th year at home in Newport, RI. A service in her memory will be held on Wednesday, May 12, at 2 PM, in Emmanuel Church, Spring and Dearborn Streets, Newport.       
 KANTOR-Isabel L. On May 7, 1999, at 89 years of age, after a brief illness. Wife of the late Samuel T.; survived by daughter Elizabeth and granddaughter Sarah of San Francisco. Deeply interested in the arts and extremely active on behalf of such groups as Recording for The Blind, and the Wo
 KOPF-Ruth. Peacefully. Gorgeous, sweet, lively and loving darling. She will be greatly missed by many.       
 MIDDLETON-Anita Arden. Died May 3 after a lengthy illness. Married to the late stage & screen actor Guy Middleton. Mrs. Middleton was a long time London resident and was a native New Yorker. She will be buried with her husband in England. Mrs. Middleton, an international actress whose credi
 POWELL-Melinda. On May 5. Melinda and her beloved husband, Graham of Carmel, CA and formerly Stamford, CT were moving back to Rowayton, CT. She was taken ill while staying with her dear friend, Lois Peerce in New York City. Melinda, age 46, died unexpectedly from complications following sur
 SCHLAGEL - Helen. Devoted mother and grandmother, wonderful professional woman, died on May 7, 1999, with her daughters Amy and Laurie and son-in-law Joe at her side. Shiva at 13417 Briar Path Lane, Silver Spring, MD. Contributions to Jewish Social Services Hospice, Rockville, MD.       
 WEINSTEIN-Constance G. Beloved wife of the late Arnold. Cherished mother of Susan Schuyler and Tom Mullen and Steven and Ellen Weinstein. Doting grandmother of Jed, Josh and Lauren. Dear sister of Lucille Porter, David Gottlieb and the late Solon Gottlieb. Her proud and independent spirit, 
 ZANDER-Elaine. Died on May 5, at age 73. Loving wife of Murray of 52 years. Devoted mother of Barry (her Easter baby). Survived by sisters-in-law, Lily, Sarah, Rae and Mary; brothers-in-law, Joseph and Elliot. Predeceased by a son, Jeffrey.       
 REEVES-Minna. Her beauty, charm, talent, and filial devotion are remembered this Mother's Day and everyday with love and gratitude.       
 SIMON-Ann R. Gone three years. We miss being with her, especially when we think back and remember all the happy, wonderful times that so many of us spent together. Forever, Mother and Ellen       
 Dr. Ellen Sparry Brush, an anthropologist and expert in the archeology of western coastal Guerrero state in Mexico, died May 1 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 65 and also lived on Shelter Island, N.Y. The cause was a lung disorder, her family said. D
 BADER-Julia (nee Albert). On Thursday, May 6, 1999. Of Bronx, NY. Adored daughter of the late David Albert and the late Anna (nee Kramer). Dear sister of Lucille Sand and sister-in-law of Lou Sand. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Osheroff and the late Louis Bader. Devoted mother of Raphael 
 BROOKS-Aurelia L. Age 79. Of NYC. Died Saturday, May 8. Burial service at Saint Peter's Church, 346 West 20th Street on Wednesday, May 12th at 12 noon. She is survived by brother, Victor Markiewicz; daughters, Susan Kanellakis and Alison Bell; and two grandchildren, Elizabeth and Duncan. In
 COOKE-Henrietta (nee Fellig). On May 8, 1999. A smart, complicated, wonderful person who lived life to the fullest. Will always be remembered by her children, Richard and Elizabeth, and their spouses Debbie and John, as well as the many young people she helped as a placement counselor. Prec
 DANIELS-Nettie (Gans). Age 105. Passed away peacefully on May 7, 1999. She was the widow of the late Jack Daniels, mother of Alvin S. Lane, grandmother of Mary-Jo Lane Harris and Judith Lane Mattson, great-grandmother of Ian and Roger Mattson, sister of Myriam Gans. Service Monday, May 10, 
 GOLDBERG - TROTTA - Wendy Iris. On May 7, 1999. 50 years old. Beloved wife to Nicholas. Devoted sister of Rosalind and Robert Danor. A prominent female business entrepreneur, she owned American Data Mart, a securities firm handling McGraw Hill, American Express and hundreds of other firms. 
 LEVY-Lillian G., 94. Of Bethel, CT. Widow of Bertram R. Levy. Died Saturday, May 8, 1999. Born February 10, 1905. Daughter of the late Anna and the late Maurice Goodman. Graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism, she was a reporter for the Brooklyn Eagle, author of magazines, stories an
 RICHTER-Katherine S. On May 8, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Survived by her son, Albert (Sheila) and her daughter, Bonnie (Barry). Butterflies are free to fly, so fly away. Services 9:45 AM, Tuesday, at Gutterman's Inc, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, NY.       
 STERN-Ruth S., 85. Of Woodmere, NY. Devoted wife of Sidney for 59 years. Loving mother to Alan, Larry, and Lenny & daughters-in-law Maxine and Babs. Proud grandmother of Becky, Sam, Jessie, Jake and Max. Loyal and affectionate friend. May her memory be for a blessing.       
 WAHLERS-Sheila. The Board of Directors of the Knickerbocker Greys deeply mourn the loss of our past president and board member of over twenty years. Our condolences to her family.       
 WEINSTEIN-Constance G. Beloved wife of the late Arnold. Cherished mother of Susan Schuyler and Tom Mullen and Steven and Ellen Weinstein. Doting grandmother of Jed, Josh and Lauren. Dear sister of Lucille Porter, David Gottlieb and the late Solon Gottlieb. Her proud and independent spirit, 
 GINSBERG-Belle. On May 9 at the age of 88. Devoted wife of the late Harry Ginsberg, treasured by sons Jack and Joseph, daughters-in-law Louise and Micki, grandsons, Andrew and Peter, and many nieces, nephews and friends. She will be sadly missed. Service today at 11:30 AM at, ''Parkside'' M
 GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Irwin Grundman and mother of Dr. Jayne G. Beker, Board member of our Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology. Dr. Jayne and Harvey Beker, YU Guardians, endo
 KADISH-Henrietta. Died in her sleep at her home in Metuchen, NJ, on Monday, May 10, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, she lived in Millburn, NJ, and New Brunswick, NJ, before moving to Metuchen 32 years ago. She was the widow of Irving J. Kadish, a land developer and builder. She was a bookkeeper, a 
 KRONMAN-Carol J., Esq.. Of NYC, NY, on May 8, 1999. Mother of Audrey Boughton and Heather Lipkind. Daughter of Robert and Helen Kronman. Sister of Dr. Barry Kronman. A memorial service will be held on Friday, May 14, at 9:30AM in the Rockefeller Chapel of Hope and Remembrance at the Health 
 WEINSTEIN-Constance G. Beloved wife of the late Arnold. Cherished mother of Susan Schuyler and Tom Mullen and Steven and Ellen Weinstein. Doting grandmother of Jed, Josh and Lauren. Dear sister of Lucille Porter, David Gottlieb & the late Solon Gottlieb. Her proud & independent spirit, inte
 KRAUSER-Mary Kay Edwards. Of Greenwich Ct. On May 11, 1999. She was the Senior Vice President, Merchandising and Design, for Sara Lee Foundations. Mary Kay was a cherished wife and a loving mother. She is survived by her husband, Robert S. Krauser, a son, Robert Edwards Krauser, and a daugh
 KRONMAN-Carol J., Esq. The Officers, Board of Directors and members of Professional Women in Construction (PWC) mourn the untimely passing of its dear friend, colleague and Board member. Her generosity and dedication to the advancement of business and professional women in the construction 
 LIPPMAN-Lois H. (nee Higginbotham). The New York Republican County Committee mourns the passing of a great lady and dear friend on May 8. Our sincerest condolences to her husband, Romeyne, and son, Marc. Memorial services to be announced at a later date. Senator Roy M. Goodman, Chmn. New Yo
 MAGID-Helaine G. Beloved wife of Meyer Magid of Rye Brook, New York and Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Passed away on May 9th after a sudden illness. Prior to retirement, she was a stock broker at Kidder Peabody. She graduated Cum Laude from the University of Vermont and received a Master's Degr
 O'ROURKE-Patricia F. Died on May 8, 1999 at her home in Yonkers, N.Y. Formerly of the Bronx, she was the only child of the late James and Frances O'Rourke. A dedicated teacher, she was the retired Principal of Intermediate School 180 in the Bronx. Friends may call at the Hastings Funeral Ho
 ROSEN-Mattie. On May 11, 1999, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Rosen. Dear mother of Paul (Marilyn) & David (Marcia) Rosen. Adored grandmother of Warren, Raymond and Mark, and great-grandmother of Corey and Sydney. Graveside services Thursday, May 13th, 1PM, at Beth Olem C
 SALESKY-Lois (nee Gorson). On May 11th, 1999. Wife of David of Elkins Park, Pennsylvania. Mother of Susan Rudin and the late Harry Salesky. Grandmother of William, Inda, Joseph, Eve and Andrew. Also survived by ten great grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to services Thursday,
 SPELKE-Miriam L. Miriam Spelke, beloved wife, mother, friend and a longtime former resident of Stamford, CT., and widow of Norman Spelke passed away on May 9, 1999 from lymphoma at her home in Laguna Hills, CA. She was 86. She is survived by two children, Karen Sorensen of Kentfield, CA., a
 VERGOTTIS-Mary G. It is with deep sorrow that we announce the death of Mrs. Mary G. Vergottis on the 7th of May, 1999. The burial service will take place at the Greek Orthodox Church, Avenue Florimont, Lausanne, on Tuesday, 18th of May, at 15:15 hours. Her sisters, Mrs. Thecla C. Marinidis,
 WINOGRAD-Emma. It is with great sadness that the families of the Canavan Research Fund mourn the passing of one-year-old baby Emma who was born with Canavan disease. Our hearts and prayers are with Andrea and Robert, Emma's adoring parents and dedicated CRF board members, and Emma's big sis
 State Senator Wynona M. Lipman, who in 1971 became the first African-American woman to be elected to the New Jersey Senate, died Sunday at her home in Newark. She was 67. The cause was cancer, her office said. Senator Lipman, a Democrat who represented Newark, was the longes
 Catherine Brandel, one of the quiet forces behind the culinary tide called California cuisine, died on Tuesday night at her home in Berkeley, Calif.  She was 56. She had waged a long battle with a rare muscle cancer, said her brother, Michael Terry of Richland, Wash., who is her onl
 FRIEDMAN-Shayne (Sylvia). On May 12, 1999. Deeply loved wife and best friend of Harold, adored Mommy of Melanie (Marc Melloment) and Bonnie (the late Jay Slotkin). Cherished Grandma of Jon, David and Sharon. She loved life. Services at Star of David, 7701 Bailey Road, North Lauderdale, Flor
 GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, extend deepest condolences to Jayne Beker, her husband Harvey and the entire family on the passing of Jayne's beloved mother, Rhoda Grundman. May her inspiration enhance
 HAMMOND-Florence (Pierson), of Cambridge, MA, on May 11, age 90. Survived by her beloved husband, Mason Hammond; devoted daughters, Florence Phillips, Anstiss Krueck, Elizabeth Llewellyn; loving grandchildren, Victoria Drake, Valentine Snell, Mason Drake, Ascha Drake and Jonathan Phillips; 
 LANCHESTER-Elizabeth Ann, 82, formerly of New York City and London, England, on May 11, 1999. Wife of the late Pilot Officer Henry Robert Lanchester, who was killed in action in 1941. She is survived by a son, Robert Lanchester, of Princeton, NJ, a daughter Christine Deirdre Champagne, of L
 LEFF-I. Bernard. May 6, age 90+. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Sandra and her husband Michel Kanter. Donations to Stroke Connection, 800-553-6321.       
 LOGAN-Ruth Alberta. Age 79. Died in Honesdale, Pa. Ruth Logan, a Brooklyn NYC native spent her career as a Public Relations Specialist and Development Officer for numerous non-profit organizations in NYC. She is survived by her husband of 49 years Walter Logan. Ruth Logan graduated from New
 SALESKY-Lois. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy extend their sincere condolences to Susan Rudin and her family on the loss of her mother, Lois Salesky. Our thoughts and prayers are with you, your father, husband, children, & grandchildren at this sad time. May memories o
 Meg Greenfield, the editor of The Washington Post's editorial page, who brought a combination of sharp-eyed analysis and wry wit to bear on a generation of the nation's policy makers and politicians, died yesterday morning at her home in Washington. She was 68. She died of cancer, s
 CLURMAN-Shirley Potash., May 13th. After a long illness, at St. Rose's Home. Beloved wife of the late Richard, devoted mother of Michael, stepmother of Susan Emma and Carol. Contributions in her memory may be made to The Citizens Committee for New York City, 305 7th Ave., NY NY 10001.      
 LANDSMAN-Gert (Dunay). Age 93. A retired Florida licensed interior designer. Passed away on May 12, 1999. She was predeceased by her husband Paul. A loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Bette (Dr. Robert) Holzberg, a son Richard (Helen) Landsm
 LEVINE-Dorothy. Died on May 13, 1999 at 91 years of age. Mrs. Levine was a resident of Hallandale, FL. She is survived by her beloved husband Benjamin Levine, her sons Leonard and Herbert, her daughters-in-law Myrna and Linda and her grandchildren Amy, David and Michelle and her brother Ber
 ROSENFELD - Lulla. Beloved mother of Josie, adored and adoring grandmother of Netalia. Devoted aunt of Elizabeth. Cherished friend and mother in law of Jonathan. Prominent author of books on the Yiddish theater, translator of her grandfather Jacob Adler's memoirs. Service will be held on Fr
 SIMON-Sarah. 90. On May 10, 1999 at Seacrest Residential Village, Encinitas, CA. Survived by her 3 sons, Melvin (Linda) of La Jolla, CA, Neal (Nancy Boughey) of San Rafael, CA and Michael (Susan) of Long Beach, NY, and her 9 grandchildren, Joshua, David, Rachael, Tali, Jacob, Daniel, Julie,
 SPOHN-Roberta R.. On May 13, 1999, of New York City. Beloved wife of Santo J. Pafumi. She was cherished and loved deeply by her daughters, Jessica and Leine. Mother-in-law to Scott and David. Adoring grandmother to Alexandra, Julia, Leopold and Oliver. Services Sunday 10:45AM at ''The River
 VALAIRE-Rosemary. Age 68. Born on June 11, 1930 in Crawley, Sussex, England. Died May 7, 1999 in her home in Los Angeles, CA. Member of the Royal Ballet from 1946 to 1954. Co-director of the Westside School of Ballet in Los Angeles from 1966 to 1999. Donations in her memory may be sent to t
 Shirley Potash Clurman, a retired magazine editor and television producer, died yesterday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Clurman, a native of Los Angeles, began her career in the publi
 Bobbe Brox, the last surviving member of the vocal trio who called themselves the Brox Sisters and who appeared on stage and in films, died  on May 2 in Glens Falls, N.Y. She was 98. Miss Brox, whose original name was Josephine Brock, and her sisters were American-born but were  bro
 NELSON-Betty. Beloved wife of her late husband Nathan. Survived by her children Gloria (Arthur), Milton (Betty Rose), and Brenda (Dennis). Also survived by two grandchildren, Mirian and Daniel, and her great-grandson Natan. We will miss her, but she will live in our hearts forever.       
 SARGENT-Claudia E. Of South Londonderry, Vermont, formerly of Cambridge, Massachusetts died on May 12, 1999 at home after a long illness. She is survived by her husband Paul Fienberg; her son Benjamin; her sisters Andrea Praeger, Alexandra Praeger, Manya Praeger and Julia Blaut; & her stepc
 SPOHN-Roberta R. On May 13, 1999, of New York City. Beloved wife of Santo J. Pafumi. She was cherished and loved deeply by her daughters, Jessica and Leine. Mother-in-law to Scott and David. Stepmother to Nancy. Adoring grandmother to Alexandra, Julia, Leopold and Oliver. Services Sunday 10
 DANIEL-Elsa Musliner. May 15, 1997. Remembered by her family and friends for her caring and good works.       
 DICKMAN-Frances. May 11, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Milton, loving mother and mother-in-law of Stephen & Sharon Dickman of Syosset, NY and Lucy & Ronald Wetzel of Knoxville, TN devoted grandmother of Jocelyn Dickman and Paul and Nathan Wetzel. She spent a lifetime devoted to public serv
 KAMIL-Jenna. It is with great sadness that we mourn the tragic loss of the daughter of our dear friends, Linda and Gideon. Our hearts and prayers are with them and their family. Her spirit will live on in all of us. Honey and Mike Ellis Lisa and Mark Ellis Sidney Gluck and Janet Kantor     
 LEVAVY-Berenice B. On May 14, 1999. For over 63 years she and her husband Zvi, who survives her, set standards of marital harmony and compatability. Devoted sister of the late Gladys Bardin, beloved mother of Bardin (and Sue-Ellen), adoring grandmother of Raphael and Sara Beth. She was a co
 Rosemary Valaire, a ballet teacher and a director of the Westside Ballet of Santa Monica, Calif., and a former dancer with the Royal Ballet of England, died on May 7 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 68. The cause was a brain tumor, said Jim Brunet, director of public relations at
 Ruth Moulton Gilbert, a practicing psychoanalyst in Manhattan for over 40 years, died on April 30 at her home in Clinton Corners, N.Y. She was 83. The cause was complications from cancer, her family said. Dr. Moulton, who was known professionally by her maiden name, was a su
 Madelaine Chambers, a lyric soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 30 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. She was 72 and lived in Allentown, N.J. The cause was leukemia, said Leyna Gabriele
 DAVIS-Susan. Of Muttontown, NY, died on May 16, 1999. Wife of Gary. Daughter of Edith Sinovsky. Mother and mother-in-law of Amy and Brandt Josephson, Jericho, NY, Elisa and Robert Hecht, NY, NY. Devoted grandmother of Danielle and Jenna. Funeral services at North Shore Synagogue, Syosset, N
 EVERETT-Lee Kaye. 68, of New York City, NY, on May 14, 1999. Loving mother of Karen Millet of Hilton Head, SC, and Anthony Everett of Wayland, MA. She is also survived by her five grandchildren. Ms. Everett had been a fashion executive at Vanity Fair Mills, Hoechst Fibers, Bonwit Teller, an
 FENTON-Daisy. On May 13, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother. Loving sister. Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Services were held Sunday, May 16th, 1999. Interment in Beth Moses Cemetery. All contributions should be made in her memory to Hadassah.       
 LEVAVY-Berenice B. On May 14, 1999. For over 63 years she and her husband Zvi, who survives her, set standards of marital harmony and compatability. Devoted sister of the late Gladys Bardin, beloved mother of Bardin (and Sue-Ellen), adoring grandmother of Raphael and Sara Beth. She was a co
 McSHERRY-Nancy (nee Ryan). Loving wife of Dr. Charles K. Beloved mother of Maureen. Grandmother of her special angel, Casey. Dear sister of Patricia Kruger Struck. Devoted friend to many. She is survived by 19 nieces and nephews and 29 grandnieces and nephews, and godmother to five boys. Sh
 NUSSBAUM-Cherie. Of New Rochelle. Died peacefully on May 15 with her family by her side. She was the blessed wife of Morton. Cherished mother of Eric and his wife, Fredda. Loving sister of Renee and Sidney Reiff. Adored grandmother of Daniel and Sarah. Devoted aunt of Isabel, Kenneth, and R
 ORNSTON-Mimi. Of New York City and Sarasota, FL, age 70, of complications during heart surgery. We have lost a beautiful person. Irreplaceable. Beloved wife and best friend of Sidge; deeply loved Mom of Richard, Wendy, Lynn, Mary and Mick; devoted step-mom of Patricia, Marjorie, Deedee and 
 WHITE-Rowenna L. Wight. May 17th, 1980. Interment on her 19th birthday. The Cathedral of St. John the Divine. Private. Called back September 2nd, 1998, Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia. ''Loud from its rocky caverns, the deep-voiced neighboring ocean Speaks, and in accents disconsolate answers the
 BEANE-Sarah. Age 86. Of Bronx, N.Y. Died May 17, 1999. Born in Norwich, CT on October 3, 1912. She was a daughter of the late Phillip and Anne Lidofsky. She was pre-deceased by her husband Irving Beane and her sister Celia Greenberg. She is survived by her sister Ida Lacy, her brother Leon 
 DAVIS-Susan. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their member, Susan Davis, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Gary, and their family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President DAVIS-Susan. 
 GOODBREAD - Sophie Romer. Born on June 13, 1909 in New York City, died on May 5, 1999. Wife of David Goodbread, mother of Julia Motylinski, and Joseph Goodbread, grandmother of Miriam Roiter. She was an example and a teacher to us all.       
 JEAN-Dr. Priscilla. We will miss the wit, clarity of thought and resourcefulness of our beloved colleague, Dr. Priscilla Jean. Her legacy is the success of the many learning disabled students she taught. Jeannette Jansky, Katherine Hurd, Sharon Drucker and Jeane Gazdag       
 LANE-Miriam (Mitzi). President and Founding Board Member. Tirelessly devoted to the Sirovich Senior Center for 65 years. As a young woman, she personally gave her time to help poor immigrants on the Lower East Side with food and money through the Rose Sirovich Relief Society. A leader and a
 LANE-Miriam Colm (nee Mendoza). On May 16, 1999. Beloved aunt of Judith Mendoza, Zoe Brown, Betty Viereck. Dear stepmother to Robert and Susan Lane, Harriet Lane, Arthur and DeDee Lane, Richard and Susan Lane. Cherished sister-in-law of Lynn Pressman Raymond. Grandmother and great grandmoth
 LOEWENSTEIN-Regina. Passed away May 16th. Survived by beloved sister Martha, special surrogate daughter Patricia Arrington and devoted longtime companions Clara Randolph and Veronica Philbert. Predeceased by her loving and caring parents Frieda and Solomon Loewenstein and adored sister Norm
 PRYSTOWSKY-Florence. Died May 17, 1999 at age 90 after a heroic battle against cancer. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Seymour (Cochava) and Steven (Gail). Loving grandmother of Elan (Galila), Donna, Aliza and Shana. Burial in Israel; Shiva in U.S. Dedicated her life to te
 TAGER-Frieda. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved Past Chairwoman of our National Memorial Committee and long time member of our National Board. A caring, compassionate, sensitive and true Woman of Valor, Frieda Tager lived a life devoted to Torah, the State of Israel, and 
 Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England. She was 48. The cause was breast cancer, according to her brother, Lindsey. Ms. Gruson, who lived in Tiverton, was an assi
 AMKRAUT-Sarah. Beloved sister, grandmother, great-grandmother and friend. Died on Monday evening at the age of 85 in Brooklyn. She had a heart attack while recuperating from back surgery. Mrs. Amkraut, widow and life long companion of the late Hyman Amkraut, will be sorely missed by all who
 COLES-Joan Cullen. Died peacefully on May 18, 1999 at her home on Shelter Island, NY, after a courageous battle with Parkinson's Disease. Deeply loved wife of Michael Coles; devoted mother of Caroline Scudder, Alison Aldredge, Isobel Coleman, Richard Coles, and Douglas Coles; beloved grandm
 GANNETT-Sarah Derby, 78. Died at home in Brattleboro, Vermont on Monday after a long illness. A granddaughter of President Theodore Roosevelt born in Oyster Bay. Survived by her husband, Robert T. Gannett; her daughter, Alden G. Taylor of Mequon, Wisconsin and William of New York City and n
 KLEINBERG-Cecile. Died peacefully on May 18, 1999 in her 93rd year. Loving sister of Lucie Friedman, Armand Kleinberg & sisterin-law of Barbara Kleinberg. Cherished aunt of Joan Anderman, Jane Lebowitz, Terry Kleinberg & many great nieces and nephews. Services on Thursday, May 20, 10:15 AM 
 LOEWENSTEIN-Regina. Passed away May 16th. Survived by beloved sister Martha, special surrogate daughter Patricia Arrington and devoted longtime companions Clara Randolph and Veronica Philbert. Predeceased by her loving and caring parents Frieda and Solomon Loewenstein and adored sister Norm
 ROFMAN-Clara. Age 93, May 18, 1999. Wife of the late Joseph Rofman, devoted mother of Ethan Samuel Rofman and Irwin Israel Rofman, cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Robert, Susan, Amy and Julie, great-grandmother of Rachel, William, Sarah and Edward. Services at the Riverside 21 West Broad
 RUBINO-Elisabeth J. On May 16, 1999. Beloved sister of Therese Belsito. Loving aunt of Jeanne Wilson, Teresa-Gail Clayton, Victoria Elisabeth Prince and Christine Poutot. Her career spanned many years in the metropolitan area with notable people in literature, theatre and architecture. Fune
 TACCHELLI-Mary J. Of 440 E. 62 Street, passed away Sunday, May 16, 1999. She is survived by her special friend, Betty Nichols, with whom she resided, and several other relatives in upstate NY.       
 TAGER-Frieda. Yeshiva University Women's Organization mourns the passing of its past National Vice President, Frieda Tager, who played a major role as Chair of the YUWO Opera Benefit and was an important and dedicated leader for more than fifty years. Condolences are extended to her childre
 YARSHATER-Latifeh (nee Alvieh). 73. On May 17, 1999 after a courageous battle against cancer. Survived by her husband, Ehsan, and her sisters Vadieh Stanger, Monir Arjomand, Evelyn Alvieh, their families, and many friends. She served as cultural advisor to the USIS in Tehran (1951-61), was 
 Ida Klaus, a labor law pioneer who became a high-ranking New York City official in the 1950's and who wrote the law that gave city employees the right to bargain collectively, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Ms. Klaus was a lifelong labor advocate whose sympathy
 AGRANOFF-Joan. Kind friend, artist, sculptress, her wonderment of life's gifts now stilled forever. She will be greatly missed. Friends and neighbors of E. 9th St.       
 BENSTOCK-Jane, age 92, died peacefully at her home in Brightwaters, NY on May 19, 1999. Wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Mochelle Stettner of Allentown, PA and Gerald Benstock of Belleair Beach, FL. Cherished grandmother of 8 and great-grandmother of 15. Memorial contributions to t
 COLES-Joan C. The members of the Nature Conservancy's Mashomack Preserve Board of Trustees record our deep sorrow at her passing and express sympathy to her husband, children and grandchildren. We are forever grateful to her as a great benefactor, organizer and friend of Mashomack, who serv
 GAMBLE - Ethel Ann (nee O'Brien). Born January 29, 1911 in the Bronx, New York and departed peacefully on May 19, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Frank G. Dear mother of Kenneth G. of New Rochelle, N.Y., Thomas J. of Biddeford, Me, Mary Tobin of Short Hills, N.J., Theresa Basralian of Millbu
 QUASH-Rhoda. The Board of Governors, Administration and the entire Sound Shore Medical Center family deeply mourn the passing of Rhoda Quash. As the Medical Center's Director of Government Affairs, Ms. Quash was an effective and tireless advocate for providing the highest quality patient ca
 RUBINO-Elisabeth J. On May 16, 1999. Beloved sister of Therese Belsito. Loving aunt of Jeanne Wilson, Teresa-Gail Clayton, Victoria Elisabeth Prince and Christine Poutot. Her career spanned many years in the metropolitan area with notable people in literature, theatre and architecture. Fune
 ZWEIGMAN-Anne (nee Grauman). Of West Palm Beach, Fla. On May 14, 1999. The Grauman, Steckler and Tannenbaum families mourn the loss of their dear sister, aunt, great-aunt and greatgreat aunt. She will be lovingly remembered and sadly missed.       
 Betty Robinson Schwartz, who in 1928 as a 16-year-old high school junior became the first woman to win an Olympic gold medal in track and field, died Tuesday in Colorado. She was 87. Her son, Richard Schwartz Jr. of Denver, told The Chicago Tribune she had suffered from cancer and A
 ELKINS-Margaret Wiess. Loving wife, mother, grandmother and friend died on May 19, 1999. Born October 26, 1922 in Houston, TX to Olga Keith and Harry Carothers Wiess. She attended Kinkaid School, The Ethel Walker School and Pine Manor College. Due to her interest in all of the citizens of H
 FEGAN - Helen Alvord (nee Brown). Daughter of George A. Brown and Charlotte (nee Pitts). Predeceased by her dearest brother Cyril Brown, beloved sister Ethel Mae Fegan (Brown) and devoted husband Matthew W. Fegan. Initially a librarian in the Brooklyn Public Library, she was for many years 
 RICH-Mildred B., 83. On May 11, 1999. She is survived by her daughter Alice, son Harvey, granddaughter Jessica, cousins Mickey Spira and Dorothy Sekeley, nieces Tara, Avra, Mavra, Amy, and Hali, nephews Ira and Andy, and many grand-nieces and nephews. Beth El Cemetery in N.J.       
 SKOLNICK-Gloria. The staff of Rich Worldwide Travel mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague. Condolences to her entire family. Ina Rich, President       
 RUSCIO-Jane Young. Of West Lebanon, NY, on May 20, 1999, at age 66. She is survived by her husband Nicholas P. Ruscio, children Ian, Jessica and Ross Lanier, grandchildren Ian and Jorie Lanier, father Theodore John Young, and brother George W. Young. She will live always in our hearts.     
 ASHMAN-Eleanor (nee Wyle). Beloved wife of the late Dr. Hyman Ashman, beloved cousin, dear friend and patient. Mrs. Ashman attended the University of Rochester in the 1930's. She served as Executive Director of The Jewish Welfare Society. She then headed the Resettlement Program for Europea
 FISHMAN-Bunny (Bernice). We loved our friend. She went away from us. There's nothing more to say. The poem ends. We loved our friend. Gerry and Paul Melinger       
 GRANGER-Jean S.. Age 70. Died in her sleep at Carolina Meadows, Chapel Hill, NC, on May 19, 1999. She is survived by her husband Richard A. Granger and daughters Catherine and Stacy. She is Meema to eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.       
 KLAUS-Ida. Region II of the National Academy of Arbitrators note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Ida Klaus. A pioneer of her profession, she was a brilliant attorney, a respected arbitrator, and a valued friend. We shall miss her very much. John E. Sands, Chair Mattye M.
 KLEIN-Priscilla Chapman. Born October 28, 1926, in Connersville, IN, died May 21, 1999, after a long illness at the White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. Mrs. Klein, a graduate of Hanover College in Hanover, IN, was a member of the Junior League of Washington and New York, and a member
 LIFSCHITZ-Eva. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved mother of Esther Landsman, our most devoted Associate Chairwoman of the AMIT National Board. A true Woman of Valor, Eva Lifschitz was a lifetime benefactor of our AMIT children and lived a life devoted to Torah, Israel, fa
 MARX-Claire. 89. Died at home early Mother's Day morning. Strong, courageous, devoted happily and entirely to her family, she now joins Stanley in peace and love, and will be remembered and admired by her daughter Pat forever. A service was held.       
 POLSTEIN-Dorothy (Barst). Suddenly, on May 21. Survived by her beloved husband of 56 years, Joseph; her children, Ernest and Meri; her daughter-in-law Kate Sharp, and son-in-law John Grumbacher; and the lights of her life, her grandchildren Laura Polstein, Stephanie Grumbacher, and Samuel P
 POTTER-Zaidee Tillinghast., 96. Of Venice, Florida died on May 16th, 1999 at Bon Secours-Venice Hospital. Born on August 10, 1902 in Gloucester, MA to Joseph John and Zaidee (Hedges) Tillinghast, Mrs. Potter graduated from the Winsor School in Boston. A recent resident of Venice, she had li
 SKOLNICK-Gloria. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Gloria Skolnick and extend to her bereaved husband Harvey, and the members of her family, our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, S
 WIGOR-Ruth Taub. 89. Died peacefully on May 16th, 1999 in Newport Beach, CA. She was a graduate of Brooklyn Law School, past member of the National Board of Hadassah and ardent Zionist. She worked for Israel Bonds and practiced law in NYC. Surviving are her daughter, Dr. Joyce Miller of Irv
 LIEF-Libbie 1908-1995 Remembered with love by her family.       
 HICKS-Ruth Ilsley. 91, died May 9, 1999, in Menno-Haven, Chambersburg, PA. Born May 12, 1907, in Jamaica, Long Island, NY. Daughter of the late Shirley N.C. and Minnie Clarke Hicks. Graduate of Vassar College and Johns Hopkins University. From 1933-34, she was Assistant Curator of Classical
 TURTELTAUB-Rebecca Shallit, the author, died Friday evening May 21, 1999, at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers, NY. She was 89 and had been recently living at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Born in Nome, Alaska, in 1909, she was the daughter of Charles and Bertha Shallit. Her fat
 ULLMAN-Marie Michaelson. On May 22, 1999, after a long illness. President of the Ullman Devices Corporation of Ridgefield, CT. Beloved wife of the late Robert Ullman. Survived by her sister, Dorothy Gordon; nieces, nephews and many friends. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue
 WALSH-Gloria Monterubio. Died May 20, 1999. Survived by her son James, daughter Victoria, her brother Fred, and sister Rose. She was a Veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps in World War II and a graduate of Barnard College. Gathering of friends 7-9 PM, service at 7:30, Thursday May 27, Volk Lebe
 ZUCKERMAN-Gertrude D. May 20th. Age 95. Widow of Dr. George Zuckerman, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, NYC. Survived by daughters Lorette Zirker and Nina Schindler. She will be truly missed by her six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.       
 DOHERTY-Matilda Ann (nee Mullen). On May 24th in her 89th year. Beloved mother of Ann & Dan DiPietro, Jim & Gerry Doherty, Joan Doherty & Bob Neuhoff & Eileen & Kevin Heneghan. Loving Nonny to Daniel, Justin, & Gillian DiPietro, Jimmy III & Shannon Doherty & Jeremy, Kim, Tara, Jessie, Luke,
 JOSEPH-Helen H. On May 22 at her home in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved sister of Gwendolyn Heyliager of Brooklyn, NY and Vivian J. Edwards of Raleigh, NC. She had just retired from The Associated Press where she had worked for over 35 years. She is also survived by a nephew, Seth C. Edwards of Broo
 KARP-Frances, M.D. The Board of Trustees and the medical staff of Long Beach Medical Center record, with profound sorrow, the passing of Dr. Frances Karp. From 1940 to 1993, she served her patients, her hospital and her community with compassion and great kindness. She brought an understand
 KEENAN-Marie T., 74. Died Saturday in White Plains surrounded by her family. Marie was an inspiration to her three daughters Terry Keenan Kass and Linda Erin Keenan of Manhattan, and Joellen Keenan Gardner of Albany. She worked full time running her own business and still found plenty of ti
 MARX-Virginia Wise. Born May 26, 1905 in St. Louis, MO, died May 23 at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. Beloved wife of Leonard. Sister of Muriel Ducibella, Jane Smith and Rudolph Wise, Jr. Loving mother of Leonard Marx Jr., Mary Lynn Bianco, and Jennifer Gruenberg. Mrs. Marx was 
 MONTGELAS-Barbara. The volunteers and staff of Guiding Eyes for the Blind mourn the passing of our dear friend and longtime supporter, Barbara Montgelas. Through her outstanding generosity, the lives of many blind and visually impaired individuals have been, and continue to be, forever enri
 RUBMAN-Hermine. Devoted to her family, active in the community, an inspiration to those around her. She is survived by her daughter Ruth Wood, son Lewis Rubman, and four grandchildren. Memorial service to be announced.       
 SHACKNAI-Selma. On May 24, 1999 after a long illness. Wife of Gideon Shacknai, mother of Jonah Shacknai and Adam Shacknai. Recently retired, she was an educator and therapist during her adult life. She was educated at the University of Pennsylvania, Brooklyn College, Sarah Lawrence College 
 SHANDALOW-May G. Formerly of NYC. Died suddenly on May 23, 1999 in Princeton, NJ., age 94. Cherished mother, grandmother, great grandmother, aunt, cousin, and friend. Mrs. Shandalow received her undergraduate degrees at Maxwell Training School for Teachers and Brooklyn College, and her M.A.
 STEINBERG-Sylvia. Bnai Zion, the fraternal Zionist organization, mourns the loss of Sylvia Steinberg, a longtime member and wife of Harry Steinberg, Founder and Chairman of ''Writers and Artists for Peace in the Middle East,'' with which we have had an ongoing relationship. She was an arden
 SUSSMAN-Lois Pasternak. Of Palm Beach, Florida and Lenox, Massachusetts died on May 24, 1999 in the comfort of her home. Mrs. Sussman was the childhood sweetheart and loving wife of Richard Sussman to whom she was married for 54 years. She was the beloved mother of Steven Sussman of Roslyn,
 ULLMAN-Marie Michaelson. On May 22, 1999, after a long illness. President of the Ullman Devices Corporation of Ridgefield, CT. Beloved wife of the late Robert Ullman. Survived by her sister, Dorothy Gordon; nieces, nephews and many friends. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue
 Vanessa Brown, who originated the role of the girl upstairs in the Broadway production of ''The Seven Year Itch,'' a role played in the film version by Marilyn Monroe, died on Friday at the Motion Picture Country Home in Los Angeles, Calif. She was 71. The cause was cancer, her son,
 Beverly Lewis, a vice president and senior editor at Bantam Books,  died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 51 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Lewis died on the way to a hospital after collapsing on a Manhattan street, her husband, Sandy Eames, said. The family is awaiting results of an au
 BANDES-Edna. On May 25, 1999. Beloved widow of Arthur. She is survived by son Barry. Funeral service will be held at Gutterman's 175 Long Beach Rd, Rockville Centre on Friday, May 28, 9:30AM.       
 GENTILE-Constance, 89. Beloved Mother, a beautiful and elegant lady. Survived by her devoted and loving son, daughters, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. We shall miss her greatly.       
 LIFSHITZ-Eva. The Board of Directors, faculty, staff and entire student body, of 2000, at Associated Beth Rivkah Schools-Lubavitch extend sincere condolences to our devoted friend and supporter, Mr. Hyman Lifshitz upon the recent passing of his wife, Eva. Her pride in her heritage and devot
 MARX-Virginia Wise. Born May 26, 1905 in St. Louis, MO, died May 23 at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. Beloved wife of Leonard. Sister of Muriel Ducibella, Jane Smith and Rudolph Wise, Jr. Loving mother of Leonard Marx Jr., the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn Bianco, and Jennifer Grue
 MELTON-Mary Ann of Tequesta, FL and Dorset, VT, formerly of Brightwaters, NY died on May 24, 1999 at the age of 76 in Jupiter, FL after a brief illness. Mrs. Melton was the devoted wife of Mr. Andrew J. Melton Jr. for 55 years, and was the daughter of the late Sanders and Marjorie Shanks. A
 RABINOWITZ-Clara. Trained first as a social worker and then as a psychologist, devoted much of her life to community service, including service at the local & national levels. She died in her home on May 23, 1999. She is survived by a sister, Zelda Meranze & a brother, Albert Rabinowitz, el
 SHAPIRO-Roslyn Elgart. On May 25, 1999 in her 94th year. Loving mother of Jane Millstein and Donald and Arlene Shapiro. Proud grandmother of Rona and David Shapiro Franklin, Claudia and Harry Falk, Emma Morgan, Elizabeth Millstein, and Edward Shapiro. Adoring great grandmother of Noa Shapir
 Ruth Gilbert, a retired editor at New York magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Ms. Gilbert was best known as the editor of her own page in New York magazine listing what she felt was stylish in the city at the mo
 BOS-Agnes C. (nee Mahoney). Of Miami Beach, FL on May 1, 1999 at her home of complications from cancer at 80 years of age. Former How-To Editor at Family Circle Magazine, Writer, Educator, Home Economist, Artist, and WWII naval veteran. Beloved wife of the late Willem A. Bos; loving mother 
 GERARD-Rose S. On May 26, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Raphael C. Gerard. Loving mother of Stephanie Ziltzer, Henry Gerard, Ruth Gerard. Adoring grandmother of Amy & Robert, Michael and Andrea, Robert and Vivian, Scott, Lisa and Scott, and seven wonderful, loving great grandchildren a
 MAYOR-Rose, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the medical staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague who served our institution for more than 20 years. Dr. Mayor was a dedicated physician who always showed sincere concern for her patients an
 MILLER-JONES-Marie T. (William), 92, formerly of New York and Cape Cod, died May 17 at the home of her daughter, Anna Marie (David) Dickerson, Atlanta, GA       
 SNIADO-Jean. On May 25th, of Garden City, New York, in her ninety-second year. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Avenue at 12th Street, Garden City, Friday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, at St. Joseph's Church, Garden City, on Saturday, at 9:45 AM. Interment, St. Charles
 WELCH-Mary M., 96. Died Tuesday, May 25, 1999, in Centerville, Ma. Beloved daughter, sister and aunt. She is survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Mary resided in NYC from 1935-1973, where she directed public relations for the Elizabeth Arden Company. She retired in 1973 to West Hyannisp
 LEVINE-Ada. Passed away 30 years ago on this date. Remembered with love and respect for her devotions to her husband, Leon, who predeceased her, to her children George and Claire, to their spouses, Shirley and the late Howard Silverman, and to her grandchildren, Shari (and husband Neil), Ed
 Alice Adams, widely admired for her deft, elegantly observed novels and short stories, died yesterday at her home in San Francisco. She was 72. She had been treated for heart problems earlier in the week and seemed to have died in her sleep, said her editor, Victoria Wilson.        
 Edith Lewin, who with her husband, Bernard, amassed the largest privately owned collection of Mexican modernist art and then gave it away, died on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 88. The Lewins, who settled in California after fleeing Berlin in 1933, started out a
 PASSERMAN-Miriam R. On May 26, 1999. In her 98th year, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of NYC and Chappaqua, NY. She was acknowledged to have been the oldest Alumna of the Columbia School of Journalism, Class of 1925. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell W. Daughter of the late Charles and Sarah Ro
 SCHMID-Flora T. Of the Village of Golf, Florida died on Thursday, May 27, 1999. Born on July 4th, 1912 in Chattanooga, Tennessee, she was predeceased by her late husband Carl J. Schmid. She is survived by her two daughters, Radiant Wolf and Elaine; her sister Arlene and by her three grandch
 THURNAUER-Maria. Of Teaneck, NJ. Died quietly in her sleep on May 27, in her 88th year. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Joan and Andrew. Grandmother of Rebecca and Jesse, Caitlin and Michael.       
 YALLOWITZ - Lillian. Beloved wife of our esteemed collegue, Paul. We extend heartfelt sympathies to her children, their spouses and her grandchildren. She was a woman of valor. Hoberman, Miller, Goldstein & Lesser       
 Shirley Katzander, a public relations consultant who specialized in promoting cultural and political figures, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. She had congestive heart failure, a friend, James A. Moore, said. For nearly 20 years, Mrs. Katzander ran her
 PASSERMAN-Miriam R. On May 26, 1999. In her 98th year, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of NYC and Chappaqua, NY. She was acknowledged to have been the oldest Alumna of the Columbia School of Journalism, Class of 1925. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell W. Daughter of the late Charles and Sarah Ro
 THURNAUER-Maria. The Board of Directors, staff and music school students of the Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Maria Thurnauer who dedicated her life to supporting music and the arts. Maria and her husband William endowed the JCC Thurnauer School of Music,
 Sara Holmes Boutelle, an architectural historian who rediscovered Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects to achieve major success, died on Wednesday at the Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. She was 90. Until Ms. Boutelle published ''Julia Morgan, Architect'' (1988),
 Kathleen Kellogg Meserve, an amateur horticulturist from Long Island who produced a series of hardy holly hybrids that have become standard in nurseries and gardens in the United States and Europe, died last Sunday at her home in Vero Beach, Fla. She was 93. Mrs. Meserve's interest 
 DAVIS-Minna Rose (nee Heyman). Died Saturday at her residence in Clearbrook. Mrs. Davis was born and lived in Jersey City until 1981. She was 84. Her husband, Horace G. Davis, died in 1989. She is survived by her son Samuel H. Davis (Cheryl), a daughter, Mary Ann Reis Romer (Theodore), thre
 JAFFE-Marlene Mae. March 29, 58 years old. Born in San Francisco. Daughter of the late Burton and Zella Jaffe. Very loving sister of Dr. Reuven Ralph and Ruth Jaffe. Beloved aunt to Naomi Devorah Jaffe and Adina and Rabbi Leslie Lipson and daughter Rebecca. A loving niece and cousin. Marlen
 KLAUS-Ida. The American Diabetes Association notes with sorrow the passing of its former secretary, Ida Klaus. Ms. Klaus was the secretary of the New York Diabetes Association and served on the executive committee during the late 1960's through the mid 1970's. She was a fundraiser par excel
 MILLETT-Josephine B. Died at her home in Washington, CT. She was a graduate of the Chapin School. She served in the O.S.S. during World War II. She was the widow of Richard C. Millett of New York City. She is survived by her daughter Alexandra Daniele of Tucson, Arizona.       
 PASSERMAN-Miriam R. On May 26, 1999. In her 98th year, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of NYC and Chappaqua, NY. She was acknowledged to have been the oldest Alumna of the Columbia School of Journalism, Class of 1925. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell W. Daughter of the late Charles and Sarah Ro
 STEIN-Helen (Kaven). Born in Canton, OH. Died peacefully on May 29, 1999, at age 81, after a long illness. Beloved wife of James Stein. Adoring mother of Elizabeth (Betsy) and mother-inlaw to Fredric Graber. Cherished grandmother of Anne and David Graber. Dear sister of Professor William Ka
 STEINBERG-Sylvia. We are saddened at the news of her tragic passing caused by injuries sustained in a car accident, and send our expressions of sympathy and comfort to our colleague, her husband Harry, and to her daughters Mara and Lisa. Martin Bookspan, Henry Denker, Tovah Feldshuh, Bel Ka
 VALLAS-DENNIS-Catherine. On May 28, 1999. Devoted and loving mother, wife, sister, Yia-Yia and aunt. Daughter of the late Vovo and Nicholas Vallas and adored wife of the late Paul Dennis. Beloved mother of Dean and his wife Debra, and sister of Venus Dimou, Bess and her husband John Papando
 WEISS-Kathryn Elizabeth Ryan, of Sewickley, PA, 84, died peacefully in her sleep at home after a short illness on May 27th, 1999. A native of NYC, Mrs. Weiss was the widow of Robert E. Weiss. She is survived by 4 children and 7 grandchildren. Interment in St. Joseph's Cemetery, Sommers, NY 
 Virginia Wise Marx, an educator and psychologist who dedicated herself to the care of children and their families, died last Sunday at White Plains Hospital. She was 93 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Since the early 1930's, Mrs. Marx had been involved in community affairs and a wide a
 HARFIELD-Marion Bussang. In her 90th year on May 29, 1999. Beloved wife of Henry Harfield for 58 years. Mother of Susan Harfield Leness Peck and the late Ellen Harfield Piel; grandmother of Amanda, Susie and Tony Leness, and Sarah and Katherine Piel. Daughter of the late Mabel and R. Willia
 STEIN-Helen (Kaven). Born in Canton, OH. Died peacefully on May 29, 1999, at age 81, after a long illness. Beloved wife of James Stein. Adoring mother of Elizabeth (Betsy) and mother-inlaw to Fredric Graber. Cherished grandmother of Anne and David Graber. Dear sister of Professor William Ka
 VALLAS-DENNIS-Catherine. On May 28, 1999. Devoted and loving mother, wife, sister, Yia-Yia and aunt. Daughter of the late Vovo and Nicholas Vallas and adored wife of the late Paul Dennis. Beloved mother of Dean and his wife Debra, and sister of Venus Dimou, Bess and her husband John Papando
