 Eleanor Doermann Larrabee, an architect who specialized in the construction and layout of libraries, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. She died of complications from injuries suffered when struck by a car t
 Evelyn Jablow, a widely known decorator and furniture designer, died on Sunday at her weekend home in Delhi, N.Y. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, according to her daughter, Joanne Jablow Yunich of Manhattan. Mrs. Jablow was one of the first t
 ASENCIO-Adelaida (nee Sanchez). A strong and courageous woman passed away September 28, 1997 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Juan (Eliseo). Devoted mother of Dr. Eliseo Asencio and Dr. Marysol Asencio. Adored aunt of Myra Gonzalez and husband Jose. Adopted mother of Dr. Margaret Hynes
 BARHAM-Constance C., Peekskill, Sun., Sept. 28. Requiem Eucharist will be offered in thanksgiving for her life on Wed. (today) at 11 AM, St. Peter's Episcopal Church, Peekskill. Interment Hillside Cemetery. Donations to St. Peter's Episcopal Church or Community Outreach Center, 137 N. Divis
 FROEHLICH-Hildegard, 89, (nee Haas), Sept. 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis Froehlich. Mother of Eugene Froehlich and Rose Lipman. Grandmother of Marc, Andrew, Debbe Callaghan and Steve Lipman and the late David. Sister of Lina Dreifus and Ruth Moos. Services October 1, 10:45 AM, ''
 LINKER-Blanche Silverman. Born on June 18, 1929. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt. Passed Tuesday, September 30, leaving a void in our lives. Her strength was an inspiration to us all. Services today at 1 PM, Parkside, Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn.       
 REICHMAN-Stella Jolles. Died September 9 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Henry Reichman. Loving mother of the late Thomas and Steven, grandmother of Jamie. Memorial service Wednesday, October 1, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 Street at 2PM. Contributions in her memory m
 ROTHENBERG - Flora. NCJW New York section, is saddened by the passing of our former Executive Director, Flora Rothenberg. For 25 years she was a source of strength and vitality. She leaves us with a legacy of dedication and loyalty to the NCJW philosophy. Bernice Friedes, Jean Krosner, Co-P
 VALDES-Esperanza Victoria. On September 26, 1997. Beloved mother of Dr. Lesley Rankin-Hill; sister Mauricio C. Valdes. Respected & loved New York City teacher at Brandeis High School & JHS 43. Her caring, devotion, insight and wisdom touched the lives of countless people young and old. Her 
 VOGEL-R. Marguerite, in her 98th year on September 26, 1997. Funeral service Thursday, October 2, at 11 AM. Saint Bartholomew's Chapel, Park Avenue at 50th Street. Interment October 3, in Albany Rural Cemetery, Albany, NY. Donations in lieu of flowers may be made to WIMSA-Women In Military 
 Esther G. Gottesman, whose service to the Jewish community spanned more than 60 years and who played an important role in the acquisition of the Dead Sea Scrolls for Israel, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Manhattan. Mrs. Got
 DWYER-Virginia A. Retired Senior Vice-President of AT&T, died Monday, September 29, 1997 following a lengthy illness. She was 76. ''Ginny'' was a major presence. She was a Director and Deputy Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Universi
 GOTTESMAN-Esther (Garfunkel), on October 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, adored mother of Milton, David and the late Alice, and loving mother-inlaw of Ruth. Devoted sister to Florence, Harold, Julian and the late Elsie and Mildred. Wonderful grandmother of Robert and Trudy, Alic
 OLSON-Vivian A. On Sept. 30, 1997. Beloved mother of Kathryn and Alan Greenberg, Connie and Ronald Fishbach. Adored grandmother of Daniel and Stephen Fishbach. Contributions in her memory may be made to Diabetes Research Institute Foundation, 11 Penn Plaza, New York, NY 10001. OLSON
 SAUNDERS-Rosetta J., 77, a retired financial director of several publishing companies, died on September 30 at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, MD. The cause of death was complications associated with smoking-induced lung cancer and emphysema. A native New Yorker and longtime resident 
 TAITTONEN-Edith, September 30, 1997. A graduate of Ohio State University, a veteran of the U.S. Navy, a New Yorker since 1957, she worked for many years for the Community Service Society and for the Community Council of Greater New York, and was an active member of the Women's City Club. Sh
 TANNER-Pauline Steinlauf, after a long illness, cherished wife of the late Irving; loved by children Ben and Ellen Tanner Farkas, and Nicki and Harold Tanner; and grandchildren Esta and Paul Farkas, Gary and Lynn Farkas Schwartz, Peggy and David Tanner; Catherine Allegra and James Tanner, K
 Dorothy Kingsley, a leading screenwriter in Hollywood in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula, in Monterey, Calif. She was 87 and lived in Carmel. Miss Kingsley wrote screenplays for more than 25 movies, specializing in musicals a
 CUNNINGHAM - RUNDLES - Mary Alice. New York City, September 28th, 1997, age 84. Beloved mother of Ward, Susanna, Charlotte, daughter-in-law Marietta, son-inlaw Jim, grandmother of Kiki and Alison, sister of Jane. Teacher of 19 years of classes of medical students at New York University Medi
 HILEY-Edith L., of Sarasota, Florida, September 30, 1997. Survivors include her son, David B. of Katonah, NY; sister, Marie M. Luhr of Sarasota; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to the American Lung Association.       
 KAI-Kockmay Irene. Passed away 9/27/97. Beloved wife of Heng Tan. Loving mother of Quinnie Sg Tan. Born 10/20/50. Received her degree in Gemology, Hong Kong Baptist College. Member of Fellowship of Gemological Assocation of Great Britain. FGA/ GIA appraisal diploma. Owner of Abacus Jewelry,
 RUSSELL-Marion Whitney. On October 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late W. Frank Russell; mother of Francia Russell Stowell and Marilyn Russell. Grandmother of Christopher, Darren and Ethan Stowell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday 4-7 PM. Mass of Christ
 TANNER-Pauline Steinlauf, after a long illness, cherished wife of the late Irving; loved by children Ben and Ellen Tanner Farkas, and Nicki and Harold Tanner; and grandchildren Esta and Paul Farkas, Gary and Lynn Farkas Schwartz, Peggy and David Tanner; Catherine Allegra and James Tanner, K
 Virginia A. Dwyer, a former senior vice president for finance at the AT&T Corporation and one of the first women to gain a top position at a major American company, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. Miss Dwyer, a resident of Manhattan, was 76. The cause of death wa
 COHEN-Minnie, nee Trachtenberg. Beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother died October 3, 1997. Survived by her children Jack, Lawrence and Arthur Cohen and Roslyn Blumberg. Service will be held Sunday, October 5, 10:45AM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Lo
 FRANKFURTER-Estelle S. On October 2, 1997, peacefully at home at 101 years of age. Beloved sister of the late Otto, Fred, Felix, Paul and Ella Frankfurter. Devoted aunt of Ruth Lehr and Dorothy Hart. Services 9:45 A.M., Monday, October 6th, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 LARRABEE - DOERMANN - Elea nor, AIA. The members of the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter, mourn the death of our colleague Eleanor Doermann Larrabee. A member of the AIA New York Chapter Architecture Dialogue Committee. She was devoted to the well being of the community and
 PALIN-Anna, on October, 2, 1997, age 87. Devoted wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Michael (Caryl) and Carole Sehres (Mort). Devoted grandmother of Jill, Stacey, Dorothy, Andrea and Dean. Loving great-grandmother of ten. Devoted sister of Jules and Sol. Funeral services Sunday, Octob
 TANNER-Pauline Steinlauf, after a long illness, cherished wife of the late Irving; loved by children Ben and Ellen Tanner Farkas, and Nicki and Harold Tanner; and grandchildren Esta and Paul Farkas, Gary and Lynn Farkas Schwartz, Peggy and David Tanner; Catherine Allegra and James Tanner, K
 Merian Lovelace Kirchner, the little girl whose pleadings for just one more bedtime story gave birth to a beloved series of children's books, died on Sept. 25 at a hospital on Staten Island. She was 66 and the daughter of Maud Hart Lovelace, the creator of the Betsy-Tacy books. Frie
 BREGER-Beatrice. 85, formerly of Forest Hills, Queens on October 2, 1997, in Chevy Chase, MD. Beloved wife of the late Miles Breger, cherished mother of Lynne and Howard Tag of Washington, DC and Marshall and Jennifer Breger, of Silver Spring, MD. Also survived by her devoted sister Hannah 
 CLARK-Sylvia. Passed away in the home she loved on Oct. 1, 1997. A brilliant and vibrant woman of the highest moral integrity whose grace, beauty, dignity and dedication to her family shall always be with us. Beloved wife of Ronald H. Clark. Devoted mother and best friend of Alice M. Clark.
 COOPER-Ruth L. Dear friend and loyal supporter of the purebred dog. She will be sorely missed. Luc Boileau Matthew H. Stander       
 DELOACHE-Natalie, in her 89th year, after a brief illness. Sister of the late, beloved Lillian Lawrence. Natalie will be remembered for her love of art, beauty and animals, and her incredible ability to ''amuse and amaze'', which stayed with her until the very end. Followed into eternity by
 FRANKFURTER-Estelle S. On October 2, 1997, peacefully at home at 101 years of age. Beloved sister of the late Otto, Fred, Felix, Paul and Ella Frankfurter. Devoted aunt of Ruth Lehr and Dorothy Hart. Services 9:45 A.M., Monday, October 6th, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 GOODMAN-Claire. Age 85. Died October 2, 1997 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida after a long illness. Claire was a pioneer in the New York decorative fabric business, having been the first woman to hold an executive sales position in that industry. A loyal and caring friend with a wonderfully uniqu
 GOTTESMAN-Esther. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Esther Gottesman of New York and Palm Beach, a dedicated and fervent supporter of Israel and the Jewish community through her lifelong involvement with Hadassah and a multitude of Jewish educational institutio
 JANOVER-Lillian H., died peacefully in her sleep October 2, 1997 at age 95. Widow of the late Cyrus J. Janover. Mother of Robert H. Janover of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan and Evelyn J. Halpert of New York City. Grandmother of James J. and David J. Halpert and Laura Janover. Great grandmother
 KREISMAN-Lottie. At the age of 102. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Raymond and Leonard. Adoring grandmother of Laura, Marcie, Eric, Sarah and Rachel. Contributions may be made in her memory to either NJ Geriatric Center, 225 W. Jersey St., Elizabeth, NJ 07202 or Center fo
 LAZAR-Ruth Stolz. Cherished wife of the late Dr Alfred E. Lazar, beloved mother of Laura (Stephen) Siegel, Kenneth S. (Valerie) Lazar and Fran (Dr. Jeffrey) Ashkin; adored grandmother of Shari, Jonathan (Majorie), and David Siegel, Emily and Michael Lazar, Eric, Hillary and Adrienne Ashkin;
 PALIN-Anna. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Anna Palin, wife of the late Louis Palin. We extend sincere sympathies to her children, our respected friend and Director of the Hebrew Home Board of Directors
 ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah Bimko. October 3, 1997. On Friday night after Rosh Hashanah, surrounded by her children and granddaughter, our beloved, heroic, unique Hadassah left us at the age of 85 after a valiant battle with liver failure resulting from malaria and hepatitis she contracted at Au
 TANNER-Pauline Steinlauf, after a long illness, cherished wife of the late Irving; loved by children Ben and Ellen Tanner Farkas, and Nicki and Harold Tanner; and grandchildren Esta and Paul Farkas, Gary and Lynn Farkas Schwartz, Peggy and David Tanner; Catherine Allegra and James Tanner, K
 HAYMES-Beatrice. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our dedicated benefactor and founder, Stephen D. Haymes. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. May her memory be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, President Sey
 JANOVER-Lillian H., died peacefully in her sleep October 2, 1997 at age 95. Widow of the late Cyrus J. Janover. Mother of Robert H. Janover of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan and Evelyn J. Halpert of New York City. Grandmother of James J. and David J. Halpert and Laura Janover. Great grandmother
 KREISMAN-Lottie. At the age of 102. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Raymond (Esta) and Leonard (Ruth). Adoring grandmother of Laura, Marcie, Eric, Sarah and Rachel. Contributions may be made in her memory to either NJ Geriatric Center, 225 W. Jersey St, Elizabeth, New Jers
 ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah Bimko. October 3, 1997. On Friday night after Rosh Hashanah, surrounded by her children and granddaughter, our beloved, heroic, unique Hadassah left us at the age of 85 after a valiant battle with liver failure resulting from malaria and hepatitis she contracted at Au
 FORTGANG-Pearl B., 90, died in Dallas, Texas, October 5, 1997. Interment Dallas, Texas. Preceded in death by her husband, Irving Fortgang. Donations may be made to American Heart Association.       
 GOTTESMAN-Esther G. Librarians and staff at Yeshiva University's Mendel Gottesman Library extend heartfelt condolences to children David S. and Ruth Gottesman and Milton Gottesman, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, brothers, sister, and the entire family upon the passing of a woman of dig
 GUNNING-(Moffett) Rosemary R. of Ridgewood, Queens, New York born 1905. Died peacefully at home among family after a brief illness. Practicing attorney and former member of the New York State Assembly from 1968 to 1972. Beloved wife of the late Lester Moffett. Dear aunt to John, Joan, Marie
 KLEIN-Sonia. Died peacefully in Hollywood, Fla., on Monday, Oct 6, 1997. She was the beloved wife of Myron Klein and mother of Eliane. She is survived by her grandchildren Barbara, Daniel and Mark; their spouses and five loving great grandchildren. May she rest in peace.       
 MASCIANA-Teresa. On Oct 4, 1997. Born in Reggio, Calabria on April 15, 1924. Beloved wife of the late Bruno. Survived by sons Aldo and Bruno and Lon Devitt, daughter-in-law Cindy and granddaughter Clarissa, as well as family and friends in Italy and Manhattan. Friends may call at the Andret
 MC COY-Esther. Passed away on October 6, 1997 at age 93. Born in Spokane, Washington. Graduate of University of Iowa. Accountant active in business for several decades, active with Ladies of Charity, Archdiocese of New York and numerous other charitable and cultural organizations. She is su
 OLSON-Vivian A. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Vivian A. Olson, beloved mother of Kathryn Greenberg, a cherished leader in our community, and founder and Chairman of the Board of the New York Legal Assistance Group, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency. Kathr
 ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft ''Matriach of the Survivors'', and extend our deepest sympathies to her children Menachem, Jean and Jodi, and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice Preside
 WECKSELL-Anne. On Oct 5, 1997. Beloved wife of Dr. Irving Wecksell. Devoted mother of Alan Wecksell, mother-in-law of Marilyn. Loving grandmother of Evan, Beth, Wendy and Debbie. WECKSELL-Anne. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. 
 Rosemary R. Gunning, who led fights against school busing in New York City in the 1960's and went on to become one of the first female Assembly members, died on Saturday night at the home of a niece in Roslyn, N.Y. She was 92. The cause was liver cancer, said a grandniece, Patricia 
 Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft, who is credited with having saved hundreds of Jewish inmates while a prisoner at Auschwitz, died on Friday in Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. She was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her son, Menachem, said Monday that t
 Mary Jayne Gold, a Chicago heiress who used some of her fortune to help prominent Jewish or anti-Nazi artists like Chagall flee Nazi-occupied France, died on Sunday at her home near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera. She was 88. Miss Gold, who attended finishing school in Italy and j
 DOCHTENBERG - Estelle. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our member, Phyllis Fier. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President       
 FRANKFURTER-Estelle S. The Board and Staff of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the passing of Estelle Frankfurter of New York, a longtime, generous supporter and friend of Ben-Gurion University. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to her family.
 GUNNING-Rosemary. The Advisory Council to the Housing Part of the Civil Court mourns the passing of Rosemary Gunning. As a State Assemblywoman, Rosemary sponsored the legislation which created the Housing Court. For more than two decades, until her retirement last year, Rosemary served as a
 JACKSON-Miriam. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved former County Chairwoman. Her bright smile and helping hand were always there, helping us lead the way. David A. Alpert, Chairman Westchester County Democratic Committee       
 KLEIMAN-Barbara. On October 7, 1997. Beloved daughter of Bella Kleiman and the late Murray Kleiman. Sister of Michael and Mark Kleiman and Isabel Byron. Aunt of Molly Kleiman. Cherished of Stan Diglio. Assistant Commissioner, NYC Dept of Homeless Services. Passionate advocate for services t
 KLEIN-Sonia. Died peacefully in Hollywood, Florida, on Monday, October 6, 1997. She was the beloved wife of Myron Klein and mother of Eliane. She is survived by her grandchildren Barbara, Daniel and Mark; their spouses and five loving great grandchildren. May she rest in peace.       
 KRASNER-Marian. On October 4, 1997. Beloved wife of Dr. Charles Krasner. Devoted mother of Donna and partner Susan, and Gena. Cherished mother-in-law of Jochem. Loving sister of Barbara and Ken Jensen, and aunt of Glenn. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Family receiving visito
 AGATE-Anita Kaufman, on October 8, 1997. Peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Sanford S. Agate. Adored mother of Constance Austin. Loving grandmother of Anita Dann Friedman and Caroline Dann. Adored greatgrandmother of Adam and Jonathan Friedman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 
 BUBLICK-Judith S. Peacefully, on Oct 5, 1997. Cherished partner and wife of the late David Bublick, dear mother of Linda, Aaron; truly magical, deeply beloved grandmother of David and Peter. Writer for old-time radio, poet, painter, world traveler; her enthusiasm never waned. Her wit and hu
 GOLD-Mary Jayne. The International Rescue Committee mourns the passing of Mary Jayne Gold. In the dark days of 1941-42, she was a genuine heroine who saved many of Europe's leading artists and intellectuals trapped in Marseilles and seemingly destined for Hitler's extermination camps. Her c
 GUNNING-Rosemary. As an Assemblywoman she was a role model for Women in Politics. As a community leader she was without peer, as a friend she was an inspiration. In sympathy. Catherine Nolan       
 HOPKINS-Gertrude B., died of heart failure October 7 at St. Vincent's. She was an actress who starred on Broadway in the play ''Janie'', and who played ''Mary'' in ''Life With Father'' among many other roles in the 1940s.       
 KLEIMAN-Barbara. On October 7, 1997. Beloved daughter of Bella Kleiman and the late Murray Kleiman. Sister of Michael and Mark Kleiman and Isabel Byron. Aunt of Molly Kleiman. Cherished of Stan Diglio. Assistant Commissioner, NYC Dept of Homeless Services. Passionate advocate for services t
 ROME-Florence, 87, at her home in Manhattan on October 6, 1997. Wife of the late Harold Rome. Mother of Joshua and Rachel. Grandmother of Shoshanna and Leah. Memorial service at 11 A.M. Wednesday, Oct. 15, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (at 81st Street).       
 RYAN-Marion M. Of Bronxville, N.Y., October 7, 1997. Dear sister of Eileen M. and Anne P. Ryan. Served for over forty years at Newtown High School in Elmhurst, Queens in the varied roles of teacher, teacher counselor, dean, cooperative course administrator and assistant principal in charge 
 AGATE-Anita Kaufman, on October 8, 1997. Peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Sanford S. Agate. Adored mother of Constance Austin. Loving grandmother of Anita Dann Friedman (Harvey) and Caroline Dann. Adored greatgrandmother of Adam and Jonathan Friedman. Services at Frank E. Campbe
 BARSKE-Esther, on October 9, 1997, in Fairfield, CT. Widow of Abraham Barske. Survived by her children, Harriet and Howard Peck of Atlanta, Raymond and Rhonda Barske of Bethel, Conn. Grandchildren, Randy and Scott Barske, Steven and Jeffrey Sledkus. Services Friday 10:00 A.M., at Hebrew Sic
 BEARMAN-Sam. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Sam Bearman, beloved father of Marla Siskind. We extend our deepest sympathies to Marla; her husband, Alan; and their children, Daniel and Tamara Jill. Seymour R. Askin, J
 BENSON-Adelaide. On October 7. Devoted sister of Milton and Ruth, loving aunt of Faye, Alfred, Lois and Adrienne and Ellen. She worked in the garment industry for last 35 years. Service 1:30, on Sunday, at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FRANKFORT - Renee. Passed away October 8, 1997. Loving mother of David (Joyce), Edward (Tina Suzan), Helene (Larry). Adoring grandmother of nine, cherished great-grandmother of two and caring friend. Her kindness and heartfelt goodness touched the lives of many, all of whom will miss this s
 FRIEDLANDER-Lillian. After a long and fruitful life Lillian (formerly Bieber), wife of the late Maurice, mother of Brent Friedlander, sister of Richard Bieber, died on Wednesday, October 8, 1997. Lillian was born in New York City, July 15, 1896. At the age of 101, she was an active woman. M
 GOLDSTEIN-Rose. Age 88. Cherished wife of Walter. Caring sister of Benjamin Rosenfeld. Also beloved by all who knew her.       
 LIFSHEY-Sam. National Council of Jewish Women Brooklyn Section Inc., extend heartfelt sympathy to our board member Ruth Lifshey on the loss of her husband Sam. Services at Garlick Funeral Home, 1700 Coney Island Avenue. Co-Presidents Anne Berger and Rita Berger       
 ROSCELLI-Maureen F. McKenna. Of Bloomfield, on October 7, 1997, wife of Richard N. Roscelli, mother of Richard K. Roscelli, sister of Kenneth McKenna, daughter of Ruthye Giorgio and the late Michael McKenna, stepdaughter of Eleanor McKenna and Anthony Giorgio. Also survived by her inlaws Ed
 ROSENKRANTZ-Essye. Oct. 8, 1997 in her 92nd year, Charlotte, NC. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Maurice C. Rosenkrantz (formerly of Scarsdale, NY and Hollywood, FL). Devoted mother of Edmund and Diane Rosenkrantz and Judith and Milton Tager. Adored and adoring grandmother of Beth Benamy, Bonn
 TANENBAUM-Mary Mayer, for 59 years beloved wife of Charles J. Tanenbaum, and loving mother of Ann Tanenbaum King. Born in San Francisco, the greatgranddaughter of Marcus Reyman, a California pioneer, she won the City Girl's Tennis championship and continued her tennis career at Stanford whe
 CARLIN-Sister Frances Maureen, OP, past Superior General of the Sisters of St. Dominic of Amityville, New York, died October 9 at Carlin Hall, an infirmary named in her honor. Sister was head of the congregation from 1967-73. She was also past Academic Dean of Molloy College in Rockville Ce
 GOLDSTEIN-Rose. Age 88. Cherished wife of Walter. Caring sister of Benjamin Rosenfeld. Also beloved by all who knew her.       
 GOTTSCHALK - Audrey. Died peacefully on October 10, 1997, at age 89. Wife of the late Robert F. Gottschalk and cousin of Frances Bolton. She had a keen mind, great wit and fierce loyalties. She will be deeply missed by all those who knew her.       
 KEATING-Sr. Maria Lawrence. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity and former Head Mistress of the Academy of Mount Saint Vincent on Oct. 9, 1997. Survived by her niece, Joan Marshall, and her nephew, Thomas Marshall. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St., Yonkers, NY on 
 TANENBAUM-Mary Mayer, for 59 years beloved wife of Charles J. Tanenbaum, and loving mother of Ann Tanenbaum King. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81 Street), Sunday, October 12, at 1:00 P.M. Contributions may be made in her name to the Stanford Museum of 
 YOUNG-Barbara Louise Berman. Devoted and adoring wife of Dr. Gilbert H. Young. Loving mother of Laurie and Rabbi Stephen Pearce, Beth and Dr. Joel Rush, and grandmother of Sarah Jean and Michael. Cherished neice of Frieda B. Wohl. Her appreciation of the beauty and goodness in life guide an
 Jane Warner Dick, an early social welfare advocate who later served on a United Nations panel, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 91. Mrs. Dick's social work began in 1926 with Hull House, founded by Jane Addams in 1889. A friend of Ms. Addams, Mrs. Dick volun
 ADAMS-Anne (Backus). 75, of Farmington, CT. Beloved wife of Worthington Miner Adams, died suddenly, Wednesday, October 8, 1997, at Hartford Hospital. Besides her husband she is survived by her two daughters, Linn Adams Seidensticker of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, Mary Adams Lines of Bedford Hil
 GOLDMAN-Trudy, 80, died peacefully in her sleep on October 11, 1997. Mother of Ellen Patrick and Amy Goldstein. Grandmother of Liza and Steve Patrick, Matt and Danny Goldstein. Funeral on Tuesday, October 14, at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer, 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, NY, 718-263-7600.
 GOLDSTEIN-Rose. Age 88. Cherished wife of Walter. Caring sister of Benjamin Rosenfeld. Also beloved by all who knew her.       
 GOTTSCHALK - Audrey. Died peacefully on October 10, 1997, at age 89. Wife of the late Robert F. Gottschalk and cousin of Frances Bolton. She had a keen mind, great wit and fierce loyalties. She will be deeply missed by all those who knew her.       
 MOODY-Ruth Pierpont. Formerly of Brooklyn and Fort Lauderdale, survived by her children Alfred G. S. Moody, Jr., of Ridgewood, NJ, and Caroline M. Roberts of Sewickley, PA, four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Interment at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.       
 ROSENKRANTZ - Thea (nee Schwarz) wife of late Ernest on October 10, 1997 six days after her sixty-ninth birthday. She leaves a legacy of love and devotion to eight children: Robert, Gary, Wayne, Clark, Kevin, Deborah, Selma and Cora. Sons-in-law: Steve, Jim and Ronald. Daughtersin-law: Caro
 RUBEN-Judy. The rarest of treasures and most wonderful, loving friend and human being who brought extraordinary joy into our lives and the lives of so many. We shall miss her infinitely. We embrace and love her soulmate and our dear friend Al and their most special children and grandchildre
 SCHERZER-Betty. A loving and devoted wife to the late Dr. Maxwell C. Scherzer, mother to Melany Whitney Kauffman and Joan Freedman. Grandmother to Lauren, Paige & Maxwell. Motherin-law to Alan and Philip. Left us on October 5, 1997. Her courage and spirit demonstrated by her during her long
 SHANE-Anne. We deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend and respected colleague, who has enriched our lives for many years. We shall miss the light she brought to everything, and the daily pleasure of her warmth and caring. Our deepest sympathies go out to her children, Michael, S
 TANENBAUM-Mary Mayer, for 59 years beloved wife of Charles J. Tanenbaum, and loving mother of Ann Tanenbaum King. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81 Street), Sunday, October 12, at 1:00 P.M. Contributions may be made in her name to the Stanford Museum of 
 YOUNG-Barbara L. The Chairman, the Board of Trustess, the Director and Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of their dear friend Barbara L. Young who served as President of the Roebling Society of the Museum for the past twelve years. A tireless and dedica
 STEWART-Virginia M., age 65 years, of Bayport, LI and Davis Park, Fire Island, on October 12, 1997. (Graduate of Packer Collegiate Institute, Brooklyn Heights, Class of 1952. Owner of Ethelind S. Realty Co., Davis Park, Fire Island). Beloved wife of Robert. Loving mother of Robert, Jr. Dear
 BELL-Marie Consalvi, 99, died Friday in Norwalk, CT. Wife of the late Harry C. Bell, she is survived by a son, Daniel W. Bradley; two daughters, Jean B. Harper, Mimi Bradley Bliss; 12 grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren. Memorial donations may be made to Notre Dame Convalescent Home, 76
 BORSUK-Evelyn Feinsod, 87 years old, on Sunday, October 12, of Boca Raton, FL., and a former resident of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Morris R. Feinsod and the late Benjamin Borsuk. Devoted mother of George and Norma, David and Carole, Donald and June. Loving grandmother of Me
 KAGAN-Hildegard (nee Wallach). 93. On October 11, 1997 in Geneva, Switzerland. Devoted wife of the late Illi Kagan. She is survived by her brother, Helmuth Wallach, her two children, Tanya Josefowitz and Vladimir Kagan, six granchildren and ten great-grandchildren. She had a wonderful, long
 LINDNER-Lillian. On October 12, 1997. Peacefully in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Lindner. Loving mother of Jack and Anneliese Lindner and the late Jean Lindner Kass. Generous and adoring grandmother of Benjamin Lindner, Robert Kass and Robyn Lindner. Proud greatgrandmoth
 PASSIN-Mae, 66, of San Diego, CA., formerly of Mill Basin, Brooklyn, NY and El Paso, TX, died on September 30, 1997. She is survived by her husband Frank; son Howard, daughter Sheila; two grandsons Steven and Cliff, all residing in San Diego, CA.; and a sister Sylvia Ness of Teaneck, NJ.   
 RESNICK-Monya (Minnie), 103. Died in Weston, Florida Oct. 12. Beloved wife of the late Julius Resnick. Mother of Irene Resnick and the late Murray M. Resnick. Grandmother to Byron Wright, Leslie Granoff, Jo Ann Small and Ellen Franco and also seven great-grandchildren. She was a very specia
 ROME-Florence, 87, at her home in Manhattan on October 6, 1997. Wife of the late Harold Rome. Mother of Joshua and Rachel. Grandmother of Shoshanna and Leah. Memorial service at 11 A.M. Wednesday, Oct. 15, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (at 81st Street).       
 SPRUNG-Shirley. Beloved and cherished wife of the late Jerome. Devoted mother of Sara & Daniel. Dear sister of Robert and Meyer Judd. Adoring grandmother of two cherished granddaughters. Service 12:00 P.M., on Wednesday, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flow
 YOUNG-Barbara L. The members of the Roebling Society of the Brooklyn Museum of Art mourn the passing of their long-time President Barbara L. Young and extend their deepest condolences to her family. As President of the Roebling Society for the past 12 years she was selfless in her dedicatio
 BORSUK-Evelyn Feinsod. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our beloved colleague Evelyn Feinsod Borsuk. Our deepest condolences to her family. May her memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post National President Beth Wohlgelernter National Executive Director       
 DIETZ-Lynne. Beloved wife of Hal for 50 years. Devoted mother of Ken and Debbie and Laurie Dietz, Marcie and Stuart Lipsett. Adoring ninny of Matthew, Max and Jake. Loved by all her friends. Lynn, you left us much too quickly. Your spirit, humor and strength inspired everyone who knew you. 
 KLATTSKY-Bessie Klatt. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved sister of the late Sidney Weisner, a YU Benefactor. We extend heartfelt condolences to her son, Robert Klatt; grandchildren, Brad Klatt and Bambi Goode; gre
 LEVINREW-Janet (nee Tuck). Of Edgewater, MD, formerly of NYC, October 13, 1997. Sister of Eugene Tuck. She is also survived by a niece Martha T. Rozett and nephews Jonathan and Daniel Tuck. Funeral services will be private.       
 ROGERS-Carolee A. (nee: Williams), 50, of Glen Rock, NJ, died Monday, October 6, 1997, at home. She worked as a Systems Analyst for Texaco Inc., in Harrison, NY. Beloved wife of Eugene and devoted mother to Thomas and Andrew. She is also survived by her mother Marie and brother Gregory Will
 ROME-Florence, 87, at her home in Manhattan on October 6, 1997. Wife of the late Harold Rome. Mother of Joshua and Rachel. Grandmother of Shoshanna and Leah. Memorial service at 11 A.M. Wednesday, Oct. 15, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (at 81st Street).       
 ROSS-Anita Firestone. On October 12, 1997. Beloved aunt of Dr. Stephen and Doreen Klass, Dr. Robert and Carolyn Klass, Warren West, Wendy West and Judy West Cohen. Great aunt to Elizabeth Klass, Mark Klass, Jeremy Klass, Justin Octavi, Amaris Octavi, Daniel Cohen and Emily Cohen. Loving sis
 TATKON-Carol Clark. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted alumna and Trustee, Carol Clark Tatkon, whose leadership, energy and commitment to the University was an inspiration for more than four decades. An involved undergraduate and member of the Class of '59, she went on to a dis
 WEISS-Sylvia. Formerly of Pembroke Pines and Levittown. The family of Sylvia Sue Weiss notes with great sadness her passing on October 13, 1997. Beloved mother to Karyn and Lisa and devoted grandmother to Quinn. We will miss her always. Donations can be sent to the New York Women's Foundati
 YILMAZ-Florence, 51 years old. Suddenly on October 13. Beloved wife of Osman. Enjoyed and admired by her colleagues at Workbench, Inc., where for 18 years she was assistant to the chairman and corporate secretary. Service on Thursday, 7:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Mad
 BRAUN-Gladys (Schreiber), 97 years young, Tuesday, October 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo Braun. Treasured Mother of Phyllis Braun Leventhal and son-in-law Bernard. Adored and adoring Grammy of Lionel, Alexander and Evan Leventhal. Cherished darling big sister of Celia Levine, Sidney 
 GUIDA-Betty Jane, formerly of Great Neck, died suddenly on October 14 at Hillsboro Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Andrew Guida, mother of Grace and Joanne Schrank, grandmother of Debra and Nicoll, sister of Mary Ellen Straus. In lieu of flowers, contact St. Gabriel's Church, Pompano Beach,
 HARTMAN-Ann, died on October 3, 1997, three weeks before her 95th birthday. She was loved and revered by her children, Kathlyn and Jerard, her daughter-in-law, Dorothy, her seven grandchildren, and her 7 great grandchildren. For over forty years she was active in fashion and design circles 
 KANE-Theresa (nee Marchetti), 51, of New York City, formerly of Jeannette, PA., died Sunday, October 12, 1997 at her residence. She was born May 8, 1946 in Jeannette. A daughter of William J. Marchetti and the late Lena Tressa Caserio Marchetti. In addition to her mother she was predeceased
 PINSKER-Ella N. Loving wife of the late Martin. Devoted sister of Harry Neufeld and the late Ruth Klebanow, Philip Newfield, Nettie Bain & Selma Farkas. Adored aunt & great aunt. We loved her dearly. Services were held privately.       
 RUBEN-Judy. She was our inspiration, our pride, and above all our joy. All who met her were touched by her warmth and humor. She combined a lifetime commitment to human liberation with pure, irrepressible love. We grieve with Al, her family and the huge extended family of friends and comrad
 SELDOW-Leona, October 14, 1997. Mother of Carol (Walter) Irvine. Aunt of Scott Armstrong. Funeral service to be held Thursday, 10AM at Goldsteins' Rosenberg's Raphael-Sacks, Philadelphia. Interment, Mt. Hope Cemetery. Contributions in her memory may be made to Albert Einstein Cancer Center,
 SOLOMON-Doris Vercoe, 77, of Hillsboro, New Hampshire and Brookline, Mass., on October 12, 1997, at Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, of complications following surgery. Beloved wife of Joseph L. Solomon, mother of Magen Solomon of Menlo Park, Calif., Mara Solomon-Auger of Scituate, Mas
 WARD-Laura Alison. On Oct. 14, 1997, after a long illness. Survived by her mother, Frances, sisters, Claudia and Susan, as well as their families who all loved her very dearly. There will be a short service at the Greenwood Cemetery and Crematory, Fifth Avenue and 25 Street in Brooklyn, Thu
 BRAUN-Gladys (Schreiber), 97 years young, Tuesday, October 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo Braun. Treasured Mother of Phyllis Braun Leventhal and son-in-law Bernard. Adored and adoring Grammy of Lionel, Alexander and Evan Leventhal. Cherished darling big sister of Celia Levine, Sidney 
 DAVIDSON-Luise Scheiner, 90, died Wednesday, October 15, 1997, at the Chester County Hospital in West Chester, PA. Born in Rochester, NY, she was the widow of Robert M. Davidson who died in 1984. She was the former Director of Volunteers at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. She held vario
 HANDLER-Miriam A. Age 82. Died on October 16, 1997 after a long illness. Cherished wife of Professor Milton Handler; devoted mother of Carole E. Handler; adored grandmother of Lisi and Lani Schoenbach; beloved sister of Milton Adler & Avivah Benamy; beloved aunt of Dr. Daniel Adler, Denise 
 HOFMANN-Regina. On October 15, 1997 at the age of 85. Wife of the late Max Hofmann, M.D. Mother of Peter Hofmann, M.D. Services at the Hebrew Tabernacle, 551 Fort Washington Avenue, NYC, Sunday, October 19, 11 AM. She will be missed by her many friends and her family in whose hearts she wil
 LOWE-Carole M., of Grand Cayman Islands and Boston, October 15, 1997, Mrs. Carole (Myers), wife of Philip Lowe, aged 79 years. Lovingly survived by her husband Philip, a son and daughter-in-law Prof. Perry Lowe and Delphine Lowe of Belmont, 2 grandchildren Todd Lowe of New York City and Ale
 ROSS-Mildred. The Sternberg family notes with great sorrow the passing of Mildred Ross. She was a friend in the fullest to us for decades and her loss will be deeply felt. Our sincerest condolences to the Ross family on their bereavement. The Sternberg Family ROSS-Mildred. Great lad
 SATO-Anna Turid, Wednesday, October 15, 1997, Turid Sato of Washington, D.C and Flesberg, Norway. She is survived by her son, Thomas Sato Danforth, her partner, William E. Smith, her mother, Tora Hoimyr, her sister, Solveig Sato, and many other close friends and family in the United States,
 SELMAN-Regina R. Esq., 10/15/97. Hollywood, FL/Spring Valley, NY. Wife of the late Dr. A.N. Selman. Dearly loved & respected by all of her relatives and friends. We will remember you forever.....Ted. Burial Sunday. Details: 914-356-8600       
 STAMBERG - Barbara B., of Greenwich, CT., and Palm City, FL. on October 15 in Greenwich. She is survived by her husband, Frank L. Stamberg; her children Amie D. Stamberg of Ridgefield, CT, Susan Schnoor of Hurlock, MD, Frank L. Stamberg, Jr. of Riverside, CT, and Bebe McCarthy of Port Chest
 SONENBLICK-Grace Osler (nee Brown). October 17, 1987. Forever amazing Grace, always an inspiration to her daughters and granddaughters. Susan, Amy, Julie, Dana, Abby, Lydia and Joanna SONENBLICK-Grace Osler. It has been ten years and not a day passes that I do not think of you and m
 Lotte Goslar, a dancer and mime known for her eccentric and whimsical comedy, died on Thursday at the Willowood Nursing Home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 90 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn. A short, roly-poly woman with a round, expressive face, Miss Goslar as a performer bro
 BRAUN-Gladys (Schreiber), 97 years young, Tuesday, October 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo Braun. Treasured Mother of Phyllis Braun Leventhal and son-in-law Bernard. Adored and adoring Grammy of Lionel, Alexander and Evan Leventhal. Cherished darling big sister of Celia Levine, Sidney 
 DISTLER-Betsy, an extraordinary human being. The President, a Fellow, a Training Analyst and a Supervisor of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research. A creative person who was a source of love, a pillar of strength, and a well of understanding for her husband David, her sons 
 GINSBERG-Frances Mary (Porcelli). Died at 80 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Robert Ginsberg, President of the Fur Association of America and devoted mother of Roger Ginsberg; PGA Touring professional and current Golf Director of Muttontown Country Club, and Frank C. Ginsberg, Chairm
 GOLDBERG-Essie Cohen. Devoted wife of the late Harry A. Beloved mother of Sondra and Murray Stoller, Sharon and Irwin Parker, Enid and Donald Hillman. Adored grandmother of Rhonda and Michael, Leslie and Walter, Laurie and Peter, Glenn and Elise, Mark and Adrianne, and Jennifer. Cherished g
 HANDLER-Miriam A. Age 82. Died on October 16, 1997 after a long illness. Cherished wife of Professor Milton Handler; devoted mother of Carole E. Handler; adored grandmother of Lisi and Lani Schoenbach; beloved sister of Milton Adler & Avivah Benamy; beloved aunt of Dr. Daniel Adler, Denise 
 KRENIK-Helen (nee Heiling). Died at age 94 in Boynton Beach, FL. Devoted wife to the late Charles Krenik. Beloved mother to Paul, Betty and the late Henri. She is survived by her grandchildren Martine, Catherine, Corinne, Gordon, Gabrielle and Giselle and caring step-grandchildren Gerard an
 MILLER-Zelda, October 17, 1997. She is survived by her daughter Stacey Dumain, her son Jeffrey Miller, her dear and devoted friend Julius Wittman, her granddaughters Emma and Rebecca Dumain, and by her niece Sandra Ball. She will be missed by them and by her many friends. Service Sunday, 11
 NANNI-Ethel. October 17, 1997. Beloved wife of Louis F. Nanni. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call on Saturday 7-9 PM and Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 ROSS-Mildred. With profound sorrow the Officers, Board and staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations mourn the death of a cherished friend and devoted collegue. A truly elegant and gentle woman, she lovingly served our sacred cause for many years with quiet dedication and caring c
 SCHWARTZ-Mary (nee Kaiser). 1906-1997. Precious and adored wife of the late Harry of over 71 years, who died nine months ago. An Eishes Chayil to her daughters Sylvia Rombom, Suzanne Knobel and all of her family and friends who knew her. A woman whose participation in every sphere of synago
 SELMAN-Regina R. Esq., 10/15/97. Hollywood, FL/Spring Valley, NY. Wife of the late Dr. A.N. Selman. Dearly loved & respected by all of her relatives and friends. We will remember you forever.....Ted. Burial Sunday. Details: 914-356-8600       
 WOSK-Jean, of Smithtown, NY, beloved mother of Shari and Robert, and daughter of Florence Wanes, died of cancer on October 16, 1997. She will be dearly missed by all who knew and loved her. Services to be held on Sunday, October 19, at 12 Noon, at Sunset Chapel in Manhasset, New York.      
 Katherine B. Oettinger, an authority on the care and upbringing of children, who was head of the Federal agency for the care of handicapped and underprivileged children, died on Monday in Carmel, Calif. She was 94. Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the 
 Nancy Dickerson, who in the 1950's and 60's combined network television reporting with her role as a sought-after Washington partygiver and insider, died yesterday in New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old and maintained homes for many years both in Washington and New York.   
 BRAUN-Gladys (Schreiber), 97 years young, Tuesday, October 14. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo Braun. Treasured Mother of Phyllis Braun Leventhal and son-in-law Bernard. Adored and adoring Grammy of Lionel, Alexander and Evan Leventhal. Cherished darling big sister of Celia Levine, Sidney 
 DISTLER-Betsy, an extraordinary human being. The President, a Fellow, a Training Analyst and a Supervisor of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research. A creative person who was a source of love, a pillar of strength, and a well of understanding for her husband David, her sons 
 HANDLER-Miriam A. Age 82. Died on October 16, 1997 after a long illness. Cherished wife of Professor Milton Handler; devoted mother of Carole E. Handler; adored grandmother of Lisi and Lani Schoenbach; beloved sister of Milton Adler & Avivah Benamy; beloved aunt of Dr. Daniel Adler, Denise 
 HOBSON-Elizabeth S. Died on October 1 in San Diego, at ninety. Following WW II, she left Hungary to join her mother and brothers in America. Throughout life, she had a thirst for knowledge: reading voraciously, traveling extensively, studying until recently at the New School. She marveled a
 INGBER-Anna Harris passed away on Wednesday, October 15, 1997 in Los Angeles, California. She was 93 years old and the wife of the late Nathan Ingber. She will be remembered by those she left behind for her unselfishness, her caring, her sense of humor, and her deep and passionate love for 
 KISTER-Hanna. Died on October 16, 1997 after a brief illness. She was the widow of Marian Kister, founder of Roj Publishers in Warsaw, Poland, and Roy Publishers in New York City, which they ran together. She is mourned by her daughters Mrs. Irene Lombroso of Cambridge and Mrs. Elizabeth Cl
 KOPLOWITZ-Gertrude Zelda Robinson Gold, January 16, 1914October 12, 1997, of River Vale, New Jersey, has passed on. Beloved wife to the late Harry Gold, then to the late Sol Koplowitz. She is survived by her loving daughter, Diane Gold Levitt, and grandchildren, Jaden and Janna Levitt. She 
 KRENIK-Helen (nee Heiling). Died at age 94 in Boynton Beach, FL. Devoted wife to the late Charles Krenik. Beloved mother to Paul, Betty and the late Henri. She is survived by her grandchildren Martine, Catherine, Corinne, Gordon, Gabrielle and Giselle and caring step-grandchildren Gerard an
 LEWIS-Sara Rose, died peacefully in Virginia Beach, VA., on October 17, 1997. Affectionately known as ''Rose'' to all who knew her, she was the loving wife of the late Harry Lewis. Rose is survived by her devoted daughter Margie Brotman, Margie's husband Bob, two grandsons David and Ira, th
 MILLER-Marion Edwards, 81. Loving wife of Professor Neal E. Miller, died of pneumonia in the Yale/New Haven Hospital on October 13. To us former students of Professor Miller at Yale and Rockefeller University (many of whom are now famous psychologists and neuroscientists), Marion was a grea
 MILLER-Zelda, October 17, 1997. She is survived by her daughter Stacey Dumain, her son Jeffrey Miller, her dear and devoted friend Julius Wittman, her granddaughters Emma and Rebecca Dumain, and by her niece Sandra Ball. She will be missed by them and by her many friends. Service Sunday, 11
 MOSES LESSER-Ethel, on October 13, 1997, who triumphed over all of life's battles except the last one. She will be missed by her loving family, Harry, Judith, and Anne, and by her many wonderful friends.       
 NANNI-Ethel. October 17, 1997. Beloved wife of Louis F. Nanni. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call on Saturday 7-9 PM and Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 ROSS-Mildred Berger. Beloved wife of Matthew H. Ross. Mother of Jane Ross, Alan and Eleanor Ross. Loving grandmother and adoring great-grandmother. A life filled with good works; among other activities she was the first woman President of Central Synangogue, Founder and first Director of Ce
 SILVERMAN-Ida. Beloved sister, sister-in-law, aunt and great aunt. She was loved by all who knew her. Died on October 9, 1997.       
 TYSZKIEWICZ-Alicia. Countess Tyszkiewicz. Born May 28, 1912, died October 8, 1997 at her home in New York City. Full of courage and true to her own high standards to the end. Mourned by her friends, Isabelle Cazeaux, Ruth M. Collins, Fernando Demarquet, Robert Hickey.       
 Joanne A. Moonan, a costume jewelry designer in the 1930's, 40's, 50's and 60's, died last Monday at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, her daughter, Wendy Lyon Moonan of Manhattan, said.        
 BLAKE-Esther. Born 7/12/1898, died 10/11/97. Loving wife of the late George Blake, she lived in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn until 1985, when she moved to Pound Ridge. She is survived by her children Olive Colon of VT, Marshall Blake of CT, Steven Blake of Pound Ridge, NY, eight grandchildren 
 DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are profoundly saddened by the loss of our beloved friend, Nancy Dickerson Whitehead, an esteeemd member of The Rockefeller University Council since 1989. Her loyal friendship to the university and her 
 GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Menek, died suddenly on October 18, 1997. Professor at NYU Medical Center. Beloved nephew of Frania Gitterman and Maria Rosenbloom. Loving cousin of Dr. Alex Gitterman and Dr. Hana Savir and their families. Devoted to dear friend Dr. Mira Dziatelowski and her family. Funeral o
 LEAF-Ethel V. Loving wife of George. Devoted mother of Suzanne and Harold Greenberg, and adoring grandmother of Deena and Robert Mandel. She will be sorely missed. Services Monday, October 20, 10 AM, at Riverside Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY.       
 ROCKOFF-Gail. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and member, Gail Rockoff, and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband, Clyde and their family. Norman Ricken, President  
 TURKEL-Gazella. Three sons, Harold, Joseph, and David, sadly announce the death of our beloved mother on October 16, 1997. Her 98 years were blessed with a loving husband, children, and grandchildren. She has earned her rest in the arms of God.       
 TYSZKIEWICZ-Alicia, Countess Tyszkiewicz. Born May 28, 1912, died October 8, 1997 at her home in New York City. Full of courage and true to her own high standards to the end. Mourned by her friends, Isabelle Cazeaux, Ruth M. Collins, Fernando Demarquet, Robert Hickey.       
 ABRAMSON-Sara. 98-1/2. Mother of Robert and Joan, grandmother of Dianita, Jane, Steven, Laura, Evan and Lauren. Great grandmother of Yesica, Sally, Kathleen, Jessica, Jill, Samuel and Jacob. Legendary teacher of ''fours'' at Little Red Schoolhouse. She dedicated her life to teaching and tol
 BILLING-Claire, of Great Neck, NY, on October 19, 1997 at the age of 74. Beloved wife of Harold Billing. Loving mother of Jonathan, Mitchell, Lee. Adoring grandmother of Julie, Melissa, Jennifer, Amy. She will be missed by all of her family and friends. Graveside service Tues., Oct. 21, at 
 BLUESTONE - Beatrice. The Board members and entire staff of the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center extend their deepest sympathy to our esteemed Executive Director, Donald Bluestone; his brother, Barry, and their entire family for their loss. She dedicated her heart to family and community
 BREWER-Louise H., died on October 19, 1997 in Hamden, CT. A longtime resident of New York City, she lived at 235 E. 22nd Street. Through her acquaintance with Eleanor Roosevelt in the late 1940's, she was inspired to a lifelong commitment to politics and activism. She worked for numerous De
 DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Directors, staff and national membership of the United Nations Association of the United States of America (UNA-USA) are deeply saddened by the passing of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our esteemed Chairman, the Hon. John C. Whitehead. We are grateful for he
 DISTLER-Betsy. IPTAR, the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, mourns the untimely death of our President. She was a strong, committed advocate for psychoanalysis and especially for the understanding of female identity conflicts. We will miss her warmth and her steadfast voic
 EILEN-Adele. Died Sunday, October 19, 1997. Adele valiantly fought Parkinson's Disease for 31 years and finally lost. She will be greatly missed by her husband, Arthur; daughter and son-in-law, Sherry and Henry Krostich, and grandchildren, Seth and Wendy, and sister, Evelyn Gold, and many, 
 GOLDENBERG-Harriet. Hineni expresses heartfelt sympathy to our distinguished member, Ellen Fawer on the passing of her dearly beloved mother, Harriet Goldenberg, a true Aishes Chayil. Our condolences to her grandchildren, her son Stuart Sloame and her brother Jules Cohen. May they be comfor
 GRATZ-Sylvia On October 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Devoted mother of Sandra and Louis. Loving sister of Helen Perlmutter. Cherished grandmother of Elana, Michael and Donovan and great grandmother of David and Danielle. Services Tuesday, 12:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th 
 HAUSMAN-Barbara. Employees, managers and partners of Combined Container Industries note with sorrow the passing of Barbara Hausman, wife of retired partner Arthur Sidney Hausman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Combined Container Industries       
 LEFFLER-Blanche. On Oct 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Steven and Robert. Loving mother-in-law to Carolann and Susan. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Her presence will be deeply missed.       
 SLEWETT-Evelyn. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the devoted sister of our dedicated benefactors, Minnie Lieberman and Leon Miller and beloved aunt of our AMIT Scholarship Dinner Honorees Mindy and Howard Miller. A woman of noble spirit and character, Evelyn Slewett exemplified her
 WHITEHEAD-Nancy Dickerson. October 18,1997. Beloved wife of John C. Whitehead, devoted mother of Elizabeth Earls, Ann Pillion, Jane Dickerson, Michael Dickerson, John Dickerson, Anne Whitehead, Gregory Whitehead, Robert Chartener and Sarah Whitehead. Loving sister of Mary Ellen Phillip. Che
 Pilar Miro Romero, a pioneering female director of movies and television who also fostered Spain's film industry by introducing state aid for promising young filmmakers when she served in the Socialist Government of the 1980's, died at her home here on Sunday. She was 57. She collap
 BARASCH-Betty Gadas, 104, of West Palm Beach, FL and formerly of the Bronx. She was preceded in death by Abe Barasch, her first husband of 50 years, and Abe Gadas, her second husband of 12 years. Beloved mother of Phyllis and Marvin Barasch, Helen and the late Norman Barasch. Loving grandmo
 COHEN-Dorothy Q. October 20, 1997, of Somers, NY. Wife of Joel for 55 years, mother of Loraine Wilson, Peter and David Cohen, sister of Russell, Donald and Lee Quaintance, grandmother of Peter, Jr., Natasha and Sarah Cohen and Thomas and Kathryn Wilson, great-grandmother of Vanya Cohen. Rep
 DICKERSON-Nancy. The members of the board of trustees and staff of Carnegie Corporation of New York express their profound sorrow over the loss of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our former trustee John C. Whitehead. An extraordinarily gifted journalist, with a vibrant intelligence and acu
 FEILER-Celia G. On October 21, 1997, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry B. Feiler. Loving mother of Robert (Lillian) Feiler and Paul (Marcia) Feiler. Cherished grandmother of Susan, Diane and Pamela. Services are today, October 22 , 10 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Stre
 GOLDENBERG-Harriet. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of Harriet Goldenberg, the beloved sister of our dear friend and benefactor, Jules Cohen. May Jules and the entire family derive solace from inspiring memories and their devotion to the Jewish commu
 HARTLEY-Lena Elizabeth Boykin. Beloved mother of Pat and grandmother of Smokey D. Fontaine who lived a fearless life of joy, struggle, and love without compromise. She will be missed by a family who lived to make her proud. A memorial service will be held at the Society for Ethical Culture,
 KAYE-Frances. Of Miami Beach and Saratoga Springs, New York. An elegant and gracious woman of valor, compassionate and held with great love by her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Loved by countless friends and family. Burial Sunday, 3 PM, Saratoga Springs, NY. Shiva at the 
 KRUEGER-Pearl. The Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Pearl Krueger, a devoted member and dedicated volunteer of the Information & Referral Service. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Ruth Saporta, President Mary Goldsmith,
 LEVENSON-Ruth A. Those at Columbia University's Heyman Center for the Humanities and the Society of Senior Scholars express their great sense of loss at the death October 18 of our colleague and friend Ruth A. Levenson, former Associate Director of the Center. Her intelligence and energy en
 LINDLEY-Audra. Died from complications of leukemia October 16, Cedar Sinai Hospital, Los Angeles, CA. Survived by 2 daughters, Dr. Elizabeth Blalock of California and Alice Ulm of New York, one son, William Ulm of California, and 7 grand children. Two children preceded her in death. The fam
 MARENGI-Henry A. ''Hank'' of Peabody, MA., and West Harwich, MA., October 20. Husband of Nancy (Carr); father of Peter A. of NYC, Paul H. of Hampton, N.H., Lisa A. Sherr and her husband Robert of Lynnfield, MA., and Mary F. of Newbury, MA. Funeral from Solimine Landergan & Rhodes Funeral Ho
 MICHAELIAN-Mary A. Died on October 16, 1997 at the age of 97. Beloved aunt of George L. King and great aunt of George L. King III, Pamela Parmenter, the late Victoria King, Jason Sumner, William T. Sumner, Katherine Sumner Bacon, and their children. Her parents John and Tevrez Michaelian em
 BAXTER - Theodora Tuomey, Lady of The Holy Sepulchre, on October 21, 1997 in Princeton, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Robert Byrne Baxter and dear mother of Anne B. Humes, Elaine B. Tracy, brother Robert B. Baxter OFM, Conv, Julie Baxter, William E. Baxter, Clare Baxter, Margaret B. Helmig a
 BERCOVITCH-Hanna M. The officers, directors, and staff of The Library of America are deeply saddened by the death of their colleague, Hanna M. Bercovitch, who served as editor-in-chief for many years and contributed greatly to the organization's mission. Her devotion to books and to America
 EISENSTEIN-Ruth Richards, 91, at home Tuesday, October 21, 1997. Senior Editor at Harry N. Abrams, Inc., founding member Manhattan Reconstructionist Havurah and West End Synagogue. Remembered with love by children and their spouses, Paula Eisenstein Baker & Stephen D. Baker, Hester Eisenste
 GARAVANI-VILLANI-Wanda, beloved sister of Valentino Garavani, passed away suddenly in Paris on October 20, 1997. She played an important role in the organization that benefits children with AIDS called L.I.F.E., which was founded by Valentino Garavani and Giancarlo Giammetti. In addition to
 KAYE-Frances. Of Miami Beach and Saratoga Springs, New York. An elegant and gracious woman of valor, compassionate and held with great love by her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Loved by countless friends and family. Burial Sunday, 3 PM, Saratoga Springs, NY. Shiva at the 
 KERNAN-Leslie Hadden on October 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Walter Avery Kernan; mother of Anita Halton, Mary Rutherfurd, Emily Rafferty, Nancy Chamberlain, Beatrice and Charles; grandmother of Anita Halton; Leslie Coleman, Lily and Emily Rutherfurd, Nicholas and Sara Rafferty, and K
 Ann Devroy, the White House correspondent for The Washington Post who was known for her assertiveness and digging, died today. She was 49 and lived in Washington. The cause was cancer, the Post said. A veteran political journalist who covered four Presidents, Ms. Devroy had 
 BRONHEIM-David. The lawyers and staff of Rosen & Reade, LLP are deeply saddened by the sudden death of David Bronheim, loving father of Elizabeth Bronheim Semler, one of our associates. We send our heartfelt sympathy to Elizabeth, her brother Jeffry and all the members of their family.     
 DICKERSON-Nancy. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Center for the Study of the Presidency mourn the passing of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our former trustee, John C. Whitehead. This Center has long recognized Nancy's brilliant contributions to public policy, beginning as a r
 LAMB-Susan, LCSW, 61, a psychotherapist in private practice and with Jewish Family Service of Union County, died on October 22nd at her home in Plainfield, New Jersey, after a long illness. Mrs. Lamb was a licensed clinical social worker and a graduate of Hunter College, Columbia University
 SUBKOFF-Dorothea Bary. On October 21, 1997 at home. Beloved sister of Leona, James and Jeanne. Devoted aunt of Richard and Clair, Michael, David and Reva, Jeffrey and Margaret, Andrew and Karen, and great-aunt. A New York City school teacher for many years, Dot was bright, spirited and had 
 TISCHLER-Esther. Of Somerset, New Jersey, formerly of NYC, died October 22, 1997. She retired from the U.S. Corps. of Engineers after 35 years. She is survived by her sisters Ann Newman and Ruth Piltz Bell and many nieces and nephews. Graveside services are Friday, King Solomon Cemetery, Cl
 Audra Lindley, who starred on Broadway, in films and in more than 100 live television dramas but who gained her greatest fame playing a sex-starved wife in the television series ''Three's Company'' and its spinoff, ''The Ropers,'' died on Oct. 16 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She
 Hanna M. Bercovitch, the founding editor of the Library of America, died on Monday at her son's home in Madison, Wis. She was 63. She died of lung cancer, her family said in a statement. Ms. Bercovitch joined the Library of America in 1980, shortly after the nonprofit publis
 CURTIN-Claire M. Of Bronxville, N.Y. on October 24, 1997. Devoted wife of Brian J. Curtin, M.D. Beloved mother of Edward, James, Thomas Curtin and Deirdre Hommel. Dear sister of Joan Snyder, Dorothy Flynn, M.D., Eileen Ronan and Ann McSherry. Treasured grandmother of Brian Hommel. She brigh
 DOYNO-Shirley Peiser. After a brave struggle with cancer, on October 23, 1997. Beloved mother of Barry and the late Donna. Cherished mother-in-law of Ruthy. Adored Nana of Stefan and Justin. We will always love her with all our hearts and were all blessed to have been loved by her. She was 
 GINSBERG-Estelle Rae Sklower. Widow of Samuel Ginsberg, died Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital, Passaic, at the age of 104. Beloved mother of Miles David and Dulcie Freeman; grandmother of Steven, Amelia and Heidi David, and Sheila Freeman Fung, Eve Freeman Kogan, Bill Freeman and Joel Freem
 Evelyn Slewett, a founder of the National Parkinson Foundation and supporter of numerous charitable organizations, died Oct. 14 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. She was 87 and lived in Miami. The cause was cancer, the foundation said. Mrs. Slewett, a native of New York
 ASCH-Esther. Devoted wife of the late Alexander. Beloved mother of Arthur and Anita, Jerry and Marianne. Adoring grandmother to Lisa, Michael and Toni, Jonathan, Michelle and Larry Diamond, Jenny and Michael Fenton. Greatgrandmother of Alexis, David, Sarah, Noah and Jake. Loving sister of R
 DIAZ-Gloria. On October 25, 1997. Beloved mother of Coco Morris, Ketty Pelaez and Tina Ramirez. Devoted grandmother of four and great-grandmother of three. For over fifty years, Gloria was dedicated to improving the quality of life for New York's Puerto Rican community. Her family will miss
 LOWE-Violet Lucille Smith. Beloved sister of Shirley Cooke and Hortense Thompson. Passed away October 19, 1997. She was a graduate of Hunter College, a Girl Scout leader, choir member, member of the Lions, St. Fathaith Guild, Cursillo and the Episcopal Church Women. She was a former health 
 SCHWARTZ-Rose R, 88. Suddenly on Oct. 19, 1997. A native of New York City, graduate of Hunter College and The Columbia University School of Social Work. Her thesis at Columbia was titled ''Working Mothers.'' She was Director of Professional Services for both The Family and Children Society 
 ULMAN-ROY-Sunshine, August 3, 1997, 101. Beloved wife of Robert C., sister of David, Jane, and Samuel. Best friend of Ida. Lawyer for the needy; integrity her religion, compassion her philosophy. She will be missed. Her ashes rest beside her husband on Mount Hope, Hastings-on-Hudson.       
 BUXBAUM-Etta. Died peacefully on October 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Jack Buxbaum. Loving mother of Mark and Howard Buxbaum. Cherished sister of the late Pauline Millman, the late Sam Bernstein, Reuben Bernstein, Jack Bernstein, David Bernstein and Eileen Labrys. Loving grandmother o
 HO-Betty Jane, died October 24, 1997, at Mary Manning Walsh, Manhattan, age 73, following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Norman Ho, she is survived by her daughter Dr. Ann Ho of Manhattan, her granddaughter Cheryl Andrews of Tarrytown; her brother Russell F. Anderson of Manhattan;
 MALONEY-Claire M. October 23, 1997. Mother of Owen Smigelski. Survived also by her sisters Patricia Maloney and Eileen Jones, her brother William and six nieces and nephews. Interment will be private, a memorial gathering will be announced.       
 RAPPAPORT-Reta. On October 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Meyer. Devoted daughter of Doreen Rappaport. She was a talented, powerful woman. Graveside services Tuesday, 11 AM, at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, New York. For information, call Riverside-Nassau North Chapels 516-487-9600.  
 REES-Mina S. October 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Brahdy. Devoted aunt of Dorothy Halpin. Cherished great-aunt of Suzanne Schmitz, James, Kevin and Paul Halpin. A memorial service will be held at a later date at the City University of NY Graduate School. REES-Mina S. T
 PRINZ-Nancy. John Wiley & Sons stands out as an extraordinary caring company that kept its faith with Nancy during seven years of illness. It wasn't merely securing the job she loved despite frequent absences for treatment, but giving her support and hope. The company and her loving colleag
 Dr. Mina S. Rees, a mathematician who broke new ground for women as a university administrator and a leader in the sciences, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. She was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side. At home in abstract and applied mathematics, Dr. Re
 BIENENFELD-Tessie. October 24, 1997. Loving wife of the late Julius Bienenfeld. Adored mother of Stanley and Evelyn, Audrey and Max Wagner, Marilyn and Jack Roth. Devoted sister of Mildred Needle of Del Ray Beach, Florida. A gracious lady devoted to her children, her 11 grandchildren, 37 gr
 CANTOR-Ida Kallet. Age 94. Ida was the most adored person we have ever known. Loved and admired for her gentle disposition and good heart. She went through life helping others with her wise advice and kind smile. She thought of others first and last. Ida, grandma, mother, mother by marriage
 FEINBERG-Charlotte. Age 82. Died October 26 after suffering from Alzheimer's Disease for several years. She lived for many years in Des Moines, Chicago, New York City and Florida. She is survived by her devoted husband Milton, loving daughters Susan Farber Ganz and Linda Graev and three gra
 IOGHA-Elizabeth. On October 23, 1997. Loving daughter of Mary; devoted sister of Don and Frank. She was in the publishing and editing business.       
 PRINDLE-Florence. The Board of Trustees, and faculty past and present, of the Ethical Culture Fieldston School note with sorrow the passing of Florence Prindle, teacher of art in the Fieldston Lower School from 1962-1987. Her thoughtful involvement in the life of the school was immense. Chi
 SCHENKER-Lucille. On October 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Devoted mother of Susan and Martin. Dear mother-in-law of James Monaco and Sonja. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Charles, Margaret, Cathy and Henry. Services Tuesday, 11 A.M., at Village Temple, 33 East 12th Street, New Y
 STEIN-Ruth Pedolsky. Died on Sunday, October 26, 1997 in Corning, New York. Beloved wife of the late Spike Stein, mother of Jamie, Michael, and the late Peter Lincoln; grandmother of Julie, Katherine, Liam and Peter Seth. Services on Tuesday, October 28, at 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North 
 ZASLOFSKY-Ruth. On Friday, October 24, 1997. Wife of the late Samuel. Mother of Andy, Judy and Mary. Adoring grandmother of Samara. Friend, teacher, student, lover of life, she will be greatly missed. Memorial on November 2, 1997.       
 BARON-Phyllis Hoffman. October 27, 1997. Beloved mother of Carol Taylor Gray, Jennifer Brandt and her husband Gary and Robert Hoffman Taylor. Cherished grandmother of Eliza Lindsay Gray and Ally Hoffman Taylor. Loving sister of Lindley Hoffman. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her.
 CHEROUNY-Janet Little. 88. Died in Chatham, MA., on October 25. She was the widow of Arthur Stratton Cherouny who died in 1995. She is survived by two sons; Robert S. Cherouny of Round Hill, VA., Richard M. Cherouny of Canton, CT., a daughter, Cynthia C. Yeaw of Chatham, MA., a brother Robe
 CLODFELTER-Constance J. Suddenly, October 24, 1997. Beloved cousin of Gail Irvine and aunt of Katharine Sullivan, Elizabeth Smith, Patricia Irvine and Christine VanLeer. Also dear friend of Sally J. Kuhn. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Museum of Modern Art, New York. A memor
 FILLMAN-Susan. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Susan Fillman, our friend and longtime Board member. Her ideas and action were always inspiring. Her dedication to the community, especially to its youngest members, gave us focus. Although she is gone, her spirit will live on, 
 GANEK-Bessie, 95. Miami Beach, FL. Died October 28, 1997. Beloved mother of Howard and Judie Ganek. Loving grandmother of Tori, Danielle and David. Great-grandmother of Harrison and Nicholas. She will be missed by her whole family who loved her dearly.       
 HYLAND-Francine Miles. On October 27, 1997. Beloved wife of Thomas. Devoted mother of Jennifer and Thomas. Dear daughter of Frances Miles. Loving sister of Mary Theresa Jackson, Edward Miles, Michele Dunn and Christine Miles. Reposing at Fairchild Sons, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, New Yo
 LAZARUS-Elinor. The Board of Governors and Members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Elinor. On behalf of all Fairview members, we express our deepest condolences to her family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Judith Weil, Secretary L
 LEESON-Laura. On October 28, 1997. Aunt Laura to three generations of Schrader, Levkov and Kaufman children. Beloved and tolerated for her independence and outspokeness. A woman and artist, much ahead of her time. Still youthful and flirtatious at 99. Things will not be the same without her
 LEVEY-Minnie. Beloved friend passed away peacefully October 27, after a wonderful life with her late husband Jeffrey. Funeral at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, New Jersey, Wednesday, 2:30 PM. Deeply mourned by her friends, Hillel and Madeline Jaffe and Michael and Audrey Norwich.       
 MAGED-Gertrude M., 91. Died on October 8, 1997 in Suffern, N.Y., after a short illness. Graduated from Teachers College in 1925, became music teacher and supervisor in Nyack schools. Wife of Allen J. Maged. Very active in Rockland County community organizations. Returned to teaching in Rama
 REES-Mina S. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of Hunter College mourn the passing of Dr. Mina S. Rees, a 1923 Hunter alumna who became an internationally known mathematician and nationally prominent educator. A member of the Hall of Fame of our Alumni Association, Dr. Rees served the
 WILSON-Lucile McCauley. October 29, 1995. Remembered by her family.       
 Marian E. Koshland, an immunologist and professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley who studied the ways antibodies fight off disease, died on Tuesday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley. She was 76 and lived in Lafayette, Calif. The caus
 BIENENFELD-Tessie. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed member, Audrey Wagner, and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 GANEK-Bessie. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bessie Ganek, a beloved mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. Her son, Howard Ganek, is a dedicated leader and generous supporter of our Wall Street Division as a member of the Neuberger & Berman
 LEESON-Laura. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins with the leadership of its parent corporation Greater Metropolitan Health Systems (GMHS), Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Laura Leeson, beloved sister of our dear friend and benefactor Abe Schrader, a
 LEVY-Carol S. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Edgar I. Levy. Devoted mother of Liza Levy, Angela Carroll and Kristin Lizotte. Cherished grandmother of Jacklyn, Jennifer and Adam. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, November 2 at 4 PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at
 MONTVILA-Halina, Dr. Dr. Halina Montvila of Manhattan who had been Vice President of Bradford Computer Systems and McDonald Douglass Corporation died on October 26, 1997 in Danbury, CT. She was 79. Dr. Halina Montvila was born in Panevezys, Lithuania and graduated from Vilnius University in
 WEDGE-Sonia R. Longtime member of the New York Botanical Garden library staff, in her 96th year. Widow of the late New York Sun writer, Will Wedge. Loving mother of Eleanor and Nicholas Wedge; grandmother of Catherine Miranker, Elizabeth Wedge, and William T. Wedge; great grandmother of Emi
 BLUMBERG-Lorrie Norr. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Loving mother of Robert, Peter, Andrew and H. James Erdman. Also survived by two stepchildren, David and Susan Blumberg. Visitation on Saturday, 7-9 PM, at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, New Rochelle, NY. Servic
 FINE-Neta (Lamby). October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Martin Fine. Devoted mother of Fran and John Shanker and David and Sylvia Fine, and loyal friend of Joyce Dell. Cherished grandmother of Norman and Tabbie, Michael and Nancy, David and Aimee, Sue, Meredith, Jonathan, Debbie. Lovi
 KAUFMANN-Ethel. On October 30, 1997. Loving wife of the late Robert A. Kaufmann, beloved mother of Phyllis and Jerome Brown, cherished grandmother of Allison and Jennifer, adored sister of Ruth Kobritz, Florence Berliner, Herman Zuckerman, and the late Steve Zuckerman. She will be missed by
 KOSHLAND-Dr. Marian (Lafayette, CA). The Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee note with deep sorrow the passing of a distinguished researcher in immunology and cell biology, renowned expert in the study of antibodies, former head of the Department of Microbiology and Imm
 LEVY-Carol S. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Edgar I. Levy. Devoted mother of Liza Levy, Angela Carroll and Kristin Lizotte. Cherished grandmother of Jacklyn, Jennifer and Adam. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, November 2 at 4 PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at
 PRICE-Hedwig (Hattie). Beloved mother of Regina Fiorito Sokol, passed away peacefully in her 101st year October 28, 1997. Services Sunday 12:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
