 BERNSTEIN-Fay. In her 92nd year. Devoted wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother Naomi, Howard and the late Rachel. Dear mother-in-law of Paul Kronish, Marcy Bernstein and Alan Paul. Sister of Thelma, Sylvia and Helen. Mama Fay to her eight grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren. Her 
 CAVALLO-Betty Bernice, of NYC, on February 17th, 2000. She touched nothing she did not adorn. Survived by her beloved husband, Stefan (Steve), and her loving children, Stephen & wife, Pamella, Christopher and wife, Robin, and their children, Cristina & Stefanie. Services will be held at 11 
 SAYERS-Pauline C., 83, unexpectedly on February 29, 2000, deeply beloved and cherished mother of Lenore Sayers and Barbara and Charles Ducey: dear grandmother of Michael, Jessica, and Joanna Ducey: daughter of the late Rabbi J.X. and Sadie Cohen, also survived by many cousins and friends. A
 SHULTZ-Florence Reiser. Died peacefully on February 27, 2000, at the age of ninety-two. She was the wife of the late Irving Shultz, sister of the late Helen Sheller, and aunt of the late Ed Sheller. She is survived by her brother-in-law, Robert Sheller, and her nieces and nephews, Elly, Joh
 SINZER-Mary (nee Higgins) on Monday, February 28, 2000 of Glen Ridge, N.J. Loving wife of Dr. Joseph F. Sinzer. Cherished mother of Joseph of Cedar Grove, John of NYC, Marie Louise De Stefano of Short Hills and Michael of Mendham. Dear sister of Kathleen Cinotti of Naples, Florida, Thomas H
 WEINBLATT-Rosyln. Cherished wife of the late Marvin Weinblatt, beloved mother of Susan Weinblatt, Dr. Alan and Lisa Weinblatt, Buddy and Gwen Weinblatt, loving grandmother of Ananda, Michelle, and Lara. Dedicated special education teacher, retired. She bettered the lives of many and will be
 Jane Nickerson Steinberg, a former food editor of The New York Times, died Sunday at a hospital in White Sulphur Springs, Mont. She was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said a son, John R. Steinberg. As Jane Nickerson, she was food editor of The Times from 1942 to 1957
 Louisa Matthiasdottir, an exemplar of the strain of painterly representation that runs through the history of postwar American art, died Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y. She was 83 and lived in New York from 1942 until late 1999, when she moved to Delhi to live with her daughter
 ALLISON-Pamela E. February 28, 2000. Beloved daughter of Wana E. Barnett. She was a graduate of the Chapin School, Sarah Lawrence College and the University of Michigan Graduate School. Service Friday, March 3 at 10AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street.       
 BLATT-Pearl. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved mother of our most dedicated immediate Past President, Evelyn Blachor. Pearl Blatt was a special ''Woman of Valor'' whose charm, warmth, generosity and compassion helped thousands of AMIT children-in-need to grow and prosper
 CAVALLO-Betty Bernice, of NYC, on February 17th, 2000. She touched nothing she did not adorn. Survived by her beloved husband, Stefan (Steve), and her loving children, Stephen & wife, Pamella, Christopher and wife, Robin, and their children, Cristina & Stefanie. Services will be held at 11 
 FUCHS-Rhoda, died peacefully on March 1st. Beloved wife of Lazar. Loving mother of Linda and Yehuda Isaacs, Alan and Joan Fuchs, Tzivey and Arthur Friedman, Rachel and Abe Abittan. Dear sister to Phillip Fuchs, Rochelle Weiss and Gale Spira. Survived by many grandchildren and greatgrandchil
 GOODMAN-Rita, Vice President Emeritus, The Johnson Foundation, Racine, Wisconsin died February 28, 2000, in Sarasota, FL. She was preceded in death by her husband, Arnold Goodman. She is survived by three sons and daughter-in-law, David and Kazuko, Norman and Kathy, Andrew and Sharon; five 
 RADWELSKY - Clara. Devoted wife of the late William. Caregiving sister to her late brothers Phillip and Lou and surviving sister Shirley. Loving mother of Elaine Fund, and Harriet and Marty Radwell. Doting grandmother of Dale, Steven, Sandi, Jodi and Seth, and proud great grandmother of Eva
 SALZER-Hedwig. Died peacefully at home on February 29, 2000, at the age of ninety-five. Dear wife of the late Dr. Felix Salzer, and beloved aunt of J. Miguel Steiner, Anne-Catherine Quibell, Claude M. Steiner, Susanne Lindtberg Fankhauser, Bettina Lindtberg Bucher and Florian Baalcke. Cheri
 SHULTZ-Florence Reiser. Died peacefully on February 27, 2000, at the age of ninety-two. She was the wife of the late Irving Shultz, sister of the late Helen Sheller, and aunt of the late Ed Sheller. She is survived by her brother-in-law, Robert Sheller, and her nieces and nephews, Elly, Joh
 Nancy Binns Reed, a composer of musicals and operas, died on Saturday at her home in Burke, Va. She was 75. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Reed, who wrote some 250 compositions, ranging from songs to marches to operas, achieved her widest success with the 1953 pop 
 AMESBURY - Cecile Dudley passed away of natural causes on February 29, 2000 at the PA. Hospital. She was born in NYC and has resided in Cincinnatti, OH, Washington, DC, and for the past 38 years resided in Philadelphia. She is survived by her husband Walter Raleigh Amesbury Jr. Visitation w
 BILLICK-Susan G. Beloved sister and aunt, good friend and of giving spirit passed away on March 2, 2000. Susan was born in New York City on September 6, 1941. She is survived by her sister, Barbara Melamed, and her niece Jennifer Iannuzzi and husband, Dr. Christopher Iannuzzi, and friends. 
 COHEN-Ronda Reckseit Seibel, on March 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Maurice U. Cohen and the late Arthur Paul Reckseit. Loving mother of Deirdre Reckseit Miller and the late Fyrth Reckseit Fuchs; stepmother of Daniel, Jonathan and Amy. Cherished grandmother of Zachary and Morgan; step-grandmothe
 DESSAU-Irene R., passed away peacefully on March 1. She leaves her son and daughter-in-law, Alan and Marianna Oppenheimer; her daughter and son-in-law, Barbara and Jack Hartog, and five grandchildren, Michael, Jane and Jennifer, Jack and Anne, and seven great-grandchildren. She is survived 
 EDMISTON-Essie Green, art dealer to premier Black artists, and founding owner of Essie Green Galleries in Harlem, NY, on February 26, 2000. She leaves her loving husband, Sherman K. Edmiston, Jr., her devoted mother, Mary L. Green, two stepchildren, three grandchildren, seven sisters and br
 KHIMCHIACHVILI-Audrey, Princess, died in New York Sunday, February 27th, 2000 at the age of 90. Services were held Tuesday, February 29th. She is a loss to her family and all her friends.       
 LEW-Norma. The members of Memoria Activa (Active Memory) of Argentina sadly mourn the passing of their President and CoFounder. Valiant Norma led us in our fight to find truth and justice in the case of the AMIA Buenos Aires Jewish Community Center bombing in 1994. Norma miraculously surviv
 MALAMED-Marc. On February 29, 2000. Beloved soul mate of Marilyn O'Connell. Cared for and loved brother of Janis Agard and her husband James. Prominent teacher, vocal coach, director and accompanist. Visiting Friday 10am-12noon. Service Friday 12noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amst
 McCOY-Daisy V. On February 27, 2000. Beloved mother to Mary B., Charles H., Jr., and Charlesann McCoy. Also survived by one grandchild Noelani, brother William and sister Frederica, many nieces and nephews, son-in-law Joseph Zeller and loyal friend to many. She will be missed. Memorial serv
 REIS-Mildred (nee Rubin), Of East Hampton, New York City and Coconut Creek Fl. Devoted, loving wife to Rudy Reis, sister to Bernice Meyerson, and Rita Levey, and aunt to Robert (Bunny), Paul (Betsy), and Daniel Meyerson, and Frances and Eric (Hope) Levey, and stepmother to Susan Lyons and V
 RITCH-Minerva G. Born August 11, 1908 in Ansonia, Ct. Died March 2, 2000 in Hamden, CT. Preceded in death by her husband Edward Lewis Ritch. Loving mother of Dr. Robert Ritch of Manhattan and Dr. Paul S. Ritch of Milwaukee, WI. Also survived by her daughter-inlaw Dr. Marjorie Vukelich, gran
 SUOZZI-Joseph M. Of Glen Cove, N.Y., London, England and formerly, Tokyo, Japan. Unexpectedly on February 25, 2000. Devoted husband of Marea and loving father of Maggie and Patrick. Cherished son of Judge Joseph A. and Marguerite Suozzi and son-in-law of Dr. Anne Grosso and Dr. Joseph E. Mu
 Essie Green Edmiston, an art dealer who represented many 20th-century African-American artists through her Harlem gallery, died on Feb. 26. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was bladder cancer,  said Sylvia Hueston, a friend. Mrs. Edmiston began showing art in her
 ADLER-Beatrice Ross. On March 2, 2000. Age 88. Wife of the late Benjamin Adler. Mother of Betsy Picket, Susan Bers, Pamela and Jane. Grandmother of Stacey and Craig Picket, Alice and Diane Bers, and Benjamin Andre. Private family services. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Benj
 AUSTIN-Mary, 85, of Columbus, OH, formerly of New York City, passed away Friday, February 25, 2000 at Mt. Carmel West. The cause was complications following open heart surgery. She had been a resident of Kensington Place at the Columbus Lutheran Village since 1995. Mary worked for the Natio
 HOPPENFELD RESIKA - Elsa. March 2, 2000. Adored mother of Carol and husband Howard Hillman, loving grandmother to Molly Mehlsack, beloved aunt of Barbara Mehlsack, Herbert and Jeannette Spiegel, Beaty Evin, Lili Spiegel, Sol Spiegel, Shirley Sklar, Diana Katz, and many loving Hoppenfeld nie
 JAROS-Elsie H. Age 92. On March 2, 2000. Loving and beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and great aunt. Elsie was the widow of Murry H. Levine, M.D. She later married John J. Jaros. Her children are Elizabeth Levine Jaros Biers (Martin H. Biers, M.D.) and Edwin J. Jaros (Sheila 
 MORRISON-Estelle Butler, of Larchmont, NY, on March 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Joshua Morrison, mother of Alan Butler Morrison and Peggy Morrison Horan, mother-in-law of Anne Scherck Morrison and Richard Horan. Grandmother of Nina Rauh Morrison, Rebecca Butler Morrison, Lucia Rose Mo
 ROSENSTEIN-Rita. On March 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted mother of Steven Rosenstein and Nancy Stone, Amy and Paul Adler and Sanford and Sari Rosenstein. Extraordinarily proud grandmother of Michael Rosenstein, Noah and Corey Adler, and triplets Lisa, Jake and Jon Rosenst
 SCHMELTZER-Eleanor, 86, died Wednesday in Rye Brook, NY. Born in Greenwich, CT on April 22, 1913 she was the daughter of the late Alexander and Clara S. Hall Dommerich and the wife of the late Robert Schmeltzer. She attended Greenwich Academy, Rosemary Hall and Mrs. Hall's School in Pittsfi
 Sandra Schmirler, the star of the first women's curling team to win an Olympic gold medal and one of Canada's most popular athletes, died Thursday in Regina, Saskatchewan. She was 36. She died of cancer, the Canadian Curling Association said. Known as Schmirler the Curler, S
 HOPPENFELD RESIKA-Elsa. Although I had the priviledge of knowing you for a relatively short span of your remarkable 88 year journey, I grew to respect, admire and love you as I have few others. It is said that when a person dies, a library burns down; in your case, Elsa, it's more like a un
 JAROS-Elsie H. Age 92. On March 2, 2000. Loving and beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and great aunt. Elsie was the widow of Murry H. Levine, M.D. She later married John J. Jaros. Her children are Elizabeth Levine Jaros Biers (Martin H. Biers, M.D.) and Edwin J. Jaros (Sheila 
 KERPEN-Rosalie. On March 3 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Oscar. Loving mother of Grace Wechsler and her husband Irving, and Ellen Cohen and her husband Edmond. Adoring grandmother of Susan Segal and her husband Kenneth and Nancy Cohen. Interment private.       
 MORRISON-Estelle Butler, of Larchmont, NY, on March 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Joshua Morrison, mother of Alan Butler Morrison and Peggy Morrison Horan, mother-in-law of Anne Scherck Morrison and Richard Horan. Grandmother of Nina Rauh Morrison, Rebecca Butler Morrison, Lucia Rose Mo
 RITCH-Minerva G. Born August 11, 1908 in Ansonia, Ct. Died March 2, 2000 in Hamden, CT. Preceded in death by her husband Edward Lewis Ritch. Loving mother of Dr. Robert Ritch of Manhattan and Dr. Paul S. Ritch of Milwaukee, WI. Also survived by her daughter-inlaw Dr. Marjorie Vukelich, gran
 SCHIFFMAN-Susan Mary, R.N., 45, of Aliso Viejo, CA, died February 25, 2000. Survived by her husband, George L. Schiffman, M.D.; her children, Joseph, Rachael and Rebecca; her sisters, Lynn Drake and Katie Newlon; her parents, Robert and Rosemary Newlon. A memorial service was held Tuesday, 
 SCHMUGER - Helene. Beloved wife of the late Morris W. Schmuger. Loving mother of Connie Greenberg, Sheila Zemsky, Carol and Lawrence Krug, Steven and Lynne Schmuger. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother, dear sister. Her profound dignity, gentleness and loving kindness is the foundat
 SELIG-Ruth Boshwit. Wife of the late Herbert Selig. Resident of North Miami Beach, FL, and formerly resident of Englewood, NJ, died February 26, at age 98. She is mourned by her loving cousins and friends. Memorial services were held Wednesday, March 1, at Riverside Gordon Chapel, North Mia
 STANTON-Mildred (nee Gilman) Scher. 93, of Hollywood Beach, FL. Formerly New York. Passed away February 28, 2000. Wife of the late Daniel Scher and Seymour Stanton. Devoted mother of Robert and Evelyn, Harold, Sara-Jane and Peter. Adoring grandmother of Julie, Daniel, Laurie, Dylan and Dani
 STRAUS-Martha (Turim). Loving beloved wife of the late Eli Straus, died Saturday at home. At her 100th birthday party, July 16, 1999, surrounded by a few dozen of her four generations of admiring nieces and nephews, she recalled that she had enjoyed ''living it my way,'' recommended her ind
 Janet Reed, whose comic gifts and sparkling technique made her one of American dance's most beloved ballerinas in the early years of American Ballet Theater and New York City Ballet, died in Seattle last Monday. She was 83 and lived in Seattle. She suffered a stroke one week earlier
 BERNSTEIN-Berta. Beloved wife of William. Passed away on the 28th of Adar, 5760. Loving mother of Henny and Rabbi Pynchas Brener, Evelyn and Manny Gross, Nathan and Rachel Bernstein and Dr. Celia Bernstein Waldman. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral services were held Sund
 CHRISTENFELD-Ruth Eleanor (Dickman). Died March 4, 2000. Beloved mother of Sharyn (Dickman) Frankel and Stuart Frankel. Cherished grandmother of Hilary Frankel Cooper and Richard Cooper, Jeffrey Frankel and Cynthia (Viole) Frankel, and Andrew Frankel and Shawn (Freed) Frankel. Adored great-
 COHEN-Estelle. Beloved daughter of the late Louis and Ida Kroman. Devoted and loving wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Loving and beloved mother of Stephen (Linda), Paul (Merri). Beloved grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Serv
 FORD-Mary Chesnut. Age 98, on February 18, 2000 at her home in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Born August 23, 1901 Baltimore, Maryland, daughter of Federal Judge W. Calvin Chesnut and Florence E. Carroll, widow of Malcolm Webster Ford, Jr. She was a cum laude graduate of Bryn Mawr College and 
 PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. Madelyn Phillips passed away peacefully and comfortably in her home last Friday, March 3. Born in 1905, raised in Brooklyn, and educated at Cornell and Adelphi. She married Seymour J. Phillips in 1924. She was a helpmate to her beloved husband throughout his business car
 SOSNOWITZ-Hilda S. Born January 6, 1922, in Greeneville, TN, died March 4, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Daughter of Morris and Mollie Aron Snyder, widow of Leroy Sosnowitz, and deeply loved mother of Linda Sosnowitz and Alex Gelinas, Mark E. Sosnowitz and Jan Sosnowitz and John Tomkins. Grandmo
 WARREN-Mildred. 84, passed away peacefully on March 3. A native of New York City. She is survived by her husband of 59 years, Al. Also surviving are her children Robert Warren and Linda Greenberg, son-in-law Richard, four grandchildren, Danielle, Amos, Matthew and Jason, and two sisters, Ma
 ADLER-Beatrice. The Board of Governors and Members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Beatrice Adler, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 BERNSTEIN-Berta. We extend our heartfelt condolences to William Bernstein and Henny Brener, on the passing of their beloved wife and mother. As a Golden Founder of the Medical Center, together with her husband, she was a graceful, dignified and modest woman, who personified the highest stan
 CHRISTENFELD-Ruth. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Ruth Christenfeld. Beloved mother of Sharyn Frankel. We extend condolences to Sharyn and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand, Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, Pres.       
 COHEN-Estelle. Beloved daughter of the late Louis and Ida Kroman. Devoted and loving wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Loving and beloved mother of Stephen (Linda), Paul (Merri). Beloved grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Serv
 GENGLER-Marjory Jeanne Logan. Of Locust Valley, L.I. Peacefully, on Monday, March 6, 2000 in her 81st year. Beloved wife of the late Herbert B., cherished mother of Herbert B., Jr. of Knoxville, TN, Marjory G. Smith of Hilton Head Island, SC, Louise D. of Princeton, NJ, John L. of South Sal
 LEONE-Mary. On March 6, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late Carmine and Ottavia Lupiani. Devoted and loving wife of John, her husband of 58 years. Devoted and beloved mother of Robert and Russell. Dearest ''Mimi'' to her granddaughters Allegra & Ursula. Calling hours Wednesday, March 8, 2-9:
 McGERR-Rita. The Trustees, faculty and administration of Riverdale Country School deeply regret the passing of Rita McGerr, our respected colleague and friend, and extend our sympathies to her children, Celia Regan and Michael McGerr. Part of the school family for 50 years, she came to teac
 MEINWALD-Rose. Age 89. On March 6, 2000. Loving mother of Linda Gold and Barbara Meinwald. Beloved grandmother of Adam, Michael and Steven Gold. She will always be remembered for her loyalty to her numerous lifelong friends and family, her intuition, sense of humor, sweet beauty and love of
 PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. The family and friends will gather at her home to celebrate her life Thursday, March 9, between 5-7 PM. PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. The Board of Directors, Officers and associates of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation mourn the passing of Madelyn S. Phillips, the widow of o
 REDIKER-Mae.The Board of Governors and members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of Mae Rediker. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest condolences to her family Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary       
 SOSNOWITZ-Hilda S. Born January 6, 1922, in Greeneville, TN, died March 4, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Daughter of Morris and Mollie Aron Snyder, widow of Leroy Sosnowitz, and deeply loved mother of Linda Sosnowitz and Alex Gelinas, Mark E. Sosnowitz and Jan Sosnowitz and John Tomkins. Grandmo
 VAVAGIAKIS-Anna on March 6, 2000 in Chania, Crete. Funeral at St. Evangelistra Church in Chania on Wednesday, March 8th. She is survived by her husband John; sons Efstratios, Costa and Peter; grandchildren Eve Marie and John Lucas. A forty day memorial service will be held in Queens, time a
 XIE-Xide. We will miss our beloved Madame Xie or ''Hilda'' as she was known to many of her friends. She passed away Saturday night in Shanghai, China at the age of 79. Madame Xie was President of Fudan University in Shanghai. She graduated from Smith College, received her Ph.D. in physics a
 Veronica Cooper Converse, the widow of the actor Gary Cooper, died on Feb. 16 at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. Ms. Converse married Mr. Cooper in 1933. After his death in 1961 she married Dr. John Converse, a plastic surgeon, who died in 1981. Known as Rocky, Ms. Cooper
 Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, an author whose ability to recreate the sensibilities of a child informed many well-loved books she wrote for young readers, died on March 1 at her home in Washington. She was 86. Beni Montresor illustrated Mrs. de Regniers's ''May I Bring a Friend?'' (1
 COHEN-Estelle. Beloved daughter of the late Louis and Ida Kroman. Devoted and loving wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Loving and beloved mother of Stephen (Linda), Paul (Merri). Beloved grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Serv
 GENGLER-Jeanne Logan. Of Locust Valley, L.I. Peacefully, on Monday, March 6, 2000 in her 81st year. Beloved wife of the late Herbert B., cherished mother of Herbert B., Jr. of Knoxville, TN, Marjory G. Smith of Hilton Head Island, SC, Louise D. of Princeton, NJ, John L. of South Salem, NY, 
 HILLMAN-Rachel. Bandler-Hillman deeply regrets the passing of Rachel Hillman, widow of co-founder Paul Hillman. We extend our deepest sympathies to her son Andrew and grandson Alexander.       
 LEONE-Mary. On March 6, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late Carmine and Ottavia Lupiani. Devoted and loving wife of John, her husband of 58 years. Devoted and beloved mother of Robert and Russell. Dearest ''Mimi'' to her granddaughters Allegra & Ursula. Calling hours Wednesday, March 8, 2-9:
 McGERR-Rita. On Friday, March 3 of Sleepy Hollow, NY. A believer in the power of education, she taught Literature for four decades. Wife of the late Gerald McGerr, daughter of Maria Fanelli of Southbury, Conn. and the late Charles Fanelli. Mother of Michael McGerr of Bloomington, IN., and C
 SMITH-Patricia Grantier. Peacefully passed away March 5th,2000 at Northern Westchester Hospital. Her endearing strength, guidance, love of random acts of kindness to all will forever be cherished by all who survived her. Lovingly and proudly we say good-bye, wishing her eternal peace. Life 
 BELLOCK-Florence. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Florence Bellock of Aventura, Florida, a long-time supporter of the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel. Together with her husband, she established th
 DELMAR-OBERTH-Alice (Cochran). Loving mother of John of NY, Ken of Stamford, wife of the late Kenny Delmar, twin sister of the late Ann Cochran. Passed away March 4, 2000, of natural causes in Stamford, Conn, surrounded by John and his wife Rebecca, and Alice's aides Mai and Lisa. She and h
 ELKIN-Rosalind. On March 6, 2000. Died suddenly at home. She was a social worker for many years for the City of New York and later with private social welfare agencies, including most recently Stanton House. She was loved and respected by all who knew her and a joy to those whose lives she 
 HELLER-Bertha. March 7, 2000. Retired teacher, wife of the late Isaiah Heller, mother of Judith Weber and Deborah Heller, grandmother of Jules Heller Roazen and Daniel Heller-Roazen. Loved by family and friends for her vitality, humor and generosity of spirit. Private funeral, memorial serv
 MODNE-Ida. On March 8, 2000. She will be missed by her family and friends. Graveside service on Friday, at 12:30 PM at Wellwood Cemetery, Pine Lawn, N.Y.       
 YOUNG-Jenni Munro. Of West Islip, NY, died on March 7 at Huntington Hills Nursing Home at the age of 81. She had previously suffered a severe stroke and speech loss. Born in Columbus, OH she attended Ohio State University. During WWII she held an administrative position at Grumman Aircraft.
 CAHN-Frieda. The Levkoff family is profoundly saddened by the passing of Frieda Cahn, devoted wife of Henry and beloved mother of our dearest friend, Marilyn and her sister, Barbara. Although she lived for many years in Cincinnati, we know her heart was always with her daughters and grandda
 ELKIN-Rosalind. On March 6, 2000. Died suddenly at home. She was a social worker for many years for the City of New York and later with private social welfare agencies, including most recently Stanton House. She was loved and respected by all who knew her and a joy to those whose lives she 
 KOENIGSDORF - HEINTZ - Joan, Ph.D. (nee Lampert), age 65, passed away on March 4, 2000 at her home in Kansas City. Loving wife of Jerry, devoted mother of Susan and Brian, dearest sister of Stanley and Roslyn, beloved aunt to Charles, Shari, Michael and Jonathan. Admired and loved by all.  
 SCHEIDER-Kathleen N. Passed away suddenly on March 8 at age 70. Beloved wife of Edward J. Scheider; sister of Elizabeth Jones of Kitchener Canada. She was a dedicated volunteer and patron at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for 35 years; a member of the Box Committee at the Brick Church and a
 SOSNOWITZ-Hilda S. Born January 6, 1922, in Greeneville, TN, died March 4, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Daughter of Morris and Mollie Aron Snyder, widow of Leroy Sosnowitz, and deeply loved mother of Linda Sosnowitz and Alex Gelinas, Mark E. Sosnowitz and Jan Sosnowitz and John Tomkins. Grandmo
 ANDREWS-Anne, 92, died on Tuesday in Maine. She lived in New York City with her husband Wolcott until 1972.       
 BERMAN-Eunice T. Beloved wife of Ronald Berman, daughter of Walter Soffer, loving mother of Theodore and Erica, died on March 9, 2000 after a long battle with breast cancer. Eunice was a Managing Director and group head of Taxable Credit Research at J.P. Morgan Securities. During her 30 yea
 BERNS-Julie. Widow of Leo Berns, passed away peacefully on March 9, 2000 after a long illness in El Paso, TX, her residence for the past twenty years. She is survived by her daughter Sharon Abrahams (Michael), her son Jay Berns (Shirley), three grandchildren Steffie, David and Heather and b
 COHAN-Ruth S. Beckett, 76, formerly of NYC passed away in Coral Gables, Florida on March 9, 2000. Ruth is survived by her beloved husband Louis K. Beckett to whom she was married for 20 years, her devoted children Madylon B. (Steven) Tiede, Lawrence (Sandy) Cohan, two brothers, one sister, 
 FLYNN-Ursula, age 87, died peacefully on March 5, 2000, at The Carolton in Fairfield, CT. Ursula had been a long time resident of Peter Cooper Village in NYC. Predeceased by her loving family, parents John and Mary McCabe Flynn, sister Vera Flynn, and brother David Flynn. She is survived by
 HAFT-Lillian Parker. In her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Joseph G. Haft. Adored mother of Elaine and Larry Kurtis, Marlene and Arnold Haft. Loving grandmother of Joanne and Billy Marks, Marilyn and Michael Kurtis and Chris Haft. Great grandmother of her ''sweeties'' Jason, Lissy, He
 HEYMANN-Doris Helene (nee Goldstein). March 4, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Devoted mother of Jo Fielder, Sausalito, CA and Michael William Heymann, Jerusalem. Loving motherin-law of Tova. Adoring grandmother of Alon. Cherished sister of Dan H. Laurence, San Antonio. Dear sister-in-
 KLEIN-Alison Rachel. On March 9, 2000 at the age of eighteen from osteogenic sarcoma. Ali is survived by her loving parents Robert & Martha, sister Hillary and brother-in-law Jay Beberman, brother Alex and sister-in-law Rachel Riddles, Grandparents, Dr and Mrs Alvin Mooney and Aunt, Deborah
 ODENHEIMER - Viola. Temple Shaaray Tefila is grieved to record the passing of its devoted and long time member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President       
 PERLBERG-Gertrude. In Palm Beach, FL, on March 9, at age 93. Beloved wife of 63 years to the late Fred Perlberg; daughter of Betty, and Isaac Ament, who died at age 106. Dear sister to Max Ament, deceased, she is survived by two older sisters, Anna Seidemann and Alice Blitzer, and one young
 SCHANE - Enridhetta ''Erica'' Gastelli, 71, of New Jersey passed away March 7, 2000 in Indiana. She was a Music Administrator of the Spoleto Festival in Charleston. She was born in Italy. A Memorial service will be held at a later date. For information: Deremiah-Frye Mortuary in Bloomington
 SCHEIDER-Kathleen N. Passed away suddenly on March 8 at age 70. Beloved wife of Edward J. Scheider; sister of Elizabeth Jones of Kitchener Canada. She was a dedicated volunteer and patron at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for 35 years; a member of the Box Committee at the Brick Church and a
 SLOTKIN-Bonnie. On March 8, 2000 of Potomac, MD. Adoring Mommy of David and Jon-her love for her boys was unconditional. Dearest mother-in-law of Sharon. Smitten MomMom of Jayme. Loving, selfless wife and best friend of Jay. Cherished daughter of Shayne and Harold. Beloved Ba-Ba of Melanie 
 ALTSTADTER-Gertrude (Trudy) nee Waldbaum. On March 4, 2000, age 70. Of Sunrise, FL, and formerly of Whitestone, NY. Loving wife of 44 years to Seymour, beloved mother to Eric and Meryl Altstadter, and Robin and Jeffrey Roude, devoted and cherished grandmother to Jonathan, Emily, Amanda, and
 ARPELS-Mherulisa (Malou). Died on February 16 in Switzerland. Beloved wife of the late Claude. Devoted mother of Claude Julien, Ariane, and Marisa. Cherished companion of Celal Yuksel. Dear friend of Therese Leplatois and Manolita Lopez - Visus. Her strength and generosity marked all who kn
 COOK FERRITER-Judith, accomplished educator, died March 1, 2000 in Palm Desert, California. She founded Edgemont High School's Alternative Education Program in Scarsdale, NY in 1978 and served as Director for seventeen years. She was a resident of Larchmont, NY for thirty-three years. Her i
 HAFT-Lillian Parker. In her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Joseph G. Haft. Adored mother of Helene and Larry Kurtis, Marlene and Arnold Haft. Loving grandmother of Joanne and Billy Marks, Marilyn and Michael Kurtis and Chris Haft. Great grandmother of her ''sweeties'' Jason, Lissy, He
 HEYMANN-Doris Helene (nee Goldstein). March 4, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Treasured daughter of the late Rhoda R. and Melvin M. Goldstein. Devoted mother of Jo Fielder, Sausalito, CA and Michael William Heymann, Jerusalem. Loving motherin-law of Tova. Adoring grandmother of Alon. 
 LEE-Maimie. March 6, 2000. Beloved sister of Patrick, Thomas, Clarence & Mailan Lee. Devoted aunt of Rupert Li, Michelle Lee and John Lee. Memorial service Tuesday, March 14, 1:00 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Contributions in her memory may be made to Jacob Perlow 
 MORRELL-Joan Vaughan, on March 7, 2000. Wife of James F. Morrell, M.D. of Blue Bell, PA. She was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Erasmus Hall and the College of New Rochelle. Long time resident of Garden City. Survived by son James G., of Garden City, daughters Margot of New York City, Ali
 PERLBERG-Gertrude. In Palm Beach, FL, on March 9, at age 93. Beloved wife of 63 years to the late Fred Perlberg; daughter of Betty, and Isaac Ament, who died at age 106. Dear sister to Max Ament, deceased, she is survived by two older sisters, Anna Seidemann and Alice Blitzer, and one young
 SCHEIDER-Kathleen N. Passed away suddenly on March 8 at age 70. Beloved wife of Edward J. Scheider; sister of Elizabeth Jones of Kitchener, Canada. She was a dedicated volunteer and patron at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for 35 years; a member of the Box Committee at the Brick Church and 
 SCHOENWIESNER - Gertrude. The Officers and Staff of Local 1102 RWDSU and UFCW mourn the loss of a dedicated trade unionist and a loyal and trusted friend. ''Trudy'' was loved and respected by her members and coworkers for her honesty, integrity and sheer hard work. Trudy's devotion to the c
 SCHWADRON - Marjorie (nee Claster). On March 10, 2000. At the age of 71. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Judith, Richard and Arthur Jr. Loving mother-in-law of Jay, Audrey and Michele. Devoted stepmother of Cathy, Lisa and Timothy. Cherished grandmother of Andy, Nancy, Ale
 SHEPARD-Jean McMillan. Founder, Studio Duplicating Service, a NYC institution for over 30 years. Painter, potter, sculptress, renovator, photographer and author of the 1977 novel ''Nobody Home''. Patron of the arts and animals. Preceded in death by longtime companion Robert McCrea Imbrie. S
 SMITH-Jean Weingast. Loving mother, sister, grandmother, great-grandmother and wife. She will be greatly missed. Her funeral is on Sunday, March 12, at 11:30 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY (914-664-6800). Contributions may be made to the Children's Cancer R
 SULLIVAN-Lea E., 83, of Sparkill, NY, formerly of Washington, DC. Died March 10, 2000, at New York Presbyterian Medical Center. Beloved wife of the late C. Meryl Sullivan and cherished mother of Maria A. Sullivan. She will be dearly missed for her courage, strength, and inimitable dry humor
 WALPIN-Ivy Lee. The bereaving parents and sister of Ivy Lee Walpin sadly and tearfully announce the cutting short of her life at 48. May God give her the peace and relief she sought and deserved from endless operations and failing health. Unfortunately, love could not ameliorate her pain an
 WILSON-Mai. On March 9, 2000; peacefully at age 95. Sister of Victor H. Wilson of Nashville, TN. Her life and work provide an adequate memorial.       
 Gertrude Sanford Legendre, an unlikely debutante of the 1920's who forsook society to become a big-game hunter and then to work during World War II for the Office of Strategic Services, predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency, died on Wednesday at Medway, her historic lantation near 
 Ingrid G. Brainard, a dance historian and teacher of historical dance, died on Feb. 18 at her home in West Newton, Mass. She was 74. The cause was a heart attack, said Tristram Perry, a spokesman for the Boston Conservatory, where Dr. Brainard taught. Dr. Brainard received a
 COTTER-Mary Virginia, C.N.D. Died at the Provincial Center of the Congregation of Notre Dame in Ridgefield, CT, on March 12. She is survived by two brothers, Robert of Trumbull, CT and Thomas of Sarasota, FL. She is predeceased by a brother, Jack. She was formerly Professor of Biology at No
 LEVINE-Mary. On March 11, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted mother of Ruth Turner and Jules. Adoring grandmother of Adam, Annie and Benjamin. We will all miss her dearly and she will remain part of our lives forever. Graveside services Monday, 11 AM, at the New Montefiore Cemet
 LIFSHUTZ-Frieda. Resident of the Sarah R. Neuman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck and formerly of Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Passed away Saturday, March 11, at the age of 100 years. She was predeceased by her husband Max and sons Charles and B. William Laudor. She also leaves her daughter-in-law R
 SCHEIDER-Kathleen N. Passed away suddenly on March 8 at age 69. Beloved wife of Edward J. Scheider; sister of Betty Jones of Kitchener, Canada. She was a dedicated volunteer and patron at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for 35 years; a member of the Box Committee at the Brick Church and a vo
 SCHOENWIESNER - Gertrude. The Officers and Staff of Local 1102 RWDSU and UFCW mourn the loss of a dedicated trade unionist and a loyal and trusted friend. ''Trudy'' was loved and respected by her members and coworkers for her honesty, integrity and sheer hard work. Trudy's devotion to the c
 WALLACH - Jacqueline Gold schmidt. March 12, 2000. Beloved mother of Eric and Marina, devoted grandmother of Katie, Emily, Jacqueline, Tory and Peter. Loving mother-in-law to Miriam and Daniel. As a former French national tennis champion, Jacqueline Wallach inspired her children and grandch
 WILSON-Mai. On March 9, 2000; peacefully at age 95. Sister of Victor H. Wilson of Nashville, TN. Her life and work provide an adequate memorial.       
 BRAUN-Stella. Longtime resident of Manhattan's East Side. Passed away peacefully on March 11. She was a beloved sister and aunt who gave tirelessly of herself to her many siblings, nieces and nephews. For over twenty years, she was the owner of a fashionable women's dress shop on Madison Av
 KALKER-Leona Ruttenberg of Williamstown, Massachusetts and Boca Raton, Florida, died on March 12, in her 93rd year. The first and last wife of the late Harry Kalker, she was a caring and delightful mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. In so many ways, her attitudes and perceptions we
 KAYE-Florence R. Of Brookville, LI, on March 11 in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late Arthur A.; daughter of the late Mortimer H. and Mae Luyster Rudyard; granddaughter of Florence Jackson Luyster and great-granddaughter of Thomas T. and Mary Clement Jackson of Glen Cove. Survived by o
 KORN-Amy S. Passed away in a tragic accident on Saturday, March 11, 2000 at age 46. Beloved wife and best friend of Richard; adoring mother of Daniel and Melissa; cherished daughter of Miriam and Shelly Newman; loving sister of Barry and Jane Newman and Andrew and Karen Newman; dear daughte
 NICHOLS-Eleanor G., a lifelong resident of New Rochelle died on March 12, 2000 at her home. She was 82. Ms. Nichols was born on December 2, 1917 in New Rochelle to the late Thomas and Bridget Nichols. Ms. Nichols was a retired editor for McGraw Hill for over 30 years. She retired 20 years a
 PERLBERG - Gertrude. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our longtime member, Gertrude Perlberg. We extend our sincerest sympathies to her family and friends. The Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 WOLFF-Lillian (nee Factor), formerly of North Bergen, New Jersey died on March 13, 2000. She was 86. For 40 years she worked as a bookkeeper & administrator for the Mackay Publishing Corporation. She was married to the late Marcus Wolff. Lillian is survived by her daughter-in-law, Susan Wol
 Barbara Cooney, an author and illustrator of children's books whose first work was published in 1940 and whose 110th, ''Basket Moon,'' appeared last fall, died on Friday at a hospital in Portland, Me. She was 83 and lived in Damariscotta, Me. Miss Cooney honored the admonition she a
 DANNHEISSER-Carol (nee Adler) passed away on March 13, 2000 in her 93rd year. She owned Carol's ABC Health Food Store for 30 years. Beloved wife of the late Fred. Devoted mother of Hans and Eileen. Loving grandmother of Lynn, Dyan and Gayle. Services Thursday, 11:15AM, at ''The Riverside,''
 HAZA-Ofra. The Yemenite Jewish Federation of America mourns the death of its 1998 honoree, Ofra Haza. May her memory be for a blessing. A memorial service will be held Sun., March 26, 7PM, in the main sanctuary of the Yemenite Minyan, Achvat Achim, 120 West 76th St., NYC. Please join us.   
 KAY-Cynthia. On March 13, 2000, (nee Zeidman) wife of the late Harold, daughter of Henrietta Zeidman, mother of David Kay and Jana Kay, also survived by her brother Woody Zeidman. Relatives and friends are invited to services Thursday, 10 A.M., Joseph Levine & Son, 7112 N. Broad Street, Phi
 KAY-Irene R. Quietly and with dignity on March 13. She left behind dear friends who cared for her during her brief illness. Born in England on March 26, 1918, she travelled widely before moving to Manhattan in 1954. After a long career in personnel and finance management, she became an acti
 KOTIN-Elaine J. On March 13, 2000. Beloved wife of Neil, loving mother of Debbie Insdorf and her husband Michael. Cherished grandmother of Brian and Peter, dear sister of Fran Herenstein, Roslyn Schlessel, and Arnold Neidle. Also survived by daughter, Loree Rosenthal and her children, Jon &
 LANE-Nora V., 84, died Saturday at The Medical Center at Princeton (NJ). Wife of the late Daniel J. Lane, she is survived by three sons, Daniel, Robert and Nathan and six grandchildren. Mass will be celebrated at 9:30AM today at Saint Paul RC Church, 214 Nassau Street, Princeton. Burial wil
 LOPATO-Sadie. Age 84. Of Matawan, N.J, Survived by her daughter, Donna Bialick, son Herbert, brother, Harry Goodman, sister Jeanette Ansis, grandchildren, Todd, Alan and Amy, and great grandaughter, Melanie. Services are today, 10:30 A.M. at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt 4 East, Pa
 ORGELL-Gail. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Gail Orgell, daughter of Myrtle Karp, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Executive 
 SEIDMAN-Pauline (Levin). Of Bloomfield, CT. Formerly of NYC and Stamford, Ct. Died March 13, 2000. Board member of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation for more than 40 years and a life Board member. She served as President of the Town League of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Cen
 FOX-Eleanor. Loving, beloved wife of George Fox. Loving mother of Nicki. Cherished grandmother of Zoe, Chad and Sarah. Mourned by her loving son-in-law James, cousins Florence, Paul, Ruth, Sam, Selma and Shirley. Great sons-in-law Josh and John & great daughter-in-law Deborah. Forever in ou
 FRIEDMAN-Debby. The Sh'or Yoshuv Institute, its Kehilla and greater Jewish community of Far Rockaway/5 Towns, mourn the passing of Mrs. Debby Friedman, cherished wife of our esteemed President, Maurice Friedman, and mother and grandmother, both to her children and grandchildren and the exte
 KRAUS-Kitty. The Board of Trustees of The Fire Island Synagogue mourns the passing of longtime member Kitty Kraus. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Kenneth.       
 RHEINISH-Frances T., of Hyannis Park, MA., died February 16 at her home after a long illness. She was a retired staff member of the United Nations Secretariat.       
 SHALAM-Vicky, aged 94, of Geneva, Switzerland, passed away peacefully on March 14. She was the beloved wife of the late Murad Shalam and the devoted mother of John, Jaqueline, Huguette and Claude. She was the adored grandmother and great-grandmother of 12. She was an incredible woman whose 
 SIEGEL-Pearl. On March 15, 2000. Beloved wife of Rabbi Reuven Siegel. Loving mother of Judy (Gil) and Arnon. Adoring grandmother of Alexandra, Tori and Sydney. Dear sister of Silvia Horowitz. Service Thursday 1:15PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue SIEGEL-Penny
 VENTURELLI-Helen. The Police and Fire Line of Duty Widows of NYC, Inc. records with sorrow the passing of our co-founder, Helen Venturelli. She served as our President with the utmost dedication and her wisdom, leadership and wit will be sorely missed by the members of the Board and the man
 WOOD-Ruth Cutting Wilmerding, 90, died peacefully at her New York City home on March 12, 2000. She was the daughter of Helen and Lucius Wilmerding and the granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Fulton Cutting, also of New York City. Her husband, Dudley P. K. Wood predeceased her. She is survi
 COHEN-Julia E. Peacefully on March 15. Sister of the late Murray Cohen and the late Yetta Cohen, she is survived by her nephew, Steven J. Cohen and by her many cousins, who loved her dearly and will miss her. The Postrel Family Circle       
 FRIEDES-Bernice. On March 16, 2000. Cherished mother of Michael, Renni and the late Tony. Loving mother-in-law of Sally and Fred. Adored grandmother of Harrison, Olivia, Amy and Nina. Beloved companion of Harold. Dear sister of Norman. Loving step-mother to Patti. Services will be held at R
 GLICKMAN-Anne L. 64, died March 16, 2000. She founded the Legal Aid Society in Rockland County NY, and was an Associate Professor of Law at Ramapo College in New Jersey. She is survived by her husband, Bernard, two sons and three grandchildren.       
 JAFFE-Elizabeth G. Most beloved daughter of Esta Sands and Burton Jaffe. Loved step-daughter of Eugene Sands and Judy Jaffe. Adored sister of Nanci and Jim Sapiro, beloved sister of Michael and David Jaffe, and Peggy and David Sands. Most wonderful aunt to Jordan, Ashlie and Kendall. Belove
 KATZ-Rose S. Passed away peacefully at home on March 9. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. Devoted mother of Steven and Susan, and Herbert and Linda. Cherished grandmother of Naomi and Aviva, and Jonathan, David and Marlee. Dear sister of Jack Sutter. Revered aunt of many. A true Aishet Chay
 LOSCH-Dorothy Frank. Beloved wife of Mark, loving mother of Myles and Lorayne, dear sister of Herman Frank and Lee Cadoff, adoring and deeply loved grandmother of Gayla Kornbluh, appreciative mother-in-law of David Kornbluh. Service on Friday, 9:45AM Plaza Memorial, 91 Street and Amsterdam 
 SACKLER-Else. On March 16, 2000. Cherished mother and grandmother. Vice president of the Arthur M. Sackler Foundation, president of the Else Sackler Foundation, former owner of William Douglas McAdams, Inc. Survived by her daughters, Carol Master and Elizabeth A. Sackler, and grandchildren,
 SCHRADER-Rae. On March 15, 2000. Devoted mother, sister and aunt. Although she faced many difficulties in life, she always turned lemons into lemonade. Services Sunday, 11:30 AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdame Avenue.       
 SONDHEIM-Evelyn. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, deeply mourns the death of Evelyn Sondheim, our beloved colleague. A Hadassah Founder, she served with great distinction as a National Vice President, National Secretary, Chair of the Jewish National Fund, and as a member of the Honorar
 ZION-Edith. SAR Academy notes with deep sorrow the sudden passing of Edith Zion. Beloved wife of Abe Zion, founder, long-time Benefactor and Trustee; adoring mother of our Trustee, Mark, Joshua, Adina, and their spouses, as well as cherished grandmother. May the entire family find consolati
 Christi Finch, whose catering shop, Word of Mouth, was among the first to produce luxury takeout food on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, died on Tuesday. She was 54. Her death, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, came after a prolonged gastrointestinal illness, h
 ABRAMS-Rose. The Officers, Management and Staff of Elderplan and Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the passing of Rose Abrams, beloved mother and wife of esteemed Elderplan Board Member, Norman Abrams. May her legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom she touched. 
 ADELSON-Loretta. Mother of Beth & Stewart, widow of the late Henry, sister of Hy, Sara, and the late Bob and Bette. Was a cherished sister and daughter, stalwart support of four siblings and helpmate of immigrant parents; Organizer of neighborhood baseball team and award-winning amateur vau
 BUTKIEWICZ-Julie (Herwitz) of Bedford and formerly of NYC. Beloved wife of Vincent. Dearest daughter of David R. and Carla B. Herwitz of Swampscott, MA. Adored granddaughter of the late Harry and Ruth Barron, Harry and Sara Herwitz. Loving sister of Andrew and Johanna Herwitz, Alexei Cowett
 FINCH-Christi, 54, on March 14, 2000, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Pilar; devoted daughter of Janice & George Kangas of Lincoln City, Oregon; cherished sister of Kathryn Amrani, Sheila Coventry and Sharon Borgford, all of the Portland area. Memorial services were held on March 17
 JAFFE-Elizabeth G. Most beloved daughter of Esta Sands and Burton Jaffe. Loved step-daughter of Eugene Sands and Judy Jaffe. Adored sister of Nanci and Jim Sapiro, beloved sister of Michael and David Jaffe, and Peggy and David Sands. Most wonderful aunt to Jordan, Ashlie and Kendall. Belove
 KELLA-Polly Jane Curtis, 80, passed away on March 10, 2000, in Seattle, WA. Polly was deeply devoted to the world of classical music, the history of Seattle, WA and the memory of her father, Asahel Curtis. She is survived by Kathleen Kella Ferris & John (Jake) Kella. Devoted wife of John Ja
 REINHARDT-Marguerite E. Educator and teacher of visually limited children for over forty years died Thursday, March 16, at Francis Schervier Home, Riverdale, NY at age 94. A graduate of The College of New Rochelle, a college she loved and never tired of singing its praises. Formerly of Bron
 ROBERTS-Eleanor Fern (nee Bernstein). Devoted wife of Earl for 57 years. Mother to Lynn (Schnell) and Shari (Peters); adoring grandmother to Alex, Susan and Max; loving sister of Carol and Maury Adelson; beloved aunt to Nancy (Howard) Bernstein, Amy (Dan) Ross, and Tammy (Jeffrey) Kirschner
 WOOD-Ruth Cutting Wilmerding, 90, died peacefully at her New York City home on March 12, 2000. She was the daughter of Helen and Lucius Wilmerding and the granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Fulton Cutting, also of New York City. Her husband, Dudley P. K. Wood predeceased her. She is survi
 ADELSON-Loretta. Mother of Beth & Stewart, widow of the late Henry, sister of Hy, Sara, and the late Bob and Bette. Was a cherished sister and daughter, stalwart support of four siblings and helpmate of immigrant parents; Organizer of neighborhood baseball team and award-winning amateur vau
 DIAZ-Bette Barron (Oonie). Passed on to her next great adventure on March 8. Bette's mark on the world in her 78 years is how many people know they have had a better life because of her. A memorial will be held on March 22 at 3:30 PM at St. Bede's Church, 2650 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, CA
 FOX-Eleanor. Loving, beloved wife of George Fox. Loving mother of Nicki. Cherished grandmother of Zoe, Chad and Sarah. Mourned by her loving son-in-law James, cousins Florence, Paul, Ruth, Sam, Selma and Shirley. Great sons-in-law Josh and John & great daughter-in-law Deborah. Forever in ou
 FRIEDES-Bernice. Beloved CoPresident of NCJW New York section. Bernice Friedes was admired for her caring and courage. Her concern for others was demonstrated by her dedication and enthusiasm for projects that served the needy. Her love of family was the compass for her life. Jean Krosner, 
 HARRIS-Margaret R. Leopold Schepp Foundation expresses deep sorrow at the sudden and untimely death of its Trustee and former scholar, Dame Margaret R. Harris. Her participation and presence was a source of strength and pleasure to the Board of Trustees and she will be missed. Barbara Tweed
 LEDER-Kathleen B. On March 17, 2000. Beloved wife of Richard, loving mother of Jonathan and Jessica. Cherished sister of Patrick and the late Joseph Beck. She will remain forever in our hearts. Service Monday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LEVINE-Mary. On March 11, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted mother of Ruth Turner and Jules. Adoring grandmother of Adam, Annie and Benjamin. We will all miss her dearly and she will remain part of our lives forever. Services were held Monday, March 13, 2000 at The New Montefio
 LONDON-Jean. Beloved mother of Eileen Schwartz-Bizar and Peter Schwartz; beloved sister and grandmother, was buried on Sunday, March 19. Her indomitable spirit will always be remembered.       
 McCORMICK-Kathleen, nee Mc Evoy. Died on March, 5, 2000. Born in Kilkenny, Ireland. Longtime resident of New York City. She was a secretary in the advertising department for the New York Times for more than twenty years and retired 15 years ago. Member of the Newspaper Guild. Survived by he
 MILLER-Gladys Colbert. Born 1919 in Far Rockaway, she was cherished as Mom, Nana, Glady, Aunt Glady and Cousin Glady. A pivotal member of her clan, she gathered family for occasions happy and sad. In her first life, she was the loving wife of Nathanial and co-partner in a radio business. 18
 REED-Barbara Lowe ''Moppet'', internationally recognized wildlife photographer of Bedford NY, died of breast cancer Tuesday after a valiant 10-year battle. Her legion of friends and her family rejoice in her life and deeply mourn her death. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to t
 REINHARDT-Marguerite E. Educator and teacher of visually limited children for over forty years died Thursday, March 16, at Francis Schervier Home, Riverdale, NY at age 94. A graduate of The College of New Rochelle, a college she loved and never tired of singing its praises. Formerly of Bron
 WILBERT-Wendla. Died at home March 15 after a long illness. She was a graduate of Colby Sawyer College and Boston University. She received a Master's degree in social work from New York University. She had previously been employed as an Editorial Assistant and worked as a social worker for 
 ADELSON-Loretta. Mother of Beth & Stewart, widow of the late Henry, sister of Hy, Sara, and the late Bob and Bette. Was a cherished sister and daughter, stalwart support of four siblings and helpmate of immigrant parents; Organizer of neighborhood baseball team and award-winning amateur vau
 FORBES-Helen Robbins, a resident of Lost Tree Village, North Plam Beach, FL, since 1977, passed away at home Thursday, March 16, 2000, after a prolonged illness. Mrs. Forbes is survived by her husband of 66 years, Alexander C. Forbes; three children: Alexandra F. Walker, of Dover, MA, C. St
 BLEETSTEIN-Elaine Nonas. Died on March 19 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Monroe Bleetstein. Adored mother of Nona Bleetstein and Marjorie and Michael Grunebaum. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, David, Christine and Ted Grunebaum. Loving sister of Miriam Blechner, Betty Lash, Dr.
 BROOMFIELD-Arline A. Died March 15 after a long illness. Daughter of the late Jacob and Ruth (Clamon) of Cranston, RI. Survived by her brother Frank of Ogunquit, Maine, and sister Fay Halsband of Southbury, CT along with her nephews Josh and David Halsband and nieces Jessica and Melinda Bro
 CHARNEY-Rochelle (Shelly) on March 19, 2000, a lifelong resident of New York City and employed by the Howard Sloan Koller Group. Daughter of the late Ann and George Charney, survived by her loving sister Stephanie (Marvin) Anzel and nephews Scott and Joshua Anzel. Services Tuesday 1PM at Mo
 DALSIMER-Adele M. Of Brookline, MA, on February 13th, 2000. Co-founder and Co-director of the Irish Studies Program at Boston College. Distinguished author, scholar, and teacher. Cherished wife of Dr. James S. Dalsimer. Beloved mother of Jennifer Dalsimer Archer and Joshua Dalsimer and prou
 ELSAS-Ursula Beatrice, on March 18, 2000. Survived by her loving children Corinne Moor Spingarn and Jon David Moor, twin brother Ulrich Pickardt, granddaughter Sierra Charlotte Spingarn, nephew Yves Pickardt and four step-children Jason M. Elsas, Jr., Roger D. Elsas, Victoria E. Darrah and 
 KRANTHER-Esther. On March 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jules. Devoted sister of Beatrice and the late Ruthie. Loving aunt to Paul, Nancy, Linda, Phyllis and Adele. Past president Sisterhood of Temple Israel of the City of New York. A pioneer in the fashion industry, she will never be 
 SCHONFELD-Hildegard. Beloved wife of Sidney, mother of Vicki, Gary, Liz and Victor; adored grandmother of Jared, Matthew, Remi, Sam and Zachary; and devoted sister of Marianne. A gracious, charming, dignified, proud and unassuming lady, she found joy and purpose in helping others. A truly m
 ELKIN-Rosalind. The American Jewish Congress expresses its deep sadness over the passing of Rosalind Elkin on March 6, the daughter of Lillian and Jack Elkin, longtime devoted leaders of this organization. We will join with others of her friends and family in recalling her life at a memoria
 Margaret Rosezarian Harris, a musician and educator who was the first black woman to conduct the  symphony orchestras of Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Minnesota and 11 other American cities, died on March 7 in New York City. She was 56 and lived in Elmsford, N.Y. The cau
 BLEETSTEIN-Elaine Nonas. Died on March 19 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Monroe Bleetstein. Adored mother of Nona Bleetstein and Marjorie and Michael Grunebaum. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, David, Christine and Ted Grunebaum. Loving sister of Miriam Blechner, Betty Lash, Dr.
 GINSBURG-Bobbie Hope, much loved by her family and friends for 90 years, passed away on Tuesday, March 7, 2000, after a courageous battle against cancer. She was predeceased by her loving husband, Herman; parents, Anna & Harry Shapiro; brother, Al Shapiro Sands, and sisters, Vera Freeman an
 OPPERMAN-Nancy Rosenthal, age 81, long time resident of NYC. Designer of Bloomingdales's orignal shopping bag, & wife of Martin Opperman, passed away March 10. She is pre-deceased by her husband, survived by daughter Amy (Paul), granddaughter Erin. Calling hours and service March 26th in Mi
 SCHONFELD - Hildegard. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Hilde Schonfeld, a beloved member and supporter of the JCC community, and devoted wife of longtime Board of Trustees member Sidney Schonfeld. Hilde was particular
 WEISHAR-Jessie. In her 90th year. Loving and devoted wife of the late Irving L. Loving and spirited mother to Joseph, Rochelle Krieg (deceased), Maxine and Robert Sokoloff. Adoring grandmother to Margo and Peter; Harold and Steven; Sharon, Diann, and Steven. Proud great grandmother to eight
 YARK-Pearl. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our esteemed member, Sandy Yark, and extends to her and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 BINA-HaRabanit Rachel. March 22, 2000. Jerusalem, Israel. American Friends of Yeshivat Hakotel mourns the passing of HaRabanit Rachel Bina, beloved wife of HaRav Aryeh Bina zl, and mother of HaRav Aharon Bina, Rosh HaYeshiva. Rabanit Bina was truly an Ayshet Chayil, leaving a profound and l
 FRYDMAN-Gusta (Winchester). Died at home March 21. Born July 25, 1919 in Poland. Loving and beloved wife of Gregory, mother of Anne, grandmother of Sophia and Antonia, mother-in-law of Stephen Dixon, much loved friend and psychotherapist to many people, author of ''My Sessions with Kay.'' S
 HALPERN-Clara (nee Strulovici). On Mar. 22, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Marcel. Beloved mother of Esther Dresner, Judith Miller, Mimi Halpern and the late Frank. Loving sister of Rasela Beer, Lisa Calman and the late Otilia Simha and Avram Strulovici. Cherished grandmother of Lisa Dresne
 KONING-Ursula, age 85 of Port Washington, L.I. on March 20, 2000. Loving and much beloved mother of Thomas, Peter and Laurie, Andrew and Gretchen, Christopher and Pamela, Paul and Patricia. Devoted grandmother of nine grandchildren. Adored sister of Rena Schellong. Reposing at Austin F. Kno
 KRAUSE-Ann, of Douglaston, NY, on March 20 at her home. Predeceased by her husband Saul & son James. Funeral services Friday, March 24, at noon at Gutterman's of Woodbury, 516-921-5757.       
 McCAFFREY-Irene B. March 15. Wife of the late Francis J., former State Senator of New York. She is survived by her brothers James O'Hara, Richard O'Hara and Vincent O'Hara; four children, Francis Jr., Joan Patton, David and Susan; and four grandsons, Francis, Joseph, Luke and David. Upon gr
 SZOKE-Elizabeth, age 91, died March 15th, 2000 after a short illness. Mrs. Szoke was a retired language teacher at Riverdale Country School in the Bronx. Born in Hungary, she moved to the U.S. in 1939 along w/her husband Stephen and daughter MaryAnn. She is survived by a grandson, Daniel Po
 WUNSCH-Doris, on March 22, 2000 at the age of 72. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Debra and James Frank and Peter and Janet Wunsch. Proud grandmother of Alicia. Sister of George Wancura. Service on Thursday, 10 AM, at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel,'' 21 West Broad Street, Mou
 Jean Howard, who rode the comet of her extraordinary beauty, ethereal glamour and insouciant intelligence to become a Ziegfeld girl, a Hollywood starlet, a legendary hostess and the house photographer of the film colony, died at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Monday. She was 89.     
 Katharine Washburn, an essayist, editor, anthologist and translator whose legacy includes a cornucopia of verse from the dawn of civilization to the present, died Wednesday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 57. The apparent cause was a heart attack, her family said. Ms. Washb
 ALGARIN-Maria Socorro has passed on to the new millennium and to the new space that is reserved for great talents that work at nourishing society. Maria was a poet, a composer and a visual artist of international repute. She came from Puerto Rico to the mainland seeking to materialize the N
 ALTSHULER-Shirley. On March 22nd, 2000. Beloved daughter of Lewis and Ethel Gangel. Adoring sister of Melvin (Buddy) Gangel. Devoted widow of Mortimer J. Altshuler, Sr. Loving mother to Stuart. Caring aunt to Ilene and Ann. Ardent supporter of NCJW. In lieu of flowers donations to NCJW are 
 GASTELLI-Erica. Died after a brief illness. Artistic Administrator for Spoleto Festival USA since 1979. Erica was an extraordinary friend to young musicians as well as conductors. Her elegance, spirit and sensitivity to musical talent are irreplaceable and we will miss her deeply. Memorial 
 HARRIS-Pauline S. (Sang) of Nashua, NH. Entered into rest, March 22, 2000 formerly of New York City and Lowell, MA., aged 102 years. She was the wife of the late Maurice E. Harris; loving mother of the late Richard Harris, and grandmother of Richard Harris of IN and Mark and Shelli Harris o
 MARCUS-Lilian Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Ben S. Marcus, devoted mother of Judith (Alan) Chyten and Ina Ross, adored Sabtra of Marc, Robin, Ricky, Kimberly, Stan, David and Jonathan. Treasured great grandmother of Eric Marcus and Lindsay Nicole Ross, Stephanie Elyse and Matthew Brian P
 RUBIN-Lillian. A great lady who lived a beautiful, caring life has left us! A day spent with Lillian was like a day in the sun. She loved people and in turn was loved by them. We mourn with the Palter and Rubin families and all who knew her. Rest in peace, dearest friend, we shall miss you 
 STURZ - Constance Northridge. Devoted wife and high-spirited companion of Irwin Sturz, munificent friend and family member, a person in her own right: bold, curious, savvy-with mountainous courage. Passionate about politics, she died short of the 2000 election results, to her regret and all
 Vivian Fine, a composer who wrote ballet scores for Martha Graham and Jose Limon, as well as copious amounts of orchestral, chamber and vocal music, died on Monday at the Southern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington after an automobile accident. She was 86 and lived in Hoosick Falls, N.Y. 
 Helen Venturelli, a champion of better benefits for widows of police officers and firefighters killed on the job, died March 15 at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86 and lived in the Bronx. In 1943, Mrs. Venturelli's husband, Pasquale, a policeman, leapt onto the r
 KIRSHNER-Janet. One day before her 67th birthday a force of nature has left us too soon. She was the center of many people's lives. Husband Les, daughter Lizzie and her husband Andy, son Jonny & his wife Esty, grandchildren Matty, Jessie, Elie & Ari and her very large extended family of fri
 MARCUS-Lilian Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Ben S. Marcus, devoted mother of Judith (Alan) Chyten and Ina Ross, adored Sabta of Marc, Robin, Ricky, Kimberly, Stan, David and Jonathan. Treasured great grandmother of Eric Marcus and Lindsay Nicole Ross, Stephanie Elyse and Matthew Brian Pi
 PAPKA-Claudia Rattazzi. Her husband Ron, her daughter Sophia, her parents Serena and Mario, her in-laws Yonina and Ben, Sharon and Carlos Ordonez and Michelle and Pankaj Puri, her family and her friends will always remember her with love and pride. Memorial service, Sunday, March 26th, 2PM 
 RUBIN-Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Louis Rubin. Adored mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Loving friend to all who knew her. Went to her final rest in her ninety-seventh year. Rest in peace, Grammy. We loved you so much. Harriet, Buddy, Scott and Steven       
 STURZ - Constance Northridge. Devoted wife and high-spirited companion of Irwin Sturz, munificent friend and family member, a person in her own right: bold, curious, savvy-with mountainous courage. Passionate about politics, she died short of the 2000 election results, to her regret and all
 WHITEMAN-Bee, formerly of Great Neck, on March 23, 2000, in her 94th year. Devoted wife of the late Henri, mother of Lois and Dr. Demetrius Pertsemlidis of New York City and Michael & Margery Whiteman of Albany, grandmother of Drs. Alexander and David Pertsemlidis and Bailey, Stephen and El
 Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A. conspirator, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. She was 84. Ms. Grau, politically engaged si
 ALTSHULER-Shirley. The Jeanette and Morris Kessel Volunteer Services Department at Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledges with sadness the passing of Shirley Altshuler, a devoted member of the Volunteer Service Board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family and to all who loved h
 BLEETSTEIN-Elaine (nee Nonas). We, the remaining siblings, will always remember with joy and love that red haired flapper of the roaring twenties who never lost her zest for life. Betty Lash, Mim Blechner Dr. Gerson Nonas, Elliott Nonas       
 KIRSHNER-Janet. One day before her 67th birthday a force of nature has left us too soon. She was the center of many people's lives. Husband Les, daughter Lizzie and her husband Andy, son Jonny & his wife Esty, grandchildren Matty, Jessie, Elie & Ari and her very large extended family of fri
 MARCUS-Lilian Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Ben S. Marcus, devoted mother of Judith (Alan) Chyten and Ina Ross, adored Sabta of Marc, Robin, Richard, Kimberly, Stan, David and Jonathan. Treasured great grandmother of Eric Marcus and Lindsay Nicole Ross, Stephanie Elyse and Matthew Brian 
 MARKEL-Frances (nee Gilbert). Beloved wife of the late Jesse M. Markel. Devoted mother of Carl and Edith Markel, Judith and Leonard Lindey and Pat Feder and Jacques Crouzet-Pascal. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Mark, Michael, David, Kenneth and Eric. And great-grandmother of nine. Lifel
 Vivian Harris, a comedian and chorus girl and the performer with the most recorded appearances -- 10,000 -- at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, died Feb. 18 in Englewood, N.J. She was 97. Ms. Harris, who died at the Nursing and Retirement Home of the Actors Fund of America, was one of 
 Jeremy Ingalls, an acclaimed poet during the 1940's and 50's, died on March 16 in Tucson, where she lived. She was 88. In 1941 Ms. Ingalls won the Yale Series of Younger Poets prize for ''The Metaphysical Sword,'' a collection that used classical, mythological, biblical and Oriental
 FRAENKEL-Cecele Ross. Of Purchase, NY, formerly of Rye, NY, and New Orleans, LA, died on March 25, 2000. Devoted wife of Francis. Loving mother of Sallie and Julie. Adored grandmother of Emily, Melanie and Max. Beloved sister of Paula. Cecele's memory will be cherished by all of those whose
 HAUSER-LEVIN-Lillian. 92, of Great Neck, NY. Died peacefully at home on March 25, 2000. She was predeceased by her first husband, the late Milton I. Hauser, and by her second husband, the late Jess Levin. She is survived by her children Harry and Deborah Hauser of Newton, MA, and Richard an
 KATZ-Naomi. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Naomi Katz. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her husband Ken and the entire family. Joel Jacobson President KATZ-Naomi. A tre
 KIRSHNER-Janet. One day before her 67th birthday a force of nature has left us too soon. She was the center of many people's lives. Husband Les, daughter Lizzie and her husband Andy, son Jonny & his wife Esty, grandchildren Matty, Jessie, Elie & Ari and her very large extended family of fri
 LOEB-Enid. On March 25, 2000, after a long illness. Enid was alive and vital right to the end. She is survived by her loving daughter Marcie Auerbach and son-in-law Alan, as well as her adored grandsons Jason and Philip. The family will always be grateful for the love, care and devotion of 
 MOLOFSKY-Belle. On March 25, 2000. Survived by her husband Nathan; three children, Lorraine Silsbee of Silver Spring, MD, Walter Molofsky of NYC, Robert Molofsky of Washington, DC; and six grandchildren, Danielle, Nicole, Ben, Sam, David and Henry. Services Tuesday, 10:45 AM, at Riverside M
 SARETT-Charlotte. Departed at 88 years on March 21. Beloved mother of Sheilah Rechtschaffer; loving mother-in-law of Bert Rechtschaffer; loving grandmother to Jonathan and Jessica Rechtschaffer. She will be missed.       
 SUGARMAN-Bertha. Of Fair Lawn, NJ, formerly of Paterson, NJ, on March 26, 2000. Predeceased by her husband Bernard and her son Earl. Survived by her daughter Joy Blake, her cherished grandchildren and great-grandchildren. An active member of B'nai B'rith and the Daughters of Miriam, Clifton
 TOOMER-Mrs. Marina Rosemary Baruch. 85, of Longwood, FL, died March 23. Born in NYC, she was a longtime resident of Long Island before moving to Kissimmee, FL, in 1969. A niece of the late Bernard Baruch, she was a partner in the H. Hentz & Co. Brokerage firm on Wall Street. Marina served a
 AXELROD-Helene (nee Gottesman). Beloved wife of 55 years of Bernard. Loving mother of Robert and Jay, and caring mother-in-law of Christy Wise and Margaret Axelrod. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Caroline, Lee and Charles. Fond sister of the late Selma Gottesman, & sister-in-law of Bren
 CONTRERAS-Cynthia. Loved and admired by her colleagues and students in the Film and Speech departments of Brooklyn College for thirty years. Her generosity of spirit transformed the lives of all who knew her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Jose. Memorial contributions m
 FRAENKEL-Cecele. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Cecele Fraenkel, a leader in the Jewish community and a longtime supporter of our Westchester Women's Campaign. Together with her husband, Francis, a devoted membe
 FRIEDMAN-Selma K. March 26. Beloved wife of Ted. Devoted mother to Patricia Koeppel and Andrew. Loving grandmother to Roberta Sharon Koeppel. Caring sister of Geraldine Adler, Bevin Koeppel, Louise Feldman, Grace Gold & Alfred Koeppel. Graveside ceremony Tuesday, March 28 at 11AM at Mt. Leb
 GROBSTEIN-Gertrude Gittel (nee Peresman). Beloved wife of the late Jacob Grobstein. Devoted mother of Susan Willard. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Died in her 98th year on March 26. Funeral at ''Riverside'' Chapel, 55 Station Plaza North, Great Neck, on March 28, 1PM.       
 HERMAN-Florence, 81, died on Monday, March 27, 2000. She is survived by her beloved husband, Sam Herman. Devoted mother of Amy Shalom, Lisa Sparber, Lauren Herman and Andrea Herman. Devoted sister of Lynn Lapman, and adoring grandmother of Kira and Todd Shalom. For further information, plea
 HOUCK-Louise J. Booth. On March 25, 2000, suddenly at home in Sarasota, FL after a long life of giving friendship and joy to others. Born November 7, 1911, she was a graduate of Carnegie Institute of Technology and loving wife of the late Howard W. Booth and the late Harold E. Houck. She is
 KING-Joan Hone. Died March 26, 2000 at age 70. Writer and international art dealer. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas LeRoy King. Loving mother of Sarah, Bayard & Ledyard. Grandmother of Harry, Marina, Nicholas, Samantha & Gregory. Sister of Frederica Neff, Eugenie Angles and Philip Hone Au
 KIRSHNER-Janet. The Board of Directors and Faculty of the Summit School express their sincere condolences to the family of its staunch advocate and supporter, Jan Kirshner. Her creativity and initiative, compasion and love, will be sorely missed. Dr. Judith Gordon, Director Regina Skyer, Pr
 LOEB-Enid. On March 25, 2000, after a long illness. Enid was alive and vital right to the end. She is survived by her loving daughter Marcie Auerbach and son-in-law Alan, as well as her adored grandsons Jason and Philip. The family will always be grateful for the love, care and devotion of 
 MILENKO-Naomi. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 REID-Mrs. Fergus. The Officers and Directors of The Garden Club of America express deep sorrow on the death of their former President, Mrs. Fergus Reid, Jr., and extend deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Etheldreda Seabury Reid served the Garden Club with great distinction and extr
 AXELROD-Helene (nee Gottesman). Beloved wife of 55 years of Bernard. Loving mother of Robert and Jay, and caring mother-in-law of Christy Wise and Margaret Axelrod. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Caroline, Lee and Charles. Fond sister of the late Selma Gottesman, & sister-in-law of Bren
 GOODMAN-Cynthia (Harkaby) born January 10, 1913 in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Goodman. Resided in Greenwich Village. Founder of The Gotham Chapter of B'Nai-Brith, an active member for thirty years. She leaves behind her nephews Warren and Stuart Vogel, her great nieces M
 KING-Joan Hone. Died March 26, 2000 at age 70. Writer and international art dealer. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas LeRoy King. Loving mother of Sarah, Bayard & Ledyard. Grandmother of Harry, Marina, Nicholas, Samantha & Gregory. Sister of Frederica Neff, Eugenie Angles and Philip Hone Au
 REID-Etheldreda Winthrop Seabury, died at her home in York Harbor, Maine, on March 26th, at the age of 96. Devoted wife of Fergus Reid, Jr., who predeceased her, beloved mother of Fergus Reid III, William Seabury Reid and Winthrop Reid Burns, grandmother of five grandchildren, five stepgran
 SHEBAIRO-Miriam (Bunny). The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Bunny Shebairo. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband Akram Shebairo and to all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Gover
 Anna Sokolow, a modern-dance choreographer known for her social commitment and searing depictions of urban loneliness, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. As a dancer and choreographer, beginning in the 1930's, Miss Sokolow was concerned with the toll that society e
 KING-Joan Hone. Died March 26, 2000 at age 70. Writer and international art dealer. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas LeRoy King. Loving mother of Sarah, Bayard & Ledyard. Grandmother of Harry, Marina, Nicholas, Samantha & Gregory. Sister of Frederica Neff, Eugenie Angles and Philip Hone Au
 RESNICK-Elizabeth (nee Lederman). Died March on 28th, 2000. Survived by her beloved husband Lawrence and children Barbara and Richard. Private service. Rest in peace, Betty.       
 SOKOLOW-Anna. Died at home in New York City on March 29th. at the age of 90. A service will be held for this choreographer, dancer, and teacher, at Redden's Funeral Home, 325 W. 14 St. NYC, Sunday, April 2, at 11 AM. A memorial service will be arranged in the future. She is survived by a ne
 BENET-Shaun Catherine, Director of Educational Marketing at Channel 13, WNET, died of brain cancer March 28 at her mother's home in Boston. She was 44. Ms. Benet was born in Pittsburgh. She graduated from Smith College in 1977. She was Vice President of the Bank of New York, the Boston Comp
 CONTRERAS - Cynthia. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Cynthia Contreras, assistant professor and deputy chairperson of the Department of Film. Her thirty years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich, President Brooklyn College       
 JACOBSON-Betty. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Betty Jacobson and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 JOSEPH-Betty Jacobson. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Betty Jacobson Joseph. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. M
 NISSIM-Rivka. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with saddness the passing of Rivka Nissim, beloved mother of Paola Schulhof. We extend our deepest condolences to Paola and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 SITOMER-Frances, Mom and Grandmom passed away on March 29th, 2000. A very special lady, she will be missed by everybody. She was reunited with her loving husband (and our dad), and she is resting in peace with a smile. Her loving memory will be with us forever.       
 SOKOLOW-Anna. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Anna Sokolow, a member of our dance faculty from 1957 to 1993. Through her profound understanding of the human condition, Anna's choreography allowed her audiences to better understand themselves. Her creativity, integrity and di
 TIGHE-Frances M. Of Pound Ridge, NY. Died March 29, 2000. She was 78 years old. Mrs. Tighe was born January 28, 1922 in Yonkers, NY to Stanley and Sarah Moffat. Beloved mother of Lorna de Zengotita and Laurence Tighe. Loving grandmother of five. Service Saturday St. Matthews Episcopal Churc
