 GOLDSTEIN-Augusta L. Passed away on October 28, 2001. Born October 18, 1916 in New York City, where she lived for all but several years during WW II when her work with the Federal government took her to Washington, DC. Augusta had a long and proud career as Executive Secretary to the Hon. D
 GREENWOOD-Edith. The Education Legacy Fund (ELF) of the Metropolitan Chapter of the American Society of Interior Designers mourns the passing of its beloved founder. She was an active interior designer and teacher and died after a brief illness at the age of 86. There will be a memorial ser
 O'CONNELL-Adele Q. (nee Quilgan) 91 of Little Silver NJ formerly of New York City NY. On Tuesday October 30, 2001. Wife of the late James Timothy O'Connell, former Under Secretary of Labor during the Eisenhower administration. Father of (U.S. Army Ret. Col.) James T. O'Connell, Jr. and daug
 ROTHSTEIN-Freyda (aka Freddie Simon). Died in her sleep on October 28th, 2001 in Venice, Italy while on a cruise. She is survived by her two sons, Daniel and Aron. She had a performing career as a folk singer on her own radio program on WNYC, and as half the folk singing duo, ''Frey and Mar
 SANDOR-Christina. Born Satzger von Balvanyos in Vienna passed away on October 26, 2001. She was widowed to Archduke Carlos Habsburg Bourbon, once claimant to the throne of Spain and married to Gyorgy Sandor, renowned concert pianist and protege of the composer Bela Bartok. She is survived b
 SOBER-Bernice, 86. Passed away on October 30. She is survived by her son, James, and her two-yearold granddaughter, Simone, and sister, Sylvia, & many other loving family & friends. Funeral services at Campbell's, 1076 Madison Ave. (81st Street), Friday, 3 PM.       
 WALTER-Nelly. Columbia Artists Management Inc. was deeply saddened by the loss of our longtime friend and colleague, Nelly Walter, on October 25, 2001. Miss Walter joined CAMI in June of 1946, only a few days after she had escaped from war-torn Europe and arrived in New York. Her extensive 
 BARUCH-Sulamita (nee Balagura), M.D., Ph.D. Dr. Baruch was Adjunct Associate Professor of Physiology at Weill Cornell Medical College. We deeply regret the passing of our beloved colleague of many years, an accomplished scientist and teacher, and extend our condolences to her family. Erich 
 FARRELL-Hazel (nee Medford). Of Freehold, NJ and Woodhaven, NY, October 31, 2001, in her 88th year. Beloved widow of James E. Farrell, whom she married on her 21st birthday in 1935. Devoted mother of Carol and Walter Bennett, of Freehold, NJ; Margaret and Gerald Nelson, of Brooklyn, NY; and
 FISHER-Kathryn. Of San Carlos, CA, passed away November 1, 2001, formerly of Miami Beach and Elkins Park, PA. Survived by her husband, Philip, her son, Herbert (Lilliann), daughters, Barbara (Conny) Raitzky and Jane (Larry) David, grandchildren, Colin, Cliff and Mallie. She was the most gen
 GEFFNER-Nettie. Loving mother of Carol & Edward, grandmother of Mira, Marina, Marco, Roberto, and Dario, died at age 90, October 31, 2001. She was a passionate New Yorker who loved the drama and excitement of the city. The family will sit Shiva at the home of Edward I. Geffner, 160 Riversid
 GREGORY-Sage Beddingfield. Of Beacon Hill, Boston on October 30, 2001. Six months old, precious daughter of Sacha and William (Terry). An angel put to rest, treasured by her maternal grandparents and uncle, paternal grandmother, aunts and cousins. Memorial service at Trinity Church, Copley 
 KAWITZKY-Sherry. On October 31, 2001. Her heartbroken husband Ronald, her children Simon and Deanna and her sister Karen Bressler mourn her untimely passing after a long illness. Our doer, our provider, our comforter is no more. We will never understand why. Only our love for her, and hers 
 KLEINLERER-Nitza. It is with profound sorrow that we record the passing of our beloved teacher. Devoted to Temple Shaaray Tefila's Religious School and its children for over a decade, Nitza's daily presence in our school will be sorely missed by all. We express our heartfelt condolences to 
 KORNREICH-JoAnne. Beloved wife of Morton, devoted mother of James and Meredith, Thomas and Barbara, and Nancy and Robert Rieger, adored and adoring grandmother of Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly, and Alex, and dear friend of Larcenia Petty. Services Friday 11:30 A.M. 
 KREEGER-Henrietta. On October 31, 2001. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving Mother of Robert, Douglas, Harold and Alice. Adoring grandmother of 10. Dear mother-in-law. Cherished aunt. Devoted Friend to many. She was a pioneering educator in learning disabilities & an incredible baker. Gr
 MOSER-Felicia. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its longstanding member and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Lewis Freedman, President       
 O'CONNELL-Adele Q., (nee Quilgan), 91. Of Little Silver, New Jersey, formerly of New York City, NY on Tuesday, October 30, 2001. Wife of the late James Timothy O'Connell, former Under Secretary of Labor during the Eisenhower Administration. Mother of (U.S. Army Ret.) Col. James T. O'Connell
 REARDON-Jean Ellenburg. Of Hingham, Mass. On October 30 after 60 vibrant years. Beloved wife of Blasdel. Mother of Blase, Sean, Chris, Kevin, Tim. Grandmother of Isabel and Daniele. Manhattanville College, 1962; Art Academy of Cincinnati, 1988. Artist, designer. She imbued all she did with 
 ROBINS-Eva. Eve was a labor arbitrator, friend, mentor, traveler, pioneer & crossword and Scrabble fiend. She was loving, unpretentious, steadfast, ethical and had a wonderful sense of humor. Her sisters, brothers, nieces and nephews will always treasure her influence, guidance, support and
 ROTHSTEIN-Freyda (aka Freddie Simon). Died in her sleep on October 28th, 2001 in Venice, Italy while on a cruise. She is survived by her two sons, Aron and Daniel. She had a performing career as a folk singer on her own radio program on WNYC, and as half the folk singing duo, ''Frey and Mar
 WEIL-Helen Lader. Passed away on October 27, 2001 at the age of 86. Wife of the late Richard C. Weil, beloved mother of Francine McGriff, Denis, Roland and Marianne Weil and grandmother of Kimberly, Darcy, Nell, Carrie and Cassandra. Also survived by brother Lawrence Lader. Formerly of Poun
 Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today. She was 77. She had been suffering from heart problems and rheumatoid arthritis, her daughter Mary Beth Waits
 ALTAVELA-Marie T. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Marie Altavela, associated with The Times for 32 years until her retirement in 1979.       
 FARRELL-Hazel (nee Medford). Of Freehold, NJ and Woodhaven, NY, October 31, 2001, in her 88th year. Beloved widow of James E. Farrell, whom she married on her 21st birthday in 1935. Devoted mother of Carol and Walter Bennett, of Freehold, NJ; Margaret and Gerald Nelson, of Brooklyn, NY; and
 KAWITZKY-Sherry. On October 31, 2001. Her heartbroken husband Ronald, her children Simon and Deanna and her sister Karen Bressler mourn her untimely passing after a long illness. Our doer, our provider, our comforter is no more. We will never understand why. Only our love for her, and hers 
 LEE-Linda C. The Fordham Law School community records with profound sorrow the tragic loss in the World Trade Center of Linda C. Lee, Class of 1994. She was a multi-talented and caring person. We extend our deep sympathy to her family. John D. Feerick, Dean       
 RAUCH-Frances Brewster, 88. November 1, 2001 at her home in Bryn Mawr, PA. Born in New York City on September 2, 1913, she attended the Brearley School and graduated from the Foxcroft School, Middleburg, VA. with the Class of 1931. She received a BS degree from Columbia School of General St
 ROBINS-Eva. Eve was a labor arbitrator, friend, mentor, traveler, pioneer & crossword and Scrabble fiend. She was loving, unpretentious, steadfast, ethical and had a wonderful sense of humor. Her sisters, brothers, nieces and nephews will always treasure her influence, guidance, support and
 FORST-Beatrice (nee Stein). Suddenly on September 29th, 2001. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. She was as beautiful inside as out.       
 GAMBARDELLA - Elizabeth B. (nee Corr). Of New York City and Brant Beach, NJ, on November 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Anthony P. Gambardella. Loving mother of Angela Lisciotto and Nikles Gambardella. Dear niece of the late Martha and Nikles Tsikourias. Also surviving are four grandchil
 GOLDSTEIN-Augusta L. Passed away on October 28, 2001. Born October 18, 1916 in New York City, where she lived for all but several years during WW II when her work with the Federal government took her to Washington, DC. Augusta had a long and proud career as Executive Secretary to the Hon. D
 HALL-Julia Elizabeth. Passed away at her home in NYC at age 83, on October 29, 2001. Born in London within the sound of Bow Bells. Daughter of Harriett Cass Newman and Harold Newman. Longtime UN staff member, painter, photographer and world traveler. Julia is survived by her son John, her d
 KAWITZKY-Sherry. On October 31, 2001. Her heartbroken husband Ronald, her children Simon and Deanna and her sister Karen Bressler mourn her untimely passing after a long illness. Our doer, our provider, our comforter is no more. We will never understand why. Only our love for her, and hers 
 KOFSKY-Marilyn (nee Doppelt). Died on October 29, 2001, surrounded by her adoring family after a long illness. She was a loving and devoted wife, mother, grandmother, sister, friend and teacher. In 25 years as a teacher in the Oceanside Public Schools she touched the lives of hundreds of st
 LANDAU-Jean. Devoted wife and mother, beloved grandmother, artist and philanthropist, died from natural causes early Friday, November 2, at home in Teaneck, NJ. In 1991 she was honored for her charitable vision by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University. She is survived by he
 LIPTON-Hilda. Her place in our lives was immeasurable, her loss unimaginable. The Spiegel Family Sherry, Ed, Auriell, Brennan and Tracy       
 POSTER-Dorothy C. Died on October 30, 2001. Dr. Poster practiced psychotherapy for many years in New York City. Her passing is deeply mourned by her husband, Carl B. Zuckerman, and nieces, Joanna, Enid, Debra, Susan and nephew, David. Private services were held.       
 SCHNEIDER-Marcia Kuyper. Age 74 of Clearwater Beach, FL formerly of New York City died October 17, 2001 at her residence. Born in Chicago, she grew up in Pella, Iowa. She worked as a television director for NBC Television Network for over 40 years, and retired to Florida. She had many achie
 SILVERMAN-Clara. Clara Cohen Silverman, age 89, of Slingerlands, NY, died Monday, October 29, 2001. Mrs. Silverman was born in New York City and had resided in the Albany area for the last few years. She resided most of her life in metropolitan NY. She was a graduate of Hunter College in Ne
 VOGEL-Sylvia. November 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Moe Vogel. Loving mother of Howard and Laurence, and mother-in-law to Judith and Anna Lise. Adoring grandmother to Peter, Michael and Carsten. Cherished greatgrandmother to Edward, Charles and Emma. Devoted aunt of Naomi Leeds and Ala
 LEGRO-Adriana. In loving memory of Adriana, her family will hold a memorial service Saturday, November 10th at 1:30 at The Church of Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71 St., New York, New York.       
 Barbara Tropp, an innovative San Francisco chef, restaurateur and author of books about cooking, died on Oct. 26 at her apartment in San Francisco. She was 53 and had a second home in the Napa Valley. The cause was ovarian cancer, The San Francisco Chronicle reported. Ms. Tr
 ABRAMS-Lynn. 70, of Great Neck, on November 2, 2001. Cherished mother of Danal and Seth. Treasured ''Grammy'' of Madeline. Loving mother-in-law of Wendy. Gardener and craftsperson par excellence, computer whiz, animal lover and avid gem collector. Sage in advice and unlimited in knowledge. 
 BERMAN-Annette Paltin. October 24, 1914, to November 2, 2001. Beloved mother of Myron J. Berman and Arnold T. Berman. Grandmother of Jainee L. Berman, Corey M. Berman and Abigail T. Berman. She was a great gift, an exemplary life and an inspiration to all. Shiva will be at the home of Myron
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. Services will be private. A
 SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Churc
 AUGENTI-Marion Wallace. Died at the Methodist Church Home in Riverdale, NY on November 5, 2001 at age 104. A graduate of Oberlin Conservatory of Music, she had resided in New York City since 1924. Her husband, Anthony, died in 1971. She is survived by a daughter, Martha Kershaw, a son, Thom
 BERGER-Barbara (nee Kleinman). Aug. 23, 1941 to November 5, 2001. Beloved wife of Leonard Berger. Loving mother of Lauren Berger, Dina & Dave Bortnichak. Stepmother to Amy and Lee Certilman, Betsy and Michael Moreno. Sister to Dennis and Ken Kleinman. Beloved daughter-inlaw of Frances Berge
 DAVIS-Jean. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins the staff and volunteers of the Jeanette and Morris Kessel Volunteer Services Department in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Jean Davis, a devoted member of the Volunteer Service Board for over 10 years. To her family, 
 EATON-Elizabeth Witsell, 75, of Manhattan, on November 4, 2001. Loving mother of Carolyn, Alexander, Sarah and Lisa. Treasured grandmother of Eliza, Lily, Jay, Nina and William. Sister of Frederick C. Witsell, Jr. Avid tennis player and golfer, lifelong traveler and cherished friend to many
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. Services will be private. A
 HACKETT-Ann R. On November 4, 2001. Wife of the late David P. Mother of the late Adam C. Beloved mother of Allyson and Mitchell. Devoted daughter of Lawrence and Cynthia Rozett. Adored grandmother of Brooke. Cherished sister of Robert Rozett. Loved by Phyllis, Daysie & Sadie. Will be tremen
 ISNER-Jeffrey Michael, M.D. Our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Isner's loving wife, Linda Isner, and their children, Joshua, Jessica and Matthew; to Dr. Isner's courageous and devoted mother, Lilli Isner; and to Dr. Isner's beloved and caring sister, Betsy Robinson and her family. Ethel and H
 MARTIN-Allis Beaumont. I mourn the loss of my spiritual mother, Allis Beaumont Martin, once wife of American-born tenor Riccardo Martin, who debuted as Faust in Boito's Mefistofele and continued at the Metropolitan Opera for nine seasons, sang also at La Scala, and shared with Allis composi
 MUSER-Helen. On November 5, 2001 in her 88th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Robert Muser. Loving mother of Judith Brook and Howard Muser. Mother-in-law of David and Francine. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Jonathan and Nicole, Ilyse, Andrew and Marc. Sister of David Zimmerman. Services Tu
 PACKARD-Joyce T. On November 5, 2001. Beloved daughter of Leon and Roz Cohen; mother of Sean; sister of David and Joel; sister-in-law of Abbe and Joanne, and aunt of Michael, Caroline and Nicole. Joyce made everyone around her smile, and her own smile will not be forgotten. In lieu of flowe
 SELIGSOHN-Selma. Migdal Ohr Institutions in Israel and the Board of Directors of the American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of Selma Seligsohn, mother of our dear friend & Board member, Jerry Seligsohn. We join all who knew her in remembrance of a loving mother to Jerry and
 SELTZER-Harold G. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Susan Seltzer, upon the loss of her father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 SHAPIRO-Rose. A former president of the NYC Board of Education, at her retirement home, Lauderhill, FL, November 3, three days short of her 98th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Morris Shapiro, mother of James Shapiro & Nina Agel, grandmother of four, great-grandmother of six. Memorial co
 SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Churc
 WEXNER-Bella. The Israel Education Fund of UJC and the Jewish Agency mourns the death of Bella Wexner. A Jewish leader and philanthropist who helped build projects in Jerusalem and Israel. A true leader in philanthropy. We send our condolences to her daughter, Susan Wexner, and to the famil
 BERGER-Barbara. To my one and only. You were always there for advice, a pep talk, a shoulder to cry on. We shared secrets. You understood my fears. We shared life's joys and sorrows and ordinary moments. You believed in me even when I gave up on myself. That's the kind of friend you were to
 EATON-Elizabeth Witsell, 75, of Manhattan, on November 4, 2001. Devoted wife of the late William Mellon Eaton. Loving mother of Carolyn, Alexander, Sarah and Lisa. Treasured grandmother of Eliza, Lily, Jay, Nina and William. Sister of Frederick C. Witsell, Jr. Avid tennis player and golfer,
 EFROS-Judith (Judy) B. (nee Breitman). Beloved, darling wife and best friend of Edwin Efros. Loving, caring mother of Ellen Anne Efros-Kahn and Paul Steven Efros. She fought a long and heroic battle against disease. She had been a fine pianist, and almost to the end, was an avid gardener wh
 FARBER-Mimi. Age 90. Died peacefully at home November 5, 2001. Wife of the late Irving Farber. Beloved mother of Howard (Pat). Adored grandmother of Lori and Abbey. Great grandmother of Leah. A great lady of humor and kindness, she will be greatly missed. Donations to Cancer Care, 275 7th A
 FISHER-Rosalind. The officers, Board of Directors, & staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Rosalind Fisher, beloved mother of Nancy Englander, our generous, longtime friend, and loyal supporter of our women's campaign. We send our deepest sympathies to Nancy and her husban
 GOLDNER-Charles K. On November 6, 2001. Beloved husband of Pearl (Piri). Loving father of Naomi (Abe) Colton, Debbie (Elliot) Gibber. Dear brother of Edith Steinlauf. Adoring grandfather of Daniel & Amy, Aryeah and Tzippi, Jacob and Jennifer, Leah, Marc, Miriam, Michael, Mindy & David. Grea
 GREENBLATT-Lee (nee Firestone). Beloved wife of the late Samuel, gently passed away in her 90th year in Boca Raton, FL, on November 6, 2001. Loving mother of Sheila and Marvin Shenfeld, Judith and R. Paul Kashden and Joan and Michael Nelson. Adored grandmother of Steven & Wendy Shenfeld, Ro
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. Services will be private. A
 NACHWALTER-Anna. Age 94. On November 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of the late Renee and Neil, and mother-in-law of Ruby. Devoted grandmother of Elaine and Alfred Fields, Susan Traub, Eric Traub, Ricky, Wendi and Steven Nachwalter. Adoring great-grandmother of Rand
 SIEGEL-Phyllis M. On November 5, 2001, at Lenox Hill Hospital, in her 86th year following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Sigmund A. Siegel, M.D. Cherished daughter of the late David and Helen Moskowitz. Devoted mother of Mark and Stephen. Caring mother-in-law of Susan Bandes. Lovi
 SILVERT-Frieda Moskalik, Ph.D. Age 80. Sociologist and author, died on November 3. She was a noted educator who taught sociology at the Institute of Sociology, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Dartmouth College, City College of New York, Brooklyn College and Sarah Lawrence University. As an activis
 SINGER-Florence. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Eugene and her family. Corey B. Rabin, President Joyce Baumgarten, Secretary       
 SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Churc
 WALSH-Rosemarie A. On Nov. 5th. Survived by Ann Wazeter, Michael M. Walsh, Esq., four nieces and nephews, many aunts, uncles, cousins, a brother and sister-inlaw. She was preceded by her parents. Harmon Funeral Home, Staten Island, NY on Wed. 2-4PM & 7-9PM. Mass on Thursday at St. Clare's o
 WEXNER-Bella. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, mother of Susan Wexner and Leslie Wexner, a true philanthropic leader whose lifelong devotion to the Jewish people was deeply felt from her own community of Columbus, Ohio
 ZEFF-Geraldine Gelfond. Our adored Cherney. She touched the lives of all who met her. To know her was to truly love her. We will sorely miss the head of our family. Joycie and Arnold Swartz Ronald and Jill Swartz Steven Swartz and Jill Gross Lisa and Alan Adler Zachary, Rochelle, Courtney, 
 EATON-Elizabeth Witsell, 75, of Manhattan, on November 4, 2001. Devoted wife of the late William Mellon Eaton. Loving mother of Carolyn, Alexander, Sarah and Lisa. Treasured grandmother of Eliza, Lily, Jay, Nina and William. Sister of Frederick C. Witsell, Jr. Avid tennis player and golfer,
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. A memorial service will be 
 JESSE-Mary Jane, M.D., November 7, 2001 in Cincinnati, OH. Born January 8th, 1918 in Owensboro, Kentucky; daughter of Ethel May and Joseph Preston Jesse. After graduation from Nazareth College and a successful career with Young and Rubicam, she began to study medicine and graduated from the
 KNIFFIN-Jean Nolan. Died on Monday, November 5, 2001 at her home in Nissequogue, New York. She was 90 years old. After graduating from Rosemary Hall, she entered the Foreign Service and for 23 years she worked in various United States Embassies-Tokyo, Costa Rica, Mexico City and Paris. In 1
 MAIER-Mary Richmond. Wife of the late John Maier, M.D., died on November 7th in Ithaca, NY, age 85. She is survived by two sons, Hugh P. of Portland, OR., and John R. of West Hartford, CT, one daughter, Jan of Manhattan, and three granddaughters. Contributions in her memory may be made to C
 NEWMAN-Mildred Rubenstein, psychologist-psychoanalyst. Born April 8, 1920 in New York City's Upper East Side, grew up on East 97th St. walking distance from where she died of pulmonary embolism on East 68th St., November 6, 2001. Survived by her husband, co-author and colleague, Dr. Bernard
 SIEGEL-Phyllis M. On November 5, 2001, at Lenox Hill Hospital, in her 86th year following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Sigmund A. Siegel, M.D. Cherished daughter of the late David and Helen Moskowitz. Devoted mother of Mark and Stephen. Caring mother-in-law of Susan Bandes. Lovi
 SILVERT-Frieda Moskalik, Ph.D. Age 80. Sociologist and author, died on November 3. She was a noted educator who taught sociology at the Institute of Sociology, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Dartmouth College, City College of New York, Brooklyn College and Sarah Lawrence University. As an activis
 SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Churc
 WERNER-Rosalind. On Tuesday, November 6, 2001, Rosalind Werner passed away after a heroic 4-1/2 year battle with pancreatic cancer. She is survived by her loving husband, Jules, sisters Gertrude Entin and Anne Zucker, children Toby Kaulkin, Linda Diaz, Roger Werner, Matthew Schneider and Ke
 WEXNER-Bella. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors & Overseers, Faculty, Administration and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of Bella Wexner, beloved mother of Leslie, Abigail and Susan Wexner. Her philan
 Mildred Rubenstein Newman, a New York psychologist whose vastly popular books helped meet an American yearning for emotional self-help and self-betterment in the 1970's, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 81. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her family said.
 BARRETT-Betty. Of NYC. A sculptor who received training at the New School for Social Research and whose works were displayed at the Library for Performing Arts, Lincoln Center, and the White House. In addition, her sculptures are represented in private collections in both the U.S. and Engla
 EHLERS-Elaine M. Age 48, of Morristown, NJ died on November 8, 2001 of metastatic melanoma. Wife of Richard Eger, daughter of Theresa & the late Francis Ehlers, sister of Frank Ehlers, Mary Ehlers Vaccarelli, and Cathie Ehlers Sayre, and aunt of Lisa, Michael, Philip and Kim, daughter-in-la
 GACH-Lilly (Brust). Died at home on November 8, 2001. She was 89 years old. She is survived by her loving daughter Eva Cooper and son-in-law Leslie. Adored grandmother of Lisa Friedland and her husband Ed Friedland. Devoted great grandmother to Adam, Peter, and Andy. Dear sister-in-law of E
 INY-Daisy. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 JESSE-Dr. Mary Jane, 83. Died peacefully in Cincinnati on November 7, surrounded by loving family. Former president of the American Heart Association, she led major divisions at Columbia Presbyterian, NIH, University of Miami & University of Cincinnati. Thousands of patients, students, coll
 LANGER-Vanessa. Of Yonkers, N.Y., an office manager for Regus on the 93rd floor of Tower 2, missing and presumed dead since September 11, 2001 in the tragedy at the World Trade Center. She was the loving wife of Timothy Joseph Langer and mother-to-be of their unborn child. She was the cheri
 LEE-Essie E. The Board of Trustees, officers, staff and residents of Odyssey House mourn the passing of Essie E. Lee, a devoted and loved member of the Odyssey House Board of Trustees for more than 15 years. Her dedication to serving the men, women, and children in treatment at Odyssey Hous
 NEWMAN-Mildred R. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and extend heartfelt sympathy to her darling Bernie, and all of their family. It is impossible to think of Mildred except in superlatives: Extraordinary presence, gifted psychotherapist, brilliant in friendship, the compleat role model,
 PLATZER-Adele. Of Lido Beach, NY. On November 7, 2001. Beloved wife of Philip. Devoted mother of Bruce and Francine Fox, Lauren Fox, and Sam and Hillary Fox. Adoring grandmother of Shelley, Jamie, Jonah, and Elijah Fox. Dear sister of Morton and Shirley Sloan, and Sydele and the late Harold
 SLANER-Luella B. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of Luella B. Slaner, generous benefactress. Her outstanding philanthropy to Mount Sinai included the establishment of the Alfred P. Slaner Professorship in Psychiatry, and other important re
 VANDER POEL-Dorothy Marlatt. On Tuesday, November 6, 2001 at her residence in Washington, DC. Beloved wife of Halsted Billings Vander Poel; devoted mother of Jane Stuart Lenzetti, Virginia Stuart Muse, Deborah Billings Jorgensen and Halsted Billings Vander Poel II; sister of Constance Huest
 WEXNER-Bella C. The Officers and Board of the Columbus Jewish Foundation mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, one of its first philanthropic fund holders. The Bella Wexner Founders Fund generously supported the Foundation's general operations and community-wide grants program. She took specia
 Patricia A. Locke, who worked for decades to preserve American Indian languages and became a pioneer in an effort to grant the tribes greater authority in the education of their children, died on Oct. 20 at a hospital in Phoenix. She was 73 and lived in Wakpala, S.D., on the Standing Rock I
 Rose Shapiro, the president of the New York City Board of Education during one of its stormiest times, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Lauderville, Fla. She was 97 and a former resident of Manhattan and Westport, Conn. Mrs. Shapiro, a campaigner for a strong parental voic
 Bella Cabakoff Wexner, a philanthropist and the matriarch of the Limited Inc., a multibillion-dollar retail chain that specializes in women's clothing, died last Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 93 and lived on the Upper East Side, where she moved from Columbus, Ohio, in
 EHLERS-Elaine. With respect, admiration and love, we extend our deepest sympathies to Dick Eger, her beloved husband and devoted companion, and to her family and friends. Forever reflecting upon her warmth & humor, her joyous and vital life, we will be renewed each day by her memory. Linda,
 EISENBERG - Viviane. Died peacefully in her sleep on November 7 at her home in Delray Beach, FL. Survived by Everett, her loving husband of many years. She was 88 years old. Viviane was a Parisienne for the first half of her life. She was a diva, as Viviane Toubiana, singing to great acclai
 FREIBERG-Janet. On November 8, 2001. Loving mother of Jill and Edward. Her goodness, warmth and humor will be greatly missed by her many friends and family. Visiting Saturday 7-9 P.M. Service Sunday, 11:45 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 KLEIN-Ruth Porter. A lifelong teacher who designed pioneering courses in reading for both remedial and advanced students, died on October 27, 2001 at the age of 88 at her home in Sarasota, Florida. Ms. Klein taught at Hewlett High School in Long Island, New York, from 1954 through 1973, and
 LEE-Essie E., Ed.D. The Board of Trustees, officers, staff and residents of Odyssey House mourn the passing of Dr. Essie E. Lee, a devoted and beloved member of the Odyssey House Board of Trustees for more than 15 years. Her dedication to serving the men, women, and children in treatment at
 POST-Blanche Simon, 78. Of West Hartford, CT and Boca Raton, died Thursday, November 8, 2001. She is survived by her husband, Herman; Robin Post and Jim Tait, Ernest Post and Luisa Lehrer, Amy & Dana Wiseman, and Laura Post and Mark Pazniokas. She is also survived by seven grandchildren & t
 ROTH-Rhea. A wonderful and loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother passed away November 7, 2001. Through her sense of humor, unique outlook on life and meaningful words of wisdom, Rhea touched the life of every person that knew her. She was a mentor and role model to all of us. Ivy
 Marian Fischman, a scientist who explored narcotics addiction by paying addicts to take heroin, cocaine and other drugs, died on Oct. 23 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan. Her husband, Dr. Herbert Kleber, said she died of complications of colon can
 EISENBERG - Viviane. Died peacefully in her sleep on November 7 at her home in Delray Beach, FL. Survived by Everett, her loving husband of many years. She was 88 years old. Viviane was a Parisienne for the first half of her life. She was a diva, as Viviane Toubiana, singing to great acclai
 ELSTEIN-Alice L. Never without a smile, she died peacefully on October 28th. She collected friends and kept them for life. One of the funniest people we ever met, she wrote colorful, witty work. Honest, generous, accepting, she looked for the best in people. Graduated with honors from Queen
 FARBER-Mimi. Age 90. Died peacefully at home November 5, 2001. Wife of the late Irving Farber. Beloved mother of Howard (Pat). Adored grandmother of Lori and Abbey. Great grandmother of Leah. A great lady of humor and kindness, she will be greatly missed. Donations to Cancer Care, 275 7th A
 FREIBERG-Janet. On November 8, 2001. Loving mother of Jill and Edward. Her goodness, warmth and humor will be greatly missed by her many friends and family. Visiting Saturday 7-9 P.M. Service Sunday, 11:45 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. FREIBERG-Janet. Novembe
 JACOBS-Ethel D. 91, passed away in the loving arms of her family in Miami Beach, Florida, at Mount Sinai Medical Center on November 9, 2001, after a brief illness. Born March 18, 1910, in Yonkers, New York, she was a longtime resident of Forest Hills, New York, and Bal Harbour, Florida. Pre
 JESSE-Dr. Mary Jane, 83. Died peacefully in Cincinnati on November 7, surrounded by loving family. Former president of the American Heart Association, she led major divisions at Columbia Presbyterian, NIH, University of Miami & University of Cincinnati. Thousands of patients, students, coll
 LOWENHERZ-Estelle. Died November 6 at age 99. She leaves her loving son Jack, daughter-in-law Lila, sister-in-law Lisel, grandchildren Mark, Jennifer, Geraldine, and many devoted friends. There will be no public service.       
 MORGANSTERN - Mildred. Be loved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Gerald and Karen, and Andy and Carol. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Bradley, Rachel and Jaime. Dear aunt. Adored sister-in-law of Murry Morgenstern and Seymour Klass. Contributions to The Bridge, Inc. 248 West 108 S
 PLATZER-Adele. Of Lido Beach, NY. On November 7, 2001. Beloved wife of Philip. Devoted mother of Bruce and Francine Fox, Lauren Fox, and Sam and Hillary Fox. Adoring grandmother of Shelley, Jamie, Jonah, and Elijah Fox. Dear sister of Morton and Shirley Sloan, and Sydele and the late Harold
 POPE-Annemarie Henle. Of Washington D.C. Founder and President of the International Exhibitions Foundation. Wife of the late John Alexander Pope, former Director of the Freer Gallery of Art. She is survived by her stepchildren, Sara Pope Cooper of Elburn IL and John A. Pope Jr. of Manhattan
 SOLOMON-Grace. Age 94. Passed away November 2, 2001. Born and lived in New York City. Her home for the past five years: The Jewish Home and Hospital Nursing Facility, Bronx, New York. Survived by her loving son Richard and her sister Helen.       
 SYKES-Lois (Farnsworth). 59, of Bronxville, New York, and formerly of New Canaan, CT, and Dallas, TX, died on November 9 at Hammond Pointe Nursing Home in Chestnut Hill, MA, from complications of Lupus. Daughter of the late Kenneth C. Farnsworth, MD, and Marguerite (Pelksy) Farnsworth. Lovi
 WALSHON-Caren. (nee Greenberg). Beloved daughter of Gloria and the late Paul. She fought valiantly for two years to win the battle of breast cancer and lost. Loving sister of Jay and Arthur. Her life were her children Megan and Zak. Funeral Tuesday November 13, 11 AM at Temple Israel in Wes
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. A memorial service will be 
 HURWITZ-Ann Isserlis. Died on November 8, 2001, in Boynton Beach, FL. Loving wife of Herbert Hurwitz. Beloved mother of Martin Isserlis (Judythe), Joan Isserlis and Robin Isserlis. She had a full and wonderful life truncated by Alzheimers disease. Shiva at Martin's residence in Manhattan.  
 PLATZER-Adele. The Board of Directors of the Light of Life Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of Adele Platzer. Adele was committed to patient support and research for thyroid cancer treatment and cure. Our deepest sympathies to her husband, Phil Platzer, and to her children, Laure
 Ruth Limmer, an authority on the poet Louise Bogan, died on Oct. 31 at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was a brain inflammation, said David Bauer, a friend. Ms. Limmer edited three volumes of Bogan's writing, including her autobiographical ''Journey Around My Ro
 Carrie Donovan, a fashion editor who could easily have rested on her laurels and leopard skins but came out of semiretirement to find a new and even more enthusiastic audience as ''the lady from Old Navy,'' died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 73. She had been ailing for several mon
 Dorothy Dunnett, a Scottish historical novelist whose weighty works about Renaissance life attracted swarms of devoted fans in the United States, died on Friday in Edinburgh. She was 78. Her best-known works, ''The Lymond Chronicles'' in six books and ''The House of Niccolò'' in ei
 AMILL-Nancy Jayne, 68. Of Weston, CT, died on November 11, 2001 at home. Graduate of Brown University, beloved wife for 46 years of Richard, mother of Andrew, Alexander, & Sally. Grandmother of Ryan, Jarrett, Sean, and Kennison. Interment will be private. Contributions in her memory may be 
 GAY-Elizabeth ''Lillian''. On November 10, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William ''Bill''. Survived by her sister Katherine Hoban and many nieces & nephews. Visiting today 2-5 and 7-9 PM at the Nagel Funeral Home, 352 East 87 St., NYC. Funeral Mass Wednesday 10 AM at the Holy Name Church, 
 GILDIN-Lucille. We mourn the passing of our sister-in-law Lucille on November 12, 2001. She was a lovely, bright mother of three and grandmother of six. She was devoted to the State of Israel, Riverdale Mental Health & caring for the welfare of all. The funeral will be held on Wednesday Nov
 GRUNEBAUM - Anneliese E. Peacefully on November 3, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved widow of Kurt H. Grunebaum. Loving mother of Peter. Proud grandmother of George, Nicole and Danielle. Devoted great-grandmother of Marcus, Sebastian, Annabel, Solene and Charlotte. A memorial service will be 
 LEE-Essie E. The faculty and alumni of the Hunter College Program in Urban Public Health mourn the death and send condolences to the family of our colleague, Essie E. Lee. Professor Lee served as mentor to hundreds of students and contributed to the prevention and treatment of alcoholism. W
 MEAD-Rosemary Dooley. On November 12, 2001 of Garden City. Wife of the late Nicholas. Loving mother of Mary Sinatra Rutman, Michael, David, Nicholas, Rosemary Trompeter and Geraldine Allen. Proud grandmother of 13 grandchildren. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave. at 12th Street
 SICHER-Ann B. Died peacefully on November 11, 2001. She was a lifelong resident of New York City and was predeceased by her husband, the late William D. Sicher. She is survived by her former husband, Richard Weinreich. She is survived by her sons, David Sicher of New York, and Steven Sicher
 STELZER-Ruth Sondra (nee Miness). Of Roslyn, New York, died on November 11, 2001. Beloved wife of Edward, treasured mother of Stephen Stelzer, and Barbara Friedman, loving mother-in-law to Lenny Friedman, and Francie Lyshak-Stelzer, adored grandmother of Andrew Stelzer, and Emily and Noah F
 SUMNER-Janet. The Amateur Comedy Club records with sorrow the passing on October 31st of its esteemed Honorary Associate Member and former Administrator. Janet came to the Club in 1993 and for more than five years looked after, befriended and laughed with us. A lover of cabaret, nightlife a
 SZUMLAK-David. Ariel American Friends of Midrasha and United Israel Institutions express sincerest condolences to Gail Weisbrod, wife of our dedicated supporter and Guest of Honor Michael B. Weisbrod on the passing of her dear father, David Szumlak. May the entire family be comforted among 
 CHOATE-Eloise Weld. On November 12, 2001. Wife of the late Arthur O. Choate. She is survived by her son, Dr. William L. Elkins, Jr. of Coatesville, PA., daughter Carol Elkins of New York City, seven grandchildren, twelve great grandchildren, and her sisters Priscilla W. Grosjean of Haverfor
 de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. Our hearts are weeping over the loss of our good friend, Debra de Rothschild, dear departed wife of our Executive Committee Member and Founders Society Co-Chairman, Robert de Rothschild, and mother of sweet little Jacob Alain. Debra brightened any room she entered, and 
 KORNREICH-Doris J. (nee Greenberg) aka Doris Schwarz and Doris Deutsch. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Kornreich, loving mother of Ronald and Richard Deutsch, devoted sister of Sissy Greenberg, adored aunt, cousin and wonderful friend to many. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Cam
 SPECTOR-Shirley Albert. Piano teacher, of Jamaica, New York, formerly of Lawrence, MA, died at her home on November 11th. Survived by daughter Maria, son Nicholas, grandchildren Jessica and Sonja, and sister Marilyn. Services in Lawrence, MA.       
 SZUMLAK-David. The Jerusalem Fellowships and Aish HaTorah wish to extend heartfelt condolences to Gail Weisbrod on the loss of her father David Szumlak. May she and her husband Michael and their children Yehuda and Sabrina be comforted among the other mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 WEXNER-Bella. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of the Leo Yassenoff Jewish Community Center of Greater Columbus mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, mother of Leslie Wexner and Susan Wexner, a true philanthropist, a leader whose lifelong devotion to the Jewish Community throughout th
 de ROTHSCHILD-Debra Elisa, 42 years old, on November 13, 2001. Debra, beloved wife of Robert de Rothschild, mother of Jacob Alain de Rothschild, daughter of Leonard and Ileen Cohen, sister of Joel M. Cohen, aunt, niece, cousin and sister-in-law to many, loved and revered by all. Debra gradu
 KORN-Edith. On Nov. 12, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Robert Korn, dear mother of William (Adrian), Robert and Edward. Cherished grandmother of Rebecca & Emily. Dear sister of Malcolm Lieberman. In her life a painter, sculptor, dancer and teacher. She was a graduate of Hunter College Class
 KORNREICH-Doris J. IHF is greatly saddened by her passing. She was an active committee member. Her humanitarism and concerned support for the less fortunate were an inspiration. Israel Humanitarian Foundation Marvin M. Sirota, President Stanley J. Abrams, Exec. V.P. Robert B. Levy, Exec. Di
 COYLE-Doris Dow. On November 14, 2001 at age 91. Aunt of Jean Schiller. Cousin of Thelma Beattie, Donna Beattie, Inez and Linwood Hayden, Herbert Dow and Walter Dow of Maine. A close friend of Marguerite Sheridan, Delphine Keathly and Lucille Harkless. A graveside service will be held on Mo
 DONOVAN - Carrie. Parsons School of Design and New School University mourn the passing of our esteemed alumna and fashion leader, Carrie Donovan. We send deepest sympathies to her sister, Joan Donovan. President Bob Kerrey, New School University Chairman Arnold Aronson, Parsons Board of Gov
 JESSE-Mary Jane. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons and the Babies Hospital Alumni Association wish to express our heartfelt sorrow and condolences to the family of Mary Jane Jesse, MD. Following a successful caree
 PEARCEY-Violet Hall. On September 26, 2001, of New York City, passed away at the age of 89. She is survived by her sister, Rose Hall of New York; cousin, Cameron (Maggie) Moseley & niece, Peggy of Connecticut; stepdaughters, Joan (Eric) Cooke of Edmonton, Alberta; Lynn (George) Allen of Mos
 POSTER-Muriel. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of many years and so many fond memories. Muriel was a true lady and the life of the party. It will never be the same without her. ''Table number 7''..Serko-Feldman Todrys-Davis-Bagley       
 REDDING-Esther J., 94. On November 12, 2001 in La Mesa, California. Devoted wife and mother. She is survived by sons Conway and Lewis.       
 SICHER-Ann B. The Lenox Hill Hospital Auxiliary mourns the loss of its longtime member and past chairman, Ann B. Sicher. Ann was a devoted friend of Lenox Hill Hospital and will be deeply missed by all who knew her. Katherine T. McEnroe Chairman Lenox Hill Hospital Auxiliary       
 SLANER-Luella B. The Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science of Columbia University mourn the passing of Luella B. Slaner, a special friend and benefactor. Among her many acts of philanthropy, her gifts to Columbi
 WEXNER-Bella. Thank you. It is with great sadness that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of Bella Wexner, a dear friend and generous contributor in support of HIAS' mission of rescue, reunion & resettlement. Her warmth and compassion will be sorely missed. Our heartf
 Peggy Mount, for many years the fearsome battle-ax of British stage and screen with a voice to make henpecked husbands tremble, died on Tuesday at a London nursing home for actors. She was 85. Although best known for her bullying, harridan roles, Ms. Mount was also successful in cla
 Mitzi Myers, an internationally recognized authority on children's literature and a longtime lecturer at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Nov. 5 at her temporary residence in Anaheim Hills, Calif. She was 62. The cause was complications from pneumonia she contrac
 DONOHUE-Barbara Sanford. Of Bronxville and Germantown, NY, died at home on November 15, 2001. She was 59 years old. Barbara attended Scarsdale schools, The Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, PA, and received a Bachelor of Arts from Smith College and a Master's degree from the Hunter School of Soc
 SOLYOM-Edna (Lazar). Age 95, widow of the late Richard Solyom and the late Maurice Cashman, passed away on November 14, 2001. Devoted mother of Joan Cashman and the late Mary Faith Lang, grandmother of Richard and Georgiana Lang, great-grandmother of Melissa Lang & Caitlin and Sarah Lang. M
 WEXNER - Bella. Schottenstein Chabad House mourns the passing of Bella Wexner, a visionary both in the business world and in philanthropic causes. She was an extremely kind and gracious lady who was passionate about helping others. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Wexner fa
 BEERMAN-Ann, 98. Died Wednesday November 7, 2001, in Tulsa, OK. Born February 3, 1903 in Brooklyn, NY to parents, Louis & Dora Lapinsky Secan. Married Abraham on November 27, 1927 in Brooklyn, NY. Abraham preceded her in death December 30, 1968. Ann moved to Tulsa in 1981 and is survived by
 BOWIE-Janet W. Of New Hyde Park, on November 13, 2001 in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Bruce and mother-in-law of Carol. Beloved grandmother of John. Loving sister of Jean. Loving friend of Eileen & Jamie. A memorial mass will be held Saturday, November 24, 
 BRAVERMAN-Rose. We will all miss her strength, loyalty, humor and love. Her Friends       
 CHU-Wu Ping. Peacefully, at home, on November 16, two months short of 101. Deeply beloved mother of John, Yvonne (Meinwald), Theodore, Joan (Fu); grandmother of Barbara, David, Anne (Chu), Constance, Pamela (Meinwald); great-grandmother of Ethan, Benjamin, Beatrix. Funeral private. Intermen
 de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. Died the 13th of November, 2001, at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York. Wife of Robert de Rothschild. Mother of Jacob Alain, her two year old son. Daughter of Leonard and Ileen Cohen. Daughter-in-law of Baroness Alain de Rothschild. Sister and sister-in-law to Joel and Kary
 DONOHUE-Barbara Sanford. Of Bronxville and Germantown, NY, died at home on November 15, 2001. She was 59 years old. She was married for 23 years to A. James Donohue, an investment banker, who died in 1995. She is survived by her three children, Benjamin, Claire and Michael, and her father, 
 KAHAN-Myra. Of Fire Island Pines, NY, and Edgewater, NJ, on November 12, 2001. A humanitarian, a philanthropist, a spokesperson for the rights of pets and worked to rescue and reunite lost or abandoned animals. Survived by Cappy Hanlan-Proud of her mother and guided by Myra to the many wind
 KATCHER-Cassie. A 20-year resident of New Rochelle, NY died Friday November 9, 2001, at the age of 92. Mrs. Katcher was a graduate of Teacher's College, Columbia University and taught for many years in both the New York City and Westchester County School Systems. Mrs. Katcher's husband Monr
 KUDISCH-Doris Rice. November 16, at the age of 84, died on date of heart failure in San Francisco, CA, where she had lived since 1995. Mrs. Kudisch was the widow of Leonard Kudisch. She was passionately devoted to her family, her brother, sisters, nieces and nephews; to her two daughters, D
 MILLER-Esther Lamm. Of Boca Raton, FL, on Nov. 13. Beloved mother of Marlene Spigner & the late Stephen Lamm. Dear sister of Tessie Soloway. Sweetest Nana and Great Grandma. She leaves us with glorious memories.       
 RINGEL-Lucille. Professor Emerita Cleveland State University, educator, mathematician, researcher, graduate Douglass, Bank Street and Cornell, teacher and volunteer tutor in NYC, dance enthusiast, beloved sister, cousin and aunt, died at age 83, Oct. 23, Medford Leas, NJ. Contributions in h
 RIVERA-Carmen A. On September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center tragedy. Beloved wife of Luis Rivera. Devoted mother of Racine, Luis, Jr. and Britney. Cherished daughter of Ada Lopez. Also survived by Sal and Angel, loving daughter-in-law of Enrique and Raquel Rivera. Carmen wore many hats
 ROSENBLUM-Syd (nee Kamerman). Died peacefully November 14, 2001 in North Miami, FL. Former Manhattanite. Widow of Mike Rosenblum. Survived by sister, Lillie Retter. Spectacular aunt to many nieces and nephews who adored her and were awed by her. She lived intensely for 95 years.       
 ROSSKOPF-Frances M. (Betty). Died on October 25, 2001, at her home in Jackson, California. A longtime resident of Manhattan, Hastings-on-Hudson, and Ridgefield, Connecticut, she spent most of her later years in Sarasota, Florida. She was the widow of mathematics educator Myron F. Rosskopf. 
 SOLYOM-Edna (Lazar). Age 95, widow of the late Richard Solyom and the late Maurice Cashman, passed away on November 14, 2001. Devoted mother of Joan Cashman and the late Mary Faith Lang, grandmother of Richard and Georgiana Lang, great-grandmother of Melissa Lang & Caitlin and Sarah Lang. M
 WALSH-Patricia Ann. Of Palisades, NY, died at home on November 16, 2001 at the age of 50, after a courageous battle with ovarian cancer. She was the daughter of the late Anne Savino Walsh and William Walsh. Ms. Walsh held a Masters in Social Work from New York University and a Masters in Me
 WEISSMAN-Elyane. On Nov. 9, 2001. Survived by her children Amy, Beverly and Lewis. Beloved grandmother of Jacklyn, Jonathan, Cory, Martin, Ashley & Martin. She will be greatly missed.       
 WEXNER-Bella. We join with world Jewry in mourning the loss of Bella Wexner, a wonderful friend of the Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem. Through her special efforts, Jewish educators from Columbus, Ohio have been able to enrich the depth of their experience and learning and t
 BERGER-Rita H. Died at home on November 16, 2001, after a brief illness. Born 1912, in Poland, she grew up and completed medical studies in Vienna. She came to the United States in 1941. In the U.S. she pursued medical research and served for many years as a volunteer woking with metally il
 CHU-Wu-Ping. Peacefully, at home, on November 16, two months short of 101. Deeply beloved mother of John, Yvonne (Meinwald), Theodore, Joan (Fu); grandmother of Barbara, David, Anne (Chu), Constance, Pamela (Meinwald); great-grandmother of Ethan, Benjamin, Beatrix. Funeral private. Intermen
 DONOHUE-Barbara Sanford. Of Bronxville and Germantown, NY, died at home on November 15, 2001. She was 59 years old. She was married for 23 years to A. James Donohue, an investment banker, who died in 1995. She is survived by her three children, Benjamin, Claire and Michael, and her father, 
 EISNER - Margaret Wallace. Greensboro, VT. 80, at her home, November 17. Survived by husband William; sons William Jr., James, Peter; five grandchildren. Services: 10 AM, December 1, des Groseilliers Funeral Home, Hardwick, VT.       
 FAJNSOD-Eleanore. We mourn her passing on November 13, 2001, after a tenacious battle against pancreatic cancer. Elly was born December 26, 1938, in Brooklyn, daughter of Irving and Rae (Widomlansky) Wilkes, and graduated Thomas Jefferson H.S. While living in the Glenwood Projects, she work
 FONTAKIS-Deborah J. (nee Conaty). On November 12, 2001, of Floral Park, NY. Flight attendant on American Airlines Flight 587. Survived by devoted husband Steven, loving children Christopher and Stefanie. Cherished daughter of Rose and the late James D. Conaty. Beloved sister of Barbara Crui
 KAPLAN-Nancy. 56, of Irvington, NY, died Sunday of cancer. At the time of her death, she was an adjunct assistant professor of education at Pace University, an instructor for the Science Leadership Institute at Purchase College, and a docent at the American Museum of Natural History. She is
 LEVINSON-Jo List. On Saturday, November 17th. Cherished mother of Dinse Israel of Zichron Ya'akov, Israel, the late Michael Israel, Debbie and Chip Weber of Orange, CT, Jo and Daniel Levinson of Westport, CT, and Donna and Jonathan Levinson of New Rochelle, NY. Adored daughter of Vera G. an
 SAPADIN-Lottie. Died on November 15, 2001, of pancreatic cancer. She was the beloved wife of Elmer and the loving mother of Randall, Michael and Janet, and their spouses Phyllis, Rosa and John. She is also survived by five grandchildren, Joshua, Jeremy, Danielle, Anya and Eliza, and her bro
 SCHREIBER - Evelyn Morgen stern. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its devoted member, Avram Schreiber. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 THORBECKE - HOCHWALD - Jea nette, M.D., Ph.D. Wife of Gerald Hochwald, M.D. Loving mother of Bertrand, Neal and Steven. Cherished grandmother and friend. Died unexpectedly on Friday, November 16, 2001. Born in the Netherlands and resident of Douglaston, Queens, NY. She was Professor of Path
 WALKER-Bernice R. (nee Rolf). In New Haven, CT, on November 12, 2001, of Leeder Hill Drive, Hamden, CT. Beloved wife of the late Charles Allen Walker and loving mother of Allen, John and Larry. Cherished grandmother of Karin, Jessica, Courtney and Meredith. Born in New Sweden, TX, Bernice g
 ZALK-Kayla Kazahn. Of Newton, MA, formerly of NYC. 70 years old. Devoted mother of Jason and the late Mara Zalk, beloved sister of Sandra Kazahn Masur and aunt of Josh and Ted Masur. Charismatic teacher. Interment on Friday, November 23, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Donation
 BERGER-Rita H. Died at home on November 17, 2001, after a brief illness. Services at 11:30 A.M., November 20, at The Riverside, 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue. BERGER-Rita. The clients, Board and staff of The Bridge, Inc. are profoundly saddened by the death of Rita Berger, devoted 
 CHU-Wu-Ping. Peacefully, at home, on November 16, two months short of 101. Deeply beloved mother of John, Yvonne (Meinwald), Theodore, Joan (Fu); grandmother of Barbara, David, Anne (Chu), Constance, Pamela (Meinwald); great-grandmother of Ethan, Benjamin, Beatrix. Funeral private. Intermen
 DRUIN-Marilyn L. (nee Lefkowitz). Of Avon-by-the-Sea, New Jersey, Sunday, November 18, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Melvin L. Druin. Devoted mother of Dr. Allison Druin Bederson and her husband Dr. Ben Bederson, Erica Druin and Lauren Druin Griffin and her husband Tom. Cherished grandmother of
 ELYACHAR-Anna Tulin. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are deeply saddened by the loss of Anna Tulin Elyachar, an ardent supporter of the ATS, the Technion and Israel for more than half a century. Mrs. Elyachar became a devoted Zionist and ATS supporter al
 JULIUS-Rose, 97. Peacefully in her sleep. Widow of Rev. Henry of the Jewish Center. Loved her family, synagogue, Amit Women, city, and the world around her. Wise and witty, she was a good and generous friend. Her spirit lives through her son Al (Avy), daughter Elanor Reiter, five grandchild
 KAPLAN-Nancy. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Nancy Kaplan on Sunday, November 18th. We express our deepest sympathies to her husband, our friend and former partner, Judge Lewis A. Kaplan, and
 KONECKY-Lewis. The National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of Lewis Konecky, devoted husband of Cyrena, and beloved father of Dr. Priscilla (Dr. Marc Tepper), Dr. Elizabeth (Yaakov Kronfeld), and Dr. Margaret (Dr. Larry Osher). Elizabeth, a valued member of NJOP's Board o
 LEVINSON-Jo List. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., expresses its sorrow at the passing of Jo List Levinson, beloved daughter of Vera G. List, a Guardian of Tomorrow; cherished sister of Olga List Mack; a member of our National Board; beloved mother of Dinse Israe
 PHELPS-Eleanor, 94. September 29, of Gouldsboro, PA, formerly of Manhattan. Mother of Lisa Hebo. She made her Broadway debut in 1929; appeared in 24 Broadway shows, tours, radio, daytime dramas, commercials and films. Memorial mass, at Blessed Sacrament Church, 131 West 71st St, Saturday, D
 ROSENBLUM-Marie Eva. Survived by her daughter Roberta Shapiro, three sisters, Dr. Grace Kay, Albertine Reuter, and Rosalie Grabel, three grandchildren and three great-grandchilren. Memorial contributions may be made to Hospital Audiences Inc. (HAI), 548 Broadway, 3rd floor, New York, NY 100
 SCHREIBER-Evelyn. AMIT is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our most beloved, dedicated, devoted and pioneering Honorary President, magnanimous patron of AMIT's needy children in Israel, and cherished mother-inlaw of Elaine Schreiber, AMIT Southwest Regional Vice President. A true 
 SHERMAN-Beulah. Born and lived her entire life of 82 years in Lawrence. Her father was a founder and past President of Shaary Tefila. As well, her active life included the synagogue and she was a long time participant as a volunteer in Peninsula General Hospital. Devoted wife of the late Ma
 TARLER-Harriette. Died on November 18, 2001. Born in NYC, she moved to Los Angeles where she became a Hollywood actress. Her most notable credits include ''Joker is Wild'' with Frank Sinatra, many episodes of ''Dragnet'' and over 14 Three Stooges films. She returned to NYC in the 1960's whe
 THORBECKE - HOCHWALD - G. Jeanette, MD, died November 16, 2001. The trustees, faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the tragic loss of our friend and colleague, G. Jeanette Thorbecke-Hochwald, MD, Professor of Pathology. A distinguished member of the Department of Pathology for 
 TULIN-ELYACHAR-Anna. On November 18th, at 97, in NYC. Survived by 3 nieces in Germany, where she was born in 1903; by loving relatives of Abraham Tulin, her first husband who died in 1972; and by the family of her second husband, Col. J.R. Elyachar, who died in 1989. Services Wednesday, 11:
 CHU-Wu Ping. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine note with sadness the passing of Wu Ping Chu. Her personal generosity and the generosity of her family to The Lillian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute helped further M
 ELYACHAR-Anna Tulin. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a distinguished communal leader who, with her late, beloved husband Colonel Jehiel R. Elyachar, was a YU Benefactor. Her participation and interest in Yeshiva University over the years will be sorely mis
 GOLDWEBER-Dorothy Fisher. Beloved wife of Max, devoted mother of Elyse and Ann, adoring grandmother of Gabrielle, and loving mother-in-law of David and Terry, died November 19, 2001 at the age of 81. A long time resident of Westbury, Long Island, Dorothy grew up in Newport News, VA, and was
 LEVINSON-Jo List. The community of West End Synagogue mourns the death of our member Jo Levinson and extends its condolences to her mother, sisters, children and grandchildren. Committed and caring, she will be sorely missed. West End Synagogue: A Reconstructionist Congregation Rabbi Yael R
 LINCHYTZ-Mindee. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Mindee Linchytz. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her husband and to her entire family.       
 LINCHYTZ-Mindy. My heart and tears are with you. The pain of losing Mindy is so sad for the many people who loved her. Kathy Reichenbaum       
 McKENNA-Catherine. November 19, 2001. Native of County Monaghan, Ireland. Beloved sister of the late Mary McEneany. Loving aunt of Sr. Mary Carmel, O.P., Kathleen Singer, Edward J. McEneany and Sr. Barbara McEneany, O.P. Also survived by several nieces and nephews in Ireland and England. Fa
 ROSENTHAL-Victoria. On November 18, 2001 at age 83. Her husband, M.L. Rosenthal, a writer & poetry critic, predeceased her in 1996. Survived by her son Alan Rosenthal, daughter Laura McGarry, brother Julius Hemmelstein, grandchildren Daniel Rosenthal, Margaret McGarry, James McGarry and Jul
 SCHREIBER - Evelyn Morgen stern, November 16, 2001. Graduate of Brooklyn College, Valedictorian and Propellea Society, with MA. in Geology. National President of Amit Women 1973-1975. Wife of the late Louis J., mother of Saul, Phoenix, AZ; Honey Levinson, West Hempstead; Avram, New York; Si
 SEID-Rose. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Rose Seid and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Irving and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 SONDE-Anne. Of New York and Maryland, died peacefully in her Maryland home on November 19, 2001. She was 89 years old and a retired New york City school teacher. She is survived by her beloved sister Lillian Kaufman, her devoted children Ted, Clive, Diane and their spouses, Susan, Vicky and
 YARIN-Barbara. Of Bronxville, New York, passed away November 19, after a long illness. Beloved & devoted wife of the late Murray, loving and cherished mother of Susan, Daniel (Louise). Adoring and much loved sister of Howard (Helen) Glick, sister-in-law (Cynthia and Jack, Marvin & Susan Yar
 LYON-Andy Logan. November 21, 2000. Whose incisive coverage of New York City politics inspired over a generation of New Yorker magazine readers. A revered colleague to the ''kids down at City Hall,'' loved by family and friends. She is missed. Brooks, Jon, and Emily       
 Charlotte Coleman, a British film actress best remembered in the United States as Scarlett, the cheerily punkish roommate of Hugh Grant's Charles in the 1994 comedy ''Four Weddings and a Funeral,'' died on Nov. 14 at her home in London. She was 33. The cause was an asthma attack, ne
 BARBERA-Amparo Sanchez. On November 15, 2001 in Valencia, Spain. The entire CMA family mourns the passing of the mother of its President, Jose Juan Sanchez. May her entire family be comforted, as death does not exist it is just a pathway to heaven.       
 BROWNE-Leona E. On Wednesday, November 21, 2001 of Wayne, NJ. For 18 years a 4th grade teacher at St. Anthony Padua School in Butler, NJ. Beloved wife for 38 years of Kenneth P. Browne; loving mother of Christine Buonpastore and her husband Anthony, Kenneth G. and Christopher Browne; cheris
 CAPA-Edith. The Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our Founder, Cornell Capa. His partner throughout a long and loving marriage, Edie also supported and nurtured the endeavors of all the ICP staff from the start of this ins
 HALPERN-Miriam. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, longtime member, Miriam Halpern. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her niece, Susie Quill, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 STRUHL-Anne. Our warmest condolences to Bernard Struhl and the whole Struhl family on the passing of your beloved Annie. We will miss her. Bezzy, Rivka, Boaz, Lisa, Avner, Tami, and Jeremy       
 WIENER-Gertrude Rodman. On Nov. 20, 2001 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Alexander S. Wiener. Beloved mother of Jane Einhorn & the late Barbara Krevit. Adored grandmother of Gretchen, Nina, David, Ilana and Edward. Loving great-grandmother of 12 children. Business manager of her hus
 Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963, and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died yesterday at her home in Dallas. She was 83. She died of nat
 GARRATY-Rita Angelo. On November 22, 2001 at age 71. Beloved wife of John. Loving mother of Marco Angelo and grandmother of Danielle, Nicholas and Natalie. Devoted sister of Dorothy Gold. Graveside service is at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York, Sunday 1:00 PM. GARRATY-Ri
 STRUHL-Anne. The Yeshiva of North Jersey, its Executive Board, Board of Directors, faculty and student body mourn the loss of Anne Struhl, matriarch of the Yeshiva's first family, who along with her late husband Teddy, and children and grandchildren, have been the life blood of the Yeshiva 
 Edith Schwartz Capa, who helped found the International Center of Photography in Manhattan in 1974, died Wednesday at her Midtown home. She was 88. She laid the foundations of the center's collections as the wife of Cornell Capa, an international photographer and its founding direct
 Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963 and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died Thursday at her home in Dallas. She was 83. She died of natur
 BERGER-Annette. 77, of Fort Lee and formerly Teaneck, NJ, died Nov. 19, 2001. Annette awaited her childhood sweetheart's return from World War II to become a loving wife to Leon Berger for 56 years and a devoted mother to Douglas and the late Andrew Berger. She is also survived by brother, 
 CAPA-Edith. The Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our Founder, Cornell Capa. His partner throughout a long and loving marriage, Edie also supported and nurtured the endeavors of all the ICP staff from the start of this ins
 LEVINE-Alice Kreindler. Died on November 22, 2001. Loving wife of Burton Levine and caring mother of Peter Levine, Nancy Huggins, & Patty Pensak; doting grandmother to Shanon, Jeremy, Carrie, Josh, Sara, Erin, and Dustin; and great grandmother to Anna & Andrew; dear sister to Betty Streim. 
 SLOANE-Hermine Patricia, 67. Passed away suddenly November 22, 2001. Dr. Sloane was a painter, an author, filmmaker, and a professor of fine arts at NYC Technical College-CUNY. Dr. Sloane's books included topics on fine arts, art history, principles of color, and the works of T.S. Elliot. D
 STRUHL-Anne. The Yeshiva High School Board of Directors, Faculty and Students mourn the loss of the Struhl family matriarch. By her example, Anne Struhl taught her family the importance of being leaders in Jewish education. Her legacy is immortalized in her children, grandchildren and great
 BERGEIM-Hildegarde E. Formerly of Greenwich Village, died Tuesday, in Pennsylvania. She received her architectural degree from the Univeristy of Illinois and later became a Fulbright Scholar. She was an architect for Philip Johnson and Edward Larrabee Barnes. Survived by brother-in-law Haro
 CHARNAS-Juliet. 100, on November 21. Survived by her sister Lila Obletz, sons Stephen and Jonathan, daughter-in-law Suzy, grandchildren Charles and Joanna, and great-grandchildren. A loving, sacrificing, elegant mother, and wife of the late attorney, Theodore Charnas. Memorial service Sunda
 CITRIN-Ceil. 90, on October 26, 2001, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of NYC. Devoted wife of the late Max Citrin, adored mother of Beverly Sunshine, Stuart Citrin and Marlene Borey. Dear mother-inlaw of Dr. Ian Sunshine and George S. Borey, Esq. Loving grandmother of Toby (Ken Savell), Jon
 GOLDMAN-Lucille I., DPM. Died at age 85, November 10, 2001. Wife of the late Milton Sanes Goldman, M.D., mother of Rose H. Goldman, M.D., and Lynne E. Goldman, sonin-law Alan Drabkin, and sister of David S. Werman, M.D., Grandmother of Miles, Anya and Ben. She will be deeply missed by lovin
 KERNER-Margaret (Peggy) (nee Hans). Age 75, on November 23, 2001, lost a nine-year, valiant fight against breast cancer. Beloved wife of Lawrence A. Kerner, devoted mother of Ellen Girardi (Michael), Nancy Barton (Patrick) and Richard J. Kerner. Adored grandmtoher of Jessica and Nicole Gira
 KRAMON-Florence Simet. The world lost a fabulous women Friday November 23rd when Florence Simet - Kramon - Peate passed away. Loving mother of Falene and Paul Gottbetter and Linda and Bruce Klein. Devoted grandmother of Franklyn and Tracy Gottbetter, Adam and Lori Gottbetter, and Vanessa Kl
 KUSHEL-Lillian. 86, on November 23rd, 2001. Beloved wife of Bernard, devoted mother of Kenneth, cherished grandmother of Marika. Sister of Milton Shapiro, the late Miriam Fox, Edwin Shapiro, and Adele Leonard. She was a revered professor of fashion, buying, and merchandising for over forty 
 MAGGIOLO-Mary. On November 22, 2001. Beloved aunt and greataunt. She will be remembered and loved. Reposing Stout Funeral Service, Inc., 352 E. 87 St, NYC on Monday November 26, 2001 from 1-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday 10AM, Our Lady of Good Counsel Church. Interment Calve
 MARCUS-Harriett. On November 23, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Carl. Loving aunt of Sandy Ward, Ani Hurwitz, Ray Ward and Leah Fineberg. Service Sunday 1PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. MARCUS-Harriett. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime 
 PRINCE-Elaine Corinne (Katzberg). Beloved wife and mother, quintessential New Yorker, retired at age 79, just two years ago. She spent a lifetime of rejoicing in New York's culture and atmosphere, going to the opera, visiting museums and possessing an encyclopedic knowledge of every great l
 SELLER-Shirley. On November 22, 2001. Beloved wife of Marvin. Devoted mother to Larry & Meri, grandmother to Hannah, Jacob, Sheryl and Stephanie. We will miss her sharp wit, generous spirit and unconditional love. Service Edwin L. Bennett, 824 Scarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, NY, November 25, 1:3
 SLOANE-Hermine Patricia, 67. Passed away suddenly November 22, 2001. Dr. Sloane was a painter, an author, filmmaker, and a professor of fine arts at NYC Technical College-CUNY. Dr. Sloane's books included topics on fine arts, art history, principles of color, and the works of T.S. Elliot. D
 SOBELMAN-Dayna Lynne. Age 35, of Tampa, FL, died November 21, 2001, as a result of an automobile accident. Dayna was born in Brooklyn, NY. Survivors include her mother Goldie Lang of Delray Beach, FL, father Alan Sobelman of Tappan, NJ, sister and brotherin-law Gayle & Ted Millison of Tampa
 WHITING-Jane (nee Rendleman). Of Rochester, NY, on November 21st, 2001. Beloved wife of Alan. Loving of mother of Judy (Arthur Baer), Nancy Adams (Brian), and Emily (Christa Torrens). Grandmother of Audrey and Evan Adams. Jane was raised in Anna, IL, graduated with honors from the Unversity
 WILLIAMS-Dolores Clarke. A memorial service will be held for Dolores Clarke Williams (''Dee'') at The Cathedral of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street, on December 17, 2001 at 12:00 Noon. She passed away on Wednesday, November 14 at Long Island College Hospital in Bro
 ELLIOTT-Margaret K. Of Key Biscayne, FL, and Mt. Kisco, NY, died at home on November 22. The wife of Michael S., and the beloved mother of Jessica and Michael C. Elliott. Margaret was the daughter of Marguerite Kirby and the late Charles F. Kirby. She is also survived by her sister Marie Br
 JONES-Mary Myers,l71. Of Albany, NY, November 19 after a courageous battle with cancer. A longtime resident of Woodstock, NY, she was the daughter of the late Howard Myers, publisher of the Architectural Forum, and Louise W. Myers. She attended the Brearley School and Bard College. She is s
 KRAMON-Florence. NCJW, New York Section, is saddened by the passing of our former vice president and Board member. Sincerist condolences to her family. Rita Fishman, President Judith Golub, Exec. Dir.       
 LIEBERMAN-Nettie. A retired New York City school teacher, died suddenly at her home on November 23. She was predeceased by her husband, David, and son, Daniel. She will be missed by her many relatives and friends.       
 MALAKOFF-Lois Maurer. On November 25, 2001. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Michelle. Dear sister of Betty Danielsky. Loving daughter of Helen Maurer. Services Tuesday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in her memory may be made to the 
 RIGG-Elizabeth Schultz. A 25 year resident of Greenwich, CT, died Friday, November 23, at Greenwich Hospital, after a brief illness. The cause of death was pulmonary fibrosis. She was born in NYC on June 9, 1921, the daughter of the late William Lightfoot and Mabel LaVie Schultz. Her father
 WEINTRAUB-Bronka. Widow of Jacob Weintraub, Harry Rabin and Abraham Stawski, passed away on November 23, 2001, and brought to her eternal rest on Sunday, November 25, 2001. A vivacious and dedicated leader in philanthropy and the very noblest of causes on behalf of Israel, the Jewish people
 ADAMS-Rebbitzen Bernice. Congregation Ohab Zedek Manhattan, records with deep sorrow the passing of Rebbitzen Bernice Adams, wife of the late Rabbi Theodore L. Adams. To her children Larry Adams and Howard Adams, Sivi Greenberg and Myril Zomick, & to all her grandchildren & great grandchild
 CIECIUCH-Helena M. On Nov. 26, 2001 at the Mary Manning Walsh Home, New York City. Wife of the late Leon Robert Cieciuch. Mother of the late L. Robert (Cieciuch) Charles, Sr. Jorene Cieciuch, O.P. of Manhattan and Richard T. Cieciuch, Sr. of Oyster Bay. In addition to her children, Mrs. Cie
 ELLIOTT-Margaret K. Of Key Biscayne, FL, and Mt. Kisco, NY, died at home on Nov. 22. The wife of Michael S., and the beloved mother of Jessica and Michael C. Elliott. Margaret was the daughter of Marguerite Kirby and the late Charles F. Kirby. She is also survived by her sister Marie Brenna
 FORMAN-Sol. The Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the passing of Sol Forman, beloved father of our devoted Trustee, Amy Rubenstein. Our thoughts and sympathies are with Amy and her husband Howard, and their entire family at this difficult time. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Joan Ros
 GOODMAN-Joan Schnur. Passed away at her home in Manhattan on Nov. 5, 2001. She is survived by her son, Robert Goodman of New York City and Tel Aviv, Israel. Donations may be sent in her name to the Simon Wiesenthal Center, 1399 S. Roxbury Drive, Los Angeles, CA. 90035.       
 HENSCHEL-Edna Davis, 86. Of Remsenburg, NY, on November 25, of heart failure. Survived by her husband, George F. Henschel, son George F. Henschel, Jr. of Bedford, NY, daughter, Sandra H. McKeveny of Pelham Manor, New York and five grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at a later da
 JONES-Mary Myers, 71. Of Albany, NY, November 19 after a courageous battle with cancer. A longtime resident of Woodstock, NY, she was the daughter of the late Howard Myers, publisher of the Architectural Forum, and Louise W. Myers. She attended the Brearley School and Bard College. She is s
 LEIGHTON-Miriam. The officers, board and staff of the Women's Division/American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of Miriam Leighton. Miriam demonstrated the highest level of commitment to the Technion, the American Society of Technion by her support of Women's Division. 
 MALAKOFF-Lois Maurer. The Village Temple community mourns the passing of Lois Malakoff. She was Treasurer of the Sisterhood for several years. Beloved wife of Harry and devoted mother of Michelle. Lois was a kind and gentle presence in our community and we will all miss her. Services Tuesda
 MARCUS-Harriett. The Jewish Braille Institute of America records with sorrow the loss of a much respected and devoted Honorary Life Trustee, Harriett Marcus. A woman of great generosity and compassion, she will be remembered for her devoted service to the Jewish community. She will be sorel
 WEINTRAUB-Bronka. Widow of Jacob Weintraub, Harry Rabin and Abraham Stawski, passed away on November 23, 2001, and brought to her eternal rest on Sunday, November 25, 2001. A vivacious and dedicated leader in philanthropy and the very noblest of causes on behalf of Israel, the Jewish people
 BOEHM-Leonore. On September 26, 2001. Wife of the late Edward H. Boehm, sister of Rose Heiman, beloved mother of Arthur Boehm. No funeral is planned. Contributions in her name to The Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute of the Mount Sinai/ NYU Medical Center, 212-241-1446
 HERMAN-Alice Hausman. 93 died Friday. A long time Career gal/advertising executive for many of New York City's top agencies beginning in the 1930's. Writing catchy copy for accounts ranging from Gerber Baby Food to Underwood Typewriters; Clairol, Crisco, Cover-Girl, Fab and Halo shampoo to 
 HORWICH-Sally B., 94. After a short illness, on November 21, at Mount Sinai Hospital. Born in Winnipeg, she grew up on her father's ranch in Saskatchewan, became a nurse, & emigrated to the United States, where she married David, her devoted husband until his death in 1957. She was a cookin
 KANE-Sara, 85. Wife of the late Albert Gold and William Kane. Beloved mother of Barbara Gold Kane, Ellen Bayer and Howard Kane. Best in the world Grandma to Jennifer Bayer Gamulka, Shimon and Aaron Bayer, Jennifer Kane Crapo, Suzanne & Anthony Gabriele. Great Grandma Sara to Eliana, Avi and
 NERI-Josephine. Age 65. Of Saint Cloud, FL. Died Saturday, November 17, 2001. Mrs. Neri was the Editor of Crafts for Family Circle magazine. Born in The Bronx, N.Y., she moved to Saint Cloud from Brooklyn. She was Catholic. Survivors are son Joseph Michael Neri, Jr., daughter-in-law Ellen N
 SURREY-Jane. On November 25. Mourned by cousin Susan and her many beloved friends. A future memorial celebration is planned.       
 ABRAMS-Rose. November 28. Beloved wife of the late Percy Abrams. Loving mother of Robert Abrams. Cherished grandmother of Meredith Meegan and Robert Abrams, Jr. and great grandmother of Connor Meegan. Devoted sister of the late Ann Feinman, the late Rae Levine, the late Herman Sutton, the l
 DANIELL-Blanche, 99. Of Rye, NY, died on November 24, 2001. Mrs. Blanche N. Daniell was the first wife of F. Raymond Daniell, a correspondant for The New York Times. She was a writer for the Voice of America during and after World War II. She is survived by her two children, Curtis Guild Da
 EBENSTEIN-Claire. Reaching Up mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our Executive Director William Ebenstein. We extend our deepest condolences to her entire family and friends.       
 GREENBURGER - Ingrid (nee Gruttenfien). Born July 14, 1913, in Berlin, Germany, died November 25 in New York. Mrs. Greenburger was a painter, writer, literary agent and book scout. She is the widow of Sanford J. Greenburger, the founder of the Sanford J. Greenburger Literary Agency. Her fam
 HANDELMAN-Ruth. The community of West End Synagogue mourns the loss of this quiet, gracious, always stylish lady. We extend our sympathies to her sons, grandchildren and their families. West End Synagogue: A Reconstructionist Congregation Rabbi Yael Ridberg Cantor Deborah Jacobson Jane Wepr
 SMIGEL-Hortense, 95. On November 27. Wife of the late Allan Smigel. Beloved and devoted mother of Howard & Betty Smigel of Denver, and Eileen and Walter Kern of Riverdale. Cherished and adored grandmother of Robert and Mayva Kern, and Stuart and Andrea Kern. She will always be in our hearts
 THOMPSON-Mary Tyson. Age 92, died peacefully on November 27, 2001, at her home in New Jersey. A prolific and award-winning artist, she was a member of the American Watercolor Society and her work is in many collections. She was the wife of the late Kenneth W. Thompson, and is survived by he
 ALTMAN-Edith (Miller). Devoted wife of David, loving mother of Mel, Louise Stern, Alan and Judi, caring grandmother of Ilene, Marc, Matthew and Joshua. We'll always remember your kindness and love to us all. Graveside services private. Shiva will be observed at the Altman residence.        
 ARONSON-Iris. Stephen and Donna Leeb and Leeb Capital Management mourn the tragic death of Iris Sherry Aronson, administrative assistant and den mother extraordinaire. We were privileged to know her and will miss her daily. Her unassuming but astounding competence kept our lives in order, w
 BRAUNSTEIN - Sydell. Beloved mother of Joan Rosenblum and Lois Sloane. Mother-in-law of Robert Rosenblum and Allan Sloane. Adored grandmother of Carol Levin (Gary) and Kenneth Jedding (Bette), Leslie Zelnik (Cory) and Stephanie Sloane. Great grandmother of Samantha Levin. An independent wom
 DeFLORIO-Mary Lucy. November 28. Beloved wife of Robert Shapiro. Loving daughter of Bernice DeFlorio and the late Anthony DeFlorio. Devoted sister of Catherine DeFlorio, Rosalie DeFlorio and Ralph DeFlorio. Beloved grnaddaughter of the late Lucy and the late Ralph DeFlorio. Cherished by all
 DOYLE-Constance T., 59. Died from intestinal cancer on November 21, 2001 in Los Angeles. Native of Larchmont, NY. Graduate of Sacred Heart in Greenwich, CT. Attended Skidmore College, Boston Museum School, and Parsons / New School. Career in jewelry and graphic design began in NYC and since
 KEMPEN-Patricia C. Of Manhasset, NY on November 25, 2001. Former service manager at Lord & Taylor. Beloved wife of the late Stanley D. Kempen. Cherished mother of Michael of Douglaston, NY. Also survived by her sister Denise Keily of Las Vegas, Nevada. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Hom
 LICHTIG-Mildred. The Trustees and Staff of National Kidney Foundation of New York/New Jersey mourn the passing of our Vice President Mildred Lichtig. Midge was a Charter Member of the Foundation and spent a lifetime of devotion and dedication to our work. We extend our deepest condolences t
 MILLER-Anita L. On November 27, 2001. Loving wife to Ron, caring mother to Amanda and cherished sister of Allen Abramson. Service 10:15AM today at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in her memory to The New York Times Neediest F
 SABBAGH-Donna L. of Westbury, LI on November 28, 2001, in her 45th year. (Ironworkers Local #       
 SNOWDAY-Jane Morin. On November 28, 2001, at age 76. Beloved wife of the late Michael Snowday. Loving mother of Cass Collins and the late Christopher Collins. Adored grandmother of Sarah, Ben, Abby, Conor and Callison. Dear sister of Dr. Eleanor Davis and George Morin. Services at Frank E. 
 TAUFIELD-Ella F. Died peacefully on November 28, 2001 at 88. She is survived by her beloved son and daughter-in-law, Jeff and Loren, and her treasured grandchildren, Elizabeth and William. Never was there a more beautiful human being. She will be missed.       
 WILLIAMS-Dolores. The entire family of Long Island College Hospital and Continuum Health Partners, Inc., mourns the passing of Dolores Williams, beloved mother of esteemed LICH Regent and Beth Israel Medical Center Trustee, Ms. Saundra Williams Cornwell. We extend our heartfelt condolences 
 Rachel Gurney, the British actress best known to American audiences as the elegant Lady Marjorie Bellamy on the popular 1970's serialized drama ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' has died, according The Daily Telegraph of London. She was 81. With fine features and a delicate stiff upper lip,
