 BRUSH-Harriet. Of Long Boat Key, Florida, formerly of New York City, wife of Raymond Brush and sister of Irvin J. Berger (both deceased), died peacefully at her home on January 27, 1998.       
 CASEY-Elizabeth Frances. Of White Plains, NY, on January 30, 1998, after a long and valiant battle with breast cancer. Dearly loved wife and best friend of Steven Eichberg. Devoted mother of her precious Catie and Maxxie. Beloved youngest daughter of Dr. Francis and Catherine Casey, and che
 CROSS-Patricia T. Ann Arbor, Michigan. Age 77, died January 26, 11:45 P.M. at home. A resident of Ann Arbor since 1949. She was born May 21, 1920 in New York City, the daughter of Harold and Grace G. Townsend. She was a graduate of The Brearley School and Vassar College. On March 22, 1946 s
 HIRSHON-Dorothy H. Died suddenly Thursday, Jan 29, 1998 at the age of 89, following an automobile accident. She is survived by her son Jeffrey Paley and his wife Valerie; her daughter Hilary Paley Califano and her husband Joseph Califano; and her step-daughter Joy Briggs, all of New York Ci
 HUFF-Egie, the wife of Robert W. Huff, died at home on Thursday, Jan. 29, 1998 of ovarian cancer. She was 76 years old. Through her diverse roles and activities (volunteerism, community member, wife and mother), Mrs. Huff has touched the lives of many and has pioneered the way for women in 
 MOLONEY-Elizabeth J. Formerly of Burns Street, Forest Hills, NY. Passed away on Friday, January 30, 1998 at Sun Rest Nursing Home in Port Jefferson. She was the daughter of the late Dr. James J. Moloney and Dorothy Welker Moloney of Forest Hills. Beloved sister of the late Dorothy A. Molone
 NOVAK-Betty. On January 30, 1998. Beloved wife of Adam. Devoted mother of Linda and Karin. Mother-in-law of Dr. Robert Greenberg and Dr. Daniel TerBush. Loving grandmother of Julia and Katie. Services Sunday, at 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her memor
 SPITZER-Irma Louise (nee Endel), died on January 30, 1998 at Longboat Key, Florida after an extended illness that she bore with extraordinary bravery and always with a quiet smile. She was the devoted wife and best friend of James for sixty years, the dedicated mother of James Jr. and Sheri
 WASSERMAN-Rose. On January 30, in her 87th year. Predeceased by her husband, Rubin. Survived by daughters Harriet and Maxine, a son, Simon, and her granddaughter Michelle. She will remain in loving memory.       
 WILLAUMEZ - KARNES - Marilyn E. Of New York. On January 22, 1998. Mother of Jonah David Willaumez. Former member of the Fashion Group and the Bellevue Hospital Auxiliary Board. Her career included positions at Vogue Magazine, Burlington Industries and Celanese Inc. Memorial service will be 
 WINSLOW-Lucy P. Age 83, of Exeter, NH, died Sunday, January 25, 1998 after a long illness. Born December 3, 1914 in Boston, MA, she was the daughter of the late Charles J. and Evelyn (Munroe) Prescott, and graduate of Radcliffe College, 1935. She earned a Master's Degree in Social Work at t
 BARRON-Rita Nally. Long time resident of Tarrytown, died January 31, 1998, at Westchester County Center in Valhalla. She was 64. She was born October 10, 1933, in Manhattan to Raymond and Elizabeth Nally. She was educated at Elizabeth Seton in Riverdale. She was a longtime employee of Marym
 HELLER-Sondra, Ph.D, January 28, 1998 of Tarrytown, NY. Wife of Joel Frutkin, mother of Jenny and Jocelyn Dauphin and Jeremy Frutkin. As educator, scholar and mentor she devoted her life to children as Principal and Teacher at Yeshiva of Kings Bay in Brooklyn, Solomon Schecter High School i
 HIRSHON-Dorothy H. Died suddenly Thursday, Jan 29, 1998 at the age of 89, following an automobile accident. She is survived by her son Jeffrey Paley and his wife Valerie; her daughter Hilary Paley Califano and her husband Joseph Califano; and her step-daughter Joy Briggs, all of New York Ci
 PASCAL-Frances. On February 1, 1998, a week after her 80th birthday. Beloved widow of Jack, mother of Bonnie and Manny Lobel. Grandmother (Gam) of Lori and Dan Underberger, Monica and Mike Lightman, Gregg and Deborah Lobel, Scott and Lisa Lobel. Great-grandmother of Shira and Marisa Underbe
 Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington. Ms. Kreig, a former resident of Manhattan, was 76. The cause was complications from lung cancer, her family said.
 ALLEN-Leonie. Died after a long illness on February 1, 1998. Mother of Lucienne Itkin and Mark Allen, grandmother to Michelle, Lisa, and David. Sister to Martin and Lila Courtian. She was much loved by all. Graveside service today 11 A.M., New Montefiore Cemetery.       
 ALVES-Ann Doubilet. Beloved daughter of Bobbie and the late Dr. Henry Doubilet, and sister of David and Jane Doubilet Kramer. Her untimely death came after a long battle with cancer, her passing was a peaceful journey in the Tibetan Buddhist tradition. She is survived by her husband Jose, a
 COHEN-Esther (nee Heiligman). Died on January 29, 86 years, at Kendal - at - Hanover Residence, New Hampshire. Devoted wife of the late Mayer (Mike). Loving mother of Aaron and his wife Ann of Newtonville, MA; her daughter Sophia of Barrington, RI. Dear sister of Sol Heiligman and cherished
 COOPER-Eve. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends condolences to our esteemed friends, Barbara and Malcolm Thomson on the loss of her beloved mother. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Melvin Salberg, Chairman Malcolm Hoenle
 HIRSHON-Dorothy. The Board of Trustees mourns the loss of Dorothy Hirshon, Trustee of Carnegie Hall from 1963 to 1987, an Honorary Trustee from 1987 until her sudden death this past weekend. Throughout her 35 years of devotion to Carnegie Hall, she helped save this landmark building from th
 JUDSON-Virginia Walton. On Sunday, February 1, 1998. Mother of Cyrus Field Judson, III, Sarasota, FL and Virginia Judson Thornburgh, Washington, DC. She is also survived by seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in the chapel of Goodwin House West
 LEDER-Greta (nee Lustbader). Widow of Marcel and of Dr. Adolph Weissmann. February 1 after a short illness at age 92. After escaping from Nazi Austria with her family in 1938, she arrived in the United States and promptly helped her husband establish his medical practice in Manhattan. Her f
 MATHIS-Helen Jean (Gigi). Died January 30, 1998, in Edina, Minn. Adored sister of Patricia, Mary and Catherine; beloved wife of Jeffrey Helebrant, devoted aunt and dear friend. Her generous spirit, infectious laugh, and selfless concern touched those around her.       
 SAPERSTEIN-Rose. Beloved wife of Sidney (deceased 1959). Mother of Marcia (deceased 1960). Passed away February 1, 1998 at her home in Wynmoor, Coconut Creek, FL., surounded by her daughter Sue, her niece Elaine and dear friends and family. She is survived by her loving grandchildren Sabra 
 BARIS-Sybil. Of Potomac, MD, died on Sunday, February 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jules C. Baris. Devoted mother of David Baris of Darnstown, MD, and Susan Baris Mace of New York City. Also survived by one grandson. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, expressions of sympathy
 COTTERELL-Viola L. The firm of Cotterell, Mitchell & Fifer deeply mourns the passing of Viola L. Cotterell, the widow of our founder, Wesley Cotterell. On January 30, Mrs. Cotterell, died after a short illness in her 99th year. Until her last few weeks, Mrs. Cotterell lived unassisted in he
 EISLER MINDEN-Kate. Died at 99 on February 2nd after long illness. Mother of Gerda, Sean, the late Fredericka, Michael (Phila.), Colin (N.Y.), Ernestine (Cambridge). Grandmother of thirteen. Services omitted at her request.       
 FIELD-Linda. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the passing of Linda Field, V.P. of Sales. Our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. AFD Contract Furniture, Inc.       
 GARTENBERG-Ann. We mourn the loss of our beloved member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of LI Paula Jayne Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 JAFFE-Edda. Cherished and beloved mother and loyal ally to her children Susanne and Brett. Loving Granny Ma to Gillian and Dorrian. Rest in peace eternal. Forever in our hearts with love.       
 LEDER-Greta. The Faculty, Fellows and house staff of the Dept. of Medicine records with sorrow the passing of the mother of our esteemed Director of Rheumatology and Alumnus Dr. Gerald Weissmann. We are very proud of her son who is an internationally renowned physician scientist, researcher
 NORRIS-Priscilla. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 TRAYNOR - Katherine (nee O'Connor). On Feb. 2, 1998 of Woodside, in her 95th year (native of Co. Roscommon, Ireland). Wife of the late James. Devoted mother of Kathleen Young, Gene and the late James and Anna. Dear mother-in-law of Kenneth, Margaret and Carol. Adored grandmother of Kathleen
 COE-Nancy B.W. (Penny). Cherished wife of the late Henry E. (Tony) Coe III. Beloved mother of NancyBell, Elice and Alexandra Coe, Cynthia Devine and J.T. Coe. Dear sister of Capt. (Ret. USN) J.H. Wesson, and loving grandmother of Taylor, Katherine and Manning. Mayor of the Village of Lawren
 FISHMAN-Priscilla. The Gimprich Family Foundation records with profound sorrow the untimely death of Priscilla Fishman in Jerusalem. Priscilla's contribution to the State of Israel and Jewish life were of inestimable value. She touched hundreds of lives and will be remembered for her keen i
 HYMAN-Dorothy. On February 4, 1998. One of the original Rockettes. Beloved wife of the late Edward Hyman. Loving mother of Glory Missan and the late Marge Pidto. Adored grandmother of Hilary, Andrew, Wendy, Billy and Liz and great grandmother of Amelia. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 KOHN-Bertha. Died February 3rd, 88 years old. Lived in Hollywood, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn and Lake Mohegan, New York. Wife of the late Philip Kohn. Survived by her son Martin Kohn, and daughter-in-law Laura Sacks Kohn, granddaughters Maggie and Anna Kohn. All of Hunington Woods, Michi
 PAJESKI-Lisa. Age 37, of Croton, January 29, 1998. Graduate of Cornell. Former Director of Engineering at NBC. She leaves her husband, Hurish, her mother Peggy, Saurwein and father Paul Saurwein, her sister Margot Powell and brother George Saurwein. Services Saturday, February 7, 1998, 11:0
 SCHIFF-Hannah Goodman, 97, on February 3 at Jewish Home and Hospital, formerly of Woodmere, NY, widow of David M. Schiff, died 1976. She will be lovingly remembered by her daughters Ellyn Berman and Sheila Schwartz, her sons-in-law Benjamin Berman and Irving Schwartz and her grandchildren S
 SWANN-Christine S. Elaborate, delicate power of the honeyed mother. Gift of worship, love and spring. Woman of the wind. Girl of the moon. Her glorious love by the sea. Chanting in the garden. You are me. My friend always, Lindy.       
 TROISE-Margaret. Died on Wednesday morning February 4, 1998, in Smithtown, NY at the age of 78. Just released, she blows down the road, a sheath of gold astounds her face, and she squints, outgrows the ground. With abiding love and gratitude, your son Don       
 Dr. Gertrude Scharff Goldhaber, a physicist who contributed to scientists' understanding of nuclear fission and the structure of atomic nuclei, died on Monday at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital in Patchogue, N.Y. She was 86 and lived at Bayport on Long Island. Dr. Goldhaber was a membe
 Margaret Hillis, who founded the Chicago Symphony Chorus and was the first woman to conduct the Chicago Symphony itself, died yesterday at Evanston Hospital, in Evanston, Ill. She was 76, and lived in Wilmette, Ill. The cause was lung cancer, said Synneve Carlino, a spokeswoman for 
 Dr. Mary Catherine Raugust Howell, a pediatrician who championed medical careers and better health care for women and who was the first woman to become an associate dean at Harvard Medical School, died yesterday at her home in Watertown, Mass. She was 65. The cause was breast cancer
 BESSO-Hazel A. Of Upper Nyack, New York, died on February 5th. She was 83. Predeceased by her husband Ned A. Loved by her three daughters: Barbara Moore, Kathy Mayer, Constance Conace. Also loved by her six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Funeral services Saturday 12 noon at Ha
 FINCK-Norma. Feb. 5, 1998. Resident of Providence, RI. Devoted mother of Bobby Finck, N. Bergen, NJ and Nancy (Stuart) Goldsmith, Dover, MA. Loving grandmother of Jamie and Drew Goldsmith, and Matthew and Ben Finck. Loving aunt to Jane, Barbara, Bud, and John. Her advice is to live life to 
 GARTENBERG-Ann. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Mrs. Ann Gartenberg. On behalf of the City College community, I wish to extend my condolences to her husband, Seymour, and to her family. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City College of New York/ CUNY       
 HYMAN-Dorothy. On February 4, 1998. One of the original Rockettes. Beloved wife of the late Edward Hyman. Loving mother of Glory Missan and the late Marge Pidto. Adored grandmother of Hilary, Andrew, Wendy, Billy and Liz and great grandmother of Amelia. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 KAUFMAN-Lola. On February 5, 1998 in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Bert; mother of Bunnie Leeds and Joan Claster. Adored grandmother, great grandmother. You were one in a million!       
 RESNICK-Sam. The Board and Staff of The Center for Preventive Psychiatry note with sorrow the death of Sam Resnick, husband of long time dedicated staff member, Amy Resnick and generous and committed supporter of the Center's work with children and families. We express our deepest sympathy 
 SHEEHAN-Mary E. Age 91, of High Bridge, New Jersey, died on February 5, 1998. She was a registered nurse doing private duty throughout her whole career. Survivors include one God-daughter Francie Rodums. For information Naughright - Scarponi Funeral Home, High Bridge, New Jersey.       
 SMITH-Catherine Alice Linn, 95. On February 4, 1998 in New York City. Survived by Jane S. and Glenn Pasanen, Linn H. and Susan Smith, Beverly B. Smith, Laura Smith and Christian Arnold, Jeffrey Smith, William Smith, Anne and Richard Deveau, Jennifer Pasanen and Martin Weaver. Services 11 A.
 SWANN-Christine. The Family Center feels the profound loss of our Board member and volunteer extraordinaire. Christine provided joy and generosity to our children and their parents. Her radiant smile and aura grace our agency. Our most sincere condolences to her beloved family. The Children
 Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital. She was 83 and lived in Harlem. From 1948, w
 De GRAAFF-Dr. Frances. Professor Emeritus of Russian at Bryn Mawr College. Died October 22, 1997. She taught at Bryn Mawr and Haverford Colleges for 26 years where she expanded the Russian program into a full scale graduate and undergraduate department. Professor De Graaff was born in the N
 DOSIK-Helen. Died February 5, 1998, at age eighty-five. Daughter Carol Kaplan, son Michael, grandchildren Noah, Ethan and Daniel Kaplan and Lia and Diana Dosik, son-in-law Mark, daughter-in-law Lyn and the legions of friends and family that adored her mourn her premature death. Predeceased 
 FAVORINI-Marie C. On February 5th, formerly of New York City. Loving wife of Francis, mother of Attilio Favorini and Cecilia Balog. Also survived by 6 grandchildren, two sisters and four brothers. Relatives and friends are invited to her viewing on Sunday, February 8, 2-4 and 6-8 PM at Ever
 FLANDERS - Greta. Beloved daughter of Lillian Fletcher and sister of Edward of Oxnard, CA. She died at age 61 on January 28, 1998. She was a supervisor with the New York City Department of Probation. She will be missed.       
 GO-Linda Maria, MD. Friends and colleagues in the Department of Medicine of Bronx Lebanon hospital Center are deeply saddened by the death of Maria Linda Go, MD. A graduate of our Medical Residency program and a member of our Division of General Medicine, she chose a career caring for the m
 KONECKY-Janet (Gold). Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. A woman of devotion, valor understanding and love for all. A friend to everyone. We will all miss her. Services Sunday 12:30pm ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her honor may be made to: The 
 LeBOEUF-Harriet Ross. Died peacefully on February 5, 1998 in her 100th year at her home in Old Westbury, New York. Beloved wife for fifty-four years of the late Randall J. LeBoeuf, Jr., founder of the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. She was born in 1898, the daughter of the late
 ROGIN-Lillian (nee Ruderman). On February 5, 1998, at home, aged 98. Devoted wife of the late Robert, beloved mother of Gilbert and Richard, dear mother-in-law of Abigail, loving grandmother of Kate, Frank and Sally, and devoted aunt to Carolyn Korshin, Juliet Bernstein and Lucy Pearce. Her
 Irene Kampen, who saw her sometimes strife-torn life as such a sitcom that it took Lucille Ball to portray it on television, died on Monday in Oceanside, Calif. She was 75 and the author of the book that inspired ''The Lucy Show.'' Her family said the cause was breast cancer.       
 CARLSON-Jane. The Juilliard School mourns the loss of Jane Carlson, honored last year for fifty years of distinuished service as a member of the College and PreCollege Division faculties. A noted piano pedagogue, her dedication to her work has been an inspiration to her many students, frien
 DAVIDSON-Alice, (nee Gordon) 86, mother of CTG Ahmanson Theatre and Mark Taper Forum Artistic Director/Producer Gordon Davidson, passed away January 28, 1998, in Culver City, CA, of a heart attack. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. The beloved wife of the late Professor Jo ''Skipper'' Davidso
 DENMARK-Pamela D., age 37, of Flushing, N.Y., died on February 6, 1998. Beloved daughter of Dr. Florence Denmark Wesner and Dr. Stanley J. Denmark. Step daughter of Robert Wesner and Anita Goodman Denmark. Survived by her sister Valerie and twin brother Richard and her fiance Robert Rackett
 DUNKLE-Matilda Louise Reinhardt. On February 6, 1998 at age 85. Resident of Scarsdale for 50 years. Wife of the late Heber Hamilton Dunkle Sr., mother of Laine M. Stephens, Carol B. Keenan, Heber H. Dunkle Jr., and Jonathan R. Dunkle. Grandmother of nine and great grandmother of three. A me
 ECKHARD-Marie T., Dr. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, has died after a short illness in Wilmington, DE. Feb. 3, 1998. A retired professor of American History and Women's Studies at Pratt Institute, she was a faculty member 1967-1992. She was awarded Distinguished Professor 1990-91 and received Em
 FANE-Agnes ''Dolly.'' February 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late G. Wiliiam Fane. Devoted mother of Anne Cote Taylor and her husband Paul E. Taylor, Jr. Loving sister of Mary O'Brien. Compassionate nurse and life master at bridge. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, Tuesday, February 10,
 GARTENBERG-Anne (nee Stassi). On February 3rd, at 62 years. Beloved wife of Seymour Gartenberg. Loving mother of Leslie Mlawski, Karen Gartenberg and Mark Gartenberg. Devoted grandmother of Shana Mlawski, Ariele Mlawski and Justin Gartenberg. Cherished sister of John Stassi and Margaret Sta
 KONECKY-Janet (Gold). Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. A woman of devotion, valor understanding and love for all. A friend to everyone. We will all miss her. Services today 12:30PM ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her honor may be made to: The J
 LeBOEUF-Harriet Ross. Died peacefully on February 5, 1998 in her 100th year at her home in Old Westbury, New York. Beloved wife for fifty-four years of the late Randall J. LeBoeuf, Jr., founder of the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. She was born in 1898, the daughter of the late
 MENEELY-Leslie Stewart. Died February 7 in her 87th year at Raymore, Missouri. Loving mother of Nicole V. Demarest, Michelle V. Limpert, Suzanne Van der Leur and Leslie Van der Leur; loving grandmother of Kenneth, Michele, Christine, Alexandra, John, Elizabeth and Patricia; in turn, remembe
 O'BRIEN-Katherine L. Died on February 5, in Philadelphia at age 90. Born Ellisburg, New York, on Oct. 22, 1907 and graduate of Wells College, Aurora, N.Y. She was a longtime resident of New York City before she moved to Cathedral Village, Philadelphia in 1990. She loved opera, traveling, an
 ROSENKOFF-Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Abraham, retired NYC teacher, and long-time volunteer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, much loved by her family.       
 STEINHAUER-Rose. February 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Kolerstein and the late Eric Steinhauer. Sister of the late Zelda Markowitz. Survived by her niece Irene Stein, many greatnieces and nephews, and many great-great-nieces and nephews. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at Mt. Hebron Ce
 SWANN-Christine S. (formerly Christine Downey). Mother, daughter, sister, aunt, grandmother, friend, lover, woman. On Feb. 4, 1998 surrounded by her family, Christine Swann left this life for parts unknown. During her two bouts with lymphoma, the second of which she lost, she remained a spi
 THABIT-Afifeh Vivian (nee Diab). Born in Beirut, Lebanon, studied at the American University of Beirut, a member of the UN Delegations Women's Club and the Islamic Heritage Society, passed away after a long illness on February 5, 1998. She has been active in ArabAmerican affairs and the dip
 DEE-Bernadette. Who passed away February 8, 1997. Will always be remembered as a caring, loving mother and true friend. Her Son, Timothy       
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. 06/04/'30 to 02/07/'97. Sister, caregiver, friend, may her memory be for a blessing.       
 Marje Fields, a longtime talent agent who was a pioneer in placing well-known actors in television commercials, died on Jan. 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. Among the clients represented at one time by her agency, Marje Fields Inc., were John Travolta, Ted Danson, Nancy Wal
 DELMHORST-Margaret McGill. On February 5, 1998, in Stonington, CT, in her 92nd year. Wife of the late Berton J. Delmhorst, mother of Arthur M. Delmhorst of Riverside, CT; George B. Delmhorst of Brooklyn, NY; and John R. Delmhorst of Fairfield, CT. Also survived by a sister Georgiana McG. Hu
 HANEY-Carol B. Of Salisbury, CT. Died in Locust Valley, NY, on February 6, 1998. She is survived by her children Stephen of Waterford, MI, and Anne Falivena of Locust Valley, NY. ''CarolGrandma'' to Nicolas and Caroline Falivena. She was the sister of Esther Keirs and Arthur Davey, Jr. and 
 HAXALL-Elizabeth Dodge Rains-ford. Granddaughter of Cleveland H. Dodge, friend and benefactor to President Wilson, and daughter of Cleveland E. and Pauline Morgan Dodge, generous benefactors of numerous New York institutions including the YWCA, Museum of Natural History, Bronx Zoo, The Bron
 LUBICH-Bernice. On Saturday, February 7, 1998, at her home in New York City after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Milton. Dear sister-in-law of Debbie and Aaron Schochet. Loving aunt of Susan and the late Steven Schochet. Services Tuesday, February 10, 12 noon at ''Th
 SCHWARTZ-Rose A. Passed away February 6, 1998, in West Palm Beach, FL. Native of New Haven, CT. Devoted wife of the late Jack Schwartz. Loving mother of Joseph B. Schwartz (Marilyn) of Manhattan and Judith Merriam of Madison, CT. Caring grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Merriam. Services Mond
 Rene  de Epelbaum, a founder of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo human rights group and one of its most dynamic members, died on Saturday at age 77. Her colleagues said she had suffered a heart attack. In 1977, during its crackdown on leftists, the military dictatorship that
 AHN-Lisa Denham. 38. On February 8, after a valiant struggle with breast cancer. Adored wife of her beloved Henry. Cherished daughter of Elma Denham of New York City and William Denham of Washington, D.C. Loved by sister Stacey Denham and Stacey's husband Tim Wood and her nephew Boris Wood 
 COSTELLO-Alice M. On February 8, 1998. Over forty years service at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital from where she retired as Nurse Manager. Beloved daughter of the late Bernard and Madeline Costello. Will be missed by many dear friends and associates. Visiting Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at th
 FAIRCHILD-Helen Wing. Age 76. Of Hobe Sound, Florida. Died Sunday February 8, 1998 at her residence in Hobe Sound, Florida. She was an interior designer in New York, Jamaica, West Indies and South Florida area for many years. She was an active environmentalist and loving supporter of fine a
 HURSON-Rita. On February 8, 1998, at her home in Irvington-onHudson, NY. Cherished wife of Jack Hurson, former Mayor of Irvington, and beloved mother of Christine Hurson of Irvington and John Hurson of New York City. She is also survived by her brother, Edward McCann of Washington, D.C., an
 HUTSON-Jean Blackwell. The Schomburg Center mourns the passing of Jean Blackwell Hutson, Curator, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, The New York Public Library, from 1948 to 1980. She passed on February 4th, 1998, at age 83. Viewing, Thursday, February 12, 3-7 P.M. at St. Phil
 KLIER-Rhoda. On February 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Irving. Cherished mother of Merrill (Walter) and JoLynn (John). Devoted grandmother of Lucie, Benjamin, Alexander and Gregory. Loving sister of Paula and Sanford. She will be greatly missed.       
 KORET-Bernice. 74, on Feb 7th, 1998, in Houston, TX. Mrs. Koret was a native Houstonian, survived by loving husband Samuel (Sonny) Koret, of Houston, a son David Koret, of New York, a daughter Tia Koret Pierce and husband Mark and grandson Logan, of San Francisco, CA, sister-in-law, Yetta G
 LUBICH-Bernice. On Saturday, February 7, 1998, at her home in New York City after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Milton. Dear sister-in-law of Debbie and Aaron Schochet. Loving aunt of Susan and the late Steven Schochet. Services Tuesday, February 10, 12 noon at ''Th
 ROGIN-Lillian. It is with profound sorrow that The Officers, Board, and Members of UCP of New York City, mourn the passing of Lillian Rogin, devoted wife of the late Robert I. Rogin, who served for many years as Chairman of the Board. Lillian Rogin used the skills through her theatrical car
 ROSENBERG - Hazel. (Beck) Passed away February 8, 1998 at her residence in Miami Beach, Florida. Adored wife of the late Sidney. Beloved mother of Louis. Devoted sister of Ethel Beck. Adoring aunt of Kara and George Beck. Sister-in-law of Rita Rosenberg. Many nieces and nephews. Graveside s
 SORG-Florence H. Aged 78 years. Mother of Vicki Sorg Murphy, Francis J. Sorg III, Leslie Sorg Ramsey, Wendi P. Sorg, Thomas Gannon Sorg and Elizabeth Sorg. Grandmother of Bryan F. Murphy, S. Gannon Murphy, Emily Sorg, Kelly Sorg, Tyler Sorg and Gillis Sorg. Great Grandmother of Barnes Ganno
 TIERNEY-George P. Of Paramus, N.J. On February 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Doreen (Dorina) (nee Laforest). Devoted father of Alice Kennedy and her husband Bill of Highland Lakes, N.J., Renee Tierney and her fiance Drew DeVita. Loving grandfather of William P. Kennedy and Megan L. Kennedy. D
 WEINSTEIN-Jane. On February 7, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Judy (and Tom Mellins), Robert, and Wendy (and Matthew Karp). Devoted grandmother of Samuel Mellins. Funeral service on Wednesday, 1 P.M. at the Larchmont Temple in Larchmont, NY. Interment at Beechwood 
 ALGOZZINE-Jane Taylor Barrett, 78, Of Katonah, N.Y., formerly of NYC, Albany and Cairo, NY. Died Jan. 28, 1998 after a long illness of a rare brain disorder. Jane spent 25 years teaching in upstate NY schools before joining the NYS Education Department in 1965. She became the Bureau Chief o
 BREGMAN-Ruth. We shall always remember her sparkle, energy, dedication, the concern for others, her unpretentiousness, philanthropy, love of family and friends, and that irrepressible spirit. The funeral for Ruth will be held at Mt. Sinai Memorial Park and Mortuary, 5950 Forest Lawn Drive, 
 CONNAUGHTON-Sr. Maria Consolata. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity and elementary school teacher on February 9, 1998. Survived by her sister, many nieces and nephews. Mass of Christian burial Wednesday, 10 A.M. at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St., Yonkers, NY. Interment St.
 ROTHBAUM-Minnie. February 9, 1998, 83 years old. Beloved wife of the late Harry Rothbaum. She is survived by her four children, Michael Rothbaum, Ronnie Storch, Jane Levin, Arnold Rothbaum, and eight grandchildren. Services today at 1283 Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn. Her beauty and kindness 
 SIMMONS-Maxine Jane. On January 21, 1998. Devoted daughter of the late Marion Frances Quinton and Herbert Simmons, and caring guardian of Suki. A pioneer as one of the first female African American attorneys in the country. Owner and consultant to the James L. Perkins Memorial Chapel, Inc. 
 SORG-Florence. We grieve the loss of our dear friend, Florence who was happiest when serving others. We were indeed fortunate to know her well. Dennis, Jean and Marie Buckley       
 BARRETT-Dorothy Pratt Register. Died in her Hillsborough home on Tuesday morning, February 10. She is survived by her daughter, Barbara Register, her son, Eliot Steven Barrett and eleven grandchildren: Alexander Barrett of New York, Cessna Barrett of Napa Valley, California, Deming de Grunn
 del BALSO-Tobi Rosen. Of Riverdale. The best friend we ever had. Died February 10, 1998. Much too soon, after a long illness of cancer and multiple sclerosis. She was a teacher and counselor who changed the lives of everyone she met. She is survived by her husband Paul, father George E. Ros
 EMDEN-Leona. A sensitive flower in a garden grew. A gentle, loving and kind person who touched our lives with her great courage and strength. We will miss you. Margie, Bobby, David, Lauren, Jimmy, Betty, Jason and Andrew Emden       
 GREENE-Rosalinda. We join her beloved daughter, Sabha, in mourning the death of Rosalinda Greene on February 10th in Dublin. She gave us wisdom, warmth and wit, and she will be sorely missed. Anita Fried, Family and Friends       
 KLEIN-Ethel. February 11, 1998 in her ninetieth year. Beloved and loving mother of Muriel Casper Weithorn of Portola Valley, CA and Dr. Monroe Klein of Union, N.J. Amazing grandmother of Dr. Corey Casper, Jane Darrow and her husband Paul, Andrew Klein and Susan Klein-the joys of her life. G
 LEUW-Dorothy Drexler. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a longtime, cherished friend who, with her late husband, Joseph M. Drexler, was a YU Guardian, Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and Fellow of our Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. Mr. Drexl
 ROSENSON-Marguerite Bailey. February 8, 1998. Age 97. Beloved mother of Barbara Bailey Bedevian and mother-in-law of A. Jack Bedevian. Former editor and publisher of the Harlem Valley Times in Amenia, N.Y. and member of the Board of Visitors of the New York State Commission of Mental Hygien
 BERNSTEIN-Sylvia, age 98 (almost 99), died peacefully on February 12, 1998 at Mount Sinai Hospital after a short illness. Beloved wife of Alfred, who died in 1977. She is survived by her son, Robert L. Bernstein (Helen) of New York City, her daughter, Barbara Rosenberg (Herman) of West Oran
 del BALSO-Tobi Rosen. Of Riverdale. The best friend we ever had. Died February 10, 1998. Much too soon, after a long illness of cancer and multiple sclerosis. She was a teacher and counselor who changed the lives of everyone she met. She is survived by her husband Paul, father George E. Ros
 FORREST-Barbara (nee Heimerdinger). On February 11, 1998 in her 72nd year. Adoring mother of Terry; beloved sister of John F. Heimerdinger; loving aunt to Linda, Daniel and Charles Heimerdinger; five grand-nephews and one grand-niece. Funeral services will be held at St. Agnes Church in Lak
 HARMON-Lily. The residents of the Kenilworth mourn the loss of our dear friend and neighbor. Lily enhanced our lives with art, grace and humor. We offer our condolences to her family. Arthur Sarnoff, President Kenilworth Apartments       
 JOHNSTON-Becky. Age 60, of cancer, February 11, 1998, in New York Hospital. She was a practicing psychotherapist in NYC. After graduation from Stamford Univ., she served with the Peace Corps in the Phillipines. Prior to establishing her own practice, she was a supervisor with Jewish Family 
 KASSLER-Elizabeth Bauer. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art express deep sadness at the passing of their longtime friend and colleague Elizabeth Bauer Kassler, former curator and director of the Department of Architecture and Design. Her tenure at the Museum from 1938 to 194
 WHITE-Elizabeth Cleveland (Betty), age 91, On February 4, 1998 in Lewisburg, PA after a long illness. Former resident of Gramercy Park, NY, NY and Clove Valley, NY. Wife of 64 years to William Rafford White, died October 5, 1995. Survived by daughter, Deborah White Andersen of Aiken, SC, so
 Helen Billings Burnham, a one-time real estate woman with no legal training who spent 22 years dispensing justice, sometimes from her family room, as a part-time, round-the-clock town justice in Salina, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Mattydale, a suburb of Syracuse. She was 81 and ha
 Lily Harmon, an artist who worked in portraiture, assemblage and book illustration, and whose third husband was the collector Joseph H. Hirshhorn, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Ms. Harmon, whose original name  was Lily Perlmutter, was born in 1912 in New Ha
 FORREST-Barbara (nee Heimerdinger). On February 11, 1998 in her 72nd year. Adoring mother of Terry; beloved sister of John F. Heimerdinger; loving aunt to Linda, Daniel and Charles Heimerdinger; five grand-nephews and one grand-niece. Funeral services will be held at St. Agnes Church in Lak
 FOSTER-Catharine Osgood, 90, of Bennington, VT, on February 13 in Bennington. Educated Mount Holyoke College. Taught at Sophie Newcomb College in New Orleans and later at Bennington College for 30 years where the Catharine Osgood Foster Chair for Distinguished Teaching was established in he
 WALLACH-Clara, nee Levinson on January 3, 1998, of West End Avenue of emphysema. Survived by devoted husband, Jesse Wallach; sons, Marty and Dan Wulfe; grandchidren, Jennifer Schimmrich, Jody Wulfe, and Benjamin Wulfe; great grandson Joshua Wulfe; brother Willie Lawrence, her sister-in-law,
 Alice Hanson Cook, a Cornell University scholar, early feminist and longtime advocate of equal pay for women and support programs for working mothers, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Ithaca, N.Y., of complications from a stroke. She was 94. Professor Cook began work at Cornell in 1954
 Alice Marie Miel, an educator who was among the earliest to advance the notion that curriculum in the nation's classrooms should have a role in preparing children for the society they will enter as adults, died on Jan. 31 at the North Florida Regional Medical Center in Gainesville. She was 
 Once upon a time there was a little girl named Mary Lou. Her family's name was Hall, and she was born in Greenville, S.C., on the very first day of 1895. That was a very long time ago. A man named Grover Cleveland was President of the United States, and there were only 44 states. They did n
 BRODY-Leah, age 104. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Bernie, Rhoda, and the late Eli. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. May she rest in peace. Services were held.       
 CAPELLONI-Nelly G. Died peacefully at home on February 14, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Mario. Loving sister of Charlotte Meiberg. Also survived by many nieces, nephews and cousins who will always remember her. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 FLEMING-Marie ''Mimi.'' In Tallahassee, Florida, February 12, 1998. 91 years. Wife of the late William F. Fleming and mother of the late Robert A. Fleming. Cherished by Marie Quigley Fleming Marshall and her husband, Willoughby Marshall of Apalachicola, Florida, and as ''Grandma Mimi'' by J
 GROSS-Selma Klein. Widow of Irving and cherished mother of Adam and Mindy, loving grandmother of Caitlyn and Matthew. Loving sister-in-law, aunt and friend. A buyer for J. Magnin and then Zig Zag, Brooklyn Heights, her generosity, friendship and sound advice will live in the hearts and mind
 HERBST-J. Robert. Of Y-Knot Farm, North Umberland NY. Died on February 3, 1998. Husband of Eugenia (nee Mosakowski). Father to Eugenia Bly and her husband Edgar W. Bly, and son John Herbst. President of Herbst Insulation until retirement. Spring interment, Notre Dame Cemetery, Schuylerville
 ROSEN-Mildred Albert. 81. Loving and kind mother of Carole Rosen and Joan Rosen, dear mother-inlaw of Kris Nazar, adored grandmother ''Mema'' of Jarred and Sivan Johnson and Ariela Sidney Nazar-Rosen. Died Friday, February 13, 1998 in Binghamton, NY. She was predeceased by her devoted husba
 SHERR-Mildred. The nephews and nieces of our dear Aunt Mildred share the sorrow of her passing. Our love to uncle Ted, Evanne, Billy and the family.       
 WALLACH-Clara, nee Levinson on January 3, 1998, of West End Avenue of emphysema. Survived by devoted husband, Jesse Wallach; sons, Marty and Dan Wulfe; grandchidren, Jennifer Schimmrich, Jody Wulfe, and Benjamin Wulfe; great grandson Joshua Wulfe; brother Willie Lawrence, her sister-in-law,
 Ellen Scripps Davis, a horse breeder and granddaughter of the newspaper publisher Edward Wyllis Scripps, died on Feb. 8 in a fire at her home in San Diego. She was 84. Her husband, Everett Conley Davis, 83, was also killed in the fire. Though less involved in the newspaper b
 ABRAMOWICZ-Lea Mescherowsky. Died February 14, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Mendel; cherished mother of George and Myriam; sister of Alexander and the late Shoura and Bernard; grandmother of Maxine; aunt of Nadine, Carmen, Janet, Alice, Alexa, Gregor and Dolly. Born March 1, 1906, a refug
 GOLDMAN-Carol Petry of Tequesta, FL, passed away, Thursday, February 12, 1998 at the Jupiter Medical Center, Jupiter, FL. Born in New York City, she had been a resident of Tequesta for 15 years, coming from Greenwich, CT. She was a member of the Turtle Creek Country Club, the Turtle Creek L
 GREENBERG-Ida D. 89, died February 14, 1998. Born June 24, 1908, in Brooklyn, New York. Survived by her husband Max; daughters Susan Casazza (Jimmy) and Clare Posnack (Andrew); sisters Beatrice Rose and Dorothy Silverstein; grandchildren Shari Firestone, E. Benjamin Posnack and Elizabeth Po
 MUNROE-Juliet Garrett. Died peacefully in San Mateo, CA, on January 26, 1998, in her 90th year. Widow of the late Thomas R. Hughes and Henry Munroe. A graduate of Bryn Mawr, she earned an M.A. in economics at Catholic University in 1946. A resident of Washington for more than three decades,
 GORIN-Margaret, on February 16, 1997, at age 85. Beloved sister of Irene and Leo, aunt of Kathy and Mark, and great-aunt of Alex and Destiny Rose. We shall miss her.       
 Martha Ellis Gellhorn, who as one of the first female war correspondents covered a dozen major conflicts in a writing career spanning more than six decades, died on Sunday at her home in London. She was 89. Ms. Gellhorn was a cocky, raspy-voiced maverick who saw herself as a champio
 ANDERSON-Jane M. May 23, 1908-February 15, 1998. Editor, writer and painter. Survived by her son Greville Healey, her daughters Stephanie Healey Owen and Jane Anderson Bernstein, seven grandchildren and eleven great grandchildren. Her oldest daughter, Joanna Healey Shurbet died in 1980. Mrs
 GOLDMAN-Carol Petry of Tequesta, FL, passed away, Thursday, February 12, 1998 at the Jupiter Medical Center, Jupiter, FL. Born in New York City, she had been a resident of Tequesta for 15 years, coming from Greenwich, CT. She was a member of the Turtle Creek Country Club, the Turtle Creek L
 GOODMAN-Irene. 85. On February 14th, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Obsessively devoted mother of Susan and Lewis. Cherished mother-in-law of Ira and Sally. Her jokes and memories of her turkey dinners will live on forever.       
 GREENWALD-Anna. Of Miami Beach, Fla. at age 101. Beloved mother of the late Jerry and Dotty Ross, Gill and Ethel Ross and George and Billie Ross. Devoted sister of Bea Hyman. Cherished grandmother of Rick and Iris Ross, David and Cathy Jensen, Vicki Ross, Tom and Stephanie Suskin and Nanci 
 KINZEL-Madeleine C. On February 14, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Otto. Loving mother of Otto III and Robert. Adoring grandmother of Will, Halen, Ethan, Eric, Otto IV, Kristen, Kathryn and Maggie. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 10 AM. Interment private
 THORNTON-Susan H. On Saturday, February 14. Of Selden, L.I. Devoted wife of Richard Thornton and loving daughter of William Schnautz. She is a former employee of ITT Corp. World Headquarters, NYC. Funeral from the David T. Ferguson Funeral Home, 20 North St, Washingtonville, NY, on Wednesda
 WILE-Grace Carlin. Of Princeton, NJ. Died suddenly in Sanibel, FL, on February 14, 1998. A graduate of Cornell University Class of 1929 with an M.A. from the Teachers College of Columbia University, Ms. Wile was a talented teacher of mathematics and later became an even more talented school
 WILLIAMS-Lillian. On February 15, 1998. Loving wife of the late Isidore, adored mother of Marilyn, Teddy, and the late Joan. Grandchildren Ilise, Ilene, Jimmy, Andrew and Mark, also her beloved brothers Morty and Jesse. Funeral service Wednesday, February 18, 12:30 PM, Riverside Memorial Ch
 YANOW-Helen Vogel. February 15, 1998, Laguna Hills, CA. Born in Bayonne, N.J. February 12, 1921, she graduated from NYU and Columbia School of Social Work serving as Hillel Director, Hunter College, in administrative positions at Metropolitan State and McLean Hospitals, Program Officer for 
 YAVERBAUM-Arnold. MD. The Trustees, physicians and staff of Beth Israel Medical Center (BI) and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLR) join with the Board of Trustees and administration of their parent corporation, Greater Metropolitan Health Systems (GMHS), Inc., in acknowledging with 
 BRAVERMAN-Sylvia (Cookie) of New Rochelle, NY. on February 17. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Nancy Berlin and George Braverman. Cherished grandmother of Louis and Rachel. She will always be in our hearts and will be remembered with deepest love. She was truly a wonderful human be
 FINN-Estelle. 96, on February 16, 1998 in Palm Beach, FL. Widow of the late Louis Krones and the late Benjamin Finn; beloved mother of Budd, Robert and Edward Krones, mother-in-law of Marjorie Krones and Cynthia Saypol, sister of Raymond Ackerman, step-mother of Philip and Alvan Finn, also 
 LESTER-Ruth. On Feb. 16, 1998, deeply loved by Henry, Bunny, Jennifer, Lara, Ray, Joe, Eyal... and countless others. We will miss her very much. LESTER-Ruth. For some seven decades, first at Life Magazine, then at ICP, Ruth discovered, encouraged, assisted and inspired young and unk
 SIMONS-Maxine. February 17, 1998. Wife of David Simons. Devoted and dedicated mother of Allison Sans and the late Robert Post. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private.       
 ULRICH-Lillian C. Homemaker, philanthropist. Beloved mother of Robert and the late Arthur, dear wife of the late Samuel, cherished Grandmother of Stephanie, Corey, Courtney and Spencer, mother-inlaw of Eleanor, and deeply loved sister of the late Jerome, and David Cavell, and Beatrice Schwi
 WHITE - Elizabeth Cleveland Spear (Mrs. William R. White), F.G.B.S. The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society regrets the passing of its 20th president (1983-1986) since its founding in 1869. Mrs. White's notable work was as member of the Society's publication committees since 1936
 WILLIAMS-Lillian. On February 15, 1998. Loving wife of the late Isidore, adored mother of Marilyn, Teddy, and the late Joan. Grandchildren Ilise, Ilene, Jimmy, Andrew and Mark, great grandchildren Jillien and Julia, also her beloved brothers Morty and Jesse. Funeral service Wednesday, Febru
 GERAGHTY-Mary (nee Tubridy). Of Riverdale, NY on February 17, in her 88th year. Native of Clohanmore, Cree, Co. Clare, Ireland. Loving wife of the late Matthew. Dear mother of John, Joseph and Edward and mother-in-law of Margaret and Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Kate and Elizabeth. Dea
 GOLDMAN-Jeanne Gordon, 80. On February 17, 1998, after a valiant fight with long-term chronic illnesses. Of McLean, VA, former NYC opera singer, poet, artist, wife, mother, and grandmother. Beloved wife (for 56 years) of George S. Goldman, M.D.; loving mother of Kathryn Louise and her fianc
 LIBMAN - Hannah (Silverman). Aged 88, on Feb. 18, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Morris, loving mother of Jill, Kit Howard (Robert), Hillard (Elaine). Adored grandmother of Brett, Jodi (Steven), Jim, Jon (Kathleen). Greatgrandmother of Griffin and Gage. Co-founder in 1929 of Camp Hillard, H
 NEBEL-Patricia Stewart. On Feb. 11, 1998, at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, CT. She is survived by daughter, Victoria of San Francisco, CA., son, Christopher of Gilford, CT., son, Dino of Westport, Ct., and four grandchildren. Born in London in 1928, she was awarded a scholarship to the Unive
 REINHARD-Hermia. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its member, Andrew Reinhard. May her family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 BRILL-Etta. On February 19, 1998 after a brief struggle against old age. Life member of Hadassah and a multiple Ima. Beloved wife of the late Hyman, loving mother of Charles and the late Leon, Morris, Betty and Jack, dear sister of Hana, cherished grandmother of Hal, Marlene, Hillary, Peter
 CURIE-Marie. On February 7, 1998. Peacefully, at home, after a brief illness. This dynamic lady will be missed by her many devoted friends. A memorial service will be held Saturday, February 21st, 11AM at the Church of the Epiphany, 239 E. 21 St, NYC.       
 DIETER-Kathryn (nee Boland). The family of Kathryn Dieter mourns the passing of their beloved mother, formerly of Bayside, New York, recently residing at the Mary Manning Walsh Home. She was the wife of the late Conrad Dieter. She is survived by her five children, Kathleen Dieter of New Yor
 DRYDEN-Harriet Davis. Age 75. Passed away quietly after a long battle with Lou Gehrig's disease, Feb 19, 1998. Survived by husband Robert; daughter Emma and brother Martin S. Davis. Former researcher and writer for CBS and Bosley Crowther. We miss her.       
 FLYNN-Marjorie Mary. Formerly of Astoria, Bayside, and Little Neck. Long-time widow of Robert J. Flynn who had worked for Cities Service Oil Company for 43 years and died in 1966. One of the five daughters of Joe and Amelia Schneider of Bethpage (Central Park); devoted and beloved mother of
 LOMAZOV-Elsie. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to Bernice Zwanger, member of the Board of Directors, on the passing of her mother, Elsie Lomazov. Elsie had been a loved resident of the Gurwin Center 
 SCHACHNER-Melissa. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Melissa Schachner, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 SHULSKY-Marie. ROFEH International mourns the passing of Marie Shulsky. May her family find strength in the good deeds done for Israel and mankind. The Bostoner Rebbe       
 TANDET-Barbara. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their long-time good friend and extend sincere sympathy to her husband and family. Leonard Danon, President       
 WOLF-Dorothy. Of Hollywood Fla. formerly of Riverdale, NY. On February 16. Widow of the late David Wolf. Beloved mother of Daniel and daughter-in-law Cheryl. Proud and loving grandmother of Eric, Jordan and David. Devoted and loving sister to Banjamin Loeb, sister-in-law Jean and niece Elle
 BERNBAUM-Dorothy. Beloved wife of the late Ralph Bernbaum, a former associate and friend. Our sincerest sympathy goes out to her family. Kalmon Dolgin Affiliates, Inc.       
 DEANIN-Grace Gordon, 73. Of New York City, died on February 19, 1998 after a long illness. Dr. Deanin, Professor Emeritus at the University of New Mexico, School of Medicine, designated member of The Hall of Fame of Hunter College, author of many scientific papers, is survived by her husban
 ROTHSCHILD-Elsye Rosenfeld. May 17, 1899-February 19, 1998. Loving wife for 52 years of the late Jesse. Much loved mother of Charles, Edmund, Stephanie and Kathy. Proud grandmother of Joshua, Adam, Oliver, Emily, Jesse, Sarah and Anna. Devoted sister of Rita, Ruth, Nonie, Irene and Flo. Car
 WINGATE-Judith Wagner. Age 63 suffered a brain aneurysm and passed away suddenly on February 21, 1998. Judy spent most of her life caring for others. She was a strong caring mother and loved her husband, children and family so much. She recently ceased full time employment on January 31 as 
 WOLFF-Johanna R., 93, of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, formerly of NYC, died on February 19, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Fred G. Wolff. Loving mother of Barbara Graham of Scottsdale, AZ, and cherished grandmother of Lynne Goldstein of Essexville, MI., and Ellen Congiundi of Houston, TX. She 
 BRILL-Etta. On February 19, 1998 after a brief struggle against old age. Life member of Hadassah and a multiple Ima. Beloved wife of the late Hyman, loving mother of Charles and the late Leon, Morris, Betty and Jack, dear sister of Hana, cherished grandmother of Hal, Marlene, Hillary, Peter
 CONNER-Alecia M. The family of Alecia Conner mourn the passing of their beloved mother on February 18. She is survived by her children Story Vogel and his life companion Judith Kelly of Coronado, CA; Kent Vogel of NYC; and Martha Vogel of Virginia. Although she will be missed tremendously, 
 JEANSON-June. On Dec. 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Loving sister of Ruth, Nancy and the late Richard. Devoted aunt and great-aunt. Employee of Bankers Trust Company for over 50 years. She is deeply missed.       
 LIBMAN - Hannah (Silverman). Aged 88, on February 18, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Morris, loving mother of Jill, Kit Howard (Robert), Hillard (Elaine). Adored grandmother of Brett, Jodi (Steven), Jim, Jon (Kathleen). Greatgrandmother of Griffin and Gage. Co-founder in 1929 of Camp Hillar
 REINISCH-Marjorie Bronne. At the age of 82. On February 20, in her sleep at home. She was a devoted wife and wonderful mother who will be greatly missed by all her friends. She leaves a loving daughter, Carol Reinisch, and sonin-law, Robert Suitor. She was the light of many lives. Burial se
 ROSS-Phyllis Shartsis. Of Beverly Hills, CA. Died February 15, 1998, after a brief illness. Formerly of New York, she had been an executive with ABC Radio Network. Ms. Ross is survived by her sisters Elaine Max of Charleston, W.Va. Diane Wax of Washington, D.C. and her aunt and uncle, Flore
 ROTHSCHILD-Elsye Rosenfeld. May 17, 1899-February 19, 1998. Loving wife for 52 years of the late Jesse. Much loved mother of Charles, Edmund, Stephanie and Kathy. Proud grandmother of Joshua, Adam, Oliver, Emily, Jesse, Sarah and Anna. Devoted sister of Rita, Ruth, Nonie, Irene and Flo. Car
 SHULSKY-Marie. Mirrer Yeshiva Central Institute, 1791-5 Ocean Parkway, Brooklyn, NY expresses its heartfelt sorrow and condolences upon the recent passing of Mrs. Marie Shulsky, wife of Mr. Rubin Shulsky, Chairman of Our Board of Directors. She is survived by her husband, Mr. Rubin Shulsky 
 TOWNSEND-Charlotte S. Suddenly, of an aneurism, on February 20, 1998 in Devon, PA. Vibrant and warm, she was our beloved materfamilias. Widow of Charles C. Townsend and of John K. Ewing, 3rd. Fond mother of the late John D. Ames, Jr. of Glenview, IL, William S. Ames of Boston, MA and Knowlt
 WINGATE-Judith Wagner. Age 63 suffered a brain aneurysm and passed away suddenly on February 21, 1998. Judy spent most of her life caring for others. She was a strong caring mother and loved her husband, children and family so much. She recently ceased full time employment on January 31 as 
 ROSEN-Shirley. We mourn the untimely passing of a dear friend and ardent Hadassah supporter who fought her illness courageously and in high spirits to the very end. Our condolences to Leo and the entire family. Lenny and Sonia Lipton Ethyl Pelunis       
 GARDNER-Henrietta Holtzman. A pianist and educator, she was the wife of the late Pulitzer Prize winning composer, violinist and teacher Samuel Gardner. She was a founding member and past president of The Music Teachers Association of The Public Schools of The City of New York, and a past pr
 KENNEDY-Elizabeth Wright. Of New York City and Chatham, MA. On February 20. Mrs. Kennedy was in her 30th year of teaching at St. Bernard's School. She is survived by her daughter Cornelia Kennedy Atkins, son-in-law Lawrence Atkins, and grandson Robert Andrew Atkins. Memorial service 10 AM, 
 LLUVERES-Clara. On February 23, 1998 at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, N.Y. Survived by her niece Clara, nephew Andrew, grand nieces Elena, Cornelia and Antonia. Memorial Mass Thursday, February 26th, 10AM at Holy Name Church, 96 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC. Presiding Monsignor Charles McDon
 NEW-Babette. On Feb. 22, 1998 at the age of 84, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Amy Kovner White and Victor A. Kovner, cherised grandmother of Anne Plumer and Elsie White. Her talent, beauty and artistic sensibility enhances the lives of those who love her. A private Memorial will s
 POSNIAK-Evelyn. Beloved wife of Sol. Sister of Irving. Mother of Fred. Grandmother of Marissa and Amanda. Mother-in-law of Karen. Her strength helped provide great love to all who knew her. She will be greatly missed from all. Funeral services today, 9:30 A.M., at Yablokoff Funeral Home, Br
 TURITS-Joan. Passed away after a long and courageous fight with illness on February 18 surrounded by family and friends. A 42 year Poughkeepsie, NY area resident, born February 16, 1933 in New York City and educated in City schools. She married Allan Turits November 22, 1952, who survives a
 Edith Oliver, a diminutive, raspy-voiced and highly influential drama critic at The New Yorker for more than three decades who got her start writing questions for radio quiz shows, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. ''She was packaged like the quintessential elderl
 BLACK-Gayle, Ph.D (nee Gayle Marks). Cherished mother, devoted wife, beloved sister and dear beautiful friend to many. She died as she lived-with courage, dignity and grace surrounded by loving family and friends. Gayle will be missed by her husband Shelly Marks, daughter Margot Black and b
 BROGAN-Peggy Dunn, writer, teacher, educational consultant on February 15 in Ishpiming, MI after a long illness. Born Margaret Dunn in Chisholm, MN. on July 9, 1918. Graduate of Northwestern University. Teacher at Home School in New York City. Predeceased by husband Whit Brogan and brother 
 CARLTON-Margaret Gillies, 94. February 21, 1998. Wife of the late Winslow Carlton, mother of Mary G. Swope, Ann W. Carlton, and Rhona Carlton-Foss and grandmother of Tim and Ian Swope and Margaret Carlton-Foss. Funeral Services 3:30 PM, Saturday, Feb. 28, Church of the Messiah, Church St., 
 DAVIDSON-Bernice. Retired Research Curator at the Frick Collection, died on February 24, 1998. She is survived by her sister and brother-in-law, Anne and David Ferry of Cambridge, Mass., a nephew, Stephen Ferry, a niece and her husband, Elizabeth Ferry and David Wood. There will ba a memori
 GOLDMAN-Florrie. Died February 20. Devoted wife of the late Julius. Her children Alan and Don, their spouses Joanne and Cheryl, her grandchildren James, Cathy and Drew and great grandchild Peter celebrate her life. Donations to Brooklyn Hospice, 6323 7 Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11220.       
 HOYT-Barbara. The Board and staff of Spence-Chapin Services to Families and Children mourn the loss of a valued friend who gave of her skills, wisdom and support for forty years as a member of the Board of Directors. She will be remembered with great fondness for her dignity, charm and dedi
 LLUVERES-Clara. On February 23, 1998 at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, N.Y. Survived by her niece Clara, nephew Andrew, grand nieces Elena, Cornelia and Antonia. Memorial Mass Thursday, February 26th, 10AM at Holy Name Church, 96 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC. Presiding Monsignor Charles McDon
 REED-Dr. Frances C., Ph.D. in Psychology. She leaves behind her beloved husband, Lionel C. Reed, and her four sons, Drs. Harold, Lawrence, Irving and Barry Reed. A feminist before her time, she devoted her life to the education of the slow learner and was instrumental in the development of 
 TURNER-Jayne. It is with profound sadness that the friends and family of Jayne Turner announce her passing on February 13, 1998 due to complications from a stroke. She will forever be remembered in the hearts of those she touched with her time and talent as one of Broadway's most gifted dan
 Karen Avenoso, an education reporter for The Boston Globe who also wrote about her yearlong battle with Ewing's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer, died yesterday at her home in Westfield, N.J. She was 31. Ms. Avenoso joined The Globe in 1995 after spending three years at The Daily News
 AVENOSO-Karen. The family and friends of Karen Avenoso mourn her passing on February 25, at age 31. Wife of Jonathan Sherman, daughter of Ellen and Frank, sister of Kenneth, granddaughter of Lillian Stark, Karen was adored by her family and touched countless others with her words and spirit
 CONNOLLY-Eleanor J. On Feb. 25, 1998. Beloved sister of Mary Wilson, Liverpool, U.K. Loving aunt of Eileen Romanelli and many nieces and nephews. Mass of Christian Burial on Saturday, at 10 A.M., at Holy Family R.C. Church, 315 East 47 Street, NYC. Donations preferred in her memory to Holy 
 CROSS-Rowena B. On February 24 after an extended illness. Mourned by her loving sons, Robert, Grant, and Bradley Dewey, brother, Eric Bauer, and seven young grandchildren. Funeral services will be held on February 27 at 11 A.M., at Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Avenue at 90th Street. For
 HUBBELL-Dorothy Twyeffort. A woman of elegant strength, died February 23, 1998 in Falmouth, Me. She was 89. Born in Paris, to American parents, Josephine and Louis Twyeffort, she lived there until she graduated from Vassar in 1930. A year later she married William Bradford Hubbell and moved
 HUGHES-Marie C. On February 24, 1998. Survived by her loving family. Reposing at Gannon Funeral Home, 152 East 28 Street, NYC on Thursday, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral Mass Friday, 10 A.M., Epiphany Church, 2nd Avenue at 22 Street. Interment Woodlawn Cemetery.       
 IMBLEAU-Helen V., 95. Beloved wife of the late Dr. J.E.L. Imbleau of Union, N.J., died in Salisbury, CT., on February 17, 1998. She is survived by her daughters, Yvonne Imbleau MD, Jamesburg, NJ, Cherie Imbleau, Cranbury, NJ and Valerie Imbleau, Canaan, CT.       
 KALINA-Margit (nee Raab). Age 75, survivor of Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen. On February 25, 1998, beloved wife of the late Ladislav, loving mother of Yuri and Vera, dear mother-in-law of Gilbert Levine, K.C.S.G., and Melissa Shiflett, adoring grandmother of David, Gabriel, and Rachel. May sh
 KANE-Rose. Beloved wife and mother, formerly of Wantagh, Long Island. Died at the age of 88. She was a devoted teacher in the Levittown schools for 25 years. She is survived by her son David and his wife Karen and sons Ben and Alex. She was the adored wife of the late Ellis Kane. She is als
 KENNEDY-Elizabeth W. Saint Bernard's School mourns the loss but cherishes the memory of Elizabeth W. Kennedy. For nearly thirty years she was a much loved, inspiring teacher and friend to her boys and their parents and to her colleagues.       
 MCALLISTER-Adelaide Neilson Vernon. New York and Salt Lake church, civic, and philanthropic worker and supporter of the arts, passed away February 23, 1998 of natural causes in Salt Lake City just six days short of her 96th birthday. While in New York (1930-1976) she served as vice presiden
 REED-Dr. Frances C., Ph.D. in Psychology. She leaves behind her beloved husband, Lionel C. Reed, and her four sons, Drs. Harold, Lawrence, Irving and Barry Reed. A feminist before her time, she devoted her life to the education of the slow learner and was instrumental in the development of 
 WALTER-Shirley M. Died on February 24th, 1998. Beloved wife of Arthur. Dear mother of Elisse and Ron, Alan and Terri and Abra and Matt. Devoted grandmother of Jonathan, Evan, Shoshana, Arielle, Jake and Holden. Loving sister and aunt. Funeral services Thursday, February 26th at 11 AM at Sch
 Rose Sheppard Milbank, a longtime volunteer with the Red Cross and the United Nations, and a philanthropist who supported projects in underdeveloped countries, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 81 and had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said. For
 Barbara Benson Crowther, a business manager of a law firm and a volunteer in mental health, died yesterday at her home in Palmyra, Va. She was 60 years old. She died of a heart attack, her husband, F. Bosley Crowther 3d, said. Ms. Crowther was born in New York City and managed Mr. C
 AGREE-Betty C. On Feb. 25, 1998, in her 74th year. Daughter of the late Isadore and Mary Agree. Dear sister of George E. Agree, of Washington D.C. Beloved aunt of Andrew, Robert and Jonathan. Betty will be lovingly remembered by her many friends, colleagues and relatives. Memorial services 
 BILENKER-Hinda Fisher. Of Elizabeth, NJ, Feb. 25, 1998 in Boca Raton, Florida. Loving wife of Mortimer to whom she was married for 49 years. Adored mother of Dr. Robert (Barbara) Bilenker, Judith (Maynard) Rabinowitz, Ellen (Dr. Martin) Lebosky and Dr. Arthur (Terry) Bilenker. Cherished gra
 BOYD-Emily (Quartuccio). Of Plymouth, MA, Feb. 25, age 81. Beloved wife of William T.P. Boyd Sr. Mother of Richard B. Kensington, MD, William Jr of Duxbury, MA., Lawrence of Brooklyn, NY, Mary Elizabeth of Bethesda, MD and Barbara Warren of Harrisburg, NC. Sister of William, Anthony and Phi
 LEVENSTIEN-Muriel. July 19, 1915-February 15, 1998. Truly a woman of valor. Conquered polio in childhood, lupus as a adult, gained her BA at 53, MA from NYU at 55. Devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother died of Cancer with her spirit unbroken, surrounded by her family.     
 MELLON-Valentine. The Board of America-Israel Cultural Foundation mourns with its Executive Director, Kathleen Mellon Ron, the passing of her beloved father. Jan Prokop-Hamburg Romie Shapiro Co-Chairs, Exec Committee Vera Stern President       
 MILBANK-Rose. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the psssing of Mrs. Rose Milbank, the wife of Jeremiah Milbank, our dear friend and former President and Chairman. Along with her husband Jerry, ''Po
 PARL-Ann. On February 25, 1998. A resident of Bayside, N.Y. for many years. Beloved wife of Charles V. Loving mother of Charlie and Jack. You will live in our hearts forever. We will miss you greatly. Services Monday, March 2, 11AM, Charles P. Nagel Funeral, 352 East 87 Street, New York Cit
 PATTERSON-Barbara Frost, 70, died on February 22nd, 1998, in Saint Augustine, Florida. Born in Cleveland, Ohio on November 8, 1927, the daughter of Dr. Clyde D. Frost and Ruth Harrington Frost. Employed in the early 1960's by the Southern Regional Council, a prominent Atlanta-based civil ri
 WINDWEHR-Rose Peterman, 94, died February 25, 1998. Devoted daughter of Aron and Shifra Peterman. Beloved sister of Anna, Dora, Pauline, Tillie, Albert and Joseph. Loving wife of Isadore Windwehr. Mother of Janice Adler and Marilyn Klinghoffer. Grandmother of Ilsa, Lisa, Jerry, Paul and Ian
 Chessy Rayner, a decorator, fashion icon, editor and author of ''New York: Trends and Traditions,'' a recently published book about significant Manhattan interiors, died on Thursday night at Sloan-Kettering Medical Center in New York. She was 66. Mica Ertegun, her partner in the des
 BIRNBAUM-Zaldin Ethel. Devoted wife of the late Stanley. Beloved mother of Alfred and Meg, Marty and Nancy. Dear sister of Seymour and Harriet. Adored grandmother of Stephanie, Michelle, Shane, Samantha and Elizabeth. She will be sorely missed and loved by all. Services Sunday 12:00 noon at
 BURNS-Ethel, died on February 27, 1998. For many years she was connected with educational broadcasting on WNYE-FM and WNYETV channel 25, with many of her program series winning Emmys for CBS-TV, where they were broadcast. Among the programs she produced for television and radio were America
 CLIFFORD-Katherine Corbett, of New York and Montclair, N.J., on February 21. Wife of the late Paul Clifford. Loving mother of Denis, Joanne, Steven, Gregory, Douglas, Justin and Catherine. She also leaves seven grandchildren. Memorial service on Saturday, March 7th, at 11 o'clock A.M., at S
 GOLDMEIER-Harriet. Beloved wife of Larry, adoring mother of Allen (Cheryl), Sharon (Ted), Steven (Debbie). Loving grandmother of David, Lindsey, Jason, Julie, Lori, Alex and caring sister Rita. Harriet in her short life touched so many people with her love, wisdom and innate beauty. She red
 MAY-Fay Sucherman. Died in Eugene, Oregon, on February 21, 1998, at the age of 88. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Irving May. Devoted mother of Sondra May Steinman, of Fairfax, CA, Maurice May, of Needham, MA, and Glenn May, of Eugene, OR. Grandmother of eight and great-
 MORAN-Gertrude Corbett 92 years of age, on Tuesday, February 24, 1998 in Palm Beach, Florida. Wife of the late George Francis Moran. She is survived by her daughter Laura Moran (NYC) and numerous nieces and nephews. Funeral Mass Monday March 2, 1998, St. Vincent Ferrer RC Church, NYC. Inter
 RICHARD-Mary E. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of the Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary, Inc., deeply the mourn the untimely death of our Executive Director, Mary E. Richard. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all the members of her family and to her many friends. Mary's commit
 ROBINSON - Isabel Alexander MacGregor Browne. Sunday, February 22, 1998. She is survived by her husband, Hugh, her daughter, Isabel Browne Driscoll, Corinth, VT; and sons, Belmore Browne, Durham, NH; James Robinson, Kent, CT; and MacGregor Robinson, Norfolk, CT. Isabel had ten grandchildren
 WINTHROP-Amory (Elizabeth). Of Millbrook, N.Y. Died Feb. 26, 1998. Daughter of the late Robert Winthrop and the late Theodora Ayer Randolph. Survived by her sisters Theodora Hooton and Cornelia Bonnie, and a niece and nephews. Ms. Winthrop was an accomplished horse-woman and a horse show ju
 ZELVIN-Sadie Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Arnold, February 26, in Cherry Hill, NJ. She will be remembered lovingly by sister Fay Smolin, children Eleanor Scheiner, Joseph and Norman Zelvin. Grandchildren Leslie Jaffe, Roberta Hall, Lynn Zelvin, Michael Zelvin, Diana Harris, Alexander Ze
