 Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan. She was 79. Th
 BOON-Rose. On August 30, 2001, after a lengthy illness. Mother of Stephen. Mother-in-law of Barbara and grandmother of Christopher, Jonathan and Timothy. She was the daughter of the late Harold L. Lee of Chinatown's Harold L. Lee & Sons, Inc. Services will be held at Pinelawn Memorial Park 
 BURELL-BROWN-Ruth of Amagansett, N.Y. on August 30, 2001. Survived by Christopher Soldo, daughter-in-law Lisa Soldo, two grandchildren John and Carlile Soldo, all of Santa Barbara, CA. She was a realtor with Cook-Pony Farm Real Estate for 10 years in Amagansett. Funeral Sunday 4 PM at St. L
 DYBING-Patricia B. Died on August 30 at the age of 76. She was the beloved wife of Peter Dybing who survives her and the daughter of the late Alexander Benecke and Lina Carr Benecke. A memorial service will be held at Hitchcock Presbyterian Church, Scarsdale, NY at 1PM September 4. Mrs. Dyb
 FULD-Goldie. It is with deep regret that the Board of Directors, staff and the entire CNR Health Care Network note the passing of Goldie Fuld, mother of our Chairman, Kenneth Fuld, and offer our sincerest condolences to her entire family.       
 PRINCE-Nancy Georgette. Age 60. Died on Tuesday, August 28, 2001 after a heroic fight with Leukemia. A longtime Manhattan and Westport CT. resident. Nancy is survived by her devoted friend and companion Pamela Perry, her loving family, sister Margot Rose and cousin Christine Jewel; and thre
 BARBOUR-Frederica P. The Trustees, administration, faculty, staff, students and alumni of Bank Street College of Education mourn the passing of Frederica P. Barbour. Freddie, as she was fondly known, joined The Bank Street Board in 1958, serving as its Chair from 1975 to 1979. Her spirited 
 BERGER-Roberta. The family of Roberta Berger regret to announce her passing on August 31, 2001 at 5:55 PM in her home in Rhinebeck, New York. She is survived by her husband Joseph Simchowitz, her mother Florence Babitz, her brother Harvey Babitz, her two daughters Amy and Elise Berger, thre
 BERKOWITZ-Lorraine. Of Hampton Bays, N.Y. and Sarasota, FL. Passed away suddenly on Friday morning, August 31, 2001 at Southampton Hospital at the age of 69. Lorraine was a New York City school teacher for 25 years and a long-time resident of Flushing, N.Y. She is survived by her husband Se
 CUSHING-Robin F. 76, a devoted and loving mother of R. Hunter Cushing and Hilary Cushing Block. Adoring grandmother to Alexander and Brooke Block. Beloved wife of the late Robert M. Cushing, MD, passed away peacefully at her Manhattan home on August 27, 2001, after a full accomplished and c
 DYBING-Patricia B. Died on August 30 at the age of 76. She was the beloved wife of Peter Dybing who survives her and the daughter of the late Alexander Benecke and Lina Carr Benecke. A memorial service will be held at Hitchcock Presbyterian Church, Scarsdale, NY at 1PM September 4. Mrs. Dyb
 GREENBERG-Gala Mara. Died September 1, 2001, after a valiant battle against angio sarcoma. Gale was 52 years old, she was a resident of South Florida for the past 25 years. Gale was born in New York City and raised in Roslyn Heights, Long Island where she graduated from the Wheatley School 
 KARPEL-Gladys. On August 29, 2001. Loving sister of Joseph (George). Past registrar and Interfaith Minister of The New Seminary in New York City (the institute for the training of interfaith ministers). Beloved by all her students and staff. Dearest friend of Harriet Ayers and godmother of 
 LEVINE-Suzanne Sosna. Passed away July 21, 2001. Beloved wife of 50 years of Dr. Stanley H. Levine. Cherished mother of Hana Levine, Amy Levine Samuels and Dinah Harmon, mother-in-law of Donald Tzvi Ariel, Jeffrey Samuels and Gary Harmon, loving grandmother of Tuvia, Atara and Elnatan Ariel
 LEWIS-Claudia L. The Children's Book Committee at Bank Street College of Education mourns the loss of its esteemed, long-time member and poetry advisor. In recognition of her love for children's poetry and literature, ''The Claudia Lewis Award'' was established, and is given annually for th
 LUSTERMAN-Tonia nee Sabul. Most beloved daughter of Frances and Clerc Sabul. Devoted sister of Roy, Jill and Jodi. Most cherised aunt of Matthew. Dearly loved by all who knew her. Services were held Friday, at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels.       
 PRINCE-Nancy Georgette. Age 60. Died on Tuesday, August 28, 2001 after a heroic fight with Leukemia. A longtime Manhattan and Westport CT. resident. Nancy is survived by her devoted friend and companion Pamela Perry, her loving family, sister Margot Rose and cousin Christine Jewel; and thre
 RATTERREE-Shirley Scott. At home in New Orleans, August 31, 2001. She is survived by her children Dee, Leclare III, Marion, and Scott, sons-in-law Josh DeWind and Morgan T Reese, and grandchildren Leclare IV, Sam, Will, Betsy, Lucy, Jeremy, Bubba and Sweetness. Services at Bultman Funeral H
 RUDNER-Gladys Muriel, on August 29, 2001, at 86 years. Beloved and loving wife of Albert for 66 years. Cherished mother of Jane and Reese Sherman and Judy and Jerry Kessel. Adored grandmother of Cathy and Jon Fiebach, Lynn M. Sherman, Danny and Kirstin Stiebel and Susan and Les Morgenstein.
 SANDERS-Toby. Of Palm Beach, FL, on August 31, 2001 in Pound Ridge, NY. Beautiful, beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Carole and husband Jack Berger, and Arthur Sanders and wife Dorothy. Adoring grandmother to Jody and Bruce Wenig, Jamie and Gary Katz, Jerry Sanders and Holly
 SMITH-Frances White Noble (Nannie). Age 65, on August 29, 2001 at Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y. Survived by her devoted husband, the Rev. DuBois T. Smith; a loving daughter, Dorothy Miller Smith II (Darcy); a sister, Lillian N. Potter, and two brothers, William L. Noble and Tim
 BERGER-Roberta. The family of Roberta Berger regret to announce her passing on August 31, 2001 at 5:55 PM in her home in Rhinebeck, New York. She is survived by her husband Joseph Simchowitz, her mother Florence Babitz, her brother Harvey Babitz, her two daughters Amy and Elise Berger, thre
 DEUTSCH-Ruth (nee Kosak). Of Hollywood, FL, formerly of NYC and Berlin, Germany, on September 1, 2001. Devoted daughter of the late Siegfried Kosak and the late Alma Kosak. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. With profound sorrow her family mourns her passing. Her life was her family. Loving m
 PETTY-Susan Nobert. Died August 31, 2001, at her home in Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, after a long illness. Mrs. Petty was a graduate of Brown University, class of 1965, and Northfield Mount Hermon, class of 1961. Raised in Haddam, CT, Mrs. Petty worked for Harcourt Brace in NYC after college
 SAMUELS-Ida. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Cecile Rosner upon the loss of her sister. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 Ida Russ Schwartz, one of three sisters who with their father, Joel Russ, sliced smoked salmon, pickled herrings and weighed out caviar at Russ & Daughters, their renowned appetizer store on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 24 in Pembroke Pines, Fla. She was 86. With h
 ARONOWITZ-Linda. It is with deep sorrow that the family of Linda Greenstein Aronowitz announce her passing on September 3, 2001. Linda will be greatly missed by her devoted husband, Joel, her beloved daughters Susanne and Pamela, her son-in-law Robert as well as her niece Elissa, nephew Mar
 BROWN-Honour Dickerman. Of Southbury, CT, formerly of NYC & Washington, CT, died Waterbury Hospital, Aug. 31, 2001. Daughter of the late William Carter Dickerman and Alice Carter Dickerman. She is survived by sister Cornelia Dickerman Jahncke, by daughters Alice Brown Carroll and Sara Brown
 COSLOY BLANK-Sharon, 56, the perfect daughter, wife, mother and friend passed peacefully with her family by her side on September 2. She will be missed and loved forever by husband, Edward Blank; children Rebecca and Michael; mother Florece Cosloy and brother and sister-in-law Barry and She
 HEYMAN-Edith K. (nee Marks). Age 89, on Sept. 2 in Wooster, Ohio. Born in NYC. Widow of Ben Gedalecia, with whom she worked at Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, and Harold Heyman, a teacher and businessman. She also worked for the New York City Board of Education and the Queens Botanical
 OLIVER-Ruth Blake Oliver. Of Boston, died in Mattapoisett, Massachusetts on September 1, 2001. Widow of the late Andrew Oliver, she is survived by three children, Andrew Oliver, Jr. of Chevy Chase, Maryland, Daniel Oliver of Washington, D.C. and Ruth Oliver Morley of Cambridge, Massachusett
 SCHULMAN-Mollye. The family of Mollye Schulman, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and greatgrandmother, announces her passing on Sept. 2nd, 2001. She is survived by her daughter, Tamara Director, son, Howard Schulman, 6 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren. You will be with us for eter
 WIENER-Gloria, died August 25th, 2001 after a valiant battle with cancer. She was predeceased by Don, her husband of 48 years, in November 2000. Gloria had a long, successful executive career in marketing and communications with Paine Webber and Merrill Lynch where she impressed her staff, 
 Pauline Kael, who expressed her passion for movies in jaunty, jazzy prose as the longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died yesterday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 82. Ms. Kael was probably the most influential film critic of her time. She reviewed movies for The
 BENETAR - Beatrice. Mother, grandmother, great grandmother. Always the best. Memorial gathering at her residence, Saturday, September 8, 3-6PM. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to Cancer Care.       
 BERNSTEIN-Belle K. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deepest sorrow the death of our cherished member Belle K. Bernstein. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bern
 BROWN-Honour Dickerman. Of Southbury, CT, formerly of NYC & Washington, CT, died Waterbury Hospital, Aug. 31, 2001. Daughter of the late William Carter Dickerman and Alice Carter Dickerman. She is survived by sister Cornelia Dickerman Jahncke, by daughters Alice Brown Carroll and Sara Brown
 CAMPBELL-Mary (Chesire). Formerly of E. Williston, L.I., in Shrewsbury, MA. Beloved wife of the late James E. Campbell. Mother of Todd L. Campbell and Sally C. Thomas. She also leaves two grandchildren and 1 great grandchild. Graveside funeral services Friday, September 7 in St. John's Ceme
 COHEN-Babs. We are heartbroken by the loss of our dearest friend. We will remember you for your courage, love of life and dignity to the end. Deep sympathy to Joe, Jon, Jarrod and Audrey. Nancy and Harold Oelbaum COHEN-Barbara. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels are deeply s
 CONDREN-Alice B. Age 98, a retired teacher with the N.Y.C. School System died on August 30, 2001 in Port Jefferson, N.Y. Sister of the late Mary Conway. Aunt of Ann Clancy, Mary Jane Conway Matier and the late John Conway. Great Aunt of Barbara Clancy, Mark Conway, Susan Conway Abbate, Cath
 COSLOY-BLANK-Sharon. The Biology Department of CCNY mourns the untimely death of our colleague and friend. Professor Cosloy was a world-respected research scientist and teacher. She served as chairman of the Biology Department for six years and was responsible for building the department's 
 HASKILL-Charlotte. September 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Charles, dearest mother of Carol, artist, a friend to all who knew her. Memorials may be made to Birmingham Bloomfield Art Center, Cranbrook Rd, Birmingham MI.       
 NORTON-Janis Yates Simms. The Travel Pals lost their irreplaceable Queen of Hearts. Her joy in life touched all who knew her. Love to Jeff, Jennifer, Brad and Bill for sharing her. Evelyn Cunningham, Norma Leach, Martha Lewis, Jeanne Lofton, Ersa Poston, Mary Burke Washington, Joyce Wein an
 OLIVER-Ruth Blake Oliver. Of Boston, died in Mattapoisett, Massachusetts on September 1, 2001. Widow of the late Andrew Oliver, she is survived by three children, Andrew Oliver, Jr. of Chevy Chase, Maryland, Daniel Oliver of Washington, D.C. and Ruth Oliver Morley of Cambridge, Massachusett
 REISS-Miriam. Died suddenly on Tuesday, September 4, 2001. She survived her true love, Joseph Reiss, by 24 years. Adored mother of Ed and Liz, mother-in-law of Phyllis Reiss and Alan Jaffe. Grandmother of David and Janette; Bob and Beth; Richard, Joey and Erica. Great grandmother of Zach, A
 SAMUEL-Susan, 94. Of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of New York City, passed away September 4, 2001. Pioneer in mainstreaming handicapped children. Her motto was Loving, Caring and Sharing. She received a Bachelor of Science degree in Physical Education from New York University and a Master of A
 VOROBIOV-Masha. Of Manhattan, died peacefully at age 67 on September 1 at the home of friends in Plattsburgh, NY. Masha taught Russian language and literature at Vassar College (1977-2000). She provided translation and other invaluable assistance to many Russian emigres, including the poet 
 BAIER-Edith. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague and friend. She was a director of the National Mah Jongg League, Inc. for many years and gave unselfishly of her time and energy. We will all miss her. Our deepest condolences to her daughter Susan and family. R
 BERNSTEIN-Belle K. On September 4, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Cherished mother of Tennie Leonard and Dr. Richard Bernstein and his wife Dr. Anne Bernstein. Loving grandmother of Julie Borhani, Lauren Menkes, Laura Bernstein, Jeffrey Bernstein and Lili Bernstein and great grandmo
 COHEN-Barbara. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Barbara Cohen, who earned enormous admiration and respect for her exceptional generosity and leadership on behalf of Jewish and other humanitarian causes. Jointly committed to phila
 JACKSON-Louise Russell Willauer of Westwood and Nantucket Mass. September 3, age 92. Wife of Ambassador Whiting Willauer, deceased 1962, wife of Edmund B. Jackson, deceased 1990, survived by a son, Whiting Russell Willauer, a daughter, Sally Willauer Nash, a sister, Phoebe Gregg, 6 grandson
 KLAPPER-Hope Lunin. On August 5, 2001. Very much loved and greatly respected by friends, colleagues and family. A truly outstanding person and professional. Her insightful thoughts and perceptive comments, her warmth and sense of humor will be greatly missed. A Ph.D. in Sociology from Colum
 MARKER-Feroza. The staff, patients and patients' families of the Mount Sinai Hospital of New York City express their sadness and condolences to the family of Feroza Marker on her untimely death. Ms. Marker was employed as an occupational therapist in the Alzheimer's Disease Caregiver Progra
 MILLER-Leonore Olinsky, 94. On September 4, in Kent, CT, widow of Henry, mother of John and Richard, grandmother of Ivan, Lucas, and Emily, mother-in-law of Joan McD Miller and Carol Schneider. She was the daughter of an artist, an artist herself, a lover of the arts, and most compellingly,
 REISS-Miriam. Died suddenly on Tuesday, September 4, 2001. She survived her true love, Joseph Reiss, by 24 years. Adored mother of Ed and Liz, mother-in-law of Phyllis Reiss and Alan Jaffe. Grandmother of David and Janette; Bob and Beth; Richard, Joey and Erica. Great grandmother of Zach, A
 SMITH-Pauline. Passed away September 4 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Hy, devoted mother to Stuart/Joan, Roberta/ Arnie Ursaner, Floyd/Ilyse. Cherished grandmother. She will remain forever in our hearts. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to American Cancer Society. Funeral Th
 WHITNEY-Patricia (Tailer). Of New York City, formerly of Southampton, NY and Marion, MA, August 30, 2001. Mother of Barbara Lovejoy Spring of Concord, MA and the late Christopher Winslow Lovejoy. Sister of James Bogart Tailer of Florida. Grandmother of Elizabeth Stoddard Spring, Amanda Atki
 BERNSTEIN-Belle K. On September 4, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Cherished mother of Tennie Leonard and Dr. Richard Bernstein and his wife Dr. Anne Bernstein. Loving grandmother of Julie Borhani, Lauren Menkes, Laura Bernstein, Jeffrey Bernstein and Lili Bernstein and great grandmo
 HICKS-Rebecca. The Board of Managers and staff of East Side House Settlement express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our good friend and benefactor, Mrs. Mason Hicks (Rebecca). A member of the Board from 1961 through 1987, she was a dynamic and tireless volunteer on the Winter Antiques
 KLAPPER-Hope Lunin. On September 5, 2001. Very much loved and greatly respected by friends, colleagues and family. A truly outstanding person and professional. Her insightful thoughts and perceptive comments, her warmth and sense of humor will be greatly missed. A Ph.D. in Sociology from Co
 LENTSCHNER-Dr. Esther Meltzer, retired Professor of the Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University, died April 15, 2001, at the age of 87. Born in Malden, Massachusetts, the sixth of seven children of William and Bessie Meltzer, and their first born in the United States to which
 MILLER-Leonore Olinsky, 94. On September 4, in Kent, CT, widow of Henry, mother of John and Richard, grandmother of Ivan, Lucas, and Emily, mother-in-law of Joan McD Miller and Carol Schneider. She was the daughter of an artist, an artist herself, a lover of the arts, and most compellingly,
 NEUMANN - Louise A. Born Frankfurt a/M, Germany, 1916. Died peacefully at home in Kew Gardens, NY on May 26th, 2001. She is greatly missed by her family and many friends.       
 PRINCE-Esther Ellen Greenleigh, 63, who was a teacher, customer service representative and member of the Weston area community, died of cancer at Rutland Regional Medical Center on Wednesday. Ms. Prince was born in Los Angeles, CA in 1938, and moved with her family to Larchmont, New York in
 RAND-Pearl. Born in Russia on March 13, 1911. She was active in progressive politics and helped to found the Center for Arts and Disabilities in Richmond, CA. Passed away on Tuesday, September 4. She is survived by her son, Dr. George Rand, her brother Mr. Louis Ganapoler and a loving famil
 SANDLER-Estelle. Died peacefully on September 6, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Eli. Mother of Howard and Joseph. Grandmother of eight. Great grandmother of eight. Graveside services 9:30 A.M. Sunday, September 9, Beth-David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 SEIDELMAN-Phyllis K. Of Scarsdale, N.Y., passed away on September 5, 2001 from cancer at the age of 76. She is survived by her loving husband of 53 years, Robert; son Richard and daughter Carole Anne and cherished grandson William, as well as brother Marvin Kent, several cousins, nephews an
 BERNSTEIN-Belle K. On September 4, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Cherished mother of Tennie Leonard and Dr. Richard Bernstein and his wife Dr. Anne Bernstein. Loving grandmother of Julie Borhani, Lauren Menkes, Laura Bernstein, Jeffrey Bernstein and Lili Bernstein and greatgrandmot
 DOYLE-Mary M. On September 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Lester T. Doyle. Loving mother of Kevin Doyle. Cherished grandmother of Virgil and Eliza Doyle. Dear sister of Patricia Nielsen and Catherine Meyer. Family will be receiving friends Friday 2-4 and 79 at Frank E. Campbell, The Fune
 FLIEG-Esther. On September 6, 2001 in Houston, TX. Beloved wife of the late Leo Flieg. Cherished mother of Augusta Levine and her husband, Sidney. Loving grandmother of Leslie. Esther Flieg was a longtime resident of New York City and a devoted member of the Brotherhood Synagogue. She worke
 SANDLER-Estelle. Died peacefully on September 6, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Eli. Mother of Howard and Joseph. Grandmother of eight. Great grandmother of eight. Graveside services 9:30 A.M. Sunday, September 9, Beth-David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 WAINER-Shirley, 86. Of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, passed away suddenly on September 6, 2001. Survived by her son, Paul Feinstein, & his wife Martha; daughter, Lorna Sarrel & her husband Philip; grandchildren Emily & Samantha Feinstein, Laura Robertson, Marc Sarrel and Jennifer Voelker; and g
 HOUK-Sally Homer. Of New York City, died November 16, 2000. Born September 8, 1910. A teacher at the Midtown Ethical Culture School until 1976, she ran a summer camp in the U.S. and abroad. Mother of the late Rudy, survived by sons Bruce of NYC and John of Vermont, six grandchildren and two
 KELL-Yetta. ''The great lady.'' Gone 15 years today. Her love and wisdom so greatly missed by her children and all who knew her.       
 Doris Howes Calloway, a nutritionist whose studies helped set standards for the dietary needs of people, died Aug. 31 at a nursing home in Seattle. She was 78. Dr. Calloway had Parkinson's disease, said the University of California at Berkeley, where she was a professor and a provos
 Prof. Millie Almy, a psychologist and author who was among the first to advocate special training for teachers in early childhood education, died on Aug. 15 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 86. Dr. Almy's early research convinced her that play was essential to healthy develop
 APPEL-Marjorie Mayer. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York City, passed away September 6, 2001. Loving wife of Jack. Adored mother of Jeffrey Hunter and Lynn Colwell. Cherished grandmother of Christopher, Corey, Chip and Karl. Great-grandmother of Zoe and Evan. Beloved sisterin-law of Ha
 BERNSTEIN-Belle K. On September 4, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Cherished mother of Tennie Leonard and Dr. Richard Bernstein and his wife Dr. Anne Bernstein. Loving grandmother of Julie Borhani, Lauren Menkes, Laura Bernstein, Jeffrey Bernstein and Lili Bernstein and greatgrandmot
 EISENMAN-Elizabeth Henderson. Died Saturday, September 1, 2001. She was 65 years old. Born in London to Dr. Joseph L Henderson and Helena Cornford, Elizabeth was raised in Ross, CA. She is survived by her two loving children: Julia and Nicholas Eisenman, her devoted father Dr. Joseph Hender
 GARDNER - Joan Aylsworth. Thursday, September 6, 2001, in Washington, DC. Survived by her husband Arthur W. Gardner; sister Alison Landor of Phoenix, AZ; daughters Hilary Peterson of Washington, DC, and Blake Cook of New Vernon, NJ; and grandchildren Mark & Arthur Peterson, & Wendell, Hale 
 HAMMELL-Margaret Holmes. Age 78, of Charlottesville, VA, died peacefully in her sleep on August 28, 2001. Born January 11, 1923, in Augusta, GA, she was the daughter of the late Dr. L. Palmer Holmes and Minnie Thomas Groover Holmes. In addition to her parents, she was preceded in death by h
 HICKS-Rebecca T. It is with deep sorrow that the family of Rebecca Tarwater Hicks announces her passing on August 29 in Princeton, NJ at the age of 92, after a brief illness. Born in Rockwood, Tennessee on November 24, 1908, the daughter of Polk and Grace Spears Tarwater, Mrs. Hicks was the
 KADISON-Shirley Bierman Feigen. Died in Chicago, IL, August 10, 2001. Born Brooklyn, NY, March 22, 1906. Married in 1928 to Arthur Feigen (died 1967). Married in 1969 to Joseph Kadison, who survives her. Graduated from Northwestern University, 1928. Active on boards of American Association 
 LEHR-Sylvia K. August 20, 2001 in Greenville, SC. Beloved mother of Rebeka Gottesman and Robert Lehr; loving sister of Evelyn Kushin, and David and Muriel Kaufman; dear grandmother (Grambo) of Jay Gottesman and his wife Donna, and great grandmother (Gigi) of Elizabeth Paige, Jeffrey Thomas 
 MANDEL-Beverly H. Of White Plains, NY, died September 1, 2001 at age 78. Born in Queens, NY, she graduated from Queens College, NY with dual majors in Art History and Music. As a painter specializing in geometric colorism, her paintings appeared in showings in Chicago, San Francisco and New
 MEYEMBERG-Josefina O. September 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Guillermo. Loving sister of Carmen Galdos, Rosario Olazabal and Maria Luisa Obregon. Cherished aunt of Rosario and her husband Manuel Delgado and Francisco Olazabal and his wife Elizabeth. She will be deeply missed by all who
 SANDERS-Rose. 86, of Brooklyn, NY. Died of natural causes peacefully at home on September 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Charles Sanders. Devoted mother of Eleanor Rovell, Mitzi White and Ira Sanders. Grandmother of seven and great-grandmother of three. Devoted much of her time to The Ch
 SMULL-Mavis Lyons. Of Tamworth, NH, formerly NYC, passed away on September 5, 2001. Mavis dedicated her life to film editing, working on numerous documentary and educational films. She was an active member of the Motion Picture Editors Guild. Beloved wife of William Smull. Devoted mother to
 VOGEL-Florence. On September 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Max. Loving mother of Bert and Joyce. Adoring grandmother of Peter. A very special lady who devoted herself to her family, friends and those in need. Founding member of The Ruth Kirzon Group for Handicapped Children. She was lov
 WAINER-Shirley, 86. Of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, passed away suddenly on September 6, 2001. Survived by her son, Paul Feinstein, & his wife Martha; daughter, Lorna Sarrel & her husband Philip; grandchildren Emily & Samantha Feinstein, Laura Robertson, Marc Sarrel and Jennifer Voelker; and g
 WHITNEY-Patricia (Tailer). Of New York City, formerly of Southampton, NY and Marion, MA, August 30, 2001. Mother of Barbara Lovejoy Spring of Concord, MA and the late Christopher Winslow Lovejoy. Sister of James Bogart Tailer of Florida. Grandmother of Elizabeth Stoddard Spring, Amanda Atki
 WIENER-Gloria, died August 25th, 2001 after a valiant battle with cancer. She was predeceased by Don, her husband of 48 years, in November 2000. Gloria had a long, successful executive career in marketing and communications with Paine Webber and Merrill Lynch where she impressed her staff, 
 BRODY-Adele Cecile. A remarkable woman, vivacious, intelligent and witty, generous and concerned, brave and beautiful, memorable to all that met her. Her many friends will miss her companionship. Wife of the late Andrew Brody for 49 years. Mother of Cora B. Marcus and Ellen K. Brody. Grandm
 GROSSMAN-Nancy Sue. 52, an idealist to the end, died Saturday, September 8, 2001, after a long and courageous struggle. Beloved wife of Van Yasek. Cherished daughter of Muriel and Buddy Grossman. Adored by her brother Robert and Lis Grossman. Loving aunt of Laura, Katie and Teddy, beloved n
 MAYER-Julius. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Rose Mayer upon the loss of her husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 MEYEMBERG-Josefina O. September 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Guillermo. Loving sister of Carmen Galdos, Rosario Olazabal, Maria Luisa Obregon and the late Gloria Freeman. Cherished aunt of Rosario and her husband Manuel Delgado and Francisco Olazabal and his wife Elizabeth. She will be
 POLLARD-Annette Lenore. On September 9, 2001. Devoted mother of Barbara Pollard Stein and Gary Pollard, beloved grandmother of Julie and Laura Stein, caring mother-in-law of Dr. Mitchell Stein. We will miss your vitality and warmth. Service Monday, September 10, 9:30 AM, at ''Westchester Re
 BRODY-Adele. A remarkable woman, vivacious, intelligent and witty, generous and concerned, brave and beautiful, memorable to all who met her. Her many friends will miss her companionship. Wife of the late Andrew Brody for 49 years. Mother of Cora B. Marcus and Ellen K. Brody. Grandmother of
 DALSIMER-Dorothy. Loving widow of Philip, active and devoted mother, caring and supportive grandmother, adoring great grandmother, a sister and good friend of many, died September 9, 2001 at a youthful 88. She was a cherished part of our lives. Memorial service to be held Sunday, October 21
 FRANKENSTEIN-Dorothy (Shupack). Passed away in her 90th year at North Shore Hospital, Forest Hills, after a recurring illness. A Brooklyn-born, New York native, she was the daughter of the late Usher and Charna Shupack. A child prodigy and unique for her time, she graduated Hunter College a
 GREENBURG-Janice. Devoted and loving mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and friend died Sunday, September 9, 2001 after a courageous battle against cancer. She was preceded in death by her husband Robert Greenburg and her sister, Annette Evins. She was the daughter of Rebecca and Mike Maltz.
 LAZERWITZ-Beverly. Truly a valiant woman. On September 9, 2001. Beloved wife of Miles. Adored mother of Alison, Michael and Larry. Mother-in-law of Ali and Jennifer. Grandmother of Catherine, Emily, Sam, Claire, Max and Harry. She was a great and wonderful friend to all those she cared for 
 SAJEWICZ-Anne. On Sept. 7, 2001, in her 88th year. Predeceased by her sister Mary. Visitation Wednesday, 6-9 PM, John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave., NYC. Mass of Christian burial on Thursday, 9:30 AM at St. Stanislaus Church, 101 East 7th Street. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery.    
 SAXON-Florence (nee Bloom). Age 81. Of North Miami Beach, FL. on August 30, 2001. Beloved and loving wife of Bernard Saxon for 61 years. Cherished mother & mother-in-law of Michele Saxon of Manhattan and Stephanie and Sam Levine of Aventura, Florida. Devoted grandmother of Erica and Andrea 
 SCHACK-Leonard. Age 92, on September 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Lola. Devoted brother of Wilma. Loving father of Linda and Kenneth. Father-in-law of Marcia and Myron. Grandfather of Melissa, Justin, Neal, Pamela and her husband Andrew. Great-grandfather of Joshua and Aaron. Funeral service
 SCHWARZ-Karl. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board member Beppie Barth upon the loss of her father and member Deena Fiedler upon the loss of her grandfather. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable
 GOLDSTEIN-Belle. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our most beloved Honorary President and activist in the creation of the State of Israel and a pioneer in the development of religious Zionism. Belle Goldstein was an early leader of Mizrachi Women, and its third National President. S
 SWEET-Barbara McGraw, 83, died September 10 at her home in Lake Placid, NY. Born December 6, 1917, in Madison, NJ, she was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James H. McGraw, Jr. (Kathryn Jones Decker) of New York. Her father was President and Chairman of the Board of McGraw-Hill and the son of t
 Alice Stewart Trillin -- an educator, film producer and author also known as the muse of her husband, the humorist Calvin Trillin -- died on Tuesday evening at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 63. The cause of death was heart failure resulting from radiation damage to her hea
 Barbara K. Olson, who was killed on Tuesday on the commercial jetliner that was hijacked and flown into the Pentagon, was well known to television viewers across the nation as a combative and confident political commentator representing the conservative Republican point of view. Mrs
 Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman fo
 Lisa J. Raines, one of the earliest and most prominent lobbyists for the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday in the crash of the hijacked airplane that hit the Pentagon. She was 42 and lived in Great Falls, Va. Ms. Raines was senior vice president for government relations at the
 DVONCH-Mara Sebrionsky, violinist, nee Bess Simon died August 30, 2001 on Bainbridge Island, WA. She was born in New York City, New York in 1914. Mara attended Juilliard School of the Arts. She was a Naumberg Prize winner and played under Stokowski, Steinberg, Previn and Beecham. She was as
 REDMOND-Frances Jones. On September 11, 2001 at the Osborn retirement home in Rye, NY. She was 101 years old. Born on June 25, 1900 in Brooklyn, NY she was the daughter of the late Sally and Matthew Carpenter Jones and sister of the late Matthew Carpenter Jones, Jr. Mrs. Redmond graduated f
 ROSENBERG-Ann. The Merrick Jewish Centre, Congregation Ohrtorah, mourns the passing of our beloved member Ann Rosenberg and extends heartfelt condolences to her dear family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Service at Boulevard Funeral Home in Hewlett, Long
 WATT-Billie Lou. On September 7th. Billie Lou Watt, wife of actor Hal Studer, died of lung cancer. Ms. Watt, a George Abbott ingenue, appeared in numerous Broadway plays, including Kiss and Tell and Barefoot Boy With Cheek. She had a thirteen year run on Search For Tomorrow and appeared on 
 ANARGEROS-Mary (Sotos)/ Died September 11, 2001. Mary was born in New York City. Her husband Michael, predeceased her August 11, 1991. He owned Flowers By Anargeros in Brooklyn, NY. Mary is survived by two nephews T. Sotos and J. Paraskos, three grandnieces and and grandnephews and many God
 MANN-Marion. On September 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Robert and Meryl, Jeffrey and Ann, and Michael and Meryl. Cherished grandmother of Randy, Alex and Gabi, David, Denise, Tracey and Peter, Betsy and Adam. MANN-Marion. Our hearts go out to our dear
 MARSH-Elizabeth Allen Forstmann. Died after a long illness at home in NYC on September 9, 2001. Wife of the late Curt Forstmann and the late Seabury Marsh. Survived by her children, Peter Forstmann, Anna L. F. Kealy, and Richard Forstmann, seven grandchildren, and five greatgrandchildren. I
 OLSON-Barbara. The Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University mourns the tragic and untimely passing of Barbara Bracher Olson, 1989 Cardozo graduate who died in the terrible terrorist attack on the Pentagon. At CSL she was chapter president of the Federalist Society, then becam
 SHEFFIELD-R. Genevieve. Of NYC, died on September 12, 2001. Survived by her niece Julian Sheffield. At St. Mary's Episcopal Church, 521 West 126 St., NYC, friends will be received 5-8PM Sunday, Sept. 16, and a funeral will be held at 11AM Monday, Sept. 17.       
 TRILLIN-Alice. The New York Public Library mourns the passing of its friend and supporter, Alice Trillin, the beloved wife of the Library's esteemed Trustee, Calvin Trillin. We will always remember her many accomplishments as an educator, film producer, and author, for her role as her husba
 VAN DE MAELE-Joan. The Board of Directors of The Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation mourns the death of Joan Van de Maele on Tuesday, September 12, in Miami Beach. She was born September 3, 1912, and was the daughter of Harry Frank Guggenheim and Helen Matzinger. Mrs. Van de Maele was a Capt
 Dorothy McGuire, who came to Hollywood from Broadway to repeat her 1941 stage success in the title role in ''Claudia,'' and went on to have a long and distinguished film career playing sensitive, intelligent and steadfast women, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 83. Mis
 Mara Sebrionsky Dvonch, a violinist, died on Aug. 30 at her home in Bainbridge Island, Wash. She was 87. Ms. Dvonch began her career in 1939 as a winner of a Walter W. Naumberg Musical Foundation Award, which carried the promise of a New York debut. That October, in her first appear
 KITAY-Betti on September 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Victor Kitay. Cherished mother of Arlene and Robert Kaplan and Madeline and Monte Wolfson. Loving grandmother of Marc, Wendy and Jim, David & Jessica, Ricky and Courtney. Great grandmother of Vanessa. Sister of Sylvia Glassman and 
 KLITZMAN-Karen Joyce, 38. Beloved twin sister of Donna, sister of Robert and Susan, daughter of Joan and the late Joseph and aunt of Joseph Elliott, died while working at e-Speed, a division of Cantor Fitzgerald, on the 105th floor of the World Trade Center, Tower One, Tuesday, September 11
 MATERA-Barbara. Costume maker and designer, died September 13, 2001 at New York University Medical Center. She is survived by her husband and business partner, Arthur Matera, her sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, her nieces, Ann Wills, Eve Grasham, and Lynn Ritchie-Fallon, 3 great nephews and
 SHEFFIELD-R. Genevieve. Of NYC, died on September 12, 2001. Survived by her niece Julian Sheffield. At St. Mary's Episcopal Church, 521 West 126 St., NYC, friends will be received 5-8PM Sunday, Sept. 16, and a funeral will be held at 11AM Monday, Sept. 17.       
 ZUCKER-Ilene. The New York County Democratic Committee mourns the passing of our longtime friend and leader, Ilene Zucker, who died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Her dedication as executive director of the County Democratic Party, as chief of staff for Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell, as 
 Barbara Matera, a costumer who for five decades dressed the casts of the New York City Ballet, the Metropolitan Opera, movies and more than 100 Broadway shows, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center in New York. She was 72 and had homes in Manhattan and Athens, N.Y.     
 CONNELLY-Kathryn L., 80. Of Vero Beach, FL. formerly of Brookville, NY died September 10, 2001. Mrs. Connelly was one of the founders of The School of the Holy Child, Old Westbury, New York; and a former member of Nassau Country Club, Glen Cove, New York. Survivors include three sons, Willi
 DALSIMER-Dorothy. Loving widow of Philip, active and devoted mother, caring and supportive grandmother, adoring great grandmother, a sister and good friend of many, died September 9, 2001 at a youthful 88. She was a cherished part of our lives. Memorial service to be held Sunday, October 21
 KAHN-POLZO-Mathi. It is with tremendous sadness that the entire Beth Isreal Medical Center family joins with the physicians, residents and staff in the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology in acknowledging the untimely passing of our beloved and respected colleague and friend, Mathi KahnPo
 KITAY-Betti on September 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Victor Kitay. Cherished mother of Arlene and Robert Kaplan and Madeline and Monte Wolfson. Loving grandmother of Marc, Wendy and Jim, David & Jessica, Ricky and Courtney. Great grandmother of Vanessa. Sister of Sylvia Glassman and 
 KLITZMAN-Karen Joyce, 38. Beloved twin sister of Donna, sister of Robert and Susan, daughter of Joan and the late Joseph and aunt of Joseph Elliott, died while working at e-Speed, a division of Cantor Fitzgerald, on the 105th floor of the World Trade Center, Tower One, Tuesday, September 11
 KOLBER-Sandra (nee Maizel). Peacefully, surrounded by her loving family after surviving a very difficult ten year battle with a variety of illnesses, Wednesday, September 12, 2001. Beloved wife, best friend & true love of Senator E. Leo Kolber. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Lynne and 
 MATERA-Barbara. Peter Martins and the New York City Ballet mourn the passing of our dear colleague and cherished friend, Barbar Matera. We shall always remember her compassion, her elegance, and, most certainly, her extraordinary talents. Barbara not only brought beauty to our stage, but al
 MELNICK-Helen. After many years of affectionate and deep concern for her friends & familymost especially for her daughter, Jane Melnick, who shared in many of her mother's interestsHelen died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday, August 25. Through her continued support of Opengate Inc, a resid
 NEHRER-Naomi Ann Lamport. A very special lady passed away suddenly on Monday, September 10, 2001. She was devoted to her family, its history, her friends and colleagues at work. Daughter of the late Estelle and Morris Satin, beloved wife of Arthur, wonderful mother of Jonathan and Sarah Neh
 RABKIN-Frieda Hoch, 87. Sol's love for 58 years, Nancy's beautiful mother, Len's ardent motherin-law, Edith Cohen's sister, Catharine's friend of 50+ years. Teacher, librarian, mentor, volunteer, advocate, book lover, she went gentle into the night on September 3rd. Donations in her memory 
 RUBENSTEIN - Barbara. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend Barbara Rubenstein and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband and our esteemed member, Mark and their fami
 SIMON-Bella. Born in Germany, May 26, 1903, and died peacefully on September 15, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Walter Simon. She is survived by her son & daughterin-law Dr. Manfred and Susanne Simon. Adored by grandsons Mark, Daniel and Erik and their spouses Melissa & Jody. Devoted great-
 TRILLIN-Alice. The Department of Pediatrics at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center deeply mourns the death of Alice Trillin, a constant friend and supporter of our patients and their families. Alice had survived cancer early in her life and, through talks and lectures to children and stud
 SCHLACHTER-Helen. Her 90th Birthday. Sadly missed these seven long years. With everlasting love, daughters Susan and Karen       
 ASKWITH-Miriam (MiMi). Age 79, passed away pecefully at home on September 15. She is survived by her husband, Bertram J. of Harrison, NY and her children, Patricia Kenner and Kathy Franklin of NYC and Dennis of Gaithersburg, MD, sons-in-law Jeffrey Kenner and Laurence Franklin, daughterin-l
 CASNER-Susan. Beloved wife of Harry Miller and mother to Amanda and Zachary Miller, sister of Martha Ives and Anne Darkoff, died at age 53 of Lou Gehrig's Disease. She was an inspiration to all of us who knew her. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to ALSA, New York Chapter, 116 John 
 COWITT-Sylvia (Herschenhous). Of West Palm Beach, FL, on September 14, 2001. Born September 1, 1910, in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Jack Cowitt. Devoted mother of Bette Blankfein (Richard) and Dr. Owen Cowitt (Robin). Grandmother of Eric and Roger, Jeffrey and Hayley, and great-
 KIMELMAN-Mary Jo, 34. An employee of Cantor Fitzgerald was working on the 105th floor of The World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. She is survived by her parents, Michael & Pat Kimelman, Terre and Sam Wallach, her sister Dara Berliner (Eric), Brothers Michael (Sally), Scott (Mary), her 
 PORGES-Suzanne F. Died at home in NYC on September 13. Beloved mother of Robert F. and George W. Cherished mother-inlaw of Felicia and Nicole. Grandmother of John A. and Vicki Eisner. Great-grandmother of Dylan Robert Porges. Born in Vienna in 1908 she escaped the Holocaust and immigrated w
 TERBELL-Margaret Nicoll. Widow of Thomas Terbell, passed away on September 10 of pneumonia at age 90. She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Gerli Whittelsey, a son, John E. Gerli Jr.; a step-daughter, Joan Knowles and a step-son, Thomas G. Terbell Jr. She is also survived by 4 grandchildr
 ASKWITH-Mimi. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepst sympathy to her husband Bert, her children Dennis, Jeff, Patricia, Kathy and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Bernard Dienstag, C
 BASESCU-Elinor. 74, died of cancer on September 15. Wife of Sabert; mother of Claire, Neil and Maria; mother-in-law of Arthur, Elizabeth and Mary; grandmother of Jacob, Rebecca, Max, Simon, Sophie, Dylan and Alex. She was an amazing, complicated, incredibly warm, generous and greatly cheris
 CASNER-Susan. Beloved wife of Harry Miller and mother to Amanda and Zachary Miller, sister of Martha Ives and Anne Dankoff. She was an inspiration to all of us who knew her. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to ALSA, New York Chapter, 116 John St., NY, NY 10038. CASNER-Susan.
 de RHAM-Lee (nee McCabe), 89 died September 16, 2001. She was predeased by her son Tom and her husband Richard, and is survived by her son Pierre and her daughter Emily. A funeral service will be held at St. Philip's Church in Garrison on Thursday, September 20th at 11 AM. Contributions may
 EISENSTADT-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, dear mother of Marvin and Barbara, Gladys, Ira and Deirdre Howley, Ellen and Herbert Cohen, cherished grandmother and loving great-grandmother. Service Thursday September 20, 10am. ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn
 GREEN-Judith. We mourn the loss of a cherished friend, a best selling author whose wit and joy of life enriched the lives of all who knew and loved her. Our condolences to her daughter Christina, son Nicholas, and family Martin Richards, Sam Crothers and the Producer Circle       
 HARTMANN-Audrey M. Beloved wife of Peter W. Loving mother of Karin, Christiane and Anton. Grandmother of ten and good friend of many. Died on Sunday September 16, 2001 at Lawrence Hospital. She is survived by her five siblings. Visiting hours are at the The Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Hom
 LEGENDY-Ann (Aniko). Age 92. Peacefully died September 16. For many years we loved her very much; now we will miss her.       
 MATERA-Barbara. Costume maker and designer, died September 13, 2001 at New York University Medical Center. She is survived by her husband and business partner, Arthur Matera, her sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, her nieces, Ann Wills, Eve Grasham, and Lynn Ritchie-Fallon, 3 great nephews and
 MORRISON-Meta. Beloved wife of the late Ed Morrison, passed away September 12, 2001. She is survived by daughters Susan Appelbaum of Charlotte, NC, and Nancy Solomon of Weston, MA; grandchildren Julie Stein, Lauren Appelbaum, Mitchell and Leslie Solomon; great-grandsons Benjamin and Jamie S
 PASTERNAK-Shirley. We were saddened to learn of the passing of Shirley Pasternak, aged 95, dear Mother of Alvin Rose, who was loved by all. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family. Co-workers of Answer America       
 PORGES-Suzanne F. Died at home in NYC on September 13. Beloved mother of Robert F. and George W. Cherished mother-inlaw of Felicia and Nicole. Grandmother of John A. and Vicki Eisner. Great-grandmother of Dylan Robert Porges. Born in Vienna in 1908 she escaped the Holocaust and immigrated w
 ZAVALKOFF-Dinah. In Montreal on September 13, 2001, at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Abe. Devoted mother and mother-inlaw of Norman and the late Mona, Ruth and the late Henry Lindenbaum. Grandmother to Avi, Michael and Philip Lindenbaum and Brian and Anne Zavalkoff. ZAVALKOFF-Din
 ALAGERO-Gertrude M. ''Trudi''. In New York City, September 11, 2001. Formerly of Saugus, MA. Senior Vice President for Marsh Private Client Services at World Trade Center. Engaged to Peter B. Walther of NYC. Memorial hours at Kirby Funeral Home, Winthrop, MA., 4-8PM, Thursday. Memorial Mass
 ARKIN-Lillian Edith Goldman. 97, of Brooklyn, NY, died on Sunday, September 16, 2001 at Methodist Hospital after a short illness. She was predeceased by her husband Murray Arkin. Survivors include a son, Bruce Arkin of Pawleys Island, SC, and a daughter, Linda Arkin of Brooklyn, NY, two gra
 BASESCU-Elinor. 74, died of cancer on September 15. Wife of Sabert; mother of Claire, Neil and Maria; mother-in-law of Arthur, Elizabeth and Mary; grandmother of Jacob, Rebecca, Max, Simon, Sophie, Dylan and Alex. She was an amazing, complicated, incredibly warm, generous and greatly cheris
 COLODNER-Patricia M., 39, on September 11, 2001. Beloved wife of Warren H. Colodner and mother of Colby (9) and Jordan (2-1/2). Daughter of Marie Pitchford and sister of Dean, Stanford and James Pitchford. Step-daughter of Sylvia Colodner and step-mother of Gregory Colodner and Courtney Dal
 FARRELL-Alys Jane. Died at Central Suffolk Hospital Riverhead New York on September 16, 2001. She was born and raised in Wyoming Valley, PA. She graduated College Preparatory School-Wyoming Seminary. She went on to attend Syracuse University and Tobe-Coburn School of Fashion Design in New Y
 GARVIN-Sylvia Sato. 91. Of Bay Shore, New York. On September 6th. Beloved wife of Lawrence Garvin. Daughter of Kunitaro (Henry) Sato, native of Niigata, Japan and Beatrice Effie Oulman of Mankato, Minn. Dear sister of the late Henry Oulman of Seattle, Washington. In the latter years of her 
 GREEN-Judith. We mourn the loss of a cherished friend, a best selling author whose wit and joy of life enriched the lives of all who knew and loved her. Our condolences to her daughter Christina, son Nicholas, and family Martin Richards, Sam Crothers and the Producer Circle       
 LOGLER-Elizabeth Claire (Beth). 31 years old, of New York City and formerly of Rockville Centre, Long Island, tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Beth was a Vice President of E-Speed, a division of Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th floor of the World Trade Center. She w
 MATERA-Barbara. In Memoriam: We, the employees of Barbara Matera, Ltd., express our heartfelt sorrow at the passing of Barbara Matera, as well as our gratitude for being a part of her unique world. Barbara, as our mentor and teacher, believed strongly in our ability to accomplish our goals 
 SALAZAR-Carmen Emelia S. September 18, 2001. Beloved daughter of Carmen and the late Carlos Salazar, devoted sister of Miriam S. Leidesdorf and her husband William A. Loving aunt of Alexandra M. S. Leidesdorf. Beloved granddaughter of the late General Marco A. Salazar, who was one of the fo
 SILLECK-Selina E.A. Died September 7, born in Brooklyn, NY April 9, 1913; daughter of the late Millie Osborn and W. Fred Silleck, Jr., resident of Ridgefield, CT since 1983; graduate of Erasmus Hall High School, Adelphi College, New York University; former head of the Department of Physical
 BOFFA-Mary Catherine nee Murphy. Taken from her loving family at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Loving daughter of the late Anne and John Murphy, dear sister of Margaret Trudeau, Elizabeth Murphy and Diane and Charles Brierley, devoted aunt of Maureen and Michael Trudeau and 
 COLODNER-Patricia M., 39, on September 11, 2001. Beloved wife of Warren H. Colodner and mother of Colby (9) and Jordan (2-1/2). Daughter of Marie Pitchford and sister of Dean, Stanford and James Pitchford. Daughter-in law of Sylvia Colodner and step-mother of Gregory Colodner and Courtney D
 DAVIDSON-Grace E. A longtime resident of New Jersey, died on September 14th, 2001. Lifetime companion of Patricia Valoon, beloved sister of Lavinia M. Davidson and brother-in-law George Hastings, and devoted aunt to 11 nieces and nephews, including Lauren Lazzaro of Westwood and Susan Fillg
 HERZSTEIN-Rosella. After a prolonged illness, on September 18, 2001. We will miss her. Beloved wife of Joseph; sister of Alfred, Jeane, Pearl & Frances. Survived by Herbert, Karen, Susan, Wilma, Steven and William. Memorial to be announced. Donations to the Education Foundation, New York St
 MATERA-Barbara. The entire staff and company of American Ballet Theatre honor the memory of Barbara Matera who will be sorely missed by all. Barbara was such an important part of the ABT family and her artistry, dedication and love of the theatre are irreplaceable. Barbara's memory will liv
 SCHUTZ-Ruth, age 85, died peacefully in her home in Manhattan's Greenwich Village. She is survived by her loving husband of 61 years, Nathan R.; adoring children, Carol and Tom; devoted grandchildren, Michael and Daniel; loyal sisters, Gertrude and Sylvia; wonderful brother and sister-in-la
 SELIGSON-Lilian Yohalem. Age 101. Died at home, September 19th. Widow of Harold P. Seligson, Esq. Mother of Carl H. and the late Paul Y. Seligson. Mother-in-law of Brenda and Bonnie. Grandmother of Susan and Greg Pattenaude, Judy and Tim Keller, Barbara and Bob Zweig, James Lieberman, Nina 
 MARKS-Ruth. Three years today. Her song has ended but the melody lingers on. We miss you. Joyce, Jason, Greg and Jordana       
 WINSLOW - Diane. Memorial Mass for our dear friend Saturday September 22, Noon, Holy Innocents, 128 W 37, NYC. Diane was born May 26, 1943 in the Shandong Compound, Japanese-prisoner-ofwar camp, Weihsien, China and died on her 58th birthday, in Houston, TX, from brain tumors. She was a grad
 BANCROFT-Millicent (Penny). On Tuesday, September 18 at Lake Shore Hospital, Irving, New York. Formerly of Park Avenue, Manhattan, NYC and since September 1994 a resident at St. Columban's on the Lake, Silver Creek, NY. Born March 30, 1905 Penny graduated from the Eastman School of Music, R
 DAVIDSON-Grace E. The Auxiliary of NYU Medical Center extends our deepest condolences to our esteemed president, Patricia Valoon, on the death of her lifetime companion. Our thoughts are with you.       
 FARRELL-Joanne, September 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John J. Farrell. Loving sister of Patricia Rack, the late William R. Lynch and the late Edward Lynch. Devoted niece of the late Rose Cashin. Loving aunt of Joanne Farnum and Barbara Pickett. She will be deeply missed by all who kn
 FROMMER-Mark. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the beloved father of Elisa Freilich, and extends heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President FROMMER - Mark. Riverdale Jewish
 JACOBS-WELSH-Deborah Ann. July 20, 1952-September 11, 2001. We remember our beloved Deborah Ann Jacobs-Welsh, who lost her life tragically while on duty on United Airlines Flight 93 on September 11, 2001. Deborah, of suburban Philadelphia, is survived by her husband Patrick Charles Welsh, h
 KRUBITCH-Mary, 94. On September 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Loving aunt, dear great aunt, and great-great aunt. Past president of her local B'nai B'rith chapter. Graveside service on Sunday at 11 A.M. Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, N.Y.       
 POLLAK-Ettus. Congregation Orach Chaim conveys its heartfelt condolences to Isaac and Bonnie Pollak, our devoted members of the Board and to the entire family on the passing of their beloved mother and family matriarch, a survivor of the Holocaust. She and her late husband succeeded in buil
 PORGES-Suzanne Florence, nee Oberlander, artist, died at her home in Manhattan on September 13th, at 93 years, following a long illness. Born in Vienna, Austria, she emigrated to the United States with her husband and young children in 1938, shortly following the Anschluss. She resided for 
 Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London. She was 89. Ms. Dudley had lived in London si
 GREISMAN-Leah D. On September 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jacob Greisman. Loving mother of Dr. Stewart G. Greisman and Lois C. Greisman. Adored grandmother of Laura, Jill and Jack. Mother-in-law of Dr. Lisa Babitz. Sister of the late Juliet Zekster, aunt of Elizabeth Girardat and
 KINGSLEY-Judith Willenkin. On September 20, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Stephen Kingsley. Devoted and adored mother of Beth. Cherished daughter of Ruth and Lou Willenkin. Devoted sister of Dr. Matthew Willenkin. Loving aunt. She touched many lives. Service at United Jewish Center, 141 Deerhil
 LIPSKY-Hannah. The Faculty and Staff of the Divison of Social Work and Behavorial Science Department of Community and Preventive Medicine of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the death of Mrs. Hannah Lipsky. She was a longterm member of our faculty who retired in 1981 
 LODES-Gretta. 88, on September 19. Born Galway, Ireland, formerly of Oyster Bay, NY. Survived by daughter Margaret Gale and sonin-law David Gale of NY; brother William Connors and many nieces and nephews in Ireland; also by her ''other family,'' the family of David R. Grace. Friends may cal
 SEYMOUR-Karen Lynn. Wife of William Dietrich and mother of Sarah and William Dietrich, was among those lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. She is also survived by her father, David Seymour of Littlestown, PA., her mother Catherine Seymour and sister Debra An
 WEIL-Joanne. Missing in the World Trade Center tragedy. The Board of Governors and membership of Fairview Country Club mourn the sudden loss of our beloved member, Joanne Weil. Joanne grew up at Fairview and will be deeply missed by her many friends and family. On behalf of all our members,
 Catherine G. Fabricant, an early proponent of the theory that herpes infections can lay the groundwork for a common form of heart disease, died Sept. 13 at a nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 81. The cause of death was kidney failure, her family said. The theory that some
 FARRELL-Joanne, September 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John J. Farrell. Loving sister of Patricia Rack, the late William R. Lynch and the late Edward Lynch. Devoted niece of the late Rose Cashin. Loving aunt of Joanne Farnum and Barbara Pickett. She will be deeply missed by all who kn
 GREISMAN-Leah Davis. The Hunter College community mourns the passing on Friday of our esteemed alumna. A former President of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund and Trustee of the Hunter College Foundation, Leah Greisman was a member of the Alumni Association Hall of Fame and was given its Dis
 LEWIS-Julianne Oppenheimer, September 21, at 80. A tireless community leader in Garden City, NY. Past president of the school and library boards. A 1942 Skidmore College graduate and a WAVE in W.W. II. Loving wife of Lawrence (1908-1982), she leaves Lawrence Jr., Robert, Geoffrey and James 
 LYNN-Rose W. Died peacefully in Seattle, WA. She was preceded in death by her husband Louis R. Lynn. She is survived by her children Nancy, Martin, Rebecca; grandson, Michael Hatjiyannis, and Daniel, and daughter-in-law Ellen. Her memory will serve as an eternal blessing to all who knew and
 RUSSAK-Mary. 96, died peacefully at home on September 19, 2001. A lifelong social work activist and tireless advocate for peace, justice and equality, she remained vibrant and committed to social reform until her final moments. She will be deeply missed and lovingly remembered by her family
 SEYMOUR-Karen Lynn. Wife of William Dietrich and mother of Sarah and William Dietrich, was among those lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. She is also survived by her father, David Seymour of Littlestown, PA., her mother Catherine Seymour and sister Debra An
 Lynn Payer, a science writer and medical journalist best known for her books about the impact of culture on medical care, died Saturday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, Cheryl Payer, her only immediate 
 HATCH-Luzie. On September 16, 2001 at the age of 89. Ms. Hatch was born in Germany on May 9, 1912. Dedicated employee and officer of the American Jewish Committee. Ms. Hatch, a Holocaust survivor, emigrated to the United States in 1938. She was the proud recipient of the Order of Merit of t
 HERTZLICH-Ruth. Of Briarcliff Manor, NY on September 23, 2001 of Alzheimer's disease. Beloved wife of Leonard, devoted mother to Helaine Herwitz & Caryl Hahn. Mother-in-law to Gary Herwitz and Jeff Hahn. Loving grandmother to Zoe, Michael, Evan and Alison. Cherished sister to Mal Seligman a
 HOLTZBERG-Mina. Mina Holtzberg, 89 years old died peacefully at her home in Stony Brook, NY, on September 21, 2001. Assistant professor at NYU School of Social Work and Downstate Medical School Family Medicine. Predeceased by husband Milton, who died in the Normandy Invasion and is buried t
 ISRAEL-Ruth Lustbader. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died in California, September 20, in her 101st year. Born and raised in New York City, a longtime resident and keen observer of the urban scene, she took part in many of our civic and charitable activities, from the Gi
 LIVINGSTON-Helen Bayer. On September 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Norman, loving mother of Tammy and Jerry Weintraub, Louis B. and Mari Livingston, and Toni Bayer. Adored grandmother of Melissa Weintraub Kohl, Amanda Weintraub Ratliff, and Diana, Alex and Annie Livingston. Dear great-
 ROSENBERG-Nancy Lee, nee Klein. January 1, 1945-September 22, 2001, Cheltenham High School 1962, Barnard 1966, Columbia Teacher's College 1970, Palmer School 1996. Involved citizen of her community, admired co-worker, book reviewer, teacher, librarian; thoughtful and creative contributor in
 SERLIN-Hilde. Beloved mother of Patricia and Nancy, grandmother of Adam and Gideon, sister of Erich, and mother-in-law of Richard, died peacefully on September 23, 2001. Her memory will forever be cherished. Service at Ferncliff Cemetery, Hartsdale, NY, at 10AM on Tuesday, September 25th.  
 WEISS-Margaret A. ''Maggie'' (nee Adams). 93, formerly of New York City, died on Sunday, September 23, 2001, in Fairfield, CT, at The Jewish Home for the Elderly after bravely battling a severe long term illness. Beloved wife of the late George Weiss (former Chairman of Bache & Co., Inc.). 
 COHEN-Dorothy ''Dolly'' Suser, 90 years old, died peacefully in her home in New York City on Sunday, September 23, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Cohen. Adored mother of Morey, Larry, Kenneth and Susan. Devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Loving sister of Sally Harvey of Jerus
 HANNA-Valerie J., 57. Senior Vice President for Technology for Marsh & McLennan, died at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. She is survived by her husband of 29 years Glenn Hughes of Freeville, New York, daughters Lydia Robertson and Denene Ray, foster son Victor Arencibia, mothe
 LIVINGSTON-Helen Bayer. On September 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Norman, loving mother of Tammy and Jerry Weintraub, Louis B. and Mari Livingston, and Toni Bayer. Adored grandmother of Melissa Weintraub Kohl, Amanda Weintraub Ratliff, and Diana, Alex and Annie Livingston. Dear great-
 McGARRY - NOACK - Katherine ''Katie''. Of Hoboken, N.J. (formerly of North Merrick, N.Y.). Tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center in her 31st year. Katie attended Sacred Heart School in North Merrick, graduated from Sacred Heart Academy, Hempstead in 1988. She attended S
 O'DOHERTY-Marni Pont, 31. Of Armonk, NY. Missing at the World Trade Center on September 11th, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph O'Doherty, adored daughter of Edward and Alice Pont, much loved younger sister to Stefanie and Steven, and doting aunt to Michael. A Senior Vice President in Research w
 SOSEWITZ-Shelley. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are deeply saddened by the loss of their dear friend Shelley Sosewitz of Chicago, beloved wife for 48 years of past president, chairman of the board and giant in our organization Ben Z. Sosewitz. A Zionis
 WEISS-Margaret A. ''Maggie'' (nee Adams). 93, formerly of New York City, died on Sunday, September 23, 2001, in Fairfield, CT, at The Jewish Home for the Elderly after bravely battling a severe long term illness. Beloved wife of the late George Weiss (former Chairman of Bache & Co., Inc.). 
 YOSWEIN-Dorothy. Much beloved companion of Martin Fields. Mother of Kathy and Rebecca. Grandmother of Sean and Kelly. Died on September 22, 2001. Her affectionate wit, compassionate devotion to social justice, love for and devotion to her friends, will be sorely missed. Services today at 11
 Sallie M. Wheeler, an Anheuser-Busch heiress who led a successful campaign to return the nation's oldest and most prestigious horse show to Manhattan, died on Friday at her home in Keswick, Va. She was 70. Mrs. Wheeler, a lifelong equestrian, led efforts to return the National Horse
 Germaine Bre, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said. Ms. Bre was 93 and had b
 Germaine Bre, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said. Ms. Bre was 93 and had b
 CHUDNOW-Betty. The Congregation of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst, records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We express our sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President CHUDNOW-Betty. The Board of Governors and the members of The Se
 CULLINAN-Joan McConnell (nee Joudzevich). Loving wife, stepmother, daughter, sister, aunt, friend. Assistant to the President, Cantor Fitzgerald. Victim of the terrorist attack at the World Trade Center. Joan was born in Brooklyn on August 12, 1954, and was a graduate of St. Vincent Ferrer 
 HAUSER-Carmen Angleton. Died August 9, in Rome, Italy. Born in Boise, Idaho, 1921, attended Bryn Mawr College. In 1939 she edited the 5th edition of the poetry magazine, ''Furioso'', along with her brother, James J. Angleton and E. Reed Whittemore, Married Ernest Hauser 1947. Lived in Rome 
 HOENIG-Helene. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her daughter, Doris Greenberg, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. S
 LEVY-Lee Keroes Levine. Of Hallandale, FL. On Tuesday, September 21, 2001. She is survived by her loving family, husband David, two children, Lois (Michel) Karyo and Bob (Norma) Levine, four grandchildren and six great grandchildren.       
 MAY-Kate. Died peacefully in her 100th year in Montclair, NJ on September 24. Born in Germany in 1902, she emigrated to the US in 1926 and settled in New York City. Beloved widow of Joseph, devoted mother of Jack, grandmother of Sandra and Paul, great grandmother of Anastasya and Alex. Serv
 McGARRY - NOACK - Katherine ''Katie''. Of Hoboken, N.J. (formerly of North Merrick, N.Y.). Tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center in her 30th year. Katie attended Sacred Heart School in North Merrick, graduated from Sacred Heart Academy, Hempstead in 1988. She attended S
 ORMISTON - KENWORTHY - Virgi nia (Ginger). Victim of the September 11, 2001 tragic attack on the World Trade Center. Wife of Jim Kenworthy and mother of Beth and Bill. Survived by her mother, Jeanette, and sisters, Nancy and Sarah. A memorial service will be held at 1:00 PM Saturday, Septem
 STRALEY-Helen Baker. Died peacefully on September 23, 2001 at home in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Charles V. Straley. Loving mother of Harriet Clowes and the late James F. Also survived by her daughter-in-law Janet Straley. Cherished grandmother of eight and great grandmother o
 BOOSIN-Gertrude. The Congregation of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst, records with profound sorrow the passing of its past Sisterhood President. We express our sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Barbara Lazarowitz, President Sisterhood       
 CHUDNOW-Betty. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Betty Chudnow. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Mark, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary 
 DIAMOND-Renee Judith, passed away September 24, 2001, of natural causes. Cherished daughter of the late Irving and Doris Diamond, loving sister of Barbara L. Diamond and Robert. She was an inspiration to all who knew her, with great spirit, determination, fortitude and conviction. She will 
 LANDAU-Roberta, 97, of East 68th St., New York City. Beloved mother and grandmother. Survived by grandson and two greatgrandchildren. Services and celebration of her life will be held Friday, 1PM at ''The Riverside,'' Amsterdam Ave. and 76th St.       
 MANN-Betty, of Little Neck, NY and of Boca Raton, FL, died on September 18, 2001; born May 3, 1920. Beloved wife of Ira, devoted mother of Stevie, Ricky and Freddie, loving mother-in-law of Susan and Susan, cherished grandmother of Eric, Lauren, Jordan, Lindsay and Stacy. Caring daughter, s
 STACK-Christina. Died September 25, 2001 at her home in Woodstock, NY. Beloved sister of Tara and Lee; accomplished and beautiful artist. Memorial service in Woodstock at Christina's home, 2PM Friday, October 5, 2001.       
 WIGHT-Elma Needles. Of Maplewood, NJ formerly of Skidaway Island, GA and Madison, NJ on September 24, 2001. Wife of 61 years to John Welles Wight. Mother of Susan Wight Poinier of Duxbury, MA; John Welles Wight, Jr. of Madison, NJ and William Needles Wight of Short Hills, NJ. Sister of Marg
 ANDERSEN-Mary Cecelia (nee Hammond). Age 92. Devoted wife of the late Frank. Dearly loved mother of the late Barbara Donato, Audrey Weigand, Doris Barrett. Grandmother of the late Matthew Weigand. Survived by sons Frank, Robert, Jeff and daughter Mary, son-in-law John Weigand, 15 grandchild
 HOENIG-Helene Schiller Baskind passed away September 25, 2001. Our beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother. An indomitable spirit, her greatest delight was to live her life for her deceased husband's children, grandchildren and friends. She was a wellspring of grace, strength, caring
 KAISER-Barbara L. 84, died September 26, 2001, in New York City. She attended Wellesley College where she was Phi Beta Kappa her junior year; and Columbia University Law School, where she was Harlan Fisk Stone Scholar and on the Law Review. Married to Dr. Irwin Kaiser in 1938, during the wa
 MATTHEWS-Catherine E. On September 21, 2001. She worked at the UN as a secretary for UNICEF. Beloved wife of the late Paul C. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20th St), NYC, Monday, 8:30 AM to 10:30 AM. Funeral Mass 11:00 AM, at Epiphany R.C. Church. Interment S
 O'NEAL-Edward. Deepest condolences are extended to Dianne S. O'Neal, trustee of the Olana Partnership and past President of the Columbia Land Conservancy, for the loss of her husband, Ed. Your family is in our thoughts at this difficult time.       
 ORMISTON-Ginger. Died tragically on September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. We mourn the death of our very special friend, Ginger. She made us feel like a part of her family with her love, her great sense of humor, and her easy acceptance of others. Ginger made our daughter, Maia, fee
 PAYER-Lynn. The Alumni and Faculty of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism pay tribute to Lynn Payer, Class of 1969, for her journalistic contributions to understanding healthcare and medicine in our society. We will miss her quiet, dedicated, involvement in our lives. Lynn
 ROWAN-Yetta. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Yetta Rowan. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 SCHOENBERG-Eleanor A. Suddenly on September 25, 2001. Beloved wife of Saul. Devoted daughter of Anna Melenkivitz. Dear sister of Edward and Joseph Melenkivitz. Cherished aunt to Adam, Rory, Amy and Laura. Sister-in-law to Judith Bindler and aunt to Robert Bindler. Loving friend and colleagu
 STACK-Christina. Died September 25, 2001 at her home in Woodstock, NY. Beloved sister of Tara and Lee; accomplished and beautiful artist. Memorial service in Woodstock at Christina's home, 2PM Friday, October 5, 2001.       
 STARKMAN-Celia D. In her 98th year, loving wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Sue and Wyn Robins, James and Eve Starkman, grandmother of Frannie and Jackie, Hannah and Billy, Amy and Wendy, and seven great-grandchildren, sister of Edward Levy, Miriam Horowitz and the late Sally, Mor
 WEINBERG-Florence. Age 93, passed away on Yom Kippur. Beloved mother of Michael and Harold. Devoted wife of the late Ewald Weinberg. Cherished motherin-law of Lois and Ann. Dear grandmother of Carin and Jeff, Jonathan, Elisabeth, Caroline and Peter. Great-grandmother of Samuel. Loving siste
 ZUCKER-Ilene. The Board of Directors and staff of the Empire State Pride Agenda, New York's state wide lesbian and gay rights organization mourn the loss of Ilene Zucker, a loyal ally and friend in the fight for equality. We extend our sympathies to her family and friends at the New York Co
 BERNSTEIN-Mary. I mourn the death of my darling litlle mother, gone two weeks today. Zestful and charming in her prime, spunky and funny even in her illness, her loss is irreparable. My Mother, my best friend. Barbar       
 ROSENBERG - Lenore Nathan Block. Of Buffalo NY, died peacefully September 27, 2001, in her ninetieth year. She is deeply mourned by her son, the writer Lawrence Block of New York City; her stepsons, Richard Rosenberg of Laguna Beach and Arthur Rosenberg of Albuquerque; her daughters-in-law,
 STACK-Christina. Died September 25, 2001 at her home in Woodstock, NY. Beloved sister of Tara and Lee; accomplished and beautiful artist. Memorial service in Woodstock at Christina's home, 2PM Friday, October 5, 2001.       
 STARKMAN-Celia D. In her 98th year, loving wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Sue and Win Robins, James and Eve Starkman, grandmother of Frannie and Jackie, Hannah and Billy, Amy and Wendy, and seven greatgrandchildren, sister of Edward Levy, Miriam Horowitz and the late Sally, Morr
 STERN-Anne W., on September 28. Devoted wife of the late Dave. Loving mother of Elinor Parsont and Stanley. Cherished Nana of Diane, David, Michael, Judi and Joanne. Adored Great-Nana of Rachelle, Jeffrey, Nicholas, Benjamin, Anneke and Lilian. Her family was her life. Service Sunday 12 Noo
 ARONOWITZ-Lydia. 80, passed away on September 29, 2001. Who brought joy to so many lives, both young and old. Those who knew her for merely hours or a lifetime were always drawn to her love of life, warmth, spirit and sense of humor. She had friends all over the world. Her kindness, generos
 BRAUMAN-Kathleen. In her 98th year, died peacefully at The Hebrew Home for the Aged. Devoted social worker, dear friend to many, she will be fondly remembered by all who knew her. Requiescat in Pace. Graveside service Sunday September 30 at 1 pm, Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 BURACK-Zahava. On September 28. A valiant lady. We shall cherish her friendship forever. Elaine and Charles Weitzman BURACK-Zahava. A precious friend who had a flair, kindness of heart and deep love of humanity. Estelle Cohen       
 FISHBURN-Geraldine Kay. Died Tuesday, September 25, 2001, in Oxford, OH. She was 88. Ms. Fishburn was born July 29, 1913, in NYC to Joseph and Tillye Koerpel. Her career as a professional actress began at the age of 12, when using the stage name Geraldine Kay. She appeared in a Broadway pro
 FRIED-Arlene. 49 of Roslyn, NY. Suddenly, tragically on September 11, 2001, in the WTC. VP and Assistant General Counsel of Cantor Fitzgerald and eSpeed. Beloved wife of Kenny. Devoted mother of Dayna, Allison and Emily. Loving daughter of Ronni and Nicholas Joseph. Treasured sister of Elli
 GOLDSTEIN-Michelle Herman. ''Fragrant Memory.'' How quickly flowers bloom and die before they get their chance to wollow in the sun and wind and glitter in their dance. Their fragrance shared for time so short though lingering in our minds. Their beauty creating memories of so many a vibran
 GREEN-Judith (Judy). Died at home in New York City on Friday, September 14, after a ten month battle with pancreatic cancer. The beloved mother of Christina Green Gerry and Nicholas William Green. Judy was born and raised in New York City and graduated from Vassar College. Along with her hu
 GRIEB-Yoland J., 45-year resident of Northport, on September 28, 2001, in her 87th year. Longtime member of Catholic Daughters and The Rosary Society. Enjoyed gardening, bowling and traveling. She visited all 50 states. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of Marie Edison, Caroli
 JACOBSON-Madeleine (Madge), G. Of Chevy Chase, MD, formerly of Larchmont, died on August 21, 2001 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, MD at the age of 97. Mrs. Jacobson was born in Philadelphia on May 29, 1904 to Milton and Sophie Goldsmith. She grew up in New York City and graduated from Tea
 NAYLOR-Maria Henrietta Keith, 65, died at her home in Manhattan, Saturday, September 15, 2001. Burial will be at 10AM, Monday, October 1 at Greenwood Cemetery in Fort Worth, Texas.       
 SESINOVA-Alena. September 11, 2001, World Trade Center, Tower One, 96th floor. Irreplaceable, beloved friend, who having escaped Communist Czechoslovakia, fulfilled her dream of coming to America. A passionate intellect, she loved life & had a heart of gold. Among all of her endearing quali
 SMITH-Marsha. 88, on September 28, 2001. Loving mother of Judy Smith, brother of William Rosman, grandmother of Matthew SmithBurlage, wife of the late Alex Smith, friend to many. She and her stories will be in our hearts forever. Services at Sigmund Schwartz Funeral Home, 182 2nd Avenue, at
 STARKMAN-Celia D. In her 98th year, loving wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Sue and Win Robins, James and Eve Starkman, grandmother of Frannie and Jackie, Hannah and Billy, Amy and Wendy, and seven greatgrandchildren, sister of Edward Levy, Miriam Horowitz and the late Sally, Morr
 WADE-Margaret S. (nee Sangster), formerly of Port Washington, NY, died peacefully at Walker Elder Suites in Edina, MN on Sept. 24, 2001 at the age of 83. ''Sweet'' to her family and ''Maggie'' to her friends. She was the loving mother of Theodosia ''Teddy'' Sedgwick & husband Thomas of Bloo
 WEINBERG-Florence. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Rose Hirsch, upon the loss of her sister. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 WEISS-Margaret A. ''Maggie'' (nee Adams). 93, formerly of New York City, died on Sunday, September 23, 2001, in Fairfield, CT, at The Jewish Home for the Elderly after bravely battling a severe long term illness. Beloved wife of the late George Weiss (former Chairman of Bache & Co., Inc.). 
