 Gisele Freund, the German-born photographer who was best known for her portraits of France's literary elite and was a founding member of Magnum Photo Agency, died today in Paris. She was 91. Ms. Freund was one of Europe's most prominent photographers and a pillar among French femini
 Frances Gray Patton, a writer whose short stories appeared in The New Yorker through four decades and whose works included the popular 1954 novel ''Good Morning, Miss Dove,'' died Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. She was 94 and lived in Durham. Ms. Potter's 
 BECK-Ethel (nee Liberman), 96, of Miami Beach. Passed away March 30, 2000 at her residence. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of George (Kara) Beck. Darling grandmother of Sharon (Neil) Kochen and Joel (Jody) Beck. Great-grandmother of six adoring great-grandchildren. A specia
 DONOGHUE-Nora Ann. On April 1, 2000, in her 34th year. Formerly of Anbally, Cummer, Tuam County Galway, Ireland. Beloved wife of Michael and dear mother of Michael Martin Donoghue. Adored daughter of Martin and Peggy Furey. Cherished sister of Mary, Margaret, Helen, Micheal, Theresa, Martin
 HORELICK-Alice (nee Blei). On March 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Reuben. Loving mother of Peter Thorner. Cherished grandmother of Brian & Sarah Thorner. Dear sister of Ira Blei and the late Elaine Weiner and Alvin Blei. Memorial service Friday, April 14, 2:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 
 KAUFMAN - Margo. Beloved daughter of Gloria Asnes and Alan Pearlstein. Step-daughter of Paul Asnes and Rose Pearlstein. Devoted sister to Laurie Goldberg and Robert Pearlstein. Adored wife of Eric Mankin. Loving mother of Nicky Ross. Her courageous spirit will always live in our hearts.    
 KOLBEN-Sonja. On March 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Felix. Loving mother of Alex and Nancy and Irene and Michel. Adoring grandmother of Kevin, Deborah, Nathalie and Jonathan. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MORRELL-Joan Vaughan, on March 7, 2000. Wife of James F. Morrell, M.D. of Blue Bell, PA. She was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Erasmus Hall and the College of New Rochelle. Long time resident of Garden City. Survived by son James G., of Garden City, daughters Margot of New York City, Ali
 SPILKY-Pauline. Beloved wife of the late Isadore Spilky. Devoted mother of Gerald Spilky. Cherished Nanny of Lisa and Tony Randazzo and Erica Spilky and great grandma of Samantha-Jo. She was a world traveller and real estate investor and will be very deeply missed. Graveside services Sunday
 Jean E. Karl, who established the publishing imprint Atheneum Books for Young Readers in 1961 and led it until she retired in 1985, died on Thursday at a hospice in Lancaster, Pa. She was 72. Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including non
 COWEN-Eleanor B. Harmon. Daughter of Ester Stephens Harmon and William P. Harmon, was born on February 3, 1905 in Waverly, Iowa. After graduating from Nursing College she moved to New York where she worked at Mount Sinai Hospital and instructed at Yonkers Maternity and Homeopathic Hospital,
 KAUFMAN - Margo. Beloved daughter of Gloria Asnes and Alan Pearlstein. Step-daughter of Paul Asnes and Rose Pearlstein. Devoted sister to Laurie Goldberg and Robert Pearlstein. Adored wife of Eric Mankin. Loving mother of Nicky Ross. Her courageous spirit will always live in our hearts.    
 RICE-Peggy T. 77, retired docent at the National Gallery of Art and the National Museum of American Art in Washington, D.C., died April 2, 2000, at Mary Washington Hospital in Fredericksburg, Virginia, following complications from surgery. Mrs. Rice was born in New York City, graduated from
 WEISMAN-May. Of Forest Hills, passed away March 30, 2000. Past president of Garment Center Congregation Sisterhood. Shiva will be held at her sister's residence, 70-20 108th St, Apartment 11P, Forest Hills, NY. Services were held on Sunday, April 2, 2000.       
 Evelyn Swarthout Hayes, a former concert pianist, educator and arts patron, died on March 24 at George Washington University Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Washington. Mrs. Hayes, who was born Evelyn Swarthout in Jacksonville, Ill., began her music career in the 1930's, appearing
 Helen Martin, a character actress whose career embraced the Broadway stage as well as films and television, died on March 25 at her home in Monterey, Calif. She was 90. A founding member of the American Negro Theater in Harlem, Ms. Martin was among the first African-American actress
 Margo Kaufman, a humorist, writer and radio commentator with a keen instinct for the comedic possibilities in the mundane, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Eric Mankin, said. In her writings for such publication
 BOGOFF-Irene. On April 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Ansi Boudin and Zona and Edward Kaufman. Devoted grandmother of Bradley and Beth, James, Bruce and Zarrina, Jeffrey and Vicki and Marla. Loving great-grandmother of Alyssa, Jordan and Emma. A special woman who
 FEINSTEIN-Lillian. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Lillian Feinstein, mother of Seema Liston, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National
 HILL-Jonathan. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of the son of our beloved friend and esteemed leader, Rabbi David Hill. We pray that the family will be comforted among the mourners of of Zion and Jerusalem.. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malco
 NEWMAN-Alice. SAR Academy mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our Trustee and friends, Sidney and Shelley Newman, adoring grandmother of Steven ('90) and Martine, Denise ('93) and Michelle ('97). May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, Pres.
 SABETTA-Victoria, Devoted wife of the late John A. Sabetta. Beloved mother of Lorelei Jackson and John Sabetta. Cherished grandmother of Kate And Chris Jackson and Giancarlo Sabetta. Died April 3, 2000 in West Reading PA. Born in 1918 in W. VA. She lived for more than 50 years in Bensonhurs
 Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a biochemist and educator who teamed with her husband at Columbia University to advance the knowledge of how the body's red blood cells function, died on March 25 at her home in the Bronx. She was 75. The cause was vascular disease, her family said. S
 ABRAMOWICZ-Dina. (1909-2000). The Board and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the passing of our distinguished Research Librarian and friend, Dina Abramowicz on April 3. Devoted to Jewish research history and scholarship, she embodied the values and brilliance of Vilna (
 BAUMEL-Claire, 71, of Delray Beach, FL, on April 1. The members of Women's American ORT are deeply grieved over the death of Claire Baumel, an Honorary Vice President who was the embodiment of public service for more than 40 years. Passionate and vibrant, an inspiring personality and speake
 CALLAHAN-Sheila MacGill. Writers House notes with great sadness the passing of our friend and former colleague. She was also a client, author of children's books including ''And Still'', ''The Turtle Watched'', ''The Children Of Lir'', and ''The Last Snake In Ireland''. And for adults, the 
 KITZINGER - Margaret Susan. Died after a short illness in Poughkeepsie, NY on March 22, 2000. She is survived by her loving family, Ernst, Tony and Liz, Rachel and Eamon, Adrian and Elizabeth, Beatrice, Chloe, and Kira. Contributions in her memory may be sent to the American Friends Service
 LANGFAN-Marion. West Side Kollel mourns the passing of Mrs. Marion Langfan, wife of Bill and mother of Robin, Mark & Dayna. May her life of good deeds be her legacy and source of inspiration to her loving family. They should be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Don B
 MOORE-Stratford. The Board of Directors of the Catholic Big Sisters extends our prayful condolences to our longtime Board member, Dolorita Moore, on the death of her son, Stratford Moore. Our thoughts and prayers are with you and your family. Margaret C. Sheridan, Pres.       
 MULTER-Edith died unexpectedly at the age of 88 in Miami Beach, FL on Monday April 3, 2000. Admired by all who knew her for her joie de vivre, independence and youthful intellect. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Cherished mother of Carole and David Watnick, and Ira and Karen Multer. Adori
 SAUNDERS-Rita. Of Fort Lee, NJ. Mother of Howard (H.J.) and Len, grandson Evan, sister Sandy. She was an educational professional, teacher, business woman and avid tennis player. Graveside services Wednesday, 12:30 PM, in Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. For further information call 201944
 WACHTEL-Leonora G. (Lucy) We deeply mourn the passing of our mother, Lucy Wachtel. Her love and dedication to her family, friends, and the causes she championed will always be a source of enormous inspiration. She loved and was deeply loved by her grandchildren, Carly, Nicholas, Jesse, Jona
 WINTHROP-Edith. Died 4/3/00. The staff of the Edith Winthrop Teacher Center of Westchester, along with the teachers and administrators of our consortium schools, are deeply saddened by the passing of Edith Winthrop, the former Director of the Teacher Center. For over 30 years Edith dedicate
 ABELOVE-Pamela. Of Las Vegas, Nevada, but always a New Yorker at heart, died on March 31, 2000 at age 52. Beloved mother of Jason, wife of Harold Goldman, and daughter of Don Schultz. Leaves behind scores of treasured friends who love her.       
 ABRAMOWICZ-Dina. The National Yiddish Book Center mourns the passing of Dina Abramowicz. She knew more about Yiddish books and culture than any person alive, and graciously shared her knowledge with three generations of scholars. May her memory be a blessing for us all. Aaron Lansky, Presid
 ARNHEIMER-Patricia P. On April 4, 2000. Beloved wife of Howard. Cherished daughter of Ben and Sylvia Pace. Loving sister of Jovanna and sister-in-law of William Hopkins. Also survived by her niece Holly Hopkins and nephew Bill Hopkins. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Norther
 BAIR-Elizabeth Morris. March 27, after a long illness. Born July 3, 1911 in Kuling, China. Beloved widow of George Marjoribanks and John C. Bair. She leaves a brother, DuBois Morris of Weston, CT. and a sister Eleanor Morrison of Edinburgh, Scotland. She was also a sister of the late John M
 BRAUNSTEIN-Esther (nee Grodsky). Age 101. Born October 19, 1898 in Slonim. Arrived in New York City, Fall, 1906, died April 5, 2000, in New York City. A woman of three centuries, beloved wife of the late Irving, devoted mother of Victor (Francine). A dear friend to many. A retired teacher f
 BYNE-Frances (nee Cohen). On April 4, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Devoted mother of Robert (Marti) Byne and Judith (Norm) Maxwell. Cherished grandmother of Helen, David and Joel. Loving sister of Gerti Dalinka, Maley Cohen and the late Anna Thorne, Jack, Samuel and Louis Cohen. Fan
 EISENBERG-Winona. On April 4, 2000 in Devon, PA at the age of 93. She is survived by her son Robert, his wife Helene, and their children, Nina, Daniel, Sarah and Louis; Rosa, the widow of her other son Peter, and their children Jose and Zena and their spouses Viviane and Joao.       
 ELKIN-Lillian G., died on April 3rd, 2000. Beloved by her sons, Peter and Mark, her grandchildren, Noah, Sam and Kate, her family, friends, co-workers and the community she served for 30 years.       
 EMORY-Katherine Riegel, aged 88, resident of Southport, CT, and Brooklin, ME, and formerly of New York City on April 5. Beloved wife of the late German H.H. Emory. Survived by three daughters, Katherine E. Stookey, Leila E. Baldwin, and Lucy E. Ambach, and a son, Benjamin R. Emory. Grandmot
 GLASSER-Julia B. Cherished wife of the late Israel, beloved mother of Susan and Marc, loving grandmother of Noah, Coren and Ethan. Caring mother-in-law of Steven and Donna. Devoted sister of Ann. She was first a teacher to all who knew her. We learned from her directly and by example. She t
 HERMAN-Belle Lewis. Dear wife of the late Irving; peacefully at age 91. Lifelong activist for labor rights, equality and peace. Admired and beloved by four generations on four continents, and a true inspiration to all who knew her. Memorial service to be announced.       
 JOSEPH-Betty. The Board of Directors and staff of Grand Street Settlement are saddened by the passing of Mrs. Betty Joseph, a dedicated Board member since 1938. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Ann Unterberg, President Margarita Rosa, Exec. Director       
 LEVACK-Margaret. April 4, 2000. Beloved wife of Joseph, adored mother of Joy and mother-in-law of Patrick Molloy, loving grandmother of Lynne and Tracey. Donations in her memory to Girl Scout Council of Greater NY, 43 W. 23 St, NYC 10010. Attn: P. Pierrot.       
 WINTHROP-Edith. Died 4/3/00. The staff of the Edith Winthrop Teacher Center of Westchester, along with the teachers and administrators of our consortium schools, are deeply saddened by the passing of Edith Winthrop, the former Director of the Teacher Center. For over 30 years Edith dedicate
 BLOOMINGDALE-Eileen Crutchlow, Ph.D., 83, of Cape Coral. Died April 5 peacefully of natural causes. Dr. Bloomingdale was born in Montreal, P.Q. to Marguerite Laviolette, wife of a wellknown physician, Charles Crutchlow, MD. Her older brother, Everett Crutchlow, MD and sister, Winifred Crutc
 COLE-Mildred (nee Vathauer). Of Manhattan. Passed away April 4, 2000. A life-long resident, she was preceded in death by her husband Allen Cole. She is survived by many nieces, nephews and dear friends. She was a former volunteer at New York Hospital and other charitable causes. Funeral ser
 EMORY-Katherine Riegel, aged 88, resident of Southport, CT, and Brooklin, ME, and formerly of New York City on April 5. Beloved wife of the late German H.H. Emory. Survived by three daughters, Katherine E. Stookey, Leila E. Baldwin, and Lucy E. Ambach, and a son, Benjamin R. Emory. Grandmot
 GRANDISON-Nichelle Mikeda, 26, on April 3, following a short illness. Beloved daughter of Louis and Maxine (nee Henry) Grandison of Mt. Vernon, NY. Loving mother of Devin Nicholas, beloved sister of Louis and Rebecca. Mourned by her grandfather Reginald Henry, her aunts and uncles Reginald 
 KLEIN-Nora. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Nora Klein, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her daughter, Helaine Ronen, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 LESTER-UN-Esther. We deeply mourn the sudden passing of our devoted wife, mother and grandmother, on April 4, 2000. She will be remembered for her grace, charm, generosity & loving spirit. Her artistic nature lives on in her children, Todd and Dana, and her grandchildren, Simone, Mimi, Marl
 LEVY-Joyce Norma, 82, beloved wife of Jack, brother of Richard and Jules Wurzel, devoted mother of Michael, Donna, Robert and Ken, passed away Wednesday, April 5th. Joyce was also proud of her eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She is also survived by loving daughters-inlaw, 
 NAGLER-Anne. 92 indomitable years of teaching, mothering, grandmothering; Manhattan enthusiast and buoyant companion. Her life continues to be celebrated by daughter Elly, son-in-law Mike, grandsons Matt & Dan & the many she touched. Memorial service 30 April 2PM at Council Senior Ctr, 241 
 SHERMAN - LOWENSTEIN - Har riette K. Of West Palm Beach, on April 4th, 2000. Beloved widow of Harold Sherman and Solomon Lowenstein, loving mother of Dr. Peter Sherman and Kenneth Sherman, caring mother-in-law of Diane and Meryl Sherman, cherished grandmother of Darren, Justin, Samantha & M
 STERN-Ruth. On April 3, 2000 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Walter, loving mother of Michelle and her husband Andrew and devoted sister of Zsuzsa Dank. A long-time resident of Englewood, NJ and Ocean Beach, Fire Island. She survived Auschwitz, Bergen Belsen etc. together with her si
 WEITZMAN-Yaffa nee Miller. On April 5, 2000. Beloved wife of Jerrold. Loving mother of C. Jeremy. Dear sister of Leo Miller. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. As wife, mother, friend, psychoanalyst, teacher, arts aficionado, Yaffa gave her all and savored life
 WHITE-Wynne Holden (Nourse) 71, Sculptor. Died April 5, 2000 at home. Recently honored with a showing of her work at the Spring Bull Gallery of Newport, RI. Wynne White passed away peacefully at home with her family Wednesday after a short illness. She was born April 3, 1929 in Cleveland, O
 CAVANAUGH-Mary C. of Commack, NY (Formerly of Elmhurst, NY and Dominican Village, Amityville, NY) on April 6, 2000, at the age of 97. Beloved aunt of Josephine Burns, Catherine Duffy, Agnes Andreassen, June Muriwinski, Barbara (Walter) Levene and Jacqueline Stanley. Also survived by her man
 COLE-Mildred (nee Vathauer). Of Manhattan. Passed away April 4, 2000. A life-long resident, she was preceded in death by her husband Allen Cole. She is survived by many nieces, nephews and dear friends. She was a former volunteer at New York Hospital and other charitable causes. Funeral ser
 EMORY-Katherine Riegel, aged 88, resident of Southport, CT, and Brooklin, ME, and formerly of New York City on April 5. Beloved wife of the late German H.H. Emory. Survived by three daughters, Katherine E. Stookey, Leila E. Baldwin, and Lucy E. Ambach, and a son, Benjamin R. Emory. Grandmot
 FRIESER-Sadie. Age 84. Devoted wife of Martin. Beloved mother of Paul, Barbara, Francine & David. Sister of Shirley and Irving. Adored grandmother and great grandmother of Neil, Barry, Michael, Scott, Jennifer, Daniel, Maia, Gabrielle, Grant, Joshua and Ross. She was co-founder of Beekman L
 HIRSCHHORN-Gertrude Reitman, 88, peacefully in her sleep, on April 6, 2000 in Oakland, CA. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Eric Hirschhorn and Leah Wortham, Victoria and Kenneth Bochat, and Jessica Hirschhorn and Henry Howard. Adoring grandmother of Alexander, Samuel, Elizabeth, Anne, Jo
 ROMERIL-Winifred Gosman DeBevoise, 102, of Bellerose Village, N.Y. died on April 5, 2000 at her residence. Wife of the late Albert John Romeril, who died in 1989. She is survived by her two sons, Albert John Jr., of Cutchogue, N.Y. and Robert DeBevoise of Bethlehem, PA., three daughters-in-
 WACHTEL-Lucy. The Diller-Quaile School of Music notes with saddness the death of former faculty member Lucy Wachtel. Lucy taught piano for many years and was also a founder and fundraiser for an expanded Outreach Program, which offers private and class instruction to children from Daycare C
 WASSERMAN - Frances (nee Stavenhagen). Died on April 6 after 94 years of giving joy to all who knew her. The beloved wife of the late Saul J. Wasserman, mother of Ernest and the late Regina. She will be sorely missed. Services Sunday 10:00 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapels, Flatbush Avenue an
 Dina Abramowicz, the longtime librarian at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research whose firsthand and encyclopedic knowledge of the lost Yiddish world of Eastern Europe made her a treasured resource for hundreds of scholars and writers for more than half a century, died on Monday at Beth Is
 COLE-Mildred (nee Vathauer). Of Manhattan. Passed away April 4, 2000. A life-long resident, she was preceded in death by her husband Allen Cole. She is survived by many nieces, nephews and dear friends. She was a former volunteer at New York Hospital and other charitable causes. Funeral ser
 DUBINSKY-Sarah (Sally). Of Boynton Beach, FL, on April 6, 2000. In loving memory you will always be in our hearts. Survived by children Alan Dubinsky of Brooklyn, NY and Karen Long of Fairfax, VA. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Alzheimer's Association or Fight for Sight.       
 GELMAN-Gloria Gould. Born March 29th, 1922 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; reunited with her beloved husband, Milton S. Gelman on March 27, 2000. Gloria; wife, mother, sister and actress, was an exceptional woman whose strength, compassion and love will be with us forever. Her life may have dimmed
 HECHT-Isabel M. On April 7, 2000. Beloved wife of Judge Burton G. Hecht. Loving mother of Mindy and Howard, Audrey and Jeffrey and Allen and Amy. Adoring grandmother of Diana, Daniel, Sara and Allison. She will be profoundly missed and will always be in our hearts. Visiting Saturday, 7-9 PM
 HIRSCHHORN-Gertrude Reitman, 88, peacefully in her sleep, on April 6, 2000 in Oakland, CA. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Eric Hirschhorn and Leah Wortham, Victoria and Kenneth Bochat, and Jessica Hirschhorn and Henry Howard. Adoring grandmother of Alexander, Samuel, Elizabeth, Anne, Jo
 HYMAN-Arlene (nee Finley). Of Haworth, NJ, on April 8. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Dana Trokel, David Trokel, Laura Liberty and Debra Minkowitz. Dear sister of Larry Finley and loving grandmother of six. Services at ''Wien & Wien,'' 129 Engle St., Englewood, NJ on Mon
 ISERMAN-Marian V. On April 1, 2000 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Michael Iserman; devoted mother of Susan and Edwin Sunshine; adoring grandmother of Jody Kessler and dearest greatgrandmother of Jasmine. Private services were held. ISERMAN-Marian V. Congregation Emanu-El of
 RHODES-Margaret Duryee. Wife of the late A. Whitney Rhodes. Died peacefully at home in her 96th year on April 4, 2000. A lifelong resident of Englewood, N.J., she was the loving mother of Barbara R. Zinke of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. and Douglas B. Rhodes of Providence, R.I., and beloved grand
 SZILAGYI-Sophie, of Fairfield, CT, on April 6, 2000. Born in Germany, daughter of the late Louis and Jettchen (Strauss) Stern, and predeceased by her husband, Frank Szilagyi, she is survived by her son, Dr. Ralph Szilagyi of Westport, CT. Services were held on Friday at Mt. Moriah Cemetery 
 WAJNTAL-Suzanne (nee Chasin), died March 24, 2000, in France, where she had resided for forty years. Beloved wife of Leon; cherished mother of Sophie Giami; sister of Barbara Scotch and Arthur Chasin, and adored grandmother. Her sunny disposition and valiant struggle against enormous odds w
 WASSERMAN - Frances (nee Stavenhagen). Died on April 6 after 94 years of giving joy to all who knew her. The beloved wife of the late Saul J. Wasserman, mother of Ernest and the late Regina. She will be sorely missed. Services Sunday 10:00 AM at Parkside Memorial Chapels, Flatbush Avenue an
 Claire Trevor, an Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists -- reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops -- died Saturday at a hospital near her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 91 and had suffered from respiratory ailments in recent 
 Helen Ratnoff Plotz, who earned praise for compiling and editing almost a score of anthologies of poetry, mostly for young adults, died March 30 at her home in Brooklyn. She was 87. In a review of the anthology ''The Gift Outright: America and Her Poets'' (1977), Deborah Churchman w
 AVNER-Sylvia. The Malverne Jewish Center mourns the passing of our friend and longtime Board of Trustee member, Sylvia Avner. Condolences to her children and grandchildren. Moshe Berger, Rabbi Cecile F. Vinik, President       
 BLACK-Bessie Graham Hobson. (Known to her wide circle of friends as ''Graham''), lost her six year battle with melanoma and quietly slipped away on April 7, 2000. She was 77 years old. Her family surrounded her at her home at 12305 S.W. 73rd Avenue, in Miami, as her life ended. She was a la
 DORIN-Alma. On April 7. Beloved wife of the late Irving Dorin. Dear mother of Ruthann. Cherished aunt of Carole, Eleanor, Amy, Jeanne, Carrie, Eve, Marc, David, Natanya, Elizabeth and Juliann. Devoted sister-in-law to Al Dorin and Renee Schiffrin. Friend to many. We will miss her terribly. 
 HALBERG-Hannah C. On April 9, 2000. Devoted wife of Herbert. Loving mother of David, Brian and Kenneth. Adored daughter of Estelle. Dear sister of Sandra Weinstein. Funeral service will be held at Temple Emanu-El, 1 E. 65th St, Tuesday, 12:30 PM. Interment to follow Mt. Carmel Cemetery. Con
 ITKIN-Sylvia. Of Palm Beach, FL, and Hillsdale, NY, on April 8, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Ben Itkin. Cherished mother of Susan Sarlin and Lewis Itkin. Devoted motherin-law to Bruce and Nancy. Lively grandmother to Debra, Jonathan, Peter Sarlin, Stephanie and Anthony Martino, Elizabeth 
 KOMANOFF-Hannah. On April 9, at the Long Beach Medical Center in Long Beach, New York. Beloved and devoted wife of Isidore Komanoff, a stock broker and philanthropist who died in 1985; mother of Frederica Miceli, Ruth Underwood and Charles Komanoff; grandmother of Andrew Miceli, Dorian Band
 O'REILLY-Beverly. Our dear friend and colleague and very funny lady slipped peacefully away on April 5. Happily, her wit, warmth, and accomplishments linger. Viewing Monday April 17, 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM, Conway Funeral Home, 82-01 Northern Blvd., Jackson Heights, NY. Cinemakers Ed Schultz and
 SCHAFFER-Beverly. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Stanley and her family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary SCHAFFER-Beverly (aka Beb
 AVNER-Sylvia. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Sylvia Avner, our beloved friend. She was Librarian at the 92nd Street Y for ten years, with a particular interest in children's library services. Since retiring in 1993, she has dedicated her energy to
 EISENBERG-Bernice, on April 8, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Penny, David, Joann, Donna, Richard, Ellen. Loving sister of Sandy and Helen Gilbert, Bill and Grace Gilbert. Loving grandmother of Chris, Jenny, Margaret, Missy. Adoring great grandmother of Nick, Todd 
 GALUTEN-Iris G. On April 9, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Morris, treasured mother of Jeffrey and Alan Albhy. Adored grandmother of Jill, David, Jason and Noah. Her passing has saddened and the memory of her life will be cherished by many. Graveside services will be held on Wednesday, 11:3
 GRANT-Flora L. On April 8. Beloved wife of the late Samuel S. Grant. Devoted mother of Gerald R. Grant and the late Herbert L. Grant. Mother-in-law of Joan Grant. Loving grandmother of Susan, Jim, Harriet and Jane. Great grandmother of Zachary, Elizabeth, Hal and Ricki. A woman of great str
 GREENHOUSE-Irene, died on April 9th, 2000. Beloved wife of the late William Greenhouse. Devoted mother to Don and Lona Greenhouse. Loving grandmother to Erica, Jessica, Jason and Adam. We'll miss her love, warmth and humor.       
 HALBERG-Hannah C. On April 9, 2000. Devoted wife of Herbert. Loving mother of David, Brian and Kenneth. Adored daughter of Estelle. Dear sister of Sandra Weinstein. Funeral service will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave at 65th St, Tuesday, 12:30 PM. Interment to follow Mt. Carmel Cemet
 HORELICK-Alice (nee Blei). On March 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Reuben. Loving mother of Peter Thorner. Cherished grandmother of Brian & Sarah Thorner. Dear sister of Ira Blei and the late Elaine Weiner and Alvin Blei. Memorial service Friday, April 14, 2:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 
 KOMANOFF-Hannah. On April 9, at the Long Beach Medical Center in Long Beach, New York. Beloved and devoted wife of Isidore Komanoff, a stock broker and philanthropist who died in 1985; mother of Frederica Miceli, Ruth Underwood and Charles Komanoff; grandmother of Andrew Miceli, Dorian Band
 KUTTNER-Phyllis. A loving and generous woman, died peacefully on april 9th at age 80. Married for over 50 years to Louis-David Kuttner, who preceded her in death; beloved mother of Robin Gausebeck, doting grandmother to Barbara and Daniel Fellars. She spent her years as a tireless working M
 LEVY-Emeline Ress. Of Fort Lee and West Palm Beach on April 9, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Devoted mother of Michael Levy and Janet Pollner. Loving grandmother of Lauren, Meredith, Rachel and Steven, and four great grandchildren. She was a co-founder of Levy's Sports Center. Ser
 SCHAFFER-Beverly (aka Bebby Dear). Of Scarsdale, NY, and Delray Beach, FL, daughter of the late Max Borodkin and sister of the late Sheldon, survived by her mother Mary. She depended upon and loved, with humor and adoration, her husband of 53 years, ''Dear'' (Stanley). She was a capable yac
 SCHIROTA-Ella, on April 9, 2000, at the age of 89. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Mother of Stuart and Barbara. Grandmother of Jeffrey and Johnna. Devoted sister of Sidney, Sandy and Leon Stone. Dear companion of Myrtle. Service Wednesday, 11:30AM, at ''Westchester Reform Temple'', 255 Mam
 SCHWEITZER-Dorothy C. of Wayne, PA., formerly of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. on April 9, 2000 in her sleep, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Martin. Devoted mother of Seth, Lawrence (Beth), Sarah Leah, & Jane (Douglas). Adored grandmother of Aaron, Eric, Jenny, Emily, Benjamin an
 WIENER-Ruth S. Died April 5. Kindhearted, generous and compassionate, she will be sorely missed by her beloved daughter, Laurie, sister, Judy, grandchildren, Heidi and Mark, Lisa and Ezra, great grandchildren, and all who knew her.       
 BLECHER-Arline C. On April 4, 2000. Wife of the late Samuel Blecher. Beloved mother of Bonnie B. Cohen and Barry S. Blecher. Mother-in-law of Dr. Paul I. Cohen. Loving grandmother of Diana M. Tauder. With her great zest for life we will miss her dearly.       
 EISENBERG-Bernice, on April 8, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Penny, David, Joann, Donna, Richard, Ellen. Loving sister of Sandy and Helen Gilbert, Bill and Grace Gilbert. Loving grandmother of Chris, Jenny, Margaret, Missy. Adoring great grandmother of Nick, Todd 
 GREENFIELD-Alyce. The family and friends of Alyce Greenfield mourn her passing on Monday, April 10, after a long illness. A graveside funeral will be held at Riverside Cemetery, in Lodi, NJ, on Wednesday, April 12, at 2 PM. Shiva will be observed on Wednesday and Thursday at the home of her
 HORNSTEIN - Lillian Herlands, Professor Emerita of English, Washington Square College, New York University died on April 10, 2000 at St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital. Beloved wife of the late George D. Hornstein, Professor of Corporation Law, NYU. She was predeceased by her brothers, Hon. Willi
 KURSHAN-Charlotte, peacefully in her sleep on April 10th, 2000 after celebrating her 82nd birthday. Survived by her husband Norman, daughters Nancy and Louise, and grandchildren Rosa, Michael, Nicholas and Sally.       
 MEYER-Sophie (nee Unschuld). On April 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Meyer. Dearest mother of Ann Welch, Carol Meyer Stern and Susan Meyer. Cherished grandmother of Gerald and Carla Stern, Steven Stern, James Welch and David Welch. Devoted great-grandmother of Samuel Meyer Stern
 MRUVKA-Ruth. The Friends of the Israel Defense Forces mourns the passing of a great supporter of the soldiers of Israel. Our heartfelt condolences to her dear husband, Murray and deepest sympathy to the entire family. In lieu of flowers, donations are to be made to Friends of the Israel Def
 SCHAUER-Paula. Congregation Ohab Zedek Manhattan records with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime beloved generous member and former Sisterhood president. To her daughter, Suzanne, and her family we extend our sincerest condolences. Rabbi Allen Schwartz Murray Zucker, President       
 SEILER-Pauline R. Age 93, of Rockville, Maryland, beloved wife of the late Max W. Seiler, died April 10, 2000. She is survived by her loving children, Ilene Gruenfeld, and sons, Leonard, and Dr. Jerome Seiler, and daughter-inlaws, Elaine and Harriet, son-inlaw, Ernest, and adoring fourteen 
 SUNUNU-Victoria Dada passed away on April 10, 2000 at her home in Gulf Stream, FL. Mrs. Sununu was born in San Salvador, El Salvador on Sept. 17, 1912 and was a longtime resident of Forest Hills, NY until 1979, when she and her husband John moved to Gulf Stream, FL. ''Toya'' was the mother 
 WADE-Joan Kehoe, on April 11, 2000. Beloved wife and best friend to Peter H. Wade; cherished mother to Kevin, David and Tim Wade, Jennifer Garrity, and Laura Farley, who were at her side when she died. She also leaves behind her dear sisters Anne Hollrock and Mary Marbach, and was preceded 
 WOOTERS-Brigitte I. Died in Tucson, AZ on April 9, 2000 as the result of an accident. Beloved wife of J. Dukes Wooters, Jr. and the late Robert M. Schwarzenbach. She is survived by four children, Elizabeth S. DiLeo, Jessica Schwarzenbach, Professor Sybil Schwarzenbach, Peter M. Schwarzenbac
 Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment. According to music reference sources she was 68. She died of natural causes, said Ellen Borakove, spokeswoman for the New York C
 ABRAMS-Harriet Marilyn (nee Vogel). Cherished wife of Dr. Abraham. Beloved mother of Gary and Joan, Janet and Louis and Ellen and David. Cherished grandmother of Bryan, Lindsey, Jason, Alexis, Kerry, Ryan, Elizabeth and Tracy. Dear sister of Sherman and Jeanette Vogel and Betty Hartenstein.
 AVINO-Susan. The entire Little Red School House & Elisabeth Irwin High School community mourns the tragic loss of Susan Avino, courageous and beloved teacher, friend, and parent of Jesse and Nathaniel. We extend all our love and sympathy to her family. Susan will always be a beacon for us a
 DLUGOSZEWSKI - Lucia. The 92nd Street Y mourns the loss of composer and choreographer Lucia Dlugoszewski, who, with her husband, Erick Hawkins, created an entirely new vocabulary of music and movement that stretched the boundaries of modern dance performance. After Hawkins' death in 1994, D
 McCRAY-Bernice (MacNeil, 81, of New York City, on April 12th. Beloved wife of the late James O. McCray. Devoted mother of Mrs. Joyce Wyckoff of Mountainside, NJ. She will be deeply missed by her three grandchildren and four great grandchildren. A mass of Christian Burial on Saturday at 1O A
 ROSOW-Ethel. April 12,2000. Beloved wife of the late Norman. Devoted mother of Richard, Patricia and Malcolm Lazarus. Cherished grandmother of Steven and Caryl, David and Gail, Andy and Cheryl and Daniela. Great-grandmother of Bryan, Jeffrey, Alison, Michael, Jordan and Evan. Friends may ca
 BLOCK-Shirley. 82, of North Miami Beach, FL, formerly of New York City, died April 12, 2000 in Florida. Beloved wife of the late Hyman Block. She is survived by her loving daughter Ann L. Block and brother Ivan (Edie) Bobier. Funeral services today in FL. Riverside-Gordon 1-800-759-1151    
 DLUGOSZEWSKI - Lucia. The Board and staff of The Joyce Theater mourn the passing of Lucia Dlugoszewski, composer, teacher and Artistic Director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company. Her innovative compositions and tireless dedication to the arts will continue to inspire many dancers, musician
 HALPERIN-Betty. On April 13, 2000. In her 75th year. Beloved wife of the late Arnold and mother of Mark, Richard, Fred and Jane. Loving grandmother of Amy, Kyra, Perryn, Brad, Stephanie, Zachary & Jordan. Sister of Risselle & Deena. Private graveside service.       
 HOGEN-Carolyn. Died peacefully on March 27 in Lenox, Massachusetts. A native of Cleveland, Carol graduated from Smith College in 1932. She married Charles ''Sonny'' Hogen, also of Cleveland, with whom she shared 66 years of marriage. She is survived by her adoring husband, their five childr
 KOMANOFF-Hannah. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach note with profound sorrow the passing of Mrs. Hannah Komanoff A''H, who as a member of the Board of Supervisors of Nassau County, was always a friend and very supportive of our Yeshiva. May the Almighty c
 KUGEL-Virginia on April 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Julian. Devoted mother of Ann Kugel and the late Jean Kugel Levinson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday 2-5 & 7-9PM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to The C
 McCRAY-Bernice (MacNeil, 81, of New York City, on April 12th.) Beloved wife of the late James O. McCray. Devoted mother of Mrs. Joyce Wyckoff of Mountainside, NJ. She will be deeply missed by her three grandchildren and four great grandchildren. A mass of Christian Burial on Saturday at 1O 
 KUGEL-Virginia on April 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Julian. Devoted mother of Ann Kugel and the late Jean Kugel Levinson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday 2-5 & 7-9PM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to The C
 LOVETT-Joan Campbell. Age 71. On April 14, 2000, of Holderness, NH, formerly of Arlington, VA, Hinsdale, IL; West Hartford, CT, beloved wife of Sidney Lovett, former Senior Minister at the First Church of Christ in West Hartford, CT. She is also survived by her daughters, Kathy Lovett Weymo
 PITOFSKY-Mary Linn (nee Beller) on April 13, 2000 at Greenwich Hospital, after a long and valiant fight with cancer. Loving wife of Robert L. Pitofsky, daughter of Helen and the late Samuel Beller. Mary Linn was a professional actress who appeared in TV's first soap opera, ''The First Hundr
 REISS-Ruth K. On April 13, 2000 at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Georges Bernard Reiss. Loving mother of Elizabeth Baecher and Jeanne-Marie Byington. Adoring grandmother of John and Edward Baecher, and great-grandmother of two. Devoted sister of Martin L. and Robert D. Kay, dear aunt and
 SCHAGER-Eunice Shevlin, 81, of Cleveland, Ohio and Dresden Mills, Maine, at home on April 8. Born in Dresden Mills, Maine, on October 14, 1919, daughter of Vincent James Shevlin of Brooklyn and Dresden Mills, and Bernice Woodward Shevlin. Survived by her husband Richard J. Schager, five chi
 MEISTER - Florence Glickstein. Marking the 100th anniversary of the birth of Florence (Flossie) Glickstein Meister whose life was fruitful, ethical, warm and welcoming to friends and musically nourishing to her children and grandchildren. Her Famil       
 CHERNISS-Ruth (nee Meyer). On April 11, 2000, in Princeton, NJ, at 95. Beloved wife of the late Harold Cherniss. Her family joins her many friends in mourning the loss of her vibrant presence in our lives. Leonore Meyer and family       
 MILLER-Sara (nee Zimler). Of Tamarac, FL and Seattle, WA. Died April 3, age 92. Born in NYC, married William Miller, D.D.S. in 1940. Woman of action, keen intelligence, vitality, competence and optimism, devoted to family, ideals and profession; Phi Beta Kappa UCLA graduate; Law Review NYU 
 MITCHELL-Yetta. On April 14, 2000. Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, a good friend to many. She will be missed by her family and companions, Georgia, Madge and Veronica.       
 MUNSON-Elizabeth Delza (Hurwitz). Born February 9, 1893. Died April 13, 2000. She was a dancer, dance teacher, and teacher of the Alexander Technique to singers. She compiled her late husband's, Gorham Munson's, last book, editing his notes and writings concerning the emerging literature an
 PITOFSKY-Lynne (nee Mary Linn Beller). April 13, 2000 at Greenwich Hospital, CT. Lynne was the essence of goodness and sweetness. She was the most devoted, loving, caring wife, mother, daughter, ''nonni'' and friend. Her heart was full of love for so many people. One of her legacies was tha
 REISS-Ruth K. On April 13, 2000 at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Georges Bernard Reiss. Loving mother of Elizabeth Baecher and Jeanne-Marie Byington. Adoring grandmother of John and Edward Baecher, and great-grandmother of two. Devoted sister of Martin L. and Robert D. Kay, dear aunt and
 ROCKMAN-Miriam Berger. Widow of Sam, beloved mother of Lynn, Lewis and Steven. Grandmother to Allison and Susannah. Loved by son-in-law Alphie McCourt. A beautiful, loving mother, grandmother and friend, she cherished babies, bagels and butterflies. Service Sunday, 1 PM, Riverside Chapel, 7
 WEINER-Lillian. On April 12, 2000. Of Davie, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn. Beloved wife of Harry. Loving mother of Arthur (Jean) and the late Gerard. Adored grandmother of Emily and David. Beloved sister, cousin, aunt, and friend to many. A woman of unending warmth, humor and spirit, she w
 WOLHANDLER-Malvina. Cherished daughter and beloved sister and aunt. She will be remembered by all who knew her as a loving and generous person with a caring and cheerful heart. She will be missed by her family and friends for her wise counsel and love of life. She touched many lives by her 
 Sasha Von Scherler, an actress and comedian who appeared in more than 100 productions in New York City, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung disease, said her daughter, Ruth Mayer. Miss Von Scherler 
 Dorothy Hart, the editor of two highly praised books of song lyrics by her brother-in-law, Lorenz Hart, of Rodgers and Hart fame, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Ontario, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mrs. Hart was the widow of Lorenz Hart's brother, Theodore
 Hannah Komanoff, the first woman elected to the Board of Supervisors in Nassau County, N.Y., died on Sunday at a hospital in Long Beach, on Long Island. She was 89. Mrs. Komanoff, a Democrat, was elected to the board from Long Beach, where she lived much of her life, in 1973, and se
 BRESLER-Rita. Beloved wife of Jay, mother of Marjorie Thompson, grandmother of Kirsten Thompson, after a short illness on April 16. A memorial service is planned for later this year. Donations in her memory can be made to the Library Fund of the New York Hospital for Special Surgery for whi
 DWORKIN-Selma. Mrs. Selma Dworkin passed away on Tuesday, April 4 in Fresno, CA. Donations in her name may be made to any pet organization or any Jewish charitable organization. Correspondence may be sent to Dr. Sari H. Dworkin, 1234 Fremont Avenue, Clovis, CA 93612.       
 FADEM-Rose (Rosenblum). On April 15, 2000. Aged 102. Beloved wife of the late Harry Fadem; dearest mother of Leroy and Edna Mae Fadem; cherished grandmother of Steven and Laurie Fadem, Barbara and Jeffrey Hayden, Kathryn and Harry Ivrey, Diane and Jeffrey Kennedy; adored great-grandmother o
 FRANKLIN - Helen Firstbrook (Hector). Died at Winter Park Memorial Hospital Tuesday, April 11. Mrs. Franklin was born in Plainfield, NJ, and grew up in Asbury Park. Mrs. Franklin worked as a reporter for the Asbury Park Press and the New York Herald Tribune. She graduated from the Universit
 REISS-Ruth K. On April 13, 2000, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Georges Bernard Reiss. Loving mother of Elizabeth Baecher and Jeanne-Marie Byington. Adoring grandmother of John and Edward Baecher, and great-grandmother of two. Devoted sister of Martin L. and Robert D. Kay, dear aunt an
 VON SCHERLER-Sasha. Dear, cherished friend. How fortunate we are to have had Sasha in our lives. Her wisdom, love and beautiful spirit enriched all who knew her. Adored by Paul Avila Mayer, her husband for 42 years, and blessed with three wonderful daughters, Rachael, Ruth and Daisy, and th
 WESTCOAT-Marie Hitt, of Madison, CT. Died on April 10, 2000. Her husband Carleton, son Richard and two grandchildren survive her. A memorial service will take place Saturday, May 6 at St. Andrew's in Madison. Donations may be made to the CT. Hospice, 61 Burban Dr. Branford, CT. 06405.      
 BRODY-Harvey. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Merryl Katz and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 DELGAIS-Marisa. On April 14, 2000. It is with deepest sorrow and much regret that Valentina Lima Delgais announces the passing of her beloved mother and mentor. A pioneer of industry as the first woman ''builder and developer'' of New York real estate at a time when female executives were s
 FADEM-Rose (Rosenblum). On April 15, 2000. Aged 102. Beloved wife of the late Harry Fadem; dearest mother of Leroy and Edna Mae Fadem; cherished grandmother of Steven & Laurie Fadem, Barbara and Jeffrey Hayden, Kathryn and Harry Ivrey, Diane and Jeffrey Kennedy; adored great-grandmother of 
 BRADLEY-Mary E. The employees of International Registries, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague, Mary E. Bradley, on April 14, 2000. Our sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her wonderful mother Margaret, brothers Bill and Mike, and their families.       
 FAULKNER-Sylvia. The Board of Directors of Project Return Foundation mourn the passing of the beloved mother of our President Jane Velez. We join the many Project Return employees and their clients in extending our condolences to Sylvia's husband Stanley and all the members of the bereaved 
 FRIED-Arlene L. On April 17, 2000 after a spirited and courageous battle with cancer. Wife of Herbert for forty years. Mother of Alison and Terri. Grandmother of Aviva Rachel. Inspiring teacher whose vivid style and penchant for purple will be remembered by all of the students, family and f
 GLOVER-Micheline C., of White Plains, New York, age 76 passed away at White Plains Hospital April 15, 2000. Born in Paris, France to Lambert Blum-Picard and Josephine Berthet, Nov. 29th, 1923. Beloved wife to Garlan for 53 years, sister to Gilbert (deceased) and Pierre, loving mother to Fra
 GUTCHEON-Sylvia Becker. April 14, 2000. Much loved wife of Jack, mother of Jeffrey and of Peppi Graves, grandmother of David Gutcheon and Lucy Graves. She was born in New York City, lived her adult life in Washington Heights, and summered at Lake Oscawana in Putnam County. She was a consumm
 LIEBGOTT-Pearl. On April 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Frances, Marcelle and Marty. Dear sister of Blanche, Eva, Gerty, Anna and Rose. Adoring grandmother of Karen, Elizabeth, Dana, Jonathan, David, Blythe, Mara and great grandchildren. Supporter of Jewish ide
 McTERNAN-Dorothy Hutchisson of Manhattan NY on April 16, 2000. She was a school teacher for 40 years with N.Y. Board of Education. Formerly elected ''Teacher of the Year''. She also was Administrator of the Fashion Institute of New York. Wife of the late Thomas and sister of the late Adelai
 RAYMAN-Esther. Independent Suwalker Benevolent Association mourns our beloved Hospitaler, Esther Rayman, and sends condolences to her family and friends. Arthur S. Leonard, President Leslie Sherer, Honorary President       
 WASTCOAT-Marie Hitt, of Madison, CT. Died on April 10, 2000. Her husband Carleton, son Richard and two grandchildren survive her. A memorial service will take place Saturday, May 6 at St. Andrew's in Madison. Donations may be made to the CT. Hospice, 61 Burban Dr. Branford, CT. 06405.      
 YOURAN-Mae. Died peacefully on April 17, 2000 at the age of 90. Beloved sister of Evelyn Meade, loving companion of Vincent Marino for 43 years. Mae loved her beagles, David and Bagel. Her zest for life took her traveling far and wide, her strength gave us all hope and inner peace. Mae will
 Alice Sheets Marriott, matriarch of the tight-knit family whose name stands on thousands of hotels worldwide, died on Monday in Washington. She was 92. Beginning in 1927 with a single root beer stand, Mrs. Marriott and her husband, J. Willard Marriott Sr., built one of the world's l
 Lila Kedrova, the Russian-born actress whose portrayals of an aging French prostitute in screen and stage versions of ''Zorba the Greek'' won her an Academy Award and a Tony, died on Feb. 16 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. She was believed to be around 82. Her death was announced in T
 ABRAHAM-Selma E. Age 82, on April 18,2000, peacefully in her home in Manhattan, where she wanted to be. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother to Emily, Cookie, Carolyn and Seth and beloved mother-in-law of Fernando, Alan, Joe and Lynn. She is lovingly remembered by her nine grandc
 BRADLEY-Mary E. The employees of International Registries, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague, Mary E. Bradley, on April 14, 2000. Our sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her wonderful mother Margaret, brothers Bill and Mike, and their families.       
 FAULKNER - Sylvia (Ostroff). April 17, 2000. Beloved wife of Stanley. Mother of Michael (Randy), Larry & Jane. Grandmother of Jon, Ben, Meghan and Emily. 1987 Graduate of Hunter College, a fighter for peace and human equality, a partner to Stanley and an inspiration to her children.       
 LLOYD-JONES-Beverly M. April 18, 2000. Much loved mother of Anne, Lisa, Susie and Don, and grandmother of Mark, Greg, Claire, Elizabeth, Cameron and Alexander; cherished wife and bridge partner of our late father, Donald. She was the heart of our family and gave us each the love and confide
 MORGENSTERN-Felice Benedict, beloved wife of Frederic Morgenstern, devoted Mother of Catherine and Michael Benedict, and proud of her grandchildren, Nicholas, Matthew & Jonathon Benedict passed away on April 17. She will be painfully missed not only by her family, colleagues and friends but
 ROSEN-Dorothy (nee Jacobs). Age 82. Beloved wife of the late Irving Rote Rosen. Cherished mother of Michael, Sheila, Elaine and Anita. Devoted mother-in-law of Heather, Markell and Alan. Proud grandmother of ten and great grandmother of five. Brilliant, beautiful and charitable, she left a 
 SLOAN-Marion Baker. Of Jupiter, FL, formerly of Rumson, NJ, on April 9, 2000, age 76. Wife of Samuel Sloan, III, Mother of Marion Baker Sloan of New York, NY, Dorothy Titus McFeeters of Boston, MA, Cynthia Titus Powers of South Royalton, VT., and the late Jay deWitt Titus. Grandmother of Ri
 STONE - FRIEDLANDER - Judy, M.D. The Partners and staff of Concord/Kips Bay Medical Group extend their deepest sympathies to our colleague and partner, Charles Friedlander, on the untimely passing of his wife. The quintessential 20th century woman, Judy Stone-Friedlander somehow managed to 
 ABRAHAM-Selma E. Age 82, on April 18,2000, peacefully in her home in Manhattan, where she wanted to be. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother to Emily, Cookie, Carolyn and Seth and beloved mother-in-law of Fernando, Alan, Joe and Lynn. She is lovingly remembered by her nine grandc
 BRADLEY-Mary E. The employees of International Registries, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our dear and respected colleague, Mary E. Bradley, on April 14, 2000. Our sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her wonderful mother Margaret, brothers Bill and Mike, and their families.       
 BROOKFIELD-Alyce P. A longtime Rye resident died instantaneously in a motor vehicle accident on April 18, 2000 in Westborough, MA. She was 84. Mrs. Brookfield was born June 27, 1915 in Rye, NY to Reginald W. and Mattie Smith Pressprich. She was educated in the Brearley School in NYC, Rye Co
 BUCKLER-Phyllis. Cherished wife of 56 years to Bruce. Adoring mother to Susan and Keith. Delighted grandmother of little Joey. Loving sister of Roslyn and Lester, and siblings who have passed on; Helen, Edith, Abe and Ralph. Devoted aunt of Phyllis, Sonny, Jonny and Meryl. A woman of extrao
 GREENSHER - Dorothy (nee Cole), 84 years old, of Delray Beach, Florida, died April 17, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving Greensher and Max Kleinman; mother of Barry Kleinman and the late Sandra Raynor; grandmother of Jeff Kleinman, Daniel and Robert Raynor, and great-grandmother of four
 HERLING-Eleanor (nee Brinkmann). On April 19, 2000. Wife of the late John P. Herling. She graduated with an A.B. from Barnard College in 1936 and B.S. from Columbia University School of Library Service, 1942. She also studied at the Universite de Paris, Institut d'Art et D'Archeologie, 1936
 RAYNOR-Sandra (nee Kleinman), 68 years old, of Hillsboro Beach, Fla., and Hemlock Farms, Pa., formerly of Great Neck and Manhattan, died April 17, 2000. Beloved wife of Arnold; mother of Daniel (Susan) and Robert (Kathleen); sister of Barry Kleinman; grandmother of Devon, Zachary, Samantha 
 SCOTT-Dorothy B., 60 of Airmont NY died, Tuesday April 18, 2000. Born July 27, 1939 in Brooklyn, the daughter of Anthony & Josephine Rodino Bologna. Survived by her beloved husband Malcolm, 2 sons: Peter and Michael de la Garza of Florida. Daughter: Lisa de la Garza of Los Angeles, Californ
 ABRAHAM-Selma E. Age 82, on April 18,2000, peacefully in her home in Manhattan, where she wanted to be. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother to Emily, Cookie, Carolyn and Seth and beloved mother-in-law of Fernando, Alan, Joe and Lynn. She is lovingly remembered by her nine grandc
 GERMAIN-Elaine. The Board of Directors of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City mourns the loss of their loyal Program Director. For over 25 years Elaine made a significant difference in the lives of people with disabilities and their families. Our condolences to her husband, Bob, and sons
 GOLDSTEIN-Stella. (nee Levi). On Thursday, April 20, 2000. Of West Orange, NJ. Wife of the late George. Beloved sister-in-law of Bella Goldstein. Aunt of three nieces & three nephews. Funeral service on Sunday at 10:30 A.M. in Congregation B'nai Jeshurun, 1025 South Orange Avenue, Short Hil
 GREENE-Marta. At Sharon, CT, April 21, 2000. Resident of Millbrook, NY and Siasconet, Nantucket. Survived by her husband Thurston Greene, her son Edward Davies, Charlotte, NC and a brother, William Brodie of Granville, OH. Memorial services will be held Tuesday at 11:00 AM, April 25 at St. 
 HUGH-Sr. Mary (formerly known as Sr. Saint James), R.S.H.M. Provincial Archivist. Died April 20, 2000, Tarrytown, N.Y. She was a Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary for fifty years, taught at Mary Mount Academy and other R.S.H.M. schools, served as Administrator, Provincial and General Tr
 KRAMER-Margaret Strauss. Wife of the late Jean Kramer. She was a renowned chemist with degrees from John Hopkins and NYU, graduated from Goucher College. Formerly a member of Fairview Country Club. She moved to Palm Beach, Fla. in 1975. A Memorial Service will be held at Temple Israel, 1901
 WILSON-Dr. Phyllis Collins, Ed.D, 92, of Hanover, NH, formerly of New York City, died April 13th in Hanover. Dr. Wilson was born June 16, 1907 in Wallingford, Vermont and spent most of her childhood in Hingham, Massachusetts. She was the daughter of the late Orvis K. Collins and May (Burdit
 BERMAN-Lillian. On April 21, 2000. Survived by two sons, seven grandchildren and eleven great grandchildren. She had a long and productive life. In lieu of flowers donations to Cabrini Hospice in her name would be appreciated. Services private.       
 EISMAN-Martha. On April 20, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Heime. Loving mother of Roberta and Arnold. Dear aunt of Linda Loftus. She will be profoundly missed and will always be in our hearts. Service Sunday, 2 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GAMACHE-Bernice. Age 73, on April 20, 2000, after a long illness. Nicci is lovingly remembered by daughter Paula, son Bruce, grandson Alex and son-in-law Serge. Memorial gathering at family home on Sunday, April 30. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in her name to White Plains H
 GERSON-Janet. 55 years old of Laguna Nigel, CA. She was a loving aunt to Jan, Vanessa and Zoe Greenfield and a beloved sister to Renee Gerson. Her kindness and generosity of heart will be greatly missed by all who knew her. She was a beautiful human being both inside & out. She was apprecia
 GREENE-Marta. The members of the board and staff of Scenic Hudson, Inc. remember with affection the exemplary service, loyalty and wit of our beloved board member Marta Greene. Her unwavering support and commitment to Scenic Hudson over many years have been a source of inspiration to all he
 KIPNESS-Dorothy, 96, a very special woman of valor. Will always be cherished by those she touched. -Her Loving Family       
 KRAMER-Margaret Strauss. Died April 21 in Palm Beach, FL. Adored wife of the late Eugene W. Kramer and beloved aunt of Elaine, Patricia, and Peggy Blumenthal; Susan Ronsheim Fisch and David Ronsheim and Richard and Kip Lewis. A brilliant chemist and generous philanthropist, she will be grea
 LAUBER - Maya Spangenberg. Beloved daughter of Edith and the late Lester Spangenberg, died suddenly on April 13, in Arizona. A young doctor of exceptional talent, with deep concern for her patients. How fortunate those of us who knew her. Memorial service 6 PM, Friday, April 28, at the Fift
 LLOYD-JONES-Beverly M. April 18, 2000. Much loved mother of Anne, Lisa, Susie and Don, and grandmother of Mark, Greg, Claire, Elizabeth, Cameron and Alexander; cherished wife and bridge partner of our late father, Donald. She was the heart of our family and gave us each the love and confide
 MAGIDOFF-Ruth. Passed away April 20, 2000. Widow of Davis. Survived by loving daughter, Natalie Sheffler, and son-in-law, Frank; adoring son, Alan Magidoff, and daughter-in-law, Iris; 7 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. She lived almost a century of loving and being loved. Graveside
 McHUGH-Sr. Mary. The Marymount School community mourns the death of our beloved alumna and former colleague, Sr. Mary McHugh. As a dedicated teacher and Head of Upper School she is remembered with respect and affection by students and staff. She shared with all of us a keen sense of justice
 McHUGH-Sr. Mary (formerly known as Sr. Saint James), R.S.H.M. Provincial Archivist. Died April 20, 2000, Tarrytown, N.Y. She was a Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary for fifty years, taught at Mary Mount Academy and other R.S.H.M. schools, served as Administrator, Provincial and General 
 MILLER-Lynne. On Friday, April 21, 57 years old, died suddenly. Survived by her mother Dorothy Miller of Riverdale, NY. Services will be held Monday, April 24. For information pleae call Riverside Chapel, 212-362-6600.       
 PERLBERG-Annette. In her 95th year. Brilliant teacher. Beloved wife of the late Elijah. Devoted mother of Dorothy and Saul Muchnick, Lynn and Gerald Sheer. Cherished grandmother of Laurie (David), Robert (Laurence), Meredith (Peter) and Adam. Adored great grandmother of Eva and Sofia. Dear 
 STONE - FRIEDLANDER - Judy, M.D. The Partners and staff of Concord/Kips Bay Medical Group extend their deepest sympathies to our colleague and partner, Charles Friedlander, on the untimely passing of his wife. The quintessential 20th century woman, Judy Stone-Friedlander somehow managed to 
 TASHKOVICH-Virginia (nee Harlow). On April 14, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Gligor and stepmother of the late Vuko and Otto, loving mother-in-law of Stefanie and Cassandre and grandmother of Felicia, Mark and Gligor Tashkovich. Known professionally as Virginia Harlow, she had a long caree
 WAGNER-Ethel M. Of Bayside, NY on April 15. Beloved wife of Seymour; cherished mother of Mitchell, Kenneth and Adam; dear sister of Nathan and the late Jeanette; devoted daughter of the late Abraham and Rae. She gave her love, respect and courage to her family and friends and we will miss h
 WILKINSON-Lucinda Pina. April 21, 2000. Age 61, died peacefully April 21 at her home in Manhattan of breast cancer, which she had been fighting for the last two years. Born in Madrid, Spain, Luly received her master's degree in physical chemistry from the University of Madrid and studied at
 Micheline Glover, who as an 18-year-old girl worked for the French Resistance during World War II, delivering secret messages under the eyes of unwitting German soldiers, died April 15 in White Plains Hospital in White Plains, N.Y. She was 76. Mrs. Glover, who was born in Paris, rec
 BRYDON - SHROCK - Mary Eli zabeth. Died April 23, 2000, at her home in White Plains, NY. Born in Buffalo, NY. Survived by her husband, Ronald A. Shrock; a sister, Sally (Brydon) Lewis; four nephews and a niece. Predeceased by a sister, Jean (Brydon) Kahn Bjanes. A graduate of Syracuse Unive
 JANOFF-Marilyn. Age 75. Formerly of East Norwich, Long Island, passed away April 21, 2000 in Boca Raton, FL. Survived by her husband Murray, son Craig of Scottsdale, AZ, daughters, Karen Clukies of Greenlawn, LI and Donna Augustyniak of Melbourne, FL; five grandchildren; three greatgrandchi
 KISSANE-Lucille Paolillo. April 21, 2000, at age 48. Vice President of St. Francis Hospital, Roslyn, NY. Beloved wife of Robert Kissane and mother of Evan Danaher. Loving daughter of Ciro and the late Lucille Paolillo and sister of Robert and Gary Paolillo. Friends may call at Frank E. Camp
 MARTIN-Patricia Motlow Boyd. Of Dallas, died April 20, 2000. Mrs. Martin was born on January 13, 1941. She was a founding officer of General Cryogenics. She is survived by her husband, Patrick Stephen Martin; a daughter, Evans Motlow Smith Martin; her mother, Mary Motlow Boyd of Lexington, 
 MURAD-Rachel. Beloved mother of six; cherished grandmother of 11 and adored great-grandmother of 20. Passed away on April 20, 2000. Rachel was born in 1906 in Baghdad and immigrated to NYC in 1946. She was married for 74 years to Albert Murad who preceded her in death in 1996. Her memory wi
 WILKINSON-Lucinda Pina. April 21, 2000. Age 61, died peacefully April 21 at her home in Manhattan of breast cancer, which she had been fighting for the last two years. Born in Madrid, Spain, Luly received her master's degree in physical chemistry from the University of Madrid and studied at
 OBER-Anita Rosenblum. June 26, 1919-April 24, 1990. Death took her 10 years ago today But eternal love never fades away Norma       
 Jane Trahey, one of the most prominent advertising women of the 1960's, who was best known for Blackglama's ''What Becomes a Legend Most?'' campaign, died of cancer Saturday at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 76. Known as a brilliant copywriter, Ms. Trahey was also credited with cat
 BRYDON - SHROCK - Elizabeth. The Board of Trustees, Staff and Faculty of Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, M. Elizabeth Brydon-Schrock. Ms. Brydon-Shrock, a member of our Board of Trustees since 1985, served brilliantly as Secretary of the Board
 KANTOR-Catherine Marie. On April 23. Benefits Manager of Rosenman & Colin, LLP, New York, New York. Beloved wife of Frank Liccione. Devoted mother of Alexander and Ryan. Cherished daughter of Peter Kantor & Mary Ellen Kantor. Loving sister of Barbara La Frenz. Adored aunt of Peter and Sean 
 KEARNEY-Cecile Cesia. On April 24, 2000. Holocaust survivor and retired buyer of handbags for Sacks Fifth Avenue. Beloved wife of Peter and step-mother of Jeffrey Kearney. Dear sister of Isaac and Nathan Kistenberg, daughter of the late Samuel and Rachel Kistenberg and loving friend to mana
 KISSANE-Lucille Paolillo. April 21, 2000, at age 48. Vice President of St. Francis Hospital, Roslyn, NY. Beloved wife of Robert Kissane & mother of Evan Danaher. Loving daughter of Ciro and the late Lucille Paolillo and sister of Robert and Gary Paolillo. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbe
 KRAMER-Margaret S., Dr. The officers, members and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed friend Margaret Kramer of Palm Beach. As a Technion Guardian, she demonstrated the highest level of commitment to the Technion-Israel Institute 
 LEEF-Sylvia Tonner. Who lived to do for others. Died in her sleep on April 23, 2000. She was 93. Beloved wife of the late Freddie Leef. Loving mother of Ellen Leef and Michael Sherrow and the late Nettie Leef Mack. Doting Nana of Rachel and Gaby. Graveside service on Tuesday, 10:30AM at Mou
 ROSEN-Dr. Carol Zwick, on April 23, after a valiant struggle against cancer. Dear wife of Bernard. Loving mother of Richard and the late Rachel. Beloved grandmother of Randall, Mae and Alexander. Dear brother of Dr. Harry Zwick of San Antonio. Her life was devoted to her family and her prof
 SCHEINBERG-Sylvia. April 19, 2000. She was a wild spirit who touched everyone who knew her with her humor, her humanity and her song. She is the beloved mother of Linda and Tina, grandmother of Erik, Bryan, Risa, Robert and Leah, great-grandmother of Ross, Isaac, Santino, Michael, Amanda, C
 SMITH-Joan H. (Jody), age 67. Died Saturday, April 22, 2000 at her home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. She was born March 4, 1933 in Yorkshire, England and moved to Ponte Vedra Beach in 1984 from Basking Ridge, N.J. She was a member of the Bishop Janes United Methodist Church of Basking Rid
 TIMPSON-Hilles Morris, on April 23, 2000, after a long illness. Mrs. Timpson was born in Quogue in 1907, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish Morris. She was a direct descendant of Martin Van Buren, 8th President of the United States, and of Lewis Morris, a signer of the Declaration
 Jean Head Sisco, a Washington-based executive and consultant and an energetic advocate of putting women on corporate boards, died on Thursday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 74. The cause was a brain tumor, her management consulting firm, Sisco Associates, said. Mrs.
 CAPELIN-Mildred. April 25, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Stanley. Loving mother of Joan C. Helpern. Cherished grandmother of Lauren Helpern. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private. CAPELIN-Mildred. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York reco
 KEARNEY-Cecile Cesia. On April 24, 2000. Holocaust survivor and retired buyer of handbags for Saks Fifth Avenue. Beloved wife of Peter and step-mother of Jeffrey Kearney. Dear sister of Isaac and Nathan Kistenberg, daughter of the late Samuel and Rachel Kistenberg and loving friend to manay
 KISSANE-Lucille Paolillo. The administration, staff and Franciscan Missionaries of Mary at St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center, of Roslyn, mourn the loss of our friend and colleague. As Vice President for Development since 1992, Lucille's talent for building lasting relationships transfe
 KLAYMAN-Dorothy. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of Dorothy Klayman, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Louis, and children, Cheryl and Barbara. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Barry Swidler, President Herb Selzer, Secretary KLAYMAN - Dorot
 LANGENDORFF-Gabriella. Age 81. Peacefully in her home on April 24, 2000. It is with great sadness that we report the passing of Gabriella Langendorff. Beloved sister of Michael and sister-in-law of Gerda. Loving aunt to Karen, Jeffrey and Frank. Caring friend to all who knew her. Our dear '
 LEBOWITZ-Shirley. The Executive Committee, Board and Staff of the Jewish Labor Committee note with sorrow the death of Shirley Lebowitz, mother of our dear friend and colleague, Lawrence (Arieh) Lebowitz. A devoted and loving wife to her husband, Sey, who passed away this past December, dev
 PEARCE-Helen (nee Baslow). My beautiful, loving, precious, wonderful mother, who loved me and my husband so passionately & unconditionally, and who adored her precious David and Marilyn, passed away April 24, 2000. She was the most devoted caring wife, mother, and Nana Helen. She was self-s
 TOBIAS-Sr. Geraldine, R.G.S. (nee Angela Marie Tobia). Sister of the Good Shepherd, Co-Founder with Sister Mary Paul Janchill of The Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, Brooklyn since 1978. The Center is a neighborhood based social service organization offering support to children, youth
 Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington. She was 89. Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had li
 ALLEMAN-Marie S. Foley, on April 23rd, 2000, Easter Sunday. Her life has drawn peacefully to its close. Memorial service will be held Saturday, April 29th, 3 PM, at St. Thomas More Church, The Foley Chapel, East 89th Street.       
 COHEN-Betty S. On April 25, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Alex M. Cohen and the late Irving Joseph Averick. Loving mother of Pamela G. Averick and Loren Averick Davis. Cherished grandmother of Dana Davis. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Services Friday, April 28, 1
 PEARCE-Helen (nee Baslow). My beautiful, loving, precious, wonderful mother, who loved me and my husband so passionately & unconditionally, and who adored her precious David and Marilyn, passed away April 24, 2000. She was the most devoted caring wife, mother, and Nana Helen. She was self-s
 SCHORSCH-Carol. Mrs. Carol A. Schorsch, age 63, of Atlanta died April 15, 2000. Mrs. Schorsch, a graduate of Becker College, was born and raised in Floral Park, NY, but spent most of her adult life as a homemaker in Aberdeen (Matawan) NJ. She had lived in Roswell and Atlanta since 1991. She
 TOBIA-Sr. Mary Geraldine. The March of Dimes Foundation honors the magnificent life and work of Sr. Mary Geraldine Tobia. As co-founder of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, her legacy continues in the lives of the families she served. Dr. Jennifer L. Howse, President     
 Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived at the center, which is at 345 43rd Street in Suns
 Ulla Isaksson, who wrote screenplays for two Ingmar Bergman films and novels about women's issues, died on April 20 in Stockholm after a long illness. She was 83. In 1958 Mr. Bergman directed ''Brink of Life,'' which Ms. Isaksson (pronounced EE-sack-sohn) adapted  from one of her sh
 Betsy Dworkin, a former senior lecturer in social policy and administration at the University of London's Chelsea and University colleges, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village. She would have been 67 today. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Ronald Dworkin. M
 Carmen Dillon, the first female art director in British film, whose set design for Laurence Olivier's ''Hamlet'' brought her an Academy Award in 1948, died on April 12, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. She was 91. Ms. Dillon regarded her role as interpretive rather than creat
 ALLEMAN-Marie S. Foley, on April 23rd, 2000, Easter Sunday. Her life has drawn peacefully to its close. Memorial service will be held Saturday, April 29th, 3 PM, at St. Thomas More Church, The Foley Chapel, East 89th Street.       
 CALAMITA-Alyda Jansen. Died on Thursday, April 27, 2000 after a two-year battle with cancer. Born and raised in Wayne, NJ, Alyda moved to New York City as a young woman and had careers at CBS Records and later in real estate. On September 3, 1966 she was married to Frank Calamita. Their onl
 CALLAHAN-Lavina Murray. It is with great sadness that we record the death on April 24, 2000 of Lavina Callahan. Beloved mother of Lynn, Gill, Rory, Kevin, Brian, and Michael Callahan; grandmother of Kim Callahan Navarre and of Josh, Maris, Derek, Meagan, Eliza, and Kristin Callahan; and gre
 CARTER-Janet. The Trustees and staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem mourn the passing of one of our Trustees, Janet Carter, on April 25, 2000. Words cannot adequately express our loss for this wonderful, gracious woman who has been involved with our Museum from its inception. May God grant 
 FISHKIN-Rose M. of Freehold, New Jersey died April 20, 2000. She was born in Brooklyn, New York June 17, 1909 to Akiba and Fanya Margolin. After graduating Cornell University in 1930, she married Morris A. Fishkin September 14, 1930. He preceded her in death May 3, 1989. In addition to her 
 GOLDSMITH-Warren R. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Warren R. Goldsmith, Men's Club Board Member, beloved husband of Sisterhood past president Marcia, who together were donors of our Day School. Deepest sympathy to her, daughters, Susan Herman, Rachel Katz, Ilen
 HUBBARD-Mildred W. of Riverhead, on April 26, 2000, age 94. Loving wife of the late Seth A. Hubbard. Cherished sister of Peggy Snow, of Waterford, Conn. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. On June 21, 1995, on her 90th Birthday, the Riverhead Bridge Club proclaimed this day to be Mild
 KIMMEL-June (nee Fischer). Born in Brooklyn. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University Graduate School. She was a member of the Board of Trustees & an assistant treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. She also served as Chairper
 PEARCE-Helen. She had to have been a great mother to have produced such a wonderful friend. Siema, your mother will always be with you. Cynthia and George       
 PEARCE-Helen (nee Baslow). My beautiful, loving, precious, wonderful mother, who loved me and my husband so passionately & unconditionally, and who adored her precious David and Marilyn, passed away April 24, 2000. She was the most devoted caring wife, mother, and Nana Helen. She was self-s
 TOBIA-Sister Mary Geraldine. The board and staff of United Neighborhood Houses mourn the loss of Sister Mary Geraldine. Her dedication and tenacious advocacy on behalf of the city's poorest children and families will be missed. UNH and her settlement house friends and colleagues extend thei
 CASEY-Sr. Mary Nadine, CIJ. Native of Willimantic, CT, a member of the Congregation of the Infant Jesus died on April 27, 2000 in the 39th year of her religious life. Sister is survived by her mother, three sisters, one brother and numerous nieces and nephews. Sister nursed the sick poor in
 COLLINGS-Peter. The Board of Directors and the Academy of Women Achievers of the YWCANYC extend their deepest condolences to their fellow board member and colleague, Debra Walton-Collings, on the passing of her husband, Peter Collings. The YW Staff joins in expressing their profound sorrow 
 DWORKIN-Betsy. The entire NYU Law School community mourns the death of Betsy Dworkin, the wife of our beloved colleague Ronald Dworkin. Her personal distinction, superb taste, and unfailing attention to others made her an unforgettable presence among us. Our thoughts and prayers are with he
 FEIT-Sylvia E. (Bunny) (nee Epstein), of Atlantic Beach, NY, Palm Beach and Tiburon, CA. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Louis Joel Feit. Survived by daughters, Andrea Dougan and Ricki Selby, grandchildren, Michael Feit Dougan, Jennifer Zeidberg, M.D., Scott Selby and Todd Selby. Donations in 
 HARVEY-Sucille M. ''Missy''. Of Williamsburg, Virginia. Died in Riverside Hospital, Newport News, Virginia, on April 26, 2000. Mrs. Harvey was the owner of Yacht Charter Unlimited and the founder of The American Yacht Charter Association and The International San Remo Yacht Meeting. Mrs. Ha
 PEARCE-Helen. She had to have been a great mother to have produced such a wonderful friend. Siema, your mother will always be with you. Cynthia and George       
 Evelyn Graham Irons, a war correspondent who had a romance with the Bloomsbury novelist and poet Vita Sackville-West, died April 3 at her home in Brewster, N.Y. She was two months short of her 100th birthday. Ms. Irons was a 30-year-old editor of the women's page of The Daily Mail i
 BLAND-Miriam (Doniger) entered into rest, April 24, late of Brookline, Massachusetts, formerly of Roslyn Heights, Long Island. Beloved wife of the late David Bland. Devoted mother of Diane & William Brauer of Evanston, Illinois & Jane & Bradley Honoroff of Chestnut Hill, MA. Cherished grand
 CALAMITA-Alyda Jansen. Died on Thursday, April 27, 2000 after a two-year battle with cancer. Born and raised in Wayne, NJ, Alyda moved to New York City as a young woman and had careers at CBS Records and later in real estate. On September 3, 1966 she was married to Frank Calamita. Their onl
 DeLORENZO-Rita. On April 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John J. DeLorenzo. Survived by her sister and brother-in-laws, Joya Paterson and Joseph DeLorenzo, her nephew John Rumpel and her cousin Roland and Lorna Briggs. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St. Sunday an
 GARDNER-Mildred. On April 28, 2000, of Great Neck, NY. Loving wife of the late Allan Gardner. Beloved mother of Robert Gardner and Joan Ehrenfeld. Deeply cherished sister of Evelyn Estridge, Edward Fielding and Beverly Sackler. Adored grandmother of Kate, Jane, Jonathan, Samuel, Andrew and 
 HANLES-Evelyn Jorrisch. One of a kind daughter, sister, wife, aunt, grandmother, cousin and friend. Best friend and devoted wife of the late Lester Hanles. Loving and much loved aunt of Barbara and Judith Jorrisch and families. Adoring grandmother of H. Scott and Eva Harrison and delirious 
 HARVEY-Sucille M. ''Missy''. Of Williamsburg, Virginia. Died in Riverside Hospital, Newport News, Virginia, on April 26, 2000. Mrs. Harvey was the owner of Yacht Charter Unlimited and the founder of The American Yacht Charter Association and The International San Remo Yacht Meeting. Mrs. Ha
 LEGA-Joanna. 77. Died peacefully on April 10, 2000 at Cabrini Hospice after a long illness. She is survived by her son Paul Hershkowitz of Lansing, MI, her daughter Marie Hershkowitz of Northampton, MA and by four grandchildren Ann and Mary Hershkowitz of Lansing, MI., and Benjamin and Samu
 LUBLIN - Emily Langley. Of Brookline, MA, age 84, on April 28. Beloved mother of Langley Danowitz and Alice Morris, former wife of Gerson Lublin, all of NYC, and grandmother of Allison Deaver of Whitefish, MT. Emmy, always a free spirit, served as fashion editor, community volunteer and med
 PEARCE-Helen. She had to have been a great mother to have produced such a wonderful friend. Siema, your mother will always be with you. Cynthia and George       
 ROTH-Mary. 93, of West Palm Beach, FL, passed away Friday, April 28. Born in Brooklyn, she was predeceased by her husband of 73 years, Harry, and son Alan. She is survived by another son, Stanley, daughter-in-law Mimi, granddaughter Eden and great-granddaughter Ashley. A graveside service w
 STEIN-Charlotte. On Thursday, April 27, 2000. The former President of Na'amat USA and a member of the Board of the National Council of Jewish Women. She will be missed by her daughters Norma Dryce and Vivian Finkelstein, and her six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. A service wil
 WECHSLER-Edith Friedman. Of Westboro, MA. Beloved, precious jewel of all of our lives. Daughter, Sister, Wife, Aunt and Mother like no other. The grace, beauty, charm and wit of a diva. A Saint to those she loved, a tigeress against those who put her loved ones at risk. A lover of nature, f
 WINTER-Dora. Gone 30 years today-remembered with love by her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren       
