 BRANDT-Claire (nee Grabois) on March 30th, 1999 at the age of 89. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Neil and Susan and Lawrence and Lois. Cherished grandmother of Michael and Minna, Richard, Heather, Brooke and Gary Fishkind, and Michelle. Proud great-grandmother of Zachary
 CARP-Helen S. Of Mill Valley, CA, on March 30, 1999. Predeceased by husband Bernard, and sister Lenore Rottenberg. Survived by sons David and Joel, and daughter-inlaw Dorothy. Remembered and cherished by those who truly knew her. Contributions may be made to The Alzheimer's Assoc, or The Am
 COHEN-Adrienne. Passed away on March 31, 1999, at the tender age of 55. She was survived by her beloved husband, Barry, and sons, Seth and Mitchell. She was also survived by her mother, Yetta; brother, Neil; two daughters-inlaw, Elisa and Beth, and four beautiful grandchildren, Samantha, Sy
 MESCON-Florence on March 27, 1999 in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted mother of Richard and Michael. Dear mother in law of Miriam. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Jennie, David, Daniel and Hannah. Adored sister of Shirley Leitstein and aunt of Robert, Alex and Bruce Leits
 SCHULTZ-Anne (nee Sager). On March 28, 1999. Formerly of Miami and West Palm Beach, Florida. At the age of 84 passed away after a brief illness. Predeceased by her loving husband Samuel. Beloved mother of Heather Greenfield and Carol Schulz. Dear sister of Nathan, Bertha, Jack, Samuel and J
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. On March 31 at the age of 100 years and 5 days. Born in Chicago, she died at her home, Lu Shan, Gladstone, NJ. Beloved mother of Henry Luce, III and Peter Paul Luce; mother-inlaw of Leila Hadley Luce and Elizabeth Bardsley Luce; grandmother of Lila Luce, H. Christopher Luce,
 BERMAN-Gertrude Kaplan. 79. Of Palm Beach, FL, died March 30, 1999, after a long illness. Beloved wife for 58 years of Bennett; loving mother of Jeffrey and Helaine; sister of Leonard; and grandmother of Justin and Jordan. She was a long-time resident of Palm Beach, FL. She was a friend to 
 CORRENTE-Linda. Editor, graphic designer, and former member of the Literature Panel of the New York State Council on the Arts, died at home on March 28 to the profound sorrow of her family and that wide circle of friends whose lives she touched. A.B., with honors, 1975, Mount Holyoke Colleg
 FISHER-Ruth V. On March 31, 1999 in Aventura, Fla. at the age of 88. A 1st grade teacher in the NYC public schools for over 30 years, she continued to give generously in service to her community in retirement. Loving mother of daughter, Jody (Joan) Young and son-in-law Larry Young. She was 
 MESCON-Florence on March 27, 1999 in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Howard. Devoted mother of Richard and Michael. Dear mother in law of Miriam. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Jennie, David, Daniel and Hannah. Adored sister of Shirley Leitstein and aunt of Robert, Alex and Bruce Leits
 PROUNIS - Monica Mittelstadt. Age 36. On March 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Othon. Mother of Alexa. Daughter of Charles and Angelica Mittelstadt. Sister of Simone Mailman and Charles Mittelstadt, Jr. Memorial service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55 Street, Wednesday, 
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. On March 31 at the age of 100 years and 5 days. Born in Chicago, she died at her home, Lu Shan, Gladstone, NJ. Beloved mother of Henry Luce, III and Peter Paul Luce; mother-inlaw of Leila Hadley Luce and Elizabeth Bardsley Luce; grandmother of Lila Luce, H. Christopher Luce,
 Lila Hotz Luce Tyng, the first wife of Henry R. Luce, founder of Time Inc., died on Wednesday at her home in Gladstone, N.J., five days after her 100th birthday. Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for sev
 BACCAGLINI-Helen. The Office of the Inspector General, NYC School Construction Authority, records in sorrow the passing of Helen Baccaglini, the beloved mother of our colleague, friend and mentor, Edmond Baccaglini. We extend our deepest sympathies to all members of her family.       
 GRANDE-Sarina, on March 30, 1999. Patron of the arts and opera. Listed in Who's Who of American Women and very active in ItalianAmerican charitable organizations. Beloved wife of the late Frank Grande. Sister of Santa D'Angelo and the late Carmelo and Liborio D'Amato. Aunt of Marie Kallmeye
 GROSHEN-Harriett Bess Burress. On April 1, age 69. Born in Jonesboro, AK, she died in her home in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved daughter, wife, sister, sister-in-law, mother, mother-in-law, aunt, grandmother and friend. All who knew her were touched by her grace, kindness and humor. Memorial servic
 PROUNIS - Monica Mittelstadt. Age 36. On March 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Othon. Mother of Alexa. Daughter of Charles and Angelica Mittelstadt. Sister of Simone Mailman and Charles Mittelstadt, Jr. Memorial service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55 Street, Wednesday, 
 SATNICK-Anna. On April 1st, 1999, at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Loving mother of Roslyn Radler, Elliott Satnick, Robert Satnick and Marsha Bassen. Devoted grandmother of 12 and greatgrandmother of 19. She will be long remembered. Services and interment private.       
 SHAW-Adelaide (nee Miller). On March 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Alan & Linda. Dear aunt of Roger & Fran Nemet and Susan Nemet. She will be deeply missed. Service is on Sunday, at 11:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. On March 31 at the age of 100 years and 5 days. Born in Chicago, she died at her home, Lu Shan, Gladstone, NJ. Beloved mother of Henry Luce, III and Peter Paul Luce; mother-inlaw of Leila Hadley Luce and Elizabeth Bardsley Luce; grandmother of Lila Luce, H. Christopher Luce,
 Vera Tolstoy, a Russian refugee who became a teen-age bride in Czechoslovakia, worked as a hairdresser in Prague, sang Gypsy songs in Paris, sold perfume in New York and spent 25 years with the Voice of America in Washington, died on Monday at her retirement home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. S
 Felicia Gizycka Magruder, an American heiress who was kidnapped as a child by her father, a continental count, died on Feb. 26 at the Regency retirement community in Laramie, Wyo. She was 93 and moved to Laramie from New Canaan, Conn., in 1995. Mrs. Magruder was the former Countess 
 BERMAN-Gertrude. The Univeristy of Haifa family mourns the passing of longtime friend and supporter Gertrude Berman, beloved wife of Bennett and loving mother of Helaine and Jeffrey. Gertrude and Bennett helped to establish the Berman Center for Psychological Counseling and its faculty will
 CAULFIELD - GOELL - Catherine M. ''Cathy'' on April 2nd, of New York. Wife of the late Kermit Goell, sister of James Caulfield, Rosemary Orozco, Margaret Monaghan, Eileen Casey, Maureen Caulfield and the late Eugene Caulfield. Sister-in-law of Patricia Caulfield, Margaret Caulfield, Harry M
 ECKSTEIN-Rebecca S. Died April 1, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved mother of Enid Eckstein and cherished friend of many. She is also survived by granddaughter Kayla Monks and numerous nieces, nephews and cousins. Memorial service details will be forthcoming. In lieu of flowers donations s
 FITZGERALD-Anne M. 92, a 35year Larchmont resident, died April 1 in Rockwall, Texas. She began her fifty-year career in the electric utilities business with Bond and Share in 1922, joining Electric Power and Light Corporation in 1935. She later rose to become corporate secretary and assista
 GALLAGHER-Ellen Lloyd, R.N., Ph.D. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Staff, Employees and Volunteers of Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center and Saint Agnes Hospital, mourn the death of our esteemed colleague and friend, Ellen Gallagher, Vice President of the Florence D'Urso Pavil
 HESSION-Marie N., 84, passed away on April 1, 1999 at her home in Bellport, Long Island, after a long illness. She was the loving wife of Professor Charles H. Hession and devoted mother of four children. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University, she taught economics at Brookly
 HOLIBER-Rose Duberstein, 93, on February 26, in Rockville, MD. Beloved mother of Joel Holiber and Corinne Szabo. Remembered lovingly on her birthday, April 5.       
 LAVINE-Bernice S. Of New York City. In her 91st year. On April 2, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Phillip S. Lavine. Adored mother of Doris Siegel and Jack W. Lavine. Loving grandmother of Richard Meth (Melissa), Stephen Meth (Dorothy), Deborah Fleitz (David), Paul S. Lavine. Loving greatGra
 MAHON-Mae Kane. On Wednesday March 31, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Richard J. Father of Mrs. Cornelius Shields, Jr., Richard J. Mahon, Jr., and William Kane Mahon. Grandmother of Allison Shields, Cornelius Shields, IV, and Maria Hohner Mahon. Reposing at Meserole Funeral Home
 NEUMAN-Halina. On April 2, 1999. Loving mother of the late Jola Hoffman. Cherished grandmother of Kenneth, Marc, David and Estes Hoffman. Great-grandmother of Jay, Leah, Phoebe, Stephen and Michael. Halina was a Holocaust survivor, pianist and teacher. She will be greatly missed. Graveside 
 PRESTON - Barbara Grassi Thorne. April 2, 1999, of Armonk, NY. Wife of the late John N. Thorne, Jr., and Seymour Preston. Mother of Angela Sturgis, Zoe Thorne and Bridget Thorne. Sister of E. H. A. ''Bud'' Grassi. Also survived by five grandsons. Memorial service at St. Matthew's Episcopal 
 PROUNIS - Monica Mittelstadt. Age 36. On March 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Othon. Mother of Alexa. Daughter of Charles and Angelica Mittelstadt. Sister of Simone Mailman and Charles Mittelstadt, Jr. Memorial service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55 Street, Wednesday, 
 RIDDER-Ethelette. Christie's pays tribute to the memory of our esteemed colleague, Tommie Ridder. We mourn her loss & extend our condolences to her family.       
 RIETHOF-Helen. Died March 24, 1999, at age 92. Helen led an inspiring and spirited life. Originally from Prague, she fled with her children in 1938; settled in Pittsburgh, then NYC. Spokesperson for CARE. Executive Secretary, New York Psychoanalytic Institute. Beloved by family and friends.
 SHAW-Adelaide (nee Miller). On March 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Alan & Linda. Dear aunt of Roger & Fran Nemet and Susan Nemet. She will be deeply missed. Service is on Sunday, at 11:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. The Trustees and staff of China Institute are saddened by the death of Lila Tyng, mother of Trustee Emeritus Henry Luce, III, and grandmother of Trustee H. Christopher Luce. We extend our deepest condolences to her entire family. Torrey L. Whitman, Presient       
 WERRIS-Shirley, 83. Died March 5, 1999 in Manhattan. Patron of the New York City Ballet; supporter of Alvin Ailey Dance Company, The Jewish Museum, etc. An avid reader and world traveler, she devoted her life to the arts. Survived by nieces and nephews in California. Shirley was much loved.
 BERK-Francine. It is with deep regret that the Men's Club of Park East Synagogue mourns the death of our beloved Francine Berk, a special lady, an extraordinary friend, the loving wife of our esteemed Board Member and Treasurer Alan, and devoted mother of Michael. She will be truly missed a
 BERK-Francine B. On April 3, 1999. Beloved wife of Alan. Mother of Michael. Daughter of David Brecher, sister of Janet and Susan. Service Monday, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. BERK-Francine. The Board, administration, faculty, staff and parents of the E
 BERMAN-Gertrude. The American Friends of the Soroka Medical Center and the Management of the Soroka Medical Center of the Negev of Beer Sheva, Israel mourn the passing of their esteemed benefactor and friend. Her vision and support of the first comprehensive breast health center of the Nege
 COTLER-Esther. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Howard and Rachelle, Harriet and the late Leslie, Carole and the late Michael. Cherished grandmother of Mitchell and Brenda Riback, Jeffrey and Elise Blankstein, Rod and Rebecca Nenner, Richard and Robyn Cotler, Jennifer Cotler
 HEINRICH-Hilda J. On April 3, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Kurt A. Heinrich, M.D. Loving mother of Jean and Eric Loeb, and Dr. George and Debra Heinrich. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and Marc Heinrich, Carol and William Meyers, Dr. Susan and Andrew Zeitlin. Adoring great-grandmother of
 MAYER-Helen Aberson. Born in Syracuse, NY, June 17, 1907. She was most well-known for being one of the first female hosts of a radio program in 1932 in Syracuse. She graduated from Syracuse University in 1929. In 1938, Helen coauthored with Harold Pearl the well - known children's story, ''
 NACHTIGALL-Walter. Of West Orange, NJ. Beloved husband of Sylvia (nee Fliegel). Loving father of Lisa Nachtigall, Amy and Bruce Nimensky and Jeremy Nachtigall. Dear brother of Gertrud Kissiloff. Adoring grandfather of Erica and Lauren Nimensky. Services Bernheim Apter Goldsticker Suburban F
 PROUNIS - Monica Mittelstadt. Age 36. On March 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Othon. Mother of Alexa. Daughter of Charles and Angelica Mittelstadt. Sister of Simone Mailman and Charles Mittelstadt, Jr. Memorial service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55 Street, Wednesday, 
 REYERSBACH-Dr. Gertrude C. Of Boston. Beloved daughter of the late Paul and Olga Fontheim Reyersbach. Born in Oldenburg, Germany in 1907, Dr. Reyersbach emigrated to the United States in 1937, having completed her training in pediatrics in Germany. After practicing pediatric medicine in New
 SHOENIG-Carol (nee Glickman). 54, of Leawood, KS. Born in New York City. Beloved mother of Jeremy, Liora and Jonathan. Wife of the late Harold. Devoted daughter of Shirley and Cy Glickman. Cherished sister of Barbara (David Kasell), Susan (Dr. Jeffrey Weinberg), Lynn (Eli Moore). Adored aun
 SHURTLEFF-Mary (nee Princess Troubetzkoy). On April 3, 1999. Widow of Otis Lynn Shurtleff, passed away peacefully in her home at The Tolstoy Foundation Center in the presence of her loving stepson, nephews and nieces. Burial at St. Nicholas Russian Orthodox Cemetery in Norwich, CT. In lieu 
 Lucille Lortel, whose pioneering efforts to bring innovative theater and adventurous new playwrights and actors to the American stage earned her the title Queen of Off Broadway, died on Sunday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 98 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport
 BERK-Fran. We will miss your intelligence, wit and warmth. Our grief is only surpassed by the love you had for those surrounding you. Our deepest condolences to her beloved husband, Allan; son, Michael; sisters, Susie and Janet, and her father, David. The Katz Family BERK-Francine. 
 CUMMINGS-Cele. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Gayle Morrow and Jay Cummings. Sister of Paula Grindell. Adored grandmother of Brooke and Walter Edelstein, Jill and Robert Spiegel, Dina and Marc Bean. Cherished great-grandmother of Megan, Casey, Ryan and Georgie. She will 
 DEVLIN-Vivienne K. Most beloved mother, retired teacher, Sacred Heart Academy and Lindenhurst Schools, formerly of Babylon Village, died April 4, 1999 at home surrounded by loved ones. She is survived by her six children, Philip Fergus, Cecily Anne, Akiva Zohar, Sheila Marie, Maureen Elise,
 FRIEDMAN-Muriel of Blauvelt, NY, passed suddenly on April 4, 1999, at the age of 70. She had lived a wonderful, compassionate, and dedicated life. She was a graduate of the Columbia University School of Social Work and had a distinguished career. Her intellect, good humor, caring, and inner
 GILBERT-Lottie. In her 91st year on April 4, 1999. Beloved mother of Carol and Fred, aunt of Bernard and Suzanne Schendler, great aunt of Evan, Ariel and Dana, sister-inlaw of Frances Joseph. Service Tuesday 1:00 pm at ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Ave.       
 GREENE-Doris M. Loving mother of Paul, Marc, Eric their wives Sheryl and Elysa. Grandchildren Daniel, Kali and Leah. April 2, 1999. Known for her caring and humor, her love of nature spurred membership and generosity in a wide range of organizations working to solve today's problems. Born i
 HALLER-Evelyn M. Of Eastchester, N.Y., formerly of Bronxville, N.Y. On March 27, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Peter H. Haller. Survived by her brother John Magnus, her niece Erica Magnus and many friends. She was a noted animal sculptor and member of the Society of Animal Artists. Memoria
 KATZ-Therese Stern. We extend heartfelt condolences to Rose Rauner on the loss of her beloved mother, Therese. Throughout Mrs Katz's lifetime she personified the highest level of tzedekah and chesed. May the loving memories of this special ''woman of valor'' bring consolation to Rose and he
 KAYES-Janet. On April 3, 1999. Beloved mother of Barbara and William, dear friend of many. She will be deeply missed. Respects may be paid at her home, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 1-7PM.       
 LORTEL-Lucille. On April 4, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis Schweitzer. Fondly acknowledged as ''The Queen of Off-Broadway'' and as one of the founders of the modern Off-Broadway theatre movement. Nurturer and benefactor to all who entered the portals of Off-Broadway in the past 50 yea
 MARRUS-Mary. On April 1. Beloved mother of Zipporah Bodek and Naomi Rosen. Wife of the late Jacob Marrus. Devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Treasured by all who knew her.       
 NACHTIGALL - Walter. The Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design deeply mourn the passing of Walter Nachtigall, beloved brother of our esteemed Board Member and colleague, Gertrud Nachtigall Kissiloff. We extend our deepest condolences to her, her husband Bill, their son Ari and the e
 PROUNIS - Monica Mittelstadt. Age 36. On March 31, 1999. Beloved wife of Othon. Mother of Alexa. Daughter of Charles and Angelica Mittelstadt. Sister of Simone Mailman and Charles Mittelstadt, Jr. Memorial service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55 Street, Wednesday, 
 SCHWEITZER - LORTEL - Lucille. The members of the family and friends mourn the passing of beloved Lucille on April 4. The ''Queen of Off-Broadway'' died peacefully at the age of 98, working as the great innovator of avantgarde theatre until the very last. Her dedication and perceptiveness w
 SIMS-Miriam Mottsman. On April 4, 1999. Beloved wife of 62 years of Seymour (Chuck). Devoted mother of Barbara, sister of the late Janet Zuckerman. Services Tuesday, April 6th, 1PM, Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York. SIMS-Miriam. The Congregation of
 TEIJEIRO-Maria. Died April 3, 1999. Teacher in New York City public school system for 42 years. Sister of the late Dolores, Rosalie, Consuelo and Carmen. Survived by her sister Ramona Daniel, nieces Jane and Nina and grand nephews and a grand niece. Interment private.       
 WALDES-Rosalie Gallert Mayer. Born October 27, 1913 in New York City to Minnie Emily Gallert Mayer and Joseph L. B. Mayer. She was a sister to David and Myron (Mickey). She grew up in New York City and Sharon Springs, NY. She attended the Ethical CultureFieldston Schools, graduating from Va
 WITKIN-Shirley. We are deeply saddended by the death of Shirley Witkin. As a philanthropist and a member of a noted philanthropic family, her generosity was essential in creating North Shore University Hospital's Julia and Israel Waldbaum Dialysis Center. She was also an admired member of t
 Dr. Mary D. Ainsworth, a developmental psychologist whose work revolutionized the understanding of the bond between mothers and infants, died in Charlottesville, Va., on March 21. She was 85. Dr. Ainsworth's research contributed significantly to attachment theory, which emphasizes t
 CUMMINGS-Cele . Our heartfelt condolences to Gayle Morrow, her children and grandchildren, and to her brother, Jay Cummings, on the loss of their mother, Cele. May her memory live in their hearts forever. The Shanker Family       
 EGAN-Julia (Burgevin). Of Kingston, New York, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. George Burgevin of Kingston. At Ponte Vedra Beach, on April 3rd. Member of the DAR, Colonial Dames of America, Church Club, Daughters of the Cincinnati, New York Junior League. Survivi
 LEINER-Della F. (nee Berkowitz). on April 4, 1999, age 96. Beloved wife of the late Philip A., dear mother of Dr. Barbara L. Claster and grandmother of Saundra M. Claster, both of NYC. Services and burial will be in Cleveland. Contributions in her memory may be made to The Temple-Tifereth I
 LEVIN-Frances (nee Hollander). Age 91, of Palm Beach, Florida and New Jersey died peacefully on April 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George and beloved mother of the late Richard. Grandmother of Carol Levin and Marjorie (Charles) Van Dercook. Greatgrandmother of Gina, George, Charlotte, 
 LORTEL-Lucille. Lucille's reception in heaven must be deafening. We join the applause. Outer Critics Circle Marjorie Gunner, President LORTEL-Lucille. On behalf of the Theatre faculty and students and the entire community of The Graduate School and University Center of The City Univ
 PROUNIS-Monica. The Rye Country Day School, Class of 1980 expresses its deep sadness at the loss of our classmate, Monica Mittelstadt Prounis. Monica was a true class leader, an unusually bright and influential presence at our school. We will always remember her laughter and energy in the c
 SCHWABE-Ina (Regina) L. Kahn. Died peacefully April 5, 1999, after a long illness. Widow of Erwin S. Schwabe. Stepmother of the late Robert Schwabe. Mourned by her sister Helen D.K. Lessing, her nieces Joan C. Lessing and Pamela R.L. Friedman, her grandniece Elizabeth Lessing Friedman and h
 SUSSMAN-Eleanor. The light has gone out of our lives. Our beloved Ellie has lost her valiant fight with cancer leaving her devoted husband Morton, adoring children, Michael (Lee), Daniel, Yaakov (Shira), loving sister of Charlotte (Herb) Davidson, & grandchildren. She brought the love of mu
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. It is with deep sadness that the Board of Directors and Staff of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth record the passing of Lila Tyng. She was a vital and generous member of our Board for 36 years. She put her skills, charm and love of children to work on behalf of B
 LEVIN-Frances (nee Hollander). Age 91, of Palm Beach, Florida and New Jersey died peacefully on April 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George and beloved mother of the late Richard. Grandmother of Carol Levin and Marjorie (Charles) Van Dercook. Greatgrandmother of Gina, George, Charlotte, 
 MOLOSHOK-Rita Stern. Of New Rochelle, N.Y. Died Monday, April 5, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL at age 72. A funeral service will be held Friday, April 9th, 10AM at Temple Israel, 1000 Pinebrook Blvd, New Rochelle, N.Y. She is survived by her beloved husband Norman, her sons Matthew, William & Thom
 SCHWABE-Ina (Regina) L. Kahn. Died peacefully April 5, 1999, after a long illness. Widow of Erwin S. Schwabe. Stepmother of the late Robert Schwabe. Mourned by her sister Helen D.K. Lessing, her nieces Joan C. Lessing and Pamela R.L. Friedman, her grandniece Elizabeth Lessing Friedman and h
 WITKIN-Shirley. The Board of Directors and staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Shirley Witkin, a major supporter of our mission and member of our Society of Sponsors. Mrs. Witkin left a legacy of caring for all those touched by her extraordinary
 Darlene Geis, an author and editor, died on March 25 in a fire at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. Ms. Geis wrote a number of popular books for young readers. ''The Little Train That Won a Medal'' was published in 1947 and has sold more than three million copies. She was also the 
 Gladys Hasty Carroll, a novelist who wrote about the rural Maine of her childhood, died last Thursday at a hospital in York, Me. She was 94 and lived in South Berwick, Me. Ms. Carroll earned a Pulitzer Prize nomination for her 1933 work, ''As the Earth Turns,'' the story of a long-e
 LIBERMAN-Hilda Zirn, April 5, 1999. Dear wife of Melville Liberman. Loving mother of Stuart Z. Liberman. Loving grandmother of Tracy and Cari-Anne Liberman. Dear sister of Ruth Manshel. She will always remain in our memory with love. Service private.       
 TYNG-Lila Hotz. The staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth join our Board of Directors in expressing our sorrow on the passing of Lila Tyng. She was a Board member from 1949-1985 and is still remembered by staff and Berkshire alumni for her immeasurable
 BALSAM-Ruth Rosalie. On April 9, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Artur. President of the Artur Balsam Foundation for Chamber Music. She will be deeply missed. A gathering of friends will be held Tuesday, April 13, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her 
 HELLER-Ruth S. On April 9, 1999. Of Brooklyn, NY. Age 84. Beloved wife of the late Max Heller. Loving and devoted mother of daughter Matilda Katz & son Aaron Heller. Loving grandmother of ChaimMeir Katz, Shiphra Schorr, ChanaDaphna Shiffer, Chaim-Meyer Heller and Sara Lee Heller. Greatgrand
 HOROWITZ-Miriam B. The Program in Judaic Studies of Yale University mourns the passing of Miriam B. Horowitz, a woman of valor and a generous supporter of this program. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends.       
 HUMPHREYS - Frances Bryan. Died at Meadow Lakes, Heightstown, NJ, on April 8, 1999 at age 89. She was the widow of Gustavus Aldridge Humphreys, a urologist who practiced in New York City and Bronxville. He predeceased her by 21 years. Born in Titusville, PA, on January 11, 1910, she attende
 KRAUSS-Evelyn. Loving mother, loving friend, she meant the world to all of us and we will miss her dearly. She died April 8, 1999, much as she lived-with courage and spirit in the comfort of her home and with her family. Devoted wife of the late George G. Krauss, she is survived by her daug
 BALSAM-Ruth Rosalie. On April 9, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Artur. President of the Artur Balsam Foundation for Chamber Music. She will be deeply missed. A gathering of friends will be held Tuesday, April 13, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her 
 CUMMINGS-Cele. The Officers and Board of Directors of Five Towns Community Chest extend condolences to the family of Board member Gayle Morrow on the passing of her mother, Cele Cummings, whose special spirit will continue to shine through her loving family.       
 DANZIG-Fay. Of Fort Myers, FL on April 8. Beloved wife of the late Irving; mother of Eileen and Howard Danzig of Merrick, NY, and Dr. Michael and Janice Danzig of Fort Myers, FL; loving grandmother to Robin and Ray Piscopio, Allison and Mitchell Reiver, Lori and Andrew Lesser, Mayer and Aar
 DELLA FEMINA-Concetta. On April 10, 1999. Beloved wife of Michael. Mother of Joseph, Jerry and Barbara. Grandmother of Donna, Michael, Danielle, Elisa, Jodi, Mark, Jessie and J.T. Greatgrandmother of Zoey, Zachary, Francesca, Mario Jr., Jack and Gia. Sister of the late Ferdinand. Funeral ma
 FELTENSTEIN-Pat Liveright. On March 24, 1999, in Lake Worth, FL, aged 89. Widow of Milton, mother of John Henry King and Jeffry Howard King, grandmother of Tammy Jeanne, Heather and Jeff, Jr. She was a free spirit-courageous, outspoken, perceptive, exciting, a woman ahead of her time, never
 GOLAND-Norton. We grieve with our daughter-in-law Janis and her family on the loss of her beloved father. Charlotte and Murray Goldberg       
 GOTTHELF-Rhoda J.. On April 5, 1999. Rhoda died after a short illness in Tamarak, FL. She leaves behind her loving son David. People wishing to pay a Shiva call, may do so on Sunday and Monday between 12PM and 9PM at Rhoda's home. A memorial service will be held at 4PM on May 16 at Rhoda's 
 HELLER-Ruth S.. On April 9, 1999. Of Brooklyn, NY. Age 84. Beloved wife of the late Max Heller. Loving and devoted mother of daughter Matilda Katz & son Aaron Heller. Loving grandmother of ChaimMeir Katz, Shiphra Schorr, ChanaDaphna Shiffer, Chaim-Meyer Heller and Sara Lee Heller. Greatgran
 LEVEY-Jane F.. Writer, thinker and teacher. Died at home of acute myelogenous leukemia on Sunday, April 4, 1999 surrounded by loving friends and family. She is survived by her father Marvin Levey of Englewood, N.J., stepmom Suzan Gordon, three sisters, Marcy, Edee and Hilary, and brother Ha
 LIBERMAN-Hilda Zirn., April 5, 1999. Dear wife of Melville Liberman. Loving mother of Stuart Z. Liberman. Loving grandmother of Tracy and Cari-Anne Liberman. Dear sister of Ruth Manshel. She will always remain in our memory with love. Service private.       
 LORTEL-Lucille. The Vera Institute of Justice joins the arts community in celebrating the life of Lucille Lortel, former trustee and widow of our founder, Louis Schweitzer. Her energy and enthusiasm will be missed.       
 MARKMAN-Shirley. Beloved wife and best friend for 54 years of Martin. Loving mother of Barbara and Bruce Spiegel, Marcia and Irwin Siegel and David and Deborah Markman. Adoring grandmother of Erica, Richard, Lilly, Jared and Meredith. Cherished sister of Stanley and Cynthia Gingold, Ruby an
 MARRUS-Mary. On April 1. Beloved mother of Zipporah Bodek and Naomi Rosen. Wife of the late Jacob Marrus. Devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Treasured by all who knew her.       
 ROSEN-Dorothy. Age 94, of heart failure, at her home in Tucson, AZ. Preceded in death by her husband, Theodore. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Augusta and Henry Feinstein, Green Valley, AZ, and Ina and Irwin Rubenstein, Leucadia, CA. Beloved grandmother of Ione and Tony Stiegler, Ira a
 SMITH-Ruth M.. On April 9, 1999, in her 58th year. Beloved wife of Hy. Loving mother of Sarah and Zachary. Devoted grandmother of Tehila, Khava and Shira. Funeral Services, Monday 10A M at ''Gutterman's, Inc.'' 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre. Interment New Montefiore Cemetery.       
 TYNG-Lila Hotz Luce. Grosvenor Neighborhood House would like to express its gratitude for many, many years of loyalty and friendship to our work. Her warm, thoughtful, and consistent contributions as a Board Member from 1946 to 1958 and as a Board Associate from 1958 to 1997 will always be 
 ECKSTEIN-Rebecca S.. A service will be held in memory of Rebecca S. Eckstein, on Sunday, April 18th at 2 PM.,. Leavey Center, Georgetown University Conference Center, 3800 Reservoir Rd, Washington, DC. Donations in her memory can be made to: Hospice of Washington, 3720 Upton Street NW, Wash
 KORNBLIT-Florence L.. Lovingly remembered on the 10th anniversary of her death by her husband, Ralph, her children, Mitchell and Sandra and Peter, her granddaughter, Elizabeth, and her sisters, Estelle Weisberger and Shirley Katz. You are always in our hearts.       
 BALSAM-Ruth Rosalie. On April 9, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Artur. President of the Artur Balsam Foundation for Chamber Music. She will be deeply missed. A gathering of friends will be held Tuesday, April 13, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her 
 DELLA FEMINA-Concetta. On April 10, 1999. Beloved wife of Michael. Mother of Joseph, Jerry and Barbara. Grandmother of Donna, Michael, Danielle, Elisa, Jodi, Mark, Jessie and J.T. Greatgrandmother of Zoey, Zachary, Francesca, Mario Jr., Jack and Gia. Sister of the late Ferdinand. Funeral ma
 EISEMANN-Edith. Dear mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Passed away in her sleep on April 11. She will be missed by her family and friends. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Marion and Paul Hermann Jacqueline and Jeffrey Elsner Corin
 LEVINE-Celia. April 1, 1907-April 10, 1999. Rest in peace, Aunt Celia. Predeceased by her adored husband, Louis Levine; devoted daughter of the late Esther and Benjamin Schreiber; loving sister of Sidney Schreiber of Chicago, the late Shirley Seiler and Gladys Braun of New York; caring aunt
 LEVITZ-WERTLIEB-Lillian. Age 80. Founder of Colonial Terrace, a well-known social catering establishment, died on April 10, 1999, in Delray Beach, FL. Lillian is survived by her husband Jacob Wertlieb, and her children Sheila Drogy, Jack Levitz, Rosanne Elkins, and Norman Levitz; Michael an
 RIZZUTO-Josephine (Vasselli). 92. Born in Newark, NJ, on August 28, 1906. One of eleven children, she spent most of her life in Brooklyn, NY, where she married in 1927 and raised her three children. She died April 11, 1999, at the Carmel Richmond Nursing Home in Staten Island, after a long 
 SCHMUKLER - Sylvia. Devoted wife of the late Charles. Beloved mother of William and Janet Henry and Susan Nussbaum. Cherished grandmother of Jodi and Charles Elder, Lawrence Henry, Lisa and Scott Henry, Allison and Brad Kaylor, Peter Nussbaum and Leana Nussbaum. Dear greatgrandmother of Jac
 Mary Jane Rathbun, who became known as the grandmotherly Brownie Mary who handed out brownies laced with high-grade marijuana to sick people to relieve their pain and nausea, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 77 and lived in San Francisco. Ms. Rathbun campaign
 Estelle Sapir, a Holocaust survivor who won a rare recovery of the family funds she had sought for half a century from a Swiss bank, died on Tuesday at her home in Far Rockaway, Queens. She was 73. Miss Sapir, who had been in poor health for some time, died of cardiac arrest, her ni
 Mary Lutyens, a well-born English  biographer and novelist who was applauded by critics on both sides of the Atlantic, died on April 9 in London. She was 90 and lived in London and the English county of Dorset. Miss Lutyens (pronounced LUTCH-ens) was a daughter of Sir Edwin Landseer
 Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin. Sh
 Grace Zia Chu, who introduced a generation of Americans to Chinese cuisine though her cooking classes in Manhattan and her landmark book ''The Pleasures of Chinese Cooking,'' died Thursday at a nursing home in Columbus, Ohio. She was 99. In an era when most Americans believed that c
 BAUM-Ruth. The Board of Directors, staff, children and families of Northside Center for Child Development, Inc. note with great sadness the passing of our longtime friend and Board member, Ruth Baum. Ruth became part of the Northside family over 30 years ago and throughout that time fervent
 COCKCROFT-Eva S. Muralist, painter and writer, with more than thirty murals in New York, New Jersey, California, Nicaragua and Berlin, died on April 1, in Los Angeles, of breast cancer, at age 62. The co-author of ''Towards a People's Art,'' her writing also appeared in ''Art Forum'' and ''
 COOPER-Frieda (Nee Wekselblatt). On April 17, 1999. One day before her 87th birthday. Devoted wife of the late Benjamin, loving mother of Bob and Sharon Cooper, Ira and Marsha Cooper and Nancy and Paul Lewittes. Dear grandmother and great-grandmother to Joel, Brian and Ruth, Kevin and Robin
 DIANA-Carol York. On April 17, 1999 at the age of 53. Beloved wife of Michael; loving mother of Elisabeth and Weldon; dear sister of Dr. Harold York. Interment private. Memorial Mass was held. Contributions in her memory may be made to Central Park Conservancy, 14 E. 60 St, NY, NY 10021.   
 LOPATE-Frances. Died Saturday, April 17, 1999, at 6:45 P.M., of a massive heart attack at age 81. Beloved mother, actress, and in all respects a trouper. Born Frances Berlow, orphaned at 11, facing hardships in her Depression youth, she was married young to Albert Lopate and raised four chi
 MISTRETTA-Frances V. Formerly of Murray Hill, died at 2:45PM on April 2, 1999 of complications brought about by a stroke at Good Samaritan Nursing Home's Alzheimer Unit in Jasper, IN, where she had resided since 1996. She was born in Brooklyn on August 10, 1911 to Francesco and Christina (A
 PINCUS-Pearl Plesser (Schreiber). A woman of valor. Beloved mother of Zachary and Arlene Plesser, Tully and Michele Plesser; grandmother of Lauren and Paul Haskin, and Stuart Plesser; greatgrandmother of Danielle and Max Haskin. Funeral Tuesday, April 20, at 2:30PM, Boulevard Chapels, 1450 
 SIBLEY-Elvira T. At her home in Brownfield, Maine, April 16, Elvira Throwbridge Sibley aged 86 years. Beloved widow of Retired Major General Alden K. Sibley who died February 18, 1999. A memorial service for both will be held at 2:30, Saturday, May 1, 1999 at the Brownfield Maine Community 
 BITTKER-Evelyn Brown, 91. Died April 20, 1999 at her home in Las Vegas. Born in New York City, she spent many years as Head of Reservations at the Grossinger Hotel in Ferndale, N.Y. Several years after her marriage to Arthur Bittker, they bought property in Tucson and started the El Dorado 
 BLOOM-Frances. Beloved wife of the late Hyman Bloom. Devoted mother of Robert and Stephen. Loving mother-in-law of Felicia and Dale. Cherished grandmother of Scott and Cindy, Jodie and Mark, Steven, and Joshua; and great-grandmother of Judith Rose. She will be sorely missed, and remain in o
 DIANA-Carol York. The Board of the Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the loss of a committed member and devoted educator on the Children's Education Committee. We will miss her joyous enthusiasm in sharing her love and knowledge of Central Park with students. Our sinc
 KAMINSKY-Frances. Of New York City, April 19, 1999. ''Mother and wife extraordinaire.'' She touched the lives and hearts of all those whom she came in contact with. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam, Wednesday 12:15PM. In lieu of flowers donations to the American Cancer 
 SEGAL-Sarah. On April 20 at the age of 99. Beloved mother of Elaine Heffner, mother-in-law of Richard. Devoted grandmother to Daniel and Andrew Heffner and great grandmother to Alexander, Jeremy & Zachary. Loving sister of Dr. Samuel Dinin. ''Her ways are pleasant ways and all her paths pea
 Baroness Batsheva de Rothschild, a patron of Martha Graham and of modern dance in Israel, died on Tuesday at her home in Tel Aviv. She was 84. The granddaughter of Baron James de Rothschild, the founder of the French branch of the Rothschild banking family, Baroness de Rothschild be
 Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, who transformed it from a tired magazine into a viable voice in fashion while she battled ovarian cancer and raised awareness of the disease, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 51 and had homes in Manhatt
 CUSHING-Mary Margaret (Loring), of Beverly Farms, Massachusetts, on April 20, 1999. Wife of the late Boston photographer George M. Cushing. She is survived by her four children: Margaret C. Cushing of New York City, George L. Cushing of Beverly Farms, Edward B. Cushing of Ipswich & John D. 
 GEORGESCU-Maria. Of Nutley, NJ formerly of Queens on April 21, 1999, mother of Valeria Andrusca, grandmother of Eric. She was an adjunct professor of Dental Materials at Kriser Dental Center of N.Y.U. for 12 years. Visiting at S.W. Brown & Son Funeral Home, 267 Centre St., Nutley, NJ Friday
 LAMULA-Claire, 81, widow of Assemblyman John J. Lamula, passed away April 20, 1999. An NYC native, she resided in Connecticut and later Maryland. She was an elegant and honorable lady who established her own insurance agency, assisted Mr. Lamula in his brokerage firm and volunteered at CASA
 LEVY-Mollie (nee Kahn), on April 21st, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jacques M. Levy. Loving mother of Edna Doigan (Paul) of Schenectady, NY, Vivian Pollock (Elliott) of Chevy Chase, MD and Joel H. Levy (Felecia) of Chevy Chase, MD. Also survived by 9 devoted grandchildren and 16 adored gr
 ROCKEFELLER - Mary Clark. April 21st. Beloved mother of Rodman, Ann, Steven, Mary and the late Michael C. Rockefeller, loving grandmother to 15 grandchildren and 23 great grandchildren, she was a tireless supporter of nursing education and the nursing profession. The example of her life and
 SILBERT-Mollie. Devoted wife of the late Herbert. Loving mother of Gerald, Robert, Ramie and Phyllis. Adoring grandmother of Terry, Joanne and Donna. Proud greatgrandmother of Matthew, Bennett & Steven. Passed into her eternal sleep in her 96th year on April 21, 1999. Graveside service.    
 TILBERIS-Elizabeth (Liz). On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, Inc. (OCRF), we deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend and President, Liz Tilberis. Liz Tilberis was an extraordinary woman and a visionary leader. Her commitment and dedicat
 ZELTER-Nicole. On April 21, 1999. Loving daughter of Vivian and James and sister of Elizabeth. She leaves four wonderful grandparents and numerous caring aunts, uncles and cousins. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory to The Nicole Zelter Fund Greater New York March of Dimes, 233 Park
 AUERBACH-Ella. The Board and staff of Selfhelp Community Services note with sorrow the passing of a devoted member of our community. One of the first professionals employed by the agency, she brought an understanding of the needs of new arrivals to this country and a willingness to help the
 BERGLAS-Roslyn (nee Roberts). Of Forest Hills, NY on April 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Frank, Judi, Gaye and Kenneth. Loved by her grandchildren Brett, Allison, Austin and Diane. Adoring greatgrandmother of Oliver, and beloved sister of Sidney. Funeral servi
 BRYAN-Pauline (Polly). April 12, 1999, in La Jolla, CA. Descendant of John Alden. From early life in Joplin, MO. to school in the East: Vassar (AB 1933), Columbia (MA 1935). Teacher, editor, proofreader (American Heritage Dictionary, 1969), writer. On the staff of British Information Servic
 DAMRAU-June Hirshfield. On April 23, 1999 at age 92. Lover of animals, piano teacher and composer. Daughter of Henrietta and Morris Hirshfield (the noted American primitive painter). She is survived by her nephew Robert Dennis Rentzer, and great-nephew Spencer Schaefer and great-niece Brend
 KOENIG-Ann (nee Klein). On April 23, 1999. Beloved mother of George Koenig & the late Steven Koenig. Dear sister of Elaine Botterman. Beloved aunt and greataunt. A long-time resident of Bayonne, NJ. Former class president at New York University. She was loved by all. Services Baron Hirsch C
 SHAMSI-Haider H., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Department of Anesthesiology, The Mount Sinai Medical Center, extends heartfelt sympathy to their colleague and friend, Adiba Shamsi, M. D., and to her family on the death of her beloved husband, Haider Shamsi, M.D.       
 SULLIVAN - Adele Woodhouse Erb. Formerly of Scarsdale, New York. Died April 22, 1999. Past President General NSDAR. Survived by her daughter Nancy E. Thorne, two granddaughters, Elizabeth T. Gillespie and Susan T. Hackel, two great-grandchildren, Devon T. Gillespie and Katarina T. Hackel an
 TILBERIS-Elizabeth. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Elizabeth Tilberis. She will be sorely missed. Alfredo Canessa and MALO       
 TILBERIS-Liz. We are heartbroken at the loss of our second mother. Every day was filled with the gift of laughter, friendship and the warmth of her indelible spirit which will live on in the lives of all who knew her. We will love and miss her always and extend our deepest sympathies to And
 YATES-Elizabeth Hipple, on April 16, 1999. A concert pianist residing in Riverside, CT. Formerly of Jenkintown, PA and New York City. Predeceased by her husband, playwright and journalist, Ray Baker Yates. The first piano soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra at the White House. Mrs.
 FELDMAN-Robin Miller. The family of the late Robin Feldman wish to thank all of our friends and relatives for the many expressions of condolence in loving memory of our beloved mother, daughter, sister and grandmother. She was a true and devoted friend to many with exceptional character. Th
 BERLEY-Isabel. The Board of Trustees, clergy, staff and congregation of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue mourn the passing of our beloved Honorary Trustee and cherished member, Isabel Berley. We lovingly remember her with gratitude for her years of devoted service. Our deepest sympathy to he
 DEUTSCH-Gertrude R. Died Friday, April 23, 1999 at Leisure Park Center, Lakewood, NJ. She was 87. She, along with her late husband, Samuel, owned Peterson's Sunset Cabin in Lakewood and were proprietors of numerous hotels in Lakewood, the Catskills, and Miami Beach. She is survived by three
 GILBERT-Margaret R. Age 77. On April 25, 1999. Devoted wife of John. Loving mother of Margot and mother-in-law to Allan Frank. Funeral service to be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, today, Monday, 1:30 PM. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to your favo
 GOLD-Susan H., age 63 of Tenafly, NJ. A learning disabilities consultant, on Sunday, April 25, 1999. Survived by her children Lisa, Howard and Reva; sister Alice Furst and granddaughter Hallie. Alumna of Brandeis, Columbia Teacher's College. Services are Tuesday, 10 AM, at Robert Schoem's M
 GRAHAM-Sally P. Age 50. On April 24, 1999. Beloved daughter of Howard and the late Helen. Loving sister of Susan Hurley of Denville, NJ, and Sheilah Markham of Commerce, MI. Devoted aunt and great-aunt with many loving and caring friends. Sally was a fun loving and beautiful person. Friends
 LANGER-Ruth. At the age of 74. Beloved wife of the late Isaac. Devoted mother of Marcelle Langer Sheehan, the late Gabe and the late Esther. Cherished grandmother of Spencer and Melinda Sheehan and Elaine Langer. She was a Holocaust survivor from the Lodz ghetto and her strength and memory 
 LEVY-Julia C. On April 24, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Murray H. Beloved sister, aunt and greataunt. She will always be remembered.       
 MANDELL-Dennis G. Her body's gone to rust but her spirit prevails. We watch the formations fly overhead by the sea. Blues, humor, grace. You are with us. Marina Malchin       
 ROTHSTEIN-Louise C. Of Brooklyn, NY, died an untimely death in Tampa, FL, on April 24, 1999. Survived by her mother Rose Rothstein, sister and brother-in-law Jane and Jonathan Bell, nephews and niece Stephen, Marc and Jennifer; daughter of the late Ira Rothstein. Served as Deputy Director o
 CHU-Grace. The Trustees and staff of China Institute are saddened by the death of Grace Chu, first instructor of Chinese cooking at China Institute and a founding member of China Institute Women's Association. We are grateful for her many contributions during her long association with China
 O'HARE-Anne ''Nancy'', 86. Of Newburgh passed away April 24, 1999. She was the wife of Stephen P. O'Hare. She is survived by her Husband Stephen, sons William of LaGrangeville, Stephen P. Jr. of Granada Hills, CA., Fintan O'Hare of White Plains, Rev. Daniel O'Hare of Maybrook, Gerard O'Hare
 SACKS-Hortense S., 96, on April 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Robert Sacks. She is survived by her son, Robert, and daughter, Elinor Prockop; by her niece, Cornelia Marwell, grandchildren Michael Sacks, Susan Prockop and David Prockop; and by two great granddaughters. A memorial se
 Patricia Bowman, a founding member of American Ballet Theater, a ballerina of the Radio City Music Hall and the first American ballerina to win critical acclaim and wide popularity as a classical and a musical-theater dancer, died on March 18 in Las Vegas, Nev., her home since 1977. She was
 Dr. Rose Payne, whose research into tissue compatibility at Stanford University over more than three decades helped advance the field of organ transplants, died on April 18 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 89 and had been living in Cupertino, Calif.        
 Lois Borwick Herman Rivkin, the founder and president of an organization linking business organizations and cultural institutions to New York City public schools, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 69. Mrs. Rivkin had lymphoma for the last six and a h
 DILLMEIER-Hazel R. Of Garden City, L.I., and Westhampton Beach passed away on April 27, 1999. Graduate of Florida College for Women now Florida State also graduate degrees from Columbia and Stanford in physical therapy. Beloved wife of William E. Dillmeier and widow of the late Basil O'Conn
 GOLDSCHMIDT - Florence G. Born in Brooklyn, New York on July 15, 1918 passed away in Dallas, Texas on April 26, 1999. She is survived by her loving husband, Arthur; daughter and son-in-law Karen and Norman Lerner; daughter and son-in-law Joan and Dr. Alan Weinstock; and grandchildren Rachel
 LIPSCOMB-Caroline Knowlton of Charleston, SC died April 26, 1999 at her residence. Funeral services will be held at 10:00 AM, Friday, April 30th, 1999 in St. Michael's Episcopal Church in Charleston. Burial directed by J. Henry Stuhr, Inc. will be in Elmwood Cemetery, Columbia, SC. She is s
 RIVKIN-Lois Herman. The family of Lois Rivkin mourns the loss on April 27, of their beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister, after a valiant fight against lymphoma. Her creation of Friends of the Public Schools exemplified her warmth, energy, optimism & love of New York City. A memoria
 SHORE-Carol Tilles. Age 77. Loving wife and better half of Allan for 58 years; beloved mother of Allan Shore Jr., William Shore, and Marylu Simon & devoted motherin-law of Jill Shore; cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Beth, Chris, Michael and Julie; greatgrandmother of three and sister of 
 THROOP-Barbara Williams. Formerly of Lawrence, NY, beloved wife of the late Enos Thompson Throop, IV, daughter of Thomas Resolved Williams, died on April 26, 1999 in St. Michaels, MD. Mrs. Throop graduated from St. Timothy's School in 1931. An avid squash player, she represented the United 
 DeFLORIO-Jeann. ''A.J.'' (Carballo), April 26, 1999, predeceased by her husband, Richard Carballo; beloved sister of Diane and Richard Dugan. Jeann was one of the top five make-up artists in New York City. A service will be celebrated in New York City at a later date, time to be announced. 
 DILLMEIER-Hazel R. Of Garden City, L.I., and Westhampton Beach passed away on April 27, 1999. Graduate of Florida College for Women now Florida State also graduate degrees from Columbia and Stanford in physical therapy. Beloved wife of William E. Dillmeier and widow of the late Basil O'Conn
 GOLDSCHMIDT - Florence G. Born in Brooklyn, New York on July 15, 1918 passed away in Dallas, Texas on April 26, 1999. She is survived by her loving husband, Arthur; daughter and son-in-law Karen and Norman Lerner; daughter and son-in-law Joan and Dr. Alan Weinstock; and grandchildren Rachel
 GOLUB-Roslyn. On April 28, 1999. Loving friend and dear cousin. She will always be remembered. Service Friday, 11:30 AM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn (near Ave. V).       
 LIPSCOMB-Caroline Knowlton. Of Charleston, SC died April 26, 1999 at her residence. Funeral services will be held at 10:00 AM, Friday, April 30th, 1999 in St. Michael's Episcopal Church in Charleston. Burial directed by J. Henry Stuhr, Inc. will be in Elmwood Cemetery, Columbia, SC. She is 
 RIVKIN-Lois Herman. The family of Lois Rivkin mourns the loss on April 27, of their beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister, after a valiant fight against lymphoma. Her creation of Friends of the Public Schools exemplified her warmth, energy, optimism & love of New York City. A memoria
 SHORE-Carol Tilles. Age 77. Loving wife and better half of Allan for 58 years; beloved mother of Allan Shore Jr., William Shore, and Marylu Simon & devoted motherin-law of Jill Shore; cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Beth, Chris, Michael and Julie; greatgrandmother of three and sister of 
 THROOP-Barbara Williams. Formerly of Lawrence, NY, beloved wife of the late Enos Thompson Throop IV, daughter of Thomas Resolved Williams, died on April 26, 1999 in St. Michaels, MD. Mrs. Throop graduated from St. Timothy's School in 1931. An avid squash player, she represented the United S
 Melba Liston, a trombonist and arranger who worked with some of the best bands in jazz, died on Friday after a series of strokes, said a friend, the pianist Randy Weston. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Liston is best known for her collaborations with Mr. Weston, including 
 BECKERMAN-Bessie. Age 93. On April 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Henry; dear mother of Ruth (Robert) Goldschlager and Nancy (the late Stuart) Leavitt; dear grandmother and great-grandmother. Past president and life member of Hadassah to whom contributions in her memory may be made or t
 KLEIN-Estelle Kosches, 99 years of age. At her home in Manhattan on April 29, 1999. Devoted wife for 73 years of the late George Washington Klein. Survived by eight nieces and nephews; 13 grandnieces and nephews; and nine great-grand-nieces and nephews. Services will be held on Sunday, May 
 RIVKIN-Lois Herman. The family of Lois Rivkin mourns the loss on April 27, of their beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister, after a valiant fight against lymphoma. Her creation of Friends of the Public Schools exemplified her warmth, energy, optimism & love of New York City. A memoria
 SHAKLEY-Delphine M. On April 28, 1999. Beloved wife of Mark, mother of Alexander, Jonathan, Oliver, Jennifer, and Jacob. Daughter of Jane and the late James McCosker, sister of Maureen, Timothy and Muriel. Funeral mass at St Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave at 84 St, Saturday, 12 Noon. Inte
 THROOP-Barbara Williams. Formerly of Lawrence, NY, beloved wife of the late Enos Thompson Throop IV, daughter of Thomas Resolved Williams, died on April 26, 1999 in St. Michaels, MD. Mrs. Throop graduated from St. Timothy's School in 1931. An avid squash player, she represented the United S
 WILSON-Marilyn Sword. Of Smyrna, DE, died on Thursday, April 29. She was 73. She was born September 10, 1925, the daughter of the late William Oscar and Viola Schad Sword. She attended St. Ann's Academy in Wilkes-Barre, PA; Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, PA; and New York University. She receiv
