 Carol Rothschild Noyes, a supporter of civic and environmental causes, died on April 18 at her home in Laurel Hollow, N.Y. She was 88. Her family announced the death. Mrs. Noyes sat on the boards of the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Center, 
 Evelyn Annenberg Jaffe Hall, a New York arts patron for 50 years and a supporter of medical institutions, died on April 22 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 93 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I. Mrs. Hall, a sister of the late publisher 
 DRUYAN--Pearl A. (nee Goldsmith) born September 15th, 1919 in Brooklyn, NY died April 28th, 2005 at home in Ithaca, NY surrounded by love. Wife of Harry for 65 years, mother of Les (Vicky Rojas), Ann (the late Carl Sagan), grandmother of Larry (Gina), the late Erica, Sasha and Sam Sagan, st
 HERMA--Janice. 63, of Lighthouse Point, Florida, formerly of Hempstead, New York passed away on Friday, April 29, 2005 at Hospice by the Sea Care Center. Janice's life was full of friends and family. She was a graduate of C.W. Post College on Long Island. For ten years she was a Media Speci
 LANDES--Margot, on April 29, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arnold. Dear friend to many who will deeply miss her. Services Monday, May 2, 10 AM, at Mt. Eden Cemetery, Valhalla, NY, 914-769-0603.       
 LEVINSON--Marion (Mickey). 83. Died April 29, 2005. Survived by her loving husband Archie, sons David and wife Sylvia, and Dr. Franklin and wife Eileen, five grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. Funeral services 12:30PM Monday, May 2nd, Weinstein-Garlick-Kirschenbaum Chapels, 1153 C
 PLATT--Lynne. Loving wife of Billy and beloved mother Jamie, Gregory and David, died Wednesday, April 26, 2005. She was 60 years old. Lynne will be dearly missed by sisters Stephanie and Robin, siblings-in-law Mitchell, Diane and Gale, cousins, nieces, nephews, friends and the light of her 
 POTTER--Lillian Noble. On April 22, 2005 in Cambridge, NY, at 71 after a long illness. Her husband, Stephen Potter, died in 1995. She was educated at the NightingaleBamford and Miss Porter's schools and Wheelock College. She taught in Levittown, PA, and at Nightingale-Bamford and the Albany
 ROSENTHAL--Freda. Died April 28, in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Irving R. Devoted mother of Dr. and Mrs. Stuart Rosenthal and Judge and Mrs. Louis Rosenthal. Loving grandmother of Dr. Seth Rosenthal, Suzanne (Ryan) Brackley, Mr. and Mrs. John Hoffman, Joshua Rosenthal and Justin
 ROTH--Jolana. Survivor of Auschwitz and Dachau passed away on April 23. Beloved wife of Melvin and mother to Veronica and Jeffrey, her death leaves one less witness to the Shoah. She overcame tremendous odds to excel as an artisan and a businesswoman.       
 RUBY--Helen, 89 of Tamarac, Florida died on April 26th. Wife of the late Nathan Ruby, MD. Beloved mother of Joan (Arthur) Berkow and Alice (Oded) Meltzer and their families. She will be sorely missed.       
 SASSON - BITTOUN -- Zmira (Zimmie). Died on April 10 in Paris from Cancer. She worked with retail icons and was blissfully married to Charles. Donations: Israel Cancer Association, P.O. Box 437, Givataym, 53100 Israel.       
 BREED--Helen S., 94, on April 16, 2005, after a long illness. Widow of the late William C. Breed, Jr., mother of Helen S. Chinitz, Selina S. Croll and the late Janet S. Croll, grandmother of Clyde and Benjamin Chinitz, great-grandmother of Miles and Olivia Chinitz. A descendant of Peter Stu
 HERMA--Janice. 63, of Lighthouse Point, Florida, formerly of Hempstead, New York passed away on Friday, April 29, 2005 at Hospice by the Sea Care Center. Janice's life was full of friends and family. She was a graduate of C.W. Post College on Long Island. For ten years she was a Media Speci
 ADOLPHUS--Elena (nee Fox Watnik). Born in Philadelphia in 1913, died in New York City May 1, 2005. Married Milton Adolphus, then affiliated with Curtis Institute. The couple was active in the arts and progressive causes in New York in the 1930s. Mr. Adolplus, a Founding Member of the Americ
 AYBAR--Ivonne. The family of Ivonne de Lepervanche Aybar sadly announce her peaceful death, in her home, in her sleep, in the early morning of Saturday, April 30. Mrs. Aybar, born June 7, 1919, in Santo Domingo of ancestry both Spanish and French, was for many years in the 1940s singles, do
 COLESON--Cantor Renee Wallach. Beloved sister, aunt, great-aunt, Cantor, teacher and friend. Proudly served North Shore Synagogue, Syosset, N.Y. for 14 years. Survived by her siblings Peter and Silvia and their spouses Toby and Norm. Devoted aunt to Lori, David, Daniel, Melissa and Michelle
 CUTTLER--Estelle. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 FALK--Claire Hamrah, widow of the late Sheldon Falk, died on Saturday, April 30, 2005 at her home in Cheshire, CT. Daughter of the late Abdullah and Rose Monseur Hamrah, she is survived by her sister, Mary Hamrah of Tenafly, NJ; two brothers, George Hamrah of Southington, CT and Albert Hamr
 HALL--Evelyn. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Evelyn A.J. Hall. Over many years, Mrs. Hall was a stalwart supporter of the Center, primarily concerned that patients be able to receive the most sophisticated, most eff
 HANFT--Florence, 91, of Mount Vernon, died on April 28, 2005. Florence's life was filled with family and friends. Florence retired in 1979 as a Deputy New York City Clerk with 40 years service to the residents of the Bronx. In retirement, Florence actively served her Temple and the Jewish c
 HOLZMAN--Selma M. (nee Katzman). May 1, 2005. Wife of the late Abraham. Mother of Judy (Ed) Shorr & Alexander Holzman. Sister of Pearl Kent & Elinor Medoff. Grandmother of Jeremy Shorr and Lauren Shorr. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services Tuesday, 10:30 AM precisely, Golds
 KEENHOLTZ--Adele (Karp) formerly of Port Washington on April 30th. Survived by her husband, Samuel Keenholtz, her children, Karen Newton and Dr. Steven Keenholtz and six grandchildren. Graveside services were held at Wellwood Cemetery, West Babylon. Shiva at home of Karen Newton, Port Washi
 ROBERTSON--Margaret F. ''Gretchen'', 77, died on April 30th 2005. Wife of Alan Robertson of Chatham, NJ. Also surviving are three children David, Karen, and John. She was born in New York City, NY.       
 TRAVIS--Sedel. Garfunkel, Wild & Travis, P.C. mourns the passing of our friend, Sedel Travis, mother of our founding partner, Norton L. Travis. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. May their cherished memories help to lighten their h
 WEINSTEIN--Hilda Haberman nee Kugel passed away in her 100th year on April 30th. Born in Bayonne, New Jersey on October 6th, 1905, Hilda attended Brooklyn Girl's High School and Smith College. She was married to Jules Haberman until his death in 1947. In 1950 she married Irving Weinstein, w
 BENNETT -- Marcia Marx. Age 74, internationally renowned artist, passed away on May 3 in her beloved New York City. She was born in Newark, NJ and attended Yale University, School of Fine Arts. Most recently, she was given a ''one woman show'' at the Houston Holocaust Museum. She will be mi
 GRIMM--Elaine R., Dr., of New York City, died on April 28th. She was a psychologist and a graduate of Barnard College, Yale University and Columbia University. A memorial service will be held at the Community Church, 40 E. 35th Street on May 12th at 3:00 PM. Memorial donations may be made t
 LEVY--Lauren A., 23, of Englewood, NJ, on May 3, 2005. A graduate from Horace Mann class of 1999, and Lehigh University class of 2003, studying for Master's Degree in Accounting at Fairleigh Dickinson University. Survived by her parents Wendy and Larry A. Levy of Englewood, NJ, and grandmot
 MOSKOWITZ--Roslyn, 86, in Manhattan, on May 1, 2005. An independent spirit who enjoyed life, she loved theater, movies, good scotch, fine restaurants, travel, crossword puzzles and the Mets, walking the streets of New York. She will be deeply missed by her beloved nephews and their families
 SLAVITT--Anne, 87, of NYC, died April 29 after a long illness. Predeceased by her husband, Alexander, and her beloved feline companions, Princess, Petey and Big Foot. Anne hated war and loved the Adlai Stevenson tradition in the Democratic Party. Contributions in her name can be made to the
 Raisa Struchkova, one of the Soviet Union's leading ballerinas in the Bolshoi Ballet when that company first took audiences abroad by storm in the 1950's and 60's, died in Moscow on Monday, the Bolshoi Theater announced. She was 79 and lived in Moscow. Ms. Struchkova was highly prai
 BREED--Helen S., 94, on April 16, 2005, after a long illness. Widow of the late William C. Breed, Jr., mother of Helen S. Chinitz, Selina S. Croll and the late Janet S. Croll, grandmother of Clyde and Benjamin Chinitz, great-grandmother of Miles and Olivia Chinitz. A descendant of Peter Stu
 KUNSBERG--Marcella. Died peacefully on May 2, 2005, at the age of 89 at her home in Los Angeles. Predeceased by her husband Stanley, she is survived by her four children Carolyn Gore, Bette Dee Goldberg, Sandra Kunsberg Rosenfield and Philip Kunsberg, by her ten grandchildren and by her six
 LEVY--Lauren A., 23, of Englewood, NJ, on May 3, 2005. A graduate from Horace Mann class of 1999, and Lehigh University class of 2003, studying for Master's Degree in Accounting at Fairleigh at Dickinson University. Survived by her parents Wendy and Larry A. Levy of Englewood, NJ, and grand
 MARX--Marcia. The officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Marcia Marx. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 PLATT--Deborah K. Adoring wife, mother and grandmother, died peacefully at home in her sleep on May 3, 2005. Interment will be in Vermont on Friday, May 6th. Her will to live is a testament to the human spirit.       
 ROTH--Johanna, a Hartsdale NY, resident, died May 3, 2005. She was 84. Born in Vienna, Austria on January 15, 1921, to Frederick and Emma Saffir. During W.W.II she served in the British Fire Service. In 1964 she married Eugene Frederick Roth in Beverly Hills, CA. He predeceases her. Survivo
 SAVINO--Barbara Siris, nee Wacht, of Highland Beach, FL died May 4, 2005. Predeceased by Herbert Siris and Peter Savino, she is survived by three daughters, Ellen, Robin & Hilary and five grandchildren. In her memory, donations may be made to the UJA-Federation, or the Jewish Guild for the 
 WINTON--Rebecca Adinoff, former Director of Early Childhood Education for the New York City Public Schools, died on May 3, 2005. She was predeceased in 1994 by her husband, James J. Winton. Mrs. Winton is survived by her sister, Mrs. Selma A. Mennis, and her husband, Dr. Edmund A. Mennis, o
 BLANDI - DASHNAW -- Susan on May 5, 2005 ended her battle with cancer. She is survived by her mother Virginia Blandi, sister Marian White, brother-in-law Don White and two nephews Gregory and John Barbee. Service Tuesday 3PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers the
 FARLEY--Irene Daly, 82, on Tuesday, May 3, 2005 at her home in Princeton, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Edward R. Farley, Jr., and mother of the late Thomas Joyce Farley. She is survived by two daughters, Nancy Farley Jarrell and Jane Farley von Oehsen, her son-in-law Thomas von Oehsen, a so
 LEVY--Lauren A., 23, of Englewood, N,J., on May 3, 2005. A graduate of Horace Mann class of 1999, and Lehigh University class of 2003, studying for Master's Degree in Accounting at Fairleigh Dickinson University. Survived by her parents Wendy and Larry A. Levy of Englewood, N.J., and grandm
 ORATZ -- Rosalyn, passed away peacefully on May 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Murray and cherished mother of Ruth and Mary. Adored grandmother of Harrison and Bennett. Dear sister, aunt and friend. She will be greatly missed. Funeral services private. The family will receive friends at the Regen
 BLANDI - DASHNAW -- Susan on May 5, 2005 ended her battle with cancer. She is survived by her mother Virginia Blandi, sister Marian White, brother-in-law Don White and two nephews Gregory and John Barbee. Service Tuesday 3PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers the
 LEVY--Lauren A. The Horace Mann School is deeply saddened by the tragic passing of a cherished and beloved alumna, Lauren Levy '99. Her sense of humor, warmth and gentle spirit filled the halls of HM. Lauren's courage and devotion to family and friends will remain with us forever. Our heart
 MURPHY--Helen Marts, 48, died May 4, 2005 in Montclair. Survived by husband Paul and children Keith and Julia. A Cornell graduate and IT Manager, she was a painter, sculptor and amateur musician. She enjoyed ballet, theater, reading and travel. A Memorial service to held at a later date. In
 ORATZ -- Rosalyn, passed away peacefully on May 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Murray and cherished mother of Ruth and Mary. Adored grandmother of Harrison and Bennett. Dear sister, aunt and friend. She will be greatly missed. Funeral services private. The family will receive friends at the Regen
 EARLY--Virginia B. Wife of Albert D. Early, on May 4, 2005. Originally of New Vernon, NJ, she lived in Sarasota, FL since 1980. She is survived by a son, A. Blakeman Early, three grandchildren: Alexandra B. Early, G. Blake Hargrave, Megan B. McIntyre; and three great-grandchildren; Mac McIn
 GRIMM--Elaine, PhD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of Elaine Grimm, PhD. An esteemed graduate, member of the Society Board, faculty member and a treasured colleague. Known for her generosity of spirit and for her sage, direct and straightforwar
 HEWITT--Louise, Hillsdale, NJ, passed away May 1st at Pascack Valley Hospital, Westwood, NJ, in her 91st year. Survived by devoted husband of 47 years, Bob Hewitt, Hillsdale. Interment private.       
 JONES--Virginia Kelsey, beloved wife of Frederick E. Jones, passed away on May 5, 2005 at her home on Jupiter Island, FL. She was born in Detroit, MI, on November 26, 1909, she was the daughter of Margarette Kerr Dallas and John Kelsey. She attended Liggett School in Detroit, she also atten
 KAUFF--Adele. Beloved wife of the late Irving Kauff and the late Irwin Heimer. She is survived by her loving children, Tarak, Richard and Jocelyne, Carole and Alan. Cherished grandmother of Jenifer, Amy and Dennis, Lisa, Laurie, Adam and Melodie. Loving sister of Edith Morris. Devoted daugh
 LEVY--Lauren A. The Horace Mann School is deeply saddened by the tragic passing of a cherished and beloved alumna, Lauren Levy '99. Her sense of humor, warmth and gentle spirit filled the halls of HM. Lauren's courage and devotion to family and friends will remain with us forever. Our heart
 MARTIN -- Natalie ''Mimi''. Passed away on April 25, 2005 from heart failure in Rancho Mirage, CA. She was 74. Born Natalie Powell Scott in Cedarhurst, NY, she graduated from the Oldfields School in Glencoe, MD, in 1949. She moved to New York City in the 1950's and worked for Jonai, a women
 MURPHY--Helen Marts, 48, died May 4, 2005 in Montclair. Survived by husband Paul and children Keith and Julia. A Cornell graduate and IT Manager, she was a painter, sculptor and amateur musician. She enjoyed ballet, theater, reading and travel. A Memorial service to held at a later date. In
 O'NEIL--Louise Westergaard. A Broadway producer and mother of four, died on May 6, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. The cause of death was Leukemia, with which she was recently diagnosed. Mrs. O'Neil, who was known professionally as Louise Westergaard, produced or co-produced a number 
 ORATZ -- Rosalyn, passed away peacefully on May 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Murray and cherished mother of Ruth and Mary. Adored grandmother of Harrison and Bennett. Dear sister, aunt and friend. She will be greatly missed. Funeral services private. The family will receive friends at the Regen
 RAVEN--Anne S. (nee Freedman). Beloved wife of the late Ben Raven. Loving mother of Pam Lippman of Manalapan, NJ, and Abbe Raven of Edgemont, NY. Cherished grandmother of Genna and Keri Lippman and David Tackel. Adored mother-in-law of Martin Tackel. Deeply devoted sister, aunt, great-aunt,
 ROSEN--Vicki Turk, who lived in Brooklyn, New Rochelle, and Manhattan all of her life, died April 25, 2005 at age 86 in Palisades, NY. She was the daughter of Harold and Rose (nee Maisel) Turk. She was the beloved wife of second husband, Reuben Rosen, who survives her. The widow of Saul Ste
 ROSENTHAL--Cynthia. On May 6, 2005. Beloved wife of Robert. Cherished mother of Edward and Tara, Terri and Neal Einsidler, Douglas and Shari. Adored grandmother of Benjamin, Sam, Jesse, Amanda, Zack, Daniel, Kyle and Max. Dear sister of Marty and Pat, Barry and Janie Salzberg, Bernie and Lo
 TURNER--Susan Hun McAllen. Died April 5, 2005. She is survived by husband Alfred H. Turner, Jr. of Keene, N.Y; 2 daughters Katherine Casler and Eleanor O'Connell, a step-son Alfred Turner, three grandchildren, a sister Gordon Baker. A Memorial Service will be held this summer in Keene Valle
 BADER--Beatrice. She walks in beauty like the night. All my love, Ann       
 BIENSTOCK -- Liesl. The friends and neighbors of Liesl Bienstock of 450 West End Avenue deeply mourn her death on Friday, May 6th. Loved by many in the building, she will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to her family.       
 GARRETSON - TURNER -- Vir ginia Holland. 86, of Greenport, LI, on May 7, 2005. Renowned painter and needlepoint artist. Loving mother of John and James, Julia Strand and Weba Garretson. Dear sister of Julia. Cherished grandmother of Frances and Jeremy Garretson and Thomas Strand. Predecease
 O'NEIL--Louise Westergaard. A Broadway producer and mother of four, died on May 6, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. The cause of death was Leukemia, with which she was recently diagnosed. Mrs. O'Neil, who was known professionally as Louise Westergaard, produced or co-produced a number 
 ROSENTHAL--Cynthia. We lost a beloved, cherished and loyal friend, whose selflessness, humility and generosity identified her as a unique human being. She truly personified the meaning of a beautiful person. She will be remembered always. The Samuels Family       
 SZABO--Ruth (nee Simon) 72, of Bronxville, NY, died May 4, 2005. Widow of Dr. Tibor Szabo. Sister of Hilda Daily of Garden City Park, NY. She was a Registered Nurse and member of The Oaks Committee of The Alumnae Association, Mt. Sinai Hospital School of Nursing. A memorial service will hel
 TAUB--Ethel. Of NYC, on Saturday, May 7, 2005. Predeceased by her husband Harold. Teacher of the deaf. Survived by children Lynne Van Engel (Daniel), Martin Horowitz (Heidi), Roy Taub (Claire), Lester Taub (Melissa), sister and brother-in-law Pearl and Jesse Karp, grandchildren Emily, Madel
 Carolyn Brady, an artist known for her large Photorealist watercolor paintings, died on May 5 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. She was 67 and lived in New York City. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said her dealer in New York, Nancy Hoffman. Ms. Brady 
 BINNIAN--Jacqueline C., 83, of Greenport, L.I., on May 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late William Binnian. Survived by her sister Anne B. Rienhoff & nephew Chadwick Pfeiffer and many cousins. Longtime resident of LLoyd Harbor, NY and Deer Isle, ME. An avid gardener ad ardent environmentalist
 HOYT--Lyn. Aunt Lyn died peacefully in Manchester, Vermont on May 7, 2005. Born in England on February 17, 1912, Lyn was the widow of Winthrop Hoyt whom she met in London during WW II and subsequently married. Longtime residents of New York City, they moved to Manchester permanently in 1967
 JONES--Jennie Rothman, 95, of Beachwood, Ohio. Formerly of Detroit and Sarasota. Former National Chair of the Womens Division of United Jewish Appeal in 1967. Served on National Boards of Hadassah and Girl Scouts. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry L. Jones, mother of Richard an
 KOKALIARES -- Mary. On May 9, 2005. She was 80 years young. Loving sister of Bertha and the late Thomas. Reposing at the Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway, at 214 St, NYC, Wednesday 2-4 and 6-8 PM. Funeral services at Evangelismos G.O. Church, 302 West 91 St, at West End Avenue, Thursda
 MEYER--Hilde. The worldwide family of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem extends its heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Irma Haas on the loss of her beloved sister. A softspoken and gentle person her smile radiated kindness, warmth, inner beauty and peace of mind. She lived her life fulfil
 MILBURN--Elizabeth Clarke, 92, died at her home in Narragansett, RI on Sunday, May 8, 2005. She was the wife of the late Devereux Milburn, Jr. Born in Wickford, RI on January 9, 1913, Mrs Milburn was the daughter of the late Frank L. and Anita W. Hinckley. She attended the Mary C. Wheeler S
 O'NEIL--Louise Westergaard. Urban Stages wishes to pay tribute to Louise Westergaard for her professional help, generosity, and guidance.       
 POLL--Marjorie. Devoted wife of Leon S. Poll 66 years. Loving mother of Richard & Patricia, loving grandmother of Melissa, Amy, Pamela, Peter, David and Adam and great grandmother of Daphne, Julie and Jack. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her name to Childrens' Tumor Foundation,
 RUBIN--Betty (Bessie) in her 95th year, on Mother's Day, May 8, 2005. Beloved and devoted mother of Enid Mindich, Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Susan. Precious Nanny of Aaron, Spencer Mindich (Samantha), Lauren, Jamie Klasfeld (Marc) and Diana, and great grandmother of Skylar Reese Mindich. W
 Helen Jackson Wilkins Claytor, a pivotal figure in the racial desegregation of the Y.W.C.A. and its first African-American president, died yesterday in Grand Rapids, Mich. She was 98. Her death was announced by her son, Roger Wilkins, the Robinson professor of history and American c
 HERMA--Janice. 63, of Lighthouse Point, Florida, formerly of Hempstead, New York passed away on Friday, April 29, 2005 at Hospice by the Sea Care Center. Janice's life was full of friends and family. She was a graduate of C.W. Post College on Long Island. For ten years she was a Media Speci
 MARSHALL--Nina B. The painter and printmaker, Nina B. Marshall, died on May 9, 2005, of cancer. Born in Brooklyn in 1953, she grew up in Jersey City. After teaching art in high school in Irvington, New Jersey, she took a MFA at Texas Tech University. She taught painting at Southern Utah Sta
 McQUADE--Patricia A. 71, of East High Street, Ballston Spa. Died Monday, May 9 at Saratoga Hospital Hospice Unit. Born in New York City, October 10, 1933, she was the daughter of the late James J. and Genevieve D. Scanlon. She was a 1951 graduate of St. Jean de Baptiste H.S. in New York Cit
 MILBURN--Elizabeth Clarke, 92, died at her home in Narragansett, RI on Sunday, May 8, 2005. She was the wife of the late Devereux Milburn, Jr. Born in Wickford, RI on January 9, 1913, Mrs Milburn was the daughter of the late Frank L. and Anita W. Hinckley. She attended the Mary C. Wheeler S
 PINCHUK--Sindy P. 68, of Cinnaminson, NJ on May 9. ''Wonderful'' mother to Nancy & (Joe Frank), Robert & (Anne) and Steven. Loving companion to Bruce Foster. Cherished grandmother to Audrey, Julia, Abbey, Helena & Benjamin. Daughter of the late Leon & Diane Schoenfeld of Flushing, NY, and s
 POLL--Marjorie. Devoted wife of Leon S. Poll 66 years. Loving mother of Richard & Patricia, loving grandmother of Melissa, Amy, Pamela, Peter, David and Adam and great grandmother of Daphne, Julie and Jack. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her name to Childrens' Tumor Foundation,
 RUBIN--Betty (Bessie) in her 95th year, on Mother's Day, May 8, 2005. Beloved and devoted mother of Enid Mindich, Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Susan. Precious Nanny of Aaron, Spencer Mindich (Samantha), Lauren, Jamie Klasfeld (Marc) and Diana, and great grandmother of Skylar Reese Mindich. W
 TROSS--Ann. Loving and beloved wife of Leonard. Cherished mother of Roberta Cook and Susan Tross and mother-in-law of Michael Cook. Adoring grandma of Jonathan and Alexander Cook. Devoted sister of Del Zucker. Dear aunt and greataunt. Greatly loved; she will be greatly missed. Services Thur
 Betty Talmadge, a former first lady of Georgia and a prominent Washington hostess who had a second career as a businesswoman, restaurateur and cookbook author after her divorce from Senator Herman E. Talmadge, died on Saturday in Atlanta. She was 81. Mrs. Talmadge died after a long 
 COHN--Mae Kilpatrick, died peacefully on May 10, 2005 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Loving and devoted mother of Margaret Cohn, beloved wife of the late Eugene Cohn. Family will receive friends on Thursday from 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st 
 GLICKMAN--Jennie Levin. Died in New Rochelle, NY on April 19, 2005 at the age of 98. Jennie taught the piano for 78 years, before closing her studio in Brooklyn at 94 years of age. Jennie was married to Eli Glickman until his death in 1976. She is survived by her children, Ellen Highstein a
 LESCHNITZER--Maria E. on May 11, 2005. Beloved and devoted mother of Michael Lesch and daughter-in-law Judith. Adored Granny of Sara and Benjamin and their spouses Gabriel and Ali, and great grandmother of Ana Maria Mesa. Was married for 43 years to Adolf F. Leschnitzer who died in 1980. Bo
 MEYER--Hilde. We mourn a very special friend of Reuth who courageously made the move to Jerusalem at age 94. Together with her loving and caring sister, Irma Haas, they found a home at Reuth's Beit Barth. Ursula Merkin, Chair Rosa Strygler, President       
 MILLER--Katherine Dusak. Age 61. Widow of Nobel Laureate, Merton Miller, died May 6, 2005 in Chicago. Katherine was Merton's constant companion and advisor on research papers, books and speeches. After Merton's death, she became his literary executor responsible for the publication of the '
 MINKOFF--Harry. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harry Minkoff, beloved husband of Ruth Minkoff, a treasured friend whose dedication to our Long Island Campaign profoundly impacts millions of lives in New York, in Israel, and aro
 ROCHLIN--Sylvia T. died on May 11, 2005, at age 91. She is survived by her husband, Mordecai, and her son, John Kraemer. Memorial services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Monday, May 16, at 3:30pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Young Audiences, Inc
 TROSS--Ann. Loving and beloved wife of Leonard. Cherished mother of Roberta Cook and Susan Tross and mother-in-law of Michael Cook. Adoring grandma of Jonathan and Alexander Cook. Devoted sister of Del Zucker. Dear aunt and greataunt. Greatly loved; she will be greatly missed. Services Thur
 FELDMAN--Claire, 5/12/22-11/3/96. The MASTER PLAN that has left me bereft of a sister whom I very much loved and respected, has effected me with a deep sadness that is rarely lifted. She was more than a sister. She was my best friend and will be forever missed. Miriam       
 Louise Westergaard O'Neil, a theatrical producer best known for the hit Broadway musical revue ''Sophisticated Ladies,'' died on May 6 in New York. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, her family said. Based on the music of Duke Ellington, ''Sophisticat
 DENT--Virginia M. (Mike). On May 10, 2005. Survived by her husband, Thomas A. Dent, Esq., her children, Frank W. Koupash, Marie D. Scofield and Marc T. Dent and seven grandchildren. Family will receive friends at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 149-20 Northern Blvd, Flushing, NY on Saturday
 LESCHNITZER--Maria E. on May 11, 2005. Beloved and devoted mother of Michael Lesch and daughter-in-law Judith. Adored Granny of Sara and Benjamin and their spouses Gabriel and Ali, and great grandmother of Ana Maria Mesa. Was married for 43 years to Adolf F. Leschnitzer who died in 1980. Bo
 MARGOLIS--Rose, in her 95th year, of New Rochelle, NY, May 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Marty, Marjorie and Beth. Caring grandmother of Jennifer, Lisa, Katie, Leah, Anna and Daniel. Rose is also survived by her brother, Hy Halsband, of Hackensack, NJ. Contrib
 ROCHLIN--Sylvia T. died on May 11, 2005, at age 91. She is survived by her husband, Mordecai, and her son, John Kraemer. Memorial services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Monday, May 16, at 3:30pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Young Audiences, Inc
 STIGLITZ -- Charlotte nee Fishman, 90, passed away May 6, 2005. Cherished wife of the late Nathaniel; devoted mother of Joseph (Anya Schiffrin) and Eloise (Alan Breus) Stiglitz. Teacher at Purdue University Calument Campus until age 80. She will be missed for her warm smile and giving heart
 TOPAL -- Lorraine. Loving wife of Jack, nurturing mother of Mark, Steven, Cheryl and the late Arlene, adored and adoring grandmother of Scott and Andrew. Actively served her temple and community selflessly and with elegance. Contributions in her memory may be made to Arlene Topal Creative A
 MANFREDI--Isabella. Maimonides Research and Development Foundation announces with great sorrow the passing of Isabella Manfredi, beloved mother of Board member, Joseph Manfredi. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Marvin Eisenstadt, Chairman Edna Palozzolo, President       
 MARGOLIS--Rose, in her 95th year, of New Rochelle, NY, May 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Marty, Marjorie and Beth. Caring grandmother of Jennifer, Lisa, Katie, Leah, Anna and Daniel. Rose is also survived by her brother, Hy Halsband, of Hackensack, NJ. Contrib
 OLMSTED--Hope McCurdy. Age 58, of Tazewell, VA. Died May 12, 2005 at her home. Devoted wife and mother, she is survived by her husband Garrett, her sons, John, Charles and James, her daughter Virginia, and two granddaughters. Also survived by her mother, Faith H. McCurdy and her siblings, I
 ROCHLIN--Sylvia T. died on May 11, 2005, at age 91. She is survived by her husband, Mordecai, and her son, John Kraemer. Memorial services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Monday, May 16, at 3:30pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Young Audiences, Inc
 SHIFRIN--Norma Jasper, on May 12, 2005. Born February 28th, 1920. She will be greatly missed. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Shifrin. Sister to the late Phillip and Edward Jasper. Loving mother of Roy and David Shifrin Roxanne) and Laura Tarlowe (Paul). Adoring grandmother of William Shif
 TOPAL--Lorraine. Temple Beth-El of Rockaway Park, its Sisterhood and the children of its schools mourn the passing of a woman of courage, beauty, talent and warmth. She will not be forgotten. We express our deepest sympathy to her husband, Jack Topal, past President, and her family. Dr. All
 BERLIN--Rachel, 79, on May 12, 2005. Loving wife of the late Norman Berlin, devoted mother of Susan and Dena, beloved sister of Jack Sachs. Shiva through Thursday morning, May 19, at 140 West End Ave., NYC, Apt. 11-B. BERLIN--Rachel. An elegant and gracious woman who will be missed 
 COOPER--Elaine T. Her family mourns her passing on Saturday, May 14th, 2005. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, on Monday, May 16th.       
 CORDY--Meta. Died on May 10, 2005 at age 96. Singer, international student advisor and author. Wife of the late Henry Cordy. She is survived by son John, daughter-in-law Carol and grandchildren Lara, Dana, and Tyler as well as her many loving and supportive friends.       
 CUOCO--Laura B. On May 10. Beloved daughter of Louis and Sandra. Loving sister of Debbie. She graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in 1992, UC Berkeley in 1997 and the Yale School of Forestry in 2005. In her brief life, Laurie served 21/2 years in the Peace Corps and one year in 
 GERSON--Micki. We are saddened by the untimely passing of Micki, only 26 years of age, on May 13th, 2005. Beloved daughter of Sharon Gerson Farley and Steven Gerson, devoted step-daughter of Bob Farley and Beth Gerson, dear granddaughter of Miriam Levy and loving sister of Carly. Micki atte
 LIPPMAN--Doris. The officers and members of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Home at Rockleigh, Russberrie Home for Jewish Living, note with profound sorrow the passing of Doris Lippman, wife of our Board member, William Lippman, and mother of our Board member, Howard Lippman. The Lippm
 MADDEN--Audrey Ritter, of Westwood, MA. and South Bristol, ME. formerly of Brooklyn, New York on May 12, 2005, after a determined struggle with cancer. She was born in Hardwick, MA. in 1925 and graduated Mount Holyoke College at the age of 19. She moved to New York City and became a Municip
 MARGOLIS--Rose, in her 95th year, of New Rochelle, NY, May 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Marty, Marjorie and Beth. Caring grandmother of Jennifer, Lisa, Katie, Leah, Anna and Daniel. Rose is also survived by her brother, Hy Halsband, of Hackensack, NJ. Contrib
 MILLER--Judge Edith Lorraine. A Memorial Service will be held at 7PM Saturday, May 21, 2005, at St. Paul the Apostle Church, 405 W. 59th St. Judge Miller was preceded in death by her father, Earl Oscar Meyer, and her mother, Florence Mary Martinbrough. She is survived by a daughter, Janice 
 MORGAN -- Claudia Bur ghardt. July 23rd, 1939-April 14th, 2005. A graduate of the Bronx High School of Science, she earned a BA from Harvard in 1961, and an MA in Urban Planning, 1965, University of Cincinnati. Her career in urban planning was cut short by her increasing disability from mul
 MOSKOWITZ--Ruth B. Suddenly on May 12. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Adored mother of Seymour and Paul. Cherished mother-in-law of Susan. Devoted grandmother of Lauren, Melissa, Gabriella and Allison. Services Sunday, May 15, 10 AM at Boulevard Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I.. Inter
 OLMSTED--Hope McCurdy. Age 58, of Tazewell, VA. Died May 12, 2005 at her home. Devoted wife and mother, she is survived by her husband Garrett, her sons, John, Charles and James, her daughter Virginia, and two granddaughters. Also survived by her mother, Faith H. McCurdy and her siblings, I
 PINCHUK--Sindy P. 68, of Cinnaminson, NJ on May 9. ''Wonderful'' mother to Nancy & (Joe Frank), Robert & (Anne) and Steven. Loving companion to Bruce Foster. Cherished grandmother to Audrey, Julia, Abbey, Helena & Benjamin. Daughter of the late Leon & Diane Schoenfeld of Flushing, NY, and s
 PLATNICK--Bernice (Bunny). From Brooklyn, NY. She passed away peacefully Wednesday, May 11 at Haven Hospice. Daughter of predeceased Elsie, Robert and brother Leonard. Bunnie's life was full of friends and family. She traveled extensively, as a buyer of handbags and leather goods, throughou
 ROCHLIN--Sylvia T. died on May 11, 2005, at age 91. She is survived by her husband, Mordecai, and her son, John Kraemer. Memorial services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Monday, May 16, at 3:30pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Young Audiences, Inc
 SHIFRIN--Norma Jasper, on May 12, 2005. Born February 28th, 1920. She will be greatly missed. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Shifrin. Sister to the late Phillip and Edward Jasper. Loving mother of Roy and David Shifrin Roxanne) and Laura Tarlowe (Paul). Adoring grandmother of William Shif
 STIGLITZ -- Charlotte nee Fishman, 90, passed away May 6, 2005. Cherished wife of the late Nathaniel; devoted mother of Joseph (Anya Schiffrin) and Eloise (Alan Breus) Stiglitz. Teacher at Purdue University Calument Campus until age 80. She will be missed for her warm smile and giving heart
 TOPAL--Lorraine. The partners and staff of Rothschild Topal Miller & Kraft, PC, mourn the loss of our ''First Lady'', Lorraine Topal, the wife of our partner Jack Topal and mother of our partner Steven Topal. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to the entire Topal family: Jack, Steven, Ma
 WEINTRAUB--Rose. Lovingly remembered by her family Linda, Doug, Jane, Jerry, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren       
 COOPER--Elaine Terner. Her family mourns her passing on May 14th, 2005. Loving mother of Alan and Kimberly, Steven and Heather Mnuchin. Cherished grandmother of Emma, Dylan and John Player. Dear sister of Nancy Behrman and Carol Lederman. Services RELOCATED TO PARK EAST SYNAGOGUE, 163 E. 67
 MADDEN--Audrey R. The members of Mrs. Field's Literary Club of Brooklyn recall with love and respect our past president, Audrey R. Madden. Her wit, intelligence and hospitality enriched our lives. We miss her.       
 ROCHLIN--Sylvia T. died on May 11, 2005, at age 91. She is survived by her husband, Mordecai, and her son, John Kraemer. Memorial services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, on Monday, May 16, at 3:30pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Young Audiences, Inc
 ROGERS--Reita (nee Berlat). June 23, 1918-May 14, 2005. Our mom died suddenly on Saturday, and will be surely missed by all. She joins her beloved Pete and she may now rest in peace. She would have been a young, beautiful 87. She will also be missed by her friends and all of her animals. Do
 BELASCO--Edythe, 90, died peacefully at home on May 15, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Richard (Susan) and Steven (Fran); grandmother of David (Lori), Peter (Stephanie), Michael, Daniel and fiance Risa, Judith and Sara; greatgrandmother of Jared, Justin, Carly, Emil
 CHAPPELL - SMITH -- Avery Lincoln. On May 14th, 2005, at age 38, after a courageous fight with breast cancer. Beloved wife of J. Kevin Smith. Adoring mother of Ellery, Emeline and Stillman Smith. Cherished daughter of William B. Jr. and Percilla Avery Lincoln Chappell. Devoted sister of Ric
 COOPER--Elaine Terner. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Elaine Terner Cooper. A supporter of the Museum for over two decades, Elaine will be remembered as a treasured friend of the Whitney Museum, but most of all as
 FISHMAN--David, 90 years old, January 7, 1915-May 13, 2005. Dear Dad, you are the heart and soul of our family. You taught us to have the strength of our own convictions. Your devotions and love to mom was unconditional and her love to you was the same. Both you and mom were the bond in our
 FORD--Gertrude. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Charles Berman, President       
 JASPER--Marguerite E. Age 87, died on Saturday, May 14, of pneumonia contracted after a serious fall. Born in Seattle, WA, graduated from Virginia Mason School of Nursing, Seattle. Served as a Navy Nurse, with rank of Lieutenant, on Espiritu Santos in the South Pacific during WWII. There me
 KURTZ--Norman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Norman Kurtz, beloved husband of Honey Kurtz, a cherished leader of the New York Jewish community whose generosity and dedication strengthens our ability to care for those in need. 
 WHITE--Rowenna L. Wight. May 17, 1980--Sept 2, 1998. To my beautiful apsara. Remembered on her 25 birthday and always from her mother.       
 Elisabeth Fraser, a versatile character actress with a 40-year career on stage, screen and, most enduringly, television, died on May 5 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her 
 AGNEW--Rebecca Tenney. Devoted wife of the late Donald Agnew. Born in 1910 and died March 18, 2005 at Martin Memorial Hospital, Stuart, FL. She leaves a sister, Mrs. Clifford Sutter of Osterville, MA., brothers, C. Thomas Tenney of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., Harral Straat Tenney (deceased). Sh
 ETKIN--Natasha, of Westwood, MA, born April 30, 1915, Russia, died May 16, 2005, at home surrounded by her loving family. Mrs. Etkin is survived by her daughters Masha Etkin, Irene Etkin Goldman, Nora Etkin, Nina Etkin; her grandchildren Daniel Goldman, Ilana Etkin Greenstein, Paul Goldman;
 FARKAS--Ellen Tanner. She died after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Farkas. Cherished mother of Dr. Paul and Esta Farkas of Springfield, MA., and Drs. Lynn and Gary Schwartz of Hanover, N.H. Devoted grandmother of Melanie and Joshua Farkas, and Allison and Erica Schwartz.
 FISHMAN--David, 90 years old, January 7, 1915-May 13, 2005. Dear Dad, you are the heart and soul of our family. You taught us to have the strength of our own convictions. Your devotions and love to mom was unconditional and her love to you was the same. Both you and mom were the bond in our
 HERRMANN--Marie A. It is with great sadness that The Inner-City Scholarship Fund Family notes the passing of a longtime friend. We are so grateful for her commitment to the girls and boys attending the inner-city schools of the Archdiocese of New York. Her generous spirit will never be forg
 MALATZKY -- Ethel (nee Edelstein). Mother of Irving and Arthur. Sister of Robert and wife of the late Hymen. Passed away peacefully early on May 16, 2005. She lived a long and wonderful life. She was a teacher who never stopped learning and her family and friends will miss her.       
 RABKIN--Gertrude (Gloria). It is with deep sorrow that Gloria's family and friend mourn her passing on May 16th. Services on May 19, 2005, 1PM at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, 7800 Myrtle Avenue, Ridgewood (Queens).       
 RUTKOVSKY -- Matilda, on May 16, 2005, with grace and courage. Beloved and loving wife of Jules Rutkovsky; adoring mother of Karl and Fred Baumann; proud grandmother of Jack and Harris Baumann; beloved daughter of Bertha McGowan; sister of Paul McGowan. Contributions in her memory to Memori
 ZIMMERMAN -- Blanche Wachtell. 94, after a short illness. She lived a loving, fruitful and independent life. Survived by children Michael (Rae), Leonard (Susan), Judy Z. Oshry and Suki Robins, 11 grandchildren and four great grandchildren. She will be greatly missed by a very wide circle of
 Elizabeth McFarland Hoffman, who as poetry editor of Ladies' Home Journal sandwiched the work of W.H. Auden, Adrienne Rich and Sylvia Plath in between ''Is Your Marriage a Masquerade?'' and ''Bing Crosby's Kitchen for His Bride,'' died last Thursday in Philadelphia. She was 83 and had homes
 AIZER--Shoula, on May 17th. From Israel to Baghdad to Great Neck, where she made her home with her beloved Naim as they raised Ronny, Alana and Sammy. A zest for life, temple, French, bridge and above all, family and friends; her legacy continues with her adored and adoring David, Randi, Ad
 BYARD--Margaret Mather, died May 17, 2005 at Noble Horizons in Salisbury, CT, in her 95th year. Musician, scholar and Scot, she was the widow of Spencer Byard; mother of Margaret Byard Stearns and Paul Byard; grandmother of Sarah Stearns Fey, Eliza Starr Byard, Kate Stearns Symonds, Joshua 
 EASTMAN--Monique de T., of New York City and Easthampton, NY, passed peacefully on May 17 following an heroic battle with a rare blood cancer. Beloved wife of Richard H. Sprayregen and Lee V. Eastman. Mother of Peter (Lucy), Paul (Emmeline), and Philip (Laurie) Sprayregen; stepmother of Joh
 ETKIN--Natasha, of Westwood, MA, born April 30, 1915, Russia, died May 16, 2005, at home surrounded by her loving family. Mrs. Etkin is survived by her daughters Masha Etkin, Irene Etkin Goldman, Nora Etkin, Nina Etkin; her grandchildren Daniel Goldman, Ilana Etkin Greenstein, Paul Goldman;
 FARKAS--Ellen Tanner. She died after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Farkas. Cherished mother of Dr. Paul and Esta Farkas of Springfield, MA., and Drs. Lynn and Gary Schwartz of Hanover, N.H. Devoted grandmother of Melanie and Joshua Farkas, and Allison and Erica Schwartz.
 FEINSTEIN--Mary Lilly. Of NYC and the Hamptons, passed away May 16, 2005. She was active in philanthropy all her life and was known as the ''Mitzah Lady''. For over 30 years, she was Executive Vice President of the Realty Foundation of NY, which is the philanthropic arm of the real estate i
 FLEISCHMAN--Frances. Formerly of Elmont, N.Y. and Lauderhill, FL. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Sam Fleischman, dear sister of Phillip Meyer. Cherished and devoted mother of Marsha Rochlin and her husband Robert and of Marilyn Lehrer and her husband Stephan. Devoted grandmother of Lo
 HAAS--Mildred (''Midge''), 77, on May 12. Devoted to sick, disadvantaged, and social justice. Leaves long time companion Cy Freed, sister Florence Seger, plus loads of wonderful memories for those she knew. Active in Hadassah, in The Brotherhood Synagogue, 28 Gramercy Park South. Memorial S
 MASON--Deborah S. The Boards of Directors, affiliate and national staff and volunteers of the American Heart Association mourn the passing of Deborah Mason, Sr. Vice President for Health Initiatives, Advocacy and Communications. With conviction, intelligence, sensitivity and grace, Deb led 
 MILLER--Gail L., of Mamaroneck, New York, died peacefully in Greenwich Hospital on May 15th, 2005, after a struggle with emphysema. Loving mother of Matthew Miller, beloved mother-in-law of Marnie Miller, adoring grandmother of Lindsay, Katie, and Isabelle. She was Director of Nursing, Depa
 RABKIN--Gertrude (Gloria). It is with deep sorrow that Gloria's family and friends mourn her passing on May 16th. Services on May 19, 2005, 1PM at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, 7800 Myrtle Avenue, Ridgewood (Queens).       
 BYARD--Margaret Mather, died May 17, 2005 at Noble Horizons in Salisbury, CT, in her 95th year. Musician, scholar and Scot, she was the widow of Spencer Byard; mother of Margaret Byard Stearns and Paul Byard; grandmother of Sarah Stearns Fey, Eliza Starr Byard, Kate Stearns Symonds, Joshua 
 CARR--Curran Earle of Essex Meadows, Essex, CT, died May 17 following a brief illness. Devoted wife of the late Claiborn M. Carr Jr, loving mother of Susan Carr Pickett, Sandra Carr Motland and Claiborn M. Carr III and loving mother-in-law of Randall Motland and Barty Carr. Proud grandmothe
 CRANE--Phyllis (Singerman) Of Atlantis, FL and long term resident of Englewood and Tenafly, NJ, died yesterday, May 17th, 2005 surrounded by her loving family. Born March 3rd, 1918 in Buffalo, NY to Bessie and Isaac Singerman and attended Cornell University. Phyllis Crane was well known for
 FEINSTEIN--Mary Lilly. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend their heartfelt condolences to the entire Feinstein/Lilly families at this sad time. Mary was the guiding force within our organization for over 30 years, until her retirement in 1996. May she rest
 FLEISCHMAN--Frances. Formerly of Elmont, N.Y. and Lauderhill, FL. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Sam Fleischman, dear sister of Phillip Meyer. Cherished and devoted mother of Marsha Rochlin and her husband Robert and of Marilyn Lehrer and her husband Stephan. Devoted grandmother of Lo
 MILLER--Gail L., of Mamaroneck, New York, died peacefully in Greenwich Hospital on May 15th, 2005, after a struggle with emphysema. Loving mother of Matthew Miller, beloved mother-in-law of Marnie Miller, adoring grandmother of Lindsay, Katie, and Isabelle. She was Director of Nursing, Depa
 MORGAN -- Claudia Bur ghardt. July 23rd, 1939-April 14th, 2005. A graduate of the Bronx High School of Science, she earned a BA from Harvard in 1961, and an MA in Urban Planning, 1965, University of Cincinnati. Her career in urban planning was cut short by her increasing disability from mul
 REASENBERG--Lillian (nee Gerber). Died peacefully at home May 17, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Julian Reasenberg, loving and devoted mother to Robert (Wendy) Reasenberg, Paul (Terry Lesser) Reasenberg and Margie (Tony) Pye. Adored grandmother of Suzanne, David and the late Michael Reasenb
 RISEMAN--Catherine E. On May 18, 2005 with grace and courage at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Devoted daughter of the late Mervin and Elaine Riseman. Beloved and loving sister of Margaret Bernstein. Cherished sister-in-law of James H. Bernstein. Adored aunt of Emily & Rebecca Bernstein. Family will r
 WENGROW -- Alice Hirsh, March 7, 1915-December 25, 2004. Artist, illustrator, art teacher, psychotherapist, life long political activist. Survived by son Bill Hirsh (Pam) of Eugene, OR, daughter Diane Wolman of Seattle, grandchildren: Aaron, Rachel (Dean), Anna and Becky; great grandchildre
 BROOKS--Henrietta, beloved mother of daughter Rhoda Linda Brooks & son Kenneth Ian Brooks. Beloved aunt of niece Karen Richman. Henrietta died peacefully in the arms of her beloved on Wednesday, May 18th at noon at the age of 88. A beautiful and gracious woman, she brought joy and happiness
 GREENBERG--Rosalind (Geiger), on May 19th, 2005 peacefully at home at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Adored sister of the late Gertrude Silverman, Isabel Fleischer, Pearl Barnett, Howard Geiger, Muriel Jacobson, Philip Geiger. Cherished aunt and great-aunt; dear friend. Services 
 LALLY--Winifred Ann. A lifelong resident of Manhattan died on May 19, 2005 at the age of 85. Beloved aunt of Thomas Lally, Jr., Karen Lally Colfer, Peter Lally, Dennis Lally, Richard Lally, Martin Lally and the late Maureen Lally. Winifred was a former Asst. Administrator and Commissioner i
 MARKS--Carol. Your untimely passing leaves a void in our families' lives forever. We will miss your open arms and loving heart. Your dignity, class, sincerity and warmth were just a few of the qualities that endeared you to us. Our hearts are broken. Our love goes out to Lester, Lindsay & N
 MILLER--Gail L., of Mamaroneck, New York, died peacefully in Greenwich Hospital on May 15th, 2005, after a struggle with emphysema. Loving mother of Matthew Miller, beloved mother-in-law of Marnie Miller, adoring grandmother of Lindsay, Katie, and Isabelle. She was Director of Nursing, Depa
 REMNITZ -- Barbara. Died May 19 peacefully at home with her family after a ten year battle with cancer. Devoted wife of Martin, beloved mother of David and Leslie, dear sister of Rhoda Sears, cherished grandmother to Alexandra, Hallie and Benjamin, and appreciative friend and mother-in-law 
 BRADLEY--Randi. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Tuesday, May 24, 2005 10:30AM. Rabbi Michael A. White Charles Berman, President       
 BROOKS--Henrietta, beloved mother of daughter Rhoda Linda Brooks & son Kenneth Ian Brooks. Beloved aunt of niece Karen Richman. Henrietta died peacefully in the arms of her beloved on Wednesday, May 18th at noon at the age of 88. A beautiful and gracious woman, she brought joy and happiness
 BURGUIERES--Cheryl Courrege. In the early evening of May 9, 2005, Cheryl Courrege Burguieres, devoted wife and mother, peacefully passed away at home surrounded by her family after a bravely fought 15 year battle with breast cancer. Her memorial service was officiated by Archbishop Joseph F
 DEUTSCH--Miriam ''Mimi'' Knobel, 94. Predeceased by her beloved husband of 64 years, George, and dear son, Roger. Survived by her loving daughter, Karyn (Dennis Michaels), daughter - in - law, Theona. Loved by grandchildren, Jennifer Frient, Dan, Michael, Beth Deutsch; and great-grandchildr
 EASTMAN--Monique de T. The Board of Directors mourns the death of Monique de T. Eastman. Mrs. Eastman was a longtime supporter of CR & T and showed great concern for finding better and more complete treatments for cancer. As a cancer survivor herself, she gave encouragement and understandin
 FERENCZ--Dolores. Born in Columbus, OH, died at her home in Southbury, CT, on May 20 at the age of 90. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Hunter College in 1935, she worked as an elementary school teacher for the NYC Public Schools from 1951 until her retirement in 1973. Devoted wife to the late 
 HART--Vivien (nee Freedman). 1911-2005. Though the twinkle in her eyes faded, the joy she gave us will be everlasting. Warmth, kindness and compassion were the hallmarks of her life. None knew her but to love her, nor named her but to praise.       
 LALLY--Winifred Ann. A lifelong resident of Manhattan died on May 19, 2005 at the age of 85. Beloved aunt of Thomas Lally, Jr., Karen Lally Colfer, Peter Lally, Dennis Lally, Richard Lally, Martin Lally and the late Maureen Lally. Winifred was a former Asst. Administrator and Commissioner i
 MEYERS--Ruth. Died peacefully on May 19, 2005. Devoted wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and friend. Loving, kind and generous. Born in Brooklyn, a graduate of CCNY, she was a practicing CPA for over 50 years. Ruth will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made 
 PICARD -- Lynne Peterson. Passed away on April 18, 2005 after battling non-hodgkin's lymphoma for over 15 years. She was 62 years old. She travelled extensively to study diverse methods of healing, many accounts of which can be read in her memoirs, ''The elephants rope and the untethered sp
 POWERS--Helen Whitecotton. Formerly of Cold Spring Harbor and Oyster Bay, NY died unexpectedly at her home in Chester, CT on May 17. She was 80 years old. She was the loving mother of 6 children: Diana, Flip, Arthur, Brian, Elizabeth and Christopher and grandmother of eight. Helen will be m
 RISEMAN--Catherine E. On May 18, 2005 with grace and courage at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Devoted daughter of the late Mervin and Elaine Riseman. Beloved and loving sister of Margaret Bernstein. Cherished sister-in-law of James H. Bernstein. Adored aunt of Emily & Rebecca Bernstein. Family will r
 ROGERS--Reita (nee Berlat). June 23, 1918-May 14, 2005. Our mom died suddenly on Saturday, and will be surely missed by all. She joins her beloved Pete and she may now rest in peace. She would have been a young, beautiful 87. She will also be missed by her friends and all of her animals. Do
 SABEL--Florence. On May 20, 2005. Dear sister of Mel Sabel and Janet Haitoff. Devoted aunt of Alisa Rivera, Linda, Barry and Alan Haitoff. Beloved and best friend of Melanie Herman. She has graced and enhanced all of our lives. We love you. Service Sunday, May 22, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riversi
 SCHAFFRAN--Maxine. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation extend their deepest condolences to her loving son, Charles, and daughter-in-law Laurie, our devoted Board member and Vice President, and her son Andrew and daughter-in-law Melanie and the
 SLATTERY--Frances H. On May 20, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Gerald. Loving mother of Gerald (Adrianne) and Letitia (Kevin). Adored grandmother of Gerald, Tara, Moira, Greer, Robert and Ryan. Cherished great-grandmother and godmother of Matthew. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 3
 PRICE--Virginia A. After graduating from Zanesville High School, Gena Price attended nearby Muskingum College in southeastern Ohio. She spent her junior year abroad in Aix-en-Provence and graduated from Muskingum with degrees in both French and Psychology. In 1966 Gina joined IBM, where she
 SLATTERY--Frances H. On May 20, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Gerald. Loving mother of Gerald (Adrianne) and Letitia (Kevin). Adored grandmother of Gerald, Tara, Moira, Greer, Robert and Ryan. Cherished great-grandmother and godmother of Matthew. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 3
 ALBERT--Anne of Palm Beach and Fort Lee, NJ, died Sunday, May 22 in Palm Beach after a long illness. She was the wife of Leo N. Albert. She was a member of St. Edward Church, the Beach Club and the Everglades Club. In addition to her husband, Mrs. Albert is survived by her sister, Josefa Ry
 DEAULT -- Mary Metcalf, Longmont, CO, died May 20th, 2005. Graduate of University of Colorado, Boulder, Phi Beta Kappa, Chinese Studies; Master's Library Science. Wife of Monty Deault, mother of Matthew and Mark. Beloved daughter of Manton and Tray Metcalf. Beloved sister of Teresa Metcalf,
 FELL--Elisabeth W., age 88 of Mendham, NJ, formerly of Oyster Bay, L.I. Died on May 16th, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Philip S.P. Fell. Mother of Elisabeth Allen, Dorothy Farrelly, P.S.P. Fell, Jr., and O.M. Fell. She is also survived by ten grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. S
 GOLOVENSKY--Muriel Margareten. Wife of the late Rabbi Dr. David I. Golovensky. Beloved mother of Miriam (Mimi) and Rabbi William Marder; and Joel and Vera Golovensky. Grandmother of Yael and Michal; greatgrandmother of Eytam and Dror. Sister of Shirley Gross, Roslyn Schecter. Her qualities 
 HEIDE--Sister Muriel, RSCJ. Age 88, died May 22. Daughter of the late Gertrude and Herman L. Heide of NYC. She entered the Society of the Sacred Heart in 1935. She is survived by three sisters, Mrs. Edmund Sullivan, Mrs. James Kane and Mrs. Daniel Quigley and a brother, Padre Pablo Maria, O
 KENTZ--Rita O. Of Spring Lake, NJ, and John's Island, Vero Beach, FL, died on May 22, 2005. She was the wife of NJ Superior Court Judge Frederick C. Kentz, Jr. (ret.), the loving mother of Maryanne, Frederick C. III, Patricia, and Andrew W. She is also survived by four grandchildren and a s
 LEMBECK--Rosemary H. 91, of Delray Beach, Florida and formerly Short Hills, New Jersey, passed away May 22, 2005 after a short illness. Survived by her children: William H. Lembeck, Robert P. Lembeck and Christine L. Oteo and their families.       
 LEVY--Emita. ''She speaks with wisdom; the law of kindness is on her lips.'' (Proverbs 31:26). Central Synagogue notes with profound sorrow the passing of a beloved, longtime member and pillar of our community, Emita Levy. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. A funeral servi
 NETCHINSKY--Rhoda (Levin), 84, artist and political activist, member of the Art Students League, on May 22 in Brooklyn. Deeply loved by friends and family: her sister, Mimi Leipzig, daughters, Jill Netchinsky - Toussaint and Suzy D'Angelo, grandchildren, Joseph, Jennifer, Antoinette and Jon
 BEEKMAN -- Sara Fruhauf. On May 24, 2005 in her 104th year. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted sister of Henry Fruhauf, aunt of William Fruhauf. Visitation Wednesday 4-6PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Services Thursday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside.'' BEEKMAN-
 DEAULT -- Mary Metcalf, Longmont, CO, died May 20th, 2005. Graduate of University of Colorado, Boulder, Phi Beta Kappa, Chinese Studies; Master's Library Science. Wife of Monty Deault, mother of Matthew and Mark. Beloved daughter of Manton and Tray Metcalf. Beloved sister of Teresa Metcalf,
 EASTMAN--Monique de T. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with deep sadness the death of Monique de T. Eastman, beloved mother of Philip Sprayregen, member of our real estate committee, and husband of our dedicated Trustee, Laur
 EZERMAN--Elsa Hilger, cellist, died May 17, 2005 at age 101. A child prodigy, she was the first woman non-harpist to join a major orchestra, the Philadelphia, in 1936. Elsa gave last recital, 1999, age 95.       
 FRANKENBERGER -- Ghis laine of Paris, France and longtime resident of Rye, NY, died of cancer on May 23, 2005. She was 58. She is survived by her husband Burkhard and children Caroline and Oliver. A brief memorial service will be held 5PM on Thursday, May 26, 2005 at the Graham Funeral Home
 KOLKER--Leona Grobla, 87, of Brooklyn, NY and Phoenixville, PA. Died on May 24, 2005 after a lengthy illness. A pioneering woman executive in the floor covering industry, she created a popular 1950's Congoleum design embedded with flecks of gold and silver. Survived by her sister Cecelia (T
 LEVY--Emita. ''She speaks with wisdom; the law of kindness is on her lips.'' (Proverbs 31:26). Central Synagogue notes with profound sorrow the passing of a beloved, longtime member and pillar of our community, Emita Levy. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. A funeral servi
 MAGNER--Ethel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ethel Magner, beloved mother of Marge Magner, a treasured friend and leader whose passionate commitment to our Wall Street Division profoundly impacts millions of lives in New York,
 RUBIN--Jessie. The faculty and staff of the Charles C. Harris Skin and Cancer Pavilion, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, NYU School of Medicine record with great sorrow the death of Jessie Rubin, MD, Associate Professor of Dermatology on May 23, 2005. A graduate of the Dermatol
 JONES -- Jennie Rothman. The leadership and staff of United Jewish Communities/ Federations of North America mourn the loss of Jennie Rothman Jones, UJC National Women's Philanthropy board member. Mrs. Jones dedicated her life to Jewish communal service and advocacy. May her memory be a ble
 KANTROW--Sylvia. Age 95. Died as she wished--at home and independent--on May 23, 2005. Devoted wife of Aaron Kantrow. Mother of Alan Kantrow, and aunt of Dr. Ronald I. Maitland. She was the last of her kind, and her passing marks the end of an era. Funeral services 9 AM Sunday, June 12, Gut
 NOYER--Mary E., of Larchmont, NY, on May 24, 2005, at Calvary Hospital. Wife of the late Maurice L. Noyer. Raised in Riverdale. Graduate of The College of Mount Saint Vincent. Lifelong volunteer, former member Mamaroneck Board of Education, and owner Noyer Beach Realty, Westhampton Beach, N
 SCHLOSSBERG -- Mae (Hirsch). Passed away May 25 at the age of 94. She is survived by her beloved family, daughter Maryann Gelula, granddaughter Nicole Lefton and her husband Eric Mullen and their children Ethan and Cameron; and son Edwin Schlossberg, his wife Caroline Kennedy and their chil
 SELSKY--Tobe (nee Lichtenthal) died peacefully age 93 on May 23. Predeceased by husband Maurice in 1974. Mother to Susan and son-inlaw Dr. Solomon Liebowitz, Edward and daughter-in-law Barbara. Grandmother to Nancy, Samantha and Neal Kaufman. Great-grandmother to Madeline Lily. Tobe loved h
 HEILBUT--Monika, on May 24, 2005 at age 56. Taken from us much too young, Monika was the beloved mother of Lili and friend to so many. Monika was born in Ravensburg, Germany on June 4, 1948 and became a U.S. citizen in 1975. She was an accomplished gymnast and was a judge in the Olympic Gam
 KANTROW--Sylvia. Age 95. Died as she wished--at home and independent--on May 23, 2005. Devoted wife of Aaron Kantrow. Mother of Alan Kantrow, and aunt of Dr. Ronald I. Maitland. She was the last of her kind, and her passing marks the end of an era. Funeral services 9 AM Sunday, June 12, Gut
 LOVINGER--Rose, 102, NYC, died May 26. Born in Philadelphia, she worked for Girard Bank & Trust Co, Philadelphia, then as executive secretary for The Bobbs Merrill Publishing House, NYC, for many years. She devoted many hours helping those in need including reading at The Jewish Guild for t
 SCHLIFF--Rolene. The Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourns the loss of Rolene Schliff, esteemed Women's Auxiliary member, friend and supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A. Zurack, Co-Chairs Lou-Ellen Barkan, President and CEO     
 SCHLOSSBERG--Mae. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Mae Schlossberg, mother of Maryann Gelula, Class of 1956 and Edwin Schlossberg, Class of 1963, grandmother of Nicole Lefton, Class of 1982 and great grandmother of Ethan Mullen, Class of 2018. Mrs. Schlossberg's devotion 
 Ruth Laredo, a pianist equally at home in chamber music and solo works who was known for landmark recordings of Scriabin and Rachmaninoff, died on Wednesday at her apartment in New York. She was 67. Ms. Laredo, who played her last concert on May 6 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
 Ludmilla Nikitina Shapiro, a Russian-born journalist and photographer who with her husband amassed a collection of Soviet-era political porcelain considered the most comprehensive in North America, died on May 8 in Madison, Wis., where she lived. She was 91. Mrs. Shapiro's death was
 ANGLIN -- Helen, Grand Dame of New York City, dies at 102. Helen Anglin was born in Youngstown, Ohio to John and Elizabeth Verosic in 1902 and had six siblings: Michael, Louis, John, Joseph, Stephen and Elizabeth. She left Youngstown to pursue her dreams of opening a millinery store in New 
 LAREDO--Ruth. Manhattan School of Music deeply mourns the passing of Ruth Laredo, a distinguished member of the piano faculty since 1992. Her artistry, intellect, energy and compassion have had an enormous impact on generations of pianists. As a colleague and friend she will be sorely misse
 BENEZRA--Naomi Irene. A true woman of valor and grace, respected mentor and educator of thousands of Jewish children as Executive Director for 35 years at the Yeshivah of Crown Heights, left us on May 21st. A pillar of strength and beloved wife of Meyer. Loving mother of Frada, late son Ted
 BRAGAR--Eleanor Ades. On May 26, 2005. Loving mother of Robert and Joan. Devoted grandmother of Rebecca and Michael. She will be dearly missed by all of her family and friends. Service Monday 12:45 p.m. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 ELKIN--Lorretta, died on May 10, 2005, at Medford Leas. Born in New York City, she lived in Pennsylvania and New Jersey for the past 50 years. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, she received a BA from Washington Square College and MA from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, NYU. Her childhoo
 EVANS--Jean Whitehill, 80, of Scottsdale, AZ, passed away on May 19th, 2005. Formerly of Montclair, NJ. She is survived by son, Sean Evans, of Phoenix AZ; daughter, Stacey Evans Byrne, and son-in-law, Peter Byrne, and grandson, Miles Byrne of Petaluma CA; brother, John Whitehill, of Flushin
 FRIEDMAN--Rose Handler on May 22nd, 2005. Wife of the late Julius Friedman. Also survived by her daughter Karen Plumley and beloved brother and sister-inlaw Michael and Estelle and many nieces and nephews. Rest in peace.       
 LAREDO--Ruth. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the death of our beloved friend, pianist Ruth Laredo. She became a part of Young Concert Artists in 1962 and we were proud of the range of her career as a soloist, chamber musician and as an inspiring mentor to young performers. Ruth w
 LARK--Cynthia Ann. Longtime biologist, passed away Tuesday, May 24, 2005. Born in Shawnee, OK, on New Year's Eve, 1928, to Lester Thompson, a petroleum engineer, and Eleanor Folz, she pursued a scientific career while raising a family of four children at a time when women in science had to 
 LEOPOLD--Anne Helen (nee David). Born in Worms, Germany, died May 18, 2005, in New York City at 84. She worried for us all. She dared to show that she didn't have all the answers. She enjoyed simple pleasures. She always wanted to have been more. She was so much. We miss you, ''our tante''.
 SHAPIRO -- Louella Waller stein. Of Miami, FL, died May 26, 2005 at her home from terminal cancer. She was surrounded by her three children. Louella was married to Israel David Shapiro for 52 years. He predeceased her in 1996. They had four children: Dolores (Paul) Warren who died in 1971, 
 SHAVER--Alice, passed away on May 26, 2005 at the age of 84. She was predeceased by husbands Clarence H. Shaver and Charles Mendelson.       
 WEISGRAU--Jeanne G. The Directors, Officers and Staff of Mt. Zion Cemetery sadly mourn the passing of its former Director and Officer, Jeanne G. Weisgrau, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Morris, devoted mother of Judith Stempa and Maxine K., loving grandmother of Michael and Matthew Ste
 Margaret Popkin, an American lawyer who worked to overhaul the judicial system in strife-torn El Salvador, died on May 18 at a hospital in Washington. She was 54. The cause was complications of heart surgery, her family said. After working in California as an immigration law
 CANNON -- Gertrude. Of Forest Hills, NY, beloved wife of the late John T. Cannon, on May 28, 2005. Trudy Wilson, as she was known professionally, was the longtime Director of Administration for the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. She was also a Cordon-Bleu trained gourmet 
 LAREDO--Ruth. Symphony Space mourns the passing of our long time board member and champion, Ruth Laredo, and send our deepest sympathies to her family. She will be greatly missed. Steven M. Alden, Board Chair Isaiah Sheffer, Artistic Director Cynthia Elliott, Executive Director LARE
 MICHAELS--Phoebe. After a long illness, Phoebe passed away quickly and peacefully on May 27, 2005, after joking and chatting with her beloved niece Carrie. Her warmth and humor stayed with her until the end. She touched the lives of all who knew her. She is survived by her sister Marilyn Be
 NAMAD--Vicky. Artist, teacher and renaissance woman. Died peacefully on May 28th, 2005. She is mourned by her three sons Ronny, William and Frank; her grandchildren Michelle, Tina, David and Tanya; her brother Max Salama of Egypt. An inspiration to everyone and loved by all. Services Monday
 SHAVER--Alice, passed away on May 26, 2005 at the age of 84. She was predeceased by husbands Clarence H. Shaver and Charles Mendelson.       
 ARMSTRONG -- Sheila H. Died at home on Saturday, May 28, at age 93 after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Edward, and beloved mother of Edward, John, and Sheila A. Hoerle. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey, Scott, Alex, Ian, and Anne. Great grandmother of William, Elizabeth, Nicholas an
 CANNON -- Gertrude. Of Forest Hills, NY, beloved wife of the late John T. Cannon, on May 28, 2005. Trudy Wilson, as she was known professionally, was the longtime Director of Awards for the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. She was also a Cordon-Bleu trained gourmet chef and
 EDER--Shirley. To her there was no business like show business. See notice under SLOTKIN--Shirley Eder.       
 MICHAELS--Phoebe. After a long illness, Phoebe passed away quickly and peacefully on May 27, 2005, after joking and chatting with her beloved niece Carrie. Her warmth and humor stayed with her until the end. She touched the lives of all who knew her. She is survived by her sister Marilyn Be
 SHAPIRO--Ruth. On May 29, at age 87. Widow of Mac Shapiro. A longtime public school secretary, she is mourned by her children Judy and David Feigin, Steven and Nancy Shapiro, her grandchildren Matthew, Eric and Sam, and her great - granddaughter Daphne Michelle. Services at 11:30 AM, June 1
