 Anne Bancroft, the stage and film star whose signature triumphs in a 50-year career ranged from the courageous Annie Sullivan in ''The Miracle Worker'' to the hungrily seductive Mrs. Robinson in ''The Graduate,'' died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 73 and had 
 Audrey G. Hochberg, a former New York State assemblywoman, died yesterday morning at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Scarsdale. The cause was uterine cancer, her daughter Judith Hochberg said. A Democrat, Ms. Hochberg represented 
 Annie Toglia, who developed a physical rehabilitation program for women with breast cancer, died in Mount Kisco, N.Y. on Wednesday. She was 56. Her family said the cause was complications of the disease. When Ms. Toglia learned she had late-stage breast cancer in 1996, she h
 Clare Lynch O'Brien, an author, editor and consultant to children's television, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 62. The cause was breast cancer, her sister Eileen Lynch Sussan said. Mrs. O'Brien was a senior children's editor at Random House and a longtime
 Pamela May, a leading British dancer in the early years of the Royal Ballet who helped that company, then called Sadler's Wells Ballet, take New York by storm in 1949, died on Monday, the Royal Ballet announced in London. She was 88. Although she was overshadowed in the troupe by he
 Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failur
 Frieda Zames, a prominent advocate for the disabled who lobbied to make New York City accessible to them, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. The cause has not been determined, said Anne Emerman, a longtime friend. She said Ms. Zames had been recovering at h
 Jane Benedict, a prominent housing advocate who was the principal founder of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a New York City tenants' rights organization, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 93. A longtime resident of New York, she had lived in Oakland, Calif., for the last se
 Shana Alexander, a journalist and television personality best known as the liberal sparring partner of the conservative commentator James J. Kilpatrick on the television newsmagazine ''60 Minutes'' in the 1970's, died on Thursday in Hermosa Beach, Calif. She was 79 and had lived in Manhatta
 Vera Komarkova, a botanist and mountain climber who was among the first women to scale some of the world's highest peaks, died on May 25 in her home in Leysin, Switzerland. She was 62. The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said. In the fall of 1978 the Ame
