 Capt. Kathleen McGrath, the first woman to command a United States Navy warship, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. She was 50 and lived in McLean, Va. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Peggy McGrath. Captain McGrath became comma
 Wendy Hilton, a specialist in Baroque dance, died on Sept. 21 at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was cancer, said Edward Manowitz, a friend. Ms. Hilton, who was born in England, came to New York in 1969 to direct the Dance Collegium of Rosalyn Tureck's Internati
 Helen Dudar, a prolific New York journalist and freelance writer on cultural subjects, died on Aug. 1 at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her husband, Peter L. Goldman, said. Ms. Dudar, who grew up on Long Island, started her 
 Nancy Stephenson Nichols, an executive recruiter who helped stellar educational and cultural institutions find stellar executives to lead them, died last Wednesday in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 57 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Clinton Corners, N.Y. The cause was 
 Mia Slavenska, a ballerina celebrated both for her authoritative technique and for her red-haired beauty, died on Saturday at a retirement center in Los Angeles where she had lived in recent years. She was 86. A glamorous dancer with a vivid stage presence, Ms. Slavenska was especia
 Mary Maxine Reed, who in 1971 won a landmark Supreme Court case that struck down dozens of state laws discriminating against women, died on Sept. 26 near Boise, Idaho. She was believed to be about 93, though she would not tell her age, her lawyer Allen Derr said. On Nov. 22,
 Phyllis Calvert, a ladylike actress who packed British movie theaters in the darkest days of World War II with her performances in wildly melodramatic, escapist costume dramas, died on Tuesday in London. She was 87. Along with Margaret Lockwood, Stewart Granger and James Mason, the 
 Vera G. List, a forward-looking philanthropist whose causes included contemporary art, opera, education and social justice, died Thursday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 94. Mrs. List, who received the National Medal of Arts from President Bill Clinton in 1996, was born Vera
 Christine Stevens, who devoted her life to protecting all creatures -- elephants, whales and laboratory animals -- died last Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Washington, where she was a leader of social life. She founded the Animal Welfare Institut
 Patricia Hochschild Labalme, an executive and a trustee of foundations that give major support to education and scholarly research as well as a scholar of the Renaissance, died on Friday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 75 and also lived in West Cornwall, Conn.      
 Tatyana M. Velikanova, a Soviet human rights activist who was a leading editor of the most important samizdat journal of human rights abuses and spent nearly nine years in prison camp and exile, died of cancer on Sept. 19. She was 70 and lived in Moscow. Ms. Velikanova, a mathematic
 Zara Nelsova, a prominent cellist who recorded Ernest Bloch's ''Schelomo'' for cello and orchestra with the composer conducting, and appeared with major orchestras in North America and Europe, died on Oct. 10 at her Manhattan home. She was 84. She studied Bloch's cello works with hi
 Catherine Connelly, who as an 11-year-old in 1904 escaped the inferno that burned the General Slocum, an excursion boat in the East River, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Wilton, Conn. She was 109 and was one of the last two survivors of the disaster, according to a commemorative grou
 Eileen Jackson Southern, a scholar of Renaissance and African-American music and the first black woman to be appointed a tenured full professor at Harvard University, died on Sunday at her home in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 82. As a researcher, author and teacher, Dr. Southern doc
 Aileen Riggin Soule, a diver and swimmer who at age 14 became the youngest American Olympic gold medalist and later became the oldest living American female gold medalist, died Thursday in a nursing home in Honolulu. She was 96. At the 1920 Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium, Riggin won t
 Eileen Simpson, a writer who probed the depths of her difficult early life and, in a well-known memoir, the tumultuous years with her husband John Berryman and their circle of poet friends, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. ''All poets' wives have rotten lives,'
 Elizabeth Longford, the best-selling biographer and political activist who was the widow of the social reformer Lord Longford and the matriarch of a family that bred other well-known writers, died on Wednesday at her home in Sussex. She was 96. From her school years through the near
 Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and a director of the Hearst Corporation, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said Paul Luthringer, a spokesman for the Hearst Corporation. A granddau
 Alina Pienkowska, a shy and soft-spoken nurse whose impassioned words turned a shipyard strike in Gdansk, Poland, in 1980 into a nationwide and triumphant movement called Solidarity that ultimately helped to bring down Communism, died on Oct. 17 in Gdansk. She was 50. The cause was cancer, 
 Edith Tiger, the director of a civil liberties organization who fought for the rights of people ranging from the victims of McCarthyism to Haitian refugees to rebellious high school students, died on Oct. 22 in Brooklyn. She was 83. She had a heart attack at a diner in Brooklyn Heig
