 Mary Shepard, the modest illustrator whose line drawings of Mary Poppins brought to life the ultimate British nanny in a series of seven books by P. L. Travers published from 1933 to 1988, died in London on Sept. 4. She was 90. Her father was E. H. Shepard, the illustrator of ''Winn
 Ann Doran, a character actress who appeared in hundreds of movies and television shows over the course of a career that began during the silent film era and lasted into the 1980's, died on Sept. 19 in Carmichael, Calif. She was 89. Ms. Doran's more memorable roles included a panicky
 Sophie Koulomzin, a leading Orthodox Christian educator whose life encompassed the history of 20th-century Russia and the experience of Russian emigres, died in Valley Cottage, N.Y., on Friday. She was 96. A longtime seminary instructor in the United States, she wrote widely used te
 Miriam Wolfe, whose long acting career embraced radio, television and the theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Toronto. She was 78. Ms. Wolfe played a wide variety of characters during her lifetime but was perhaps best known for her skill at conveying an assortment of wicked wit
 Sirimavo Bandaranaike of Sri Lanka, the first woman in the world to serve as a prime minister, died yesterday shortly after voting in Sri Lanka's elections. She was 84. Mrs. Bandaranaike's final act was to vote in a parliamentary election she hoped would return the family's party to
 Janice Brustlein, whose painting career, pursued under the name Biala, spanned two art capitals and several generations, died on Sept. 24 at her home in Paris. She was 97 and had lived in Paris since 1958. She was known for cryptic, lusciously painted interiors, still lifes, landsca
 Sonja Bullaty, a photographer noted for lyrical composition and startling use of color and light in a vast body of work created during a five-decade collaboration with her husband, Angelo Lomeo, died on Oct. 5 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 76, and had homes
 Mireille Johnston, an author and television figure widely known for her cookbooks on French regional cuisines, died Oct. 5 at her home in Paris. She was 65. Her death was unexpected, and the cause was not immediately clear, her family said. Mrs. Johnston was born in France, 
 Gwen Verdon, whose high-kicking artistry, flaming red hair and head-turning figure made her an unforgettable presence in musicals like ''Can-Can,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''Chicago,'' died yesterday in Woodstock, Vt. She was 75 and had homes in Bronxville, N.Y., and Quogue, N.Y. She d
 Julie London, whose understated voice and striking honey-blond appearance made her one of the top female vocalists of the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 74. Miss London, who lived in the San Fernando Valley, suffered a stroke five years ago and
 Lady Sarah Consuelo Spencer-Churchill, a volunteer worker who was a cousin of Winston Churchill, died on Friday in Middletown, Conn. She was 78 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Her family said she died during surgery. Lady Sarah was a sister of John George Vanderbilt Henry Spencer-Churc
 Jean Peters, a 20th Century Fox contract player whose unpretentious beauty earned her leading roles in some of the top films of the late 1940's and early 50's before she abandoned her career and practically disappeared from view after a secretive marriage to the billionaire Howard Hughes, d
 Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday. She was 73. Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in
 Jacquelyn Reinach, a writer, composer, television producer and co-creator of the ''Sweet Pickles'' series of children's books, which featured characters like Accusing Alligator and Smarty Stork, died on Sept. 30 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said
 Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later was editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday. She was 73. Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alask
 Sybil H. Milton, a leading scholar of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and a senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died on Oct. 16 in the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. She was 59. Dr. Milton, who lived in
 Dr. Miriam M. Salpeter, a neurobiologist whose research contributed to the understanding and treatment of neuromuscular disorders like myasthenia gravis, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. A resident of Ithaca, she was 71. The cause was thyroid cancer, her fami
 Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 61. The cause was cancer, said her daughter Naima Hazelton. Because Ms. Lee performed in two radically dif
