 Janet C. Carter, a champion of African and African-American fine arts, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. The cause of her death was heart failure, said her husband, Ron Carter, the jazz bassist. He declined to disclose her age. Mrs. Carter had a role in the formative stages of t
 BERKSON-Natalie. Beloved and devoted mother to Ken and Jim. Wife to the late Charles. Cousin, aunt and friend. In lieu of flowers, donations in her name to the American Diabetes Association, 149 Madison Ave., NY, NY 10016, would be appreciated       
 CHALL-Dr. Marion N. Died on April 28, 2000 in Tel-Aviv, Israel. She fell ill while traveling in Egypt. A graduate of Barnard College and Cornell University Medical College, she was one of four women in the Class of 1954. She completed her residency at New York Hospital. Dr. Chall was Honora
 DeLORENZO-Rita. On April 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John J. DeLorenzo. Survived by her sister and brother-in-laws, Joya Paterson and Joseph DeLorenzo, her nephew John Rumpel and her cousin Roland and Lorna Briggs. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St. Sunday an
 KENNEDY-Anna Scott, wife of the late Moorhead C. Kennedy, on April 28, at age 92. Survived by sons Moorhead and Alexander, daughter Mary K. Adamson, eight grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held in Bryn Mawr, PA, on May 6. Donations in her memory may be m
 LUBLIN - Emily Langley. Of Brookline, MA, age 84, on April 28. Beloved mother of Langley Danowitz and Alice Morris, former wife of Gerson Lublin, all of NYC, and grandmother of Allison Deaver of Whitefish, MT. Emmy, always a free spirit, served as fashion editor, community volunteer and med
 TODRES-Lenore. The Board of Governors and members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely passing of their dear friend and member Lenore Todres. Her warm smile will be sorely missed by all of us who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Robert Fagenson, President Jane G
 BLUMBERG-Ronda Ormont. Age 52, suddenly on April 29th. Survived by her devoted husband Henry & beloved daughter Perri. The most gracious and generous lady, Dr. Ormont was a wondrous mother and wife and a pioneer in career counseling for creative professionals. She inspired all who knew her 
 DANISH-Marcy. The Partners and Staff of Richard A. Eisner & Company mourn the untimely loss of their esteemed colleague and friend, Marcy. Her dedication, loyalty and personal commitment were an inspiration to us all. We will miss her dearly and extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family
 DeCARLO-Dana-Ann on April 30, 2000 of Douglaston. Beloved wife of Thomas Newgarden. Special daughter of Donald and MaryAnne. Loving granddaughter of Anne and Hank Zarling. Also survived by her aunt and uncle, Ann and Louis Cartolano and cousins, Margaret and John Cartolano. In repose at the
 FAUCETTA-Ann Catherine. Of Southampton on April 30, 2000. Beloved wife of Peter. Loving mother of Jill Bertuccio, Daniel and Peter Faucetta, Jr. Dear sister of Ellen, Molly and Dan O'Shea. Cherished grandmother of Daniel and Julia Ann Faucetta. Reposing Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at the Brock
 FLEISIG-Marjorie Hall. On April 26, 2000. Survived by husband Ross Fleisig, daughter Anne Machlin of Binghamton, NY, and Dale Gallis of Shoreham, NY, and two grandchildren, Russell and Thea Gallis. She grew up in Forest Hills, graduated from Adelphi University, and lived for 44 years in Gar
 KENNEDY-Anna Scott, wife of the late Moorhead C. Kennedy, on April 28, at age 92. Survived by sons Moorhead and Alexander, daughter Mary K. Adamson, eight grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held in Bryn Mawr, PA, on May 6th. Donations in her memory may be
 SCHLANGER-Nathalie G., Age 87, on April 29, 2000, at her home in Mount Vernon, New York. Mrs. Schlanger, the daughter of the late Asher and Miriam Gutkowsky Glickson, was born and raised in Norwalk, Connecticut. She graduated from Vassar College, and later from Columbia University. She marr
 WEINTRAUB-Rose. A woman of valor. Daughter of the late Ethel and Abraham Bass, beloved wife of Samuel Weintraub, sister of Clare, Bertha, and Morris. Adored mother of Jerry and Jane, Melvyn Douglas and Linda. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Abby, Julie, Richard, Jamie, and Jody, and great
 WILLCUTS-Mildred G. Of New York City. After attending the University of Wisconsin, she worked for the National Labor Relations Board in Washington, D.C. and Minneapolis. In 1947, she came to New York and became legal secretary and office manager for Lawrence R. Condon and, more recently, fo
 Vicki Sue Robinson, the vivacious pop-gospel singer whose 1976 hit ''Turn the Beat Around'' became a signature anthem of the disco era, died on Thursday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 46. The cause was cancer, said Gina Andriolo, her publicist. A prolific jingle singer
 BARBER-Dr. Gertrude A., resident of Erie, PA died suddenly April 29, 2000. She was the daughter of the late John J. Barber, Sr. & Kathryn Cantwell Barber. She was preceded in death by two sisters and six brothers. She is survived by a sister, Mrs. Martin (Kathryn) Durkin of Erie along with 
 BERNIK-Irene ''Ren''. Suddenly on April 28, 2000. Beloved daughter of Roberto and Silvia. Loving sister of Jose and Lidia. She was an artist and graduate student who touched the lives of all who she met. She will be dearly missed. Rabbinical service Wednesday, 10:30 AM at Krtil Funeral Home
 BROOKS-Frances Deering. Age 61. Of Mountain View, California. On April 24, 2000. She leaves her father Edwin Brooks, Jr, two brothers Edward Brooks and Hooper Brooks. Memorial service Saturday, May 13 at 4PM in the First Congregational Church, 68 Main Street, Falmouth, Mass. In lieu of flow
 DANISH-Marcy. The Partners and Staff of Richard A. Eisner & Company mourn the untimely loss of their esteemed colleague and friend, Marcy. Her dedication, loyalty and personal commitment were an inspiration to us all. We will miss her dearly and extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family
 HALL-Margaret Dunham, in Marion, MA, April 29, 2000, age 94 years, of Rochester, MA. Educator, founder of Camp Snipatuit in Rochester, MA. Sister of Constance D. Schell of Myerstown, PA., also survived by many nieces and nephews. A memorial service will take place on Sunday, May 7th at 2 P.
 LEBOVICI-Freda, of Lexington, MA, formerly of Hillsdale, New Jersey, on April 27, 2000. Wife of the late Herbert Lebovici, she is survived by her sons Darrow and Victor and grandchildren Jeffrey & Lisa Lebovici. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be sent to the Brandeis Univers
 MINER-Frieda, a Brooklyn resident since her birth on March 28, 1912, died in Los Angeles on April 30, 2000, from congestive heart failure. Her daughter, Elaine Korotzer; son, Lawrence Miner; brothers, Ben Gluck, Joseph Gluck, and Hyman Gluck; sisters, Jeanette Prager and Evelyn Newman, four
 RAPHAEL-Claire. Devoted wife of the late Israel (Serk) Raphael, loving mother of Suzanne R. Berkson of Evanston, Il. and Arthur J. Raphael of Hauppague, N.Y., dear sister of the late Pauline Rubinoff and the late Ruth Lasersohn. Adoring grandmother of Jennie Berkson Edelstein, Adam Berkson,
 STAEHELIN - Marguerite M., daughter of Max Staehelin, a well known Swiss banker and lawyer, died peacefully in Basel, Switzerland on April 30, aged 93, survived by her nephews Thomas and Max Staehelin, a great nephew, a great niece and by her sister-in-law, Mrs. Helene Staehelin. A former r
 WEINSTEIN-Sylvia Linder. Beloved mother of three. cherished grandmother of four. Loving Aunt, wife, sister, cousin and devoted friend to many. Born on Lincoln's Birthday, 1912, teacher of English and French, graduated NYU Phi Beta Kappa, married to the late Dr. Mandel Weinstein for 41 years
 Penelope Fitzgerald, who began a prize-winning literary career late in life with a series of understated novels written in lilting prose, died on Friday in Highgate, London. She was 83 and lived in London. Ms. Fitzgerald was the author of the 1995 novel ''The Blue Flower'' about the
 EDELMAN-Gail Cohen. 55, of Brooklyn, NY. Died on May 2, 2000 of complications from Multiple Myeloma. Survived by her husband Marvin, son Gabriel, daughter Aliza and fiance Sean Ross, father-in-law Mayer Edelman and sisters-in-law Susan Robbins and Betty Bennett. Also survived by her dear ne
 GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Beloved wife of Efraim Grinberg, cherished mother of Margot and Sam. Beloved daughter of Annabelle and Bernard Fishman. Daughter-in-law of Sonia and Gedalio Grinberg. Sister of Mark and Jill Fishman, and Susan and David Kohen. Sister-in-law to Miriam and David Phalen,
 GUIDO-Antoinette (nee Tuzza). On April 26, 2000 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Vincent C. Guido. She is survived by a son, Laurance J. Guido, MD, a daughter-in-law, Jane S. Guido, a granddaughter, Pia G. Murphy, a grandson, Laurance J. Guido, Jr., all of New York City, and a dear compa
 HAMADA-Dorothy, (nee Fleischmann). Died May 1, 2000 at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Edwin Hamada & Roslyn (Barry) Gore, grandmother of Adam (Kathy) Hamada, Jill Hamada, Audrey (Sean) Jacobs, Wendy (Bradley) Gordon, Matthew Hamada & Nikelle Hamada. Dear s
 HENDEL-Clara, on April 27, 2000 at age 88 in Ann Arbor, Michigan (formerly of Manhattan). She leaves a daughter (Linda) and a son (Stephen), as well as 2 grandchildren (Elizabeth and Michael). She also leaves a loving sister, Beatrice (Lieberman) of Miami Beach, FL. Clara was predeceased by
 PODSTUPKA-Dorothy. Died on May 2, 2000 in Driftwood, Texas. Dorothy was preceded in death by her parents, George and Beatrice Ginnis, and her husband, John Podstupka. Dorothy is survived by many cousins and friends who mourn her passing, but will forever hold her in their hearts. Dorothy wa
 ROTH-Barbara R. Of New York, died on May 1, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Paul G. Roth, her daughter, Alexandra O'Mara and her husband, Kevin O'Mara, and three grandchildren, Nicholas, Ian and Peter O'Mara. Whether as a wife, mother or a friend, her generosity of spi
 SOLOMON-Sheila. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Sheila Solomon, and offer their deepest sympathy to her husband Michael, her children and the entire Solomon family. Alpine Country Club Harvey Nagin Pr
 TSAO-Josephine, C.P., age 39, died peacefully on Wednesday, April 26, 2000 at the University of Pennsylvannia Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania after a courageous battle with cancer. A native of Michigan, Josie held a B.A. in economics from the University of Michigan and a J.D. from th
 WIENER-Elsie. Oakland, CA. April 30, at 93. Born in Brooklyn, one year after her family immigrated from Mogilev, Russia, she lived in Brownsville with them behind her parents' candy store. Educated at City College, worked for the NYC Board of Education. Lived in Astoria and then Forest Hill
 DONNENFELD-Birdie. Wife of the late Samuel Donnenfeld, died on May 3, 2000 at age 96 in Manhattan. Beloved sister of Lillian Shir and mother of Jane Brill and Nancy Mintz, she is also survived by grandchildren Jennifer Brill, David Brill, Susan Berger, Robert Mintz and Karen Mintz, and 10 g
 FLUEGEL-Jane. Intrepid New Yorker, MOMA publications & artbook editor, died in Baltimore, May 2. Her grace and passion for people, words, art and music will be long remembered. Mass of Christian Burial, Basilica of St. Mary, Minneapolis, May 16, 10AM.       
 GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Beloved wife of Efraim Grinberg, cherished mother of Margot and Sam. Beloved daughter of Annabelle and Bernard Fishman. Daughter-in-law of Sonia and Gedalio Grinberg. Sister of Mark and Jill Fishman, and Susan and David Kohen. Sister-in-law to Miriam and David Phalen,
 HISS-Isabel Johnson (nee Dowden), widow of the late Alger Hiss, passed away peacefully at her Manhattan home, on May 3, 2000. She was 92 years old. Mrs. Hiss was born and raised in Montclair, New Jersey, the only child of Elsie Ruckelshaus Dowden and Dawson Dowden. In her twenties, she beca
 HOROSHAK-Marilyn. On May 3, 2000 at age 64. Beloved wife of Eugene. Loving mother of Jackie Zirkman and Eric Horoshak. She also leaves behind a loving sister Sandra Guttenberg and daughterin-law Lori Horoshak. Funeral Friday, May 5 at ''The Riverside,'' 180 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue. 
 LEVY-Sadie (Hillman). Died May 3, Boca Raton, FL. A life long resident of New York, She is survived by 2 daughter's Jo L. Newnham of Westfield, NJ and Barbara Musen of Riverdale, NY. Funeral service May 5th. For more information Menorah Chapels, Millburn, NJ.       
 LOCOPO-Maria Grazia (nee Giugno) age 59, on May 3, 2000 of Garden City, after a brief illness. Mrs. Locopo was born in Italy. Beloved wife of Anthony. Loving mother of James and mother-in-law of Laura. Cherished Nonna of Anthony and Christina. Adored sister of Cosima Lazzari and Rosetta Giu
 MARROW-Molly. September 2, 1916-May 3, 2000. Molly, like her late husband, Harry, was born in poverty. During their sixty-year marriage they achieved the American dream by making the lives of their children comfortable and privileged. Robert, Victor, Norman, Ted and their families mourn the
 MARSH-Claudia. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Public Welfare Foundation mourn the death of our co-founder and first president, Claudia Marsh. Her commitment to helping others touched countless people around the world. We will continue to be guided and inspired by her vision and exa
 MARSH-Claudia Haines, pastpresident of Public Welfare Foundation of Washington, D.C. died Wednesday, May 3 at her home. She was 100. Mrs. Marsh was the widow of Charles E. Marsh, who established the foundation in 1947 in Austin, TEX. The offices were eventually moved to Washington, where Mr
 MUROFF-Greta Ericsson, on May 4, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Stanley and Robert Muroff and Dr. Joan Muroff Kane. Adored grandmother of Sherri, Andrew, Jane and Daniel. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Friday, May 5, 10:30AM. Interm
 STERNBERG-Marcia, 65, of Lawrenceville, died Wednesday at home. Daughter of the late Harry Tartalsky, she is survived by her husband John Sternberg, her mother, Florence Ruben Tartalsky of Asbury Park, two sons Jim Sternberg of Mill Valley, California and Jeffrey Sternberg of Wilmington, De
 WHITE-Eileen Kerrill. On May 4, 2000, at age 60, in New York City. Beloved sister of Robert White and Philip White; aunt of Maureen Ann, Linda, Kerrill, Kristina, Stefanie, James and Christopher; sisterin-law of Anna Mae White and Sigrid Kornacker and aunt-in-law of Rosalie Divall, all of w
 BERNSTEIN-Janet F. On May 5, 2000 of Chappaqua, NY. Mother of Andrea Osmun, and Steven Bernstein, MD. Mother-in-law of Thomas Osmun. Also survived by all her loving friends. Funeral service Sunday 12 noon, Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Interment Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla,
 GLYNN-Margaret Mary, 83. Passed away Friday, May 5. She is survived by two brothers, Rev. Msgr Francis J. Glynn, retired former Pastor of Holy Family Church, Staten Island, NY, and Robert D. Glynn of Denville, NJ. Viewing will be on Sunday, May 7, 2-4 and 7-9PM at The Donovan Funeral Home, 
 PIKE-Eleanor. The Auxiliary of NYU Medical Center deeply regrets the passing of our dear friend Eleanor. She has been a long time member of the Auxiliary and she will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her family.       
 WIENER-Elsie. Oakland, CA. April 30, at 93. Born in Brooklyn, one year after her family immigrated from Mogilev, Russia, she lived in Brownsville with them behind her parents' candy store. Educated at City College, worked for the NYC Board of Education. Lived in Astoria and then Forest Hill
 Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, her f
 BECKERMAN-Ann Louise. Precious daughter. Loving sister to Dan and the late Larry. A young woman of beauty, grace and warmth. An accomplished poet and gifted teacher. Her kindness and intelligence touched all who knew and loved her. To Ann's many friends, who visited and encouraged her, we g
 BRUNETTA-Doris Milena Fugazy. On May 5, 2000. Devoted wife of Frank Brunetta and late Louis V. Fugazy. Loving mother and mother-in-law to Louis and Madlyn Fugazy, Milena and Francis Del Torto, Christopher & Laurie Fugazy, Susan & Jeffrey Behrendt, Steven & Michelle Fugazy, and Doris Fugazy,
 DUCAT-Esther, 85, died April 29th. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, superb teacher, will live on in hearts of those lives she touched.       
 FIELDING-Gertrude A. Died May 4, 2000 at the age of 87 in Miami after a short illness. A life-long New Yorker, Mrs. Fielding was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of the late Jeanette and Morris Aronson. She attended City College of New York, and then became a model for the John Robert Powers 
 LYDECKER-Sally McCormick, 85, of 88 Notch Hill Road, North Branford, CT died January 20, 2000 at Yale New Haven Hospital. She was the widow of Garrit A. Lydecker. She was born in Leonia, NJ, August 8, 1914, a daughter of the late Howard and Josephine Newell McCormick. She was a longstanding
 NARZEMSKY-Pearl. On May 5, 2000. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Devoted wife of the late Irving. She will be missed by her children Edith Segmond, Arnold Narzemsky, Shirley Lomanto and Ruth Staffa, their spouses, her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren. Services Sunday, 10:30 AM, at ''Gutt
 SIMKO-Dolores C. On May 1, 2000. Beloved daughter of Albina Taylor of Cleveland, OH. Memorial services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 980 Park Ave, NYC, at 6 PM, Wednesday, May 10. Donations in her memory may be made to the Gay Men's Health Crisis or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. 
 VOGEL-Bella (nee Schneersohn). Age 88. Died Friday, May 5, 2000. She was born in Vaslui, Romania, and moved to the U.S. when her husband Alfons Vogel (deceased) joined the Romanian Diplomatic Corps in Washington. She is survived by her loving children Andrei Vogel and Anita Vogel Hoffman, b
 PITMAN-Adriane Kleban. In memory of a loving daughter, caring mother and fond grandmother who passed away April 26, 1998. She was a free spirit with a zest for life.       
 Teri Thornton, a jazz singer who had started to resurrect her career after winning the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in 1998 and being signed to a major record label for the first time in three decades, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey.
 BIRENBACH-Marjorie. Of NYC, passed away Sunday, May 7, 2000. She is survived by her son Robert and daughter-in-law Gail, and her daughter Nancy Romm. Also survived by her three grandchildren, Tracy, Jeffrey and Jodi. Mrs. Birenbach was predeceased by her husband Selig. Services are schedule
 BROD-Carol. On May 6, 2000. Carol died peacefully, at age 57, after a difficult four month battle with complications resulting from treatment for a brain tumor. Carol was, for nearly 38 years, the cherished wife, friend and constant companion of Ernie. She was the proud and loving mother of
 FUGAZY-Doris Milena Brunetta. On May 5, 2000. Devoted wife of Frank Brunetta and late Louis V. Fugazy. Loving mother and mother-in-law to Louis and Madlyn Fugazy, Milena and Francis Del Torto, Christopher & Laurie Fugazy, Susan & Jeffrey Behrendt, Steven & Michelle Fugazy, and Doris Fugazy,
 KASSEL-Naomi. On May 5. Beloved wife of Mortimer H. Kassel, M.D., loving mother of Mitchell Jay and Sara Diane Kassel, loving grandmother of Adam Jay Kassel, loving sister of Thelma Goldstein, Anita Yarmis and Norman Ginsberg. A great friend to many and she will greatly missed by all. In li
 RAPKIN-Clara, DDS. Clara Rapkin's family celebrates her life. She was a pioneer woman Dentist, NYU Dental School Class of 1936, and a founding member of the Women's Dental Association. Dear sister of Fredda Lautkin, nephews Robert, Everett, Andrew & Jeffrey Lautin. Also, Ellie, Rita & Paul 
 VOGEL-Bella (nee Schneersohn). Age 88. Died Friday, May 5, 2000. She was born in Vaslui, Romania, and moved to the U.S. when her husband Alfons Vogel (deceased) joined the Romanian Diplomatic Corps in Washington. She is survived by her loving children Andrei Vogel and Anita Vogel Hoffman, b
 APPLEYARD-Katharine Gelbach, wife of the late Right Reverend Appleyard, died at home in Chester of cancer Sunday, May 7, 2000. She is survived by her four children: The Rev. Robert Bracewell Appleyard, Jr., the Rev. Jonathan Briggs Appleyard, Mrs. Jane Appleyard Roel, the Rev. Daniel Scott 
 BROD-Carol. We at The Psychoanalytic Center of Northern New Jersey, PCNJ, send our deepest condolences to Carol Brod's family. As fellow psychoanalysts, we knew her as a colleague with whom we worked to advance The Modern Psychoanalytic movement. She was a founder of The Brooklyn Seminars i
 CASPER-Lois. With great sorrow we mark the death of a loving friend and master teacher. Her commitment and dedication changed lives. She will always be present in the hearts of her colleagues, students and friends. Myra, Muriel and Joan       
 CASTELLON-Hilda. On April 25. Devoted wife of Federico Castellon and loving mother of Paul, both of whom predeceased her. She is survived by her beloved grandson, Andres of Madrid, Spain and her fondly remembered brother Leonard Greenfield of New York. Memorial service to be held at a futur
 DOORNBOSCH-Ruth E. (nee Lindholm), age eighty-one, of Oradell, NJ, formerly of NYC an May 7, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jan Doornbosch. Devoted mother of Wicker W. and wife Jill H. Doornbosch. Loving grandmother of Almajeanne. She was a graduate of Hunter College. Member of Hackensack G
 KAPLAN-Sylvia. Beloved wife of the late Harry E. Kaplan. Loving mother of Hetty and Steven Park. Sister of Leo Barbash and the late Ann Kaufman. Adoring grandmother of Elizabeth Park, the late Lara Park and Arlyn Kvares. Graveside services New Montefiore Cemetery, Tuesday, 1:00 PM. 
 MAYDAN-Dalia. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Dalia Maydan of Los Altos Hills, California, a visionary supporter of the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel. President of the ATS Northern California Ch
 WEISS-Ellen Sesser. On May 7, 2000. Of New York City and Fire Island. A young senior. Beloved wife of the late Jerome A. Weiss. Mother of loving son Michael Armand and wife Katherine. Grandmother of precious twins Mark Alexander and Daphne Rebecca. Sister of beloved, darling Shirley Bakal, 
 WILCOX-Elizabeth, 84, died on May 6th at Evergreen Woods in North Branford, CT. She had lived in Riverdale, New York before retiring in Redding, Connecticut. Her husband of 60 years Herbert B. Wilcox, Jr. M.D., died in 1997. Starting with children's photography, she developed a career that 
 Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. She was 85. Dr. Turner added volumes to the underst
 BRUEN-Marian Stuyvesant Gray. On 7 May, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward F.L. Bruen, mother of Marian A.B. Marrin and Nicholas L. Bruen, grandmother of Minet A.B. Marrin. Funeral services on Wednesday, 17 May at Church of the Advent, Westbury, L.I. at 11AM. Contributions in her memory may be ma
 CONKLING - Sylvia Alexander, born on September 5, 1920, daughter of the late Edward Renick Alexander, a patent attorney, and the late Elise Hoban Alexander of Cleveland, OH, Washington, DC, and East Hampton, NY, died on the evening of May 7, 2000 at New York United Hospital in Port Chester,
 CROTHERS-Lucy A. (nee Tutunjian). October 4, 1919-May 8, 2000. Survived by her daughter, Diane Scholz, and sons, David and Sam, sisters Alice Basralian and Virginia Tutunjian, and brother Thomas Tutunjian. Grandmother of Lisa Thies and Lori Crothers, Eugene Scholz Kocienski, Joseph, Robert 
 DIETZGEN-Carole Mertens of Indian Wells, California. Died April 24, 2000. Wife of Walter who died on August 8, 1999. She is survived by her sons, Henry of Reno, NV, Charles of NYC, and Mark of Phoenix, AZ, and grandchildren, Alexandra, Tasha, Conor and Delaney. Carole was not only a loving 
 EDWARDS-Rosalie. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Rosalie Edwards and extend to her bereaved husband, Donald and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler
 HABER-Ruth. Cherished wife of Ted. Devoted mother of Muriel and Bonnie. Adored grandmother of the late Robert Warren Haber Gilbert. Loving mother-in-law of Sven Mohr. Beloved sister of Eddie and Hilda, Sol and Gertie, Ray and Ursula Aronow. Loved cousin of Murray and Elsie, Milton and Franc
 KASPER-Lois. With great sorrow we mark the death of a loving friend and master teacher. Her commitment and dedication changed lives. She will always be present in the hearts of her colleagues, students and friends. Myra, Muriel and Joan       
 KUNSTLER-Phyllis Friedman. Of Rye, NY, died suddenly on May 9, 2000. Wife of the late Michael J. Kunstler, beloved mother of Susan Y. Kunstler, and the late William H. Kunstler. Children's Librarian for over 20 years at Port Chester Public Library. Beloved sister, aunt, and cousin to so man
 RISKIN - Mildred. Formerly Mildred Kaufman of New York City, and West End, Long Branch, New Jersey passed away May 8. She is terribly missed by her wrought up husband, Julian Riskin. Graveside services at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, New Jersey on Wednesday, May 10 at 2 PM.       
 SCHWARTZ-Sylvia. On May 9, 2000. Beloved wife of Milton. Treasured by her niece and nephew, Linda & Paul Wattenberg, cousins, Anita and George Gilder, great nieces and nephews, brother-inlaw Arthur and sister-in-law Ida. Sister of the late Toby Newman, Norman Cohen, and aunt of the late Mar
 SELIGMANN-Esther (nee Arnhold). May 5, age 82. Teacher of dance and the Alexander Technique. Beloved wife of Otto, sister of Henry Arnhold and Ruth Steiner, mother of Katherine, Michael, Peter and Monica, with nine grandchildren, one great-grandchild. She brought joy and dance to all who kn
 SHAPIRO-Renate, on May 8, 2000. Cherished wife of Sidney, loving mother of Darek and the late David. Services Wednesday, 11:45AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment Knollwood Park Cemetery, Ridgewood, New York. SHAPIRO-Renate. Central Synagogue records
 VAN DYKE-Barbara M., 75, passed away peacefully at home on Sunday, May 7, 2000. A funeral service will be held on Friday, May 12 at 3:00PM at the Stowe Community Church. For further information contact Stafford Funeral Home in Stowe. VAN DYKE-Barbara. In loving remembrance of a lead
 WILCOX-Elizabeth, 84, died on May 6th at Evergreen Woods in North Branford, CT. She had lived in Riverdale, New York before retiring in Redding, Connecticut. Her husband of 60 years Herbert B. Wilcox, Jr. M.D., died in 1997. Starting with children's photography, she developed a career that 
 BRUEN-Marian Stuyvesant Gray. On 7 May, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward F.L. Bruen, mother of Marian A.B. Marrin and Nicholas L. Bruen, grandmother of Minet A.B. Marrin. Funeral services on Wednesday, 17 May at Church of the Advent, Westbury, L.I. at 11AM. Contributions in her memory may be ma
 CONTILLO-Merrie R. Beloved wife of Michael. Devoted mother of Danielle, Amanda and Erica. Loving daughter of Mildred Katz. Dear sister of Andrew Katz. Services today 1PM at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, New York. CONTILLO-Merrie. The members, Board of Governors, and
 ECKSTEIN-Anita May. Our hero, lost her battle with ovarian cancer in the evening of May 9, 2000. She is survived by her loving son John, Jr. and her other loves Oscar and Carla. She leaves behind her brother, Elliot Blum, sisters-in-law, Deborah Blum and Ann Reifman, her loving niece and ne
 GORDON-Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Julius Gordon. Devoted mother of David, Ruth and Naomi. Loving grandmother of Rachel, Julie, Paul, Joel, and Judith. Dear great-grandmother of Lily, Eden, Isabella and Joshua. Services on Thursday, May 11th, 1 PM, New Mount Sinai Cemetery, St. 
 KUNSTLER-Phyllis Friedman. Of Rye, NY, died suddenly on May 9, 2000. Wife of the late Michael J. Kunstler, beloved mother of Susan Y. Kunstler, and the late William H. Kunstler. Children's Librarian for over 20 years at Port Chester Public Library. Beloved sister, aunt, and cousin to so man
 LEARMONT-Carol Louise. Died on May 10, 2000 in New York City. Dean Learmont, born on September 5, 1927 in Meriden, CT, retired from The School of Library Service, Columbia University, in The City of New York. She is survived by her sister, Judith Learmont. Private services.       
 SHAPIRO-Renate. The New Museum of Contemporary Art family mourns the loss of Renate Shapiro. She was a supportive friend of the Museum from its earliest beginning. Her positive spirit, beauty, and regal demeanor lent credence to the program of the New Museum. The memory of Renate will conti
 WHITE-Helaine Shari. On May 9, 2000 at age 33. Taken from us all too soon. Beloved daughter of Donald and Rhoda White. Devoted and cherished sister of Renee and Hillari and their husbands, Ronnie Spiegel and Peter Boritz. Adored aunt of Samantha and Brittany Reeps and Marc Spiegel. Treasure
 BECK-Dorothy Fahs, Dr., Sociologist and Humanitarian. Retired Research Director of the Family Service Association of America, died May 5 at 94. She was widely admired for her insightful research work on family issues and for her broad commitment to the advancement of social justice. Readers
 COBARRUBIA - SALTZMAN - Jodi. May 8, 2000. Seattle, Washington. Died suddenly age 34. Beloved wife of Frank, loving daughter of Muriel and Ralph, sister of Lisa. Her love of life will live on in the hearts of those she touched. You will always be in our hearts. Contributions in her memory m
 CROTHERS-Lucy A. (nee Tutunjian). October 4, 1910-May 8, 2000. Survived by her daughter, Diane Scholz, and sons, David and Sam, sisters Alice Basralian and Virginia Tutunjian, and brother Thomas Tutunjian. Grandmother of Lisa Thies and Lori Crothers, Eugene Scholz Kocienski, Joseph, Robert 
 GALLIONE-John J. On May 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Dori. Devoted father of Joy Martinez and her husband Ernesto, Gale Cohen and her husband Michael and the late Jan Gallione. Cherished grandfather of Grace and Jesse Martinez and Jonathan and Allison Cohen. Devoted brother of Joyce Binder.
 KRAUS-Joanne P. Born May 27, 1930 in NYC to the late Charlotte and Ralph Kraus. Died May 3, 2000 in Beverly Hills, CA of cancer. She leaves sister and brother-in-law, Barbara and Jackie Cooper of Beverly Hills; nephews Russell Cooper of Manhattan & John Cooper of Marin, CA and niece Cristin
 KUNSTLER-Phyllis Friedman. Of Rye, NY, died suddenly on May 9, 2000. Wife of the late Michael J. Kunstler, beloved mother of Susan Y. Kunstler, and the late William H. Kunstler. Children's Librarian for over 20 years at Port Chester Public Library. Beloved sister, aunt, and cousin to so man
 WILLCUTS-Mildred G. Of New York City. After attending the University of Wisconsin, she worked for the National Labor Relations Board in Washington, D.C. and Minneapolis. In 1947, she came to New York and became legal secretary and office manager for Lawrence R. Condon and, more recently, fo
 FEINGOLD-Evelyn Hyman formerly of Forest Hills, New York, wife of the late Nathan Feingold, died May 11, age 93 in Connecticut. She was a teacher and District Health Ed Supervisor and, from 1958 through 1970, principal of PS66 in Queens. She co-authored the Health Education Curriculum for N
 GROSS-Ruth. On May 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Stewart. Loving mother of Fred, Alan and Paula. Dear sister of Harriet and the late Doris. Adoring grandmother of Stephanie and Samuel. Loving companion of Leonard Sherman. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday 11:45 AM at ''The 
 Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92. Dr. Rheingold did not begin her specialized research until she was 45, after 20 years of pa
 Elizabeth Wilcox, who took more than 100,000 sensitive photographs chronicling 35 years of medical care at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and then gave them to the center, died on May 6 at a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. She was 84 and had lived in the Riverdale sectio
 CHINAI-Rukma, M.D. (nee Dr. Mirchandani) on May 12, 2000 at age 71. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Suresh Chinai. Loving mother of Anil and Aroon and grandmother of Mihir Chinai. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Monday, 11:30am. Interment private. Contributions i
 GALLIONE-John. Age 81, on May 11, 2000. Retired NYC Trial Attorney representing various trade unions and active in NYC politics. Served in WWII as Assistant Judge Advocate. Beloved husband to Dori. Father of Gale Cohen and her husband Michael, Joy Martinez and her husband Ernesto and the la
 GROSS-Ruth. On May 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Stewart. Loving mother of Fred, Alan and Paula. Dear sister of Harriet and the late Doris. Adoring grandmother of Stephanie and Samuel. Loving companion of Leonard Sherman. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday 11:45 AM at ''The 
 HANSEN-Isabelle M. (nee Dillinger). Age 74, of New York City. Died at Beth Israel Medical Center Sunday, May 7, 2000. She resided in the New York area her whole life. Wife of the late Martin C. Hansen & daughter of the late Edward G. Dillinger. Survived by her mother Elvira M. Dillinger (ne
 JACOBS-Shirley. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of Shirley Jacobs of San Diego. We extend heartfelt condolences to her son, Dr. Irwin Jacobs, and daughter-inlaw, Joan Jacobs. Dr. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm Incorpor
 MINTZ-June (Mirken), of Manhattan died in Atlanta, GA, March 26, 2000. She retired as editor of The Bulletin of the Hospital for Joint Diseases, Orthopedic Institute in 1992 and had worked in editorial positions on several other medical journals. Earlier she was an associate editor of Paren
 REICHEL - Josephine. Beloved wife of Rabbi Dr. O. Asher; mother of Rabbi Aaron, Miriam Bronner, and Rabbi Hillel; grandmother and great-grandmother; daughter of Rabbi and Mrs. Herbert S. and Rebecca Goldstein; sister of Simeon and Dr. Gabriel Goldstein, and Dr. Naomi Cohen. Past President o
 SPENCE-Kathleen (nee Kathleen Forbes Morehouse) 1904-2000. Died peacefully January 7 in Northern Ireland. She was the daughter of Mary Edith and Theodore Chichester Morehouse; educated at Wells College and received a Master's degree from UC Berkeley. In 1933 she married Thomas Everard Spenc
 STANFORD-Anne, age 65, of Bronxville, NY, died on April 13, 2000 in Palma de Mallorca, Spain. Anne began her world journey in Bronxville, New York, attended college & lived in New York City, completed her thesis in Africa and attended the Sorbonne while in Europe. She has been living in Pal
 STROUGO-Mary. On May 9, 2000, at age 86. Wife of Victor Strougo, and most of all loved mother like other good earth mothers delivered our eternal father's message of love, warmth, caring, hope, charity, sacrifice, forgiveness, endurance and strength, and to do onto others as you would have 
 REEVES-Minna. She was a mother of devotion, beauty, charm, and artistic talents. I could not have hoped for such a plethora of maternal assets that would so enrich my life.       
 Priscilla Rudin Stern, who took pride in being the daughter, wife and mother of rabbis, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Great Barrington, Mass. The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Rabbi Jack Stern, the former leader o
 BAUMGARDNER-Selina B., M.D. Of New Vernon, Harding Township, NJ, on Saturday, May 13, 2000. Wife of George R. Baumgardner, M.D. Also survived by her son James R. Baumgardner, Ph.D., and his wife, Ann Herington of Falls Church, VA, and her son, Robert D. Baumgardner of New York City. She is 
 BLACKER-Toby F. Age 85, died Saturday, May 13, 2000, in Mt. Vernon, OH. Survived by her daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter.       
 COBARRUBIA - Jodi Saltzman. Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Actors' Temple mourns the loss of Jodi Saltzman Cobarrubia, the beloved daughter of our dear friends of long standing, Muriel and Ralph Saltzman. We express our condolences to her loving family. Robert Goldman, President Noach Vall
 KARSON-Frances. Beloved wife of George, adored mother of Maddy & Ira Rubin, grandmother of Shari & Lowell Frey, great-grandmother of Allison & Sam Frey, sister of Rhoda Shapiro & David & Shirley Kwiat, sister-in-law of Florence & Murray Kane, devoted to all her nieces and nephews. Died peac
 REICHEL-Josephine G. We mourn the loss of our beloved Vice President, daughter of our founder, Rebecca Fischel Goldstein. Josephine's devotion to Women's Branch furthered the preservation of our heritage. Our sympathy to her family. Sophie Ebert, National President Women's Branch Orthodox U
 SERGI-LEOTTA-Adeline. Age 80, passed away on May 13, 2000, at Long Island College Hospital. Born February 24, 1920, to Vincent and Maria Sergi. She was a lifelong New Yorker and Brooklyn resident. She was very much loved by a multitude of family, friends and neighbors because of her caring 
 STERN-Priscilla. Age 65. Wife of 43 years and steady ally of Rabbi Jack Stern. Loving mother of Jonathan L. Stern, David E. Stern and Elise R. Stern. Grateful mother-in-law of Rabbi Nancy Kasten, Jamie Gardner and Steven D. Cohen. Devoted step-daughter of Lili Rudin and sister of Steven and
 Paula Wessely, a legendary Austrian stage and screen actress whose postwar career flourished despite her having starred in several Nazi propaganda movies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Vienna. She was 93. Ms. Wessely, whose distinctive voice was immediately recognizable to sever
 CHANLER - Randall W. died peacefully at her home in Golden's Bridge, New York on May 13th. She was 89 years old and the daughter of the late Captain Roger Williams & Frances Mcllvaine Williams. She attended Smith college. Her first marriage to John S. Rogers ended in divorce. She was subseq
 CONNOLLY-Margaret V. On May 14, 2000 at age 55. Loving mother of Craig, Alexa, Christian and Samantha Averill. Dear sister of Maureen Stenzel, Virginia Whelan, Helen Donohue, Claudia Johnson, Frances Kaschel and Christina Connolly. Beloved friend and companion to Edward Averill. Friends may
 REICHEL-Josephine. Ariel. American Friends of Midrasha deeply mourns the passing of Rebbetzin Josephine Hannah Reichel, of blessed memory; wife of Rabbi O. Asher Reichel, a member of our Board of Governors; sister of Dr. Naomi G. Cohen, wife of our Chancellor, Rabbi Shear Yashuv Cohen; moth
 SAYRES - Joan Gilpatric, 66, daughter of Roswell Gilpatric and Margaret (Kurtz) Gilpatric and wife of William Sayres, died May 13, 2000 at her home in Readfield, Maine. Contributions are invited to HealthReach Hospice Comfort Fund, 212 Main Street, Waterville, Maine, 04901.       
 SCHNEIDER-Toby. Wife of the late Mort Schneider. Beloved mother of Anne Amis and Dr. Bruce Schneider. Adored grandmother of Benjamin, Rachel and Yael Schneider. Cherished mother-in-law of Susan Weidman Schneider and Dr. E. Stephen Amis. We will all miss her wisdom, integrity and love. May h
 SESSLER-Anita Louise. May 13, 2000. Daughter of the late Jonas and Sydelle. She is survived by her husband Robert, sons, Scott and Lee, and daughters-in-law, Andrea and Madeline, and grandchildren, Ryan and Jordan. Sister of Stevie and sister-in-law of Rosalie. Funeral services May 16th at 
 STERN-Priscilla. We extend our deepest sympathies to our members Lili Rudin and Jeffrey and Donna Laikind and to our mentor Rabbi Jack Stern, Jr. and their family on the loss of our beloved Priscilla Stern. She taught us about life, its humor and balance. May she be at peace in the quiet of
 WALLACH-Lillian Weinberg Opatoshu, on Saturday, May 13, 2000. Wife of Ira, wife of David, will be greatly missed by son Dan, daughter-in-law Anne, stepdaughter Leah, niece Ronit, their families, and her many lifelong friends.       
 Verna Aardema Vugteveen, a late-blooming, prolific writer who regaled generations of American children with the folklore of faraway Africa, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88. Verna Aardema, the name on her books (of Dutch origin and pronounced AR-duh-
 Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her  daughter, K
 BERARD-Frederica Stevens, died May 12, 2000 at age 92, in Middletown, R.I. Daughter of the late Frederic William Stevens and Alice Caroline Seely Stevens. Predeceased by her beloved husband Philippe Roger Berard and her daughter Joan Hone King. Survived by her daughter Frederica Stevens Nef
 FIALKOW-Adeline (nee) Halpern. Died May 10. She will be remembered as a loving wife, mother, grandmother, sister and exceptional friend, and for her kindness and caring for all. She was the best and will be missed. Beatrice Okun, sister; Seymour Halpern, brother, and families       
 KING-Carol L., age 90, on May 15th. A native of Barbados, she was resident at Hamilton Terrace, NYC since 1939. Loving mother of Barbara King Muir, Gerald King, Robert A. King; mother-in-law of John C. Muir and Elinor King; grandmother to John Jr., Alicia, Angela, Jennifer, Marissa, Adriann
 McDONALD-Kathryn Austin, on May 16, peacefully at Mount Sinai Hospital at age 82. Loving mother of K. Ann McDonald, dear sister of Malcolm Patrick Austin, and adored wife of the late Robert J. McDonald. A former attorney with the Legal Aid Society's Juvenile Rights Division, Family Court Ju
 SARACHAN-Evelyn. Of Rochester, New York. Beautiful, stylish, spirited wife of the late, great, Judge Goodman A. Sarachan; mother of Donna and Martin Lawrence and Richard H. Sarachan of Rochester, and Niki Singer and Michael Sheets of New York City; grandmother of Julie Lawrence and Wlodzimi
 STARR-Nina Howell, photographer, 97, May 14, at home in Hamden, CT. Widow of Nathan Comfort Starr, survived by daughters Margot Starr Kernan, Penelope Comfort Starr, 9 grandchildren, 4 great-grandchildren. Two children, Lt. Col. William John Starr and Lisa Starr Rudd predeceased her. Funera
 ZEIFMAN-Betty. May 12, 2000. Mother of Hildy and Richard. Grandmother of James. Sister of Sol. Dear friend to so many, too numerous to list. She will be deeply missed, her memory cherished by all. Her Family and Friends       
 WHITE-Rowenna L. Wight. 20th birthday, 5/17/80-9/2/98. Born in New York; died in Nova Scotia. Remembered in China as the most beautiful Rows. By her mothe       
 Louise Tanner, a writer whose work often mirrored her Social Register upbringing, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The widow of Edward Everett Tanner 3rd, who, as Patrick Dennis, wrote ''Auntie Mame,'' Ms. Tanner was herself the author of five books, including th
 BERNSTEIN-Dorothea Beal. On May 16, 2000. Survived by her beloved husband, Abraham, whom she met in Paris; her loving son, Bruce; his wife, Catherine; her cherished grandsons, Eric and Christopher, and her dear sister, Edythe Rhodes. She worked for the British Ministry of Supply Mission in 
 HARRIS-Elizabeth Ann. Age 43, of Plymouth, MA. Formerly of Greenlawn, NY. Died May 16, 2000. Beloved daughter of Gordon and Sondra. Loving sister of Louis and Paul. A graduate of S.U.N.Y., Albany. MBA from Penn State University. Relatives and friends are kindly invited to gather at the Dela
 McDONALD-Kathryn A. The Board of Directors and Staff of Lawyers For Children, Inc. notes with deep sadness the death of our friend and colleague Kay McDonald. As one of the founding directors of Lawyers For Children, she generously shared her wisdom, dedication and enthusiasm with us all. S
 ROBBINS-Barbara Little, of Stonington, Connecticut. On May 16th, 2000, Barbara Little Robbins passed away peacefully in her home at 2 Cannon Square, Stonington, Connecticut. Mrs. Robbins was born in Brookline, Massachusetts on June 30, 1904. Her father was James Lovell Little & her mother w
 RUBIN-Phyllis. Her agony is over. Phyllis lost her struggle with ARDS, leaving an aching void in the lives of her husband, Martin, her children, Ellen and Kenneth. And her grandchildren Jessica, Amanda, Natalie and Michael, will miss their cherished ''Poopie''. Family graveside services at 
 SALSITZ-Felicia ''Fela'' (nee Kluger). Beloved wife of the late Leo (Leibush) Salsitz. Mother of Edwin. Aunt of Eva Wald (with whom she was especially close) and Marla, Stella, Halina, and the late Aryeh. Sister of the late Rosia, Mania, Leon, and Samuel. Born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust
 SARACHAN-Evelyn. Of Rochester, New York. Beautiful, stylish, spirited wife of the late, great, Judge Goodman A. Sarachan; mother of Donna and Martin Lawrence and Richard H. Sarachan of Rochester, and Niki Singer and Michael Sheets of New York City; grandmother of Julie Lawrence and Wlodzimi
 SCHEUER-Richard. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Shelly Schiff on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 SOLINGER-Ray formerly of Riverdale and Boca Raton. On May 17th. Beloved wife of the late Louis Solinger, loving mother of Maxine and Irving Lotter and Barbara & Phil Gips. Cherished grandmother of Lori and Glenn, Tracy and Michael, Jan & Matt, Steven & Barbara, Dru & Stefano, Dana & Scott, 
 SZANCER-Irena (Zilz). On May 17, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Henryk Szancer. Loving mother of Elizabeth Szancer Kujawski and husband Nathan. Proud and adoring grandmother of Melissa and Stephanie. Cherished sister of Melita Huppert and husband Victor. Dear aunt of Frances Huppert (Je
 VAZ-Cecilia Serafina Franco, on May 15th, 2000, age 92. Born in Goa, India 1908. Devoted and loving wife of dearly departed Sebastian. Revered Mummy and Muti of son Dominic and daughter Lea Rangel-Ribeiro. Faithful motherin-law of Marilyn and Victor. Adored granny of Eva, Eric, and Rani. Ch
 WILSON-Nelly H. Suddenly on May 16, 2000 at age 63. Graduate of Hood College, MD, longtime resident of Forest Hills Gardens. Member of West Side Tennis Club. Survived by her husband, George, her son Alfred and daughter Christine. Funeral services private.       
 BRISTOL-Sylvia. On May 16, 2000 at the age of 82, Sylvia passed away at her home in Hollywood, FL, surrounded by her awestruck family. Sylvia was a circumambient blur of love and wit who injected her soul into all those fortunate enough to have met her. She is survived by her slightly older
 FRIEDMAN-Harriet Knecht. Beloved wife for 53 years of Raymond; treasured mother of Claire, Terry, Eliot and Sari; adoring grandmother of Morgan, Gareth, Benjamin, Leo, Efrem, Giselle and Sophia. A cum laude graduate of Brooklyn College, she later earned her master's degree and taught at the
 GERSH-Bertha. On May 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William J. Gersh. Devoted mother of Phyllis Becker, Judy Hoffman and the late Victor. Dear mother-inlaw of Philip Becker and Daniel Hoffman. Loving sister of Blanche Lossef and Dr. Bernard Brooks. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, S
 GLICKER-Frieda. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Rebbetzin Sondra Gottesman and family on the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi
 HARRIS-Elizabeth Ann. Age 43, of Plymouth, MA. Formerly of Greenlawn, NY. Died May 16, 2000. Beloved daughter of Gordon and Sondra. Loving sister of Louis and Paul. A graduate of S.U.N.Y., Albany. MBA from Penn State University. Relatives and friends are kindly invited to gather at the Dela
 KAUFMAN-Dorothy, 86. Longtime resident of Larchmont, N.Y. died at her home on Thursday May 18th. Born and raised in Monessen, PA, she was the youngest of five children of Ida and Abraham Friedland. After her marriage to Jerome Kaufman on November 28, 1935, the couple moved to Washington, D.
 KELLY-Mrs. Thomas A. (nee June Hess), age 92, died on Thursday, May 18 from complications from a stroke in Croton, NY. Daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Harry Bellas Hess of New York City and Huntington, LI, she attended the Spence School and studied history and literature at Columbia University. She 
 LISSAUER-Diana Fraid. Born in Montreal; heart in New York. Lived courageously; died peacefully on May 18. Wife of the late Franz Lissauer; mother of Emil; sister of Elaine Rush and the late Stephen Fraid; sister-in-law of Bob Rush, aunt of Hillary Rush; loving friend to Mark Trujillo and th
 LUPIANO-Roselle S. On May 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Hon. Vincent A. Lupiano. Loving mother of Vincent and Paula. Fond mother-in-law of Joseph F. Conway. Dear grandmother of Elizabeth A., Christopher, Paul and Alexandra. Cherished great grandmother of William. Friends may call at Fr
 SANDELMAN-Jan. Of Highland Beach, Florida passed away Thursday, May 18, 2000. She is the beloved wife of Jeffrey Sandelman. Loving mother of Steven Sandelman and Elyse Sandelman. Cherished daughter of Rose and Harold Naiman. Beloved daughter-in-law of Susan and Sanford Sandelman. Dear siste
 STRAUSBERG-Mildred. On May 17, 2000. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, at age 83. She was the devoted and beloved wife of the late Morris O. Strausberg, cherished twin sister of the late Selma Worth, and dear friend to many. She is survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Drs. 
 WILSON-Nelly H. Suddenly on May 16, 2000 at age 63. Graduate of Hood College, MD, longtime resident of Forest Hills Gardens. Member of West Side Tennis Club. Survived by her husband, George, her son Alfred and daughter Christine. Funeral services private.       
 Eva BobrowEva Bobrow, who earned the first of three associate's degrees from Queensborough Community College in Bayside, Queens, when she was 64 and went on to become the institution's most important private benefactor, died May 12 at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. She was 92 a
 VOLLWEILER-Jennifer A. on May 18, 2000 at the age of 30. Loving and adored daughter of Steven and Catherine. Loving and adored granddaughter of Kurt and the late May, Armand and Jean. Loving and adored sister of Jill, David, and sister-in-law Kimberly. Loved and adored by Denis. Cherished A
 WILSON-Nelly H. Suddenly on May 16, 2000 at age 63. Graduate of Hood College, MD, longtime resident of Forest Hills Gardens. Member of West Side Tennis Club. Survived by her husband, George, her son Alfred and daughter Christine. Funeral services private.       
 Margaret Connors Driscoll, the first woman to be chief judge of the Connecticut Juvenile Court, died on Tuesday at the Carolton Chronic and Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Bridgeport, Conn. Judge Driscoll was named to the juvenile court in 1960 and 
 BOBROW-Ruth (Gureasko), age 90. Oct 10, 1909-May 14, 2000. Died peacefully in her sleep in Santa Monica, CA after a long illness. Born and lived in New York most of her life with her late husband, Jack. She leaves four sons, eleven grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Services were he
 HARRIS-Elizabeth Ann. Age 43, of Plymouth, MA. Formerly of Greenlawn, NY. Died May 16, 2000. Beloved daughter of Gordon and Sondra. Loving sister of Louis and Paul. A graduate of S.U.N.Y., Albany. MBA from Penn State University. Relatives and friends are kindly invited to gather at the Dela
 KATZ-Irene Resnik. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy extends their sincere condolences to Marjorie Fortgang on the loss of her mother, Irene Resnik Katz. Our thoughts and prayers are with you, Charles, Matthew, Terrie and your family at this sad time. May wonderful memor
 LISSAUER-Diana Fraid. Born in Montreal; heart in New York. Lived courageously; died peacefully on May 18. Wife of the late Franz Lissauer; mother of Emil; sister of Elaine Rush and the late Stephen Fraid; sister-in-law of Bob Rush, aunt of Hillary Rush; loving friend to Mark Trujillo and th
 McDONALD-Kathryn Austin, on May 16, peacefully at Mount Sinai Hospital at age 82. Loving mother of K. Ann McDonald, dear sister of Malcolm Patrick Austin, and adored wife of the late Robert J. McDonald. A former attorney with the Legal Aid Society's Juvenile Rights Division, Family Court Ju
 VOLLWEILER-Jennifer A. on May 18, 2000 at the age of 30. Loving and adored daughter of Steven and Catherine. Loving and adored granddaughter of Kurt and the late May, Armand and Jean. Loving and adored sister of Jill, David, and sister-in-law Kimberly. Loved and adored by Denis. Cherished A
 WAINWRIGHT - Janet Parsons. Passed away on Sunday, May 14, 2000, just 10 days after her 80th birthday. She was survived by her four children, nine grandchildren, and three great grandchildren. She was very proud to have been a member of the LVIS, the Garden Club of East Hampton and the Colo
 WEBER-Dorothy K. Passed away on May 18, 2000, in the arms of her loving and devoted husband of 47 years. Dorie was born on August 16, 1925, in NYC. She was a graduate of Hunter High School and Hunter College where she earned her BS degree. She went on to earn advanced degrees in English and
 WEINGARTEN-Margot, on May 19th, 2000. Passed away at her home surrounded by her family. She was the devoted wife of Stephen Weingarten. Loving mother of Bryan and his wife Margie, Jonathan, Jamie and her husband Adam, Ian and his wife Jodi, and her grandchildren Catherine, Sarah, Grant and 
 NAHAM-Catherine Kay, August 22, 1918-May 21, 1999, remembered with love by her family. Unveiling today at noon, Beth Israel Memorial Park, Woodbridge, NJ.       
 Barbara Cartland, whose outpouring of more than 700 romance novels during seven decades made her the undisputed queen of a genre for hundreds of millions of readers the world over, died yesterday at her home near Hatfield in Hertfordshire, England. She was 98. Throughout her profess
 BOSLOW-Rae. On May 19, 2000, well into her 102nd year. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Loving mother of the late Lt. Howard (Bunny) and Sydelle (Boopsey) Spiesman. Adored Nanny of Suzi Remer (Doc), Richard (Judy) and Michael (Melissa). Loving ''Nanny Rachel'' to Ali, Robby, Mollie, Katie a
 WIGDER-Rhoda. Green Brook Country Club mourns the passing of member Rhoda Wigder, and extends heartfelt condolences to her son, Robert, and to the entire family       
 FLEHINGER-SCHULTZ-Dr. Betty Flehinger-Schultz, a Biostatistician of 37 years for IBM, died on May 21, 2000 at the Sound Shore Medical Center. She was 78. She obtained her Ph.D. in applied mathematics. She is the beloved wife of William Schultz. Also survived by her children, Merritt Flehing
 KWAPICH-Cyrene. The Board of Directors and staff of Little Flower Children's Services of New York mourn the death of Sister Cyrene Kwapich after a long illness. Born and raised in the Polish American Community South Brooklyn, Sister Cyrene entered the congregation of the Holy Family in Phil
 LANSNER-Kermit I. On May 20, 2000. Loving husband of Fay and father of Gabrielle and Erica. Father-in-law of Eugene Villalobos and grandfather of Maya and Flora. The family will be receiving friends at Riverside Memorial Chapel (Amsterdam Ave at 76 St.), 10 am to 12 noon today. Memorial ser
 MATSIL-Annette (Chana) Roth. Devoted and adored wife of Milton. Loving daughter of Pauline Povill. Devoted mother of Ronnie, Paul and Pam. Beloved grandmother of Remi Kalmus. Loving sister of Beverly and Dan, Helen and Henry. Aunt of Naomi, Sheldon and Sharon and great-aunt of Ariana and de
 SILZER-Harriet Lamb at home in Bedford, NY on May 21st, 2000 after an extended illness.She was born in Brookline, Mass. the daughter of the late Pauline Ayers Lamb and Ernest Lamb. She is survived by her husband Parker W. Silzer and a brother David S. Lamb, two brothers, Ernest and Walter a
 HOCHBERG-Lillian. On May 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Rema Goldberg, Kera Greene and Victoria Hochberg. Adoring grandmother of Justin Goldberg and Julie Goldberg, Scott Herzog, Jena JakeFriedman and Seth Herzog. A strong advocate for civil liberties, she will be
 LENNARD-Loretta (Lola). A native New Yorker, Last resided in Scottsdale, Arizona, died May 22, at age 75. She is survived by her daughters, Bonnie Blum and husband Leonard, Lisa Zanfino and husband martin, Laurie David, and husband Larry, Granddaughters: Jennifer, Julie, Lauren, Amy, Cazzie
 NEELSEN-Joan Feldman, 68, of Fillmore, CA, formerly of Forest Hills, NY on May 22nd. Beloved daughter of the late Betty and Sidney Feldman, cherished mother of Jane Ehrenreich and Andy Eisenberg, the best Nana in the world to her grandson, Cole Eisenberg, loving sister of Robert. We will mi
 RUSSELL-Maria Muzio. Age 70, of Boca Raton, FL, died May 22, 2000. She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Bernard; her beloved son, David O. of Beverly Hills, CA; daughter Barbara Peloquin of Boca Raton, FL, and two grandsons, Nicholas and Matthew. Loving sister of Joseph N. Muzio of L
 SANTERAMO-Angela (nee Castellaneta). Died on May 23, just short of her 93rd birthday in Tamarac, FL. Beloved wife for 46 years of Michael who died on May 17, 1975, & sister of Leonardo Castellaneta. Cherished mother of Nicholas, Cesare, Rose Grove and Mary Devins. She is survived by her six
 SILZER-Harriet Lamb at home in Bedford, NY on May 21st, 2000 after an extended illness.She was born in Brookline, Mass. the daughter of the late Pauline Ayers Lamb and Ernest Lamb. She is survived by her husband Parker W. Silzer and a brother David S. Lamb, two brothers, Ernest and Walter a
 COOPER-Joy Rhodes, of Millwood, NY on January 24, 2000. Mrs. Cooper was a former U.N. Representative of the Overseas Education Fund of the League of Women Voters, active board member of the Bancroft School, in Haddonfield, NJ, and an Executive V.P. of Whiteswan Uniforms in Yonkers. She is t
 HEIFERMAN-Janet M. On May 23, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Carol West and Steven Heiferman. Adoring grandmother of Jason. Devoted mother in-law of William West and Karen Heiferman. She will be profoundly missed. Service Thursday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St
 KAITZ-John. The members and staff of The Falls Country Club in Lake Worth, Florida, wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member, Lorraine Kaitz and family, on the passing of her beloved husband, John. Board of Governors Kenneth Mahler, President       
 KANE-Betty K. On May 23, 2000. Beloved wife of Paul Kane. Dear mother of Caroline Kane Levy and Stephen Levy. Adored grandmother of Maya and Adam. Dear sister of Florence Steck and Dr. Sherwin J. Klein. Services Friday 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flo
 KOCOLATOS-Aspasia on May 24, 2000. Loving sister of Helen Kocolatos Demos and her husband Emanuel G. Demos. Devoted aunt of George G.E. Demos and Marianthi Demos. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Thursday May 25th, 7-9 PM. Service Friday, May 26th 11:30
 MARKS-Frieda Israel. On May 24, 2000 at age 98 at her home in Greenwich, Conn. Widow of Irving Marks. Mother of Myron and Leah. Sister of Sadie and of the late Minnie, Julius, Louis, Samuel, Harold and Dorothy. Grandmother of Dorothy and Marian. Greatgrandmother of Alexander and Crystal. A 
 ROTHSTEIN-Sandra Zuckerman. Of North Hills, NY and Boca Raton FL. On May 24 after a valiant battle with breast cancer. Adored wife of Edward. Beloved mother & mother-in-law of Edward & Susan Zuckerman, Ellen and Kenneth Slater and Linda and Glenn Gruen. Loving grandmother of Sam and Jackie 
 SACCHI-Eleanor V. (nee Kennedy), 87, on May 23, at Monroe Village in Jamesburg, NJ, formerly of Garden City, NY. Wife of the late Orlando A. Sacchi. Survived by her children, Carol Stoup, Eleanor McLaughlan, Richard Sacchi and Raymond Sacchi, and her four grandchildren, 5 step-grandchildren
 SANTERAMO-Angela (nee Castellaneta). Died on May 23, just short of her 93rd birthday in Tamarac, FL. Beloved wife for 46 years of Michael who died on May 17, 1975, & sister of Leonardo Castellaneta. Cherished mother of Nicholas, Cesare, Rose Grove and Mary Devins. She is survived by her six
 STAHL-Sadie. Died May 23, 2000, in her 95th year. Beloved mother of the late Irma Broad; devoted grandmother of Steven Broad and Jacqueline Stein; adored greatgrandmother of Ariel and Gillian. May you and Mom always watch over us.       
 SUGGS-Dorothy. Died May 19, 2000. Age 53. At her home in Melbourne, Florida. Mrs. Suggs was born in New York City and taught at Marshall Elementary School in Hempstead, New York until 1995. She is survived by her husband of 34 years Eldridge Suggs III, her son Neal of London, her daughter M
 ULMER-Janet Lees, 74, died Easter Sunday following a fourmonth battle with brain cancer. Mrs. Ulmer of Vero Beach, Florida & Ocean Grove, New Jersey was predeceased by her husband of 50 years, Kenneth Marvin Ulmer in September 1998. Mrs. Ulmer graduated from East Orange High School and atte
 BARCLAY-Elenanor (Paul), age 92, of 30 Bokum Rd. Essex CT, formerly of Lyme, CT, died Wednesda in CT. She is the wife of John W. Barclay and the late John K. Strubing. Besides her husband she is survived by her step-children Louise B. Rice of Cambridge, MA; John Whitney Barclay of Winston S
 KOCOLATOS-Aspasia on May 24, 2000. Loving sister of Helen Kocolatos Demos and her husband Emanuel G. Demos. Devoted aunt of George G.E. Demos and Marianthi Demos. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Thursday May 25th, 7-9 PM. Service Friday, May 26th 11:30
 McNAMARA-Ursula D. Mass of the Resurrection for Ursula D. McNamara, 81, of Bay Shore, N.Y. and New Smyrna Beach, Fla., who died Monday, May 15, 2000, will be held Tuesday, May 30 at 10 a.m. at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Bay Shore. Interment will be at Holy Sepulchre Cemetery, Coram, N.Y. Sh
 PAYMER-Natalie M. Beloved wife of Edwin. Devoted mother of Joel and Douglas. Dear mother-inlaw of Sheryl and Amy. Cherished grandmother of Heather, Jason and Sarah. Loving sister and sister-in-law of Martin, Libby and Marcella. Devoted daughter of Beatrice and the late Joseph Gamso. Also re
 ROTHSTEIN-Sandra Zuckerman. Of North Hills, NY and Boca Raton FL. On May 24 after a valiant battle with breast cancer. Adored wife of Edward. Beloved mother & mother-in-law of Edward & Susan Zuckerman, Ellen and Kenneth Slater and Linda and Glenn Gruen. Loving grandmother of Sam and Jackie 
 SADOFF-Shirley. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of Shirley Sadoff of Delray Beach, Fla. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, William, sister Marilyn (Mickey) Taub and brother-inlaw Henry Taub, president of the Tec
 SANTERAMO-Angela (nee Castellaneta). Died on May 23, just short of her 93rd birthday in Tamarac, FL. Beloved wife for 46 years of Michael who died on May 17, 1975, & sister of Leonardo Castellaneta. Cherished mother of Nicholas, Cesare, Rose Grove and Mary Devins. She is survived by her six
 MARKS-Ruth. Happy Birthday, Mom. Her song has ended but the melody lingers on. Joyce, Jason, Greg and Jordana       
 ALTABET-Grace. Beloved mother of Leonard & Linda. Adored sister of Sam Cohen. Loving aunt & great aunt. We shall all miss her warmth. Funeral May 28, 11 AM, Midwood Chapel, Coney Island Avenue & Avenue M, Brooklyn.       
 BARCLAY-Elenanor (Paul), age 92, of 30 Bokum Rd. Essex CT, formerly of Lyme, CT, died Wednesda in CT. She is the wife of John W. Barclay and the late John K. Strubing. Besides her husband she is survived by her step-children Louise B. Rice of Cambridge, MA; John Whitney Barclay of Winston S
 BROAS-Ethel S. Of Poughkeepsie, NY, died on Thursday, May 25, 2000 in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late S. Wilton Broas; devoted mother of Donald S. Broas, New York, NY; dear grandmother of Nancy Beth Gray, Donald S. Broas, Jr., Kimberley Anne Broas and Gregory Michael Broas, and grea
 CAREY-Elizabeth Ann. On May 26, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward Michael Carey. Loving mother of Edward C. Carey, Diane M. Cunningham and Jane E. Haswell. Mother-in-law to Moreen Carey, Myles Cunningham and Thomas Haswell. Adoring grandmother of Christine, Michelle, Elizabeth, Edward, Carolyn, 
 FREE-Benjamin J. Temple Emanu-El of the Palm Beaches expresses its heartfelt condolences to Florence Free on the passing of her beloved husband, Benjamin, one of our esteemed Board of Trustees members. May God comfort you and other mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Leonid Feldman Stephe
 GORDON-Cecelia nee Bachrach. On May 19th, 2000. Loving aunt, good friend, dedicated employee of the UJA for 40 years. Contributions may be made in her memory to that organization.       
 PAYMER-Natalie M. Beloved wife of Edwin. Devoted mother of Joel and Douglas. Dear mother-inlaw of Sheryl and Amy. Cherished grandmother of Heather, Jason and Sarah. Loving sister and sister-in-law of Martin, Libby and Marcella. Devoted daughter of Beatrice and the late Joseph Gamso. Also re
 ADLER-Doris Green, 93, of Oak Ridge, TN, died Sunday, May 21, 2000. Mrs. Adler was born in New York City on December 24, 1907. She is survived by her son Michael, of Moneta, VA.       
 BLOS-Betsy Thomas. Our beloved gift from God, returned to God, May 20, 2000. She will be eternally missed. Born in York, SC, Betsy was one of six children of Dunnie and Elsie Thomas. Betsy moved to New York City after receiving her Bachelor's Degree from the University of South Carolina. Sh
 CAREY-Elizabeth Ann. On May 26, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward Michael Carey. Loving mother of Edward C. Carey, Diane M. Cunningham and Jane E. Haswell. Mother-in-law to Moreen Carey, Myles Cunningham and Thomas Haswell. Adoring grandmother of Christine, Michelle, Elizabeth, Edward, Carolyn, 
 COSTIGAN-Winifred (Wini) Naomi, died peacefully in Lake Worth, FL on May 24 after courageously fighting cancer since 1996. Mrs. Costigan, 88, a graduate of Syracuse University, was a teacher at Long Beach High School and cofounded Camp Costigan with her late husband, the Hon. George B. Cost
 CROASDALE-Elsie Osborne. Widow of Stanley B. Croasdale. Died at her home in Englewood, CO, on May 27, at age 100. Born in Walsall, England, she moved with her family as a child to Nutley, NJ. She and her husband lived in Nutley and Madison, NJ, and Fort Lauderdale, FL. Mother of Joyce Croas
 CROSS-Marjorie, Age 90 died May 8 after a long illness. Her early career researching and translating Spanish documents for the San Antonio Historical Society led to an appointment in the Office of Censorship during World War II. Later she was an executive with DeSola Brothers, exporters/imp
 DAUPHINOT - MOORE - Cassan dra. We mourn the tragic death of our sister Cassandra, 38, on Thursday, May 18th of a heart attack. She will be remembered by us all for her spirit, energy & generosity. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her wonderful & loving children, Jordan and Bill. In li
 LEVIT-Doris. Beloved wife of Aaron Levit, and a respected educator and Guidance Counselor in Baldwin, New York, passed away on Sunday, May 14, at her home in Boynton Beach, Florida. She is survived by four sons, Stephen, Mark, Ian and Keith, their wives Margaret, Sally, Donna and Anne, gran
 PSAROUDIS - Jovanka, passed quietly at her beloved ''home with a view'' in Northport, New York, on May 24, 2000. Jovanka was a breeder, exhibitor and fancier of Scottish Terriers. Loving wife of Nicholas. Her funeral service will be held at noon on Tuesday, May 30, 2000, at St. Paraskevi G.
 RUSSELL-Maria Muzio. Age 70, of Boca Raton, FL, died May 22, 2000. She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Bernard; her beloved son, David O. of Beverly Hills, CA; daughter Barbara Peloquin of Boca Raton, FL, and two grandsons, Nicholas and Matthew. Loving sister of Joseph N. Muzio of L
 SBAR-Dorothy Hirsch, on May 26. Beloved wife of Sidney. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Eunice and Anthony, Victoria and George. Devoted grandmother of Benjamin, Daniel, Alexander and Nicholas. Cherished sister of Miriam, Ruth, Henry and Emily. She lives in our hearts forever.       
 STERNBERG-Shirley. On May 27, 2000. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of Paula, Jacqueline and Bruce, cherished grandmother of Eric, Samantha, David and Gillian, loved sister of Harold. Service Sunday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in he
 WEINER-Susan Lee. On May 21, 2000. Beloved wife of Barry. Devoted mother of Andrew. Survived by her loving parents Murray and Mattie Passman of Bal Harbour, Fla. and her sister Ellen Lesnick of North Miami Beach. Memorial service Wednesday, June 7, 2:15PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street 
 Emily W. ReedEmily W. Reed, who in 1959 enraged Alabama segregationists by allowing a book about a fuzzy white rabbit marrying a fuzzy black rabbit onto the shelves of the state's central library, died on May 19 at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md. She was 89. The confront
 CAREY-Elizabeth Ann. On May 26, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward Michael Carey. Loving mother of Edward C. Carey, Diane M. Cunningham and Jane E. Haswell. Mother-in-law to Moreen Carey, Myles Cunningham and Thomas Haswell. Adoring grandmother of Christine, Michelle, Elizabeth, Edward, Carolyn, 
 FREEMAN-Doris. On May 27, 2000. In her 86th year. Cherished wife of the late Maurice Freeman. Devoted mother of Carole and Richard Gliedman, and the late Stuart Freeman. Sister of Myra Clarfelt, Gerald Raperport and the late Helen Eppel. Beloved by her grandchildren Shari Beth and Daniel Mi
 LINN-Martin. Sisterhood of Forest Hills Jewish Center extends sincere condolences to former President Adele Linn and family on the death of her beloved husband.       
 Edele Nielsen Holtz, who helped create the Clark Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan and played an important role in Alvin Ailey's early career, died on May 20 at the Asheville Health Care Facility in Swannanoa, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Swannanoa. Ms. Holtz and her husba
 BLOS-Betsy Thomas. We are sorry at the passing of our esteemd colleague and friend, Betsy Thomas Blos. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Barbara Stimmel, PhD, Pres. New York Freudian Society       
 DOBLIN-Claire P. Beloved wife of the late Ernst. Loving sister of Eva and Jurgen. Cherished aunt of Thomas, Herbert, Margaret and David. Passed away on May 24, 2000. It was such a pleasure to know her and to be with her all of our lives. We will miss her.       
 FREEMAN-Doris. On May 27, 2000. In her 86th year. Cherished wife of the late Maurice Freeman. Devoted mother of Carole and Richard Gliedman, and the late Stuart Freeman. Sister of Myra Clarfelt, Gerald Raperport and the late Helen Eppel. Beloved by her grandchildren Shari Beth and Daniel Mi
 HALPRIN-Maxine (nee Rickard), age 72, of Hoboken, NJ, formerly of Juno Beach and Miami, San Antonio and New York City, died May 27, 2000. Daughter of the late George ''Tex'' Rickard, the boxing promoter and founder of the New York Rangers Hockey Club, who built the Madison Square Garden bui
 KENEALLY-Catherine E., 76, of Moriches, N.Y. on Sunday, May 28 in her home. She is survived by her beloved husband of 56 years, Dr. Francis J. Keneally, her devoted daughters, Betty Anne Conneally, Kathy Leber and Karen Devine, her devoted sons, Dr. Francis J. Jr ''Ken'', Timothy, Michael, 
 LARSEN-Patricia Pike, 79, of Cambridge, MA on May 29, 2000. The widow of H. Irgens Larsen and the sister of the late Nancy Pike Talbert, she is survived by five children, Siri Mortimer and Rikk, Peik, Per and Leif Larsen, her sister Daphne Pike Gratiot, sixteen grandchildren and two great-g
 LOEB-Ronnie, nee Eisman, 71. Beloved wife of the late Phil. Devoted mother of Carla (Leonard) Feinkind, Beryl (David) Hoffman, and Anita (John) Rafkin. Adoring grandmother of Jesse, Alix, Tamar, Ari, Molly, Charles, Madeline and Emma. Dear sister of the late Jerry Eisman. Fifteen year presi
 LUBAR-Patricia. On May 23, age 76, formerly of Port Washington. Predeceased in 1995 by her beloved husband Robert. Devoted mother of John, Nicholas, Stephen and Andrew. Also survived by five loving grandchildren. Memorial service to be held July 16 at 4:30 PM at the United Methodist Church 
 MESSNER-Virginia M., of Levittown, Long Island on May 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Malcolm. Loving mother of Thomas, Patricia Giresi, Christopher, and the late John William. Dear mother-inlaw of Terry and Antonino. Cherished grandmother of Patrick, Matthew, Antonino, Melissa and Zacha
 WOLLMUTH-Laurie H., 37, died suddenly and tragically on Friday May 26. Laurie was the greatly beloved wife of David H. Wollmuth. They had been married in 1986. She was the loving mother of John Hale (Jack), 5; Charles Edward, 4; and Grace Helen Wollmuth, 2. Laurie was raised by her beloved 
 BRUCKMAN-Asta Lillian. Passed away quietly at home in Franklin Square, Long Island, New York in the morning of May 30, 2000. Loving wife of Morris Bruckman, who passed away on October 25, 1995. Born Asta Lilli Guth in Freistadt Danzig on January 8, 1914. Fled Europe in 1939 with her mother 
 FREEMAN-Doris. Bar-Ilan University and its American Friends mourn the passing of Doris Freeman, one of our most cherished benefactors and friends. Together with her late beloved husband Maurice, she was deeply devoted to Bar-Ilan for a quarter of a century and served with distinction as Vic
 HERMANS-Avian, on May 29. Our hearts are broken. We lost a great friend who fought the good fight. We will never forget her courage and zest for life. Our love to Stu, who was her soul mate and who was her pillar of strength. Jody Shapiro and Jeff Dienstag       
 HERST-Elissa S., 32, died Monday May 22. at her office. She was a resident of New York City for the past 11 years. A graduate of Hood College, she was President of Zoom Associates Inc, a member of the Museum of Modern Art and the Children's Hearing Institute. Memorial contributions may be m
 LARSEN-Patricia Pike, 79, of Cambridge, MA on May 29, 2000. The widow of H. Irgens Larsen and the sister of the late Nancy Pike Talbert, she is survived by five children, Siri Mortimer and Rikk, Peik, Per and Leif Larsen, her sister Daphne Pike Gratiot, sixteen grandchildren and two great-g
 RICCOBONO-Beatrice M. Kaye. Downsville, NY, originally of New York City, peacfully passed May 27, 2000. She is survived by her beloved husband Justin of many joyful years and her stepson Lewis B. Kaye. Although educated and trained as a registered nurse, she is well known as a Manhattan rea
 SHAPP-Martha, age 93. Died peacefully on May 29, 2000 in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. She is the widow of Charles M. Shapp. Loving mother of William Glauber and step-son Mark Shapp. Mrs. Shapp was a graduate of Barnard College and had been chosen to be a member of the U.S. Olympic Swimming 
 SHEA-Anna F. Of Somers, New York, formerly of Jackson Heights and Rockaway Beach died on May 30, quietly at her home. She was 93. Beloved wife of the late William V. Loving mother of William A. Devoted grandmother of Paul, Christopher, Gregory and Jeanne Shea and Clare Gasparri & great gran
 STERNGOLD-Levona, died May 29, at age 73. She is survived by her husband, Henry; her children, Nancy, Arthur, James and Paul, and six grandchildren. The funeral will be on May 31, 2PM, at Hills of Eternity Memorial Pk., Colma, CA.       
