 ARON-Phyllis, 63. Of Stamford, CT, died Wednesday, January 26, 2000 at the Hospice Residence in Stuart, FL. Born in Stamford, CT, she was a winter resident of Stuart, FL., and summer resident of Stamford. She attended Beaver College in Jenkintown, PA., and earned her B.A. degree from the Un
 CHARNEY-Shulamit R. On January 31, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William Charney. Loving mother of Miriam Charney and her husband Roger Maltby and Didi Charney and her husband Jack Beck. Cherished grandmother of Evan Charney Maltby. Dear sister of Dr. Leo Steinberg. Fond sister-in-law 
 CLARK-Anna. The Board of Directors and members of the Women's City Club of New York mourn the passing of our beloved member, Anna Holbrook Clark, and we send our deepest sympathy to her family. Anna joined the WCC in 1926 and in 1986 she was honored by us for her outstanding dedication to N
 EBSTEL-Jeanne (Friedburg). Devoted and loved wife, gifted, intelligent and able. Legal secretary, photographer and painter. She will be forever missed by many. Died January 27 at 2:30AM.       
 FULLER-Emily Clarkson Hurry. Age 89 passed away quietly after a long illness, on January 30, 2000 at home in Oyster Bay, New York. Beloved wife of the late Stephen Dow Fuller, devoted mother of Emily Fuller Kingston of New York City, Ann B. Fuller of Big Horn, Wyoming, and Stephen W. Fuller
 HASKINS-Edna (Ferrell), of Westport, CT, beloved wife of Caryl Parker Haskins, passed away January 30, 2000, at the age of 88. Edna Haskins was born September 26, 1911 in Blyth, Northumberland, England. She attended King's College, Durham University, from which she was graduated with first-
 KAVA-Phyllis (nee Rudner), 67, died January 31st, 2000. Beloved wife of H. Wallace, M.D. Loving mother of Bradley, Laura, Candy, Larry and Jody. Adoring grandmother of Nerissa, Andrew, Ryan and Allie. A dedicated teacher in Irvington and Scarsdale for over 20 years. She had everything from 
 LUPO-Adela, 65, of Commack, NY. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Died January 30, 2000 of pancreatic cancer. She is survived by her only child, Jennifer, her son-in-law, Jose, two sisters, Carmen and Henrietta, a niece, Denise, a greatnephew, Vincent, and her two cats, Oscar, too and Felix. Servic
 ROSEN - Paula Luksenburg. Passed away on January 30th. Holocaust survivor. Survived by daughter Ruth Ravina, son-in-law Oscar Ravina, niece Rosa Alexander, two grandsons and three great-grandchildren. Services to be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 Street, Tuesday, February 1 at
 WEINRACH-Barbara Kaye. Age 63, with great sadness and a tremendous sense of loss we mourn her passing. A talented artist, teacher, beloved daughter to Rachel, loving mother to Maggie and Robert, Douglas and Jeanne, and Elizabeth and Keith, chesrished sister to Irwin and Mary, adoring grandm
 Mary Cantwell, who wrote essays, books and editorials for The New York Times, many about the changing public and private lives of women in America, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Margaret Lesche
 ANDREWS-Margaret. On January 31, 2000. Survived by her son Neal of Mechanicville, N.Y., daughter Leslie of Seattle, Wa., brother Robert Cherry of Tucson, Az., and also many friends. A celebration of her life will be held at the All Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Ave(80th St) NYC, Th
 COCKBURN-Sarah Caudwell, MA (Aberdeen), BA, BCL (Oxon) daughter of Jean Ross Cockburn and Claud Cockburn, lawyer, Banker and crime writer. Beloved niece of Billee, beloved of her family and friends and, indeed, beloved of all who had the privilege to know her, has died aged 60, on January 2
 FULLER-Emily Clarkson Hurry. Age 89 passed away quietly after a long illness, on January 30, 2000 at home in Oyster Bay, New York. Beloved wife of the late Stephen Dow Fuller, devoted mother of Emily Fuller Kingston of New York City, Ann B. Fuller of Big Horn, Wyoming, and Stephen W. Fuller
 GERSTEN-Stephanie Frangos. Mother, sister, mother-in-law, grandmother extraordinaire and friend passed on February 1, 2000 in the presence of angels galore. She spent her time here as an actress, photographer, poet, heroic single Mom and lover of life. Her enormous heart and lively spirit w
 LINDER-Rosalind W. Of North Lynbrook, N.Y. and Royal Palm Beach, Fla. Loving wife of the late Dr. David O. Linder. Beloved mother of Hope and Jack File. She enjoyed a long career as an educator of distinction. Family and friends deeply mourn the loss of this special lady.       
 MORRIS-Jean Deckinger. 90, of Flushing, NY, died February 1, 2000 at New York Hospital. Beloved wife of the late Florian, loving mother of Miriam Lastoria and husband, Michael, aunt of Susan, Alan, and Shea Meyers. She will be fondly remembered and missed by family and friends. Memorial ser
 RINTELS-Ruth Wyzanski. Of Teaneck, NJ, formerly of NYC and Brookline, MA, on February 1, 2000. Beloved mother of Constance Schnoll and David W. Rintels. Cherished grandmother of Suzanne Stempinski and Michael and Stephen Schnoll. Loving greatgrandmother of David and Lisa Schnoll. Devoted si
 RIVERA HEALY-Cecilia. Her friendship has been a gift. Always in our hearts. Ovarian Cancer Continuation Support Group, SHARE, NYC.       
 WELCH-Mildred E. (nee) Silver. Died January 31, 2000. Beloved wife of James for 57 years, loving mother of Janet, Lauren and John, cherished grandmother of James Jan. She was born in Boston, MA (West End), March 29, 1916, where she spent the happiest years of her childhood. She married her 
 Anne Hebert, a poet and novelist who brought the violent passions of her native rural Quebec to wider audiences in France and the United States, died on Jan. 23 at a hospital in Montreal. She was 83 and lived in Quebec City. Part of a post-World War II generation of Quebecois intell
 ANDREWS-Margaret. On January 31, 2000. Survived by her son Neal of Mechanicville, N.Y., daughter Leslie of Seattle, Wa., brother Robert Cherry of Tucson, Az., and also many friends. A celebration of her life will be held at the All Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Ave(80th St) NYC, Th
 HAIM-Edith. On February 1, 2000. Loving wife of the late Joseph. Beloved ''Ma'' of Margaret and Tony Nanni. Cherished grandmother to Elizabeth and John Roddy. Loved by all who knew her. Services Thursday, 12:30PM, at the Second Presbyterian Church, 6 West 96 Street, New York City. Burial wi
 HEALY-Cecilia Rivera. The Catholic Child Care Society (Saint Joseph Services) mourns the death of its Executive Director. We are deeply grateful for having had her come in to our lives and hearts. Deepest sympathy to her husband John, her mother Julieta and the entire family. John J. Bennet
 HIRSCHHORN-Ellen S. of West Orange, NJ, died February 1, 2000 after a short illness. Age 76, she was a Founding Member and Vice-President of the Jewish Historical Society of MetroWest and a co-President of the Essex County Chapter of the Brandeis National Women's Committee. She served as a 
 KUSHNER-Ruth, died February 1. The widow of Samuel Kushner, she was the mother of Kenneth, deceased, and Judith Felsenfeld, married to Carl. Also she is survived by her grandson, Peter Felsenfeld; great-granddaughter, Sierra; sister, Hilda Baker and brothers, Abe and Leonard Mokover. Her fu
 MADISON-Elizabeth C. On February 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Bernard. Loving mother of Bernard, Denise and Gary. Adored grandmother of Laureen, Keith, William, Stephanie, Russell and Gabriele. Great-grandmother of Loren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. on T
 MORAN-Helen Gary, 93, of Manhattan, on February 1. Daughter of Hampson Gary, Ambassador to Egypt and Switzerland under President Wilson. Widow of industrialist Bernard A. Moran. Helen is survived by her sons Bernard Moran Jr., John P. Moran and Michael Moran. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell
 RINTELS-Ruth. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President       
 ROSEN-Edith Hodes, 78. Passed away peacefully at her home in Key Biscayne, FL, on February 2, 2000. She is survived by her daughters, Margery Hadar of Manhattan and Victoria Simons of Key Biscayne, her son-in-law, Dr. Robert Simons, her grandchildren, Eric (Allison) Hadar and Joshua Hadar, 
 ACKERMAN - Audrey. Beloved wife of Arthur, devoted mother of Elissa Green (Jodie), Seth and Alan. Loving grandmother of Robin and Austin. Lifelong educator whose teaching career began in NYC elementary and high schools and extended into Kingsborough & Nassau Community Colleges. She was a ma
 BLUM-Lilly. The American Jewish Historical Society and The Center for Jewish History extend their condolences to our Trustee and friend, George Blumenthal and his family on the loss of their beloved aunt, Lilly Blum. She dedicated her professional life to unselfish medical research and in h
 BOGRAD-Pauline Klemes. Age 91, of Hackensack, NJ. A supporter of Planned Parenthood for 50 years. The Paterson, NJ center is named in her honor. Founder of Womens' American Ort in Paterson, first female president of Jewish Family Services of North Jersey. Mother of Joseph and Marcia Bograd,
 CELLA-Dorothy Anne, 74 of Glen Rock, NJ, died February 2. Mrs. Cella was a Vice President with U.S. Trust Co., NY, NY before her retirement in 1995. Survived by her husband Carlo D. Jr., 3 daughters: Dorothy K. Gallagher, Margot A. O'Connor, Elena V. Cella., four sons, Carlo D. III, John D.
 DANIELS-Mildred E. Beloved sister of Estelle Lee, Walter Danilowicz and Delores Danilowicz Gabriel. Died on January 24, 2000 after a prolonged illness. She was a pediatric nurse and director of nursing of premature unit at Mount Sinai Hospital for many years. Friends and family will meet at
 FISCHL-Violet. Beloved wife of Bruce. Devoted mother of Burt Wolfson and the late Kenneth. Cherished sister of Sanford Emil. Loving grandmother of Ryan Wolfson. Services today 12 noon at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. FISCHL-Violet. The Officers, Board of Gov
 GEFFEN-Betty A., (nee Gottheil), wife of the late Jacob N. Geffen. Survived by daughter Jo-Ann Geffen and grandson Jeremy of Los Angeles, California. She had three sisters, Gertrude Goldstein and Rosalee Heller, and the late Anna Bucker all of Montreal. The family appreciates contributions 
 HYDE-Margaret Willets, 73, of Devon, PA., wife of the late Donald R. Hyde, passed away on Wednesday, February 2, 2000, in her home after a lengthy illness. She is predeceased by her brother Chester Austin Willets, Jr. and is survived by her sister, Barbara Willets Hatfield, her sons Jeff, R
 MORAN-Helen Gary, 93, of Manhattan, on February 1. Daughter of Hampson Gary, Ambassador to Egypt and Switzerland under President Wilson. Widow of industrialist Bernard A. Moran. Helen is survived by her sons Bernard Moran Jr., John P. Moran and Michael Moran. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell
 SAFRA-Ina. The Brotherhood Synagogue notes with great sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved Trustee. Ina touched the hearts of so many and will always be remembered in the congregation which she loved and served. A memorial service will be held at the Synagogue on Sunday, February 13 a
 STROM-Grace. Survived by her cousins, Andrea Greenfield, Frederic Roehner of McLean, VA, Jill Drachman, Jonathan Greenfield, Jaclyn Lipman & Alex Roehner of Washington, DC. We will miss her deeply. Services, Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave (Ave. L), Brooklyn, today 10 AM.    
 WAGNER-Dorothy Lorraine. December 30, 1999 in her 85th year. Born in Lumby, B.C. Dorothy moved to NY in 1934. She is predeceased by brother William Lewis Wagner and sister-in-law Mollie (nee Bell). Loving aunt of Mary Gural and her husband Andy Gural of Totronto, Joan Wagner and her husband
 WELCH-Mildred E. (nee) Silver. Died January 31, 2000. Beloved wife of James for 57 years, loving mother of Janet, Lauren and John, cherished grandmother of James Jan. She was born in Boston, MA (West End), March 29, 1916, where she spent the happiest years of her childhood. She married her 
 Bonnie Cashin, one of the first designers to create and popularize that uniquely American approach to dress called sportswear, died Thursday after open heart surgery at New York University Medical Center. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Cashin was one of a handful of women in
 KENNY-Mary Jane. On February 3, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late William Francis and Mary Ellen Hickey Kenny. Survived by her beloved nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, February 11, 5-7 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday, Febr
 KRAUS-Janet. We mourn the loss of our dear and dedicated colleague. Janet was a wonderful person who never had an unkind word to say about anyone. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Tony, to her children Tom and Joanne, to her son-in-law Peter, to her four loving grandchildren
 LIEB-Alyce E., 88. passed away peacefully February 1, 2000 after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Myron (Mac) Lieb and her daughter Ann Carol Mabuchi. She is also survived by her granddaughter Kayla Ritt Yamada, her great-daughter Chelsea Skye Yamada and her grandson Scot
 MANELA-Harriette. Age 73, of Fair Lawn, NJ. Born in Belgium, emigrated to New York City in 1948 after surviving the Holocaust. Survived by her husband Marc, daughters Marlene (John) Sincaglia and Jacqueline (Jerry) Novin, brothers Chalom, Marcel and Albert (Dr. Lynne) Fremder, brother-in-la
 MORAN-Helen Gary, 93, of Manhattan, on February 1. Daughter of Hampson Gary, Ambassador to Egypt and Switzerland under President Wilson. Widow of industrialist Bernard A. Moran. Helen is survived by her sons Bernard Moran Jr., John P. Moran and Michael Moran. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell
 WAGNER-Dorothy Lorraine. December 30, 1999 in her 85th year. Born in Lumby, B.C. Dorothy moved to NY in 1934. She is predeceased by brother William Lewis Wagner and sister-in-law Mollie (nee Bell). Loving aunt of Mary Gural and her husband Andy Gural of Toronto, Joan Wagner and her husband 
 Anna Holbrook Clark, who transcended a secretarial job to become an influential policy adviser to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and worked at five levels of government, died on Jan. 28 in a Manhattan nursing home. She was 95. The era in which Ms. Clark served the dynamic mayor known 
 AXELROTH-Dorothy G., Dr. (Ph.D.) Wife of Robert S. Mother, grandmother, scholar, linguist, teacher, temple administrator and friend to many. Services Monday, February 7, 2000, 10 AM, at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, 425 Roslyn Rd, Roslyn Heights, LI. Family asks that memorial contributions be mad
 BALMUTH-Fay. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation sadly mourn the untimely passing of Fay Balmuth, beloved and esteemed daughter of our late founders, Phillip and Dora Brenner. Her involvement with our organization dates back, along with that of her dear fa
 BRILL-Florence M., on February 4, 2000, devoted wife for 56 years of the late Jerome; loving, proud and generous mother of Judy and Jerry, Arthur and Carol, and Connie and Jerry; doting grandmother of Irene, Robert, Jonathan, Paul, and Matthew; delighted greatgrandmother of Sophie; caring a
 BURNSTINE-Vera. Beloved matriarch of Joanna, Deidre, Benjamin, Bethany, Peter, and Barbara, peacefully at Peter and Joanna's home, February 4, 2000. Services Sunday, February 6, at 12:15 PM, at the Temple Israel Chapel on Saw Mill River Road, Hastings-onHudson, NY. For directions call (212)
 CASHIN-Bonnie. The Fashion Institute of Technology acknowledges with sadness the death of Bonnie Cashin, innovative designer of simple but elegant clothes for the modern woman. With Ms. Cashin, the Museum at FIT has been planning a major retrospective of her work for exhibition in September
 FREITAG-TAUSSIG-Herta. A legendary, internationally renowned mathematician, died in Roanoke, VA, on January 25th, 2000. Her specialty had been research in Fibonacci's theories. She had this rare gift: combining a limitless enthusiasm for her subject with a remarkable talent to teach it, and
 JOSEPH-Maxine Stern. Age 81, passed away February 4, 2000 after a brief illness. She was the Medical Director for the Methadone program for the New York State Narcotics Addiction Control Commission. She was the beloved wife of the late S. Seymour Joseph, M.D. Loving mother and motherin-law 
 KENNY-Mary Jane. On February 3, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late William Francis and Mary Ellen Hickey Kenny. Survived by her beloved nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, February 11, 5-7 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday, Febr
 KRAUS-Janet. We mourn the loss of our dear and dedicated colleague. Janet was a wonderful person who never had an unkind word to say about anyone. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Tony, to her children Tom and Joanne, to her son-in-law Peter, to her four loving grandchildren
 LIEB-Alyce E., 88. passed away peacefully February 1, 2000 after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Myron (Mac) Lieb and her daughter Ann Carol Mabuchi. She is also survived by her granddaughter Kayla Ritt Yamada, her great-daughter Chelsea Skye Yamada and her grandson Scot
 LIPMAN-Frieda (Altschuler), died peacefully in her 95th year on February 1, 2000. Wife of the late Harry Lipman, mother of Betty Weisberger and the late Irving Lipman. Private service was held at the graveside.       
 MANELA-Harriette. Age 73, of Fair Lawn, NJ. Born in Belgium, emigrated to New York City in 1948 after surviving the Holocaust. Survived by her husband Marc, daughters Marlene (John) Sincaglia and Jacqueline (Jerry) Novin, brothers Chalom, Marcel and Albert (Dr. Lynne) Fremder, brother-in-la
 MATSUSHIMA-Anne, MD. Thirtysix, passed away on Thursday January 20, 2000 in Minneapolis. She worked as a physician at the Presbyterian Hospital of Columbia University, New York, from 1989-1998, and thereafter at the University of Minnesota Medical Center. Her husband Matthias J. Szabolcs, m
 MELTZER-Marjorie. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company Continuum Health Partners, Inc. and with the physicians and staff of the Nathaniel Meltzer MD Division of Chemical Dependency in acknowledging with sadness the passing of a true fr
 RAYMOND-Josephine. February 4, 2000. Beloved wife of Dana. Loving mother of Catherine, Peter and John. Cherished grandmother of David, Nicholas, Anne, Jane, John, Kaila and Briana. Devoted sister of Gerard. Her spirit and energy will live on with us always. Memorial service Friday, February
 VAN BOKKELEN-Sally. 77, on February 3, 2000 in Bradenton, FL, formerly of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, NY, and Remsenburg, L.I., NY. Survived by her sister Virginia of Bradenton and brother Libertus of Nevada. Memorial donations may be sent to St. Francis Breadline, 135 West 31 St., NYC, NY 10001. 
 WALLACE - Rosemary (nee Friel). Of Maple Shade, NJ, suddenly on February 3, 2000, age 72 years. Beloved wife of William E. Wallace. Dear mother of Nora Ann Wallace, William E. Wallace, Jr., both of NYC and Robert M. Wallace of Allentown, PA. Grandmother of Claire and Andrew Wallace. Sister 
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. 6/4/30-2/7/ 97. Beloved sister, aunt, friend. May her memory be a blessing.       
 Sarah Caudwell, the British author whose modest but ecstatically received output of three erudite and maliciously witty mystery novels led at least one critic to compare her to Oscar Wilde, died on Jan. 28 at her home in London. She was 60. The cause was cancer, said Barney Karpfing
 BRILL-Florence M., on February 4, 2000, devoted wife for 56 years of the late Jerome; loving, proud and generous mother of Judy and Jerry, Arthur and Carol, and Connie and Jerry; doting grandmother of Irene, Robert, Jonathan, Paul, and Matthew; delighted greatgrandmother of Sophie; caring a
 FALK-Harriet. Of Leonia, NJ. Died peacefully in her sleep on February 6, 2000. Wife of the late Norman K. Falk. Mother of Adam, Abigail, David, Michael and Penelope. Sister of Herbert Krane. Graveside service Monday at 11 AM, at the Riverside Cemetery, Rochelle Park, NJ. For information, ca
 JOHNSON-Meredith. Age 53. Painter, writer, TV producer, and beloved friend of many who shared her love of art, music and living in the fullness of life, died in New York of cancer on January 30. After studying at San Francisco State, Hunter College and in Italy, she was 20 years on the Publ
 KENNY-Mary Jane. On February 3, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late William Francis and Mary Ellen Hickey Kenny. Survived by her beloved nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, February 11, 5-7 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday, Febr
 KRAUS-Janet. We mourn the loss of our dear and dedicated colleague. Janet was a wonderful person who never had an unkind word to say about anyone. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Tony, to her children Tom and Joanne, to her son-in-law Peter, to her four loving grandchildren
 RAYMOND-Josephine. February 4, 2000. Beloved wife of Dana. Loving mother of Catherine, Peter and John. Cherished grandmother of David, Nicholas, Anne, Jane, John, Kaila and Briana. Devoted sister of Gerard. Her spirit and energy will live on with us always. Memorial service Friday, February
 SICHERMAN - Aranka. Died peacefully in her 92nd year on February 6, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Morris; cherished mother of Lorraine Whitman Check and husband Ron; devoted grandmother of Michael and Adam Whitman; dear sister of Mike and Ernie Funk. Service held at graveside.       
 TOKAYER-Edith. Of Riverdale, NY, and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved mother, sister, aunt, died on February 5, due to complications from Alzheimer's Disease. She was 81 years old. She was a graduate of Hunter College and an elementary school teacher in the Bronx for more than 30 years. Member of Br
 VAN BOKKELEN-Sally. 77, on February 3, 2000 in Bradenton, FL, formerly of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, NY, and Remsenburg, L.I., NY. Survived by her sister Virginia of Bradenton and brother Libertus of Nevada. Memorial donations may be sent to St. Francis Breadline, 135 West 31 St., NYC, NY 10001. 
 Doris Kenner-Jackson, a founding member of the Shirelles, one of the first and most emotionally affecting of pop's girl groups, died on Friday at a hospital in Sacramento, Calif. She was 58. The cause was breast cancer, said her niece, Lauren Nance. Ms. Kenner-Jackson was bo
 Nuala Pelletier, the office manager for The New York Times Company Foundation, died of breast cancer on Sunday at her home in Sparkill, N.Y. She was 63. Mrs. Pelletier, a native of Dublin, was with the foundation, which gives grants to nonprofit organizations, for eight years.      
 BULLWINKEL-Dorothy Demling. Essex, CT. Died on January 30th. She will be remembered with love by daughter Joan Demling Reingold of Virginia Beach, VA. and sister Georgene Keller of Las Vegas, NV. as well as four grandchildren and two great-granddaughters. A memorial service will be held at 
 CASHIN-Bonnie. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the death of its longtime esteemed member, Bonnie Cashin. Her star will continue to shine. Joni Lysett Nelson, President CASHIN-Bonnie on February 3, 2000. A memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 FREEDMAN-Roz B., February 6, 2000, nee Schneider, of West Palm Beach, Fla., formerly of Philadelphia. Wife of the late Abraham E. Mother of Barbara Sassoon. Sister of Syd Auspitz. Grandmother of Daniel, Gabriel and Sarina Sassoon. Relatives and friends are invited to services Tuesday, 11:30
 HANDEL-Bess. Of Hollywood, FL. Formerly of Manhattan, NY. Passed away Sunday, February 6, 2000. She is the beloved wife of the late Louis Handel. Loving mother or Barbara Handel and Larry Handel. Dear sister of Leon Kobrin. Cherished grandmother of Jay, Sandi, Jeremy, Ellie and Sophie. Grav
 LAWRENCE-Christine D. Age 91. Beloved wife of the late Joseph, M.D. Loving mother of JoAnne Vicidomini and the late Christine Lafaro. Cherished grandmother of five grandchildren. Survived by her sisters Theresa DeSimone and Dolores Pilla and her brother John DeAngelis. Service at Oelker & C
 PELLETIER-Madeline Nuala on February 6, 2000 at her home in Sparkill, NY. Beloved mother of Alexandra, Etain and Kieran. Grandmother to Ryan and Connor. Daughter of Madeline Moran. Sister of Cecilia Moran, Marie Long, John Moran, Robert Moran, Clare Salvaggio and Joseph Moran. Predeceased b
 RAYMOND-Jo. Guild Hall honors the memory of Jo Raymond, a valued Trustee and a dynamic and vital part of the everyday life and events of Guild Hall for more than thirty years. Her contributions to the institution were many and her generosity of spirit unmatched. Melville Straus, Ch of Board
 FISCHL-Violet. She was my lady. My lady is gone. I will always love her and miss her. Goodbye, my love. Bruce.       
 KOENIG-Stella A. On February 7, 2000. Age 99. Adored and adoring wife of Mortimer H., mother of the late Dr. M. Glenn Koenig. Beloved grandmother of Mark A. and Scott R. Koenig. Also survived by Constance R. Koenig McIntyre, the remarkable widow of Glenn, and her husband Tom McIntyre; great
 PASQUALE-Margaret. The New York County District Attorney's Office notes with profound sadness the death of Assistant District Attorney Margaret Pasquale. Maggi was a valued member of the legal staff for 13 years who served as Deputy Bureau Chief of the Family Violence and Child Abuse Bureau
 REVSON-Julie Phelps. Former wife of Revlon co-founder Martin Revson, died sunday, Febraury 6 in California. She is the mother of deceased race car driver Peter Revson and Douglas Revson. She is survived by her two daughters Julie Revson of Richmond, VA and Jennifer Revson of Palm Beach Gard
 WALLACK-Janet Pearl. Passed away February 8th in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Arnold, devoted mother of Frances and William Deutsch, and Maurice Wallack. Loving grandmother of Stephen & Jennifer Deutsch, Peter & Lisa Deutsch, Susan and Torben Weis, and Jennifer Wallack. Adoring g
 ZWEIBON-Burt. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member, Beth Hait on the loss of her father, Burt Zweibon. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 GOODRICH-Virginia O., 79, of West Hartford, CT, suddenly on Sunday, February 6, 2000, in her home at Stratton Mountain, Vermont. Beloved wife of Ernest C. Goodrich. Loving mother of Ernest C. Goodrich, Jr. and motherin-law of Kathleen Maher. Proud grandmother of Jasper, Nicholas and Alec. M
 KARMEN-Belle. 92, widow of Hyman Karmen, beloved mother of Arthur and Steve and mother-inlaw of Marcia, cherished grandmother of Peter, Carol and Lawrence, Richard and Patty, Lisa, Abbe and Tom, Carrie and Santo, devoted great grandmother of Matthew, Mark, Erin and Jack, Savannah, Sean, Hen
 KENNY-Mary Jane. On February 3, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late William Francis and Mary Ellen Hickey Kenny. Survived by her beloved nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, February 11, 5-7 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Saturday, Febr
 KOENIG-Stella A. On February 7, 2000. Age 99. Adored and adoring wife of Mortimer H., mother of the late Dr. M. Glenn Koenig. Beloved grandmother of Mark A. and Scott R. Koenig. Also survived by Constance R. Koenig McIntyre, the remarkable widow of Glenn, and her husband Tom McIntyre; great
 KRISTEL-Linda. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Kristel family on the passing of our beloved cousin Linda. We will miss her greatly and remember her always. Marcia, Bruce and Ilyssa Raiman Stacey, Jay and Emily Simens KRISTEL-Linda. Temple Hillel, North Woodere, L.I. r
 KULLBERG-Ercell Harrington. Died Albany, NY February 5, 2000. She resided in New York City and worked at Windham House; The Chapel of the Intercession in the Washington Heights area and founded the Chapel Club there. She attended Hunter College. Funeral services Saturday in Albany. For info
 MAGER-Sylvia. Beloved mother of Peter and Alison, loving wife and devoted widow of Nathan, and for many years the beloved friend and devoted companion of Sam Levy and a gracious relative to her extended family and loyal supporter of her many friends, died Sunday, February 5 of a heart attac
 SCHLOSS-Louise Filer. In her 78th year. Died peacefully on February 4, after a long illness. Loving wife of Walter, beloved mother of Stephanie Scott, Edwin and sister Elizabeth (Betty) Filer. Nana to Katie, Emily and Jamie. Laid to rest February 9. Contributions in her memory would be appr
 SIEGAL-Vivian. The board and staff of the New York Chamber Symphony mourns the passing of its longtime board member and supporter, Vivian Siegal, whose devotion to great music, literature, and art was a constant inspiration to us all. Her insights guided us well. We send our deepest condole
 Mae Faggs Starr, an Olympic champion sprinter and the first renowned athlete of the Tigerbelle women's track teams at Tennessee State University, died Jan. 27 at her home in Woodlawn, Ohio. She was 67. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Eddie Starr. In the 1950's, w
 BERLOWE-Phyllis H.. Died peacefully on February 9, 2000 at the age of 77. Devoted and loving aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt, and highly respected and well-known public relations executive. Will be deeply mourned by her family and friends. A private family service will be held on Satu
 GOODRICH-Virginia O.., 79, of West Hartford, CT, suddenly on Sunday, February 6, 2000, in her home at Stratton Mountain, Vermont. Beloved wife of Ernest C. Goodrich. Loving mother of Ernest C. Goodrich, Jr. and motherin-law of Kathleen Maher. Proud grandmother of Jasper, Nicholas and Alec. 
 HOWARD-Edith M. M.D.. On February 9, 2000. Beloved sister of Dellora and the late Raymond and Fernando. Loving aunt of Eric, John, Armando and Abenaa. Devoted sister-in-law of Olive, Jane and Joyce. Mourned by many friends, who will miss her wit, her brilliance, her artistic talent and her 
 KRAMER-Lillian., on February 10, 2000, in Hollywood, Fla. Beloved wife of the late Rube. Loving mother of Judy Katz and her husband, Stanley, and Phyllis Gumbrecht and her husband, Gary. Cherished grandmother of Andy and Cheryl.       
 KUGHELMAN-Gusta. Wife of Sasha Kughelman and mother of Heda Massuda. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 LATT-Rheta Claire., of Melbourne, FL, on February 9th, 2000. Devoted wife of David Latt. Loving mother of Daniel Robert. Dear sister of the late Marvin James Kudroff. She will be greatly missed. Graveside service, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY, on February 13th at 12 noon.       
 LEIBLER-Joyce. On February 10. Darling wife of Charles. Loving mother of Mara and Guy. Dear sister of Bernard Schwartz. Mother-in-law of Renee' and Joel, and devoted grandmother of Isabelle, Samantha and William. A memorial service will be held in the Spring. LEIBLER-Joyce. My dear 
 MESSNER-Helen Kunze (Tuppy)., on February 9, 2000 in Trumbull, CT, formerly of the Bronx and Sag Harbor, NY. Beloved wife of the late William A. Messner. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Bales, William Messner, Katherine Coffey and Mary Messner Martin. Grandmother of seven, great-grandmother of 
 MORRISON-Pauline O'Gorman. Wife of the late Barclay Morrison, formerly of New Vernon, NJ and Hilton Head, SC died February 9th in Greenwich, CT after a long illness. She is survived by her daughters Pauline Morrison of Seattle, WA, Elizabeth Morrison Baker of Katonah, NY, Barbara Morrison M
 RUDOLPH-Blanche H.. Died on February 9, 2000. Blanche was a dedicated and gifted educator who inpired her thousands of students with a respect for learning. She is survived by her loving cousins and her many cherished and devoted friends and colleagues. Services at Boulevard-Riverside Chape
 SIEGAL-Vivian W.. February 9, 2000. Loving mother of Frederick P. Siegal and his wife Marta and Marian Krauskopf & her husband Jack. Cherished grandmother of David, Nina, Lewis and Katie. Adoring sister of Leonard Weiner. Former wife of the late Dr. Sheppard Siegal. Memorial service Friday,
 STARER-Rubin. Died February 10, 2000 at the age of 81 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Nora. Loving father of Ann & Ruth. Adoring grandfather of David, Rebecca & Jonathan Faust and Zachary & Daniel Starer-Stor. Proud father-in-law of Michael Faust and Robert Liviu Stor.    
 BARRETT-Dorothy. Died on February 10th, 2000. She was 94. Wife of the late Maxwell Barrett. Loving mother to Martin Barrett. Cherished grandmother to David and Stephen Barrett. For information call Zion Memorial Chapel 914-381-1809.       
 HAAR-Arline. Age 72 of Cliffside Park and West End, NJ. Formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ, on February 11, 2000. Survived by her sons, Geoffrey and his wife, Jane; Robert and his wife, Beth; and Gary and his wife, Natalie. Predeceased by her husband George in 1998 and her son Marc in 1989. Her gran
 KRAMER-Lillian., on February 10, 2000, in Hollywood, Fla. Beloved wife of the late Rube. Loving mother of Judy Katz and her husband, Stanley, and Phyllis Gumbrecht and her husband, Gary. Cherished grandmother of Andy and Cheryl.       
 MESSNER-Helen Kunze (Tuppy)., on February 9, 2000 in Trumbull, CT, formerly of the Bronx and Sag Harbor, NY. Beloved wife of the late William A. Messner. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Bales, William Messner, Katherine Coffey and Mary Messner Martin. Grandmother of seven, great-grandmother of 
 RUDNICK-Pauline, M.D.. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the passing of Pauline Rudnick, M.D., Clinical Professor of Psychiatry. Having practiced pediatrics for many years, she came in 1954 to Bellevue Hospital Center where she completed her residency in psychiatry. She 
 SCHOFIELD-Fannie., 98. Beloved mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother. Devoted Aunt Fannie to 3 generations. Volunteer extraordinary within the organizations she loved-ORT and the Godmother's League. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Godmother's League, NYC.       
 WRENN-Mary A.. Former Vice President and Managing Director of Merril Lynch, died Thursday, February 10, 2000 in her home in Easton, CT following a long illness. She was 74 years old. Ms. Wrenn was a longtime resident of Greenwich, CT and New York City, before moving to Easton 5 years ago. B
 BAUMAN-Dorothy. February 11, 2000, age 96. Wife of the late John Sprague Bauman, beloved mother of Mrs. Patricia Bauman Farnes of Minnesota, and Mrs. Gay Bauman Stodder of California and the late Corbin C. Bauman. She is also survived by ten grandchildren, 20 great grandchildren, and three 
 BERNSTEIN-Sylvia Harris. On January 27, in Mexico, at 92. NYC advertising executive-one of the first women to hold such position. Widow of the writer Hillel Bernstein; mother of Mary Bernstein and grandmother of Jessica Bernstein-Wax, both of San Francisco; sister of the late Jed Harris, th
 BRUNNER-Freda (nee Debold). Born in New York City, September 30, 1899; died February 4, 2000 in Pompano Beach, FL at age 100having lived in 3 centuries. She formerly resided in Forest Hills, NY. She was preceded in death by her husband of 57 years, August Brunner, on March 12, 1980. Survivi
 CASHIN-Bonnie. The California Institute of Technology feels privileged to have been a focus of fashion designer Bonnie Cashin's interest during the past 22 years of her life. She was intrigued by the confluence of art and science and encouraged our students to maximize their creativity. She
 DAVIES-Jane B. On February 9, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lyn Davies. Loving sister of Warren Badger and his wife, Harriet Ann. Cherished aunt of Anne, David, Wayne and Wayne's wife, Karen. Fond grand-aunt of Stephen, Mark, Eric and Katie. Architectural historian and eminent scholar of A
 LEIBLER-Joyce. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles and her family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary       
 RUSSO - Fortune. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 SCHLOSS-Louise Filer. In her 78th year. Died peacefully on February 4, after a long illness. Loving wife of Walter, beloved mother of Stephanie Scott, Edwin and sister Elizabeth (Betty) Filer. Nana to Katie, Emily and Jamie. Laid to rest February 9. Contributions in her memory would be appr
 SETTEL-Sylvia, 86. Died February 11th. in Syracuse, NY. Born in NYC. She studied at the NY School of Design and the Art Students League. She was an independent artist who had exhibits at the Donnell Art Library in NYC, the Harriman Library and the Hudson River Museum. Several select pieces 
 SIEGAL-Vivian. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Vivian W. Siegal, our dear friend and esteemed board member for over 40 years. Her years of commitment to the 92nd Street Y are deeply appreciated. Our hearts and prayers go out to Vivian's brother Leo
 STACKHOUSE-Thelma, of New York City. Died on February 10. The Board of Directors, staff and children of Leake & Watts Services, Inc., mourn the death of Mrs. Thelma Stackhouse who served as an active member of the Board of Directors for sixteen years. Her compassion, her advocacy and her wi
 WRENN-Mary A. Former Vice President and Managing Director of Merril Lynch, died Thursday, February 10, 2000 in her home in Easton, CT following a long illness. She was 74 years old. Ms. Wrenn was a longtime resident of Greenwich, CT and New York City, before moving to Easton 5 years ago. Bo
 JACOBSON-Bertha. On February 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Loving mother of Lorraine Podell and her husband Herbert, Gary Jacobson, and the late Audrey Jacobson. Cherished grandmother of Pamela and Allison Podell. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and A
 LEFF-Florence (nee Siegel). Formerly of Merrick, Long Island, passed away February 12, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Cherished mother of Barbara (Arlene K. Singer) and the late Roberta Leff. Beloved aunt of Debbie, Eileen and Alan. She was a ''Grande Dame'' who knew how to enjoy lif
 LEVY-Pearl G. Died peacefully at the age of 101, after a lifetime of philanthropy and service to the less fortunate. She was the widow of the late Supreme Court Justice Matthew M. Levy and is survived by her sister Evelyne and sistersin-law Myra and Ruth. Although childless, she was the mat
 PROSHANSKY-Etta W. Age 74, of New York, NY, and Redding, CT, suddenly on February 12. Her 35 years of professional life were dedicated to early childhood education. She began as a classroom teacher, then became a staff developer and later Director of Early Childhood Education and Staff Deve
 STACKHOUSE - Thelma. The Board of Directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and longtime volunteer. For more than 15 years she helped guide the Fund's volunteer initiatives and shared her wisdom and experience as a 
 REEVES-Minna. Sentiments of love and gratitude to a mother who gave so much of herself in bringing joy to others       
 Lenore Kight Wingard, an American swimmer who won medals in the 1932 and 1936 Olympics, died Wednesday at a hospital in Cincinnati, where she lived. She was 88. Wingard won a silver medal in the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles and a bronze at the 1936 Games in Berlin, both in the 400-m
 BAER-Ralph. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Lisa Messinger on the loss of her brother, Ralph Baer. May the family be conforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 BAUMGARTEN-Bessie (nee Largeman), on February 13, 2000 at the age of 97. Beloved wife of the late Max. Loving, devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Dear aunt, friend and dedicated volunteer at White Plains Hospital for over 20 years. She will be deeply missed by all who knew h
 BEAR-Ruth. In Florida on Sunday, February 13, 2000 at the age of 82. She is survived by her husband and six sons. Funeral arrangements are pending.       
 BELLINSON-Vivian. Born NYC on December 19, 1914, died on February 13, 2000. Mourned by her family and friends.       
 JACOBSON-Bertha. On February 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Loving mother of Lorraine Podell and her husband Herbert, Gary Jacobson, and the late Audrey Jacobson. Cherished grandmother of Pamela and Allison Podell. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and A
 KANE-Edith. On February 14, 2000 at age 93. Her beloved sisters, Fay Kane and Evelyn Moss, her brother-in-law Irving Moss, and her nieces, nephews and friends mourn her loss. Contributions to favorite charities are suggested in lieu of flowers. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 LANGELIER-Laura A. The Murray Hill Medical Group notes with great sadness the passing of Laura A. Langelier, the mother of Dr. Carolyn Langelier, our beloved friend and partner. We extend our deepest condolences to Carolyn and her family.       
 McCURLEY-Nora Esther. In her 93rd year, died peacefully on February 11, 2000 after a short illness. She is survived by her sister Elsa M. Crosa and daughters Doreen McCurley and Mary Lukinich and son-in-law Rex Lukinich. A requiem mass will be held at St. Agnes Church, 143 East 43 St. at 10
 RUSSO-Fortunee. Of New York City, died in Florida, February 11, 2000. Adored wife of the late Albert, loving mother of Katherine Russo Bernstein (Mel), Victor Russo (Norma), and the late Nicky Blumenthal (Bob). Doting grandmama of Kimberly Freed, Ariel Russo, Victoria Russo Bernstein, David
 SALZMAN-Pola, on February 14, 2000. Owner and Chief Executive of Paramount Cosmetics. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Sherry and her husband Gabriel, Sandy and his wife Nina. Adoring grandmother of Saskia, David, Valerie, Lauren and Nicole. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 STOKVIS-Joseph William. Dear Daddy, on the first anniversary of our terrible loss, we miss you more than ever. I talk to you every day. We celebrated Mom's ninety-second birthday with her. She talks to you too. With so much love always, Irene, Paul and Jonathan       
 GERTZ-Irma. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irma Gertz. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary       
 HENDERSHOT-Virginia Hosley. February 14, 2000. Beloved and adoring mother of Joan Hendershot Miller & her husband Herbert. Cherished grandmother of Christopher Alan Miller & his wife Gina. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 INGLIS-Leonard J., 84. On February 15, beloved husband of Marjorie, loving father of Susan Seal and her husband David Seal. Cherished grandfather of Heather and Katherine Seal. Brother of Florence Packman. Funeral on February 17th, 10:45 AM., IHM, Scarsdale, NY. Contributions may be made to
 ROTHENBERG-Helen, age 86 of Westwood, NJ formerly of Delray Beach, FL and Williamsburg, NY. She fulfilled her dream of being in all ways caring for us. We thank you mother dear, your children, Steven (EunHye) and Fredda (Sean) and your grandchildren Hanna, Sara, Molly and Ben. For informati
 RUBENSTEIN - Beatrice. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Beatrice Rubenstein, a volunteer for JBFCS's Family Court program and a member of our Geller House Divisional Committee for more than 25 years. In both roles, Mrs. Rubens
 SOPHER - Irene. Congregation Chasam Sopher mourns the loss of the mother of our supporters and congregants, Joseph and Jacob Sopher. She was a shining example for the family of how to live life properly. May they know no further sorrow and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusal
 SPIRO-Myrna. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Myrna Spiro and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Stanley and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 WHITING-Jane (nee Semple), 73, of Heritage Village, Southbury, formerly of Greenwich, CT, died on Wednesday, February 9th in Antibes, France. She is survived by her husband, Royal, of the home address, two daughters, Emily Kane of Seattle, WA, and Sarah Jenkenson of Wexford, PA. Another dau
 Jacqueline Auriol, the glamorous French flier who set several speed records as one of the world's leading military test pilots in the 1950's and 60's, died Saturday at her Paris home. She was 82. Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and marrie
 BALLANTYNE-Marion C. Died peacefully at home on February 15 in her 94th year. Beloved widow of the late Jacques C. Nordeman and the late John J. Ballantyne. Loving mother of Mary Ann and Jacques Nordeman, devoted grandmother of Landon, John and Eliza. Private services will be held for the i
 BEZOZA-Gerry, on February 15, 2000. Beloved wife of Nathan, loving mother of Ira and Howard, cherished grandmother of Jenna, Michel, Dana, Amanda and Tori. She will be forever remembered by her family and friends. Services at 12PM, Thursday, February 17 at Gutterman's Memorial Chapel, 8000 
 BROWN-Mary Murray. Beloved and loving wife of Leland Scott Brown. Loving mother of Morgan Scott Brown and Janet Brown Jussel. Beloved mother-in-law of Suzanne R. Brown and Christian Jussel. Grandmother of John Bradbury, Sara B. Robbins, Catherine M. Jussel & David S. Jussel. Died February 1
 COWLES-Margaret C. formerly of Ardsley-on-Hudson. Survived by her son Donald, daughters Susan Synder and Sara Walden, eight grandchildren, 11 great grandchildren, two nieces and five nephews. Predeceased by her husband Noble Pitt Cowles and a daughter Nancy. Visiting Friday 24 and 7-9 PM, E
 DRIESMAN-Miriam. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, sadly mourns the death of Miriam Driesman, our beloved colleague. Miriam, along with her late husband Alfred, was a cherished supporter of the Hadassah College of Technology and the Hadassah Medical Organization. Among their many genero
 EISENSTADT-Elaine. Loving wife of Martin. Devoted mother to her daughters Jane and Randi. Adoring grandmother of her grandson Will. Beloved daughter of the late Fannie and Lou Land. Sister of Mark Land. Cherished cousin, niece and friend. All will miss her caring and generous spirit.       
 HAAR-Arline. The Gerrard Berman Day School of North Jersey notes with great sadness the death of Arline Haar. She and her late husband, George, have been and will continue to be an inspiration to all of us in the Jewish community. Our heartfelt sympathy and condplences to her children, gran
 HENDERSHOT-Virginia Hosley. February 14, 2000. Beloved and adoring mother of Joan Hendershot Miller & her husband Herbert. Cherished grandmother of Christopher Alan Miller & his wife Gina. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 HERZ-Clementine. On February 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Ellen. Dear sister of Marcelle and Maurice. Adoring meme of Heath and Rebecca. Dearest friend of Kurt. Dear mother-in-law of Stuart. Service on Friday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amste
 KANE-Edith. On February 14, 2000 at age 93. Her beloved sisters, Fay Kane and Evelyn Moss, her brother-in-law Irving Moss, and her nieces, nephews and friends mourn her loss. Contributions to favorite charities are suggested in lieu of flowers. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 MUELLER-Sylvia (nee Price). On February 14, 2000. Survived by her brother Norman, nephew Michael Price and niece Claudia Forbes.       
 CARLISLE-Camilla. 77, of Ridgewood, NJ died February 16, 2000. Survived by her daughter Nancy and sons John and Peter and two grandchildren. A funeral service will be held March 4, 2000 at 11 AM at St. Elizabeth's Church, Ridgewood, NJ.       
 MOTTAHEDEH-Mildred R.. on February 17, 2000. Distinguished leader in the decorative arts field and Bahai faith and friend of the disadvantaged peoples of the Third World. Beloved wife of the late Rafi Mottahedeh. Survived by her children Dr. Roy P. Mottahedeh of Brookline, MA and Peri Yusef
 RUSSELL - Kathleen. Passed away February 15 at the Mary Manning Walsh Home New York City. A funeral will be held at the Incarnation Church, Madison Avenue at East 35th Street on Tuesday, February 22 at 5:30PM. Miss Russell's courage, elegance and wit will be greatly missed by her friends.  
 SUER-WILSON-Joy., 39, of Peekskill. Beloved wife of Greg Wilson. Loving daughter of Shirley Parnell, went home to her Lord and Savior on February 15, 2000. Survived by aunt Bev McGann, cousin Rudy McGann, uncle Nev Parnell, grandmother Everil Parnell. Memorial service at Refuge Temple, 2081
 Jane B. Davies, an independent architectural historian whose devotion took her from reference librarian at Columbia University to pre-eminent authority on the 19th-century American architect Alexander J. Davis, died on Feb. 9. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Although she never re
 BROWN-Mary Murray. Beloved and loving wife of Leland Scott Brown. Loving mother of Morgan Scott Brown and Janet Brown Jussel. Beloved mother-in-law of Suzanne R. Brown and Christian Jussel. Sister of Janet Mahony Wilson. Grandmother of John Bradbury, Sara B. Robbins, Catherine M. Jussel & D
 GREENBERG-Filomen D'Agostino. The entire NYU Law School community is saddened by the loss of Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg (Class of 1920). Fil, one of our most vibrant alumnae, had a lifelong commitment to the Law School. From her good counsel to seven deans to her extraordinary generosity 
 HUVANE-Genevieve (nee Ryan) died peacefully on February 17, 2000. Beloved wife of 47 years to Matin. Loving mother of Denise Whalen, Michael, Kevin, Stephen, Robert and Christopher. Cherished grandmother to Daniel, Sarah, Conor, Bridget and Declan. She will be forever remembered by her fami
 MOTTAHEDEH-Mildred R. on February 17, 2000. Distinguished leader in the decorative arts field and Bahai faith and friend of the disadvantaged peoples of the Third World. Beloved wife of the late Rafi Mottahedeh. Survived by her children Dr. Roy P. Mottahedeh of Brookline, MA and Peri Yusef 
 OSER-Irene. Beloved mother of Marty, Neil and David Oser. Dear sister of Esther Rinsky and Jesse Cooper. Cherished grandmother of Michele, Deborah, Gregory, Kim, Randy, Dean and Chris. Services to be held Sunday, 10 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY. In li
 Olgita DeCastro, who performed and recorded with her famous singing cousins, the DeCastro Sisters, for more than 30 years, died on Monday at her home in Las Vegas. She was 65. The cause was an asthma attack, said her publicity agents, Alan Eichler Associates. Ms. DeCastro, w
 BALLANTYNE-Marion C. Died peacefully at home on February 15 in her 94th year. Beloved widow of the late Jacques C. Nordeman and the late John J. Ballantyne. Loving mother of Mary Ann and Jacques Nordeman, devoted grandmother of Landon, John and Eliza. Private services will be held for the i
 DALSIMER-Adele M. Of Brookline, MA, on February 13th, 2000. Co-founder and Co-director of the Irish Studies Program at Boston College. Distinguished author, scholar, and teacher. Cherished wife of Dr. James S. Dalsimer. Beloved mother of Jennifer Dalsimer Archer and Joshua Dalsimer and prou
 DANOFF-Judith. (Ignatoff). Age 80, died February 14 in her 60th year of marriage to devoted Abraham. Fighter for humanity. Dedicated teacher, former Director of Early Childhood Education, Kingsboro Community College. Her spirit lives in her children, Saul (Valerie) and Ann, grandchildren (K
 DEGENSTEIN-Lila. On February 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lester. Loving mother of Lee and his wife Joan. Adoring grandmother of David and Michael. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monday, February 21, 11:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in her memory
 GOLDSHEIN - Miriam. Beloved wife of Herman, devoted mother of Mark and Sandy, adored grandmother of Laura and Steven. Died Saturday, Feb. 12, 2000. Her love of life, her kindness and generosity will be remembered by many.       
 HAINES-Harriet Kallen. Died February 17, 2000 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She touched the lives of all who knew and loved her with compassion, creativity and the spirit of adventure.       
 LEVENTHAL-Leona. On February 19, 2000. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Terry and Marvin Lerman and the late Linda Warner. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. Cherished sister of Selma Schwartz. She was an elegant lady who was loving and kind. She will be in our hearts fore
 MOTTAHEDEH-Mildred R. on February 17, 2000. Distinguished leader in the decorative arts field and Bahai faith and friend of the disadvantaged peoples of the Third World. Beloved wife of the late Rafi Mottahedeh. Survived by her children Dr. Roy P. Mottahedeh of Brookline, MA and Peri Yusef 
 SILVERMAN-Sarah. May 30, 1903-February 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Alexander, extraordinarily loving mother of Walter, thrilled grandmother of Aaron, Rachel, Thomas and William. Deeply devoted daughter of the late Rose and Nathan, loving sister of the late Celia, Jeanne and Max. Grad
 SPIEGEL-Motoko Ikeda. We regret to advise the community that Motoko Ikeda Spiegel passed away suddenly on February 14, 2000 at the age of 72. She was the loving wife of Si Spiegel and devoted mother of Kazuko Ono, Ray Spiegel, and Tamio Spiegel. She leaves five loving grandchildren and a sa
 VIDON-Loretta. All of us at the Donna Karan Company are deeply saddened at the loss of our very dear friend Loretta. She shared so much of herself-her passion and commitment. Loretta leaves behind a body of work which is her legacy. Althought she will be greatly missed, she will forever be 
 WEINER-Aaron M. Of Wayne, NJ, formerly of Elizabeth, NJ. On Friday, February 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Jill and her husband Marc. Dear brother of Rose Grossman. Proud grandfather of Danielle and Jessica. Graveside service 1 PM, today, at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, I
 ZOTTMAN-Roberta A., a New York native and member of the Daughters of the American Revolution, died on January 24, 2000, of a stroke in Sacramento, CA. She was 93. Mrs. Zottman received her nursing degree from Montefiore Hospital School of Nursing in New York City in 1928, and practiced for 
 GRIFFIN-Kathleen Therese. Of Park Slope, Brooklyn; February 19, 2000. Cherished sister of James, Arthur, Geraldine Griffin Murray. Beloved aunt and godmother. A great friend to all who knew her. Visitation Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9PM at Connell Funeral Home, 934 New York Ave. (Rt. 110), Huntingto
 KESSELER-Ina. On February 19, 2000 in New York City at 89 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Peter J. Kesseler, sister of Irene Gotthelf of Munich, Germany, stepmother of Dr. Howard J. Kesseler of Palm Beach, Florida and the late Dr. Edward P. Kesseler, and loving grandmother of the
 LANDAU-Edward A. Beloved and loving husband of Eve, devoted father of Steven, Ellen, and Robert. Cherished twin brother of Ann Kwitman and adored grandfather of Jennifer, Robert, Melissa, Devin, Jessie and Meredith. The family will receive friends at home between 2 & 5 PM, Thursday, Februar
 LEVINE-Frances. Joy, Barbara, Gail, Norm and all her New York friends mourn with deep sorrow the loss of our dear friend Fran. Her brightness of spirit, love of life, fierce independence, loyalty and sense of humor will be sorely missed.       
 SALZMAN-Pola. It is with deep sorrow that we acknowledge the passing of our dear friend and neighbor, Pola Salzman. Our condolences go out to the entire family. She will be sorely missed. Harbour House Westhampton Beach       
 Jeanne Simon, the wife of former Senator Paul Simon who forged her own public career as a prosecutor, lawmaker and lobbyist for literacy and libraries, died on Sunday at their home in Makanda, Ill. She was 77. Mrs. Simon had undergone surgery for the removal of a malignant brain tum
 EISNER-Helen. Cherished mother of Shirley, Philip and Arnold. Devoted Gaga of Alexandra and Lauren. As a young girl of 13 in Sosnowiec, Poland, she was taken to the Ghetto and then away from her parents by the Germans to the Gleiwicz Camp. She was the sole survivor of the Adler family. Hele
 JOSEPH-Jean L. Died February 20, 2000 at age 82. Loving wife of the late Maurice. Loving mother of Susan and Richard. Also survived by her sister-in-law Anabel Meister, grandson John and daughter-in-law Clare. Services were held February 21st. JOSEPH-Jean. National Council of Jewish
 KESSELER-Ina. On February 19, 2000 in New York City at 89 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Peter J. Kesseler, sister of Irene Gotthelf of Munich, Germany, stepmother of Dr. Howard J. Kesseler of Palm Beach, Florida and the late Dr. Edward P. Kesseler, and loving grandmother of the
 MARTOCCIA-Carmela R. (nee Neglia) Age 89. Devoted wife of the late Arthur R. Martoccia, on February 20, 2000. Dear mother of Linda Centurrino and Elaine Pantaleo. Cherished mother-in-law of Robert Centurrino and Robert Pantaleo. Loving grandmother of Brian, Laura, Janine and Kevin. Caring s
 NEWBOURNE-Joan Teichman. Died February 19, 2000 at Harbor View Nursing Home, Jersey City, N.J. at 97 years of age. Single mother, pioneer in the '40's. Export Manager for General Pencil Company of Jersey City. Started her own business, The Victoria Service Company, and Pen and Pencil Compan
 POSNER-Frances. Beloved wife of the late Reuben Freedkin and the late Harry Posner. Devoted mother of Ellen & Harvey Keller. Cherished grandmother of Robert and Marci Sheps and Nancy and Matthew Burns. Adored great grandmother of Amanda Brooke Sheps. Dear aunt. She gave generously of hersel
 SHERR-Dorothy Willis. Devoted, adored wife of the late Joseph J. Sherr. Beloved mother of Rose Lynn and Brian. Mother-in-law of Janet Sherr and Jack M. Pollock. Cherished grandmother of Alexa, Elise and Mallerie. Loyal sister of the late Mortimer Willis, Minerva Welitoff and Paula Spivack. 
 WERMUTH-Shirley. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime member and wife of its former dedicated Ritual Director, Rabbi Joseph Wermuth. We fondly remember her gentleness, friendliness and love for her family. May they all be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusale
 Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg, a self-taught stock trader who used her good fortune to help her alma mater, New York University Law School, grow into an academic leader, died Friday. She was 101 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Arriving from Coney Island one morning in 
 Mildred Root Mottahedeh, a collector of Chinese export porcelains and co-founder of a company that produced porcelain reproductions for several United States presidents and institutions including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last Thursday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhatt
 BENJAMIN-Frances Zisman.Died on February 15, 2000, age 97. She outlived two husbands Louis S. Zisman and Abraham I. Benjamin. She was mother of two, grandmother of six, great grandmother of 12. She was the family matriarch with the beauty of a Rachel, the forecefulness of a Rebecca and the 
 CHAPLIN-Arlene. Beloved wife of my lifelong friend, Harvey. Arlene was a devoted and loving mother and mother-in-law. Sweet as sugar-how much she will be missed by Harvey and the children. Howard S. Feldman       
 FLESCHNER-Helen. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a well respected leader in the Jewish Community, beloved mother of Miriam (and Dr. Alvin I.) Schiff, whose husband is a member of the RIETS Board of Trustees, and of Noah (and Cynthia) Fleschner, and cherished sister of Je
 GREENBERG-Filomen D'Agostino. The New York University community grieves for the loss of Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg. Trustee, alumna, distinguished lawyer and friend, she maintained an active, life-ong interest in the University. We were deeply grateful for her generosity and appreciative 
 HORVITZ-Birdie. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member, Birdie Horvitz. Deepest sympathy to her family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President HORVITZ-Byrdie G. at home on February 21, 2000. Belove
 KITCHING-Jessie. The New York City Audubon Society records with deep sorrow the passing of Jessie Kitching, a founder, longtime member and supporter of the Society. Our condolenceds to her family and to her companion, Emily Jones.       
 KOCH-Jacqueline B. Born Nov. 21, 1921 in Zurich, Switzerland. Died in NY February 20. Mother of Stephen, Jeremy and Chapin. Sister and sister-in-law of Anne-Marie and Dick Bullen. Also survived by 7 grandchildren: Eliza, Serena, Nicholas, Charles, Sarah, Peter and Lily. Her love, independen
 KOSSIN-Susan F. On February 18, 2000. A most courageous woman who will be remembered for her compassion and dignity. A memorial service will be held on Saturday March 4th at 1PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St.       
 MAER-Rita, 76, formerly of Siesta Key, Florida, died in Alpharetta, Ga., Monday, February 21, 2000. She is survived by daughters and sons-in-law, Deborah and Gus Mas, of Roswell, Ga., Terry and Lee Goldenberg of New Jersey; son, Jeffrey Maer of New York, and sister, Jean Maer, of Delray Bea
 MARTOCCIA-Carmela R. (nee Neglia) Age 89. Devoted wife of the late Arthur R. Martoccia, on February 20, 2000. Dear mother of Linda Centurrino and Elaine Pantaleo. Cherished mother-in-law of Robert Centurrino and Robert Pantaleo. Loving grandmother of Brian, Laura, Janine and Kevin. Caring s
 LONG-Ruth Stoddard, M.D. The family, friends and colleagues of Ruth Stoddard Long, M.D. wish to honor her memory on the one year anniversary of her death, February 23, 1999. She is greatly missed, and fondly remembered.       
 Ofra Haza, one of Israel's leading pop singers and songwriters, died yesterday at a hospital in Tel Aviv, where she was admitted 13 days ago. She was 41. She suffered massive organ failure, The Associated Press reported. A hospital staff member, Dr. Zeev Rortenstein, refused to say 
 BATTENFELD-Dorothy K. (nee Conelley), 88, of Southbury, CT wife of the late E. Gerard, died February 21 in Naples, Florida. Dear mother of Frederick and Eugene, grandmother, great-grandmother, cherished aunt. Reposing Friday from 6-8 PM, at Sacred Heart Church, Southbury, CT. Mass of the Re
 CASTLE-S. Ann. A nationally recognized authority in Development Research and Women in Philanthropy, died Tuesday, February 22, 2000. Ms. Castle began her career as a development assistant at Smith College and Harvard Divinity School and as Director of Development Research at Wellesley Colle
 CHAFFIE-Doris. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Loving mother of Joy Greenhouse and Mark Chaffie. Cherished grandmother of Barbara and Andrew. Greatgrandmother of Jake. Funeral services were held. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Sarah Newman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck, NY.    
 FASSBERG-Ellyn. We mourn the loss of our member, and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 HOCHMAN-Frances (nee Ginsburg). On February 22nd, 2000. Beloved wife of Dr. Mortimer Hochman. Dearest mother of Dr. Herbert Hochman. Sister of the late Lillian Berg and Elsie Ginsburg. A most gentle, loving, sweet person. Adored by all who knew her. Services Thursday, 12 PM at ''The Riversi
 KESSELER-Ina. The Trustees, Principal, Faculty and Staff of the German School New York, White Plains, mourn the passing of their long-serving Trustee. She was an active and dedicated Trustee of the school for many years and contributed generously of her time to the school on a regular basis
 ROBERTS-Edith. Beloved wife of the late Louis, loving mother of Richard. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Thursday, February 24, 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM. Service on Friday, February 25, at 10 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell. ROBERTS-Edith. The Presid
 SALINGER-Frances G. (Crystal). Age 88, of Palm Beach, Florida. Passed away on February 23, 2000. Mrs. Salinger, formerly of New York, was active in many community, religious and charitable organizations. She was the second woman in the country elected President of a Jewish synagogue as well
 WEINER-Evelyn. Of Stamford, CT, on February 23, 2000. She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Weiner, and children Neal Weiner of Greenwich, CT, Tara Rutman of Chappaqua, NY, and Andrea Schirmer of Pleasantville, NY. Also by her mother, Sarah Herscowitz of Brooklyn, and brother, Dr. Herber
 GROPPER-Lillian (Lolly). Age 96. Of Rockville Centre, NY. Loving and loved wife of the late Bernard. Mother of Judy and Ira Robinson, Susan and Leon Brachman. Grandmother of Ronni Adler and Douglas Robinson, Mitchell and Sheila Brachman and Linda Brachman. Great grandmother of Chelsea and L
 HALL-Gloria Shannon. On February 22, 2000 in Jupiter, FL. A resident of both Greenwich, CT., and Juno Beach Fl. She leaves her husband, Gordon B. Hall, Jr., her daughters, Diane Hall Juan, Meredith A. Hall and her sons, Dixon M. Hall II and Gordon B. Hall III. Visitation will be Sunday, Feb
 KESSELER-Ina. The Officers and Directors of the German American Partnership Program (GAPP) note with sadness the passing of our Board member and Vice President, Mrs. Ina Kesseler. Since the very inception of our Program, she has given wholeheartedly and unhesitatingly of her time and contri
 LAPORTE-Ruth Hillard, 78 of New York City and Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania on February 24, 2000. Cherished wife for 53 years of William F. Laporte. Beloved mother of Suzanne L. Westcott, Lynn A. Ducommun and William F. Laporte, III, and devoted grandmother of eight children. Funeral servic
 LEDERER-Norma Jean, 69, on February 24 at Calvary Hospital after a three year fight against esophageal cancer. Musician, caterer and life force who commanded friends and admirers on the upper west side where she lived for more than 30 years, the West Coast, Switzerland and her native Chicag
 LIPMAN-Natalie. Age 94 of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of Monroe, NY. Predeceased by her husband Arthur in 1974. Survived by her sons Lewis (Edythe), Alan (Heather) and Kenneth. Services are Sunday, 12 noon at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 OHRENSTEIN-Pauline. Of Delray Beach, Fla. died at her home on Wednesday, February 23, 2000 at the age of 87. She was pre-deceased by her husband Louis in 1992. She is survived by her daughter and son-in-law Carole and Ken Mersel of New City, N.Y. and her sister Mary Karmazin of Hallandale, 
 PORTNOW-Florence. Flo touched our lives with her love and joy of living on Eastern Parkway and in Bergerville. We are grateful that we were part of her extended family. We will miss her. Bernstein, Levine & Liebes       
 RUTLEDGE - Elizabeth. We mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague-Beth Rutledge. Refugees everywhere, whose cause she so tenaciously upheld for 25 years, have lost a great champion and we have lost a devoted friend. The Staff and Board International Rescue Committee       
 SALINGER-Frances G. (Crystal). Age 88, of Palm Beach, Florida. Passed away on February 23, 2000. Mrs. Salinger, formerly of New York, was active in many community, religious and charitable organizations. She was the second woman in the country elected President of a Jewish synagogue as well
 Eva Julia Neer, a biochemist and heart researcher at Harvard University and Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62. The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said. Dr. Neer was widely known for her i
 ARONAUER - Beatrice. Loving wife of Irwin and beloved mother of Susan, Billy, Elyse, Sandy and Peri. Loyal sister to Milton, Janet and the late Harriet. Loving grandmother to Judy (Wilfried), Robby (Felicia), Carol (Todd), Ondine, Ari, Aaron (Laura), Ani (Tyler), Jacob and Rebecca. We will 
 COWIT-Frances. Loving wife of the late Henry. Cherished mother of Gerald and Joel. Devoted grandmother of Stephen, Lawrence, Ronald, Ricky, Debbie and Lana. Great grandmother of nine. Special thanks to Judy for her loving care. Funeral service Sunday, February 27, at 10:30AM at I.J. Morris,
 GROPPER-Lillian (Lolly). Age 96. Of Rockville Centre, NY. Loving and loved wife of the late Bernard. Mother of Judy and Ira Robinson, Susan and Leon Brachman. Grandmother of Ronni Adler and Douglas Robinson, Mitchell and Sheila Brachman and Linda Brachman. Great grandmother of Chelsea and L
 MAJTHENYI-Gabriella, 91 of White Plains, NY. Died February 23, 2000 of a heart attack. She was born August 21, 1908 in Pecs, Hungary to Ilona and Joseph Roboz. Gabriella is survived by her son Alexander Majthenyi of White Plains, her daughter Klara King of England and 5 grandchildren. For i
 RUBIN-Bea. Beloved wife of the late Ira. Devoted sister of Leona. Cherished aunt and great aunt. Wonderful confidante to friends of each generation. Lover of art, opera, music and ballet. Her spirit, compassion, intelligence, and conversation will be missed by all who knew her. Memorial Ser
 ARONAUER - Beatrice. Loving wife of Irwin and beloved mother of Susan, Billy, Elyse, Sandy and Peri. Loyal sister to Milton, Janet and the late Harriet. Loving grandmother to Judy (Wilfried), Robby (Felicia), Carol (Todd), Ondine, Ari, Aaron (Laura), Ani (Tyler), Jacob and Rebecca. We will 
 BRAFF-Sylvia. On February 25th. Beloved wife of Lewis; adored mother of Shelly and George, Jonathon and Lynne, and Michael and Gladys. Most cherished and devoted grandmother. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Ave. BRAFF - Sylvia. Congregation Emanu-El 
 BRANDSTEIN-Gladys M. 91. Born in New York City, January 14, 1909. Died in NYC February 21, 2000. Devoted wife of Dr. Philip L. Brandstein, deceased in 1968. One of the first women to receive a law degree from NYU Law School. A progressive Attorney involved with civil rights and antipoverty 
 DANOFF-Judith (Ignatoff). Age 80, died February 14, in her 60th year of marriage to devoted Abraham. Fighter for humanity. Dedicated teacher, former Director of Early Childhood Education, Kingsboro Community College. Her spirit lives in her children, Saul (Valerie) and Ann, grandchildren (K
 GOLDSHEIN - Miriam. Beloved wife of Herman, devoted mother of Mark and Sandy, adored grandmother of Laura and Steven. Died Saturday, Feb. 12, 2000. Her love of life, her kindness and generosity will be remembered by many.       
 GROPPER-Lillian (Lolly). Age 96. Of Rockville Centre, NY. Loving and loved wife of the late Bernard. Mother of Judy and Ira Robinson, Susan and Leon Brachman. Grandmother of Ronni Adler and Douglas Robinson, Mitchell and Sheila Brachman and Linda Brachman. Great grandmother of Chelsea and L
 HORVITZ-Byrdie G. Beloved wife of the late Bernard H. Horvitz. Cherished mother of Janie Bernstein. Adored grandmother of Barra, Craig and Garrick Bernstein. A woman of character, kindness and generosity. Her memory will live in our hearts forever. She will be missed by all who knew her. Co
 MELNICK-Babs. Of Forest Hills, NY, died in Washington, D.C. 01 February 2000, of complications from a fall in 1997. A wonderfully warm and open-hearted person loved by all, who never spoke ill of anyone, Babs travelled the world with her beloved daughter Ronnie and welcomed family and frien
 MIDDLETON - Estelle (Stevie). Wife of the late Drew Middleton of The New York Times, on Friday February 25, at her home in Stamford, CT. She is survived by her daughter Judith of Mt. Kisco, NY; and her sister Annette Edwards of Weston, CT.       
 NEER-Eva J., M.D. Professor of Medicine at Harvard University on February 20, in Cambridge, MA, of breast cancer. Survived by her husband, Robert Neer, M.D., sons, Robert Jr. and Richard and daughter-in-law Erika Dudley. The Class of 1963 of Columbia University College of Physicians and Sur
 RAIEFF-Mary Elisabeth. 83. On February 25, 2000. Survived by her husband Josef, two daughters Alexandra and Valerie and one granddaughter. Beloved music teacher who received a double graduate fellowship from the Juilliard School. Interment private.       
 RUBIN-Bea. Beloved wife of the late Ira. Devoted sister of Leona. Cherished aunt and great aunt. Wonderful confidante to friends of each generation. Lover of art, opera, music and ballet. Her spirit, compassion, intelligence, and conversation will be missed by all who knew her. Memorial Ser
 WOOD-Cornelia Ely, died on February 12, 2000 at home at Tryon Estate, Columbus, NC. She was the daughter of the late Augustus and Grace Ely of Morristown, NJ. She was the wife of the late Arnold Wood. Surviving are three sons, William A. Wood, Steven H. Wood and Winston E. Wood. A memorial 
 Suzanne Gallo, a designer who created costumes for many of Merce Cunningham's major recent works, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was cancer, said David Vaughan, the archivist for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. In a relatively short caree
 GOLD-Annalee. 74. On February 26, 2000. Survived by her husband and best friend of 46 years, Ed, and five close cousins: Elizabeth, John, Ruth, Shirley and Annabelle, and many, many dear friends. Contributions in her memory can be made to Caring Community, 20 Washington Sq., NY, NY 10011 or
 KOCH-Jacqueline B. Born Nov. 21, 1921 in Zurich, Switzerland. Died in NY February 20. Mother of Stephen, Jeremy and Chapin. Sister and sister-in-law of Anne-Marie and Dick Bullen. Also survived by 7 grandchildren: Eliza, Serena, Nicholas, Charles, Sarah, Peter and Lily. Her love, independen
 KREINDLER-Ruby. Loving wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Judge Robert and Donald. Grandmother of Keith, Charles, Dorian and David, and five greatgrandchildren. At her request, there will be no funeral. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the donor's favorite charity. N
 MIDDLETON - Estelle (Stevie). Wife of the late Drew Middleton of The New York Times, on Friday February 25, at her home in Stamford, CT. She is survived by her daughter Judith of Mt. Kisco, NY; and her sister Annette Edwards of Weston, CT.       
 SCHWARTZ-Helene. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member, Helene Schwartz. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary       
 GALLO-Suzanne. Merce Cunningham and the dancers, faculty, staff, and board of directors of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and Cunningham Dance Foundation mourn the passing of our beloved costume designer and wardrobe supervisor, Suzanne Gallo, whose brilliant and innovative designs enri
 ROBINSON-Brenda L. On February 26, 2000. Loving mother of Christopher; beloved daughter of Marion Chambers; loving great niece of Dorothy White. Viewing Thursday, March 2, 3-7, Granby's Funeral Service, 4021 White Plains Road, Bronx NY. Burial on Friday, March 3 at Fairlawn Cemetery, NJ dep
 SAMET-Gertrude L. On February 27, 2000. Age 82. Loving wife of the late L. Reyner Samet. Beloved mother of Howard and Stephen Conn. Dear sister of Doris Sostmann. Services Tuesday, Febrauary 29, 11am at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 Street. SAMET-Gertrude L. Congregation Emanu-E
 SCHEPPS-Edna. On February 28, 2000, cherished wife of the late Nathaniel Schepps, beloved mother of Jill and Jack Butterly, and John and Janice Schepps, devoted grandmother to Kelly Tedesco and Adam Schepps, adoring great grandmother to Casey & Emily Tedesco. Edna is survived by her sister,
 SIEGEL-Florence (nee Talberth). Died peacefully in her 99th year on February 27, 2000 in Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Devoted mother of Barbara and Martin Somach and Howard and Elaine Siegel. Loving grandmother of Brian (Joy), Cara (Robert), Blaine, and Richard (Jennifer)
 SOSHNICK-Lauren Beth. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 WEINBLATT-Roslyn. We join our dear friend Susan Weinblatt in mourning the death of her loving mother, Roslyn and send our sincere condolences to the entire Weinblatt family. Congregation B'Nai Olam Fire Island Pines       
