 Bernadette O'Farrell, an actress best known for her role as Maid Marian in the 1950's television series ''The Adventures of Robin Hood,'' died this week at 75, The Daily Telegraph of London reported on Wednesday. Ms. O'Farrell was often seen in cinematic roles written by her husband
 ADAMS-Romaine Bristow. Of Austin, Texas, New York City, and Newport, R.I. and wife of Warren S. Adams II. Died peacefully in NYC on September 25, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Louise Wheeler Grosvenor. Adored grandmother of Charles Burnett Grosvenor Jr. of Austin, Texas, Leslie Grosve
 ASHFORTH - Betty Thomson Overton. Widow of George Thayer Ashforth, died on September 27, 1999. She was 91 years old and a resident of Greenwich, CT. Betty was born March 10, 1908 in Dallas, Texas. She was the daughter of Garland Bruce Overton and Louise Lanier Maney Overton. Her early years
 KILSTOCK-Phyllis. The Officers and Board of Directors of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of Negev, mourn the passing of our dear friend Phyllis Kilstock who together with her husband generously supported many programs at BGU over the years. We extend our deepest sympathies to
 PAUL-Jane M. Hunter. September 13, 1917-September 28, 1999. Beloved mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, wife; survived by daughter Barbara, son Herbert; daughter and son-in-law Rosalind and Stephen; brothers Edward and Richard; sister Edith; proud grandmother to Dana and Allison; loving aunt
 RICH-Stephanie Hillard, died on September 18th. Age 93. Born in New York City, she was a graduate of The Brearley School and Vassar College. She was married twice; first to C. Victor Barry, then to Edward N. Rich, Jr. of Annapolis, MD. She is survived by her daughter, Lelia Matthews, four g
 SCHANTZ-Rose. Devoted wife and mother, born October 20, 1923. Died September 29, 1999. She is survived by her husband Morris, sons Philip and Ricky, daughters Sherri and Penny, brother Abe Glass, and sister Harriet Goldenberg, and three grandchildren.       
 SOLOMON-Estelle. On September 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Loving mother of Hope Silvera Kerr and the late Phyllis Polonicki and Lawrence Solomon. Adoring grandmother of Jodi Montgomery and Marc Silvera. Dear great grandmother of Evan Rose Silvera. She will be deeply missed. G
 FREUNDLICH-Lillian. There will be a musical service of remembrance for Lillian Freundlich, pianist, teacher and coach and her husband Irwin at Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69 St. (East of Broadway) on Sunday, October 3 at 3 P.M.       
 DAVIDOFF-Estelle Topper. Died Wednesday, September 29, 1999 at the JFK Medical Center in Atlantis, Florida. Born in the Bronx, she lived in Rockland County, NY where she raised her three sons. She moved to Manhattan, NY in 1971. Ms. Davidoff has resided in West Palm Beach, Florida since 198
 SPITZER-Rabbi Julie Ringold. The staff and lay leadership of the UAHC Greater NY Council of Reformed Synagogues mourn with profound sorrow the loss of our beloved friend and teacher following a courageous battle with cancer. Her tireless devotion to justice, learning, and the preservation o
 WAGMAN-Shoala R. of Rye, NY. Died October 1, 1999. She was 67. Born April 24, 1932 in Brooklyn to Joseph and Minnie Blitz. In 1954 she married Leonard W. Wagman in Brooklyn. Shoala was a Real Estate Developer for over 15 years. In addition to her husband she is survived by a son David of Ry
 FREUNDLICH-Lillian. There will be a musical service of remembrance for Lillian Freundlich, pianist, teacher and coach and her husband Irwin at Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69 St. (East of Broadway) on Sunday, October 3 at 3 P.M.       
 Doreen Valiente, a self-proclaimed witch who in the mid-1950's wrote part of the liturgy now used by witches around the world, died in Brighton, England, on Sept. 1. She was 77. Through lectures and her many books, Ms. Valiente became the chief proselytizer of the white witch moveme
 BELOFSKY-Mary L.. (Also known as Mary L. Bell.) Age 87, died peacefully in her sleep at 6:10 AM, September 30, 1999. She was the beloved daughter of Goldie and Max Belofsky, the loyal sister of Morris Bell and Lee Chalik, both of whom predeceased her, and of Frances K. Bein, to whom she was
 CORUZZI-Lucy (nee Sarro). Left this world on 30 September, 1999, in NYC, aged 72. Widow of Hugo Coruzzi. Mother of Laura, Gloria and Celeste Coruzzi. Grandmother of Aidan Coruzzi Daly, Eva Coruzzi Schneider and Giovanna Coruzzi Kupiec. Lucy Coruzzi grew up on East 48 St., where from a young
 GWYN-Nichelle. Departed on September 29, 1999 after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. Viewing will be held from 3 to 8 PM, Monday, October 4, at James L. Perkins Chapel, 210 W. 145th Street, Manhattan. Services will be held at 10 AM Tuesday, October 5, at St. Philip's Church, 204 W. 13
 HOFFMAN-Clara Adler. Of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Islip, NY. Died on September 30, 1999 at the age of 98. She is now, after a separation of 35 years, reunited in heaven with her beloved husband, ''Buddy''. The daughter of Dr. Charles and Sadie (Simon) Adler. She grew up in NYC. In 1925, w
 KILSTOCK-Phyllis. Everlasting loving memories of a very special lady. A devoted wife, mother, and grandmother. She is truly cherished in our hearts forever. Kurt, Frances and George, Debra and Jonathan, Richard, and her adoring grandchildren.       
 LOBMAN-Ethel Bloch., 75, died September 28th. She is survived by Arthur, her husband of 40 years, and her daughters Sara and Carrie. A meeting to celebrate her life & 55 years as a revolutionary and member of the Socialist Workers Party will be held on Sunday, October 10th, 1 PM, at the Sch
 ROSENBLUTH-Eva. Of Hollywood, Florida, on October 1, at age 104. Wife of the late Dr. Jacob Rosenbluth, she is survived by her loving children, Carole Ressler, Dr. Morton Rosenbluth, Terry (Dr. Alfred) Geronemus; grandchildren, Dr. Allen Ressler, Cheri Kaufman, Mark (Fanny) Ressler, Lynn Bi
 SCHALL-Sidonie. On September 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Ravenna and Steven. Dear sister of Elza Talbot, Mendel Stewart, Judy Cliffe and Terry Gottlieb. Adoring grandmother of Alexander, Gavin and Kira. She will be profoundly missed. Service Monday, 9:30 AM, '
 SPITZER-Julie, Rabbi. The Metropolitan Chapter of the National Association of Temple Administrators mourns the loss of Rabbi Julie Spitzer. Her courage during her illness is an inspiration to all of us who serve the Jewish community. Sincere condolences to her family and her life partner Ab
 TISHMAN-Ruth W.. On September 26, 1999, at age 94. Her children, family and friends mourn deeply her passing. Widow of Paul, beloved mother and grandmother, she is survived by two daughters Jean Harrison of CT. & Ellen Rosenthal of Westchester, six grandchildren, and ten great grandchildren
 WOLFF-Anne. 87, died September 30, 1999, in Scottsdale, AZ. She and her late husband, Joel J. Wolff, were antique dealers in NY. She moved to Arizona two years ago. She is survived by her daughter Arlene (Beryl) Dulsky, step-son Michael (Sara) Wolff, sister Sylvia Jonas, six grandchildren, 
 Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said. She was 70. She founded a nunnery several years ago near Katmandu,
 FISHEL-Edith Rubin. On October 2, 1999, at age 76. Loving wife for 51 years of James Fishel. Beloved mother of Elizabeth and Anne Fishel. Devoted grandmother of Nathaniel and William Houghteling and Gabriel and Joseph Daly. Loyal sister of Carol Meyer and Harvey Rubin. Proud mother-inlaw of
 KILMARX-Helen Wood, of Scarsdale, New York, died September 1, 1999. Mother of Meredith Wood, Jr. & Kingsley Wood. Grandmother of John Scott Wood, James Stewart Wood, Kingsley Wood, Jr. and Leslie Wood Pellech. Greatgrandmother of Emma Elizabeth Wood and Kingsley Wood III. A memorial service
 KOMAROFF-Fanny. Wonderful wife of the late William R. Komaroff, devoted mother of Stanley Komaroff and the late Arlene Halbreich and Martin Komaroff, dear mother-in-law of Rosalyn and Rhoda Komaroff, and Mortimer Halbreich, beloved grandmother of Michael, Audrey, Linda, William and Andrew K
 LENZNER-Laura Adasko. On October 3, 1999, at age 50. Beloved wife of Allan. Loving mother of Benjamin, Sam and David. Dear daughter of Mary Adasko and the late Herbert Isaac Adasko. Devoted sister of Hardy Adasko. Loving aunt to several nieces and nephews. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 PLITKIN-Natalie W. Beloved and devoted wife of Henry J. Plitkin for 63 years; mother of Elizabeth Brinnitzer; and mother in-law of Bernard Brinnitzer. She was deeply loved by all three. Died October 2, 1999, after a long illness. Funeral Tuesday, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amst
 SCHALL-Sidonie. On September 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Ravenna and Steven. Dear sister of Elza Talbot, Mendel Stewart, Judy Cliffe and Terry Gottlieb. Adoring grandmother of Alexander, Gavin and Kira. She will be profoundly missed. Service Monday, 9:30 AM, '
 SPITZER-Julie, Rabbi. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Rabbi Julie Spitzer, and extends to her family and loved ones deepest sympathies. A dedicated and thoughtful teacher of our tradition, she brought manifold blessings to her colleagu
 STERN-Lillian Berkowitz. Mother, grandmother, aunt; widow of Sidney Stern. The last of her generation, passes at age 89, leaving one son Michael, six grandchildren Elana, Baldin, Adina, Sidney Alex, A.B., Zoe Stern, and nieces and nephews of the Stern, Scheer, and Berkowitz families. Funera
 TURNER-Sylvia. On October 3, 1999, of Long Beach, LI. Beloved wife of the late Milton Turner and loving mother to Jacquie, Laurie, Jill, and son-in-law Robert Gottfried; devoted grandmother to Lee and Vanessa. Her creativity, style and charm will be greatly missed by family and friends. Gra
 Zimmerman-Ruth Pascal. Cherished by her daughter, Joan Shore; beloved by her grandsons, Jeffery, Steven and Gregory Shore; and adored by her greatgranddaughter, Odessa Shore. Services were held Sunday, October 3, in Manhattan.       
 Laura Adasko Lenzner, an artist who worked in pastel, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 50 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Allan Lenzner. Ms. Lenzner, who went by Laura Adasko professionally, was bo
 BENNETT-Sidonie. The Board of Directors and staff of the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding join our esteemed President, Georgette F. Bennett, her son Joshua-Marc, and the rest of the family, in mourning the loss of her mother. Sidonie will be greatly missed by all of us who 
 BUFFER-Shirley. On October 4, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Devoted mother of Steven, Brian and Nancy. Loving grandma to the light of her life, Alex. Finally with The Bear. Funeral service Wednesday 11:30AM at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Fore
 GOLDSTEIN-Rose. Age 96, in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Jonathan Goldstein, loving mother of Marsha Ozer and mother-in-law of Martin Ozer, devoted mother of Ivy and Craig Zuckerman, Tracey and Scott Schweber, Jennifer and Michael Korten and Jeffrey Ozer. Proud great-grandmothe
 LENZNER-Laura Adasko. On October 3, 1999, at age 50. Beloved wife of Allan. Loving mother of Benjamin, Sam and David. Dear daughter of Mary Adasko and the late Herbert Isaac Adasko. Devoted sister of Hardy Adasko. Loving aunt to several nieces and nephews. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 PLITKIN-Natalie W. Beloved and devoted wife of Henry J. Plitkin for 63 years; mother of Elizabeth Brinnitzer; and mother in-law of Bernard Brinnitzer. She was deeply loved by all three. Died October 2, 1999, after a long illness. Funeral Tuesday, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amst
 RUDEY-Thelma Barasch. On October 4, 1999, died peacefully at home at age 92. Barnard and Teacher's College Columbia University graduate. Lover of languages and the arts. Dearly beloved wife of the late Samuel Richard Rudey. Devoted mother of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Rueb
 SHAPIRO-Susanne. Beloved wife of the late Alvin. Wonderful mother of Michael, Steven and Laura. Dear sister of Carol, Iris and Linda. devoted grandmother of Alex, Matthew and Randolph. Dearest mother-in-law of Emily, Barbara and Richard. Sister-in-law of Mickey and Bernie. A remarkable woma
 SPENCER-Marian. The Board of Directors of ARC, Fort Washington Senior Center, on behalf of the seniors and staff, mourn the passing of their dedicated Director. We extend sincere condolences to her family and friends. A Memorial Service will be held Friday October 8, 1999 at 11:30 A.M. at A
 SPITZER-Julie, Rabbi. The Jewish Community Relations Council sorrowfully mourns the passing of our dear colleague and friend, Rabbi Julie Spitzer, Director of the UAHC Greater NY Council of Reform Synagogues. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Ho
 STERN-Lillian. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 ZIMMERMAN-Ruth Pascal. Cherished by her daughter, Joan Shore; beloved by her grandsons, Jeffery, Steven and Gregory Shore; and adored by her greatgranddaughter, Odessa Shore. Services were held on Sunday, October 3, in Manhattan.       
 ACKERMAN-Elaine of Yonkers, New York, a principal and Vice President of Caprice Travel Agency, Inc., 1179 Yonkers Avenue, Yonkers, N.Y. succumbed to cancer at her home Tuesday, October 5, 1999. Mrs. Ackerman was born May 29, 1926 in the Bronx and attended school in New York City. She was th
 FENN-Elizabeth, died on October 2nd, 1999. An artist, art director, fashion and advertising illustrator in Paris and New York; former president of the Pen and Brush Club of New York. She was the mother of Suzanne and Karen Fenn; the grandmother of Vincent Puig and Aline Puig-Colart; and the
 FREIREICH-Rozsi (Preisler). Of Briarwood, NY. Died at home on October 5, 1999. Companion of Harry Schachter; mother of Andrew and Ronald; mother-in-law of Bonnie Freireich, Tina Potter and Barbara Klein; grandmother of Tracy, Gaea, Zoe, Jennifer, Garrett and Alix; great grandmother of Macke
 GLUCKAUF-Irma (nee Schack). Died October 4, 1999 in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Loving mother of Joan and Jorn Haahr and the late Peter. Devoted grandmother and great grandmother. Services Wednesday, October 6, 1:15 PM, at The Riverside, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street. C
 HOLTHUSEN-Lenore. At age 86, beloved wife of the late Henry F. Holthusen, loving sister of Shirlee Stout, of Indiana, Maxine Smith, of South Dakota, Jean Penn, of New York, Robert Sutter, of Ohio, and the late Ruth Richards, of Kentucky. Adored aunt of twelve nieces and nephews. A member of
 LENZNER-Laura Adasko. On October 3, 1999, at age 50. Beloved wife of Allan. Loving mother of Benjamin, Sam and David. Dear daughter of Mary Adasko and the late Herbert Isaac Adasko. Devoted sister of Hardy Adasko. Loving aunt to several nieces and nephews. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 LEWIS-Princiss. Tifereth IsraelTown & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abigail Sosland Carol J. Green, President       
 PLITKIN-Natalie W. Beloved and devoted wife of Henry J. Plitkin for 63 years; mother of Elizabeth Brinnitzer; and mother in-law of Bernard Brinnitzer. She was deeply loved by all three. Died October 2, 1999, after a long illness. Funeral Tuesday, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amst
 RUDEY-Thelma Barasch. On October 4, 1999, died peacefully at home at age 92. Barnard and Teacher's College Columbia University graduate. Lover of languages and the arts. Dearly beloved wife of the late Samuel Richard Rudey. Devoted mother of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Rueb
 SHUB-Ruth L. on October 5, 1999 formerly of Sarasota, FL. & Wingdale, NY. Mother of Michael, Charles & Ellen Shub. Grandmother of Wesley, Sarah, Jonathan & Jessica. Service Wednesday 3 PM at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Interment private. Donations to Alzheimers Association, Man
 Amalia Rodrigues, the Portuguese singer who was considered the queen of fado, died yesterday at her home in Lisbon. She was 79. Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary. Fado, which means fate in Portuguese, is a passio
 ETRA-Minnie. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime member. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 FRANKLIN-Anna May. October 2, Anna May, age 90, wife of the late Francis Franklin, survived by nieces, nephews, sister-in-law and many loving friends. According to her wishes, her remains were donated to Mt. Sinai Medical School.       
 HUNT-Rosamond Pier. In Bedford, MA. On October 5, 1999. Daughter of the late Arthur Stanwood Pier who taught at Harvard University and Saint Paul's School and is the author of 34 books. She was the former wife of William Morris Hunt. Mother of Elise Hunt Roselli, actress; Demi, author and a
 LUNN-Joan Deary. Died October 2, 1999. Joan Deary Lunn worked at RCA Victor records under the name of Joan Deary for over 40 years. She moved to Hollywood in the early 1960's where she was in charge of A&R administration for the California office under Steve Sholes. Joan was the first woman
 MILLER-Roslyn (Shaposnick). Of NYC. Passed away October 5. Loving wife of the late Murray Miller, devoted mother of Howard and Jennifer (Bruce). Adored grandmother of Max and Claire, fiancee & beloved friend of Milton Kaye and his family. Her enthusiasm for life and caring for others made h
 RUDEY-Thelma Barasch. On October 4, 1999, died peacefully at home at age 92. Barnard and Teacher's College Columbia University graduate. Lover of languages and the arts. Dearly beloved wife of the late Samuel Richard Rudey. Devoted mother of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Rueb
 SARATH-Sylvia. On October 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Jerry and the late William. Dear sister of Florence and Barney. She will be missed by her family and friends. Memorial service Friday, 2 P.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SCHEMAN-Joan. You have encircled our lives with love. You have etched a place in our hearts forever. It is from there that we will find the strength. With love, Marty and Randy and Brenda. Services Thursday, October 7, at 11 AM, at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Roslyn Rd., Roslyn, L.I. Donations 
 SIMON-Judith G. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Samuel Simon, loving mother of Greg, Robert, Catherine and Paul and dear grandmother of Sam, Maggie and Emily. Cherished sister of Gloria Davis. Contributions in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 SULAM-Edna. The board and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Edna Sulam, the mother of Carol Zicklin, a JBFCF trustee. A loving wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, Mrs. Sulam was also a volunteer in Florida for the City of Hope. We 
 DAVIS-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Kenneth and Gary. Cherished mother-in-law of Bonnie and Joanne. Dear sister of Vic Vogel, Eleanor Fox and Harry Vogel. Loving grandmother of Daniel and Jordanna. Contributions may be made in her memory to the Mt. Sinai Hospita
 HILL-Frances. On October 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Axelrath and the late Leon Hill. Loving mother of Hilda Shelupsky and Stephen Axelrath. Dear sister of the late Samuel Hershfield and loving companion of Louis Sarlin. Adoring grandmother of Sam and Sarah. She will be deeply 
 HURWITZ-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late George. Mother of Susan (Allen Bernstein), Dr. William, and Ina (Philip Cangiano). Grandmother of Rosalind, Joel, Jennifer, Rebecca, Gregory and great grandmother of Samantha. She will always be lovingly remembered in our hearts for her dignity, streng
 RUDEY-Thelma Barasch. On October 4, 1999, died peacefully at home at age 92. Barnard and Teacher's College Columbia University graduate. Lover of languages and the arts. Dearly beloved wife of the late Samuel Richard Rudey. Devoted mother of John and Laurie Rudey and Liz and Kirk Rudey Rueb
 SULAM-Edna. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edna Sulam, beloved mother of our dedicated leader and dear friend, Carol Zicklin. Devoted to strengthening the Jewish community for future generations, Carol is the volunteer coordina
 WEINSTOCK-Herbert, Dr. We are deeply saddened at the loss of our dear friend Herb. Our heartfelt sympathy to Adele and her family. Florence and Alvin Burnett       
 WOLKOFF-Nellie. Loving mother of Caryl Shorin, Jack and Phyllis. Loving grandmother of Jayme, Greg, Scott and Mindi. She was loved and will be missed by all.       
 YOUNG-Lucylle. Our sympathies to Carol Ann Young of our Board in the passing of her beloved mother. The Board of Overseers and Staff, The Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College       
 FORMAN-Lilyann passed away at age 90. She is survived by her daughter, Cooki and her son-in-law Joel Yunis, her granddaughter Bari Yunis, her grandson Steven Yunis, a son and granddaughter. Services will be held at Baron Hirsch Cemetery on Staten Island at 2PM on Sunday, October 10th. Contr
 GREENFIELD-Eva Miller. On October 8, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Eleanor & Henry Lowet, & Susan and Marvin Shapiro. Devoted grandmother of Stephanie and Ames, Peter & Laurie, Jonathan, Robert, Deborah & Tony. Adoring great-grandmother of Benjamin, Naomi, Daniel a
 GULDIN-Anita. Of Delray Beach, Florida. Loving Mother of David Freed. Adored Grandmother of Shawn Frankel of New York City. She will be greatly missed by her family.       
 HANDROS-Cele L. Beloved wife of Richard. She was employed at AHRC for 30 years as Budget Director. She loved and was loved. Services 12 noon Sunday, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. HANDROS-Cele. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and friends of the 
 HILL-Frances. On October 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Axelrath and the late Leon Hill. Loving mother of Hilda Shelupsky and Stephen Axelrath. Dear sister of the late Samuel Hershfield and loving companion of Louis Sarlin. Adoring grandmother of Sam and Sarah. She will be deeply 
 HURWITZ-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late George. Mother of Susan (Allen Bernstein), Dr. William, and Ina (Philip Cangiano). Grandmother of Rosalind, Joel, Jennifer, Rebecca, Gregory and great grandmother of Samantha. She will always be lovingly remembered in our hearts for her dignity, streng
 McGOVERN - Marie V. (nee Gough). Of Irvington, New York on October 7, beloved wife of Joseph W., mother of Marie Therese Melillo, Raymond, Joseph, Philip & Lawrence. Sister of Virginia Kutner and the late Anne Madigan, Rev. Lawrence Gough, & Rev. Raymond Gough, S.J. Grandmother of 22, Great
 PAXINOS-Harriet. The Friends of the Hunter College Library and the Hunter College Foundation extend sincere condolences to Marie Fochios and her family on the passing of her sister, Harriet Paxinos. Jacqueline G. Wilson, Chair, Friends of the Library       
 RUDBART-Milton. The Members and Staff of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida, wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member Janice Rudbart and family on the passing of her beloved husband, Milton. The Board of Governors Bernard Howard, President       
 TURKEWITZ-Grace. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, New York, deeply mourns the loss of its past President of Sisterhood, and longstanding and devoted member of its Board of Trustees. A heroic stuggle for life has ended. To her husband Bob and her family, our sincerest condolences. Rabbi M
 BELOFSKY-Mary L. (Also known as Mary L. Bell.) Age 87, died peacefully in her sleep at 6:10 AM, September 30, 1999. She was the beloved daughter of Goldie and Max Belofsky, the loyal sister of Morris Bell and Lee Chalik, both of whom predeceased her, and of Frances K. Bein, to whom she was 
 BERENZWEIG - Anne. Loving mother of Jack and Harold and their wives Susan and Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Mindy, Bubba, Steven, Michael and Shana. She was preceded in death by her husband, Sidney.       
 CLINGEN-Joyce Fountain. Of Chatham Township, NJ, formerly of NYC, on October 6, 1999, the daughter of the late Florence and Quion Fountain, wife of James F. Clingen, mother of Guy and Maria Clingen, both of Westfield, NJ, sister of Audrey F. Jordan of Whispering Pines, NC. A graveside servi
 FISCH-Miriam. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Marcus Fisch and mother of Suzie (and YU Trustee Joseph) Wilf, YU Benefactors, and Erwin (and Lynn) Fisch, YU Guardians. Miriam Fisch was a H
 GREENFIELD-Eva Miller. On October 8, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Eleanor & Henry Lowet, & Susan and Marvin Shapiro. Devoted grandmother of Stephanie and Ames, Peter & Laurie, Jonathan, Robert, Deborah & Tony. Adoring great-grandmother of Benjamin, Naomi, Daniel a
 HANDROS-Cele. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and friends of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to Richard, husband of the late Cele Handros. We grieve Cele's death because she was an important member of the AHRC family, be
 McGOVERN - Marie V. (nee Gough). Of Irvington, New York on October 7, beloved wife of Joseph W., mother of Marie Therese Melillo, Raymond, Joseph, Philip & Lawrence. Sister of Virginia Kutner and the late Anne Madigan, Rev. Lawrence Gough, & Rev. Raymond Gough, S.J. Grandmother of 22, Great
 NEWBURGER-Eleanor Peters. Died September 27, 1999 at age 71. Spirited, smart, funny, undaunted, she was a fearless speaker of other languages, a tireless museumgoer, a life-long learner. She held a B.A. from Columbia University, School of General Studies, and worked for a time at Perspectiv
 REED-Dabney (Freeman). Of Manchester-By-The-Sea, MA. October 5, 1999, at age 65, formerly of Amherst, MA, and Southampton, NY. Beloved wife of Nathaniel Reed. Loving mother or Wrenn Dabney Reed of Brookline, MA, Priscilla Reed Anderson of Boston, MA, and Timothy Nathaniel Reed of Boston, MA
 TURKEWITZ-Grace. My beloved and esteemed cousin. Her warmth and supportive friendship were always a source of strength and pleasure for me. Sunny       
 DEMBITZER-Robin, M.D. September 24, 1999. Beloved daughter, beloved sister, beloved friend. Gifted physician, gifted artist. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation, 386 Park Avenue South, 14th Floor, NYC 10016.       
 ETRA-Shirley. Song of Mama. We hold this image: you are sitting, elegantly dressed, not extravagant, graciously hosting. Upright, wry smile, inscrutable gaze. Proud, independent Boston Lady of no nonsense, no complaint, no regret, no words minced, great forbearance. Humble matriarch, holdin
 LEWIN - Natalie. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 McGOVERN - Marie V. (nee Gough). Of Irvington, New York on October 7, beloved wife of Joseph W., mother of Marie Therese Melillo, Raymond, Joseph, Philip & Lawrence. Sister of Virginia Kutner and the late Anne Madigan, Rev. Lawrence Gough, & Rev. Raymond Gough, S.J. Grandmother of 22, Great
 RICHMAN-Helen. On October 9, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Irving Richman. Loving mother of Harold Richman and the late Rhett Behrmann. Mother-in-law of Sheila Richman. Dear sister of the late Isabelle Singer and Bernard Wallach. Adoring grandmother of Adam, Andrea, Annie and Sheridan. Dea
 STERN-Minnie. October 9, 1999. New York City retired teacher, age 90. Beloved wife, loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be missed.       
 BLOM-Solveig Arthur, 62, died October 8, 1999 at a Bangor, Maine hospital. She was born February 7, 1937 in Flekkefjord, Norway, the daughter of Paul Arthur and Liv (Tesdahl) Tobiassen. Solveig was a devoted Christian & a wonderful wife, mother and grandmother. She is survived by her husban
 DEMBITZER-Robin, M.D. September 24, 1999. Beloved daughter, beloved sister, beloved friend. Gifted physician, gifted artist. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation, 386 Park Avenue South, 14th Floor, NYC 10016.       
 ERENBERG-Lillian. Beloved wife and life partner for 60 years of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of the late Elissa Erenberg and Joel Erenberg. Loving grandmother of the late Marc Barron Erenberg, Robin Hilary and Michael Marc Erenberg. Dear sister of Betty Beatty, the late Morris and Harr
 FISCH-Miriam. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Miriam Fisch matriarch of her family, mother of Elizabeth Wilf and mother-in-law of our dedicated Treasurer Joseph Wilf, founders and scholarship benefactors of the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. To Elizabeth, her brother 
 McMANUS - Marie. Dedicated Board member of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition. Marie loved DeVoe Park and helped win many improvements over three decades. At the age of 91, Marie was still attending night meetings and motivating other members. She will be remembered and miss
 SIPPERLY-Mary Shaw. Of Stony Brook, NY. On October 10, 1999, peacefully after a sudden illness. The 23rd member of her family to graduate from Mount Holyoke College, she worked as an editor of children's books for Charles Scribner and Sons in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, David
 SITZER-Esther H., 88. A resident of Forest Trace, Lauderhill, Florida. Died peacefully on October 8, 1999. She is mourned by all who loved her, especially Evelyn and Bob Gomer, Helen and Paul Hodys and Bill and Kathy Sitzer. She was a lifelong active member of the ADL and a past President o
 STEWART-Sylvia Lichtenstein. March 21, 1914 to October 8, 1999. Formerly of Roslyn, New York. Lovingly remembered by her brother, Harold Lichtenstein, her sons, Carl and Mark, daughter-inlaw, Lori, grandchildren, Rachel, Kim, Ian, and Lily, great grandchildren and other loving family and fr
 RUBIN-Rose N. Family and friends will gather between 2 P.M. and 5 P.M. on Saturday October 16, 1999 at Rose's home to celebrate her life.       
 Marie-Madeleine Durufle, an internationally renowned organist and teacher and the widow of the French composer and organist Maurice Durufle, died on Oct. 5 in Paris, where she lived. She was 78. Mrs. Durufle, a technically formidable organist, was generally considered the last great
 DANIELS-Sylvia Appell. On October 12, 1999, beloved wife of Irwin, loving mother of Arleen D. Auerbach, dear mother-in-law of Robert Auerbach, cherished grandmother of Steven & Laura, adoring great grandmother of Anya and Alex. She will be deeply missed. Service private.       
 DEMBITZER-Robin C., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni record with sorrow the untimely death of Dr.Robin Dembitzer, School of Medicine graduate of the class of 1988. An outstanding young physician, she will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to her sister Francine, (MSSM '89) and to the 
 ELIAS-Sarah. The officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of Sarah Elias, beloved mother of our devoted member Sylvia Lehrer. We extend condolences to Sylvia and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson
 ERENBERG-Lillian. Beloved wife and life partner for 60 years of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of the late Elissa Erenberg and Joel Erenberg. Loving grandmother of the late Marc Barron Erenberg, Robin Hilary and Michael Marc Erenberg. Dear sister of Betty Beatty, the late Morris and Harr
 MANZONI-Carol Berlin. The law offices of Ross & Hardies mourn the passing of our friend and partner Carol Berlin Manzoni. Carol was a prominent labor lawyer and nationally recognized expert in employment discrimination law. She was elected to the firm's Executive Committee from 1992-1998 an
 PEABODY-Barbara K. October 10, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George, Jr., devoted mother of Christopher, Carolyn G., George III and Harry. Devoted friend of Ligia M. Barahona. She is survived by one sister, two brothers, many nieces, nephews and two grandchildren. Funeral from the Chas. Pe
 SANDLER-Phyllis. A loving and caring person who touched many lives and was an inspiration to all. Beloved wife of Eli, devoted mother of Dr. Dennis, cherished aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt. Services at Boulevard-Riverside, 1895 Flatbush Avenue at Avenue L, Brooklyn, today at 11:30 A
 SIMON-Marion, 63. Of Riverdale, N.Y. On October 8, 1999 after three years of struggling against Melanoma. Devoted sister of Gabrielle Lefer of New York and adoring aunt to Michael Lefer. Dedicated and loyal friend. Retired teacher of 25 years in the Yonkers public school system. Painter of 
 SIPPERLY-Mary Shaw. Of Stony Brook, NY. On October 10, 1999, peacefully after a sudden illness. The 23rd member of her family to graduate from Mount Holyoke College, she worked as an editor of children's books for Charles Scribner and Sons in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, David
 STEWART-Sylvia Lichtenstein. March 21, 1914 to October 8, 1999. Formerly of Roslyn, New York. Lovingly remembered by her brother, Harold Lichtenstein, her sons, Carl and Mark, daughter-inlaw, Lori, grandchildren, Rachel, Kim, Ian, and Lily, great grandchildren and other loving family and fr
 BEUDERT-Monique. Born Long Island, New York, October 22, 1950. Died peacefully October 9, 1999, London, England, age 48. Beloved wife of Brian Boylan of London. Cherished daughter of Adele Beudert and the late Francis Beudert of Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island; sister of Martine Beudert of 
 FISHER-Marilyn nee Spellun. On October 12, 1999 at age 72 in Tucson, Arizona. Beloved mother of Marcea Wolf-Carter & sister of Arnold Spellun. Her spirit, exuberance and joy in life will continue to inspire her family & friends. Shiva will be at 320 W. 80th Street, NYC after 2PM on Sunday, 
 LEWIN-Natalie. In honor of our grandmother Natalie, beloved wife of the late Milton Lewin and loving sister of the late Lewis Steinman. We want to send our deepest love and affection to our aunt Joan Steinman, and to all of our Steinman, Rudin and Lowe cousins, whose support and love enable
 LUGO-Margaret A. Age 76 years, of NYC, NY on Sunday October 10, 1999 at her son's residence in Palermo, NJ. She was a veteran of WWII, having served in the U.S. Army Air Corps as a Sergeant. She was an Administrator for the YWCA in New York City, and a patron of the arts. She is survived by
 MANZONI-Carol Berlin. The law offices of Ross & Hardies mourn the passing of our friend and partner Carol Berlin Manzoni. Carol was a prominent labor lawyer and nationally recognized expert in employment discrimination law. She was elected to the firm's Executive Committee from 1992-1998 an
 McGUIRE-Mary Mechtilde, long time resident of Bay Ridge and retired Supervisor for Pfizer Corp. died on October 13, 1999. Daughter of the late John V. McGuire and Annie McGuire Welsh. She was a charming and dignified lady who sacrificed greatly for many years to assure the health and well-b
 REDMOND-Patricia D. Age 73 of Roswell, GA. Died October 12, 1999. She was a member of St. Andrews Catholic Church and a homemaker. Surviving are her husband, John T. Redmond of Roswell, daughters Mrs. Rhys (Christine) Thomas of Roswell, Mrs. James (Patricia) Nisivoccia of Toms River, NJ, so
 WHEELOCK-Elizabeth T., died October 12 at her home in New Canaan, Conn. Widow of Morgan Dix Wheelock, she was also predeceased by her first husband, J. Foster Bowers, and second husband, J. Paul Stabler, both of whom died of cancer. She is survived by two daughters, Beverly Bowers Jennings 
 BEUDERT - Monique. The Trustees, artists, and staff of Studio in a School mourn the passing of their good friend and colleague, Monique Beudert. Her love of art and passion for sharing it with young people should serve as examples to us all. She will be sorely missed. Agnes Gund, Founder Th
 BOTTOMLEY-Hilda Ridgway. Of London, England, died October 14, 1999 in New Castle, NSW, Australia. Mother of eight, grandmother of 26 and great-grandmother of 34. She was a loving, proud and brave woman who raised a wonderful family despite the perils of the London blitz in World War II. We 
 De LONG-Vera On October 13, 1999. Survived by her daughter June Rothenstein. Dear mother of the late Robert, George, John and Gloria Jones. Mrs. De Long has seven grandchildren, 12 great grandchildren and one great, great grandchild. Family to receive friends at the Leo F. Kearns Funeral Ho
 LAPOFF-Phyllis. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, New York, mourns the loss of our longstanding and devoted member. We remember her with affection. Sincerest condolences to her mother and children. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Laurence A. Feldman, President       
 MALINO-Leonore Roman. On October 13, 1999, peacefully at home. Born January 23, 1898. An artist and concert violinist, she was the adored wife of the late Jerome E. Malino; loving sister of the late Charles Roman, Dorothy Feldman and Pauline Kraft, and sister-inlaw to Orpha Vasquez Roman. S
 McFADDEN-Barbara A. The Faculty, Alumni Association, Advisory Council, students and staff of the Columbia University School of Social Work record with sadness the sudden death of Barbara A. McFadden, a 1984 graduate and past president of the Alumni Association. A leader in community, church
 McGUIRE-Mary Mechtilde, long time resident of Bay Ridge and retired Supervisor for Pfizer Corp. died on October 13, 1999. Daughter of the late John V. McGuire and Annie McGuire Welsh. She was a charming and dignified lady who sacrificed greatly for many years to assure the health and well-b
 PANZARELLA-Rosemary D. (Anguilla), 67, died Thursday, October 14th, 1999 at St. Peters Medical Center, New Brunswick, N.J. Born in Brooklyn, she resided in New Hyde Park before moving to Bridgewater, N.J. 35 years ago. She was a secretary for the Bridgewater Raritan School District for 15 y
 PHELAN-Sondra. A caring and compassionate member of the Board of Trustees of the Ackerman Institute for the Family. A graduate of our training program, she was a gifted therapist who brought warmth and understanding to all the families she met. We will truly miss her optimism and spirit. Ar
 PHELAN-Sondra Sickles. Born in New York, a resident of Manhattan, and at times Washington, D.C., Wisdom, Montana and Paris, France. Died on October 13, 1999 after a long illness. A graduate of Barnard College, Sondra received Masters of Science Degrees at Teachers College and the School of 
 SAFIR-Florence B., 89, passed away October 4 in San Diego. Florence was a native New Yorker. She was born in Greenwich Village, and lived on West 72nd Street for more than 65 years. For over 30 years, ''Florrie'' was a school secretary at P.S. 87. In the usually anonymous city, strolling do
 SMOLENSKI-Juliane A. (nee Sackerlotzky in Bamberg, Germany). Entered into eternal rest in NYC on Saturday, October 9, 1999 after a 2 month illness. She was the beloved mother of Gloria S. Daxland of Floral Park, NY and Cecilia S. Flynn of Norwalk, Conn. She was devoted to her sole granddaug
 WERT-Eve. On October 13, 1999 in Seattle, Washington. She is survived by her daughters, Roberta and Suzanne, son-in-law Frank, grandchildren Lisa and Steve, Liz and Stephen, Jennifer and Bob, and many beloved friends and relatives. Services Sunday 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Stree
 RUBIN-Rose N. Family and friends will gather between 2 P.M. and 5 P.M. on Saturday October 16, 1999 at Rose's home to celebrate her life.       
 Monique Beudert, a museum curator who worked in New York and London, died last Saturday at her home in London. She was 48. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Ms. Beudert was born on Long Island and studied art history at Connecticut College, earning a B.A. in 1972
 EPSTEIN-Betty, on October 14, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis J. Loving mother of Edward Jay Epstein and Linda J. Nessel. Dear sister of Mildred Fleischman. Adoring grandmother of Richard, Lori, Kenneth, Daniel and James Nessel. Proud and inspiring greatgrandmother of Jacob and Gensian
 HARGITAY-Elinor, of White Plains. Deeply beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend to many, died unexpectedly Thursday, October 14 at White Plains Hospital with family by her side. Her passing leaves a void in the life of everyone who knew her. A health care professional and tireless vol
 KARADBIL-Dorothy, 83, died of Cancer on October 14, 1999 at her home in New York City. Contributions in her name may be sent to Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Israel Medical Center, 1st Ave. at 16th St, NY, NY 10003. Private interment.       
 MANNE-Betty (nee David) of Manhattan, formerly of Elizabeth, NJ. Died Thursday, October 14, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Philip Manne. Loving aunt of a niece, a nephew; and a cousin. Graduate of NJ College for Women. Mrs. Manne with her husband were the founders of Amalgamated Insurance B
 PHELAN-Sondra Sickles. The Marymount School Board of Trustees, administrators, faculty and the entire School community mourn the death of our beloved friend, teacher, colleague and trustee, Sondra Phelan. A valued member of the Board, Sondra shared with each of us her wise counsel, love of 
 Carol Berlin Manzoni, a Chicago lawyer whose knack for recruiting clients propelled her rapid rise in the legal profession, died on Oct. 9 at her home in Chicago. She was 52. The cause was heart disease, the Blake-Lamb Funeral Home said. Ms. Manzoni was a leading player at R
 DIAMOND-Sigmond. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine community extends heartfelt condolences to our friend and colleague, Dr. Betty Diamond, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology and Director of our Medical Scientist Training Program, on the loss of her beloved father. Dominick P. Pu
 EPSTEIN-Betty, on October 14, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis J. Loving mother of Edward Jay Epstein and Linda J. Nessel. Dear sister of Mildred Fleischman. Adoring grandmother of Richard, Lori, Kenneth, Daniel and James Nessel. Proud and inspiring greatgrandmother of Jacob and Gensian
 HENRY-Janet Ruth. Beloved wife of William. Devoted mother of Jodi and Charles, Lonny, Scott and Lisa, and Allison and Brad. Cherished grandmother of Jacob, Sydney, Marc, Lauren, Stephanie and Spencer. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Sunday, 1:30 PM. HENRY
 HORSTMAN-Dorothy. Country and Western Music Historian and Author died September 13, 1999 in New York City. Survived by daughters Fritzi and Madi. Songwriter and pioneer in music journalism. Born Dorothy Ann Bernis, wedded James R. Horstman in 1959. Author of ''Sing Your Heart Out, Country B
 PHELAN-Sondra Sickles. The Marymount School Board of Trustees, administrators, faculty and the entire School community mourn the death of our beloved friend, teacher, colleague and trustee, Sondra Phelan. A valued member of the Board, Sondra shared with each of us her wise counsel, love of 
 SPROUL-Jodi D. (nee Goldstein). The family and friends of Jodi Sproul sadly report her untimely passing on Friday, October 15, 1999. Jodi's love for all of us will be remembered for all time. We who are closest to her will carry on in the way Jodi would have wanted, with love and mutual res
 Ella Mae Morse, the sultry, swinging pop-jazz singer whose 1942 hit, ''Cow-Cow Boogie,'' became the first million seller for the fledgling Capitol Records and helped establish the label, died on Saturday at the Western Arizona Regional Medical Center in Bullhead City. She was 75 and lived i
 Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.  She was 68 and liv
 BENHAIM-Jenny (nee Salinas). Of Riverdale, NY, on October 16, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Victor. Devoted mother of Muriel Saunders and the late Ned. Loving grandmother of William M. and Lorraine Saunders White and great-grandmother of Brendan and Alison Saunders. Services and funeral ar
 MERMELSTEIN-Irene. On October 16, 1999, at the age of 90 years. Much beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was loved by all and gave her heart and soul to her family. She is survived by daughter, Myra Koss, who took care of her for more than five years; son, Seymour and dau
 TANNENBAUM-Sarah. Congregation Orach Chaim and Sisterhood record with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member for more than half a century. A survivor of the Holocaust, a true ''Aiches Chayil,'' together with her husband they built a home of the highest ideals of Torah and Chesed.
 Irene Heskes, a historian and author who specialized in sacred and secular Jewish music, including music of the Yiddish theater, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. She was 76 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The cause was aplastic anemia, said Dr. Alan M. Kraut, her 
 ALPERT-Betty Langberg. On October 17, 1999 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Harry Alpert. She is survived by her children Deborah and Martin Fishbein of Philadelphia, PA., her nieces and nephews Paula and Ephraim Biran, Arnold and Dagnija Langberg plus many great and great greats. Mrs. A
 BANK-Diana (Donya), On October 16, 1999, at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Mother of two sons, Stanley and Carolyn, and Jerry and Mary Ann. Grandmother of Matthew. Graveside Service, Wednesday, 11 am, at the New Mount Carmel Cemetery, Glendale, NY. Contributions in her memor
 BILLINGS-Marion. 84, of Briarcliff Manor, on October 16, 1999. She was the former personal manager for the late Sergio Franchi, the Italian tenor. Also worked for the William Morris Talent Theatrical Agency in NYC. Survived by one son, Gary Billings, and one daughter, Bonnie Billings, and l
 EDWARDS-Agnes (Nan). Died October 4, 1999 at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, age 79. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, she move to London in 1938 with the outbreak of war in 1939 in the country's complete mobilization she chose nursing training at Royal Free Hospital. After attaining her RN
 HAIGHT-Yolanda. The Board of Directors and membership of the Junior League of Northern Westchester notes with sadness the untimely death of League member Yolanda Haight, and extend heartfelt sympathies to her husband Drew and two sons, Andrew and Aaron. Her commitment to community service, 
 HARRISON-Wilma Curley. Died on October 16th, 1999, at St. Luke's Hospital. She was born in Brooklyn, on April 1st, 1937 to Tomas and Wilma (Abt) Curley. She was a Prima Ballerina and Choreographer. A graduate of the School of American Ballet, she danced with them & the New York City Ballet,
 NADLER-Fay. On October 14, 1999. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Abe. Loving mother of Harvey. Also survived by grandsons Daniel Drew and Jeffrey Neil, their wives Jeanine and Joanna, and great granddaughters Jessie Alana, Sarah Michelle and Siri Jennifer. Contributions in her memory may b
 PHELAN-Sondra. A loyal and committed alumna and member of The Ethel Walker School Board of Trustees. Her enthusiasm, compassion, and deep caring for her alma mater will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with her. Our deepest sympathies go to her two sisters and niece who also att
 SAMTON-Margot. The wonderful mother of our Partner, Peter, has passed and we mourn her warmth and sincere interest in the well-being of others. The Partners and staff of Gruzen Samton admired her keen interest in our professional lives, our families, and our personal happiness. We extend ou
 SHAPIRO-Beatrice F. 73, of Las Vegas, NV, formerly of West Orange, NJ and Hoboken, NJ, on October 18, 1999. Beloved wife of Arthur Shapiro, mother of Alexis Peter and Oliver Simon; grandmother of three. Sister of Paul Fogelson, aunt of seven. Dear friend of many. The lives of all who knew h
 STEIN-Zofia (Sonia). Wife of the late Maks, mother of Bianca Lloyd and the late Jack Stein, loving grandmother of five and greatgrandmother of seven. Passed away October 15, 1999. Services were held. The family will be grateful if any contributions in her memory would go toward the New York
 Nathalie Sarraute, the Russian-born French novelist who remained an influential and innovative literary figure long after she first gained fame as the doyenne of the Nouveau Roman movement in the late 1950's, died today at her home in Paris. She was 99 and also had a country home in Cherenc
 CHUNG-Ruth W. Of New York City, passed away on October 18, 1999, at the age of 83. Family matriarch and beloved wife of over 50 years of the late C.Y. and sister of the late Irene Lee, Elsie Wu, and Dale Bing Wong. Devoted mother of Janice Lee, cherished Auntie of Betty, Doris, Gloria, Kent
 EDGELL-Stephanie. On Oct. 17, 1999. Beloved daughter of Stephen Maurice Edgell and Elsie Aldrich Edgell Campbell, sister of Stephen M. Edgell Jr. and Helena Franklin, and aunt of Stephen M. Edgell III, Helena Rozier, George Franklin, Cynthia Franklin, & Sheila Lieber. Cherished by her many 
 LEVITIS-Esther. October 17, 1999, in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Levitis; survived by her loving children, Susan and Saul Nimowitz, and Gerald and Karen Levitis; grandchildren David Nimowitz, Debby and Aby Laznik, and Wendy, Jason and Daniel Levitis; great-grandchildren Aa
 LUSK-Ellen. On October 18, 1999 of complications from osteo-arthritis. Beloved daughter of the late Anne and Irving Lusk. Sister of Pearl L. Copeland. Aunt of Beth Copeland Williams and Aimie Stark. Great aunt of Mia Stark. She will be deeply missed. Funeral service Thursday, October 21, 12
 MOSER-Hilda. Wife of the late Leo Moser. Died Monday afternoon. She will be greatly missed by her cousins and her many friends. Services will be held at the Sanctuary of Mt. Lebanon in Queens, 7800 Myrtle Ave, Glendale, NY, Thursday, October 21 at 2pm.       
 PHELAN-Sondra. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved colleague and friend. Her wise and understanding heart will remain with us always. Gillian Walker, Anne Rivers, Marcia Stern, Susan Shimmerlik, Pat Heller, Ana Escalante, Martha Edwards The Unique Minds Program       
 ROSTAN-Alice. Died on Monday October 18, 1999, at her home. Funeral services will be held on Friday, October 22, 1999, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 SAMTON-Margot (nee Fiegel). Of Scarsdale. 90 years old. Cherished wife of 67 years of Henry A. Samton; beloved mother of Annette Marcus, Claude and Peter Samton; adored grandmother of Josh, Matthew, Zach, Noah and Daniel Samton, Jessie and Mimsy Marcus; revered mother-in-law of Emily Samton
 SAUER-Renate. On October 15, 1999 after a short illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. John J. Sauer. She will be remembered and greatly missed by her many friends whose lives she touched. Donations may be made in Renate's memory to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Israel Medical Center, First
 SIEGENFELD-Charlotte. On October 18, 1999. Beloved wife Saul, loving mother of Jane, Andy and Billy. Famously proud grandmother and great grandmother. Devoted friend and dedicated teacher. Donations may be sent to her favorite charity, The New York Times Neediest Case Fund.       
 FREIBERG-Sylvia. July 15, 1911 to October 20, 1998. Stronger than she realized, Sylvia lived almost three years after the death of her beloved husband, Sam, bringing much joy (and much laughter) to her family and friends. Now her ashes lie next to his beneath cherry and crabapple trees plan
 COOPER-Fay. Of Boca Raton, FL and South Orange, NJ. On October 19, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Donald J. Devoted mother of Arlene Cooper and Richard Cooper. Loving grandmother of Jonathan, Ariane and Gregory Brainin. Services Thursday, October 21, 1PM at Menorah Chapels, Union, New Jerse
 LAZAR-Rosa. Age 86. Passed away peacefully on October 19, 1999 at her home. Beloved wife of Arthur Lazar for what would be 58 years on this November 9. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Matti and David Schlang and the late Laurence Lazar. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Julie Schlang. Lo
 LUSK-Ellen. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend and mentor. Her warm heart and wise counsel continue to inspire us. Our love forever, Emily and Andy Meisler       
 PHELAN-Sondra. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers acknowledges with deep regret the passing of Sondra Phelan who faithfully served on the Board for 23 years. Mrs. Phelan served on the Executive and Scholarship Committees. She was a strong advocate for childrens' rights and was dedicated to 
 SQUADRILLI-Renata of NYC and Rome, Italy, on 10/19/99. Adored mother of Beatrice and Armanda, beloved wife and soulmate of the late Alex, cherished mother-in-law to Renato and Cheryl. She loved life and music, and touched everyone she met with her beauty, magnetism, and grace. Donations in 
 BORODKIN-Esther, of Coconut Creek, FL and Valley Stream, NY. Beloved mother of Barry, Linda, and Richard Melnikoff. Grandmother of Jack and Tracy. Sister of Beatrice Wanger. She will be forever missed. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Friday, 12:30PM. BO
 CHUNG-Ruth W. Of New York City, passed away on October 18, 1999, at the age of 83. Family matriarch and beloved wife of over 50 years of the late C.Y. and sister of the late Irene Lee, Elsie Wu, and Dale Bing Wong. Devoted mother of Janice Lee, cherished Auntie of Betty, Doris, Gloria, Kent
 EDELSTEIN-Sarah. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Sarah Edelstein, mother of Leah Silverstein, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National
 GERSON-Rose. At 97 years (nee Schlanger). Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, loving mother of Melvin and Sylvia, Janyce Dratch and the late Sol. Adored grandmother of the late Ivan, Roberta, and Adrienne. Cherished great grandmother of Joanna, Meredith, David, Nicole, Tara, and Lindsay. She
 GLASER-Helen. Passed away on Thursday, October 14th, 1999 in California. She is survived by two loving sisters, Elise Kapell and Claire Strauss. Helen held a Master's Degree in Language and Art & had an extensive art collection. She was a theater and ballet critic for several Palo Alto news
 HARMON-Nora Alkalay Schueller Born Nagy Bisce, Hungary 1909, died New York City October 9, 1999. A beautiful, courageous, strong woman, she lived and died on her own terms. She will be remembered by all who knew her for her charm, intelligence and beauty. A Memorial will be held on Saturday
 LAZAR-Rosa. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime and founding member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern Jr., Rabbi Emeritu
 LEMPEL-Blanche (Blume), died peacefully, in her own home Wednesday evening, October 20, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Lemel (Leon); loving mother of Paul and daughter-in-law, Frances, the late Michael Klahr and his wife, Phyllis, Yolande Krieger, and Steven and daughter-in-law, Jolanda. Sh
 LOUIS-Susanne M. We wish to announce the passing of our beloved mother and grandmother Susy on October 20. She passed away peacefully at home. She experienced life to the fullest and gave very much to very many. The family wishes to thank Eva, Maria, Shirley, Fastina and, above all, Dr. Joh
 NICKENS-Annie. The members of the Brooklyn Museum of Art Community Committee are deeply saddened by the sudden death of Annie Nickens, a devoted member and dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Edith Gothelf, President Community Committee       
 OLIVER-Rose. On October 20, 1999, of heart disease, at her residence in Peterborough, NH. She was a clinical psychologist with a Ph.D. from CUNY. For a number of years she was associated with the Institude for Rational-Emotive Therapy, in addition to her private practice. Survivors are her 
 PHELAN-Sondra. The Officers and Trustees of the William J. Matheson Foundation note with sadness the passing of our dedicated and courageous Trustee, Sondra Phelan. She will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her husband, Jim, and to her children.       
 ROTHMAN-Fritzie nee Steigerwald. On October 20, in her 89th year. Dear cousin of the late Esther Strunsky and of Frances Whitney.       
 ASIEL-Betty L. Of White Plains, New York died on October 22, 1999 at Presbyterian Hospital. She was 81 years old. Mrs. Asiel is survived by her husband, E. Nelson Asiel; three children, Harold N., Terri L., John H. Asiel; two grandchildren, Carrie A. Grammas and Scott N. Asiel & one great g
 BIRNBAUM-Lee. On October 21, 1999. Loving wife of the late Robert Birnbaum, beloved mother of Karen Stechel & Ronnie. Loving mother-in-law of Temi and Dr. Richard Stechel. Cherished grandmother of Jaime, Erica, Matthew &Todd. Services at Guttermans's, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New Yo
 DAVIS-Maria, age 89, of Fort Lauderdale, died October 21, 1999, formerly of New York City. Predeceased by her husband, Russell Davis. Survived by her son, John Billovitz of Fort Lauderdale; sisters, Helen Neundorfer of Ridgefield, CT, and Anna Obojkovits of Tobaj, Austria; many nieces and n
 GLUCK-Ruth Rubin. Cherished wife of Marshall. Loving mother of Abbe and Simon. Adored daughter of Anna and the late Moses Rubin. Beloved sister of Judy Rubin. Dear daughter-in-law of Gertrude and Milton Shapiro. Admired sister-in-law of Bill, Richard and Melissa Gluck and Garth Hayden. In h
 OLIVER-Rose. On October 20, 1999, of heart disease, at her residence in Peterborough, NH. She was a clinical psychologist with a Ph.D. from CUNY. For a number of years she was associated with the Institude for Rational-Emotive Therapy, in addition to her private practice. Survivors are her 
 Penelope Mortimer, an English author who drew on her complex and often turbulent relationships with men in writing novels like ''The Pumpkin Eater'' and a heatedly debated account of the romantic life of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, died on Tuesday at a London hospice. She was 81 and 
 Wilma Curley, a ballet and Broadway dancer who became noted for restaging works by Jerome Robbins, died on Oct. 16 at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure, said the dancer Christian Holder, a friend. Ms. Curley was 
 ASIEL-Betty L. Of White Plains, New York died on October 22, 1999 at Presbyterian Hospital. She was 81 years old. Mrs. Asiel is survived by her husband, E. Nelson Asiel; three children, Harold N., Terri L., John H. Asiel; two grandchildren, Carrie A. Grammas and Scott N. Asiel & one great g
 BIDDLE-Katharine Montgomery. 29, of Charlottesville, VA. died peacefully October 19, 1999. She was born in Huntington, NY, December 9, 1969. She is survived by her parents: Nicholas Biddle, Jr. and Joan Moore Biddle; two sisters: Barbara McCloud Biddle and Virginia Morris Biddle. Funeral se
 GLUCK-Ruth Rubin. Cherished wife of Marshall. Loving mother of Abbe and Simon. Adored daughter of Anna and the late Moses Rubin. Beloved sister of Judy Rubin. Dear daughter-in-law of Gertrude and Milton Shapiro. Admired sister-in-law of Bill, Richard and Melissa Gluck and Garth Hayden. In h
 LEVINE-Frieda (nee Kabakov) of Deal, New Jersey. Formerly of Jersey City, New Jersey. Born in Minsk, Russia. Passed away on September 30th, 1999 after a brief illness. Wife of Morton M. Levine, deceased in 1990. Adored mother of Isadora L. Chamlin & husband George, Deal; Irwin Levine and wi
 LOBSTEIN-Alix Grace, on October 22, 1999 in Geneva, Switzerland. She was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Albert Labouchere of Paris, and granddaughter of the late philanthropist Grace Whitney-Hoff of Detroit and Paris. Survivors include her 4 children, Elaine deWitt Tournesac, and Emm
 MORSE-Emily Potter, 67, of Pound Ridge, New York, on October 19, 1999. Wife of the late Forbes Morse; daughter of the late Allen and Emily Tillinghast Potter; graduate of Milton Academy, Wheelock College, Pittman's College (U.K.) and New York University Graduate School of Business; teacher 
 OLIVER-Rose. On October 20, 1999, of heart disease, at her residence in Peterborough, NH. She was a clinical psychologist with a Ph.D. from CUNY. For a number of years she was associated with the Institude for Rational-Emotive Therapy, in addition to her private practice. Survivors are her 
 TAUBER - Pauline. Courageous and valiant, with a keen intellect. Totally devoted, she loved being with her family. She is greatly missed by husband Manny, children Joan, Lenny and Marilyn, grandchidlren Robert, Ilyssa, Bonnie and Jon, and her shining light, great-grandchild Mollie.       
 WAGSHUL-Ruth. The Members and all employees of Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C. mourn the death of this warm, caring and conscientious fellow employee and extend to her husband Michael, her sons Bruce and Jeffrey Eisenhart, her siblings and her mother, Ethel Nadler, our deepest sympathy. We pray that
 WOLFF-Barbara E. Age 58, October 22, 1999, peacefully at home on the upper westside. She was an Assistant Commissioner of NYC, she served as Treasurer and member of the Baord of Directors of Cap 21. She enriched our lives with her brillance, humor and dedication. She is survived by her devo
 ZIEGLER-Barbara Sutro. Of New York City, on October 21, 1999 at the age of 91. Widow of Dr. James E. Ziegler, Jr. She will be greatly missed by her brother-in-law, Karl Ziegler, her nieces, Lady Barbara Bowen Larcom and Mary Sutro Callender, her nephews, Dr. Michael Sedgwick Sutro and Denis
 Maria Ley Piscator, a theater arts teacher and director and the widow of the theatrical director Erwin Piscator, died on Oct. 14 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. She was 101. Born in Vienna, Ms. Piscator began her theatrical career as a dancer in Berlin and
 HAYNES-Nancy Townsend. Age 86, of Naples, FL, formerly of Bronxville, NY, died on Friday, October 22, 1999. She was born in NYC and was a graduate of Vassar College and The Brearley School and was a member of Christ Church, Bronxville, since 1952. Surviving are her children Lathrop T. Hayne
 LaGUARDIA-Joan S. Age 87, of Ft. Lee, NJ, died October 23, 1999. Born in 1912, in Brooklyn, NY, of Tommasina and Saviano Sbordone. Graduate of CCNY, she was the only woman to pass the New York State CPA exam in 1937. Author of ''Like Coming Home,'' a memoir of growing up as a daughter of It
 STRAUS-Carol (nee Kemp). Of Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Herbert and Sonja Straus, Karen Straus and Joyce and Michael Koplik. Loving grandmother of Elayne Suber, Amanda and Adam Straus, and Abigail, Kathryn and Michelle Koplik. Proud greatgrandmother of
 WASSERMAN-Marilyn M. Wonderful wife of Arnold J. Wasserman for 52 years, beloved mother of Andrew Roy Wasserman and Joanne Dougan, and loved grandmother of Nici Wasserman and Fiona Starr Dougan. Died on Thursday, October 21, at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, CA, from a cerebral hemorrhage
 WOLFF-Barbara. The New York City BID Managers' Association, representing New York's 41 business improvement districts, notes with sadness the death of Barbara Wolff, our dear colleague, mentor and friend. For more than 20 years, Barbara provided extraordinary leadership and guidance to larg
 YOUNG-Hope Aspell. Died in her 96th year. She was cherished by her young friends.       
 Wendy Scott, who had one of the most severe cases on record of a syndrome in which people feign illness or make themselves sick to get medical treatment, died on Oct. 14 at a hospice in South London. She was 50. The cause was intestinal cancer, said Mary Jane Lang, a friend of Miss 
 Barbara Wolff, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts program and in the commercial revitalization program that followed the blackout of 1977, died Oct. 15 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 58.    
 ABRAMOWITZ-Penny Bard. Age 46. Beloved wife of Jed. Adoring mother of Jacob, Alex, and Peter. Loving sister of Amy and Michael. Adored by mother and father Norman and Shirley; loved by many friends and relatives. Died on Sunday, October 24, long before her time. She will live on in the hear
 BUZZELL-Claire. 92. Of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, passed away on October 23rd, 1999. She is predeceased by her loving husband, Al, and devoted son, Robert. Riverside-Gordon Memorial Chapel, Tamarac, FL, 954-523-5801.       
 FEINMAN-Ilene. Passed away peacefully after a long illness. Beloved wife of 45 years to Jerry. Devoted mother to David and Tammy Feinman, Nancy and Don Nowak, and Wilma Beth Feinman. Adoring grandmother to Rebekah and Ariel. Loving sister to Barbara & Paul Seidenberg. She will always be mis
 GROSSMAN-Sylvia. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 McCORMACK-Gladys. October 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late James. Gladys was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in 1907 and immigrated to the U.S. at the age of 22 and settled in NYC. She is survived by a sister, Margaret Todd, in County Antrim, Northern Ireland, and one niece and two nep
 NEE-Rayetta. On October, 19, 1999. Graduate of The Masters School, Bryn Mawr College, Oxford University, Harvard Law School, and The NYU Law School Tax Program, Rayetta will be deeply missed by her classmates, by her friends from the summer house, and from The Church of The Ascension, where
 PRESSMAN-Fay E. Of Forest Hils, New York, died Oct. 24, 1999 of brain cancer. She was beloved wife of Lenny, dearest mother to Anita and Jay, devoted sister to Warren, special niece to Marilyn, wonderful aunt to Glen and Eric, cherished great aunt to Olivia. We will all miss you.       
 SILVA-Filomena Barreto, M.D. Age 53. Of Scarsdale, New York. Died October 25, 1999. Survived by loving husband Jose V. Silva, M.D., children Paulo, Nicole and Mark, mother Cremina V. Barreto, brother Joao Sales Barreto, M.D. and sisters Fatima P. Pereira, Maria Lourdes Moniz & Suzette Barre
 SOREN-Sydelle (Rosenberg). The Mesivta of Long Beach marks with profound sorrow the loss of Mrs. Sydelle Rosenberg Soren (Sora Rasha bas Nachman) of blessed memory. Mother of our dear friends, Mr. Stephen Rosenberg, Mrs. Lisa Lifshitz and Mrs. Eileen Plotkin. Her strength of character and h
 WOLFF-Barbara. On behalf of the people of Queens County, I extend sincere sympathy to the family, friends and colleageus of Barbara Wolff, Assistant Commissioner of the NYC Department of Business Services. Her dedication to many Queens' neighborhoods have made them better places to live, wo
 Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter. She was 100. Miss (her preference) Foveaux (pronounced FOH-voh), a snowy-haired great-great-grandmother, li
 ASIEL-Betty L. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Betty L. Asiel, a cherished friend who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences to her beloved husband, E. Nelson Asiel, who shared her commit
 ECKMAN-Frances B. Age 92. Loving widow of Leo Eckman (of blessed memory). Adoring mother of Judith Eckman Jadow and (Julian Jadow). Treasured grandmother of Anna, Lindsay, Eric and Jon. Loved by nieces, nephews and friends. Died on Sunday, October 24, 1999. She will live on in all our heart
 HARLEY-Margaret, on October 26, 1999. Beloved widow of Neil. Mother of Margaret-Ann, Neil Jr., Bobby, and the late Kevin; grandmother of Megan, Erin, Neil III, Terrence, Robin and Dustin. She was a graduate of Mount St. Vincent College and a world traveller. Her favorite pastimes included T
 KELLY-Mary Lou. On October 26, 1999. In deep faith and enduring hope, cherished wife of James R., loving mother of James F., solicitous sister of Reverend James N. Loughran, S.J. and the late John F. Jr., precious daughter of the late John F. and Ethel Loughran. Typically, rather than the f
 WARNER-Jo. A painter, she died on October 25, 1999, from complications of bone marrow cancer. Raised in Idaho Falls, and a graduate of The University of Colorado, and The Art Students League, in New York, she had many one woman exhibitions during her career at galleries including the Camino
 Linda F. Pezzano, a marketing consultant who helped what once was an obscure Canadian board game, Trivial Pursuit, achieve sales totaling more than $1 billion, died Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 54. She died of cervical cancer, said her brother David. The Trivia
 ESSELSTYN-The Rev. June Mitchell (Micki) Bingham, 57, on October 27, at her home in Gainesville, FL, of a brain tumor. Wife of Erik C. Esselstyn for 32 years. Mother of June Eriksson (Jody) Esselstyn, RN, of New Haven, CT and Blakeman Bingham Esselstyn of Boston, MA. Daughter of June Bingha
 FRUCHTMAN-Yetta. On October 26th. Beloved wife of the late Theodore, mother of Gloria and Irwin, grandmother and great grandmother. She was a quiet rock to our family for a century. Graveside services on Thursday, October 28 at 11 A.M., at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Queens. Call 718-939-9405 fo
 GOODNER-Kathleen W. Born in Ireland, of Bronxville, N.Y., on October 27, 1999. Wife of John T. Goodner, MD. Mother of MaryLou Resciniti and John McAllister Goodner. Grandmother of Alex Resciniti. Also surviving are her brothers and sisters in England & Ireland and Father Leo McAllister of S
 KAMINER-Phyllis. Adored wife of Henry. Beloved mother of Martin and Ariel. Dear sister of Sandra Handel. Cherished daughter of the late Gladys and Max Wasserman. She was Founder and President of Instructional Systems, Inc. Passed away on October 27 after a prolonged illness. As a friend, a 
 KELLY-Mary Lou. On October 26, 1999. In deep faith and enduring hope, cherished wife of James R., loving mother of James F., solicitous sister of Reverend James N. Loughran, S.J. and the late John F. Jr., precious daughter of the late John F. and Ethel Loughran. Typically, rather than the f
 LISMAN-Ruth Elliott. On October 26, 1999. Beloved wife of Bruce. Loving mother of Kate and Maggie. Devoted daughter of Eleanor and the late Allen. Cherished sister of Jeff. Dear daughter-in-law of Lily and Irving. We loved her and will miss her. Service Thursday, 1:45PM, at ''The Riverside'
 LUKASHOK-Eve. Eve was grace personified. All those who knew her will miss her. Eddy and Hannah Low       
 MONAHAN-Jeremiah P., Rev. Monsignor. Suddenly on October 25, 1999. Chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York, loving brother of Patricia Paoli and her husband Ralph, Agnes O'Donohue and her husband John, Catherine Lessuk and Andrew Monahan. Dear uncle of Ralph, Brian and Andrew Paoli, Tara 
 SILVERSTEIN-Reva. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Beverly Albert on the loss of her beloved mother. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 Ginette Lesley Harrison, an outstanding alpinist, was lost in an avalanche on Sunday on one of the most treacherous Himalayan mountains.  She was 41. A British-born physician who specialized in high-altitude medicine, Dr. Harrison was part of an 11-member international expedition sc
 GREENBERG-Meryl. On October 27, 1999. A woman of grace, wisdom and class, more than the sum of her roles. Beloved wife of the late Abel. Cherished mother of Adrienne and Alvin Bodenstein, Doris and Joel Leifer. Adored grandmother of Marcy and Steven Pontell, Mark and Ann Marie Lieberman, La
 KAMINER-Phyllis. Adored wife of Henry. Beloved mother of Martin and Ariel. Dear sister of Sandra Handel. Cherished daughter of the late Gladys and Max Wasserman. She was Founder and President of Instructional Systems, Inc. Passed away on October 27th. after a prolonged illness. As a friend,
 KRAUS-Estelle. Wife, mother, and beloved daughter-in-law. Passed away October 28, 1999 in Delray Beach, FL. Estelle was an extraordinary woman who pioneered in business for many years. She is survived by her daughter Dr. Michelle Kraus of Menlo Park, CA. and her son Andrew Kraus of Rockvill
 LISMAN-Ruth S. Elliott. The officers of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extend our most sincere condolences to the family of Ruth S. Elliott Lisman who waged a valiant battle against her disease. She was determined to help young investigators find a cure for breast cancer. We promise 
 MARTINEZ-Alice Eugenia Johnson. On October 27, 1999 at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arturo Martinez. Mother of Alice Eugenia Aragones. Grandmother of Jay Johnson Aragones, Alice Eugenia Vergara, and Patricia Courtney Aragones. Great grandmother of Peter Augustine, Benedict Xavier, a
 McAFEE-Mary Ann. On October 26, 1999. Survived by her daughter Kathryn Hall Baxter, son, James Armstrong Baxter, grandson William Stuart Baxter-Bray and brothers William Gage McAfee and Stuart Reeves McAfee. Memorial services Monday, November 1st, 3PM at Church of the Heavenly Rest, NY, NY.
 ALPERN-Gertrude. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow, the passing of Gertrude Alpern, a distinguished former member. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Bernard Steinweg, President Heidi Klein, Secr
 BROWN-Eleanor A. 76 on October 28, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Ben Brown, mother of Joshua and Jennifer, grandmother of Gideon and Daniel, mother-in-law of Julie and Talbot. A creative spirit and keen mind, Eleanor was attorneyat-law, fashion designer, and loving wife and mother. She als
 DeBLASIO-Jo. A painter, known by the name of Jo Warner. Died on October 25, 1999, from complications of bone marrow cancer (multiple myeloma). Raised in Idaho Falls, and a graduate of The University of Colorado and The Art Students League of New York, she had many one woman exhibitions duri
 FEINBERG - Elizabeth (nee Smith). On October 21, 1999. Respected and beloved former teacher at New Dorp High School, Staten Island. Former Chairman of the Department of English, Walton High School, Bronx. Beloved wife of the late Sol Feinberg, dear mother-in-law of Wera Hildebrand, loving g
 KAMINER-Phyllis. The Neuropsychoanalysis Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute mourns the passing of the beloved wife of our esteemed member of the Board, Henry Kaminer, MD. We extend our deepest sympathy to her devoted husband and their family. Arnold Z. Pfeffer, MD, Chairman    
 PLASTRIK-Simone. The Editors of Dissent Magazine mourn the passing Simone Plastrik. Simone was listed on our masthead as the Business Manager, but she was much more than that: she was our heart and soul. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family and to her many, many friends. We will mis
 DeBLASIO-Jo. A painter, known by the name of Jo Warner, died on October 25, 1999 from complications of bone marrow cancer (multiple myeloma). Raised in Idaho Falls, and a graduate of the University of Colorado and the Art Students League of New York, she had many one woman exhibitions durin
 LORBERBAUM-Shirley J. Of Boca Raton, Florida, died Friday, October 22, in Dalton, Georgia. Mrs. Lorberbaum was a carpet industry pioneer, a community leader, philanthropist and, along with her husband, co-founded Aladdin Mills, which in 1994 merged with Mohawk and Karastan to become the sec
 MARTINEZ-Alice Eugenia Johnson. On October 27, 1999 at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arturo Martinez. Mother of Alice Eugenia Aragones. Grandmother of Jay Johnson Aragones, Alice Eugenia Vergara, and Patricia Courtney Aragones. Great grandmother of Peter Augustine, Benedict Xavier, a
 MCAFEE-Mary Ann. The Brokers and Staff of Douglas Elliman mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Mary Ann McAfee after a recent illness. Mac started her real estate career w/Douglas Elliman and consistently represented the firm in a thoroughly professional, honest and straightforwa
 ROSENBERG-Gertrude. 99, died at her home in Mount Kisco on October 25, 1999. The widow of Max Rosenberg of Bedford Hills, she was a past President of the Senior Citizens of Mount Kisco and a devoted volunteer at Northern Westchester Hospital into her nineties. She will be missed by her gran
 TON-Kathie. In memory of Kathie Ton-she loved life and enjoyed her thirty years to the fullest. Her four brothers thank her for her guidance and her Mom thanks her for her company. We will forever cherish our family trips and many moments together. We will miss you dearly and are very proud
 WITT-Eleanore. 93, of Del Mar, CA. Passed away on October 25, 1999. She was the loving wife of the late Murray Witt. Survived by Patricia and John Zeitlin of Stamford, CT, and JoAnn and Paul Lapolla of San Diego, CA; seven grandchildren and nine greatgrandchildren. She will be missed by all
