 Capt. Kathleen McGrath, the first woman to command a United States Navy warship, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. She was 50 and lived in McLean, Va. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Peggy McGrath. Captain McGrath became comma
 BLICKSTEIN-Florence. Died September 29, 2002. She was of Spring Glen, NY and the retired co-owner and operator of the Homowack Lodge. She is survived by her two daughters, Karen and Ellen, and her three loving grandchildren: Michael, Ann and Maia. Funeral services will be held today at Cong
 COHEN-Judith H. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of a treasured member of the Marlboro Family. To her husband Isidore, our dear friend and Senior Participant since 1966; to her daughter Erica and granddaughter Ana-Luz and to her son 
 DEUTSCH-Frieda. On September 28, 2002. Wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Alex (Edith). Devoted grandmother of Adam (Francine), cherished great grandmother of Eliana. Services were held yesterday. She will be missed greatly by all who knew her.       
 GRANGER - David. The American Society and US Priory of the Order of Saint John offers deep condolences to Mrs. Granger and sons in the loss of our dear friend and esteemed colleague David Granger, OBE, K. St. J., longtime Treasurer of the American Society, a Life Governor and by Her Majesty
 GREENBERG - Lillian. On September 30, 2002, beloved wife of Marvin, loving mother of Barbara and Michael Goldstein, Janet and Norman Baker, Frank and Karel Greenberg. Cherished grandmother to Julie, Emily and Diana Lichter, Alix and Danielle Greenberg and Jenny Rose Baker. Dear sister of Et
 LEAL-Patricia. Died peacefully at home on September 29th, 2002 at the age of 73. Preceded in death by her husband Jack. Devoted mother of Andrea, Brian and Diane. Adored grandmother of Jason, Kevin and Alison. Cherished sister of Clyde and Kenneth. Loving daughter of Gladys Broderick. Pat w
 McINTYRE-Helen Pond. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of Barnard College are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved trustee emerita, alumna, and friend of the College, Helen Pond McIntyre, Barnard class of 1948. A former president of the Associate Alumnae of Barnard College 
 REINHART-Stephanie. Tango Kinesis Dance Company of Argentina, Ana Maria Stekelman, Artistic Director, is deeply saddened upon learning of the death of Stephanie. She shared her love of dance around the world. Our sympathy to Charles & the family.       
 ULLMANN-Hanni. We are deeply saddened by the passing at the age of 94 of Hanni Ullmann, the Founding President of Neve Hanna in Kiryat Gat, Israel. Hanni was a gracious, dynamic and selfless lady. In 1933 Hanni was one of the leaders of the Ahava Home for Children and Youth at Kiryat Bialik
 WEISMANN-Anne. On September 28, 2002 at age 72. Originally from North Carolina Mrs. Weismann was former head registered nurse at Doctor's Hospital, NY, NY. She did extensive volunteer work at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church. Beloved wife of the late Henri Andre Weismann. Loving sister of Mildr
 Wendy Hilton, a specialist in Baroque dance, died on Sept. 21 at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was cancer, said Edward Manowitz, a friend. Ms. Hilton, who was born in England, came to New York in 1969 to direct the Dance Collegium of Rosalyn Tureck's Internati
 ANDERSON-Joyce Lenore. On September 22, 2002. Beloved wife of Earl. Devoted mother of Mark, Wendy Petersen, and Scott. Loving grandmother of Brooke Paige and Danielle. Cherished sister of Susan Weiner. Daughter of the late Louis and Sarah Weiner. Born September 16, 1930 in Brooklyn, New Yor
 BLUMBERG-Carolyn A. On September 30, 2002. Beloved wife for 69 years of Edward J., devoted mother of Nancy & Bob. Loving grandmother of Lori, Todd, Gary, Julie and Karen. Her beauty, grace, kindness and wise serenity lit up our lives. Services and entombment at Mount Lebanon Cemetery, Frida
 GOLDBERG-Eleanor. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Eleanor Goldberg, an esteemed member and extend to her beloved husband, Calvin and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secretary    
 HAFF-Joan Pennywitt, 78. Of Hillsborough, CA, passed away peacefully September 27, 2002 after a courageous battle with cancer. She was born on August 19, 1924 in Yonkers, NY to the late John Pennywitt and Rosmand Runyon Pennywitt. Joan was the beloved wife of Theodore L. Haff Jr. for 55 yea
 HALPERN - Ruth, 95. Mourned by her children Miriam and Jerry Lewis; Charles and Janel Halpern. Adored by her grandchildren, Wendy (and the late Lori) Lewis; Meredith and Arthur Halpern. Shiva 180 West End Av, NYC.       
 McINTYRE-Helen P. Died on September 27. Beloved wife of Randall P. McIntyre. Devoted mother of Virginia McIntyre, Mark P. McIntyre and Archie McIntyre. Grandmother of seven. Sister of Warren B. Pond, Jr., and dear friend of many. Memorial service on October 5, 12:30 PM, at St. John's Episco
 SCHAUF-Vioreca O., also known to her friends as Riki. Daughter of the late Milian and Mary Oversia. Beloved wife of the late Robert William Schauf. Devoted mother of Robert W., Jr. and Michael Schauf. Loving grandmother of Jessica and Michael Schauf Jr. Memorial service in the Asbury Method
 TESORO-Giuliana. Formerly of Dobbs Ferry, NY on September 29, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Victor. Loving and caring mother of Claudia Tesoro and her husband Rick Greenstein and Andrew Tesoro. Dear grandmother of Deborah and Victor. Devoted sister of Giorgio Cavaglieri. Funeral Wednesday 
 WEISMANN-Anne. On September 28, 2002 at age 72. Originally from North Carolina Mrs. Weismann was former head registered nurse at Doctor's Hospital, NY, NY. She did extensive volunteer work at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church. Beloved wife of the late Henri Andre Weismann. Loving sister of Mildr
 HECHT-Arlene (nee Shotz). Wife of George Hecht, of San Diego, on September 16, 2002. With her husband she owned the Buyways Gallery for over 20 years, first in Greenwich Village, later in Sarasota. In addition to her husband, she is survived by her two sons, Donald Rosenberg and Fred Rosenb
 NEVAS - Libby. American Jewish World Service mourns her loss. We extend our deepest sympathies to Leo, a member of our Board, and to the Nevas family. Ruth Messinger, President Martin Friedman, Chair       
 NEWMAN-Debra S. tragically in St. Louis on October 1, 2002. Struck down in the prime of her life, Debra touched the lives of all she came in contact with. Born on June 13, 1980 to her proud and loving parents, Howard and Ann (Solomon) Newman. Debra graduated from Ethical Culture School in R
 PITSON-Victoria Zacharia. Recording Secretary of The Ladies Auxiliary of The Sephardic Home For The Aged for over 25 years. We extend our deepest condolences to her children, Gabrielle, Daisy and Estelle and her entire family. She will be remembered for her dedication to the residents of th
 deALCALA-Brunetta. Formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on October 1, 2002. Beloved mother of Brunetta Winthers, Christine Nagy and Donna and Joseph DeMatteo. Cherished Nanny Bruny to six grandchildren. Loving sister of Eleanor, Stella and the late Charles. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 MALONEY-Jeanne C. Of Delray Beach, FL and Rye, N.Y. Formerly of Bronxville, N.Y. Died October 3. She is survived by her eight children, Edward, Jr. of Greenwich, CT, Barbara of Washington, D.C., Jimmy of Kent, England, Peter of Westport, CT, Maureen Bowen of Greely, CO, Jeffery of Hartsdale
 NEWMAN-Debra S. Tragically in St. Louis on October 1, 2002. Struck down in the prime of her life, Debra touched the lives of all she came in contact with. Born on June 13, 1980 to her proud and loving parents, Howard and Ann (Solomon) Newman. Debra graduated from Ethical Culture School in R
 RIEMER-Mildred Simon. On October 1 at 98. A graduate of NYU and Columbia University School of Social Work, she worked in children and family services in NY, Washington, DC, and Cleveland for 45 years. In 1994 she became a member of the National Women's Hall of Fame. Ever learning, always ca
 SALOMON-Edith. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved, dedicated member Edith Salomon. We will miss her loyalty to our congregation and her participation in our Adult Choir. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her nephew, Marc Salomon, and all her dear ones. Robert N. Le
 SAMETH - Anne. Passed away on October 2nd in her 83rd year. Beloved mother of Robert and Ellen, wife of the late Allan, sister of Mindy Brownstein and the late Evelyn Weinberg and grandmother of Alex and Ethan. She will be missed.       
 deALCALA-Brunetta. Formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on October 1, 2002. Beloved mother of Brunetta Winthers, Christine Nagy and Donna and Joseph DeMatteo. Cherished Nanny Bruny to six grandchildren. Loving sister of Eleanor, Stella and the late Charles. Funeral service will be held at Frank E. Ca
 GOLDREYER - Constance Nancy Grace (nee Barber). A very young 71 years, she lived her life filled with smiles, love, enthusiasm and laughter. A spectacular wife, mother, grandma and great friend to so many. She is survived by her husband Len, daughters Nancy Davilman (Andrew) Jill Goldreyer 
 SCHWARTZ-Ruby. October 2, 2002 in Port Elizabeth, SA. Through her incredible love she touched all our lives.       
 STEINHORN-Harriet. Of Ellenville, New York and Aventura, FL., died October 2nd, 2002 in Port Chester, NY. She was the former owner and operator of the Grand Mountain Hotel in Greenfield Park, N.Y. She is survived by her loving daughter, Amy, & her husband, Brad Kreinces, one sister, Helen H
 EISEMAN-Alfred. Age 83, on October 1st, in Westport, CT., beloved husband of Alberta Eiseman, father of Margot Eiseman and her husband Robert Benedict, Nicole Eiseman, grandfather to Rachel and Laura Benedict, Lily and Jack Fitch. Memorial services Sunday, October 6th at 1:00 PM from Abraha
 FRIEDMAN-Elaine. Passed away on September 30, 2002 at the age of 79. She was the beloved wife of Martin Friedman, mother of Lois Herzeca and the late Kenneth Friedman, mother-in-law of Chris Herzeca and grandmother of Jane and Nicholas. Her love, generosity and humor will be remembered alwa
 GOLDREYER - Constance Nancy Grace (nee Barber). A very young 71 years, she lived her life filled with smiles, love, enthusiasm and laughter. A spectacular wife, mother, grandma and great friend to so many. She is survived by her husband Len, daughters Nancy Davilman (Andrew) Jill Goldreyer 
 SCHLEUNING - Dorothea Mae (nee Smeltzer). Died October 1, 2002, at her home in Ramsey, NJ. She was born October 7, 1906, daughter of Chester A. Smeltzer, former Mayor of Ramsey and Bergen County Freeholder and Mary Elizabeth Winters, a descendant of 17th Century Bergen County families, Jame
 SINDELL-Alma. Of Miami, Florida, passed on Wednesday, October 2, 2002. Devoted mother to Brian, Sam, and Ina. Devoted grandmother to Jaime, Jordan, Jessica, Bradley, and Brittany. She was a beautiful and fearless lady and a real survivor. We will always love and miss her. The memorial servi
 STEINHORN-Harriet. Of Ellenville, New York and Aventura, FL., died October 2nd, 2002 in Port Chester, NY. She was the former owner and operator of the Grand Mountain Hotel in Greenfield Park, N.Y. She is survived by her loving daughter, Amy, & her husband, Brad Kreinces, one sister, Helen H
 Helen Dudar, a prolific New York journalist and freelance writer on cultural subjects, died on Aug. 1 at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her husband, Peter L. Goldman, said. Ms. Dudar, who grew up on Long Island, started her 
 GOLDSMITH - Vivian. A mother, stepmother and grandmother who loved life and children very much. She will be missed and her memory will be cherished by us all. James and Monica, William, Victoria and Lloyd, Grace, Spencer, Regina and Robert       
 KARTEN-Julia. Of Spring Valley and New York City died on October 5 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was surrounded by her beloved children and grandchildren. Only 16 at the outset of WWII, Julia, who met her husband Isidore in the Polish underground, fought by his side in the Jewish Resistance. C
 KENT-Evelyn Endresen. Of Greenwich, CT, and Vero Beach, FL, died Saturday, September 28, 2002. An Eileen Ford model, she is survived by her husband, Dr. Edwin H. Kent and her three children.       
 KLEIN-Gloria Beverly. In loving memory of wife, mother and grandmother. December 9, 1929-October 4, 2002. Mother of Phillip, Rena and Debbie and grandmother of Jessica, Gregory and Alexandra. May we always remember her dignity and grace. We will miss her.       
 SCHUMAN-Seymour. On October 5, 2002, at age 86. Born in NYC, attended City College, founder and Chairman of Propper Manufacturing Company, real estate developer in Long Island City and winner of the Tom DeLay Business Leadership Award. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Ina (and 
 WHITE-Ruth. Our darling sister died on Sunday, October 6, after a long illness. Ruth was an advertising executive but her first love was the theater. Known as Joniruth White in the theater she was an original member of the Roundabout Theater Company, toured France and Italy with Robert Wils
 Nancy Stephenson Nichols, an executive recruiter who helped stellar educational and cultural institutions find stellar executives to lead them, died last Wednesday in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 57 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Clinton Corners, N.Y. The cause was 
 BACKAR-Heather Hazell. Of New York City, interior designer, on October 6, 2002 after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Her beauty, generosity and good humor were appreciated by clients, family, friends and those that had the good fortune to know her. She leaves behind her adoring, he
 BUNTING-Natalie Augusta. Of Hudson View Gardens, NYC, on October 5, 2002, at Calvary Hospital at the age of 82. Survived by Mary Bunting of Arizona and several nieces an nephews. Mrs. Bunting worked for the National Council of Churches as well as the United Board for Christian Education. Mr
 DONOVAN-Joan D., 76. Died September 17, in Scottsdale, AZ. She was preceded in death by her beloved husband of 47 years, Dr. Raymond J. She was born in Queens, NY, graduated from Woodhaven High School, the College of New Rochelle, and received her Master's Degree from Columbia University. S
 ELKINS-Dr. Deborah B. Of Manhattan, age 90, on October 3, 2002. Beloved sister of Vivian Elkins, Henrietta & Joseph Gitlin and predeceased by her adored sister Gertrude Elkins. Cherished aunt of Ronna & Dana Woodward and Drs. Karen & Richard Weiner. A dynamo with a magnetic personality and 
 GREENBERG-Goldie (Heller). Of Nashua, NH, formerly of New York City, on Sunday, October 6, 2002. She was an Advertising Vice-President and was one of the first Art Directors to help Andy Warhol get started. Beloved wife of the late Edward W. Greenberg. Devoted sister of Eileen Heller of Sal
 KARTEN-Julia. The Officers and Board of the American Society for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Julia Karten. Julia, with her late husband Isidore Karten, Vice Chairman of the American Society, survived as partisans and became leaders in Holocaust Remembrance. They were Benefactors twice a
 NICHOLS-Nancy. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend Nancy Nichols, cherished wife of our former colleague Rodney W. Nichols, longtime Executive Vice President of The Rockefeller University. Energy, grace, and intelligence were manifest in Nancy, along with a warm and loving h
 PRINS-Esther. On October 6, 2002. Loving mother of Betty and Fred, cherished grandmother of Rich, Noel, Kevin, Billy and Kenny, adored Auntie of Monique, sister of Shelly, sister-in-law of Mimi, and a loving great grandmother. She was loved and will be missed by all. Funeral service was hel
 Mia Slavenska, a ballerina celebrated both for her authoritative technique and for her red-haired beauty, died on Saturday at a retirement center in Los Angeles where she had lived in recent years. She was 86. A glamorous dancer with a vivid stage presence, Ms. Slavenska was especia
 BACKAR-Heather Hazell. Of New York City, interior designer, on October 6, 2002 after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Her beauty, generosity and good humor were appreciated by clients, family, friends and those that had the good fortune to know her. She leaves behind her adoring, he
 HERSHKOWITZ-Sylvia, 87, on October 7. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Irving Hershkowitz and beloved mother of Rhona and Jay. Dear friend of many. Her great spirit and courage, her sense of humor and her love of life will always be remembered.       
 KORNGOLD-Pola. Of NYC. Passed away September 21, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Israel Korngold. Devoted mother of Manya, Aaron and Marsha. Cherished motherin-law of Barry and Israel. Proud grandmother of Daniel, Lauren, Lisa and Eric. Her zest for life, courage and caring will be deeply mi
 MILLER-Doris. The Society for the Advancement of Judaism records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime, devoted member Doris Miller. We extend our condolences to her entire family. Michael Strassfeld, Rabbi Abraham Clott, Bd. Chm.       
 NICHOLS - Nancy. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sadness the loss of their great friend, Nancy Nichols. From her personal generosity to her hand in shaping our staff, her mark on the institution is indelible. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Pres
 RIESS-Marion, 90, on October 5, 2002. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Chester Riess. Cherished mother of Claudia Wasserman and Jonathan Riess, grandmother of Eric Wasserman, Lise Luftschein, and Christopher Morgan-Riess, great grandmother of Emily and Brian Wasserman, and Danielle and 
 ROBINSON-Mary T. (nee Dillon), age 72, died on Monday, October 7, 2002 at her home in Middletown, NJ. She was predeceased by her husband Francis X. Robinson Sr. in 1994, and her son Ned Robinson in 1995. Her late husband retired from Time, Inc., NYC, in 1986. She is survived by her three so
 WILKING-Dr. Virginia Nichols, died in Greenville, DE on October 7. Virginia Center Nichols was born in NYC on Jan. 13, 1920. She was educated at the Brearley School in Manhattan and graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1941. Dr. Wilking received her medical degree from the Columbia College o
 DAVIS-Frances Fabyn. The Board of Directors, staff and residents of Leake and Watts Services, Inc., Yonkers, N.Y. mourn the loss of a dear and good friend. ''Fuzz'' was elected to the Board in 1957, served as President from 1972 to 1977 and worked on numerous committees through the years. S
 LINCOFF-Daphne Doran. 80. Of New York City, on October 7, 2002. Beloved mother and grandmother. Her family and many cherished friends greatly miss her.       
 METCALF-Mary K. Of Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY. Died October 5, after a brief illness. Born Mary Dorothy Keresey on March 21, 1926, Mimi was the daughter of the late Henry Donnelly Keresey and the late Mary Dorothy Kelley, and the granddaughter of the late Cornelius Francis Kel
 ROBINSON-Mary T. (nee Dillon), age 72, died on Monday, October 7, 2002 at her home in Middletown, NJ. She was predeceased by her husband Francis X. Robinson Sr. in 1994, and her son Ned Robinson in 1995. Her late husband retired from Time, Inc., NYC, in 1986. She is survived by her three so
 TAUB-Ruth (Schoenberg). On October 9, 2002. After a courageous battle with cancer. She left this world the way she lived it, with dignity and gentle humor. Beloved wife of the late Melville Taub. Devoted mother of Mark (Maxine), Terry (Fred) Klein and Sande (Robert) DeStefano. Adored Nana o
 Mary Maxine Reed, who in 1971 won a landmark Supreme Court case that struck down dozens of state laws discriminating against women, died on Sept. 26 near Boise, Idaho. She was believed to be about 93, though she would not tell her age, her lawyer Allen Derr said. On Nov. 22,
 BARRY-Helen L. Of Miami, and Pelham, NY, died October 1, 2002, surrounded by her adoring family. Born September, 1923 in Brooklyn to Miriam (nee Anhalt) and Joseph Shapiro. She is survived by children, Karen Mayer, Michael and Jonathan Barry, brothers Jay and, Emmanuel Shapiro. Interment Oc
 DAVIS-Ashleigh. The Board of Directors and members of The Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our member, Ashleigh Davis, daughter of Martin and Zehava Davis. Her fun loving sense of spirit and strength will always be remembered. Our deepest sympathy to the family.
 DAVIS-Frances Fabyan. Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies mourns the passing of Mrs. Frances (Fuzz) Fabyan Davis, a highly respected and beloved friend. Mrs. Davis was a member of our Board and Council for over 27 years, where she served on the executive, public social policy and plan
 KUHNS-Margaret. Services were held on Wednesday in Pittsburgh for Margaret Heuer Kuhns, 91, who died on Saturday, October 5th from complications caused by a 4year bout with Alzheimer's. Raised in East Pittsburgh, PA, Mrs. Kuhns was the daughter of the late George and Marie Heuer. She was ma
 LIST-Vera Glaser, 94. Of Greenwich, CT, on October 10, 2002. Survived by three daughters and their spouses, Carol and Eric Schwartz of Denver, CO, Olga and George Mack of NYC, and Viki Laura List of Rosemont, PA. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by h
 LITTWIN-Harriet (nee Golding). Wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Steven and the late Cookie and Ruth. She is also survived by her sisters, Ruth and Florence, as well as many grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Services today, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterd
 NEWITT-Elizabeth Earnest. On October 3rd. Much loved and sadly missed mother of Cyrus and Margaret Newitt, beloved grandmother of Jeanine Colombi and Elizabeth Laura Newitt. Longtime performer and member of The Snarks, Ltd, and Associate Member of the Amateur Comedy Club. Her loss is deeply
 BATES - Victoria Freling huysen. Of Brielle, NJ, died at her residence on Wednesday, October 9, 2002. Widow of John Glenville Bates Jr. Mother of Emily Bates Douglas of Stanford, CT, Anita B. Glasson of Pine Beach, NJ, Joseph S.F. Bates of Parkdale, OR, and the late John G. Bates III. Siste
 FOSTER-Marjorie Lydia, 92. Of New York City, died on September 4, 2002. She was born in Bristol, CT on March 1, 1910 to the late James and Laura (Gilbert) Foster. A graduate of Wellesley College, she lived in New York all her adult life. She worked for the New York Public Library in acquisi
 LIST-Vera Glaser, 94. Of Greenwich, CT, on October 10, 2002. Survived by three daughters and their spouses, Carol and Eric Schwartz of Denver, CO, Olga and George Mack of NYC, and Viki Laura List of Rosemont, PA. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by h
 NORWIN-Rose Ann, 70. Died October 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late William Heyman. Cherished mother to Laurie (Gerardo) Pina, Mitchell (Joan) Norwin and Wendy (Wayne) Zeilner. Adored grandmother to Mariel, Alyssa and Kevin. Loving sister to Richard (Sulamita) Heyman and nephew Paul Heyman
 Phyllis Calvert, a ladylike actress who packed British movie theaters in the darkest days of World War II with her performances in wildly melodramatic, escapist costume dramas, died on Tuesday in London. She was 87. Along with Margaret Lockwood, Stewart Granger and James Mason, the 
 BLOOM-Florence (Liz). Of Roosevelt Island, NY, died Tuesday, October 8, 2002, at 82. The cherished daughter of Pauline and Jacob Brill and beloved sister of Harold and Hy, she was married for 55 years and adored by her family and many friends. Liz leaves her husband Jules, her daughters Jan
 COBERT-Ruth. On October 11, 2002. Beloved mother of Barbara November. Wonderful friend and mother-in-law of David. Adoring grandmother of Tania. Dear wife of the late Edwin Cobert. She leaves many treasured friends. Lover of life, friendship, justice, books, theater and music. She cared abo
 DYM-Jean C. October 11, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Elias (Al). Cherished mother of Carol Abrams and Marcia Yatter. Adored grandmother of Carise and Douglas Yatter. Beloved mother-in-law of Ron Yatter. Loving aunt to Leonard Romm. Her warmth, humor and practical insights will be deeply m
 FAY-Harriet. At age 65. On October 11. An accomplished orchestra leader, jazz pianist, and cabaret performer, she was predeceased by her son, Michael Cohen. She is survived by her daughter Alice Cohen, three brothers, Dr. Stuart Levin, Charles Levin, and Myron Levin of Los Angeles, eight ni
 FISCHER-Rose. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Rose Fischer and extends heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 LIST-Vera Glaser, 94. Of Greenwich, CT, on October 10, 2002. Survived by three daughters and their spouses, Carol and Eric Schwartz of Denver, CO, Olga and George Mack of NYC, and Viki Laura List of Rosemont, PA. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by h
 METCALF-Mary K. Of Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY. Died October 5, after a brief illness. Born Mary Dorothy Keresey on March 21, 1926, Mimi was the daughter of the late Henry Donnelly Keresey and the late Mary Dorothy Kelley, and the granddaughter of the late Cornelius Francis Kel
 NELSOVA-Zara. It is with profound sorrow the Violoncello Society of New York mourns the loss of our esteemed President, distinguished soloist and teacher. She was an inspiration to our musical world.       
 PUFFER-Dr. Ruth Rice. Biostatistician at the Pan American Health Organization, World Health Organization, died September 2, 2002, at her home in McMinnville, Oregon. She was 95. Dr. Puffer served as Chief of the Department of Health Statistics of the Pan American Health Organization 1953 - 
 SARASON-Frances. A joyful artist, talented designer, world traveler and connoisseur of music and the visual arts. An innately curious individual who took great delight in her international arena of friends, family, artists, activists and intellectuals. Her youthful spirit and passion for so
 STEVENS-Christine G. On Thursday, October 10th, 2002 of Washington, D.C. Beloved wife of the late Roger L. Stevens. Beloved mother of Christabel Gough. Services are private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers to honor her memory donations may be made to The 
 WEISBERG-Martha, 73. Of New York City, a designer in fashion and the decorative arts, died on September 27. Her style, creativity and honesty will be deeply missed by all who loved and knew her. A dear friend, she leaves a loving husband of 54 years, Robert Weisberg, a daughter Carla Weisbe
 Vera G. List, a forward-looking philanthropist whose causes included contemporary art, opera, education and social justice, died Thursday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 94. Mrs. List, who received the National Medal of Arts from President Bill Clinton in 1996, was born Vera
 FRIEDMAN-Elinor Lee. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Murry Friedman, adored mother of Amy, Betsy, Geri & Nancy. Cherished grandmother and mother-in-law. Died peacefully on October 10th in Longboat Key. She will be in our hearts forever. Contributions in her memory may be made to Habitat for Hu
 STEVENS-Christine G. On Thursday, October 10th, 2002 of Washington, D.C. Beloved wife of the late Roger L. Stevens. Beloved mother of Christabel Gough. Services are private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers to honor her memory donations may be made to The 
 XENIA-Rose. Celebrate having been blessed by having known her. October 16th, 5PM. Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.       
 Christine Stevens, who devoted her life to protecting all creatures -- elephants, whales and laboratory animals -- died last Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Washington, where she was a leader of social life. She founded the Animal Welfare Institut
 BEDFORD-Pauline (nee Allalouf). Age 77, passed away October 11, 2002 after a brave battle. Paula was raised on the Lower East Side, was a truly devoted mother, and never knew how smart she was. She is survived by brother Maury Allalouf, and son & daughter Robert and Felice Bedford. Service 
 BLACKBURN-Sara. Died on October 12 at age 66. We mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend. We will miss her wise counsel, her deep intelligence, and her sharp wit. As an editor and writer, she was the midwife to innumerable books and manuscripts. As a friend, she nurtured and tended he
 COHEN-Harriet (nee Zichlinsky). Beloved wife of Ben. Beloved mother of David, Elon and Ami. Beloved sister of Elliott Zichlinsky; beloved mother-in-law of Leah and Shanit; adored grandmother of Daniel, Joshua, Debbie, Coral and Mirell. She was our rock, our center, the glue that kept us all
 COUNSELMAN-Diane L. (Titone), 52. Died October 4th in Seattle, WA in a boating related accident. Ms. Counselman grew up in Morristown, NJ and graduated from Rutgers University. She moved to Manhattan in 1980 where she worked as a management and information technology consultant. The majorit
 GOLDSTEIN-Joy. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Joy Goldstein, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 LIST-Vera Glaser. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Vera List, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Vera and her late husband, Albert, expressed their devotion to social and humanitarian causes through thei
 REBOTSKY-Esther B., 91. Passed away on October 13, 2002 surrounded by her loving family. Beloved wife of Hyman, devoted mother of Sam and Joyce, Ruth and Walter, Marilyn & Kenneth, adoring grandmother of Jonathan and Shelley, Lisa and Mike, Lori and Alison and great grandmother of Max. Sist
 ROSEMAN-Audrey Renee. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Roseman, beloved and devoted mother of Donna and Jeffrey, dear sister of Ellie and Gerald, loving motherin-law of Ted and proud and adoring grandmother of Emma Faye, passed away peacefully after a long illness. Her grace, intelligence,
 TULIPAN - Annette Baker. Died peacefully October 13, the 62nd anniversary of her wedding to the late Ira Tulipan. Born November 14, 1914 in Hudson, NY and graduated from Cornell University, she lived her adult life in New York and London and since 1993 at Wake Robin in Shelburne, VT. Loving
 XENIA-Rose. Celebrate having been blessed by having known her. October 16th, 5PM. Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.       
 PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. A memorial service for Barbara S. Preiskel will be held on Wednesday, October 16, 4:30 PM, at the New York City Bar Association, 42 West 44 St. Contributions in her memory may be made to The New York Community Trust, 2 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, for the Barbara
 LAUB-Lola (nee Levine), 72. On October 14. Beloved wife of Jack. Devoted mother of Monica and Roberta. Loving stepmother of Steven, Susan and son-in-law Mitchell. Cherished sister of Sarah, Mary and brother-in-law Joseph. Also survived by loving family, Jeryl, Debbie, Michael and David. Ser
 LIST-Vera G. The Board and Congregation of Temple Sholom, Greenwich, CT. mourn the loss of our longtime member and benefactor, Vera G. List. Vera List and her late husband Albert List were devoted and generous supporters of this institution for more than half a century. We will always be in
 MAYNARD - Augusta Poe. Died peacefully at her home in Southampton, New York on October 8, 2002. She was the much loved wife of the late Walter Maynard of Water Mill, New York, and New York City. She is survived by her stepsons, Walter Maynard, Jr. and John Maynard, her stepdaughter Sheila M
 MICHEL-George Alexander. On Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002. Beloved brother of Thalia and her husband Stanley Ciaputa. Adored uncle of Alexander, Daria, Georgia and Lydia Ciaputa. Funeral services Friday 11 AM, The Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 E. 74 St, New York City. Friends may call Wednesday 7-9 
 REBENFELD-Ellen Vogel. Died at the Medical Center in Princeton, NJ, on Monday, October 14, 2002, after a brief illness. Born and raised in New York she had been a resident of Princeton since 1954. She was the wife of Dr. Ludwig Rebenfeld, the former President and Director of TRI/Princeton (
 ROSEMAN-Audrey Renee. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Roseman, beloved and devoted mother of Donna and Jeffrey, dear sister of Ellie and Gerald, loving motherin-law of Ted and proud and adoring grandmother of Emma Faye, passed away peacefully after a long illness. Her grace, intelligence,
 WAGNER-Janet Prichard. On October 13, 2002, at 77. Survived by her children, William Wagner, Elizabeth Wagner Vaughan. Devoted grandmother of Becket Wagner and Breck Parsons. Sister of Elizabeth Prichard. A graduate of Adelphi College and a master's degree from NYU School of Education. Boar
 Patricia Hochschild Labalme, an executive and a trustee of foundations that give major support to education and scholarly research as well as a scholar of the Renaissance, died on Friday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 75 and also lived in West Cornwall, Conn.      
 GERSHON-Miriam. Her extended family at Music Theatre International deeply mourns her passing. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Gershon family.       
 HOLT-Waring Inge. Died on October 13, 2002, Waring Inge Holt of Point Clear, Alabama, formerly of New York. Survived by her husband, Thaddeus Holt of Point Clear, and children Sarah Holt of Washington, D.C., and Harrison Holt of Point Clear. Funeral arrangements private.       
 LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. On October 11, 2002, at the age of 75. She was the wife of George Labalme Jr., mother of Jennifer R. Labalme, Henry G. Labalme, Lisa G. Osterland & Victoria A. Labalme, grandmother of six, and sister of Ann H. Poole, all of whom mourn her passing. A graduate of 
 LYTTLE - Hannah. Sister hood of Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of our past President. Our condolences to her family.       
 MICHEL-George Alexander. On Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002. Beloved brother of Thalia and her husband Stanley Ciaputa. Adored uncle of Alexander, Daria, Georgia and Lydia Ciaputa. Funeral services Friday 11 AM, The Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 E. 74 St, New York City. Friends may call Wednesday 7-9 
 ROSEMAN-Audrey Renee. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Roseman, beloved and devoted mother of Donna and Jeffrey, dear sister of Ellie and Gerald, loving motherin-law of Ted and proud and adoring grandmother of Emma Faye, passed away peacefully after a long illness. Her grace, intelligence,
 ROSIER-Belle (nee Merl). Age 93 of Scottsdale, Arizona, formerly of New York City. On Wednesday, October 16, 2002. Beloved mother of Paul of Phoenix & Robert (Linda) of N. Caldwell, NJ. Much loved grandmother of Philip (Christine), Linda (Andrew), Richard (Michelle) and Jeffrey (Allison). L
 WACHTEL-Lillian R. On October 15, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Allen. Dear mother of Norman and Andrea, and mother-in-law of Robin. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Charles and Cristal. Service private. WACHTEL-Lillian R. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records wit
 Tatyana M. Velikanova, a Soviet human rights activist who was a leading editor of the most important samizdat journal of human rights abuses and spent nearly nine years in prison camp and exile, died of cancer on Sept. 19. She was 70 and lived in Moscow. Ms. Velikanova, a mathematic
 GARMESEY - Tillie. Our mother, a feisty, optimistic lady who had inner strength, honesty and love of God. As well as a loved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, she was a friend. Love forever. Adrienne & Marty & family Jamie and David and family       
 HEIMAN-Margaret, of Santa Monica, California, New York and Erfurt. Born in 1906 in Leipzig. Passed away peacefully on October 14th, 2002. We mourn our beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She is survived by her son Peter, and daughter-in-law Annabelle, grandchildren Bruce and D
 KARLTON-Beatrice C. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Beatrice C. Karlton. Devoted wife of the late Sydney M. Karlton. Beloved mother to Cindy and Ken Klein and Linda and Arthur Brainson. Beloved grandmother to Jill and Mark Berger, Sharon and Richard Pogostin, Mitchell an
 LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. On October 11, 2002, at the age of 75. She was the wife of George Labalme Jr., mother of Jennifer R. Labalme, Henry G. Labalme, Lisa G. Osterland & Victoria A. Labalme, grandmother of six, and sister of Ann H. Poole, all of whom mourn her passing. A graduate of 
 NELSOVA-Zara. In loving memory of our late, gracious friend Zara Nelsova, brilliant performer, inspiring teacher, perhaps the greatest female cellist of the 20th century, who concentrated all of her intelligence, physical energy, and artistry into every performance, and gave so generously t
 ROSEMAN-Audrey Renee. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Roseman, beloved and devoted mother of Donna and Jeffrey, dear sister of Ellie and Gerald, loving motherin-law of Ted and proud and adoring grandmother of Emma Faye, passed away peacefully after a long illness. Her grace, intelligence,
 Zara Nelsova, a prominent cellist who recorded Ernest Bloch's ''Schelomo'' for cello and orchestra with the composer conducting, and appeared with major orchestras in North America and Europe, died on Oct. 10 at her Manhattan home. She was 84. She studied Bloch's cello works with hi
 Catherine Connelly, who as an 11-year-old in 1904 escaped the inferno that burned the General Slocum, an excursion boat in the East River, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Wilton, Conn. She was 109 and was one of the last two survivors of the disaster, according to a commemorative grou
 Eileen Jackson Southern, a scholar of Renaissance and African-American music and the first black woman to be appointed a tenured full professor at Harvard University, died on Sunday at her home in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 82. As a researcher, author and teacher, Dr. Southern doc
 DUBNO-Dorothy (nee Watton) of Queens, NY on Friday. Beloved wife of Irwin. Dear mother to Janis and Bina. Loved grandmother to Kobi and Natalia and loving sister of Abraham Watton. We will miss her unconditional love and support. Funeral Sunday 1:30PM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Quee
 LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. The Faculty, Trustees and staff of the Institute for Advanced Study are deeply saddened by the loss of Patricia Labalme, friend, colleague and scholar. She was the Associate Director of the Institute from 1982-1988; Secretary of the Corporation from 1982-1992; A
 LUCAS-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, faculty and families of Grace Church School and the Board and families of Early Steps honor the memory of Nancy Lucas. As a Trustee she was a voice of wisdom. She brought humor, intelligence and wit to every event. She was an ambassador for independent sc
 NELSOVA-Zara. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Zara Nelsova, extraordinary artist and dedicated cello faculty member at the School from 1985 to 2001. An artist of exceptional creativity, she embodied the very best attributes of a special teacher and a caring human being. She will 
 ROSENFELD-Evelyn Peck, 78. Of Hewlett, New York, and Tamarac, Florida. Devoted mother, grandmother, sister, and aunt, adored by her family. Everyone who came in contact with her will remember Evelyn for her strong spirit, her wonderful sense of humor and enthusiasm for life. With integrity 
 WILCOX-Karen G. Bard College mourns the passing of Karen G. Wilcox, who died on October 17 after a courageous struggle with lung cancer. From 1969 to 1977, she worked at Franconia College in New Hampshire. In 1977, she became dean of admissions at Bard College. She was a beloved colleague a
 STEEL-Courtney. The soul takes flight to the world that is invisible but there arriving she is sure of bliss and forever dwells in Paradise.       
 AUSTIN-Helen. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Helen Austin and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Leonard & the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 CAPOSSELA-Carolee (Cappy). Lyricist, author and advertising creative director, died at her home Thursday, October 17, 2002, following a nine-month battle with brain cancer. She was a copywriter at Y&R, DFS, Geer DuBois and creative director at Ketchum Advertising and Della Femina/Jeary & Pa
 COHEN-Edith. At the age of 97. Loving aunt of Dr. Grace L. Griffenberg and Julian Levine. She was honored, respected and loved by great and great-grand nieces and nephews. She adored her family. She treasured the 40 years she spent as a NYC school teacher touching thousands of lives. We all
 CUOMO-Carmela. On October 18, 2002. Loving sister of Michael. Sister-in-law of Elaine. Fond aunt of Jenifer, Michael and Christopher. Grandaunt of Jenifer and Matthew. She lived for others and will be deeply missed. Reposing at Gannon Funeral Home, 152 East 28th St, NYC, Monday and Tuesday,
 FOGEL-Adelaide F. On October 17, 2002. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. Services Monday, 11 AM, at Temple Israel, 112 East 75th Street, NYC. FOGEL-Adelaide F. Cherished trustee emerita and member of the Temple Israel family for generations. Our sincere condolences to he
 KATZ - Mildred H. Died peacefully at home on October 17, 2002, at the age of 96. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Katz. Mother of Tony Hill and Polly Hill Landess, stepmother of Laura Katz and John Katz. Loving grandmother to Simon and Elliot Hill, Joshua, Michael and Nicholas Landess and K
 KEISER - Elissa. Beloved mother of David, wife of Richard, and sister of Carmela, Helen, Anne, Ella, and Leonora, passed away Wednesday night, after a two year struggle with cancer. A former teacher and school business administrator, she will be remembered as a kind, compassionate, and gene
 LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. On October 11, 2002, at the age of 75. She was the wife of George Labalme Jr., mother of Jennifer R. Labalme, Henry G. Labalme, Lisa G. Osterland & Victoria A. Labalme, grandmother of six, and sister of Ann H. Poole, all of whom mourn her passing. A graduate of 
 LaBANCA - Marguerite T. Formerly of Whitestone and Manhattan on Saturday, October 19, after a prolonged battle with breast cancer. She is survived by her mother Teresa LaBanca, her two sisters Rose Ann Berardi and Teresa Fuhr and her brother Joseph. She is lovingly remembered by her niece a
 NELSOVA-Zara. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Zara Nelsova, extraordinary artist and dedicated cello faculty member at the School from 1985 to 2001. An artist of exceptional creativity, she embodied the very best attributes of a special teacher and a caring human being. She will 
 NEWMAN - Margaret S. (Maggie). Died October 19, 2002. Loving and beloved wife of Harold M. Newman, daughter of the late Albert Strauss and Gertrude Greenwald, mother of Robert P. Newman, mother-in-law of Katheryn, sister of Helen Strauss, sister-in-law of Betty Abrams. Born 1921. Graduate o
 PHILLIPS - Hana Gininger ''Ginny'', 88, died October 11, 2002, at home in Coconut Creek, FL. She was the widow of Dr. Herman Phillips and managed his medical practice for 31 years on Lincoln Road. They moved to Miami Beach from Brooklyn in 1944. A graduate of Girls High, and Brooklyn Colleg
 TAYLOR - Claire. Beloved wife of the late James A. Devoted mother of Marjorie Rosenberg. Cherished grandmother of Barry and Robin, Laurie and Joseph. Greatgrandmother of Alyson, Julian, Jack and Jennifer. Loving sister of Jackie Kahn. TAYLOR-Claire. Valued and courageous woman whose
 TERKELTAUB - Frances. Age 78, of Boca Raton, FL, died October 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Isak Szternszus and sister of Jerry Gulbas. Devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Predeceased by first husband, Carl Terkeltaub. She will be sorely missed. The Simantov, Sunshine, Terkeltaub
 FREIBERG-Sylvia. 7/15/11 10/20/98. Four years of missing her. We can still hear that laugh. The Family       
 Aileen Riggin Soule, a diver and swimmer who at age 14 became the youngest American Olympic gold medalist and later became the oldest living American female gold medalist, died Thursday in a nursing home in Honolulu. She was 96. At the 1920 Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium, Riggin won t
 BROWN-Muriel. Born in Old Forge, PA, and resided in Del Ray, FL. Preceded in death by her husband Fred, brothers Morris, Harry, and Irving, sisters Pearl, Sylvie, Ida and Ruthie. Survived by her children Arline and Lester Zuckerman, Jerilynn and John Noto; grandchildren Richard and Brenda Z
 HAMILTON-George L. 78, of Monmouth Beach, NJ, on October 17, 2002, a former Director at Dominick & Dominick, NYC. Beloved husband of Joanne (nee Shook), father of George and Benjamin Hamilton, Jean Marie and her husband Richard Drucker, Mary Kate Hamilton and her husband Gary Pardee. Brothe
 KAROSEN-Mary Vivian. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Kansas City, passed away on October 19, at her home in Boca Raton, FL. Services will be held Tuesday, 1 PM, at Louis Memorial Chapel in Kansas City. Mary was born in Kansas City and was a graduate of Central High School. She was the ''Swin
 LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. The Trustees and staff of the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation fondly remember our colleague and friend Patsy Labalme. Patsy was our senior trustee who, in many important ways, shaped the work and goals of the foundation. Her intelligence, character, good judgem
 LANDES-Henry M. Loving husband of Lotte and her family Madelaine, Bill, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Dear uncle of Cerole, Arnie and their children and grandchildren. Services Wednesday, October 23, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 NEWMAN - Margaret S. (Maggie). Died October 19, 2002. Loving and beloved wife of Harold M. Newman, daughter of the late Albert Strauss and Gertrude Greenwald, mother of Robert P. Newman, mother-in-law of Katheryn, sister of Helen Strauss, sister-in-law of Betty Abrams. Born 1921. Graduate o
 PAGE-Eloise Randolph. On Wednesday October 16, 2002 of Washington DC. Sister of the late Randolph Rosewell Page, Jr. Also survived by extended family, the Randolphs of Virginia and Washington DC, the Pages, the Dunnings, the Harrisons and the Mitchells, all of Virginia. Also survived by her
 PLOSKY-Gertrude. January 28, 1910-October 19, 2002. She is remembered with great affection by the members of her extended family.       
 ROSS-Libbie. Of Merrick, NY, October 19, 2002, at age 89. Beloved wife of Jesse, devoted mother of David (Carol) Ross and Laura (Jeffrey) Blumenfeld, adored grandmother of Peter (Maria Grazia) and Jeremy Ross, Jennifer (Graham) Schwarz and Joshua Blumenfeld. Loving sister to Nettie Schnure,
 RUBEN - Selma. Cherished wife of Lawrence. Beloved mother of Richard, Lenore and Rochelle. Adored grandmother of Tamara, Danielle, William, Andrew, Melissa, Robert, James, Allison and Caroline. Devoted sister and sister-in-law of Robert Belfer, Renee Belfer, Jack Saltz and the late Anita Sa
 TORO-Puli. 62, died of ovarian cancer on October 4. Daughter of the late Cesar and Munchita. Leaves a brother, Dr. Cesar Toro, a niece and two nephews, all of San Juan, Puerto Rico. Puli was a brilliant mezzo soprano, inspired teacher and perhaps the greatest interpreter of Puerto Rican mus
 FRIENDLY - Dorothy Greene. On Oct. 19, 2002, in her 84th year. Adored mother of Andrew, Lisa and David. Beloved grandmother of Christopher & James Nicholson & Madeleine & Andrew Friendly. Loving sister of Robert Greene. Memorial announcement to follow. Donations to Rhode Island School of De
 KIZNER - GOLDSTEIN - Ami. Formerly of Bayside, Queens. Passed away October 21 after a hard-fought battle with leukemia. Ami is survived by her loving family and friends. We are all truly privileged to have known and been loved by her. Services today, 11:15AM, at ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Ho
 RUBEN-Selma. The Rockefeller University notes with profound sorrow the loss of our beloved friend Selma Belfer Ruben, a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Council and longtime University benefactor. We join all New Yorkers in saluting the enormous accomplishments of her life. He
 WRAGGE-Elizabeth. Born in Holland, made her professional debut in silent films at the age of three. As a child actress on Broadway she appeared in more than 10 plays. An accomplished singer and dancer, she played with the Gold Spot Pals and was heard as Betty in Beech-Nut's Red Davis over W
 BARATOFF-Catherine (nee Ilovaisky), 95. Of Sea Cliff, LI, NY, October 20, 2002. Daughter of the late Gen. M. Ilovaisky, and wife of the late Nicholas, son of the late Gen. N.N. Baratoff. She is also survived by her children, Nicholas, Jr., Catherine Hills and Michael, grandchildren Elizabet
 HALL-Sr. Thelma M. of the Sisters of the Cenacle, suddenly on October 21, 2002 in Southampton, NY. Sr. was a member of the Sisters of the Cenacle for 53 years. She is survived by her niece Jeanne Flight of Annapolis, MD, nephews Keith R. Hall of Virginia and David Hall of New York. Memorial
 HOFFMAN-Ellen Wheeler. Ellen was deeply loved by her family and we miss her terribly. She enriched our lives but left us too soon. There is a hole in our hearts. HOFFMAN-Ellen Wheeler. We are very sad as we say goodbye to you, dear Ellen. You are gone but not forgotten. You had a tw
 KETT-Eileen. On October 21. Native of Snugboro, Castlebar, County Mayo, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Loving mother of Frances McKenna and Eileen Caulfield. Loving mother-inlaw of Richard V. McKenna and the late William Caulfield. Cherished grandmother of Richard McKenna, Susan 
 RUBEN - Selma. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital are saddened by the passing of Selma Ruben. Her personal generosity, and the generosity of her family included important contributions for medical research and health care. Selma Ru
 SACHS-Beatrice Phillips, 93, of New York City, formerly of Boston, MA, died October 19 in NYC. Loving aunt of Maynard and Suzanne Goldman of Boston and great-aunt to Derek and Emily Goldman of Chapel Hill, NC. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Phillips of Boston and the late Henry Sachs of N
 Eileen Simpson, a writer who probed the depths of her difficult early life and, in a well-known memoir, the tumultuous years with her husband John Berryman and their circle of poet friends, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. ''All poets' wives have rotten lives,'
 BUDASOFF-Josephine, 78. Of Orlando, Florida. Beloved wife of Israel. Loving mother of Daniel (Barbara) and Pedro (Bonnie). Dear sister of Adolfo and Rosita. Cherished grandmother of Terri, Nicholas, Alana, Larry, Natasha and Gabby. Funeral private. Family will receive friends at her home.  
 CLOUSE-Janice M. Of Port Washington, New York. Died on October 17, 2002. Age 61. of a heart attack complicated by Juvenile Diabetes. Janice graduated from the University of Massachusetts and also had an advanced education degree from California State University. Janice was born in Pittsfiel
 DONOVAN-Genevieve Keller, 83. A resident of Short Hills, NJ and Delray Beach, FL, died at Lutheran Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY October 20, 2002. Born in Geddes, SD 1919, raised in Yankton, SD, she was a graduate of the University of South Dakota ('40) and was a member of Pi Beta Phi sorori
 HALL-Evelyn J. Mrs. Evelyn J. Hall, the former Eve St. John, passed away very quietly on October 22 at her home in New Preston CT. She also lived in NYC and spent the winters on Hutchinson Island, FL. She was an accomplished singer and actress. She was born in Chicago and spent her youth in
 LYTTLE-Ada, beloved sister of Joan Birman, Helen Kimmel and the late Ruth Satter; sister-in-law of Joseph L. Birman, Robert Satter and Martin Kimmel; aunt and greataunt died at age 71 on October 23, 2002. She retired to a life of quiet dignity after a long career as a schoolteacher in New Y
 ZANDEL-Roma M. On Wednesday, October 23, 2002. Roma M. Zandel of Rockville, MD formerly of Forest Hills, NY; beloved wife of the late Adam A. Zandel; devoted mother of Susan (Lawrence) Chandler; cherished grandmother of Lisa (Michael) Cordell and Jason Chandler. Graveside service to be held
 Elizabeth Longford, the best-selling biographer and political activist who was the widow of the social reformer Lord Longford and the matriarch of a family that bred other well-known writers, died on Wednesday at her home in Sussex. She was 96. From her school years through the near
 Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and a director of the Hearst Corporation, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said Paul Luthringer, a spokesman for the Hearst Corporation. A granddau
 CORRENTE - Patricia. We mourn the loss of our dear employee Patricia Corrente. All of us that worked alongside of Patty will forever miss her warmth, humor and compassion. Our sympathy and love goes to the friends and family that were close to this very special person. Lazar Corporate Advis
 DePIETRO-Olga. Of Beechhurst, NY on October 23. Died peacefully in her sleep. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Dr. Joseph DePietro. She is survived by her daughter, Phyllis, her sons, Joseph and William, by her grandchildren, Joseph, Deborah, Diana, Douglas, Susan, Michael, Emily and Sar
 JOLLES-Hannah R. On October 23, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Harry, mother of Ira and Andrea, grandmother of Adam and Noah and sister of Leonard H. Rapaport. We will miss her. Graveside services Friday 10 A.M. at Mt. Hebron Cemetery.       
 LYTTLE-Ada, beloved sister of Joan Birman, Helen Kimmel and the late Ruth Satter; sister-in-law of Joseph L. Birman, Robert Satter and Martin Kimmel; aunt and greataunt died at age 71 on October 23, 2002. She retired to a life of quiet dignity after a long career as a schoolteacher in New Y
 MAUER-Rosalyn Bederson, 82. Life-long resident of the Bronx and a committed educator and public schools advocate, died peacefully Wednesday. Loved by Arnold, her husband of 59 years, and her children Peri and Richard, her brother Ben and sister-in-law Betty, her daughter-in-law Barbara, gra
 RUBEN-Selma. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of Selma Ruben, mother of Richard Ruben, sister of Robert Belfer. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to the members of her family. Paul J. Konigsberg, President       
 SANCHEZ-Max G. Age 83, of Teaneck, NJ, formerly of NYC, died Wednesday, October 23, 2002. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Krol). Devoted father of Max, Jr. Loving grandfather of Christina Randel and her husband Christopher. Loving great-grandfather of Joshua. Family will receive friends on Sa
 STAMM-Sara Babbitt. Born May 27, 1916, in Rockingham VT, this indomitable New Yorker died October 19th in Manhattan. She was a passionate cook and the author of the books ''Yankee Magazine's Favorite New England Recipes'' and ''The Park Avenue Cookbook''. After graduating from Vassar in 193
 WIENER-Maurine M. Died on October 23rd in Savannah after a battle with cancer. She had lived in Litchfield, CT; Rye, NY; and with her beloved husband, Leroy G. Monsky, Sr, in Birmingham, AL. for 35 years. She is now survived by the family who loved her - her husband of 12 years, Jules A. Wi
 HOUSEMAN - Joan nee Jeanne Courtney. Who created so many special times and beautiful places in the course of her life, died on this day one year ago in NYC at the age of 85. She is well remembered by her family and by her beloved friends. We miss her greatly. It is a shock to think that so 
 ABRAMS-Mildred. Passed away peacefully on October 24th. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Franklin and Leslie, Elliott and Rachel. Cherished grandmother of Courtney, Jason, Jacob, Sarah and Joseph. Loving sister of Samuel and the late Joseph and Saul Kauder. Sister-in-law o
 BALICK-Sylvia. The Hi-Tech Hebrew School mourns the passing of our dear friend, Mrs. Sylvia Balick. Her friendship, joy and kindness will be greatly missed. Rabbi Naftali Rotenstreich Executive Director       
 ISENBURGER-Anne Landsman. On October 24, in the hundredth year of her age. Cherished aunt of Landis, David, Joshua, Katherine and Elizabeth Olesker. An interior designer, a collector of modern art, an ardent conservationist, Anne was a true original. She will be greatly missed.       
 MINES-Fay Shirley. Of West Orange, N.J. Formerly of West Hartford, CT. Died at the age of 95 on October 24, 2002. The family of Fay Mines mourns her passing. She was the beloved wife of the late Abraham Mines. Mother of Herbert Mines, Patricia Veit and the late Jeffrey Mines; mother-in-law 
 MURSTEIN - Martha. Died peacefully on October 25, at her home in Miami Beach. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Leon. She was personified love, honor, and dignity throughout her 95 years. She is survived by her children, Bernard and Nelly, Alvin and Aileen, Paul and Marjorie; her grandchi
 TIGER-Edith. The Center for Constitutional Rights mourns the passing of our beloved Board member, Edith Tiger. Edith was a tireless fighter for justice who figured in many of the most important political battles of the past 60 years. Edith was one of the founders of The National Emergency C
 BRAVERMAN-Dr. Miriam Ruth Gutman. Of New York City, on October 21st, 2002. Loving sister of Jeanette Bernstein, loving mother of Tommy, cherished grandmother of Matthew Harry and Joel David. Miriam was the former wife of the late Harry Braverman. A professor at Columbia University's School 
 BRODY-Claire. October 25, 2002, died peacefully in her sleep in Providence, Rhode Island. Widow of Steve Brody. True friend of Jean Kalmanoff and Elaine Jupiter. Survived by her daughter Jill, her son-in-law Herb Emers and her loving grandchildren Jenny, Nola and David. In lieu of flowers, 
 CALDERON-Patricia Diane. Patricia Calderon did everything in a special way. She moved from Seattle to New York at age 17. She started her career as a secretary and ended it as a partner in an advertising agency and one of the pioneers and foremost experts in the new field of interactive mar
 CERINO-Natalie. For over 59 years the adored wife of Raphael, died October 22, 2002. Mrs. Cerino was the loving and beloved mother of Carol Baer and Paul Cerino, sister of Ira and George Kapp, sister-in-law of June and Doris Kapp, Elaine Karpf and the late Dorothy Waage. Her many interests 
 ELLIOTT-Madelyn. Of Omaha came to NYC in 1959, moveing easily between Harper & Row and the Metropolitan Opera, working with friends such as Rise Stevens, Christa Ludwig, Evelyn Lear, Birgit Nillsen, Jon Vickers, Joan Sutherland, the late Leonie Rysanek and husband Eleu. She died September 2
 FISCHER-Judith L., 63. Died October 13, 2002 of Lou Gehrig's Disease. Mourned, loved and remembered by her brothers, David and Steve, & family, her ex-husband, Herbert and family, her cousins, Ray and Dorothy, and family, her friend Lenda & family. Lovely, gracious and brave, Judy will be d
 LEVEY - Mignon. Dearest wife of Dudley. Loving mother of Lisa and Tony Ruggirello. Cherished grandmother of Stacy and Julie. She loved and was loved. Services Monday, 11:15 AM, Parkside Chapels, Queens Blvd at 66th Ave, Forest Hills, NY.       
 LEVY - Beatrice Marilyn ''Beasley.'' Passed away October 25, 2002. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Miami Beach, FL. Loving wife of Richard to whom she was married 51 years. Adored mother of Mark and JoAnn Levy, JoAnn Levy, Daniel and Susan Levy and Allison and Dr. Jack Sacks. Cherished grand
 MURPHY-Alvina E. October 24, 2002, at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Willis A. Murphy. She was a nurse, advisor and compassionate person who cared about all living things. Her friends celebrate her long life and mourn their loss. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 MURSTEIN - Martha. Died peacefully on October 25, at her home in Miami Beach. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Leon. She personified love, honor, and dignity throughout her 95 years. She is survived by her children, Bernard and Nelly, Alvin and Aileen, Paul and Marjorie; her grandchildre
 PRESCOTT-Elizabeth Coe. 94 of Topsham, ME. Formerly of E. Islip, NY. Died Oct. 18, 2002. Loving mother of Ann E. Finlayson and Elizabeth C. Gregory; two grandsons Robert H. Gregory, Jr. and William Prescott Gregory and five great grandchildren. Donations in her memory may be made to The Coa
 RADENS-Betty Clancy. July 29, 2002. A visionary educator at the Fieldston Lower School for 33 years. Founder of Fieldston Outdoors. Survived by daughter Leish, son-in-law Bill, and granddaughter Treasa. A concert to celebrate her life will be held on November 3, at the Fieldston School Audi
 TIGER-Edith. We mourn Edith Tiger. For over a generation, Edith played a major role as Executive Director of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee in the never ending struggle to protect and extend civil liberties in the U.S. Working with our partner and ECLC's general counsel, t
 Alina Pienkowska, a shy and soft-spoken nurse whose impassioned words turned a shipyard strike in Gdansk, Poland, in 1980 into a nationwide and triumphant movement called Solidarity that ultimately helped to bring down Communism, died on Oct. 17 in Gdansk. She was 50. The cause was cancer, 
 ALEXANDER-Marion. On October 27, 2002, in her 103rd year over three centuries. Beloved wife of the late Myron, loving mother of Anne Bean, Ruth Kaiden, and Helen Seltzer. Dear grandmother of seven grandchildren and seven great - grandchildren. Funeral services Tuesday from Menorah Schoem in
 BALICK-Sylvia, Ph.D. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. On October 25. Nurturer, intellectual, bon vivant, writer, speech therapist and pivotal force in her family's life. She will live on forever in our hearts.       
 GLANTZ-Edith ''Grom.'' October 26, 2002, at age 87, surrounded by her loving children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Her memory and recipes will live forever. The Glantz, Post, Hodas, Federico and Foncello families would appreciate donations to Jansen Memorial Hospice, 69 Main St, T
 HERRMAN-Judith Macpherson. Died in her sleep on Sunday, October 27, 2002. Cherished wife of William H. Herrman. Loving mother of William and Dana Herrman II and Alexandra and David Kamin. Adoring grandmother of Henry and Charles Herrman and Grace Kamin. Sister of George Macpherson. In lieu 
 KELLER-Betty. On October 25. Devoted wife to her late husband Joseph. Remembered fondly by her extended family and friends. She was an active patron of the arts and Jewish cultural organizations. Services 2:15 PM on Tuesday at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MURPHY-Alvina E. October 24, 2002, at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Willis A. Murphy. She was a nurse, advisor and compassionate person who cared about all living things. Her friends celebrate her long life and mourn their loss. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 OPALEK-Irene Lerner Solovay. Died peacefully on October 25 at her home in Yuma, AZ, at the age of 94. Beloved mother of Norman and Mark Solovay, mother-in-law of Eleanor and Kathryn Solovay. She was the very devoted and adored grandmother of Michael Solovay, Elizabeth Solovay Goldburg, Sond
 RUDEL-Dr. Nina. Died in NYC on October 26, 2002, in her 91st year. Dearest friend and family. In the 1960s she headed the Child Health Centers in NYC. Her great interest in literature resulted in forming a book club at the Elmhurst Library which enriched the lives of many. She will be great
 ANDERSON-Barbara (nee Steglein). Age 52, inspirational teacher, F.I.T., died October 26, 2002 after a long illness. Her husband Lennart, daughter Jeanette, family, friends and colleagues celebrate her life. Friends may visit at M.J. Smith Sons Funeral Home, 248 Prospect Park West, Bklyn, 71
 BERGER-Myra L., 69. Of Scarsdale, NY, on October 27, 2002. Devoted wife of Ronald. Loving sister of Judy Bernstein. Beloved mother of Karen and her husband Ivan and Steven and his wife Nicole. Loving and devoted grandmother to Stephanie, Alyssa, Jordyn, Tyler and Alexa. Cherished sister-in-
 BERMAN - Virginia Anne. Passed away peacefully on October 26 in her 78th year. She was a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College. Beloved wife of the late Emile Zola Berman, defense attorney in the Sirhan Sirhan trial. She is survived by her daughter, Ellen Tackling, of New Canaan, CT, grandchil
 BIERNOFF-Mildred, age 91. Passed away peacefully Sunday, October 27. Loving wife of the late Meyer Biernoff. Loving mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Sister of Joseph Brown and Lillian Lublang and loving aunt. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her and loved her.       
 BOETTIGHEIMER - Ma rianne. On October 27th. Beloved and devoted wife for sixty years of Ludwig, who died on March 23, 2002. She will be greatly missed by all her relatives and friends.       
 COOPER - Sylvia. Devoted and loving daughter, sister, wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Our heartfelt thanks to Josephine, Lisette and Mary for their devotion and care. May she rest in peace. Amy and Dr. Sheldon Cooper and family. Ellen and Arthur Singer and family.       
 GUNDY-Evelyn B., 98. Died October 25, 2002 in Natick, MA. She leaves her children Elizabeth of Seal Cove, ME., and Walter of Lincoln, MA, and her grandchildren Nathaniel, Alexander and Aaron.       
 HALPERN-Rebecca. On October 5, 2002 in San Diego, CA, at the age of 93. Beloved mother of Joan Stevens and Judith Meiselman. Cherished wife of the late David Halpern. Cherished daughter of the late Reuben and Minnie Iceland. Beloved sister of Oscar and the late Ben Iceland. Beloved grandmot
 HERRMAN-Judith Macpherson. Died in her sleep on Sunday, October 27, 2002. Cherished wife of William H. Herrman. Loving mother of William and Dana Herrman II and Alexandra and David Kamin. Adoring grandmother of Henry and Charles Herrman and Grace Kamin. Sister of George Macpherson. In lieu 
 LYONS-Edith. The Board, Council and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City are deeply saddened by the death of Honorary Board member Mrs. Edith Lyons. Edith joined the PPNYC Board in the early 1960's, volunteered in our medical centers and served as the first president of the merged N
 ROSENBERG-Catherine. Beloved mother of Stuart. Cherished grandmother to Jennifer, Pamela, Peter and Jeff. Loving mother-in-law to her Barbara. Devoted sister to Gertrude Dubin and dear aunt to Sherry Patterson. We will miss her dearly.       
 RUDEL-Dr. Nina. Died in NYC on October 26, 2002, in her 91st year. Dearest friend and family. In the 1960s she headed the Child Health Centers in NYC. Her great interest in literature resulted in forming a book club at the Elmhurst Library which enriched the lives of many. She will be great
 GORMAN-Ethel. October 29, 1914. Lovingly remembered on her birthday and every day by her family. Linda, Doug, Abby & Richard       
 Edith Tiger, the director of a civil liberties organization who fought for the rights of people ranging from the victims of McCarthyism to Haitian refugees to rebellious high school students, died on Oct. 22 in Brooklyn. She was 83. She had a heart attack at a diner in Brooklyn Heig
 BIRMAN-Sandra. Of Delray Beach, Fl. Formerly of Bronx, N.Y. Devoted mother of Lisa, Michele (Keith) and Barry (Debra), grandmother of Rachel and Noah, brother of Joseph (Joan). Loving friend. Graveside service Mt. Hope Cemetery, Hastings on Hudson, 3PM today. Contributions in her memory to 
 DUBIN-Esther. On October 20th, 2002 at the age of 89. Wife of the late Murray Dubin. Remembered by her nephew Ronald Dubin, nieces, Jane Cates, Shirley Cohodas and Sandy Bock. Rest in peace, Esther. Services on Wednesday, October 30, 11:30AM at the Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.     
 LYTTLE - Hanna Lowen stein. Beloved mother, grandmother and sister, passed away on Friday, October 11, 2002 of Alzheimer's disease. She was a Speech Therapist with the Board of Education and a dynamic member of the Park Avenue Synagogue. She was President of its Sisterhood for four years an
 ROBERTS-Rhoda. On October 27, 2002 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell B. Roberts (deceased September 11, 1988). Loving mother of John J. Roberts and Jean Colonomos. Devoted grandmother of Benjamin Roberts, Sarah Nayer, and Sarah Colonomos and great-grandmother of Danielle Roberts, 
 ROBERTS-Rhoda. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Rhoda Roberts. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. 
