 Eleanor Doermann Larrabee, an architect who specialized in the construction and layout of libraries, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. She died of complications from injuries suffered when struck by a car t
 Evelyn Jablow, a widely known decorator and furniture designer, died on Sunday at her weekend home in Delhi, N.Y. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, according to her daughter, Joanne Jablow Yunich of Manhattan. Mrs. Jablow was one of the first t
 Esther G. Gottesman, whose service to the Jewish community spanned more than 60 years and who played an important role in the acquisition of the Dead Sea Scrolls for Israel, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Manhattan. Mrs. Got
 Dorothy Kingsley, a leading screenwriter in Hollywood in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula, in Monterey, Calif. She was 87 and lived in Carmel. Miss Kingsley wrote screenplays for more than 25 movies, specializing in musicals a
 Virginia A. Dwyer, a former senior vice president for finance at the AT&T Corporation and one of the first women to gain a top position at a major American company, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. Miss Dwyer, a resident of Manhattan, was 76. The cause of death wa
 Merian Lovelace Kirchner, the little girl whose pleadings for just one more bedtime story gave birth to a beloved series of children's books, died on Sept. 25 at a hospital on Staten Island. She was 66 and the daughter of Maud Hart Lovelace, the creator of the Betsy-Tacy books. Frie
 Rosemary R. Gunning, who led fights against school busing in New York City in the 1960's and went on to become one of the first female Assembly members, died on Saturday night at the home of a niece in Roslyn, N.Y. She was 92. The cause was liver cancer, said a grandniece, Patricia 
 Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft, who is credited with having saved hundreds of Jewish inmates while a prisoner at Auschwitz, died on Friday in Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. She was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her son, Menachem, said Monday that t
 Mary Jayne Gold, a Chicago heiress who used some of her fortune to help prominent Jewish or anti-Nazi artists like Chagall flee Nazi-occupied France, died on Sunday at her home near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera. She was 88. Miss Gold, who attended finishing school in Italy and j
 Jane Warner Dick, an early social welfare advocate who later served on a United Nations panel, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 91. Mrs. Dick's social work began in 1926 with Hull House, founded by Jane Addams in 1889. A friend of Ms. Addams, Mrs. Dick volun
 Lotte Goslar, a dancer and mime known for her eccentric and whimsical comedy, died on Thursday at the Willowood Nursing Home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 90 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn. A short, roly-poly woman with a round, expressive face, Miss Goslar as a performer bro
 Katherine B. Oettinger, an authority on the care and upbringing of children, who was head of the Federal agency for the care of handicapped and underprivileged children, died on Monday in Carmel, Calif. She was 94. Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the 
 Nancy Dickerson, who in the 1950's and 60's combined network television reporting with her role as a sought-after Washington partygiver and insider, died yesterday in New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old and maintained homes for many years both in Washington and New York.   
 Joanne A. Moonan, a costume jewelry designer in the 1930's, 40's, 50's and 60's, died last Monday at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, her daughter, Wendy Lyon Moonan of Manhattan, said.        
 Pilar Miro Romero, a pioneering female director of movies and television who also fostered Spain's film industry by introducing state aid for promising young filmmakers when she served in the Socialist Government of the 1980's, died at her home here on Sunday. She was 57. She collap
 Ann Devroy, the White House correspondent for The Washington Post who was known for her assertiveness and digging, died today. She was 49 and lived in Washington. The cause was cancer, the Post said. A veteran political journalist who covered four Presidents, Ms. Devroy had 
 Audra Lindley, who starred on Broadway, in films and in more than 100 live television dramas but who gained her greatest fame playing a sex-starved wife in the television series ''Three's Company'' and its spinoff, ''The Ropers,'' died on Oct. 16 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She
 Hanna M. Bercovitch, the founding editor of the Library of America, died on Monday at her son's home in Madison, Wis. She was 63. She died of lung cancer, her family said in a statement. Ms. Bercovitch joined the Library of America in 1980, shortly after the nonprofit publis
 Evelyn Slewett, a founder of the National Parkinson Foundation and supporter of numerous charitable organizations, died Oct. 14 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. She was 87 and lived in Miami. The cause was cancer, the foundation said. Mrs. Slewett, a native of New York
 Dr. Mina S. Rees, a mathematician who broke new ground for women as a university administrator and a leader in the sciences, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. She was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side. At home in abstract and applied mathematics, Dr. Re
 Marian E. Koshland, an immunologist and professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley who studied the ways antibodies fight off disease, died on Tuesday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley. She was 76 and lived in Lafayette, Calif. The caus
