 BJORLIN-Elizabeth S. (nee Falise). Of Ridgefield, CT and Bedford, NY died at the age of 41 at her home in Ridgefield, on Friday, July 28, 2000 after a courageous three and a half-year battle against cancer. After graduating with honors from Smith College and a semester at Oxford University,
 FINDER-Alfred. On July 31, 2000. beloved husband of Rosalie. Loving father of Laurie Finder, Barbara Hirschtritt and her husband Stuart. Adoring grandfather of Matthew, Zachary and Dee Dee. Loving brother of Frederick. Services will be held at the New Montefiore Cemetery, at 10:30 AM Tuesda
 FRIED-Tina (nee Gorman). On July 31, 2000, age 90. Wife of the late Henry B. Fried. Mother of Caryl and Skip Feldmann, and the late Robert Fried. Grandmother of Leslie (Jim) Cowen, Sara (Robert) Sheehan, Ahmiel (Coleen) Fried, and Zephania (Les) Eldred, great grandmother of Alex, and Madeli
 GREENBERG-Harvey. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the brother of our esteemed member Shirley Sprengers and extends to her our heartfelt condolences.       
 HITCHMAN-Grace C. Of Pine Bush, NY. Retired executive secretary for James Felt and Co., NYC, died Friday, July 28, 2000, at home. She was 95. Devoted daughter of Robert F. and Mary E. Wallace Hitchman. She was born October 9, 1904, in NYC. Survivors include her loving sister Rose F. Leonard
 KIEVES-Marion. We mourn the loss of our co-worker and dear friend. May the memory of her caring for others bring comfort to her family and friends. She will always be our very special diamond that will shine forever. We love you and miss you. Underneath It All       
 KIRSCH-Aviva (nee Isobel Leader). Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the tragic and untimely death of Aviva (Isobel Leader) Kirsch, beloved daughter of Ruby and the late Dr. Sidney Leader, our Honorary President For Life, and sister of Steven Leader. We will miss her devotion to family, her 
 LYNN-Gay (Stirling) of Newport, Rhode Island, and Scotland Cay, Abaco, Bahamas passed away Tuesday, July 25 in Boston. She was 63. Widow of William Harcourt Lynn, beloved mother of William and Margaret, grandmother of three, longtime resident of Rye, NY. An avid sailing racer, she pioneered
 MOSLOW-Rusty (Myra). Died July 30, at age 60. Adoring daughter of the late Jennie and Philip Gessman. Loving sister of Louise Lopez. Beloved wife of Morton Moslow. Devoted mother of Deborah and Philip Solomon. She died as she always was a woman of courage, strength and valor.       
 SANDS-Lucille, nee Pollane. Widow of Manny, loving mother of Patricia and Jeffrey, beloved mother-in-law of Rita, adored grandmother of Jessica & Hillary, passed quietly on July 31, 2000. Life member of Hadassah and past regional vice president. A founding member of Bellerose Jewish Center 
 SNOW-Joan Marie (nee McPadden). Joan died July 29, 2000 after a brave battle with cancer. She will always be remembered for her vibrance and her dedication to educating children. Beloved wife of the late James Gerard and loving mother of James, Martin, Mary Catherine, John, and daughter-in-
 YACHNES-Eleanor, M.D. On July 29, 2000. Beloved mother of Candy Systra, Laura Systra and Andrew Yachnes. Loving mother-in-law to Michael, grandmother to Daniel and Alexander, aunt to Matt, Lucy and Emily Gertz, Paul and Linda Yachnes. Psychoanalyst and vigorous lover of life. She will be mi
 YEZIL-Antonine (Krajcunus), 79. Beloved mother of Michael, and grandmother of Serena, died July 30, 2000. She will be deeply missed by all who loved her. Private funeral services will be held at Our Lady of Hope Church, in Queens, on August 1, 2000.       
 Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24. She was 96. Mrs. Holt first attracted national att
 DAVIS-Beatrice, 96, devoted wife of the late Sam, beloved mother of Malcolm and Ilene, George, Theodore and Cindee, adored grandmother & loving greatgrandmother, sister of Edith Epstein. Bea was a wonderful and giving ing mother and person. She was full of fun, an active Red Cross volunteer
 du MOULIN-Eleanor C. (nee Lewis). On August 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward du Moulin of 58 years. Loving mother of Cathy & Jerome Morea, Ann and Richard du Moulin. Adoring grandmother of Christopher, Douglas and Carrie Morea, Lora Ann, Edward, Matthew and Mark du Moulin. Devoted sister of 
 FRIED-Tina (nee Gorman). On July 31, 2000, age 90. Wife of the late Henry B. Fried. Mother of Caryl and Skip Feldmann, and the late Robert Fried. Grandmother of Leslie (Jim) Cowen, Sara (Robert) Sheehan, Ahmiel (Coleen) Fried, and Zephania (Les) Eldred, great grandmother of Alex, and Madeli
 GORDON-Flora. On July 31, 2000. Wife of the late Benjamin Gordon, she will be remembered by her children, Ruth Panken & Stephen; grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and friends who valued her gentleness, vitality, and commitment to a more just world.       
 HAAS-Anita. Of NYC, after a courageous struggle with cancer. Beloved daughter of Ilse Cierer Haas and the late Erich. Business manager at Office of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals with Disabilities (VESID). Memorial service at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave
 HARRIS-George. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of George Harris, beloved father of Joan Cooper. We extend our deepest condolences to Joan and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President HARRIS-Geor
 KIRSCH-Aviva (nee Isobel Leader). On July 30th, 2000. Loving mother of Beth, Gabrielle and her husband Jim. Beloved daughter of Ruby and the late Sidney Leader. Dear sister of Steven and Barbara Leader. Devoted aunt of Jaclyn and Allison. Service Thursday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76t
 LOCKWOOD-Vera. The producers, cast and company of ''Over The River And Through The Woods'' mourn the passing of their friend and colleague, Vera Lockwood. She will be fondly remembered for her glowing portrayal of Aida Gianelli.       
 ROCKEFELLER-Paula Watjen. 94, died peacefully in her sleep on August 1, 2000 at her home in Greenwich, Connecticut. She was the daughter of the late A. Wilhelm and Katie F. Watjen of Bremen, Germany and New York. Wife of the late John Sterling Rockefeller and sister of the late Eduard H. Wa
 SEGLIN-Sherlee S., 86. Died July 31, 2000 in Harrisburg, PA. A volunteer for the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged, Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Donna L. Popky of Harrisburg; and sisters Ruth Hyman of Manhattan and Janet Bank of Miami & a grandson. Graveside services will b
 ZINSER-Barbara L. (Mrs. Hans). The Horticultural Society of New York has been honored & graced to have had Barbara as a member of the Board of Directors, serving in numerous capacities including Secretary, Treasurer, and on the executive, development and finance committees. She served on ou
 ADASKO-Mary Hardy on July 29. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Isaac. Loving mother of Herbert Hardy Adasko and the late Laura Adasko Lenzner. Dear mother-inlaw of Shelly Adasko and Allan Lenzner. Cherished grandmother of Margaret, Michael, Benjamin, Sam and David. Funeral Monday, 10 AM fro
 BALDINGER-Edith Marks. In her 101yr she died peacefully at home. Wife of the late Carl Marks and the late Irving Baldinger; Cherished Mother of Edwin and Nancy Marks, Marjorie Boas Levins and Jack Levins and the late Robert S. Boas; Loving Grandmother of Richard Boas, Susan and Mark Claster
 DAVIS-Beatrice, 96, devoted wife of the late Sam, beloved mother of Malcolm and Ilene, George, Theodore and Cindee, adored grandmother & loving greatgrandmother, sister of Edith Epstein. Bea was a wonderful and giving mother and person. She was full of fun, an active Red Cross volunteer dur
 du MOULIN-Eleanor C. (nee Lewis). On August 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward du Moulin of 58 years. Loving mother of Cathy & Jerome Morea, Ann and Richard du Moulin. Adoring grandmother of Christopher, Douglas and Carrie Morea, Lora Ann, Edward, Matthew and Mark du Moulin. Devoted sister of 
 FORREST-Blanche. Loving wife of over 40 years to Irving. Wonderful mother, beloved grandmother and devoted school worker for over 30 years. Will be lovingly missed by her children Ken and Ellen, Neil and Alisa and her grandchildren, Kim, Craig, Andrew, Jenny and Matt. Services on Friday, at
 GETZOFF-Seymour. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Seymour Getzoff, beloved father of Susan Kouffman. We extend our deepest condolences to Susan and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 HEIDENBERG-Sylvia. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Sylvia Heidenberg, and esteemed member and extend to her family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Saul Friedland, Secretary       
 KIRSCH-Aviva (nee Isobel Leader). On July 30th, 2000. Loving mother of Beth, Gabrielle and her husband Jim. Beloved daughter of Ruby and the late Sidney Leader. Dear sister of Steven and Barbara Leader. Devoted aunt of Jaclyn and Allison. Service Thursday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76t
 REUBEN-Gladys H. of Cambridge, Ma. on July 31, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Allan H. Reuben Esquire of Philadelphia. Devoted mother of John D. Reuben & his wife, Lena, Patricia Reuben Abreu and her husband Aldo and Catherine E. Reuben Esquire and her significant other Scott Glanzman. Lovi
 ROBBINS-Elaine. Beloved wife of Morris. Cherished mother of Gale Narva (Ken) and Debra Flatow (Paul). Devoted sister of Marty Farber (Neila) and Toby Monfred. Adored grandmother of Sylvie, Max, Carly, Jennifer and Rachel. Loving aunt to her nieces and nephews. Devoted friend to many. Tender
 ROCKEFELLER-Paula Watjen. 94, died peacefully in her sleep on August 1, 2000 at her home in Greenwich, Connecticut. She was the daughter of the late A. Wilhelm and Katie F. Watjen of Bremen, Germany and New York. Wife of the late John Sterling Rockefeller and sister of the late Eduard H. Wa
 SHEMLER-Anne F. On August 2. At the age of 90. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Howard and Linda Beth. Motherin-law of Christl and Ken. Devoted grandmother of Briana, Alex, David and Stephen. She was a world class bridge player with a life masters ranking. Service Friday, 1
 SMITH-Margaret V. On July 30, 2000, aged 87, in Hoffman Estates, IL. Lived in New York about 1938-1970 (principally Sea Cliff); then in Arlington, Texas. An accomplished artist. Survived by her daughter Margo L. Smith, son-inlaw Terrence B. Kersjes, and others. Interment: Mt. Emblem Cemeter
 SULLIVAN-Anne (nee Williams), 74. Died Monday, July 31, 2000. A native of Orange, New Jersey. Attended Milburn High School and Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana. She was a social worker in Newark, New Jersey, drove a school bus for handicapped children, and was a long time board member o
 ZINSSER-Barbara L. (Mrs. Hans). The Trustees of Robert College of Istanbul honor the life of their friend and colleague, Barbara Zinsser, and express their sadness at her death. As an active member of the Board for 45 years her insightful mind and her willingness to approach all problems in
 Constance Stuart Larrabee, a photographer who recorded the vanishing tribes of southern Africa, the World War II battlefields of Europe and her life on Maryland's tranquil Eastern Shore, died on July 27 at her home in Chestertown, Md. She was 85. Known as Constance Stuart earlier in
 Helene Ritzerfeld, an internationally known executive of a major German publishing house, Suhrkamp Verlag, died on July 22 at her office desk in Frankfurt. She was 86 and lived in Frankfurt. The cause was a heart attack, said a colleague, Dr. Petra Christina Hardt. At her de
 BALDINGER-Edith Marks. In her 101yr she died peacefully at home. Wife of the late Carl Marks and the late Irving Baldinger; Cherished Mother of Edwin and Nancy Marks, Marjorie Boas Levins and Jack Levins and the late Robert S. Boas; Loving Grandmother of Richard Boas, Susan and Mark Claster
 Helen Quinn, who for more than 30 years presided firmly over the Metropolitan Opera patrons who lined up every Saturday morning to buy standing-room tickets for the next  week's performances, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was food poisoning, said 
 ERDMAN-Jane Pierson. On August 4, 2000 at her home. Mrs. Erdman was the wife of the late William H. Loving mother of Joy Amy Pierson and Brad & Tammy Felenstein. Devoted grandmother of Grant and Laura Felenstein. She was cherished and will be missed. A memorial service will be held on Sunda
 NEWELL-Marla. On August 4, 2000. The Conservative Synagogue of Fifth Avenue mourns the untimely passing of its First Vice President, former President, and beloved friend. Our heartfelt condolences to husband Roger, and son and daughter Paul and Sonya. We will continue to be inspired by the 
 SHERMAN-Irma. Passed away peacefully at home on August 2, 2000. She had a long and wonderful life with her family and friends. Beloved wife for forty-seven years of Julius H. Sherman; loving mother of Valerie, Amy, James and Cornelia; mother-in-law of Richard, John & Robert; devoted grandmo
 SMITHERS-Eleanor Vey Thibaut, 90. Of Hot Springs, Va. Died Tuesday, August 1 at her residence. She was born October 25, 1909, Brooklyn, N.Y., the daughter of Richard E. and Helen Cranford Thibaut. She was preceded in death by her husband Charles Francis Smithers. She is survived by a daught
 Miki Denhof, one of the first women to be the art director of a magazine, and a noted mentor of fashion photographers, died on Wednesday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 88. In 1945, when Ms. Denhof joined Conde Nast, its fashion and lifestyle magazines were widely influent
 ANDORS-Ellen Bess. Died after a long, brave home-based battle with cancer at Cabrini Hospice Unit on Wednesday, August 2. She was 54. Ellen was a dedicated teacher, a brilliant computer programmer, a Ph.D anthropologist, a fabulous cook, an avid gardener, a sometime piano player, a devoted 
 BIAYS-Virginia Langshaw, age 86, of Delray Beach, Florida, died at her Abbey Delray South residence on July 31, 2000. Before moving to Delray Beach in 1988, Virginia and her family lived in Manhasset (Long Island), New York City, and Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. Known to friends and family a
 CONNOLLY-Alice Joiner. Beloved teacher and matriarch of three generations, died of natural causes in her home on City Island at the age of 93 on July 23, 2000. In 1931 she married Clement Connolly (d. 1990), her husband of 59 years, and is survived by three children, Dr. C. Stephen Connolly
 DENHOF-Miki. On August 2, 2000. Of East Hampton and New York City. Retired Art Director of Conde Nast. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday, August 8, 7-9 PM, with services Wednesday, 11:30 AM. Interment to follow at Westchester Hills Cemetery, 
 GRAF-Shirley, A life-long New Yorker of 82 years and integral part of the city's entertainment industry, news industry, and city government died Wednesday. Before retiring in 1983 she served the City of New York as an exective in the office of budget, spanning the administrations of Lindsay
 KESTEN-Michele. On August 1, 2000. Loving mother of Frederika and Christina, dear sister of Annie and Catherine Pujade, adoring grandmother of Marlowe. She will be profoundly missed by her extended family and friends.       
 NEWELL-Marla. Beloved wife of Roger, mother of Sonya and Paul, and friend to many died August 4, 2000. Raised on the Grand Concourse and later residing in Greenwich Village, she was a devoted and esteemed member of the Board of Trustees and past President of the Conservative Synagogue of Fi
 RESNICK-Muriel. On July 26, 2000, having recently celebrated her 80th birthday surrounded by her family. Totally devoted to her husband of 60 years, Spike (Dr. Herman) and her daughter, Amy. She was a wonderful sister, aunt, grandmother, great-grandmother and friend to many. She kept us lau
 TWETI-Harriette S. Died suddenly on August 2, 2000 in Teaneck, New Jersey of a heart attack. Beloved mother of Mira, Nathan and Caleb; beloved wife of the late Chaim Tweti; beloved daughter of the late Bertha Griffel. Her free spirit, love of life, the arts and her commitment to matchmaking
 ZINSSER-Barbara L. On August 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Hans H. Zinsser; mother of Leslie Armstrong, Judith P. Zinsser and Katherine J. Zinsser; grandmorther of Vanessa L. Cortesi, Sarah K. Lippmann, Sinclair S. Smith and Helen E. Priester. She will be very much missed by us all.    
 DENHOF-Miki. On August 2, 2000. Of East Hampton and New York City. Retired Art Director of Conde Nast. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday, August 8, 7-9 PM, with services Wednesday, 11:30 AM. Interment to follow at Westchester Hills Cemetery, 
 FISHMAN-Minna (Shapiro). On August 4 at her home after a nine year battle. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Fishman; mother of Larry; grandmother of Kate and Daniel; great-grandmother of Kyle and Mark. Staff member of Hadassah until retirement. Service at Beth David Cemetery, Monday, August 
 FREIFELD-Jean Whitlock. Beloved wife of Charles. Passed away July 31; in her 87th year. Laid to rest.       
 DODGE-Doris, 76, died of heart failure on August 1, 2000 while on holiday at Squam Lake, New Hampshire. Her husband, David, four children and four grandchildren and her many close friends deeply mourn her death of a great lovely lady. Memorial service to be announced.       
 FORREST-Rochelle. Age 80. Passed away suddenly on August 3rd in Deerfield Beach, Florida (formerly of White Plains). She was the beloved wife of the late and cherished Norman; devoted mother of Robert and Juliet and dear sister of Muriel. A New York memorial service is planned some time in 
 FRIEDMAN-Sara Zox (Sally), 59. Of NY and Sagaponack. Passed away at home after a courageous battle with cancer. A wonderful and giving friend to all who knew her, she had three beautiful daughters: Katherine, Elizabeth and Claudia and a devoted husband of 35 years, Jerry. She was the adorin
 HERTZ-Thelma. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Elinor Ceresney and Martin Hertz, Mother-in-law of Ian Ceresney and Ellen Hertz. Grandmother of Brian and Allison and Adam and Tracey Hertz, Dr. Cynthia and Jonathan Cohen, Andrew and Rachel and Margo Ceresney. Great-grandmothe
 Van BIEMA-Mary (nee Epstein). Beloved wife of Gerhard, mother of David and Michael and grandmother of Joshua and Alex. She received an AB from Vassar College and MLS from Columbia University in Library Science, and was a Librarian at the Mannes College of Music for 15 years. She was an acti
 Ethel Brown Fitzgerald, a former New York City teacher and school administrator, lawyer and musician, died July 19 at a hospital in upstate Amsterdam. She was 68 and lived in Fonda, N.Y., and Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Fitzgerald spent 16 often con
 Mary MacLeod Trump, a philanthropist who supported charities near her home in Jamaica, Queens, and elsewhere, died on Monday at 88 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, her family said. Mrs. Trump was born Mary MacLeod on the Isle of Lewis in Scotland on May 10, 1912. On a visit to 
 Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce. She was 85. ''Armed only with her fait
 ERICKSON-Maureen Muller. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, NY. died at her residence, on August 8, 2000. She was a partner in Muller Assoc. a real estate development and management Co. in Croton. She was a graduate of Marymount College in 1960. She is survived by her mother Eileen Muller and 
 FRIEDMAN-Sara. We will miss our loving sister and aunt, Sally. We celebrate her love of life and the strength and courage with which she lived it. Ellen and Roy Wedeles, Thomas and John Friedman-Sara Zox. Be at peace beloved sister and cherished aunt. We loved you very much. Nancy, 
 JACOBS-Eloise. Passed away on August 8th, 2000 at the age of 96, after a long illness. Beloved widow of Milton Jacobs. Best friend of the late Hazel Hartman. Loving aunt, great aunt and cousin. She lives on in our hearts and through the good deeds she accomplished in life. May she rest in p
 LACKAMP-Judith A. died peacefully on August 4, 2000 in her home. A native of Cleveland, OH, Judy lived in NYC for nearly 40 years. Judy is survived by her brother William A. Lackamp, niece Lori Shoemake and husband James, grandnieces Devon and Emily. She touched our lives in many wonderful 
 LOCKWOOD - Henrietta Ellery Sedgwick from Bedford, New York, died August 4, 2000 in her 94th year. She was an honorable member of the New York Botanical Garden, vice-president of the Garden Conservancy and former vice-president of the New York Horticultural Society. She was also a founding 
 ORENSTEIN-Roslyn. On August 7, 2000, at age 67. Beloved wife of Israel Orenstein, devoted mother to Dr. Hadassah and Shira, and mother-in-law to Dr. Eddy Barth, & Daniel Kahn, loving grandmother to Amitai, Yoav, Talya, Yael, Naomi, Kayla, Zoe, Aliza, and Lielle. Dear sister of Abraham Shapi
 TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Tru
 CLARK-Sylvia K. Of Hillsdale, New Jersey, on August 8, 2000. Survived by her children Merri & husband Carlos, Suzanne, Loren, and stepdaughter Kay. A woman of intelligence and determination who lived her life surrounded by family and friends, and is now reunited with beloved first-born son 
 GLASS-Leslie. Leslie Glass, who was a popular Penthouse Pet, lost her valiant struggle against cancer on August 5, 2000. Her beauty left us breathless and her dedication to helping abused and homeless animals enriched us all. Bob Guccione, the publisher of Penthouse Magazine, and the entire
 GLEICHER-Beatrice. Sisterhood of Park East Synagogue expresses heartfelt condolences to Evelyn Mintz, our dedicated Vice President, on the loss of her beloved mother, to whom Evelyn's devotion was exemplary. May she be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Maguy Naparstek, Pre
 MACE-Virginia (nee Mendes). A long-time resident of Westchester Co, N.Y. passed away July 26, 2000 in Sun City Center, FL. She was born in Saint Louis, MO. December 13, 1917. She was a graduate of Trinity College and served with the Red Cross during WWII. She is survived by daughter Michell
 TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Tru
 EISENSTADT-Sidonie Judith. Age 94, died on August 8, 2000, at the home in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, that she shared with her nephew Steven and his family for the past year. A graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work, she served the NYC Department of Social Services at the Lenox Hill Ne
 FERRE-Sister M. Isolina. The entire community of Bank Street College of Education mourns the loss of Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a former trustee and friend of the College, whose inspiring leadership and devotion to the disenfranchised earned her one of the United States' highest honors, the M
 FIRMUNN-Sadie. On August 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Edward; loving mother of Anita Harris and mother-in-law of Douglas Harris. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Brad (Sandy). Services private. She will forever be in our hearts.       
 HARRIS-Rina. On August 9, 2000. Beloved wife of I. Alan. Loving mother of Lorraine Arnfeld and Deborah Schluger and stepmother of Evan A. & Jonathan N. Harris. Adored grandmother of Nina and Aaron Arnfeld, Zachary Schluger, Jessica and Lindsay Harris. Devoted to all, and we will all miss he
 LOCKWOOD - Henrietta Ellery Sedgwick. Her commitment to The Horticultural Society of New York in general and her support of our library in particular, spanned many decades. To say that Netta will be missed falls too far short of what we feel institutionally and personally. She was imbedded 
 SHAKARCHI-Ahuva. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Ariella Schiller upon the loss of her mother, Mrs. Ahuva Shakarchi. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, 
 TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Tru
 LICHTENDORF-Susan Siegel. A year has passed, but the memory of her unforgettable spirit lives on. With boundless love, Arthur and Victoria       
 Patricia Moyes, the British mystery writer who created Detective Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and his ''merry and plump and comforting'' wife, Emmy, died on Aug. 2 at her home in Virgin Gorda, in the British Virgin Islands. She was 77. Ms. Moyes was known for her cozy, highly c
 BASTABLE-Elizabeth ''Betty'' (nee Brown). 86 yrs old, died August 10, 2000, at Ft. Lauderdale, previously of Lakewood, NJ, and Flushing, NY. Mother was a graduate of Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart and being a mother was her vocation. She had been a devoted member of the 3rd Orde
 CLARK-Sylvia K. Congregation Ezrath Israel, the Actor's Temple mourns the loss of a very dear friend and congregant of many years. We express our condolences to her loving family. Robert Goldman, President Noach Valley, Rabbi       
 FONDILLER-Elizabeth. 6/29/26-8/ 11/00. Her words, her deeds and her choice of profession reflected her lifelong dedication to helping others achieve their goals and pursue their dreams. She began her career as an artist and art teacher. Her thirst for knowledge led her on to degrees in occu
 LEAVITT-Edith S. ''Taffy.'' On August 9, 2000. Cherished wife of the Honorable Peter M. Leavitt. Beloved mother of Karen & Amy. Sister of Susan Mirsky and Jane Brown. Treasured niece of Marjorie Fine. Loving aunt and friend to all. Editor and Occupational Therapist. She will be profoundly m
 PARKER-Elizabeth I. (Liz). Suddenly on August 8, 2000 in the city of New York, Liz crossed over to eternity. She leaves to mourn her untimely passing her 5 children: Scott Harrison, Denise Davis, Lisa Parker, Terry Parker and Sharon Bennett. Also to mourn her passing are 9 grandchildren. Se
 TRUMP-Mary. The Board of Directors of The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York notes with great saddness the passing of Mary Trump, mother of Board of Governors Members Donald J. Trump and Robert Trump. Mary was a gracious and charming lady who as a caring philanthropist impro
 WARMBRUNN-Olga C. Died at home on August 11, 2000 at age 87. Wife of the late Hans Warmbrunn. Mother of Illia Thompson, Eva Herndon and Arlene Saxonhouse. Grandmother of Hamid and Malina Bean, Lance Thompson, Keith and Robert Herndon, Lilly Saxonhouse Krenn, Noam and Elena Saxonhouse. Ten g
 Angele Albrecht, a widely known ballerina who won acclaim with Maurice Bejart's Brussels-based ballet company, died on Aug. 1 in a hospital in Munich. She was 57 and had lived in Munich since 1986. Officials there declined to disclose the cause of her death, The Associated Press rep
 Brenda Reilly, a teacher, sports administrator and three-sport coach in a career of almost three decades at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, died of cancer at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Aug. 5. She was 62. Reilly first gained a degree of prominence as a mem
 Loretta Young, the Academy Award-winning actress whose high cheekbones, pale skin and luminous eyes made her a reigning Hollywood beauty of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif. Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress f
 BANDLER-Ruth L. Passed away in her 98th year on August 9, 2000. She was the devoted wife of the late David Bandler. Beloved mother of Susan Stern (Richard) and James Greenwald (Marilee). Loving step-mother of Ellen Fertig and David Bandler, Jr. Dear sister of Robert Leberman (Barbara). Gran
 BERGER-Wendy. Taken from us too soon. Our hearts go out to her beloved husband, Ross; sister and brother, Jennifer and Kenny; stepmother, Chris; and mother Ida. Wendy was an extraordinary force of nature. Family, friends, patients colleagues-she touched us all. Services Monday, 1:15 PM at R
 BLIT-Helen Zinaida. Died on August 9, 2000, at age 84. A beautiful, intelligent and extremely caring woman, she touched the hearts of all who knew her. We will always remember her with love. Barbara, her daughter Zachary, her grandson       
 CHAMBERLAIN-Dorothy E. July 10, 1906-August 7, 2000. Life-long Columbia University law librarian. Agnes Scott AB '27, Columbia MLS '28. Past secretary Women's Faculty Club, ALA, AALL. Theatre, art, opera, symphony and travel devotee. Survived by her sister Margaret C. Gere, nieces and nephe
 FONDILLER-Elizabeth. 6/29/26-8/ 11/00. Her words, her deeds and her choice of profession reflected her lifelong dedication to helping others achieve their goals and pursue their dreams. She began her career as an artist and art teacher. Her thirst for knowledge led her on to degrees in occu
 HETSKO-Josephine Stein. 89. Died Tuesday, August 8, in Allendale, NJ. Mrs. Hetsko, a native of Scranton, PA, resided in Ridgewood, NJ for over 40 years with her husband of 64 years, the late Cyril F. Hetsko. Mrs. Hetsko attended the Universities of Pennsylvania and Michigan, and graduated s
 HISER-Elizabeth. The staff of Miavita mourn the tragic loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague Betsy Hiser. Our hearts go out to her children, Jessica, Will and Peter, and to her family who have lost a treasure and shining light. Betsy walked tall among us. She was a leader and the embod
 KATZ-Esther (nee Gottesman). Wife of the late and beloved Harry Katz, died peacefully in Boca Raton, Florida, August 10, 2000. A woman of remarkable strength and intelligence. She was the true embodiment of family values. Her love and caring presence will be missed greatly by all who knew h
 LACHTERMAN - Yetta Bessie. Born 1909. Died August 10, 2000, in Chicago, IL. Wife of the late Max. Mother of Paul (and Alita) of Park Ridge, IL, William (and Teddy) of Tulsa, OK. Sister of late Ida Landau and late Anna Brenner. Also survived by Selma and Saul Landsberg, of Tucson, AZ, and Da
 LEAVITT-Edith S. ''Taffy.'' On August 9, 2000. Cherished wife of the Honorable Peter M. Leavitt. Beloved mother of Karen & Amy. Sister of Susan Mirsky and Jane Brown. Treasured niece of Marjorie Fine. Loving aunt and friend to all. Editor and Occupational Therapist. She will be profoundly m
 LINDERMAN-Myra Z., 61, formerly of Edison, NJ, resident of North Miami Beach, FL, passed away on August 7th, 2000. Her strength, courage and dignity are to be admired by all who knew and loved her. Myra's spirit will live in our hearts and minds forever. She was the beloved wife of the late
 ZUCKERBERG-Lillian Chestney. Passed away on August 6, 2000. Born on September 22, 1913, Lillian studied art on scholarship at Pratt Institute in the 1930s and later at the Art Students League in New York City. It was at Pratt that she met and later married Stanley Maxwell Zuckerberg on June
 BANDLER-Ruth L. Passed away in her 98th year on August 9, 2000. She was the devoted wife of the late David Bandler. Beloved mother of Susan Stern (Richard) and James Greenwald (Marilee). Loving step-mother of Ellen Fertig and David Bandler, Jr. Dear sister of Robert Leberman (Barbara). Gran
 GOLDBERG-Leah (Lotte). In her 95th year, after a life of love and devotion to her family. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Devoted mother of Sarah, Rachel and Leo (Rochelle). Adored grandmother and great-grandmother. Cherished aunt and sister. You have given your family strength, dignity a
 KATZ-Esther (nee Gottesman). Wife of the late and beloved Harry Katz, died peacefully in Boca Raton, Florida, August 10, 2000. A woman of remarkable strength and intelligence. She was the true embodiment of family values. Her love and caring presence will be missed greatly by all who knew h
 KIVY-Isabel. Died peacefully in her sleep at home on Saturday, August 12, 2000, at the age of 100. Wife of the late Julius Kivy. Mother of Dr. Peter Kivy and Dr. Elaine Genkins. Grandmother of Karen Fairbank, Esq, Steven Genkins, MD, and Amy Genkins, Esq. Great-grandmother of David and Sara
 LOCKWOOD - Henrietta. The Board, Staff, and Friends of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of their colleague Netta Lockwood. A member of the Board through five decades and devoted to the Native Plant Garden, Netta was a masterful gardener, passionate conservationi
 SCOTCH-Frances (Gauchman). 82, of Long Meadow, MA; formerly of Brookline, died Saturday. Her husband Theodore died in May. She was the mother of Dr. David S. Scotch of Westport, CT, and Elaine Fialky of Long Meadow, MA; mother-in-law of Barbara Scotch and Gary Fialky; sister of Max Gauchman
 TRAYSTMAN-Frieda. Of NYC, NY. Died August 13, 2000. Retired from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCoy. Survived by loving nieces Kathy Traystman and Martha Welch, and sister-in-law Helen Traystman. Private arrangements by family. Donations in her memory to The Ivan L. Rubin Foundation, Inc, 160 Wes
 VREELAND-Nancy Stolkin. 57, of Los Angeles, CA, on August 4, 2000. Survived by husband Thomas Reed Vreeland, mother Ruth March, sister Kathy Meyers and brother John Stolkin. Memorial services will be held at 3 PM, on Sunday, August 20, at the Los Angeles Central Library. Contributions in he
 WILSHUSEN-Agnes Russ. She was 89. Died August 12, 2000, in Troy, NY. Widow of William Wilshusen; sister of Helen Blaschke, Lillian Johnson Pamentel, and Louis Russ; sister-in-law of Otto Blaschke, Anne Russ, John Blaschke, Joyce Diwan, Betty McDonald, John Johnson; and grandnieces and nephe
 Frieda Mae Hardin, who joined the Navy during World War I, when women were still denied the right to vote, and at a widely noted ceremony  79 years later symbolized the achievements of all the women in the armed forces, died last Wednesday in Livermore, Calif. She was 103. Wearing a
 ELKIN-Bernice D. On August 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David Elkin. Loving mother of Faith Bobrow and Eileen Gilbert & their husbands, Philip and Jerry. Adored grandmother of Emily, Amanda, Diane, Rachael & David. Loving sister-in-law of Ruth Muss. Bernice Elkin was an extraordinary 
 HARRIOTT-Sister Marian Francis. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity for 50 years, died on August 14, 2000, at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. An educator for many years, Sister taught for 23 years in the parochial school system and for 20 years in the Yonkers Public School System. Her
 HEIDENBERG - Sylvia. Temple Emanu-El of Englewood, New Jersey extends its deepest sympathy to the families of Robert and Susan Heidenberg, Susan Laden, Richard Heidenberg and Laurence Lazar. She was an esteemed figure in our congregation and in the Jewish and civic communities. May her fami
 O'REILLY-Sister Mary Joseph, O. Carm. On August 13, 2000 in her 89th year. Native of Louisburg, County Mayo, Ireland. Over 50 years of devoted service with The Carmelite Sisters For The Aged And Infirm. Survived by brother, Patrick, in England, nephews, Rev. John Collins, CSP, James Collins
 TRAYSTMAN-Frieda. Of NYC, NY. Died August 13, 2000. Retired from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCoy. Survived by loving nieces Kathy Traystman and Martha Welch, and sister-in-law Helen Traystman. Private arrangements by family. Donations in her memory to The Ivan L. Rubin Foundation, Inc, 160 Wes
 WALDMAN-Charlotte. Died on August 13, 2000 in Rancho Mirage, California at age 90. She is survived by her son, David, her daughter-in-law Diane and her grandsons, Alan and Robbie. Funeral services to be held at Knollwood Park Cemetery. Ridgewood, NY, August 15, 2000 2 PM.       
 WILSHUSEN-Agnes Russ. She was 89. Died August 12, 2000, in Troy, NY. Widow of William Wilshusen; sister of Helen Blaschke, Lillian Johnson Pamentel, and Louis Russ; sister-in-law of Otto Blaschke, Anne Russ, John Johnson, Frank Pamentel; survived by nieces & nephew Lillian Blashke, Joyce Di
 Virginia Admiral, an American painter and writer who studied with Hans Hofmann, died on July 27. She was 85 and lived in New York City. Ms. Admiral was born in Oregon and studied at the Art Institute of Chicago. While working on the Federal Arts Project in Oakland, Calif., in 1938, 
 ARONSON-Eva Beer. On August 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Herbert, and adoring mother and motherin-law of Richard, Emary, and Lisa. Born in Vienna, she was a true New Yorker, devoted to students and colleagues at Interboro Institute. Services at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, New Yor
 EISNER-Janette 88, of Hallandale, FL passed away August 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Survived by her loving children: David (Dorothy) Eisner, & Judith Schuldenfrei. Grandchildren: Jonathan, Suzanne (Craig), & Michael. Greatgrandchildren: Joshua & Ilana. Services in FL. The fam
 ELKIN-Bernice D. On August 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David Elkin. Loving mother of Faith Bobrow and Eileen Gilbert & their husbands, Philip and Jerry. Adored grandmother of Emily, Amanda, Diane, Rachel & David. Loving sister-in-law of Ruth Muss. Bernice Elkin was an extraordinary w
 HARRIOTT - Marian Francis (Fran). Loving daughter of Jeannette (nee Scherf) and Albert, and beloved member of the Sisters of Charity for 50 years, died on August 14, 2000, at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. An educator for many years, Francis taught for 23 years in the parochial school sys
 KOTT-Lidia (nee Steinhaus). Died on August 14, 2000 in Santa Monica, CA at the age of 81. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Her ashes will be scattered over the Pacific Ocean in accordance with her wishes. She has left us in deep sorrow. Jan, Teresa, Michael, Tara, Mathew, Lidia Jean, S
 LeBRECHT-Sheila Brown. Of Easthampton, New York, on Saturday, August 12th, 2000, after a short illness. At her request there will be no memorial service. Contributions in her memory may be made to the charity of your choice.       
 OKRENT-Odette. The National Board of Directors and the Membership of American Red Magen David for Israel record with profound sorrow the passing of Odette Okrent, beloved mother of Jacqueline Goldman, longtime, dedicated member of the Board. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Jacqueline, N
 TRAYSTMAN-Frieda. Of NYC, NY. Died August 13, 2000. Retired from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCoy. Survived by loving nieces Kathy Traystman and Martha Welch, and sister-in-law Helen Traystman. Private arrangements by family. Donations in her memory to The Ivan L. Rubin Foundation, Inc, 160 Wes
 Mary K. Wells, who acted in films, theater, television and radio and was part of a writing team that won two daytime Emmy Awards, died on Monday. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was an infection of the colon, said her son, Cameron Richardson. Miss Wells, whose c
 ALPERT-Ruth. We extend our sincerest condolences to Gail Kramer, on the passing of her beloved mother. A true ''Woman of Valor'', Ruth embodied the qualities of elegance, warmth and kindness. As Silver Founders of the Medical Center, Gail and Seymour Kramer, have followed in her footsteps i
 ARONSON-Eva Beer. On August 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Herbert, and adoring mother and motherin-law of Richard, Emary, and Lisa. Born in Vienna, she was a true New Yorker, devoted to students and colleagues at Interboro Institute. Services at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, New Yor
 HARRIOTT - Marian Francis (Fran). Loving daughter of Jeannette (nee Scherf) and Albert, and beloved member of the Sisters of Charity for 50 years, died on August 14, 2000, at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. An educator for many years, Francis taught for 23 years in the parochial school sys
 LUNTEY-Beverly Weber. Died August 14, 2000. She was born and grew up in Spokane, Washington. She graduated from the University of Idaho with a degree in Journalism and worked as a reporter for the Spokane Chronicle. She also took graduate work at Northwestern University and wrote a weekly c
 REINHARD-Lucienne. Consist International would like to extend its heartfelt condolences to Albert and Mimi Reinhard and Shasa Weitman on the passing of their beloved daughter and sister Lucienne. Lucy, as affectionately known, was an exemplar of courage, dignity, and grace. Her will to live
 SCHWARTZ-Ruth. In her 87th year. Beloved wife of Barnet for over 66 years. Adored sister of Helen Morganstein. Survived by her loving children, Arthur (Judy) and Robert (Renee) of NYC, and grandchildren, Dina and Michael Daniels, Debra and Evan Avidane and David Schwartz, and greatgrandchil
 WISOFF-Esther. In her 95th year on August 16, 2000. Wife of the late Percy Wisoff, a retired teacher who educated students at PS #       
 ALPERT-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Hyman, mother of Gail and Seymour Kramer, Lynn and Wolf Scheck, and Zane and Malkie Alpert. Loving grandmother of 9 and great-grandmother of 22. Loved and cherished by her entire family and friends. Shiva observed until Tuesday morning.       
 BAUM-Birgitta Greiffe. Died suddenly after a short illness on August 16, 2000. Her memory will live forever in the hearts and minds of those she reached out to and loved. Her devoted husband, Robert cherishes each moment of their 44 years of marriage and their devoted son, Eric, who loves h
 CHEN-Yuna Y.T., 87. Granddaughter of Tan Chun-Lin, Governor General of Guang Dong and Guang Xi Provinces, daughter of Tan Yen-Kai, Chairman and First Prime Minister of Nationalist China, died peacefully while visiting her son, Harold Chen in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Chen, a graduate of Ne
 HIGGINS-Jeanette Saville, 86. Passed away on August 11, 2000 in Laguna Hills, CA. She worked for Belk Stores as an executive secretary. She is survived by her nephew Duane Garrett, his wife Melinda and daughters Katrina and Myra, stepchildren: Roger Higgins, Carol (Michael) Tampa, Donna (Jo
 KNEPFER-Hattie. 91 of Yonkers, NY. Passed away August 16, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David. Survived by her loving children Arnold, Paul and Carolyn Knepfer. Devoted grandchildren Rachel, Tobey, Alan and Michael. Services at LeVaya-Garlick Funeral Home, 1091 Yonkers Avenue, Yonkers, NY 
 LIKELY-Audrey. Beloved mother of Roger Shelley (Nancy) and loving and dear friend of Lawrence Bickford. A memorial service will be scheduled shortly. Donations in her memory to Cabrini Hospice, 227 East 19 St, NY, NY 10003. LIKELY-Audrey. The Partners of The Shelley Group mourn the 
 REINHARD-Lucienne. Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah records with profound sorrow the passing of Lucy Reinhard, MDS '65 graduate and former secretary of our school. Lucy was a woman of grace and a loyal friend who taught us how to love life and have Emunah against all odds. May the ent
 WISOFF-Esther. In her 95th year on August 16, 2000. Wife of the late Percy Wisoff, a retired teacher who educated students at PS       
 Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx. She was 82. For more than 50 years, Mrs. Amato was in many ways the welcoming face of her family-run opera company.
 Eva Gatling, an art historian and curator who for many years was the director of the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Westminister-Canterbury, a continuing care community in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived in recent years. She was 87. ''The major
 ADELMAN-Martha Hughes. 74 years, of Boca Raton, Florida. She is survived by her devoted husband, Emanuel. Mother of Robert and Rosemary Thompson. Stepmother of Janet Adelman and her husband Robert Osserman. Grandmother of Michael Caton, Brian and Stephen Osserman. Sister of Mary Louise and 
 ALFORD-Margaret M. December 30, 1907-August 17, 2000, of Manhasset, NY. Beloved wife of the late Robert H. Alford. Devoted mother of Margaret Ann Alford of Manhasset, Mrs. Patricia Sears of Port Washington and James R. Alford of Manhasset. Grandmother of Mrs. Sarah Chandonnet of Glen Head a
 CHEN-Una Y.T., 87. Granddaughter of Tan Chun-Lin, Governor General of Guang Dong and Guang Xi Provinces, daughter of Tan Yen-Kai, Chairman and First Prime Minister of Nationalist China, died peacefully while visiting her son, Harold Chen in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Chen, beloved wife of K
 GATLING-Eva Ingersoll. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Heckscher Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of Director Emeritus and Honorary Trustee Eva Ingersoll Gatling. Her professionalism and 15 years of dedicated leadership laid the foundation for all that has come a
 GERSTMAN-Berenice S., 92. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. on August 17 in Somerset, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Mrs. Gerstman was an elementary school teacher in the New York City school system for 35 years. She also taught gym, reading and served as acting principal. She was a trustee o
 GILBARD-Marion. Our beloved sister and aunt, astoundingly beautiful and elegant at 73, brimming with joy, having found love again after the loss of her beloved husband, Harris Gilbard, lost her battle with pancreatic cancer. Her easy going, warm hearted, generous nature was only surpassed b
 HORAN-Helen M. 89. Of Woodbury, CT. on Monday, August 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Harold A. Horan for 67 years. She was the daughter of the late Michael and Ellen (Farrell) Feeney. Formerly of Brooklyn, she moved to Woodbury 25 years ago. She was the beloved mother of two sons, Robert A. Hora
 IANNICI - Gertrude Fitzpatrick. Passed away on August 17. Age 75. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Iannici. Survived by her beloved daughter and son-in-law Jane and Joseph Pontarelli. Dear sister of Michael Fitzpatrick (Jean), Jeri Crivilli (Louis), her beloved brother-in-law Joseph Iannici 
 LEWIS-Constance Dengel (Connie), 75, of John's Island in Vero Beach, FL. Died at home on Wednesday morning, August 16, 2000. After a short remission her breast cancer had recurred as brain cancer. Though her relapse was sudden and unexpected, she passed away peacefully, painlessly, and with
 LIEF-Nina R. 0n August 18, 2000 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Victor Filler Lief. Dear mother of Carlotta and mother-inlaw of David Schuster. Adored grandmother of Amanda. Cherished stepsister of George Poliakoff. Services Sunday, August 20, 2 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th S
 LOWY-Irma. Resident of New York City, died in her 90th year at home after a long illness. She is survived by her daughter Ruth Lacey, her son Frank Lowy, and her three grandchildren Alexander, Evan, and Andrew. A camp director for over 20 years, she will be fondly remembered by her campers 
 BOSSE-Janet Cowan, 70. Died at her home in New York City, on Sunday, July 23, 2000. Born in Detroit to Grace Avery and Glen P. Cowan. She grew up in Cleveland. After dancing professionally, she matriculated to Sarah Lawrence College, where she began a lifelong devotion to fine arts. Between
 FRIEDMAN-Jeanette. On August 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of Avra and Paul and his wife, Gillian. Cherished grandmother of Loren and Joslyn, Rebecca and David, Sarah and Emily. She gave generously of herself to her husband and family, and lived life with great cu
 GILBARD-Marion. Of Boca Raton, on August 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harris; Loving mother of Andrew (Cheryle), Dale and Arnold Carlton; Cherished grandmother of Marlena, Edward, India and Rani and great grandmother of Tiffany; Adored sister of Helen (Shelly) Rodbell; Aunt of Gerry (
 IANNICI - Gertrude Fitzpatrick. Passed away on August 17. Age 75. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Iannici. Survived by her beloved daughter and son-in-law Jane and Joseph Pontarelli. Dear sister of Michael Fitzpatrick (Jean), Jeri Crivilli (Louis), her beloved brother-in-law Joseph Iannici 
 KARGMAN-Ethel. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Devoted mother of Judith Borell, Lewis and Richard. Loving mother-in-law of Martin M. Borell, Amy, Judie. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. She was active in many charitable organizations: Hadassah, B'nai Brith, City of Hope, A.D.L., 
 LIEF-Nina R. The staff and board members of the Center for Comprehensive Health Practice (CCHP) mourn the death of Dr. Lief, our friend and colleague of 33 years. She was an American pioneer in teaching both parents and professionals about the role of parent-child interactions in the emotio
 LOEMKER - Dorothy Rowden. Died in Bridgeport, CT on August 10, 2000 of complications following pneumonia. She was born on February 27, 1901 in Woodsville, NH. A 1921 graduate of Simmons College, the culmination of her long and distinguished professional career was as Assistant Director and 
 OKRENT-Odette, age 97. Born in Paris, France. Educated at the Lycee Jules Ferry, Bachelor's degree in Philosophy. Beloved mother of Jacqueline Goldman, mother-in-law for 37 years of Nathan Goldman, both of Palm Beach, New York & Paris. Grandmother to Philip Engelhardt (Helen) of Menlo Park,
 WEISS-Anne de la Vergne. The writer and editor Anne de la Vergne Weiss died at home in Chestertown, MD, August 13 at the age of 74. She was the daughter of Charles and Carol de la Vergne, of Kingston, NY. She is survived by her husband, Irving Weiss, four children, and five grandchildren. A
 Pat Hearn, one of the leading art dealers of the last two decades, a founder of the Gramercy International Art Fair and a pioneer of the art scene in the East Village, SoHo and Chelsea, died on Friday at her vacation home in Provincetown, Mass. She was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The
 CANICK-Helene M. On Friday August 18th. Wife of Leon. Sister of Theo and Paul Siesage. Aunt of Kenneth and Lynn Sass, Judith Sass, Nigel and Susan Siesage, and Martin and Judith Vermond; and great-aunt to their children. Her friends here, and in England and Holland, will miss her.       
 EHRENPREIS-Pearl. On August 19, 2000. Loving wife of Walter. Devoted mother of Susan and Sandra. Proud grandmother of Ariel. Beloved sister of Murray, George, Irving and Sy. Adored teacher for 37 years. She will always be in our hearts and minds. A memorial service will be held at Sinai Cha
 HAFNER-Helen Karin. 86, died peacefully May 20 in San Dimas, CA. Born in Duluth, MN, June 8, 1913, she earned a Ph.D. from the Sorbonne, Paris, France, in 1935, and an MSW from the University of Michigan in 1952. She taught at Manchester College, NY, in the Department of Education, speciali
 MURPHY-Catherine M. (Heffernan). 94, formerly of NYC, died on August 17, 2000, at the Jersey Shore Medical Center, Neptune, NJ. Predeceased by her husband Edward F. in 1952, and by her sister Marion T. Healey in 1997. Surviving is her niece Marion K. Healey Reilly and her husband Richard C.
 RESNIK-Sylvia. 93, of Miami, originally from New York, passed away August 19, 2000. Loving wife of the late Irving Resnik; beloved mother of Cynthia Resnik and Marilyn (Felix) Scott; loving grandmother of Neil Scott and Melissa Powell; and proud great-grandmother of Austin and Ethan Powell.
 Lena Cymbrowitz, a first-term state assemblywoman from Brooklyn, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 43. Her family said she had been ill for a long time, but gave no details. Ms. Cymbrowitz, a Democrat, represented the 45th District, which includes Sheepshead Bay, Manhatta
 CONWESSER-Ceila. Beloved wife of the late Murray, devoted mother of Laura, Robert and Jon Taylor, loving grandmother of Joon, Meeyun, Josh and Heather, and cherished aunt of Bernice, Steven, Allison and the late Andrea. We will all miss her.       
 CYMBROWITZ-Lena. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the untimely passing of a colleague and friend. Lena was the founding Director of our Project Machson and a supporter of all those in need. May Steven, Jennifer and Jay be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. 
 DOBRER-Jean. June 18, 1954August 18, 2000, of Chicago. Beloved wife of Robert Suomala. Wonderful daughter of Kenneth and Florence Dobrer. Treasured sister of Nina Dobrer. Dear aunt of Emily, Amanda, Sussana and Nicholas Hoffman. Dear step daughter of Janet Dobrer. Best friend to so many in 
 SOLOMON-Lillian Rubin. The 100th anniversary of her birth. August 22, 1900-December 18, 1994. We miss you, Mother. Horac       
 BERGER-Ruth Louise Krug. Died at home July 30, 2000, age 87. Much loved by her many friends. Graduate of Montclair State Teachers College in 1933, and then volunteer teacher in North Carolina for one year. She was Administrative Secretary at the Herald Tribune, Personnel Director at Fairchi
 DECOF-Adele Ruth (Birenbaum). August 21, 2000. Beloved wife of Leonard Decof. Residence: 21 Marine Ave., Newport, R.I. Dear mother of Mark B. Decof, Swansea, MA and Andrea B. Decof, Westwood, MA. Loving sister of the late Robert C. Byron. Devoted grandmother of Mallory, Emily, Zachary and H
 GREENSTEIN-Diane (De-De) Samuels. Tragically taken on August 20, 2000. Beloved wife of Dennis, loving mother of Judd, Lael and Adra, dear daughter of the late Margie and Morris Samuels, sister of Natalie (Bill) Carroll, Ira Samuels, sister-in-law of Enid and Marvin Goldsmith, daughter-inlaw
 HOGAN-Mary Jane (nee McGrath) on August 20, 2000. Long-time resident of Hicksville, NY at the age of 75. Beloved wife of the late Thomas L. with whom she helped launch the luxury liner ''S.S. Frances.'' Organizer for the reunions of the WWII 42nd Naval Construction Battalion (Seebees). Life
 KATZ-Rose age 102, of Wyckoff, NJ formerly of Elmont, NY, on August 21, 2000. Survived by her children Stanley of Florida and Doris Brown of New Jersey. Ten loving grandchildren and nineteen adored great-grandchildren. Predeceased by her beloved husband Isadore and two children Helen Schaps
 WAIS-Pauline. August 21, 2000. Beloved sister of the late Bertha and Frances. Daughter of the late Clara Wallkind and Phillip Wais. At 95, she has touched the lives of innumerable friends and colleagues. All those who knew and loved Pauline will profoundly miss her for her graciousness and 
 Helen Culver Ewing Breasted, who worked at Hull House in Chicago with Jane Addams, its founder and a family friend, died Sunday at her home in Tamworth, N.H. She was 90 and also had a home in Sewickley, Pa. Mrs. Breasted, a native of Chicago, attended Vassar College. As a volunteer 
 Joan Marsh, who made her film debut when she was 9 months old, played children's roles in silent films opposite Mary Pickford and returned to the screen in the 1930's and 40's as a glamorous blonde, died on Aug. 10 in Ojai, Calif. She was 85. She was born Dorothy Rosher in Portervil
 FARKAS-Hilda. Died peacefully in her 99th year at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. Born in Hungary to Salamon and Etelka Buchner. Studied in Berlin, Germany and immigrated to the U.S. as a young woman in 1928. She had seven brothers and sisters, the beloved Rudolf, Aladar, Jeno,
 HELLER-Audrey. On August 23rd, 2000 at the age of 83. Beloved wife of James Heller, one month before their 60th wedding anniversary. Survived by her devoted daughter, Barbara, and son-in-law, Edgar Freitag, and loving son, Steven, and daughter-in-law, Michelle Heller, and precious grandchil
 KAUFMANN-Audrey Price Margolis. Formerly of Albany, NY. Died at the Hebrew Home for the Aged, Riverdale, NY on August 24, 2000. Predeceased by her husbands Matthew Margolis and Albert Kaufmann. Survived by her brother, Dr. William Price (Sydell) of Phoenix, her children, Douglas P. Margolis
 LAVIN-Jean. Of Orangeburg, NY. She had a life of spirit, love, courage and artistic talent. It was a privilege and a pleasure to be her child. Mrs. Lavin was the widow of Jack Lavin; beloved mother of Stanley Lavin of Great Neck and Eileen Rogers of Orangeburg, NY; grandmother of Evan and M
 WENDER-Ruth. Passed away August 23, 2000. Wife of the late Jerry Wender. Beloved twin sister of Irene Winkelman. Devoted mother of Theodore and his wife Vicki, Jill Spitz and her husband Richard. Adored grandmother of Daniel, Austin, Jenny and Max. Loved by all her family and friends. You w
 HELLER-Audrey. Easter Seals New York extends its heartfelt sympathy to James Heller and family for the loss of their loved one, Audrey Heller. Christine McMahon, COO HELLER-Audrey. The sweetest, warmest person we have ever known. A true gem. Our sincere condolences to her husband Ji
 HOFRICHTER-Harriet (Luth) age 84, formerly of Killingworth and North Madison, CT. Funeral services will be held Sunday 2PM at the North Madison Congregational Church. Contributions may be made in her memory to the North Madison Congregational Church, 1271 Durham Road, Madison, CT. 06443, or
 LEIFER-Betty. Passed away on August 23 at age 85. Mrs. Leifer was a corsetier and homemaker. She is survived by her sons Neil & Howie, a brother Melvin, grandchildren Jodi & Corey & greatgrandchildren Joey & Taylor.       
 PUSHMAN-Suzanne (Effie). On August 21, 2000, of Bronxville, NY. Services were held on Friday, August 25 at the Westchester Funeral Home Inc. in Eastchester with burial following in Woodlawn Cemetery. Friends may contribute to the Reformed Church of Bronxville in her memory.       
 SANDAK-Marjorie Fink. Passed away August 25, 2000 peacefully in her 90th year. Wife of the late Charles Sandak. Dear aunt of Helen and Alan Greene, great-aunt of James, Tina, Michael and Alison.       
 SELLIN-GREHER-Sarah L., 93, Passed away in Lauder Hill, FL on August 25, 2000. Her life was filled with spirit, joy and love. Her husband Murray Greher, nephew Robert F. Baer, grandnieces Susanne Jacoby-Hale and Rochelle Jacoby-Sanchez and greatgrandnieces and nephew Chelsea, Matthew and Sa
 WHITE-Jeanne P. Hammer. Age 81, of Bellport, LI (formerly of Sayville) on August 24, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John F. White, Jr. Dear mother of Susan Callahan, Janet Foster and Rosemary White-Traut. Loving grandmother of ten. Reposing at Raynor & D'Andrea Funeral Home, 245 Montauk Hig
 FIORELLA-Carol. When I see Carly smile and the sparkle in her eyes, I know you are here with us. Forever, Abby, Julie, Carly       
 BRIDBORD-Gertrude (nee Koslan) on August 24th. Beloved wife of the late Herman Bridbord. Cherished mother of Ken and Maryanne of Chevy Chase, MD, and Bill and Tzippy of Great Neck, NY. Adored grandmother of Karen, Sharon and Itzhak Johnathan. A graveside service will be held on Sunday, Augu
 DOBRER-Jean. June 18, 1954August 18, 2000, of Chicago. Beloved wife of Robert Suomalaher perfect mate. Wonderful daughter of Kenneth Dobrer and Florence Dobrer. Treasured sister of Nina Dobrer Hoffman-the other half of their very special sisterhood. Cherished sister-in-law of Stanley Hoffma
 EISENROD-Estelle. Age 85, of Flushing, NY, died August 18, 2000. Buried at Mt. Hebron Cemetery. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Eisenrod. She graduated in 1934 from Brooklyn College with a BA degree in Latin and French. She was a claims examiner for the New York State Workers Compensation
 FRIDUSS-Ella, 92. On August 23. Beloved wife of the late Eugene; loving and devoted mother of Nicholas and Susan; grandmother of Steven, David, Michael and John; great-grandmother of Amy and Michael. Her children and many friends will miss her generosity, kindness, humor and wisdom.       
 HELLER-Audrey. On August 23rd, 2000 at the age of 83. Beloved wife of James Heller, one month before their 60th wedding anniversary. Survived by her devoted daughter, Barbara, and son-in-law, Edgar Freitag, and loving son, Steven, and daughter-in-law, Michelle Heller, and precious grandchil
 SHULMAN-Shirley. Died at home in New York City, August 20, 2000. The devoted wife of Irving J. Shulman, who is the founder of Daffy's, Inc., the loving mother to, Marcia, Dr. Robert, and Michael, and cherished grandmother of eight, Joshua, Gabriel, Damon, Evan, Gabriel, Zoe, Davy, and Hanna
 TURKHEIMER-Mary B. Our condolences to Justice Karla Moskowitz and her family on the loss of her mother. The Metropolitan Womens' Bar Association       
 WENDER-Ruth. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Wender, a generous supporter of our Women's Campaign. Our deepest sympathies go to her twin sister, Irene Winkelman, herself a devoted contributor; her son, The
 SCHWEBEL-Devora Ruth Denenholz. We mark on the 22nd of August the first year since the sudden passing of Devora Ruth Denenholz Schwebel, beloved wife of Solomon, youngest of the Denenholz Ten who knew her as Dovey : Her sisters and brothers Alma, Amelia, Grace, the late Marshall, Daniel, Ri
 BENIOFF-Florence. Died August 27 at home in Allentown, PA. She was 92. Born in New Britain, CT, the daughter of Bessie and Samuel H. Edelson and raised in Baltimore, she graduated from Towsen State University as a teacher. She worked as a social worker for the Hebrew Benevolent Society of P
 BIRN-Rose. Died 26 Av. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Nathan Birn, mother of Shellee and Saul Berman and Marty Birn; grandmother of Shama, Efrath and Gal Levy, Akiva and Esther Golda Berman. She blended unconditional love, responsibility and joy in a unique mixture which enriched our lives an
 GOLDSCHLAGER-Edna (nee Cohen). Teacher and educational administrator. On August 27, 2000, at her home. Beloved wife of William, loving mother of Marcia Epstein (Paul) of Gladwine, PA, and Seth Goldschlager (Isabelle) of Paris, France. Grandmother of Amy and Leonard Feldman, Robin Epstein, E
 GORDON-Ruth. August 26, in her 90th year, leaves Lewis, her beloved husband of 63 years; adored mother of Fred and Charles Richard; mother-in-law of Susan; cherished grandmother of Justin, Jacqueline, Rebecca; niece, Barbara. Ever mindful of her roots, she built her life around supporting n
 HOROWITZ-Ruth B. Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Forest Hills and Cutchogue, NY. Passed away on August 26, 2000. Sculptor, beloved wife of Norman Horowitz, D.D.S.; mother of Howard, Barbara, Carol, Meryl, and Judy; sister of Seymour Cohen; grandmother of seven. She will be deeply missed
 MARKAY-Barbara Cohen (nee Greenberg) ''Bobbie.'' Of Boca Raton, FL, on August 26, 2000. Beloved wife of Robert Markay. Cherished mother of her three daughters and their husbands, Deborah and Barry Kosofsky, Leslie and Eric Rubury, Joanne and Duane Fiedler. Adored Nana of Travis, Carrie, Dal
 SELLIN-GREHER-Sarah L. Our beloved and inspiring high school history teacher who left an indelible imprint on the lives of so many of us. Sarah Sellin-Greher, a woman of great wit, intelligence, and integrity was a teacher par excellence. She taught us to be aware, to read between the lines
 WALLER-Esther. Died on July 1, 2000, at the Sarah Newman Nursing Home. She was born on March 30, 1907 in Brooklyn, NY. She lived in Long Beach and Islip, LI, Antrim, NH, and had lived in Bronxville for 20 years. Mrs. Waller was a member of The Reformed Church of Bronxville and was a devoted
 WOLF-Rose. Loving wife of 59 years of Marvin. Mother of Diane and Steven Katz, Arlene and Robert Fauser, Sharon and Mark Horowitz. Grandmother of Brian and Nancy, Darren, Chad, Emily and Joshua. Cherished sister of Florence Schoenhut and the late Stanley Howard, and sister-in-law of Betty H
 BENIOFF-Florence. The Cornell University community mourns the passing of Florence Benioff, mother of devoted Cornell alumni Barbara Friedman and Richard Benioff. We express our sincere condolences to Barbara and Stephen Friedman and Richard and Mary Benioff. We also send condolences to Mrs.
 BERLINGERI-Noushie Teymourtache. On August 26, 2000. Her husband Vincenzo, sons Andrea with Jenny and Alexei with Smadar & sister Patricia will miss forever this extraordinary, beautiful grand lady. Service Thursday, August 31 at 4PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, NYC. In lieu of flowers,
 BIRN-Rose. Lincoln Square Synagogue mourns with sorrow the passing of Mrs. Rose Birn, mother of our members Shellee Berman and Martin Birn, and mother-in-law of our member and former Rabbi, Saul Berman. May her memory be a blessing. Adam Mintz, Rabbi Ken Cappell, President       
 GOLDMUNTZ-Marcel. On August 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Rita, loving father of Arlette Miller, and her husband, George, and Paul Goldmuntz. Cherished grandfather of Lisa, John, David, Anna, & Ben. Great grandfather of Zachary. Dear brother of Anita Freudman. Services at 12:45, on Tuesday a
 GOLDSCHLAGER-Edna (nee Cohen). Teacher and educational administrator. On August 27, 2000, at her home. Beloved wife of William, loving mother of Marcia Epstein (Paul) of Gladwyne, PA, and Seth Goldschlager (Isabelle) of Paris, France. Grandmother of Amy and Leonard Feldman, Robin Epstein, E
 GORDON-Ruth. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, a dear friend who-with her husband, I. Lewis-was a YU Benefactor. Former professionals with the NYC Board of Education, they expressed their dedication to the advancement of J
 HANSON-Muriel R. Died August 23, 2000 in Chatham, MA., at the age of 83. Born on July 7, 1917, she graduated from Vassar College in 1938. Her first marriage to Roberto Rendueles Alsina ended in divorce. She later married Donald P. Hanson, founder and publisher of Woman's Day magazine. After
 KOREK-Roslyn, 60. Loving wife of Seymour. Devoted mother of Jeff, Lawrence and Jodi. Cherished sister of Alvin Weigel. Beloved mother-in-law of Jolie, Melissa and Craig. Loving grandmother of Cydney, Skylar, Jake and Spencer. We love you and will miss you. Friends who wish may contribute to
 ROCKLIN-Helene (nee Milich). Died August 27, 2000, suddenly at home. Her gifts to us, her ebullient spirit, laughter, love of reading and music. Survived by her sons, Edward Rocklin, of California, Peter Rocklin, of New Jersey, Arthur Rocklin, of Maryland, and granddaughter, Rachel.       
 SPIVAK-Renee. The members of the Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of East End Hospice extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of our devoted friend, volunteer and supporter Renee Spivak upon her sudden death. We extend our sincere condolences to her loving husband William, their chi
 STREUSAND-Ruth F. 82, of Royal Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of Scarsdale NY. On August 26, 2000. Retired Attorney for New York State Labor Relations Board. Graduate of Hunter College, Class of 1938 and Columbia Law School, Class of 1941. She was a Master Bridge player and active in Hadassah. De
 SWANSON-Janet T. It is with great sadness that the Board of Directors and Members of the North Fork Women for Women Fund. Inc. mourn the loss of our esteemed Co-Founder, first President and friend on Saturday, August 26. Jan's commitment to women's health, the spirit of her friendship and p
 WOLF-Rose. Loving wife of 59 years of Marvin. Mother of Diane and Steven Katz, Arlene and Robert Fauser, Sharon and Mark Horowitz. Grandmother of Brian and Nancy, Darren, Chad, Emily and Joshua. Cherished sister of Florence Schoenhut and the late Stanley Howard, and sister-in-law of Betty H
 Ginetta Sagan, a leader of the American branch of Amnesty International who as a girl fought World War II's injustices in Europe and suffered for it, died last Friday at her home in Atherton, Calif., between San Francisco and San Jose. She was 75. The cause was cancer, said the Amer
 BENIOFF-Florence. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the death of Florence Benioff, beloved mother of our distinguished friend and long-time advocate Barbara Friedman, former chair of the Distribution Committee who currently serves on our Board of Directors
 CAMMISA-Marian A. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson. Died July 22, 2000 at Harlem Valley Hospital Center, she was 83. Miss Cammisa was born in Dobbs Ferry, NY on January 21, 1917 and was the daughter of Frank and Maria Rago Cammisa. Miss Cammisa was a former legal secretary and sang opera at C
 KUFELD-Georgia. On August 29, 2000. Beloved wife and life partner of Henry (Buddy) Kufeld. Sister to Sarayom and Margot Fletcher. Aunt and great-aunt to many adoring nieces and nephews. Friend and guardian of all God's creatures. May her memory be a blessing. Funeral, August 30, at 1:00 P.M
 KURTZ-Ruth. On August 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Michael Kurtz. Dear mother of Dr. Robert S. Kurtz and Daniel Kurtz. Cherished grandmother of Holly, Elizabeth, Amy, Ben, Peter and Michael. Mother-in-law of Ketly and Elizabeth. We all share her cherished ideals. Graveside service Thu
 RAPPAPORT-Eva (Bocian). On August 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of Jay Perry (Barbara) and Edith (Joseph) Amorese. Cherished grandmother of Marc (Sherry), Matthew, Michelle, David and Lona Allda, and the late Jake. Great-grandmother of Morgan, Abigail and Maxwell
 SCHAEFLER-Gertrude H. Died at home on August 29, 2000 in her 97th year, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Leon Schaefler. Devoted mother of Roberta S. Adler-Lazar, and Kathryn S. Pershan. Fond mother-inlaw of Richard H. Pershan and Nat Lazar. Loving grandmother of six grandchi
 SHAPIRO-Sylvia. Loving wife of the late Aaron Shapiro and mother of Ted Shapiro, Roberta (Shapiro) Dubner, and Judi (Shapiro) Solomito, passed away the evening of August 28, 2000, at the age of 90. A woman of quiet grace and dignity, she was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother, whose str
 SHERMAN-Judith B. On August 29, 2000. Loving wife of 51 years of Paul, devoted mother of Karen and Scott and soon-to-be motherin-law of Kim. Cherished motherin-law of Jim and beloved grandmother of Justin. Fond sister-inlaw of Elaine and her husband Mac. Judy's kindness, selflessness and bo
 SHOUEL-Arlene Simon. Devoted wife of Jack Shouel of Bayside, NY, died on August 29. She leaves her son David and daughter-in-law Michele of East Brunswick, NJ; grandchildren Heather and Matthew; sisters Evelyn S. Gilman of West Hartford, CT., and Marilyn Kurland of Rivervale, NJ; niece and 
 Renee Orin, an actress and singer known for her roles in Broadway musicals, died on Sunday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. She had lymphoma, said her husband, Albert Hague, a Tony-winning composer of Broadway musicals. Ms. Orin made her Broadway 
 BENIOFF-Florence. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Outreach Institute in New York mourn the passing of Florence Benioff, loving mother of our esteemed member of the board and advocate, Barbara Friedman. Through her life, she taught the values that live on in her children, gran
 CALLAHAN-Helen Mary. Passed away on Wednesday, August 30, 2000. She was born on February 1, 1920 to Matthew and Helen Skelly, and was married to the late Daniel J. Callahan for over 50 years. Mrs. Callahan is survived by her daughters Geraldine Greene and Jacqueline Callahan-Stewart, and he
 CALLAHAN-Inez Zucker. Wife and adored companion of Joseph Callahan for forty years, died on August 29th after her heroic struggle with cancer. Inez, a terrific raconteur, charmed the world with her beauty, brilliance and extraordinary wit. Like her father, the renowned Ecole de Paris artist
 CAYTON-Doris. Died on August 30. Devoted and beloved wife of Bill Cayton, her loving husband of 58 years. Cherished mother of Brian, Patricia and Merrie. Loved mother-in-law of Meryl and Kurt. Loved grandmother of Vanessa and Gabrielle. Treasured sister of Morton Roberts and his wife Dolore
 McCORMICK-Marian R. On August 29, 2000 of Port Washington. Beloved wife of the late Thomas E. Loving mother of Brian and Mark. Also survived by her loving daughters-in-law Susan and Patricia. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Thursday 3-5 & 7-9 pm. F
 MUSS-BADNER-Rita. On August 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Louis Muss. Loving mother of Elizabeth Muss, Marion Green and Henry Muss. Cherished grandmother of Saundra Green-Rice. Services Friday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her memory may be mad
 RUSSIANOFF-Penelope. Age 82. Peacefully at home in Manhattan, August 28, 2000. A dedicated clinical psychologist in private practice in New York, Penny was a member of the faculty of the New School beginning in 1960. She held numerous professional posts; gave lectures and workshops in the U
 SANDQUIST-Fannie W. Widow of Gustave. Sister of the late Arthur W. Wallander (former NYC Police Commissioner). Beloved aunt of Henrietta McFee, Rosalind Renouard, Barbara Spencer and Arthur Wallander, Jr. Died in her 102nd year on August 28 in Lenox Hill Hospital after a short illness. Her 
 SCHAEFLER-Gertrude H. Died at home on August 29, 2000 in her 97th year, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Leon Schaefler. Devoted mother of Roberta S. Adler-Lazar, and Kathryn S. Pershan. Fond mother-inlaw of Richard H. Pershan and Nat Lazar. Loving grandmother of six grandchi
 SHOUEL-Arlene Simon. Devoted wife of Jack Shouel of Bayside, NY, died on August 29. She leaves her son David and daughter-in-law Michele of East Brunswick, NJ; grandchildren Heather and Matthew; sisters Evelyn S. Gilman of West Hartford, CT., and Marilyn Kurland of Rivervale, NJ; niece and 
 WOLF-Rose. Loving wife of 59 years of Marvin. Mother of Diane and Steven Katz, Arlene and Robert Fauser, Sharon and Mark Horowitz. Grandmother of Brian and Nancy, Darren, Chad, Emily and Joshua. Cherished sister of Florence Schoenhut and the late Stanley Howard, and sister-in-law of Betty H
