 DESERIO--Cathy. Our Cathy was a shining light. Her sun rays touched everyone. Her determination, laughter and beauty will be with us always. Forever remembered. Michelle and Peter Roth, Henry Roth, Lilian Weinreich and Aneta and Joseph Weinreich and staff       
 KLOTZ--Patricia Hopkins. A lady who brought beauty and kindness into the lives of many died peacefully on May 30, 2004 at her home in McLean, VA. Beloved mother of Radford and Leslie of New York City and Taylor of Arlington, VA. Proud grandmother of Herbert Klotz and Marcus Klotz of New Yor
 MARAVEL -- Patricia. On May 29, 2004. Beloved mother of Jessica Maravel-Piccolo and Alex Maravel-Piccolo and fiance Margarita Christoforou. Devoted daughter of James and the late Lillian. Dear sister of Alexis and Joseph DiGrazia. Loving aunt of Marisa and Michael Milo and Christina DiGrazi
 COFFEY--Rose M. Died May 23rd, 2004 in Manhattan. Beloved to family and friends. She is survived by two daughters, Rosemary Dann, Coral Springs, Florida, and Isabell Coffey-King, NYC, and her granddaughter Patricia Dann Loyde, Richmond, Virginia. Services at the convenience of the family.  
 FARRELL--Rita. Died peacefully on May 27, 2004. Dear sister of Adele N. Reilly and Mercedes Alden. She was a trust and estates attorney in New York City for over 60 years. Graduated from St. John's College School of Law and the University of Oklahoma. She was very active in civic affairs: f
 FREUNDLICH -- Edith. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children Peter and Andrew and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott M. Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, Preside
 INSELMAN--Rae. Died on May 31, 2004 in Tucson, Arizona at age 88. Beloved wife of Alexander Inselman, who predeceased her in 1987. Loving mother of Dr. Laura Inselman and Dr. Barbara Inselman-Temkin, mother-inlaw of Dr. Lawrence Temkin, and grandmother of Joshua Temkin & Deborah Temkin. Bor
 LeVINE-LEVITAN--Zelda K. On May 30, 2004. New York City and previously St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Beloved wife of Milton Levitan and the late Herbert S. LeVine. Loving mother of Andrea, Nancy and John and motherin-law of Lee and Marlene. Proud grandmother of Adam, David and Abby. Sister of
 LISCHNER--Celia R., of New York City, passed away peacefully on Sunday, May 30, 2004 in the Inpatient Hospice Unit at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Allentown. Born in Firth, Germany, she was the daughter of the late Max and Gertrude (Eisenberg) Lischner. She was retired as a librarian from the Qu
 TAMARIN -- Bernice (War shaw) on May 31, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Sanford. Loving mother of her devoted sons Charles, Frank and Jeffrey. Caring mother-in-law of Lisa Tamarin and Sharon Hammer. Adored and adoring grandmother of Sandra, Mark, Rachel and Benjamin. Services Thursday 9:30 
 DICKSTEIN--Edith. On June 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank Dickstein and the late Stanley I. Gilbert. Loving mother of Dennis and Nancy Gilbert, Pam and Jeffrey Gittleman, Lauren and Barry Siegel, and Judith Dickstein. Adoring grandmother of Shane and Lee Gilbert, Hallie and Jill Git
 FREYDBERG--Dorothy, died on June 2, 2004. Beloved wife of Norman, loving aunt of Nancy and Frank Vener, Lynn Warshow, Tony and Leslie Freydberg and Ralph and Susan Freydberg. Devoted great-aunt of Lori, Kira, Dan, Joan and Ronald. Private services. FREYDBERG--Dorothy. The Board of G
 HALL--Brenda. The staff of WQXR mourns the death of our friend and colleague Brenda Hall on May 30, 2004 after an extended illness. Brenda served as an Account Executive at WQXR for nearly fifteen years handling many of our travel, entertainment and corporate accounts. Prior to joining WQXR
 LeVINE-LEVITAN--Zelda K. On May 30, 2004. New York City and previously St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Beloved wife of Milton Levitan and the late Herbert S. LeVine. Loving mother of Andrea, Nancy and John and motherin-law of Lee and Marlene. Proud grandmother of Adam, David and Abby. Sister of
 MALDONADO -- Catherine Cocke, mother of Dolores, Maria Clara, Magdalena Moyano, and Lewis Maldonado, died peacefully at 97, May 31. Born in 1906 in Columbus, Mississippi; educated at Parsons; lived in Paris in the 20s. Married Horacio Moyano of Cordoba, Argentina and lived in Argentina unti
 SINGER--Bernice P. On June 2, 2004 of East Hills, L.I. Beloved wife of Dr. Herbert, devoted mother of Gilbert and Betsy, Dr. Steven and Sharon, Dr. Robert and Natali, cherished grandmother of seven. Services today 2PM at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. SINGER -- B
 WOLINETZ--Naomi. We extend heartfelt condolences to Harvey Wolinetz, Mollie Fein, Tammy Schaum, Rena Katz, Atara Reichel, Aaron Wolinetz, Rabbi Hyman Fein and Arthur Fein on the passing of his wife, her daughter, their mother and sister. Naomi's life centered around her adoring family whom 
 FELSEN--Esther. 6/3/21--6/28/98. Missed and remembered every day. With love, her famil       
 DICKSTEIN--Edith. On June 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank Dickstein and the late Stanley I. Gilbert. Loving mother of Dennis and Nancy Gilbert, Pam and Jeffrey Gittleman, Lauren and Barry Siegel, and Judith Dickstein. Adoring grandmother of Shane and Lee Gilbert, Hallie and Jill Git
 STEINBERG--Leon. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the brother of our member, Mrs. Sylvia Cohen. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 WHITE--Daphne L. (Landon), 75, of Sarasota, FL, died after a long illness with lung cancer. Loving mother of Cynthia Rossini of New York City and Daphne L. White II of Riverside, CT and is survived by her sister Patricia Kauders of Manchester, MA. Memorial donations may be made in her name 
 WOLINETZ--Naomi. AMIT is deeply grieved by the untimely passing of an astute communal leader and beloved AMIT national board member who, together with her most devoted husband Harvey, generously contributed to the support of thousands of needy AMIT children. A true ''Woman of Valor'', Naomi
 BALIS -- Lorraine (Cooper). The Frankel family joins hands with the Cooper and Feinberg families in mourning the death of Lorraine. To Richard and Donna, your mother set the standard for being a lady, a mother, and a grandmother. We will all miss her grace and spirit. The Stuart Frankel Fam
 COHN--Rosalind. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 GOLDBERG--Natalie Perlo. Died June 3rd, 2004 after a long battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Ephraim for 57 years, mother of Holly, Michael, and Judy, mother-inlaw of Howard, Paula, and Robert, grandmother of Andrew and Nancy, Leah and Damon, Sarah, Johanna, Jesse, Ari, and Dina, greatgran
 HAMMER--Rhoda. Beloved grandmother to Stephen and Cheryl, Larry and Susan, Richard and Jennifer, Greg and Jeanine, and Allison Rush. Great grandmother to Rachel, Jessica, Sarah, Jonathan, Jacob, Lindsay, Olivia and Landon. We will miss you very much. HAMMER -- Rhoda (Fried man). Bel
 PARSONS--Mary Sherman, passed peacefully from this world on June 2nd. Beloved sister of Todd and aunt of Brooks, Tucker, Nick and Jessica. True friend and gardener extraordinaire, she will be missed by all who knew and loved her.       
 BALIS -- Lorraine (Cooper). The Frankel family joins hands with the Cooper and Feinberg families in mourning the death of Lorraine. To Richard and Donna, your mother set the standard for being a lady, a mother, and a grandmother. We will all miss her grace and spirit. The Stuart Frankel Fam
 BECKER--Renee Carol. Died on June 3, 2004. Adored wife of Dr. Norman Becker. Loving mother of Marcy Kwiatkowski, Jody Zohn, Irving Becker and Lori Leif. Cherished grandmother of Abbie, Amanda, Samantha, Molly, Emma, Cooper and Rebecca. Sister of Lillian Ornston and beloved aunt, mother-in-l
 BRODEK--Evelyn B. ''Teddy'' age 98, of Cranberry Township, PA, formerly of New York on Thursday, May 13, 2004. Born January 7, 1906 in New York, the daughter of the late Julius and Sidonia Kampf Brodek. Miss Brodek was an active member of the Riverside Church and its Tower League. She was a
 CUSHMAN -- Florence Blauvelt, 89, of San Marcos, California, died peacefully on Thursday, May 27, 2004 in Pasadena, California, surrounded by her three loving sons. She was preceded in death by her parents, Louis Frank Blauvelt and Laura Lay Blauvelt; her husband of 59 years, John Clydesdal
 DICKSTEIN -- Edith. The Board of Directors, management and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Board member and benefactor, Mrs. Edith Dickstein. Edie's, along with her beloved late husband Frank's, participation and contributions 
 GOLDBERG--Natalie Perlo. Died June 3rd, 2004 after a long battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Ephraim for 57 years, mother of Holly, Michael, and Judy, mother-inlaw of Howard, Paula, and Robert, grandmother of Andrew and Nancy, Leah and Damon, Sarah, Johanna, Jesse, Ari, and Dina, greatgran
 GRECO--Maria. Casting director, MGA School of Acting, coach, mentor, who worked tirelessly with grace, love and discipline helping each actor achieve his or her highest potential as she did also with her family and friends. Her strength and spirit lives on in everyone she touched. She died 
 HAMMER--Rhoda. Beloved grandmother to Stephen and Cheryl, Larry and Susan, Richard and Jennifer, Greg and Jeanine, and Allison Rush. Great grandmother to Rachel, Jessica, Sarah, Jonathan, Jacob, Lindsay, Olivia and Landon. We will miss you very much. HAMMER -- Rhoda (Fried man). Bel
 LEWIN--Joan Strunsky. July 3rd, 1925--May 27th, 2004. Her husband Michael Lewin, daughters Andrea and Meryl, granddaughters Canaan and Marki Lewin-Welsh, son-inlaw Roger Welsh, nieces Jennifer Miller-Antill and Elizabeth Miller and their families, and her extended family and friends will mi
 MULRENIN--Margo Joan, a Director of Citigroup Asset Management, died Thursday of melanoma at her parents' home in Falmouth, MA. She was 39 years old and a resident of New York City. She is survived by her parents, Dudley J. and Linda Nicolle Mulrenin; her brother and sisterin-law, Dudley Ja
 Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer, a self-trained South African naturalist who in 1938 discovered the coelacanth, a species of bony, four-finned fish often described as a living fossil, died on May 17 in East London, South Africa. She was 97. A cause of death was not determined, although s
 CUSHMAN -- Florence Blauvelt, 89, of San Marcos, California, died peacefully on Thursday, May 27, 2004 in Pasadena, California, surrounded by her three loving sons. She was preceded in death by her parents, Louis Frank Blauvelt and Laura Lay Blauvelt; her husband of 59 years, John Clydesdal
 DOONER--Miriam (''Mimi'') Elizabeth Louise. Died June 4, 2004, at Memorial SloanKettering. She was 26. Most recently, a resident of Santa Cruz, California, she held a B.A. degree from American University in Washington, D.C. and had embarked on a career in graphic design. She was the beloved
 FEILER--Lia (Lily). Died on June 4, 2004, in Durham, North Carolina, at the age of 88. Translator, editor, and writer, she was a committed intellectual and a vibrant presence who will be greatly missed. Devoted to her family, particularly her late husband of 68 years, Alfred Feiler, Lily is
 FISHMAN--Sylvia Ellen. Died June 5, 2004. She was the devoted daughter of the late Robert and Lillian Fishman. Sylvia began her long and distinguished career at Hunter College as an Associate Professor in the Department of Health and Physical Education. In 1979 she was appointed Vice Presid
 RAPOPORT--Robyrta J. Age 71 of New York City on June 6, 2004. Beloved wife of Bernard and devoted mother of Michael and his dear wife Deborah and their four lovely children Rebecca, Abigail, Serena and Solomon Jonathan. Robbie had a long and outstanding career as Vice President for Fashion 
 TEMKIN--Tamara (nee Tabatchnick). Passed away quietly on June 5, 2004. She had been married for 60 years to her beloved husband Seymour until his untimely death this past February. She was born in Palestine after her parents had emigrated from Russia. Arriving in the United States at the ag
 ABRAMSON--Ruth, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A pillar of the Mount Sinai community for more that 40 years, Dr. Abramson was a clinician, researcher, administrator, teacher, mentor and a role model to all
 ARANGO--Lorna Robichaux, on Thursday, June 3, 2004. Age 81 years. Preceded in death by her firtst husband, Max (Mickey Radutzky. A native of Raceland and resident of St. Charles Community. Visitation at 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM on Monday, June 7, 2004 at Saint Charles Borromeo Catholic Church. B
 BAROFSKY -- Bernice. On June 5, 2004, of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away at her home after a long illness. Loving wife, mother, grandmother; cherished friend.       
 CATER--Elizabeth. Beloved mother of Melissa Mari Havercroft, devoted grandmother of William and Chloe, daughter of Irene Blenheim Cater, mother-in-law of Norman Havercroft, died on May 28, 2004 in NYC following a long illness. Her publishing career spanned 40 years, where her creative visio
 COOPERMAN--Frances, 81. Of Westport, New York City and Santa Cruz, beloved wife of the late Eugene J. Cooperman, died on June 4, 2004 peacefully of a sudden illness. The oldest of four children, Frances had to help her parents support her family. Later, after raising her own children, she c
 FISHMAN--Sylvia Ellen. Died June 5, 2004. She was the devoted daughter of the late Robert and Lillian Fishman. Sylvia began her long and distinguished career at Hunter College as an Associate Professor in the Department of Health and Physical Education. In 1979 she was appointed Vice Presid
 GALLAGHER -- Mary Ann (nee O'Shea). Wife of 57 years to the late Thomas F. Gallagher, died on June 6 at her home in New Canaan, CT. Her three children were at her side. She graduated from Hunter College in 1939 and worked as a bacteriologist in Walter Reed Army Hospital during WW II. She is
 KAHN--Betty. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Betty Kahn of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., beloved wife of D. Dan Kahn, a member of the ATS National Board of Directors and past Detroit Chapter president. Mrs. Kahn and her husband reached the h
 MARMELSTEIN -- Gladys (Serulneck) of Natick, MA formerly of Brooklyn, NY entered into rest June 6, 2004. Dear mother of Barbara & Susan. Loving sister of Harry Serulneck of Framingham, MA, Kenneth Serulneck of Staten Island, NY & Jacqueline Schoenbloom of NYC. Cherished aunt of many nieces 
 RICHHEIMER--Ivy. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member Ivy Richheimer, and extends heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband Alan, children Todd, Evan, Brett, sister Wendy Jacobs, and brother Lloyd Hersch. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of o
 SCHOONOVER--Shirley W. On June 4, 2004. Writer of novels including ''Mountain of Winter'' and ''Sam's Song,'' as well as O. Henry and Martha Foley Award-winning short stories. A lover of words, music, theater and fashion, her wit and spirit will be missed by friends and family. Mother of so
 SMITHIES--Dolores Cynthia. Beloved mother, daughter, sister, grandmother, and godmother; patron of the arts, and friend to many, died peacefully at her home in Key Biscayne after a long illness. She was 65 years old, and surrounded by her children. Born in Bryn Mawr, PA, and raised in Havan
 STIEFEL--Theresa Biggi. A memorial service for Theresa Biggi Stiefel will be held Wednesday, June 16th at 6:30 PM at St. Francis Xavier Church. Theresa was born July 21, 1921 in Staten Island and died May 25, 2004 at her home in Chelsea. Fiercely devoted to her daughters, Christina and Regi
 GALLAGHER -- Mary Ann (nee O'Shea). Wife of 57 years to the late Thomas F. Gallagher, died on June 6 at her home in New Canaan, CT. Her three children were at her side. She graduated from Hunter College in 1939 and worked as a bacteriologist in Walter Reed Army Hospital during WW II. She is
 RAPOPORT--Robyrta. Dr. C. Warren Olanow and the Dept. of Neurology of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine are saddened by the death of Robyrta Rapoport. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Bernard and to her entire family.       
 ROBBINS--Esther Canell, 92, on June 5, 2004. Predeceased by her husbands Jonas Canell (45 years) and Irving Robbins. Devoted mother of Roger (Elaine) Canell and Andy (Esther) Canell. Loving grandmother of Jay (Sari), Neil (Loren), Dina Cohen (Jason) and Ross. Adoring greatgrandmother of Jor
 SMITHIES -- Dolores. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Dolores Smithies, a valued member of our Board since 1969. Dolores was a tireless advocate and fundraiser for the cause of refugee relief and resettlement. She was especi
 WIGUTOFF--Frances, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Albert Wigutoff and daughter of the late Morris Nasin. Died on June 7, 2004, age 83. Survived by son Edwin (Sharon) and daughter Laura Tarlowe (Anthony), grandchildren Lisa, Jason and the late Dana 
 Irene Manning, a lyric soprano and actress who charmed audiences with her performances in 1940's musical films like ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' ''Shine On, Harvest Moon'' and ''The Desert Song,'' died on May 28 at her home in San Carlos, Calif. She was 91. The cause was congestive hear
 CASTELLOTTI -- Madeline. We deeply mourn the passing of our dearest and beloved friend, Madeline Castellotti on June 7. Madeline's strong work ethic and entrepreneurial leadership in her family business, John's Pizzeria, will be greatly missed by one and all--she was an outstanding business
 COHEN--Marilyn R. On June 8, 2004. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Darren and Andrea. Cherished grandmother of Skyler and Denver. Dear sister of Phylllis Zeldin. Also survived by her cousins Richard and Rochelle Balin and Family. Services Thursday 11:15 am at ''The Riverside'' 76th
 LIPPMAN--Elaine, 94, on June 8, 2004. A joyful and vibrant woman, wife of the late Samuel, sister to the late Marion and Janice, and dearly loved and loving mother of Marcia. She leaves behind such a rich legacy of laughter, friendship, and humanity. Services Friday June 11th at 11:30am at 
 SCHWARZ -- Claire (nee Fernhoff) February 15, 1908. Widow of Dr. Julius. Died June 9, 2004 in Denver. Formerly of Vienna, Austria & Monticello, NY. Survived by her son Marvin (Kathleen Post), grandchildren Ti mothy, Jonathan, Susan & Whitney and loving nieces and nephews.       
 BAER--Marion C., on June 9, 2004. Beloved sister of Joseph (Geraldine), Jane (William) and the late Eleanor (Frank). Devoted aunt of ten nieces and nephews. She also leaves behind many caring friends. Long time employee of B. Altman and Company. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 353
 COHEN--Marilyn R. On June 8, 2004. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Darren and Andrea. Cherished grandmother of Skyler and Denver. Dear sister of Phylllis Zeldin. Also survived by her cousins Richard and Rochelle Balin and Family. Services were held yesterday at ''The Riverside'' 76
 DORFMAN--Janice. Age 93, on June 9, 2004. Beloved mother of Melody Goldberger (Peter) and Whitney Schneider (Ira). Cherished Nonnie to Brittany and Reid. Private service. DORFMAN--Janice. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherish
 HABER--Beck. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her husband, Bernard, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 ABRAMSON--Ruth, M.D. The Department of Medicine faculty of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, friend and mentor, Dr. Ruth Abramson. Dr. Abramson was a graduate of the NYU Medical School, completed her residency at Maimonides and her renal fellowsh
 BAER--Marion C., on June 9, 2004. Beloved sister of Joseph (Geraldine), Jane (William) and the late Eleanor (Frank). Devoted aunt of ten nieces and nephews. She also leaves behind many caring friends. Long time employee of B. Altman and Company. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 353
 GROSSMAN--Selma, beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister, died Tuesday, June 8th, 2004 after a long illness. She leaves her three sons, Harris (with his wife Nicole) of Nedde, France; Norman (Naftali); and Marvin (with his wife Susan); and her two grandchildren, Rena and Jason of Littl
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. Age 79, died suddenly at home on June 11, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Edward B. McMenamin and sister of Barbara Greene and Britton Stitt. A graduate of the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry and Smith College, she was the Headmistress of the Nightingale-Bamford School
 ROOT--Mary Bidwell (Molly). 86, of College Hill, Clinton died peacefully at home with her family on June 10, 2004. She was born in New Haven, Ct on December 13, 1917, the daughter of the late Anna Cabot Almy and Percy Wells Bidwell. Molly graduated from Radcliffe College and received a Mast
 WOLFSOHN--Susanne. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member and beloved mother of our member, Gabriella Antinoph. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 ABRAMSON--Ruth, M.D. The Department of Medicine faculty of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, friend and mentor, Dr. Ruth Abramson. Dr. Abramson was a graduate of the NYU Medical School, completed her residency at Maimonides and her renal fellowsh
 CALIENDO--Edith. On June 10, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Devoted mother of Judy Friedman and mother-in-law of Alfred Friedman. Cherished grandmother of Jason. Funeral services were held Saturday at the Chas. Peter Nagel Funeral Home with burial in St. Raymond's Cemetery. The famil
 EDWARDS--Kathleen Bryan Taylor. Of Greensboro, North Carolina died on June 11, 2004. She was the granddaughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Julian Price of Greensboro, NC and the late Mr. and Mrs. Bart Bryan of Florida, and the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Bryan. A Mass celebrating 
 GUETTEL--June. Died Sunday, June 6. She is survived and loved by her husband, Charles Guettel, their four children and her many friends. Donations to favorite peace organizations and UNICEF.       
 HAASE--Mary Louise Mallery, Ph.D. W. Winfield, NY, May 22. Educator, actress, mother. She had held memberships in SAG, AFTRA and Actors' Equity during early career off-Broadway and in the northeast. She held a lifelong passion for learning, teaching at SUNY Rockland, Adelphi University, Syr
 HABER--Rebecca. On June 9, of Upper Brookville, LI. Beloved wife of Bernard J. Devoted mother of Ronda Wershba and Allyn Haber. Loving mother-in-law of Marty. Dear sister of Evelyn Charney. Adored grandmother of Robin and Steve, Tara and Robert. Cherished greatgrandmother of Heather, Maxwel
 HELLER--Lillian. On June 11, 2004, at age 92. Widow of the late Jacob R. Heller, who predeceased her by 161/2 years. Loving and devoted mother of Hugh (Leslie) Heller and Stephanie (Ralph) Sorley. Adoring grandmother of Peter (Jaime) and Roger Heller, Ryan and Jason Sorley, and Bree (Erik) 
 KOUZEL--Daisy Fornacca. Born in Genoa, Italy, raised in Florence and NYC and recent resident of Santa Monica, CA. Passed away June 8 of complications from Alzheimers disease. Daisy was the beloved wife of the late Alfred Kouzel, mother of Miriam and Margarita and of son-inlaw Stephen, grand
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. Age 79, died suddenly at home on June 11, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Edward B. McMenamin and sister of Barbara Greene and Britton Stitt. A graduate of the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry and Smith College, she was the Headmistress of the Nightingale-Bamford School
 MILLIGAN -- Theresa. Be loved mother of Jacqueline Louise and adored grandmother of Bette Theresa Fei, died on June 7th, 2004. She dedicated the majority of her life in raising her daughter to meet every challenge with courage and love. The family would be grateful for contributions in Ther
 THOMPSON -- John Frede rick. On June 10, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Kathryn M. Devoted father of Anne Thompson Vaughan and her husband Stuart Vaughan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, June 17, 7-9 pm. Service Friday, June 18, 1 pm, at
 HAASE--Mary Louise Mallery, Ph.D. W. Winfield, NY, May 22. Educator, actress, mother. She had held memberships in SAG, AFTRA and Actors' Equity during early career off-Broadway and in the northeast. She held a lifelong passion for learning, teaching at SUNY Rockland, Adelphi University, Syr
 MARX--Erna (Kahn), passed away peacefully in her sleep early Sunday morning, June 13, 2004. Erna was the widow of the late Dr. Henry Marx (an accountant and professor). Dr. and Mrs. Marx escaped Germany during the Holocaust and came to New York. She remained a New York City resident until s
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. Age 79, died suddenly at home on June 11, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Edward B. McMenamin and sister of Barbara Greene and Britton Stitt. A graduate of the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry and Smith College, she was the Headmistress of the Nightingale-Bamford School
 ZAHN--Cele. (nee Bronfman). 102, of NYC, died peacefully at home, on May 4th. Her beloved husband Phillip Zahn, to whom she was blissfully married for 61 yrs, predeaceased her in 1985. Born August 2, 1901 and the last survivor of three sisters and a brother, she was an unassuming renaissanc
 Joan Stitt McMenamin, who retired in 1992 after 21 years as head of the Nightingale-Bamford School, a college preparatory school for girls, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 79. Her death was announced by the school, where she became the fifth
 ARLEN--Arleta of Manhattan, NY on June 13, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Isadore and Becky Altman. Beloved sister, aunt and friend. Survived by her sister Lillian Winkel, 3 nephews and one niece. Ms. Arlen was a dancer for Billy Rose and performed in many shows with The Ed Carrol dance
 BRESLIN -- Rosemary. She was the best we had. Rosemary Breslin died at 47 yesterday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. She was a writer and lived on blood transfusions for the last 14 years. In the last six years, she had transfusions every 12 days. She fought with raw and endless courage a
 GLASGOW--Carlene. It is with profound sadness that Thesco Benefits, LLC mourns the loss of its highly valued colleague and friend, Carlene Glasgow. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Carlene's family and friends. She will be greatly missed.       
 GOTESMAN--Nathan. We offer our condolences to Toby Schneier and her entire family upon the loss of her father Nathan Gotesman, outstanding personality within the Jewish community and cousin to our Founder S. Daniel Abraham. As a friend of our congregational family, we hope that Toby's sorro
 GROSS--Aasta. Age 70, died suddenly on Saturday, June 12, 2004. She was the beloved wife of Donald, mother of Gary and Eric and grandmother of Amanda, Austin and Spencer. Along with her extended family, both in Norway and here, we all mourn the passing of a true ''lover of life.'' All who h
 KASPER -- Carol. Beloved mother, daughter, grandmother, sister, mother-in-law & good friend. Her suffering has ended and she is now in peace. Donations may be made to the American Cancer Society. Services Tuesday, 10AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 N. Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. 
 LEVENTHAL -- Bessie, on June 13, 2004. Bessie Leventhal, devoted daughter of the late Yetta and Philip Levine; loving wife of the late Allan Leventhal; and adoring mother of the late Rochelle Moss and Madelon Rand. Mrs. Leventhal, 93, was the sister of the late Morris Levine, the late Harry
 MARTIN--Helen B. Helen Barker Martin, wife of 54 years to the late John M. Martin, died on June 9, 2004, age 94, in Bloomfield, CT. Mother of John T., deceased, William R.H. of Fair Haven, NJ and Peter B. of Summit, NJ. She is also survived by seven grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
 MARX--Erna. The National Officers, Board of Directors and Chapter members of ARMDI-American Red Magen David for Israel record with profound sorrow the passing of Erna Marx, generous benefactor and founder and past President of the ARMDI Emanuel Celler Chapter for more than three decades. He
 McMENAMIN--Joan Stitt. The family of Joan Stitt McMenamin invites you to a memorial service in her honor, Monday, June 21, 2004 at St. James' Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue at 71st St at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations to the NightingaleBamford School or the Memorial Sloan-Ketter
 MULRY -- Kathleen Claire. (nee Rahilly). On June 13, 2004. Retired teacher NYC Board of Education. Beloved wife of the late Thomas M. Loving mother of Mary Virginia (Fred) Lofstedt, Thomas M. (Joan) Mulry, Christine, Julie (Michael) Kaen, Janine (Thomas) Corona, Claire Madonna and William (
 UNGER--Edith (nee Protter). Beloved wife of the late Sidney B. Unger, passed away quietly on June 14, 2004 at her home in Queens, NY. Devoted daughter of Helena and Ignaz Protter, loving sister of Eric Protter, cherished mother of the late Philip S. Unger, and Carol Wolfson. Adoring grandmo
 Rosemary Breslin, a journalist and screenwriter who wrote a piquant memoir about her own stubbornly undiagnosable illness, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 47. The cause was cardiac and renal failure associated with a blood disorder, family memb
 BRESLIN -- Rosemary. To quote our favorite columnist: ''We are sorry for your troubles.'' Fathers and daughters have very special relationships. Rosemary Breslin was her father's daughter. Our hearts are with Ronnie, our beloved colleague; Jimmy, our most contrarian TV guest; Tony, the love
 GUADAGNO--Rose, June 14, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Charles Guadagno. Loving mother of Therese and her son-in-law David Megley. Proud grandmother of Catherine Rose Megley. Rose was President of the Resident's Council at Mary Manning Walsh for several years. In her memory donation
 GUBERNIKOFF -- Judith. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, N.Y., mourns the passing of our beloved member, Judith Gubernikoff. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband George, children Matthew, Alexander and Sam, and her parents Phyllis and Robert Smith. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldi
 KLINK--Sandra Scott. Was lost to us after a long illness on June 10, 2004. Beloved mother of Kirsten Morehouse and Trina Morehouse of NYC. Cherished grandmother of Theodora Lindsay Scott Smith, wife of Fredric J. Klink. Editor at New York Magazine and King Features Syndicate. She was loved 
 KNOBLOCH--Jeanette P., of Greenwich, on Sunday, June 13, 2004. Wife of the late CEO of R.W. Greef Inc. Edward Knobloch Jr. she is survived by her daughters Marguerite Pandelogolou of Virginia Beach, and Nancy Isacsson of Stamford, a stepson Thomas Knobloch of Washington Crossing, PA., nine 
 LEVENTHAL--Bessie. The Board of Trustees of The ALS Association National Office and Greater New York Chapter are deeply saddened by the loss of a good friend, Bessie Leventhal. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her daughter, Madelon Rand, her son-in-law Larry Rand, her grandchildren Amy
 LINDSAY--Shirley Blois died on May 1 in Jacksonville. From 1976 to 1981, she was Director of The Diller-Quaile School of Music. She is survived by her husband James Lindsay; children Susan, Ken, Pippi; six grandchildren; and one great grandchild. DillerQuaile extends its sympathy and will h
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. The Directors of The Clark Foundation note with profound sorrow the passing of Joan Stitt McMenamin, a beloved and esteemed educator who was a member of our Board of Directors for the past 25 years. Her passion in advocating opportunity for the education and trainin
 SHAPIRO--Ida, 93, formerly of Beechhurst, Queens. Died on June 13. A graduate of Hunter College, she retired in 1976 after a career as teacher and administrator at Bayside High School and Martin Van Buren High School. Pre-deceased by husband Irwin D. Shapiro, she is survived by sons Jonatha
 SHUTE--Katherine Van Varick, age 93, on June 11, 2004 in Georgetown, CT. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin R. Shute. Graduate of Smith College and Columbia Law School. Survived by her children, Benjamin, Jr. and Mary S. Ford; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral Services
 BENDIX--Olga Marie, age 91 years, of Raritan Township, NJ, died on Tuesday, June 15, 2004. Formerly a long time resident of Hackensack and Teaneck, NJ, Ms. Bendix worked for many years at the Bank of New York in Manhattan. In 1964 she became an Assistant Vice President, and in 1974 she was 
 BRESLIN -- Rosemary. We are devastated over the loss of our dear and cherished friend Rosemary Breslin. Her optimism and courage in the face of unspeakable odds was an inspiration to all who were privileged to know her. Her kindness and warmth permeated all of her relationships and her char
 KEMPTON--Elizabeth E. On June 15, 2004, our dear friend passed away at age 94. She will be missed by all who knew her and remembered for her humanity, civic work and friendship. With eternal love.       
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. The trustees, faculty, and staff of Poly Prep Country Day School mourn the passing of Joan Stitt McMenamin, headmistress emerita of Nightingale-Bamford School, friend to Poly Prep, and visionary educator. We extend our condolences to her brother, her sister, and to 
 SAND--Anne. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. Devoted mother of Sue (Tom Goldberger) Sand and Neil (Dana Devon) Sand. Adored and loving grandmother of Jamie, Gabby, Perri, Will and Anna. Dear aunt of seven nephews. Services Friday, June 18, 2004, 10 AM at the Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,
 SHUTE--Katherine Van Varick, age 93, on June 11, 2004 in Georgetown, CT. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin R. Shute. Graduate of Smith College and Columbia Law School. Survived by her children, Benjamin, Jr. and Mary S. Ford; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral Services
 CHAPIN--Elizabeth Steinway. It's 11 years since you left us. Simeon was married June 12th, the first grandchild to wed. Willa, busy with her career; Anika to be a senior at Vassar; Zoe a sophomore at CT College; Megan a sophomore at Bucknell. Anna, Tess and Moses busy in their schools. You 
 BECKER--Joyce E. (nee Stern). On June 17th, 2004. Devoted mother, grandmother and attorney. Survived by husband Jacob, daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra, sons-in-law David Harris and Jonathan Berger and five loving grandchildren. Interment Friday, June 18th, 2004 will be private. Contribut
 KAUFMAN -- Gladys, 93, passed away June 16, 2004. Cherished wife of the late Irving Kaufman (former partner of Salomon Bros.), beloved mother of Maggie Kaufman Smith and Joyce Kaufman (Allen Miller) and cherished grandmother of Eben, Ethan, Laurel and Noah. As a young woman she was a buyer 
 McMENAMIN -- Joan Stitt. The family of Joan Stitt McMenamin invites you to a Memorial Service in her honor Monday, June 21, 2004 at St. James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Ave at 71 St. at 10am. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Nightingale-Bamford School or the Memorial-Sloan
 SAND--Anne. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. Devoted mother of Sue (Tom Goldberger) Sand and Neil (Dana Devon) Sand. Adored and loving grandmother of Jamie, Gabby, Perri, Will and Anna. Dear aunt of seven nephews. Services Friday, June 18, 2004, 10 AM at the Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,
 BECKER--Joyce E. (nee Stern). On June 17th, 2004. Devoted mother, grandmother and attorney. Survived by husband Jacob, daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra, sons-in-law David Harris and Jonathan Berger and five loving grandchildren. Interment Friday, June 18th, 2004 will be private. Contribut
 JACOBS -- Constance (nee Mitler) in Lenox, MA on June 17, 2004. Wife of the late Ralph K. Jacobs. Loving mother to Gail Jacobs Gordon of Great Neck, NY and Lea Jacobs Kuvinka of Jackson Hole, WY. Also survived by her beloved four grandchildren and two sons-in-law.       
 SCHERMERHORN -- Fran coise Gouvernet. On June 9, 2004 in Cannes, France. Wife of the late Howard F. Schermerhorn. She is survived by her stepson, David K. Schermerhorn, of Deer Harbor, WA. Donations may be made to the Diabetes Association.       
 SENDAR--Carol Elaine. 64, June 18, 2004. Senior attorney New York State Attorney General's Office. Graduate of Vassar College and NYU Law School. Beloved daughter of Sylvia Sendar and brother of Michael Sendar. Caring aunt to Shawn and Jake Sendar. Cherished friend to many for her wise coun
 Emma Buck, who ran a pre-Civil War family farm in Illinois that remained virtually unchanged into the 21st century, died on June 5 on the sleigh bed with handmade ticking she had slept in for 98 years, in the log cabin built by her great-uncle, a German immigrant, in 1849. She was 1
 BECKER--Joyce E. (nee Stern). On June 17th, 2004. Devoted mother, grandmother and attorney. Survived by husband Jacob, daughters Robin, Patrice and Debra, sons-in-law David Harris and Jonathan Berger and five loving grandchildren. Interment Friday, June 18th, 2004 will be private. Contribut
 DITZEL--Aino Esther (nee Matilainen). On June 15, 2004, age 93, in Scottsdale, AZ. Beloved wife of the late August. Dear mother of Wendl (Barry) Kornfeld of Manhattan and Linda (William) Dettelback of Scottsdale. She was unique.       
 ELLIOTT--Dolores Dengel, age 70, of Copake, NY, died peacefully at home June 12, 2004. Born in New York City, the daughter of Harry J. and Althea (Meeker) Dengel, Mrs. Elliott was a resident of White Plains, NY from 1937 to 1993. She received a B.S. in business administration from Good Coun
 GOLOMB--Ruby, on June 19, 2004, in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Robert (Judith). Cherished and proud grandmother of Robin Freedman (David) and Lisa Michael (Jeffrey). Adored and loving great-grandmother of Jessica and Rachel Freedman and Amanda Michael. Dev
 GREIFFENHAGEN--Julia. In her 96th year. Long time resident of Kew Gardens. Beloved wife of the late Rudi. Loving mother of Marion and Steven Leber. Cherished Nana of Michelle and Michael Roberts, Jill and Mark Weiss, and Jordan and Lainie Leber. Great-grandmother of Matthew, Jack, Dani and 
 HOLDERNESS--Zoe Thorne, who resided in Bedford Village, NY, most of her life, died on June 7th, 2004, in Portland, Oregon, of emphysema. Zoe Carrington Thorne (Toni to her friends) was born in New York City on July 29, 1919, to John Norrish Thorne and Zoe Hannah Thorne. She attended Benning
 JACOBS -- Constance (nee Mitler) in Lenox, MA on June 17, 2004. Wife of the late Ralph K. Jacobs. Loving mother to Gail Jacobs Gordon of Great Neck, NY and Lea Jacobs Kuvinka of Jackson Hole, WY. Also survived by her beloved four grandchildren and two sons-in-law.       
 KEMPTON--Elizabeth E. The Women's City Club of New York mourns the passing of our beloved Life Member and Honorary Director Elizabeth E. Kempton who joined us in 1966. Her expertise in social policy combined with her quiet, thoughtful approach to people and issues shaped our public policy i
 KORNBERG--Selma Borden. June 9, 1913, to June 18, 2004. Partner and wife of the late Peter Kornberg. Mother of Michael Borden (Raymond Klein) and Alan William. Friend and mentor to many. Funeral services private. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Second Seder Fund of Temple Em
 LEW--Grace Elizabeth Li-En passed peacefully to Eternal Life, Sunday, May 30th, 2004. Born Feb. 14th, 1924 in Peking, China to Rev. Dr. Timothy Ting-Fang Lew, China's foremost Christian theologian (Dean of Theology, Prof. of Psych., Yenching University), & Dr. Katherine Y.T. Lew, (Dean of W
 MEEHAN--Mother Mary Bernadette, O.P. At Rosary Hill Home in Hawthorne, NY, on June 18, 2004. Born in Philadelphia, PA, Mother made her first Profession on September 14, 1932 and was assigned to Rosary Hill Home in Hawthorne. On March 2, 1958 she was appointed Superior of Rosary Hill Home. M
 MITCHELL--Alice Underhill, of East Williston, LI, on June 17, 2004 in her 103rd year. Beloved wife of the late Myron C. Loving mother of Samuel U. Dear aunt of Janet M. Wolbrink, William T. Bailey, Morley L. Smith, Jr., Phebe Alice Apgar, the late Jason M. Bailey and the late M. Esther Boga
 PERRY--Margaret C., 93, died June 6th in Atlanta, GA. She resided in NYC for over 50 years. Ms. Perry was a travel writer and author of crafts books. She was a contributing editor of Early American Life magazine, Home Garden magazine and Reader's Digest travel books. A private memorial serv
 RAPAPORT -- Pauline (nee Busky). Age 89, on June 17, 2004. Wife of the late Monroe Rapaport. Survived by her children, Joseph Rapaport of Manhattan and Suzy Naylor of Roberts Creek, British Columbia. Also survived by daughter-in-law Bonnie Rapaport and son-in-law Frank Henning. In addition,
 SCHERMERHORN -- Fran coise Gouvernet. On June 9, 2004 in Cannes, France. Wife of the late Howard F. Schermerhorn. She is survived by her stepson, David K. Schermerhorn, of Deer Harbor, WA. Donations may be made to the Diabetes Association.       
 SCHULTZE--Alice. On June 18, 2004. Beloved mother of Professor Gary Schultze and grandmother of Emily Grace, Philip Aaron and Bambi. Also survived by sister Florence. A uniquely beautiful human being who brought love into the hearts of all who knew her, whose greatest joy was giving to thos
 SHUB--Elizabeth (nee Charney). Died peacefully at home on Friday, June 18, 2004. Beloved sister of the late Dr. William Charney, aunt of Miriam Charney and Didi Charney, great-aunt of Evan Charney Maltby and Jacob William Charney-Beck. Award-winning editor, author and translator of numerous
 STERNAU--Phyllis M. (nee Mayer), died peacefully on June 12, 2004 at her home in Maryland, at the age of 93. Now she is with her adored husband, Howard, and much loved son, Philip, both of whom pre-deceased her. Phyllis is survived by her beloved daughter Sally S. Shubin, son-in-law Elliot 
 STUDLEY--Louise, beloved wife of the late Lester, devoted mother and best friend of Gary (Marilyn) and Donald (Shelly), cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be sorely missed by her loving family.       
 TANNER--Sally (nee Levrant). On Friday, June 18, 2004. Best friend and wife for 56 years of Joseph Edward Tanner. Cherished mother of Lewis and Ellen, joyous grandmother of Elias and Gabriel, devoted sister of Sheila, loving mother-in-law of Mark and Linda. Contributions in her memory to Ho
 DETWILER--Grace Gallagher. Age 2. Beloved daughter of Lisa and William Detwiler of Brooklyn, NY, died early June 18, at Children's Hospital due to complications following a heart transplant in February, 2004. In addition to her parents, Grace is survived by her sister Charlotte and brother 
 FRANK--Ilse. 79. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Known and loved for her many passions: hiking mountains, strong opinions, and family. Loyal friend, devoted New Yorker, committed to peace. Survived by husband Leopold (''Many''), sons David (Catherine) & Jeffrey (Kristin), & three gran
 HINDS--Dr. Vira C. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers notes with deep regret the passing of Dr. Vira C. Hinds, who faithfully served on the Board 25 years. Dr. Hinds was the wife of Sydney A. Hinds who is also a member of the Board. Dr. Hinds was Chairperson of the Personnel Committee and s
 HUPPUCH--Helen E. Age 88. Of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, formerly Salem, Cross River, and Peekskill. Died June 18, 2004. Daughter of William and Helen Lillian (Warner) McMahan of Flora, IL, she attended Radcliffe College, where she met her late beloved husband of 65 years, Winfield A. Huppuch II,
 KLEIMAN--Micheline. Age 81. On June 17, 2004, at her home in Pompano, FL. Beloved wife of the late A. Harry Kleiman, M.D. Survived by children Dena Kleiman, Dr. Sam Kleiman, Max Kleiman and Marilyn Edwards, as well as six grandchildren, a daughter-in-law and two sons-inlaw. Burial Tuesday, 
 SHUB--Elizabeth (nee Charney). Died peacefully at home on Friday, June 18, 2004. Beloved sister of the late Dr. William Charney, aunt of Miriam Charney and Didi Charney, great-aunt of Evan Charney Maltby and Jacob William Charney-Beck. Award-winning editor, author and translator of numerous
 STASI--Debra. Our dear, courageous friend Debra is gone. She will live on in our hearts and spirit until will we meet again. With love forever, the girls Leslie and Beth Carolee and Barbara Elaine and Marsha       
 STERNAU--Phyllis M. (nee Mayer), died peacefully on June 12, 2004 at her home in Maryland, at the age of 93. Now she is with her adored husband, Howard, and much loved son, Philip, both of whom pre-deceased her. Phyllis is survived by her beloved daughter Sally S. Shubin, son-in-law Elliot 
 TALBOT--Mildred A. 89, wife of Ambassador Phillips Talbot, mother of Susan Talbot Jacox of Columbus, OH, and Nancy Talbot of Washington, DC, grandmother of David Franklin Jacox of Kenyon College. She was an elder of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church and has served on the Visiting Commi
 Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Her death was ann
 ANTLER--Laura Snow, 77, died June 14, 2004. She was a loving, devoted wife, mother, grandmother, kin to extended family and friend. Her demise is a great loss, and we miss her. The memorial service is private. A memorial gift may be made to Brooklyn Botanic Garden.       
 LAT--Charlene Everette Garcia, 24, of New York City and Saddle River, NJ, entered into eternal rest on Friday, June 18, 2004. Charlene was a 1997 graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy, where she was an early inductee to the Cum Laude Society, and a 2001 graduate of Brown University, where she
 SCHNEIDERMAN -- Miriam. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted sister of the late Benjamin and Elihu Brillson. Adored mother of Arthur, Steven, Paul, Judy, Helaine, and Bette. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother of Susan, Adam, David, Sheri, Debra, Jonathan, Stuart, Sheila, Andrew
 SHUB--Elizabeth (nee Charney). Died peacefully at home on Friday, June 18, 2004. Beloved sister of the late Dr. William Charney, aunt of Miriam Charney and Didi Charney, great-aunt of Evan Charney Maltby and Jacob William Charney-Beck. Award-winning editor, author and translator of numerous
 TALBOT--Mildred A. Reading Reform Foundation of New York records with profound sadness the death of our longtime Board Member, Mildred A. Talbot. We relied on her pithy and sensible advice, always delivered with good humor. We have lost a wise counselor and friend.       
 BERNARDO--Lillian (Brown), 88, on June 21, 2004. Deeply loved wife of Joseph, mother of Steven (Leslie), Sheldon (Carol), grandmother of Ian, sister of Dora Weinberg, sister-in-law, aunt, friend. Lil embraced life with open arms. She lived each moment to the fullest--whether as teacher to t
 KANTROWITZ -- Deborah (nee Starr) of Fort Lee, NJ and Palm Beach, Fla died on Monday, June 21, 2004, after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved husband, S. Edward Kantrowitz: children Pam & Matt Gladstein, Lori & Chuck Ludmer, Jamie & Mark Lorberbaum; grandchildren, Nicole, Barry,
 MILLER--Sondra. Died at home June 20. She is survived by her husband William Arp, son Christopher, stepdaughter Rachel Ramstad. She is also survived by her beloved sister Helene Miller, niece Reyna Rosenshein, and brother-in-law Thomas Arp. A native of Brooklyn, she attended Erasmus Hall Hi
 ROBINSON--Josephine. RRE Ventures notes with great sadness the passing of Josephine Robinson, Dear Mother of Co-Founding Partner Jim Robinson III and Dear Grandmother of Co-Founding Partner Jim Robinson IV. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her Daughters, Mrs. Frances Robinson Hub
 TENENBAUM -- Susan. On June 21, 2004. Beloved wife of Mircea, devoted mother of Rodica and Radu, and mother-in-law of Steven Dreisin, and Kathryn Hammer. Cherished grandmother of Alexandra, Rafi, and Philip. Memorial service Thursday 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam
 YOUNG--Diane. Died on June 22, 2004. Beloved wife of Irwin. Devoted mother of Nancy Young, M.D. and Linda Young and mother-in-law of Mitch Marinello. Cherished grandmother of Samantha, Lindsey and Michelle. Loving sister of Arthur Nalven. She was an officer and director of Du Art Film and V
 ZAVIN--Theodora, 82, on June 21, 2004, wife of the late Benjamin Zavin. She will be greatly missed by her surviving sons, Jonathan and Joshua, her daughters-inlaw Bernadette and Joanne, her grandchildren, Kate, Nathaniel, and Ryan, her sister-in-law, Fredda, and by a world of people, in and
 Sonya Haddad, who did opera translations for the Metropolitan's seat-back subtitling system, died on June 15 in the Bronx. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of cancer, said her sister, Barbara Haddad Ryan. Fluent in German, Italian and French, Ms
 BENARDO--Lillian (Brown), 88, on June 21, 2004. Deeply loved wife of Joseph, mother of Steven (Leslie), Sheldon (Carol), grandmother of Ian, sister of Dora Weinberg, sister-in-law, aunt, friend. Lil embraced life with open arms. She lived each moment to the fullest--whether as teacher to th
 HERMAN--Rose. Died June 22nd, 2004 in Chevy Chase, MD. Rose gave unconditionally to her late husband, Dave, her cherished mother, Helen, and her sons, Mark and Jerry. Proud grandmother of Amanda, Erika, Dana and David. Loving mother-inlaw and devoted sister of Villiam and the late Vojtech. 
 JOSKOW--Margaret Karen. On June 21, after a brave struggle with bladder cancer at the age of 53. Beloved wife of Rafael Yglesias and mother of Matthew and Nicholas, cherished daughter of Jules and Charlotte Joskow and sister of Paul and Barbara, Andrew and Lisa. Services will be held on Thu
 KAPLON--Sally, on June 22, 2004. Adored wife of Martin through 60 wonderful years. Beloved mother and friend to Karen and Jon. Cherished ''Madre'' to Greg, Analeigh and Alison. With her unique, irrepressible spirit, that rarest blend of charm, glamour and wisdom, all whom she touched will m
 KATZ--Patti M. Beloved wife of Steven J. Katz, M.D. Beloved mother of Haley, Zoe and Max. Dearest daughter of the late Fred and Helen Marek. Loving daughter-inlaw to Herbert and Joan Katz. Loving sister to Barry and Kim Marek. Caring sister-inlaw to Bruce and Helene Katz. Dearest aunt to Na
 ROBINSON--Josephine. We mourn with our friends, Jim Robinson III and Jim Robinson IV, the passing of Josephine Robinson. We extend our sincerest condolences to them, their wives, Linda and Katie, Mrs. Frances Robinson Huber and Mrs. Josephine Robinson Westervelt, her 11 grandchildren and te
 YOUNG--Diane. Died on June 22, 2004. Beloved wife of Irwin. Devoted mother of Nancy Young, M.D. and Linda Young and mother-in-law of Mitch Marinello. Cherished grandmother of Samantha, Lindsey and Michelle. Loving sister of Arthur Nalven. She was an officer and director of Du Art Film and V
 Lillian Seril, who as landlord of a grand Upper West Side apartment building, the Belnord, became the central figure in one of New York City's longest rent strikes, died on Monday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. She was 95 and had been living as a tenant at the building she o
 ELLINS--Ruth R. On June 23rd, 2004, shortly after celebrating her 100th birthday with family and friends. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Ellins. Survived by three loving, devoted nieces, Adrienne Doniger, Frances Gorfinkle and Sue Weiland and many grand and great grand-nieces and nephews. 
 GRUDER--Vivian. A woman before her time, who experienced the world as few did. Peacefully, after a long fulfilling life. Dedicated executive assistant to Harry Brandt, president of Brandt Theaters. Dear sister of Ruth, Herman and the late Beatrice, Leon and Annette. Loving and devoted aunt 
 JOSKOW--Margaret Karen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Margaret Karen Joskow, beloved daughter of Jules and Charlotte Joskow, passionate leaders dedicated to strengthening Jewish life in New York and abroad. We extend our deepe
 KAPLON--Sally, on June 22, 2004. Adored wife of Martin through 60 wonderful years. Beloved mother and friend to Karen and Jon. Cherished ''Madre'' to Greg, Analeigh and Alison. With her unique, irrepressible spirit, that rarest blend of charm, glamour and wisdom, all whom she touched will m
 ROBINSON--Josephine Crawford. 92, of Atlanta, Ga., died Monday, June 21, 2004 at her summer home in Roaring Gap, N.C. after a brief illness. Her husband James Dixon Robinson, Jr., former Chairman of the Board of the First National Bank of Atlanta, preceded her in death. Mrs. Robinson is sur
 THOMAS--Doris Lang. Died June 22nd, 2004. She will be missed by her godchildren-David Hurvitz, Martha Klein, Karen and John Shea (Zachary and Molly)--and her many friends and family. Always independent, a pioneer and a role model, she was passionate about her work, her interests, and the pe
 BERLIN--Doris. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel, devoted mother of Michael and Patty, adoring grandmother of Alexander, passed away on June 15, 2004 at the age of 82. Doris was a woman ahead of her time, who lived her life to the fullest. She loved and will forever be loved by her family in
 GAINES--Sophie (nee Golden). Of Brooklyn, NY, Hewlett, LI and Pompano Beach, FL on June 25 of ovarian cancer at age 84. Loving and loved wife of Michael (deceased). Mother of Barbara and Ira. Grandmother of Andrew. Mother-in-law of Aari. She will be missed by all those whose lives she touch
 GRUDER--Vivian. A woman before her time, who experienced the world as few did. Peacefully, after a long fulfilling life. Dedicated executive assistant to Harry Brandt, president of Brandt Theaters. Dear sister of Ruth, Herman and the late Beatrice, Leon and Annette. Loving and devoted aunt 
 LURIE--Olga Rubinow. On June 24, 2004, at the age of 97. A child psychologist and specialist in the emotional health of children. Beloved wife for 66 years of Walter A. Lurie; mother of Ruth Lurie Kozodoy and the late Michael Rubinow Lurie; grandmother of Sarah (and Vitali) Penso, Peter Koz
 MAGUIRE--Mary (Maureen). Native of County Cavan, Ireland, lived in Bronx, NY past 40 years. Loving wife of Michael. Beloved sister, wife, mother, grandmother. Her beauty cannot be surpassed.       
 MILLER--Rose P. In loving memory of our mother and grandmother who had a long caring life, widow of Harry Miller, died peacefully at her home at the age of 95. Mourned by her loving family who will miss her greatly. Funeral: Temple Israel, Scranton, PA., Sunday 11AM. Contributions to Temple
 OTTLEY--Mabel J.F. Of Manhattan, beloved wife of the late Peter Ottley and devout Catholic, on June 24, 2004 at the age of ninety-eight. Born on December 24, 1905, Mabel worked in the millinery department at Bloomingdales, in Manhattan, until she was eighty years old. Visiting Sunday 2-5 at
 BERLIN--Doris. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel, devoted mother of Michael and Patty, adoring grandmother of Alexander, passed away on June 15, 2004 at the age of 82. Doris was a woman ahead of her time, who lived her life to the fullest. She loved and will forever be loved by her family in
 BLOOM--Shirley (nee Okon). 73 years young on June 19, 2004. Vivacious, brave and multi-talented, eager to learn and to teach, she embraced life fully and often ''pushed the envelope''. Survived by husband Bob, children Wendy and Paul, daughter-in-law Michele and the most recent delights of 
 DeLAY--Nellis. The entire School for Strings family mourns the death on May 27, just short of her 85th birthday, of Nellis DeLay, a longtime member of the School's cello and chamber music faculties. Preceded in death by her husband Clifford Harvuot, for many years a principal singer with th
 FARMER--Carol. World renowned futurist, consumer trend analyst, captivating keynote speaker and strategic advisor to the Fortune 50 on issues of marketing and positioning. Carol died, unexpectedly, of a massive stroke on June 19, 2004, in Delray Beach, Florida, while visiting from her home,
 GAYLOR -- Sylvia (Katz). June 24, 2004 in Bristol, TN. Survived by her brother George Katz. Funeral service today in Tennessee.       
 GRAY--Mab (nee Salinger), 69, of Greenwich Village died June 14, of complications of breast cancer. Graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Syracuse University and had a long career in book publicity. Immediate survivors include her husband Herb Dienstag and sisters Ann Salinger and Lucy Warner. Her 
 LURIE--Olga Rubinow. On June 24, 2004, at the age of 97. A child psychologist and specialist in the emotional health of children. Beloved wife for 66 years of Walter A. Lurie; mother of Ruth Lurie Kozodoy and the late Michael Rubinow Lurie; grandmother of Sarah (and Vitali) Penso, Peter Koz
 MAGUIRE--Mary (Maureen). Native of County Cavan, Ireland, lived in Bronx, NY past 40 years. Loving wife of Michael. Beloved sister, wife, mother, grandmother. Her beauty cannot be surpassed.       
 MILLER--Rose P. In loving memory of our mother and grandmother who had a long caring life, widow of Harry Miller, died peacefully at her home at the age of 95. Mourned by her loving family who will miss her greatly. Funeral: Temple Israel, Scranton, PA., Sunday 11AM. Contributions to Temple
 OPPENS--Edith, died June 24 at her home in New York City. A passionate musician and dedicated piano teacher, she was for many years on the faculty of the Mannes College of Music, as well as at the Aspen Music Festival and School. She also had numerous wonderful private students. She was pre
 POTTISH--Ruth, of New York City, died peacefully on the afternoon of June 24. She is survived by her husband Morris, her son and daughterin-law Peter and Patricia and many loving nieces, nephews, step - children and grandchildren. Services will be held Sunday, June 27, 6PM at ''The Riversid
 ROBINSON--Josephine Crawford. 92, of Atlanta, Ga., died Monday, June 21, 2004 at her summer home in Roaring Gap, N.C. after a brief illness. Her husband James Dixon Robinson, Jr., former Chairman of the Board of the First National Bank of Atlanta, preceded her in death. Mrs. Robinson is sur
 SETCHIM--Marion. June 25, in Greenwich, CT, age 50. Wife of David Setchim. Mother of three sons, James, Alexander and Edward. Also survived by her parents, Joseph and Ellen Lestrange Grundy; three brothers, Gregory, Colin and Graham Grundy; and a sister Debbie Miller. Mass of Christian Buri
 SPARLING--Edna Ritter (age 94) of Miami, Florida, wife of Francis Sparling (deceased). Born April 4, 1910, in Lower Saucon, PA. A graduate of Goucher College, she had been an editor and a national fund-raiser, YWCA of the USA, New York. Funeral services were held June 19 in Lower Saucon, PA
 SWARTZMAN--Edna (Tockman) in her 98th year, died June 19, 2004. Adored wife of the late Harry. Beloved mother of Beth (the late Benjamin) Schatman and Linda (Herbert) Konowitz. Dear Grammy of Jill (Bill) Manny, Michael (Roz) Schatman, Karen (Fred) Benton, Cindy Konowitz, and Jeffrey (Sujita
 TESLER--Gertrude. Peacefully, at age 86, on June 18, 2004. Beloved wife of Jules, loving mother of Michael, Martin and Bill, devoted grandmother of Francine, Serena, Deanna, Joseph and John. Ceremony was private. We will miss her dearly.       
 THOMAS--Doris Lang. Died June 22nd, 2004. She will be missed by her godchildren-David Hurvitz, Martha Klein, Karen and John Shea (Zachary and Molly)--and her many friends and family. Always independent, a pioneer and a role model, she was passionate about her work, her interests, and the pe
 Doris Dowling, who made an impression as a husky-voiced character actress in the film classics ''The Lost Weekend,'' ''The Blue Dahlia'' and ''Bitter Rice,'' died on June 18 in Los Angeles. She was 81. Her death was announced by Lee Redmond, a family friend. Ms. Dowling was 
 ALCOTT--Rica. Died peacefully in her sleep at home on June 27, 2004, at age 97. She was the beloved wife of the late Fred Alcott for 69 years. Devoted mother of Mimi Levine of Chicago, and Virginia Sadock of NYC. Loving grandmother of David, Richard, Michael, James and Victoria, and great-g
 BECKER--Dorothy Goldstein. Died June 27, 2004, at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Sidney B. Becker for 57 years. Devoted mother of Daniel, William and David. Loving grandmother of Sarah and Samuel; Anne, James and Leslie; Michael, Ruth, Benjamin, Rachel and Jordan; and a newborn great - gr
 POTTISH--Ruth. Her neighbors in the Kenilworth Apartments mourn the loss of Ruth Pottish, and extend to Morris and family their sincere condolences.       
 ROSOFF--Thelma (Tiny). Of New York, NY. Wife of the late Morris Rosoff. Beloved mother of Paula Grossman of New York. Dear grandmother of Amy Breiger and Julie Grossman. Sister of the late Eve Winston. She and her husband were partners in their law firm, Rosoff and Rosoff. Tiny was a reside
 SPEVACK -- Barbara (nee Gould). At 79. Longtime resident of Huntington, NY. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Sue Graze and Neal (Roseann). Devoted sister of Leonard Gould (Emma). Dear sister-in-law of Ruth Kobren (Abraham). Cherished grandmother of Johanna, Alex, Jesse, Mol
 Naomi Shemer, an Israeli poet and a prolific composer whose popular songs include ''Jerusalem of Gold,'' which became interwoven with the culture of the Jewish state, died on Saturday at a Tel Aviv hospital after a long illness. She was 74. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and President 
 BECKER--Dorothy Goldstein. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College expresses its heartfelt sorrow to her sons, Daniel, William and David, and to her grandchildren, Sarah and Samuel; Anne, James and Leslie; Michael, Ruth, Benjamin, Rachel and Jordan on the death of Dorothy, mother and grand
 FELDSTEIN--Martha. Died on June 27 at age 79. Beloved wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Wally and his wife Marilyn and Haila and her husband David. Proud grandmother of Ilysa and Daniel. Cherished sister of Alan. Radiated exuberance, always had a song in her heart which she shared with othe
 FERBER -- Phyllis Warren. Died June 28, 2004 at age 88. Devoted wife of the late Leon Ferber for 62 years. Loving mother of Paul Ferber and Laurie Ferber Podolsky and her husband, Morris. Loving grandmother of Joshua Podolsky. Graveside service June 30, 1 P.M. at the Beth-El Cemetery of Ber
 GLATTSTEIN--Hanna. December 24, 1924-June 26, 2004. The Young Israel of Brooklyn mourns the passing of our last Secretary - Treasurer. Hanna Z'L survived Aushwitz, remained dedicated to Torah education, and was an ILGWU union activist. Our heartfelt condolences go out to her son, grandchild
 OPPENS--Edith. Mannes College of Music mourns the passing of Edith Oppens, a beloved and dedicated teacher of piano for many years. Her wisdom and musicality will be missed. Joel Lester, Dean       
 PEARL--Emily. We mourn the loss of our beloved Past President. Condolences to her family. Sisterhood of Forest Hills JC       
 RIBNER--Paula. At the age of 96, died peacefully of natural causes in Long Branch, NJ on June 25, 2004. A resident of Palm Beach, Florida, she was a nationally acclaimed bridge player, the fifth woman to achieve Life Master ranking and a member of the only allfemale team ever to win the cov
 ST. GEORGE--Jane. After a long illness, died on June 25, 2004. Beloved sister of Lady Diana Earle and Sally Alford. Devoted cousin of Pony Duke and Katharine Selznick. She was a breeder of champions. Your courage and commitment to friendship will never be forgotten. Memorial service in New 
 Agnes Cunningham, a founder of the influential folk-song journal Broadside, died on Sunday at a nursing home in New Paltz, N.Y., her daughter Jane Friesen said. She was 95. Broadside, begun by Ms. Cunningham and her husband, Gordon Friesen, in 1962, published more than 1,000 topical
 HAMEL--Nancy. Of Morris Plains, NJ on June 16, 2004. Her ashes were scattered in her favorite place.       
 POSNER--Florence of Mamaroneck, NY. Age 88. Survived by daughters Marcy Posner and Susan Posner, three grandchildren and a sister Rita Lewis. Predeceased by her husband George J. Posner and a brother Louis Silverman. For information Zion Memorial Chapel call 914-381-1809.       
 RIBNER--Paula. The Officers, Trustees and members of Ocean Beach Club send their heartfelt condolences to her family. Sandy Paskin, President Nancy Bach, Secretary       
 WAIVADA--Ern, 78, of Garrison, NY. Survived by wife Teri; daughters Susan, and Amy Lahey, her husband Kevin; and two grandchildren.       
