 Buffie Johnson, a painter whose work spanned much of the 20th century and ranged from Surrealism to Abstract Expressionism to larger-than-life hyperrealism, died on Aug. 11 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Joan Schenkar, 
 Iris M. Ovshinsky, who along with her husband, the iconoclastic inventor Stanford R. Ovshinsky, produced cleaner automotive technologies and pushed the auto industry to embrace them, died on Aug. 16 near her home in Bloomfield Township, Mich. She was 79. She drowned after apparently
 Astrid Varnay, the charismatic dramatic soprano whose distinguished 55-year career began at 23 with a last-minute debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing the role of Sieglinde in Wagner's ''Walküre'' for an indisposed Lotte Lehmann, died in Munich on Monday. She was 88. The cause 
 Dorothy Harmsen, who was a co-founder of the Jolly Rancher Candy Company, the maker of tangy, slowly dissolving bricks of fruit-flavored candy, and the owner of one of the nation's largest private collections of art of the American West, died in Denver on Aug. 29. She was 91. The ca
 Dr. Gail Greenberg Shapiro, a pediatric allergist who contributed to important studies of drug treatments for asthma and allergies and helped develop widely used standards for managing childhood asthma, died on Aug. 25 in Seattle. She was 59. Dr. Shapiro died during cardiac surgery.
 Julia Levien, a leading authority on the dances of Isadora Duncan and a teacher of her technique, died on Sunday at her home on Roosevelt Island. She was 94. Her death was announced by Catherine Gallant, a dancer and choreographer who studied with her for many years. Ms. Lev
 Patty Berg, the winner of a record 15 women's major golf championships and a founder of the Ladies Professional Golf Association, died yesterday in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88. Her death was announced by the L.P.G.A. She had Alzheimer's disease. Berg won the first United Sta
 Estelle R. Ramey, an endocrinologist, physiologist and feminist who came to national prominence in 1970 after she famously rebutted a Democratic leader who pronounced women unfit for important jobs because of the ''raging hormonal influences'' to which they were supposedly subject, died Fri
 Dr. Olga Jonasson, a transplant surgeon and medical administrator who played an early and leading role in encouraging women to enter male-dominated surgical specialties, died on Aug. 30 in Chicago. She was 72. The death was confirmed by colleagues at the University of Illinois at Ch
 Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 Elisabeth Ogilvie, the author of 46 books, most of them tales of romance and mystery set on the craggy islands off the coast of Maine, died Saturday at her home in Cushing, Me. She was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Barbara Mosher, Ms. Ogilvie's niece. Fans of her work, sa
 Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 Oriana Fallaci, a dissecting interviewer of the powerful and an iconoclastic journalist who became an icon herself, died Friday in her home city of Florence, Italy. She was 77. Ms. Fallaci, who also had a home in Manhattan, was known to have suffered from cancer for the last decade.
 A memorial tribute to the actress Maureen Stapleton will take place on Monday at 1 p.m. at the Circle in the Square Theater, 50th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue. Ms. Stapleton, who died on March 13 at the age of 80, made her Broadway debut in 1946 in ''The Playboy of the Western 
 Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 82 and also
 Margaret Phipps Boegner, who opened her family's vast Long Island estate, Old Westbury Gardens, to the public, died on Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 99. Her death was announced by the gardens, of which she was founder and former chairwoman. Mrs. Boegner 
 Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 and also had a hom
 Evelyn Ortner, who with her husband, Everett, was among the first, the most vocal and the most effective champions of the brownstone revival that spread from Brooklyn to the rest of the country, died on Tuesday at her home in Park Slope. She was 82. The cause has not been determined
 Beth Levine, an innovative American shoe designer whose boots, as Nancy Sinatra sang while wearing them, were made for walking, died on Wednesday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. The cause was lung cancer, said her niece, Nan Bush, the wife and producing partner of the ph
 Hélène Deschamps Adams, who as a teenager in France defied death by spying for groups resisting Nazi occupiers and their collaborators, and later for the United States, died on Sept. 16 in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Karyn Anic
 Iva Toguri D'Aquino, the Japanese-American convicted of treason in 1949 for broadcasting propaganda from Japan to United States servicemen in World War II as the seductive but sinister Tokyo Rose, died Tuesday in Chicago. Mrs. D'Aquino, who served more than six years in prison but s
 Ernestine Bayer, who founded a pioneering women's rowing club in 1938 on the Schuylkill in Philadelphia, rowed competitively into her 90's and became known as the mother of women's rowing, died Sept. 10 in Exeter, N.H. She was 97. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her d
 Maureen Daly, a writer whose first novel, ''Seventeenth Summer,'' anticipated the young-adult genre by decades when it appeared in 1942 and has endured as a classic coming-of-age story, died on Monday in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 85 and made her home in Palm Desert. The cause was 
 Martha Holmes, a photographer for Life magazine for 40 years, who was known for her intimate portraits but also for covering sports at a time when that was male turf, died on Sept. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 83. The death was confirmed by her son-in-law, John Koshel.      
