Audrey Mars, a civic leader and longtime volunteer in cancer organizations, died yesterday from complications of cancer at her home in Washington. She was 79 years old. Audrey Mars, a civic leader and longtime volunteer in cancer organizations, died yesterday from complication
Rose Glasser Kaplan, a social worker and a founder of the East River Group of Hadassah on Manhattan's Lower East Side, died of a heart attack last Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Rose Glasser Kaplan, a social worker and a founder of the East River Group
Mary Morrison Kennedy, a former vice president of architecture and decoration for the Sheraton Corporation of America, died Sunday at her home in Boston. She was 87 years old. Mary Morrison Kennedy, a former vice president of architecture and decoration for the Sheraton Corpor
Tane Matsukata, founder of the Nishimachi International School in Tokyo, died of heart failure on Thursday at Toho Medical University Hospital in Tokyo. She was 71 years old. Tane Matsukata, founder of the Nishimachi International School in Tokyo, died of heart failure on Thur
Harriet G. Buchheister, a wildlife conservationist, died of a respiratory ailment on Thursday at Carol Woods Health Center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 84 years old and had been a longtime resident of Manhattan and Bethesda, Md. Harriet G. Buchheister, a wildlife conservationi
Alice Palache Jones, retired vice president of the Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, died of complications arising from a heart condition yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco. She was 82 years old and lived in North Salem, N.Y. Alice Palache Jone
Marion C. Heffernan, who was principal of Walton High School, in the Bronx, from 1937 to 1965, died Friday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Hospital after a stroke two days earlier. She was 88 years old and had lived in retirement in Ardsley-on-Hudson for 13 years. Marion C. Heffernan, w
Fran Allison, the warm-voiced human component of the popular television show ''Kukla, Fran and Ollie,'' died of bone marrow failure at the Sherman Oaks (Calif.) Community Hospital yesterday. She was 81 years old and lived in Van Nuys, Calif. Fran Allison, the warm-voiced human
Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberties advocate and writing assistant to Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, her former husband, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Saturday after suffering a stroke. She was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberti
Mary Regina Hayford, the ''Little Old Lady from Dubuque'' who helped turn a New York snub into a symbol of pride, died Monday. She was 85 years old. Mary Regina Hayford, the ''Little Old Lady from Dubuque'' who helped turn a New York snub into a symbol of pride, died Monday. S
Honor Tracy, a travel writer, columnist and novelist who satirized Irish and English society, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Oxford, England. She was 75 years old. Honor Tracy, a travel writer, columnist and novelist who satirized Irish and English society, died Tuesday in 
Reyna Lander McGowen, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 57 years old. Reyna Lander McGowen, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 57 years old. Mrs. 
Sonja Haas, a Belgian-born lawyer who worked to win reparations for concentration camp survivors from the post-war German Government, died Sunday after a long illness. She was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sonja Haas, a Belgian-born lawyer who worked to win reparations 
Grace Straim Backman, a Red Cross volunteer for half a century who was active in many other charities, died Friday at Scripps Hospital in Encinitas, Calif. Mrs. Backman was 77 years old and lived in Solana Beach, Calif. Grace Straim Backman, a Red Cross volunteer for half a ce
Lois vonBehren Sheperd, who was active in Westchester County charities, died Monday at Cathedral Village Retirement Home in Philadelphia. She was 93 years old and had lived in Bronxville, N.Y., for 60 years before moving to Philadelphia nine years ago. Lois vonBehren Sheperd, 
Nancy M. Yedlin, the secretary of the Fashion Institute of Technology and director of its college relations, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 55 years old. Nancy M. Yedlin, the secretary of the Fashion Institute of Technology and director of its co
Florence Walsh, a field office director with the Child Welfare Administration of New York City's Human Resources Administration, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 47 years old. Mrs. Walsh joined the H.R.A. as a caseworker in the division of day care. In 1986 s
Josephine O'Mahoney Riordan, a nurse with the British Expeditionary Forces in France during World War I, died Wednesday at the Powhatan Nursing Facility in Falls Church, Va. She was 100 years old and lived in Elmhurst, Queens. Josephine O'Mahoney Riordan, a nurse with the Brit
Hibari Misora, known as ''the queen'' of Japanese singers, died of heart failure today after a long illness. She was 52 years old. Hibari Misora, known as ''the queen'' of Japanese singers, died of heart failure today after a long illness. She was 52 years old. Born Ka
Lisa Sergio, a pioneer radio news broadcaster in Mussolini's Italy who became a dedicated anti-Fascist and a news commentator for WQXR and other American radio stations, died of a heart attack Thursday at her home in Washington. She was 84 years old. Lisa Sergio, a pioneer rad
Margaret A. Burt, a partner in Buck Associates of Manhattan, an actuarial firm, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at her home in the Brooklyn Heights area. She was 98 years old. Margaret A. Burt, a partner in Buck Associates of Manhattan, an actuarial firm, died of co
Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company died Tuesday. She was 97 years old. Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company die
Elizabeth Henry, a founder of the Meals on Wheels program in this country, died Sunday of pneumonia. She was 86 years old. Elizabeth Henry, a founder of the Meals on Wheels program in this country, died Sunday of pneumonia. She was 86 years old. In 1958 Ms. Henry and t
Elsa Adler Bass, who with her first husband, Dr. Clarence Adler, operated a summer music colony at Lake Placid for almost 40 years, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 years old. Elsa Adler Bass, who with her first husband, Dr. Clarence Adler, operated a summer m
Marion Oppenheimer, director of public education of the New York City Sanitation Department, died of cancer on Friday at the New York University Medical Center. She was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marion Oppenheimer, director of public education of the New York City S
Edith Begner, a novelist whose work focused on the medical profession, died of lymphatic leukemia on Wednesday at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Edith Begner, a novelist whose work focused on the medical profession, died of lymp
Edith M. Lerrigo, who was national executive director of the Young Women's Christian Association of the United States before retiring in 1974, died of complications from Alzheimer's disease Saturday at the Health Services Center in Claremont, Calif. She was 78 years old.  Ms. Lerrigo 
Margaret Walter Brown, an active community volunteer in Greenwich, Conn., where she lived, died of a heart attack June 22 at Greenwich Hospital. She was 66 years old. Mrs. Brown, a 1944 graduate of Vassar College, was a founding member of the Junior League of Greenwich and was associa
Mitzi E. Newhouse, who donated $1 million in 1973 to make possible the continued operation of the two theaters in the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 years old. Mitzi E. Newhouse, who donated $1 million in 1973 
