 GROSS--Ruth B. Of Huntington, NY, died November 29, 2005. Naturalist and educator of children. She will be missed by her three children, Jane Miller, Diane Kingsley, and William Gross III; five grandchildren; and very dear friend, David Johnson. Private Cremation by A.L. Jacobsen Funeral Ho
 PRESKY--Marcia. Age 50, on November 28, 2005. Beloved daughter of Albert and the late Esther. Loving sister of David. Marcia was a dedicated, generous and giving advocate of international women's health. Some of Marcia's many accomplishments during over 14 years at American Jewish Joint Dis
 SHERMAN--Guelda Kirkwood. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died November 16. Mrs. Sherman was a graduate of the Eastman School of Music where she honed her skills as a professional cellist. Her natural love of music blossomed into a rewarding career which filled her life with beauty. She is survived by h
 Hermine Braunsteiner Ryan was a Queens homemaker in 1964 when The New York Times revealed her notorious past as a vicious Nazi death camp guard. Nearly a decade later, she became the first United States citizen to be extradited for war crimes. She was sent to West Germany, where she
 BEALE--Joy. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 GRUNTHAL--Berta. Died on December 1, 2005. She was born April 27, 1914. She was preceded in death by loving husband Henry and son Howard. She leaves sisters Clara Schoenfeld of Boca Raton, Florida, and Gisela Kamrat of Jerusalem, Israel, and numerous nieces and nephews. The funeral service 
 HONIG--Helaine. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Helaine Honig. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her loss. Rabbi David M. Posner Rober
 PRESKY--Marcia. Age 50, on November 28, 2005. Beloved daughter of Albert and the late Esther. Loving sister of David. Marcia was a dedicated, generous and giving advocate of international women's health. Some of Marcia's many accomplishments during over 14 years at American Jewish Joint Dis
 SHERMAN--Guelda Kirkwood. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died November 16. Mrs. Sherman was a graduate of the Eastman School of Music where she honed her skills as a professional cellist. Her natural love of music blossomed into a rewarding career which filled her life with beauty. She is survived by h
 LORD - WOOD -- Elizabeth June, a music lover who dedicated her life to disarmament, peace and justice in the world, died on Tuesday, November 29, 2005, at the Amsterdam House in Manhattan from natural causes after a short illness. She was 83. A native of Glenolden, PA, June graduated from F
 DIAMOND--Lea. 88, died December 1, 2005. She is survived by her loving daughters and sons-in-law Sharon (Roger Nathaniel) Diamond, Lois (Thomas) Gueli, her cherished grandchildren Allison, Jonathan, Lydia, Jeremy, Jasper and Emma, two devoted brothers and sisters-inlaw Murray (Nina) Migdal 
 GANSBERG--Agatha, 80, nee Miller, of Rutherford, NJ, on Thursday, December 1st. She was born in Passaic, NJ, lived in Paris, France, then moved back to Passaic, before settling in Rutherford, NJ, 30 years ago. She graduated the University of Michigan in 1946, receiving her Bachelor of Scien
 RAICES--Florence. Retired Brooklyn school teacher in her 98th year. She is survived by her niece, Judith Raices; nephews, Harry and Richard Marsh; and their families. Graveside services 11 AM on December 4 at Mount Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ.       
 RIESS--Anneliese, Ph.D. On December 1, 2005. Loving sister of Elsa and sister-in-law of Ruth. She will be profoundly missed.       
 STERN -- Marilyn (Mindy). Succumbed to cancer December 1st. She will be missed by her husband Lou, sons Mike, Dave and Jon, brothers Abe and Alvin Bober, and her friends at the Summit and Randolph YMCA's, and at the bridge table. Mindy supported organizations involved with educating childre
 WEIL--Elsbeth. Beloved wife of Lothar, loving mother of Susan and Robert and grandmother of Kyle, died at home in La Jolla, California on November 29, 2005 at the age of 91. Donations may be contributed in her name to Holy Cross Hospice, Private Bag 00287, Gaborone, Botswana (holycross@mega
 BENJAMIN--Audrey. December 2, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Bruce Benjamin. Loving mother of Keith and Bonnie. Cherished Nana of Kelsey, Jackson, Bruce and Peri. Lovingly cared for by her cherished Polo, Samantha and Jenny. She will be deeply missed by her extended family and all who knew 
 DIAMOND--Lea. 88, died December 1, 2005. She is survived by her loving daughters and sons-in-law Sharon (Roger Nathaniel) Diamond, Lois (Thomas) Gueli, her cherished grandchildren Allison, Jonathan, Lydia, Jeremy, Jasper and Emma, two devoted brothers and sisters-inlaw Murray (Nina) Migdal 
 LOEB--Evelyn Portrait (nee Levy). Of New York City and previously New Milford, CT died in her home on November 11, 2005. Former beauty and fashion editor at Cue Magazine, Mrs. Loeb also cowrote ''The Diane von Furstenberg Book of Beauty'' and ''The Mario Badescu Way to Beautiful Skin.'' A w
 LONDON -- Adele (nee Schwartz). Wife of the late Eddie. Never to be forgotten by her daughters Enid Stemmer, Meredith London and grandson Andrew Stemmer and her sisters Rena Zinkin, the late Violet Cohen. Rest in peace.       
 NEUMAN--Lisa A. On December 2, 2005, age 92, late of New York City. Born in Austria. The only child of Jaques Neuman and Hedwig Stohr. Retired after a long career as a psychiatric social worker with the NYC Board of Education. She will be deeply missed by her many devoted friends because of
 ORANS--Sylvia (nee Kornreich). Her energy, vitality and commitment to improving our world will be missed by all who loved her. Donations to: Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Attention: Dr. K. Dahlman, Mount Sinai Hospital, Box 1230, 1 Gustave Levy Place, New York, NY 10029. Memorial: So
 RIESS--Anneliese, Ph.D. On December 1, 2005. Loving sister of Elsa and sister-in-law of Ruth. She will be profoundly missed.       
 SKOLNICK -- Estelle Pinto. Died in England on November 22, 2005, peacefully in her sleep, after a long illness. Wife of the late Irving Skolnick, and mother of the late Alan Skolnick, she is survived by her daughter, Betty, son-in-law David Watson, and grandchildren, Sarah & Michael. Donati
 SULZBERGER--Maye. Died on Saturday night November 26th after a long life well lived. Maye is survived by her loving and beloved family. Services were held at Frank E. Campbell's; interment is at Beth-El Cemetery, Elmont, NY. Comprehensive NY Times obit ran earlier this week. Memorial contri
 WHITNEY--Frances J. Died peacefully on November 29, 2005 at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. An artist and designer her entire life, in 1939 she invented the ''millinery mobile''. In the 1960's she was one of the first artists to create the exhibit ''Body Sculpture''. In the early 
 WILSON -- Katherine Stern. Age 79, died on Friday, November 25, surrounded by members of her devoted family. Death was due to complications of cancer and came only after a long and courageous fight. She is survived by her husband Philip, two daughters: Lucy and Elizabeth Watson; three sons:
 MARKS--Elaine Miller. We dedicate the monument and CLL Leukemia Research Project 5154 at Sloan-Kettering Hospital to the memory of Elaine M. Marks, realizing that her remains are not only in this plot of ground, but in every heart her life did touch. We are grateful for the years we shared 
 GOLDMUNTZ--Ruth. 73, died peacefully in Santa Barbara, CA, on December 2nd, after a courageous fight with emphysema. Her sons, David and Michael Goldmuntz, were with her. Born in 1932 in Frankfurt, Germany, to Arthur and Gerda Loewengart, she came to the United States in 1937 with her famil
 KASS--Maria Leonina (nee Pereira da Silva). December 2. Beloved wife of Donald, mother of Jeremy and Nina, daughter of Maria Jose and Nilo, sister of Ana Maria Goncalves and Maria Luisa Servantes. Ph.D. in animal nutrition, Cornell, 1978, Maria was a respected investigator and teacher. Skil
 NICHINSON--Arline Judith. Of Boca Raton, Florida left us on December 2, 2005 at the age of 79. She was, and in our memories, will always be vital, exciting, young in heart, gentle and genuine. She was a truly beautiful lady. Arline was the lasting love of her husband David, with a marriage 
 SCHWARTZ--Jane (nee Robbins). 88, on December 3, 2005. Beloved wife of Leonard. Devoted mother of Judy and Steven. Grandmother of Jason, Ben and Will. Dear friend to many. She will be profoundly missed.       
 WEISBROT - Pauline. We stand in awe of her extraordinary courage in the face of illness and her devotion to her family. Beloved wife of the late Aaron. Survived by her devoted children, Deborah (Alan Ettinger) and Jeffrey (Andrea), adored grandchildren, Joshua, Jonathan, Rachel and Marc, an
 STRASNICK--Beatrice. East End Temple and its Sisterhood mourn the passing of one of our dedicated Founding Members and a Past President of our Sisterhood. We will miss her constant devotion. Karen Feuer, Congregation President Fern Stampleman, Sisterhood President David Adelson, Rabbi      
 Katharine Sergava, a dancer and actress who portrayed Laurey in Agnes de Mille's dream ballet in the original Broadway production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 26 at her home in Manhattan. She was 95 or 96. Her death was reported yesterday by a longtime friend, Ann Berlin. An erron
 FRENCH--Lauretta. Of New York City. Died December 3, 2005. Beloved mother of Lauretta Hicks Jones of Tallahassee, FL and Frenchie Longino of Washington, DC. She was the wife of the late Theron Hicks and Melvin Longino. She will be missed by her grandchildren, great grandchildren, extended f
 GOLDMUNTZ - Ruth. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Ruthie Goldmuntz. She worked tirelessly with Teddy Kollek and the early founders of the Israel Museum, and remained a close friend for 40 years. We
 LITTENBERG--Roslyn Halper. Of Manhattan, NY. Died December 4, 2005 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Eli, devoted mother of Ronnie and Laurence, grandmother of Liza, Michael, and Jeff. Mourned also by sister Naomi, brothers Norman and Ted, sisters-in-law, Roz and Carol, son-in-law Phil, d
 LORBERBAUM--Leah. Died December 4. Loving wife of Donald. Mother of Stephen and Cathy, Gregg and Jill, Neal and Sandy and eight grandchildren. Sister of Larry Prisant. We will always love and miss you. In lieu of flowers, donations to Childrens Brain Tumor Foundation, 274 Madison Ave, Suite
 RIESS--Anneliese, PHD. On December 1, 2005. Dr. Riess was indeed a remarkable woman. After leaving her native Germany, because of rising anti-semitism in the 1930's she continued her studies in Anthropology in Italy and earned her PHD. After coming to the United States and working as a baby
 Constance L. Hays, a reporter for The New York Times for nearly two decades, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 44 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, her husband, John Hays, said. Ms. Hays, who joined The Times in 1986, covered business news 
 BECKER--Bertha. Passed away in Boynton Beach, FL. at the age of 92 in the company of her devoted family. Our world has changed forever. We miss and love you so much. Your strength will be carried on through all of us. Your grandchildren and great-grand children Kerri, Craig, Glenn, Allison,
 FRIEDMAN--Sylvia. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to Board Member Mrs. Debby Kwestel, and Honorary Chairman, Professor Shimon Kwestel, and family, upon the passing of her beloved mother. Hamakom Yenachemchembetoch shear aveilei Zion Veyerushalayim.       
 GEFFEN - Florence. Born September 6, 1911 in Manchester, NH. Died peacefully in her sleep after a long illness. Mrs. Geffen was surrounded by a most extraordinary group of caregivers. She came to New York in 1931 to teach music theory at Teachers College. Florence was an accomplished pianis
 GERKEN--Constance L. December 5, 2005, Age 92 of NYC formerly of Ridgewood, New Jersey. Beloved mother of Constance E. Gerard, grandmother of Trish Harwood, great grandmother of Constance Harwood. Survived by her sister Miriam Hill of Ocala, FL. Special Education Teacher in Glenrock, NJ. fo
 HARRINGTON--Peggy. Cultural coordinator for the Interfaith Center of New York, formerly at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. A warm friend and mentor to many, beloved mother, lover of life and the arts, we will miss her terribly. An exceptionally brave, original and independent woman, s
 KALINA--Amy. On December 3, at age 53. Survived by her husband Steven, son Daniel, brothers Richard and Jon, sisters-in-law Valerie, Leslie, and Marjie, brother-inlaw Greg, niece Nathalie and nephew Benjamin. She was loved by all who knew her. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, De
 LITTENBERG--Roslyn Halper. Of Manhattan, NY. Died December 4, 2005 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Eli, devoted mother of Ronnie and Laurence, grandmother of Liza, Michael, and Jeff. Mourned also by sister Naomi, brothers Norman and Ted, sisters-in-law, Roz and Carol, son-in-law Phil, d
 LORBERBAUM--Leah. You have been an integral part of our lives and we will always cherish the good times together. We will miss you. Blitz, Herbst and Cohen Families $(6$)LORBERBAUM--Leah. A very special, valiant, courageous woman. Loved by all. She will be missed. Roseann and Irwin 
 MARONEY--Mary F. Of Glen Cove, NY, died peacefully at her home in the morning of December 2, 2005, at the age of 97. Her late husband Vincent predeceased her 56 years ago. She leaves four children William (Aimee), Janet (Leonard) Connolly, Vincent (Alice) and Frances (the late John) Magenhe
 MELNICK--Goldie. On December 5, 2005 in St. Petersburg, FL. Born May 31, 1925 in Liberty, New York, where she spent most of her life. Beloved teacher at the Rutherford Elementary School, Monticello, NY for 24 years. She leaves her son Andrew B. Melnick (Rae Koshetz) of NYC & daughters Cynth
 YITZCHAK SCHAPIRO--Rabbi Levi. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Rose Schreiber. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 HARRINGTON--Peggy, was a brilliant star in the life of the Interfaith Center of New York, from its beginning in January 1997 until her death last week. A woman of rich imagination and hard work, Peggy was an inspiration to board, staff, and program participants of all religious traditions, 
 HAYS--Constance. The directors and staff of Christie's deeply mourn the loss of Constance Hays, wife of our beloved Deputy Chairman, John Hays. John's tremendous success in the field of American Furniture & Decorative Arts has been supported for years by Connie's love, good humor, generous 
 KAPLAN--Judy, of New York City died December 6, 2005 at age 61. Born October 6, 1944 in Mexico to Isaac and Naomi (Shvarzblat) Kaplan. She worked in NYC in Human Resources. Survived by her mother Naomi and sisters Sara Abramson (husband Richard), Ruth Kaplan and Lilly Combias (husband John)
 MELNICK--Goldie. On December 5, 2005 in St. Petersburg, FL. Born May 31, 1925 in Liberty, New York, where she spent most of her life. Beloved teacher at the Rutherford Elementary School, Monticello, NY for 24 years. She leaves her son Andrew B. Melnick (Rae Koshetz) of NYC & daughters Cynth
 SLOAN--Rebecca, 1935-2005, died peacefully with family at her side at her daughter Andrea's home on December 6th of cancer. Born April 18 in Garden City, Kansas, to the late Dorine and Leland Sloan, Rebecca was the second of four children. She was preceded in death by her sister, Sara Ann, 
 CHU--Ellen F. Of Stamford, CT. died peacefully on December 5th at the age of 74. Born in Nanking China, was graduated from Albertus Magnus College, she worked for the United Nations, Northwest Airlines and had a 30 year career with the Department of Justice as a language translator. Loving 
 GALLIGAN--Joan E. (nee Cullinan). Age 58 of Glen Ridge, NJ. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved mother of Kimberly Cicala and her husband Joseph. Cherished grandmother of Kayleigh and Louis. Born in Elmhurst, NY, Mrs. Galligan lived in Brooklyn for 30 years and Glen Ridge the last five years.
 HARRINGTON--Peggy, was a brilliant star in the life of the Interfaith Center of New York, from its beginning in January 1997 until her death last week. A woman of rich imagination and hard work, Peggy was an inspiration to board, staff, and program participants of all religious traditions, 
 NADELL--Ruth. December 8, 2005. Passed away peacefully at the Williams Memorial Residence. Devoted mother of Carol Nadell and Ralph and his wife Jeannie Nadell. Caring grandmother of Jesse and Eli. She leaves many who loved her and admired her. We will miss her beautiful smile. Memorial ser
 WURLITZER--Anna Lee. The Board, Officers, Medical Staff, staff and residents of The Fieldhome and its affiliates note with great sorrow the passing of its devoted Board Member, Mrs. Rembert Wurlitzer. Mrs. Wurlitzer served on the Board of The Fieldhome for more than 50 years, initially on T
 Atsuko Tanaka, one of Japan's most important avant-garde artists, died on Dec. 3 at a hospital near her home in Nara, Japan. She was 73. The cause was pneumonia, said Midori Nishizawa of the Paula Cooper Gallery, which represents her work in New York. Ms. Tanaka had been hospitalize
 LACEY--Edith. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 STUCKLER--Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Jacob (Jack). Devoted daughter, sister, sister-in-law, aunt and greataunt. Lovingly cared for her by her health companion Beverly Coleman. Graveside services Sunday, 2:00 P.M. at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 ALLIOT--Sally N., 77. Passed away on December 2, 2005. She had resided in North Haven, CT, with her loving husband of 56 years, Eric Alliot, Jr. Born in Erie, PA, on May 18, 1928, a daughter of the late Douglas and Eleanor Nagle. Sally was devoted to music, reading, family and friends. She 
 DOUGLAS--Ann C.M. Of Niantic, CT, died suddenly on December 8, in New London, CT. She was born in Springfield, MA, on September 27, 1934, daughter of Harvey H. and Catherine Allis Moses. She was married in Longmeadow, MA, on December 22, 1956 to R. Gordon Douglas. She was a trustee of Skidm
 EHRLICH -- Frances Borg. Passed away peacefully in her home on December 6, 2005. She was born in New York City on December 10, 1916, to Arthur and Maybelle Marx. She was a longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York City, and West Cornwall, CT. She was the wife of the late John Simon Borg and 
 FALCONE--Janet (Katherine) Wirth. 86, of Jamaica, Queens, NY, on July 26, 2005. Born July 6, 1919, Sandusky, OH. Recently of Westfield, NJ and Moraga, CA. Husband of the late Philip F. Falcone. Mother of Philip F. Falcone, Jr. of Westfield, NJ and Roger W. Falcone of Lafayette, CA. Grandmot
 GOODMAN--Jeanne. On November 30, 2005. Beloved and devoted mother of Hollace and Adrienne, both privileged to be at her side to the end. Jezzie, you live in our hearts and minds, and continue to guide us, eternally.       
 HEMINGWAY--Margi Smith (nee Wilkinson). Resident of Hornersville, MO. Died suddenly on November 24, 2005. Born October 11, 1942 in Port Jefferson, LI. An esteemed member of the food and wine community, she leaves her beloved husband and business partner, Joseph W. Hemingway. Their firm Smit
 JAFFE--Sarah. 72. Daughter of Joseph Richardson and Gertrude Herring. Born in Colena, AL. on January 25, 1933, died October 26. She leaves a son, Aaron Jaffe, sister Laura Ericson, and brother Louis Richardson.       
 LACEY--Edith Gordon. Of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, passed away on December 9, 2005, at the age of 95. Most beloved wife for 70 years of the late Robert Irving Lacey; adored mother of Carol and Edward Sacks, Joan and Ronald Rothaus; most loved grandmother of Jonathan and Barrie
 LAVORI--Mary E. December 9, 2005 at home in Yarmouthport, MA, surrounded by her five children. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William P. Lavori. Mother of Philip, Nora, Joseph, Angela Lavori and Judith L. Keiser. Grandmother of Liana and Alexander Sterling, Daniel and Cathryn Lavori, William 
 NADELL--Ruth. December 8, 2005. Passed away peacefully at the Williams Memorial Residence. Devoted mother of Carol Nadell and Ralph and his wife Jeannie Nadell. Caring grandmother of Jesse and Eli. She leaves many who loved her and admired her. We will miss her beautiful smile. Memorial ser
 ROBERTS--Eva, 93. On November 24, 2005. Violinist and teacher. Taught for many years at the Third Music Settlement School and at the YMCA. Recognized and loved by all who knew her, as a fiercely independent woman who challenged everybody to achieve artistic and intellectual excellency. Eva,
 ROSEN--Selma Modell. On December 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Charles H. Rosen. Devoted mother to Jane and Richard. Adoring grandmother to Dana, Brette, and Kitty. Loving sister of Arthur B. Modell, Pat Breslin Modell, the late Pansy Modell Bloom, and Bernard Bloom. Loving aunt to all 
 SILLS -- Dorothy S. Died peacefully on December 2, 2005 in Boynton Beach, FL. at the age of 86. Beloved wife of the late Col. Tom W. Sills; loving mother to daughters Cynthia Davis of Delray Beach, FL; the late Madeline (Gardner) Budzynski; step daughters Mary Ann Marks and husband Donald; 
 TALLAL--Lisa, M.D. Of Dallas and New York, noted pediatric hematologist and child psychiatrist, passed away on October 16 after a long illness. She leaves behind many loving family members and devoted friends with whom she shared her incredible joy of living. Contributions may be sent to th
 WHITESIDE--Mary Norman. December 9, Skillman, NJ. Sister of Mabel Ehlert, of Skillman and the late Frederick W. Whiteside of Lexington, KY. Aunt of Katherine Whiteside Zalph, Louisville, KY, and Margaret Whiteside Chen, Fairfax, VA. Born in Atlanta, GA, 1914. Graduate of Randolph-Macon Coll
 DEITCHMAN -- Gertrude ''Goldie.'' Our very special friend, died in Coral Springs, FL, December 9, 2005. Widow of Sam, mother of Bruce, Rosalie, and the late Martin, and beloved grandmother. A true woman of valor, Goldie touched the lives of everyone who knew her. We were glad to share her l
 BOTTA--Elizabeth Ann (aka Betty Santoro). Of Bayside, NY, on December 10, 2005. Beloved daughter of Madeline and John. Betty was a loving inspiration to both her family and friends. A pioneer in the gay rights movement, she helped organize the 1979 March on Washington and gave the keynote s
 DOUGLAS--Ann Moses. In heartfelt remorse, we mourn our esteemed colleague, friend and former Board member. As we treasure her dedication to the mission of Princeton Project 55, her uncommon grace and humanity will live on in our memories. With deepest symapthies to the Douglas family, Princ
 FOREMAN--Estelle C. On December 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Donald Foreman. Devoted mother of Brion Lissa Foreman of Ft. Myers, FL, and New York City, Rand and Arnold Bergman of Marblehead, MA. Adored grandmother of Shira and Devra Bergman. Her creativity and love of life inspired all
 JAFFE--Sarah. 72. Daughter of Joseph Richardson and Gertrude Herring. Born in Colena, AL. on January 25, 1933, died October 26. She leaves a son, Aaron Jaffe, sister Laura Ericson, and brother Louis Richardson.       
 NEVLER--Leona. On December 10, 2005. Suddenly, she left a love that was spread through a family and beyond. She was the dear mother of Ellen and Michael Silberman and their spouses Brian Baron and Emily Eldridge, and devoted grandmother of Sophie, Eli, Ethan and Jacob. With the same gentlen
 SOYER--Jane. Died on December 10, 2005. Visionary teacher, mentor and guidance counselor for 30 years in the New York City public schools, Jane was a pioneer in the open classroom movement. During her last 15 years, she helped raise awareness of metastatic disease through her activism with 
 TALLAL--Lisa, M.D. Of Dallas and New York, noted pediatric hematologist and child psychiatrist, passed away on October 16 after a long illness. She leaves behind many loving family members and devoted friends with whom she shared her incredible joy of living. Contributions may be sent to th
 WHITBECK--Mary Ranck. 94, died peacefully at home on December 10, 2005. Predeceased in 1994 by Brainerd H. Whitbeck, her husband of 53 years, she is survived by two sons, B. Hunt Whitbeck Jr. of New York City, and John V. Whitbeck of Paris, and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be 
 WILKINS--Lee G. 90, of Englewood Cliffs, NJ, on December 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Wilkins. She was a practicing Psychologist/Psychoanalyst in New York City and Englewood Cliffs, NJ. One of twelve children, she is survived by her sister Mildred Lazar and brother Morton Abo
 DEITCHMAN -- Gertrude ''Goldie.'' Our very special friend, died in Coral Springs, FL, December 9, 2005. Widow of Sam, mother of Bruce, Rosalie, and the late Martin, and beloved grandmother. A true woman of valor, Goldie touched the lives of everyone who knew her. We were glad to share her l
 Débora Arango, a prolific artist who at first repelled socially conservative Colombia with stark paintings of nudes and social conflict but who was later celebrated as one of the country's most inventive, daring artists, died on Dec. 4 at her rambling colonial home outside Medellín. She w
 DeSILVIO--Arlene R., on December 10, 2005. Beloved daughter of the late Alphonse and the late Louise. Loving sister of Gloria and Linda. Cherished companion of Charle Minialga. Funeral Wednesday 9:00 A.M. from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Road, Bklyn. Mass of Christian Burial 
 HERSCHKOPF--Esther. Beloved wife of the late Wolf. Devoted mother of Sybil Frankel & Dr. Isaac Herschkopf. Loving grandmother of Marta, Jayme and Davida Herschkopf. Services Tuesday, 12:45 PM ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. She not only survived; she prevailed. 
 ROTH--Rose Osztern. May 21, 1905--December 11, 2005. Daughter of Frieda and Dr. Leopold Osztern. Widow of Emanuel Roth. Born and grew up in Budapest, Hungary. Earned a Ph.D. in languages at the University of Budapest. Also studied at the Sorbonne on a scholarship. She was separated from her
 SOYER--Jane. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with profound sorrow the passing of Jane Soyer, wife of David Soyer, JASA's founding Director of Community Services. Jane was a kind and gentle soul and a devoted wife, mother and grandmother. She will
 WEBELMAN--Leonor. We mourn our dear friend who died in Mexico December 6. Her courage and joy for life will be remembered. We express our condolences to her family and many friends. The Melamid Family       
 WHITBECK--Mary Ranck. 94, died peacefully at home on December 10, 2005. Predeceased in 1994 by Brainerd H. Whitbeck, her husband of 53 years, she is survived by two sons, B. Hunt Whitbeck Jr. of New York City, and John V. Whitbeck of Paris, and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be 
 BRUHN--Marilyn R. 80, of Arlington, VT died November 25, 2005. Longtime resident of NYC, she was a member of Park Avenue Methodist Church and The Seraphic Society. Services held in Arlington, burial in Birmingham, AL       
 CARLSON -- Eileen Evers, Esq., 79, of Carefree, AZ passed away December 11, 2005. Mrs. Carlson was retired chief legal counsel for the Securities & Exchange Commission, the Legal Aid Society of New York and also served as CEO of the Arthur J. Evers Corporation. She was a member of Our Lady 
 FLETCHER -- Helen Lamb ''Lamb'' and ''Lambie''. Widow of David W. Fletcher. Born May 8, 1927 in New York City. Died December 9 on St. Croix. She was the daughter of Dr. & Mrs. Albert R. Lamb.       
 HAGAN--Patricia (Mrs. Ward S.). The Board of Governing Trustees, Kevin McKenzie, Rachel Moore, The Dancers and Staff of American Ballet Theatre mourn the passing of friend and long time Board member Patricia Hagan. Having served on the Board since 1980, Patricia will be remembered for her t
 HERSCHKOPF--Esther. Beloved wife of the late Wolf. Devoted mother of Sybil Frankel & Dr. Isaac Herschkopf. Loving grandmother of Marta, Jayme and Davida Herschkopf. Services Tuesday, 12:45 PM ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. She not only survived; she prevailed.       
 LIND--Edna (nee Lundahl). On December 11, 2005. Formerly of Lyric Opera and Metropolitan Opera. Known as Aunty Bun to her nephews Richard, Gene, Warren. We all love you Aunty Bun. Funeral Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, Thursday 2-5, 7-9 & Friday 2:30.       
 WALD--Fanni. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Clarissa Kirschenbaum. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 Leona Nevler, a prominent book editor who 50 years ago helped secure the publication of a first novel set in an imaginary town called Peyton Place, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 79 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. The cause was a pulmona
 HOFFBAUER--Helga. My beloved wife of 71 years, Helga Hoffbauer, my anchor and my companion left us peacefully on December 13, 2005 in her 92nd year. She is survived by a daughter, Stephanie Brody, three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Gerhard Hoffbauer       
 LIND--Edna (nee Lundahl). On December 11, 2005. Formerly of Lyric Opera and Metropolitan Opera. Known as Aunty Bun to her nephews Richard, Gene, Warren. We all love you Aunty Bun. Funeral Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, Thursday 2-5, 7-9 & Friday 2:30.       
 SAMELSON - Ellen. Long time resident of Great Neck, NY, on December 14, 2005 at age 80. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Dr. Jeffrey (Amanda) Rapaport, Holly Samelson, and Marc (Sheri) Rapaport. Treasured grandmother of Will, Ali, Lauren, Robyn, Danny and Lanna. A member o
 SOJKA--Anne W. Passed away on December 13, 2005. Mrs. Sojka is predeceased by her husband Casimir. Mass of Christian Burial, on Friday, December 16, 2005, 9:30 AM at Holy Family Church, New Rochelle, N.Y. Visiting hours Thursday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Edwin L. Bennett Funeral Homes, 824 Scarsda
 BOAS--Margaret K. Died on December 13 at the age of 104. Widow of Raymond E. Boas and mother of the late Elizabeth Breslauer Vreeland Tompkins. Peggy was loved by her niece, Susan Hirschman, and her grandsons, Nicholas and Alexander Vreeland. She was the respected stepmother of Gilbert, Fra
 FARBER--Nettie Goldstein. 75, on December 13. Beloved by Shaurain, Allyn Ann, Reuben, Ethel, Catherine and all who knew her. Donations to Zhitlovsky Center, League for Yiddish or Camp Kinderland. Funeral Sunday, December 18, 9:30AM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave (91st S
 GOODMAN--Anita S. On December 11, 2005. Devoted mother of Meredith Bernstein, Jane Pollak, Barbara Raho and Andy Goodman. Adoring grandmother to Lindsey, Robert and Laura Pollak; Nick, Joe and Emily Raho; and Daniel and Olivia Goodman. Loving wife of the late Larry Goodman for more than 50 
 JOHNSON--Evelyn, R.N. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the staff of the Beatrice Renfield Department of Patient Care Services in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Evelyn Johnson, R.N., beloved sister of Maryanne Johnson,
 ROMAN--Miriam. Age 75, died peacefully after a more than ten-year valiant struggle with the debilitating Multiple Sclerosis disease. Despite the illness that took away one kidney and put her in a wheelchair for the past five years, Miriam refused to give in to the disease, and she insisted 
 SAMELSON - Ellen. Long time resident of Great Neck, NY, on December 14, 2005 at age 80. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Dr. Jeffrey (Amanda) Rapaport, Holly Samelson, and Marc (Sheri) Rapaport. Treasured grandmother of Will, Ali, Lauren, Robyn, Danny and Lanna. A member o
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Grossman). Of Lido Beach, NY, on December 15. Beloved wife of Sidney. Cherished mother of Joan & Jonathan (Linda). Loving grandmother of Melissa and Wendy. She will be forever remembered and loved deeply by friends and family. Services 11:30 AM Sunday at Boulevard Chapels, 
 BECKERMAN - Roberta. Loving wife of Dr. Michael. Devoted mother of Aileen (David) Landes and Aimee (Damon) Rein. Adored grandmother of Zachary, Jacob, Benjamin and Jack. She will be in our hearts forever. Services Sunday, December 18, 2005, 11 A.M. at the ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,''
 LINFIELD--Babette, on December 15, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. She is survived by her son Jeffrey Mann, daughter-in-law Amy Mann, granddaughters Jessica Mann Gutteridge (Corin) and Rachel Mann Rosan (Seth), great grandchildren Rafe Gutteridge and Lily Rosan, also by her sister J
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Grossman). Of Lido Beach, NY, on December 15. Beloved wife of Sidney. Cherished mother of Joan & Jonathan (Linda). Loving grandmother of Melissa and Wendy. She will be forever remembered and loved deeply by friends and family. Services 11:30 AM Sunday at Boulevard Chapels, 
 Margretta Madden Styles, a nursing educator who conceived and helped establish precise national standards for certifying nurses in pediatrics, cardiology and other medical specialties, died on Nov. 20 at her home in Clearwater, Fla. She was 75. The cause was colon cancer, her family
 Mary Aiken Littauer, whose love affair with horses began with a childhood pony, blossomed with her marriage to an officer in the cavalry of Czar Nicholas II, and flowered famously when she became a leading expert on horses of ancient times, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Syosset, N.Y. She wa
 BECKERMAN - Roberta. Loving wife of Dr. Michael. Devoted mother of Aileen (David) Landes and Aimee (Damon) Rein. Adored grandmother of Zachary, Jacob, Benjamin and Jack. She will be in our hearts forever. Services Sunday, December 18, 2005, 11 A.M. at the ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,''
 BENNETT--Patricia Egan. On December 14, 2005 at age 81. Wife of the late William F. Bennett. Survived by her children and their spouses, William (Constance) of Dedham, Ma., Catherine Frailey (Fred) of McLean, Va., Jeff (Kelsey) of Lebanon, NJ, Betsy Henkel (Bill) of Mason Neck, Va., and Rob
 HARRIS--Nancy Ottis. White Bear Lake, MN, age 75, on December 11, 2005. Graduate of Summit School in St. Paul, Mills College, and ColumbiaPresbyterian School of Nursing. With her intelligence, great good sense and grounded personality, Nancy could be counted on completely by those close to 
 MEISELMAN - Bernice, passed gently on December 14. Survived by son Alan, daughter - in - law Pennie, grand daughters Amy Chatoff and Heather Frazin and their husbands Gary and Alan; great-granddaughters Jordyn and Morgan. Beloved by all. She joins her husband Bill and son Sandy in a place o
 PRESTON--Jane Elizabeth. 76, of Sarasota, FL, and North Fork, Long Island, died November 15th, 2005, after a long and valiant fight against cancer. Ms. Preston was the daughter of Margaret (Walker) and Harry Preston, and grew up in Fairlawn, NJ. She was an artist, an avid sailor, and a life
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Grossman). Of Lido Beach, NY, on December 15. Beloved wife of Sidney. Cherished mother of Joan & Jonathan (Linda). Loving grandmother of Melissa and Wendy. She will be forever remembered and loved deeply by friends and family. Services 11:30 AM Sunday at Boulevard Chapels, 
 BLUM--Helene L. Prospectresearch.org expresses condolences to Linda Merians and her family on the loss of her incredible grandmother Helene Blum.       
 ROSENBERGER - Leo. On December 17, 2005, at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Garald E. Rosenberger. Loving mother of Joann Lang and Gerrie Soman, and their husbands, Robert Todd Lang and Roger D. Soman. Cherished grandmother of William Gerald Lang, James David Lang, Nancy Lang Adler, Carol
 Margaret Hodges, who filled bookshelves with retold legends and other books for young readers and with the awards she received for them, died on Tuesday at her home in Verona, Pa. She was 94. Her death was announced by her son Arthur C. Hodges, who said two more of her books were to
 GREENSPAN--Sylvia Wells. 86, of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away on December 2, 2005. She is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Goldwert, her son-in-law Sidney Goldwert, two grandchildren Mark and Ilaina Goldwert, and her sister Estelle Jablon.       
 HOROWITZ -- Shirley. (nee Davis)Died December 18, 2005. Wife of the late Morris Nathan. Mother of Judith (Richard) Kaplan of Ft. Washington, PA, and the late Robert Horowitz. Grandmother of Jennifer, Amanda, Erin and Emily. Relatives and friends are invited to graveside services, Tuesday, 2
 ROSENBERGER - Leo. On December 17, 2005, at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Garald E. Rosenberger. Loving mother of Joann Lang and Gerrie Soman, and their husbands, Robert Todd Lang and Roger D. Soman. Cherished grandmother of William Gerald Lang, James David Lang, Nancy Lang Adler, Carol
 STURGIS--Nancy Dahn. Born July 7, 1924, passed away at age 81 on Thursday, December 15, 2005 in Manhattan where she had lived her entire life. She leaves behind two daughters, Lisa Sturgis of Stamford, CT and Victoria Sturgis Neely of Manhattan, two grandchildren, Henry and Carolina Neely o
 ROSENFELD--Shirley Otter. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Shirley Otter Rosenfeld, a member of JTS's Board of Trustees. A generous, dedicated member of the Jewish community, Mrs. Rosenfeld will be dearly missed. May all her family be comforted among the mourner
 BAIG--Shirley. Born in 1921 in Canada she lived most of her life in the New York metropolitan area. Shirley passed away on Sunday, December 18 in Santa Monica, California. She is survived by her sister Dell Looney, her nieces Karen Byrd and Anne Greene and her nephew David Brown. Shirley wo
 DeFINE--Ruth (nee Sonnenschein). December 20, 2005. Beloved wife of 69 years of Robert. Devoted mother of her pet Tucky. Long time resident and friend of many at 47 E 87th St. NY and Seaview, Fire Island. She was a true original. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell 1076 Madison Avenue at 
 ROSENBERGER - Leo. On December 17, 2005, at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Garald E. Rosenberger. Loving mother of Joann Lang and Gerrie Soman, and their husbands, Robert Todd Lang and Roger D. Soman. Cherished grandmother of William Gerald Lang, James David Lang, Nancy Lang Adler, Carol
 TURNER -- Edith Candace Rosenblatt, 100. Died peacefully in her sleep on December 19, 2005. Loving wife of the late Al, beloved mother of her adored Jon, and Margaret Helfand. Loving sister of the late Rose, Ben, Sonia, Jen, Will. Beloved aunt to Ruth Turner. Adored adopted mother and grand
 ROSENFELD--Shirley Otter. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Shirley Otter Rosenfeld, the mother of Gerald Rosenfeld, a member of JTS's Board of Trustees. A generous, dedicated member of the Jewish community, Mrs. Rosenfeld will be dearly missed. May all her famil
 BRONSON--Fay. Tireless fundraiser for Camp Sussex for over 50 years, she will be missed by all.       
 IRWIN--Sylvia On December 20, 2005 in her 88th year. Widow of Louis Irwin; mother of David Irwin (Sandy) and Dr. Marc Irwin (Effie Fletcher); grandmother of Dr. Meredith Irwin (Dr. Micheal Ohh), Lawrence James Irwin and Tara Alexandra Fletcher - Irwin; great grandmother Lauren Brooke Ohh; a
 SAVARESE--Connie (nee Di Palma) of Northport on December 20th, 2005 in her 95th year. Loving wife of the late Michael. Devoted mother of Carole Castagnoli & her husband William, Joanna Lesser and her husband Lawrence and the late Catherine D'Errico & her husband Peter. Devoted to her seven 
 SCHNEIDER--Bella. 93, Polish immigrant of Manhattan, painter and good Samaritan, a kindly, generous woman of rare character, principle, and integrity, a beloved fixture of the West 57th Street community, devoted wife to late husband Dave Schneider, at Good Samaritan Hospital of Suffern, NY,
 TURNER -- Edith Candace Rosenblatt, 100. Died peacefully in her sleep on December 19, 2005. Loving wife of the late Al, beloved mother of her adored Jon, and Margaret Helfand. Loving sister of the late Rose, Ben, Sonia, Jen, Will. Beloved aunt to Ruth Turner. Adored adopted mother and grand
 VIETOR--Anna Glen. Died peacefully at home in NYC, surrounded by her children on December 20, 2005. Funeral service to be announced.       
 BROONES -- Carolyn (nee Stanton). Passed away December 21, age 93. Beloved wife of Dr. Otto Broones, cherished mother of Jane Radnay. Treasured grandmother of Dr. Craig Radnay and Richard Radnay Esq. She was always there for all of us and will never be forgotten.       
 GORDEAN -- Marie Ethel (Meg). Passed away in her sleep on November 9th. Born in California in 1930, she attended Mt. St. Mary's Girls School and Brandeis University. An ATPAM member, she worked in PR for over four decades. Clients included The Alvin Ailey Dance Company, and The Metropolitan
 HARBER--Edith. On December 22, 2005. Beloved mother of Sally Michaels and Arlene Serlen, beloved mother-inlaw of Leonard Michaels and Dennis Serlen. Cherished grandmother of Judd and Melissa Serlen, and Brad and Sara Serlen. Adored wife of the late Jerome. Devoted sister of Ruth Weinstein, 
 KLEIN--Sylvia F. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Seena and the late Edward Parker, Maxene & Steve Greenspan. Adored Bubbie of Jeremy, Adam and Janis. Caring aunt. Pillar of the Workmen's Circle, active member of the UFT and the Forward Association. Funeral Monday, Decembe
 SEGAL--Helen. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our friend and member, Mrs. Helen Segal. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 VIETOR--Anna Glen. Died peacefully at home in NYC, surrounded by her children on December 20, 2005. Funeral service is at St. Bartholomew's Church, January 3, at 11 AM. David Vietor, Richard Vietor, Louise Oliver, Polly Sheehan, Sandy Vietor, Martha Glass $(6$)VIETOR--Anna Glen Butl
 CHERNIN - Rheta. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend, died on December 22, 2005. She was 77. Throughout her life, in deep and loving partnership with her husband Albert (who was Executive of JCPA) Mrs. Chernin worked passionately for Israel, women's and civil rights, and for Soviet
 POWELL--Jane. Executive Director and cofounder of Shofar Synagogue in Los Angeles, passed away on Saturday, December 17, 2005 after a battle with pancreatic cancer. She had also served as Executive Director and was co-founder of the Synagogue for the Performing Arts. Born on February 28, 19
 SPEAR--Esther (nee Marcus) On December 21, 2005, 107 years old, in Providence, R.I. Loving wife of the late Alfred Spear, proud mother of Harvey M. of New York, L. William of Miami, FL. and Dr. Gerald S. of Newport Beach, CA. and the late Evelyn and Arthur, and her daughters-inlaw Ruth, Shi
 VIETOR--Anna Glen Butler. On December 20, 2005 at home. She is survived by her six children, David, Richard, Alexander W., Anna Louise Vietor Oliver, Pauline Vietor Sheehan, and Martha Vietor Glass, 23 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. Her husband, Alexander Orr Vietor, and a sevent
 BROONES -- Carolyn (nee Stanton). Passed away December 21, age 93. Beloved wife of Dr. Otto Broones, cherished mother of Jane Radnay. Treasured grandmother of Dr. Craig Radnay and Richard Radnay Esq. She was always there for all of us and will never be forgotten.       
 GUDIS--Lucille. The Jewish Genealogical Society mourns the untimely passing of former Vice President and longtime Executive Council member Lucille Gudis. Her tireless and generous devotion to the needs of the Jewish genealogical community, her genealogical expertise and inspiration, her war
 McELWAIN--Ruth. 81, aka Beverly Gray, died on December 8, at Holy Cross Hospital, Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Ruth was known for her singing for over 30 years and an advocate for animal rights. Burial at Locust Valley, NY       
 SEGAL--Helen (nee Verby). Our dear sister, who lived her life with grace and style, and always did it her way. We will forever cherish her memory and the many years we shared together. Marjorie and Stanley       
 KEENE--Constance. Pianist, teacher, inspiration. She is survived by her husband, Milton Kean; her grandnephew, Justin Fried; her adopted niece, Victoria L. Phillips; her adopted nephew, Christopher Phillips; and her musical proteges at Manhattan School of Music and throughout the world. Ser
 LEVY--Barbara. Age 84, died December 24, 2005 at her home in New York City; daughter of Dr. Robert L. Levy and Beatrice Straus Levy. She leaves her beloved sister Jessica Levy and her brother Gerald D. Levy, sister-in-law Marion F. Levy and nieces Alison Ryan, Elizabeth Levy Ward and nephew
 OSBORNE--Ann. 97, hat designer extraordinare, a wizard with the stitch. Beloved wife of the late noted voice teacher, Seymour Osborne. Devoted mother of former broadcast news executive and Cuomo Administration Communication official, Steven. She was always there for me, her loving son, Stev
 VIETOR--Anna Glen Butler. On December 20, 2005 at home. She is survived by her six children, David, Richard, Alexander W., Anna Louise Vietor Oliver, Pauline Vietor Sheehan, and Martha Vietor Glass, 23 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. Her husband, Alexander Orr Vietor, and a sevent
 BULLITT--Katharine ''Kay'' Stammers, 91 died peacefully Friday December 23 at her home in Louisville, KY She was the widow of Thomas Walker Bullitt and is survived by her daughter, Virginia Hoare; two sons, Frederick and Mark Menzies and their families. Funeral services will be held Wednesd
 Selma Jeanne Cohen, a historian, editor and teacher who devoted her career to proclaiming dance an art worthy of the same scholarly respect traditionally awarded to painting, music and literature, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 85. The cause was complicatio
 AUERBACH--Gladys B., 88, of Rye, NY. Predeceased in 1999 by her beloved husband of 58 years, Harry M. Auerbach. Survived by her devoted children Kenneth and Susan (Weisenberg) and Jane (Auerbach) and Neal Gelfand & her adoring grandchildren, Philip and Peter Auerbach and Allie and Laura Gel
 BARNARD--Jessica Wakem. Of Vero Beach, FL., passed away on December 24, 2005 after a lengthy battle with cancer. She was the loving wife of Doug, cherished mother of Dick (Marian), Bob (Katie), Helen and Tommy (Chrissy) and devoted grandmother of Andrew, Grace, Dougie, Mallory, Brendan, Pat
 COHEN -- Selma Jeanne, Ph.D. On December 23, 2005. Funeral services private. A public memorial service will be announced at a later date. Contributions in her name may be made to the Jerome Robbins Dance Division, New York Public Library-Performing Arts, Lincoln Center.       
 GERSTER--Joan McCreery. Passed away on Christmas eve at her home in Greenwich, CT. She was 86. She was the daughter of Dr. John A. McCreery and Eileen Ravenshaw McCreery. She was predeceased by her twin sister Lalande Keeshan and her sister Sheila Jackson. She is survived by her husband of 
 HUNT--Cathi Morgan. December 25, 2005, age 66, of New York, NY. She died after a brief hospital stay following a fall and a fractured pelvis. Her passing was quick and she suffered little, comforted by her family. Beloved mother to two sons, Kevin and Ron. She is also survived by her mother
 KEENE -- Constance. The Manhattan School of Music mourns the loss of Constance Keene, esteemed member of the faculty since 1969, who also served as former chair of the School's piano department, and since 1997 was a member of its Board of Trustees. As one of the world's leading concert pian
 LAFRENZ -- Nancy Jacobs. On December 26, 2005, our loving, creative, fiercely independent and gentle Nancy died at home in the company of her beloved husband, Spencer, and devoted parents, Michael and Leslee. Nancy is also survived by brother, Robert, and the Lafrenz family--Andy, Diane, St
 WEISS--Stephanie nee Thurnauer. Passed away on December 25 after a long struggle with Parkinson's disease. We will remember Stephanie most for her energy and enthusiasm, for life even in the face of many obstacles and her commitment to her family. She was generous with her time and attentio
 Constance Keene, a pianist and teacher whose recordings of the Romantic keyboard repertory were highly regarded, died on Dec. 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 84, and lived in Manhattan. Her death was announced by Debra Kinzler, the spokeswoman for the Manhattan School of Music, w
 ALLEN--Marge (nee Meisel). Of Ellington, Connecticut and Palm Beach, Florida, died December 24, 2005 at the age of 79. Beloved wife of 50 years of Matthew, loving mother of Steven and mother-in-law of Gretchen and adoring grandmother of Rebecca. A native New Yorker, she worked in the televi
 AUERBACH--Gladys B., 88, of Rye, NY. Predeceased in 1999 by her beloved husband of 58 years, Harry M. Auerbach. Survived by her devoted children Kenneth and Susan (Weisenberg) and Jane (Auerbach) and Neal Gelfand & her adoring grandchildren, Philip and Peter Auerbach and Allie and Laura Gel
 AUSTIN--Lisbet. On December 27, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Loving mother of Eve (Steven) Yavers. Cherished grandmother of Alana and Jared. Dear sister of the late Rose Winkler. A wonderful woman who will always be remembered by all those whose lives she touched. Services Wednesd
 BLUMENFELD--Inge. On December 20, 2005. Loving aunt of Monica & Susan Edinger. Dear sister of the late Hanni Edinger. Devoted cousin. She will be deeply missed.       
 COHEN--Sylvia. We at Muss Development Company are grieved at the passing of Sylvia Cohen, wife of our long time associate and friend Charlie Cohen. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children and grandchildren.       
 FASS--Edythe. Beloved wife of the late Charles Fass and sister of Judith Greissman, Edythe was a brave, spirited woman, with a passion for literature and friendship. She was struck down in a tragic accident on Dec. 25 at age 70. Her shocking death leaves a void in countless lives.       
 KEENE - Constance. The Manhattan School of Music mourns the loss of Constance Keene, esteemed member of the faculty since 1969, who also served as former chair of the School's piano department, and since 1997 was a member of its Board of Trustees. As one of the world's leading concert piani
 MURDOCK--Madeleine (nee Huntington). Died peacefully at home, December 25, 2005. She is survived by daughter, Pamela and stepdaughter, Catherine, and was predeceased by husband, Lewis, and daughter, Frances. A Memorial Service will be held at 11 A.M., Friday, January 6, at St. Lukes Episcop
 ZEKELMAN--Wanda Ruth. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community of Windsor, Ontario, Canada, who, with her late husband, Harry Zekelman, was a YU Guardian. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children, Alan (and Lori) Zekelman, a Ye
 KEENE - Constance. The House of Steinway & Sons deeply mourns the passing of the eminent American pianist Constance Keene, in New York City on December 24, 2005 at the age of 84. Constance Keene was a treasured member of our family of Steinway Artists for fiftytwo years. Early in her career
 MURDOCK--Madeleine (nee Huntington). Died peacefully at home, December 25, 2005. She is survived by daughter, Pamela and stepdaughter, Catherine, and was predeceased by husband, Lewis, and daughter, Frances. A Memorial Service will be held at 11 A.M., Friday, January 6, at St. Lukes Episcop
 ULLMAN--Susie Press. December 28, 2005. Loving daughter of Herman and Selma Press. Loving mother of Nancy, Alex and Daniel. Cherished grandmother of Adam, Natasha, Audrey, Kyra, Nathan and Nicholas. Devoted sister of Michael and devoted sister-in-law of Barbara. She will be deeply missed by
 CAMERON--Katharine Torrey. Of East Hampton and New York, passed away on December 27 after a hardfought battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife to the late William Allan Cameron, her life was defined by her devotion to family and friends, and by her many active interests. A long-time accred
 EPSTEIN--Beatrice. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Devoted mother of Phyllis, Janet (Jeff Gilbert), and Barry. Adored grandmother of Aaron and Benjamin and stepgrandmother of Cooper Gilbert. Dear sister-in-law of Esther Carro. Services Friday, December 30, 2005 at 1:30PM at the ''Riverside-
 JAFFE--Marcia Paris.76, of Norwalk, CT, died peacefully at home on December 24th. Mrs. Jaffe was born in Troy, NY, the daughter of Harry and Helen Paris. She graduated from Curry College in Boston and was an accomplished pianist and choral singer. As a charter member of the Fairfield County
 KEENE - Constance. The House of Steinway & Sons deeply mourns the passing of the eminent American pianist Constance Keene, in New York City on December 24, 2005 at the age of 84. Constance Keene was a treasured member of our family of Steinway Artists for fiftytwo years. Early in her career
 LEWBELL--Elaine D. (nee Drucker). On Wednesday, December 28th Elaine passed away peacefully at the age of 95. Beloved wife of the late Kenneth Lewbell. Loving mother of Carol and Gary. Cherished grandmother of Erik, Christopher and Julia. She lived her life with grace and style and always d
 MILLER--Shirley (nee Buchsbaum). Beloved mother of Bruce and Barbara, cherished mother-in-law of Etta Miller and James Alleman, died peacefully in Boulder, Colorado early on December 27, 2005. Devoted wife of Harold C. Miller deceased in 1979. Loving grandmother to Ira and Bo, she is deeply
 SLOAN -- Helen Farr. 1911-2005, died peacefully at the age of 94 on December 13th in Wilmington, DE. Born February 24th in New York City to the late Dr. Charles Farr and Helen Woodhull Farr, Helen enrolled at the age of 16 in the New York Art Students League where she first met and studied 
 WOLINSKY--Dr. Gloria F. Died peacefully at home in New York City, surrounded by her family on December 15, 2005. Dr. Wolinsky was a Professor Emeritus at Hunter College of the City of New York and a former Chairperson of the Education Foundation. Beloved wife of the late Marvin Wolinsky, lo
 Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan
 BLUMENKOPF--Lola. Age 79, of Sewickley, PA. died on December 29, 2005 after a long illness. Devoted and beloved mother of Mindy Blumenkopf Hilson and Bennett Blumenkopf, and most loving grandmother to Rebecca and Paul Blumenkopf, and Samantha Hilson. She is also survived by her sister Sylvi
 CAMERON--Katharine Torrey. Of East Hampton and New York, passed away on December 27 after a hardfought battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife to the late William Allan Cameron, her life was defined by her devotion to family and friends, and by her many active interests. A long-time accred
 HASS--Helen B. Died peacefully on December 29, 2005 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Nathan Hass and devoted mother of Lawrence Hass and Carol Goldman (Myron). Proud grandmother of Joanna, David and Lindsay Hass and Dr. Robert T. Goldman, Pamela Goldman Feldman (Gerald) an
 KEENE - Constance. The House of Steinway & Sons deeply mourns the passing of the eminent American pianist Constance Keene, in New York City on December 24, 2005 at the age of 84. Constance Keene was a treasured member of our family of Steinway Artists for fiftytwo years. Early in her career
 MAKOFSKY--Florence. Died December 29, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Hyman Makofsky. Loving mother of Barry & Jennifer Makofsky, Norma and Robert Goldberg, grandmother of Suzanne, David, Stephen, Steve, Liz, Michael and Hope. Greatgrandmother of Olivia and Tyler. A devoted beautiful lady. S
 TOMBELAINE -- Verdalee Norris. Passed away December 26, 2005 at Sentara Leigh Hospital in Norfolk, VA. She lived at 340 East 64th Street in New York for many years. She loved the city and enjoyed an active life there. Family and friends will gather in Sanford, NC, at a later date to celebra
 Rona Jaffe, the preternaturally youthful writer whose 1958 novel ''The Best of Everything'' told the melodramatic story of four nubile, cashmere-sweatered career girls torn between storybook romance and cutthroat corporate Manhattan, died yesterday at University College Hospital in London, 
