 BLUNT - Helen Phillips. On, December 27, 1996 in Falmouth, ME. Born in Pittsburgh, PA. Daughter of the late John Hartley & Bessie Lew Phillips. She and her husband of 48 years, William W. Blunt, lived in New York City, Scarsdale, N.Y. and Ridgefield, CT. Mrs. Blunt moved to New Canaan, CT. 
 DENES - Dr. Magda. It is with deep sorrow that the Faculty, Graduates and Canadidates of the New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis mourn the untimely death of Magda Denes, PhD, on esteemed faculty member and supervisor in our Program. Her commitment to
 FINLAY - Simonne (nee Perrier). Died on 12/31/96. Born in Paris 4/8/10. Predeceased by her husband Edward A. Finlay. Dear sister of Paulette Boudet. Loving mother of Edward Finlay of Bloomfield, NJ, Daniel Finlay of Ithaca, NY, Jacques Finlay of Pike, NJ, and Maureen Jaimes of Scarsdale, NY
 LEWIS - Sally. Cherished mother of our dearest friend Madeleine. We extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family and grieve with them for their loss. Honie and Jerry       
 SALEH - Sabiha. Our warm and loving Nana left us on December 29. We mourn our loss and we will miss her cherry presence: Daughters Claire, Joyce, Tina and Yvonne; grandchildren Karen, Robert, Steven, Nina, Susan, Julie, Peter and Elizabeth; great-grandchildren Roxanne, Kendra, Ben, Travis, 
 WOLINS - Sarah Emily. On Sunday December 29, 1996, at her home in Sog Harbor, NY. Beloved friend of Michael Blake, devoted daughter of Joseph Wolins, of New York, adored sister of Richard Lazoor, of Tarrytown, N.Y. David Lazoor, of the Bronx, NY, & John Wolins, of Philadelphia, PA. Sarah Wo
 Sybil Primis, the mother of Lance R. Primis, the former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, L.I. Mrs. Primis, who lived in Valley Stream, L.I., was 87. Mrs. Primis, the former Sybil Schiller, was 
 LEARSON - Gladys M. Died on December 29, 1996 in Naples, FL. Beloved wife of the late T. Vincent Learson. Loving mother of Martha Allen, Kate Emmerling, Elizabeth Daniels and Elaine Schoch. Beloved grandmother of Russell G. Scott, Craig, Lucien, Douglas, Nina, Lisa, Andrew, and Adrien. Repo
 LOW - Shirley Agnes. December 18, 1996. Loving daughter of Irene Welan. Loving cousin of Rhonda and her husband David Holt. Memorial service Tuesday, January 7, 1997 3:30 PM Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St.       
 ATLAS, Sydel F. On December 22, 1996, in Chicago, Il. Beloved wife of the late Mortimer Atlas. Dear mother of the late James Atlas and cherished mother-in-law of Peggy Atlas. Adored sister of Dorothy Mason and Mildren Waldbaum and devoted sister-in-law of Marcus D. Mason. she is survived by
 CROSS - Jeanette W. 83, of Delray Beach, FL. died on Wednesday, January 1, 1997, at her home following an extended illness. Mrs. Cross had been a resident fo the Palm Beach area since 1984, coming here from Greenwich, CT. She was a member of the American Kennel Club and served as Judge in d
 FRIMAN - Charlotte (Novodoff). On Jan. 1, 1997. Dearest wife of Lean. Loving mother of Irwin and Leslie, Elliot and Patrizia. Adoring grandmother to Camilla and Francesca. Dear sister of Frieda. She will be deeply missed by all of us. Services Fri. 10 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Ams
 JACOBI - Susan G. On January 1, 1997, in New York City. Beloved and cherished daughter of Margaret Jacobi Fidanque. Wonderful stepdaughter of the late Benjamin D. Fidanque. Adored sister of Harold, Wendy and Margaret Lynne. Loving aunt of Kerry and Meg Jacobi and Crysti and Patrick Laney. D
 NADOSY - Ema, on December 29, 1996 of Water Mill, NY at 86 years. Formerly of Gyugy, Hungary. Survived by her daughter Alexa Illich Nadosy of New York City. She is also survived by her granddaughters, Monica Illich Vogelstein, Marina Illich and Meghan, Andrea and Lara Nadosy.       
 RODAL - Mina. On December 31, 1996, in her 72nd year. It was too soon. For 50 years beloved wife of Alexander, cherished mother and best friend to daughter Gail (Jeff), and son Dr. Stewart (Marsha), devoted grandmother to Joshua, David, Alison and Carolyn. Loving aunt to Steve Goldman, and 
 SOLOMON - Amy Marcus. 1959-1994. Loving mother, daughter, wife, and friend. Today is her 38th Birthday and we all hold dear her places in our lives.  ''Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye,  In every gesture dignity and love.''       
 Katharine Homer Fryer, an artist, teacher and writer who devoted much of her later life to the mentally disturbed, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said. At he
 CLARK, Mona (nee Christie). 24 March 1921-28 December 1996. Mona will be remembered with love, fondness and admiration by all who knew her. Devoted mother of her sons Christie and Russell. She was a Peace Crops volunteer in 1970-1972, which is just one example of a source of warmth and prid
 CONROY - Louis J., of Hampton Bays, formerly of Dyker Heights, New York, on January 2, 1997. Retired Manager Banking Service Department, Federal Reserve Bank of NY. Beloved husband of the late Romilda; loving father of Patricia McGovern and her husband Joseph; dear brother of Katherine Conr
 FRIMAN - Charlotte. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Charlotte Friman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi  Martin I. Klein, President       
 GHIRON - Anna, age 91, died on Friday, December 20th, 1996 at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mrs. Ghiron was born in Torino, Italy, the daughter of the late Abramo and Rina Treves. Mrs. Ghiron was predeceased by her husband Marco Ghiron in March, 1988, and is survived by a daughter, two sons, eight g
 HEIMAN - HAZLE, died Dec. 28, joining her beloved husband, Henry. She leaves a son, Peter, and a granddaughter, Heidi. May she find peace. May we find peace.       
 JACOBI - Susan G. On January 1, 1997, in New York City. Beloved and cherished daughter of Margaret Jacobi Fidanque. Wonderful stepdaughter of the late Benjamin D. Fidanque. Adored sister of Harold, Wendy and Margaret Lynne. Loving aunt of Kerry and Meg Jacobi and Crystil and Patrick Laney. 
 Marie Torre, a former television columnist for The New York Herald Tribune who was jailed for refusing to disclose a source in a libel action, died on Friday at Health South Rehabilitation Hospital of Greater Pittsburgh in Monroeville, Pa. She was 72 and lived in Salem, N.J. She die
 BERMAN - Miriam. Beloved wife of the late Samuel and Jerome B. Katz. This independent, fiesty woman, born 1900, died January 2, and will be missed by her children Jerome B. Katz, Jr. and Suzanne Geller, her daughter-in-law Louisa and son-in-law Daniel Geller, five grandchildren, seven great
 CORWIN-TURNER - Florence (nee Baumi), 87, of Cranbury, NJ, on Jan. 4, 1997. Beloved mother of Roberta Meyers, Ronald Corwin, Marlyn Friedman, Stuart turner. Florence was a dear and devoted sister to Theresa Baumi and a cherished aunt to Martin Duberman. She was a loving, devoted and dear gr
 FRIMAN - Charlotte. Our sincere condolences to Leon, Elliot and family. We will all miss Charlotte. She was a woman of distinction and elegance. Her beauty graced all of us.  Saul, Patty and the entire Fraiman  Associates Family       
 FRYER - Katharine Homer, accomplished writer, teacher and artist, and widow of Prof. Douglas Fryer. The faculty, students and alumni of New York University's Psychology Department express sympathy to her family and gratitude for the seminal contributions made to NYU Psychology by Prof. Frye
 GERBER - Evelyn C. Survived by her husband and friend of 49 years, Charles S. and her devoted and loving son, Charles Waas; his wife, the darling of her life, Silvia; her granddaughter Ashley Waas Gerber, who brought life, cheer and comfort to her through her year long illness. The daughter
 KANE - Janet (nee Pompan), 75, December 27, 1996. She died after a long and courageous battle with emphysema. Beloved mother of Alison and mother-in-law of Marc Zarowin. Loving aunt of Barbara Elberger and Susan Hallowell, and cousin of Robert Gardiner. She attended Smith College, and earne
 KLEIN - Dorothy (Woloson). Age 100, in West Palm Beach, FL. on December 31. Devoted and adored wife of the late Henry J. Mother of Roberta Courtman (David M.) and Joan Brauer (Jay Z.), grandmother to David Brauer and Lisa Brauer Eisenstat, great-grandmother to Sophie. Endowed with unsual st
 LEWIS - Sally (nee Naroff), on December 29, in her 84th year. Devoted wife of the late Samuel L. Lewis; adoring mother of Joan Lewis, Madeleine and Jack Kem, Gayle and Mitchell Levison; and loving friend of Shula Fever. Very special grandma to Lowell and Jill Kern, Russell Kern, Danielle (L
 SEIDMAN - Herta L. of Manhattan, on January 3, 1997. Born Romania 1939. President of the Soros Business and Management Foundation, former Assistant Secretary of U.S. Dept. of Commerce, and former Deputy Commissioner of NY State Dept. of Commerce. Partner in life and wife of Samuel N. Seidma
 SPATZ - Mary Agnes. 94. Formerly of New York City. Died in her home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Harry C. Spatz. Reposing at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Mon, January 6th, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Entombment Saint John's Cloister, Middle Village, Queens, NY Tues, 11:30 AM. 
 BOLSON - Louise, age 94. Died December 27 in Pompano Beach, Fl. Beloved wife of the late Harry Bolson. Until their retirement in 1969, prominent retailer of Oriental and European rugs at J.H. Dildarian, Inc. the 80 year old Madison Avenue store founded by her first husband, Jacques Dildaria
 HOFFMAN - Doris Stoll. Beloved wife of Stephen and mother of Aaron and Judith. Dearest daughter of Samuel and Lillian and sister of Robert and Alice. Dedicated attorney and loving family leader. Funeral services Monday, January 6, 1:15 PM, IJ. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Ave. at Ave. L. Brooklyn.
 HOWARD - Kaplan - Miriam Passed away peacefully at home in West Palm Beach, FL. January 4, in her 86th year. Beloved wife of the late Jack Kaplan and the late Herman Howard. Dear mother of Dorothy Love of Philadelphia and Bunny Rattner of NYC. Dear grandmother (Mom-Mom) of Sherry Gressen, M
 SHARLACH - Florence (nee Kemp). On January 5 at 94 years. Devoted wife of the late Moses. Beloved mother of Frances (William) Goldrich and Jerome (Helen) Sharlach. Cherished by her five grandchildren and her eight great-children. Also survived by her loving brother Charlie Kemp. Services Tu
 Catherine Scorsese, the mother of the film director Martin Scorsese, who cast her in several of his films, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 84. Mrs. Scorsese, the daughter of Sicilian immigrants, was born on Elizabeth Street in Little Italy,
 ASTLEY-BELL - Rita Duis. Age 91. Died suddenly, January 2, 1997 at The Admiral, Chicago. Survived by her daughter, Wendy Astley-Bell Fisher, of Chicago. Burial services will be private at Highland Park Cemetery, Alexandria Bay, NY. No memorial service. In lieu of flowers, please send contri
 COHEN - Rosalyn, of Brooklyn, NY. Died December 28, 1996. Beloved wife of Perry, mother of Karen and Amy, mother-in-law of Ira, grandmother of Sam and Lola, sister of Miriam and Claire. She was a woman of great style, elegance and character.       
 COOPER - Phyllis (nee Wolfson). Adored wife, cherished mother, beloved grandmother, dear sister and sister-in-law and loyal friend to many for a lifetime. Died January 6 after a valiant battle with cancer. A most generous lady who gave willingly of herself and asked for nothing in return. S
 DANIELS - Marlene D. Internationally known and respected maritime lawyer, on Jan. 5, 1997. Daughter of Eleanor and the late Joseph H. Daniels, sister of Sheryl, Bonnie, and Joanne. She enriched the lives of everyone who had the privilege to know her and will be sorely missed. Memorial servi
 ENGEL - Barbara R. On January 5, 1997. At her home in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Born in New York, long time resident of Mamaroneck, NY and, for the past 52 years, a devoted sailing companion to her husband Morton. A loving mother to her daughters Susan and Patsy. She lived with a zest for life an
 GOLDEN - Margaret. In memory and gratitude to our dear, loyal friend. May she rest in peace.  Bernice, Gene and Neal       
 HOWARD-KAPLAN - Miriam Passed away peacefully at home in West Palm Beach, FL, January 4, in her 86th year. Beloved wife of the late Jack Kaplan and the late Herman Howard. Dear mother of Dorothy Love of Philadelphia and Bunny6 Rattner of NYC. Dear grandmother (Mom-Mom) of Sherry Gressen, Ma
 KRAMPF - Karen, 48, on Jan. 5, 1997 after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of Ira, cherished mother of Brian and Wendy, devoted sister of Ron and Leslie, dear daughter-in-law of Etta and sister-in-law of Sandy. She will live in our hearts forever. Services ''Gutterma
 O'SHAUGHNESSY - Kathryn. Beloved daughter of Jerome (Terry) and Jeanne (nee Condon). Loving sister of Terrence, Jeanne Marie Freisen, Mary Beth O'Donnell, Thomas and the late Robert. Cherished aunt of seven. Funeral, Thur, 8:30am from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Rd, Brooklyn.
 RAUCH - Julia. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Howard and Helen and the late Audrey. Cherished grandmother of Laurie and Jeffrey Corben and Andrew Rauch. Great-grandmother of Justin. Dear sister of Lillian Sussman. She'll be missed by all who loved and respected her. Service
 Casey Miller, a writer and editor who was a pioneering advocate of nonsexist language, died on Sunday at her home in East Haddam, Conn. She was 77. Kate Swift, her close friend and co-author, said the cause of death was chronic obstructive lung disease. Beginning in the earl
 Marlene D. Daniels, a noted expert on maritime law and a partner in the New York law firm of Seward & Kissel, where she headed the maritime finance department, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Patricia M. Hynes, a friend, said.    
 BONAMUSA - Josephine A. passed away on January 6, 1997. She was born February 8, 1922 in Sada de Arriba La Caruna, Spain. She is survived by her daughter Betty and son John. She has five loving grandchildren; Carolyn, Michael, Deborah, Laura and Jessica. She volunteered at the international
 DE MOTT - Helen. Painter, poet, friend to many, died 1/1/97 at 76. She is remembered for her community work in the East Village. She was greatly admired as a painter. A memorial and exhibit is being planned.       
 FEINSTEIN - Alex. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Paula Feinstein on the loss of her beloved husband Alex. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.  Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi  Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 O'SHAUGHNESSY - Kathryn. The ovarian cancer support groups at SHARE express deep sorrow at the loss of our dear friend and member, Kathy. She was an inspiration to us all and will live in our hearst forever. O'SHAUGHNESSY - Kathryn. Colleague, friend and esteemed clinician. She will
 URSTADT - Susan Powers. On January 5, 1997, after a heroic fight with leukemia, at home in New Canaan, CT. attended by husband Jeffrey and children Elizabeth, Bryant, and Jordan. She was founder of the Susan P. Urstadt Literary Agency. Service of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 11 AM,
 Herta Lande Seidman, who headed two philanthropic foundations and was a former senior trade official in the Carter Administration, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of pancreatic cancer, her family said. She was 58. Ms. Seidman, who had lived in Manhattan sinc
 AUBRY - Leticia Costa Aubry, died peacefully on January 4, 1997, beloved wife of Stephen Aubry for 56 years, loving mother of Alan and Christian and devoted grandmother of Vanessa and Olivia. The funeral look place in St.-Prex in the presence of close family members. A mass will be celebrat
 BERNSTEIN - Naomi L. of Riverdale, NY, passed away January 8, 1997. Survived by her three loving children, Darra, Gregg and David; her mother. Lydia Rosen; brother and sister-in-law, Steven and Jennifer Rosen; grandmother, Jennie Grabel, and her beloved aunt, Rita Steinhardt. She was loved 
 COWAN - Yetta Honig (nee Susskind), 91, widow of Samuel M. Honig and Harold Cowan, formerly of Bayonne, NJ and Ft. Lauderdale, FL. on Jan 8, in Doylestown, PA. Survived by son Dr. Albert M. Honig and wife Sylvia, daughter Elsa Honig Fine and husband Dr. Harold J. Fine, daughter Doris Honig 
 DANIELS - Marlene D. The members of the Admiralty/Finance Forum mourn the passing of our beloved friend and tireless co-founder, and extend deepest condolences to her family. Marlene was a consummate professional colleague and unfailing source of inspiration and guidance. She will always li
 FIPPINGER - Grace J. passed away peacefully on Monday, January 6 after a prolonged illness. Daughter of the late Fred and Johanna Fippinger, Grace is survived by her sister, Irene Bastiano and many friends. A resident of Woodbury, NY, graduate of Hicksville High School and St. Lawrence Univ
 FOSKEY - Francina. The staff of Richard Meier & Partners, Architects deeply mourns the passing of Francina Foskey, a longtime, devoted, respected colleague and friend. She was filled with great inner strength and warmth and will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to her hus
 McBane - Day (Bonynge), 88, of Durham, NJ, died Jan. 5, 1997 in NH. Born Aug. 22, 1908, Hoboken, NJ, daughter of Albert W. and Claribel (Messiter) Bonynge. Resided in Bronxville, NY 1965-85. Member of Bronxville Dutch Reform Church , Women's Club and Music Club in Yonkers. Sruvived by her d
 ROGGEN - Tobie B. 87, died on Jan. 8, 1997 at Wesley Care Center. She was born June 26, 1909 in New York city to Harry and Hattie Roggen. Until six months ago she was a lifelong resident of New York. Graveside service, Thursday, Jan. 9, 1997 at 2PM at Union Fields Cemetery, Queens, NY.     
 TEXTOR - Janice, on January 5, 1997, in Jacksonville, Florida, from cancer. Born in West Virginia in 1911, a longtime resident of Garden City and the Thousand Islands. NY, and since 1976 of Tequesta, FL. Wife of the late George C. Textor and mother of Joan Mildrum of Jacksonville, FL. Donal
 URSTADT - Susan Powers. On January 5, 1997 after a heroic fight with leukemia, at home in New Canaan, CT. attended by husband Jeffrey and children Elizabeth, Bryant, and Jordan. She was founder of the Susan P. Urstadt Literary Agency. Service at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 11 AM. 
 MUFSON - Ann (nee Mouser), 61, of Edison, NJ. Survived by her husband, Marvin; her children, Steven and Agnes, Daniel, and Laura and Bennett Leifer; her father, Charles Mouser; her sister, Margery Sabin; and 4 grandchildren. Services Sunday, 1L30 PM, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 R
 SABIN - Joan Ellen, 74, of Manhattan, died January 8, 1997. She is survived by her son, Douglas Waterman (Greta); grandsons, Warren and Wesley, a loving companion, William Leeds. Services are Sunday, 9 AM, Frank E. Campbell's, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St.       
 WIENER - Elizabeth. Lisa, my dearest, closest friend. You were my rock. How I shall miss you. Your memory will always be with me. Stanley and I express our deepest sympathy to Carol and David, and the entire family.  Anne Cembalest WIENER-SCHNUR - Elizabeth. Devoted mother to Carol 
 ZUCKER - Joan, of Fort Lee, New Jersey, after a courageous fight against cancer, on January 9, at age 63. Cherished wife of Leonard. devoted mother of Michael and Caren, adoring grandma of Bejamin, Samuel, Mickey and Daniel, and loving aunt. Joan was a owman who defined the concepts of givi
 Angela Taylor, a former feature writer in the Style department of The New York Times who specialized in beauty and fashion, died on Wednesday at the Riverhead Nursing Home in Riverhead, L.I. Ms. Taylor was 82 and had retired from The Times in 1984. The cause of death was Alz
 DUGGAN - Evelyn K. at Naples, FL. on Jan. 6, 1997, formerly of Wading River, NY at the age of 82. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband, John J. Duggan Jr. in 1980. Survived by many nieces and nephews. Reposing Alexander-Tuthill Funeral Home, Rt. 25A, Wading River, NY Sunday 7-9 PM. Funeral M
 FIPPINGER - Grace J. The Board of Trustees and staff ot he Citizens Budget Commission mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Emeritus. She will be remembered for the significant contribution she made as a Trustee. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her family.  Lawrence B. Buttenwieser,  C
 FRUCHTER - Harriet. The partners and staff of Merdinger Fruchter Rosen & Corso are deeply saddened by the passing of Harriet Fruchter, mother of our esteemed colleague, Len Fruchter. Her vitality, exhuberance and zest for life are an inspiration to all that knew her. Our heartfelt condolenc
 PITSTICK - Ruth Goodall.  Age 71. Of Boca Grande, Florida. Died on January 6, 1997. Daughter of the late Thomas Goodall of Sanford, Maine. She is survived by Virgil lan Pitstick. Memorial services will be offered on Valentine's Day, 2 PM Episcoapl Church, Boca Grande, and on August 18th, 2 
 VERRA - Sr. Mary Basil. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, College of Mt. St. Vincent, on Friday, January 10, 197. Former school teacher at St. Mary's, Rosebank, Staten Island. Volunteered for the last 11 years at Incarnation school. survived by a sister Lucy Cattaro and 2 brothers J
 BLAUNER - Roxane m. January 9, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Altoa, loving mother of John Blauner and Jackie Bruni, devoted sister of the late Robert Mack, dear grandmother of Gregory, Christopher, and Alexandra, great-grandmother of Colin and Griffin. An extraordinary woman, whose love wa
 CLARK, Lilly Wahwer. In loving memory. Born in Riga, Latvia, June 18, 1898, died New York City, Jan. 8, 1997. Ballerina, equestrienne, multilingual, Diplomatic hostess in London, Berlin and Havana. She worked for the Near East Relief in Erivan, America, 1921-1923. She leaves daughter Doris 
 HARTSTEIN - Slyvia. Age 82. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Adored mother of David and Jaclyn, and Samuel and Marian. Loving grandmother of Aimee, Scott, Rachel, Alexandra and Elizabeth. Cherished sister fo Helen Anstendig, Edith Kohn and the late Monroe Koggan. Dear aunt of Ruth, Mark, Da
 LEWIS - Claire J. On Saturday, January 4, 1997, after a hardfought battle with cancer. Goddaughter and lifelong friend of Helen Keller. Made much publicized cross country drive of Hudson Motor Cars to demonstrate the car's reliability and ease with which women could travel Independently and
 LYNCH - Josephine McCarthy. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Adored mother of Louise Lynch Galleshaw, Eileen Lyncgh Hawkins, and Constance Lynch Easley. Loving grandmother of Eileen and Jay Galleshaw, McCarthy and Ryan Hawkins, and Matthew and Kevin Easley. Cherished sister of Margaret McCar
 MAZEL - Vera. On January 4, peacefully of natural causes at her West Side studio of 48 years. She was a noted voice teacher for many singers on Broadway, at the Met and in the movies, including Yul Brynner, Shirley Yamiguichi and Jacques Kayal. Born on Christmas Day, 1906, in St. Peterburg,
 YEE - Jeanne L. 38 years old of Flushing, NY, beloved daughter, sister, and aunt, is survived by her mother Shirley Yee of Brookline, MA, five older brothers and sisters, and ten nieces and nephews. Her greatest accomplishment was her many contributions to the apparel industry, which earned
 Ursula Niebuhr, the founder and longtime chairwoman of the department of religion at Barnard College, died on Friday at her home in Stockbridge, Mass. She was 89 and the widow of the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. Although she was clearly upstaged by her renowned husband, who taught a
 Evelyn Payne Davis, a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women and a former vice president at the Children's Television Workshop, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Davis had suffered from lung cancer for a year, said he
 Katherine Pollak Ellickson, a retired labor economist with a lifelong commitment to the women's and union movements, died on Dec. 28 at the White Sands retirement community in La Jolla, Calif. She was 91 and had lived in Washington until 1978. Ms. Ellickson was long associated with 
 BANCROFT - Mary. Died peacefully in her sleep January 10, 1997, at her home in New York at age 93. She was born in Cambridge, MA, daughter of Hugh Bancroft and Mary Agnes Cogon. She was married to the late Sherwin C. Bodger. They had three children, George who died in infancy, the late Sher
 BRESNICK - Molly L. On January 11. Age 88. Beloved mother of Richard. Loving mother-in-law of Roberta. Devoted grandmother of Edward and Linda. Sister of Rose Shulman. She will be missed by her extended family of nieces and nephews. Services 9:45 AM, Monday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Stree
 BUCHBINDER - Sydel F. On January 11, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. She is survived by her son and daughter-in-law Herbert L. and Bonnie of Overland Park, KS; a sister Evelyn Forbes; sister-in-law and brother-in-law, Doris and Irving Schlitt and sister-in-law Julia Buchbinder, of T
 DUNNE - Ellen Griffin. Of Nogales, AZ. Died on January 9, at Holy Cross Hospital in Nogales after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. Mrs. Dunne was born in Tucson on January 28, 1932, to the late Thomas Francis Griffin and Beatriz Sandoval Griffin of the Yerba Buena Ranch outside Nogale
 GOLD - Alice. On January 9, 1997. She is survived by her brothers Harry and Ben Perse, both of New York; her children Laurence Gold of Washington, DC, and Linda MacCullum of New York; and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 2 PM, Tuesday, January 14, at Frank E. Campbell,
 HARTSTEIN - Sylvia. We wish to extend our hearfelt sympathy to David and Sammy Hartstein and entire family. We will miss her greatly.  Abe and Sylvia Ginsburg       
 HYMAN - Edith Wolfson Barnett. On January 12, 1997. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, 1902. Devoted wife of the late Esmond Barnett and the late Ralph Hymna; dearly bloved and cherished mother of Adele Suslak and Victory J. Barnett and mother-in-law of Helaine Barnett; loving sister of Rosie Wolfs
 MAPEL - Evelyn Raines. Devoted wife of the late William Mapel died peacefully in her home in Bronxville, NY on January 11, 1997 at the age of 91. She is survived by her daughter Lynne Rhinehart of Southern Pines, NC, her son William M.R. Mapel of Darlen, CT, and three grandchildren Daniel, 
 Edna Morris, prominent in thoroughbred racing and social circles for more than 50 years and a major fund-raiser for the Girl Scouts of Greater New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. A son, Alfred (Chappy) Morris, said she had been in failing health for severa
 Helen Foster Snow, who helped bring social change to China in the 1930's, witnessed revolution and war and throughout wrote to promote American-Chinese understanding, died on Saturday at the Fowler Nursing Center in Guilford, Conn. She was 89 and lived in Madison, Conn. In China, sh
 AMORE-Anne M. On January 14, 1997. Beloved wife of Edward, cherished mother of Ann, Edward, Jr., and Glenn, dear mother-in-law of Kae and Phyllis, loving grandmother of Jackie, adored sister of Angelina Zucaro, Carmine Longo, and Antoinette Capo, and devoted aunt to her many nieces and neph
 FURLONG-Joannie. On January 14, 1997 after a five month battle with lung cancer. She was 65. She is survived by her best friend and companion Bill Marshall; her five grandchildren Robbie, Nick, AJ, Kara and Chris; her six children Anni, Charley, Fal, Jacques, ZaZa and Andre. A Funeral Mass 
 GAINES-Sylvia (nee Tomback), January 11, 1997 in White Plains, N.Y. Wife of the late Herman Gaines, she is survived by daughter Julia Hyman and husband Dick, son Edward Gaines and wife Phyllis, brothers Lester and Harry Tomback, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren. She will be mi
 GLADNEY-Margaret Leffingwell, died January 13, 1997, in Damariscotta, ME. Beloved sister of Aillinn Leffingwell Albrecht and the late William M. Leffingwell, Sheila L. Hitchcock, and Ellen L. Grossman. She will be dearly missed by her many nieces and nephews.       
 GUTHRIE-Elizabeth A. The Board of Directors of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation records with deep sorrow the death of our dear friend and colleague on January 13, 1997. We remember her intelligence and strength of purpose, qualities which contributed substantially to the Foundation'
 HOCHSTADT-Harry. Temple Beth Torah offers its deepest condolences to Carol Fliegelman, wife of our beloved Cantor Kal, on the loss of her father, Harry Hochstadt, on January 10th. Our condolences as well to her mother, Sylvia, and her children, Stuart and Jody, and Larry, and to the great-g
 HYMAN-Edith Wolfson Barnett. January 12, 1997. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, 1902. Devoted wife of the late Esmond Barnett and the late Ralph Hyman; dearly beloved and cherished mother of Adele Suslak and Victor J. Barnett and motherin-law of Helaine Barnett; loving sister of Rosie Wolfson Mar
 KATZ-Sandra Brown. On January 13, 1997. Mother of Michael and Melissa. Sister of Judi Brown. Daughter of the late Helen and Meyer Brown. May she rest in peace. Service Thursday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SILVERSTEIN-Etta. On January 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Larry and Klara, and the late Annette. Adoring grandmother of Roger and Liana, Lisa, Sharon and Annette, Laurie, Kevin and Lori, Todd and Julie. Great grandmother of Rachel, Robby, Ariel, Cory, Marty and
 GLASER-Lee Babin. Her friends and associates remember with warm affection and admiration her gaity as a companion, her loyalty as a colleague, her joyous acceptance of life and her unflinching courage in adversity. Muriel Cadel, Joseph Goldberg Bert Rosenberg, Barbara Rudikoff Ruth Samuels,
 GRAHAM-Lucille (nee Lawson), 84, on January 14, 1997. Theatrical manager, novelist. Beloved mother of Lee Lawson and Susan Gray (Arnold Arlow); devoted and beloved grandmother of Christopher Boal, Leslie and Gabriella Bova; loving aunt of Alan Gibson and great-aunt of Jennifer and Julie. Pr
 HYMAN-Edith Wolfson Barnett. January 12, 1997. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, 1902. Devoted wife of the late Esmond Barnett and the late Ralph Hyman; dearly beloved and cherished mother of Adele Suslak and Victor J. Barnett and motherin-law of Helaine Barnett; loving sister of Rosie Wolfson Mar
 KATZ-Sandra. We mourn the passing of Sandra Brown Katz. Our hearts go out to her children Michael and Melissa and her sister Judi. Trudi, Bob, Eric and Jeffrey Mohl       
 LIBERMAN-Rose. The Officers, staff, children and alumni of the Associated Beth-Rivkah SchoolsLubavitch mourns the passing of ''a woman of valor''. From the very beginning of our schools founded by the Rebbe, Rose was at each side and remained so as the great supporter and dedicated caring f
 McCAIN-Jane Murtagh, died November 26, 1996 in Pinehurst, NC. Mrs. McCain was born on January 22, 1910 in West Chester, PA. She graduated from the Shipley School, Bryn Mawr, PA., in 1927 and from La Lierre, in Paris, in 1928. She was married to Samuel Adams McCain, general counsel of Corn P
 MINICK-Lottie. Devoted wife of Irving. Dearly beloved and cherished mother of Sheila Berger and Arlene Minick. Mother-in-law of Sid Berger. Adored grandmother of Felecia and Steve Rozansky and Paula and Jeffrey Berger. Dear great grandmother of Daniel and Eric Rozansky. Loving aunt to many 
 SERWITZ-Ruth. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Wednesday, January 15. She will be missed. Services will be held in Delray Beach, Florida on Friday, January 17, 2 P.M., at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, 580
 SILVERSTEIN-Etta. New York University's School of Continuing Education and its Real Estate Institute extend sincere condolences to the Institute's founder and Chairman Emeritus, Larry A. Silverstein, and his family on the death of his mother, Etta. Through the influence of her warmth, stren
 TURETZKY-Ann C. Died peacefully on January 16, 1997 at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City. Born in Poland to Bertha and Nathan Turetzky, she emigrated with her family to New York City where she attended various art schools and pursued a life-long interest in painting and jewelry design. Sh
 Annette Markoe Schieffelin, widow of William Jay Schieffelin Jr., a former chairman of Schieffelin & Company, died on Thursday in Lenox Hill Hospital. Mrs. Schieffelin, of the Upper East Side of Manhattan and Ashville, Me., was 99. Her husband, who died in 1985, was a direct descend
 Elspeth Huxley, a witty and energetic journalist and author of more than 30 books, including memoirs, biographies, crime stories and novels, many inspired by her childhood in colonial Kenya, died on Jan. 10 in a nursing home in Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England, a family friend said. She
 Mae Barnes, the sassy pop-jazz singer and dancer who introduced the Charleston on Broadway and later became a New York nightclub legend, died at Jamaica Hospital in Boston on Dec. 13. She was 89. She was being treated for cancer, said a friend, the theater historian Delilah Jackson.
 CARLSSON-Florence A. (Ryan). Of Sayville, L.I. until recently of East Meadow, L.I. On January 17, 1997 at age 86. Beloved mother of Kathleen and sister of Frank Ryan. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School in 1938. She practiced privately and in the 1950's became the first woman Assistant Distri
 MARGULIES - Nettie. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the untimely passing of our beloved member, Nettie Margulies, and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Julius and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alan B. Lucas, Rab
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. On January 16, 1997 in her 100th year. Of New York City and Ashville, Maine. Daughter of the late James and Annette B. Markoe. Devoted wife of the late William Jay Schieffelin, Jr. Loving mother of the late William Jay Schieffelin, III and Anne Louise Bradley. Sh
 SILVERSTEIN-Etta. An outstanding person who came to our great country with courage, determination and a devotion to productivity, Etta Silverstein helped develop this country and city for the benefit of the generations to come. She devoted her life to her family and to worthy institutions. 
 SUSLOW-Rose. Age 92. Devoted wife of the late Robert. Beloved and cherished mother of Nancy Ragovin and Howard and Renee. Adored grandmother of Seth, Wendy, Scott, Lisa, Clifford and Stacy. Dear great grandmother of Eric and Adam, Danielle and Adam. She will always be loved and forever miss
 Lubov Rostova, a dancer with the Ballets Russes companies of the 1930's, died on Monday at her home in Oyster Bay, L.I. She was 80. As a member of Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, Ms. Rostova achieved critical acclaim in 1932 when, at 16, she danced the mysterious Hand of Fate pas
 Marie Collins McGuire Thompson, who worked to improve the design of public housing for the elderly and low-income people as the Public Housing Administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died last Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. Mrs. Thompson was 92 and lived in K
 Mary Bancroft, a Boston Brahmin colleen who cut a coquettish swath through 20th-century history, bewitching men of power even as she did brilliant work as an American spy in Switzerland in World War II, died on Jan. 10 at her Fifth Avenue apartment. She was 93. If Mary Bancroft had 
 BERMAN-Evelyn, January 9, 1997. Beloved wife of Martin, loving mother of Jay, Lonny, and Wendy, cherished daughter of the late Lawrence Austein and Dorothy, devoted sister of Jerry and Barry, kind mother-inlaw of Zoe, Kate, and David, dear grandmother of Spring, Zachary, Jake, Benjamin, and
 BUNCE-Suzanne Andrews, of Southbury CT, Jan. 16. Wife of the late Robert Hogue. Dear aunt of Lewis Kleinhans, Susan Gilbertson, Jose Asensio, Alexandra Koppen, and Cotheal Linnell. Also survived by 14 devoted great nieces and nephews, and four great great nieces and nephews. Contributions i
 CROSSMAN-Erla (Jackson), in Chestnut Hill, MA., formerly of Fresh Meadows, N.Y., on January 15, 1997. Wife of the late Ralph Crossman. Mrs. Crossman was a graduate of Massachusetts College of Pharmacy Class, of 1922 and retired from NYC Health Dept. Survived by her daughter Erla Coburn Mane
 DONOVAN-Dorothy D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Dorothy D. Donovan, beloved mother of Andrew, Daniel, Joseph and Timothy, and mother-in-law of our friend and colleague, Gail F. Donovan, Senior Vice President for Administration. To Gai
 GLASER-Lee Babin. Died on January 13, 1997. We have lost a dear relative and friend whose long life of style, wit, and imagination brought pleasure to all. A creative advertising executive, she was even more creative in her generous and caring relationships with her family and friends. She 
 LEVINSON-Marguerite. Beloved wife of Norman Levinson, mother to Robert O'Connor, grandmother to Daniel, Anne Marie, Katie, Kenny and Heather O'Connor. We all love and will miss her very much.       
 LIBERMAN-Rose C. Yeshiva University and its Women's Organization mourn the passing of a longtime, devoted friend and tireless worker, beloved wife of the late Norman Liberman and mother of Barnet (and Sue) Liberman and Gladys (and Dr. Robert) Richter. A stalwart advocate of Jewish education
 MACKTA-Regina Katz, 85, of Midlothian, VA, formerly of New York City, died January 15, 1997. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Leo Mackta, DDS, retired; son Fred Mackta of Richmond, VA, daughter Betsy Sue Scott of Great Falls, VA., brother Milton Kaye of New York City. Also five grandchil
 McCAIN-Jane Murtagh, died November 26, 1996 in Pinehurst, NC. Mrs. McCain was born on January 22, 1910 in West Chester, PA. She graduated from the Shipley School, Bryn Mawr, PA., in 1927 and from La Lierre, in Paris, in 1928. She was married to Samuel Adams McCain, general counsel of Corn P
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. On January 16, 1997 in her 100th year. Of New York City and Ashville, Maine. Daughter of the late James and Annette B. Markoe. Devoted wife of the late William Jay Schieffelin, Jr. Loving mother of the late William Jay Schieffelin, III and Anne Louise Bradley. Sh
 SMITH-Clara Loitman, M.D., on Jan. 16, in Tucson, AZ. Cherished wife of the late Joseph Smith, M.D., of RI. Beloved mother of Ruth Baker-Battist of MD, Deborah Weintraub of AZ, Prof. Charles William Smith of NY, Prof. David Lee Smith of OH, eleven grand and nine great-grandchildren. Service
 Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago. She was 67. Ms. Krainik, who had been ill in recent years
 GEDRIS-Marie, a long time resident of Astoria, NY, and the owner of Marie Gedris Beauty Aide, Fifth Ave., New York City. She leaves five brothers in CT and one sister: Anastasia Schuppe of Elmhurst, NY. For information, The Stokes Funeral Home, 134 Highland Avenue, Waterbury, CT 06708.     
 GOLDSTONE-Harriet Bloch. Died on January 18 (Shevat 11). Dearly beloved wife of 54 years of Abraham, dearest twin sister of Charlotte Schecter, devoted mother of David and the late Susan Goldstone, and dearest mother-in-law of Dorothy Gilbert Goldstone and cherished grandmother of Joseph, D
 LEEB-Guitte. Died in Nice, France, on January 5. A memorial service was held January 10 in St. Paul de Vence. She is survived by her companion, John Drummen.       
 MARCY-Emily. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member Emily Marcy. On behalf of all Fairview members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Stephen A. Leber, Secretary     
 ROSMAN-Jennie. On January 18, 1997, in her 82nd year. Beloved mother of Martin, Howard, Lawrence and Sidney. Dear sister to Louis Fisch, Bella Liebowitz and Adele Fisch. Loving grandmother of twelve. Shiva at 73-19 172nd St., Hillcrest, until Friday.       
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. On January 16, 1997 in her 100th year. Of New York City and Ashville, Maine. Daughter of the late James and Annette B. Markoe. Devoted wife of the late William Jay Schieffelin, Jr. Loving mother of the late William Jay Schieffelin, III and Anne Louise Bradley. Sh
 STERN-Shirley Goodman. Devoted mother of Stanley and Eileen, adoring nana of M.J. Wolff and Lois Richards, proud grandnana of Brett, William, Sarah, and Max. Her beauty, her business ability and capacity to enjoy life will live in our hearts and the cruelty of her final years will fade from
 Dorathi Bock Pierre, a theatrical publicist and dance writer, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 96. During a long career, Ms. Pierre served as press representative for tours by such groups as the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, American Ballet Theater, the Old Vic, the
 DICKERSON-Elizabeth Deshler Brown, on January 19, 1997 in her 84th year, devoted wife of the late W. Mahlon Dickerson. Loving sister of Townsend Brown II of New York. Beloved mother of Allen Earle Whitman III of Berwyn, PA, Johnston deForest Whitman of Laurel Hollow, L.I., Madeleine Dickers
 EDELSON-Edna. On January 20. Beloved sister of Lily J. Edelson, dear aunt of Gladys and Kenneth Goldberg, Sheila Strasser, Ira and Seena Solomon, and Josephine Louise Siegel. She will be missed by her many friends.       
 GOTTESMAN-Natalie (Nibs) Sabin. Of Miami Beach. Passed away January 19, 1997. Most loved and loving mother of Barbara and Stephen Miller and Charles and Merrill Gottesman. Devoted daughter of Emma and the late Irving Sabsevitz. The adored grandmother of Erin Miller and Melinda and Caroline 
 KRAINIK-Ardis. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our esteemed colleague and beloved friend, Ardis Krainik. Virtually synonymous with the Lyric Opera of Chicago, she was one of the great figures of the opera world. We had the privilege to work closely with her on many occasions, all
 RALPH-Jean. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Dr. Esther Sabban on the loss of her mother, Jean Ralph. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SPEYER-Hilda (nee Cannstatt), on January 18, 1997, at home in New York City. Adored wife for fifty-two years of the late Walter Ludwig Speyer. Dear mother to sons Ronald and Franklin and their wives Ellen and Carol. Proud grandmother of Joshua, Gabriel, Alexandra, Emily and Elizabeth. Speci
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial is private.       
 BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. On January 21, at her home in St. Pardoux de Drone, France. Attended, as always, by her three devoted men, husband Peter; sons John and Paul. Also survived by her loving mother-in-law, Marie, sister Doreen, and many friends young and old. A woman of great vitality,
 BOORSCH-Louise Totten, 88, of Millbrook Road, North Haven, CT., died Tuesday, January 21st, at her home after a long illness. She was the wife of Jean Boorsch, Professor Emeritus of French at Yale. Mrs. Boorsch was born on July 16, 1908. She received a B.A. from Jackson College in 1929 and 
 BRINKMANN - SCHAFRANEK Ruth. Actress, director, producer and co-founder with her husband, Dr. Franz Schafranek, of Vienna's English Theatre, born in Berlin, Germany in 1934, died in Vienna, Austria on January 18 of cancer. A graduate of the Yale Drama School, she performed at the Cleveland 
 GEIGER-Miriam, 78, of Sun City, Arizona, died January 16, 1997, in Walter O. Boswell Memorial Hospital. Mrs. Geiger was born in New Haven, CT., and was a mental health advisor in New York. She moved to Arizona in 1993 from New York and was a member of Temple Beth Shalom. Mrs. Geiger is surv
 MARTIN-Alice A., died January 21, 1997. Wife of James. Mother of Paula, Joshua, Elizabeth. Grandmother of Lloyd and Julia. Our love goes with her. Private.       
 McKAY-Mary R. (nee McKeon). January 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late James H. McKay Sr. Devoted mother of James H. Jr, J. Kevin and Robert B. McKay and Christine M. Talbot. Dearest sister of Harriet Elizabeth Tiernan and the late John F. McKeon. Also survived by 7 grandchildren. Services 
 NUSBAUM-Marilyn (nee Brooks). Of Fort Lee, New Jersey. Age 68. On January 20, 1997. Wife of Arthur. Mother of Barbara Selick, Robert and Howard Nusbaum. Sister of Janet Sorkin. Grandmother of 6 grandchildren. Mrs. Nusbaum was formerly a teacher. She belonged to several oranizations, among t
 PAPE-Mabel E. (nee Tennant) on January 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Frederick W. Pape, Sr. Mother of Mrs. Gerald Denneby (Dorothy Devaney) of Quogue, New York, Frederick W. Pape, Jr. of Falmouth Fareside, Maine, William L. Pape of Lloyd Harbor, NY. Predeceased by her grandson Warren A
 ROSE-Beatrice. On January 19, 1997, preceding her husband William by one day.       
 SALTON-Anny, on January 19, 1997, died after a long illness. Beloved wife of Albin. Survived by niece Maria Roberts and her husband Larry, and her children Gregory, Bruce, Teresa and Eric. In lieu of flowers contributions to the Alzheimers Association would be appreciated. Service private. 
 SMERKA-Reny (nee Stieffel). On Jan. 20, 1997 after a lengthy illness. Born in Germany, devoted wife of the late Max, mother of Lester, more than mother-in-law of Dalia, grandmother of Alyse, Victor and Michael, aunt of Rosalyn. She leaves behind a large number of admiring family and friends
 SPEYER-Hilda (nee Cannstatt), on January 18, 1997, at home in New York City. Adored wife for fifty-two years of the late Walter Ludwig Speyer. Dear mother to sons Ronald and Franklin and their wives Ellen and Carol. Proud grandmother of Joshua, Gabriel, Alexandra, Emily and Elizabeth. Speci
 VOORHEES-Lois (nee Gaw), age 86, on January 20, 1997, in Harleysville, PA. Wife of the late G. Coerte Voorhees. She is survived by her son G. Stephen and Pieter Beekman Voorhees and five grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, February 9, 1997 at 2 p.m. St. Christopher's E
 YAGER-Jennie. Jan. 20, 1997, at age 97. Daughter of the late Annie and David Kahn. Devoted wife of the late Harry Yager. Loving mother of Dr. Alfred, Helene Y. Peters and the late Dr. Robert. Adored grandmother of James, Thomas, Charles Yager, Claudia, Frederic, Adam and Jason White, Lesley
 ZIPORKIS-Louise Roberts. On Jan. 17, 1997. Courageous, talented, imaginative ''Collage Maker.'' Her enthusiasm for life and her capacity to love, support, encourage and forgive was boundless. Parent to one, mother to many, devoted to her family and friends, her spirit will be with us foreve
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial is private.       
 Edith Haisman, the oldest survivor of the sinking of the Titanic in 1912, died on Monday night at a nursing home in Southampton, England. She was 100. Karen Kamuda, the vice president of the Titanic Historical Society, said  in a telephone interview today from Indian Orchard, Mass.,
 ALLEN-Marguerite (Gracie). It is with great sadness that we announce the death at the age of 94 of our esteemed colleague and friend Gracie, who passed away peacefully at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief illness. Gracie devoted her life to Douglas Elliman and more than anyone symbolized th
 BARKIN-Beatrice. Beloved wife of Martin for over 50 years. Loving mother to Judy (Kenneth), Jeanne (Mark), Allen (Julie), and Daniel (Carol). Devoted grandmother to Adam, Jordon, Rebecca, David, Pauline, Ellie, Perry and Jeremy. She was a special person who will be greatly missed by all who
 BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. On January 21, at her home in St. Pardoux de Drone, France. Attended, as always, by her three devoted men, husband Peter; sons John and Paul. Also survived by her loving mother-in-law, Marie, sister Doreen, and many friends young and old. A woman of great vitality,
 BERKSTEIN-Rose. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends extend sincerest condolences to Mrs. Judith Haimoff, Director of Global Development at Bar-Ilan University in Israel, her sister and the entire family on the loss of their mother, Mrs. Rose Berkstein. Both of them may de
 FAISON-Virginia Gordon, 84, of Scott Hill Road, Williamstown, died at her home on Tuesday, January 21st. Death followed a long illness. Born in Savannah, Georgia on Oct. 17, 1912. The daughter of Henry Davis and Jeanie Gordon (Haines) Weed. She attended private schools in Georgia and in 193
 KERN-Ruth, 89, North Miami Beach, died Jan. 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Jimmy for 69 years. Dearest mother of Dorothe and Joseph Levy and the late Henry. Cherished grandmother of Susan and Allan Deutsch and Debbi and Jerry Waters. Adored greatgrandmother of Hayley and Joshua Waters. Loving si
 ROSENBAUM-Elinor (Hoffman). Died January 20, 1997, peacefully at her Manhattan home. Beloved mother of Robert and Nancy Hoffman; daugher-in-law, Loretta Hoffman; son-in-law, Jed Linden. Grandmother of Grace and Leo Linden. Services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, on Friday, J
 SAVAGE-Joan. Age 60. Died January 21, 1997 in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, N.Y. She was born September 27, 1936 in Brooklyn, the daughter of Bailey and Leah Baynor Savage, last known to have resided in the Brooklyn area with any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please contact the C
 SMIDT-Bertha, of Cornwall-onHudson, NY, on January 21, 1997, in her 87th year. Sister of the late Helene Rockwell, Marie Smidt, John A. Smidt, Julie Marshall, Friede Bliss, and Thomas R. Smidt. She is survived by ten nieces and nephews, their children and grandchildren. A private family mem
 Pilar Barbosa de Rosario, a revered Puerto Rican historian and political authority who served as teacher, mentor and mother confessor to generations of Puerto Rican politicians, scholars and intellectuals, died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in San Juan. She was 99 and widely rega
 Myfanwy Piper, an English art critic and the librettist for three of Benjamin Britten's operas, died last Saturday at Fawley Bottom, the farmhouse home near Henley, England, that was a center of artistic activity in the 1940's and 50's. She was 85. Ms. Piper's most enduring work is 
 ANDERSON-Rose Mary, of Summitville, NY, a retired Manager for Anderson Handprints in Middletown, died Tuesday, Jan. 21, at her home in Summitville. She was 70 years old. The daughter of the late Theodore and Margaret Feeney Zellers, she was born September 17, 1926 in Toledo, OH. Survivors i
 COOPER-Gertrude. We record with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and member Gertrude Cooper. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her niece Roslyn and to the other members of the family. Howard Fensterman, Pres. The Woodmere Club       
 CREEM-Theresa De Voe, 90, widow of John J. Creem Jr. died at St. Francis Hospital after a long illness on January 23, 1997. A long time member of the Munsey Park and Sands Point Garden Clubs. She was a nationally accredited horticultural judge. She is survived by her 3 sons: Michael, Anthon
 GLANTZ-Rae Fishberg, 94, at home on Bay Harbor Islands, Fla. Widow of Harry; cherished mother of Geraldine, Janice and Lois. Beloved mother-in-law of Sidney Bergman, Robert Greenstein and Arthur Rosenfeld. Adored grandmother of the late Pamela, Susan, Ivy, Tod, Felicia, Carolyn and Sara. Lo
 LIVINGSTON-Gladys Sherr Ritter. With great sadness we record the passing of our beloved Gladys Livingston, a woman of style, humor and generosity. Mother of Toby and Nataly Ritter, Frances and Robert Weisman. Grandmother of Louis and Laurie, Ward and Loree and Adam Weisman; Louis, Victoria 
 NEWHOUSE-Bertha S. Died on January 23 in New York City at the age of 78. Beloved wife of Roy for over 53 years. Loving mother of Martin and Lina Wood. Devoted grandmother of Katherine, Philip, Samuel, Emma and Rebecca. Born in Mt. Vernon, New York, she lived most of her life in New York Cit
 PERKIS-Bertha, on January 22, 1997. Mother of the late Donald Twerie. Survived by her grandchildren Hillary and Vincent Sofield, Andrew and Colleen Twerie and great-grandchildren, Vincent and Dylan Sofield. Survived by many loving nieces and nephews. We love her and will miss her very much.
 Van ZANDT-Leona Thompson. On January 21. Beloved widow of Roland Van Zandt, historian and author of The Catskill Mountain House and other books. A woman of great culture, vitality, creativity and love who enriched the lives of her many friends and family. She is survived by three children: 
 Ida Kohlmeyer, an abstract painter known for colorful pictographic canvases, died on Friday at the Touro Infirmary in New Orleans. She was 84 and lived in Metairie, La., a suburb of New Orleans. Mrs. Kohlmeyer, who spent most of her life in New Orleans, took up painting when she was
 ACKERMAN-Johanna. January 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Laura Spahn and son-in-law, the late Milton and Edith Wiener and sonin-law Preston. Caring daughter of the late Abraham and Sarah Weisman. Loving sister of Jacob Weisman. Dear sister-in-law of Rae Weisman. C
 AIZER ELIAHOU-Aviva, at age 65, on January 23. Devoted and loving wife to Albert. Cherished and adored mother of Donald, Vivian, and Robert. Mother-in-law of Moshe and Bianca. Beautiful grandmother of Avi and Talia. Aviva was a beautiful flower in our lives. She will be missed, remembered a
 ALLEN-Marguerite (Gracie). In order to accommodate the many friends that Grace has made over her long and fruitful life, the location and date of her memorial service has been changed to St. Bartholomew's Church at 51st Street and Park Ave on Tuesday, February 4 at 2:30pm. Howard P. Milstei
 ARTASERSE-Muriel D. (nee Dodd), of Clifton, NJ on Jan. 23, 1997. Survivors include her loving husband, Hon. Peter P. Artaserse, and her son, Peter, Jr. Funeral services Tuesday, 10:30 AM from the Bizub-Quinlan Funeral Home, Clifton and 11:00 AM at St. Philip the Apostle R.C. Church, Clifton
 BRAM-Anna P. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, Anna P. Bram. An ardent Zionist, and devoted to Hadassah, Anna was beloved by Hadassah chapters in both Philadelphia and Southern California for her warmth, leadership and humor. She will be misse
 CORWEN-Josephine R., on January 20, 1997, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late A. Miller Corwen, devoted mother of Albert and Robert. Fond sister of Lester and the late Lillian and Raymond. Cherished mother-in-law of Catherine and Janice. Adored grandmother of Robert, Catherine, Kimbe
 CREEM-Theresa De Voe, 90, widow of John J. Creem Jr. died at St. Francis Hospital after a long illness on January 23, 1997. A long time member of the Munsey Park and Sands Point Garden Clubs. She was a nationally accredited horticultural judge. She is survived by her 3 sons: Michael, Anthon
 FAY-Valle Weber. Of Rowayton, CT, who led the efforts to revitalize South Norwalk in the late 1970's and 80's, died Wednesday night in Norwalk Hospital of complications following an emergency operation. Beloved wife of Francis X. Fay, Jr. and loving mother of Valle Gaynor Blake of Brighton,
 FRIEDLANDER-Lotte. On January 25, 1997. She is survived by a son Tomas, and granddaughters Jill Goroff and Amy Friedlander, as well as three great-grandchildren. She was 92 years old and lived life to the fullest.       
 GLANTZ-Rae Fishberg, 94, at home on Bay Harbor Islands, Fla. Widow of Harry; cherished mother of Geraldine, Janice and Lois. Beloved mother-in-law of Sidney Bergman, Robert Greenstein and Arthur Rosenfeld. Adored grandmother of the late Pamela, Susan, Ivy, Tod, Felicia, Carolyn and Sara. Lo
 HALL-Marion Dalton, 86, died after a long illness on Jan. 22, 1997. Widow of Isaac Davis Hall; loving mother and grandmother of Susan and David Hall; Elizabeth, Jacob and Benedict Carton; Emlen, Jennifer, Delaney, Chloe and Gavin Hall; Isaac, Dana and Leahi Hall; Louisa Hall and Rob and Ebe
 LIVINGSTON-Gladys Sherr Ritter. With great sadness we record the passing of our beloved Gladys Livingston, a woman of style, humor and generosity. Mother of Toby and Nataly Ritter, Frances and Robert Weisman. Grandmother of Louis and Laurie, Ward and Loree and Adam Weisman; Louis, Victoria 
 MANLEY-Helen Swenson. At Lakewood, NJ, on January 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late John Howard Manley. A longtime resident of New York, she was a valued member of the support staff of Sullivan and Cromwell, as secretary to Eustace Seligman, a prominent senior partner. Survived by her brot
 SAYRES-Ruth H., 90, died on Monday, Jan. 6, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. Widow of Philip C. Sayres, she is survived by Barbara S. Williams of Greenwich, Philip C. Sayres, Jr of East Haddam, CT., and 4 grandchildren. A memorial service will be held February 15 at 11:00 AM at The First Congregation
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. Memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial was private.       
 SEXTON-Marjorie McC., January 24, 1997 at the age of 86. Resident of Essex, CT., and formerly of Lakeville, CT. Wife of the late Dorrance Sexton. She is survived by two sons Dorrance Jr. of Sargentville, ME., and David of Rye, New York, and 7 grandchildren. Private services will be held at 
 SIDOR-Edna (Ainbinder) of Armonk, Brooklyn and Queens, NY. Died suddenly on January 23, 1997. She was a joy and treasure who taught by example the fine art of living. She will be forever loved and missed by eight grandchildren, three children, one brother, nieces, nephews, in-laws, neighbor
 WIESEN-Pearl, PhD from the University of Wisconsin (1962), was born in 1918 and died on Jan. 10, 1997. She worked in the legal department of the Schubert Org. and later graduated from the Dramatic Workshop of the New School (1947). She received her BA and MA from Hunter (1957-58). Her disse
 Jeane Dixon, the astrologer and self-described psychic who gained fame by apparently predicting President John F. Kennedy's death, died on Saturday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 79 and a longtime resident of Washington. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, the 
 Louise Roberts, who directed the Clark Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan, died on Jan. 17 at Bellevue Hospital. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black 
 ALLEN-Marguerite (Gracie). In order to accommodate the many friends that Grace has made over her long and fruitful life, the location and date of her memorial service has been changed to St. Bartholomew's Church at 51st Street and Park Ave on Tuesday, February 4 at 2:30pm. Howard P. Milstei
 ORENSTEIN-Sophie. A woman of grace and dignity. Beloved mother of Melvin, David and Michael. Adored mother-in-law of Martha, Jeanie and Barbara. Grandmother of Jeffrey, Richard, Geri, Pamela, Elizabeth, Heather, Sarah and Hope. Great-grandmother of Abraham. Funeral service, Monday, 12:30 PM
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. Memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial was private.       
 Tatiana C. Bouteneff, who taught French and Russian at the Nightingale-Bamford School in Manhattan for 37 years and who was long prominent in efforts to raise money for White Russian causes in New York, died on Jan. 15 at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 69 and lived on the Uppe
 Edith Thacher Hurd, whose books on subjects from the earth to whales to firemen reached several generations of readers learning their way around the printed page, died on Saturday in Walnut Creek, Calif. She was 86. Mrs. Hurd wrote some 75 books for elementary-school children coveri
 ALTER-Margaret L. (Marge), of Walnut Creek, CA., formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away January 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred, loving mother of Caryl Dreiblatt and Donna LaCroix, cherished grandmother of Nicole and Allison LaCroix and Stefanie Dreiblatt, dear mother-in-law of Da
 BARNES-Marjorie V. On January 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Mark Hopkins Barnes. Survived by brother Donald Maulson and several nieces and nephews. Dear friend of Theresa Enni. A grand lady, she will be missed. Interment Grandview Cemetery, Maryville, TN.       
 GLENER-Ruth, passed away on Friday, January 24, 1997. Beloved wife of Norman; devoted sister-inlaw and friend. She will be deeply missed. Lyla and Howard Glener       
 LONDON-Ruth. Peacefully died January 26, 1997. Loving mother of Roberta Martell and Sheila Mandell; grandma of Troy, Philip, Elyse and Peter; sister of Shirley Rubinstein and sister-in-law of Martha Walter; and dear aunt, great-aunt, cousin and friend, who fought against injustice and worke
 MILLER-Constance L. on January 25, at home in Oneonta, NY. Cherished by all, she is survived by husband Matthew, sons Grant and Taylor, sister Marilyn Blake of Winter Park, FL and brother James K. Luntz of Canton, OH.       
 NEWHOUSE-Bertha S. I wish to express our faculty's sadness on the occasion of the death of our long time and esteemed colleague, Bertha S. Newhouse. Her illustrious career ending as a Professor of Accounting began in 1946 and lasted until her retirement in 1985. She was the first woman CPA 
 ORENSTEIN-Sophie. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to her family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Jeffrey Scherr, President.       
 SCHACTER-Barbara Cameron on January 26, 1997. A beautiful person both inside and out, who touched everyone in her own very special way. A devoted and wonderful friend who will live on not only in my heart, but also in the hearts of all those who knew and loved her. Barbara, I will miss you 
 SCHWARTZ-Rose. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys condolences to her bereaved family. Shira Milgrom, Rabbi Mark A. Hershey, President       
 TAKAKJIAN - BECKMANN - Mary E., age 72 of Boca Raton, FL, died Saturday, Jan. 25, 1997 at Imperial Point Medical Center in Ft. Lauderdale. Mrs. Beckmann was formerly of Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY, where she served 26 years as Executive Secretary with New Court Securities and successor firm, R
 WASHOR-Helen L., on January 26th, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell. Loving mother of Nancy Pierce and Larry Washor. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Nicholas. Dear sister of the late Gertrude Salzman Gordon. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, today, Tuesda
 WOLFSTEIN-Isabel Meta on February 27, 1997, age 95, born in Cincinatti, Ohio. Survived by her niece Ann W. Golden of Rydal, Pennsylvania and nephew Dr. Ralph Wolfstein of Los Angeles, California. Also survived by 4 grand-nieces and nephews and 3 great grandnieces and nephews. Services priva
 Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska, a founder of Mazowsze, the Polish State Folk Song and Dance Ensemble, died on Sunday in Warsaw. She was 96. Ms. Ziminska-Sygietynska became famous as a cabaret singer for whom leading Polish poets wrote songs. She also acted in films and edited the satiric
 BURROWS-Judi. Dear friend, there will be a void in our world forever. We will miss your laughter and your love, and will never forget our friendship. Helaine and Fred BURROWS-Judie. A treasured friend who embraced life with dignity and courage. Our heartfelt condolences to Peter, La
 DEDOVICH-Albert. The New York State Society of Medical Oncologists and Heomtologists (Downstate Division) expresses condolences and sympathy to Monica Dedovich, Society Administrator on the death of her husband Albert. Richard T. Silver, M.D, Presient       
 GANZ-Sally, on January 27th, 1997. The Whitney Museum of American Art notes with great sadness the passing of Sally Ganz, beloved wife of the late Victor W. Ganz, a former Trustee and Vice President of the Museum. Together with her husband, she was a true friend and a generous benefactor. W
 KATZ-Dorothea. (Nee Oberkewitz). Professor Emeritus, educator, lifetime community service. Chairperson of the Department of Physical Sciences of New York City Technical College of CUNY from 1983 to 1986. She began to serve on the faculty in 1959 of the then innovative concept of public comm
 ORENSTEIN-Sophie. The Seawane Club records with great sorrow the loss of its beloved member and extends deepest sympathy to her children. The Seawane Club Robert Roman, President       
 SIMON-Rita. On January 27, age 76. Beloved wife to the late Morris. Adored mother to Jeffrey Simon and Melanie and Arnold Salkin. Cherished grandmother to Michael, Justin and Kimberly. Services today, 9AM at 1283 Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn. She was a treasured woman and will be greatly mis
 TAKAKJIAN - BECKMANN - Mary E., age 72 of Boca Raton, FL, died Saturday, Jan. 25, 1997 at Imperial Point Medical Center in Ft. Lauderdale. Mrs. Beckmann was formerly of Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY, where she served 26 years as Executive Secretary with New Court Securities and successor firm, R
 Sally Ganz, an art collector and benefactor of educational and cultural organizations, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. With her husband, Victor W. Ganz, a vice president and longtime trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art who died in 1987, Mrs. Ganz accum
 Raya Garbousova, a cellist who gave the premieres of several contemporary works, including the Samuel Barber Cello Concerto, died on Tuesday at her home in De Kalb, Ill. She was 87. Miss Garbousova, a formidable musician whose technique was equal to the challenges of such difficult 
 LEIFER-Agatha I. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Aaron Leifer. Daughter of the late Rabbi Elihu and Froma Ann Inselbuch. Devoted mother of the late Rabbi Daniel Leifer. She is survived by her loving son, Elihu Leifer, her grandchildren, Eric, Joshua, Andrea and Ariel, her great granddaughter, 
