 Jeannette E. Fleischner, a professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College who devoted her career to the advancement of children with disabilities, died last Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 57 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y., and on Manhattan's Upper W
 CONLON-Mary Ellen. Nee O'Connor. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. and Sea Girt, N.J. On July 30, 1997. In her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late James. Loving mother of Irene Doherty and Mary Sullivan. Mother-in-law of James Doherty and the late Charles Sullivan. Devoted grandmother of Maureen and Willi
 FLEISCHNER-Jeannette E. The Teachers College, Columbia University community mourns the loss of its dear friend and colleague, Jeannette E. Fleischner, professor of education. We will miss her greatly. Her more than 25 years of counsel, service, and leadership to the College and her distingu
 FOLLANSBEE-Ann G. The children, families, staff and Board of Trustees of The League Treatment Center mourn the death, on July 27, 1997, of our beloved friend and colleague Ann G. Follansbee. A brilliant clinician, Ann was our Director of Psychology for over 15 years. She was passionately de
 GELBLUM-Morgan Alperstein. The Board of Directors of the Canavan Foundation extend their deepest sympathy to the Alperstein and Gelblum families upon the sudden passing of their beloved Morgan. Morgan brought love ito many people's lives and she will always be remembered and cherished.     
 ALTMAN-Jean Weiner. Passed away in her home July 7, 1997 at the age of 69. She was an active member of her condo board and a prolific artist in various mediums. Prior to retirement, she owned a jewelery manufacturing company and was active in the professional organizations. She is survived 
 KELLY-Madeline J. Originally of Brooklyn, N.Y. Passed away July 30, 1997 in Boynton Beach, FL. Miss Kelly retired in 1974 from the New York office of United States Steel Corporation, Export Divison, where she was secretary to many company executives. Survived by cousins Eugene W. Walsh and 
 LADENBURG - Veronica. The Board of Trustees, friends, and former colleagues note with sadness the loss of Hedi Ladenburg, who died on July 25th at the age of 80. Hedi taught at the Fieldston Lower School for twenty-six years. Although she retired in 1985, her connection with the school neve
 LUCKER-Marjorie S. (Stern), of Lexington, MA, on Friday, August 1. Wife of Jay K. Mother of Amy and Nancy. Mother-in-law of Joshua. Sister of Helen Stern-Richter. A memorial service will be held at JFK School of Government, Harvard University Sunday, August 3, at 2 PM. Donations in her memo
 ASKIN-Lucille Bunin. Of NY and Westhampton Beach. Died on May 10, 1997 in Boston, MA. Lucille was especially known for her love and dedicated support of the arts. Throughout her career, Lucille was an independent art lecturer at NY museums and galleries with a following of many longtime, de
 BADANES-Mildred (Millie, nee Rosenberg). Of Oakland, CA., on July 27, 1997 in her seventy-ninth year. She is survived by Elliott, her best friend and husband of fiftyeight years; by her children, Steve, John and Tom; and by John's wife Ella Baff. Millie received her B.A. in languages from H
 GLASS-Rose. Died July 30, 1997. Age 106. Eldest resident of Menorah Home in Brooklyn. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Loving mother of David (Renee), Seymour (late Norma), and the late Irving. Beloved grandmother of Bonnie, Daniel (Deborah), Steven, Paula, and Robert and greatgrandmother o
 OSTROW-Helen, on July 30, 1997. Beloved wife of Meyer. Loving mother of Rita and Arnold, Fran and Joe. Loving grandmother of Sandy, David, Liz, Peter and William. Loving great-grandmother of Barrie, Daniel, James and Matthew. She was a great lady and we will all miss her.       
 PECK (COHEN)-Mildred, of Asbury Park, NJ, died on Wednesday, July 30, 1997 at 84 years old. She is survived by two sons, Allan M. Cohen and Howard J. Cohen, and her husband George Peck.       
 RUSSELL-Eleanor Todd Marshall Porter. Eighty-seven of Summit, NJ died peacefully at home in the presence of her family on August 1, 1997. Mrs. Russell was born in South Orange on July 14, 1910, the daughter of James Marshall and Eleanor Blanche Todd Marshall. She grew up in South Orange and
 UMPLEBY-Alice Darby Wilson. Age 79, of Shelter Island, NY. Died July 24, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Joan (Mrs. Guenther W. Salm) and Annie (Mrs. Thomas R. Wilcox, Jr.). Loving grandmother of Darby and Carrie Salm, and Matthew and Sam Wilcox, and great-grandmother of Hannu
 ADLER-Ruth. 7/10/10-8/1/97. Attended the Sorbonne and graduated from Smith College. Executive Editor of Times Talk for 33 years. Author of two books: ''A Day in the Life of The New York Times,'' and ''The Working Press.'' Predeceased by her parents Mort and Ida Adler, and her brother Robert
 GOLDBERGER-Margaret, 89. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harold A. Goldberger. Loving and cherished mother of Dr. Robert E. and Carole. Proud and devoted grandmother of Jeffrey, Laurie, Susan and Richard. Adoring and adored great Grandma Peggy of Perry, Sydney, Cody and Isabelle. Dear sister o
 RUSSELL-Eleanor Todd Marshall Porter. Eighty-seven of Summit, NJ died peacefully at home in the presence of her family on August 1, 1997. Mrs. Russell was born in South Orange on July 14, 1910, the daughter of James Marshall and Eleanor Blanche Todd Marshall. She grew up in South Orange and
 Jeanne Calment, born a year before Alexander Graham Bell patented his telephone and 14 years before Alexandre Gustave Eiffel built his tower, died today in a nursing home in Arles. At 122, she was the oldest person whose age had been verified by official documents. Jean-Marie Robine
 BERLAND-Karen Ina, PhD, 49. Died unexpectedly Saturday in Colorado. She was the beloved daughter of Max and Lillian (Graf) Berland of Southbury, Connecticut. She was a clinical and school Psychologist in the Denver school system and in her own private practice. Graveside service will be hel
 BERMAN-Sadye. Beloved wife of the late Nat. Devoted mother of Gerald, Michael and Steven. Dear sister of Mary, Ida and Rose. Loving grandmother. For further information, call ''Parkside Chapel'' at 718-896-9000. BERMAN-Sadye. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow
 CASHIN-Nina (nee Faber). On August 3, 1997. Survived by husband Francis, sons Daniel and Michael and daughters Megan, Mara and Suzie, and her brothers Richard C. Faber, Jr. and Gerard E. Faber.       
 HELLER-Dr. Louis G. Renowned Professor of classical languages and linguistics at the City College of New York. Beloved husband of Alice. Devoted father of Shelley Lynn Heller, Dr. Benjamin Mark and Deborah Heller and the late William Joseph Heller. Dear brother of Stanley Benson. Loving gra
 KETCHAM-Dorothy, M., 84, of Charlotte, NC, died August 2, 1997. Survived by her husband of 50 years, Platt Vandewater Ketcham; two daughters, Deborah Ketcham Abels of Charlotte, and Nancy Jean Lagomarsino of Emerson, NJ; two sons-in-law, Wedge Abels and John Lagomarsino; three grandchildren
 MORSE-Helena Barbieri. Passed away peacefully at her Manhattan home August 3, 1997 at the age of 89. Beloved sister of Rosalie Stynes, loving daughter of Frank A.G. and Rose Barbieri. A person of dignity, elegance, wisdom and generosity. Prior to her retirement, distinguished designer of ha
 RYBCZYNSKI-Wanda, M.D. Age 48. On August 3, 1997, in Berlin, Germany. Beloved wife of Zbigniew, an award-winning cinematographer and HDTV pioneer. Dearly remembered by her son Pawel, her brother-in-law Witold and his wife Sandy. She was a devoted wife, instrumental in her huband's success, 
 STRASSMAN-Gertrude. The music went round and round thrilling thousands throughout the years. We'll always hear her playing. She leaves a daughter Leonore, a son Mace Comora, his Wife Suzanne, her beloved grandchildren Jeannie and Greg, sister, Helen Littauer, brother, Milton Lehr, devoted n
 THOMAS-Joycelyn. The Board of Trustees, staff, participants and families of the League Treatment Center mourn the death of our beloved friend and colleague, Joycelyn Thomas. Joycelyn has been the nurse at CFCS for five years. She will be remembered as an inspiration to her friends and colle
 Ruth Adler, who kept the staff of The New York Times informed about its own milestones and behind-the-scenes adventures and shaped the legends and lore of The Times for other journalists and students for 33 years as editor of the newspaper's in-house journal Times Talk, died on Friday at he
 BRINKMANN-Anna K. (nee Albus). Co-founder and long-time treasurer of Brinkmann Instruments, Inc. died in Delray Beach, Florida on August 5, 1997 after a prolonged illness. Born in Mannheim, Germany in 1907, she emigrated to the United States in 1939. A loyal and devoted wife and mother, she
 BRODY-Helen Golding. Camp Dora Golding expresses its heartfelt sympathy to the family of Helen Golding Brody upon her passing. The Golding name is borne proudly by this camp which testifies to the many deeds of merit of the Golding family. May her memory be blessed and her family comforted 
 COMER-Carolyn. Age 64 of Port Washington, on August 5, 1997. Devoted sister of Miriam C. Mayer of South Orange, NJ, Harry D. Comer, Jr., of Southport, NC, Marguerite C. Janse-Vreeling of Appleton, WI., Janet C. Bryars of Papillion, NE and Charles Comer of Port Washington, NY. Also survived 
 EIDELMAN WACHS-Dr. Barbara. We express our deepest sympathy on the untimely passing of Dr. Barbara Eidelman Wachs in Israel while attempting to rescue a drowning child. Dr. Wachs was a source of great pride to her family and will be sorely missed. We extend sincerest condolences to her husb
 LARGEVER - Ida (Haimowitz). June 20th, 1902 to August 3, 1997, age 95. We mourn the loss of our dearly loved ''Nanny,'' a lifetime member of Hadassah, who now joins her beloved husband Mac; her brothers Henry, Sam & Irving Haimes; and her daughter Gladyce Begelman. She is survived by her si
 REID-Norma H. Died on August 3, 1997. Beloved mother of Jordanna, caring daughter of Roderick and Eileen Reid, devoted sister of Franklin Reid, Bertram Reid, Carmen Gray, Irma Reid, Carlton Reid, Yvonne Reid, Ruby Reid, Colleen Reid, Sandra Yearwood, Wayne Reid, Francis Reid. Cherished frie
 SHARKEY-Elizabeth. We mourn with our dear friends Barbara and Allan on the loss of their beloved Elizabeth, affectionately known to us as ''Lizbo''. We will always remember her sweetness and beauty. Gary, Lynn, Robert, Amy, Andrew, Michael SHARKEY-Elizabeth (Lizzy). You were our nei
 TISHMAN-Rose S. Devoted wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Jerry A. of Westport, CT., and N.Y.C. Died peacefully in her 96th year on August 4. Mrs. Tishman was born on June 26, 1902 in N.Y.C. where she resided her entire life. During World War II, she was one of the leaders of the New
 ASENCIO-Maria. 9/6/39 to 8/6/97. Passed away Wednesday. Loving and devoted wife to Alfredo. Proud and adoring mother to Arlene, Deborah and Paul. Doting grandmother to Conor and Nina. She will be remembered for her generous spirit, caring soul and her love of laughter. Wake at Cobble Hill C
 BLAKEMORE-Frances L. Age 91, died August 1 in Seattle, Washington. Born June 19, 1906 in Pana, Illinois. Well-known artist who lived and worked in Tokyo from 1935 to 1989. Author of Modern Japanese Prints, Japanese Design and other works. Her paintings and prints have been exhibited in Japa
 FISCHER-Pauline, 98. Devoted wife of the late Jack; loving mother of Bill and Stuart, Iris (Stanley) Aronson and Carol and Howard Schleien; loving sister of Esther Nathanson; adoring grandmother of ten grandchildren and fifteen great grandchildren. Pauline Fischer, along with her husband Ja
 FISH-Sylvia. Aug 6, 1997 of Somers, NY. Loving wife of Leon. Beloved mother of Ira Fish and Rachel Dill. Loving sister of Sophie Safran and loving grandmother of Lucas and Hannah. Service and interment private. FISH-Sylvia. Our life long friend, a woman of valor, left us August 6, 1
 LARGEVER - Ida (Haimowitz). June 20th, 1902 to August 3, 1997, age 95. We mourn the loss of our dearly loved ''Nanny,'' a lifetime member of Hadassah, who now joins her beloved husband Mac; her brothers Henry, Sam & Irving Haimes; and her daughter Gladyce Begelman. She is survived by her si
 REID-Norma H. Died on August 3, 1997. Beloved mother of Jordanna, caring daughter of Roderick and Eileen Reid, devoted sister of Franklin Reid, Bertram Reid, Carmen Gray, Irma Reid, Carlton Reid, Yvonne Reid, Ruby Reid, Colleen Reid, Sandra Yearwood, Wayne Reid, Francis Reid. Cherished frie
 WERTHEIM-Edith. ''Edzia'' to those who knew and loved her. Beloved wife of Samuel. Devoted mother of Elliot, and mother-inlaw of Ellen. Loving grandmother of Aaron. On August 6, 1997. A survivor of the Holocaust and one of the first women on ''Schindler's List,'' her generosity of spirit, s
 FISCHER-Pauline, 98. Devoted wife of the late Jack; loving mother of Bill and Stuart, Iris (Stanley) Aronson and Carol and Howard Schleien; loving sister of Esther Nathanson; adoring grandmother of ten grandchildren and fifteen great grandchildren. Pauline Fischer, along with her husband Ja
 MOND-Lilian, 94, on Thursday, August 7 in Bloomfield, CT. Beloved wife of the late Morris Mond. Survived by daughter attorney Joan Mond Lebovitz of West Hartford, CT; son-in-law Walter Freedman of Del Ray Beach, FL; four grandchildren, Kathy and Gerald Gollub of NYC, Samuel Lebovitz of Broo
 ROSE-Lillian Koslan, on August 6, 1997. She was a secondary school teacher and District Supervisor of Libraries in District 29 Queens. She was married to Rudolph Koslan for forty-nine years and is survived by Bernard Rose, husband of ten years. Mother of Martha Rich. Grandmother of four. Si
 SHATZKY-Bess. Passed away on August 7, 1997. Beloved mother of Joel and Dorothy, beloved grandmother of Ben and Judy, beloved aunt. She has done her work. Funeral services Sunday at noon at Gutterman-Musicant, corner of Passaic and Park St, Hackensack, NJ. Interment New Montefiore Cemetery,
 GIRARDOT-Claire Lily. Her son Christopher, her mother Mamie are inconsolable over their loss of Claire Lily Girardot on August 9, 1996. She was the niece of Lily Pons. Please think of her affectionately. Once again, we would like to express our thanks and appreciation to her doctor and the 
 FISCHER-Pauline, 98. Devoted wife of the late Jack; loving mother of Bill and Stuart, Iris (Stanley) Aronson and Carol and Howard Schleien; loving sister of Esther Nathanson; adoring grandmother of ten grandchildren and fifteen great grandchildren. Pauline Fischer, along with her husband Ja
 GENAUER-Rabbi Sam. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL -The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Blu Greenberg, our esteemed associate faculty member, her husband Rabbi Irving Greenberg, our president and founder, and their entire fa
 GIOIA-Sandy. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Sandy Gioia. Wife of our colleague Guy Gioia. We will always respect her as a wonderful wife and mother of Dana and Lisa. We wish to express our deepest regrets to the rest of her family. In her memory contributions may be made to the Sa
 HOFFMAN-Sally (Linitz), 88. Beloved mother of Stephen and the late Doris, sister of Lynn, grandmother of Aaron and Judith, aunt of Carol, Diane, Alice, Blanche, Harvey, Lewis and Rosalind. Devoted wife of the late Harry. We deeply mourn her loss. Services Monday, August 11, at 1:30 PM, at I
 SPIEWAK-Shirley. On August 6th, after a year of struggling against cancer. Shirley Spiewak passed away peacefully at her home with her loving family at her side. She was grateful for her wonderful life with her beloved husband of 49 years, Gerald (Jerry) and loving children Alan, Michael an
 WERTHEIM-Edith. ''Edzia'' to those who knew and loved her. Beloved wife of Samuel. Devoted mother of Elliot, and mother-inlaw of Ellen. Loving grandmother of Aaron. On August 6, 1997. A survivor of the Holocaust and one of the first women on ''Schindler's List,'' her generosity of spirit, s
 Joanne Tree Winship, a former actress who played an active role in many New York City charity benefits, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, her husband, Frederick Winship, said. Mrs. Winship served 
 BERMAN-Esther (nee Richman), of Boca Raton, FL, passed away August 8, 1997, in her 101st year. She is survived by her loving children Bernard (Phyllis) and Florence (Bernard) Schlossberg; her devoted grandchildren David, Steven (Nancy), Clifford and Robert (Helene). Great grandchildren Eric
 ABBELL-Dora. The administration, faculty, students and boards of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the passing of Dora Abbell, whose generosity and that of her family have benefitted the Seminary for decades. Along with her beloved husband, Joseph, a Chicago businessman, Mr
 APFEL-Sadye. ''Honey'' to her grandchildren, wife of the late Murray D. Apfel, matriarch of the family, took ill while vacationing and died in Southampton Hospital, four months shy of her 100th birthday. After an automobile accident 14 years ago, she defied all odds and lived with a spinal 
 BLACKER-Natalie, of Delray Beach, Florida, died August 8th 1997. She was a devoted wife and best friend of Arthur for 55 years, loving mother and mother-in-law of Ellen and Joel Walker and Elyse and Larry Faltz, and proud and loving grandmother to Brian and Allison Walker. Contributions in 
 KRAMER-Sonia 90, beloved wife of the late Arthur, cherished mother of Naomi and son-in-law John. Devoted grandmother of Eric. Dear friend of sister-in-law Bernice. Passed away Sunday August 10 at her daughter's home in Corte Madera, Ca. Services Wed, Aug 13, 11:45 a.m. The Riverside Memoria
 LEE-Hai Quoon ''Kay''. Age 87. Died peacefully on August 9, 1997. Loving wife to Kim; devoted mother to Mark, Alan, May Soo Hoo, and Eugene; cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be fondly remembered and greatly missed. Visiting on Wednesday, August 13 from 24PM and 7-9PM an
 LOPATA-Frances. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our dear friend and Benefactor, who established an academic chair in liver disease research in memory of her late husband, Herman. She leaves a legacy of compassion and 
 POSNER-Marjorie. Died August 11, 1997. Survived by her husband of 53 years, William, and her children, Nancy and Martin Becker of Kettering, MD, Judge Charles A. Posner and Lynn of Brooklyn, NY, and Ira P. Posner, MD and Sheila of Hollywood, FL, and the grandchildren she adored, Michael and
 REMS-Sarah on August 11, 1997, in her 90th year. Born in Miedzyrzec Podlaski, Poland. Daughter of the late Chaye Mindl and Yudel Furman. Beloved wife of the late William Rems. Loving sister of Marsha Siegel, and of the late Donne Furman, Malke Lewin, Nathan Furman, Shayndl Trusz, and Paul F
 RUSSELL-Lois Robinson (Happy), 72, died Monday, August 4th at home in Redding, CT. A graduate of Wellesley College, she founded the Westchester-Fairfield Dressage Assoc. An expert and frequent writer on dog obedience and herding, she helped establish the AKC's herding program. She was Pres.
 SALB-Malvina. The entire family of the East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourns the passing of the mother of our beloved President, Marsha Shlefstein. She was a paragon of traditional Jewish values and principles. We extend our sympathies to the entire family. Dr. Alvin Kass, Rabbi     
 SIROTA-Roslynne. Died suddenly and peacefully in bed on August 6 of natural causes eight months after suffering a stroke. She is survived by her loving husband, Milton, her daughter Nancy and her three grandchildren, Kenji, Mina and Rena. Funeral services were held on August 8.       
 WOLPERT-Betty. The staff, Board and Volunteer Association of The Jewish Museum sadly mourn the loss of an esteemed friend and greatly valued member of the volunteer staff. Betty was the widow of sculptor Ludwig Wolpert, many of whose works are in The Jewish Museum's collection. We will miss
 CREASH-Ethel. August 12, 1897. On the centennial of her birth, her family remembers her with love.       
 Dr. Bettina Garthwaite Lowerre, a retired lung specialist, died last Thursday at her home in Manchester Village, Vt. She was 82. Mrs. Lowerre, known professionally as Dr. Garthwaite, was born in Spring Mill, Pa. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College in 1937. After a year 
 EPSTEIN-Leah. Passed away Tuesday, Aug 12, 1997 at age 95. Loving wife of the late Dr. Irving Epstein, MD, who after serving in France in WWI in the 91st Pine Tree Division U.S. Army, practiced medicine for 54 years in New York State. Sister-in-law of Sir Jacob Epstein, famed Anglo-American
 FRANCE-Joan L. of Babylon Village, L.I. on August 12, 1997. Mrs. France was born on November 19, 1931 in Chicago, Illinois. She was raised in Huntington, L.I., attended Upsala College and graduated in 1951. Joan married her husband William P. France on April 25, 1951, and they resided toget
 RICH-Gloria. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Marilyn and Barry, son-in-law Bruce, daughter-in-law Gabi. Loving grandmother of Anouk, Brian and Hayley. Loving daughter of Anna Bernstein. Loving sister of Shelley and Jerry, sister-in-law Audrey, cousin Julia and her many friends at 
 SHAPIRO-Edith Geraldine, age 81, died at her home in Weston, CT Monday night. Born Edith Herwitz in Brooklyn in 1915, she is survived by Salem Shapiro, her loving husband for 56 years. Her daughter, Amy Shapiro of Weston, son Walter Shapiro of New York and daughter-in-law Meryl Gordon, shar
 SHEAR-Marcia Topper. In Manhattan on Aug 11th. Beloved wife of Peter, mother of Lisa, grandmother of Oliver and sister of Eunice, her gifts to those she loved were immeasurable. A memorial service will be held in September. Donations to The Children's Brain Tumor Foundation, 274 Madison Ave
 SHEINKER-Myra R., age 61, 37year resident of Roslyn, LI, NY, on August 11, 1997, after a courageous and valiant struggle against illness. Commissioner of the Garden City Park Water/Fire District for the past 24 years; senior commissioner and Chairperson of the Board. First woman ever electe
 Margaret Sherman Peet, a former advertising executive, died Aug. 6 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., after a fall, her son, Charles D. Peet Jr., said. She was 90 and a longtime resident of Bronxville. Born in Detroit, Mrs. Peet, who was known professionally as Margot Sherman
 FREEDMAN-Nita, (nee Nita Greenberg). Beloved wife of Jerrold, mother of Allen and Joel, grandmother of Joshua. She was an angel on earth.       
 JACOBS-Berenice. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LANDON-Dorothy Dodge, of Delray Beach, Florida and Lake Placid, New York, died in Florida on August 11 after a short illness. She was born in New Rochelle, New York in 1917, the daughter of Henry and Gwendolyn Dodge. She graduated from Vassar College in 1938, and married Gardner F. Landon o
 SHAPIRO-Edith Geraldine, age 81, died at her home in Weston, CT Monday night. Born Edith Herwitz in Brooklyn in 1915, she is survived by Salem Shapiro, her loving husband for 56 years. Her daughter, Amy Shapiro of Weston, son Walter Shapiro of New York and daughter-in-law Meryl Gordon, shar
 SONENFELD-Sol, died August 12, 1997, at the age of 88. Devoted husband of Bea for 55 years. Cherished father of Roberta and her husband Bob; adored and adoring grandfather of Taryn. Dear Dad, my intense sense of loss is softened only by the rich legacy and wonderful memories you've given me
 WATTENBERG-Marna Hade, of Washington, DC, on August 11th, 1997. Survived by her children, Sarah, Danny and Ruth, and grandchildren, Emma and Michael. A graduate of Fieldston and William Smith, she was active in National Council of Jewish Women, Women in Community Service, Job Corps and trad
 Anna Balakian, former chairman of the department of comparative literature at New York University and an internationally recognized scholar in the fields of Symbolism and Surrealism, died on Tuesday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. She was 82 and lived in Old Westbury, N.Y. T
 ASKIN-Lucille Bunin. Of New York and Westhampton Beach. Died on May 10, 1997 in Boston, MA. Lucille was especially known for her love and dedicated support of the arts. Throughout her career, Lucille was an independent art lecturer at New York museums and galleries with a following of many 
 BARNETT-Pearl Phillipa Geiger, 94. Died in her home on Aug. 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Nathan. Mother of Sally Barnett, Marjorie Barnett, and Barbara and Mark Goldfarb. Grandmother of Patricia Zohn, Norman Pfeiffer, Robert and Anna Zohn, Soozy Goldfarb, Andrew and Aviva Goldf
 BUNNELL-Naneen. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. notes with sadness the death of Mrs. C. Sterling Bunnell, a loyal friend of the Orchestra and its dedicated supporter. A member of the board of trustees from 1959 to 1985, Mrs. Bunnell also served as Associate Chairman of t
 HALL-Susan. Suddenly on Aug. 14, 1997 in NYC. Survived by her husband, Sam Bryan. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 JACOBS-Berenice. On August 13, 1997, at home in Great Neck. Beloved wife of Herman for fifty-three years, loving mother of Judith Huff M.D. and Michael. She also leaves a grandson Ethan, her sister Elaine Shulman and brother - in - law Robert, brother S. Lester Klepper and sister-in-law Ann
 POLON-Marjorie. On August 13, 1997. Mother of Marian and Andrew, mother-in-law of Bill, grandmother of Sara and Kate, sister of Bert and sister-in-law of Middy. She was a vital, energetic, creative, curious and loving woman. We will miss her. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, August 
 SCHWARTZ-Jean Ehrlich, of Scarsdale, NY, born June 28, 1912 in Philadelphia, PA. Beloved wife for 59 years of Asher W. Schwartz. Devoted mother of Alec and Joanne, Fred, Sue and Frank Lalle. Loving grandmother of Kyra, David, Erroll, Isaac and Nora. Wonderful aunt, great-aunt and friend. Sh
 SEIDMAN-Eva, age 68, on August 11th. Beloved wife of Dr. Emanuel Seidman. Loving mother of her daughters, Dr. Carole Israel and Sarida Harmon, and sons-in-law. Adoring grandmother to Michael, Adriana and Dylan.       
 SONENFELD-Sol, died August 12, 1997, at the age of 88. Devoted husband of Bea for 55 years. Cherished father of Roberta and her husband Bob; adored and adoring grandfather of Taryn. Dear Dad, my intense sense of loss is softened only by the rich legacy and wonderful memories you've given me
 STACK-Marie. Died on August 13, 1997 in St. Vincent's Hospital after a long illness. She was born in New York City August 16, 1915 to the late Margaret (Brooks) Stack & the late Maurice Stack. She graduated from Mary Mount College and performed a lifetime of service for The Metropolitan Ins
 WILSON-Martha, 80, of Paoli, PA. On August 8. Beloved mother, grandmother and aunt. Memorial service at her farm, August 31, at 11 AM. Donations to Paoli Hospital Cancer Center, Paoli, PA. 19301.       
 BALAKIAN-Anna. The Department of Comparative Literature and the Department of French, as well as the entire Faculty of Arts and Science of New York University, are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear colleague, Professor Emerita Anna Balakian. She left an indelible mark on us, on our st
 BARNETT-Pearl Phillipa Geiger, 94. Died in her home on August 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Nathan. Mother of Sally Barnett, Marjorie Barnett, and Barbara and Mark Goldfarb. Grandmother of Patricia Zohn and Norman Pfeiffer, Robert and Anna Zohn, Soozy Goldfarb, Andrew and Aviva 
 COLGATE-Florence Manuel, of Locust Valley, NY, peacefully on August 14, 1997, age 92. Beloved wife of the late John K. Mother of Annette Fayard of Paris, France, John K. Jr. of Mill Neck, NY and Mimi Bullock of Greenwich, CT. Grandmother of twelve, greatgrandmother of 16. Memorial service S
 POLON-Marjorie. On August 13, 1997. Mother of Marian and Andrew, mother-in-law of Bill, grandmother of Sara and Kate, sister of Bert and sister-in-law of Middy. She was a vital, energetic, creative, curious and loving woman. We will miss her. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, August 
 BALAKIAN-Dr. Anna. The Faculty and Alumni/ae of The Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism extend their condolences to Haig and Suzanne Nalbantian and their families on the death of their mother. Dr. Balakian and her sister, Nona, Class of 1943, had a long and abiding friendship 
 BARNETT-Pearl Phillipa Geiger, 94. Died in her home on August 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Nathan. Mother of Sally Barnett, Marjorie Barnett, and Barbara and Mark Goldfarb. Grandmother of Patricia Zohn and Norman Pfeiffer, Robert and Anna Zohn, Soozy Goldfarb, Andrew and Aviva 
 COLGATE-Florence Manuel, of Locust Valley, NY, peacefully on August 14, 1997, age 92. Beloved wife of the late John K. Mother of Annette Fayard of Paris, France, John K. Jr. of Mill Neck, NY and Mimi Bullock of Greenwich, CT. Grandmother of twelve, greatgrandmother of 16. Memorial service S
 FEUERSTEIN-Alice H. Devoted wife of the late Arthur, died on August 15, 1997. She was loved and admired by family, friends and students. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 GALIBER-Ethel Bowser, 96, mother of former State Senator Joseph L. Galiber of the Bronx, August 14, survived by husband of seventy-six years, Joseph F. Galiber; daughter Marilyn G. Morgan, two granddaughters, three greatgranddaughters and many other loving family members and friends. She wi
 MILLS-Helen K. Of New York City. Died at her home, August 7, 1997, of heart complications. Her career was in book publishing, as designer and as design director, for Harcourt Brace and for Macmillan. Daughter of the late Professor Frederick C. Mills and Dorothy Clarke Mills. Survived by bro
 Frances Lopata, a philanthropist known for her gifts to benefit medical research, died on Aug. 9 at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74 and had lived in New Rochelle for three decades. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son Roy. A native of New York, she marr
 McDOWELL-Margaret Holmes. Died peacefully in her home on August 14, 1997, after a brief illness. Beloved mother of Catherine Brooks, Maura Kealey, and John and Ann McDowell. Formerly a senior lawyer in the Civil Division of the New York Legal Aid Society and recently of counsel with the Fam
 WEISSBERG-Madalyn. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Madalyn Weissberg. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, 
 WRIGHT-Nellie W. On Aug. 14, 1997. Reposing Barney T. McClanahan Funeral Home, New Rochelle, NY. Visiting Tuesday, 7-9 PM. Funeral Wednesday 10 AM, New Rochelle Presbyterian Church, 50 Pintard Ave. She was predeceased by her husband Charles Wright and a son Marc Wright.       
 GRANAT-Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Carole Gerst-Katz, Roberta Bernstein-Felson and the late Joanne Granat. Dear sister of Albert Friedman. Loving grandmother of Deborah and Stephanie and great grandmother of Brittany, Luke, Corinne and Justin. Services Wednesd
 GREENBERG-Gertrude. On August 8. Beloved wife of Irving and mother of Barbara and Marilyn. Her goodness, honesty and integrity will be long remembered.       
 KLINDTWORTH-Ruth. Leucadia National Corporation announces the passing of their long time and beloved corporate secretary, Ruth Klindtworth. Ms. Klindtworth joined the company in July 1960 and was named corporate secretary in February 1976 and Vice President in 1990. All of us at Leucadia mo
 LEVY-Roslyn. Beloved wife of the late Morton. Devoted mother of Nancy and Peggy, mother-inlaw of Leonard. Cherished grandmother of Steven and wife Melissa, Elizabeth, David and Darren. She is loved and will be missed by all who knew her. Services 12pm Wednesday 8/20, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 
 McDOWELL-Margaret H. The Board of Directors, the management and staff of The Legal Aid Society mourn the death of a dear friend, a longtime supporter and excellent lawyer who dedicated nearly 30 years of service to the representation of the poor. Peggy was a person of great compassion and u
 McDOWELL-Peggy. Peggy became of counsel to the Family Law Center upon her retirement from the Legal Aid Society, Civil Division. In November 1996, she immediately became actively involved in our Family Law Practice, for working poor people, on a daily basis, while at the same time establish
 NOVICK-Nicole Dara. Beloved daughter of Carol & Gerald Acker. Passed tragically on August 17 at the age of 25. A graduate of Columbia University School of Social Work and a student of New York Law School. She leaves 2 brothers, Andrew & Robert Acker. Beloved niece of Barry and Shelly Novick
 STAKOFF-Stanley. Beloved husband of Cecile. Devoted father of Eric, Jill and her husband Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Ben, Jesse and Jayme. Survived by sister Shirley. Graveside service Tuesday, 2 PM, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York.       
 Helen Merrill, a strong-willed and influential theatrical agent who advanced the careers of many of the most imaginative playwrights, directors and designers in the American theater, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung canc
 BAUM-Leuba. Beloved wife of the late Ralph. Devoted mother of the late Carol. Dear sister of Si Pavelle. Cherished aunt of many nieces and nephews. Co-founder with her husband, Ralph, of the Judaica Museum at the Hebrew Home in Riverdale, N.Y. Service today, 12 Noon at Hunter Cemetery. Memo
 CANNO-Irma R. My darling sister Irma has left us. For all of our lifetime we shared our innermost thoughts, our joys and our sorrows. She will be in my thoughts constantly. With deepest love and affection till the end of time. Ricka CANNO-Irma R. To dearest Jonathan, Lauren, Mark, M
 HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. Of Brookville, L.I. on August 19, 1997. Beloved wife of Henry U. Harris, Jr., mother of Henry U. III (Eleanor M.), Jonathan M. (Cynthia B.) and Peter W. (Harriet R.), sister of Margaret J. Crump, grandmother of nine. Funeral Mass St. Paul the Apostle RC Church, Brookvill
 LEVY-Roslyn. Beloved wife of the late Morton. Devoted mother of Nancy and Peggy, mother-inlaw of Leonard. Cherished grandmother of Steven and wife Melissa, Elizabeth, David and Darren. She is loved and will be missed by all who knew her. Services 12pm Wednesday 8/20, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 
 MERRILL-Helen. The officers, board of directors and staff of Dramatists Play Service mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Helen was a devoted member of the Board of Directors of the Play Service for many years. We will miss her and her incredible theatre knowledge, uncann
 WEINSTEIN-Fay, on August 18, 1997, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Irving; mother of Gilbert and Caryl, Marvin and Anita. Adored grandmother and great grandmother. She was bright, loving, charitable and religiously committed. Funeral on August 20, 1997. Call Jeffers Memorial Parl
 BAUMAN-Leah. The officers, members of the National Commission and staff of the Anti-Defamation League mourn the passing of Leah Bauman, beloved mother of Golda Foxman, mother-in-law of Abraham H. Foxman, ADL National Director, and grandmother of Michelle and Ariel. With her smile, sense of 
 CASTAGNO - PETTIT - Marion Macdonald Castagno-Pettit, M.D., of West Hartford, CT., wife of James G. Pettit, died on Tuesday (August 19, 1997) at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center. She was born in West Somerville, MA, the youngest daughter of the late Angus A. and Catharine Boland Macd
 HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. Of Brookville, L.I. on August 19, 1997. Beloved wife of Henry U. Harris, Jr., mother of Henry U. III (Eleanor M.), Jonathan M. (Cynthia B.) and Peter W. (Harriet R.), sister of Margaret J. Crump, grandmother of nine. Funeral Mass St. Paul the Apostle RC Church, Brookvill
 MERRILL - Helen. Theatrical agent of distinction died on August 18, 1997 of lung cancer after a brief hospitalization. She was born in Cologne Germany in 1918 and came to the United States in 1939. She is survived by her sister Angelica Merrill Wender of New York City; her brother Hervey C.
 WERNER-Alexandra Kliatshco, August 18, 1997, age 97. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Werner. Survived by her children, Julia and Peter Stern of Newtown, CT., Gordon Werner, Santa Barbara, CA., and daughter-in-law Marie Anne Werner, grandchildren: Joe, Rachel and Bill Stern, Gordon and Dunc
 AXELRAD-Dr. Sonia Hager. Died August 21. Truly gifted person. Survivor and a victim. Assistant Professor of Romance Languages at University of Lvov. Chairlady of International Metals, Economic Affairs Office at the United Nations. She will be greatly missed. Graveside service Mount Moriah C
 BAIER-Belle. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of Belle Baier, mother of our longtime Guardian Shelby White. We extend condolences to Shelby and her family. Judy Steinhardt President, AFIM J
 BAUMAN-Leah. The Anti-Defamation League Women's Division Board extends its loving sympathy to Board member Golda Foxman and her family on the death of her dear mother. Audrey Magid, Chair Rhoda W. Korman, Director       
 BISHOP-Margaret M. The Board of Trustees of Reading Reform Foundation of NY records with sorrow the death of its founding President, Margaret M. Bishop, of Sunnyvale, CA. She was a compassionate person who cared deeply about the teaching of reading to all people. She devised a brilliant rea
 CANNO-Irma. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, Irma Canno, wife of our late life member, Leonard Canno, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her grandson, Mark, and her family. Murray B. Hirsch, President
 COOPER-Miriam. Age 67. Beloved mother of Leslie Shapiro Greenberg and the late Howard Shapiro; cherished grandmother of David and Adam Greenberg; loving mother-in-law of Joel Greenberg. Miriam was the recipient of the 1981 Children's Science Book Award for her work, ''Snap Photography.'' Sh
 FRANCIS-Rose J. Keating. Cherished and beloved wife of Joseph Henry Francis died unexpectedly, Wednesday, August 20, 1997. She was a passionate student of life, people, places and things, a compassionate and caring teacher, a leader of many causes that bettered the lives of children and the
 GAMBLE-Adeline Martocci Devine, 92, died on Wednesday at Morris Hall, Lawrenceville. Wife of the late Eugene J. Devine and the late Robert I. Gamble, she is survived by a daughter, Alice Ann D. Connolly of Pennington, NJ and a son, Eugene J. Devine of Arlington, VA, eight grandchildren, six
 HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. The Board of Directors, Medical Staff and Administration of Burke Rehabilitation Hospital mourn with deep sorrow the loss of Mary Jeanne Harris, wife of our dear friend and Director, Emeritus, Henry U. Harris. She was a tower of strength and loving support to her family,
 MERRILL - Helen. Theatrical agent of distinction died on August 18, 1997 of lung cancer after a brief hospitalization. She was born in Cologne Germany in 1918 and came to the United States in 1939. She is survived by her sister Angelica Merrill Wender of New York City; her brother Hervey C.
 NUSSBAUM-Bertha. We mourn the passing of Mrs. Bertha Nussbaum, beloved sister of Mrs. Lotte Bachrach, who together with her late husband, Ludwig, are Founders of the ''Hospital with a Heart''. Thanks to her generosity we can provide the people of Jerusalem and Israel with compassionate medi
 OGINSKI-SILVER-Miriam, age 57, Holocaust survivor, beloved wife of Graham. Adored mother of Gerald, Ronald and Robert, loving grandmother of Joseph and Shari, devoted mother-in-law of Wendy and Jill, cherished sister of Zahava Burack, Rita Nussbaum and Sarah Weiner, a woman of dignity, cour
 Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years. She was 7
 GAUTHIER-Florence M. In Brattleboro, Vermont, formerly of New York City. Survived by her daughter Linda Mills MacNiven of Reno, NV and her sister Lillian Berney of New York City. Services Monday, Brattleboro, Vermont.       
 OLSHANSKY-Nancy. The Board and Staff of the Council of Jewish Federations mourn the sudden loss of Nancy Olshansky, adored wife of Bernard, former Senior Associate Executive Vice President of the Council of Jewish Federations. Born in Boston, Nancy married Bernie in 1952. An avid reader, sh
 Hallie Crawford Stillwell, who drove a covered wagon into Alpine, Tex., in 1910, worked as a teacher and then settled down and became a Big Bend legend as a sharp-shooting ranch wife on horseback, died on Monday at an Alpine hospital, two months and two days shy of her 100th birthday.      
 Harriett R. Taylor, a senior judge of the District of Columbia Superior Court whose actions helped to ease conditions for Washington's poor and homeless, died on Monday at her home in Washington. She was 65. The cause was cancer, her family said. Judge Taylor, in a special w
 Kay Halle, a glamorous Cleveland department store heiress who cut a heady swath through the 20th century firmament, befriending and bewitching luminaries on both sides of the Atlantic and serving as a perceptive gadfly in politics, society and the arts, died on Aug. 7 at her home in Washing
 KINGSLEY-Shirley B. On August 21, 1997. Dear mother of David N. Kingsley. Cherished sister of the late Albert Burack. Shirley will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Services were held in St. Louis, Missouri on Friday, August 22.       
 WHITE-Sophie. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff wish to extend our heart felt sympathy to Board member Susan White Schweitzer on the passing of her mother, Sophie White. We extend our deepest condolences to the White and Schweitzer famili
 WOOSTER-Kathleen B. nee Browne. Born in Ireland and passed away on August 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Donald. A memorial mass will be celebrated in her honor, on Monday, 10 A.M., at Immaculate Conception Church, 414 14th Street, New York City, interment private.       
 Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines. She was 82 and a longtime resident of Des Moines. The cause w
 BECKMAN-Lucille. Family and friends deeply mourn the loss of Lucille, beloved wife of James, and devoted mother of John and James, on August 23, 1997. We will miss her greatly. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the American Cancer Society.       
 DORFMAN-Janis (Marks). Died Saturday, August 23, 1997, after a valiant battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). Loving wife of Michael; adored mother of Alyssa Scherer and Andrew; beautiful daughter of Evelyn and Stanley Marks; wonderful sister of Martin, and sister-in-law Grace, and aunt to
 ELIOT-Ruth Young. Died at home on August 23, 1997. A theatre lover all her life. She worked in the New Theatre League in the mid 1930's and The Group Theatre from 1935 to 1941, first as Executive Secretary, then as Associate Publicity Manager, and Associate Business Manager and Assistant to
 POSNER-Gertrude (nee Lieberman). Died on August 23, 1997, in Delray Beach, FL. She was the beloved wife of the late Reuben v. K. Posner; loving mother of Ann and Joe Berkman, and Judy and Ed Corwin; cherished grandmother of Bonnie and Doug Blum, Debra Goldfarb, Sara Corwin and Michael and J
 SHUGERMAN-Estelle E. On August 22, 1997. Beloved sister of thelate Howard; cherished aunt to Judith; psychologist, senior staff Bellevue Hospital. Her friends will miss her dearly. Services Tuesday, 11 AM, ''Riverside Memorial Chapel,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave, New York City.       
 BLUM-Loretta, well-known Dallas fashion retailer, passed away August 23 after a brief illness. Loretta was highly respected throughout the fashion industry, both in the United States and Europe, for her innovative sense of style. She attended Ohio State University and Tobe Coburn in New Yor
 DORFMAN-Janis. The Lord has given and the Lord has taken away, praised be the name of the Lord. As we mourn the untimely passing of Janis Dorfman, we are painfully reminded that life itself is but a loan. And so, as we come to grips with our mortality and the brevity of our lives, we can on
 ELIOT-Ruth Young. Died at home on August 23, 1997. A theatre lover all her life. She worked in the New Theatre League in the mid 1930's and The Group Theatre from 1935 to 1941, first as Executive Secretary, then as Associate Publicity Manager, and Associate Business Manager and Assistant to
 GRIER-Laurabelle (nee Robinson). After an extended illness, met with great bravery and courage, had a peaceful death on August 23, 1997. Widow of Robert S. Grier, mother of Lucy Feller and Patricia Weinberg, sister of Constance Wineman of Bloomfield Hills, Mi., sister-in-law of Marjorie Waz
 KARLIN-Lillian. Beloved mother of Susan and her husband Bruce Rosenblum. Cherished grandmother of David and Adam. Adored sister of Sidney and Robby. Graveside service Tuesday 11AM at Mount Ararat Cemetery.       
 LAVENTURE-Barbara, 89 years of age, died on August 23, in the Dobbs Ferry Hospital. She was a resident of Irvington-on-Hudson for 58 years. The wife of William Laventure, who died in 1984, she is survived by her son, Hugh Hardy, from her first marriage, to Gelston Hardy. Also survived by he
 RYERSON-Madeleine (nee Bennett). On August 12, 1997. Beloved grandmother, great-grandmother and great-great grandmother. Vassar Class of 1922. Fondly remembered by the many Latin students she taught during 40 years in the New York City Schools. Memorial Services August 31 at Wantaugh Congre
 SOBEL-Gertrude. On August 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Sigmund Sobel. She is survived by many caring friends. Services Tuesday 1:30 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 WEINBERG-Syd Brandt. Died peacefully at home on August 25 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Ralph. Devoted mother of Carol Berger and Michael B. Weinberg. Mother-in-law of Joel Berger and H. Barbara Weinberg. Grandmother of Robyn and Mark Berger. Cherished sister, sister-in-law and aunt. 
 Janet Good, a longtime civil rights worker who cooperated with Dr. Jack Kevorkian to help terminally ill people die, ended her own life yesterday in her home in suburban Detroit. She was 73. Mrs. Good had suffered from pancreatic cancer and said she hoped not to die as her mother ha
 Maria Rosa Henson, the first of a growing number of Philippine women to break a long silence and announce that she had been systematically raped by Japanese soldiers during World War II, has died at age 69. Her family said she died of a heart attack last week in the small home she h
 CARADIMAS-Coula. Died August 26, 1997, beloved widow of Costas Caradimas, devoted mother of Jennie and Dean Katsaros and Lana Caradimas, beloved grandmother of Dimitri and Elias. May her memory be eternal. Contributions to the charity of your choice.       
 KLOPPENBURG-Emily R. D. Taylor, on Saturday, August 23, 1997, after years of illness; of Mt. Lebanon (Pgh, PA), formerly of New York. Wife of the late G. Raymond Kloppenburg. Emily came to Pittsburgh to be cared for. Dearly beloved mother of Ann Rainey Aston-Reese of Mt. Lebanon (Pgh, PA) a
 MISHKIN-Ethel of Lauderhill, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Jules. Devoted mother of Wilma and Norman Michaels, David and Geraldine Mishkin, and Michael and Stacey Mishkin. Loving grandmother of Sheri and David, Stephanie and James, Meryl and Alissa, and Ryan and Faryl. Greatgrandmother 
 PAPPAS-Marianthe. On August 20, 1997. Daughter of the late Aristides and Despina Pappas, sister of the late Basil and Stavros. Survived by her sister Thalia and brother Constantine. Services were private.       
 Sara Scranton Linen, a member of one of Pennsylvania's best-known families who was a trustee of Smith College, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 84. Mrs. Linen, known as Sally, was a descendant of the family that founded Scranton, Pa., where she was born on Marc
 ARONS-Natalie O., on August 27, 1997. Beloved mother of Patricia Schanzer and Richard Orange, cherished grandmother of David, Gary, Meryl and Daniel and greatgrandmother of Eric and Hannah. Dear sister of Malcolm Steiner. Graveside services will be held today 2PM at Beth Olam Cemetery, Cypr
 CONWAY-Cathy. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the untimely passing of our cherished friend, an angel here on earth. Her kind and gentle spirit lives on and inspires us all to be better than we are. Our heartfelt condolences to Tom, Doug, Greg, Chris and Matt. Our love always, Susie, Gl
 ELIOT-Ruth. A gallant lady who was a beacon of light to us. We'll be thinking of her forevermore. Gloria and Alan Branfman       
 FINE-Valerie. Passed away suddenly on August 24, 1997 as a result of an automobile accident in her 68th year. Beloved wife of Jack and daughter-in-law of Natalie Fine. Loving mother to Janet, Harry and Carrie, Joanne and Earl and Walter and Terri. Grandmother of Robbie, Rebecca, Harrison, M
 HOFFMAN-Joseph, of Jerusalem, Israel. Beloved husband of Margit. Devoted father of Michael and Michelle Hoffman, and Judith and Ron Goldstein. Cherished grandfather of ten. Survived by sister, Eva Meyer of New York, and brother, Benjamin Hoffman of Tel Aviv. Shiva at 241 Central Park West u
 KATZ-Lillian. On August 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Michael, loving mother of Robert and Judith, cherished grandmother of Jamie, adoring sister of Harold Juris and the late Teddy Juris. Supportive aunt, great aunt and friend to many, dedicated volunteer. Contributions in her name may
 KLOPPENBURG-Emily R. D. Taylor, on Saturday, August 23, 1997, after years of illness; of Mount Lebanon (Pgh, PA), formerly of New York. Wife of the late G. Raymond Kloppenburg. Emily came to Pittsburgh to be cared for. Dearly beloved mother of Ann Rainey Aston-Reese of Mt. Lebanon (Pgh, PA)
 MISHKIN-Ethel of Lauderhill, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Jules. Devoted mother of Wilma and Norman Michaels, David and Geraldine Mishkin, and Michael and Stacey Mishkin. Loving grandmother of Sheri and David, Stephanie and James, Meryl and Alissa, and Ryan and Faryl. Greatgrandmother 
 ROSSMAN-Lena Spiegel. Passed away Aug. 20, 1997. Beloved aunt of Olga Spiegel and great aunt of Kai Ephron and Fima Ephron. She will also be missed by her many dear friends in NYC & San Diego, CA. She was a graduate of the Sorbonne in Paris and an economist. She was also a permanent consult
 SCHACHTER-Shirley. Died Aug. 27, 1997 in Sunny Isles, FL. Beloved wife of Jack, loving mother of Bob and Gloria and proud mother-inlaw to Norman Goldblatt and Wendy Schachter. Adoring grandmother of Adam, Eric & Andrea. Devoted sister of Gerry and Rita Sager and Marcia and Jack Israel. We w
 TANNERS-Iris. On August 27, 1997. Beloved aunt of Dr. Paul and Phebe Tanners, Dr. Henry and Sandy Tanners and Paul Milton and Dina Tanners. Devoted great aunt of Jonathan, Lisa, Adam, Timna, Avi and Nadav. Iris was a generous, caring person with an indomitable spirit. She will be remembered
 Loretta Blum, a fashion retailer in Dallas for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. She was 64 and lived in Dallas. The cause was a stroke, said Bud Knight, a friend and former colleague. At the time of her death, Ms. Blum was o
 ARONS-Natalie. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member, Natalie Arons. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Donald Stein, President Howard Jacobs, Secretary       
 FINE-Valerie. Passed away suddenly on August 24, 1997 as a result of an automobile accident in her 68th year. Beloved wife of Jack and daughter-in-law of Natalie Fine. Loving mother to Janet, Harry and Carrie, Joanne and Earl and Walter and Terri. Grandmother of Robbie, Rebecca, Harrison, M
 KLOPPENBURG-Emily R. D. Taylor, on Saturday, August 23, 1997, after years of illness; of Mount Lebanon (Pgh, PA.), formerly of New York. Wife of the late G. Raymond Kloppenburg. Emily came to Pittsburgh to be cared for. Dearly beloved mother of Ann Rainey Aston-Reese of Mt. Lebanon (Pgh, PA
 KOLKIN-Lucille. Age 78. Died suddenly, August 27th. Our loss of this vibrant multi-talented woman is mourned by Alfred Kolkin, her loving, devoted husband for 53 years; their daughters, Marjorie Kolkin, and Judy Kaplan and her husband Harry Kaplan; Grandchildren Jesse, & Jill, her brother P
 LYDON-Sally, on August 28, 1997. Beloved sister of James, Edward, Michael, Mary and Annarose. Devoted daughter of the late Patrick and Sarah. Funeral Mass Saturday at St. Cecilia R.C. Church, Brooklyn at 9:30 AM. Interment in Calvary Cemetery. She gave her time and boundless energy as a lon
 ZUCKERBROT-Nat. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Alice Falkenstein on the loss of her father. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 Cathleen Cordell, an actress who appeared on Broadway, in Britain and in films and television, died on Aug. 19 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 81. Miss Cordell was born in Brooklyn and educated in England and France. She trained at the Royal Academy of Dramati
 Joyce Ebert, a versatile character actress for more than 30 years with the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, died on Thursday at Southport Manor, a rest home in Southport, Conn. She was 64. The cause was cancer, said Kimberly Sewright, a spokeswoman for Long Wharf. Ms. Ebert 
 FINE-Valerie. Passed away suddenly on August 24, 1997 as a result of an automobile accident in her 68th year. Beloved wife of Jack and daughter-in-law of Natalie Fine. Loving mother to Janet, Harry and Carrie, Joanne and Earl and Walter and Terri. Grandmother of Robbie, Rebecca, Harrison, M
 GERSTEN-Esther B. Died peacefully on August 28, 1997 at the age of 99. Beloved mother of Louis, devoted sister of Kyver Blumstein, dear mother-in-law of Bess, cherished sister-in-law of Esther, fondly remembered aunt. Wife of her dearest late husband, Alfred, with whom she would wish, in th
 KOLKIN-Lucille. The Assembly of Concerned Cooperators mourns the untimely loss of our Chair, Lucille Kolkin. Her untiring devotion to our organization and to Penn South will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Al and the entire family.       
 MILLER-Alleyne. On August 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Irvin Miller. Devoted mother of Jonathan, Laura and the late Andrew Miller. Adoring grandmother of Matthew and Sophia. Dear sister of Edwin Sunshine. Cherished by her daughter-in-law Anne, her sisters-in-law Susan Sunshine and
 SHERR-Rita (Pat), 81, of Princeton, NJ on August 26, 1997 following a brief illness. She is survived by her husband Rubby Sherr two daughters, Elizabeth Sklar and Frances Sherr, and her granddaughter Jessica Sklar.       
 The death at 36 of Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car crash in Paris brought to a tragic close the life of a woman who had gone from being a shy young society girl to one of the world's most glamorous women. Her marriage to Prince Charles, heir to the British throne and 12 years her
 BEIGEL-Cara E. Bright, loving, funny, brave daughter, sister, niece, cousin and caring friend, loved by all who knew her. Services Sunday 9:30AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam.       
 ELDRIDGE - Ruth Williamson. Died August 27, 1997, at age 92, in Gwynedd, PA. She and her late husband were early residents of Foulkeways, the first Quaker retirement community. She was graduated from Schoharie High School, age 16, and Albany School of Nursing, age 20. She was a nurse with t
 FARRELL-Mildred D. (nee Driscoll). On August 29, 1997 of Floral Park, NY formerly of Bay Ridge Brooklyn. Retired NYC school teacher. Beloved wife of the late Edwin J. Dear aunt of Mary Alice Sica and Helen D. Gallagher. Loving grand-aunt of Mary Elizabeth Sica Strickland and her husband Eri
 GERSTEN-Esther B. Died peacefully on August 28, 1997 at the age of 99. Beloved mother of Louis, devoted sister of Kyver Blumstein, dear mother-in-law of Bess, cherished sister-in-law of Esther, fondly remembered aunt. Wife of her dearest late husband, Alfred, with whom she would wish, in th
 HERSCH-Anne (nee Carlin). On Tuesday, August 26, 1997. Raised in Dubuque, Iowa, over 90 years ago, Annie did the uncoventional by completing a college education and joining the WACs, rising to the rank of Sergeant. A NYC resident of 50 years, Annie was a walking ''metropolitan diary.'' Cari
 MILLER-Alleyne. On August 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Irvin Miller. Devoted mother of Jonathan, Laura and the late Andrew Miller. Adoring grandmother of Matthew and Sophia. Dear sister of Edwin Sunshine. Cherished by her daughter-in-law Anne, her sisters-in-law Susan Sunshine and
 PACE-Virginia Harris (Ginni), died suddenly on August 18, 1997 at her home in San Antonio, Texas. Ginni is the loving mother of Bradley and Katie Pace. She is also survived by her mother Catherine Harris and brothers Robert and Brian of New York City. Services were held Thursday, August 21,
 TILLONA-Francesca. I join her husband, Stephen J. Barry, my dear friend, her sister, Dr. Zina Tillona, her brother Salvatore, and her sister Patricia, in mourning the loss of Francesca. Bernard S. Solomon       
