 Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?'' for 25 years, died yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 93. Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star. She
 Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88. M
 BENNETT-RONES-Barbara. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Barbara Bennett-Rones. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband Gary, and to all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors
 CANARICK-Alaine. The Merrick Jewish Centre, Congregation Ohr Torah, mourns the passing of our beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Richard, their children Morgan, Benjamin and Lauren and the entire family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our
 DEREZEAS-Georgia. May 29, 2001, succumbed after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved sister of Antonia. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Wednesday May 30 and Thursday, May 31, 2-5 & 79PM. For funer
 DORFMAN - Roslyn (Soloway). Passed away May 31, 2001. She is the beloved wife of Sydney H.; loving mother of William (Jancy) Dorfman and Deborah (Richard) Ashenfarb; cherished grandmother of Joshua and Jed Dorfman; devoted sister of Arnold (Joan) Soloway of Brookline, MA, and sister of the 
 FINKELSHTEYN-Sveltlana, M.D. We are saddened by the loss of our dear colleague and friend, Dr. Sveltlana Finkelshteyn. Her medical skills, humanism and sunshine personality will be greatly missed. The Medical Staff and Administration of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center       
 FISCHER-Harriet Shapiro. Of Boca Raton, passed away May 30, 2001. Cherished treasure of her husband, Dr. Milton Fischer; her sons Mark and Steven Shapiro; her grandchildren Joe and Eva, and her sister Florence Justin. Her light lives on in all of us. Services Sunday, June 3, 11:30 AM, at Pl
 GRUBE-Nancy L. Died on May 30, 2001. Devoted employee of Jos E. Seagram & Sons, Inc, for 37 years. Beloved friend and coworker. She will be missed by many people whose lives she has touched. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 3, 2001, from 2-5 PM, with a religious service at 3 PM,
 GRUEN-Edith C. Passed away at age 73 on May 28, 2001 in NYC after many years of enduring Kidney Disease. Survived by her brother Peter also of NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to Selfhelp Community Services, Inc. or The Metropolitan Museum of Art.       
 HAUSER-Lee. Age 84, died at home on May 25. Beloved sister, aunt, great-aunt. Educator and business woman. She was interred at Mt. Ararat Cemetery on May 27th. She will be missed by everyone she touched.       
 KAGEN-Charlotte. On May 29, 2001, of lung cancer at age 83. Survived by her son Jim, daughter-inlaw Laure, grandson Alex and his wife Sue of Brooklyn, NY. Granddaughter Betsy of Manhattan, her niece Nancy Weiss and family of Philadelphia, PA. Charlotte was a professional actress. In the 194
 KOEN-Kety. On May 30, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. She is missed and mourned by her children and grandchildren Denise, Robert, David and Kate Fletcher, and her brother Jak Barkey and his family. Funeral service will be Sunday, at 12 noon, at John J. Fox Funeral Home Inc, 2080 Bos
 LAUTER-Harriet. On May 30, 2001. Survived by her daughters Barbara McCray and Meryl D'Attolico; sons-in-law Michael and Joseph; grandchildren Hope and Scott, Ellen and David, Kenneth and Tina, Jessica, and Joseph; great-grandchildren Spencer and Madeline. Graveside service Friday, 11 AM, at
 LONDON-Geraldine. A lifelong resident of New York City, died on Monday, May 28, 2001, in Mission Viejo, California, after a lengthy battle with cancer. Ms. London was born in Manhattan on December 28, 1909, and spent almost fifty years serving the New York City government in several capacit
 MEISNER-Roslyn. Died May 29, peacefully in her sleep after a long illness. Beloved wife of Murray. Loving mother of Ivan and Roz Meisner and Howard and Karen Meisner-Weiss. Adored grandmother of Brian, Jill, Bara, Sabrina and Adam. Respected and admired for her warmth and wisdom by her legi
 SCHIMMEL-Steffie. On May 29, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Loving mother of Daniel and Roger, dear sister of Dinah. Devoted grandmother of Michael and Jason. She will be deeply missed. Service Friday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?'' for 25 years, died on Thursday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 93. Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star. S
 CANARICK-Alaine. Our lives have been forever touched by her friendship. She was a very special person and will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to all of the family. Rochelle, Jeff, Marc, Lianne and Jay Canarick       
 ELEGANT-Belle. On June 1, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Elegant. Last surviving child of David and Minnie Goldfarb. Survived by loving nieces and nephews. Services Sunday, June 3, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FRANCIS-Arlene. The Board of Directors of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, Inc., mourns the death of our most valued friend and supporter Arlene Francis. For over 30 years she graced us with her presence as co-host of the UCP Telethon and through many other volunteer efforts. Thousan
 GIBSON-Diana Vaughan Marvin. Died of cancer on May 28, 2001, at Maine Medical Center in Portland, after a brief illness. She was a sixth generation descendant of Benjamin Vaughan, who settled in Hallowell in 1797, and whose father, Samuel, married Sarah Hallowell, daughter of Benjamin Hallo
 GRUBE-Nancy L. Died on May 30, 2001. Devoted employee of Jos E. Seagram & Sons, Inc, for 37 years. Beloved friend and coworker. She will be missed by many people whose lives she has touched. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 3, 2001, from 2-5 PM, with a religious service at 3 PM,
 HERMAN-Jeannette. Of Jackson, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on May 16, 2001. She was owner of Cameras, Etc. in Brooklyn. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Rochelle and David Herman. Dear grandmother of Jeremiah and Danielle. Loving friend of Louis Menaker. For information, 
 LONDON-Geraldine. A lifelong resident of New York City, died on Monday, May 28, 2001, in Mission Viejo, California, after a lengthy battle with cancer. Ms. London was born in Manhattan on December 28, 1909, and spent almost fifty years serving the New York City government in several capacit
 WEXLER-Ruth. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 ZAMBONI-Cecelia (nee Medvetz). Of New Canaan, CT, died on May 12, 2001. Beloved mother of Mary Elizabeth. She will be deeply missed by her dear cousins and by all who knew her. Sweet dreams lovely one.       
 Barbara Banning Tweed Estill, a New York civic leader, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. She served as the president of Big Sisters and for 25 years was on the board of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, where she focused on programs for the elderly
 Imogene Coca, the saucer-eyed, rubber-faced comedian who teamed with Sid Caesar on NBC's ''Your Show of Shows'' and kept America's Saturday night television audiences in stitches for five years in the early 1950's, died yesterday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 92. Her leer w
 BLOOM-Joanne Sobel. Age 56. Passed away May 29, 2001. Devoted wife of Robert Bloom, adored daughter of Sylvia and the late Oscar Sobel, beloved sister of Barbara and brother-in-law of Mark Lichtenstein, loving mother to Darren, Brandon and Justin Mallis, caring grandmother of Ethan Greenber
 BURROS-Janet. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Janet Burros, beloved mother of Mara Sandler, who with her husband, Ricky, are devoted leaders of UJA-Federation. Ricky has been an active member of our Wall Street Divis
 ELEGANT-Belle. On June 1, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Elegant. Last surviving child of David and Minnie Goldfarb. Survived by loving nieces and nephews. Services Sunday, June 3, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 ESSERMAN-Pauline. 101 years. Former resident of Forest Hills, died Saturday, June 2. Survived by her niece Judith Feuer and her nephew William Rosenberg, five great-nephews, one great-niece and several cousins. Beloved wife of the late Frank Esserman. Services Monday, 11 AM, at Schwartz Bro
 FARRISS-Catherine Faulconer. Of New York City, died Friday, May 25, at Cabrini Hospital in New York. A memorial service will held Friday, at 5 PM, June 8, at First Presbyterian Church. The Rev. Dr. James G. Speer will conduct the service. She was the wife of the late Carter Wood Farriss. A 
 FERENBACH-Hannah Smedley Powers. Age 85, died June 1, 2001, at Evergreen Woods in North Branford, CT. Born in Conyngham, PA, on December 27, 1915. Preceded in death by her husband Carl Ferenbach. Survived by son Carl Ferenbach and wife Judy, her daughter Polly Ferenbach Franchot, two grandd
 GRUEN-Edith C. Passed away at age 73 on May 28, 2001 in NYC after many years of enduring Kidney Disease. Survived by her brother Peter also of NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to Selfhelp Community Services, Inc. or The Metropolitan Museum of Art.       
 JOHNSON-Elaine Oberwager. 81, of Somers, NY. Died at her home on May 26. Wife of the late James F. Johnson, III. Mother of Jeff Johnson and mother-in-law of Diane Johnson, both of Milford, PA. Grandmother of Christopher of Philadelphia and Alexander of Sante Fe, N.M. Memorial service at St.
 KLEIN-Judy Graf. Dear sweet Ma. Mother, daughter, sister, friend, artist and architect. Judy Graf Klein passed away in her home on June 1. She is survived by her daughters, Adina Sabrina Klein and Oleanna Joanna Graf Klein; her mother, Diane M. Graf; and her brothers, Peter M. Graf and Rona
 KLOPFER-Wilhelmine C. In New Haven, May 31, 2001. Of 382 Central Park West, NYC. She was born June 13, 1909, in Berlin, Germany, daughter of the late, noted German Impressionist painter, Lovis Corinth and Charlotte Berend Corinth. She was an actress in Berlin Theatre in the 1930's. She was 
 SAPER-Frances. Of Great Neck, NY, on June 1, 2001. Beloved wife of Harold. Loving mother of Gary and Myles Schumer, and motherin-law of Judy Schumer and Anne Riney. Adored grandmother of Paul, Rina and Lauren Schumer. Active in her Great Neck community for almost 50 years, she was past secr
 SIEGEL-Ruth Joan Wiesel Gord of Santa Fe, NM, formerly of Belle Harbor, NY. Died on May 4, 2001, age of 86. Loving wife of the late David Harry Siegel, beloved mother of Barry Malcolm Siegel, Marjorie M. Engel, Brian Allan Siegel, devoted grandmother of Liana Laura Engel, Kyra Jacqueline an
 VENOKUR - Natalie Anapolsky. March 7, 2001. Loving wife and mother. She loved New York and was a proud Bostonian. Smart in business. Loved life. Full of laughter and loved you unconditionally. Brought love and laughter into everyones life. Helped the homeless always and gave herself selfles
 WEXLER-Ruth. Died quietly with her family by her side on Friday, June 1, 2001. Beloved wife of 68 years to Jack Wexler. Loving sister to Morton Rechler. Cherished mother to Ann and son-in-law Robert Fromer and Gary and daughter-in-law Nina Wexler. Adored grandmother to Tony, Amy, Yvette and
 YANOVER-Gail R. We mourn the passing of our colleague, Gail Yanover, RN, MS. Expert clinician, teacher, leader, and steward, Gail was our partner at Mount Sinai for over 32 years. She advocated with determination and wisdom for improvement in the environments of care for patients and famili
 FELSEN-Esther June 3, 1921-June 28, 1998 Remembered, missed and loved every day. Her Family       
 ABREVAYA-Deanna. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Deanna Abrevaya, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Eddy, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 FERENBACH-Hannah Smedley Powers. Age 85, died June 1, 2001, at Evergreen Woods in North Branford, CT. Born in Conyngham, PA, on December 27, 1915. Preceded in death by her husband Carl Ferenbach. Survived by son Carl Ferenbach and wife Judy, her daughter Polly Ferenbach Franchot, two grandd
 KLEIN-Judy Graf. Dear sweet Ma. Mother, daughter, sister, friend, artist and architect. Judy Graf Klein passed away in her home on June 1. She is survived by her daughters, Adina Sabrina Klein and Oleanna Joanna Graf Klein; her mother, Diane M. Graf; and her brothers, Peter M. Graf and Rona
 MILLER-Elaine (Goodman). Of West Hartford, CT, and Atlantis, FL, died June 1, 2001. An Honors and Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Smith College, she served a number of years on the West Hartford Board of Education. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Bennett Miller, three sons, six grandchildren
 WEXLER-Ruth. We extend heartfelt condolences to Jack and the entire Wexler-Fromer families. Ruth was deeply committed to Hadassah and Israel and most generous to our Hadassah projects. Her values of Tzeddakah are an inspiration to all. She was truly a Eishet Hayil. Great Neck Chapter of Had
 AYRE-Helen (nee Rice). In her 80th year. Beloved wife of Harry. Beloved mother of Barry and Stuart. Loving mother-in-law and best friend of Denise and Lois. Proud grandmother of Jessica, Melissa and Jake. Loving sister of Pearl Greenfield. She will be sorely missed by all who were touched b
 BERNSTEIN-Raine Sarah. Age 3, died suddenly on June 3, 2001. Beloved and adored daughter of Debra Cherney and Hartley Bernstein, granddaughter of Eleanor Bernstein and Rita and Walter Cherney, dearest friend of Lynette Houston. You filled our lives with love, wonder, laughter and joy. Funer
 GORGE-Valerie Anne. On May 26, 2001, at age 34, of Paris, France, and New York City. Treasured wife of John S. Rogers Jr., beloved daughter of Gerard and Martine. We will remember her truly courageous spirit as she endured a lengthy and difficult treatment for leukemia. Family and friends w
 HIRD-Florence. Wife of Irving for 48 years, died June 4th. She is survived by three children, Anne, Linda, and Adam, and their spouses, Paul, Daniel, and Diana. She was also Nana to her twin grandsons, Alexander and Andrew. For 25 years, she had a career as a rehabilitation counselor for in
 MOTTOLA-Jo. On June 2, 2001 at age 81. Beloved sister of Rita, John, Jeanne, Phyllis Sartori; devoted aunt of many nieces and nephews. Jo's successful Secretarial Service resulted in her Memoir, published in 1994 by sister, Rita, highlighting Jo's association with 68 celebrities. A woman of
 OSTROW-Rose (Rosie). Passed away Monday June 4, 2001. She was the devoted wife of the late Sidney Ostrow, beloved mother of Linda Lawrence, and Joan Gottlieb, and revered grandmother of Rand Lawrence, Tracy Lawrence-Brookman, Nicole and Jordan Gottlieb, as well as idolized sister of Louis H
 QUAT-Helen Victoria Shapiro. Beloved wife of the late Leon, beloved mother of Daniel and the late Joanna, and grandmother to Kevin, cherished sister of Dorothy Evslin and the late Mortimer Shapiro, and beloved aunt of Ruthy Samuel, and the Shapiro, Evslin, Lobsenz and Dayan children, died p
 WEXLER-Ruth. We extend our sincerest condolences to Jack Wexler, Ann Fromer and Gary Wexler on the passing of their beloved wife and mother. During her lifetime, Ruth embodied the qualities of courage, dignity and grace. As a Golden Founder of the Medical Center, together with her husband, 
 BASS-Lillian. Age 86. Former resident of Woodmere, N.Y. Died Sunday, June 3, 2001 in Piedmont, California where she spent the past four years. Beloved wife of the late Ralph Bass. Loving mother of Graham, Jonathan and Anthony. Devoted grandmother of Jordan, Adam and Ethan. She was an inspir
 FEHRER-Catherine of Lyme, CT, died on May 23, 2001 in NYC. She was the daughter of Mabel Vanderbilt Fehrer and the painter Oscar Fehrer. After a college teaching career, Miss Fehrer devoted her time to studying academic painting and, in particular, the Academie Julian in Paris where her fat
 FEUER-Marcia. Beloved by all who knew her. Left the body on June 5, 2001 after 102 well lived years.       
 HAMOY-Judith Lisa nee Cohen. April 25, 1950-June 4, 2001 in California. Beloved daughter of the late Franklin Cohen. Survived by her mother, Selma, her sister Diane R. Davis. Judi graduated from Queens College Cum Laude in 1973. Judi, we hope you are at peace at last. You waged a heroic fig
 PIKEN-Sally (Eliscu). Beloved wife of the late Sidney Piken and Al Ulius. Beloved aunt, great aunt, great grand aunt and friend. Loved by all who knew her, she will be missed very much. Graveside services, Thursday, 12:30 PM at Cedar Park Cemetery.       
 RUFF-Pearl. Age 86, on June 4, 2001, of Wyckoff, NJ. Predeceased by her husband Arthur and son William. Survived by her daughter Jayne and Don Joseph, daughterin-law Pauline Ruff, sister Lillian Horowitz, grandchildren Victor and Laurie, Andy and Enid, Joey and Lori, Gillian, Tami and Shaun
 THALHEIMER-Gretel Hofmann. On June 4, 2001, two days before her 99th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of Gary. Also survived by her nieces, nephews, and cousins. Services Wednesday, 11:00 AM at The Hebrew Tabernacle Congregation, 551 Fort Washington Ave. at 185 St. 
 VEREY-Rosemary, O.B.E. The Board, and staff of The New York Botanical Garden deeply regret the loss of Rosemary Verey, O.B.E., the maker of Barnsley House garden, and a Distinguished Counsellor to the Board of the Garden. Mrs. Verey died last week in England at the age of 82. One of the mos
 WEINBERG-Frances. On June 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted mother of Betty Weinberg Ellerin and Marvin. Dear mother-in-law of Milton Ellerin and Lois Paul Weinberg. Cherished grandmother of Sherry, Seth, Susan, Bruce, Stewart, Beatrice and Sidney, and her loving eighteen g
 WEXLER-Ruth. The National Board of Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., is deeply saddened by the passing of Ruth Wexler, committed life member and generous member of The Society of Guardian Donors. Together with her husband Jack, Ruth established the Ruth and Jack W
 ABELES-Sophia. Died peacefully on June 5, 2001 at age 84 after a long struggle with rheumatoid arthritis and heart problems. Sophia is survived by her beloved husband, Joseph, her daughters Lucille and Barbara, her grandson Greg and his wife Nikki, and her great-grandchildren Nola, Lily and
 COLLINS-Fannie, 101, of Jensen Beach, FL, died Friday, June 1, 2001, at Martin Memorial Medical Center, Stuart, FL. Born in Washington, D.C. she had been a resident of Jensen Beach since 1974. Prior to retirement she was a Fashion Artist for Women's Daily Wear in New York City. For more inf
 DAGLIAN-Barbara F. On June 5, 2001. Beloved mother of Lisa, Ara Paul, grandmother of Ara Paul, Jr. and Katie, sister of Georgia Messemer. Yankee fan and friend to many, died peacefully to join her parents, friends and favorite pets in heaven. A memorial service will be held Friday, June 8, 
 GREENSTEIN - Sylvia (nee Schechter) on June 6, 2001. She was predeceased by her husband Joseph. She was a loving mother of Linda and Howard Schwartz, caring grandmother of Brian and Nancy Schwartz, Lisa and David Sternberg, Andrew and Kelly Schwartz, and loving ''Bubbie'' to her great grand
 LEVIN-Martha T. (nee Fried). 80. Of NYC and Jamaica Plain, MA. Graduate of Julia Richman HS and Hunter College. Very much loved by her children Andy, Peri and Susanna and her grandsons Ari, Tobin and Noah. Memorial service on Saturday, 10AM at the First Church of Jamaica Plain, MA       
 MENDIK-Bernard H. The Center for Preventive Psychiatry records with sorrow the death of Trustee Laurie Mendik's father. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Laurie and her family. Timmy Weinberg, Chair, Board of Trustees       
 MIKULAY-Emmie S. Of Whitefish Bay, WI, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. May 24, 2001, age 47 years. Beloved wife of Robert. Proud mother of David. Dear grandmother of Glavens ''Meme'' David. Memorial services will be held at 11 AM, Saturday, June 9, at First Presbyterian Church, 124 Henry St, Broo
 SILVER-Jerry. The Center for Preventive Psychiatry records with sorrow the death of Trustee Barbara Tavrow's father. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Barbara and her family. Timmy Weinberg, Chair, Board of Trustees       
 SYLVESTER-Clara (nee Condeles). On June 5, 2001. Survived by her beloved husband Al and devoted sister Yorka C. Linakis retired Justice New York State Supreme Court. Clara was a remarkable lady whose quiet elegance, dry wit and warm spirit will always be remembered. She was a devout member 
 WEINBERG-Frances. The New York Women's Bar Association extends its sincere condolences to our esteemed member, Justice Betty Weinberg Ellerin on the passing of her mother. Phyllis S. Koffman, President       
 Rosemary Verey, the tough, artistic English gardener who brought the art of clipped boxwoods, laburnum walks and ornamental vegetable gardening to America, died in Chelsea Memorial Hospital in London on May 31. She was 82. ''She was a marvelous lecturer and she knew so much,'' said 
 Dorothy Brockway Osborne, a former headmistress of the Spence School, a Manhattan private school for girls, died on Tuesday at her home in Concord, N.H. She was 103. She headed Spence from 1936 until 1952. Founded in 1892, the school has been at 22 East 91st Street since 1929.      
 ABELES-Sophia. The Board of Trustees, the Foundation Board of Directors, the faculty and the students of Westchester Community College will greatly miss the warmth and caring presence of their colleague, friend and benefactor, Sophia Abeles. As an individual, and in her capacity as vice pre
 DAGLIAN-Barbara F. On June 5, 2001. Beloved mother of Lisa, Ara Paul, grandmother of Ara Paul, Jr. and Katie, sister of Georgia Messemer. Yankee fan and friend to many, died peacefully to join her parents, friends and favorite pets in heaven. A memorial service will be held Friday, June 8, 
 HOLLAND-Frances McLaughlin. Died in Yonkers, NY, on June 5, 2001. She was predeceased by her husband of 62 years, John R. Holland, and leaves her children John F. Holland, Roschel Holland Stearns, Marlin Ebbert and Jane Holland, and her grandchildren Holly, Ward and Julie Ebbert, and Alexan
 LEWIS-Julia (nee Henckel). Born April 12, 1917, of Washington, DC, formerly of Long Beach Island, NJ, died on June 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Jerome Shapiro. She is survived by her children Jane, Judi, JeriAnn, Jeffrey, and Joshua Shapiro, and five grandchildren. Graveside burial at 
 NETTO-Kathryn C. On June 6, 2001, at age 72. Beloved wife of Eldo, loving mother of David, devoted daughter of the late Frank A. and Madelyne Cosgrove. Interment private. The family warmly invites friends to attend a memorial service to celebrate Kate's life at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Le
 POMMERS-Leon. On June 7, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Loving father of Alice Greenwood and her husband Bob. Dear brother of Bertha Katz. Adoring grandfather of Dara, David and Stephanie Greenwood. Renowned pianist and beloved teacher. Service Friday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,
 WATERMAN-Elise DaCosta. On June 7, 2001, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Philip M. Waterman. Devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Philip M. Waterman Jr. and Jane, Marie W. Harris and Kenneth. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip M. Waterman III, Anne L. Waterman, Kenneth A. 
 Dr. Pamela Hilliard Robertson, a rookie astronaut, died on May 24 from injuries sustained two days earlier in a small-plane crash. She was 38. The accident took place just outside Houston, where Dr. Robertson was based at the Johnson Space Center of the National Aeronautics and Spac
 WATERMAN-Elise DaCosta. On June 7, 2001, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Philip M. Waterman. Devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Philip M. Waterman Jr. and Jane, Marie W. Harris and Kenneth. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip M. Waterman III, Anne L. Waterman, Kenneth A. 
 Louise Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103. Mrs. Sulzberger was the wi
 BASS-Janet G. Of Auburndale, MA. Widow of Leonard L. Bass. Daughter of Louis and Anna Galaton. Beloved mother of Lucille Bass of New York City, Martha Riquier of Needham, MA, and Barbara Baumgardner of Sudbury, MA, and cherished grandmother of Andrea and Adam Riquier and Sarah Baumgardner. 
 BENJAMIN-Ranana (nee Goldberg), on June 7th, 2001 at age 82. Born in NYC, formerly of Great Neck, NY and a resident of Lake Worth, FL. Beloved wife of Joseph for 60 years, dear sister of Natalie and Joseph. Devoted mother of David, Laura and Daniel, loving grandmother of Alexander, Nicholas
 BERMAN-Lily. Died on June 4 in Bridgehampton. She brought joy to all who knew her, especially Lewis, Amanda, Meredith Berman, Michelle Marchildon and Anne MacIntosh and all her friends at Park East. Memorial contributions may be directed to Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine,
 FUND-Dorothy. Died June 1, 2001, in Hollywood, FL, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Bert Fund. Loving sister of Anne Kaplan. Cherished aunt of Cynthia Kirsch and Robert Wellins. Adored grandaunt of Christopher and Alex and great-aunt of Jake, Max and Zachary. Aunt Dotty is de
 GOLDMAN-Tillie. Born in 1906, Tillie was a sophisticated child of the new century, an All American girl who loved NYC, FDR, George Gershwin and Central Park. We'll miss her.       
 LERNER-Evelyn Berg. Age 88, on June 8, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Martin E. Lerner. Loving mother of Joan Stein and Norma Lerner, mother-in-law of Robert Stein and George Schwartz, grandmother of Amanda, Elizabeth, Andrew and David. She will be missed.       
 NETTO-Kathryn C. On June 6, 2001, at age 72. Beloved wife of Eldo, loving mother of David, devoted daughter of the late Frank A. and Madelyne Cosgrove. Interment private. The family warmly invites friends to attend a memorial service to celebrate Kate's life at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Le
 QUAT-Helen Victoria Shapiro. Beloved wife of the late Leon, beloved mother of Daniel and the late Joanna, and grandmother to Kevin, cherished sister of Dorothy Evslin and the late Mortimer Shapiro, and beloved aunt of Ruthy Samuel, and the Shapiro, Evslin, Lobsenz and Dayan children, died p
 SCAPIER-Evelyn (nee Zeiger). Died May 28, in New York. Born in Chicago, she was the daughter of Moishe and Bessie Zeiger. In 1946, she married Dr. Joseph Scapier, a pioneer in cancer research, who, after being awarded the Legion of Honor, was brought to New York from the Pasteur Institute i
 SOLED-Sylvia (Selma). On June 8, 2001, in North Miami Beach, FL. Formerly of Bayside, NY. Devoted wife of the late Lou Soled. Beloved mother of Gerard (Brenda), Stephen (Ronni), and the late Carol Cohen. Loving grandmother of Amanda Soled and Julie Cohen. She will be greatly missed.       
 VENOKUR - Natalie Anapolsky. March 8, 2001. Loving wife and mother. She loved New York and was a proud Bostonian. Smart in business. Loved life. Full of laughter and loved you unconditionally. Brought love and laughter into everyones life. Helped the homeless always and gave herself selfles
 WATERMAN-Elise DaCosta. On June 7, 2001, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Philip M. Waterman. Devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Philip M. Waterman Jr. and Jane, Marie W. Harris and Kenneth. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip M. Waterman III, Anne L. Waterman, Kenneth A. 
 Louise B. Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103. Mrs. Sulzberger was t
 ABOLAFIA-Lee, 84, after a long and courageous struggle with M.S. Beautiful and cherished wife of the late Ralph. Loving mother of the late Rochelle, and Sondra Blank. Mother-in-law to Benjamin Blank. Adored grandmother of Stacy Lee, Dean, and Steve. Greatgrandmother to Rachel, and Jacob Rap
 BERMAN-Lily. Died on June 4 in Bridgehampton. She brought joy to all who knew her, especially Lewis, Amanda, Meredith Berman, Michelle Marchildon and Anne MacIntosh and all her friends at Park East. Memorial contributions may be directed to Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine,
 HITTLEMAN-Eva. Of Long Beach, passed away peacefully on June 9, 2001. Widow of Charles Hittleman. Mother of Warren, Sandra, Karen and the late Arnold Hittleman. A cherished grandmother, she will be missed by Jerry, Bruce, Linda, Laura, Jude, Matthew, Greg, Neal, Chanie, and Carly. Loving gr
 LERNER-Evelyn Berg. Age 88, on June 8, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Martin E. Lerner. Loving mother of Joan Stein and Norma Lerner, mother-in-law of Robert Stein and George Schwartz, grandmother of Amanda, Elizabeth, Andrew and David. She will be missed.       
 WOLF-Maggie. Age 45. Beloved wife of P. Geoffrey Lowney, mother of Sam. Marketing Vice President, Polaroid. Graduate of Greenwich High School 1973, Yale 1977, Columbia Business School 1984. She was a delight to everyone lucky enough to know her. Services June 12, 2 PM, at First Parish Unita
 ALEXANDER-Rose Marie. 100. Loving matriarch of the Weinbaum family. Survived by her son Dan, daughter-in-law Lou, grandchildren Dana, Dan, Jr., and David, great grandchildren Sarah, Emily, Alex and Ethan and special grand niece Tracy. Visistation Tuesday 7-9pm. Services Wednesday 11:30am Th
 BRILL-Estelle, nee Schwartz. Most beloved wife of Malcolm, devoted mother of Michael (Patricia) and Judith (Joseph) Artusa. Cherished grandmother of Jason, Samantha, Sabrina, Benjamin and Laura. Loving sister of Frank (Simone) and Martin (Adrienne) Schwartz. You will always be in my thought
 COHEN-Gertrude. On June 9th, 2001 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Harry. She will be missed by her daughters, Barbara Zelner and Myra Borchard, their husbands, Martin and William, and her grandchildren, Bennet, Emily, Jillian and Thomas. Services private.       
 CORNELL - Patricia Jane. (1925-2001). A gentle and glowing star of stage and family, went peacefully to her rest on Friday, June 8, 2001, in Santa Monica, CA, 75. With sister Shirley, Pat starred with Olsen and Johnson from 1939 to 1948 when she became an executive at J. Walter Thompson. A 
 ESTILL-Barbara. Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc., mourns the passing of Ms. Barbara Estill, a very distinguished leader and beloved friend. Ms. Estill served on our Board for 25 years, where she focused on programs for the elderly and public social policy. Her generous suppor
 FERRY-Carol Bernstein, 76. Peacefully ended her own life on June 9, 2001 as she was suffering from cancer and advanced lung disease. A resident of Rye, she was the widow of Daniel J. Bernstein and W. H. Ferry. She leaves two children, Katherine and John Bernstein, and four stepchildren, Den
 GOLDMAN-Tillie. Born in 1906, Tillie was a sophisticated child of the new century, an All American girl who loved NYC, FDR, George Gershwin and Central Park. We'll miss her. Survived by daughter, Barbara Londin, sons, Marc and Tony Goldman, daughter-in-law, Janet, grandchildren, Victoria, R
 HADDAD-Mary Lou (nee Scorsone). On June 10, 2001, after a long illness. She has been a teacher at P.S. 142 in Manhattan since 1984. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jamil R. Haddad, three sons, Ralph, John, and James, and five grandchildren. She is also survived by her mother, Mary, and 
 INNELLI-Hopey (nee Duka) of Jericho, LI, was called to the service of the Lord on June 11, 2001. Beloved wife of Frank T. Loving mother of John F., Michele I. Cox, Hope Schwab and Frank T. Jr. Dear sister of Doris Smile-Mezin, Eleanor E. Newton, the late Daniel, and the late Helen Mustello.
 KAHN-Ella J., one hundred and three years old, died peacefully in her home on Saturday, June 9, 2001. Beloved mother of Herbert Kahn and Carol Colen. She is survived by her grandchildren Judy Kruger, Susan Colen-Fowler, Rick Kahn and Ken Colen and four great grandchildren.       
 MARIA-May H. Died on June 8, 2001, in Austin, Texas. She was the first woman to receive a Ph.D in mathematics in 1929 from Rice University in Houston, Texas. In 1938 she married Dr. Alfred J. Maria and both taught at Brooklyn College. She is survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Funeral 
 WEINBERG-Alice. On June 9. Beloved wife of the late Stanley. She will be remembered for her kindness, generosity, humor and commitment to volunteerism. She will be missed by her four children, six grandchildren, and all who knew her. For further information call ''Sinai Chapels'' 800-446-04
 MOSSHOLDER-Terry, 53, passed away of cancer on May 6. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, June 14 at 4 PM at the Park Avenue United Methodist Church on 106 East 86th St. A reception will occur at the church following the Memorial Service. Ms. Mossholder was a resident of New York C
 Yaltah Menuhin, a pianist and the younger sister of the violinist Yehudi Menuhin, died on Saturday, The Times of London reported. The Times did not report where she died. She was 79. Ms. Menuhin, the youngest of the three Menuhin siblings, who all became prominent musicians, was bor
 ALEXANDER-Rose Marie. 100. Loving matriarch of the Weinbaum family. Survived by her son Dan, daughter-in-law Lou, grandchildren Dana, Dan, Jr., and David, great grandchildren Sarah, Emily, Alex and Ethan and special grand niece Tracy. Visitation Tuesday 7-9pm. Services Wednesday 11:30am The
 FERRY-Carol Bernstein. The spirit of Ms. Ferry's lifelong dedication to social justice will continue to inspire us. Center for Constitutional Rights FERRY-Carol Bernstein, 76. Peacefully ended her own life on June 9, 2001 as she was suffering from cancer and advanced lung disease. A
 JACKSON-Genevieve C. Of Fishkill, NY died June 8, 2001. She was 89. Born April 6, 1912 in Tampa, Florida to Frank and Loretta Mapp Glover. A bandleader and entertainer in the 1930's and 1940's with jazz bands in the South, Florida Collegians and The Original Inkspots in Harlem. She raised h
 OGDEN-Mary Eversley, 85. Of Merwin Ave. Milford, CT died on June 11, 2001, in Branford, CT. Mrs. Ogden was born on September 8, 1915, in Setauket, L.I., New York to the late Eversley and Margherita Abbey Kyburg Childs. She is the widow of the late Richard A. Ogden of Darien and New York Cit
 ROBECK-Gertrude M. Formerly of New York and New Canaan; at her home in Pacific Palisades, California; on May 30, 2001, after a short illness. She was 83. Trudy was born in Muskegon, MI, and grew up in Pasadena, CA. She attended the Bennett School, Millbrook, NY, and graduated from UCLA, whe
 RUDNICK-Rebecca S., 48. Was drowned on June 2 in Papua New Guinea when the boat on which she was a passenger capsized and sank. She was a Visiting Professor of Law at Boston College. The author of numerous papers in the taxation area, she was a ''floating'' professor whose 14 appointments i
 STROCKER-Edna. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of our esteemed member, Edna Strocker, and extends their sincerest sympathy to her husband Stanley and her beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 WECHTER - Vivienne Thaul. Passed away at age 91, at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City on June 12, 2001. At the time of her death, she was a Professor of the Psychology of Creativity at Fordham University, and its Artist-inResidence. Vivienne was a star whose light shone brightly and wil
 WEISS-Mollie G., 92. Died Monday at Nathan Adelson Hospice. She was born September 29, 1908 in Brooklyn, NY. A homemaker, she was a three year resident of Las Vegas and a member of Free Sons of Israel, F.D.R. Chapter, B'nai B'rith and Forest Hills Jewish Center. She is survived by her daugh
 Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.  
 COHEN-Irene, 91. Passed away June 13. A Hunter College graduate and NYC school teacher, she also worked in department store personnel. She moved to Florida in 1971 via the Bronx and Forest Hills. Survivors include her son, daughter-in-law, two granddaughters, niece and cousins.       
 FAGIN-Ralph. On June 13, 2001 at age 94. Beloved husband of Sophie. Dear brother of Theodore. Stepfather of Miriam and her husband Barry. Grandfather of Elliot and Rachel. Uncle of Beth. Graveside service today, 1 PM at Cedar Park Cemetery.       
 FERRY-Carol Bernstein. The Board and Staff of The Correctional Association of New York mourn deeply the loss of their friend, colleague, and guide in the effort to create a just and humane society. Carol's intelligent insights and passionate beliefs were rare. Her courage in acting on them 
 GARRIGUE-Sheila Kathleen. Died June 9, 2001 at her home in Chappaqua. A memorial will take place at 4:00 P.M. Monday, June 18 at the Presbyterian Church of Mt. Kisco (914-666-7001). Contributions in Mrs. Garrigue's memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 Yo
 GARRY-Elinore. Died at Connecticut Hospice June 13th with her family at her side. Loving wife, mother and grandmother. She fought the good fight.       
 KLINGER-Tathiana S. (Tomi). Died Tuesday, June 12, 2001 in Concord, NH. Devoted wife of Dr. Leo Klinger for 61 years. She is survived by her husband, her children and their spouses: Ann and Dana Turner of Austell, Ga., Charles and Carol Klinger of Honeoye Falls, NY and Bernard and Eda Kling
 NIKOLIS-Artie. On June 12, at age 74. A longtime resident of Port Washington, NY, she owned Festival of Food. Beloved wife of the late Peter. Devoted and cherished mother of Bill, Anna, Phillip (Sally) and the late Gary. Loving sister of George Kosefas and dear cousin of George & Mary Mihal
 ONDOVCSIK-Maryann, 56. Of Brooklyn, NY, died Tuesday, June 12th, 2001 at Connecticut Hospice, Branford, CT. Born in Sewickley, PA. she is the daughter of Paul Ondovcsik Jr. of Ambridge, PA and the late Anna (Syka) Ondovcsik. She lived her adult life in NYC. Maryann was a graduate of Ambridg
 PHILIPSON-Dorothy. Died June 11, 2001. Loving mother, grandmother, and great grandmother. Survived by two sons, Michael and Robert Friedman, her sister, Martha Philipson, and six great grandchildren. You will be in our hearts forever.       
 PLOTKIN-Selda. Dearly beloved daughter of the late Rabbi Benjamin and Helen of Jersey City, NJ. Most cherished and devoted twin sister of Eda. Member of Congregation Emanuel of Jersey City, NJ. Life member of Hadassa, master teacher, beautiful, talented, accomplished and committed to the ca
 SHERMAN-Arlene Stam. Of Manhattan, died in her daughters' arms on June 12, 2001. Born May 8, 1927, Arlene was predeceased by her parents, Jacob Stam and Ida Kerbel Stam, and her eldest sister, Shirley Stuart. Mrs. Sherman was the managing partner of Arstam Realty, a former teacher, an activ
 WECHTER - Vivienne Thaul. Passed away at age 91, at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City on June 12, 2001. At the time of her death, she was a Professor of the Psychology of Creativity at Fordham University, and its Artist-inResidence. Vivienne was a star whose light shone brightly and wil
 WILSON-Kimberley Reese. With Roth Capital Partners in Los Angeles. Died on Monday, June 4, 2001, in Illinois, at the age of 39. Survived by her mother Marily Purkiss Wilson, sister Durinda and brothers Murray and Craig. Services will be held at 2:00 P.M., Friday June 15, at the Corona Del M
 FITZGERALD-Doris (nee Stout). On June 13, 2001. Former Dean of Manhattan Community College. Beloved wife of the late John T. Devoted mother of Ellen, Jean and Gerald. Memorial visitation will be held Tuesday 5-7 pm at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. (at 20 St.), NYC. Interment private
 FORTUNA-Alice Caulfield, 81 died June 8 in her home in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. She leaves her daughter Elizabeth B. Foerster of Escondido, CA. Stepdaughter Susan J. Fortuna of Orange Park, FL, her sister Marie Martinez of Forest Hills, NY, as well as six loving grandchildren and numerous nie
 HOPKINS-Mary Penfield, age 86. Formerly of NY, on June 13, 2001 at Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, Virginia. She was the daughter of the late Walter Lane Hopkins and Anna Lamb Hopkins. She is survived by her niece Nancy Hopkins. Interment private.       
 KAHN-Ruth. On June 12, 2001. Our cherished friend and mentor. We cannot imagine what our world will be like without her. We are profoundly grateful for the friendship, leadership and direction she gave to us and to our organization, and to the larger communities of Clinton and Chelsea. She 
 O'CONNOR-Mary S. Age 88, passed away on June 10, 2001 at Meadow Lake in Hightstown, NJ. Mrs. O'Connor was born in New Britain, CT and resided in Elizabeth, NJ for many years before moving to Meadow Lakes in June of 1996. Mrs. O'Connor is an alumnus of the Oxford School in West Hartford, CT 
 RADBELL-Charna. We mourn the passing of our dear friend who possessed a remarkable passion for life. Possessed with intelligence, beauty and charm, she was an inspiration to us all. Not only will our thoughts be with her when hiking in Aspen, but when faced with life's obstacles we will alw
 FERRY-Carol Bernstein. The board and staff of the A.J. Muste Memorial Institute mourns the passing of this gracious woman and, with her late husband, Ping, was one of our original supporters. Our deepest condolences to her family and friends.       
 KURLAN-Roslyn. Died on June 15, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Herbert and Fran Kurlan, Norman and Kim Kurlan and Arlene and Jack Levine. Cherished grandmother of eleven. She was a master bridge player and a world traveler. She will be in our hearts forever. Servic
 PAGET-Evelyn. Of Manhattan. Cherished daughter of the late Mayer and Ettie Paget. Beloved aunt, sister-in-law, cousin and friend. She was a very intelligent, compassionate & cheerful person, a mentor to many health professionals. Her spirit and vitality as well as her bravery will be rememb
 ALBAM-Bertha. On June 14, 2001, in her 94th year. Loving aunt of Aliza Adler. Service Monday, 12 noon at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 ALPERT-Shirley. Of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, formerly of Great Neck, N.Y. died on June 12, 2001. She is survived by her daughters June Streisand and Barbara Grossman. Graveside service at Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, N.Y. on June 21, 2001 at 10:30 AM.       
 GREENBERG-Judith Hoffman. Born 1920 in Chicago. Died on June 14. University of Chicago class of '47. She lived 50 years in Greenwich Village. Daughter of the late Dr. I.M. Greenberg and Claire Hoffman, sister of the late Suzanne Paul. Survived by her brother and sister-in-law Dr. Nathaniel 
 HAIM-Rita Feige de. June 2nd, 2001 in Argentina. Wife of Erico. Mother of Eduardo and Liliana. Mother-in-law of Graciela and Sergio. Grandmother of Natalie, Sophia, Magali and Denise. We love and miss her so much. Her charm and wisdom will be missed by all who knew her.       
 KAHN-Ruth. Age 75. Beloved mother and grandmother, community leader and neighborhood activist, distinguished psychiatric social worker and advocate for human services. She raised two daughters as a single mother after the early death of her cherished husband Dr. Seymour Lion Kahn, and was a
 KAYE-Louise (Lisel). On June 16, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Leo Kaye, loving mother of Tom Kaye. Adoring mother-in-law to Vivian Kaye. Devoted grandmother of Juliet Kaye and dearest friend to Lenora Johnson. A courageous, independent, sweet inspiration to all those who knew her.       
 LEFKOWITZ-Roslyn. Formerly of Laurelton, New York, and resident of Boca Raton, FL, after a short illness. Beloved wife of David for 65 years, loving mother of Lynn (Steve) Axelrad and Charles Lefkowitz. Adored grandmother of Stacy (Cory) Robins, Andrew Axelrad, Marni Axelrad, Randy Lefkowit
 MORRIS-Eleonor. A pioneer social worker who retired from the U.S. Administration on Aging in 1980, passed away June 1, 2001, from complications following surgery. She was 87. A celebration of her life will be held Wednesday, June 27, at the Laura Parsons Pratt Conference Center, 281 Park Av
 RADBELL - Charna. Beloved daughter of Arlene and Larry. Cherished sister of Nicole and Jason Rabin. Loving aunt of Morgan Paige Rabin. To our hero who taught us more than we taught her, you will be in our hearts and thoughts forever. We love you. Donations in her memory to the Charna Radbel
 RUDNICK-Rebecca S., 48. Was drowned on June 2 in Papua New Guinea when the boat on which she was a passenger capsized and sank. She was a Visiting Professor of Law at Boston College. The author of numerous papers in the taxation area, she was a ''floating'' professor whose 14 appointments i
 Judith Moses, a television news producer and teacher who also worked to expose the abuses confronted by journalists working on dangerous assignments abroad, died at home in Manhattan on Saturday. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan and Kent, Conn. The cause was liver cancer, her husba
 FELTER-Rose (Brady). Died peacefully at the age of 103, on June 14, 2001. Born in the year that NYC was incorporated, through three different centuries, Rosie witnessed the City evolve from the gaslights and the first car on the streets of Greenwich Village to high speed internet access thr
 JACOBI-Ruth. Died June 16, 2001, in Staten Island Hospital, from complications from two surgeries to repair a fractured hip. Devoted wife of 45 years of the late Sidney Jacobi who died on the same date in 1983. Beloved mother and grandmother of Ronna and Dr. Bernard Telsey, Joshua Telsey, D
 KURLAN-Roslyn. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 LOVE-Nancy (nee Loew). On June 8, 2001. Born November 24, 1927, San Francisco, CA. Longtime resident of NYC. At one time public relations representative for Barbara Walters, Alex Hailey, Hal Linden and others. She was an active member on the Board of the Hudson Guild for a number of years. 
 MILLER-Roselyn. 82, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, and Cranberry, NJ, died peacefully at home on June 16, 2001. She was the adored wife of Saul. Cherished mother of Emily Miller Budick and Lawrence D. Miller. Mother-in-law of Sanford Budick and Wendy Miller. Grandmother o
 MOSES-Judith. 61, died at home on June 16. Survived by husband Harry; daughter Anne, son-in-law Ray Buffalo, and granddaughter Violet of San Francisco; and mother Elaine Weil of Philadelphia. Funeral private. There will be a memorial service to be announced later. In lieu of flowers, contri
 SIEGEL-Pearl Kluger. Died June 12, 2001, at home. Professor of American History and social activist. Devoted wife of the late Charles Siegel, beloved mother of Roberta Columbus and mother-inlaw of Ronald, cherished grandmother of Eric and Nikki. A scholar of the past who was ahead of her ti
 SOBIN-Antoinette, Ph.D. In Honolulu, Hawaii, on June 12, 2001, on the eve of her 85th birthday. Retired NYC Board of Education and Deputy Director of Labor Relations for the City of NY. Beloved wife of the late Irving Sobin. Devoted mother of Dennis Sobin and Judy Sobin. Loving grandmother 
 PATTI SMITH appears quietly inside Caffe Dante in Greenwich Village, her gray-streaked hair dripping wet and stringy around her long, angular face from the Sunday morning downpour. She isn't carrying an umbrella. And her soaked appearance isn't on her mind at this early hour. The go
 Jennifer Moyer, president of Moyer Bell Ltd., book publishers, died on June 10 at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 52. The cause was breast cancer, Moyer Bell announced. Based in Wickford, R.I., the publisher specializes in art books and literature. Ms. Moyer and her husb
 BARNETT-Minna. Died June 17, 2001. She was a former New York City school teacher and served in the Office of Education Liaison during the Lindsay administration. She is survived by Molly and Irwin Feigin; Elaine Rubin; Malcolm, Judy and Jen Barnett and Radha and Izare Mohammed. Contribution
 FRANDSEN-Birgitta. We mourn the sudden passing of our cherished friend, Bitten. Her longtime friendship and devotion to SWEANY and her inspiration, joy and gloreous love of life will always follow us. She has joined her beloved Brownie. We extend our deep symapthy to her family. Memorial at
 FREEDMAN-Beatrice S. Born June 20, 1909 to Jennie and Louis Sheiman. Died on June 16, 2001. Loving wife of the late Jerome. Adored mother of Lee, Vivienne, and Ruth. Devoted grandmother of Jill, Bruce, Andrew, Georgia, David, and Leah. Cherished great grandmother of Ryan, Erica, Alexander, 
 HACKLEY-Helena J. Mother of four children, Emilia Fanjul, Anthony May, Helena Martinez & Sherlock Hackley, Jr., grandmother of eight grandchildren and one great granddaughter, died Monday, June 18, 2001, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Mrs. Hackley was born in Paris, France, on S
 JACOBI-Elaine. Of New York City, on Saturday, June 16, 2001, age 82. Wide of the late Sidney Jacobi. Devoted mother of Dana Jacobi. Beauty was her life. Sitting at Elaine's home, June 21 and 22, after 2 PM.       
 KATZENSTEIN - Esther. Our worldwide family mourns the loss of a dear and special lady, whose kindness touched so many, both in Eretz Yisrael and in her own community. Modesty & acts of tzedekah graced her life. For more than fifty years she was tireless in her efforts to provide quality hea
 MARX-Hedwig (Nee Simon). Died June 18, 2001 in her 95th year, after a long and courageous battle with Alzheimer's. She is survived by her daughter Ellen Kramer and much loved and wonderful son-inlaw, Burt, with whom she resided the last years of her life. She will forever be remembered for 
 O'CONNOR-Mary S. Age 88, passed away on June 10, 2001 at Meadow Lake in Hightstown, NJ. Mrs. O'Connor was born in New Britain, CT and resided in Elizabeth, NJ for many years before moving to Meadow Lakes in June of 1996. Mrs. O'Connor is an alumnus of the Oxford School in West Hartford, CT 
 PARLAPIANO-Eleanor. Died on June 14th, 2001. Survived by her sister, Anne Lee; niece, Joanne; nephews, Michael and Terence, and her aunt, Claudia Val. May she rest in peace.       
 SCHULLER-Frieda (nee Frankovits) died at home June 17, shortly after her 98th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Otto E. Schuller, cherished mother of Susan M. Vock, beloved mother-in-law, grandmother and adoring greatgrandmother. We will always remember her independent spirit and great gen
 SPITZ-Agatha Welsch Kessler. Beloved wife of Benjamin Spitz, mother of Lawrence Kessler, grandmother and great-grandmother. A teacher of English at Flushing High School for 30 years and a good companion of her many friends in her retirement. The funeral will be at 1 PM on Tuesday, June 19, 
 TEICHER-Mildred (Mickey). Died in Miami, FL. on June 17, 2001. Beloved wife of Morton for 60 years. Cherished mother of Phyllis and Alvin Goldman, Oren Teicher and Alison Greene. Proud grandmother of Elizabeth, Mattis, Mark, Carrie, Jessica and Zachary. Devoted daughter of the late Esther a
 ZARETT-Jennie. Died peacefully at age 93 on June 18, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Zarett, loving mother of Pearl Doblin and Shirley Gale. Devoted grandmother of Debra (Marc) Rich & Larry Gale. Great grandmother of Alec Rich. She will be missed. Services private.       
 Amalia Mendoza, a diva of mariachi music whose dramatic performances brought fans to tears on both sides of the United States-Mexico border, died here on June 11. She was 78. The cause was a disease that slowly paralyzed her lungs, news reports said. Famous for songs like ''
 BERTRAND - Marion Barrett (Mrs. John J.) of Greenwich, CT, died on Monday, June 18, 2001. She is survived by her daughters, Barbara (Mrs. T. Brock Saxe) of New Canaan, CT, Marion (Mrs. Robert K. Eagan) of Harrison, NY, and her daughter-in-law, Linda (Mrs. Charles B. Bertrand) of Palm City, 
 COBB-Dorothy Laura. Died June 16, 2001 at home, at the age of 99. Born in Staten Island, NY in 1901, the daughter of Merton Raleigh Cobb and Elsie Hathaway Cobb. Retired head librarian of the St. Agnes Branch of the New York Public Library. Dorothy was a loyal and active participant in the 
 HOFMANN-Adele D., MD. A pioneer in adolescent medicine, extraordinary mentor and loving mother, Dr. Hofmann died June 15, 2001, at the age of 74. Hofmann graduated from Smith College and University of Rochester Medical School, and went on to direct pediatric programs at both New York Univer
 JACOBI-Elaine. Of New York City, on Saturday, June 16, 2001, age 82. Wide of the late Sidney Jacobi. Devoted mother of Dana Jacobi. Beauty was her life. Sitting at Elaine's home, June 21 and 22, after 2 PM.       
 SLOAN-Madeline D. (''Dolores''). Of Pelham, NY on June 14. Born in Brooklyn on June 16, 1925, she married Edward P. Sloan (d. 1970) in 1949 and lovingly raised their children, Edward, Peter, Pamela and Laura in St. Catherine of Genoa RC parish. She moved to Pelham in 1989 where, as ''Grammy
 STERN-Frances Shapiro (nee Messinger). 84, died on June 19 at her home. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Julius R. Shapiro and the late Irving Stern. Loving mother of Albert, Steven and Susan Shapiro. Adored grandmother of Julia, Daniel, Rebecca, Sara and Ethan. Loving mother-in-law of Ruth Ann
 TANSER-Howard. On June 17, 2001. Beloved son of the late Harry and Ethel Tanser. Loving brother of Julie Keye and her husband Chip. Dear uncle of Elizabeth. Cherished stepson of Corinne Tanser. Services Friday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Adele Dellenbaugh Hofmann, a pediatrician who helped tailor medical science to the needs of teenagers, died on Friday at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 74 and lived in nearby Laguna Beach. The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said. A practitioner o
 BERNSTEIN-Charlotte Z. Of Elmwood Park, N.J., died on June 20 at the age of 71 after a long illness. She was retired from Ramapo College of N.J. where she worked for many years as an administrator in the Human Resources division. She is survived by her loving husband, Jules, her daughters E
 CALDWELL-Carol A., 49. Of Philadelphia, PA, formerly of New York City passed away peacefully at her home on June 15, 2001. A graduate of Chestnut Hill College, Chestnut Hill, PA, she was currently Assistant to the Director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art and previously was affiliated with
 CONNELL-JoAnn Dallas. Died after a courageous battle with breast cancer on June 18 at Kendal in Kennett Square, PA. She is survived by five children, Thomas Hilbert, Jefferson Joseph, Ann Dallas Clarke, Nancy Day Connell, Abigail Sanford Connell and nine grandchildren. JoAnn lived in Prince
 EXSTEIN-Blanche B. On June 19, 2001. Beloved wife of Louis. Loving mother of Michael and Lida, and Ted and Patti, adored grandmother of Jeremy, Adam, Isabel, Max and Benjamin. Dear sister of Richard Bloch. Services Thursday, June 21, 10:30 AM at Temple Emanu'El, 5th Avenue at 56th St. Donat
 KLEIMAN-Mollie. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed member Zelda Goldsmith and extends to her and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 STERN-Frances Shapiro (nee Messinger). 84, died on June 19 at her home. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Julius R. Shapiro and the late Irving Stern. Loving mother of Albert, Steven and Susan Shapiro. Adored grandmother of Julia, Daniel, Rebecca, Sara and Ethan. Loving mother-in-law of Ruth Ann
 WILSON-Cynthia, 48. Of Manhattan, accomplished singer, on June 17, 2001. Majoring in music and minoring in writing at Sarah Lawrence while also studying at Juilliard, she got her BA degree, was a runner-up at The NYC Division of Miss America Competition, and went on to appear in musicals on
 FERRY-Carol Bernstein. Manhattanville College and the Connie Hogarth Center for Social Action mourn the passing of Carol Ferry, activist and philanthropist for peace and social justice. We will sorely miss her intelligence, passion and courage.       
 FEUERSTEIN-Ruth S., 97. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY and Hallandale, FL, died on June 21, in Somerset, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Murray M, Mrs. Feuerstein was a 6th grade elementary school teacher in the NYC School system for 35 years. A dedicated life member of Hadassah, she received a Nati
 FLESHNER-Gallie. Age 87. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Loving mother of Lenore Braverman and her husband Ernest and Joyce Kaplan and her husband Melvin. Dearest Grandma of Randi Manoleas and her late husband Billy, Peter Braverman, Stacie Magnus and her husband Steven, Lisa Shapiro and Je
 MALLON-Wanda. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved & devoted secretary for over 40 years, Wanda Mallon. We extend our deepest condolences to her children. A memorial service will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Sunday, July 1, 2001 at 1 PM. Rabbi M
 MILNER-Jean. Died at her home at age 91 shortly following the passing of her beloved husband, Jimmy. Beloved mother of Mary Wittner and Robert Milner and mother-law of Saralee Milner and Andrew Wittner. Cherished grandmother of Diane Wittner and Jon Acheson, Pamela and Doug D'Alexander, and
 REISFELD-Joan H. Of Marco Island, FL, passed away on June 20th, 2001. Born in Astoria, Queens to Estelle and William Streim, Joan was a graduate of New York University. She was a wonderful wife for 54 years to Mort, a caring and loving mother to her children, Rona and Donald, & grandmother 
 STROFF-Israel. On June 21, 2001. Longtime dearest companion of Joan Bernstein. Loving father of Reggie Waldren and her husband Peter. Services today at 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Evalyn A. Clark, a retired Vassar College history professor who was an early member and former president of the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, died on Sunday in Beacon, N.Y. She was 98 and lived in Poughkeepsie. Dr. Clark was on Vassar's faculty from 1939 to 1968, when sh
 Nananne Porcher, a theater lighting designer and theater design consultant, died on Sunday. She was 78 and lived in West Tisbury, Mass. The cause was cancer, said Marion  Kinsella, her companion. Ms. Porcher was best known for her work in dance. She was the stage manager and
 AMES-Margaret. On June 22, in Elizabethtown, NY. A classics scholar and author who taught at Riverdale Country School and Hunter College, she is survived by husband Russell of Westport, New York, children David Foley of San Francisco and Barbara Foley of East Orange, NJ, and three grandchil
 DICKER-Eileen. June 22, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Chaplain Herman Dicker. Loving mother of Anna & Eli. Adoring grandmother of Shelley and Michael (Edelstein) and Sarah and Jeremy (Dicker). Cherished aunt, sister-in-law, mother-in-law & cousin. Her quiet, steady strength guided and nurt
 FEIN-Doris. On June 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Peter. Cherished grandmother of Maggie and Jake. Devoted aunt of Gloria and April. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 DENERSTEIN-Loretta. Not a day goes by that she is not missed by her children and grandchildren. Forever loved, Susan and Harris       
 Erin O'Reilly, a New York City police sergeant who helped orchestrate the downfall of two entrenched Harlem drug gangs by using a new legal approach, died last Sunday at a Long Island hospital. She was 41 and lived in North Babylon, N.Y. The Suffolk County medical examiner's office 
 AMES-Margaret. On June 22, in Elizabethtown, NY. A classics scholar and author who taught at Riverdale Country School and Hunter College, she is survived by husband Russell of Westport, New York, children David Foley of San Francisco and Barbara Foley of East Orange, NJ, and three grandchil
 BARUCHIN-Sula. On June 23, 2001, after a 16 year illness. Survived by her husband Fred and daughters Aliyah and Celia. Shiva begins Sunday, June 24, 11 Tudor Rd, Hicksville, NY. Donations may be made to the Long Island Alzheimer's Foundation, Port Washington, NY, or the Gurwin Foundation, C
 DICKER-Eileen. June 22, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Chaplain Herman Dicker. Loving mother of Anna & Eli. Adoring grandmother of Shelley and Michael (Edelstein) and Sarah and Jeremy (Dicker). Cherished aunt, sister-in-law, mother-in-law & cousin. Her quiet, steady strength guided and nurt
 FEIN-Doris. On June 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Peter. Cherished grandmother of Maggie and Jake. Devoted aunt of Gloria and April. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FORD-Teresa. Age 58, died June 5. Her survivors include husband Stanley Gray, daughter Kimberly (Ford) Powell, stepdaughters Pat Saunders and Evelyn Gray, granddaughter Kaihla Janais Powell, and sister Patricia Harris.       
 GOLDMAN-Susan Miriam. Born January 9, 1964, NYC, daughter of Charles Lewis Goldman and Deana Marilyn Sachs, sister of Katherine Goldman, died April 26, 2001, at the age of 37. She was raised in Suffern, NY, a graduate of the Hotchkiss School, 1982, Bennington College, 1986, Hunter College, 
 HUGHES-Irene Marie. Born June 3, 1955. Died June 8, 2001. Survived by her mother, Sarah Hughes, her sister, Jane Keesler, and two nieces. May she rest in peace.       
 JARVIS-Jacqueline McKinnon. At Lenox Hill Hospital on June 21, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late John and Jessie (Jaye) Jarvis Donnelly of Miller Place, and cherished sister of James Donnelly of Saratoga, Maureen Sideris of Manhattan, and Marion Latham of Hartsdale and their families. She 
 MANSFIELD-Pauline. On June 17, in her 94th year. Devoted mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, mother-in-law and sister.       
 McGRATH-Marion E. (Mary Elizabeth) of Rye, New York, on June 23, 2001 at the age of 94. Devoted wife of the late Hugh A. McGrath; loving mother of John W. McGrath of New York City, Eileen T. Baynes of Atlanta, GA, Hugh A. McGrath, Jr., M.D. of Metarie, LA, Mary Elizabeth Hutcoe of Mahopac, 
 NEIMETH-Catherine. On June 21, 2001 at the age of 99. In her home in Woodmere, Long Island. Devoted wife of the late Edward. Beloved mother of Richard and the late Donald. Loving mother-inlaw of Peggy. Grandmother of Debbie, Pamela, Amy and Lisa. Great-grandmother of ten beautiful children.
 O'CONNOR-Carroll. We offer heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board member Nancy F. O'Connor on the death of her husband, Carroll O'Connor, good friend of Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian. W. Richard West, Director Charles Diker, Chair, GGHC Valerie Diker, Chair, GGHC J
 SPEZIALI-Edith. Died Thursday, June 14, at Beth Israel Hospital. She was 86. Born in Evanston, Illinois, she was a longtime New Yorker, living for a short time in Key West, Florida where she worked at the legendary Trade Winds. As a youth Edith received a full scholarship to the Art Student
 STEIN-Alice C. Died peacefully June 20th, 2001, following a long period of diminished health. She is fondly remembered as the proprietor of Gordon's Book Store on 55th St in the St. Regis Hotel, a mecca for those interested in politics and the arts, as well as for automobile, train and hist
 BARUCHIN-Sula. On June 23, 2001, after a 16 year illness. Survived by her husband Fred and daughters Aliyah and Celia. Shiva begins Sunday, June 24, 11 Tudor Rd, Hicksville, NY. Donations may be made to the Long Island Alzheimer's Foundation, Port Washington, NY, or the Gurwin Foundation, C
 LOUD-Rosalie Keith Kerr. Rosalie Keith Kerr Loud, known to her family and friends as Kiki, died peacefully June 10, 2001, in Paris, France while vacationing with her husband. Born in New York City, Kiki was the beloved wife of Theodore Ewald Loud, formerly of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, and Ne
 NEIMETH-Catherine. On June 21, 2001 at the age of 99. In her home in Woodmere, Long Island. Devoted wife of the late Edward. Beloved mother of Richard and the late Donald. Loving mother-inlaw of Peggy. Grandmother of Debbie, Pamela, Amy and Lisa. Great-grandmother of ten beautiful children.
 WEISS-Cetalie Breger. Died peacefully at home on June 24, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Marcel. Loving mother of Stephen and Robert. Devoted grandmother of Chip, Cindy, Andrew, Amy, Jocelyn, Megan, Caleb, Gavin, Blair, Laurie, Jennie, Michael, Kenny. Loving greatgrandmother of 
 Yvonne Dionne, a member of the first recorded set of quintuplets to survive more than a few days, died on Saturday morning in a Montreal hospital. She was 67. She died of cancer, said Carlo Tarini, a family spokesman. When they were born in 1934 to an already large, poor far
 AXEL-Elaine. Beloved wife of Kermit Axel; loving mother of Jane Bobrick, Blair Axel and Carol Axel; adored sister of Muriel Poliakoff and Louise Miller; motherin-law to Hon. Edward Bobrick, Elisabeth Axel & Joseph Weiner; devoted grandmother of Benjamin, Rachel, Nathaniel, Matthew, Sara, Ke
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 BOTT-Wendy Luckett, 38. Writer and filmmaker died June 12, 2001 in Los Angeles. Born in Alexandria, Virginia, raised in the Chicago area, at an early age Wendy developed an interest in comedy and filmmaking. Immediately after graduating from the Boston University School of Film and Communic
 GOLDSTEIN-Naomi Ruth (nee Ginsburg). Survived by husband, Simeon H.F. Goldstein; children Debbie (Jay) Stepelman, Seth (Jill) Goldstein and Jonathan (Mona) Goldstein and nine grandchildren. Past president, Ramat Gan (Bess Eisenstein) Chapter Emunah Women. Funeral at Sinai Chapel, 162-05 Hor
 LOEB-Johanna. On June 24, 2001. Loving sister of Paul, Ernest and the late Claire Kay. Dear aunt of Susan, Diane, Jonathan, David and William, and cousin of Edward Lehman. Services on Tuesday, 9:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LOEB - Johanna. Congregati
 MESSINA-Martina Diane. Born on March 23, 1936 in Brooklyn, NY to Frank Martin Messina and Alice Pennner Messina. Martina Diane Messina died very peacefully on June 23rd at 6:10 AM, surrounded by her family and the love of her friends. There will me a Mass at St. Theresa's Parish, Hyde Park,
 MOREHOUSE-Barbara. On Sunday, June 24, at age 58, of cancer. Born on March 31, 1943, the daughter of Murray and Elizabeth Sinclaire in Short Hills, NJ, she was a resident of New York City since 1970. She graduated with honors from Fordham University, Lincoln Center. She is survived by her h
 SFORZA-Dorothy W. On June 24, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Alfred T. Sforza. Loving mother Jonne W. Sevekow and her husband Fred. Cherished grandmother of Samantha and Fred III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Tuesday and Wednesday, 3-5 and 7-9PM. F
 WEISS-Cetalie. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Ken Simon, President       
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 McKINNEY-Robert Moody. Ambassador McKinney was the stepfather of our beloved friend and member of Hunter/Brookdale's Board of Overseers, Edmee deM. Firth, and was a loyal supporter of our work. Our hearts go out to Edmee, her children and all of the Ambassador's family. The Board of Oversee
 MENAKER-Olga San Giuliano. On June 25, 2001. ASID, interior designer to celebrity homes. Her work has appeared in Architectural Digest among other magazines. She has attended the Harvard School of Design and taught at the New York School of Design. Together with a colleague, she wrote a cha
 RYAN-Rebecca Atkinson. June 24, 2001 at the age of 93. Beloved wife of the late James F. Ryan. Loving sister of Catherine E. Lynham and Ruth M. Smyth. Devoted aunt and great aunt. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, July 10th, 11AM in the Chapel of the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th 
 SFORZA-Dorothy W. On June 24, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Alfred T. Sforza. Loving mother Jonne W. Sevekow and her husband Fred. Cherished grandmother of Samantha and Fred III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Tuesday and Wednesday, 3-5 and 7-9PM. F
 TANNER-Dorelle. The Officers and Directors of The Garden Club of America express deep sorrow on the death of their former President, Mrs. Frederick C. Tanner, and extend deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Dorelle Tanner served The Garden Club with great distinction and extraordinar
 TIERS-Margaret. Died April 19, 2001 of natural causes. She was born in Paris, France, January 16, 1912. Her parents were Cornelius Tiers of Paris, and Margaret Drumm Tiers, of Montreal. Mrs. Herbert was married to E.N. Potter of N.Y. She leaves son, Allan Robbins Potter, and wife Norma, of 
 WYKER-Lynn B. Peacefully on June 25, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving sister of Karen Stark and the late Augusta Berin, Roxanne Kamenstein, William Berke and Harold Berke. Adored and missed by her many nieces, nephews and godchildren, but forgotten by no one who knew and loved 
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 GORDON-Marion Siner, on June 23, 2001, age 93, Canton, MA. Predeceased by husband, Emanuel Siner in 1957 and husband, Emanuel Gordon in 1990. Survived by sister, Lucille Sunshine of Queens, NY, son, Joel L. Siner of Cambridge, MA, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Past-Presi
 GUNNING-Elizabeth Sand, 44. Beloved wife of Kenneth Gunning of Manhattan, died June 26th, 2001 at home after a courageous battle with advanced ovarian cancer. Born in Killeen, TX, she lived in NJ and CT. before moving to NYC 22 years ago. She graduated from St. Leo College (FL) with a degre
 HANEMAN-Elizabeth B. (Breed). Died June 26, 2001 at the age of 79. She is survived by a daughter Elizabeth Stinchcomb of Manhattan and two granddaughters Nicole P. Haneman of Manhattan & Patricia H. Cox of Larchmont, New York; a son William F. Haneman is deceased. Services are to be held in
 PERLMAN-Nancy Denton. On June 25th, 2001 in the comfort of the home in which she grew up. She shined a special light on everyone and all those who knew her were touched by her special warmth. Keep the warmth with you for it is the essence of Nancy and her gift to those she leaves behind. A 
 SULLIVAN-Kathleen A. With heavy hearts, the Yale Law School Community mourns the passing, on June 27th, of Kathleen A. Sullivan, Clinical Professor of Law at Yale, our colleague, teacher, mentor and friend. Her compassion for others, her warmth and her dignity will be sorely missed by all w
 WELCH-Adelaide Agatha (nee Stapleton), born in Manhattan March 8, 1923, age 78, a creative artist, beloved wife, mother, sister, and mother-in-law and friend. An active member of St. Pascal Baylon Church in St. Albans, Queens, she was a member of the Rosary Society & is much loved & missed.
 ASOKA-Roy, MS, CNM, FACNM, affectionately called Koko, passed away peacefully in Valhalla, NY on June 22. She was born in India, educated in India, England and the USA, & had an interesting & distinguished career in her much loved midwifery profession. She started her midwifery career in In
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 HANEMAN-Elizabeth B. (Breed). Died June 26, 2001 at the age of 79. She is survived by a daughter Elizabeth Stinchcomb of Manhattan and two granddaughters Nicole P. Haneman of Manhattan & Patricia H. Cox of Larchmont, New York; a son William F. Haneman is deceased. Services are to be held Fr
 HUGHES-Marian Bellamy, age 89 of Hudson, Ohio. Beloved wife of the late Lloyd F. Hughes, loving mother of Charles R. Hughes, and Susan H. Barker, dear grandmother of Geoff L. Hughes, Bradley T. Hughes, Lynn B. Ogden and the late Sarah H. Ogden. Great-grandmother of Cammie Ogden-Fung, Emilie
 PERLMAN-Nancy Denton. On June 25th, 2001 in the comfort of the home in which she grew up. She shined a special light on everyone and all those who knew her were touched by her special warmth. Keep the warmth with you for it is the essence of Nancy and her gift to those she leaves behind. A 
 ROY-Asoka. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend Asoka Roy, who lovingly served as Director of Midwifery at Beth Israel from 1968 to 1983. Our sympathy is extended to
 Modjadji V, the last of a line of rain queens and the only woman who was a tribal ruler in modern-day southern Africa, died on Thursday in a clinic in Petersburg, South Africa. She was 64. Although modern meteorology and politics have robbed the mysterious Modjadjis of the awe that 
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 MOORE-Diane M. June 27, 2001. Retired Assistant Principal with the City of New York's Pregnant Teenagers Program. Loved and cherised by her family. Survived by her mother Mae Weech, children Lisa, Allyson and Eric and grandchildren Ciara, Cristina, Brandon and Jalen. Services today 11am, Ch
 ROY-Asoka, MS, CNM, FACNM, affectionately called Koko, passed away peacefully in Valhalla, NY on June 22. She was born in India, educated in India, England and the USA, & had an interesting & distinguished career in her much loved midwifery profession. She started her midwifery career in In
 SALEE-Ben L. On June 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna until her death; father to Adrian; grandfather to Linda, Deborah and Steven; great-grandfather to Sam and Joe; loving parent to Alice, Mike and Hans. Respected lawyer and judge in Huntington, LI.       
