 BERNARD-Norma. Beloved wife of the late Burton, cherished mother of Harold (Bonnie), Cathy and Mitchell (Adrienne), devoted sister of Fred Ebb and the late Estelle Yavers, loving grandmother of Nicole, Molly, Alex, Bradley, Jake, Amanda and Hannah. Her life was rich, fulfilled and complete.
 GUTHMAN-Pat. The Art & Antique Dealers League of America sadly announces that its member, Pat Guthman (75), died Monday, January 28, at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, after a long illness. A noted antiques dealer, lecturer and author on the art of hearth cooking, Pat was a founder of 
 MASIUS-Barbara A. Age 79, on January 30, 2002. Predeceased by her husband, William, December 23, 2001. Survived by her beloved daughter, Carol Zuckerman, sonin-law, Stuart Zuckerman, and granddaughter, Kate Zuckerman. Also survived by son, John, and grandchildren, Hannah, Max and Sam of Los
 McCARTHY-Catherine T. (nee Thellusson), 74, of Sea Girt, N.J. (formerly of New York City) on January 30, 2002. Beloved wife of Richard F. McCarthy. Dear mother of seven: Mary Catherine McCarthy Spellman, Rosemary, Richard, John, Madeleine Gourlie, Nadine and Nicholas; six grandchildren: Mat
 MORATH-Inge. The entire Leica community mourns the loss of Inge Morath who, for more than a half century, was one of the brightest stars in the constellation of the world's master photographers. Her brilliant spirit will forever remain reflected in her timeless images. Inge was a very speci
 MYERS-Norma, 81, on January 30, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Devoted mother of Ronald and Lance. Caring mother-in-law of Jill. Adored grandmother of Danielle and Hillary. Dear sister of Gerald, Alvin and the late Stanley. She will be deeply missed. Services Friday, February 1, 1 P
 ROSENBERG-Doris L., 83. Died on January 29, 2002 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Paul F. Lowinger of Vienna, Austria & Claire Lowinger of Jacksonville, Florida. Wife of the late Irwin H. Rosenberg, of New York. A passionate advocate of the rights of children and the
 STOLLER-Jeanne Hart. Passed away in her sleep January 31, at age 95. Noted fashion director of Altman, Stoller, Weiss Advertising. Beloved wife of the late Max Stoller. Loved dearly by her daughter Mara Kurtz, granddaughter Sasha, son-in-law John, and niece Dolores. Her exceptional style an
 TABORI-Suzanne S., 74. Of Manhattan, nee Sarah Dajch in Paris, France, died yesterday of cancer, surrounded by her family at her daughter's home in Los Angeles. Mrs. Tabori was an educator in the New York City Board of Education Auxiliary Services for High Schools, where she taught and deve
 Hildegard Knef, the actress whose career emerged from the dark realism of German filmmaking that followed Hitler's defeat and then grew to encompass Broadway, recordings and a best-selling memoir, died yesterday in Berlin. She was 76. Ms. Knef, whose name was often anglicized as Nef
 BROWAR-Elinor. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 FLYNN-Elizabeth. On January 31, 2002, in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Judge John Flynn. Loving mother of Frederick, John, Elizabeth, & Valentina Abrahams. She is also survived by ten grand and nine great-grandchildren. Reposing at Fives Smithtown Funeral Home, 31 Landing Ave., Sm
 HELPERN-Leona. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawayne Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Leona Helpern. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Stuart Herz, President       
 MORATH-Inge. The entire Leica community mourns the loss of Inge Morath who, for more than a half century, was one of the brightest stars in the constellation of the world's master photographers. Her brilliant spirit will forever remain reflected in her timeless images. Inge was a very speci
 ROSENBERG-Doris L., 83. Died on January 29, 2002 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Paul F. Lowinger of Vienna, Austria & Claire Lowinger of Jacksonville, Florida. Wife of the late Irwin H. Rosenberg, of New York. A passionate advocate of the rights of children and the
 WINANS-Walter. We grieve with our beloved friend, Eliza Rossman, and her family on the passing of Eliza's father. Nora, Margaret, Danylle and Rose       
 BENNER-Dorothy Booth. Left this world on January 26, 2002 from complications following hip surgery at the age of 84. She was the beloved wife, for 60 years, to G. Willard Benner who survives her. She also leaves her nephew Robert W. Booth, Jr. and grand niece and nephew, Kimberly Booth and 
 BERMAK-Marcus, Dr. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Elaine Bermak, upon the loss of her beloved husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 BERNARD-Norma. Beloved wife of the late Burton, cherished mother of Harold (Bonnie), Cathy and Mitchell (Adrienne), devoted sister of Fred Ebb and the late Estelle Yavers, loving grandmother of Nicole, Molly, Alex, Bradley, Jake, Amanda and Hannah. Her life was rich, fulfilled and complete.
 BONGIORNO-Dyan. The Kleinfeld Bridal Salon is so deeply saddened at the sudden death of Dyan Bongiorno, who was every bride's favorite consultant and became every bride's best friend. We will miss her energy, smile, thoughtfulness and fun loving approach to work and to life. Her Friends at 
 CAMAC-Gussie. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the passing of Gussie Camac, beloved sister of our Chairman, Bernard Goldberg. For 16 years Gussie graced the Hebrew Home with her warmth and charm. She was part of the f
 ELLENBERG-Jessica. Goodbye to a great sister. May she rest in peace. Estelle and brother-in-law Sam       
 FAIR-Mary Katherine. Of Exeter, NH, on January 7th, formerly of Shushan, NY, and New York, NY. Beloved mother of the late Charles M. Fair III, Ellen B. Fair of New York, NY, Katherine H. Fair of Exeter, NH. Also survived by former husband, Charles M. Fair, Jr. Memorial service to be held Ju
 FREEMAN-Pauline Allen. On January 29, 2002. With great sorrow, I announce the death of my wife of 67 years-friend, companion and associate-a gifted woman who shunned recognition. Survived by her loyal sons David and Stephen, her seven grandchildren and her grieving husband, Mark Freeman.   
 GERAMI-Mohtaram. Died on Jan. 30, 2002 in peace at her home. She was a pioneer in infectious disease and obstetrics medicine for her generation & dearly loved mother of Khaschayar (Nik), Zohreh and Kouros Nainzadeh, all of whom are physicians. Beloved motherin-law of Nahid K. Nainzadeh, M.D
 HURWITZ - Frances ''Pimmy'' (nee Rudnick). Of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Rego Park, NY, born in Middle Village, NY. Beloved wife of the late Louis Joshua Hurwitz, she was the cherished and cherishing mother of Lynn and Paul Koch of Tenafly, NJ, and Susan and Harlan Hurwitz of River Edge, NJ,
 JARECKY-Lillian. The residents of 1435 Lexington Ave mourn the loss of their longtime neighbor. We will miss her sharp humor and offer condolences to her family.       
 JORDAN-Cathleen G. On January 31, 2002. Beloved wife of James N. Jordan. Loving daughter of the late Stanley and Catherine Gunn. Dear sister of Stanley Terence (Bernie) Gunn. Adored aunt of Stanley, Gramon and Ferrill. Memorial service Monday, February 4, at 4 PM, at Christ and St. Stephen'
 LEWENZ-Dorothy. December 9, 1918, Berlin, Germany, to January 31, 2002, NY. Arrived NY from Hitler's Germany on her 20th birthday in 1938. 1945-1952 joined U.S. troops in occupied Germany as intelligence analyst, then established Eligibility-Appeals Section of U.S. DP Commission. Selected f
 MASIUS-Barbara A. Age 79, on January 30, 2002. Predeceased by her husband, William, December 23, 2001. Survived by her beloved daughter, Carol Zuckerman, sonin-law, Stuart Zuckerman, and granddaughter, Kate Zuckerman. Also survived by son, John, and grandchildren, Hannah, Max and Sam of Los
 MATISON-Edith Green. January 20th, 2002, in Acapulco, Mexico. Beloved mother of Esteban and cherished friend of the Ann and Joe Mullins family. Born 1909 in NYC, married Michael Jaffe and later photographer Leo Matiz. Friend to many artists, Edith opened the first art gallery in Acapulco. R
 QUILTER-Anne (nee Kalikow). Has died January 26, 2002 at the age of 95. A native New Yorker and lover of the fine arts, she spent her summers traveling in Europe. Her dynamic spirit will be missed by her two daughters Joan & Susan, her seven grandchidren and six great-grandchildren.       
 RHODD-CUMMINGS-Pauline (Assemblywoman) The entire family of Peninsula Hospital Center is saddened by the passing of Assemblywoman Pauline RhoddCummings, honored Assemblymember. Sincere condolences are extended to her entire family. Joel A. Miele Sr., P.E., Chairman, Board of Directors Rober
 ROSENBERG-Doris L., 83. Died on January 29, 2002 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Paul F. Lowinger of Vienna, Austria & Claire Lowinger of Jacksonville, Florida. Wife of the late Irwin H. Rosenberg, of New York. A passionate advocate of the rights of children and the
 SILVER-Fannie. On February 1, 2002. Nearly 100 years of sharing her love for life with her family. Beloved wife of the late Nathan and mother of the late Ruth and Leonard. Survived by her son Joel and his wife Esther, adoring grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren.
 SPEARE-Elizabeth Burnett, 94, died November 30, 2001, Medford, NJ. For over 20 years, she was Executive Secretary of NYC-Bronx Welfare Councils. She was a graduate of Mt. Holyoke College and held two Master's degrees from Columbia University. She is survived by four nephews and nieces. Priv
 WEISMAN-Maxine. On January 28th, 2002, in San Rafael, CA. Loving mother of Janet and Herb Millman, Carol & Tom Ollendorff and the late Barbara Weiner. Adored grandmother of Albert, Deborah, Danielle, Beth, Scott and Mark. Cherished great grandmother of Marni, Carly, Jack, Adam and Samuel. S
 Jean Patchett, a leading fashion model of the 1950's whose face was one of the signatures of a highly glamorous era, died on Jan. 22 at her home in La Quinta, Calif. She was 75. The cause was emphysema, her husband, Louis Auer, said. In a photograph in profile by Erwin Blume
 BERNAL-Olga. Died in Cazoul Les Beziers, France, Thursday, January 24, 2002. Born in Czechoslovakia in 1929, deported to Auschwitz at the age of 14, she was the soul survivor of her family. After the war, she received her doctorate in French Literature at Columbia University and subsequentl
 BERNSTEIN-Martha. An extraordinary life has ended, nearly a century after it began, and we are poorer for it. As matriarch of the Bernstein clan, she had the steely resolve to encourage and support her sons as they founded Sanford C. Bernstein and Co., and a tender touch to spread her love 
 CAMAC-Gussie. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the passing of Gussie Camac, beloved sister of our Chairman, Bernard Goldberg. For 16 years Gussie graced the Hebrew Home with her warmth and charm. She was part of the f
 COHEN-Sylvia K. On February 2, 2002, passed away in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Adored mother of Linda and Joel Fields, and Eleanor. Devoted grandmother of Jonathan James and Robert Keith. Cherished aunt of Marguerite Lee. She is finally with her ''Jimmy.'' Services Tue
 COLEMAN-Enid Anderson. Formerly of Bedford Village, NY, died peacefully Friday, February 1, at the age of 92. She was a dedicated, devoted and determined wife and mother: a discerning woman of searing intellect, who also made the best apple pie in the world. She lived through and for her fa
 FARRELL-Marie O'Neill. Of Danbury, CT, formerly of Eastchester, NY, died February 2, 2002. She was 87. Born July 2, 1914, in New York, NY, to William and Julia O'Neill. Loving mother of Vincent Farrell, Jr. of Katonah and Patricia Farrell Savage of Washington, CT. Beloved grandmother of fiv
 MANDEL-Florence. Wife of Joseph C. Mandel, passed away Saturday, February 2, 2002. Until recent years when Alzheimers disease severly limited her activities, Florence participated with her husband in numerous philanthropies focused primarily in Cleveland, Florida and Israel. She was particu
 ROSEN-Natalie. Age 72, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, on February 2, 2002. Survived by her husband of fifty years Philip, sons Dr. Joseph Rosen of Brattleboro, VT, Daniel Rosen of Wayne, NJ, Mark Rosen of Franklin Lakes, NJ; brothers Murray and Leo Simpson of West Hempstead, NY and Seymour Simpson 
 SHAPIRA-Mary, 91. Died January 24, 2002. Manhattan resident, born in Meadowlands, PA. Beloved sister of Sylvia Spielberg and the late Sara Shapira, Esther Givelber, & Larry Shapira. Devoted aunt of Allan Spielberg and the late Eleanor Spielberg Feldman, Jack Shapira and Skippy Baumoel. Toot
 ABRAMS-Sylvia. Died February 4, 2002 at the age of 89. Beloved wife of Edward. Adoring mother of Howard and Richard. Grandmother of Evan. May she rest in peace. The family will be sitting Saturday, February 9th, 12-6PM, at 201 East 79th Street, Apt 2G, New York City. 212-861-0080.       
 ANTKIES-Helen. The Congregation of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, records with sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We express our sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President       
 BERNSTEIN-Martha. An extraordinary life has ended, nearly a century after it began, and we are poorer for it. As matriarch of the Bernstein clan, she had the steely resolve to encourage and support her sons as they founded Sanford C. Bernstein and Co., and a tender touch to spread her love 
 DeBARBIERI-Marie T. Of Pearl River, N.Y. and Mt. Chase, Maine, died on February 2, 2002. A member of the mathematics Department at the Pearl River High School for nearly four decades. Her love and care is a legacy that will remain with young people, faculty, staff, and all who knew her. A F
 HAAS-Edith. On February 4, 2002 in her ninety-eighth year. Wife of the late Morris, beloved mother of Barbara and her husband Barry Aronowsky, cherished grandmother of Marcy and Mario Messina, Eric and Marc Aronowsky, and beloved Nana to many.       
 IRWIN-Jane Darlington. February 2, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Major Charles J. Irwin. Loving and devoted mother of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandmother of Carter, Robert and Roger. A graduate of Chapin School Class of 1938, Vassar College Class of 1942, and later a 
 KLAPPER-Blanche. Beloved wife and best friend of Marvin Klapper, her loving husband for 58 years. Born on September 20, 1923, died February 4, 2002 in South Nassau Hospital after a short illness. Prior to her retirement in December, 1992, she had been a Secretary to the Principal of South S
 LEEDS-Edith. Beloved wife of Julian, mother of Wini and Peter, grandmother of Jesse, Maggie and Alex. Passed away Sunday, February 3rd in Southbury, CT. May she rest in peace.       
 LOEB-Thelma. Suddenly Jan. 20, in Boca Raton. Formerly of Borough Park, Brooklyn. Mourned by her loving family, many friends.       
 MANDEL - Florence. American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourns the passing of Florence Mandel, wife of Joseph Mandel. Through the Mandel Foundation many programs at the University have benefited from their generosity. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Joseph, daug
 PLOTKIN-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Helen Plotkin, a cherished friend who expressed an admirable commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. Mrs. Plotkin's legacy lives on in the continuing efforts and exceptio
 SCHWARTZ-Pauline (Bobby) in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Ben. Devoted mother of Martin and Diana Blender, Judith and Murray Braunstein. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. A lady of great style who loved her family, asked nothing for herself and derived great pleasure in
 SELTZER-Rose. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Susan Seltzer upon the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 WEISS-LIPKA-Sara. Of Tamarac, Florida, formerly of Sea Gate Harbor, New York. Died February 2, 2002. A woman who was passionately devoted to her family. Loving wife to her husband Morris Lipka and her deceased husband Max Weiss. Mother to Jeffrey Weiss & Louise Kornfeld. Motherin-law to Ste
 Annalee Whitmore Fadiman, a screenwriter, World War II correspondent and the author, with Theodore H. White, of the best seller ''Thunder Out of China,'' died yesterday in Captiva, Fla. She was 85. Mrs. Fadiman, who as a member of the Hemlock Society supported a right to suicide, to
 CASSELL-Eve. Age 92 on February 4, 2002. Adored by all her family. Wife of the late Irwin Cassell. Sister of the late Rose (Louis) Magram, Harry (Sylvia) Miller and Benjamin S. (Ann) Miller. Aunt of Saul Magram and the late Herbert Magram, Kathlyn Megram, William (Gloria) Miller, the late A
 CROSBY-Amanda T. On February 4th, 2002, of New York City, formerly of Summit, NJ, daughter of John and Betsy Crosby of Summit, NJ, sister of Jay Crosby of Brooklyn, NY. A Memorial Service will be held on Saturday, February 9, 2002 at 3 PM at the Kent Place School Field House, Summit, NJ. Pl
 DeBARBIERI-Marie T. Of Pearl River, N.Y. and Mt. Chase, Maine, died on February 2, 2002. A member of the mathematics Department at the Pearl River High School for nearly four decades. Her love and care is a legacy that will remain with young people, faculty, staff, and all who knew her. A F
 IRWIN-Jane Darlington. February 2, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Major Charles J. Irwin. Loving and devoted mother of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandmother of Carter, Robert and Roger. A graduate of Chapin School Class of 1938, Vassar College Class of 1942, and later a 
 SCOTT-Dorothy Sullivan. Of New York City died February 5, 2002, at age 96. Widow of S. Lytton Scott and daughter of Dr. Eugene C. Sullivan, former Chairman and President of the Corning Glass Works. She attended Antioch College where she was the first woman editor of the student newspaper. L
 WEISS-Yetta. Age 92, formerly of New Rochelle, on February 5, 2002, in Fairfield, CT, widow of Lewis, predeceased by son, Stephen. Survived by her son Charles Weiss and wife Lynne of Westport, CT; daughter-in-law Phyllis Weiss of Nanuet, NY; grandchildren Karen Abrams and Larry Weiss, and g
 BERNSTEIN-Stella, 97. Hollywood, FL. Formerly of West Hartford, on February 5, 2002. An extraordinary life has ended and we are all poorer for it. Devoted wife of the late Sidney, adored mother of Dick and Sonny, Mark & Arlene, David and Patty; grandchildren Lori, Robert, Jeffrey, Michael, 
 BORGHESE-Marchella, Princess. Dutchess of Bomarzo, creator of a luxury cosmetics line by the same name, died peacefully on January 19, 2002 in Montreux. Switzerland. She was buried after a private funeral in the Borghese family chapel in the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. Born in
 GERLA-Joyce Lenore Feiman. On February 5, 2002. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Steven and Juliet, Bonnie and Bernard and Pamela. Cherished grandmother of Gabrielle, Gregory and Michelle. Loving sister of Richard and Pat Feiman and Donald and Len Feiman. Services Friday 11am at '
 GOLDBERG-Rose. Wife of the late David J. Goldberg. Died February 2, 2002 in Miami Beach, FL. She was a founder of Mount Sinai Hospital, a Life Member of Amit Women, Hadassah, Technion and Jewish National Fund, Vice President of the Bialystoker Home for the Aged in New York and a Life Member
 LLANO-Margaret (nee Thompson). Widow of Adolfo Llano and daughter of the late Dr. Arthur W. and Clara (nee Coard) Thompson. Died January 31 in Southbury, CT. Mrs. Llano was born in Flushing, NY. She graduated from PS 20 Elementary School in Flushing at age 11 and from Flushing H.S. at age 1
 PROSKE-Beatrice Gilman. Died February 2, at the age of 102. She was curator of sculpture at The Hispanic Society of America in New York City for 53 years and an honorary trustee at Brookgreen Gardens in South Carolina. Memorial contributions may be sent to The Hispanic Society of America, 6
 SALZ-Frances (Merklein), 75, of Marstons Mills. Died February 6 at her home. Wife of Jay S. Salz of Marstons Mills; mother of Richard E. Salz of Georgetown, MA, Wendy Salz Johnston of Santa Monica, CA and Jill Salz Wolf of New York, NY; sister of Frank N. Merklein of West Palm Beach, FL; gr
 STONE-Aurora B. Who lived with spunk, determination and decency, died peacefully, at 85, at her home in Brooklyn on Feb. 5. She is remembered lovingly by her daughters, Elizabeth Stone and Virginia Jerome; her grandchildren, Paul and Gabe Stone-Jansen and Erin and Kira Jerome; and her sons-
 WHEELER - Harriet Winslow. Died January 26, 2002 in Goshen, NY, formerly of Irvington-On-Hudson, NY. Born July 21, 1913 in New York City. Daughter of the late Gladys R. and Thomas S. Winslow. Survived by her children Brook Wheeler Berlind of New York City, Charles Hathorn Wheeler of Patters
 DONOVAN-Jane, M.D., F.A.P. (Hatheway). 83, of Woodcliff Lake, NJ on Thursday, February 7, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Daniel B., devoted mother of Daniel of Cookeville, TN, John of Mason, NH, and Andrew of NYC, dear sister of Ann Shafnacker of Truro, MA and Elizabeth Rich of Sterling, VA
 HAUG-Frederick J., 91. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. Died February 5, 2002 in New York City. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted and adored father of Gretchen Stone, Hedi White and father-in-law of Lewis Stone and Thomas White. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Stone-Humphrey and her husband Ji
 MIGDAL-Elinor. Of Lake Worth, Florida, died on February 6, 2002. Survived by her husband, Walter, daughter Nancy (Neil) Berliner, grandchildren Alex & Marc, sister Beatrice Rubinson, and many nieces and nephews. Service Sunday, 11 AM, Wellwood Cemetery, Farmingdale, Long Island.       
 PUPKO - KRINSKY - Rokhl. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourns the passing of Rokhl Pupko-Krinsky, woman of valor, one of the Vilna Ghetto ''Paper Brigade'' at the YIVO who saved Jewish books and papers. She was a teacher, survivor, exemplar of Yidishkayt. She will be sorely missed.
 WARSHAUER-Arline. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Arline Warshauer. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Paul M. Weltz, President Burton J. Esrig, Secretary       
 ADAMS-Winifred Beach. Born June 3, 1908 died February 6, 2002. Great-granddaughter of Alfred Ely Beach, inventor of the first New York subway. Devoted and loving mother and friend. She had a special excitement and love of life that was hers alone. Precious memories will linger with all who 
 DANTER-Arnold. Age 91, in Westport, CT., on February 8, 2002. Husband of Tuddie Danter, father of Joan Frimmer and husband Marvin of Westport, CT., Lewis Bader & wife Marcia of Easton, CT., Edward Danter & wife Abby of New Jersey and grandfather of 8. Services Sunday, February 10, 2002 at 1
 HELD-Mae, 92. On February 7, 2002. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our wonderful ''big sister'' and beloved aunt of many. She will be remembered always. Julie Miron, Michael Miron, Marci and Herb Miron       
 LONDON-Yetta. 98 years of age, died February 7, 2002, in Stamford, CT; devoted wife of Benjamin; beloved mother of Anita Schlem and Eileen Holiber; loving grandmother of Margaret and Brett Sherris, William and Debra Holiber, Gary and Josie Schlem, Richard and Yolanda Holiber, and James and 
 Suzanne Bloch, a musician and teacher who spurred interest in early music through her performances on the lute and other instruments, and who promoted the music of her father, Ernest Bloch, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 94. In frequent concerts beginning in 
 ADAMS-Winifred Beach. Born June 3, 1908 died February 6, 2002. Great-granddaughter of Alfred Ely Beach, inventor of the first New York subway. Devoted and loving mother and friend. She had a special excitement and love of life that was hers alone. Precious memories will linger with all who 
 DAVIS-Jeanne Craig, 68. Of Salt Point, New York formerly of Brookville, Long Island. Died Friday, February 8, 2002 at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, New York. Mrs. Davis was born January 21, 1933 in New York City. She was known for breeding horses. Mrs. Davis is survived by her husba
 FREEDMAN-Mara Leslie. Born December 18, 1955, in New York City, died February 2, 2002, of cancer. She is the daughter of the late Esther Katz Freedman and Albert Freedman. Surived by father and step-mother Albert and Nancy of California, siblings Lisa Harris and Derek Freedman of London and
 FUCHS-Stella (Weinreb), 80. Died on February 5th, 2002 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital. Formerly of Miami Beach, FL and Forest Hills, New York. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Fuchs. Mother of Vivian (Vicki) Fuchs of Centerville, MA, & Monica Kramer & her husband Barry of Sarasota, FL. Loving
 GENTLES-Avril. 82. An actress in New York City for 60 years, died November 21, 2001. Her memorial will take place Monday, February 11, 6:30PM at Saint Malachy's Church, 239 West 49 St, N.Y.       
 GREENBERG-Joan. Of New Hempstead, NY passed away on Feb. 7, 2002. She was 63 years old. Beloved wife of Howard. Loving mother to Joyce Maron and Lisa Schoenhaus. Caring sister to Cynthia Cronig. Devoted grandmother to Allison and Justin Maron and Noah and Zoe Schoenhaus. She will be missed 
 HELD-Mae, 92. On February 7, 2002. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our wonderful ''big sister'', and beloved aunt of many. She will be remembered always. Julie Miron, Michael Miron, Marci and Herb Miron       
 LEVINE-Rose (nee Goodman). Age 93, on January 27, 2002. Predeceased by adored husband Isidore in 1972. Beloved mother of Frances and Marian, dear motherin-law, loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Executive secretary for Jewish National Fund until her retirement in 1988, she was an acc
 MAYO-SMITH-Margaret. Writer, painter, and conservationist, of Bedford, NY died on February 8, 2002. On graduation from Smith College, she worked as a writer for Vogue Magazine in New York, Paris and London. Subsequently, she was a writer and editor at the Institute of International Educatio
 NELSON-Ruth Naomi. At her home in Westwood, NJ, on February 8, 2002. Beloved teacher for 35 years. Loving mother of Mark and Adam Nelson. Dear sister of Dr. Emanuel Goldberg and Dr. Theodore Goldberg. Widow of Dr. Nathan Nelson. Funeral services Sunday at 12:30 PM, at GuttermanMusicant, 402
 RAMSEY-Susan Laura. July 16, 1950-February 5, 2002. On February 5, 2002, Susan lost her three year battle with cancer. Throughout her illness she displayed unwavering strength and the bravery of a fearless warrior. She was an accomplished writer and martial artist, a role model to many, and
 UNGER-Pauline L. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving sister of the late Jacob Leventman. She is survived by dear friends who will miss her greatly. Graveside services Monday Beth David Cemetery       
 WALKER-Tomannie T., 80, on February 9, of St. Albans, Queens. Beloved wife of Joseph Walker. Beloved mother of Joseph Jr., Douglass and Julia. Grandmother of Jo, Christopher, Nicholas and Evan. Mother-in-law of Fran and Annette. Longtime member of the League School family of Brooklyn and li
 WARD-Anne Philomena. On February 7, 2002. Daughter of the late Daniel and Bridget (nee Bonner). Predeceased in 1949 by sister, Baby Margie. Survived by brothers, Daniel and Manus. Also survived by sister-in-law, three nieces and one grandniece in VA. Predeceased by nephew Danny. In Ireland 
 Princess Margaret, the younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II, whose troubled private life aroused both worldwide sympathy and widespread reprobation, died yesterday morning in London. She was 71. She suffered a stroke on Friday afternoon, the latest in a series that had left her part
 DAVIS-Jeanne Craig, 68. Of Salt Point, New York formerly of Brookville, Long Island. Died Friday, February 8, 2002 at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, New York. Mrs. Davis was born January 21, 1933 in New York City. She was known for breeding horses. Mrs. Davis is survived by her husba
 GOLDSTEIN - Patricia Vamos. Died February 9, 2002. She was the widow of Bernard Goldstein, an attorney with the IRS and professor at Baruch College and Pace University. She was a well respected expert, collector and dealer in antique jewelry. Shortly before her death she graciously donated 
 KIRCHHEIN-Jean Calvin. Of Mattituck, LI, on February 8, 2002. Retired Assistant to the Treasurer in the Office of Investments at Columbia University. Predeceased by her husband, Clement, a sister, Ruth Reilly, and a nephew, Norman Reilly, Sr. Survived by nieces and nephews. Reposing at the 
 LEVINGSON-Ruth Weinstock. On February 9, 2002, in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Levingson. Devoted mother of Jill and Dr. Charles Nechemias and Abby and Robert J. Levine. Loving grandmother of David and Nancy Levine and Peter and Lindsey Levine. Graveside service. Shiva at 
 MAYO-SMITH-Margaret. Writer, painter, and conservationist, of Bedford, NY died on February 8, 2002. On graduation from Smith College, she worked as a writer for Vogue Magazine in New York, Paris and London. Subsequently, she was a writer and editor at the Institute of International Educatio
 SMITH-Moira Ann (nee Reddy), 38, of Brooklyn, NY, died heroically in the line of duty on September 11, 2001. Beloved wife of James. Loving mother of Patricia Mary. Cherished sister of Mary Reddy. Adored godmother of Allison Reddy. Dear niece and cousin. Devoted friend to many. Proud New Yor
 TANUR-Rachel D. Born March 15, 1958, of New York, NY, passed away on February 10, 2002. Rachel was a devoted granddaughter of Edith Tanur, cherished daughter of Michael and Judy Tanur, sister and true friend of Marcia Tanur and her partner Vicky Gurfolino, loving and proud aunt of Emma and 
 VOLZ-Hilda (Weber). On February 4 at the age of 95. Born in Mannheim, Germany, she immigrated to the U.S. in 1928, becoming a U.S. citizen in 1934. She was the widow of Hermann Volz, who reopened Chase's branches in Germany after the Second World War. Mr. Volz died in 1976. She was a commun
 WALLACH-Arleen Gail. On February 9, 2002. Beloved and adored wife of Henry. Devoted mother of Louis and Ty. Dear mother-in-law of Allison. Loving sister of Dr. Joel Wilentz and sister-in-law of Linda. Cherished grandmother of Charlie. A unique and wonderful woman who made us feel good about
 WEINRIB-Norma. On February 9, 2002. Beloved wife of Jerry (Jay), devoted mother of Paulette Mae Cole, Madeline Beth Weinrib and the late Steven Lloyd Weinrib. Cherished grandmother of Lena Pearl and the late Kyle and Jeremy Cole. Mother-in-law of Evan Cole. Loving sister of Gloria and Dan P
 COHEN-Ida Phillips, born April 5, 1906 in Paterson, New Jersey, died in Pompano Beach, Florida on Sunday, February 10, 2002. She was the devoted wife of the late Samuel Cohen and the loving mother of Beryl (Murray) Zankel and Alan (Carol) Cohen. She was the grandmother of six and the great-
 MAYO-SMITH-Margaret. Writer, painter, and conservationist, of Bedford, NY died on February 8, 2002. On graduation from Smith College, she worked as a writer for Vogue Magazine in New York, Paris and London. Subsequently, she was a writer and editor at the Institute of International Educatio
 MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. On February 9, 2002, age 98, in New York City. She was the wife of the late Maurice T. Moore, the mother of Michael Moore and the late M. Thompson Moore, Jr. and the sister of the late Henry R. Luce. Born in Teng Chou, Shandong, China of missionary parents. She attende
 RUSSELL-Rosemary. The Advisory Boards of the Schneider Concerts at The New School and the New York String Orchestra Seminar mourn the loss of its devoted administrator and extend deepest sympathy to her husband Robin and son Matthew. Her love for these projects was only exceeded by the love
 SMITH-Moira Ann (nee Reddy), 38, of Brooklyn, NY, died heroically in the line of duty on September 11, 2001. Beloved wife of James. Loving mother of Patricia Mary. Cherished sister of Mary Reddy. Adored godmother of Allison Reddy. Dear niece and cousin. Devoted friend to many. Proud New Yor
 SPERLING-Ethel. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Ethel Sperling. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Irving and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 TANUR-Rachel D. Born March 15, 1958, of New York, NY, passed away on February 10, 2002. Rachel was a devoted granddaughter of Edith Tanur, cherished daughter of Michael and Judy Tanur, sister and true friend of Marcia Tanur and her partner Vicky Gurfolino, loving and proud aunt of Emma and 
 WEINRIB-Norma. On February 9, 2002. Beloved wife of Jerry (Jay), devoted mother of Paulette Mae Cole, Madeline Beth Weinrib and the late Steven Lloyd Weinrib. Cherished grandmother of Lena Pearl and the late Kyle and Jeremy Cole. Mother-in-law of Evan Cole. Loving sister of Gloria and Dan P
 WIMPFHEIMER-Ruth. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Kurt and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, P
 BURT-Maggie Z. Horn, 105. Died on February 5th in Alexandria, VA. Born Shelbyville in East Texas in 1896, living there and Fort Worth with siblings and parents Dr. John Henry Horn and Ada Sullivan Horn. Taught piano in Fort Worth, and after 1930, in New York City. Husband, Henry Radcliffe B
 COHEN-Ida. She was the beloved matriarch of a close knit clan. She married Samuel, her partner for life; raised two accomplished children-Alan and Beryl; built a successful small business; and died peacefully in her home surrounded by her loved ones at the age of 95. She leaves behind child
 EPSTEIN-Kate (nee Kayla Singer). Of Astoria, Queens, NY on February 11, 2002, peacefully in her sleep at home after a short illness. Loving wife of the late Lawrence. Beloved mother of Rhoda Lela (Boris Leibovitch), Edward Mark (Marta Braun), Richard Michael (Jane Imbasciani). Devoted ''bab
 GABRINER-Lillian (nee Rosenbaum). At age 98. Of Palm Beach, FL. on February 11, 2002. She was the beloved wife of Arthur, for 72 years. Devoted mother of Linda Friedman and son-in-law Harold. Loving grandmother of Lianne, Jeffrey and Peter Friedman, and Laura Blum. Adoring great grandmother
 GROSBERG-Marion. On Feb. 12, 2002 at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Harvey & Julia Grosberg, and Jill and Joel Greenstein. Proud grandmother of Michelle, Alisa, Haley, Rebecca & the late Rachel. She was a devoted, lifelong member of Hadassah and a supporter
 HIGGINS-Margaret, nee Canny, February 12, 2002, at her home in Bronxville, NY. Wife of Edward M. Higgins (d. 1997). Survived by children Edward, Clare, Ellen and Daniel and six grandchildren. Visitation at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, 20 Cedar St, Bronxville, 2:00 to 4:00 and 7:0
 LANDE-Anita. On February 11, 2002. Beloved wife of Robert, loving mother of Laura Graumann and her husband Fred, Barbara Lande and John Lande. Devoted grandmother of Carol and Billy. Dear sister of David Mersten. Memorial service Thursday 3PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam 
 MAYO - SMITH - Margaret. The Board of Trustees of the Friends of John Jay Homestead mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Margaret. Her vision and leadership inspired us all.       
 MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. On February 9, 2002, age 98, in New York City. She was the wife of the late Maurice T. Moore, the mother of Michael Moore and the late M. Thompson Moore, Jr. and the sister of the late Henry R. Luce. Born in Teng Chou, Shandong, China of missionary parents. She attende
 NEFF-Mary Alice. Age 88. Died February 4, 2002 in Manhattan, where she had resided since 1939, after a long illness. Survived by her husband, Richard B. Neff, and son, Richard B. Neff, Jr., of Palm Beach. Burial to be in Athens, GA. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Children's Health
 ORR-Miriam J. Beloved wife of the late Israel David Orr; loving mother of Sue Orr; dear sister of the late Ruth and the late Hattie; cherished aunt of Suzanne and Florence. Survived by her brotherin-law Eli and sisters-in-law Sylvia and Minnie. Services ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadway
 ROSENTHAL-Adele. Born June 8, 1913 died at her home on Monday, February 11, 2002. An active, funloving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, she enjoyed a fifty-five year marriage to the late Abner Rosenthal, M.D. She was a long time resident of Queens, an ardent supporter of the Feder
 URRY-Mrs. Charles F. Known as Kathe, passed away on February 10th in Locust Valley, NY at the age of 83. She was born in Prague, educated in Switzerland and London and was a graduate of the Sorbonne. She is survived by Valerie Urry, James & daughterin-law, Lieta Urry and three grandchildren
 WIMPFHEIMER-Ruth. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Wimpfheimer, a cherished friend, who expressed her commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes through her generosity on behalf of our Women's Campaign. Mrs. Wimpfheim
 BERNSTEIN - MEYEROWITZ Theresa. Painter and writer of New York City and Gloucester, MA, died peacefully on February 12, 2002, at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Date of birth reported to be March 1, 1890. She graduated from Philadelphia's School of Design for Women (now the Moore College of Art) in 191
 BOGDONOFF-Shirley (nee Laszlo), Liebowitz on Feb. 12, 2002 after months of illness. Family, friends and community were her involvement in life. Her love, humor and how she affected each of us will live in our memories. In January, Congregation Anshei Shalom designated her as its first Aishe
 ETTINGER-Janis. We mourn the untimely passing of our former colleague and dear friend. Throughout her career and her illness Janis was an inspiration to us all. We shall miss her. The Partners and Associates of Stroock       
 ISAACSON-Lenore G. Of Delray Beach, FL, tragically passed away February 12, 2002. Loving wife of the late I. Joseph Isaacson. Adored mother of Arline Isaacson and her domestic partner Lynn Bradburry, and also daughter Susan Alnwick. Cherished grandmother of Jenna and Rebecca. Services today
 LANDE-Anita. We deeply mourn the sad passing of our dear friend and loving neighbor, a resident of 325 Central Park West for 63 years. Supporting the ideals of the West Side Urban Renewal Area, her passion and advocacy was invaluable in the creation of our cooperative. A brilliant writer an
 MAYO - SMITH - Margaret. The Board of Trustees of the Friends of John Jay Homestead mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Margaret. Her vision and leadership inspired us all.       
 MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. On February 9, 2002, age 98, in New York City. She was the wife of the late Maurice T. Moore, the mother of Michael Moore and the late M. Thompson Moore, Jr. and the sister of the late Henry R. Luce. Born in Teng Chou, Shandong, China of missionary parents. She attende
 NEFF-Mary Alice. Age 88. Died February 4, 2002 in Manhattan, where she had resided since 1939, after a long illness. Survived by her husband, Richard B. Neff, and son, Richard B. Neff, Jr., of Palm Beach. Burial to be in Athens, GA. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Children's Health
 ROSENTHAL-Adele. Born June 8, 1913 died at her home on Monday, February 11, 2002. An active, funloving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, she enjoyed a fifty-five year marriage to the late Abner Rosenthal, M.D. She was a long time resident of Queens, an ardent supporter of the Feder
 SCLOVE-Louise Herzog. Died in Amherst at 92. Formerly of NYC and Westport CT. Died February 8 in the Center for Extended Care in Amherst, MA. Born February 3, 1910 in New Rochelle, NY, she was the daughter of the late Joseph L. and Eleanor (Guiterman) Herzog. Louise Sclove graduated from We
 URRY-Mrs. Charles F. Known as Kathe, passed away on February 10th in Locust Valley, NY at the age of 83. She was born in Prague, educated in Switzerland and London and was a graduate of the Sorbonne. She is survived by Valerie Urry, James & daughterin-law, Lieta Urry and three grandchildren
 WANDER-Ruth F. nee Fell. Beloved wife of Herbert S. Wander. Devoted mother of Daniel (Ruth Freedman) Wander, Susan (Richard) Sorkin and Lois Wander. Cherished grandmother of Abigail Anne, Samuel Alexander, Rachel Eleanor and Hannah Shoshana. Loving sister of Joseph (Karen Templeton) Fell, B
 WEINRIB-Norma. A brave and wonderful woman. We will miss her terribly. Dan and Ethel LRF Risk Management       
 YAKER-Gertrude, died peacefully at 88 on February 12. Predeceased by loving husband Philip. Her life was rich with family, and she will be missed by her children, brother, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Funeral today at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue (West 91st S
 Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan last night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley. She was 93.   
 Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan on Wednesday night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley. She wa
 Elisabeth Mann Borgese, a multifaceted writer, defender of marine resources and founder of the International Oceans Institute based in Malta, died on Feb. 8 while on vacation in St. Moritz, Switzerland. She was 83 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Professor Borgese was the last sur
 BILLINGSLEY - Frances Long worth. Age 89, died peacefully on February 14, 2002 in Somers, NY. Resident of Somers for 57 years, founder of Frances Billingsley Realty, a founder and president of the Somers Historical Society, trustee of the Westchester Historical Society, delegate to UNICEF e
 ELLIOT-Wanda. On February 14, 2002. Wife of the late Mike Elliot. Loving mother of Mootsy, Robert, Peter and Max. Cherished grandmother of David, Hattie and Michael. Dear sister of Mary Sohl. Devoted companion of Oliver Lundquist. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 8
 HOLZMAN-Caryll. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member Caryll Holzman our deepest hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Be
 LASHER-Gertrude. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi-Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 Theresa Bernstein, who as a member of the Ash Can School of realistic painting was both hailed and flailed for ''painting like a man'' in the 1910's and then continued to generate vibrant canvases for eight more decades, died in Manhattan on Tuesday. She was generally believed to be 111 and
 BILLINGSLEY - Frances Long worth. Age 89, died peacefully on February 14, 2002 in Somers, NY. Resident of Somers for 57 years, founder of Frances Billingsley Realty, a founder and president of the Somers Historical Society, trustee of the Westchester Historical Society, delegate to UNICEF e
 CHORNEY-Sally. Our dear friend, a special person and very special to us. Throughout her illness she was so brave and an inspiration to all who knew her. Our deep condolences to Samford, Nancy, Alan, Harris & her entire family. Rest in peace. We shall miss you terribly. Mitzi and Fred       
 CHUTE-Yura Sophie. Wife of the late A. Lionel Chute and daughter of the late Ignas & Laura Slapelis, died in her home in Washington, New Hampshire on February 13, 2002. She was born in Kaunas, Lithuania in 1927, and emigrated to the United States following Lithuania's extended occupation by
 COOLIDGE-Martha (Muffy) Henderson. Of Cambridge, Massachusetts, 77. Died on February 11, after a long illness. The widow of Harold Jefferson Coolidge, she is survived by her sister-in-law, Maia Henderson, her cousin, Theodore Conant, many Coolidge relatives and dear friends. A memorial serv
 CYMROT-Doris. 90, of Lauderhill, FL, passed away on February 8, 2002. She was a beloved wife, sister and aunt. For information, contact Star of David Memorial Chapel & Cemetery, North Lauderdale, FL, (954) 722-9000.       
 de GRAZIA-Lucia Heffelfinger. Age 75, on February 10, in Princeton, NJ. Born in Minneapolis, MN to influential Republican parents, Elizabeth and Peavey Heffelfinger. Her mother was treasurer of the National Women's Republican Organization and her father was a wealthy grain dealer. She moved
 DRACH-Ethel. 92 years old. Died on February 15, 2002. Beloved wife of her Martin. Devoted mother of Ellie Rothschild and David and Les Drach. Grandma extraordinaire to Gregg and Stefanie, Marc and Jolie, Robert and Terri and Kim. Great-grandma to Keith, Eli, Amy, Dylan and Molly. Services S
 FREEMAN-Mary Ann. Feb. 14, 2002. Beloved daughter of Bernard (Barney) Martin and Catherine Martin. Devoted sister of Penny Misiak and Donald Martin. Loving aunt of Carol Reed. She was an Account Executive at Infinity Broadcasting. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Mem
 GUTTMAN-Blanche. On February 14. She would have been 101 on February 17. Beloved wife of the late Paul Guttman. Loving mother of LeRoy and Joan, Joyce and Al. Cherished grandmother of Howard and Grace, Beth and Gary, Alan and Michelle, Steven and Phil, Richard and Erica, Lori and Vett. Ador
 HOTCHKISS-Mary Potts. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers mourn the death of Mary Potts Hotchkiss, founding member of the East End Hospice Board of Directors and our dear friend and patron. Mimi will long be remembered for her steadfast dedication to bringing about
 MILLER-Frances M. (nee Marmarosh). Died in her home at age 90 on Feb 5. Memorial service on Saturday, March 30 at 3 PM in the Community Room at 230 E. 88 St. Memorial Contributions to: Senior Adult Program, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, NYC 10128.       
 SCHWARTZ - Jeanette. Loving wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Kiala and Lila, and sons-in-law Al and Gene. Adored grandmother of seven, greatgrandmother of 10, and caring friend. Died on February 14, 2002, at age 94. We will miss our beloved matriarch. From Brooklyn to Florida to B
 SCLOVE-Louise Herzog. Died in Amherst at 92. Formerly of NYC and Westport CT. Died February 8 in the Center for Extended Care in Amherst, MA. Born February 3, 1910 in New Rochelle, NY, she was the daughter of the late Joseph L. and Eleanor (Guiterman) Herzog. Louise Sclove graduated from We
 SEEMANN-Kate Jennings. Of South Norwalk, CT, on February 15, 2002. Daughter of the late Benjamin Brewster and Kate (Prentice) Jennings. Survived by her brother John Prentice Jennings of Mill Neck, NY. Also by her daughters Kate Webb Harris of New York City and Shelburne, VT, Laura W. Brown 
 SUSSMAN-Ilene. January 19, 2002. Beloved wife of Brian, loving Mommy of Rhy, cherished sister of Janet & dear daughter of Arthur and the late Rosalie, stepdaughter of Sydell, best friend to countless many, & accomplished attorney and law partner. She was adored by all those she touched as s
 ZAKIN-Shirley Ruth, a beautiful 81. Died Feb. 14, Kitty's Birthday and Valentine's Day and is now resting with her loving husband Paul. A devoted mother to Jonathon, David, Richard and Robert, and grandmother to fourteen, and sister to Joan and Nathan, Lucille and Joel.       
 ZOSS-Betty Hurwich. A resident of Falmouth, died February 2, at the Royal Megansett Nursing and Retirement Home in North Falmouth, MA. She was 83. Mrs. Zoss was born in South Bend, IN, and was a longtime resident of Martha's Vineyard, MA, and Berkeley Heights, NJ. A graduate of the Universi
 Ani Pachen, celebrated as the warrior nun who led her Tibetan clan in armed rebellion against the Chinese invaders until she was captured and spent 21 years as a prisoner, died on Feb. 2 in her home in exile in Dharmsala, India. She was 68 or 69. John Hocevar, executive director of 
 BILLINGSLEY - Frances Long worth. Age 89, died peacefully on February 14, 2002 in Somers, NY. Resident of Somers for 57 years, founder of Frances Billingsley Realty, a founder and president of the Somers Historical Society, trustee of the Westchester Historical Society, delegate to UNICEF e
 FAHEY-Helen. Of Larchmont, NY, died on February 16, 2002, at age 97. Survived by her son Dr. Thomas Fahey Jr. of NYC, daughter Toni Cherashore of Larchmont, NY, seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchilden. Visiting at Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, Tuesday, 2-4, 7-9 PM. Mass 10:30 AM, S
 GOLDMAN-Irene. Of Mamaroneck, NY, died just one day after her beloved husband Melvin, on February 16 in Florida. Survived by son Peter, daughters Marilyn Zelman and Ronnie Collins. Funeral service Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at the Westchester Jewish Center in Mamaroneck followed by interment at Riv
 HABER-Ruth. Age 89. Beloved wife of the late George. Adored sister of Irwin Resnick of San Diego, CA, and Bernard Resnick of Miami, FL. Died after a long battle with Alzheimers on February 16, 2002. Loved by many nieces, nephews and friends and admired for her long successful career with I.
 NELSON-Rose S. On February 16, 2002, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Irving S. Nelson, devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Nancy Nelson, Jane Waterman and Philip Jr., Peter Nelson and Xenia. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip Waterman III, Anne Waterman, Carolyn Clayton a
 SEEMANN-Kate Jennings. Of South Norwalk, CT, on February 15, 2002. Daughter of the late Benjamin Brewster and Kate (Prentice) Jennings. Survived by her brother John Prentice Jennings of Mill Neck, NY. Also by her daughters Kate Webb Harris of New York City and Shelburne, VT, Laura W. Brown 
 SPIVAK-Mae. Age 82, of NYC, on February 17, 2002. Beloved and devoted mother of Fern Weiss. Adored grandmother of Cantor Steven Weiss and Jennifer Mager and great-grandmother of Jamie Mager. She is also survived by her brother Ralph Sobel. We will miss you terribly. Services will be held Mo
 ANDERSON-Gilda. On February 15, 2002. Wife of the late playwright Maxwell Anderson, sister of Hilda Galley. Beloved mother, grandmother, and great grandmother. Formerly of Stamford, CT, she died peacefully at her home in Manhattan. A wise and devoted wife and mother, Gilda, after a life in 
 BARKHAM-Margot. Died on February 12 in Sarasota. Survived by her sister Pauline Forbath of Philadelphia, her brother Physil Buirski of Hallandale and her brother Abe Buirski of London and her children Jennifer and Graham and her grandchildren Scott, Phoebe, Elliott and David. She was born o
 FARRAND-Vera N., nee Popov, 95, Of Pondfield Rd. in Bronxville, NY, beloved wife of the late Clair L. Farrand, died at home February 13th. Born in Riga, Latvia, to Russian parents, she and her family fled German occupation during World War I and settled in Tallinn, Estonia. She attended a G
 FRASCONI-Leona Pierce. 81, on February 12. An accomplished woodcut artist, painter and teacher. She is survived by her husband, Antonio Frasconi; two sons, Pablo and Miguel; and granddaughter, Luisa Marie. Contact the Lawrence Funeral Home, Darien, CT, for more information.       
 LEVY-Ann. Died peacefully on February 17, 2002, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Phyllis and Mike Gorel. Grandma extraordinaire to Leslie and Marc Grossman, Susan & Robert Weiser, & Edward Gorel. Great grandma to Andrea, Julie, Jeffrey, David, Steven and
 MATIS-Rosalie Metzger. Of NY, died peacefully on February 18, 2002 at age 78. Beloved wife of the late Jacob David Matis, beloved and devoted mother of Nancy Dreyfuss, loving and adored grandmother of Jessica Matis and Leah Dreyfuss. She is also survived by a son, George Matis. You fought a
 MOSKOWITZ-Gertrude. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Died peacefully on February 16, 2002, at age 97 in Stamford, CT. She is survived by a son, Mark Moskowitz, a daughter and son-in-law, Judith & Ira Ellenthal, five grandchildren, three granddaughters-in-law, six great-grandchildren and se
 NELSON-Rose S. On February 16, 2002, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Irving S. Nelson, devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Nancy Nelson, Jane Waterman and Philip Jr., Peter Nelson and Xenia. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip Waterman III, Anne Waterman, Carolyn Clayton a
 SCHUBERT-Winifred Mary (nee Maguire). Of Monmouth Beach, formerly of Maplewood, wife of the late Walter B. Schubert, loving mother of Walter, Joseph, Paula, Patricia, Margaret Sullivan, Maria Saltonstall, caring grandmother of Jack, Matthew and Andrew Saltonstall, Ryan and Tim Sullivan, dea
 SCHUMACHER-Claire E. Age 83, of Tyler Hill, PA., and New York City, died Sunday, February 17, 2002 at King James Care Center of Middletown. She was employed by the New York Public Library as a librarian for many years. Her surviving nieces and nephews mourn her passing. Cremation services w
 SEEMANN-Kate Jennings. Of South Norwalk, CT, on February 15, 2002. Daughter of the late Benjamin Brewster and Kate (Prentice) Jennings. Survived by her brother John Prentice Jennings of Mill Neck, NY. Also by her daughters Kate Webb Harris of New York City and Shelburne, VT, Laura W. Brown 
 SILVERMAN-Beatrice. On Feb. 17, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Alan Jared and Elise Moran and mother-in-law of Terrence Moran. Dear sister of Sylvia Kovar. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Morgan, Matthew and Helen. She will be missed by her family, many friend
 TUBELSKAYA - Natasha (nee Nancy Tobey). Artist, age 56. Died after a fire in her home/studio in Rome, Italy on February 17. Beloved sister of David M. Tobey of New York City. Funeral arrangements to be announced.       
 WOODS-Edelmira Lopez. Died February 13, 2002, at home in her sleep. Born on March 27, 1910, in Naranjito, P.R. She is survived by her son John of Harrisburg, NY, and daughter Irene Catanzaro of Brooklyn, NY, five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. The memorial service will be held
 ABRAHAM-Helene. On February 19, 2002, in Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Sandy, devoted mother of Nancy and Jimmy, and mother-in-law of Andrea Abraham and Arnold Moss. Loving grandmother of Lauren, Antonia & Karen Abraham. Helene wished that there be no formal funeral service, but hope
 BANG-JENSEN-Helen Jean Nolan, 87. On January 21, 2002. She was the widow of Povl BangJensen, a Danish diplomat and UN official. Active in the Chappaqua community, Mrs. Bang-Jensen served as a local newspaper correspondent and founding member of the New Castle Historical Society. A Port Jerv
 HESS-Hildegard, 95. Died on Thursday, January 24 at home in Lakewood, New Jersey. Born and raised in Berlin, Germany, she came to New York after World War II and was a dietician at Mt. Sinai Hospital until her retirement. She loved music & had a beautiful singing voice. She was the sister o
 KAMENY-Ellen. A wonderful person, with a host of good and faithful friends. Caring, gentle, always concerned with the comfort and well-being of others, with their joys and pains. A special area of her life was devoted to music which she deeply loved. She was dedicated to her family, especia
 KORN-Benita. Cherished wife of Robert, in Brooklyn on February 16, 2002. Former copy editor for Sports Illustrated, Fortune, and Art & Antiques Magazines. She brought joy and happiness to everyone who knew her. Her absence will be immeasurable.       
 LEVINE-Beth. Beloved and respected founding faculty member, she fought her disease with courage, dignity and determination. She was an inspiration to all of us. Her many contributions to the School and to all our students who benefited from her wisdow and caring will always be remembered. A
 MATIS-Rosalie. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime, devoted member, Rosalie Matis, beloved wife of the late Dr. Jacob D. Matis, an Honorary Trustee. Our deepest condolences to her children Nancy and George, her granddaughters Lauren & Jessie, and all her
 ROTH ROEMER-Ruth nee Solomon, 88. Of Delray Beach, FL, passed away peacefully on February 18, 2002. Born in Detroit, MI, Ruth had a successful career in both the fastener and furniture business. In 1954, she moved to NY and participated actively in charities and family life. She is survived
 TRIGERE-Pauline. Always ready with a ''bon mot'', ready to party, inpeccably chic, Pauline Trigere was incomparable-bigger than life. We mourn her passing with her sons Jean-Pierre and Philippe, her daughter-in-law Melanie and granddaughter Karen. Jacky and Jeff Clyman, Karen and Cooke Rand
 TUBELSKAYA - Natasha (nee Nancy Tobey). Artist, age 56. Died after a fire in her home/studio in Rome, Italy on February 17. Beloved sister of David M. Tobey of New York City. Funeral arrangements to be announced.       
 WALTERS-Madeline R. Of Bergenfield, New Jersey. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ and Astoria, NY. Died February 18, 2002. A graduate of the City University of New York and a former member of Precious Blood Church in Astoria. She was for many years secretary and executive assistant to the president o
 Sylvia Rivera, who helped lead the charge -- in makeup and full voice -- at the birth of the modern gay liberation movement, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 50 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver cancer, said the Rev. Pat Bumgardner of the Metropol
 Virginia Hamilton, an internationally recognized writer for children whose work celebrated the African-American experience as an essential component of American life, died yesterday in Dayton, Ohio. She was 65 and lived in Yellow Springs, Ohio. The cause was breast cancer, said Kris
 ABRAHAM-Helene. On February 19, 2002, in Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Sandy, devoted mother of Nancy and Jimmy, and mother-in-law of Andrea Abraham and Arnold Moss. Loving grandmother of Lauren, Antonia & Karen Abraham. Helene wished that there be no formal funeral service, but hope
 BACKAL-Lorraine, 75. Of Murrysville, PA, formerly of Long Island, died Tuesday February 19, 2002. She was born June 11, 1926, in Brooklyn, a daughter of Aziz and Mabel Backal. Prior to retirement in 1994, she had been a judge in Bronx County, NY. Mother of Sinde Snitger of Murrysville, PA, 
 BOOKMAN-Janet S. Passed away February 19, 2002, age 84 at her home in Lakeville, Connecticut. Born in Brooklyn and raised in the Bronx, she went to Washington, DC in The New Deal Days, worked for several U.S. Government agencies, including the Library of Congress intelligence group in the e
 DEAN-Beatrice M. Age 87, on February 17. Loving mother of Kathie and Alice and her husband Gove, cherished grandmother of Sean and Laura. We all will miss you. Memorial service Saturday, February 23 at 9:30 A.M. Fort Schuyler House, 3077 Cross Bronx Expressway, Bronx, N.Y. 10465.       
 FELDSTEIN-Anna (nee Landau). Died peacefully February 19, 2002 at the age of 92. She is survived by her sons Arthur and Fred, daughter-in-law Joan and granddaughter Lori. Service 11:30AM today, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 St and Amsterdam Av. Burial to follow Mount Ararat Cemetery.       
 HANSEN-Ruth Catherine Unger. A native of New York, wife of the late Nelson Hansen, died in Cabrini Medical Center, February 18, 2002. Born November 2, 1911, daughter of the late George and Margaret Mulligan Unger. A member of the administrative staff of Bellevue Hospital for more than 40 ye
 KAMENY-Ellen. Shocked and saddened, we bid a fond farewell to our dear friend and colleague Ellen. She will be sorely missed and long remembered by everyone in the Alzheimer's community whose lives she touched. The Staff, Volunteers and Board Alzheimer's Association, NYC       
 SCHNEITZER-Mildred. Died February 20, 2002. Beloved wife of 50 years to Herbert, who predeceased her. Dear mother of Leila Schneitzer Wilner. Mother-in-law of Gregg Wilner. Cherished grandma of Jordan and Harris Wilner. Services Friday 10 AM at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn. Int
 STORKE-Georgette M. The wife of the late William F.J. Storke passed away on February 16, 2002, after a courageous struggle with cancer. She is survived and will be greatly missed by a son, William M. Storke, two step-children, Adam and Victoria and three stepgrandchildren, Giacomo, Isabella
 VAN ALEN-Candace A. One of the tireless supporters of the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club, Candy Van Alen left us peacefully on the morning ofTuesday, 19 February, 2002. Without her indefatigable efforts and generosity, SSMAC would have been hard put to survive the many year
 ABRAHAM-Helene. The Board, staff and volunteers of the Yorkville Common Pantry mourn the passing of our loving friend and long standing board member Helene Abraham. No one has done more to support our organization than our very special ''Fairy Godmother'' Helene and her husband Sandy. John 
 BACKAL-Lorraine, 75. Of Murrysville, PA, formerly of Long Island, died Tuesday February 19, 2002. She was born June 11, 1926, in Brooklyn, a daughter of Aziz and Mabel Backal. Prior to retirement in 1994, she had been a judge in Bronx County, NY. Mother of Sinde Snitger of Murrysville, PA, 
 COWLES-Nedine M. Of New London, N.H. formerly of Riverside, Conn., died February 19 at the Centers for the living and Rehabilitation in Bennington, VT., after a long illness. She was 86 years old and died of Alzheimer's Disease. Mrs. Cowles was born December 31, 1915, in Greenwich, Conn. th
 derSTEPANIAN-Alice. Born Keshishian, a descendant of the Cilician Armenian royal families. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother to the derStepanian family. Passed away Monday, February 18, 2002 in Englewood, N.J. She was the wife of the late statesman and writer Mihran derStepa
 DURDIN-Margaret (Peggy). Age 92, of pneumonia on February 12, 2002, at Silverado Senior Living, Encinitas, California. Beloved wife of the late F. Tillman Durdin, loving sister of Maude Hudson and Lena Albright, both deceased, and of brother Oscar V. Armstrong of Mitchellville, MD, & of inf
 LOGAN-Alice Fair, 87. Of Englewood, FL, died on February 17, 2002 at her residence. She was born October 25th, 1914 in Chicago, IL. and came to Englewood, FL. from L.I., NY in 1970. She was a member of St. Marks Episcopal Church, an avid nature lover and artist. Survivors include her son, J
 McNALLY-Kay G. On Feb. 18, 2002. A prominent attorney in the field of Juvenile Rights, she drafted legislation helping to establish the concept of Kinship Foster Care. She loved chamber music and gardening. Wife of John; mother of John and Claire; grandmother of Katherine and Lena. She will
 NEWELL-Kerrin Berger. Of Southampton, NY, formerly of Westport, CT on February 19, 2002. Beloved wife of Gareth (Gary), loving sister of Wendy Berger Margules of Danbury, CT, Lucia Berger Brooks of Weston, CT and Craig Morley Berger of Westport, CT. She is also survived by her mother Doroth
 Peggy Durdin, a foreign correspondent and writer who in the course of four decades covered almost every country in Asia, died on Feb. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. She was 92. Ms. Durdin, who began writing in 1938 after marrying Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New
 Monte M. Williams, a reporter for The New York Times, died yesterday in Forest Hills, Queens. She was 40. She was taken to Parkway Hospital on Thursday after her cousins Renée Blakes and Rainey El-Shabazz went to her apartment in Forest Hills because she had not responded to an ans
 MARQUIT-Cheslea Dee Stapleton. Born November 27, 1916, Parkersburg, West Virginia, the daughter of Joseph Clark Johnson Stapleton and Georgeanne Reese Stapleton. Received a Bachelor of Arts at Ohio University, 1939. Studied at the Cincinnati Conservatory with Alfred Rose, nephew of Gustave 
 BARNETT-Stella Gordon. Devoted wife of the late Louis Barnett and Jules Gordon. Beloved mother of Barbara Barnett and Dr. Richard Steinfeld and Brenda Barnett and Dr. Charles Solomon. Adored grandmother of Pamela Steinfeld and Richard Dagen and Karen and Jonathon Fishman, Lauren Barnett Ste
 BRAUN EVANS-Eleanor. Died February 19, 2002. A wonderful loving lady is now at rest. Thanks for so many wonderful, loving years, Your husband Lani. Eleanor will be interred in Daytona Beach, FL. with her parents.       
 CLAPP-STEEL-Martica (Hartley) Maiden name: Gloria Martha Alberni Argilagos De Mola. Born Cuba July 4th 1927. Died February 2nd 2002. She was a small but powerful woman; she often referred to her self as a good thing in a small package. Her laurels are too many to mention. She will be missed
 DAVIS-Rosalie Gallert, of Glen Ridge, NJ. Peacefully in Asheville NC, just short of 90. Adored, devoted wife of the late Hy. Loving mother of Susan Esposito and Barbara Litt. Cherished mother-inlaw of Rudy and Larry. Thrilled grandma of Jonathan and Natasha. A truly warm, gracious, dignifie
 FITZMAURICE-Helen Smith, 80. Died Sunday, February 3, after a lengthy illness. Born Helen Smith in Shamokin, PA. She served in the Army Nurse Corps; worked at New York Hospital as a Registered Nurse, volunteer and Account Representative. Beloved wife of Thomas Fitzmaurice (deceased 1974). S
 GUGGENHEIM-Miriam. On February 22 at age 79. Beloved wife of Manfred; loving mother of Beth and Carl Lieberman, Amy and Yerachmiel Perlow; devoted grandmother of Stefanie and Adam, Andrew, Menachem Zvi, Reuven Aryeh, and Avraham Yehuda; loving sister of Esther Temlock and Adeline and Norman
 HASKELL-Florence, 86, on February 16, 2002. Beloved sister, aunt and friend. Lifelong champion of the disabled, despite her own disability. We celebrate her love, courage, wise counsel and wit. She is survived by sisters Esther, Ruth; brother Leon; nieces Donna, Linda, Hope, Bonnie; nephew 
 KESSLER-Martha Myiofis. Devoted wife of the late Irving. Cherished mother of Sue Feld and Margaret Danson. Dear motherin-law of Stuart Feld and Stephen Danson. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, Peter, Christopher, and Melissa. Mourned by her sister Celia Gordon, niece and nephew, grand-niece
 LEVINE-Beth. Beloved and respected founding faculty member, she fought her disease with courage, dignity and determination. She was an inspiration to all of us. Her many contributions to the School and to all our students who benefited from her wisdow and caring will always be remembered. A
 LOWIN-Lili. Nee Spieler. Age 93. Passed away peacefully on February 19th after a short illness. Lili was a wonderful mother to George and Joan, the best friend of their spouses Erica and James, and a doting grandmother to Rachel and Leanne Davis. Born in Vienna, Austria, Lili fled the Nazis
 MONACO-Diana (Berman) Benton. Of West Palm Beach, formerly of Bronx, NY, passed away February 21, 2002. Cherished wife of the late Joseph Monaco. Devoted mother of Robert (Linda) Benton, Allen Benton and Ida (Herman Green) Benton. Loving grandmother of Suzanne (Harry) Carlson, Claudia, Mark
 NELSON-Rose S. On February 16, 2002, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Irving S. Nelson, devoted and proud mother and mother-in-law of Nancy Nelson, Jane Waterman and Philip Jr., Peter Nelson and Xenia. Loved and admired grandmother of Philip Waterman III, Anne Waterman, Carolyn Clayton a
 PASS-Ruth N. (nee Pinski). On Monday, February 18, 2002, currently of Silver Spring, Maryland, formerly of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Pass; devoted mother of Harry (Virginia) Pass of Silver Spring, Maryland, and the late Joel Pass; loving grandmother of Jason Pass of Ne
 SCHWARTZ-Edna. On February 23, 2002. The founder of Belvoir Terrace, a Fine and Performing Arts Camp for girls in Lenox, Massachusetts died in her 91st year. Edna, beloved mother of Nancy Goldberg and Eleanor Lupo, enjoyed her four grandchildren, Laura Goldberg, Diane Marcus, Richard Grossm
 WEINBERG-Audrey Ruth. 69. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, died of natural causes after a valant struggle with heart disease. Born in Larchmont, Audrey raised her family in Greenwich, CT, moving to FL in later life, but always returning home to Greenwich where she maintained an apartme
 GREGORY-Anne Elizabeth. 65, of Manhattan and Southampton, died February 24 after a long battle with lung cancer. She had a distinguished career as a financial editor and investment manager in New York and was one of the first women to rise to vice president at Merrill Lynch. Born in Leaming
 HOWLAND - Jane Murdoch. Passed away peacefully at Mary Manning Walsh on February 23, 2002. Loving mother of Louisa Howland Miller and Grafton Dulany Howland and grandmother of Kate Howland Miller. Her daughter Kathy Murdoch Howland predeceased her. In her youth, she organized the Dolphin Da
 KESSLER-Martha Myiofis. Devoted wife of the late Irving. Cherished mother of Sue Feld and Margaret Danson. Dear motherin-law of Stuart Feld and Stephen Danson. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, Peter, Christopher, and Melissa. Mourned by her sister Celia Gordon, niece and nephew, grand-niece
 RAEBECK-Doris O. 76, of Naples, FL, passed away Saturday, February 23, 2002. Formerly of Bronxville, NY, she had been a resident of Naples for six years. She graduated from the High School of Music and Arts in NYC in 1943 and from Hunter College in 1947. She was a member of the Reformed Chu
 SCHWARTZ-Edna. On February 23, 2002. The founder of Belvoir Terrace, a Fine and Performing Arts Camp for girls in Lenox, Massachusetts died in her 91st year. Edna, beloved mother of Nancy Goldberg and Eleanor Lupo, enjoyed her four grandchildren, Laura Goldberg, Diane Marcus, Richard Grossm
 CYMROT-Frieda. On February 24, 2002. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. She will be greatly missed.       
 FITZPATRICK-Nancy. Tudor City Greens records with sorrow the loss of their president, Nancy Sue Elizabeth Marie Fitzpatrick, on Sunday, February 24. Nancy, a member of the Greens' Board of Directors since 1988, served as their president for the past 12 years. She was responsible for the tra
 MARSHALL-Florence N., M.D. The Department of Pediatrics at New York-Presbyterian HospitalWeill Cornell Medical Center is deeply saddened by the death of Florence N. Marshall, M.D. Dr. Marshall was a member of the Department for over 40 years and was respected and beloved by generations of p
 RAPOPORT - Florence, nee Rosenberg. Of West Hartford, CT, formerly of Great Neck, on February 23, at age 81. She leaves a loving husband, Carl Rapoport; two sons, Mark & Miles Rapoport; two daughters - in - law, Jane Hughes & Sam (Sandra) Luciano; and four grandchildren, Robert, Alison, Jef
 ROSOW-Muriel, 78. Died on February 24, 2002. A loving mother and grandmother, Muriel is survived by her two sons, Bob Lyons and Bruce Rosow, and her four grandchildren, Sam, Lily, Daniel and Bernard. Graveside services today, 2PM, Mt. Ararat Cemetery, E. Farmingdale, NY. Donations can be ma
 THOMPSON-Julia Macy. Died peacefully at her Moss Cottage near Middleburg, VA, February 20, 2002. Beloved mother of Cary Nicholas (deceased) and Dick Macy Potter (deceased), Charles Henschel, Julia Dick, and Francis Thornton Thieriot, grandmother of Cary Nicholas, Jr., Christopher Kingsland,
 YELLOW ROBE-Rosebud. Remembering Rosebud On Her 95th The Birthday Club Marjorie Weinberg, Presiden       
 Elisabeth Luce Moore, who was active in many philanthropic and educational organizations, died on Feb. 9 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 98. She was a sister of the publisher Henry R. Luce, who died in 1967. Mrs. Moore retired in 1999 after 63 years 
 BUDICK-Max. Congregation Orach Chaim expresses its heartfelt condolences to our devoted member, Debbie and (Henry) Sheinkopf on the loss of her beloved father. May she and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi James Lassner, 
 CORSINI-Cristina. Died Feb. 26 after a brief illness. Survived by her husband, Lawrence Weppler, her mother, Ruth Saladrigas, her children, Benedetta Corsini, Lorenzo Corsini, Keith Weppler, Courtney and John Hammerton, her sister & brother-in-law, Cecilia and Ronald Shiftan, her niece and 
 FREEMAN-Mary Ann. February 14th, 2002. Beloved daughter of Bernard (Barney) Martin and Catherine Martin, devoted sister of Donald Martin, Penny Misiak, and Lucas Van Eyk. Loving aunt of Carol Read. She was an Account Executive at Infinity Broadcasting. She will be deeply missed by all who k
 HUGHES-Katherine V. On February 24, 2002. Katherine leaves behind her cousins, their families and her friends. Retired Senior Vice President of Dancer Fitzgerald & Sample Advertising Co. Visitation will be held Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at Weigand Bros Funeral Home, 49 Hillside Ave., Willis
 ROSEN-Dorothy. Died peacefully on February 26th in Bal Harbour, FL. at 84 years old. She was the wife of the late Leonard Rosen, devoted mother of Linda and Howard Sterling, Ronnie Rosen & Sandy Raymond, grandmother to eight wonderful grandchildren and seventeen great-grandchildren. Devoted
 VINTON-Jean R. Died peacefully February 24, 2002 at her home in Lexington, MA, aged ninety-one. Vassar graduate, beloved wife of the late Alfred M. Vinton. She lived a life of service to family, church and community. Survived by sister Frances Baikow, Miami, FL; children, Alfred Jr. of Lond
 CORSINI-Cristina. Died Feb. 26 after a brief illness. Survived by her husband, Lawrence Weppler, her mother, Ruth Saladrigas, her children, Benedetta Corsini, Lorenzo Corsini, Keith Weppler, Courtney and John Hammerton, her sister & brother-in-law, Cecilia and Ronald Shiftan, her niece and 
 GOLDSTINE-Marcy. Unexpectedly and too soon on Feb. 25, 2002. Loving wife of Robert Mongioi, cherished daughter of Jerome and Fredricka, devoted stepmother of Adam and Mathew, dear sister of Susan and Bob, favorite aunt of Samantha, Ryan and Steven. Her historic accomplishments include: bein
 GRIFFITHS-Ruth Baker Baines, 99. Died Tuesday, Feb. 26, 2002 at her home in Farmington, CT. Born October 17, 1902 on her grandparents' farm in Leyden, MA, she was the daughter of Ellen Budington Baines-Griffiths and David Baines-Griffiths and sister of the late Hugh Budington Griffiths and 
 THOMPSON-Julia Macy. Died peacefully at her Moss Cottage near Middleburg, VA, February 20, 2002. Beloved mother of Cary Nicholas (deceased) and Dick Macy Potter (deceased), Charles Henschel, Julia Dick, and Francis Thornton Thieriot, grandmother of Cary Nicholas, Jr., Christopher Kingsland,
 VINTON-Jean R. Died peacefully February 24, 2002 at her home in Lexington, MA, aged ninety-one. Vassar graduate, beloved wife of the late Alfred M. Vinton. She lived a life of service to family, church and community. Survived by sister Frances Baikow, Miami, FL; children, Alfred Jr. of Lond
