 Alice Sachs, a retired Commissioner of Elections for Manhattan and an abiding presence in Democratic reform politics, died on Saturday at the Hallmark Nursing Centre in North Granville, N.Y. She was 91 and had lived for many years at the Barbizon Hotel on the Upper East Side. Miss S
 Mildred Custin, who built Bonwit Teller into a leading fashion force in the late 1960's by introducing designers such as Pierre Cardin, Andre Courreges, Emanuel Ungaro and Calvin Klein to the American public, died Thursday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 91. As president and
 BAKER-Sheila Dineen. OPEIU Local 153, AFL-CIO, mourns the loss of Sheila Dineen Baker, 78, who died Friday, March 28, at her home in Asbury Park, NJ. Sheila was our leader and friend. She was the first female President of Local 153-a local union of 20,000 members-in its 50-year history. Lon
 BERKOWE-Christine (nee Bresson), of Croton-on-Hudson on March 30, 1997. Professor Emeritus of French Literature. Survived by her husband Leonard, one son Marc, two sisters, one brother and two grandchildren. Visting hours Friday, 7-9 PM, at the Chapel of the Good Shepherd (Holy Name of Mary
 DENNIS-Faith. Of Essex, CT. 104 years. A splendid lady, with looks and conduct to match. She served as an exemplar who will be missed by her former colleagues and friends. James Parker, Jessie McNab, Clare LeCorbeiller, Olga Raggio       
 FLAHERTY-Rosamond A. (nee Quinn). On March 31, 1997. Devoted wife to her late husband Bernard F., beloved mother of Bernard J., Ann W. Brunning and Mary R. Williams. To the end she was an inspiration and a teacher who will be remembered with love and affection. Friends may call at Williams 
 KAUDERER-Ida, 90, of PA, formerly of NYC, died March 30 at home. Born in Poland, daughter of the late Jacob and Sarah Margoles, wife of the late John Kauderer. A graduate of Belview School of Nursing, she was an RN in several hospitals in NYC, and a charter member of Riverside Church in NYC
 MICHAELIS-Helene (nee Leibel). 3/30/'97. Loving wife of Henry. Dear mother and mother-in-law of Laurie and Leon Klempner and Rob and Teresa Michaelis and adored grandmother of Amy, Lisa and Jodi Klempner. Services at noon Tuesday at The Reformed Temple of Forest Hills, Queens, New York. She
 NOYES-Rosita T. On March 30, 1997. Wife of the late Julius W. Noyes, mother of Jose W. Noyes and the late Julio T. Noyes, Marie Rose Murray and Irene Bassett. Grandmother of Rosita Caulfield, Juliana McLaughlin, Christina Reynolds, Suzanne Roemer, William Noyes, Jose Noyes, Jr. and Prentiss
 SACHS-Alice, age 91, died at Hallmark Nursing Centre in North Granville, NY on Saturday, March 29, 1997. Miss Sachs was born Dec. 18, 1905 in Kansas City, MO., the daughter of Charles and Flora (Weil) Sachs. Survivors include her brother, Robert Sachs of West Granville, NY and one nephew, C
 SHULMAN-Rebecca. On March 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Mark and the late Paul. Cherished grandmother of David, Judy, Jonathan, Rebecca, Diane, Alice, David and the late Herman. Great grandmother of Mor, Roni, Ben, Gal, Assaf, Yaniv, Oded, Shir, Robyn, Andrew, 
 ZOGRAFOS-Amy Adrienne. Loving daughter, granddaughter, niece, cousin and friend. Lived twenty beautiful years, passed on Saturday, March 29. We love you. Linda and George Zografos, Blanche Allen, Karen, Kenny and Chris Schachter. Services today 1:30 PM at Boulevard Chapels, Broadway, Hewlet
 Nancy J. Woodhull, the first managing editor for news at USA Today and a champion of women and diversity in the newsroom and in news coverage, died yesterday at her home in Pittsford, N.Y., near Rochester. She was 52. The cause of death was cancer, said Gene Policinski, a special as
 ALPERT-Anne. Passed away March 30. Pajarito, the name bestowed on her by her first husband Matta, the father of two sons Gordon Matta-Clarke and SebastianMatta both deceased, will be sorely missed by her friends and family. She was an extraordinary gracious and loving lady. Memorial service
 de LARA-Jonne Elizabeth Stewart Claflin Low. Died on March 29, in New Canaan, Conn., after a long illness. Devoted wife of Juan Jacobo de Lara and mother of Julian de Lara (died in 1960) and Angela Dulce de Lara of Fairfield, Conn. Private memorial service held on April 2 at her home, with 
 FLAHERTY-Rosamond A. (nee Quinn). On March 31, 1997. Devoted wife to her late husband Bernard F., beloved mother of Bernard J., Ann W. Brunning and Mary R. Williams. To the end she was an inspiration and a teacher who will be remembered with love and affection. Friends may call at Williams 
 MORGAN - BRENNER - Elizabeth R., Dr. Born in Roumania 1907. Died on March 31, 1997 after a long illness. She was educated in prestigious unversities in France, Switzerland and the United States. She was known to support many charities in the United States and Israel. Beloved by her late hus
 NOYES-Rosita T. On March 30, 1997. Wife of the late Julius W. Noyes, mother of Jose W. Noyes and the late Julio T. Noyes, Marie Rose Murray and Irene Bassett. Grandmother of Rosita Caulfield, Juliana McLaughlin, Christina Reynolds, Suzanne Roemer, William Noyes, Jose Noyes, Jr. and Prentiss
 SACHS-Alice. A force for Reform Democratic politics in New York City for nearly half a century, Alice Sachs was one of the founders of the Lexington Democratic Club. She became its first female District Leader in 1953, later served as its State Committeewoman and twice was its candidate for
 Pupul Jayakar, who became known as India's ''czarina of culture'' when she melded her passion for Indian arts and handicrafts with a close and influential friendship with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, died on Friday at her home in Bombay, Indian press reports said. She was 81. As a 
 Eugenie M. Anderson, who in 1949 became the first woman appointed a United States Ambassador, died on Monday at her home in Red Wing, Minn. She was 87. Mrs. Anderson had been active in the Democratic Party on the state and national levels when she was appointed Ambassador to Denmark
 DASSIN-Miriam. The administration, staff and associates of Charles H. Greenthal Residential Sales, Corp. and the entire West Group of Companies, mourns the untimely loss of our dear colleague and friend. Miriam was a kind and gentle person who enriched our lives and the lives of her many cl
 LAVINE-Abigail. With profound sorrow we annouce that Abigail Lavine passed away comfortably at her home in NYC on April 1, at the age of 33, following a brief but intense battle with cancer. Adored companion and wife of Scott Konzelmann. Daughter of Frank and Katharine of Medford, MA. She w
 NOYES-Rosita T. On March 30, 1997. Wife of the late Julius W. Noyes, mother of Jose W. Noyes and the late Julio T. Noyes, Marie Rose Murray and Irene Bassett. Grandmother of Rosita Caulfield, Juliana McLaughlin, Christina Reynolds, Suzanne Roemer, William Noyes, Jose Noyes, Jr. and Prentiss
 SACHS-Alice, was a doughty warrior for justice. She was a founder of Americans for Democratic Action, a national vice-president and active member of New York City ADA. We miss her passion, her political acumen, her humor and her editing skills. Amy Isaacs, ADA National Director Marvin Rich,
 WOODHULL-Nancy J., on April 1, 1997, in Rochester, N.Y. Predeceased by her father, Harold S. Cromwell and sister, Mertie Dorko. She is survived by her husband, William Watson and daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson of Rochester; mother, May Cromwell of Matawan, NJ, nieces and nephews, Christine
 Dr. Ruth Sager, a geneticist who carried out influential research about the location of genetic material in cells, died on Saturday at her home in Brookline, Mass. She was 79. She had cancer of the bladder, said her husband, Dr. Arthur B. Pardee. At her death, Dr. Sager was 
 BACAL-Millicent S. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 GREEN-Bertha K. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of one of its most devoted and distinguished members. She graced our community for decades with her warmth, optimism and love of Judaism. We extend our condolences to her illustrious son, Mr. Morris Green, Honorary Chairman of our Board o
 HOWE-Marion Chait. On April 2, 1997. Devoted and loving sister of Allan Chait, beloved sister-in-law of Jocelyn Chait, adored aunt of Andrew and Steven Chait and Madeleine Brand, caring stepmother of David Howe and her step-grandchildren. Friends may call Saturday evening 7 to 9 PM. Service
 KATZ-Gladys. On April 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Robert Katz and Diane and Edward Ziegman. Adoring grandmother of Aaron and Adam Katz and Alyssa and Sandra Ziegman. Service is today, 12 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions 
 KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane, New York, April 2, 1997. Devoted wife of the late J. Thompson Ruger. Beloved mother of Robert S. and Kimberly R. and the late Harrison S. Kravis. Loving sister of Mrs. Sharon Beckerman. Devoted aunt of Brad and Jordon. Funeral services Friday, 10 AM, at Temple Ema
 LAVINE-Abigail. The New-York Historical Society extends its heartfelt sympathies to the family of Abigail Lavine. Abbey was respected for her excellent help as a reference assistant and loved for her quick wit and free-spirited nature, not to mention her wonderful fashion sense. We miss her
 ROSANELLI-Marie M., of Rye, NY on April 1, 1997. Beloved wife of Gabriel. Loving mother of Gail Endresen and John Rosanelli. Adored grandmother of five. A mass of Christian burial was celebrated Thursday, April 3, at The Church of the Resurrection, Rye, NY. Entombment was held at Greenwood 
 SCALL-Ruth. Wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Phil (Jan and Ed). Loving Nana to Ron (Debbie), Linda (Marc) and four great-grandchildren. To know her was to smile. Service Gutterman's, on Sunday, April 6, at 11:30 A.M., 516-921-5757.       
 WOODHULL-Nancy J., on April 1, 1997, in Rochester, N.Y. Predeceased by her father, Harold S. Cromwell and sister, Mertie Dorko. She is survived by her husband, William Watson and daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson of Rochester; mother, May Cromwell of Matawan, NJ, nieces and nephews, Christine
 Judy Flannery, a late-blooming athlete who became an unlikely triathlon champion, was killed on Wednesday when she was struck by an automobile while on a bicycle-training ride near Poolesville, Md. A resident of Chevy Chase, she was was 57 and had won six American and four world age-group c
 Helene-Diane Shulman Kravis Ruger, an interior designer known professionally as Hedi Kravis, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Ms. Kravis, who maintained homes in Manhattan and Bedford, N.Y., was 49. The cause was cancer, her son, Robert S. Kravis, sai
 BACAL-Millicent S. (nee Ostrow) Beloved wife of the late Irwin. Devoted and beloved mother of Michael. Loving daughter of Paula. Dear sister of Larry. Her loving kindness and caring will never be forgotten. Services Sunday, 12 noon at Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, G
 GALLINA-Freda. On April 3, 1977, of Bronx, NY. Beloved wife of the late Vincent. Loving mother of William and the late Gino. Dear grandmother of Kristin, Lauren, Julianne, Susanne, Allison, James and Andrew. Great grandmother of two. Survived by her sister, Erna Ruepp. Dear aunt of Kathryn 
 HOWE-Marion Chait. On April 2, 1997. Devoted and loving sister of Allan Chait, beloved sister-in-law of Jocelyn Chait, adored aunt of Andrew and Steven Chait and Madeleine Brand, caring stepmother of David Howe and her step-grandchildren. Friends may call Saturday evening 7 to 9 PM. Service
 WESTHEIMER - Manfred. RE'UTH records with profound sorrow the passing of Manfred Westheimer, husband of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Dr. Ruth Westheimer. We extend our deepest sympathy to her and her family. Rosa Strygler, President Ursula Merkin, Chairman WESTHEIMER - Manfre
 WITTEN-Kathleen R., 79, widow of John D. Witten and daughter of Raymond and Regina Rubicam, died at Manatawny Manor, Pottstown, PA. Saturday, March 29. Mrs. Witten, who was born in Philadelphia, was a resident of Bronxville, NY, Portland, CT and West Boothbay Harbor, ME. She was a graduate 
 Rebecca Shulman, who devoted a lifetime to Jewish and Israeli causes, most of all through Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Sunday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 100. She served three terms as national president of the large vol
 GOODHART-Eleanor. 81 years, on April 4. Beloved wife of the late Albert Goodhart. Devoted companion of William Rand. Also survived by many loving relatives and friends. Service today, Sunday April 6, 1 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers contribu
 HOWE-Marion Chait. The Officers, Board and the Members of the National Antique & Art Dealers Association of America, Inc., are deeply saddened by the loss of our long-time member who was a sister of our past President Allan Chait, and aunt of our Secretary Andrew Chait. Gracious in spirit, 
 PINSKY-Marcia Kerr Ostrow. She provided an inspiration and role model in her great strength, loving kindness and gentle compassion. She exuded grace and elegance, yet put everyone at ease. Whenever she appeared, there was a sense that a great lady had entered the room. She added humor and e
 ROSENBAUM-Bess. Congregation Shaaray Tefila in Lawrence, mourns the loss of Bess Rosenbaum, long time esteemed member, past President and past Treasurer of the Sisterhood. Heartfelt condolences to her family. Martin Klein, President David Weinberger, Rabbi Walter Wurzburger, Rabbi Emer.    
 SCALL-Ruth. Wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Phil (Jan) and Ed. Loving Nana to Ron (Debbie), Linda (Marc) and four great-grandchildren. To know her was to smile. Service Gutterman's, on Sunday, April 6, at 11:30 A.M., 516-921-5757.       
 SIEGLER-Florence (nee Sternlieb). Age 87, of Deerfield, IL, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, died in Chicago on Wednesday, April 2, 1997. Preceded in death by her devoted husband Al. Beloved mother of Mark, Michael and Donna Meibach; grandmother of Dillan, Alison, Richard and Jessica Siegler o
 SNAPP-Bette (Elizabeth). On April 4, 1997 in Glen Cove, LI. Wife of Robert Pryor, mother of Shannon and Ben Pryor. Also survived by sister Shannon Snapp Natale and mother Auntrenette Snapp Wills. Visting hours 3-5 and 7-9pm, Sat & Sun. at McLaughlin Kramer Funeral Home, 220 Glen St, Glen Co
 TOLMACH-Hazel Mitchell, R.N., beloved wife of the late Dr. Jesse Tolmach, died on March 26, 1997. She was a dedicated, loving mother and grandmother. Anyone who knew her can only remember her as a generous and kind friend. She will be deeply missed by all whose lives she touched. Mrs. Tolma
 WESTHEIMER - Manfred. The New York University Press extends its deepest sympathies and sincere condolences to our very good friend Dr. Ruth Westheimer and the entire family on the loss of her beloved husband, Fred. We are all thinking of you.       
 WOODHULL-Nancy J. The Journalism and Women Symposium mourns the loss of a valued member, a model for courage in action. Her spirit of sisterhood will not soon be replaced.       
 BLOSVERN-Ellen Jane. An NYC teacher, succumbed Saturday, April 5. She was 50 years old. Her parents, Monroe and Miriam Blosvern, brother Peter and daughter Robin survive her. Burial will be at the Mt. Mariah Cemetery in Fairview, NJ, following services at the Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th
 CARROAD-Gunhilde (Revheim), 88. Of West Hartford, widow of Kenneth Carroad, died Friday (April 4, 1997) at the McAuley, West Hartford. She lived in New York City for most of her life before moving to West Hartford in 1987. She was a graduate of New York University and New York University Sc
 FREIBERGER-Margaret Flora Forsyth. Age 84, of Holmes Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died March 29, in Bradenton, FL. She was a retired office manager fo the Ruben H. Donnelly Co. Widow of Edward Freiberger. She is survived by a son, Peter of Santa Monica, CA., and daughters Jeanne T. 
 KAIN-Estelle. A sweet, kind and endearing woman. Though our friendship was so short, she will live in our hearts forever. Jean and Harold Kaufman       
 MARCUS-Helen. Of Fort Lauderdale, passed away peacefully on Sunday, April 6, 1997. Mrs. Marcus made her home here for the past 22 years, coming from Teaneck, NJ. A devoted wife of the late Herbert Marcus, M.D., she was a beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, sister and friend. ''A
 SNAPP-Bette (Elizabeth). On April 4, 1997 in Glen Cove, LI. Wife of Robert Pryor, mother of Shannon and Ben Pryor. Also survived by sister Shannon Snapp Natale and mother Auntrenette Snapp Wills. Visting hours 3-5 and 7-9pm, Sat & Sun. at McLaughlin Kramer Funeral Home, 220 Glen St, Glen Co
 SORSCHER-Jennie. Young Israel of Flatbush Chevera Kadisha expresses its condolence and sorrow to her family. She was a Founder of its Women's Division, a true worker, everybody's friend, and loved by all. Dudley Feit, Founder Gabbi Emeritus Sam Wietschner, Gabbi       
 Mary Dewart Gleason, whose family owned The New York Sun from 1926 until 1950, died of liver failure yesterday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland, her daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar, said. She was 81 and a longtime resident of Portland. Mrs. Gleason's father, William T. Dewart, 
 ALBERIO deCELLARIO-Raquel. Of New York City & Buenos Aires. On April 5, 1997, on the eve of her 81st year. Loving wife of the late Alberto Cellario and devoted mother of Raquel, Maria Ines and Maria Rosa and their husbands, Humberto, Anthony, and Vincent. Beloved grandmother and great grand
 GOLD-Morris A. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the father of our esteemed member, Barbara Strudler, and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 KANTROWITZ-Viola D. On April 5, 1997. Wife of Dr. Sidney J. Kantrowitz. Mother of Lucy Frank and her husband Peter. Grandmother of Michael. Memorial service to be announced.       
 LEICHTER-Elsa. On April 5, 1997 in her 92nd year, leaving behind many friends and a large family grateful for having been part of her remarkable life and recipients of her love. Survived by Henry, Franz, Hope, Fred, Jennifer, Willie, Helene, James, Kathy, Joshua and Dana Leichter and five g
 MOSBACHER-Rose Neumann, on April 5, 1997, in her 98th year. Beloved widow of Dr. Emil Mosbacher. She was born in Wurzburg, Germany and emigrated with her family to the U.S. in 1938. She is survived by her loving daughter and son-in-law, Marianne and Peter Flack, two granddaughters, Stephani
 WALTON-Jean. Loving, wonderful wife of Samuel, cherished and much loved mother of Carolyn and Stanley Fried, Susan and Steven Tomback, Diane and Stuart Walton, Janice and Robert Genser. Proud, devoted grandmother of Robin and Andrew Fried, Jessica, David and Alyssa Tomback, Joshua Walton, a
 Elizabeth Snapp, a publicity agent who worked primarily with composers and new-music ensembles, died on Friday at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. She was 50 and lived in Glen Cove. The cause was cancer, said Carol Yaple, a friend. Ms. Snapp began her career in the 19
 Helen Bernstein, a former president of the Los Angeles teachers union known for her forceful style and dogged support of higher standards for students and a decentralized administration, died here Thursday night. She was 52 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Bernstein was hit by a car as
 BALL-Sonia. On April 8, 1997. Beloved wife of Jacob (deceased), devoted mother of Martin (deceased) and Ina, and Arthur. Cherished grandmother of Stuart and Melinda, Steven and Sharon. Proud great-grandmother of Lauren, Andrew, Marissa, Matthew and Danielle. Loving sister to Celia DeSaretz 
 BOGATY-Dr. Nina L., on April 7, 1997, age 42. Adoring mother to Gabrielle. Devoted daughter to Greta and Dr. Sidney Lipton. Loving sister to Paul and Joan Bogaty, Lynn and Sidney Levitsky, and Barbara and Tom Chargaff. Caring aunt to Lindsay, Jonathan, Shari and Jennifer. Dear cousin to Ken
 BONDAR-Anita, 64, beloved wife of Ralph. Caring mother of Willie and Milton. Devoted grandmother of Matthew and Ryan. Services Thursday, April 10 at Parkside Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue. She will always remain in our house.       
 GORMAN-Muriel, my deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Jack and to the bereaved family. Edna Solomon       
 GRUBER-Selma Salinger. On April 8, 1997. A warm, wise and gentle woman. Her youthful, vital spirit touched so many. A true gourmet who loved to bring people together in celebration. A wonderful and loving mother of Julia and Jessica. Devoted, caring wife of the late Manny Gruber. A special 
 WALTON-Jean. We mourn the death of Jean Walton, the matriarch of the Walton family. We will continue to uphold the high values and integrity that she cherished. Please send contributions to the Walton Foundation for Leukemia/Lymphoma/Myeloma, C/O Dr. Steven Allen, North Shore University Hos
 Laura Nyro, the New York-born singer and songwriter whose impassioned, iconoclastic music exploded pop song conventions in a feverish search for emotional truth, died on Tuesday at her home in Danbury, Conn. She was 49. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Elizabeth Rush, her business
 BOGATY-Nina. Ph.D. We offer our deepest sympathy to her family. All of those whose lives she touched-her family, friends, teachers, supervisors, students, patients and fellow colleagues in the psychoanalytic community-will sorely miss her. Her bright, warm, and vibrant presence as a dear fr
 BONDAR-Anita, 64, beloved wife of Ralph. Caring mother of Willie and Milton. Devoted grandmother of Matthew and Ryan. Beloved sister of Dr. Shuman. Services Thursday, April 10 at Parkside Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue. She will always remain in our heart.       
 GRUBER-Selma. Our friendship with Selma was a long and treasured one. A woman of valor, Selma will always be remembered for her eloquence, humor, dignity, compassion and integrity. Deepest sympathy to her family and to her devoted children Julia and Larry Horowitz and Jessica and Hunter Mil
 PETRIE-Thelma DeVries, 81, of Pinehurst, N.C., and Quogue, New York, on April 5th in Pinehurst. Everyone who knew her will remember her as a loving, generous and kind friend. She will be deeply missed by all whose lives she touched. We would all hope to live by her example and her motto tha
 REISSER-Elisabeth. On April 5, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Otto Reisser. Service Friday, April 11, 8:30AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the NYU College of Dentistry or the NYU Medical Center Child Life Endowment Fund.
 VITULLI-Carole Jan (nee Pollack). Age 42. On March 30, 1997 in Coral Springs, FL. Formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved mother of Angela. Daughter of Dorothy Belle and Sidney Pollack. Sister of Joy Montgomery, Bill and Alison Pollack. Memorial service on Saturday, April 12th, 2:00 P.M., at First
 Helene Hanff, whose wittily acerbic 20-year correspondence with a London bookseller she never met won her a passionate following after it was published as the epistolary memoir ''84, Charing Cross Road,'' died on Wednesday at the De Witt Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 80. Up to 
 BOGATY-Nina. The entire community of the New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis is deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Nina Bogaty, a candidate in our program. We express our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. Alvin
 GRUBIN-Blanche Dultz. South Orange, NJ, April 4. Loving wife of Harold, mother of John and Sharon, grandmother of Andrew. We cherish her forever and ever.       
 HANFF-Helene. On April 9, 1997. Noted author. She will be missed by family, friends and fans. Private service. Contributions to Authors League Fund, 330 West 42 Street, New York City 10036.       
 KIPNES-Ellen. The Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of the Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Ellen Kipnes, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Robert, her son Stuart and daughter Staci. Joel Simon, President Thea Capazzi President Womens Group 
 ROSEN-Ruth. 83. Loving mother, grandmother, great grandmother, sister and aunt. She was loved by all and loved all. She set wonderful examples for us to follow. Her legacy of loving kindness and caring will be with us forever.       
 GINSBERG-Elaine, died April 7, in Encino, CA. Survived by her dear brother Dr. Gerald AAronson of Brookline, MA.       
 GREENE-Janet C. Mrs. Stephen (Janet) Greene died peacefully April 10 at home. Writer, editor, co-owner of Stephen Greene Publishing. She leaves her daughters Jennifer Greene and Stephanie Greene Brooks, grandchildren Isaac & Graham Brooks. Funeral April 14 at St. Mary's In The Mountains Epi
 HOPKINS-Anna F. The Board of Directors of The Grand Street Settlement deeply regrets the loss of our former Executive Director, and extends our deepest sympathies to her mother, Rosie Hopkins, and to her sister, Virginia Hopkins-Hayes. For nineteen years, Anna provided dedicated commitment 
 LaVIGNA-Dina. Age 33, Thursday, April 10, 1997. Adored bride of Jeff Schmitt. Loving mother of Zachary. Cherished daughter of Gary and Brenda. Precious sister to Bill, David, Ayndrea and Grant. Beloved granddaughter of Carlota Pires & Betty Jossen. A big jewel in a little package, you lived
 LIPELES-Pauline, April 11, 1997. Beloved widow of David Lipeles, mother of Maxine, Ramie and Bonnie, grandmother of Rachel, Evan, Joshua, Lexi, Benjamin and Noah, sister of Marvin Cooper, and fiancee of Allen Post. Services Sunday, April 13, 12 noon, Sunset Chapel, 1285 Northern Boulevard, 
 PAUL-Gladys. We mourn the loss of our cherished member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 RENICK-Sylvia. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Eileen Putterman, President       
 ROSE-Marilyn. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Eileen Putterman, President       
 Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, L.I. She was 92 and also had a home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Born Dorothy Stecker in Philadelphia in 1905, Mrs. Norman grew up in a wel
 Hedwig G. Sulzle, who with her husband started a workshop atop a garage in central New York State in 1945 and built it into the world's largest independent manufacturer of surgical needles, died on Monday at her home in Syracuse. She was 97. She was the co-founder and for many years
 CARREAU-Margaret E., of Oxford, MD. A musician and composer of nine published songs, was associated with Irving Berlin's Music Box Revue and later accompanied John Charles Thomas and Grace Moore. Died peacefully at 98 on April 4, 1997 in Easton. Beloved wife of Robert, caring mother of Patr
 CHOLODENK-Bertha (nee Shimkin). On September 4, 1996 at home. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jack Cholodenk, sister of the late Dr. Irving Shimkin, Leon Shimkin, Mary Kunitz, Rose Danziger and Nathan Shimkin. She is survived by several nieces and nephews. Interment was at New Montefiore Cemet
 DORIN-Miriam Heidecorn. April 6, 1997. Devoted mother of Arlene & David. Resided in Palm Beach, Fl., and N.Y. A great devotee to the arts. Her caring and help for others was unique in our world. She will be greatly missed by many.       
 KANE-Valeria E. Of Fresh Meadows, NY, on April 10. Born Jersey City. Graduated Notre Dame College, Staten Island. Attended Fordham University School of Social Work. Retired Director of Social Services, Flushing Hospital Medical Center. Member American Cancer Society, Queens Division. Surviv
 KANTROWITZ-Viola D. On April 5, 1997. Wife of Dr. Sidney J. Kantrowitz. Mother of Lucy Frank and her husband Peter. Grandmother of Michael. Memorial service to be announced.       
 LaVIGNA-Dina. The Jeffrey Modell Foundation expresses its profound sorrow at the loss of our dear and precious friend, Dina. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband Jeffrey, son Zachary, parents and family. Vicki and Fred Modell Co-Founders The Jeffrey Modell Foundation       
 ROSE-Marilyn J. Beloved wife of Jules, devoted mother of Patti and Mark Mandel, Mitchell and Marci Rose, Randi and Todd Kaplan. Dear daughter of Sally Sloan and sister of Phyllis Karsch, adored grandmother of Marissa, Meredith, Natalie, Melanie and Molly. She gave us so much love that will 
 YARDLEY-Augusta DuVal of Darien, CT on April 10, 1997. Wife of the late Alfred J. Yardley. Mother of Mrs. Robert H. (Pamela) Paul, III. Pre-deceased by her son Alfred J. Yardley, Jr. Sister of Phillip L.R. DuVal and Clive L. DuVal, II. Grandmother of five. Greatgrandmother of two. Private g
 ZAPHIRIS-Dr. Phyllis Wilens, on April 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Peter. She was a special person and will be profoundly missed by her family, her friends and colleagues. We will cherish her memory forever. A well-loved teacher and administrator in the Glen Cove school district for many years
 Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I. She was 92 and also had a home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Born Dorothy Stecker in Philadelphia in 1905, Mrs. Norman grew up in a well
 KANE-Valeria E. Of Fresh Meadows, NY, on April 10. Born Jersey City. Graduated Notre Dame College, Staten Island. Attended Fordham University School of Social Work. Retired Director of Social Services, Flushing Hospital Medical Center. Member American Cancer Society, Queens Division. Surviv
 MIZRACHY-Julia. With grieving hearts, we share the loss of our beloved aunt with her loving sons Jossie, Ben and family. Her devotiion, brilliance, beauty, humor and kindness will be deeply missed. Osnass and Joe Shein and family       
 YARDLEY-Augusta DuVal of Darien, CT on April 10, 1997. Wife of the late Alfred J. Yardley. Mother of Mrs. Robert H. (Pamela) Paul, III. Pre-deceased by her son Alfred J. Yardley, Jr. Sister of Phillip L.R. DuVal and Clive L. DuVal, II. Grandmother of five. Greatgrandmother of two. Private g
 BRYAN-Katherine. Passed 3/21/ 97, in Birmingham, AL. Resident in NYC area for 45 years, internationally acclaimed operatic singer, commercial real estate appraiser, former President of the Third Street Music School in Manhattan. She is so very much loved and missed by family members and fri
 CHASE-Cynthia Pierce on April 13, 1997 of post polio syndrome. A scientist successful in spite of severe polio myelitis with a PhD in Microbiology from Yale University. She worked at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research from 1946 through 1964 in tuberculosis research. She is survi
 DEGENER-Mrs. Fred A., 89, of 315 Wells Hill Rd., died April 7, 1997 at the Sharon Health Care Center in Sharon, CT. She was the wife of the late Fred A. Degener. She was born on June 8th, 1907 in Berlin, Germany. She is survived by her nephews Kurt and his wife Ingrid Degener of Hickory, N.
 EASLEY-Virginia. We will never forget how this grand lady welcomed our sister Constance into her heart and family. Our deepest sympathies to her husband Ed and wonderful sons Bob and Tom. We will miss her and never forget her. Louise Lynch Galleshaw and Eileen Lynch Hawkins & families      
 FERRY-Harriet (Butts), 81, of Yarmouth Port, MA, formerly of New York City, died at Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, MA on April 12. Wife of the late Robert R. Ferry. Mother of Sebern F. Fisher of Cummington, MA; sister of William Butts of Pullman, WA., and Phillis Garber of Morgan City, LA. Als
 HEALY-Nora A., 90, died Wednesday, April 9, 1997, in Palm Coast, FL., after a long illness. She lived in Tudor City for almost 50 years before moving to Florida. A legal secretary, she worked on the Nuremberg Trials in Germany after World War II. She was partner in a medical reporting agenc
 KARP-Beatrice. Wife of the late Benjamin. Beloved mother of Marshall, Jody, and Harold. Dear sister of Pearl Diamond, and Irving Ziffer. Cherished mother-inlaw of Emily, Debbie, and Wendy. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Sarah, Ben, John, Sophie, and Lily. Much loved aunt. Mrs. Karp leaves fam
 LEIBOWITZ - Nechama. We mourn the loss of a revered Torah scholar and teacher of teachers. She broke new ground in Bible study that impacted students worldwide. She taught the true meaning of love for the Land of Israel, the Jewish People, each individual member, and the Torah that guided h
 LEIBOWITZ-Nehama. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun & Ramaz School mourn the passing in Jerusalem of the peerless Bible teacher of our generation. Tens of thousands of students, including our own, have been enriched by her knowledge, wisdom and methodology. She left no one to sit shiva for her
 NORMAN-Dorothy S. On April 12, 1997, East Hampton, NY, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Nancy N. Lassalle and Andrew E. Norman; loving grandmother of Honor, Abigail, Sarah, Diana, Margaret, Philip, Rebecca; and greatgrandmother of Carter, Anna, David, Colin, Erika, Aden. A memorial g
 SHARP-Evelyn. On April 13, 1997. The family mourns the death of their mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Friends will be received at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, N.Y. from 7-9 PM today, Tuesday, April 15th. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, donati
 TARTAKOWSKI-Celia, formerly of Paris, France on April 13, 1997 in her 90th year died peacefully at home after a long illnes. Founder and President of Pioneer Women/ NA'Amat in Paris for 20 years, she pursued her life long dedication to the Jewish community and Israel as a leader with NA'Ama
 GARILLI-Anne. To celebrate the life of Anne Garilli, who passed away on March 27, 1997, a memorial gathering will be held at The New York Design Center, 200 Lexington Avenue, NY at 5PM on Wednesday, April 16th. Her professional career began in 1960 at Mademoiselle magazine as mail order edi
 Carol Botwin, the author and social critic whose lively and exhaustive writings on sex and infidelity made her one of the leading sexologists of her generation, died yesterday at her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 68. The cause was cancer, said Wilfred Koplow
 Evelyn Sharp, a New York businesswoman, investor and philanthropist and the head of a hotelier family that owned and managed some of the country's best-known properties, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. A native of Manh
 BOTWIN-Carol. Greatly loved and loving mother of son William and daughter Alexandra, sister of Lillian Katell and companion of Bill Koplowitz on April 15, of cancer. Educated at New York & Columbia Universities, she was a recognized authority on sexuality and male-female relationships. Duri
 CHASE-Cynthia Pierce on April 13, 1997 of post polio syndrome. A scientist successful in spite of severe polio myelitis with a PhD in Microbiology from Yale University. She worked at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research from 1946 through 1964 in tuberculosis research. She is survi
 EASLEY-Virginia. We will never forget how this grand lady welcomed our sister Constance into her heart and family. Our deepest sympathies to her husband Ed and wonderful sons Bob and Tom. We will miss her and never forget her. Louise Lynch Galleshaw and Eileen Lynch Hawkins & families      
 FORSCH-Lillian S. Of New York City. April 11, 1997. Widow of Frederick D. Forsch. Sister of William S. Sagar, Jr. and the late Margaret S. Pierpoint. There will be a gathering in her memory at 5PM on May 7th at the Cosmopolitan Club, 122 East 66 Street, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, contribution
 HANTSERIS-Fay on April 15, 1997. Cherished longtime companion of Ros Lipps. Much loved friend of many. She was the bravest and strongest person we ever knew. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, April 16, 2-4, & 7-9PM with service Thurs., 9:45AM
 HAYES-Agnes B. Age 92. On April 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late James V. Devoted mother of Mary-Ann Mumma, James B. and John. Adored grandmother of ten. Dearest great-grandmother of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Wednesday, 6-8PM. Funeral Mass
 HIGGINS-Eleanor G., of Hampton Bays, New York, on April 13, 1997. Predeceased by her husband, Joseph; survived by her brother Thomas M. Farley of Hampton Bays, NY & her sister Anna Beryl Graham of Newport News, VA. Reposing at the J.M. O'Connell Funeral Home, 30 Little Plains Road, Southamp
 MEYERS-Ina S. (nee Szabad). On April 14, 1997, of Haverford, PA, formerly of Mamaroneck, New York. Beloved wife of Harold H. Meyers. Mother of Michael Meyers-Jouan, Paul Meyers and Kim Meyers. Sister of George M. Szabad. Also survived by six grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited 
 NORMAN-Dorothy. The School of American Ballet notes with sadness the death of Dorothy Norman, who committed her considerable talents to 20th Century arts and social activism with great ardor and aplomb. Chairman Albert Bellas, Facility Chairman Peter Martins, and President Curtis Harnack jo
 ROGOFF-Shirley. In her 95th year, died April 12, 1997 at her residence in Virginia Beach, VA. A native of NY, she was the widow of Martin Rogoff. Devoted mother of twins, Jerry and wife Rena of Virginia Beach, VA, and Marvin and wife June, of Boca Raton, FL, and Roslyn Heights, NY. Cherishe
 SHARP-Evelyn. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman of The Board, Howard Solomon, President of The Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet note with sadness the death of Evelyn Sharp. We extend our deepest condolences to our beloved friends, Dir
 THURM-Sara. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend who, with her beloved husband, Leo, was a YU Guardian and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. They established two scholarships in memory of their parents for students graduating from Yeshiva Colle
 CHAIFETZ-Mollie Miller. Died April 14, 1997 at age 91. A student opera singer in her youth, she taught 6th grade in the New York City Schools for thirty years where she produced many musical shows in her school. She was the loving wife of the late Harry Chaifetz and was pre-deceased by her 
 CONVERSE-Jean McElroy, April 12, 1997. Beloved wife of Chandler Bullock Converse. Loving mother of Chandler and Floyd. Devoted grandmother of Chandler, ''Mac,'' and Nicholas. She graduated from The Spence School and attended Smith College. As a teenager Mrs. Converse was a ranked tennis pla
 FORSCH-Lillian S. Of New York City. April 11, 1997. Widow of Frederick D. Forsch. Sister of William S. Sagar, Jr. and the late Margaret S. Pierpoint. There will be a gathering in her memory at 5PM on May 7th at the Cosmopolitan Club, 122 East 66 Street, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, contribution
 HANTSERIS-Fay on April 15, 1997. Cherished longtime companion of Ros Lipps. Much loved friend of many. She was the bravest and strongest person we ever knew. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, April 16, 2-4, & 7-9PM with service Thurs., 9:45AM
 HENZEL-Posie. Founder of Galleria La Serra in the D&D Building in NYC, died April 9. She was known internationally for her watercolor botanicals, a mainstay in her gallery, along with antique european prints. Her spunk, charm and love will be sorely missed in the interior design community a
 MULLICK-Olive Kathleen. The members of the CUNY School of Law Board of Visitors mourn the passing of Olive Mullick, mother of our beloved dean, Kristin Booth Glen. Our thoughts and prayers are with Kris and the members of her family. Seymour Boyers, Chair MULLICK-Olive Kathleen. The
 MULLICK-Olive Kathleen (nee Booth), 83, of Monmouth Beach, NJ, formerly of Pelham Manor, NY, on April 14. Daughter of Harmon and Mary Jane (Musgrave) Booth, wife of Louis Frederick Mullick, she is survived by her daughter, Kristin Booth Glen of New York, her son and daughterin-law Kurt and 
 OSTERWEIL-Joyce (nee Skarbnik), 63, of River Vale, New Jersey, on April 15, 1997. Beloved mother of Marla and mother-inlaw of Geoff Hewitt. Cherished Nana of Brent and Eric of Westfield, New Jersey. Loving sister of Florence Kent, Jack Skarbnik and the late Howard Skarbnik, and adored by he
 SHARP-Evelyn. It is with great sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of Evelyn Sharp. Along with her son Peter Jay Sharp, she was a thoughtful and dedicated supporter of this institution. We extend our deepest sympathy to her dau
 FORSCH-Lillian S. Of New York City. April 11, 1997. Widow of Frederick D. Forsch. Sister of William S. Sagar, Jr. and the late Margaret S. Pierpoint. There will be a gathering in her memory at 5PM on May 7th at the Cosmopolitan Club, 122 East 66 Street, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, contribution
 GOLDFINE-Pauline, of Chestnut Hill, MA. Formerly of Bal Harbour, Florida and NYC. On April 16, 1997 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late William Goldfine, loving & devoted mother of Joyce Walzer and Carol Fain Walters, mother-in-law of Richard A. Walzer, grandmother of Susan, Andrew, and Jan
 IRITANI-Chika A., of New York City and Saugerties, NY on April 15, 1997. Beloved daughter of Amy and the late James Iritani of Rye Brook, NY and devoted sister and sister-in-law of James and Dottie Iritani of Markham, Virginia. She was Assistant Manager, Grants Administration and Operations
 ROTHHOUSE-Lillian. On April 16, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Marvin. Adored mother of Simon and Barbara. Contributions may be made in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 SANCHEZ-Maria del Pilar Castro. Beloved wife of Joseph R. Loving sister of Jose Manuel Castro Rodriguez. Sister-in-law of Isabel Probaos de Castro. Godmother of Manuel Castro Probaos. Niece of Francisca Sanchez, Toribio Castro Muniz and Enrique Castro Muniz. Also survived by many loving cou
 SERCHUK-Janis. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of Janis Serchuk, and we extend our deepest sympathy to her husband David and her children Leon and Richard. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Barry Swidler, Secretary       
 SHARP-Evelyn. The Board of Directors and staff of New York City Opera are saddened by the death of Evelyn Sharp, whose generous support for the arts has greatly enriched New York's cultural life, and whose family has played a vital role at City Opera through its ongoing generosity. Her son,
 Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan. She was about 100 and lived in Manhattan and 
 Mary French Rockefeller, the wife of Laurance S. Rockefeller and for more than four decades active in promoting leadership opportunities for women, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center on Thursday from injuries she suffered in a fall in her Manhattan apartment. She was 86, and a
 MONDSHEIN-Esther Belle. 98-1/2 years young. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Loving mother of Marian Edson, Harriet Dicker and son-in-law Arnold Edson. Adored grandmother of Andrea, Richard, Steven, Jennifer, Donna and Debbie and seven great grandchildren. Former Manager of the Consulate of 
 ROCKEFELLER-Mary French (Mrs. Laurance S.) It is with the deepest sense of loss that The Boards of Overseers and Managers of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mourn the death of the beloved Mary French Rockefeller, wife of our honorary chairman & benefactor, Laurance S. Rockefeller and 
 COHEN-Dora. Of Framingham, MA, formerly of NYC, entered into rest April 19. Dear daughter of the late Jacob and Mary (Heit) Cohen. Loving sister of Esther Horowitz of MA, and Harry Cohen of FL. Graveside services at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY, on Monday, April 21, at 1 PM. Donations in
 ENGLAND-Jacquelin P., of Montpelier, VT. on April 15, 1997 after a successful 17 year fight with breast cancer. She is deeply loved and missed by her husband Sanford, daughter Rachel Castle and father, Herbert Potts.       
 FRIEDMAN-Jeannette. Died April 16, 1997, at age 86, of cancer. Social activist and social worker. Uncompromising fighter for racial equality, peace, freedom and justice. The bravest, kindest person we know. Teacher, confidante, leaving a legacy of love and joy to three generations. She was 
 GOLDRICH-Muriel. On April 19, 1997. Her passing is mourned by loving nieces and nephews and their families. Graveside services Sunday, 11 AM, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY.       
 IRITANI-Chika A., of New York City and Saugerties, NY on April 15, 1997. Beloved daughter of Amy and the late James Iritani of Rye Brook, NY and devoted sister and sister-in-law of James and Dottie Iritani of Markham, Virginia. She was Assistant Manager, Grants Administration and Operations
 JAFFE-Esther. On Thursday, Aoril 17, 1997 of Randolph, MA. Formerly of Oceanside, N.Y. Mother of Judith Churchill of Randolph, MA., and Susan Pober of East Brunswick, N.J. Also survived by three grandchildren. Graveside service today, Sharon Memorial Park, Sharon, MA. Susan Pober will be re
 MORIN-Pauline, 83, Longboat Key, Florida died on April 11, 1997. Beloved wife and mother. In her youth, she was a ballroom dancer. During W.W. II, she was a civilian truck driver. She married Robert Morin, who survives her, and together they operated the Walk, Trot, and Canter Club in Briar
 PEARLMAN-Miriam. On April 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Pearlman. Adored mother of Rosalind and Edward Meyerson, Stephen and Barbara Pearlman. Darling grandmother of Elizabeth and Glen Silverstein, Joseph and Jane Meyerson and Aaron Pearlman. Cherished greatgrandmother of Samant
 PIANA-Mary T., M.D. In Providence, RI, on April 17, 1997. Formerly of Queens and Fort Salonga, NY. Wife of the late G. Emil Piana, M.D. Mother of Monica J. Schaberg, M.D. (Providence, RI) and Diana M. Mariton, M.D. (Paris, France). Mother-in-law of Frank J. Schaberg, Jr., M.D. and Bernard A
 ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, long time friend of the Society, its zoos and aquarium, and beloved wife of the Society's Honorary Trustee and past Chairman, Laurance S. Rocke
 ROSS-Ruth L., of Boca Raton, FL. Cherished wife of the late Theodore, devoted mother of Richard, Carol, and Robert, adored grandmother of Jackie, Lauren, Emily, David, Rebecca, Alex and Rachel. She will always be remembered by her family and many friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions t
 SHARP-Evelyn. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation mourn the loss of Evelyn Sharp. Mrs. Sharp was a devoted and generous patron of the Guggenheim Museum and donor to the collection. She brought a keen eye and discriminating intelligence to the appreciation
 TARSON-Ruth, 78 years old. On April 10 in NYC. Survived by her many loving friends. An actress, comedienne and late blooming writer. She also wrote advertising campaigns for Diener, Hauser and Greenthal. Memorial services will be held at a later date.       
 URICH-Masha. Formerly of Forest Hills, NY, died on April 4th, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Urich, and much loved mother, mother-in-law and grandmother of Heidi Urich, Graeme Fincke and Joshua and Anna Fincke of Cambridge, MA, and sister-in-law and aunt of Esther and Efraim Ben-Isha
 ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, long time friend of the Society, its zoos and aquarium, and beloved wife of the Society's Honorary Trustee and past Chairman, Laurance S. Rocke
 SCHORE-Barbara. On April 19. Beloved wife of George for 57 years. Mother of Allan (Judith) and Cari (Jon) Markell. Grandmother of Beth Schore, David (Suzy) Schore, and Joshua Markell. An adventurous and loving woman. Her devotion and deep concern for family and friends was an inspiration to
 GORDON-Belle (Hecht). Peacefully, as she lived, on 4/19/97, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Ben, loving mother of Richard. Survived by dear sisters Ray Cherr, Ethel Gerstin and Anne Nagourney. Services were held.       
 MARTINI-Lois Cowan, of NYC. Age 89. Died at home April 18, 1997. She was the beloved wife of Roland Martini, Vice President of Gardner Advertising who died in 1966. Born and raised in Sioux Falls, S.D., she received a scholarship and graduated from St. Joseph's College, Emmitsburg, MD in 19
 ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The National Board of the YWCA of the U.S.A. is deeply saddened by the loss of Mary French Rockefeller, National Board member for over twenty years, a member of the Board of Trustees and the World Service Council. She will be remembered for her warmth, commitment an
 TRUEMAN-Eileen, on April 20th, 1997. Wife of Jerry, mother of Jollie and Amy (Bramma) of Cody and Tyler, grandmother of Erin, sister of Celeste and Sy. Adored, cherished and respected by all who knew her. Condolences may be offered at the family home Wednesday through Saturday.       
 WADMOND-Elita Cason, 93, of Palm Beach, Florida, and formerly of New York City, died at her home in Palm Beach on April 18, 1997. She was predeceased by her husband, Lowell Wadmond, a long time senior partner of White and Case. Mrs. Wadmond was born in Lakeland, Florida and attended Souther
 WEINTRAUB-Mildred. Of Long Island, Yonkers and The Bronx. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved mother. Her indomitable spirit, strength and love of family has been an inspiration to all who knew and loved her. A memorial service will be held at the Sinai Chapel, 162-05 Horace Harding 
 WEIS-Marjorie. The Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their long time good friend and extend sincere sympathy to her husband and family. Leonard Danon, President       
 WIGGIN-Rachel (nee Sands). On Friday, April 18, at her home in Alexandria, Virginia. Wife of the late John Wiggin. Mother of Thomas Wiggin. Grandmother of Anna and Eliza Wiggin. Services Wednesday, 12:30 PM, at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Alexandria. Contributions may be made to the Histor
 JABLONSKY-Adelaide, educator, psychologist and artist, died April 16 at North Ridge Medical Center from a cerebral hemorrhage suffered in a fall in her apartment in Pompano Beach, FL. She was five days shy of her 85th birthday. Dr. Jablonsky, Prof. Emeritus at Yeshiva Univ. was Dean of the 
 TRUEMAN-Eileen, on April 20th, 1997. Wife of Jerry, mother of Amy and Jolie, ''Bramma'' of Cody and Tyler, grandmother of Erin, sister of Celeste and Sy. Adored, cherished and respected by all who knew her. Condolences may be offered at the family home Wednesday through Saturday.       
 DUBIN-Beatrice, 76. Of Lake George, New York and Hollywood Florida. Died April 23. Devoted wife of the late Jimmy; beloved mother to Scott and Jane; loving mother-in-law; adoring grandmother to Emily and Julia; dearest sister to Charlotte, Helen and the late Hadassah. NYU Master's, CUNY Pro
 KAPLOWITZ-Martha. On 4/17/97. Beloved mother of Shirley and Renee, devoted sister of Doris, loving grandmother and greatgrandmother. Adored and respected by all who knew her.       
 REISS-Ruth Margaret, 37, of Boston, MA., died on April 22, 1997. Cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for leukemia. Education included Miss Porter's School, Farmington, CT, Amherst College, Amherst, MA, '82, Masters in Education and English, Harvard University. Upon graduat
 WATERBURY-Amy Waldhorn. 4/24/54-6/23/96. Diva of talk, singer in the rain. Sublimely funny. Deftly smart. Never lost her touch. Memorial service 5/17/97. Call Bank St. College of Education: 875-4607       
 BLEYER-Marjorie B. On April 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Bleyer Jr. Devoted mother of Sue Jaffin. Most cherished grandmother of Joanne, Jennifer and Jane. Mother-in-law of L. Donald Jaffin. Services private. In lieu of flowers donations to the charity of your choice would be ap
 DUBIN-Beatrice, 76, of Lake George, NY and Hollywood, FL. Died April 23rd. She brought us together and gave us love. She was our strength. Services Friday, 12:30 P.M., Park Side Memorial Chapel, 718-896-9000. DUBIN-Beatrice. The Principals and staff of Sloate Weisman regret the pass
 REISS-Ruth Margaret, 37, of Boston, MA., died on April 22, 1997. Cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for leukemia. Education included Miss Porter's School, Farmington, CT, Amherst College, Amherst, MA, '82, Masters in Education and English, Harvard University. Upon graduat
 TULLEY-Harriett (nee Weinstein). April 23, 1997. 82 years old. Beloved wife of Louis Tulley, devoted mother of Kate and Ken Iscol. Loving step-mother of Jill Rick and caring mother-in-law of Jill. Adored grandmother of Michael, James and Valerie Hepner and Zachary and Kiva Iscol. Loving sis
 VAIL-Lily, 84. Beloved mother, grandmother, great grandmother, sister and aunt. Adored widow of the late William Vail. Peacefully at her home in Stamford. Services Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer Street, Stamford, CT, 9:30AM, Friday, April 25th. Shiva will be observed Frida
 VANDERRYN-Henriette, S.E. On April 23, 1997, at her home in Great Neck, New York. Beloved wife of the late Herman G. Vanderryn. Mother of Frederika Danziger, Jack Vanderryn, Sim Van der Ryn and Heleen Kurk. Also survived by her nephew, Herman Hartog of the Netherlands, one sister, fourteen 
 BLEYER-Marjorie B. The Women's Auxiliary of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sadness the death of our esteemed Honorary Board Member, Marjorie B. Bleyer, and express deep sympathy to her family. Eve Haberman, President Sivia Brodsky, Rec. Secretary       
 EPSTEIN-Gladys. On April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Adored mother of Janet and Richard Neuberger. Loving grandmother of Mark and Edie Neuberger and Nancy and Michael Kanterman. Special great-grandmother of Margot, Jordan, Matthew and Joshua. Visiting Saturday 7:009:00 PM Riv
 FABER-Dora ''Toby''. Born November 22, 1910, died April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of David. Mother of Stephen and Marilyn. Grandmother of Michelle, Rachel, Alyssa and Jeremy. Sister of Sylvia. An honor student, Toby worked for United Cerebral Palsy and, for many years, the Union of American He
 FOX - Esther. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with deep sorrow the passing of Esther Fox, mother of our esteemed and cherished Vice President and Trustee Nancy Solomon, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Nancy and all her dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, President
 FREEMAN-Dorothy. The members of the American Institute for Psychoanalysis mourns the passing of Dorothy Freeman, wife of the late Nathan Freeman, M.D. who was an esteemed President of the Institute for many years. Mrs. Freeman was a most generous supporter of the Institute in very difficult
 KERESEY-Cornelia Frances, of Houston, passed away, Wednesday, April 23, 1997. She was born November 20, 1928 in New York, New York, to Henry D. and Mary F. Keresey. She was a graduate of Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, NY and a member of the Vassar Club, and also a faithful member of Christ
 MERESMAN-Helen Chafets. On April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of Harry Meresman for 60 years; devoted and cherished mother of Helaine Meresman Barnett and Victor Barnett and Janice Meresman Goldman and Michael Goldman; adored grandmother of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, Melissa Goldm
 STEINIGER-Joan B., 84. On Wednesday, April 23, 1997 at Lenox Hill Hospital, NY City. Beloved wife of the late Edward L. Steiniger and dear mother of the late Dr. Gerald E. Steiniger. A past-Vice President of the Ladies of Charity, NYC and Morality in Media, NYC. Mrs. Steiniger was also a La
 WHEELER-Ann Day. On April 25th, 1997 at her home in Brookline, MA at age 45. Survived by her father Ira B. Wheeler, sister Dorothy W. Bacon, brother Timothy M. Wheeler, friend Michael J. Byrnes, nieces Katharine D. and Sarah H. Bacon, stepmother Mary T. Wheeler and stepbrothers Fletcher H.,
 Nancy Claster, who entertained and educated a generation of children as Miss Nancy, the prototypical teacher on television's ''Romper Room,'' died on Friday at her home in Baltimore. She was 82. Her daughter, Sally Bell, who succeeded her in managing the Romper Room production compa
 AHLGREN-Mildred Carlson, on Wednesday, April 23, 1997 in Washington, DC. Wife of the late Oscar Alexander Ahlgren. Mother of Professor Adrienne A. Haeuser. She is also survived by four grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Memorial services will be held at the National Presbyterian Chu
 FABER-Dora ''Toby''. Born November 22, 1910, died April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of David. Mother of Stephen and Marilyn. Grandmother of Michelle, Rachel, Alyssa and Jeremy. Sister of Sylvia. An honor student, Toby worked for United Cerebral Palsy and, for many years, the Union of American He
 KERESEY-Cornelia Frances, of Houston, passed away, Wednesday, April 23, 1997. She was born November 20, 1928 in New York, New York, to Henry D. and Mary F. Keresey. She was a graduate of Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, NY and a member of the Vassar Club, and also a faithful member of Christ
 LEO-Lucille. On April 25, 1997. Survived by her daughter Laura Mauer and her sister Thelma Warshaw. Services private. For information contact Riverside Memorial Chapels, New York City.       
 MARVIN-Myla Kurcias. Age 71, died April 17, 1997, in Jerusalem. She was much loved by her sister Joan Kurcias Rosenbach and brother-in-law Hans Rosenbach (Chevy Chase, MD). Adoring aunt of Margo Rosenbach and Robert Gottlieb (Chesnut Hill, MA), and Stuart (Uri) and Guila Rosenbach (Jerusale
 MERESMAN-Helen Chafets. On April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of Harry Meresman for 60 years; devoted and cherished mother of Helaine Meresman Barnett and Victor Barnett and Janis Meresman Goldman and Michael Goldman; adored grandmother of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, Melissa Goldma
 RHOADES-Emily Kirk. After years fighting many illnesses, Lee died in Miami, FL on April 17, 1997. Survived by half sister Marianne; nieces and nephews Carol, Michael, Nancy, Mary Helen, Joe, Barbara, Bruce, Bernice and Robert; and beloved friend Stephanie Chen. Her cremains will be laid to 
 WITTFOGEL-Esther S. (Esther S. Goldfrank). Anthropologist, author and editor. At Sarah Neuman Nursing Home, Mamaroneck, N.Y., on April 23, 1997. Twelve days short of her 101st birthday. Widow of Karl A. Wittfogel (1988) and Walter S. Goldfrank (1935). Survived by daughter Susan G. Lennhoff,
 Joan Mosenthal DeWind, a psychiatric social worker, who raised butterflies and was a founding member of the Xerces Society, an international organization devoted to the conservation of butterflies, moths and other invertebrates, died on Sunday at her home in Sherman, Conn. She was 82.      
 BATZAR-Gertrude. Beloved wife of the late Louis Batzar. Devoted mother of Lyn Boland Dosik and the late Howard Batzar. Loving grandmother to Diana Dosik and David and Elayna Batzar. Sister of Doris Saltzberg. Services were held at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, on Sunday, April 27, 1997. Her energy a
 FEIGENSON-Ethel. Age 79, on April 25, 1997. Widow of Abraham. Mother of Dr. Joel (Diane) of CT, Walter (Natasha) of CA. Grandmother of Andrew, Robert, Alex and Greg. Sister of Alfred Schechter of NY. She leaves a legacy of love, wisdom and friendship. Memorial contributions may be made to t
 KERESEY-Cornelia Frances, of Houston, passed away, Wednesday, April 23, 1997. She was born November 20, 1928 in New York, New York, to Henry D. and Mary F. Keresey. She was a graduate of Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, NY and a member of the Vassar Club, and also a faithful member of Christ
 KILKELLY-Kathleen Terese McLoughlin, Ed.D., RN, of Rockville Centre, on April 26, 1997. Mrs. Kilkelly was a resident of Rockville Centre, NY, for 32 years. She was a professor of Nursing at Molloy College, Rockville Centre, having taught there for 23 years, was recently serving as president
 BARKER-Elizabeth Shelly. Of New Canaan, CT. Born July 19, 1920, died April 27, 1997. Wife of Robert R. Barker and mother of James R. Barker, Ann S. Barker, W.B. (Ben) Barker and Margaret B. Clark. Sister of Robert M. Shelly and Ann S. Schafer. A celebration of her life will be held later in
 DeWIND-Joan. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation send our profound condolences to the DeWind family on the passing of Joan, wife of Adrian DeWind, former chairman of our Board of Directors. A noted butterfly and moth expert, she was passionately committed to the protecti
 ESKOW-Joan (nee Lefcourt). Died on April 27. An extraordinary woman who lived her life with dignity, graciousness and great passion. She exuded charm, warmth, generosity & sincerity. Her deep love and concern for humanity overflowed, and her noble spirit brightened the lives of everyone she
 FEIGENSON-Ethel. Age 79, on April 25, 1997. Widow of Abraham. Mother of Dr. Joel (Diane) of CT, Walter (Natasha) of CA. Grandmother of Andrew, Robert, Alex and Greg. Sister of Alfred Schechter of NY. She leaves a legacy of love, wisdom and friendship. Memorial contributions may be made to t
 FINS-Ruth (Lovett) The family of Ruth Fins mourns the death of their beloved wife and mother on April 27, 1997. Devoted wife, loving mother, and loyal friend to many. She is survived by her husband of 40 years Hank, daughter Robin L. Fins, son Dr. Joseph J. Fins and his wife Rabbi Amy B. Eh
 KARP-Vivian, 96, died April 26, 1997, wife of late Max, survived by Son Russell, daughter-in-law Gloria, grandchildren Andrew and Susannah, children of Gloria: Lauren, Robert, Nancy, David, and great grandchildren Molly and Rami. All immensely loved by her and in turn beloved by them. Milli
 PAOLI-Jennie. The Principals and Employees of Wallack Management Company mourn the passing of a long tme devoted employee and friend. She will be sorely missed by all.       
 SCHWIMMER-Gertrude, 79, of Teaneck on April 27, 1997. Civic leader active for four decades in issues concerning women, children, education, fair housing, community relations and civil liberties. Beloved wife of David for 55 years. Devoted mother of Shoshanna, Georgia, and Mark, and loving g
 WILKINSON-Irma. Died April 23, 1997. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of Irma Wilkinson. A collector and museum professional, she was a good friend and important supporter of the Brooklyn Museum of Art until her death. She
 Ann Petry, who took a single stretch of Harlem and brought it vividly and disturbingly to life in her acclaimed 1946 novel, ''The Street,'' died on Monday at a convalescent center near her home in Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 88. So much has been written about the hard life on the th
 DeWIND-Joan. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation send our profound condolences to the DeWind family on the passing of Joan, wife of Adrian DeWind, former chairman of our Board of Directors. A noted butterfly and moth expert, she was passionately committed to the protecti
 ESKOW-Joan. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 FINS-Ruth Lovett. It is with deep sorrow that the Rabbis, Trustees, Administrators, and members of Congregation Emanu-El record the passing of Ruth L. Fins, beloved wife of Hank, never-to-beforgotten mother of Dr. Joseph J. Fins and Robin L. Fins, and cherished mother-in-law of our colleagu
 GOLD-Helen, of Bay Harbor Island, FL. Passed away April 29, 1997. She is survived by her beloved husband Al. Loving sons Joel (Doris) & Les (Aggie). Caring sister, Gerrie Saull and brother Arthur Beneckson. Cherished grandchildren Scott, Julie, Jamie & Kelly Gold. Graveside services will be
 LILLIS-Joanna. Age 87, of Port Washington, L.I. on April 28, 1997. Beloved sister of Mary Sterling. Also survived by a niece and nephew. She was a retired long-time employee of Merrill Lynch, N.Y.C. Reposing at Austin F. Knowles, Inc. Funeral Home, 128 Main St. Port Washington, L.I. Visitin
 MALE-Lee. We note the passing of a good friend who loved photography and participated actively in this museum and its education programs. Her friendship and encouragement will be greatly missed. Cornell Capa, Founding Director Emeritus Phillip S. Block, Director of Education Int'l Center of
