 FEINBERG -- Dr. Barbara Jane (Silberdick) on October 30, 2006. Loving mother, sister and wife of the late Gerald Feinberg. Survived by son Douglas, son Jeremy and daughter - in - law Elizabeth, brother Norman and beloved dog Holly. Services Friday, 11:15AM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel,
 GLUCK--Sophie, died October 30, 2006 at age 93. Lawyer, judge. Beloved wife of Adolph and cherished sister and mother. She is survived by her son Matthew, daughterin-law Peggy, daughter Lucille, grandchildren David, Lori, Jeffrey and Carina, and great-grandchildren Andrew, Ari, Riley, Roxan
 KANNER--Bernice. The Board of Directors of the Girl Scout Council of Greater New York and its entire volunteer network and staff mourn the passing of fellow director Bernice Kanner. Bernice was one of our brightest stars, most creative and generous in all of her dealings. She will be greatl
 SOHMER--Muriel. Devoted wife, mother, and friend, died peacefully at home, age 90, on Monday evening. She leaves, bereft, her husband of 50 years, Hy, her son Alan, and daughter-in-law Jingshan, who will always miss her and think of her. Funeral service will be held on Wednesday 1PM at Fran
 TESE -- Marjorie Elizabeth ''Betty'' (nee Vroom), age 96. Died on October 30th, 2006 at her home in New Suffolk, L.I. Betty was predeceased in 1972 by her husband, Vincent Tese, Esq., the love of her life, who she loyally cared for throughout his long illness. Vincent, born in Naro, Sicily 
 WOOD--Julia Snell. Died on October 31, 2006 at home in Haworth, N.J. She was born on September 20, 1920 in Herkimer, N.Y. Daughter of Katharine Kinne and Cornelius Harry Snell. She was wife of John R. Wood, Jr. and is survived by two daughters Cornelia Ferrara and Margaret Wood and four son
 Sally Lilienthal, who established one of the largest American foundations dedicated to preventing the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died at a hospital in San Francisco on Oct. 24. She was 87. Her death came after an extended illness, said Deborah Bain, an admin
 DEUTZ--Natalie, 88, formerly of NYC died October 28, 2006 in St. Petersburg, FL. Retired VP of Barbizon Fashion School. Member of SAG and AFTRA, she appeared in many movies and TV shows. Burial November 6 in Boston. Online guestbook www.davidcgross.com       
 FEINBERG -- Dr. Barbara Jane (Silberdick) on October 30, 2006. Loving mother, sister and wife of the late Gerald Feinberg. Survived by son Douglas, son Jeremy and daughter - in - law Elizabeth, brother Norman and beloved dog Holly. Services Friday, 11:15AM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel,
 HERRICK--Anne, 61. Of Osterville, MA., and Telluride, CO., died peacefully in her home on November 1, 2006. Wife of Ted, mother of Amy and Todd, grandmother of Jack, Teddy, Jenny, Ana and Luis, and daughter of Mary C. Griffin, and the late John T. Griffin, of OSterville. Services will be he
 KAYE -- Stephen R. The Board of Directors and the staff of The Legal Aid Society extend our sincere condolences to Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye and her family on the loss of their loved one. Patricia M. Hynes, Chairperson of the Board of Directors       
 MACKEN--Maritza Hibbard, the niece and and last surviving first generation relative of her uncle, Filipe Carillo Puerto, the ''Liberator of Mexico,'' died on October 23rd from complications of Alzheimer's Disease. She was 76 years old and lived in New York for 26 years. Her life-long intere
 VAN STOCKUM--Hilda, noted author, illustrator and painter, whose children's books have won Newbery honors and the National Conference of Christians and Jews Brotherhood Award, died peacefully at her home in Berkhamsted, U.K. on All Saints Day after a stroke. She was 98 years old and in clos
 GROSSFELD--Mildred. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Mildred Grossfeld. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F. Sharfstein, President       
 Florence Klotz, who won six Tony Awards for designing some of the most memorable costumes in recent Broadway history, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. The cause was heart failure, said her lawyer, Mark Sendroff. With a flair for period dress and an obsess
 GLICK--Doris. George Iacobescu and Peter Anderson on their own behalf and on behalf of Canary Wharf Group management and employees express their condolences and their deep sorrow to Mr. Louis Glick, Mr. Simon Glick and Mrs. Esti Pluchenick for the loss of their wife and mother Mrs. Grace Gl
 IMPERIAL--Joseph of Weston, FL on November 1, 2006, beloved husband of Salvadora (Rosales), devoted father of Marguerite Kirschner, Bettina Magliato, Maria Imperial and her husband Roland Acevedo and Doretta Hamblin and husband Troy, loving grandfather of Michelle, Joseph, Jacqui, Nicholas,
 LAWRENCE--Nancy Jo. My sister, Nancy Jo Lawrence, born Turchiano, died at home in Branford, CT on September 26th, 16 days after celebrating her 60th birthday. She relocated from Manhattan to Branford a decade ago. Nancy was one singular sensation in the cosmetics industry during an era when
 MEHLMAN--Frances (Berman, Lane, Krebs), 85, of San Antonio, TX, formerly of Sands Point, NY and Coconut Creek, FL. She died peacefully on November 1, following a long struggle with Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved mother of Dr. Gary Lane and Dr. April Lane Benson, she was also the grandmother o
 Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village. She was 40. Grace Brugess, a spokeswoman for the 
 Dr. Edithe J. Levit, an educator who helped reform the bedside tests required for doctors to be licensed and oversaw the National Board of Medical Examiners in the 1970s and '80s, died on Oct. 18 in Amherst, Mass. She was 79. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Dr. L
 Hilda van Stockum, an award-winning children's author and illustrator whose books depicted family life in the Netherlands, Ireland, the United States and Canada, died on Wednesday at her home in Berkhamsted, England. She was 98. The cause was a stroke, said her son John Tepper Marli
 KEPES--Edith. Her fellow sculptors at the Art Students League note with sadness the death of our friend Edith after an accident at age 92. She worked for years among us as recently as last September. Her smile and sunny disposition will long be remembered. She was a beautiful woman who made
 POSIN--Esther. Assael International Inc. mourns the death of our beloved President and esteemed colleague. We wish to extend our deepest condolences to her entire family. We shall miss her counsel, her generous spirit and her ability to solve all our problems-big or small! We will always re
 Jane Hodgson, a prominent abortion rights advocate who in a highly publicized test case in 1970 became the only doctor in the United States to be convicted of illegally performing an abortion in a hospital, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Rochester, Minn. She was 91. Dr. Hodgson's de
 BENNETT--Lisa, 83, artist, teacher, and dear friend of many, passed away at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, NY, November 2. She will be missed. Maxine, Jean and Diane       
 CLARK--Trinkett (May 17, 1951 -October 29, 2006). Beloved wife of H. Nichols B. Clark and adored mother of Charlotte Allegra Rice Clark, died peacefully at home after a short but courageous battle with liver cancer. She is also survived by her sister Wendy Clark Jennings. The daughter of Cl
 DANIS--Herta E. of New York City, died on October 27th at age 94, in Ioannina, Greece. Herta was a fund-raiser for the New York Jewish Guild for the Blind and Joseph Papp at the New York Shakespeare Festival for many years. Predeceased by her husband Sydney H. Danis, son William J. Nisselso
 DEWALT--Sydney, 78, passed away Oct. 23, 2006. She stubbornly battled yet another bout with cancer, but was unable to beat it this time. Sydney was born Aug. 1, 1928, in Long Island, New York, to Sidney and Virginia Maranov. She enjoyed her youth on Long Island, telling us stories about her
 KAO--Diana Li-hua. Thursday, October 26, 2006, peacefully at age 94 in Rochester, N.Y. She is survived by her son, Yen T. (Julia) Tan and grandson Derek Shieh Tan. For information you may contact Vay-Schleich &Meeson Funeral Home. 585227-2700.       
 LOEWUS - Frederick. The Hunter College community mourns the passing of the beloved husband of our esteemed alumna and Hunter College Foundation Trustee, Helen Galland. A distinguished gentleman, Fred was a regular participant at Hunter events and a much loved member of the Hunter community.
 MACKEN--Maritza Hibbard, the niece and and last surviving first generation relative of her uncle, Filipe Carillo Puerto, the ''Liberator of Mexico,'' died on October 23rd from complications of Alzheimer's Disease. She was 76 years old and lived in New York for 26 years. Her life-long intere
 MARASCIULLO--Joan M. died on October 21, 2006 at age 94 in Hospice of Palm Beach in Atlantis, FL, where she resided after her retirement. She began her career in hospital administration and was employed by the VA and Mt. Sinai hospitals. She was also employed in the press secretary's office
 MEHLMAN--Frances (Berman, Lane, Krebs), 85, of San Antonio, TX, formerly of Sands Point, NY and Coconut Creek, FL. She died peacefully on November 1, following a long struggle with Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved mother of Dr. Gary Lane and Dr. April Lane Benson, she was also the grandmother o
 POSIN--Esther. We are deeply saddened by the passing away of our President who was an inspiration to our Foundation in helping us find the suitable charities that needed very badly our support. The Assael Foundation Salvador J. Assael, Chairman and the Board of Directors $(6$)POSIN-
 SCHECTER--Miriam G., 98, on October 25th, 2006, in Suffern, NY. She was born in NYC, November 29th, 1907. She was a social activist, artist and member of the American Society of Interior Designers. She was president of PS #       
 VAN STOCKUM--Hilda, noted author, illustrator and painter, whose children's books have won Newbery honors and the National Conference of Christians and Jews Brotherhood Award, died peacefully at her home in Berkhamsted, U.K. on All Saints Day after a stroke. She was 98 years old and in clos
 Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif. Her death was con
 MORGENTHAU -- Ruth (Schachter) of Cambridge, MA, on Saturday, November 4, 2006. Beloved wife of Henry. Loving mother of Sarah Wessel and her husband Carlton, H. Ben Morgenthau and Kramer Morgenthau. Cherished grandmother of Edward, Henry and Mizia Wessel. Dear sister of Alice Barzilay. Serv
 POSIN--Esther. We are deeply saddened by the passing away of our President who was an inspiration to our Foundation in helping us find the suitable charities that needed very badly our support. The Assael Foundation Salvador J. Assael, Chairman and the Board of Directors $(6$)POSIN-
 ROBIN - Therese. Passed away peacefully on November 4, 2006, at 89 years of age. She survived adversity, fighting Nazis in the French Underground during WWII, rescuing American and British Air Force pilots. She was a breast cancer survivor, having fought and vanquished that disease in her l
 RUSALEM--Roslyn of New York, NY. Passed away on Sunday November 5, 2006 at Beth Israel Hospital. She was 85 years old. She was an analyst with the New York City Department of Correction. Previously, she was a research psychologist at Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center and coordinator of
 de SAINT PHALLE--Virginia. Died November 3, 2006 at Bishop White Lodge, Philadelphia, PA. Ginny was the eldest of six children born to Raymond and Geraldine Wall of Elkins Park, PA. Born in 1925, she filled her life with five children, intellectual interests and a love of beauty. She attend
 BLUCHER--Diana (nee Rogovin). Wife of the late Lewis Blucher, passed away in her sleep at the age of 97. She is survived by her sister-inlaw Hannelore Rogovin of Venice, FL, & by her nieces Juta & Judith. Services were held, November 2, 2006 at Riverside Memorial chapel.       
 FRIEDLANDER--Hilda, (nee Olmut), on October 31. Age 90. Wife of the late Herman. She is survived by three daughters, Julie Raskin of Columbia, MD, Jo Friedlander of Norwalk, CT and Jane Perl of Cortlandt Manor, NY; two sons-in-law, Stanley Raskin and John Perl; and two grandchildren, Alison
 KELLY--Mary A. 88, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn died on November 5th in Our Lady of Consolation Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in West Islip, N.Y. She was born on November 2, 1918 in Brooklyn, daughter of the late Thomas Vincent and Margaret Lillian. In addition to her parents,she was preceded
 LEICHTER--Sarah. 97, died peacefully at home November 2, 2006. Sarah was Vice President of the Millinery Workers 'Union at a time that few women were admitted to those ranks. She was especially proud of her efforts to improve working conditions for sweatshop workers. She was preceded in dea
 RUDNER--Brenda L. Of Dorset, Vt., passed quietly with her loving family by her side on October 25, 2006. She was the daughter of Leighton and Ruth Lobdell of Rumson, N.J. and granddaughter of Edward Dean and Frances Adams, also of Rumson. She is the sister of Leighton Lobdell of Ponte Verde
 SHERMAN--Florence. On November 7 at home at age 85. Cherished, beloved and loving wife of Julius (John, Jules, Ginsy) for 62 years; passionately devoted mother of Rita and husband, Jeffrey Seward, and of Ray. NYC high school math teacher, artist, idealist, good friend, she changed the world
 STARR--Polly Thayer. The only living painter included in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts' landmark exibition ''A Studio of Her Own: Women Artists in Boston 1870-1940,'' died peacefully at her Lexington home on August 30. She would have been 102 today. She attended the School of the Museum of
 WOOD--Jacqueline M., 75, of Port Washington, NY on November 5, 2006. Born in NYC in 1931 to Abraham and Lisette Stark. Oberlin Conservatory, 1953. She was a gifted pianist and cherished teacher. Viewing at Knowles Funeral Home, November 8 and 9, 516-767-0123. Memorial service on Friday, Nov
 BARBET-D'ASSIGNIES-Denyse, passed away at the age of 87 on November 3rd in Costa Rica. She worked at the United Nations for 20 years, was a Barnard College graduate, social psychologist, a painter, and a breast cancer survivor. She is remembered fondly by her three nieces. A memorial servic
 BIEDERMAN--Esther G. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Morris and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosen
 HEPNER--Freda Deitchman, died at 11am Wednesday after a prolonged illness. She leaves her husband Albert, daughters Suzy, Mindy and Amy, daughter-in-law Jackie, son-in-law Cody and grandson Peja. Graveside services to be held 1pm Thursday at the Roosevelt, NJ cemetery. Donations may be made
 HITE--Patience H. of Princeton, NJ, 83, died at home on Friday, October 27. She was born in San Francisco in 1923, daughter of Ruth Bekins and Herbert Holt. Later, her family moved to Pasadena, CA, where she grew up. She attended Wellesley College and University of California at Berkeley. S
 ROSENTHAL--Hinda The Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons notes with deep sorrow and heavy hearts the passing of our beloved founder, friend and long-time supporter, Hinda Gould Rosenthal. She w
 WOOD--Jacqueline M., 75, of Port Washington, NY on November 5, 2006. Born in NYC in 1931 to Abraham and Lisette Stark. Oberlin Conservatory, 1953. She was a gifted pianist and cherished teacher. Viewing at Knowles Funeral Home, November 8 and 9, 516-767-0123. Memorial service on Friday, Nov
 Ellen Willis, the noted journalist, feminist and cultural critic, whose work ranged seamlessly through politics and religion, sex, film and rock 'n' roll, died yesterday at her home in Queens. She was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Stanley Aronowitz, the well-known
 BIEDERMAN--Esther G. The partners and staff of Biederman, Greenwald, Kresch & Gerbasi, CPAs deeply mourn the passing of Esther G. Biederman, beloved wife of Morris E. Biederman, a founding partner of the firm. A dedicated professional in our organization, with her remarkable intelligence an
 BONCHICK--Anna. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children Ruth, Michael, Richard and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Paul Hendler, President Karen Go
 FRESSOLA--Elena, died at her home in Edgewater, NJ, last month shortly before her 85th birthday. Her love will be greatly missed by all who knew her. She was always a caring aunt, great-aunt, and great-great-aunt. Her funeral was held at Our Lady of Pompei Church in Greenwich Village, where
 GRAFF--Ruth. On November 8, 2006. Beloved wife of the late David Graff. Loving and devoted mother and grandmother. She was a kind, generous and elegant woman. We will all miss you very much: Howard, Bonnie, Howard, Susan, David, Michelle, Jennifer, Danielle.       
 ROLLINS--Abbe 52, passed away peacefully at home, November 8, 2006. Beloved daughter of Charles and Nancy Rollins and Laurel and Adam van Mierlo. Cherished sister of Pamela Rollins and Patricia van Mierlo and Christopher van Mierlo. Adored aunt of Julian, Isabel, Charlotte and Simon Camacho
 ROSENTHAL--Hinda. Words cannot express how deeply we will miss our beloved friend, surrogate mother, godmother. Her warmth, charm and generosity touched multitudes. Our condolences to all the Rosenthals and Rosenbergs. Joni Maya Cherbo Adam M. S. Heine $(6$)ROSENTHAL--Hinda Gould. C
 SHULDMAN--Susan Rae, died Monday night in Brooklyn with her family beside her. She gave and gave and gave until there was nothing left to give. We love you. Donations to the ACS.       
 SPIEGLER--Jeanne, 101 yrs old. Adoring aunt to Judith and Susan, loving great-aunt to Matthew, Sharon, Anna, Danielle, Rachel, April and Sara, sister-in-law to Beatrice. Passionate feminist, supporter of Jewish causes, conscientious manager at ''Davidsons'' for over 40 years. Her unconditio
 WOOD--Jacqueline M., 75, of Port Washington, NY on November 5, 2006. Born in NYC in 1931 to Abraham and Lisette Stark. Oberlin Conservatory, 1953. She was a gifted pianist and cherished teacher. Viewing at Knowles Funeral Home, November 8 and 9, 516-767-0123. Memorial service on Friday, Nov
 SCHWEITZER--Dr. Nancy J., 20 years gone, but never forgotten by her family, friends, colleagues, students and patients. Nov. 10, 1949-Nov. 12, 1986       
 Marian Marsh, a Hollywood actress of the 1930s and early '40s best known for starring opposite John Barrymore in the 1931 melodrama ''Svengali,'' died on Thursday at her home in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 93. Ms. Marsh, who was known by her married name, Marian Marsh Henderson, die
 FRESSOLA--Elena, died at her home in Edgewater, NJ, last month shortly before her 85th birthday. Her love will be greatly missed by all who knew her. She was always a caring aunt, great-aunt, and great-great-aunt. Her funeral was held at Our Lady of Pompei Church in Greenwich Village, where
 ROSENTHAL--Hinda. The Board and Staff of LCT are saddened by the death of our good friend and enthusiastic advocate, Hinda, who loved and enjoyed the work of the theater and was especially devoted to our literary journal, the LCT Review, which she believed in passionately, admired wholehear
 WILLIS--Ellen. On November 9, 2006. Service on Sunday 11:45 am at the Riverside, 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. WILLIS--Ellen. The sisterhood of History in Action, a group of multigenerational feminist activists wishes to express our grief at the loss of Ellen Willis, activist, scholar, w
 ANSCHER--MarciaIt is with extreme sadness we announce the passing of Marcia Anscher, our mother, grandmother, sister and friend. She was for all of us ''Bubbe''. From her humble beginnings, she rose to become the CFO for 41 years of a successful multi national manufacturing company. She acc
 BURTNIEKS--ElviraAge 101. NYC resident, died November 6. Born Riga, Latvia. Loving mother of Ines, Washington D.C. and NYC. She was an inspiration to all who knew her and will be truly missed. Private service.       
 DISCO--Josephine (Jo) Bingham of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Norwich, CT, died October 24, 2006, age 93. She was the widow of Harold Disco. Born April 15, 1913 in Carlisle, PA, Jo graduated with a BA from Smith College and a MSW from USC. She worked as an executive for the National Associ
 KOMISAR--Edith Shain Edith Komisar passed away on May 28, 2006 in Riverdale, New York at the age of 86. She is survived by her four daughters, Karen Proner, Sher Komisar, Holly Younger and Erica Kassalow, and seven grandchildren. She was a loving, devoted wife to her late husband Philip Kom
 ROLLINS--Abbe 52, passed away peacefully at home, November 8, 2006. Beloved daughter of Charles and Nancy Rollins and Laurel and Adam van Mierlo. Cherished sister of Pamela Rollins and Patricia van Mierlo and Christopher van Mierlo. Adored aunt of Julian, Isabel, Charlotte and Simon Camacho
 RUBIN--Phyllis Bogen. Goodbye to my dearest cousin and best friend. Sincere condolances to her devoted husband Dr. J. Gordon Rubin, adored son Andrew, brothers Ernie and Stanley Bogen and their families. Lovingly, Patte Bogen Roberts $(6$)RUBIN--Phyllis Bogen. With great sadness we say fare
 SAMII--Shahla. The daughter of Mohammad Taghi Khosrowshahi and Mahin Banoo Boushehri, Shahla Samii was born on December 17th, 1944 in Teheran, Iran. In September of 1966, she married Abdol Hossein Ebtehaj Samii, with whom she had two children, her son, Ahmad Ali, and her daughter, Zivar Gol
 WILLIS--Ellen. The sisterhood of History in Action, a group of multigenerational feminist activists wishes to express our grief at the loss of Ellen Willis, activist, scholar, warrior, visionary and sister. Her brilliant writings have informed and inspired us. She felt as strongly about sex
 McCRYSTAL--Dorothea M. (Dee), 85, died Saturday, October 28th at Memorial Health University Medical Center, Savannah, GA. Dee was born in New York City on December 23rd, 1920. She grew up in Hamden, CT. After high school, she moved to Brooklyn, NY, and completed a BA in English at St. Josep
 FROMAN--Jane, Remembering singer Jane Froman; her centennial will be celebrated in Columbia, Missouri on November 10, 2007.       
 Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston. She was 75 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The death was confirmed by her daughter, Sara
 FONTAYNE--Famed fashion designer. Beloved wife of the late Chester Schlanger. Devoted sister of Robert and sister-in-law of Audrey. Greatly missed by her adoring nieces and nephews, Debra and Michael Melita, Jean and David Baird, and Louis and Maria Goldsmith. She was admired by her great-n
 REILLY -- Adrianne Baker, died Friday, November 10, 2006, in Greenwich, CT, after a long illness. She was born in New York City on June 9, 1934. A life-long resident of Greenwich, she was the daughter of Griffith Mark and Elinor Medill Patterson. Griffith Mark was a financier with the Guara
 RUBIN--Phyllis, with great sadness we mourn the passing of Phyllis. She was an honorable, loving woman and we shall miss her. Our condolences to Gordon and Andrew. Ernie, Rita and Family $(6$)RUBIN--Phyllis (nee Bogen) of Sarasota, Florida, well known New York designer, died Novembe
 WEINBERG - Mildred. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WEINER--Suzanne Beggins, died peacefully November 10th. Beloved mother, adoring sister, devoted grandmother. Executive Director, Dr. I. Foundation. Husband, sports agent Irwin Weiner, predeceased her. Viewing Monday, 3-9 pm, Westchester Funeral Home, 190 Main St, Eastchester.       
 BABUS--Maxine. Beloved wife of Dr. Leon Babus, of blessed memory, adored mother of Howard and Steven, loving grandmother of Lenard, Robert, and Isaac, passed away on Sunday, November 12th after a brief illness. She was a long time resident of Long Beach, N.Y. and Coconut Creek, FL. Memorial
 GOLDSTEIN--Selma. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Selma Goldstein. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard F. Sharfstein, President $(6$)GOLDSTEIN--Selma Roth, age 88, passed away peacefully on
 HENRY--Theresa Eileen (nee Lennon), of Brookhaven, LI, formerly of Babylon Village, LI, on November 10, 2006, her 72nd birthday. Beloved wife of the Honorable Patrick Henry. Devoted mother of Lindsay Henry, Jennifer Henry McCabe, James Henry, Margaret Shaw and Elizabeth Kennedy. Dear mother
 SACK--Beatriz. The Hunter College community mourns with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved daughter of our colleague, Deborah Sack. Bea brought much joy in her short lifetime to Deborah and her family and we extend our heartfelt sympathies to them. Jennifer J. Raab President, Hunter Col
 BETHELL--Sr. Annunciata, O.S.U., 90. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center and the entire Montefiore community are deeply saddened by the death of longtime Board member, Montefiore volunteer and community spirit and activist for the young and the elderly, Sr. Annu
 ROBINTON--Madeline Russell. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Professor Emerita Madeline Robinton, an esteemed member of the history faculty at Brooklyn College from 1931 to 1976. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Christoph M. Kimmich, President Brooklyn College       
 BARTLETT--Phyllis, of Manhattan, NY and Lakeville, CT died suddenly Wednesday, November 8th at the age of 69. A graduate of The Brearley School and the Rhode Island School of Design, Ms. Bartlett distinguished herself at House Beautiful magazine for 30 years. She also enjoyed active members
 DOHERTY--Marna O'Mara. Age 53, on November 11, 2006 after a courageous battle against colon cancer. Known as Dia, she is survived by husband Regis Blodgett, sons Justin, Morgan and Jared. Siblings Lisa Greene, Meghan, Sarah and Gregory Doherty. Predeceased by brother Sean. She radiated joy 
 GOLDSTEIN--Selma Roth, age 88, passed away peacefully on Sunday morning, November 12. She was the adored and adoring wife of the late Leonard, the loving and beloved mother of Jane and Robert Shapiro and Cathy Goldstein and the proud grandmother of Adam, Joshua, and Benjamin. A devoted frie
 KATZMAN--Shirley, on November 13, 2006. Beloved wife of Lawrence. Loving mother of Richard, John and Julie. Proud grandmother of Perri, Thomas, Daniel, Lyra, Benjamin and Sophie. Devoted sister of Pearl and Steve. Everyone who ever met her, loved her. Contributions in her name may be made t
 McVAY--Rosanne (nee Magdol) Passed peacefully, October 26th, after a long life that included a vibrant career in publishing at The New Yorker and Collier's. Rosanne survived two husbands and three brothers, is survived by nieces Lynn Magdol and Carole Aronson, nephews Joseph Magdol and Mich
 BOSWORTH--Anne. The faculty, students, staff, trustees, and alumni of Saint Ann's School mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague Annie Bosworth on November 15, 2006. Founder of the Saint Ann's School Library, Annie inspired forty years of students and teachers with her integri
 EPSTEIN--Esta Miriam, 101, died peacefully November 13, 2006 in Carbondale, CO. Wife of the late Harold Epstein of Larchmont, NY, mother of Susan Cherbuliez of South Freeport, ME and Laurel Loeb of Carbondale, CO. Devoted grandmother to five granddaughters and six great-granddaughters. Dona
 FAUX--Patricia I., Spartanburg, SC. Loving family of Patricia I. Faux mourns her loss on November 15, 2006.       
 HINDES--Betty, 81, of Croton, NY, a gifted sculptor, painter and jeweler, died September 21, 2006. Born in the Bronx, she graduated from NYU and studied painting with Jack Levine. At 22, she married Manhattan dentist George Hindes with whom she had two children. She later married jazz compo
 KATZMAN--Shirley, on November 13, 2006. Beloved wife of Lawrence. Loving mother of Richard, John and Julie. Proud grandmother of Perri, Thomas, Daniel, Lyra, Benjamin and Sophie. Devoted sister of Pearl and Steve. Everyone who ever met her, loved her. Contributions in her name may be made t
 LEDERBERG--Esther Zimmer, an accomplished twentieth century scientist, died November 11 at Stanford Hospital from pneumonia and congestive heart failure. Dr. Lederberg is best known for the development of replica plating, and the discovery of lambda-phage transduction and lysogenicity. Her 
 BONCHICK--Anna Natalie, passed away suddenly and unexpectedly on November 9th. Mother to three, grandmother to six and surrogate mother to multitudes, she will be missed by the many friends and family whom she would always welcome into her home. Her giving to the community manifested itself
 DINES--Ellen T. We mourn the death of our long-time trustee and very good friend, Ellen T. Dines. As an administrator in the New York City public school, Ellen Dines fought for the kind of education she felt that children deserved. She brought to our organization experience, intelligence, a
 JOSEPHS--Erica, of Dix Hills, NY. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Faculty, staff and students of the North Shore Hebrew Academy and the North Shore Hebrew Academy High School mourn the passing of Erica Josephs, beloved mother of Lisa Kaufman, Executive Board Member and Vice President
 KIERNAN--Agnes (nee DeVita) born May 3, 1903 on Manhattan's East Side (Epiphany Parish) raised on Manhattan's West Side (St. Michael's Parish). Died November 15, 2006. Predeceased by her beloved husband Jack. Daughter of the late parents Antonio & Giovanna DeVita, brothers Mike, Frank, John
 LEDERBERG--Esther Zimmer, an accomplished twentieth century scientist, died November 11 at Stanford Hospital from pneumonia and congestive heart failure. Dr. Lederberg is best known for the development of replica plating, and the discovery of lambda-phage transduction and lysogenicity. Her 
 RYAN--Elizabeth Joy (nee Wilkinson) after a long illness; Life long New Yorker and career researcher for Grollier's; Predeceased by her husband, Francis J. Ryan, in 1963 and brother, Horatio Wilkinson, in 2006; Survived by long time companion, Ramsey Togo, her sister, Carol Moss (nee Wilkin
 SAMII--Shahla. The daughter of Mohammad Taghi Khosrowshahi and Mahin Banoo Boushehri, Shahla Samii was born on December 17th, 1944 in Teheran, Iran. In September of 1966, she married Abdol Hossein Ebtehaj Samii, with whom she had two children, her son, Ahmad Ali, and her daughter, Zivar Gol
 LAWSON - BARNES--Patricia, 80, a gifted marketing, fashion and color executive and consultant, died peacefully November 13, 2006. Mrs. Lawson-Barnes, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Westcott Toole of Allenhurst, NJ, was a resident of Navesink Harbor in Red Bank, NJ. During her distinguished
 KREITMAN--Roslyn, born in NYC, April 19, 1913 passed away in Miami on November 16, 2006. Roslyn graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn and from Parsons School of Design, NYC. She was a teacher, artist, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and friend. She lived a long, 
 LEDERBERG--Esther Miriam Zimmer, Ph.D. An accomplished twentieth century scientist and an exceptionally beautiful, loving, and ethical person died November 11th from complications of pneumonia and congestive heart failure. She was 83. Esther Zimmer was born in the Bronx, New York, on Decemb
 RAPPAPORT--Frances (nee Schwartz), age 89, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, died at home in Coconut Creek, Fl, on November 17, 2006. Predeceased by her husband, Al, son Robert and brothers, Ned Shaw and Irving Schwartz. Survived by sons Mort (Karen Bonn), Steven (Judith Garson) and Donald;
 FITZGIBBON -- Rosaleen C. On November 16, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Patrick. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Sunday, Nov. 19, 2-5 & 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Monday,
 Ruth Brown, the gutsy rhythm and blues singer whose career extended to acting and crusading for musicians' rights, died yesterday in Las Vegas. She was 78 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was complications following a heart attack and a stroke she suffered after surgery, and Ms. Br
 EPSTEIN--Esta Miriam, 101, died peacefully November 13, 2006 in Carbondale, CO. Wife of the late Harold Epstein of Larchmont, NY, mother of Susan Cherbuliez of South Freeport, ME and Laurel Loeb of Carbondale, CO. Devoted grandmother to five granddaughters and six great-granddaughters. Dona
 ETTMAN--Fay nee Brostowsky on November 16th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Loving mother of Philip, Bruce and Alan. Mother-inlaw of Marilyn and Susan. Devoted grandmother of Glenn, Rob and Leah. Services Monday 9:45am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Officiate
 HISCANO--Margaret (Peggy) von Lengerke 82, of Short Hills, NJ died at her home on Thursday, November 16, 2006. Born in Orange, New Jersey, Mrs. Hiscano was a graduate of the Beard School (now Morristown Beard) and Bennett Junior College. During World War II she volunteered as a Red Cross nu
 KREITMAN--Roslyn, born in NYC, April 19, 1913 passed away in Miami on November 16, 2006. Roslyn graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn and from Parsons School of Design, NYC. She was a teacher, artist, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and friend. She lived a long, 
 LEDERBERG--Esther Miriam Zimmer, Ph.D. An accomplished twentieth century scientist and an exceptionally beautiful, loving, and ethical person died November 11th from complications of pneumonia and congestive heart failure. She was 83. Esther Zimmer was born in the Bronx, New York, on Decemb
 NATHAN--Evelyn. Beloved wife of the late Leroy. Loving mother of Terry and Alan Blumenfeld & the late Leroy Nathan. Cherished grandmother of Noah and Max Blumenfeld. Thanks to Rosia Lawrence, her faithful housekeeper.       
 ORTNER--Evelyn. Remarkable is the only word. It applies to who she was; a caring, joyful and brilliant person and also to what she gave; to everyone who was in her aura, past and present. Brooklyn will never be the same. Mary Ellen Donovan Fuller       
 RAPPAPORT--Frances (nee Schwartz), age 89, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, died at home in Coconut Creek, Fl, on November 17, 2006. Predeceased by her husband, Al, son Robert and brothers, Ned Shaw and Irving Schwartz. Survived by sons Mort (Karen Bonn), Steven (Judith Garson) and Donald;
 RICHNER--Edith, 79, of Rockville Centre, NY and Boca Raton FL. Beloved mother, grandmother and accomplished businesswoman, died on Friday, November 17, 2006 after succumbing to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease a rare brain disorder. She was predeceased by her devoted husband of 51 years Robert. To
 SHAW--Vivian, 81, of New York City, a retired high school art teacher, died November 15th, 2006. She is survived by her sister Ina Tillman, niece Lisa Goldberg, nephew Jim Johnson and grandniece Natalie.       
 VASILLOV--Magda J., art historian, teacher and scholar died on November 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. The cause was kidney cancer. She was 72, and lived in New Rochelle, NY, with her husband Robert Denison. Magda was Chairperson of the Humanities Department at Hostos Community Colleg
 HEITSCHEL--Joan Marie born August 24, 1929 to Gean Harold Heitschel and Sophie Horowitz Heitschel, died Sunday, November 5th, 2006 at 6:00 pm under the light of a full moon. Pictures of her as a young woman reflect something of her glamorous show business mother, perky and alive with a cert
 NATHAN--Evelyn. We extend our deepest sympathy to Terry on the loss of her cherished mother and to her family, Alan, Noah and Max. May the warmth of your memories give you comfort in the years to come. With love, Ken, Jill, Zachary and Kiva $(6$)NATHAN--Evelyn. You were one of a kin
 KOHL--Blossom Iris Schultz, November 18, 2006, age 87 of a heart attack. Educated at Fieldston, Mt. Holyoke and Columbia. She was a devoted friend and hostess, a devotee of travel, theatre, Scarsdale, hotels and dessert. Predeceased by her husband of 57 years, Schuyler, and her brother Burt
 LUPKIN--Sylvia, We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi Honorable Richard Kestenbaum, President $(6$)LUPKIN--Sylvia. Matriarch of the Lupkin Family, adored wife of David, lov
 MALTZER--Pauline (nee Josephson), age 93, formerly of Linden, NJ died on November 17, 2006. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Carl Malzter, she is survived by her daughters Harriet Botwinick and Gene Berry and her grandchildren Jonathan and Daniel Botwinick and Michele and David Cohen. Sh
 NATHAN--Evelyn. Beloved wife of the late Leroy. Loving mother of Terry and Alan Blumenfeld & the late Leroy Nathan. Cherished grandmother of Noah and Max Blumenfeld. Thanks to Rosia Lawrence, her faithful housekeeper.       
 RICHNER--Edith, 79, of Rockville Centre, NY and Boca Raton FL. Beloved mother, grandmother and accomplished businesswoman, died on Friday, November 17, 2006 after succumbing to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease a rare brain disorder. She was predeceased by her devoted husband of 51 years Robert. To
 ROSEN--Lucille, 91, died November 17, 2006, at home in New York. Progressive thinker, dedicated teacher, the original working mom, loving mother and grandmother. A unique individual, she is survived by her daughters, Ellen Rosen and Lili Hartman and her grandchildren Dylan Rosen-Ivanov, Gab
 KIRSHENBAUM--Frances G. Frances G. Kirshenbaum, mother of Paula Isacoff, grandmother of Oren and Tania, formerly of NYC passed away Friday. The funeral was held in Providence, RI, Sunday. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Jeffrey Modell Foundation, 743 3rd A
 VANDERPUTTEN--Ruth V. 93, (nee Bracht), of Westbury and New York City, died on Friday November 17th, she is survived by her sons and daughters - in - law, Thomas and Joan of Trinity, Florida; Gary and Jan of Brooklyn, New York and James and Jill of Pelham Manor, New York. She is also surviv
 NATHAN--Evelyn. We extend our deepest sympathy to Terry on the loss of her cherished mother and to her family, Alan, Noah and Max. May the warmth of your memories give you comfort in the years to come. With love, Ken, Jill, Zachary and Kiva $(6$)NATHAN--Evelyn. You were one of a kin
 Bettye Ackerman, an actress best known for her role as Dr. Maggie Graham, Vince Edwards's love interest in the television drama ''Ben Casey,'' died on Nov. 1 at her home in Columbia, S.C. She was 82. The Folk Funeral Home in Williston, S.C., confirmed her death. The widow of the not
 Michele Maxian, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who successfully battled to require New York State courts to arraign a suspect within 24 hours of being arrested, helping to spur reform in the New York City justice system, died last Tuesday in Union City, N.J. She was 55. The cause was ov
 DIAMOND--Elizabeth (Liz), Beloved wife of Simon Bleiweiss and mother to Bill, Randy and Bonnie. Adored by her sister, Lillian Igra and her daughters-in-law, Carol and Lori. Devoted to her granchildren, Marie and Jonathan. Funeral services at ''The Riverside'' 76th and Amsterdam. 9:30 Wednes
 GROSS--Gloria Lipson, of Great Neck, NY, on November 19. Wife of Robert Gross, mother of Donald, Kenneth and Jeffrey Gross and Betsy Hurowitz, grandmother of Lisa Gross and Noah Levine, mother-in-law of Su Kwak, Don Hurowitz and Julie Breskin. Community leader, woman's rights advocate, publ
 KOHL--Blossom Iris Schultz, November 18, 2006, age 87 of a heart attack. Educated at Fieldston, Mt. Holyoke and Columbia. She was a devoted friend and hostess, a devotee of travel, theatre, Scarsdale, hotels and dessert. Predeceased by her husband of 57 years, Schuyler, and her brother Burt
 LEVY--Belle, 95, died peacefully November 19th, 2006 in her home. Cherished wife of the late Irving Levy. Devoted mother of Lynda (Miller) and Harry Rich and Stephen and Marjorie Levy. Sister of Esther Schaffer, Harold, Shirley, Normand and Mimi Canter. Loving grandmother and great-grandmot
 NATHAN--Evelyn. You were one of a kind, glamorous and beautiful. My happiest childhood memories include times shared, playing innocently and endlessly, with Terry in your gracious house. Thank you ''Aunt'' Evelyn for those warm and loving memories, but most of all, for sharing your teasured
 ROSEN--Lucille, 91, died November 17, 2006, at home in New York. Progressive thinker, dedicated teacher, the original working mom, loving mother and grandmother. A unique individual, she is survived by her daughters, Ellen Rosen and Lili Hartman and her grandchildren Dylan Rosen-Ivanov, Gab
 ALPERT--Claire Knapp, 27, of Bridgeport, CT, a producer for ABC News (Good Morning America) and former Program Secretary for This Week in Washington, died Sunday, November 19, 2006 in New York City. She was a 2001 Graduate of The Catholic University of America. She was the devoted daughter 
 BERNHEIM--Peggy, ''...love is never gone; and as we travel on, love is what we will remember.'' Grace Bellotti BERNHEIM--Hon. Peggy, Bronx Supreme Court Justice, retired; currently Judicial Hearing Officer. Graduate of University of Miami and New York University Law School. She was 
 GERTZ--Kathryn Rose, beloved wife of Benjamin Ira and adored and adoring mother of Maggie. Former United Nations Guide and prolific writer whose work appeared in leading magazines and newspapers, including The New York Times. She loved New York, delighted in Central Park, and relished music
 ARKIN--Tessie. April 10, 1912 to November 22, 2000. Mom, you have a most wonderful great-granddaughter, Mara & Mark's daughter. Her name is Tessie. With so much love, Joan       
 Anita O'Day, whose coolly ebullient and rhythmically assured vocal style made her a premier singer of both the big-band and postwar jazz eras, and whose taste for fast living secured her name as one of jazz's toughest survivors, died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 87. Her death w
 Betty Comden, who with her longtime collaborator Adolph Green wrote the lyrics and often the librettos for some of the most celebrated musicals of stage and screen, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said Ronald Konecky, her 
 WOLTER--Edith L. Born on January 13, 1914, in Berlin, she passed away on November 14. A beloved sister, mother, aunt, great-aunt and friend, she was a long time member of the Church of the Advent Hope, who opened her heart and her home to many. Memorial services will be held at the Church, 
 HUSIN--Bernice Spitalny, on her 96th birthday, November 23rd, 2006, peacefully at home. Devoted wife of the late Irvin Husin, loving mother of Carol and Margo and son-in-laws, David and Tony, adored by granddaughters Rachel and Abigail and greatgranddaughter Ilana. Service Sunday November 2
 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard, of 61 years, by their two children: Hilary
 Muriel Castanis, a sculptor whose fluidly draped figures are displayed in public places and galleries around the United States, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was lung failure, her husband, George Castanis, said. A self-t
 BOYER--Lucy Maiman (nee Wachtler), age 102, of NY, NJ, and FL. Passed peacefully Wednesday, November 22, 2006. Beloved wife, mother, aunt, great - grandmother, grandmother, and friend. She lived a full life, will be missed by many. Services will be private.       
 BREWER--Ann Wickes of Manchester-by-the-sea, MA, November 11, 2006 at home at the age of 84. Survived by her former husband, William C. Brewer of Galesville, MD, three children, the Honorable Gale A. Brewer of New York, Conant Brewer of Brookline, MA and Anita Brewer-Siljeholm of Manchester
 DIETZE--Joan MacDonald, age 85, of Greenville, DE, formerly of Greenwich, CT, died November 23rd, 2006 at Stonegates. She was preceded in death by her husband, John A. Dietze in 1994 and by her daughter, Gloria D. Thompson. She is survived by her children, John A. Dietze, Jr. of Williamstow
 GROSS--Gloria Lipson, of Great Neck, New York on November 19, 2006. Wife of Robert Gross, mother of Donald, Kenneth, and Jeffrey Gross and Betsy Hurowitz, sister of Joy Beal, grandmother of Lisa Gross and Noah Levine, mother-in-law of Su Kwak, Don Hurowitz, Julie Breskin. Community leader, 
 HUSIN--Bernice Spitalny, on her 96th birthday, November 23rd, 2006, peacefully at home. Devoted wife of the late Irvin Husin, loving mother of Carol and Margo and son-in-laws, David and Tony, adored by granddaughters Rachel and Abigail and greatgranddaughter Ilana. Service Sunday November 2
 KAVANAGH--Mary Joan. Former Director of Wagner Nursing Care, East 58th St., NY, formerly of Bruce, Gorey, Co. Wexford, died November 23, 2006 in Middletown Nursing Home, Courtown, Co. Wexford, Ireland. Deeply regretted by all her family and friends. Funeral Service was held Saturday at Rive
 LESSER--Virginia Hirst died in her sleep on November 18th at the Westhampton Care Center in Westhampton, New York. She was 94. Born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin on March 8, 1912, the daughter of an Episcopal clergyman, and raised in Lewistown, Montana where she played the organ in her father's 
 MEDINA--Barbara Florence (nee Hertz), 75, of Silver Spring, MD, died November 21 after a short illness. Born in New York City, April 5, 1931, a graduate of Evander Childs High School, Hunter College, and NYU, Barbara was a passionate innovator and pioneer. Her accomplishments include career
 METH--Jean (Blank), beloved mother to Marceline Rechter and her late husband, Mel Rechter, and ''Grams'' to her late, much adored grandsons, Richard and Jamie Rechter, passed away peacefully, November 11th. ''Mother'' to the world, Jean raised six younger brothers and a sister following the
 SINGSEN--Mary Ellen, 88, of Edgartown, MA, previously of Scarsdale, NY, and Winnetka and Glencoe, IL, November 19, 2006. An advocate for peace and justice all her life, and a lifelong lover of books, art, and music. Survived by her two brothers, four children, 11 grandchildren and four grea
 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard, of 61 years, by their two children: Hilary
 TOBIN--Rieva Leibowitz, of Pt. Charlotte, FL, and formerly of Hewlett Harbor, NY, passed away November 19th. She is survived by her husband Dr. Mark S. Tobin; children Jonathan (Tania) Tobin, Charles (Nancy) Tobin, and Pamela (Marc) Garron; grandchildren Samuel and Benjamin Tobin and Hayley
 WILLIAMSON--Helen M.D. On Saturday, November 11, 2006, Dr. Helen Thorworth Williamson died in the company of family, at home in Stamford, CT. Born in Irvington, NJ, on December 15, 1927, she was the daughter of the late John Andrew and Hazel (Tichenor) Thorworth. She was predeceased, in May
 SULZBERGER--Maye. Holding Dear our mother and grandmother 1 year after her passing. Maye's presence within us is strong and beloved. A stone was unveiled in her honor and memory November 9th at Beth El Cemetery (NY) with Rabbi Amy Erlich officiating.The Family       
 Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday. She was 90. Mrs. 
 BELL--Shirley of Lakewood, NJ, died on Friday, November 24, mother of Dianne Talbot (Chip) and James Bell. She was retired from Bronx Community College (Mathematics Dept). Services Monday, 4 to 6 pm, Bongarzone Funeral Home, 2400 Shafto Road, Tinton Falls, NJ.       
 COMDEN--Betty. The Offices, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Betty Comden. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this legendary lyricist, writer and performer and we extend our sincere condolences to her family. J
 FUIKS--Elizabeth Dodge Calder beloved mother, grandmother and friend died Sunday, November 19th in Vero Beach, Florida. The daughter of H. William and Katherine Dodge, she was predeceased by her husband of 46 years, Gordon S. Calder, Sr. and her second husband of 11 years, Lewis John (Jack)
 GERTZ--Kathryn Rose, beloved wife of Benjamin Ira and adored and adoring mother of Maggie. Former United Nations Guide and prolific writer whose work appeared in leading magazines and newspapers, including The New York Times. She loved New York, delighted in Central Park, and relished music
 LAKOFF--Evelyn, 74, on November 25 in San Diego. She had been President of the San Diego Early Music Society. She is survived by her husband, Sanford Lakoff, Professor Emeritus at the University of California, San Diego.       
 SCHLEIFMAN--Jean, 93, of Brooklyn, died November 26. She is survived by her beloved husband George, two children: Noel and Roslyn, three grandchildren, Adam, Shari, and Scott, two greatgrandchildren Ryan and Joshua, and her brother Sam Goldberg. Funeral services, Monday, November 27, 1:30pm
 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard, of 61 years, by their two children: Hilary
 ARMISTEAD--Margaret Skinner, died peacefully on November 24, 2006. She was a devoted wife of the late George Armistead, loving mother of Clayton, William, and Margaret, and doting grandmother to Andrew and Peter Selig. All who knew Peggy were touched by her kindness, grace, and decency. A m
 Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday. She was 90. Mrs. 
 Bebe Moore Campbell, a best-selling novelist known for her empathetic treatment of the difficult, intertwined and occasionally surprising relationship between the races, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 56. The cause was complications of brain cancer, said Linda Wh
 BURMAN--Dorothy, her valiant struggle with cancer ended on November 27. After retiring from teaching English at Stuyvesant High School Dottie became an award winning lyricist songwriter and entertainer. We will all miss her. Services noon Wednesday, November 29, Plaza Jewish Community Chape
 COMDEN--Betty. The Steinhardt School at New York University mourns the death of our beloved alumna Betty Comden. A mentor to our musical theater students and a good friend of our school, Betty's music and movies were an inspiration to us all. We gave her a classic education in ''Shakespeare
 DOMITROVICH--Mary. On November 26, 2006. Adored wife of the late Louis Domitrovich. Loving mother of Katherine, Edward and Barbara Ann. Beloved grandmother to 11 wonderful grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. She will be buried in OH. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in her 
 DWYER--Kathleen, Ann. Of New York City and more recently, Naples, FL, died on Friday, November 24 in Naples following a lengthy illness. She is survived by her parents, Jack and Nancy Dwyer of Naples, her brother, Cullen Dwyer of Baltimore, MD, her sister, Mary Benoit of Auburn, MI and many
 ELOWITZ--Gertrude, at 92, on November 22, in New York City. Devoted geriatric social worker, last worked at Community Service Society. Beloved cousin and good friend to many. Loving sister of the late Bessie and Morris Elowitz. She was loved and will be missed.       
 GORDON--Lynne Lewin died peacefully at home November 26th after a short illness. Loving wife of the late Al Gordon, wonderful mother to Diane and Ronni Gordon, mother-in-law to David Koven and devoted sister to Margaret Borofsky and sister-inlaw to William Grossman. Beloved grandmother of B
 VILLAMAR--Elena Kerr. Born April 23, 1924 in Mexico and died Sunday, November 26th in New York with her daughter holding her hand, as she would have wanted it. She was self-taught and well read. Having been deprived of formal education herself and widowed young, she worked all of her life a
 WAGNER--Phyllis Cerf, New York Legal Assistants Group (NYLAG) mourns the loss of one of its earliest donors and ardent supporters, Phyllis Cerf Wagner. We are proud to have benefited from her philanthropy. We extend our deepest sympathies to Chris, Jonathan, Roseann and Duncan. Kathryn O. G
 FINKELSTEIN--Yetta (nee Klieger). New York Metropolitan region, The United Synagog of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of Yetta Finkelstein mother of our past President Harvey Finkelstein our condolences to the entire family, may her memory be for a blessing. Irwin Scharf President. 
 HALLETT--Constance Carpenter of Dorset, VT died November 21st of complications of a stroke. This beloved lady was the wife of E. Bruce Hallett, and the mother of Christine, Patricia, Gay, Bruce, Thomas and Laurence. She is also survived by her brother Laurence Carpenter. She was a great lad
 SILVERMAN--Wendy Sue Hewitt. Extraordinary human being. Sisters by choice. Beautiful within and without. We were blessed with her presence and will forever miss her love, goodness, and intelligence. She left an indelible mark on all of us. We love you. -Nancy and Family       
 BAIN--Linda Miller died peacefully at her home in Southold, NY on November 19, 2006 in the presence of her family. She is survived by her husband of 47 years, Alan Lind Bain, her daughter, Heather Lind Bain, her son, Ian Alexander Lind Bain, her daughter-in-law, Jill Calabrese Bain, and twi
 BURMAN--Dorothy, her valiant struggle with cancer ended on November 27. After retiring from teaching English at Stuyvesant High School Dottie became an award winning lyricist songwriter and entertainer. We will all miss her. Services noon Wednesday, November 29, Plaza Jewish Community Chape
 COMDEN--Betty. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the death of Betty Comden, one of our most beloved members. As her colleagues, we valued not only the intelligence and flair of her work as a lyricist and book-writer for musicals, but the effortless grace and good-humor she possessed as a 
 ROWE--Alicia Jane (nee Steeves), 77, of Rumson, NJ, died Sunday, November 26, of an incurable blood disease, myelofibrosis. Alicia was born in Mineola, LongIsland to Asa Bertram Steeves and Gladys Pickard Steeves. Alicia grew up in Merrick, NY and Metuchen, NJ, spending her summers in and a
 WAGNER--Phyllis, Cerf. Dear Phyllis you have left a large void in my life. I will miss you. C $(6$)WAGNER--Phyllis Cerf. The Governor's Committee on Scholastic Achievement (GCSA) mourns the loss of one of its founders and longtime supporters, Phyllis Cerf Wagner. A woman of uncommon
 WANG--Emma The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Elaine Blech. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 HUFFORD--Susan. The Board of Directors and staff of The ALS Association Greater New York Chapter and The National Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our esteemed board member Susan Hufford. Susan was a passionate advocate for people with ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease). As President of Michael 
 LUX--Eva left us peacefully on November 29th 2006 after a long and remarkable life of 921/2 years. Music was at the center of her spiritual and intellectual life. She touched everyone who met her with her warmth, charm and exceptional generosity. She will be deeply missed by many friends an
 MATTUS--Rose. We mourn the loss of a very special lady. Long time friends forever and beyond-we will miss you. Roz and Jerry Gersten, and our family. MATTUS--Rose In memorial to a Woman of Valor, to a dear and beloved friend. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion an
 SCHOR--Resia. Born in Poland, December 5, 1910, died November 26, NYC. She studied painting at the Academy of Fine Arts, Warsaw, married artist Ilya Schor in Paris. Escaping occupied France they settled in NYC in 1941. She exhibited paintings in the 1950s as Resia Ain. Since Ilya Schor's de
 SHAPIRO--Lillian Watman, After a long illness, Lillian Watman Shapiro passed away on the evening of November 20, 2006. Mrs. Shapiro was born on February 6, 1915 in Brooklyn, New York. She was the daughter of Anna Salzman Watman and Harry Watman. Her husband George Shapiro and her brother Ir
 WAGNER--Phyllis Cerf, New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) mourns the loss of one of its earliest donors and ardent supporters, Phyllis Cerf Wagner. We are proud to have benefited from her philanthropy. We extend our deepest sympathies to Chris, Jonathan, Roseann and Duncan. Kathryn O. G
 GELENIAN-WOOD--Teresa November 19th, age 51, of Montclair, NJ, internationally recognized artist, and contemporary metalsmith. For the last year, Terri has been fighting a battle with malignant peritoneal mesothelioma--a rare cancer caused by exposure to asbestos. Terri was born June 10, 19
