 Jeanne-Marie Darre, a French pianist whose interpretations of Chopin and Liszt solo works and the Saint-Saens Concertos were admired for their sophistication and interpretive inventiveness, died on Jan. 26 in Port Marly, France, where she lived. She was 93. Miss Darre was an elegant
 Mirra Komarovsky, a sociologist who was an innovative authority on gender, family and education, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93. Professor Komarovsky retired in 1970 after 32 years on the faculty of Barnard College. But she returned to B
 FINKELSTEIN-Miriam. Died January 30 after a brief illness. She was the widow of Dr. James H. Finkelstein, mother of Anne and David Finkelstein, grandmother of Joanna Acevedo. Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Radcliffe College, she was an author who had published many poems and one novel and was a
 NAGELSMITH - Bernice. Died peacefully at home on January 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis Nagelsmith. Loving mother of Barbara Nagelsmith and Carole Greenberg. Grandmother of Danna Greenberg and the late Michael Jon Greenberg, great-grandmother of Micaela Tobin and a caring friend. 
 NAYFACK-Emma Kayden, 93, passed away on January 29, 1999, in New York. Wife of the late Bertram S. Nayfack. Survived by daugher Elizabeth and son Bertram, and grandson Nicholas, and many nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by her five sisters and three brothers.       
 WOLFF-Arlene G. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BAUMAN-Esther. On January 31, 1999 at the very end of her 97 year. A wonderful mom dearly loved by daughters Maida Sperling and Judi Barrett, son-in-law Gery, Dick, granddaughters Valerie and Amy and sister-in-law Julia.       
 DICKSTEIN-Minnie. January 31st. Age 92. Wife of the late Morris. Mother of Jay and Stephen, daughters-in-law Diane and Ruth, granddaughters Ilyse, Deborah, Lori and Michelle, great grandson Benjamin, sister Sylvia, brother Herbie and many loving nieces and nephews. Funeral Tuesday, 9:30, I.
 HIRSCH-Sally. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Sally Hirsch, wife of the late Joseph. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her sons, Judd and Roland, her grandchildren, and great grandchildren. May your 
 KLINGER-Meira. On January 30, 1999 after a courageous battle with cancer. Meira died peacefully at home. A dynamic, intelligent and compassionate lady living her life with unequaled zest and sincerity, she injected everyone she knew with energy and joy. To keep alive the memory of her beaut
 MILANO-Rachel, 91. On January 31st, 1999, at home. Beloved widow of Paolo, mother of Andrew and wife Joan, grandmother of the late Daniel and wife Laura, Eric and Amy. She earned a Doctorate in English Literature from the University of Rome where she taught until the passage of anti-semitic
 MOTT-Ruth Rawlings. Women and families worldwide have lost a lifelong champion. The staff and volunteers of Planned Parenthood Federation of America deeply mourn the death of Ruth R. Mott, a long-time Planned Parenthood supporter who belived that all people were entitled to health, opportun
 MULHOLLAND-Ann M., Ph.D., S.I. Retired Professor of Speech Linguistics at the Columbia University Teachers College. Memorials in her name may be made to the Oblate Carmalite Sisters, 15 Mt. Carmel Drive, Danvers, MA 01923. For information, W.S. Cavanaugh & Son Funeral Home, Wilimington, MA 
 RENDIGS-Jean. On January 30, 1999, beloved wife of the late Charles Jr., and mother of Charles III. Interment private. Memorial service at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue at 91st Street Thursday, February 4th at 4 P.M. Contributions in her memory may be made to Brick Presbyterian Chu
 ROBERTS-Bernice. A kind friend to all. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Adam and Diane. Loving sister of Edith and Dr. Jerry Oberman. Services 12 noon Tuesday at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, N.Y. ROBERTS-Bernice. The Board of Trustees, Me
 ROSENFIELD - Joan (Brown). January 30, 1999, of Foster City, CA. (formerly of Valley Cottage, N.Y., and the Bronx). Mourned by her husband, two sons, mother, brother, daughter-in-law, sister-inlaw, niece, nephew, 22 first cousins and countless friends everywhere. An extraordinary person muc
 ROSKEIN-Florence (Solomon), on February 1, 1999 at home. Beloved wife of the late David Roskein. Loving mother of Nancy Vines, Sheila Kronisch and Leonard J. Felzenberg. Beloved grandmother of seven and great-grandmother of ten. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81
 SALETAN-Shirley (Goodman). Died peacefully Sunday, January 31st, 1999 in Hollywood, Florida. She was the cherished wife of the late Abraham Goodman and the devoted wife of Harold Saletan, the beloved daughter of Alexander & Jenny Auerbach, the adored mother of Gerald and Dossie Goodman, Mar
 SUTER-Janice L. 53, died January 29, 1999 in Venice, FL of breast cancer. President of Suter Associates, an executive search firm in Stamford, CT, she resided in NYC from 1968 until 1988 and worked at J.C. Penney Co. She belonged to the Sandbar Beach Club of Quogue, the Junior League, NYC, 
 TAGLIAMONTE - August (Lamont). We deeply mourn the sudden and tragic passing of August Tagliamonte. The musicians, staff and Board of the the Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York extend heartfelt sympathy to our dear colleague and friend, Lee Lamont, her daughter Leslie, and their enti
 WARTUR-Ethel. Loving and beloved mother of Lewis J. Horowitz, dear grandmother of Jay and Stephen. Her spirit and sense of humor will be a lasting memory for all who knew and loved her. Contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Child Life Program, 1275 York Ave, NY NY 10021. Int
 WEISER-Eileen, 70. Of Chappaqua, NY, passed away Sunday, January 31, 1999. A loving mother, supportive friend, businesswoman and teacher, Eileen was born on January 31, 1929 in New York City. She is survived by her daughter, Jane Weiser Kleinman, and husband, Dan, of Chappaqua, NY, their ch
 BOSSAK-Carolyn Gartenberg. Of Scarsdale, NY on February 1, 1999, age 95 years. Wife of the late Alvin Bossak who died in 1985. Carolyn attended Punahou School in Honolulu, Hawaii. She graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 1925. She is survived by one daughter, Jane (and W
 GEBELOFF-Mildred, 75. Beloved wife of the late Harry for 53 beautiful years. Devoted mother of Candy and Joy and mother-in-law of Richard. Dedicated and loving grandmother of Andrew, Michael, Jonathan, Robert and Amanda. Cherished aunt and sister. We will miss her, but she will remain in ou
 GRILLO-Joann. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of Joann Grillo. During her twenty seasons with the Met, she sang nearly 300 performances in a broad range of roles. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Richard, and her family. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Lev
 KOMAROVSKY-Mirra. The Barnard College community is deeply saddened by the death of Mirra Komarovsky, alumna and distinguished teacher associated with the College for 77 of her 93 years. A living legend to generations of young women, she was never out of touch with their concerns and always 
 McKENNA-Florence. With great sadness and fond memories, we mourn the sudden loss of a good friend, a much appreciated and respected colleague and a very special person. Florence spent her entire career, spanning four decades, at Bristol-Myers Squibb. For most of it, with extraordinary skill
 RENDIGS-Jean. On January 30, 1999, beloved wife of the late Charles Jr., and mother of Charles III. Interment private. Memorial service at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue at 91st Street Thursday, February 4th at 4 P.M. Contributions in her memory may be made to Brick Presbyterian Chu
 RICE-Madeleine Newman Hooke. Of New York City. Peacefully passed on February 4 in her daughter's home, Manlius, N.Y. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick W. Rice. Mother of the late Alessandra Rice, SHCJ, Madeleine Finnerty and Megan Rice, SHCJ. Sister of Walter G. Hooke of Cambri
 SALETAN-Shirley (Goodman). Died peacefully Sunday, January 31st, 1999 in Hollywood, Florida. She was the cherished wife of the late Abraham Goodman and the devoted wife of Harold Saletan, the beloved daughter of Alexander & Jenny Auerbach, the adored mother of Gerald and Dossie Goodman, Mar
 Joann Grillo, a mezzo-soprano who sang in nearly 300 performances with the Metropolitan Opera over a career of some 20 years, died on Monday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 59 and lived in Brooklyn. She had been recuperating from recent surgery when she suffered a 
 Marion Boyars, an independent publisher whose eclectic and internationally minded list of authors included at least four Nobel Prize winners, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said. In an industry increasingly popul
 GILLETTE-Stanley C. On Thursday, February 4. Beloved husband of Joan, adored father of Richard, Patty, and her husband Steve Norman. Loving grandfather of Kyle, Blake, Holly and Jasara. Greatgrandfather of Zachary. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday
 HANEY-Mary Hamilton. On February 3, 1999. At the Consolation Residence, West Islip. Resident of Ridge, N.Y. Wife of the late George Jacob Haney of Newark, N.J. Associated with the Bank of Manhattan/Chase Manhattan Bank for 52 years. Survived by her brother Rev. Msgr. Daniel S. Hamilton and 
 JACKLIN-Carol. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Carol, wife of our esteemed member Irving, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President JACKLIN-Carole. Dear
 JANSON-Dorothy W. on February 2, 1999 in Stamford, CT. She was predeceased by her loving husband of 45 years Helge Janson. Beloved mother of J. Fred, Hank A., Peter S., & Thomas H. Janson. Beloved sister of John Burgess. Also survived by 12 grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Born a
 KOPMAN-Sylvia. February 3rd, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Barbara Reisner and Elaine Glickman. Loving grandmother to Jacqueline and Allison. Mother-inlaw of Larry and Leo. May she rest in peace at long last.       
 KUNSTADT-Gerda. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MCHUGH-Dorothy Spencer. Of Cos Cob, CT died as she wished at home on February 4. She was ninety-three. Wife of the late Frank McHugh. Mother of Peter and the late Susan and Michael, grandmother of Caitlin and Joshua, great grandmother of Calder. Funeral is private. Her generous, gracious an
 ROSENFIELD-Joan Carole, 60. She is survived by her devoted and loving husband Ted, mother Sylvia, sons Howard & Jonathan, daughter-in-law Jennifer, brother Roy, sister-in-law Jane, five aunts, three uncles, a nephew, a niece, numerous cousins, friends and former students. Teacher NYC and Ny
 SISKIND-Deborah. On February 3, in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved wife of the late David Siskind. Mother of Stephen Siskind and Marcia Weinstein. Grandmother and great-grandmother. Sister of Ruth Bernhardt and Libby Silverstein. Devoted teacher and counselor to thousands of New York City scho
 STEINBERG-Janet E., 76, long time resident of Highland Park, IL. She is survived by her children Jay (Denise) Steinberg, and Jill (William) Guenin, her grandchildren Jason, Jeffrey, Julie, Karen, Lisa, and Marlee, Brother Myron (Betty) Gold. All Funeral services will be private. The family 
 VIVIAN-Harriet Yerxa, 96, formerly of Westport, Connecticut, died January 26, at the Prescott House Nursing Home in North Andover, MA. She was born in Watertown, MA, attended Watertown public schools, was a graduate of Radcliffe College Class of 1924, and received a master's degree in 1926.
 Lili St. Cyr, the tall, blond beauty who left almost nothing to the imagination when she stepped dripping wet out of her signature onstage bubble bath, died on Jan. 29 at her apartment in Hollywood. She was 80. In a field that began when a Syrian beauty who called herself Little Egy
 ASHERMAN-Beatrice. February 4, 1999. Beloved mother and grandmother, who has left her family and friends with a lifetime of loving memories. She was devoted to the needs of Asthmatic children and worked tirelessly as a lifetime member and then Trustee of The New York Chapter of the National
 MAX-Pearl Bernstein, at age 94. Devoted wife of the late Louis William Max, beloved mother of Claire Max of Berkeley, CA, grandmother of Samuel Arons, mother-in-law of Jonathan Arons, sister of Seymour and Ira Bernstein, Hilda Morris and Betty Bernstein. Mayor LaGuardia's first woman secret
 RAYMOND-Dorothy Ann. On February 5, 1999. Beloved mother of Monica, Denise, Katherine and Margaret. Wife of the late Boris Raymond. Devoted sister of Morton Silk. Proud mother-in-law of Charles Lewitz and Mark Sidel. Adoring grandmother of Rosemary, Theadora, and Daniel. Lifelong friend of 
 ALLEN-Carolyn Yorke. On January 31, 1999, in her eighty-ninth year. Survived by her sister-in-law Lib (Mrs. Yorke Allen), Jr., four nieces, Ethel, Dee, Franny, and Mary, and six nephews, Arthur, Hap, Derry, Yorke, David and Roger. Service Saturday, February 13, 12:30 P.M., St. James' Church
 ASHERMAN-Beatrice. The officers and members of New York Chapter National Jewish Medical and Research Center mourn the loss of our friend and president, Bea Asherman. Her presence and leadership will be missed. Our sympathy to her family.       
 Di GRAZIA-Phyllis Grunes. The family regrets to announce her passing on February 4, 1999. She is survived by her husband Peter, daughters Sara and Gemma, sonsin-law John and Paul, grandchildren Thomas and Sam, step-daughter Zoe, and brother Mark. Her love and vitality enriched the lives of 
 FRIEDMAN-Anne Price. Age 88, on February 5, 1999. Beloved mother of Phyllis Mack and David J. Friedman. Loving grandmother of Alexander H. Mack, Nicholas R. Mack, Ariel K. Friedman and great-grandmother of Rebecca A. Mack. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., 
 GREENMAN-Freda. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Greenman and daughter of the late William and Rose Schulder. Loving sister of the late Mannie and Joseph Schulder, the late Ricky Singer and Jack and Paul Schulder. Devoted mother of the late Helene Klein and the late Myra Davidson. Mother-in-
 LIPSIG-Dr. Florence Steinhaus, died peacefully at her New York City home on February 3, 1999. She is survived by her daughter, Dana Lipsig of New York City; a sister, Pearl Sullivan of Hackensack, New Jersey; her brother, Henry Steinhaus of Sarasota, FL; her nephews, Peter M. Steinhaus of O
 MAGESIS-Esther. Died on February 5, in Coral Springs, FL, at the age of 80. Devoted wife for 55 years of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Richard and Duffy. Adored Grandma of Nick and Cassie. Dear mother-in-law of Peg and Meryl. Esther's love and high spirits will be sorely missed by her 
 NEAGLE-Julia S. Longtime resident of Manhattan and East Hampton, NY, died January 23, 1999 at St. Luke's Hospital, NY of therapeutic complications. She was 80 years old. She was born Julia Miller Snow, daughter of Dr. Irving Snow and Violetta Pierce Snow of Buffalo, NY. She married Francis 
 NEUBARDT-Blanche. (nee Miller). Peacefully in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Neubardt, cherished mother of Dr. Selig Neubardt, (Saundra), and the late Maxine Hahn, dear grandmother and great-grandmother.       
 ROSENBERG - Gertrude, 82. Passed away peacefully at home in Huntington, New York, Tuesday, February 2nd, 1999. Loving wife of Abraham. Mother of Beth Reichert and Toby Sitko. Grandmother of Mara Reisman. Loved by all who lives she touched. Contributions may be made to the Huntington Breast 
 SCHNELL-Elinor. On January 24, 1999. Beloved wife of Al. Mother of Linda (John), Barbara (Al), Amy (Larry) and Jacqueline. Adored grandmother of Joshua, Sarah, Michelle, Rachel, Adam, Zachary and Emily. Loving Aunt, sister-inlaw & friend. Dedicated daughter and sister. Teacher extraordinair
 USDAN-Myrna Joy. Passed away on January 31, 1999 in Palm Beach, Florida, at age 68. Adored wife of Jerome Usdan, loving mother of Joan Kottler, Felice Little, Valerie Rubenstein Sharfman and Maxine Usdan. Loving sister of Henry Goldin. Dearly loved by grandchildren Kayla and Darcy Kottler a
 WEISENFELD-Hilda. Daughter of the late Rabbi Philip Flatow and wife of the late Harry. Beloved mother of Joseph and the late David. Devoted grandmother of Jill, Neil and Joshua. Mother-in-law of Judith and the late Leonore Weisenfeld. Dear sister-in-law of Frances Flatow and Sylvia Weisenfe
 ZINGMAN-Bessie. Of West Palm Beach, FL, died January 21, 1999, at 80 years of age. A devoted wife and mother, she suffered life's slings and arrows with dignity, she was obdurate of fools. She will be remembered by those who loved her. Jeffrey S. Mahl, Esq., Del Rio, Texas       
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. June 4, 1930-February 7, 1997. Beloved sister, mother, aunt, friend. May her memory be for a blessing.       
 Indrani, a distinguished dancer who familiarized Americans with several styles of India's classical dance as a performer and teacher, died on Friday in Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Sukanya Wicks, sai
 ALBERTINA - F. Mount. Of Bradenton, FL, and New York City. Formerly of Glen Rock. Died February 1. Before retiring, she was a librarian for the Wheeler Ophthalmology Institute Library, New York City. She was a member of the West Side Presbyterian Church, Ridgewood, NJ. A graduate of Hunter 
 HABER-Janet. Beloved wife of late Leonard. Devoted mother of David, Jeffrey, Michael and Robert. Cherished sister and mother-in-law. Adored grandmother of William, Jessica, Eric, Brianna, Joshua and Lindsay. Janet was a wonderful, caring person. She will be sadly mourned but remembered fore
 MITCHELL-Margaret (nee Brennan). Age 71, of Ridgefield, CT, formerly of Greenwich, CT, died on February 6, 1999, in Ridgefield. Born July 10, 1927, in Neponsit, Long Island, Margaret was a 1949 graduate of Manhattanville College, with a major in music and English literature. Margaret marrie
 NEAGLE-Julia S. Longtime resident of Manhattan and East Hampton, NY, died January 23, 1999 at St. Luke's Hospital, NY of therapeutic complications. She was 80 years old. She was born Julia Miller Snow, daughter of Dr. Irving Snow and Violetta Pierce Snow of Buffalo, NY. She married Francis 
 OSBORNE-May Minturn S. Beloved wife of Frederik R-L. Osborne on February 6, in Beaufort, SC. She was the adored mother of Samuel, Christopher, Elizabeth, Lithgow and Minturn Osborne, Sarah Edgar, and Lucretia Wells. Mrs. Osborne was Chairman of the Auburn Housing Authority from 1971 to 1997
 SCHWARTZ-Maxine Edith. Beloved wife of the late George, loving mother of Stephen and Michael, loving mother-in-law of Ellen. Beloved grandmother of Liza, Bennett and Joseph, dear sister of Silvia Paulson and the late Norman Berman. Dear sister-in-law of Gladys Schwartz and Nettie Stein, ado
 Iris Murdoch, a prodigiously inventive and idiosyncratic British writer whose 26 novels offered lively plots, complex characters and intellectual speculation, died yesterday at a nursing home in Oxford, England. She was 79 and had Alzheimer's disease. Her struggle with Alzheimer's w
 FOGLIA-Joan. In the last days of her 35 year life shortened by smoking, Joan Foglia courageously dedicated herself to preventing similar smoking tragedies in young girls and women. By lectures, TV appearances and news articles, she told of her impending death from lung cancer and how she wi
 FRANK-Edith (Burstein), educator, on February 7, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Howard. Loving mother of Laurie. Dear aunt of Alan, Laura, Rachel and Evan Burstein. Services Tuesday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. FRANK-Edith. It is with sadness that
 GUSTARD-Beryl A. Died peacefully at home on February 4, 1999 after a courageous four-year battle with colon cancer. Surviving Beryl is her husband, Brian, her mother, Elsie, and sister, Carole. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Fox Chase Cancer Center, Room C223, 7701 Burholme
 HABER-Janet. Beloved wife of late Leonard. Devoted mother of David, Jeffrey, Michael and Robert. Cherished sister and mother-in-law. Adored grandmother of William, Jessica, Eric, Brianna, Joshua and Lindsay. Janet was a wonderful, caring person. She will be sadly mourned but remembered fore
 HECHT-Hannah A. On February 7, 1999. The heavens literally poured their grief for Hannah. Adored wife of Irvin Sulo Hecht. Loving mother of Marc Gradstein, Judith Hecht and Jane Gorman. Endeared grandmother of David, Diana and Alyssa Gradstein. She leaves a host of friends. How fortunate ar
 INDRANI-The Juilliard School notes with sadness of the loss of its long-time faculty member, dancer, teacher and historian, Indrani. A passionate and playful advocate for her native arts, and an exquisite artist on the stage, Indrani brought to life varied dance forms for a generation of st
 JOVINO-Philomena. Of Staten Island, New York, age ninety, formerly of Manhattan and Brooklyn. Died February 7, 1999. Born in Manhattan, second daughter of John Jovino, a supplier of police equipment in lower Manhattan, & Clothilde Astorita. Taught piano for over 50 years in Brooklyn and Sta
 LEVIN-Edith Schoenfeld. On February 7, 1999. We enjoyed each other for more than 53 years as friends, companions, and lovers. I will miss her terribly I've lost my wife I've lost my life Arthur (Archie) Levin       
 MAUER-Margaret Isabelle, at age 89. Of Boca Raton, died on Saturday, February 6, 1999. Formerly of Matawan, NJ, Mrs. Mauer has been a resident of Florida since 1968. Isabelle attended Penn State University and graduated from the New Jersey State Teachers College, and then taught for the Lin
 MOUNT-Albertina F. Of Bradenton, Florida, and New York City. Formerly of Glen Rock. Died on February 1. Before retiring, she was a librarian for the Wheeler Ophthalmology Institute Library, New York City. She was a member of the West Side Presbyterian Church, Ridgewood, New Jersey. A gradua
 SCHWARTZ-Maxine Edith. Beloved wife of the late George, loving mother of Stephen and Michael, loving mother-in-law of Ellen. Beloved grandmother of Liza, Bennett and Joseph, dear sister of Silvia Paulson and the late Norman Berman. Dear sister-in-law of Gladys Schwartz, Edith Drake and Nett
 SOLOMON-May W. Of Environ, FL, passed away on February 7, 1999. She is survived by her husband Irving, her loved children, Theodore, Warren, Erica, her niece Gayle, and daughter-in-law Anne Marie. By profession a master teacher K-12; an honored member of the International Society of Poets, 
 STERN-Ida (nee Maloff), on February 8, 1999 of Cherry Hill, N.J. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Nathan L. (Elaine) Stern & Gladys (Eugene) Morse. Also survived by four grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to services 2PM, Wednesd
 WEILL-Lisbeth G. On Feb. 7, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Harold Weill, mother of Patricia Park of Brookline, MA., Judith Weber and Victoria Weill-Hagai of NYC, grandmother of Pamela, Mark, Eric and Lisa. Funeral services private. Donations may be made to the Children's Blood Foundation, 3
 WILTSHIRE-Carmen S. Age 73, died on February 5th, 1999 in Las Vegas, NV. Originally from NYC, she had lived in Las Vegas for 17 years. She is survived by husband, Raymond Wiltshire, two sons, Raymond Wilshire, Jr. and Garland Jeffreys. Services to be held February 10 at Hites Chapel, Las Ve
 ASHERMAN-Bea. National Jewish Medical and Reserach Center in Denver, CO. mourns the passing of Bea Asherman, tireless volunteer and champion of children with asthma and other respiratory illnesses. A supporter of National Jewish for over fifty-five years, she was a Charter Member and Presid
 BLIDNER-Toddy. Passed away February 9, 1999 in her 85th year. Beloved wife of the late Nat. Mother of Johanna (Marty) and Steven (Wendy). Grandmother of Julie, Susie, Bonnie, Neil, Evan and Rachelle. Funeral service Schwartz Bros Chapel, 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, Thursday, Febr
 CRAMES-Barbara S. Beloved wife of Charles, loving mother of Jonathan, Peter, Elizabeth and her husband, James. Dear sister of George Steinberg. Loving grandmother of Daniel and Paul. Family will receive friends at 11 Ethelridge Road, White Plains, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evening.
 FEHRER-Elizabeth Vanderbilt, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus, Brooklyn College. On February 7, 1999. Age 90. Of Haverford, PA., formerly of New York City. Survived by her sister Catherine Fehrer of Lyme, CT. A memorial meeting will be later. Contributions in her memory may be sent to W.I.L.P.F., 3
 JENNINGS-Marion (nee Barry). Of the Osborn Home in Rye, formerly of New York City. Wife of the late Samuel S. Died Sunday, February 7, 1999. She is lovingly remembered by her granddaughter Susan Salter Reynolds and her three great grandchildren Samuel Christopher Reynolds, Eleanor Salter Re
 JOYCE-Clare. February 6, 1999, in Harrisburg, PA. Survived by husband, John Michael Joyce IV, and children, Suzanne, Jack, Kate, Tommy. Also survived by her parents, Thomas and Suzanne Reynolds, and eight brothers and sisters. Services will be held in Winnetka, IL. on February 10. Contribut
 MORSE-Shirley (nee Cotler). A former resident of Queens, N.Y. and Hollywood, Fla. At 86. Died on February 8th, at the Greenbriar Terrace Healthcare Nursing Home in Nashua, N.H. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence (Lou). Devoted mother to Michael, Alan and Susan. Cherished sister of Samuel and
 SHENGHIT-Betty, February 9, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Max Shenghit. Loving mother of Cliff and Susan and her husband Arthur Bookbinder. Dear grandmother of Jeffrey and Seth. Devoted sister of the late Nat Dobkin, the late Lou Dobkin, the late Mike Dobkin and the late Rose Shapiro. She 
 STRICK-Rosalind H. At the age of 97, devoted and adoring wife of the late Charles Strick, loving mother, grandmother, great grandmother and aunt. Dedicated and much admired piano teacher. Her steadfast loyalty, courage and generosity were an inspiration to all who knew her.       
 TOBIAS-Betty T. Beloved wife and companion of the late Sidney for 67 years. Loving mother of the late Frederica Baer Tobias. She is survived by her brother-in-law Morton, four grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. Services will be held today at 11AM at Calverton National Cemetery.     
 Pearl Bernstein Max, who played a central role in melding the New York City municipal colleges into today's City University of New York, died Thursday in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 94. In 1938, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed Mrs. Max -- known as Pe
 CARLSON-Joan Voorhees. Of Huntington Station on February 9, 1999. Born NYC on February 16, 1931. Graduate of the Methodist Hospital School of Nursing in Brooklyn, 1951. BS in Nursing, NYU 1957; MS NYU 1959. Member of the National Nursing Honor Society, Sigma Theta Tau. Beloved daughter of t
 NASSIMI-Malek. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its member, Malek Nassimi, and extends its heartfelt condolences to her entire bereaved family. May they be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Mark
 ULLNICK-Sylvia. Died peacefully on February 9, just short of her 96th birthday. Beloved daughter of the late Abraham & Mary. Loving sister to Arnold and the late Ralph. Dear aunt to Roy, Burton, Alice and Susan. Adored by her great nieces and nephews, Amy, Gwen, Marlene, Abby, Mathew, Lawre
 WOLF-Pearl Sarah (nee Morris) age 90, of West Orange, New Jersey. Born on October 14, 1908 in Plainfield, NJ, died peacefully on February 10, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jacob William Wolf. Adored mother of Adrianne Wolf Silver of New York City and Margaret Wolf Kohn of Ra'nanna, Israel 
 ALLEN-Carolyn Yorke. On January 31, 1999, in her eighty-ninth year. Survived by her sister-in-law Lib (Mrs. Yorke Allen, Jr.), four nieces, Ethel, Dee, Franny, and Mary, and six nephews, Arthur, Hap, Derry, Yorke, David and Roger. Service Saturday, February 13, 12:30 P.M., St. James' Church
 APTAKIN-Jean Eisenkoff. Dear wife of Peter. Loving mother of Karen Stigler and Margaret Tarmy. Devoted grandmother of Sam, Thomas, and Charlie Stigler, and Henry, James, George and Zoe Tarmy. She will be forever missed by her family and friends. Contributions to Norris Cotton Cancer Center,
 CHOPP - HAWRYLAK - Olga. The Cornerstone School of Jersey City mourns the passing of its treasured benefactor and friend, and extends heartfelt sympathy to Marianne Chopp and her family.       
 FRIED-Rosalie (nee Goode). Of Haworth, NJ. Beloved wife of Paul. Cherished daughter of Theresa Kaplan and the late Rabbi Alexander Goode. Devoted mother of Alexander, Karen and Sarah. Services from Temple Beth El, 221 Schraalenburgh Rd., Closter, NJ today at 1 PM. Contributions to Immortal 
 MEISTER-Sheba Annette. On February 11, 1999. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Robert and David Meister and Donna Freeman. Dear sister of Eleanor Carroll and the late Clarence Daniels. Adoring grandmother of Gary, Randall, Deborah and Danielle Meister, and Mark Freeman. Service Frida
 PENNEBAKER-Sylvia Bell of New York City and Sag Harbor, L.I., died at home in Manhattan on February 5 after a lengthy illness. Beloved daughter of the late Samuel and Isabel Bell of Chestnut Hill, PA, and Coconut Grove, FL, she is survived by her 3 devoted children: Stacy, Frazer and Linley
 RICHMOND-Else. On Saturday February 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo R. Richmond, mother of Edith R. Schwartz of Washington, DC, & the late Judith Berman at the age of 98 years. Mother-in-law of Simon Berman and Juan Bellantoni. Loving grandmother of Michael, Sandra, Lisa, Vicki, M
 ROTH-Flora. Died peacefully on February 2, 1999, after a long battle with lung disease, blindness and other health problems. She was a feisty and independent 84 years old. Born in Chicago, IL, the only child of Louis and Frieda Freiman, she followed in her father's footsteps and started act
 SILBERFELD-Margaret W. Dear wife of the late Irving. Beloved mother of the late Nancy. Dear sister of John Weil. Loving aunt of Jane France. Adored mother-inlaw of Ken Narva (Gale). Cherished grandmother of Jennifer Lifschutz (Craig), Rachel Narva and Carly Narva. Loved by all who knew her,
 SILVERMAN-Betty Sue (nee Goldin), on February 9. She was a wonderful, warm and loving person and a vital part of the community. She had a great laugh and made everyone feel special and important. To have known her is a privilege. Our love to her family who she treasured above all: Gene, Jud
 STOUMEN-Marilyn N. (nee Schaumburg). On February 10, 1999. Age 71 of Blue Bell, PA. Formerly of New Orleans. Beloved wife of the late Raymond. Loving mother of Michael H. (Ann Lin), Lisa N. Lukens (Timothy H.) and Susan Manya Tolino (Michael A.). Relatives and friends are invited to her fun
 SZUCHMAN-Marjorie Irene. Of Chestnut Ridge, NY. Passed away Wednesday, February 10, 1999. She was 54 years old. Margie was born on August 17, 1944, in the Bronx to Charles and Rae Fried. On August 23, 1964, she and Harold Szuchman were married at The Fountainhead in Westchester. Harold pass
 Midi Garth, a modern-dance choreographer and performer known for her individuality, died on Jan. 28 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. She was 83. Ms. Garth came to prominence in the mid-1950's with dances notable for a spareness and precision of gesture unusual in a time
 CHIANG-Vicki. On February 12, 1999. Beloved daughter of I.H. and Doreen Chiang. Loving sister of Leo, Frank and Stanley Chiang and sister-in-law of Sylvia and Margaret. Adoring aunt of Valerie and Adrian. For information on funeral arrangements call Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500. In lie
 GROPPER-Jane E. On February 11, 1999. Beloved wife of Allan. Loving mother of Andrew. Devoted daughter of Felix and Elinor Evangelist. A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, February 20. For further information, please call 212-819-8403. Family will receive at their home Sunday, Febr
 NIVEN-Catharine Headley. Formerly of Atherton and Woodside, died Saturday, February 6, 1999, at her home in Arroyo Grande, CA. Services were held on Tuesday February 9, 1999 at 2:30pm at Grace Church in San Luis Obispo, CA. Mrs. Niven was born February 15, 1919, in New Orleans, LA. She and 
 SANSON-Martha DeWitt of Bryn Mawr, Pa., formerly of West Hartford, Ct., died peacefully on February 10, 1999 at the age of 79. A graduate of Bryn Mawr College with a M.S. in Education from the University of Pennsylvania. She specialized in tutoring children with reading problems. As a membe
 BENJAMIN-Myrna. On February 12, 1999. Adored wife of Larry for 55 years. Loving mother of Arlene and Murray Rubinstein and Jeffrey and Arlene Benjamin. Proud grandmother of Steven and Robert Rubinstein and Drs. Michael and Susan Benjamin. Beloved sister of Sydelle Swerdlow. She will forever
 CLARKSON-Jane Grobben, 84, of NYC died January 29, 1999 in Arlington, VA. She was born October 3, 1914 in Milwaukee, the daughter of Margaret Pederson and Samuel Adolph Grobben. She studied music at Lawrence College in Appleton, WI and Columbia University in NYC and in 1941 married Harvey C
 FALK-Georgina (nee Strunz), at age 88, a vibrant and beautiful lady has suddenly left her husband, daughter, neighbors and friends. To remember her, we will be joining together on Saturday, February 20, 2PM, at All Souls Unitarian Church, Lexington Ave. at 80 Street. Please, no flowers. Ins
 GROPPER-Jane E. On February 11, 1999. Beloved wife of Allan. Loving mother of Andrew. Devoted daughter of Felix and Elinor Evangelist. A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, February 20. For further information, please call 212-819-8403. Family will receive at their home Sunday, Febr
 LEWY-Gladys Brooks, of Hallandale, FL, on February 11th, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Morris L. Lewy. She leaves a daughter, Marilyn L. Soffer, a son, Dr. John B. Lewy, and six grandchildren, Lori, Stephen and Kenneth Greene, Mark, David and James Lewy, nine great-grandchildren, and exten
 NEWMEYER-Dr. Edna. Died January 24, 1999 at age 83. Milton Scholar. Dedicated teacher. Her friends will miss her terribly. Memorial meeting on February 21, 1999 at the home of Hank Aberle and Kitty Savage. 885 West End Aveune, Apt GA at 3 PM. For more information call 212-749-1486.       
 PATTERSON-Eleanor Morgan Beloved wife of the late Alexander E. Patterson, a former President of Mutual of New York (MONY), died peacefully on February 12, 1999, at the Osborn Home, Rye, NY, at the age of 103. She is survived by her son Alexander E. Patterson, Jr., of Greenwich, CT, her daug
 PENNEBAKER-Sylvia Bell of New York City and Sag Harbor, L.I., died at home in Manhattan on February 5 after a lengthy illness. Beloved daughter of the late Samuel and Isabel Bell of Chestnut Hill, PA, and Coconut Grove, FL, she is survived by her 3 devoted children: Stacy, Frazer and Linley
 PINES-Jeanette (Weinstein). Died February 11. Loving wife of Leonard Pines, mother of Carol Gomez and Jo Schuman-Silver, mother-inlaw of Richard Gomez, and loving grandmother of Michelle Gomez. A remarkable, unique and beloved woman who will be missed by many. Memorial services February 15,
 RENNERT-Susan Sider. On February 11, 1999-she loved Melinda and Nina as much as life itself, and her sunny smile warmed the lives of all who knew her. Her loving husband, Morton. Donations in her memory can be made to American Cancer Society or The James McFaul Environmental Center and Rese
 SADOWSKY - Florence. Died peacefully on February 10. She was the loving wife of the late David Sadowsky and is survived by her son Jack, daughter-in-law Claudia, her niece Betty Newman and family, Mrs. Gloria Jacobs, other family members and her many friends. She was loved by all and will b
 SILVERMAN-Betty Sue Age 62, on February 9, 1999. Educational Assistant to Claire Shulman, Boro President of Queens. Beloved wife of Gene. Loving mother of Judi, Gail and Marsha. Nurturing grandmother of Hannah, Charlotte, Rachel and Rebecca. She was truly a Renaissance woman who touched man
 WOLF-Pearl Sarah (nee Morris) age 90, of West Orange, New Jersey. Born on October 14, 1908 in Plainfield, NJ, died peacefully on February 10, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jacob William Wolf. Adored mother of Adrianne Wolf Silver of New York City and Margaret Wolf Kohn of Ra'nanna, Israel 
 BACKER-Gail. (nee Challop), 51, of Purchase, NY. Passed away quietly on February 13, 1999, with her family and loved ones nearby. She was deeply loved and her memory will forever be cherished. Gail was the beloved wife and soulmate of Glenn, loving mother of Amanda and Paul, cherished grand
 BERGSTEIN-Dorothy. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Dotti, departed on February 12, 1999. A dynamic and courageous lady who will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughters, Jodi and Merri, her mother, Margie, and her entire family. Leah and Allan Rabinowitz       
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. On the 30th day (Shloshim) since the passing of an outstanding leader in the Jewish community. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation extends its heartfelt condolences to Harry and (Matta) Freund, our devoted benefactors, Matthew and (Blanche) Freund, and her many
 GRAHAM-Esther Stearns. Died on February 13, 1999. Survived by her daughter Pamela and her sister Ann.       
 KURTH-Gertrud M., Ph.D.. Died at home on February 13, 1999, in her 96th year, still possessed of her fine wit and warm intelligence. Psychologist and psychotherapist, she will be greatly missed by family, friends and former patients.       
 LITT-Ethel (nee Schonzeit). Age 95, formerly of NYC, of Hollywood, FL. Died February 12, 1999. Beloved mother of Donald Litt and Barbara Eidelsberg and mother-in-law of Doris Litt and recently deceased Robert Eidelsberg. Loving grandmother of Diane, Lori, Larry, Dan, Rick, Joe, Ann, Debbie,
 MEHEGAN-Doris. Died in Toronto after a short illness and a full and active life. Survived by her son Carey and daughter Gretchen, and three grandchildren. A memorial will be held in April in Tornoto.       
 SCHWARTZ-David. Harriet and Bill Farber extend their deepest sympathy to Sonny and her entire family. David's friendship and devotion to family and friends will long be remembered.       
 BAXT-Sylvia (nee Treister). On February 14, 1999, age 82. Beloved wife of the late Jack Baxt and the late Harry Weinberger. Devoted mother of Andrew Weinberger, mother-in-law of Sydelle and loving grandmother of Henry, her pride and joy. Services are private. In lieu of flowers donations to
 CHAMIS-Germaine Rachel (nee Nahoum). Passed away February 13, 1999 at the age of 91. Widow of Noah. Devoted mother of Lillian, Benjamin and Michael. Adoring grandmother of Nadine, Michelle, Rhett, Derek and Noah. Beloved great-grandmother of five. She will be deeply missed and very much rem
 FEIDELSON-Babs (Mrs. Michael). The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Babs Feidelson, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to th
 FRANZBLAU-Muriel. Survived by her loving family and cherished friends. Services Wednesday, 1:30, at the Church Center for the United Nations, Southwest corner of 44th Street and 1st Avenue.       
 GRAHAM-Eleanor K. Devoted wife of the late Murray Graham, died peacefully on February 13, 1999. Private interment was held. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Murray and Eleanor K. Graham Fund for the Aged at UJA-Federation of New York or the charity of your choice.       
 HOLIBER-Caryl Lois (Sokolower) Born Bronx, NY, October 21, 1928. Died Maryland, February 14, 1999. Devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Tireless Jewish educator and community builder. She is survived by husband Jerry, son Adam, daughter Judith, grandson, Joshua. Donations Jerome and Caryl 
 HUBBARD-Margaret (nee Ackerly). Of Bloomfield, CT, a resident of Duncaster, formerly of West Hartford died Saturday, February 13, 1999. Born in 1918 in New York City, she lived in the Hartford area for most of her life. She graduated from The Brearley School in New York City in 1937 and fro
 JABLONS-Anita of Allensdale, NJ. Died on Friday, February 12 at the age of eighty. Beloved mother and grandmother, she leaves behind Mitchell, Jane and Barbara, and two grandchildren. She was buried on Sunday at the Mount Hebron Cemetery next to her husband. She will be dearly missed.      
 KELMAN-Bertha. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Bertha Kelman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KURTH-Gertrud M., Ph.D. Died at home on February 13, 1999, in her 96th year, still possessed of her fine wit and warm intelligence. Psychologist and psychotherapist, she will be greatly missed by family, friends and former patients.       
 SCHWARTZ - Mollie. Passed peacefully on February 13, 1999 after 99 years of life, guided by Torah and Yiddishkeit. Beloved mother of Harold and Fred Schwartz. Also survived by her eight grandchildren, Stuart, Barbara, Andrew, Ira, Steven, Amy, Gary and Ann and eleven great-grandchildren.   
 De LISO-Agrippina of Sagaponack, New York. Died February 14 at age 83. Devoted wife of the late writer, Oscar De Liso; dear mother of Monica and mother-in-law of Herbert Hellman; beloved grandmother of Andrew; cherished sister of Dr. Helen Scire and Yolanda La Vecchia; adored aunt of many n
 DLUGOPIAT-William. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Barbara Gelman and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the families be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 GRAHAM-Eleanor K. Devoted wife of the late Murray Graham, died peacefully on February 13, 1999. Private interment was held. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Murray and Eleanor K. Graham Fund for the Aged at UJA-Federation of New York or the charity of your choice.       
 GRAY-Esther. The Worldwide Boys Town Jerusalem family mourns the passing of Mrs. Esther Gray, beloved mother of our esteemed Executive Vice President, Rabbi Ronald Gray. Throughout her lifetime, Mrs. Esther Gray derived much nachas from her two exemplary sons, whose commitment to Judaism, c
 HUBBARD-Margaret (nee Ackerly). Of Bloomfield, CT, a resident of Duncaster, formerly of West Hartford died Saturday, February 13, 1999. Born in 1918 in New York City, she was the loving daughter of the late Dana Tarbell Ackerly and Edna Clay Ackerly. she lived in the Hartford area for most 
 SUGG-Maud McKenna. Died on February 12th. She leaves her husband, Carroll, children Zoe and Uel; father Michael McKenna; sisters Deirdre and Amy. Informal gathering scheduled Febraury 21 in Williamstown, MA. at noon. For information call 413-458-9506.       
 Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Ma
 DRELLICH-Edith B. (nee Berger) of Laguna Hills, CA and formerly of Flushing, NY on February 12, 1999. Wife of the late Samuel B. Drellich and sister of the late William Berger. Born to David and Fannie Berger, she grew up in Los Angeles, CA and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University o
 MAZEN-Henrietta. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. On February 16, 1999, at age 90, died peacefully at home. Wife of the late Ben Mazen. Survived by her brother Bernard Stegman, her children Sam Mazen and Marjorie Smith and her grandchildren Ben and Jessica Smith. Service at Garlick's, 1439 Unionport Road
 PELLER-Toby. Devoted wife of Leo. Mother of David and Richard. Dear sister of Sam Klein, Anna Taylor and Lillian Klein. Most cherished grandmother, her kindness,tenderness, devotion, love and many talents will be sorely missed. Service Friday, 10AM at Riverside, 21 West Broad St, Mount Vern
 BISKIND-Sylvia. Passed away on February 16, 1999 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of the late Elliott Biskind. Loving mother of Peter, mother-in-law of Elizabeth and devoted grandmother of Kate. She will be remembered, always.       
 CHASANAS-Lilia. Beloved wife of the late George. After a long illness, died peacefully in her own bed in the company of friends. Contributions may be sent to the League for the Hard of Hearing, 71 West 23 Street, NY, NY 10010.       
 FAIRCLOUGH-Carol D. Of Coram, on February 16, in her 61st year. Loving mother of Scott and Diana. Beloved daughter of Ruth and the late Clarence Dahl. Dear sister of Glordge, Nanc, Todge, Sooge, Dianne, Buzz, Cindge and the late Jeannie. Fond sister-inlaw of Clay, Butch, Al, Bob and John. C
 LANIADO-Fannie. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas.       
 MAHONEY - Mary Watkins Reeves, age 86, of Old Field, Long Island on January 24th. Beloved wife of the late Jesse Waring Mahoney, M.D., she was the author of network serial dramas, a free lance magazine writer and author of ''Hurry Up Summer'', published in 1992 by Putnam. She is survived by
 McGOVERN-Margaret (nee Cronin) on February 18, 1999. She is survived by her husband, James Vincent & children, James Logan, Anne Christine O'Donoghue and Maureen Elizabeth and brother Joseph R. Peg was graduated Cum Laude from Concordia College and was a Masters Degree candidate at Fordham 
 PATTERSON-Sally Hackney, of Charlotte, NC and New York City, died Wednesday, February 17, 1999 at home in Charlotte. She was born March 7, 1935 in Charlotte, the daughter of the late Sara Hackney Patterson and George D. Patterson. Sally attended the Charlotte City schools, graduated from St
 PELLER-Toby. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Toby Peller and extend to her bereaved husband Leo and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary      
 TREITMAN-Grace (nee Kaufman). Beloved wife of the late Julius Scheidlinger and the late William Treitman. Devoted mother of Aaron and Elsa Scheidlinger and Stanley and Elaine Scheidlinger. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Lisa, Lori, Lisa, Elie, Marci, Jay and Jodi. Loving great grandmothe
 VANDORN-June, 83. Of New York City, NY, on February 15, 1999. Daughter of Arthur Lee Jr and Georgina Hawkins. Beloved wife of the late Robert VanDorn Jr. Devoted mother of son Robert VanDorn of Wappinger Falls, NY and daughter Roberta VanDorn of NYC. Also, survived by brother Gerald H. Lee 
 ANDERSON-R.. Lucile. Retired Professor of Mathematics at Hunter College. On February 18, 1999. Beloved aunt of Ellen Cleveland, William O'Bannon, Ann Summers, Jane Anderson, Dr. Charles Anderson, and the late Elizabeth Robbins; and 18 great-nieces and nephews. Service and interment private.
 GREIF-Mildred S.., 87 of Scarsdale, NY. Her memory is cherished by her daughter Marion of Great Neck and her fiance Alan Shapiro; and her son Jim of New York. Your love shone like a beacon. We miss you already. Services Sunday 12:30PM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. and 91 St.     
 NIEROW-Mary. The family of Mary Nierow profoundly mourn the passing of their beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be sorely missed. Funeral service Sunday, February 21, 9:30 at Garlick Kirschenbaum Funeral Home, Brooklyn, NY. NIEROW-Mary. The East Midwood Jewish Cente
 Dr. Jan Hawkins, a pioneer in the use of computers and other technology in education, died Feb. 9 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 47 and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Before joinin
 CARROLL-Dr. Jean Mary. Age 76. Died on February 18th, 1999. Beloved sister, aunt, neighbor, and friend. Proud alumna of the Lincoln School, Barnard College, NYU School of Medicine. Associated with the Medical Department of AT&T Longlines Division until her retirement. Memorial service to be
 EDER-Mary F.. (nee Begley). On February 20, 1999, in Dobbs Ferry, NY. Beloved wife of the late Frederick A. Loving mother of Frederic J. and Marianne Handibode. Survived by her grandchildren, Michelle, Brian, Kevin, Rachel and Daniel. Mrs. Eder, formerly of the Bronx, NY, dedicated 39 years
 FRANKS-Betty Wagner., 80, of Bryn Mawr, PA, on February 18, 1999. Born July 24, 1918 in Columbia, SC, moved to Ashville, NC and spent most of her childhood in Pelham Manor, NY. Graduated from Radcliffe College, Class of '38 and attended Southern Seminary in Buena Vista, VA. In 1936 she was 
 GORLIN-Sylvia (nee Levy). Age 83. Beloved mother of Alexander and Rena. Wife of the late Philip. Sister of Benjamin Levy. Graduate of Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, 1938, and NYU School of Education, 1945. An inspiration to all through her love, determination, energy
 GREIF-Mildred S.., 87 of Scarsdale, NY. Her memory is cherished by her daughter Marion of Great Neck and her fiance Alan Shapiro; and her son Jim of New York. Your love shone like a beacon. We miss you already. Services Sunday 12:30PM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. and 91 St.     
 HOFFMAN-Lillian. Age 84, on February 18, 1999. Survived by her daughters Adele Cohen and Carol Hoffman, and grandchildren Ronald, Gene and Deborah Cohen, and Jack Hoffman. Donations in her memory may be made to Hadassah.       
 KULICK-Joyce G.. 64, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Short Hills, NJ. Passed away Saturday, February 20, 1999. She is survived by her loving husband of 42 years, Leonard; her adoring sons Barry (Miriam) Kulick, Neil (Claire LaPorte) Kulick; her cherished grandchildren Alexander, Noah and Ada
 LANGFAN-Barbara. On Friday, February 19, 1999. Beloved daughter of the late Max and Mary Langfan. Cherished sister of William and the late Rubin, Janet and Hanna. Caring sister-in-law of Marion and Hilda. Devoted aunt of Lorraine and Alex, Robin and Jay, Mark and Sherri, Dayna and Larry, an
 LITTELL-Marcelle Hull. 95 years old, formerly of New York, NY, and a resident of Palm Beach, FL, died Friday, February 19, 1999, at her home. Mrs. Littell was a winter resident of the Palm Beach area since 1937 and a full time resident since 1960. She was a graduate of both the St. Agnes Sc
 OTTO-Lucille Hughett. Born in Bentley, IL on October 26, 1905. Died February 12, 1999 in Bethesda, MD. Sixty year resident of New York City. Two year resident of Chevy Chase, MD. Graduate of MacMurray College and Columbia University. Awarded Distinguished Alumna of MacMurray in 1997 at her 
 SCULLY-Jean Taylor Jackson., Esq, died unexpectedly on February 17, 1999 in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Colonel Leonard Tyson Scully, U.S. Army and Senior Officer of the United States Trust Company of New York. She was on the Board of Directors and a trustee of numerous charitie
 TOULIATOS - Artemis. Died peacefully on February 19, 1999, in her 98th year. Deeply loved by family and friends because of her wisdom, generosity and caring friendship. She was the devoted wife of the late Spiros and loving mother of Diana Vagelos and Thetis Reavis, and mother-in-law of Dr.
 ALBERT-Lauren (nee Rose). February 18, 1999, in a motor vehicle accident in Morocco. Beloved wife of Dr. Todd J. Albert. Beloved mother of Stuart, Elliot and Emily. Daughter of Stuart and Susan Rose. Sister of Jacqueline Calloway, Amy Rose and Elizabeth Tennenbaum. Sister-in-law of Daniel C
 BELDOCH - Hannah ''Honey''. Mother of Michael and the late Patricia. Mother-in-law of Ann, Carol and Gene. Grandmother of ten. Great-grandmother of 18. Greatgreat-grandmother of Samantha, as well as special aunt to many, but above all, the very best friend to all who came her way. Honey die
 CARROLL-Jean Mary, M.D. After a long debilitating illness. She will be remembered with fondness by many relatives, friends and grateful patients. She was a caring, humanistic physician in an era when those qualities are rare. Her many years of service as staff physician at AT&T Long Lines w
 COBURN-Martha (Means). Of Walpole, MA. Beloved wife of Ralph ''Pat'' Coburn. Died at age 86, on February 20. Also survived by her sons, Peter, Richard, Gordon and David; and by her granddaughters, Sarah and Teresa. A memorial service was held in Saint Matthew's Church, Bedford, NY,on Sunday
 DEUTSCH-Sylvia. Loving wife of the late Benjamin. Beloved mother of Lawrence and Marlene. Loving grandmother of Allison, Barry, Andrew and Elizabeth. Cherished mother-in-law of Toby and Michael. She will be sorely missed. Services Tuesday, 10:15, at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Expr
 SCHECTER-Charlotte Bloch. On February 21. Beloved wife of the late Robert, dearest twin sister of Harriet, devoted mother of Gail, Diane, and Deborah, and fond grandmother. Talented, kind, and generous, she will be missed by many whose lives she made brighter. Services at 11:30, Monday, Feb
 SCHWABE-Gretl (formerly Gretl Spanier). Died February 20, at the age of 85, at her home in New York City. Born in Krumbach, Germany, she immigrated to the United States in 1936. She married her late husband, Herman Schwabe in 1940. Beloved mother of Jerrold and the late Ronald, and cherishe
 SCULLY-Jean Taylor Jackson., Esq, died unexpectedly on February 17, 1999 in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Colonel Leonard Tyson Scully, U.S. Army and Senior Officer of the United States Trust Company of New York. She was on the Board of Directors and a trustee of numerous charitie
 TOULIATOS - Artemis. Died peacefully on February 19, 1999, in her 98th year. Deeply loved by family and friends because of her wisdom, generosity and caring friendship. She was the devoted wife of the late Spiros and loving mother of Diana Vagelos and Thetis Reavis, and mother-in-law of Dr.
 Gertrude B. Elion, a pioneer in drug research who shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1988, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where she lived. She was 81. Ms. Elion developed drugs for use in a vast array of conditions. They included drugs for herpes, leukemia, mala
 AVRACH-Joyce, age 73, died peacefully on February 20, 1999. Beloved widow of David, she is survived by her brother, Buddy Sertner, three children Linda, Robert and Donna and her five grandchildren, Pamela, Andrea, Matthew, David and Jamie. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Donati
 BAUMGART-Seraphina Stella. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Loving mother of Beth Gralnick and Richard Baumgart. Grandmother of Bob, Kate and Sarah. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, 10:00 AM at Larchmont Temple, Larchmont, NY. Interment is private. Memorial 
 BAYER-Berta A. 83. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman S. Loving and devoted mother of Les of East Meadow and Arlyne of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of Eric and Lauren Bayer and Holly Baumgold. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to a charity of your choice. Serv
 BELDOCH-Hannah R. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of ''Honey'' Beldoch, beloved mother-in-law to Gene Hochfelder, grandmother to James Hochfelder, and greatgrandmother to Adam Hochfelder, extraordinary supporters and cherished fri
 DESMOND-Trudy. Peacefully at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, February 19, singer Trudy Desmond, loving sister of Ellen and Jeffrey, beloved daughter of Ethel and the late Raphael Salwen. She will be dearly missed by all those who experienced the joy of knowing her personally and profes
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life a
 FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace
 GORDON-Miriam (nee Brodlieb). On February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Gordon, loving mother of Ellen Milberg and Ronald Gordon. Mother-in-law of Leonard Milberg and Claire Gordon. Proud and loving grandmother of Brian Gordon, Elizabeth Gordon, David & Melinda Milberg, Daniel a
 KESSLER-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Devoted mother of Lisa, Jonathan, Diana, and Susie. Adored grandmother of Samantha, David, Daniel, Alexis and Jordan. She delighted in her family's simchas. Services Tuesday 2PM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. 
 KULICK-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Saturday, February 20, 1999. She will be missed. Services were held February 22, 1999 at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Pompano Beach, FL. Melvin Michaelson, Preside
 MAUALA-Robin E. G. Passed away on February 21. Beloved wife of Nusi and cherished mother of Mele. Her vivacious character, endless enthusiasm, and generous nature will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service will be held at the U.N. Chapel, February 26th beginning 
 Bessie Cohen, who as a 19-year-old seamstress escaped the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in which 146 of her co-workers perished in 1911, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. She was 107 and was one of the last two known survivors of the Manhattan fire, according to the Union of Needletrades, Industria
 BELDOCH-Honey. We will miss our grandmother and greatgrandmother for a long time to come. Chris, Jackie, Kyle and Danielle Beldoch; Eric, Tracy, Nicky and Rachel Beldoch; David and Amanda Beldoch Hoover and Katherine and Emily; Ariana Farr Beldoch and Albert Isaac (Zac) Beldoch. She took ea
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Board of Trustees, President David Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello, the Faculty, Alumni, Staff and Students of Polytechnic University note with profound regret the passing of Gertrude Elion, 1989 Honorary Doctorate recipient from Polytechnic, former Polytechnic do
 FRIEDLAND - Evelyn. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the mother of its esteemed Trustee, Mr. Lawrence Friedland, and expresses heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. Willia
 GOLDBERG-Evelyn on February 22, 1999 of Riverdale, N.Y. Beloved mother, grandmother and sister. Survived by her two children Jodie and Jay. Services Thursday, 10:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HALSEY-Helen Pendergast. Died on February 22 at her home in Little Silver, NJ. She is survived by her three children Euphemia Van R. Hillier of Penang, Malaysia; Charles D. Halsey, Jr. of Glenville, NC; Alexander Van R. Halsey of Locust, NJ; ten grandchildren and nineteen great grandchildre
 KLION-Beverly. Best friend and devoted wife of Herbert; loving mother of Jane, Nancy and Howard. Beloved mother-in-law of Amy, Mitchell and Richard. Adored grandmother of Benjamin, Hannah, Allison, Jessica, Noah, Myles and Madeline. Services Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave., White P
 MAYER-Grace M. On February 22, 1999. A memorial funeral mass will be held at the Church of the Transfiguration, 1 E. 29 St on Monday March 1st at 1PM. Her many friends will miss her dearly.       
 TINKER-Mary Ann. The Medical Board of Queens Hospital Center announces with sorrow the passing of our colleague, Dr. Mary Ann Tinker. She served her hospital and community with dignity, skill and compassion. A memorial service for this medical educator and leader will be held at the QHC Aud
 ARNOLD-Matilda. Passed away on February 22nd, 1999, Napa, California, at age 95. Native Pennsylvania and former resident of New York City, for many years. Beloved wife of the late Arnold H. Arnold, and mother of Steven Arnold, of Tiburon, California. She loved life and so enjoyed everyone a
 AULT-Joan Morse. Noted interior designer. Died on February 22. No relatives survive. She will live on in the memories of those enriched by her delightful presence, staunch friendship, love of life, infectious laugh, artistic talents. A memorial service will be announced. Remembrances may be
 KLIEGMAN-Sylvia in Fairfield, CT on February 24, 1999. Predeceased by beloved husband, Edward, devoted mother of David, Leona and Jay, loving grandma ''Sity'' to eight. Ardent supporter of Hillcrest Hadassah. She will be deeply missed. Services Friday 11:30 am at Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn
 KLION-Beverly. Best friend and devoted wife of Herbert; loving mother of Jane, Nancy and Howard. Beloved mother-in-law of Amy, Mitchell and Richard. Adored grandmother of Benjamin, Hannah, Allison, Jessica, Noah, Myles and Madeline. Services Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave., White P
 LONG-Ruth Stoddard, M.D. on February 23, 1999. Dr. Long was an internationally renowned retina specialist and one of the first women resident surgeons in the United States. She was the first ophthalmic surgeon in America to conservatively treat ocular malignant melanoma with cobalt-60 plaqu
 MINTZER-Rebecca Fox. On Feburary 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Hyman Albert, and mother of Joseph and Frances. Grandmother of Leslie, Laurence, Elyse, Ronald and Warren. Mother-inlaw of Serena and Arthur. Greatgrandmother of Zoe, Allison, David, Melanie and Kyle. Cherished by Brian, La
 PERKIN-Carol. Daughter of George and Ann Perkin of West Orange, NJ, died Tuesday morning. Her loved ones will miss her extraordinary grace, her courage, and her laughter. Ms. Perkin, 44, was a reporter for the Associated Press and a valued writer at ABC's ''Good Morning America''. A Memoria
 RESNICK-Sylvia. Formerly of Belle Harbor. We mourn the passing of our mother, sister, grandmother, great grandmother, aunt and cousin, on February 11 at her home in North Miami Beach. A memorial service will be held on February 27. For information, call (914) 268-4703. Donations may be made
 ROSNER-Ilene. Taken from this earth before her time. Our deepest condolences to her husband Andrew, children Mayer and Chaya. She was loved by all. Blecher family       
 ROSS-Marion nee Wender. On February 24th, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Bert Ross. Dear mother of Jacqueline Ross Levine and her loving son-in-law, Arnold Levine. Adored grandmother of Betsy and Caryn. Services Friday, February 26th, 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amster
 SOLOMON-Mildred Taub, age 82 of Palm Beach, Florida. Formerly of Scarsdale and New York City. She is survived by her husband of 61 years Richard. Two loving sons Alan (Sandra) and Steve (Laura). Grandchildren David (Mary), Andrew (Christine), Amy Charney (Jonathan), Jeffrey, Kenneth and Emi
 Sarah Kane, a provocative playwright whose bleak view of the limitations of human relationships and graphic dramatizations of violence and sex earned her a reputation as an enfant terrible of the British theater, died on Saturday at King's College Hospital here. She was 28. She was 
 ANDREWS - Maryann Reeve Larkin. Longtime resident of Tudor City, teacher and Broadway and TV actress died of pneumonia on February 21 at the age of 75. She will be greatly missed by her friends, family and former students. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her name to the performi
 COLE-Miriam Gordon. Of Southport, CT., and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully on Feburary 24th, in Palm Beach. Much loved wife of Martin C. Cole. She is also survived by her children, Richard S. Gordon, (Jacobi) of Maui, Jane Oristano (Victor) of Fairfield, CT., and Hobe Sound, FL., her cheris
 FIERMAN - ROSS - Hortense. Passed away at home February 24 at the young age of 94. Loving wife of late Sidney Fierman and Daniel Ross. She is survived by son Merwyn, daughter Marilyn, grandchildren Scott, Sabrina, Daniel, Randy, Sean and Shane. A unique, intelligent woman, full of spirit, h
 LONG - Ruth Stoddard. The Ophthalmic Laser Surgical Society regrets the passing of one of its founding members, Ruth Stoddard Long, M.D., a leading pioneer in the field of retinal laser surgery. She will be greatly missed. Robert Ritch, M.D. President Sid Mandelbaum, M.D. Vice Pres Jeffrey 
 MIHALTSE-Anne. Age 77. Died February 25 in Port St. Lucie, FL. Devoted to her family. Survived by husband, Leon, two children William and Donna Saytanides, daughter-in-law Diana, sister Helen Befanis and three grandchildren. Visiting Saturday and Sunday 3-5 and 7-9PM at Fairchild & Son, Man
 SCHONBERGER-Eva M. On February 25, 1999. Beloved friend of Christopher Bromsey and Samuel Earle. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday 8:309:45 AM with Service at 9:45 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to Bide-A-Wee.       
 Virginia Foster Durr, a well-born civil rights campaigner who was on hand when Rosa Parks was bailed out of jail where she was being held for not giving up her seat on a bus to a white man in 1955, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Carlisle, Pa. She was 95. Mrs. Durr and her hu
 Molly Harrower, a clinical psychologist who devised a Rorschach test for use in group therapy, died Feb. 20 at her home in Gainesville, Fla. She was 93. Dr. Harrower developed her own set of inkblot cards to administer to groups of Canadian military recruits in World War II. Known a
 AVRACH-Joyce, age 73, died peacefully on February 20, 1999. Beloved widow of David, she is survived by her brother, Buddy Sertner, three children Linda, Robert and Donna and her five grandchildren, Pamela, Andrea, Matthew, David and Jamie. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Donati
 BARNES-Sylvia nee Rudnick February 5, 1999, aged 81. Services private, at graveside on February 7 in Mount Lebanon Cemetery. Retired in 1980 from Montgomery Wards' in New York, dress buyer for their 500 stores and catalogue. Prominent in the industry as a leader, fostered also by her volunt
 BAUMGART-Seraphina Stella. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Loving mother of Beth Gralnick and Richard Baumgart. Grandmother of Bob, Kate and Sarah. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, 10:00 AM at Larchmont Temple, Larchmont, NY. Interment is private. Memorial 
 BAUR-Louise Chase. The Board of Trustees and Staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Louise Chase Baur, the wife of the late John I.H. Baur, who was director of The Whitney Museum. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her ch
 BAYER-Berta A. 83. On February 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Herman S. Loving and devoted mother of Les of East Meadow and Arlyne of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of Eric and Lauren Bayer and Holly Baumgold. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to a charity of your choice. Serv
 BELDOCH-Hannah. She was ''Grandma Honey'' to the five Hochfelder boys and their wives: Jim and Ellen, Tom and Lynda, John and Janet, Andrew and Patricia, Peter and Stacy; and ''Great-Grandma Honey'' to Amy and Scott, Adam and Amy, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harr
 BELDOCH-Honey. Died peacefully in her ninety-sixth year. My best friend and mother-in-law for fiftysix years. The matriarch of the Hochfelder family. We will all miss this elegant, wise, strong, courageous, gracious lady. She will be especially missed by her loving and respectful son-in-law
 BUNCE-Eleanor H., 93. February 22, 1999, at Bloomfield, CT. Widow of John Lee Bunce. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Mount Holyoke College, Mrs. Bunce had a virtually lifelong association with the museum and art worlds. As Miss Eleanor Howland, in 1933, she became assistant to A. Everett Austi
 CARON-Blanche (nee Hans). Age 79, passed away February 23, 1999, in Sunrise, Florida, after a life of ''not so quiet desperation.'' Those relatives and friends whose lives she touched however briefly will remember her fondly. We do, her brother Murray and sisters-in-law Dotty and Harriet.  
 COHEN-Ruth (Ronnie). On February 26, 1999. Beloved wife of 51 years of Max; cherished mother of Gail and Lauri; adored grandmother of Emily, Matt, Michael and Jason; dear sister of Dorothy and mother-in-law of Jeff and Perry. You will be forever in our hearts. Donations in her memory may be
 COLE-Miriam Gordon. Of Southport, CT., and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully on February 24th, in Palm Beach. Much loved wife of Martin C. Cole. She is also survived by her children, Richard S. Gordon, (Jacobi) of Maui, Jane Oristano (Victor) of Fairfield, CT., and Hobe Sound, FL., her cheris
 DESMOND-Trudy. Peacefully at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, February 19, singer Trudy Desmond, loving sister of Ellen and Jeffrey, beloved daughter of Ethel and the late Raphael Salwen. She will be dearly missed by all those who experienced the joy of knowing her personally and profes
 ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life a
 FEINSTEIN-May. 91. Beloved mother of Richard G. Levine, Susan Dworkin and the late Ruth Reuben and mother-in-law of Barbara Levine, Moshe Dworkin and Norbert Reuben, and wife of the late Benjamin Alva Levine and the late Al Feinstein. Devoted sister to the late Ida Levine. Grandmother of Je
 FEIRING-Ruth M. 87, Sarasota, died February 20, 1999. She was born September 7, 1911 in New York City and went to Sarasota 27 years ago. She taught history and economics at Richmond Hill and Martin Van Buren High Schools and was a college adviser to graduates. She received a bachelorsdegree
 FIERMAN - ROSS - Hortense. Passed away at home February 24 at the young age of 94. Loving wife of late Sidney Fierman and Daniel Ross. She is survived by son Merwyn, daughter Marilyn, grandchildren Scott, Sabrina, Daniel, Randy, Sean and Shane. A unique, intelligent woman, full of spirit, h
 FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace
 GOLDBERG-Sally Ann Pryor. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother passed away on Friday, February 26, at 6:05AM at the young age of 63 from complications brought on my lung cancer. A model, actress and consummate hostess, she was loved by all. Sally Ann died at home in the arms of her husband 
 GORDON-Miriam (nee Brodlieb). On February 22, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Gordon, loving mother of Ellen Milberg and Ronald Gordon. Mother-in-law of Leonard Milberg and Claire Gordon. Proud and loving grandmother of Brian Gordon, Elizabeth Gordon, David & Melinda Milberg, Daniel a
 HORTON-Odette Eldridge. Odette Eldridge Horton passed away on February 22, 1999. Ms. Horton was a longtime resident of Stuyvesant Town and graduated from the High School of Performing Arts and from New York University. She remained active in the alumni affairs of both institutions, as well 
 KESSLER-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Devoted mother of Lisa, Jonathan, Diana, and Susie. Adored grandmother of Samantha, David, Daniel, Alexis and Jordan. She delighted in her family's simchas. Services Tuesday 2PM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, New York. 
 KULICK-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Saturday, February 20, 1999. She will be missed. Services were held February 22, 1999 at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Pompano Beach, FL. Melvin Michaelson, Preside
 LIEBERMAN-Minnie. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished benefactor and beloved sister of our dedicated patron, Leon Miller. A woman who cared deeply for the disadvantaged children of Israel, Minnie Lieberman established the AMIT Mishpachton Residential Facility in Jerusale
 LONG-Ruth Stoddard, M.D. The Medical Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved and distinguished member of our staff. Dr. Long, pioneer female ophthalmic surgeon, joined the staff in 1970 and developed and lead the retinal service. She trained three generations of oph
 MAUALA-Robin E. G. Passed away on February 21. Beloved wife of Nusi and cherished mother of Mele. Her vivacious character, endless enthusiasm, and generous nature will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service will be held at the U.N. Chapel, February 26th beginning 
 PLIMPTON-Arline Brunner. On February 24th, 1999. She was predeceased by her husband Fritz and is survived by her mother Freda Brunner. Loving mother of Fred and Peter and mother-in-law of Barbara Wilson Plimpton. Memorials may be made to the Southern Maine Agency on Aging, PO Box 10480, Por
 PORTER-Mary del Villar. Of Thornwood, NY died on February 23rd, 1999 at the age of 82. Mary, beloved and admired by those who knew her, possessed a courageous spirit and an inner strength that inspired everyone whose life she touched. A graduate of Smith College, she spent the war years as 
 TROSTEN-Anne Belkin. Died February 27th, 1999 in Chatham, NY, was born in Torrington, CT in 1901. She graduated in 1922 from the Brooklyn Jewish Hospital School of Nursing. Mrs. Trosten is the widow of the late David Trosten of Brooklyn, NY. She is survived by her sons, William Trosten of M
 WALLACH-Madeleine Spiro. On February 26th, 1999, at age 97 in Baltimore, MD. Beloved wife of the late David, loving mother of Barbara Juster and Edward Wallach, mother-in-law of Joanne Wallach and Julian Juster, grandmother of Nancy and Marshall Schiff, Valerie and Edward Berman, Paul and W
 Shirley Stoler, an actress best known for her role as the Nazi commandant in Lina Wertmuller's 1976 film ''Seven Beauties,'' died on Feb. 17 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure after a long illness,
