 Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan. She was 79. Th
 Ida Russ Schwartz, one of three sisters who with their father, Joel Russ, sliced smoked salmon, pickled herrings and weighed out caviar at Russ & Daughters, their renowned appetizer store on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 24 in Pembroke Pines, Fla. She was 86. With h
 Pauline Kael, who expressed her passion for movies in jaunty, jazzy prose as the longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died yesterday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 82. Ms. Kael was probably the most influential film critic of her time. She reviewed movies for The
 Doris Howes Calloway, a nutritionist whose studies helped set standards for the dietary needs of people, died Aug. 31 at a nursing home in Seattle. She was 78. Dr. Calloway had Parkinson's disease, said the University of California at Berkeley, where she was a professor and a provos
 Prof. Millie Almy, a psychologist and author who was among the first to advocate special training for teachers in early childhood education, died on Aug. 15 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 86. Dr. Almy's early research convinced her that play was essential to healthy develop
 Alice Stewart Trillin -- an educator, film producer and author also known as the muse of her husband, the humorist Calvin Trillin -- died on Tuesday evening at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 63. The cause of death was heart failure resulting from radiation damage to her hea
 Barbara K. Olson, who was killed on Tuesday on the commercial jetliner that was hijacked and flown into the Pentagon, was well known to television viewers across the nation as a combative and confident political commentator representing the conservative Republican point of view. Mrs
 Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman fo
 Lisa J. Raines, one of the earliest and most prominent lobbyists for the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday in the crash of the hijacked airplane that hit the Pentagon. She was 42 and lived in Great Falls, Va. Ms. Raines was senior vice president for government relations at the
 Dorothy McGuire, who came to Hollywood from Broadway to repeat her 1941 stage success in the title role in ''Claudia,'' and went on to have a long and distinguished film career playing sensitive, intelligent and steadfast women, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 83. Mis
 Mara Sebrionsky Dvonch, a violinist, died on Aug. 30 at her home in Bainbridge Island, Wash. She was 87. Ms. Dvonch began her career in 1939 as a winner of a Walter W. Naumberg Musical Foundation Award, which carried the promise of a New York debut. That October, in her first appear
 Barbara Matera, a costumer who for five decades dressed the casts of the New York City Ballet, the Metropolitan Opera, movies and more than 100 Broadway shows, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center in New York. She was 72 and had homes in Manhattan and Athens, N.Y.     
 Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London. She was 89. Ms. Dudley had lived in London si
 Catherine G. Fabricant, an early proponent of the theory that herpes infections can lay the groundwork for a common form of heart disease, died Sept. 13 at a nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 81. The cause of death was kidney failure, her family said. The theory that some
 Lynn Payer, a science writer and medical journalist best known for her books about the impact of culture on medical care, died Saturday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, Cheryl Payer, her only immediate 
 Sallie M. Wheeler, an Anheuser-Busch heiress who led a successful campaign to return the nation's oldest and most prestigious horse show to Manhattan, died on Friday at her home in Keswick, Va. She was 70. Mrs. Wheeler, a lifelong equestrian, led efforts to return the National Horse
 Germaine Brée, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said. Ms. Brée was 93 and had b
 Germaine Brée, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said. Ms. Brée was 93 and had b
