 EMMET-Jane E. Died on June 28, 1997, in West Stockbridge, MA., after a brief illness. She was born on May 16, 1908 and is survived by a brother, Winthrop Emmet, and nieces and nephews and their children. Memorial arrangements will be announced at a later date.       
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth Braun, on June 30, 1997. Elegant, gracious, and loving woman; learned, wise and clear thinker; ardent and generous friend of Israel, Hadassah, and of countless charitable causes; patron of the arts; giver of comfort and support to all who knew her. Devoted wife of the late Dr.
 GUIREY - Sylvia Obolensky. Daughter of Alice Astor Bouverie and granddaughter of John Jacob Astor, died in London on Friday, 27 June, 1997 after a long illness. Survived by her brother, Ivan Obolensky, and two sisters, Romana McEwen and Emily Harding; and three children, Kadir Guirey, Sagat
 HOPE-Hope Douglas. Beloved wife of the late Norman L. Hope after a brief illness. Graduated from St. Mary's Academy, Peekskill, N.Y. Longtime volunteer at Roosevelt Hospital; member for 72 years at St. Bartholomew's Church. She loved her name, Hope Hope. Funeral services Wednesday, July 2, 
 KELLOGG-Mercy. The MacDougal-Sullivan Garden Association records with sorrow the death of Mercy Kellogg, a lifelong garden resident. We will miss her and extend deep sympathy to her family and friends.       
 LEWIS-Harry. The partners, associates and staff of Peter H. & Hubert J. Brandt note with sorrow the passing of Harry Lewis, father of Willa I. Lewis, our partner and friend. Our deepest condolences to Willa, her mother and her family.       
 MOSES-Barbara. On Saturday, June 28, 1997. Formerly of Hillsdale, New Jersey, after a long illness. Dear wife of the late Seymour Moses. Devoted mother of Deborah Visser and Paul Moses. Loving mother-in-law to Barbara Moses and William Visser. Proud grandmother of Joanna, Timothy and Evan. 
 RUBIN-Ray. On June 30, 1997. Worshiped and adored mother of Wendy Gaynor and Richard Rubin. Extraordinary grandmother to Ruby, Violet, Joshua, Sarah and Molly. Beloved and devoted friend & interior designer to generations. Inspiration to us all. Services will be held today, 11:15 A.M., at t
 BARNETT-Evelyn Safran, 87, died on the 29th of June, 1997 in Bethesda, Maryland. A long time resident of New York City, she was a graduate of Barnard College, class of 1930. Devoted wife of Isaac ''Frecks'' Margolis Barnett, cherished mother of Barbara Wing and Patricia Karlsen, adored gran
 BEEKLEY-Eliza Atlee Quarrier, on May 19, 1997. Friends may obtain a copy of her obituary and pictures by writing to her husband W. Mason Beekley, 499 Town Hill Road, New Hartford, CT. 06057.       
 EMMET-Jane E. Died on June 28, 1997, in West Stockbridge, MA., after a brief illness. She was born on May 16, 1908 and is survived by a brother, Winthrop Emmet, and nieces and nephews and their children. Memorial arrangements will be announced at a later date.       
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth Braun, on June 30, 1997. Elegant, gracious, and loving woman; learned, wise and clear thinker; ardent and generous friend of Israel, Hadassah, and of countless charitable causes; patron of the arts; giver of comfort and support to all who knew her. Devoted wife of the late Dr.
 GINTELL-Anne Leerburger, 92, of New York City on July 1, 1997. Wonderful mother of John W. Gintell of Cambridge, MA, beloved widow of Syl W. Gintell. Contributions may be made in her memory to the American Heart Association. At her request, her ashes will be scattered at sea by the Neptune 
 HOPE-Hope Douglas. Beloved wife of the late Norman L. Hope after a brief illness. Graduated from St. Mary's Academy, Peekskill, N.Y. Longtime volunteer at Roosevelt Hospital; member for 72 years at St. Bartholomew's Church. She loved her name, Hope Hope. Funeral services Wednesday, July 2, 
 JENKINS - Aileen McClements. She was an accounting librarian for many years in NYC for Arthur Young and Morgan Stanley. She is the daughter of the late S. H. ''Mac'' and Margaret McClements; widow of Coban Jenkins; sister-inlaw of Evan and Diane Jenkins; aunt of Jack, Peter, Anne, & David J
 KLEWAN-Mary, on July 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William (Bill) Klewan. Dear and devoted mother of Sandee. Adored aunt and great aunt. Mary was a warm and wonderful human being devoted to her family with a joy for life. Services today, July 2nd, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St
 LANDAU-Erna. Elegant, gracious, learned, wise & clear thinker. Mother of Hannah Low and David Landau. Grandmother to Claire, Joseph, Shelley, Debbie, Eric, Suzy and Karen. Great-grandmother to Jamie, Arie, Adam, Danielle, David, Daniel, Andrew, Tanya, Emily, Samantha, Matthew, Max and Julia
 LEWIS-Harry. The partners, associates and staff of Peter H. & Hubert J. Brandt note with sorrow the passing of Harry Lewis, father of Willa I. Lewis, our partner and friend. Our deepest condolences to Willa, her mother and her family.       
 ROTHMAN-Rose. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Friedman, President       
 RUBIN-Ruth. On June 30, 1997, beloved mother of Nat and daughterin-law Pearl, loving sister of Pearl Rubin. She was loved and will be missed. Services Wednesday, 11:15 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 Evelyn Fortune Bartlett, an art patron who was a major benefactor of the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Tuesday at her home in Beverly, Mass. She was 109. Alert until a few weeks ago, Mrs. Bartlett was also an ardent gardener and farmer, something of an eccentric and a master of 
 ANSIS-Loretta, of Plantation, Florida, on July 2, 1997. Loving wife, mother of Frederic, grandmother of Joseph and Matthew and sister of Samuel Rosenberg. A vibrant woman who offered all of her love to her son, grandchildren, family and friends. Services will be held at Old Montefiore Cemet
 ASHERMAN-Belle. On July 1, 1997. Born August, 1900. Daughter of the late Charles and Fannie Asherman. Survived by her brother, Irving Sherman, now residing in Los Angeles, California. Also survived by her nephew & grandnephews and nieces. Graveside services on Friday, 11 A.M., at Sharon Gar
 BARISH-Iris. The Congregation of the Malverne Jewish Center mourns the passing of our dear member Iris Barish. Sincerest condolences to her husband Phil, her children, and grandchildren. Barry J. Chesler, Rabbi Murray Greenspan, President       
 BAUMAN-Edna. City Center of Music & Drama Inc. mourns the death of Edna Bauman, City Center's first employee, whose dedication, warmth and intelligence will always be remembered. She retired in 1976 as Executive Secretary of the organization. Martin J. Oppenheimer, Chairman Board of Governo
 BECKER-Martha. Loving wife of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Paula Riegel, Dr. Jacob Becker, Dr. Elliot Becker. Devoted grandmother of Bram, Lisa, Elise, Bruce, Debra, Mark, Arielle, Steven and Adam. Adoring great grandmother of Chavi and Aishes Chayel, who brought blessings to her home
 BLUM-Eleanore. The Day Care Council of New York, Inc. is saddened to acknowledge the death of Eleanore Grace Laura Blum, who served as secretary to the Council until her retirement in 1987. Even then, she continued to volunteer in fundraising for the Council. Mrs. Blum was an honorary Counc
 CONZEN-Shirley O'Neill, 62, died of cancer July 1, 1997 in Lynchburg, Virginia. A graduate of the University of Vermont and Columbia Law School. She had a distinguished career in law as an attorney specializing in estates and trusts. First with the firm of Sullivan and Cromwell in New York 
 GORDON-Jo Ellen. On July 1, 1997, age 48, after a prolonged illness. Loving sister of Andrea Cooper, Michele Gordon and Steven Gordon. Dear sister-in-law of Barry Cooper, cherished aunt of Elizabeth, David, Adam and Brett. Extraordinary friend. Service Thursday, 11:15 am at ''The Riverside,
 MATHIS-Anna Carolyn. Before her time, on June 28, 1997. A woman of special character, courage and humor even in the face of terrible odds. We will be thinking of her and missing her always. Mary and Dorothy       
 RABSTEJNEK-Rose. Our deepest sympathy to our dear friend and member Nancy R. Nichols and her entire family on the loss of their beloved mother, Rose. Robert B. Obernier, Pres. Juvenile Diabetes Foundation New York Chapter       
 ROCHMAN-Rose. Beloved wife of the late Morris, devoted mother of Morton and Barbara, Michael and Judy, Toby and Michael Gorelick, adored grandmother of Diane and Rich, David, Larry and Leslie, Joseph, Hillel, Arion, great-grandmother of Paul, Zoe, Max, and Laura. Services on Thursday, 11:30
 SCHNAPP-Elizabeth (Pollak), of Boston since 1986, on July 2, 1997, age 96 years, at the Goddard House. Wife of the late Jerome A. Schnapp, and formerly of New York, she was born in Budapest, Hungary and came to the US as a six-month-old infant. Survived by her son John of Boston, grandsons 
 WESTPHAL-Dona Jean. On June 30, 1997. Loving and cherished sister. Formerly of North Platte, Nebraska and Long Beach, California. Dona was pre-deceased by her former husband, Jerome Wachtel. Burial will be private in California.       
 Annie Fratellini, who wiggled, waddled and waltzed through big tops in Europe before she opened a college for aspiring circus performers who wanted to follow in her outsized, floppy footsteps, died on Tuesday in Paris. She was 64. The cause was cancer. The National Circus School, wh
 HAFT-Doris N. On July 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harold Haft. She died as she lived with dignity, fortitude and grace. A cum laude graduate of Cornell University, she also earned an MBA from Columbia University. She lived her adult life in Manhattan and was an Account Executive for m
 KAMIEL-Claire. On July 2, 1997. 88 years old. Beloved wife of the late Max L. Kamiel. Cherished mother to Rosalind and Bob Rosenblum, Silvia and the late Jerome Rolnick, Harriet & Oscar Levine, & Lillian and Robert Fabrikant. Dear sister to Irving and Ruth Laub. Adoring grandmother to 9 gra
 LUNZER - Shoshana B. (nee Skidelsky), July 2, 1997. Beloved wife of Julius Peter. Loving mother of Benjamin, Jay, Francesca & David. Cherished grandmother, dear sister. Services were held. Shiva through Wednesday morning, July 9, 1997 at home. LUNZER-Shoshana. The Jewish Center mour
 PALL-Rae. In her 102nd year. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Devoted mother of Arthur, Arnold & David. Cherished grandmother. Dear sister of Fannie Gittleman. Services at ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels'', 312 Coney Island Ave (at Prospect Park)Bklyn, Sun 12 noon.       
 WALLACH-Cynthia H. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Charles, Elizabeth and Robert Marcotte, Roger and Mary. Dear sister of Michael Hollins. Cherished grandmother of Nathan Marcotte. Service today, 9:45 AM at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York.       
 HAFT-Doris N. On July 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harold Haft. She died as she lived with dignity, fortitude and grace. A cum laude graduate of Cornell University, she also earned an MBA from Columbia University. She lived her adult life in Manhattan and was an Account Executive for m
 KAMIEL-Claire. Memories of her joy of life are everlasting. Our condolences to all her loved ones. Alice and Mort       
 Frances Keene, a writer, translator and educator who specialized in the Romance languages, died on June 26 at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. She was 83 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son Adriano Valentino. Ms. Keene's translat
 ALEXANDER-Leah. Mrs. Leah Alexander of Stuyvesant Town died July 1. Mrs. Alexander was an employee of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and retired in 1974. She was devoted to and loved by family and friends. Mrs. Alexander is survived by her sister, Harriet Rosenzweig of Tamarac FL.,
 BEEKLEY-Eliza Atlee Quarrier, on May 19, 1997. Friends may obtain a copy of her obituary and pictures by writing to her husband W. Mason Beekley, 499 Town Hill Road, New Hartford, CT. 06057.       
 CORN-Anna. Died June 30, 1997 in her 99th year. Devoted wife of the late Irving Corn, loving mother of Ruth and Milton Fradkin, adored grandmother of Elyse and Leslie.       
 HAFT-Doris N. On July 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harold Haft. She died as she lived with dignity, fortitude and grace. A cum laude graduate of Cornell University, she also earned an MBA from Columbia University. She lived her adult life in Manhattan and was an Account Executive for m
 KAO-Rita Christine Rothlin, East Woods Road, Pound Ridge, New York, died at home, amongst family, on July 2, 1997, after a valiant struggle against ovarian cancer. Born Feb. 3, 1930, Kerns, Switzerland. She was an active member of St. Aloysius Parish, and was chiefly responsible for the flo
 MINTZ-Elizabeth, Ph.D. Died after after a long illness on June 23rd, at the age of 83. A psychotherapist in private practice in New York City, she was a leader in the human potential movement. She authored numerous articles in professional publications and two books. She was the widow of Al
 MOORE-Shirley I. Beloved aunt of Leto Copeley of Durham, NC, and Kevan P. Moore of Orlando, FL. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Sunday 5-8 PM. Funeral service 10 A.M., Monday, July 7, 1997, at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, Madison Ave. at 73 St. In li
 SCHWARTZ-Laura Joy, on July 2, 1997. Beloved wife of Seymour Schwartz. Devoted daughter of Pauline Retzky. Loving mother of Lynne and Michael Koufakis, Helene and Paul DeCillis and Richard. Cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Jared and Jake. Dear sister of Alan Retzky and Barbara Peppas. She w
 SHEPARD-Sylvia Wilson. On July 3, at 90. Beloved wife of the late Lee, devoted mother of James and Grace, dear sister of Julian Wilson, loving grandmother of James Jr., Andrew and Cheryl, Peter and Elizabeth. Survived also by a host of loving friends and relatives. Her career in the NYC sch
 Rosina Lawrence, whose brief but bright film career still flickers on the home screen in the ''Our Gang,''  ''Little Rascals'' and Laurel and Hardy classics, died on June 23 at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Brooklyn and on Mackinac Island, Mich. Miss Lawrence, who wa
 Sanjukta Panigrahi, a classical dancer from India who toured the United States as a foremost exponent of the Orissi style, died on June 24 at her home in Bhubaneshwar in the Indian state of Orissa. She was 65. She died of cancer, said the Indian dancer Indrani, who lives and teaches
 BOHMAN-Madeline A. The staff and friends of Bellevue Hospital Center mourn the death of its beloved former Executive Director. Our condolences to her family and loved ones.       
 LUNZER-Shoshana (Rose). We are heartbroken at the loss of our beloved sister, sister-in-law, and aunt, and mourn with Peter, her devoted husband, and adoring children, Ben, Jay, Francesca and David and their families. Shoshana strove throughout her life to fulfill the ideals of learning, pi
 MELZAK-Blossom. Beloved wife of Sidney, devoted mother of Bennett and Robert. Fondly remembered by her many friends and coworkers at Jewish Memorial Hospital and the YMYWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood. Services at Hirsch & Sons, 1225 Jerome Ave, Bronx, Monday, July 7, 11:30.       
 MOORE-Shirley I. Beloved aunt of Leto Copeley of Durham, NC, and Kevan P. Moore of Orlando, FL. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Sunday 5-8 PM. Funeral service 10 A.M., Monday, July 7, 1997, at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, Madison Ave. at 73 St. In li
 PROPPER de Callejon-Helene. ''Bubbles'' died peacefully in London, Saturday, June 28, in her 90th year. Widow of Eduardo Propper de Callejon, former Minister-Counselor at the Spanish Embassy in Washington, D.C., beloved mother of Felipe Propper and Elena Bonham-Carter. Loving grandmother of
 Dorothy Buffum Chandler, whose vision and fund-raising fervor helped transform modern Los Angeles and who as the wife and mother of successive publishers helped turn The Los Angeles Times into one of the nation's great newspapers, died on Sunday at a rest home in Hollywood. She was 96.     
 ALWEIL - DIVACK - Harriet. On July 6, 1997. Survived by husband Max. Beloved mother of Richard Alweil and Jayne Varrone. Loving mother-in-law of Judy and Joe, cherished grandmother of Eric, Karen, Adam and Marc. Great grandmother of four. She was loved and will be missed by all.       
 AXTHELM-M. Bonnie. Died on July 3 at her home in East Norwalk, CT., with her family at her bedside. The cause was cancer. Ms. Axthelm was the Executive Director, Corporate Marketing and Public Affairs, 3M/Europe, stationed in Brussels. She was the beloved daughter of Marjorie Axthelm Scholl
 BISHOP-Jane. On July 4, 1997. Of Philadelphia. Age 68. Daughter of the late Donald and Janet (nee Redman) Bishop. Survived by a sister Nancy Bishop of Lincolnville, ME. Service and interment private. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions made in her name to Wellesley College, Office for
 BLACK-Rita B., PhD. The Columbia University School of Social Work community is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Dr. Rita B. Black. An esteemed professor and valued friend, her extraordinary courage and indomitable spirit will remain an inspiration to all who knew her. Sincerest symp
 CHIPURNOI-Mae. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 GROSS-Froma Mae, on July 7, 3 weeks after the passing of her brother Samuel B. Katz. Beloved mother to Joseph and Bernard Miller, grandmother and greatgrandmother, cherished sister to Rabbi Reuben M. Katz. Extraordinary worker for AMIT Women. Services Tuesday 11:30 A.M. at Midwood Chapel, C
 LESHNE-Renee. Beloved wife of Robert, devoted mother of Liane, cherished sister of Martin, on July 6, 1997. She will be sorely missed. Private services. LESHNE-Renee. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the beloved wife of Dr. Robert Leshne; mother of Liane Leshne; a
 LUNZER-Shoshana. The Young Israel of the West Side mourns the passing of our dear member and friend, Shoshana Lunzer. We extend our condolences to her beloved husband J. Peter, her sister, our devoted member Anita Chanowitz and all of her dear relatives. May the Comforter of Zion console th
 MAGID-Joan. Beloved daughter of the late Lily and Joseph Magid. Dear sister of Ruth Woolfe and her husband Dan and the late Helen Rappaport. Loving aunt and great-aunt. ''She will be missed.'' Graveside services at 1 P.M., on Wednesday at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. Memorial serv
 TAFT-Martin. National Council of Jewish Women, Brooklyn Section, extends heartfelt sympathy to our Membership Vice President, Janet Taft, on the loss of her husband Martin. Anne Berger, Rita Berger, Co-Presidents       
 Mumeo Oku, a pioneer in Japan's consumer movement and an early campaigner for women's rights, died on Monday at her Tokyo home. She was 101. Mrs. Oku founded the Housewives' Association, one of Japan's first and best-known consumer groups, and remained its leader for decades. She al
 DIAMONDSTEIN-Ruth. Beloved wife of Milton, devoted mother of Barbara and Lester Ostrick, Joanne, and Michael Goldstein and Jerry Diamondstein. Adored grandmother of Ellen, Felicia, Jeffrey, Robert and Brian. Graveside services will be held today at Riverside Cemetery in Rochelle Park, New J
 GROSS-Froma Mae. AMIT is deeply grieved at the passing of Froma Mae Gross, a true Woman of Valor who epitomized volunteerism. Her decades of service as a professional and Chairwoman of our Weekends Division exemplified her unfailing dedication and devotion to the ''Forgotten Children of Isr
 KOBIN-Dorothea Harding, of Los Angeles, California, on July 2, at home of breast cancer. Survived by her adoring husband, William H. Kobin, her daughters Robin and Jennifer Chotzinoff of Denver, CO, her grandchildren Nicholas, Selvy and Constance Hnatkowycz and her brothers James Harding of
 KOSLOW-Sara. Age 97, on July 7, 1997, of Paterson, NJ. Survived by her children; Elaine and Seymour Canter, and Rita and Jack Nadler; her grandchildren, Amy, Peter, and Kassie Canter, and Jennifer, Matthew, and Evan Nadler; and five great-grandchildren. Services are today, Wednesday, 1:30 P
 LUBETKIN-Alice Green. Age 91 on July 7, 1997, following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Jacques, loving mother of John, Elizabeth and James Lubetkin, and mother-in-law of Linda Lubetkin, Barry Lipton and Roberta Lubetkin. Cherished grandmother of Jordan, Dylan, William and Alexande
 Roberta Gorsuch Burke, one of America's best known military wives who was affectionately known as ''the first lady of the United States Navy,'' died on Friday at her home in Fairfax, Va. She was 98. Mrs. Burke was the widow of Adm. Arleigh A. Burke, who was Chief of Naval Operations
 BARASCH - Florence, passed away peacefully on Tuesday, July 8th. She was the beloved wife of the late Irving, devoted mother of Barbara Wilkinson and Leslie Morris, cherished mother-in-law of Joel and loving Grams of Benjamin and Jonathan.       
 BENDER-Lillian, July 7, 1997, nee Zebooker. Loving wife of Dr. Israel Boris Bender of Philadelphia. Devoted mother of Dr. Andrew Bender and Susan (Alan) Blumstein. Loyal sister of Dr. Eli Zebooker. Adoring grandmother of Rachel, Deborah, Eve and Zachary. Great-grandmother of Emily. Services
 BORODIN-Hedi. On July 7, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Boris. Cherished aunt of Dorothy Battel and Thomas Klein. Great aunt of David Battel and Julia Battel. In lieu of flowers contributions in her name to Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts would be appreciated.       
 FEINBERG-Etta Fischbach, 91, on July 8, 1997. Beloved wife of Bernard, mother of Nina, grandmother of Jessica and Sophie. A dedicated pianist and teacher, one of the first graduates of the Juilliard School of Music, she studied under Bessie Clay, Alexander Lambert and Carl Friedberg, contin
 GARRETT-Mary Regina (Ginger). On July 9, 1997, of Forest Hills, New York. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Nancy, Kathy, John, Mary and her husband Dave, and Mike. Devoted sister of Jerry, Dotsy Curley, Brian and John, and her sister-in-law Aline Garrett. Also survived by nie
 HERTZ-Anna Marie, in her 90th year. Wife of the late Harry F. Hertz. Mother of the late Herbert. Good friend to many. Services Friday 9:30AM at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (at 76th Road), Forest Hills.       
 HOWELL-Betsy (Mrs. J. Taylor). It is with sadness that the Goddard Riverside Community Center acknowledges the passing of our longtime Board member. She served with diligence and devotion in every phase of our community work with particular emphasis on our Creative Arts programs. Betsy was 
 KOBIN-Dorothea Harding, of Los Angeles, California, on July 2, at home of breast cancer. Survived by her adoring husband, William H. Kobin, her daughters Robin and Jennifer Chotzinoff of Denver, CO, her grandchildren Nicholas Selvy and Constance Hnatkowycz and her brothers James Harding of 
 LUBETKIN-Alice Green. Age 91 on July 7, 1997, following a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Jacques, loving mother of John, Elizabeth and James Lubetkin, and mother-in-law of Linda Lubetkin, Barry Lipton and Roberta Lubetkin. Cherished grandmother of Jordan, Dylan, William and Alexande
 MILLER-Rita, of Great River, NY, died Wednesday, July 9, 1997, among family at the home of her daughter. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Morris Miller. Sister of Doris Kapner. Beloved mother of Jesse, Sari and Deborah and adored grandmother of Gurumukh, Sirimukh, Devmukh, Santmukh, Sarah, Moll
 MONROE-Phyllis. We mourn the untimely loss of our dear friend and former colleague, Phyllis Monroe. She was a highly capable and intelligent lawyer, a warm human being who possessed a wonderful sense of humor. She will be sorely missed and may she rest in peace. Robert M. Morgenthau and the
 SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. The Women's Leadership Forum of the DNC acknowledges with deepest regret the passing of Dr. Betty Shabazz, an active and outstanding member since the Forum's inception. The knowledge, experience, depth, and humanity Dr. Shabazz brought to our discourse will be greatly mis
 SHINDEL-Enid. Temple Israel Lawrence, New York, mourns the death of its beloved member and extends deepest sympathy to her family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 VANNONI-Caroline. The Ocean Bay Park Association sadly notes the passing of its member, ''Lena Vannoni'', and offers condolences to her family.       
 CARPENTER-Jan. The employees of J.T. Falk & Company and Falk Technical Service express their deepest sympathies at the passing on July 10, 1997 of Jan Carpenter, beloved daughter of Louise and Gerry Falk, and to her husband Tom and son John.       
 DONIGER-Ann, age 86, on July 9, 1997. Devoted wife to her late husband Irving. Loving mother and grandmother and active participant in Jewish organizations and her congregation. She will be missed by her sons Paul and Jay, grandchildren Stephen, Elizabeth and Jeremy, and daughters-in-law Gl
 DULCHIN-Gertrude. On July 6. Beloved wife of the late Eli. Survived by daughters Marilyn, Elaine and Bonnie, three son-inlaws Armin, Jerry and Barry, and eight grandchildren. She will be in our hearts forever.       
 GARRETT-Mary Regina (Ginger), on July 9, 1997 of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Nancy, Kathy, John, Mary and her husband Dave and Mike. Devoted sister of Jerry, Brian and John Galvin, Dotsy Curley, and her sister-in-law Aline Garrett. Reposing Fox Funeral 
 HERTZ-Anna Marie, in her 90th year. Wife of the late Harry F. Hertz. Mother of the late Herbert. Good friend to many. Services Friday 9:30AM at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (at 76th Road), Forest Hills.       
 KOBIN-Dorothea Harding, of Los Angeles, California, on July 2, at home of breast cancer. Survived by her adoring husband, William H. Kobin, her daughters Robin and Jennifer Chotzinoff of Denver, CO, her grandchildren Nicholas Selvy and Constance Hnatkowycz and her brothers James Harding of 
 SHINDEL-Enid. We deeply mourn the loss of our friend and devoted past board member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her bereaved family. She was loved by all who were privileged to have known her. The Women's Auxiliary of Inwood Country Club SHINDEL-Enid. The Board of Governo
 BERNKLAU-Dorothy Riss, 2 April 1926-11 July 1991. Remembered fondly, 2192 days later. Her children, David and Renee, and 1118day-old granddaughter Danielle.       
 Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. Betsy Howell, as sh
 ADLER-Marian R., age 65. On July 11, 1997. Of Boynton Beach, Florida. Formerly of Glen Rock, New Jersey. Predeceased by her husband, William in 1995. Mother of Cathy and John Feldman, Nancy and Steven Manket and Beth and Steven Berns. Sister of Stuart Ratner. Beloved grandmother of Amy, Dav
 AMSTER-Margaret Pope. On July 10, at age 83. An artist, free thinker, generous friend. A devoted wife to her late husband Leonard Amster. She will be greatly missed by her loving sister, Helen Manopoli of Spring Lake, NJ, her niece, Jane Manopoli Patterson of Boston, her nephew, John Manopo
 BEKENSTEIN-Doris Powell. An energetic and admired woman who will be greatly missed by her family and friends. Devoted wife of Arthur for 51 years; mother of Stefanie, Josh and Seth. Adored grandmother of eight. Caring sister of Beatrice Jaye and Isabel Kogel. Memorial gathering at 1pm, Sund
 BERELSON-Eleanor, on July 10, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Milton Berelson. A loving, caring and charitable woman who will be missed by her son Stuart Berelson, daughter-in-law Betty, grandchildren Joel, Lori, Wendy, and greatgranddaughter Courtney and dear friends Claudine Jones and Anne
 BODDIE-Gertrude L. Died June 12 in Las Vegas, Nevada where she resided since 1985. She had an impressive career as Manager with The New York City Housing Authority. She was the first African-American manager of Co-op City, Bronx, New York. ''Those who loved me know my appreciation.'' She re
 GOLDBERG-Marion (nee Norch), 83, passed away July 6, 1997 in Los Angeles. Beloved wife of the late Carl Goldberg; loving mother of Carole, Robert, Arlene and Barbara; devoted sister to Dorothy and Dick and the late Anne; adored grandmother of Staci, David and Jarrett. The cherished memories
 LEVY-Madeleine Corcos Age 78 on July 8, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Levy. Superb and loving mother of Samuel, Rene, Maurice, Francois, Liliane Winn Shalom, Rita Czech, Marilyn Levy. Cherished grandmother of Dominique, Elie, Orlie, Nathalie, Daniel, Celeste, Candice, Dorion, Debora
 MENDELSON - Marjorie. Born March 11, 1911, in New York City to Dr. Bernard Weiss and Hermine Weiss. Died peacefully on July 6, 1997 in Medford, NJ. A graduate of Wells College, Class of 1932, Marjorie was known and loved for her acute intellect, personal fortitude, cultured demeanor, humor,
 RUBIN-Muriel. Devoted wife of the late Jack, loving mother of Burton and Sue Rubin and Ivan and the late Mona Rubin. Adored grandmother of Jamie, Debra, Fred and Margot. Cherished great grandmother of Melanie and Jordan. Loving sister of Hortense Herman and Arnold Greenfield. Services were 
 SENEGAS-Helen, 85, died July 8, from cancer of the pancreas. She attended the Ethical Culture School, the Fieldston School, and Yale Art School. She was a commercial artist and life long resident of New York City. She leaves two daughters, Jean Senegas and Kay Gottesman, and two grandsons E
 STEINIG-Selma. 77, on July 10, 1997 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and Tanya, Stephen and Renee, Richard and Debby. Adoring grandmother of Michael, Karen and Jeff, Deborah, Lynn, and David. Dear sister of Stanley and Nina Weitzner and Gloria and Morris Cohen. Loving aunt a
 ADLER-Rebecca Betty. 84, of The Eddy Memorial Geriatric Center, Troy, NY, died Friday at home after a long illness. Born in New York City, she was the daugher of the late Louis L. and Augusta Silberstein Adler. She had resided in New York City most of her life, retiring to Dania, FL, in 197
 FRUCHTER-Rachel G. 57, died July 12, 1997. We, who worked with her at HealthRight, an organization she helped found, cherish her as a wise and caring feminist. Her unflagging commitment to women, combined with science, saved lives. Deepest sympathy to Norm, Lev, Chenda and Jill. The Women o
 HAFT-Estelle. Women's League for Conservative Judaism, South Shore Long Island/Brooklyn Branch, expresses with deep sorrow the death of our beloved President, Estelle Haft. She will be sorely missed by all her Sisterhood friends. Sincere condolences are expressed to the Haft, Solomon and Mo
 ISAACS-Helen (Coolidge Adams) of Boston and South Dartmouth, MA, widow of the late Kenneth L. Isaacs, Chairman of Massachusetts Investors Trust, died Saturday, July 11, 1997. She passed away at her home on Beacon Street, Boston, overlooking the Boston Public Gardens and Boston Common. As a 
 NEWMAN-Muriel Orenstein, of Sunrise, FL, formerly of New York City. Died on July 12, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Newman. She will be missed by her sons Kenneth, Ralph and Glenn; daughters-in-law Michele and Anne; grandchildren Douglas, Jason, Andrew, Emily and Greg. Memorial serv
 REICHMAN-Vivian. The Board of Directors of Tower Vallencay of Ibis Isle express their profound condolences on the passing of a good friend and neighbor, ''Toni'' Reichman. To her family, our deepest sympathies on their loss. Arthur Rodbell, President       
 SALZONE-Jeanne. July 12, 1997, in New York City. Surviving are her sister Andree Fouant and brother - in - law Andre - Louis Fouant; her nieces and nephews Andre and Monique Fouant, Grace and Linda Salzone, Claude Huben and Raymond Tardieu; and her sister-in-law Yosette Tardieu. Services Tu
 SPERBER-Natalie. Age 87. Died July 12, 1997. Will be missed by her nephews, nieces, grandnephews and nieces and great-grandnephews and nieces, their spouses, and friends who deeply cherished her.       
 WOHL-Renee. Died peacefully after a long illness. Beloved wife of Irving for 56 years. Mother of Gary and Harriet and mother-inlaw of Elizabeth Wohl and Jonathan Goldstein. Grandmother of James and Johanna Goldstein. A woman of great charity and strength, we will miss her always.       
 Alexandra Danilova, an internationally popular ballet star known for her vivacity and theatrical flair, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. Beloved by audiences in a performing career that extended from the Imperial Russian Ballet of St. Petersburg to Sergei Diaghil
 BERLINER-Rabbi Albert. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Elana Tepler on the loss of her father, Rabbi Albert Berliner. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 DANILOVA - Alexandra. The School of American Ballet notes with great sadness the death of Alexandra Danilova, a brilliant ballerina and an extraordinary teacher. Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Curtis Harnack, and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff join the entire SAB family i
 FRUCHTER-Rachel G. The Health Science Center community mourns the death of a dedicated and beloved faculty member and extends its profound sympathies to her family. Dr. Fruchter was a member of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for nearly 25 years. A respected researcher, she was 
 HOFFMAN-Min (nee Selesnick), of Manhasset Hills, NY. Devoted wife of Herbert. Beloved mother of Janet Schwartz, Brian and Amy Hoffman, Richard Hoffman, and Elizabeth and Richard Baker. Adored ''Nana'' of Melissa, Chelsey, Emily, Ian, and Annie. Devoted sister of Jack and Betty Selesnick and
 KURZ-Mae. (Nee Tannenbaum). Died peacefully in her sleep in her 93rd year on July 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Michael L. Kurz. Devoted Mother of Rhoda Gruen, Judith Foster and Brenda Kurz. Loving Grandmother of Daniel Gruen, Miriam Kosowsky, Julia and Lily Foster, Great-Grandmo
 LAGATT-Angela H., on July 13, 1997 in Albany, NY. She is survived by her husband of 53 years, John J. Lagatt of Albany; a son, David J. Lagatt of Albany; a daughter, Jeanne M. Lagatt of Albany. She was predeceased by a sister, Sr. Mary Owen Hurley, S.M. Funeral services will be Wednesday at
 LEICHTMAN - Esther. Dearest mother of Francine Tancer (Michael). Devoted wife of the late Jacob Leichtman. Loving grandmother of Joan Tancer and Susan Tolchin. Cherished great grandmother of Jennifer and Eric. Died peacefully at home after a long and wonderful life. She was a lifelong suppo
 NADLER-Harriet (Chayale). On July 14, 1997. Beloved wife of fifty years of Joseph. Loving mother of Maxine Karas, Lesly Freed & L. Gerod Nadler. Beloved mother-in-law of Phil, Jodi and Don. Dear sister of Sydell and Leon Hattem and Melvin and Oura Lev. Adored grandmother of Ricky, Nicky, Ga
 NEWMAN-Muriel Orenstein, of Sunrise, Florida, formerly of New York City. Died on July 12, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Newman. She will be missed by her sons Kenneth, Ralph and Glenn: daughters-in-law Michele and Anne; grandchildren Douglas, Jason, Andrew, Emily and Greg. Memorial
 REICHMAN-Vivian C. (Toni). Passed away at her home in Palm Beach, FL on July 13, 1997. She was a vibrant, loving, beautiful lady who was born in New York City and was a long time resident of Purchase, NY. She was the devoted daughter of Charles and Jessie Lamport Cohen, and the loving wife 
 YOUNG-Florence (nee English), on July 12, 1997 in Jamesburg, NJ at age 90. Born in Saranac Lake, NY, resident of Manhattan, Rockville Centre and Rocky Hill, NJ. Taught art at Jackson H.S., St. Albans, Queens. Excelled in oil and watercolor painting, graphic arts, handcrafts and photography.
 DANILOVA-Alexandra. On July 13, 1997. Famed ballerina, teacher and choreographer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Wednesday 5-8 P.M. Service Thursday 5 P.M. DANILOVA - Alexandra. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief; Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman o
 GETRAER-Anne (nee Kevelson), died July 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Irving Getraer, devoted mother of Linda, Steven and Betty Getraer. Adoring sister of Al Kevelson. Cherished grandmother of Mark and Rebecca Katz and Debra and David Getraer. Greatgrandmother of Alyson Ruth Katz. She w
 KNOWLTON-Abbie Ingalls, MD. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University records with deep sorrow the death of its devoted alumna on July 15, 1997. A graduate of the Class of 1942, she trained at Presbyterian Hospital, then joined the facult
 LEICHTMAN - Esther. Dearest mother of Francine Tancer (Michael). Devoted wife of the late Jacob Leichtman. Loving grandmother of Joan Tancer and Susan Tolchin. Cherished great grandmother of Jennifer and Eric. Died peacefully at home after a long and wonderful life. She was a lifelong suppo
 MAURI-Isabella A. Of Pittsburgh, PA. On Saturday, July 12, 1997. Beloved wife of Willie B. Roland, Jr. Dear sister of Fiorella Mauri of Woodside, N.Y. Isabella was an avid tenant's association leader throughout Queens County. She was a proud graduate of Duquesne University's Saturday Colleg
 MUNITZ-Rosalind Siller. On July 13, 1997, our beloved darling mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, and daughter of the late Leah and Israel Siller passed away. We all lost our best friend. She will always be in our hearts. We miss you dearly, Ma Rozzie. Rest in peace.       
 REICHMAN-Vivian. The Board of Directors of the Altschul Foundation mourns the passing of Vivian Reichman, its esteemed director and officer for more than 20 years and extends to her family and friends its sincerest condolences. We will miss her wise counsel, her compassion, her dedication a
 REICHMAN-Vivian C. (Toni). Passed away at her home in Palm Beach, FL on July 13, 1997. She was a vibrant, loving, beautiful lady who was born in New York City and was a long time resident of Purchase, NY. She was the devoted daughter of Charles and Jessie Lamport Cohen, and the loving wife 
 TORNEY-Helen (nee Clooney). July 13, 1997, aged 82. Wife of the late Vincent J. Mother of Barbara, Deirdre, Martha, Patricia, James, Brenda and the late Deborah. Grandmother of Vincent & Gabriel Torney, Holland, Elizabeth and Benjamin Mills; and Ann and James Fortune. Mother-in-law of Berna
 Rachel Gillett Fruchter, the Brooklyn biochemist who died in a bicycle accident on Saturday, was known for her research in gynecological cancer, as well as her commitment to women's health issues. She was 57 and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. Dr. Fruchter was killed wh
 Meribeth Elliott Cameron, professor emeritus of history and former acting president at Mount Holyoke College, died on Saturday at Mount Holyoke Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 92 and lived in South Hadley, Mass. A scholar of modern Chinese history, Dr. Cameron was on the Mount Ho
 FISHER-Eleanore. On July 15, 1997, beloved wife of Bernard, loving mother of Dick Fisher and Jane Fisher Hamilton, devoted mother-in-law of Allan Hamilton, dear sister of Judge Newton Greenberg, adoring grandmother of Joshua, Luke, Alexa, Zoe, and Tessa. Services Friday 10 A.M. at ''The Riv
 FRUCHTER-Rachel, Ph.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecololgy at State University of New York-Health Science Center at Brooklyn and Kings County Hospital Center mourns the death of its beloved & dedicated faculty member, Dr. Rachel Fruchter. Dr. Fruchter was appointed to faculty in th
 GOLDSTEIN-Ethel. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Ethel Goldstein, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 KAUFMANN-Doris (nee Stern), widow of George Kaufmann, loving mother, grandmother, and sister, of John, Alexander, Nicholas and Didi, mother-in-law of Rose, passed away on Saturday, 12 July, after a long illness. She will always be in our thoughts.       
 KNOWLTON-Abbie Ingalls, M.D. The Department of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University notes with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Abbie Ingalls Knowlton, Clinical Professor of Medicine, whose association with and contributions to our Department extend back nea
 MCSHERRY-Ursula Mary. Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Jeanne-Marie and Richard. Loving sister of Julie Coletto of Boca Raton, Florida, Evelyn Larkin of Dumfries, Virginia and Thomas Healy of New Hyde Park, NY. Ursula's kindness touched numerous lives. She was a devoted volunteer. 
 POGROW-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Rhoda Pogrow on the loss of her husband, Morris. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SCHNEIDER-Allen. The Parker family wants to express our deepest sympathy to Rose and her children on the departure of her beloved husband Al. Our dear friend of a lifetime will be missed but always remembered. Norma and Jack Parker       
 STESSIN-Nancy. The entire Juilliard Community mourns the death of Nancy Stessin, who worked very closely with her husband Herbert Stessin in the teaching of piano at all levels at the Juilliard School. We extend our deepest condolences to Herbert and the Stessin family. Mary Rodgers Guettel
 CALDER-Abbie Ingalls Knowlton, on July 15, 1997. Known professionally as Dr. Abbie Knowlton, Clinical Professor of Medicine in Endocrinology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. She is survived by her husband, Kenneth T. Calder, M.D.; son, Thomas Calder; daughter, Mary
 CONNELLY - Eleanor Milburn. Died July 16, 1997 at 91. Survived by her husband, Albert Ray Connelly; two daughters, Mary Graff & Jean Mooney; 2 grandchildren, Alexandra and Clare Mooney, and a great-grandson Henry Nullet. Memorial service 11 AM, Monday, July 21 at St. James' Episcopal Church
 GALSTON-Nina Moore. Died on July 16th, 1997 in Westwood, Massachusetts. Formerly from Cold Spring Harbor, NY, she is survived by her husband, Clarence E. Galston, her son, William Shields of Hamilton, MA, her stepchildren, Jill Walsh, John Galston and Linda Fates, her grandsons, Will, Chris
 SALKIND-Clare. Writers and Artists for Peace in the Middle East mourns her sudden passing on July 15, 1997 and expresses its deepest gratitude for her many years of devoted and outstanding services to our organization and to Israel. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Jewish Nati
 STESSIN-Nancy. The entire Juilliard Community mourns the death of Nancy Stessin, who worked very closely with her husband Herbert Stessin in the teaching of piano at all levels at the Juilliard School. We extend our deepest condolences to Herbert and the Stessin family. Mary Rodgers Guettel
 FELDMAN-Rachael. Much cherished and loved by her husband, Charles; her son Stephen, her daughter Jill Robin Schapiro, her granddaughters Laurie Taft Balk, Julie Schapiro Thorman and Kate Robin, her grandson Joshua Schapiro and five great grandchildren.       
 OESTREICH-Diana, mother of Yael, daughter of Sara and the late Sam Rubinstein, wife of Elliott Landy. Her spirit will live on in the hearts of those who love her. Services Sunday, 1 P.M., Woodstock Jewish Congregation, 914-246-1671.       
 RANLET-Suzanne Hanckel. Widow of the late Robert Ranlet Jr. Died at her home in Keene, VA, on July 13, 1997 at the age of 92. Before W.W. II, she had lived with her husband in New York City where he was a banker and member of Squadron ''A''. During the war, she worked in naval intelligence 
 APPLEBAUM-Stella (Prizand), 69, July 12. Ballet teacher extraordinaire, mourned throughout the dance world. Our condolences to all whose lives her artistic creativity touched in so many positive ways, especially her grandchildren, Ariel, Benjamin & Max. Stella, we love you and we miss you. 
 ASKWITH-Edna, Jerry. On Sunday July 13, 1997. At home in Washington, D.C. Loving sister of Bert Askwith of Harrison, NY, Jean Gretz of Alamo, CA, and Marjorie Bowman of Redondo Beach, CA. Dear sister-in-law of Mimi Askwith and Charles Gretz. Adored aunt of eleven nieces and nephews and thir
 CARNOW-Caryl Taishoff. Of Manhattan, world traveler, suddenly on June 8, 1997 in Capetown, South Africa of a motor vehicle accident in her 69th year. Beloved friend and companion of James Graham. Beloved mother of David Carnow (Rosanna) of Warren, NJ; Donald Carnow (Heidi) of Wilmette, IL; 
 CONNELLY - Eleanor Milburn. Died July 16, 1997 at 91. Survived by her husband, Albert Ray Connelly; two daughters, Mary Graff & Jean Mooney; 2 grandchildren, Alexandra and Clare Mooney, and a great-grandson Henry Nullet. Memorial service 11 AM, Monday, July 21 at St. James' Episcopal Church
 COWAN-Judith Amster. 61, beloved wife of Lawrence Cowan and wonderful mother to Andrew and Jennifer, died at home in Los Angeles on July 18, 1997. Born in Brooklyn to Philip and Mildred Loeb Amster, Judy graduated from Vassar College in 1956. Judy is also survived by her dear cousins Jane, 
 GOLDEN-Bella L. Died peacefully at age 101, Friday night, July 18, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Samuel; wonderful and loving mother to Irene Dash and Allen Golden and mother-in-law to Martin Dash; adoring grandmother of Deborah Dash Moore and MacDonald Moore, Deena and Sidney Kushner, Gly
 HEISLER-Florence A. Westbury Friends School Board mourns the passing of Florence Heisler, Ph.D, dedicated and long term supporter of the school. She died in her Bentley Village retirement home in Florida on June 3, 1997. She was born on April 3, 1909 and was a member of the Religious Societ
 HUTTON-Maridean Watt, of New York City, died in Edina, MN, on July 13, 1997. Survived by mother Christine Watt and sister Carolyn Reynolds. Meridean taught art in Yonkers, NY. In recent years she created a program for children at the Museum of American Folk Art in NYC. Memorial service to b
 LEINWAND - Brenda Rediker. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Brenda Rediker Leinwand. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Da
 OESTREICH-Anne. July 18, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted mother of Howard Oestreich & Suzanne Krystal. Loving grandmother of Amy Kriegel, Michelle, Adam and Nicole Oestreich and great grandmother of Sherri Kriegel. Graveside service on Sunday 10 A.M., Old Montefiore Cemetery.
 PEARSE-Virginia R., of Vero Beach, FL., died July 10, 1997 at home in Chatham, Mass., at the age of 83. Mrs. Pearse was born in Evanston, Illinois, and had lived in Rumson, New Jersey; St. Croix, Virgin Islands; and Delray Beach, FL. She is survived by her husband, Robert G. Pearse, Delray 
 RUBEL-Fannie W. Died suddenly on May 30. Wife of the late Adolph A. Rubel. Respected grandmother, friend, photographer and nature lover. Her wry sense of humor and individualism will be missed by all who knew her. Memorial tribute will be held on August 2 at 2PM at the Epiphany Branch Libra
 SALKIND-Clare. Of New York and Delray Beach. Our beloved Aunt Clare will be sorely missed by her legion of friends as well as her nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and many cousins who cherished her. All recognized her as a lady of indomitable spirit, warmth and love. Our tears are
 SHAW-Beth C. On July 17, 1997, in Florida, formerly of Pound Ridge, NY. Survivors include her husband John F.; a daughter Pamela Bellmore; a son Steven; two stepdaughters, Emily Appleton and Linda Neave; a sister Faye Moon; two brothers Carl and Jim Cotner; seven grandchildren and three gre
 WETTEREAU-Mari Hayes. Of Sagaponack, NY, suddenly on July 17, 1997. Survived by loving son, James O. Wettereau and by her sister Louise Nelson and two nieces Laura Baez and Joan Blaso. Loving widow of the late James O. Wettereau. A memorial service to be held in September at a time and plac
 COWAN-Judith Amster. 61, beloved wife of Lawrence Cowan and wonderful mother to Andrew and Jennifer, died at home in Los Angeles on July 18, 1997. Born in Brooklyn to Philip and Mildred Loeb Amster, Judy graduated from Vassar College in 1956. Judy is also survived by her dear cousins Jane, 
 INGERMAN-Helen K., of Northport, New York on July 19. Beloved wife of the late Percy Ingerman. Mother of Philip, Peter, David, Steven and the late Sarah Ingerman. Loving grandmother of Helen M. Ingerman, Carmen M. Ingerman, Edward S. P. Ingerman and Diana M. Ingerman. Dear sister of Stanley
 KOPPELMAN-Ruth. A lifelong best friend and wife to Irving, a devoted, nurturing proud mother to Rosalind and Charles, a kind, caring mother-in-law to Edward and Bunny, an encouraging, involved grandmother to Lawrence, Suzanne, Karyn, Brian, Stacy and Jennifer, and a loving great-grandmother
 DAVIS-Elvira J. July 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph J. Davis. Loving and adored mother of Mary Ann Davis Goldstone and Richard J. Davis. Survived also by three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Most giving of her time for many charities for many years, volunteering at ho
 FEFFERMAN-Barbara Ohrbach. Of Cathedral City, California. Died July 17, 1997 at Desert Hospital Hospice in Palm Springs. She is survived by her mother Ree Ohrbach, her husband Frank, five children and six grandchildren. Services will be held noon Monday at Ramon Chapel, in Cathedral City, C
 GOLDEN-Bella. The West End Synogogue community mourns the loss of its oldest member. However, Bella Golden, at 101, matriarch of four generations of Reconstructionist Jews, has already passed on to and through her remarkable family her generosity of spirit, her creative talents expressed in
 JAFFE-Winnifred. After a long illness, Winnifred Jaffe passed away on July 21, 1997. She was born October 16, 1898 and spent almost half a century in education. Her educational degrees were from Teacher's College, Columbia University. Her teaching was almost entirely in Ridgefield, N.J. She
 ROBINSON-Mrs. Anne I. (Mrs. Guy Norman Robinson) of New Canaan, CT. The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. deeply regret the passing on July 18, 1997 of our former President (1976-1990), Mrs. Guy Norman Robinson. She was a stalwart force for good and the finest kind of New York vo
 SARD-Marguerite Cochran, former wife of the late mathematician Arthur Sard, died in her home June 18, 1997 in Chula Vista, Ca. Marguerite was born in 1910 in Narberth, Pennsylvania, and brought up in Philadelphia where she graduated from Friends Select School. She attended Connecticut Colle
 STEFFENS-Madeline U. Age 82 of Virginia Beach died on Saturday, July 19, 1997. Mrs. Steffens was born December 20, 1914, in the Bronx, N.Y. She is the daughter of the late Thomas and Marion Driscoll Ward. She is a graduate of Mt. Saint Ursula High School and Panzer College. She was a North 
 TALLEY-Madelon DeVoe, 65; married to Truman M. Talley in 1953, she is also survived by her brother, Raymond F. DeVoe, Jr., and leaves three children, Mrs. Melanie T. Whatley, Macdonald W. Talley and Marina H. Talley. Born in New York City, Mrs. Talley attended Columbia and graduated from Sa
 ZOFFER-Patricia. On July 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Berthold Zoffer. Loving mother of Evan Zoffer. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, 11:30AM. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Save the R
 Madelon DeVoe Talley, an investment manager who was one of Wall Street's first female executives, died Friday in a car accident near Wyndam, N.Y., her husband, Truman M. Talley, said. She was 65. Despite a longtime interest in finance, Mrs. Talley did not begin her career until 1969
 GILLEN-Martha (Mitchell). On July 18. Beloved wife of the late John M. Devoted mother of John, Joan M. Tracey and son-in-law Bernard J. Tracey. Loving grandmother of William, Karen, John & Cynthia (deceased). Also survived by her beloved sister Helen Sullivan & many nieces and nephews. In l
 HAMBURG-Frances. The Board of Governors and membership of Tam O'Shanter Club regret the passing of their member Frances Hamburg. Our sincere condolences to her family. Robert Katz, President Donald Freedman, Secretary       
 JAFFE-Winnifred. After a long illness, Winnifred Jaffe passed away on July 21, 1997. She was born October 16, 1898 and spent almost half a century in education. Her educational degrees were from Teacher's College, Columbia University. Her teaching was almost entirely in Ridgefield, N.J. She
 MALTZER-Lillian. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations mourn the sudden death of a longtime Trustee and friend. She was a proud, caring Jew, who served our sacred causes with great devotion. We extend profound sympathy to her life's partner, Joseph, her
 MINSKY-Gertrude. Gertrude Minsky passed away peacefully July 21, 1997. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur Minsky; the most wonderful mother to Joan Minsky and Ann and Mark Levitt; a kind, wise and nurturing grandmother to Emily Jacobs, Stefanie Jacobs, Jennifer Levitt and Jason
 MONTAGUE-Margaret Abbott. Of Southport, Connecticut. On July 20, 1997, in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late John Tyree Montague. Mother of Landa Montague Freeman of Bedford Village, New York, and Peter Gunn Montague of Annapolis, MD. Grandmother of Willoughby Burditt Levesque, Peter M
 PALM-Anne. Passed away on Saturday, July 19, 1997. Pre-deceased by her husband Charles Palm and brother Joseph Klempka. Survived by one son and daughter-inlaw Greg and Marie Palm of London, England and Summit, N.J. Two granddaughters: Jennifer Palm of New York and Katherine Palm of Summit, 
 SILBERT-Shirley Jane (nee Halper), of Pembroke Pines, Fla. and Ridge, NY, suddenly July 20, 1997 in her 76th year. Beloved wife of Mitchell. Loving mother of Alan, Joan, & Carol. Dear grandmother of Jennifer and Lauren Silbert, Eli & Adam Cook, and Joshua Streit. Private service at Mount Ar
 TALLEY-Madelon DeVoe, 65; married to Truman M. Talley in 1953, she is also survived by her brother, Raymond F. DeVoe, Jr., and leaves three children, Mrs. Melanie T. Whatley, Macdonald W. Talley and Marina H. Talley. Born in New York City, Mrs. Talley attended Columbia and graduated from Sa
 RIDDLE-Grace. July 23, 1996, of Princeton, NJ. Mother of George & Adele. Grandmother of Margaret, Adele, George. Sister of Harriet Brown. Dear friend of Jennie Marinella. Second only to the love of family, her vibrant and enthusiastic approach to life and love of NYC are sadly missed. Mrs. 
 ABOLAFIA-Bonnie. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Bonnie Abolafia, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Morris and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Harry Laufer, President       
 DALLAS-Rosanna Lucille, of Southampton, N.Y., on July 19, 1997. Predeceased by her husband Dr. John Ruskin Dallas and her son John R. Dallas. Survived by her son Robert Dallas and her sister Mary Levesque of Albuquerque, NM. There will be a Funeral Mass on Saturday, July 26, at 11:00 A.M., 
 FRANK-Mirtha. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins the Department of Medicine and its endoscopy unit in acknowledging with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Mirtha Frank, a valued employee in the unit for more than 25 years. To her children and grandc
 MALTZER-Lillian. Women of Reform Judaism, The Federation of Temple Sisterhoods is deeply saddened by the untimely passing in an automobile accident of our beloved and esteemed past President, Lillian Maltzer. Her devotion to Judaism, the advancement of women and development of leadership ha
 ROBINSON-Anne I. (McCaren), on July 18, 1997 at age of 94 in New Canaan, CT. Wife of late Guy N. Robinson, prominent N.Y. architect; mother of Lois R. Russell (Mrs. A. David) of Redding, CT., and Guy (George) N. Robinson of NYC. An early advocate of historic preservation, she led a campaign
 ROTH-Royce. In her 79th year. She received degrees from New College and Teacher's College, Columbia Univerity; studied at Cambridge University and did doctoral work in history at Columbia. During World War II was News Editor and Chief, Swiss-Scandinavian Desk of the Office of War Informatio
 SILBERT-Shirley Jane (nee Halper), of Pembroke Pines, Fla. and Ridge, NY, suddenly July 20, 1997 in her 76th year. Beloved wife of Mitchell. Loving mother of Alan, Joan, & Carol. Dear grandmother of Jennifer and Lauren Silbert, Eli & Adam Cook, and Joshua Streit. Private service at Mount Ar
 TALLEY-Madelon De Voe. The Executive Board and Publication Committee of CRISIS Magazine mourns the untimely death of our close friend and colleague. Her leadership, faith, and generosity will be sorely missed. Requiescat in Pace. George J. Marlin, Chair, Executive Board Deal W. Hudson, Publ
 RIPPS-Lillian Buchbinder. Today marks the 100th anniversary of her birth on July 24, 1897. She was a second generation member of a now six generations old, warm and close American Buchbinder family. Lillian and all of the descendants of her parents who are no longer with us are remembered a
 BERETZ-Emma. Beloved wife of the late Julius died on July 23, 1997 in her 89th year. Survived by loving sister Greta Beretz, sister inlaw Lena Bendorf, nieces, nephews, grand and great grand nieces and nephews.       
 BRUCKMAN - Tamar Chertok, wife of Arthur, formerly of Coatesville, PA, died July 22, Martins Run Community Center. Services were held yesterday. BRUCKMAN-Tamar. The partners and staff of the law firm of Finkelstein, Bruckman, Wohl Most & Rothman, LLP, mourn the death, on July 22, 19
 NISLEY-Ingeborg. Widow of Paul Nisley, passed away peacefully on July 22, 1997 at her home in Manhattan. She was an accomplished pianist and served as organist at the French Evangelical Church of New York for twenty-five years. Friends will be contacted about a private gathering. We mourn t
 REDIKER-Brenda. The National Realty Conference, formerly The National Realty Club, mourns the untimely passing of Brenda, a past President. Her warmth, intelligence and enthusiasm will be missed. Our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Thomas Graf, President Stephen Barkin, Member Chai
 ROTH-Royce. Trustees and Staff of the Public Education Association mourn the passing of Royce Roth, Trustee of more than thirty years. She served as Chair of several committees during her long and influential service to PEA. Her incisive approach and critical thinking added an important dim
 SANDLER-Diana, 92, July 15, in East Lansing, MI. She was a longtime resident of NYC, where she worked as a blouse designer. She was preceded in death by husband Philip and is mourned greatly by daughter, Ritta Rosenberg (Barnett), grandchildren Tina Rosenberg and Paul Rosenberg, and brother
 WEINER-Harry. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American friends extend to Mrs. Nina A. Weiner and her entire family its sincerest condolences on the loss of her beloved father-in-law. Among many, our University has been the beneficiary of generous and warm support from her and the fami
 WENDROFF-Belle. The Nedivah Group of Hadassah mourns the loss of our devoted and cherished member, Belle Wendroff. Our hearfelt sympathy to her family. May her memory be for a blessing. Miriam Marcus, President       
 ZOUKER-Tali.We offer our heart felt consolences to Lior and Nillie Zouker on the untimely and tragic passing of their beloved daughter Tali. May they be consoled by her loving memory. Management and staff ICTS-USA       
 ZUCKERMANN-Helen Jobin, July 24, 1997 in her 86th year. Sculptor and designer. Loving and beloved wife of the late Bernhard with whom she spent 40 years. Born in London, November 4, 1910, the third child of Artur and Helen Humbert Jobin. She is survived by her children Nicholas J. and Pamel
 BANCHIK-Barbara. July 24, 1997. Beloved wife, mother and sister. Services Sunday, July 27, Bennett Funeral Home, Scarsdale, New York at 10:30 AM. Her memory will live in our hearts forever. The Family       
 DOMINQUEZ-Diana M. Cendagorta. Teacher, J.S. Burke Catholic High School. Died Sloan-Kettering Hospital, New York, July 23, 1997. She was 45 years old. Graduated from Brooklyn college and attended Seville Univ., Seville, Spain and received her Master's Degree from Queens College. Survived by
 FRANK-Joan (Heming). On July 24. Beloved wife of the late John V. Frank. Loving mother of Daniel H. Frank and Katherine L. Frank. Devoted grandmother of Samuel, Jasper, Lucas, Ian and Cole. Dear sister of Harriet Simpson, Charles Heming and Delia Cantor. Family will receive visitors on Mond
 LEVIN-Regina V. On July 25, 1997. Beloved sister of Muriel Glass and the late Blanche Henry; loving sister-in-law of Dan and Walter Glass and the late Jonas and Milton Glass. She will be remembered by all who knew her for her many good deeds and generosity.       
 SAMUELS-Patrie W. Died July 23 in her 83rd year. Mother of Lynn S. Richardson and James P. Samuels. Memorial service to be held Sunday, July 27 at 12:30PM 353 Rowayton Ave, Rowayton, CT.       
 TANSMAN-Ruth. On July 12, 1997 in Miami Beach, FL. A resident of Teaneck New Jersey and Miami Beach, she graduated from Hunter College earlier this year. South Shore Hospital honored her with the Volunteer of the Year Award. Widow of Martin Tanzman, she is survived by her daughters Roberta 
 THALER-Rae (Josephson). On July 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Wonderful and loving mother of Susan Abramson. Devoted mother-in-law of Lewis Abramson. Adoring grandmother of Robin and Julie. Cherished sister of Hilda April. She is also survived by many nieces, nephews, family and
 WILLIAMS-Clare S. (nee McLaughlin), July 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Archie J. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Auricchio. Proud grandmother of Laura Auricchio. Also survived by her twin sister, Ruth Maher. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Avenue (at 20th Street) N
 Mary Jane Brown, a tap dancer who taught at the Juilliard School, died on July 12 at the Gilchrist Center for Hospice Care in Baltimore. She was 80 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Carol Hess-Vait. The daughter of a vaudeville house manager, M
 BANCHIK-Barbara. July 24, 1997. Beloved wife, mother and sister. Services Sunday, July 27, Bennett Funeral Home, Scarsdale, New York at 10:30 AM. Her memory will live in our hearts forever. The Family       
 BERGMAN-Carol. Died July 26th in her 71st year. Wife and dear friend of husband Rick. Mother of Nancy, Barbara and Jessica. Sister of Janet and Herbert. Her memory will live forever in our hearts. Services private. In lieu of flowers, please make contributions to Hospice of South Florida. W
 FRANK-Joan (Heming). On July 24, 1997. Beloved wife of the late John V. Frank. Loving mother of Daniel H. Frank and Katherine L. Frank. Mother-in-law of Patricia Lowy Frank and Jerome F. Page. Devoted grandmother of Samuel, Jasper, Lucas, Ian and Cole. Dear sister of Harriet Simpson, Charle
 FRANKLIN-Frances. Of Delray Beach, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on July 21, 1997. Cherished wife of Harold (Hal) Franklin, Beloved mother of Susan Lerner of Swampscott, MA. Ellen Klarfeld of Tempe, AZ, Bethann Franklin of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii, and Laura Franklin of New York. Adored and precious
 PERLMAN-Grace Kopit (nee Esther G. Kopit). Of Palm Beach, FL, died July 25, 1997. Born September 7, 1915, she was the devoted daughter of Jacob and Dora Kopit, cherished wife for 46 years of the late Joseph, loving mother of Sandy, Kenneth and Dr. Felice, doting grandmother of Lindsay, Jaco
 SAMUELS-Patrie W. Died July 23 in her 83rd year. Mother of Lynn S. Richardson and James P. Samuels. Memorial service to be held Sunday, July 27 at 12:30PM 353 Rowayton Ave, Rowayton, CT.       
 STEVENSON - Robin Broude, passed into the light, July 24, 1997 at 4:48 PM. Beloved wife of Bruce, sister of Susan, daughter of Bernard and Martha. Formerly a singer, she was a member of MWA and The National Arts Club. Her book Switchback, written with coauthor Tom Bade, is a time travel fan
 TANSMAN-Ruth. On July 12, 1997, in Miami Beach, FL. A resident of Teaneck, NJ, and Miami Beach, she graduated from Hunter College. Earlier this year, South Shore Hospital honored her with the Volunteer of the Year Award. Widow of Martin Tansman, she is survived by her daughters Roberta Tans
 THALER-Rae (Josephson). On July 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Wonderful and loving mother of Susan Abramson. Devoted mother-in-law of Lewis Abramson. Adoring grandmother of Robin and Julie. Cherished sister of Hilda April. She is also survived by many nieces, nephews, family and
 BLUME-ASCH-Mary K. In her eighty-seventh year. Devoted mother of James and Fredrick Blume, beloved wife for thirtythree years of Philip F. Blume, now deceased; then in her later years of the late John Asch. Caring mother-in-law of Kathryn W. Frank and Mary K. Blume; adoring grandmother of Z
 DOWNEY-Dorothy. A woman of great wit and warmth who loved people and politics, words and music, grammar and syntax, but above all, family and friends, died peacefully Friday at her home in North Salem, NY. She was eightynine. Born Dorothy Evelyn Paddock on May 17, 1908, she was the daughter
 FRANK-Joan (Heming). On July 24, 1997. Beloved wife of the late John V. Frank. Loving mother of Daniel H. Frank and Katherine L. Frank. Mother-in-law of Patricia Lowy Frank and Jerome F. Page. Devoted grandmother of Samuel, Jasper, Lucas, Ian and Cole. Dear sister of Harriet Simpson, Charle
 HUTTON-Virginia W., environmentalist and pioneer in the recycling movement, died Thursday, July 23, 1997 at her home in New Hope, PA. Wife of the late Lefferts Hutton. Former member of the Hartwood Club. She is survived by two daughters, a brother, a sister and two grandchildren. Services p
 PERLMAN-Grace Kopit (nee Esther G. Kopit). Of Palm Beach, FL, died July 25, 1997. Born September 7, 1915, she was the devoted daughter of Jacob and Dora Kopit, cherished wife for 46 years of the late Joseph, loving mother of Sandy, Kenneth and Dr. Felice, doting grandmother of Lindsay, Jaco
 SMITH-Helene Millar. On July 27, 1997, of Garden City, NY, in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William M. Millar and the late John C. Smith. Loving mother of David Somers Millar. Dear grandmother of Mark, Bruce and Justin Millar. Loving great-grandmother of Nora, Emma and Reed Mi
 STEVENSON - Robin Broude, passed into the light, July 24, 1997 at 4:48 PM. Beloved wife of Bruce, sister of Susan, daughter of Bernard and Martha. Formerly a singer, she was a member of MWA and The National Arts Club. Her book Switchback, written with coauthor Tom Bade, is a time travel fan
 UMPLEBY-Alice Darby Wilson. Age 79, of Shelter Island, NY. Died July 24, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Joan (Mrs. Guenther W. Salm) and Annie (Mrs. Thomas R. Wilcox, Jr.). Loving grandmother of Darby and Carrie Salm, and Matthew and Sam Wilcox, and great-grandmother of Hannu
 WEINBERG-Dora. In her 98th year, wife of the late Julius, died July 25. Beloved mother of Seymour, Robert and Murray Weinberg and Barbara Phillips. Grandmother of nine. Great-grandmother of six. Survived by brother Richard Gersten.       
 Joan Heming Frank, a television producer who worked on the original ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' drama series in the 1950's and 60's when the performances were broadcast live from a studio in Brooklyn, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 77. The ca
 DOWNEY-Dorothy. A woman of great wit and warmth who loved people and politics, words and music, grammar and syntax, but above all, family and friends, died peacefully Friday at her home in North Salem, NY. She was eightynine. Born Dorothy Evelyn Paddock on May 17, 1908, she was the daughter
 MOKOTOFF-Rhoda B. At age 85 on July 27, 1997 after a long illness. Survived by her husband of 62 years, Harold; children Steffi and Robert Berne, John (Moke) and Hue Mokotoff; grandchildren Elizabeth Berne, Alexander Berne and Sophia Mokotoff; brother Mickey Becher. Services will be private
 NOVAK-Esther. Wife, mother, friend, on July 27, 1997, at age 82. She died peacefully after a full and productive life. Her counsel, compassion and love will be sorely missed. She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Abraham, two children, Joel and Isabel, four grandchildren and one great
 ROTH-Royce Moch. July 23, 1997. She leaves husband of 53 years, Dr. Francis B. Roth; brothers, Irving and Gerald, and their immediate families; children, Nancy and Jim, and their spouces Tom and Barbara; and grandchildren Alex, Sarah, and Jessie.       
 SCHWARTZ-Ida. The Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, NY, sadly records the death of its longtime member and friend. Sincerest condolences to her husband Louis and the family. May God comfort and console them. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Stanley A. Shanies President       
 WEISSBERG-Ann. The East Hampton Tennis Club mourns the loss of our longtime active member. An avid tennis player, she was a great friend and will be missed. Our deepest sympathies go to Joe, Norbie, Judith and their families. Gil Bach, Pres., EHTC       
 ALT-Sasha Birnkrant. Beloved sister of Arthur, Jerry, and Milton, loving aunt. She celebrated life to the end. Services Friday 11:30 A.M. at I.J. Morris, 21 East Deer Park Rd, Dix Hills, L.I. For information call: 516-499-6060.       
 CLARKE-Dora, died on July 29 at her home in East Northport. Death came after a long illness. Born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, her love for the violin developed early and she worked to buy her first instrument by the time she was eight. From 1982 to 1992, Ms. Clarke was Director of Music for
 COHEN-Amelia H., on July 28 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Willi. Devoted sister of David M. Hausdorff. Loving aunt of many nieces and nephews. Contributions in her memory may be made to Amit Women.       
 COTTER-Esther J., of Westland, Michigan. Longtime resident of Tarrytown, N.Y. died in Waterville, Maine, July 27, one day after her 90th birthday. Predeceased by husband Fred J. Cotter. Survived by sons Fred C. Cotter and William R. Cotter, daughters-in-law Gai and Linda, 8 grandchildren an
 LISSNER-Louise A., (nee Auf der Heide), lifelong of West New York, New Jersey, on Monday, July 28, 1997, devoted mother of Carolyn L. Heveran, loving grandmother of Elizabeth McSwain, Henry George Ottley, and James Henry Ottley, cherished great-grandmother of 4. Daughter of the late Henry G
 LOCKETZ-Rebecca Lee, age 41. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the ACLU mourn the sudden death of a friend and colleague, Rebecca L. Locketz. She was a trailblazer in the field of workplace rights and genetic testing, and a dedicated community leader who was often described as ''a feminist
 MAYER-Katherine. Suddenly on July 29, age 85 in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck. Full partner in Evins Exterminating Co. Loving mother of Alice Stein and her husband Robert and Jackie Ferguson and her husband David. Grandmother of John and Tomoko, Jim, Jeffrey and David. Graveside se
 MICHELSON-Elizabeth Munch, 64, of Southbury, CT died July 28, 1997. She was born in Hartford, CT and was a well known decorative arts author & curator. She leaves her children, Leslie Michelson of Cambridge, MA; John and Colleen Michelson of Enfield, CT and Keith Michelson of North Tunbridg
 MOKOTOFF-Rhoda B. At age 85 on July 27, 1997 after a long illness. Survived by her husband of 62 years, Harold; children Steffi and Robert Berne, John (Moke) and Hue Mokotoff; grandchildren Elizabeth Berne, Alexander Berne and Sophia Mokotoff; brother Mickey Becher. Services will be private
 MORGAN-Muriel. A woman of great warmth, dignity and a keen intelligence, who possessed a passion for politics, golf, bridge, literature, the opera, good manners and great grandchildren. Born in 1910, she lived her very full life in Manhattan, Palm Beach and Westhampton, where she died peace
 SPIELBERG-Janet Joan Cappa. Died July 30, 1987. She is forever in our hearts. David, Alex, Tony, Betty Jean, Natalie, Miranda       
 Mattie Lou O'Kelley, who began painting as a hobby at the age of 60 and became a celebrated folk artist of rural Southern life, died on Saturday at her home in Decatur, Ga. She was 89. In her art, she pictured nostalgic views of the Georgia countryside she knew in her childhood in t
 ALT-Sasha Birnkrant. Beloved sister of Arthur, Jerry, and Milton, loving aunt. She celebrated life to the end. Services Friday 11:30 A.M. at I.J. Morris, 21 East Deer Park Road, Dix Hills, Long Island. For information call: 516-499-6060.       
 ANECKER-Carole. Of Bronxville and Riverdale, New York. Died after a long illness July 27. Born May 11, 1925 to Charles and Celia Hynes Anecker. She was a real estate broker for the architect and builder Henry Kibel. Survived by son Robert Louis Zervas, twin daughters Maureen Militana Scheub
 DOPPELT-Elizabeth J. (Beebe). Age 51, a woman of exceptional warmth, imagination and courage, died July 29, after a twenty-one year battle with breast cancer. Born Elizabeth Beebe in Brooklyn, New York, Liz excelled at Lincoln High School and at Brooklyn College, and maintained a working kn
 KNOWLES-Corinne ''Renee,'' widow of Kenneth E. Knowles Jr., passed away on July 29, 1997. She was 77 years of age. She is survived by her daughter, Nancy J. Knowles; son, Kenneth E. Knowles III, and two grandchildren, William and Eliza. A private memorial service will be held at Christ Chur
 LONDON-Lois. Beloved wife of the late Milton; devoted mother of Patricia and James Fingeroth and Hank London; cherished grandmother of Robert Fingeroth; loving sister of Irene and Maxwell Ingram, the late Jack Ferkin and Adolph Ferrin. She was loved and will be missed by all who knew her. S
 PINCUS-Clare G. Died peacefully at 95 on July 30 in her home in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Jonas Pincus. Devoted mother of Eleanor and Walter and mother-in-law of Louis Newman and Ann Pincus. Loving grandmother of Peter, Cathy, Barbara, Andrew, Ward, Adam and Battle, and great
