 DINDAS--Lillian (nee Gorin), of Longmeadow, MA, died Friday. She leaves two sons: Mark (Phyllis) Dindas of Longmeadow, MA and Alan (Ricky) Dindas of New Rochelle, NY, three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A graveside service will be Friday, 1:00pm at Old Montefiore Cemetery, Qu
 HECHT-Eleanor. The Board of Directors and staff of NY Psychotherapy and Counseling Center mourn the passing of Eleanor Hecht on November 30, 2006. Eleanor served for the past 15 years as a member of our Board of Directors. Her concerns for others and particularly the mentally ill was unpara
 MATTUS--Rose. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the loss of our beloved Board Member, Rose Mattus. Rose was an ardent Zionist who dearly loved Israel and the Jewish people. Our sincere sympathy to daughters Doris and Natalie and their families. Morton Klein, President Michael Goldb
 PROPPER--Karen S., The Board of Directors and staff of Amsterdam Nursing Home mourn the loss of our valued Administrator, Karen S. Propper, who died on November 29, 2006 after a long battle against cancer. Mrs. Propper devoted her life's work to the improvement of the welfare and quality of
 RUSSELL--Esther, Forbes. 87, died peacefully on November 29 at her home in Quogue, NY, after a brief illness. Devoted mother to her son, Hollis and his wife, Alice, and adoring grandmother to her three grandchildren, Alex, Hamish and Charlotte. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made 
 WEBER--Joann. We deeply mourn the passing of our cousin and dear friend, Joann Weber, who lost her valiant struggle with cancer. Her smile, warmth and generosity of spirit will be sorely missed. We send our love and heartfelt condolences to Drew, Kate, Michael, Bernice, Jane and Jay. Lynne 
 YEAGER--Barbara, of Bronxville, NY, died on November 29th, after a long battle with cancer. She is survived by her husband, George, a son Scott of Rye, NY, a daughter Kerry Yeager Stevens of Darien, CT, her brother Robert Gow of Houston, Texas and seven grandchildren. A celebration of her l
 ZALLMAN--Arlene, Composer, (Philadelphia, September 9, 1934) died at home early Saturday after a long struggle with breast cancer. She is survived by her daughters Minna and Martha Proctor, and grandsons Silas Pilapil and Issac Zallman Anastas. She was a passionate mother and grandmother, a
 GELENIAN-WOOD--Teresa November 19th, age 51, of Montclair, NJ, internationally recognized artist, and contemporary metalsmith. For the last year, Terri has been fighting a battle with malignant peritoneal mesothelioma--a rare cancer caused by exposure to asbestos. Terri was born June 10, 19
 Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J. The death was confirmed by Brian McNamara of Gutterman &
 CHALLOP--Miriam (nee Schreiber), November 30, 2006, age 89. Predeceased by husband, Irving, and daughter, Gail Backer. Beloved mother of Dr. Roger Challop, wife Louise, Dr. Judith Luhr, husband Dr. William, and Glenn Backer. Devoted grandmother to Lissa, Glenn, Rebecca, Amanda, Paul, and Da
 RUSSELL--Esther Forbes, 87, died peacefully on November 29 at her home in Quogue, NY, after a brief illness. Devoted mother to her son, Hollis and his wife, Alice, and adoring grandmother to her three grandchildren, Alex, Hamish and Charlotte. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made t
 SALTZMAN--Natasha died Thursday November 30, 2006 in her Eastham Cape Cod home. A woman of unstinting generosity, Natasha was deeply loved by her sister, Judith Litvich, her children, Nelle and Dan Miller and Rebecca and Joel Miller and adored by her three extraordinary grandchildren, Henry
 SCHWARTZ--Nanette,70, on December 1st, 2006. Loving mother of Rori Shaffer (Steven) and Karen Hart (Dean Willis), loving grandmother of Robert, Julia, Daniel, and Jenny. Family will receive friends Saturday December 2nd, 2-7pm at 91 Central Park West Apartment 9C. In lieu of flowers donatio
 WEBER--Joann. We deeply mourn the passing of our cousin and dear friend, Joann Weber, who lost her valiant struggle with cancer. Her smile, warmth and generosity of spirit will be sorely missed. We send our love and heartfelt condolences to Drew, Kate, Michael, Bernice, Jane and Jay. Lynne 
 COE--Margaret Shaw ''Peg''. Planting Fields Foundation deeply regrets the loss of Peg Coe, 88, who died at her home in Cody, WY on November 15, 2006. A great supporter of Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park in Oyster Bay, NY, the former country estate of her in-laws, she worked to
 HANDLEY--Margaret, be loved wife of Walter, loving mother of Joan, and grandmother of Michael and Daniel. Born September 16th, 1913, in Vienna, Gretl died November 22nd. Elegant and witty, she will be missed.       
 LEICHER--Renee born Ursel Renate Gross, April 22, 1929 November 19, 2006. Beloved daughter, sister, wife, mother, grandmother and friend; cherished by her late husband, Sheldon; lovingly remembered by her children Juliette, David and Audrey; her grandson Ezra; her stepfamily, Susan, Tony, N
 METZGER--Angela (Serpe). At rest on November 29th, 2006 in Summit, NJ. Angela was a mother, homemaker, published writer, avid reader, active churchwoman and volunteer. She was born in 1938 in Chicago. She valued most the love that is nurtured in families and grounded in faith. Her husband o
 SALTZMAN--Natasha died Thursday November 30, 2006 in her Eastham Cape Cod home. A woman of unstinting generosity, Natasha was deeply loved by her sister, Judith Litvich, her children, Nelle and Dan Miller and Rebecca and Joel Miller and adored by her three extraordinary grandchildren, Henry
 WIEN--Ruth (Kupper), Passed away November 26, 2006. Ruth was the widow of the late Lawrence A. Wien, a prominent New York Attorney. She is survived by Mr. Wien's daughters Isabel and Peter Malkin and their beloved children and grandchildren, Enid (Dinny) and Lester Morse and their beloved c
 YEAGER--Barbara G. The HealthCare Chaplaincy mourns the death of its beloved chaplain, Barbara G. Yeager and expresses its condolences to her family. Lawrence J. Toal, Chairman of the Board The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., P resident & CEO $(6$)YEAGER--Barbara. The Governors and staff of
 SILVERMAN--Wendy Sue Hewitt. Extraordinary human being. Sisters by choice. Beautiful within and without. We were blessed with her presence and will forever miss her love, goodness, and intelligence. She left an indelible mark on all of us. We love you. -Nancy and Family       
 WEBER--Joann/. We deeply mourn the passing of our cousin and dear friend, Joann Weber, who lost her valiant struggle with cancer. Her smile, warmth and generosity of spirit will be sorely missed. We send our love and heartfelt condolences to Drew, Kate, Michael, Bernice, Jane and Jay. Lynne
 Dr. Jeanne A. Smith, a former top administrator at Harlem Hospital Center and an expert on sickle cell anemia who helped establish broader federal guidelines for testing newborns for the disease, died on Nov. 11 in Lewisboro, N.Y. She was 75. The cause was complications of a stroke,
 COHN--Emmy-Lou on December 3, 2006. Beloved wife of the late David. Adored and cherished mother of Suzy and her husband David Simon and the late Cecile Cohn. Loving grandmother of Deb Wasser and her partner Susan Vaughan, David Wasser, Deirdre and her husband Alex Silberman, Keira and her h
 GRANT--Jane, Moir (nee Scott), age 50, on December 1st, 2006 of Wayne, PA. Survived by her husband Gregor J. Grant, her three children Bryce, Rowan and Wallis; also survived by her mother Irene Scott, her sisters Julie and Lesley and by her brother Gordon. Memorial Service will be Thursday 
 MOORE--Amy (nee Friedman) BMP Family Circle deeply mourns the untimely loss of our much loved member, Amy Moore. Beloved mother of Michael and Ryan, cherished daughter of Marcy and the late Sam, loving sister of Andrew, sister-inlaw of Dorothy and aunt of Katie and Jenny. Heartfelt condolen
 CHIAVETTA--Joy Dorothy, 50. Died peacefully December 2, after a brave struggle against breast cancer. She died the way she lived: surrounded by family and friends, and with love and dignity. Joy was born and raised in Chelsea and spent her summers at her family home on Martha's Vineyard. Fo
 COHN--Emmy-Lou on December 3, 2006. Beloved wife of the late David. Adored and cherished mother of Suzy and her husband David Simon and the late Cecile Cohn. Loving grandmother of Deb Wasser and her partner Susan Vaughan, David Wasser, Deirdre and her husband Alex Silberman, Keira and her h
 ELLIOTT--Eleanor ''Elly'' T. We are deeply saddened by the tragic death of our dear friend, Eleanor ''Elly'' Elliott, Life Trustee of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Life Overseer of Weill Cornell Medical College. An enthusiastic and dedicated supporter of our Medical Center for more than
 SLATKIN--Doris. Beloved aunt. A true lady, exceptionally beautiful both outside and within. Loved by all who knew her. She exuded warmth, love and wisdom. It was a privilege to love her and to have been loved by her. She was an example of true goodness. We will miss you terribly and hold yo
 Eleanor Thomas Elliott, an advocate for women's rights who successfully fought Columbia University's attempt to take over Barnard College in the early 1970s, died Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 80 and lived in Cross River, N.Y. The cause was injuries from a car accident, said her 
 ELLIOTT--Eleanor ''Elly'' T. The members of the Women's Health Symposium Executive Steering Committee at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center mourn the passing of Eleanor Elliott, co-founder of the Women's Health Symposium. Elly was a committed advocate for women's he
 GOTTLIEB--Inez Bellow, 89, former Director of Public Affairs Programming at Philadelphia's CBS - owned WCAU-TV, Saturday 2 December in NYC. Her program ''Now Is The Time'' with Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee on black Civil Rights won a 1967-68 Emmy. Surviving are two sisters, Olive McGarrity and 
 GREENBERG--Janice, December 3, age 90, formerly of Woodmere, NY; late of Palm Beach, FL. Our incomparable Oma. She loved life; she loved us; we loved her. Peter and Elke Greenberg; Peggy and Stan Chodorow; Andrew Greenberg and Ruth Walter; Adam Chodorow and Rebel Rice; Eric and Anne Chodoro
 LEVY--Elinor A., died on December 4th. A resident of Boca Raton, FL, she is survived by her sons, Paul and James, and her daughter-inlaw, Linda; another daughterin - law, Rebecca, prede ceased her. She leaves five grandchildren, seven greatgrandchildren. Her husband, Charles Levy, died in 1
 ROSENHAUPT--Maureen, died December 1st in Santa Fe. Hans Rosenhaupt's widow, she is survived by Elise, Tom, Kate and Patrick Noble.       
 ELLIOTT--Eleanor T. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend Elly Elliott, wife of long time Trustee, Jock Elliott. Elly graced us with her charm and presence at hundreds of events for over 30 years. She was a m
 Rosie Lee Tompkins, a renowned African-American quiltmaker whose use of dazzling color and vivid geometric forms made her work internationally acclaimed despite her vehement efforts to remain completely unknown, was found dead on Friday at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 70. Th
 CAPALDO--Susan, P. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of its long-time Trustee. A woman of indomitable spirit, she gave tirelessly of herself to this congregation and to the community at large. Services today at 1:00 pm at United Hebrew, 201 East Broadway, NYC.       
 ELLIOTT--Eleanor. The Program in Women's Studies at Duke University and the Council on Women's Studies mourn the passing of Eleanor Thomas Elliott, a great friend and a committed advocate for women and women's education. We will remember her support and cherish her example of a life well li
 FERRER--Millie M, 93, died peacefully following a short illness at Mercy Hospital in Miami, Florida on October 14, 2006. Her loss is mourned and her memory cherished by those who knew and loved her, especially her devoted loyal friend of 54 years, Joaquina Hernandez, and her 13 nieces and n
 HOOKER--Marion Butler died on December 4, 2006 surrounded by her family at New York Hospital. Beloved wife of the late Edward Gordon Hooker. Loving mother of Peggy Hooker Mejia of New York City and Suzanne Hooker Ainslie of Palm Beach and adoring grandmother of Alexander Hooker Mejia, Alber
 LURIE--Linda. Linda died suddenly at home on December 4th. She is survived by her brother Steven, of Tucson Arizona, and her long time friend Alfred J. Talley. Beloved daughter of the late William and Dorothy Lurie of Hewlett New York. Service at Frank E. Campbell. 81st and Madison. Friday 
 MISCHEL--Tessie. 90 years old of Fort Lee, NJ died December 6. Married to the late Samuel Mischel, she is survived by her sister Diana Ross and daughter Leslie Ettinger, wife of Bernard Ettinger, also son of Sanford Mischel, husband of Diane Mischel and their children Lisa Gross and Ken Gro
 TRIGG--Penny F., 64, passed away December 6, after a courageous battle against Ovarian cancer. Her loved ones were by her side. She is survived by her devoted daughters Tiffany and Tara, her partner Bob Wershals, her brother David Posner, and an infinite number of friends. She will be etern
 WINETSKY--Jeanette G. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jeanette Winetsky, beloved mother of Susan Feinstein, who along with her husband, Leonard, set a shining example of philanthropic leadership and commitment. Through the Susan
 Esther Lederberg, a microbiologist who identified a stealthy virus that invades bacteria and hides within its DNA, often emerging later to do its destructive work, died Nov. 11 in Stanford, Calif. She was 83. The cause was complications of congestive heart failure and pneumonia, her
 ARNOLD--Ruth Rabinoff Born April 6, 1918, died December 3, 2006, from complications from pneumonia. Head of the Reference Library at Jersey City State Teachers College for 24 years. Widow of the artist Dean Arnold, mother of Susan Ariel and Jennifer Robin. She was predeceased by another dau
 BERGER--Jean (Jennie). On December 6, 2006 in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Berger. Devoted mother of Gail Rothstein and Andrew Berger (Brook). Cherished grandmother of Scott (Caroline), Elizabeth (Gary), Peter (Lori), Adam (Stephen Frank) and Douglas and great-grandmother o
 ELLIOTT--Eleanor Thomas (Mrs. John ''Jock,'' Jr.). We are deeply saddened by the death of Elly Elliott on Sunday, December 3rd. She was the wonderful wife and life partner of our Chairman Emeritus Jock Elliott, who passed away last year. Many New Yorkers know that Elly was active in many so
 FELLER--Sheila. Beloved mother of Marcy and Andrea, adored and adoring grandmother of Julian and Gabriel, cherished mother-inlaw of Gabrielle and David, died December 6th, 2006, after a brief illness. Writer and community activist, former child actress, she embraced life, and all those she 
 HOOKER--Marion Butler died on December 4, 2006 surrounded by her family at New York Hospital. Beloved wife of the late Edward Gordon Hooker. Loving mother of Peggy Hooker Mejia of New York City and Suzanne Hooker Ainslie of Palm Beach and adoring grandmother of Alexander Hooker Mejia, Alber
 TRIGG--Penny F., 64, passed away December 6, after a courageous battle against Ovarian cancer. Her loved ones were by her side. She is survived by her devoted daughters Tiffany and Tara, her partner Bob Wershals, her brother David Posner, and an infinite number of friends. She will be etern
 Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the Reagan administration's first United Nations ambassador and a beacon of neoconservative thought who helped guide American military, diplomatic and covert action from 1981 to 1985, died Thursday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 80. Her death was announce
 STASY--Oksana (Stasyzyn). Screen Actors Guild actress and dancer, born Gemini 1945 died December 4th, 2006 in her sleep. She is survived by her mother and beloved friends, she was the last girlfriend of actor Peter Lawford. Humanitarian, helped the homeless and downtrodden. Unrelenting love
 KIRKPATRICK--Jeane J. The Council on Foreign Relations mourns the passing of Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, whose combination of scholarship and courage has left a continuing legacy of fidelity to the highest ideals of national service. A dedicated member of the Council for more than 25 years, Ambas
 ARNOLD--Ruth Rabinoff Born April 6, 1918, died December 3, 2006, from complications from pneumonia. Head of the Reference Library at Jersey City State Teachers College for 24 years. Widow of the artist Dean Arnold, mother of Susan Ariel and Jennifer Robin. She was predeceased by another dau
 DENSON--Constance ''Huschi'' died at home December 5, 2006, at age 83. Born Countess Constance von Franken Sierstorpff in 1923 in Zyrowa, Germany, she married Count Hyazinth Stachwitz in 1943, and divorced in 1945. In 1949 she married William D. Denson following his military service as a US
 ELLENBOGEN--May (nee Kaplan), 89, on December 6, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Abraham, devoted mother of Irene and Ira, Sima and Zane, Joe and Ellen, doting grandmother of Nathan, Hallie and Kobe. Poet, story teller, weaver of images, true friend who lived life to the fullest. Shining sta
 KNOX--Nancy Dunbar (nee Corbusier) of Santa Fe, NM died on November 28, 2006 in Santa Fe. Born December 3, 1913, she was the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Harold D. Corbusier of Santa Fe and Plainfield, NJ. Wife of the late Gordon Knox, Mrs. Knox resided in Princeton, NJ for 40 years. Burial wil
 PAIGE--Rose (Podell), in her 93rd year, on December 7th, 2006. Her beloved husband, Earl A. Podell, predeceased her in 1969. Loving mother of Michael Podell, Susann Hyman and Maki-Beth Podell Herr and mother-in-law of Pat King Podell, Allan Hyman and H. Buff Herr. She is survived by her ado
 WINNIG--Marion, we mourn the loss of our member and beloved mother of our Rabbi Paula Winnig, adored grandmother of Karmi and Shai. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi. Carole Neely, Steven Blaustein, Co-Presidents       
 KIRKPATRICK--Jeane J. A distinguished alumna of Barnard College, who among her many accomplishments was herself a scholar and a dedicated teacher, died on Thursday at age 80. We celebrate the significant achievements of Jeane Kirkpatrick whose ability to rise to a position of influence in w
 COGEN--Randi. Beloved wife of Jack. Devoted mother of Sarah and Beth. Daughter of Eleanor and the late William Mellman. Sister of Marc and Evan. Randi died much too young from cancer. Her life was devoted to her family and her community. She lived a full and happy life. At the end she said 
 GOLDMAN--Helen. Born November 2, 1913, dies December 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Hans, devoted mother to Hank (Joan), proud grandmother of David and Jennifer (Jeff Wetzler) and adoring great-grandmother of Jacob. Her unique history took her from Czechoslovakia to Vienna to Sosua, Dom
 KIMMEL--Paula N., on December 8, 2006, beloved wife of Bert. Mother of Janine Bronen and Melissa Saperstein. Mother-in-law of Andrew Bronen and Robert Saperstein. Loving Nana of Mariel, Matthew, Charlie, Joe and Leah. Her humor will always be remembered. Service Monday, December 11, 12:45 p
 WATERS--Lois M. Died peacefully at home on Thursday, December 7, 2006. Mrs. Waters was born in Jefferson, Texas on December 5, 1907 to Dr. J.A.R. and Ada Moseley. She attended the Ward-Belmont School in Nashville, Tennessee and then later graduated from Southern Methodist University in Dall
 GAGNEBIN--Genevieve Hope, 95, of Little Silver, NJ and Juno Beach, FL, December 6th in Jupiter, FL. Predeceased by her husband, Albert P. Gagnebin. Survived by her daughters, Anne Coffin (Mrs. John D.) and Joan Wicks (Mrs. David O.), four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A memor
 Georgia Gibbs, a brassy-voiced pop singer who topped the charts in the 1950s with ''Kiss of Fire'' and other hits, died on Saturday in Manhattan, where she had lived for many years. She was 87. The cause was pneumonia, said Leslie Gottlieb, a publicist and family friend. She said Ms
 BLACKER--Claire (nee Weiskopf) age 94, December 10, 2006. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Samuel. She is survived by Heather and Martin Abbe and Herbert and Sheila Blacker. Grandmother to David, Melissa, Judianne, Tracey, Jonathan and Monica. Claire was a vibrant, loving and devoted wif
 BURKE--Sarah Cooke Burke, wife of Gilman Burke, mother of Molly, Dana, and Nathaniel; grandmother of Rosa and Bruno Valan, James, Marina, and Raymond Burke; and step-grandmother of Cameron Saloka, died peacefully at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in the early evening of December 9, 2006. He
 DENSON--Constance ''Huschi'' died at home December 5, 2006, at age 83. Born Countess Constance von Franken Sierstorpff in 1923 in Zyrowa, Germany, she married Count Hyazinth Stachwitz in 1943, and divorced in 1945. In 1949 she married William D. Denson following his military service as a US
 HOLSTEIN--Cathy Fox, 54, died peacefully at home in Ossining, NY on December 10th, after an eight month fight with lung cancer. Cathy was known internationally in the publishing field for her keen negotiating skills and ability to bring American authors to audiences around the world. Her 26
 LANDY--Sister Mary. Sister Mary Landy, beloved member of Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Sunday, December 10th, 2006. She is survived by her two brothers, John and Rev. Father Joseph Landy, S. J. and nuMerous nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by her brother James, 
 GOLDENSHER--Mildred, of Long Island City, New York at home on Decemeber 7. Born to immigrant parents, daughter of a kosher butcher, graduate of City College. Commuted by bicycle to teach for decades at Bryant High School in Queens. Head of Mini-School at Bryant and champion of public educat
 WILLIAMS--Priscilla (nee deForest) on December 11th, 2006 after a long struggle with lymphoma. She leaves behind her husband of 65 years, Douglas Williams. They lived in ''Wawapek,'' their estate in Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, NY and in Maine, during the summer months and wintered in N
 Martha Tilton, who as one of Benny Goodman's vocalists in the 1930s was billed as the ''Sweetheart of Swing'' and appeared on 80 of his recordings, including the celebrated 1939 rendition of ''And the Angels Sing,'' died on Dec. 8 at her home in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Brentwood. Sh
 ALISBERG--Helene. December 11, 2006 in Avon, CT. She was an advocate for the education of young children. She is survived by her daughter Nancy of West Hartford, CT, her son Andrew of Greenwich, CT and four grandchildren. The funeral will be Wednesday, December 13 at 11:00 at Weinstein Mort
 BALDING--Polly Potter, 99, Pioneer Sportswoman. Polly Potter Balding died peacefully at her home in Camden, S.C. on December 6th, 2006, just three days after her 99th birthday. Mrs. Balding was a pioneer sportswoman, a competitive golfer and bridge player and a crack shot well into her 90's
 BARTH--Charlotte. Charlotte was a dear friend and a woman of great sweetness, warmth and generosity. We will treasure her memory, and offer our deepest sympathy to her three children, Nancy, Susan and Lawrence. David and Noreen Warren $(6$)BARTH--Charlotte. The partners and employee
 BURKE--Sarah Cooke Burke, wife of Gilman Burke, mother of Molly, Dana, and Nathaniel; grandmother of Rosa and Bruno Valan, James, Marina, and Raymond Burke; and step-grandmother of Cameron Saloka, died peacefully at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in the early evening of December 9, 2006. He
 COGEN--Randi. We mourn the untimely loss of Randi Cogen, former President of The Gateway School Parent Association and Trustee exofficio. Our heart felt condolences to her family. As she wished, we honor her memory, ''a nice person with a sense of humor.'' Robert Cunningham Head of School T
 GROBMAN--Hulda. Professor Emeritus of Education at St. Louis University Medical Center on December 10th, 2006 in Gainesville, FL. Dr. Grobman was a Professor of Education at New York University and Brooklyn College, a staff consultant for the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study, on the boa
 HARMATZ--Mildred. In her 93rd year, beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Fred, Linda, Robert and Nanette. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Emily, Debra, Sheryl, Andrew, and Melanie. Adored great-grandmother of Ethan, Samara, and Logan. A proud and eloquent woman who was much 
 POLACHEK--Doris June, age 83, died in her Manhattan apartment on December 4, 2006. A graduate of Cornell University, Doris spent her professional career in the financial services industry and was a retired Vice-President of Merrill Lynch. She is survived by her sister and brother-in-law, El
 SOLOMON--Barbara (nee Eisenstadt) on December 9th, 2006. Beloved mother of David (Dana) and Michael Solomon, devoted daughter of the late Natalie and Harold Eisenstadt, and cherished sister of the late Gail Eisenstadt. L'chaim, Mom. A service will be held on Thursday, December 14th, 2006, 5
 WILLIAMS--Priscilla (nee deForest) on December 11th, 2006 after a long struggle with lymphoma. She leaves behind her husband of 65 years, Douglas Williams. They lived in ''Wawapek,'' their estate in Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, NY and in Maine, during the summer months and wintered in N
 BRICKMAN--Seymour, Rabbi, The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Sharon Haberman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 FAILLACE--Carolyn Louise of New Lebanon, NY passed on Friday, December 10, 2006 at the age of 53. She was a graduate of Pratt University in Fashion Design and studied Millinery at FIT in NYC, and created the First American Crafts Gallery in Soho in the 1970's. She belonged to the National H
 HANDLEMAN--Sally. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of American Friends of Magen David Adom, ARMDI mourn the passing of Sally Handleman, widow of Joseph Handleman, who died on December 8, 2006, she was 101 years of age. She and her husband, Joseph, who predeceased her, were the prim
 LINAKIS--Yorka C., Hon. Retired New York State Supreme Court Justice Yorka C. Linakis died peacefully in her home on Tuesday, December 12th, 2006, of congestive heart failure. She was 89 years old. Born to immigrant Greek parents, Dimitri and Angeliki Condeles, in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, o
 McFARLAND--Emily Frelinghuysen Bilkey, in Twin Falls, Idaho on December 1, 2006 at the age of 96. Survived by her daughter Laura Bilkey Barclay of Devon, England, and predeceased by her son H. Edward Bilkey. Born in New York City, brought up in Somerville, New Jersey, the daughter of Senato
 ROBBINS--Sara, Professor. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the loss of Professor Sara Robbins, Director of the Law Library. Over the past two decades, thousands of students, staff and faculty members have benefited from her thoughtful stewardship of the library, her professionalism,
 SOLOMON--Barbara (nee Eisenstadt) on December 9th, 2006. Beloved mother of David (Dana) and Michael Solomon, devoted daughter of the late Natalie and Harold Eisenstadt, and cherished sister of the late Gail Eisenstadt. L'chaim, Mom. A service will be held on Thursday, December 14th, 2006, 5
 WERTHEIMER--Jane Celler, age 89, of New Rochelle, NY on December 12. Beloved wife of the late Sydney Wertheimer, loving mother of Sue Serphos, Harrison, NY and Jill Rifkin, Delmar, NY. Also survived by sons-in-law James Serphos and Richard Rifkin, grandchildren Jennifer and Melissa Rifkin a
 ANDERSON--Elizabeth Lawrence. Elizabeth Lawrence Anderson, of Kendal, Kennett Square, PA., died on November 13, 2006 at Kendal. Born May 13, 1905 in New York City, she was the daughter of Lawrence and Elizabeth (Wright Walter) Gilman. Mr. Gilman was the music critic for the New York Herald 
 GIBBS - GERVASI--Georgia. Her Nibs Miss Georgia Gibbs, December 9th, after a long and valiant battle with leukemia. Her beautiful voice and distinctive style will long be remembered. Memorial services, Tuesday, December 19th, 7 pm at ''The Riverside'', 76 th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SMITH--Miriam, born April 6th, 1928 and deceased December 11, 2006. Beloved mother, grandmother and aunt. Funeral services will be held at John H. Joyce Funeral Home, 2332 Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Blvd., NY, NY at Noon. Loved and cherished by all who knew her, she will be dearly missed.     
 ANDERSON--Elizabeth Lawrence. Elizabeth Lawrence Anderson, of Kendal, Kennett Square, PA., died on November 13, 2006 at Kendal. Born May 13, 1905 in New York City, she was the daughter of Lawrence and Elizabeth (Wright Walter) Gilman. Mr. Gilman was the music critic for the New York Herald 
 SCHLESINGER--Pauline. Beloved wife of the late Sam, loving mother of Dan and Frank, mother-in-law of Dina. Graveside services, Friday 10am at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. The family prefers memorials donations in her memory to Community Living Corp. 105 South Bedford Rd., Mt. Kisc
 CHASE--Marion (Micki) died December 15th, 2006 at her home in Plymouth, MA after a long illness. She will truly be missed and forever remembered by her family and friends.       
 HAFT--Clara Halpern, passed away on December 14, 2006 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of 42 years to the late Alex C. Haft, devoted mother to Gail Haft and Herbert (Marilyn) Haft, caring grandmother to Emily (Donald) Bloom, William (Lisa) Haft, and greatgrandmother to Charlie and Tim Bloom, 
 STODDARD--Carole L. died on December 13, 2006. Born August 18, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY. Graduate of Cornell University. Retired copyright editor for Dell Publishing. Continued on as volunteer school librarian and tutor. She is survived by daughter Judith, son-in-law Johnnial, stepson Mark, gra
 BARNES--Winifred (Winnie) Davenport. A fiercely independent, selfdescribed perpetual student, died unexpectedly on November 30th from complications of brain cancer and stroke at age 88. Born in Newberry, South Carolina and raised in Norristown, Pennsylvania, Winnie arrived in New York City 
 BERMAN--Judith. The Sixteenth Street Synagogue regrets to announce the passing of a long time member, Judith Berman, noted for her generosity to family and friends. We extend to them our heartfelt condolences.       
 CHRIST--Iris Vanderbilt, died on December 8, 2006. A fifth generation descendant of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt, Mrs. Christ was survived by her mother, Consuelo Vanderbilt Earl, her sister, Virginia S. Burke, her brother Earl E.T. Smith, Jr., her son Peter Van Ingen, her daughters, Sere
 EPSTEIN--Barbara Lee. A true sweetheart. She brought joy to all who knew her. We will miss you. Joan Hillman $(6$)EPSTEIN--Barbara Lee, on December 15th, 2006 after a courageous battle left us peacefully. Beloved daughter of Marilyn and Arnold, devoted brother of Jeffrey and Larry, loving s
 ERDA--Lollo. Peacefully at home on December 14, 2006, 12 days short of her 93rd birthday. Widow of the late Rudolph Erda, she is survived by her daughter Susan, sister Anne Sichel, and many wellloved nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and cousins.       
 FENDERSON--Diane Newton December 7, 2006. Graduated Meredith College, NC. Career executive, business owner, gifted artist. Diane loved to travel and most enjoyed time spent living in Italy. Her wit, talent, intelligence and integrity inspired us. Her laughter and compassion comforted us. Be
 GLAZER--Zelda, Wife, mother, teacher. Zelda Glazer was beautiful, poetic, funny. She loved her family, her friends, her world. She loved books and music, liberal politics and the view of Biscayne Bay from her balcony. Zelda loved to sing around her kitchen. She was fair and good and had a w
 GOODMAN--Estelle. We mourn the loss of Estelle Goodman who passed on December 14, 2006. Wife of Milt Goodman (deceased). Leaves behind her loving sister Marion, loving daughter Helen and son Robert.       
 GOTTFRIED--Ruth. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her family. May her memory be for blessing and may her loved ones be comforted amidst the mourners of our people for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Jonatha
 HAFT--Clara Halpern, passed away on December 14, 2006 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of 42 years to the late Alex C. Haft, devoted mother to Gail Haft and Herbert (Marilyn) Haft, caring grandmother to Emily (Donald) Bloom, William (Lisa) Haft, and greatgrandmother to Charlie and Tim Bloom, 
 KRUSEN--Elizabeth Hoopes, a resident of Vicar's Landing, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL and Manchester Center, VT died November 22, 2006 at the age of 98. She had also resided in Summit, NJ, and Shelter Island, NY and was a long time resident of Lost Tree Village in North Palm Beach, FL. Her husband
 PAUL--Rose Markoff. December 14, age 92. Devoted wife of the late Samuel D. Paul; loving mother of Gerald (Sherri) and Kenneth (Sevara); proud grandmother of Sandy (Leslie), Amy (Jonathan) and Kathryn, and greatgrandmother of Emma. She loved her family, teaching and learning. Service at 12:
 ROSENTHAL--Nancy, of Great Neck died December 3rd, 2006 at Calvary Hospital after a three year bout with colon cancer. She was 62 and a retired English teacher in NYC Jr. High Schools. Born in Brooklyn and a graduate of Erasmus Hall HS., Brooklyn College (Phi Beta Kappa) and Boston Universi
 STODDARD--Carole L. died on December 13, 2006. Born August 18, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY. Graduate of Cornell University. Retired copyright editor for Dell Publishing. Continued on as volunteer school librarian and tutor. She is survived by daughter Judith, son-in-law Johnnial, stepson Mark, gra
 COOPERMAN--Beatrice Lazow, 88, of Deerfield Beach, FL. Passed away December 6th, 2006. She is survived by: beloved husband Harvey; loving children Carol Halper (Steve), Dr. Elliot Cooperman (Robyn); grandchildren Lisa, Rick (Jennifer), Rachel, Hannah, Rebecca, Chris, Danielle; great-grandch
 Ruth Webb, a successful Hollywood agent who was a master of the art of professional rehabilitation, reviving dormant careers and representing clients few other agencies would touch, died on Dec. 4 in Los Angeles. She was 88. The cause was a long pulmonary illness, said Sherri Spilla
 EPSTEIN--Barbara Lee. A true sweetheart. An amazing spirit. She brought joy to all who knew her. We miss you. Joan, Ivan, and Jared Hillman       
 COOPERMAN--Beatrice Lazow, 88, of Deerfield Beach, FL. Passed away December 6th, 2006. She is survived by: beloved husband Harvey; loving children Carol Halper (Steve), Dr. Elliot Cooperman (Robyn); grandchildren Lisa, Rick (Jennifer), Rachel, Hannah, Rebecca, Chris, Danielle; great-grandch
 ENOCH--Margaret M. Died at home on December 16th, 2006. Daughter of Albert Jacob Heinemann and Barbara Berberich of Hamburg, Germany; widow of Kurt Enoch. Survived by two stepdaughters, Ruth Gruenthal and Mirjam Stevens. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to Visit
 FISHMAN--Claire Powsner. Died December 17, 2006 at age 79. Beloved wife of Fred N. Fishman, mother of Robert and Nancy, grandmother of Evan and Tyler. She was a loving and courageous woman, a caring friend and a devoted teacher. Services Thursday December 21 at 11:30am at ''The Riverside'',
 KAPLAN--Barbara. On December 18 at the age of 83 in Atlanta, Georgia after spending most of her life in New York. Beloved wife for 63 years of Martin. Extraordinarily devoted mother and mother-in-law of Gail Westheimer, Elaine and Edward Schlissel, Deborah and Mark Attanasio, and Wendy Kapl
 SOLOMON--Jeanette. Selfhelp Community Services deeply mourns the passing of Jeanette Solomon, a wonderful friend whose philanthropy touched the lives of the elderly men and women in our care. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Victor A. Wyler, President Stuart C. Kaplan, CEO $
 ENOCH--Margaret M. Died at home on December 16th, 2006. Daughter of Albert Jacob Heinemann and Barbara Berberich of Hamburg, Germany; widow of Kurt Enoch. Survived by two stepdaughters, Ruth Gruenthal and Mirjam Stevens. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to Visit
 FISHMAN--Claire Powsner. Died December 17, 2006 at age 79. Beloved wife of Fred N. Fishman, mother of Robert (Stacey) and Nancy (Nina Haft), grandmother of Evan and Tyler. She was a loving and courageous woman, a caring friend and a devoted teacher. Services Thursday December 21 at 11:30am 
 ROUGET--Lorraine M., 97, born in Brooklyn, NY to Edmund and Estelle Rouget. A lifelong resident of Mt. Vernon. A graduate of NYU, she taught History and Political Science in Mt. Vernon High School. Lorraine was active in many civic and professional organizations; President in many and a dev
 SIEGEL--Carol, 71. Beloved wife of Arthur for 50 years. Devoted mother to Evan and Cherie. Adoring grandmother to Ariana, Jordan, Stephen, Gabrielle, Jonathan and Chase. Her love and guidance will be missed dearly by all. Services at Guttermans Chapel, Woodbury, NY at noon today.       
 SOLOMON--Jeannette R. The partners and staff of Peter J. Solomon Company, L.P. mourn the death of Jeannette R. Solomon, beloved mother of our Chairman, Peter J. Solomon. As a frequent visitor to the firm from its beginnings in 1989, Jeannette Solomon shared her intelligence, independence an
 BERNSTEIN--Shirley, (nee Smithline), 80, of Manhattan, died at home on December 20, 2006 after a long struggle with cancer. Revered wife of the late Col. Emanuel Bernstein. Beloved mother of Donald and mother-in-law of Jo Ellen Finkel, adored sister of Edward and the late Stuart, and sister
 CALDERON--Joseph. The former partners of Deutsch, Klagsbrun & Blasband mourn the passing of their senior counsel, whose devotion to the law knew few equals. We extend our condolence to Dorothy, her children and grandchildren.       
 ENOCH--Margaret M. Died at home on December 16th, 2006. Daughter of Albert Jacob Heinemann and Barbara Berberich of Hamburg, Germany; widow of Kurt Enoch. Survived by two stepdaughters, Ruth Gruenthal and Mirjam Stevens. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to Visit
 GILBERT--Elizabeth Isaacs. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of the first Dean of Students at its Stern College for Women. She was the widow of Dr. Moses L. Isaacs, Professor of Chemistry and former Dean at Yeshiva College. A great-great-grandmother, Mrs. Gilbert was 
 WEILERSTEIN--Gertrude, beloved sister and aunt, survived by her brother Marvin, nephews, Kenneth, Philip, Aaron and their children. Services today 12:30pm Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Ave. ( at 10th St), NYC.       
 Ruth Bernhard, whose classical black-and-white photographs of the female nude and inanimate objects earned her a place of distinction among 20th-century photographers, died on Monday at her home in San Francisco. She was 101. The San Francisco medical examiner's office said her deat
 BLUMBERG--Shirley. Died on December 20th after a brief illness. She lived an amazing, active life, filled with travel, theater, dance, art and culture. In addition, she was a voracious reader and loved movie and television mysteries. Born in 1931 to the late Anna and Abraham Chernin, she wa
 BREITBART--Jeanne Essig, 85, of New York died peacefully at home on December 15, 2006 surrounded by family and close friends. Born February 22, 1921 in New York to Lillian Essig and Abraham Essig. After graduating high school, she began a distinguished and extraordinary career in the fashio
 ENOCH--Margaret. Maverick Concerts remembers the great generosity of our muse and patron and will miss her great love of music.       
 KOCH--Wally, of Radburn, NJ died Tuesday night. Her intelligence, strength and progressive ideals are an inspiration. Her grandchildren will miss her.       
 SEKULER--Marilyn. Marilyn was full of fun, enjoying her time at the theater. We'll miss her. Our condolences to Carl and the entire family. Pat and Ronnie Lee Family       
 SCHOENBRUN--Florence (nee Brown), 76, died December 21, 2006. Beloved mother of Roberta Elins Dinkes and son-in-law Steven R. Dinkes. Aunt of Alan and Jan Brown and the late Gerald Jacobson. Great-aunt of Steven Brown and Scott Jacobson. Daughter of the late Harry and Sarah Brown. Sister of
 Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend. She was 77 and a longtime resident of Greenwood, Del. The cause was kidney fa
 SOLOMON--Jeannette. The Tenn South Social Services, Inc. NORC program, Tenn South program for seniors, honor Jeannette Solomon for a life well-lived and filled with care and concern for others. She offered continued support for our seniors at Tenn South Co-op. We offer our condolences to he
 CLARK--Anne Rogers. The Board of Governors, the officers and members of the Westminster Kennel Club deeply mourn the passing of their friend and colleague, Anne Rogers Clark, truly one of the premier people in the sport of purebred dogs. A New York native, she was the first woman profession
 DALL--Margaret Meyerkort, Lyme, NH. Margaret Meyerkort Dall, beloved wife of the late Stewart Maurice Dall, died Friday, December 15th, 2006 after a brief illness. Margaret was born March 22nd, 1924 on Long Island, NY and lived at Cedarhurst after her marriage on February 5th, 1944. The Dal
 STRIEGEL--Jana. Dancer and published Holiday House author, passed away December 17th, 2006 at 51, after a 12 year battle with breast cancer. Diagnosed while pregnant, her successful pregnancy inspired her article for The New York Times. Jana leaves behind her husband Mark and adored son Tan
 WASSERMAN--Jo-Ann (nee Levy) of Manhattan, on December 15th, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved daughter of the late Nathan B. and Florence Rogers Levy and sister of the late Bernard Levy. Survived by cousins Elaine Carliner Millstone, Rita Carliner Miller and Jay Levy of Baltim
 SOLOMON--Jeannette. The Penn South Social Services, Inc. NORC program, Penn South Program for Seniors, honor Jeannette Solomon for a life well-lived and filled with care and concern for others. She offered continued support for our seniors at Penn South Co-op. We offer our condolences to he
 ADELSBERG--Phyllis. Be loved wife of Alan, devoted mother of Scott, Susan and Stuart. Loving grandmother of nine. Survived by her two sisters, Judy and Barbara. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam, on Tuesday December 26th, at 11:30 am.       
 POWERS--Helen F., 92, of NYC, on Saturday, December 23rd, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell Powers, cherished mother of Judy and Sharon, adoring grandmother of Olivia, Daniel, Sarah and Eve. Social worker, Program Director, Associate Director of National Council of Jewish Women, Direct
 ADELSBERG--Phyllis. Be loved wife of Alan, devoted mother of Scott, Susan and Stuart. Loving grandmother of nine. Survived by her two sisters, Judy and Barbara. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam, on Tuesday December 26th, at 11:30 am.       
 BERGER--Flora G., age 98, on December 23rd. Loving mother of Suellen and David Rubin, Anne Rebold, Joel and Judy Berger. Caring grandmother of Deborah, Danielle and David. Always a teacher, the matriarch of an extended family, she lived a fully engaged life to her peaceful transition.      
 DINESCU--Ileana on December 23rd. Loving wife of the late Dr. Leonard. Beloved mother of Eugene Liviu Dines. She will always be fondly remembered for her character, wit, elegance and strength. She will be dearly missed by many. Services Tuesday, 11:30am, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street an
 HAAR--Beth E. (nee Weinstein) 55, of Alpine, NJ, on December 24, 2006. Survived by her husband Robert, children Jamie and Justin Haar, brothers Mark and Lee Weinstein. Donations to the Haar Family Foundation, 62 East 88th Street, New York, NY 10128 would be appreciated. Services are Today a
 NEFF--Mary V., formerly of Astoria, Queens on December 22, 2006. She was the first female Bank Manager for Chase Bank at a Queens Branch. Ms. Neff is survived by her sister Frances Pylilo of Greenpoint Brooklyn. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Visitation Wednesday 5-8PM at Cassidy
 PELLMAN--Renee G., Ph.D. Died on December 23, 2006. Beloved mother of Amy and David, grandmother of Jesse and Theo. She was greatly loved by her clients in her psychology practice. She is also survived by her loving partner, Leon.       
 ROSEN--Molly. The American Friends of Neve Hanna, Kiryat Gat, Israel, is saddened by the passing of Molly Rosen, beloved mother of our co-president, Janet Tobin and mother-in-law of co-president Irwin Tobin. May her luminous memories sustain them in their labors on behalf of Israel and Zion
 SABATELLI--Lillian, 75 years young of Queens, NY on December 22, 2006 after a brief and courageous struggle against pancreatic cancer. Adored wife of Dino, beloved mother of Paula and Ella, and deeply cherished mother-inlaw of Robert and Palmo. Also survived by her sister and brother-in-law
 BERGER--Barbara G., Ph.D., on December 22, 2006, at age 81. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, she received her undergraduate degree from Cornell University and her doctorate from the University of Chicago. Trained as a clinical psychologist and therapist, she devoted years of dedicated service to he
 DANOWITZ--Pearl. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of our distinguished member, Dr. Henry Lieberman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graver, President       
 DOLAN--Bernadette. On December 23rd, 2006. Dear sister of Anne Marie McBride, the late Regina Dolan Kennedy; loving aunt of Deidre McBride Radanovic, Sheila McBride Beaupre, Mary Ellen McBride Mellen and loving great-aunt of 11 grandnieces and grandnephews, and three great-grandneices and g
 GERTZ--Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Helen Gertz, beloved sister of Muriel Goldberg, whose generosity has enabled us to enrich the Jewish community worldwide. We extend our deepest sympathies to Muriel, her husband Bernard
 GLUCK--Arline Margery (Oppenheim) of Brookline, MA. Died December 22 at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. She was 82 years old. She was the wife of the late Larry Gluck. Arline was born in New York City, daughter of Jesse and Jean Oppenheim. She was a resident of Brookline
 KAPLAN--Pearl Rebecca, stage name Sandra Shaw, died December 24th, 2006, three weeks before her 90th birthday. Eldest sister of Martin Kaplan, Naomi Schlessel and George Kaplan (deceased). A talented musician, she was a cocktail pianist in New York and Miami Beach, FL. During World War II s
 KLUGHERZ--Marjorie, M.D. died peacefully December 24th, 2006 at Brookhaven Nursing Home in Lexington MA. Born November 28th, 1908 in Bensonhurst. She was a physician and practiced pediatrics in Brooklyn for more than 50 years. She graduated from NYU medical school in 1933. She and her husba
 ROSENTHAL--Clara left us unexpectedly on December 24th at the age of 90. Devoted wife of the late Laurence; loving mother of Joan and Mel Sokotch, Ellen and Larry Sosnow; adoring grandmother of Peter (Elizabeth), Meg (Avi), Jonathan, Amy, great-grandmother of Ben, Nicholas, Lucas, Ethan; sp
 Kyoko Kishida, who starred in the landmark film ''Woman in the Dunes'' as a young widow consigned to a life of isolation and Sisyphean labor at the bottom of a sand pit, died on Dec. 17 in Tokyo. She was 76. The cause was a brain tumor, a theater company she belonged to told Japanes
 BERGER--Barbara G., Ph.D., on December 22, 2006, at age 81. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, she received her undergraduate degree from Cornell University and her doctorate from the University of Chicago. Trained as a clinical psychologist and therapist, she devoted years of dedicated service to he
 FABRIZIO--Carmen M. On December 27, 2006, a life long resident of Harrison. Mrs. Fabrizio is the beloved wife of the late Joseph, a former member of the Westchester Country Club and a communicant of St. Gregory the Great Church. She is survived by her daughter Lucille Tyler and husband Pete
 KLINGER--Charlotte. In her 97th year, concert pianist and lover of piano music, beloved wife of the late Julius Eric Klinger, devoted mother of William Klinger, dear sister of the late Henry (Zvi) Haftel, loving aunt of Mira Ross and Dalia Bachar. She will be missed by all. Service 10am tod
 LASDON--Gene S. Beloved wife of the late Stanley S. Lasdon. An active philanthropist, she will always be remembered for her humor, kindness, elegance and generosity of spirit. Survived by her loving sons, Richard and Jeffrey, mother-in-law of Jeannette, survived by her sister Peggy Siporin,
 ROSENTHAL--Clara left us unexpectedly on December 24th at the age of 90. Devoted wife of the late Laurence; loving mother of Joan and Mel Sokotch, Ellen and Larry Sosnow; adoring grandmother of Peter (Elizabeth), Meg (Avi), Jonathan, Amy, great-grandmother of Ben, Nicholas, Lucas, Ethan; sp
 SHERMAN--Ann (nee Hardin), 67, of Greenwich, CT and Naples, FL died December 25, 2006. She was born April 23, 1939 in St. Louis, MO, to Hord and Esther Hardin. She is survived by her husband, Michael, and her son Todd; her brother, Hord Hardin II and her sisters, Carol Davis and Lynn Waterb
 SLOTE--Tisha Kunst, 90, on December 26, 2006. Devoted wife for over 55 years of the late Edwin M. Slote, bankruptcy lawyer. Beloved mother of Wendy Kleinbaum and Michael Slote. Adoring grandmother of Cressida and Nathaniel Slote and Kimberly Kleinbaum. Cherished and loving aunt and great-au
 STILES--Laura, age 12, died December 22, 2006 in Morristown, NJ of the difficult - to - cure childhood cancer, Neuroblastoma. She received treatment in Morristown Memorial Hospital, NJ. Memorial Sloan - Kettering, NY and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Her young life, so keenly enjoyed
 WILDENAUER--Ellen V., (Nee Budion). Ellen was called home to Christ on December 24, 2006. Ellen was 86 years old. She was born on March 6, 1920 in New York City. Attended St. Vincent Ferrier School. In 1944 she met and married Joseph Budion who preceded her in death in 1983. She then marrie
 KATZENSTEIN--Sylvia. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the passing of our founding member and benefactor. A cultured and beautiful woman whose elegant presence will be missed. Condolences to her daughter Barbara Jimenez and grandson Luis. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, Pres
 SHERESKY--Jacquelyn Gruder. Cherished and remembered every day for ten years by her family and friends       
 Galina Ustvolskaya, a Russian composer of expressive and often forceful works who studied with Shostakovich, and whose music has found an enthusiastic audience in the West since the early 1990s, died on Dec. 22 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 87. Her death was announced online by
 KELTZ--Pearl, of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife of Herman (Hy), devoted mother of Steven (Amy), Jeffrey (Mindy), and Jody (Carl). Dearly loved grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Olivia, David, Jesse, and Jason. Open hearted, kind, and beautiful, we will miss her.       
 KYLE--Rita Murphy L. Beloved wife of the late Grattan B. Kyle and loving mother of Leslie, Lauren, Grattan and Daniele. Cherished grandmother of Hilary, Kyle, Marissa, Ryan and Fiona. Rita lived an exceptional life; with special verve, good humor, enormous generosity. Rita had the ability t
 LECHER--Muriel, formerly of Long Island, NY, passed away in Tucson, Arizona. Devoted wife of the late B. Douglass Lecher, M.D. Loving mother of Andrew, Peter and Tom. Adored mother-in-law of Donna, Debbie and Pam. Cherished grandmother (Nan, Ayah) of Liza, Todd, Martin, Matthew and Alexande
 NADLER--Nancy Sharon (nee Hertz), on December 27th. Beloved wife of the late Arch Nadler, adored mother of Steven, Lauren, and David. Step - mother of Linden. Grandmother of Rose, Cameron, Ben, Caroline, Sydney, and Savannah. Sister of Roy Hertz, Ruth Kahn and the late Doris Wolfson. A grea
 SCIRE--Helen G. Ph.D, was born in Manhattan on November 5, 1921. Died on December 28, 2006. A graduate of Hunter High School, Hunter College and NYU from which she received a Ph.D in Clinical Psychology. Her analytical training was with New York Freudian Society. From 1962-2002, Dr. Scire w
 Wilma Dykeman, a noted writer about Appalachia who explored her native region -- often joyously, sometimes painfully -- in many works of fiction and nonfiction, died on Dec. 22 in Asheville, N.C. She was 86 and had lived in Asheville for many years. The cause was an infection result
 BERKELEY--Teri Diane. A long time resident of South Orange, NJ died December 28th, she was 60. She was the wife of 38 years to Leonard H. Berkeley, a partner with the law firm of Weiner Lesniak, LLP of Parsippany; mother of two sons, Jason of New York City and Lorne and wife Kelle of Hollyw
 COVELL--Dorothy, died on December 28th, 2006 at the age of 89 after a short illness. She was born in London, England and lived most of her adult life in NYC. She will be missed by her many friends who loved her.       
 HORNE--Virginia Drake Hubbard died at home on December 26, surrounded by her children and grandchildren. She was born on July 16, 1911, in Pittsfield, MA, to Millicent Chase Drake and James Frank Drake, who helped establish Gulf Oil Corp. for the Mellon family. Educated at Miss Porter's Sch
 KRIEGER--Eleanor. Passed away at the age of 89 in Lake Worth, Florida on December 28th, 2006. She is survived by Basil, her loving husband of 64 years, her daughter Karen and her husband George Myers, her son Robert and his wife Randi, her grandchildren Robyn and Lyle, and her great-grandch
 MEYER--Katherine B., died on December 28, 2006, in Syosset, N.Y. surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of Charles G. Meyer Jr., loving mother of Katherine (Christopher) Merritt, Charles G. (Susan) Meyer III, Robert P. (Colette) Meyer, and adoring grandmother of Ned, Henry, Robert, Caroline
 SCIRE--Helen G. Ph.D, was born in Manhattan on November 5, 1921. Died on December 28, 2006. A graduate of Hunter High School, Hunter College and NYU from which she received a Ph.D in Clinical Psychology. Her analytical training was with New York Freudian Society. From 1962-2002, Dr. Scire w
 SCIUTTO--Elizabeth Higgins, on December 28, in New York, survived and greatly missed by her husband, Ernest; her children, Mary, Nellie, Patsy and Jimmy; grandchildren, Austin, Henry, Nicky, Charles and Ella; and sisters, Margaret and Nell. Elizabeth was born in Louisville, KY, and while sh
 SELLAR--Rita D. Born on February 24, 1904, died peacefully at her home ''Seaweed'' on December 21, 2006. For full obituary go to www.memorialfuneralhome.com       
 SPORN--Phyllis, 88, of Floral Park, NY on December 28. She was predeceased by husband Dr. Harry Sporn and is survived by sons Dr. Jonathan Sporn, of West Hartford, CT and Seth Sporn, of New Rochelle, their wives Jane and Denise, and grandsons Eric, Scott, Matthew, and Jordan. She was belove
 VORT--Gloria. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our long time member, Gloria Vort. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BERK--Judith & Murray, Dedicated teachers in NYC School system. We all miss you. Beloved daughter, Ellen Berk Sanford of Los Angeles and San Diego. Devoted grandparents of Michael Sanford M.D. of Rancho Mirage and Palm Desert, CA. Meredith Silk of Los Angeles and Melissa Sanford, Salt Lake 
 BERKELEY--Teri. You were an elegant lady with a wonderful sense of style and taste. A true professional in every aspect of real estate. A cherished and valued friend, I will miss your toughness, your gentle heart and your wonderful smile. Lisa Macchi, Millennium Homes $(6$)BERKELEY--Teri Di
 GRUBER--Enid Lisa, Ph.D., passed away after a 3 year battle with breast cancer on December 12th, 2006 in Los Angeles, CA. She was 52. Enid is survived by loving husband Dr. Martin Anderson and son Dane; beloved mother Harriet, her brother Neal, and nephews Jared and Oren and his family; dev
 LOUCKS--Carolyn Bade, beloved wife of the late William Dewey Loucks, Jr. died December 22 after a long courageous battle with COPD. Her daughter was by her side. Mrs. Loucks was born in Brooklyn, NY on September 9, 1921. She attended The NY School of Fine & Applied Arts (Parsons School of D
 MEYER--Katherine B., died on December 28, 2006, in Syosset, N.Y. surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of Charles G. Meyer Jr., loving mother of Katherine (Christopher) Merritt, Charles G. (Susan) Meyer III, Robert P. (Colette) Meyer, and adoring grandmother of Ned, Henry, Robert, Caroline
 PERRY--Edna M., 90, died December 28, 2006, in Dallas. Predeceased by her husband of 44 years, Ernest G. Perry. Survivors: daughters, Susan Howley and Priscilla Perry and husband, Harris A. Block; grandchildren, Samantha, Joshua and Justus Howley, Roxanne and Spencer Block; and great-grands
 SCIUTTO--Elizabeth Higgins, on December 28, in New York, survived and greatly missed by her husband, Ernest; her children, Mary, Nellie, Patsy and Jimmy; grandchildren, Austin, Henry, Nicky, Charles and Ella; and sisters, Margaret and Nell. Elizabeth was born in Louisville, KY, and while sh
 TUCKER--Esther, was born on August 4, 1928 in Corona, Queens in New York City. She was married To Dr. Arthur Robert Tucker, M.D. on February 10, 1951. After accompanying Arthur to Australia for medical school, they came back to Queens and settled in Little Neck. Arthur died on August 23, 19
 BERK--Judith & Murray, Dedicated teachers in NYC School system. We all miss you. Beloved daughter, Ellen Berk Sanford of Los Angeles and San Diego. Devoted grandparents of Michael Sanford M.D. of Rancho Mirage and Palm Desert, CA. Meredith Silk of Los Angeles and Melissa Sanford, Salt Lake 
 TERRIS - EISENKRAFT-Diane. Remembering an extraordinary woman who left memories that bless. She rests in Peace. -M. Eisenkraft       
