 FRIEDMAN-Celia. February 16, 1908-January 10, 1997. Devoted wife of David Friedman (previously deceased). Loving mother of Paula, Ben and Eleanor. Adoring grandmother of Russell Goldberg. Homemaker. Remembered for her personal qualities and natural beauty, she will be greatly missed.       
 KLEIN-Sylvia. The Congregation of the Malverne Jewish Center mourns the passing of our longtime member, Sylvia Klein. Condolences to her husband Arthur and children. Barry J. Chesler, Rabbi Murray Greenspan, President       
 SUSSMAN-Zilla Sarah, of West Orange, NJ. Donations in her memory may be sent to Scleroderma Federation, Peabody Office Building, 1 Newbury St, Peabody, MA 01960. Information Menorah Chapels at Millburn, Union, NJ.       
 WEPRIN-Sylvia Leah (nee Brod). Beloved daughter of Harry and Bessie E. Brod. Devoted wife to Louis Weprin and loving mother to Joel, Ruth, Natalie, Barry and Earle. Proud grandmother to Julie, Peter, Eric, Angela and David. Mrs. Weprin achieved a fullness of life, dedicated to service and l
 Mollie Panter-Downes, whose quiet, compelling accounts of everyday British life brought England alive for two generations of readers of The New Yorker, died on Jan. 22 in a nursing home near her longtime home in Surrey. She was 90 and had written The New Yorker's ''Letter from London'' from
 BERGER-Ruth. The New York Women's Bar Association extends its condolences to Director and immediate Past President Andrea Berger, on the death of her beloved mother, Ruth.       
 BERGER-Ruth Fanshel. Died at 69 of cancer on February 1, 1997. Beloved wife of Wallace for 51 years. Daughter of the late Hyman and Clara Fanshel. Devoted mother of Andrea and Adam (Katharine). Loving grandmother of Beth, Louisa and Clara. Sister of David (Florence), Jack (Beatrice) and the
 FINK-Mary. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Martin Fink. Cherished sister of Jean Kelvin. Devoted aunt and great-aunt. Service today 1:30PM at Temple Israel, Central Avenue, Lawrence, Long Island. FINK-Mary. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York, mourns the loss of its devoted member and ex
 JAMES-Beryl Clarke. The Greater New York Links regrets to announce the passing of their sister Link, Beryl Clarke James, on Thursday, January 30, 1997. We will miss her sorely. We offer our sincere condolences to her daughter and members of the family. Wake Tuesday, February 4, 1997, 3PM-8P
 KAUFMAN-Diane (nee Strell), on Jan. 31, 1997. Beloved wife of Justus Kaufman. Beloved mother of Bonnie and Howard Heneson and Billy Kaufman. Beloved grandmother of Susie and Steve Moskowitz and Sandee and Keith Walker. Beloved great-grandmother of Shira and Ari Moskowitz and Ryan Walker. Be
 KISSELGOFF-Lea M. On January 31, 1997. Beloved mother of Anna, cherished wife of the late Avram. A Sinologist, she was an admiring disciple of Professor Marcel Granet in Paris and of Professor L. Carrington Goodrich at Columbia University.       
 LAZAR-Helen Bandow, 79. Adoring wife of Jack. Mother and mother-in-law of Bill and Anne, Jeanne and Michael. Grandmother of Jack, Rebecca, Cooper, Rita and Matthew. She, with her husband Jack, cofounded Kimberly Knitwear, Inc., and she served as the head designer. They built a wonderful com
 LIPTON-Tess, on January 24, 1997. Resident of Las Vegas, Nevada. Formerly of New York City, Shrub Oak Park, Century Village, Deerfield Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Koppel Lipton. Loving mother to Howard, Paul and Daughter-in-law Elaine. Missing her will be grandchildren: Ross, J
 McELROY-Marjorie LeBoutillier, who broke new ground as a female athlete in the 1930's, died on Sunday, January 26, in the Jupiter (FL) Medical Center. She was 80. Her husband of 49 years, David Brown McElroy, said the cause was complications following surgery. A native of Old Westbury, Long
 ROSEN-Yvonne. On January 28,1997. Beloved mother of Roxane and Ronald. Adoring grandmother of Shira, Jaron and Rose. Devoted mother-in-law of Paul. Cherished friend of the children and grandchildren of her dear late husband, George Rosen. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Metro
 RUDDER-Esther Koblenz, age 92, of Aventura, FL, passed away January 30, 1997. Cherished and adored mother of Gail Rudder Kent, of South Orange, NJ, and Neal Rudder of Hollywood, FL. Beloved sister of Ethel Lau, Rose Koblenz Goldberg and Herbert Koblenz. Beloved grandmother of Debra, Ives, D
 SCHACTER-Barbara Cameron, on January 26, 1997. A beautiful person both inside and out, who touched everyone in her own very special way. A devoted and wonderful friend who will live on not only in my heart, but also in the hearts of all those who knew and loved her. Barbara, I will miss you
 WEPRIN-Sylvia Leah (nee Brod). Beloved daughter of Harry and Bessie E. Brod. Devoted wife to Louis Weprin and loving mother to Joel, Ruth, Natalie, Barry and Earle. Proud grandmother to Julie, Peter, Eric, Angela and David. Mrs. Weprin achieved a fullness of life, dedicated to service and l
 FRACTENBERG-Lillian. Though the love of my life, Lillian, left me eleven years ago, I have the same feeling of love for her now that I had before. Harry       
 GRAY-Lilla. Feb. 1, 1897-Aug. 13, 1972. On the centennial of her birth, the children and grandchildren of Lilla Schwartz Gray remember her with love & respect.       
 Lea M. Kisselgoff, a Sinologist who specialized in classical Chinese texts, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. Mrs. Kisselgoff studied classical Chinese at the School of Oriental Languages in Paris and received a degree in Chinese civilization from the Sorbonne. Sh
 COHEN-Celia (Cele) nee Kislah. In her 89th year, beloved wife of Samuel, loving mother of Elaine Krasna (Alvin) and Ruth Wiener (Jerry), devoted grandmother of five and great-grandmother of eleven.       
 LASSER-Tessie, on February 2, 1997, age 96 years. Wife of the late Milton Lasser, mother, by birth and marriage, of Arnold, Ruth, Joseph, Ruth, Howard and Barbara Lasser, and Judith and Mark Litt. Grandmother by birth and marriage of 18 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren. Her focus wa
 LEVINE - Celia Thomashower. Age 93, of Forest Hills, NY, passed away peacefully on Feb. 1, 1997. She is survived by her loving son Marvin Thomashower, daughter Ruth Silverman, son Sidney Thomashower, brothers, grandchildren, great-grandchidlren, relatives and friends. We will remember her a
 ROSEN-Yvonne. On January 28,1997. Beloved mother of Roxane and Ronald. Adoring grandmother of Shira, Jaron and Rose. Devoted mother-in-law of Paul. Cherished friend of the children and grandchildren of her dear late husband, George Rosen. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Metro
 LEVINE-Anna. Remembered always with love by her family. Dear mother, grandma, and great grandma.       
 Kiki Kogelnik, an artist known for rakish depictions of figures and heads, died on Saturday at the Vienna Private Clinic. She was 62 and had homes and studios in Vienna, New York and Bleiburg in southern Austria. She died of ovarian cancer, her family said. Ms. Kogelnik, who
 BOORSTEIN-Hazel (nee Shapiro), age 98, of Vineland, NJ, formerly of Springfield, NJ, died February 2, 1997. She was the beloved wife of the late Isidore Boorstein; cherished mother of Louise B. Schwartz of Vineland, NJ; loving nana of Randy Jill Schwartz, Jay Finestone, Harriet Schwartz Cre
 DEUTSCH-Margaret. The family of Margaret Deutsch mourns her passing on February 2. Beloved wife of the late David Deutsch, beloved mother of Gerald, the late Ronald, and Robert. Beloved grandmother of Gayle, Daniel, Jonathan, and Stacey.       
 DITCHIK-Florence Leder (Dixon), 92, died peacefully at home on February 2, 1997, surrounded by loved ones. Survived and beloved by sons: Donald, Richard and Stephen Dixon; daughters Marguerite (Bunny) Franco and Pat Dixon. Daughters-in-law Gerald, Irma and Anne; dear friend Sonia Sealey; fi
 GELLINOFF-Jeanne L., February 3, in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Justice Abraham J. Gellinoff, cherished mother of Judy and Fred Levy and Joan and David Masket, adored grandmother of Jane (Alan) Neustadter, Steven (Elaine) Masket, Mary-Ellen (David) Stein, Nancy (Richard) Conti, 
 LAZAR-Helen B. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Helen B. Lazar, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. A. Ephraim Diamond, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 SCHIFFMACHER-Rita Devoe, on Feb. 2, 1997 of Great Neck, NY. Beloved wife of the late C. Ellis Schiffmacher. Survived by her son Craig of Manhasset, and her sister Marion Smith of Rockville Centre. Also survived by several nephews, grand nieces, and grand nephews. In repose at the Fairchild 
 WEINBERGER - Esther, died peacefully Feb. 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Loving mother to Lucienne and Jonathan (Jane). Cherished grandmother to David. Services Tuesday, 12 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made t
 WEISSMAN-Sy. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses sincere condolences to our member, Marilyn Weissman, and family on the loss of her beloved husband. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mark Spund, President Yehudah Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 WESTON-Faith Borton, 97, on February 1, at Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA. The widow of the painter, Harold Weston, she was educated at Westtown School ('18) and Vassar ('22). She made her homes in St. Huberts, NY, Perpignan, France, New York City, and since 1977, at Crosslands. She was act
 FINKEL-Molly. EMUNAH mourns the passing of our beloved founder and benefactor. Molly devoted her life time to building a religious Israel with EMUNAH. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Dr. Rosalie Reich, Nat'l President       
 RIFKIN-Rachel. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of a dedicated past president of its Women's Division; beloved sister of Bernard, chairman of the Finance Committee; Arthur and Irving. May her memory be a blessing for all of us. Morton A. Klein, Nat'l Pres Michael Orbac
 THOMPSON-Gertrude S. On February 3 in Ridgewood, NJ at age 89. The students, faculty and staff at the University at Albany, State University of New York, mourn the passing of Gertrude S. Thompson, a major benefactor dedicated to atmospheric science education and research at the University. 
 ZEITLIN-Bessie (Wolsk), age 90, entered into rest February 3, 1997. Of Cambridge, MA., formerly of Purdys, NY and Bal Harbour, FL. Beloved wife of the late Edward J. Zeitlin, dearest mother of Robert Zeitlin of Stow, and Ruth Fischbach of Cambridge. Cherished mother-in-law of Judy Zeitlin a
 GULL-Marilyn, of Palm City, FL, Feb. 4, 1997. Loving wife of the late Anthony, Jr. Deeply beloved mother of Lynne and Anthony, III (Kathryn). Dear sister of Elizabeth Lewis and the late Virginia Richards. Visiting Wednesday, 6-9 PM Whitting Funeral Home, Inc, Glen Head, NY. Funeral service 
 HERZIG-Margot. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourns the passing of Margot Herzig, a remarkable lady, distinguished Trustee, committed friend and loyal benefactor of the hospital. Margot leaves a profound void
 HERZIG-Margot Roten (nee Bloch), died February 4, 1997. Adored and devoted wife of the late Julius F. Roten. Wife of the late Leonard Herzig. Loving and caring mother of Jane Godsick, John Roten, Alan and the late Donald Herzig. Beloved grandmother (Gogo) to Jeffrey and Christopher Godsick,
 KAY-Sylvia, 76, on February 3. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Nathalie, Harvey and Ira. Cherished grandmother of David, Stuart, Scott, Sarah, Benjamin, Lorin, Jonathan. Special motherin-law to Joan, Barry and Carol and special aunt to Bruce and Robert. She was the matriarch of ou
 LAZAR-Helen B. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of NY mourn the passing of Helen B. Lazar, beloved wife of the late Jack Lazar. Through the Lazar Foundation, of which Mrs. Lazar was a trustee and her son, William, is a trustee, the family's generous gifts improve the lives of nume
 LEWIS-Mary C. The family records with deep sorrow the passing of our loving mother and grandmother on February 2, 1997. Carol Matthew, Raphael O. Lewis LEWIS-Mary C. The board and staff of Spence Chapin Services to Families and Children mourn the passing of Mary C. Lewis, our devote
 SHAFRAN-Betty Zunk. On February 4, 1997 after a long illness. Wife of Jack, beloved mother of Eve, Seth and Josh. She will be surely missed by her husband, children and grandchildren and her children's friends. She was the mother of all mothers; loved by all. A feminist before her time and 
 Pamela Harriman, the United States Ambassador to France, a leading figure in the Democratic Party and for decades one of the most vivacious women on the international scene, died yesterday at the American Hospital in Paris of complications of a cerebral hemorrhage. She was 76. Mrs. 
 Margaret Halsey, author of the 1938 best seller ''With Malice Toward Some,'' which poked fun at English customs and mores, died on Tuesday at the Nathan Miller Nursing Home in White Plains. She was 86. In her time, Ms. Halsey, a witty writer with an acute social concern, was compare
 ARONSON-Helene, M.D., of NYC, on February 4, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Naum Aronson, loving aunt of Claire Komisarow-Perez, sister-in-law of Bela Komisarow and cousin of Ruth Hardy. Longtime Attending and Professor of Psychiatry at NYU-Bellevue. Born in Poland 1911. Helene lost her par
 BERGER-Molly. We deeply mourn the passing on Tuesday, February 4, 1997, of our beloved aunt Molly, devoted wife of Benjamin Berger. Molly dedicated her life to family and friends, and always shared with them her love of art and music. Denis and Alan Berger       
 HARRIMAN-Pamela. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of its beloved friend Pamela Harriman. An esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council from 1977 to 1979, and of the Board of Trustees from 1979 to 1993, she will be remembered for her wise counsel and dev
 LAZAR-Helen B. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine note with deep regret the passing of Helen B. Lazar, the beloved wife of the late Jack Lazar and a trustee of the Lazar Foundation. Through the Foundation, Mr. & Mrs. Lazar established a fellowship in cell biology
 RUSSELL-Loretta Vidlar ''Penny'' to her family and friends, age 52, on Feb 2, 1997, died in her sleep. Cherished wife of Bill, beloved mother of Valerie, devoted grandmother of Katherine Renee and Erika Lynn, and sister to Robert Purvis. A Memorial Gathering will be held on Sun, Feb 9th fro
 SHAFRAN-Betty Zunk. On February 4, 1997 after a long illness. Wife of Jack, beloved mother of Eve, Seth and Josh. She will be surely missed by her husband, children and grandchildren and her children's friends. She was the mother of all mothers; loved by all. A feminist before her time and 
 HARRIMAN - Pamela. The Trustees of the Winston Churchill Foundation of the U.S. record their deep sadness at the death of Pamela Harriman, the mother of our fellow Trustee, Winston Churchill, who was herself a member of the Board for many years. Her deep interest and generous support helped
 LIPKIN-Sylvia. (nee Reiner). Died suddenly on Feb. 5, 1997. Survived by her son Stephen Kusiel and her daughter Susan Beesemyer. Memorial gathering will be held at the Manhattan home of her son on Monday, February 10 at 11A.M.       
 TURNER-Sandy. Our book club is saddened by the loss of a dear friend and a spirited leader. We will always remember her commitment and courage.       
 Elizabeth Rudel Gatov, a wealthy California businesswoman who was long active in Democratic politics and served briefly as Treasurer of the United States, died on Jan. 25 at her home in Kentfield, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 85. Mrs. Gatov was Elizabeth Rudel Smith -- she ha
 AVERY-Virginia Kellogg. The Trustees, Auxiliary & Staff of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourn the passing of Virginia Avery, widow of Dr. George S. Avery, former Director of Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Virginia was a warm friend to countless people associated with the Garden. Contributions in h
 DE LA CRUZ-Hipolita (Dona Polita). On February 7, 1997, our mother, a special loving presence died peacefully at the Kateri Residence on Riverside Drive in New York City. Deep sorrow is felt by family members, her daughter Elma M. Lopez (Paula), her son Peter De La Cruz, and grandchildren M
 HEWITT-Florence. The heart of our family passed away on Friday. She is dearly beloved by her husband Bernard; her children Michael and wife Gloria, Peter and wife Barbara, and Wendy and her husband Barry; her ten grandchildren, Jamie, Jon, Adam and wife Barbara, Jonathan, Peter and his wife
 IDES JONES-Cassandra, on February 6, 1997. Wife of Robert (Robin) Childress Jones, Jr., and mother of Caroline and Claire, NYC. Sister of William Ides, Huntington, NY. Reposing at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday, Feb. 9, and Monday, February 10, 3-5 PM and 7-9 PM. Mass of C
 LIPKIN-Sylvia. (nee Reiner). Died suddenly on Feb. 5, 1997. Survived by her son Stephen Kusiel and her daughter Susan Beesemyer. Memorial gathering will be held at the Manhattan home of her son on Monday, February 10 at 11A.M.       
 OWENS-Beatrice Bergen. Beloved wife of the late Joseph E. Owens. Beloved aunt of Richard B. and John G. Cronin and Austin Kilbourn. Funeral Friday, February 14, at 10:30 AM, St. Thomas More Catholic Church, 65 East 89th St. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. Donations in her m
 ROSNER-Rosalind R. On February 8, 1997, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Oscar S. Survived by Seth and Ann Rosner, Jonathan L. and Lydia S. Rosner, Beth and Bibi Giokas, Marianne and Garth Klimchuk, Joshua and Robin Rosner, Rachel Rosner and great-grandchildren Aaron and Sasha. Se
 SACHAR-Thelma. The Brandeis University National Women's Committee deeply mourns the loss of its loyal member and beloved friend, Thema Horowitz Sachar. A permanent member of the National Board, she was involved throughout her life in the Committee's work in support of the University's libra
 SCHWARTZTOL - Karel (Wil liams), age 52, of Thousand Oaks, CA, on Tuesday, Jan. 28, 1997 at her residence following a brief illness. Loving wife of Bob Williams. Cherished daughter of Sunny and the late Ben Schwartztol. Adored mother of Dr. Steven Ainbinder. Caring sister of Robert and Holl
 Ruth Brinkmann, an actress and director who was a founder of the English Theater in Vienna, died there on Jan. 18. She was 62. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her sister, Karin Brown. Ms. Brinkmann was born in Berlin. Her family moved to the United States when she was 3 a
 Dorothy Fosdick, the foreign policy expert who helped fashion the United Nations, the Marshall Plan and NATO in the 1940's, advised Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1952 Presidential campaign and then spent nearly three decades as Senator Henry M. Jackson's chief cold war strategist, died on Wedne
 BURNHAM-Virginia Schroeder, 88, of Greenwich, CT on February 8, 1997 at Greenwich Hospital. Survived by five of her children. A Memorial Service will be held on Tuesday, February 11 at 11:00 AM in The Christ Church Chapel, 254 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT. There are no calling hours. B
 HALL-LeMoyne Noyes, 79, of 4004 The Forest at Duke, died Tuesday, February 4, at Olsen Care Center following an extended illness. Mrs. Hall, born in New Rochelle, NY, had recently moved to Durham from Bedford, NY. Surviving are her husband, Andrew Douglass Hall, Sr., of Durham; three daught
 HEWITT-Florence. The heart of our family passed away on Friday. She is dearly beloved by her husband Bernard; her children Michael and wife Gloria, Peter and wife Barbara, and Wendy and her husband Barry; her ten grandchildren, Jamie, Jon, Adam and wife Barbara, Jonathan, Peter and his wife
 IDES JONES-Cassandra, on February 6, 1997. Wife of Robert (Robin) Childress Jones, Jr., and mother of Caroline and Claire, NYC. Sister of William Ides, Huntington, NY. Reposing at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday, Feb. 9, and Monday, February 10, 3-5 PM and 7-9 PM. Mass of C
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz, age 66, on Friday, February 7 of Paramus, NJ. Survived by her husband David, daughter Liz Joffe of Richmond, CA, son Andrew of NYC, sister Joanna Gewertz Harris of Berkeley, CA, brother Theodore Gewertz of NYC, grandson Daniel Worley of Richmond, CA. Services today, 12 
 NADEAU-Therese E., age 83 on Feb. 7, of 16 Holly St, Salem, MA, formerly of NYC and Gloucester, MA. Sister of Lucille C. Nadeau of Salem, MA. Funeral Service Tuesday at 10:00 AM from Levesque Funeral Home, 163 Lafayette St, Salem, MA followed by her Funeral Mass in St. Joseph's Church, Sale
 WINDISCH-Bertha (Buddy) on Feb. 7 of Bar Harbor, FL, originally from NYC. Beloved wife of the late Irving (Windy) Windisch, she leaves two sisters and numerous nieces and nephews. She was loved by everyone she touched.       
 Alice Huei-Zu Yang, an art historian and curator, died early Saturday morning after a hit-and-run accident at Canal and Varick Streets in Manhattan. She was 35 and lived in TriBeCa. Ms. Yang's husband, Gerald Szeto, an architect with the firm of Calvin Tsai, was injured in the accid
 Cassandra Ides Jones, a former  executive of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the owner of an interior design company, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. Mrs. Jones, who was 48, died of breast cancer, her husband, Robert Childress Jones Jr., said. Mrs. Jones was among the first 
 Jean D. Hewitt, a former food writer and home economist for The New York Times and an early advocate of natural foods, died on Sunday in the Bon Secours-Venice Hospital in Venice, Fla. She was 71 and made her home in Venice. The cause was pneumonia, the family said. Mrs. Hew
 BRAININ-Elise Vogel, on February 6th. Mourned by husband Max Brainin, daughter Ricarda Heller, grandsons Robert and Steven Heller, sister Mimi Schoen and brother Erich Vogel. She will be sorely missed by her many friends and relatives, and remembered fondly by those whom she helped and insp
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth. Beloved mother of P'tach's esteemed Board members, Dr. Ira and Erika Friedman. Condolences to her children, Dr. and Mrs. Friedman, and Mr. and Mrs. VanAmerongen, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. The Children of P'tach   
 HARRIMAN-Ambassador Pamela. On Wednesday February 5, 1997, Ambassador Pamela Harriman died in Paris, France; widow of Governor W. Averell Harriman, and mother of the Honorable Winston S. Churchill, M.P. She is also survived by grandchildren and great grandchildren. Funeral services will be 
 LIEBERWITZ-Anne Scher, 92, a 20 year resident of Miami Beach, and formerly of Great Neck passed away Sunday, February 9, 1997. She is survived by many devoted and loving nieces and nephews. Mrs. Lieberwitz was Treasurer of Colonial Sand and Stone Co. the largest supplier of concrete to the 
 PEARCE-Marion Gengler, 81, of Fairfield, CT., died peacefully at her home Sat., February 8, 1997. Born in NYC, she was a graduate of the Shipley School in Sewickley, PA, and attended Barnard College. She was predeceased by her husband, Arthur W. Pearce. She is survived by her three sons: Ar
 PETERSON-Sharon, died Sat., Feb. 8th. She was a beloved member of the Brooklyn Ethical Society, WBAI Radio and Park Slope Food Co-op. We acknowledge with sadness the passing of Sharon, who so loved life, people and social justice. A medical librarian at Brooklyn Interfaith Hospital, she lea
 SHAVRICK-Isadore. We want to convey our heartfelt sympathy to our Rebbetzin, Claire Hertzberg, on the loss of her father, and to Mrs. Shulamith Shavrick on the loss of her husband, Isadore ShavShavrick. Victor Schildkraut, President Lee Potasinski, Exec Vice Pres       
 TETAMORE-Ruth L. We mourn the death of our amazing mother and friend. In long illness, her passion for people, learning and beauty, sustained her and us. Her triumphant life and courageous death leave an inpired legacy to the many who loved her. Memorial service will be announced. Please gi
 Eleanor Prescott, a producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 50 and lived in Bayside, Queens. She had been taken to the hospital after complaining of chest pains, said her husband, Nicholas G. Garaufis. Ms. Prescott 
 CAREY-Edith S., age 91, of Westhampton Beach, Long Island, passed away Feb. 4, 1997 following an accident in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Thomas I. Carey, D.D.S. She is survived by daughter, Patricia A. Ryan, of Rye, NY, son, Anthony W. Graziano, Jr. of Richmond, IN., and Thomas
 FREEMAN-Corinne, 81, February 7, 1997, of 1449 Bangor St., SE Washington, DC, 20020. Formerly of New York City and New Orleans, LA, she worked for years as a librarian at Fordham University. Funeral Mass will be 10AM, Friday Feb. 14, 1997 at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church, 1600 Morris Ro
 HARRIMAN-Ambassador Pamela. On Wednesday, February 5, 1997, Ambassador Pamela Harriman died in Paris, France; widow of Governor W. Averell Harriman, and mother of the Honorable Winston S. Churchill, M.P. She is also survived by grandchildren and great grandchildren. Funeral services will be
 KALKSTEIN-Beatrice M. Age 91. February 8, 1997 in Stamford, CT. An actress for fifty years on Broadway, radio soap operas and TV, monologist and story-teller in New York and Stamford, for which she was Honored by the State of Connecticut in October 1991. Survived by sons Shawn of Stamford, 
 KATZ-Rochelle. On Feb. 11, 1997. Loving mother of Elaine Hoffman and Barbara Katz. Dear sister of David, Jeremiah and Ira Truman. Adoring grandmother of Jessica, Gabrielle, Daniel, Benjamin and Jacob. Caring mother-in-law of Barry Hoffman and Stephen Fleischman. She will be remembered with 
 LEVEY-Nancy. Wife of Marc. Mother of Jamie, Randi and Greg. Sister of Sue Hochberg. Daughter of Manny Thebner. After a long illness. A woman of great courage and beauty. She will be missed by all. Donations may be made to Terrance Cardinal Cooke, HCCHD Unit, 1249 Fifth Avenue, NYC 10029. Se
 RUBENSTEIN - Barbara. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of a gentle friend and valued colleague, who for many years served our organization with exceptional skill and devotion. The entire staff joins in expressing deepest condolences to her husb
 SALTZMAN-Elaine. On February 11, 1997. Beloved wife of Jules. Loving mother of Robert & David. Dear sister of Julie Chazen. Adoring grandmother of Alissa, Aaron & Sadah. Service Thursday, 1:15PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be made in her memory
 YANG-Alice H.Z. On February 7, 1997. She is survived by her husband, Gerald Szeto, her parents, Mr. and Mrs. William H.Y. Yang, and her brothers, Andrew and James. Services are on Thursday, February 13 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, at 11:30 A.M.       
 YANG-Alice Huei-zu. Students, faculty and staff of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, mourn the tragic loss of our gifted young colleague and friend. Alice was a rare individual of great talent and achievement, much loved and admired. We will miss her subtle mind, her generosi
 BLAICHER - Elizabeth Maulsby Bouldin. Of Vero Beach, FL and St. Huberts, NY, died on February 12, 1997. Survived by her husband Frederick M. and their children Elizabeth M., Frederick M., Jr., Peter B., Arthur A. and Christopher Y., and seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A mem
 BROWN-Beatrice. The New York Pops mourns the death of Beatrice Brown, a founding member of the orchestra. Bea will be missed by all, and remembered for her dedication to music, her sparkling personality, and her benevolence towards musicians and friends. The New York Pops Orchestra Skitch H
 CAREY-Edith S., age 91, of Westhampton Beach, Long Island, passed away Feb. 4, 1997 following an accident in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Thomas I. Carey, D.D.S. She is survived by daughter, Patricia A. Ryan, of Rye, NY, son, Anthony W. Graziano, Jr. of Richmond, IN., and Thomas
 DENNARD-Doris W. Beloved wife of Frederick E. Dennard and cofounder of Harlem Interface Counseling Service, passed away Sunday, February 9, 1997, at 12:15 PM. A celebration of her life will be held on Friday, February 21, 1997, at 6 PM, at the Riverside Church, Main Sanctuary. In lieu of fl
 ELMSLIE-Jean, 88, died in Palm Beach, FL, February 11. An inventive sculptor, her work is permanently displayed at the Norton Museum in West Palm Beach. Survived by daughters, Alexandra Whitelock of Calais, VT and Victoria Duval-Belding of Colorado Springs. There will be no services.       
 GRAY-Florence (Seide). In her 98th year after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin F. Gray. Mother of Jane and Allen Schultz, Barbara and Seymour Jasper. Grandmother of 4 and great grandmother of 6. Graveside service. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to your charit
 HARTIGAN-Anna M. (nee Boardman). On February 11, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving sister of the late Aux. Bishop John J. Boardman, Director of the Propagation of the Faith, 1937-1966 and the National Treasurer. Dear cousin of Elizabeth A. Jennings and Mary V. Farrell. Wake Frid
 LOEW-Erna (nee Oppenheimer). Beloved wife of the late Semmy Loew and Willy Eichenwald. Devoted mother of the late Dieter and Klaus, much loved and admired Auntie Erna to cousins, family and friends. Interment private. Donations in her memory to the Anne Frank Center U.S.A., 584 Broadway, NY
 SALTZMAN-Elaine. On February 11, 1997. Beloved wife of Jules. Loving mother of Robert & David. Dear sister of Julie Chazen. Adoring grandmother of Alissa, Aaron & Sadah. Service Thursday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be made in her memor
 SCHWARZ-Ferne R., of Reading, Pennsylvania. Beloved and adored of Mark, Roger, Saul, David, Lucy, Nancy, Jeffrey and Debbie. Her energy, wisdom, commitment and sense of humor will be forever missed. Donations to personal charities or the Park Avenue Synagogue. Memorial service in New York C
 YANG-Alice. In memory of Alice Yang, our beloved colleague and friend, who was one of the most engaging intellectuals involved with the arts today and, worked at The New Museum of Contemporary Art as Assistant Curator from 1988-1993. Her colleagues and friends admired and loved her brillian
 BLAICHER - Elizabeth Maulsby Bouldin. Of Vero Beach, FL and St. Huberts, NY, died on February 12, 1997. Survived by her husband Frederick M. and their children Elizabeth M., Frederick M., Jr., Peter B., Arthur A. and Christopher Y., and 7 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A memoria
 GRAY-Florence. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, wife of our late past President Benjamin F. Gray and extend our heartfelt condolences to her children Jane and Allen Schultz, her grandchildren John and Marc
 GRAY-Florence (Seide). In her 98th year after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin F. Gray. Mother of Jane and Allen Schultz, Barbara and Seymour Jasper. Grandmother of four and great grandmother of six. Graveside service. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to your c
 JANSSEN-Eleanor Hill. February 9, 1997. Formerly of Mt. Pleasant, TN, & NYC. Relatives and friends are invited to a memorial service Friday 11:15AM, St. Mary's At The Cathedral Church, Philadelphia. Donations in her memory may be made to Saint Mary's At The Cathedral Church, 600 E. Cathedra
 SCHEER-Ray, 90, of Lake Worth, FL., formerly of NYC died February 12, 1997. She is survived by her sons Malcolm E. and Dr. Stuart C., and two grandchildren Jennifer and Nicholas Scheer. Services will be graveside Sunday, February 16 at Riverside Cemetery, Rochelle Park, NJ. For information 
 SCHWARZ-Ferne R., of Reading, Pennsylvania. Beloved and adored of Mark, Roger, Saul, David, Lucy, Nancy, Jeffrey and Debbie. Her energy, wisdom, commitment and sense of humor will be forever missed. Donations to personal charities or the Park Avenue Synagogue. Memorial service in New York C
 SHAVRICK-Isadore. We want to convey our heartfelt sympathy to our Rebbetzin, Claire Hertzberg, on the loss of her father, and to Mrs. Shulamith Shavrick on the loss of her husband, Isadore Shavrick. Jewish Center of Bayside Oaks Victor Schildkraut, President Lee Potasinski, Exec Vice Pres. 
 WEIL-Henrietta Simons. The officers, leadership and staff of UJAFederation mourn the passing of Henrietta Simons Weil, a member of a legendary family with a proud history in the community. Mrs. Weil was a dedicated philanthropist who supported numerous charities throughout her life. She was
 BELINK-Helen. Beloved mother of Susan and Alan, cherished grandmother of Jennifer and Alexandra, sister of Muriel, passed peacefully, February 11, 1997, on the evening of wedding anniversary with her dearly beloved husband, Cantor Norman Belink, Cantor Emeritus, Temple Sinai of Roslyn. Viva
 GORNICK-Bess, 94, on February 13, 1997, in NYC. She is survived by her daughter, Vivian, and a son, Fred, her granddaughters, Janet and Lisa, and a great-grandson, Zachary. Memorial services will be held on Sunday, February 16, at 2:30 P.M., at Wien & Wien, 152 Second Avenue, New York City.
 OWENS-Naomi Ruth Loefer, who died peacefully in her sleep in the early morning of February 4, 1997. It was the culmination of her 12 year battle with breast cancer. She leaves behind her husband of 35 years Ray Owens, her brother Jeffrey Loefer and a host of friends. She was born July 6, 19
 PIERPOINT-Margaret S., of New York City and Madison, CT, on February 14, 1997. Survived by her husband, Powell, her daughter, Harriet P. Bos, her sister, Lillian S. Forsch, her brother, William S. Sagar, Jr., and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church, 865 
 DARNALL-Katharine Whipple, 86. On February 12, 1997, in Asheville, NC. Wife of the late Frank McGrann Darnall. Survived by her son Edward Crosby of NYC and two grandchildren, Kimberley and Gregory. Memorial services will be held in Asheville, NC, and Chappaqua, NY, at a later date.       
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. February 7, 1997. Family and friends mourn this wonderful woman. May her memory be for a blessing.       
 KAUFMAN-Anne. On January 31, 1997. Beloved sister of Sara Landis. Devoted aunt to four of her nephews and their children. Interment at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, New York.       
 McCLANAHAN-Sophie Lay. Of Modesto, CA. Formerly of Englewood, NJ, and Manhattan, passed away peacefully, February 9, just before her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late ophthalmologist, Dr. Robert McClanahan, mother of William, Sophie Barnes, Anne Bourne, and Sara Hancox, sister of Louisa M
 PIERPOINT-Margaret S., of New York City and Madison, CT, on February 14, 1997. Survived by her husband, Powell, her daughter, Harriet P. Bos, her sister, Lillian S. Forsch, her brother, William S. Sagar, Jr., and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church, 865 
 McCONNELL-Cornelia Sloane, 77, on February 10, 1997. Beloved wife of the late E. Riggs McConnell. Survived by her brother William M. Sloane II, and eight nieces and nephews.       
 PIERPOINT-Margaret S., of New York City and Madison, CT, on February 14, 1997. Survived by her husband, Powell, her daughter, Harriet P. Bos, her sister, Lillian S. Forsch, her brother, William S. Sagar, Jr., and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. James Church, 865 
 RICHMAN-Lillian. On February 15, of Pompano Beach, FL, formerly of Malverne, NY. Beloved wife of the late Harry, devoted mother of Janet Bibber, cherished sister of Howard and the late Dan Hurwitz. Contributions to Hospice who cared for her so tenderly after her long and valiant struggle.  
 Dr. Chien-Shiung Wu, a physicist who performed a historic experiment overturning what had been considered a fundamental law of nature, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Dr
 FISHMAN-Sara. Cherished wife and best friend of husband Bernard. Loving mother of Carol Beth, mother-in-law of David, and dear grandmother of Molly and Ethan. On Feb. 16, 1997. Esteemed member for 22 years of the medical social work team of Babies Hospital at Columbia Presbyterian Medical C
 MILLER-Helen Pearl, 97, beloved wife of Paul, mother of Fanchon Scheier, mother-in-law of Saul, grandmother of Joshua and Joanna, great grandmother of Eliza, former soprano soloist of the YMHA, and Temple of the Covenant. She had a great appetite and zest for life. MILLER-Helen. Tem
 Emily Hahn, an early feminist and a prolific author who wrote 54 books and more than 200 articles for The New Yorker, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92, said her daughter, Carola Boxer Vecchio. Ms. Hahn was known for her writings ab
 HUGHES-Marion, on February 17, 1997. Wife of Derek; mother of Robin O'Hara, Adam and Jennifer Hughes; sister of Penny Davis and Richard Brown. Services at St. Thomas Episcopal Church, Fifth Ave. at 53rd St., Friday, 11 A.M. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory 
 BARTH-Edith. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Edith B. Barth, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Emanuel and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Harry Laufer, President       
 FISHMAN-Sara. Cherished wife and best friend of husband Bernard. Loving mother of Carol Beth, mother-in-law of David, and dear grandmother of Molly and Ethan. On Feb. 16, 1997. Esteemed member for 22 years of the medical social work team of Babies Hospital at Columbia Presbyterian Medical C
 HAYWARD-Joyce Helena, at her home in London on Feb 17. Beloved mother of Anthony and Verena, and her grandchildren Nicholas, Jessica, Nina, Simon, Emma and Jeremy. A memorial service will be arranged in London.       
 KEEGAN-Mary Hurley. Wife of the late Peter V. Keegan. Mother of Patricia Keegan Peck and Kathleen Keegan Mattessich, and grandmother of Adam R. Mattessich. Sister of Edward Hurley and Margaret Weatherly. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., 81 St., Wednesday. Funeral Ma
 LITWIN-Joan of Little Silver, on Feb 17, 1997. Beloved wife of Gordon N. Litwin. Devoted mother of Richard, Abby Mooney and Peter. Dear sister of Harriet Goldsmith. Loving mother-in-law of Michael Mooney and Christina Litwin, nee Berti, and adored grandmother of Matthew, Andrew, Sophie and 
 SIMON-Elaine, R.N. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of our long-time friend and colleague, Elaine Simon, R.N., a distinguished and highly respected member of our nursing department from 1970 to 1996. An alumna of the Phillips Beth Israe
 WASSERMAN-Milton. WIZO New York mourns with Susan Sanders in the loss of her beloved father. Evelyn Sommer President WIZO USA       
 BERNSTEIN-Dorothy. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Association of Family Development Centers, Family Head Start, and Family Day Care, extend their heartfelt condolences to all the bereaved members of the Bernstein family. For 30 years Mrs. Bernstein was the Assistant Direct
 CASE-Peggy K., age 73, of N. Branford, CT. Beloved wife of George, died Thurs. Feb. 6 at CT Hospice. Mother of Carole Spadaro and Marcia Case, grandmother of Lisa Gallina, niece of Lorraine Brown, she was a graduate of Rhodes college & had MSW from NYU. Retired psychiatric social worker and
 CLARK-Ruth. Beloved mother of Judy and Andy, cherished wife of the late Joseph Clark, devoted and remarkable grandmother of Harriet, Aaron, Daniel, and Joseph, caring mother-in-law to Cheryl Ogburn, second mother to Miriam Camitta and her family, and noted expert on public opinion polls and
 NELSON-Diana (Klutch), on February 20th, 1997. Beloved wife and companion of the late Dr. Jack Nelson, at whose side she worked and played for sixty years. Devoted mother of Peggy, Ruth, Steve, Mark. Cherished mother-inlaw of David, Lynda, Margaret. Loved grandmother of Jesse, Marya, Molly,
 PENDEL-Ronni. Beloved daughter of Sylvia and Irving Weiss, loving mother of Elise. Devoted sister of Michael Weiss. Cherished aunt. May God grant her peace and serenity. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, 11:30 A.M., Sunday.       
 PRICE-Shirley, on February 19, 1997 in her 94th year. Loving aunt of Barbara and Richard Schpero, Ilene and Mel Morris, Nicki and Ira Harris, and Peter Price. Sister-inlaw of Trudy Price, great aunt of Suzanne and Steven Schpero, Marion and Eric Hertlein, Steven Morris, Jackie, Jonathan, an
 STANG-Bertha Tilzer, a native of Staten Island, died of cancer on Feb. 19, 1997 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 90. Mrs. Stang's late brother was Ira L. Tilzer. Mrs. Stang is survived by her nieces Louise Tilzer Greenfield of Manhattan, Leslie Tilzer Krasny of San Anselmo, CA.,
 STOCK-Florence G. (nee Sandler) Beloved wife of Daniel C. Stock. Sister of Lila Cooper of Pittsburg, PA. We will sadly miss her kind and gentle ways. Service Friday 12:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC.       
 Katharine Winthrop McKean, an outstanding amateur tennis player of the 1930's and 1940's, died on Feb. 12 at her home in Hamilton, Mass. She was 82. Mrs. McKean won four national junior girls' tennis titles, playing out of Boston, and five national women's titles, in indoors singles
 BAKER-Helen E., 64, of Bethany, PA, on February 21, 1997 at her home. Survived by husband, Alexander J. Baker, son, Alexander J. Baker of Philadelphia, daughters, Cecilia Brennan of Westwood, NJ and Cathlin Baker of NYC. Employed with Lucent Technologies, she received a B.A. from Manhattanv
 GOLD-Irene Leck Shembs, 89 of Asheville, North Carolina, died Thursday, February 20, 1997, in an Asheville hospital. Born in Newton, Iowa, she was a daughter of the late Thomas W. and Katherine Engel Goodhue and a niece of the late Wanda Stanard of Asheville. She retired to Asheville with h
 GOLDBLATT-Frieda Bialkin, died peacefully on February 18, 1997, just before her ninety-first birthday. Wife of the late Morris, mother of Jerome and Zita Rosenthal, sister of Miriam, Nettie, Bernard and Albert, grandmother of Ellen, James and Elizabeth. Her lively sense of humor and wonderf
 PERSHAN-Dinah. The Covenant Foundation mourns the passing of Dinah Pershan on February 17, 1997. Beloved grandmother of our esteemed Board member Dr. Betsy Dolgin Katz, Dinah Pershan was born in Krutya, Russia on November 11, 1892 to Asna Dubov and Israel Aaron Shulman. She came to the Unit
 SIMONS-Joyce Fields. On February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Richard Fields and the late Judith Fields Alviani. Mother-in-law of Marjorie Vandow and Joseph Alviani. Loving grandmother of Matthew and Samantha. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 STUART-Ellen E. Died in Venice, Florida. Mrs. Stuart was born in Newport, Wales. Moved to Hoboken, NJ in 1958. Lived in NY Tudor City from 1962-1990. Ellen was the Executive Medical Secretary to the Surgeon Director at Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital in NYC. She was a member and former Grand
 Nora Beloff, a gifted political writer and foreign correspondent who was a trailblazer among women in British journalism, died on Feb. 12. She was 78 and a longtime resident of London. She had a short illness, said The Associated Press, which reported her death on Feb. 15. The place
 FINK-Pearl Yadoff. Of NYC on Feb. 17. Lover of opera and the Sunday Times Crossword; obtained a Master's from Goddard at the age of 56. She is survived by brother Bernard Yadoff, daughter Janis Ian, son Eric Fink, daughterin-law Natalie and her beloved grandsons, Matthew, Brian and Shawn. D
 GORDON-Sylvia. In loving memory. Born in New York City, August 14, 1914, wife of the late Morris Gordon, photojournalist & pioneer in photography. She leaves her daughter Diane Gordon-Sacchetti of Manhattan, her sister Barbara Okin of Florida, her nieces and nephews of California, Ohio, Flo
 HOLME-Mildred ''Mimi'', age 68, of Sarasota, Florida died February 18, 1997 at the age of 68. She was born in Bristol, England and was a homemaker. She graduated from Riverdale Country School and Oxford University. She is survived by her daughters Roberta (Robin) Wolyner of New York, NY; Je
 MOTTY-Carol, on February 21st, 1997 in Miami Beach. Renowned artist. Beloved wife of Norman Levenson. Devoted mother of Erik Bryan Slavin. Adored sister of Richard and Steven Finkelstein and the late Marilyn Finkelstein Robins. Cherished by her family and friends-Dayala and Vernell; Charlie
 MUIRHEAD-Isobel E. Of Jamesburg, NJ, on Feb. 19, 1997. Graduate of Douglas College and Fordham Law School. Member of Phi Beta Kappa. Retired from the Port Authority of NY and NJ in 1983, where she was Chief of Opinions and Appeals, Law. Awarded the Port Authority's Distinguished Service Med
 PRICE-Shirley, on February 19, 1997 in her 94th year. Loving aunt of Barbara and Richard Schpero, Ilene and Mel Morris, Nicki and Ira Harris, and Peter Price. Sister-inlaw of Trudy Price, great aunt of Suzanne and Steven Schpero, Marion and Eric Hertlein, Steven Morris, Jackie, Jonathan, an
 SCHWARTZ-Ruth. Of West 110th Street, New York City, died Friday at her home after a brief illness. Born in Brooklyn to Dora and George Schwartz, she was a graduate of Eastern District High School. For many years Miss Schwartz worked as an administrative assistant for the Amalgamated Men's C
 SIMONS-Joyce Fields. On February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Richard Fields and the late Judith Fields Alviani. Mother-in-law of Marjorie Vandow and Joseph Alviani. Loving grandmother of Matthew and Samantha. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 WALKER-Janet Hayes. Founder and producing director of the York Theatre Company, died February 20, 1997 after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Wife of Charles Dodsley Walker, mother of Peter Hayes Walker and Susan Walker Wyss, grandmother of Natalie Starr Wyss, Branford Hayes Walker an
 WELTZ-Harriet, 59, died peacefully February 21, 1997. Loved, cherished and adored by her surviving husband, Stuart S. Weltz, her children, Robin Parks and Irwin Weltz, her son-in-law, Alan, and daughter-in-law, Kerri, her grandchildren, Stephanie and Jason Parks, her sisters and brothers-in
 BECK-Helen H. On February 22, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Mike. Devoted mother of Linda Beck Cane. Cherished grandmother of Eric Smidt and Abigaile Cane. Visitation will be February 24, 7-9 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Services Tuesday, 12 noon at ''The Riverside
 FISCHER-Berthe. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime member. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 HYMAN-Josephine. Age 92, of New York City. Widow of S. Frank Hyman. Beloved daughter of late Louis and Sophie Cohen. Devoted sister of Jeanette Goldfarb, Adele Zemansky and E. Malcolm Cohen, M.D. Survived by caring sister-inlaw Sylvia Cohen and numerous nieces and nephews. Always gracious. 
 NUGENT-Helen Mara. Age 89. Died February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph C. Nugent and the late John V. Mara. Loving mother of Maura Mara Concannon and the late Timothy J. Mara. Dear sister of Lillian Phelan and Jeanne Rohrs. Cherished grandmother of Christine Geithner, Kathleen A
 SIMONS-Joyce Fields. On February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Richard Fields and the late Judith Fields Alviani. Mother-in-law of Marjorie Vandow and Joseph Alviani. Loving grandmother of Matthew and Samantha. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 SWAN-Lila. On February 21. Passed away peacefully after a long illness. Loving wife of Kingsley Swan, will be remembered with love by her step-daughter Suzette McGouth, her nephew Bonzo King and cousin John Baker. Beloved daughter of the late Philip and Stella King. She will be deeply misse
 WALKER-Janet Hayes. Founder and producing director of the York Theatre Company, died February 20, 1997 after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Wife of Charles Dodsley Walker, mother of Peter Hayes Walker and Susan Walker Wyss, grandmother of Natalie Starr Wyss, Branford Hayes Walker an
 ANDERSON-Rose Mary, of Summitville, NY, a retired Manager for Anderson Handprints in Middletown, died Tuesday, Jan. 21, at her home in Summitville. She was 70 years old. The daughter of the late Theodore and Margaret Feeney Zellers, she was born September 17, 1926 in Toledo, OH. Survivors i
 BOHANON-Eunice Blake. Died February 16, 1997. Widow of Paul and long time resident of East 80 St. and New London, NH. Daughter of the late James and Helen Blake of New Haven. Survived by her cousins Alfred P. Putnam, Anne Morrish, Helen Lilly and Catherine Goodrich. Contributions in her mem
 BRENNER-Bertha. Beloved wife of Sy. Devoted mother of Phylis Fisher, Dean and Gwenn, Fawn and Brian Rich. Loving grandmother of Tori, Allison, Ross, Jared, Evan and Eric. Dear sister of Florrie Abramowitz. Services Wednesday, 9:30AM, at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre
 COOPER-Gertrude. We record with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and member Gertrude Cooper. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her niece Roslyn and to the other members of the family. Howard Fensterman, Pres. The Woodmere Club       
 CREEM-Theresa De Voe, 90, widow of John J. Creem Jr. died at St. Francis Hospital after a long illness on January 23, 1997. A long time member of the Munsey Park and Sands Point Garden Clubs. She was a nationally accredited horticultural judge. She is survived by her 3 sons: Michael, Anthon
 GLANTZ-Rae Fishberg, 94, at home on Bay Harbor Islands, Fla. Widow of Harry; cherished mother of Geraldine, Janice and Lois. Beloved mother-in-law of Sidney Bergman, Robert Greenstein and Arthur Rosenfeld. Adored grandmother of the late Pamela, Susan, Ivy, Tod, Felicia, Carolyn and Sara. Lo
 LEHMAN-Dora. On February 23, 1997. Devoted wife of the late Samuel Lehman. Dearly beloved and cherished mother of Eleanor Lehman, Wallace Lehman and the late Sandra Kass. Mother-inlaw of Sheila Lehman and Jacob Kass. Adored grandmother of Sam, Abby, Marjorie, Ari, Nancy, Sam and Daniel. Dev
 LIVINGSTON-Gladys Sherr Ritter. With great sadness we record the passing of our beloved Gladys Livingston, a woman of style, humor and generosity. Mother of Toby and Nataly Ritter, Frances and Robert Weisman. Grandmother of Louis and Laurie, Ward and Loree and Adam Weisman; Louis, Victoria 
 NEWHOUSE-Bertha S. Died on January 23 in New York City at the age of 78. Beloved wife of Roy for over 53 years. Loving mother of Martin and Lina Wood. Devoted grandmother of Katherine, Philip, Samuel, Emma and Rebecca. Born in Mt. Vernon, New York, she lived most of her life in New York Cit
 NUGENT-Helen Mara. Age 89. Died February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph C. Nugent and the late John V. Mara. Loving mother of Maura Mara Concannon and the late Timothy J. Mara. Dear sister of Lillian Phelan and Jeanne Rohrs. Cherished grandmother of Christine Geithner, Kathleen A
 PERKIS-Bertha, on January 22, 1997. Mother of the late Donald Twerie. Survived by her grandchildren Hillary and Vincent Sofield, Andrew and Colleen Twerie and great-grandchildren, Vincent and Dylan Sofield. Survived by many loving nieces and nephews. We love her and will miss her very much.
 PINSKER-Lennie. Passed away at home Sunday, February 23, 1997. My loving wife of over 53 years. I love her. Cap       
 SALLICK - Marion Marshall. Peacefully at home on February 21. Widow of Myron A. Sallick, M.D. Survived by her children, Joy Rogers and Richard Sallick, six grandchildren, five great grandchildren, sister and brother-in-law, Margaret and Arthur Lycett, Jr., sister-in-law, Alice Marshall, and
 SIMONS-Joyce Fields. On February 21, 1997. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Richard Fields and the late Judith Fields Alviani. Mother-in-law of Marjorie Vandow and Joseph Alviani. Loving grandmother of Matthew and Samantha. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 Van ZANDT-Leona Thompson. On January 21. Beloved widow of Roland Van Zandt, historian and author of The Catskill Mountain House and other books. A woman of great culture, vitality, creativity and love who enriched the lives of her many friends and family. She is survived by three children: 
 WEINER-Dorothy, age 88, of Bronx, NY. Survived by her son Barry, her brother David, and three grandchildren: Jessica, Hallie, and Ross. Services are today, 10:00 am, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 WERTHEIMER-Sophie (nee Eisemann). Died 2/23/97 in her 92nd year. Beloved mother of Henry Wertheimer and Ruth Rosenberg. Grandmother of four and greatgrandmother of twelve. She will be deeply missed.       
 ACKERMAN-Johanna. January 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Laura Spahn and son-in-law, the late Milton and Edith Wiener and sonin-law Preston. Caring daughter of the late Abraham and Sarah Weisman. Loving sister of Jacob Weisman. Dear sister-in-law of Rae Weisman. C
 AIZER ELIAHOU-Aviva, at age 65, on January 23. Devoted and loving wife to Albert. Cherished and adored mother of Donald, Vivian, and Robert. Mother-in-law of Moshe and Bianca. Beautiful grandmother of Avi and Talia. Aviva was a beautiful flower in our lives. She will be missed, remembered a
 ALLEN-Marguerite (Gracie). In order to accommodate the many friends that Grace has made over her long and fruitful life, the location and date of her memorial service has been changed to St. Bartholomew's Church at 51st Street and Park Ave on Tuesday, February 4 at 2:30pm. Howard P. Milstei
 ARTASERSE-Muriel D. (nee Dodd), of Clifton, NJ on Jan. 23, 1997. Survivors include her loving husband, Hon. Peter P. Artaserse, and her son, Peter, Jr. Funeral services Tuesday, 10:30 AM from the Bizub-Quinlan Funeral Home, Clifton and 11:00 AM at St. Philip the Apostle R.C. Church, Clifton
 BLACK-Ethel. Died at 100 years. Wife of the late Witherbee Black, President and Founder of Black, Starr & Frost. Survived by her daughter Ethelette Tucker Ridder, stepson James Gordon Black, grandchildren Eric Ridder, Jr., Susan Lane Ridder, great grandchildren Eric Ridder, III, Catherine T
 BRAM-Anna P. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our esteemed colleague, Anna P. Bram. An ardent Zionist, and devoted to Hadassah, Anna was beloved by Hadassah chapters in both Philadelphia and Southern California for her warmth, leadership and humor. She will be misse
 CORWEN-Josephine R., on January 20, 1997, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late A. Miller Corwen, devoted mother of Albert and Robert. Fond sister of Lester and the late Lillian and Raymond. Cherished mother-in-law of Catherine and Janice. Adored grandmother of Robert, Catherine, Kimbe
 CREEM-Theresa De Voe, 90, widow of John J. Creem Jr. died at St. Francis Hospital after a long illness on January 23, 1997. A long time member of the Munsey Park and Sands Point Garden Clubs. She was a nationally accredited horticultural judge. She is survived by her 3 sons: Michael, Anthon
 FAY-Valle Weber. Of Rowayton, CT, who led the efforts to revitalize South Norwalk in the late 1970's and 80's, died Wednesday night in Norwalk Hospital of complications following an emergency operation. Beloved wife of Francis X. Fay, Jr. and loving mother of Valle Gaynor Blake of Brighton,
 FRIEDLANDER-Lotte. On January 25, 1997. She is survived by a son Tomas, and granddaughters Jill Goroff and Amy Friedlander, as well as three great-grandchildren. She was 92 years old and lived life to the fullest.       
 GLANTZ-Rae Fishberg, 94, at home on Bay Harbor Islands, Fla. Widow of Harry; cherished mother of Geraldine, Janice and Lois. Beloved mother-in-law of Sidney Bergman, Robert Greenstein and Arthur Rosenfeld. Adored grandmother of the late Pamela, Susan, Ivy, Tod, Felicia, Carolyn and Sara. Lo
 GORIN-Margaret, on February 16, 1997, at age 85, after a long incapacitation resulting from a stroke. Beloved sister of Irene and Leo, aunt of Kathy and Mark, and great aunt of Alex and Destiny Rose. We shall miss her.       
 HALL-Marion Dalton, 86, died after a long illness on Jan. 22, 1997. Widow of Isaac Davis Hall; loving mother and grandmother of Susan and David Hall; Elizabeth, Jacob and Benedict Carton; Emlen, Jennifer, Delaney, Chloe and Gavin Hall; Isaac, Dana and Leahi Hall; Louisa Hall and Rob and Ebe
 HARTMAN-May W., 97. Widow of Judge Gustave Hartman. Mother of the late Kenneth Hartman. She is survived by daughter Alicia Ashe, grandchildren Theodore, Andrew and Catherine Hartman and her daughter-in-law Polly Hartman, many nieces and nephews. She was the Founder of the Gustave Hartman YM
 KIRWIN-Mary Knowles, of New Vernon, NJ, on February 24, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Peter H. Kirwin. Mother of Peter, Thomas, Mrs. Eileen Cameron and Mrs. Rosemary Kirwin-Alvord. Also survived by 12 grandchildren, a great-granddaughter and many nieces and nephews. A Mass of Christian Bur
 LIVINGSTON-Gladys Sherr Ritter. With great sadness we record the passing of our beloved Gladys Livingston, a woman of style, humor and generosity. Mother of Toby and Nataly Ritter, Frances and Robert Weisman. Grandmother of Louis and Laurie, Ward and Loree and Adam Weisman; Louis, Victoria 
 MANLEY-Helen Swenson. At Lakewood, NJ, on January 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late John Howard Manley. A longtime resident of New York, she was a valued member of the support staff of Sullivan and Cromwell, as secretary to Eustace Seligman, a prominent senior partner. Survived by her brot
 NAMMACK-Margaret (Paisley) in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Griswold Delacroix, devoted mother of John and George and the late Griswold, Willard, Rosemary and Michael. Loving daughter of the late Wesley and Kathryn Renehan Paisley. Cherished grandmother of 15; great grandmother of
 SAYRES-Ruth H., 90, died on Monday, Jan. 6, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. Widow of Philip C. Sayres, she is survived by Barbara S. Williams of Greenwich, Philip C. Sayres, Jr of East Haddam, CT., and 4 grandchildren. A memorial service will be held February 15 at 11:00 AM at The First Congregation
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. Memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial was private.       
 SEXTON-Marjorie McC., January 24, 1997 at the age of 86. Resident of Essex, CT., and formerly of Lakeville, CT. Wife of the late Dorrance Sexton. She is survived by two sons Dorrance Jr. of Sargentville, ME., and David of Rye, New York, and 7 grandchildren. Private services will be held at 
 SIDOR-Edna (Ainbinder) of Armonk, Brooklyn and Queens, NY. Died suddenly on January 23, 1997. She was a joy and treasure who taught by example the fine art of living. She will be forever loved and missed by eight grandchildren, three children, one brother, nieces, nephews, in-laws, neighbor
 WHEATLEY-Virginia Garling, February 17 in Richmond, VA, a longtime resident of Long Island and advocate for retarded children and the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. Surviving are her husband, Dr. George M. Wheatley, and 4 children, Andrew T. Callan, Jr., John G. Callan, Dougl
 WIESEN-Pearl, PhD from the University of Wisconsin (1962), was born in 1918 and died on Jan. 10, 1997. She worked in the legal department of the Schubert Org. and later graduated from the Dramatic Workshop of the New School (1947). She received her BA and MA from Hunter (1957-58). Her disse
 WINKLER-Helen. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a dear friend and staunch supporter with her beloved husband, the late Kalman Winkler, and matriarch of a YU family; mother of Robyn, YU Guardian with her husband, Bruce D. Shoulson-trustee of the affiliated Rabbi Is
 ALLEN-Marguerite (Gracie). In order to accommodate the many friends that Grace has made over her long and fruitful life, the location and date of her memorial service has been changed to St. Bartholomew's Church at 51st Street and Park Ave on Tuesday, February 4 at 2:30pm. Howard P. Milstei
 BECK - Helen. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime member Helen Beck. Her deep devotion to the Jewish heritage will be missed by our synagogue family. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her loving family. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, Pr
 BERGHOLD-Julia D. February 26, 1997. Devoted wife for sixty-four years of William, loving mother of Connie Murray, Billy Berghold and Julie Sykes, mother-in-law of Joanne Berghold & Jamie Sykes, also survived by ten grandchildren and 7 great-granchildren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbe
 BITTKER-Anne S. Of New Haven, Ct., died in her sleep on Feb 2, 1997 at the Connecticut Hospice of Branford, Ct. She graduated from the Horace Mann School for Girls in New York City and Connecticut College for Women. She was active in many New Haven civic and charitable organizations, includ
 HAMLIN-Kate Lincoln. Age 23. Beloved daughter of Suzanne and Ned Hamlin, and sister of Nathaniel. Died at home Feb. 22, 1997. Donations in her memory may be sent to the St. Ann's School Scholarship Fund, Brooklyn, NY.       
 JEWETT-Nancy R. (Tucky). Age 54, of New York City and Lyme, CT., of cancer on February 25, 1997. Wife of Jonathan. Mother of Brooke, Lindsay and Ian. Memorial Service Saturday, March 8th at 11:30AM at Old Lyme Congregational Church, Old Lyme, CT. She was actively involved with the Conservat
 MERSON-Beatrice (Billie), 80 years old, died February 26, 1997two days short of 60th wedding anniversary. Formerly of Bronxville, New York, she recently moved to Goshen, NY. Former proprieter of BAM Liquors of Mt. Vernon, NY, she is survived by husband, Carl, two daughters, Ann Bialek and M
 ORENSTEIN-Sophie. A woman of grace and dignity. Beloved mother of Melvin, David and Michael. Adored mother-in-law of Martha, Jeanie and Barbara. Grandmother of Jeffrey, Richard, Geri, Pamela, Elizabeth, Heather, Sarah and Hope. Great-grandmother of Abraham. Funeral service, Monday, 12:30 PM
 OSSAD-Lillian. Congregation Orach Chaim extends heartfelt condolences to our member Linda Ossad Ellenberg on the passing of her mother, and to her husband Robert Ellenberg, a trustee of our Congregation. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman
 PALAMARA-Sr. Loretta, M.S.C. Executive Administration and the Board of Trustees of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Sr. Loretta. We extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to her mother, Rose Palamara; her sisters, Mickie DiMatteo and Sr. Regina Pa
 SCHIEFFELIN-Annette Markoe. In her 100th year. Memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on January 28 at 11 A.M., in St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue (corner 71st Street). Burial was private.       
 ALTER-Margaret L. (Marge), of Walnut Creek, CA., formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away January 19, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Alfred, loving mother of Caryl Dreiblatt and Donna LaCroix, cherished grandmother of Nicole and Allison LaCroix and Stefanie Dreiblatt, dear mother-in-law of Da
 BARNES-Marjorie V. On January 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Mark Hopkins Barnes. Survived by brother Donald Maulson and several nieces and nephews. Dear friend of Theresa Enni. A grand lady, she will be missed. Interment Grandview Cemetery, Maryville, TN.       
 BERGHOLD-Julia D. The Directors of the Board of Trustees of Freedom Institute extend their deepest sympathy to our President, Connie Murray, and her entire family, as they mourn the death of her dear Mother. Our heartfelt thanks forever to Julia Berghold for her daughter, Connie. Mona Manse
 COHN-Norma. The Auxiliary of North Shore University Hospital mourns the passing of its member and gratefully recognizes her caring commitment to the hospital. She will be sorely missed. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President       
 FRIED-Lenore. Died February 25, 1997. Beloved mother of Jan Fried and Patti Calder. Devoted sister of Gene Lasdon, Peggy Siporin and Babs Dolinger. Adored grandmother and aunt. Private service. Contributions in her memory may be made to New York Public Library, Andrew Heiskell Library for t
 GLENER-Ruth, passed away on Friday, January 24, 1997. Beloved wife of Norman; devoted sister-inlaw and friend. She will be deeply missed. Lyla and Howard Glener       
 GOLDBERG-Judith. On Feb. 26, 1997. Loving daughter of Kenneth & Gladys. Beloved companion of Leonard Stern. Devoted niece of Sheila Strasser. Cherished cousin of Leigh and Terry, Todd and Pamela and their children Lia and Geoffrey Strasser. Treasured friend to many. Noted contemporary art d
 HOVERSTEN-Anne S. Of Lake Forest, IL., died on Tuesday in Boca Grande, FL. She was born in N.Y., Nov. 20, 1914, and grew up in Tuxedo Park and Southampton. She was the daughter of Alice Strong and C. Tiffany Richardson, a founding partner of the investment firm of Auerbach, Pollak & Richard
 JEWETT-Nancy R. (Tucky). Age 54, of New York City and Lyme, CT., of cancer on February 25, 1997. Wife of Jonathan. Mother of Brooke, Lindsay and Ian. Memorial Service on Saturday, March 8th at 11:30 A.M., at Old Lyme Congregational Church, Old Lyme, CT. She was actively involved with the Co
 KAUFMAN-Stella (Brownie). A beautiful, talented and loving woman who enhanced our lives by knowing her. She made a profound impact on us as a caring relative and good friend. We feel blessed to have been given the gift of Brownie's love and friendship. She will be dearly remembered and prof
 LIPPMANN-Rosalie (nee Thalheimer), on February 26, 1997, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Robert L. for 49 years. Devoted mother of Pamela Lippmann Roth and Valerie Lippmann Doran. Loving grandmother of Stacey and Scott Roth. Services, Sunday, March 2, 10:45AM
 LONDON-Ruth. Peacefully died January 26, 1997. Loving mother of Roberta Martell and Sheila Mandell; grandma of Troy, Philip, Elyse and Peter; sister of Shirley Rubinstein and sister-in-law of Martha Walter; and dear aunt, great-aunt, cousin and friend, who fought against injustice and worke
 MILLER-Constance L. on January 25, at home in Oneonta, NY. Cherished by all, she is survived by husband Matthew, sons Grant and Taylor, sister Marilyn Blake of Winter Park, FL and brother James K. Luntz of Canton, OH.       
 NEWHOUSE-Bertha S. I wish to express our faculty's sadness on the occasion of the death of our long time and esteemed colleague, Bertha S. Newhouse. Her illustrious career ending as a Professor of Accounting began in 1946 and lasted until her retirement in 1985. She was the first woman CPA 
 ORENSTEIN-Sophie. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to her family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Jeffrey Scherr, President.       
 PAIEWONSKY-Ethel Heller, on Thursday, February 27, 1997. Loving wife of the late Governor Ralph M. Paiewonsky. Daughter of the late Abraham and Anna Heller. Beloved mother of Dr. Bernard Paiewonsky and Joyce Adolfsen. Cherished grandmother of Adrienne, Betty, Eric and Lauren. Great grandmot
 SCHACTER-Barbara Cameron on January 26, 1997. A beautiful person both inside and out, who touched everyone in her own very special way. A devoted and wonderful friend who will live on not only in my heart, but also in the hearts of all those who knew and loved her. Barbara, I will miss you 
 SCHWARTZ-Rose. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys condolences to her bereaved family. Shira Milgrom, Rabbi Mark A. Hershey, President       
 SERATING-Bettie. The Auxiliary of North Shore University Hospital mourns the passing of its member and gratefully recognizes her caring commitment to the hospital. She will be sorely missed. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President       
 SWARTZ-Belle (nee Heyman), on Feb. 24, 1997 in New York. Buried in Florida with her late husband Alfred M. Swartz; may she find blessings in heaven as on earth. Memorial gifts will be gratefully accepted in her name by the Amsterdam Nursing Home, 1060 Amsterdam Ave., NY, NY, 10025, Attn: Ja
 TAKAKJIAN - BECKMANN - Mary E., age 72 of Boca Raton, FL, died Saturday, Jan. 25, 1997 at Imperial Point Medical Center in Ft. Lauderdale. Mrs. Beckmann was formerly of Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY, where she served 26 years as Executive Secretary with New Court Securities and successor firm, R
 WASHOR-Helen L., on January 26th, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell. Loving mother of Nancy Pierce and Larry Washor. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Nicholas. Dear sister of the late Gertrude Salzman Gordon. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, today, Tuesda
 WOLFSTEIN-Isabel Meta on February 27, 1997, age 95, born in Cincinatti, Ohio. Survived by her niece Ann W. Golden of Rydal, Pennsylvania and nephew Dr. Ralph Wolfstein of Los Angeles, California. Also survived by 4 grand-nieces and nephews and 3 great grandnieces and nephews. Services priva
