 AMES-Ann F. Of New York, NY. Died on November 23, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs. Ames was the wife of the late Irving M. Ames. She is survived by her daughter Susan Ames. Mrs. Ames was awarded a Juris Doctor degree from Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University, a member 
 COVAL-APEL-Dr. Naomi Miller. A noted New York dentist who did pioneering work on tempro-mandibular joint dysfunction and later specialized in orthodontics, died November 24 after a long illness at her home in Glen Cove, Long Island. She was surrounded by her husband, Robert Apel, and her th
 ELKON-Frances. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, a dear friend who was dedicated to the advancement of Jewish education and the medical sciences. She and her late first husband, S. Max, are YU Guardians and Founders of our
 FELDESMAN-Lucille. United Seniors Health Cooperative lost a good friend. Among her many activities, Mrs. Feldesman was a contributor and supporter of the ''Dictionary of Eldercare Terminology'' authored by her husband, Walter Feldesman. It was illness in her family that inspired her husband
 HARRIS-Hilda K. (nee Kaufman), November 28, 2000, wife of the late Irwin J. Sister of Bertha Kirschenbaum, also survived by nieces and nephews. Graveside services will be held Friday 2 PM at Old Montefiore Cemetery, Queens, NY. Contributions in her memory may be made to any mental health ch
 KOEPPEL-Ruth S. Age 91, died peacefully on Thanksgiving, November 23, 2000 at home with her daughter Nancy and grandsons David & Steven in Stuart, Florida. Loving wife of the late Harry Koeppel. Adored mother of Nancy S. Koeppel and the late Robert A. Koeppel. Cherished grandmother of David
 PERKIN-Gladys Talmage. On Tuesday, November 28, 2000, at home in New Canaan, Conn. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation. Born Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage on May 13, 1907, she was the daughter of Mr & Mrs John Frelinghuysen Talmage
 REVILLE-Anna. Died at home in Miami, FL. November 27, 2000 after a long illness. She is survived by three sisters Daly Reville of New York City, Irene Reville of Baltimore, MD & Amy Reville of Cornwall, NY. A funeral service will be held at St. Augustine's Church, Larchmont Ave, Larchmont, 
 STERNBERG-Esther Miriam. The family of Esther Miriam Sternberg grieves in the loss of their mother and friend, Esther Miriam Sternberg. Born October 17, 1923 in Brooklyn, NY to Harry and Anna Rappaport. She taught second grade for the Putnam Valley Elementary School for many years. A long t
 SULLIVAN-Imogen Reeve. Died at age 95, on Monday, November 27th, 2000, after a brief illness. Mrs. Sullivan was born in New York City and graduated from the Spence School. She moved to Quaker Hill in 1958. She was an active member of the Garden Club of America. Mrs. Sullivan was married to 
 ZEITLIN-Clara L. On Nov. 30, 2000 in her 92nd year. Wife of the late Hans. Mother of Eva, Barbara and the late Frank. Loving mother-inlaw of Hans and the late Irv. Omi of Esther, Jenny, Michael and Rebecca, Jonathan and Sarah and six great-grandchildren. We will greatly miss her. Services F
 AMES-Ann F. Of New York, NY. Died on November 23, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs. Ames was the wife of the late Irving M. Ames. She is survived by her daughter Susan Ames. Mrs. Ames was awarded a Juris Doctor degree from Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University, a member 
 HAYES-REITER-Jerilyn. On Nov. 30, Jeri died. She will be sadly missed by her family, Jonathan and daughters Mariel and Sophie, mother-in-law Shirley, and sisterin-law Fran, and relatives and friends. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, December 3rd, at 11:00 AM, at Gramercy Park Memo
 KOEPPEL-Ruth S. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Ruth S. Koeppel. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, Pr
 LERNER-Evelyn. On November 30th, 2000. Beloved wife, mother, sister, aunt, friend. ''Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies...Strength and honour are her clothing...She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness...Many daughters have do
 PANITCH-Ann nee Dechter. On December 1, 2000 in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Panitch. Loving sister of Dr. Mike Dexter & the late Martin Dechter. Sister-in-law to Colette and Helen. Much loved aunt of Warren, Phyllis, Michelle, Steve, Heide and great aunt of Ellen, Tony, K
 ZEITLIN-Clara L. The Board and staff of the YM/YWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood mourn the passing of our honorary director Clara L. Zeitlin. Her efforts on behalf of the agency will be remembered with deep gratitude. Our condolences to the family. Martin G. Englisher, Exec VP Dr. Ruth 
 Dr. Susana Rotker-Martinez, director of the Rutgers Center for Hemispheric Studies, was hit by a truck and fatally injured Monday while crossing a road in Piscataway, N.J. She was 46 and lived in Highland Park. Her husband, Dr. Tomas Eloy Martinez, a fellow faculty member and journa
 BRY-Thea. Beloved wife of the late Gerhard Bry, mother of Ava Bry Penman (of Brookline, Mass.) and the late Peter Bry, grandmother of Deborah Bry, David Bry and Joshua Penman, motherin-law of Brenna Bry and Lewis Lockwood. Died November 29, 2000 at age 89, of cancer. Devoted clinical psycho
 ELKON-Frances. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a loyal friend, who, together with her husband, Max Elkon, was a Chai Founder. The Elkons also endowed a science laboratory and established a major endowment to provide scholarship assistance to deserving and needy students. Max's aff
 FIELD-Ruth Leavitt, 88. Of Bay Harbor Island, Florida. She passed away peacefully in her sleep on the morning of December 1, 2000. She was a native of Boston and lived formerly in Washington, DC. Beloved wife of Maxwell Field and loving mother of daughter Sally Patkin of Needham, MA., and s
 GLIXMAN-Fanny. Beloved wife of the late Howard; dear companion of the late William Beham. Lovely, courageous and already missed by her dozens of friends and teaching colleagues, and most deeply of all by D., E., S. and their families.       
 HAUSER-Elizabeth Hoppin, Ph.D. Died at home on November 30, 2000, at age 65. Beloved mother of Mary Eliza Engelbrecht, devoted grandmother of John William Engelbrecht. Having earned her doctorate from Columbia University, Dr. Hauser was a psychotherapist in private practice in NYC for over 
 HAYES-REITER-Jerilyn. On Nov. 30, Jeri died. She will be sadly missed by her family, Jonathan and daughters Mariel and Sophie, mother-in-law Shirley, and sisterin-law Fran, and relatives and friends. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, December 3rd, at 11:00 AM, at Gramercy Park Memo
 KATZEV-Blanche Schwamm. On November 30, 2000 at age 86. Beloved mother of Henrietta and Beth. Dear sister of the late Frances, Gustave, Sidney and Camille. A very special, kind and loving person who will be missed by all who knew her.       
 KLEIMAN-May. On November 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving sister of Lawrence and Peggy Sakow and the late Ethel Sakow. Dear aunt of Abigail, Aaron and Jesse Marcus. Service private. Contributions in her memory to ORT.       
 KOEPPEL-Ruth S. Age 91, died peacefully on Thanksgiving, November 23, 2000 at home with her daughter Nancy and grandsons David & Steven in Stuart, Florida. Loving wife of the late Harry Koeppel. Adored mother of Nancy S. Koeppel and the late Robert A. Koeppel. Cherished grandmother of David
 KRONE-Irene (nee Beckmann). Beloved mother of Kathryn and wife of the late Helmut Krone. Died suddenly in a traffic accident in Martinique, Wednesday, November 29, 2000. A memorial service will be held Thursday, December 7, 2000 at 1pm at The Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 73rd St. D
 McKNIGHT-Eline Holst. 90, woodcut printmaker, died Thursday from cancer at a nursing home in Meadow Lakes, New Jersey. She was born of Dutch parents in Yokohama, Japan, in 1910, and educated in Japan, Holland, and the United States. She was a resident of Scarsdale, NY, and New York City for
 PERKIN-Gladys Talmage. On Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2000, at home in New Canaan, CT. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the PerkinElmer Corporation. Born Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage on May 13, 1907, she was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Frelinghuysen Talmage, o
 RICH-Benita. Died peacefully on December 1, 2000 after a long battle against breast cancer. Beloved mother of Jeffrey (Olivia), Marc (Debra), and Lisa Singer (Richard). Adoring grandmother of Wyatt, Blake, Mackenzie, Jackson, Alec and Kelly. Cherished sister of Barbara Levine (Richard) and 
 ROSENFELD-Dorothy (nee Cohen), November 19. Adored mother of Marcia. Devoted wife of the late Arthur of the New York Post. Loving aunt of Gina Reder. To know her was to love her.       
 SIMON-Anne, 73. On November 12th, 2000. She was a lifelong resident of Manhattan. She was retired from the YWCA, where she was employed in the Human Resources Department. She is survived by her sisters, Martha Simon and Helen Ben-Kori. A memorial service will be held on December 7, 2000, at
 STEWART-Margot, on November 27, 2000, in NYC. Loving mother of Brandon, dearest sister of Gerda Loffler and Gunther Endres. Born June 24, 1927, in Nuremberg, Germany. Painter, mosaic muralist and charter student of the Norfolk School of Art of Yale University. She had numerous shows, includ
 WHITNEY-Lisa Lentnek. Of Dobbs Ferry, NY, at age 35. Beloved wife of Klaus and loving mother of Matthew, age seven, and Steven, age five. Lisa was the daughter of Donald and Ruth Lentnek of Woodmere, NY, and sister of David and Marci Klein and their daughter Ayana. Lisa was a graduate of La
 Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. ''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said. ''I li
 FAGAN-Sharon E. (nee Cone). Age 40, of Ridgefield, CT, formerly of NYC. Survived by her husband Robert O'Sullivan Fagan, three children, Robert O. Fagan, Patrick A. Fagan and Sharon E. Fagan, all of Ridgefield, her mother, Dorothy (nee Rogers) Cone of Ridgefield, a brother, Norman Cone III 
 GAINES-Marcia Ann. Died peacefully at her home in East Setauket, LI, on December 2, 2000. She now joins her beloved late husband Jay. She was born in Brooklyn, 1927. A graduate of Pembroke College (Brown University). Loving mother of Mark, Andrea, Jeffrey and Noel, grandchildren Julia and A
 HAUSER-Elizabeth Hoppin, Ph.D. Died at home on November 30, 2000, at age 65. Beloved mother of Mary Eliza Engelbrecht, devoted grandmother of John William Engelbrecht. Having earned her doctorate from Columbia University, Dr. Hauser was a psychotherapist in private practice in NYC for over 
 KINSMAN-Linda Ann (nee Nicotra). 38, of Ridgefield, CT, formerly of Courtland Manor, NY. Former customer service supervisor for Con Edison. Bronx, NY, native and graduate of Cardinal Spellman High School and Fordham University, and MBA candidate at Mercy College. Survived by her husband, Ed
 KRONE-Irene (nee Beckmann). Beloved mother of Kathryn and wife of the late Helmut Krone. Died suddenly in a traffic accident in Martinique, Wednesday, November 29, 2000. A memorial service will be held Thursday, December 7, 2000 at 1pm at The Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 73rd St. D
 KUHNS-Faith Hallock Colgan. Age 80. Died at her home in Blue Hill, ME. on Thursday, November 30, 2000 of congestive heart failure. Mrs. Kuhns had been a long time resident of Dayton, OH. and also of Palos Verdes, CA. Mrs. Kuhns was a member of the Junior League and also of The Garden Club o
 LAMBERT-Marjorie R. 76, of Niantic, CT, formerly of New York City, died December 1, 2000, in Waterford, CT. She was the wife of the late Dr. John T. Lambert. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, on December 9, 2000, at St. John's Episcopal Church, Niantic, CT. Memorial donations may be
 REITER-Jerilyn (Hayes). Tragically struck down too early in life. Daughter of the late Sylvia and Jesse Hayes, sister of Leigh and Donald. Cherished and loving mother. She will be missed by all. Pat and Don       
 SCHWEITZER-Dorothy H. December 15, 1905-December 3, 2000. Loving wife of the late Jerome M. Schweitzer. Mother of Jerome and Robert. Grandmother of Daniel, Eric, Karin, Kenneth and Robert. Great-grandmother of Alexa, Forest, Julia and Sierra. Mother-in-law of Lone and Rosa. Grandmother-in-l
 TATTELBAUM-Pauline. The entire congregation of Temple Shaaray Tefila notes with profound sorrow the loss of Pauline Tattelbaum, beloved mother of our esteemed Rabbi, Harvey M. Tattelbaum. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Rabbi Tattelbaum, Meryl, Adam and Nancy, Polly and Gordon, Kate and
 ZINBARG-Esther M. Of New Milford, NJ, formerly of Manhattan, died on December 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving Payson Zinbarg. Devoted mother of Eugene D. (Roberta) and Steven (Nitza). Loving grandmother of Jeffrey, Richard, Robert and Trisha and great-grandmother of five. Services 
 CHESSARE-Nancy. Passed on 7/1/2000. Beloved sister of Mary Polk of Spring Valley and Rose Chessare Becker of Manhattan. A Memorial Mass in her memory will be celebrated at St. Malachy's Church, 239 West 49th Street, NYC, December 4, at 5 PM       
 Eloise Jarvis McGraw, author of ''The Moorchild,'' a 1996 Newbery Honor book, and other novels for children, died on Thursday in Portland, Ore. She was 84 and lived in Oswego Lake, Ore. Mrs. McGraw began writing at the age of 8, shortly after her family moved from Houston, where she
 Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. ''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said. ''I li
 Irene Krone, who founded I. Krone Associates, a product-consulting firm, and co-founded Stop Traffic Offenses Program, or STOP, a traffic-safety advocacy group, died on Wednesday in a car crash while vacationing on Martinique. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.        
 CONVISSOR-Carole. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the passing of Carole Convissor, one of the most respected and cherished members of our community. A member of the School's administrative staff since 1982, as Director of Special Projects, she lovingly developed numerous special events t
 FURMAN-Mathilda, 84, on December 3, 2000. Loving wife of the late William and mother of Roger. A biochemist and, upon retirement, founder of the KRMH Food and Hunger Project. She was a fighter until the end. Services at Williams Funeral Home, 5628 Broadway at 232 Street, Bronx, December 6 a
 JUNGREISZ-Rebbetzin Miriam. Revered mother of esteemed Rebbetzin Esther Jungries, founder of Hineni organization. Known to all as ''Mama'', her smile, her love, and great caring acts of chesed will be missed not only by her beloved children, grandchildren and great grandchildren but by thou
 RAPOPORT-Estelle. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Marian. Loving sister of Milton and Arnold Fuchs. Service Wednesday 10:00 AM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Rd., Great Neck. RAPOPORT - Estelle. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its l
 WHITNEY-Lisa Lentnek. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of NY mourn the untimely passing of Lisa Lentnek Whitney whose parents, Donald and Ruth Lentnek, have been our dedicated supporters for many years. Her commitment to those in need was as passionate as her devotion to her family,
 WOLFE-Sybil P., 57, of Pomona, NY, passed away on November 29. Beloved by all, ''Tibby'' is survived by husband Herb Wolfe, sons Alden and George Wolfe, brother Stephen Teitler and sister Rosalyn Radin. An immensely talented sculptor and designer, Sybil eagerly shared her artistic gifts wit
 A memorial service for Lucia Dlugoszewski, the composer and choreographer who died in April at the age of 68, will be held on Friday at 3 p.m. at the John Jay College Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 59th Street, Manhattan. The service, which is open to the public, is to feature perform
 Emily Wilkens, an award-winning fashion designer who rejected the idea that young girls should be dressed as if they were their mothers in miniature, died in the Bronx on Saturday. She was 83. Beginning in the early 1940's and drawing on references as diverse as Russian peasant dres
 CONVISSOR-Carole. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the passing of Carole Convissor, one of the most respected and cherished members of our community. A member of the School's administrative staff since 1982, as Director of Special Projects, she lovingly developed numerous special events t
 HENSCHEL-Rose. Age 84, formerly of Hackensack, NJ, and Lake Wales, FL, and most recently of Sewickley, PA. Beloved wife of Alvin Henschel & their daughter Josette (Henschel) Ludwig of MA, and her children, Loren and Tobin, sister of Paula Schneider of NJ. No visitation. Memorial service Thu
 HYMAN-Frances. Beloved wife of Leon for 64 years. Devoted mother of Michael and Arleen, Gale and Arthur Wiener, Rose and Lewis Smith. Cherished grandmother of Larry & Sheri Hyman, Tracey Wiener, Robin and Ric Davidovich, Jill and Andy Osofsky, Glenn and Jan Wiener, and Todd and Adam Smith. 
 MacNAIR-Margaret Prichitt, 87. Of Devon, PA, on November 26. Raised in NYC, she attended Brearley and Parsons, became an interior designer, artist and antique dealer. Married to the late Pierce MacNair, she leaves four children-Victoria Todd, Andrew MacNair, Dora Smith and Caroline MacNair,
 MILLER-Lisa C. Age 32. Died December 1 at her home in NYC. She was as Associate with Jerusalem Venture Partners, a venture capital firm specializing in high technology. She earned a Masters Degree in Public Policy from Columbia University in 1995 after receiving her BA with honors in Politi
 MULHERN-Mary Elizabeth Furer. Died on December 5, 2000. Mary was born and raised in Brooklyn, married in 1966, had a daughter Gannon in 1976 and became a Senior Vice President of First Union Corp., in 1996. She was diagnosed with stage four ovarian cancer in December 1993. Mary was a woman 
 FREEMAN-Melissa Hunt Clark. Age 55, of 215 East Orange Street, Lancaster, formerly of Manhasset, NY, died Monday at Johns Hopkins Hospital after a lengthy illness. She was the former wife of James L. Freeman. Born in Schenectady, NY to the late Jack Andrew Clark and Justine Hunt Clark of Sa
 KRONE-Irene (nee Beckmann). Beloved mother of Kathryn and wife of the late Helmut Krone. Died suddenly in a traffic accident in Martinique, on Wednesday, November 29, 2000. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at 1 P.M., at The Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 
 KUTIK-Ruth Berliner. Of Ridgewood, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn NY, died December 6 at the age of 93. Wife of the late Henry, cherished mother of Marcia Frifield & Sylvia Sapir, beloved mother-inlaw of Don Frifield and Dr. Paul E. Sapir, dear grandmother of Ann Hotez, Julia and David Frifield, 
 MULHERN-Mary Elizabeth Furer. Died on December 5, 2000. Mary was born and raised in Brooklyn, married in 1966, had a daughter Gannon in 1976 and became a Senior Vice President of First Union Corp., in 1996. She was diagnosed with stage four ovarian cancer in December 1993. Mary was a woman 
 PRESSEL - Rosa. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 RANSOHOFF-Babette, Age 96 in Stamford, CT. on November 25, 2000. Former Republican National Committeewoman, she was active in Republican politics for over 60 years, having managed numerous congressional, senatorial and gubernatorial campaigns as well as chairing President Eisenhower's campa
 RUBENSTEIN-Elaine Freedman. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the passing of Elaine Freedman Rubenstein, the mother of Joshua S. Rubenstein, our devoted Vice President and Co-Chairman of our Community Services Divisional Committee
 VAZQUEZ-Gail A., age 57, of Jupiter, FL and formerly of Island Park, NY, went to her heavenly rest on Tuesday, December 5th. Gail is survived and will be lovingly remembered by her husband, William, daughter Andrea, stepsons William M. and Jeffrey, sister Linda, and brothers John and Lawren
 WILKENS-Emily. The Trustees, administration, faculty and staff of the Fashion Institute of Technology acknowledge with sadness the death of Emily Wilkens, Trustee Emerita of FIT's board. Her contributions to the growth and development of FIT will always be appreciated. We extend sincerest c
 GOLDWYN-Rose. Beloved mother of Bruce and Teena. Loving mother-in-law of Sandy and Stanley, adoring grandmother of Elan, Ariel and Jamie. She will be missed by all of us who loved her. Henia and Al Pilchik and the Menche family       
 PFEFFER-Hope Turkel, formerly of New York City and Scarsdale, NY, Norwalk and Fairfield, CT, passed away in Palm Beach, FL on December 3rd. She was retired from Saks Fifth Avenue, Palm Beach, and was previously employed at Razook's in Southport and Martha West in New Canaan. She was the lov
 POLEMIS-Nausicaa E. On December 4, 2000, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Augustus S. Polemis. Mother of Spiros A. Polemis, Michael A. Polemis and Cynthia N. Wells. Grandmother of six. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Central Park Conservancy.       
 PRESSEL-Rosa. The Sisterhood of the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue mourns the loss of our devoted and generous Board Member and extends condolences to her family. Irma Lopes Cardozo Carla S. Schein, Presidium       
 SEDGWICK-Marian Parker of Suffern, New York, died on Friday, December 1st, after a short illness. Ms. Sedgwick, nee Parker, was born in Charleston, West Virginia, on July 4th, 1920. She grew up in Roanoke, Virginia, and attended Swarthmore College, from which she graduated in 1941. For many
 WAXMAN-Elsie. The Trustees and Staff of the Greater New York Chapter of the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America are deeply saddened by the passing of the mother of our esteemed Executive Director, Joan Telley. Our heartfelt condolences to Joan, her sister Susan, brother-in-law Allen, 
 ZELMANOWICZ-Dr. Emma. The officers, staff and leadership of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the death of Emma Zelmanowicz, wife of our Executive Committee member, Motl Zelmanowicz, and daughter of our past Executive Secretary, Jacob Pat. Heartfelt condolences to all of her
 ABRAMS-Judith. Loving mother of Baruch Spier. Dear sister of Matthew Abrams. Cherished friend to so many who will greatly miss her. Service Sunday, 10 AM, ''Plaza Memorial Chapel,'' 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HERMAN-Barbara. On December 7, 2000. Beloved wife of Jerome, loving mother of Stephanie, dear sister of Leonard, adoring grandmother of Kera. She is profoundly missed. Service Monday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 McDOWELL - Lillian Kober. Macy's Department Store Manager for 50 years. Died on December 7 in her 94th year, formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late Merritt D. McDowell. Survived by her sister, Doris Flood. Visiting Sunday 2-5 and 7-9:30PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 2
 PRESSEL-Rosa (nee Himmelblau). Passed away Wednesday, December 6, 2000 at the age of 101. Rosa, devoted wife of the late Adolphe Pressel, was born in Belgium & came to the United States in 1939 where she settled in New York City and became an active supporter of several community and charit
 WAXMAN-Elsie. We are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Elsie Waxman, beloved mother of our dear friend Joan Telley, Executive Director of the CCFA NY Chapter. Our heartfelt sympathy to Joan, her sister Susan and the entire family. The Modell Family Shelby and Bill, Leslie Michael and
 Jane Troxell Stark, a dealer in exotic fabrics and jewelry who was a fashion editor for magazines including Glamour, died last Saturday outside Mexico City. She was 86 and lived in Alexandria, Va., and San Miguel, Mexico. Mrs. Stark honed her sense of fashion in the college shop at 
 Marvel Jackson Cooke, who has been described as the first black woman to work for a white-owned mainstream newspaper, died on Nov. 29 in Manhattan. She was 99 and was a longtime resident of Sugar Hill, Harlem. Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Ma
 ABRAMS-Judith. Loving mother of Baruch Spier. Dear sister of Matthew Abrams. Cherished friend to so many who will greatly miss her. Service Sunday, 10 AM, ''Plaza Memorial Chapel,'' 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 BIEDERMAN-Olga Nova (nee Spolane). Beloved wife of the late Martin Biederman, M.D. Loving mother of Ruth (Waltuch Jonas) of Norwalk, CT. Died November 25, 2000, at age 95. She also leaves nieces and nephews, grand and great-grand nieces and nephews. She will be missed.       
 CONVISSOR-Carole. On behalf of the Trustees and staff of The Marilyn Horne Foundation, I wish to express our deep sorrow at the passing of Carole Convissor. As Director of Special Projects at The Juilliard School, she was a good friend to us, assisting in immeasurable ways in our collaborat
 FRANKLE-Jean. Died peacefully on December 9, 2000. A former teacher and guidance counselor at Fort Hamilton High School in Brooklyn, she resided in Jamesburg, NJ, and was involved with the Deborah Hospital Foundation and the Rossmoor Arts and Crafts Association. Her late husband, Max H. Fra
 HALPERT - Catherine (Winn). Passed away in her sleep December 5, 2000 of pneumonia, at age 97 after a long and fullfilling life. Beloved mother of Edward Halpert and Bernard Halpert (deceased), grandmother of Jim and David Halpert, and great-grandmother of Sam Halpert. Born in Chicago in 19
 HERMAN-Barbara. On December 7, 2000. Beloved wife of Jerome, loving mother of Stephanie, dear sister of Leonard, adoring grandmother of Kera. She is profoundly missed. Service Monday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HIRSCH-Elaine Faye. Died on November 17, 2000. She is survived by her sister Diana Greif, niece Nina Greif Bernstein and husband Artie, nephew Jay Grife and wife Donna and five grandnieces and nephews, Kerri & Ryan Bernstein and Michael and Chelsea Grife and Jessica Ryan. Elaine was an empl
 MOORE-Mable Godwin. Beloved mother of Margaret Hubbard, died on November 28, 2000 at St. Luke's Hospital in New York after a brief illness. Mable was born in Suffolk, VA on November 23, 1913. As a jazz singer/pianist Mable worked in Harlem clubs in the '30's and performed with the USO durin
 POLEMIS-Nausicaa E. On December 4, 2000, peacefully at home. Wife of the late Augustus S. Polemis. Mother of Spiros A. Polemis, Michael A. Polemis and Cynthia N. Wells. Grandmother of six. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Central Park Conservancy.       
 PORTO-Daisy M. Our mother's valiant struggle against lung cancer came to a peaceful end on November 29, 2000. To her children Emilie O'Sullivan and Ben E. Porto, she bequeaths a legacy of a passionate love of life and a commitment never to acknowledge the threat of defeat. To the treasures 
 RAME-Piry. Of Roslyn Heights, NY, died on December 8, 2000. Born in Czechoslovakia 1920. Came to US, Christmas Eve, 1934. An accomplished artist, who will live on in our hearts and in her glorious paintings. Widow of Jack Rame, mother of Rochelle Friedman, Marlyn Dorkin and Elyse Beyer. Bel
 STERNBERGH-Caribel Finger, 89, of Washington, DC, passed away at Arleigh Burke Pavilion, McLean, VA, Dec. 1, 2000. Born in Gainesville, GA, she earned B.S.C. and L.L.B. degrees from the Univ. of Georgia. One of the first women attorneys in Georgia, she served on the Governor's staff before 
 STEVENS-Carol J. Of New York City and East Hampton. Died on December 5 in New York-Cornell Hospital of ALS. Carol was a warm, insightful, giving person and a source of strength and support to her many friends. These traits also pervaded her professional life. After receiving an M.A. in educ
 SUSSMAN-Annette. Beloved of Alexander. Sister of Blanche Miller. Loving mother of Susan and Robert Leffler, Willa Peterson, Ellen and Joseph Sebag. Loving grandmother of Jennifer Leffler Ives, Melanie Melillo, Sarah and Dan Peterson, Rivkah and Avital Sebag, and proud great-grandmother of B
 WEISSMAN-Eva (Horn). On December 7, 2000. Loving wife of Hal and the late Max Horn. Devoted mother to Carol, Susan and Robert. Cherished grandmother of Nancy, Marci and Max. Adoring great-grandmother of Samantha. Services on Sunday, December 10, at 12 PM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 We
 WINTERS-Jean C. A resident of Quoque, LI, died in her home on December 1, 2000. Mrs. Winters was born in Boone, IA, the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Harry Vernon Flamhaft. She graduated from the Berkley Institute. After a career in the performing arts, both as a stage actress and a concert pian
 WOLFSON-Doris. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Doris Wolfson. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, Presi
 HEARN-Pat. Friends and family of art dealer Pat Hearn will gather for a memorial service in her honor at 2:30PM on Thurs., Dec. 14 at St. Marks Church in the Bowery, 131 E. 10 St at 2nd Ave. For info call 212-727-7366       
 Pat Kauffman, whose blindness inspired her to help thousands of other blind people attend theatrical performances at no cost and with no fuss, died on Nov. 24 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 76. Ms. Kauffman's sense of mission began with an embarrassing experience at the thea
 Gisela Kahn Gresser, a pioneer in women's chess and a nine-time national champion, died Dec. 4 in her Manhattan home. She was 94. Mrs. Gresser, who was born in 1906 in Detroit, taught herself to play chess using a book a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939. She was
 BABITS-Rose. 89. Loving wife, mother, teacher, activist, avid reader, died of pneumonia December 9, 2000. She is survived by three of her children, Jane, Marty, Olivia Trudy, and her sister, Florence. Service Tuesday, 11 AM, at 352 E. 87th St.       
 EISENBERG - Anne Nelson. Passed away on December 9, 2000, following a life of accomplishment, purpose and loving commitment to family, friends and community. Lifelong resident of Mount Vernon, NY. Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Syracuse University, '36. Second in her class at Brooklyn Law Schoo
 MARGOLIS-Gladys Belinker (nee Haber). On December 1, 2000, at the age of 92. Beloved mother of Dr. Robert Margolis (Barbara) and Barbara Sheerin (Ray). Loving grandmother of Lisa Melartin (Jussi), Michael Waitzman, Dr. Jennifer Fryer (Dr. Eric) and Steven Margolis (Jenifer). Adoring great-g
 REGLER-Margaret Paul. Of NYC and Tepoztlan, Mexico, age 96, at home in Manhattan. Widow of Gustav Regler, noted German author and veteran of the Spanish Civil War. A founder in 1933 of the Miquon School, Miquon, PA, and co-author in 1997 of the primary source textbook ''Uneasy Neighbors-Cub
 ROTH-Hannah. On December 7, 2000, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Isidor Roth. Dear mother of Morris (Marcia) and Sally (Jack) Ballan. Adored grandmother of Jonathan, Harry, Jessica, Carolyn, and great-grandmother. She will be greatly missed. Services were held Friday, December 8
 STRAUSS-Harriet (nee Joseph). Passed away December 9, 2000, at the age of 83. Beloved mother of Bernard, Arthur, Fran and Emanuel. Wife of the late Isidore. Loving grandmother of Samantha, Josh, Darin, Tracey, Jacob, Phillip and Sasha. Sister of Charlotte and Charles. A woman whose intellig
 BERKMAN-Alice Barrasch. On Dec. 11, 2000, in her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late I. George Berkman. Survived by her children Barry, Andrew and Deborah and their life partner and spouses Tina Kazan, Kathy Berkman and Joel Levine. Also survived by her six grandchildren Tony, Elise, Emily 
 GORDON-Betty. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member Betty Gordon. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband Herman and family. Rabbi Alan Lucas Rose Schecter, President       
 POPKIN-Anne. On December 11, 2000. Adored wife of the late George. Beloved mother of Susan Wadsworth and Lenny Popkin, and grandmother of Rebecca Diallo. Dear sister of the late Dorothy Longman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday 11:30 AM. Contributions in
 PORTO-Daisy M. Our mother's valiant struggle against lung cancer came to a peaceful end on November 29, 2000. To her children Emilie O'Sullivan and Ben E. Porto, she bequeaths a legacy of a passionate love of life and a commitment never to acknowledge the threat of defeat. To the treasures 
 VILLARD-Katharine T. On December 6th, 2000, of New York City, N.Y. Mrs. Villard was born at Seagate, N.Y. on August 18, 1904. She was preceded in death by her husband the late Vincent Serrano Villard, Sr., and a son Vincent Serrano Villard, Jr. She was the daughter of Calvin Tomkins, former
 WINN-Catherine. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum, Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President       
 Teresa Sterne, a pioneering producer of classical recordings, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Musi
 APPEL-Belle. Adoring wife of the late Dick. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Albert, Robert, Irena and Robin. Tender and devoted grandmother of Elliott, Alex and Nikki. Always cheerful, always helpful to all her family and friends. She will be missed dearly.       
 BERKMAN-Alice Barrasch. On Dec. 11, 2000, in her 90th year. Beloved wife of the late I. George Berkman. Survived by her children Barry, Andrew and Deborah and their life partner and spouses Tina Kazan, Kathy Berkman and Joel Levine. Also survived by her six grandchildren Tony, Elise, Emily 
 BERNS-Suzanne Marie. December 12, 2000. Wife of H. Jerome (Jerry) Berns, (Associate of the 21 Club New York City). Stepmother of Cecily Rosenthal. Sister of Hansi Karacz and Francis Tanzer. Step-grandmother and step-great grandmother. She will be deeply missed by her family and numerous fri
 BLUMENSON-Claudette Teller. Died December 5, 2000 at the age of 66. Beloved wife of Robert. Loving mother of Andrea Goldberg, David Blumenson and Lisa Donofrio. Mother-in-law of Marc Goldberg, Dorene Blumenson and Al Donofrio. Grandmother of Malka Goldberg, Andrew Blumenson, Mitchell and Ja
 COHEN-Abigail. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the sudden and untimely death of Abigail Cohen, beloved daughter of devoted JTS board member Betsy Z. Cohen and her husband, Edward. A sensitive, artistic soul, Abigail found life's meaning through the lens of a camera and by h
 FINESILVER - Mollie (nee Schmith). Formerly of New York. On December 11, 2000. Wife of the late Moses. Mother of Susan (Leonard) Packel. Sister of Dorothea Raitzin of Mamaroneck. Grandmother of David and Daniel Packel. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services on Wednesday 12:30
 GANGONE-Paula M. (Cucinello), 69, of Ramsey, N.J. formerly of Monsey, N.Y. on December 11, 2000. Beloved wife of Joseph A. for 45 years. Loving mother of Joe D. Gangone of Mahwah, N.J., Yvonne Ingui of Sugarloaf, N.Y., Paul Gangone of Suffern, N.Y. and the late Stephen Gangone (1981). Devot
 GORDON-Betty. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member Betty Gordon. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband Herman and family. Rabbi Alan Lucas Rose Schecter, President       
 MARTIN-Ruth Kelley. Died December 11, 2000. Widow of Thomas. Mother of Mary-Anne, Susanna, Charles and Colette. We will miss her always. Visitation Wednesday and Thursday, 4-9pm, Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14th St., NY, NY. Funeral Mass Friday 10am, December 15th, St. Bernard's Church 330 
 POPKIN-Anne. On December 11, 2000. Adored wife of the late George. Beloved mother of Susan Wadsworth and Lenny Popkin, & beloved grandmother of Rebecca Diallo. Cherished sister of the late Dorothy Longman. Services are today, Wednesday, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 
 PORTO-Daisy M. Our mother's valiant struggle against lung cancer came to a peaceful end on November 29, 2000. To her children Emilie O'Sullivan and Ben E. Porto, she bequeaths a legacy of a passionate love of life and a commitment never to acknowledge the threat of defeat. To the treasures 
 SCHLESINGER-Marie, age 90, dear mother of Ronnie Jane Levin of Williamstown MA, Barbara Judith Paul of Westport CT and Benjamin Schlesinger of Bethesda, MD. Grandmother of Deborah Paul, Andrew Levin, Arthur Paul, Kimberly Levin, Tamara Levin, Holly Schlesinger and Jonathan Schlesinger. Lovi
 VILLARD-Katharine T. On December 6th, 2000, of New York City, N.Y. Mrs. Villard was born at Seagate, N.Y. on August 18, 1904. She was preceded in death by her husband the late Vincent Serrano Villard, Sr., and a son Vincent Serrano Villard, Jr. She was the daughter of Calvin Tomkins, former
 WINN-Catherine. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her entire family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum, Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President       
 Marie Windsor, who played sassy femmes fatales, cynical bawdyhouse matrons and two-timing crooks in 74 movies with enough verve to win the informal accolade ''Queen of the B's,'' died on Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80. Acting opposite male stars like Marlon B
 ABRAMSON-Jane Lewis. On December 12, 2000; wife of Ephraim M. Abramson. Mother of Linda Raff and James Abramson. Sister of Philip M. Lewis, II. Grandmother of Andrew and Marisa Raff and Alexander Abramson. Interment at Hunter Synagogue Cemetery, Hunter, NY, on Friday, December 15th at noon.
 BRUST-Charlotte (Ruderman) on Wednesday, Dec. 13. Beloved wife of Frank. Adored mother (Muv) of Jim (Kris) and Ronni Soled (Stephen). Cherished gramdma of Scott (Suzanne), Jeremy, & Alyssa Brust, and Amanda Soled. Sister of Harriet Crain. Charlotte will be greatly missed by all whose lives 
 GANGONE-Paula M. (Cucinello), 69, of Ramsey, N.J. formerly of Monsey, N.Y. on December 11, 2000. Beloved wife of Joseph A. for 49 years. Loving mother of Joe D. Gangone of Mahwah, N.J., Yvonne Ingui of Sugarloaf, N.Y., Paul Stephen Gangone of Suffern, N.Y. and the late Stephen Gangone (1981
 GORTCHACOW - Princess Con stantin nee Marie Wyrouboff. On December 8, in Paris, France in her 89th year.       
 IREYS-Alice Recknagel. On December 12 in her 90th year. Wife of the late Henry Ireys. Survived by her sister Catherine Ropes, her children Cathie, Anne and Henry and five grandsons. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Memorial service on December 21, at
 MARTIN-Ruth Kelley. Died December 11, 2000. Widow of Thomas. Mother of Mary-Anne, Susanna, Charles and Colette. We will miss her always. Visitation Wednesday and Thursday, 4-9pm, Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14th St., NY, NY. Funeral Mass Friday 10am, December 15th, St. Bernard's Church 330 
 POPKIN-Anne. On December 11, 2000. Adored wife of the late George. Beloved mother of Susan Wadsworth and Lenny Popkin, & beloved grandmother of Rebecca Diallo and Anna Rose Popkin. Cherished sister of the late Dorothy Longman. Services are today, Wednesday, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 ALTKRUG-Leah J. On December 14, 2000 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Louis Altkrug and the late Major Isaac Brimberg, loving mother of Barbara Wiener and Dr. Arthur Brimberg and mohter-inlaw of Irving Wiener and Marilyn Brimberg. Adoring grandmother of Jonathan, Julie and Davis. Dearest
 BERGER-Rosalind. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Rosalind Berger. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, P
 BRUST-Charlotte (Ruderman) on Wednesday, Dec. 13. Beloved wife of Frank. Adored mother (Muv) of Jim (Kris) and Ronni Soled (Stephen). Cherished gramdma of Scott (Suzanne), Jeremy, & Alyssa Brust, and Amanda Soled. Sister of Harriet Crain. Charlotte will be greatly missed by all whose lives 
 CALLAGHAN-Theresa M. (nee Rothwell) on Wednesday, December 13, 2000 of Wayne, NJ. Beloved wife of the late John E. (1981). Beloved mother of Edward, Eugene and John Callaghan and Theresa Lamberski. She filled the lives of her family and friends with joy. Funeral Mass Saturday 9:30 AM, Holy 
 FREMONT-Nora nee Michel of New York City and Alace-Lorraine. Died suddenly November 26 at the age of 86. Beloved mother of Maureen Judith and the longterm first wife of the late Rudolph Eric. We will honor her at Crescent Memorial. For date and time call 212-431-6712.       
 GAILMOR-Elaine, 84. Of Westport, Connecticut, died December 2, in Florida. An Honors graduate in sociology at NYU she served many years as the Administrator of the Miquon School, an innovative, progressive private elementary school in Miquon, PA. A tireless crusader for peace and human righ
 HERSELLE - Jane Gartman. March 12, 1903-December 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David, adored mother of Carol Krinsky and husband Robert D. Krinsky, dearest grandmother to Alice, John, and Keren Osman, greatgrandmother to Maya OsmanKrinsky. Mourned also by brotherin-law, Martin Cherry. 
 MALLAY-Elizabeth Anne. On December 13th, 2000. She is survived by Mary Katherine Hawryluk (Richard) and her two children, David and Kevin. Funeral will be held Monday, December 18th at Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul, 18th and The Parkway, Philadelphia. Viewing 9-10 AM. Mass of Christian Bu
 SCHULTE-Lily Carlson. December 14, 2000. Beloved wife of David A. Schulte. Devoted mother of Holly Schulte Ellison, Christina Fleur and William Dowell. Cherished grandmother of Claire Ellison, Matthew Dowell, Eric Lewenstein and Scott Stevens. She was the first model of the Ford Model Agenc
 STERNE-Theresa. The Friends of Joseph Braunstein mourn the passing of our colleague Tracey Sterne. A visionary light in the music world has gone out but her legacy of beautiful recordings remains. LaVonne and Harris Poor, Nancy Barry, Tom and Lynne Frost, Sylvia Gardner-Wittgenstein, Tom Mo
 WEISS-Harriet. On Dec. 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Susan and Dr. Norman Sonnenklar and Bette and Dr. Richard Weledniger. Cherished grandmother of Alan, Eric, Risa and Leslie and great grandmother of Jacob and Adam. We love you and thank you for all of our shared memor
 BERGER-Rosalind. It is with sadness that we note the passing of Rosalind Berger. Our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Laura Slatkin, her son-in-law Harry Slatkin and to the rest of the family. The Board and Staff of Henry Street Settlement       
 EASTMOND-Christine. The Board of Directors and Staff of Sanctuary for Families mourn the passing of the mother of our Executive Director, Carolyn Nash. We offer our deepest sympathy to Carolyn, her husband Doug and their daughter Jennifer. Mary Ann Mailman, President Sanctuary for Families 
 HENNEMAN-Esther Gracie. Of Buckingham County, Virginia and formerly of New York City, died December 14, 2000 at age 93. The widow of John B. Henneman and mother of the late John B. Henneman Jr. She is survived by a son Edward O. Henneman, two sisters Margaret Ogden and Athalia Barker, a bro
 SLADE-Carlyle Lind. She was adored by her husband, Jarvis, and their three children, Shelley, Georgiana and Jarvis; an outstanding interior deisgner, very accomplished horse woman, lover of animals and Director of ARF, loved by her sons-in-law and daughter-in-law, Mark, David and Carmen, he
 SUSSBERG-Carol. On Dec. 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Darwin Sussberg. Mother of Milton, Ronald and Lawrence. Mother-inlaw of Linda and Barbara. Grandmother of Matthew, Jordan and Samantha. Graveside service Sun., Dec. 17th, 1PM, Old Montefiore Cemetery, Queens, NY. Donations in her me
 WEISS-Florae. On December 14, 2000, of Long Beach, NY. Formerly a resident of East Meadow and Lauderhill, FL. Beloved wife of Norman, loving mother and grandmother. There will be no funeral. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Long Beach Medical Center, 455 East Bay Drive, Long B
 Ruth Martin, a writer whose English translations of both popular and obscure operas were widely used in American opera houses, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. Mrs. Martin was born Ruth Berenice Kelley in Jersey City in April 1914. During her student years she wa
 Alice Recknagel Ireys, one of the most prominent landscape architects of the second half of the 20th century, with more than 1,000 public and private projects to her name, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. A bridge
 Christabel Leighton-Porter, who became the sweetheart of British troops in World War II as the model for a comic strip heroine who was forever shedding her clothes, died Dec. 6 in Horsham, England. She was 87. While American troops ogled pinups of Betty Grable and the Varga girls of
 AHERNE-Eleanor de Liagre. 90, died at home after a short illness in Boca Grande, FL. Wife of the late film and stage actor Brian Aherne and sister of producer Alfred de Liagre, Jr. She is survived by her daughter Leonie Labrot Gately of Annapolis, MD. Five grandsons and six greatgrandchildr
 BALCH-Hazel (Philips). Devoted widow of Everett Purdy Balch, loving mother to Beverly Balch Allinsmith, passed away peacefully in her sleep on November 28, 2000. Mrs. Balch was an elegant 105 years old. Her intelligence, compassion and humor will be missed by many, but especially by her gra
 BEERY-Evelyn Onken. Of Ridgefield, CT, and formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on December 13, 2000. The former wife of Dr. Edwin N. Beery, she is survived by sons Edwin N. Berry Jr., of Craftsbury Common, VT, and the Rev. William S. Beery, Ph.D., of Darien, CT; by her daughter Lillian B. Willis
 BERNS-Suzanne Marie. December 12, 2000. Wife of H. Jerome (Jerry) Berns, (Associate of the 21 Club New York City). Stepmother of Cecily Rosenthal. Sister of Hansi Karacz and Francis Tanzer. Step-grandmother and step-great grandmother. She will be deeply missed by her family and numerous fri
 COLE-Doli. Of Ridgewood, NJ. Daughter of Mireille Guzelbahar Axelrad of Boca Raton, FL and the late Robert Guzelbahar, wife of Morrill Cole and mother of Amy Ellen Cole of Cliffside Park and Robert Cole of Fort Lee, NJ died on Friday at Sloane Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. S
 EASTMOND-Christine. On December 14th at age 80. Graduate of North Carolina State College. Esteemed teacher and advocate for children. Predeceased by her beloved husband Maurice eleven months ago. Adored mother of Carolyn Nash & husband Douglas Nash, cherished grandmother of Jennifer Nash. M
 GAILMOR-Elaine, 84. Of Westport, Connecticut, died December 2, in Florida. An Honors graduate in sociology at NYU she served many years as the Administrator of the Miquon School, an innovative, progressive private elementary school in Miquon, PA. A tireless crusader for peace and human righ
 HENNEMAN-Esther Gracie. Of Buckingham County, Virginia and formerly of New York City, died December 14, 2000 at age 93. The widow of John B. Henneman and mother of the late John B. Henneman Jr. She is survived by a son Edward O. Henneman, two sisters Margaret Ogden and Athalia Barker, a bro
 HERRICK-Helen (Casey) Isaacs. The Board of Directors and staff of the Stanley Isaacs Neighborhood Center are saddened by the passing of board member Casey Herrick. Casey dedicated many years of service to the Isaacs Center and carried on the Isaacs family legacy of commitment to the communi
 HERSELLE - Jane Gartman. March 12, 1903-December 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David, adored mother of Carol Krinsky and husband Robert D. Krinsky, dearest grandmother to Alice, John, and Keren Osman, greatgrandmother to Maya OsmanKrinsky. Mourned also by brotherin-law, Martin Cherry. 
 HURDUS-Syde. December 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late William Hurdus. Predeceased by her brothers Harry Ross and Hyman Rosenwasser, and sister Esther Ruskin. Mourned by nieces Judy (Ron) Rager, Ann Wendy (Bruce) Lieberman, nephew Bruce (Margaret) Rosenwasser and sisters-inlaw Corinne Ros
 KOTLIAR-Nadya. On December 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Seoma. Loving mother of Marlene Alotta (Philip) and Alan Kotliar (Josephine R.). ''Dancing Grandmother'' of Jennifer Alotta, Daniel Alotta and Charles Kotliar. Caring sister of Vera Milstein. Dear aunt of Joan Cooper, Sandra Shap
 LATIL-Jacqueline. Died peacefully on December 7, 2000, in Kew Gardens, New York. Survived by her beloved husband, Jean Paul, to whom she was married for 67 years, her sister, Lise Blum Elson, and her sister-in-law Genevieve Blum-Gayet, of Corenc, France. She also leaves her three children, 
 LEVINE-Phyllis E. Age 73, of Hallandale, formerly of NYC, passed away Thursday, December 14, 2000. She was the beloved wife of the late Phillip, loving mother of Michael (Harriet) Levine and Karen (Allen) Saperstein. Cherished grandmother of Paige, Lara and Rikki Saperstein. In lieu of flow
 MONTENAY-Marie-Helene, founder and Director of the Gallery Montenay Giroux in Paris, died on December 6 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. She leaves behind her loving husband Philippe, her adoring nieces, Cecile Philipp and Isabelle Benestant, her brother, Jean Fremigacci, and fi
 SCHULTE-Lily Carlson. December 14, 2000. Beloved wife of David A. Schulte. Devoted mother of Holly Schulte Ellison, Christina Fleur and William Dowell. Cherished grandmother of Claire Ellison, Matthew Dowell, Eric Lewenstein and Scott Stevens. She was the first model of the Ford Model Agenc
 SLADE-Carlyle Lind. She was adored by her husband, Jarvis, and their three children, Shelley, Georgiana and Jarvis; an outstanding interior deisgner, very accomplished horse woman, lover of animals and Director of ARF, loved by her sons-in-law and daughter-in-law, Mark, David and Carmen, he
 SMITH-R. Robinson (Roby). On Thursday December 14, 2000 at the Sunrise in Springfield, VA. Mother of Gregory B. Smith of Arlington, VA, Dawn Smith Gurganus of Lorton, VA; sister of John J. Robinson, Jr. of Ohio; George D. Robinson of FL and Viola Mildred Blevins of KY. She is also survived 
 SUSSBERG-Carol. On Dec. 15, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Darwin Sussberg. Mother of Milton, Ronald and Lawrence. Mother-inlaw of Linda and Barbara. Grandmother of Matthew, Jordan and Samantha. Graveside service Sun., Dec. 17th, 1PM, Old Montefiore Cemetery, Queens, NY. Donations in her me
 Rosemarie Kanzler, who rose from humble beginnings in the Swiss Alps to become one of the most glamorous figures in the international set for more than five decades, died Dec. 9 at her estate in Argentina. She was 85. Her butler found her in her swimming pool after she had suffered a stroke
 Ilona Karmel Zucker, a Holocaust survivor who based much of her writing on her experiences in Nazi labor camps, died on Nov. 30 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 75. Born in Krakow, Poland, Ms. Karmel endured the war years in the city's ghetto and in three nearby camps, where she composed
 Lori Ledis, an art dealer and producer of concerts and music documentaries, died on Saturday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 40. The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert Flam. Ms. Ledis was born in Flushing, Queens, and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree from
 GREENBERG-Marjorie. On December 16, 2000, after 44 years of happiness with her beloved husband Jack. She was a secretary for many years and enjoyed her association with Volkswagen Corporation, from which she retired after 25 years of service. She will be missed. Funeral services will be pri
 KEYSER-Beatrice M. On December 17, 2000, nine days after her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Walter G. Keyser. Loving mother of Carol Mercer of East Hampton, NY, Noel Fischer of North Palm Beach, FL, and John P. Keyser of Winnetka, IL. Cherished grandmother of Holly DeVan Lee, Kerr
 LATIL-Jacqueline. Died peacefully on December 7, 2000, in Kew Gardens, New York. Survived by her beloved husband, Jean Paul, to whom she was married for 67 years, her sister, Lise Blum Elson, and her sister-in-law Genevieve Blum-Gayet, of Corenc, France. She also leaves her three children, 
 MITTLEMAN-Edna. Of Palm Beach, passed away Sunday, December 17, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Marcia Kapp and Paula, cherished and adored grandmother of Bambi. Dear sister of Anita Snyder, sister-in-law of Dr. Jay Snyder. She was a gracious lady who enriched everyo
 REISS-Eve. Plaza Memorial Chapel mourns with great sorrow the sudden death of our friend and coworker. Eve's commitment and devotion to her family as well as the families we serve was outstanding. All of us who worked with Eve shall remember all the special things she did. She will be deepl
 RUDNER-Florence Landau. Of New Rochelle, NY, died on December 14, peacefully at age 93. A native of Northvale, NJ, Mrs. Rudner was the widow of the late Jacob Landau of New Rochelle. She was a long-time member of Hadassah, Temple Israel in New Rochelle and Hampshire Country Club in Mamarone
 SCHULTE - Lily. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses its sorrow to our cherished member David Schulte on the death of his beloved Lily. We join the family and those who loved her in giving thanks for her life. May her memory endure as a beautiful blessing. Robert A. Bernh
 SLADE-Carlyle Lind. She was adored by her husband, Jarvis, and their three children, Shelley, Georgiana and Jarvis; an outstanding interior deisgner, very accomplished horse woman, lover of animals and Director of ARF, loved by her sons-in-law and daughter-in-law, Mark, David and Carmen, he
 SPIEGEL-Susi. On December 15, 2000. Head Nurse, Bankers Trust Co, NYC, for 25 years. Always respected for being at the top of her field. Survived by John Spiegel, Carolin Spiegel and Clare Breslof. Family gathering Tuesday, 4-7 PM, at Riverdale-on-Hudson Funeral Home, 6110 Riverdale Ave, Br
 STATSINGER-Roslyn. Died suddenly on December 15. Beloved wife and best friend of Irving. Loving mother of Lanie Shahar and Judy Oscharoff. Cherished mother-in-law of Steven Oscharoff. Adoring grandmother of Alisha Oscharoff. Devoted sister to Dr. Arthur Nathan, dear sister-in-law to Ida Nat
 STEINER-Jeanette. Beloved wife of the late Phillip. Devoted and loving aunt of Amy Gelb, Joan Leibman, Alan and Lester Zabronsky. Dear sister-in-law of Alfred and Leonard Steiner. Great-aunt and great-great-aunt of her many neices and nephews. Her beautiful life was shared by so many friend
 BUCY-Odetta (Greer), was born on October 25, 1931, on a farm in Grassland, Texas, 11 miles east of Tahoka, to her parents Wesley Robert Greer and Nannie Josephine Bargsley Greer and passed away on December 15, 2000. In addition to helping with the chores on the farm, she also enjoyed athlet
 DRUM-Sheila Frances. Of Southampton, N.Y., on December 17, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lt. Edward J. Drum, Jr. Survived by her five children and six grandchildren. Reposing Thursday 2-4 & 7-9 PM at the Brockett Funeral Home, Inc. 203 Hampton Road, Southampton, New York. Funeral Mass Frid
 GERRY-Peggy N. Of Roslyn, NY, died on Saturday, December 16, 2000. Widow of the late Roger G. Gerry. Services are private. Contributions in her memory can be made to Nassau County Museum of Fine Arts, Roslyn, to support Marion Cruger Coffin Garden.       
 HALL-Joan Shea. We note with sorrow the passing of our dear friend Joan Shea Hall and express our deep sympathies to her beloved father William Shea, her daughter Laura Hall-Kinzer, sonin-law Steven Kinzer, and granddaughter Cheyenne Kinzer. Georgi Michele and Ronald Curry       
 KEYSER-Beatrice M. On December 17, 2000, nine days after her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Walter G. Keyser. Loving mother of Carol Mercer of East Hampton, NY, Noel Fischer of North Palm Beach, FL, and John P. Keyser of Winnetka, IL. Cherished grandmother of Holly DeVan Lee, Kerr
 KREGER-Edythe. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member, Edythe Kreger. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 LEDIS-Lori. Died suddenly on Saturday, December 16, 2000. A funeral service will be held today at 11:30 A.M at Gramercy Chapel, Second Avenue and 10th Street. Robert Flam, her loving husband and partner in the Ledis Flam Gallery and NYC Entertainment, her colleagues in the arts and the Memb
 MALCOLM-Liria. Beloved sister of Julia Cozzo and Tita Giacobasso. Devoted mother of Liria Iturralde, Cuqui Bicelli, Cristina Caquias, and Monica Arestimuno. Adored grandmother of Christian, Gabriel, Karen, Alexa, Bryan, Analia, Jennifer, and Maria Isabel. Loving great grandmother of Jacklyn
 RHINE-Lester. The Yeshivah of Flatbush deeply mourns the passing of Lester Rhine, former Secretary and Boardmember, beloved father of Honorary President and Board of Trustees member Howard Rhine, and Judah Rhine and Mimi Mehlman and brother of Bella Chasky, Abraham Rhine and Edna Beer. Our 
 RORIMER-Katherine Serrell. 92, died December 17. Widow of James J. Rorimer, Director of The Metropolitan Museum of Art until 1966, she is survived by her children, Anne of Chicago and Louis of Cleveland; and grandchildren, Sarah and Jim. After graduating from Wellesley College and the Insti
 SPECTOR-Louise. Died in her 90th year at home in Southbury, CT. Survived by sons David of Manhattan, James of Hartsdale and three grandchildren. Widow of Justice Morris E. Spector. Services 1 P.M., Wednesday at GuttermanMusicant Funeral Home, Hackensack, NJ. Burial at Beth El Cemetery, West
 STATSINGER-Roslyn. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our beloved cousin. She will be sorely missed. Kinfolk STATSINGER-Roz. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of a lady of great dignity, capability, and integrity, and extends condolences to her devoted husban
 Peggy McMartin Buckey, a principal defendant in the Virginia McMartin Pre-School child-molestation case, who went free after a costly seven-year ordeal when prosecutors gave up, died on Friday in Torrance, Calif. She was 74 and lived in Torrance. The local authorities said Mrs. Buck
 Kirsty MacColl, a singer and songwriter with a string of hits in Britain, died on Monday in Mexico while vacationing in Cozumel. Reuters reported that her manager, Kevin Nixon, said that she was believed to have been hit by a speedboat in an area reserved for swimmers. She was 41  and lived
 HERMANN-Patricia A. New York City School Teacher and Asst Principal for 22 years. Died of lung cancer on December 18, 2000, four days after her 57th birthday in Vieques, Puerto Rico, where she lived for the past seven years. Wife of Lou Yager, Sister of Susan Hermann Ginsberg and Donald Gin
 MACALUSO-Carmella A. December 18, 2000, age 79 after a long illness. Beloved sister of Connie M. Carvagno of Roselle Park, NJ, and Grace V. Macaluso, MD, of Brooklyn, NY. She had numerous nieces and nephews. She was employed by the Port Authority of NY and NJ for 40 years as a management an
 RUDEL-Anne Kiley. Died on November 28th, 2000, in Hightstown, New Jersey. Wife of the late William E. Rudel. Survived by her children Thomas K. Rudel (Susan Golbeck), Joan E. Rudel (Chris Stinson), Elizabeth Rudel Mayersohn (Arnold L.) and three grandchildren Daniel, Sarah and Veronica. She
 SIEGEL-Rochelle. On December 18, 2000. She will be greatly missed by everyone at Seymour Mann, Inc. as a dedicated friend, colleague and faithful employee.       
 SLADE-Carlyle. The Women's Board of The Boy's Club of New York mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Carlyle was a dedicated member of the Board for more than fifteen years. Our deepest sympathies are with her family at this sad time. Carlyle Slade will be remembered by all of u
 WHITE-Illae. The Officers and employees of Consolidated Electric Construction Co., Inc. mourn the passing of Illae White. Miss White and all of us experienced a meaningful and wonderful lifetime of association and friendship. She was a loyal, fine, elegant and lovely person. We extend to he
 BARYSH-Noah. Of Brookline, MA, formerly of FL & New Milford, CT. Beloved husband of the late Gertrude (Katsh). Loving father of Ann D. Barysh and her husband Steven Swanger of Sudbury, MA. & Alan Barysh of Balitmore, MD. Cherished grandfather of Gabriel & Rebecca Swanger. Dear brother of th
 HURWITZ-Ruth Wainger. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Ruth Wainger Hurwitz, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 RAPAPORT - Marsha. Retired New York City Councilman, Sam Horwitz and wife Estelle and family extend our heartfelt sympathy to husband Jerry, daughter Jennifer, son David and family on the passing of beloved Marsha who was my legislative assistant for 20 years, a great friend and wonderful p
 SCHWARTZ-Sylvia C. On December 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Marchy. Devoted mother of Judith Duberstein (Dr. Joel) and Dr. Arthur Schwartz (Linda). Cherished grandmother of Laura, Kenneth, Marc (Suzanne) and Amy. Adored great-grandmother of Jack and Matthew. She touched many lives as 
 WEBER-Robert. Beloved husband of Regina, devoted father of Yolanda Weber Klein and her husband, David J. Klein. Cherished grandfather of Hannah and Benjamin. Loving brother of Murray and Harold. Services Friday, 11AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New
 CITRON-Anne. Formerly of New York, died on Wednesday, the thirteenth of December in Charlottesville, Virginia. Mrs. Citron had lived in New York from 1945 until last year, when she moved to Virginia to be closer to family. A native of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Citron served in the American Red Cro
 MAGSAYSAY-Teresita. On behalf of the Teachers College, Columbia University community I want to express my deepest sympathies to the family of Teresita (Tess) Magsaysay and Ken Boxley on the untimely death of our dear friend Tess. She was a graduate of Teachers College and her field of study
 MOREA-Cathy D. (nee du Moulin) on December 20, 2000. Beloved wife of Jerome Morea for twentyfive years. Loving mother of Chris, Doug, and Carrie. Devoted daughter of Edward and Eleanor du Moulin. Wonderful sister to Richard and Ann du Moulin, Doug and Barbara Morea. Adoring aunt to Lora, Ed
 RAPAPORT-Marsha. Mentor, colleague, friend. We and the community she served with excellence will remember her always. Senator Seymour Lachman and staff       
 SEIDEL-Jacob Carl. On December 18 2000 at 87 years old in Deerfield Beach, Florida. Loving husband of Essie for 61 years and beloved father to Andrew and Lauren and her husband John, and cherished grandfather to Rebecca and Ivan. Private ceremony. To life, love and the arts.       
 SELBY-Yetta. Of Pembroke Pines, FL passed away December 21, 2000. She is survived by her husband, three children, seven grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. For more information contact Menorah Gardens and Funeral Chapels, Fort Lauderdale, FL., 954-434-1531.       
 Florynce Kennedy, a lawyer and political activist whose flamboyant attire and sometimes outrageous comments drew attention to her fierce struggle for civil rights and feminism, died on Thursday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 84. Known to everyone as Flo, recognizable everywhere
 AARON-Pearl. Of West Caldwell, NJ, on December 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles Aaron. Loving mother of Deborah Aaron and her husband, Jay Cantor. Dear sister of Dr. Otto Eisert, Dr. Jack Eisert, Mrs. Yetta Forman and the late Israel Eisert. Services Sunday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Rive
 LABADORF-Arlene E. (nee Barkan). Cherished and devoted wife for 46 years of Irwin, on Thursday, Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved mother of Alan and Robin, and Michael and Corey. Adoring and adored grandmother of Sammy, Dani, Stevie, Juliet and Mark. Age 73, taken from us far too young. Her radiant sm
 PALMER-SHERMAN-Shira. The Horace Mann community is in mourning at the tragic death of Shira Palmer-Sherman, HM'98. An enthusiastic and accomplished scholar, a gifted thespian, singer & dancer, she was a compassionate human being whose compass was set by her strong moral values, her religiou
 PLUMMER-Hellen I. Mother of Pulitzer Prize winning poet James I. Merrill and former wife of Merrill Lynch founder Charles E. Merrill, died December 18, 2000 in Atlanta, GA., at the age of 102. Born Hellen Ingram in 1898, Mrs. Plummer was raised in Jacksonville, FL. After graduating from hig
 POLVERE - Santina Castorina. Mother of Joyce. Grandmother of five and great grandmother of thirteen. Throughout her 95 years she lived with dignity and grace and was an inspiration to all. She will be missed.       
 SCHRIER-Gussie. Loving wife of the late Dr. Maurice. Adored mother of Stanley (Roberta) and Dr. Robert (Louise). Beloved grandmother and great grandmother. A charitable woman and a friend to all who knew her. Services Sunday 9:30AM at I.J. Morris Inc., 21 East Deer Park Road, Dix Hills, New
 UCHIMA-Toshiko, age 82, on December 18. Beloved wife of the late Ansei, loving mother of Anju and wife Yoko, proud and adoring grandmother of Maya and Lenn, and dear sister of Teruyuki Aohara and Sachiko Ashihara. The widely esteemed artist of many exquisitely crafted box assemblages exhibi
 Lily Carlson Schulte, one of the first models hired by the Ford agency and a favorite subject of photographers like Irving Penn and Richard Avedon, died on Dec. 14 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 85. ''It's hard to explain to you what a star she was,'' said Eilee
 AARON-Pearl. Of West Caldwell, NJ, on December 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles Aaron. Loving mother of Deborah Aaron and her husband, Jay Cantor. Dear sister of Dr. Otto Eisert, Dr. Jack Eisert, Mrs. Yetta Forman and the late Israel Eisert. Services Sunday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Rive
 ACKERMAN-Barbara Lintner. 95, Hightstown, NJ, Thursday at home. Born in Troy, NY, she resided in South Orange, NJ, before moving to Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ, 22 years ago. Graduate of Montclair State Teacher's College, she taught in the Summit public school system. Married Dr. Arthur Ac
 FRANK-Dr. Sylvia. On December 21, 2000, at her home in Burbank, CA, at the age of 83. Mother of Robert Levey of Chevy Chase, MD, and John Levey of Burbank. Grandmother of Oliver, Emily, Joanna and Alexander Levey. Sister of Harriet Tatelbaum. Memorial service to be announced. In lieu of flo
 GOLODETZ-Marilyn ''Sugie''. On December 21, 2000 in Vermont. Survived by her husband Oscar, children Phyllis and David, daughter-in-law and son-in-law Kim and Patrick. She is the grandmother of Rachel, Jill and Marcel. Our love always. Services will be private. Contributions in her memory m
 KORNGOLD-Helen. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William Korngold. Devoted mother of Henryka Haberman & Dr. Louis Korngold. Loving grandmother of Sinclair and Brook Haberman, Jay Robin, Jonathan and Connie Korngold and Lisa Koenig. Service Sunday, 11:45 AM, ''Plaza Memorial Chapel'', 91st and A
 LABADORF-Arlene E. (nee Barkan). Cherished and devoted wife for 46 years of Irwin, on Thursday, Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved mother of Alan and Robin, and Michael and Corey. Adoring and adored grandmother of Sammy, Dani, Stevie, Juliet and Mark. Age 73, taken from us far too young. Her radiant sm
 LORBER-Ruth, 83. Of Lake Worth FL, passed away on December 19, 2000. Mrs. Lorber and her husband Jerry owned and directed Camp Ranger for over 30 years. She was a Life Member of Hadassah, an Officer of the Sisterhood at the Israel Center of Hillcrest Manor and an active fundraiser for the F
 PALMER-SHERMAN-Shira. The Horace Mann community is in mourning at the tragic death of Shira Palmer-Sherman, HM'98. An enthusiastic and accomplished scholar, a gifted thespian, singer & dancer, she was a compassionate human being whose compass was set by her strong moral values, her religiou
 SHIFF-Fannie, after 93 years during which she selflessly devoted herself to her late husband, Nat, her sons, Larry and Yaacov, her sister Ceil, brother-in-law Nat and nephew Mickey, and to her late sister and brothers Clara, Harry, and Max, Fannie passed away on December 22, 2000. For the l
 Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City. She was 92. Ms. Lamarque gai
 LABADORF-Arlene E. (nee Barkan). Cherished and devoted wife for 46 years of Irwin, on Thursday, Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved mother of Alan and Robin, and Michael and Corey. Adoring and adored grandmother of Sammy, Dani, Stevie, Juliet and Mark. Age 73, taken from us far too young. Her radiant sm
 SCHAFLER-Rubelle. On December 24, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Norman I. Schafler. Devoted mother of Julie Dale and Scott Schafler. Loving grandmother of Michael and Jonathan. Dear sister of Lucille Cohn. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 11:30 AM. Inter
 MCEVER-Georgia (Johnson), 53, of 198 Weatogue Road died December 24, 2000 at Hartford Hospital in Hartford, CT. Georgia was born January 20, 1947 in Oak Park, IL., a daughter of Alma Knight Black of Good Hope, GA and the late Lawrence Edward Johnson of Oak Brook, IL. Georgia is survived by 
 RICHMAN-Lillian B. On December 25, 2000 at age 76. Beloved wife of the late Dr. George Richman. Cherished and devoted mother of David. Adoring grandmother of Shoshanna Richman and Gabriel Richman. Beloved & adored sister of May Glantz and the late Saul Sorrin and adoring mother-in-law of El
 SCHAFLER-Rubelle. At her home on Dec. 24, 2000. Cherished wife of the late Norman I. Schafler, dearly beloved mother of Julie and Scott, mother-in-law of Jim Dale & Pam Bressler Schafler, loving grandmother of Michael and Jonathan Schafler, dear companion of the late Meyer W. Nathans. Born 
 STUHLER-Patricia Cumming. Of Point Pleasant, N.J., died December 20, 2000, at the age of 81. She was born in Westfield, N.J., on April 20, 1919. She was a nationally ranked tennis player (beginning in state championships at age 10) in a career that spanned 71 years. She won the girls 18 & u
 BINGHAM-Mary Dunwody. Died peacefully, December 23, 2000, in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bingham, Jr., loving mother of the late Mary B. Murray and of A. Walker Bingham III, devoted grandmother of Felicia C. Murray, Jonathan E. Murray, Arthur W. Bingham IV, Alexander D
 JAFFE-Tova, of Kibbutz Ein Dor. Beloved mother of Haran and Nurit, Admon and Orna, Riva and Howard, and Naama and Eran. Loving grandmother to Danit, Gali, Sharon, Uval, Chamutal, Hadar, Guy, Lior, Mia, and Noa, and dear sister of Pnina Linder. Tova loved and cared for her family deeply and 
 KLINEBERG-Selma Gintzler. On Dec. 23, 2000, age 91. Beloved wife of the late Otto Klineberg, devoted mother of Rosemary Coffey, John Kleinberg, and Stephen Klineberg. Grandmother of eight, great grandmother of five, after a year long battle with cancer. Interment will be private. Memorial s
 LIND-Marcia Susan. Scholar and teacher, beloved daughter of Dorothy & Eli Charles Lind, dear sister of David & Judith Lind & Warren Lind, aunt of Robert and Adam Lind, and cherished friend of many from various walks of her life: childhood in Brooklyn, Brooklyn College, CUNY Graduate Center 
 McCROSS-Mamie. The Pincus family deeply mourns the loss of Mamie McCross who has been in our family for 54 years. She was the epitome of kindness, gentleness and loyalty. She used her great talents wholly to better our lives and the lives of her family. Dr. Matthew R. Pincus and family     
 MENDELL-Malvina. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Malvina Mendell, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 MENDELL-Malvina C. 103 years old, died peacefully on December 26, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late M. Lester Mendell, to whom she was married for 65 years. Mother of Edward (Renee), Oliver (Shelley), and Olga (Wilbur) Toll. Grandmother of ten, great grandmother of fifteen, great gr
 PERLMAN-Rosalind. On December 25, 2000. Of East Hampton and New York City. Widow of the late Milton Perlman. Mother of Susan Ann Perlman of Paris, France, and Robert Anthony Perlman, mother ter-in-law of Carol Jolles Perlman, and grandmother of Jonathan Lee Perlman, all of New York City. Si
 SCHAFLER-Rubelle. The Board of Trustees, staff, consumers of YAI/National Institute for people with Disabilities notes with the deepest sorrow the loss of Rubelle Schafler. A distinguished member of our Board of Trustees for over three decades, she was a tireless crusader on behalf of the r
 SCHIFF-Doris. Formerly of NYC, NY, died on Saturday, December 23, in Rockville, MD. Beloved mother of Susan Anne. She was the president of two of the first independently woman-owned book publishing companies in the US, Fleet Press and Fleet Academic Editions.       
 SCIOS-Margaret. Of Haverstraw, N.Y. died Tuesday, December 26, 2000 at Northern Manor Nursing Home. She as 83. Margaret worked in New York City as a CPA for various accounting firms including a personal tax accountant for the late Bernard M. Baruch. She is survived by her brother and sister
 SNYDER-Suzanne. Adored wife of Ronald Snyder. Dearest mother of Lauren and Richard. Beloved sister of Michael Ullman and Janey Bernstein. Mother-in-law of Miranda Snyder. Sister-in-law of Susan Ullman, Bonnie, Richard and Jeffrey Synder, and Steven Bernstein. Born, New York City to Lucele a
 WARDEN-Ann S. Of New Canaan, CT died Monday, December 25 at her home following a brief illness. She was born in New York City, September 17, 1924 the daughter of the late L. Lee Stanton & Helen LaFetra Stanton & was graduated from the Chapin School. She was a Governor of the Colony Club of 
 Esther Bradford Aresty, a collector of rare books on etiquette and the culinary arts, subjects to which she added her own work as a noted author, died Saturday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. A former resident of Trenton and Princeton, she was 92. Mrs. Aresty's shelf-lined home
 BINGHAM-Mary Dunwody. Died peacefully, December 23, 2000, in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bingham, Jr., loving mother of the late Mary B. Murray and of A. Walker Bingham III, devoted grandmother of Felicia C. Murray, Jonathan E. Murray, Arthur W. Bingham IV, Alexander D
 HALPERN - Estelle. Women's League for Israel deeply mourns the death of one of our treasured officers. Estelle and George were longtime and generous supporters of the League. We loved her and will always miss her. We extend our sympathy to her children and grandchildren. All of us were bles
 KORN-Marion (Mitzi). Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Jay and Ellen, and Fred. Loving Nana to Wendy and Rory, Laurie and Rich. Dearest great-grandmother to Denielle and Ryan. A sweet little lady with a gigantic heart filled with love for her family. We will miss you but ne
 McCREADY-Karen. The Board of Directors and entire membership of the International Fine Print Dealers Association mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague. She was a major contributor to our organization and we will miss her. Richard N. Solomon, President       
 MENDELL-Malvina C. 103, died peacefully on December 26, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late M. Lester Mendell, to whom she was married for 65 years. Mother of Edward (Renee), Oliver (Shelley), and Olga (Wilbur) Toll. Grandmother of ten, great grandmother of fifteen, great great grandm
 REISS-Hilda. To the sweetest, most lovable wife and mother in the world. For the past 57 years she's been the greatest, most lovable woman that a man could ever have. I didn't deserve her but she was mine. She loved me, took care of myself and my son, was there for me all of the time and wa
 SHPRITZER-Felicia. On December 26, 2000. Loving sister of Saul. Devoted aunt of Marc Shpritzer, Richard Stephens & Robin Crevelt. Great aunt of many nieces and nephews. Service on Friday, at 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions in 
 WALSDORF-Bernice. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted, longtime member, Bernice Walsdorf. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her brother, Richard, his wife, Marilyn, her nephews David and Marshall, and her companion, Gordon Cutler, and all their dear one
 WARDEN-Ann S. Of New Canaan, CT died Monday, December 25 at her home following a brief illness. She was born in New York City, September 17, 1924 the daughter of the late L. Lee Stanton & Helen LaFetra Stanton & was graduated from the Chapin School. She was a Governor of the Colony Club of 
 BINGHAM-Mary Dunwody. Died peacefully, December 23, 2000, in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bingham, Jr., loving mother of the late Mary B. Murray and of A. Walker Bingham III, devoted grandmother of Felicia C. Murray, Jonathan E. Murray, Arthur W. Bingham IV, Alexander D
 DEYAB-Beatrice (Sabbey), age 79, of Cambridge, MA on December 18, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles Deyab. Devoted mother of Lawrence, John and George Deyab. Beatrice was an artist and friend of many artists throughout NYC. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 FRANK-Audrey Brooke, of Tewksbury, MA, formerly of Locust Valley, NY, died on December 20, 2000. Loving mother of Stephen, Elizabeth and Melinda, devoted grandmother of William, Elizabeth, Caroline, David and Scotty, adored daugher of Audrey, cherished sister of Tory and Albert. A private m
 GLOBE-Leah. EMUNAH of America mourns the sad loss of Leah Globe, beloved mother of Rena Quint, Vice Chairman of World EMUNAH. Leah was a woman of strength and artistic imagination who earned the great respect of EMUNAH members in Israel and of EMUNAH members around the globe. She will be mi
 KORN-Marion (Mitzi). Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Jay and Ellen, and Fred. Loving Nana to Wendy and Rory, Laurie and Rich. Dearest great-grandmother to Danielle and Ryan. A sweet little lady with a gigantic heart filled with love for her family. We will miss you but ne
 Levin-Louise. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School Community extends our heartfelt sympathies to our devoted board member Susan Levin Schlechter on the loss of her dear mother. We also send our condolences to Bruce Schlechter and the entire family. Shira Nadich Levin, President Roanna Shorofsk
 LIPTAK-Margaret M., 73, passed away on December 27, 2000. Born in Chesterfield, N.J., she was a long time resident of New York, NY. Daughter of the late Michael and Elizabeeth Liptak, she is survived by a brother, Dr. Ernest Liptak, and a niece, Pamela. Funeral services were private. Contri
 MCCABE-Carol Mary. Died peacefully at home on December 27, 2000. Beloved daughter, sister and aunt. Born May 31, 1939 eldest of seven children of Dorothy and the late Frank McCabe. A graduate of the Ursuline Academy and attended Regis College. Her professional career spanned over 35 years a
 McCREADY-Karen. To our radiant, scintillating, savvy, smart, discerning, clever, successful, brave, optimistic, determined, loyal, classy, funny, dear friend with the unforgettable tinkling laughter...We will miss you so. Love, the Wednesday Night Astrology Club McCREADY-Karen. Memb
 MENDELL-Malvina C. 103, died peacefully on December 26, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late M. Lester Mendell, to whom she was married for 65 years. Mother of Edward (Renee), Oliver (Shelley), and Olga (Wilbur) Toll. Grandmother of ten, great grandmother of fifteen, great great grandm
 ROSENBERG-Sandra. Of Roslyn Heights, NY, on December 28, 2000. Beloved wife of Murray. Devoted mother of Donna, Joseph and Amy. Loving grandmother of Noah, Juliet, Emma, Hannah, Ilana and Abigail. Dear sister of George Frechter, Mildred Korman and the late Ruth Hauss. She was born May 17, 1
 SCHAEFFER-Kate. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague who, with her late husband Hanns, dealt in works by Old Masters for more than 60 years. Works sold by The Schaeffer Gallery hang in many museums throughout the world. The
 WOLF-Dorothy. December 17, 2000. Wolf-Gordon Inc. mourns the loss of Dorothy Wolf who was instrumental in helping her husband and his associates create WolfGordon Wallcoverings in 1967. She worked at Wolf-Gordon during its formative years and helped make it the success is is today. All the 
 Karen McCready, a print publisher, gallery owner and writer, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 54 and had homes in Manhattan and Warwick, N.Y. The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Jean Yves Noblet. Ms. McCready was born in Beaver Falls, Pa., and grew up in Dalla
 McCABE - Carol Mary. Died peacefully at home on December 27, 2000. Beloved daughter, sister and aunt. Born May 31, 1939, eldest of seven children of Dorothy and the late Frank McCabe. A graduate of the Ursuline Academy and attended Regis College. Her professional career spanned over 35 year
 Felicia Shpritzer, who in the early 1960's broke a gender barrier in the New York Police Department when she earned a sergeant's stripes, paving the way for the advancement of women in police work across the country, died on Tuesday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. 
 BARRY-Charlotte. Passed away peacefully on December 29, 2000, in her 95th year. Devoted wife of the late Edward Barry. Beloved mother of Peter Barry and Rosemarie Fischer. Loving grandmother of Michael Marguerite, Melissa, Elliott and Nicole. Dear friend to so many. She will be missed.     
 BAUM-Claire C. Well-known resident of Jupiter, FL, passed away Thursday, December 28, 2000 at her residence. She was a resident for eighteen years moving here from Brookville, LI, NY. Mrs. Baum was a valued member of St. Jude Catholic Church, Turtle Creek Country Club and a former member of
 BRIEFER-Ruth (Meyer). Died Friday, Dec. 22 in her 94th year. Born in New York City, she spent her last 30 years in Winter Park, FL, where she and her late husband, Frederick Briefer, were active in the Unitarian Church and OCCA. She is survived by her son Charles Briefer, her sister, Florin
 CARLEBACH-Priscilla Wardwell of Mystic, Connecticut, formerly of Bedford, New York. Beloved wife of William, Mother of Michael Lloyd Carlebach and Stevenson Wardwell Carlebach, Grandmother of Adam, Joshua, Katy and Matthew Carlebach and of Priscilla Smith Rathbone, beloved sister of Alice W
 EDSON-Ann Payne. Beloved daughter of the late Christy Payne Jr. and Katharyn Wilhite Payne, also deceased, passed away on Wednesday, December 13. Ann is survived by daughter Christie Soffel of Washington, DC, and brother Neill Hunter Payne of Fouke, Arkansas. Ann was born May 24, 1934, in N
 GRIFFITHS-Deborah J. (Holton), 50 years, on December 26, 2000. Predeceased by her father James E. Holton, 1999. Surviving are her husband George R., her mother Dorothy J. (Mc Kenna) Holton, a sister Denise Holton, two brothers Dr. James J., MD, Dr. Kevin, DC, also several nieces and nephews
 HALPERN-Estelle. The Halpern, Fisher, Binger, Green and Levitt families mourn the sudden loss of Estelle, everyone's dearest friend and closest confidant. An irreplaceable part of our lives, she will be sorely missed. She died December 26, 2000. She was 82 years young. We will love you fore
 LESSER-Norma (Sharfman). October 22, 1917 to Dec. 29, 2000. Born, Worcester, MA., resided Westchester County, N.Y., and Berkshire County, MA; graduate Wellesley 1939; poetess and lover of literature; active in charitable organizations and community affairs. One sister, 3 children and 4 gran
