 Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf. She was 98 and lived in Manhattan.   
 Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan. She was 95. A longtime resident of New Y
 Gloria Emerson, a journalist and author who wrote with angry dignity about the effects of war on Americans, Vietnamese and Palestinians, was found dead by friends and the police yesterday morning in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 75 and left no immediate survivors. The medical 
 Virginia Grey, who made her film debut in 1927 at the age of 10 as Little Eva in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and acted almost continuously in movies and television for the next five decades, died on July 31 in Los Angeles. She was 87. Her death was announced by Jennifer Fagen of the publi
 Geraldine Peroni, an Academy Award-nominated film editor known for her work with Robert Altman, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan, said her sister, Pamela O'Grady. She was 51. The New York City medical examiner's office ruled the death a suicide, but Ms. Peroni's family is di
 Fay Wray, an actress who appeared in about 100 movies but whose fame is inextricably linked with the hours she spent struggling, helplessly screaming, in the eight-foot hand of King Kong, died on Sunday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 96. Rick McKay, a director and her friend
 THE ''puppet'' scuttlebutt -- that her latest career move has strings attached and that she's not the person pulling them -- rankles Louise Mirrer. Hence that furrow in the brow of the otherwise self-possessed president of the New-York Historical Society, who is inaugurating her tenure with
 Leslie Revsin, a culinary trailblazer who achieved celebrity early in her career as the first woman to work as a chef in the kitchen of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, died on Monday at her home in Shoreline, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. She was 59. The cause was ovarian cance
 Julia Child, who turned the art of French cooking into prime-time television entertainment and brought cassoulet to a casserole culture in the two volumes of her monumental ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' died yesterday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif., two days before her 92nd
 Susan Mary Alsop, who proclaimed that she saw ''no future in being an ordinary person'' and became a celebrated political hostess and later an author, died on Wednesday at her home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington. She was 86. The cause was complications of pneumonia, An
 Semiha Berksoy, the first lady of Turkish opera as well as one of the most colorful figures in contemporary Turkish art, died Aug. 15 in Istanbul. She was 94. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her daughter, Zeliha, said. In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her
 Dr. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, the psychiatrist whose pioneering work with terminally ill patients helped to revolutionize attitudes toward the care of the dying, died Tuesday at her home in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 78. She died after losing consciousness last week, according to her s
 Helen K. Copley, former publisher of The San Diego Union-Tribune and its predecessors and a prominent philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in La Jolla, Calif. She was 81. The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the newspaper said. Mrs. Copley began working at the U
 Laura Branigan, a singer whose high-volume vocals in the disco-style song ''Gloria'' propelled her into pop stardom, died in her sleep Thursday night at her home in East Quogue, N.Y. She was 47. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her brother Mark Branigan. After touring as
