 Janet Hayes Walker, the founder and producing director of the York Theater Company, an Off Broadway theater known for its revivals of American musicals from the recent past, died on Feb. 20 at Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. M
 BRIGGS-Gertrude, 84, on Feb. 27, 1997. Survived by daughters, Susan Briggs Myers and Aprille Briggs; three granddaughters, Sarah Rodriguez, and Molly and Emma Myers. Widow of Harold Briggs; they owned Books N' Things on East Tenth and East Seventh Streets for 50 years. She had many friends 
 BURNHAM-Lawrie Weil, on February 27, 1997. Devoted wife of I.W. Burnham, II. Loving mother of Wendy Burnham Morris and Jon M. Burnham and Miriam A. Burnham and Michael Morris. Beloved grandmother of Debra, Suzanne, Kimberly, Jon Jr, Anthony, Hilary and Andrew and great-grandchildren Alexand
 GROSS-Katherine Spector. Former beauty queen and actress, mother and grandmother died Monday at the age of 83. She will be sorely missed by her daughter Karen D. Gutterman, son-in-law Robert Gutterman and grandsons Roy S. and Jeffrey L., all of Scotch Plains, New Jersey.       
 HOOGENBOOM-Clara Helen, 74, of Freeport, N.Y., died from the effects of cancer on 27 Feb. Sister of Ari and sister-in-law of Olive Hoogenboom, aunt of Lynn, Ari Jr., and Jan Hoogenboom, and Jaye Nelin, and grand aunt of Amelia Hoogenboom. A graduate of Queens College in 1943, she was a gift
 LIPPMANN-Rosalie (nee Thalheimer), on February 26, 1997, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Robert L. for 49 years. Devoted mother of Pamela Lippmann Roth and Valerie Lippmann Doran. Loving grandmother of Stacey and Scott Roth. Services, Sunday, March 2, 10:45AM
 SCHERAGO-Bertien, of Port Washington, NY, on Feb. 27, 1997, after a long illness & courageous battle. Beloved wife of Irwin, loving mother of Nina Jones and Randall Scherago, mother-in-law of George Jones and sister of Emily Resnick, and many other family, friends and the community of Port 
 STOLZENBERG-Gussie. On February 27, 1997 in NYC where she lived for eighty-three years. Beloved wife of the late Jack. She will be remembered by daughter, Arlene and sons Louis and Richard, her 8 grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Services will be held on Sunday, March 2nd, 10 A.M
 Beatrice Brown, the longtime music director and conductor of the Ridgefield Symphony Orchestra, died on Feb. 11 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 79,  and lived in Norwalk, Conn. Ms. Brown began her career as a violist and then became a student of the German conducto
 Lois Marshall, a leading Canadian soprano in the 1950's and 60's, died on Feb. 19 at Women's College Hospital in Toronto. She was 72 and lived in Toronto. The cause was complications from exploratory cancer surgery, her family said. Ms. Marshall was born in Toronto and began
 BOHER-Gertrude, age 86, passed away peacefully in the early hours of Sunday, February 16, 1997. Gertrude was a true New Yorker where she lived all her life until the last few years when she joined her sister, Helen, in Studio City, California. Born on May 12, 1910 in Jackson Heights, a grad
 BURNHAM-Lawrie Weil, on February 27, 1997. Devoted wife of I.W. Burnham, II. Loving mother of Wendy Burnham Morris and Jon M. Burnham and Miriam A. Burnham and Michael Morris. Beloved grandmother of Debra, Suzanne, Kimberly, Jon Jr, Anthony, Hilary and Andrew and great-grandchildren Alexand
 FRIED-Lenore. Died February 25, 1997. Beloved mother of Jan Fried and Patti Calder. Devoted sister of Gene Lasdon, Peggy Siporin and Babs Dolinger. Adored grandmother and aunt. Private service. Contributions in her memory may be made to New York Public Library, Andrew Heiskell Library for t
 FRIEDMAN-Estelle Grace (nee Lieberman), 77, on February 5, 1997. ''Eaychet Chayil''. Devoted and self sacrificing; Mother of Kenneth, Gary, and Stanley. Mother-in-law of Dayle and Jane. Grandmother of Jeremy, Kayla, Wesley, Joshua, Ashley and Courtney. Sister of Regina and Harry Presser, an
 HERSHEY-Lenore O. On February 27, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Devoted mother of Jane Hershey Cuozzo and son-in-law, Steve Cuozzo. Loving daughter of the late Max and Fannie Oppenheimer. Fond cousin of Bebe Alvarez. Cherished aunt of Linda Gershen and great aunt of Merideth and H
 HOFFMAN-Laura, 52. Graduate of Cornell University and USC. Medical librarian at the National Institute of Health, where she created an advanced data system. Later served as marketing executive for several software companies and ultimately founded her own marketing agency, Marketware. She is
 HOOGENBOOM-Clara Helen, 74, of Freeport, N.Y., died from the effects of cancer on 27 Feb. Sister of Ari and sister-in-law of Olive Hoogenboom, aunt of Lynn, Ari Jr., and Jan Hoogenboom, and Jaye Nelia, and grand aunt of Amelia Hoogenboom. A graduate of Queens College in 1943, she was a gift
 JOACHIM-Florence B. The staff of Printing News/East announce with deep sorrow the death of our beloved Editor and Publisher on February 28, 1997 at the age of 84. A native of San Luis Obispo, CA, Florence was the loving wife of the late Leo H. Joachim, who in 1929 founded Printing News, the
 KONDYLIS-Lori, 61. On Feb. 28, at home. Survived by her husband Costas, daughters Alexia and Katherine. Service Sunday, 3:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (81 Street). She will be dearly missed by her friends and family. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Episcopalian 
 LIPPMANN-Rosalie (nee Thalheimer), on February 26, 1997, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Robert L. for 49 years. Devoted mother of Pamela Lippmann Roth and Valerie Lippmann Doran. Loving grandmother of Stacey and Scott Roth. Services, Sunday, March 2, 10:45AM
 OSIPOW-SMITH-Helen, 86. Of Boca Raton, FL., on February 22, 1997. Beloved wife of Bernard Smith and the late Benjamin Osipow. Devoted mother to Nina Shilling and Joseph Osipow. She is also survived by grandchildren Elizabeth and Michael Shilling and Eric, Daniel, Alexandra & Arianna Osipow.
 SCHERAGO-Bertien, of Port Washington, NY, on Feb. 27, 1997, after a long illness & courageous battle. Beloved wife of Irwin, loving mother of Nina Jones and Randall Scherago, mother-in-law of George Jones and sister of Emily Resnick, and many other family, friends and the community of Port 
 SEDLIS-Cynthia (nee Miller), on March 1, 1997. Beloved wife of Edward. Devoted mother of Bill, Dannie, Maggi and Matthew Goldstein. Loving sister of Pat Schoenfeld and sister-in-law of Gerald Schoenfeld, and Mildred and Herbert Sedlis. Adored daughter-inlaw of Rose Sedlis Beale. Cherished g
 SOMAN-Pauline, (nee Bernstein), widow of Alfred Soman Jr. Born July 10, 1902 in NYC, died January 14, 1997, in Sydney, Australia. She is survived by her son Alfred Soman of Paris, France; her daughter Juliet Richter of Sydney, Australia, and her grandchildren, Sophie Soman of Boston, Mass.,
 CHESNEY-Mary Schlossberg. March 17, 1882 - February 28, 1960 Mother In sweet memory of her unconditional love, her unwavering devotion and her gentle strength. A grateful daughter Judith Domoff       
 Lenore Hershey, a former editor of McCall's magazine and The Ladies' Home Journal, died Thursday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old and a resident of Riverdale, the Bronx. Her daughter, Jane Cuozzo, said the cause of death was complications from Parkinson's diseas
 ABRAMS - Thelma Silverstein. Died on March 1, 1997, in Louisville, KY. Former resident of NYC. Beloved wife of the late Jules. Loving mother of Dr. Susan Eichenberger of Louisville, KY, and Ralph Abrams, of Ann Arbor, MI. Survived by five grandchildren and one great-grandchild. She was a pa
 BOHER-Gertrude, age 86, passed away peacefully in the early hours of Sunday, February 16, 1997. Gertrude was a true New Yorker where she lived all her life until the last few years when she joined her sister, Helen, in Studio City, California. Born on May 12, 1910 in Jackson Heights, a grad
 KAUFMAN-Stella, Brownie. Darling mother Brownie, whose great concern and devotion always made me feel cared for and loved. Her great beauty, culture, design talent and inner strength gave her a zest for life and a sincere caring for people. She will always be in my thoughts, enormously miss
 KONDYLIS-Lori. The office of Costas Kondylis & Associates fondly remembers Lori Kondylis who died on February 28, 1997. She was a beautiful, talented and caring woman who enhanced the lives of all those who knew her. Her dedication, leadership and strength leaves a legacy that will be dearl
 LANGSAM-Annette (nee Kwestel). Age 87. Widow of Nathan Langsam, loving mother of Sara Lee, David and Sandra, adoring grandmother of Melissa and Nina, devoted aunt and great-aunt to Langsam, Schrader and Kwestel families, and caring friend to many in New York and California. Nettie was the l
 MEISELMAN-Florence. Beloved cousin and friend of Muriel and Theodore Kahn and Hobart and Gail Rauch. She will be missed.       
 STEINER-Fannie Glasser. On Sunday, March 2, 1997, died peacefully in her 85th year. Loving and caring mother of Albert and Arthur. Sister of Harry Glasser. Grandmother of Gary, Allison, Adrienne, Ashley, Gigi and Alison. From all who knew her best she will be forever missed. We love you and
 Judi Bari, an environmentalist whose passionate defense of the California redwoods earned her national prominence and who was injured in a car bombing that might have been related to her protests, died on Sunday at her cabin home in Willits, Calif. She was 47. The cause was cancer, 
 BERGLAS-Frances of Hallandale, FL. Survived by her husband Bernard and daughters Ellen Shaw and Ronnie Solow and 3 granchildren, Marc, Laurie and Alex.       
 COHEN-Edith A. (Bernard). Passed away on February 28, 1997 in Rochester, NY. She was the widow of Evans D. Cohen and mother of Elliot Cohen and Amy Roth. A devoted daughter, loving wife, concerned mother and dear sister, she will be long remembered with love. Good night, sweet Adeline. Herb
 DAVIS-Beatrice Mintzer, 75, died February 27, 1997. Survived by her daughter, Deborah Davis Gross, brother, Arthur Mintzer, two grandchildren, Paula and Eve Gross, and beloved friend, Jane Redwine. A native of Brooklyn, Bea was a teacher for the OASIS Senior Education Program and was by pro
 GLUSKER-Ann. Shalom Fannie Zornberg/Hadassah sadly reports the death of our devoted member and extend deepest sympathy to her family. Jaki Soreff, President       
 HARRIS-Hope B. Of Hartsdale, New York, March 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William J. Harris. She is survived by her dear daughters Susan Harris of NYC and Barbara Krysl of St. Louis, Mo., her beloved grandchildren David and Amy Loewenberg and Mark Easter, her dear daughter-in-law Sarah
 JOACHIM-Florence. The officers and members of the Typophiles note with regret the death of our Honorary member Florence Joachim. Her purpose and energies directed to the furthering of all aspects of the printing industry were a constant source of inspiration and helped ensure many successes
 KATZ-Leanne G. We lost a beautiful mother, wife and friend on Sunday night, March 2, 1997 after a three year struggle with cancer. She was loved by her family, her friends and all those in the National Coalition Against Censorship and First Amendment community and will be mourned, we know, 
 LUCCHI-Velma. We mourn the passing and celebrate the life of Velma Lucchi, our generous benefactor and mother of the late Sr. Lucian Lucchi. Our sympathies to her family. The Board and Staff of Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College       
 MASNIK-Ruthe. Beloved sister, aunt, friend and colleague. She will be missed by all. Donations may be made in her memory to the charity of your choice.       
 RULON-MILLER-Judith Rollinson, 53, died of breast cancer on March 1, 1997 in her home in Kingston, N.J. She is survived by her husband Patrick; daughter Sarah of New York City; and son Ian Davis of Breckenridge, Colorado. A memorial service will be held at 3PM, on Friday, March 5 at Trinity
 SIEGER-Ida. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Ida Sieger, beloved mother of our long time friend and colleague Francine Sieger from the Dept. of Dental Medicine. To Francine, the entire Sieger family, and all of her mother's loved ones, we offer 
 SPEIER-Mickey Gilbert, 83, of Palm Beach, formerly of New York, passed away March 2, 1997. She is survived by her husband, Ferdinand, her daughter, Jane Melrose, and son, Ross Gilbert (deceased), her nieces, Joan and Harriet. She had 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren. Service will 
 Leanne Katz, who served as executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship since its creation more than 20 years ago, died at her New York home Sunday, after a three-year battle with cancer. She was 65. As a defender of free speech, Ms. Katz worked with teachers, lib
 CARROLL-Mary, of Manhattan, on Sunday, March 2, 1997, at New York Hospital. Beloved sister of Joan Carroll of NYC and Anne Tamulonis of Frackville, Pa. Loving aunt to Diane Naspinski and her daughter Jennifer and son Eric. Interment will be in her home town of Frackville. A memorial service
 O'GORMAN-Emma Louisa (Crawford), in her eighty-fourth year. Beloved wife of the late Edward M. O'Gorman, devoted mother of Kathleen, Charlotte, Elizabeth and Martha. Loving daughter of the late James and Anne Kerr Crawford. Cherished grandmother of eight. A memorial service will be held Sat
 PROPPER-Norman. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to Anne Propper on the loss of her beloved husband, our esteemed member. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mark Spund, President Yehuda Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 RULON-MILLER-Judith Rollinson, 53, died of breast cancer on March 1, 1997 in her home in Kingston, N.J. She is survived by her husband Patrick; daughter Sarah of New York City; and son Ian Davis of Breckenridge, Colorado. A memorial service will be held at 3PM, on Friday, March 7 at Trinity
 TESCHNER-Sylvia F. In her 90th year. Loving wife of the late Edward. Very special mother of Helen T. Greene, mother-in-law of Alan. Dearly loved grandmother of James (Tina) and Michael (Alison) Greene. Beloved greatnanny to David, Jonathan, Jordan, Andrew and Dana. Sister of Marjorie Sandak
 WEINTRAUB-Jeanne. On March 4, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Weintraub. Loving mother to Eleanor Crames and Charles; adoring grandmother to Michele, Stefanie, Neil, Leslie and Dana & proud great grandmother to Jessica, Nicole & Jack. Family will receive friends Wed. 6-8PM, at Frank
 AGNEW-Jane Elizabeth Gillespie. Age 76. Of Wilton, CT. Died after a brief illness March 2, 1997 at the Norwalk Hospital. Known as Babbie, she was born June 21, 1920 to William F. Gillespie and Mabel Grace Miner in Stamford, CT. She attended the Low and Heywood School in Stamford, CT, The Ma
 CAREY-Isma D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family is saddened at the untimely passing of Isma D. Carey, beloved mother of our longtime friend and colleague, Eilene Quallo Frierson. To Eilene, her sister Melodie Jackson, the entire Carey family, and all who loved her, we extend our 
 KATZ-Leanne G. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of Leanne Katz, an indefatigable champion of freedom of expression for all people. Her dynamic leadership of the National Coalition Against Censorship helped, against great odds, to preserve and strengthen First Amendment 
 LONNER-Sassi. On March 4, 1997. Beloved wife of Fred Lonner, mother of David Lonner, Sharon Prince, and Jonathan Lonner, sister of Jakim Notea. Born in Tel Aviv, Israel. Contributions may be made to the American Committee for Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem, 49 West 45th St, Suite 1100, 
 MANACHER-Zelda Goodman. Of Greenwich, CT. On Wednesday at her home. Mother of Ariel Manacher, Adam Manacher, Amy Nulsen & Allegra Kohlberg. Seven grandchildren and predeceased by one daughter, Alissa Manacher. Funeral service held on Thursday, 11 A.M., at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral 
 MEADER-Olive Root, 91, of Sanbornton, NH, died March 3rd at home. Widow of Ralph Gibson Meader. Survived by a daughter, Mary Meader Mokler, Albuquerque, NM; a brother, Capt. Lloyd E. Root, USN Ret. C.E., Bellevue, WA; a sister, Charlotte Root Tuttle, Southbury, CT; two grandsons, Victor Roo
 O'GORMAN-Emma Louisa (Crawford), in her eighty-fourth year. Beloved wife of the late Edward M. O'Gorman, devoted mother of Kathleen, Charlotte, Elizabeth and Martha. Loving daughter of the late James and Anne Kerr Crawford. Cherished grandmother of eight. A memorial service will be held Sat
 RODENKIRCHEN-Eleanora V., 77, formerly of Nutley, New Jersey and Warrington, PA. Died at home February 28. She was the widow of Robert P. Rodenkirchen, ex-Governor of The New York Athletic Club. She is survived by four children, ten grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. The family will
 TOBIN-Rosaleen S., died Monday, March 3, at home. Wife of the late Austin J. Tobin, Executive Director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Beloved sister of Lorenz Skehan and the late Vesta and Una Skehan. Aunt of Laurie Cantron and Carrie Skehan. Step-mother of Austin Tobin a
 McGUIRE-Muriel Margaret. Dearest Mom, Happy Birthday! ''I saw sweet beauty in her face and marvelled at the depth of her love.'' Love, Sissy       
 BART-Susan Amy (nee Kapnick), died on March 6, 1997 after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. Beloved wife and dearest friend of Jacob Bart. Adored and loving mother of Joshua and Madelyn. Cherished and most precious daughter of Syd (Sylvia) and Oscar Kapnick. Loving sister of 
 COHEN-Edith A. (Bernard). Passed away on February 28, 1997 in Rochester, NY. She was the widow of Evans D. Cohen and mother of Elliot Cohen and Amy Roth. A devoted daughter, loving wife, concerned mother and dear sister, she will be long remembered with love. Good night, sweet Adeline. Herb
 DUNBAR-Anne W., age 82, died Friday, February 14, 1997 at her home at Wake Robin, Shelburne, VT. She was the widow of Charles E. Dunbar and daughter of the late Edward J. and Caroline (Value) Waring. Born in Plainfield, NJ, Survivors include three daughters; Beverly D. West of Londonderry, 
 KAPLAN-Pauline, in Palm Beach, on March 2, 1997, age 82. Dearly beloved wife of Murray, mother of Linda Steinhacker and Janet Rodgers. Adored grandmother of Kevin Moore and Lisa Mihan and great grandmother of Noah Mihan. Cherished sister of Virginia Footer and Jane Jacobs. Her abundant tale
 MANACHER-Zelda Goodman. Of Greenwich, CT. On Wednesday at her home. Mother of Ariel Manacher, Adam Manacher, Amy Nulsen & Allegra Kohlberg. Seven grandchildren and predeceased by one daughter, Alissa Manacher. Funeral service held on Thursday, 11 A.M., at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral 
 PEYTON-Berna. Of Hackensack, NJ, on March 6 , 1997. Beloved wife of the late Norman I. Peyton. Loving mother of Richard J. Peyton of Towson, MD; Marie P. Varner of New Milford, NJ and Abby P. Howson of Westborough, MA. Adoring grandmother of Deborah, Kenneth, Julie, Daniel, Amy, Teddy, Kate
 Ruth Clark, a pollster who left her mark on the newspaper industry with a landmark newspaper study that encouraged editors to offer more information that readers could use in their daily lives and who helped define changing American attitudes on issues from the political to the personal, di
 BART-Susan. Our entire community mourns the death of Susan Bart, Mother of Maddy and Josh, and wife of Jack Bart, after a long and courageous struggle. Susan was an exemplary jewish parent, who devoted herself to the wel fare of her family; Susan's commitment to her children's future was al
 GLASSBERG - Fran. National Council of Jewish Woman, Brooklyn Section Board extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Bill and children. Services at Boulevard Riverside Chapel, Brooklyn, New York, Sunday, 1 P.M. Anne Berger and Rita Berger Co-Presidents       
 SHERNOFF-Lindy Carole, 38. Beloved daughter of Hortense and Sumner Zabriskie; cherished sister of Joan and Michael Bilt; adored aunt of Steven & Marty Bilt; loving and devoted friend to so many. She will be deeply missed for her goodness, her incredible artistic talents, her depth of charac
 COHEN-Rose Brustein. on March 7, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel. Devoted mother of Joseph and Rheta and daughterin-law Cynthia Price Cohen. Cherished grandmother of James and Andrew. Devoted to her family, she will be remembered for her strength, grace and vitality. Services Wedne
 FRIEDMAN-Mary Louise, on February 25, 1997. Wife of Edward D. Friedman; mother of Michael, Daniel, Mary Eleanor, and Elizabeth; grandmother of six; sister of the late Daniel J. Melia, M.D. A radiant and remarkable woman loved by all who knew her. In lieu of flowers please make donations to 
 GREENWALD - Sarah Kate (Vicki), died March 6 after a long battle with breast cancer. Service on Sunday at 10 A.M., in the main santuary of Park Avenue Synagogue, 87 St. and Madison Avenue. Interment at Sharon Gardens. Family and friends are welcome at Debby's house after service and welcome
 HASTINGS-Louise Laurent (Lily). It is with deep regret that we note the passing of Lily Hastings on March 7th, 1997 after a long illness while in St. Vincent's Hospital, NYC. Born in Lyon, France, September 9th, 1908; on December 22nd, 1945, she was married in Paris to the musician, Baird H
 HIRSHHORN-Jean, 92, beloved wife of the late Sol, died peacefully in her sleep in Delray Beach, FL. She is mourned by her loving children, William (Edith) and Sylvia Ehrlich (David), and by her four devoted grandchildren, and her four adoring great-grandchildren.       
 KATZ-Alice, of Forest Hills, NY. Died in an automobile accident on March 6, 1997 at the age of 77 in Sun City Center, FL. Loving sister of Dorothy and Hy Winter and Jean Goldstein. Adored aunt of Joel and Alice Winter and Kenneth and Mary Winter. Best friend of Norma Francis. She was associ
 ROSEN-Shirley Goldston. Died March 7, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert S. Rosen. Mother of Jane Barowitz and David Rosen. Grandmother of Zack and Jordan Barowitz; Nick, Adam, Annie and Sarah Rosen. Mother-in-law of Elliott Barowitz and Barbara Goren. Devoted wife for 58 years. Dear friend, att
 STEINFIRST-Susan, daughter of Donald and Jane Steinfirst of Pittsburgh, PA, died March 7, 1997, at home in Carrboro, NC, of cancer. Dr. Steinfirst, age 56, was Professor of Children's Literature at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Dr. Steinfirst was co-author of ''The History 
 AGATA-Abby Fran. Died on March 8 in her 36th year of life after battling muscular dystrophy with great courage, with a magnificent sense of humor, with personal grace and dignity, and with kindness to others. She will be forever missed by her loving parents, Dale and Burton Agata, her broth
 AXELSON-Lucyann Sherry, on Wednesday, March 5, 1997, of Washington, D.C. Beloved wife of Arthur B. Axelson, mother of Lizzie Madden Axelson and Heywood Nathaniel Axelson, daughter of Janet P. Sherry, sister of James (Jane) Alexander Sherry III, Christopher A. (Eileen) Sherry and Jeffrey M. 
 EPSTEIN-Diana. On March 7, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of Jerome, Robert and the late Allen. Adoring grandmother of William David, Nicole, Kimberley, Carlton and Lauran. Her strength of spirit was a model to us all. Service today, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th 
 FOX-Helen Goldstein. Of Delray Beach, Florida, passed away March 7, 1997. She is survived by her loving children Sheila (Herman) Eidmann and Stuart (Annette) Goldstein, cherished grandchildren Jennifer and Steven Goldstein and adored Missy and Gabriel. Donations in her memory to the Simon W
 JACOBS-Roslyn. On March 7, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Arthur, devoted mother of Richard and Robert, loved grandmother of Jon, Amanda and Lauren. She will be greatly missed. Cremation will be in California. Richard and Robert will sit shiva on March 13 and 14, in the evening, at 522 Shor
 LERNER-Hazel. On March 8, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert. Devoted mother of William and Amy, daughter-in-law Beverly and son-in-law Donald. Cherished grandmother of Jessica, Alex, Derek, Jason and Max. Devoted to her family, she will be remembered for her love, strength, and grace. Services 
 SHABTAI-Roberta (nee Mittman). Beloved wife of Gabi. Loving mother of David, Simmy, Donny and Sara. Cherished daughter of Hilda and the late Marvin Mittman. Dear sister of Linda and brother-in-law Steve Katz. Adored by her nephews and nieces. Interment March 9th at The New Montefiore Cemeta
 FINE-Shirley, 70, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Lake Success, NY March 8, after a short illness. Wife of Leonard, mother of Madeline Finch, Ira Fine, Jan Eisenberg, sister of Marcia Aaron, grandmother of Tracey, Liza, Mia, Zoe, Hilary, Adam, and Wendy. Donations to Jewish National Fund or 
 GERSTLE-Jack. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Ina Pretsfelder, Chairperson of our Fund for the Needy Committee, on the loss of her beloved brother, Jack Gerstle. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tob
 GOLD-Lillian L., March 10, 1997, of Hollywood, FL., formerly of Laurelton, NY. Adored wife of the late Jack Gold for 68 years. Loving mother of Florence and Richard Luckow and Senator Emanuel R. and Judith Gold. Cherished grandmother of Ken & Brenda Luckow, Scott and Sherri Luckow, Betsy an
 HAUSMAN-Blanche. With profound sorrow the Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, mourns the passing of Blanche Hausman. For 64 years she was the beloved wife of Leo Hausman, President of the Board of Directors and for many of those years a devoted friend of chil
 LANDE-Helen A., 87, of Palm Beach, FL, passed away March 9, 1997. Beloved wife of Lawrence, loving mother of Richard (Mimmi) Brukenfeld of Dobbs Ferry, NY and Jane B. Holzer of New York and Palm Beach, FL. Dear sister of Raymond Ackerman of Hallandale, FL and Stella Finn of Palm Beach, FL. 
 MARCHOWSKY-Marie, beloved wife of the late Harry Swartz, M.D., died on March 8, 1997. Former outstanding early member and performer in Martha Graham's Dance Company. She was a dedicated teacher of the Graham technique, former director of dance at Cal Tech, Pasadena, Calif. She also organize
 PERLISS-Edith, of Brooklyn died Mar. 9, 1997. Survived by daughter Susan Galinkin. Sister of Robert Perliss, Marilyn Tucker and Herbert Perliss and seven nieces and nephews. Remembered by many friends her life touched. Services today at 1 PM, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2516 Flatbush Avenue (
 LaVern Baker, one of the most important rhythm-and-blues singers of the 1950's, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 67. The cause was heart complications, The Associated Press said. Ms. Baker was a mainstay of the Atlantic Records roster of 
 Marie Marchowsky, a modern-dance choreographer and teacher who was a leading member of Martha Graham's company in the 1930's, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Miss Marchowsky was born in New York and studied at the Gr
 AXELROD-Essie. Temple Israel of Long Beach and its Sisterhood record with sorrow the passing of its former Sisterhood president. Our condolences to Harry S. Reiter, her brother, our past president; her husband Victor and the entire family. Jacob Chiger, Rabbi Mark I. Samuels, Co-President B
 CHAIT-Irene, on March 10th, 1997 in her 94th year in Coral Springs, Florida. Wife of the late David, mother of Alice Olick, grandmother of Jonathan, Jeffrey and Diana, great-grandmother of Hannah. Interment private.       
 COBHAM-Agnes Haydu, 72, on March 11, 1997. Of Ft. Meyers, FL, formerly of Fair Haven, NJ. Survived by her daughters, Victoria Granello (James) and Christina Cobham, a brother, Edward Haydu, and a grandson, James L. Granello. Funeral services private. In lieu of flowers donations to Hope Hos
 FRIEDMAN-Clarice K. Beloved wife of the late Jerome, loving mother of Helene (Chickie) and Bill Hartman, and Robert and Sandra Friedman. Adored grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey Levy, Peter and Jeannie Hartman and Jane Friedman. Cherished great grandmother of Charles Levy and Haley Hartman
 GARDNER-Ellen. The Beth Emeth Synagogue family mourns the death of our member, Ellen Gardner. She was a true woman of valor. Our heartfelt condolences go to Mel and all their children and grandchildren.       
 HAMILTON-Ann Twynam. Born on August 22, 1922, Havant, England, peacefully on March 6, in Manhattan. Much loved by her husband, Leonard Derwent Hamilton, her three children, Jane, Stephen, and Robin, her six grandchildren, her brother David Blake and sister Elizabeth Day. A memorial service 
 HAUSMAN-Blanche. The Board of Trustees and Administration of Long Island Jewish Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the death of Blanche Hausman, wife of our esteemed friend and Life Trustee, Leo. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Gedale B. Horowitz, Chairman D
 HEILPERN-Riette L., 78, peacefully in her sleep, at her home in Boca Raton, Florida, on Sunday March 9, 1997. Born in Savannah, Georgia, Riette grew up in Hartford, Connecticut where she graduated from Hartford High School as valedictorian of her class. She received her B.A. from Wellesley 
 TAUBE-Josephine A. The Directors and friends of the UJA of Jersey City (NJ) profoundly mourn the loss of its distinguished ChairWomen's Division. A founding member, she was an outstanding leader who was an inspiration to all who worked with her for more than half a century. Mel Blum-Hy Nutk
 Lenore LoPresti, a singer, actress and interior decorator, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 69 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. The cause was breast cancer, said her son, Jonathan. Born in New York, she attended the Ethical Culture School, Fieldston an
 DEFLIESE-Pauline Harnisch, 75, of Englewood Isles, Florida, died on Saturday, March 8, 1997, at the Venice Hospital in Venice, Florida, after a long illness. She was born October 13, 1921 in Queens, New York and was the only child of William and Louise Zimmer Harnisch. She married Philip L.
 GIBSON - Constance D. The Trustees of Gramercy Park regret the passing of their Honorary Chairman, Constance D. Gibson on March 10, 1997. Mrs. Gibson was elected a Trustee of the Park in 1964 and served as Chairman from 1980 until 1992. Her wisdom and charm will be missed. Funeral service w
 HAUSMAN-Blanche. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend who, with her beloved husband, Leo, and brothers-in-law Jack and the late Samuel and their families, was a YU Guardian and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Through the Hausman Belding Found
 KOOK-Hilda S., on 3/12/97, (age 95). Cherished for her common sense, her style and grace and love of the arts. Wife of the late Edward Kook. Mother of the late Patricia Gibbs; mother-in-law of Bud Gibbs; grandmother of Lauren Gibbs and Kenneth Gibbs; great-grandmother of Jeremy, Leah, Ethan
 O'BRIEN-Margaret M. Passed away after brief illness on March 12, 1997. Daughter of the late William C. and Margaret Tully O'Brien and sister of the late John P., she is survived by Jeanne P. O'Brien of Tampa and Msgr. William B. O'Brien of New York. A long-time Scarsdale resident, she pione
 PROSNITZ-Gerry, age 95. We mourn the passing of Gerry, a prominent journalist and activist. She fought tirelessly for social and Jewish causes throughout her life. She was founder and president of the Jewish Association of Retired Professionals until the age of 90. She is survived by sons E
 WOLFF-Blanche Silver. A great lady. Wife and soulmate of Lester Wolff; loving mother of Diane and Bruce; caring grandmother of Sonya, Maeve, Michael and Scott; and adoring great-grandmother of Amanda. The guiding light for her entire family, whose passing brings great sorrow. Services on Fr
 BOOKBINDER-Helen Sue. With profound sorrow, we announce that Helen Sue Bookbinder, nee Landsman, passed away peacefully at her home in New York City, on March 10, following a brief but intense battle with cancer. Beloved wife of George, adored mother of Jay and David, and grandmother of Jer
 KAELBER-Nina Chandler, widow of Dr. F.M. Kaelber, daughter of the late Nina B. & W.G. Chandler of Scripps-Howard Newspapers & American Newspaper Publishers Association. She is survived by a son, David K. Steffens, two nephews, William P. and James J. Chandler, six grandchildren and three gr
 KOOK-Hilda S., on 3/12/97, (age 95). Cherished for her common sense, her style and grace and love of the arts. Wife of the late Edward Kook. Mother of the late Patricia Gibbs; mother-in-law of Bud Gibbs; grandmother of Lauren Gibbs and Kenneth Gibbs; great-grandmother of Jeremy, Leah, Ethan
 LORENZ-Anna Stella, age 85, died March 13, 1997. For 58 years devoted wife of Gunter Lorenz, MD, beloved mother of Linda Marion Gerstman and son-in-law Stephen Gerstman, DDS, cherished grandmother of Elissa Eve Fullerton and husband John Fullerton, III, JD and Sherry Michelle Gerstman. Lovi
 O'BRIEN-Margaret M. Passed away after brief illness on March 12, 1997. Daughter of the late William C. and Margaret Tully O'Brien and sister of the late John P., she is survived by Jeanne P. O'Brien of Tampa and Msgr. William B. O'Brien of New York. A long-time Scarsdale resident, she pione
 PROSNITZ-Gerry, age 95. We mourn the passing of Gerry, a prominent journalist and activist. She fought tirelessly for social and Jewish causes throughout her life. She was founder and president of the Jewish Association of Retired Professionals until the age of 90. She is survived by sons E
 WOLFF-Blanche. It is with great sorrow that the Touro College Family learned of the passing of Mrs. Blanche Wolff, wife of our dear friend and colleague, the Honorable Lester Wolff, Chairman of the Pacific Community Institute (PCI) of Touro College. Blanche Wolff exemplified the truest form
 BEECHER-Margery. Age 86. On March 13, 1997 after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife for 63 years to Lawrence (Larry) Beecher. Loving mother of Andrew and Robert. Dear grandmother of Amy and Owen. Devoted sister of Stanton Gottlieb. Family will receive friends Saturday 7-9PM at Frank E. Campb
 BROWN-Lois Newell. Mar. 13, 1997. Widow of the late McClary Hazelton Brown; sister of the late Thaddeus Selby Newell. She is survived by her daughter Selby B. Ehrlich and son in law Peter Ehrlich of Bedford, NY; grandsons Peter, Jr., James, Timothy and John; and three great-grandchildren. S
 LEWIS-Muriel, nee Zinn (Micky) on March 13, 1997 of White Plains, NY after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Arthur, cherished mother of Joan Anders, Art Lewis and mother-in-law of Howard Anders. Devoted sister of Constance Szego, late Richard and Donald Zinn. Loving grandmother of James and
 LORENZ-Anna Stella, age 85, died March 13, 1997. For 58 years devoted wife of Gunter Lorenz, MD, beloved mother of Linda Marion Gerstman and son-in-law Stephen Gerstman, DDS, cherished grandmother of Elissa Eve Fullerton and husband John Fullerton, III, JD and Sherry Michelle Gerstman. Lovi
 STONE-Louise Hawley Higgins. Peacefully, at the Balmoral Club, Toronto on March 9, 1997, in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Higgins and the late Edgar Stone. Dear daughter of the late Fred and Miriam Hawley. Sister of the late William Hawley. Stepmother of Richard Stone and El
 Constance D. Gibson, an elegant dowager who spent half her life regally overseeing one of Manhattan's crown jewels as the acknowledged queen of Gramercy Park, died on Monday at her home overlooking the park she had nurtured and cherished for more than 50 years. She was 94. To those 
 BEECHER-Margery. Age 86. On March 13, 1997 after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife for 63 years to Lawrence (Larry) Beecher. Loving mother of Andrew and Robert. Dear grandmother of Amy and Owen. Devoted sister of Stanton Gottlieb. Service Sunday 11AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 
 BERGERMAN - Ems. Devoted wife of the late Milton M. Bergerman. Passed away peacefully at home on Thursday, March 13. Born in Lyon, France, one of 11 children, she became a proud U.S. citizen in 1945. She was the beloved mother of Jane (Martin) and Jill (Tom). Devoted grandmere of Christen, 
 DAVIS-Helen I., 100, formerly of NYC. On Feb. 27, at Heath Village Retirement Community, Hacketstown, NJ, her residence since 1975. Memorial service Mar. 18 at the Village. No family survivors.       
 EPSTEIN-Dorothy. Mother of Phyllis Florin and Irwin Epstein. Loving grandmother of Toni, Jody, Gale and Abby. Great grandmother of six. She will be missed.       
 FELD-Eva (nee Feinberg), 88. Passed away peacefully in her home in Clifton, NJ, March 15. Beloved wife of the late Morris and mother of the late Stanley. Survived by two sisters, Adeline Kramer, Sylvia Gurevitz; two brothers, Harold and Saul Feinberg. Also survived by ten nieces and nephews
 GOLDFEDER - Helen W. Of Rancho Santa Fe, CA, died Friday, March 14. Beloved wife of Howard, devoted mother of Carole Adashek and Joan Goldfeder, grandmother to Michael Adashek, cherished sister of Richard Wiggs, and daughter of Dorothy Wiggs. Helen will be missed for her generosity, grace, 
 KLABER-Linda. On March 15, in Miami, FL, at age 57. She lived in Boca Raton, FL. Ms. Klaber worked in advertising for over 30 years. Before moving to Florida, she lived in California for over 10 years, where she leaves many friends. She was born in Brooklyn, NY, and was the only child of Fr
 KOOK-Hilda S. It is with deep regret that we record the passing of our dear member, Hilda Kook, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to all her dear ones. Congregation Rodeph Sholom Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, President       
 KROLL-Lucy. A legendary enertainment agent with great spirit. She will always be remembered. Barbara Hogenson Holly Lebed       
 LORENZ-Anna Stella, age 85, died March 13, 1997. For 58 years devoted wife of Gunter Lorenz, MD, beloved mother of Linda Marion Gerstman and son-in-law Stephen Gerstman, DDS, cherished grandmother of Elissa Eve Fullerton and husband John Fullerton, III, JD and Sherry Michelle Gerstman. Lovi
 PAASWELL-Lucille Schoenbrod, 95. Quietly on March 14th, in New York City. Wife of the late Dr. Benjamin Paaswell, sister of the late Edward and Gilbert Schoenbrod. Mother of Jean Paaswell Bailinson. Grandmother of Ann Kleinman, Frank Bailinson, Jr., and James Bailinson. Grandmother-inlaw of
 PROSNITZ-Gerry. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with sorrow the passing of our long-time member, Gerry Prosnitz, whose commitment and caring will be sorely missed by our synagogue community. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her sons Eugene and Leonard, and their families. Robert N.
 ROSEN-Shirley. The children, the staff and the Board of Open Door Child Care Center mourn the loss of our dear friend, Shirley Rosen. For more than forty years, Shirley gave her love and devotion to the welfare of the children at Open Door, as well as her wisdom and guidance in the operatio
 SELDOWITZ-Esther. On March 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Morton Seldowitz. Devoted mother of Marjorie and Howard Sontag, Joan and Martin Silver. Adored and proud grandmother and great-grandmother. Dear sister of Jacob Weinstein. She was special to us all.       
 WARDELL-Elsa, A. On March 14, 1997. Devoted wife for 60 years of Charles W.B., Jr. and loved mother of Wendy Chamberlin, Charles III, Christopher and David. Grandmother of Talbot Harris, Hunter, Charles IV, Diana, Cooper, Clayton, and Cale. Sister of Hector Adam and the late Helen Simon. Gr
 WAXMAN-Sarah (nee Heller). March 12, 1997. ''An angel from heaven sent and back to there she has went.''       
 BOOKEY-Sadie (on March 15, 1997) in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Devoted mother of Elaine (Abe) Slotnick, Ted (Shirley), Jack (Frankie). Cherished grandmother of eight and great-grandmother of four. Services Monday, 10:30 AM, at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels.''  
 FELD-Eva. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the Museum of American Folk Art record with profound sorrow the death of their friend, Eva Feld, an Honory Trustee of the Museum. A person of great kindness, quiet dignity and generosity of spirit, Eva Feld touched the hearts of ever
 KLEIN-Doris Bonhart. Age 91. Of Hollywood, Florida. Formerly of Mount Vernon, New York. She is survived by her loving sister Evelyn Charwat Newman, niece Florence Charwat Simon and nephew Arthur Charwat. Grand aunt of Wendy Simon Zlotlow, Michael Simon and Barbara Simon. Adored Great Aunt. 
 LASDON-Mildred D. Wife of the late pharmaceutical executive William S. Lasdon. Died at age 95 on March 16 in Palm Beach. She was a remarkable woman with an indomitable spirit. Her life was dedicated to enriching the lives of others through her many philanthropic endeavors in the fields of m
 WARDELL-Elsa, A. On March 14, 1997. Devoted wife for 60 years of Charles W.B., Jr. and loved mother of Wendy Chamberlin, Charles III, Christopher and David. Grandmother of Talbot Harris, Hunter, Charles IV, Diana, Cooper, Clayton, and Cale. Sister of Hector Adam and the late Helen Simon. Gr
 WAXMAN-Sarah (nee Heller). March 12, 1997. ''An angel from heaven sent and back to there she has went.''       
 WEIDENBAUM-Gertrude (nee Doniger), in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Devoted mother of Jack and Suzanne and Lawrence Merzon. Loving grandmother of Mark and Susan, Bruce and Anna, Bradley and Mary Jo, and Jill and Randi Merzon. Great-grandmother of Matthew, Faith, Gregory, Je
 ZIMMERMAN-Janet K. Passed away on Saturday, March 15. Beloved mother of Howard and Ted. She helped and encouraged us throughout our lives. Loving sister of Bebe Leder and Lillian Krautman. Dear mother-in-law of Janet. Devoted aunt of Dr. Marvin Leder. Proud grandmother of Irene, Stephanie, 
 BUSH-Sara. A great lady. Wife of Jacob S. Bush. Daughter of Anna Cohen and Israel Katz, she is survived by her children and their spouse, Nan Bush and Bruce Weber and Nancy and Ronald Bush, her sister, Beth Levine, her daughter, Anna Thomson and her grandchildren, Meghan and Jamie Bush. The
 FELD-Eva. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum note with great sadness the passing of our longtime patron, whose magnificent generosity provided for the establishment of the Museum's Morris and Eva Feld Chair of Judaica and purchase funds for the Museum's collection. Eva Feld's enthu
 GINSBURG-Lillian. (aka Gainsburgh) Age 90. On March 17, 1997 after a short illness and after a long and fruitful life. Beloved sister of Ruth Harris of Toms River, N.J. Much loved aunt of ten nieces and nephews and great aunt of many grand nieces and grand nephews. Details about her future 
 GRUNES-Ruth. The New York Freudian Society deeply grieves the death of our dear colleague, Dr. Ruth Grunes. She will be missed personally and professionally by the members of our Society, where her important contributions touched many aspects of our lives and functioning. She was Vice Presi
 LASDON-Mildred. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Mildred Lasdon. Mrs. Lasdon, along with her late husband William S. Lasdon, will be long remembered for their generosity and com
 LINSKY-KLEIN-Mollie. On March 17, 1997. Beloved mother of Patricia Linsky Rudick and Ellen Linsky. Mother-in-law of Sam Rudick. Grandmother of Lyris and Charles Mansoor, Daniel Rudick, Jennifer and Jonathan Goodman. Great grandmother of Jake Oren Mansoor. Sister of Florence and Henry Neidic
 MENDELSOHN-Grace V., 89, beloved wife of the late Julian B. Mendelsohn, loving sister of Joseph, Murray, and Marvin Fein and Shirley Sheriff, survived by her son the playwright/screenwriter Julian Barry and grandchildren Sally-Ann, Michael, Jennifer, Julia Barry, and great grandson Calem Pa
 WAXMAN-Sarah (nee Heller). March 12, 1997. ''An angel from heaven sent and back to there she has went.''       
 Lucy Kroll, a longtime New York talent agent whose clients ranged  from Carl Sandburg to James Earl Jones to Norman Mailer, died on Friday at her home in Glendale, Mass. She was 87 and had moved to the Berkshires eight years ago. She sold her Lucy Kroll Agency in late 1994 to Barbar
 ETKIN-Susan Bodner, of complications from a bone marrow transplant in Seattle, WA. On Tuesday, March 18. A most wonderful and loving mother to Jennifer and Benjamin, and devoted wife to Billy. A dear sister of Carolyn. A fantastic woman who will be missed all who knew and loved her. Service
 GOLDMAN-Gertrude. On March 13, 1997. A great lady. Beloved sister of Herbert Goldman and of Michael and Edward Goldman. Sister-in-law of Muriel Goldman. Great aunt of Ashley Goldman. She will always be missed and remembered.       
 LINSKY - KLEIN - Mollie. We mourn the passing of Mollie Klein who for forty years had given us her unquestioned loyalty and dedication. She will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. The Partners and Staff of H. J. Behrman & Co. LLP       
 LYONS-Evelyn. Died peacefully on March 18, 1997 at the age of 85. Loving mother of Ronnie (Debbie), Lloyd (Gerri) and Steve, sister-in-law Soni, cherished grandmother of Debra (Randy), Lori (Jeffrey), Flossie (Jimmy) and Sterling. Adored greatgrandmother of Ara, Elyse, Kylie, Skylar, Gabrie
 WAXMAN-Sarah (nee Heller). March 12, 1997. ''An angel from heaven sent and back to there she has went.''       
 ETKIN-Susan Bodner, of complications from a bone marrow transplant in Seattle, WA, on Tuesday, March 18. A most wonderful and loving mother to Jennifer and Benjamin, and devoted wife to Billy. A dear sister of Carolyn. A fantastic woman who will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Serv
 GOLDMAN-Gertrude. On March 13, 1997. A great lady. Beloved sister of Herbert Goldman. Aunt of Michael and Edward Goldman. Sister-in-law of Muriel Goldman. Great aunt of Ashley Goldman. She will always be missed and remembered.       
 KEMPNER-Barbara. On March 11, in her 95th year. Violinist. Wife of the late Fredrick C. Kempner. Aunt of a multitude of devoted nieces and nephews for whom she served by her example as affectionate guide and musical mentor. Date of memorial celebration to be announced. Memorial contribution
 BORCHARDT-Lilo, M.D., on March 19, 1997. A celebration of her life will be held at the Plaza Hotel, Central Park South, on Wednesday, March 26, from 3PM-5PM. Call 212-586-4394 or 207-583-4921 for more information.       
 GRAF-Genevieve N. On March 19, 1997, at her residence in Greenwich, Conn. Wife of Carl N. Graf. Mother of Elizabeth G. Gaynor, Christine and Alexandra Graf. Sister of Alice Karnavas and Janet Littas. Funeral services will be held Saturday, March 22 at 1 P.M., in the Greek Orthodox Church of
 KEMPNER-Barbara. On March 11, in her 95th year. Violinist. Wife of the late Fredrick C. Kempner. Aunt of a multitude of devoted nieces and nephews for whom she served by her example as affectionate guide and musical mentor. Date of memorial celebration to be announced. Memorial contribution
 PROSNITZ-Gerry. The Board of The Jewish Association of Retired Professionals mourns the passing of its founder and past President. She was a dedicated and tireless leader for many years. We extend our condolences to the family.       
 STAMBOULY-Souria. March 19, 1997. From Brooklyn Heights, NY and Cinnaminson, N.J. Beloved wife of the late Gofril Stambouly. Survived by her brother Izzat Soyegh of Calif, also her nephew and his family, Dr. H. Kelly of Phila. and NJ, many other nephews, nieces, great-nephews, greatnieces. 
 VAILATI-Erminia, at the age of 97, died on March 20, at the Cape Regency Nursing Home in Centerville, MA. She was formerly of Osterville and New York City; wife of the late Anthony Vailati; mother of Josephine Zampedri of New York City and the late Elsie Van Voorhis; mother-in-law of Shephe
 WYLIE-Joan E.A. of Rye and Port Chester, NY. Died March 15, 1997. Artist, poet and sailor. She was 79. Widow of Amos K. Wylie & J. Norman Anderson. Survived by J. Norman A. Wylie, Joan W. Minich, Winifred W. Walden and five grandchildren. Memorial 4/12/97 Rye Presbyterian Church. Donations 
 BENTLEY-JARVIS-Antoinette C. (nee Cozell) age 59 of Far Hills, NJ on Wednesday, March 19, 1997. Wife of Frederick H. Jarvis. Mother of Robert S. Bentley of New York City and Anne W. Bentley of Chevy Chase, MD. Daughter of Rose Vila of Northampton, PA and Joseph Cozell of New Orleans, LA. Al
 CASS-Barbara Lewis, on March 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Lee Cass. Loving sister-in-law to Gertrude and Jack Edzant and May Cass. Devoted aunt to Joan and Raoul Vegosen, Robert and Leah Edzant and Susan and Gordon Lyons. Beloved great-aunt of Leora and Ariel Vegosen and Jonathan, Mic
 CHRISTY-Beverly Morris. Members of the Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital Center mourn the passing of their former President, longtime Executive Secretary and beloved colleague on March 18, in Vero Beach, FL. We'll miss her gracious presence and will long remember gratefully her 38 years of ser
 GREEN-Betty, 81, of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Chicago, March 21. Beloved wife of the late Lenard Stern and devoted spouse of the late Julius Green. Loving mother of Jeffrey and Susan Stern of Scarsdale, NY, and Gail and Michael Lenvin of Santa Monica, CA. Cherished grandmother of Michael 
 HAUPTMAN-Blanche. Of Pompano Beach, FL on March 20, 1997. Beloved wife of Julius, loving mother of Alex and Jerry (Maya), adoring grandmother of Sarah, Ruth, Esther. We'll miss her zest for life, good humor and loving attention to friends and family.       
 HUT-Mina Aborn. Age 90. On March 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Sydney Hut. Mother of Robert and Peter, grandmother of Pamela, Bonnie Hut Yaseen, Robert Jr., Bruce, Rebecca, Lisa Hut and Marc Yaseen. Sister of Louis H. Aborn. We will miss her. Services private. A donation in her memory 
 JANOFF-Mary. Beloved wife of the late Harry Janoff. Devoted mother of Ann Marinoff and Lenore Mandiberg. Mother-in-law of Robert Marinoff and the late Maurice Mandiberg. Loving grandmother of Dr. Gerald Marinoff, Nathalie Marinoff and Susan Marinoff, Judith Mandiberg and the late Rena Mandi
 LASDON-Mildred. Cornell University mourns the passing of a beloved friend and benefactor. Mrs. Lasdon and her late husband William S. Lasdon, are recognized and remembered for their devoted support of medical research and education at the Cornell University Medical College, where the Willia
 MAYPER-Rose. (nee Zide). Died peacefully on March 18th at Jacob Perlow Hospice at age 93. A graduate of NYU Law School, she was Controller at Golding Bros. A woman who challenged the limitations of her times. Wife to the late Samuel. Mother to Fannie Ginsberg and Marcia Mayper. Sister to Be
 PARKES-Mollie. Psychotherapist and clinical social worker, died at home March 21, 1997, after a short illness. Survived by daughters Nancy and Alison, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She was always learning. Among her many loves were books, music, gardening, travel and her 
 RUDIN-Sadie. Beloved wife of the late Harold Rudin. Born Manhattan, December 27, 1903, to Tama Green and Bernard Feldstein. Died Friday, March 21. Loving sister to the late Isador Feldstein, Esq., and Martha. Devoted aunt to three generations of nieces and nephews. Graveside service Beth Da
 SILVER-Nettie, on March 20, 1997. Beloved wife of Lee, cherished sister of Dorothy, Miriam and Bernie, adored mother of Judy & Roberta, devoted grandmother of Noah. Her grace, beauty and brilliance illuminated the lives she touched as teacher and counselor. She helped us all discover our be
 Cynthia Belgrave, who acted in the first New York productions of ''The Blacks'' by Jean Genet and Adrienne Kennedy's ''Funnyhouse of a Negro'' as well as in plays by James Baldwin and Wole Soyinka, died on Feb. 1 at her home in Brooklyn. She was 76. The cause was cancer, said her hu
 BLOCK-Zelda. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns the loss of its beloved staff member and extends deepest sympathy to her family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Jeffrey Scherr, President       
 BORCHARDT-Lilo, M.D., on March 19, 1997. A celebration of her life will be held at the Plaza Hotel, Central Park South, on Wednesday, March 26, from 3PM-5PM. Call 212-586-4394 or 207-583-4921 for more information.       
 DAMAST-Roberta. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Eileen Putterman, President       
 GREEN-Betty, 81, of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Chicago, March 21. Beloved wife of the late Lenard Stern and devoted spouse of the late Julius Green. Loving mother of Jeffrey and Susan Stern of Scarsdale, NY, and Gail and Michael Lenvin of Santa Monica, CA. Cherished grandmother of Michael 
 HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. Of Hollywood, FL, formerly of Merrick, LI. Passed away March 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Moses. Devoted mother of Larry and Francine and Judy and Gene Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Meryl and Mark Nachbar, David Hornstein, Pam and Danny Fried, Jeff and Laurie G
 PARKES-Mollie. Psychotherapist and clinical social worker, died at home March 21, 1997, after a short illness. Survived by daughters Nancy and Alison, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She was always learning. Among her many loves were books, music, gardening, travel and her 
 SEHRES-Edith A. Age 86 years, of Hernando, FL, passed away Sunday, March 9, 1997. She was born in Brooklyn, NY, and came to Hernando, FL, eight years ago from Centerport, Long Island, NY, and St. Croix, Virgin Islands. Mrs. Sehres was the wife of the late Charles Sehres (February 7, 1982). 
 SKOLNICK-Sylvia. March 20, 1997. Manhattan Chapter, B.U.N.W.C., deeply mourns the loss of our beloved and devoted Board Member and most generous contributor to Brandeis. Our heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Manhattan Chapter, B.U.N.W.C. Ethel Kreutzer, President       
 SNEPVANGERS-Hannah K. On March 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Rene Snepvangers. Loving mother of Yseult and Morton Freilicher. Dear sister of the late Samuel R. Kan. Hannah was a gifted and extraordinary French teacher whose personality radiated wit, life and warmth to all who knew her.
 DOMINGO-Isabel. The owners, management and employees of Answer America, all of whom loved and admired her, are deeply saddened by the passing of Isabel Domingo. She will be sorely missed and fondly remembered. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband, David; her daughter, Sarah, an
 GREEN-Betty. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Betty Green, who taught the value of Tzedakah to her family. Her son, Jeffrey Stern, is a leader in the Jewish community and is active in the Wall Street Division Steering Committee. Her daugh
 HORNSTEIN - Gertrude. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished member of its extended family. Gertrude Hornstein, together with her beloved husband, Moses, who served as Chairman of the school's Building Committee, transformed the Boys Town dream into a rea
 LEVENBOOK-Dr. Ruth Spear, died on March 24, 1997 in Raleigh, NC. She was the mother of Kenneth and of Michele Kohler; grandmother of Jennifer and Jeffrey; mother-in-law of Christopher and Barbara; widow of Harry. She was a Doctor in Williamsburgh. Funeral will be held at 2:00 p.m. at Forest
 PECHENIK-Mamie. Born in Brooklyn 1896, lived for the last 35 years in Greenwich Village where she gained recognition as an artist and dressmaker. Mother of six, Harold, Irene Weinberg, Harriet Miller, Sylvia Schulman and the late Albert and Martin. Grandmother of twenty-two, great grandmoth
 SNEPVANGERS-Hannah K. On March 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Rene Snepvangers. Loving mother of Yseult and Morton Freilicher. Dear sister of the late Samuel R. Kan. Hannah was a gifted and extraordinary French teacher whose personality radiated wit, life and warmth to all who knew her.
 Wendy Moore, an artist whose work ranged from installation sculptures to computer-manipulated photographs and drawings, died on Saturday in a hospital in Cleveland. She was 29 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was complications from injuries suffered in a skiing accident 
 Harriet Pratt Morris, a leader in the movement against the death penalty in Georgia and nationwide, died on Sunday at her home in Atlanta. Mrs. Morris, who was known as Patsy, was 66. Her husband, the Rev. John B. Morris, said she died of lung cancer. For some 20 years, firs
 BORCHARDT-Lilo, M.D., on March 19, 1997. A celebration of her life will be held at the Plaza Hotel, Central Park South, on Wednesday, March 26, from 3PM-5PM. Call 212-586-4394 or 207-583-4921 for more information.       
 GOSMAN-Mary Ellen, died on March 23, 1997. Born in Ireland, June 17, 1909. Beloved mother of Roberta, John, Emmett, William and Richard. Another son, Hubert predeceased her. Grandmother of Karin, Robert, Sharon, Diane, John Christopher, Michael, Richard, Bryan, Asa and Lilah. Great grandmot
 STEIN-Dorothy Fracht, 94, Devoted wife of the late Samuel B. Stein, died March 22 at New York University hospital. For more than 50 years, Mrs. Stein was the publisher and president of Chemical Publishing of New York. She is survived by her two nephews, Wallace and Elliot Magaziner, her ste
 RUZA-Irene. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our beloved colleague and friend Irene Ruza. Devoted to Hadassah, Israel and the Jewish people, Irene served as President of the Queens Region and was a member of the National Board for over 20 years. An ardent Zionist, she represented Hadassa
 BOYD-Barry (Seymour). Peacefully on March 23, 1997 at the Montreal General Hospital. Wife of Michael, mother of Amanda, Jamie, Nicola, (Nicholas), grandmother to Seymour and Jeremy. Memorial service notice later. In her memory, donations may be sent to: Home Dialysis Unit, Montreal General 
 COHAN-Carole. On March 26, 1997. Deeply loved mother of Leslie, sister of Felice and friend to many. She was senior vice president at McCann-Erickson, N.Y. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Friday 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made
 ECHLIN-Letitia, on March 1, aged 85 years, in Mexico. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Francis A. Echlin. Loving mother of Vals Osborne of New York, Diana Gillam of London, and Johanna Echlin Bastian of Montreal. Cherished grandmother of Tony, Alessandra, Letitia, Luke, Jane, and Jason. A Memor
 FRIEDMAN-Clara H. Beloved wife of the late Milton, devoted mother of Edward and Gary, loving and loved mother-in-law, grandmother, sister, and aunt, beloved daughter of the late Louis and Dora Handelman. We will remember you and love you always. Funeral services will be held Thursday, March
 GIBB-Barbara Lowrie, 88, passed away, March 25, 1997, at her home in Weybridge, VT. She was born in New York City on January 7, 1909, the daughter of Isabelle Forrest Lowrie and Charles N. Lowrie. She and her husband, Senator Arthur Gibb, moved to Vermont in 1951. She is survived by her hus
 HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County mourns the passing of Gertrude Hornstein, a gracious and beloved friend. She and her late husband, Moses Hornstein, pursued many philanthropic endeavors. Their magnanimity helped make many of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County's dream
 KATZ-Helene. The Social Work Department of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center is saddened by the loss of our dear colleague and friend, Helene Katz. Helene was held in esteemed by all who had the opportunity to work with her. She touched so many lives. We extend heartfelt condolences and
 KLEINER-Barbara, on March 26, 1997. Devoted wife of Jack and beloved mother of Robert, Michael and Richard. She brought happiness to everyone who knew her; and always knew where my brown shoes were. Funeral private.       
 PHILLIPS-Mamie R., 72. Of NYC. Died Monday. Before retiring, she was Vice Principal at Harry S. Truman H.S. in the Bronx. She also worked for the NYC Road Runners Club. Funeral services will be held Thursday at Jenkins Funeral Chapel, 1893 Amsterdam Avenue, at 7 PM. Visiting Thursday 3-7PM.
 SABO-Mildred Catherine, passed away in California on March 23, 1997. Daughter of the late William Ronald and the late Susan Adelia Ronald. She was born in Brooklyn and lived in Lakewood, N.J. Employed at the Dime Savings Bank in Brooklyn until 1974. Wife of Eugene G. Sabo, predeceased by pr
 SPIER-Toby. S/A/R Academy mourns the passing of our dear friend and long time supporter, mother of our graduates, Jonathan, Evan and Debbie Prince. May the entire family be spared further sorrow and find comfort in her memory. Jack C. Bendheim, President SPIER-Toby. Riverdale Jewish
 SPIER-Toby Leah. On March 26, 1997. Loving mother of Jonathan, Evan and Debra. Dear mother-inlaw of Bruce Prince. Adoring grandmother of Zev Prince. Her spirit and love of life will be profoundly missed by all who knew her. Service today, 1:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amste
 STEINMAN-Nettie. Died peacefully on March 26. A leader in her community, she served as president of Hadassah, Manhattan Beach. Beloved mother of Robert and David. Grandmother of Peter and Jonathan. Great grandmother of Sam and Douglas. She will be greatly missed. Services Friday 12:15 P.M.,
 WALSH-Eleanor Wilson. Passed away on March 25th at the age of 86 in Palm Springs, CA. Mother of John and Patrick Walsh; Sister of Suzanne Wilson, Marjorie Wilson O'Neill and Frederick Wilson; Grandmother of Caroline, Laurie, Frederick, Anne and Peter Walsh. Born in Spokane, WA. to Frederick
 Carole Cohan, a senior vice president at McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the advertising agency, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. Ms. Cohan, a resident of Manhattan and Wainscott, L.I., was 54. The cause of death was ovarian cancer, a spokeswoman for McCann-Erickson
 COHAN-Carole. On March 26, 1997. Deeply loved mother of Leslie, sister of Felice and friend to many. She was senior vice president at McCann-Erickson, N.Y. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Friday 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made
 D'OCA-Alyce. On March 27, 1997. Beloved wife of Jack. Loving mother of Dolores Farkas and Dennis D'Oca. Outstanding grandmother of Tracy, Danny, Jessica and Jason. Memorial Service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Saturday at 3 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributi
 LEVINE-Leona. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science notes with deep sorrow the passing of a cherished long-time friend. She shared the passion and vision of her late husband Harry Levine, one of the founding fathers of the Weizmann Institute and its American Committee
 WEISS-Lisa, 93. On March 27. Wife of the late Richard Weiss. Remembered with love by her son Herbert and grandson David, as well as, Roger and Marla Newell, John Anthony Newell, Leslie Sage, and Rachel Corkidhi. Funeral services at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street, on Sund
 Lael Tucker Wertenbaker, a journalist and author best known for ''Death of a Man,'' her harrowing book about her husband's death, died  on Monday at her home in Keene, N.H. She was 87. The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Dr. Christian Wertenbaker. She began her career a
 Marie M. Lambert, who campaigned for Manhattan Surrogate promising to ''clean up the citadel of patronage'' but who retired from the powerful judgeship 12 years later best known as a patronage queen, died on Tuesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan, where
 ANTON-Madeline. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Robert and Susan. Loving motherin-law of Susan and Robert. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Stacey and Nicole. Dear sister of Hortense and Leonard Polott. Services Sunday, 10 A.M., at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Ne
 CUSTIN-Mildred, 91 years old, died at her home in Palm Beach, FL, on March 27, 1997. She is survived by her nieces, Joan V. Custin of N.Y., N.Y. and Barbara (Mrs. Philip) Poverman of Chestnut Hill, MA; a great niece, Myra D. Poverman and two great nephews, Harold and Steven Poverman of Bost
 GARILLI-Anne. Her family and her colleagues at ''Architectural Digest'' mourn the passing, on March 27, 1997 in Staten Island, of a beloved relation and cherished friend. Mentor to many at Conde Nast Publications and ''Architectural Digest''. Her zest for life and incomparable warmth enrich
 HALL-Phyllis Ann. Formerly of New York. Died March 27, 1997 in West Palm Beach, Florida, peacefully and among friends. Survived by her brothers, John J. of Brooklyn, and David R., of New York and Connecticut. Arrangements to follow. (718) 934-1560       
 LAMBERT-The Hon. Marie M. Jerome, Martin and the rest of the Edelman family notes with great sorrow the passing of a truly courageous trail lawyer. Condolences to her devoted son Gregory, as well as the entire family.       
 Marie M. Lambert, who campaigned for Manhattan Surrogate promising to ''clean up the citadel of patronage'' but who retired from the powerful judgeship 12 years later best known as a patronage queen, died on Tuesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan, where
 ADLER-Vivian. The officers, leadership, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Vivian Adler, beloved mother of Robert and mother-in-law of Deanna, longtime and devoted friends of UJA-Federation. Bob is a major supporter of the Apparel Division, and Deanna is an important
 DORFMAN-Ruth. Dearly beloved mother of Joan Busing and Bruce Dorfman. Loving mother in law of David and Willo. Dearest sister of Fay Sonnenreich Trubow. Loving grandmother of Tom, Nora, Lisa, Benjamin and Anna and their families. Services private. DORFMAN-Ruth. My dearest sister Rut
 GREELEY-Tirzah. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Tamara and David. Cherished sisterin-law of Leon and Olga Grilli, adored aunt, great-aunt, cousin and friend. Service at Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Ave., Larchmont. Contributions may be made to Larchmont Hadassah or Larchmont Te
 HALL-Phyllis Ann. Formerly of New York. Died March 27, 1997 in West Palm Beach, Florida, peacefully and among friends. Survived by her brothers, John J. of Brooklyn, and David R., of New York and Connecticut. Arrangements to follow. (718) 934-1560       
 LAMBERT-Hon. Marie M. The New York State Association of Women Judges notes with sincere regret the passing of one its founding members, one of its past presidents and the first woman Surrogate in New York State. LAMBERT-The Hon. Marie M. Jerome, Martin and the rest of the Edelman fa
 LIFSEN-Mabel R. Wife of Albert A. Lifsen, passed away on Friday, March 21, 1997, at Heartland Rehabilitation Center in Boca Raton, Florida, after a long illness. She was born on May 17, 1914, in New York City, the daughter of Fannie and Isidore Rothman. She was a 1978 graduate of Iona Colle
 Ella Maillart, a Swiss sportswoman, adventurer, travel writer and photographer who defied convention, hardship and international borders to explore forbidden territory and forbidding terrain, died on Thursday in her mountain chalet in Chandolin, Switzerland. She was 94. She was the 
 BERNSTEIN-Patricia Morris. On March 29, 1997. Beloved wife of Sumner Bernstein. Devoted mother to Nancy Quitoni and son-in-law Louis and the late James Bernstein and daughter-in-law Joan. Also survived by four loving grandchildren, Vivian, Charles, Katherine and Ashley, and three adoring si
 DASSIN-Miriam. On March 30, 1997. Beloved wife of Gerald. Loving mother of Lev. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., today, Monday, at 1 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to your favorite charity.       
 LAMBERT-The Hon. Marie M. Jerome, Martin and the rest of the Edelman family notes with great sorrow the passing of a truly courageous trail lawyer. Condolences to her devoted son Gregory, as well as the entire family.       
