 FREED-Nancy Lee. Born in New York City on December 11, 1923, died peacefully on Friday, June 28, 2002, in the company of her son Carl Freed, her daughter Jennifer Freed and her partner Rendy Freedman, her sister Jane Kalmus, nephew John Kalmus, her cousin Marie Patrick and her husband Micha
 RAGUS-Susan (nee Campulli). Died quietly and peacefully in her bed at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, NY, at the age of 82 on Thursday, June 27, 2002. The cause of death was complications brought on by Parkinson's Disease. Her husband Joseph Ragus was at her side as she passed away. Susan was
 Rosemary Clooney, whose warm, radiant voice placed her in the first rank of American popular singers for more than half a century, died Saturday night at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Linda Dozoretz
 Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday. Mrs. Cook was 90 and had been in failing health for a decade, said a daughter, Mart
 BROWN - Vivian Audrey. June 29, 2002. Beloved daughter of Lana Beck, the late Dr. Aaron I. Brown and stepfather of the late Julius Beck. Loving sister of Carolyn Meyer, Doug Brown and the late Dr. Ian S. Brown. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral services will b
 McLEES-Mary W. On June 28, 2002. Aged 98 years. Loving sister of the late Msgr. Archibald W. McLees, and the late William J. McLees. Graduate of Adelphi University, class of 1924. Retired teacher for 40 years at Richmond Hill High School, her alma mater. Funeral Tuesday morning. For informa
 NADLER-Annette. On July 1, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Nadler. Devoted mother of David, Gail and the late James Nadler, and motherin-law of Christine. Dear grandmother of Adam and Peter. Adoring aunt to many nieces and nephews. Initial member and lifetime president of Manhattan Gui
 RATNER-Elizabeth M. Suddenly on Friday, June 28, 2002, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of New York, NY, after a long battle with Anorexia Nervosa. Beloved daughter of Victor and Judy Ratner. Loving sister of Deborah Ratner. Cherished granddaughter of Manfred and Sybil Siodmak, Rosalind Ratner and
 SOHVAL-Rita S. On June 30, 2002, at home. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur R. Sohval. Loving mother of Laura and Robert. Cherished grandmother of Sophie and Daniel. She remains in our hearts. Services Wednesday, July 3, Frank E. Campbell - The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st 
 TALCOTT-Patience Perry Ferguson. Passed away June 28, 2002 in her home in Petaluma, California. Beloved wife of the late Vernon H. Talcott and cherished mother to Valerie Talcott Fausone of Petaluma, CA and son Leland Hugh Talcott of Boca Raton, Florida. Patience was devoted grandmother to 
 HOOKER - Joan F. Died peacefully on June 26, 2002 after a prolong illness. Scholar, author, educator, traveller, mother and friend. Former wife of the late Arthur Bowles Hooker. Survived by her son Sam Hooker of Norwalk, Ct., her daughters Wendy Hooker Swift and Martina Kearney Hooker both 
 KALLMAN-Mildred Cox died at home in Locust Valley, NY on June 29, with children beside her. Born in Irvine, KY., daughter of Walter Cox and Annie Allen Elgin. She attended Centre College and the University of Kentucky '41, Kappa Kappa Gamma. Predeceased by James Perry Patton she then marrie
 LESSE-Margaret. Age 88, passed away on June 25. She had an early career on Broadway, later becoming an accomplished artist and sculptress. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Stanley Lesse, eminent neuro-psychiatrist. She will be dearly missed by her many friends and family for her compassion and 
 NADLER-Annette. On July 1, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Nadler. Devoted mother of David, Gail and the late James Nadler, and motherin-law of Christine. Dear grandmother of Adam and Peter. Adoring aunt to many nieces and nephews. Initial member and lifetime president of Manhattan Gui
 SHACHNOW-Peggy. In loving memory. Loving wife, mother, and grandmother. Peggy, your family and friends will have cherished memories of your grace, charm and dignity. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, 1000 Pinebrook Boulevard. SHACHNOW-Peggy. The officers an
 WALKER-Lillian. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 Dr. Alice M. Stewart, an epidemiologist who first demonstrated the link between X-rays of pregnant women and disease in their children, a finding that changed medical practice, died on June 23 in Oxford, England. A resident of the countryside outside Oxford, she was 95. Dr. Stewart,
 CHEN-Yuch-Po (nee Wong). On June 30, 2002. Beloved wife of the late James Chin. Loving mother of Wendy Lien, Liling Chen, Lily Ackert, Liyuen Buesing and Tze Heng Chin. Proud grandmother of 13 grandchildren. Also survived by her three sisters. Family will receive friends at Leo F. Kearns Fu
 SHACHNOW - Peggy. We deeply mourn the loss of our Aunt Peggy Shachnow. She was the closest of Sisters to our mother and a loving Aunt and steadfast friend to us. Linda Smith Richard Lefkowitz       
 BAKER-Belle. On July 3, 2002. Beloved wife of Marvin. Devoted mother of Bill and Robin Baker, Penny and Michael Horgan, Laurie and Drew Rayman and Melissa Baker. Cherished grandmother of Max, Matthew, Zachary, Hayley. Loving sister of Jean Mascia and Sam Abrams. A gracious lady who loved an
 GOODMAN-Suzanne C. The American Friends of The Hebrew University expresses profound regret on the loss of Suzanne C. Goodman. A Chicago Chapter Board Member, former member of the Council of Trustees and longtime supporter of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, her dedication to the Universi
 HAYES-Marie Martin, 73. Of Mudge Pond Road, Sharon, Connecticut. Died July 1, 2002 at Hartford Hospital. She was a long time resident of Port Washington, New York before moving to Sharon, CT 10 years ago. She also maintained a second home in New York City. Mrs. Hayes was born in New Jersey,
 HOWELLS-Muriel Gurdon Seabury. On July 1, 2002, at home in Kittery Point, Maine. Beloved wife of 73 years of William White Howells, survived also by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of New York City, a son, William Dean of Washington, DC, four grandchildren, and three greatgrandchildren. Funeral ser
 O'DELL-Gloria P. Died July 2 at Cabrini Hospice. We will cherish the memory of our dear friend Gloria, who gave selflessly of herself to help and comfort others during her long career at NYU Medical Center. Viewing at Dimiceli & Sons Funeral Home, 182 Lexington Ave., Friday July 5th, 2-5PM 
 BAKER-Belle. On July 3, 2002. Beloved wife of Marvin. Devoted mother of Bill and Robin Baker, Penny and Michael Horgan, Laurie and Drew Rayman and Melissa Baker. Cherished grandmother of Max, Matthew, Zachary, Hayley. Loving sister of Jean Mascia and Sam Abrams. A gracious lady who loved an
 BROWN-Betty. Died peacefully at home in New York City on July 4, 2002, at the age of 95 years. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Brown, her husband of 67 years. Devoted mother of Judge Richard A. Brown and Carolyn Straker, and mother-in-law of Rhoda Brown and Dr. Norman Straker. Loving gran
 GLASSMAN-Harriett S. Died on July 5 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife of Jay Glassman. Mother of Mimi (David) Rukeyser & Julie Glassman. Sister of Susan (Ken) White. Adoring grandmother of Emily and Sara. Harriett was a devoted wife and wonderful mother. She always
 GUNNERSON - PAGE - Mick ey. On Thursday July 4, 2002 died of natural causes after an extended illness. Born in Wilmington, NC, of Carl Gunnerson and Nettie Fern Ellis Gunnerson on February 11, 1932 and raised in New Bern, she attended the University of North Carolina where she began her stu
 BROWN-Betty. Died peacefully at home in New York City on July 4, 2002, at the age of 95 years. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Brown, her husband of 67 years. Devoted mother of Judge Richard A. Brown and Carolyn Straker, and mother-in-law of Rhoda Brown and Dr. Norman Straker. Loving gran
 FISCHER-Ruth. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Ruth Fischer. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 FORSBERG - Beatrice Moore. 86, of Old Greenwhich, CT, on June 16, 2002, of heart failure. Wife of the late Torsten Forsberg. Daughter of Charles and Josephine Engstrom Moore of Washington, DC, and Stockholm, Sweden. She was a founder of the Connecticut Branch of the Humane Society of the Un
 FRANKS-Lydia G. Died peacefully on July 2, 2002 at the age of 90 years. She is survived by her beloved and devoted husband of 70 years of marriage, Andrew, her loving daughter, Joy Catapano, and loving son and daughterin-law, Andrew Jr. and Linda. Lydia was predeceased by her cherished daug
 HERR-Kate Pritchett. Died peacefully June 29, 2002, in Houston, TX, at age 98. A friend, a loving mother, and family matriarch, we will miss her. Son, George Pritchett Herr, and daughter-in-law, Eleanor A. Herr, of Playa del Rey, CA, and four generations survive her. Memorial service at Uni
 LOONAM-Mary E. On July 3, 2002. Former Public Relations Associate for over forty-five years for Blue Cross Blue Shield of greater New York. Beloved aunt of Ellen Frisch, John Loonam, James Loonam and Elizabeth Loonam. Also survived by many grandnieces and grandnephews. For more information 
 ROSEN-Dorothy. On July 4, 2002, at age 95. Devoted, patient and loving wife of Murray Rosen. Dedicated and wise mother of Norma Revman. Loving and proud grandmother of Caren Feingold, Robin and Rick Schottenfeld. Adoring and playful great-grandmother of Michael and Jason Schottenfeld. Inter
 SABEL-Norma. Died July 3, 2002. She was talented, generous, always encouraging and full of irreverent humor. Norma will be deeply missed by her devoted friend, Rose Tasternak and by her cousins Helen, Alice, John, Steve, Margaret, Ruth, Jacob, Kate, William, and Ruby.       
 SPARKS-Lois V. President of Sparks Systems, died June 26, 2002, of cancer. Her upbeat attitude, contagious enthusiasm, and gift for friendship were all legendary. Her determined spirit as a nine year cancer survivor inspired many patients and friends around the world. Survived by parents, C
 WALENTEK - Blanche. On July 4, 2002, at age 72. Beloved mother of Suzanne Travis and Karen Kaplan and her husband Michael. Cherished grandmother of Alexander, Maxwell and James. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday, 5-6 PM. Interment private.       
 BRAUN-Shirley W. Daughter of the late Dean K. and Lucy T. Worcester, of New York City, died in Cambridge, MA, Thursday, June 20, 2002. Sister of Susan W. Light of Suffield, CT, and of the late D.K. Worcester Jr. and Lucy W. Chauncey. Predeceased by her husband, Dr. Edmund M. Braun, but surv
 FRANKS-Lydia G. Died peacefully on July 2, 2002 at the age of 90 years. She is survived by her beloved and devoted husband of 70 years of marriage, Andrew, her loving daughter, Joy Catapano, and loving son and daughterin-law, Andrew Jr. and Linda. Lydia was predeceased by her cherished daug
 GORETSKY-Minnie (Fleischman). July 6, of Swampscott, MA, formerly of Newark and Staten Island. Beloved wife of the late Harry Goretsky. Loving sister of Abraham and Hazel Fleischman of NYC, and the late Adeline and Harry Richer. Cherished aunt of Rosalinda and Marvin Jacobson of Peabody, MA
 GRANT - UNTERBERGER Sarella. 89, of Pembroke Pines, FL (formerly of Miami), passed away on July 6, 2002. She is survived by her beloved daughter Annette Cash, loving grandson David, devoted sister Judy Gomperts, nieces Phyllis Cheskin and Jane Rosenthal and Claude. We will all miss her.    
 HERZ-Elise M. A longtime resident of Larchmont, NY, passed away on Sunday, July 7, 2002, at home. She was 85 years old. She was the widow of John W. Herz. Survivors include her son Andrew and daughter-in-law Jill of Larchmont, son James and daughter-in-law Jane of Webster Grove, MO, son Wil
 HOWELLS-Muriel Gurdon Seabury. On July 1, 2002, at home in Kittery Point, Maine. Beloved wife of 73 years of William White Howells, survived also by a daughter, Gurdon Metz of New York City, a son, William Dean of Washington, DC, four grandchildren, and three greatgrandchildren. Funeral ser
 McBRIDE-Rita. 77, of New York City, died July 3, 2002, at Calvary Hospital in Bronx, NY. Born December 14, 1924, in Lynn, MA, she was the daughter of the late William and Annabelle Girardin McBride of Easton, PA. She was a graduate of Easton High School in 1942 and of the College of New Roc
 WALENTEK - Blanche. On July 4, 2002, at age 72. Beloved mother of Suzanne Travis and Karen Kaplan and her husband Michael. Cherished grandmother of Alexander, Maxwell and James. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday, 5-6 PM. Interment private.       
 Margaret E. Lynn, who directed the Army's extensive worldwide theatrical program, which encouraged participation by soldiers, officers and their dependents, died on June 11 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 81 and lived in Reston, Va. The cause was lung cancer, said Donn B. Murp
 ABOFF-Celia. Died in Ft. Lauderdale on July 4, 2002 at the age of 87. Beloved mother of Bruce and sister-in-law of Tess; cherished aunt of Stanley, Nancy, Stephen, and David, and great aunt of Jill and Michelle, Alexandra and Peter, Randy and Allison, and David; adoring great-great aunt of 
 JOSEPH-Clara (nee Klein). On July 6, 2002 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Herman, devoted mother of Lawrence and Susan. Cherished grandmother of Miranda, Harlan, and Galen. Loving mother-in-law of Ellen. We will miss and not forget her. Services Tuesday 10:30 A.M. at ''Schwartz Brothers
 NEUMANN-Edith. Microbiologist. 100. Passed away on June 29, 2002. She is survived by her cousins Hanna Beck of Zurich, Switzerland, Friedel David, of London, England, and many friends and distant relatives who will always remember her love, strength and inspiration. Interment is private. A 
 SHOR-Belle. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 SOLOMON-Sally. On July 7, 2002. Beloved wife of Herb, beloved mother of Francine and Laura, beloved sister of Paule and beloved grandmother of Brian. Funeral services today, July 9, 2PM, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel at 91st St and Amsterdam, NYC. Her love and guidance will never be forg
 SORIA-Dorle, Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Peter Neustedter, Parnas       
 STRATFORD-Helen Louise (nee Moore). Passed away in Seminole, Florida on Thursday, June 20, 2002. The wife of the late Roland L. Stratford and daughter of the late William Milroy and Christine Eversmann Moore. She is survived by her nephew Gregory Todd Moore of N. Canton, Ohio. Services and 
 BARBASH - Phyllis Susen. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the death of Phyllis Susen Barbash, Director of Education at Carnegie Hall, 1994-2001. Phyllis led the educational work of Carnegie Hall to a level of activity and excellence unparalleled in its nonprofit history. She initi
 BOYLE-Therese Geraldine. Gerry Boyle, 68, of La Quinta, CA died Saturday, July 6, 2002, after a long and courageous fight against cancer. Gerry had a warm, pleasant nature and was a friend to everyone she met. She will be remembered for her generous love and kindness, and her inspiration of
 GLASHOW-Judith Magill. Of Saddle River, NJ, and Boca Raton, FL. She was a graduate of Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, NY. She is survived by her husband Dr. Jules, daughter Jamie Pardell, sons Dr. Jonathan and Jeffrey, grandchildren Logan and Connor Pardell. Services are Thursday, 11 
 HAAS-Dorothy (Babs) Marston. Wife of George C. Haas, Jr. of Lake Worth, FL died on July 9th after a long illness. She is survived by three daughters, Susan Orthwein of Stamford, CT, Judith Eshelman of Putney, VT and Sally Anne Colbert of Weston, CT as well as six grandchildren. Services wil
 HATTERSLEY - Virginia Luke. On June 27, 2002 at her home in Sarasota, FL. Born September 23, 1909. Longtime resident of Locust Valley, New York. Beloved wife of the late Robert C. Hattersley and mother of Julie Righter, Melissa Schnirring, Robert C. Jr. and the late John G. Grandmother of s
 KAPLAN-Madlyn S. (nee Shub). Adored wife of Lawrence. Beloved mother of Bill (future mother-in-law of Susan Collum) and Rachel. Devoted grandmother of Patricia Lynn Kaplan. Loved and admired by all who knew her. The world is diminished by her passing. Services 2:15 PM at I.J. Morris, Inc., 
 KRAMER-Ruth. Beloved mother of Paul, Bren, Michael, Mark, grandmother of David, Jeffrey, Nina, Brian, Elliot, Aurora, Arielle, Melinda, great grandmother of Kelsey, Lindsay, Michaela, mother-in-law of Jennifer, Helen, Steve, grandmotherin-law of Duncan and Sophia and wife of the late Harry 
 NEUMANN-Edith, Ph.D. nee Spitzer. Microbiologist. Born Vienna, Austria, May 26, 1902, died on June 29, 2002, NYC. She was an inspiration to her many friends with her interests in human concerns, science, and the arts to the very end. She will be missed dearly. May she rest in peace. Trude, 
 STRATFORD-Helen Louise (nee Moore). Passed away in Seminole, Florida on Thursday, June 20, 2002. The wife of the late Roland L. Stratford and daughter of the late William Milroy and Christine Eversmann Moore. She is survived by her nephew Gregory Todd Moore of N. Canton, Ohio. Services and 
 FRITCHEY-Mary Knowles. On July 9, 2002, at her home in Washington D.C. Born June 28, 1912. Beloved wife to Frank Gardiner Wisner and later to Clayton Willis Fritchey. Mother to Frank, Ellis and Graham Wisner and to Elizabeth Hazard. She is also survived by seven grandchildren and three grea
 LUBOW-Miriam. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York and West Palm Beach, Florida, on July 8th, 2002 in Nashville, Tennessee. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, dear friend and relative who will be deeply missed by those who knew her.       
 ORNSTEIN-Elaine. On July 10th, 2002. Beloved wife of Maurice. Devoted mother of Debra, Michelle and Michael. Mother-in-law of Anne Ornstein, Robert Jacobs and Nati Pinko. Proud grandmother of Gilad, Hannah, Leetol and Jake. Daughter of Arthur Kessler. Sister of Melvin Kessler. She was a qua
 SORIA-Dorle. The Board and Staff of The Metropolitan Opera Guild are deeply saddened by the death of Dorle Soria. As a press representative, writer, and recording executive, Dorle was a keen participant in the musical life of New York. The wife of our late Managing Director, Dario Soria, sh
 ZIMMERMAN-Helen Blatte. On July 10, 2002, of Somers, NY, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Loving mother of Marc Blatte, David Blatte and Lisa Blatte Ennis. Grandmother of Hayley Blatte and Bryce Ennis. She was an avid tennis player and lover of classical music, mysteries, tra
 BEAL-Rose Sedlis, 107 years old. Of Coconut Creek, FL., formerly of Brookline, MA. died July 11, 2002. Vital until her last moments, she was a devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Rose was an extraordinary woman who deeply inspired us all. Her impact on our lives has bee
 KATZ-Ada. On July 9, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Devoted mother of Gloria Winter and Melvin Katz. Cherished grandmother of Laurie, Rhonda, Stephen & Leslie. Great-grandmother of eight. Dear sister of Rose Silverman. She lived a long and happy life.       
 MICHELSON-Frances. The Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Frances Michelson. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres.       
 SORIA-Dorle. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our dear friend Dorle Soria, a member of the association from 1981 & then an advisory director from 1983 until last year. Along with her late husband Dario, she helped develop the Met's Historic Broadcast Collection of live recordings.
 TATE-Barbara. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Council for the Humanities mourn the loss of Barbara Tate, a member of the Council's Board for several years. Our deepest sympathy goes to her family.       
 WOLF-Margareta (Greta) nee Langer. Widow of and devoted assistant to the late Dr. Max Wolf, the well known dermatologist, died peacefully at her home on July 11, 2002. A resident of New York City since 1941, Greta was born in Vienna in 1902. Services are private. Her closest survivors, sist
 Dorle Jarmel Soria, who was a co-founder of Angel Records in the course of her long and varied career in the classical music business, died on July 7 at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. In 1953, Mrs. Soria and her husband, Dario, founded Angel Records as an American distribution 
 KIPNESS-Katherine. On July 11, 2002 at age 60. Beloved wife of Ira. Loving mother of Jennifer, Danielle, Jani, Michael and Robert. Adoring grandmother and dear sister. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Monday 1:30PM. Interment private. Contributions in h
 MAREL-Ray (nee Schnitzer). On July 11, 2002. Beloved wife of William for 64 wonderful years. Adored mother of Marjorie Cahn and Dr. Rozanne Pollack. Dear motherin-law of Dr. Dean Saluti and William Pollack. Cherished grandmother of Nancy and Susannah Cahn and Andrea & Rebecca Pollack. Devot
 Maritta M. Wolff, a novelist who burst onto the literary scene in 1941 with what Sinclair Lewis called ''the most important novel of the year'' and proceeded to write a string of vibrantly raw best sellers, died on July 1 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 83. The novel, ''Whistle 
 BERGMAN-Adeline. At age 85. Widow of her beloved husband Dr. Harry W. Bergman. Proud mother of Rabbi Abner and Dr. Sander Bergman. Caring mother-in-law of Linda and Sandra. Devoted grandmother of Harris, Suellen, Joshua, Marnie and Jonah. Donations in her memory may be made to the Holocaust
 BISGYER-Pauline Steckler (nee Brenner). On July 12, 2002, of Hewlett, NY and Delray Beach, FL. Graduate of New York University. Loving wife of Melville L. for 40 years and the late William Steckler. She is survived by her adored and adoring children, Margery Gogel (William) and Robert M. St
 ENGELSTEIN - Phima. On July 11, 2002, of congestive heart failure, at the age of 82. She is survived by her husband of sixty years, Stanley, her brother Irving Greenfield, her children Laura, Daniel and Larry, her daughters-in-law Karen Levinson and Celia Radek, and four grandchildren, Max,
 FRITCHEY-Mary Knowles. On July 9, 2002, at her home in Washington D.C. Born June 28, 1912. Beloved wife to Frank Gardiner Wisner and later to Clayton Willis Fritchey. Mother to Frank, Ellis and Graham Wisner and to Elizabeth Hazard. She is also survived by seven grandchildren and three grea
 FUNSTON-Elizabeth Kennedy. Widow of G. Keith Funston, former President of Trinity College of Hartford, CT., and The New York Stock Exchange, died at Hope Hospice in Fort Meyers, FL, on June 15, 2002. Betty Funston, the daughter of John Joseph & Marguerite Scott Kennedy, of Pittsburgh, PA., 
 KIPNESS-Katherine. On July 11, 2002 at age 60. Beloved wife of Ira. Loving mother of Jennifer, Danielle, Jani, Michael and Robert. Adoring grandmother and dear sister. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Monday 1:30PM. Interment private. Contributions in h
 KITTAY-Muriel. The Congregation of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We express our deepest sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President       
 MAREL-Ray (nee Schnitzer). On July 11, 2002. Beloved wife of William for 64 wonderful years. Adored mother of Marjorie Cahn and Dr. Rozanne Pollack. Dear motherin-law of Dr. Dean Saluti and William Pollack. Cherished grandmother of Nancy and Susannah Cahn and Andrea & Rebecca Pollack. Devot
 OSBORNE-Elizabeth Beam. Age 96, died July 10, 2002 in Lenox, MA. Born Mary Elizabeth Beam in New Jersey on October 13, 1905, Mrs. Osborne graduated with honors from Smith College in 1926, where she was President of her class, and from Yale Law School in 1930. She was the first woman employe
 POWELL-Cecile V.K. Of McLean, VA, and late of Bayside, NY, on March 28, 2002, at age 94 of natural causes. Beloved wife of the late J. Richard Powell; loving and devoted mother of J. Richard Powell Jr. of McLean, VA. She was preceded in death by her daughter Madeline Harriet Martin. She is 
 SMITH-Lily. On July 12, 99 years. Devoted wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. She leaves her children Jerry Kaufman and Carol Goldberg, son-in-law Arthur Goldberg, grandchildren Mark, Penny, Beth and Josh and great-granddaughter Samantha. A charismatic and youthful woman, she will
 WENNIK-Simone M. On July 10, 2002, beloved wife of Carlos Vanegas, devoted daughter of Dr. Janet Wennik, and loving sister of Joel Wennik. Also survived by other relatives & friends. She will be remembered by all who knew her.       
 BARKAN-Betty Of North Miami Beach, FL, passed away July 13, 2002. She was 96. She is survived by her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. We will always love and miss you.       
 FLEIT-Estelle. Died July 13, 2002. Beloved wife of Sol, devoted mother of Howard and Jeffrey and mother-in-law to Shelley. Adoring grandmother of Rachel and David. Her radiant smile will live with us forever.       
 FRIEDMAN-Rhoda. Beloved wife of the late Moe. Cherished mother of Diane and Richard, Helene, David and Amy. Adored nanny to Allison, Daniel, Carly, Jeremy and Peter. Loving sister to Saul, Vita, Alvin and Ray. She touched all who knew her.       
 KOPPELMAN-Sarah Levy. Of Tenafly, NJ. Five days shy of her 70th birthday. Died after a valiant eight year battle with ovarian cancer on July 13. Beloved mother of Lisa Tames, Suzanne Koppelman and Janet Koppelman. Devoted grandmother to Emma Tames, Jacqueline Tames, and Jenna Katz. A dedica
 MAXWELL-Lilian. 87, of Decatur, GA, died July 14, 2002. She is survived by daughters, Jane Brown (Rick), Decatur, and Rory Maxell, NYC; grandchildren Benjamin and Molly. Graveside service July 16, 1 PM, at King Solomon Cemetery, Clifton, NJ. Contributions may be made to the charity of one's
 BOASI-Veronica. On July 13. Esteemed professional and volunteer. Known for sharp wit, dignity and the help she gave to everyone. Beloved by friends, sister of Rita and Claire, deceased parents and brother, Louis. Visitation July 16 at Guido Funeral Home, 440 Clinton St., Brooklyn. Mass of C
 FISHMAN-Adeline (nee Siegel). Beloved wife of her late husband George. Cherished mother of Richard (and Corinne) Fishman and Phyllis (and George) Lantos. Adored grandmother of Mandy and Lauren Fishman and Josh and Ben Lantos. Died July 14, 2002 at 91 years of age. Her extended family was bl
 KOPPELMAN-Sarah Levy. Of Tenafly, NJ. Five days shy of her 70th birthday. Died after a valiant eight year battle with ovarian cancer on July 13. Beloved mother of Lisa Tames, Suzanne Koppelman and Janet Koppelman. Devoted grandmother to Emma Tames, Jacqueline Tames, and Jenna Katz. A dedica
 LYON-Nina (Miller). Died July 14 in Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Delray Beach, Florida and Scarsdale, New York. Beloved wife of the late William W. Lyon. Member of the Huguenot Society and the National Society of Colonial Dames. She is survived by her son William W. Lyon III of Rohnert Park,
 NOBLE-Ruth S. Of Great Neck (formerly Valley Stream) on July 13, 2002 in her 82nd year. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Cherished mother of Larry (Rosemarie) and Steven (Carol). Devoted grandmother of David, Abby, Jonathan and Adam. Dear sister of Toby and sister-inlaw of Alfred, Muriel, L
 RUBIN-Maxine, 78. Died at home in Lawrenceville, NJ. Formerly of Englewood, NJ. Devoted wife of Leonard for over 52 years. Beloved mother of William A. (Susan), Brian F., Deborah A. (fiance Eric). Maxine touched us all with her grace and dignity, and set the loving tone for our family life.
 RUBIN-Mollie K. of Rockville Center. Beloved mother of Joan and Steve, grandmother of Karen and David, greatgrandmother of Rachel, mother-in-law of Richard and Jean. Former NYC teacher, Director of Camps Onota, Rosemont and Roselake. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her.       
 SCHER-Sylvia. Beloved wife of Bob for nearly 61 years. Adored mother of Ellen and Moshe. Loving Grandma to Avi and Ricky. Devoted sister to Esther and Harold. A very special aunt and friend to all. She died peacefully in her sleep on July 15, 2002 after a long and valiant struggle with Alzh
 STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. On July 15, 2002 at home, with dignity and grace, surrounded by her family. Wife of the late Max Stern and the late Nathan Lindenbaum. Mother of Marcel (Belda), Maidy (Maurice), Armand (Jean), the late Henry (Ruth), Leonard Stern (Allison), Gloria Kisch, and the late
 WALSH-Ann Virginia Watson. Beloved mother of Gloria, Brooke, Hughes deWitt and Thomas deWitt, died suddenly on Saturday, July 13, 2002, at the age of 70. She was preceded in death by her husband, Thomas deWitt Walsh. She is survived by her grandchildren, Brisa, Julian, Jonothan and Martin. 
 Mary Knowles Fritchey, whose fund-raising and support for the Kennedy Center, the Phillips Collection and other cultural institutions helped make Washington a center for the arts, died on July 9 at her home in Washington. She was 90. In 1965, Ms. Fritchey became one of the first fun
 BORDEN-Barbara Zimmer de Jurenev. Of Tryon, NC passed away peacefully in her sleep on July 11, 2002 in her 98th year. Barbara is survived by her daughter, Nicole de Jurenev of Santa Fe, NM, her niece, Virginia Zimmer of New York City, and her stepsons, Phillip Borden of Laughlin, NV, & Chri
 FALB-Harriet M. Died July 14. There is a great loss of a lifelong campaigner for human rights and world peace. Much loved by her family and friends, who will have a memorial in celebration of her life at Long Beach Terrace, 430 Shore Road, Long Beach, at 1 PM, on Thursday, July 18. In lieu 
 HIRSCHBERG - Alva. Of Manhattan, on July 16, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John Schmeidler and Leo Hirschberg, loving mother of Arnold Schmeidler and his wife Kate, adoring grandmother (Omah) of Andrew and Lynn and her husband Gregg, tender great-grandmother of Jonah and Eva, devoted siste
 MILLARD - Liselotte (nee Flemming) (von Falkenhayn). Our beloved mother, most cherished grandmother, dear mother-in-law and grandmother-in-law passed after a long and courageous fight against Multiple Myeloma on Monday evening, July 15, 2002. The service will be held at 11 AM Saturday, July
 SCHER-Sylvia. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Sylvia Scher, a cherished friend of UJAFederation. As former chair of our Women's Campaign in New Rochelle, Mrs. Scher expressed her deep commitment to Jewish and hum
 STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. On July 15, 2002 at home, with dignity and grace, surrounded by her family. Wife of the late Max Stern and the late Nathan Lindenbaum. Mother of Marcel (Belda), Maidy (Maurice), Armand (Jean), the late Henry (Ruth), Leonard Stern (Allison), Gloria Kisch, and the late
 WALSH-Ann Watson. The officers & employees of Brown Harris Stevens are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague, Ann Watson Walsh, on Saturday, July 13, 2002. Our sincerest condolences to her 4 children, Gloria, Hughes, Brooke & Thomas; her 4 grandchildren; & her sister Lorraine Dietz.
 Ghity Lindenbaum Stern, whose philanthropy benefited educational institutions in the United States and Israel, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Mrs. Stern had been honorary chairman of the board of directors of Yeshiva University's Stern College for Women. It was
 EMMET-Vivian. Loved by four generations of family and friends. Respected for her brilliance, wit and leadership by a grateful community. Adored by the three men in her life-Harry, Richard & Walter-and by her children Judith and Morton Sloan, Joan Wexler, Jeffrey Silverson; grandchildren Dou
 GOLDEN-Ray Reider. Beloved mother of Eric and Rachel Golden, daughter of Sidney and the late Shirley Reider, sister of Franklin Reider, on July 15th, 2002. Services to be held at the Congregation B'Nai Jeshurin, 257 West 88th Street, NYC, on July 18, 1 PM. Contributions to the charity of on
 MINTZ-Leah, nee Schloss. Of Eastchester, NY, formerly of Baltimore, MD. Passed away July 13th, her 88th birthday. she is survived by her husband Sol, her daughter Rebecca Klein of Mercer Island, WA, her grandchdildren, Sara, Lindsay and Daniel Klein, & sister Bette Rankin. Burial took place
 NEMIROFF - Helene. The Manhattan Institute for Psychoanalysis and The Trauma Treatment Center mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Helene Nemiroff. We extend our sympathy to her husband David and to her son Larry. Our community will miss her gracious presence.       
 RUBMAN-Beatrice. On July 17, 2002. Her strength inspired us all. Husband George, children Ellen, Leslie, Judy and Marc. Grandchildren Adam, Max, Molly, Lauren, Harry & Alec. Services on Friday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her memory may be made to:
 BERGMAN-Charlotte. The Officers and Directors of The American Friends of the David Yellin College of Education record with deep sorrow the death of a great lady, patron of the arts, and major supporter of The College in Jerusalem. She has left us a lasting memorial which will live on in the
 GILLENSON-Bernice. On July 18, 2002. Survived by her children Wendy, Josh and Amy. Grandchildren Katharine and Jonathan.       
 GOODMAN-Barbara S. Fifty-one years old, after a valiant fight against pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of 25 years to Kenneth. Devoted and adored mother of Nicole and Eric. Dedicated daughter of Thelma Gartner, daughterin-law of Dorothy Goodman, sister-in-law of Linda and Robert Blum. Much l
 KAPLAN-Sylvia. Died on July 18, 2002, at her home in Palm Beach, FL. She was 100 years old. Born in New York, she spent most of her life in New Jersey before moving to Florida 30 years ago. Sylvia was the greatly loved wife of the late Harold Kaplan for 68 years; the beloved mother of Harol
 MILLARD-Liselotte. July 15, 2002 in New York. We mourn the passing of Liselotte after a long and courageous fight. Her will to live has been an inspiration to us all. George and Marsha Crawford, stepdaughter; Dini, William and Charles von Mueffling, stepchildren; and Tatiana, step granddaug
 MOSES-Anita. After a long illness, passed away at the age of 67, on July 18, 2002. Beloved mother of Marc and Elan, daughter of the late Leah and Henry Krochmal. Sister of Helen Klein and Stanley Krochmal. A well known educational consultant, she was a Co-Founder in 1968 of the Children's C
 POPOVIC-ANA. We mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and colleague. Ana was a vibrant personality and dedicated professional. We shall miss her greatly. H.F. International Realty Ltd. Helene Fields, President POPOVIC-Ana. Suddenly on July 16, 2002. Beloved sister of Sanja. 
 SCHACHTER - Ruth, 94. Passed away peacefully on July 18, 2002. Survived by her loving family, Barbara and Jerry Shefsky, grandchildren and great - grandchildren. Graveside services will be held Friday, July 19, 2002 at 2:00 P.M., at Mount Moriah Cemetery, in Fairview, NJ. SCHACHTER-
 SHUFRO-Sara. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Jacob (Yock). Devoted mother of Joan and Paul Rosenblatt, Leslie and Bernard Friedman. Dear sister of Mary Kantrowitz and the late Irving, Lee, Ethel, Peggy and Ralph. Loving grandmother of Abram and Kathryn, David and Celia, Teri and 
 STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. Yeshiva University Women's Organization (YUWO) expresses sorrow upon the passing of its devoted friend and honorary National Board member Ghity Stern. A generous and dedicated supporter, she was honored by YUWO at its 63rd Annual Spring Luncheon in 1991. Proceeds hel
 TOPOL-Ruth Tedi. Mrs. E. Raymond Topol known to all as Tedi passed away Monday morning, July 15 2002. Tedi, wife of Dr. E. Raymond Topol, was known for her sense of humor and her love of life. She was a member of the Elmwood Country Club, a former president of the Women's Metropolitan Golf 
 CAHOON-Judith A. To have known her is to be enriched with the joys of life. Judy Cahoon, of Chappaqua, NY, died at home at the age of 58 on July 17, 2002. Judy was the beloved wife of Will Cahoon. She was born May 20, 1944, in Mineola, NY, to the late Marion and Ed Wunneke. A creative desig
 SHUFRO-Sara. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Jacob (Yock). Devoted mother of Joan and Paul Rosenblatt, Leslie and Bernard Friedman. Dear sister of Mary Kantrowitz and the late Irving, Lee, Ethel, Peggy and Ralph. Loving grandmother of Abram and Kathryn, David and Celia, Teri and 
 STERN-Ghity. Erica Jesselson and family are saddened by the passing of our life long friend, Ghity Stern. We fondly remember working with her, Luddy and Max on many good causes together. We will always remember her elegance & style. We extend our heartfelt wishes of condolence to the entire
 BERGMAN-Charlotte. A woman of valor passed away at her home in Jerusalem on July 17, 2002 after an extended illness. Charlotte exemplified a unique combination of dignity, philanthropy and enthusiastic advocacy of the arts together with love and respect for her extended family of numerous f
 BROWNE-Maura I. On July 18, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Peter and Mary. Cherished sister of Sheila, Robert and Peter. Beloved aunt to all her nieces and nephews. Extraordinary friend. A memorial mass will be said at 11AM, August 24th at Saint Joseph's Church of Yorkville, 404 East 87
 CALLMANN-Dr. Ellen. Art Historian and good friend, died quietly in her home on Friday, July 12th. She will be remembered fondly and with admiration by her family, friends and colleagues, and especially by Jephtha, Katherine and Linet. We are gathering to celebrate her life this coming Monda
 GOLDEN-Ray Reider. Wise, generous, thoughtful, caring friend and neighbor; loving and nurturing mother to Rachel and Eric; caring friend and teacher to budding artists who experienced the joy of creating with Ray. We are grateful for the privilege of sharing her beauty, truth, dignity and e
 GRONOWETTER - Adeline. Died peacefully on Thursday, July 18, 2002, at the age of 91. Loving wife of the late Frank Gronowetter. Mother of Arlene, Rita and son-in-law Fred. Grandmother of Debbie Edelstein, and the late David Silberman. Greatgrandmother of Alex, Spencer and Danielle. Sister o
 HICKEY-Lillian F. 93, on July 19, 2002. Born and lived in Brooklyn from 1909 until 1994. She had been employed as a personnel manager for General Accident Co Inc, NYC, from 1932-1974. Beloved aunt of Richard E. Hickey, Marie Breslin and Eileen Mosier, great-aunt of many, and great - great -
 LINDENBAUM STERN-Ghity. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Ghity Lindenbaum Stern, adored mother of long standing Board member Armand Lindenbaum and mother-in-law of Jean. Our hearts and prayers are with them and with Mrs. Stern's other children, her 
 POPOVIC-Ana. Suddenly on July 16, 2002. Beloved sister of Sanja. Loving aunt of Marco. Best friend to Yaga. Good friend to so many. Celebration of her life service on Monday, July 22, 6PM at the Church of the Holy Trinity, 316 E. 88 St, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, donations to North Shore Anim
 SHUFRO-Sara. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Jacob (Yock). Devoted mother of Joan and Paul Rosenblatt, Leslie and Bernard Friedman. Dear sister of Mary Kantrowitz and the late Irving, Lee, Ethel, Peggy and Ralph. Loving grandmother of Abram and Kathryn, David and Celia, Teri and 
 STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. The Advisory Council of the NY Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of a philanthropic, kind and beautiful lady widow of one of our founders and mother of our esteemed President, Armand Lindenbaum. May her memory be for a blessing. Mortimer Propp, Chair Advisory Counci
 Edith Merrill Bancroft, a patron of the arts and the widow of Harding F. Bancroft, a vice chairman of The New York Times Company, died last Monday at her home in Washington. She was 90. Edith Hall was born in Atlanta on April 17, 1912. She was the daughter of William Claiborne Hall,
 MARSHALL - Lorna Jean. Died July 8, 2002, at her home in New Hampshire at age 103. Noted anthropologist.       
 MILLER-Beverly Potter Navarro. 72, San Francisco. Beverly Potter Navarro Miller, a respected member of the fashion and jewelry industries, died at the Jewish Home for the Aged in San Francisco on July 18, 2002, after a long illness of Alzheimer's Disease. She was born Beverly Lubinsky on Ju
 NAUGHTON-Kenneth W. Of Cliffside Park, NJ, formerly of Blauvelt, NY, died on July 19, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Arlene. Devoted father of Lorraine Manganiello and her husband Robert of Blauvelt, and Theresa Esposito of Middletown, NY. Loving grandfather of James and Theresa Esposito
 STERN-Ghity. Erica Jesselson and family are saddened by the passing of our life long friend, Ghity Stern. We fondly remember working with her, Luddy and Max on many good causes together. We will always remember her elegance & style. We extend our heartfelt wishes of condolence to the entire
 TISCH-Frances. On July 20, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Frank. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. We will miss her.       
 MALAWER-Sylvia, age 98, on Sunday July 21 at her home in Silver Spring, MD, after a long and enriched life. Beloved wife of the late Jack Malawer. Loving mother of the late Sidney J. Malawer (Carol) and Donald (Susan) Malawer. Cherished grandmother of Judith (Kyle) Walker, Leslie (Chris) Ke
 RAPPAPORT-Bernice (Bunny). It is with deep sadness that we announce the untimely passing of Bunny. She was loved and adored by husband Arnold, daughter Lynn, son Jay, daughter-in-law Harriet, granddaughters Julie and Katie and countless friends and family. We are all deeply affected by this
 ANNE PASTERNAK, the executive director of Creative Time, is stepping gingerly in beaded flip-flops inside the roofless shell of a 19th-century tobacco warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront. The vast structure of brick walls, with its open-air arches, looks like a Roman aqueduct, except this 
 RAUCHER-Mary Kathryn. Beloved wife of Herman, adored mother of Jacqueline Leigh Salkin and Jennifer Brooke Raucher, revered grandmother of Samantha Raucher Salkin and Jamie Leigh Salkin, devoted mother-in-law of Will Salkin, left us on July 21, fighting her cancer to the final bell. A super
 RIKER-Anne T. ''Nancy'' (Cox). 91, of Weston, MA, formerly of NYC, July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Samuel Riker who died in 1970. She is survived by her daughter Anne T. Buttrick of Concord, MA and sons, Samuel of Tuckers Town, Bermuda and Robert T. of Sarasota, FL. She also leaves her sist
 SLOBODKINA URQUHARTEsphyr, a founding member of the American Abstract Artists, and renowned author/illustrator, died in her home at the age of 93 of natural causes on Sunday, July 21, 2002. A memorial service will be held this fall.       
 WILLIFORD-Catherine, age 73, died Sunday, July 21 at Long Island College Hospital. She is survived by her daughters, Lois, Karen and Alvina; her sons, Wayne, Dennis and John; her stepmother Ruth, eight grandchildren and countless other loving family and friends.       
 WYLER-Marjorie Goldwasser, 86, of New York City and Westport, CT. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died July 22, 2002 at Norwalk Hospital of respiratory failure. A distinguished public relations professional, she was a pioneer in the presentation of Judaism to the American 
 KASSLER-Jeanne, M.D. On July 23, 2002. Beloved wife of Robert Meyers, M.D. Loving mother of Charlie and Jeremy. Dear daughter of Regina Golieb. Service Friday, 11AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. KASSLER-Dr. Jeanne. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the untimely deat
 LEWIS-Martha. Age 81. Died on Tuesday, just after noon, July 23, 2002. She was the Financial Director of the Child Welfare League of America and a New York City school teacher. She is survived by her children Edward and Deborah, and her sister Flora, at whose home a memorial service will be
 MILICI-Frances Marie D'Amato. 73, beloved wife of Anthony J. Milici, Sr., of Wallingford, CT. Beloved mother of Anthony J. Milici, Jr., David J. Milici, Janet Marie Milici Lewis and Robert R. Lewis, adoring grandmother of Rand, Marjorie, Anthony and Helen, loving sister of Agnes Chartier, J
 RIKER-Anne T. ''Nancy'' (Cox). 91, of Weston, MA, formerly of NYC, July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Samuel Riker who died in 1970. She is survived by her daughter Anne T. Buttrick of Concord, MA and sons, Samuel of Tuckers Town, Bermuda and Robert T. of Sarasota, FL. She also leaves her sist
 STAVROPOULOS - Ethel. Age 89 of Mendham, NJ (formerly of Jamaica Estates, NY and owner of Hillside Florist Inc.) on Sunday July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Gus. Mother of Sylvia Christakos and her husband, Manny of Mendham and the late Rev. Germanos Stavropoulos, former beloved Chancellor of
 WYLER-Marjorie Goldwasser, 86, of New York City and Westport, CT. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died July 22, 2002 at Norwalk Hospital of respiratory failure. A distinguished public relations professional, she was a pioneer in the presentation of Judaism to the American 
 BURNESS-Daphne F. July 25, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leonard Burness. Adored sister of the late Martin E. Fenton. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 DANN-Nancy N. Of Sag Harbor, NY, formerly of New York City, on July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Robert Roy Dann. Survived by her sister, N. Cyril Herzfeld and her nieces, Elizabeth L. Herzfeld and Suzanne Ferguson. Interment private.       
 FENHAGEN-Margaret McCann ''Margo''. Age 63, of Pound Ridge, N.Y., died July 24, 2002. Wife of William E. Fenhagen. She is also survived by her children Carolin I. Raleigh, Laura I. Imrie and Douglas P. Irwin. Sister of Franklin W. McCann and Jonathan W. McCann. Memorial service to be held a
 KAPLAN-Sylvia. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 LIVSEY-Dail Cameron. 64. Sarasota, FL. Died July 21, 2002. Born October 6, 1937 in New York City. Dail grew up in Bedford, NY and was educated at Rippowam Cisqua, Miss Hall's School and Vassar College. An accomplished art historian, Dail served as a docent at The Art Museum of Ontario in To
 MOSKIN-Doris Bloch, 75, resident of Hartsdale, NY, beloved mother of Mark, David and Nancy and grandmother of Isaac, Lillian and Mae Rose, died suddenly July 24th at White Plains Hospital. Born in Stuttgart, Germany, she was brought to England and then to the United States as a child. She g
 WYLER-Marjorie. The Jewish Theological Seminary of America mourns the passing of Marjorie Goldwasser Wyler, who served with distinction for more than fifty years. Her intellectual vigor and dedicated work as head of the communications department helped position JTS as a force for Jewish lif
 Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93. ''Caps for Sale'' was first published in 1938 and 
 DIMARZIO-Alice Gertrude Allen RN. Born on 14th December, 1907 died on Thursday, July 25th in Plymouth, Massachusetts. She was the wife of Dr. James Lawrence Flynn of Boston, MA and Rafael F. DiMarzio of Plymouth, MA. She was a 1929 graduate of the Mercy Hospital Nursing School in Springfiel
 FENHAGEN-Margaret McCann ''Margo''. Age 63, of Pound Ridge, N.Y., died July 24, 2002. Wife of William E. Fenhagen. She is also survived by her children Carolin I. Raleigh, Laura I. Imrie and Douglas P. Irwin. Sister of Franklin W. McCann and Jonathan W. McCann. Memorial service to be held a
 LIVSEY-Dail Cameron. 64. Sarasota, FL. Died July 21, 2002. Born October 6, 1937 in New York City. Dail grew up in Bedford, NY and was educated at Rippowam Cisqua, Miss Hall's School and Vassar College. An accomplished art historian, Dail served as a docent at The Art Museum of Ontario in To
 STOLBERG - Edythe. The members, Board of Governors & staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her husband Leo, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 Millie Deegan, who pitched and played second base for the Rockford Peaches in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's, died on July 21 at her home in New Port Richey, Fla. She was 82. The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her niece Joan Barker said. In the 1
 DANN-Nancy N. Of Sag Harbor, NY, formerly of New York City, on July 21, 2002. Wife of the late Robert Roy Dann. Survived by her sister, N. Cyril Herzfeld and her nieces, Elizabeth L. Herzfeld and Suzanne Ferguson. Interment private.       
 DEUTSCH-Jeanne. Passed away peacefully July 26, 2002, at her home in Cincinnati, OH, at the age of 84. Beloved wife of 64 years to the late Frank Deutsch. Mother of Jeffrey and Thomas Deutsch of Cincinnati, OH, and Karen Cohen of New York City. Cherished grandmother to Ryan, Josh, Katie, Ma
 KISHORR-Esther. On Thursday, July 25, in her 91st year. Her brother Ira Stadlen survives her as does her nephew Lewis Stadlen and her many nieces Jessica Fromm, Vicki, Sallie, Maxime and Clare Stadlen and 10 grand nieces and nephews. She was a sickly child but survived to fool them all.    
 LEBOR-Dorothy Patrick. Beloved wife of John F. Lebor. Passed away suddenly at New England Medical Center in Boston, MA. She was the daughter of Sadie Eardley Patrick and Joseph Patrick. Mrs. Lebor was born in Chelsea, MA. She graduated from Saint Mary's H.S. in Chelsea and received a Bachel
 LIVSEY-Dail Cameron. 64. Sarasota, FL. Died July 21, 2002. Born October 6, 1937 in New York City. Dail grew up in Bedford, NY and was educated at Rippowam Cisqua, Miss Hall's School and Vassar College. An accomplished art historian, Dail served as a docent at The Art Museum of Ontario in To
 MOSKIN-Doris Bloch. 75, resident of Hartsdale, NY, beloved mother of Mark, David and Nancy and grandmother of Isaac, Lillian and Mae Rose, died suddenly July 24th at White Plains Hospital. Born in Stuttgart, Germany, she was brought to England and then to the United States as a child. She g
 ROSA-Elisa Cristina. Age 38 of Maplewood, New Jersey, passed away July 17, 2002 at New York Presbyterian Hospital following a long and courageous fight against cancer. Beloved wife of Joseph P. Kirk Jr. She is also survived by her mother Ute W. Rosa, father Edgar P. Rosa, grandmother Olga W
 SPINNER-Paula, of Boca Raton, Florida and formerly of North Woodmere, New York, passed away on July 18, 2002 at the age of 68. Devoted wife, loving mother and grandmother, teacher and friend to many. She is survived by Dr. Morton Spinner, her loving husband of 48 years, her three sons and d
 Annie Snyder, a leader of efforts to prevent the development of land near the site of the Civil War battles of Bull Run in northern Virginia, died on July 19 in Manassas, Va. She was 80. She and her husband had a farm near the battlefield. The cause was pneumonia, The Associated Pre
 Phyllis Weisbart Litoff, co-artistic director of the Belleayre Music Festival in Highmount, N.Y., for the last nine years, died on July 7 at her home in Highmount. She was 63. The cause was brain cancer, the festival announced. She and her husband, Mel, had been part-time re
 Lorna J. Marshall, a college English instructor turned homemaker who in her 50's began a new life as an anthropologist studying the Bushmen of Africa, died on July 8 at her home in Peterborough, N.H. She was 103. She had lived with her daughter, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, since 1996
 ARPS-Ruth Collicott. Formerly of New York City, died on July 29, 2002, at Seabury Retirement Community, Bloomfield, Conn., at age 95. Wife of the late Leslie H. Arps, a founding partner of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, she is survived by four nephews. Mrs. Arps was born in Evansvill
 BLOOMBERG-Florence Ehrlich on July 29, 2002 at home in Manhattan. She reveled in life, and loved her family and friends and they, in turn, adored her. Her children, Jane and Peter, Alice and Michael; her grandchildren, Craig and M.J., Karen, Wendy and Liza; her great-grandchildren, Nicholas
 GAYNES-Janet Gillies. Of North White Plains, NY, on July 29, 2002. Wife of the late Erwin S. Gaynes. Dear mother of Judy Sebastian and the late Barry Gaynes. Grandmother of Michael Sullivan, Adam and Scott Sebastian. Great grandmother of Michael. Her lifelong career was in the fashion indus
 KEMMERER - Mary Eli zabeth. A former board member and financial supporter of many national, state and community organizations in New Jersey and daughter of noted industrialist Ernest K. Halbach, died on Monday, July 29, 2002, at her home in Basking Ridge, NJ. She was 85 years old. Born in H
 KUSHNER-Irma Sue on July 28, 2002, of Fort Lee, NJ. Survived by her beloved husband Alexander, stepsons David and Nanci, and Steven and Lynne, grandchildren Briana, Luke, Jagger and Amelia, and a brother Sherwin and Joyce. Services are today, 10:30 am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-15
 MARGOLIS-Celia. On July 28, 2002 at her residence in the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Margolis, she is survived by her son David Margolis of NYC, daughter Phyllis Zucker of Potomac, MD, daughter-in-law Bobbie Margolis and son-inlaw Norbert Zucker, six
 RUBY-Barbara Jean. Suddenly on July 26, 2002 at age 60. Beloved wife of the late Robert O'Donnell, loving daughter of Alice and the late Elmer Ruby. Dear sister of David Ruby, and devoted stepmother of Kevin O'Donnell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street 
 SCHECHTER - Rosalie Co hen, 88, of Harrison, NY, died Sunday, July 28, after a brief illness. Loving wife of Emanuel and son, Stephen, Rosalie C. Schechter was a member of the Honorary Council of Hadassah and a former National Vice President, National Secretary, Recording Secretary and most
 ARPS-Ruth. The Civil Support Division and the Board of Directors of the Legal Aid Society mourn the loss of our dear friend who dedicated 50 years of service to the Society as a staunch supporter and tireless fundraiser. Mrs. Arps chaired the Women's Division during the mid 1970s. She and h
 GREENFIELD - Betty. Of Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray, devoted mother of Harvey, cherished grandmother of Steven, Stacey, Richard, Lisa, Eddie, Jessica and Alexa, great grandmother of Jake, Casey, Emily, Lorey and Anna. Devoted friend to her care-giver Catherine. She was a t
 HAERER-Carol, 69. Prominent abstract New York painter, died of ovarian cancer on July 20 in Bennington, VT. Raised in Nebraska, Haerer won a Fulbright Fellowship to Paris in 1954, and became part of a circle of important American painters working in Paris that included Sam Francis, Joan Mit
 KAPETENAKIS-Betty. The New York Foundation mourns the shocking death of our colleague and friend, The Director of The North Star Fund. Betty's profound commitment to progressive philanthropy, her personal activism, and her unwavering commitment to the struggle for justice, were examples for
 RUBY-Barbara Jean. Suddenly on July 26, 2002 at age 60. Beloved wife of the late Robert O'Donnell, loving daughter of Alice and the late Elmer Ruby. Dear sister of David Ruby, and devoted stepmother of Kevin O'Donnell. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street 
 SNEDDON-Kristine Fleisher, Ph.D, passed away on July 28, 2002, surrounded by her friends and family at her home in Weston, CT. The Sneddon family, long time residents of the Upper West Side, moved to Weston in the summer of 1991 with their youngest children, Jesse and Mika. Kristine became 
 WEISSMAN-Hope, 58. Wesleyan University Associate Professor of Letters and of Women's Studies, died July 24, 2002. Survived by her mother, Sarah Weissman of Monroe Township, NJ and brothers Robert of Randolph, N.J., and Arthur of Falls Church, VA. Memorial service is planned for the fall at 
