 BEEKMAN--Nancy B., of South Shaftsbury, VT and Palm City, FL, passed away on August 28th at Albany Medical Center from injuries incurred in an automobile accident. She leaves her beloved husband of 50 years, Philip E. Beekman, three children, Elizabeth E. Beekman of Providence, RI, Leslie B
 HUROWITZ--Susan Marjory. Bright, Brave, Beautiful Susie. Susie had a Romance with Life and she lived it fully and with grace. Gone all too soon. We shall always remember her with love. To her dearest husband and best friend, Monte, her children, Steven (Suzanne), Stephanie (Mark), Richard (
 KEHOE--Margaret, nee McMahon, on August 21, 2003. Loving wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Joseph, Jr. Beloved sister of Sr. Marcella of London, England. Cherished grandmother of Stefanie and Karen. Born in County Claire, Ireland, was well versed in, and a passionate devotee of, Ir
 KRUGMAN -- Ella. Passed away on Saturday, August 30, 2003. Beloved mother to Mindy Goldberg and the late Gloria Lawrence. Loving grandmother to six grandchildren, Jonathan, Jeffrey, Douglas, Jennifer and Heathre. Great-grandmother to eight. She will be greatly missed by family and friends. 
 LEE--Gloria C. of Pembroke Pines, Florida, formerly of Queens, New York, died peacefully surrounded by her family on August 28, 2003. She was interred in her hometown of Charlotte, North Carolina. She is survived by her eight loving children: Beverly; James and wife MaryAlice; Martha Peggy 
 SOGG--Barbara (nee Lavigne). Suddenly on August 29, 2003. Beloved wife of Jonathan S. Sogg. Sister of Allan and Paul Lavigne. Devoted to Jonny's children, Cathy (Christopher) Lawrence and Julie Seymour and their children Alexander, Zoe and Charles Lawrence and Annabel Seymour. A woman of st
 WEISS--Doris. October 16, 1930-August 30, 2003. Adored daughter of the late Helen and Nathan Trotzky, devoted and loving wife of 52 years to Dr. Bernard Weiss, extraordinary and supportive mother and friend to her children Wendy and Judd Meltzer and Cathy and Seymour Zises, exceptional and 
 HUROWITZ -- Susie. Cher ished wife of Monte. Beloved mother of Steven, Stephanie, and Richard. Adored grandmother of Edward, Alexander, Andrew, Caroline, Asher and Henry. Dear mother-inlaw of Marc, Susanne and Sharon. Loving sister of Joan. She was the most special and wonderful person, a b
 JONAS--Florence. Born February 25, 1908, died August 30, 2003. Daughter of Jacob and Leah Kyzor. Married to Harold Jonas (deceased) 1933-1946. Loving mother of Steven and grandmother of Jacob and Lillian, all of Port Jefferson, NY. Active all of her life in the arts and politics, translator
 KALLIN--Alexandra (Kallinikidou), of Manhattan, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on August 28, 2003 from congestive heart failure. She was the daughter of Eleni and Vasilios Kallinikidou and was born in Chalcedon, Turkey on November 27, 1906. She is survived by a niece, Helen Moneo, a nephew, Ni
 KANTROWITZ--Marilyn C., died peacefully at home on August 31, 2003. Beloved wife of Ira; mother of Jeremy; mother-in-law of Sandra; grandmother of Elizabeth and Thomas; sister of Ann Bailey Pinkham; aunt of David, Gregory, Sarah and Matthew Johnston, Lucy Frank and David Kane. Her remarkabl
 KEHOE--Margaret, nee McMahon, on August 21, 2003. Loving wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Joseph, Jr. Beloved sister of Sr. Marcella of London, England. Cherished grandmother of Stefanie and Karen. Born in County Claire, Ireland, was well versed in, and a passionate devotee of, Ir
 LIESMAN--Bernice (Bunny), August 31, 2003. Beloved wife of Marvin. Loving mother to Paul and Esther, Steven and Karen, Robert and Amy. Cherished grandmother of Jaclyn, Michael, Joseph, Jonathan, Madeline and Max. Dear sister to Paul and Melissa. Devoted 31-year NYC educator. Forever in our 
 PAYNTER--Mary Jane. Mary Jane Howard Paynter died in Princeton, N.J. on August 14 at age 96. She is survived by a son, Richard Kates Paynter III; her sister, Elizabeth Gwinn of Nashville; six grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren. She was predeceased by her son, Grenville Howard Paynter 
 WACHSBERGER--Sylvia nee Florin, on Sunday, August 31st, in her 91st year. Loving wife of the late Sidney Finkelstein. Beloved mother of Jill and Gianni Cereda. Adoring grandmother of Christopher Cereda. Sister of Al, Seymour and Stanley Florin and Pearl Greenfield. Well-loved friend of ''Th
 WEISS--Doris. October 16, 1930-August 30, 2003. Adored daughter of the late Helen and Nathan Trotzky, devoted and loving wife of 52 years to Dr. Bernard Weiss, extraordinary and supportive mother and friend to her children Wendy and Judd Meltzer and Cathy and Seymour Zises, exceptional and 
 WEISS--Sylvia, on August 31, 2003. Beloved mother of Diane Begleiter and Barbara Selinger, and sons-in-law Michael and Carl. Cherished grandmother of Robin, Steven, Heather, Douglas, Jeffrey and Debbie; grandsons-in-law Mark and Glen and granddaughters - in - law Rosanna, Marlene and Vyjaya
 DARTIGUE--Esther, retired educator and widow of Haiti's former Minister of Education and UNESCO's former Chief of Mission to the Congo, has died in Paris at 94. Born in Hungary, she earned degrees from Wooster College (Ohio) and Columbia's Teachers College, before moving to Haiti in 1931, w
 ECCLES--Mary, Viscountess. The Trustees, Fellows, and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Mary Eccles, widow of the 1st Viscount Eccles. In 1949 she became a founding Fellow of the Library, and in 1966 she joined the Board of Trustees, serving as a valuable member for 37
 HUROWITZ--Susan. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactress Susie Hurowitz, beloved wife of Monte Hurowitz, an Honorary Trustee of Beth
 KANTROWITZ--Marilyn. The staff of the Edith Winthrop Teacher Center of Westchester mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Marilyn. We remember with fondness her humor and generosity of spirit. Our sincere condolences to her devoted family and friends.       
 McGUINNESS--Betty, on August 29, 2003. Loving sister of Patricia Hosmer, Terry and Peter. Devoted sister-in-law to Mary McGuinness and Mamie Guidera. Caring aunt to eight nieces and nephews and an adoring great aunt. Compassionate and caring friend to many. Political activist and champion f
 ORIENTER--Andree. On August 31, 2003, aged 96. Beloved cousin of Peter Skomorowsky, Anne-Elisabeth and Jacques Moutet, Barbara Crane and Eleanor Fox; admired friend of countless people. She will be long remembered for her wit and intelligence by those fortunate to have known her.       
 WEISS--Doris. The Board and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the passing of Doris Weiss, beloved mother of Cathy Zises, Chair of YIVO's Leadership Forum. Her devotion and love for her family were exceptional and exemplary. Our heartfelt condolences to all. May her memor
 BROOKER -- Nancy Neu mann, age 61, beloved wife of T. Kimball Brooker; survivors include her daughters, Isobel (Brian M.) Case, Vanessa (Lee V.) Eastman, her son T. Kimball, Jr. (Katrina) Brooker, and her two devoted grandsons, T. Kimball Brooker, III and Charles Shaffer Case. A Funeral Ser
 LIPSKY--Belle, on Tuesday, September 2. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother to Barbara (Lloyd), Iris (Harvey), David (Irene). Adored grandmother to Glen, Robin, Craig, Jodi, Amy. Friend to so many. How we will miss her brilliance, love, warmth, compassion forever.       
 OSLER--Julie Ann. Age 56, passed away in Chicago, September 3, 2003, from the devastating effects of a stroke she suffered nearly five years ago. She was a daughter of the late David Osler and Grace Osler Sonenblick and the sister of Susan Osler and Jordan Metzger, Sagaponack, NY. and Amy O
 QUAN--Karen Sue (nee Shain). Age 45, passed away peacefully on September 2, 2003. She is survived by her husband David, her mother Maxine, her sister Sharon, brother Dennis, her father-inlaw Dr. Stuart Quan and mother-in-law Vicki Quan. Karen led a valiant and courageous fight against the c
 STULMAN--Elga Kron. On September 2, 2003, age 70. ''A Woman With Soul''. Beloved wife and best friend of Stephen L. Stulman for 50 years. Loving mother of Andrea and Richard Dennett, Jessica and Laurence Sheinman, James and Stacy Stulman, Laura and Jason Cooper; adoring grandmother of Alexa
 WATERS--Dorothy F. (Hoffman), 84, Of Holiday, Florida. Formerly of the Bronx. On August 16 surrounded by her family after a courageous battle with cancer. Wife of Michael J. Waters of Manhattan, worked for AT & T for 35 years retiring in 1981. Survived by daughter, Mae Nohilly of CT. Belove
 BOGART--Zelda, of Manhattan, retired, died at home on August 31st, 2003. Widow of Jacob J. Bogart, pharmacist. Mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, Eastern Star. Survived by her children, Dr. Bruce Bogart, Dr. Marc Bogart, Joel Bogart, and Vita Bogart, and her grandchildren, Dr. Tara
 BROOKER -- Nancy Neu mann, age 61, beloved wife of T. Kimball Brooker; survivors include her daughters, Isobel (Brian M.) Case, Vanessa (Lee V.) Eastman, her son T. Kimball, Jr. (Katrina) Brooker, and her two devoted grandsons, T. Kimball Brooker, III and Charles Shaffer Case. A Funeral Ser
 CHALEK--Doris, 78, was felled by a cerebral hemorrhage Wednesday afternoon, September 3, and passed away some hours later with her beloved husband Mort at her bedside along with several other family members. Longtime residents of New Rochelle, the Chalek's were to have celebrated their 60th
 COHEN--Miriam Ellman, 82, died on September 1st, 2003. She was predeceased by her husband, Herbert. Miriam was the beloved mother of Marcia Barcan and Sue Bergoffen. Beloved grandmother of Jessica, Abigail, Jonathan Barcan, Jennifer and Allison Blechman. Graveside funeral at Macpalech Cemet
 ECCLES--Mary, Viscountess. The Officers, Directors and staff of the Royal Oak Foundation mourn the passing of our dear friend Mary, Viscountess Eccles, on August 26, 2003. Mary was a founding member of the Royal Oak Foundation and an enthusiastic patron these past 30 years. Her friendship, 
 LEVINSON--Adeline, beloved wife of the late Bernard, the last of the Bahn sisters Shirley, Annie, Rosie, Betty, Sylvia and brother Marty, died Sept. 3, 2003 two months before her 83rd birthday. Cherished by daughter, Bonnie, son Mark, granddaughters Liza & Emily and son-inlaw Dr. Donald Kay
 MANUEL--Jeannine. Croix de Guerre 39-45, Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, Vermeil Medal from the City of Paris, Honorary Doctorate from the American University of Paris. It is with great regret and profound sorrow that the Ecole Active Bilingue Jeannine Manuel in Paris, France, announces t
 OSLER--Julie Ann. Age 56, passed away in Chicago, September 3, 2003, from the devastating effects of a stroke she suffered nearly five years ago. She was a daughter of the late David Osler and Grace Osler Sonenblick and the sister of Susan Osler and Jordan Metzger, Sagaponack, NY. and Amy O
 QUAN--Karen Sue (nee Shain). Age 45, passed away peacefully on September 2, 2003. She is survived by her husband David, her mother Maxine, her sister Sharon, brother Dennis, her father-inlaw Dr. Stuart Quan and mother-in-law Vicki Quan. Karen led a valiant and courageous fight against the c
 SANGER--O. Ann, 82, died peacefully on August 15th in Edgewater, NJ, after a long illness borne with courage. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Cyril Sanger, sons David and Peter, daughtersin-law Sally and Michelle and grandchildren Jonathan, Freyja, Elizabeth and Ashley. Her smile and ki
 SCHRIESHEIM--Beatrice D. 73, an active member of the Chicago community, wife of Alan Schriesheim, former director of Argonne National Laboratory, died on August 30, 2003. Born in Krakow, Poland, 1930 Bea came to the U.S. in 1947 at the age of 17, with Tyda Boehm, her adopted mother, after a
 TACCHI--Mary Jane, 61. On Monday, September 1, 2003. Coordinator of Young Adult Services at the New York Public Library. Mary Jane began her career within the branch libraries of the New York Public Library in 1966 after receiving her Masters in Library Science from the University of Califo
 TURECK--Rosalyn. All are invited to attend a memorial service for the renowned keyboard artist, scholar, author and teacher, Rosalyn Tureck, to be held at the Lowenstein Auditorium of Temple Emanu-El, 10 E. 66 St, New York City, on Tuesday, September 9, at 5PM. Donations (fully tax deductib
 Charlotte Selver, a teacher of sensory awareness who helped inspire the school of psychology that came to be known as the human potential movement, died on Aug. 22 at her home in Muir Beach, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 102. In classes and individual sessions held as recently
 ARZT -- Edya. Women's League for Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of its Education Director, Edya Arzt. For more than 30 years, Edya fostered adult education for women, encouraging Hebrew literacy, ritual observance and serious Jewish learning. She will be remembered by the many wome
 KAYCOFF--Evelyn (Essy). Beloved surrogate grandmother to her sister Lee's grandchildren, Jim, Bill, Craig, Debbi, Laurie, and Scott. Proud great-aunt of Stephen and twin boys due early 2004. Doting great grand-aunt of ten. She will be deeply missed.       
 SMADBECK--Mina Lewine. September 5, 2003. Mina's steadfast love and devotion to family and friends is the hallmark by which she will be remembered. Funny, wise, compassionate and pragmatic are all attributes associated with her unending energy and desire to live life to its fullest. She was
 A memorial service for the pianist and Bach scholar Rosalyn Tureck will be held on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Lowenstein Auditorium at Temple Emanu-El, 10 East 66th Street, Manhattan. She died on July 17 at age 88. The service, which will be open to the public, will include excerpts f
 Susan Chilcott, a leading British soprano who had a winning Metropolitan Opera debut last year as Helena in Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and received glowing reviews last June for her Royal Opera at Covent Garden debut as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades,'' opposite Plácido
 CHALEK--Doris. We were devastated by the sudden loss of our dear friend Doris, a truly beautiful human being. We extend our deepest sympathy to her warm and loving family Betty and Raan Smelin       
 EDELBERG -- Rhoda. Died September 3, 2003. Survived by Linda Yosinoff, Lake Park, FL. She will be missed.       
 FOCHIOS--Mary L., age 77, formerly of Tuxedo Park and the Upper West Side, died September 2, 2003 after a prolonged illness. Born in Charleston, West Virginia to Landon Rodgers Jones and Mary Arthur. She attended the University of Maryland and received her Master's Degree from Columbia Univ
 GLASSMAN--Roz. Beloved companion of Al Tarantal. Adoring aunt, caring cousin, best friend, she was all of these things to those who knew her. A fine potter, just as she combined beauty with imagination when it came to creating a clay piece, so she did with life. She worked hard at friendshi
 GRAUBARD -- Blanche Ka zon. 89, died September 5, in Seattle, of complications following a fall. She was educated in the public schools of Rutland, VT, graduated from Barnard College, worked as a reporter for Newsweek and as an editor for Grolier Encyclopedia. She was a Trustee of Barnard, 
 HEFLICH -- Estelle. Passed away peacefully on September 5th at her home in Warren, NJ. A loving and sweet woman, she was a pillar of strength for her family and will be missed. She was an associate registrar at Queens College where she also received her Bachelor of Arts degree. She leaves h
 MAESTRO--Edna Ten Eyck. Loving mother of Giulio and Vittorio, passed away September 1, at age 91. Her sunny outlook will be missed by family and friends, including the wonderful staff at the Wartburg Adult Care Community.       
 MENDELSOHN--Phyllis Langer. 81, died September 5th, 2003. Predeceased by her beloved Randy. Survived by her children, Ray (Phyllis), Kenneth (Jeri) and Ellen (Ben Borenstein) and her seven adoring grandchildren.       
 QUAN--Karen Sue (nee Shain). Age 45, passed away peacefully on September 2, 2003. She is survived by her husband David, her mother Maxine, her sister Sharon, brother Dennis, her father-inlaw Dr. Stuart Quan and mother-in-law Vicki Quan. Karen led a valiant and courageous fight against the c
 SLATKES--Leonard J. Suddenly, in New York City, on August 22, 2003. Age 73. Brother of Beverly Wasserman. Uncle of Diana Shank and her family. Distinguished Professor of Art at Queens College. High School Music and Art, 1948; BFA Syracuse University, 1952; MA Oberlin College, 1954; Ph.D. Un
 SMADBECK--Mina Lewine. September 5, 2003. Mina's steadfast love and devotion to family and friends is the hallmark by which she will be remembered. Funny, wise, compassionate and pragmatic are all attributes associated with her unending energy and desire to live life to its fullest. She was
 WOLFMAN--Marjorie. A lifelong Brooklyn resident, Marjorie Wolfman, 93, died Wednesday in a Norfolk, VA, hospital. She was pre-deceased byh her husdband, David, and will be remembered with love by scores of friends and family, her sister Sylvia Pollinger of Brooklyn, a son, Conrad Wolfman of
 TURECK--Rosalyn. All are invited to attend a memorial service for the renowned keyboard artist, scholar, author and teacher, Rosalyn Tureck, to be held at the Lowenstein Auditorium of Temple Emanu-El, 10 E. 66 St, New York City, on Tuesday, September 9, at 5PM. Donations (fully tax deductib
 Judith Arango Henderson, a design expert, curator and columnist whose Miami retail store, Arango Inc., was one of the first to specialize in midcentury modern design, died on July 12 in Piedmont, Calif. She was 75 and lived there and in Miami. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her fa
 Marilyn E. Marlow, a literary agent who represented and championed many outstanding children's book writers and illustrators, especially those who wrote for teenage readers, died on Aug. 25 at the home of her niece Meg McCabe in Katonah, N.Y. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 DINAN--Jeanette. Cherished mother of our dear son-inlaw, James G. Dinan. Beloved mother and grandmother. She will be dearly missed. Phyllis and Alfred Miller       
 ORELL--Rose. Born November 11, 1914. Loving wife to the late Barnett, mother to Sandy and Audrey, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died peacefully at her home on September 5, 2003. A lifelong political activist, student, business woman, union organizer, world traveler, former PTA President
 SMADBECK--Mina Lewine. September 5, 2003. Mina's steadfast love and devotion to family and friends is the hallmark by which she will be remembered. Funny, wise, compassionate and pragmatic are all attributes associated with her unending energy and desire to live life to its fullest. She was
 STRICOF -- Selma. Died peacefully at home on September 6, 2003. You're now with your beloved Lew. Devoted mother of Richard (Jill) and Donna Kramer-Cohen (Ronald), adoring grandmother of Scott and Lauren, Courtney and Vanessa. She dedicated her life to her family and extended families. We w
 TURECK--Rosalyn. All are invited to attend a memorial service for the renowned keyboard artist, scholar, author and teacher, Rosalyn Tureck, to be held at the Lowenstein Auditorium of Temple Emanu-El, 10 E. 66 St, New York City, on Tuesday, September 9, at 5PM. Donations (fully tax deductib
 KELL--Yetta ''The Great Lady.'' Who left us 17 years ago: ''her wisdom, kindness and generosity missed by all who knew her.''       
 Gisele MacKenzie, the Canadian singing star of the 1950's television show ''Your Hit Parade,'' died on Friday in Burbank, Calif. She was 76. The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter, Gigi Downs. Although she was known mainly for her contralto voice, Ms. MacKenzie also t
 de la CHAPELLE--Virginia T., 71, of Naples, FL, on September 6, 2003. Born Brooklyn, NY, raised in Manhasset, LI, graduated Mt. Holyoke College 1953. Survived by husband of 50 years, Norman, four children, Charles de la Chapelle of Barrington, IL, Anne de la Chapelle of Westport, NY, Julie 
 FASTENBERG -- Hannah, died September 7, 2003 at the age of 82. She passed away peacefully at Roosevelt Hospital. Cherished wife of Dr. Milton Fastenberg, married for 54 years. Adored mother of Nathaniel and Francie Fastenberg of Phoenix. Beloved grandmother of Rachel, Bryan and Sara. Sister
 FREEMAN--Gladys W. Our grandmother and greatgrandmother who shared her wisdom, humor and love throughout her 103 years. Cousin to Capone gangster, ''Potatoes'' Kaufman, Leopold-Loeb trial witness and a University of Chicago graduate. A truly remarkable person whom we will remember and miss.
 GRANOFSKY--Estrella (Stella). On September 8, 2003. Survived by son William Arraez and daughter Norma Kamali. Prayers at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home Tuesday, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian burial Wednesday 10 AM at St. Monica's RC Church. She was a extraordinarily talented, unforgettable woma
 GRAUBARD--Blanche K. The partners and employees of Graubard Miller deeply mourn the passing of Blanche Graubard, beloved wife of Seymour Graubard, our esteemed founding partner. We remember her graciousness, intelligence and warmth and will miss her. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Mr. 
 GREEN--Eleanor Bayuk. Celebrated her 100th birthday with 50 family members and friends at Philmont Country Club in Huntingdon Valley, PA on July 20th, 2003. She died in NYC just one month later on August 18th. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by her love of life an
 KEELER--Ruth, age 94, of North Salem, NY, died September 1, 2003 at her home, Keeler Homestead. Daughter of Floyd and Romola (Lyon) Keeler. Miss Keeler was predeceased by her sister, Kathryn Sherrill, and is survived by her nephews, Leicester and Christopher Sherrill and their families, a f
 LAVOVE--Celia. September 2, 2003 Age 93. Survived by her daughter, Susan, granddaughters, Melinda & Gail, & great-grandson, Dominic.       
 MORSE -- Marian Edwina (nee Davis) of Chatham, NJ. Age 94, died September 5, after a massive stroke. Brooklyn native. 1930 graduate of Adelphi College. Manager at NY Telephone Co until 1950. Active fund-raiser for American Heart Association, American Cancer Society and National Multiple Scl
 ORELL--Rose. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Samuel Field/Bay Terrace YM & YWHA mourn the loss of our esteemed Board Member, Rose Orell. Rose was a compassionately committed advocate for all those in need and worked tirelessly to maintain the dignity and enrich the lives of all huma
 WOLFE--Rose. On September 8. Beloved mother of Paula W. Brill, M.D., and the late Stephen Wolfe. Cherished grandmother of Laura and Stephen Brill. Beloved greatgrandmother of Jackson, Sophie and Benjamin. Loving grandmother-in-law of Frances Wolfe and Ellen Evans. She was a retired New York
 Leni Riefenstahl, the German filmmaker whose daringly innovative documentaries about a Nazi rally in Nuremberg in 1934 and the Berlin Olympics of 1936 earned her both acclaim as a cinematic genius and contempt as a propagandist for Hitler, died on Monday night at her home in Pöcking, south
 FINDORAK -- Kathleen. On September 8, 2003 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Jim O'Neill, dear sister of Joanne, devoted daughter of the late John and Bertha. She will be deeply missed by all her family and friends. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Hom
 GRANOFSKY--Estrella (Stella). On September 8, 2003. Survived by son William Arraez and daughter Norma Kamali. Prayers at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home Tuesday, 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian burial Wednesday 10 AM at St. Monica's RC Church. She was a extraordinarily talented, unforgettable woma
 SINGER--Rita. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Rita Singer, beloved wife of the late Edwin M. Singer. Rita was a valued and dedicated member of ADL's Women's Division. We extend our sincere condolences to her entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman 
 SUNSHINE--Betty. Died September 8, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harry, mother of Roberta and Barry Sussman, and Joan and Al Weisinger. Grandmother of Linda Sussman, Susan Sussman, Bonnie Sussman, Ronni and Brian Siff, Marci and Paul Schneider, Julie and Scott Zelnick. Great-grandmother of
 WOLFE--Rose. On September 8. Beloved mother of Paula W. Brill, M.D., and the late Stephen Wolfe. Cherished grandmother of Laura and Stephen Brill. Beloved greatgrandmother of Jackson, Sophie and Benjamin. Loving grandmother-in-law of Frances Wolfe and Ellen Evans. She was a retired New York
 GRAUBARD--Blanche. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Blanche Graubard. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 HAMILTON--Ruth Taft. Of Needham, MA., formerly of Tenafly, N.J. Died peacefully September 9, 2003. She is survived by her daughter Betsey Taft Colby of Wayland, MA., her son Ned Taft of Wellesley, MA., five grandchildren, two stepchildren and five step grandchildren all of whom loved her de
 LANGE--Erika Berson. On September 9, 2003. Beloved wife of Mike. Mother of Jason. Daughter of Joel and of Dale. Step-daughter of Linda and sister of Jeremy. Our loss is beyond sadness but her great goodness, intelligence, devotion and wit has forever enriched us and all whose lives she touc
 LUSTIG--Trudi. Died September 9, 2003, exactly 15 years to the day after her beloved husband Mike. Trudi and Mike are dancing together in heaven now. Trudi was an enormous, loving presence to all who knew her. Her sense of humor, love of fun, family and friends brought happiness to any situ
 REGES--Alice M. Died in Paris on August 31st, 2003. Beloved mother of Marianna Reges, loving grandmother of Rebecca Reges Green and Charles P. Green, III; she was a truly remarkable person with great energy and interest in tennis, dancing, bridge, opera, theater, travel and real estate sale
 SAYRE--Harriet Hart, died September 6, 2003 of cancer. She was the wife of the retired Dean of the Washington National Cathedral, Rev. Francis B. Sayre. Funeral and interment will be 2:00 pm Saturday, Sept 13 in the Bethlehem Chapel of the Washington National Cathedral. A Memorial Service w
 HERTZAN -- Heather. The 10th anniversary of her passing. Heather's joy, kindness and depth of character still alive and shall remain with us always. Love, Mom, Morgan       
 Anna Lindh, who died early yesterday at the age of 46 after a stabbing attack, was one of Sweden's most popular politicians. A lifelong member of the governing Social Democrats, she had been mentioned as a future party leader. In 1998, when she became foreign minister under Prime Minister G
 Marie Foster, a dental technician whose quiet but effective efforts to win voting rights for blacks made her a national symbol when she was beaten by the police in the Selma, Ala., voting rights march in 1965, died on Saturday in Selma. She was 85. She was one of the original eight 
 FERKIN--Jacqueline. Loving wife of Jay. Devoted mother of Jeffrey Friedman and Lily Safani; Scott Friedman and Ruth Perry. Caring sister of Carol and the late Paul Goldberg; Jill and Jay Gordon. Adoring grandmother of Leor, Yael, Alexandra, Nathalie and Holly. Nurturing aunt of Jamie and Sh
 KOLEVZON--Beatrice R. on September 11, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward R. Devoted mother of Peter S. and Michael S. Cherished grandmother of Kenneth and Asmae, Alex and Dana, Josh, Rebecca, Danielle and Asaf, Leora, and David. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Jewish Comm
 SHORE -- Dorothy Kimmel man, (of Philadelphia), died peacefully on September 10, 2003, a truly elegant lady, beloved wife of the late William Shore, devoted mother of Madge Shore Miller, of New York City and Joan Shore Steinhouse, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, cherished grandmother of Jennifer Mil
 VOGEL--Dorothy Lapin Reiner. Died at the age of 87 after a short illness at her home in Sag Harbor, NY on September 1. Loving mother of Nora Reiner Gluck and Louise Reiner Baker. Loving grandmother of Benjamin Gluck and Janina Reiner. Dorothy was a poet, tennis player, folk singer, artist, 
 BEERMAN--Joan. The residents and Board of Directors of 233 East 69th Street mourn the passing of their esteemed president. Her dedicated service to the building will be missed. We extend our sympathies to her family and Shadow. BEERMAN--Joan R. We mourn the loss of our friend and ne
 FERKIN--Jacqueline. Loving wife of Jay. Devoted mother of Jeffrey Friedman and Lily Safani; Scott Friedman and Ruth Perry. Caring sister of Carol and the late Paul Goldberg; Jill and Jay Gordon. Adoring grandmother of Leor, Yael, Alexandra, Nathalie and Holly. Nurturing aunt of Jamie and Sh
 LEVIN--Cecily. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Cecily, wife of our former esteemed member Stanley Levin and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President       
 ROSENBLOOM -- Ruth M. (Friedlander), of New York City, formerly of Cambridge, MA, on Thursday, September 11, 2003. Beloved wife of Professor Richard S. Rosenbloom. Loving mother of Professor Joshua L. Rosenbloom of Lawrence, KS, Daniel H. Rosenbloom of Brooklyn, and Rachel E. Rosenbloom of 
 RUBIN--Rose. Loving mother of Barbara Heller and Sandra (with her husband Gerald) Bogatz. Adored grandmother of Ronald, David and Michael Heller and William Bogatz, Debra Klein and Rhonda Levy. Cherished great-grandmother of Lauren, Samuel, Lindsay, Chad, Michael, Alexis and Adam. Private S
 SHORE -- Dorothy Kimmel man, (of Philadelphia), died peacefully on September 10, 2003, a truly elegant lady, beloved wife of the late William Shore, devoted mother of Madge Shore Miller, of New York City and Joan Shore Steinhouse, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, cherished grandmother of Jennifer Mil
 SOKOLOFF--Carol Helene. Of New York City and Ancramdale, NY, on Thursday September 11, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Sylvia and David, cherished sister of Martin, Karen and nephew Greg. Devoted niece of Gussie. Great friend of Joan, Pat, Mady, Alvin, Eve, Max, Andrea, Elayne, Richard a
 WALGROVE -- Suzanne. Of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away peacefully at home after a long battle with cancer on September 11, 2003. Survived by her husband Richard, step-sons Daniel and Steven, four grandchildren and her sister Stephanie.       
 ZIMMETH--Leah. Loved for all of her 95 years, she will always be in our hearts and will be missed forever by her beloved daughter Meryl Slater and Ira Kader, grandchildren and great grandchildren.       
 COHEN--Margie. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Margie Cohen, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her family. Marc Goldberg, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 KESTEN--Rose Posner. Beloved wife of Seymour. Devoted mother of Philip and Randy and dedicated daughters-in-law Kathy and Kirsten. Adoring grandmother of Sam, Chloe and Jamie. Died September 6, 2003 at the age of 78 (her 50th wedding anniversary). She inspired everyone she met with her comp
 KWIATEK--Urszula, M.D. An internal medicine physician who served the diverse ethnic community of the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn, died at her home in North Hills, NY on September 3, 2003. Born January 9, 1954 in Warsaw, Poland she graduated from Warsaw Medical Academy in 1979. She comple
 LEVIN--Cecily Small. (formerly of Great Neck.) Beloved wife of the late Stanley. Devoted mother of Jayne Seidman, Fredy-Jo (Lewis) Grafman and Lauren Levin. Loving sister of Lawrence Small and the late Hazel Yudow. Cherished grandmother of Linda, Sarah, D.J. and Charles. Services Sunday 12 
 LYSOHIR--Betty Jean. Born June 3, 1927, daughter of Charles and Betty Bremner of Lincoln, Nebraska, passed away peacefully at home on September 11 after a long illness. Preceded in death by her loving husband of 52 years, Walter. Walter and Betty retired to Boynton Beach, FL 15 years ago. B
 SHEERIN -- Maggie. Began her final and most highly anticipated journey on Friday, September 12, 2003. Born in Texas, on September 22, 1940, she attended school in Temple and resided in San Antonio for many years where she married (the late) Bobby Sheerin. She was a self-described spirituali
 STORCH--Norma on August 28, 2003. Beloved wife of Larry. Loving mother of Lary, Candace and June. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Sarah, Justin, Adrianna and Daniel. A Memorial Service will be held at her home Friday, September 19, 6 PM. In lieu of flowers, send contributions to t
 MOORE -- John McDonald. January 11th, 1919September 14th, 1999. ''O, what her teacher taught her, the many things, and what stands printed in roots and long difficult stems: she sings it, she sings!'' Rainer Maria Rilk       
 BERINI--Anna Lee. 98, on September 12, 2003. Survived by her brother Sidney Bernstein, 99, her son John Simons Jr., her granddaughters Janet Correia, Joyce Simons, Diana Simons, Sarah Simons and Betsy Simons and three great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Memorial 
 GLAZER--Dorothy. On September 14, 2003. A very loving and devoted wife of her late husband Lou with whom she shared a wonderful life. A caring and involved mom, grandma and great-grandma whose happiest times were those spent with her sister Nettie, her children Leni, Harold and Richard, her
 HOFBAUER--Edith. On September 11, 2003. Loving mother of John and Carol Hofbauer, grandmother of Eric, Claire, Jason and Alex, died peacefully at home. She lived a good life. She was loved and will be missed.       
 MILTON--Hilda L. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Devoted mother of Donn, Ilo, Cindy and Rand and motherin-law of Rebecca, Michael, Eric and Rochelle. Cherished grandmother of Landry, Schuyler, Jesse, Alisa and Brian. Services Tuesday, 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Stat
 ROTH--Marc. The Board and Staff of F.E.G.S. Health and Human Services System mourn the passing of Marc Roth, beloved son of Evelyn Roth, F.E.G.S. Vice President and dear friend. Marc's battle was long and courageous. Our sympathies to Evelyn, her children Rebecca and Gregg, grandchildren Ma
 SEITEL--Karen. On September 13, 2003. Beloved daughter of Josephine and the late Nelson Seitel. Loving sister of Joan and Joseph Ackerstein. Devoted aunt of Michael and Jeffrey Ackerstein. Services Monday, September 15, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The f
 BRENNER -- Ilse K. (nee Schaeffer). Of Fort Lauderdale, FL, and Forest Hills, NY, passed away peacefully on September 14, 2003. Widow of Max Brenner, married for 58 years. She was a devoted and caring daughter, sister, wife, mother, sister-in-law, grandmother, and great grandmother. We were
 MENAKER--Esther. Ph.D. 95. Died peacefully in her home on August 20, 2003. She is mourned by her family, as well as by a wide circle of friends, colleagues, students and former patients. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM on Saturday, October 25, 2003, at the New-York Historical Socie
 MENDEL--Josie. We at Congregation B'nai Yisrael mourn the loss of our friend, neighbor, and Religious School teacher; we will miss the warmth of her smile. We share our deep sadness with her husband Andy, and her sons Adam and Josh. Barby K. Siegel, President Rabbi Douglas E. Krantz Rabbi S
 MILTON--Hilda L. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Devoted mother of Donn, Ilo, Cindy and Rand and motherin-law of Rebecca, Michael, Eric and Rochelle. Cherished grandmother of Landrey, Schuyler, Jesse, Alisa and Brian. Services Tuesday, 1pm, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Stat
 SIM--Milagros, M.D. The physicians and staff of QueensLong Island Medical Group, P.C. are profoundly saddened by the passing of our beloved friend, colleague and Group shareholder. Dr. Sim was a distinguished and dedicated obstetrician/gynecologist with our Group for 24 years. She was admir
 YEE - DILLON -- Cybill. On September 12, 2003 at age 27. Her family at York Capital Management extends our sincere sympathy to her ever loyal husband Gurdev, her mom Mary, her father Cy, her brother Carlton, her sister Cherise, brother-in-law Danny, nephew Conrad, and niece Sophia. She was 
 YOUNG--Judith. The members of Scarsdale SynagogueTremont Temple mourn the death of Judith Young, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to Judith's children, Cheryl, Suzanne, Robert, Lawrence and all her grandchildren. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Gerald Cohen, President
 GLICKMAN--Joy Doris. On September 16, 2003. She will be remembered with love and affection by her family and friends. Service Thursday, 11:30 A.M. at ''the Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GREENE--Sylvia. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sylvia Greene, beloved mother - in - law of Gwen Greene, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation and the Wall Street Division. We extend our deepest sympathies to Gwen and her husband
 KEMPER--Sophie. in Miami, FL at age 103. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother and great great grandmother. She will live in our hearts forever.       
 MENDEL--Josie. After a long courageous battle with breast cancer passed away prematurely on Monday, September 15, 2003. Daughter of the late Betty and Joseph Germano, beloved wife of Andrew Mendel, devoted mother of Adam and Joshua, loving sister of Toni Dodici and Howard Germain, adored au
 PLUMMER -- Nancy Dono van, known to her friends as Winkie. Loving wife of James Plummer and sister of Sally Madden. Died on September 16, 2003, after a brief illness. She will be missed by her many friends.       
 SIM--Milagros, M.D. The physicians and staff of QueensLong Island Medical Group, P.C. are profoundly saddened by the passing of our beloved friend, colleague and Group shareholder. Dr. Sim was a distinguished and dedicated obstetrician/gynecologist with our Group for 24 years. She was admir
 BREENBERG--Minnie. Age 102, known as ''Mom'' and ''Grandma'' at UCP Queens and Hadassah of Great Neck, died September 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Morris Breenberg, mother of Bernice and Jerry Rosenthal and the late Zelda and William Grossberg. Grandmother of Elaine and Ken Sonenberg,
 BURG--Lillian, 91, on September 17, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Harold Burg, M.D., beloved mother of Richard Burg and Linda Macklowe, loving mother-in-law of Harry Macklowe, affectionate grandmother of Billy Macklowe and Liz and Kent Swig, adoring great-grandmother of Simon and Oliver Sw
 GREENBERG - TURKEL -Molly. On September 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Gilbert and Linda. Adoring grandmother of Liza. Services private. GREENBERG - TURKEL -Molly. We at Goldstein and Morris wish to express our condolences to our friend and colleague, Lin
 HOPE--Dorothea Stater. Age 89. On Sunday, September 14, 2003 in South Nyack, NY. Widow of William Hope, she is survived by her children, Suzanne Hope Graham of South Nyack, Thomas Hope of South Gouldsboro, ME., Margaret Hope of Mechanicsburg, PA., four grandchildren, one great-grandchild, a
 JESSOP -- Dorothy Jones, Ph.D. Died on Sunday, September 7, 2003, at her home in Forest Hills Gardens. Dr. Jessop retired from full-time employment in September 2000 due to health problems. She had been Director of Research and Evaluation at Medical and Health Research Association of New Yo
 KLEIN--Jib Hamel, born Jessie Blanche Mapes in 1917 in Spring Valley, NY to Ellen Hopper and Leland R. Mapes, died in Lake City, TX on September 16, 2003. Jib was raised in Evanston, IL. Graduated from Connecticut College in New Haven. Married Herman (Hank) Hamel on October 1, 1937 in New Y
 AMOROSI--Lenora Toland. After a courageous battle with pulmonary fibrosis, ''Mimi'' died on September 12, 2003 at home in McLean, VA. She was the cherished wife of Dr. Leo D. Amorosi and beloved mother of ''Muffin'' Lynham, Maureen Cook, Leo, Edmund, Mark and Brian Amorosi and adored grandm
 BARKER--Jane A., 54, on September 18, 2003. Dearly beloved sister of Carol and Sally, aunt of Alex Permutt, niece of Bert and cousin of Wendy Wallbrunn, sister-inlaw of Alan Permutt, and member of the extended Barker-Werner clan; loving owner of Mabel. Cherished friend, respected colleague,
 GLAZER -- Dorothy. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Dorothy Glazer. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 MOUNTAIN--Louise Orien, passed away at home in Plandome, NY on September 16 after a short illness. She is survived by her husband John D. Mountain, MD, two children, Donald of Antioch, Tenn., and Gay Sachse of Sparks, MD. Also survived by seven grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren. Fune
 WOLF--Susan E., 58, died on August 26th, 2003 of cancer. She is survived by her parents Erwin and Elizabeth Ruklic, brother Peter, daughter Laura Wolf, son-in-law Karl Slovin, and two beloved grandchildren. Memorial gifts may be made to Casa de la Luz, 400 West Magee, Tucson, AZ 85704. Cele
 BARKER--Jane. The Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry of the North Shore University Hospital, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the death of Jane Barker, A.C.S.W., Chief Program Officer of Safe Horizons. Our staff sends condolences to her family and colleagues.    
 BERNSTEIN--Ruth W. Died Monday, September 15, 2003 at home. Loving wife of the late Stephen S. Bernstein. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Shapiro and Phoebe Besser. Loving grandmother of Larry Shapiro and Robin Ruby Blatzheim. Devoted greatgrandmother. Memorial service Sunday, September 21, 1PM
 MOHR--Nancy. On September 18th, 2003. Beloved wife, mother, mother - in - law, grandmother, sister, daughter - in - law, sister - in - law, friend, educator, mentor and cook. Service Sunday 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. MOHR--Dr. Nancy. The Faculty, A
 SILVER--Dorothy Davis. On September 18, 2003 at home in the Bronx. Widow of Maurice Silver; mother of Arthur Silver and the late Bettina Lorris; grandmother of Mara Lorris, Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, and Rebecca Buchanan; mother-in-law of Robin Ritterhoff; great grandmother of Tina and David 
 MARKS--Ruth. 5 years today! Her song has ended, but the melody lingers on. Love forever, Joyce, Jason, Greg & Jordana       
 Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was cancer, said 
 COWEN--Halle (Jill) Sanchia, art historian, died on September 19 in New York. The cause of death was brain cancer. Dr. Cowen specialized in Islamic art and wrote ''Kalila wa Dimna: An Animal Allegory of the Mongol Court''. She taught at the City University of New York, Columbia University, 
 FAROLL -- Leonie. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Leonie Faroll. We extend our deepest condolences to her family and friends. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 HOWELL--Connie. Of Center Point, TX, passed away on September 17, 2003. Beloved wife, mother, singer and dedicated nurse who touched the lives of many. She leaves behind her husband, Michael, and many family and friends.       
 KARNAM -- Lida, 1967 - 2003. My beloved wife, companion and friend, passed away suddenly on September 11. Lida was born in Iran. Due to religious persecution of Baha'is, she moved to the U.S. and attained a nursing degree. She met her beloved husband, Umaprasanna Karnam, in Florida and they
 KATZ--Elaine. Passed away peacefully on September 17, 2003. Adored by her husband Mel, adorded by her sons, Dr. Howard Katz, and attorney Lloyd Katz; adored by her grandchildren, Sophia and Michael, adored by her daughter-in-law, Wendy Katz. With so much adoration, Marcia and Bob Hill      
 MANSBRIDGE--Janet Dunning Van Duyn. 92, died peacefully at home September 19, 2003, beloved of her husband, children, grandchildren and friends.       
 NELAN--Kathleen (nee Kitt) on September 18, 2003 after a valiant struggle passed into the hands of her Creator. She was married to the late John J Nelan for 63 years. She was the mother of 11 children; William, Richard, Patricia Wagner, John, Kathleen Bradley, Vincent, Lucy Farrell, Eugene,
 RUDNICK--Essie. On September 19, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David Rudnick. Adored mother of Susan Spiler and Sharon and Jay Shapiro. Loving sister of Annette Haft. Grandmother of David and Suzy Spiler and Andrew and Rosemarie Spiler. Remembered with love by her devoted granddaughter Kat
 SCHWEIG--Ruth Keller. 81, lifelong Bronx resident, died peacefully on August 23, 2003, in her home in Boulder, CO. Contributions may be made in her memory to the Alzheimer's Association.       
 SHORTALL--Wanda Allan, born January 25, 1922. Daughter of the anthropologist Bronislaw Malinowski and Elsie Masson, died September 16th in NYC. Wanda emigrated to the US in 1939 and retained a lifelong love for her home in Oberbozen, Italy. Wanda became a successful model with the Ford Mode
 SILVER--Dorothy Davis. Age 96. On September 18, 2003 at home in the Bronx. Widow of Maurice Silver; mother of Arthur Silver and the late Bettina Lorris; grandmother of Mara Lorris, Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, and Rebecca Buchanan; mother-in-law of Robin Ritterhoff; great grandmother of Tina an
 CASERTA--Margaret Alice. Born July 11, 1927, died September 20, 2003, of White Plains, NY, devoted mother of five children, 15 grandchildren, has joined her parents in heaven.       
 COWEN--Halle (Jill) Sanchia, art historian, died on September 19 in New York. The cause of death was brain cancer. Dr. Cowen specialized in Islamic art and wrote ''Kalila wa Dimna: An Animal Allegory of the Mongol Court''. She taught at the City University of New York, Columbia University, 
 FEDERICO--Olimpia. On September 18, 2003. Beloved wife of Stewart Herman. Loving mother of Giulia Herman. Devoted daughter of Alberto and Lina Federico and family. Funeral mass to be held in Capri, Italy. FEDERICO -- Olimpia. The Dalton School PTA notes with great sadness the passin
 HENDREN -- Kathryn Ann. Died on Friday, September 19 in New York Cornell and Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Loving daughter of the late Col. Ed V. Hendren, Jr., of Anniston, AL, and the late Dorthy May Hendren of Arlington, VA, and the stepdaughter of Mrs. Irene Hendren of Rome, GA. Belove
 QUELLER -- Stephanie. Passed away peacefully on September 20, 2003. Adored by her husband Fred and by her daughters Jessica and Danielle. She will be remembered fondly by her many friends and by those who were customers of Tabletop Designs by Stephanie Queller in Southampton. She will be mi
 SILVER--Dorothy Davis. Age 96. On September 18, 2003 at home in the Bronx. Widow of Maurice Silver; mother of Arthur Silver and the late Bettina Lorris; grandmother of Mara Lorris, Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, and Rebecca Buchanan; mother-in-law of Robin Ritterhoff; great grandmother of Tina an
 COREN--Rebecca, 89, died September 21, 2003. Wife of Oscar, mother of Jessica Karmen (Andrew) and Melissa. Cherished grandmother of Emily. She will be missed.       
 COUFOS--Ellie. Of Bay Harbor Island, FL, formerly of Jamaica, NY passed away suddenly September 20, 2003. She was the wife of the late Louis P. Those left to cherish her memory are her loving children: Peter (Elizabeth) Coufos and Valerie (Burton) Bachrach and her adored grandchildren: Elea
 CUSHING-ZINN--Jean (Dalzell). Died September 22, 2003, in Greenwich, Connecticut. She was 79. Born January 23, 1924 in Brooklyn, she was the daughter of the late Lloyd Hunter Dalzell and Frances Jones Redmond and the stepdaughter of the late Cyril James Redmond. She is predeceased by her hu
 FAROLL--Leonie. On September 18, 2003 at age 75. Beloved daughter of the late Joseph and Berenice Faroll and sister of the late Miriam Stich and survived by one nephew and two nieces. Miss Faroll was the bastion of strength of the residents and staff of 1120 Park Avenue and served as a hist
 FITZGERALD--Benjamin J., age 82, of Mendham, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn), on September 21st, 2003. Retired Special Agent, DEA. Husband of Agnes (Dowling). Father of Eileen FitzGerald Sudler and her husband, Peter. Also survived by three grandchildren. Funeral Mass Wednesday, 10:30 AM, St. Jos
 LEVINE--Audrey (Schwartz). Mother of Stephen and Peggy; grandmother of Jeffrey Lauren, Karen and Michael. Great grandmother of Chloe, Sophie, Hannah, Maggie and Theodore. Funeral services Wednesday 10AM at Temple Shalom, Aberdeen, N.J. LEVINE--Shirley L. Died on Sunday, September 21
 LEVY--Diana. The members of Scarsdale Synagogue-Tremont Temple mourn the death of Diana Levy, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to her husband, David and their children, Bob, Paul and Bruce, their wives, Susan, Lauren and Leslie, and all her grandchildren. Step
 MEYER--Frieda. Frieda, age 91, was reunited with her beloved husband and soulmate, Walter, on September 21. Originally from Cologne, Germany, she resided in Forest Hills, N.Y. and, of late, in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. She is deeply mourned by her cherished daughters Karen Rosenberg and June Blu
 QUELLER--Stephanie. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Stephanie Queller, beloved wife of Fred Queller. We extend our deepest condolences to Fred and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President QUELLER--Ste
 STRAUS--Jessie. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member, Jessie Straus. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 BELLACH--Rhoda (Agata). The Agata family expresses its sorrow over the passing of Rhoda Bellach, sister of Burton Agata, sister-in-law of Dale Agata, aunt of Seth and Gail and the late Abby Agata and great-aunt of Adam. Our heartfelt thanks to Steger cousins Dr. Wilbur Steger, Sue and Dr. B
 DRAGUTSKY--Lenora (nee Lafner). Passed away peacefully on Monday, September 22. Beloved wife of David. Her spirit will live on through her two daughters Karen and Joan; her grandchildren Amy, Jamie and Kevin; her sisters Mildred and Ruth; her sons-in-law Sumner and Larry; grand son-in-law J
 FAROLL--Leonie. On September 18, 2003 at age 75. Beloved daughter of the late Joseph and Berenice Faroll and sister of the late Miriam Stich and survived by one nephew and two nieces. Miss Faroll was the bastion of strength of the residents and staff of 1120 Park Avenue and served as a hist
 GOLDBERG -- Miriam. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Miriam Goldberg, mother of Ellen Hershkin, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 KIMBALL--Leonora Dingee. Born September 30, 1904 in Wilmette, IL. Wife of the late James Brewster Kimball. She died peacefully at St. Joseph's Manor, Trumbull, Ct. on September 20, 2003. Survived by daughters Barbara Cohen and Elizabeth Dempsey, six grandchildren and six great grandchildren
 LEVINE--Shirley L. Died on Sunday, September 21, 2003. Beloved wife of Alvin L. Loving mother of Dr. James A., Linda A. and the late Lawrence W. Devoted mother-inlaw of Ronald Urban and Dr. Joan Levine. Devoted sister and sister-in-law of Leo and Rhonda Federman. Devoted aunt to Douglas and
 SCHOENGOLD--Elsie. (nee Fliesler). Age 94, born March 15, 1909, passed away peacefully on September 22, 2003. Her family loved and honored her. Rest in peace. Services Wednesday, 1:00 PM in Ferncliff Cremetory Chapel, Hartsdale, NY. For directions phone 914-693-4700.       
 SORIANO -- Liliane. Passed away on September 16, 2003 at her home in Blue Hill in the company of husband and her children. A memorial service will be held in New York.       
 STRAUS--Jessie. On September 21. Beloved by her late husband Henry, her children, Margaret and Walter, her daughter-in-law, Karen, and her grandchildren, Samuel, Alex, and Eliana. Social worker, humanist, activist, and loyal alumna (Barnard, Smith), she devoted her life to making the world 
 CLARKE--Lucile King, of Bill Hill Road, Lyme, Connecticut died Monday, September 22, 2003. Mrs. Clarke was born on September 22nd, 1919 in Los Angeles, CA the daughter of Gale Curtis Peck. Mrs. Clarke is survived by her husband Harry R. Clarke, a daughter, two brothers and two grandchildren
 LUNDBERG--Kathleen (Kelly), 66, of Yarmouthport, MA died September 23, 2003. Wife of Olle I. Lundberg. Mother of Steven, Karen, and Andrew Patterson. Also survived by two brothers, six sisters and many nieces and nephews. She lived life to the fullest and loved to travel. She had great styl
 PODGAINY--Marilyn Spiner, Esq., of Dix Hills, September 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Dr. Martin, loving mother of MSgt. Vivian L. and Mark D., adored grandmother of Elizabeth and Edward Goldsworthy, Lila and Georgia Podgainy, dear sister of Frances Dembling, dear motherin-law of Thomas Goldswo
 SIMON--Beverly Alt. Died on September 11th, 2003. She loved and was loved by her children, Julie and Tom, and three grandchildren. Widow of jazz critic George T. Simon. A dear, gentle friend, and gifted listener. An extraordinary artist, she left far too many canvases unpainted.       
 BAKER--Barbara. In CT Hospice, Branford, September 23rd, 2003, Barbara S. Elmore Baker, of Essex Meadows, Essex, Connecticut, formerly of South and West Orange, NJ and Hyannis Port, MA. Wife of the late Donald W. Baker, and her first husband, Wilson S. Elmore. Mother of David O. Elmore of N
 CHAMBERS--Carol (nee Clifford): Born June 6, 1941, died September 25, 2003. Born Yorkville, NY and resided in Woodside, Queens. Loving Aunt and sister-in-law to all of the Chambers family. Sister of late Maryann. Caring mother of Theresa, Christopher and James (predeceased) Chambers. Adored
 JEROME--Lucille. On September 25, 2003, age 90, of Highland Beach, FL, and NYC. Beloved widow of Harry, with whom she had a wonderful love affair for over 55 years. Lucille was a person who truly loved life, her family and friends in a very special way. She touched the lives of everyone who
 LICHTBLAU--Charlotte. On September 25, 2003. Beloved wife to the late Lee. Survived by three daughters Stephanie (Elliot) Pinson, Dee (Ronald) Framson, Jacqueline (Arnold) Ecker; six grandchildren, twelve great grandchildren. Charlotte was a loving and devoted wife, mother, grandmother and 
 MacCABE--Margaret I. Windsor ''Molly'', age 93, of New Canaan and Rowayton, CT, died August 9, 2003, at Waveny Care Center, New Canaan, CT. ''Molly'' came to the U.S. from Croydon, England, in 1936 when her work on the coronation of Edward VI was curtailed by his abdication. At the outbreak
 SOBOL--Julia. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Ronald M. Stuart, Pres. Joyce Baumgarten, Secy.       
 VALEO--Phoebe Lamont. On September 23, 2003, after a six month battle with lung cancer. She is survived by parents Thomas and Lois Valeo, brother Thomas, sister Anna and fiance Stephen Newman. Memorial Mass will be Monday, September 29th at 11 AM, Immaculate Conception, 42 Green St. Newbury
 ZWERLING--Gertrude R. Of Stamford, CT, died peacefully on Thursday, September 25, 2003. Mrs. Zwerling was born on September 18, 1907 in New York City. She is survived by her daughters, Louise Orkin and Alice Kaplan, by her son, Steven Drucker, and by eight grandchildren and ten greatgrandch
 HAROCHE -- Barbara (nee Frumkes). On September 20 in Denver, CO. Survived by children, Kim and Bob; grandsons, Liev and Skylar; brother, Melvyn Frumkes; cousin, Marilyn Weiss, cousin Arthur and Roberta Frumkesa. She was well loved and will be well missed. Donations in lieu of flowers may be
 JEROME--Lucille. On September 25, 2003, age 90, of Highland Beach, FL, and NYC. Beloved widow of Harry, with whom she had a wonderful love affair for over 55 years. Lucille was a person who truly loved life, her family and friends in a very special way. She touched the lives of everyone who
 McNAMEE--Rita. Of Brooklyn, NY, on September 24, 2003 after a long illness. Rita McNamee retired from Aon Corporation in 1994 after a long career as an insurance broker and manager. Following her retirement she worked as a special travel consultant with Something Special Travel. She is surv
 MOSS--Dr. Doris R. Loving wife of the late Ira. Cherished mother of Rabbi Steven and Judy, Marjorie and Emil Sobylak. Devoted grandmother of Karl, Anya, Eli and the late Paul. Among her many accomplishments she was the Director for Adult Education for the City of New York, aide to US Congre
 ZWERLING--Gertrude R. Of Stamford, CT, died peacefully on Thursday, September 25, 2003. Mrs. Zwerling was born on September 18, 1907 in New York City. She is survived by her daughters, Louise Orkin and Alice Kaplan, by her son, Steven Drucker, and by eight grandchildren and ten greatgrandch
 FARREL--Sallie Gibson. Of North Branford, CT. Widow of Franklin Farrel III, died on September 17, 2003. Daughter of John Gibson Jr., and Primrose Dixon Gibson of Pittsburgh, PA, and Chester, Nova Scotia. She attended the Winchester School, Oldfields School and Sarah Lawrence College. Predec
 FISCHER--Myna Strauss, 92, long-time Manhattan resident and a nationally recognized fashion designer during the fifties and sixties, died 30 August 2003. Born in Iowa, she began designing evening wraps in New York in the thirties. Her fashion career catupulted when one of her evening wraps 
 HALLETT--Laura Hogenauer. Born October 18, 1908. Widow of Nelson Julian Hogenauer, 1958, auditor, Hanover Bank. Widow of George Hervey Hallett Jr., 1985, for whom the Central Park Nature Sanctuary was dedicated by Mayor Koch. Devoted mother of Alan Krahe, Bruce William, Clare Laura. Loving 
 HALPERN -- Helen Armin died August 19, 2003, at age 91. Wife, mother, grandmother, great grandaunt, college administrator. We will remember her gracious hospitality, informed intelligence, steady determination, independence, unflappability. We will miss the sustenance and safe haven she pro
 HOAR--Blanche Bockstoce, 82, on September 21, 2003. Was Art Department head at Ethel Walker School and then Hotchkiss. Beloved mother of William; grandmother of William and Eliza. Memorial service, November 8th, 3PM, Ethel Walker's Chapel. Contributions in her memory to The Hartford Art Sch
 JEROME--Lucille. The administration, staff and faculty of Monroe College note with sadness the passing of Lucille Jerome, widow of the College's co-founder, Harry, and father of our current President, Stephen J. Jerome. Her warmth, generosity, wit, humanity and commitment to the ideals of t
 KAPLAN--Lillian R. (nee Wrotzlawsky). On September 26, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Kaplan. She is survived by her children Leon, Karen Behar & Myra, five grandchildren & a greatgranddaughter. She leaves us with memories of her devotion to family and friends, her wit and great mea
 McNAMEE--Rita. Of Brooklyn, NY, on September 24, 2003 after a long illness. Rita McNamee retired from Aon Corporation in 1994 after a long career as an insurance broker and manager. Following her retirement she worked as a special travel consultant with Something Special Travel. She is surv
 PORTNOY--Sara. On September 25, 2003. Dear mother of Sharon Siegel and Robert Portnoy. Loving grandma of Jessica Siegel, Michael and Leah Beth Portnoy. She will be greatly missed.       
 SELIGMAN--Ellen Eve. Beloved daughter of Adele and Malcolm Seligman. Devoted mother of Charlotte Wing. Died suddenly in Oakland, CA September 23. Loving sister of Pat Grant Litowitz and Lynne Vantriglia, sister-inlaw of Chris Wing, daughterin-law of Shirley Wing. Donations in her memory may
 van VALKENBURG--Arlene. 65, of New York City, passed away September 27, at her residence after a long illness. Born July 25, 1938, Ms. van Valkenburg grew up in Larchmont, NY, the beloved daughter of the late George B. and Catherine. A graduate of Mamaroneck High School and St. Michael's Co
 WILSON--Josephine Strother. On September 20, in Dallas, TX, where she had lived in recent years. Born in South Carolina, in 1919, for much of her life a resident of New York, Mrs. Wilson was married first to Roblee McCarthy of St. Louis, MO, and later to R. Thornton Wilson Jr. of New York. 
 Althea Gibson, the first black player to win Wimbledon and the United States national tennis championship and a pre-eminent figure in women's tennis, died yesterday in East Orange, N.J. She was 76. Gibson, who had been in poor health for many years, died at East Orange General Hospi
 Althea Gibson emerged in the tennis world of the 1950's as a most unlikely queen of the lawns of Wimbledon and Forest Hills. In 1950 she became the first black to compete in the United States nationals. She won 56 tournaments, including five Grand Slam singles titles -- the United S
 Catharine Crozier, a versatile organist who played at the inaugural concerts of the instruments at both Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, died Sept. 19 in Portland, Ore. She was 89. Ms. Crozier specialized in French music, ranging from Baroque composers like 
 BARRY -- Suzanne, ''Sylvia Barry'', ''Sylvia Benjamin.'' Died in New York City on September 27, after a long illness. Survived by her niece Jo Stecher Pardoe and nephews Jamie and Joseph Stecher. Funeral services private. Donations may be made to the Alzheimer's Association.       
 FORAN--Elizabeth Ann (Girvin). On September 26, 2003, Libby Foran, beloved wife of John Richard (Dick) Foran, passed away in her 69th year in Toronto, Ontario. Survived by her husband, her daughters Susan and Lynne (Michael Spragge), two grandchildren, Kathleen and Liam Foran-Spragge, her b
 HOWE--Isabelle Labouisse. Died September 26, 2003, in Greenwich, CT, after a lengthy illness. She was born February 24, 1939, in Charlotte, NC; daughter of the late Sally Cameron Labouisse and John Witherspoon Labouisse. She is survived by her loving husband of 40 years, Nathaniel Saltonsta
 JEROME--Lucille. On September 25, 2003, age 90, of Highland Beach, FL, and NYC. Beloved widow of Harry, with whom she had a wonderful love affair for over 55 years. Lucille was a person who truly loved life, her family and friends in a very special way. She touched the lives of everyone who
 McNAMEE--Rita. Of Brooklyn, NY, on September 24, 2003 after a long illness. Rita McNamee retired from Aon Corporation in 1994 after a long career as an insurance broker and manager. Following her retirement she worked as a special travel consultant with Something Special Travel. She is surv
 ROSENFELD--Barbara. Of Red Bank, NJ, on September 26, 2003, after a long and courageous battle against cancer. Beloved wife of Jerry, her husband, best friend and soul mate of 43 years. Loving and devoted mother of Jennifer Pileggi and Robin Davis, adoring and doting grandmother of P.J. Dav
 SIEGELBERG--Ruth Edenbaum. 90. On September 25, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Harry. Beloved mother of Faye Stein (Lester), Alan (Florence), Robert (Charlene). Adored grandmother of Richard, Betsy, Jenni, Ariel, Taryn, Mira, Hannah, Brahna. She will be greatly missed.       
 van VALKENBURG--Arlene. 65, of New York City, passed away September 27, at her residence after a long illness. Born July 25, 1938, Ms. van Valkenburg grew up in Larchmont, NY, the beloved daughter of the late George B. and Catherine. A graduate of Mamaroneck High School and St. Michael's Co
 BORITZER--Rose. Beloved wife of Arno, with whom she had a wonderful life for over 62 years. Rose was a person dedicated to others, in her personal life, through her love for her children, family and friends, and in her professional life, as the Executive Director of the Kingsbridge Heights 
 HUETLINGER--Fay S. In her 93rd year, Fay died peacefully on September 28th in Boca Raton, FL. She was the mother of Ruth H. and Paul Eisen and Mark and Bonnie Heutlinger; grandmother of Andrew, Jonathan, and Gregg Eisen; great-grandmother of four. Formerly a fashion consultant in Newark and
 JEROME--Lucille. The Board of Directors and Staff of Family Services of Westchester note with sadness the loss of Lucille Jerome, matriarch of the Jerome Family, our 2003 Family of the Year. As a founder of Monroe College, Lucille Jerome's life was dedicated to providing educational opportu
 LIEBERT--Rose. Of New York City, died in her home on September 28, 2003. She was the beloved mother of the late Michael Liebert, widow of Herbert, and longtime companion of the late Harry Silverman. She was loved and will be missed by friends and family. ''Tutta bella cosa''. Services will 
 MARKOVITZ -- Rabbi Eu gene. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our Sisterhood President, Mrs. Rachel Lurie. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President       
 MILLER--Ruth O'Brien. Ruth passed away on September 25, 2003 after a recurring illness. Born on October 11, 1930 she was the daughter of Abbie Aldridge and Charlie O'Brien and the wife of the late Melvin Miller. Ruth had been a nurse and a teacher. She was a muse to her late husband, and po
 SATTY -- Frances Toby. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SUHL--Jean. Of Brooklyn, NY. On September 29, 2003, after a long illness. Beloved widow of Sidney. Loving mother of Michael, cherished grandmother of Martine and Natalie. Her spirit, wit and determination inspired all that knew her. She will be dearly missed.       
 SULLIVAN--Gail A., Senior VP of Daytime Network and Soapnet Sales for ABC Television Network, died suddenly September 27, 2003. Loving daughter of Ann (nee Ross) and the late John L. Sullivan. Beloved sister of the late John Joseph. She will always be loved and remembered by Ralph Gorthey. 
 TOWNSEND--Felicia T. Died at age 94 on September 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward Townsend and the late Eduardo Andrade. Mother of Jose E. Andrade and Lydia A. de Sanctis and the late Maria F. Andrade. Mother-inlaw of Malle T. Andrade and Francesco M. de Sanctis. Stepmother of Rosa
