 ADLER--Fanny (Fryda). On August 31, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Wolf Adler. Holocaust survivor. Devoted mother of Dr. Daniel Adler and Renee. Cherished grandmother of Sofia, Alycin, William and Gil. Services on Friday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In li
 CHIU - Patty. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the untimely passing of fourth-year College of Medicine student, Patty Chiu. Our deepest sympathies are extended to the entire Chiu family, to Mr. Scott Duong, and to her many friends. Those wishing to honorher memory may do s
 LUBIN--Tillie. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of longtime friend and benefactor, Tillie Lubin. She was a valued member of the Board of Directors and the President's Circle. Along with her family, she provided unwavering support to the Weizman
 RUSH--Adele. It is with great sorrow that we announce the passing of Adele Rush, the matriarch of the Rush family. She was a stalwart for family values as well as an early pioneer for Hadassah, Zionism, and the state of our homeland Israel. Alvin and Marilyn, Jeffrey and Loni, her eight gra
 Buffie Johnson, a painter whose work spanned much of the 20th century and ranged from Surrealism to Abstract Expressionism to larger-than-life hyperrealism, died on Aug. 11 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Joan Schenkar, 
 HAHER--Grace. Marymount School of New York extends its deepest sympathy to Jane Haher, MD, President of the Board of Trustees, on the loss of her beloved mother. A woman of tremendous faith and vitality, she brought much love and joy to her family and friends. The Marymount community expres
 RUSH--Adele. It is with great sorrow that we announce the passing of Adele Rush, the matriarch of the Rush family. She was a stalwart for family values as well as an early pioneer for Hadassah, Zionism, and the state of our homeland Israel. Alvin and Marilyn, Jeffrey and Loni, her eight gra
 BERNE--Frances. 89, our aunt, great-aunt, and greatgreat-aunt. Her devotion and love of family was second to none. We will miss her. The Diamond and Hyde Families       
 FALCON--Ruth. Age 94. Died August 21, 2006, in Santa Barbara, California. Predeceased by her loving husband Leon Falcon, sister Evelyn Glanz and brother-in-law Alfred Glanz, brother Herman Bernstein and sister-in-law Sally Bernstein. She will be missed by her three nieces Tobey Glanz, San D
 FEINBERG--Lotte E., Suddenly on May 9, 2006. Memorial Service Wednesday, September 6, at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, Gerald Lynch Theatre, 899 Tenth Avenue at 3:15 PM. Lotte was the beloved of Edmund Sassoon, the devoted daughter of the late Dr. Isidor and Fanny Feinberg, and 
 HAHER--Grace. Marymount School of New York extends its deepest sympathy to Jane Haher, MD, President of the Board of Trustees, on the loss of her beloved mother. A woman of tremendous faith and vitality, she brought much love and joy to her family and friends. The Marymount community expres
 IRISH--Dorothy (nee Louis). Peacefully, August 27 in Walnut Creek, CA. Born January 13, 1911. Graduated from the Lincoln School in 1928 and awarded a BFA summa cum laude from NYU in 1932. Married to John Stedman Irish in 1936, she was a Long Island resident until 1976. Dorothy was a talente
 JOHNSON--Buffie. Artist and author, died August 11, 2006 at 94 in NYC. Her daughter, Jenny Johnson Sykes, is her sole survivor. A memorial exhibition at the Anita Shapolsky Gallery will be announced early next year.       
 LUBIN--Tillie K. We note with sadness the passing of Tillie Lubin. Her warmth, spirit, and generosity were greatly admired by those fortunate to know her and treasured by her devoted family. We send our deepest sympathy to Sara and Axel Schupf, and to her loving circle of grandchildren and 
 RELIN--Irene. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind are deeply saddened by the death of Irene Relin, a member of The Guild's Board of Trustees, former President of the Women's Division, longtime supporter and frequent volunteer. We extend our heartfelt
 SAHR--Hadassah. We mourn the loss of Dr. Hadassah Sahr who died on August 20, 2006. She was a musician, educator and dear friend. The Brennan Family       
 THARP--Marie. We mourn the death of our Women of Discovery awardee Marie Tharp and celebrate her outstanding contributions to oceanographic cartography. Milbry C. Polk, Executive Director, Wings WorldQuest Leila Hadley Luce, Co-Founder, Board members Caroline Schimmel, Advisory Board Member
 WAY--Judith Simons, beloved wife of John Way for 45 years; mother of Jack and Jim; sister of Lynn Sullivan; and dedicated teammate and friend of many; died in her home in Montclair, New Jersy, on Friday August 4, 2006, after a year-long battle with cancer. Memorial Services will be held at 
 OSLER--Julie Ann.2/11/47--9/3/03. Lovingly remembered and missed by her family and friends.       
 PORCELAIN--Harriet. In memory of Harriet, a loving wife, mother and grandmother on the first anniversary of her death on Sept. 2, 2005.       
 FELDMAN -- Shirley Beth (nee Levine). Died on September 2, 2006. She is survived by her loving husband, Milton, son Robert, and grandson Aaron, and a host of friends and family. She was predeceased by her daughter Leslie Jill. She will be missed by all. George T. Davis Funeral Home, New Roc
 PORCELAIN--Harriet. In memory of Harriet, a loving wife, mother and grandmother on the first anniversary of her death on Sept. 2, 2005       
 Iris M. Ovshinsky, who along with her husband, the iconoclastic inventor Stanford R. Ovshinsky, produced cleaner automotive technologies and pushed the auto industry to embrace them, died on Aug. 16 near her home in Bloomfield Township, Mich. She was 79. She drowned after apparently
 ANGIOLETTI -- Dianne M. (nee DeCurtis), age 43, on September 3, in her home in Rivervale, NJ, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Dr. Lee M. Angioletti. Devoted mother of Lexis, Lindsay and Lee. Loving daughter of Eleanor DeCurtis. Dear sister of Cathy McCarthy of Ramsey and Patricia Smit
 CONDELLO--Vera I. Of New York and Naples, FL. Widow of Victor F. Condello, Sr. Mother of Dr. Virginia Condello and the late Victor F. Condello, Jr. Grandmother of adored and adoring Alexandra and sister of Pat Bolen and his wife, Theresa. Mrs. Condello was an attorney and a partner in the p
 SCHUMAN--Gloria, September 2nd, 2006, peacefully at home after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved sister of Shirlee Roberts and Sylvia Green. Adored aunt of Melissa Roberts and Tom Gressman, Dr. Jeffrey and Christine Roberts. Special great-aunt to Becky and Kira. Long time successful 
 TOLEDANO--Helene. ''Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas''       
 WEISSMAN--Esther, Passed away on September 3rd, 2006, at 97, at her home in Croton On Hudson, after a long wonderful life. She is the beloved wife of Paul for 71 years. Devoted mother of Joel, Naomi, and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Bruce and Karen, Steven and Jane, and Richard. Great-g
 ALTMAN--Miriam To be in her orbit was to circle the Sun.       
 Astrid Varnay, the charismatic dramatic soprano whose distinguished 55-year career began at 23 with a last-minute debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing the role of Sieglinde in Wagner's ''Walküre'' for an indisposed Lotte Lehmann, died in Munich on Monday. She was 88. The cause 
 EPSTEIN--Ina. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome S. Seiler, MD, Pres.       
 KAMSLER--Sarah, wife of the late Abraham Kamsler; beloved mother of Mary and Jerry, Irving and Judi, Elaine and Bill; cherished grandmother of Andrew and Fran, Scott and Cindy, David, Stephen, Elizabeth, Fran, John and Debbie; loving great grandmother to Alex, Ryan, Matthew, Joseph, Amber a
 KELSEY--Judith Ann (Pazolt, Antonetti). Of Melrose, MA, formerly of San Juan, PR, passed away peacefully on August 31, 2006, after a brief illness. Judy was the beloved wife of the late Donald P. Kelsey and loving mother of Salvador William Antonetti (Rhonda) of Charleston, SC, and David Vi
 MALONEY--Rita M. (nee Needham) peacefully on September 5, 2006 in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late John J. Devoted mother of Anne (Kenneth) Curtin, John E., Maureen (Richard) Kadri, Kevin (Paula) Maloney MD. Loving grandmother of Stephen, Jim, Christopher, Lara, Sean, Lauren, Najla, 
 FRYMER - KENSKY--Tikva The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Dr. Tikva FrymerKensky, beloved JPS author, whose indomitable spirit, keen intelligence, and creative imagination contributed so much to biblical, Jewish and feminist scholarship, and inspired so many
 RADOMSKY--Beatrice. Born in Baltimore, MD, December 1920, died September 4th in NY. Very dear beloved wife and best friend of 65 years to Joseph, mother of Hedda, Jeffrey B. Feignblatt and Cindy Watts. Grandmother to Ryan, Susan, and Alan. Greatgrandmother to Liam and Alex. She was friend t
 Dorothy Harmsen, who was a co-founder of the Jolly Rancher Candy Company, the maker of tangy, slowly dissolving bricks of fruit-flavored candy, and the owner of one of the nation's largest private collections of art of the American West, died in Denver on Aug. 29. She was 91. The ca
 Brown--Nancy Beth. Deeply loved wife of Russell Tims, mother of Travis Tims, sister of Alan Kornheiser and daughter of Bernice and Stanley Kornheiser. Peacefully, after a long illness, surrounded by family, on September 4. In Santa Fe, where she lived for 30 years as the city's brilliant je
 KARRAKER--Celine Baekeland Roll, mental health advocate, accomplished Early Music performer, talented photograhper, and world traveler, died September 1, 2006 after a long illness. She raised three children in Redding, CT and moved later to Southbury.       
 RELIN--Irene. Beloved wife of the late Bernard, devoted mother of Neal Relin, and Margaret Judge, cherished grandmother of Benjamin Judge, treasured sister-in-law of Roz Relin, loving motherin-law, aunt, and friend. Service Sunday, September 10, 1:30 P.M. at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 
 SCHAPIRO--Lillian Milgram, MD. Born August 20, 1902; died peacefully September 6, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Meyer Schapiro. Survived by daughter Miriam S. Grosof, son Ernest Schapiro, grandsons Benjamin and David Grosof, three great-grandchildren, and many who loved and admired her. Fu
 Dr. Gail Greenberg Shapiro, a pediatric allergist who contributed to important studies of drug treatments for asthma and allergies and helped develop widely used standards for managing childhood asthma, died on Aug. 25 in Seattle. She was 59. Dr. Shapiro died during cardiac surgery.
 Brown--Nancy Beth. Deeply loved wife of Russell Tims, mother of Travis Tims, sister of Alan Kornheiser and daughter of Bernice and Stanley Kornheiser. Peacefully, after a long illness, surrounded by family, on September 4. In Santa Fe, where she lived for 30 years as the city's brilliant je
 GOLDBERG--Ruth Margolis. Born October 24, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY to her beloved parents, Abraham and Jennie (Lipkind). Adored wife of 61 years to the late Murray. Devoted daughter-in-law to Harry and Rose Goldberg. Loving and generous mother to Jerry (Donald) and Stan (Leah). Proud ''Nana'' t
 HEVRONY--Hanah, Jerusalem, Israel. Beloved wife for 63 years of Mordec Hai, passed away September 6th at Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. Mrs. Hevrony was a fourth generation Israeli, raised in Tiberius by a Zionist family. Her father, Zelig, an engineer, worked with David Ben-Gurion to esta
 PEARSON--Judith. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center was deeply saddened by the death of Judy Pearson. She worked at Maimonides Medical Center for 25 years. She served from 1960 through 1975 as the Administrative Assistant for the Medical Staff Society, handling all meetings and 
 ROSE--Deborah. 59, of Somerville, MA. Healer, teacher, respectful lover of the earth, courageous and inspirational woman of integrity and grace, died peacefully at home on Monday, September 4th, of breast cancer. Her life was an extraordinary gift to a large, loving network of family and fr
 VARNAY--Astrid. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Astrid Varnay, whose interpretations of the leading soprano roles of Wagner and Richard Strauss are now legendary. She sang her first operatic performance anywhere as Sieglinde in ''Die Walkuere'' at the Met in 1941. From there she 
 WALLISON--Pearl L., on September 6, 2006, beloved Mom to Peter and Frieda, and Jane and Hugh; Nana to Ethan, Jeremy and Kristina, Elizabeth and George, Rebecca and Chris, Amanda and Tom; and great-Nana to Jonathan, Skylar, Matthew and Allegra. A teacher, a music-lover and full of ''joie de 
 Julia Levien, a leading authority on the dances of Isadora Duncan and a teacher of her technique, died on Sunday at her home on Roosevelt Island. She was 94. Her death was announced by Catherine Gallant, a dancer and choreographer who studied with her for many years. Ms. Lev
 RELIN--Irene. Beloved wife of the late Bernard, devoted mother of Neal Relin, and Margaret Judge, cherished grandmother of Benjamin Judge, treasured sister-in-law of Roz Relin, loving motherin-law, aunt, and friend. Service Sunday, September 10, 1:30 P.M. at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 
 BECK--Edith. Passed away peacefully on September 5. Adored wife of the late Milton. Beloved mother of Steven and Ernest. Cherished grandmother of Amanda and Michael. Dear mother-in-law of Carol and Julie. Forever in our hearts. Donations may be made in her memory to the Crohn's and Colitis 
 BONDER--Diane A. This notes the sad and untimely death of independent filmmaker Diane A. Bonder, 46. Diane died at her home in Brooklyn on June 23, almost a year after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. She was predeceased by her beloved father John Bonder and mother Geraldine (Cleerdi
 CITRON--Rose. Died peacefully Friday September 8 with her family by her side at S loan-Kettering. She is survived by her daughter Dassi (Bill Woolis), son Jerry (Jenny Tate) and granddaughters, Simone, Danielle, Chloe, Eve. A holocaust survivor, she will be remembered for her tireless energ
 ECHOLS--Violet Barnwell. 88, Tuesday, September 5, 2006. Survived by her daughter Karen. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, September 11th at 10am at St. Mark the Evangelist Church, 65 W 138th St, NY, NY. Donations to Alzheimer's Association.       
 GALINGER--Sally B. Died of natural causes. Daughter of the late George and Minnie Galinger and sister Corinne G. Alpert. She is survived by brother-in-law Robert Alpert, Highland Park, IL; and nephew Steven G. Alpert (Sarah, Hannah and Monika), Dallas, TX. Services private. In lieu of flowe
 GLAZER--Ruth, a musician, teacher, and arts administrator with an indomitable spirit, determination and humor, died Thursday. She was 95 and resided in Topsham, ME. As a soprano she performed as a soloist with the Boston Symphony, the Dallas Symphony, and many more. She taught at Vassar Col
 HETKIN--Berenice Berke, a woman of artistic proclivities and many interests died at the age of 86 on June 3, 2006 in her hometown, New York City. A professional interior designer for over 50 years, Berenice was equally proud of her achievements as a painter, illustrator, portraitist, perfor
 HOROWITZ--Martha, be loved wife of the late Dr. Felix, beloved mother of Lenore (David Forsted) and Lawrence I., wonderful grandmother to Hilary (Mitchell), Adam, Ben and Rona, great grandmother of Abigail Rose. Dear sister of Jean Weiner. Shiva will be observed at her children's homes.    
 HYMAN--Elaine Lubart. Beloved wife of Julian for 56 years. Mother and best friend to her children Steve, Mona and Harvey, their spouses Barbara, Michael and Lael, seven loving grandchildren, Sara, Ben, Emily, Julia, Charlie, Simone and Elliott. A sculptress, tennis player, gardener and art 
 MILLER--Betty Ann, of Poughkeepsie, NY, passed away peacefully in her home on Friday, September 1, 2006. She was born in New London, CT to William and Phyllis Richmond. She married Mr. Mark Miller on April 19, 1975 in her parents' home in Mystic, CT. She is survived by her husband Mark, her
 STRAUS--Alice Goodkin, 84, a VP at Valerie Wilson Travel and former radio soap opera star, died September 5 in New York after a brief illness. She was born November 16, 1921 in Detroit and grew up in Chicago. She had leading roles in a number of well-known radio programs: Myrt and Marge, St
 KELL--Yetta ''The Great Lady'' September 8th marked 20 years that she passed away. But her wisdom and kindness has never been forgotten by all who knew her. Joseph Kell and Ethel Davis       
 ANY--Marcelle. A rare jewel. Marcelle Any, beloved wife of Albert, cherished mother of Alan and Carol, loving grandmother of Lauren, Eileen, and Andy, devoted sister and daughter, died peacefully on Thursday evening, September 7th, 2006. She was 84 years old. Born in Bombay, India, to Iraqi
 BATHGATE -- Doris Bearmore, age 89, on Friday, September 8. Loving wife of the late Lawrence ''Bill'' E. Bathgate. Mrs. Bathgate is survived by her loving children, Lawrence E. Bathgate II, and Colin Lee Bathgate and his wife Tyonja, and Pamela Doris Husik and her husband Mark. Ten adoring 
 HYMAN--Elaine. Members of The Print Club of New York mourn the loss of our beloved Board Member, brilliant sculptor, and generous friend who enriched the lives of all who knew her. The Print Club of New York, Leonard Moss MD, President       
 LEONARD--Rita (King). Died September 8, 2006. Wife of the late Gene Leonard. Daughter of the late Lawrence and Rita King. She is survived by her children Gene and Elizabeth Leonard (Barton), and son-in-law Evan Barton and brother Larry King. Wake at Lloyd's of Bayside, Sunday and Monday. Fu
 MONTESANO--Irma. Of White Plains, passed away peacefully on September 8th, 2006, at her home. Irma Pierro was born in the Bronx on November 12th, 1916, and was married to the late Nicholas Montesano of White Plains. Irma taught in the White Plains public school system from 1962 to 1982. She
 QUARATO--Eleanor. Of Cortlandt Manor, died on Friday, September 8, 2006 at the age of 76. She was born in the Bronx on April 22, 1930 to David and Rose Amodeo. On May 2, 1959 she married Anthony Quarato. He predeceased her in March, 1995. She is survived by her two sons, Rev. Fr. Robert A. 
 ROCHE--Nancy (nee Keen). On September 8, 2006. Beloved wife of George A. Roche. Loving mother of Kathryn R. Hope and her husband Harold P. Hope III and Anne K. Watson and her husband Brooks A. Watson. Friends may call at the family owned Ruck Towson Funeral Home, Inc., 1050 York Rd. (Beltwa
 Patty Berg, the winner of a record 15 women's major golf championships and a founder of the Ladies Professional Golf Association, died yesterday in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88. Her death was announced by the L.P.G.A. She had Alzheimer's disease. Berg won the first United Sta
 Estelle R. Ramey, an endocrinologist, physiologist and feminist who came to national prominence in 1970 after she famously rebutted a Democratic leader who pronounced women unfit for important jobs because of the ''raging hormonal influences'' to which they were supposedly subject, died Fri
 BARASCH--Anne. September 11, 2006 formerly of Flushing, NY. Daughter of the late Simon David Barasch and Ida Barasch. Sister of the late Dr. Julius Barasch, Mollie Back, Goldie Barasch, Charles Barasch and Dr. Aaron Harry Barasch. She is survived by her niece and devoted caregiver Gloria R.
 RAMEY--Dr. Estelle R., age 89. Retired professor of Physiology and Biophysics at Georgetown University Medical School died at her home in Bethesda, MD on September 8th, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband of 66 years, James T. Ramey, former commissioner of the Atomic Energy Commiss
 ROCHE--Nancy (nee Keen). On September 8, 2006. Beloved wife of George A. Roche. Loving mother of Kathryn R. Hope and her husband Harold P. Hope III and Anne K. Watson and her husband Brooks A. Watson. Friends may call at the family owned Ruck Towson Funeral Home, Inc., 1050 York Rd. (Beltwa
 SCHNELWAR - GLADSTEIN-Judith. 62, deceased after a courageous long battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Gary Gladstein, mother of Andrew and Steven Schnelwar, stepmother of Jeffrey Gladstein and Mindy Grafstein, grandmother of Casey and Daniel Grafstein, sister of Sandra Wiener. Judi
 Dr. Olga Jonasson, a transplant surgeon and medical administrator who played an early and leading role in encouraging women to enter male-dominated surgical specialties, died on Aug. 30 in Chicago. She was 72. The death was confirmed by colleagues at the University of Illinois at Ch
 LeBRICHT--Isle. Passed away peacefully at her home on September 9th. Beloved cousin and friend. We will always remember her vitality and zest for life. Services private. Donations to Leukemia Society of America or Alzheimer 's Association.       
 MEYEROWITZ--Claire. Died on September 11, 2006. A graduate of Cornell NYH School of Nursing. She retired from NY Hospital Cornell Medical Center after thirtyseven years. She is survived by her two sisters, Louise Merrim and Lenore Lebhar, and many loving nieces and nephews. Family will rece
 RAMEY--Dr. Estelle R., age 89. Retired professor of Physiology and Biophysics at Georgetown University Medical School died at her home in Bethesda, MD on September 8th, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband of 66 years, James T. Ramey, former commissioner of the Atomic Energy Commiss
 STRAUS--Alice. The Association for Macular Diseases, The Macula Foundation and The LuEsther T. Mertz Retinal Research Center of Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital mourn the death of our beloved and esteemed friend and volunteer, Alice Straus. A creative and uniquely talented woman, we w
 Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 Elisabeth Ogilvie, the author of 46 books, most of them tales of romance and mystery set on the craggy islands off the coast of Maine, died Saturday at her home in Cushing, Me. She was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Barbara Mosher, Ms. Ogilvie's niece. Fans of her work, sa
 BLOOM--Doris T. On September 12, 2006. Beloved wife of Harold, mother of Jacky and Leslie, mother-in-law of Tom Mueller, grandmother of Jessie Mueller and sister of Martin Tekulsky. Her career as an occupational therapist spanned many years of work with children and geriatric patients. Cont
 GEFFNER--Lilyan, died September 12. Survived by her husband Leonard, her children Adrienne Star and Neal Geffner and sister Shirley Cohen. Funeral services were on Wednesday September 13.       
 GREENOUGH--Peter B. The Educational Broadcasting Corporation family joins Beverly Sills in mourning the loss of Peter Greenough, her dear husband for nearly half a century. Through Beverly's deep involvement with New York's public television stations over the years, she has come to be a tru
 LEBRECHT--Ilse. Passed away peacefully at her home on September 9. Beloved cousin and friend. We will always remember her vitality and zest for life. Services private. Donations to the Leukemia Society of America, or Alzheimer's Association.       
 Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 BERKLEY--Alison Beth. Died peacefully on September 14, 2006. Devoted mother to Kate B. Heim and daughter to Robert Berkley and the late Barbara Glasgall Berkley. Graduate of Cornell University, Class of 1965, she also earned a Master's degree from Yale University and a law degree from Benja
 BLOOM--Doris T. On September 12, 2006. Beloved wife of Harold, mother of Jacky and Leslie, mother-in-law of Tom Mueller, grandmother of Jessie Mueller and sister of Martin Tekulsky. Her career as an occupational therapist spanned many years of work with children and geriatric patients. Cont
 BRESCIANI--Marye (nee McCarthy), on September 13, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Peter J. Bresciani. Loving mother of Elizabeth, Peter, Mary Ellen and the late Susan, and mother-in-law of Heidemarie Koop and James Millea. Cherished grandmother of Kai Alita Bresciani. Devoted sister of Marga
 BULLOCK--Leslie Kitchell. Age 61 of Greenwich, CT, on September 13, 2006. Mrs. Bullock was born in Wilmington, DE, on September 15, 1944. She was the daughter of the late William J. Kitchell and the late Renee Carpenter Draper. She graduated from The Ethel Walker School (where she later ser
 KAPLAN--Ellen. The trustees and staff of the 1199SEIU Benefit and Pension Funds mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Ellen Kaplan, Chief Pension Officer. During her six years with the Funds, Ellen was deeply committed to improving the lives of our members and retirees. Her fighti
 RICHARDS--Ann. The Board, staff and friends of Freedom Institute mourn the death of a great leader and true champion, whose openness about her recovery from alcoholism inspired so many. Nancy I. Stahl, Board Chair Connie Murray, Exec. Dir. $(6$)RICHARDS--Ann. September 13, 2006. Res
 SAMUEL--Evelyn K. 9/26/1923-9/13/2006. She received an MLS from Columbia University, an MA and a PhD from NYU. She was the Head Librarian for NYU's Institute of Fine Arts in New York City. Evelyn took up residence in Santa Cruz, CA in 2002, where she made many wonderful new friends. Her hus
 HAMILTON--Jean Thomson passed away peacefully at her home on September 13, 2006. Born December 31, 1896, she was a true definition of a great lady. She is survived by her daughters Nancy Brown, Rye, NY and Joan Damon of Greenwich, CT; five grandchildren, Bill Sandberg, Riverside, CT; Chriss
 Oriana Fallaci, a dissecting interviewer of the powerful and an iconoclastic journalist who became an icon herself, died Friday in her home city of Florence, Italy. She was 77. Ms. Fallaci, who also had a home in Manhattan, was known to have suffered from cancer for the last decade.
 BERKLEY--Alison Beth. Died peacefully on September 14, 2006. Devoted mother to Kate B. Heim and daughter to Robert Berkley and the late Barbara Glasgall Berkley. Graduate of Cornell University, Class of 1965, she also earned a Master's degree from Yale University and a law degree from Benja
 BERKLEY--Alison Beth. Died peacefully on September 14, 2006. Devoted mother to Kate B. Heim and daughter to Robert Berkley and the late Barbara Glasgall Berkley. Graduate of Cornell University, Class of 1965, she also earned a Master's degree from Yale University and a law degree from Benja
 BRESCIANI--Marye (nee McCarthy), on September 13, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Peter J. Bresciani. Loving mother of Elizabeth, Peter, Mary Ellen and the late Susan, and mother-in-law of Heidemarie Koop and James Millea. Cherished grandmother of Kai Alita Bresciani. Devoted sister of Marga
 EPSTEIN--Barbara B. Beloved daughter of the late Muriel Wise Epstein and Max Irving Epstein, sister of Irene Spencer and member of the Epstein family of Boston, Massachusetts, aunt of Denise Hawks and loving greataunt of Casey Lam, departed peacefully at home after a short illness, on Septe
 FALLACI--Oriana. Rizzoli International Publications mourns the death, on September 15, 2006, of a fearless and controversial writer. Born in Florence, Italy and politicized from a very early age by her anti-Fascist father, Oriana Fallaci began a career in journalism as a teenager, and often
 FUCHS--Cara Skoler. August 25, 2006. Professor in English and Core Departments at Fairleigh Dickinson University. Loving wife of Daniel. Devoted mother of Margot Schwartz and Sabrina Abrams. Beloved grandmother of Andrew, Natasha and Susannah. Her vibrancy and warmth will be missed.       
 GLADSTEIN - Judi. The American Friends of the Bible Lands Museum Jerusalem mourns the passing of our esteemed Member of the Board, Judi Gladstein, and staunch supporter of the museum's outstanding coexistence project programs. The family requests that donations in her memory be made to supp
 GROSSMAN -- Marilyn (Klein). Of Somers, died at age 76, on September 15, 2006, following a brief and courageous battle with cancer. Marilyn is survived by her husband Dave, children, Barbara Grossman (Jay Berger), Stephen Grossman (Sally Hellerman), Jeffrey Grossman, grandchildren, Alex, Be
 HEEREN--Aimee de Sa Sottomaior, died at home Wednesday morning, of complications following pneumonia, aged 103. Mrs. Heeren was born in Castro in the Province of Parana, Brazil. When they were still in their teens, Aimee and her sister Vera accompanied their parents to Rio De Janeiro, where
 LIEBERMAN--Beverly (Trodgon) 54, of Highland Beach, FL and of Bigfork, MT peacefully left us on Sept 11, 2006 after a 12 year long battle with breast cancer. Her healing spirit, love of family and friends, and her ability to light up a room will be greatly missed. She is survived by her ado
 MARCUS--Bernice, B. died on August 25, 2006, in Aventura, FL. She was an inspired teacher and Principal in Brooklyn for 40 years. She will be missed--but her memory endures.       
 SCRIBNER--Eunice Russell Bastedo, 96, died on August 15, 2006. Beloved by son, David Scribner Jr. of Manhattan, daughter Susan Heitner of Brooklyn, and Waterbury Ctr., VT, six grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren. Descendant of early Dutch and French settlers and founder of the Officer
 ROGGE - SCOLNICK--Andrea. Of NYC and Westhampton Beach, on September 13, 2006. Beloved wife and business partner of Tony for 30 years. Funeral services were private. Donations in her memory to East End Hospice, PO Box 1048, Westhampton Beach, NY 11978; or Bide-AWee, 118 Old Country Rd, West
 A memorial tribute to the actress Maureen Stapleton will take place on Monday at 1 p.m. at the Circle in the Square Theater, 50th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue. Ms. Stapleton, who died on March 13 at the age of 80, made her Broadway debut in 1946 in ''The Playboy of the Western 
 BOEGNER -- Margaret Phipps. Died peacefully on September 16, 2006, at her house in Old Westbury, Long Island. Born in London, 1906, only daughter of John S. and Margarita Grace Phipps. Married J. Gordon Douglas Jr., 1930, and Etienne Boegner, 1950. She is survived by her loving family, her 
 EPSTEIN--Barbara B. Beloved daughter of the late Muriel Wise Epstein and Max Irving Epstein, sister of Irene Spencer and member of the Epstein family of Boston, Massachusetts, aunt of Denise Hawks and loving greataunt of Casey Lam, departed peacefully at home after a short illness, on Septe
 Forker--Helen Elizabeth ''Betty'', of Venice, FL, died of heart failure on September 14, 2006. She was born in New York City and came to Venice in 1992 from Southport, CT. She was a graduate of the Convent of the Sacred Heart, 91st St, and Manhattanville College. Mrs. Forker was a homemaker
 LINDENBAUM -- Belle (nee Axelrad). Died peacefully in her 98th year on September 17, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Abraham M. (Bunny). Devoted mother of Sandy and Linda. Loving grandmother of Erica (Steven M. Tishman) and Laurie (Robert A. Horne). Cherished greatgrandmother of Adam, Stuart
 ROUBLEV--Flora Ohana. 102 years. Friday, September 15. She touched many hearts. Service Monday, September 25, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave, at 2 pm.       
 BACHENHEIMER--Kather ine. Wife of the late Howard Bachenheimer, died peacefully at age 95, on September 10, 2006. A businesswoman and activist, she was devoted to improving public life in the City. Her spirit and wit will be missed by her family members and friends.       
 Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 82 and also
 Margaret Phipps Boegner, who opened her family's vast Long Island estate, Old Westbury Gardens, to the public, died on Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 99. Her death was announced by the gardens, of which she was founder and former chairwoman. Mrs. Boegner 
 BOEGNER--Margaret Phipps. The Board of Trustees of Old Westbury Gardens and its family of staff, volunteers and supporters express their admiration for her steadfast vision in preserving the creation of her parents, and her appreciation of its lasting beauty. Her love of her visitors was fe
 LAWFORD--Patricia Kennedy. Kennedy Child Study Center is saddened by the passing of our Board member, Patricia Kennedy Lawford. Mrs. Lawford served diligently for many years and we will forever be indebted to her for her guidance and contributions. She will be sorely missed. Board of Direct
 LINDENBAUM--Belle. Aunt Belle, you were a quintessential elegant lady. We mourn your passing, but cherish your legacy of wit, warmth and wisdom. Our love and sympathy to Sandy, Linda, and the entire Lindenbaum family. Karen and Paul Bonheim $(6$)LINDENBAUM--Belle. A bright, beautiful and ca
 MELTZER--Barbara L., passed away at her sister's home on Sunday September 17, 2006. Beloved mother of Erica and Stephen, grandmother of Jon, Amy and Adam, sister of Herbert and Renee. Joseph W. Sorce F.H. Inc. (845) 358-4433       
 WALLACE--Eleanor Z., M.D. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother; brilliant teacher and physician; loyal friend. Service at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th St., on Tuesday, September 19th, 11:45. Donations in her memory may be made to National Public Radio or a charity of your choice. $(6
 WINCIG--Marie Grant departed peacefully on Sunday September 17th, after a long illness. Loving wife of Bernard Wincig and beloved mother of Wendy Burke Svarre, Jonathan W. Burke, and loving stepmother of Owen Wincig, and Lauren Kline. Devoted grandmother of Grant and Caroline Svarre, Jack a
 ROUBLEV--Flora O'Hana. Flora was a dear friend of the late Henry and Erna Leir. She was a woman of great wit, charm, spirit and intelligence. Estate of Henry J. Leir       
 Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 and also had a hom
 BOWER--Nancy Milender, of Cambridge, MA, longtime resident of Lincoln, MA, died peacefully on September 19, 2006. She is survived by her husband Joseph Lyon Bower, her children Jonathan Bower and Deborah Brodheim and their children Eliza and Aaron Kano-Bower, and Adam, Hannah, and Max Brodh
 DELYNN--Bernice Deutsch. On September 18, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Wilson. Devoted mother of Jane. Loving great-aunt of Jill Ruskin Sohon and her children, Danny, Kate and Tucker, Jr. Services Wednesday 12:45 at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LAWFORD--Patricia Kennedy. Kennedy Child Study Center is saddened by the passing of our Board member, Patricia Kennedy Lawford. Mrs. Lawford served diligently for many years and we will forever be indebted to her for her guidance and contributions. She will be sorely missed. Board of Direct
 LINDENBAUM--Belle. Aunt Belle, you were the quintessential elegant lady. We mourn your passing, but cherish your legacy of wit, warmth and wisdom. Our love and sympathy to Sandy, Linda, and the entire Lindenbaum family. Karen and Paul Bonheim $(6$)LINDENBAUM -- Belle (nee Axelrad). 
 MOSKOWITZ--Charlotte. In her 95th year, Charlotte Moskowitz, beloved wife of the late Carl J. Moskowitz, devoted mother of Freya and Louis Stern, Ruth and Neil Underberg, loving grandmother of Amy and David Applebaum, James & Terry Underberg, Jonathan and Nicole Stern, Jennifer and Matthew 
 ROTHENBERG--Corinne. On September 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late William. Loving mother of Ronald and Kathy and Mace and Joyce. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie and Bryce. She will be deeply missed by her family and many friends. Service Wednesday, 1:30 p.m. at ''The Riverside'', 76th
 FINEMAN--Barbara S. Died September 16, 2006. She is survived by her brother, niece, grand nephew and countless friends. In lieu of flowers, please make a dontation in Barbara's name to the New York City ASPCA.       
 GRUBER--Wendy. The award-winning and noted artist died peacefully in her Tiburon, CA home on September 12, 2006 from complications of leukemia. She was 55 years old. Originally from New Jersey, Wendy painted ''en plein air'' capturing the beauty of her beloved Marin County, Latin America an
 LINDENBAUM -- Belle (nee Axelrad). Died peacefully in her 98th year on September 17, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Abraham M. (Bunny). Devoted mother of Sandy and Linda. Loving grandmother of Erica (Steven M. Tishman) and Laurie (Robert A. Horne). Cherished greatgrandmother of Adam, Stuart
 SCHWED--Antonia Holding, 86, died peacefully in her New York City home on September 10. A published novelist, writer and poet, she was particularly well-known for her exceptionally crafted enamel jewelry and wood-based sculptures. The beloved wife of the late Peter Schwed, she is survived b
 SMITH--Bailey, 76, of Sayville, LI, on September 19, 2006. Survived by her pets Deirdre, Maude and Polly; her cousins Richard Wallace Smith and Bailey Smith and their children, and Virginia Louise Smith, as well as countless devoted and caring friends. Reposing Friday, 2-4:30 & 79:30 p.m. a
 BITCON - DANILEVSKY--Jan. On September 20th after a short illness. Beloved wife of Constantine, cherished mother of Nick and Alex, special sister to John and Sue, loving aunt to Clara and Georgina. She had energy, enthusiasm, love and warmth in such abundance. We are grateful to have known 
 MOSKOWITZ--Charlotte. In her 95th year, Charlotte Moskowitz, beloved wife of the late Carl J. Moskowitz, devoted mother of Freya and Louis Stern, Ruth and Neil Underberg, loving grandmother of Amy and David Applebaum, James & Terry Underberg, Jonathan and Nicole Stern, Jennifer and Matthew 
 SCIAMSI--Bernardette MarieJosee. Miss Bernadette Sciamsi (73) returned to her Heavenly Father Tuesday morning after a courageous battle with cancer for the past several years. Bernadette was born in Paris, France and emigrated to the United States with her parents Charlotte and Assaad Sciam
 Evelyn Ortner, who with her husband, Everett, was among the first, the most vocal and the most effective champions of the brownstone revival that spread from Brooklyn to the rest of the country, died on Tuesday at her home in Park Slope. She was 82. The cause has not been determined
 ORTNER--Evelyn. Come add pictures, anecdotes, and memories to a new webpage celebrating Evelyn's rich life at preservationvolunteers.com/ evelyn. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions to Preservation Volunteers, 232 E. 11th St., NY, NY 10003. ORTNER--Evelyn. The Broo
 ROSE--Jessica. August 13, 2006. Acclaimed artist and self-taught jeweler fused sculpture and fashion in Soho galleries, Paris runways, Hollywood films and Tiffany's windows. Her work, like her spirit, was unorthodox, graceful and fun. Daughter of Dorothea Dessauer and Garth Williams, the il
 WALSH--Ann H. On September 20, 2006 of Garden City, New York and Stuart, Florida. Devoted wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Edward, Patricia and Timothy and mother-in-law of Alice and Marie. Devoted grandmother of Peter, Stephen, Bridget and Connor. Graduate of The Mary Louis Academ
 Beth Levine, an innovative American shoe designer whose boots, as Nancy Sinatra sang while wearing them, were made for walking, died on Wednesday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. The cause was lung cancer, said her niece, Nan Bush, the wife and producing partner of the ph
 Hélène Deschamps Adams, who as a teenager in France defied death by spying for groups resisting Nazi occupiers and their collaborators, and later for the United States, died on Sept. 16 in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Karyn Anic
 BELSON--Ruth. Beloved wife of David Belson (pre-deceased). Noted and distinguished labor attorney. Coauthor with her husband of a series of successful ''how to'' books. Ruth enjoyed good health during her 98 years. She passed away peacefully in Laguna Hills, CA. She will be missed by her su
 GLADDON--Adrienne. (Everts and Van Aalst.) In her 99th year. Survived by husband, Jan Gladdon. Daughter Dianne Maxwell Albert, three grandchildren Tracy, Meredith, Richard, one greatgrandchild Michael Phillips. Memorial Spring '07 Holland.       
 GOTTLIEB--Anne. Died a few days short of her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Martin Gottlieb, noted real estate attorney, mother of Professor Leslie Gottlieb, Dorothy Naskin and Sandra Ornstein. Grandmother of Dr. Steven Naskin, Susan Naskin, Michael and David Gottlieb. Great-grand
 HEWLETT--Erma ''Johnnie'' (nee Hartung). Of Cedarhurst, LI, on September 20th, 2006, in her 98th year. Wife of the late Frederick V. W. Hewlett. Dear mother of Carolyn Knight. Fond sister of Marie Haskins. Retired public school teacher, UFSD #       
 ORTNER--Evelyn. BAM mourns our 30-year Board member and friend. Sincere condolences to her loving husband Everett. $(6$)ORTNER--Evelyn. Come add pictures, anecdotes, and memories to a new webpage celebrating Evelyn's rich life at preservationvolunteers.com/ evelyn. In lieu of flower
 SUSSAL--Pearl. Died peacefully Friday, September 22, with her family at her side, Mt. Sinai. Born December 3, 1919, in Brooklyn, to Fanny and Charles Pivnick, she was the last remaining of sisters Annette, Libby and Selma. Graduating from King Country Nursing School in 1941 with still best 
 VANDER ELS--Estella (nee Smith), died peacefully on Friday, September 22, 2006, at her home in Wyckoff, NJ. Estella, a descendent of the original Dutch settlers of Bergen County, was born in Waldwick, NJ, and lived there until moving to Wyckoff, NJ, in 1961. A 1931 graduate of Douglass Coll
 VICTOR--Florence Miriam, on September 6. Survived by her sister Toby Sulenski, her aunt, cousins and friends. Exceptionally talented poet, witty and perceptive. Dearest Fagel, we love and miss you.       
 ALBECK--Suzy. Born in Paris, died in Berlin, on September 23, at the age of 72. Woman of the world. Beloved mother of Jacques and devoted grandmother, Suzy is the cherished sister of Allen Oster and sister-in-law of Carla Fine of NYC. Suzy's spirit and smile reflected a resilience shaped by
 EWEN--Susan de Armas. 65, died on September 22 following spontaneous cerebral hemorrhages. She was the beloved wife of Ira, cherished sister of Douglas and Scott Velsor and Joan Petrillo, loving stepmother of Rani Dalgin, Jessica Kahan, Lara Ewen and Britt Ewen. She is also survived by four
 FEINSTEIN -- Ann Riva. Passed away on September 22, in NYC. She was the loving mother of Jill and Jonathan, the beloved daughter of Edith S. Cohen and the late Samuel S. Cohen, and the devoted sister of Matthew Cohen. We will miss her warmth, friendliness and generosity. Funeral at Riversid
 GLADDON--Adrienne. (Everts and Van Aalst.) In her 99th year. Survived by husband, Jan Gladdon. Daughter Dianne Maxwell Albert, three grandchildren Tracy, Meredith, Richard, one greatgrandchild Michael Phillips. Memorial Spring '07 Holland.       
 LEMBECK--Rhoda A. Beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and loving mother of Tony and Liza. Mother-in-law to Bradley and Andrea. Special Granny to Sophie, Amelia, Gabriel, Spencer, Jared and Averi. A lifelong sportswoman, extraordinary cook and homemaker. The ambience of her homes was notable to
 ROSE--Leila. Softly passed at home on Friday, September 22. Acclaimed singer and song stylist. Her beauty was only surpassed by her talent and class! Magnificent Wife, Mother, Nana, and Gigi. Her music will resonate in our hearts forever. Services September 25, 10 am, Crestwood Memorial Cha
 ANATOLE--Lucille, 87, of Greenwich, CT, and formerly of Egremont, MA, and Lawrence, NY, died at her home on September 24th, 2006. She will always be remembered as Babs. Beloved wife of David (Tolia) for 66 years, loving mother of Amy Schwab and her husband Jim, and Mark Anatole and his wife
 FEINSTEIN -- Ann Riva. Passed away on September 22, in NYC. She was the loving mother of Jill and Jonathan, the beloved daughter of Edith S. Cohen and the late Samuel S. Cohen, and the devoted sister of Matthew Cohen. We will miss her warmth, friendliness and generosity. Funeral at Riversid
 LAZAR--Judy. It is with profound sadness that we mourn our friend, colleague and SAJES Board member, Judy Lazar. Judy was a dedicated supporter of Jewish education and a beloved member of this community. Judy touched many lives in many ways--chairing events and taking on countless leadershi
 LEMBECK--Rhoda A. Beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and loving mother of Tony and Liza. Mother-in-law to Bradley and Andrea. Special Granny to Sophie, Amelia, Gabriel, Spencer, Jared and Averi. A lifelong sportswoman, extraordinary cook and homemaker. The ambience of her homes was notable to
 ORTNER--Evelyn. Pratt Institute is grateful for the life and contributions of Evelyn Ortner, an interior design alumna. Evelyn contributed richly and joyfully to the arts and historic preservation in Brooklyn. She was a wonderful friend and will be deeply missed. Thomas F. Schutte President
 SULLIVAN--Kathryn, RSCJ, prominent Catholic biblical scholar, longtime professor at Manhattanville University, died September 22 at Kenwood Convent, Albany, NY at age 101. Sr. Sullivan, of the Society of the Sacred Heart, became in 1947 the first woman elected to membership in the Catholic 
 ANATOLE--Lucille, 87, of Greenwich, CT, and formerly of Egremont, MA, and Lawrence, NY, died at her home on September 24th, 2006. She will always be remembered as Babs. Beloved wife of David (Tolia) for 66 years, loving mother of Amy Schwab and her husband Jim, and Mark Anatole and his wife
 BERNSTEIN--Helene. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Helene Bernstein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband, Arthur, and other members of her family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 BUXBAUM--Reba, We are saddened to announce the death of our mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, in her 95th year, on September 23, 2006. Arline Tarte Steve and Shelly Buxbaum, Scott and Karen Tarte, Elissa and Adam Beerman, Lisa and Adam Buxbaum, Evan, James, and Kaitlin Tarte.     
 ROCKOWITZ--Anna C. The Hunter community mourns the passing of our loyal and esteemed alumna. A graduate of Hunter College High School and Hunter College, she and her late husband devoted their lives to their children, public education and Jewish causes. The Doctor Murray and Anna Rockowitz 
 Iva Toguri D'Aquino, the Japanese-American convicted of treason in 1949 for broadcasting propaganda from Japan to United States servicemen in World War II as the seductive but sinister Tokyo Rose, died Tuesday in Chicago. Mrs. D'Aquino, who served more than six years in prison but s
 FISCHER--Celia Bender beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother died at 103 as she lived. A woman of kindness, dignity, sensitivity and beauty, she leaves to her family and to all who knew her an enduring legacy of unconditional love. You may wish to honor her memory with a co
 VAN VRANKEN--Nancy S. 68, of Jericho, NY, died September 23, 2006 , after a stroke. Daughter of the late Dale and Merle Sharp, wife of J. Frederick Van Vranken, Jr. and mother of Virginia V. Ziobro and Cynthia V. Keating. She was also the grandmother of Dale, Geoffrey and Christina Ziobro a
 SCHMELTZER--Gertrude. The Talmud teaches us that it is possible for one to die without sin and for the living to mourn without guilt. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of American Friends of Magen David Adom-ARMDI mourn the passing of Gertrude Schmeltzer at the age of 96. Gertrude w
 Ernestine Bayer, who founded a pioneering women's rowing club in 1938 on the Schuylkill in Philadelphia, rowed competitively into her 90's and became known as the mother of women's rowing, died Sept. 10 in Exeter, N.H. She was 97. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her d
 Maureen Daly, a writer whose first novel, ''Seventeenth Summer,'' anticipated the young-adult genre by decades when it appeared in 1942 and has endured as a classic coming-of-age story, died on Monday in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 85 and made her home in Palm Desert. The cause was 
 HANFORD--Grail S. April 10, 1932 to September 23, 2006. Grail S. Hanford, the daughter of Agnes Kane Hanford and Warren Day Hanford was born in Far Rockaway, New York. She graduated from the Cathedral School of St. Mary in Garden City, New York and from Smith College in 1954. Miss Hanford w
 SCHER--Pearl Crystal. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of our dear Pearl: World War II veteran, community activist and beloved member of our Museum family. We extend our condolences to her family and to her multitude
 SERKEY--Hanne, on September 28, 2006 at age 92, after a life of loving care for family, friends and those in need. Devoted daughter of Siegfried and Fanny Mann, she is survived by her beloved husband, Rene, sons Robert and Richard, daughters-in-law Louise and Pauline, grandchildren Ethan, R
 SOODAK--Jeannette. On September 28, 2006. Devoted wife to George for 26 years. Loving mother to Iris, Mitchell, Leslie, Bob, Rebecca & Ian. Proud grandmother of Jonathan, Gaby, Rubin, Ellis, Cassie and Shay. Adored by all who knew her. Service Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Stre
 SULLIVAN--Kathryn (RSCJ), 101 years old, died September 22nd at the Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany, New York. Sr. Sullivan graduated from Manhattanville College in 1926 with a bachelor's degree. Two years later, she entered the Society of the Sacred Heart and, in 1937, earned
 VAN VRANKEN--Nancy S. 68, of Jericho, NY, died September 23, 2006 , after a stroke. Daughter of the late Dale and Merle Sharp, wife of J. Frederick Van Vranken, Jr. and mother of Virginia V. Ziobro and Cynthia V. Keating. She was also the grandmother of Dale, Geoffrey and Christina Ziobro a
 Martha Holmes, a photographer for Life magazine for 40 years, who was known for her intimate portraits but also for covering sports at a time when that was male turf, died on Sept. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 83. The death was confirmed by her son-in-law, John Koshel.      
 DENHAM--Mary Orr Actress and author, died September 22, 2006 at age 94. She was preceded in death by her husband, Reginald Denham, with whom she collaborated on writing scripts for the theater, notably ''Wallflower'' which premiered on Broadway at the Cort Theater in 1944. She published man
 TIEFER--Rosalind Crost, 92, Meadowview, Mt. Vernon, NY, died September 28, 2006. Born to Brooklyn Jews of Dutch descent, graduated from Brooklyn College ('33), Juilliard, and Columbia Teachers' College. Rosalind won piano prizes and a Philharmonic scholarship, played in Simeon Bellison's Cl
 HIRSCHFELD -- Phyllis D. Adored wife of the late Leonard; mother of Alan, John and Tom; grandmother of Alexa, James, Rebecca, Nicholas, Ben and Leila; devoted aunt and friend; accomplished author. Beloved by all fortunate enough to know her. Services Tuesday 1 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 81st 
