Florence McDonald, an outspoken radical who was elected to two public offices in Berkeley, Calif., in the 1970's, died of cancer Thursday at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Calif. She was 73 years old and lived in Berkeley. Florence McDonald, an outspoken radical who was elected t
Jean Bloustein, a longtime volunteer in the Jewish community, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx, after a long illness. She was 80 years old and lived in the Bronx. Jean Bloustein, a longtime volunteer in the Jewish community, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospi
Nancy Makepeace Tanner, an anthropologist and author of ''On Becoming Human,'' which deals with food-gatherers in early human evolution, died of a heart attack June 20 at the home of her brother-in-law in Tucson, Ariz. She was 56 years old. Nancy Makepeace Tanner, an anthropol
Norma French, an American coloratura soprano who sang with the New York City Opera, died of lymphoma on June 26 at Toronto General Hospital. She was 47 years old. Norma French, an American coloratura soprano who sang with the New York City Opera, died of lymphoma on June 26 at
Allegra Knapp Mertz, the only woman to win yachting's most prestigious accolade, the Nathanael D. Herreshoff award, died yesterday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle. She was 76 years old. Allegra Knapp Mertz, the only woman to win yachting's most prestigious accolade, the Nat
Jacqueline Mayhew Ireland, a former civic leader in Manhattan, died of cancer Wednesday at her summer home in Pemaquid Harbor, Me. She was 65 years old and had lived in Thomasville, Ga., since 1986. Jacqueline Mayhew Ireland, a former civic leader in Manhattan, died of cancer 
Marie M. Seedor, a former associate professor of nursing education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died of ovarian cancer on July 4 at her home in Melbourne, Fla. She was 71 years old. Marie M. Seedor, a former associate professor of nursing education at Teachers C
Moto Saito, a restaurateur who was among the first to introduce Japanese cuisine to New Yorkers, died of heart failure June 13 in Tokyo. She was 82 years old and lived in Tokyo. Moto Saito, a restaurateur who was among the first to introduce Japanese cuisine to New Yorkers, di
Ralynn N. Stadler, a poet, writer and a trustee since 1977 of Westhcester County Community College, died yesterday at her home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. after a long illness. She was 64 years old. Ralynn N. Stadler, a poet, writer and a trustee since 1977 of Westhcester County Commu
Sister Agnes Reinkemeyer, the former dean of the College of Nursing at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J., was killed July 12 at a health-care mission she had founded in the village of Wema, in Kenya, East Africa. She was 65 years old and had lived at the mission since 1983. 
Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 67 years old. Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhat
Dayal Kaur Khalsa, an author and illustrator of children's books, died of breast cancer Monday at her home in Vancouver, British Columbia. She was 46 years old. Dayal Kaur Khalsa, an author and illustrator of children's books, died of breast cancer Monday at her home in Vancou
Sister Evelyn McLaughlin, principal of St. Barnabas High School in the Bronx for the last 18 years, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday at a Sisters of Charity residence in Ardsley, N.Y., where she lived. She was 63 years old. Sister Evelyn McLaughlin, principal of St. Barnabas 
Marie-Madeleine Fourcade, a French Resistance hero who was once smuggled out of the country in a mailbag to escape the Nazis, died today in a Paris military hospital, friends reported. She was 79 years old. Marie-Madeleine Fourcade, a French Resistance hero who was once smuggl
Mary Treen, a character actress who appeared in more than 40 movies, died of cancer on Thursday at her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 82 years old. Mary Treen, a character actress who appeared in more than 40 movies, died of cancer on Thursday at her home in Newport Bea
Ruth West, a New York writer and former advertising executive, died as the result of a stroke Thursday at United Hospital in Portchester, N.Y. She was 84 years old and lived at the Osborn Retirement Community in Rye, N.Y. Ruth West, a New York writer and former advertising exe
Janet Lee Auchincloss Morris, a leading member of society in Newport, R.I., and Washington, D.C., and the mother of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Lee Radziwill Ross, died Saturday after a long illness at her home on Hammersmith Farm in Newport. She was 81 years old and also had a hom
Genevieve Naylor, a fashion photographer whose work appeared in Vogue, Harper's Bazaar, Good Housekeeping, McCall's, Cosmopolitan and other magazines, died of heart failure Friday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 74 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry. Genevieve Naylor, 
Lucetta Harkness, who taught English at high schools in Queens for more than a quarter-century and then became a Methodist missionary teacher in Japan, died of an intestinal hemorrhage on July 18 at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 92 years old and lived in Whitestone, 
Frances Clarke Sayers, a librarian, teacher and author who specialized in children's literature, died after a stroke Monday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She was 91 years old. Frances Clarke Sayers, a librarian, teacher and author who specialized in children's literature, died a
Juanita H. Miner, who worked for the New York City Department of Correction for 24 years, mostly in supervisory positions on Rikers Island, died after a stroke Saturday at the Berkshire Medical Center In Pittsfield, Mass. She was 57 years old and lived in the Bronx. Juanita H.
Juanita H. Miner, who worked for the New York City Department of Correction for 24 years, mostly in supervisory positions on Rikers Island, died after a stroke Saturday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 57 years old and lived in the Bronx. Juanita H.
Kyriena Siloti, a piano teacher who was the daughter of the pianist and conductor Alexander Siloti, died of a heart attack at New York Hospital on Friday. She was 94 years old and lived in Manhattan. Kyriena Siloti, a piano teacher who was the daughter of the pianist and condu
Dr. Rosamond Kane, an orthopedic surgeon, died of breast cancer yesterday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 62 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Dr. Rosamond Kane, an orthopedic surgeon, died of breast cancer yesterday at the New York Hospita
Nancy Andrews, a stage actress and singer hailed for starring performances in ''Little Me'' opposite Sid Caesar and in ''Tobacco Road'' with John Carradine, died on Saturday of a heart attack at St. John's Hospital in Queens. Miss Andrews, who was 68 years old, had lived in Manhattan 
