 GOLDMAN-Judy. We share your grief and great loss and will miss our Judy and think of her always as a shining star. Marilyn and Jerome Weiss       
 GREITZER-Shirley Aronoff. Of New York, died suddenly but peacefully on Wednesday, May 29, 2002. The pianist and former Director of Placement at the Juilliard School of Music was inspirational to those she helped and those she loved. Her family mourns her loss with the deepest love and affec
 MOORE-Kate. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Katonah Museum of Art express their deepest condolences and sympathies to our Trustee and past President, Katherine Moore, her husband David and their family on the loss of their daughter. Victoria Morris, President, Board of Trustees Susan
 PERLICH-Toby G. On May 30, 2002, at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Myron Perlich. Superlative mother of daughter Kay Brover and husband Arthur Bennett of NYC, and son Martin Perlich of Los Angeles. Baby sister of Rabbi Albert S. Goldstein of Brookline, humorous and elegant gran
 WILSON-Eleanor D. ''Siddy'', 93, actress and artist, died peacefully after a year-long struggle with lung cancer on May 31, 2002 at her home in Williamstown, MA. A memorial service will be held Monday at 1:00 PM at St. John's Episcopal Church, 35 Park St, Williamstown, MA. In lieu of flower
 Flora Lewis, a correspondent and columnist who explained international politics to readers of The New York Times and other publications for nearly 60 years, died early Sunday morning at her home in Paris. She was 79. The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson. Heads 
 FRANK-Doris A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sadness the death of Doris Frank, a devoted former trustee. Doris and her husband, Richard, Sr., were both dedicated to bettering the lives of children. Our condolences to her dau
 GREITZER-Shirley Aronoff. Of New York, died suddenly but peacefully on Wednesday, May 29, 2002. The pianist and former Director of Placement at the Juilliard School of Music was inspirational to those she helped and those she loved. Her family mourns her loss with the deepest love and affec
 HOFMANN-Erna. May 29th, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Herbert A. Hofmann. Loving mother of Herbert C. Hofmann, Erna West, Marilyn Harrison, Mary Herman, and the late Gregory Hofmann. Cherished grandmother of 11 and great grandmother of eight. She was the most wonderful mother, grandmother 
 MARDER-Jamie Kay, 37, of Studio City, CA, formerly of Tenafly, NJ, passed away suddenly on May 27. She is survived by her mother Ellen, her father and his wife Jerome and Agatha; her three sisters and their husbands, Nancy and Jeremy, Wendy and Milton and Karen and Adam, and her brother Sco
 MILLER-Anne Kalmikoff. Died on May 25, 2002. She will be remembered for her great strength, vitality, unsinkable spirit, common sense, and remarkable inner and outer beauty. She was a caring woman who was generous in every way. She was a devoted wife to her late husband, Sidney, an adoring 
 MOORE-Kate Cromwell. Of Auburndale, MA, much beloved and loving daughter of Katherine and David E. Moore of Rye, NY, died suddenly May 26th. She was born January 10th, 1953 and is survived by three brothers, Dick, David and Tim, three sisters-in-law, Barbara, Evelyn and Deborah, four nieces
 PERMISOHN-Mildred A. 92 joined her late husband, Matthias, May 28. Born in Des Moines, with a music degree from Drake University, music and her violin were always in her life. She was very active in the Bronx Arts Ensemble (BAE). Her resume included the Navy Dept. in Washington, and Newswee
 SKLAR-Ann Skolnick. Born West Haven, CT, 1907, died May 21, 2002, Queens, NY. Married to Philip Sklar (d. 1956), Toscaninni's principal bassist with the NBC Symphony. Worked for the Queens Public Library. Graduate of Ann Arbor University, MI, and Columbia University, NY. Beloved by her chil
 SOLETSKY-Maxine Svigals, RN. On May 30, in Houston, TX. Wife of Louis M. Soletsky. Beloved mother of Marjorie Leventon, Susan Soletsky, Beth Lodinger and Philip Soletsky. Grandmother of Isaac, Nathan, Natalie, David, Jacob, Zachary, Ari and Samuel. She made the world a better place. In lieu
 WILSON-Eleanor D. ''Siddy'', 93, actress and artist, died peacefully after a year-long struggle with lung cancer on May 31, 2002 at her home in Williamstown, MA. A memorial service will be held Monday at 1:00 PM at St. John's Episcopal Church, 35 Park St, Williamstown, MA. In lieu of flower
 ARONOWITZ - George. Sixteen years have passed and you are still, and will always be, a legend, so loved and missed even by those who never knew you. Our loving Mom did this all these years and now she is with you. How lucky we were to have had you both. All of our love. Merrill, Andy, Todd,
 Elka Spoerri, an art historian and curator who unlocked the riches of the art of Adolf Wölfli, died May 17 at her home in Bern, Switzerland. She was 77 and lived in Bern and New York. She died of cancer, said her son, Anselm. Mrs. Spoerri, who sometimes jokingly referred to
 Flora Lewis, a correspondent and columnist who explained international politics to readers of The New York Times and other publications for nearly 60 years, died early yesterday morning at her home in Paris. She was 79. The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson. Hea
 BLACK-Lillian. Formerly of Cedurhurst, NY, died May 31, 2002, in her home in Los Angeles, CA. She was the devoted wife of the late Philip Black, and daughter of Rose and Abraham Stein. She is survived by her son Michael, and her son Daniel, his wife Jan and their children Alex and Jonny, wh
 GOLDSCHLAG-Isabel. Of Middle Island, NY, died suddenly on May 28, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother of Hal (Laurie) and Paul (Michele). Wonderful grandmother of Evan and Sydney. Dear sister of Dr. Warren Seides. Deeply missed by friends and family. Contributions in her 
 WILSON-Eleanor D. ''Siddy'', 93, actress and artist, died peacefully after a year-long struggle with lung cancer on May 31, 2002 at her home in Williamstown, MA. A memorial service will be held Monday at 1:00 PM at St. John's Episcopal Church, 35 Park St, Williamstown, MA. In lieu of flower
 YON-Elizabeth Louise (Betsy). Age 44, of Talladega, AL, died June 1, 2002, at her family home in Chelsea, AL. Betsy worked for 13 years with Liberty Brokerage in New York and she was a resident of Park Slope, Brooklyn, until 1999. Funeral services will be held at 2:30 PM, June 4, at St. Pet
 BEATMAN - Frances L. Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sadness the death of Frances L. Beatman, a nationally respected professional social worker, family therapist and family theorist. Beginning as a young social worker 
 BEATMAN-Frances Levinson. The family mourns her passing on May 31, 2002 at the age of 92. As a social worker and philanthropist, she was a devoted board member of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services for many years. Prior to that, she was Executive Director of Jewish Family Se
 BLACK-Lillian. Formerly of Cedurhurst, NY, died May 31, 2002, in her home in Los Angeles, CA. She was the devoted wife of the late Philip Black, and daughter of Rose and Abraham Stein. She is survived by her son Michael, and her son Daniel, his wife Jan and their children Alex and Jonny, wh
 EISENSTAT - Bonnie. The Trustees, Dean, Faculty, students, and staff of New York Law School express our sorrow for the great loss to our community of Bonnie Eisenstat, beloved and esteemed first-year student. We offer our deepest condolences and sympathies to her husband, Mark, and daughter
 GROSJEAN - Priscilla (Tooty). Nee Weld. Of Haverford, Pa. and Wareham, Ma. On May 31, 2002. Wife of the late Charles A. Grosjean. Mother of Claire de Villers Grandchamps, Michelle Grosjean Brewster and Daphne de La Hamaide. Also survived by five grandchildren Eric de Villers Grandchamps, Sy
 HERSHEY-Tinnie. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member Tinnie Hershey. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 HEWITT-Margaret E. On behalf of the Officers and Staff of Solow Building Company, we deeply mourn the passing of Margaret E. Hewitt, who served as our Executive Vice President for more than 22 years. Her integrity, loyalty, dedication and leadership was truly unsurpassed. Our heartfelt cond
 LE GARREC-Leontine, nee Saint-Jalmes. We are grieved to announce that Mrs. Leontine Le Garrec, nee SaintJalmes, has passed away suddenly at the age of 66, mourned by all her family.       
 LEWIS-Flora. The Trustees, alumni, residents and staff of International House note with sorrow the passing of distinguished alumna Flora Lewis, 1990 Recipient of the Harry Edmonds Award for Outstanding Lifetime Achievement. Her extraordinary career in journalism constitutes a major legacy i
 ROTH-Ida. Died on June 1, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Eric Roth. Devoted mother of Carol Meyer and mother-inlaw of Paul Meyer. Cherished grandmother of Elise and Illana Meyer. She will be greatly missed by family and friends, and will be forever in the hearts of those who love her deeply
 STOWELL-Helen (nee D'Olier) age 89 of New Vernon, NJ on Friday May 31, 2002. Wife of the late Edward Esty Stowell. Mother of Esty Stowell, Jr of NYC, Alice Fellowes Stowell of Somerville, MA, Jenepher Stowell of Bolinas, CA, Franklin D. D'Olier Stowell of Bainbridge Island, WA. She is also 
 Caroline Knapp, a writer and columnist whose memoir ''Drinking: A Love Story'' vividly chronicled her struggle to overcome alcoholism, died yesterday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. She was 42 and lived in Cambridge. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. In ''Drinkin
 BAIGELMAN - Henry. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Henry Baigelman, beloved father of ADL National Executive Committee Member, Riva Berelson. We extend our condolences to Riva, her mother Gita and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman Natio
 BEATMAN-Frances. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Frances Beatman, a cherished friend who was a devoted board member of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, a UJAFederation affiliated agency. Mrs. Beatman will be re
 BENDO-Tessie. June 4, 2002. Beloved wife of Alexander Bendo. Devoted mother of Catherine and her husband Dickerson Wright, Areta Bendo, John Bendo, MD and his wife Lea. Cherished grandmother of Lauren, Stephanie, Christina, Alexis, Alexander and Andrew. Loving sister of Agnes and Peter. She
 MCCAW-Susan. The lawyers and staff of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering mourn the loss of Susan McCaw, wife of our partner, Bob McCaw. Susan was an amazing, vibrant woman who touched the lives of all who knew her. She will be missed. Our deepest sympathies to Bob, Anne and Ben.       
 O'SHEA - Mathilde Plaisi mond. Passed away on June 1, 2002 after a long illness. She was 71 years old. She was the loving wife of James O'Shea, the mother of Mrs. MarieMichelle Jeannot, Mrs. Yolette D. Lissade, and the grandmother of Steve, Carmine and Kenny Jeannot, Anne Gaelle, Guerdy Jr.
 PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. Died June 4, 2002. Beloved wife of Robert. Mother of Richard and John, grandmother of Malakai. Private funeral services. Memorial service will be announced. PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing,
 SELINSKY-Martha. June 2, 2002. Devoted wife of Wladimir. Beloved grandmother (Gee Gee) of Peter and Nina Goodman. Dear mother of Lori and her husband Steve, of Chevy Chase, MD.       
 WEILER-Sally. 83. Peacefully on May 31st. Beloved wife of the late David Weiler and daughter of the late Tessie and Rudolph Haas. Survived by her devoted stepdaughter Jane Papp, husband Andrew and grandson David, of Philadelphia. She will be remembered for her gentle ways.       
 BENNETT-Anna K., 89, June 4, 2002 in Richmond, VA, formerly of Neponsit, NY. She will be greatly missed by her daughter and son-in-law, Naomi and Mark Finkel, and grandsons Jason, Adam and Jonathan. Brooklyn College grad and NYC school teacher. Burial Old Montefiore, Elmont, NY, Friday, 10:
 GOGGINS-Bertha C. On June 5, 2002. Survived by Hubert Baxter, Joyce Howard, Mary Perillo, Marilyn Sattler, Patricia Smith, Debby Weiss and James Wylie. She was the former historian of the Village of Saltaire, Fire Island, NY. Visitation today 2-4 and 79PM at the White-Voltz Funeral Home, 36
 McCAW-Susan, wife, mother and mentor, died June 2, 2002 from complications caused by Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. Early on she assumed the role of caretaker, helping to raise her seven brothers and sisters. She was an ambitious student, graduating as salutatorian of her high school and then ente
 PEALE-Jean Jarvie Darling, 65, a former instrumental music teacher, died June 3, 2002 at her home. She was the beloved wife of James, mother of Frances A. Peale, James G. D. Peale, and Christie E. Peale, and grandmother of James P. Mills, Alison C. Mills and J. Sullivan Peale. A Memorial Se
 PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. Barbara Scott Preiskel, a magnificent human being who graced our earth, physically passed away on June 4th. Her spirit, her values, her modeling and advocacy of the deep worth of every human being, and the easy good humored way she went about the most serious busines
 STEWART-Mary Buchanan. Of New York City, New York, died May 24, 2002 at home. She was 92 years of age. Born in New Brunswick, Canada. She was the daughter of the late Adam & Isabel (Grattan) Stewart. Mary worked for the General Foods Corporation for 38 years. She retired in 1975. She is sur
 Elaine Gelman, a leader in the effort to make it legal in New York for specially trained nurses to prescribe drugs and perform other medical functions previously reserved for doctors, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 ANDREWS-Lavone Dickensheets, (1912-2002), a resident of Houston, Texas, and Fishers Island, New York, died in her Houston home on June 4, 2002. Mrs. Andrews received her Bachelor of Architecture degree from Rice Institute in 1935, the only woman in her class to do so. She apprenticed with n
 BARKER-Natalya A. It is with inconceivable regret that we say good-bye to our beloved wife and mother Natalia Alexandra Smolianinova. She was & always will be the spirit of our family. Natalia was always unattainable, now she truly is. Natalia was educated in Rostov, Russia and received her
 GELMAN-Elaine. The Nurse Practitioners of New York mourn the death of Elaine Gelman, Pediatric Nurse Practitioner. We recognize her vision and tireless advocacy for excellence in health care. She was a pioneer in the profession and promoted a unified voice for all nurse practitioners. Nurse
 MANSON - Jean. Beloved mother of Alan and Sheryl; devoted sister to Lou Sarfati, Lillian Cohen, Esther Hasson, Rae Russo. Loved by all. She will be missed.       
 McCAW-Susan L. The staff and Board of Directors of The Alan Guttmacher Institute are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Susan L. McCaw, our former Director of Finance and Administration. Although Susan worked at the Institute for only a short time before her illness
 PERKINS - Alice Merten Rechlin. The American Geographical Society notes with sadness the death, on June 1, 2002, of Alice Rechlin Perkins. Dr. Perkins was a Councilor of the society from 1996 through 1998 and a valued friend long before that and ever since. We will miss her good judgement, 
 PREISKEL-Barbara. To lose a close friend of over 50 years is devastating. It is hard to accept that a woman of such strength, fortitude and optimism can now live only in the thoughts of her family, friends and colleagues. Barbara was generous to a fault with her time and energy. She partici
 Barbara Scott Preiskel, a lawyer whose career helped break down racial barriers in entertainment law as well as on the numerous corporate boards on which she served, died Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, h
 BUCKNALL-Ann Macy Hamilton. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, died of cancer June 5, 2002 at Greenwich Hospital. She is survived by her husband, William Stafford of Greenwich; two sons, William H. of Emigrant, MT, and G. Stafford of Greenwich; a daughter, Elizabeth Macy Bucknall Petty o
 ROTKER-Elaine (nee Bienstock). A resident of New Rochelle, NY for 50 years, passed away on June 7, 2002; she was born on November 20, 1927 in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Martin Rotker. Together they cofounded Big Top Stores. Elaine was devoted to her family and friends. She was a
 WALDHORN-Miriam. Died Thursday, June 6, 2002. Devoted mother of Jane Stine and Richard Waldhorn and the late Amy Waterbury, mother-in-law of Whit Waterbury, Bob Stine and Jamie Gorelick. Cherished grandmother of Matt, Dan, Sam, Dana and Alex. Service 11:15 AM, Sunday, ''The Riverside'' 76th
 Phyllis Wattis, a philanthropist and art collector who contributed more than $150 million to cultural institutions in California, and who was instrumental in financing a stellar collection for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the 1990's, died on Wednesday in San Francisco, where sh
 Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney and heart failure, said
 Faye Dancer, whose home runs and spontaneous cartwheels in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's helped to earn her the nickname All the Way Faye, died May 22 in Los Angeles. She was 77 and lived in Westchester, Calif. She died of complications of surgery to remove 
 AKSELROD-Esther D. Wife of the late Israel Akselrod of New York. Died in her 98th year on May 20, 2002. Mother of Heather A. Rodin of Norwalk, CT. and Zoe Salem of New York City. Adored grandmother of Michael, David, Deborah, Holly and Barbara. Great grandmother of Aley, Seth, Emi, Benjamin
 BALDWIN-Carolyn Thomson. 87, died March 31, on Hilton Head Island, SC. She was born June 16, 1914, in New York City. Daughter of George Graham and Elizabeth Deaver Thomson. She attended Fox Croft School and Parsons School of Design. She moved to Hilton Head Island, SC, from Old Westbury, NY
 BARKER-Natalya A. It is with inconceivable regret that we say good-bye to our beloved wife and mother Natalia Alexandra Smolianinova. She was & always will be the spirit of our family. Natalia was always unattainable, now she truly is. Natalia was educated in Rostov, Russia and received her
 BLACK-Lillian. The Junior League of The Brooklyn School For Special Children records with great sorrow the passing of our dear loving friend and Past President. We extend our deepest sympathy to her sons, Michael and Danny. Beverly Weston, Pres Marcia Winikoff, VP       
 BUCKNALL-Ann Macy Hamilton. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, died of cancer June 5, 2002 at Greenwich Hospital. She is survived by her husband, William Stafford of Greenwich; two sons, William H. of Emigrant, MT, and G. Stafford of Greenwich; a daughter, Elizabeth Macy Bucknall Petty o
 DUNNE-Marie P. Age 92 on June 5, 2002 of Locust Valley, New York. Beloved mother of Robert C. Dunne. Fond sister of Jean Eakins. Also survived by two nieces and one nephew. Retired librarian at the Locust Valley High School for 16 years. Memorial service to be held Tuesday 11AM, June 11 at 
 LEWIS-Flora. The American University of Paris trustees, faculty and staff, mourn the passing of Flora Lewis, Trustee Emerita, and extend deepest sympathy to her family. Her wisdom and thoughtfulness will be missed.       
 REINSTEIN-Charlotte Canter. Of Boca Raton, FL passed away on June 5, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Lawrence Reinstein. She is survived by sons Stephen and Andrew Reinstein; granddaughter Joie Reinstein and daughter-in-law Nancy Reinstein. Services Monday, June 10, 2002, at 11:30AM a
 SOLOMON-Holly. On June 6, 2002 in New York. Devoted mother of John and Thomas Solomon. Sister of Donald Dworken. Her services will be private in Connecticut. Memorial to be held at a later date in New York City. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Guggenheim Museum, the Metropolitan Mu
 TABAK-Ronnie. The brokers and staff of Harper Lawrence mourn the loss of Ronnie Tabak, the sister of our friend and colleague Barry Goodman. She was special. Arthur Draznin Peter Tuttman Dennis Karr       
 WIENER-Sivan. Died June 5, 2002. Of Holon, Israel. Killed by a suicide bomber while riding on a bus near Megiddo. Beloved sister of Dudu Wiener had just celebrated her 19th birthday in Tel Aviv the night before the bombing. A friend said, ''She was so happy and full of life.''       
 WIKLER-Norma Juliet. 60, on May 28, at her home in Rincon de Salas, Costa Rica. Professor Emerita (sociology), University of California, Santa Cruz; Norma had also been Senior Research Associate at the Institute for the Study of Social Change, University of California, Berkeley, and Bunting
 Holly Solomon, an art dealer known for her championship of the new and untried, for her spirited, high-stepping lifestyle and for being the subject of a glamorous portrait by Andy Warhol that made her a Pop icon like Elizabeth Taylor and Marilyn Monroe, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Ke
 BODIN-Sylvia. Passed away on June 9, 2002. She was born on November 22, 1908, to Anshel and Hinda Cohen. She married Paul D. Bodin in 1930 and they lived in Yonkers, NY. Predeceased by her husband, they were the proprietors of Life Cleaners in Yonkers, now being run by the fourth generation
 BUCKNALL-Ann Macy Hamilton. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, died of cancer June 5, 2002 at Greenwich Hospital. She is survived by her husband, William Stafford of Greenwich; two sons, William H. of Emigrant, MT, and G. Stafford of Greenwich; a daughter, Elizabeth Macy Bucknall Petty o
 FELDER-Betty Rice. A longtime resident of East Hampton, NY, died peacefully in her sleep Sunday at home. She was 91. Although she had grown increasingly frail in recent months, she was blessed with good health. Her children were with her at the time of her death. She is survived by her daug
 ROTHBERG-Eva L. On June 7, 2002. Survived by her niece Audre Kornbluh.       
 ABELES - Billie, formerly Pretzfeld, 91, previously of Scarsdale, NY, and Hollywood, FL, passed away June 9th in Miami, FL. Widowed twice, Billie married Richard Abeles after the death of her first husband, George ''Jim'' Pretzfeld, with whom she resided in Scarsdale, NY. In the late 1920's
 BREUER-Constance L. On June 8, 2002, at her residence. Widow of Marcel Breuer. Mother of Thomas Breuer and Franchesca Wallace.       
 CORWIN-Sheila. 63. Of White Plains, NY on June 9, 2002. Loving mother to Donna Moss and Ellen Flaks. Sister to Judith Hochman. Devoted grandmother to Nathan, Rosalie, Ray and Ariel. Service will be Tuesday 10am at Temple Kol - Ami, White Plains, NY. Sheila's generosity of spirit enriched th
 FELDER-Betty Rice. A longtime resident of East Hampton, NY, died peacefully in her sleep Sunday at home. She was 91. Although she had grown increasingly frail in recent months, she was blessed with good health. Her children were with her at the time of her death. She is survived by her daug
 GEWIRTZ-Abraham J. (Jimmy), M.D., on June 9, 2002 at age 92. Cherished friend of Carole Newman and her children Jeffrey, William and Cynthia. Dear uncle of Barbara, Dolores, Morty, Michael, George, Bill, Mark, and cousin of Leonard. Interment private. Remembering Jimmy Tuesday, June 18, at 
 MAGDOFF-Beatrice. Died peacefully at home on June 9, 2002. She is survived by Harry, her husband of 69 years, her son Fred and his wife Amy Demarest and grandson David.       
 MERLE - Clotilde Fargo. June 6th, 2002 in San Francisco. Her family and friends celebrate eighty-eight years of a wonderful life.       
 SOLOMON-Holly. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague. We are proud that this delightful human being, who was passionately devoted to art and to the artists she represented, was a longtime ADAA member. Our sympathy and condolences to her s
 THOMAS - Beryl Dawson, died June 9, widow of Lewis Thomas, beloved mother of Abby, Judy and Eliza. We can hear her and our father laughing, together again.       
 BERGER-Gertrude M. Died yesterday, June 11, 2002 at age 91. She was a lifelong resident of Brooklyn, N.Y. She graduated from Hunter College Class of 1931, Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa. She also did graduate work at Columbia University. She taught French in the New York City school system fo
 COLLINS-Ann Ward. 94. Died at home peacefully on June 10, 2002 in the presence of her family, as she wished. Ann was a woman of great spirit, independence and compassion. Her joy of life was unwavering, as was her sense of humor, and she shared both freely. Know that she left life as she li
 KIMBALL-Carol Hardin. The Board of Trustees, Trustees Emeriti and the entire Phillips Academy community in Andover, MA express deepest sympathy at the death of Carol Hardin Kimball, Trustee Emerita. A member of the Abbot Academy Class of 1953, she was the first woman elected a Phillips Acad
 McSHANE-Susan Moore, 75, of Watch Hill, RI and Gulf Stream, FL. Died Monday, June 10 at Yale New Haven Hospital from breast cancer. Beloved wife of Gordon McShane. She also leaves five children from her first marriage to the late Dean F. Markham, her daughters, Pamela Markham Heller and Mar
 MERLE - Clotilde Fargo. June 6th, 2002 in San Francisco. Her family and friends celebrate eighty-eight years of a wonderful life.       
 PREISKEL-Barbara. Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc. mourns the passing of Ms. Barbara S. Preiskel, a distinguished leader and beloved friend. Ms. Preiskel served on our Board for 26 years. Her generous support and myriad contributions to the Federation will be long remembered.
 SKLAREW-Helen. Passed away peacefully at 92 years of age on June 8th. Mrs. Sklarew was born in New York City and lived there before moving to Palm Beach, FL. more than 20 years ago. She enjoyed a rich and full life and relished every moment. She always had a twinkle in her eye and had a kee
 SOLOMON-Holly. We will miss this grandest lady of the art world, who surrounded herself at her gallery and at home with the creations of the artists she loved, supported and represented. Thank you for all you did to make the art world so lively. Agnes Gund, Daniel Shapiro       
 WEISS-Harriet M. (nee Spiro), on June 10, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Daniel A. Weiss, D.D.S. Devoted mother of Marla, Leta, and Darcy. Loving grandmother to Devon, Evan, Kendra, Aja, and Daniel. Caring sister to Charlotte Samuels. Dearest mother-in-law to Eric, Mark, and Martin. We cele
 ABNER-Ruth. Age 94 passed away peacefully on June 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Morris Abner, cherished mother of Alan and Howard. Adoring grandmother to Susan, Robert, David, Caryn and Leslie. Loving great grandmother of Marielle, Bailey, Harris, Stephanie, Tracy, Melissa and Eric. He
 COLLINS-Ann Ward. 94. Died at home peacefully on June 10, 2002 in the presence of her family, as she wished. Ann was a woman of great spirit, independence and compassion. Her joy of life was unwavering, as was her sense of humor, and she shared both freely. Know that she left life as she li
 MASS - Roslyn, 75. Died peacefully at home June 12, 2002, following a long illness. A brilliant, fascinating and powerful woman, she was a gifted professor of film and English at Baruch College of CUNY, a generous and loving friend, a caring sister, and a devoted and adored aunt, great aunt
 SILVER-Martha (Rubin). Of Belle Harbor, NY, died on June 11th, 2002. Beloved, devoted wife of the late Louis Silver. Loving, cherished mother of Stanley, Phyllis (Gerald Gelles), Robert and Martin (Dale). Adored, loving grandma Martha of David & Robin, Stuart & Carol, Steven & Caron, Richar
 TREVOR-Anne E. Lacy, 50, wife of John B. Trevor III and a widely-known Adirondack artist and illustrator, died June 9th at home in Lake Placid, NY after a long illness. The daughter of Elizabeth and the late F. Prentice Lacy of Durham, NC, she was born in Dalls, PA. She was a member of the 
 BERG-Frances G. On June 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Louis Berg. Devoted sister of Arthur Gottlieb. Cherished mother of Debby, Roger & Esme Berg. Loving grandmother of Jonathan, Louis-Alexandre and Juliette. Services were held on Wednesday, June 12th, 2002. She will be greatly missed.
 BRAND-Ina Barishaw. June 11, 2002. Widow of the late Joseph Brand. Survivors: son Peter, daughter Rena Sue, and brother Lee Barishaw. BRAND-Ina. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Ina Brand our deepest sympathies on the occas
 ISAACS-Helen. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Ken Simon, President       
 POLANYI-Alice. Age 90. Of Bolton, Mass. Died peacefully on June 9 after a valliant struggle. Beloved wife of Thomas G. Polanyi, treasured aunt of Ruth Danon of New York City and Livia Polanyi of Palo Alto, Calif. Also survived by her brother-inlaw Michael Polanyi and her grand-nephew Mishka
 POLL-Gertrud. June 12th, age 86. Cherished wife of the late Otto. This loving mother, Oma, relative, and friend will be deeply missed. Services at Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam, Friday, 11:15 AM. Donations in her memory can be made to the ADL, 825 UN Plaza, NY, NY 10017.       
 POST-Ruth. Age 81. Died at home peacefully on June 10, 2002 in the presence of her family, as she wished. Ruth was a woman of great spirit & independence. She was the beloved mother of Roberta and Eric, grandmother of Rebecca and Amy, and wife of the late Dr. Arthur Post. Private services w
 Elizabeth Mongan, an expert in fine-art prints and drawings who helped to create a major collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on June 7 at her home in Rockport, Mass. She was 92. From 1937 to 1963, Ms. Mongan was curator of the private print collection of Le
 BUIRSKI-Pearl, June 13 in FL. She was elegant, vibrant, generous and loyal. Loving wife of Fishie, devoted mother of Peter, most excellent mother-in-law of Cathy, dearest grandmother of Max and Diana, caring sister of Florence. She ''had a good innings'' but we'll always miss her. Funeral S
 LoFRISCO-Eleanor L. The LoFrisco family regrets to announce the death of our wife and mother on June 13, 2002. She will be deeply missed by her husband, Anthony LoFrisco of Wilton, CT; daughter, Louise LoFrisco of NY, NY; sons, Anthony Jr. of Great Falls, VA, Frank of Denver, CO, and Thomas
 SOLOMON-Holly. The Staff and Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art are saddened by the passing of Holly Solomon. Her spirit, vision, and passionate support for artists helped transform American art. Holly's legacy is lasting; she will be deeply missed by all who care about
 Phyllis Pray Bober, a scholar of Renaissance art and its relationship to classical antiquity, and a pioneering scholar in culinary history, died on May 30 at her home in Ardmore, Pa. She was 81. Ms. Bober, a professor emerita of the humanities at Bryn Mawr, was known for her unusual
 Zena Sutherland, the most prominent reviewer of American children's books for nearly three decades and the author of five editions of ''Children and Books,'' the classic textbook on the subject, died on June 12 in Chicago. She was 86. As the editor and reviewer of The Bulletin of th
 BOBER-Phyllis Pray. The College Art Association mourns the loss of its dear friend and colleague Phyllis Bober, Professor Emeritus at Bryn Mawr College and CAA President from 1988 to 1990. Her contributions to the field and her generous and loving nature will be long remembered. Michael Aur
 BUIRSKI-Pearl. With courage and dignity, our dear cousin has left us. Our love, shredded with tears, goes out to her beloved husband Physil, her children Dr. Peter and Cathy, her grandchildren Max and Diana, and her sister Florence. Koenigsberg, Shalleck and Zingman Families.       
 CLUETT-Eustis Lowry. Died on May 6 at her home in Sea Island, Georgia. She was born April 27, 1914 in Bryn Mawr, PA, daughter of Arthur and Isabel Sayres Lowry. She attended The Shipley School. She was the wife of William Scott Cluett who died in 1971. She is survived by three children, Wil
 DUBENSKY-Helena. June 14, 2002. Partner in life of Seymour for 57 years, beloved mother of Ken (and Gayle) and Joyce (and Philip). Grandmother of Joshua, Ravital, Laurence and Geremy. Sister of Gladys (deceased) and Leona (deceased). She created beauty in every way. We will miss you forever
 FELDER-Betty. The Board of Directors of the Girls' Vacation Fund deeply regrets the passing of one of their founding Board Members, Mrs. Thomas B. Felder. Mrs. Felder was an active Board member for over 50 years serving side by side with her daughter, Bettina Felder in her last years on our
 FORBES-Jean. June 13. Founding Member, former Director and Building Manager. We offer condolences to her husband Matty and all her family. 325 Cooperative Inc.       
 GEWIRTZ-Abraham J. (Jimmy), M.D., on June 9, 2002 at age 92. Cherished friend of Carole Newman and her children Jeffrey, William and Cynthia. Dear uncle of Barbara, Dolores, Morty, Michael, George, Bill, Mark, and cousin of Leonard. Interment private. Remembering Jimmy Tuesday, June 18, at 
 HORN-Ilene (nee Hoffenberg). Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Cherished mother of Miles Levy (Susan) and Lora Marin (Martin). Devoted grandmother of three and great grandmother of four. Caring friend, she is loved and will be missed.       
 ISAACS-Helen Salant. Born and raised in Manhattan and a resident of White Plains since 1957, died on June 13th in her home, at the age of 89. She was married to the late Myron S. Isaacs and is the mother of Stanley Isaacs of Palo Alto, CA; Jane I. Toussaint of Cambridge, MA; John Isaacs of 
 JENKINS-Julia Hodges. We are deeply saddened by the death of our beloved member. A winner in 1999 of our Distinguished Service Award, Judy was a mainstay of our club and a leading figure in the design world for decades. We will miss her terribly. Our deepest sympathies to her daughter, Huts
 KALAJAN - Naomi (nee Malkin). February 28, 1916 to May 17, 2002. Beloved cousin, mentor, best friend. Naomi embodied beauty, kindness and wisdom. She was talented as a pianist and dedicated as a public health administrator. Her long years of illness were endured with grace and dignity. She 
 KIRSCHNER-Roselyn. 78, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on June 13th, 2002 after a prolonged illness. She will always be remembered as a paragon of strength, grace, and love. She is survived by her adoring husband, Dr. Stephen A. Kirschner; loving children: Mitche
 KLAUSER - Madeline. On June 14, 2002. Beloved and cherished wife of Mark for 49 years. Loving aunt of Mel and Paul Meyer and Paul and Phyllis Landsberg. Devoted great aunt of Stacey and Wendy Meyer, Dara Britt, Rachel Love and Arieh and Gabriella Landsberg. Sisterin-law of Mae Klauser. Reti
 LoFRISCO-Eleanor L. The LoFrisco family regrets to announce the death of our wife and mother on June 13, 2002. She will be deeply missed by her husband, Anthony LoFrisco of Wilton, CT; daughter, Louise LoFrisco of NY, NY; sons, Anthony Jr. of Great Falls, VA, Frank of Denver, CO, and Thomas
 O'BYRNE-Mabel M. (nee Toro). On May 31, 2002 of Rutherford, NJ. Survived by husband Patrick, daughters Deborah and Patricia, granddaughter Olivia and son-inlaw Paul. Also survived by sister Carmen, niece Barbara, and Toro, Martinez, Seda and O'Byrne families. Born October 5, 1925 in NYC. A 
 PLOWS - Grace Marian Smith. With sadness at the loss, yet with thankfulness for the gift of 95 years of life, the family of Grace Marian Smith Plows announces her passing on June 13, 2002. Brooklyn born in 1907, she was an enthusiastic city resident for nine decades before moving to a Stamf
 RAY-Rosaline Muckenfuss. 99, died June 14, 2002, in Akron, Ohio. Formerly of New York City and Montrose, Pennsylvania. Beloved wife of the late Hasseltine Chafee Ray. She is survived by her daughters, Rosaline R. Mather of Akron, Ohio, and Adeline R. deButts of Upperville, Virginia, seven g
 SCHWARTZ-Pearl. Passed away on June 11th, 2002, at Arborview at Willow Valley in Lancaster, PA. She was the adored and adoring wife of the late Nathan, and cherished mother of Ilene and Gloria and son-in-law Robert.       
 STEBMAN-Betty. Beloved aunt and friend, passed away on May 24, 2002, in West Palm Beach, FL, at age 86. She helped organize the United Negro College Fund in NYC and was their first official fund raiser, retiring after serving as director of their New York campaign (1943-1969). She was Fund 
 TAMBURRO-Dr. Kathleen M. ''Kit''. A native of New York City, died peacefully on Monday, June 10th, at her home in Louisville, Kentucky. She was a Research Facilitator at the University of Louisville School of Medicine. A graduate of Marymount Manhattan College, she received her Ph.D in Micr
 TEVONIAN-Marie, 97, cherished mother of Stephanie, sister Anahid Iskian. Born Turkey, survivor Armenian genocide 1915. Graduated Barnard 1925. Commercial artist; Assistant City College Library. Oldest member Armenian Evangelical Church, NY. A resident of White Plains, she started the moveme
 WEISS-Harriet May. Beloved mother, grandmother, friend and New York Times Crossword Puzzle Goddess. She had a sweet tooth, a generous heart and the spirit of a warrior. Resilient, loving and beautiful, she was the best listener and will always be part of us.       
 CANTOR-Janet (Soforenko). Died at home on June 16th in her 102nd year. Born in Fall River, MA. She was a graduate of the Rhode Island School of Design. She was one of the first independent interior decorators in New York. Widow of her beloved Michael, adoring mother of Barbara and Myron Bau
 CARDOZO-Marion Bray. 73, of Westport, CT, wife of the late George H. Cardozo, died Thursday, June 13, in Norwalk Hospital. Mrs. Cardozo, daughter of the late William John and Leona Collins Bray, was born in Tampa, FL, and raised in Havana, Cuba. She has been a resident of Westport for the p
 COLLINS - Frances Fisher. Formerly of Millbrook, NY, died at Hartford, CT, June 15, 2002, age 94. Predeceased by her husband Hugh Gawtry Collins, she is survived by her daughter Anne Flagler Collins, M.D., her sons Dennis Gawtry Collins, Farnham Fisher Collins and Anthony Philip Collins, se
 DUNN-Linda. Died May 11, 2002, at the age of 60. Her lifelong work was her commitment to civic life and education. She died at home, surrounded by her family. She is survived by her sons Tom and Ian McGinnis. A memorial will be held at noon, June 22, at Riverside Church.       
 KLAUSER - Madeline. On June 14, 2002. Beloved and cherished wife of Mark for 49 years. Loving aunt of Mel and Paul Meyer and Paul and Phyllis Landsberg. Devoted great aunt of Stacey and Wendy Meyer, Dara Britt, Rachel Love and Arieh and Gabriella Landsberg. Sisterin-law of Mae Klauser. Reti
 KLIGLER - Evelyn. She served the fashion industury throughout her illustrious career. Your cherished Willi Wear and Boomclub family members and friends will miss your steadfast guidance and above all your beautiful friendship. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Boomclub Kligle
 LoFRISCO-Eleanor L. The LoFrisco family regrets to announce the death of our wife and mother on June 13, 2002. She will be deeply missed by her husband, Anthony LoFrisco of Wilton, CT; daughter, Louise LoFrisco of NY, NY; sons, Anthony Jr. of Great Falls, VA, Frank of Denver, CO, and Thomas
 SCHULTZ-Anita. Age 82, on June 14, 2002. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband Martin and dear sister Evelyn. Devoted sister to Mildred Morin (Eli) and Iris Fein. Loving aunt and great-aunt. Services Monday, June 17, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 UNTERMEYER-Sophie G. 92, of New York City, passed away Saturday, June 14, after a long illness. Aunt of Charles S. and Randolph Guggenheimer Jr., and sister-in-law of Elinor C. Guggenheimer. Daughter of the late Charles and Minnie Guggenheimer, sister of the late Randolph Guggenheimer. She 
 June Jordan, who came of age as a poet when the voices of black female writers were just beginning to be heard, died on June 14 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 65. The cause was breast cancer, which she fought for a decade, said Adrienne Torff, a friend. Like the car
 BENVENISTE-Sylvia. Age 81, on June 16, 2002, after complications from a stroke. Beloved mother of Richard; grandmother of Jonathan, Danielle, Elizabeth and Olivia; cherished mother-in-law of Donna Grell. Preceded in death by her husband, Isaac; daughter, Lorraine; brothers, Milton, Paul and
 COLLINS - Frances Fisher. Formerly of Millbrook, NY, died at Hartford, CT, June 15, 2002, age 94. Predeceased by her husband Hugh Gawtry Collins, she is survived by her daughter Anne Flagler Collins, M.D., her sons Dennis Gawtry Collins, Farnham Fisher Collins and Anthony Philip Collins, se
 GROSSMAN - Charlotte E. Heimberg of York PA, died suddenly on June 12 in NYC. The wife of the late Jack Grossman, she is survived by beloved daughters Leslie Abrams of Dobbs Ferry, NY and Beth Grossman of NYC and devoted son Howard Grossman of Weston CT, three grandchildren, Sara and Joshua
 KUSCHNER-Kathryn. Age 83. Passed away on June 14, 2002. Beloved wife of Marvin. Loving mother of Jason and mother-in-law of Andrea. Devoted grandmother and good friend of Zack and Cy. She was a kind, gracious, and caring person who touched many peoples lives. We will miss her very much.    
 SELDON-Dorothy, of Tamarac, FL, on June 16, 2002. Devoted wife of 59 years to her husband Bernard. Loving mother of Terry and Richard and mother-in-law of Mindy, and devoted grandmother of Amanda, Adam, and Corey.       
 SMALLBERG - Dorothy (Lanzoff), born and raised in New York, February 14, 1907, passed away on June 15 in her home in North Miami Beach at age 95. Longtime resident of Brooklyn. She was married to the late Joseph and is survived by her children, Joan Coe of Connecticut and Leonard Smallberg 
 UNTERMEYER-Sophie G. 92, of New York City, passed away Saturday, June 15, after a long illness. Aunt of Charles S. and Randolph Guggenheimer Jr., and sister-in-law of Elinor C. Guggenheimer. Daughter of the late Charles and Minnie Guggenheimer, sister of the late Randolph Guggenheimer. She 
 WINKLEVOSS-Amanda Gesine. Age 23. Beloved daughter, loving sister, cherished niece and cousin, dearest friend, died in an accident on June 14 in New York City. Born May 23, 1979, she is survived by her parents, Carol and Howard Winklevoss; brothers Cameron and Tyler, all of Greenwich, Ct. a
 Irène Lidova, a dance critic and producer who played a major role in founding creative ballet companies in postwar France, died on May 23 in Paris. She was 95 and lived in Paris. Roland Petit, one of the world's major choreographers, was an unknown dancer chafing under the strictur
 JORDAN-June. This week June Jordan, lifelong activist, poet, writer and member of MADRE's founding Board of Directors, died. With her passing, the volume of passion in the world is diminished. In June's memory, we rededicate our own passion to building the world we dream. Staff and Board of
 NATHAN-Ida Barkin. Age 89, formerly of New York City, died at home June 17th in Chapala, Jalisco, Mexico. Beloved wife of Arthur for 65 years. Cherished mother of Carol Nathan Greenfield Leek and Toby Nathan, mother-in-law of Frank Leek and Robert Morin. May she rest in peace.       
 WALKER-Lillian. 92. Died in Palm Beach, FL, on June 16, 2002. She is survived by her loving children Carol and Kenneth, her sister Sydel, son-in-law David, daughterin-law Mary, grandchildren Andrew & Cheryle, Doug & Elena, and her great-grandchildren Sarah, Brian, Peter and Michael. God spe
 BYNUM - Sadie C. Born March 13, 1927, died June 11, 2002. She was a 34 year NYC teacher/administrator. Sadie educated many students in her 34 years as a teacher and administrator. She was a part of the Rothchild/Reynold's Junior HS in Brooklyn, NY.       
 FAYSON-Viola M. Born July 26, 1946 in White Castle, LA, died June 7, 2002 at St. Luke's Hospital in NY. Survived by her companion Herman Bryant, daughter Bonnie Slater, stepmother Edna L. Bell, 5 brothers: Raymond Lewis, Lloyd Jr., Gregory, Eric, and Frank, three sisters: Vonola Avist, Kath
 GLADSTONE-Anna Rosenzweig. Our beloved older sister Anna died June 17, 2002 in California. The first born of five daughters of our beloved late parents Jennie and Willie Rosenzweig. She leaves her 4 adoring Rosenzweig sisters, who mourn her passing; Blanche Golub, Ruthe Kahn, Miriam Nitzber
 LEYLAND - TURKEN - Ceri Ann. Fifty-two. June 19, 2002. Beloved wife of her late husband, Stanley Turken. Devoted stepmother of her loving children, Greta and Jason. Cherished sister of her brothers, John and Rex. Adoring aunt to her nieces, Tamsin and Chelsea. Dedicated and loving relative 
 RICKLIN-Mary. Age 94. Wife of the late Abraham Ricklin M.D. Passed away Tuesday, June 18. She is survived by her daughters Cynthia Harmening, (Wayne) and Jane Fassler (James). Grandma to Seth and Theresa Harmening, Amy and Gary Ehrlich and Lee and Elizabeth Fassler. G.G. will be missed by h
 WALKER-Lillian. Long-time member of NCJW-NY section; Lillian was a dynamic member of the Junior Committee and will be sadly missed. We grieve with her devoted family. Rita Fishman, President       
 Maia Wojciechowska, an award-winning author of children's books, died on June 13 in Long Branch, N.J. She was 74. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Oriana Rodman. Ms. Wojciechowska wrote 19 books, the best-known of which is ''Shadow of a Bull'' (1964), about a young 
 SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound saddness the death of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, Vice Chair of the Board of Governors a
 Sophie G. Untermeyer, a longtime supporter and key staff member of the New York Philharmonic and a noted sportswoman, died on Saturday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. She was 92 and had lived on the Upper East Side. She was on the Philharmonic's board of directors from
 BERNSTEIN-Betty J. On June 20, 2002. Beloved sister of Morry, Seymour and Pearl. Survived by her brother Ira and sister Hilda, devoted nieces, nephews and cousins. Services Sunday, June 23, 2002, 11 AM, at The Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 BRISKIE-Bess. The residents of Round Dune, E. Quogue, NY, are saddened by her passing. Our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Gale Spitalnik, President       
 HAGEL-Ruth F. 84, died June 12, in Boca Raton, FL, after a long illness. She was born December 3, 1917, in New York City, daughter of the late Jennie and Leo Block. She graduated from Walton High School in the Bronx, and summa cum laude from New York University's School of Commerce. She lat
 SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The New York University Community mourns the passing of Audrey Skirball-Kenis. Mrs. Skirball-Kenis was a warm, generous, witty and charming women whose philanthropy helped immeasurably in so many causes and was indispensable in the growth of NYU. Her extraordinary
 Eppie Lederer, who as the syndicated columnist Ann Landers was widely considered responsible for bringing the advice column into the modern era, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said. M
 BERNSTEIN-Betty J. On June 20, 2002. Beloved sister of Morry, Seymour and Pearl. Survived by her brother Ira and sister Hilda, devoted nieces, nephews and cousins. Services today, June 23, 2002, 11 AM, at The Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, corner 91 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 FISCHER-Robert C. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the death of Robert Fischer, the husband of our dear friend and colleague Diane. Our heartfelt condolences to Diane, daughter Alison, son Bradley, sister Carol Murray, mother Dorothy. Stua
 GLEITMAN-Helen. On June 20, 2002, at age 75, after a long illness. A Holocaust survivor, she went on to lead a successful life as a wife, mother and businesswoman. She lived her life with passion, dedication and courage. Helen leaves behind two loving daughters, Barbara and Frances, and dea
 GOLDFRANK - Helen. 89, died in Washington, DC, on June 21, 2002. She was an author of 35 books. She was most proud of her book ''Picasso's World of Children.'' Beloved wife of the late Herbert John Goldfrank. She is survived by her son Lewis, and daughter-in-law Susan, her daughter Joan, an
 HASKELL-Mary Delafield Finch. 87, beloved wife of the late Col. Francis W. Hask ell, died at her home in McLean, Virginia on Thursday, June 20. Called ''Noelle'' because she was born on Christmas Day, 1914, she was a graduate of the Nightingale-Bamford School in New York City and member of 
 JACOBI-Anne Singer. Peacefully, on June 18, 2002. Mother of Dr. Judith Levine and Herbert Jacobi. Grandmother of Stephen and Barry Levine, Genevieve Jacobi-Haakonsen, Diane Stark, Adam and David Jacobi. Great-grandmother of Alexander Haakonsen, Vivian Jacobi and Maxwell Levine. May she rest
 JARMEL-Roslyn. 74, of Summerlin, NV, formerly of Merrick, NY, on Tuesday, June 18, 2002. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Mark, Todd (deceased), and Ellin. She was the kindness, most loving and generous soul, and she will be missed more than words can ever begin to describe. In lie
 LIPSKY-Ann (nee Seymour). A long time resident of New York City, Ann Lipsky died on June 19, 2002, at her home in Fairfax, VA. She was the wife of the late Charles David Lipsky; mother of Ruth Hoffman, Jane McIntyre, Barbara Lipsky and Alan Lipsky; mother-in-law of Patrick Herbst and AJ Rho
 MINER - Mary Elizabeth. Died June 9, 2002 in Charlotte, VT. She was born on June 3, 1924 in Plainfield, NJ.       
 RIDDER-Georgia Buck. Widow of newspaper publisher B.J. ''Ben'' Ridder and who continued their large stable of thoroughbreds after her husband's death, winning dozens of important horse races including the 1996 Breeders' Cup Classic, died June 14, at her home in Pasadena, CA. She was 87. For
 SACKSMAN-Gretel. On June 11. She was born Gretel Weiss in Mannheim, Germany. She came to America October 1938 and she is survived by her husband Stanley. Comforted by fond memories of their 48 years together.       
 SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The Board of Trustees, staff, docents, and volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center express our deepest sorrow upon the death of our beloved friend and founding Trustee, Audrey Skirball-Kenis. With astounding verve and imagination, she made a difference in life 
 STAMPER-Emily F. 40. Of Mill Valley, CA. On June 19, 2002. Beloved wife of Stuart Fishman. Cherished daughter of Sally and Eugene Stamper. Irreplaceable sister of Marcy Stamper. A memorial service will be held on June 30 in Tiberon, CA. Another service will be held on the East Coast at a fu
 STEBMAN-Betty J. The staff and board of the Natural Resources Defense Council mourn the passing of a wise guide and loyal friend. Betty was our fundraising advisor in the early days of NRDC and working with Harold Oram and Associates put NRDC on the path which allowed us to grow and prosper
 HINES-Dr. Joyce Rose. In loving memory of our darling sister on her birthday. Mike and Jane Hines Reis       
 Eppie Lederer, who as the syndicated columnist Ann Landers was widely considered responsible for bringing the advice column into the modern era, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said.        
 GIRARDI-Patricia Sears. 80. Beloved wife of Bill and mother of Grad, John, Nancy and Jay, passed away on June 23, 2002, after an extended illness. A longtime resident of Katonah, NY, she was active in many community organizations including the Herb Society and volunteering at Kitchawan Rese
 KOCH-Gladys. 84, renowned antique dealer and collector, died peacefully at her home. She is survived by her husband of 59 years, Robert Koch, a son and daughter, and four grandchildren.       
 MARGARITOV-Kathy Haber. On June 22, 2002, in White Plains, NY, after a lengthy illness. Former Vice President Network Relations, American Home Products (Wyeth). Loving wife of Stephen, mother of Deborah and Richard, daughter of Richard L. and the late Jane Haber, sister of Thomas R. and Joh
 TANNENBAUM - Leah Lo uise Baach. 87, of 2904 Wynnewood Dr. in Greensboro, died June 21, 2002. She is survived by her children, Jeanne Tannenbaum of Greensboro; Susan Tannenbaum of Washington, DC; Nancy Tannenbaum of Chapel Hill; and Dr. Sigmund Tannenbaum of Greensboro; grandchildren, Amie,
 CITRIN-Estelle Claire. After Hillary died I knew you would not be with us for long. Having children of my own now, I now understand why you had to go and be with her. Although your grandsons Ethan and Hunter have never met you, they are each filled with your spirit, your love of life, your 
 BEHRENS-Rhoda S. Age 81 of Monroe Twp. died Sunday June 23, 2002 at home. Born in the Bronx, NY she lived in Westchester, NY for 25 years before moving to Monroe Twp. 15 years ago. Mrs. Behrens was a member of B'nai Brith, the Council of Jewish Woman, the Jewish Congregation, all of Concord
 FREEMAN-Lizabeth Henryson. June 22, 2002, beloved wife of Donald, mother of Adam and Leslie. A consummate teacher who lit a thousand minds, an inspiration to students, teachers, family and friends. A Scholarship Fund will be established in her memory at Fox Lane High School in Bedford, NY. 
 GIRARDI-Patricia Sears. 80. Beloved wife of Bill and mother of Grad, John, Nancy and Jay, passed away on June 23, 2002, after an extended illness. A longtime resident of Katonah, NY, she was active in many community organizations including the Herb Society and volunteering at Kitchawan Rese
 LANIGAN-Frances Olmsted. Beloved wife of the late John B. Lanigan, died on June 23, 2002, in Exeter, New Hampshire. She was a graduate of Vassar College and was an active volunteer in Irvington, New York, where she lived from 1948 to 1995. Mrs. Lanigan is survived by her three children, Tim
 BARRON-Carolyn. The partners, associates and staff of Silverberg Stonehill & Goldsmith, P.C. extend their condolences to Liz Goldsmith and her family on the loss of her beloved mother.       
 BERGLAS-Alice (nee Pollak). On June 25, 2002. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Bernard. Daughter of Salo and Frieda Feigenbaum Pollak. Loving mother of the late Robert and of Peter. Dear mother-in-law of Alice Katz Berglas. Adoring grandmother of Nancy, and caring Lisl to Benjamin. Serv
 GREENBERG-Shirley (nee Levine), of East Meadow, N.Y. Beloved wife of Leon for 53 years. Loving mother of Edward and Richard. Devoted sister to Ruth Ciline. Adored grandmother of Jonathan. Great friend and cherished mother-in-law of Janet. She will be remembered for her loving kindness, grea
 JOHNSON - Elizabeth Taft. Died on June 19 in Delray Beach. She was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Walbridge S. Taft of New York. She leaves a daughter, Libby Lourie of Seattle; a sister, Lucie Bard of Locust Valley; and a step-son, David Johnson of New York. She was also a sister of the late 
 ROTHSCHILD - Jean (nee Kattelson). Beloved wife of the late Manny. ''MomMom'', to all who knew and loved her. Daughter Judy, son Alan, grandchildren Jennifer and Chris Singleton, Joanna Rothschild, Jonny Rothschild, daughter-in-law Ilene Rothschild. Service today 12 noon at Riverside, 21 We
 ZIMMERMAN-Muriel. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research (IPTAR) mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Muriel Zimmerman. Muriel made many contributions to the IPTAR community during her career. She served on our faculty, and was a training analyst and sup
 KESSLEROHEN - Estelle/d. Born in 1909, died in New York City on June 25, 2002. She married Louis M. Cohen, a lawyer, and textile manufacturer and founding member of the United Jewish Appeal. They had two daughters Hannah and Sandra. When Louis died Estelle continued to work closely with the
 Nellie Monk, who as the wife of the jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk was the prime supporter and muse of a troubled genius, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 80. She had had a cerebral hemorrhage, said Gale Monk, her daughter-in-law. Of al
 BERGLAS-Alice (nee Pollak). On June 25, 2002. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Bernard. Daughter of Salo and Frieda Feigenbaum Pollak. Loving mother of the late Robert and of Peter. Dear mother-in-law of Alice Katz Berglas. Adoring grandmother of Nancy, and caring Lisl to Benjamin. Cont
 CASTELLE-Cynthia. Of Suffern. Died on June 25, 2002. She is survived by her loving family, children Michael & Melanie; Andrew & Karin; Gary and Tari; and three grandchildren, Matthew, James & Cooper. Predeceased by her husband Robert in 2000. Services Friday, June 28, 2002 11 AM at the Wana
 DAVIS-Julia. On behalf of the members of 1199SEIU, New York's Health & Human Service Union, AFL-CIO, we mourn the death on June 15 in Lake Worth, Florida, of Julia Davis. Julia, was 94, was the widow of our Union's founder, Leon Davis, who retired as President in 1982 and died in 1992. She 
 FORD - Katherine Murray. On June 22, 2002 at her home in Manhattan. A generoushearted woman blessed with intelligence and wit, Ms. Ford illuminated the lives of all who knew her.       
 GREENBERG-Shirley (nee Levine). Of East Meadow, N.Y. Beloved wife of Leon for 53 years. Loving mother of Edward & Richard. Devoted sister to Ruth Ciline. Adored grandmother of Jonathan. Great friend and cherished mother-in-law of Janet. She will be remembered for her loving kindness, great 
 KAPLAN-Myra F. Devoted mother of Roger and Isabelle. Wife of the late Herbert Kaplan. Sister of Judith Davilman and the late Mary-Ellen Feinberg. Sister-in-law of Dr. Harvey Feinberg. Loving aunt of Monica Cohen and Jessica Lesnik. She will be missed every moment of every day. Services Frid
 MEISEL-Rebecca A., on June 24, 2002. Beloved wife of Irving S. Meisel. Beloved mother of Perry Meisel. Sister of Bessie Schwarz of Houston, TX, and Leon Abramson of Shreveport, LA. Rebecca, affectionately known as Becky, will be deeply missed. She will be remembered by her many friends and 
 REID-Gertrude. Born March, 29, 1914 in New York City, died peacefully on June 26, 2002 in her sleep at St. Joseph's nursing home in New Jersey. She held an important position with the NY School of Design, retiring in 1985. An excellent singer and voice teacher, she belonged to the NY Singin
 ROSENSTEIN-Phyllis. The Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband, Harold, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 KESSLEROHEN - Estelle/d. Born in 1909, died in New York City on June 24, 2002. She married Louis M. Cohen, a lawyer, and textile manufacturer and founding member of the United Jewish Appeal. They had two daughters Hannah and Sandra. When Louis died Estelle continued to work closely with the
 BARAF-Jeri Lynn. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Joshua and Laura. Daughter of Ann Colby. Services today 12 noon at Parkside Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills, NY. BARAF-Jeri. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passin
 BENJAMIN - Eileen. The Board of Directors and tenants of 1155 Park Avenue mourn the loss of our friend, neighbor and longtime resident, Eileen ''Nicky'' Benjamin. While serving on the Board for many years, Nicky was held in high regard for her intelligence and constructive suggestions. Alwa
 EITINGON-Mary. Peacefully at home in NYC on June 27, 2002. Widow of Leon. Devoted mother of Carol Schneider and Daniel, and mother-inlaw of Carole. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Douglas and Eric Schneider and grandmother-in-law of Sara. Services today, Friday, 12 Noon, at Frank E. Campbell,
 HEFFNER-Marilyn Jeanne Hood, 75. Of Irvington, New York, on June 24, 2002. Dearly cherished wife of Lee and beloved mother of Kristen, Lincoln & Amy. Grandmother of Claire, David, Melissa, Jesse, Kelby and Tanner and mother-in-law of Patty and Bill. We celebrate her life and the joy, love a
 HIXON-Augusta, 96. Passed away peacefully in her sleep in Bethesda, MD, on June 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Harry Hixon, adored mother of Philip (Lee) Hixon of Palm Springs, CA, dear sister of Laura Hart, and the late George J. Talianoff, Rose Ambinder and David Talley, caring sister
 KAPLAN-Myra F. Devoted mother of Roger and Isabelle. Wife of the late Herbert Kaplan. Sister of Judith Davilman and the late Mary-Ellen Feinberg. Sister-in-law of Dr. Harvey Feinberg. Loving aunt of Monica Cohen and Jessica Lesnik. She will be missed every moment of every day. Services Frid
 KURZ-Miriam. Beloved wife of Max, dear mother of Ester and Peter, loving mother-inlaw of John and Ronit, and proud grandmother of Maya, Amit, David, Adi and Matthew. We will miss her gentle soul, loving and caring spirit, and her devotion to family and friends. Services today, 11:30AM, at R
 SPEIER-Claire. Born New York City. Age 70. Graduate of New York University. Modern dancer with the Charles Weidman Dance Company. Married 1954 to Leonard Speier, had two children (divorced 1979). Survived by sons Andrew and Matthew. Career as dance teacher at John F. Kennedy High School unt
 FELSEN-Esther. June 3, 1921 -June 28, 1998. Remembered, missed and loved every day. Her Loving Famil       
 KESSLEROHEN - Estelle/d. Born in 1909, died in New York City on June 24, 2002. She married Louis M. Cohen, a lawyer, and textile manufacturer and founding member of the United Jewish Appeal. They had two daughters Hannah and Sandra. She later married Henry H. Kessler, founder of the Kessler
 Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 78. The cause was a heart attack, her lawyer, Martin D. Newman, said.    
 MILLER-Lillian Last. Lillian Miller of Haverstraw, NY died on June 28, 2002. She was ninety-seven. She is survived by her loving sons Daniel Miller, Esq. and Dr. Joshua Miller; devoted sister Mollie Levine and their families. For further information, please call the Hellman Memorial Chapels
 BROWN-Gladys. On June 26, 2002. Beloved wife of Murray, sister of Shirley and Lorraine and her husband John, sisterin-law of Vicki, dear friend of Doris Goldstein and Carol Howell. Visiting Sunday, 7-9 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Graveside service Monday, 2PM, at A
 EBEL-Rose D. 87, of Yonkers, NY. She entered into rest peacefully on June 29, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Alfred Ebel. Loving mother of Judith Ebel Tsipis and Deborah Ebel. Proud grandmother of Andreas Jeremy Tsipis, Jessica Morrow Young, Yanni Kosta Tsipis, David Howell Young. She w
 JONES-Gloria M. (Morkan). On June 28, 2002. She was 78. Beloved wife of the late William J. Loving mother of Chris, Bartley and Faith. Cherished grandmother of four. Adored sister of Br. Patrick Morkan. Reposing Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway, NYC, Sunday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mas
 LAUDER-Jessie (nee Jessie Cook) of Danville, Kentucky, died peacefully Tuesday night, June 25, in Palm Beach, FL, a month before her 93rd birthday. She is survived by her daughter, Barbara Bedford Mathieu of Southampton, New York; a son; five grandchildren; and five great grandchildren. She
 PUTNAM-Nancy King. 78, of Skidaway Island, Savannah, GA, on June 21 at home. She is survived by her husband Charles S. Putnam, her brother John S. King, two sons and four grandchildren.       
 ROSENBAUM-Anna. Peacefully, at home in Florida on June 22, 2002. She will be missed. Contributions in her memory to Hadassah.       
 SARLAT - Eleanor, joined husband Noah. Survived by daughters Laurie Coe and Ivy Kircher (Gary), grandchildren River, Reuben, Wren and Shaun, great-grandchildren Jacob and Noah. Her spirit and presence will be missed.       
 VASTESAEGER-Maria R., M.D., passed away at the age of 55 at her home in Scotch Plains, New Jersey, on June 28, 2002. Beloved wife of Dr. Balendu Vasavada and cherished mother of Jasmine, Natasha, and Zubin, Mia is also survived by her parents, Lodewyk Vastesaeger and Bertha Martens of Leuve
 Rosemary Clooney, whose warm, radiant voice placed her in the first rank of American popular singers for more than half a century, died last night at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Linda Dozoretz.   
