 Betty Miller, who played major roles on New York stages in a 60-year career, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Greenwich Village. Her death came after a long illness, said her friend and colleague Jennifer Harmon. Miss Miller was als
 Muriel Mallin Berman, a Pennsylvania arts patron and philanthropist, died on April 13 at her home in Allentown, Pa. She was 89. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Berman, an optometrist by profession, and her husband, Philip, were benefactors of the Philadelphia Mus
 Winson Hudson, a civil rights campaigner in rural Mississippi who flaunted her contempt for Ku Klux Klan intimidation by wearing a bright red dress the many times she marched up to the courthouse to try to register to vote, died on April 24. She was 87. Her grandson Kempton Horton s
 Sarah Betsy Fuller, an advocate for prisoners' rights who also helped law students prepare real cases, died on April 21 in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 58. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Ronald, said. She lived in Brooktondale, N.Y. Ms. Fuller was a lawyer for Prisoners' 
 Virginia Capers, an actress and singer who won a Tony Award in 1974 for her role in ''Raisin,'' the musical version of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles. She was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. She died after a bout of pneumonia, said her son, Glenn Capers.      
 Dorothy Van Engle, a 1930's star of several films of the pioneer black filmmaker Oscar Micheaux, died here on Monday, her family said. She was 87 and had recently moved to Ocala from her longtime home in Port Charlotte, Fla. Known for her beauty and cool sophistication, Ms. Van Engl
 Rita R. Fraad, a collector and patron of American art, died on Sunday at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 88. The cause was cardiac arrest, said her daughter Sara F. Henderson. Starting in the late 1940's, Mrs. Fraad assembled a noted private collection of 19th- and 20th-
 Lygia Pape, an influential Brazilian artist who worked in two important movements, Concretism and the looser Neo-Concretism, and later moved beyond them, died on May 3 in Rio de Janeiro. She was 77. The cause was complications of myelodysplasia, a blood disease, said her daughter Pa
 Brenda Fassie, the wild child of South African pop who was beloved as the piercing siren of the dispossessed under apartheid, died on May 9. She was 39. Family members said that her death stemmed from an April 26 asthma attack at home that led to heart failure and brain damage. She 
 June Taylor, the Emmy-winning choreographer whose routines on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' brought the chorus line into the television age, died on Sunday at a hospital in Miami, said her sister, Marilyn Gleason. She was 86 and lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Each week ''The Jackie Gl
 Carolyn Lelyveld, who directed a pioneering Bronx day care center for children with AIDS from the poorest neighborhoods and founded programs for children with cancer in hospitals in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 64 and lived 
 Kamala Markandaya, the novelist who helped forge the image of India for American readers in schools and book clubs from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on May 16 at her home in London. She was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said Kim Oliver, her daughter and only immediate sur
