 Muriel Topaz, the former director of the Dance Notation Bureau and the dance division of the Juilliard School, and an authority on the choreography of Antony Tudor, died on Monday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 70 and lived in Milford, Conn. The cause was liver dise
 MACGREGOR - Virginia Wyckoff, formerly Virginia Wyckoff Gregg, a longtime resident of Darien, CT, passed away on March 28th in New Canaan, CT. She was born in New York City on November 17, 1908; she grew up there and in South Salem, New York. She graduated from the Brearley School and Benne
 MASS-Elaine (nee Schorr). Her heartbroken family announces her death which occurred on Saturday, April 26, 2003. She cherished the family she leaves: Daniel and Helaine Mass, Larry and Terry Mass, her grandchildren Howard, Brad, Stefanie, Erik, and her sister June Weintraub. Rest in peace. 
 ROMM-Rita W., of Albany, NY, died April 28, 2003. Loving mother and best friend to her daughter, Judy Krakower, and husband, Stephen. Devoted sister to Sylvia Alpert. Adored grandmother to Naomi, Jon and Ben. Cherished aunt to Jay Romm, Marsha Starsman, Carol Alpert and Ellen Alpert. Rememb
 TOPAZ-Muriel. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Muriel Topaz, alumna of the Dance Division, member of its faculty from 1959 to 1970, and its director from 1985 to 1992. Her caring personality and dedication to the art of dance will be deeply missed by us all. Bruce Kovner, Chairman
 GABBAY-Stephie. On April 30, 2003. Devoted wife of Joseph Gabbay. Mother of three children, seven grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. She will be greatly missed.       
 HULTON-Jane. On April 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Adam Hulton. Loving mother of Cam, Stephanie and Blethyn. Cherished grandmother of Colin, Rick and Philippa. She will be deeply missed by her large and loving family. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Tuf
 HUPPER - Dorothy Healy. Died peacefully on April 25, 2003 at her home in NYC, in her 104th year. Wife of the late Roscoe H. Hupper, a longtime leading admiralty lawyer and senior partner of the Burlingham, Hupper & Kennedy firm. Mother of John R. Hupper of NYC, Roger W. Hupper of Tampa, FL 
 LEVINE-Stephanie. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Stephanie Levine and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband George, her sons Eric and Kenneth, daughter Cari and their family. Russell Leavitt, President 
 PULLES-Alice. We mourn the death of Alice Pulles on April 24, 2003 at age 80. Born in Puerto Rico, she came to the West Side of New York in 1941. She was the first person hired as a community worker by Project FIND in 1967 to seek out and document the plight of the aged in the Clinton neigh
 TOPAZ-Muriel. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Muriel Topaz, alumna of the Dance Division, member of its faculty from 1959 to 1970, and its director from 1985 to 1992. Her caring personality and dedication to the art of dance will be deeply missed by us all. Bruce Kovner, Chairman
 WILKE-Viola H., beloved wife of the late Robert E. Wilke, mother of loving daughters, Karen Galvin and Pinks London, grandmother of six and great-grandmother of ten, died peacefully on April 29, 2003. A beautiful and gracious woman all of her life, she will be greatly missed by her family. 
 Ella King Torrey, former president of the San Francisco Art Institute and an innovative arts administrator, died Wednesday at her home in San Francisco. She was 45. Her family did not disclose the cause of death. Ms. Torrey, who was called by both her first and middle names,
 FISCHER-Bernice. We join the family of Bernice Fischer in mourning her passing. With the help and support of her devoted family, Bernice Fischer faced her illness with dignity and courage. We extend our deepest sympathies to Bernice's husband, Donald, their children, Jill Wallen and Mark Fi
 GOODMAN-Bernice E., 75, died April 26, survived by her partner Hil Van Gogh, sister Rosemarie Tapfar, brother Harrison Goodman and many loving, grief-stricken friends.       
 KAMEN - Helen C. (nee Whitehorn). Born July 29th, 1917. On May 2nd she quietly died. Daughter of Liba and Leib, she departed at age 85. A loving mother, grandmother, and wife. We shall mourn her death and celebrate her life. Beloved wife of Saul. Loving mother of Paul, Michael, Leonard, and
 SCHNECK-Muriel J. On May 2, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Herman Schneck. She will be sorely missed by her family and friends. Service Tuesday, May 6th, 10AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 TOMPKINS-Sue Anne, 65, of New York City. Died May 1 in Vero Beach. Fl. She had been Personnel Manager at Price Waterhouse & Coopers in NYC and a member of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Memorials to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital.       
 COOLIDGE-Mary W. Of Cambridge, MA, died April 27, 2003, age 91. Daughter of Ralph W. and Mary B. Welch. Wife of the late John P. Coolidge, former Director of Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum. She is survived by a daughter, Mary C. Cost, two grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. Memo
 FISCHER-Bernice. We join the family of Bernice Fischer in mourning her passing. With the help and support of her devoted family, Bernice Fischer faced her illness with dignity and courage. We extend our deepest sympathies to Bernice's husband, Donald, their children, Jill Wallen and Mark Fi
 GOODAVAGE-Evelyn. A radiant beacon of joy, laughter and love. Adored by all who knew her. Worked with United Artists V.P. Max Youngstein for many years during the Golden Age of Hollywood. Left N.Y. for 12 years of country life and raising her children in Maine, then brought her elegance and
 GOTTFRIED-Judith. In TelAviv, Israel. Daughter of Lea and the late Armin Gottlieb, founders of Gottex. Sister of Miriam (Steve) Ruzow. Mother of Sharon, Donna and Tal. Loving grandmother of Or, and loving aunt of Liora, Elyse, Danny and Limor. On Friday, May 2. Judith quietly passed away af
 GREENBERG - Joan. Died May 1, 2003. Her husband Irwin, children Cliff, Jimmy, and Alana, daughters-in-law Beth and Claudia and grandchildren Emily, Jonathan, Cameron, Tomas and Joanna love her passionately. She was the most incredible wife, mother and friend. She made everybody happy. Her b
 GREENBERG-Rita. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the passing of their senior member, Rita Greenberg, and offer our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Ruth Austern; her grandchildren, Lynne and Bruce; and the Greenberg and Austern families. Alpine
 HUGGINS-Barbara Merrill. Died of natural causes on Wednesday evening, in her home in Waitsfield, VT. Barbara was born in NYC in 1931, to Oliver B. Merrill Jr. and Laura P. Merrill. She attended the Brearley School and graduated from the Shipley School. She received a bachelor of arts from S
 HULTON-Jane. On April 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Adam Hulton. Loving mother of Cam, Stephanie and Blethyn. Cherished grandmother of Colin, Rick and Philippa. She will be deeply missed by her large and loving family. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Tuf
 MILLER - Barbara Lewin. President of Astral Crystal. Wife of Charles Lewin and John Miller. Survived by her son Josh Lewin & daughter Lisa Lewin Conway & grandchildren Rachel & Rebecca Lewin & Jeremy Conway.       
 SCHNECK-Muriel J. On May 2, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Herman Schneck. She will be sorely missed by her family and friends. Service Tuesday, May 6th, 10AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SCHREIBER-Stacey Kaplan. Age 39. On April 28, 2003, after a courageous battle with cancer. Graduate of Emory and formerly a Vice President at Citibank. Beloved wife of Gary. Precious mom to Brooke and Matthew. Dear daughter of Dr. Philip Kaplan and the late Arlyne. Loving sister of Jaclyn M
 WEILLER - Kathryn Brick ner, lovingly known as Babe, peacefully passed away in her sleep on May 1, at the age of 96. Babe lived life to its fullest and will be remembered for a lifetime of dedicated service to her community, exemplified by being honored by President Bush as the 998th Point 
 WOLF - Marcia. Age 49, passed away on April 29, 2003. Daughter of Eleanor and Marvin Wolf, sister of Barbara and Robert. The heart that loved so many and was beloved by all, tragically, was that which claimed her life. Today and every day, you are in our hearts and minds. Your Loving Family
 PITMAN-Adriane Kleban. A free spirit with a zest for life, she is missed.       
 WEINTRAUB-Rose. April 30, 2000. Lovingly remembered by her family. Jane, Jerry, Linda, Mel, Grandchildren and Great-grandchildren       
 BIRNBAUM-Muriel. Beloved widow of the late Harris Birnbaum and loving and wonderful mother to Rick and Janet Birnbaum, and Barry and Ellen Birnbaum. Proud grandmother of Ron, Alice and Charles Birnbaum. Maternal and nurturing aunt to Tully and Beverly Safian, Sara Ann and Stan Wallerstein, 
 CORRIGAN-Joan. On May 3, 2003. Beloved wife of Edward, from Briarcliff Manor, NY. Legal secretary for 33 years, most recently with Bartlett, McDonough, Bastone & Monaghan, formerly with Bower & Gardner and Martin Clearwater and Bell. She will be sorely missed. Contributions to American Canc
 OKA-Gertrude (nee Heller). Of Miami Beach, FL, died at home on May 3rd. Beloved wife of the late Judge Kenneth Oka, former Mayor of Miami Beach. Born in NYC, graduate of Hunter College. An accomplished linguist, Gertrude moved to Miami Beach in 1938 to teach Latin at the Lear School. As Fir
 PIZITZ - STRELZOFF - Fran ces, M.D. Age 103. Died Friday, May 2, 2003. Dr. Pizitz was born in Russia, received her medical training and license in Berlin, came to the US during WWII. She earned another license to practice in America as a pediatrician. This was followed by training and licen
 SCHLANSKY - Helen (nee Walder). On May 4. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Schlansky. Loving mother of Mitchell and Mark Schlansky and Barbara Schaffer. Dear sister of Mildred Greenfield and the late Mel Walder. Adoring grandmother to Dana, David and Jeffrey Schlansky, Michael and Jordan Sc
 Sue Sally Hale, who broke American polo's sex barrier in 1972 when she gained membership in the sport's national governing body after playing matches disguised as a man for two decades, died last Tuesday at her ranch in Coachella, Calif. She was 65. The cause was a ruptured aorta, h
 ADELSON-Leone, 94, died May 4, 2003. Noted author of children's books, traveller, woman of wit and wisdom. She will be sorely missed by her many friends.       
 BIRNBAUM-Muriel. Beloved widow of the late Harris Birnbaum and loving and wonderful mother to Rick and Janet Birnbaum, and Barry and Ellen Birnbaum. Proud grandmother of Ron, Alice and Charles Birnbaum. Maternal and nurturing aunt to Tully and Beverly Safian, Sara Ann and Stan Wallerstein, 
 BROWNING-Susan Pollard, May 2, 2003. Devoted and beloved wife of Jackson B., Jr. Loving daughter of Frances and the late Stephen Pollard. Cherished sister of Stephen Pollard and Anne Perry. Also survived by eleven adored nieces and nephews. Reposing at Grace Church, 802 Broadway at East 10t
 DANSKER-Shirley. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, longtime member, Shirley Dansker, widow of Raphael Dansker. Shirley was an active member in our temple community and was also a past President of Sisterhood. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her daughter, Leslie
 DIAMOND-Hana Mackler, ''The Boot Lady.'' On May 4, 2003. Born to Albert and Lee Mackler, October 5, 1916. Wife of the late Charles. Mother of Susan Nathanson, mother - in - law of Barry, grandmother of Richard, Laurie and Greg, greatgrandmother of Julia, sister of Flore and the late Estelle
 GARDNER-Irene. On April 7, 2003 in her 90th year, after a long illness. A resident of Amityville, LI, Mrs. Gardner was the daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. Alfred Loewenstein and the wife of the late Frederick Gardner. A native of Ichenhausen, Germany, she served in the British Army, North
 LUERY-Anita Meyers. Born December 25th, 1930, died May 5th, 2003. A longtime resident of Stamford, CT, Anita worked in real estate, public relations and market research. She was an active volunteer in many organizations. Anita graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Smith College ('52) and attended e
 MARK-Muriel of Sunrise, FL died on April 30. Vibrant & loving. Muriel was formerly the Director of Communications at the Diamond Dealers Club in NY. Before moving to FL., Muriel and her late husband Louis, resided in Kew Gardens, NY. An amazing woman, full of life & energy. Muriel was graci
 PAPROTA-Anita. We mourn the untimely death of our friend whom we loved like a sister. Like us, she was a survivor of the Shoah. In spite of the hardships she endured in her life, she raised a beautiful family, her pride and joy, son, Peter (Sharon) and grandchildren Molly and Adam. Zachor. 
 SIMKOWITZ-Lucy, born in Tula, Russia in 1912, died this Sunday, May 4, 2003. At the age of ten she came to this country with her widowed mother. She made the English Language her own and was graduated from Hunter College in New York City. She is survived by her beloved husband of 70 years, 
 TROTZKY - Helen (nee Wiesenberger) died May 5, 2003 peacefully at home in her 99th year. Devoted wife to the late Nathan Trotzky, beloved sister to the late Arthur Wiesenberger, cherished mother of Doris and Dr. Bernard Weiss, Marie and Jules Rosen, adored grandmother to Wendy and Judd Melt
 Suzy Parker, the willowy, red-headed beauty whose elegant poses on scores of magazine covers defined glamour in the 1950's and paved the way for the supermodels to follow, died on Saturday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 69. Her husband, the actor Bradford Dillman, said she
 BROWNING-Susan Pollard, May 2, 2003. Devoted and beloved wife of Jackson B., Jr. Loving daughter of Frances and the late Stephen Pollard. Cherished sister of Stephen Pollard and Anne Perry. Also survived by eleven adored nieces and nephews. Reposing at Grace Church, 802 Broadway at East 10t
 DEMAREST-Leanne Hansen, on May 5, 2003, into her sixty-fourth year. Survived by her husband Kenneth L. Demarest Jr.; her sons, William H. Taft and Timothy P. Taft; & her brother, Stephen C. Hansen. Educated at the Lenox School, Briarcliff College & Columbia University. She was a resident of
 DIPPEL-Dorothy E. (Compter), 85, of Danbury, CT., formerly of Scarsdale, wife of the late Curt Dippel, died on May 4th. She is survived by her children, Barbara Gibbons of NY, Philipp Dippel of NY; two stepdaughters, Gerda Menninger of NJ, Dorothy DeSimone of CT; six grandchildren, 12 great
 GREISMAN-Ruth of Fort Lee, NJ. Predeceased by her beloved Bernard. Survived by her cherished children Stewart, Cheryl and Andrew Konstandt; and adored grandma of Matthew, Brad, Courtney and Sami. A woman whose love of family and friends was foremost. Services are Friday, 10:00 AM at Robert 
 HOLZMAN SEMEL-Edythe. On May 5, 2003, adored wife of the late Herbert Semel and the late David Holzman, devoted mother of Peggy Kahn and Jeffrey Semel, and devoted stepmother of Jane Klein, and Jeffrey Holzman. Adoring sister of Allan Arbus. Cherished grandmother of Howard, Michael, and Emi
 PROSNIT-Sylvia, 84, of Cortez, Florida, (formerly of Eastchester) on Tuesday, May 6, 2003. Mrs. Prosnit was predeceased by her husband, Bernard Prosnit in 1989, and is survived by her devoted son and daughter, Rabbi James Prosnit and his wife, Wendy Bloch of Fairfield, CT, Margaret Jacobs a
 STROOCK-Hanna E. On May 5, 2003 after a long illness at her home. Beloved wife of Mark E. Stroock. Devoted mother of Mark E. Stroock III, and Carolyn Klein. Fond mother-in-law of Mary T. Stroock, and Gerald Klein. Cherished grandmother of Tracey and Brian McFarland, Will and Jenica Stroock.
 TROTZKY-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Helen Trotzky, beloved grandmother of Cathy Zises, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Cathy, a trustee at the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, and her husband, Sey
 Marie-Claude Lalique, keeper of the Lalique family tradition in glass and crystal artistry until her retirement in 1994, died on April 14 on Captiva Island, Fla. She was 67 and lived on Captiva and in Provence. The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said. Ms. L
 DALVEN-Josephine. Born in Coney Island and life-long Brooklyn resident, she was the daughter of the late Louis and Tillie Schwartz, loving wife of the late Dr. Joseph Dalven and stepmother of Dr. Richard Dalven of California. Beloved sister of Gertrude Sperber (Abraham) of Albany, Regina Ha
 GOLDSTEIN-Hartley. Longtime Board Member of the 2wice Arts Foundation, dear father of our Founder and President, Patricia Tarr. We extend heartfelt sympathy to Patsy and her family.       
 SPEYER-Germaine M. Wife of the late Ernest A. Speyer. Died in her 90th year. Mother of Vivian and Donald Sonnenborn, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley. Grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey, Robert, Holly and Jonathan, Laura, Jonah, Andrew and David. Great-grandmother of William, Charles and A
 STEINER - Jeanette. Died May 5, 2003 in Jerusalem, Israel after a long illness. Beloved wife of Dr. Alexander Steiner. Devoted mother to Hagai and step-mother to Dan, Nava and Miriam. Loving grandmother to Bar and Shir. Cherished sister of Alice Geisler and aunt of Robert Geisler. She was a
 BAKER-Katharine J., 98, died on April 29, 2003, at her home in Englewood, NJ. Katharine Baker was born in Cleveland, Ohio on July 1, 1904, daughter of Arthur Bacon and Ida Irwin Jones. She earned degrees in biochemistry from Vassar College and Radcliffe College. During World War II, she par
 BERMAN-Ann Rooke-Ley. Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our congregant, Ann Rooke-Ley Berman. We extend our deepest condolences to their families. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President BERMAN-Ann Rooke L
 BRACH-William L. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and the Greater New York community of the American Associates, extend their deepest sympathy to Nancy on the passing of her husband, and to Norma, Peter, Betsy and Tara on the passing of their father. A great friend of BGU and national boa
 KNUDSEN-Laura (nee Bucknell), on March 17, 2003. A memorial service will be held Sunday, May 11, at 2PM at All Soul's Unitarian Church, Lexington Ave at 80th St. Contributions in her memory may be made to Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, PO Box 27106, NY, NY 10017.       
 QUINTAL-Muriel S. (nee Smith) of Rye, New York and formerly of New York City. Died peacefully May 7, 2003 at age 90. Born February 28, 1913 in NYC to Martin Henry and Frances (nee Montague) Smith. Devoted mother of Richard M. Quintal (wife Catherine W.) of Darien, CT, and Barbara Q. Berglun
 SOSNE-Norma. Born September 20, 1925, deceased May 7, 2003. Survived by her adoring children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and countless friends. She gave us the gifts of love and laughter. She spread her cheer everywhere she went. Freed from the bondage of a terrible illness, her spi
 SPEYER-Germaine M. Wife of the late Ernest A. Speyer. Died in her 90th year. Mother of Vivian and Donald Sonnenborn, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley. Grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey, Robert, Holly and Jonathan, Laura, Jonah, Andrew and David. Great-grandmother of William, Charles and A
 TOPAZ-Muriel. Boosey & Hawkes mourns the loss of Muriel ''Micki'' Topaz Druckman, who worked tirelessly to preserve the legacy of great 20th century choreographers. Her contributions will live on; her presence will be missed. Boosey & Hawkes Jennifer Bilfield, President       
 ZAIMI-Nexhmie, who was known as the first lady of the Albanian-American community, a best-selling author, journalist, lifelong defender of the voiceless, and woman of remarkable accomplishments, died on April 18th in Santa Barbara, California. She was 86       
 Jocelyn Herbert, a noted British stage designer, died on Tuesday in London. She was 86. She is remembered in Britain for her austere, intelligently illuminated and evocative stage settings. They included the sets for the 1964 production of ''Othello,'' with Laurence Olivier, at the 
 BERMAN-Ann Rooke-Ley. The Board of Governors and staff of The Museum of Arts and Design mourn the passing of Ann Rooke-Ley Berman, a longtime friend and Board member of the museum. Ann was a guiding light and inspiration to us all, and our deepest sympathies are with her family at this time
 SPEYER-Germaine M. Wife of the late Ernest A. Speyer. Died in her 90th year. Mother of Vivian and Donald Sonnenborn, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley. Grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey, Robert, Holly and Jonathan, Laura, Jonah, Andrew and David. Great-grandmother of William, Charles and A
 STOFFMAN-Anna Birova. In loving memory of our grandmother, who died on Mother's Day 50 years ago, May 10, 1953, but whose strength, dignity, courage and devotion to family lives on in the hearts of her grandchildren, Alan M. Koral and Marianne K. Smythe       
 BERMAN-Ann Rooke-Ley. We mourn the loss of our good friend, Ann Rooke-Ley Berman, and extend our condolences to Josh, Andrea, and Barnaby. Her indomitable spirit was an inspiration to us all. Her Friends at Kenmare Capital LLC Spring Air Partners-NA, Inc. BERMAN-Rooke-Ley Ann. Our d
 BRODY-Edith L. (Astor). Passed away May 8th. Survived by Bernie, her beloved husband and best friend for 75 years. Treasured by her children, Jane, Amy, Renee, Michael, Steven and Richard. She also leaves seven grandchildren and her loving sister, Mae. Forever in our hearts.       
 FIELD-Virginia C. April 30, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Leonard S. Field. She is survived by her step-daughters and niece and nephew. Funeral private.       
 KOFF-Leah. Emunah of America mourns the passing of Leah Koff, beloved sister of our National President, Marcia Genuth. Leah was a woman of valor who was beloved by everyone who knew her. Our sincerest condolences to her children, Rabbi Zvi Koff, Chavi Goldberg, Abie Koff and Yitzchok Koff, 
 MOONEY-Helen. Beloved wife of the late Jac. A. Mooney. Devoted mother of Dr. Lewis and Alison Mooney and Dr. Fredi and George Munger. Cherished grandmother of Ellen and Jason Mooney and Benjamin, Jamie and Lucy Munger. Dear aunt and friend to all who knew and loved her. Her warmth and gener
 MURPHY-Catherine Mary. May 8, 2003. Loving sister of the late Sister Miriam Murphy. Devoted cousin of Major General Joseph Dickman. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Mass of Christian Burial, Wednesday, May 14, at 10:30am at St. John the Evangilist Church, 348 E. 55th
 PERGAMENT-Irene. 74 of Old Westbury, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray for 53 years. Loving mother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppe
 ROBERTS - Leanne Bovet. Passed away on Wednesday, May 7, 2003, after a short illness. She was at home, surrounded by her family. Leanne grew up on the Borel Family estate in San Mateo. It was there that she began her lifelong love of animals. She was known in the neighborhood for her unusua
 SCHACHTER - Marjorie C. Passed away April 23, 2003. Retired French teacher at Hunter College. A woman of strength, kindness & generosity, she will be missed by her friends, neighbors & family.       
 SHAWE-Suzanne. Suddenly passed on May 5, 2003, in NYC. Dearly beloved daughter of Mildred Epstein. Adored mother of Bradley, Brian and Lisa. Cherished grandmother of Denise, Michael and Jennifer, Mallorie, Rachel and Spencer. Devoted wife of the late Arthur Shawe. Her devotion to her family
 SOSNE-Norma. Born September 20, 1925, deceased May 7, 2003. Survived by her adoring children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and countless friends. She gave us the gifts of love and laughter. She spread her cheer everywhere she went. Freed from the bondage of a terrible illness, her spi
 SPEYER-Germaine M. Wife of the late Ernest A. Speyer. Died in her 90th year. Mother of Vivian and Donald Sonnenborn, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley. Grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey, Robert, Holly and Jonathan, Laura, Jonah, Andrew and David. Great-grandmother of William, Charles and A
 TROTZKY - Helen. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with sadness the death of Helen Trotzky, beloved grandmother of Cathy Zises, our devoted trustee. Cathy and her husband Seymour have always been great and generous friends to c
 WINKLER-Rita (nee Elbaum). On May 8th, 2003. Wife of the late Henry. Mother of John and C. Sue. Grandmother of Joshua, Rolfe, Aaron and Michal. Friends may gather Monday, 10AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels of Great Neck prior to services at cemetery. WINKLER - Rita. Temple Beth-
 STOFFMAN-Anna Birova. In loving memory of our grandmother, who died on Mother's Day 50 years ago, May 10, 1953, but whose strength, dignity, courage and devotion to family lives on in the hearts of her grandchildren, Alan M. Koral and Marianne K. Smythe       
 TORREY-Ella King. With sadness we mourn the loss of Ella King Torrey, our beloved colleague and friend. Our condolences to her family and many friends. Though the absence of her extraordinary presence remains, we celebrate her spirit, creativity and commitment to artists. A memorial service
 JEFFREY - Miriam Judith Rosenwasser. 98, of Charlotte, NC, Ft. Pierce, FL, and Great Neck, NY, died Tuesday, May 6, 2003, at the Carriage Club of Charlotte. She was born December 12, 1904, in NYC, to James R. and Clarice Waters. A graveside service was held Friday, May 9, 2003, at Forest La
 KINDWALL-Lucille Shore. Died peacefully at her home in Jupiter, Florida, on May 9, after a long battle with bone marrow disease. She was 84. She was a resident of Jonathan's Landing in Jupiter since 1987. Lucille spent most of her adult life in Weston, Connecticut, where she taught English 
 PERGAMENT-Irene. 74 of Old Westbury, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray for 53 years. Loving mother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppe
 Elizabeth Neuffer, the award-winning foreign correspondent for The Boston Globe who died on Friday in in an automobile accident in Iraq, had traveled there to cover the aftermath of the war. She was 46. Ms. Neuffer was a passenger in a car that apparently struck a guardrail near Sam
 BROWN-Robert E. The Executive Committee and the Board of Directors of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries notes with profound sorrow the passing of Robert E. Brown, beloved father of Dr. Joyce F. Brown, President of the Fashion Institute of Technology and CEO, EFFI. Our he
 DENSEN - GERBER - Ju dianne: psychiatrist, lawyer, educator, daughter of Gustave Gerber and Beatrice Densen died on May 11, 2003 in her sleep from complications of cancer. She was graduated from Bryn Mawr College (1956) and received her JD (1959) from Columbia University, MD (1963) from New
 MAHDAVI-Maria. On May 9th, 2003 at age 57. Loving mother of Tanjee Mahdavi and sister of Franklin Loh. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her. Services will be held Tuesday, May 13th, 2003, 5:30PM at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributio
 MARKER-Rose Bernstein of Brooklyn, New York, died peacefully at home in her hundredth year on May 11, 2003. She is survived by her loving children, daughter Marcia Marker Feld of Newton Centre, Ma, her husband Alan, three grandsons, and daughters-in-law and four great grandsons, and daughte
 MOONEY-Helen. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 PERGAMENT-Irene. 74 of Old Westbury, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray for 53 years. Loving mother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppe
 SACKS-Shirley. With class, dignity and peace, Shirley Sacks passed on Mother's Day after a long challenge with Parkinson's disease. She is survived by her husband Alexander who unconditionally loved and actively cared for her. She leaves three of her sisters, Natalie, Florence, and Betty. S
 SHIREY-Margaret Ann. Our love and prayers go out to our colleague Kathy and her sister Claire on the loss of their beloved mother, Ann. Laurie, Joanna, Grant, Cristhian and Ricardo       
 SILNA-Gail J., 39. Our beautiful shining light, died on May 11 after a long, courageous battle with Aids. A ray of sunshine with her warmth, wit, compassion and generosity, her untimely passing will be a void in all our lives. A graduate of Boston University, Gail was one of a kind, a free 
 SULLIVAN-Arax (nee Vartanian), 94, of Palm Beach, FL and Ft. Lee, NJ, on May 8, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Robert for 65 years. Survived by her sons Dennis & Shawn, her sister Lucy Nigosian, three grandchildren and two great grandchildren.       
 Dr. Judianne Densen-Gerber, a lawyer and psychiatrist who founded the drug treatment program Odyssey House and went on to give widely quoted but sometimes disputed testimony on subjects like child abuse and pornography, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 68. The cause was cancer, 
 BANNARD FESSENDEN Marion S. Formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., died peacefully on May 6, 2003 in Greenport, N.Y. at the age of 80. She was married for 45 years to the late William N. Bannard, and is survived by her husband of nine years, Edward E. Fessenden. Loving mother of Marie B. Loc
 DENSEN - GERBER - Ju dianne, M.D., J.D. The Board of Trustees, officers, staff and residents of Odyssey House mourn the passing of Dr. Densen-Gerber. As the founder of Odyssey House 35 years ago, Dr. Densen-Gerber pioneered therapeutic community treatment programs that helped save the lives
 GRAHAM - Edith Altschul. Passed away Friday May 2, 2003 in Stamford, CT. Wife of the late Robert C. Graham, Sr. Survived by her three children: Robert C. Graham, Jr. and Michael C. Graham of Stamford, CT and Kathryn G. Graham of NYC, NY; three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Se
 JACOBSON-Elaine. On May 12 in Tucson. Dearly beloved wife of Jim for 51 years, loving mother of Anne (Rick), Tom and Nancy, proud grandmother of Matthew, Emma and Julian and loving sister of Dr. George Pomerantz. Devoted and tireless volunteer for charitable causes. She will be greatly miss
 PARISER-Lora. The Young Israel of Oceanside mourns the loss of our dear member and friend, and extends heartfelt condolences to her bereaved family. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi Alan Pelikow, President       
 ROTHSTEIN-Barbara. The Young Israel of Oceanside mourns the loss of our dear member and friend, and extends heartfelt condolences to her bereaved family. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi Alan Pelikow, President       
 BARTON-Rhea Marie, MD, of Yonkers, NY. Passed away on May 8, 2003 at age 45. She proudly served as family physician, Associate Director of the New York Medical College at St. Joseph's Family Practice Residency Program, and Assistant Professor in the Department of Family Medicine at New York
 FAY-Alison, May 12, 2003, Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Lisa and Keith. Devoted daughter of Margaret MacBain and the late Gavin MacBain. Her compassion for love and life will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Tuesday, May 20, 9:30 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 GOLDMAN - Etta Louise. Hudson Guild marks with great sadness the passing of our long-time Trustee. She will be missed. Lee Buckley, President Paul F. Balser, Chairman Janice McGuire, Executive Director       
 LEWIS-Margery Merrill Cuyler. 90, of Princeton and Hightstown, NJ died May 13 after a short illness. She was the widow of Lewis B. Cuyler and John B. Lewis. Funeral services will be at 3:00 PM, Saturday, May 17 at Trinity Church, Princeton, with burial and reception to follow. Details may b
 MOORE-Margaret. Died in Christ May 10, 2003. Funeral and Reception, St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Ave. at 71st St., Thursday, May 15, at 4 P.M. Beloved wife of Thomas R. Moore, Esq., noted NY lawyer, mother of Willard, Clarissa, and Charles Moore, grandmother of Sarah Moore, daughter 
 PERGAMENT - Irene. The Tel Aviv Foundation expresses profound sorrow to the Pergament family on the passing of Irene-a tremendous loss. She was a valiant and elegant woman. The Irene and Murray Pergament Writers House and Gutman Museum in Neve Tzedek donated in memory of their daughter Sher
 June Carter Cash, a singer, songwriter and actress and the wife and collaborator of Johnny Cash, died yesterday in Nashville. She was 73. She had been critically ill since having surgery at Baptist Hospital on May 7 to replace a heart valve. Of all her accomplishments, the b
 CROUTER-Agathe (nee Keliher). The Packer Collegiate Institute Board of Trustees, Alumni Board, faculty and staff mourn the loss of our long-time friend and esteemed alumna. A former Trustee and member of the class of 1954, Mrs. Crouter served as a tireless advocate for Packer. She made deep
 FAY-Alison, May 12, 2003, Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Lisa and Keith. Devoted daughter of Margaret MacBain and the late Gavin MacBain. Her compassion for love and life will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Tuesday, May 20, 9:30 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 FRIEDLANDER-Anne. Died May 11, at age 100, after a lifetime fighting for peace, social justice, and against racism. She had a major influence on the lives of her nephews, Sidney and Philip, her niece Sylvia, and their families.       
 GLOECKNER - Constance Hall, 87, longtime past resident of West Cornwall, CT, died peacefully Saturday May 3, 2003 in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved aunt of William Hall Brinckerhoff of Palm Beach, FL and of Sidney Burr Brinckerhoff of Bellevue, WA. who survive her. Beloved daughter of the lat
 GOODMAN - Agnes Marie, 85, of Bradenton, FL. Died on Wednesday, May 14, 2003. The daughter of the late Mary (Daly) Dowling and John Dowling, she was born on March 16, 1918 in Manhattan, N.Y. and retired to Bradenton, FL. in 1979 from Brooklyn, N.Y. She was the widow of the late Dr. Herman S
 LEVY-Ann, 85, of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife & mother. Widow of Ernest, mother of John of Putnam Valley, NY. Born in Berlin. Ann was an adventurous world traveler with a keen wit and strong intellect. She was an accomplished bridge player, an athlete and an avid golfer. Funeral 12 noon Frid
 MARCUS-Celine G. Died on May 15, 2003 at the age of 93. Funeral on Sunday, May 18, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave at W. 91 St. Proud mother of Daniel, Ann and Dorothea. Beloved sister of Marion Epstein and Helen Joffe. Loving grandmother of Stephanie, Jonathan, Alexandr
 STRAUS-Gwendolyn, died May 14, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Straus, loving mother of Moshael (Zahava), Daniel (Joyce), Adina (Jeffrey) and Bethia (Paul), dear sister of Annette Renick, and the late Samson Goldstein and the late Judah Goldstein, proud grandmother of Elizabeth, Dori,
 MARCUS-Celine G. Funeral 12 noon, May 18, Plaza Jewish Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at West 91 St. MARCUS-Celine G. The Board of Directors and staff members of the Volunteer Referral Center mourn the loss of their longtime Board member, Celine Marcus. Her wisdom, wit and intelligenc
 SCHUETZ-Mona Wolcott, 82, of Middletown, NJ died May 15, 2003. Mona graduated from Elmira College and received her Master's degree as a dietician. She devoted much of her time to volunteer work in various charitable organizations and was President of the Family and Children's Service, Long 
 WHITE-Rowenna L. Wight May 17, 1980-Sept 2, 1998 Remembered on her 23rd Birthday for her beauty, wit, exuberance. By her Mothe       
 Dame Wendy Hiller, the distinguished English stage and screen actress who was George Bernard Shaw's choice to play two of his most famous heroines, Eliza Doolittle and Major Barbara, died on Wednesday at her home in Beaconsfield, England. She was 90. Dame Wendy's performances were c
 CARR-Anne K. Editor with a cause, died in her sleep May 12, 2003. Predeceased by her husband, Albert Carr. Survived by her niece, Jane, and six nieces and nephews. August memorial. Contributions North Shore Animal League.       
 CHERNOFF - Barbara (Whitestone). Of NYC, formerly of Brookline, MA, on Friday, May 16. Services held at the Levine Chapels in Brookline, MA. Memorial observance on Tuesday, May 20, at her late residence, from 3-9 PM. Remembrances may be made to the Thoracic Oncology Research Fund, C/O Sloan
 CONSOR-Carolyn M. Passed away on Thursday, May 15, 2003. Beloved wife of James Consor and loving mother of Maggie and Martha Consor, she is also survived by her brother, Frank O'Donnell III of Atlanta, GA. Longtime resident of New York City, Lyn grew up in Larchmont, NY, and graduated from 
 EPSTEIN-Ruth (Goldman). Peacefully at home on May 14, 2003. Predeceased by Perry, her husband of 50 years. Survived by loving daughters, Ellen, Judy and Fran.       
 FOGELSON-Sara Alma, 86, passed away on May 12, 2003. She was a retired educator who had a passion for literature & the arts. Sara Fogelson grew up in NYC and spent the last few years of her life in Houston, TX. She was preceded in death by her husband, Sidney Fogelson & daughter, Judith Gla
 ISEMAN-Marjorie Frankenthaler of Manhattan, died on May 10, 2003. Greatly loved & admired mother of Peter, Frederick and Ellen and devoted grandmother of Eugenie Iseman, Henry Iseman and Alexander O'Neill. Loving sister of Helen Frankenthaler and the late Gloria Bookman. A memorial gatherin
 KASHINS-Geraldine H. Died Thursday, May 15th at age 101. A woman ahead of her time, Ms. Kashins was a retired businesswoman who worked for Proctor & Gamble and R.J. Reynolds. A talented tarot card reader, who predicted the future. Born in NYC, she traveled the world and delighted friends an
 KATZ-Sue. Our dear Sue, you were a great thinker, a woman of inspiration and vision. We will treasure our memories and think of you always. Jackie and Marty Weinstein KATZ-Susan K. On May 16, 2003. Beloved wife of Jerome. Loving mother of Peter and David. Dear sister of Nancy Wergel
 MARCUS-Celine G. The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter deeply mourn the loss of our much-loved founder, past president, mentor and friend. Celine devoted her life to identifying solutions to the problems facing the homeless, children, senior citizens and the poor in 
 PEGRAM-Hattie. Mrs. Hattie Pegram has passed on. The retired New York Telephone / Verizon 27 year veteran made a tremendous effort to overcome the side effects of a critical operation to remove an aneurysm this past January. She died peacefully in her sleep on May 10, 2003 at 5:45 AM. She i
 RICHMAN-Gloria. The family of Gloria Richman, wife of the late Dr. Benjamin Richman, mourns the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, who passed away on May 15, 2003. She is survived by her children, Lorna Bodian and Ronald Richman, and their spouses Eugene and Ro
 SHOOKHOFF-Francine. The firm, Joyce Leslie, that Fran represented for 34 years joins her family in mourning. She was a wonderful and beautiful person, who will be missed by all who were touched by her. Francine's loyalty, honesty and sincerity will be missed. She set an example for us all t
 SILVERSTEIN - Sadie. 91. Wife of the late Rabbi Israel Silverstein. Mother of Lorraine (Leonard) Dauber, grandmother of Paul Dauber, Jane (Michael) Lewittes, and Daniel (Dina) Dauber. Greatgrandmother of Joshua, Jack and Sophie Lewittes. Funeral at 10:00 AM today, The Jewish Center, 131 Wes
 STRAUS - Gwendolyn. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the beloved wife of the late Joseph Straus, of blessed memory, who was a kind, gentle, loving mother, and an active leader in many organizations on behalf of Israel and Jewish education, including valiant service as a r
 SWARZMAN-Sue. May 12, 2003. Beloved sister, aunt, niece and devoted friend to many. Her successful advertising sales career included Life and Business Week magazines. She was a dedicated member of 3rd Church of Christ Scientist for 40 years. Life celebration service Thursday, May 22, at 3 P
 TUCKER-Helen. On May 10th at the age of 96. Life-affirming she was a gifted teacher, loving sister, friend, foster mother and grandmother. All are richer for having known her.       
 BIERMAN-Magda Vogel, 89, a women's clothing and interior designer, died May 17, 2003, after a lengthy illness. Born in Hungary, she emigrated to New York City as a young girl. Beloved wife of Samuel Bierman, Esq., who passed away in July 1977, she is survived by a large family: her daughter
 CARTER-Helen. A great lady. We will not forget her warmth, strength and wit. Richard and Dee Katherine and James       
 GOLDBERG-Jennie, on May 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Michael, loving mother of Francine and Martin Schwartz and Irene and Azram Stundel, adored grandmother of Ian, Michael, Deborah and Rebecca. She was a woman of valor.       
 HOBERMAN-Sylvia. 78, of Valley Stream, died Saturday, May 17, 2003. Devoted wife to her dearest friend Carl for 59 years. Loving mother of Richard and Joan Hoberman of Syosset and Judith Hoberman and Dominic Kinsley of New Haven, CT. Cherished grandmother of Deborah and Sam Cohen of Great N
 HOFF-Carol Stillwell. 84 of Jupiter, FL, and Indian Island, Lake Hopatcong, NJ, formerly of Westfield, NJ, on Friday, May 16, 2003. Mother of Dorothy H. Clarke of Arlington, VA, Patricia H. McCartan of Punta Gorda, FL, Margaret H. Holloway of Topsfield, MA, Barbara H. Hoff of South Windsor,
 KATZ-Susan K. On May 16, 2003. Beloved wife of Jerome. Loving mother of Peter and David. Dear sister of Nancy Wergeles. Adoring grandmother of Alixandra, Jared, Daniel, Jacqueline and Caroline. Service Monday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. KATZ-Susan K.
 MAY-Ruth Weinberg. Died peacefully in Miami Beach, FL, at the age of 96 on Wednesday, May 14, 2003. Daughter of the late Harry and Minnie Weinberg, sister of the late Jules Weinberg and Abraham Weinberg. Mother of the late Bruce May. Contributions may be made to a charity of your choice in 
 SCHULTZ - Margarete, of Great Neck, age 91, on May 17, 2003. Beloved widow of Heinz, loving mother of Caroline Adler, mother-in-law of Stephen, grandmother of Henry, Andrew and Jennifer, great-grandmother of Rachel, Hannah, David and Samantha and grandmother-inlaw of Denise and Deborah. Her
 SILVERSTEIN-Sadie. We all mourn the loss of our longtime member. Condolences to Lorraine Dauber and her entire family. Mohegan Park Jewish Center       
 SWARZMAN-Sue. May 12, 2003. Beloved sister, aunt, niece and devoted friend to many. Her successful advertising sales career included Life and Business Week magazines. She was a dedicated member of 3rd Church of Christ Scientist for 40 years. Life celebration service Thursday, May 22, at 3 P
 ALLEN - Miriam, 84, of Brooklyn, NY, on May 19, 2003. Wife of the late Sigmund Allen. Survived by grandson, Scott Itzkowitz. Funeral service Sherman's Funeral Home, Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn, Tuesday, May 20, at 9 AM. Burial Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. She will be sorely missed.     
 BERGAN-Susan Bancroft, 61 of New York City and Morris, CT. Died on Sunday May 18th, 2003. Beloved wife of Philip, proud mother of David of New York City and Jeffrey of San Francisco, CA. Loving mother-in-law-to-be of David's fiance Braden Cleveland of New York City and Charleston, SC. Devot
 CARTER-Helen Jones, on May 17, 2003, at age 95. Beloved wife of Elliott Carter, loving mother of David Carter and grandmother of Alexander Elliott Carter-Parks. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in her memory may be made to: American Association for People w
 KATZ-Susan. The Jewish Museum mourns the passing of Sue Katz, a devoted and passionate advocate for art and Jewish culture. As a founder of our Children's Hanukkah Program in 1995, Sue nurtured its growth through her enthusiasm, commitment, and energy. And as one of the first members of The
 KRUG-Ella Galvin, 85, of Quail Ridge Country Club, Boynton Beach, Florida, passed away at home and surrounded by her children on May 17, 2003. Ella Krug was predeceased by her husband Paul L. Krug in 1997. She is survived by her three brothers, John Galvin, Thomas Galvin and Rev. William Ga
 PATKO-Nancy (nee Jeselsohn) on May 18, 2003. Beloved by her family and friends. Survived by her loving sons Jarad and Jonathan; her father Fred and Saskia; her brothers Paul and Daniel and sisters Vicki and Laurie and their families and loved ones. Memorial service at Morgan Funeral Home, M
 SILVERSTEIN - Sadie. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a compassionate, kind, generous and long-time friend and supporter of Jewish education who, with her late husband, Rabbi Israel I. Silverstein (a former Trustee of the affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theologica
 SWARZMAN-Sue. May 12, 2003. Beloved sister, aunt, niece and devoted friend to many. Her successful advertising sales career included Life and Business Week magazines. She was a dedicated member of 3rd Church of Christ Scientist for 40 years. Life celebration service Thursday, May 22, at 3 P
 WEINERT-Sophia Blickman. Magical, creative, brilliant, loving. Perfect mother. Passionate and accomplished artist and writer. Visionary and generous sister, friend and mentor. She is survived by her daughter Shira Weinert, sisters Frances Schuster and Myrna Kresh, dearest friends Barbara Le
 WITKIND-Charlotte Lazarus, 83, ''Char'' to all who knew her, of Columbus, Ohio, May 18, 2003, at home after a long illness. Born August 20, 1919 in Columbus. Nobody lived or loved life more than Char. She was the ultimate fan, of people and sports. Her passions were many and deep. Her partn
 Celine G. Marcus, former executive director of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, an East Side social services organization, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 93. She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director
 BERGAN-Susan Bancroft, 61 of New York City and Morris, CT. Died on Sunday May 18th, 2003. Beloved wife of Philip, proud mother of David of New York City and Jeffrey of San Francisco, CA. Loving mother-in-law-to-be of David's fiance Braden Cleveland of New York City and Charleston, SC. Devot
 CARTER-Helen Jones, on May 17, 2003, at age 95. Beloved wife of Elliott Carter, loving mother of David Carter and grandmother of Alexander Elliott Carter-Parks. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in her memory may be made to: American Association for People w
 MITTMAN-Phyllis (nee Klinger). We mourn the loss and passing of our loving mother and grandmother on May 19, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Mittman and mother of Leslie, (Mrs. John Lehman), and Judy (Mrs. Michael Elfenbein). Cherished grandmother of Stephanie and Jeffrey Lehman, and
 ROSENBERG - Amy. The Board and Staff of JCC Association mourn the sudden loss of our colleague Amy Rosenberg, Associate Director of the JCC Maccabi Games, and Coordinator of Teen Services. Amy was a beloved member of our team. She had an enormous impact on tens of thousands of Jewish teens 
 SWARZMAN-Sue. May 12, 2003. Beloved sister, aunt, niece and devoted friend to many. Her successful advertising sales career included Life and Business Week magazines. She was a dedicated member of 3rd Church of Christ Scientist for 40 years. Life celebration service Thursday, May 22, at 3 P
 WILENTZ-Pamela Endacott. Sculptor, teacher, beloved wife of Eli and exceptional mother of Grace, on May 19, at age 54. During her joyous life, Pam affirmed beauty and the human spirit in her art and in her love for others. She fought wonderfully, unforgettably, for years against her illness
 WITKIND-Charlotte Lazarus, 83, ''Char'' to all who knew her, of Columbus, Ohio, May 18, 2003, at home after a long illness. Born August 20, 1919 in Columbus. Nobody lived or loved life more than Char. She was the ultimate fan, of people and sports. Her passions were many and deep. Her partn
 Helen Jones Carter, a former sculptor and the wife of the composer Elliott Carter, died on Saturday at the couple's home in Manhattan. She was 95. Born in Jersey City on July 4, 1907, Mrs. Carter trained as an artist at the Art Students League in New York, studying primarily with th
 BERGAN--Susan Bancroft. A woman of substance, intelligence, focus and humor, a loving and generous spirit. A fearless individual who lived life to the fullest. An inspiration to us all and a trailblazer for women in banking and finance since the 1960's, she made sure everyone and every day 
 BLEYER--Janet. Died on Sunday, May 18, 2003 at Roosevelt Hospital. Survived by two sons George and Gerald, their wives Myra and Penny, their two grandchildren Keith and Jamie. Family members include Caroline Buxbaum and Gregg Buxton her niece. Donations in Janet's memory should be made to a
 CARTER--Helen. Boosey & Hawkes mourns the passing of artist Helen Jones Carter, who also served as muse to her husband, composer Elliott Carter. Her loyalty, wit, and vitality will be missed. Boosey & Hawkes Jennifer Bilfield, President >>AD#       
 DALY--Kathleen. On Monday, May 19, 2003, Kathleen Daly passed away at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, NY after a brief illness. Ms. Daly was born in New York On July 13, 1921, the daughter of Edward and Mary Sheridan Daly. She was also the beloved niece of Delia and Nellie Sheridan with
 DURANDO -- Isabella Ga brielle. May 20, 2003. Beloved daughter of David Durando and Michelle Bogosian. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, May 22, 2003 3 to 5 and 7 to 9PM. Mass of Christ
 HOPE--Joyce M. Died peacefully at her home on May 17, 2003, at age 66. Loving daughter of the late Helen and Daniel Mortonsen. Retired Professor, Hunter-Bellevue School of Nursing. Cherished alumni, Hunter College, City University of New York, esteemed Executive Board Member of The Alpha Ph
 JAKOBSON--Lusia. On May 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Teodor. Survived by her sister-in-law Yoela Boichis. Graveside services Friday, 2PM at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY. >>AD#       
 PERUGGI--Anna Marie. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy extends its sincere sympathies to Regina Peruggi, our esteemed president of the Central Park Conservancy, on the loss of her mother. Our thoughts and prayers are with her. The Board of the Women's Committee, Central 
 POMEROY -- Jean Louise. From Plainfield, N.J. Passed on May 12 in Atlanta, GA. at age 87. Her husband John died in 1997 and she is survived by two sons, John and Peter, both in Atlanta. >>AD#       
 SHAPIRO--Vera (Vicki) nee Messing of Floral Park and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Edward Shapiro, loving mother of Elizabeth Shapiro and Robert Factor; Edward (Skip) Shapiro Jr. and Barbara; Michael Shapiro and Carolyn, and her grandchildren Benjamin, Julia, Sean and Leigh. 
 ABRAMOWITZ--Pauline. In her 92nd year. Beloved wife of Hyman; devoted mother of Joan and Irv Palitz, David and Rochelle, Allan and Paula and Mindy and Don Richter, loving grandmother of nine, cherished great grandmother of 15. Services at ''BoulevardRiverside'' 1895 Flatbush Ave at Avenue L
 AIRHEART--Dorothy L., of Manhattan, died on January 12th, 2003 at age 89. Beloved sister of Colonel William C. Airheart. A memorial service was held in her honor in Roanoke, VA on Saturday, May 17. A Founder and Past President of the Seraphic Society, she was a trailblazer for women in indu
 BLEIWEISS -- Ruth Marion. Died peacefully May 11, 2003 on Mother's Day and her wedding anniversary. Beloved mother of Ellen and Elizabeth. She will be missed by all whose lives she touched in her 85 years. She was married to Dr. Irwin Bleiweiss for 51 years and lived in Plainview, New York 
 DWORMAN--Leona, 79. Beloved wife of Lester, loving mother of Peter, Jayne and the late Nancy, adoring grandmother of Charles, devoted sister of Minerva. Dear mother-in-law of Allyson and Leslie. Passed away on May 21. She will live in our hearts forever. Contributions may be made to NYU Rus
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace. >>AD#       
 LEWIS--Gertrude, age 92, formerly of NYC, died in Lenox, MA, May 20, 2003. Lifelong educator, humanitarian and fighter for peace, justice, and a healthy environment, predeceased by her husband of 71 years, Murray Lewis, who died September 22, 2001. Retired in 1973, the couple lived in CA, F
 SHAPIRO--Vera (Vicki) nee Messing of Floral Park and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Edward Shapiro, loving mother of Elizabeth Shapiro and Robert Factor; Edward (Skip) Shapiro Jr. and Barbara; Michael Shapiro and Carolyn, and her grandchildren Benjamin, Julia, Sean and Leigh. 
 FINE--Marjorie Goldstein, on May 23, 2003 at home in New York City at age 86. Beloved mother of Ellen Weaver. Adored grandmother of Marc Davies. Great-grandmother of Marc and Lenore's children, Zachary, Owen and Sam. Cherished aunt of Susan and Stan Mirsky. Loving greataunt of Jennifer and 
 GAULT--Louise Mellor, in New York City on May 23, 2003 of complications from Myelodisplastic Syndrome (MDS), a blood marrow disorder. She had been battling other forms of cancer for many years. She was 68. Beloved wife of Stanley A. Bowker of New York City. Louise is also survived by two br
 SELIGMAN--Janice Lerner. Died peacefully at home on Thursday, May 22, after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved daughters Ellen and Maggie and her grandchildren Alex and David. She had for many years been an active fundraiser for The New Lincoln School. She was well-known by her 
 SHECHET--Jean. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Jean, wife of our esteemed member, David Shechet, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President >>AD#       
 CARTER--Helen Jones, on May 17, 2003, at age 95. Beloved wife of Elliott Carter, loving mother of David Carter and grandmother of Alexander Elliott Carter-Parks. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in her memory may be made to: American Association for People 
 DEMPSTER--Amelia Robinson, of Yonkers, NY, formerly of Gramercy Park and Riverdale, NY, died on April 10, 2003. She was an avid supporter of the arts, an active member of the Stuyvesant Park Neighborhood Association and volunteer at St. George Episcopal Church. Amy will be keenly missed by 
 FINE -- Marjorie Goldstein, known as Maggie. On May 23, at 5:45am, at home, after 86 memorable years. Beloved mother of Ellen Weaver, adored grandmother of Marc Davies and great-grandmother to Marc and Lenore's children: Zachary, Owen and Sam. Cherished aunt of Susan and Stan Mirsky. Treasu
 GAULT--Louise Mellor, in New York City on May 23, 2003 of complications from Myelodisplastic Syndrome (MDS), a blood marrow disorder. She had been battling other forms of cancer for many years. She was 68. Beloved wife of Stanley A. Bowker of New York City. Louise is also survived by two br
 GREENBERG -- Anna. On May 21st. Private funeral was held. Should friends so desire, tax deductible contributions in her memory may be made to the Greenberg Breast Cancer Research Foundation (formerly Breast and Prostate Cancer Research Foundation) at 1735 York Ave, NY, NY 10128. Memorial se
 LASKARIS--Areti. Death of a legend. Beloved mother to Sofia, Etaminondas, Thomas (Annette). Nurturing grandmother to Franziska, Zoey, Alexandria, Phillip, Chrysanthe and Alexandros. Passed on May 23. The world knew her as the hard working hotdog lady ''Rita'' that stood on Beaver Street dow
 MARSHALL--Susan Nelson of La Jolla, CA died on May 18 at at the age of 63 after a brief illness. She was the daughter of the late Richard and Helen Nelson of Short Hills, NJ. She was a graduate of the Beard School and Wheelock College. Mrs. Marshall formerly resided in Short Hills and Darie
 O'NEAL--Janice Markey Sinnott of Marco Island, Florida passed away at home surrounded by her children on May 22, 2003. Friends may call on Thursday, May 29, 2003, from 5PM to 8PM at the John J. Fox Funeral Home, 2080 Boston Post Road, Larchmont, NY 10538. 914834-0144. Mass of Christian Buri
 PETERSON -- Sally. The Board of Directors, Staff and Children of the Girls' Vacation Fund mourn the passing of Sally Atwood Peterson, Officer and Board member since 1975. Her dedication to the girls of New York City made it possible for hundreds to enjoy camp each summer. Her memory lives o
 ROSEN--Ansel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ansel Rosen, beloved mother of our dear friend, Lorie Brice. Lorie and her husband, Harvey, have expressed a deep commitment to supporting Jewish causes and helping those in need. We
 ROSSI--Astrid (Nana). Age 80, May 12, 2003. She is preceded in death by husband, Loftus. Mrs. Rossi was born May 30, 1922 in St. Thomas. Beloved mother of Storm & Michael. Grandmother of David, Lisa & Michelle. Great-grandmother of Adrian. Survived by sisters Margie and Lena. Burial Calvert
 SCHNOLL--Ida. 98. May 20, 2003 peacefully at home in Teaneck, NJ. Beloved mother of Eleanor Ellis and the late Bernard Schnoll, loving grandmother and greatgrandmother. Cherished by the many family and friends she loved so much. Her love was returned in abundance as she taught us to never u
 SCHULTZ -- Margarete, of Great Neck, age 91, on May 17, 2003. Beloved widow of Heinz, loving mother of Caroline Adler, mother-in-law of Stephen, grandmother of Henry, Andrew and Jennifer, great-grandmother of Rachel, Hannah, David and Samantha and grandmother-inlaw of Denise and Deborah. He
 SELIGMAN--Janice Lerner. Died peacefully at home on Thursday, May 22, after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved daughters Ellen and Maggie and her grandchildren Alex and David. She had for many years been an active fundraiser for The New Lincoln School. She was well-known by her 
 SHAPIRO--Laura (nee Ellert) on May 20, 2003. Wife of Irving Shapiro, loving mother of Martin Shapiro and Marsha Granville, loving grandmother. She was the best. >>AD#       
 SHAW -- Marjory Bacon Cheney, 90, died May 17, 2003 in Brookline, MA. Wife of the late Quincy Adams Shaw, Jr. Born June 21, 1912 to the late Austin and Ruth Cheney of Manchester, CT. Mother of Anne Shaw Hurwitz and the late Sandra Shaw Loring. She is survived by eight grandchildren and thre
 GOLDBERG -- Sandra. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of North Woodmere, NY, passed away on May 25, 2003, at age 67. She is survived by her loving husband Arny; children Howard and Cindy, Brian and Brenna, Michael and Jill; grandchildren Gregory, Alex, Remy, Jacob, Melissa, Alison and Lindsey;
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace. >>AD#       
 KLINGEL--Jean. Died May 23, peacefully in her sleep, age 89. Formerly of New York City; lived since 1995 with her daughter Dr. Joan Klingel Ray. Memorials may be sent to Silver Key Senior Services, 2250 Bott Avenue, Colorado Springs, CO 80904. >>AD#       
 LASKARIS--Areti. Death of a legend. Beloved mother to Sofia, Epaminondas, Thomas (Annette). Nurturing grandmother to Franziska, Zoey, Alexandria, Phillip, Chrysanthe and Alexandros. Passed on May 23. The world knew her as the hard working hotdog lady ''Rita'' that stood on Beaver Street dow
 MADDEN -- Kelley. Sincere condolences to William Madden, Vice President, Long Island College Hospital, and family on the loss of your beloved wife and mother. Our thoughts and prayers are with you at this time. She was dearly loved and will be sorely missed. John Wren Chairman of the Board 
 ROSTEN--Bevya (nee Beverly Rosen). Daughter of the late Herschel and Ida Rosen, died on May 24, after a long and valiant struggle. Survived by her sister Miriam Rosen. Deeply mourned by all who knew and loved her. Services Tuesday, May 27, at 11 AM, Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterd
 SHECHET -- Jean. Delaire Country Club mourns the loss of their member, Jean Shechet, and extends their sincere sympathies to her beloved husband David. Jack Lipsey, President >>AD#       
 MARKS--Ruth. Her song has ended, but the melody lingers on. Happy Birthday, Mom. Joyce, Jason, Greg and Jordan       
 The performer who used the stage name Pepper LaBeija as a glamorous queen of the Harlem drag balls immortalized in the 1991 documentary ''Paris Is Burning'' died on May 14 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She, as she preferred to be called, was 53. A woman who answered the teleph
 Rachel Kempson, the matriarch of the Redgrave acting clan and one of the clarion voices of British stage and screen, died on Saturday at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 92. Miss Kempson was perhaps the least known of the Redgraves in the United States. But in Britain her perform
 COOK -- Muriel Muller. A Stamford resident, died Tuesday, May 20 at the Hospice Residence in Stamford. She was 83. She died of natural causes, according to her family. Born December 29, 1919 in Woodhaven, N.Y., she was the daughter of the late Adam Charles and Margaret Dircks Muller. Mrs. C
 FIRKSER--Ann. Devoted wife of the late Ben Firkser. Loving stepmother of Diane Belfer, Gladys Kanner and the late Janet Charlse Leeds. She died peacefully. Private graveside services. >>AD#       
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace. >>AD#       
 KLEMPNER -- Mona (nee Salzman), of Forest Hills, NY, on May 25, 2003, in her 80th year. Beloved wife of Henry. Loving mother of Leon and his wife Laurie. She also leaves three adored granddaughters, Amy, Lisa and Jodi. Born in Poland, Holocaust survivor, she will be missed by all of her fam
 KLINGEL--Jean. Died May 23, peacefully in her sleep, age 89. Formerly of New York City; lived since 1995 with her daughter Dr. Joan Klingel Ray. Memorials may be sent to Silver Key Senior Services, 2250 Bott Avenue, Colorado Springs, CO 80904. >>AD#       
 KOVER--Betty Alpert. 85, of the Bronx, died Sunday, May 25th. She will be missed by Elly and Terry, Andy and Susan, and her three loving grandchildren, Molly, Hillary and David. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, May 27th, 2003, 10:45AM, at Plaza Funeral Chapel, 91st Street and Amste
 PAPPAS--Robyn Alpert. 45. On May 26th, 2003 died peacefully at home in Harrington Park, New Jersey. Beloved wife of Basil, adored mother of Maya Li. Loving daughter to Stan and Irene Alpert, devoted sister and sister-in-law to Barna and Joel Rosen. Robyn was an accomplished television comme
 PELLICANE--Molly T. Died Saturday evening, May 24, 2003. Beloved mother to her four children, Mary, Joe, Kate and Lora (Vincent) Grillo, devoted to her three grandchildren Gina, Conner and Lauren, and to her brothers Richard (Carol) Jones, the late Robert Jones and to her two sisters Ann Cr
 ROSTEN--Bevya (nee Beverly Rosen). Daughter of the late Herschel and Ida Rosen, died on May 24, after a long and valiant struggle. Survived by her sister Miriam Rosen. Deeply mourned by all who knew and loved her. Services Tuesday, May 27, at 11 AM, Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterd
 WINSOR--Kathleen, author of ''Forever Amber'' published in 1944 and several other novels, died at her home in Manhattan on May 26th, 2003. Ms. Winsor was the widow of Washington lawyer, Paul A. Porter, who died in 1975. No services are planned. >>AD#       
 Kathleen Winsor, whose 1944 novel ''Forever Amber,'' detailing the sexual adventures of a young woman in Restoration England, became a model for romantic best sellers to follow, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83. ''Miss Winsor, if she felt so inclined, could justif
 CADWELL--Franchellie Margaret. On May 25, 2003, at her home in New York. One of the first women to own a national advertising agency. Ms. Cadwell was known in the advertising world as ''Frankie''. She was an award-winning copywriter and author who was renowned for changing the way women wer
 CROUTER--Agathe Keliher, of Chestnut Hill, PA, died on May 13, 2003 at Keystone House. Retired school head. She had been diagnosed with bone cancer last December. The daughter of the late Francis T. and Agathe S. Keliher, Mrs. Crouter grew up in Brooklyn, NY, and attended The Packer Collegi
 HOPPIN--Jean Searing, 84, died May 24, 2003 in Summit, NJ. The daughter of the late Hudson Roy and Geraldine Kendrick Searing, she is survived by her husband Charles E. Hoppin, two children, Michael Moore and Meredith Hoppin, and predeceased by her daughter Melinda Moore Pick, and her siste
 KATZNER--Edith. The Officers, Trustees, and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Edith Katzner, a former First Lady of our congregation, and a woman of great dignity and elegance. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to all the members of her loving family. Rabbi G
 PALMER -- Alexandra. We are deeply saddened by the sudden death of our beloved sister. Alex brought great joy and kindness to her family, her West 46th St neighbors and her colleagues at the New York Times. A Memorial Service will be held at St. Clements Church, 423 West 46 Street on June 9
 SIRIS--Florence, 93. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Irwin E. Siris and the late Herbert Mayer, died May 27, 2003 in St. Petersburg, FL. She leaves her devoted family, Carol and Martin Roaman of NYC, and Susan Siris Wexler of Cambridge, MA, and five grandchildren. Funeral private. SIRI
 BONE--Bettianne Rashba Cohen, of Palm Springs, CA, formerly of Woodmere, NY. She is survived by her husband, Robert Bone, children, Dr. Daniel Cohen of Hewlett Harbor, NY, Dr. Amy Rubino of Lido Beach, NY and Jonathan Cohen of Palo Alto, CA. Grandmother of Aaron, Alexandra, Arthur, Emma and
 GREENWALD -- Herb. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the loss of Herb Greenwald generous and loyal friend. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Greenwald family on the loss of a devoted father and grandfat
 MEYER--Helen W. passed away peacefully in her sleep in San Francisco on May 25, 2003 several weeks after a severe stroke at age 92. Helen was born April 16, 1911, the youngest of six children of immigrant parents, Fanny & Frank Wallerstein. After completing studies to become a teacher for e
 NELKIN -- Dorothy. The trustees, faculty, staff, alumni and students of New York University School of Law are saddened by the loss of Professor Dorothy Nelkin. Professor Nelkin served NYU since 1988, both in the law school and in the Dept of Sociology. On behalf of the many law students she
 PESKIN -- Marilyn, died peacefully on May 27, 2003 at the age of 71. Beloved wife of Ira Peskin for 50 years. Cherished mother of Jill Saunders and Jeffrey Peskin, the daughter of the late May and Dave Schlissal and sister to Jerry Schlissal. Also survived by her two grandchildren, Michael 
 SADOSKY--Sylvia (Bobbe) nee Shimel, 91. Beloved mother of Adele Frischling. Loving mother-in-law of Carl. Devoted grandmother of Billy and Amy, Jimmy & Teddy & adoring great-grandmother of Robert and Elizabeth. Originally of Manhattan. Died in Boca Raton, FL on May 27th. She was a feisty an
 SIMON--Marilyn. We mourn the death of our devoted member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of L.I. Paula Winnig, Rabbi Beth Santopolo, Pres. >>AD#       
 Erika Fromm, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Chicago and an expert on the use of hypnosis in therapy, died on Monday at her home in Chicago. She was 93. Dr. Fromm considered hypnosis a valuable analytical tool that, when used by a skilled practitioner, could
 Franchellie Margaret Cadwell, one of the first women to own a national advertising agency and a strong advocate of change in the image of women in advertisements, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was brain cancer, said her friend and financial adviser R
 BRANOWER--Mimi. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi >>AD#       
 CORDELL--Sheila Lynne, on May 27, 2003, 32 years forever young. Beloved daughter of Lana (nee Haney) and Richard. Loving sister of Shawna and Lisa Smith. Cherished granddaughter of Hazel and Daniel. Dear aunt of Zachery Smith. Visiting at Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker Street,
 GOTTLIEB--Eva, of Woodstock and New York City died May 29, 2003, at her Woodstock residence. Daughter of Elizabeth, sister of Thomas. Funeral services, 12 noon, Sunday, at Lasher Funeral Home, Inc., Woodstock, NY. >>AD#       
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim Hankin Barrett and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace.
 NELKIN--Dorothy, 69, The New York University Faculty of Arts and Science mourns the passing of our beloved colleague, Dorothy Nelkin, University Professor and Professor of Sociology and Law. Nelkin was a groundbreaking researcher who examined the interplay among science, technology and soci
 SADOSKY--Sylvia (Bobbe) nee Shimel, 91. Beloved mother of Adele Frischling. Loving mother-in-law of Carl. Devoted grandmother of Billy and Amy, Jimmy & Teddy & adoring great-grandmother of Robert and Elizabeth. Originally of Manhattan. Died in Boca Raton, FL on May 27th. She was a feisty an
 SCHAFFER--Sonya, age 75, of Sun City Center, FL, died May 27, 2003. She was born in Brooklyn, NY in its heyday and spent most of her life in the beautiful home she created in Smithtown, NY. Loving her family and creating a legacy were most important in her life. She was a talented writer wh
 Janet Collins, prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House in the early 1950's and one of a very few black women to become prominent in American classical ballet, died on Wednesday in Fort Worth. She was 86 and lived there. Ms. Collins taught dance, choreographed, performed on B
 Martha Scott, who created the role of the sweet, ethereal Emily in the original Broadway production of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' and was nominated for an Oscar for repeating it in the film version, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 88. Miss Scott's trademark was warm si
 GEOLY--Joan Ellen Flax passed away May 30th after a long illness. Beloved mother of James and Kathryn, mother - in - law of Adam, grandmother of Alex, Tom, Andrew, Cayla, Benjamin and Jack. Sister of Robert, sister in law of Marjorie, aunt of Melissa and Sean and dear friend of Daniel. Serv
 HANKIN-GOLDEN--Lyn. August 2nd, 1957--May 20th, 2003 of complications from anorexia. Daughter of Kathleen and the late Leonard Hankin. Beloved sister of Kim Hankin Barrett and devoted aunt of Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. A bright and funny person devoted to her family, now finally at peace.
 SPECTOR--Ruth. Please see notice listed today under ''Zirinsky.'' SPECTOR -- Ruth Zirinsky. Our heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Ruth's legacy was the example of courage, strength and dignity with which she lived her life. We will always miss her. The Family of Richard W. Zi
