 Ernesta Drinker Ballard, who saved the Philadelphia Flower Show and transformed it from a horticultural beauty show into a spectacular international educational event, died Aug. 11 at the Cathedral Village retirement community in Philadelphia. She was 85 and formerly lived in the Chestnut H
 BROWNSTONE--Cecily. Died peacefully August 30, 2005, at the age of 96, after a long, distinguished career as a food writer. As Associated Press Food Editor, she was one of the most widely distributed food journalists in America.       
 COX--Raleigh Chaffee. In New York City on August 29th. She graduated with a BA in both Math & Economics from Wellesley College in 1957. She came to Wall Street from the National Foreign Trade Council, and joined the Bank of New York in the investment advisory department. Later, she started 
 SCHWARTZ -- Blanche. On August 30, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Loving aunt of Sandra Katz, Pherne Karp, Florence Tanner and Fred Gasthalter. She will be deeply missed by her grandnieces and nephews. Service Thursday, 9:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 SIEGEL--Ruth Fisher. Age 78. Died at home in New York City on August 30, 2005 after a short, fearless battle with lung cancer. She is survived by her daughter Dorian Siegel Held, her son Jeffrey J. Siegel and daughter-in-law Debragh Siegel, grandchildren Isaac Held, Alison and Michael Novar
 Nell I. Mondy, a Cornell biochemist who extolled the nutritional benefits of the potato to consumers worldwide and pushed hard to dispel its reputation as a weighty clump of empty calories, died on Aug. 25 at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 83. The cause was complicati
 BARKIN--Myra. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 LEVY--Frances, on September 1, 2005 at the age of 101, of Somerville, NJ and Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Levy and mother of Marsha and Joel Handel and the late Barbara. She will be missed and remembered by her grandchildren Beth and Armin, Libby and Matt, Marnie an
 PALTER--Harriet R. Passed on September 1, at age 80, after a courageous four-and-ahalf year battle with lung cancer. She is survived by her husband Buddy, after a beautiful life together of 59 years and seven months, and her two sons, Scott and Steven, also her brother and sister-inlaw, Mar
 ALTMAN--Glen G., age 74, died in New York on September 1, 2005. Loving and devoted wife, mother and grandmother, she is survived by daughter Tracy altman Warner, son-in-law Greg Warner, grand - daughters Haley, Amanda and Brooke Warner, step-daughters Virginia Aaron and Patricia Falkenberg 
 ASHER--Norma Hayim. 81, of NYC and Boca Raton, FL. Born Norma Keats and married 48 years to the late Alvin Hayim. Graduated University of Pennsylvania. Survived by her husband of eight years, Leonard Asher of Short Hills, NJ, her brother, Ira Keats of Yardley, PA, three children Stuart Hayi
 BROWNSTONE--Cecily. Died peacefully August 30, 2005, at the age of 96, after a long, distinguished career as a food writer. As Associated Press Food Editor, she was one of the most widely distributed food journalists in America.       
 FELL--Judith. On August 29, 2005 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Barry Okun, daughter of Red and the late Babs Fell, sister of David (Amy) and Happy (Adair) Fell, aunt of Lauren and Sarah Fell. Friend to too many to name. We will miss Judy's wit, intelligence, and fearless honesty. Me
 FINN--Hetty Wells. Born April 13, 1912, Rockville Centre, NY to Jeanette Robinson Wells and Pierson L. Wells, died August 27, 2005, Ashland, Oregon. Married Dr. Frederick W. Finn 1935. They had four children, five grand children and seven great grandchildren. She is survived by her daughter
 FISHKIN--Ruth. Died on August 30, 2005, age 97. Preceeded in death by her husband Sidney L. Beloved mother of Arthur F. and wife Jane Paul. Grandmother of Paul A.S. and wife LaDona, Charles A. and wife Suzanne Tinley, James A. and Joel A. and wife Luella Bangura. Great grandmother to Henry 
 GARFIELD--Frances. Died August 29 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Irving William Garfield. Mother of Nina Joan (Alfred) Mattikow of Greenwich, CT, Alan (Marion) Garfield of Manhattan and Southampton and Ronald (Lily) Garfield of Aspen, Colorado. Grandmother of James and April Mattikow, 
 GOODMAN--Naomi Ascher. Activist, poet and friend to many, died suddenly while swimming near her house in East Hampton, NY. Born August 26, 1920, she was a lifelong pacifist. Ms. Goodman was the co-author of ''The Good Book Cookbook,'' coeditor of ''The Challenge of Shalom.'' She was married
 LEVY--Frances, on September 1, 2005 at the age of 101, of Somerville, NJ and Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Levy and mother of Marsha and Joel Handel and the late Barbara. She will be missed and remembered by her grandchildren Beth and Armin, Libby and Matt, Marnie an
 SIEGEL--Solomon (Sonny). On September 2, 2005. Loving husband of the late Anita. Beloved father of Bonnie and her partner Linda, Wendy and Howard Greenberg. Cherished grandpa of Ashley Greenberg. Funeral services Sunday, 10 am, at Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel (Queens Blvd at 76th Rd
 WANTZ--Diana D. The Board of Directors of 950 Park Avenue notes with sadness the death of Diana D. Wantz on August 26th. A longtime resident and Board member, she will be missed for her good judgment, business acumen, and sense of style. Our thoughts are with her daughter Diana, and her son
 BLAKEMAN--Edith Hughes. Died peacefully on September 3, 2005, at Long Beach Memorial Center. She adored, and was adored by, Royal, her devoted husband for over 60 years, her caring daughter Carol, who was born at Long Beach Medical Center, her loving granddaughter Jamie Forrest, whose succe
 HUNTER -- Karen (nee Spilke). Died instantly on September 2, 2005 when the plane she was piloting crashed near Teterboro Airport. Dr. Hunter, a clinical psychologist, had a successful practice in Brooklyn Heights. She was a graduate of the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, Antioch College and 
 LEVITAN - Geordie. Died peacefully September, 3, 2005, surrounded by her family after a long, courageous battle with cancer. She was the beloved daughter of George and Florence Levitan, mother of Brooke, partner of Warren and sister of Carol, Barbara and Joanne. She was a friend to too many
 NEWHOUSE -- Helaine L. Died peacefully, at home, on September 3, 2005. Wife of the late Ross M. Newhouse. Mother of Jeff, Jill and John. Grandmother of Ross P. and Karly Newhouse and Alex Denzler. Companion of Samuel L. Apter for over a quarter of a century. Motherin-law of Barbara Newhouse
 PALTER--Harriet R. June 1, 1925-September 1, 2005. Last night, in my arms, you left us to begin a new journey. There never was another like you. 59 years and 7 months we lived, worked and loved together. You were always there for me and I for you. God love you and protect you till eternity.
 Ruth Levine Sussman, an acting New York State Supreme Court justice who organized and headed the state system's first Integrated Domestic Violence Court, in the Bronx, died on Aug. 26 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, according
 ALTMAN--Glen G., age 74, died in New York on September 1, 2005. Loving and devoted wife, mother and grandmother, she is survived by daughter Tracy altman Warner, son-in-law Greg Warner, grand - daughters Haley, Amanda and Brooke Warner, step-daughters Virginia Aaron and Patricia Falkenberg 
 COHEN--Herb. Always in our hearts. Your loving sister Judy, her husband Joe and son Paul       
 JAMES--Helen Chenoweth. May 8, 1909--August 28, 2005. Loving wife of the late Parker Kent James. Cherished mother of Shirley (Pete) Longshore and Patricia James. Beloved grandmother of Patricia (Chad), James, Irene and Kathryn. An inspiration to her family and many friends, she lives on in 
 JORDAN--Janith, age 62, on August 24, 2005. Metropolitan College of New York and its Board of Trustees mourn the passing of its Vice President and longtime colleague, Janith Jordan. She was one of the pioneers of the College and worked closely with our founder, Audrey Cohen, on the developm
 KARSCH--Phyllis, on September 3 at 62. Devoted daughter of the late Sally and Max Sloan. Sister of the late Marilyn Rose. Proud mother of Roxanne (Dean) Palin and Michael (Erica) Karsch. Adoring grandmother of Amanda, Ben, Danielle, and Samuel. She will be sadly missed and lovingly remember
 MacNAIR--Susan. 1939-2005 The soul of generosity, kindness and warmth, Susan MacNair died on August 31, 2005 after an extended illness. Sue spent most of her adult life in the theatre and film worlds, working closely with such giants as Mike Nichols, Nora Ephron, Edward Vilella, Lauren Baca
 WEISS--Renee Abikzir. Renee Abikzir Weiss was born March 30, 1928 in Alexandria, Egypt to Bechor Abikzir and Jeanne Charbit. She came to the U.S. in 1955. She married Samuel Weiss, the owner of Samuel Weiss & Company (NYC), in 1965. After Samuel passed away, Renee continued to operate SW&C 
 BROOKS--Virginia Guard, 89, died August 30 after a brief illness. She was a lifelong resident of Pelham. A memorial service will be held September 17 at The Huguenot Memorial Chapel at 1:00PM.       
 COHEN--Herb. Always in our hearts. Your loving sister Judy, her husband Joe and son Paul       
 ELIEL--Lisa S. (DuBose) has left us for a better party, but we don't think the hors d'oeuvres there will be nearly as good as her own. Her two children, Brooke and Hunter, loving husband of 14 years, Peter, brother, John, and cuddly confidant, Bear, regret they are unable to attend (and, be
 KARSCH--Phyllis, on September 3 at 62. Devoted daughter of the late Sally and Max Sloan. Sister of the late Marilyn Rose. Proud mother of Roxanne (Dean) Palin and Michael (Erica) Karsch. Adoring grandmother of Amanda, Ben, Danielle, and Samuel. She will be sadly missed and lovingly remember
 LEVITAN -- Geordie. The Board of Directors of 140 East 28th Street Owners Corp. expresses its sympathy to the family of longtime shareholder, Board member and Board president, Geordie Levitan. Geordie's intel ligence, leadership and compassion were an inspiration to all who knew her. Her co
 SWIFT--Ruth. The Board and members of Reuth are deeply saddened by the death of our dear, longtime friend, Ruth Swift. Her refined and gentle manner coupled with her passionate support of our cause and activities will be sorely missed. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion 
 EDELSTEIN--Mildred. The employees of Dexter Chemical LLC are deeply saddened by the death of Mildred Edelstein. She was associated with the company for more than fifty (50) years. She will be missed.       
 Dr. Margot S. Kruskall, a Harvard hematologist and an expert on blood banks who was an early advocate for patients' donations of their own blood before surgery, a practice propelled by the spread of AIDS in the 1980's, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Dover, Mass. She was 56. The cause was ov
 BROOKS--Virginia Guard, 89, died August 30 after a brief illness. She was a lifelong resident of Pelham. A memorial service will be held September 17 at The Huguenot Memorial Chapel at 1:00PM.       
 KAMINSKI--Eda, born in Zavoya, Poland. She survived the brutal concentration camps of Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen. Her life in America was marked by he devotion to her family and her commitment to many charitable organizations, among them Bikur Cholim, Emunah, Krakow Society and Young Israe
 LOBELL--Helen S. Loving wife of Jack. Beloved mother of Charles and Donna Lobell, Richard and Nancy Lobell, Marilyn & Richard Trownsell, devoted grandmother of six and beloved great grandmother of six. She will always be loved and never forgotten.       
 SWIFT--Rebbetzin Ruth. Congregation Ahavath Torah deeply mourns the loss of our beloved Rebbetzin Ruth Swift. For decades, Rebbetzin Swift stood by the side of her esteemed husband, the late Rabbi Isaac Swift, of blessed memory, as together they built our community. During the years followi
 YOUNG--Patricia Burrage. Of New York City, September 3, 2005. Devoted mother of Missy Rosengarten of Carmel, N.Y., Julie O'Connor of Swampscott, MA., Steven Young of Rutland, VT. and Chris Young of Carmel, N.Y. Sister to June Jenkins and Anne Alford, both of Fort Worth, Texas; former wife o
 Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del. She was 54 and lived in Alexa
 BROOKS--Virginia Guard, 89, died August 30 after a brief illness. She was a lifelong resident of Pelham. A memorial service will be held September 17 at The Huguenot Memorial Chapel at 1:00PM.       
 FELDMAN -- Sylvia Wohl. Dearly loved wife, sister, mother, grandmother, aunt and friend passed away peacefully on September 7, 2005. She will be sorely missed and forever loved by her late husband, Milton; brother, Bernie Wohl; her sons, Leslie and Jeffrey; daughter-in-law, Lori; grandchild
 LACK -- Margery Harrison. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. Devoted mother of Jo Ann (Ty) Hansen and Penny Benisch. Adored grandmother of Danielle Stevenson, Suzanne (Mitch) Berg, Claus Hansen, Michael Benisch and Caryn Benisch. Great grandmother of Rachel and Bryan. Dear sister-in-law of T
 ROSEN--Ruth (nee Jacobson), died peacefully at home in Tamarac, Florida on Wednesday, September 7, 2005 at age 95. The beloved wife of the late Harry Rosen, founder of Junior's Restaurant in Brooklyn, New York; devoted and loving mother of Marvin & Bonny Rosen, Marcia & Harold Cohen; loving
 YOUNG--Patricia Burrage. Of New York City, September 3, 2005. Devoted mother of Missy Rosengarten of Carmel, N.Y., Julie O'Connor of Swampscott, MA., Steven Young of Rutland, VT. and Chris Young of Carmel, N.Y. Sister to June Jenkins and Anne Alford, both of Fort Worth, Texas; former wife o
 BERNSTEIN--Florence, died September 7. For many years Florence was the Public Relations Coordinator at The New York Philharmonic, and previously worked as a personal assistant to a number of Hollywood celebrities, including Charles Bronson and Shirley MacLaine. All of her Kaufman family cou
 EDELSTEIN--Mildred. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Mildred Edelstein, a long-standing American Friend known for her enduring dedication to Israel and its people. Along with her late husband, Sidney, Mildred's generous ac
 BRINKERHOFF -- Lillian Westaway. Beloved by her boys, their boys, and Buzz. Swiss Bodysurfing Team       
 DANUFF--Patricia. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 FELDMAN -- Sylvia Wohl. Dearly loved wife, sister, mother, grandmother, aunt and friend passed away peacefully on September 7, 2005. She will be sorely missed and forever loved by her late husband, Milton; brother, Bernie Wohl; her sons, Leslie and Jeffrey; daughter-in-law, Lori; grandchild
 PERAZA -- Margaret Mul hern, of Fort Myers Beach, Florida, died Thursday, September 8. She was born April 29, 1910, in County Mayo, Ireland. At the tender age of 16 she emigrated to America and lived in New York City for 65 years. In 1991 she moved to Florida. She had a marvelous love of li
 RODMAN--Pearl (nee Penner). On September 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Salo Rodman, cherished mother of Carol and Elizabeth. Devoted sister of the late Saul and Samuel Penner, and Tillie Barnett. The world is a colder place without her. Service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, N.Y. Sunda
 ROSEN--Ruth (nee Jacobson), died peacefully at home in Tamarac, Florida. on Wednesday, September 7, 2005 at the age 95. The beloved wife of the late Harry Rosen, founder of Junior's Restaurant in Bklyn, NY. Devoted and loving mother of Marvin (Bonny) Rosen and Marcia (Harold) Cohen; cherish
 RUSSEL--Myra Teicher. Died September 7th of a heart attack. She was two months shy of her 85th birthday. She is survived by her three children, Marjorie, David and Danny, their spouses, Peter, Luba and Keiko, six grandchildren to whom she was utterly devoted, Alexander, Byron, Constantine, 
 CACCHIONE--Lonni, on September 6, 2005. Survived by husband Bernie, daughter Tamara. Memorial celebration October 2, Congregation Mt. Sinai, Brooklyn, 718-875-9124 $(6$)CACCHIONE -- Lonni. New York Therapeutic Communities Inc. mourn the passing of our longtime Board Member, Lonni Cacchione 
 DANUFF - Patricia. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Patricia Danuff. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her husband and entire family.       
 DRUM--Margaret. September 7, 2005. Beloved sister of Bernadette Drum & Frances Riley and her husband George. Loving aunt of Keith Riley, Christopher Riley and Regine Drum. Memorial service Saturday, October 1, 2005, 11:15 AM, at the Chapel of St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Ave at 51 St. Con
 FALK--Louise. On September 8, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of Mark and Linda. She will be missed. Service Monday 10:00 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FELDMAN -- Sylvia Wohl. Dearly loved wife, sister, mother, grandmother, aunt and friend passed away peacefully on September 7, 2005. She will be sorely missed and forever loved by her late husband, Milton; brother, Bernie Wohl; her sons, Leslie and Jeffrey; daughter-in-law, Lori; grandchild
 GARFUNKEL--Leonore, 84, died September 8th, 2005 after a brief illness. Beloved sister of the recently deceased Benjamin Garfunkel. Devoted aunt of Michael Garfunkel, Julie Spencer and Marjorie Derven and sister-in-law of Helene Garfunkel. She was an assistant principal at I.S. 44 in Manhat
 KOCH--Susan Dryfoos. Cherished mother of Peggy Koch Palmer and her husband Briggs S. Palmer Jr., and Kathy Koch Willens and her husband Randall D. Willens, passed away on September 9, 2005, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Adored by many, Susan knew how to be a true friend. S
 LACK--Margery. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Margery Lack, and extend our deepest sympathy to her children JoAnn & Penny, as well as their families. Philip Shapiro, President Joy Leavitt Women's Group Pres
 LIDDELL -- Jane Hawkes. Died July 20, 2005 in New York, aged 97. Widow of the late Donald M. Liddell, she is survived by her children, D. Roger B. and Florence W. Liddell, and Jane Liddell Bass of New York, and four grandchildren. Memorial service Friday, September 16 at noon, St. James Chu
 PERAZA -- Margaret Mul hern, of Fort Myers Beach, Florida, died Thursday, September 8. She was born April 29, 1910, in County Mayo, Ireland. At the tender age of 16 she emigrated to America and lived in New York City for 65 years. In 1991 she moved to Florida. She had a marvelous love of li
 ROSEN--Ruth (nee Jacobson), died peacefully at home in Tamarac, Florida. on Wednesday, September 7, 2005 at the age 95. The beloved wife of the late Harry Rosen, founder of Junior's Restaurant in Bklyn, NY. Devoted and loving mother of Marvin (Bonny) Rosen and Marcia (Harold) Cohen; cherish
 RUSSEL--Myra Teicher. Died September 7th of a heart attack. She was two months shy of her 85th birthday. She is survived by her three children, Marjorie, David and Danny, their spouses, Peter, Luba and Keiko, six grandchildren to whom she was utterly devoted, Alexander, Byron, Constantine, 
 TRAUTMAN--Andrea Dominique Hohlwein, died suddenly at age 44 on September 6, 2005. Beloved wife of Gregory. Devoted mother of Emily Helen, Natalie Siena and Juliet Gabriella. Loving daughter of Hans and Kathryn Hohlwein. Beloved sister of Reinhard Hohlwein and Laura Hohlwein. She received h
 BERNSTEIN--Florence, died September 7. For many years Florence was the Public Relations Coordinator at The New York Philharmonic, and previously worked as a personal assistant to a number of Hollywood celebrities, including Charles Bronson and Shirley MacLaine. All of her Kaufman family cou
 MATTHEWS--Judy. A woman for all seasons. She did it all. You are in our hearts forever. Love always, Steve, Howard, Sandy, Dave, Juliette and Little Matty       
 ELIEL--Lisa S. (DuBose) has left us for a better party, but we don't think the hors d'oeuvres there will be nearly as good as her own. Her two children, Brooke and Hunter, loving husband of 14 years, Peter, brother, John, and cuddly confidant, Bear, regret they are unable to attend (and, be
 FALK--Louise. On September 8, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of Mark and Linda. She will be missed. Service Monday 10:00 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GARBER - Sherry. Darling wife, sister, mommy, Oma. You are the ''iconic'' eshet chayil. A woman who was born with a selfless devotion to every aspect of her family's lives. You didn't have to show it by ''doing'' it. Your very ''being'' sufficed. The many gifts you had--comedy, drama, culin
 KANTOR - Ruth. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Dr. Irwin Kantor, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z
 ZONINO--Carolyn Johnson. On September 10, age 76. Beloved wife of the late James Zonino. Cherished mother of Carolyn Ann, Lisa and Janie. Devoted grandmother to James, Andrew and Thomas. Viewing is private. A Memorial service will be held on Tuesday, at 11 am, in the Irvington Presbyterian 
 DUCAS--Georgiana de Ropp, native of San Francisco and member of the Pillsbury family as well as a long time resident of Saratoga Springs, NY, passed away very peacefully last Friday, 9 September, one month exactly before her 82nd birthday. Georgie will be greatly missed by her many friends 
 FALES--Katharine Ladd, on September 9, 2005, of Bedminster, NJ. Wife of Haliburton Fales. Mother of Nancy Fales Garrett of Delhi, NY and NY, NY, Hal Fales of Leeds, Mass, Priscilla Fales of Cambridge, Mass, Lucy Fales Evans of Denver, CO, and William E.L. Fales of Carbondale, CO. Sister of 
 GARBER - Sherry. Darling wife, sister, mommy, Oma. You are the ''iconic'' eshet chayil. A woman who was born with a selfless devotion to every aspect of her family's lives. You didn't have to show it by ''doing'' it. Your very ''being'' sufficed. The many gifts you had--comedy, drama, culin
 KOCH--Susan D. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sadness the death of Susan Koch. An extremely dedicated agency trustee, Sue was a member of the Executive Committee and Budget and Finance Committee, Chair of the Fami
 McBRIDE--Mary ''Kay'' (nee O'Connor). Age 93, of Franklin Lakes, Westhampton Beach, New York and Boynton Beach, Florida, died peacefully on September 10, 2005. She was born in New York City on August 1, 1912. She was the widow of the late J. Nevins McBride. Mrs. McBride graduated from Kenwo
 NATHAN--Henriette B. Died on September 9, 2005. She was the wife of the late Seymour L. Nathan. She was an accomplished interior designer and active in the design and historic preservation communities. She is survived by her nieces, nephews and cousins. She was a guide and inspiration to th
 TRAUTMAN--Andrea Dominique Hohlwein, died suddenly at age 44 on September 6, 2005. Beloved wife of Gregory. Devoted mother of Emily Helen, Natalie Siena and Juliet Gabriella. Loving daughter of Hans and Kathryn Hohlwein. Beloved sister of Reinhard Hohlwein and Laura Hohlwein. She received h
 TULLY--Mary Ann. Of Port Washington passed away the morning of Monday, September 12, 2005 surrounded by her loving family. 70 years young and full of life she was a long serving board member and fundraiser for Long Island Hospice. Starting as a volunteer caregiver when hospice could only se
 DUCAS--Georgiana de Ropp. The Chase Wildlife Foundation mourns the passing of our beloved Board Member, Georgie Ducas. For fifteen years her love of nature, friendship and spirit was an inspiration to all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to her entire family. Lynn Chase, Chairman Mar
 EFROS--Romaine. Born December 6, 1911. Passed away on September 12, 2005. Beloved aunt of Martin and Stephen Feldman and the late Norbert Efros. Dear great aunt of David, Alan, Jeffrey and Michelle and great great aunt of Nathan Lawrence. Services Thursday 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76t
 FALES--Katharine Ladd. The Board of Directors, Clinical and Administrative Staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Katharine Fales, a beloved Director for 25 years and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health services. Her interest in patient care imp
 KRAMER--Barbara Ann. On September 12, 2005. Loving sister of the late Diane Schlachter. Survived by her brother - in - law Leonard Schlachter, her niece Heather and nephew Jordan, and many cousins. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, at Congregation Shaaray Tefila, Second Ave at East 79 Street.      
 LICHT--Freda, 88, loving mother passed away Sept. 10, 2005 in Los Angeles. She is survived by her son, Eliot (Reiko) in Encino, CA and her son Lloyd, Austin, TX. Services are September 15 at 10:30AM, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, Queens. 718896-9000. Graveside services follow at Beth David C
 NASH--Nancy Thouron. Died at her home in Morristown, New Jersey on Sunday, September 11, 2005. She was 70. The cause was brain cancer. She was born in Lynchburg, Virginia, grew up in Wilmington, Delaware, resided for several years in New York City and in Brussels, Belgium and lived in Morri
 NATHAN -- Henriette. ELF mourns the death and honors the memory of our beloved colleague, who was an active committee and chapter member of ASID until a few weeks before her death at the age of 91. Contributions may be made to ELF, 1040 First Ave., Box 324, New York, NY 10022. Education Leg
 SCHINDLER--Franyo (Marga V.) of Manhattan, died peacefully at home on Monday, September 12. A painter who grew up in Hamburg, Germany, and fled to New York in 1938 where she met her late husband, the art collector, Gustave Schindler, she is survived by her two daughters, Vivian Teich and Ni
 TULLY--Mary Ann. Of Port Washington passed away the morning of Monday, September 12, 2005 surrounded by her loving family. 70 years young and full of life she was a long serving board member and fundraiser for Long Island Hospice. Starting as a volunteer caregiver when hospice could only se
 ZWEIG--Harriet. On September 11, heart and soul of husband Sol, married for 59 years. Beloved mother to Peter and his wife Linda (who became a daughter). She was exceptionally proud of her lovely accomplished granddaughters Julie and Lea. As a teacher in New York for 35 years she was unbeli
 CHECKANOVER--Belle J. Passed away on September 13, 2005, at age 95. A very independent woman, a gentle woman, she led a unique life and was ahead of her time in many ways. A kind and generous soul, she will be missed. Her Loving Family       
 EFROS--Romaine. The Officers, National Board of Directors, professional staff and Chapter Members of American Friends of Magen David Adom-ARMDI note with deep sadness the passing of Romaine Efros, a generous and dedicated member of the Emanuel Cellar Chapter of ARMDI for more than 40 years.
 FERRIN--Ilene (nee Wolberg). Loving, devoted and adored wife of David, sharing 35 years of marriage and sharing one another's hearts. Sister-in-law of Marie Victor and Norma Fernandez. Loving daughter of Sylvia and Henry (deceased), and sister of Phil (deceased). Aunt to Richard and Jeffrey
 HERIZA--Suzanne Mary. May 3, 1962--September 14, 2005. A long time resident of New York City and born and raised in Denver, CO, Suzanne passed away after a long fight with breast cancer at her family home in Denver surrounded by friends and family. Survived by her loving family: mother, Sha
 KRISTIN--Karen (aka Karen A. Johnson). Of New York City. Dancer/choreographer/ teacher. Passed away at home on September 5, 2005. She is survived by mother Phyllis, brothers Ted and Bob, and sister Mary Kay. She will be greatly missed by family, extended family and friends. Memorial service
 OSTOW--Miriam Furst. 85, September 14, 2005. Wife of Mortimer, mother of Robin, Jerry, Abigail and Rachel. Mother-in-law of Carmen, Arthur and Brian. Grandmother of Natascha, Rachel, Todd, Micol, Naomi, Joseph, David, Nurit, Sarah, Ilana, Micah and Hannah. Associate Director of Conservation
 RICE--Aviva. We remember Aviva with lots of love and admiration and send big hugs to her wonderful Izzy and talented Ron. Joan and Oliver Gayley Susan and Bart Ferris       
 SCHINDLER--Franyo (Marga V.), of Manhattan, died peacefully at home on Monday, September 12. A painter who grew up in Hamburg, Germany, and fled to New York in 1938, where she met her late husband, the art collector Gustave Schindler. She is survived by her two daughters, Vivian Teich and N
 ZWEIG--Harriet. On September 11, heart and soul of husband Sol, married for 59 years. Beloved mother to Peter and his wife Linda (who became a daughter). She was exceptionally proud of her lovely accomplished granddaughters Julie and Lea. As a teacher in New York for 35 years she was unbeli
 BARRELL--Edythe, 90, died on Saturday September 10. She was born December 11, 1914 in New York City, NY. Surviving relatives are her son Eric, daughter-in-law Sheree, daughter Sandra; sister Lillian Bader; grandchildren Sirena & Olivia Barrell, Jason Strougo; great grandchildren Jack & Kyle
 BLUM--Lillian L. Age 93, Fairfield, CT, on September 15, 2005. Predeceased by husband Benjamin, Lillian is survived by her children Marian & Sheldon Tabak, Leonard & Bonnie Blum, Susan K. Blum, grandchildren: Robert, Jeffrey & Steven Tabak, Jennifer & Mike Schiff, Julie Blum, Lauren & Jeff 
 FRIEDLAND--Barbara (nee Levine). Of New Jersey. Loving wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Ken and Jim, and mother-in-law of Amy and Lori. Beloved Nana of Zach, Alex, Matt, Nick and Olivia. Barbara had an incredible zest for life and an amazing devotion to her family and friends. Here's lookin
 KEMPSTER--Lorraine (Edelstein). Died peacefully after a brief illness in Norwalk, CT on September 10th surrounded by her family. She is survived by her three bereft children, Michael Kempster (Linda) of Andover, MA, Barbara Zerzan (Tony Velez) of Brooklyn, NY, Victor Kempster (Katterli) of 
 KLEEMAN--Elaine J. Of 10 Park Avenue, passed away on August 8, 2005, after a long illness. Elaine was the President of Kleeman Associates, a Founding Member of Les Dames d'Escoffier, and author. She is remembered by many friends and relatives, most notably her two cousins, Mrs. Jeanne McGra
 KUPPERSMITH--Grace, 96 years old, died on September 14, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Devoted mother of Myrna and Donald Sigman and Judi Kuppersmith. Cherished grandmother of Lauren Sigman and David and Robin Sigman and the late Anya Kuppersmith. Dearest sister of Frances Schwartz 
 GRAYSON--Julie. On September 16, 2005. Beloved wife of the late David. Cherished mother of Paul, Martha and Roger and dear mother-inlaw of Li Rong, Allan & Linda. Devoted grandmother of Stephanie and Dylan. Loving aunt. Services Sunday September 18, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Stree
 KEMPSTER--Lorraine (Edelstein). Died peacefully after a brief illness in Norwalk, CT on September 10th surrounded by her family. She is survived by her three bereft children, Michael Kempster (Linda) of Andover, MA, Barbara Zerzan (Tony Velez) of Brooklyn, NY, Victor Kempster (Katterli) of 
 KLEEMAN--Elaine J. Of 10 Park Avenue, passed away on August 8, 2005, after a long illness. Elaine was the President of Kleeman Associates, a Founding Member of Les Dames d'Escoffier, and author. She is remembered by many friends and relatives, most notably her two cousins, Mrs. Jeanne McGra
 LASKEY--Jane. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member Jane Laskey. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest sympathy to her entire family. Earle Yaffa, President Dale Winston, Secretary      
 OSTOW--Miriam. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Miriam Ostow, a member of our Albert A. List College of Jewish Studies Board of Overseers. A graduate of JTS and Columbia University, where she served as Associate Director of the Eisenhower Center for the Conserva
 WARREN -- Rosalind Ames died peacefully in her home surrounded by family and friends after a courageous battle against cancer. She is survived by beloved husband Eugene, loving daughters Shawn Crowley and Jennifer Medwin, caring sons-in-law Steve Medwin and Bill Crowley, cherished grandchil
 WISELY--Sister Bernadette de Lourdes, O. Carm (''Mother Bernadette''). Died on September 13, 2005 at Teresian House in Albany, NY. Joining the Carmelite Sisters for the Aged and Infirm when the Community was only in its infancy, Mother Bernadette quickly became the trusted assistant to the 
 ALEXANDER--''Georgie'' With deepest sorrow we announce the loss of our beloved Georgie on August 29, born September 18, 1918. Daughter of John and Sadye Gelernter. A true New Yorker, her life was filled with love of the arts which she inspired in everyone whose life she touched. Graduate of
 ARGAND -- Annabelle Rod man. Annabelle Rodman Argand, born in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and later residing in Maplewood, NJ, Jerusalem, Israel and Madison, WI, died Saturday, September 3, in Madison. She was 90 years old. Since 1945 a prominent presence in Hadassah and National Women's League,
 BROWN--Mary Duer. 74, landscape watercolorist died September 14, 2005 at her home in Bethesda, MD. after a long battle with breast cancer. Mrs. Brown was a native of New York City and Middleburg, VA. She was a graduate of the Foxcroft School, Middleburg, VA and The School of the Museum of F
 CLANCY--Carole Marie. 62, of San Jose, California died on September 5 at Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, CA. after a long battle with breast cancer. Ms. Clancy, a broadcast and newspaper journalist, was an Executive Producer for NBC TV, shaping the initial ''Live At Five'' tel
 HOLBROOK--Lee S., 40, of Yarmouth, ME died suddenly Saturday September 3, 2005. The beloved daughter of Holly G. Holbrook of Yarmouth and David D. Holbrook of NYC. Lee was born March 24, 1965 in Mount Kisco, NY. Lee graduated from Millbrook School in Millbrook, NY and went on to Curry Colle
 JAPKA--Joseph. On Sunday, September 11. Of Lakewood, NJ, formerly of Sheepshead Bay. Graduate of Polytechnical Institute, Brooklyn, Class of 1954. Husband, Father, Grandfather, Great Grandfather. ''You fought your battle with valor and showed us the way. Your example will be with us forever
 McGLINCHEY--Anne, formerly of Bay Ridge, died September 12, in Farmington Hills, MI. She worked as a victims advocate and was Director of Manhattan Court Dispute Referral Center. Make donations to NYC Zonta Club.       
 MONTAGUE--Silvya. 89, died September 16, 2005. She is survived by her two daughters, her granddaughter and two great-grandsons. Funeral service will be held on Sunday, September 18, at 10 am, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn.       
 WARREN -- Rosalind Ames died peacefully in her home surrounded by family and friends after a courageous battle against cancer. She is survived by beloved husband Eugene, loving daughters Shawn Crowley and Jennifer Medwin, caring sons-in-law Steve Medwin and Bill Crowley, cherished grandchil
 WATMAN--Pearl. Zabar's & the Zabar family mourn the passing of our much loved cousin and former Controller, Pearl Watman for her many years of hard work and dedication. She was truly a unique individual and words cannot describe how much she will be missed. Our hearts go out to her daughter
 MICH--Isabella Taves. Born September 20, 1905, Lincoln, Nebraska; died June 25, 2005, New York, NY. Tuesday would have been her 100th birthday. B.S. 1926, Northwestern University, summa cum laude, and Phi Beta Kappa. She became a journalist and then wrote for Colliers, Cosmopolitan, McCall'
 CLANCY--Carole Marie. 62, of San Jose, California died on September 5 at Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, CA. after a long battle with breast cancer. Ms. Clancy, a broadcast and newspaper journalist, was an Executive Producer for NBC TV, shaping the initial ''Live At Five'' tel
 KATZ--Betty Goldfarb. Of NYC, NY passed away peacefully on Monday the 12th, 2005 surrounded by her children. Beloved wife, loving mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Beloved sister. Services were held Tuesday. Information: ''Gutterman Musicant'' 800-522-0588.       
 KEMPSTER--Lorraine (Edelstein). Died peacefully after a brief illness in Norwalk, CT on September 10th surrounded by her family. She is survived by her three bereft children, Michael Kempster (Linda) of Andover, MA, Barbara Zerzan (Tony Velez) of Brooklyn, NY, Victor Kempster (Katterli) of 
 MILLER--Ida Peiken. Formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, and Lake Worth, FL, recently of Huntington Beach, CA, died Sunday, at 94. Services Tuesday, Boynton Beach, FL, Sinai Memorial Chapel. Her husband, Henry J. Miller died in Florida two years ago. She leaves behind two children, Mrs. Susan 
 MONTAGUE--Silvya. 89, died September 16, 2005. She is survived by her two daughters, her granddaughter and two great-grandsons. Funeral service will be held on Sunday, September 18, at 10 am, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn.       
 NAIDICH--Rose Bitko. Died September 14, 2005, age 90. Beloved wife of the late James Naidich, sister of Evelyn Rubinowitz, devoted mother of doctors James B. (Joy) and Thomas P. (Michele) Naidich, adored grandmother of Michelle, Stephen, Nathaniel and Sandra Naidich, great grandmother of Sc
 PARKER--Toni Trent. Author who dedicated herself to encouraging the publication and distribution of quality books for minority children, died peacefully at home, Friday. Parker helped create a series of widely acclaimed guides to books for minority students and a not-for-profit organization
 SAGER--Dorothy. On September 17, 2005. Beloved and loving wife of 64 years of Irving. Adoring mother of Tony and cherished grandmother of Jessica and Diana. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory to UJA Fund for Hurricane Katrina Victims would be appreciated.       
 STOLITZKY--Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel Stolitzky. Cherished mother of Nancy Sobel Chalkin and Lois Sabbah, dear mother-in-law of Richard and Roger. Devoted grandmother of Lindsay, Candice and Tracy. The memory of Ruth, her strength, her courage will forever live on in our hearts.
 WARREN--Roz. Your leaving has created a void which can never be filled. I shall forever miss the sound of your voice, your great laugh and your sense of humor. You have two beautiful daughters, as I have, which we joked about, you saying you followed me in doing this. You possessed the ulti
 WEINRIB--Sidney. On Friday, September 16, 2005, of McLean, VA, longtime resident of Roslyn, NY. Sidney was a pioneer in the optical retail industry and former president and CEO of Sterling Optical. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Weinrib; father of Donna Acker and her husband, Larry, Jeri 
 STEIN-KOHLER--Maxine F. 71, on September 17, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Stein-Kohler, loving sister of Gloria Kaplan, caring aunt of Richard and Robin Kaplan, and devoted and cherished friend to many who will miss her dearly. Funeral service Monday, September 19, at 1 pm, Plaza M
 Ruth Farbman, an aide to Mayor Robert F. Wagner who was prominent in New York City civic affairs during the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 2 in Manhattan. She was 92. Ms. Farbman's daughter-in-law, Marie Farbman, confirmed the death. During the Wagner administration, 1954-65
 Toni Trent Parker, an author who helped advance the cause of books featuring African-American children, died on Thursday at her home in Stamford, Conn. She was 58. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. To increase the visibility of black children in children's books,
 Honey Bruce Friedman, a former nightclub entertainer who in 2003 helped win a posthumous pardon for her ex-husband, the comedian Lenny Bruce, on a 39-year-old obscenity conviction, died on Sept. 12 at a hospital in Honolulu. She was 78 and a Honolulu resident. The cause was complica
 FELDMAN - Sandra. Died September 19 after a courageous battle against breast cancer. Beloved wife of Arthur Barnes, sister of Larry Abramowitz and Helen Berliner, stepmother to David and Donna Marie Barnes, and grandmother to Alex and Tatum Barnes. She was also our leader, mentor, colleague
 MORADEI--Rose (Clara), 87, of Bank Street, NY, died September 3rd in Calvary Hospital. Born in Swartswood, NJ, she was the daughter of the late John and Maria (Negro) Clara. She graduated from Newton High School, Newton, NJ in 1937 and was Office Manager for Dr. John Marshall Hoag, in New Y
 SAGER--Dorothy. On September 17, 2005. Beloved and loving wife of 64 years of Irving. Adoring mother of Tony and cherished grandmother of Jessica and Diana. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory to UJA Fund for Hurricane Katrina Victims would be appreciated. $(6
 STOLITZKY--Ruth. Beloved mother of Nancy and Richard Chalkin. Beloved grandmother of Lindsay Sobel. We loved her and she'll always be in our hearts. As time passes on, all of our love, Susan, Jeffrey, Bara, Alex and Lacey $(6$)STOLITZKY--Ruth. Beloved mother of Nancy, grandmother of
 BLADSTROM--Margaret E., 70. Beloved mother of Evalyn, sister of Tom and Edward Manion. August 26th, after a courageous battle with lung cancer. We will miss her. Memorial All Souls Unitarian Church, Manhattan, 6PM, September 23rd. Donations to Planned Parenthood.       
 WISELY--Sister Bernadette de Lourdes, O. Carm. (''Mother Bernadette''). The Board of Directors, staff, volunteers and supporters of the Catholic Health Care System of the Archdiocese of New York (CHCS) mourn the death of Mother Bernadette, who inspired the Carmelite Sisters of the Aged and 
 Sandra Feldman, the blunt-spoken former president of the American Federation of Teachers and its local in New York, who emerged from the shadow of her mentor, Albert Shanker, to become a deft and intimidating labor powerhouse on her own, died Sunday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 6
 ALLEN--Dorothy Curran. Of Southampton, NY on September 16. Previously worked for Vanity Fair Corp. She is survived by husband, Donald, son Peter and wife Barrie, son Donald and partner Beverley. Visitation Friday 2-4 and 7-9pm at O'Connell Funeral Home, Southampton. Mass Saturday 9:30 AM at
 CARR--Mary J., of Camillus, NY, formerly of the Webster on West 34th Street, died peacefully at home on September 17th at the age of 85. Mary was born in New York City on May 9, 1920, the beloved daughter of Edward F. and Mary J. Carr (both deceased). The family moved to Syracuse in 1924. S
 DUNLAVY--Francine Alessi, 95, died 29 January 2005. A talented linguist and teacher, she was preceded in death by her husband, Alfred R. Dunlavy, and is survived by a daughter and son-in-law, Patricia and Peter Valenti; grandson, Marco Valenti; granddaughter and grandson-in-law, Christine a
 FELDMAN - Sandra. The Board of Directors, staff and entire network of the National Academy Foundation (NAF) deeply mourn the loss of Sandra Feldman, our fellow board member, friend and champion for many years. Sandy played an important role in the creation of the first Academy of Finance in
 HELD--Amelia Cooper. Beloved wife of Philip D. Held, who adored her, passed away on September 20, 2005 after a long illness. She spent most of her life in Tarrytown, NY and taught in the Westchester school system. She was the last living member of a family that helped to build Tarrytown in 
 JABLON--Florence R. of South Palm Beach, FL, died peacefully at home on September 5, 2005 surrounded by her children, Judy, Peter, Marc, and Jill. She will be remembered as a vibrant woman, devoted wife of the late Sydney, proud and supportive mother to her four children and their spouses, 
 Molly Yard, for more than half a century an outspoken advocate for liberal causes, who came to national prominence as president of the National Organization for Women in the late 1980's, died yesterday at a nursing home in Pittsburgh. She was 93 and had resided most recently in Arlington, V
 ANTELMAN--Joan Pauer, 71. Died September 21. Survived by son Bruce (Maria), daughter Ilene, and brother Stanley Pauer (Edith). Resident of Hallandale Beach, FL. She was born in Brooklyn and attended Bryn Mawr and Brooklyn colleges. A homemaker in Clifton, N.J., and a bridge Grand Master, sh
 AWAD--Rose (nee Azrak). Born May 23, 1914, died peacefully on September 17, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Dewey. Beloved and loving mother of Claudette Razook, Carole Hunt, Douglas Awad and James Awad and the late Joan Elias. Cherished grandmother of 15 grandchildren and 18 great grandchil
 COHEN--Lucille G. On September 20, 2005. Beloved and devoted aunt to Richard Jay and Hope, great-aunt to Lindsey Heather and Ashley Brooke, and to her extended family, Ruby and Franklin, Phyllis, Lawrence and Barbara, Jason, Lynn, Andrew, Ivan, Steven and Tony. Services to be held Friday, S
 De LEEUW--Barbara. On September 9, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Loving mother of Michele Silverman (Seth) and Marc De Leeuw (Christine). Adoring grandmother of Victoria, Samantha and Joshua. Devoted sister of Herb Haber. Barbara graduated from Erasmus High School, Brooklyn Colleg
 FELDMAN--Sandra. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our sisters and brothers in the American Federation of Teachers over the death of their inspired leader Sandra Feldman. Sandy was a powerful advocate for teachers and students. In New York, and later in Washington, she was an effective
 FREUND--Serena L. On September 20, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Max Freund. Loving mother of Elizabeth Green and Alice Gottlieb. Cherished grandmother of Robert, David, Geoffrey, Eric and Caroline and greatgrandmother of seven. Fond sister-in-law of Bunny and Joan Lewis and also survived 
 GRANT--Eleanor Beers, on September 20, 2005 of Manhasset and Southampton, NY. Long time NYC educator and founding member of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus Foundation. Loving wife of Stanley J. Bud Grant. Devoted mother of William R. (Kimberly) and grandmother to Emily C.; step-mother to 
 BACHRACH -- Doris (nee Maydin). Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving sister of Phyllis Weingarten and Deanna Bernstein. Adored aunt of Robert, David and Beth, and great aunt to their children. Services Friday September 23rd, 2pm at ''Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial'' Chapel, 76th Rd & Quee
 BEDER--Eileen. Died on September 21 joining Abner, her love of 46 years on the second anniversary of his death. She began a career at Merrill Lynch, leaving to raise a family. Resuming her career, she became a certified financial advisor and, finally, a Vice President at Ryan Beck. Her true
 CURRAN--Marylyn. 64 of Bayville, NY died suddenly on September 20th. Devoted daughter, wife, mother, grandmother, Teacher, Hearing Officer, Burn Center Nurse, Honorary FDNY Medical Officer and Friend. Survived by mother Mary, Husband Jim, daughters Gwendolyn, Pamela (James), and Merrilee (T
 FELDMAN--Sandra. It is with a great sense of loss that we mourn the passing of Sandy Feldman. She was a labor leader whose strategic sharpness helped move forward the struggle of New York and the Nation's teachers in forging an educational community focused on bringing out the best in both 
 FOULKS--Evelyn (Lyn) September 19, 2005. 84. Beloved sister and aunt. Alfred University, Cleveland School of Art, Traphagen School of Fashion. Well known jewelry designer. Preceded in death by her husband Horace ''Bud'' Foulks. In addition to brothers Arthur and Donald Collins, Mrs. Foulks 
 FREUND--Serena. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sadness the death of Serena Freund, long-standing, devoted member of our Child Development Center Divisional Committee. She cared deeply about children. Our condolences to her entire family. Jean L. Troubh, Presid
 FUTTER--Victor. The President and Board of Trustees of Barnard College are saddened to learn of the death of Victor Futter, esteemed attorney and law professor, father of former Barnard President and Trustee, Ellen Futter. We extend our deepest sympathies to Ellen and her family. Anna Quind
 JOHNSON--Martha Collins. 91, of Heath Village, Hackettstown, NJ, died on September 19, 2005. Born in Pittsburgh she graduated from Greenwich Academy and Vassar College. In her long career as educator, she was Head of the Lower Schools of Low-Heywood, Stamford, CT, Bedford Rippowam, Bedford,
 KENNEDY -- Elizabeth, 101, on September 17, 2005. Sadly we say goodbye to our Mimi. She was loved and admired by all who knew her. Her greatest pleasure was her family to whom she gave more love than could be imagined. We will love you forever . Anne, David, Sarah and Elizabeth Griffin     
 KINDSER--Reva. Of New York City, died September 21, 2005 in Long Island. A former literary editor, she is survived by loving cousins and friends. Graveside service Friday, September 23, in Hartford, CT. Departing from Weinstein Mortuary, Hartford 2PM       
 LAWTON -- Martha E. Malkames. Age 56, of Mahopac, NY, on September 22, 2005. Survived by her father, husband, brother, sister, eight children and 2 two grandchildren. Visiting today 3-8 pm, Joseph J. Smith Funeral Home, 692 Rt. 6, Mahopac. Funeral Saturday, 9:45 am, Sacred Heart Church, Mon
 COHEN--Ann F. Died on Thursday, September 22, 2005 A graduate of City College of New York, she was an accountant as well an active volunteer in many civic and Judaic organizations. Her strength, warmth, wisdom and humor will be deeply missed by her daughter, sonin-law and grandchildren as w
 COOPER--Stella. 95 of Rye and Palm Beach died September 22, 2005. Loving wife for 68 years of Ted Cooper. Devoted mother (and mother-in-law) to Paulette Cooper (Noble) and Paul Noble of Palm Beach and New York. She was articulate, intelligent, interesting, compassionate, charitable, generou
 FELDMAN--Sandra. The U.S. Fund for UNICEF notes with sadness the passing of Sandra Feldman, an honorary board member and lifelong advocate for children. Ms. Feldman's extraordinary leadership, courage and tenacity brought opportunity and dignity to countless children, families and communiti
 ROSENTHAL -- Jacqueline. On September 22, 2005 at age 72. Beloved wife of the late John P. Rosenthal and Harold L. Rothstein. Adoring mother of Ronald Rothstein and Lisa Rosenthal and stepmother to Laura Riese and John Paul Rosenthal. Dear mother-inlaw of Karyn Rothstein and Jeffrey Riese. 
 ALEXANDER -- Grace George. The Board of Directors, staff, and artists of Studio in a School note with sorrow the passing of Georgie Alexander. A tireless and dedicated advocate for children and the arts, Georgie was instrumental in helping to choose the artists and teachers with whom Studio
 FOULKS--Evelyn (Lyn) September 19, 2005. 84. Beloved sister and aunt. Alfred University, Cleveland School of Art, Traphagen School of Fashion. Well known jewelry designer. Preceded in death by her husband Horace ''Bud'' Foulks. In addition to brothers Arthur and Donald Collins, Mrs. Foulks 
 FRANK--Hettie B. 55, on September 18. Beloved wife of Dr. Frederick E. Kahn, adoring mother of Nick Kahn, cherished sister-in-law, aunt and great-aunt. Born in Israel, raised in NYC, a graduate of Queens College and NYU. She was a highly respected psychoanalyst. Energetic and outgoing, she 
 KATZ--Betty Goldfarb, of NYC, NY, passed away peacefully on Monday the 12th, 2005, surrounded by her children. Beloved wife, loving mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. Beloved sister. For information ''Gutterman - Musicant'' 800 522-0588.       
 LETTER - WINEGARDNER -Heather Lynn, September 22, 2005. Heather was born July 25, 1975 in Indianapolis, IN. She was a 1993 graduate of Pike High School in Indianapolis. She is survived by her husband Richard Letter of Philadelphia PA, her mother and father Cindi and Stephen and sister Alici
 LEWIS--Mary Elizabeth, 81, of NYC, died September 23, 2005 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Retired Director of Health at St. Bernard's School in Manhattan, where she devotedly nursed 30 years of boys. She leaves her children, Alfred B. Lewis III, Anne H. Lewis, and Katherine R. Lewis; her
 LEWIS--Sylvia. Passed away peacefully at home on September 24, 2005, after many years of illness. Predeceased by her husband Mac. She is survived by her daughters Hili and Mir, her brother Eddie Rauch and her nieces. We will be thankful forever to Lynette Farquharson for all her devoted car
 LOEWENSTEIN--Ruth H. 95, on September 12, 2005. Cherished wife, mother, sister, aunt, friend; adored and brilliant teacher. Throughout her long life, she loved, nurtured, struggled, led, championed, inspired, sang, danced, and laughed. She is survived by daughters Linda, Hope, Bonnie; broth
 MILLER--Norman I., 63, September 8, 2005, in Miami. Survived by life partner, Jose Garcia; former wife, Alice Ostrove Miller, and her life partner, Fran Levey; mother, Sylvia; brother, Joe. Predeceased by sister, Barbara Friedman, and father, Louis. Graduated from Horace Mann, Tufts and Geo
 GREENSPAN--Phyllis. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Phyllis Greenspan, beloved wife of Murray H. Greenspan, lifelong leaders of the Jewish community whose boundless generosity and devotion profoundly impacted millions of lives. Phy
 ROSENTHAL--Jacqueline. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Jacqueline Rosenthal, who together with her beloved late husband, John Rosenthal, set an example of philanthropic leadership imbued with compassionate generosity and the spirit
 AINSLIE--Ruth. The Board of Directors, staff and members of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association are saddened by the death of our dear friend and colleague, Ruth Ainslie. We will miss her intelligence and insight as well as her energy and style. We express our deepest sympath
 FINK--Judith. Beloved mother of Jennifer (Avi) Gelboim, devoted friend to all. She lived her too short life to the fullest and will be sorely missed. Graveside services Tuesday. Contributions to St. Barnabas Hospice, Livingston, NJ.       
 HOFFMAN--Florence of Delray Beach, Florida passed away on September 25, 2005 90 years young. Dynamic, creative and full of life even in the most difficult times. Beloved wife of the late Milton for 64 years. Devoted mother of Sue & Lew; Jim & June. Loving grandmother of Billy, John, David, 
 NICULESCU--Barbu Dr. September 25, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Katherine. Devoted father of Rena Crisp and her husband William. Cherished grandfather of Peter. Longtime trusted companion of Ceclia Lavor. Funeral services private.       
 SCHLESINGER--Ruth Ainslie. The officers, Board and staff of the YWCA of the City of New York express great sadness at the loss of Ruth Ainslie, Board Member and ardent supporter of YW programs. Her interest and involvement with our girls' and women's programs invigorated the staff and opene
 BOOKSON--Paul. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Honorable Paul Bookson, beloved father of Shoshana Bookson, a treasured friend and leader whose devoted services as a chair of our Trial Lawyer's Group profoundly impacts millions of l
 EASTMAN -- Laura Delano Adams. 79, on September 23, 2005. Born on Campobello Island, New Brunswick, she was the daughter of Frederick Baldwin Adams and Ellen Walters Delano and grew up in the family home at 8 East 69th Street in Manhattan. She married Jack Eastman, Director of the Skowhegan
 HOFFMAN--Florence of Delray Beach, Florida passed away on September 25, 2005 90 years young. Dynamic, creative and full of life even in the most difficult times. Beloved wife of the late Milton for 64 years. Devoted mother of Sue & Lew; Jim & June. Loving grandmother of Billy, John, David, 
 LEWIS--Mary Elizabeth, 81, of NYC, died September 23, 2005 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Retired Director of Health at St. Bernard's School in Manhattan, where she devotedly nursed 30 years of boys. She leaves her children, Alfred B. Lewis III, Anne H. Lewis, and Katherine R. Lewis; her
 STARR--Abbey Kissel of Far Hills, NJ, died on Monday September 26, 2005. She was born February 28, 1917 in New York City to William Thorn and Frances Dallet Kissel. Mrs. Starr attended Brearley School in NYC, and was a lifelong resident of Holland Road, Far Hills, NJ. She was a longtime mem
 Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Mary Lee Settle, a master of historical fiction who recreated time and place with visceral, almost fanatical accuracy, died Tuesday at a hospice in Charlottesville, Va. She was 87 and made her home in Charlottesville. The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Christopher Weathersbee.
 Nora Kerr, a longtime editor at The New York Times and a former editor of its Sunday Travel section, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 61 and a Manhattan resident. Ms. Kerr, who retired from the paper this month, died after having been il
 LASKAWY--Thelma. On September 25, 2005, at age 87. She is survived by her beloved husband, Benjamin; cherished son, Philip; loving daughter-in-law, Patricia; grandsons, Michael and Thomas; and great grandsons, Kieran and Eli. Services will be private.       
 MOTLEY -- The Honorable Constance Baker. September 28, 2005 in New York City. Deeply mourned by her loving husband, Joel Motley, Jr.; her son Joel Motley III; Isolde Motley; her grandchildren Hannah, Ian, and Senay; her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster, and Marion Green; her brother Ed
 SCHLESINGER--Ruth Ainslie. Our dearest friend who was taken so quickly. The twinkle in her eye and smile on her face said it all. If only we could give you a ''mulligan'' to keep you here. You will be in our hearts and minds forever. With love, Diane and Arthur       
 URMAN--Doris. Of Ft. Lee, NJ. Wife of the late Felix Urman and Solomon Weisleder. Mother of Ann Oster and Harry Weisleder. Sister of Rifka Goldstein. Grandmother of ten grandchildren. Services Thursday, 9:30 AM at ''Wien & Wien'' 402 Park St, Hackensack, NJ. $(6$)URMAN--Doris. The T
 EASTHOM--Marcella McSherry. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners and its hospitals acknowledges with sadness the passing of Marcella McSherry Easthom, mother of our esteemed colleague, Carolyn Cassin, president and CEO of Continuum Hospice Care. We offer our deepest condolences to Ca
 GODLEY--Elizabeth McCray. The Friends of Bassett and the medical staff and administration of Bassett Healthcare mourn the passing of our friend, colleague and member of the Friends' board of directors. Her support for the Friends of Bassett and the patients and families served by Bassett He
 JACKNOW--Muriel. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our devoted friend Muriel Jacknow of Farmington Hills, MI. A past member of the ATS national and East Central Region Boards, Mrs. Jacknow and her late husband, Dr. David Jacknow establish
 KERR--Nora. 62, on Tuesday, September 27, 2005. Born in Cairo, Egypt on November 19, 1943. After the war she and her family moved to the United States where she grew up in suburban New Jersey. She attended Rutgers, The State University and William Paterson University of New Jersey, before l
 LARSON--Antoinette M., 91, of Lenox, MA died Sept. 25th. She is survived by two daughters, Anne E. Goodchild of Pittsfield, MA and Karen A. Miner of Washington, MA; grandchildren Christian Goodchild, Peter Goodchild, Matthew Goodchild, Jennifer Bailey and Annette Miner; great grandchildren 
 LASKAWY--Thelma. On September 25, 2005, at age 87. She is survived by her beloved husband, Benjamin; cherished son, Philip; loving daughter-in-law, Patricia; grandsons, Michael and Thomas; and great grandsons, Kieran and Eli. Services will be private.       
 MOTLEY -- The Honorable Constance Baker. September 28, 2005 in New York City. Deeply mourned by her loving husband, Joel Motley, Jr.; her son Joel Motley III; Isolde Motley; her grandchildren Hannah, Ian, and Senay; her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster, and Marion Green; her brother Ed
 PEISACH--Polea, on September 27, 2005. The firm of Loeb, Block & Partners mourns the passing of Polea Peisach, our cherished and valued friend of over 50 years, and extends their heartfelt condolences to her children, Natan and Lidia Peisach, Celia and Manuel Grimberg, Jose and Edith Peisac
