 BEER-Laura H. Died September 22, 2000. She lived a mindful, simple life in the West Village. She was a social worker who respected the wisdom of her clients, a gospel chorus member who offered her voice joyfully with her peers, a mother who loved and dazzled her children and a citizen with 
 COYLE-Eileen Jane (nee Tuohy). Unexpectedly on September 28, 2000. Beloved wife of Daniel Edward. Adored mother of Patricia K. Coyle, M.D., Eileen Dana Flood, Daniel Edward Coyle, Jr., Claudia Coyle, Mary Jane Herkenham, and Christopher Coyle. Loving grandmother of Danny, Peter, Billy, Eile
 de RICHEMOND-Cynthia Micheline. In Cannes. Professor RobertEmile Bical has the painful task of announcing the death of his dearest wife, Cynthia Micheline de Richemond alias ''Petit Bozel''. Free France Voluntary Conscript Medal, former B.C.R.A. Officer. Her death occurred peacefully in Can
 DURR-Ernestine B. Died peacefully at home at age 95 on August 24, 2000. Memorial Service at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 61st Street, Manhattan, on Saturday, October 14, 2000, at 11:00 A.M. Memorial donations may be made in her name to St. Peter's Lutheran Church of Manh
 GOLANN-Marie (Olyve) Warner. On September 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irwin Golann. Loving mother of Steven Golann, Robert Golann, & Janet Dickstein. Survived by her six grandchildren: Jason, Zachary, David, Lora, Nathan, and Douglas. Interment at Greenwood Cemetery.       
 GUINIER-Doris I. Suddenly passed on September 28, 2000. She was a retired guidance counselor of the NYC Board of Education and a devoted, active participant in many community organizations. Beloved mother of Clotilde Y. Stenson, beloved grandmother of Lisa M. Stenson, Esq., and beloved matr
 OSTUW-Gladys (nee Kalman). On September 16, 2000 in Hollywood, FL. Formerly of Woodmere, N.Y. Devoted wife of the late Jack Ostuw. Loved and respected by her son and daughterin-law, Richard and Lois, her sister and brother-in-law, Shirley and David Chernow and her friends. Her love of the a
 SALLEE-Suzanne D. 92 years old, Lake Worth, FL died Monday, September 25 at her residence. Born in New York City, former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, NY graduated from Rosemary Hall, and attended Bennett Jr. College where she later served on the Board of Trustees. Mrs. Sallee and her hus
 VIETA-Henrietta E. Countiss. Peacefully at home on September 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John O. Vieta, M.D. Loving mother of Dr. Paul, Frances, Jona. Dearest mother-in-law of Leila Vieta and Richard Larm. Cherished grandmother of Kathryn, Amy, Paul, Laura, Robin, and Jonathan. Dear 
 WARREN-Ilse. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, Ilse died peacefully on September 28, 2000 after a courageous battle with cancer. She leaves her devoted son and daughter-in-law, Steven and Judith Katten, her cherished grandson, Daniel, and her dear sister and best friend, Irene (Reni) Re
 ZINN-Eleanore. 87, beloved wife of the late Oscar Zinn, passed away peacefully September 28, 2000. She gracefully devoted her life and love to her family and to the honoring of Jewish traditions in the home. She is the cherished mother of Victor and Douglas Zinn and the late Harold and Rich
 ZORN-Lillian R. On September 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lewis E. Adored mother of Richard and beloved mother-in-law of Franny. Loving grandmother of Danny and Katie. Her loving and supportive spirit will always be remembered by her family.       
 DURR-Ernestine B. Died peacefully at home at age 95 on August 24, 2000. Memorial Service at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 61st Street, Manhattan, on Saturday, October 14, 2000, at 11:00 A.M. Memorial donations may be made in her name to St. Peter's Lutheran Church of Manh
 LEAVY-Josephine Breakstone. June 28, 1895-October 1, 1920. A brief life of love enduring through the generations of her descendants. Eternal life shine upon her. Stan       
 Mary Shepard, the modest illustrator whose line drawings of Mary Poppins brought to life the ultimate British nanny in a series of seven books by P. L. Travers published from 1933 to 1988, died in London on Sept. 4. She was 90. Her father was E. H. Shepard, the illustrator of ''Winn
 BLIEDEN-Lois (nee Drosin). Of Fort Lee (formerly of Teaneck), on Septebmber 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur. Dearest mother of Hali Pine, Andrew Blieden and Amy Blieden. Loving companion of Joseph Koppel. Cherished grandmother of Amanda and Morgan Pine, and Rachel Blieden. Dev
 FRANKLIN-Gloria J., formerly known as Beulah Allen, of Kettering, OH died Thursday, September 28, 2000. She was a member of St. Albert the Great Catholic Church. Gloria lived 42 years in New York City and retired as nurse. She was preceded in death by her father Wheeler R. Allen, brother Cl
 HIRST-Judith Wegman. Age 63, of Rockville Centre, NY, on September 30, 2000. Wife of John, she will always be remembered for her zest and enthusiasm for life and her focus on others. The family will receive friends at 135 Piermont Ave, Hewlett Bay Park, NY 11557, from 1-4, Sunday, October 8
 LANGFAN-Hilda. Died at her home in Houston, TX, on September 28, 2000, at the age of 85 after a long illness. She was a native and longtime resident of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Rubin Langfan and devoted mother of the late Judith Shilling. She is survived by her children Lorra
 OSEAS-Hilda N. 96, formerly of The Majestic, NYC, died September 29, 2000, in Rhinebeck, NY. Retired Bronx principal for NYC Public Schools and life member of the Gotham Chapter of Hadassah. Her husband, Israel Oseas, who died in 1986, was former president of Park Avenue Synagogue and the B
 SCHERL THAU-Jeanette. Nee Zinder. Beloved matriarch, widow of Sam A. Scherl, M.D., and of Harry Thau. Mother of Dr. Newton D. Scherl and Sheila, and Dr. Burton A. Scherl and Shelah. Grandmother of Dr. Michael Scherl and MaryEllen, Dr. Sharon Scherl and Dr. Eric Morgenstern, Dr. Susan Scherl
 WARREN-Ilse. We are saddened by the loss of Ilse, mother of our son-in-law Steven. She was a remarkable women and will be sorely missed. The Grossman Family       
 ZORN-Lillian R. On September 30, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lewis E. Adored mother of Richard and beloved mother-in-law of Franny. Loving grandmother of Danny and Katie. Her loving and supportive spirit will always be remembered by her family.       
 Ann Doran, a character actress who appeared in hundreds of movies and television shows over the course of a career that began during the silent film era and lasted into the 1980's, died on Sept. 19 in Carmichael, Calif. She was 89. Ms. Doran's more memorable roles included a panicky
 BAILIS-Susan. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected leader of the Jewish community, the beloved sister of Stephen D. (and Elsa) Solender, Board member of our Wurzweiler School of Social Work. Mrs. Bailis championed health care for the elderly, social
 CARTER-Sydelle. Age 85, on September 28, 2000. Her inner beauty unsurpassed. To her family a beacon of strength, love and kindness. Beloved wife of Louis. Cherished mother of Rosalie Nagler, Florence Strauss and Rona Breslow. Adored grandmother and great grandmother. We are all so much the 
 CITRIN-Sylvia Leah. On Sunday, October 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry Citrin. Devoted father of Cynthia Janis and the late Linda Lederman. Loving grandfather of Howard & Lauren Janis and Steven and Kenneth Lederman. Great-grandfather of Abby Louise Janis. Graveside service will be 
 FRIED-Brita Digby, age 88, died peacefully on October 1 at her home in East Hampton, following a series of strokes over the past few years. She is survived by her husband, Walter J. Fried, her daughters Allison Blinken and Ingrid (Mimi) Einstein and her grandchildren Anna Lonergan, Ingrid B
 GUINIER-Doris. The members of the Brooklyn Museum of Art Community Committee are deeply saddened by the sudden death of Doris Guinier, a devoted member and dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Edith Gothelf, President Community Committee       
 LANGFAN-Hilda. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our most devoted longtime former president of the AMIT B&P Chapter. A true ''Woman of Valor'', Hilda Langfan epitomized kindness and compassion, and was most generous in her devotion to helping thousands of AMIT children in need in Isr
 MENKEN - COOPER - Sadie nee Sheingold. Widow of Irwin Menken & Irving Cooper. Beloved mother of four, grandmother of nine, great-grandmother of eleven. Accomplished musician. Her strength, wisdom and devotion to family will be always remembered and ever missed.       
 MULLER-Flora. We mourn the loss of Flora Muller, founding member of our congregation and honorary trustee. We extend our condolences to her daughter Helen and the entire family. Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates       
 OSHMAN-Beatrice Cohen (nee Wexler), on October 1, 2000, three days before her 94th birthday. Widow of Benjamin Cohen and Harry Oshman. Devoted mother of Sara Fuchsman and Martin H. Cohen. Beloved mother-in-law of Arline Cohen and Alan Fuchsman. Loving grandmother of Ellen Fuchsman Ford, Eri
 PIZZURRO-Margaret Elizabeth Holtkamp, beloved wife of Joseph C. Pizzurro and mother of Joseph, Peter, Virginia, Mary (Esposito), Elizabeth (Ossoff) and Catherine (Hliboki) and grandmother of ten died September 30, 2000 following a short hospitalization. Her two sisters, Sr. Catherine Mary a
 VIETA-Henrietta E. Countiss. Peacefully at home on September 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John O. Vieta, M.D. Loving mother of Dr. Paul, Frances, Jona. Dearest mother-in-law of Leila Vieta and Richard Larm. Cherished grandmother of Kathryn, Amy, Paul, Laura, Robin, and Jonathan. Dear 
 WITT-Evelyn. On October 2, 2000 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Ira. Loving mother of Stuart and grandmother of Jenny. Former Executive Secretary to Dean Mathey. As a Gray Lady during WWII, she comforted the troops when they returned from battle. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 BRAVMAN-Celia (nee Kahn). Beloved wife for 67 years of the late Moses, adoring mother of Irving (Rose), treasured Oma to Elizabeth (Jonah), cherished GreatOma to Noah, Sarah, Rebecca, Daniel and Gideon, sister of Rosel Schwarzenberger and Senta Eulau. A truly pious women who died on Rosh Ha
 CITRIN-Sylvia Leah. On Sunday, October 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry Citrin. Devoted mother of Cynthia Janis and the late Linda Lederman. Loving grandmother of Howard & Lauren Janis and Steven and Kenneth Lederman. Great-grandmother of Abby Louise Janis. Graveside service will be 
 COTTRELL - Helen Elizabeth. Died October 1, 2000. She was 88 years of age and resided in Mystic, CT. Helen was a graduate of the College of Mt. St. Vincent 1931 and Columbia Law School 1934. She was admitted to the Bar in both New York and Connecticut and worked with the US Attorney's offic
 FRIED-Brita Digby. Age 88, died peacefully on October 1 at her home in East Hampton, following a series of strokes over the past few years. She is survived by her husband, Walter J. Fried, her daughters Allison Blinken and Ingrid (Mimi) Einstein and her grandchildren Anna Lonergan, Ingrid B
 HAIGHT-Marjorie nee Callaghan, October 2, 2000, Morristown, New Jersey. Born April 8, 1920, New York City. Daughter of the late Justice Stephen Callaghan and Ethel Callaghan. Wife of the late Reverend John Malcolm Haight of Massapequa, NY. Mrs. Haight is survived by her daughters, Ellen Gib
 HOLZMAN-Cecilia. On October 1, 2000, at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Cherished sister, adored aunt and great-aunt. May her memory be a blessing. The Hoffman and Croutch Family       
 HOROWITZ-Jeanette Lillian, nee Jacob, who would have been 90 on November 29, died at the Salem Lutheran Home Skilled Nursing Facility in Oakland, CA. on October 3, 2000. Mrs. Horowitz was a teacher in New York City for over 35 years and lived in the Bronx, NY, Boonton, NJ, and Walnut Creek,
 LOW-Evelyn. The Board of Directors of the United Hebrew Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Mrs. Evelyn Low, beloved mother of Barbara and Robert S. Savin and Frieda and Robert Low, and widow of Max M. Low. As the esteemed Chairmen and Past Presidents of our Board, both Robert S. Savin an
 MAKER-Marion W. Former resident of Manhattan and Long Island, passed away October 1 at her home in Palm Beach, Florida. Widow of Seymour A. Berger, she is survived by her husband George W. Maker, a son Richard Berger of New York and Cape Town, S.A., a daughter and son-inlaw Marsy and Josef 
 REHFUSS-Amy C., 86. Died Saturday, September 30 in Concord, NH. She taught in the bible department at the Masters School, Dobbs Ferry, NY from 1941 to 1967. From 1967 to 1980 she was the academic dean at Ethel Walker School, Simsbury, CT. She was on the Board of Directors of the Northfield 
 RICHELSON-Geraldine. Loving wife of the late Sigmund Richelson died at her home October 1. She is survived by her sons Andrew and Eric, her grandchildren Emily, Silas and Caleb, and her brother Melvin Popper. Mrs. Richelson, a graduate of Hunter High School and Hunter College, authored chil
 RODGERS-Terry (Lila) of Terry Rodgers Antique and Fine Jewelry of New York City passed away on Tuesday Morning, October 3, at approximately 10:30 AM, on a bright, beautiful, sunny day. Her adoring and adored husband Jesse was at her side. She is also survived by her beloved daughter Melody,
 ROSS-Miriam Wolff. Actor, director and writer, known to the stage as Miriam Wolfe. Peacefully at her home in Toronto, Friday evening, 29 September 2000, at age 78. In the caring presence of her son Michael and friend Lanie. After a lengthy, determined and exhausting battle with breast cance
 SEMEL-Lillian S. The Partners and Staff of Goodkind, Labaton, Rudoff & Sucharow, LLP express their deepest sympathy to their partner Betty M. Semel on the passing of her mother Lillian; we extend our condolences to her daughter, Rita and to her grandchildren. Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucha
 WITT-Evelyn. On October 2, 2000 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Ira. Loving mother of Stuart and grandmother of Jenny. Former Executive Secretary to Dean Mathey. As a Gray Lady during WWII, she comforted the troops when they returned from battle. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 SMITH ANDERSON-Shirley. The White House Project acknowledges all of Shirley's contributions. During her lifetime she helped build the climate for women's leadership in America and she will be missed. We are pleased to announce that a fund in Shirley's name has been set up       
 Sophie Koulomzin, a leading Orthodox Christian educator whose life encompassed the history of 20th-century Russia and the experience of Russian emigres, died in Valley Cottage, N.Y., on Friday. She was 96. A longtime seminary instructor in the United States, she wrote widely used te
 Miriam Wolfe, whose long acting career embraced radio, television and the theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Toronto. She was 78. Ms. Wolfe played a wide variety of characters during her lifetime but was perhaps best known for her skill at conveying an assortment of wicked wit
 CITRIN-Sylvia Leah. On Sunday, October 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harry Citrin. Devoted mother of Cynthia Janis and the late Linda Lederman. Loving grandmother of Howard & Lauren Janis and Steven and Kenneth Lederman. Great-grandmother of Abby Louise Janis. Graveside service was held
 ETTNER-Moshe. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Moshe Ettner, beloved grandfather of Gali Ettner-Levkovitz, the wife of Assistant Rabbi Levkovitz. We extend our deepest condolences to Gali and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor D
 FRIED-Brita Digby. Age 88, died peacefully on October 1 at her home in East Hampton, following a series of strokes over the past few years. She is survived by her husband, Walter J. Fried, her daughters Allison Blinken and Ingrid (Mimi) Einstein and her grandchildren Anna Lonergan, Ingrid B
 GELDZAELER-Hortense. Of Toronto, Canada, on October 4, 2000 in her 103rd year. Beloved mother of Emily L. Grant (Eugene) of Mamaroneck, NY, Alfreda Henry, and the late Phyllis Weisfeld of Toronto; devoted grandmother of Barbi Weisfeld, David Weisfeld, Robert Henry and Carol Henry of Toronto
 LOW-Evlynne. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Robert and Frieda, and Barbara and Robert Savin. Adored grandmother of Debi and Steve Scoggan, Scott Savin, Gary and Nancy Low, Caren and Glen Coben and Warren Low. Cherished great-grandmother of five. Service on
 VIETA-Henrietta E. Countiss. Peacefully at home on September 28, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John O. Vieta, M.D. Loving mother of Dr. Paul, Frances, Jona. Dearest mother-in-law of Leila Vieta and Richard Larm. Cherished grandmother of Kathryn, Amy, Paul, Laura, Robin, and Jonathan. Dear 
 ALLEN-Robert. With profound sorrow, the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of Robert Allen, beloved husband of our dear friend and long time Beth Israel supporter Patty Allen. Our sympathy is extended to Patty, her family and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Bo
 BIANCHI-Doris Balin, aged 68. Loving mother of Diana & Peter, beloved ''Gran'' to Josh, Elliott and Lilly, adored sister to Herbert, died on October 4th, 2000 after a valiant fight that rarely slowed her down. She was a faculty member of the Department of Speech & Theater at Montclair State
 CASEY-Sophia B. On October 5, 2000, of Roslyn Harbor. Beloved wife of the late William J. Casey, former Director of Central Intelligence. Loving mother of Bernadette Casey Smith and her husband Owen T. Smith. Dear sister of Lillian Kurz and Joseph Kurz. Loving aunt of Noel Glenn, Carol Murr
 DOWNEY-Marjorie. On October 5, 2000, peacefully, at home, at age 71. Loving sister of Ralph Fields. Interment private. A memorial service to be announced. Contributions in her memory may be made to Belgravia Foundation, c/o Martin Felcher, 18 East 48 Street, 17th Floor, New York, NY 10017. 
 DRAKE-Karen Nelson. Age 67, of Rutherford, NJ died peacefully at her home on Tuesday October 3, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John G. Drake and loving daughter of the late Mayor Martin P. and Florence H. Nelson. She is survived by her beloved sister Margot N. Carey, her brother-in-law J. R
 GELDZAELER-Hortense. Of Toronto, Canada, on October 4, 2000 in her 103rd year. Beloved mother of Emily L. Grant (Eugene) of Mamaroneck, NY, Alfreda Henry, and the late Phyllis Weisfeld of Toronto; devoted grandmother of Barbi Weisfeld, David Weisfeld, Robert Henry and Carol Henry of Toronto
 GUERRERO-Roxane P. was the youngest of four, after Elisabeth, Margaret, and William. Daughter of William W. Pollock, politically liberal appraiser/journalist, and college educated free thinking, Elisabeth Philbrook Pollock, Roxane began a fifty year journalism career at the Evening Public L
 HOFFMAN-Muriel. At age 91, of Queens, NY. Beloved wife of the late Max. Loving mother of Mona Paster. Adored grandmother of Marla. Great-grandmother of Jacqueline & Sam. Graveside services on Friday, 1 PM, Beth David. She was a woman ahead of her time. She will be greatly missed.       
 ORTNER-Jane Ellen on October 5, 2000. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Amy and Eric. Devoted sister of Ann and Dr. Michael Rosen and Dr. Jeffrey and Margo Gold. Cherished daughter of the late Dr. Theodore and Belle Gold. Proud aunt of Dana, Barrie, Seth, Alexander and Julia. Jane w
 POSNER-Sylvia Rutkins. Beloved wife of the late Harry B. Rutkins and the late Bernard Posner. Adored mother of Amy Davis Gold. Loving grandmother of Alison and Howard. Cherished sister of Dr. Edward Zornberg, Rose Goldberg and the late Ethel Spitalny, Bertha Richman and Monroe Zornberg. Ser
 RAND-Claire. Continually devoted mother of Larry and Debbie, Carol Rand and Bob McCluskie, and Mitchel and Dr. Laura. Loving grandmother of Benjamin, Jeremy and Kyle. Cherished sister of Dr. Richard and Lila Nachtigall, adored aunt and great-aunt and loyal friend. She will be sorely missed.
 BIANCHI-Doris Balin, aged 68. Loving mother of Diana & Peter, beloved ''Gran'' to Josh, Elliott and Lilly, adored sister to Herbert, died on October 4th, 2000 after a valiant fight that rarely slowed her down. She was a faculty member of the Department of Speech & Theater at Montclair State
 CASEY-Sophia B. On October 5, 2000, of Roslyn Harbor. Beloved wife of the late William J. Casey, former Director of Central Intelligence. Loving mother of Bernadette Casey Smith and her husband Owen T. Smith. Dear sister of Lillian Kurz and Joseph Kurz. Loving aunt of Noel Glenn, Carol Murr
 DAUBER-Beatrice. Wife of the late Isidore Dauber, died October 6 in her 89th year. Beloved mother of Drs. Leonard (Lorraine) and Kenneth (Antoinette); grandmother of Paul, Jane Lewittes (Michael), Daniel, Jonathan (Sarah), Abigail, and Maayan; great grandmother of Joshua, Jack, and Sophie. 
 GELDZAELER-Hortense. Of Toronto, Canada, on October 4, 2000 in her 103rd year. Beloved mother of Emily L. Grant (Eugene) of Mamaroneck, NY, Alfreda Henry, and the late Phyllis Weisfeld of Toronto; devoted grandmother of Barbi Weisfeld, David Weisfeld, Robert Henry and Carol Henry of Toronto
 HARDAWAY-Charlotte Cubberley, known to friends and birth family as ''Chickie'', died October 3, after a long illness, in Mesa, AZ. She was the daughter of Howard and Charlotte Cubberley (deceased), and summered with them and her sister Edna (d. February 10, 1999) for many years on Cape Cod.
 ORTNER-Jane Ellen. On October 5, 2000. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Amy and Eric. Devoted sister of Ann and Dr. Michael Rosen and Dr. Jeffrey and Margo Gold. Cherished daughter of the late Dr. Theodore and Belle Gold. Proud aunt of Dana, Barrie, Seth, Alexander and Julia. Jane 
 VANDERLIP-Carole Ann (previously Cam Newell, nee McGillicuddy), sculptor and author, died September 19th at her home in Chelsea, England of brain cancer. She was well loved by her husband Kelvin, who can answer all inquiries at (011) 4420 7581-8344. A memorial service will be held on Octobe
 VOSPER-Dena Brown. In Guilford, October 3, 2000, of 35 North St., Guilford CT. Wife of the late Richard Waynard Vosper. Mother of Dinah Hatfield Vosper of Guilford, CT. Sister of Dorothy Brown Fugate of Greenfield, MA. Also survived by three nieces, JoDean Fugate of Wilmington, DE, Judith F
 BARLOW-Frances (Fran). Wife of the late Meyer (Mac) Barlow. Beloved mother of Seldon and Lydia, Susan and Clive. Very loving grandmother to Paul, Mindy, Michael and Jessica Barlow, and Jill and Eric Sussman. Great-gandmother of Morgan, Aaron, Cori, Mitchell and Justin. Passed away on Octobe
 BARRER-Norma (nee Nash). Of Ft. Lee, NJ, on October 7, 2000. Beloved wife of Jerome. Devoted mother of Peter Barrer, Carole Barrer, Nancy Barrer and Betty Barrer. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, Ira, Rachel, Jennifer and Samuel. Past President of NCJW, South Shore, LI, and Palm Beach, FL c
 BLUMBERG-Hilda. On October 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Gail Rise Retter. She will be deeply missed for the love and beauty she added to the lives of her family and friends. Service private.       
 CASEY-Sophia B. On October 5, 2000, of Roslyn Harbor. Beloved wife of the late William J. Casey, former Director of Central Intelligence. Loving mother of Bernadette Casey Smith and her husband Owen T. Smith. Dear sister of Lillian Kurz and Joseph Kurz. Loving aunt of Noel Glenn, Carol Murr
 DAUBER-Beatrice. Wife of the late Isidore Dauber, died October 6 in her 89th year. Beloved mother of Drs. Leonard (Lorraine) and Kenneth (Antoinette); grandmother of Paul, Jane Lewittes (Michael), Daniel, Jonathan (Sarah), Abigail, and Maayan; great grandmother of Joshua, Jack, and Sophie. 
 DOWNEY-Marjorie. On October 5, 2000, peacefully, at home, at age 71. Loving sister of Ralph Fields. Interment private. A memorial service to be announced. Contributions in her memory may be made to Belgravia Foundation, c/o Martin Felcher, 18 East 48 Street, 17th Floor, New York, NY 10017. 
 GELDZAELER-Hortense. Of Toronto, Canada, on October 4, 2000 in her 103rd year. Beloved mother of Emily L. Grant (Eugene) of Mamaroneck, NY, Alfreda Henry, and the late Phyllis Weisfeld of Toronto; devoted grandmother of Barbi Weisfeld, David Weisfeld, Robert Henry and Carol Henry of Toronto
 GILFILLAN-Marijane. On October 6, 2000, at age 67. Longtime employee of the Village Voice. Loving sister of Sue Ann Converse. Aunt of Anthony and Alexander Converse. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Friends in Deed, 594 Broadway, NY, NY 10012.       
 GORDON-Lillian Levine, died May 9th, 2000, age 91 in Oakland, CA. A native New Yorker, she taught second grade in the NYC public schools and the Hillel school in Lawrence. A loving mother and wife. Preceded in death by her husband Max, 1994. Survived by her son Roy (Oakland), daughter Gail 
 HEATHERINGTON - Frances. Painter, died October 4, 2000. A memorial gathering will be held at her studio, October 11, 4 PM.       
 MISHKIN-Harriet. On October 6, 2000 at age 61. Beloved wife of Edwin. Loving mother of Andrew and David. Dear sister of Samuel Furgang. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday 7-9 PM with service Tuesday 9:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in he
 OLTARSH-Elaine. Beloved wife of the late Stuart Oltarsh died October 6, at home. Adored and loving mother of Lauren Oltarsh, mother-in-law of Chris Guarino, cherished Nana of Allison and Katie, loving sister of Harriet and Mervin, and dearest aunt to their children and grandchildren. Loved 
 ORTNER-Jane Ellen. On October 5, 2000. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Amy and Eric. Devoted sister of Ann and Dr. Michael Rosen and Dr. Jeffrey and Margo Gold. Cherished daughter of the late Dr. Theodore and Belle Gold. Proud aunt of Dana, Barrie, Seth, Alexander and Julia. Jane 
 ROSS-Miriam Wolff. Actor, director and writer, known to the stage as Miriam Wolfe. Peacefully at her home in Toronto, Friday evening, 29 September 2000, at age 78. In the caring presence of her son Michael and friend Lanie. After a lengthy, determined and exhausting battle with breast cance
 SCHEINFELD-Frances. With much sadness we mourn the untimely passing of Frances Scheinfeld. To her husband, Al, & her children and grandchildren, we offer our condolences in this hour of their bereavement. She was a tower of strength loved by all. Her memory will be a blessing to everyone wh
 SHATTEN-Arlene, age 75, of Atlanta, GA. Formerly of Cleveland, OH., and Naples, FL died Sunday September 24, 2000. She is survived by her husband Michael Shatten, daughter Jane Shatten Flowerree, both of Atlanta. In lieu of flowers the family requests a donation to the giver's favority char
 SITTNER-Beatrice C. Of Yonkers, NY on October 3, 2000, at age 92. Born in NYC to Benjamin and Hattie Steckler Cohen, Bea was the wife of the late William Sittner. She was a cherished mother and surrogate mother, poet, editor of the newsletter at Nyack Manor Nursing Home, and member of the E
 VANDERLIP-Carole Ann (previously Cam Newell, nee McGillicuddy), sculptor and author, died September 19th at her home in Chelsea, England of brain cancer. She was well loved by her husband Kelvin, who can answer all inquiries at (011) 4420 7581-8344. A memorial service will be held on Octobe
 VLACHOS-Alice M. Died on September 29, 2000. Beloved wife and loving mother, she leaves behind her husband of 52 years, James, and her adoring children: her sons, Paul Vlachos and Nicholas Christopher, and her daughter-in-law, Constance Christopher. She was the joy and light of her family a
 DURR-Ernestine. The people of Saint Peter's Church a congregation of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, gives thanks to God for the life and witness of Ernestine Durr, who died on August 24, 2000. An active member and generous supporter of Saint Peter's Church for most of her life,
 DURR-Ernestine B. Died peacefully at home at age 95 on August 24, 2000. Memorial Service at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 61st Street, Manhattan, on Saturday, October 14, 2000, at 11:00 A.M. Memorial donations may be made in her name to St. Peter's Lutheran Church of Manh
 CASEY-Sophia B. On October 5, 2000, of Roslyn Harbor. Beloved wife of the late William J. Casey, former Director of Central Intelligence. Loving mother of Bernadette Casey Smith and her husband Owen T. Smith. Dear sister of Lillian Kurz and Joseph Kurz. Loving aunt of Noel Glenn, Carol Murr
 DOLPHIN-Madeline. On October 5, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Maurice. Cherished mother of Eileen. Also survived by her sister Helen, nieces Janet and Carol, nephew Gerard and grandnieces Audrey, Suzanne and Molly. Visitation will be held at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, NY, on Mond
 HOROWITZ-Mildred. On October 3, 2000, age 96. Born Mildred Scheff in Washington, DC, last surviving youngest and most beautiful of four sisters. She had been widowed for 40 years. She lived in her own apartment until the end, loved and admired by her son, James, four grandchildren, Nina, Cl
 HOROWITZ-Toni Ellen. On October 7. Wife of Lawrence and mother of Tony and Lawrel Thacher; grandmother of Sarah Thacher. She was 72 years old and was married for 52 years. Toni was well loved and will be missed by family and friends.       
 MAXWELL-Dr. Emanuel. Of Cambridge, on October 6. Beloved husband of the late Paniogata (Darras) and the late Lee (Katkow). Loving father of Judy of NYC, David of Concord, Tania and her husband Chris Osborne of Cambridge, grandfather of Annabelle Winne of Jamaica Plain, brother of Dora Perks
 MISHKIN-Harriet. On October 6, 2000 at age 61. Beloved wife of Edwin. Loving mother of Andrew and David. Dear sister of Samuel Furgang. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday 7-9 PM with service Tuesday 9:30 AM. Interment private. Contributions in he
 ACKERMAN-Nathalie. Of Great Neck, NY. Actress, writer, script doctor, on October 8, 2000. Cherished daughter of Lillian and the late Nathan Ackerman, beloved sister of Robin and Gary Fishberg, Heidi and Mervin Jordan, and Glenn & Adina Ackerman. Adored aunt of Keith, Brett, Michele, Jonatha
 BULLATY - LOMEO - Sonja. Be loved partner of Angelo Lomeo, for 49 years, died on October 5, 2000. She was 76 years old. A renowned photographer with a passion for life, she inspired many through her beautiful images. Bereft of family by the Holocaust, Sonja opened her heart to the world. Sh
 DAUBER - Beatrice. Mohegan Park Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our Vice President and Gabbi Leonard. She was an Elder among the four Dauber generations that make up our community. May Lenny, Lorraine, Kenneth, Paul, Daniel, Jane, Michael, Joshua, Jack and Sophie b
 DOLPHIN-Madeline. On October 5, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Maurice. Cherished mother of Eileen. Also survived by her sister Helen, nieces Janet and Carol, nephew Gerard and grandnieces Audrey, Suzanne and Molly. Visitation will be held at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, NY, on Mond
 GANS-Felice M. Psychologist, age 72, died Ocotber 7. A lover of wild life and railroad travel. Survived by brother and sister-in-law Maurice and Carol, nieces and nephew, Lynda, Judy, Patrice, Keri and John, grandnieces and nephews Jennnifer, Morgan, John, Erik and Marc. As she wished, ther
 GILFILLAN-Marijane. On October 6, 2000, at age 67. Longtime employee of the Village Voice. Loving sister of Sue Ann Converse. Aunt of Anthony and Alexander Converse. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Friends in Deed, 594 Broadway, NY, NY 10012.       
 GOODSTEIN-Clara. Beloved wife of the late Leo, devoted mother of Gary and Barbara. She will be remembered for her integrity, professionalism, & love of family and friends. Services ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Wednesday at 10 A.M.       
 KREMER - Rose (Boxinbaum). Passed away peacefully September 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Manny (Noreen), Gloria, Rickie (Yoshua), Bryan (Myrna) and Henry. Adoring ''Boobie'' to Patrick David, Jody and Mark, Max and Davida, Devra and Shira. Great-grandmother of
 LOWE-Jeanette Marmott. With heavy hearts and profound sadness we mourn the loss of Jeanette Marmott Lowe (Beauty), October 8, 2000. Precious mother of Gail Lowe Maidman (Richard), devoted grandmother of Starr Elizabeth Haymes and Evan Adam Haymes, sister of Perry Zitter, Edith Bloch and the
 SCHEUER-Gloria F. Died October 8, 2000. at her home in Greenwich, CT. after a long illness with which she dealt with dignity and through which she was supported by her husband and the untiring attention and love of Maria Lima. She is survived by her husband Robert, her son Alan Scheuer of G
 SCHRAMM-Sarah. Born December 10, 1907. Passed away October 8, 2000. Cherished wife of the late Sidney M. Schramm. Beloved mother of Jennifer and Alden Englander of Mamaroneck, NY, Felice and the late Richard L. Cohan of NYC, and Joanne and Leonard Schramm of Scottsdale, Arizona. Devoted gra
 SIEGEL MILLS-Gladys. At 94. On Saturday, October 7, 2000. A lifelong New Yorker. Wife of the late Samuel W. Siegel. She is survived by her daughters Judith Lippman, of Baltimore and Vivian Meyers of Westport, CT, a sister Florence Manning of Boca Raton, her grandchildren Kenneth, Mandy, Sar
 BORGE-Sanna Sarabel. Beloved wife of entertainer, Victor Borge, died at their home in Greenwich, CT, on September 19th. Born in Otwell, Indiana, the former Sarabel Scraper started her own business representing commercial artists in Chicago, Illinois. There she met Victor Borge, at which poi
 BULLATY-LOMEO-Sonja. Evelyne Z. Daitz and The Witkin Gallery wish to express their condolences to Angelo Lomeo at the passing of Sonja Bullaty. She will always be remembered through her photographs and her personal warmth.       
 CAPLAN-Deborah. Age 69, died in NYC on October 8. The wife of H. Lawrence King and the mother of Aaron and Leah Caplan, she is survived by them and by her brothers, Thomas, Jonathan, and Timothy Frank, and numerous nephews and nieces. A distinguished teacher and practitioner of physical the
 GOMBOROW-Abraham Samuel. On Monday, October 9, of Brookline, MA. Beloved son of the late Joel & Jessie (Green) Gomborow. Dear brother of the late Emma Ehrlich and her husband Louis Ehrlich and three siblings who died at birth. Mr. Gomborow was one of the original Jewish settlers in Jerusale
 HILL-Ernestine M. The entire Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University community is deeply grieved at the loss of our very dear friend and colleague. We will miss ''Ernie,'' a gracious lady who was always there to help all of us with her wisdom and compassion. We offer our h
 HURD-Jeanne O'Neal. On Oct. 9, 2000 as the result of a stroke on Sept. 29. Former wife of the late Charles P. Hurd, beloved mother of Jeanne and Patricia of N.Y.C & River Vale, N.J. Aunt to six loving nieces & nephews and mother-byproxy to many other daughters & sons. Born in Washington, D.
 LEBEDOFF-Mary. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Mary Lebedoff, our esteemed colleague. Mary was a member of the National Board and was a National Vice President. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nati
 LOWE-Jeanette Marmott. With heavy hearts and profound sadness we mourn the loss of Jeanette Marmott Lowe (Beauty), October 8, 2000. Precious mother of Gail Lowe Maidman (Richard), devoted grandmother of Starr Elizabeth Haymes and Evan Adam Haymes, sister of Edith Bloch, Perry Zitter, and th
 OLTARSH-Elaine. The Sisterhood of the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue mourns the loss of our devoted Board member and extends condolences to her bereaved family. Irma Lopes Cardozo, Carla S. Schein, Co-Presidents       
 SIEGEL MILLS-Gladys. At 94. On Saturday, October 7, 2000. A lifelong New Yorker. Wife of the late Samuel W. Siegel. She is survived by her daughters Judith Lippman, of Baltimore and Vivian Meyers of Westport, CT, a sister Florence Manning of Boca Raton, her grandchildren Kenneth, Mandy, Sar
 TEMKIN-Mae Balkansky, May 12th, 1909-October 9th, 2000, in North Miami Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Victor and Susan Temkin of LA and Loni and Dr. Raymond Sherman of NYC. Adored grandmother of Cindy and Scott Katz, Jeremy and Jill Temkin, Robin and Jackie Sherman, Andrew and Beth Temkin, an
 TILLMAN-Susan. Beloved wife of the late Morty. Loving mother of Pamela and the late Jonathan. Cherished daughter of Sylvia and the late David Sverd. Dear sister of Jeffrey Sverd and sister-in-law of Barbara. Adored aunt of Peter and Farryl. Loved by all who knew her.       
 YOUNG-Ora Grill, 84, of White Plains, NY on October 3, 2000. A resident of Westchester County for 55 years, she served on the Greenburgh Board of Education for 9 years and was a founder of the Union Child Day Care Center. A graduate of Radcliffe College, she married Dennison Young, M.D. in 
 Sirimavo Bandaranaike of Sri Lanka, the first woman in the world to serve as a prime minister, died yesterday shortly after voting in Sri Lanka's elections. She was 84. Mrs. Bandaranaike's final act was to vote in a parliamentary election she hoped would return the family's party to
 Janice Brustlein, whose painting career, pursued under the name Biala, spanned two art capitals and several generations, died on Sept. 24 at her home in Paris. She was 97 and had lived in Paris since 1958. She was known for cryptic, lusciously painted interiors, still lifes, landsca
 CASEY-Sophia. Dr. David Abshire, President and CEO, The Center for the Study of the Presidency, and the Board of Trustees of the Center, observe with deep sadness the passing of a valued and cherished colleague, Sophia Casey. Mrs. Casey was a spirited supporter of the Center at its inceptio
 DENGROVE-Sylvia. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sylvia Dengrove, a long-time friend and dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation and other Jewish causes. To her sons, Jay L. and H. Bruce, and to her entire family, we extend our de
 LOWE-Jeanette Marmott. With heavy hearts and profound sadness we mourn the loss of Jeanette Marmott Lowe (Beauty), October 8, 2000. Precious mother of Gail Lowe Maidman (Richard), devoted grandmother of Starr Elizabeth Haymes and Evan Adam Haymes, sister of Edith Bloch, Perry Zitter, and th
 NAPOLI-Fannie (Eugenio). May 22, 1911-October 10, 2000. She dreamed a life. She lived the dream. She will be forever loved & missed. Viewing at the Fairchild Funeral Home, Manhasset, New York. Funeral Mass at St. Mary's Church, Roslyn, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Miami Heart Re
 KEARNS-Maud, 89. Of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, died Tuesday, October 10, 2000. at her residence. Formerly of Long Island, NY, she had been a resident of Ft. Lauderdale since 1980. She was the widow of Joseph P. Kearns and was a retired restaurateur. Survived by loving sisters, Lauraine G. Smith an
 LOWE-Jeanette Marmott. With heavy hearts and profound sadness we mourn the loss of Jeanette Marmott Lowe (Beauty), October 8, 2000. Precious mother of Gail Lowe Maidman (Richard), devoted grandmother of Starr Elizabeth Haymes and Evan Adam Haymes, sister of Edith Bloch, Perry Zitter, and th
 NAPOLI-Fannie (Eugenio). May 22, 1911-October 10, 2000. She dreamed a life. She lived the dream. She will be forever loved & missed. Viewing at the Fairchild Funeral Home, Manhasset, New York. Funeral Mass at St. Mary's Church, Roslyn, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Miami Heart Re
 REINACH - Jacquelyn (nee Krasne) died peacefully on September 30 in Los Angeles, after a brief illness. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, daughter and sister. Talented composer, writer of more than 50 books, co-creator of Sweet Pickles, music and video producer and long-time feminist. In h
 REYNOLDS-Peggy Brady. Of NYC, and Westhampton, L.I., on October 11, of heart failure after an extended illness. Survived by her husband Jack, son Thomas, grandchildren Tommy Jr., Scott and Katlyn. Predeceased by daughter Meg. Loving sister of Anne, Marion, Eileen and Joan. Classical designe
 SIEGFRIED-Gladys Dick. On October 12, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Robert and Jonathan. Dear grandmother of Amanda, David, Matthew, Jeremy and Rachel. Devoted sister of Marilyn Goldstein. Services are at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue and 65 Street, Sunday, October 
 SULLIVAN-Muriel L. Formerly of NYC, died Tuesday in Princeton, NJ. Mrs. Sullivan retired from the U.S. Naval Reserve as a Lieutenant & was a World War II veteran. She was a retired music teacher with the NYC Board of Education. The funeral will be held Saturday at 1 PM from the Lawrencevill
 WARREN-Anne Mishler, 85. Of Red Bank died Wednesday 10/11. She was the Administrative Assistant of the Training Department of Merril Lynch for many years. She was predeceased by her husband, Edward, her daughter Bette Jane Soltano. She was survived by two daughters, Wendy Tooker of Red Bank
 Sonja Bullaty, a photographer noted for lyrical composition and startling use of color and light in a vast body of work created during a five-decade collaboration with her husband, Angelo Lomeo, died on Oct. 5 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 76, and had homes
 Mireille Johnston, an author and television figure widely known for her cookbooks on French regional cuisines, died Oct. 5 at her home in Paris. She was 65. Her death was unexpected, and the cause was not immediately clear, her family said. Mrs. Johnston was born in France, 
 BENNET-Lillian. Sisterhood of Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the death of a longtime member and former president. She was a lovely and gracious lady and will be sorely missed. Matilda G. Goldberg, President       
 MEISELS-Margaret. Of Teaneck, NJ, and formerly of Los Angeles, CA, was laid to rest on Friday, October 13. Loving mother of Allen (Peggy), Steve (Jill) and Ida. Adored grandmother of Jessica, Lauren, Blair and Alexis Meisels, and Jesse Shapiro. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her,
 SIEGFRIED-Gladys Dick. On October 12, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Robert and Jonathan. Dear grandmother of Amanda, David, Matthew, Jeremy and Rachel. Devoted sister of Marilyn Goldstein. Services are at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue and 65 Street, Sunday, October 
 SPENCER-CHURCHILL-Lady Sarah. Of Old Lyme, Connecticut. Died suddenly on October 13, 2000. Mother of Serena Balfour, Consuelo Russell, Alexandra Birch and Jacqueline Williams. Sister of the Duke of Marlborough, Lady Rosemary Muir, Lord Charles SpencerChurchill & the late Lady Caroline Water
 FRANKFURT-Dora Wilkes. On October 13, 2000 at the age of 105. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Frankfurt and Harry Wilkes. Loving mother of Daniel and Ruth Frankfurt, and Dina and Daniel Katz. Proud grandmother of Judith and Jim, Jackie and Mark, Aaron and Joanne and Lila and Stuart. Great-gr
 HODGES - Kathleen. October 4. Died while brushing her teeth in her home in New York City of heart arrhythmia. She was 59 years old. Fiercely beloved mother of Jennifer Hodges of New York City and Bettina Hempel of Lausanne, Switzerland; sister to Edward DeMar and proud aunt to Julie, Beth a
 LEICHMAN - Lorraine Agnes. Peacefully at home in the arms of her beloved husband of 53 wonderful years, Carl Maclin Leichman, on October 5, 2000. Loving mother of Laurence and Andrew. Adored niece of Gertrude Salomon. Devoted friend to many. Lorraine, an effervescent woman of great charm, i
 MAGINNIS-Margaret August. On October 14, 2000, at age 98. Beloved wife of the late Thomas. Devoted mother of Margaret Singer, Nancy Davies and Thomas Maginnis. Loving aunt of Thomas August and Susan Abell. Cherished grandmother of 12 and greatgrandmother of seven. Dear sister of the late Th
 REINACH-Jacquelyn. Grieving family and friends miss her deeply. Memorial service on October 24 at 6 P.M. at Church of the Advent Hope, 111 East 87 Street.       
 SPENCER-CHURCHILL-Lady Sarah. Of Old Lyme, Connecticut. Died suddenly on October 13, 2000. Mother of Serena Balfour, Consuelo Russell, Alexandra Birch and Jacqueline Williams. Sister of the Duke of Marlborough, Lady Rosemary Muir, Lord Charles SpencerChurchill & the late Lady Caroline Water
 WHITE-Frances Barrett, educator and life partner of renowned artist, Charles White, passed away September 25, 2000. Frances' commitment to social and economic equality was marked by grace and tenacity. Born September 30, 1926, she spent her early years in Harlem with her parents, Marguerite
 WILFORD-Sophie, 86 years old of Port Washington and Glen Cove, New York. A former employee of The New York Times, she died on October 8, 2000. Wife of the late Olaf, designer for Tiffany & Company. Mother of Marion S. Quinn (John E.), Margaret Wilford-Tyson (Richard B.). Sister of the late 
 BRITAN-Dr. Ronnie Gail. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our dedicated trustee and benefactor, Gertrude Goldstein on the loss of her cherished daughter and to longtime active members Susan (Martin) Goldstein and their son, Gregory on the loss of their beloved sister a
 BULLATY-Sonja. With great sorrow, all of us at the International Center of Photography note the passing of Sonja Bullaty. Her warmhearted cheerfulness and love of photography were a constant in the field for many years. She will be sorely missed and we extend our deep condolences to Angelo 
 COLFIN-Sylvia (Sally). February 13, 1919 to October 15, 2000. Civilian Employee for US Army during WWII with Artist Corps. Was first secretary to Willard Cummings' Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. During a 52 year marriage to Abe Colfin she was a devoted wife and mother. She was 
 FARBER-Bernice on October 15. Married to her beloved late husband from 51 years. Devoted mother of Michael & Millie, Steven & Susan and Larry & Barbara. Adored grandmother of Ethan, Aaron, Daniel, Alex, Julie and Rachel. Donations to National Yiddish Book Center, 1021 West St., Amherst, MA.
 FRINTZILAS-Margaret. On October 14, 2000. In her 73rd year. Retired research chemist. Beloved daughter of the late Helen and John. Loving sister of George, Gus and the late Peter. Dear aunt of John, Julie, Virginia and Matthew. Reposing at Thomas M. Quinn and Sons, Inc., 35-20 Broadway (cor
 HRBEK-Anne B. (O'Connell), 87, of Forked River, New Jersey. Died Saturday at home. She was born in New York City and lived in Cambria Heights, New York before moving to Forked River in 1967. She was a communicant of St. Pius X Roman Catholic Church in Forked River since 1967. She was also a
 SACHS-Hilda. Age 89. Died quietly at her home, on Sunday, October 15. Beloved wife of Edgar Sachs. Loving mother of Stephen. She was a prolific writer and lyricist, a former member of the editorial staff of House & Garden Magazine and a prominent and highly respected publicist in the Home F
 SIEGEL-Lillian. Age 87. Of Delray Beach, FL. Predeceased by her husband George. Survived by daughter Barbara and Martin Finch of Minneapolis, MN., grandchilden Helaine (Jess) Bolter, Stephen Finch of Minneapolis, MN. and Jamie and Daniel Siegel of Baldwin, N.Y., and great granddaughters May
 WELSH-Dorothy Jean Bristol. Of Remsenburg, NY, formerly of Forest Hills, died October 14, 2000. She is survived by two children, Elizabeth Welsh Ahnell and James Winfield Welsh III; her sister Elizabeth B. Evans of Santa Barbara, CA, and six grandchildren. Memorial Service will be held on T
 WYNTER-Maureen Taitt. Passed away on October 13, 2000. She was the daughter of the late Arthur and Marjorie Taitt of Bridgetown, Barbados. Maureen resided in Long Island, N.Y. for the past 31 years, where she was a nurse at Mercy Hospital. Survivors include daughter Lisa, sister Marion, bro
 CARABUENA-Joy Leticia (Woodcock). Of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Died on October 15, 2000 at the age of 32. She is survived by her husband, Adam Woodcock, mother, Leticia, father, Cesar, two brothers, John and Glen, and one sister, Jean Marie Carabuena. Friends may call at the Yannantuono Funeral Ho
 FRUMKIN-Miriam. We mourn the passing of the mother of our esteemed member Gail Notovitz and pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck Yaacov Lerner, Rabbi Michael Frank, President FRUMKIN-Miriam. Great Neck Synagogue notes with so
 GRANDIS-Joan E. March 18, 1932-October 16, 2000. Assistant Director of Speech Improvement for New York City Board of Education, will be missed by her devoted husband Paul, 45 years of marriage, and all who knew her as a kind, scholarly and compassionate person. Taught at Hunter College and 
 HIRSCH-Francys. With profound sorrow, we announce the passing of our dear mother, grandmother and great-grandmother-Oma-who passed on peacefully in Netanya, Israel on October 17, 2000 at the age of 101. A Holocaust refugee, orphaned by the Nazis, Francys came to the United States in 1939 wi
 HRBEK-Anne B. We all extend our deepest sympathy to Barbara Hrbek Zucker and family on the passing of her mother Anne. David & Laurie Zucker Lederman Barbara & Wayne Albinder David & Dana Zucker       
 HUGHES-Ruth Hurley. October 15, 2000. Wife of David H. Hughes. Daughter of Patrick J. and Ruth Wilson Hurley. She is survived by her husband, eight children, David, Wilson, Ian, Peter, Graeme, Cecily and Ruth Hughes, and Anne Kieve. Also eleven grandchildren, and a sister, Patricia Hurley, 
 KAYE-Anne. On Oct. 12, 2000, of congestive heart failure. She was President of Kay Preparations, a cosmetics firm, & a formulator of products. Survived by her cousins and friends. Memorial Service, Lincoln Guild House, 303 West 66 Street, Sunday, Oct. 22 at 11 AM.       
 KINGSLAND-Elizabeth Corbin. Passed away peacefully October 15, 2000, in New York City. She leaves behind a son, Nicholas Corbin Kingsland, of Washington, D.C., & a daughter, Lucia Gesinus Visser, of Versoix, Switzerland. She was devoted to both, and they will both miss her very much. She wi
 MONTGOMERY-Marion, 74. Of Fair Haven, N.J. died at home October 15, 2000. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., she lived in Rumson, N.J. and the surrounding area for 60 years and had a residence in Vero Beach, FL. She was an artist, writer, homemaker and, for fifteen years, the owner of the Screen Door.
 SACHS-Hilda. Age 89. Died quietly at her home, on Sunday, October 15. Beloved wife of Edgar Sachs. Loving mother of Stephen. She was a prolific writer and lyricist, a former member of the editorial staff of House & Garden Magazine and a prominent and highly respected publicist in the Home F
 SNITOW-Virginia Levitt. On October 16, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Mother of Ann and Alan. Grandmother of Tania. Services Wednesday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. SNITOW-Virginia. The Officers and membership of the American Jewish Congress expres
 Gwen Verdon, whose high-kicking artistry, flaming red hair and head-turning figure made her an unforgettable presence in musicals like ''Can-Can,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''Chicago,'' died yesterday in Woodstock, Vt. She was 75 and had homes in Bronxville, N.Y., and Quogue, N.Y. She d
 Julie London, whose understated voice and striking honey-blond appearance made her one of the top female vocalists of the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 74. Miss London, who lived in the San Fernando Valley, suffered a stroke five years ago and
 Lady Sarah Consuelo Spencer-Churchill, a volunteer worker who was a cousin of Winston Churchill, died on Friday in Middletown, Conn. She was 78 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Her family said she died during surgery. Lady Sarah was a sister of John George Vanderbilt Henry Spencer-Churc
 CANTOR-Dorothy. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Dorothy Cantor. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Bernard Steinweg, President David Hershberg, Secretary     
 CANTOR-Dorothy Van Brink, 77. Of Greenwich, Ct and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, passed away Saturday, Oct. 14. Mrs. Cantor, a native of New York City, she was active in volunteer work in Greenwich, CT. She was an avid reader who also traveled the world extensively. She is survived by her husband 
 FISHER-Joan Edwards. October 16, 2000. Aunt of Julia Fisher White. She is also survived by her cousins, Edward C. Johnson III, Elsie P. Mitchell and Peter Johnson. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 KAYE-Anne. On Oct. 12, 2000, of congestive heart failure. She was President of Kay Preparations, a cosmetics firm, & a formulator of products. Survived by her cousins and friends. Memorial Service, Lincoln Guild House, 303 West 66 Street, Sunday, Oct. 22 at 11 AM.       
 MILLER-Carolyn Seiden. On October 18, 2000. An independent women of courage and great strength. Her life was her family; to her grandchildren-Stephen, Jenny, Katie and Jonathan-she promised the stars, and they gave her the universe. She leaves behind her loving daughters Barbara Behar and J
 MILTON-Sybil. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourns the untimely passing of its Archives Consultant, Sybil Milton. A most distinguished archivist and historian, she brought a range of expertise unmatched in her fields, and was of invaluable help to us in framing our 
 OLTARSH-Elaine. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 SNITOW-Virginia. The Trustees of the Hunter College Foundation and the entire college community mourn the loss of Virginia Snitow (nee Levitt), who was a tireless supporter of the college and its mission of research, education and service. An alumna and founding member of the Hunter College
 STEINBERG-Annette (nee Gruder) ''Connie''. Passed away on Monday, October 16, 2000 after a very long illness. Sister of the late Beatrice Steiner and Leon Gruder. Survived by Herman Gruder, Vivian Gruder, Ruth and Moe Rimler, nieces and nephews. Services at Gramercy Park Funeral Chapel, 2nd
 VERDON-Gwen. Nicole and Jim, our prayers are with you. Gwen was to us, a very special, caring lady who we loved and admired for many years. Her memory will always be with us. Aaron and Elaine Shapiro VERDON-Gwen. Our deepest sympathy to Jim and Nicole. Gwen, for over 40 years, was n
 ROCHLIN-Paul. You live forever in my dreams-bathed by the lambent Bermuda Sea, warmed by her golden sands. Marjorie.       
 STEEL-Courtney. The soul takes flight to the world that is invisible but there arriving she is sure of bliss and forever dwells in paradise.       
 BERGER-Ruth M. Of South Salem, NY, died peacefully at home on October 18, surrounded by her loved ones. She was, and always will be, the beloved and adored wife of Alan and adored and cherished mother of Danielle. Our hearts ache with the suddenness and shock of losing you. You brought from
 FINKLESTEIN-Marilyn. We are saddened beyond measure at the passing of our beloved friend, ''Malk''. So many years, so many memories, and such pleasure in knowing and loving ''Malk'' and her husband Howard. We send our deepest condolences to their children, Beverly and Jane, and their grandc
 FRASER-Ann Brewer, 98, surrounded by family, died peacefully on Sunday, October 15th in her beloved cabin in Newcomb, NY. She was married to George E. Brewer, Jr. for 45 years and is survived by her daughters, Effie Kimball, Ann Knox, her daughter-in-law Charlotte Brewer, 13 grandchildren a
 GILDER-Bea. We greatly mourn the passing of our longtime Board member. She contributed much to the organization's growth, serving faithfully and loyally as President of our Essie Bierman League, of which she was a co-founder, for over 30 years. She will be missed by all. She is survived by 
 GUINTA-Jacqueline. The Board, Staff and neighbors of HamiltonMadison Settlement House mourn the passing of Jackie, an employee of this Settlement House for almost 30 years. She was one of the most loved workers at this Settlement and will be missed by all. Our sincerest sympathy and prayers
 HORN-Jacqueline L. Jacqueline L. (Jackie) Horn, 69, of Lee's Summit, MO died October 17, 2000 at home. Services will be 1 P.M. Saturday, October 21 at the Lee's Summit Community Church, Lee's Summitt, MO. Cremation, with interment at Longview Memorial Gardens. Visitation will be 7-8:30 P.M.
 SCHREIBER-Alfred. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Alfred Schreiber beloved husband of our devoted member Evelyn Schreiber. Deepest sympathy to her, her daughter Linda Bejoian, grandchildren Tyler and Kasper, and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Je
 SEGAL-Alix Hegeler. Beloved wife of Joel Segal. Loving mother of Hilary Good and Brian Good. Stepmother of Mark Segal and Gregg Segal. Grandmother of Nina Segal. Alix passed away peacefully in her home in New York City on October 18, 2000. Alix will be in all of our hearts forever. Alix gra
 VERDON-Gwen. The family of Peter Gennaro expresses its deepest sympathy to Nicole and her family. Our dear Peter respected, admired and loved Gwen throughout his lifetime. We join you in mourning her loss. VERDON-Gwen. Nicole and Jim, our prayers are with you. Gwen was to us, a very special
 FREIBERG-Sylvia 7/15/11-10/20/98 Having grown up poor in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, she never lost her social conscience. We miss her humor and her insights during this election and throughout the year. Life isn't the same without her. The Family       
 Jean Peters, a 20th Century Fox contract player whose unpretentious beauty earned her leading roles in some of the top films of the late 1940's and early 50's before she abandoned her career and practically disappeared from view after a secretive marriage to the billionaire Howard Hughes, d
 BOONE-Elaine Altieri. Born April 22, 1944 in Corona, New York, died October 15, 2000 in Hilton Head, South Carolina. She lives with joy and inspiration in the hearts of her children Jennifer and Colin, husband Geoffrey, sisters Carol Ann and Vinita, father Vincent, wonderful family and frie
 RUDMAN-Maxine. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 SPORN-Shirley A. The Light of My Life. The Joy of My Life. For 55 Glorious Years and Forever. ''Sugar'' Sporn, wife of Woodrow Sporn, died yesterday after a long illness in White Plains hospital. Courageous & brave, she endured many years of silent suffering. Shirley is survived by daughter
 ZELNER-Marjorie S. Age 49. Loved and loving wife, mother and daughter. Survived by her husband Lawrence, son Jonathan and mother Judith Swirsky. Daughter of the late Dr. Leo Swirsky. Born in Brooklyn, NY and resident of Closter, NJ since 1985. Former Executive Director of The Institute for 
 Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday. She was 73. Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in
 BREWER-Ann Fraser, 98, surrounded by family, died peacefully on Sunday, October 15th in her beloved cabin in Newcomb, NY. She was married to George E. Brewer, Jr. for 45 years and is survived by her daughters, Effie Kimball, Ann Knox, her daughter-in-law Charlotte Brewer, 13 grandchildren a
 HEMINWAY - Virginia Carbery Boyd Semenenko. On September 21, 2000. Loving wife of the late John Hylan Heminway and the late Serge Semenenko. Cherished mother of Christine Semenenko. Adored grandmother of Dylan Semenenko Clark and adored mother-in-law of Anthony Eastburn Clark. Beloved siste
 KAPLAN-ALPERT-Terese. October 21, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Milton Kaplan. Devoted wife of Milton Alpert. Loving and much loved mother of Nancy, Barbara, Alan, and Suzanne. Caring mother-in-law of Peter Nagler, Scott Edinson, and Linda Kaplan. Adored grandmother of Diane and Dan Nagler
 KETIVE-Shirley ''Shirl.'' Of Fort Lauderdale, FL, on October 20. Adoring, devoted wife of the late Nathan. Beloved mother of Alice (Fred) Rudin, Harriet Lerner and Sam (Randy) Ketive. Revered grandmother of Mitchell and Robert Rudin, and Rebecca Rudin Schoenberg, Valerie Ann and Jacques Ler
 KINGSLAND-Elizabeth Corbin. Passed away peacefully October 15, 2000, in New York City. She leaves behind a son, Nicholas Corbin Kingsland, of Washington, D.C., & a daughter, Lucia Gesinus Visser, of Versoix, Switzerland. She was devoted to both, and they will both miss her very much. She wi
 RUDMAN-Maxine A. Of Great Neck, NY. Died peacefully in her sleep the morning of the 20th of October in her 70th year. She was, and always will be, the beloved wife of Burton for almost 50 years; devoted daughter of Sophie Field, treasured sister of Douglas Field; cherished mother of Ellis, 
 SPORN-Shirley A. The Light of My Life. The Joy of My Life. For 55 Glorious Years and Forever. ''Sugar'' Sporn, wife of Woodrow Sporn, died yesterday after a long illness in White Plains hospital. Courageous & brave, she endured many years of silent suffering. Shirley is survived by daughter
 ULIUS-Jeanne (Eugenie Eliscu). 98 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Devoted sister to Sally Piken. Adored aunt, great aunt and great great aunt. She will be sorely missed. Sunday Meet 12:30 Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave before graveside service.       
 VERDON-Gwen. The Trustees, Alumni, Faculty and Students of Hamilton College extend their deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Gwen Verdon, who honored us by receiving an honorary degree in 1988. Her talent and humanity inspired us all.       
 ZELNER-Marjorie. We mourn the passing of Marjorie Zelner, wife of our friend and business partner Larry Zelner. Marjorie's friendship, integrity, competence and family devotion set an example for all who knew her. May Larry and her son Jonathan draw consolation from the close and loving rel
 ZELNER-Marjorie S. Age 49. Loved and loving wife, mother and daughter. Survived by her husband Lawrence, son Jonathan and mother Judith Swirsky. Daughter of the late Dr. Leo Swirsky. Born in Brooklyn, NY and resident of Closter, NJ since 1985. Former Executive Director of The Institute for 
 ZIMMERMAN - Elaine Beverly Wolf. Passed away October 20, 2000. Beloved and cherished wife of Dr. Theodore Zimmerman. Loving mother of Rick, Jacqui, Ron and Deborah Zimmerman. Devoted sister to Renee Wolf Steinberg. Adoring grandmother to David, Aaron, Ezra and Joseph Zimmerman. Services wil
 Jacquelyn Reinach, a writer, composer, television producer and co-creator of the ''Sweet Pickles'' series of children's books, which featured characters like Accusing Alligator and Smarty Stork, died on Sept. 30 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said
 Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later was editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday. She was 73. Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alask
 BENDER-Betty. Died October 21, 2000. She was 95 years old and lived in New York City until moving to Scottsdale, AZ, in 1997. Her family and friends mourn the loss of a woman of great love and spirit. Her love of learning, music and art, and of New York, enriched and inspired all who knew h
 FRIEDMAN-Blanche. 90, died peacefully in her home October 20, 2000. She is survived by Israel, her beloved husband of 63 years, her daughter Lois Friedman of New York City, her son Dr. Matthew Friedman of Longmeadow, MA, and her cherished grandchildren Jessica Hutchins of Manhattan Beach, C
 KETIVE-Shirley ''Shirl.'' Of Fort Lauderdale, FL, on October 20. Adoring, devoted wife of the late Nathan. Beloved mother of Alice (Fred) Rudin, Harriet Lerner and Sam (Randy) Ketive. Revered grandmother of Mitchell (Bonnie) and Robert (Alissa) Rudin, and Rebecca (Robert) Schoenberg, Valeri
 NEWMAN - Ida. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our generous benefactor William Newman and of our esteemed Honorary Chairman of the Board and generous benefactor Melvin D. Newman. The Morris and Ida Newman Education Center, which houses our Upper School and
 PORTNOY-Susan E. Age 57, on October 21, 2000. Devoted daughter of Sara and the late Louis David Portnoy. Loving sister of Robert Portnoy of Plantation, FL, and Sharon Siegel of Forest Hills, NY, and aunt of Jessica Siegel, Leah Beth Portnoy and Michael Portnoy. Cherished companion of Jeffre
 ROCKICIOLI-SILK-Catherine M. (nee Troccoli). On October 21, 2000. She had a distinguished career as one of the first women to have her own fashion business on 57th Street. Inaugural gowns she made for Eleanor Roosevelt are part of the First Ladies Collection at the Smithsonian Institute. Sh
 FEINBERG-Mary-Ellen (nee Fertel), beloved wife, sister, mother & grandmother, died the morning of October 23. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harvey Feinberg, her sisters, Myra Kaplan and Judith Davilman, her children, Monica and Jeffrey Cohen and Jessica and Kenneth Lesnik, and grandch
 GLICKMAN-Sara. The Board of Directors and Staff of Family Focus Adoption Services mourn the loss of our Board member and friend, and one of the founding Board members of our agency, Sara Glickman, who died yesterday. Sara was a tireless adoption advocate and activist who worked as an Adopti
 GOLDSTEIN-Ethel. Died October 20, 2000 at 93 years old. Beloved mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, friend and colleague. She was a loving support to all who knew her, a pioneer who began her second career at age 60 at N.S. Bienstock where she remained until age 93. Her memory and spirit
 HENDRICKSON-Rita G. Goodbye, Rita. A good family friend for over ninety years. We will always remember your stories about your early years on East 88th Street ....your big sister, enjoying a little beer and some Limburger cheese with black radish on black pumpernickel with your father. Sorr
 KETIVE-Shirley. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Alice and Fred Rudin, Harriet Lerner, Randy and Sam Ketive, all of her treasured grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. May you take comfort in the fact that she is at peace. Carol and Richard Kalikow       
 KNOX-Jeanne M. (formerly Loeb). Of Longboat Key, FL, on October 22. She is survived by her daughters Bonnie Strauss of NYC, Nancy Rackoff of Pittsburgh, PA, and her son Thomas Loeb of Weston, CT. She is also survived by six grandchildren. Graveside services for family and friends will be he
 MENSCH - Constance (nee Giobbe). On Oct. 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Homer. Loving sister of Susan Dull. Dear cousin of Gloria Ficalora. President of the Board of Trustees, The Dalcroze School of Music, President of The Bohemians, Chairman of the Young Artists' Committee of the Musicians' Clu
 NEWMAN-Ida. Beloved wife of the late Morris B. Newman and mother of William (Anita), the late Joseph (Rosalyn) and Melvin (Carol). A devotee of Hebrew language and culture, she lived a long and fruitful life. She was a patron of Jewish education and pursued knowledge until her final days. S
 PORTNOY-Susan Elaine. On October 21st, 2000. Beloved daughter of Sara Portnoy. Dear sister of Sharon Siegel and brother Robert Portnoy. Loving nieces Jessica Siegel, Leah Beth Portnoy and nephew Michael Portnoy. She will be greatly missed.       
 SWAN-Louis. Of Freeland, WA, and formerly of Old Bethpage, Long Island on October 15, 2000 at the age of 46. Devoted and adored wife of Todd, cherished daughter of Mildred and the late Abraham Goldstein of New York City. Beloved sister of Fredricka Stillman, Karen Ferber and David Goldstein
 WARKENTIN-Helene Enright. Of Haymarket, VA., passed away peacefully on Friday, October 20th, 2000 at the Halquist Memorial Hospice Center in Arlington, VA. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, New Milford, CT and Mt. Kisco, NY, she was 91. She was the beloved wife for 27 years of the late William Jenn
 ZIMMERMAN-Elaine. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Elaine Zimmerman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Theodore, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler,
 Sybil H. Milton, a leading scholar of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and a senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died on Oct. 16 in the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. She was 59. Dr. Milton, who lived in
 BOYLE-Margaret Mary. October 21, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late Austin and Margaret Boyle. Loving sister of the late James A. Boyle. Devoted aunt of Margaret Birckhead of Richmond, VA. and Sean Morkan of Jupiter, FL., Adam Morkan of Indialantic, FL. Friends may call at the Abbey Funeral
 FEINBERG-Mary-Ellen (nee Fertel), beloved wife, sister, mother & grandmother, died the morning of October 23. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harvey Feinberg, her sisters, Myra Kaplan and Judith Davilman, her children, Monica and Jeffrey Cohen and Jessica and Kenneth Lesnik, and grandch
 GLICKMAN-Sara G. Age 77. Beloved wife of Arthur, devoted mother of Alan R. Glickman, Mindy Gelok, the late Marcia Ann and Norman. Sara revolutionized the entire foster care industry in the United States. Since 1967, her untiring lobbying has led to over 150, 000 children being adopted out o
 KNOX-Jeanne M. (formerly Loeb). Of Longboat Key, FL, on October 22. She is survived by her daughters Bonnie Strauss of NYC, Nancy Rackoff of Pittsburgh, PA, and her son Thomas Loeb of Weston, CT. She is also survived by six grandchildren. Graveside services for family and friends will be he
 MENSCH - Constance (nee Giobbe). On Oct. 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Homer. Loving sister of Susan Dull. Dear cousin of Gloria Ficalora. President of the Board of Trustees, The Dalcroze School of Music, President of The Bohemians, Chairman of the Young Artists' Committee of the Musicians' Clu
 MILTON-Dr. Sybil. Agudath Israel of America notes with sorrow the passing of this uniquely gifted historian. Her creative encouragement of the study and preservation of Jewish heritage, including the establishment of the Orthodox Jewish Archives of Agudath Israel of America, is her noble le
 MURRAY-Genevieve L., 91. Of Glastonbury and Windsor, CT, formerly of New York City, died October 21, 2000. Daughter of James and Elizabeth Clemens Murray, she grew up in Hartford and was later employed by the City of New York as a secretary at Bellevue Hospital. She leaves a niece Susan Pot
 PRUSSLIN-Hilda (Danziger). Of Brooklyn, NY. Suddenly and peacefully passed away in her sleep on Oct. 23. Survived by her beloved husband Herbert, loving children Norman, Marc and Gail Prusslin, daughter-in-law Susan Risoli, son-in-law Michael Yellin, grandchildren Hannah, Rebecca, Allison, 
 RUDMAN-Maxine Field. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Maxine Field Rudman beloved daughter of our devoted member and Sisterhood Trustee Sophie Field. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice 
 MILTON-Sybil H. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of former colleague, Sybil Milton and extends its deepest condolences to her husband, Henry Friedlander. Rabbi Irving Greenberg, Chair Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director United States Holocau
 BASRI-Albert. Young Israel of 5th Avenue mourns the death of the father of our esteemed member Carole Basri and extends to her its condolences. Israel Wohlgelernter, Rabbi       
 BOYLE-Margaret Mary. October 21, 2000. Beloved daughter of the late Austin and Margaret Boyle. Loving sister of the late James A. Boyle. Devoted aunt of Margaret Birckhead of Richmond, VA. and Sean Morkan of Jupiter, FL., Adam Morkan of Indialantic, FL. Friends may call at the Abbey Funeral
 DAVIS-Melissa Grant. Died Oct. 21, 2000. Beloved by her friends and family: husband, father, stepmother, sisters, brother, in-laws, niece, nephew & extended others. She was a wonderful woman who will be deeply missed. Love, Adele and Bill Grant.       
 GILLETTE-Frances, 88, New York resident for over 60 years. Custom-clothing seamstress for theater, television and show business personalities. Travelled extensively in Europe and patron of the arts. Sister of the late Myra Harper Boland. Survived by her niece Mrs. Duane T. Kinsman of Fairfa
 MENSCH - Constanc e (nee Giobbe). On Oct. 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Homer. Loving sister of Susan Dull. Dear cousin of Gloria Ficalora. President of the Board of Trustees, The Dalcroze School of Music, President of The Bohemians, Chairman of the Young Artists' Committee of the Musicians' Cl
 ULLMAN-Emily, 87, o f Port Washington, NY, died peacefully in her sleep at home on October 25. Emily was a wonderful wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother who led an extraordinary life. Her strength, intellect and compassion touched many. She devoted much of her life to charitable 
 WEINER-Josephine. The National Board of the National Council of Jewish Women is deeply saddened by the loss of a distinguished leader and dear friend, Josephine Stern Weiner. As NCJW President from 1967-1971 she set an extraordinary example by her dedication to improving the lives of women,
 BASRI-Dr. Albert. Young Israel of 5th Avenue mourns the death of the father of our esteemed member Carole Basri and extends to her and the family our heartfelt condolences. Israel Wohlgelernter, Rabbi       
 BRAHMS-Karen Allison, daughter of Ronnie Brahms and the late Ruth Brahms. Sister to Claudia Brahms Mount and brother-in-law, Noel Mount. Karen was a successful research consultant. She conducted business seminars throughout the country. She was greatly respected by her clientele. Karen was 
 GINSBERG-Edith. Approaching her 95th year. Wife of the late Louis Ginsberg, poet. Mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, friend and a woman of distinction to all who knew her.       
 GLICKMAN-Doris. Of Englewood, NJ. Beloved wife of Loren. Devoted mother of Ronald. Dear sister of Joyce Bachman and Hortense Roemer. Loving grandmother of Alexandra and Melanie. Services ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave, NY, Friday 11:15AM. GLICKMAN-Doris. The Board, staf
 GOLDBERG-Rose Zornberg. On Oct. 26, 2000. Beloved mother of Marcia L. Greenbaum and her companion Dale Bairstow, David J. and Sharon Goldberg. Loving grandmother of Fara R. Greenbaum. Dear sister of Dr. Edward and Florence Zornberg. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Service Monday 1
 KARP-Mary Anne. The administration, staff and families of P.S. 226M mourn the passing of our beloved colleague and dear friend Mary Anne Karp. She will be deeply missed.       
 PROTTER-Sylvia. Mrs. Sylvia Alter Protter, died October 23, 2000 after a short illness. Survived by her children Iska and Bernard Alter, and her grandsons Ethan and Jesse. Funeral October 27, Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Second Ave. at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, a contribution in her 
 SCHINDLER - Rosemarie. Our heartfelt condolences to Charles, Diana and Carl Giuseppone as well as her most cherished grandchildren, Katie and David. Take comfort in the fact she is at peace. Carol and Richard Kalikow       
 SCHREIBER-Lillian T. Widow of Morris Schreiber. Retired New York City teacher. Died October 24 in Los Angeles. Survived by her son Harvey Keith (Los Angeles); her sister, Gertrude T. Greenberg (Reston, VA) and her brother Matthew Turetsky (Hollywood, FL). Her family and friends will always 
 STONE-Edith Wood Pershouse, October 6, 2000 at Goodwin House West, Falls Church, VA. Born NYC March 10, 1905. Daughter of Dr. Francis Carter Wood and Edith Sterling Wood. Wife of the late Aubrey Pershouse and the late Bradford W. Stone. She is survived by a brother, a sister, two children; 
 Dr. Miriam M. Salpeter, a neurobiologist whose research contributed to the understanding and treatment of neuromuscular disorders like myasthenia gravis, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. A resident of Ithaca, she was 71. The cause was thyroid cancer, her fami
 BERNSTEIN - Florence (Book man), 89, Friday, Oct. 27. Beloved wife of the late Gad Bernstein. Devoted mother of Ellen Joy of Williamstown, MA,. & stepmother of David L. (Deborah Brudno) of Washington, DC. Loving aunt and friend. Memorial service Sunday October 29, 3 PM, The Riverside 180 We
 BROWNSTONE-Mina. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the passing of Mina Brownstone Abramowitz, National Promotion Director, 1938-1981. Her unique, creative talents in print and film enabled us to reach untold numbers of new members and donors. Bonnie Lipton, Natio
 GLICKMAN-Doris. Convener of Congenial Souls, who seasoned her banquets with love. Irene and David Tiersten.       
 GOLDBERG - Rose (Zornberg). Shalom-Fannie Zornberg Group of Hadassah mourns the passing of Rose Zornberg Goldberg whose distance did not lessen her dedication to Hadassah, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the family. Sarah Neumark and Flo Zornberg Co-Presidents       
 GOLDSMITH-Alice L. On October 26, 2000. Beloved wife of the late John J. Loving mother of John C. & Peter B. Devoted grandmother and great grandmother. Funeral services are private. GOLDSMITH-Alice. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the pas
 SCHINDLER - Rosemarie. Our heartfelt condolences to Charles, Diana and Carl Giuseppone as well as her most cherished grandchildren, Katie and David. Take comfort in the fact she is at peace. Carol and Richard Kalikow       
 SCHNEIDERMAN-Yetta. On October 26, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Will. Loving mother of Brenda and Ely Lurin, Michael and Paula, and Lois Glickson. Dear sister of Mac Goldin. Cherished grandmother of Marcia, Scott, Eileen, Brian, Joe, Jay, and Julie. Adoring great-grandmother of Lily. She 
 BADGER-Mary Elizabeth ''Liz'' passed away unexpectedly on October 21, 2000, at the age of 68. Liz was born in New York City, the daughter of James and Alicia Owens Boeri. Liz was a graduate of Middlebury College and received her Doctorate in Educational Psychology at the University of Londo
 BERNSTEIN - Florence (Book man), 89, Friday, Oct. 27. Beloved wife of the late Gad Bernstein. Devoted mother of Ellen Joy of Williamstown, MA,. & stepmother of David L. (Deborah Brudno) of Washington, DC. Loving aunt and friend. Memorial service Sunday October 29, 3 PM, The Riverside 180 We
 BRAHMS-Karen Allison. Karen was a special loving friend to Michael Netski, and daughter of Ronnie Brahms. Karen gave us wisdom and happiness. Her love & wonderful words will be with us always. Donations in her memory for establishment of Melonoma Research Fund, Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
 BRODSKY-Anne Peshkin. October 23, 2000. Cherished wife of the late Abraham Brodsky, beloved mother of Judith Schneider and Joan Aaronson, adored ''Nana'' to six grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Co-founder of the Brooklyn Psychiatric Centers, active in Hadassah, UJA Speakers Burea
 FRIEDLANDER-Nora. Beloved friend. Died the morning of October 26, 2000. We will greatly miss her vitality, warmth and musicmaking, but her gentle spirit will always be with us. Rebecca Osborn       
 GARFINKEL-Sarah (''Sid''). Age 91, on October 28. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, devoted mother of Alan Garfinkel (Ellie), and Janet Quinn (Thomas). Cherished grandmother of Ann Goodlow (Bob), Cassie Kelly (Chris), Michael Quinn (Karen), Stephen Quinn, Jim Garfinkel (Jill), Andy Garfink
 GOLDBERG-Rose Zornberg. On Oct. 26, 2000. Beloved mother of Marcia L. Greenbaum and her companion Dale Bairstow, David J. and Sharon Goldberg. Loving grandmother of Fara R. Greenbaum. Dear sister of Dr. Edward and Florence Zornberg. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Service Monday 1
 MEYRICH - Geraldine Caroline (nee Ehrman). Dearest adored wife of Fred for 60 years. Devoted mother of Gerry, Nancy, Ann and Steven. Beloved grandmother of Erik, Joanna, Julie, Jennifer, Caitlin and Ariana and great-grandmother of Carolyn. Dearest mother-in-law of Leopold Hahn, Richard Kras
 ROSENBAUM-Sally. September 15, 1917-October 24, 2000. Beloved wife of Herbert for 59 years, devoted mother of the late Adrienne Jonay, the late Jane Rosenbaum, and Linda Rosenbaum, adored grandmother of Tal and Daniel Jonay, cherished sister of Eleanor, and loving aunt of Jean, Nancy, Nora 
 TRUNK-Cyla Baar. Born 1915 in Boryslaw, Galicia. Died before Rosh Hashana in sheltering Manhattan. An avatar of the Jewishnational - home and justice. ''...virtue and absolution kissed.'' (Psalms). ''Light of the world of life's treasure/Lights prevail summoned from mist.'' (Mahzor). Jobian
 EBERSMAN-Selma. Of New York and Bristol, RI, died October 29 in Baltimore at the age of 90. She was the daughter of the late Edward and Frances Rosenthal of New York. A retired librarian at the Rhode Island School of Design, she is survived by her son, Neil Hertz, her grandchildren, Ellen a
 FRIEDLANDER-Nora. Beloved friend. Died the morning of October 26, 2000. We will greatly miss her vitality, warmth and musicmaking, but her gentle spirit will always be with us. Rebecca Osborn       
 KREUTZER - Corinne. Beloved wife of 68 years to Stanley Kreutzer. Loving mother to Phyllis and Larry Shapiro and Cindi and Jack Finlay. Adored grandmother to Andy and Michael Shapiro and Willow Taraja. Services Monday, 1 PM, at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Rd., Great Neck. Contributions to th
 KRIEGER-Toni G. (Riesenberg). The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Harry Krieger, and the family, our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Sr. Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S.
 MEYRICH-Geraldine. We mourn the death of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 MORGAN-Phylliss Utz. Expired on October 27, 2000. A graduate of the Harlem School of Nursing. Mrs. Morgan directed the LPN Nursing Program at the Harlem YMCA. She was a longtime resident of St. Albans and Howard Beach. She will be funeralized Thursday morning, November 2, 2000, at St. Cathe
 RESSLER-Ira. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Ressler family on the loss of their beloved Ira. Warmly, Michael, Carol, Brett, and Jed Weisman RESSLER-Ira. The Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation extends our sympathy to our Board member, Debra Black, on the passing of her
 ZELDMAN-Phyllis Sylvia (Gross). Age 74, of Mt. Lebanon, PA, on Wednesday, October 25, 2000. Beloved wife of Maurice Zeldman. Loving mother of Jeffrey Zeldman of NYC, and Peter Zeldman of London, England. Sister of George E. Gross of NYC. Aunt of Nina, Rebekah and Anna Gross, all of NYC. The
 Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 61. The cause was cancer, said her daughter Naima Hazelton. Because Ms. Lee performed in two radically dif
 JENKINS-Leigh Rand. Teacher and friend. Her light will continue to shine within the hearts and minds of her colleagues, students and friends. The Department of Design for Stage and Film Tisch School of the Arts New York University       
 KARSON-SIEGEL-Yemima. Beloved wife of Benjamin Siegel and the late Leon Karson. Loving mother to Esti and her husband Eli, Gil and his wife Lisa, and the late Ronnie. Cherished grandmother of Karen, Noa, Ari, Zachary, Laura & Jeremy. Dear sister to Drora, Esther and the late Aaron. Caring s
 MARGULIES-Beatrice Prashker. On October 29, 2000 in her 82nd year, peacefully at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, New York. Beloved and loving sister of Ruth Abes, Minnie Bass and the late Abraham Prashker. Adored aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt to many. She spent her life quietly seeking to 
 TURK-Dorothy, (nee Ziff). of New York City and Putnam Valley, died on Oct. 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Everett. Devoted mother of Melissa and her husband Lee Rosenwasser. Adoring grandmother of Kate and Eliza. Funeral srvices Wednesday, November 1, 2000 at 11:30 am at Gramercy Park M
 WEBER-Tamar. July 3, 1910-October 30, 2000. We celebrate the life of a remarkable woman. Mother of Jessica and Mark. Mother-inlaw of Alan Peckolick and Karen. Grandmother of Jordana and Valerie. Widow of Wally Weber. Graduate of Wellesley/'31. Tam traveled the world in her later years with 
