 ARONSTEIN-Margery. Beloved grandmother of Jesse Kahn, devoted wife of the late late Henry Aronstein, wonderful mother of Susan Kahn, loving aunt of Randy and Ken Rogers, and beloved daughter of Stella Hartz and Nathan Voloshen. Died suddenly but peacefully on March 28, 2002. She will be dee
 HURWITZ-Ruth G. At age 91. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Irving A. Hurwitz. Cherished mother of Jane Levine and the late Stephen. Adored grandmother of Robin, Alicia and Jordan. She was actively involved with Hadassah for over 60 years as a founder and life member of its national board. She 
 KALISH-Evelyn. Of North Bergen, NJ, age 83, retired New York City social worker, died March 29, 2002, at 7 AM, of accidental injuries. She is survived by her husband Daniel, children Valerie and Vincent, and granddaughter Dr. Laura Melville. A memorial service celebrating her life will be h
 KELLNER-Zira DeFries, M.D. On Thursday, March 28, 2002, of lung cancer in Palm Beach, FL. A 1942 graduate of New York Medical College, she practiced psychiatry in New York for more than 50 years. For much of that time she directed the counseling service at Barnard College. A lifelong reside
 SIMONE-Sunnie. On March 30, 2002, at her home in Cold Spring Harbor, NY. Her love of life was unparalleled. The love that her family and friends had for her will live forever.       
 Terry Ferrer, a former education editor at Newsweek magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Feb. 12 in Charlottesville, Va., where she lived in retirement. She was 82. The cause was a thoracic aneurysm, her family said. A native of Manhattan, Miss Ferrer attended t
 AMES-Lillian. Temple B'nai Sholom mourns the loss of our dear, longtime member. Services were held at Gutterman's on Monday, April 1, 2002. May the bereaved family find solace and consolation amongst all mourners in Israel. Dr. Barry Dov Schwartz, Rabbi Dr. Alvin S. Morrison, President     
 CHILTON-Hilary. We join in the mourning of our colleague, Hilary Chilton, who served two terms as president of the Auxiliary. In her 23 years, she held numerous positions on the executive board. This dedicated volunteer touched many lives. She will be sorely missed. Our deepest condolences 
 CHOTIN-Gloria Jean. Our loving Gloria, mother of Peter and Julie, wife of the late Marvin, sister to Robert and Joan. She will be missed by her dear friends and family. Contributions can be sent to Southern Poverty Law Center, 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama 36104.       
 CLOTT-Nancy. Central Synagogue and its Sisterhood record with profound sorrow the passing of their longtime member, Ms. Nancy Clott. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President Janet Stovin, Sisterhood President       
 CORNING-Ursula. The members of The Dessoff Choirs are saddened by the loss of our former member and generous friend, Ursula. May she rest in peace. Robert P. Rainier, President       
 GEOGHAN-Helen G. On March 29, 2002 of Manhattan. Beloved daughter of the late Gertrude and William F.X. Geoghan, and sister of the late William F.X. Jr. and Margaret M. Survived by her niece, Mary Celeste Walters and nephews William F.X. III, Theodore John, and James Andrew Geoghan. Reposin
 HAYNES-Jean Reed. Died suddenly on Sunday, March 31, 2002 in New York City. Born on April 6, 1949, she was brought up in St. Louis. Was graduated with honors from Brown University where she also earned a Master's Degree and taught elementary school for several years before receiving her law
 HELLER-Edna. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Edna Heller, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her son, Richard Friedman, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 HURWITZ-Ruth G. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our esteemed colleague Ruth G. Hurwitz. She cared deeply for Hadassah, and spoke widely on its behalf. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l Presiden
 KALNICK-Helene S. On April 1, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Hon. Benjamin S. Kalnick, Mayor of Kings Point. Devoted mother of Sheila Kalnick and the Hon. Michael Kalnick. Cherished grandmother of Kenneth J. Benson, Scott H. Benson, Wendy Kalnick, Keith Kalnick and great grandmother of Tori
 KROCHMAL-Lea. Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Tireless worker for Israel. Will be forever missed by everyone she touched. Shiva will be at 4819 Bay Parkway, Brooklyn (Avenue J) from Thursday evening through Wednesday morning, 718-951-0040.       
 PLESHETTE - Marjorie. The Trustees and staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of Marjorie Pleshette, our devoted and long term Trustee and friend. Marjorie joined the Board in February 1973 and remained active until 2000. She was involved with our children,
 WALDBAUM-Beatrice Natalie, 89. March 29, 2002 on Long Island. Beloved daughter of Frances Baron & Henry Lowell Miller, cherished sister of Zyra Lourie, for nearly fifty years, loving and much loved wife of Irving I. Waldbaum, proud and adoring mother of Myra Stark and Dr. Robert S. Waldbaum
 WARD-Lucy M. April 2, 1932-March 14, 2002 Thanks be to God for her Amazing Grace.       
 CHILTON-Hilary. Her charm, her grace, her caring ways made Hilary a unique woman. We will miss her very much. Our deepest sympathies to John. Renee & Murray Nadel       
 CORNELL-Frida. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., expresses its deep sorrow at the passing of Frida Cornell, beloved wife of the late Ernest, devoted mother of Alan, loving grandmother of Lauren, Michael and his wife Kimberly and cherished great-grandmother of Chlo
 CORNING-Ursula. On March 20, 2002, in her 99th year, died peacefully in her sleep. Interment private. Memorial services at Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave. at 90th St., Monday, April 8, 11 AM. CORNING-Ursula. The Laban/ Bartenieff Institute of Movement honors the many contribut
 DOBO-Margaret Louise-''Bita'' to her family and friends passed away peacefully on April 1st, from complications following surgery. Bita was born on June 27, 1916 in New York City, the daughter of the preeminent dermatologist, Marion Baldur Sulzberger, M.D., and Edna Lowenstein Benedictus. S
 GOLDMAN-Judith. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida announce with deep regret & sorrow the passing of our dear friend and member Judith Goldman and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband Gene and their family. Robert P. Adler, Presid
 HAYNES-Jean Reed. The American Judicature Society celebrates the tragically shortened life of this remarkable woman, our first female president, whose intelligence, wit, generosity, and drive have supported and inspired our mission to promote the effective administration of justice. A born 
 KALNICK-Helene. Deepest sympathy to Sheila and the rest of the Kalnick family. We shall miss her very, very much. Mort, Jennifer, Heather, Adam and Scott.       
 KRASSNER-Cherry S. Attorney and human rights advocate, Cherry Schapiro Krassner died in FL, April 1 after a valiant fight against injuries from a car accident in Nov. Beloved wife of Albert for 52 years, loving mother of Meri, April, Perry, Jeri & Veri. Devoted mother-in-law to James Chubin
 SHEPPARD-Janie Mack. Born November 10, 1954, died suddenly March 22, 2002 at home in Warren, R.I. Survived by her mother Aileen Salines, her sister Claudia Nan Mack, her step-mother Joan Mack, and her two half brothers Stephan Dubowski and Timothy Mack. She will be missed by her family, her
 ALLENDE-Petra. The Institute for the Puerto Rican/Hispanic Elderly and the Hispanic Senior Action Council mourn the loss of our good friend, senior advocate and associate, who gave so much of herself to helping others to improve their quality of life. We will always think of her with love, 
 CHARNEY-Hanna Kurz. A longtime French and comparative literature professor at Hunter College and the CUNY Graduate Center, died on March 30, 2002. She was 71. Ms. Charney began teaching at Hunter College in 1952 after she earned a Masters degree in French literature from Smith College. She 
 CORNING-Ursula. The Trustees and staff of The Nature Conservancy wish to express their deep sorrow at her passing and convey our sympathies to her family and friends. As a dedicated conservationist, Miss Corning's generosity for nearly two decades helped to preserve the countless plants, an
 GOLDMAN-Judith. With deep sorrow we announce that Judy Goldman, 63 years old, passed away April 2, 2002. Her untimely death came after her brave battle with cancer. Daughter of the late Gertrude and Moses Hornstein. For 43 years loving and much loved wife of Eugene Goldman. Proud and loving
 HALPER-Morris, M.D. Of Fair Lawn, NJ, formerly of NYC, on Wednesday, April 3, 2002. Beloved husband of June. Devoted father of Michael, Matthew and Julie Halper and her husband, Ernie Wilson. Cherished grandfather of Lee A. Wilson & Hallie N. Wilson. Services 12:30PM, Friday, April 5, 2002 
 LIEBER-Sally. 95. On March 29, 2002. Beloved mother of Louise and Milton Becker, dear sister of Harry Fisher, cherished grandmother of Paul, Ivy, David and Teri, kind great grandmother of Skyler and Brittney. She will be remembered for her tenacity, strength and generosity.       
 RUSSELL-Evelyn Upton. On Saturday, March 30, 2002. Loving wife of the late Robert Wood Russell, she was born on June 11, 1922 in Jackson, TN to the late Lillian B. and Charles T. Upton. She is survived by one daughter, Dr. Judith Evelyn Russell of NYC; two grandchildren, Hillary Smith Riple
 CHILTON-Hilary. Hilary brought a ray of sunshine with her wherever she went. Her warmth, her caring was evident even as she dealt with the sickest patients. She will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her husband, John. Tita and Joe Monti       
 CORNING-Ursula. The InterSchool Orchestras of NY mourns the passing of our dear friend, Ursula Corning. We will never forget her generosity to music and to the children of New York. Annabelle F. Prager, Founder Ann M. McKinney, Exec. Director       
 GOLDMAN-Judith. With deep sorrow we announce that Judy Goldman, 63 years old, passed away April 2, 2002. Her untimely death came after her brave battle with cancer. Daughter of the late Gertrude and Moses Hornstein. For 43 years loving and much loved wife of Eugene Goldman. Proud and loving
 HAVERSTICK-Iola Stetson, 77. Of Litchfield, CT., and formerly of New York City, died Wednesday, April 3, 2002 at Rose Haven LTD in Litchfield, following a lengthy illness. Mrs. Haverstick was born August 30, 1924 in Greens Farms, CT, daughter of the late Eugene W. & Iola Wise Stetson. Her f
 KRAUT-Lillian. Devoted wife of the late Samuel H. Schwartz and Philip Kraut. Beloved mother of Doris Brody, dear sister of Sylvia Ades Hart, cherished grandmother of Douglas and Andrea, and loving great-grandmother of Alexa, Sarina, Samuel, Harris and Hannah. Services today, 10am at ''Gutte
 MISSETT-Elizabeth Graham. Age 58 of Oakhurst NJ, died April 1, 2002. Known for her gumption, crusading spirit, kindness, and formidable organizational skills. Talented self-trained architect, devoted mother & grandmother, most recently treasurer for the Lyme Disease Association. Husband, at
 NAU-Elvire, 72. Of Asbury Park, NJ died on Tuesday, April 2. She was a loving mother, a devoted sister and a generous soul. She was a longtime housekeeper for Sonny Winters of Elberon, NJ. Her husband, Robert, died in 1988. Survivors include a daughter, Sophia Lezin, of West Orange, NJ; fou
 PERKAL-Lillie. On April 3, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Helen and Nathan Perkal. Dear sister and sister-in-law to Harry and Geri. Devoted aunt to Mitchell and Marcus. Adored by her family and friends. Services April 5th, 9:30 AM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam. Dona
 PSARROU - ANDONEDIS - Helen, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of its Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program (MMTP) in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved colleague Helen Psarrou-Andonedis, M.D., physician in charge of S
 WEINBERG-Florence (Kahn), 94. Of Lawrence, NY, passed away on April 3, 2002. She was the loving wife of Isaac Weinberg, who passed away on March 28, 2002. She is survived by her children Mike, Joan, and Stanley Kahn; her grandchildren Douglas & Stefanie Kahn of Raleigh, NC, David and Susy K
 ZORRILLA-Sonja Benjaminsson. 1916-2002. The camera pans the crowd and then freezes on the strikingly beautiful young woman waiting for the ship that will carry her to safety in New York. She has barely escaped the Nazi invasion of France and has spent the last three months in Spain hoping f
 FRIEDMAN-Clara. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Bernard and Leslie, Robert and Micki. Loving grandmother of Teri, John, Michael, Monica, David, Rachel, Deborah & Matthew. Proud greatgrandmother of Kieran and Jane. Dear sister of Frances Rubin and the late Oscar, Irving & Benjamin 
 GITELMAN-Mae. Wife of the late Judge William Gitelman, passed away on April 5. She is survived by her two daughters Jane and Betty, her grandchildren Diana, Aaron, David and Jacob and her great grandson Will. Services will be held at 2 PM, Sunday, April 7, at Gutterman's Funeral Home in Roc
 SCHEINMAN-Grace. With great sadness, The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Grace Scheinman, mother of Susan Leonard, our Middle School Director. May we all celebrate the life of Mrs. Scheinman by carrying forward her legacy of love, compassion and joy. Frank J. Carnabuci, Head
 ROSENFELD-Anne. Mom-We have the most incredible baby girl and she has your personality! Love, Debbie and Alison       
 Chaike Belchatowska Spiegel, one of the last surviving combatants of the 1943 Warsaw ghetto uprising against the Nazis, died in Montreal on March 26. She was 81. She had been hospitalized for about two years, her family said. Probably no more than 10 other combatants from th
 BEARDSLEE-Jolie A. Newman Suddenly, Sunday, March 31st, age 36. Professional producer, postproduction supervisor, graphics designer and former child actress. A native New York, her immediate survivors are her husband, Liam Muldoon Beardslee, and her mother, Beatrice Coe Newman, of New York 
 CLOTT-Nancy P. The Board of Directors, Management, Staff and Neighbors of Sutton Manor Apartments record with sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved president and neighbor, Nancy P. Clott. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family.       
 FRIEDMAN-Clara. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Bernard and Leslie, Robert and Micki. Loving grandmother of Teri, John, Michael, Monica, David, Rachel, Deborah & Matthew. Proud greatgrandmother of Kieran and Jane. Dear sister of Frances Rubin and the late Oscar, Irving & Benjamin 
 GITELMAN-Mae. Wife of the late Judge William Gitelman, passed away on April 5. She is survived by her two daughters Jane and Betty, her grandchildren Diana, Aaron, David and Jacob and her great grandson Will. Services will be held at 2 PM, Sunday, April 7, at Gutterman's Funeral Home in Roc
 KIND-Diana Streisand (1908-2002). Beloved mother of Sheldon Streisand, Barbra Streisand, & Roslyn Kind, died on March 27th in Los Angeles. She was 93 years old. In addition to her children, she leaves her dear grandchildren, Erica Needle, and Jason Gould, great-grandchildren, Haley and Max 
 McEWAN-Ruth Juliet Bell. Died peacefully March 12, 2002 in Montecito, CA. Lived most of her life in New York City and Darien, CT. Daughter of Marcus L. and Ruth B. Bell. Attended Brearley and Rosemary Hall, & graduated from Vassar in 1934. Married in 1937, Ruth was the devoted wife of the l
 SCHEINMAN-Grace. With great sadness, The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Grace Scheinman, mother of Susan Leonard, our Middle School Director. May we all celebrate the life of Mrs. Scheinman by carrying forward her legacy of love, compassion and joy. Frank J. Carnabuci, Head
 STEWART - Faith Severance Hackl. Age 93, died on March 27, 2002. She resided in Princeton, NJ. Daughter of H. Craig Severance, architect of 40 Wall Street which competed with the Chrysler Building for the tallest skyscraper in New York. She was married to George F. Hackl, Jr. former governo
 WALKER-Emily Schniewind Lee, 97, of Locust Valley, NY died Friday, April 5, 2002 at her home. She was born October 7, 1904 in New York City, the daughter of Henry Ernest and Helen (Greeff) Schniewind. She graduated from Miss Porters School at Farmington, CT and studied music in Paris. She m
 WILLIAMS-Dora duPont. Of Evanston, IL, died March 19, 2002, at the age of 90. Wife of the late Lynn A. Williams Jr.; mother of Eve (Edward) Noonan of Chicago, Ann (Bernard) Jennett of Evanston, Lynn A. Williams III of Chicago, Dora (Scott) Keller of New York City, and Susan (James) Lenfeste
 GRUMETTE-Lillian. Lillian Kehl Grumette died May 4, 2001 at the beautiful age of 91. She is survived by many family members who will love her forever.       
 CLOTT-Nancy P. The Board of Directors, Management, Staff and Neighbors of Sutton Manor Apartments record with sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved president and neighbor, Nancy P. Clott. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family.       
 GROSSMAN-Barbara. On April 6, 2002, in Hollywood, FL, at the age of 81. Beloved mother of George Grossman, Susan Walaszczyk and son-in-law Henry Walaszczyk. Adoring Nana of Stacy and Lisa Grossman, soon to be grandsonin-law Marc Hirschheimer and Leigh Walaszczyk. Her strength, devotion and 
 HAUSMANN-Ruth. 90, died April 6, 2002. Born NYC, and having worked in advertising and later as a psychotherapist, Ruth graducated Smith College summa cum laude and often remarked her happiest times were in Northampton. She is survived by her nephew Alan Herman.       
 LEE-Emily S. Turtle Bay Music School mourns with great sadness the passing of our chairman, Emily S. Lee. Em Lee joined the School's Board of Trustees in 1928 as a charter member and has remained a Trustee ever since. Her passion, vision and drive have made an indelible stamp on TBMS. Throu
 O'GRADY-Anne Hayes. 79, of 59 Winthrop Rd, Guilford, CT, died Thursday, April 4, 2002, at her home. She was born October 28, 1922, in Brooklyn, NY, the daughter of Michael and Alma Hayes. She graduated from Shore Road Academy in Brooklyn, NY, in 1940, and from Packer Collegiate Institute in
 OBERSCHALL-Eva M. Born December 6, 1910, in Budapest, Hungary, to Siegfried and Olga Kammer. Died peacefully at her home at the age of 91, on April 6, 2002, with her daughter present. She is survived by her sons Victor Oberschall of Houston, TX, and Anthony Oberschall of Chapel Hill, NC, an
 SCHEINMAN-Grace. With great sadness, The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Grace Scheinman, mother of Susan Leonard, our Middle School Director. May we all celebrate the life of Mrs. Scheinman by carrying forward her legacy of love, compassion and joy. Frank J. Carnabuci, Head
 TUCKER-Charlotte. On April 6, 2002. Beloved mother of Loni Lehman and mother-in-law of Rabbi Robert Lehman. Dear grandmother of Sharon. In times of trial she was a great source of courage. Services Monday, 2 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 USDAN-Suzanne. The Board of Directors of the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts sadly extends condolences to the famly of Suzanne Usdan and to the world of philanthropy in the arts and education. Sue Usdan was the consummate benefactor. Visionary in leadership, steadfast in v
 YAMIN-Alice. On April 4, four days short of April 8, her 97th birthday. In the memories of numerous friends and three generations of nieces and nephews.       
 María Félix, the Mexican film star whose extraordinary beauty and force of personality made her a living myth to Mexicans and a symbol of glamour and sophistication to fans throughout the world, died yesterday at her home in Mexico City. She was 87. Ms. Félix made 47 films during
 ESTABROOK-Martha Rogerson. Widow of James M. Estabrook died Saturday, April 6, 2002 at eighty-six. She was a former Chairman of Volunteers of the Nassau County Chapter of the American Red Cross and is survived by three children, four grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. In lieu of flow
 GOLDMAN-Judith. The Boys Town Jerusalem Family mourns the untimely passing of Judith Goldman, daughter of the late Gertrude and Moses Hornstein. Under the guidance of Moses, who served as Chairman of the school's Building Committee, and with the Hornsteins' generous support, the Boys Town d
 HILLMAN - Libby, nationally known cooking teacher and author, died of a heart attack April 6, 2002. She was 82 years old. She had been a cooking expert, teacher and author of five cookbooks since 1952. Libby Hillman taught adult cooking classes in the Great Neck, Long Island school system f
 ISOM-Pamela Jean (nee Hearn) was born in Houston, Texas, to Maurine H. and W. Glyn Hearn, on September 27, 1940. She graduated from Lubbock High School in 1958, then attended Texas Tech University, where she was a member of Pi Beta Phi fraternity. She graduated from North Texas State Univer
 MUSS-Ruth. The Yeshiva University family and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) mourn the passing of a deeply cherished friend, a kind, gentle, and lovely grand lady who, together with her late, beloved husband, Rabbi Hyman Muss, a member of the RIETS Board, wa
 NEWMAN-Donald H. The sister of Donald H. Newman, Margery Newman Puder, mourns with great sadness the passing of her dear brother. A Memorial Service will be arranged in May.       
 PRESS-Fanny. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Loving mother of Doris Sarokin and Morton Press. Cherished grandmother and great - grandmother. Graveside service at Riverside Cemetery, Lodi, New Jersey, at 11 A.M. on Wednesday, April 10. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 SCHWARTZ-Ann. On April 7, 2002. Cherished by her son Howard, daughter-in-law Carol, granddaughters Laura and Margot and grandson-in-law Ernest RodriguezNaaz.       
 STERN-Rose (nee Leiber). At age 93. Beloved wife of the late Adolph Stern. Devoted mother of Sandra (Leon) Rosenblatt & Gail (William) Grollman. Devoted grandmother of Geri, Nicole, Steven, Andrew, & Alisa. She will be sorely missed. Services 9:45 Tuesday ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', 
 UNGER-Minna (nee Salwen) Schwartz. Died peacefully in her 95th year. Loving mother of Sue Schwartz Gorham, the late Lawrence Schwartz, son-in-law Howard Gorham and daughter-in-law Linda Schwartz. Daughter of the late David and Florence Salwen. Adored grandmother of Sulaiha Schwartz, Eric an
 USDAN-Suzanne. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Suzanne Usdan, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Mrs. Usdan expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes through her exceptional generosity and dedi
 WELLS-Wallace Jean (Rubenstein). On March 28 after a 19month struggle with cancer. A creator of beauty, Jean enriched the lives of all around her through her love for all people, creatures, flora and fauna. She had vision, vitality, a ready smile and a positive attitude. She led diverse com
 YAMIN-Alice. On April 4, four days short of April 8, her 97th birthday. In the memories of numerous friends and three generations of nieces and nephews.       
 Christa M. Gaehde, a pioneer in the United States of effective techniques for conserving prints and drawings, died on April 3 in Arlington, Mass. She was 79 and lived in Arlington. She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor
 BAKER - Trude. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved, longtime member, Trude Baker. We will miss her loyalty to our congregation. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all her dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 BELDEN-Mary Cluett. Died in her sleep on April 3, 2002 after a long illness. Dearly beloved wife of William A. Belden and cherished mother of Catherine Cluett Belden. Will be deeply missed by devoted brother Robert Cluett IV and loving nieces Helen, Holly, and Marjorie. Also mourned by Pina
 BOEHM-Peggy (Pauline). 87. On April 8, at home after a brief illness. Creative and zany, she was an author, editor, artist, florist and skinny-dipper into her 80's. She was predeceased by her good friend, ex-husband David A. Boehm. She will be missed by her children, Lincoln (Suzy) Boehm, E
 BOWIE-Barbara Jean. On April 6th, 2002. She served for the U.S. Navy from 1956 to 1960 and the Army National Guard from 1976 to 1993. She was also employed by the City of New York Housing Authority for the past 36 years. Loving mother of Alexsandra Bowie West, mother-in-law of Derrick Logan
 FRIEDMAN-Sylvia F. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our most generous benefactor, beloved colleague and dedicated National Board member. A True woman of Valor, Sylvia Friedman epitomized warmth, compassion, loving kindness and deep devotion to Torah values, Israel and the Jewish com
 MANTELL-Dorothy (nee Fishman), on April 7, 2002, at the age of 86. Beloved wife of the late Bertram. Loving mother of Edmund, Michael, and Anna. Dear sister of Seymour Frost. Loving grandmother of David, Adam, Ruth, Laura, Deborah, Seth, Joel and Fran. She was active in civic and community 
 SALZBANK-Claire (nee Freiman). On April 8, 2002. Beloved wife of Julius for 50 years. Adored mother of Robert and Stephanie, Alan and Karen and Michael and Barbara. Devoted grandmother of Yosef, Zachary, Zev, Sara, Jackie and Lena. She will be sorely missed and yet with us forever. Services
 USDAN-Suzanne. Lincoln Center Institute records with great sorrow the sudden death of its longtime and loyal member of the Board of Trustees, Suzanne Usdan. Her commitment to the arts for children was steadfast. We express our deepest feelings of sadness to her family. Sandra Priest Rose, C
 ARMSTRONG-Nancy (Anne M.), 68, of Sea Girt, NJ, on April 9th, 2002. Matriarch, wife, and designer of homes, she died of cancer after a long illness. Committed, principled, and energetic, she never rested-excelling in an undervalued profession, parenthood. Her legacy-a marriage of 41 years t
 BOEHM-Peggy (Pauline). 87. On April 8, at home after a brief illness. Creative and zany, she was an author, editor, artist, florist and skinny-dipper into her 80's. She was predeceased by her good friend, ex-husband David A. Boehm. She will be missed by her children, Lincoln (Suzy) Boehm, E
 DREIZEN-Roslyn. On April 9, 2002. Passed away peacefully at home in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Solomon Dreizen. Adored mother of Paul, and Alan and Carol. Loving grandmother of Stefanie. Cherished aunt of Martin and Shirley, great aunt of Herbert, Harvey, Kenneth, Stephen, Lisa
 FRIEDMAN-Sylvia. Yeshiva Beth Abraham Slonim, Jerusalem deeply mourns the passing of our esteemed Board member who, together with her late husband, Moses, were generous supporters of the Yeshiva for many years. She truly leaves a void. Dina Dyckman, President Women's Division       
 GILBERT-Sandra Bertelsen. Died Tuesday April 9, 2002. She was 47. Born in Spokane, Wash, she grew up in Cromwell, MN, and Minneapolis, MN. She resided with her husband Steve and their two children, Max (12) and Peder (9) in Hopewell, NJ. In addition to her husband and sons, Sandy is survive
 GLEEKMAN-Nina R. Loving daughter of Barbara and Wallace, cherished and devoted sister of Hilary Greenberg, dear sister-inlaw of Bill Greenberg, adored and beloved aunt of Robert, David and Evan, and loyal friend. She fought a brave and courageous battle. Services 9 A.M. Plaza Memorial Chape
 O'NEILL-Margaret. On April 10, 2002. Beloved wife of Thomas Jones, graduate of Vassar College and Fordham School of Law. She will be deeply missed. Service on Sunday 11:30AM at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Ave.       
 SCHATZBERG-Arthur. Loving husband of the late Ruth. Devoted father of Francine Leichtung. Adored grandfather of Dana, Alison, Stacy and her fiance, Michael. Dear brother of Sidney. Services on Thursday, April 11th, 11 A.M., at the New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York.       
 SENFT-Rhoda F. Devoted wife of Edward Senft for over 60 years, died this morning after a long illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was a well known fashion and photographic model who appeared on the covers of several national magazines. Surviving are her husband Edward Senft, her sister Glor
 Dorothy Love Coates, a gospel singer whose gruff delivery and blazing theatrics made her one of the giants of the genre, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived most of her life. She was 74. The cause was heart disease, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and g
 ARMSTRONG-Nancy (Anne M.), 68, of Sea Girt, NJ, on April 9th, 2002. Matriarch, wife, and designer of homes, she died of cancer after a long illness. Committed, principled, and energetic, she never rested-excelling in an undervalued profession, parenthood. Her legacy-a marriage of 41 years t
 BORODIN-Virginia Wismer. Died on April 9, 2002 after a two and a half month stay at Roosevelt Hospital and the Isabella Home. Virginia was an early woman graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, MA Botany '33. Born in Philadelphia May 5, 1911 and raised in Willow Grove, PA, she lived in 
 CANTLAY-Patricia King. Died peacefully on Thursday, April 11, 2002, eleven years after she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Patty was 47. She grew up in Manhattan, attended Brearley and The Purnell School and graduated from Briarcliff College with a B.A. degree. Beloved wife of Donald Davi
 GELLER-Sylvia R. Suddenly on April 11, 2002. Wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Herbert and Kenneth, daughters-in law Nancy and Judith. Grandmother of Eric and Lisa. Friend of many. Funeral today, 11 A.M., Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd at 76 Rd, Forest Hills. Don
 O'NEILL-Margaret. On April 10, 2002. Beloved wife of Thomas Jones, graduate of Vassar College and Fordham School of Law. She will be deeply missed. Service on Sunday 11:30AM at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Ave.       
 ROOS-Roberta, Bobbi, 74. On April 10th, 2002 in Sharon, CT. Formerly of London, England and Long Island, NY. Loving mother to Andrew, Peter and the late Julie Ann, mother-in-law to Susan and Elisabeth, sister to Professor Bill Friedheim. Adored grandmother of Alexander, McAlister, Kaile, Et
 ROSS-Ginny (nee Fisher). On April 11, 2002 in her 90th year, of complications after a fall. She was a founder of the Mt. Sinai Hospital of Miami Beach, FL, a founder of the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, a board member and honorary chair of the women's division of the ADL of New York. She 
 RUDERT-Dorothy. At age 80, on April 5, 2002. Beloved wife of Anton and devoted mother of Bryce. ''Surrogate'' mother of Liliana Nealon Rother and grandmother to her children Jenni, Carl, Patti and JP. A service in celebration of her life will be held at the Manhasset Baptist Church, Manhass
 SALZBANK-Claire. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family, who together with her beloved husband Julius, was a Chai Founder of the school. The Salzbanks' valued friendship spans over two decades and their generous support has helped Boys Town fulfi
 SENFT-Rhoda F. Devoted wife of Edward Senft for over 60 years, died this morning after a long illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was a well known fashion and photographic model who appeared on the covers of several national magazines. Surviving are her husband Edward Senft, her sister Glor
 STERNMAN - Elizabeth Myers. Devoted mother of Mark Sternman and Cheryl Sternman Rule. Sister of Richard Myers. Loving grandmother of Andrew and Alex. Died April 10, of cancer. Donations in her memory to the American Cancer Society are appreciated.       
 Beverly Bower, an operatic soprano who sang the lead at the first performance in the new Metropolitan Opera House at Lincoln Center, died on March 24 at her home in Washington Township, N.J. She was 76. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Bower was born in Olean, N.Y.
 Libby Hillman, a cooking instructor and cookbook writer, died on April 6 in Bennington, Vt. She was 82 and lived in Whitingham, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, her family said. Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in 
 CANTLAY-Patricia King. Died peacefully on Thursday, April 11, 2002, eleven years after she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Patty was 47. She grew up in Manhattan, attended Brearley and The Purnell School and graduated from Briarcliff College with a B.A. degree. Beloved wife of Donald Davi
 CASSANO-Nina. On April 11, 2002. She was a former milinary designer and teacher. Loving mother of Linda Nina Cassano and Victoria Anne Cassano. Fond mother-inlaw of James McDonald. Beloved grandmother of Jonathan Cassano and Anthony McDonald. Also survived by her extended family & friends. 
 HIRSH-Dorothy (nee Shulack). On April 11, 2002. A life long resident of Great Neck and Longboat Key, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Solomon Hirsh. Loving mother of Arthur and wife Eileen, Richard & wife Marcia and Edward. Devoted grandmother of Robert, Deborah & Jenna. She was an active 
 MATLICK-Laurel Barbara. April 12, 2002. Beloved wife of Laurence. Devoted mother of Erik and wife Ali, Jessica and husband Jason, Nicole, James and Andrew. Grandmother of Zachary. Loving daughter of Grace Duell. Sister of William Simon. A beautiful and strong person who devoted her life to 
 PAOLOZZI - Countess Alicia Spaulding, died after a long illness peacefully at home. She was 84. She is survived by her daughter Francesca; five grandsons: Alexander, Christopher, Anthony, Marco and Andy; and by her two great-grandsons Jack and Devin. She had a many splendored life and many 
 PRUZAN-Hermine. 96, wife of the late Martin Pruzan, died April 10, 2002 in Myrtle Beach, SC. She was born to Hermina and Leon Falk in New York City in 1905. She spent all but the last five years of her life in New York City and New Rochelle. She was predeceased by a daughter, Mary S. Gibson
 RINGEL-Inge. Died Wednesday, April 10th, 2002 at age 74. Inky is survived by her loving husband, Robert, her children Sandy and Steve Garber and Richard and Judy Ringel and her brother and sister-in-law Fred and Linda Warner. She is also mourned by her cherished granddaughters, Danielle, Je
 ROOS-Roberta, Bobbi, 74. On April 10th, 2002 in Sharon, CT. Formerly of London, England and Long Island, NY. Loving mother to Andrew, Peter and the late Julie Ann, mother-in-law to Susan and Elisabeth, sister to Professor Bill Friedheim. Adored grandmother of Alexander, McAlister, Kaile, Et
 ROSS-Ginny. A n extraordinary woman who will be deeply missed. Our hearts go out to Stuart and Marjorie, Paul and Nancy, her grandchildren and great grandchildren. Joel, Maura, Glen, Juliet and Eric Surnamer ROSS-Ginny (nee Fisher). On April 11, 2002 in her 90th year, of complicatio
 Wilma Cannon Fairbank, a historian of Chinese art and architecture, died on April 4 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 92. Mrs. Fairbank had studied fine arts at Radcliffe College and was an apprentice to the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera before she traveled to Beijing in 1932 
 BLASER-Cathy. Passed away Friday, April 12, 2002, after a long struggle with cancer. She will be sorely missed by her mother Mary Blaser, sister Sue Miskovic, brothers Jack, Walt and Keith Blaser, many nieces, nephews and friends. Donations may be made to Cabrini Hospice, 227 E. 19th St, NY
 CANTLAY-Patricia King. Died peacefully on Thursday, April 11, 2002, eleven years after she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Patty was 47. She grew up in Manhattan, attended Brearley and The Purnell School and graduated from Briarcliff College with a B.A. degree. Beloved wife of Donald Davi
 CASSANO-Nina. On April 11, 2002. She was a former milinary designer and teacher. Loving mother of Linda Nina Cassano and Victoria Anne Cassano. Fond mother-inlaw of James McDonald. Beloved grandmother of Jonathan Cassano and Anthony McDonald. Also survived by her extended family & friends. 
 DOUGLAS-Mimi. Loving wife of Spencer; devoted mother of Terese and Robert Schwartzwald; beloved grandmother of Amy, Alan and Michael. Sister-in-law of Shirley Zussman and Vera Lefkowitz. Died on April 8 in Boca Raton, FL. A graduate of Skidmore College, she possessed remarkable courage, int
 ESTABROOK-Martha Rogerson. Widow of James M. Estabrook died Saturday, April 6, 2002 at eighty-six. She was a former Chairman of Volunteers of the Nassau County Chapter of the American Red Cross and is survived by three children, four grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. In lieu of flow
 FORINO-Sylvia (nee Malamed). Beloved wife of the late John Forino. Sister of Seymour Malamed and of the late Ann Waxman, and mother to Alan. Graveside services today, 11 AM, at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Queens, NY. The family will be sitting shiva at her home.       
 FRISCHER-Lili Ickovic, M.D. Of New York City, died in San Diego, California, on April 10, 2002. Born September 26, 1913, in Mikolovsce, Slovakia, she received her degree in medicine in 1938 from Bratislava Medical University. In fleeing from the Holocaust, she and her late husband Michael M
 HAYES-Gertrude (nee Ratner). 89, died April 9, 2002. Deeply loved, she will be missed by her daughter Josephine Hayes Dean, her grandchildren Noelle Dean and Judson Dean, and those who knew her. Gertrude will be remembered for her creative spirit, flirtatious charm, generosity, strength and
 HIRSH-Dorothy (nee Shulack). On April 11, 2002. A life long resident of Great Neck and Longboat Key, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Solomon Hirsh. Loving mother of Arthur and wife Eileen, Richard & wife Marcia and Edward. Devoted grandmother of Robert, Deborah & Jenna. She was an active 
 MATLICK-Laurel Barbara. April 12, 2002. Beloved wife of Laurence. Devoted mother of Erik and wife Ali, Jessica and husband Jason, Nicole, James and Andrew. Grandmother of Zachary. Loving daughter of Grace Duell. Sister of William Simon. A beautiful and strong person who devoted her life to 
 PAOLOZZI - Countess Alicia Spaulding, died after a long illness peacefully at home. She was 84. She is survived by her daughter Francesca; five grandsons: Alexander, Christopher, Anthony, Marco and Andy; and by her two great-grandsons Jack and Devin. She had a many splendored life and many 
 PENCER-Eileen. It is with deepest sorrow and regret that LESC staff announce the untimely death of our beloved President & CEO Eileen Pencer who passed away on March 21, 2002 after a valiant twoyear fight with cancer. Eileen was an extraordinary person in many ways and touched so many lives
 PRUZAN-Hermine. 96, wife of the late Martin Pruzan, died April 10, 2002 in Myrtle Beach, SC. She was born to Hermina and Leon Falk in New York City in 1905. She spent all but the last five years of her life in New York City and New Rochelle. She was predeceased by a daughter, Mary S. Gibson
 ROOS-Roberta, Bobbi, 74. On April 10th, 2002 in Sharon, CT. Formerly of London, England and Long Island, NY. Loving mother to Andrew, Peter and the late Julie Ann, mother-in-law to Susan and Elisabeth, sister to Professor Bill Friedheim. Adored grandmother of Alexander, McAlister, Kaile, Et
 ROSS-Ginny (nee Fisher). On April 11, 2002 in her 90th year, of complications after a fall. She was a founder of the Mt. Sinai Hospital of Miami Beach, FL, a founder of the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, a board member and honorary chair of the women's division of the ADL of New York. She 
 STEIN-Elizabeth Jane, PhD, AKA Elizabeth Jane Diggins, mournedby husband Bill, son Samuel, father Irving, sister Margaret and family. Despite her battle with cancer, she earned her PhD at Miami University, Ohio. Memorial Service Sunday, April 21, 1:30 PM, Society for Ethical Culture, 4450 F
 TUCKER-Helen, April 2001, rejoined her beloved Jack who passed February 1999. Geoffrey, Andrea and Raul wish them peace       
 BEISSEL-Amy. Born November 18, 1944, died suddenly on the morning of April 12, 2002, in New York City. She was a cherished wife, daughter, sister, mother, grandmother and friend who leaves behind so many who will miss her terribly. For many years, Amy worked with the League of Women Voters 
 CANTLAY-Patricia King. The Board of Trustees, the Purnell Advisory Council and the entire Purnell School community in Pottersville, NJ, express profound sorrow at the death of Patricia King Cantlay, Trustee, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband David, their children Eliza and Jack
 FRIELING-Rosa Louise, beloved daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jean Ignace Thollembeek, treasured wife of the late Walter Frieling, R.A., and the Inspiring-and-InvigoratingPresence-at-Large for her daughter, Margarete Florida Frieling, was born in Germany, February 3, 1903, and died in her home in 
 SLOANE-Arlene. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away April 13, 2002. She is survived by her devoted husband of 50 years, Walter; loving children Patti, Michele and Lisa; adoring grandchildren Jeffrey, Leslie, Amy, Michael and Zachary; cherished sister and brother-inlaw Rhoda and Arthur; Bonnie who
 STERN-Betty. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed member, Suzanne den Hollander Stern, and extends to her our heartfelt condolences.       
 BICK-Marie Jensen, on April 13th, 2002, of Garden City, NY. She died suddenly at home. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. President Emeritus of the Clark Botanic Garden Auxiliary. She leaves behind her husband Alan and her children John, Alan and Lucinda. She will be greatly missed by he
 COHEN-Lillian. Passed away on April 13, 2002. She is survived by many loving cousins. Services private.       
 FINKELSTEIN - Bernard. Died April 14, 2002 in Antwerp. Beloved brother of Karin Feldhamer. Devoted husband of Anika. Father of Chaim, Gideon, Dudi, Tamar and Tova. Shiva in Manhattan. FINKELSTEIN-Bernard. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the brother of o
 GILINSKY-Alberta Steinman on April 14, 2002. Beloved wife of Armand, devoted mother of Peter, Ann, Armand Jr., and Adam. Her beauty, intelligence, courage, integrity and good common sense inspired us all.       
 GREEN-Anna Feinzig. The Directors, campers and staff of Timber Lake Camp mourn the loss of our great friend and former director. Her strength, vitality, vision and adherence to the highest standards of quality were an inspiration to all of us. Literally thousands of children and staff have 
 HILL-Charlotte (Gigi). The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to our partner Israel Schechter and our colleague Milton Schechter on the loss of their beloved sister Gigi. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to Gigi's devoted sons Adam and B
 KAMINSKY-Beatrice (nee Bezehler). An enduring spirit whose happy marriage, love of family, determination and zest for life carried her through 94 active years-beloved and devoted wife of 68 years, companion, best friend and lover of Lynch (Leon); dear sister of Jean; loving mother of sons G
 KESTENBAUM-Yocheved, (Yetta), died April 15, in Jerusalem. Wife of the late Jacob. Survived by Shirley Schulder, Lionel, Sandy, Lil Levine and grandchildren, great grandchildren, great great grandchild. Her memory will be a lasting blessing to the family and all of Israel. Shiva at 3 Nahlat
 MELTER-Lisa. It is with great sadness and an overwhelming sense of loss that we mourn the untimely passing of our outstanding and much valued Assistant Head Counselor who passed away after a courageous and valiant battle with cancer. A member of the Timber Lake Staff for over six years, her
 MEYER-Sylvia Frances of Roslyn, NY, died at the age of eighty. Her family is mourning the loss of their matriarch. She used her home as a waypoint for all relatives entering America and she remains the unifier of a family that spans the globe. Sylvia had a unique quality that made each rela
 MOODIE-Betty Blue. Died in Bradenton, FL, April 12, 2002. Born in Topeka, KS, she spent most of her life in Bucks County, PA, New York City, where she was an editor of Glamour Magazine, and Bradenton, FL. She leaves three children, Kevin Moodie of Tuscon, AZ, John Moodie Jr. of NYC, and Kat
 OBERMAN-Esther K. On April 14, 2002, after a valiant struggle against cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Jacob Oberman. Loving mother of Elissa and Jonathan and mother-in-law of Monique Breindel and Mary Lou Keyes. Cherished and adoring grandmother to Hannah, Naomi and Sarah Rose. Devoted sister o
 PAOLOZZI-Countess Alicia. The National Council of Women of the United States and the eighty-one National Councils which make up the International Council of Women are deeply saddened by the death of an exceptional woman who worked long and devotedly to make the world a better place for wome
 SCHOENBERG - Elayne Claire (nee Marks) of Long Beach, NY and Boca Raton, FL. On April 15, 2002 in her seventy-fifth year. Adored daughter of the late Frances and Abby; beloved and devoted wife of George; loving mother of Kathy and Andrew; fond mother-in-law of James and Christina; thrilled 
 SHLAFMITZ-Annette Ruth. On April 15, 2002. Surviving are her husband Meyer of Forest Hills, her son Howard and daughter-in-law Deborah of Port Washington, daughter Laurie of New York City, three grandhchildren Sarah, Emily and Andrew, her brothers David and Suzanne Horowitz and Herbert and 
 STAHL-Pearl, of Passaic, NJ, died on Sunday, April 14, 2002. A woman of valor, whose remarkable life we celebrate for its warmth, generosity and graciousness. For fifty years, her indefatigable lifetime commitment inspired people to work for the betterment of the State of Israel and the Jew
 STRAUS-Helaine. Delaire Country Club announces with deep sorrow the passing of esteemed member Helaine Straus and and extends deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Howard, and her bereaved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 WASHINGTON-Jacquelin B. Born October 31, 1917, in Bridgeport, CT, died peacefully at home in Queens on Sunday, April 14, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Arthur J. Washington Jr., ''Chairman Mom'' of Arthur Washington III, loving motherin-law of Pamela Washington (nee Lockwood), fond grandmot
 ALTMAN-Lucille Westreich. Died peacefully in her sleep April 16 at 94 years of age. She was devoted to, and dearly loved by, her family and friends. She was especially proud of her children, Theodore and Alan, her daughters-in-law, Eleanor and Nancy, and her grandchildren, Alec, Gregory, Br
 ATTARDI-Genevieve. Known to her many friends and family as Gina or Jean, she died on Good Friday, March 29, 2002, after a brave, intense battle with pancreatic cancer. She was the loving mother and dearest friend to her son, Charles, and also leaves behind her brother, Albert, as well as tw
 BAMBERGER-Mickey (Roselle). In her 91st year after a long illness. Widow of the late L. Richard Bamberger. Served with distinction during WWII with the American Red Cross in China, Burma, India, New Foundland, Japan and Germany. She will always be remembered by loving nieces and nephews, Ro
 CASNER-Maureen (Fitzpatrick). April 12th, 2002, of Forest Hills, she taught elementary school in Pelham, originating ''Connecting Quilts to Mathematics''. Daughter of Joy Villamena Harburger of Naples, FL and the late Maurice J.M. Casner Jr., sister and sisterin-law of Enid and John Card, S
 FALBEL-Jane. The Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its longtime member Jane Falbel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children and the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Dale Polakoff Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard J. Wolf, President       
 FOWLER-Elaine (nee Darlington) Age 79, of Gladstone, NJ. on Sunday, February 24, 2002. Wife of the late Anderson Fowler. Mother of John Pitney of Gladwyne, PA, Christopher Pitney of Calabasas, CA, and the late Jennifer Lysle. She is also survived by four grandchildren. A memorial service wi
 FRIEDBERG-Basia Blaser. Died peacefully in her sleep on April 16, 2002. She leaves behind a close circle of family & friends, including her only daughter, Ruth, and sonin-law Hans Clapper, her only granddaughter, Sharon and her husband Bradley Connor, her most beloved great grandchildren, L
 GUT-Janine (Brandeis). Passed away on April 15, 2002 after her courageous battle against cancer. Janine was the devoted wife of James & loving mother of Chantal and Gerry. We will always remember and miss her. Services Riverside Nassau Chapels, Great Neck, New York 10 A.M. Wednesday. The Gu
 KESTENBAUM-Yocheved (Yetta). Beloved wife of the late Jacob Z''L, adored mother of Shirley and Paul Schulder, Lionel and Margot, Sandy and Gloria, and Lillian and Philip Levine. Cherished by her 14 grandchildren, 51 great grandchildren and one great, great granddaughter. She lived a blessed
 LEVINSON-Mollie. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President LEVINSON-Mollie. Shalom/Fannie Zornber
 NOVAK-Joan Tross. Passed away on April 15, 2002 in her 75th year at her home in New York City. Devoted mother of Gregory and Mark Novak. Loving grandmother of Rebecca, Jeffrey, Jason, Jennifer & Jacqueline. Her remarkable intellect and creativity as an artist, writer and decorator will cont
 DeANGELIS-Kay on April 16, 2002. Senior managing director of Georgeson Shareholders Co. Loving wife of the late Philip. Beloved mother of Daniel and Philip. Devoted sister of Stella Vavas, Olga Kitsakos and Agnes Varis. Funeral services at Evangelismos G.O. Church, 302 W. 91 St, NYC Friday 
 DOUGLASS - TORRENCE - Judith Kay. On March 25, 2002. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of Judy, beloved wife of Jerry Torrence, at the age of 60. Her immediate cremation followed. Judy is survived by her father, Grover Giesy, and brother, Greg Giesy, both of Eugene, OR. Born a
 HITZIG-Isabelle Koehler of Bright Waters, NY, on April 16, 2002. She was 76 years old and died of lung cancer. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William Hitzig and mother of Carolyn Dahab and the late Douglas Hitzig. Grandmother of Evelyn and William Dahab. Contributions in her memory may be mad
 JOLSON-Anya. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are deeply saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, the beloved wife of Leon Jolson, cherished mother of Barbara (and David) Blumenthal, grandmother of Adam, Gid
 KEMPF-Janice Lee. Of Brooklyn, NY passed away on April 16, 2002 at New York University Hospital. She was 61. Janice was born in Portsmouth, NH on July 20, 1940 to Bruce and Mary Williamson. Janice will be remembered by us all as a kind, generous, intelligent and loving woman with a gentlene
 KESTENBAUM-Yocheved (Yetta). AMIT mourns the passing of our devoted supporter and beloved mother of our dedicated honorary National Vice-President, Shirley K. Schulder. A true Woman of Valor, Yetta Kestenbaum was the matriarch of her esteemed family and lived a life devoted to Torah values,
 LOTZOF-Sadie. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Sadie Lotzof. Sadie was the beloved mother of Lorraine Abramson and motherin-law of Richard Abramson, cherished friends, supporters, and leaders of our mission, who are devoted to m
 NEUBURGER-Dovette D. The managing directors and staff mourn the untimely passing of our colleague and friend, Debbie. She was a longtime valued tax professional, dedicated to her work, her clients and fellow professionals. She will be missed by all of us for her knowledge, experience and ki
 SIMON-Esther. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its devoted member Hedy Shulman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 STAHL-Pearl. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Foundation for the Righteous mourn the passing of Pearl Stahl, one of our great stalwart volunteers and the mother of our Executive Director Stanlee Stahl. Pearl worked tirelesly to improve the world in which we live, and we will m
 Ruth Fertel, who found a New Orleans restaurant called Chris Steak House in the classified ads and from it built one of the largest steakhouse chains in the world, died Tuesday in New Orleans. She was 75. The cause was lung cancer, her company said. Ms. Fertel came to the fo
 ALTSHULER-Lillian. On April 17, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Jean Altshuler Fasciano and Miriam Altshuler. Dear mother-inlaw of Corrado Fasciano and Tom Mansfield. Devoted grandmother of Caleb, Erica, Rebecca and Benjamin, and friend to many. She will be profound
 BERGER-Benjamin. On April 18, 2002 at age 75, of Manhattan. Beloved father of Orly Wiseman and her husband Ed, & Shelly BergerMitnick and her husband David. Adored grandfather of 4. Services today, 12:30 PM, Gutterman-Musicant, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, New Jersey. Shiva to follow at the
 GREENSPAN-Sadie. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of our esteemed colleague Sadie Greenspan. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton National President       
 JOLSON-Anya. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth mourn the loss of Anya Jolson, benefactor and champion of Holocaust Remembrance and Jewish education. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Leon, and the entire family. Sam E. Bloch, Chairman Stephen M. Greenberg, President G
 LITNER-Sally. Passed away on April 17, 2002, in her 98th year. Beloved mother of Paul and Judy. Cherished grandmother of Alan and Lorin, Jamie & Arthur, Steven and Rachel, Barry and Rori, and Jeffrey and Amy. Revered great-grandmother of Harris, Jordan, William, Rebecca, Joshua, Zachary and
 ASKIN-Alma Durst. Beloved grandmother, mother, wife, sister, aunt & friend. She died peacefully at home on Thursday, April 18th. Her indomitable spirit remains with us. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Hebrew Free Loan Society, 205 East 42nd Street, New York, New York 100
 FORT-Doris A. Of New York City & Manchester, VT died on April 16 after a long illness. Mrs Fort was Past President of the Women's Auxiliary of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital and a member of the Board of the Salvation Army of N.Y. in the early 60's. Doris Alford was born on October 18, 19
 RIFKIN-Ruth R. Levine, April 19. Adored wife of the late Boris Rifkin and the late William Levine. Cherished mother of June Wolfe and her husband Bill and Marge Tashman. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Jamie and Joshua. Devoted sister of Gilda Jacobson. Graveside service Sunday, April 21, 1
 ROBINSON-Katherine W. Retired editor at Scholastic Magazine. She is survived by her father Robert W. Woodroofe Jr; her brother Robert W. Woodroofe III; her sister Robin Ackroyd; and her sister Benson Tulloch. A family memorial service is planned. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be mad
 ASKIN-Alma Durst. Beloved grandmother, mother, wife, sister, aunt & friend. She died peacefully at home on Thursday, April 18th. Her indomitable spirit remains with us. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Hebrew Free Loan Society, 205 East 42nd Street, New York, New York 100
 DENLEA-Nancy Burkley. Beloved wife and mother, passed away April 17, 2002 at her home in Los Angeles due to complications of cancer. Born April 8, 1936 in Erie, PA, she was a graduate of Vassar College. Actively involved in church and school activities, she devoted her life to her family an
 DORF-Ethel. On April 18, 2002. Beloved wife of Sanford Dorf. Loving mother of Ellen Tamaroff, Jeffrey Dorf, Lisa Abad and Norman Dorf, mother-in-law of Peter Leepson, Jami Dorf, Jon Abad and Barbara Dorf. Devoted Grandma of Rachel and Jaclyn Tamaroff, Alexander, Griffin and Oliver Dorf, Ale
 GOLDMAN-Paula. On April 19, 2002. Loving mother of Judy Tomiyasu and her husband Wally and Irene Gilman and her husband Kevin. Dear sister of Martin Roemer. Devoted aunt of Michael Roemer, Mafalda Presnal, Frank Roemer, Frances McNierney and Howard Roemer. Great-aunt of Andrew and Aidan. Vi
 GREEN-Anna Feinzig. The Directors, campers and staff of Timber Lake Camp mourn the loss of our great friend and former director. Her strength, vitality, vision and adherence to the highest standards of quality were an inspiration to all of us. Literally thousands of children and staff have 
 JOLSON-Anya. The Town Club Foundation mourns the passing of our longtime friend and generous supporter, Anya Jolson. Our condolences to her husband Leon and the entire family. Harry Morgenstern, President Michael Frank, Vice President       
 LEVINSON-Mollie. NY Chapter of Hadassah notes with deep regret the death of Mollie Levinson, former President 1977-1980. May her memory be for a blessing. Arline Kempner, President Lois Shallit, Executive Director       
 MacKAY-Ellen (Taks). On April 17th, 2002. Cherished and beautiful mother of Scott and Courtney. Loving daughter of Joyce Taks. Beloved wife of the late Hugh MacKay. Dearest sister of Cindy and Stephen Taks. Adored mother-in-law of Jennifer MacKay. Ellen had a smile for everyone. She will be
 RIFKIN-Ruth R. Levine, April 19. Adored wife of the late Boris Rifkin and the late William Levine. Cherished mother of June Wolfe and her husband Bill and Marge Tashman. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Jamie and Joshua. Devoted sister of Gilda Jacobson. Graveside service Sunday, April 21, 1
 SCHWARTZ-Bess. Of New York City on April 19, 2002, at 92 after a long illness. Survived by daughter Diane and son-in-law James Parver. Interment will be private. Donations in her memory to the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, 650 West 168th St, NY, NY 10032.       
 SHAPIAN-Betty. A public relations professional for best selling authors, Betty Shapian died of cancer on April 15, 2002, at the age of 73, at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Raised in Ridgefield, NJ, Shapian's career began in New York with Doubleday Books. In the 1960's she 
 WEINTRAUB-Helene B. In loving memory of Helene B. Weintraub, a true pioneer of the 20th Century and champion of humanitarian causes, who lived her 91 years to the fullest extent of her intelligence and talents. Beloved mother of Bill & the late Michael, beloved sister of Shirley Barnett, lo
 Betty Shapian, a veteran book publicist on the West Coast, died last Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 73. The cause was cancer, said her friend and colleague, Tom Brocato. In an industry that is based almost entirely in New York City, Ms. Shapian
 ADLER-Henrietta K. We mourn the loss of our beloved past president. Condolences to her family. Sisterhood of Forest Hills J.C.       
 ASKIN-Alma, born New Year's Day 1911, died April 18, 2002; beloved daughter of the late Joseph and Rose Durst, who founded The Durst Organization in 1915; dear mother of Peter and Nan; adored grandmother of Emily, Oliver, Sarah, Lida, James, Sam and J.D.; cherished sister of David Durst and
 FRIEDMAN-Rivka. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime member, beloved wife of its distinguished member Israel Friedman and mother of its member Tova Friedman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, Presi
 GREISMAN-Bess. On April 20. Adored wife of the late Jack I. Greisman. Deeply loved mother of Alfred and Linda, Jo Ann and Paul Alter, Libby and the late George. Loving sister of Dr. Herbert G. and Rhoda Cohen. Beloved sister-in-law of Edith Cohen, Bea Cohen and Yvette Greisman. Grandmother 
 RHODES-Helen L. On April 21, 2002, almost 90. A wonderful spirit, dear and deeply loved mother to Bob and Anita. Mother-in-law to Bob and Sunny. Treasured grandmother to Justin, Jennifer, Lyn and Tammy and proud greatgrandmother to Nicholas and William Thomas. Beloved wife of the late Sydne
 WEISSMAN - Sarah Schreiber. With great sadness we mourn the death of Sarah Schreiber Weissman, born November 4, 1903, London, to Rebecca Greenberg Schreiber, an early suffragist, and William Schreiber, renowned European wood carver/cabinetmaker, and died 98 years old April 21, 2002, Fort My
 BAJOR-Margaret, 87. Of Southbury, CT, died April 21, at her home. She was the devoted wife of Laszlo Bajor. A memorial service will be held Friday, April 26 at 4:00PM at Carpino Funeral home, 750 Main St South, Southbury, CT.       
 BAUM-Rosalyn, 59. Of Mt. Vernon, NY on April 21, 2002. Devoted wife of Charles. Adored mother of Rachel and Vanessa. Beloved sister to Paul Kobrin of Toronto, Canada. Rosalyn was a dedicated community servant. She worked throughout her life to promote the rights of oppressed people and as a
 BOTTS-Priscilla F. Of Bourne, MA, on April 21, 2002, aged 86. Married to the late John C. Botts for 60 years, and mother of John and Ted Botts, and Priscilla Ditchfield. Grandmother of six and great-grandmother of two. Peggy was a real estate broker for many years, and an active volunteer, 
 BRAVERMAN-Carol. Wife of the late Michael Braverman. Mother of Lynne Malina and June Greenspan. Mother-in-law of Dr. Joel Greenspan. Sister of Elizabeth Mersey. Grandmother of Margaret Malina, Sasha and Jacob Greenspan. Beloved by all her family. Funeral services private.       
 CAUST-Jeanette. On April 19, 2002 in Houston, Texas, 84 years old. A beautiful spirit, and dearly beloved mother to Sonya and Helene and stepmother to Harvey. Treasured grandmother to Michael, Jennifer, Noah, and Sammy and proud great-grandmother to Rayven. Loving wife of the late Leon Caus
 COHEN-Edith. The Congregation of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, records with sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We express our sympathy to her family. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President       
 FEINGOLD-Regina, 85, of Rancho Bernardo, CA. Longtime NY resident, retired to San Diego. Dearly loved wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She is survived by her husband William, daughter Shirley Howe, 3 grandchildren & 4 great-grandchildren. She was predeceased by her daughter 
 FELDMAN-George, Dr. The National Board and Staff of the National Council of Jewish Women, Inc. (NCJW) express our deepest sympathy to our esteemed Past National President, Lenore Feldman and her family on the passing of her life partner, Dr. George Feldman. Lenore's leadership as NCJW Natio
 FONER-Lorraine, 79. Died on April 22nd, 2002. Beloved wife for 54 years of Henry; caring mother of Rachel and of the late Diane; loving grandmother of Michael and Justin; devoted sister of Elaine Seiff, Barry Lieberman and Leon Lieberman. She fashioned a life of concern for her fellow human
 FRIEDMAN-Rivka. The National Officers of EMUNAH are deeply saddened by the passing of Rivka Friedman, beloved wife of our colleague Israel Friedman, Executive Vice President of the R.Z.A. Rivka was a Life Member and together with her esteemed husband, devoted her life to EMUNAH and Klal Yis
 GOLDSMITH-Janet Fox. On April 22, 2002, in Palm Beach, Florida. Formely of New York City and Shelter Island. She brought a lifetime of love and laughter to Henry, her husband of 58 years and to her daughter/son-in-law, Julie and Francis Daniel. She was an accomplished member of Broadways ''
 HOROWITZ-Rebecca. For 22 years Becky and Ike have been devoted members of The Shelter Rock Jewish Center in times of health and in her last illness. Now she is at peace. May her memory be a blessing. May God comfort all who mourn. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Laurence A. Feldman, President       
 LYNCH-Sister Patricia. Of Englewood, NJ on April 19, 2002. Former president and CEO of Holy Name Hospital, Teaneck, NJ and founding Board member of Gilda's Club Northern New Jersey. The Board and staff of Gilda's Club Northern New Jersey mourn the loss of Sister Patricia Lynch, CSJP. She no
 McKENNA-Mary N., 79. A longtime resident of Beverly Hills died April 19. Born Mary N. Smith in Orange, NJ, she graduated from Orange High School in 1939. She was employed by Monroe Calculating Machine Co., where she was an executive secretary for over 20 years. Later she worked as an admini
 RHODES-Helen L. On April 21, 2002, almost 90. A wonderful spirit, dear and deeply loved mother to Bob and Anita. Mother-in-law to Bob and Sunny. Treasured grandmother to Justin, Jennifer, Lyn and Tammy and proud greatgrandmother to Nicholas and William Thomas. Beloved wife of the late Sydne
 RICHARDSON - Dolores Hoyle, formerly of New York City, died on April 20 after a brief illness. Born in 1914, Mrs. Richardson was formerly a landscape architect with the NYC Department of Parks, a member of the ASLA and a parishioner of St. James Church. She is survived by a daughter, Pilar 
 ROSENBUSCH-Frances. On April 21, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Justin. Frances was devoted to her many friends. She will be dearly missed. Graveside service at 11AM at Cedar Park Cemetery.       
 STOUT-Carolyn Goodwin. Of Cliffside Park, NJ, passed away suddenly on Sunday, April 14, 2002. Carolyn was born in Augusta, GA, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Stratacos. She is survived by her husband, Robert Stout; sister, Mary Edwards of Issaquah, Washington; a niece, Carolyn DeFur, 
 TRISCIUZZI-Patricia M. Born May 4, 1955, died on April 21, 2002 in Brooklyn. Beloved wife of Robert and devoted mother of Liana and Edmund. Loving sister of Michael, Timothy & Raymond Christoper. Cherished daughter of Rose and stepdaughter of John. Graduate of Wesleyan (Bachelors) & Columbi
 WEISS-Margaret, age 91 years, on April 22, 2002, after a brief illness. Mrs. Weiss was a longtime resident of New York, having immigrated to the Bronx after the Second World War. She was the only member of her immediate family who survived the Holocaust during which she lost over 100 relati
 JOYCE HORMAN is talking about her search for the truth. Her cornflower blue eyes gaze into the distance, like she's staring into a camera lens. She's used to questions about her husband, Charles, a filmmaker and journalist whose execution in Chile during a 1973 military coup was dramatized 
 Linda Boreman, the woman once known as Linda Lovelace, who starred in one of the first feature-length pornography movies, ''Deep Throat,'' and who later denounced it as depicting her ''rape,'' died on Monday in Denver. She was 53. The cause was injuries from a car accident on April 
 ALBURY-Joan E. Suddenly. Loving sister of Mary Noyes, Ann Horowitz and Michael Albury. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, Wednesday, 4-5:50 P.M. with services at 5:30. Interment is private. Contributions in her memory may be made to an animal-related ch
 BERNHARD - Lillian. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Died on April 22, 2002 at the age of 94. She will be forever loved and remembered.       
 GASTON-SHAPIRO-Gloria L. Retired foreign service officer, on Sunday March 24, 2002 at her home in Washington D.C. She had a distinguished career as a diplomat in the U.S. Department of State and other government agencies. Wife of the late Manheim S. Shapiro, stepmother of Ezra Shapiro, gran
 GOLDSMITH-Janet Fox. On April 22, 2002, in Palm Beach, Florida. Formely of New York City and Shelter Island. She brought a lifetime of love and laughter to Henry, her husband of 58 years and to her daughter/son-in-law, Julie and Francis Daniel. She was an accomplished member of Broadways ''
 LAMPUTT-Moya. On April 20th, 2002. Actress, dancer and model. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday, May 7th, 12 noon. Interment to follow at Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 LeAVE-Diane. On Mar. 13, 2002, at age 73. Daughter of Charles J. and Judith LeAve, sister of Marie LeAve Cohen. Retired insurance broker & recently active member of NY Audubon Society and Sierra Club Photography Committees. Memorial gathering April 27, 2002 at the Stanhope Hotel, 5th Ave at
 STEG-Dr. Doreen. Of Villanova, PA., loving wife, mother and grandmother died in her sleep on April 21, 2002. She was 74 years old and had been married for over 54 years to Dr. Leo Steg. After escaping from the German occupation of her birthplace in Belgium, she came to the U.S. and earned a
 de CLAIRVILLE - Gwendolyn Gwynne. Age 87, of Manasota Key, Florida, Westwood, MA., and formerly of LLoyd Harbor, NY, died peacefully on April 23, 2002 in Sarasota, FL. Beloved wife of the late Raymond de Clairville, mother of Wendy Kemper of NY and Clauie Lauren and Sandy Rath of Sarasota. 
 FONER-Lorraine, 79. Died on April 22nd, 2002. Beloved wife for 54 years of Henry; caring mother of Rachel and of the late Diane; loving grandmother of Michael and Justin; devoted sister of Elaine Seiff, Barry Lieberman and Leon Lieberman. She fashioned a life of concern for her fellow human
 HOFFMANN-Doris Goodday, 94. Died April 23, 2002 with the same profound dignity and grace with which she lived. As one who lived for over twenty years with Alzheimer's Disease she redefined intelligence and love, showing all who knew her that one's true humanity is not at all diminished by t
 MUNROE-Ofelia, on April 23, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberto G. Mendoza and Marianne Munier. Cherished grandmother of Tana and Jorge Suarez Rivas and Noel and Elaine Munier. Devoted sister of Ricardo Lopez Bosque. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Mass of Christian bur
 Barbara Grizzuti Harrison, who emerged as a popular, prolific writer of keenly observed nonfiction with a 1978 book about the dozen years she spent as a Jehovah's Witness, died on Wednesday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 67 and lived in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn. T
 ANTELL-Helene. Died on April 25 of complications from Alzheimer's Disease. Survived by her children Elinore and Ken, sisters Dorothy and Lillian, grandson Lee, stepgrandchildren Shawn and Brittany, nieces and nephews. A devoted wife to the late Louis and loving mother to the late Philip. Ta
 de GOT-Christine. Passed away on April 24, 2002 at her home in Old Greenwich, CT at the age of 71. The cause of death was complications from Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. She was born November 7, 1930 in Evanston, IL to the late Kenneth and Vivian Schmidt. She has been married for 40 year
 FRIEDMAN-Rivka. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of a most active and dedicated volunteer, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague Israel Friedman, Executive Vice President Emeritus of the Religious Zionists of America. Rivka Friedman's love of Torah values, Zionism, and AMIT's n
 RANDALL - Sherrie (DuMond). April 25, 2002. She is survived by her mother, Bonnie Jean DuMond of Unadilla, NY; daughter, Elizabeth W. Randall of Manhattan; son John H. Randall of Rochester, NY; brother, Brian V. (Janet) DuMond Jr.; sister, Mary Lou Grant; several nieces and nephews and spec
 RAUTH-Jane Theresa (Callahan), on April 24, of Belleville, NJ. Beloved wife of 52 years of George J. Rauth. Devoted mother of Maryjane Rule, Thomas, Barbara Golden, Suzanne, Patricia Giardina and Michael. Survived by 15 loving grandchildren, one great-grandchild and her faithful golden retr
 STERN-Ruby. Passed on peacefully on April 25th, 2002. Devoted mother of Rick & Doug, loving grandmother of Lindsay and Hana. Her love of books and art, her thirst for knowledge, and strong drive for self growth have influenced many of the lives with whom she shared herself. Memorial service
 STRASSER-Clarice, 91. Of Stamford, wife of the late Roger Strasser. Survived by her children, Joan Strasser of Albany, CA., Karen Holzman of Stamford, CT, Fred Strasser of Montclair, NJ and four grandchildren.       
 WEMPLE-Virginia Waller. Age 88, of Plandome, NY, on April 23, 2002. Daughter of the late Reverend and Mrs. Henry Davey Waller of Flushing, NY. Survived by her husband, Francis Holland Wemple; a son, Francis Holland Wemple Jr.; and three daughters, Virginia Wemple, Martha Wemple, & Anne Wemp
 Helen Levitov Sobell, a voice in the struggle to spare Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and free their co-defendant, Morton Sobell, her husband, died on April 15 in Redwood City, Calif. She was 84. She had long been in declining health, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said her daughte
 HARRISON-Barbara Grizzuti. On April 24th, 2002. Noted essayist, novelist, journalist. Beloved mother of Joshua and Anna and dear mother-in-law of Hilary Cousins. Devoted sister of Richard Grizzuti. Reposing at Krtil Funeral HomeYorkville Funeral Service, Inc., 1297 1st Ave., NYC, on Saturda
 KLEIN-Lenore. On April 24, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Howard. Beloved sister of the late Judith Riggs and the late Mortimer Metzger. Loving aunt, grand aunt and great grand aunt. She graduated Woodmere Academy 1932 and Barnard College 1936. She was devoted to ballet and the arts and vol
 LEHMAN-Mary. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Mary Lehman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her children, Michael and Katherine, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, 
 MacLACHLAN-Mary Lehman. On April 26. Her children Michael and Katherine Lehman, her husband Colin MacLachlan, her mother Geraldine Blumberg of Dothan, AL, Jack H. Lehman, III, her relatives and her friends are proud and honored to have been a part of her life. The funeral is strictly privat
 PULLANO-Joyce, M.D. New York Community Hospital mourns the sudden and unexpected loss of our dear friend and colleague Dr. Joyce Pullano who served as our President of the Medical Board. The entire hospital family will always remember Dr. Pullano for her eighteen years of devotion to our pa
 STRASSER-Clarice, 91. Of Stamford, wife of the late Roger Strasser. Survived by her children, Joan Strasser of Albany, CA., Karen Holzman of Stamford, CT, Fred Strasser of Montclair, NJ and four grandchildren.       
 WEMPLE-Virginia Waller. Age 88, of Plandome, NY, on April 23, 2002. Daughter of the late Reverend and Mrs. Henry Davey Waller of Flushing, NY. Survived by her husband, Francis Holland Wemple; a son, Francis Holland Wemple Jr.; and three daughters, Virginia Wemple, Martha Wemple, & Anne Wemp
 WOLFSON-Violet N. Deceased April 25, 2002. Beloved daughter, sister, wife and friend. Loved by everyone she touched. Always beautiful. She lived a life of grace, dignity and community service. She will always be in our hearts. Visiting Sunday, April 28, 11 AM at Riverside Chapel, 76th St. a
 HENDERSON-Sally Lou. Beloved wife of Thomas Bradford. Her gregarious warmth and diverse interests enriched us all. Through her design firm, Henderson & Assoc., Sally created wonderful living environments, making friends with a diverse cross-section of New Yorkers as she worked. She also tau
 KLEIN-Lenore. On April 24, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Howard. Beloved sister of the late Judith Riggs and the late Mortimer Metzger. Loving aunt, grand aunt and great grand aunt. She graduated Woodmere Academy 1932 and Barnard College 1936. She was devoted to ballet and the arts and vol
 LEHMAN-Mary. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Mary Lehman, one of AJC's most active and dedicated leaders. Mary sat on our Board of Govenors, Board of Trustees, Womens Campaign Board and National Leadership Council and was the immediate past Chair of AJC Audi
 LUBIN-Florence (nee Paley). Passed away at the age of 89 in Miami, Fl. following a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Hyman, she is survived by her children Laura & Mark (Ellen) and adored grandchildren Samuel Ari and Rebecca Joy. A lover of art and music, travel and family, she will b
 MacLACHLAN-Mary Lehman. On April 26. Her children Michael and Katherine Lehman, her husband Colin MacLachlan, her mother Geraldine Blumberg of Dothan, AL, Jack H. Lehman, III, her relatives and her friends are proud and honored to have been a part of her life. The funeral is strictly privat
 MUNROE-Ofelia, on April 23, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberto G. Mendoza and Marianne Munier. Cherished grandmother of Tana and Jorge Suarez Rivas and Noel and Elaine Munier. Devoted sister of Ricardo Lopez Bosque. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Interment took place 
 SALZBERG - Harriet. Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Max and Regina Salzberg. Loving sister of Marlene Feldman; sister-in-law of Milton Feldman, and cherished aunt of Mark and Amy, Michael and A.J., and Matthew and Mara. Passed away in her 57th year on April 25, 2002. She will be missed by 
 SJOO-Ulla. Will be remembered by family and friends in Sweden and the U.S. She was a Vice President at Stella Re Management Corporation. She loved New York. Service at the Church Of Sweden on May 9 at 7:00pm.       
 WEINTRAUB-Rose. April 30, 2000. Lovingly remembered by her family. Jerry, Jane, Doug and Linda       
 BERNSTEIN-Linda. On April 28, 2002. Beloved wife of Marshall. Devoted mother of Jordan, Jonathan and Jessica and stepmother of Kimberly. Loving daughter of Pearl Bier. Dear sister of Sherry Parker and Randi Blondman, and sister-in-law of Allan Parker and Alan Blondman. Also survived by her 
 ISDANER-Roslyn. A resident of New Rochelle, NY, passed away on April 27, 2002, at home. Born November 21, 1928, to Myra and Jack Haberkorn in New York City. She is survived by her husband Burton, her two daughters Judith and Janet, her two grandchildren Jacob and Jessica, her son-in-law Dav
 MacLACHLAN-Mary Lehman. On April 26. Her children Michael and Katherine Lehman, her husband Colin MacLachlan, her mother Geraldine Blumberg of Dothan, AL, Jack H. Lehman, III, her relatives and her friends are proud and honored to have been a part of her life. The funeral is strictly privat
 Ruth Handler, creator of the Barbie doll, one of the world's best-selling toys and one that became an icon of American popular culture, an artistic muse and a lightning rod of feminist politics, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 85. Mrs. Handler
 Indra Devi, the daughter of European nobility who introduced the ancient discipline of yoga to the Kremlin leadership, Hollywood stars like Gloria Swanson and even students in India, died on Thursday in Buenos Aires. She was 102. In Buenos Aires, where she had lived for several year
 COHEN-Pearl. Age 90. On Friday April 26, in Brooklyn. The loving and much beloved wife of the late Jack Cohen, cherished mother to Herbert Cohen, revered motherin-law to Joan Warner and adored by her grandchildren, Kimberly and Jessy Warner-Cohen. She will be remembered for her dignity, res
 GREENBERG-Anna G. Beloved wife of the late Moe Greenberg, passed away peacefully after a brief illness, on April 28, 2002. She will be lovingly missed by her sons, Allan and Jerry, her daughter-in-law Vivian and her grandchildren, Madeline and Vanessa.       
 GROSS-Helene Vera. Died April 25, 2002, in Santa Monica, CA. Strong, stoic, silently brave and concern for the well being of others, she died as she lived. Her California grandchildren Lilie & Elliot, her New York grandchildren, Amy, Sara, Adam, her children Daniel, Laurie, Martin, her brot
 ISDANER-Roslyn. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Roslyn Isdaner. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband, Burton, and to all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Paul Seide
 JOHNSON-Patricia. Bovis Lend Lease is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Pat. Our sympathies are extended to her special friend, Dr. Eugene Schwalben, her mother, her two sisters, her brother and her niece and nephew. Luther P. Cochrane, CEO Bovis Lend Leas
 LEVIT-Sherry A. Strumph, 53. Of Shokan, NY, died April 29, 2002, after a courageous battle with mesothelioma. She was the founder of Transcript Associates, Inc. Surviving are her husband Hiram, her daughter Kristin Hooten, her sister Eileen Forte, and brother Joseph Strumph. A celebration o
 MACLACHLAN-Mary Lehman. The Board of Directors of the Irvington Institute for Immunological Research is deeply saddened by the loss of our former Board President, Mary Lehman MacLachlan. Mary, through her conscientious, dedicated and strong leadership grew the Fellowship Program and added m
