 BERNSTEIN - Diane June. (nee Meyer), 71. Died on October 31, 2002 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a valiant struggle to recover from surgery for an aortic aneurism. Devoted wife of George Alexander Bernstein, daughter of the late Sylvester and Mary Higgins Meyer, Piscataway, N.J. Be
 CAPASSO-Nancy. On October 30, 2002 after a brief battle with cancer at age 62. Beloved daughter of Ruth Roth and Harold Reiss. Devoted mother of Helene Popowski, Steven, Deborah Herbert Lewis, Michael and Andrea. Cherished grandmother of Gabriel and Emma, Tassia and Kayla and Max. Her love 
 KAPNICK-Mary. Mary Tuttle Redus Johnson Kapnick of Naples, Florida, and Wilmette, Illinois, passed away on Sunday, October 20, 2002, at Naples Community Hospital. She was 76 years old. Mrs. Kapnick was born March 29, 1926, in St. Louis, Missouri, daughter of Hal Edward Redus and Margaret Bu
 ROSENBERG-Helen N. October 25, 2002. Helen Rosenberg knew how to live. For 86 years, friends marveled at her energy, intelligence and fiery spirit...and of course, her style. Born Helen Natalie Goldstein, she graduated from Brooklyn College in 1936 and worked as a legal secretary with Rubin
 WHITE-Margaret R. Taylor of Wellesley, Massachusetts, passed away in the peaceful surroundings of her home on Saturday, October 26, 2002. Wife of the late Russell S. Taylor and the late Bickford G. White. Her only son, Jeffrey M. Taylor of Pasadena, California, survives Mrs. Taylor White. I
 WILLIAMS-Ilza Louise Berry, 87. Of Oakland, CA, died October 18. A Hunter College alumna, educator and mother of three, she began her career with the NYC school system in 1945 as a teacher at P.S. 68 in the Bronx. She became a remedial reading specialist, taught English As A Second Language
 Dr. Jeanne L. Noble, a professor of education who in 1962 became one of the first African-American women to receive tenure at New York University, died on Oct. 17 at New York University Medical Center. She was 76. She had congestive heart failure, a friend, Paula Giddings, said.    
 AUSTIN-Esther K. On October 30, 2002 in her 97th year in Colorado Springs, CO. Devoted mother of Naomi Ruth Grainger and Samuel Grady. Loving grandmother of Matthew, and John Scott Grainger. Adored great-grandmother of Evan, Clara, Laura and Michele. Services private       
 BROEDY - Esther (nee Radevsky). On October 31, in her 87th year. Beloved mother of Sheila Paula Brandt and Alan Edward Broedy. Dearest grandmother of Scott Howard Brandt. Aunt and great aunt. Service Parkside Chapel, Queens, NY, Sunday 11:30 AM. No flowers, please.       
 GEIGER-Mildred Kaufman, on October 31, 2002. Adored and adoring wife of the late Howard, mother of Stephen, Julian and Jeanne, grandmother of Teya, David, Rachel and Michael, sister of Stanley Kaufman, Sheldon Kaufman and the late Bernard, Maurice and Julian Kaufman. Cherished friend and me
 KAPNICK-Mary. Mary Tuttle Redus Johnson Kapnick of Naples, Florida, and Wilmette, Illinois, passed away on Sunday, October 20, 2002, at Naples Community Hospital. She was 76 years old. Mrs. Kapnick was born March 29, 1926, in St. Louis, Missouri, daughter of Hal Edward Redus and Margaret Bu
 MUTZMAN-Sharyn. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband Fred, their sons Keith and Craig and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President       
 NIEPORENT - Lucille Iris (nee Pollack), died October 30th, 2002, at the Beth Israel Medical Center in New York, after a valiant struggle with lymphoma. Beloved wife of Dr. Hans. Loving mother of James, Darren and Amy. Devoted sister to Herbert. Devoted sister-in-law to Maja Niles. Graduate 
 PAGANELLI-Dolores, MD, 74. Of White Plains, New York, died October 31, 2002. She was born April 6, 1928 to Armand and Elizabeth Paganelli. Her father, an Italian immigrant who came to this country in the early 1900's, was a pharmacist. She grew up in the Bronx, NY, and had one brother, Roge
 BASS - Catherine Hawley. Died in Cambridge, MA, October 25th, aged 27, of manicdepressive illness. Katie graduated summa cum laude from St. Paul's School in 1993 and was a member of the Princeton Class of 1999. She is survived by her parents, George S. Bass and Jane L. Bass, her siblings Ma
 BERJER-Barbara, 82. Died of pneumonia complications, October 20, 2002. Born Barbara Berger in Seattle, June 12, 1920. Attended University of Washington and Goodman Theatre, Chicago. Moved to New York in 1956. Appeared in three Broadway shows including ''Dylan'' and ''Best Man''. Starred in 
 BERMAN - Virginia Anne. Passed away peacefully on October 26 in her 78th year. She was a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College. Beloved wife of the late Emile Zola Berman, defense attorney in the Sirhan Sirhan trial. She is survived by her daughter, Ellen Tackling, of New Canaan, CT, grandchil
 BLOCH-Rose. Died November 1, 2002 in Sunrise, FL. Devoted mother to Barbara Shapiro Fink & Merlin Alper. Loving grandmother of Jerome Alper, Alyssa Wallen & Jan Shapiro-Popkin. Very proud great-grandmother to Benjamin, Zachary & Rebecca Alper, Andrew & Jessica Wallen, & Louis Popkin. Belove
 BROEDY - Esther (nee Radevsky). On October 31, in her 87th year. Beloved mother of Sheila Paula Brandt and Alan Edward Broedy. Dearest grandmother of Scott Howard Brandt. Aunt and great aunt. Service Parkside Chapel, Queens, NY, Sunday 11:30 AM. No flowers, please.       
 CAVE-Natalie Helene Jacobs. The famiily sorrowfully announces her passing on October 29, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Vernal G. Cave, M.D., she was a long term resident and community activist in Brooklyn. A 50year employee of the Veterans' Administration, she retired as Chief of Social Wo
 GEIGER-Mildred Kaufman, on October 31, 2002. Adored and adoring wife of the late Howard, mother of Stephen, Julian and Jeanne, grandmother of Teya, David, Rachel and Michael, sister of Stanley Kaufman, Sheldon Kaufman and the late Bernard, Maurice and Julian Kaufman. Cherished friend and me
 GOULD-Paula H. An indomitable presence with spirited intellect and nimble witted humor. Improvisational pianist, teacher and accompanist for the New Dance Group, New Duncan Dancers and Hunter College. Champion of progressive politics & education and reproductive rights. Remembered lovingly 
 GUTTMANN-Irma. 94, Hungarian Holocaust Survivor. Wife of Rabbi Henry Guttmann. Survived by her sister Miriam Halasz, daughter Agnes & Dr. Leonard Dauerman, grandchildren Claudi, Sherry, Harry & Elysa, six great-grandchildren. Funeral today, 11:30 AM, Frank Patti Funeral Home, Fort Lee.     
 KAPNICK-Mary. Mary Tuttle Redus Johnson Kapnick of Naples, Florida, and Wilmette, Illinois, passed away on Sunday, October 20, 2002, at Naples Community Hospital. She was 76 years old. Mrs. Kapnick was born March 29, 1926, in St. Louis, Missouri, daughter of Hal Edward Redus and Margaret Bu
 LANDAU-Marjorie June. Fifty-nine years ago a southern belle married a lonely New York lieutenant. Her love of books and wit touched all who knew her. She was the loving wife of Seymour Landau, daughter of Ruby and Cuthbert Jones of Leitchfield, KY, devoted mother of Seymour Jr., John and Fr
 MOSS KOHOUTOVA-Joy. Of Prague, Czech Republic and New York City, died on October 18, 2002. Joy is survived by her son, Michal and his wife Marketa, daughter Katya and her husband Douglas, grandchildren Marek and Olivia. Joy was born on Staten Island and grew up in NYC. She held degrees from
 OLTARSH - Annabelle. On November 1, 2002, in her 103rd year. Beloved wife of the late Abraham L. Oltarsh. Loving mother of Kenneth (Naomi) and Duveena. Dear grandmother of Valerie (Rob) Oltarsh-McCarthy and Frederic (Rosa Reyes) Oltarsh. Proud great-grandmother of Alexander C. Oltarsh. Fune
 PAGANELLI-Dolores, MD, 74. Of White Plains, New York, died October 31, 2002. She was born April 6, 1928 to Armand and Elizabeth Paganelli. Her father, an Italian immigrant who came to this country in the early 1900's, was a pharmacist. She grew up in the Bronx, NY, and had one brother, Roge
 ROSENBERG-Sylva. Passed away Thursday night. Sylva was the loving and devoted wife of Louis. She was the beloved mother of Meir Rosenberg and Sue Thau. She is the cherished grandmother of eleven and great-grandmother of two. Sylva posessed a kind and gentle soul while maintaining great stre
 SIEGELTUCH-Abby Ellen. On October 12, 2002, in Cinderford, England. Loving sister to Joshua, Mark and Andrew, and loving step-sister to Mark Blumler. She left us too soon. We will love you always.       
 SPERLING - Jean. Beloved sister of Lillian and the late Doris. Adoring aunt of Bruce, Ira, Paula, Samuel & Rebecca. Retired school teacher. Died tragically in a fire in her apartment on October 28th. She is remembered by many friends. A memorial service was held at the Brotherhood Synagogue
 STACK-Helen Teresa (nee Collins). On November 1, 2002, in Roanoke, VA. Beloved wife of the late James H. Loving mother of William, Bob and Elizabeth. Proud grandmother of five grandchildren. Also survived by her brother Lt. Cdr. US Navy (Ret.) William T. Collins. Family wil receive friends 
 BONDI-Dr. Edith F. Born in Berlin, Germany, in 1919, widow of Arnold A., mother of Dr. Ardith Y. Bondi of New York City, and the late Eugene B., daughter of the late Eugen and Hedwig, sister of Helmut N. Friedlaender and trusted friend of Michael Parmet of Houston, and of many in the U.S. a
 GUTMAN-Lilly T. Beloved mother of Gabriele and Werner Levy, Steve and Elyse Gutman, and Susan and Frank Levy. Loving grandmother of Vivian, Michael and Rosalia; Erica and Larry; Michelle and Adam; Stephanie and Eric; Josh and Jessica; cherished great-grandmother of Jeffrey and Jason, Andrea
 MUNNELL-Frances Clark. November 1. Survived by her loved and loving husband Equinn W. Munnell, M.D., Emeritus Professor Columbia Prestyterian Medical Center. Her children are Thomas C. Munnell, Boston, Catherine M. Smith, Rome, Italy, Elizabeth H. Munnell, Boston. Seven grandchildren, three
 OLTARSH - Annabelle. On November 1, 2002, in her 103rd year. Beloved wife of the late Abraham L. Oltarsh. Loving mother of Kenneth (Naomi) and Duveena. Dear grandmother of Valerie (Rob) Oltarsh-McCarthy and Frederic (Rosa Reyes) Oltarsh. Proud great-grandmother of Alexander C. Oltarsh. Fune
 Annelisa M. Kilbourn, a British veterinarian and wildlife expert, who established that gorillas can die of the deadly Ebola virus, was killed Saturday when the light plane she was flying in crashed in the Lope Nature Preserve in the Central African nation of Gabon. She was 35. Worki
 BLAU-Marjorie Singer, 87 years of age, died in her sleep at her home in Pompano Beach, FL. on October 31, 2002. A graduate of NYU, she lived in New York City and Great Neck, NY from her birth in 1915 to her relocation in Florida in 1978. Among her many passions were golf, opera, the Marx Br
 BONDI-Edith. Camp Morasha mourns the passing of our dedicated Board member Edith Bondi. Together with her late husband Arnold A., Edith was instrumental in establishing the Bondi Educational Complex and Fine Arts Center. Her memory will be a source of inspiration to us at Camp Morasha. We e
 BRODIE - ROMANOFF - Patri cia. Died peacefully after a long illness on November 3, 2002 at the home of her daughter, Margot Scott Wakefield. She is survived by her brother Morris, her son, Dr. Jonathan Brodie and another daughter Susan Haas, as well as seven grandchildren, Jay, Ian, Jackson
 CAPASSO-Nancy. The Corcoran Group deeply mourns the passing of our friend and colleague Nancy Capasso. While Nancy was with the company for a short time she made a tremendous impact on us all. We feel so fortunate to have known her. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family for their
 DECKER - Katherine Kindred. Of Mountain Lakes, NJ and Haines Falls, NY, passed away on November 3 at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany, NY as a result of complications from scleroderma. She was 68. Kay was an avid gardener, reader and antiquarian print collector. Kay, the beloved wife of Ronal
 FISHER-Pearl. On November 3, 2002. Mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, source of great generosity and kindness, much to be missed. Beloved mother of Ivan, Jay and Samantha. Cherished grandmother of Felicia, Ari, Amy, Keri, Clay and Kittredge. Loving greatgranddmother of Jonah and Erika.
 GOLDEN-Eleanor (nee Millman). Of NYC, formerly of Avalon, New Jersey passed away Friday, November 1, 2002. Mrs. Golden, along with her late husband Robert, established the Golden Inn in Avalon in 1964. She actively supported many Cape May county NJ charities. She will be greatly missed by h
 KAUFMAN-Caroline H. Age 93, on November 4, 2002 in New York City. She is survived by her son Michael, four grandchildren and three great grandchildren; her sister Rose and her brother Justin and by numerous relatives and friends who mourn her passing. Funeral services will be held at the Ri
 KILDAHL-Joyce, 74. Died on November 2, 2002 at home in White Plains, NY, surrounded by her family. She was born in Spring Grove, MN on October 30, 1928. She graduated from St. Olaf College, and earned a Master's Degree in Special Education from Manhattan College. She retired from Manhattanv
 MUNNELL-Frances. The Society of the Alumni of the Sloane Hospital for Women, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, records with deep sadness the death of Frances Munnell, the wife of our esteemed colleague and alumnus, Dr. Equinn W. Munnell. Mrs. Munnell was a member of the Sloane Hospital 
 ROMANOFF-Patricia Brodie. Founding Board member and Life Trustee whose indomitable spirit, creativity and knack for bringing people together helped launch a reinvigorated historic hall. Her colleagues and friends will miss her and offer heart felt condolences to her family. Town Hall Founda
 KILBOURN - Annelisa. The Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of field veterinarian Dr. Annelisa Kilbourn, who perished in a plane crash in the central African nation of Gabon. For the past year, Dr. Kilbourn worked in Congo and Gabo
 McBRIDE - Nancy (nee Lowe), 82. Of Englewood, NJ and Norfolk, CT, died peacefully November 1, 2002, from complications resulting from Parkinson's. Survived by her devoted husband of 59 years, Donald McBride, Jr; her loving daughters, Susan Murphy of Baltimore, Elizabeth Nielsen of Annapolis
 van NES-Mary, 95. Died on October 28, 2002, at her son's home in Chester, CT. Active and independent for nine decades in the cultural and musical life of Westchester; honored by the City of Yonkers on numerous occasions. Mother of six, author, pianist, impresario, patron of aspiring musicia
 WISE-Ethel (Pastan). Age 92, of Brookline, MA. Wife of the late Robert. Generous fountain of love. Co-founder and director of Horizons for Youth Summer Camp for inner city kids. Raised three children, Harry H. Wise, Sara W. Kane and Cheryl Skura. Cherished by her five grand and seven great 
 WURTZBURGER - Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Raymond, cherished daughter of the late Bea and Ben Goldman. Loving mother of Linda and Lloyd Taub, and Ronny and Poppy Wurtzburger. Proud grandmother of 29 adoring grand and greatgrandchildren, Michele and Jeff Kahan (Allison, Brian and the l
 Tamara Kern Hareven, a social historian of the family and its place in contemporary society, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital in Newark, Del. She was 65 and lived in Newark, where she was on the faculty of the University of Delaware. The cause was kidney disease, said her lawyer, Perry
 BERGMAN-Ilse nee Katten. Beloved wife of the late Ernest, devoted mother of Jerry and Ellen, and adoring grandmother of Stephanie and Jason. Died peacefully on November 5 after a brief illness. Forced by the Nazis to flee her home in Frankenberg, Germany as a young woman, she joined her thr
 BERRY-Margaret E., 87. Died November 2, 2002 in Amherst, MA. She is identified with the Settlement House Movement, especially in the period 1940's-1960's. She was the past-president of the National Conference of Social Welfare and a member of the Cosmopolitan Club of New York. Funeral servi
 KLEIN-Audrey. Of Jamaica Estates on November 5. Predeceased by her cherished husband Stanley and son Michael. Survived by her beloved brother Gerald Green and sister-in-law Marlene of New Canaan, CT, daughter Roberta Klein of San Diego, CA, and son David L. Klein and daughter-in-law Darlene
 RENFIELD - Beatrice. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in mourning the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Beatrice Renfield, a member of the Beth Israel Board since 1988. She believed that 
 WEINER - Ann, 90, (nee Goodson) of NYC, died on Oct. 30, Boca Raton, FL. She is survived by her son Carl D. Weiner (Ruth A.) of St. Paul, MN; her son Robert A. Weiner (Arlene) of Pittsburgh, PA. She was the grandmother of Benjamin, Nicholas, Kevin, Matthew and Daniel Weiner & the great-gran
 WOLFSON-Edna, 94. Born April 6, 1908, passed away November 6, 2002, in Dallas, TX. Widow of Harry Wolfson. Survivors include her beloved children, Marcia May, and Richard Wolfson, adored granddaughters, Alexandra May Drew, Amy Elizabeth Wolfson, and Rachel Harriet Wolfson, and precious grea
 Vinnette Carroll, the trailblazing actress, director and playwright who was the first African-American woman to direct a production on Broadway, died Tuesday at her home in Fort Lauderhill, Fla. She was 80. The cause was complications from diabetes and heart disease, said Anita MacS
 CHENEY-Marijayne Zior. A woman of many facets and accomplishments - geologist, wife, musician, sister, petroleum executive, aunt and benefactor, died peacefully on Wednesday, November 6th in Manhattan with her husband Peter A. Cheney at her side following a decadelong encounter with breast 
 KLEIN-Audrey. Of Jamaica Estates on November 5. Predeceased by her cherished husband Stanley and son Michael. Survived by her beloved brother Gerald Green and sister-in-law Marlene of New Canaan, CT, daughter Roberta Klein of San Diego, CA, and son David L. Klein and daughter-in-law Darlene
 RENFIELD-Beatrice. On November 6, 2002 at age 88. Wife of the late Harold L. Mother of Robert L. and Anna Jo Dubow. Grandmother of Madeleine Pechner and Levin Renfield, Jason, Sara, Joshua, Benjamin, Molly, Jesse and Jonathan Dubow. Greatgrandmother of Ari and Isaac Dubow. Sister of Joseph 
 Anne Chotzinoff Grossman, a translator of grand opera and author of a culinary guide to Patrick O'Brian's popular seafaring tales, died on Tuesday at her home in West Gilgo Beach, on the barrier islands off Suffolk County, New York. She was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said Lisa G
 CHENEY-Marijayne Zior, 62. Beloved wife of Peter. Cherished sister and aunt, died peacefully on November 6th in Manhattan, after a 10-year battle with cancer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Sun 2-5 and 7-9PM with a service to follow at Campbell's on Monday
 RENFIELD-Beatrice. On November 6, 2002 at age 88. Wife of the late Harold L. Mother of Robert L. and Anna Jo Dubow. Grandmother of Madeleine Pechner and Levin Renfield, Jason, Sara, Joshua, Benjamin, Molly, Jesse and Jonathan Dubow. Greatgrandmother of Ari and Isaac Dubow. Sister of Joseph 
 BORST - Barbara. Died peacefully on October 21, aged 89. She survived her husband Lyle by only three months. Sadly missed by her children John, Stephen, Elizabeth, and their families.       
 FIELD-Lauren W., Esq. Died suddenly and unexpectedly. Deeply loved daughter of Rose Ashton-Irvine and the late Dr. G. George Field and the late Capt. Eric Ashton-Irvine. Remembrances in her memory to your favorite charity or The New York Times Hundred Neediest Cases, would be appreciated.  
 HARTGENS-Joan B. Daughter of Dennis and Josephine Robinson died peacefully in her home in New York City November 8, 2002, after an 11 year battle with cancer. She'll be greatly missed by her three children, eight grandchildren and many cherished friends, all of whom were blessed by her love
 RENFIELD-Beatrice. On November 6, 2002 at age 88. Wife of the late Harold L. Mother of Robert L. and Anna Jo Dubow. Grandmother of Madeleine Pechner and Levin Renfield, Jason, Sara, Joshua, Benjamin, Molly, Jesse and Jonathan Dubow. Greatgrandmother of Ari and Isaac Dubow. Sister of Joseph 
 SCHARFMAN - Yvette. Of New York City. Beloved wife of Ephraim of blessed memory. Beloved mother of Drs. Gerald, Ronnie and Edward Scharfman, grandmother of Andrew, Rachel, Ethan, Zachary, Emily and Brian. Passed away peacefully on November 8, 2002, after a long illness. She was a tireless f
 SILFEN-Susan. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Susan Silfen and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Norman & the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 SORKIN-Sophie. 91, on November 9. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Cherished mother of Nancy Sorkin Rabinowitz and the late Joan, deeply caring mother-in-law to Peter Rabinowitz and Sam Rebotsky, loving grandmother to Michael and Rachel Rabinowitz, adored aunt to many nieces and nephews, an in
 TAUSSIG-Harriet, 94, died on October 31, 2002, at Plymouth Harbor, Sarasota, Florida. She graduated from Vassar College, then came to New York City, where she held various positions in the publishing field, working up to editorin-chief of House and Garden, a position which she held between 
 VAGLIANO-Shirley L. On October 24, 2002, at age 75. Beloved mother of Barbara and Andre Vagliano. Devoted grandmother of Jason Vagliano, Sonia Vagliano-Fielding, Raphael Vagliano and Shena Vagliano - Fielding. Dear sister of Hampton Lynch and dear sister-in-law of Edith Bouriez. Dear aunt o
 SCHWEITZER-Dr. Nancy J. (Rubenfeld). 11/10/49-11/12/86. Love never dies. I'll love and miss you forever, my darling daughter. Julia will be 21 this month. She's great. Mom       
 Beatrice Renfield, a philanthropist who had been a longtime member of the board of directors of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, died on Wednesday at a medical center in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned
 NASSERI-Nahid. The Nour Foundation would like to extend its deepest condolences to Mr. Nasseri and his children for the sudden loss of Mrs. Nahid Nasseri, a dear friend whose kind and gentle spirit touched the lives of all those who knew her. Her dignified character and generous disposition
 SHAPIRO-Marjorie Kemble. She passed away peacefully on November 8, 2002, after a courageous struggle with brain cancer. Marjorie was the loving wife of the late Jerome Shapiro and a loving mother to Jeffrey, Jill, and E. Noach (Eric). She was a proud grandmother to Daniel, Laurie, Samuel, E
 Mary T. Kinnear, a former member of the Smithsonian National Board and a trustee of the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., died on Saturday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 73. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinn
 BAUER - Klara K. Died peacefully at her home on November 9, 2002, at the age of 92. She was the wife of Dr. Hans G. Bauer, who predeceased her. Over the years she volunteered at The Riverside Church, The Burden Center, and The Womens Agenda of New York. Visiting hours will be held at Krtil 
 BRODER-Muriel S. Peacefully passed away on November 11, 2002, Veteran's Day. She was a proud member of the U.S. Marine Corps, serving during World War II. Devoted wife of Stanley. Loving mother of Steven and Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Jackie. Devoted grandmother to Rachael and Dylan and si
 CHRZCZON-Ann Irene. On November 9, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Darlene Geurin, Thomas Chrzczon, Christine Chrzczon, Joanne Querol, Gregory Chrzczon and Jeffrey Chrzczon. Adoring grandmother of Cory Geurin, Lauren, Emily and Julia Querol. Dear sister of Florence No
 KINNEAR-Mary. It is with tremendous sadness and a great sense of loss that the entire Board and staff of The Metropolitan Opera mourn the death of Mary Kinnear, wife of our Chairman, James W. Kinnear. From the time of her husband's election as a managing director in 1989 and as Chairman of 
 KOLCE - Rita Goldman. Passed away peacefully on Saturday, November 9, 2002 after a short illness at age 104. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Survived by devoted daughter Harriet Fenton. Cherished grandmother to Sheila Rosen, Susan Tansey, Elyse Levy and Edward Cohen. Great-grandmother of 
 MURASHKOVSKY - Stacy. The Touro College family is profoundly saddened by the untimely demise of Stacy Murashkovsky, a brilliant student of our College for Women and an honors graduate of Moscow University/Touro, our branch campus in Russia. Stacy was the beautiful and loving child of our co
 NASSERI-Nahid. She was a gentle, kind and loving person, never to be forgotten. Condolences to her family. Forough and Marc Trop       
 ROTHSTEIN-Peggy, 93. Of Manhattan, NY, on November 10, 2002. Beloved grandmother to Debra Beth Rothstein. Devoted sister to Max Taub, Susan Weinstein and Emanuel Tabachnick. She was predeceased by her husband, William Rothstein; son, Jerald Rothstein; sister, Betty Krugman, Lee Seiffert. Sh
 SCHWARTZ-Elizabeth Jane. Age 46, died on November 10th, 2002 at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center. She was a senior associate at the Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison law firm and a graduate of Bryn Mawr College, Columbia Graduate School of Business and Vanderbilt Law School, whe
 SHAPIRO - Marjorie. The George London Foundation mourns the passing of our beloved member and extends our heartfelt sympathy to her children and grandchildren. Nora London, President       
 SULLIVAN - Bridget. Died peacefully November 11, 2002 in Bridgehampton, New York. Miss Sullivan was the longtime Personal Assistant to Ambassador Jean Kennedy Smith and her family. She was a native of Sneem County, Kerry, Ireland, and is survived by 3 sisters, Ann Fleming, Nora O'Leary, Peg
 Hilary Bader, an award-winning television scriptwriter, died on Thursday in Duarte, Calif. She was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was metastasized breast cancer, said her husband, Jay Broad. She wrote for both animated and live-action programs and was nominated seven
 BRESCIANI-Julie Q. November 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bresciani, loving mother of Arthur W. Bresciani, Jr., Julie E. Bresciani, Jeanne M. Bresciani, and Nicholas A. Bresciani. Cherished grandmother of Alessandra V. Bresciani, Stuart A. Orenstein and Alexander LeSassier. S
 CHRZCZON-Ann Irene. On November 9, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Darlene Geurin, Thomas Chrzczon, Christine Chrzczon, Joanne Querol, Gregory Chrzczon and Jeffrey Chrzczon. Adoring grandmother of Cory Geurin, Lauren, Emily and Julia Querol. Dear sister of Florence No
 DICKINSON-Eileen Durning, who was President of the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC) under Governor Hugh Carey, head business researcher for Time and Fortune magazines, and Chairman of the Time, Inc. unit of the Newspaper Guild, died peacefully on Saturday in PA. S
 KINNEAR-Mary. A loyal and dedicated alumna and former member of the Board of Trustees of The Ethel Walker School. Her commitment, enthusiasm and deep caring for the School will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with her. She is part of a great family tradition of Walker's women i
 NILSEN-Margot L. Born Sather, died peacefully, on Nov. 11, 2002 at the age of 97 at Shore Hill in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, NY. Survived by her son, Lars with wife Harriet and granddaughter Ingrid Louise, sister-in-law, Kathrine Sather. Funeral private.       
 POPPER-Margaret Stern, on November 9th. Maggie the potter, athlete, photographer, beauty, gardener, tutor, map maker, and enchanter of children will be forever honored by her husband William, her children Marjorie and Michael, her grandchildren Adrian, Naomi, Lydia and Ben and her other fam
 SCHWARTZ-Elizabeth Jane. Age 46, died on November 10th, 2002 at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center. She was a senior associate at the Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison law firm and a graduate of Bryn Mawr College, Columbia Graduate School of Business and Vanderbilt Law School, whe
 SHAPIRO-Marjorie Kemble. She passed away peacefully on November 8, 2002, after a courageous struggle with brain cancer. Marjorie was the loving wife of the late Jerome Shapiro and a loving mother to Jeffrey, Jill, and E. Noach (Eric). She was a proud grandmother to Daniel, Laurie, Samuel, E
 SHERMAN - Ruth Snyder, M.D. Of Northport, LI. Formerly of NYC, NY & Roxbury, CT. on November 11, 2002 in her 92nd year. Wife of the late Robert Stanton Sherman, M.D. Mother of Ruth S. Perkins, Robert S. Sherman and Roger H. Sherman. Sister of Marjorie Reuthe, and grandmother of nine. Reposi
 ADLER-Rhoda. The entire Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway community is deeply saddened by the passing of Rhoda Adler, beloved wife of the late Dr. Donald Adler. Together, the Adlers were distinguished founders of the Hillel School, one of HAFTR's predecessor yeshivot. We extend 
 BOLAND - Ruth M. (nee Montgomery). A native of Dublin, Ireland. Peacefully in her sleep on November 8th. Beloved wife of the late Lt. Col. John P. Boland. Devoted mother of Eithne Boland, Ann Krupp, Eavan Hooke and Ellen Hagan. Cherished grandmother of six. Reposing at the Gannon Funeral Ho
 BRESCIANI-Julie Q. November 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bresciani, loving mother of Arthur W. Bresciani, Jr., Julie E. Bresciani, Jeanne M. Bresciani, and Nicholas A. Bresciani. Cherished grandmother of Alessandra V. Bresciani, Stuart A. Orenstein and Alexander LeSassier. S
 DUNN-Eleanor Mary (nee Brady). Daughter of the late Mary and Arthur Diamond Dunn. Granddaughter of Judge John J. Brady. Died Monday, November 11, 2002 at the Westhampton Care Facility. She was 97. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated at a later date. Inquires to the R.J. O'Shea Funeral Home, 
 MILLSON - Anne. Beloved aunt, cousin and french teacher. A Barnard graduate, she taught at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn for over thirty years.       
 ROSENBAUM - Dora. Be loved wife of Samuel. Survived by her children Edward, Donald and Judith, her sister Sarah, her three grandchildren and her four great grandchildren. A warm woman who will be missed by her family. Services today 11:30 AM Parkside Memorial, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn.  
 SCHWARTZ-Elizabeth Jane. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the untimely death of Elizabeth Jane Schwartz. She will be remembered for her brilliance, vitality and courage under affliction. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her parents, Nora and Gabriel Schwartz, and all her dear ones. Robe
 BRESCIANI-Julie Q. November 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Bresciani, loving mother of Arthur W. Bresciani, Jr., Julie E. Bresciani, Jeanne M. Bresciani, and Nicholas A. Bresciani. Cherished grandmother of Alessandra V. Bresciani, Stuart A. Orenstein and Alexander LeSassier. S
 FELDMAN-Esther (Zuckerman), 93, on November 13. Beloved wife of the late Joseph P. Feldman, loving mother of Kenneth, Carole (Bisker) and David, cherished grandmother of Ellia and Joshua, sister of Lucille Zinman. NYU class of '29, retired social worker at the Jewish Home and Hospital. She 
 NELSON - REPINSKY - Ger trude. On Thursday, November 14, 2002. She was preceded in death by her husbands, Philip Nelson and Al Solot, four sisters, one brother and a grandson. She is survived by her beloved husband Abe Repinsky, devoted children Daniel and Eleanor Nelson, Barbara and Martin
 PARKER-Josephine Henry, 85, of Armonk, NY. Daughter of the late Seton and Josephine (Drexel) Henry. Survived by her husband, Thomas R. Parker, her five children and her six grandchildren. Funeral service at St. Stephens Episcopal Church, Armonk, NY on November 16 at 1 PM. Interment private.
 SHAPIRO-Marjorie Kemble. She passed away peacefully on November 8, 2002, after a courageous struggle with brain cancer. Marjorie was the loving wife of the late Jerome Shapiro and a loving mother to Jeffrey, Jill, and E. Noach (Eric). She was a proud grandmother to Daniel, Laurie, Samuel, E
 STARK-Pearl. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Pearl Stark, an esteemed member and extend to her beloved husband, William and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secretary       
 WINKELSTEIN - Marilyn, CSW. On November 12th at the age of 72. Beloved wife of Charles, loving mother of Peter and Nancy, daughter-inlaw Kendra, and son-in-law Christopher Plaut. Devoted grandmother of Devlin, Camden, Nathan and Susan, and Caitlin and Matthew Plaut. Memorial service Sunday,
 Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn. Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms
 BOURNE-Gail (Wadro). On November 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Saul Bourne. A woman of compassion, wisdom, integrity and books. She is survived by her children, Mikki and Jeff, and her grandchildren, Sari, Josh and Danny. We will miss you forever.       
 FLORENTINO-Erlinda Z. On November 14, 2002. Survived by her three ''kiddies'', ChaChi, Cappucine and Camilla. Loving sister of Marilu and Mariano. Reposing at Walter B. Cooke, 352 E. 87th St., NYC, Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9. Funeral Mass, Blessed Sacrament RCC. Tuesday, 10AM, Broadway 
 LEFF-Marilyn. On November 14, 2002, age 75. Devoted and loving wife of 50 years to Milton. Beloved mother of Fred and the late Lenny. Fond mother-in-law of Grace. Cherished grandmother of Martin, Laura and David. She will be missed by all. Services Sunday 1 P.M. from the I.J. Morris Inc. Fu
 NELSON - REPINSKY - Ger trude. On Thursday, November 14, 2002. She was preceded in death by her husbands, Philip Nelson and Al Solot, four sisters, one brother and a grandson. She is survived by her beloved husband Abe Repinsky, devoted children Daniel and Eleanor Nelson, Barbara and Martin
 ROGOL-Florence, 88. Of Rockville Centre, NY, on November 14, 2002. Widowed in 1958, Florence picked herself up and forged a vibrant life on her own terms. A trusted office manager of a successful firm, she found time to read extensively, pursue her passion for operas and concerts, and to su
 BASSEN-Frances, 91. On November 14, 2002. Beloved mother of Sally Morse and Nancy Mayer, devoted wife of Frank Bassen, cherished grandmother of Carl and Daniel Mayer, adored greatgrandmother of Samuel and Ruby Mayer. She was a woman of great beauty, dignity and artistic achievement who was 
 BILLINGS-Josephine Swift. The Board of Directors and Staff of United Hospital Fund are saddened by the death of Josephine Billings. A beloved and revered member of the Fund's board for 47 years, she was an enthusiastic supporter of the Fund's mission to shape positive change in healthcare f
 CARNIOL-Diane. On November 14, 2002. Beloved wife of David, mother of Norman, Paul and Rhonda, mother-inlaw to Renie Carniol and Leonard Adler. Devoted grandmother of Aimee, Steven, Michael, Alan, Eric, Lisa, Michelle, April and Andrew. Whose love and caring permeated through the family & w
 COHEN-Ceil S. November 12, 2002, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Wife of Harold. Mother of Mark and Beth. Grandmother of Alexandra, Matthew, Jordana, Marleina. She was a devoted educator and volunteer.       
 ESACK-Nancy. Passed away on November 2, 2002 of a heart attack. She is survived by her daughter Justine and her granddaughter Olivia. She was a 4th grade teacher in Ramstein, Germany. She was loved and will be missed.       
 ETTENBERG-Billye. Adored wife of the late Max, proud mother of Florence Janovic and Madeline Fried, motherin-law of Evan (''from Heaven'') Janovic and the late Leonard Fried. Doting grandmother of Joseph and Adam Janovic and Laura Dines, loving great-grandmother of Valerie, Max, Phoebe, Gra
 FARRELL-Doris. ''Mother Chasidah''. November 9, 2002. Beloved mother of Anita and James. Truly a pillar within the Ethiopian Hebrew Israelite community. She will be missed by all.       
 FUCHS-Lillian. On November 12, 2002, of Forest Hills, Queens. Lillian was a joyful, happy person and a kind and caring sister, aunt, cousin and friend. She loved being with people and made many enduring friendships. She loved to travel and collected beautiful items from foreign lands. We wi
 HELMAN-Shirley. On November 14, 2002. Adored wife of the late Jack Helman. Mother of Ira (Nancy) Helman and Ruth (Jerry) Porush. Beloved grandmother of Maureen Sery, Daniel (Lisa) Porush, Karen (Tom) Trowbridge, Jimmy (Sharlene), Nathan and Samuel Helman, Nancy Porush. Great-grandmother of 
 JANSSEN-Linda. Architect and an authority on the NYC zoning laws. Died on November 13, 2002. Linda had worked for the NYC Department of City Planning for almost 30 years prior to her retirement in July of this year. A wake will be held at the Gannon Funeral Home, 152 E. 28th St, NYC, Sunday
 NICHOLLS - Enid Maud. Daughter of the late Mr. & Mrs. Sydney Francis Nicholls of London and Lucerne, died November 12, 2002 at home in New York City. She is survived by a nephew Peter Nicholls. Funeral Service at St. Bartholomews Church Chapel, Park Ave and 50th, on Friday, November 22, 11 
 PERMAN-Rose. 85, of Scarsdale, NY, formerly of the Bronx, NY, passed away at home on November 15, 2002. Wife of the late Dr. Abraham H. Perman who predeceased her in 1987. Loving mother of Frank Berman of Tampa, FL, Lynne Perman Schneider, and son - in - law Robert Schneider of Chappaqua, N
 ROGOL-Florence, 88. Of Rockville Centre, NY, on November 14, 2002. Widowed in 1958, Florence picked herself up and forged a vibrant life on her own terms. A trusted office manager of a successful firm, she found time to read extensively, pursue her passion for operas and concerts, and to su
 ROSENBERG-Linda Greene. Our beautiful, darling, Linda, you have always made us so very proud and happy. You will be on our minds and in our hearts 'till we are reunited. Love, Mom and Dad ROSENBERG-Linda Greene. We mourn the loss of our dear friend who gave so much love and warmth t
 SABARSKY-Vally. On November 10, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Serge. She will be missed by numerous relatives and friends. Services Monday, 11:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, N.Y.C.       
 SCHNEIDER - Anna. Al though her heart is still, her spirit lives on in all who knew her. Beloved wife of Joe. Cherished mother of Sondra Kleinman and Martin Schneider. Adored by her daughter-in-law Sherry and son - in - law Sol. Devoted grandmother to Robyn, Jay, Gary, Sari, Jeffrey, Beth, 
 ZACHARIAS - Muriel E. (''Muz''), 85, of Gladwyne, PA. Formerly of Wilton, CT., and Pomfret, VT. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory can be made to Swarthmore College Annual Fund, Swarthmore, PA. 19081.       
 ZAPHIROPOULOS - Augusta. November 5, 2002, age 89. Born in France, she graduated from The Sorbonne in 1939 and later completed her graduate degree in Education at Bank Street Teachers College. She joined the faculty of Sarah Lawrence College in 1964 and was made Professor Emerita in 1981. A
 ASCH - Paula. Co - founded POPA with Max Schnapp. Memorial tribute November 24th, 1PM at her home, 2955 Brighton 7th Street, Brooklyn.       
 KRESA-Jean (nee Boutelle). November 16, at 96. Born in Winchendon, MA, September 12, 1906. Longtime voice teacher in Bayside, NY, and wife of the late Helmy Kresa, former General Manager of Irving Berlin Music Company, passed away peacefully in her sleep at home in Bayside. Survived by her 
 MEIROWITZ - Bella. Died peacefully on November 17, 2002. Cherished mother of Hank Meirowitz. Beloved sister of Sophie Chait. Adored aunt of the Goldstein, Chait and Gitlin families. Cousin Bobbie Deitch and lifetime companion Frances Price. A lady with a big heart, great warmth and love, an
 Florence Segal Lowe, a retired public relations executive and journalist who managed communications for the National Endowment for the Arts from 1970 to 1986, died on Thursday in Washington. She was 93 and lived in the Georgetown section of Washington. She and her husband, Herman Lo
 BILLINGS-Josephine. It is with sadness that the Board of Trustees of the New York Blood Center records the death of its former Trustee. Mrs. Billings was an early advocate of the Blood Center and dedicated member of the Board. She contributed greatly to the Center's growth. We extend our sy
 DOLAN-Ruth Sanford. A retired New York City schoolteacher died on November 16, 2002 at the age of 91. She attended James Monroe High School in the Bronx, Columbia University and the New York Conservatory of Music. She taught early childhood elementary school at P.S. 46, 94 and 18. After ret
 HOEXTER-Fern M., 93. Of Boca Raton, died peacefully on November 17th. Adored wife of the late Jack, loving, proud mother of Dr. Barton, Dr. David Hoexter, Joan Goldberg, beloved mother-inlaw of Nadia, June, Howard, grandmother of Jill, Laura, Ken, Liz, Jonathan, Deborah, Andrew, Elyssa, Jac
 KEISER-Ruth. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children Services notes with sadness the death of Ruth Keiser, beloved grandmother of Laurie Netter Sprayregen; a devoted agency trustee and past Chair of the Ittleson Center. Mrs. Keiser was a generous supporter of JBFCS 
 LASSOFF-Rose. Died on November 17th, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Harold, loved mother of Mindy and Steven. Devoted sister of the late Minnie Mass. Funeral services private. She was loved and will be missed.       
 LUCHINS-Dr. Edith H. A distinguished educator and prolific scholar for four decades at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Survived by her husband, 2 sisters, 5 children and their spouses, 22 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren. Funeral at Park Side/ Brooklyn, Tuesday, 11AM. LUCH
 MARKEL-Madeline G. Died November 10, 2002 at the age of 78 while visiting family members in Atlanta, GA. She was a graduate of White Plains High School, and graduated the Bouvier School of Tufts University. She interrupted her college career serving in the Medical Department of the Army as 
 RUBINOW - Jean. Beloved sister of Marian Orleans and sister-in-law of Dr. Julian Orleans of Livingston, NJ; sister of Ron Rubinow of New York City, and cherished aunt of Alison Conte and Danny, Bill, Ellen and Ilo Orleans, died suddenly last week in her East Hampton home. She was 82. A gift
 SCHLESINGER-Helen. On November 18, 2002 in her 95th year. Devoted and loving wife of Paul for 70 years. Proud mother of Stanley and Helen, Stuart and Linda. Beloved and dedicated grandmother of Kenneth & Alison, Karen and Gary Yablon, Adam and Natasha, Michael and Bari, Lauren. Adoring grea
 SCHNABEL - Esta Green berg, 89. Born March 6, 1913, died, Sunday, November 17, 2002. Beloved wife and sweetheart of Jack. Devoted mother to Andrea, Stephen, Julian. Affectionate aunt to Jesse. Loved mother-in-law to Renee and Olatz. Adored sister to Mary and Beatrice, sisterin-law to Nat an
 Carole Kismaric, an innovative editor and book packager who helped start the Time-Life Photography Series and for 10 years was editorial director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 60. The 
 BRAINARD-Katharine. The School for Strings, its faculty, staff, students, parents and Trustees deeply mourn the passing of Katharine Brainard. In her many capacities as the head of the Cello Department, Chamber Music Faculty, Teacher, Trainer and a mentor to her students and their families,
 GLEYSTEEN-Mary Hoge, 95. Died on November 18, 2002 in Gloucester, VA. She was the widow of T. Carter Gleysteen. She is survived by a daughter, son, and a sister. A memorial service will be held in Gloucester, VA.       
 HAGGERTY - Kathleen Trum. Mrs. Kathleen Trum Haggerty of Manhasset and North Palm Beach, FL. died after an extended illness on November 19th, 2002. She is survived by her two sons, Dr. Robert W. Haggerty and Brian H. Haggerty, six grandchildren, and three greatgrandchildren. Mrs. Haggerty w
 HUDLER - Virginia Wikoff. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Nancy H. and Gerd Keuffel, grandchildren, William G., Eric L. and Susan H. Keuffel. Memorial Service will be held on Friday, November 22nd at 2PM at the Lawrenceville Presbyterian Church, Lawrenceville, NJ.       
 PACK - Laura. At home, peacefully, on November 16, 2002 at 86. Beloved mother of Robert and Judy Pack, widow of Richard Pack and loving sister of Ruth Winston. She is also survived by two grandchildren, Jeremiah and Alex Pack. We love you and will miss you more than words can say. Donations
 RADER-Lynn Ossa. Loving and devoted wife and mother died November 18 at age 55. She is survived by her husband Matt, her daughter Amber Sexton and many close friends. She was a gifted and passionate artist and jeweler with a piece in the permanent collection at MOMA. She was a founder of En
 SCHLESINGER-Helen. On November 18, 2002 in her 95th year. Devoted and loving wife of Paul for 70 years. Proud mother of Stanley and Helen, Stuart and Linda. Beloved and dedicated grandmother of Kenneth & Alison, Karen and Gary Yablon, Adam and Natasha, Michael and Bari, Lauren. Adoring grea
 WOLDER-Johanna. November 17. Adored wife of the late Stanley Wolder; will be loved and missed forever by her sister Pearl Loew; daughters and sons-in-law Meg Wolder & James Walkup and Bruce & Betty Wolder Levin; and grandchildren Jake, Laura & Joel. Her sweetness, exuberance and strength in
 ZELBY-Rosalind B. November 17. Beloved wife of the late Nathan E., adoring Mom of Diane & Richard Strasser, Susan and David, proud grandma of Karen, Leslie & Andrea. We will cherish the memory of her extraordinary life. Words cannot express the love we feel. She will be with us always.     
 Kim Gallagher, a slim but strong runner who overcame endless illnesses to win a silver medal in the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics and a bronze in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, died Monday in a Philadelphia hospital. She was 38 and lived in Oreland, Pa. The cause of death was a stroke, her hu
 BARNERT-Ida Beth Blatt. Born in Buffalo, NY in 1919, the youngest of eight brothers and sisters, died in San Antonio on Monday, November 18, 2002. Ida, and her husband Milton, operated Barnert's Toy Store in New York City for 20 years. Ida and Milton moved to San Antonio from New York City 
 FISHOF-Edith. Resident of Manhattan. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Passed away November 20th. She is survived by her sons David and Joey. Grandchildren Shira (Shlomo), Josh, Ilana, Chaim (Aviva), Yonina, Scholom, Chaviv. Great-granddaughter Soro Rochel. Edith was a lovi
 FRAGIN-Sylvia. The faculty and students of Yeshiva Telshe Alumni extend our warmest sympathies to the Fragin family upon the loss of their mother. Grandma Sylvia will forever be remembered by her kindness, sincerity, warmth and infectious smile. Her memory lives on through her children, gra
 HOEXTER-Fern M., 93. P.S. 6 mourns the passing of a truly outstanding friend and teacher. She enriched many young lives. With sympathy to our teacher Joan Hoexter Goldberg and her family. The Entire P.S. 6 Community       
 MURPHY - Grace Isabel. Beautiful daughter of Libby and Peter Murphy died on November 20, 2002, age 5. She was too good for this world. Visiting hours at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Le Count Place, New Rochelle, NY 10801, Friday, November 22, 6:30-9:30 PM. Funeral services at St. Vi
 NICHOLLS - Enid Maud. Daughter of the late Mr. & Mrs. Sydney Francis Nicholls of London and Lucerne, died November 12, 2002 at home in New York City. She is survived by a nephew Peter Nicholls. Funeral Service at St. Bartholomews Church Chapel, Park Ave and 50th, on Friday, November 22, 11 
 ROSE-Sybil, 94. Of Charlottesville, VA, formerly of Miami Beach, FL and Leonia, NJ, passed away on November 19, 2002 after a long illness. Wife of the late Allan Rose, who predeceased her in 1967. Survived by her sister Ann Lewis and brother Murray Kane. Beloved mother of Arthur and Bo, mot
 USLAN-Ruth. January 26, 1913-November 17, 2002. A wise and dear friend whom we loved. We will always cherish her memory. Louise and Kurt       
 LYON-Andy Logan. Her legacy lives on with her family and New York journalism. Jon, Pari and Corinn       
 BILLINGS-Josephine Swift. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Brooklyn Hospital Center are saddened by the death of Mrs. George M. Billings. Mrs. Billings joined The Brooklyn Hospital Center as a Member of the Board of Trustees in 1957, serving as President from 1970 to 1982, and as Chai
 BRAINARD - Katharine. Mannes College of Music deeply mourns the passing of Katharine Brainard, master musician, teacher, and colleague for four decades. She will be missed by her current and former students, as well as by all of her colleagues. Joel Lester, Dean Sue Ann Kahn, Director Prepa
 DEUTSCH-Frances S. (nee Rachman). Wife of the late Dr. Harry Deutsch. Will be missed by Larry, Doris, Ann Rita, Ronnie, Philip, Susan, Andy, Marjorie, Erika, Zoe, David and Hillary. DEUTSCH-Frances. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long-standing memb
 HALPER-Ann Barnes. Book lover, died at home in New Hartford, CT, of glioblastoma. Attended City & Country '46, New Lincoln '50, Radcliffe '54. Predeceased by her husband Joseph Halper. Survived by her daughters Margaret Bloodgood and Sarah Halper, their husbands Chip Bloodgood and Tor Krogi
 Helen Levi Travis, a peace and social activist and the subject of a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that upheld her right to travel abroad, died on Nov. 14 in San Pedro, Calif. She was 86. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Travis graduated from Barnard College in 1937. A student trip to the Soviet 
 Lynda Van Devanter, whose pained account of her life as an Army nurse in Vietnam focused attention on the burdens of American servicewomen in the war, died on Nov. 15 at her home in Herndon, Va. She was 55. At the Vietnam Veterans of America, where Ms. Van Devanter founded and admin
 Madeline Greenleaf Jaynes, a researcher, librarian and editor, died yesterday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 59. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Jaynes was a news researcher for The New York Times from 1971 to 1978 and later for CNN in Atlanta. For the last five
 ANGEN-Elda, 87, died quietly at home of Alzheimer's disease. Predeceased by her husband, Willard F. Angen. Her death is mourned by her daughter Anne A. Gershon, her son-in-law Michael D. Gershon, her grandchildren Perry Gershon, Timothy Gershon and Dana Gershon Pesner, their spouses Lisa Ge
 HALPER-Ann Barnes. Book lover, died at home in New Hartford, CT, of glioblastoma. Attended City & Country '46, New Lincoln '50, Radcliffe '54. Predeceased by her husband Joseph Halper. Survived by her daughters Margaret Bloodgood and Sarah Halper, their husbands Chip Bloodgood and Tor Krogi
 HARNETT-Rosalind. On November 20, 2002. Wife of the late Edward A. Harnett. Survived by brothers Martin Nass and Sylvan Nass and their children. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions in her memory may be sent to the Pulmonary ICU Unit at Beth Israel Hospital.       
 MATZ-Milicent. Died at her home on November 16, 2002 at age 89. Funeral service will be held Tuesday, November 26 at 1:30 PM at St. James' Church, Madison Ave. at 71st Street in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Animal Rescue Fund of Wainscot, NY.       
 McGRAW-Anne. We deeply mourn the death of Ann McGraw, the beloved wife for 62 years of our fellow Trustee, Harold McGraw Jr. Anne was a wonderful member of the New York Public Library family and we shall miss her greatly. We extend to all of the McGraw family our deepest condolences at this
 SPRAFKIN-Ida Squire. Age 94, formerly of Kings Point and Brooklyn, New York on November 22, 2002. Beloved wife of Samuel, devoted mother of David and daughter-in-law Hildy, adoring grandmother of Mara and Jenna. Interment private at Beth-El Cemetery. Contributions may be made to the Brookly
 STONE-Antonia. Of Watertown, MA., formerly of New York City. Died at her home November 21, 2002 after a long illness. An inspiring woman and mother of Rebecca, Nicholas and Christopher, who miss her greatly. Donations in her memory may be sent to CTCNet, 372 Broadway, Cambridge, MA. 02139. 
 Hadda Brooks, the smoky-voiced torch singer and pianist who was known in the 1940's as the Queen of the Boogie and came out of retirement in the late 1980's to gain new popularity with younger audiences, died on Thursday at 86. She died at White Memorial Hospital in Los Angeles, a f
 COOGAN-Inge Bruns. Of Bedford, MA, formerly of Concord, MA, Shelter Island, NY, and Lynbrook, NY. Died peacefully on November 22, at the age of 83. She is survived by her six children, Michael of Concord, MA, Mary Horan of Pawtucket, RI, Margaret of Arlington, VA, Elizabeth Lueke of Louisvi
 DANZOLL - Mary Graves. November 21, 2002, age 98, in Richmond, VA. Mrs. Danzoll was the widow of the Venerable Francis S. Danzoll. Her father was the late Charles M. Graves, a former editor of the New York Times. Her mother was the late Blair Harvie Graves, of Richmond, VA. Mrs. Danzoll was
 DONADEO-Jean Elaine. October 30, 2002. Wife of the late Dr. John Donadeo; mother of Anne and John; grandmother of John, Julian, Pia and Sophia. Contributions in her memory may be made to the New Jersey Conservation Foundation, Far Hills, N.J.       
 FEINERMAN-Adele (nee Muss). On November 21, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Feinerman; loving mother of Larry (Pattie) of Voorhees, N.J., Bruce (Ellen) of Owings Mills, MD., & David Holly) of Muttontown, N.Y. Loving grandmother of Charlie and Kelly, Joel and Elyse and Tyler, Jordan & 
 HALPER-Ann Barnes. Book lover, died at home in New Hartford, CT, of glioblastoma. Attended City & Country '46, New Lincoln '50, Radcliffe '54. Predeceased by her husband Joseph Halper. Survived by her daughters Margaret Bloodgood and Sarah Halper, their husbands Chip Bloodgood and Tor Krogi
 HARNETT-Rosalind. On November 20, 2002. Wife of the late Edward A. Harnett. Survived by brothers Martin Nass and Sylvan Nass and their children. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions in her memory may be sent to the Pulmonary ICU Unit at Beth Israel Hospital.       
 KASSEL - Norma. Beloved wife of the late Jerry. Dear mother of Lewis Kassel and Terry Kassel. Loving grandmother of Stephen, David, Joanna, Daniel and Matthew. Donations in her memory may be made to Long Beach Hospital.       
 LAYE-Ruth (nee Knopf). Wonderful mom, aunt, sister, friend. We miss her already. Shiva at her home from Sunday, 2PM.       
 MAYLAND-Betty. 90. Died at home surrounded by her family on November 23, 2002. Beautiful and beloved wife of the late Irving W. Devoted mother of Andrea (Bachner), Peter and his wife Laurel. Adoring grandmother of Brandon, Randall, Katherine, Gabriel, Melissa and her husband David, and lovi
 SCHUPP-Lynn Lidz, 66. Of Carmel, NY, on October 27, 2002, in Costa Mesa, CA, from complications of lung cancer. Her husband, William Schupp, passed away similarly four months ago. Survived by two sons, Mark and James Eichenbaum, her mother, Helene Linenthal, and two grandchildren, a boy and
 SOLLINGER - Rebecca. Adored widow of the late Jack Sollinger, died on November 16, 2002, with her family at her bedside. ''Aunt Betty,'' a former U.S.O. volunteer, was also a dedicated teacher who taught reading to underprivileged children. She and Jack traveled frequently and made friends 
 TROTT-Louise V. Loving and loved aunt, greataunt and great-grandaunt. She will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Contributions to St. Monica's, 413 East 79 Street, NYC 10021.       
 UNGER-Pearl. The Yeshiva University Family mourns the passing of a deeply cherished friend who, together with her late beloved husband Milton, was a Benefactor. They established the Milton and Pearl Unger Department of Jewish Studies at The Marsha Stern Talmudical Academy-Yeshiva University
 Josephine S. Billings, a longtime volunteer advocate of improving health care in New York City, died on Nov. 14 in Bloomfield, Conn., where she had been living recently. She was 95 and formerly lived in Brooklyn. For six decades she was a prominent volunteer in New York City in the 
 CONNORTON-Grace Guerin. Died peacefully at home at age 91 on November 24. Beloved wife of the late Dr. John V. Connorton. Loving mother of John V. Connorton, Jr., Mary Connorton FitzGerald, Margaret Connorton Reilly, the late Kevin J. Connorton, M.D., Jane Connorton Honig and Peter Connorto
 FIELD-Muriel (Mickey). On November 23, 2002, in Albuquerque, NM. Loving mother of Mark Pestronk, Jimmy Pestronk and Peggy Koeppel, and their spouses Pam Wright, Isabel Pestronk and Harvey Koeppel. Adoring grandmother of Matthew, Allison, Michael, Lauren and Alexander. Memorial services Tues
 HELED-Terry B. On November 24, 2002 at age 56. This elegant, intelligent, humorous, kind, spirited and beautiful wife, mother, sister and friend passed away suddenly at her home in New York. Beloved wife of Simca Heled. Loving mother of Mali Kinberg and her husband Simon Kinberg. Loving and
 MATZ-Milicent. Died at her home on November 16, 2002 at age 89. Funeral service will be held Tuesday, November 26 at 1:30 PM at St. James' Church, Madison Ave. at 71st Street in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Animal Rescue Fund of Wainscot, NY.       
 RAINES - Bertha Estelle Walker, age 95, died on November 23 at her home in Birmingham, Ala. She was born January 1, 1907, in Arley, Ala. Her husband, W.S. Raines, died on Oct. 6, 2002. She is survived by a daughter, Mary Jo Raines Dean of Mountain Brook, Ala.; two sons, Jerry W., of Birming
 SECULAR-Gertrude. Passed away peacefully on November 23, in her home. Dear sister and sister-in-law of Richard and Flora Secular. Loving aunt of Keith, David, Lisa, Howard and Leslie Secular, and beloved great-aunt of their children. Private funeral services will be held.       
 SELZER - Shirley March. Born on June 5, 1927, died Saturday morning, November 23, 2002, quietly in her sleep. Shirley was born to Esther Kwitko and David March, both immigrants from the Ukraine in the early years of the last century. She is survived by her brother Ronald, sister Sonia, her 
 SMITH-Rosann Lipe Foote. 95, died November 21, Dorest, VT. Survivors are: Ray P. Foote Jr., of Greenwich, CT, Jonathan L. Foote, of Livingston, MT, Geoffrey G. Foote of Ovando, MT, and her daughter Ann Smith of Wickenberg, AZ. Brewster Funeral Service, www.nsm.org/convey.       
 TABIAN-Evelyn C. 81, died as gracefully as she lived on November 23. Survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan and daughter and son-in-law, Karen and Steven McGivney, of Teaneck, NJ. Reposing at Macagna Diffily Funeral Home, 41 Ames Ave., Rutherford, NJ, 201-939-0098, Monday and Tuesday, 2-4 
 CONNORTON-Grace Guerin. Died peacefully at home at age 91 on November 24. Beloved wife of the late Dr. John V. Connorton. Loving mother of John V. Connorton, Jr., Mary Connorton FitzGerald, Margaret Connorton Reilly, the late Kevin J. Connorton, M.D., Jane Connorton Honig and Peter Connorto
 DiFALCO-Emma G., passed away on November 24, 2002 at age 94 at the Mary Manning Walsh home after a brief illness. Wife of the late NY County Surrogate Judge S. Samuel DiFalco. She was prominent in her own right in New York City politics and community affairs. She managed campaigns for Gov. 
 FEGAN-Mary (nee Hourigan). November 22 just shy of her 82nd birthday. Adored child of Jack Hourigan and Loretta Collins. Much loved mother of Annie, Laurie and Robert; best mother-in-law of Charles and Mary; and loving Grand Mary of Quinn Fegan. She leaves behind her bereft family and a mul
 FIELD-Muriel (Mickey). On November 23, 2002, in Albuquerque, NM. Loving mother of Mark Pestronk, Jimmy Pestronk and Peggy Koeppel, and their spouses Pam Wright, Isabel Pestronk and Harvey Koeppel. Adoring grandmother of Matthew, Allison, Michael, Lauren and Alexander. Memorial services Tues
 HARKINS-Virginia. 90, died November 18, 2002. She was born June 9, 1912 in Baltimore, MD, daughter of the late Frank H. and Mary (Vons) Gunther.       
 HELED-Terry B. On November 24, 2002 at age 56. This elegant, intelligent, humorous, kind, spirited and beautiful wife, mother, sister and friend passed away suddenly at her home in New York. Beloved wife of Simca Heled. Loving mother of Mali Kinberg and her husband Simon Kinberg. Loving and
 HOCHMEISTER-Mathilde J. Age 90. Of Millbrook, N.Y., formerly of Queens, died Saturday, November 23, 2002. She was one of the first female graduates of Cornell University in 1934, and worked as the Administrator of Social Services for the South Bronx. She was pre-deceased by her brother Thom
 KORNBLUM-Martha. The beloved wife of the late Daniel. Devoted mother of William and Peter. Cherished grandmother of Noah, Eve, and Johanna. She was a retired instructor at Queens College. Services Tuesday at 12 PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.   
 KRANTZ - Regina (Jean), passed away peacefully on November 8th, 2002. She has joined her beloved husband Irving who predeceased her on December 27th, 2000. She is survived by her son Larry and his wife Marilyn, her brother Robert and his wife Bea, adored nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and gr
 LIPMAN-Jane D., longtime resident of Chappaqua, NY, died on November 24, 2002. She was 63 years old. Mrs. Lipman was a social worker. She was born on March 17, 1939 in NY, NY to Nathan and Lillian Dretzin. She earned a Master's degree in social work from Columbia University. She will be rem
 LUBIN-Anna. (Milberg). Beloved wife of the late Morris Lubin, died peacefully in her 99th year on November 25th. She is survived by her sons, Mel, Larry and Edward, her daughters-in-law, Sarah, Ellie, and Harriet, eight grandchildren, 19 great-grandchildren and her sisters, Gertrude Kleinma
 MAYO-Sylvia. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the untimely loss of our longtime member Sylvia Mayo. Heartfelt condolences to Alyce and her family. BMP Family Circle Andrew Friedman, President       
 Antonia Stone, a prep-school mathematics teacher who left the classroom after 20 years of teaching and devoted herself to instructing the poor and the imprisoned about the importance of personal computers, died on Thursday at her home in Watertown, Mass. She was 72. Ms. Stone was an
 Harriet Doerr, who at 73 published her first novel, unveiling an exquisite gift to marshal clear, sparse prose to evoke, in her phrase, memories ''like a gentle knife stuck into your heart,'' died on Sunday at her home in Pasadena, Calif. She was 92. She had been in declining health
 HARRISON-Leah E., RN, MSN, CPNP. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of Leah Epstein Harrison, a founder and associate director of the J. E. and Z. B. Butler Child Protection Center of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore. Leah, wh
 LUBIN-Anna. The eight grandchildren and nineteen great-grandchildren of Anna Milberg Lubin wish to acknowledge their sadness at her death. She was the esteemed wife of the late Morris Lubin, our beloved zaidi. We will miss her strong opinions and the love she showed to all of us.       
 Leah Harrison, an expert on child abuse, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 55 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The cause was complications of acute myelogenous leukemia, said her husband, Fred Harrison. In 1988, Mrs. Harrison w
 BAMBERGER - Nina Elias. The Board of Trustees and management of Sesame Workshop notes with deep sadness the death of our beloved friend and colleague Nina Elias Bamberger. She passed away on November 20th. Nina served as a source of inspiration to all who had the privilege of calling her a 
 EHRENPREIS-Selma. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its beloved long-standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her sons and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 HARRISON-Leah. The Montefiore Medical Center Auxiliary notes with deep sorrow the passing of Leah Harrison, a founder and Associate Director of the Child Protection Center at Montefiore. Our condolences and love go to her husband Frederick and sons Bradley and Eric. The Auxiliary of Montefi
 JOYCE-Bridget, 89, formerly of the Bronx, NY, died on November 24, 2002 in Columbia, MD. Beloved wife of the late Mark Joyce and mother of the late Maura Joyce Carney. She is survived by her loving son Festus Joyce of Columbia, MD. Reposing Friday 9 AM to 11 AM at Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21
 KASSEL-Norma. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center record with sorrow the passing of Norma Kassel, wife of our esteemed colleague, the late Jerome Kassel. Her devotion to Long Beach Medical Center for the past 30 years has been constant and we are greatly enriched by this rela
 ROSEMAN-Betty. The National Officers of EMUNAH of America mourn the passing of Betty Roseman, Honarary National President of our organization. She worked tirelessly for EMUNAH's children in Israel. Betty was an outstanding Past President of the Sarah Herzog Chapter. We express our heartfelt
 TODARO-Mary (nee Reid) born Carrickmacross, Ireland. Resident of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Joseph R. Dear mother of Frances Walsh of Jackson Heights and Ellen Ryan of Forest Hills, NY. Loving grandmother of Chriss Ellis, Martin Walsh, Michael S. Ryan, Patrick Ryan and Marye
 BLAUNER-Wendy. Age 91, died peacefully at her home in Palm Beach, Florida, on November 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Milton. She is survived by her son Jon and her daughter-in-law Irma, three grandchildren, Michael, Wendy and Andrew, and six great-grandchildren Joshua, Julia, Molly, Ma
 KAUFMAN-Muriel D. On November 27, 2002. Devoted daughter of the late Herman and Betty Berkson. Sister of the late Irving Berkson. Beloved wife of Joseph. Cherished mother of Lucas and Abigail. Beloved mother-inlaw of Lisa Bachar Kaufman. Adored grandmother of Bailey. A graduate of the Unive
 MALAKOFF-Henrietta. Died Wednesday, two weeks from her 87th birthday. She was known for writing and directing plays and variety shows, first for cub scouts and the PTA, and then later for her Senior Citizen friends. Her humor and kindness infused not only her staged productions, but also he
 Mary Bright, an innovative curtain maker whose work for the Museum of Modern Art, Calvin Klein, Wendi and Rupert Murdoch, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Lauren Bacall and other clients moved the traditional craft of cutting, sewing and pleating curtains to the realm of modern art, died yesterda
 MALAKOFF-Henrietta. Died Wednesday, two weeks from her 87th birthday. She was known for writing and directing plays and variety shows, first for cub scouts and the PTA, and then later for her Senior Citizen friends. Her humor and kindness infused not only her staged productions, but also he
 NEUFELD-Mary M. On November 28, 2002. Loving wife of the late Gerard J, loving mother of Michael and the late Dorothy. Grandmother of Michael. Loved dearly by her ten step children and their spouses: Elayne and Norman Dix, Gerard, Raymond and Vivian, Robert and Anne, Marianne Djordjevic, Ma
 YANNON-Eva. Passed away Wednesday, November 27, 2002, at the age of 95. Wife of the late John J. Yannone. She is survived by her children Loretta Goldworth (Milton), Armand Yannone (Muriel), her loving grandchildren Lori, Ted, Wayne and Lois, and her great - grandchildren Sean, Shelley, Ale
