 Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf. She was 98 and lived in Manhattan.   
 FEINER--Marilyn. Died July 30, 2004, at age 74. Survived by sons Bruce (wife Melanne) and Robert (wife Myong), two grandchildren and a brother Paul Matik (wife Fran). Predeceased by her husband Burton Feiner. For information, Zion Memorial Chapel 914-381-1809.       
 FOGELHUT--Norma, wife of the late Manny, died July 25. She was blessed with loving children Rita & Armand, Vicki & Richard, and Jay, and grandchildren Wendy, Rachel, Amy & Sam. Rest in Peace.       
 LONDON--Robin, LAc. Of Santa Cruz, CA. Loving wife of Larry Gale and beloved daughter of Clara and Oscar London. Devoted sister to Bette and Tom, and to Joel and Amy; adored aunt. Acupuncturist and Doctor of Chinese Medicine. Her gift and passion for healing changed the lives of all she tou
 MORI--Patricia Marguerita, passed away July 24, 2004. Cherished by her son Richard K. Bienen, grandchildren Isabelle and Ruby and sisters Pamela, Dina and Linda. Patricia was renowned in the fashion world as a high fashion model and longtime assistant to Halston. She will be deeply missed b
 SHERMAN -- Beatrice (nee Meyers). Wife of the late Arthur Sherman. Mother of Maury and Stephen Sherman. She was a woman ahead of her times who will be missed.       
 VAN BRUNT--Mary Harrsen on July 30, 2004, in her 90th year. Formerly of Essex Fells, NJ, she was a resident of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ. She was the widow of Arthur H. Van Brunt, Jr. and leaves her children Carol V. Rasic and Arthur H. Van Brunt, III and grandchildren Timothy Rasic, Car
 WOOLF--Ruth G., 87, of Hamden, CT, (formerly of White Plains, NY) on July 24, 2004 after a long illness. Graduate of Fieldston School. Loving wife of the late Robert S. for 58 years. She was a past president of White Plains PTA council, White Plains Council of Community Services, White Plai
 Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan. She was 95. A longtime resident of New Y
 BUND--Phyllis, 80. Her family remembers this spirited, intelligent, good woman and keeper of family tales, who sadly experienced a difficult last part of her life. She had so much to give and to share. She was a devoted daughter of her late parents Samuel and Beatrice Gottesman, a caring si
 JACKSON--Helen A. Widow of Paul E. Jackson of Tuxedo Park, NY, died peacefully on July 30, 2004. She is survived by a son Nathaniel A. Jackson of Tuxedo Park, a daughter Elisabeth J. Amory of Charleston, SC, and was predeceased by another daughter Constance E. Jackson. She is also survived 
 LANE--Carol Feit, Ph.D. 70, died on August 1, of breast cancer at the NYU Medical Center. We depely mourn her loss. She is the beloved daughter of Belle Harmon, sister of James A. Harmon, wife of Frederick M. Lane, mother of Wendy and Laurie, loving Nana of Rachel and Brad, Grandma Carol to
 LEE--Amy Freeman. Beloved artist, teacher and humanitarian, passed away peacefully in the company of loving friends in San Antonio, Texas on July 20, 2004. She was 89. Dr. Lee's profound reverence for life was the guiding principle in her distinguished career as artist, educator and humanit
 SAAD -- Shahnaz ''Chris,'' Ph.D. Died July 31 from complications of scleroderma. Cherished daughter of Dr. Mayer and Samira Saad. Trusted sister of Dr. Andre Saad. Loving aunt of Layla. Educated at Smith College, she completed her doctoral studies with distinction at the University of Penns
 BLUM--Syma. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of our member, Mrs. Brauna Fortgang. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph Kaplan, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 JACKSON--Helen A. Widow of Paul E. Jackson of Tuxedo Park, NY, died peacefully on July 30, 2004. She is survived by a son Nathaniel A. Jackson of Tuxedo Park, a daughter Elisabeth J. Amory of Charleston, SC, and was predeceased by another daughter Constance E. Jackson. She is also survived 
 LANE--Carol Feit, Ph.D. 70, died on August 1, of breast cancer at the NYU Medical Center. We depely mourn her loss. She is the beloved daughter of Belle Harmon, sister of James A. Harmon, wife of Frederick M. Lane, mother of Wendy and Laurie, loving Nana of Rachel and Brad, Grandma Carol to
 PALUMBO--Lizabeth L., on July 28, 2004. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted mother of Scott. Loved and admired by all who knew her for her infinite wisdom, beauty and strength. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, August 3rd, 2004, 10:30 AM, at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Ave. at 66th St. 
 SAAD -- Shahnaz ''Chris,'' Ph.D. Died July 31 from complications of scleroderma. Cherished daughter of Dr. Mayer and Samira Saad. Trusted sister of Dr. Andre Saad. Loving aunt of Layla. Educated at Smith College, she completed her doctoral studies with distinction at the University of Penns
 GRIMBERG -- Anna M. (Burns). ''Gigi'', age 89, died Monday, August 2, 2004 in her home in Bethesda, MD. Born August 15, 1914 in New York City. She was the daughter of Michael and Bridget Burns. Beloved wife of the late John C. Grimberg, sister of Agnes Garrity of Bethesda, MD; and the late 
 McDUFFIE--Francina. Died on August 1 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Longtime employee of The New York Times newsroom; served as assistant to foreign editor, managing editor and executive editor. Survived by her son, Akil Thomas; daughter, Russina McDuffie; daughterin-law, T
 NICOLOSI--Gloria. The Board of Trustees and Auxiliary of Long Beach Medical Center record with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and President of the Auxiliary, Gloria Nicolosi. For more than 27 years she served this medical center and the patients in our care with digni
 WALDMAN--Marcella. Artist. She died July 29 in Miami Beach, age 90. Wife of the late Seymour. Survived by son Mark and daughter Jane. Beloved by all who knew her.       
 Gloria Emerson, a journalist and author who wrote with angry dignity about the effects of war on Americans, Vietnamese and Palestinians, was found dead by friends and the police yesterday morning in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 75 and left no immediate survivors. The medical 
 ABRAMS--Lydia. The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club Inc. record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Friday, July 30th. We extend condolences to all of her family. Services will be held Friday, August 6 at 12:30 P.M. at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, 58
 BOYLE--Sheila, 84, of Garden City, NY on August 3, 2004. Beloved daughter of Catherine and Arthur Fox, sister of Helen Haden, Kate Hart, and Jack Fox. Beloved wife of William J. Boyle. Deeply loved mother of Bill, Arthur, Virginia, Joseph, John, Therese, Tim, and Patricia. Beloved grandmoth
 GLICK--Sara (Sue), daughter of Aaron and Gertrude Holtzman; mother of Karen Glick, Cynthia Worby, Elisa Aueron, Julie Glick and Lauren Good; grandmother of Jess, Rebecca, Sam, Michael, Alexander, Marina, and Aurora; sister of Lynne Nierenberg, Mikey Lustberg and Candy Holtzman on August 3. 
 GREEN--Irene Wouk. On August 4, 2004 in Norwalk, CT. Predeceased by her husband, Dr. H. Howard Green, she is survived by her three sons, Dr. Neil (Lesley) Green, Dr. Alan (Frances) Green, Dr. Mark (Judith) Green, six grandchildren Bruce (Lynn) Green, Lisa Green (Charles) Brock, Hillary Gree
 HERSHFIELD--Ella. Beloved wife of George. Cherished mother of Susan and Mark Mingelgreen. Devoted grandmother of Jason, Cory and Lindsey. Beloved sister of Phyllis Levine. Cherished aunt. Also survived by her beloved caretaker, Pamela Guerra. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 1450 B'way, Hew
 LEE--Hannah M. We are devastated by the sudden death of our beloved Hannah Lee, age eleven, of Madison, Conn. She brightened the lives of all who knew her. Carol and Ralph and Jody Perlberger Jilly and Mark Hollmann       
 LEFF--Fredda Smith, 50, of Livingston, NJ, on August 4th. Beloved wife of Bruce. Devoted mother of Matthew and Fara. Dearest daughter of Marilyn and Charles Smith. Loving sister of Suanne Strauss and Sandra Ziv. Services 12 Noon Friday at Bernheim Apter Kreitzman, Livingston, NJ. Contributi
 LEWIS -- Estelle (Gottlieb). Died August 3, 2004. Born in Brooklyn in 1905, in her late teens and early twenties, she performed in Broadway musicals. She married the late Joseph Lewis, residing in Philadelphia until her passing at age 99. She had one child, the late Bernard (Buddy). She lea
 PERONI -- Geraldine. We deeply mourn the loss of our friend. Gerri brought her passion to her work, her friends, and her politics. A brilliant film editor, a wise, sensitive and generous friend, and a devoted sister, aunt, and cousin, Gerri was a woman of great style, love, and fierce loyal
 SHAW--Ruth Rymer age 45 of Manhattan, died Saturday July 31, 2004 in Hampton Twp., NJ. Graduate of Univ. of NC, and Graduate of the New York University receiving her Masters in Social Work. Employed as Social Worker with N.A.D.A.P. in Brooklyn, NY. Loving Life Partner of Amy Schecter. Carin
 SILVERMAN--Harriet Schacter, 78, of Rye Brook, N.Y., died on August 3, 2004 of cancer. Beloved wife of Harry, widow of the late Philip, mother of Daniel, Kenneth and Jane Schacter, grandmother of Sarah, Brian, Hannah, Emily, Gabriel and Zoe, sister of Sheldon Flanzig and good friend of many
 WOUDHUYSEN--Sara G. Her family in Holland and her friends in Canada and New York, are saddened to announce the death of Sara Woudhuysen, on August 3, 2004. Sara was 97 and, until her blindness nine years ago, was an active resident of Manhattan's Upper West Side, a concert goer, and a volun
 EMERSON -- Gloria. The Board and staff of the Committee to Protect Journalists mourn the passing of Gloria Emerson. She played an active and important role in helpng establish CPJ as an advocate for global press freedom.       
 FEDER--Geraldine, passed away at age 97 at her home in New York on July 19, 2004. A violin student of Leopold Auer, she concertized under the name ''Gere Cotna'' and made solo appearances with Eugene Ormandy and Ernest Ansermet. Mrs. Feder was the widow of Edgard Feder, who predeceased her 
 PRIESTLEY--Justine Tyrrell Smadbeck. We mourn the passing of Justine Priestley. Her devotion to the welfare of children and to the dignity of all people inspired all who were privileged to know her. Our condolences to her husband Bob and to her children Arthur, Louis, David and Paul Smadbec
 RUDO--Dorothy. Her passing is mourned by many both here and in Europe.       
 Virginia Grey, who made her film debut in 1927 at the age of 10 as Little Eva in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and acted almost continuously in movies and television for the next five decades, died on July 31 in Los Angeles. She was 87. Her death was announced by Jennifer Fagen of the publi
 Geraldine Peroni, an Academy Award-nominated film editor known for her work with Robert Altman, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan, said her sister, Pamela O'Grady. She was 51. The New York City medical examiner's office ruled the death a suicide, but Ms. Peroni's family is di
 FREILICH--Ella. On August 6, 2004 in Riverdale, NY, in her 87th year. Wife of the late Rabbi Samuel Freilich, mother of Hadassah Freilich Lieberman and Ary Freilich, grandmother of Ethan Tucker, Hana, Matthew, April and Rebecca Lieberman and Sarah and Elizabeth Freilich, great-grandmother o
 GROPPER--Mollie, on August 6, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Loving mother of Bob, Flo and Ellen Gropper Rhoden. Cherished grandmother of Halona, Aaron, Rebecca. Devoted companion Dr. Emanuel Feldman. Services Sunday, 11:30 AM, Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels (Queens Blvd. & 76
 PRIESTLEY--Justine Tyrrell Smadbeck. We mourn the passing of Justine Priestley. Her devotion to the welfare of children and to the dignity of all people inspired all who were privileged to know her. Our condolences to her husband Bob and to her children Arthur, Louis, David and Paul Smadbec
 TULIN--Jean. Beloved wife of Marshall. Loving mother of Kathryn, John and James. Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth, Alex, Victor, Christine, James, Alex and Christopher. Dear sister of Carol Hirsch. She will be missed by all. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'', 1450 B'way, Hewlett, LI, 10:30 
 BARTLETT -- Constance ''Connie'' N., age 82, of NY died August 4, 2004. Connie was born in MI. She married William Bartlett and is survived by her son Karl Bartlett of Mass. Visitation is August 11, 2004, 4-8 PM and August 12, 2004, 10-11AM. Funeral service will be August 12, 2004 at 11AM a
 BERGIDA--Edythe G. Passed away peacefully on August 7, 2004 at age 96. She was born to Dr. Solomon and Anna Gross. Edythe was predeceased by Lester Freirich and Malcolm Bergida. Surviving are her beloved son Peter Freirich and daughter-in-law Zeva. Grandmother to Bonnie, Lawrence (Barbara),
 BERRY--Mary Ann. 82, died in her home on East 56th Street August 5th. She was born in Hoboken, NJ, on August 24, 1922, to James and Katherine (Jenne) Fowler into a family of four girls and one boy. She attended public schools in Hoboken. Mary Berry worked in New York City for 32 years at Wi
 BRITTENHAM -- Mary Ann Stanard. Passed away peacefully on Sunday, August 1, 2004. Born 1923, devoted wife of Raymond Lee Brittenham who predeceased her in November, 2003. She was the embodiment of love and a lifelong inspiration to all who knew her. Her two children, Carol and Edward, their
 BURNHAM--Jeanne Willard, 98, formerly of New York City and Glendale, CA, died August 6, 2004. She was the widow of William Burnham. She was born in Waltham, MA on August 21, 1905 to George Bartlett Willard and Alice Maude Barton. Her life revolved around history, genealogy and books and in 
 FREILICH--Ella. On August 6, 2004 in Riverdale, NY, in her 87th year. Wife of the late Rabbi Samuel Freilich, mother of Hadassah Freilich Lieberman and Ary Freilich, grandmother of Ethan Tucker, Hana, Matthew, April and Rebecca Lieberman and Sarah and Elizabeth Freilich, great-grandmother o
 GILL--Madeleine Henriette. Of Water Mill, NY, and Staten Island, NY, on August 7, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Austin Gill. Loving mother of Helene A. Demisay. Dear mother-in-law of Nicholas Demisay. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Peter and Bernadette Demisay and greatgrandmother of Mi
 KATZ--Dolores (Krant). At home in New York City on August 5, 2004. Beloved wife of Bernard, mother of Marian Katz of LA and James Katz of NYC, and sister of Dr. Melvin Krant of Brookline, MA. A social worker in the NYC public school system until her retirement in June 2003, she impressed th
 MURRAY -- Dorothy (nee Stephan). On Tuesday, August 3, 2004. Beloved sister of Frank Stephan and the late Louise Howe and Bertha Ferguson. Also survived by ten loving nieces and nephews, 19 great-nieces and nephews, 24 great-great-nieces and nephews and several friends. Ms. Murray was a res
 PALMER--Nancie B. Aged 86, has died peacefully in Ridgewood, NJ, on August 2nd. Born Nancie Harriet Brown on October 12, 1917, in Milwaukee, WI, she was the daughter of Victor L. Brown and Harriet Z. Brown, longterm residents of Milwaukee. Her father Victor, an immigrant from Denmark, gradu
 PHILLIPS--Catherine Sachs (Turner), 87, on August 2, 2004. Survived by children David, Barbara, Cary, and Laurence Turner and by seven grandchildren. Unstinting devotion to family, energy, and a positive attitude were hallmarks of her life.       
 PRIESTLEY--Justine Tyrrell Smadbeck. We mourn the passing of Justine Priestley. Her devotion to the welfare of children and to the dignity of all people inspired all who were privileged to know her. Our condolences to her husband Bob and to her children Arthur, Louis, David and Paul Smadbec
 TULIN--Jean. Beloved wife of Marshall. Loving mother of Kathryn (Victor), John (Wendy), and James (Meryl). Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth, Alex, Victor, Christine, James, Alex and Christopher. Dear sister of Carol Hirsch. Beloved friend of many. She will be missed by all. Services ''Bou
 WEINREB -- Stephanie Pat. Died on August 6, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Donald. Devoted mother of Alan and Vickie Weinreb and Michael and Sharon Weinreb. Cherished grandmother of Jessica, Lindsay, Jacqueline, Matthew, Jason and Ross. Loving sister of Marilyn Wilk. Also loved by her grand
 WIDES--Ruth. August 10, 2001. Remembered for her love, beauty and sage counsel. She is deeply missed       
 FREILICH--Ella. On August 6, 2004 in Riverdale, NY, in her 87th year. Wife of the late Rabbi Samuel Freilich, mother of Hadassah Freilich Lieberman and Ary Freilich, grandmother of Ethan Tucker, Hana, Matthew, April and Rebecca Lieberman and Sarah and Elizabeth Freilich, great-grandmother o
 HALLMAN -- Dorothy Ann (nee Bridwell). 44, of Brewster, NY, on August 6, 2004, at her home from complications of ovarian cancer and a recent stroke. Ms. Hallman co-led the Challenge Program in the Bedford Central School District, NY, since 1994. In addition, she was a choreographer, dancer 
 KOCH--Peggy (Edelstein). 70, on August 7, 2004, after a heroic battle with cancer. Devoted mother of Rabbi Jacqueline Koch Ellenson (Rabbi David), Daniel (Nicole), Robert, and Sharon (Francois). Adoring grandmother of Hannah, Naomi, Raphael, Ruthie (Robert), Micah, Charles and Charlotte. Si
 RAND--Shirley. Died peacefully on August 1, 2004. She was the mother of Larry and Ricky, grandmother to Allan, Joshua, Emily, Darren and Barry, great-grandmother to Meredith and Samantha.       
 TISCHLER--Elsie. On August 7. Beloved wife of Richard. Loving mother of Steven (Barbara) and Janet (Ed) O'Brien. Cherished grandmother of Ben and Daniel Tischler and Owen and Josh O'Brien. Devoted sister of the late Helen (Paul) Goodman. She was a generous, caring advocate for those in need
 Fay Wray, an actress who appeared in about 100 movies but whose fame is inextricably linked with the hours she spent struggling, helplessly screaming, in the eight-foot hand of King Kong, died on Sunday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 96. Rick McKay, a director and her friend
 HAWKINS--Priscilla Finn, of Bronxville, NY, on August 8th, after a mercifully brief battle with lung cancer. Wife of Frederic Hyde Hawkins, mother of Elizabeth Sokmensuer of Bronxville, Cynthia Guarino of Berlin, Germany, and Faith Kirkham Hawkins of Decatur, GA; mother-in-law of Hakan Sokm
 KOCH--Peggy (Edelstein). 70, on August 7, 2004, after a heroic battle with cancer. Devoted mother of Rabbi Jacqueline Koch Ellenson (Rabbi David), Daniel (Nicole), Robert, and Sharon (Francois). Adoring grandmother of Hannah, Naomi, Raphael, Ruthie (Robert), Micah, Charles and Charlotte. Si
 TULIN--Jean. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and long-time member, Jean Tulin. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 THE ''puppet'' scuttlebutt -- that her latest career move has strings attached and that she's not the person pulling them -- rankles Louise Mirrer. Hence that furrow in the brow of the otherwise self-possessed president of the New-York Historical Society, who is inaugurating her tenure with
 BRANT--Lorraine, 1927-2004. Beloved wife of the late S. Jack Brant, Esq. Devoted mother of Stacy Ellen Brant & Dr. Marvin Feinstein. Born in NYC to Molly and Saul Mandeltort, she was active in many civic and Democratic groups in Queens. She will be missed by all who knew her. In lieu of flo
 BUSH--Helen Stokes Merrill. Peacefully, after a brief illness, in her ninety-ninth year. Daughter of I.N. Phelps Stokes, widow of Edwin K. Merrill and Donald F. Bush. Mother of Edith M. Smart, the late Edwin K. Merrill, Jr., Penelope M. Brouder and Newton P.S. Merrill. Survived by numerous 
 HERCZ--Victoria. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Victoria, wife of our esteemed member, Andre, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President       
 LERMAN--Anne Matathia. Died peacefully at her home in Florida, at the age of 85. Beloved wife of the late Irving ''Lefty'' Lerman. Loving mother to Ilene Shotland and Sheldon Willer, and Sidney and Carole Lerman. Devoted grandmother to Michael, Steven, Michelle and Jeffrey, Michelle and Bil
 MOOR--Pauline M. On August 6th, 2004 at age 95. Daughter of the late David Moor, who was the Minister of the Trinitarian Congregation Church, Northfield MA and Lena Whitford Moor. Dear friend to many at The Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, August 
 MURDOCK--Frances Nicholas of Saranac Lake, NY died August 9, 2004 at home of heart failure. Born May 22, 1956, Frances is the daughter of Mrs. Lewis C. Murdock and the late Mr. Murdock. She is survived also by her sisters Pamela H. and Catherine C. Memorial service at 12:30PM on Friday Augu
 BUSH--Helen Stokes Merrill. Peacefully, after a brief illness, in her ninety-ninth year. Daughter of I.N. Phelps Stokes, widow of Edwin K. Merrill and Donald F. Bush. Mother of Edith M. Smart, the late Edwin K. Merrill, Jr., Penelope M. Brouder and Newton P.S. Merrill. Survived by numerous 
 FITZGERALD -- Celia. Died peacefully surrounded by family and friends on Tuesday, August 10, 2004 after a long and heroic battle with cancer. Celia was born in Cork, Ireland on November 22, 1941. She immigrated to New York in October, 1969. Celia was instrumental in the development and expa
 HERCZ--Victoria. Survived by her loving husband Andre; her devoted daughters Evelyn Paltrow, Theresa (Mark) Greene, Ilana (Dr. Jeffrey) Kessler, and Kathryn (Edward) Lapidus; her adoring grandchildren Marlene, Elysse (Nicholas), Rebekah, the late Keith, Tiffany (Evan), Jennifer (Jordan), Ki
 MURDOCK--Frances Nicholas of Saranac Lake, NY died August 8, 2004 at home of heart failure. Born May 22, 1956, Frances is the daughter of Mrs. Lewis C. Murdock and the late Mr. Murdock. She is survived also by her sisters Pamela H. and Catherine C. Memorial service at 12:30PM on Friday Augu
 SILBER--Madelyn, 92, beloved wife of Cecil, devoted mother of Carole and Jimmy, loving sister of Burt and Jerry. May she always be joined hand in hand with Cecil forever. Graveside ceremony Mount Ararat Cemetery, today August 12th, 12:30PM.       
 STORCH -- Dorothy. Died peacefully August 9th, 2004 on her daughter's birthday. She was 87 years of age. Devoted wife of Irving Storch, loving sister of Erwin Weiner and Morton Weiner. Cherished mother of Johanna Storch Deneroff, and Eric Andrew and Eileen Storch. Beloved grandmother to Iva
 Leslie Revsin, a culinary trailblazer who achieved celebrity early in her career as the first woman to work as a chef in the kitchen of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York, died on Monday at her home in Shoreline, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. She was 59. The cause was ovarian cance
 BRAUN--Miriam. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnes       
 FITZGERALD -- Celia. Died peacefully surrounded by family and friends on Tuesday, August 10, 2004 after a long and heroic battle with cancer. Celia was born in Cork, Ireland on November 22, 1941. She immigrated to New York in October, 1969. Celia was instrumental in the development and expa
 MURDOCK--Frances Nicholas of Saranac Lake, NY died August 8, 2004 at home of heart failure. Born May 22, 1956, Frances is the daughter of Mrs. Lewis C. Murdock and the late Mr. Murdock. She is survived also by her sisters Pamela H. and Catherine C. Memorial service at 12:30PM on Friday Augu
 ROSS--Lois. A resident of Westport, CT for over 18 years, died peacefully in her sleep at her home on August 10, 2004, after a long and difficult struggle with lupus. She was 62 years of age. A former spokesperson for Kodak in their National Campaign on Family Portrait Photography during th
 STORCH -- Dorothy. Died peacefully August 9th, 2004 on her daughter's birthday. She was 87 years of age. Devoted wife of Irving Storch, loving sister of Erwin Weiner and Morton Weiner. Cherished mother of Johanna Storch Deneroff, and Eric Andrew and Eileen Storch. Beloved grandmother to Iva
 WOLINETZ--Edith. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Leonard Wolinetz, Harvey Wolinetz, Brenda Schlanger, grandchildren and great grandchildren on the passing of their beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. She served as an exemplary role model to everyone around her in
 Julia Child, who turned the art of French cooking into prime-time television entertainment and brought cassoulet to a casserole culture in the two volumes of her monumental ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' died yesterday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif., two days before her 92nd
 CHILD--Julia. The staff of Parade magazine mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. Julia Child, one of America's best loved chefs, was a television icon, a cookbook author, and food editor of Parade from 1982 to 1986. Her column, ''From Julia Child's Kitchen,'' gave Americans an extra do
 HOFFMANN--Mary B. (nee Byrne), 76, Somers, NY, August 13. She is survived by her husband H. Ross O'Sullivan and children Mary Byrne Hoffmann, Jean Ward, Laura Hoffmann, Heather Mullally, Chris Hoffmann, Eileen Shaw, Beth Porell and Joan Thompson, her sisters, Sr. Eileen Byrne, O.P., Joan Mu
 KING--May Tarlton ''Topsy'' Dougherty, 90, passed away at her home on Monday, August 9, 2004. She was born December 30, 1913, in Austin, Texas to James R. and Genevieve Dougherty. Mrs. King attended the Hockaday School in Dallas and later the University of Texas in Austin. Mrs. King was pre
 KRAMER--Sylvia (Hameroff). Age 90, on August 12, 2004. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted mother of Morris and Stephen and mother-in-law of Pearl. Loving grandmother of Jeremy, Liza, Oliver and Joseph and sister of Gerald and the late Henrietta. She was loved and will be missed by al
 ROCHE--Mary Alice. On July 29, 2004 in Caldwell, NJ. Born in Ohio in 1917, Ms. Roche moved to Caldwell in 1945 where she opened a horticultural photography studio with her husband. In 1971 she helped establish the Sensory Awareness Foundation and served as Managing Secretary and Editor of i
 CHILD--Julia. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, Staff and Volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW21, we note with great sadness the passing of Julia Child-a remarkable woman who revolutionized cooking, and pioneered one of public television's
 CYMROT--Joan. On her birthday, August 13, 2004. Wife, best friend and doll of her beloved husband Sheldon. Adored mother of Lori, Larry, Andy and Tiffany. Devoted grandmother to the lights of her life, Max, Sam, Jordan and Kelsey.       
 GRIMM--Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Charles H. Grimm, loving mother of Donald J. Grimm, cherished sister of Muriel G. Joseph, devoted aunt of Andrew M. and Terry Joseph, adored cousin and friend. Ruth passed away peacefully on August 7 at 90. She had a wonderful life and was an inspiratio
 KRAMER--Sylvia. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Sylvia Kramer, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, National Pres.       
 PIERREPONT--Nancy Weller. Died peacefully at home on August 13 after a brief illness. She leaves three children, Nancy Hoppin of NYC, Peggy Pierrepont of Natchez and Jay Pierrepont of San Francisco, three grandchildren and many devoted friends. She was a talented interior decorator who crea
 ROCHE--Mary Alice. On July 29, 2004 in Caldwell, NJ. Born in Ohio in 1917, Ms. Roche moved to Caldwell in 1945 where she opened a horticultural photography studio with her husband. In 1971 she helped establish the Sensory Awareness Foundation and served as Managing Secretary and Editor of i
 ROSS--Lois. A resident of Westport, CT for over 18 years, died peacefully in her sleep at her home on August 10, 2004, after a long and difficult struggle with lupus. She was 62 years of age. A former spokesperson for Kodak in their National Campaign on Family Portrait Photography during th
 SNYDER--Jacqueline P. August 2, 2004 in Whispering Pines, NC. Our friend Jackie had beauty, humor, and intelligence. A direct descendant of New York early Dutch settlers, New York was where her heart was. A New York debutante in 1947, in 1952 she married our late friend Ralph Snyder M.D. wh
 ZAHN--Hilda. Of Great Neck, NY, died peacefully at home August 13 after a long and courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Survived by her loving husband of 56 years, Leonard; daughters Claudia Zahn of Seattle (and Manhattan) and Dr. Laura Rosenthal, Malibu, CA; son-in-law Walter Rosenthal a
 DAKSS--Rose Ludmer. We note with great saddness the passing of Rose Ludmer Dakss on August 14, 2004. In her 94 years, she enriched the lives of everyone who knew her. A unique woman and a life long learner, she received her Bachelor of Arts in 1930 and her Master of Science in Education in 
 GRECO--Marie P. On August 14, 2004. Beloved wife of 53 years of the late Louis V., Sr. Devoted mother of Luanne Mannix, Joseph Louis Jr., the late Mary, Thomas and Gloria. Also survived by ten grandchildren, three greatgrandchildren. A woman of great wisdom and strength who made everyone in
 GREENE--Louise. Died August 15 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Arthur, loving mother of Michael and Sheila, grandmother of Julia, Daniel and Melissa. Loving aunt, loyal friend and retired teacher. She gave freely to all who knew her and will be deeply missed. Services Tuesday, August 
 HENICK--Nita H. 79, died on August 14 after a courageous six year fight against cancer. ''It was a second honeymoon,'' said her beloved husband of 55 years, William, referring to the nonstop schedule of family visits, world travel, the theater, the opera and visits with friends. She will be
 KASINDORF--Stella. Age 77, on August 13, 2004 in Norwalk, CT, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Ira Kasindorf, mother of Barry and Mark Kasindorf, grandmother of Alan and Evan Kasindorf, sister of Martin Sobelman and Mickey Tolkov. Her warm smile and bright intelligence enriched all who
 PIERREPONT--Nancy Weller. Died peacefully at home on August 13 after a brief illness. She leaves three children, Nancy Hoppin of NYC, Peggy Pierrepont of Natchez and Jay Pierrepont of San Francisco, three grandchildren and many devoted friends. She was a talented interior decorator who crea
 ROSEN--Helen A. (Sullivan). 82 formerly of Lawrence, NY, on August 14, 2004. Helen was born in Rockaway Beach on November 23, 1921, to Thomas and Mary Sullivan. Helen married her childhood sweetheart, Sidney Rosen, who passed away in 1973. Beloved mother of Joanne (Charles) Dambrose, Susan 
 ROSENTHAL--Selma. On August 13, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and Stacey. Loving sister of Estelle. Adored grandmother of David, Aidan and Grace. Chapel services at Schwartz Bros. Forest Park Chapel, Queens Boulevard, 12 noon on Monday, August 16. We will 
 SMOLEV--Shirley D. of Boca Raton, FL. Passed away August 13, 2004. Formerly of Valley Stream. Loving wife of the late Lawrence to whom she was married 44 years. Adored mother of Terence (Phyllis) Smolev, Marsha (Herb Putnam) Smolev and Beth (Michael) Gellar. Cherished grandmother of Cindy (
 WILLSON--Gayle. Remembered for her elegance and endearing charm. Liz Gribin       
 ZAHN--Hilda. Of Great Neck, NY, died peacefully at home August 13 after a long and courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Survived by her loving husband of 56 years, Leonard; daughters Claudia Zahn of Seattle (and Manhattan) and Dr. Laura Rosenthal, Malibu, CA; son-in-law Walter Rosenthal a
 CONDON--Madeleine Montabert, 82, passed away at her home on Martha's Vineyard August 12 after a long illness. Mrs. Condon spent her childhood years in Geneva, Switzerland, and came to this country at age 16, not knowing a word of English. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1943 and
 EGAN--Jean Lynn, 75, of Melrose Circle, Tryon, NC, an artist and former resident of Greenwich Village, died on August 15, 2004 in St. Luke's Hospital, Columbus, NC. She was the wife of Cy Egan and mother of Patricia and Philip D'Arbanville, and grandmother of Jesse Wayne Johnson and Emmelyn
 FEINSTEIN -- Beatrice, nee Aron, beloved wife of the late Louis and mother of Joan, passed away on August 14 at the age of 92. She will be missed by her nieces and nephews, friends and companions, for her generosity and elegance of mind. Service to be held at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinela
 GRECO--Marie P. On August 14, 2004. Beloved wife of 53 years of the late Louis V., Sr. Devoted mother of Luanne Mannix, Joseph Louis Jr., the late Mary, Thomas and Gloria. Also survived by ten grandchildren, three greatgrandchildren. A woman of great wisdom and strength who made everyone in
 HENICK--Nita H. 79, died on August 14 after a courageous six year fight against cancer. ''It was a second honeymoon,'' said her beloved husband of 55 years, William, referring to the nonstop schedule of family visits, world travel, the theater, the opera and visits with friends. She will be
 HOMRIGHAUSEN -- Lindsley. On August 10, age 58, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Lindsley was the daughter of Robert B. Harvey and Joan Blackman Harvey Miner, and the step-daughter of Charles H. Miner, Jr., all of Kingston, PA. A graduate of Lake Erie College, Mrs. Homrighaus
 MacKENTY -- Katharine Walker. Died peacefully on August 15, 2004 in her 100th year. She was the oldest daughter of the late Roberts Walker and Edna Morse Walker Jackson and the last survivor of their 5 daughters. She is survived by her children, John E. MacKenty of Edgartown, MA, Katharine 
 OKEN--Ethel (nee Greenstein). Of Boynton Beach, FL., formerly of Bayside and Glen Head, N.Y., died August 15, 2004 at age 81. She was born in The Bronx, graduated from NYU, and received her Master's degree from Columbia University. She was a long-time teacher and chair of Health and Physica
 PUTTERMAN--Pearl. 96, died August 15th. Wife of the late Isaac; mother of Arnold and Susan Putterman; Judy Lewis (Stan); David and Laurie Putterman. Grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Jonathan, Jordan, Tobi and Eric. Greatgrandmother of Abigail, Isaac, Sydney and Oliver. Sister of Leah Janus a
 SOLOMON--Susan. On August 15, 2004 after a brief illness. Beloved daughter of Max and the late Doris. Loving sister of Steven and the late Cindy. Dear sister-in-law of Bess Miller and cherished aunt of David and Matthew. Services Wednesday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam 
 AARON--Dorothy T. (Sacco) Died on August 16, 2004. Survived by her husband Larry and daughter Toni (Paul) Lubetsky. Memorial service 6:00 P.M. Friday Mt. Kisco Presbyterian Church.       
 CHAPMAN--Carolyn. 61, died at her home, Bellport, LI, NY, on August 12, 2004. She will be greatly missed and deeply mourned by her colleagues in the Department of Biology of Suffolk County Community College, Selden, NY, of which she had been a member since 1971. Professor Chapman was a dedi
 GRAHAM--Jean Pascoe. 72, died at home in Panama City, FL. She lived in New York City for many years writing for Medical Economics, and retired as senior editor of Woman's Day.       
 MacKENTY -- Katharine Walker. Died peacefully on August 15, 2004 in her 100th year. She was the oldest daughter of the late Roberts Walker and Edna Morse Walker Jackson and the last survivor of their 5 daughters. She is survived by her children, John E. MacKenty of Edgartown, MA, Katharine 
 PUTTERMAN--Pearl. 96, died August 15th. Wife of the late Isaac; mother of Arnold and Susan Putterman; Judy Lewis (Stan); David and Laurie Putterman. Grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Jonathan, Jordan, Tobi and Eric. Greatgrandmother of Abigail, Isaac, Sydney and Oliver. Sister of Leah Janus a
 SOLOMON--Susan. On August 15, 2004 after a brief illness. Beloved daughter of Max and the late Doris. Loving sister of Steven and the late Cindy. Dear sister-in-law of Bess Miller and cherished aunt of David and Matthew. Services Wednesday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam 
 WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. We have lost our precious youngest child. God gave her to us for a very short, beautiful, passionate six years. Now she has returned to heaven. We are grateful for our loving times together. Donations in Sylvia's memory may be sent to the Abraham Joshua H
 WHITE--Marjorie Powers. 79, of NYC, at Heron Island, ME, died August 8th, 2004. Married to Willard D. White Jr., mother of Shawn, Stephen, Catherine and Nicholas White, and grandmother of Zoe Frederick and Nicholas Jr., Katie and Patrick White. She was the daughter of Frank T. Powers Sr. an
 WILLIAMS--Velma Cinderella. Passed to a higher place on August 15, 2004, the Feast of the Assumption. Born May 8, 1914 she lived a life of joy, strength and wisdom until the end. Beloved mother, she is survived by her daughter, Janet Hoo, and son, Christopher Kelly, who will always love and
 ZIMET--Jaye Marcy. Born July 13, 1961. Died suddenly August 16, 2004. Age 43 years. Beloved partner of Stephanie Schwartz; survived also by her parents, Charlotte and Mack Zimet, brother Lee Geoffrey Zimet, sister-in-law Rozanne Sullivan, dear inlaws Carole and Malcolm Schwartz, and many de
 ALLPORT--Jane Raible. Of New York City and Southport, CT., passed away July 13, 2004. Born in 1923, she is survived by her children Christopher (Susan), Catherine, Susan (David), her sister Joan von Koschembahr and her companion, Joseph Thorndike. She delighted in her grandchildren Andrew, 
 BIRD--Ruth Caroline (nee Clark). Loving wife to the late James R. Bird and devoted mother to Ray Bird and his wife, Anita. She passed away after a long illness in Point Pleasant, NJ, on Monday, August 16, 2004. A longtime resident of Plainfield and Bay Head, NJ, she was a devout parishioner
 BUTLER--Margaret Kiley, 92, of Whiting, NJ, died Tuesday, August 17 at the Keswick Pines Lifecare in Whiting. She was born in Peabody, MA and resided in Brooklyn, NY and Waldwick, NJ, before moving to Whiting six years ago. She was a registered nurse. Mrs. Butler was the beloved wife of the
 CRUIKSHANK--Marianne, of New York, NY, died peacefully in her sleep after a battle with pancreatic cancer on Tuesday, August 17, 2004. Devoted mother to son Doug (Lisa), daughter Christina and loving grandmother of Lindsey and Robbie. Widow of Robert L. Cruikshank, who was killed in the Wor
 FOGELMAN -- Stella. The Trustees and community of New School University mourn the passing of Stella Fogelman, a long-time student and supporter of the New School. Stella Fogelman first came to the New School as an adult student in 1920one year after its foundingand continued as a student he
 LESLIE--Georgie Burke of Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, CA on August 18, after a mercifully short battle with brain cancer. Wife of the late William Leslie, she is survived by her children Meredith Leslie Welch of Riverside, CT, Karen Leslie McKay of Reno, NV, William Leslie III of Lake Bluff,
 TAMBURO--Valerie J., 45, died Wednesday, August 18 in Princeton, NJ. Survived by her parents Lester S. and Margaret Kozma, her husband Peter M., four children Hadley, Logan, Peyton, Kiley; a brother Lester Jr. Mass will be celebrated Saturday 9:30AM at St. Paul's Church, Princeton. Calling 
 WACHSBERGER--Sylvia. It is with a heavy heart that the Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the tragic death of our dear Sylvia Wachsberger, age 6. To her parents, Liz Neumark, Chaim Wachsberger, as well as to her siblings, our dear students, Sam, Kaitlin, and Nell, our hearts go 
 WHITE--Marjorie Powers. 79, of NYC, at Heron Island, ME, died August 8th, 2004. Married to Willard D. White Jr., mother of Shawn, Stephen, Catherine and Nicholas White, and grandmother of Zoe Frederick and Nicholas Jr., Katie and Patrick White. She was the daughter of Frank T. Powers Sr. an
 ALLPORT--Jane Raible. Of New York City and Southport, CT., passed away July 13, 2004. Born in 1923, she is survived by her children Christopher (Susan), Catherine, Susan (David), her sister Joan von Koschembahr and her companion, Joseph Thorndike. She delighted in her grandchildren Andrew, 
 CRUIKSHANK--Marianne, of New York, NY, died peacefully in her sleep after a battle with pancreatic cancer on Tuesday, August 17, 2004. Devoted mother to son Doug (Lisa), daughter Christina and loving grandmother of Lindsey and Robbie. Also survived by sister Marjorie (Simon) Hewett, to whom
 DONNOLA -- Nettie. August 18, 2004. We remember her love and acts of kindness for family, friends and strangers. She balanced her love of art and literature with her commitment to help others. And, like our late father, she loved New York City. Please donate to any hospice. The Donnolas    
 NGO--Dr. Ignacia U., 64, passed away on August 18, 2004 four days after a massive stroke. She was an extraordinary, vivacious, and beautiful person, beloved and respected by her relatives, friends, colleagues, and patients. ''Iggy'' grew up in Manila and Xiamen, attended the University of t
 PETERS--Susan, 53, on August 18 after a battle with cancer. Beloved daughter of Janet and the late Mark. The best sister of Margery. Cherished niece of Bernice, Ellis, and Herbert. Dear cousin of Lee, Arline, Jody, Lewis, and Migs. Producer, journalist, educator, friend. She touched so many
 Susan Mary Alsop, who proclaimed that she saw ''no future in being an ordinary person'' and became a celebrated political hostess and later an author, died on Wednesday at her home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington. She was 86. The cause was complications of pneumonia, An
 BAUM--Helene B. On August 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Gary, loving and cherished mother of Jill, adoring grandmother of John, devoted sister of Harvey, dear motherin-law of Ruth, will be profoundly missed and remain in our hearts forever. Services Monday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Str
 LOVENTHAL--Gleniss Smith. Died August 19, 2004. Beloved mother of Dr. Ellen Landsberger and Richard & Robin Landsberger. Proud grandmother of Michael, Justin and Morgan. Adored sister of the late Dr. Richard J. Smith. Loving aunt, cousin and friend to many. A teacher in Manhasset, N.Y. for 
 LUBLINER -- Ida. Beloved wife of Max, devoted mother of Rozlyn and Barry Shapiro, Estelle Lubliner, Dr. Jerry and Melissa Lubliner. Dear sister of Leon Finer. Loving grandmother of Hal and Jodie, Lisa and Adam, Jourdann, Justin. Services Sunday, 11:45AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amst
 NGO--Ignacia U., M.D., on August 18, 2004. Retired anesthesiologist Roosevelt Hospital. Loving daughter, sister and companion. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday, August 21, 3:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Departm
 REKANT--Linda Esrov. On August 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Bruce. Dear sister of Dr. Harvey Esrov of Bethesda, MD. Her infectious laugh and ebullient personality touched everyone she met. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday at 2:30PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donat
 ALEXANDER -- Jane. Be loved wife of Michael. Cherished mother of Jessica. Favorite sister of Gerri and Lenny Moskowitz. Adored aunt and great aunt of Jeffrey and Pam Moskowitz, Sara, Zachary and Zoe and Larry and Tina Moskowitz and Sam. She will live in our hearts forever--and then some.   
 APPELBAUM--Barbara. Of New York, died on August 20, 2004. Wife of her late beloved Benjamin. She is survived by her son, Joseph, her sister, Joan B. Rosen, as well as a close-knit family of cousins, nephews, nieces, in-laws and life long friends. Services Monday August 23, 11:45 AM at ''The
 BAUM--Helene B. On August 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Gary, loving and cherished mother of Jill, adoring grandmother of John, devoted sister of Harvey, dear motherin-law of Bruce, will be profoundly missed and remain in our hearts forever. Services Monday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St
 BRILLON--Rita. Of Oceanside, NY on August 20, 2004. Beloved wife of Henry for 58 years. Loving mother of Paula (Brian Quinn), Naomi (the late Martin Paige) and Barbara (Glenn Weiss). Devoted sister of Herbert and Geri Sedler and sister-in-law of Hy Brillon. She will be greatly missed by her
 KAMM--Hedy. Died Friday, August 20. Born in Vienna in 1907, she fled Austria and hid in France during WWII while her husband Henry fought the Nazis with the French Foreign Legion. She helped her parents escape from Austria before she and her husband came to the U.S. in 1941. She had a succe
 KNAUTH--Behri Pratt, 82, of Stonington, CT died peacefully at Fairview Manor on August 19, 2004. She was born in New York City, November 10, 1921, the daughter of Richard Pratt and Marjorie Marsh. She was graduated from Julia Richmond High School in 1939, where she excelled in the arts. She
 LOVENTHAL--Gleniss Smith. Died August 19, 2004. Beloved mother of Dr. Ellen Landsberger and Richard & Robin Landsberger. Proud grandmother of Michael, Justin and Morgan. Adored sister of the late Dr. Richard J. Smith. Loving aunt, cousin and friend to many. A teacher in Manhasset, N.Y. for 
 LUBLINER -- Ida. Beloved wife of Max, devoted mother of Rozlyn and Barry Shapiro, Estelle Lubliner, Dr. Jerry and Melissa Lubliner. Dear sister of Leon Finer. Loving grandmother of Hal and Jodie, Lisa and Adam, Jourdann, Justin. Services Sunday, 11:45AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amst
 PETERS--Susan, 53, on August 18 after a battle with cancer. Beloved daughter of Janet and the late Mark. The best sister of Margery. Cherished niece of Bernice, Ellis, and Herbert. Dear cousin of Lee, Arline, Jody, Lewis, and Migs. Producer, journalist, educator, friend. She touched so many
 REKANT--Linda Esrov. On August 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Bruce. Dear sister of Dr. Harvey Esrov of Bethesda, MD. Her infectious laugh and ebullient personality touched everyone she met. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday at 2:30PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donat
 SHWEITZER--Hortense. On August 20, 2004. Beloved wife of Henry. Cherished mother of Lynn Slutsky and Paul Shweitzer. Adored grandmother of Vicki, Jason, Jenna and Mark. Loving greatgrandmother of Lilah. Hortense was the essense of love in all of our lives. We will miss her greatly. Services
 SILZER--Florence Joan Windatt. Died peacefully on August 13th, 2004. Joan was born in Winnipeg, Canada, the daughter of Dorothy A. and Richard D. Windatt and grew up in Plainfield, NJ where she was married and started a family. In 1966, they moved to the Fairfield-Westport CT area. She is s
 VENABLE RAPP--Virginia. Widow of William Jourdan Rapp, playwright ''Harlem'' 1929. August 12, 2004 at home, Lynchburg, VA. Born Devil's Lake, ND, June 8, 1907; graduated magna cum laude Rockford College; awarded fellowship (Philosophy) Cornell; chose Broadway. Starred in ''Fiesta'', two pla
 APPELBAUM--Barbara. Of New York, died on August 20, 2004. Wife of her late beloved Benjamin. She is survived by her son, Joseph, her sister, Joan B. Rosen, as well as a close-knit family of cousins, nephews, nieces, in-laws and life long friends. Services Monday August 23, 11:45 AM at ''The
 JULIBER -- Roslyn. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 RASHKIS--Lillian (Libby). 84, died on August 21, 2004. Loving and loved wife of Jerome for 62 years. Cherished by our two daughters, Judith and Susan, three grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Libby was an enthusiastic and talented athlete most of her life. Unfortunately, she finally su
 REMMER -- Patricia Cady. Passed away peacefully, surrounded by her family, on August 19, 2004. Pat was an incredible woman devoted to her family and friends. Known for her charm, enthusiasm and positive outlook, she exuded warmth to everyone who met her. Supportive and caring, independent a
 SHWEITZER--Hortense. To our very special mother, grandmother and recent great - grandmother. You were adored by everyone. Your temperament was enviable, you were unique. We will always miss you. Lynn and Jeffrey Slutsky Vicki, Lorayne, Jason and Courtney and Lilah SHWEITZER--Hortens
 ZIEGLER--Harriet. Beloved wife, mother, and grandmother. Harriet passed away on August 21, 2004, at New York Hospital. She had a serious case of esophageal cancer. Harriet was totally dedicated to her family. Her husband Stephen, her two children, David Ziegler and Debra Schwartz, two in-la
 Semiha Berksoy, the first lady of Turkish opera as well as one of the most colorful figures in contemporary Turkish art, died Aug. 15 in Istanbul. She was 94. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her daughter, Zeliha, said. In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her
 COREYS--Esther. (Eisen) of Framingham, MA and West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Westbury, NY entered into rest August 20, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Rhea and Mark Mohler of Reston, VA and Linda and Harold Coderre of Framingham, MA. Cherished grandmother of Sandr
 COSGRIFF--Mary Shaw, of Tenafly, NJ on August 22, 2004. Wife of Dr. Stuart Worcester Cosgriff Sr. Daughter of the late Helen and Wesley Shaw. Mother of Mary, Thomas, Stuart Jr., Richard and Robert. Grandmother of Heather, Kate, Thomas Jr., Jason, Matthew, Stacy, Stuart III, Spencer, Wesley 
 KAUFER -- Sonya Firsten berg, of New York, died on August 21, 2004. Wife of George for 62 years. She was 82. She is survived by her husband, her daughters Drs. Judith Kaufer & Katherine Kaufer Christoffel, her son-in-law Max Von Hollweg and her four grandchildren. A longer notice can be fou
 MILLER--Belle. Of Brooklyn, New York, died August 20, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Julius Miller; beloved and devoted mother of Daniel and James; dear grandmother of Lisa, Amy, Matthew, Dawn, Michael and Julius and four great-grandchildren; and loving sister. Honored Trustee of the East M
 NGO--Ignacia U., M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Ignacia U. Ngo, M.D., a member of the faculty in the Dept. of Anesthesiology for 28 years. ''Iggy,'' as she was affectionately known a
 REMMER--Patricia. The Barnard College community is deeply saddened by the death of its devoted Trustee Emerita, Patricia Remmer, Class of 1945, who served on the Board from 1990 to 2001 and was Chair of the President's Circle for more than a decade. Her energy, wise advice and generosity of
 SHATTUCK--Martha Merrill. Died peacefully at her home in Guilford, CT on August 21. She is survived by the family that she was devoted to and who love her and miss her: James, her husband of 63 years; her three sons, Bradlee, Alden and Jonathan; her daughter-in-law, Marianne; her five grand
 SYMINGTON--Fran. Died August 21, 2004. Deeply loved by her husband Andrew, and many many strong friends, her family and by her colleagues. Fran was an inspiration to her students who benefited from her care and her talent for education. Born in the Bronx in 1932 and educated at Brooklyn Col
 TEDLOW--Lillian G. Died on Tuesday August 17, 2004, beloved wife of Samuel Tedlow, mother of David, Robin and Richard. She and ''Ted'' shared a love of opera and travel. Side by side, they have now both embarked on their final journey.       
 FUCHSBERG--Esta. Of Great Neck, NY, on August 23, 2004, of complications from ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Seymour for 50 years. Loving mother of Jane, Paula and Gil and devoted mother-in-law of Debbie. Adoring grandmother of Ella and Julian. Cherished sister to Lou (and wife Evelyn) and
 WHITE--Marjorie (nee Taggart), M.D. Psychologist and psychoanalyst, died in New York Hosptial on August 17, 2004 at the age of 88. She had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for many years. Dr. White was born in Upstate New York and attended the University of Rochester, where she earned her 
 GOLD--Joseph. 2/24/18928/25/1999. Age 1071/2 years. Gone five years today. Greatly missed. We are grateful for the last 71/2 years you spent with us here in New Jersey. Everything is going well with us and you are in a beautiful place next to Mom in Paramus, NJ, and it's air conditioned. Fo
 Dr. Elisabeth Kbler-Ross, the psychiatrist whose pioneering work with terminally ill patients helped to revolutionize attitudes toward the care of the dying, died Tuesday at her home in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 78. She died after losing consciousness last week, according to her s
 FRANKLIN--Phyllis. The Modern Language Association mourns the loss of Phyllis Franklin, who died on 20 August 2004 in Coral Gables, Florida. A scholar and teacher of American literature and women's studies, she served with great distinction as executive director of the MLA from 1985 until h
 FUCHSBERG--Esta. Of Great Neck, NY, on August 23, 2004, of complications from ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Seymour for 50 years. Loving mother of Jane, Paula and Gil and devoted mother-in-law of Debbie. Adoring grandmother of Ella and Julian. Cherished sister to Lou (and wife Evelyn) and
 GOLDBERG--Dorothy (nee Dosik). A resident of Brooklyn, NY from 1918-45, died in her Palm Springs, CA home on July 16 at the age of 85.       
 HOLLANDER--Sophie. In her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur. Loving mother of Ellen and Marvin Perlman, Charles and Ronni. Dear sister of Goldie Boden. Adoring Nanna of Leslie, Andrew & Jennifer, and Adam. Doting great grandmother of Mitchell Arthur. We love her, treasure her a
 Helen K. Copley, former publisher of The San Diego Union-Tribune and its predecessors and a prominent philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in La Jolla, Calif. She was 81. The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the newspaper said. Mrs. Copley began working at the U
 FELBERBAUM -- Beatrice Widder. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Felberbaum. Loving mother of Elaine Hirsch. Adored grandmother of Howard and Herbert Hirsch. Dear great-grandmother of Steven, Daniel, Samuel, Allison and Caitlin Hirsch. She is survived by her sister Gladys Dorfler. Beattie was
 FRANKLIN -- Phyllis. The Board and staff of the American Council of Learned Societies mourn the passing of Phyllis Franklin, former Executive Director of the Modern Language Association, former member of the Council's Board and long-time leader of and friend to the members of its Conference
 HEIDELL--Flora S. of Scarsdale. Passed away on August 24, 2004. Flora was born on June 19, 1928 in NYC to Alexander and Anna Siegel. She married James Heidell on June 26, 1952 also in NYC. James predeceased her on April 18, 1986. Beloved mother of Beth Underwood, Pam Heidell and Jim Heidell
 JACKSON--Patricia Woolsey. Of New Haven, CT, Delray Beach, FL, and Easthampton, NY, died peacefully August 17, at 87 years of age. She is survived by three children, Suzanne J. Cartier, Sheila J. Leach and Lionel Stewart Jackson Jr.; five grandchildren, four great-grandchildren and two sist
 GOODMAN -- Charlotte. Of Manhattan, New York, died August 26 at age 92. She was a French teacher and guidance counselor. She loved cats and loved to travel, later becoming a travel agent to share her passion with others. She is survived by her daughter, Deborah Goodman, two nieces, two neph
 GRANITE--Myrna Judith. On August 26. Of Ardsley, N.Y. Beloved wife of Bernie. Cherished mother, grandmother, sister and friend to all. Her wisdom and humanity touched everyone throughout her life and her passing epitomized the ultimate of dignity. She will be deeply missed by all the lives 
 KUBLER - ROSS -- Elisabeth. The Botstein family extends their condolences to the family of Elisabeth Kbler-Ross. Elisabeth, her sisters, and her husband, Manny, were close and dear friends of Charles and Anne Botstein from Zurich in the 1940s. Elisabeth was a dynamic and remarkably courageo
 STARK--Ruth D. (nee Derman). Died August 26, 2004 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and mother-in-law of Pat. Loving grandmother of David, Robert and Rachel. Graveside service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, LI, on Sunday August 29th at 11:30 AM. In her m
 Laura Branigan, a singer whose high-volume vocals in the disco-style song ''Gloria'' propelled her into pop stardom, died in her sleep Thursday night at her home in East Quogue, N.Y. She was 47. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her brother Mark Branigan. After touring as
 BARTON -- Amy Veerhoff. Died August 24, at age 91, ending a life devoted to empowering people. She was a parent, mentor, actress, speech therapist, and avid Quaker. Her family operated Veerhoff Galleries, one of Washington DC's best known art houses. Her husband Samuel G. Barton founded Mar
 CALIGOR--Judith. The Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of our esteemed member. We send condolences to her family. CALIGOR--Lee and Judy. The Postdoctoral Programs of Adelphi University deeply mourn the passing of our colleagues and friends, whose spirit and wisdom 
 FEINGOLD--Eva Ellis. Beloved by so many of those who were privileged to know her. Beloved daughter of Samuel and Lena Ellis. Beloved sister of Abraham, Harry, Eli and Kenneth Ellis. Beloved mother of David Abraham Ellis - Feingold. Beloved grandmother of Sara Elizabeth Ellis. May she rest i
 GOODMAN -- Charlotte. Of Manhattan, New York, died August 26 at age 92. She was a French teacher and guidance counselor. She loved cats and loved to travel, later becoming a travel agent to share her passion with others. She is survived by her daughter, Deborah Goodman, two nieces, two neph
 GRANITE--Myrna Judith. On August 26. Of Ardsley, N.Y. Beloved wife of Bernie. Cherished mother, grandmother, sister and friend to all. Her wisdom and humanity touched everyone throughout her life and her passing epitomized the ultimate of dignity. She will be deeply missed by all the lives 
 HOLLANDER--Sophie. In her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur. Loving mother of Ellen and Marvin Perlman, Charles and Ronni. Dear sister of Goldie Boden. Adoring Nana of Leslie, Andrew & Jennifer, and Adam. Doting great grandmother of Mitchell Arthur. We love her, treasure her an
 LEVINE--Ruth Wiener. August 16, 2004. Lover of photography, travel and New York City. She will be missed by her brother Milton, his wife Annette, their extended family and her many friends.       
 MANDEL--Eva Ellis. Died August 28. Beloved wife, sister, mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. Widow of Samuel Feingold and Milton Mandel. Survived by her loving children Marion Stein (husband Ronald), David, and Ellen (husband Michael Lydon). Also survived by devoted brother Kenneth 
 STARK--Ruth D. (nee Derman). Died August 26, 2004 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and mother-in-law of Pat. Loving grandmother of David, Robert and Rachel. Graveside service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, LI, on Sunday August 29th at 11:30 AM. In her m
 BECKER--Elissa. Died August 28, 2004, at age 67. Beloved wife of Stanley. Loving mother of Debi (Ken) Greenbaum and David (Barri). Adoring grandmother of Michael, Allison, Danielle and Wendy. Funeral service will be held at Gutterman's Chapel, Rockville Centre, NY, Monday, August 30, at 10 
 FOSSETT--Janet Perloff. 50, of Delmar, NY, formerly of New York City, on August 29, 2004. Beloved wife of James W. Fossett, mother of Jeffrey Fossett, daughter of Sondra Perloff and the late Milton Perloff, sister of Linda (Perloff) Freundlich and Sheila (Perloff) Eddison. Born and raised i
 APPELL--Lilyan on August 29, 2004. She was 96. She is survived by her beloved sons, Michael and his wife Shelley and Henry. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Adoring sister of Fritzi.       
 DROSSMAN--Anne, 88, of Brooklyn, NY, on August 29th, 2004. Beloved daughter of Lena and Joseph Rosenberg and sister of Abe (deceased) and Murray. Adored wife of Edward (deceased). Devoted mother of Phyllis Bulhack of New City and Neil Drossman of Manhattan. Adoring grandmother of David, Bet
 KAPLAN--Helen Ruth (nee Goldzimer) of Larchmont, NY died August 26. Beloved wife of Dennis, cherished mother of William & Felicia. Survived by brother Edward and sister Edith. Her strength and spirit will live on inside us forever. Donations can be made to The Lustgarten Foundation for Panc
 KERR--Ellen Dagmar, on August 30, 2004. Beloved mother of Ragna Lavagnino and her husband John J. Cherished grandmother of John S. and Christopher K. Loving aunt of Peggy Geimer, Regina Lewis and Robert Nilsson. Also survived by many other loving nieces and nephews. Family will receive frie
 KURTZ--Rebecca. Her daughter Harriet Ross and family had a very close relationship with Mom and Grandma at the Hebrew Home for Aged at Riverdale for the last three years. We are going to miss dear Mom & Grandma. Graveside services are at Baron Hirsch Cemetery, Staten Island, Tuesday at 1 P.
 MANES -- Esther (Chesler). On August 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Mathew. Cherished sister of Sarah and the late David. Adored mother of Marthe (Bob), Cathy (Rob) and Laurie, and grandmother of Darcy (Jonathan), Lindy, Sarah (Darin) and David (Megan). Funeral private. Contributions in
