 CUSHMAN-Jane. The MacDougal-Sullivan Garden Association mourns the death of our longtime friend and neighbor, Jane Cushman. Jane was an esteemed member of our community and we will miss her. We extend our love and deep sympathy to her son, Tom, and her sister, Amanda.       
 JONES-Joanne Ora. Age 63 of Hudson, WI died December 28, 1998. She was born February 27, 1935 in Appleton, WI, the daughter of Harvey and Ora Gygi. Wife of the late Donald R. Jones. She enjoyed traveling and in the last few years visited China, Russia, Germany and Egypt to see first-hand th
 MALVIN-Anne. Of Hollywood, FL. Formerly of Rockville Centre, New York. Passed away December 30, 1998. She was the beloved mother of Susan (Dr. Noel) Nathanson and Wendy (Stephen) Miller. Loving grandmother of Gary (Susan), David (Allison), Karen (Ted), Debra (Vic), Lisa (Jeff) and Barry (Le
 MENDELSON-Mildred. On December 27, 1998 at the age of ninety, at Laguna Hills CA. Wife of the late Philip Mendelson. She taught student teachers and children in New York City for many years. Her cheerfulness and laughter will be missed by nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews, great
 ORKIN-Sylvia Holland on Thursday, Dec. 31, 1998, of Bal Harbour, FL, formerly of NYC. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Lazarus A. Orkin. Dear mother of Dr. Fred and Susan Orkin and Drs. Stuart and Roslyn Orkin. Cherished grandmother of Jane, Jeffrey and Jennifer Orkin. Loving sister of Emil Hol
 POLLACK-Rae. Passed away peacefully December 28, 1998 at the age of 89. Loving mother of Leslie and Yvonne Pollack and the late Susan Pollack. Devoted grandmother of Jonathan Pollack, Jennifer Reiner and Fredrica Pollack. Proud great-grandmother of Annie Reiner. Beloved wife of the late Mar
 WYSS-Lillian D. of Hillsdale, NJ died unexpectedly early December 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Albert C. Wyss. Devoted mother of Nancy and Caroline. Dear aunt of Robert C. Wyss, William Britton, Charles and Richard Van Patten, Dorothy Mayer and Catherine Koenig. As an outstanding artist, Lilli
 COHEN-Sara 1/1/29 1/1/99 In cherished and loving memory on her 70th birthday. Forever missed. Sonia.       
 BELL-Beatrice. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Mrs. Charles (Beatrice) Bell, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary 
 KASLOFF-Ruth. On New Year's Day, 1999. Devoted wife of the late George Kasloff; beloved sister of Lilyan Simels; loving mother of Harriet and Stan Berman, Tina Carver; adored grandmother of Jeffrey, Brian and Daniel Carver, Jessica, Jonah and Eliza Berman; devoted aunt of Toba Stutz and Rob
 LAKE-Edith (nee Ehrlich) on Thursday, December 30, 1998 at Mt. Sinai Hospital at age 83. Predeceased by her husband Daniel Arthur Lake (Lackowitz). She is survived by two nieces, Laurie Beckoff Nagy and Jill Beckoff Nagy and two grandnieces and two grandnephews. Services on Sunday at 1 P.M.
 ORKIN-Sylvia Holland on Thursday, Dec. 31, 1998, of Bal Harbour, FL, formerly of NYC. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Lazarus A. Orkin. Dear mother of Dr. Fred and Susan Orkin and Drs. Stuart and Roslyn Orkin. Cherished grandmother of Jane, Jeffrey and Jennifer Orkin. Loving sister of Emil Hol
 SPIGLAND-Sheilah. The Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center is deeply saddened by the passing of its member, Sheilah Spigland. Sheilah was a dedicated volunteer who worked in the gift shop as well as in the library. She gave unstintingly of her time in the library and donated many, many bo
 WYSS-Lillian D. of Hillsdale, NJ died unexpectedly early December 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Albert C. Wyss. Devoted mother of Nancy and Caroline. Dear aunt of Robert C. Wyss, William Britton, Charles and Richard Van Patten, Dorothy Mayer and Catherine Koenig. As an outstanding artist, Lilli
 Mary Ann Unger, a sculptor and curator, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 53. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Born in New York in 1945, Ms. Unger began making sculpture as a child in art classes at the Museum of Modern Art. In 1967, she received 
 BIRDOFF-Helen. Died December 24, 1998. She was and always will be a wonderful person. Her presence and our memories will never leave us. Her thoughtfulness and class were terrific. A most loving wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother, she will be missed. With all our love, we tearf
 ICELAND - Marianne. Beloved wife of the late Ben. Died on December 30, 1998 after a long and very interesting life. She will be missed by her family and her many friends of all ages. Marianne, we will certainly miss you. Memorial service to be held Sunday, January 24 at 1:30 PM at Riverside
 ODZA-Marian. Died suddenly in New York City on January 1, 1999. Survived by beloved brother Paul Varkell, sister-in-law Jane Varkell and grandchildren Randy and Samantha Odza. Her loss will leave a deep void in our lives. Active member in C.O.M.A. Micrological Group, N.Y. Audubon, and Fern 
 ORKIN-Sylvia Holland on Thursday, Dec. 31, 1998, of Bal Harbour, FL, formerly of NYC. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Lazarus A. Orkin. Dear mother of Dr. Fred and Susan Orkin and Drs. Stuart and Roslyn Orkin. Cherished grandmother of Jane, Jeffrey and Jennifer Orkin. Loving sister of Emil Hol
 SPIGLAND-Sheilah. The President, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore Medical Center community are deeply saddened by the passing of Sheilah Spigland, beloved and devoted wife of Ilya Spigland, M.D., Director of the Division of Virology at Montefiore. Mrs. Spiglan
 STOKES-Katrina Roelker. 89, died at Hanover, NH on December 24, 1998 of heart failure. Widow of Isaac N.P. Stokes, who died in August 1998. Survived by three children from her first marriage to William R. Huntington: Lydia H. Sparrow, Madge Huntington Cooper, Mary H. Silloway; 13 grandchild
 USADI-Kathleen, age 57, died Monday, December 28, 1998, in Brooklyn. Wife of Bob, mother of Douglas and Ben, sister of Patty Lollis. Her life was rich with feelings for growing things, painting, listening, talking, information, friends. She loved working with children. She was not a simple 
 WYSS-Lillian D. of Hillsdale, NJ died unexpectedly early December 24, 1998. Beloved wife of Albert C. Wyss. Devoted mother of Nancy and Caroline. Dear aunt of Robert C. Wyss, William Britton, Charles and Richard Van Patten, Dorothy Mayer and Catherine Koenig. As an outstanding artist, Lilli
 CARR-Kristen Ann. Year after year we're reminded of her powerful presence. Our thoughts and love go out to her family and friends. Marilyn and Seth       
 ARPIARIAN-Vartouhi. 90 years old. Born in Kharpert, Turkish-Armenia. Died on Tuesday, December 29, 1998. Survivor of the Turkish genocide of 1915, she and her remaining family eventually migrated to the U.S. Beloved sister of Anahid Kludjian; nieces Sona Kludjian and Carmen Collins, and two
 AUFRICHTIG-Ethel (nee Horowitz). On January 3, 1999, of cancer at age 79. Beloved wife of Jess. Devoted mother of Michael and wife, Amy. Adoring grandmother (Nana) of Elyse. She was a graduate of Hunter College, an active member of The League of Women Voters, and a very special person. She 
 DIAMOND-Babette Waldstreicher. 86, of New York City. Died Sunday, January 3. Loving mother of Judy Bergner. Loving mother-inlaw of Bob Bergner. Beloved grandmother of Michael, Eric and Scott Wilker. Great-grandmother of Jordon, Melissa and Samantha Wilker. Beloved sister of Eugene Carlin. S
 FRIEDMANN-Olive. On December 31, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jack Friedmann, dear mother of Robert J. S. (Mary), Peter (Marian) and Toni (Jerry) Gales, cherished grandmother of Jacki, Eric, Jeffrey, Richard, Elizabeth, Jessica, Beverly and great-grandmother of Brian, Maxwell, and Grace. 
 LEWIS-Barbara Connolly. A choral conductor and teacher of ensemble singing, died at her home in Belmont on Saturday, January 2, 1999. A graduate of Radcliffe College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education, she began her career as an assistant to G. Wallace Woodworth at Harvard. After 
 ODZA-Marian. Died suddenly in New York City on January 1, 1999. Survived by beloved brother Paul Varkell, sister-in-law Jane Varkell and grandchildren Randy and Samantha Odza. Her loss will leave a deep void in our lives. Active member in C.O.M.A. Micrological Group, N.Y. Audubon, and Fern 
 ROSS-Margaret Haskell. Of Basking Ridge, NJ, and Edgartown, MA. Beloved wife of Edmund Burke Ross and mother of Edmund B., Jr., Amory L., Benson T., Parthenia Kiersted, and the late Robin. A memorial service will be held at the Church of St. John on The Mountain, Mt. Harmony Rd., Bernardsvi
 SHINN-Eleanor H. Of Blue Point, Long Island, and Rego Park, Queens, NYC has left this world on December 31, 1998 to be with God and her beloved husband, Arthur F.W. Shinn. She is the loving mother of Cecilia and Arthur, Jr. and adored grandmother. Funeral mass will be held at St. Patrick's 
 WHITING-John R. On Dec. 16, 1998. Memorial service Saturday, January 16, at 2 PM at South Presbyterian Church, 343 Broadway, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Community Hospital of Dobbs Ferry, South Prebyterian Church, Dobbs Ferry or the Block Isla
 BACHARACH-Miriam. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Miriam Bacharach. We extend profound condolences to her husband, Ernst, former Vice President, her sons and daughters-in-law Gary and Esther, Neil and Hannah, her grandchildren and the entire family. May the family
 BESMERTNIK-Blanche, 78, a 22 year resident of Coral Springs, FL, and formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on January 1, 1999. Blanche was the devoted wife of the late Joseph Besmertnik and the daughter of the late Samuel and Sarah Burstein. She is survived by her loving children, Zena and 
 CHAMBERS-Isabel. Died on January 3rd, 1999. Born in New York City on July 2nd, 1909. She was a life-long resident of New York City. Daughter of the late Margaret and William H. Finegan; beloved wife of the late Norman; mother of Denise; grandmother of Elaine, Sue, Marilyn and Debora; great 
 CLAYMAN-Doris. Tifereth IsraelTown & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol J. Green       
 MYERS-Aimee Fleck, 95. On January 2. Wife of the late Clifford L. Myers. She is survived by her children Ronnie Eldridge, Lawrence Myers, their spouses Jimmy Breslin and Barbara Myers; her grandchildren Daniel, Emily and Lucy, their spouses Jean McGavin, Michael Silberman and Laurence Freed
 THEOBALD-Ann. On January 4, 1999. Beloved and devoted wife of Jack Theobald for 64 years. Much loved mother of Harvey, Henry and Lana Theobald, adoring grandmother of Lori and Evan Kornrich, dedicated great grandmother of Joshua and Michelle Kornrich also she is survived by her loving broth
 WINSTON-RUBENSTEIN-Alice, of NYC, on Sunday, January 3rd, 1999, of cancer. Master drama teacher of the Stella Adler Theatre School. She is survived by her husband, Boris Rubenstein, son, Stephen Rubenstein, and two sisters, Irene Wyman of Boston and Fay Rosen Bain of NYC. Services today, 10
 WOHL-Frieda, at 90 years old. Died on January 2, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Peter & Ellen. Adoring grandmother of Matthew, Amy, and Aaron. She will live on in our hearts and memories.       
 BACHARACH-Miriam. The Officers and members of the Kingsbridge Center of Israel record with sorrow the passing of Miriam Bacharach. May her loving family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Harvey Crupar Ben Lobenberg, Chairman       
 BLUMENGARTEN-Jeanne. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Jeanne Blumengarten. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Mar
 BROWN-Sylvia on January 5, 1999. Beloved mother of James, Barbara, Bruce & Anita. Devoted grandmother of Marlene, Caren, Michael, Laura and Eric. Loving great grandmother of Allison, Mark, Benjamin, Caroline and Jonathan. Her friends and family were blessed by her unconditional love, loyalt
 DECKER-Norma S. Of Southold, NY and Jupiter, FL. (formerly of Garden City, NY) passed away on January 4th after a brief illness. Mrs. Decker was the beloved wife of 41 years to the late Honorable George K. Decker Jr., and loving mother to Stephen of Brentwood NY; G. Kelly of Centreville, VA
 HECHING-Herta. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its devoted and dedicated member, Harry Heching. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 LAUB-Helen. The Laub family deeply mourns the loss of their beloved Helen on January 5, 1999 at the age of 88. She was the linchpin of our family in guiding us to the ultimate in kindness, understanding, ideals, warmth, integrity and love for the arts through her philosophical wit and spiri
 MYERS-Aimee Fleck, 95. On January 2. Wife of the late Clifford L. Myers. She is survived by her children Ronnie Eldridge, Lawrence Myers, their spouses Jimmy Breslin and Barbara Myers; her grandchildren Daniel, Emily and Lucy, their spouses Jean McGavin, Michael Silberman and Laurence Freed
 ROSS-Margaret Haskell of Basking Ridge, N.J. and Edgartown, MA. on January 2, 1999. Beloved wife of Edmund Burke Ross and mother of Edmund B. Jr., Amory L., Benson T., Parthenia Kiersted and the late Robin. Sister of Anne Ellis, Hope Jones and Isabel DeTomaso. Also survived by nine grandchi
 SOLOMON-Dr. Alfred. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Evelyn Solomon and family upon the loss of her beloved husband. May the families be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi   
 STONE-Elaine died January 5, 1999. Devoted wife of Louis; most beloved mother of Richard, Susan and Stuart Wilks; cherished and adored Goggy of Lisa and Adam; dearest cousin, sister, aunt, and friend. She was the epitome of goodness & generosity. Services, Wednesday, January 6, at 1:30PM, T
 THOMPSON - Lillian Elizabeth, died peacefully on January 1, age 76, in London at the Royal Hospital for Neuro-Disability. Despite being severly disabled from MS for over thirty years she had a wonderfully strong spirit, a love of life that turned into a great will to live. She is lovingly r
 WECHTER-Shosha (Sophie). Wife of the late Karl. Mother of Mira Rosenfeld (Tim) Sennett of Atlantic Beach. Dear mother-in-law of Joel M. Rosenfeld. Caring grandmother of Dr. Melissa (Dr. Thierry) Abitbol and Avery (Robyn) Rosenfeld. Great grandmother of David and Lauren Rosenfeld, and Dani H
 ANTONINI-Sandra, nee Pasimeni. January 4, 1999. She was born November 13, 1913 in New York City. Visitation 6:30-8PM Thursday with 7PM Vigil Service at Rhodes Funeral Home, Druid Chapel, Clearwater, FL. Services 1PM Friday, January 8, at St. Brendan Catholic Church and burial at Sylvan Abbe
 BOSKEY-Jill Ann. On January 3, after a brief illness. Jill was beloved as a daughter, sister, aunt, friend, anti-war activist, colleague, and of course, advocate. Her passing leaves a deep void in all our lives. Contributions may be made to the Center for Disability Advocacy Rights, 841 Bro
 FARBER-Viola. The Board, staff and artists of the Danspace Project mourn the loss of Viola Farber, a master teacher and unique presence in our community. Her spirit, though sorely missed, will live on in the many dancers whose lives and work she has touched. Karen Brosius, President Laurie 
 GOLDBLATT-Florence. On January 6. Beloved wife for 53 years of Aaron Goldblatt; caring mother of Susan Wolk and Michael Goldblatt; devoted mother-in-law of Lawrence Wolk; loving grandmother of Adam and Daniel. Member of the A.S.I.D., senior designer at W. & J. Sloane Co., and owner of Count
 WIEDER-Ethel. 92. Died peacefully on January 5, 1999. Beloved mother of Amy Ellner and the late Grace Wieder. Dear mother-in-law of Gene Ellner. Devoted grandmother of Joey, Nancy, and the late Eddie Ellner. Ethel was a very special woman known for her sharp intellect, great wit and generos
 Jane Clapperton Cushman, a writer and literary agent, died on Dec. 30 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was cancer, said her son, Thomas Cushman of Manhattan. Her company, the JCA Literary Agency, was founded by 
 ALMODOVAR-Joan Karen,. 64. At home in Winter Haven, Fla, on December 18, 1998. Formerly of New York, where she worked as an alcoholism counselor at St. Vincent's Hospital. Memorial Mass, 2 p.m., January 9 at St. Francis, 135 West 31st St. Interment at St. Michael's Cemetery, East Elmhurst, 
 EICHEL-Terry. Respected and beloved wife to the late Seymour Eichel; supportive and everlastingly committed to deceased parents Hilda and Hyman Glassman and brother Martin Glassman; dedicated and loving mother to Dawn J. Kenzer and the late Dennis S. Eichel. Proud, devoted and unconditional
 KRUPENIE-Harriet Ruth., died on January 4, 1999. Loving sister and aunt. She was a legal secretary at Davis & Polk. Services Sunday 11AM at Nieberg Midwood Chapel, 1625 Coney Island Ave. (Ave M), Brooklyn. Interment at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, L.I.       
 LANGFORD - Velma Mourine. (nee Haskew), age 80, December 19, 1998 in New York City. Beloved mother of Barbara Kathryne Langford-Miles. Devoted daughter of the late Anna Marie Hiedle-Haskew. Born February 12, 1918 in Stockton, Alabama. Resident of Abilene, Texas until 1984. Business Administ
 ROSELLE-Dr. Leone Rose. Musician, scholar, linguist, teacher, died on Monday, December 21, at the Kateri Rehabilitation Residence in Manhattan. Dr. Roselle performed professionally on piano and organ. She held several degrees from Columbia University, including two PhDs. She spoke French, S
 BLECHER-Sheila Janet. Loving wife, mother and grandmother. Longtime resident of White Plains, New York, and Boca Raton, Fla. Passed away on January 7, 1999, after a brief illness with ovarian cancer. Sheila was a retired reading specialist with the Pelham School District and devoted many ye
 CUSTER-Virginia Estabrook. 80. Of Naples, FL died Tuesday, January 6, 1999. Formerly of Chestertown, MD. She was a graduate of Hofstra University. Survived by three daughters, Barbara Ann Custer of Los Angeles, CA, Mimi Kaine (Jay W.) of Oak Ridge, TN, and Mary Custer of Los Angeles, CA.; o
 WEINER-Ruth Lessall. Age 94. Died Friday, January 8th. Devoted wife of the late Joseph L. Weiner. Loving mother of Stephen A. Weiner of Sands Point, NY and Elizabeth W. Vorenberg of Cambridge, MA, and mother-in-law of Mina Weiner and James Vorenberg. Aslo survived by her grandchildren Amy T
 BERMAN-Laura , on January 6, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samson, loving mother of Susan and Carrie, dear sister of Charles. Adoring grandmother of Sophie, Lily, Sam and Clara. Service Monday 11:15 am at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in her memory to: 
 BLECHER-Sheila. Loving wife, mother and grandmother. Longtime resident of White Plains, New York, and Boca Raton, Fla. Passed away on January 7, 1999, after a brief illness with ovarian cancer. Sheila was a retired reading specialist with the Pelham School District and devoted many years to
 ELLENBOGEN-Evelyn Jackter. Died January 8, 1999 at 93 years. Born in Brooklyn in 1905, she taught elementary school in the NYC public schools for 38 years. Wife of the late Nath Ellenbogen, mother of Marian Isenberg and Ruth Flaxman, grandmother of Alison, Neil, Caroline, Gary and Laura. We
 GAVRIELI-Frances Cetron (nee Leibman). On January 4. Beloved wife of Hanan Gavrieli of Fairlawn, NJ and Haifa, Israel. Loving mother of Richard Cetron of Old Bethpage, NY and the late Harvey Cetron of Mount Holly, NJ. Mother-in-law of Diane & Sheila Cetron. Grandmother of Heidi, David and B
 GORDON - SOLOMON - Judith. Died January 6, 1999, at the age of 79 in Sarasota, Florida. During her long career as an early childhood educator, Judith Gordon-Solomon touched the lives of hundreds of families and teachers. As nursery school director of The Walden School, and in the communitie
 HOWITT-Lillian. Will be deeply missed by Diane and Arthur, Neil, Michael, Adrianne, Mildred and many dear relatives, friends and colleagues. We will all attempt to carry on for her with the help of her countless friends. Lil inspired us with her great spirit. A true and truly good individua
 JONES-Mary Carter. Died peacefully at home Friday, January 8, 1999. Widow of Alfred Winslow Jones. She is survived by two children, Anthony Winslow Jones and Dale Jones Burch, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren, Adrian and Caroline Jones, Robert and Katie Burch. A memorial service wi
 KOCH-Camilla C. After a brief illness, died on Sunday, January 3rd. At her request there has been no service. Camilla, a native New Yorker, will be fondly remembered by her many friends and associates at Columbia University where she held responsible positions for more than 40 years.       
 MACKLER-Mildred. My beloved mother fought her illness with wisdom, grace and tremendous faith, always keeping her passion for life. She will be with me wherever I go and whatever I do. Lynn       
 MARSHALL-Sylvia Hitch. On January 7, 1999 in her 93rd year at Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Widow of Lawrence Clark Marshall, retired Vice Chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank. She is survived by her sons, Allerton Delano Marshall of Hilton Head Island and David Lawrence Marshall of G
 SACK-Susan Van Wyck. January 5th, 1999, at her home in Bermuda, after a long battle with cancer. Beloved wife of A. Albert Sack IV and devoted mother of Carter and A. Albert VI of Bailey's Bay, Bermuda. Daughter of the late Halsey A. Van Wyck and the late Dorothy I. Van Wyck of Long Island,
 SONNENSCHEIN-Edith H. ''Lene''. On January 8, 1999 after a long life of 97 years. Beloved wife of the late Hans. Dear sister of the late Greta Kramer. Survived by a cousin, Francis Gordon of London, England. Cherished lifelong friend of the Wells and Weinreich families. Donations in her mem
 STEELE-Madeline. On December 12th, 1998, at age 75, in London, England. Survived by her sons Joshua Steele, Mark Siegeltuch and Andrew Siegeltuch, daughter Abby Siegeltuch, her beloved grandchildren, Daniel Siegeltuch and Kathryn Siegeltuch, her sister Alice Erhard, and by her many friends.
 WEINER-Ruth Lessall. Age 94. Died Friday, January 8th. Devoted wife of the late Joseph L. Weiner. Loving mother of Stephen A. Weiner of Sands Point, NY and Elizabeth W. Vorenberg of Cambridge, MA, and mother-in-law of Mina Weiner and James Vorenberg. Aslo survived by her grandchildren Amy T
 WEISBERG-Charlotte. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Edwin and Karen Weisberg and Linda and Earle Altman. Dear sister of Bernie Feibush. Cherished grandmother of Leslie, Jennifer, Elizabeth and Eric. Adored great-grandmother of six. Service on Sunday 9:30AM, at Riverside, 2
 Clare Potter, a leading American fashion designer of the 1930's and 40's known for imaginative use of color and simplicity of line, died Jan. 5 at her home in Fort Ann, N.Y. She was 95. Along with Claire McCardell and Tina Leser, Ms. Potter was one of the designers credited with inv
 HUBERT-Rue H. Of Sharon, CT, died on January 3, 1999 at age 66, in NYC after a long illness. Daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Patrick C. Hill of Charlotte, VT, she attended Miss Porter's School and Sarah Lawrence College. She worked as an editor at House & Garden magazine. Predeceased by h
 JONES-Mary Carter. Died peacefully at home Friday, January 8, 1999. Widow of Alfred Winslow Jones. She is survived by two children, Anthony Winslow Jones and Dale Jones Burch, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren, Adrian and Caroline Jones, Robert and Katie Burch. A memorial service wi
 KOCH-Camilla C. After a brief illness, died on Sunday, January 3rd. At her request there has been no service. Camilla, a native New Yorker, will be fondly remembered by her many friends and associates at Columbia University where she held responsible positions for more than 40 years.       
 STOLPER-Enoch Lee. Formerly of Bayside. Captain and Chief Dental Suregon, USAC, during World War II and practicing dentist for over 40 years. Husband of Shirley (Jacobson) and late Norma (Picker); father of Ilene and George Silver; and Peter and Meredith Stolper; brother of Virginia Frank a
 BROWN-Irma. Adored wife of the late Frank. Beloved mother of Emily Brown, beloved mother-inlaw of Jack Russak, devoted grandmother of Charles and Sam, cherished sister of Michelle Fischler and Herman and Barbara Rubin. Loved by many nieces and nephews and their children. Her warmth and humo
 CARUSO - Margaret Marie. Passed peacefully at home on Sunday, January 10, 1999. Her parting will leave a void which we will fill with remembered joy. Mother touched our lives with much love and warmth and friendship. Funeral Services at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave, NYC.       
 CRANSTON-Jeannette, 72. In Stamford, CT, January 10. Survived by her husband, George, their children, Jane, Peter, Judith, Kevin, and Margaret; grandchildren Peter, Catherine and Amber and by her sister, Marilyn Farrell. Funeral services at St. Maurice's Church in Stamford January 13 at 10 
 DOHR-Kathryn Stanley. Aged 99, died on January 3, 1999. Wife of the late James Dohr, Professor at Columbia Business School, she was an alumna and long time benefactor of Wellesley College and Columbia University, and an active supporter of Planned Parenthood of New York.       
 DRYSDALE-Jeanne Bolden. 69 years, on January 8. Survived by her sister Barbara, children David, Susan, Roger, and six grandchildren. Services, Rosedale Funeral Home: 718-528-1180.       
 EISENMAN-Anna Lily. On January 10, 1999, in Florida. Devoted mother of Bernard and Rita Schifrin and mother-in-law of Della Eisenman and Sol Schifrin. Cherished grandmother of Roberta Bogash, Dr. Richard Eisenman, Ronald Eisenman, Karen Grosso, and Emily Chamberlain. Great grandmother of Ro
 FIVES-Grace. She entered into eternal rest on January 8, 1999. With great sorrow we see the end of an era. Grace owned the North Shore Steak House in Great Neck. Prior she ran The Jolly Fisherman in Roslyn. For all who knew her, she had a ready smile and a welcome. Left behind are her two s
 HSIA-Wai-Tsung New. Wife of late Dr. Chin Lin Hsia. Died at age 98 peacefully at home January 9, 1999. Grandmother of David Jr., Judy, Peter and Lisa and five greatgrandchildren. Memorial service 10:00 AM. Saturday, January 16 at her church The Community Church of Great Neck.       
 KESTENBAUM-Mildred. In her 101st year. Devoted wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Ethel and Joseph Renick, Pearl and Dr. Jonas Zucker, Rabbi Leon and Vivian Kestenbaum, Roslyn and Rabbi David Clayman. Devoted grandmother and great grandmother. Beloved sister of Yetta Kestenbaum and t
 LORBER-Ruth. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi LORBER-Ruth. Delaire Country Club announces with deep sorrow the pa
 LORBER-Ruth Perlish of Delray Beach, FL., and Kings Point, New York died January 10, 1999. Beloved Jewel of Jerry Lorber's life. Treasured mother of Sandi Fox. Wonderful friend to Dan & Debbie Lorber, Hank & Liz Lorber, Julia Lorber Benson, and Larry & Carol Rizzolo. Fabulous grandmother of
 PETERSHAM - Dr. Mary C. (Jones) Riley, 81, of 32 Sunset Lane, Petersham, MA died Saturday, January 9, 1999, in her home. She was known to her friends as Polly. She leaves her husband of 52 years, Dr. Richard L. Riley; a son, Richard C. Riley of Ithaca, NY; two daughters, Mary L. Riley of Ho
 SECHY-Elisse. Age 100 died January 7. Devoted member of the Oratorio Society of New York for almost half a century and its archivist for many years. Her old world charm and gentle demeanor endeared her to all. We loved her indomitable spirit and will sorely miss her. She requested that memo
 SENGHAS-Eleanor King. On January 3, 1999. Her 80th year. in Hanover, VA. Beloved mother of Dorothy and Robert. Mother-in-law of Paul and Terri. Dear sister and sister-in-law of Doris and William. Cherished aunt of Roberta, Madeline and Donna. Memorial service January 16, 2PM at Grace Episco
 STAUB-Faith Hussey. 73. Died peacefully after a long illness, surrounded by her loving family. Born in New York City, daughter of the late Rear Admiral and Mrs. Charles Lincoln Hussey , of Washington, D.C., and Litchfield, CT. She attended the Potomac School in Washington, D.C., graduated T
 SUSSMAN-Solomon (Cy). It is with profound sadness that we mourn the death of Cy Sussman. Our sincerest condolences to our dear friend Sydelle and her entire family. Bobbi, Mel and all the Weisses       
 WHITTY-Barbara (nee Smart). On January 10, 1999. Beloved wife of James P. Devoted sister of Doris S. Sandstrom. Also survived by her loving nieces: Lisa Tosh and Karin Sandstrom. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. (at 20th St.), NYC, Tuesday and Wednesday 2-5 and 
 ZUCKERMAN-Janet. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Laurie Katz Braun, Asst. Rabbi       
 Virginia Eloise Peterson Abelson, a former bookstore owner and past Democratic Party district leader who also worked in publishing and created crossword puzzles, died on Sunday at her home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 72. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Abel
 BARCLAY-Elizabeth Moore, 96. Died January 12, 1999. Wife of the late George C. Barclay; survived by Elizabeth Barclay Pennink of Medford, NJ; Margaret Barclay Chambers of Philadelphia, and George C. Barclay, Jr. of Devon, England; nine grandchildren and five great grandchildren. She was pub
 BELMONT-Yvonne. Widow of Marcel died peacefully on January 11, 1999. She was 96 years old. She is survived by her sons Gerard and Francis and her daughterin-law Claudine, her daughter Nadine Grelsamer and her son-in-law Philippe. Her grandchildren Carol de Gunzburg, Patrick, Valerie and Ger
 BERKOWITZ-Blanche. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late James, loving mother of Phyllis and Morton Handler, Stephen and Marlene Berkley. Grandchildren and great grandchildren.       
 CARUSO - Margaret Marie. Passed peacefully at home on Sunday, January 10, 1999. Her parting will leave a void which we will fill with remembered joy. Mother touched our lives with much love and warmth and friendship. Funeral Services at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave, NYC.       
 DOBKIN-James A. On Monday, January 11, 1999, of Bethesda, MD, lawyer, artist, loving and adored husband of Irma, son of Eve Dobkin and the late Louis R. Dobkin, father of Jill Sacher and her husband, Gil, and David Dobkin, brother of Bonnie Stone, grandfather of Alexandra Sacher. Funeral se
 GOLDSCHMID-Rose. A longtime NYC resident died on January 11, 1999. She was 100. Born June 18, 1898 to Abraham and Tillie Brown Zeigler in Wilmington, DE, Rose married the late Elliot. Survived by nieces and nephews Robert and Nancy Sylvor, Richard and Toby Gamsu, R. Anthony and Mona Zeigler
 GOODFRIEND-Evelyn. January 5, 1999. Beloved wife of Morton, sister of Judge Harold Baker. Born and raised in Katonah, family then relocated to Bronx. After marriage, Queens for twelve years, then Larchmont in 1970. Hunter College graduate, worked at consumer market reserach companies and fo
 HURWITZ-Bertha (Schneider) on January 10, 1999, late of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY and Revere, MA. Beloved aunt of Bernard and Esther Schneider. A graduate of Hunter College and Columbia University, she served her community as a family social worker and her country as a F
 LANDI-Ellen C. (Coleman). Of Heritage Village, Southbury, CT, in her 88th year, after a brief illness, at St. Mary's Hospital, Waterbury, CT. Originally of Pleasantville, New York, she was the daughter of the late Henry M. and Mary (Spencer) Coleman, and was married to Frank J. Landi, who d
 LIPTON-Edith S. Beloved wife of Israel. Devoted mother of Paul and Frank. She was a retired teacher. Services Thursday 1:30PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station Plaza, (opposite LIRR) Great Neck, New York.       
 LORBER-Ruth P. A gracious and sunny ''woman of valour'', who I will miss most for her consistent kindness over almost 30 years. To Pop and all who loved her, my deepest sympathy and affection. Barbara Heyman Lorber LORBER-Ruth. To Jerry Lorber and family we send our most sincere sym
 MITCHELL-Margot Finletter, on January 11, 1999, aged 77, of Stonington, CT., formerly of New York City. She is survived by her husband of fifty years, John F.B. Mitchell, her son, Thomas F. Mitchell, and granddaughters Ariel and Danica Mitchell. She was the sister of the late Lili Finletter
 PALADINO-Rose. Of New Rochelle, on January 12. Survived by her husband Michael, four daughters Joanne Powell, Saralyn Hilde, Christine Tozzo and Miriam Bruer, two sons Joseph and Joachim, nine grandchildren and one great grandchild. Visitation Wednesday, January 13, 7-9PM, Thursday, January
 RILEY-Dr. Mary C. (Jones), 81, of 32 Sunset Lane, Petersham, MA died Saturday, January 9, 1999, in her home. She was known to her friends as Polly. She leaves her husband of 52 years, Dr. Richard L. Riley; a son, Richard C. Riley of Ithaca, NY; two daughters, Mary L. Riley of Hong Kong, Chi
 SHUGRUE-Martha G. On January 11, 1999. Beloved wife of the late J. Edward Shugrue. Loving mother of William, Edward and John. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Marble Collegiate Church or the Jacob Perlow Hospice.       
 TSE-Ku Teh Ying. Passed away peacefully at her Manhattan residence on Sunday, January 10, 1999 at 5:25 PM at the age of 90. Born in China, beloved wife of the late Mr. Koong Kai Tse, senior executive of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). She has always been a devoted, supportive and 
 TURELL-Annette. Age 86. Passed away January 11 in Scottsdale, Arizona. She was a native and lived in Hewlett, Long Island for over 60 years. She was a member of the Woodmere Country Club. She was the wife of the late Norman Turell. She is survived by her son Robert L. (wife, Marjorie) of Sc
 YATTER-Faye on January 11, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Max, loving mother of Ronald, Irwin and Denise, cherished grandmother of Samara, Ahron, Galeit, Carise and Douglas. Loving mother-in-law to Marcia, Marsha and Pericles. Always devoted to her family. Private funeral services are today
 ANDERSON - Jervis. Maxine Greene mourns the loss of her former student, dear friend and supporting person.       
 BARCLAY-Elizabeth Moore, 96. Died January 12, 1999. Wife of the late George C. Barclay; survived by Elizabeth Barclay Pennink of Medford, NJ; Margaret Barclay Chambers of Philadelphia, and George C. Barclay, Jr. of Devon, England; nine grandchildren and five great grandchildren. She was pub
 BELMONT-Yvonne. Community Access mourns the passing of Yvonne Belmont, who, along with her son, Francis, daughter-in-law, Claudine, and grandson, Steven, has been a good friend and generous supporter of our work. We extend our sincere condolences to her family and friends. Alfred Cave, Pres
 BLUMENTHAL-Adelle L. Beloved of her husband Sam; their children Janet Jamieson (wife of Stephen) and Robert (Antje Rickel); and grandchildren Zachary and Joshua. She will be sorely missed by us. Funeral services at the Reconstructionist Synagogue, 1001 Plandome Road, Plandome, New York, Thu
 BURGER-Agnes H. 76. Of Delray Beach passed away January 12, 1999. She is survived by her loving son Thomas and daughter-in-law Shelly, of Colleyville, Texas, daughter Carol Anne of Delray Beach, brother Anthony DeLaPuente and sister-in-law Peggy of Sea Cliff, NY., grandchildren Leslie Beth,
 COHEN-Dorothy. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Loving mother of Claire, Allen, Milton and Rhoda. Grandmother of eight. Greatgrandmother of ten. Volunteer piano player at the Kings Bay YWHA through her 98th year. Shiva, 2621 Haring St., Brooklyn, NY.       
 DAFFNER-Beatrice Ivry Ernst. Age 95. On January 11, 2000. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Naomi and Stuart Paley, Judith and Victor Linn and Howard Ernst. Devoted sister of Billie Ivry. Dear grandmother of Adam and Rachel, Jane and Andrew, Gregory and Lisa and Jason. Greatgrandmother of 
 FEELEY-Alice M.. A Croton-onHudson resident and former longtime Brooklyn resident died January 13, 2000. She was 97. She was born November 12, 1902 to Joseph and Mary Dillon McGrane. She was a graduate of St. Joseph's College in Brooklyn, class of 1924. Alice married John T. Feeley on Febru
 FEINMAN-Faye. Beloved wife of Saul. Last of six Abramowitz siblings. Died in Florida Monday. Talented artist, musician, political buff. She will be missed by the nephews and nieces she adored. Graveside services at New Montefiore, Pinelawn, Long Island, at 1PM Friday, January 15. She will j
 FISHMAN-Eunice. Loving wife of Herman, beloved mother of Beth Trafton, Dr. Mindy Berstein and Leslie Snyder, and cherished grandmother. She provided the ultimate example of motherhood. She will be forever in our hearts & greatly missed. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M., Sunday, Janu
 FREEMAN-Ethel Wolff. On January 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Arthur R. Daughter of the late Louis and Rae Wolff. Loving mother of Linda (Ted) Lynn and Karen (Jack) Lowe. Adored grandmother of Jessica and Douglas Lynn and Deborah and Adam Lowe. Devoted sister of the late Shirley Cohen 
 GARBER-Estelle. Beloved wife of Harry Garber, mother of David Zwiebel, Alan Zwiebel and Ruth Lukashok, sister of Evelyn Melnikoff, Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. Wife of the late Louis J. Zwiebel. Burial was in Israel. GARBER - Estelle. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei 
 GROSS-Ruth. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Ruth Gross. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Bernard Steinweg, Pres. Heidi Klein, Secy GROSS-Ruth. Congr
 HALPERN-Gertrude., age 85, medical editor and journalist, former Managing Editor of Hospital Practice Magazine, died at her Manhattan home after a brief illness. She was a 1934 graduate of Barnard College, (Phi Beta Kappa, English honors) and was editor of the Barnard College newspaper. Dur
 JORDAN-Olivia Emily (Hebert). Born, Boley, Oklahoma, to William Edward Hebert and Blanche Julia Ann Hebert (nee Leon) June 30, 1912, died December 8, 1998, of lymphoma. Adored mother of Achille Edward, Blanche Jacqueline, and Cheryl Faithe. Valedictorian, Boley High School, 1927; B.A., Lang
 KURTZ-Syd. On January 12, 1999 of Hallandale, Florida. Formerly of Jamaica Estates, NY. Devoted wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Carol and Martin Silberg, Norman and Lisa Kurtz and Stuart and Sandy Kurtz. Cherished grandmother of Gayle, Steven, Neil, Laurie, Jackie, Andrew and Noel
 LIPTON-Edith S. Beloved wife of Israel. Devoted mother of Paul and Frank. She was a retired teacher. Services Thursday 1:30PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 55 North Station Plaza, (opposite LIRR) Great Neck, New York.       
 LORBER-Ruth P. A gracious and sunny ''woman of valour'', who I will miss most for her consistent kindness over almost 30 years. To Pop and all who loved her, my deepest sympathy and affection. Barbara Heyman Lorber LORBER-Ruth P. We note with great sorrow the death of Ruth Lorber, a
 NEVINS BAKER-Rae. Beloved mother of Edith Naarden and Leonard and Adele Baker. Adored grandmother and great grandmother of many. She was a woman of valor and her memories will live with us forever. We love you. Services Thursday, 12:30 PM at Boulevard Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett.     
 SAMPSON-Claire. Died January 12, 2000 in Chicago. Wife of the late Robert Sampson. She was awarded a prize for community service by the Mayor of Chicago. Survivors are daughter, Diane Sampson, sister Ruth Simon, nephew Roger Simon, nieces Martha Simon & Wendy Simon, sister-in-law Sis Lazar 
 STERN-Marcia. On January 12, 1999. Beloved wife of Sandy and mother of Lisa, Adam and Geoffrey, and mother-in-law of Linda. Adored daughter of Betty Fox Maged, stepdaughter of Myron Maged, and daughter-in-law of Laura Stern. Cherished sister of Jerry Fox, sister-in-law of Marcia Fox, and au
 STOUT-Elizabeth Sprague (Simonds), 92, of Hobe Sound, FL., and Prouts Neck, ME., died on January 11, 1999. Devoted wife of A. Varnick Stout, loving mother of Elizabeth Simonds Maynard and her husband Edwin P. Maynard, Chestnut Hill, MA, Daniel Simonds & his wife Helena R. of Wellesley, MA.,
 TSE-Ku Teh Ying. Passed away peacefully at her Manhattan residence on Sunday, January 10, 1999 at 5:25 PM at the age of 90. Born in China, beloved wife of the late Mr. Koong Kai Tse, senior executive of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). She has always been a devoted, supportive and 
 ZELLNER-Hilda. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 ARONS-Helen. Age 78. Beloved friend, aunt and sister passed away suddenly January 13. We will dearly miss her love, support and humor. Her courage was an inspiration to us all. Rest gently, dear Helen.       
 BAKER-Frances Burrill. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend Frances Baker, a cherished member of the University community for over forty years. She will be remembered for her kind and gentle spirit, keen intellig
 CARTER-Kit. Of NYC. She leaves Doris and Gerald Friedman, Andrew, Erik and Michele. For information, ''Gutterman - Musicant'' 800-378-1892.       
 FOLEY-Joan Poole. Age 79. Of New Vernon, N.J. on January 13, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edward J. Foley Jr. who died in 1997. Devoted mother of John C. and Edward J. III and daughter-in-law Noel Kade Foley of Morristown and Matthew Wicks Foley of Cherry Hill, N.J. sister of the late Mar
 FOREM-Mrs. Esther Amster. Died Wednesday, Janaury 13 in Richmond, Virginia. Beloved widow of Theodore Ross Forem; mother of Wendy Forem Alpert of New York City and Linda Forem Donohue of Richmond; grandmother of Mayme Beth and Benjamin; mother-in-law of Dave and Gary; sister of Morris Amste
 FREDESKOV-Doris. On January 12, 1999 at the Masonic Home in Utica, New York. Formerly of NYC. Survived by her father, Phillip Fredeskov. Private services.       
 GOLDNER-Rose. On January 14, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jack, loving mother of Merle and the late Frederick, adoring grandmother of Jared and Melanie. Devoted to her family, she will be profoundly missed. Visiting on Saturday 7-9PM. Service on Sunday 10:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th 
 GOSULE-Helen (Chodos), died peacefully on Wednesday, January 13, 1999, after a valiant fight with leukemia. Adored wife of Alan Gosule, beloved mother and best friend of Amanda Tarter, cherished daughter of Ruth Chodos and the late Irving, loving sister of Eileen Chodos Beth. The beauty of 
 GROSS-Ruth. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their member, Ruth Gross, and extends their sincerest sympathy to her husband, Jack, and her beloved family. Robert Goldberg, President ST#       
 GROSS-Ruth Littman. Passed in peace on January 13 in her 85th year after a long and debilitating illness. Wife, mother, grandmother, and great grandmother she filled each of these roles with love and adoration. She will live forever in the hearts of her children Rollie (Littman) and Samuel 
 LORBER-Ruth. January 10, 1999. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Ruth, wife of our esteemed member Jerome, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President       
 MILLER-Ruth. The family of Ruth Miller celebrates her life and mourns her passing on January 13, 1999. The loving wife of Alvin (deceased). The beloved mother of Carole, Arthur, and Michael. Mother-in-law of Laurence and Robin. The very proud and loving grandmother of Adam, Andrew, Alex and
 RUBINSTEIN-Alice M. (also known professionally as Alice Winston. Beloved masterteacher and colleague of The Stella Adler Conservatory of Acting for over thirty years. The students, faculty and administration wish to extend their heartfelt sympathies to her family. Our sincere gratitude for 
 STONE-Ruth. We remember a woman who was never frightened to take on the challenge; who befriended anyone in need; always gave herself for others and was forever loyal; who endured life's hardships head on and with a bright light in her eyes. Our hearts grieve at your passing and hope that l
 STOUT-Elizabeth Sprague (Simonds), 92, of Hobe Sound, FL., and Prouts Neck, ME., died on January 11, 1999. Devoted wife of the late A. Varick Stout, loving mother of Elizabeth Simonds Maynard, of Chestnut Hill, MA., Daniel Simonds of Wellesley, MA., Charles Sprague Simonds, Key West, FL., a
 TSE-Ku Teh Ying. Passed away peacefully at her Manhattan residence on Sunday, January 10, 1999 at 5:25 PM at the age of 90. Born in China, beloved wife of the late Mr. Koong Kai Tse, senior executive of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). She has always been a devoted, supportive and 
 Naomi Mitchison, author of more than 70 books, bohemian free thinker and feminist long before the term was coined, died on Monday at her home on the Mull of Kintyre in Scotland. She was 101. The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political
 CARTER-Lucette M.., 75. Of Poughquag, NY. Mrs. Carter was born in 1923 in New York City to Alfred and Marie Salles Monnier. She was a graduate of Cathedral High School and Hunter College, NYC. In 1953 at the Church of Notre Dame she married William H. Carter, Jr. who survives. Other survivo
 GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. 54, devoted daughter of Harry Meresman and the late Helen Chafets Meresman. Loving sister of Helaine Meresman Barnett, beloved wife of Michael David Goldman, adoring mother of Melissa Lee Goldman, Lori Goldman Zbar. Cherished aunt, dear niece, treasured friend. Funer
 GROSS-Ruth Littman. Passed in peace on January 13 in her 85th year after a long and debilitating illness. Wife, mother, grandmother, and great grandmother she filled each of these roles with love and adoration. She will live forever in the hearts of her children Rollie (Littman) and Samuel 
 STONE-Carol. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Carol Stone, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President       
 WELLS-Gwen. January 15, 1999. The offices, executive board, and membership of the Metro New York Labor Communications Counsel mourn the passing of former President, Gwen Wells. She was a leader, a woman of courage and principle, and a good and loyal friend to many of us. Martin Fishgold, Pr
 CHAISE-Ida Helen. January 15, 1999. Wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Ruth (Monte) Zimmerman, Largo, FL; and Jeffry, Bayside, NY. Sister of Harold (Ruth) Neiman. Sister-in-law of Anne Brandstein, Sarah Neiman, Sandy (Alaine) Chaise, George (Ruth) Chaise. Adored by nieces & nephews.
 DICKSTEIN-Anne. At home in NYC in her 87th year. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Morris (Lore) Dickstein and Doris (Sam) Feinberg. Loving grandmother of Jeremy (Jill) and Rachel Dickstein, Jennifer and Joshua Feinberg. May her memory be a blessing.       
 FEIT-Jessie (nee Kossoff). On January 13, nearing her 91st birthday. Mother of Joan Lamport. Grandmother of Harold A. and Joseph N. Great-grandmother of Alex, Jordan, Benjamin and Daniel. Widow of Frank Feit in 1988 and Harold A. Levey in 1940. Private services and interment at Mt. Nebo, Mi
 GOLDMAN - Janis Meresman. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation express our profound condolences to the family of our fellow director, Helaine Barnett on the loss of her beloved sister, Janie and to their father Harry Meresman, one of our founding directors and to our emer
 ITO-Cherel Winett. Born on May 5th, 1947, photographer and filmmaker, died January 10, 1999. Ms. Ito was the widow of musician Teiji Ito, with whom she sometimes performed and with whom she made the widely shown documentary film about Haitian Voudoun, ''Divine Horsemen'', utilizing the foot
 LATINI-Countess Stella De Luca. On January 1, 1999, in her 83rd year. A native of NYC, where she was living at the time of her death, she had resided for 40 years in Rome, Italy, where she and her husband, the late Count Guido Latini di Mogliano, were Directors of the American College of Ro
 MOSKOVITS-Alexander. National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Alexander Moskovits, beloved brother of Anne Lehmann. Mrs. Lehmann and her husband the late Manfred Lehmann, together with their children, Karen Lehmann-Eisner and David Eisner, have played a crucial role in NJOP's 
 PINE-Tillie. On January 15, 1999 in her 103rd year. Wife of the late Nat Pine. Educator, longtime director, Stonybrook Playgroups. Co-author of 27 children's science books. Survived by daughter Mona, sister Mary, nephew Vic.       
 RATHENAU-Marion I. Beloved wife of the late Hans Rathenau. Died November 19, 1998. A wonderful woman. She will be sorely missed.       
 RESNICK-Enid. Peacefully on January 9. Beloved wife of Samuel, loving mother of Robin Amodio of Westport, N.Y. At her request there has been no service.       
 RUBIN-Claire S. On January 14, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Laurie, Mitchell and David. Dear sister of Anne Kolasky and Lee Wall. Cherished grandmother of Sarah and Matthew. Services Sunday, 10 AM, at ''Gutterman's Inc.'' 175 Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centre, LI.
 SULNER-Hanna F. 81. internationally renowned Forensic Document Examiner, passed away peacefully in her home on January 5, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Laszlo, she is survived by her son Andrew, daughter-in-law Agnes, and cherished grandson Laurence. She will be sorely missed by family and
 TRAUTMAN-Ady. Peacefully on January 15, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edgar Trautman. Member Kehilath Jeshurun. Funeral Service Sunday, January 17 1PM at Beth El Cemetery in New Jersey. For info call Plaza Memorial 212-769-4400. TRAUTMAN-Ady. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its 
 WELLS-Gwendolyn. Long-time union activist and leader, died Friday, January 15, of pancreatic cancer. She was 53. At the time of her death, she was the Director of Education and Research for the Office and Professional Employees International Union (OPEIU), AFL-CIO, and the editor of the off
 WILSON-Glenda, on January 15, 1999. Beloved wife of Robin. Loving mother of Siobhan and Christopher. For many years she was a fundraising consultant for UNICEF. Friends may call Sunday and Monday 2-5PM and 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Service Tuesday, 11:30AM at
 WOODS-Virginia. On January 13th, 1999. Beloved sister of Sam and Susanne and niece of Ruth W. Smith. Dear cousin of John Leonard, Warren Huff, Jennifer Woods, Loretta Callahan & Susan Goolian. Memorial service Monday, January 25th, 1:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. 
 Dr. Katherine Bain, a pediatrician who became a high-ranking and an outspoken Washington official concerned with the well-being of infants and children, died on Jan. 10 in a Washington nursing home she entered in October. She was 101 and had lived in Washington since 1940. Dr. Bain'
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam K. On January 16, age 92. Wife of the late Milton B. Freund and of the late Harry Rosenthal. Mother of Matthew and Blanche Freund, and of Harry and Matta Freund. Grandmother of Michael and Sarah Freund, Rebecca Freund, John Freund, Carmel and Franco Kostolitz, Gi
 GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. 54, devoted daughter of Harry Meresman and the late Helen Chafets Meresman. Loving sister of Helaine Meresman Barnett, beloved wife of Michael David Goldman, adoring mother of Melissa Lee Goldman, Lori Goldman Zbar. Cherished aunt, dear niece, treasured friend. Contr
 HOLLINS - Jeannette. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member and wife of Honorary Trustee Lewis Hollins. We extend deepest sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KESTENBERG-Judith. 88 of Sands Point, NY. Died January 16, 1999. Beloved mother of Howard and Janet, grandmother, wife of the late Milton. A woman of strength, integrity and passion devoted to family and to all whom she worked with. Psychiatrist, teacher, researcher dedicated to allay suffe
 SLOBODKIN-Mollie. 88 of Plantation, FL. Passed away on January 16, 1999. She is predeceased by her loving brother Morris. She is survived by her devoted brother Seymour Slobodkin; loving nephews Stephen and Marc Stuart; cherished great-nephews Jamie, Brian and Neil Stuart; devoted greatgrea
 WILSON-Glenda, on January 15, 1999. Beloved wife of Robin. Loving mother of Siobhan and Christopher. For many years she was a fundraising consultant for UNICEF. Friends may call Sunday and Monday 2-5PM and 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Service Tuesday, 11:30AM at
 WOLFMAN-Florence. Beloved wife of Philip. Devoted mother of Harvey and Mark. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Matthew, Andrew and Vanessa. Funeral service, Monday, 11:30 AM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. WOLFMAN - Florence. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns 
 BRAUNSTEIN-Jean, 83. On January 15. Beloved wife of the late Murray, loving mother of Paula and Walter Solyards and Harry and JoAnn Braunstein and Ben and Cindy Braunstein. Adored grandmother of Bonnie, Robert, Susan, Michael, Melissa, Emily, and Andrew. Great grandmother of Jessica, Hannah
 COLETTI - PERUCCA - Gertrude Gretsch. Died at Glen Cove Hospital, January 16. Loving wife of the late Sonio, devoted mother of Jackie, mother-in-law of Nick Drexel and grandmother of Nicholas. She was born in 1923, married to Jack Astor, and then to Sonio. She was a wonderful friend to all 
 EBERHARDT-Ruth E. 94. On January 17, 1999. Surviving are her sister Marguerite Getz and nieces Barbara Butterworth and Carol Sadowski. Burial will be in St. Mark's cemetery in Lewistown, Pa.       
 GODOWSKY-Frances Gershwin (Frankie), on January 18th, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Godowsky, Jr. Loving mother of Alexis Gershwin, Leopold Godowsky III, Georgia Keidan and Nadia Natali. Cherished grandmother of 8. Adoring sister of the late George, Ira and Arthur Gershwin. Service
 GORDON-Anita Robbins, of Bethesda, MD., on January 16, 1999. Beloved wife of Thomas W.D. Wright, mother of Daniel Gordon, Jeremy Gordon and Elizabeth Gordon, grandmother of Alex, Mara, Ben, Josh, Sam and Will. She is also survived by her brother, Allan Robbins of New York City. Relatives & 
 HOPKINS-Bess Ashley House. Died January 16 in Cambridge, MA. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Terry, Mandy, Tom, Jay, Sarah and Matthew. Delighted grandmother of six and dear sister of Bina Beghe-and so loved by all who knew her. Funeral services Christ Episcopal Church, Cambridge MA.    
 KAPSALES-Hareklia. The family of Hareklia (Ricky) Kapsales deeply mourns her passing on January 17 after a short illness. She will be sorely missed by her brothers, sister, their spouses and especially her nieces and nephews and their children. She will also be missed by her colleagues at A
 KIBEL-Lillian (Lili). On January 17, 1999. Beloved wife of Henry, mother of Charles, Adam and Jamie. Grandmother of Cole and Hannah. Trustee of Project Renewal. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., Tuesday, January 19 at 1:30 PM. In lieu of flowers contributions in 
 KOPATZ-Rosa. Beloved aunt of Arlene Aurnou, Marilyn Grapin and Shirley Sarris and several nieces and nephews. Private services were held on January 17th. She will be missed.       
 ROSENBAUM-Gertrude (Trude). Beloved wife of the late Ben Rosenbaum. Devoted mother and grandmother to Ralph, Beatrice and Joel. Passed away January 15, peacefully at 85. A Holocaust survivor, she will be missed. Donations in her memory can be made to Hadassah, of which she was a member for 
 STERN-Joan Shirley Engel. With deep sadness we record Joan's passing in her home on January 18th, in her 79th year, after a long illness. Loving wife of 40 years of Irving Stern; beloved mother of Anthony Marc Benjamin & Marian Lisa Lasday. Joan was a creative, vivacious, passionate woman, 
 SUALL-Joan (nee Parnes). Of Manhattan, on Sunday, January 17, 1999. Wife of the late Bertram Suall. Died of complications relating to emphysema. Joan spent a lifetime fighting for social justice and economic democracy at home and abroad. She played significant roles in many organizations in
 WHITEMAN-Anne Nivin. Longtime resident of NYC, died on January 17, 1999. She is survived by her sister and brother-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Paul H.H. Snyder and her nieces, Nivin Snyder MacMillan and Judith Snyder Kaufman, her grandnieces Anne Nivin Stott and Laura Fenimore Kaufman and nephew J
 Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 and the last of the Gershwin siblings. In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly old
 ALEXANDER-Louise Kirtland, actress, died at 93, in her New York apartment on January 14. She was the widow of A.L. Alexander, star and producer of radio's ''Court of Human Relations''. Ms. Kirtland appeared on Broadway in the ''Waltz of the Toreadors'', ''Tea and Sympathy'' and the revival 
 ANTHONY-Bettina Moran, 64 years old, of Palm Beach, FL, died on Thursday, January 14th, 1999, after an extended illness. Born in New York, New York, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York, NY; Miss Hall's School, Pittsfield, MA; and Bennett Junior College, Millbrook, New Yor
 CARTER-Dorothy J. (Campbell), of Bronxville, NY, on January 18th, 1999. Beloved wife of T. Brian Carter. Loving mother of Pamela Ann Foss and grandmother of Heather and William Foss. Died peacefully in her sleep. Her love and warmth, beauty, courage and spirit will always remain in our hear
 COLETTI - PERUCCA - Gertrude Gretsch. Died at Glen Cove Hospital, January 16. Loving wife of the late Sonio, devoted mother of Jackie, mother-in-law of Nick Drexel and grandmother of Nicholas. She was born in 1923, married to Jack Astor, and then to Sonio. She was a wonderful friend to all 
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. Equitable Bag Company mourns the passing of Miriam FreundRosenthal, beloved mother of our Chairman of the Board, Harry Freund. Our sincere sympathies are extended to her family and many friends. FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. The Officers, Board of Directo
 GODOWSKY-Frances Gershwin (Frankie), on January 18th, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Godowsky, Jr. Loving mother of Alexis Gershwin, Leopold Godowsky III, Georgia Keidan and Nadia Natali. Cherished grandmother of 8. Adoring sister of the late George, Ira and Arthur Gershwin. Service
 HOPKINS-Bess Ashley House. Died January 16 in Cambridge, MA. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Terry, Mandy, Tom, Jay, Sarah and Matthew. Delighted grandmother of six and dear sister of Bina Beghe-and so loved by all who knew her. Funeral services on Friday, January 22, 1PM at Christ Episc
 JONES-Mary Carter. The Officers, Board of Directors and members of the Womens City Club of New York note with sadness the death of our former President, Mary Carter Jones. As a 40+ year member of the WCC, she was an exemplar of those women who cared deeply about their communities and are wi
 KESTENBERG-Judith, M.D. NYU Psychoanalytic Institute mourns the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Judith Kestenberg, M.D. As a Training and Supervising Analyst, she contributed so much to our institute, to her students, and to her patients. Her work with those affected by the Holo
 KIBEL-Lili. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Lili Kibel, dear wife of former Trustee, Henry Kibel, and adored mother of Charles, Adam and Jami. Her steadfast dedication to Riverdale Country School continued after her children had graduated. She remained
 KRAMER - KOEHLER - Pamela, Ph.D. The entire Polytechnic University community mourns the passing of Pamela Kramer-Koehler, an esteemed professor with a 25 year legacy of dedicated service to our institution and its students. Trained in developmental psychology and psycholinguistics, Professo
 LEONARD-Elizabeth deRham, in her 86th year, died peacefully on January 19, 1999. Beloved wife of the late James Richards Leonard, she is survived by three daughters, Natalie L. Vitti, Laura L. Meyers, Virginia L. Bagdady and one son, James R. Leonard, Jr. A memorial service will be held at 
 ROSENTHAL - Grace. Predeceased by her first husband Sam muel B. Herbst. Survived by her husband Abraham Rosenthal; two sons Edward I. and Ronald S. Herbst; two brothers Bert and Harold Ballin; two stepdaughters Ellen Klick and Babette Kulka and five grandchildren. For information call the L
 SCHUR-Fae. On January 18th, 1999, age 91. Wife of the late Aaron Schur. Mother of sons Larry, Joel, Paul & late daughter Susan. Adored grandmother of eleven grandchildren and great grandmother to thirteen great grandchildren. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, 11 AM, Sharon Gardens 
 SLOAN-Adalaide. Of New Hempstead, NY, passed away at Good Samaritan Hospital on January 18, 1999. She was 81 years old. She had been a Rockland County resident her entire life. She was born in Spring Valley to David and Rose Orland. She married Gerald Sloan in New York City on November 17, 
 SUALL-Joan, a longtime leader and former Executive Director of Social Democrats, USA, died Sunday, Jan. 17. Joan will be missed by all those who worked with her in the struggles for greater democracy, civil rights, economic democracy and labor rights. From her friends in Social Democrats, U
 TIMBERLAKE - Dorothy Winnifred (Noon). For 56 years beloved wife of William H. Timberlake, MD. Died of a heart block December 26, 1998, at their home in Eaton Center, N.H. Born August 1, 1916 to Professor Theodore W. Noon and Winnifred E. (Dearborn) Noon. She lived at 10 Appian Way, Cambrid
 WINTER-Bess. The Mohegan Park Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted member, Naomi Cohen. May her entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion in Jerusalem. WINTER-Bess The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our devoted member, 
 Dr. Judith Silberpfennig Kestenberg, a psychoanalyst specializing in child development and the emotional state of Holocaust survivors and their children, died Saturday at her home in Sands Point, N.Y. She was 88. Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30
 Lucille Kallen, the lone woman in the raucous, celebrated and astonishingly untidy group of television writers behind Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows,'' died on Monday at her home in Ardsley, N.Y. She was 76. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Lise Engel. ''Your Show
 ARNOLD-Peggy. On January 19, 1999, of Little Neck, NY. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Arnold. Dear mother of Patricia & Edward. Grandmother of Justin. Memorial service on Saturday 4 pm at the Unitarian Universalist Congregation Shelter Rock, 48 Shelter Rock Road, Manhasset. Donations in he
 BEREZIN-Mae L. Of Aventura, Florida, formerly of NYC. Cherished and beloved aunt, great-aunt & sister. A lifelong friend to many. Mae moved to Florida after a successful career in the fashion industry, where she was president of Mae Littell Fashions. Mae was a remarkable woman who gave gene
 CASS-Bunny. Suddenly on January 19, 1999. Dedicated wife of the late Leonard. Loving mother of Dona Cass-Lautin and Alan. Devoted grandmother of Douglas, Dana, William and Sam. Loyal friend to many. An honorable and gentle lady always, she will be greatly missed. Services private.       
 COLETTI - PERUCCA - Gertrude Gretsch. Died at Glen Cove Hospital, January 16. Loving wife of the late Sonio, devoted mother of Jackie, mother-in-law of Nick Drexel and grandmother of Nicholas. She was born in 1923, married to Jack Astor, and then to Sonio. She was a wonderful friend to all 
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam Dr. We deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, who was revered by us as a figure of paramount importance in the Jewish Community worldwide. She was a former National President of Hadassah and a prominent member of American Friends of the Hebrew U
 GODOWSKY-Frances Gershwin (Frankie), on January 18th, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Godowsky, Jr. Loving mother of Alexis Gershwin, Leopold Godowsky III, Georgia Keidan and Nadia Natali. Cherished grandmother of 8. Adoring sister of the late George, Ira and Arthur Gershwin. Service
 HOPKINS-Bess Ashley House. Died January 16 in Cambridge, MA. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Terry, Mandy, Tom, Jay, Sarah and Matthew. Delighted grandmother of six and dear sister of Bina Beghe-and so loved by all who knew her. Funeral services on Friday, January 22, 1PM at Christ Episc
 KESTENBERG-Judith, M.D. The Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York are saddened by the passing of Judith Kestenberg, M.D. Training analyst and beloved teacher, Dr. Kestenberg will be forever remembered for her pioneer work in helping the children survivors of the
 KIBEL-Lili. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of our dear Board member, Lili Kibel. The Board of Trustees and staff of Project Renewal extend our deepest sympathy to her loving husband, Henry, and to her children and grandchildren. She was a gracious colleague who will be grea
 MALLAH-Louise. Born December 19, 1919, died January 19, 1999. Beloved wife of Sam for 53 years. Adored mother of Lily and Alice, and mother-in-law of Richard and Mike. CHerished grandmother of Charles and wife, Sangeeta, Shari and Laurence, Lisa and husband Stuart, and Seth. Loving great gr
 FARBER-SLAYTON-Viola. Sarah Lawrence College notes with great sorrow the untimely death of Viola Farber, director of the Sarah Lawrence Dance Program. She brought the beauty oand joy of dance to our lives; her integrity and her dignity inspired all of us. A woman of uncommon grace, she will
 Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Saturday at her home in Miami Beach. She was 92 and also had a home in Manhattan. Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained g
 EMMA-Blanche. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President       
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam K. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, mother of Harry and Matta Freund, devoted benefactors of NJOP, where Harry serves as a member of the Board of Directors. Dr. Freund-Rosenthal, a legendary Jewish leader, se
 HOPKINS-Bess Ashley House. Died January 16 in Cambridge, MA. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Terry, Mandy, Tom, Jay, Sarah and Matthew. Delighted grandmother of six and dear sister of Bina Beghe-and so loved by all who knew her. Funeral services on Friday, January 22, 1PM at Christ Episc
 KAUFMANN-Kathleen Fennelly died suddenly on January 19th in her home in Burlington, Mass. She had been a longtime resident of Manhasset and Tuckahoe, New York. She was preceded in death by her husband Richard Kaufmann as well as her sisters Sally Lorenz, Anne Burns, brothers Martin, William
 KESTENBERG-Judith, M.D. The Hidden Child Foundation/ADL mourns the loss of our dear friend and benefactor, Judith Kestenberg. We will always remember her tireless commitment to the plight of children who survived the Holocaust in hiding, and all other child survivors. She validated our pain
 KIBEL-Lili. The Board and staff of Riverdale Neighborhood House extend our deepest sympathy to the Kibel family on the loss of our former Board member and dear, dear friend Lili. We will always remember her warmth and kind devotion to our children. Gloria M. Zambetti, President RNH Board   
 KODZA-Helen, M.D. Native of Kios, Asia Minor. Lifelong resident of New York, NY. Passed away on January 19, 1999. Pathologist and researcher for Columbia University. Survived by her nieces Sophia Scopetea and Ellie Scopetea and her brother-in-law Paraskevas Scopeteas of Athens, Greece. Repo
 PICOLI-Frances W. ''Billie'' formerly of Locust Valley and Old Brookville, NY. Died on January 19, 1999. Beloved wife of Henry, Jr. Loving mother of Peter, Henry, III, William and Pamela Marie. She is also survived by several loving grandchildren. A memorial service will be held 12 noon Sat
 QUINLAN-Doris. Died on January 9, 1999 in NYC while enroute from Switzerland to her home in Hollywood, CA. A memorial service will be announced later.       
 TISHMAN-Rita V., an active leader in Jewish and civic philanthrophies, died of natural causes at her home in Manhattan on Thursday, January 21. She was 91 years old. Her involvement in civic affairs began at an early age. In 1946 she was awarded the Civilian Medal of Merit by President Roos
 TOWNSEND-Mary Elizabeth, 61. Of Hopewell Township, died Friday, January 15 at the Medical Center of Princeton. Born in Kingston, NY, she was a resident of Hopewell Township, NJ. A graduate of Manhattanville College, she entered the Society of the Sacred Heart of Jesus in 1960. During her ca
 GRAY-Mary Lanier. Died January 18; born 1902 in Baltimore, Maryland, daughter of Berwick Bruce Lanier and Emily Parker; wife of the late Dr. Lloyd P. Gray; mother of the late L. Lanier Gray and Mary Emily Gavahan. Survived by her daughter, Elizabeth L. Henson of South Orleans, MA, nine gran
 HOPKINS-Bess Ashley House. Died January 16 in Cambridge, MA. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Terry, Mandy, Tom, Jay, Sarah and Matthew. Delighted grandmother of six and dear sister of Bina Beghe-and so loved by all who knew her. Funeral services on Friday, January 22, 1PM at Christ Episc
 KOPLOW-Freyda (Peck), late of Boynton Beach, FL; Former State Representative & Commissioner of Banks for the Commonwealth of MA; wife of the late Irving; mother of Richard A. Koplow of Lexington, MA., Michael D. Koplow of Woburn, MA. and Kenneth Koplow of Cambridge, MA.; sister of Edna Sulm
 ROSENWALD-Ruth Israels. On January 21, 1999, at her residence in Manhattan, at age 85. Daughter of Henry Goldstein, died 1953, and Elizabeth Traurig Goldstein, died 1985. Widow of Carlos Lindner Israels, died 1969, and William Rosenwald, died 1996. Mother of Michael Jozef Israels. Mother-in
 SCHMITTLINGER-Lois, on January 22, 1999. Devoted daughter, sister and loving aunt. She will be deeply missed by Seymour, Ralph, Nomi, Kate, Victor, Robin, Michael and Eric Smallberg and Maurice Basem. Graveside service Sunday 11AM at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY.       
 TISHMAN-Rita V., an active leader in Jewish and civic philanthrophies, died of natural causes at her home in Manhattan on Thursday, January 21. She was 91 years old. Her involvement in civic affairs began at an early age. In 1946 she was awarded the Civilian Medal of Merit by President Roos
 Susan Strasberg, who at 17 electrified Broadway with her luminous portrayal of the title role of ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and -- with highs and lows professional and private -- went on to a career onstage and in movies, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60 and also had a
 ADELMANN-Penelope Owens, CFA. Of Scarsdale, NY, on January 21, 2000, of an apparent heart attack. Beloved wife of Richard Adelmann, Ms. Adelmann was born Penelope Mildred Owens in Brooklyn, NY, on October 22, 1944. She was daughter of the late Philip and Virginia Owens. Ms. Adelmann graduat
 BAYER-Jean. Died January 20 in her 100th year. Devoted and cherished sister, sister-in-law, aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt. She was very special and we will miss her.       
 BOROCK-Syl. We cherish the memory of our dear friend, Syl. Her warmth, generosity and spirit will be treasured always. To her beloved family, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. Gert and Charles Newman and family       
 BURDMAN-Sylvia. On January 21, 1999. Beloved wife of Murray Burdman, devoted and loving mother of Meryl Levenson & Joan Josephs, loving sister of Shelley Goren, cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Glenn, Erin, and Brittany, great-grandmother of Zack. She had a deep spiritual committmemt to f
 DANK-Barbara Allman. On January 22, 1999. A 1938 graduate of Radcliffe College and the Harvard-Radcliffe Program in Business Administration, she was a pioneer in educating women about new and challenging roles from homemaker to business. A member of the Baldwin, LI School Board for many yea
 EPSTEIN-Dolly Benn. On January 20, 2000. Mourned by family and friends. Funeral private at her request. Contributions may be made in Dolly's name at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center's Society Office, c/o Dr. Richard O'Reilly, 212-639-7972.       
 EPSTEIN-Tillie. On January 23, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Isaac Epstein. Devoted and beloved mother of Irving and Ina Epstein, and Harry and Grace Epstein. Cherished grandmother of Douglas, Jeffrey, Elyse, Allison and Audrey. Her life was an inspiration for values and faith. Grave
 FELD-Isabel. Adored wife of Harold, cherished mother of Stephie and the late Gerry, loving and proud grandmother of Ben Harris, devoted sister of the late Harold Jurman. Isabel was a woman of great charm and wit, and her generosity to many worthy causes enriched the lives of the less fortun
 GEWIRTZMAN-Ethel (nee Kleinhaus). Daughter of the late Samuel and Sarah Kleinhaus. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Henry J. Gewirtzman. Adored and adoring mother of Joan G. Smith and the late Dr. Harold Smith. A righteous and devout woman of grace, intelligence, empathy, fortitude and loyalty.
 GLAUBINGER-Esther. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Esther Glaubinger. We extend profound condolences to her children, Bashie and Sam Nierenberg and Rebecca and Marc Shaffren; to her grandchildren and the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and
 GOMBOS-Maria. Our guardian angel, Maria Gombos, passed away on January 22. We will always love her and remember her. Nita and Aurica       
 HORNICK-Lita. Meredith Monk, the Board of Directors and the staff of The House Foundation for the Arts mourn the passing of our former Board member and loyal supporter. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family.       
 KESTENBERG-Dr. Judith. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University notes with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Judith Kestenberg. Her world renowned collection of interviews of child survivors of the Holocaust is proudly housed at Tel Aviv University's Wiener Library. Our heartfelt condol
 KOHN-Frances R. (nee Rosenbaum). Of Wyckoff, NJ, formerly of White Plains, NY, died January 23, 1999, in her 88th year. She was a 1932 graduate of Smith College, Northhampton, MA, and received her MA at Columbia University. Devoted wife of the late Stephen Van Esen who died in 1947, and Joh
 McGIRR-Margaret L. On Thursday, January 21, 1999, in her 96th year. Loving aunt of Patricia A. Bastoni, John T. McGirr and Edward J. Howard. Viewing was held on Friday at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 149-20 Northern Boulevard, Flushing, New York. Mass of Christian Burial was celebrated o
 ROSENWALD-Ruth Israels. On January 21, 1999, at her residence in Manhattan, at age 85. Daughter of Henry Goldstein, died 1953, and Elizabeth Traurig Goldstein, died 1985. Widow of Carlos Lindner Israels, died 1969, and William Rosenwald, died 1996. Mother of Michael Jozef Israels. Mother-in
 TISHMAN-Rita V. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rita V. Tishman, a dedicated philanthropist and cherished leader in the Jewish community. As someone who devoted her life to Jewish and civic causes, she earned the admiration and 
 WAYNE-Lucia Robinson. Passed away peacefully on January 6, 1999 at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. She will be remembered by friends and artists for her love of the ballet as reflected in her extraordinary film collection. Her films are being preserved by the New York Public Library F
 Betty Bryant, who had such a satisfying childhood career in the backwaters of show business that she never bothered to try to top herself in the Broadway mainstream, died on Jan. 15 at her home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 76 and was recalled as the third generation of a family of sh
 CURTISS-Marie Joy. Professor Emeritus, Syracuse University. Worked in Michigan State Public Schools for 38 years as a music teacher. In 1959 was awarded certificate as ''Choir Master'' by American Guild of Organists from New York, NY. Received her Doctorate in Music from Michigan State Univ
 ROSENWALD-Ruth Israels. On January 21, 1999, at her residence in Manhattan, at age 85. Daughter of Henry Goldstein, died 1953, and Elizabeth Traurig Goldstein, died 1985. Widow of Carlos Lindner Israels, died 1969, and William Rosenwald, died 1996. Mother of Michael Jozef Israels. Mother-in
 TISHMAN-Rita. The Board and staff of The American Federation of Arts extend heartfelt condolences to Margot Linton, Vice President of the AFA on the death of her mother. Mrs. Tishman, a longtime member of The AFA, will be missed by all who knew her. Robert Meltzer, Chairman Jan Mayer, Presi
 WEBSTER-Mary T. Age 72. Of Eleuthera, Bahamas, and Park Ave. Died January 21. Beloved wife of William M. and mother of Melissa and Cecelia. She also leaves a brother, Asher Tourison of Michigan; and sons-in-law, Jay Patrick and Justin Roberts. Services will be private. Donations may be made
 WILLIAMS-Dorothy H. On January 23, 1999. Survived by her loving family. Reposing at Crestwood Memorial Chapel, 33 Spring Street, NYC, until Tuesday.       
 Virginia Verrill, the on-screen singing voice of some of Hollywood's most famous leading ladies and later a popular radio star, died on Jan. 18 at the Mayview Nursing Home in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Raleigh. Ms. Verrill, born in Santa Monica, Calif., was a child of Hol
 BELTZER-Beverly (nee Blumenthal). Was a jewel, a diamond, a selfless, loving, caring and compassionate human being - a ''mensch'', who gave her heart and soul to her family, her friends, her colleagues. To her ''one and only'' child, Margery, whose life was intertwined with hers so adoringl
 BONFELD-Adele. Beloved mother of Lowell, of blessed memory, doting grandmother of Mara and Marc, affectionate mother-in-law of Harriet, steadfast wife, daughter, sister, and aunt, she was truly a woman of valor. BONFELD-Adele. Aunt Adele persevered, carrying on despite the tragic lo
 BORRI-Catarina, of NYC, passed away peacefully on January 24th, 1999 at JFK Hospital in Edison, NJ. Born in Biella, Pr. Vercelli, Italy in 1903, is survived by her only son, Tullio, of Metuchen, NJ, 3 grandchildren, Gregg Borri and Claire Hallock of NYC, Catherine Lyness of Summit, NJ, and 
 BOWIE-Effie Belle Rogers. On January 25, 1999. Beloved mother of Faith Bowie, and wife of the late Letham. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street Thursday January 28th at 9:45 A.M. Interment to follow at Woodlawn Cemetery. Mrs. Bowie, an artist, graduated from Tex
 ELEGANT - Moira Clarissa. Slipped her bonds in peace, on January 20, 1999. In memory of her joyous life, donations to cancer research or animal welfare, please. Faxes: 610-355-0265.       
 GOLDHIRSH-Wendy (Martz) entered into rest, January 24, in Manchester-by-the-Sea, Massachusetts. Beloved wife of Bernard A. Goldhirsh. Dear daughter of Lawrence and Rebecca Martz of Brooklyn; devoted mother of Elizabeth Goldhirsh and Benjamin Goldhirsh both of Manchester-bythe-Sea. Loving si
 LINK-Eleanor Irene Higgins, age 83 of Spring Lake, New Jersey on January 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late George Link, Jr. Devoted sister of the late Anne & Catherine Higgins. Funeral at 8:30 A.M. Thursday, from O'Brien Funeral Home, Highway 35 at New Bedford Road, Wall, New Jersey. Mass 
 MESSING-Tola. Died January 24 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Beloved wife of Leon for 60 years. Loving mother of Lisette Nayor, Micki Joseph and Florence Messing and devoted grandmother of David, Daniel, Benjamin, Philip and Marc. Also mourned by her sisters, Zosia and Annette and her niece, Christ
 MINSKOFF-Lillian. Loving mother of Amy, Steven and Demetria, cherished grandmother of Matthew. Funeral services at 11:45 am Tuesday at ''The Riverside'' 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. MINSKOFF-Lillian. Park East Synagogue and the Sam and Esther Minskoff Cultural Center mourn the passing
 REDMOND-Lida Schock, died at her home in Glen Cove, NY, on January 25, after a short illness. She was the wife of Geraldyn Livingston Redmond. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1926, she attended the Community School and Mary Institute there and graduated from the Foxcroft School in Middlebur
 ROSENWALD-Ruth Israels. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Ruth Israels Rosenwald, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. She was the beloved wife of William Rosenwald, a founder of United Jewish Appeal and for
 SILVER-Ethel. Died peacefully at 91 on January 24, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Judge Simon Silver for 66 years, she leaves her devoted sons, Arthur and Roger, dear sister, Muriel Arkoff and brother, Irving Leibowitz, and loving grandchildren, Valerie, Diane and Larry. Graveside funeral. 
 YELON-Rose. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Nat. Devoted mother of Edward and Stephen and daughters-in-law Arlene and Frances. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Services were held Monday. Contributions in her memory to Temple Sholom of Flatbush.       
 SCHWENK-Jeanne Elizabeth. January 26, 1969. Thirty years ago her death ended our love story and initiated a fictional one. Those of you who remember her, please join me in recalling her vivaciousness and warmth. Ken Schwenk       
 Sarah (Sadie) Delany, the last of the storied Delany sisters, died peacefully in her sleep at age 109 yesterday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y., spokesmen for her family said. She was the oldest survivor of one of America's most remarkable families, the daughter of a man who had b
 BOWIE-Effie Belle Rogers. On January 25, 1999. Beloved mother of Faith Bowie, and wife of the late Letham. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street Thursday January 28th at 9:45 A.M. Interment to follow at Woodlawn Cemetery. Mrs. Bowie, an artist, graduated from Tex
 DURBIN-Elizabeth. 62. Of NYC and Shelter Island. Suddenly, on January 25. Beloved wife of Seymour Weissman. Loving grandmother of Zachary, Vanessa, Hannah, Jenna, Kyle, Laura and Nicholas, stepmother of Judy, Eric, David and Adam. Courageously outspoken in defense of the vulnerable, humanis
 GANZ-Sally. Of Yonkers, N.Y. and Boynton Beach, Florida. Passed away January 26. She is survived by her husband of 52 years Irving, her children Robert (Linda), Karen Ganz (Jeff Harris), two loving grandchildren Jennifer Ganz (Jeff Durand) and Kevin Ganz and a brother Joel Gennett. Services
 HOFFMEISTER-Anne (Schaetzel), age 87, formerly of New York City, died on January 23, 1999 in Plymouth, NH. The widow of Theodore H.C. Hoffmeister. Sister of Helene Genzmer. Also survived by one nephew. She was the administrative assistant to the Dean of Students at Hunter College, until ret
 JARRETT-Barbara. 84. Died peacefully on January 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Robert E., cherished mother of Renne Bilson, Jan Jarrett Grimaldi, and Denise Jarrett Dow; loving grandmother of Drew Stauffer, Todd, Jonathan and Alison Samter, Gavin and Keith Dow. She was the owner of Jarr
 JAUL-Robert. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Brandt, Steinberg & Lewis, LLP mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Bob Jaul. Our deepest sympathy to Claudia and her entire family. Hubert J. Brandt Richard A. Steinberg Willa I. Lewis       
 KASKEL-Ruth Ann. On January 26, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Frederick & Jonathan. Loving grandmother of Kimberly, Elizabeth, Jessica and Erica. Dear sister of Richard and the late Selma. Cared for by the devoted Beverly. Services are private. Contributions may b
 PILCH-Todd, M.D. The Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation wishes to send our deepest condolences to our Board member, Susan Friedman on the tragic and untimely death of her brother, Dr. Todd Pilch.       
 PINKUS-Nettie E. Formerly of Sunnyside, Queens. January 25, 1999 in her 96th year. Wife of the late Philip J. Pinkus, mother of late Ellen Bateman. Survived by son, Daniel, grandchildren, Karen and Michael Pinkus, Judy and David Bateman and greatgrandchildren, Michael and Matthew.       
 QUINN-Margaret Mary. January 25th, 1999. Beloved daughter of Donald & Margaret Quinn. Loving sister of Diane, Eileen, Mary, Denis and James. Devoted aunt of ten nieces, three nephews and one grandniece. She was the Principal at St. Vincent Ferrer High School, NYC. Friends may call at the Ab
 REDMOND-Lida Schock, died at her home in Glen Cove, NY, on January 25, after a short illness. She was the wife of Geraldyn Livingston Redmond. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1926, she attended the Community School and Mary Institute there and graduated from the Foxcroft School in Middlebur
 SCHNITZER-Hilde (Maier), of Montclair, NJ, died on January 26, 1999. Beloved wife of Rabbi Jeshaia Schnitzer, cherished mother of Rabbi Jonathan and Beverly Schnitzer of Rockville, Maryland, and Lisa and Rabbi Richard Plavin of Manchester, Connecticut, caring Oma of Aviva, Ariel, Shira, Ila
 WIATRIC-Hannah. On January 26, 1999, age 96. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Jerry, Sylvia Berland and Frank Brill. Dear mother-in-law of the late Jack Berland. Loving grandmother, great-grandmother and adored aunt. She will be missed.       
 DURBIN-Elizabeth. 62. Of NYC and Shelter Island. Suddenly, on January 25. Beloved wife of Seymour Weissman. Loving grandmother of Zachary, Vanessa, Hannah, Jenna, Kyle, Laura and Nicholas, stepmother of Judy, Eric, David and Adam. Cherished daughter of Marjorie. Sister of Jocelyn and Geoffr
 GOLDBERG-Ruth. Loving and loved wife of the late Bernard Goldberg. Mother of Barbara and Herman Engelberg, and Richard Goldberg. Grandmother of Larry and Judy Engelberg, Wendy Engelberg, Amy & Joseph Cigliano, Suzanne Goldberg, and Paula Ettelbrick and Andrew Goldberg, great-grandmother of 
 GORDON-Leah. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her husband, Robert, and the family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 KAPLAN-Martha. The officers and members of the Auxiliary of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute sadly mourns the passing of our longtime friend, Martha Kaplan. Martha was a dedicated member of the Auxiliary, devoting countless hours toward the well-being of the pediatric p
 KIRSCHENBAUM - Zelda Celia. (nee Rosenblum) November 4, 1899-January 26, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Gabriel Kirschenbaum. Devoted mother of Deby Salama and Dr. J. Michael Kirschenbaum (Paulenne). Cherished grandmother of Michael Foster Shapiro (Stacey) and Sasha Aelise Salama, Lisa,
 LINK-Eleanor Irene Higgins, 83, of Spring Lake, N.J. Formerly of New York, New York, and Tenafly, N.J. Died Sunday, January 24, 1999 at her home. Mrs. Link was pre-deceased by her husband George ''Judge'' Link, who died in 1980. She was also pre-deceased by her sisters Anne Higgins and Cath
 QUINN-Margaret Mary. January 25th, 1999. Beloved daughter of Donald & Margaret Quinn. Loving sister of Diane, Eileen, Mary, Denis and James. Devoted aunt of ten nieces, three nephews and one grandniece. She was the Principal at St. Vincent Ferrer High School, NYC. Friends may call at the Ab
 ROTHSCHILD-Zelda. We mourn the loss of a dear friend who deeply cared about the State of Israel and the future of its children. As a founder of the hospital, together with her husband Arthur, she made a vital difference to the people of Jerusalem and throughout Israel. May the family be com
 SCHNITZER-Hilde M. Congregation Shomrei Emunah in Montclair, NJ mourns the passing of our ''Rebetzin of distinction'', Hilde M. Schnitzer. Her devotion to the Congregation, to the community, and to Judaism's highest principles is her legacy for generations to come. Shirley R. Grill, Pres. M
 STRONG-Helen W. Widow of Dexter K. Strong, former Head of Pomfret School, died January 23 in Portland, OR. She had lived in Seattle, Hansville, WA., and Portland, OR since 1951 and is survived by many loving children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Memorials may be sent to Pomfret S
 BRACKLEY-Patricia A. (nee Sharkey), on January 28, 1999 at her residence after a long illness. Graduate of Purdue University, recipient of the Paul Harris Fellow from the International Rotary Foundation, and active in horticulture work at the national and state level. Beloved wife of Albert
 EDWARDS-Ethel. Ethel Edwards, an artist, friend, and teacher, died on January 24, 1999, at her home in the Gainsborough Studios, New York City. A native of New Orleans, Ethel attended Newcomb College, where she met her husband, of 62 years, the artist Xavier Gonzalez who passed away in 1993
 Rita Valentine Tishman, a New York benefactor of Jewish and civic causes, died on Jan. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91. She was decorated by President Franklin D. Roosevelt for leading the New York State women's division of the War Bond drive in the 19
 BARATTA-Marylou. Local 137 and The Service Trade Association of Greater New York mourn the loss of our dear friend Marylou Baratta, proprietor of Marylou's restaurant. We will always remember her compassion and generosity. Our sincerest and deepest sympathies are with Marylou's family and m
 CHAPMAN-Carroll Ferguson. , 90. Of Mount Kisco, NY died January 27th at Phelps Memorial Hospital, Tarrytown, New York, after a short illness. She is survived by her daughter, Diana Kamilli of Tuscon, AZ., and grandchildren, Daniel Chapman of Pleasantville, NY, and Robert Kamilli, two great 
 CHO-Suzie S.. Died suddenly on January 25, 1999 in Belize in her 34th year. Wife of Marc Lambrechts, daughter of Edward and June Cho. She is also survived by her sister Juli Cho and her brother Joseph Cho. Calling hours at the Cho-Lambrechts residence, 158 South Oxford Street, Brooklyn, Sun
 GOLDSTEIN-Arlene. January 28, 1999. Beloved aunt. She fought tirelessly on behalf of the healthcare consumer as a member ofthe State Board of Nursing, NYC Health and Hospital Corporation Board, Bellevue Community Board and NENA Health Council. Her work exemplified selfless public service, i
 HORNER-Rebecca Jordan S.. It is with sorrow that we note the passing of a woman whose life spanned nearly a century. As the mother of Mrs. Thomas A. Saunders III, a devoted and well-respected member of our Board of Trustees, she is included in our prayers as a member of the hospital's exten
 LEVY-RUBIN--Donna, M.D.. The attorneys and staff of Mazur, Carp & Rubin, P.C., deeply mourn the sudden and untimely passing of Donna Levy-Rubin, beloved wife of our esteemed member, Gary L. Rubin, and mother of Adam and Zachary. She was a brilliant and dedicated physician who will be rememb
 LUNDBERG-Helen., 83. Died on Thursday, January 28, 1999 at her home in Briarcliff Manor, NY. Longtime resident of Briarcliff Manor. She was born in Manhattan and had been a longtime member of the Junior League. She was the wife of the late Nils A. Lundberg, whom she married on January 16, 1
 McCANN-Helen M.. The Barnard College Community mourns the death of Helen M. McCann, class of 1940, and Director of Admissions at the College from 1952 until 1977. To College counselors and school heads across the country, and to twenty-five classes of Barnard Alumnae, the name of Helen McCa
 ROSENKRANTZ - Frances. On January 28, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted sister-inlaw of Terry Slade. Loving mother of Roger and the late Josi. Dear sister of Sophie Bettoja. Adoring grandmother of Adam, Joshua and Kurt. Cherished aunt of Edward and Judy, Richard, Michael and Do
 TEETER-J. Sarah (Friedman), 28, of Franklin, Mass and Cresskill, NJ. Deeply loved and loving wife of Joshua. Cherished daughter of Elizabeth Friedman. She fought and overcame so many road blocks placed in her path by a terrible disease with courage and humor. Sarah's concern for others was 
 Ruth Rawlings Mott, who oversaw an array of charitable organizations, died on Monday at her home in Flint, Mich. She was 97. Mrs. Mott was the widow and a distant cousin of Charles Stewart Mott, a founder of the General Motors Corporation, financier and philanthropist. With him she 
 Joan Engel Stern, a ballet dancer, died on Jan. 18 at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was cancer, the family said. Born Shirley Engel in Baltimore, she was known as Joan Engel when she became a professional dancer. In 1945, she became a founding member of a tour
 Margaret Wentworth Owings, a California artist and conservationist who fought for the survival of sea otters, sea lions, mountain lions and other wild creatures, died on Jan. 21 at Wild Bird, her clifftop home above the Pacific in Big Sur, Calif. She was 85. The cause was heart fail
 ARLUCK-Wendy Jean. 43. Died January 27, 1999 with her family at her side. Beloved wife, partner and companion of Paul Badalucca, adored daughter of Arthur and the late Wanda, cherished ''kid'' sister of Curtis, treasured friend of Betty, Lisa, cousin Lori and so many more. Services are on S
 AUGUST-Anne Atkatz. Of West Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of NYC, passed away on January 28, 1999. She is survived by her loving children: Susan (Frederic) Rubinstein and Neil (Joan) August. She is also survived by her sister Leah Brecher. She will be lovingly remembered by her grandchildre
 BARATTA-Marylou. Local 137 and The Service Trade Association of Greater New York mourn the loss of our dear friend Marylou Baratta, proprietor of Marylou's restaurant. We will always remember her compassion and generosity. Our sincerest and deepest sympathies are with Marylou's family and m
 BOGORAD-Henrietta. Beloved wife of Seymour. Dear mother to daughters Priscilla Fadale and Gary, Susan Gordon and David, Nina Palmer and Jonathan, Bess Amione and John, and precious grandmother to Jonathan, Daniel, Andrew, Michael, Sarah, Brett, Sammy and Emily. She enriched us. She was the 
 CHAPMAN-Carroll Ferguson, 90. Of Mount Kisco, NY died January 27th at Phelps Memorial Hospital, Tarrytown, New York, after a short illness. She is survived by her daughter, Diana Kamilli of Tuscon, AZ, and grandchildren, Daniel Chapman of Pleasantville, NY, and Ann and Robert Kamilli, two g
 CHO-Suzie S. Died suddenly on January 25, 1999 in Belize in her 34th year. Wife of Marc Lambrechts, daughter of Edward and June Cho. She is also survived by her sister Juli Cho and her brother Joseph Cho. Calling hours at the Cho-Lambrechts residence, 158 South Oxford Street, Brooklyn, Sund
 DICKER-Esther. Age 93, on January 30, 1999, of Clifton, NJ. Predececeased by her husband Max Saul in 1952. Loving mother of Mildred and Morris Liebhaber and Harriet and Eugene Seidner. Beloved aunt and great-aunt. Devoted grandmother of Karen, Maxine, Elyse, Martha and Robin. Cherished grea
 MARIENBERG-Stella. 87, at her home, January 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Leon Marienberg. M.D. Devoted mother of William Marienberg and Evelyn S. Marienberg-Miceli, M.D., and loving grandmother of Lauren Miceli and Max Marienberg. Donations may be made in memory of Stella to ''SBF/Leo
 NAGELSMITH - Bernice. Died peacefully at home on January 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis Nagelsmith. Loving mother of Barbara Nagelsmith and Carole Greenberg. Grandmother of Danna Greenberg and the late Michael Jon Greenberg, great-grandmother of Micaela Tobin and a caring friend. 
 OPPENHEIMER-Janice Wolk. We greatly mourn the passing of Janice Wolk Oppenheimer, beloved mother of Carol Kurtz and mother-in-law of Michael S. Kurtz, Treasurer of the American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU). Both Carol and Michael are dedicated supporters of AFHU and of the Lauten
 PESKIN-Esther Zacharevitz. On January 28, 1999 in her 102nd year, of Passaic, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Louis, mother of Arthur Peskin and Doris Levine, grandmother of Sally Anne Levine and Andrea Ostroff, great-grandmother of Arlene and Jennifer. Services today 1PM, ''GuttermanM
 RABIN-Frances. Beloved wife of the late William Rabin, married for 61 years, passed away on January 29, 1999. A longtime resident of Teaneck and Fort Lee, NJ, and Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Frances leaves behind daughters Maxine and Arlene, as well as loving grandchildren Jeffrey, Robin, Monic
 SAYOVITZ-Irene Gertzman. 89, on January 29, 1999, at home, 18446 Aberdeen Rd., Jamaica Estates, NY. Devoted wife of David. Beloved mother of Carol Brennan and Paula Beck. Adored grandmother of Richard Beatty, Joanna Maddock, Bonnie Roston and Wendy Sauer. Proud greatgrandmother of Sarah, An
 SCHNEIDER - Phyllis. Beloved daughter of the late Rose and Ben; cherished sister of the late Robert, Eleanor and Shirley; devoted and adored aunt of Patty, Mimi, Janie, Michael, Sharon and Randi; dear great and grand-aunt and selfless friend. We were all her first priority and our lives wer
 TERWILLIGER - Roberta. Of Bronxville, NY. Died January 29 at age 91. Devoted wife of the late Charles Terwilliger and beloved mother of Anne T. Olsen of Laramie, WY, and Robert Terwilliger of Coconut Grove, FL. An active volunteer in Planned Parenthood, Radcliffe in Westchester, the Urban L
 WOLFF-Arlene G. Beloved wife of the late Richard. Devoted mother of Rina Schnaufer and Adam Wolff. Cherished grandmother of Ryan and Jacob. Loving daughter of Frieda Gold. Dear sister of Richard Gold. Proud of her infectious disease research, her zeal for science and her published accomplis
