 BROWN--Stefanie Lynn. Age 39. Beloved wife of David Brown. Adored mother of Emma Jo and Nikki Leigh. Cherished daughter of Diane Steiner and Paul Bernstein. Sister of David Bernstein. Daughter-in-law of Miriam Brown and Matt Brown. Stefanie's radiance, warmth, generosity and lust for life w
 BURKHART--Diane. A fine individual and wonderful friend, died in her home in New York City on January 18, 2004. Diane was retired after a long career at Young & Rubicam. Larry Nunno       
 EIGERMAN--Leah G. Died peacefully at 95 on January 23, 2004. Beloved by the family she created and numerous colleagues and friends. She had a full and honored teaching career and in retirement kept on at the Institute of Retired Professionals of The New School. Wife for 64 years of the late
 FISHER--Jodi. We mourn the loss of our wonderful young daughter. Our jewel. Our treasure. You will forever live in our mind and hearts. We will keep your legacy alive in your three special children. We thank the hundreds who were touched by your love and affection and who join us in mournin
 FLASTER--Dorothy, 89, of Lake Worth, FL passed away on January 28, 2004, peacefully at home in the loving presence of her daughter Wendie Teya, devoted caregiver Noreen Williams, and expert care of the Hospice of Palm Beach County Green Team. Married 61 years to the late Seymour Flaster (20
 FRIEDMAN--Rosalind Steinberger, of San Diego, formerly of NYC. Loving wife of Mark Tomson. A woman of tremendous heart, generosity and humor. Will be greatly missed by family and friends. Memorial contributions may be made in her name to the June Friedman Memorial Fund, payable to the Ft. C
 KURZWEIL--Pauline. 95, of Margate, FL., on January 29, 2004. Wife of the late Leon; courageous mother of Martin (Edith), loving grandmother of Larry (Rhonda), David (Debbie), Steven (Stacey) and proud great grandmother of Jordan, Marc, Matthew, Emily, Madison, Caroline. Lifelong companion o
 LIPKIN--Carol Fraenkel. Died January 19, 2004, at Emerson Hospital in Concord, MA, at the age of 89. She was a graduate of Hunter College and of the New York School of Social Work. After working at the Community Service Society, she went to the City College of New York, where she was a prof
 PERKS--Dora Maxwell. On January 26, 2004. She is survived by her children, Elsa, Saul and Les and grandchildren, Nathaniel, Julie, Berril and Sarosha.       
 POWER--Targe. Of Gulf Stream, Florida on January 28, 2004 at the age of 98. Wife of the late John F. Power. Mother of Mary, John Jr., Patricia, Margaret, Catherine, James and Elizabeth. Grandmother of 28 and great grandmother of 31. Contributions in her honor may be made to St. Rita's Churc
 ROSTOW--Edna, died in Portugal on Thursday, January 22, 2004, at the age of 90. She was born in New Haven and lived a fruitful life as a psychotherapist, government official, editor, author and advocate for the admission of women to Yale. She was married for 70 years to Eugene V. Rostow, wh
 RUSSO--Serafina, 92, died peacefully at home, January 28, 2004. Known as Sally and Sadie to friends and family. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas L. Russo, M.D., mother of Maria T. Russo and D. Nicholas Russo; sister of Philomena DiIorio. Retired kindergarten teacher of PS 32, Queens. Her u
 SPECTOR -- Eleanor nee Friedman, 91, on January 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Reuben Spector, Q.C. of Montreal. Devoted mother of Linda Spector of New York City and Barbara Berlin of Montreal. Grandmother of Mark Pariser of Los Angeles. Donations in her memory may be made to Cabrini Ho
 STERN -- Elisabeth (Schon feld). 90 years old, died on January 30, 2004. Beloved wife of the lated Fred E. Stern, mother of Margie and the late Richard. Services Monday, 11:30 am, at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, NY. STERN--Elisabeth. Temple Beth El of G
 TANDY--Mildred Ficken died in her sleep January 23. Born February 19, 1920 in Manhattan where her family had lived since the 1840s, she grew up on Riverside Drive while attending the Barnard School for Girls and Manhattanville College. She married Russell H. Tandy Jr. in 1942 and together t
 WECHSLER -- Cecile, M.D. Died November 26, 2003, at 96. Born in Poland, tended displaced French Jewish children underground during WWII. In the U.S. maintained a busy medical practice until her death. An astute, devoted physician who took life's responsibilities seriously. Nancy Green, Rich
 WHITE--Anne Burpee, 71, of Atlantic Beach, FL died on January 28. She was the daughter of W. Atlee Burpee, Jr. and Jeannetta D. Burpee of Philadelphia, PA. She graduated from the Agnes Irwin School and Bryn Mawr College. She is survived by four children and seven grandchildren. A memorial s
 ZINDER--Marilyn. 75, wife of Norton, mother of Stephen and Michael, mother-in-law of Chris and Charlotte, and adoring grandmother of Daniel, Ben, John, Adam and Matt. Lifelong New Yorker, graduate of Hunter High School, case worker at the NYC Department of Consumer Affairs, ''den mother'' f
 Eleanor Holm Whalen, an Olympic swimming champion who was expelled from the 1936 Berlin Games in a headline-making drinking episode that brought her a second career as a slightly notorious but glamorous show-business figure, died Saturday at her home in Miami. The cause was kidney f
 Mary A. Gardner, a journalism professor whose teaching had a strong influence on contemporary journalism in Mexico and Latin America, died Jan. 22 in East Lansing, Mich., her sister-in-law, Donna Gardner, said. She was 83. Dr. Gardner's influence in Mexico stemmed from her connectio
 BURKES--Adele (nee Mishkin). 85, died on February 1. Devoted wife of 65 years to Albert. Beloved mother of Susan Baron, Dr. Lynn and Dr. Jeffrey Burkes. Dear motherin-law of Susan. Loving grandmother of Jennifer and Michael Leifer, and Elizabeth and Katherine Burkes. Services Tuesday, Febru
 LEAVENWORTH -- Roberta Canale. Of Los Angeles, CA. Devoted mother of twin daughters, Alexandra and Nicole, and beloved widow of Randolph Leavenworth III, who preceded her in death in 1999. She is survived by her mother Eleanor Canale, sister Anne Demicco, brotherin - law Robert Demicco, nie
 PILCZ--Hana. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Hana Pilcz, beloved mother of Maleta Pilcz. We extend sincere condolences to Maleta and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 TYSON -- Yvonne Lorgnie. Age 81, of Basking Ridge, NJ, formerly of Mendham, NJ, on Wednesday, January 28, 2004. Wife of David Tyson. Mother of Dr. Geoffrey Tyson of Vancouver and Seattle, WA, and Alan Tyson and his wife Donna of New Vernon, NJ. Grandmother of five grandchildren. She is also
 UMANS--Ann M. (nee Buxbaum). On January 31, at the age of 78. Beloved wife of the late Maurice (Bud). Loving mother of Dorothy, Jacqueline, Martin and mother-inlaw of Michael and Pam. Adored grandmother of Craig, Eric, Max and Cody. Memorial service in celebration of her life on Tuesday, 11
 ZINDER--Marilyn. We are deeply saddened at the loss of our beloved sister, sisterin-law, aunt and great-aunt. We will miss her impeccable taste, generosity of spirit and sage advise. Our hearts go out to all those she touched. She will be greatly missed. Adrienne, Jay, Eric, Amy, Judy, Trac
 Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a classical repertory actress who won critical acclaim for her many roles Off Broadway, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Newcastle, Me. She was 77 and formerly lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Dorothy Lee, a friend and her executor. 
 Barbara Gamarekian, a former reporter on the arts and Washington society for The New York Times who was previously a press aide in the Kennedy and Johnson White Houses, died yesterday in Washington. She was 78. The cause was peritoneal cancer, said a niece, Rachel Hughes. Ms
 ANGELERI--Lucy, 81, of Forest Hills, NY, lost her battle with cancer on Sunday, February 1, 2004. She is survived by her beloved husband of 49 years Carl Angeleri, sons Michael Mendle of Tuscaloosa, AL., and Alvin Mendle of Fairfield, CA, stepdaughter Sandra Vogel of Natick, MA, sister Mary
 CONDELLES--Christine. The Board of Directors and the Staff of the League Treatment Center mourn the passing of Christine Condelles and express their sympathy to her family on their loss. Mrs. Condelles was a courageous woman, a wonderful mother, and a warm and loving grandmother. She is sur
 FROWLEY--Allison, 22, died suddenly on February 1st, 2004. A graduate of Lehigh University in 2003, she was preparing to apply to dental school and pursue a career in pediatric dentistry. Her death is mourned by her most devoted, proud and loving parents Norman Frowley and Sandra Frowley, l
 MACKAY--Gwendolyn Rose, died peacefully at the end of her 96th year at home in Locust Valley on February 1, 2004. Loving wife of the late John William Mackay. Devoted mother of Michael, MaryRose and Patrick. Beloved grandmother of seven. Caring great-grandmother of six. Funeral services 11A
 MUSHKAT--Ruth. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Ruth Mushkat. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 PHILIPPS--Helen. On January 30, 2004 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Peter and mother-in-law of Nancy. Devoted grandmother of Robert (Mari), Rippy (Phyllis), Michael (Shari) and Suzanne (Giuseppe). Adoring greatgrandmother of Mark, Harrison, Adam, Paige, 
 RAYBIN--Shirley. Died February 1, 2004 at age 86. Teacher at Lincoln H.S. Counselor at Dewey H.S. Survived by Louis, her beloved husband of 58 years, their children and grandchildren.       
 SNYDER -- Eleanor M., passed away on February 1 at the age of 88. A beloved mother and devoted wife, she was predeceased by her husband of 47 years, Philip. She is survived by her three sons, Philip, Jr., Robert & Peter and her eight grandchildren. Visitation will take place on Wednesday, F
 BERLIN--Suzin. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Suzi. Adored friend, aunt and sister. An inspirational presence, her strength, intelligence, generosity and love will be dearly missed by her relatives and friends. Services Wednesday, February 4th at 11:45AM at ''The Rive
 EINSTEIN KAMERMAN -Fanny. Daughter-in-law of prohibition agent Izzy Einstein. Loving mother of Roberta Mayerhoff, Isabel Rosenstein & Judith Tuerack. Devoted grandmother of nine, adoring great grandmother of 17. She will always live in our hearts.       
 HOLIBER--June Rose (nee Rosenfeld). Beloved mother of Heather Ann Gerson (Martin) and Joan Sari Silverman. Proud and adoring grandmother to Dr. Henry Gerson, Melissa Gerson, Jon Silverman and Julie Silverman. Devoted, independent, creative. She will always be remembered with love.       
 KAYES--Cecily Elmes, who served on active duty as one of the youngest members of the Women's Air Force Service Pilots during World War II, died in her residence in Manhattan on Monday, February 2nd. She had recently undergone surgery for colon cancer that had spread to other vital organs of
 MACKAY--Gwendolyn Rose, died peacefully at the end of her 96th year at home in Locust Valley on February 1, 2004. Loving wife of the late John William Mackay. Devoted mother of Michael, MaryRose and Patrick. Beloved grandmother of seven. Caring great-grandmother of six. Funeral services 11A
 MUSHKAT--Ruth. Wife of Herbert, mother of Andrea and Valerie. Grandmother of Lindsay and Matthew. Mother-in-law of Naoyo Yoda and Peter Hirsh. A very beautiful woman who was loved by everyone that knew her. Mushkat-Hirsh-Yoda familiy       
 STANKARD--Catherine A. It is with deepest sympathy and our fondest memories that we mark the passing of our beloved Catherine ''Kitty'' Stankard. Her 45 years of devoted service to the members of the Lawrence Beach Club will remain in the hearts and minds of all who knew her. She was a true
 M. M. Kaye, the British writer and illustrator, who wrote ''The Far Pavilions,'' a luxuriant evocation of her upbringing in the India of the British Raj, died last Thursday. She was 95 and lived in Suffolk, England. Her death was announced Tuesday by her New York agents, Harold Ober
 BRAUNSTEIN--Nora Gatow. Beloved wife of the late Victor Braunstein and loving mother of David Braunstein. She was President of Achilles Construction Company for the past 30 years. Services 11:30AM today, Sinai Free Synagogue, Fleetwood NY.       
 DUBNER--Anita, died suddenly on February 3, 2004, at age 72. Wife of the late Sidney Dubner, mother of Paul and Margie (Mermelstein) and Sandy and Leslie (Scharoff). Grandmother of Seth, Mimi, Stephanie and Adam. Sister of Liela Fleischman. Her memory will live in the hearts of all who knew
 HERTZ--Rose, died February 3. Loving and devoted wife of Rudy, cherished mother of Danielle Ellis and Paul Hertz. Loving sister of Ruth Heydemann and adored Omi of Yakov, Miriam, Max, Sam, Zacky and Zoe. We will miss her dearly. Services at Parkside Chapel, 98-60 Queens Boulevard, Rego Park
 LASH--Trude. The Board of Directors and Staff of Citizens' Committee for Children of NY (CCC) mourn the passing of Trude W. Lash and extend our condolences to her family, friends and the colleagues who share our deep respect for and awe of her lifelong commitment to New York's children and 
 MACKAY--Gwen. The members of the Board of Trustees of Old Westbury Gardens express sadness at the loss of our longtime and dear friend, Gwen Mackay, who helped form the Gardens in its earliest years and continued to serve on our Board until her death. We wish to offer sympathy to her family
 MELNICK -- Evelyn. We mourn her death at age 95. Devoted wife of the late Julius Melnick. She is survived by her children Michael and Barbara Segal, her brother Leonard Rockower, five grandchildren, five greatgrandchildren and many nieces and nephews. She was our beloved matriarch and role 
 STERN--Rabbi Tibor. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our distinguished member, Mrs. Tiki Lyons. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 FORD--Martha M., on February 4, 2004, of Bellerose Village, NY. Beloved wife of the late Robert H. Ford. Loving mother of Susan FordGoldschein and William Goldschein, Martha Jaeckle and John Kearney, Robert Jr. and Annette Ford, David and Debra Ford. Devoted grandmother of Christopher, Wayn
 HARRIS--Jeff Steve. The warmest, sweetest, brilliant, generous man who called us in-laws. We were much more than that. My precious daughter, Judy, has lost her dear husband and we share her grief. Love, Ruth and Irving Shatz       
 HEHMEYER -- Sheila. The American Friends of Sadler's Wells Theatre mourns the loss of its Founder and leader, and treasured friend. We will miss her guidance and inspiration. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family and friends.       
 HEWITT--Ann Fraser. Ann Arbor, MI, January 28, 2004. A crusader for human equality, a supporter of the arts, an advocate for those who learn differently, and a woman who practiced more than she preached. While living in NYC she volunteered actively for the First Church, Caring Community, Wo
 JOHNSON - JONES -- Thelma. Family, friends, and students mourn the passing of Thelma Johnson-Jones, 39, on Jan. 21, 2004. Ms. Johnson-Jones had worked for more than 13 years as math instructor for the STEP Program at the Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery. She was a math 
 LASH--Trude. The Board of Directors and the Council of the Foundation for Child Development express their sadness at the loss of our distinguished colleague, Trude Lash, who made significant contributions to developing the field of childhood social indicators. She was the principal investig
 ROSENBAUM -- Jeane (Greenwald), on February 4, 2004. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother to Bob and wife Marilyn. Adoring grandmother of Danny and Diana. Devoted sister to Stanley and Arnold Greenwald & the late Ruth Levine, Rosalind Fiddle and Morton Greenwald. Donations in her 
 TOBIAS--Lillie Colte, 94. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Tobias, Esq. and loving mother of the late Ethel. Will be missed by her sister, Sylvia, her nieces and nephews, and her devoted friends. Services today at 9 AM, Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY.       
 WEISS--Henrietta. 1912-2004. Beloved wife of the late Meyer. Loving mother of Jack and Reva. Cherished grandmother of Tzipora, Gila, and Meira. Her death leaves a void in our hearts.       
 WHITMORE -- Madeline M. died February 3, 2004 in Charlottesville, VA. Born September 8, 1906. She was a 1928 graduate of the University of Virginia. She was preceded in death by her husband H. Bruce Whitmore. They raised their family in Port Washington, NY from 1939-68, and she taught schoo
 WILLIG--Meg, 85 years old, died on February 4th, 2004 after a prolonged struggle to overcome the effects of a cerebral hemorrhage. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, Jack; her son, Robert, and his wife, Ginny; her grandchildren, David, Danny, Jared, Scott, Brent and Alexandra; and 
 Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said. She was 95. Mrs. Lash was an early mainstay of the commission, which Mrs. R
 Gail Hall Zarr, a former managing editor of the Zagat Surveys series of  restaurant, hotel and travel guides, died last Saturday at her home in  Manhattan. She was 50. The cause was complications of uterine cancer, said her husband, Gary Zarr. Mrs. Zarr began working at Zagat in 199
 Jill Kornblee, an art dealer whose Manhattan gallery handled the work of many well-known contemporary artists early in their careers, died on Jan. 29 in Branford, Conn. She was 84 and lived in Weston, Conn. The cause was cancer, said her daughter Elisabeth Kornblee. Born in 
 May O'Donnell, an early Martha Graham principal dancer and a modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 97. Her death was reported by Marian Horosko, who is writing a book about her. The serene Ms. O'Donnell might have served as 
 BERKE--Janet. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Janet Berke. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Marvin and their family. Dr. Elliott Solomon, Pres. BER
 HOFFMAN--Ida Mae, 94, of 338C Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. Widow of Nathan Volin and Rabbi Isidor Hoffman; mother of Michael and Peter Volin. Funeral Sunday, February 8th, 10:30 AM, at Alderson Funeral Home, 70 Central Ave., Waterbury, CT. Burial 2:30 PM, Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridg
 WURMFELD -- Esther Wit zling, 89, died peacefully at home Friday, February 6th. Devoted widow of Charles J. Beloved mother of Sanford and the late Michael. Cherished mother-in-law of Rella and Hope. Adored grandma of Charles, Eden, Jeremy, Treva, Jason and Justin. A lifelong New Yorker, gra
 FLORSHEIM--Elise. Died February 6, two days after her 98th birthday. She is mourned by her nieces Ena and Kitty Lorant, great-nephews Richard and Michael Lorant, their wives Susana and Sheila, great-niece Lisa Sampson, her husband Don, and five great-grandnieces and nephews. Also, cousins R
 GARFIELD -- Evelyn (nee Gerstein). Pioneer movie critic died February 2, 2004, age 102. Your elegance and love of beauty will always inspire us. Gracious lady to her whole family, beloved wife of the late Gustave B. Garfield. Mother of Diana Valenti and the late Oliver Garfield. Devoted gra
 HARRIS--Florence Yard. Age 87, died in Manhattan, February 7, 2004, after a long bout with breast cancer. She was the wife of Louis Harris, the noted public opinion analyst. She was the beloved mother of Susan Yard Harris of Northampton, MA, Peter Yard Harris of New York City, and Richard Y
 HOFFMAN--Ida Mae, 94, of 338C Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. Widow of Nathan Volin and Rabbi Isidor Hoffman; mother of Michael and Peter Volin. Funeral Sunday, February 8th, 10:30 AM, at Alderson Funeral Home, 70 Central Ave., Waterbury, CT. Burial 2:30 PM, Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridg
 HOYT--Elizabeth Sayer. Died peacefully on February 5th, in Ponte Vedra, FL. at age 91. Formerly of Oyster Bay, NY. She is the widow of Everett W. Hoyt. She is survived by her three sons, Charles E. of Washington, DC., Anthony S. of New York City, and William W. of Hamilton, MA. She also has
 LASH--Trude. We mourn the loss of our legendary colleague whose lifelong commitment to social justice reflected her close friendship with Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt. Her death truly marks the end of an era but Trude's great work on behalf of children, the homeless, the victims of tyrann
 LUNDBERG -- Elizabeth Young. 93, of Cary, NC, longtime resident of Chappaqua, NY, died in her sleep on January 30, 2004. Graduate and friend of Bryn Mawr College, actress, teacher, wife of author Ferdinand Lundberg (1902-1995). Liz lived with zest. She is survived by her two sons, Randolph 
 MIESSE--Mirja Paabo. Age 81. Widow of William Thomas Miesse. Passed away January 29, 2004 in Mount Shasta, CA. A family memorial service for her cremated remains to held at her gravesite at Riverside Cemetery, Rochester, N.Y. on a date to be announced. She is survived by son William, daught
 SCHWARTING -- Margaret ''Peg'' A. (nee Monck). Of Jamesport, formerly of Rockville Centre, on Saturday, February 7, 2004, surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Devoted mother of Bruce (Kathleen), Barbara, Kathleen Molloy (Gerard), David, Anne DeBono (Joseph) and Steven 
 SPORN--Josephine ''Jo'' Naomi Levine. 1929-2004, died on February 5. Amour, beloved wife and best friend of Paul for 53 years; loving mother of Peter and his wife Barbara Ransby and of Pamela and her husband Pablo Foster, Jo leaves behind much adored grandchildren Jason, Asha and Lelanie: a
 WHITE--Penelope Weld. Of New Canaan, Connecticut and West Falmouth, MA., died peacefully at home January 21, 2004. Predeceased by Harold T. White Jr. She leaves 5 sons: Charles Dana White, Santa Barbara, CA., Alexander Weld White, Byfield, MA., Harold Tredway White, Bedford, New York, Chris
 WURMFELD -- Esther Wit zling, 89, died peacefully at home Friday, February 6th. Devoted widow of Charles J. Beloved mother of Sanford and the late Michael. Cherished mother-in-law of Rella and Hope. Adored grandma of Charles, Eden, Jeremy, Treva, Jason and Justin. A lifelong New Yorker, gra
 BECKER--Lillian Levinsohn. The Board of Governors and members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of longtime member, Lillian Levinsohn Becker. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest sympathy to her family. Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary       
 FRED--Marcy. A valued and loved employee of PENCIL was hit and killed by a car Thursday night. She is survived by her mother Hachin Cho and her sister Tracy Fred. Visitation will be at R.G. Ortiz Funeral Home, 2121 Westchester Avenue, Bronx, NY, February 10th, 2-10 pm. FRED--Marcy. 
 HOYT--Elizabeth Sayer. Died peacefully on February 5th, in Ponte Vedra, FL. at age 91. Formerly of Oyster Bay, NY. She is the widow of Everett W. Hoyt. She is survived by her three sons, Charles E. of Washington, DC., Anthony S. of New York City, and William W. of Hamilton, MA. She also has
 MARANS--Sarah. On February 7. Widow of Julian. Mother of Jacqueline (Alan) Wapnick and the late Alan (Anne). Grandmother of Karen Radjavitch, Cheryl Wapnick, Patricia Allen and John Marans. Sister of Yetta Weisz, and the late Haskell and Minnie Faber. She was a teacher for many years.      
 SCHWARTING -- Margaret ''Peg'' A. (nee Monck). Of Jamesport, formerly of Rockville Centre, on Saturday, February 7, 2004, surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Devoted mother of Bruce (Kathleen), Barbara, Kathleen Molloy (Gerard), David, Anne DeBono (Joseph) and Steven 
 SOCCI--Susanna (Sue). On February 8, 2004. Born in Camden, NJ, of the late Basilio and Josephine Pizzino. A true lady possessing old world grace and charm, keen intelligence and a uplifting and happy demeanor, with a bottomless well of strength and support for those who needed her in any wa
 WURMFELD -- Esther Wit zling, 89, died peacefully at home Friday, February 6th. Devoted widow of Charles J. Beloved mother of Sanford and the late Michael. Cherished mother-in-law of Rella and Hope. Adored grandma of Charles, Eden, Jeremy, Treva, Jason and Justin. A lifelong New Yorker, gra
 CORWIN--Erwin. You have been a dear, wise and compassionate friend over the years. We will miss you. Our deepest sympathy to your loving wife, Judy and her entire family. Elaine and Stan       
 FRED--Marcy. The staff and Board of PENCIL are profoundly saddened by the untimely, tragic death of Marcy Fred, our colleague and friend of many years. Marcy was an integral part of our everyday work, and contributed her wit, intelligence and compassion to all decisions great and small. She
 MOSHMAN--Jerome. National Council of Jewish Women, Brooklyn Section Board, extends heartfelt sympathy to Mildred Moshman, Section Vice President, on the passing of her beloved husband, Jerome. Janet Taft, President       
 PARSONS--Evelyn Holmes. Died peacefully at The Connecticut Hospice in Branford CT on February 2, 2004. She was born on October 7, 1919 in Manchester, NH, the only child of James Robertson and Lena (Eckhardt). She attended Manchester public schools and The University of New Hampshire, before
 BIMEL--Natalie. The Board and staff of the Correctional Association mourn the untimely death of Natalie Bimel, our friend and colleague in advocating on behalf of the vulnerable and powerless people caught up in the criminal justice system. Natalie's tireless commitment to social justice, h
 FOX--Constance M. 1932-2004 Of North Salem NY. Died on February 7. Devoted daughter of the late Frank and Regina Fox, beloved wife of the late Gilbert Anyon. She is survived by brothers Frank and Michael Fox, and their spouses, Evon and Lizann, six nieces, two nephews and ten grand nieces a
 HERTZ--Rose. The Board and Staff of the Women's Division are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Rose Hertz. She will surely be missed. American Technion Society Natalie Lyons, W.D. Pres. Gloria Neimark, Director       
 McCABE--Norma Jean (nee Jorge), of Long Beach, LI on February 10, 2004 in her 54th year. Beloved wife of Peter. Loving mother to Amy Kennedy, Adam and son-in-law Mike. Cherished sister of Chris Jorge Minkoff and Janis Reynolds. Beloved aunt and sister-in-law. Wonderful friend and mentor to 
 PAULIN - BATTERSBY -- Li sanne. Passed away unexpectedly Thursday, February 5, 2004. Lisanne was born to E. Max and Anne Paulin in Portland OR on June 30, 1962. After graduating from Brown University in 1985, she pursued a career in advertising. On May 15, 1999 she married Gregory Battersby
 PENKOWER--Lillian H. Stavisky. Died February 9, 2004, peacefully, surrounded by children and grandchildren. Beloved and loving wife for 64 years of the late Rabbi Murry S.; devoted daughter of Abraham Max & Fannie Beatrice Stavisky; cherished mother of Andrea & David Rosen, Monty & Yael, Jo
 WALD--Edith Weiler. Age 93. Died February 1, 2004 in Chicago, IL. Predeceased by her husband, Maurice Wald, M.D. and her brother, George A. Weiler. Survived by her children Nancy and Albert and grandchildren Laura and Michael. Educated at the Dalton School, University of Wisconsin and Colum
 FOX--Constance M. 1932-2004 Of North Salem NY. Died on February 7. Devoted daughter of the late Frank and Regina Fox, beloved wife of the late Gilbert Anyon. She is survived by brothers Frank and Michael Fox, and their spouses, Evon and Lizann, six nieces, two nephews and ten grand nieces a
 VOSS--Elsa. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, President       
 BERG--Sylvia. Formerly of Jackson Heights, NY, died peacefully at Connecticut Hospice on February 12, 2004. She is survived by her children Dr. Gerald and Barbara Berg of Woodbridge, CT and Stanley Berg of Garnerville, NY. She was the wife of the late Alban (Abe) Berg. Our dear Grandma Sylv
 BERNSTEIN--Selma D. Died February 2, 2004 at age 90. Wife of Lester. Mother of Robert and Joel. Grandmother of Benjamin, Ariel, Simon, Emily, Jacob and Haylee. Teacher, past President of Hadassah (New Rochelle) and of her condominium. She will be praised at the Gates by her very own deeds. 
 CANTOR--Helen (nee Bregman). Wife of the late William. Mother of Jerold and Howard. Mother-in-law of Carol and Amy. Sister of Milton Bregman. Grandmother of Jonah, Dara, and Jeremy. She was the owner of Phoenix Stationery, NYC for many years. For information, please call Bernheim Apter Krei
 DIAZ--Mary Frances. The Board of Directors, the staff and the worldwide family of the International Rescue Committee (IRC) are profoundly saddened by the death on February 12th of our colleague. As Executive Director of the IRC-affiliated Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, M
 HADLEY - BIBERMAN -- Su san J., M.D., for many years the highest ranking woman physician at Cornell Medical Center, died on December 27, 2003. She graduated from Cornell University Medical College in 1944. For the next forty years she served on the medical staff of New YorkCornell, rising t
 HEALY--Bea. February 11, 2004. Beloved mother of Margaret Healy Bay and Jacqueline Fitzgerald. Cherished grandmother of Marianne Belica and her husband Michael and great-grandmother of Michael, Alexandra and Jessica. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call 
 IIJIMA--Grace K. Died January 26, 2004 in Manhattan. She was 93. She had been a Principal Librarian with the NY Public Library and a Director of Information for the US Information Agency in Japan. After retirement, she became an advocate for women and the elderly, serving as a member of the
 KIMURA--Nobuko, ceramic artist, died February 9th while vacationing in Italy. She is survived by her sisters, Helen Goto and Marge Ota. She will be greatly missed by her friends and fellow artists.       
 FELD--Isabel. In memory of Isabel Feld, a lady of beauty, grace, and generosity, who enriched the life of her husband, Harold Feld, and her family.       
 BERNSTEIN--Selma D. Died February 2, 2004 at age 90. Wife of Lester. Mother of Robert and Joel. Grandmother of Benjamin, Ariel, Simon, Emily, Jacob and Haylee. Teacher, past President of Hadassah (New Rochelle) and of her condominium. She will be praised at the Gates by her very own deeds. 
 DIAZ--Mary Frances. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children are deeply saddened by the death on February 12th of our Executive Director, who dedicated her life to refugee women and children. We express our heartfelt sympathy to Tom Fergu
 FREED--Nettie M. Died February 13, 2004, age 96. Beloved wife of the late Leo Freed, her husband of 53 years. Devoted mother of Jeanie Pelzman and Judith Evans. Loving grandmother of Bonnie Burns, Betsy Ross, Debbie Jelinek, Andrew Evans and Lauren Evans. She is also survived by seven great
 KIRCHMAN--Rose. February 12, 2004. Beloved wife of Milton, mother of Ernest, Laura and Ann. A teacher, poet and source of love, strength and inspiration to all around her. Funeral services private.       
 MORAN--Laura Regina de Bonneville. Of NYC and Palm Beach, FL died Tuesday, February 10, 2004, at Good Samaritan Hospital. Laura, the daughter of the late George F. Moran and Gertrude E. Corbett Moran of Manhattan, NY, is survived by numerous loving cousins, nieces, nephews and friends who c
 POLLACK--Julia Moselle. February 13th, 2004. Born in Fayetteville, Arkansas to Flora and Harry Baum. Married Isadore Erlich 1934 (died 1968). Survived by her adoring husband of 32 years, the Honorable Milton Pollack, United States District Judge of the Southern District of New York. Moselle
 Frances Partridge, the last of the spectacularly talented and irreverent group of British writers and artists who coalesced as the Bloomsbury group in the years before World War I, died in London on Feb. 5. She was 103. Ms. Partridge's death was announced by her literary agency, Rog
 ADACHI--Barbara C. Died on Februay 9, 2004, in San Francisco, CA. Memorial celebration for her family and friends will be held at the Century Club, 1355 Franklin St, San Francisco, from 3 to 6 PM, on February 21, 2004.       
 BALTZELL--Jocelyn E.C. 70, Associate Director of the Los Angeles Institute for the Humanities, died January 8, in Santa Monica, CA. Born in Fall River, MA, a graduate of Wellesley College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education, she was also a Fulbright Scholar in Rome. From 1986 to 19
 CARING--Lillian Cott. 85, Ph.D., N.Y.U.; Founders Day Award, PsyChi and Pi Lambda Theta Honor Societies; School Psychologist, East Meadow Public Schools; private practice in Rockville Centre and Asharoken, Long Island, NY; listed in Who's Who in American Women. Devoted wife of the late Alfr
 COCKCROFT--Cynthia Spencer. Died February 12, three months short of 90, peacefully of old age in Charlottesville, VA. Beloved wife of the late John V. Precious mother of John V. Jr. of Yorktown and Noel C. (Mrs. James L.) Slattery of Easton, MD. Devoted grandmother of three and great-grandm
 D'AURIAC--Mme. Gladys M. Hartnett. Of Larchmont, NY, died February 8th, 2004 at the age of 79. She was born in Paris, France on December 4th, 1924. Mrs. Hartnett, also known as, Mme. D'Auriac, taught at Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, CT for 27 years. While at Sacred Heart, Mrs. H
 DeVOE--Nina Carr Bondurant. On February 8, in Gladwyne, PA, age 94. A graduate of Vassar College, she attended the Art Students League in New York and was an accomplished watercolorist. She is survived by her husband A.G. DeVoe, M.D., her daughter Linda Carr MilneTyte, her granddaughter Ash
 DIAZ--Mary Frances. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children are deeply saddened by the death on February 12th of our Executive Director, who dedicated her life to refugee women and children. We express our heartfelt sympathy to Tom Fergu
 FREED--Nettie M. Died February 13, 2004, age 96. Beloved wife of the late Leo Freed, her husband of 53 years. Devoted mother of Jeanie Pelzman and Judith Evans. Loving grandmother of Bonnie Burns, Betsy Ross, Debbie Jelinek, Andrew Evans and Lauren Evans. She is also survived by seven great
 HEALY--Bea. February 11, 2004. Beloved mother of Margaret Healy Bay and Jacqueline Fitzgerald. Cherished grandmother of Marianne Belica and her husband Michael and great-grandmother of Michael, Alexandra and Jessica. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call 
 KIMURA--Nobuko, ceramic artist, died February 9th while vacationing in Italy. She is survived by her sisters, Helen Goto and Marge Ota. She will be greatly missed by her friends and fellow artists.       
 KONOVE--Jill F., Ed.D. 56, died February 3, 2004. Adored daughter of Paulina and Robert Konove, dear sister of Ronald (Kay) Konove, aunt of Elissa, Jonathan and Andrew, niece of Carl (Edith), cousin of Dr. Joseph Markenson, Susan, Paul, Natalia Begun family, Lillian Sobol family and Sally K
 MEISELS--Ida Ruth. Age 93. Died in Miami, FL, on February 12, 2004. She was a pianist, composer, and arranger of traditional and modern Hebrew and Yiddish songs, and accompanist for her late husband, Cantor Saul Meisels. She is survived by her son Samuel and his wife Alice, and by her daugh
 NICHOLS--Ronald. The Board of Directors of James Lenox House Association wishes to express condolences to longtime Board member Nancy Nichols and her family at the loss of her husband Ronald. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Paul J. Massey Jr., President Friedhilde Milburn, Exec. Dir.
 POLLACK--Julia Moselle. February 13th, 2004. Born in Fayetteville, Arkansas to Flora and Harry Baum. Married Isadore Erlich 1934 (died 1968). Survived by her adoring husband of 32 years, the Honorable Milton Pollack, United States District Judge of the Southern District of New York. Moselle
 YUE--Nai-Tchi Chang. On January 31, 2004. Wife of Dr. Shyh-Jong Yue (deceased). Daughter of Chang ChingChiang and Chang Yi-Ming (deceased). Artist, master cook, and cultivator of award-winning tomatoes. She is survived by son David, daughter - in - law Charlotte, and grandchildren Frances, 
 ZWERLING--Florence. Died February 12, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Israel Zwerling, mother of Matthew Zwerling and Sara Zwerling, and grandmother of Adam, Dan and Michael. A loving, giving, gentle woman, she will be sorely missed. Services at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterd
 BALTZELL--Jocelyn E.C. 70, Associate Director of the Los Angeles Institute for the Humanities, died January 8, in Santa Monica, CA. Born in Fall River, MA, a graduate of Wellesley College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education, she was also a Fulbright Scholar in Rome. From 1986 to 19
 COCKCROFT--Cynthia Spencer. Died February 12, three months short of 90, peacefully of old age in Charlottesville, VA. Beloved wife of the late John V. Precious mother of John V. Jr. of Yorktown and Noel C. (Mrs. James L.) Slattery of Easton, MD. Devoted grandmother of three and great-grandm
 HEALY--Bea. February 11, 2004. Beloved mother of Margaret Healy Bay and Jacqueline Fitzgerald. Cherished grandmother of Marianne Belica and her husband Michael and great-grandmother of Michael, Alexandra and Jessica. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call 
 MILLER--Rachel (Ray). 96, died peacefully at home on Saturday, February 14. Born in Manhattan on December 20, 1907, she was predeceased by her beloved husband, Dr. Benjamin J. Miller in 1995, after 66 years of marriage. She is survived by her daughter Isabelle Miller Hyman, her son Albert A
 OBREGON--Maria Luisa. On February 15, 2004, at age 90. She leaves behind a loving stepson Roberto Obregon, a sister Rosario O. Olazabal and the late Carmen O. Galdos, her niece Rosario Delgado, her nephew Francisco Olazabal, her six grandnephews and nieces. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 10 am, at S
 TIRINO--Margaret. Of Forest Hills, NY, on February 13, after a long illness. Survived by her husband Anthony, two sons, Thomas and Anthony Jr., and grandchildren Matthew and Lisa. The family will receive visitors at Fox Funeral Home, Inc, Ascan Ave at Metropolitan Ave, Forest Hills, Monday,
 VANDE STOUWE--Dorothy. Age 78, died unexpectedly on February 12. Survived by her husband Robert, and her children Kathleen (Layburn), Robert, Thomas, Stephen, Marjorie (Ratner), Richard and Dorothy (Tuma), their spouses and 19 grandchildren. Information about services at 631-427-1123.      
 Susan Schechter, whose books about domestic violence helped to unify the movement to assist battered women and to bridge the gap between programs addressing domestic abuse and those for children's welfare, died Feb. 3 at her home in Iowa City. She was 57. The cause was endometrial c
 Jan Miner, who had a long career on the New York stage but was best known as Madge the Manicurist in Palmolive commercials, died on Sunday in Bethel, Conn. She was 86 and lived in nearby Southbury. She had been in failing health for several years and died at the Bethel Health Care F
 GRIFF--Sylvia. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 ISAACS--Sidney K., 77, of Freehold, NJ, on February 16, 2004. Husband of the late Lenora Isaacs; loving father of Ellen and her husband Frank O'Shea and David Isaacs; adoring grandfather of Jessica, Ryan, and Ari. ISAACS--Sidney. The thought of not speaking to you every day is more 
 MIROTZNIK -- Rosalyn. Passed away on February 15 after a long illness, her family at her side. Beloved wife of Bernard for 54 years, mother of Carol, Charles and Michael, mother-in-law of Jacqueline, grandmother of Bari and Alexa. Devoted friend, confidante and teacher at C.S. 47 in the Bro
 RUTHERFURD -- Georgette Whelan. Died February 14 in Manhattan. Beloved wife of 66 years to Guy G. Rutherfurd. Mother of Guy Jr., Leith R. Talamo, Alec, and Morton, who predeceased her. Dear sister of Sidney S. Whelan Jr. Grandmother of 12. Lifelong artist. Friends may call at F. Campbell, 1
 VANDE STOUWE--Dorothy. Age 78, died unexpectedly on February 12. Survived by her husband Robert, and her children Kathleen (Layburn), Robert, Thomas, Stephen, Marjorie (Ratner), Richard and Dorothy (Tuma), their spouses and 19 grandchildren. Information about services at 631-427-1123.      
 MARIE C. WILSON, the president of the Ms. Foundation for Women, has the comportment of a seasoned politician. One of the sharper ones. She speaks with passion and laser-beam focus in a soft Georgia accent. Perhaps this impression is enhanced by that snappy red blazer, so bold and camera rea
 Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, the co
 MARZULLO--Heidi E., R.N. Died February 16, 2004. Born May 8, 1939. Wife of John, mother of Matthew, sister of Uta, Barbara and Gloria. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 RUBINOW--Laura Caroline. Passed away February 14, 2004. Laura was a 15 year old student at Horace Greeley High School and a principal dancer in the Dance Emotions Performance Troupe. She is survived by her Parents Kristen and Scott Rubinow, Sister Rachelle and Brother David and her Grandpar
 RUTHERFURD -- Georgette Whelan. Died February 14 in Manhattan. Beloved wife of 66 years to Guy G. Rutherfurd. Mother of Guy Jr., Leith R. Talamo, Alec, and Morton, who predeceased her. Dear sister of Sidney S. Whelan Jr. Grandmother of 12. Lifelong artist. Friends may call at F. Campbell, 1
 Doris Troy, the big-voiced soul singer of the 1963 hit ''Just One Look,'' whose life story was the inspiration for the long-running musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Las Vegas. She was 67 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was emphysema, said Ken Wydro
 DOERFLER--Annette ''Toddy'' died on February 18, 2004. Full time grandmother, part time chocolate chip cookie baker and elaborate sweater maker. She was preceded by her husband, William G. Doerfler and long time friend, Edna Bender. Toddy was active in The Stephen Wise Synagogue and served 
 HEVESI--Eleanor, 86, beloved wife of the late Joseph Hevesi, died peacefully at her home in Harrison NY, January 30. She had worked both at Memorial Sloan-Kettering of Westchester and at SUNY in Purchase NY, where she won the Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Professional Service in 1979
 LEDY--Susan, of Scarsdale, on February 18, 2004. Adored wife of Bill, cherished mother of David & Pia and Nancy. Doting grandmother of Jordan and Cameron Ledy. Devoted aunt and friend to many. All from Sprain Brook Country Club will remember ''Sue'' as a caring business person who remembere
 LEVY--Joyce. July 22, 1927 to February 15, 2004, beloved aunt of Sondra Levy Wells. Mourned by cousins and friends at home and abroad. Joyce loved work, travel and the arts, most of all, people. She gave to many and will be missed by all. LEVY--Joyce. For over 30 years, Joyce has be
 RUTHERFURD -- Georgette Whelan (Mrs. Guy G.) The Society of Memorial SloanKettering mourns the passing of devoted Board member, Georgie Rutherfurd, who was a long-standing member of the Art Committee. We offer our condolences to her daughter and Board member, Leith Talamo, and her family. M
 ZELLER--Helen L. Late Tuesday, February 17, 2004. Loving wife of the late Dr. Joseph B. Zeller. Mother of Stuart and the late Dr. Malcolm M. Zeller, Marion and Carole. She will be missed by her grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Her career in the New York City school system made her an i
 GILHULEY--Margaret Stephen, died peacefully after a brief illness on February 12, 2004 in Glen Cove, NY at age 89. Wife of Edward J. Gilhuley, Jr., who predeceased her, and mother of Stephen Edward and mother-in-law of Anna of NYC. Memorial service at Grace Episcopal Church, Nyack, NY, 10 A
 HARCOURT--Renee. Passed away on February 17, 2004 at her home, surrounded by her family, Caroline, Bernard, Hillary, Mia, and Victoria. Adored grandmother of Eloise, Isadora, and Leonard. Memorial service at All Souls Unitarian Church, 80th Street & Lexington, Friday at 2 P.M. In lieu of fl
 JERUM--Sara Bessie. On February 18, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Devoted mother of Joan Weintrob and Edward Jerum. Cherished grandmother of David and Corinne Weintrob, Elliot and Chris Weintrob, Douglas and Amy Jerum and Greg Jerum and great-grandmother of Sabrina, Grant, Garret, A
 ZELLER--Helen L. Late Tuesday, February 17, 2004. Loving wife of the late Dr. Joseph B. Zeller. Mother of Stuart and the late Dr. Malcolm M. Zeller, Marion and Carole. She will be missed by her grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Her career in the New York City school system made her an i
 DAREN--Hazel Ruth. On February 18, after a long courageous battle with cancer and MS. Her beauty and remarkable intellect were with her until the end. She was surrounded by love and unstinting care due largely to the loving dedication and resolve of Jeff Aron, her family and friends. She le
 GREENSPAN--Rita. Passed away peacefully on February 18, 2004. Beloved wife of 55 years to the late Paul M. Greenspan. Loving mother of Eric (Maxine) Greenspan and Karen (Raymond) Cohen. Devoted and adored grandma to Perry and Philip Greenspan, Michael, Spencer and Chelsea Cohen. Cherished s
 JERUM--Sara Bessie. On February 18, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Devoted mother of Joan Weintrob and Edward Jerum. Cherished grandmother of David and Corinne Weintrob, Elliot and Chris Weintrob, Douglas and Amy Jerum and Greg Jerum and great-grandmother of Sabrina, Grant, Garret, A
 KETOVER--Cele, 93, former New York City restauranteur, passed away with grace and dignity on February 18th in Boca Raton, FL where she had retired after a lifelong love affair with New York. She was a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother and friend who now joins her eldest so
 WEISS--Irma (nee Tuck), on February 19, 2004. Beloved wife of Louis. Dear mother of Joan (John) Digby and Norman Weiss. Services Sunday, February 22, 1:00 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. WEISS--Irma. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the
 Sister Doris Smith, who was president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx from 1973 to 1992, died on Thursday. She was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sister Eileen McGrory, a member of her religious order, the Congregation of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vin
 BALLMAN--Virginia. Wife of the late Edward, on January 17, 2004. She will be missed by her friend Estelle Franks.       
 BIRNBAUM -- Edith Leah (Bonny). Died peacefully after a prolonged illness on February 20, 2004. She was the devoted wife of Leonard Birnbaum of NYC, and Hillsdale, NY, sister of Barbara Gettinger of Huntington Bay, NY, mother of Richard of NYC and Pound Ridge, NY, Jane of Norwalk, CT, and P
 GILHULEY--Margaret Stephen, died peacefully after a brief illness on February 12, 2004 in Glen Cove, NY at age 89. Wife of Edward J. Gilhuley, Jr., who predeceased her, and mother of Stephen Edward and mother-in-law of Anna of NYC. Memorial service at Grace Episcopal Church, Nyack, NY, 10 A
 GREENSPAN--Rita. Passed away peacefully on February 18, 2004. Beloved wife of 55 years to the late Paul M. Greenspan. Loving mother of Eric (Maxine) Greenspan and Karen (Raymond) Cohen. Devoted and adored grandma to Perry and Philip Greenspan, Michael, Spencer and Chelsea Cohen. Cherished s
 HIRD--Diane Meentemeier, died on February 10th, 2004, at her home in Parkland, FL. Born in Schenectady, NY, on January 19th, 1935, she was the daughter of Louis Meentemeier and Sophie Riechmann. Mrs. Hird moved to California at an early age and then lived overseas for more than 20 years in 
 HUNTER--B. Barbara of Crestwood Village, Whiting, NJ died December 17, 2003. Mrs. Hunter was the widow of F. Lansing Hunter, former Mayor of Westbury, LI, NY where they lived for 40 years before coming to Crestwood in 1982. She was born and raised in Birmingham, AL. Mrs. Hunter was known in
 KANE--Maureen Anne. Outstanding Democratic campaign professional, successful independent political consultant, courageous friend. With sympathy to her family and many friends, Catherine Nolan       
 LANDAUER--Eva, a distinguished child psychoanalyst born on October 9, 1917 in Heilbron, Germany. died on February 14, 2004. Ms. Landauer was the daughter of Dr. Karl Landauer, a prominent German-Jewish psychoanalyst who was one of the founders of the Frankfurt Psychoanalytic Institute. In 1
 LYNN--Eva. With sadness, we mourn the passing of our mother Eva at the age of 91. She died peacefully in her bed on February 18. Surviving are her twin sister Ruth Wolf of Frankfurt, Germany; her son Professor Arie Lewin and his wife Anita of Chapel Hill, NC, their children Tal Wittle and O
 MOSES--Carol Whitehill. Age 71, died at home in McLean, Virginia, on February 19, of cancer. After finishing public school in Scarsdale, New York, where she was born, she attended Vassar College, graduating in 1954 with a degree in child development, which became her lifelong career. Follow
 PEAVY--Florence Van Veen. Devoted aunt, beloved friend, a real New Yorker, died February 14, 2004, age 94. We shall miss her more than words can tell. Her Columbia U. friends everywhere.       
 RUCKER--Gloria. Of West Orange, NJ, passed away peacefully at home on February 14, surrounded by her three loving children, Steve, Terry, and Joe. She was born in 1932 in Brooklyn. She attended Brooklyn College and received a master's degree at Montclair State College. She was an adjunct sc
 SPICE--Freda. February 19, 2004 at age 94. Devoted mother of Rosalind Silverstein and Susan Weill, grandmother of Michele, Keith, Meredith and Marc and great-grandmother of Matthew. A dedicated teacher for 35 years in the New York City school system, the students she encountered during her 
 WEISSBERG--Anna Spitzer. Homemaker and gentle lady, died peacefully on Saturday, in her 103rd year. God bless her and keep her. She loved and was deeply loved in return by her son Norbert, her late husband Bernard, and late son Joseph; her sisters and brother: Lillian, Rose and Rae, and the
 GOODMAN--Mildred Noskin. Beloved mother of Jennifer, wife of Peter Marco, and Eileen, wife of Richard Ekstract; devoted grandparent to Mitchell, Darryl and Salma Marco and Janet, Michael and Steven Ekstract. Mildred will be remembered for her lifetime commitment to Hadassah, her endless che
 GREENSPAN -- Rita. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dearest friends Karen, Raymond, Michael, Spencer and Chelsea on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. She will missed by all. Susan, Barry, Danielle and David       
 LINZ--Vera. On February 21, 2004, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late John. Dear mother of Lillian Mason and her husband Michael. Loving grandmother of Matthew and William. Funeral services today, 1 pm, Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd 
 LOKIEC--Esther. 87, on February 20, 2004. All who knew her bear witness to her limitless compassion, strength and love. Devoted wife of the late Mitchell, mother of the late Alice. She is survived by her son Stephen, Alice's husband Sandy, her granddaughter Nell, and niece Ellen. In a lifet
 MARTIN -- Ellen C. (nee Joseph). 54, on February 18, 2004. Greatly loved wife of Jim Martin. Predeceased by beloved parents Sally Joseph and Dr. Alexander Joseph. Caring sister of Richard Joseph and Janet Yanuklis; cherished aunt of Katherine Yanuklis-O'Brien, and Thomas Yanuklis. Her many 
 MOSES--Carol Whitehill. Age 71, died at home in McLean, Virginia, on February 19, of cancer. After finishing public school in Scarsdale, New York, where she was born, she attended Vassar College, graduating in 1954 with a degree in child development, which became her lifelong career. Follow
 ROTHSCHILD--Maurine. Of New York and Dark Harbor, on February 20, at her seasonal home in Palm Beach Gardens. Survived by Robert, husband of 63 years, and children, Katherine Jackson and Peter Rothschild, and grandsons, Oliver, Gregory and Will. Educator, activist promoting rights of women 
 WEISSBERG--Anna Spitzer. Homemaker and gentle lady, died peacefully on Saturday, in her 103rd year. God bless her and keep her. She loved and was deeply loved in return by her son Norbert, her late husband Bernard, and late son Josef; her sisters and brother: Lillian, Rose and Rae, and the 
 BARMANN--Dorothy E. on Sunday, February 22, 2004. Born on October 24, 1911 in NYC. Daughter of the late Tobias and Julia (nee Lachmann) Phillips. Widow of Bernard, who predeceased her on February 6, 2001. A 1932 graduate of Hunter College, she taught in both the NYC School System and in Bay
 COSTELLO--Vivian. The entire Long Island College Hospital family and the Guild of Long Island College Hospital 1897 acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of our good friend and Guild Board member, Vivian Costello. Vivian was a volunteer member of the LICH Guild for more than 50 years a
 GREENSPAN--Rita. Adored wife of the late Paul. Loving mother of Eric (Maxine) Greenspan and Karen (Raymond) Cohen. Grandmother of Philip & Perry Greenspan, Michael Spencer and Chelsea Cohen. She adored you all and will be sorely missed. Our families are so very sad. We will love you always.
 HOLZINGER -- Claire, died peacefully on February 15, 2004 in North Salem, New York at age 91. Her husband John F. Holzinger predeceased her. She is survived by her daughter Dana Dyas and grandchildren Linsey and Tamesin of Montignysur-Loing, France as well as by her son John F. Holzinger Jr
 JACOBOWITZ--Rev. Abram. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our distinguished member, Mrs. Esther Graber. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 JOFFE -- Florence. Former President of Vacation Camp for the Blind. On February 22, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Teddy and Martin and mother-in-law of Arthur and Zerline. Cherished grandmother of Samuel, Sally, Toni, David, Paul, Mary, Simeon, John and great grand
 REIMANN--Jenny Madeleine Elisabeth. June 20, 1953-February 21, 2004. After a four year struggle with ovarian cancer, Jenny passed away peacefully at the home of her brother Robert and her sisterin-law Anne. She is survived by her mother Madeleine Reimann, her aunt Elisabeth Praetorius and h
 ROTHSCHILD--Maurine. Of New York and Dark Harbor, on February 20, at her seasonal home in Palm Beach Gardens. Survived by Robert, husband of 63 years, and children, Katherine Jackson and Peter Rothschild, and grandsons, Oliver, Gregory and Will. Educator, activist promoting rights of women 
 SHATZ--Shanah Kaplan, 83, Palo Alto, CA February 7, 2004. Studied with Philip Guston at University of Iowa and painted throughout her life; her paintings grace walls from MA to CA. Married Robert H. Shatz, May, 1942 and survived by her children, Carla and Jon Shatz, and daughter-in-law Nanc
 GRZELAK--Zofja Fedorowicz (Sophie). Wife of late Wlodzimierz Grzelak; sister of late Tacjanna Maria Fedorowicz-only other survivor of Fedorowicz family from WWII. Survived by daughter Eva (Robert), daughter Krystyna (partner Joy). Born in Bobrujsk. Architect, NY City Planner, decorated sold
 HORWITZ--Adeline. Predeceased in death by her husband Irving Horwitz. Survived by devoted stepdaughter Joan Levenson, four grandchildren, one great-grandchild, loving nephews Robert Siegel, Barry Schaffer, adoring nieces Marilyn Siegel, Susan Weinstein. She also leaves behind many nieces, n
 LAMPERT -- Hannah. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Hannah Lampert. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 LANDAU--Eva. On February 22. Beloved mother of Larry Horowitz and devoted mother-in-law of Shelly Horowitz. Adored grandmother of Robin Wasser, Amy Greenberg and Allen Horowitz. She will also be deeply missed by her great-grandchildren Yechezkel, Emily, Kayla Wasser and Yocheved Greenberg. 
 MILLER--Anita. The Board of Governors and Membership Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Anita Miller, an esteemed member and extend to her beloved husband, Lester and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secretary       
 NILSON--Barbro. We are deeply saddened by the death of Barbro Nilson, a gracious and compassionate woman who was taken too soon and too quickly. She was both a client & a friend. With deepest sympathies to Bengt, Lisbet, Christer & their families. Rose and Kissin LLP       
 Irma Fleck, a physician's wife who looked at the vacant lots and abandoned buildings of her South Bronx neighborhood and retaliated by starting organizations to celebrate art and turn rubble piles into emerald oases, died on Feb. 11 in Naples, Fla. She was 84 and lived in Naples.   
 ALDEN -- Barbara, beloved mother of Christopher, David and Jennifer, passed away on February 11, 2004. She was greatly loved by her late husband, playwright Jerome Alden. As a creative, special education teacher at the Reece School and August Aichhorn Center, she changed many lives for the 
 BLIND--Peggy A. Age 89 of Lancaster, PA, formerly of Englewood, NJ, died on Tuesday at her residence following a lengthy illness. Mrs. Blind is survived by a son, William C. Jr.; a daughter Anne Cook Conze, both of NY, NY and four grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions ma
 HADDEN--Sarah R., 82, died peacefully surrounded by family and her dear friend on Monday, February 23, 2004 in Wellington, FL. Sally was a strong presence in the lives of all who knew her; there was almost no adversity she was unable to surmount. She inspired and engaged and entertained us.
 LAMPERT -- Hannah (nee Klaver). Of Palm Beach, FL, died Tuesday. Loving wife of Chester, mother of Steven Lampert, Dr. Barbara Lampert, and Trudy Bienenfeld. Loving grandmother and great grandmother. She will be greatly missed. Burial at Mount Hebron Cemetery, 1 P.M. Friday.       
 LANDAUER--Beverly Foy, of ''The Fountains'' Millbrook, NY, died peacefully February 21, 2004, at Sharon Hospital, Sharon, CT, with her sister, Barrie L. Estes, at her side. She was born March 29, 1926, at Miss Lippincott's Lying-In Hospital in New York City to Ruth Yarbrough and James Dittm
 LESSER -- Ruth. Mother, grandmother, aunt, greataunt, friend, psychologist, teacher, mentor, straightshooter. Feisty, funny and feeling. So loving and so loved. She was the real thing. Funeral Friday, February 27th, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue. Visiting at her home 
 LIEBERMAN--Stella E. Age 89. On February 25, 2004. Adoring companion of Bernard Bierman and cherished cousin of Josephine Phillips. Predeceased by loving husband Dr. Herman S. Lieberman and sister Helen Eberlin. Services Thursday, February 26th 11 AM at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Se
 LYON--Claire Mitchell, 88, of Vero Beach, FL and Essex, CT died Saturday (February 21) of congestive heart failure. The daughter of the late James and Emelia Scheidecker Mitchell. Claire was a graduate of Kent Place School and Smith College. She is survived by her husband, William D. Lyon J
 ROTHSCHILD--Maurine. The Board of Trustees and The Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the death of Maurine Rothschild, who taught at Fieldston from 1966 to 1973. We extend our sympathies to her family, including her husband, Robert Rothschild '35, son, Peter Rothsc
 WITCHEL--Eve. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime, devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc Rabbi       
 MOORE--Diana, February 26, 2003. One year ago, always on our minds. Forever within our hearts. She loved and was loved beyond measure. On this first anniversary, with all our love. Ellen, Mom & Dad, Nana, Jim, Kate, Nick & Isabella, Sophie and all your friends.       
 Estelle Stewart Axton, whose name put the ''Ax'' in Stax Records, the Memphis soul label she founded with her brother, died on Tuesday in Memphis. She was 85. She died at the St. Francis Nursing Home after a series of strokes, said Deanie Parker, the president and chief executive of
 GAHAN--Sylvia Barnett, on February 26, 2004, at age 98. Much loved widow of Edward Francis Gahan; mother of Antony Gahan; grandmother of Rebecca Fletcher, Victoria Cliche and Christopher Gahan; great grandmother of Rachel, Leila Rose, Stanley and Spencer. Sylvia was the last surviving child
 KANOF--Eva, on Tuesday, February 24. Beloved wife of Morris, adored mother of Philip and mother-in-law of Barbara. Dear sister of Joseph Estrin and cherished grandmother of David and Marisa. She taught for 35 years in the New York City school system and was a matron of the Eastern Star. Sur
 LESSER--Ruth. We deeply mourn the loss of our most esteemed Professor and Clinic Director, Dr. Ruth Lesser. For over 40 years, Dr. Lesser's unfailing dedication has left an indelible mark on all who knew her. Compassionate analyst, outstanding teacher, supervisor, mentor, she has been a lea
 LEWITIN--Alice Mizner. Died at midnight February 15, 2004 of acute cardiac failure. She was 89 and living in Amherst, MA. Made a Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French government in recognition of her contributions to Franco - American under standing, she was born September 2
 NASSAU--Susan, on February 26, 2004. Formerly of Roslyn Heights, L.I. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of Barbara and David Perlmutter, Carol and Peter Bartfeld, Laura and Jerry Nassau, Sharon Nassau and Pamela Young. Cherished grandmother of Jason, Alexander, Gideon, Daniel,
 ROSE--Annabelle, 78, of Margate, Florida, passed away on February 26, 2004. She is survived by her loving daughters: Barbara Acacia, Linda (David) Murdoch; grandchildren: Michael Levine, Michelle Davis, Patricia Rau, Scott Murdoch, Kenneth Murdoch; great-grandchildren: Kimberly, Kayla and N
 SIMON--Ruth, 95. Incredibly devoted wife of the late Edward. Totally selfless mother of Edwina Marks and generous and nurturing grandmother of Elyse Hilton and Bonnie Hilton Green. She will be missed by those whose lives she touched, especially her caring Raj.       
 WALDMAN--Blanche, on February 25, 2004, at age 90. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Lester. Loving and adored mother of Michael and Rebecca. Cherished aunt of Stuart and Tomi Berney and their children, Dawn, Wendy, J.J. and Kerri. Dear cousin of Beverly Wein. Friends may call at Frank E
 WITCHEL--Eve, on February 25th, 2004, at the age of 98. Beloved wife of the late Irwin. Loving mother of Molly Ann and her husband Jerome Goldstein, and Milton and his wife Patricia Witchel. Adoring grandmother of Janet Bell, James Goldstein, Harry Witchel and Leigh Witchel. Proud great-gra
 POHODZAY--Elsie E. February 27, 2003. Sadly missed every day by we who loved her so dearly. Her example continues to guide us       
 Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 40.        
 LESSER--Ruth, Ph.D. The Interpersonal Orientation of the New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis deeply mourns the loss of Dr. Ruth Lesser, our beloved colleague and friend, a woman who spearheaded the Interpersonal movement at NYU and championed its ten
 WACHTLER -- Fay Sobel. Passed away February 26, 2004 on the eve of her 103rd birthday. An extraordinary woman who actively participated in the family business beyond 94 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Adored by her sons MortyMorton and Sol; her daughters-in-law Phyllis and Jo
 WALDMAN--Blanche, on February 25, 2004, at age 90. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Lester. Loving and adored mother of Michael and Rebecca. Cherished aunt of Stuart and Tomi Berney and their children, Dawn, Wendy, J.J. and Kerri. Dear cousin of Beverly Wein. Friends may call at Frank E
 WEINSTEIN--Sylvia (nee Miller), on February 24th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Weinstein and the late Harry Rosman. Treasured sister of the late Naomi Babian. Loving cousin of Ruth Becker and her much loved niece, Barbara Akerman. The memory of her love of life and laughter, her wi
 CASSON--Ann Marie, on February 21, 2004. Predeceased by husband, Edward, daughter, Patricia, and granddaughter, Batya. Survived by children, Tom, Chris, John, Mary, Jim, Justin, Paul and Jeanne, their spouses and 15 grandchildren. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. Courageous to 
 CHARNAY--Jean. 82. Of Lake Worth, FL. on February 26th. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Charnay, adoring mother of Patricia and Michael Gorman and Richard and Ruth Charnay, loving grandmother of Matthew and Aaron. She will be missed by her family and friends.       
 JENKINS--Phyllis Adams. Beloved wife of George Jenkins and cherished grandmother of Sarah and William Marsh, died February 26, in Santa Monica. Born in NYC and a longtime resident, she became one of the pioneering women television producers at NBC. In California, she was treasured for her p
 LESSER--Ruth, Ph.D. We are deeply saddened by the loss of the Clinical Director of the NYU Postdoctoral Program. A gifted professor, teacher and supervisor, Dr. Lesser served the community with dignity, dedication and accomplishment. She will be sorely missed. Sincere condolences to her fam
 LEWITIN--Alice Mizner. Died at midnight February 15, 2004 of acute cardiac failure. She was 89 and living in Amherst, MA. Made a Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French government in recognition of her contributions to Franco - American under standing, she was born September 2
 ROSE -- Annabelle. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the loss of our former Executive Assistant and extends heartfelt condolences to her beloved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 ROSENFELD--Juanita. Died February 17th, at peace and at home in Los Angeles, surrounded by family. Survived by John, her loving husband of 60 years, her daughter Susan and son Gus. Also surviving: vast areas of recreational open space remaining within our treasured Santa Monica Mountains, m
 ROTHSCHILD -- Maurine P. The Trustees and Staff of the New York Hall of Science extend their deepest sympathies to Robert Rothschild and family as they mourn the loss of Maurine, a Founding Trustee and longtime leader. She will be profoundly missed. Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman Alan J. Friedma
 SELIGMAN--Diane L. (nee Pollack). Of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved wife of Marvin. Cherished daughter of Joseph Pollack and the late Betty (Okin) Pollack. Devoted mother of Lara and Seth. Dear sister of April. The embodiment of grace and beauty. Her infinite love and kindness touched everyone. Servi
 SHATZ--Shanah Kaplan, 83, Palo Alto, CA February 7, 2004. Studied with Philip Guston at University of Iowa and painted throughout her life; her paintings grace walls from MA to CA. Married Robert H. Shatz, May, 1942 and survived by her children, Carla and Jon Shatz, and daughter-in-law Nanc
 SONN--Fay. 98, on February 28, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Dear mother of Dr. Stanley M. Sonn and Myrna S. Irwin. Loving grandmother of Elliott Sonn, Jeffrey Sonn, Dr. Heidi Sonn, Karen Sonn, Steven Irwin, Kevin Irwin and Eileen Riley. Cherished great - grandmother. She will be g
 SPELLMAN--Virginia Lynch. Formerly of Crestwood, N.Y. Died February 17, 2004. She was 83 years old. A Mass of Christian Burial will be Saturday, March 6th, Annunciation Church (914) 779-7345.       
 WACHTLER -- Fay Sobel. Passed away February 26, 2004 on the eve of her 103rd birthday. An extraordinary woman who actively participated in the family business beyond 94 years of age. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Adored by her sons Morton and Sol; her daughters-in-law Phylis and Joan. Ch
 WALDMAN--Blanche, on February 25, 2004, at age 90. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Lester. Loving and adored mother of Michael and Rebecca. Cherished aunt of Stuart and Tomi Berney and their children, Dawn, Wendy, J.J. and Kerri. Dear cousin of Beverly Wein. Friends may call at Frank E
 WEINSTEIN--Sylvia (nee Miller), on February 24th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Weinstein and the late Harry Rosman. Treasured sister of the late Naomi Babian. Loving cousin of Ruth Becker and her much loved niece, Barbara Akerman. The memory of her love of life and laughter, her wi
