 Hildegarde, whose career as an international cabaret chanteuse spanned almost seven decades and who was credited with starting the single-name vogue among entertainers, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. She was 99. Her death was confirmed Saturday by her
 HARDING--Helen. A Holocaust survivor, born in Yugoslavia, passed away at the age of 100. She and her late partner in life Mane, and their son Ray, found a new and happy life in America, the land of opportunity. She is survived by her loving family, Ray and Liz, Russell, Bob and Fran, Rachae
 HAYES--Nanette Hodgman. 87, formerly of NYC, passed away Saturday, July 23, 2005, in Louisville, KY. She was the beloved wife of the late Julian Lee Hayes. A memorial service was held in her honor at her church.       
 MacCRACKEN--Eleanor D., 86, died on July 29, 2005, at her home in New York City. The daughter of Eleanor G. and Charles A. Dickson, of Pittsburgh, she attended the Ellis School in that city and was a graduate of Miss Hall's School and Vassar College (Class of 1940). From 1949 to 1974 she li
 OSTRO--Pauline (nee Susserman). Died peacefully on July 28, 2005, at 97 years. Widow of Benjamin Ostro. Beloved mother of Susan Solomon (Dr. Lawrence Shaderowfsky), Robert (Karen). Cherished and loving grandmother of Alexander and Katherine Ostro and Jennifer Solomon. Mourned by her beloved
 BANNER--Helaine. 85. Beloved wife of 62 years to Jerry, Adored mother of Jon (Barbara), Pattie (Robert) & Liz. Beloved grandmother to David, Alissa and Sydney. An elegant, beautiful woman who will live on forever. We miss and love you, Mom. Service today The Riverside Mount Vernon at 1 PM. 
 BETRO--Bruno. Beloved husband of Katherine. Devoted father of John, Jennifer and her husband Michael. Also survived by grandchildren Michael and Katrina. Loving brother of Dominick, Anthony and Susan. Reposing at the James Romanelli-Stephen Funeral Home, 89-01 Rockaway Boulevard, Ozone Park
 JENSEN--Marie J. Longtime resident of Oceanside, New York and Jaffrey, NH, on July 31, 2005 after a brief illness. Devoted daughter of Roy. Loving cousin of John and Patricia Kurpetski. She leaves behind Dr. Virginia Maurer, Kimberly and Tammy Corcoran, Ina Fletcher, and many other dear fri
 LICHTENBERG--Laura R. Of Boca Raton, Florida died peacefully at home Monday, August 1, 2005, with her family at her side. A true woman of valor, she was the adored wife and best friend of Harold, beloved mother of Maxine Gerson, Jeffrey, Peter (Jamie) and Susie Blumenfeld (Todd), cherished 
 MILLER--Donna N. On August 1, of New York City & Hewlett, New York. Beloved daughter of the late Sybil and Edward, sister of Ellyn and Dan Cohen, mother of Rebecca and Jonathan. Member of NY Bar Assoc. Graduate of Pace Law School. Her light will live on. MILLER--Donna. Congregation 
 STEIN--Hannah, on July 30. Beloved wife of the late Leo Stein. Devoted mother of Howard L. Stein (Linda) and the late Anita Stein Leffler (Robert). Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. STEIN--Hannah. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time 
 SWOPE -- Elizabeth Edgar died on Saturday, July 30, in Palm Beach, Florida. She was an active civic leader and international speaker on religion and politics. From 1965 to 1967, she served as President of the Women's National Republican Club. She was President of the Newport Music Festival 
 ALBIZU--Olga. We mourn the loss of our beloved family member and lifelong friend who died peacefully at home in NY on July 30, 2005. A contemporary abstract artist, she was born in Ponce, P.R. on May 31, 1924. She studied painting with Esteban Vicente in Puerto Rico and Hans Hoffman in New 
 BANNER--Helaine. A very special friend is gone. She will be missed and remembered by us always. Heartfelt condolences to Jerry, Patti, Lizzie, and John. Lois and Stanley Ratner       
 BARRON - BIER -- Pearl. Be loved mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. We all know how much we meant to you. You were a beautiful and dignified woman who cherished her privacy and valued her friends and family. We will miss you and your undying love for us all. You will be in our hear
 LICHTENBERG--Laura R. Of Boca Raton, Florida died peacefully at home Monday, August 1, 2005, with her family at her side. A true woman of valor, she was the adored wife and best friend of Harold, beloved mother of Maxine Gerson, Jeffrey, Peter (Jamie) and Susie Blumenfeld (Todd), cherished 
 MALKIN--Mary Ann O'Brian. Born Altoona, PA March 13, 1913, died NYC July 31, 2005. A graduate of Penn State, Mrs. Malkin was a book collector and supporter of libraries and the dance. With her late husband, Sol. M. Malkin, she published ''AB Bookman's Weekly'' for many years. Memorial servi
 MALONEY--Gayle E., 55, cherished wife of Putnam L. (Chuck) Crafts, Jr., loving daughter of Margaret (dec.) and William A. Maloney of Winnetka, IL; beloved sister of Jennifer O'Brien; Karen Cimino; Maggie Raynard; admired aunt of 14 nieces and nephews; and treasured by many to whom she was t
 RANGELL--Evelyn. 87, of Bloomingburg, NY, adored wife of Meyer Rangell, died July 31. Loved and respected by all, Evelyn was an inspired teacher. BA from Brooklyn College and MA from the University of Rhode Island. Besides her loving husband she leaves three children Mark, Laura, and Elizab
 Dame Cicely Saunders, a founder of the modern hospice movement, died July 14 in the prototype she had built in Britain 38 years ago, St. Christopher's in Sydenham, south London. She was 87. Her death was reported on the hospice's Web site. European hospices go back to the Mi
 KUNICK--Beatrice S., 83. Died unexpectedly at her home in Brooklyn on July 24, 2005. Predeceased by her parents Yetta and Isaac and her sister Regina. Survived by her niece Susan Russo and her family, David, Melinda and Adam. In loving memory. She was a lover of words and music, independent
 MALONEY--Gayle E., 55, cherished wife of Putnam L. (Chuck) Crafts, Jr., loving daughter of Margaret (dec.) and William A. Maloney of Winnetka, IL; beloved sister of Jennifer O'Brien; Karen Cimino; Maggie Raynard; admired aunt of 14 nieces and nephews; and treasured by many to whom she was t
 WIDNEY -- Marilyn Perry. Died August 2, 2005, at age 71, in New York, New York. Her beloved husband, Charles Widney, predeceased her in 1981. She had been host of the TV program International Byline, a series of documentaries on the U.N. and the author of the reference book, Leaders of the 
 HELLER--Barbara Rita. July 11, 1933 to August 3, 2005. Barbara, age 72, of Manhattan, died after a long struggle with cancer. A longtime educational researcher at CUNY, she was co-author of the best selling ''The Only Math Book You'll Ever Need'' as well as a talented painter and jewelry ma
 MALKIN--Mary Ann O'Brian. Born Altoona, PA March 13, 1913, died NYC July 31, 2005. A graduate of Penn State, Mrs. Malkin was a book collector and supporter of libraries and the dance. With her late husband, Sol. M. Malkin, she published ''AB Bookman's Weekly'' for many years. Memorial servi
 McDERMOTT--Jeanne C., 82, died peacefully on August 3, 2005 on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts. Her husband, Frank A. McDermott, Jr., predeceased her in 2003. Devoted mother of Jeanne Cohane, Joan McDermott, Frank McDermott, Jane Bogue, Stephen McDermott, Sheila Sutton and John McDermott. C
 PERSINA--Margaret, 87, passed away on July 22, 2005. A former resident of Hewlett, Long Island, she is survived by her sister Irene Podesta, daughter Mary, sons William and Edward and seven grandchildren. A loving mother and wife, she also devoted thousands of hours to the care and comfort 
 ROBBINS--Benita. 69 of Lido Beach, NY. Passed away on August 4, 2005 after a long courageous battle against breast cancer. Devoted wife to Walter and adoring mother to six children-Jeffrey, Robin, Brian, Lisa, Jill and Debra, and a loving grandmother to seven grandchildren-Rebecca, Caroline
 ROSS -- Eleanor M., died peacefully on August 3, after a short illness. Beloved wife of the late Marvin, cherished mother of Leslie Ross and Alison Ross Nelson, Adored Grandma of Morgan Ross McCord, Spencer Thomas McCord, Scott Lane Shannon, Avery Brooke Shannon and Logan Freer Grant. Lovin
 WIDNEY -- Marilyn Perry. Died August 2, 2005, at age 71, in New York, New York. Her beloved husband, Charles Widney, predeceased her in 1981. She had been host of the TV program International Byline, a series of documentaries on the U.N. and the author of the reference book, Leaders of the 
 Sue Gunter, a pioneering women's college basketball coach who turned Louisiana State University into a national power in a career spanning four decades, died yesterday at her home in Baton Rouge, La. Gunter, a member of two basketball halls of fame, was 66. The cause was res
 GUTNER--Gloria F. (Friedman). 81, of Mamaroneck, NY, died peacefully at home surrounded by loved ones on August 4. Received her undergraduate degree from the College of New Rochelle and a Master's degree in Human Development from Bank St. College. Predeceased by her most beloved husband, Le
 MATHIAK--Cassandra Skouras, died at home in Bradenton, FL Tuesday, July 26 with her beloved husband Mark by her side. Cassandra is the devoted daughter of Barbara and Spyros Skouras, Sr, and the loving sister of Spyros Jr, George and Damaris. Her father was Chairman of Prudential Grace Line
 POLLNER--Rose. On August 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Andrew, devoted mother of Martin and Philip, dearest grandmother of Daniel, Richard, Neil, Lara and Andrew, and cherished by her seven great granddaughters. Her unselfish love and devotion to her family and friends will never be rep
 RAICOVICH--Anna, born Vlacich, August 3, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Giovanni. She is mourned by all who witnessed her dedication to achieve and generosity in helping others. She will live always in the hearts and minds of her children Rino, Gene, Janet Giroveanu, and her grandchildren L
 ROBBINS--Benita. 69 of Lido Beach, NY. Passed away on August 4, 2005 after a long courageous battle against breast cancer. Devoted wife to Walter and adoring mother to six children-Jeffrey, Robin, Brian, Lisa, Jill and Debra, and a loving grandmother to seven grandchildren-Rebecca, Caroline
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Miriam Klein. Jewish educator and scholar, respected and loved, a leading professional in her field. Beloved wife of Saul. Selfless mother of Ephraim, Sara and Jonathan Shuter, Rachel and Barry Kirzner, Sim and Susan, and Rivke Dina. Adoring and adored grandmother of Avishai, B
 WINGATE--Adele, 78, passed away on Friday, August 5 following a nine year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Adele fought this disease was an inspiration to many. The enormity of the loss of this good, kind and gracious lady cannot be expressed in words. Adele is survived by Bill 
 BAUMANN--Barbara Otnow. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Barbara Otnow Baumann, cherished mother of Andrea Baumann Lustig and mother-in-law to Ivan Lustig, esteemed friends who, through their generous support of our organization'
 CARLSON -- Arleen Martin. March 10, 1912 - August 4, 2005. Long-time Minnesota philanthropist and Carlson Companies co-founder Arleen Martin Carlson died August 4 at her home in Minneapolis. She was 93. Arleen was preceded in death by her husband, Curtis L. Carlson. Together, in 1938 on a b
 CITRIN--Evelyn. Age 83, of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on August 5, 2005. Devoted wife to her beloved late husband Philip, loving mother to Barbara and Jack Gattuso, Ava and Michael Dvoretz, Niles and Nancy Citrin. Adored Nana to Suzanne, Brian, Steven, Todd, Jodi, Elise
 FRANCISCUS--Sister Mary. The staff of Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow (OBT) deeply mourns the loss of Sister Mary Franciscus, our beloved founder, executive director and friend. Sister Mary was professed as a Sister of Mercy in 1958 and taught at various schools in Brooklyn. From 1970-1
 GUTNER--Gloria F. (Friedman). 81, of Mamaroneck, NY, died peacefully at home surrounded by loved ones on August 4. Received her undergraduate degree from the College of New Rochelle and a Master's degree in Human Development from Bank St. College. Predeceased by her most beloved husband, Le
 HARRIS--Barbara Spielman, died on August 1, 2005 at the age of 98. Born in New York City on March 14, 1907, she lived her entire life in the city she loved. She retired in 1972 after a long career as a fashion designer. She is survived by her cousin Edward Binnie Thom, his children Binnie a
 HILL--Jane E., age 95, of Old Black Point, Niantic and NYC, died peacefully, July 12, 2005 at Mariner Healthcare at Bridebrook. She was born in NYC May 4, 1910, the daughter of Charles and Sarah Knipe Herrmann. She was the widow of William E. Hill, a management consultant. Mrs. Hill graduat
 KAUFMAN--Anna. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her parents Berl and Joanna, grandparents Sonia and Issac and their families. May her memory be for a blessing and may her loved ones be comforted amids
 KIMBALL--Beatriz Gabaldon. Many will mourn the passing of Beatriz Gabaldon Kimball who died on July 29, 2005, at the age of 87. She died peacefully within 30 hours of suffering a massive stroke from which she did not regain consciousness. Beatriz was a resident of Cambridge, MA., where she 
 LICHTENBERG--Sandra. 76, on August 5. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother to Joan (Lawrence) Zombek and Joseph (Susyn). Adoring grandmother to Michael, Ethan, Matthew, and Amanda. She is also survived by her sisters, Dianne Zacharia and Joyce DeGeorge. She was rich in family and
 MALKIN--Mary Ann O'Brian. Born Altoona, PA March 13, 1913, died NYC July 31, 2005. A graduate of Penn State, Mrs. Malkin was a book collector and supporter of libraries and the dance. With her late husband, Sol. M. Malkin, she published ''AB Bookman's Weekly'' for many years. Memorial servi
 MATHIAK--Cassandra Skouras, died at home in Bradenton, FL Tuesday, July 26 with her beloved husband Mark by her side. Cassandra is the devoted daughter of Barbara and Spyros Skouras, Sr, and the loving sister of Spyros Jr, George and Damaris. Her father was Chairman of Prudential Grace Line
 MOGGIO--Dr. Anna-Maria of Worcester, MA died July 16 at age 69. NYC native. Daughter of the late Louis and Anna (Boselli) Moggio. Graduate of Adelphi with a PhD from Fordham in 19th century French history and politics. After teaching at Georgian Court College in NJ, and Holy Cross and Assum
 MUDGE--Dale Sperry, 1948-2005. Dale Sperry Mudge died July 13, 2005, in Boston, after a three-and-a-half year battle with colon cancer. Born in Danbury, Connecticut, in 1948, Dale is the daughter of the late Barbara Taylor Sperry and the late William Sperry. She graduated from Miss Hall's S
 POLLNER--Rose. On August 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Andrew, devoted mother of Martin and Philip, dearest grandmother of Daniel, Richard, Neil, Lara and Andrew, and cherished by her seven great granddaughters. Her unselfish love and devotion to her family and friends will never be rep
 RAICOVICH--Anna, born Vlacich, August 3, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Giovanni. She is mourned by all who witnessed her dedication to achieve and generosity in helping others. She will live always in the hearts and minds of her children Rino, Gene, Janet Giroveanu, and her grandchildren L
 ROEMER -- Ruth J. (nee Rosenbaum). On August 1, 2005 after a short illness, at age 89. After receiving her law degree from Cornell in 1939, she represented the United Electrical Workers (UE) in Washington during the 1940s, later moving into the field of health law, and over the past 50 year
 ROSS -- Eleanor M., died peacefully on August 3, after a short illness. Beloved wife of the late Marvin, cherished mother of Leslie Ross and Alison Ross Nelson, Adored Grandma of Morgan Ross McCord, Spencer Thomas McCord, Scott Lane Shannon, Avery Brooke Shannon and Logan Freer Grant. Lovin
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Miriam Klein. Jewish educator and scholar, respected and loved, a leading professional in her field. Beloved wife of Saul. Selfless mother of Ephraim, Sara and Jonathan Shuter, Rachel and Barry Kirzner, Sim and Susan, and Rivke Dina. Adoring and adored grandmother of Avishai, B
 SMITH--Jane Lawrence. February 3, 1915 to August 5, 2005. Our beloved Jane died peacefully at her home. Actress, singer. Wife of artist and architect Tony Smith. Mother of artists Kiki & Seton Smith & Beatrice Smith Robinson (July 24, 1955 to August 5, 1988). Grandmother of Antonia Smith Ro
 WINGATE--Adele, 78, passed away on Friday, August 5 following a nine year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Adele fought this disease was an inspiration to all. The enormity of the loss of this good, kind and gracious lady cannot be expressed in words. Adele is survived by Bill &
 WIDES--Ruth. August 10, 2001. Remembered for her love, beauty and sage counsel. She is deeply missed.       
 CARLSON -- Arleen Martin. March 10, 1912 - August 4, 2005. Long-time Minnesota philanthropist and Carlson Companies co-founder Arleen Martin Carlson died August 4 at her home in Minneapolis. She was 93. Arleen was preceded in death by her husband, Curtis L. Carlson. Together, in 1938 on a b
 CITRIN--Evelyn. Age 83, of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Glen Cove, NY, on August 5, 2005. Devoted wife to her beloved late husband Philip, loving mother to Barbara and Jack Gattuso, Ava and Michael Dvoretz, Niles and Nancy Citrin. Adored Nana to Suzanne, Brian, Steven, Todd, Jodi, Elise
 FONER--Liza. Died July 11, 2005, two days before her 96th birthday. A woman of independent spirit, artistic creativity and social commitment, she graduated from Hunter College in 1929 and taught art in New York City high schools from 1936 to 1955. She worked closely with Joseph Solman in hi
 GARFINKLE -- Susan Cole man. 62. Passed away on Saturday August 6 following a two year battle with pancreatic cancer. She died on her own terms surrounded by her loving family in her home. Susan passed exactly the way she lived, with an inspirational amount of strength and dignity. Although
 GROSSMAN -- Anna. The most wonderful mother a son could have. Loved by her late daughters-in-law Patricia and Barbara, her entire family and anyone who had the good fortune to know her. Services private. Gerald, Carl and Alice Grossman GROSSMAN -- Anna. The Trustees of the Grossman 
 MATHIAK--Cassandra Skouras, died at home in Bradenton, FL Tuesday, July 26 with her beloved husband Mark by her side. Cassandra is the devoted daughter of Barbara and Spyros Skouras, Sr, and the loving sister of Spyros Jr, George and Damaris. Her father was Chairman of Prudential Grace Line
 ROBBINS--Megan. 28. Beloved daughter of Barbara Robbins (Phil), sister of Jacqueline, step-sister of Andrea Barna, step-daughter of Steven Barna, sister-in-law of Dennis Smith. Adoring, and adored aunt, to Julia and Fiona, cherished great-niece of Gertrude Goodmark. Beloved ''daughter'' of 
 SHAPIRO -- Dr. Miriam. Young Israel of White Plains mourns the loss of Dr. Miriam Shapiro, mother of our President Sim Shapiro and wife of our member, Dr. Saul Shapiro. Teacher, wife, mother, and grandmother. An extraordinary role model and inspiration to our community, she will be greatly 
 SMITH--Jane Lawrence. February 3, 1915 to August 5, 2005. Our beloved Jane died peacefully at her home. Actress, singer. Wife of artist and architect Tony Smith. Mother of artists Kiki & Seton Smith & Beatrice Smith Robinson (July 24, 1955 to August 5, 1988). Grandmother of Antonia Smith Ro
 TRAU--Peggy. Peacefully, at age 93, on Saturday, August 6. Widow of Fillip. Beloved aunt of Fritzi and Herbert Owens and Ilse and Curtis Hecht. She was a great aunt to Robert, Ruth and Mark Owens, as well as Richard Hecht and their children. A Holocaust survivor from Poland, she escaped to 
 WINGATE--Adele, 78, passed away on Friday, August 5 following a nine year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Adele fought this disease was an inspiration to all. The enormity of the loss of this good, kind and gracious lady cannot be expressed in words. Adele is survived by Bill &
 GEFFIN--Wendy. August 6, 2005 following surgery. Born May 13, 1960, raised Flushing, Queens, graduated SUNY Stony Brook, she made a career in information and media technology. Survived by parents Corine Petry, Gerry Geffin, siblings Trudy Hetzel, Paul S. Levine, partner Philip Thurston, nie
 GROSSMAN--Anna. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Anna Grossman, an esteemed benefactor and friend whose exemplary commitment to the Jewish community through the Grossman Foundation marked a life dedicated to tikkun olam. Anna's l
 KAELBER--Hannah. Beloved sister and sister-in-law of George and Ilse Falk, cherished aunt and great aunt, passed away August 5, 2005. Born Moringen, Germany, August 25, 1911, and became a citizen of the U.S. on February 24, 1944. May her memory be an enduring inspiration to her family and f
 KRAUT--Alice F. 83. On Sunday, August 7, 2005. Survived by sons, Curtis and Glen. Predeceased by her husband Oscar. Raised in Stelton, New Jersey, Alice later moved to Manhattan, where she raised her family while attaining her Bachelor's and Master's degrees in education, from Brooklyn Coll
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Miriam Klein. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester joins the New York Jewish community in mourning the death of our friend and teacher Dr. Miriam Klein Shapiro. Miriam was the mother of five graduates, wife of Saul, a founding trustee, a past President of our PTA, and wa
 VOGELMAN--Claire. who was known in the fashion world as Claire Newman, passed away at Lenox Hill Hospital on August 7th, 2005. Born in Stamford, CT on October 19th, 1911. She grew up in Westchester County as a child of the Great Depression, she launched her career as a fasion designer in th
 WINGATE--Adele, 78, passed away on Friday, August 5 following a nine year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Adele fought this disease was an inspiration to all. The enormity of the loss of this good, kind and gracious lady cannot be expressed in words. Adele is survived by Bill &
 GETZ GRINNELL -- Ileen, adored and adoring wife to Mark Grinnell, mother to Alice and Max, daughter of the late Lawrence and Esta Getz, sister to Jerry Getz and beloved friend to many, passed away from cancer on Thursday, August 4, 2005 at St. Vincent's Medical Center in NYC. Originally fro
 VOGELMAN--Claire. who was known in the fashion world as Claire Newman, passed away at Lenox Hill Hospital on August 7th, 2005. Born in Stamford, CT on October 19th, 1911. She grew up in Westchester County as a child of the Great Depression, she launched her career as a fasion designer in th
 Barbara Bel Geddes, a critically acclaimed stage, screen and television actress known for her work with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950's and, more recently, for her role as Miss Ellie, the matriarch of the fractious Ewing clan on the long-running nighttime soap opera ''Dallas,'' died on Monda
 Judith Rossner, a novelist who used crisp, piercing prose to tell of women pushed to often grotesque extremes, most famously in her 1975 book ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 70. The cause was not immediately de
 CIARDI--Alexandra Morgan. 48, died suddenly August 10 in a boating accident in Sardinia, Italy. She was a resident of London, Porto Ercole and NY. Born in NYC she graduated from The Brearley School, Tufts University and Columbia Business School. She was a path breaking business woman on Wal
 McLENDON--Laurie Nelson. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourn the loss of Laurie Nelson McLendon, daughter of Board member, Heath McLendon and wife Judith. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A. Zurack
 RYAN--Alice Ross, on August 9, 2005. Her 90 years of life are celebrated by the hundreds of people that loved her, and her special cats, Barnum and Bailey. At her request there will be no services. We will always miss her.       
 TISHMAN--Susan Weisberg. The Board, staff and artists of Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, offer their condolences to the Tishman family on the passing of Susan Tishman. We honor the extraordinary commitment and generosity the Tishmans have shown to our great city. Their work helping LMCC a
 WACHTLER--Phyllis. August 10, 2005. Devoted wife to her beloved late husband of 61 years, Morty. Loving mother to Jay and Robin Wachtler, Jill and Richard Levine, Ellen and Jimmy Wachtler. Adored grandmother to Jeffrey, Andrew, Jared, Hillary and Josh. She was known for her grand sense of s
 Helen L. Phillips, a lyric-dramatic soprano who preceded Marian Anderson in breaking color barriers at the Metropolitan Opera and elsewhere in the 1940's and 50's, died on July 27 in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was heart failure, her nurse
 BREW STURDY--Mary Pat, 46, of Newton, NJ, on August 10, 2005. Mother of Robert E. Sturdy. Sister of John, Paul T., Gerard G. and George T. Brew. Fiancee of the late James A. Romito, Chief of Port Authority Police Dept. who died in the World Trade Center, 9/11/01, who was the love of her lif
 CIARDI--Alexandra Morgan. 48, died suddenly August 10 in a boating accident in Sardinia, Italy. She was a resident of London, Porto Ercole and NY. Born in NYC she graduated from The Brearley School, Tufts University and Columbia Business School. She was a path breaking business woman on Wal
 FINKSTEIN--Marie. Passed away August 11, 2005. Beloved mother of Nancy Bowen (Douglas). Beloved sister of Estelle Webb. She will be greatly missed. She was an inspiration to all who knew her for her courage and fighting ability in the face of such adversity. Services will be held at Hirsch 
 GARWIN -- Esther. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Most loved mother of Ellen Makofsky (Marvin) and Judith Bruce (Gary). Adored by her grandchildren Sari McConnell (Blake), Robert Makofsky (Rachel), Rebecca Bruce and Daniel Bruce. Great grandmother and friend of many. ''She walked in beauty
 ROSSNER--Judith. March 31, 1935--August 9, 2005. Of complications from leukemia and diabetes. Survived by her devoted husband, Stanley Leff; her children, Jean and Daniel (Liz), and grandchildren, Jacob, Matthew and Izabella. Generous and loving sister of Nancy Pike (Rayner), aunt of Nina, 
 SACKSON--Carol M. Age 78, loving wife of Murray for 60 years, died of pancreatic cancer on August 11, 2005. She loved music, traveling, theatre and Manhattan, as well as enjoying winters in Florida. Carol will be remembered for her intelligence, gentleness, and her beautiful way of life.   
 LONDON--Anna. On August 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Leon London. Loving mother of Allen London, Arlene Alter and Norman London. Dearest grandmother and great-grandmother. Service Sunday 1 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions to the Anti-Defamation League, 82
 SCHWARTZ--Rose, 97, formerly of Far Rockaway, NY, North Miami Beach, and Boca Raton, FL, passed away peacefully on August 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Moe Schwartz. Rose was chairman of the United Parents Association of the Rockaways and past President of the City of Hope of North Mia
 Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1
 BRACHMAN -- Susan Grop per. She was loving and was loved. We will miss her. Judy, Ira, Roni, Doug & Leslie       
 COE--Elice James. Beloved sister, niece, aunt and friend died unexpectedly in her sleep Thursday, July 14, 2005, at her home in Pasadena, CA. She was 52 years old. She is survived by her aunt Sylvia Tolk and Rosalie Weir, her siblings Nancy Bell Coe, Cynthia Devine and J.T. Coe and Alexandr
 FINKSTEIN--Marie. Passed away August 11, 2005. Beloved mother of Nancy Bowen (Douglas). Beloved sister of Estelle Webb. She will be greatly missed. She was an inspiration to all who knew her for her courage and fighting ability in the face of such adversity. Services will be held at Hirsch 
 KAPLAN -- Ginette Leder man. On Sunday August 7 in her 103rd year. Beloved wife of the late Georges Kaplan. Cherished mother of Liliane (Robert) Schiff and Serge (Adrienne) Lederman. Devoted stepmother of Monique (Irwin) Winsten, Nicole (Jerome B.) Alenick and Jacques (Violaine) Kaplan, and
 KORNBLAU -- Virginia. 82, died August 5, 2005. Predeceased by husband David. Survived by daughters Andrea (Hugh) Siegman, Linda Kornblau, a sister Cecily (Bob) Harris, and grandchildren Ethan Anderson, Emma and Remy Bernstein. She left with our love and our prayers for peace.       
 LANDAU--Ruthe E. age 82 of Coconut Creek, Fla, formerly of Teaneck, NJ on August 5, 2005. Devoted wife to her beloved late husband, Malvin, loving mother to Ted and Debbie, dear grandmother to Brian, Mallory and Jason.       
 LONDON--Anna. On August 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Leon London. Loving mother of Allen London, Arlene Alter and Norman London. Dearest grandmother and great-grandmother. Service Sunday 1 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions to the Anti-Defamation League, 82
 MILLER--Sylvia. On August 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Elliott Miller. Loving mother of her late son, Andrew Miller. She is survived by her loving son, Dr. Leslie Miller, his fiancee, Debi Benoit, and her devoted sister, Miriam Efron. Funeral services were held Friday. Donations i
 ROSSNER--Judith. March 31, 1935--August 9, 2005. Of complications from leukemia and diabetes. Survived by her devoted husband, Stanley Leff; her children, Jean and Daniel (Liz), and grandchildren, Jacob, Matthew and Izabella. Generous and loving sister of Nancy Pike (Rayner), aunt of Nina, 
 SCHWARTZ--Irma. On August 13, 2005, at age 70. Beloved sister of Miriam Gelband (Joseph F.). Loving aunt of Nina Zubiel (Stan), Patrice Gelband (Steve Shenker) and Joseph F. Gelband Jr. Cherished great aunt of Matthew Zubiel. Loyal friend to all who knew her. Friends may call at Frank E. Ca
 SCHWARTZ--Rose, 97, formerly of Far Rockaway, NY, North Miami Beach, and Boca Raton, FL, passed away peacefully on August 11, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Moe Schwartz. Rose was chairman of the United Parents Association of the Rockaways and past President of the City of Hope of North Mia
 SIMON--Helen K. (Flowers), of Manhattan, died peacefully on August 12, 2005, at the age of 94. Wife of the late H. Theodore Simon of New York, and secondly of the late James P. Flowers. She is survived by her only child, her daughter Elaine Simon Ward (Mrs. Ralph E. Ward) of Darien, CT, and
 TISHMAN--Suzanne. Suzanne Weisberg Tishman passed away on August 8, 2005 after a prolonged illness. She is survived by her husband, John L. Tishman, and their children, Daniel R. Tishman and Katherine T. Blacklock, Daniel's wife Sheryl, as well as three beloved grandchildren, Joshua and Gab
 VOGELMAN--Claire. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel and Shenkar College of Engineering and Design note with sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Claire Vogelman, Governor and Honorary Fellow of the College, and Past President of the American Committee. Dedicated to enri
 GALLER--Beatrice. Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc. remembers a dear friend and colleague Bea Galler. Bea was a cherished wife of the late William Galler, and the beloved mother of Lynne and Marc Perry, of blessed memory. As a member of the Society of Major Donors,
 CIARDI--Alexandra. We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of our lifetime friend, Alex. Her star will forever shine bright in our hearts. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Audrey and Jimmy, Jill, Bruce and John       
 RUDDY--Patricia M. Passed away on August 12, 2005. A native New Yorker, Ms. Ruddy was born on New Year's Eve of 1926. After attending the College of New Rochelle, NYU and Columbia, she began a pioneering career in New York's public schools, working mostly as a principal. Despite being small
 SCHER--Ann. 73, died after a long fight with lung cancer. She is survived by her loving sister and mentor Lillian Greene, and her brother Morris Scher. She is also survived by her nephew Marty Greene. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the American Cancer Society.       
 SIMON--Helen K. (Flowers), of Manhattan, died peacefully on August 12, 2005, at the age of 94. Wife of the late H. Theodore Simon of New York, and secondly of the late James P. Flowers. She is survived by her only child, her daughter Elaine Simon Ward (Mrs. Ralph E. Ward) of Darien, CT, and
 VOORHEES--Natalie Ross. 85, of Woodstock, VT, died August 8, 2005. Born February 2, 1920, in NYC to Roland T. and Ruth (Huggins) Ross. Survived by four children; Roland P. Voorhees, Anita V. Austin, Willard Ross Voorhees, Natalie V. Miller; also five grandchildren. Predeceased by her husban
 BERNSTEIN--Sylvia. Peacefully passed away on August 14, 2005 in the 92nd year of her blessed life at home with her loving children present. Beloved wife of the late Moe. Loving mother of Alan and Patricia Bernstein, and Laurie and Aaron Schwinger. Adoring grandmother of Katie, Jessica, Zach
 CRONER--Ted. Photographer. On August 15, 2005 at age 82. Photographer. Loving father of Catherine M. Croner and her husband Brandt Bolding. Brother of Stanley Croner. Interment private.       
 HUGHES--Norah (O'Brien). Chairman and CEO, age 56, of Bernardsville, NJ on August 14, 2005. Beloved wife of Gary L. Hughes, daughter of Mabel O'Brien of Denville and the late William J. O'Brien, sister of William O'Brien of Syracuse, NY and Kathleen Piper of Warrenton, VA, also survived by 
 KRAMER--Lola. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Lola & Saul Kramer Senior Services Agency located on the Marilyn & Stanley M. Katz Seniors Campus, mark with great sadness the passing of Lola Kramer, the namesake of our agency and a leader in our Jewish community. Her unwaver
 ROLLER - Mildred. Died peacefully on August 15 after a long, brave struggle. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years, Abraham, and her children Cheryl (William) Hurwitz and Marc Roller, grandsons Ian and David Bassin, her devoted brother Philip Rosen, wife Rita and many nieces and
 SIMON--Helen K. (Flowers), of Manhattan, died peacefully on August 12, 2005, at the age of 94. Wife of the late H. Theodore Simon of New York, and secondly of the late James P. Flowers. She is survived by her only child, her daughter Elaine Simon Ward (Mrs. Ralph E. Ward) of Darien, CT, and
 WEI--Waling Chung. Died on August 12, 2005, in Princeton, New Jersey. Born in China on May 10, 1909, Waling grew up in Shanghai, where she met her husband, the late Tseh Heen Wei. She moved to this country with her family in 1941. She lived in Bronxville, NY, until 1971, and resided in Manh
 CUDDIHY--Joan G. On August 15, 2005, of Bay Shore, L.I., after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Beloved wife of the late Paul R. Cuddihy, Jr. Devoted mother of Paul R. Cuddihy III and the late Hope Cuddihy. Dear sister of Carole G. Baxter of Santa Monica, California, and the late Clar
 GOLDSCHMIDT--Minna. 95, formerly of Eastchester, NY died peacefully at home on August 15, 2005 in Tucson, AZ. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Goldschmidt. She is survived by her loving children, Steven, Carolyn and Joan; her cherished grandson, Garrett; and many dear friends and relatives.
 HAYS-GIBSON--Nancy Spencer. Died peacefully at age 87 at the Carmel Valley Manor, Carmel, CA. on August 15, 2005. Devoted and loving wife of Cornelius Lansing Hays, Jr. who died in 1982, and Lyle Gibson who died in 1996. Loving mother of Lansing, Spencer, Priscilla (Sutton) and Stephen, mot
 LINKER--Miriam. Of Rehovot, Israel formerly of Scarsdale, NY passed away quietly in her sleep at age 87 on Thursday, August 11 after visiting the Jewish Quarter of Prague, where she was travelling with her daughter, Naomi Yanis. Miriam also leaves a brother, Seymour Wolf; a son Prof. Charle
 MCKEIGE--Sarah B. (Sally) of Stuart, FL, and Montauk, NY, died peacefully at her Montauk home on August 14th. She is survived by her husband of 51 years, Bruce; children Douglas McKeige, and Connie McKeige Localio; and five grandchildren. A Skidmore graduate, she acquired a Master's Degree 
 MITCHELL--Sarah ''Sally'', M.D. Age 83. Died August 10, 2005 after a brief illness. Cum Laude graduate of Bryn Mawr. Graduate Cornell Medical School, third in class, 1947. Worked for New York Hospital, Westchester Division, Westchester County Department of Mental Health. Survived by husband
 ROLLER -- Mildred. Died peacefully on August 15 after a long, brave struggle. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years, Abraham, and her children Cheryl (William) Hurwitz and Marc Roller, grandsons Ian and David Bassin, her devoted brother Philip Rosen, wife Rita and many nieces an
 SIMON--Frieda (nee Goldstein). Of Aventura, FL. Died August 16, 2005 in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Alexander. Loving mother of Arthur and Belle, and Harriet and Stanley Kottick. Devoted grandmother of Douglas and Susan, Clifford and Karen, Eric and Terry, Andrea and Ron Neuman,
 WEIN--Joyce, 76. Beloved wife of George Wein, passed away due to complications resulting from cancer, on Monday, August 15. Simmons College graduate and former biochemist. Partner and advisor with her husband for the Newport Opera Festival, Newport Jazz Festival, New Orleans Jazz & Heritage
 Joyce Wein, a former vice president of the company that produced the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals and numerous other events, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital on the Upper East Side. She was 76 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, said a spokeswom
 COOPER--Lucille H. April 26, 1921--August 12, 2005, in Los Angeles. Beloved wife of the late Norman Cooper (deceased 1978) and mother of Harriet Cooper, mother-inlaw of Neil Soltman, cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Joanna Cooper Soltman. Devoted daughter of the late Benjamin and Regin
 CUTLER--Claire Mintz, attorney at law, died peacefully on August 12, 2005 at her Manhattan home after a long illness. She was 86 years of age. A graduate of Hunter College, Class of 1939 and Brooklyn Law School, Class of 1942. She was the beloved wife and law partner of the late Max Cutler,
 HAYS-GIBSON--Nancy Spencer. Died peacefully at age 87 at the Carmel Valley Manor, Carmel, CA. on August 15, 2005. Devoted and loving wife of Cornelius Lansing Hays, Jr. who died in 1982, and Lyle Gibson who died in 1996. Loving mother of Lansing, Spencer, Priscilla (Sutton) and Stephen, mot
 KNESZ--Olga Marie. 87. Died August 14. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Loving mother of Barbara & Ingrid. Grandmother of Laurie and Samantha. Great grandmother of Jessica. Melissa, Christina and Alexa. She will be missed muchly. Funeral Mass to beld Friday, August 19, 9:30 AM, St, Andrew Av
 LAVITT--Pauline K. The loving wife of Paul P. Lavitt has passed away after a long illness. She is also survived by: son Howard and his wife Jodi, their children Brett, Jacqueline and Austin of Ryebrook, NY; son Arthur and his wife Julie, their children Jake and Brandon of Charlotte, NC; her
 WEIN--Joyce, 76. Beloved wife of George Wein, passed away due to complications resulting from cancer, on Monday, August 15. Simmons College graduate and former biochemist. Partner and advisor with her husband for the Newport Opera Festival, Newport Jazz Festival, New Orleans Jazz & Heritage
 ROTHSTEIN--Gertrude. In Miami, FL., on August 17, 2005. Widow of Manuel Rothstein. Beloved mother of Jerry Rothstein (Cynthia) and Judy Weinstein (Arthur). Also survived by sister Hilda Soule, brother Marvin Buxbaum, her grandchildren Stephen and Marc Weinstein and Michael, Lori and Meryl R
 CIARDI--Alexandra Morgan. The Tufts University community is deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed alumna, friend, and benefactor, Alexandra Ciardi. Mrs. Ciardi's friends at Tufts recognize her many contributions to society as a business leader, patron of the arts, and philanthropist. 
 FRANKEL--Marcia, 81, of Paramus, NJ, on August 18, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Survived by her children Michael (Joan) Frankel, and Sandi (Robert) Friedman, and cherished grandchildren Ethan, Elizabeth, Abigail, Sarah, Daniel and Jonathan. Services today, 1PM at Robert Schoem's
 RINGER -- Rosalind, the daughter of the late Herman Strizver and Tina Greenfield Strizver. Sister of the late Vera Volner. Beloved and cherished mother of Verna Lynn Awakawa and Louise Deborah Kromm. Survived by her son-in-law Yoshiaki Awakawa. Four grandchildren, David Robert Kromm (Criste
 WEIN -- Joyce. The New School mourns the loss of Joyce Wein, beloved wife of Jazz Board member, George Wein. Lifelong jazz partner, dedicated arts advocate and co-recipient with George of the 1999 Beacons in Jazz Award, the arts and jazz community has truly lost a shining light. We extend h
 Mo Mowlam, the earthy, straight-talking politician who as Britain's Northern Ireland secretary helped negotiate the Good Friday peace settlement in 1998, died Friday morning at a hospice in Canterbury, her family said. She was 55. Unsteady on her feet at times as a result of radioth
 ALTFEST--Beth, 59, died peacefully on August 19, 2005 surrounded by family and friends. She was a mother, wife, daughter, sister, and friend who deeply touched the lives of all who knew her. Her wit, candor, selflessness, generosity and most of all, the bravery with which she fought her ill
 ALTFEST--Beth, 59, died peacefully on August 19, 2005 surrounded by family and friends. She was a mother, wife, daughter, sister, and friend who deeply touched the lives of all who knew her. Her wit, candor, selflessness, generosity and most of all, the bravery with which she fought her ill
 DIAMOND--Eva. Died peacefully at home, August 10, 2005, after a long illness. She was 82 years old. She was born in Hanover, Germany. Her father, Edmund Lillienstern, died when she was nine, and she came to the United States at age 13, with her mother, a U.S. citizen by birth. Eva spoke no 
 HELTON -- Mary (Goodell), Director Emeritus of the Hoff - Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale, NY, died on August 13, after a long illness, at the age of 78. She was recognized throughout the country as an extraordinary leader in the field of music education. Mrs. Helton joined the faculty
 MAHIN -- Stephanie Benet. Daughter of the late Stephen Vincent and Rosemary Carr Benet, died August 19, at her home, 55 Cleveland St., Arlington, MA 02474. She attended the Brearley School in New York City, Swarthmore College, and was a graduate of the Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital School 
 MONTE--Frances Rose (nee Guarino). Died peacefully on August 19, 2005 at the age of 91. Wife of the late Barney (Sebastian) Monte. Predeceased by her beloved daughter Josephine Marashlian (Gregory). Devoted mother to Paul (Carol), Fortune (Angela) and Carol Cilmi (Dominick). Adoring grandmo
 UNGER--Dorothy Mary (nee Sousa). Born in Boston, May 30, 1919. Emerson College Class of 1943, School of Oratory; M.A. in Speech Pathology from NYU. Life member of the American Speech and Hearing Association. Practiced speech and learning disability therapy until 2003. Beloved wife of the la
 Jane Lawrence Smith, an actress and singer and the widow of the architect and sculptor Tony Smith, died on Aug. 5 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 90. Her death was announced by her family. Ms. Smith was one of the last survivors of the central circle of Abstract Ex
 KAUFMANN--Elsa (Steiner). Peacefully passed away at age 99 on August 20, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Milton, loving mother of Mark and wife Carole and Donald and wife Lillian. Devoted grandmother of Jon and wife Amy; Susan and husband Alan Lewis; Andrew; Jeffrey and wife Randi; and Rache
 MAHIN -- Stephanie Benet. Daughter of the late Stephen Vincent and Rosemary Carr Benet, died August 19, at her home, 55 Cleveland St., Arlington, MA 02474. She attended the Brearley School in New York City, Swarthmore College, and was a graduate of the Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital School 
 McNAMARA--Agnes L. Of Lynbrook, NY, died on August 19, 2005, at her home. She was 87. Born May 13, 1918, in Brooklyn, NY, to Timothy and Katherine McNamara. She was dearly loved by her two brothers and sisters-in-law: Joseph McNamara and Dorothy, and Francis and Agnes, who predeceased her. 
 ROTHSTEIN - Sam. With great sadness and deep feelings of loss we mourn the passing of Sam (Sunny), a gentle man, a special friend. Our hearts go out to Gloria and her family at this time. Bea & Sid Siegel Sherry & Stan Keller       
 STEIN--Felice. Her dear family and many friends are saddened by her passing on August 19, 2005, in her home. Felice, beloved wife of the late Aaron, a lover of life and family, battled cancer for eighteen years with courage and optimism. She is survived by her daughter, Carla Stein Duby and
 BILLER--Estelle. On August 16, 2005, beloved wife of the late Ralph Biller, devoted mother of Scott, cherished sister to Jack and Albie Kapian. Grandmother of Erin and Blaise Biller, lucky enough to have a daughterin-law who became her daughter (Pattie). All donations to Hospice of the Vall
 BRODIN--Dorothy R. On August 20, 2005 age 87. Widow of Dr. Pierre Brodin, former Director, Lycee Francais de New York and noted scholar of modern French literature. Graduate of Bryn Mawr College, MA, Ph.d, Columbia University. For nearly thirty years a beloved teacher of French at Hunter Co
 de BARY--Patricia, noted community leader and beloved wife of Marquette de Bary, died peacefully, at her home in New York, Sunday, August 21, of natural causes. She was born on June 19, 1919, in Atlanta, Georgia, to Elizabeth Sturgis Murrill and Hugh Ambrose Murrill. She had three siblings:
 KANTER--Burton, age 57. Son of Laura and the late Irving Kanter. Father of William. Brother of Renee (Joel). Uncle of Allison (David), Meridith, Nicole and Lauren. Companion of Susan Sommers. Service 10 AM, on Tuesday, August 23, at the Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck. $(
 MILLER--Ruth. The entire Yeshiva University family is grieved by the passing, in Israel, of the Ayshet Chayil, the beloved wife of the late lamented Rabbi Dr. Israel Miller, and cherished mother of Rabbi David (and Miriam) Miller; RIETS' Benjamin and Charlotte Gottesfeld Professor of Talmud
 URIST--Elsie. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our long time member, Elsie Urist. We will miss her loyalty to our Congregation. Our deepest sympathy to her son, Carl and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D. Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President       
 FIELDING - SCHEFTEL -- Yol ande. Born in Paris in 1920. Died at her home in NYC on August 22, 2005 at the age of 85. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Scheftel. Widow also of Jack F. Fielding. Survived by daughters, Francoise Fielding of San Francisco and Cynthia Fielding-Singh (Arvind Singh
 de BARY--Patricia M. The Board, staff and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and esteemed Board member Patricia de Bary. Pat was untiring in her devotion to The Botanical Garden, playing a leading role in The Garden's renaissance over
 HEIMBERG--Susie R. Her goodness and generous spirit will remain with us forever. Carol, Gabriele and Family       
 REBELL--Adele S., 62, surrounded by her family, passed away on August 23, 2005. Her will to live could not defeat MDS. Her zest for life was incredible. A true leader, amongst her friends and family, she served as president of Temple Israel in Ridgewood NJ, Hadassah and the Women's NJ Bar A
 WEIN--Joyce. The SLE Lupus Foundation mourns the loss of an extraordinary and committed friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to her loving husband, George, and to the Festival family. Susan Golick, Founder Richard K. DeScherer, President       
 FIELDING - SCHEFTEL -- Yol ande. Born in Paris in 1920. Died at her home in NYC on August 22, 2005 at the age of 85. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Scheftel. Widow also of Jack F. Fielding. Survived by daughters, Francoise Fielding of San Francisco and Cynthia Fielding-Singh (Arvind Singh
 Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. Susan Vail, a longtime friend, confirmed the death.    
 WEISSBERG - Snooks (Fe bruary 5, 1920 to August 25, 2005). Loving wife of Ned Weissberg for 58 years. Snooks (nee Augusta Reitman) was a mother of three. She was a fiercely loyal wife, mother and friend, possessing a feisty zest for life and a singular sense of humor. Snooks died peacefully
 WISNEY--Lucy C. (nee Costa). Age 89, died Wednesday, August 24, 2005. She is survived by her daughter Alice Di Filippe, son Dominick Di Filippe, sisters Rosalie Munro and Grace Scatto, brother Carmine Costa, and many nieces and nephews. Information: M. David DeMarco Funeral Home, 732-521-05
 ABRAMS--Adelaide, died August 16 at her home in Boca Raton, Florida. Formerly of Brookville, Long Island, she was born in Brooklyn on August 24, 1923. Predeceased by her husband of 54 years, Ted, and daughter Amy, Adelaide is survived by her sons, Steven and Brian Abrams, and her daughter S
 BURNS--Catherine T. (nee McGarr) died on August 26th, 2005 in Brooklyn, NY. Mrs. Burns was born on September 7th, 1916 in Manhattan, NY and is predeceased by her beloved mother Mary Rooney McGarr and father William J. McGarr and her brothers William McGarr, Joseph McGarr, Father Charles Hol
 CIVIN--Sylvia. 89 years old. Passed away peacefully on August 23, 2005 in Fresh Meadows, Queens. Beloved wife of the late Louis and mother of Margaret and the late Matthew. Adored grandmother of Jonathan, Joshua and wife Rachel. Devoted English teacher. Friend to all. Lover of books and wor
 de BARY--Patricia, noted community leader and beloved wife of Marquette de Bary, died peacefully, at her home in New York, Sunday, August 21, of natural causes. She was born on June 19, 1919, in Atlanta, Georgia, to Elizabeth Sturgis Murrill and Hugh Ambrose Murrill. She had three siblings:
 EDWARDS--Vivian J. 90. Episcopal Missionary and Educator died August 19, Providence, RI. Born Brooklyn, NY. Graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University's Teachers College. With her late husband, Rev. Seth C. Edwards, was a missionary in Liberia, West Africa for 30 years. She was pr
 LOVETT--Dorothy. 92, died August 25, 2005 in Sarasota, FL. Beloved mother of Susan and Joel Cantos, and grandmother of Lisa Cantos. Donations in her memory to Hospice of Southwest Florida.       
 McCABE--Margaret Ellen ''Nini'', age 53, died August 24, 2005 in Fairfield, CT. after a long illness. She was born October 29, 1951, Cuernavaca, Mexico to Charles Raymond McCabe, a former columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle, and Margaret Ellen ''Peg'' Scripps Buzzelli. Nini was a grea
 OGDEN--Margaret Lewars. Died on August 22, 2005 in Gladwyne, PA at the age of 84. She is survived by her twin sister, Mrs. Katharine Lewars duPont Weymouth of Wilmington, DE; her five children, Raymond Ogden, Southern Pines, NC, J.H. ''Denny'' Ogden, Jr., Greenwich, CT, Marquis English, New
 ROSENTHAL--Shirley. December 14, 1918--August 24, 2005. Beloved aunt, cherished friend, Brooklyn College graduate, Lighthouse volunteer, owner of Shirley Rose Gowns, where she dressed New York's most stylish women. Off on your next adventure, Auntie Mame.       
 STERN--Rose (nee Goldstein). Loving wife of the late Louis Stern. Adored mother of Gloria Lubin and Joel Stern. Grandmother of Caryn Silver, Mitchell Zingman, Andrew Stern and Zoe SternGanz. Great-grandmother of Douglas Silver, Beth Pilchik and Alona Silver and Marcy and Niki Zingman. Died 
 SUSSMAN--Judge Ruth Levine. Acting Supreme Court Justice in New York County, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 46 years old and died after a courageous 71/2 year battle with breast cancer. Judge Sussman had been on the bench since 1995. She was a respected jurist, known for h
 TRAISTER--Phyllis Kaplan. August 7, 1911-August 26, 2005. She was the wife of the late William Kaplan and the late Paul Traister. Loving mother of Edythe Goldberger and Abraham Kaplan. Mother-in-law to Helene Kaye Kaplan and Fred Goldberger. Grandmother of Helen, Andrew, Mitchell and Jordan
 WARREN--Hazel. Died at her home in Cove Neck, Long Island on August 26, 2005. Beloved wife of Thomas for 41 years; and mother of her daughters, Kamala and Jennifer. Services will be held Tuesday, 2:00 p.m. at St. Dominick Church, Oyster Bay.       
 ZILAHY -- Piroska Barczy, wife of the late Lajos and mother of the late Michael, born in Budapest, Hungary, March 9, 1907, died peacefully at Pawtucket, Rhode Island, on August 7. A funeral mass was celebrated in Pawtucket and her body was cremated for later burial in Hungary.       
 LITTMAN--Madeline, on August 27, 2005. Beloved wife of Charles. Beloved mother of Ryan and Tara Littman. She was a warm, loving and wonderful person. Services will be held 11:45, Monday, August 29, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 NEAHER -- Catherine King. June 13, 1915-August 19, 2005. Widow of U.S. District Judge Edward R. Neaher (Eastern District), sister of Ann and Eugene King, mother of Nancy (James Maas), Rosemary, Virginia (Stuart Pape) and Edward Jr. (Francesca Mengarelli). She also leaves eight grandchildren
 ROSEN--Ray, 93 years, died August 26 in Los Angeles, CA. Devoted wife of the late William A. Rosen. Loving mother of Judy (Barry) Wollman and the late Susan (Ted) Curran. Adored grandmother of Elaine Mura of Piedmont, CA, Nancy Albinger of Marietta, GA and Wendy Globerman of Los Angeles, CA
 SCHWARTZ--Rosaline. Devoted mother of Stuart and Felice. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be missed.       
 FILBERT--Milly. Died August 26, 2005 after a short illness with cancer in Florida, where she had lived for the past 26 years. Her funeral will be in Boca Raton. She was a beautiful, strong, courageous, brilliant and warm human being and will be deeply missed by her sister Toni Auspitz, her 
 KILFOIL--Ellean T., 73. Died August 27, 2005. Survived by her daughters, Barbara Kilfoil and Mary and her husband Julian O. Elevado and granddaughter Megan. Services are private. D'Elia Funeral Home, Lakewood, NJ.       
 LEVESQUE -- Therese A., Ph.D. Died August 28, 2005 after a prolonged illness. Born May 8, 1917 in West Warwick, R.I. to J. Wilfred Levesque & Mathilda Smith Levesque. A longtime resident of Nyack, New York, she was predeceased by her brother Lucien of Coventry. R.I. and sister Vivian Heeber
 MORAKIS--Betty P. Died August 27, 2005 at the age of 69. A courageous seven-and-ahalf-year battle with cancer has finally ended, leaving behind her beloved husband, James, New York, and her three cherished sons, Lee, New York, Todd, Japan, and Jay, New York. Throughout Betty's struggle, her
 STILL--Patricia. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art note with sadness the death of Patricia Still, a generous benefactor. In anticipation of the opening of the Metropolitan's Lila Acheson Wallace Wing for modern art, she donated in 1986 ten canvases by her late husband
 FORGAN--Marianne. Died August 27, 2005 at the age of 103. Mrs. Forgan (nee Pollak) was predeceased by her adoring husband of sixty years, the late Ernest Forgan, and her beloved daughter, the late Eva Merkel, and sonin-law, the late Edgar Merkel. Known as ''Omi'' to her immediate family, Mr
 OFFENBERG RASHTY--Lois of New York & Boynton Beach Florida died peacefully at age 64 on August 26, 2005. Beloved partner of John Moloney. Loving sister of Sandy Silver, Carole Kissel Cameron & Mona Joy Roth, & cherished aunt & friend. She will be deeply missed by her family & friends, her d
 GARFIELD--Frances. Died August 29 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Irving William Garfield. Mother of Nina Joan (Alfred) Mattikow of Greenwich, CT, Alan (Marion) Garfield of Manhattan and Southampton and Ronald (Lily) Garfield of Aspen, Colorado. Grandmother of James and April Mattikow, 
 LAMBERT--Julie Rosen. Beloved daughter of Terri and Neal Rosen. Cherished sister of Linda and Jason Baskind and David Rosen. Loving aunt of Emma and Abby. Dear granddaughter of Murray and Sylvia Rosen and the late Beatrice and Jesse Goldman. Her kindness, sweetness, and always wanting to he
 SIEGEL--Ruth Fisher. Age 78. Died at home in New York City on August 30, 2005 after a short, fearless battle with lung cancer. She is survived by her daughter Dorian Siegel Held, her son Jeffrey J. Siegel and daughter-in-law Debragh Siegel, grandchildren Isaac Held, Alison and Michael Novar
 FORGAN--Marianne. Died August 27, 2005 at the age of 103. Mrs. Forgan (nee Pollak) was predeceased by her adoring husband of sixty years, the late Ernest Forgan, and her beloved daughter, the late Eva Merkel, and sonin-law, the late Edgar Merkel. Known as ''Omi'' to her immediate family, Mr
 PFEIFFENBERGER -- Debor ah, 57. Dedicated and creative Director of the New Britain Youth Museum. Lover of art, words, and cats. Sharer of knowledge, talent, and flowers. Giver of love, kindness, and humor. Our dear friend is gone but she has graced our lives. Kendra and Allan Daniel       
