 GOODMAN--Eileen G. Beloved wife of Stanley L. Cherished mother of M.J. (Richard) Wolff and Lois (Marc) Richards. Adoring and adored Nana of Brett, Will, Sarah and Max. Eileen passed on as she lived, with grace and dignity, surrounded by her family. Services at Sharon Gardens on Wednesday, N
 KATZ--Marilyn. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Marilyn Katz, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Ira and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President KATZ--Marilyn. Aunt Marilyn, thank you for always being 
 MARFIELD -- Madelon. Of New York left the stage in Englewood, NJ, on October 26. Ballerina, actress, Metropolitan Opera, Ballet Rousse, ''The Great Waltz'' Broadway, The Palace, film, television, U.S.O. South Pacific, WWII. A very special lady with whom I was proud to share a moment. She wi
 ANDERSON -- Marian Mc Cague. Age 81 of Princeton, N.J. Died October 31, 2004 at her residence. Survived by five children, six grandchildren, two step grandchildren. Memorial services Thursday, 2PM at Princeton University Chapel, Princeton, N.J. Donations may be made to Alzheimer's Associati
 BENDHEIM--Bea, daughter of Ludwig and Steffi Bendheim, was born in 1918. She passed away peacefully in the Jewish Home in Rockleigh, N.J. on November 1, 2004. Bea grew up in her Jewish home in Nuernberg, Germany until her immigration in 1938 to the U.S.A. We had met in 1934 as teen-age stud
 DRATH--Rae. On November 1st, 2004, Rae Drath, an independent, courageous and loving wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother died at the age of 95. Having fled Russia at the tender age of twelve, she developed a passion for freedom and the pursuit of knowledge. She will be dearly mis
 FISHER--Jane Laidlaw. Beloved wife of 50 yrs. to Bertram B., mother of John, Bert Jr., Rick and Alex. Grandmother of 8. Services at St. Michael's Church, Greenwich, CT., at 11 AM Thursday, November 4. In lieu of flowers contributions in her honor to the Greenwich Garden Club, PO Box 4896, G
 GOODMAN--Eileen G. Beloved wife of Stanley L. Cherished mother of M.J. (Richard) Wolff and Lois (Marc) Richards. Adoring and adored Nana of Brett, Will, Sarah and Max. Eileen passed on as she lived, with grace and dignity, surrounded by her family. Services at Sharon Gardens on Wednesday, N
 GOTTLIEB--Jeanette. The Meltzer family mourns the death of a beloved sweet lady, Jeanette Gottlieb. We will always miss her.       
 ISRAEL--Beulah. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Beulah Israel. She will be sorely missed.       
 RAY--Deborah Wing, 90, died October 28, 2004. She received her B.A. from the University of Minnesota and her M.A. and Ph.D in history from New York University. From 1965-1985, she was a faculty member at Norwalk Community College. Dr. Ray was an expert on the history of CT and the co-author
 SAWCHAK--Dr. Judith A. Devoted wife of Brian Henry. Loving mother of Joanna. Cherished daughter of Elsie and the late John Sawchak. Dear sister of the late Jerry. Physician and Professor of Neurology at SUNY Health and Science Center and Kings County Hospital, both of Brooklyn, NY. Despite 
 SLATER--Lynne M. Age 83 of Longboat Key, FL died October 29, 2004 in Sarasota, FL. She was born in NY, NY. She was predeceased by her beloved husband, Jerry. She leaves her loving daughter, Amy, son-in-law, Mark, and her adored and adoring grandson, Peter.       
 CHEN--Ethel Ihming on October 30, 2004 at the age of 87. Born in China, the second daughter of the late Nationalist Chinese Ambassador, Chen Chieh. Educated in China and Europe, she accompanied her father on diplomatic missions in Germany, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. Served as a French/Ch
 COON -- Margaret G., of Bronxville, NY, on November 1 at age 69. Wife of Henry L. Coon. Mother of Scott T. Stroble, Suzanne S. Sitter and Andrew L. Coon. Stepmother of Emily Coon and Jennifer C. Kralyevich. Also survived by six grandchildren and her brother, Thomas M. Greene, Jr. Visiting h
 GOODMAN--Eileen G. Beloved wife of Stanley L. Cherished mother of M.J. (Richard) Wolff and Lois (Marc) Richards. Adoring and adored Nana of Brett, Will, Sarah and Max. Eileen passed on as she lived, with grace and dignity, surrounded by her family. Services at Sharon Gardens on Wednesday, N
 KAPLAN--Suzanne B. Passed away peacefully on November 2, 2004. She was courageous and valiant in her struggle with MS. Beloved wife of Harvey. Loving stepmother of Caroline. Devoted aunt of Ann, David and Ariel. Dear sister-in-law of Louise. Suzanne was a woman of extraordinary integrity . 
 SHARANEVYCH -- Sandy. Was a wonderful mother and beloved wife. An avid gardener, artist, dog lover and engaging hostess, Sandy died on October 31 at the age of 53. The cause was cancer. Sandy lived in Glen Ridge, NJ for 22 years. She helped fund and nurture GRAPA, co-chaired the Glen Ridge 
 COON -- Margaret G., of Bronxville, NY, on November 1 at age 69. Wife of Henry L. Coon. Mother of Scott T. Stroble, Suzanne S. Sitter and Andrew L. Coon. Stepmother of Emily Coon and Jennifer C. Kralyevich. Also survived by six grandchildren and her brother, Thomas M. Greene, Jr. Visiting h
 KAPLAN--Suzanne. It is with profound sorrow that the members of The New York Freudian Society mourn the loss of our colleague, Suzanne, whose valiant struggle with MS has ended. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband Harvey, also a member of our society. Jane S. Hall, President    
 KEATING--Martha Frost, on Oct 27, 2004, passed away peacefully in her sleep at her son's home in Golden, Colorado. She lived for many years in Locust Valley, L.I. as the wife of Cletus Keating Jr. and the mother of Connally Keating and Cletus Keating III. She is survived by the latter.     
 NOSOFSKY--Shirley Geraldine. 83, on November 3rd. Born July 10, 1921 in Brooklyn, NY, she was the daughter of Joseph and Rose Tolchin. A former high school English teacher she was a lover of music, books and the arts. Devoted wife of William Nosofsky, loving mother of Robert (Donna) and Jos
 Sharifa Alkhateeb, an advocate for Muslim culture in the United States who helped place courses in Middle Eastern cultures and Arabic in public schools, died on Oct. 21 at her home in Ashburn, Va. She was 58. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daughter Nasreen. Ms. Al
 GROSSMAN--Selma B., died at her home on November 3, 2004. She was born on February 23, 1910 to Israel and Hannah Bloch, and was preceded in death by her husband, Joseph Grossman. She is survived by her children, Joel Grossman (Mary), Gene Morgan, and Ann Mock (Karl Josef), by six grandchild
 LOBB--Annemarie R., nee Hilpert, born in Berlin, Germany, in 1917, passed away peacefully after a brief illness in Greenville, NY on Monday, October 25, 2004. She was the daughter of the late Adolf Hilpert and Karolina Walther Hilpert of Berlin, and was preceded in death by brothers Adolf a
 MORFOGEN--Christine (nee Christakos), 91, of Fort Lee, formerly of New York, Teaneck and Glen Rock, passed away on Wednesday, November 3, 2004 at her daughter's home in Glen Rock. Beloved wife of the late James G. Loving mother of Elaine, George, and the late James Morfogen. Cherished grand
 ROWE--Pearl (nee Perlman) of Warwick, NY passed quietly on November 3 at the age of 89. She is survived by her husband Marcos of 52 years, devoted daughter Carole, beloved sons Donald and Paul, sister Zelda, nephew Alan, daughter-in-law Lisa, and grandchildren Stefan, Elena, and Emily. Her 
 MUNGER -- Dorothy. The house of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the passing of the American pianist, Dorothy Munger, in Indianapolis on November 5, 2004 at the age of 89. Dorothy Munger was a member of our Steinway Artist family for more than fifty years. Born in Fostoria, Ohio, Mrs
 TERMAN -- Pearl. Loving mother of Diane Felenstein and Dr. David Terman, adoring grandmother of Deborah, Jennifer, Erica, Joy and Brad, great-grandmother of Melissa, Jamie, Laura and Grant. She was an exceptional woman who lived with integrity, values, and strength. She will be missed. A pr
 WEINSTEIN--Carol, on November 3rd, 2004 in NY, NY. Devoted and cherished daughter of Esther and the late Seymour Bernstein. Loving sister of Geri and Alan. Devoted friend of Alex Burger. Beloved aunt of Matanya, Noa, Merav, Eliya and Benjamin. Deeply mourned, sorely missed and always in our
 ANDERSON -- Patricia. Passed away on November 2, 2004. Pat was a Trustee and officer of the Philip D. Reed Foundation. Her ability and devotion were outstanding. Pat is survived by her brother, James R. Anderson and her sister in-law Geraldine Anderson, of Montrose, CO.       
 BLOCH--Mimi D., 87, died peacefully at home in New York, October 21. Petite, beautiful and dignified. Art collector and dealer. Wife of the late Ephraim F. Bloch. Survived by her children, Michele and Larry; grandchildren, Aaron, Maggie and Harry; and brother, Israel       
 DE WAHL--Lois D., of Vero Beach, Florida, wife for 51 years of David A., mother of David A. Jr., Duncan C. and Elizabeth La Vallee and grandmother of five, died October 30, at age 82. Born in Delaware County, NY, grew up on a dairy farm. Graduate of Delaware Academy, Delhi, New York, SUNY a
 EISENROD--Sally. On November 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Loving mother of Michael and Nancy. Dear mother-in-law of Ginger Eisenrod and Howard Hartley. Adoring grandmother of Seth and Alexis. Greatgrandmother. Services Wednesday, 12:45 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and A
 GOLDWYN--Rose, of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on November 4th. Rose was 101 and is survived by her son William Goldwyn; grandchildren Ted and Kim; and three great-grandchildren. Services will be held at Wellwood Cemetery in Lindenhurst, LI at 1:30 PM, Sunday November 7.       
 JOEL--Mathilde (nee Mady). 81, of Ft. Lee and Coconut Creek, FL, died Saturday, October 30, 2004. Born in Salonika, Greece, Mrs. Joel lived in the Bronx before moving to Ft. Lee 30 years ago and Coconut Creek, FL, for the past five years. She and her late husband, Manfred, were the founders
 MUNGER -- Dorothy. The house of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the passing of the American pianist, Dorothy Munger, in Indianapolis on November 5, 2004 at the age of 89. Dorothy Munger was a member of our Steinway Artist family for more than fifty years. Born in Fostoria, Ohio, Mrs
 POLLACK--Creilly H. 73, Sarasota, FL, died October 21, 2004. Her husband (deceased) Peter Pollack was curator of photography at the Art Institute of Chicago and later director of the American Federation of Art. The couple lived in New York City, where she worked for the Eggers Partnership, 
 ROWE--Catherine (Linville)Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of Catherine (Kitty) Rowe, a music faculty member from 1969 to 1992. She was a consummate, dedicated voice professor who was unendingly generous with her time and love for her students, returning to teach after retirement unt
 SEGMAN--Harriet S., age 85, entered rest August, 2004 after a brief bout with cancer. She leaves a niece Jayne, a nephew Tony, a brother Ralph and many loved ones. Pre-deceased by her mother Martha Goldberg and father William Segman. Private services were held in celebration of her life. Ha
 SPIZZ--Rachel. Beloved wife of Reuben, mother of Norman and Mara, Michael and Donna, Gwendolyn, and the late Lynn. Grandmother of Marna, Helene, Austin, Hilary, Kellyn and Kelly. Best friend of Lucy. She will be deeply missed. Graveside services to be held on Sunday, November 7, at 1 PM, at
 TERMAN -- Pearl. Loving mother of Diane Felenstein and Dr. David Terman, adoring grandmother of Deborah, Jennifer, Erica, Joy and Brad, great-grandmother of Melissa, Jamie, Laura and Grant. She was an exceptional woman who lived with integrity, values, and strength. She will be missed. A pr
 TUCHMAN--Judith, died November 3, 2004, after a valiant attempt to live with a severe illness. Beloved wife of Michael, daughter-in-law of Kate Tuchman, sister-in-law of Elaine Rafferty, and loving aunt of many Rafferty children and grandchildren. She will be missed by all of us. Her Loving
 TURNBULL -- Elizabeth Howe, 92, of Teviot Farms in Far Hills, died on Tuesday, November 2nd, 2004 at her home. She was born in Nashville, TN on December 22nd, 1911, a daughter of the late Harry and Elizabeth Thomas Howe. She had been a resident of Far Hills for the past 70 years. She was a 
 UTSCH--Annemarie Schuelein Utsch, died Oct. 14. She was a mother, stepmother, relative, friend, Quadrille charity volunteer and colleague of many, who all mourn her passing. Those wishing to make contributions in her name should send them to Doctors Without Borders.       
 PEREIRA--Deena Dolores Secretary/Treasurer of City Lighting and President of Stedmar R.E. She was the daughter of Rose and Sam Sarnoff and sister to Leonard. She was married to Marvin 6 weeks shy of 50 years. She loved Steven and JoAnne, Arlene and Paul. Worshiped her grandchildren Amanda, 
 CASAMASSIMA--Frances A. (Francine). On November 6, 2004. Beloved daughter of Antoinette and the late Joseph Casamassima. Cherished sister of Matthew Casamassima. Will be sorely missed by a multitude of aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. Dedicated employee of Citibank for 44 years. Reposing
 DAVID--Katherine Anne Brodie. We announce with great sorrow the death of Katherine Anne Brodie David on November 5, 2004, at the age of 59. She is survived by her husband Keith David, her daughter Elizabeth (Bicky) Brodie David and her brother Michael Brodie. Kate was the gradute of Smith C
 EHRLICH--Carole Madeleine (nee Wiener). Wife of the late Dr. Milton M. Sister of the late Richard B. Wiener. Mother of Joel & Priscilla Ehrlich, Alex & Marilyn Ehrlich, David & Lisa Ehrlich & Nancy & Robert Novack. Loving grandmother of Jeremy, Molly, Jeffrey, Daniel, Benjamin & Rachel. Bel
 ETRA--Dorothy Rochelle. On November 6, 2004, Dorothy Rochelle Etra died of pneumonia after a short illness. Poet, painter and rebel. The beloved mother of Barbara and Bill, grandmother of Vivian and Lydia, widow of Harvey. She leaves a sister Marion. She was predeceased by a sister Esther. 
 FELDMAN -- Beatrice. Sep tember 16, 1914-November 7, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Michael and Nancy, Bruce, Richard and John. Proud grandmother of Mark, Jason, Matthew and Alec. Loving sister of Irene, Stanley, Rhoda and the late Meyer. Funeral services at Parksi
 KELLER--Sue Ellen. On November 4, 2004. Daughter of Claire Keller and the late Dr. Arthur Keller. Loving sister of Eve and John Cohn. Beloved aunt of Abby Cohn and Jessica and Joshua Lutzker. We will miss her loving and energetic spirit. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may b
 ter KUILE--The Honorable Barbara J. Beloved wife of Curtis R. ter Kuile passed away on Friday, November 5, 2004, at Southampton Hospital, Southampton, NY. She was the devoted mother of Janice K. ter Kuile, Jacqueline A. ter Kuile and Curtis A. ter Kuile, and leaves six wonderful grandchildr
 BERIRO--Shirlee Preissman. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the death of our ageless, great friend, Shirlee. We will always remember her wise and sophisticated advice. Our condolences to her husband Simon, her children Alex, Margaret, Ron and Rick, and her grandchildren Betsy S. Green,
 BIRNE--Taube. Wife of the late Dr. Ralph Birne, survived her daughters, Joan Gelber, and Carole H. Polsky, grandsons, David and David, and cousin Edith Mannis. Formerly of Glenwood Road, Brooklyn, Stonybrook, New York, and The Williams Residence, NYC. A founder of a Stonybrook Chapter of Ha
 BLOCK--Dorothy Lily (nee Kraft), at age 75, passed peacefully on November 7, 2004 in Norwalk, Connecticut after a prolonged illness. A longtime resident of Boca Raton and Delray Beach, Florida, she was predeceased by her loving husband, Alan J. Block. Survived by devoted daughter, Pamela Wo
 BOSCO--Silvia Prosperina, on November 8, of cancer, age 65. Furnace of energy, fountain of vitality, well-spring of magnetic enthusiasm, paragon of humility, love and forgiveness. A sustaining inspiration to many near and far, her sunny, generous spirit warmed all those lucky enough to have
 CASAMASSIMA--Frances A. (Francine). On November 6, 2004. Beloved daughter of Antoinette and the late Joseph Casamassima. Cherished sister of Matthew Casamassima. Will be sorely missed by a multitude of aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. Dedicated employee of Citibank for 44 years. Reposing
 CHASSIN--Roslyn (nee Rossett). Died peacefully on November 5, 2004, in Tempe, AZ. Honey cherished and was cherished by her husband of 68 years, Dr. Maurice R. Chassin, her sister Marcia Cohen, daughters Marla, Laurie and Terri, sons - in - law Charles, Clark and Douglas, grandchildren Andre
 DAVID--Katherine Anne Brodie. We announce with great sorrow the death of Katherine Anne Brodie David on November 5, 2004, at the age of 59. She is survived by her husband Keith David, her daughter Elizabeth (Bicky) Brodie David and her brother Michael Brodie. Kate was a graduate of Smith Co
 GOLDSTEIN--Beatrice Sorkin. Died November 6, 2004 after a long and interesting life. Adored mother, grandmother, and mother-in-law, she will be missed very much by her children Judith, Sharon, Kenneth, and Tamara and their families. Friends are welcome to join the family after 5 PM on Tuesd
 GREENBERG--Carolyn. CIVITAS Citizens, Inc. mourns the death of its Executive Vice President and Board Member, Carolyn Greenberg. An accomplished social work professional and community leader, she brought intelligence, energy and enthusiasm to the many projects she undertook for CIVITAS. We 
 JOEL -- Mathilde (Mady). Heartfelt condolences to Ralph and Rosalie Joel and family. A Diamond Founder of the Medical Center together with her late husband Manfred, Mady was a kind and generous woman whose open hand epitomized the highest standards of Jewish tradition. May the entire family
 KRELL--Gloria (Hochman), widow of Milton Krell, passed away peacefully in her Florida home on Saturday, November 6th. She was 851/2 years old. Gloria, a 36 year resident of Belle Harbor is survived by her four daughters, Carol Leaf, Joan Garfinkel, Leslie Moses and Ellen Seckler, six grandc
 LOUIS--Trudy. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our cherished and devoted friend Trudy Louis of Los Angeles. Mrs. Louis was a member of the national Board of Directors and of the Southern California Chapter executive board. She was active
 TREEGER--Helen Felstiner, 95, on Sunday, November 7, 2004. Beloved wife of Clarence R. Treeger. Dear mother of Thomas Treeger (Madge) and Betsy Zander (Michael). Cherished grandmother of Nicola Zander, Jonathan Zander, Jennifer Peters (Eric), and Anne Treeger; great grandmother of August an
 WESTAD--Marjorie M. on November 5, 2004, of Port Washington, NY. Devoted wife of Per for 58 years. Loving mother of Christopher, Susan, Jeffrey, Nancy Butler and Constance; survived by six grandchildren & two great grandchildren. Graveside service Wednesday at 10AM, Nassau Knolls Cemetery, 
 CHASSIN--Roslyn (nee Rossett). Died peacefully on November 5, 2004, in Tempe, AZ. Honey cherished and was cherished by her husband of 68 years, Dr. Maurice R. Chassin, her sister Marcia Cohen, daughters Marla, Laurie and Terri, sons - in - law Charles, Clark and Douglas, grandchildren Andre
 COHU--Adelaide Farr deceased November 6, 2004, Waverly Heights, Gladwyne, PA. Wife of the late George G. Snowden, Jr., the late George Dwight, and the late H. Wallace Cohu. Her son George G. Snowden III predeceased her. She is survived by her daughter Sandra S. Snowden, son-in-law Robert T.
 DAVID--Katherine Anne Brodie. We announce with great sorrow the death of Katherine Anne Brodie David on November 5, 2004, at the age of 59. She is survived by her husband Keith David, her daughter Elizabeth (Bicky) Brodie David and her brother Michael Brodie. Kate was a graduate of Smith Co
 GREENBERG--Carolyn. CIVITAS Citizens, Inc. mourns the death of its Executive Vice President and Board Member, Carolyn Greenberg. An accomplished social work professional and community leader, she brought intelligence, energy and enthusiasm to the many projects she undertook for CIVITAS. We 
 KENNEDY--Mary Elizabeth, 49, of Fairfield, CT, died Monday after a valiant struggle with cancer. Ms. Kennedy was a Sales Executive at Mottahedeh Inc. prior to becoming a Social Worker. Survivors include her beloved parents, John M. and Yvonne Kennedy of Fairfield; 7 loving siblings and many
 RAPPORT--Leona, 93, of Bayonne, NJ on October 19, 2004 of natural causes. Beloved mother of Betty Goretsky. Grandmother of four, great grandmother of seven. Donations in her memory may be made to the charity of your choice. Services will be private.       
 TREEGER -- Helen. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visually impaired records with great sorrow the passing of Helen Treeger. She was a most dedicated supporter of VISIONS and Vacation Camp for the Blind and member of the Board of Directors and Advisory 
 DAVID--Katherine Anne Brodie. We announce with great sorrow the death of Katherine Anne Brodie David on November 5, 2004, at the age of 59. She is survived by her husband Keith David, her daughter Elizabeth (Bicky) Brodie David and her brother Michael Brodie. Kate was a graduate of Smith Co
 DeLUISE--Helen M., 95, on November 9, 2004. Active Lay Catholic Missionary to end of her productive life. Retired Vice President for Public Relations with East River Savings Bank. Survivors include brother Dante DeLuise, nieces Laura Metzger, Grace Koenig and Carol Cherry, and several cousi
 GARCIA--Beebe. Beloved by her devoted son Ray; her brother David, who was always there for her; her nephew Jason, who adored his Aunt Beebe; and her parents Adele and Martin Fiderer, who will miss her always. Beebe was a longtime reading teacher in the New York City public schools. Funeral 
 SADOWSKI-SYNNOTT-Rhiannon Mary McLaren. Passed away, age 2, on November 5, 2004. Loved youngest daughter of Sean and Robin, sister of Harrison, Dylan, Reilly and Zoi. ''Rhiannon was a beautiful and happy girl. She had a very nice experience with us and a very, very happy two years,'' Harris
 SCHWARTZ--Ruth, on November 10. Devoted wife of the late Edward Schwartz. Beloved by her children Arthur and Louise, William, and Edith, her grandchildren Peter and Margaret Schwartz, Ellen and Jonathan Kleinhaus, and her great-grandchildren Samantha, Jordan, Robert, Andrew and Emma. Servic
 de ROTHSCHILD -- Debra. Sweet and courageous Debra left us three years ago. Those who were lucky enough to have met her, send her a tender kiss. ''I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth.'' Robert & Jacob       
 Iris Chang, a journalist whose best-selling book, ''The Rape of Nanking,'' a chronicle of the atrocities committed in that city by occupying Japanese forces, helped break a six-decade-long international silence on the subject, committed suicide on Tuesday near Los Gatos, Calif. She was 36 a
 LONSHEIN--Martha R. My beloved grandmother who passed away November 9th will always be in my heart and soul. Her memory will be cherished by all those who have known and loved her. Jonathan       
 NEIBACHER--Susan L. The Board of Directors and staff of Care for the Homeless note with great sadness the death of our founding Executive Director on November 5, 2004 and express our condolences to her mother Laura, her brother the Reverend Albert L. Neibacher Jr. and his family, and to her
 SAXE--Eleanor (nee Ginsburg). Beloved wife of Ben Saxe. Cherished mother of Emmett and his wife Sharon. Sister of Rachel Weisfuse and the late Moe Ginsburg. After a long illness, she passed away peacefully Monday, November 8, 2004. She was loved and respected by family and friends. An arden
 COHEN--Doris M. Wife of the late Samuel. Sister of William Migden. Mother of Hollis and Matthew. Grandmother of Tori and Sarah. She will be dearly missed. Service at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave at 91 St., N.Y., Sunday, 1PM. Memorial contributions may be made to The New 
 GROSS--Lea. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Susan Degen. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KAUFMAN--Berdie L., in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kaufman. Cherished mother of Myron and Joan Kaufman, Florence and the late Ben Jaffa, and Sharon and Gerald Ness. Loving grandmother of Susan and Donald Jacobs, Michael and Deborah Jaffa, Steven and Stephanie Kaufman, the
 LEHMAN--Blanche of Manhasset, NY, passed away Friday morning in her sleep. Beloved wife of Larry. Devoted mother of Linda & Martin. Adoring grandmother of Lisa, Robyn, Rachel & Evan. Loving sister of Pearl Meyer. Services Sunday, 1pm, Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd
 OKRENT -- Gloria. National Council of Jewish Women New York Section mourns the passing of Gloria Okrent, a valued volunteer and a devoted board member. Sincerest condolences to all her loving family. Natalie Katz, President Judith Golub, Executive Director       
 BOONE--Dian, a Philadelphia based interior designer of international reputation, died on Monday, October 18, 2004. A Connecticut native, Ms. Boone also maintained a residence in Nantucket, MA. A memorial gathering will occur at 4 PM on November 20 in the Arthur Ross Gallery of the Universit
 DeLEON -- Dorothy. The Smith, Winograd and Birke families express deep sorrow on the passing of Dorothy (Babe) DeLeon who was a dear sister, mother, grandmother, aunt and a devoted wife of Ted DeLeon. Dorothy had style and grace and she brought a beautiful presence and quick wit to all occa
 DIAMOND--Toni M. With deep sorrow we mourn the loss of a champion in MDA's fight against neuromuscular diseases. Our valiant Toni lost her battle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at age 46 on November 11. She was the inspiration and drive behind MDA's Wings Over Wall Street, which annuall
 ENOCH--Minna (nee Gordon). 57, of Teaneck, beloved wife of the late Lee, foster mother, guiding light to Lynn Plumacher, pre-deceased by brother David, special aunt to Susan & Kevin Hayes, Lisa & John Renzulli, Bobby & Lucy Enoch, Anne Marie & John Wademan, Michael Enoch, Tracy & Brendan Lo
 FRANKEL--Dr. Alice Kross. On November 12th, 2004, after a brief illness. Cherished wife of the late Hon. Marvin E. Frankel. Devoted mother of David Kross Schorr, Ellen Schorr, Mara Frankel Wallace and stepmother of Eleanor Frankel Perlman. Loving mother - in - law of Judith Krones, Nathanie
 GROSS--Lea W. On November 11, 2004, after a long and fruitful life. Beloved wife of the late Jess E. Gross. Devoted mother of Susan and Arthur Degen, Pamela Gross, and William and Cheryl Gross. Beloved grandmother of Bennett and Michelle Degen, and Meryl Degen. Loving great-grandmother of J
 HAMMER--Sally. On November 7th, 2004. Loving sister and aunt. Survived by her brother Jerry Hammer, nephew Todd and Mike Hammer, and sister-in-law Katherine Hammer. Great aunt of Zachary, Chelsea, Brooke and Olivia.       
 HILL--Virginia Hayes. Died after a short illness on Friday, November 12th. She was a resident of Briarcliff Manor, NY, and previously of Irvington, NY, and a summer resident of Pilot Knob, NY. She was born on December 28, 1928, in New Haven, CT, and was raised in Northampton, MA. She was a 
 KAUFMAN--Berdie L., in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kaufman. Cherished mother of Myron and Joan Kaufman, Florence and the late Ben Jaffa, and Sharon and Gerald Ness. Loving grandmother of Susan and Donald Jacobs, Michael and Deborah Jaffa, Steven and Stephanie Kaufman, the
 KUHNS--Margaret E., 84, of New York, NY, died Thursday, November 11, 2004 at Avon Health Center, Avon, CT. She was born November 16, 1919 in Wilkinsburg, PA daughter of the late John H. and Margaret (Hood) Kuhns and had lived in New York City, NY prior to moving to Avon three years ago. A m
 LEHMAN--Blanche of Manhasset, NY, passed away Friday morning in her sleep. Beloved wife of Larry. Devoted mother of Linda & Martin. Adoring grandmother of Lisa, Robyn, Rachel & Evan. Loving sister of Pearl Meyer. Services Sunday, 1pm, Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd
 MARKS--Sylvia. Beloved wife of Benjamin Marks. On November 2 at age 87. Sylvia will be greatly missed by her many devoted friends and her loving son, Alan, his wife, Martha, and her grandchildren, Betsy, Ben and Lee. Memorial service November 21, 2 PM, Town & Village Synagogue, 334 E. 14 St
 ROSS--Kitty (Kathryn) On November 4, 2004, New York City. Wife of Paul Carl Ross, President of Bioforce USA, mother of Abigail Ross Sioussat, mother-in-law of Pierce Stewart Sioussat, grandmother of Alton Hale Sioussat. She also leaves a brother, John J. Karol Jr. of Orford, New Hampshire a
 SCHWIMMER--Beatrice Osgood. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died November 7, 2004 in Santa Monica, CA at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Bertram. Survived by her son Arthur and daughter-in-law Arlene and grandchildren Elinor and David. Retired concert pianist and piano teacher, proud and loving 
 STARK--Dorothy C. 91, died November 8, 2004 in Denver, CO. A gracious woman with a strong intellect, raised in Wheeling, WV she lived most of her adult life in NYC. Upon graduating from the University of Chicago Mrs. Stark went to work in Washington, D.C. through the end of WWII. After a su
 VAN RIPER-HAASE--Edith, of Manhasset, Long Island, died on November 8 after a long battle with ovarian cancer. She was a lifelong resident of Long Island and past owner of Douglas Van Riper Realty, a residential real estate firm established in 1926, that she took over at the death of her hu
 Carol Mezzacappa, a dancer and choreographer who staged many works by the modern-dance pioneer Charles Weidman, died on Oct. 12 in a hospice in Brooklyn, where she lived. She was 47. The cause was brain cancer, according to an announcement from the Charles Weidman Foundation.       
 HILL--Virginia Hayes. Died after a short illness on Friday, November 12th. She was a resident of Briarcliff Manor, NY, and previously of Irvington, NY, and a summer resident of Pilot Knob, NY. She was born on December 28, 1928, in New Haven, CT, and was raised in Northampton, MA. She was a 
 KAUFMAN--Berdie L., in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kaufman. Cherished mother of Myron and Joan Kaufman, Florence and the late Ben Jaffa, and Sharon and Gerald Ness. Loving grandmother of Susan and Donald Jacobs, Michael and Deborah Jaffa, Steven and Stephanie Kaufman, the
 RAABIN--Norma Hesse. 97, died peacefully on November 13, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Lewis D. Raabin. Loving mother of Edie and Eddie Scheurer. Adored grandmother of Lynne and Andrew. Cherished great-grandmother of Sarah and Noah. Devoted sister-in-law of Elizabeth Hesse. Predeceased by 
 ABELL--Liese L., PhD. At the age of 95. Beloved daughter of the late Paula and Eduard Baerwald, devoted sister of the late H. Fred Baerwald, cherished aunt of Jessica Baerwald Bourgeois, and adored great-aunt of Alexander and Claire Bourgeois. Her decades of groundbreaking work in the field
 ASHBURN--Jean (Lang), age 95, formerly of Brooks School, North Andover, MA, died Sunday November 14 at Fox Hill Village, Westwood, MA. Mrs. Ashburn was preceded in death by her husband, Frank D. Ashburn. Survivors include her sisters Agnes Reynolds of Charleston, SC, Helen Kelly of Indian H
 CLAY--MaryBelle Trent, on November 12. She is survived by her children Marcia, Henry and Jonathan, and four grandchildren. Memorial services will be held in Hawaii and next summer at Point O'Woods.       
 CORMAN -- Judy. Passed away on November 15. She was a loving wife to Avery, caring sister to Michael and Howard, and a wonderful mother and mother-in-law to Matt, Dawn, Nick, and Marcio. We will miss her warm heart, love of life, and creative spirit. She was the wizard who orchestrated the 
 GOLD--Ruth. ''Nannie''. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of North Woodmere, NY, died November 14, 2004 at home in Chappaqua, NY surrounded by her children Bonnie Smith and Steven Gold, sister Shirley Finger, and adoring grandsons Jared and Brian Smith. She was a role model and inspiration to h
 INDIG--Adeline. After a valiant battle, she succumbed to cancer on Sunday, November 14, 2004. She is survived by her son Mark, daughter-inlaw Mamie, loving daughter Barbara, son-in-law Mickey and grandchildren Stacie and Steven and sister Marianne. Services today 12:15pm ''Sinai Chapels,'' 
 RAABIN--Norma Hesse. 97, died peacefully on November 13, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Lewis D. Raabin. Loving mother of Edie and Eddie Scheurer. Adored grandmother of Lynne and Andrew. Cherished great-grandmother of Sarah and Noah. Devoted sister-in-law of Elizabeth Hesse. Predeceased by 
 SCHWAB--Betty B. 78, passed away peacefully November 13, after a five-year, courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Martin for 55 years. Adored mother of Jeffrey and Magdi, Sally and Sam Honig, Steven and Susan, sister of Elizabeth and Richard Fuld. Devoted grandmother of Jay
 SHAPIRO--Evelyn G. (nee Gold). Of Leonia, N.J. Wife of Dr. Samuel L. Shapiro. Mother of Susan Shapiro & Robert Katz, Jonathan & Catherine Shapiro and Raphael Shapiro & Angelina Vera. Sister of Doris Gamser, Jeremy Barnes and Esther & Herbert Dorfman. Grandmother of Joshua & Amy, Jeremy, Jac
 WATSON--Olive Cawley, at the age of 86, passed away peacefully in her home on November 13, 2004 in Greenwich, CT, surrounded by her family. She was the wife of the late Thomas J. Watson, Jr., former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM and an ambassador to the Soviet Union during the
 Judy Corman, a publishing executive who helped bring to life the global dynamo named Harry Potter, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66.The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, the novelist Avery Corman, said. Ms. Corman was senior vice president of corpora
 CORMAN--Judith. The directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague. Judy Corman was an officer of Phoenix House, who started and ran our volunteer program and headed our national communications department. She believed passionately in our miss
 COSTABILE--Venera Grazia (nee Laimo) aged 90, on November 16, 2004. Devoted wife for 44 years of the late Albert, beloved mother of Rita Costabile Tobin and JoAnn DiMaggio, loving grandmother of Austin, cherished sister of Stellario, Francesca and the late Pasquale, caring mother-in-law of 
 DAILY--Barbara Kissling, of Rye, NY died on November 14, 2004 at Greenwich Hospital after a long and courageous battle with cancer. A loving wife, mother, a compassionate friend, and a steadfast competitor, she is survived by her husband, John; two children, Craig and Leigh; and daughter-in
 EBERHART--Pamela S. 59, of Greenwich, CT, died Monday after a lengthy illness. Born June 30, 1945 in Bethlehem, PA, Mrs. Eberhart was the daughter of the late Mr. & Mrs. James L. Shearer of Bethlehem, PA. She was the wife of the late Mr. Walter M. Eberhart, Jr. She is survived by her two da
 FERRER--M. Irene. The Columbia University Medical Center community mourns the loss of one of its cardiology pioneers, Irene M. Ferrer, professor emeritus of clinical medicine. Dr. Ferrer was a graduate of and long-time faculty member at the College of Physicians & Surgeons (P&S). After grad
 HATCHER--Alexandria. The K.S. Giniger Company regrets the loss of its devoted associate and good friend, and extends to her family its deepest sympathy.       
 RAMOS--Dorothy Christie, 78, formerly of 18 Gay St., died at her home in Jonesport, Maine, on November 9, 2004. Services will be held in Jonesport on November 20.       
 WATSON--Olive Cawley, at the age of 86, passed away peacefully in her home on November 13, 2004 in Greenwich, CT, surrounded by her family. She was the wife of the late Thomas J. Watson, Jr., former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM and an ambassador to the Soviet Union during the
 WEISL--Barbara Butler. On November 14 suddenly after a short illness. Beloved wife of Edwin L. Weisl Jr. Loving stepmother of Angela Jane Weisl. Fond sister of Rowene Oltorf. Also cherished by nieces and nephews. Funeral services Thursday, 12:15pm at Church of the Resurrection, 119 East 74 
 CORMAN--Judith. The directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague. Judy Corman was an officer of Phoenix House, who started and ran our volunteer program and headed our national communications department. She believed passionately in our miss
 COSTABILE--Venera Grazia (nee Laimo) aged 90, on November 16, 2004. Devoted wife for 44 years of the late Albert, beloved mother of Rita Costabile Tobin and JoAnn DiMaggio, loving grandmother of Austin, cherished sister of Stellario, Francesca and the late Pasquale, caring mother-in-law of 
 GUERCIO -- Josephine. The Morgenthau Associates mourn the loss of their dear friend and former colleague, Josephine Guercio, who was a valued member of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York from 1961 to 1970. We will miss her greatly and extend our heartfelt sympa
 KAUFMANN--Christine, ''Chrissy.'' Amazing sister, devoted aunt, and cherished friend of so many in so many places, after a decade of bravely battling the demon of breast cancer, succumbed peacefully Sunday morning, November 7. To the end, surrounded by a steady stream of visitors, she cheer
 Dr. M. Irené Ferrer, a New York cardiologist and medical educator who helped refine the cardiac catheter and electrocardiogram, which have become diagnostic essentials in heart treatment, died at her apartment in Manhattan last Friday. She was 89. The cause was pneumonia combined w
 DAVID--Jeannette A. Died on Wednesday November 17th, 2004, four days short of her 102nd birthday. She was the widow of Leon Kulla and Edwin David. Beloved mother of Betty K. Benjamin (Robert). Loving grandmother of John S. and Richard L. Benjamin and proud greatgrandmother of Scott Benjamin
 RILEY--Matilda White. On November 14, 2004 at age 93 at her home in Brunswick, ME. She had a many-sided life career. She was a devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother; avid mountain climber and skier; trail blazer in market research, renowned and much honored scholar and soc
 UHLFELDER--Elaine B., 78, died at her home in New York City on November 17, 2004. Adoring wife of the late Martin; loving mother of Jill Uhlfelder and Merri Kotcher and mother-in-law of Irwin; proud grandmother of Brett and Jeffrey; devoted sister of the late Stanley Blacker; and caring aun
 WATSON--Olive Cawley. The Board, staff and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are saddened by the passing of Olive Watson, our former board member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Gregory Long, President       
 ACEVEDO--Francisca E. In her 93rd year, on November 15, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Francisco, cherished mother of Raymond. A Memorial Service will be announced at a later date.       
 BENACH--Sonia Thea (nee Eisenstadt). Died on November 18, 2004, following her heroic battle with Alzheimer's. She is survived by her loving husband of 56 years, Bob, children Wayne and Michele, Jana and David, four granddaughters and two greatgrandchildren. Funeral services will be on Sunda
 CASPER -- Paula Fraser, 1906-2004, entered into rest on November 17, 2004. Paula is survived by her loving and devoted daughter Yvette and her husband John, her grandson Thomas Donegan who brought her much joy, her great-granddaughter Kathleen Donegan who filled her final years with great d
 MAIDENBAUM - SCHREI BER--Esther. Loving mother, grandmother, great grandmother. Loving wife of Nathan Maidenbaum and Aaron Schreiber. Mother of six, grandmother of 26, greatgrandmother of 22. Loving sister to Charles, Morris and Norman, and devoted daughter of Alter and Leah. Especially ado
 SCHWARTZ--Grace. Died on November 19th at home. Grace is survived by a loving family; children Barbara and Kenneth Onish, Steven Schwartz and Sanford and Alyce Schwartz; grandchildren Russell and Jennifer Onish, Alison and Donald Rosen, Robert and Jessie Schwartz, Jonathan Schwartz, Megan S
 Nancy Larrick, an educator whose poetry anthologies and widely used parent's guide helped introduce generations of children not only to reading, but also to literature, died on Nov. 14 in Winchester, Va. She was 93 and lived in Winchester. The cause was pneumonia, said her stepson, 
 BENACH--Sonia Thea (nee Eisenstadt). Died on November 18, 2004, following her heroic battle with Alzheimer's. She is survived by her loving husband of 56 years, Bob, children Wayne and Michele, Jana and David, four granddaughters and two greatgrandchildren. Funeral services will be on Sunda
 BLOCK--Dr. Angela B. (nee Dellepiane). Her nephews and grandnephews in the United States and in Argentina, and friends, communicate her death which took place in Buenos Aires on November 7, 2004. Cremation has taken place in Buenos Aires; a private memorial will be held at a later date. For
 CASPER--Paula F. In her 99th year -- her beauty, intel ligence, refinement and wisdom defy description. She was a gift to all who knew and loved her. Anita Kahn and Lionel Arond       
 DAVID--Jeannette A. Died on Wednesday November 17th, 2004, four days short of her 102nd birthday. She was the widow of Leon Kulla and Edwin David. Beloved mother of Betty K. Benjamin (Robert). Loving grandmother of John S. and Richard L. Benjamin and proud greatgrandmother of Scott Benjamin
 GANZ--Ruth Leone on November 16 in Long Branch, NJ, aged 85. Ruth Leone was born in New York City on December 15, 1918. She was a graduate of Ursinus College and the New York School of Social Work. Married Walter Ganz on May 17, 1947 and lived in Washington, DC where she was a social worker
 HEYMAN--Claudia Susan. Of Boston and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Age 35, on November 13, 2004. Beloved daughter of Stephen and Barbara Heyman. Sister of Alexandra Nash. Granddaughter of Herbert Gussman. Beloved niece, cousin and aunt. Claudia loved learning, reading and her several pets. She always ha
 JOHNSON--Hazel K. June 8, 1919-October 2, 2004. Died at home in Manhattan of lung cancer. Pianist and organist, musicologist, teacher, improviser and (on occasion) composer of music to accompany modern dance. B.A., 1941, Western College, Oxford, OH; M.A., Brooklyn College. She is survived b
 MAIDENBAUM - SCHREI BER--Esther. Loving mother, grandmother, great grandmother. Loving wife of Nathan Maidenbaum and Aaron Schreiber. Mother of six, grandmother of 26, greatgrandmother of 22. Loving sister to Charles, Morris and Norman, and devoted daughter of Alter and Leah. Especially ado
 MINTZ--Fay (Sheldon). Widow of the late New Jersey Superior Court Judge, Nelson K. Mintz, died on November 13 at her winter home in Palm Beach, Florida. Born in New York October 14, 1907, to Herbert J. and Rose L. Kirshner, she graduated from N.Y.U. in 1927 and in 1928 married her first hus
 REIBEL--Jane Doniger, died peacefully at home November 4. Survived by her husband of 55 years, Robert; brother, William Doniger; children, Jaime & Clara Reibel, Sylvia & Peter Tousley, Charles & Nancy Reibel; six grandchildren, two greatgrandchildren. Jane had careers as biometrician, libra
 SINGER--Ruth (Shapiro). On November 18, 2004. Widow of the late Max Singer and longtime companion of the late Louis Cantor, both attorneys. Much beloved mother of Stephanie and Lise, grandmother of Gillian Wander, mother-in-law of John DeGroat and sister of Beatrice Fischer, Jack Shapiro an
 UHLFELDER--Elaine B., 78, died at her home in New York City on November 17, 2004. Adoring wife of the late Martin; loving mother of Jill Uhlfelder and Merri Kotcher and mother-in-law of Irwin; proud grandmother of Brett and Jeffrey; devoted sister of the late Stanley Blacker; and caring aun
 ELLEN--Leslie. Most wonderful wife, mother and grandmother, died with dignity and grace at home with her loved ones around her on November 20, 2004, after a long and courageous battle. She was a beautiful, brilliantly gifted and loving human being. Now she's gone to the big dance class in t
 FEIER--May (Kerr). On November 20, 2004, of Tenafly, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Olivia Lazarus, Ellen Stern and Jane Doft. Loving grandmother of Avi Stern and Lauen and Daniel Doft. She will be missed by many friends. Service Monday, 11:30 am, ''Wien & Wien,'' Ha
 HEYMAN--Claudia Susan. Of Boston and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Age 35, on November 13, 2004. Beloved daughter of Stephen and Barbara Heyman. Sister of Alexandra Nash. Granddaughter of Herbert Gussman. Beloved niece, cousin and aunt. Claudia loved learning, reading and her several pets. She always ha
 ZACHARY--Ruth. It is with great sadness that the family and friends of Ruth Zachary mark her passing on November 19. She was a beloved mentor to all of us. Ruth and her late husband Danny were parents to friends and family. Their generosity and warmth supported us in fulfilling our dreams. 
 BARRY--Kim, died tragically on November 20, 2004. Kim was a Fellow during 1997-1998 in the Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program of New York University School of Law. She was an especially gifted student and performed her duties in the Hays Program with great distinction and extraord
 CARR--Margaret Patterson (Peggy), on November 18, 2004 of Lakewood, NJ, formerly of Elizabeth, NJ. Loving daughter of the late William Collette Carr and the late Clara Nelson Carr; sister of the late Miss Mary C. Carr, Robert N. Carr, William C. Carr, Jr., and Nelson Lovell Carr; aunt of Ro
 DIAKOFF -- Lois Cudworth died on November 18 at the age of 61 after a long battle with cancer. She held degrees in comparative literature from City College and Columbia University and a JD from Brooklyn Law School. She practiced personal injury law for three years and then joined the State 
 DICKSTEIN--Judith (aka J.D. Jones). Died in a vehicle accident November 20, in Montpelier, VT. Devoted sister to Laurie and Barry Siegel; aunt to Jodi Zgodny and Matthew Wood; great-aunt to Jordan and Dylan Zgodny; stepsister to Dennis Gilbert and Pam Gittleman. The free-est of free spirits
 DONEN -- Gertrude. Loving wife, mother and grandmother. Survived by daughters Marcia and Doreen, son-inlaw Joseph, grandchildren Michael and Sarina. Pure of heart, she will always be with us.       
 FEIER--May. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed benefactor, Ellen Stern. To Ellen, Jerome, Avi and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. Her memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod
 HEYMAN--Claudia Susan. Of Boston and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Age 35, on November 13, 2004. Beloved daughter of Stephen and Barbara Heyman. Sister of Alexandra Nash. Granddaughter of Herbert Gussman. Beloved niece, cousin and aunt. Claudia loved learning, reading and her several pets. She always ha
 ISELIN--Beatrice. Age 92. Of New Rochelle, N.Y. On November 21, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Harry J. Iselin. Beloved mother and motherin-law of Joan and Ari De-Levie, Diane and Ralph Heiman, and David and Audrey Iselin. Loving grandmother of Sharon, Rena, Julie, Wendy, Marc, Tammy, Josh 
 LOHR--Ruth. Unforgettable and irreplaceable Ruth. Now reunited with her beloved Steve. For me it was a beautiful gift to have been her friend. Ruth leaves a huge and vast emptiness in my life and surely in the lives of so many of her friends on both sides of the Atlantic. My dear friend, re
 O'BRIEN--M. Madeleine Riordan, of Briar Cliff Manor, NY, formerly of Arlington, MA, on November 20, 2004. Beloved wife of the late James E. Loving mother of Madeleine ''Lynn'' O'Brien, M.D., of Cortlandt Manor, NY. Grandmother of Elenor Tess O'Brien. Sister of the late Francis J. Riordan. F
 PARRY--Natalie nee Lasher. Predeceased by her adoring niece Marjorie Fisher Bahr. Survived by loving and devoted sisters Shirley Fisher and Dorothy Nortman. Dearest Natalie, we miss you. Services private.       
 BARRY--Kim, died tragically on November 20, 2004. Kim was a Fellow during 1997-1998 in the Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program of New York University School of Law. She was an especially gifted student and performed her duties in the Hays Program with great distinction and extraord
 CARR--Nancy C. of Quogue and New York City on November 22, 2004. Beloved wife of Ambrose A. Carr, Jr., Loving mother of Paula Carr Cummings, Margot Carr, and Ambrose A. Carr, III, cherished grandmother of Ian Cummings, and Sophie Cummings, sister of Paul Carr, Joan Carr Eggert, and Virginia
 CONSOR--Mollie (nee Wiener) 92, loving wife of Robert (deceased). Passed away peacefully on November 22, 2004. She is survived by her children Harvey and Yvette Consor and Helaine (Arthur, deceased) Friedman and grandchildren Glenn and Gwen Consor, Jill Consor, Lisa Consor and Jarrett Behar
 DICKSTEIN--Judith (aka J.D. Jones). Died in a vehicle accident November 20, in Montpelier, VT. Devoted sister to Laurie and Barry Siegel; aunt to Jodi Zgodny and Matthew Wood; great-aunt to Jordan and Dylan Zgodny; stepsister to Dennis Gilbert and Pam Gittleman. The free-est of free spirits
 DONEN--Gertrude. The management, brokers and staff of Fox Residential Group extend heartfelt condolences to our associate, Marcia Roma, on the passing of her beloved mother. Our thoughts are with Marcia and Serena at this difficult time.       
 GLEIT--Gladys. Passed away on November 23 on her 80th birthday. Wife of Arthur. Mother of Joyce, Barry and Eileen. Grandmother of Caryn, Allison, Lauren, Brian and Haley. Great-grandmother of Jasper. Funeral service 12 noon, Wednesday, Sinai Chapels, 164th St and Horace Harding Expressway. 
 MARGEOTES -- Sharon on November 22. Born November 4, 1964 in South End On Sea, in the United Kingdom. She attended St. Martin's College of Art in London. She leaves her son Alex, and her husband James, her mother Patricia Keep, sister Susan and her husband Jack Tropper, nephew Max, her brot
 NOLAN--Alice Edwards, on November 21 in Simsbury, CT. Alice Nettleton Edwards was born in Syracuse, NY in 1921 and graduated from Vassar College in 1942. She was the widow of William J. Nolan, Jr., whom she married in 1944. They were residents of Irvington-on-Hudson, NY until moving to Conn
 SCHULTE--Eleanor Hillyer, 74, of Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, beloved wife of Ruprecht Schulte died November 18th. She was born in Brooklyn, NY and attended Packard School. She later earned a BA Degree in Physical Education. Eleanor was an active volunteer, performing more than 11,000 hrs of
 Trina Schart Hyman, who illustrated an entire shelf of children's books and inspired many others who worked in the genre, died on Friday in Lebanon, N.H. She was 65 and lived in Lyme, N.H. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said Jean Aull, her partner. She won the
 BERGER--Doris. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor       
 CARDIA--Jennifer (nee Ziffer), on October 30, 2004. Died peacefully and forever will live in the hearts of her son Nicholas, her mother Vivian, grandmother Elsie and her aunts, uncles and cousins. Memorial service Saturday, November 27th, 2004, at the Perazzo Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St, 
 COHEN -- Roslyn. Passed peacefully on Wednesday, November 24, 2004 joining her beloved late husband Ronald. A caring & loving mother and a dedicated teacher of English she will be terribly missed by her children Richard, Clifford, Wendy & Howard & grandchildren Samuel and Carly. Private ser
 PISHA--Merryl Merker. After a long struggle our beautiful daughter Merryl died on November 19. Our hearts are broken as we mourn her loss. Please send donations to the Merryl Pisha Fund for Social Justice, Friends of Young Achievers, 25 Walk Hill St, Jamaica Plains, MA 02130. Memorial servi
 SCHLESINGER--Eva at age 105. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Devoted mother of Dr. Irwin Schlesinger. Adored grandmother of Lisa Schlesinger. She was a source of strength to all who knew her.       
 SOROKIN--Feena. November 22, 2004, a social worker. She is survived by one sister. Funeral services and interment were private.       
 COHEN--Doris (Maslan), of Oakland, CA. Formerly of Tom's River and Millburn, New Jersey on November 23, 2004. Beloved by all who knew her. Devoted wife of the late Benjamin A. Cohen. Adored mother of Marc (Lorraine) Cohen, Leslie (Doug) Hall, and Abby Cohen (Jeff Sandler) and proud grandmot
 GILLMAN--Alecia, 51, a resident of New York City died on November 24, 2004 afer a short illness. She was born December 1, 1952 to Marcelle Pastoret Gillman and the late William G. Gillman. She graduated from Rosemont College with a B.A. and received a Masters Degree in business from Fordham
 HEALY--Sybil Gilmore. Died November 23, 2004, aged 93, in California. Born in Brooklyn March 15, 1911, she lived most of her life in Babylon, Long Island. She was much loved by her sister Ruth Stevenson, daughters Sharon Healy and Sybil Pagnamenta, grandchildren Carla, Anthony, Robin and Zo
 NEWMAN--Rhea on November 24. Devoted and loving sister, sister-in-law, aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her, especially Petey. Services today, 11:30AM at ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels'' 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, New Yor
 PLOSZ--Irene. Died on November 3rd. She will be remembered for her unique spirit, passion for life, and her contributions to our family and the community. Memorial service 11:00 AM Saturday November 27 at St. Stephen of Hungary Church, 414 East 82nd Street. Randy, Mitchell, Gilli and Ali Gl
 TORNABENE--Wendy Lyn. 37, passed away November 19, 2004. Daughter of Frank Tornabene, founder of ScafeTornabene art publishing and her mother the writer Lyn Tornabene. Survived by her son, Luke Franklyn.       
 MADDEN--Elizabeth P. November 25th, 2004. Beloved sister of Joan Madden Wilson & her husband James Wilson. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Saturday November 27th, 2-5 & 7-9PM. Memorial service to
 Frederica de Laguna, an anthropologist whose work on the history and culture of little-known Arctic civilizations was groundbreaking in the most literal sense of the word, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 98. Her death was announced by Bryn Mawr College, where Dr
 BEHAR-BROWN--Pearl. Of Long Beach, NY, passed away on November 25, 2004. For many years Pearl had been the Court Clerk of the City of Long Beach. She was beloved by all who knew her for her heart of gold, of which she gave unselfishly. She will be sorely missed by family and friends who wil
 DIAKOFF -- Lois Cudworth died on November 18 at the age of 61 after a long battle with cancer. She held degrees in comparative literature from City College and Columbia University and a JD from Brooklyn Law School. She practiced personal injury law for three years and then joined the State 
 FELDMAN--Estella Menes. A native of Boston and long time resident of NYC, died in Manhattan November 19 in her 101st year. The widow of Louis Feldman, she is survived by their daughter Leda F. Hanson Murray also of NYC. A concert pianist, she worked with music students as an impresario. She
 GOODMAN--Dorothy S. On November 27, 2004, at age 78. Beloved husband of Richard. Loving mother of Annie and John. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, David and Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm, with service Tuesday, 1:30 pm.
 HEALY--Sybil Gilmore. Died November 23, 2004, aged 93, in California. Born in Brooklyn March 15, 1911, she lived most of her life in Babylon, Long Island. She was much loved by her sister Ruth Stevenson, daughters Sharon Healy and Sybil Pagnamenta, grandchildren Carla, Anthony, Robin and Zo
 KUTIK--H. Ronnie (nee Weinberg). On November 17, 2004. Survived by her husband Martin and son Michael.       
 MATHEWS -- Dorothea S. Died peacefully last month at 92, leaving behind three daughters--Carol Cameron, Beatrice Francais, and Louise Bozorth. She is also survived by four grandchildren--Hilary, Squire, Diana, and Caroline--and four greatgrandchildren--Belize, Laila Louise, Coltrane, and Cr
 PRICHARD -- Elizabeth R. Died October 24th, 2004. Former Director of Social Services for NewYork-Presbyterian, Columbia University Medical Center; 1954-1981. Held in highest esteem by her colleagues. Memorial service December 6th, 2004; Presbyterian Hospital's Hartford Memorial Chapel, 622 
 SHELLEY--Sarah O. In Branford, CT on November 22, 2004, a twenty-three year survivor of breast cancer, of 24 Thimble Farms Rd., Branford. She was born March 9, 1937 in Englewood, NJ, daughter of the late Robert Sydney and Katharine Drayton O'Hara. Beloved mother of Katharine Brockie Hurley 
 SMILEY--Marilyn, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Passed away on November 25, 2004. Beloved wife of Zanvil, loving mother of Jill Needleman, Michael and Karen Smiley, Lynne and James Brodie. Loving grandmother of Ethan, Joshua, Alexandra, Alyssa, Andrew and Erica. She will be 
 TORNABENE--Wendy Lyn, 37, formerly of Greenwich, CT, died in Tucson, AZ on November 19, 2004. She is survived by her son, Luke Franklyn, age 2; her father, Frank Tornabene, founder of Scafa-Tornabene Art Publishing; and her mother, the writer Lyn Tornabene. The family resides in Tucson.    
 WETZLAR--Sophie. In her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Adolph William Wetzlar. Devoted mother of Terri, Matthew, and Leonard. Dear sister of Ruth Haberman. Services Monday, November 29, 2PM at Pinelawn Memorial Park, Pinelawn, NY       
 BOGEL--Catherine A. Of Albertson, LI, on November 25, 2004. Beloved wife of John B. Devoted mother of Jane Spatola and her husband John, and Nancy Schumacher and her husband Judson. Loving grandmother of Lauren, Bromley, John, Madeline, Owen and Trevor. Dear sister of Robert and Theresa All
 CLAMAN -- Ruthellen. 66, mother of Lawrence, MaryElizabeth, Neil and Jonathan Nussbaum, sister of Michael Claman, and life long friend of Ruth Brown. Resident of NYC, passed on Friday, November 26. Services today, 2 pm, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. Her spirit lives on in her kids,
 MARCUS--Anne. November 28, 2004, in her 94th year. A proud graduate of Hunter College, she taught mathematics for many years at Ellenville (NY) High School. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Marcus and mother of Kuni Yavneh and David Marcus. Grandmother of Tenli and Naomi Yavneh, and Gregory
 WHITE--Jane Hall of Ridgewood, NJ, and Hilton Head Island, SC, formerly of Glen Rock, died on November 23. She was 75 years old. Born Jane Nicholson Hall to Dr. Wayne W. Hall and Sabina M. Hall of Ridgewood. Her sister, Mary W. Hall, precedeased her. Beloved wife of 53 years to James W. Whi
 BILLET--Rita. Died on Friday, November 26, 2004 in Manhattan. She leaves her four children: Randy, Jon, Sue, Debbie and son-in-law Jim who miss her deeply. She also leaves loving grandchildren: Henry, Nina and Jordan who gave her the greatest joy. Services Tuesday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside
 HAMMOND--Aileen, 40, Marietta, GA died November 27, 2004. Aileen was a beautiful and loving person who was deeply loved by her family and all who knew her. She was a loving wife and devoted mother, daughter, sister, and aunt. Survivors include: husband, David Hammond, children, Michael and 
 HARRIS--Ethel. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her son I. Douglas Harris and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem
 HOCHBERG--Rita. On November 28, 2004. After a long illness surrounded by her family. Adored wife of Irwin, beloved mother of Mitchell, Richard & Jonathan. Loving mother-in-law of Suzan and Stacy, Cherished Bubbe of Isabelle, Julia, Jordan, Ethan and Sabrina, loving sister-in-law of Sybil Ba
 MARCUS--Anne. November 28, 2004, in her 94th year. A proud graduate of Hunter College, she taught mathematics for many years at Ellenville (NY) High School. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Marcus and mother of Kuni Yavneh and David Marcus. Grandmother of Tenli and Naomi Yavneh, and Gregory
 MULVANEY--Dr. Eileen G. (nee O'Keefe). Died Monday in Long Beach. Born in Queens, N.Y. November 18, 1930. She lived most of her life on Long Island including Manhasset, Garden City and Long Beach. She was a graduate of Mount St. Vincent Academy, Tuxedo Park, and Marymount (Manhattan) Colleg
 SABRIN--Alma (nee Rossi), 86, of Manhasset and Westhampton Beach died peacefully November 23, 2004. Adored wife of the late Dr. George Sabrin. Beloved mother of Russell, Douglas, Amy and Pamela; dear mother-in-law of Evans and Carole. Inspirational grandmother of Adam, Michael and Lucy. Bor
 SCHULMAN -- Harold. The Women's Committee of Lighthouse International, Dr. Barbara Silverstone, William B. Follett, members of the board of directors and the entire Lighthouse family extend heartfelt sympathies to our dedicated volunteer Martha Schulman on the passing of her husband.       
 SHELLEY--Sarah O'Hara. In Branford November 22, 2004. A twenty three year survivor of breast cancer, of 24 Thimble Farms Rd., Branford. She was born March 9, 1937 in Englewood, NJ, daughter of the late Robert Sydney and Katharine Drayton O'Hara. Beloved mother of Katharine Brockie Hurley (M
 STEVENSON -- Lauralee Trent. Died after a short illness on Friday, November 26. She was a 32-year resident of New York City, after traveling the world as the wife of an Air Force Officer, Maj. Gen. John D. Stevenson, deceased. Born in Lynchburg, VA, she was a graduate of Gunston Hall in Was
 STONE -- Lyudmila. Passed away November 28, 2004 after a year-long bout with cancer. Beloved daughter of Dr. Zoya Tsukerman and the late Dr. Izyeslav Tsukerman. Dear wife of Andy Stone. Loving mother and motherin-law of Anna and Albert, and best-friend of Mishka. Mila was a person of quiet 
