 Fernando Gutierrez Barrios, Mexico's longtime spymaster, the feared chief of its secret police and a formidable figure in the once-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, died of a heart attack on Monday in a hospital here. He was 73. Mr. Gutierrez Barrios, who had worked for si
 ALLEN-Neil Turner Jr. Age 70, of NYC, passed away on October 26, 2000. Mr. Allen was born on June 28, 1930, in Brownsville, TX. He was preceded in death by his friend of over 30 years, Harold Mattsson. He is survived by his nephew Jack M. Allen Jr., of Albuquerque, NM, and his niece Julie A
 COULOUCOUNDIS-Emmanuel J. On October 30th, 2000 at age 74. Beloved husband of the late Cleopatra. Loving father of John and Sonya. Cherished grandfather of Emmanuel and Michael. Dear brother of Elias and Mary, Maria and Ulysses, Basil and Claudia, Nicholas and Maria. Devoted son-inlaw of El
 FELSINGER-Mortimer Nathaniel. October 30, 2000. Life will never be the same without our dear, wonderful, one-of-a-kind Morty. He was THE BEST!-a devoted son, a loving, caring husband, a dear father and father-in-law, an adoring grandfather, the best brother and brother-in-law; an asset to h
 FUCHS-Joseph. On October 30, 2000. A born & bred New Yorker, residing in Greenwich Village for over 50 years. Proud to be an American, and proud to be Jewish. He joined the Navy at 18, and at 23, The Merchant Marines, serving with courage in the North Atlantic and Pacific in World War II. A
 KAPLAN-Sydney, Died October 30, 2000 at the age of 85. Beloved husband and fishing buddy of Sylvia. Loving and loved father of Judy (Martin) Milner and Howard (Sharon) Kaplan. Beloved grandfather of Eric and Jeffrey Milner and Jeremy Kaplan. Dear brother of Beatrice Kraus. He will be missed
 LEVY-Robert I., M.D. The Board, Staff and membership of Research!America honor the life of Dr. Robert I. Levy, Senior VP, American Home Products and former director of the National Institutes of Health's Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. He was a global leader committed to making medical and
 PRESSMAN-Richard A. In Orlando, FL, Oct. 26. Survived by daughters Deborah Harbin & Elizabeth Pressman; son-in-law Ray Harbin; granddaughters Deryn & Kendell Harbin; brother William Pressman. Born in Philadelphia 1/31/16, Dik lived most of his life in Bklyn & Queens. A devoted and generous 
 QUINN-Kevin. It is with deepest sadness that we share the news of the passing of Kevin Quinn, Lower Eastside Center's Senior Vice President. Kevin died at Calvary Hospital on October 30, from kidney cancer. Kevin will long be remembered for his 27 years of utmost dedication to LESC. Kevin f
 TEDLOW-Samuel L. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the loss of our very dear friend, Samuel L. Tedlow, a member of the board for more than 24 years, who served as a managing director for 10 years and was an honorary director at the time of his death. A courtly, kind and ge
 WALKER-Robert W. July 17, 1923October 30, 2000. Beloved husband of Georgina (Rena), loving father of Gail (Nicholas) Patitucci, Lynn (Michael) Kern, Robert (Nancy) Walker and Coreen (Wayne) Sumple. Devoted grandfather of Krista, Scott, Jennifer, Heather, Kimberly, Robbie, Colin, Tyler, Kyle
 WIGGINS-Ronald E. The partners, associates and staff of Fross Zelnick Lehrman & Zissu record with profound sorrow the sudden loss of our associate and friend, Ronald E. Wiggins, on October 28, 2000. Ron joined our firm in 1998, and immediately became an active and highly-valued member of ou
 Steve Allen, the versatile entertainer who created the ''Tonight'' show for NBC in 1953 and was widely regarded as a founding father of the late-night talk show, died on Monday at the home of his son Bill in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was apparently a
 ALLEN-Steve. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed longtime Member Steve Allen. He put the gold in the golden age of television, not to mention the rhythm. His genius for comedy and for music has given him an esteemed and val
 CHRZANOWSKI-Dr. Gerard. Died in his home on the Upper East Side on November 1. Eminent psychoanalyst, founder of the Bleuler Institute for Psychotherapy, and co-founder of the International Federation of Psychoanalytic Societies, past president of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic So
 COULOUCOUNDIS-Emmanuel J. On October 30th, 2000 at age 74. Beloved husband of the late Cleopatra. Loving father of John and Sonya. Cherished grandfather of Emmanuel and Michael. Dear brother of Elias and Mary, Maria and Ulysses, Basil and Claudia, Nicholas and Maria. Devoted son-inlaw of El
 KANE-James E., 88, of West Hartford, CT. Died October 31, 2000. Born on October 16th, 1912 in Bridgeport, CT, he served during WWII and retired in 1972 from the Veteran's Administration as an Assistant Chief Attorney. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Alice Kane; a daughter and son-in
 MULHEREN-John A., 87. Of Rumson, NJ on October 31, 2000. Former Director of Advertising Sales with Schnell Publishing, NY, NY. Husband of the late Isabel A. (nee Kane). Father of John A. Jr., Michael W., Maureen Mulheren, Colleen A. Wood, Patricia Skinner, and Katherine M. Cabrera. Grandfat
 PIERCE-Samuel Riley, Jr. Born September 8, 1922, Glen Cove, LI, died October 31, 2000 in Maryland. Former partner in law firm Battle, Fowler and former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, 1981-1989. A memorial service will be held on November 18 at 11AM at St. Marks Methodist Church
 REDMOND-Dewitt Jr. On October 26, 2000, in his 68th year. Loving husband of Amanda (Jones). Brother of Hertacine Redmond, Jamaica, NY, Cleta Dutton, Benny Redmond and Matthew Redmond of Gulfport, Miss, and Joseph Redmond of Atlanta, GA. He was employed by The New York Times newspaper for ov
 TURNESA-Michael C., 93, of Elmsford, NY. Died October 31, 2000 at Phelps Memorial Hospital, Sleepy Hollow, NY. Michael was born June 9, 1907 to Vitalie and Anna (nee Pascarella) Turnesa. Mr. Turnesa was the Golf Pro at Knollwood Country Club, Elmsford, NY from 1942 thru 1986 & the Director 
 Ring Lardner Jr., whose satirical screenplays twice won the Academy Award but whose career collapsed in 1947 after he refused to tell Congress if he had ever been a Communist, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Mr. Lardner was the last surviving son of Ring Lardner
 CHAVE-Paul T. Age 87, November 2, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife Rita M. Chave (nee Harrington), pre-deceased by daughter Anne Marie in 1944, also survived by several nieces and nephews. He was an executive in the textile industry in Manhattan for 50 years and most recently CEO of Chave
 CHRZANOWSKI - Gerard, MD. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of Dr. Gerard Chrzanowski's graduation from The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute. Given that he had a talent for both contributing to and extracting from any given day, twice as much as most mortals, he can wit
 CLEVELAND-Donald L. Of Greenwich, CT, died October 27. Survived by Caroline, his wife of 61 years, three sons, 2 brothers, 2 nephews. Memorial contributions may be made to Greenwich Hospital, 5 Perryridge Rd., Greenwich CT. 06830.       
 FEINER-Benjamin. Of Malverne, NY and Delray Beach, FL, passed away on Thursday, November 2, 2000. Devoted husband of Jeanne for 69 years, beloved father of Irwin and Fred. Devoted father-inlaw of Elizabeth and JoAnne. Adored grandfather of Steven, Andrea and Andrew, Scott, Robert and Alexan
 FELSINGER-Mortimer Nathaniel. The generations of families who have grown and built enduring friendships at Camp Monroe, express their deepest gratitude to our friend whose strength and steadiness behind the scenes supported their summer home. He was a source of wisdom, integrity and guidanc
 GRIFFIN-James J. Sr., 79, died November 1, 2000. He is survived by his wife Helen, two children James J. Griffin Jr. and Meg Griffin and 3 grandchildren Lauren, James J. III and Knoah. A memorial Mass will be held Saturday at 10:00AM at St. Bernards Church in White Plains. McMahon, Lyon & H
 GROSS-Bernard L. On October 31 in Stamford, CT. Father of William and adoring Pop-Pop to Katherine. Born Lion Gross in Brooklyn, N.Y. in 1915. He always lived up to that name. A business executive who took on his most cherished roleProfessor-in his later years. His knowledge, strength and u
 HAGEN-Dale W., October 8, 2000. Loving husband of Sharon, brother of Bill, of pancreatic cancer in Sarasota, Florida. A memorial service will be held on Monday November 13th at 6:00 PM at Marble Collegiate Church, 29th and Fifth Avenue, Manhattan. Contributions in his memory may be made to 
 HIRSCH-Stuart M. It is with profound sadness that we share the news of the passing of Stuart M. Hirsch, 71, of New Providence, N.J. Born and raised in Plainfied, N.J., he had a long and distinguished career in the real estate and publishing industries, complimented by extensive commitment t
 LARDNER-Ring, Jr. The Tisch School of the Arts mourns the passing of the great writer and dramatist, Ring Lardner, Jr. In his time teaching screenwriting in the Department of Dramatic Writing with Ian Hunter and with Waldo Salt, Mr. Lardner had a profound influence on his students. He was a
 MULHEREN-John A. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of NY note with sadness the passing of John A. Mulheren Sr., beloved father of John A Jr., a dear friend of the Jewish community who has enhanced our network's legal services to the poor through his exceptional g
 REIS-Donald J., MD of New York City and Stonington, CT, beloved husband of Cornelia Langer Noland and stepfather of Lyn, Cady and William Noland, died at age 69 on November 1, 2000. He was the George C. Cotzias Distinguished Professor of Neurology and Neuroscience at Cornell Medical Center 
 VELENIK-Anton. On October 29, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret Regan and son of Emiglia and the late Marco. Devoted father of Gary, Pedro and Christopher. Dear brother of Angelo and brother-in-law of Ina. Survived by his nephew Zeljko and niece Sylvia and other family members. A memorial s
 WEISBERG-Robert David. The Clergy, Officers, Board of Trustees, and the members of the Ocean Parkway Jewish Center announce with profound sadness the passing of their beloved President, Robert David Weisberg, Esquire. Robert D. Weisberg served the Ocean Parkway Jewish Center as President fo
 Samuel R. Pierce Jr., whose accomplishments as one of the most prominent black lawyers of his generation were overshadowed by corruption and influence-peddling during his tenure as housing secretary in the Reagan administration, died on Tuesday. He was 78. Mr. Pierce failed to recov
 Sir Steven Runciman, a British historian who wrote stirring narratives of the crusades and the fall of the fabled Byzantine city of Constantinople to the 15th-century Turks, died on Wednesday in Radway, Warwickshire, England. He was 97 and lived in Dumfriesshire, in Scotland. Sir St
 Dr. Donald Jeffery Reis, a New York neurobiologist who explored the brain's role in human emotions, behavior and disease, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Stonington, Conn. The cause was complications during a liver transplant
 Joseph A. Greenwald, a diplomat who helped guide international trade policy for the United States over two decades, died on Monday in Washington. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, said his son John. Mr. Greenwald was appointed in 1969 to the post of ambassador to the Organi
 Kaj Aage Strand, an astronomer and former scientific director of the United States Naval Observatory, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 93. In 1958, Dr. Strand joined the observatory, the nation's time-keeper and celestial observer since 1830, as head of its astronomy and astrop
 Mike Turnesa, a member of a renowned Westchester County golfing family who competed as a top touring pro in the 1930's and 1940's and was runner-up to Ben Hogan in the 1948 Professional Golfers Association Championship, died Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 
 CLEVELAND-Donald L. Of Greenwich, CT, died October 27. Survived by Caroline, his wife of 61 years, three sons, 2 brothers, 2 grandchildren. Memorial contributions may be made to Greenwich Hospital, 5 Perryridge Rd., Greenwich CT. 06830.       
 DAVISON-Charles Hamilton, 73, died Thursday, November 2nd, at his home in Vero Beach, FL. Formerly Deputy Chairman of Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co. (precursor to today's KPMG); Vice Chairman of Smith Barney; Chairman and owner of Paramount Cards, Pawtucket, RI. He was a graduate of Dartmouth 
 ELBIN (ELBOGEN)-Herman Zvi, died November 3rd, 2000. He was born December 19th, 1915. The funeral was held in Jerusalem, Israel. The surviving families are Elbin, Ronen and Penchina in New York, Tel-Aviv, Baltimore, and North Egremont.       
 GRIGG-Joseph W. of Peachtree City, GA, passed away on October 29th at the age of 90. Educated at Westminster Boys School in London and at Trinity College, Cambridge, he went on to an illustrious 50-year career with United Press. Serving at various times as Bureau Manager in Berlin, London, 
 PHILLIPS-Nicholas R., Sr. Age 64, of Wyckoff, NJ, died Thursday, November 2, 2000 at the Valley Hospital, Ridgewood. Born in NY, NY, a Wyckoff resident for the past 27 years. Nicholas was the owner and president of Wexkill Inc. of Wyckoff and a former money manager at Kalb Voorhis & Company
 REIS-Donald J., MD of New York City and Stonington, CT, beloved husband of Cornelia Langer Noland and stepfather of Lyn, Cady and William Noland, died at age 69 on November 1, 2000. He was the George C. Cotzias Distinguished Professor of Neurology and Neuroscience at Cornell Medical Center 
 Walter Shenson, the producer of the Beatles' films ''A Hard Day's Night'' and ''Help!,'' died on Oct. 17 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 81. Mr. Shenson, who was born in San Francisco, was working in London as a film producer -- most notably of ''The Mouse That Roared,'' with Peter
 Winston Grennan, a Jamaican drummer whose extensive studio work crystallized and disseminated the fundamental reggae rhythm called one drop, died on Oct. 27 in Nantucket, Mass., where he had moved this year. He was 56. The cause was lung and bone cancer, said his wife, Ellie Hiteshe
 Alexander W. Allport, a founder of the Green Guerillas, died on Oct. 15 in a Mount Vernon, N.Y., hospital. He was 78 and lived in Denver, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said a daughter, Susan Allport Howell. The Green Guerillas, founded in 1973, is a nonprofit group that
 ANBARLIAN-Harry. On November 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Marina Masi Anbarlian. Dear brother-in-law of Peter and Marisa Johnson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, November 6, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may 
 BOGHOSSIAN-Berg A. 81. Died at Sloan Kettering on August 4. This special man leaves behind his beloved wife of 51 years Melinee, three daughters and five grandchildren. Up until his death he was a Manhattan attorney for more than 55 yrs. A Brooklyn native he attained the ranks of Eagle Scou
 Connor-Paul J. Jr. Former executive director of the Church Charity Foundation of Long Island for 23 years passed away on Sunday, October 29, 2000. He is survived by his son Paul and his daughters Claudia and Christine. Mr. Conner lived in Teaneck, NJ.       
 COUPER-Gordon S. Died suddenly and peacefully at home on October 30, 2000. Loving husband of Gail C. Neild, father to Ian and Judith (Childs) of England, brother of Alistair of Florida and Sheila (Buck) of Montana. Funeral services will be held on November 11 at 11 AM at The Church of the G
 DANIELS-Richard C. Of Palm Beach, FL, and formerly of Worcester, MA, died on October 31, 2000. He was a well-loved philanthropist known for his contributions to community arts and education. A veteran of World War II, he received a bachelor's degree from Clark University, studied drama at C
 GELMAN-Milton. Age 90, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died Thursday after a brief illness. He leaves his loving family, his wife Sylvia (Garfield) of West Palm Beach, two daughters, Arlene Brod and her companion Barry Kay of Great Neck, NY, and Nancy Blecher Davis and her husb
 GLICK-Frederick Philip. was born in Philadelphia, PA, on December 7, 1910, and died on October 3, 2000. His family and friends loved Fred dearly, and we greatly miss sharing time and conversations with him. We miss his warm smile, his enthusiasm for life and learning, and his kindness, supp
 GOODSON - Abraham. Beloved husband of Shirley, cherished father of Carole (Roger Yu), Janice (Gordon Taylor) and Barbara (Bruce Gustafson), loving grandfather of Olivia and Andrew, dear brother of Ann Weiner and Rosalie Harris. Our precious Al passed away on November 2. Services will be hel
 GORDON-David E. On November 3. Beloved husband of Norma. Devoted father of Gerald and Helyn. Stepfather to Larry and Laurie. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. As a Teacher of Music for over 70 years he enriched the lives of those he touched.       
 ISRAEL-Milton. Age 94, on Friday November 3, 2000. Peacefully after a valiant fight. Loving husband of June, devoted father of Andrew Pullman and Dr. Amy Pullman, beloved grandfather of Milo Pullman, Michael Israel Diamond, Philip Diamond and Julia Diamond. His intellect, spirit and courage
 KEATS-William Perry. Of East Hampton, LI, a lawyer, died peacefully at home on Friday, November 3. He was 83. Memorial services will be held at 11 AM, Saturday, November 11, St. Luke's Episcopal Church, East Hampton, NY. He wil be cremated. Perry was born on June 20, 1917, in Brooklyn, NY. 
 MACKENZIE-Alexander Innes. Of Chappaqua, NY. 65. Died October 31, 2000, of colon cancer. Alec's wit, optimism and passion for history, music, art and sports will be greatly missed by his wife, Nora, his daughter Vickie, his brother Archie and his many friends. His daughter Katey predeceased
 MUNGER-Roy P., 91, of Norwich, VT. Retired Master of Trinity School. Survived by his wife, Judy, four children and six grandchildren. His memory will ever spark a smile to all who knew him.       
 POST-Seymour C., M.D. The Trustees, Officers and Members of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis would like to express their sorrow for the loss of Dr. Seymour Post, an esteemed member admired for his contribution to psychoanalysis, and to express their condolences to his wife Judy and hi
 REIS-Donald J., MD of New York City and Stonington, CT, beloved husband of Cornelia Langer Noland and stepfather of Lyn, Cady and William Noland, died at age 69 on November 1, 2000. He was the George C. Cotzias Distinguished Professor of Neurology and Neuroscience at Cornell Medical Center 
 RHEA-Alexander Dodson, III. Late of NYC, Ft. Worth, TX and White Sulphur Springs, WV, on Friday, September 1, 2000, in his 82nd year. A native of Whitney, TX, a graduate of Princeton University, he served as a Lieutenant Commander, US Navy, during World War II. Mr. Rhea was Vice President o
 WEINER-Phyllis. The Board of Trustees of Children's Medical Fund of New York expresses its deepest sympathy to our esteemed Chairman Emeritus, Martin Lifton on the death of his sister, Phyllis Weiner. Our thoughts are with him and his family. Jeffrey S. Jurick, Chairman Valerie Schultz, Man
 WIESENFELD-Seymour. Beloved husband of Audrey. Devoted father of Caryl and Martin McKellar, and Nancy. Dear grandfather of Paul and Kian. Fond brother of Irene Fine and the late Benjamin, Paul and Harry. Dear brother-inlaw of George Fine, Bess Wiesenfeld and Mildred Wiesenfeld, and Elaine a
 Robert E. Cormier, the author of 18 challenging and critically acclaimed books for young adults, died on Thursday. He was 75 and lived in Leominster, Mass. The cause was complications from a blood clot, said a daughter, Chris Cormier Hayes. Although several of Mr. Cormier's 
 Robert M. Carroll, who used tools from medieval times and the space age on his job as armorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Catherine Gallagher. From marshaling armies of
 Donald F. Lach, a historian who was an authority on Asia's influence on Europe from 1500 to 1800, died on Oct. 26 at a Chicago hospital. He was 83 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Lach (pronounced lock) became the university's Bernadotte E. Schmitt professor in history in 1969, after teach
 Jimmie H. Davis, the troubador and composer of one of America's best-loved songs, ''You Are My Sunshine,'' who yodeled and smiled his way into the hearts of Louisiana voters to serve two terms as their Singing Governor, died yesterday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. Mr. Davis, who a
 ANBARLIAN-Harry. On November 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Marina Masi Anbarlian. Dear brother-in-law of Peter and Marisa Johnson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, November 6, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may 
 FALK-Ferdie A. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, passed away on Friday, November 3, on his 72nd birthday. Mr. Falk, a well-known liquor executive worldwide, spanning over forty years in the liquor industry. He was founder, Chairman, and principal shareholder of the Ancient Age Distil
 JENNINGS-Fred M. Of Hobe Sound, FL, and Sandwich, NH, formerly of New Canaan, CT, on November 4, 2000, in Augusta, ME. He received his BA degree at San Diego State College and law degree at the University of Chicago. Fred served in the Pacific during WWII as an officer on the USS Guardfish,
 MOSS-Tobias (Toby). Of New Rochelle, NY, on November 4, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Florence Press. Loving father of Guy and Chet. Cherished father-inlaw of Joyce and Ruth. Adoring grandfather to Jason, David and Jenna. Devoted brother to Nanette and Milton. A friend to many. A man of
 David Brower, an uncompromising environmentalist who spent more than half a century fighting to protect America's wilderness areas against speculators, developers, state agencies and the federal government, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 88. Mr. Brower was wid
 Leonardo Benvenuti, who wrote some 200 film scripts, including classics like Sergio Leone's ''Once Upon a Time in America'' and Vittorio De Sica's ''Marriage, Italian Style,'' died on Friday in San Giacomo Hospital. He was 77. The cause was complications after heart bypass surgery. 
 ALPER-Jerome Milton. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jerome Milton Alper, beloved father of Andrew M. Alper, a long-time contributor and advocate of the work of UJA-Federation. To Andrew and his brother, Alan Alper; to his stepc
 BLAU-Vojtech. November 6 2000. Prominent dealer of fine antique rugs and tapestries. Beloved husband of Jolana, loving father of Simona and Andrea, cherished grandfather to Stefan and Sasha Krawitz, dear brother of Alex Blau. Services Wednedsay 11am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterda
 CONNOR-Paul J. Jr. Former executive director of the Church Charity Foundation of Long Island for 23 years passed away on Sunday, October 29, 2000. He is survived by his son Paul and his daughters Claudia and Christine. Mr. Connor lived in Teaneck, NJ. Services November 9 at The Cathedral Of
 GETTENBERG-Gustave. November 5, 2000. Beloved husband of Frieda. Dear brother-in-law of Jay Liben. Cherished uncle of Nina Kurzban and Lynn Liben. Services private. He will be deeply missed.       
 HANIGSBERG-Isabelle. The partners and staff of Stern Keiser Panken & Wohl, LLP mourn the passing of Isabelle, our dear friend and wife of Oscar. Our heartfelt grief goes out to Oscar and his family.       
 HUNT-Rev. Michael J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor Emeritus of Saint Frances de Chantal Church at 1273 58th Street, Brooklyn, on November 4, 2000. Reposing in Aievoli Funeral Home, 1275 65th Street, Brooklyn, on Tuesday November 7, 2000 from 2-4:30 P.M. Mass of T
 LORBER-Harry of Lake Worth, Florida and W Hempstead, NY died November 5. Beloved husband of Beatrice, he will also be deeply missed by his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, brother, sister and many other relatives and friends. An honors graduate of St John's Law School, Harry in
 MARINO-Romeo V. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of Romeo V. Marino, beloved father of our Trustee Ronald J. Marino. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Herman Badillo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor       
 MAYEN-Paul. Died on November 3, 2000. Noted Architect and Industrial designer, founder of Habitat, Intrex and Architectural Supplements, Inc. Designer of the Visitor's Center at Frank Lloyd Wright's Fallingwater. Many of his works are in the permanent collection at the Museum of Modern Art.
 Mc DUFFEE-William M. On November 4, 2000 at age ninety, formerly of Merrick, LI. Loving husband of the late Agnes and dear father of the late Joan. Devoted father of Donald, Mark, Gerald, Regis and Neal. Adoring grandfather of Donald, William, Helen K., Suzanne, Erin, Amy, Kevin, Kerry, Meg
 O'BRIAN-Jack. A long-time newspaper columnist, and radio talk show host in New York, died November 5, 2000 in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. In his nearly 60 years in journalism, Mr. O'Brian covered theatre, movies, radio, popular music and television at The Associated Press, The New York 
 REINISCH-Jerome, of Manalapan, NJ on October 26 at the age of 62. Jerry was one of the original members of the Peace Corps, serving from '62-'64 in Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, where he met his wife of 35 years, Gladys. Jerry was a graduate of Evander Childs High School and City College and s
 REIS-Donald J. George Cotzias, Distinguished Professor of Neurology & Neuroscience, Cornell Medical Center, Laboratory of Neurobiology. A terrific boss with an odd sense of humor, a huge imagination for what might be possible, a kindness for deviant talents, and a love for Cole Porter. Than
 ROBINSON-Walter. On November 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Sondra. Adoring father of Amy Press and father-in-law of Lyle. Devoted grandfather of Haley and Emily. Brother of Sue. Dearest uncle of Alan, Edward, Ronald, and Kenneth. Funeral serivce at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 S
 ROTELLA-Gregory. Died on November 3, 2000 at his home in Short Hills NJ following a lengthy illness. He was 51. Mr. Rotella was an executive at Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City for more than thirty years, where he rose from a management trainee position to become a senior vice presiden
 STEIN-Jack. The principals and staff of Jacoby Associates mourn the loss of Jack Stein who has been affiliated with our agency since 1956. Our sympathies to his wife Joyce, his son Ron, his daughter Linda and their families. His memory will long endure.       
 WOLOSHIN-Sidney E. On November 5, 2000 at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Ellen and Mark, and Jonathan and Debra. Adoring grandfather of Jake and Julia. Cherished brother of Norma Basch. Pioneer in the jingle and advertising business. Award-winning music producer.
 RIEBER-On this, Martin Rieber's birthday, our family wishes to express our sincere thanks to each and every one who has touched his life-especially to our friends who have stood by us during the most difficult of times. Ruth B. Rieber and Family       
 Thomas Baird Campion, a former New York Times director of operations, campus administrator at the University of Massachusetts and innovative fund-raiser for Dartmouth College, died on Friday at his retirement home in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84 and formerly lived in Hanover, N.H., and Bronxvill
 Donald D. Jones, a retired ombudsman for The Kansas City Star, died on Sunday at a hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 73 and lived in Kansas City. The cause was cancer of the bone marrow, the newspaper said. Mr. Jones, who was known as Casey, spent much of his career at The
 Jack O'Brian, a longtime New York newspaper columnist who brought a breezy, peppery style to writing about television and Broadway gossip, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A Time magazine profile in 1964 noted that Mr. O'Brian began writing about televi
 ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. Of New York City. At age 85. Died on November 5, 2000. Survived by his wife, Charlotte, and his children, Katherine C.A. Young, James S. Armstrong, Jr., Stephen H. and Jeanne H. Armstrong, Robert S. & Phoebe H. Armstrong & Elisabeth Armstrong-Bushey; also, his niece, 
 BLAU-Vojtech. November 6 2000. Prominent dealer of fine antique rugs and tapestries. Beloved husband of Jolana, loving father of Simona and Andrea, cherished grandfather to Stefan and Sasha Krawitz, dear brother of Alex Blau. Services Wednedsay 11am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterda
 CHARROW-Saul. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Charles and Joel. Beloved grandfather. Services on Thursday at 11:15 AM at ''Parkside'' Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills. CHARROW-Saul. Long standing member of the Board of Directors of the Workmen's Cir
 DUNNING-James Dorr. On November 7, 2000, at his home in New York City, after a long illness. He was 89. Mr. Dunning was an executive of New York Life Insurance Company for 45 years. For 25 years he served as a consultant to the Episcopal Church Pension Fund. His extensive lay leadership in 
 FAHEY-John. On November 4, 2000. Of Bronxville, NY. Husband of the late Anne Maureen (Sally) Fahey and Marie (Pinky) Rossiter Fahey. Father of Derek Blakely and his wife Nora Duffy Fahey. Step-father of Lyn McFarland, William and Deidrich Rossiter. Service Bronxville Cemetery on Saturday, N
 JEWETT-Charles Wood, 87, of Mt. Archer Rd., Lyme, CT died Friday, November 3, 2000 at his home. Mr. Jewett was a prominent attorney, banker and former lieutenant governor of Connecticut. Mr. Jewett is survived by his wife of 62 years, Mary ''Molly'' Sheafe Jewett, two sons, Jonathan Jewett 
 LYNAUGH-Thomas J., 61, of Ridgewood formerly of Norristown, PA on November 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Susan nee Dickey, loving father of Brendan and Sean, and loving son-in-law of Frank and Amy Dickey of Dewitt, NY. Dedicated teacher and psychoanalyst in Manhattan and Boston. He was a memb
 MAYEN-Paul. Died on November 3, 2000. Noted Architect and Industrial designer, founder of Habitat, Intrex and Architectural Supplements, Inc. Designer of the Visitor's Center at Frank Lloyd Wright's Fallingwater. Many of his works are in the permanent collection at the Museum of Modern Art.
 MUNNELLY-Patrick Joseph. Age 68, of Coram. Formerly of Valley Stream, on Nov. 6, 2000. Beloved husband of Jean M. (nee Haubold). Devoted father of Patrice (and Roy) Klein, Brian, and Maureen. Cherished grandfather of Jaclyn and Matthew. Also survived by his loving brothers John, Kevin, and 
 O'BRIAN-Jack. A long-time newspaper columnist, and radio talk show host in New York, died November 5, 2000 in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. In his nearly 60 years in journalism, Mr. O'Brian covered theatre, movies, radio, popular music and television at The Associated Press, The New York 
 PAIGE-William C. Born January 3, 1922-died November 7, 2000 of emphysema at his home in Florida. Mr. Paige was Director of Advertising and Public Relations for the French House of Revillon Freres, in charge of fur parfums and wholesale divisions throughout the United States in the 1950s and
 RATNER-Isaac ''Bill''. Of Brooklyn. Died November 2, in his 94th year. His wife of over 60 years, Ida, died last year. He is survived by his brother, Arthur, & his sister, Gertrude, a nephew and three nieces. His humor and style made him one of a kind. He will be missed by family and friend
 STEIN-Jack J. Of Melville, L.I., on November 6, 2000. A kind, wise and joyful man loved by all. Devoted husband of Joyce Stein. Loving father of Linda Stein and Ron Feldman-Stein. Cherished grandfather of Mikah and Jesse Feldman-Stein. Caring brother of Evelyn Cooper. Beloved son of the lat
 TUCKER-Harrison E. The Baruch College community records with sorrow the death of Associate Professor, Harrison E. Tucker, the founder and long-time chairman of the Department of Black and Hispanic Studies. Born in Africa, Professor Tucker had a distinguished career as a magistrate and membe
 VAN RIPER-Hart E. 95, formerly of New York. On November 4, 2000 at his residence in Indianapolis. During his medical career, Dr. Van Riper was Medical Director of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis and oversaw the research program under which the Salk vaccine was developed. He 
 WOLOSHIN-Sidney E. On November 5, 2000 at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Ellen and Mark, and Jonathan and Debra. Adoring grandfather of Jake and Julia. Cherished brother of Norma Basch. Pioneer in the jingle and advertising business. Award-winning music producer.
 Roger Peyrefitte, a prolific French writer who seemed to delight in shocking French literary and social circles by detailing his homosexual adventures in print and by ''outing'' prominent figures in French public life in his romans a clef, died on Sunday at his home in Paris. He was 93.    
 Brooks Smith, a pianist and teacher who for many years toured and made recordings with the violinist Jascha Heifetz, died on Oct. 31 in Covina, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Hacienda Heights, Calif., near Los Angeles. Mr. Smith was born in McAllen, Tex., in 1912 and began his piano 
 Frederick S. Clarke, the creator, owner, editor and publisher of Cinefantastique, a magazine about science fiction, fantasy and horror films, died on Oct. 17 in Adair County, Iowa. He was 51 and lived in Oak Park, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He had been suffering from depression and com
 Dr. Hart Edgar Van Riper, a pediatrician who as a foundation official shepherded the development of the vaccines that virtually wiped out polio in the United States, died Saturday in Indianapolis. A former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 95. Dr. Van Riper was me
 J. Sinclair Armstrong, a Manhattan banker, lawyer and high government official whose 60-year career in the quiet corridors of power had its most public battle in the fight to stop St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church from building a skyscraper on its Manhattan property in the 1980's, died on 
 ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. Of New York City. At age 85. Died on November 5, 2000. Survived by his wife, Charlotte, and his children, Katherine C.A. Young, James S. Armstrong, Jr., Stephen H. and Jeanne H. Armstrong, Robert S. & Phoebe H. Armstrong & Elisabeth Armstrong-Bushey; also, his niece, 
 CHARROW-Saul. Long standing member of the Board of Directors of the Workmen's Circle Multicare Center. He was dedicated to working on behalf of the residents and providing the best quality of care and quality of life to all residents. He will be missed by all who knew him. Samuel Byer, Pres
 CHOATE-Thomas Hyde. Of Locust Valley, L.I. on November 8, 2000. Age 85. Beloved husband of Jane Harte. Father of Jane Beck and Caroline de Chazal. Brother of Anne Hyde Patterson. Grandfather of Thomas, Rowan, Justine and David. Great-grandfather of Mary Elizabeth. Service St. John's of Latt
 COHEN-Rabbi Herschel. Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah mourns the passing of Rabbi Herschel Cohen, Associate Rabbi of Lincoln Square Synagogue. Committed to his family, his congregation, his community and his Yeshiva, he will be missed by all. We extend our condolences to his wife Shu
 DUNNING-James Dorr. On November 7, 2000, at his home in New York City, after a long illness. He was 89. Mr. Dunning was an executive of New York Life Insurance Company for 45 years. For 25 years he served as a consultant to the Episcopal Church Pension Fund. His extensive lay leadership in 
 GROSS-Milton S., December 11, 1918-November 5, 2000. Long-time New York City high school teacher, dedicated teacher's union member, and Oberlin College graduate, Milton S. Gross, died peacefully at home in Berkeley, California, following a short illness. He was committed to civil rights, so
 LADOUSIER-Roderick G. On November 6, 2000 in St. Louis, MO after a long illness. He was 77. Beloved brother and uncle, Roderick Ladousier is survived by his sister, Hazel Mitchell of San Francisco, CA, sister-in-law, Joanne Ladousier of Grand Rapids, MI and many blessed nephews and nieces. 
 LOBB-Anthony W., Colonel Ret., age 91, died October 24, 2000. Husband of Annemarie Lobb. Father of Jens G., Wayne A. and William A. Grandfather of Jens G. Jr., William H., Andrew, William A. and Anthony. Interment of his ashes will take place at a later date in Arlington National Cemetery. 
 PRISANT-Millard. On November 8, 2000, at his home in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. after a brief illness. Adored husband of Carol Lincoff Prisant and father of Barden. Born in Albany, GA. on May 27, 1935 to Myron and Lillian Prisant, Millard Prisant graduated from Shady Side Academy in Pittsburgh, an
 WEISER-Harry. At 95, of Rego Park, NY, died peacefully at home November 8. Beloved husband of Rose (deceased); loving father of Alan and his wife, Ruth, and Eleanor (deceased); devoted and cherished grandfather of David, Debra and Diane, and beloved uncle. He will be missed by all who knew 
 WENDROFF-Bernard E. on November 7, 2000 at age 72. Beloved husband of Rosanna. Loving father of Barry and his wife Andrea and Jill and her husband Bill. Treasured brother of Paula and Alan Barnett, son of the late Rose and Louis. Adoring grandfather of Ali, dear uncle. A most cherised frien
 WERTHEIM-Julius. Died on November 7th in Stuart, Florida. He is survived by his wife Herta Levy Wertheim, his children Les, Michael and Elaine and grandchildren Mariell, Jonathan, William, Sarah and Jeremy. Services will be held Friday, November 10, 10am at Hirsch & Sons, 1225 Jerome Avenue
 WOLCOTT-Samuel Huntington, Jr. On November 7, 2000 in Westwood, MA. He was a graduate of Saint Paul's School and Harvard College 1933, where he lettered in three varsity sports. Mary, his beloved wife of 56 years, pre-deceased him in 1990. He is survived by three children, Samuel Huntington
 Chidambaram Subramaniam, the political architect of the ''green revolution'' in India, which made the nation self-sufficient in wheat production, died Tuesday in Madras. He was 90. Mr. Subramaniam employed his formidable skills as a political persuader and administrator to spread th
 Sidney E. Woloshin, co-composer of ''You Deserve a Break Today,'' the jingle that set the chipper tone for the national introduction of McDonald's restaurants in 1971, died on Sunday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72. The cause of death was pneumonia, said his wife, Sylvia G. Wolo
 Vernel Fournier, a drummer who took part in some of the most modern and far-reaching permutations of small-group jazz as a member of the Ahmad Jamal Trio in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Saturday in Jackson, Miss. He was 72. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his da
 Eric Morley, who made a parade of pretty girls in swimsuits into a televised international sport with millions of fans, died Thursday in London. He was 82. A former British Army bandsman turned entertainment promoter, he had an extraordinarily simple idea in 1951, when he was asked 
 Etienne Aigner, a Hungarian-born belt maker and designer whose line of cordovan accessories with a distinctive omega-shaped logo helped define the preppy look of the 1960's and 70's, died in New York on Sunday, three days before what would have been his 96th birthday. He had homes in New Yo
 L. Sprague de Camp, who wrote over 100 science-fiction and fantasy novels and numerous short stories, died on Monday in Plano, Tex., where he lived. He was 92. Mr. de Camp was widely regarded as an imaginative and innovative writer and was an important figure in the heyday of scienc
 Larry Rhine, a writer whose 50-year career embraced radio, television and films, died on Oct. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 90. Mr. Rhine achieved his greatest success with ''All in the Family,'' which starred Carroll O'Connor as the loudmouthed Archie Bunker. His scripts brought him tw
 ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The members of The Saint Nicholas Society of the City of New York are saddened by the death of their distinguished member, and express their deepest sympathy to his family. John Milnes Baker, President John Shannon, Secretary ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair, CBE. The Pi
 BUSCH-Robert. On November 9th, 2000 at age 86. Died peacefully at his home surrounded by his beloved wife, Norma (Ponoroff), and devoted family, Carole Rako and Bonnie and John Stephens. He practiced dentistry in Freeport for over 40 years. A kind and generous man, Bob touched all who knew 
 CHOATE-Thomas Hyde. The Friends of Hyde Hall, Cooperstown, NY express their sorrow at the death of Thomas Hyde Choate. Founding Board member in 1964, former President and active supporter. The Board extends sympathy to his widow Jane and his family. Anne C. Logan, Chairman       
 DARREN-John. On Novemnber 8, 2000 at home after a long illness. Survived by his loving wife Eileen, his darling daughter Nicole, three brothers, three sisters and his beloved mother Helen. John grew up in Rhode Island and served in the US Navy. He then moved to NYC where he pursued a career
 DUNNING-James Dorr. On November 7, 2000, at his home in New York City, after a long illness. He was 89. Mr. Dunning was an executive of New York Life Insurance Company for 45 years. For 25 years he served as a consultant to the Episcopal Church Pension Fund. His extensive lay leadership in 
 JUSSEM-Max (Motle). On November 9th., 92 years old, born in Poland. Beloved husband of the late Sonia. Survived by sister-inlaw, Lola Jusem of Israel; loving nieces, Sandy Levy of Israel and Pearl Jusem of Cambridge, Mass., and their families. Also survived by beloved companion, Molly Nussb
 PLATZER-David. Beloved husband of Frances. Adored father of Steven and Nancy Platzer, Robin Platzer Judson and Robert Judson. Proud grandfather of David Lawrence Platzer, Adam Platzer and Melanie Rose Judson. Services will be held on Sunday, November 12 at 10 AM at the ''Riverside'', 76 St.
 SHERIDAN-Robert A. Founder, Windham Mountain Ski Area, Windham Mountain Club, on November 9th. Survived by his wife Hope, son Bob, and daughters, Mimi and Margot. Visiting Follett Funeral Home, Sunday, November 12, 2-4, 7-9pm, WHB. Funeral Mass Monday, 10AM, Immaculate Conception Church. Lu
 SILBERSTEIN-Mark Filer, 51, beloved son of Janet F. and the late Leon M. Silberstein, treasured brother of Judy Rosemarin and Jo Ellen Silberstein, adored uncle of Donna Stevens, Julie Rosemarin and David Weinstein and greatuncle of Jonathan and Emily Stevens, died unexpectedly on November 
 Victor Grinich, an electronics industry pioneer who helped start Fairchild Semiconductor in 1957 with seven other defectors from a small start-up founded by the Nobel Prize winner William Shockley, died last Sunday in Mountain View, Calif. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, s
 Gary Bonasorte, a playwright and a founder of an AIDS research clinic, died on Thursday. He was 45 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was lymphoma, said his companion, the playwright Terrence McNally. Mr. Bonasorte was the author of numerous plays, many of them produc
 James Dorr Dunning, an insurance executive who was senior warden of St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in Manhattan during a rancorous dispute over high-rise development on its land, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 89. At the outset of the struggle, which 
 Prof. John S. Morrison, a scholar whose boyhood vision of ancient Greek boats known as triremes inspired a modern re-creation of that juggernaut, died on Oct. 25 in London. He was 87. An academic and a college administrator, Professor Morrison was a central figure in one of the 20th
 COXEN-Fred H. On November 8, 2000 at Saint Vincent's Hospital. Retired from Exhibition Productions at the Museum of Modern Art. Alumnus of Cranbrook Academy of Art. Korean War Veteran. Born in Topeka, Kansas, he is survived by sister Norma Risley of Kansas, a brother Francis Coxen of Oregon
 DUNNING-James Dorr. On November 7, 2000, at his home in New York City, after a long illness. He was 89. Mr. Dunning was an executive of New York Life Insurance Company for 45 years. For 25 years he served as a consultant to the Episcopal Church Pension Fund. His extensive lay leadership in 
 HAFER-Henry M. 83, lawyer, on November 10. Beloved husband of Elsie; loving father of Carol and Sally Hafer; William, Edward and Richard Shain; grandfather of Patrick and Will Reina, Charles, Rebecca, Samantha, and Albertine Shain. Graduate of Horace Mann, NYU and NYU Law School. Retired Ca
 JUSSEM-Max (Motle). On November 9th., 92 years old, born in Poland. Beloved husband of the late Sonia. Survived by sister-inlaw, Lola Jusem of Israel; loving nieces, Sandy Levy of Israel and Pearl Jusem of Cambridge, Mass., and their families. Also survived by beloved companion, Molly Nussb
 LEVY-Sylvia D. On November 11, 2000. J.D., NY University, and artist. Beloved wife of the late Eli B. Levy. Daughter of the late David and Minnie Goldstein. Niece of the late Judge Jonah J. Goldstein. Devoted mother of Lynn and Leland S. Zaubler, and the late John H. Levy. Loving grandmothe
 MARSHALL-Richard M. Died on November 10, 2000 in Greenwich, CT, at the age of 75. He was a decorated Ranger in the 86th Infantry Division of the Blackhawks in World War II. A Harvard Law School graduate, class of '50, a partner in the New York law firm of Marshall & Tucker, and a partner in
 MAYEN-Paul. Died on November 3, 2000. Noted Architect and Industrial designer, founder of Habitat, Intrex and Architectural Supplements, Inc. Designer of the Visitor's Center at Frank Lloyd Wright's Fallingwater. Many of his works are in the permanent collection at the Museum of Modern Art.
 PLATZER-David. Beloved husband of Frances. Adored father of Steven and Nancy Platzer, Robin Platzer Judson and Robert Judson. Proud grandfather of David Lawrence Platzer, Adam Platzer and Melanie Rose Judson. Services will be held on Sunday, November 12 at 10 AM at the ''Riverside'', 76 St.
 SILBERSTEIN-Mark Filer, 51, beloved son of Janet F. and the late Leon M. Silberstein, treasured brother of Judy Rosemarin and Jo Ellen Silberstein, adored uncle of Donna Stevens, Julie Rosemarin and David Weinstein and greatuncle of Jonathan and Emily Stevens, died unexpectedly on November 
 SNOW-Norman L., Jr. of Naples, FL and Greenwich, CT died October 31, 2000 after a long battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Carolyn, loving father of Wendy O'Keeffe, Norman L. Snow III and Laura C. Snow; dear grandfather of Caitlin, Megan, Devin, Madison, Mary and Mackenzie; brother Paul 
 TRESNOWSKE-John. 79, died at his home after a long illness on Tuesday, November 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Valerie, loving father of Charles and Richard. He served in the Armed Forces in Europe from 1942 to 1945. He practiced law for many years and served under three Mayors. He was our gui
 KONIAK-Dr. Michael Richard. 1/14/46-11/10/99. So greatly missed. He gave of himself to others. He will live forever in the hearts of his loving and devoted family.       
 Richard K. Webel, a landscape architect who designed for museums, colleges, racetracks and corporations, died Nov. 1 at a hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Glen Head, N.Y. Mr. Webel retired in 1995 from his firm, Innocenti & Webel, after practicing for more than si
 Charles F. Hockett, one of the last great champions of structural linguistics, an approach to the study of language upstaged by the ''Chomsky Revolution'' of the 1950's, died Nov. 3 at the Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Ithaca. Before his retirement in 
 Jacques Chaban-Delmas, a former French prime minister who tried to embrace social change despite the resistance of his conservative colleagues, died on Friday of a heart attack at his home in Paris, his family said. He was 85. Dashing and athletic, Mr. Chaban-Delmas was first a hero
 ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The Bramwell Funds are deeply saddened by the loss of their founding independent Director. We will miss his wise counsel, historical perspective, enthusiasm and vision over the past six years. Elizabeth R. Bramwell, President       
 BROCKBANK-Robert T. 54, of Garden City, NY, on Friday, November 10. Beloved husband of Janet; loving father of Stacey and Kathryn; devoted son of Margaret Meyers; dear brother of Margaret Perrone and James; friend of many at the former Manufacturers Hanover Trust and Chemical Bank, and at C
 DUNNING-James Dorr. On November 7, 2000, at his home in New York City, after a long illness. He was 89. Mr. Dunning was an executive of New York Life Insurance Company for 45 years. For 25 years he served as a consultant to the Episcopal Church Pension Fund. His extensive lay leadership in 
 ULLENDORFF-Henry ''Uli.'' Died on November 11 in his 91st year in New York City. Survived by his wife Regina, of 50 years, his four children, Jackie, Doris (Ken), David (Alison) and Danielle (Mark) and many grandchildren. Born in 1910 in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, he remade his life after his 
 Herbert Clemens Kraft, an archaeologist whose research threw light on the long reign of the Lenape, New Jersey's earliest inhabitants, died Oct. 31 at his home in Elizabeth, N.J., his birthplace. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan Albers Kraft. Professor Kr
 BLAUNER-Robert Alexander. On November 12, 2000. Robert died in peace at age 23 after a heroic fight with Hodgkin's disease. He is survived by his parents, Allan S. and Loretta; his siblings, Stephen, Peter and Patsy; and his grandmother, Josephine Steinberg Libman. A memorial service for Ro
 BONASORTE-Gary. The board & staff of In the Life television mourn the passing of Gary Bonasorte, partner of our director Terrence McNally & talented friend to our community. He will be missed.       
 BROCKBANK-Robert T. 54, of Garden City, NY, on Friday, November 10. Beloved husband of Janet; loving father of Stacey and Kathryn; devoted son of Margaret Meyers; dear brother of Margaret Perrone and James; friend of many at the former Manufacturers Hanover Trust and Chemical Bank, and at C
 JEFFER-Alvin M. Of Jericho, NY and Boca Raton, FL, at home, lovingly surrounded by family on November 12, 2000. He was 75. For 53 years dearly treasured husband of Irma, loving and devoted to his children Rhonda and Eric Moore, Debra and Sanford Gips and the late Kenneth Robert Jeffer. Ador
 LINZ-Andrew Melchior. 76, on November 12, 2000 after a long illness. Son of the late Rudolph and Ida Linz, beloved husband of Brigitte Loewy Linz, devoted father of Peter Erwin Linz and Andrea Linz Wyckoff. Dear father-in-law of Ann Secord Linz and Scott Allen Wyckoff. Proud and adoring gra
 LYON-Daniel. The officers, staff and leadership of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the death of Daniel Lyon, father of our Executive Director, Avram Lyon. A loving father and grandfather, devoted husband to his wife, Tessie, who passed away two years ago. He will be deeply
 NADLER-Joseph B. Devoted husband for fifty years to the late Harriet. Loving father of Maxine Karas, Lesly Freed Laliberte and L. Gerod Nadler. Beloved fatherin-law of Phil, Jodi and Don. Cherished grandfather of Rick, Nicolle, Gabriel, Andrew, Brittany and Hayden. Dear brother-in-law of Sy
 ROSS-Sheldon, 75. On November 12, 2000. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Robert and Laurie. Dear brother-in-law of Jeff (Mimi) Licht, Vera Rabino and uncle of Erica Licht and Michele Kogon. Resident of Manhattan, formerly of Detroit, he taught those around him to love the arts. 
 ROYCE-Arthur M. On November 9, 2000 at age 85. Devoted husband to Florence. Loving father to Robert. Uncle to Susan and Allen. Dear friend to many. We will always remember him with love.       
 RUBIN-Israel. On Sunday, Nov. 12, 2000, Israel Rubin of Potomac, MD & Tucson, AZ. Beloved husband of the late Janet Rubin and the late Eileen Gordon Rubin. Devoted father of Ronnie (Nancy) Rubin, David Rubin (Linda Louisi) and Shirah Rubin. Loving brother of Blanche Shapiro and Ruth Brooks.
 SIEGEL-Solomon Israel. November 11, 2000, age 86, of Hartsdale, NY. Survived by wife Sylvia. Loving father of Michael R. Siegel, Esq., Daniel C. Siegel and Joanne R. Aldeborgh and loving grandfather of Mark W. Siegel, Julia B. Siegel, H. Nikki Aldeborgh, Winsor R. Aldeborgh and David J. Sie
 SYMONDS-Martin., M.D. The members of the Karen Horney Center note with deep sorrow the passing of Martin Symonds, M.D., esteemed psychoanalyst, supervisor, teacher, faculty member and founder of the Karen Horney Clinic Victim Treatment Center. His spirit, contributions and depth will be sor
 TRACY-Paul W. Suddenly on November 12, 2000. Son of Marylin Noble Tracy and the late William T. Tracy. Brother of Marianne T. Vandervoorn. Uncle of Nicholas, Rebecca and Christopher. A graduate of Georgetown University and Fordham Law School, he was a member of the New York and New Jersey B
 WALTER-Henry G. The Board, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/ WNET New York express their sorrow at the passing of Henry G. Walter, Jr., husband of longtime Board member and dear friend, Rosalind P. Walter. Together Hank and Roz have made an enormous impact on this City through their support
 WEISS-Hyman. Beloved husband of Annie, adored father of Brian, Beverly and Sheri, devoted fatherin-law of Kenneth Eldi and Ada Weiss, cherished grandfather of Howard and Holly. He will be missed.       
 ZARR-Gregory. On November 12th, 2000. Beloved husband of Roberta. Devoted son of Marie and the late George S. Zarr, Sr. Dear brother of George, Gary, Gale, Glenn and Giulia. Special brother-in-law of Gail, Denise, Kamal, Laurie and Bill. He devoted all of his life to his family, friends and
 Walter Patrick McConaughy, a specialist on the Far East for the State Department whose high-profile postings included ambassadorships in Burma, Pakistan and Taiwan, died on Friday at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 92 and had moved to Atlanta after retiring in 1974 as ambassador to the Nation
 BLAUNER-Robert Alexander. On November 12, 2000. Robert died in peace at age 23 after a heroic fight with Hodgkin's disease. He is survived by his parents, Allan S. and Loretta; his siblings, Stephen, Peter and Patsy; and his grandmother, Josephine Steinberg Libman. A memorial service for Ro
 CHILL-Emanuel S., Professor Emeritus of History, City College, NY, died on November 13 in West Hartford, CT of complications from Parkinson's Disease. He was 76. After graduating from Columbia University, he attended Oxford University and joined the history faculty of City College in 1962. 
 GRAY-Herbert K. Age 72, of Stuart, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY and Old Greenwich, CT, on November 12. Retired as a Vice President after a 42 year career with Pfizer, Inc. Served his country in the Army during the Korean War. Former member of the Union League Club and the Riverside Yacht Cl
 GROSSMAN-Louis. Of Remsenberg, N.Y. and Boca Raton, Fl. On November 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Marian. Loving father of Steven and Robert, father-in-law of Lynne and Carole. Cherished grandfather of Alison, Ethan, Cary and Leslie. Great grandfather of Daniela. Chairman of the Board of Sou
 HALPER-Oscar. Beloved husband of Beatrice for 45 years, adored father of Harlan, cherished grandfather of Rachel & Jennifer, and revered brother of Aaron, passed away on November 13 in Yonkers, NY at the age of 88. A graduate of NYU and the Columbia School of Social Work, where he received 
 LARMAN-Jack H. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Jack H. Larman, & extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 LINZ-Andrew M., DDS. The officers and board of directors of the New York County Dental Society are saddened by the passing of Andrew Linz. His contributions to the profession were numerous and he served the Society as president in 1974 with distinction. His counsel will be missed. Mark A. M
 MATSON-George Donald. Of New Vernon, New Jersey, on Monday, November 13, 2000. Former Chief Financial Officer of the National Westminster Bank U.S.A. who was previously the C.F.O. of the National Broadcasting Company and began his career with the Arthur Anderson Co. Served in the Navy in Wo
 MORTARA-Michael P., Goldman Sachs Executive. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Wednesday, November 15th, at 11:00am at St. Anthony of Padua Church in Litchfield. Burial will be in St. Anthony Cemetery. There are no calling hours. The Rowe Funeral Home, 283 Torrington Rd., Lit
 PHILLIPS-Joseph S. Passed away on Sunday, November 12, 2000. He was 73. He was a retired stockbroker, music and photography enthusiast. He is survived by his son, Roger, daughter-in-law, Wendy, and grandson, Samuel. We will miss him terribly.       
 ROSS-Sheldon, 75. On November 12, 2000. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Robert and Laurie. Dear brother-in-law of Jeff (Mimi) Licht, Vera Rabino and uncle of Erica Licht and Michele Kogon. Resident of Manhattan, formerly of Detroit, he taught those around him to love the arts. 
 TELLER-Samuel. On November 13, 2000. Age 87. Of Deerfield Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Nettie Teller. Loving father of Claudette Blumenson, Martin Teller and Howard Teller. Fatherin-law of Robert Blumenson and Ester Teller. Grandfather of Andrea Goldberg, David Blumenson, Lisa Don
 ULLENDORF-Henry. The National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of Henry Ullendorf, who, together with his wife Regina and family has played a crucial role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Condolences to the entire family Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchw
 WALTER-Henry G., Jr. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of esteemed Honorary Trustee, Henry G. Walter, Jr. Hank joined the Board of Trustees in 1972, serving as Vice President of the Board from 1981-1988. An active Trustee with 
 Robert Trout, a pioneering broadcast journalist who was admired for the ease with which he ad libbed his way through some of the century's most important breaking news reports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 91 and had homes in  Manhattan and Madrid. Mr. Trout, whose career spa
 The Rev. Eugene A. Marino, the first black Roman Catholic archbishop in the United States, whose resignation as archbishop of Atlanta in 1990 was linked to his affair with a woman, died on Nov. 12 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was apparently a heart attack, church spokesme
 Herbert Brun, a composer who helped introduce the use of electronics and computers in creating music, died on Nov. 6 in Urbana, Ill. He was 82 and lived in Urbana. Mr. Brun was a professor emeritus of music composition at the University of Illinois School of Music. He formally retir
 Michael P. Mortara, a partner at Goldman Sachs who was instrumental in the founding of the market for mortgage-backed securities, died on Sunday at his home in Litchfield, Conn. He was 51. The cause was a brain aneurysm, according to Steven Mnuchin, a family friend and a partner at 
 BLAUNER-Robert Alexander. On November 12, 2000. Robert died in peace at age 23 after a heroic fight with Hodgkin's disease. He is survived by his parents, Allan S. and Loretta; his siblings, Stephen, Peter and Patsy; and his grandmother, Josephine Steinberg Libman. A memorial service for Ro
 FLEMING-Frederic G. of Port Washington, NY, died November 13th. Born in Belgium, he served with the US Army during World War II. He retired from Air Products in 1970. He is survived by his loving wife, Mathe, daughters, Lynne Goss, Georgia Bill, and Barbara Fleming, and six grandchildren. I
 GREENE-Morton. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, and friend. Died at home. Services Thursday 2:15 P.M. at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York. GREENE-Morton. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the
 GROSSMAN-Louis. Of Remsenberg, N.Y. and Boca Raton, Fl. On November 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Marian. Loving father of Steven and Robert, father-in-law of Lynne and Carole. Cherished grandfather of Alison, Ethan, Cary and Leslie. Great grandfather of Daniela. Chairman of the Board of Sou
 KOFFLER-William, on November 15, 2000 at age 65, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father to Dawn and Dina. Loving grandfather of Gregory, Holly, Emma, Joseph and Benjamin. Dear brother of Nicholas. He leaves behind many friends and relatives who will dearly miss his
 LINZ-Andrew Melchior. 76, on November 12, 2000 after a long illness. Son of the late Rudolph and Ida Linz, beloved husband of Brigitte Loewy Linz, devoted father of Peter Erwin Linz and Andrea Linz Wyckoff. Dear father-in-law of Ann Secord Linz and Scott Allen Wyckoff. Proud and adoring gra
 LIPKIN-Robert H., on November 14, 2000, when Robert lost his courageous battle with cancer. Robert is survived by his wife Ellen, his daughter Beth, and his brothers Warren and Perry and their families. Prior to his illness, Robert was involved in corporate business finance and consulting i
 MIRANDA-Anthony. New York City Opera mourns the passing of Tony Miranda, a member of our orchestra for 17 years and Principal Horn player for 12. He was a valued member of our orchestra, a good friend, and we will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Sharon Moe, his child
 MORTARA-Michael. It was an honor and a joy to have been a friend of Mike Mortara. He was an extraordinary man. He deeply loved his family. He cared about others. He was a brilliant professional. His word was his bond. My family and I send our love and sympathy to Jenna, Michael and Matthew.
 SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. It is with deep sorrow that the officers and trustees of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the sudden passing of our beloved and esteemed President, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. One of the most influential figures of American Jewry, he served as 
 UNGAR-Philip. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice. Devoted father of David. Esteemed member of East Midwood Jewish Center. Graveside services today 2PM at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont NY. UNGAR-Philip. It is with deep sorrow that we record the death of Philip Ungar, the husband of h
 WALTER-Henry G., Jr. The Columbia University community mourns the loss of alumnus, friend, and benefactor Henry Walter. Hank, as he was affectionately known to Columbians, was a tireless supporter of Columbia's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. His recognition of the importance of climate r
 Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, who led the Reform movement of American Judaism through 23 years of growth in which it opened its congregations to unaffiliated Jews, non-Jews and those born of intermarriage, and made room in its pulpits for women and gays, died early yesterday at his home in 
 William G. Harrington, a mystery novelist with a long career as a collaborator with celebrity authors, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68. The police said he apparently committed suicide. Mr. Harrington, whose writing career spanned 37 years and include
 Hosea Williams, a field general for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in civil rights clashes of the 1960's, and more recently an Atlanta politician with a talent for confounding friends and enemies alike, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 74 and had been suffering from cancer. Ra
 John Bury, the innovative production designer whose bold, stylized sets provided a dramatic alternative to the box sets and realistically painted scenes of traditional British theater, died on Sunday in Gloucestershire, England. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia brought on by heart
 BLUM-Morris. Died peacefully at home November 15, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Gladys B. Blum. Loving father of Nancy & Murphy Levin, Bob and Michael Blum. Devoted and cherished grandpa to Kelly, Duncan and Timothy Levin; Amanda, Jamie and Alex Blum. Cherished brother to Jackie, Mimi a
 DARSKY-Richard H. of Larchmont, NY died on the morning of Thursday, November 16 of complications of acute endocarditis. He had been ill for one month. Mr. Darsky, age 59, is survived by his wife of 29 years, Judith Hyman Darsky; children, Joel, Jonathan, and Ilana. Mr. Darsky was the son of
 ERENBAUM-Merwin. The Israel Education Fund of United Jewish Communites mourns the death of Merwin Erenbaum, a trustee of the Posnack Family Foundation and a friend of Israel, who helped build numerous projects in Israel for the benefit of children and the elderly. We send our condolences to
 GREENBERG-Robert. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the passing of Robert Greenberg, President of our Insight Laser Centers and former Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Vision, Inc. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Kim, and the entire Greenberg family. Sterling Optical Dr
 HEVESI-Joseph. Age 89. Died peacefully at his home in Harrison, New York on November 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Eleanor for over 60 years. In his early years he was a reporter for the New York Herald Tribune and had also been employed by Benton & Bowles, NBC & CBS TV, where he was Directo
 MENDAL-Jack. On November 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Claire, loving father of Mark, Florette, Steven and David, cherished by all his grandchildren, adored by sonin-law Saul and daughters-in-law Vivian, Vicky and Debbie. Service Friday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. I
 OCKO-Stephen Jay of Wayland, Mass. Inventor and innovator, beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend passed away peacefully surrounded by love on November 13, 2000. Born May 30th, 1934 in New York City, the son of Beatrice and Harry Ocko, he attended Brooklyn Polytechnic Prep School a
 SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities are deeply saddened by the passing of Rabbi Alexander Schindler, a progressive Jewish leader of great intellect and compassion. For more than two decades, Rabbi Schindler served with distinct
 SMITH-Philip Cleary, 78, retired Chairman and CEO of the former National Securities and Research Corporation, a New York mutual fund company, died yesterday in Rye, New York from complications following a stroke. A native of Brooklyn, New York, Mr. Smith graduated from Brooklyn Prep, and th
 TEITELBAUM-Elaine. We extend condolences to our devoted member Dr. Israel Teitelbaum on the loss of his wife Elaine. May he and his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Scarsdale Jacob S. Rubenstein, Rabbi Harold B. Aspis, Co-President William H. Sch
 WATERMAN-Neil S. Jr. On November 8 in Dallas. Founder of SimuFlite, an aviation training company based in Dallas and The Waterman Group, Inc., a venture capital business. Mr. Waterman (Mike) expanded his investment interests to South America and divided his time between Buenos Aires, a home
 WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved 
 YUTER-Ben. The entire New York Community Hospital Family, Trustees, Physicians, Employees and Volunteers mourn the loss of Ben Yuter. Mr. Yuter was a member of the Board of Trustees for 16 years. He contributed greatly to the Board and his assistance to administration for the successful, tu
 Albert Joseph Guerard, an author and critical essayist who taught modern literature to fledgling luminaries like Alice Hoffman and John Updike, died on Nov. 9 at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Guerard was a professor emeritus of litera
 Joseph Taubman, a New York tax expert for the entertainment industry and a lawyer for many star performers, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and had his home and office in Midtown. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Taubman's career 
 AINSBERG-David M. Died peacefully in his 96th year on November 17th. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Mourned by his sister Jeannette Ikka, brothers Louis and Bernard, stepson Mel Mandell, sister-in-law Zelda, grandson, greatgrandchildren, nephews, and niece, and many friends. Services a
 BECKOFF-Samuel, former chairman of the English Department at Music & Art High School, died Friday at the age of eighty-five. Dr. Beckoff taught at City College and Yeshiva University. He was the author of several textbooks, two novels and a family memoir. He had taught and chaired the Engli
 DEMPSEY-Arthur J. of St. Simons Island, age 69, died November 16, 2000. He is survived by his wife of thirty-nine years, Joan-Marie Dempsey of St. Simons; daughter, Ellen M. Dempsey of St. Simons; son, Brian J. Dempsey of Vashon, Washington; one grandson, Forest Dempsey of Vashon. Mr. Demps
 FLASH-Arthur G. 86, of Hartsdale, New York. Died November 16. Beloved longtime companion of Mary W. Kaufman. Husband of the late Hope K. (Billie) Flash. Brother of the late Malcolm Flash. He is survived by nephews, Michael and Douglas Flash. Arthur graduated from Princeton University and se
 HALPER-Oscar. Temple Israel mourns the loss of a cherished trustee and friend. Our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. Oskar Brecher, President Judith S. Lewis, Rabbi       
 IRVING-Malcolm. Died at his home in Wilton, Conn. at age 84 on November 14. Survived by his wife Roberta & sons Alan and Anthony and grandchildren, Preston and Elizabeth. In World War II served as 1st Lieutenant in British Navy. He worked in New York and CT.       
 KERR-Kenneth W., Jr. Of Newburgh, NY. A New York City Firefighter, entered into rest on Wednesday, November 15, 2000, at Jacobi Hospital, Bronx, NY. He was 44. He was born in the Bronx January 19, 1956 the son of Kenneth Sr. and Patricia Banks Kerr. He served in the U.S. Air Force 1973-1977
 MASCIOLI-Joseph. On November 17, 2000 of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Rose. Loving father of his late sons Charles and Frank. Grandfather of Margaret, Diane, Charles, Joseph, William, Elizabeth, Paul and the late Stephen. He is also survived by 18 great grandchildren. In repose at the Fair
 METZGER-Fanchon K. Beloved wife of the late Alwyn, devoted mother of Dr. Steven A. Metzger and his wife Karen L. Metzger, cherished grandmother of Marcie, Debbie and Leslie and spouses Simon Nadler and Adam Falik, adored great-grandmother of Allison and Emily Nadler. Services Sunday 1 PM, a
 MEYERS-Norbert B. On November 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Lisa, devoted brother of Edwin. Loving father of Connie, Eileen, & Andrew, father-in-law of Harris and Janet. Cherished grandfather of Claude, Alexa, Tamara, Ruth, Alex & Paulene. Astute businessman and traveler extraordinaire. Norb
 MILDE-Rose Eileen (nee McGroarty). On Thursday, November 16, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Michael and his wife Maureen of Succasunna, NJ; Jim and his wife Marybeth of Succasunna, NJ; Joseph and his wife Susan of Mendham, NJ and Mary Homa and her husband Michael of Baltimor
 MOLONEY-John J., CPA. On November 16, 2000, at his home in his 79th year. Retired CFO and Sr. Vice President of The Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center and formerly of Roosevelt Hospital. Beloved son of the late Edward and Mary Ellen Sheehan Moloney. Dearest husband of Helen (nee Kane). Cherished
 SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The Officers, Board and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed Board member Rabbi Alexander Schindler, one of the most influential leaders in American Judaism. He served as President of the Unio
 SINGER-Dennis. The Board of Trustees of the Have A Heart Foundation extends their sympathies to the family of our past president and loyal board member. He exemplified our credo ''that provision for others is a fundamental responsibility of human life''. SINGER-Dennis. In another in
 WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved 
 YUTER-Benjamin. Age 83. A World War II veteran, he and his beloved wife of 57 years, Claire, were the first Jewish GI couple united in marriage while serving in uniform. Loving father of Arthur, Mona, Edward. Devoted grandfather of Kate, Tess, Remi. Father-in-law of Roni, Kurt Brokaw, Mary.
 Stephen Borsody, a former Hungarian diplomat and scholar who wrote extensively on European history, died Friday in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 89. Dr. Borsody earned a doctorate in law at Charles University in Prague, and came to Washington in 1946 as counselor and press attache at the 
 William S. Woodside, a prominent business and civic leader who used his positions as a platform to promote social change in the New York area and nationwide, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 and also had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Litchfield, Conn. The caus
 Curt Siodmak, the novelist, screenwriter and film director who wrote the 1941 film ''The Wolf Man,'' which gave new form to the ancient myth of a man turning into a wolf, adding riveting details like silver bullets, died Sept. 2 at his ranch in Three Rivers, Calif. He was 98. His ob
 AINSBERG-David M. Died peacefully in his 96th year on November 17th. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Mourned by his sister Jeannette Ikka, brothers Louis and Bernard, stepson Mel Mandell, sister-in-law Zelda, grandson, greatgrandchildren, nephews, and niece, and many friends. Services a
 CARES-Sarah. On Tuesday, Nov. 14, 2000. Beloved mother of Carol V. Berman and mother-in-law of Harvey B. Berman. Also survived by three grandchildren, Adam C. Berman and his wife Allison Goldberg, Robin F. Berman and Lisa B. Olswing, & a great-granddaughter, Emma Sophie Olswing. Memorial se
 DAIN-Frank McLellan. A retired radiologist and resident of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, died November 11, 2000 at his home. He was 79. Dr. Dain was born December 27, 1920 in Jamaica, N.Y., the son of Marguerite Nason Dain and Frank McLellan Dain, II. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1
 EDELGLASS-Stephen Mark. Died November 17, age 64. Born Brooklyn, NY. Teacher, author, scientist. Survived by beloved wife Hanna, and children from first marriage William and Alexandra. Funeral services: Threefold Auditorium, Hungry Hollow Rd., Spring Valley, NY, 1 PM, November 21. Memorial 
 HATCH-William B. Of Washington, DC, Vancouver, BC and Portland, OR. Died November 15, 2000 after a four month struggle with lung disease. Bill spent many years at the Republican Policy Committee of the Senate in the days of Senators Dirkson and Hickenlooper, but his most important work was 
 KINGSLEY-Herman. In his 90th year, beloved and caring husband of Betty and the late Marion; loved father of Alfred (Temma), Stephen (Judith), and Robert (Robin); adored grandfather of Mark (Bongreat-grandfather of Jack; wonderful friend, beloved brother and uncle. Herman was a sweet, devote
 MARSHALL-Richard M. Died on November 10, 2000 in Greenwich, CT, at the age of 75. He was a decorated Ranger in the 86th Infantry Division of the Blackhawks in World War II. A Harvard Law School graduate, class of '50, a partner in the New York law firm of Marshall & Tucker, and a partner in
 MASCIOLI-Joseph. On November 17, 2000 of Manhasset. Beloved husband of Rose. Loving father of his late sons Charles and Frank. Grandfather of Margaret, Diane, Charles, Joseph, William, Elizabeth, Paul and the late Stephen. He is also survived by 18 great grandchildren. In repose at the Fair
 MEYER-Henry J., Professor Emeritus Social Work and Sociology (1957-1978), University of Michigan, died October 29. Scholar of sociological and social work theory, labor disputes, mental health and family service program evaluation, community organization, and population policy. Founded Univ
 MEYERS-Norbert B. On November 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Lisa, devoted brother of Edwin. Loving father of Connie, Eileen, and Andrew, father-in-law of Harris and Janet. Cherished grandfather of Claude, Alexa, Tamara, Ruth, Alex & Paulene. Astute businessman and traveler extraordinaire. No
 MOLONEY-John J., CPA. On November 16, 2000, at his home in his 79th year. Retired CFO and Sr. Vice President of The Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center and formerly of Roosevelt Hospital. Beloved son of the late Edward and Mary Ellen Sheehan Moloney. Dearest husband of Helen (nee Kane). Cherished
 PAHMER-Jack. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its beloved member, Shelli Pahmer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 PRISANT-Millard. The Officers and Trustees of the Roslyn Preservation Corp. and the Roslyn Landmark Society mourn the loss of their dear friend and dedicated officer. For over two decades, Millard enthusiastically participated in the preservation projects of the unique village of Roslyn, be
 REHM-Donald H., LTC, USA (Ret.), 79, on November 13, 2000, former resident of Northern Virginia and recently of Northport, NY and Melbourne, FL. A 1945 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, he was a decorated military veteran of the Korean War, duty served at the Pentagon and with the 82nd
 RESNICK - Herman A., M.D. (Spike). of Monteray, CA and Seagate, Brooklyn, NY. Devoted husband of the late Muriel. Beloved father of Amy. Dearest brother of Ralph. Loving grandfather, great grandfather and uncle. Not only will he be remembered by his loving family, but by his many, many pati
 SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. NATE, the National Association of Temple Educators deeply mourns the death of our member and friend, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. He was a staunch advocate of the importance of education and learning in Jewish life, and he worked to serve the Reform movement an
 SINGER-Dennis. The Board of Trustees of the Have A Heart Foundation extends their sympathies to the family of our past president and loyal board member. He exemplified our credo ''that provision for others is a fundamental responsibility of human life''. SINGER-Dennis. In another in
 SMITH-James J., M.D. 88. Former director of the Nuclear Medicine Service for the Veterans Administration, pioneer in the fields of Endocrinology and nuclear medicine, and devoted husband of the late Beatrix Goldzieher Smith, M.D., died on September 9 in Washington, D.C. He was the first per
 STERN-H. Anthony. A long time resident of Briarcliff, NY, an original staff member at the U.N., Personnel Director for Church World Service, and Associate Dean at Pace University. He died on Nov. 1 at his home in Santa Monica, CA. A Memorial Service will be held at St. Matthew's Episcopal C
 WEINSTEIN-George. Loving husband and best friend of Shirley (Greenberg), of 55 years. Father of Stanley, Lenore, Jerrald, Judy, Sarah. Grandfather of Rachael, Moshe, Ronnie and Yinon Libson, Ari, Jay, Dov and Bonnie. Brother of Ira, Janice and Lewis Sachs. Loved by many nieces and nephews. 
 WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved 
 YUTER-Benjamin. We mourn the loss of our dear and devoted friend, Ben. He was an outstanding member of our community and a true son of the Jewish people. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved and lifetime partner Claire, their children and grandchildren. Shalom, dear friend. Rose
 KLEBAN-Francis. In loving memory of our beloved brother, devoted grandfather and cherished great grandfather. He is fondly remembered as we walk through New York and gaze up at the skyline that he helped to create.       
 Cal Turner Sr., who began a retailing empire based on the philosophy that no item should cost more than a dollar, died at his home in Scottsville, Ky., on Tuesday. He was 85. In 1955, the idea came to Mr. Turner that the success of major department stores' ''Dollar Day'' sales, when
 Gordon Rich, an investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston who constructed some of the largest mergers in corporate history and was known on Wall Street for his irreverent personality, died yesterday. He was 43. The cause was injuries Mr. Rich suffered in a car accident early y
 Gordon W. Gilkey, an artist, teacher, collector and for 22 years the curator of prints and drawings at the Portland Art Museum in Oregon, died Oct. 28. He was 88. Mr. Gilkey was born in Scio, Ore., in 1912 and became the first graduate to earn a fine arts degree in printmaking at th
 James Russell Wiggins, a longtime editor of The Washington Post who served as United States Ambassador to the United Nations and spent his last 30 years running a weekly newspaper in Maine, died yesterday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 96. During his 22 years as managing editor
 Dr. John Hamilton Reynolds, a physicist who helped refine the techniques for dating meteorites and primordial rock formations, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said the University of California, where he had been a faculty
 Dr. Leon J. Epstein, a pioneer in the treatment of mental illness in the elderly, died Nov. 6 at his home in San Francisco. He was 83. The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said. As a professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco, b
 AKE-Kenneth Whittier Jr. Age 66. Born in Hartford, CT, died November 17, 2000, of a massive stroke. A son of the late Kenneth and Corinne Ake. Loved husband of Alice Bradley Ake. Beloved father of Allison Ake Fulton and Alexander Ake and wife Mary. Brother of Nancy Ake Cecil. Happy grandfat
 AMICK-Patrick J. Age 55, of Upper Makefield Township, PA. Died on November 17, 2000. Retired from Citi Corp. Survived by his wife Wynne, a son and daughterin-law, William and Cheryl, and granddaughter Madelyn. Contact Fitzgerald - Sommer Funeral Home, Yardley, PA.       
 ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. We are saddened by the loss, but exhilarated by the life. As Senior Warden, Sinc led St. Mark's Church inthe-Bowery through a tumult of community and cultural change. As our first president, he championed the rebuilding of the fire devastated landmark church by a cadr
 FORMICHELLA-Mario J. 81 years old. Entered into eternal rest on Friday, November 17. Mario was a CPA and worked his entire career for the firm Ernst & Young (formerly Arthur Young & Co.). In 1946 Mario started as a staff auditor with the firm's NYC office. He advanced quickly to higher posi
 MULLANY-Kevin C., Sr. 79, on Thursday, November 16, 2000, at his residence in Great Falls, VA. Beloved husband of Margaret T. Mullany. Loving father of Kevin Jr., John, Thomas, Robert, Maribeth Mullany. Grandfather of Connor, Michelle and Jessica. The family will receive friends from 5-8 PM
 PAM-Simon. 90, of Deerfield Beach, FL. Husband of the late Berta Pam; father of Alvin, Eleanor (Juceam), Jeffrey, and Robert and their spouses, 13 grandchildren, two great-grandchildren. Survived also by brothers Rabbi Abraham Pam and Charles Pam. A disciplined intellectual man of quality, 
 RUDIAKOV-Michael. The Board of Directors and Advisory Council of the Manchester Music Festival mourn the passing of our dear director. His passion for the music, dedication to the education of audiences of all ages and enthusiasm for the growth of young artists will be sorely missed. We ext
 STRUTHERS-Harvey J. In Brunswick, ME. November 13, 2000, age 83, born in Minneapolis, MN, died from Parkinson's Disease. Formerly of Darien, CT, and Naples, FL, an executive of 40 years with CBS. He is survived by his wife, Helen Gould Struthers of Brunswick, sons Harvey J. Struthers, Jr., 
 TROUT-Robert. On November 14, 2000. Distinguished journalist in both radio and television. One of the first correspondents to cover London for CBS during World War II and later for ABC radio and television. Husband and colleague of the late Catherine ''Kit'' Trout and brother-in-law of Eliz
 WEINSTEIN-George. Loving husband and best friend of Shirley (Greenberg), of 55 years. Father of Stanley, Lenore, Jerrald, Judy, Sarah. Grandfather of Rachael, Moshe, Ronnie and Yinon Libson, Ari, Jay, Dov and Bonnie. Brother of Ira, Janice and Lewis Sachs. Loved by many nieces and nephews. 
 WILLIG-Sidney H. Professor Sidney H. Willig, noted jurist and community leader, died November 17, 2000. A pioneer in the field of food and drug law, he was a professor of law at Temple University in Philadelphia for over 30 years and a Chair was established in his honor upon his retirement.
 WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved 
 Charles F. C. Ruff, a former White House counsel to President Clinton who was known as one of Washington's most influential if least self-important lawyers and who played an important role in events from Watergate to Mr. Clinton's impeachment, died on Sunday at 61. Friends and gover
 J. Russell Wiggins, the editor who was widely credited with transforming The Washington Post from a small and struggling enterprise into a nationally respected newspaper after World War II and who then became the United States ambassador to the United Nations in the waning months of the Joh
 CABELL-William D., 92. On Nov. 14 at home, Rock Castle, VA. He is survived by his wife Ellen Rolston Cabell, children Kathleen Cabell Hildreth and William D. Cabell Jr. and their families. He graduated from the University of Virginia College and Law School and practiced law in NYC from 1932
 CARES-Sarah. On Tuesday, Nov. 14, 2000. Beloved mother of Carol V. Berman and mother-in-law of Harvey B. Berman. Also survived by three grandchildren, Adam C. Berman and his wife Allison Goldberg, Robin F. Berman and Lisa B. Olswing, & a great-granddaughter, Emma Sophie Olswing. Memorial se
 COVERDALE-Miles. Age 77. Born in New York City, died November 19, 2000 at his home in Brookville, L.I. Son of the late William H. and Harriet H. Coverdale, beloved husband of Enid S. Coverdale, beloved brother of Mary C. Winnett and Harriet C. Marsh. Also survived by his children from his f
 deJONG-The Reverend Doctor Pieter. 77, formerly of Madison, NJ, NYC, and Canada. Died on November 18, 2000 at Fellowship Village Retirement Community, Basking Ridge, NJ. Born in Gouda, The Netherlands. He is survived by his wife Anne, daughter Alida, sons Pieter, Paul and Tim; four grandchi
 FEUER-Phillip H. On November 19, 2000. Beloved husband and soulmate of Sarene P. Shanus. Cherished and loving father of Rose R.S. Feuer and Abigail E.S. Feuer. Dear brother of Marvin Feuer and Susan Feuerwerger and brother-in-law of Debra Feuer, Peter Young and Corey and Amy Shanus. Adored 
 GAWRON-Michael A. Age 57, of Brooklyn. Died on October 12. Burial was in Chicopee, MA. He was an Associate at William B. Tabler Architect and was most recently Project Architect on Brooklyn Renaissance Plaza which includes the Marriott Hotel and Office Tower. A memorial celebration will be 
 GREENE-Leonard. Temple Beth Torah, Westbury, New York mourns the loss of our beloved member. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Fran, children Charles, Ruth and Steven and to his mother, sister and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusale
 HITCHCOCK-Ethan Allen. The Board, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET New York express their sorrow at the passing of our former Chairman of the Board, Ethan Allen Hitchcock. Serving on the board since 1967 and serving as Chairman from 1968-1980, Ethan Allen Hitchcock presided over the st
 KERNER-Nathan. The Merrick Jewish Centre Congregation Ohr Torah mourns the passing of our beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Jean Kerner and the entire family. We pray the family will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Barry M. Lasky, President Rabbi 
 KINGSLEY-Herman. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Herman Kingsley, whose family has embraced his legacy of righteous deeds and Jewish community leadership. His son, Alfred, a former member of our board of directors, serves in a leadership capacity on
 KLEIN-Michael L. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Chairs of the Board of Governors and Boards of Overseers, administration, faculty, staff and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Michael L. Klein, Dean of the Jerusale
 MARSHALL-Geoffrey. The faculty, staff and students of The Graduate Center of The City University of New York are profoundly saddened by the loss of Geoffrey Marshall, our former Provost and Senior Vice President. For his 13 years at The Graduate Center, first as Associate Provost and then a
 MULLIN-Stanley H. Age 84, on November 2, 2000. The Pace University community records with sorrow the passing of Stanley H. Mullin, former professor and chair of the Marketing Department. Dr. Mullin worked at Pace for 35 years until his retirement in 1984. He served in a variety of administr
 RICH-Gordon. With great sorrow, we learned of the passing of our new friend, colleague and group co-head. Obvious to us even in the short time we knew him was that his role as a manager and mentor was invaluable; he easily won the admiration of clients and colleagues alike; his enthusiasm w
 SINGER-Dennis. The Galin families and the associates of G+G Retail, Inc. mourn the passing of our dear friend and supplier Dennis Singer of Dennis Industries/A Time For Us. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family. Sharon, Jonathan and Robin.       
 STRUHL-Bernard, D.D.S. On November 18, 2000. Devoted father of Pamela, Meridith, and Samuel. Father-in-law of Larry. Grandpa of Jayson and Jonathan. He served his last ace!       
 TOWBIN-Jess N. On November 20, 2000. Beloved husband of Doris E. Towbin. Father & father-in-law of Lisa & Leonard Olim, Barry, & Laura Towbin, brother, A. Robert Towbin. Also surviving are his grandchildren, Michael & Zachary Olim. Funeral Services will be held on Wednesday at 12 Noon in th
 WEINSTEIN-George. Lake Park Synagogue, Milwaukee, WI notes with deep sorrow the passing of our founding Chairman. There are many accomplishments in life which measure our success. Few however, have as much far reaching significance and lasting impact as the foundation of a Synagogue. George
 WOODSIDE-William S. A generous and compassionate man of great vision, William S. Woodside is mourned by the Children of Alcoholics Foundation. He was an extraordinary business leader and thoughtful philanthropist, whose deep devotion to children and passion for our cause he shared with his 
 Ethan Allen Hitchcock, a Manhattan lawyer and civic leader who was a former chairman of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation, died on Saturday at his home in Oldwick, N.J. He was 91. From 1961 to 1983, Mr. Hitchcock was a partner in the law firm that became Webster & Sheffield. 
 John Paul Manship, an American artist who was the son of the sculptor Paul Manship (1885-1966), died on Friday in Gloucester, Mass. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Named for the painter John Singer Sargent, his father's friend, Mr. Manship was born in New Y
 Lars-Erik Nelson, a columnist for The New York Daily News who covered and commented on the collapse of Communism and other events that shaped history, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 59. The cause of death was apparently a stroke, his family said. Mr. Nels
 GREGORY-John D. The Rockefeller University mourns the loss of Dr. John D. Gregory, a dear friend and colleague. A beloved member of the University community for over fifty years, he made significant contributions to scientific understanding through his research on the structures and functio
 KRATENSTEIN-Helen. On November 20 at Albany, NY. Wife of the late Meyer Kratenstein. Mother of Rhoda Kratenstein of Schenectady, NY and Selig Kratenstein and his wife Robin of North Woodmere, NY. Sister of William Bellinger of Roswell, GA. Grandmother of Matthew and Andrew. Services 1:00 PM
 LEIMAN-Harry. To our dear friend Harry, he knew the true meaning of humility. Marlyn and Martin Persky       
 LYONS-Edward J., Rev., CSP. On November 20, 2000 at age 73. Born in New York, NY, he was ordained a Paulist priest on May 1, 1953. Fr. Lyons first served in Lubbock, TX, then as hospital Chaplain in the Back Bay section of Boston, MA. He received numerous converts into the Catholic Church w
 MATEK-Stanley. The New York State Podiatric Medical Association mourns the passing of Stan Matek on November 19 in Chicago. Mr. Matek served as the Executive Director of the Association from 1983-1993. He left his mark by working with determination on behalf of our Association and our profe
 RICH-Gordon Alexander. We mourn with our cherished friends of more than 45 years, Evie and Marv, his beautiful Swarthmore sweetheart, wife MaryAnn, and his beloved buddies, sons Max and Alex. From his first day of life, he was extraordinary. Cousin Gordie to Lois and Lila, always in our hea
 WEINSTEIN-George. The American Friends of Soroka Medical Center of the Negev are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed supporter. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Shirley and his children Sarah, Stanley and Jerrald and the entire family. Benjamin Belfer, Chairman
 ZIMBERG-Stuart. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member Friar Stuart Zimberg on November 19th. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Thursday, November 23, at 10AM, Boulevard Riverside,
 BADER-Nathan. ''Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun.'' Happy Birthday, Daddy. I miss you. Love Ann BADER-Nathan. Dear Grandpa, remembering you on your
 David B. Hermelin, ambassador to Norway until last January, a real estate developer, a philanthropist who gave to Jewish and other causes, and a contributor to the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Detroit. He was 63 and lived in Bingham Farms, Mich. He died of brain cancer, his s
 Emil Zatopek, perhaps the greatest distance runner ever and surely the most ungainly, died yesterday in Prague. He was 78 years old. Zatopek died in Prague's military hospital, where he was being treated after a stroke in late October, the Czech news agency CTK reported. He 
 EISERT-Israel J. on November 21, beloved husband of the late Bess, loving father of Cheryl Dreyfus, husband Richard, and Edward G. Eisert, cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Deborah, Carolyn and Stephen, dear brother of Otto, Yetta, Pearl and Jack. Mr. Eisert was a Manhattan lawyer, civic l
 FEUER-Phillip. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the untimely passing of Phillip Feuer whose life embodied the world of our values and the compassion of our mission. As a member of our Commission on Jewish Identity and Renewal and our Westchester Business and Profes
 HEIT-Albert. Distinguished entertainment attorney, on November 21, 2000. A 1934 graduate of Cornell Law School and an avid alumni supporter, Mr. Heit handled business affairs for film producer Sam Spiegel for 35 years. He is survived by his beloved wife, Natalie, brother, Murray, his niece,
 HERMELIN-David B. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Ambassador David B. Hermelin, a beloved friend and colleague, one of the world's great philanthropic leaders, and a devoted supporter of Israel and the Jewish people. A reno
 KOHLMAN-Clem. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Clem Kohlman, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife Eleanor and family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Brian Strum, Secretary       
 NELSON-Lars-Erik . ''The Wandering Minstrel''. Unique voice. Brilliant journalist. Keen thinker. Warm, witty, caring. We'll miss his song. June Tauber Golden Bronx H.S. of Science, Class of '59       
 NOVACK-Michael, 32, Westport, CT, died Tuesday in Westport. Mr. Novack, an attorney, was Vice President for u-medik, Inc. of Stamford. He is survived by, his wife Michelle Novack, parents, Martin and Linda Novack, brother, Robert Novack, and sister-in-law Nancy Novack, grandmothers, Rosalin
 RHODES-John B., Sr. The Board of Trustees of The New York Institute for Special Education (founded in 1831 at The New York Institute for the Education of the Blind) records with deep regret the death of its beloved and distinguished member. Mr. Rhodes was a dedicated friend of the Institute
 Dr. Louis Neel, one of France's most distinguished physicists and a Nobel laureate for his discoveries about magnetic fields and their uses in everyday life, died last Friday in Brive-Correze, France. He was 95. Dr. Neel (pronounced NAY-ell) was the founder and a former director of 
 Eugene M. Farber, a California dermatologist who did groundbreaking research on psoriasis and allergies, died on Nov. 10 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Portola Valley. The cause was a brain tumor, said the Psoriasis Research Institute, which is affiliated with Stanford 
 John Keats, an author and biographer with a bent for social commentary, died on Nov. 3 in Kingston, Ont. He was 79 and lived in Kingston and on Pine Island in Ontario, in the Thousand Islands region of the St. Lawrence River. Mr. Keats set out in journalism after World War II but tu
 John L. Levitow, the only Air Force enlisted man to be awarded the Medal of Honor during the Vietnam War, died Nov. 8 at his home in Rocky Hill, Conn. He was 55. The cause was cancer, his family said. On the night of Feb. 24, 1969, Airman First Class Levitow was serving as l
 Michael Rudiakov, a cellist and teacher who performed with the Brooklyn Philharmonic and was heard regularly in recitals and chamber concerts, died on Nov. 17 in Yonkers. He was 66 and lived in Manchester, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Ariel. Mr. Rudiakov w
 DUHL-Benjamin. On Nov. 23, 2000, peacefully at age 91. Loving husband of Shirley Katz Duhl and the late Ethel Cohen Duhl. Devoted father of Janet Spector (Dr. Joseph) and Roger Duhl (Diane Wild). Cherished grandfather of Douglas M. Spector (Ossie), Lisa Spector Rothkrug (Adam), Dana Spector
 HERMELIN-David B. The Cantors Assembly expresses sorrow upon the passing of Ambassador David B. Hermelin, statesman, philanthropist, humanitarian and devoted friend of the Cantors Assembly. May his memory be a source of blessing and comfort to this wife Doreen, wonderful family and the bere
 HYMAN-Frances. The partners and staff of Milton N. Hoffman Co. regret the passing of Frances Hyman, beloved mother of our senior partner, David Levy. Our heartfelt condolences to David and his entire family.       
 McQUAID-John G. Attorney, of Ardsley on Hudson on November 21, 2000. He is survived by his wife Betty, children, Elizabeth L. McQuaid, John G. McQuaid and Catherine M. McQuaid, his grandson Matthew Paul McQuaid, daughterin-law Patricia Clay, son-in-law Robert Hirsch and his brother Paul McQ
 Geoffrey Marshall, the former provost of the City University of New York and the former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, died Nov. 18 at his home in Cranbury, N.J. He was 62. The cause was pneumonia associated with Lou Gehrig's disease, CUNY said.       
 Frederick L. Jacobs, the former chief financial officer of the advertising agency Wells, Rich, Greene, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gloria. Mr. Jacobs, a lawyer and certified public accountant, had his own pr
 Jim Wise, who wrote the music for the 1968 Off Broadway hit ''Dames at Sea,'' died on Nov. 13 at his home in New York. He was 81. ''Dames at Sea,'' with book and lyrics by George Haimsohn and Robin Miller, was a spoof of Hollywood musicals of the 1930's. The show opened at the Bouwe
 BROAS-Donald S. On November 22, 2000 at age 60. Beloved husband of Betty Jane Langer-Broas. Devoted father of Nancy Gray, Donald Jr., Kimberley and Gregory. Cherished grandfather of Hayley Gray. Former president Excelcare Health System Inc, executive vice president Interfaith Medical Center
 DUHL-Benjamin. On Nov. 23, 2000, peacefully at age 91. Loving husband of Shirley Katz Duhl and the late Ethel Cohen Duhl. Devoted father of Janet Spector (Dr. Joseph) and Roger Duhl (Diane Wild). Cherished grandfather of Douglas M. Spector (Ossie), Lisa Spector Rothkrug (Adam), Dana Spector
 FITZGERALD-William G., Jr. 73, of Charlottesville, VA, died November 22, 2000 at his home. For more information, contact Hill & Wood Funeral Home, 804-296-6148.       
 FUCHS-William, 89. Passed away Thursday, November 23, 2000 in Jacksonville, FL. Mr. Fuchs was predeceased by his parents, Samuel and Lena Fuchs, and his brother, Max Fuchs and is survived by his daughter, Deborah (John) DeAngelo, of Jacksonville, FL; brothers, Frank (Alice) Fuchs, Nathan Fu
 MAHLER-David Q., 77. On November 23, 2000 at home with his family. Beloved husband of Grace, devoted father of Robin, Michael, Peter, Susan, Thomas and Audrey. Adored grandfather of Emily, Rachel, Kayla, Jane, Nicholas, Alissa, Adam and Delilah. An accomplished and highly respected journali
 MALIN-Marvin. On November 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Loving father of Joyce Malin and Linda Knope. Adoring grandfather of Ashlynn Knope. He will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 PALITZ-Clarence Yale Jr. Died November 23 following a brief illness at age 69. He was the Chairman of the Board of Financial Federal Corporation, a major leasing and financial services company based in New York. A graduate of Dartmouth College and New York University Business School, he ser
 SHINE-Saul. Aged 89. Died in New York City on Thursday, November 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Marge. His loving family and friends will sorely miss his keen intellect and generous nature. He fought the good fight until the very end. There will be a memorial service held at ''The Riverside''
 Roger David Malkin, a leader in the American seed industry and high-technology agriculture, died on Wednesday at his home in Scott, Miss. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Last month, because of his illness, Mr. Malkin took emeritus status as chair
 Theodore Andre Monod, a distinguished French naturalist and authority on the Sahara, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Versailles, outside Paris. He was 98. A member of the French Academy of Sciences and a professor at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, Dr. Monod di
 Edward Ludlum, who won praise for his stage directing on both coasts, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles, where he had helped to establish professional theater. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said  David Stanford, his publicist. Mr. Ludlum's direction of a 1951 revival 
 Hamilton Bissell, who developed a program to recruit students who were ''long on brains and short on cash'' for Phillips Exeter Academy, died on Nov. 17 at his home in West Caldwell, N.J. He was 89. In 1946 Mr. Bissell became director of scholarship students at Exeter, as the boardi
 Keith Mant, a pathologist who provided evidence from exhumed corpses for the war crimes trials of Nazi doctors after World War II, died on Oct. 11 in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, England. He was 81. Evidence that Dr. Mant had collected was used to send a number of Nazis to the gallows.
 BROAS-Donald S. On November 22, 2000 at age 60. Beloved husband of Betty Jane Langer-Broas. Devoted father of Nancy Gray, Donald Jr., Kimberley and Gregory. Cherished grandfather of Hayley Gray. Former president Excelcare Health System Inc, executive vice president Interfaith Medical Center
 CLARK-William Lawrence (Larry). Died, age 68, at his Wolf Creek, MT home on November 20, 2000. Former resident of Teaneck, NJ. Son of the late Florence and William L. Clark, Sr. Survived by cousins: Louise Smith, Katharine DeLong, Anne Koester, Sidney Osborne and Peggy Huber.       
 DUFFY-James. Died November 19, 2000, after a brief illness, with loving family at his side. Will be dearly missed by all. ''The work praises the man.''       
 DUHL-Benjamin. On Nov. 23, 2000, peacefully at age 91. Loving husband of Shirley Katz Duhl and the late Ethel Cohen Duhl. Devoted father of Janet Spector (Dr. Joseph) and Roger Duhl (Diane Wild). Cherished grandfather of Douglas M. Spector (Ossie), Lisa Spector Rothkrug (Adam), Dana Spector
 FIELDS-Louis W. The partners of the former firm of Fields, Fischgrund & Aerenson CPAs mourn the passing of our very much loved partner and friend. Lou possessed a level of competency and technical skills rarely achieved by one in his profession. He combined this with a keen insight into the
 HERMELIN-David B. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our dear friend, longtime supporter, and former member of the Michigan Region Board of Directors, Ambassador David Hermelin. A constant source of inspiration and encouragement, David Hermeli
 HIRSH-Joseph. 85, twenty year resident of Norwalk, CT, died Tuesday at home. Born Bronx, NY, January 28, 1915, son of late Irving and Yetta Haber Hirsh. He was a retired Colonel, United States Army Medical Service Corps, Dean of Students and Professor of Community Medicine at Albert Einstei
 KATZ-Eli. Age 88, passed away at home in Coconut Creek, Florida, November 18. Mr. Katz formerly of Roslyn & Great Neck, practiced law until 1994. He was a graduate of NYU and Columbia University School of Law, and was qualified to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1969. He served as
 KREISELMAN-Jack. Clarinetist and conductor, Professor Emeritus, NYU, retired Professor, Stony Brook U. Beloved husband of the late Adelaide. Cherished father of Penny (Rick) and David (Debbi). Loving grandfather of Alex and Justin, Jenny, Jamie and Michael. Memorial concerts to be announced
 LeLANDAIS-William Burke, 43. Of South Egremont, MA. Died Tuesday, Nov. 21, 2000 at St. Peter's Hospital, Albany, NY following a long illness. He was born Aug. 16, 1957. Son of the late Pierre Jean LeLandais and Patricia Burke LeLandais, brother of Michelle Esposito, grandson of Jean LeLanda
 MAYER-Malvin J. Age 89, of Whitefield, ME, died November 23, 2000, at home. Born in Brookline, MA, of Joseph and Ruth (Redelsheimer) Mayer, he received a BS degree from MIT in 1933. He married Eleanor (Schwarz) Mayer in 1939. They lived in New Rochelle, NY, and retired to Washington, ME. Ma
 PALITZ-Clarence Yale Jr. Died November 23 following a brief illness at age 69. He was the Chairman of the Board of Financial Federal Corporation, a major leasing and financial services company based in New York. A graduate of Dartmouth College and New York University Business School, he ser
 SCHAEFER-George E. Of Ardsley on Hudson. On Nov. 21, 2000. Survived by his wife, daughter and grandson. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions to Rosary Hill Home, 600 Linda Avenue, Hawthorne, New York 10532.       
 SHINE-Saul. Aged 89. Died in New York City on Thursday, November 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Marge. His loving family and friends will sorely miss his keen intellect and generous nature. He fought the good fight until the very end. There will be a memorial service held at ''The Riverside''
 TROUT-Robert. A Mass in memory of Robert Trout will be celebrated at his parish church, St. Joseph's in Greenwich Village (371 Sixth Avenue), on Saturday, December 2, 2000, at 3:30 PM.       
 Gerald A. Soffen, a biologist who was chief scientist for the Viking missions that searched for signs of life on Mars in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 74, and associates said he had a heart ailment. Dr. Soffen, who lived
 Henry G. Walter Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of International Flavors and Fragrances, died on Nov. 11 at New York Hospital. Mr. Walter, who lived in New York, was 90. Mr. Walter became president of International Flavors and Fragrances in 1962 and was named ch
 ASHRAF-Shahid Najib. Died suddenly on Friday, November 24. He was the beloved husband of Leandra Barbieri and devoted father of Sayada Ashraf. Interment will be at 1 PM at the Washington Memorial Park, Mt. Sinai in Suffolk County on Tuesday, November 28. He is survived by his wife and daugh
 BERGER-Max. 89, of Pompano Beach, FL, passed away on November 25, 2000. He is survived by his loving children, Edward Berger and Nancy (Howard) Maybloom; cherished grandchildren, Lesley and Adam; and many nieces and nephews. Services will be held on Tuesday, November 28, 1 PM, Cedar Park Ce
 BROAS-Donald S. On November 22, 2000 at age 60. Beloved husband of Betty Jane Langer-Broas. Devoted father of Nancy Gray, Donald Jr., Kimberley and Gregory. Cherished grandfather of Hayley Gray. Former president Excelcare Health System Inc, executive vice president Interfaith Medical Center
 BURGHEIMER-Alan Joseph. A Rye resident, died on November 24, 2000, at his home, at age 87. Born in NYC on July 16, 1913, he is the son of the late Jacob and Gertrude Kahn Burgheimer. A veteran of the United States Navy, he served the nation during WWII. Mr. Burgheimer was the owner and exec
 CEPPOS-Jeffrey. On November 25, 2000, at age 58 after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving husband of Sandy. Devoted father of Samantha. A highly respected licensing executive in fashion, cosmetics and sports marketing. He was most recently Vice President of International Management Grou
 CLARK-Francis P. 81, of Harwich, MA, and formerly of Briarcliff Manor, NY, in Plymouth, MA, November 24. Husband of Lenore (Riemann) Clark of Harwich; father of Peter F. Clark of Wilmington, DE, Christine Morrison of Charlottesville, VA, and Ann Clark Tucker of Pittsfield, MA; brother of Wi
 CUNILIO-Victor. Age 84, died November 24, 2000. Beloved husband of Geraldine McMullen Cunilio. Dear father of Marianne Cunilio Jackson of NYC, Thomas V. of Gainesville, FL, and James of Rosemont, PA. His youngest child, Cecelia, predeceased him. Loving brother of Ann Palisi, Rose Fortunato 
 DAWID-Heinz. Died November 25, 2000. He was a founding member of a well known noted intellectual property law firm, Weiss, Dawid, Fross, Zelnick and Lehrman, now known as Fross, Zelnick, Lehrman and Zissu. He was a world traveler. Survivors include his wife Jeanette of Oneonta, NY, his chil
 EIDSON-John L. 80, died on November 24, of cancer. World War II veteran, born in Toledo, OH, he moved to Detroit where he was a carrier accountant with the U.S. government. A respected actor in Detroit community theater, he made NYC his home for the past 30 years including an eight year sta
 GALLANT-Arthur. 74, of Harrison, NY, on November 25, 2000. The son of the late Earl and Essie Gallant. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Shapiro). Devoted father of Debra and Joel Binstok, Stephen and Melissa Gallant. Cherished grandfather of Danielle, Michael, Madison, Sarah and Emily. Loving b
 HEFTER-Alfred. Husband of Lillian, father of Robert J., Leonard R. and the late Sandford M. Beloved grandfather and greatgrandfather. Loved by all who knew him. Peacefully, Saturday, November 25, 2000, in Palm City, FL. Graveside services will be held at United Synagogue Cemetery at Route 2
 HERMELIN-David B. Thanks To Scandinavia notes with sadness the untimely passing of David B. Hermelin, dynamic U.S. Ambassador to Norway and passionate philanthropic leader. Ambassador Hermelin honored our educational foundation in 1998 with the establishment of the annual David B. Hermelin 
 PALITZ-Clarence Yale Jr. Died November 23 following a brief illness at age 69. He was the Chairman of the Board of Financial Federal Corporation, a major leasing and financial services company based in New York. A graduate of Dartmouth College and New York University Business School, he ser
 Dr. Louis S. Goodman, a renowned pharmacologist, a discoverer of the first effective anticancer chemotherapy and a creator of a textbook used by generations of doctors, died at his home in Salt Lake City on Nov. 19. He was 94 and had taught for many years at the University of Utah. 
 Dr. James Deetz, an American anthropologist who dug into the country's colonial past, died on Saturday at a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 70 and lived in Charlottesville, where he had been the Harrison professor of historical archeology at the University of Virginia since 1994.   
 Joseph Hirsh, an authority on alcoholism who taught at medical schools, died last Tuesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 85. Dr. Hirsh, whose doctorate was in education, was executive secretary of the National Research Council's Committee on Problems of Alcohol from 1949 to 19
 DAWID-Heinz. Fross Zelnick Lehrman & Zissu, PC, records with great sorrow the loss of one of our founding partners, Heinz Dawid, on November 25, 2000. Born and educated in Germany, he received a Doctorate of Law from the University of Berlin in 1935. In 1936 he published, illegally, a book 
 DUHL-Benjamin N. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of a devoted friend of our medical school since its earliest days in the 1950's. With his wife, Laura, he was a Founder of our institution and steadfast in his support for more th
 GALLANT-Arthur. 74, of Harrison, NY, on November 25, 2000. The son of the late Earl and Essie Gallant. Beloved husband of Lois (nee Shapiro). Devoted father of Debra and Joel Binstok, Stephen and Melissa Gallant. Cherished grandfather of Danielle, Michael, Madison, Sarah and Emily. Loving b
 GOLDSTEIN-Martin E. Of New Rochelle, N.Y. died Sunday, November 26, 2000 at the age of 66. He was a partner in the intellectual property field in the law firm Darby & Darby, in New York City. He is survived by his wife Judy, daughter Sue, son Jay and four grandchildren. GOLDSTEIN-Ma
 GOREN-Yoram, died peacefully in London after a short illness on November 26th. Aged 66, he is survived by his loving wife Gunilla, daughters Nicky and Leora, and stepson Leon. Donations, if desired, to the Imperial Cancer Research Fund in London or the Israel Cancer Research Fund. Private f
 GREENBERG-Benjamin S. Died November 26 at age 78 after a courageous five year struggle with kidney disease. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving father of Penny, DeDe, Bill and Mike. Dear fatherin-law of Dave, Craig, Susan and Roz. Loving grandfather of Bill, Elizabeth, Jake, Rachel, Eli, Danie
 HIRSCH-Dr. Joseph. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of one of the founding members of our faculty and our first assistant dean for student affairs (1955-1967). We are grateful for the notable contributions he made to the growth and development of our
 LEASS-Reuben, M.D. Died peacefully at home on November 26, 2000 at age 91 after an illness. A graduate of New York University (1930), he received his M.D. (1934) from the University of Maryland, School of Medicine. He volunteered for active duty during WW II and served as a captain in the U
 LIEBOWITZ-Murray. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel, mourns the loss of its beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Virginia and son Jacob. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Abby Sosland, Asst Rabbi Carol J. Green, President Cantor Shayna Smith       
 MALKIN-Roger. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of Roger Malkin, who, along with his companion, Barbara Jakobson, generously supported so many of the Museum's programs, from The Department of Architecture and Design and the Museum's Library and 
 MELMED-David. 77. Died November 25. He graduated Yeshiva University in '45, received Rabbinical ordination in '47, and M.S. of Education in '60. He served as a Rabbi and educator and was President of Ben Ari Arts NYC. He was admired for his Talmudic scholarship and honesty in business, and 
 Former Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a pugnacious and partisan Texas Democrat who used his perch as the chairman of the House banking committee to champion public housing and tighter controls over the savings and loan industry, died today in a San Antonio Hospital. He was 84 and lived i
 Hugh Alexander, who became a baseball scout at age 20 and went on to sign dozens of future major leaguers in a career that spanned six decades and countless miles on the back roads of America, died Saturday at a hospital in Bethany, Okla. He was 83. Known as Uncle Hughie, Alexander 
 Sir Malcolm Bradbury, the English author, critic, biographer and teacher known for his passionate support of British and American fiction, died yesterday in Norwich, England. He was 68 and lived in Norwich. He had been ill for some months, his family said. Sir Malcolm was re
 CAMCHE-Margarita. November 26, at age 66 after bravely battling cancer and a life of giving & loving. Beloved wife of Joel, mother of Leonor and Peter, grandmother of Danielle, sister of Jaime, Angel and Carmelo. Services Thursday 11:45 AM, visitation on Wednesday 6-9 PM at ''The Riverside'
 DUHL-Benjamin N. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a veteran leader of its Real Estate and Construction Division. He was a long time member of the Prime Minister's Club who served with distinction as a Vice Chairman of the campaign. We
 GOLDSTEIN-Martin E. The Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee and Metro-North Railroad Commuter Council mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 GOULDER-John E. Of Watertown, MA., November 26. Beloved son of Alice (Iseman) and the late James H. Goulder of Scarsdale, NY. Brother of James H. Jr and his wife Ingrid of St. James, NY, and Alison P. Goulder of Newton, MA. Loving uncle of Deborah and David Steingesser. Also survived by the
 JONES-James S. Architect and sportsman, died at the age of 86 near his home in Gladstone, New Jersey. Jimmy Jones had his own architectural firm in Morristown, New Jersey for over forty years.He was a graduate of Yale University and the Yale School of Architecture. And he was a member of th
 MILLER-Barnett (Bud). Passed away November 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Shirley. His family and friends will deeply miss his intellect, and being a gentle man.       
 MULLER-William. Died peacefully November 27 in his 100th year. Beloved husband of the late Hilda. Formerly executive chef of the Louis Sherry Restaurant of the Metropolitan Opera House. Proprietor of Challet Swiss, Warrensburg, New York. Memorial service to be announced.       
 NEWMAN-Eugene. The members of the East Hill Synagogue of Englewood, NJ mourn the untimely death of its esteemed member, Eugene Newman. May his family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 PALITZ-Clarence Yale, Jr. It is with great sadness that the Board of Directors and staff of Career Transition For Dancers acknowledges the untimely passing of Clarence Palitz, husband of our fellow Board member and dear friend, Anka Palitz. ''Cal'' was an important and generous supporter of
 RATNER-Milton. The Officers, Directors, and Aministration of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Foundation extend their sympathy to Sheldon Ratner, fellow Board member, on the loss of his beloved father. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. S. Merrill Skeist, President Lawrence Simon, C
 SCHWARTZ-S. Louis We extend heartfelt condolences to Morton Schwartz, on the loss of his beloved father. As Silver Founders of the Medical Center, Morton and Fayge Schwartz personify the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics, which they learned from this caring and kind man. As Vice
 STEINBERG-David. Of Washington, D.C. On Sunday, November 26, 2000, at his residence. The cherished son of Renita and the late Myron (Michael) Steinberg. He was a graduate of the American University. Mr. Steinberg owned a TV-production company and was co-founder and President of The State Th
 Alan S. Emory, one of the longest-serving journalists in Washington and correspondent for one of the smallest papers to maintain its own bureau there, died on Monday at his Falls Church, Va., home. He was 78. He was Washington correspondent of The Watertown Daily Times of Watertown,
 David R. Hunter, an innovative matchmaker between progressive charities and liberal philanthropists who used a small family foundation to help bring widespread recognition to causes that had been little known, like protecting battered women and promoting environmental justice, died on Satur
 BRAYER-Richard, age 65, died peacefully on November 26, 2000 at Massachusetts General Hospital. He is survived by family and friends. He is loved and will be missed by all. Services were private. Donations can be made to the New England Veterans Shelter, 20 Court St, Boston, MA 02108.      
 CAUSIN-Joseph. Died of cancer November 27, 2000 in Baltimore at age 88. A 1933 NYU graduate and outstanding athlete, he won medals in track and field. A CPA, he taught accounting at NYU and Rutgers University. He joined the USMC Reserve in 1934, and during WWII, performed cost accounting se
 COLER-Alexander. The American Technion Society (ATS) expresses its profound sorrow at the loss of Alexander Coler, a devoted supporter. As Technion Guardians, he and his wife, Tina, reached the highest level of commitment to the Technion, the ATS and Israel. He supported the Coler Californi
 CURRAN-Mortimer Leslie. Died at his home in Palm Beach, Florida, on November 20, 2000. He is survived by his loving wife, Mary Estelle, and a son, Mortimer Finlay Curran. The family funeral service was private.       
 HUNTER-David R. Died November 24th, 2000 after a long illness. A social worker by training and an activist by inclination, he was a lifelong partisan of freedom and democracy. Widely recognized as the leader of progressive philanthropy both in his years with the Stern Fund, The Ottinger Fou
 LANDSMAN-Edward, 87. Beloved husband of the late Pearl, devoted father of Robert, Alton and fatherin-law of Patricia Tinto, adored grandfather of Perry and Andrew. Interment at Cedar Park Cemetery, N.J., 11AM today. Contributions in his memory may be made to: Temple Shalom, 259 Richards Ave
 LISCIO-John Carmine Francis of Upper Montclair, NJ. On November 29, 2000. Husband of Frances (Pelzman) Liscio. Father of Laura Brooke and Gregory Luke. Son of Armand and Josephine Liscio. Brother of Jeanette Kamciyan. Uncle of Ani, Armeni and Antony. Funeral from the Hugh M. Moriarty Funera
 MOROWITZ-Morris. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourns the passing of Morris Morowitz, lifelong member of the Workmen's Circle, and father of Jacob Morowitz, devoted member of the YIVO National Board of Directors, Co-Chair of the National Program Committee & President of the Chicago
 NELLIGAN-Luke A. Sr. Of Rego Park, Queens, passed away November 26, 2000 at the age of 87. He is the former owner and operator of Lanell Inc. located in Queens. Mr. Nelligan is survived by sons Luke A. Nelligan III of Patchogue, L.I. and Mark C. Nelligan of Whitehouse Station, N.J., a grand
 PEARL-Harold. Of Chicago, IL. World famous theater organist and icon of the Big Band Era, died on November 23, 2000 at age 92. Mr. Pearl is the son of the late Emil and Selma Perl. He is survived by two nephews; Gregory Pearl of Glenview, IL. and Steven Pearl, and family of Hinsdale, IL. Fo
 RHODES-John B. The employees and partners of Booz-Allen & Hamilton mourn the death of our friend and former colleague, John B. Rhodes. John's long term leadership of the firm, his vision, wise advice, unwavering support, and involvement in local and international affairs will be greatly mis
 RUBIN-Joseph. The Yeshiva University family and the affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Board of Trustees are saddened by the passing of a longtime friend-a dynamic leader, generous supporter, and champion of the YU High Schools. He and his beloved wife, Rosalind, are High 
 SCHENCK-Garret. Of Boston, November 13, 2000, age 68. Prominent Boston insurance executive; graduate of Deerfield Academy, Williams College and University of Virginia Law School. Survived by his wife, Sue Becket (Williams); three sons, Hilbert van Nydeck, II, Christopher Forest, and Garret,
 SCHINDLER - Alexander. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research mourn the loss of our National Council member (since 1993) Rabbi Alexander Schindler, an eminent religious leader, organization executive, author/editor, and advocate for the protection of t
 Below a movie screen -- flickering with images from films like ''The 400 Blows'' and ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' -- friends and associates of Vincent Canby delivered their reviews of the life and long career of the former film and drama critic for The New York Times. Mr. Canby died 
 Thomas Quinn Curtiss, for many years a reviewer of theater and film for The International Herald Tribune, died on Monday in Poissy, France, outside of Paris. He was 85. Long a fixture on the Paris scene, he had lived below the famous restaurant Tour d'Argent, where he was a friend o
