 Gabriel Lewis Galindo, the Panamanian diplomat and businessman who helped negotiate the Panama Canal Treaties, spearheaded efforts to overthrow Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and served until recently as his country's Foreign Minister, died on Dec. 19 in Denver, where he had been undergoing me
 Lew Ayres, the movie actor who skyrocketed to fame as a disillusioned German soldier in ''All Quiet on the Western Front'' in 1930 and was also celebrated for playing the title role in ''Young Dr. Kildare'' and the series of films that followed it, died on Monday in Los Angeles, where he li
 BARKSDALE - Walter Lane. The faculty, students and alumni of New York University School of Medicine mourn the loss of one of our distinguished professors, who served on our faculty for over 30 years. Lane Barksdale taught countless students, now alumni, who enjoyed the benefits of his dedic
 ELLISON - Edward S. of Stony Brook, formerly of Hempstead on December 31, 1996 in his 81st year. Colonel USAFR, former Deputy Medical Examiner for Administration Nassau County Medical Examiner's Office. Former finance officer US Merchant Marine Academy. Devoted husband of Muriel, beloved fa
 FLYNN - Rev. Br. Dennis (Borromeo) C.F.X. On December 30, 1996 in Brooklyn. A distinguished and beloved Xaverian Brother for 64 years. He taught English and Latin at Xaverian highs chools in NY, MA, and MD. Son of Patrick and Margaret. He is survived by brother Jerome P. of Brooklyn and fiv
 FRIEDMAN - William, 86, died on December 30, 1996, in Palo Alto. Bloved husband of Jeanette, father of Avra and Paul, brother of Rose, grandfather of Loren, Joslyn, Rebecca, David, Sarah and Emily, father-in-law of Gillian. Former teacher and principal in the New York City Public Schools, w
 IGANOPULOS - Nicholas J. on December 30, 1996. Beloved husband of Mary, father of Him, Despina and Peter, granfather of Mimi. Friends may call of Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Services at Holy Trinity Greek Cathedral, 343 E. 74th St. Friday, 10 AM
 SHAPIRO - Ralph, left us on December 28. He was loved by all who knew him for his enjoyment of life and his generous nature. We mourn with his caring wife, Robin, and with his children. Gertrude and Herman Gross       
 ZIVIN - Leo. Passed away Dec. 28, 1996. The Board of Directors, friends and colleagues of Israel Bonds-Divison of Organizations mourn the loss of their chairman for the last 25 years, prominent attorney and stounch friend of Israel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Blossom a
 Peter James Roylance, a physician and researcher with Merck Sharp & Dohme, a subsidiary of Merck & Company, the pharmaceutical company, died on Saturday at his home in Long Hill Township, N.J. He was 68. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Dr. Roylance, who joined M
 When he squeezed off a dozen rounds from his M-16 rifle into the crowded Arab market in Hebron today, Pvt. Noam Friedman joined a small but notorious group of Jews who have turned to acts of desperate violence against a peace accord they believe is anathema for their people. Like Yi
 Leonard Altman, a musician, teacher, writer and arts administrator who played an important role in the preservation of Carnegie Hall and was director of the music division of the New York State Council of the Arts, died on Tuesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 yea
 CONWAY - Hewitt A. Died suddenly on December 28, 1996, at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Devoted and adored husband of Jeanne for 41 years. Beloved father of Louis G. Conway and Irene H. Coleman, loving grandfather of Eleanor and Hewitt Coleman, Son of the late Honorable Albert Conway, former 
 CROSS - Jackson, in his 90th year, passed away in Vero Beach, FL. December 29, 1996. Son of the late Dr. and Mrs. Frank Bethel Cross. Beloved husband of Anne Meyer Cross. Devoted father of Mitzi Scrivan, Susan Benoit and Alice Dorrance. Loving grandfather of Kate, Andrew, Tessa, Cyrus, Sam 
 HALSEY - Bryant. Age 85, a retired executive from the Cafritz Company of Washington, D.C. and a real estate consultant with national and international affiliations died on Wed. January 1, 1997. Mr. Halsey was born in Manhattan and attended Choate School and majored in architecture at Prince
 MORRISON - Kenneth. The Board of Governors and members of Fresh Meadow Country club extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Karen, his children Kirsten and Todd and the entire family on the the passing of our former golf professional who served our club for many years.  Richard Reitman, P
 Robert J. Morris, whose ministrations as counsel for a Cold War Senate subcommittee bent on rooting out Communists marked a long career devoted to conservative causes, died on Sunday at Point Pleasant Hospital in Point Pleasant, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mantoloking, N.J. The caus
 Theodore Baird, an emeritus professor of English at Amherst College and a specialist in teaching students how to write, died on Sunday at Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. He was 95 and lived in Amherst, Mass. Professor Baird served on the Amherst faculty from 1927 unt
 Bradley D. Nash, an Eisenhower Administration figure who went on to be co-author of a highly praised book about improving the executive branch of Government, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Ranson, W.Va. He was 96 and lived in Harpers Ferry, W.Va. From 1927 to 1929, Mr. Nash was 
 A sloganeering full-page ad has been appearing in British newspapers that pictures the candidates for prime minister and announces, ''Frankly, it doesn't matter who you vote for; he won't be running anyway.'' In stark white letters on a black background, another says, ''John Major i
 Maj. Gen. Winston Peabody Wilson, the architect of the United States' modern Ready Reserve -- ready to join the regular forces swiftly on overseas missions -- died on Tuesday at Baptist East Hospital in Memphis, where he was taken after a stroke. He was 85 and lived in Forrest City, Ark.   
 Harvey H. Lippincott, a founder and archivist of the New England Air Museum in Windsor Locks, Conn., and a leading expert on New England aviation history, died on Monday at his home in Hebron, Conn. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Priscilla G. Lippincott said. 
 James D. Webb, a former Assistant Secretary of the Interior and a leader of the Wilderness Society who spurred efforts to restore the Florida Everglades, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 60. The cause was brain cancer, said his colleagues at the Wilderness Society, w
 Lloyd C. Wicke, former Methodist Bishop of Pittsburgh and then of New York, and an architect of the merger that created the United Methodist Church, died on Sunday at Park Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio. Bishop Wicke, who had recently returned to Columbus after making his home in Fort Mye
 ALTMAN - Leonard. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Camegle Hall note with sadness the passing of Leonard Altman, an original trustee of the Carnegie Hall Corporation who helped save the hall from demolition in 1960. We send our condolences to his friends and family.  Isaac Stern, Presiden
 AVIGDOR - Albert. Beloved husband of Leah and loving father of Rosalyn and Raphael, Jan. 2, 1997 in FL. Services Sunday, January 5, Nassau North Chapels, 55 N. Station Plaza, Great Neck, 12 Noon. AVIGDOR - Albert. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condole
 BICKFORD - Harold E. on January 1, 1997, born November 20, 1910 in Washington, DC, the son of Samuel L. Bickford and Mary A. Haddigan. Harold was the loving husband for fifty years of Elsie Dineson Burns, who he leaves with his children: AMichael L. Bickford, Catherine B. Cann, Peter J. Bic
 COE - Jacques, Jr. a vice president of Oppenheimer and Company, of Larchmont, New York on January 1st, of pneumonia, a complication of leukemia. Devoted son of Jacques Coe. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Wimpfheimer Coe. Adored father of William Coe, Liz Coe (Daniel Odess), James Coe (K
 CONWAY - Hewitt A. Died suddenly on December 28, 1996, at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Devoted and adored husband of Jeanne for 41 years. Beloved father of Louis G. Conway and Irene H. Coleman, loving grandfather of Eleanor and Hewitt Coleman. Sone of the late Honorable Albert Conway, former
 GOLDBERG - Bertram Peter, of West Palm Beach, Florida. He leaves his beloved wife Elayne and brother Al Goldberg. For information ''The Riverside'', 76th Street, New York, New York.       
 GOLDSMITH - Sigmund. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our devoted member, Beverly Druck. May his entire family be comfroted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem.  Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi  Samuel Goldman, President  Elza Weinman, Sisterhood GOLDSMITH -
 HESS - Leonard J. On January 1, 1997, in his 91st year. passed away in Hollywood, Flordia. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Sloan Hess and the late Carol Hirschfeld Hess. Devoted father of Stephen R. and Katherine Ann. Loving brother of the late Shirley Freydberg. Service Sunday, January 5,
 HORNUNG - Clarence P. On January 2, 1997, 97 years. Beloved husband of Rose and the late Sara. Devoted father of Richard and Elaine and Donald and Sis. Loving grandfather and cherished great grandfather. Services Sunday, 1:30 PM at ''Gutterman's Inc.'', 175 Long Beach Rd. Rockville Centre, 
 LAZARUS - J. Louis. Beloved husband of Margaret. Devoted uncle of Stephen Hess, Jeffrey Hess, Dr. Howard Wellins. He was a sweetheart. Thank you for 60 years of happiness and love. Mickey Services Friday 1 PM at Temple Beth-EL of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road. In lieu of flowers, contribution
 MACEWICZ - Robert, ''Airport Bob'' died December 21, 1996 at his home at the former Santa Rosa Air Center. He is survived by his son, Matthew and stepson, Sean. Brothers John of Arizona and Walter of New Jersey. He was born on 8/9/43. Bob was a member of the military and served in Korea. An
 MAGUIRE - Edward J. Jr. age 71, died on December 31, 1996 in Brooklyn, NY. He owned Robinson Brothers Chemical Co. Friends are invited to attend the funeral on Saturday, at 9:45 A.M. at the Shaughnessey Funder Home, 50 Reef Toad, Fairfield, CT, and at St. Thomas Aquinas Church with a Mass o
 SUNUNU - John Saleh. On January 1, 1997. At his home in Gulfstream, FL. Born in Boston, MA. March 21, 1909 and a longtime resident of Forest Hills, NY until his retirement to Florida in 1979. He was an entrepreneur and was President of Peerless Export Co. of New York City. He loved to trave
 ULLMAN - Gerald Howard, on December 30, 1996 in Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of 51 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Loving husband of his late wife, Marcia Dubey Ullman. Survived by his second wife Susie Press Ullman; his son Steven M. Ullman and daughter Marjorie Ullman; grandchildren Jerry and Mi
 WHALING - James Tyler, on January 1, 1997, of Chappaqua, New York. Son of George A. and Suzanne (nee Kelly) Whaling. Brother of Collins Baker, Sally and Mark Wahling. Step-grandson of Gertrude Kelly. Resting Beecher Funderal Home, Pleasantville, on Friday 7-9 only. Mas of Christian Burial S
 Philip M. Wagner, who founded Maryland's best-known winery, Boordy Vineyards, and introduced French-American hybrid grapes to America, died on Sunday at his home in Riderwood, Md. He was 92. The cause was emphysema and heart failure, a family member said. Mr. Wagner, who was
 Townes Van Zandt, an influential songwriter whose dark and tragic country and folk ballads mirrored his own life, died on Wednesday at his home in Smyrna, Tex. He was 52. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Beverly Paul, a spokeswoman for Sugar Hill, the music label for wh
 Wesley Addy, an actor who was well versed in classics from Shakespeare to Shaw and who frequently appeared in roles opposite his wife, Celeste Holm, died on Tuesday at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Onstage, Mr. Addy often communicated an air of
 Gerald V. Williamson, a St. Louis civic leader and mechanical engineer who joined the battle against air pollution early on, died of heart failure last Saturday at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 95. Mr. Williamson graduated in 1922 with a degree in mechanical engineering from W
 Henry Lincoln Yeagley, a physicist who developed a theory in 1942 to explain why birds could fly great distances and then return to the precise spot they had left, died on Dec. 26 in State College, Pa. He was 97 and lived in State College. In the early 1930's, Professor Yeagley also
 ADDY - Wesley. A good friend and neighbor whose talent and demeanor were as elegant as his wit. We shal treasure the memory of this unique and gentile man.  Fellow residents of the Brentmore.       
 COE, Jacques, Jr. a vice president at Oppenheimer and Company of Larchmont, New York on January 1st, of pneumonia, a complication of leukemia. Devoted son of Jacques Coe. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Wimpfheimer Coe. Adored father of William Coe, Liz Coe (Daniel Odess), James Coe (Kar
 DAVIA - Federico. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Federico Davia, a beloed artist and friend. He will be sorely missed by his many friends in the company and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Joseph Volpe, General Manager  James Levine, Artistic Director      
 ELLMAN - Marc A. We mourn the loss of our beloved Marc Amlyad Ellman who left us too early on Dec. 27, 1996. Devoted son of Bernard and Batshua Ellman. Loving father of Tzvi Ellman. Loving brother of Zeva E. Williams. Granduate of The Hillel School, attended Ramaz Yeshiva and graduate of SU
 HESS - Leonard J. On January 1, 1997, in his 91st year. Passed away in Hollywood, Florida. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Sloan Hess and the late Carol Hirschfeld Hess. Devoted father of Stephen R. and Katherine Ann. Loving brother of the late Shirley Freydberg. Service Sunday, January 5,
 MACEIRAS - Alfred. 62. Died January 2, 1997 after a courageous battle with cancer. He was a devoted Supervisor for NY's Bureau of Child Welfare, a loving father and loyal friend. Funeral services and burial Saturday, 10 A.M. at Greenwood Cemetery, Brooklyn. Maceiras is survived by his son M
 TENNEY - George Clinton. On January 3, 1997 in Orleans, MA at age 98. He was born in Provo, UT on July 13, 1898 and was a survivor of the San Francisco earthquake and fire of 1906. He attended the University of California at Berkley which awarded him an honorary doctorate. He joined the McG
 EPSTEIN - Edward. The earth can have but earth. His spirit of good lives. Doris George Estelle       
 Dr. Christopher Pavlides, the chief orthopedic surgeon at Wyckoff Heights Hospital in Brooklyn, died on Thursday night when the plane he was piloting crashed just after takeoff in Virginia. He was 66 and lived in Glen Cove, L.I. His wife, Hetty Hardin, and two friends, David and Ang
 Joseph Charles Muhler, a latter-day alchemist who helped turn stannous fluoride into tubed gold -- a dentifrice named Crest -- died on Dec. 24 at St. Joseph Medical Center in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 73 and lived in nearby Sturgis, Mich. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. 
 Lelan F. Sillin Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of Northeast Utilities, Connecticut's largest utility, died on Friday in a traffic accident. He was 78 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Mr. Sillin, who retired as Northeast Utilities' chairman in 1983, was an early advocate of
 ATTANASIO - Salvatore. On New Year's eve at his home, II HOtel San Pietro di Positano, which he dedicated his entire life to, suddently left his loving family and friends for a better place. In lieu of floers, contributions may be made in his memory to a favority charity.       
 BEYERSDORF - Rene on January 1, 1997. Husband of Mathilde Beyersdorf, father of Frances Sutherland and John Beyersdorf. Also survived by six grandchildrena nd seven great grandchildren. Memorial service to be held at the Scarsdale Congregational Church, Scarsdale, NY on March 16 at 4 PM. In
 BIGGS - Richard A. 86. Died December 13 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Madelyn O. Memorial service January 7, 6 PM, Fifth avenue Presbyterian Church. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the church.       
 BROWN - Stanley N. Died Friday, January 4. Beloved son of Abe and Yetta. Brother of Marsha and devoted companion of Rudolpho Coo. A man of deep compassion, he gave of his time, his money and of himself. He will be remembered with love and affection by all his relatives and by all who knew h
 FANNON - Marcy B. Of Bronxville, NY. Died January 3, 1997. He is survived by his wife Betty Spencer; their five children, Jeffrey S. (Patricia), Peter M. S. Kent (Diane), Elizabeth B. (William F. O'Leary) and Anne L. (John L. Appleby II); and six grandchildren. After retiring from American 
 GEMDAR - Bertram E. Jr. 83, of Manhattan. Died of cancer Saturday, January 4, at St. Luke's-Rossevelt Hospital in Manhattan. Born in Brooklyn, a son of Bertram and Irma Gendar. He graduated from Williams College and Brooklyn Law School. He served in the U.S. Coast Guard during World War II 
 HARRINGTON - Charles James, a former Vice President of DuPont, died suddenly on January 1st at Bethesda Hospital in Boynton Beach, Florida. He was 85 years old. Mr. Harrington was born in DuPont, Washington and has been a resident of Greenville, Delaware for 82 years. He graduated from Hotc
 HOPKINS - Terence Kilbourne. Died on January 3, 1997, peacefully at Lourdes Hospital, Binghamton, NY. He was 68 years of age. The cause of death was cancer. He was professor of sociology at Binghamton University where he found its graduate program in sociology in 1970, retiring in 1995. He 
 LENNON - Jeremy C. ''The Honorable.'' Passed away on December 30, 1996, after a valiant and courageous fight with AIDS. Survived by his mother Geraldine, nieces Michelle and Lisa, great-nephew Samuel, his 17-year partner in life Jeffrey L. Coon and the Alexander, Coon, Hesler, Goldstein, an
 MEIGHAN - Burton C. December 31, 1996 in New Rochelle Hospital at the age of 96. Pre-deceased by his wife, Marian Dyke Meighan in 1971. Husband of Grace McCann Meighan. Father of Jeff, Bruce, and Peninah Martin. Grandfather of six grandchildren. Brother of Hunter and Ruth Gillette, and the 
 NEVAI - Bela B. founder of NEVCO, died at 88, Dec. 6th, 1996 in New York City. After ''retiring'' in 1972 he became an investor and philanthropist. When asked his profession he jokingly called himself ''just a golfer.'' Bill Nevai was loved and cherished by all for his wide interests and gr
 SCHWARTZ - Lawrence, age 77. Beloved and cherished husband of Sandy. Adored father of Jill, David and Marc. Loving brother of Sidney, June and Harold. Died suddenly January 1, 1997 in Sun City Center, FL. A resident of Floral Park, NY for more than 44 years, he was a proud veteran of 39 mon
 SUNUNU - John Saleh. On January 1, 1997. At his home in Gulstream, FL. Born in Boston, MA. March 21, 1909 and a longtime resident of Forest Hills, NY until his retirement of Florida in 1979. He was an entrepreneur and was President of Peerless Export Co. of New York City. He loved to travel
 TURNURE - Michael de Burbure, on January 2 in Lakeville, CT, at age 60. A graduate of Princeton, 1957, he owned and headed Community Lumber and Hardware, Inc. in Lakeville. He is survived and deeply mourned by his wife Joan; by five children: Lillian Bassett, Virginia Morgan, John, Barbara,
 WEINSTEIN - Charles. Dearest husband of Sadie. Loving father of Sandra and Donald Miller, Martin and Ginger Weinstein. Adored grandfather of Jody, Mark, Robin, Nancy and Todd. Beloved by all who knew him. Service noon, today, at the Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 312 Coney Island Avenue, Brook
 Dr. Robert Traub, a medical entomologist who compared fleas from distant times and places and saw in them clues to the mysteries of evolution and continental drift, died on Dec. 21 at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 80 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was p
 Harry B. Helmsley, New York's preeminent real estate investor, broker and deal maker whose reputation late in life was clouded by tax evasion charges in a case that led to a four-year prison term for his wife, Leona, died Saturday at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 
 Marcus Gerhardt Langseth, a pioneering earth scientist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory for 40 years, died on Saturday at his home in Palisades, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Lillian Langseth. In the late 1950's and early 
 KAPTZAN - Michael. The Board of Governors and members of Broe Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the pasing of our esteemed member, Michael Kpatzan. Our hearfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Helen, his chidren Kyra and James, and grandchildren.  Leon Fassler, President  Monty Da
 KOLOVSKY - Judge Harold. Of Morristown, NJ. Died on January 3, 1997. He is survived by his wife Edith Mintz Kolovsky. A funeral service was held on Sunday, January 5 in Morristown, NJ, interment Beth El Cemetery, Paramus NJ. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Morristown Memorial Hospital 
 TURKEN - Stanley, on January 4, 1997. He died after a short but hard-fought battle with kidney cancer. Adoring husband of CeriAnn. Affectionate and cherished father of Greta and Jason. Loving brother of Jerry and Marvin. Treasured friend to many. His inate sensitivity for art and music, his
 Burton Lane, the Broadway and Hollywood composer who wrote the melodies for ''Finian's Rainbow''  and such enduring songs as ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever,'' ''(I Like New York in June) How About You?'' and ''Too Late Now,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.        
 Dr. Harry H. LeVeen, a surgeon whose solution to the often fatal buildup of fluid from severe liver diseases eased the suffering and extended the lives of innumerable patients, died on Dec. 28 at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 82 and lived in Charleston, S.C. The cause
 AGOGLIA - Kenneth Francis, on Mon. Jan 6. Beloved father, attorney, World War II Veteran. Survivded by daughters Michele A. and Eileen D. and son Kenneth T. Reposing at Macken Mortuary, 516-766-3300. In lieu of flowers, please send donations in his memory to The Association for the Help of 
 ALVARY - Lorenzo. On December 13, 1996 at age 89. Beloved husband of Hallie (nee Carr). Survived by his brothers Lewis, George, three nieces and one nephew. Memorial service Thursday, January 9, 1997, 1:30 pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street.       
 FRIEDMAN - Isaac S. M.D. on January 5, 1997. Outstanding and dedicated physician, scholar and Professor of Medicine; ardent and generous friend of Israel and of the cause of peace and justice throughout the world. Beloved husband, brother and uncle. Survived by his devoted wife Ruth Broun F
 GINSBERG - Edward. The officers and staff at National United Jewish Appeal mounr the passing of Edward Ginsberg, UJA General Chairman from 1968 to 1971, and UJA President from 1971 to 1974. Following the Six-Day War, Mr. Ginsberg, led a UJA leadership team to Israel to survey the war's impa
 HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York mourn the passing of our distinguished and loyal member, Harry B. Helmsley. Our heartfelt sympathy and respect is extended to his wife, Leona.  Robert Selsam, Co-Chairman  Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman  Jerome, Belson, 
 KARBAN - Elias, on January 5, 1997. The partners, associates and staff of Arenson, Dittmar & karban mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed senior partner, Elias Karban. His wise counsel, strength of character and genuine humanity will be long remembered and missed. Mr. Karban had
 LANE - Burton, Composer. At his home in Manhattan on the evening of January 5. Survived by his wife Lynn, his daughter Diana, and stepdaughters Elizabeth, Peggy, and Hillary Kaye. Funeral services Wednesday, 11:15 A.M. at Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam. In lieu of flowers, contributio
 LOWRY - John C. The Officers, Directors and employees of The Buckingham Research Group deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and long time Senior Vice-President, John Lowry. His intellectual prowess, good humor, and above all, his mature wisdom and sagacity will sorely be missed by all of
 MOORE - James A. M.D. The officers and members of the NYC Physicians Golfing Association, mourn the death of our member and Past President on January 5, 1997. We extend our hearfelt sympathies to his family.  Alan G. Miller, MD, President  Gregory LaTrenta, MD,  President Elect  Allen W. Me
 PANOFF - Henry. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Elmwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Henry Panoff. He was a visible part of Elmwood during the over 35 years of his membership. He served the club as a member of the Board of Governors in 
 RAPOPORT - Sidney. For decades a pioneer of fine printing, Sid was a collaborator and friend of photographers, and the many books he had done serve as our national heritage. We thank him for his care. We shall miss him.  Willis Hartshorn, Cornell Capa,  International Center  of Phot
 RODMAN - Jerrald P. Beloved husband sole mate of Lucille. Devoted father of Jeffrey, Barbara and Elizabeth. Loving father-in-law of Stewart and Marc. Adored grandfather of Stacey, Jessica, Cary, Michelle, Todd, Tyler, Lindsey and Amanda. We will miss your warmth, generosity, sense of humor 
 SEXTON - Richard J. Ph.D. on January 3, 1997 of Forest Hills, NY. Professor Emeritus Fordham University. Beloved husband of the late Georgina McSweeney Sexton. Survived by his beloved wife Virginia Staudt Sexton, Ph.D. Devoted father of Nancy E. Georgina S. Mary Sexton Althouse and Richard 
 SUMERS - Dr. John. The Board of Governors and members of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. John Sumers their esteemed former member and extend their deepest sympathy to his family.  Donald Stein, President  Howard Jacobs, Secretary       
 WRIGHT - Joseph G., 80, on Dec. 25, in Tamarac, FL, after a long illness. Served in the Army during WWII on YANK, was a Vice President of This Week Magazine and the McCall Printing Co. and retired from the Reader's Digest in 1984. Survived by his wife, Dorothy, a daughter, Nancy, and two gr
 LOEB - John L. Sr. His family would like to announce a memorial service out Temple Emony-El, Fifth avenue and 65 Street, 11 AM, Thursday, January 16.       
 AGOGLIA - Kenneth Francis, on Mon. January 6th. Beloved father, attorney, World War II Veteran. Survived by daughters Michele A. and Eileen D. and son Kenneth T. mother Loretta, sisters Gertrude and S. Eileen, and brother Emmet. Reposing Macken Mortuary, 516-766-3300. In lieu of flowers, pl
 BOYD - Walter J. Jr. of Summit, New Jersey, on January 6, 1997. Husband of Doris Boyd (nee Kuka), father of Robert of Orinda, CA. Richard of New Providence, NJ. John of Shaker Heights, OH and Barbara Yosaitis of McLean, VA, also survived by 7 grandchildren. A Funeral service will be held on
 BRODIN - Pierre, Dr. The Lycee Francais de New York notes with profound sorrow the death on January 1, 1997 of Dr. Pierre Brodin, its Director fo Studies for over 40 years and a senior member of its Board of Trustees. Dr. Brodin was an esteemed intellectual and a dedicated and kindly teache
 CAMPBELL - JoAnn E. January 6, 1997, after a long and courageous fight against Leukemia. Loving wife of Hector Ortiz, devoted mother of Evan Ortiz. Beloved daught of Lenore (Lee) and William, loving sister of Paul and his wife; Martha, loving sister and best friend of Donna, aunt of eleven,
 CARAPETYAN - Dr. Haig, died on December 15, 1996. He was born in Isphahan, Iran on November 16, 1904. He arrived in the USA in 1932. He received his medical degree in 1934 at the Univ. of Michigan, in Ann Arbor, MI and received his OB/GYN Degree in 1937 from Massachusetts Memorial Hospital 
 GOLDHAIR - Milton, 83, of White Plains and Palm Beach, January 6. Loving and most devoted husband of Elayne. Adored and cherished father. of Judy and Burt Resnick, and Richard and Debbie Goldhair. Dear brother of Lilyan Lipson. Beloved and adored grandfather of Scott, Jonathan and Sue and P
 HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Board, Staf, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Harry B. Helmsley, a longtime friend and member of theDirectors Emeriuti Council, and former member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. Harry served us with dedication
 LANE - Burton. Composer. At his home in Manhattan on the evening of January 5. Survived by his wife Lynn, his daughter Diana, and stepdaughters Elizabeth, Peggy, and Hillary Kaye. Funeral services Wednesday, at 11:15 AM. at Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam. In lieu of flowers, contribut
 LAPIDUS - Joseph. The officers leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Joseph Lapidus, who taught the value of tzedakah to his family. His son, Sidney, carries on the tradition as an outstanding leader and long-time friend of UJA-Federation, serving ont he board of dire
 LOWRY - John C. The Officers, Directors and employees of The Buckingham Research Group deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and long time Senior Vice-President, John Lowry. His intellectual prowess, good humor, and above all, his mature wisdom and sagacity will sorely be missed by all of
 MAYER - Jules, on January 6, 1997. Co-founder of Pearce and Mayer 1928. Graduate of Fordham University; law degree from NYU; painter, sculptor, philanthropist and storyteller extraordinaire. Married 45 years to actress/writer Helen Waren, father to Max Mayer, brother to Gerald and Gertrude.
 MURPHY - Eugene E. D.D.S. On January 3, 1997. Loving and devoted husband of Bernadette . Dr. Quentin M. Murphy, Malcolm S. Graham, and Robert J. Doherty mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Gene was the most dedicated of professionals whose demanding standards of practice wer
 PERSON - Hal. In loving memory of Hal who died January 6, 1997. He will be deeply missed by his wife Marian, children, grandchildren, family and many friends.       
 SCORSESE - Catherine, (nee Capa), on January 6th at Tisch Hospital, NYC. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Adored mother of Frank and Martin. Cherished grandmother of Frank Jr. Christopher, Lisa, Catherine, and Domenica. Great-grandmother of Liliana. Affectionate sister of Joseph Cappa and 
 SULLIVANT - Norris J. On January 6, 1997 at 74 years of age. Native of Pine Bluff, AR. and Bronx, NY. Highly decorated veteran of World War II (ETO) and the Korean War. Academic Facilities Manager, Maintenance and Operations, NYU where he was a loyal employee for over 40 years. Devoted husb
 SUMERS - John. Members of the Board of Directors and the Medical Staff of The Parkway Hospital note with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, John Sumers. MD, on January 3, 1997. A founding member of The Parkway Hospital, former Chairman of the radiology department, and pa
 Birny J. Mason Jr., who led the Union Carbide Corporation during the 1960's, died Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y., of complications from cancer, his wife said. He was 87. Union Carbide, which today ranks solidly among the nation's 500 largest industrial companies, was a sprawling co
 Rear Adm. Irve Charles Le Moyne, the nation's highest-ranking Navy Seal and a founder of the United States military joint special operations command, died on Saturday in the San Diego Hospice. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said his brother James Le Moyne of Miami. In a 35
 BOYD - Walter J. Jr. of Summit, New Jersey, on January 6, 1997. Husband of Doris Boyd (nee Kuka), father of Robert, Richard, John, and Barbara Yosaitis, also survived by seven grandchildren. A Funderal service will be held on Friday, January 10, 1997 at 11:00 AM from St. John's Lutheran Chu
 BRODIN - Pierre Eugene, 87, on 1 January 1997 in New York, NY. Beloved husband of Dorothy Rothschild Brodin for 48 years. Father of Alain Brodin of Remalard, France. Dr. Brodin was an internationally known teacher, author, and literary critic who played a crucial role in Franco-American stu
 BURKE - James B. On January 6, 1997. In Haverford, PA. Survived by his wife, Muriel; his son Gilman of New York; his daughter Kate Burke Wood of Princeton, NJ; 3 stepchildren, Simon Atkinson, David Atkinson and Judy Atkinson May, all of England: 7 grandchildren, six step-grandchildren and 5
 EMANUEL - Edward Paul, Immigration judge, on January 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Dorothy, devoted father of Richard (Lois) and Ronnie Tilles. Cherished brother of Helen and J. Mitchell Rosenberg. Devoted grandfather of Emily, Ted, Nancy and Comen. Loved and admired by his many associates an
 GINSBERG - Edward. The American Friends of the Hebrew University deeply mourn the passing of Edward Ginsberg of Cleveland, who was well known for his support of Israeli and Jewish causes in Cleveland and around the world. He was a Founder of The Hebrew University, where he provided generous
 GOLD - Stanley L. January 7, 1997, of Somers, NY. Husband of Nancy. Father of Gregory, Malcolm and Jessica Gold. Memorial service at the Katonah Memorial House on Friday at 3 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may made to the King House Restoration Fund, PO Bx 337, Katonah
 GOLDHAIR - Milton, 83, of White Plains and Palm Beach, January 6. Loying and most devoted husband of Elayne. Adored and cherished father of Judy and Burt Resnick, and Richard and Debbie Goldhair. Dear brother of Lilyan Lipson. Beloved and adored grandfather of Scott, Jonathan and Sue, and P
 HELMSLEY - Harry B. On behalf of the partners and staff at Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. we wish to express our heartfelt sorrow at the passing of a true legend, Harry B. Helmsley, who trhough his profession and philanthropic accomplishments, has forever left his imprint on our indust
 HEYMAN - Sam, on Jan. 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Rachel and Daniel, grandfather of Tevya, Caleb and Hannah, and brother of Helen Druse. Owned Sam's Hardware on Columbus Ave. for twenty years, later a writer. Funeral January 9 at 10:30 at Plaza, Amsterdam and 91st Street. 
 LOEB - John Langeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiara, Ambassador John Lanegloth Loeb, Jr. Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear brot
 LOHSE - Roland Henry, 74, beloved husband of Margaret M. (nee Kirk), died January 7, 1997. Also survived by Helen and Gus Beiscacher, Eileen and Robert Cordo, 14 nieces and nephews, grand nieces and nephews, and great grand nieces and nephews. Retired Assistant Vice President of Citibank, N
 LOWRY - John C. on January 3, 1997. A memorial service will be held on Friday, at 121:15 AM. at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LOWRY - John C. The Officers, Directors and employees of The Buckingham Research Group deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and lon
 MASON - Bimy, Jr. 87, on January 5, 1997, at his home in Rye, NY. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Smith (nee Brownson), father of Jerome A. of New York City, and grandfather of Herome A. Jr. and Elizabeth F. Retired Chairman of Union Carbide Corporation after nearly 40 years of service (1932-1
 MAYER - Jules, on January 6, 1997. Co-founder of Pearce and Mayer 1928. Graduate of Fordham University; law degree from NYU; painter, sculptor, philantrhopist and storyteller extraordinaire. Married 45 years to actress/writer Helen Waren, father to Max Mayer, brother to Gerald and Gertrude.
 MURPHY - Eugene F. The Board of Directors of East End Hospice note with great of Gene Murphy, devoted husband to dear friend and advisor Bernadette and brother of Hospice volunteers and patrons Pat and Wes Lowd. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family, friends to colleagues.  W. Michae
 PAGE - Mark. Formerly of Great Neck, New York, now of Myrtle Beach, SC. died on Tues. Jan. 7, 1997, after a long and valiant struggle with Alzheimers Disease. He was a versatile and talented design engineer. He is survived by his loving wife, Stella Hope Page and his daughters, Heather Harr
 PHILLIPS - Sheldon. Loving and devoted husband of Rita. Adored father of Marsha and Michael Lipman, Carol and Todd Malejan. Loving Papa of Brian, Melissa, Danielle and Jenna. Brother of Selma Lapedes and Alan and Joyce DeLemos. Dear uncle. Founder and partner of Phillips, Gold & Co. Loyal a
 POZIND - Lev. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Devoted nephew, cousin and friend. His strong, dedicated, creative mind will be sorely missed. His lust for life was loved by all. Funeral services 11:30 AM. today at Schwartz Brothers/Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 76th Road at Queens Boulevard, Forest
 SPALDING - Hobart A. Tuesday, Jan. 7, 1997, Hobart A. Spalding, former President of the Opera Society of Washington. Husband of Constance L. Spalding. Father of Katharine Spalding Cunningham and Hobart A. Spalding, Jr. of NYC and Joan Spalding of Aspen, CO. Grandfather of Sasha Anawait and 
 STRACHAN - Stanley (Stan), founder and publisher of the National Mortgage News, January 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Tobyann and father of Hillary. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM of ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment New Montefiore Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, donat
 Dr. Matthew Warpick, a general-practice physician who saw his first patient in 1925 and then spent seven decades ministering to the poor and working people of Harlem, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 95 and had seen his last patient, a man suf
 Melvin Calvin, a biochemist who detected the crucial phase of photosynthesis that now bears his name and won him a Nobel Prize in 1961, died on Wednesday at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85. His health had been declining for several years, officials at the Universit
 BRODIN - Pierre Eugene, 87, on 1 January 1997 in New York, NY. Beloved husband of Dorothy Rothschild Brodin for 48 years. Father of Alain Brodin of Remalard, France. Dr. Brodin was an internationally known teacher, author, and literary critic who played a crucial role in Franco-American stu
 DEANE - H. Tenison, 82, a resident of Etna, NH, died December 25 at his winter home in Vero Beach, FL. Mr. Deane began his professional career at Montgomery Ward and J.C. Penney Companies. In 1960, he became president of the McCampbell Co and later its Chairman. Mr. Deane served on the Boar
 GLIDDEN - Robert D. of Scotch Plains, NJ on Wednesday, January 8, 1997. Founder and Chairman of Trebor, Inc. Survived by his wife of 55 years, Anna Jamison Glidden. Father of Maryann Bokor, Robert D. Glidden, Jr. Nancy Nucci, and Donald Glidden. Brother of Elmer Glidden and Barbara Dwyer. A
 GOLDHAIR - Milton. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknoledges with sadness the passing of Milton Goldhair, beloved father of Judith Resnick and father-in-law of Burton Resnick, an esteemed member of our Board of Trustees and Chairman of The Board of the Albert Einstein College
 HARMON - Charles Myron, Jr. Age 62, of West Palm Beach, FL. Died January 8, 1997. Lived in West Palm Beach since 1988, coming from New Vernon, NJ. He maintained a summer residence in Chester, NJ since 1990. Born in Greenville, SC. Raised in Dunedin, FL. Mr. Harmon joined Goldman, Sachs & Co
 HELMSLEY - Harry B. On behalf of the partners and staff at Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. we wish to express our heartfelt sorrow at the passing of a true legend, Harry B. Helmsley, who through his profession and philanthropic accomplishments, has forever left his imprint on our indust
 LOEB - John Longeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiaro, Ambassador John Langeloth Loeb, Jr. Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear brot
 LOWRY - John C. The Officers, Directors and employees of The Buckingham Research Group deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and long time Senior Vice-President, John Lowry. His intellectual prowess, good humor, and above all, his mature wisdom and sagacity will sorely be missed by all of
 McCourt - Dermott. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of Dermott McCourt, whose care of our family made such a difference in our lives and brightened countless days. His standards of excellence, dignity and wit improved us all. We shall miss him, but his decency and kindess are h
 MOORE - James Alanson, M.D. On January 5, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor MacLeon Moore. Loving father of Joan (Mrs. Nicholas Biddle, Jr.) of Charlotteville, Va; Eleanor (Mrs. Richard J. Sterme) of N.Y. N.Y. and James Douglas MacLead Moore of Salem, NJ. Grandfather of Virginia, Ba
 NAYLOR - Roger Wayne, of New York City, formerly of Burlington, NJ, on Jan 5, 1997, age 58. Clinical Psychologist for the Youth Counseling Service of Manhattan for twenty years. Survived by his uncle and aunt, William B. and Mickey Brown, of Mt. Holly, NJ, his cousins, Elsie Shestani, Willi
 OPPENHEIMER - Peter. On January 7, 1997, in Walnut Creek, CA. Beloved husband of Muriel Wolfson Oppenheimer. Devoted father of Michael, David, and Amy Oppenheimer. Loving father-in-law of Donna Tuths, Marcy Kates, and Jennifer Krebs. Adored grandfather of Alexander and Joel DiGiorgio, Harry
 STRICKER - Sidney G. Jr. Died Tuesday evening, January 7, after an illness of several months and a life of 75 years filled with love and irrepressible enthusiasm - for his wife Lesley, and son Rob; for his work; for his sisters, brother, nephews, nieces, loyal colleagues and innumerable fri
 WEINSTEIN - Walter H. At age 92. Married for 63 years to Anita J. Weinstein (nee Fried). Died on Jan. 8. In addition to his wife he is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Alexander Mendelsohn; two grandchildren, Wendy and Geogrey Alexander; a sister, isabelle Goldenson and a brother, Harold.   
 Peter Cain, a painter whose images of disturbingly truncated cars contributed to the revival of realism among younger artists, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Greenwich Village. He was 37 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Cain had been in a coma since Jan. 2
 Pierre Eugene Brodin, an author, teacher and literary critic who served as a conservator of French culture and Franco-American scholarship in New York City during World War II, died on Jan. 1 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Brodin, who was
 Ralph L. Nelson, an innovative Queens College professor who helped harness the science of getting to illuminate the practice of giving, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 70 and widely regarded as a father of the economic study of philanthropy. His family said the 
 Sandor Vegh, a violinist and conductor whose performances of Mozart, Bach and early 20th-century works were both elegant and deeply felt, died on Monday at a hospital in Freilassing, Germany, near Salzburg, Austria. He was 91 and lived in Salzburg. As the director of the Camerata Ac
 Stanley K. Strachan, a financial journalist who came to prominence by exposing fraud and mismanagement in the unfolding savings and loan crisis of the 1980's, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a
 Winston Ross, a supporting actor and singer who appeared on Broadway and with touring companies throughout the country, died on Nov. 26 in a nursing home near Montrose, Pa. He was 84 and lived in Rush Township, Pa. Born in Manhattan into a musical-theatrical family, John Winston Ros
 Dr. C. Elton Cahow, a professor of surgery at Yale University School of Medicine who was credited with advanced techniques in gastrointestinal procedures, died on Thursday at his home in Branford, Conn. He was 65. He died after a brief illness, his family said. At his death,
 Jesse White, a character actor who appeared in scores of film and stage productions but earned universal recognition in a television commercial as the Maytag repairman whose phone never rings, died on Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 79. Mr. White was s
 BARWELL - Basil B. 81, of Sun City, AZ, died on January 6, 1997 at his home at a heart attack. Born in London, England, he became a naturalized citizen and lived and worked in West Hartford, CT for 30 years. In 1960 he became Executive Vice President of Culbro Corporation in New York City, 
 BRODIN - Pierre Eugene, 87, on 1 January 1997 in New York, NY. Beloved husband of Dorothy Rothschild Brodin for 48 years. Father of Alain Brodin of Remalard, France. Dr. Brodin was an internationally known teacher, author, and literary critic who played a crucial role in Franco-American stu
 BUCKLEY - Peter Haqys. Contributions in his memory may be sent to Princeton University, Recording Secretary, Box 140, Princeton, NJ 08544 or Repertorio Espanol, 138 East 27th Street, NYC 10016.       
 GABEL, Emil, 79, of Fairlawn, NJ and Delray Beach, FL. passed away at his home in Delray Beach, FL. on Jan. 9, 1997. He is survived by his devoted wife Helen, loving daugther Lissa, and son-in-law John, of Holicon, PA, son Bruce of Wayne, NJ, two granddaughters, sisters Pearl Goldfarb and D
 GLIDDEN - Robert D. of Scotch Plains, NJ on Wednesday, January 8, 1997. Founder and Chairman of Trebor, Inc. Survived by his wife of 55 years, Anna Jamison Glidden. Father of Maryann Bokor, Robert D. Glidden, Jr. Nancy Nucci, and donald Glidden. Brother of Elmer Glidden adn Barbara Dwyer. A
 HALPERN - Seymour, on January 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara, cherished uncle of Barbara Goodman, Leslie Schwartz and Stephanie Hecht. Also survived by his father-in-law Edward Olsen of NY and his brother-in-law Edward Olsen of CA. Services Sunday, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 S
 JONES - Robert C. Of Breezy Point, NY died peacefully at home with his family on January 10, 1997. Beloved and devoted husband of Bridget Mary (Betty) nee Talbot. Devoted father of Rev. Robert Jones, CSSR, Debra Ryan, Gerard, Nancy Wynne and Patrice. Dear father-in-law of Robert T. Ryan, De
 LOEB - John Langeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiara, Ambassador John Longeloth Loeb, Jr. Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear brot
 MOORE - James Alanson, M.D. On January 5, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor MacLead Moore. Loving father of Joan (Mrs. Nicholas Biddle, Jr.) of Charlottesville, Va; Eleanor (Mrs. Richard J. Sterne) of NY, N.Y. and James Douglas MacLead Moore of Salem, NJ. Grandfather of Virginia, Ba
 NUSSBAUM - Dr. Harvey E. of South Orange, New Jersey, on Thursday, January 9, 1997; beloved husband of the late Barbara (nee Comando); devoted father of Dr. Peter Nussbaum and Margaret Nussbaum Lederer; dear father-in-law of Murie Nussbaum and Bertram Lederer; loving brother of Rita Posner;
 RANLET - Robert, Jr. Son of the late Robert Ranlet and Netta Ranlet of Rochester, NY at the age of 92, on December 22, 1996 after a short illness. He is survived by his beloved wife of 67 years, Suzanne Hanckel Ranlet. A graduate of the University of Virginia in 1927 and the Harvard Busines
 SAUL - Fay. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Devoted mother of Dr. Richard Saul and his wife Renee. Cherished grandmother of Hillary and Philip Nimoityn, Kevin, Bentley, Meredith and John Marks. Great grandmother of 4. Services Sunday, 11AM, Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 WEINSTEIN - Walter H. At age 92. Married for 63 years to Anita J. Weinstein (nee Fried). Died on Jan. 8. Addition to his wife he is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Alexander Mendelsohn; two grandchildren, Wendy and Geoffrey Alexander; a sister, Isabelle Goldenson and a brother, Harold.     
 Seymour Halpern, a Queens Republican who served 14 years in the State Senate and 14 more in Congress, becoming a ranking member of the House Banking Committee before his retirement in 1973, died early yesterday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 83 and had moved to Southampton f
 Tom (Shorty) McWilliams, who played in the 1945 Army backfield with Felix (Doc) Blanchard and Glenn Davis, died Thursday in Meridian, Miss., his hometown. He was 70. He had been hospitalized for a month after hip-replacement surgery, and his family said he had several other medical 
 Dan Gooden, who underwent open-heart surgery the day after his son Dwight pitched a no-hitter last May, died at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla., on Friday night. He was 69. Dan Gooden had battled health problems for more than a decade. He had hip replacements, a heart problem a
 Frank Edwin Egler, a retired plant ecologist who turned his unkempt patch of northwestern Connecticut into a minutely studied habitat, died on Dec. 26 at a nursing home in North Canaan, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Norfolk, Conn. He suffered a brief illness, said his friend and coll
 Jeffrey St. John, a print and broadcast journalist and author known for his conservative views, died on Jan. 3 of lung cancer at his home in Randolph, Va., said his wife, Kathryn. He was 66. In a career that spanned four decades, Mr. St. John worked in radio and television as a talk
 MICHAELIS - Arnold J. The Actors' Fund of America mourns his loss and celebrates his life. Masterful interviewer. Fund historian and chronicler, Arnold inspired everyone with his love for life and the entertainment profession. We grieve with his son, Dana, daughter Lisa, their mother Marian
 ANSTENDIG, Sam, 72. Beloved husband of Rhoda (nee Gurian). Father of Lynne and Amie Gordon, and Hope and Stephen Freilich, brother of Murray and Harriet Anstendig, adored grandfather of Rachel, Jeffrey, Sheryl and Elliot Gordon, and Ross and Jamie Freilich. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'',
 BARBER - John Lee. January 5, 1997. Of Chesterbrook, PA. Formerly of Garden City, New York. Beloved husband of Helen Weaver Barber. Father of Lee, John and Robert Barber. Also survived by seven grandchildren and a sister, Joan K. Barber, M.D. Service and Interment were private, Contribution
 BRESSLER - Louis (Lymey). It is time to say goodbye to our very dear, lifelong friend. He gave something special to each of us and we each will miss him.  Leon and Claudia  Tillie  Joe and Irene       
 BROWN, Charles Dr. of Laws, passed away on January 1, 1997 in Boca Raton, FL. Survived by his wife Helen Brown and daughter Linda Brown.       
 CURTIS - Lt. Col. Cragin Croyle, OBE, of Tucker's Town, Bermuda, died suddenly on Jan. 3, 1997. He was 65. He is survived by his wife, Susan, and five children, Diana Price of Bellmore, NY; Harry Curtis of Summit, NJ; Laura Curtis of Boulder, CO; Cragin Curtis and Devon Curtis of Bermuda. C
 GLIDDEN - Robert D. of Scotch Plains, NJ on Wednesday, January 8, 1997. Founder and Chairman of Trebor, Inc. Survived by his wife of 55 years, Anna Jamison Glidden. Father of Maryann Bokor, Robert D. Glidden, Jr. Nancy Nucci and Donald Glidden. Brother of Elmer Glidden and Barbara Dwyer. Al
 GOLDBERG, Bertram Peter, of West Palm Beach, Florida. He leaves his beloved wife Elayne and brother Al Goldberg. For information ''The Riverside'', 76th Street, New York, New York.       
 GREENBERGER - Ben. A special man whom I've known most of my life. To Joan and Gerald and Harry, you were as fortunate to have hime as he was blessed to have you. My condolences to Alyse and Mark and Bruce.  Ira       
 HALPERIN - Charles. Loved husband, father, grandfather and friend. Survived by his wife Gladys. (Solomon), children Donald and Brenda Halperin and Susan and Allan Gorman, and his grandchildren Jeremy, Rebecca and Samuel, brothers Jack and Leo. Funeral services Monday, 10 AM, Boulevard-River
 HALPERN - Seymour, on January 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara, cherished uncle of Barbara Goodman, Leslie Schwartz and Stephanie Hecht. Also survived by his father-in-law Edward Olsen of NY and his brother-in-law Edward Olsen of CA. Services Sunday, 10:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St
 LOEB - John Langeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiara, Ambassador John Langeloth Loeb, Jr. Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear brot
 MOORE - James Alanson, M.D. Age 88, on January 5, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor MacLead Moore. Loving father of Joan (Mrs. Nicholas Biddle, Jr.) of Charlottesville, Va: Eleanor (Mrs. Richard J. Sterne) of N.Y. N.Y. and James Douglas MacLead Moore of Salem, NH. Grandfather of Vir
 NUSSBAUM - Dr. Harvey E. of South Orange, New Jersey, on Thursday, January 9, 1997; beloved husband of the late Barbara (nee Cornando); devoted father of Dr. Peter Nussbaum and Margaret Nussbaum lederer; dear father-in-law of Murie Nussbaum and Bertram Lederer; loving brother of Rita Posner
 PAINTER - James L. PhD., 52, on Jan. 9. After a courageous battle against leukemia. Survived by mother Ida S. Painter, sister Eleanor White, niece Jessica. Dearest companion to Inger Nennesmo. His wit and friendship will be missed. Services Monday, Redmond Funeral Home, Freeport, Pa.       
 SERALNICK - Mark, PhD, born December 26, 1954 passed away January 6, 1997 at the age of 42. Mark died in the loving arms of his wife Carrie and his mother Shirley. Mark, originally from Newburgh, New York, lived in Palatine, IL. Mark was the first American to graduate with a PhD from Tokyo 
 SHERWOOD - Peter W., 76, a consulting chemical engineer, died on Friday, January 3, at his home in White Plains, NY. He died of a heart attack. Prior to retiring in 1995, he was head of Peter Sherwood Associates, a New York based chemcial and economic consulting firm. Mr. Sherwood was the a
 SUTHERLAND - Edwin Van V. Age 83, Brigadler General, U.S. Army retired, on January 6, 1997, of cancer, in Rochester, Husband of the late Eleanor Austin and survived by his son Alec Sutherland; daughter Janet Guldbeck; and grandchildren Alexander and Eleanore Guldback. Memorial services in A
 WINDHEIM - Frederick J. Resident of Realeigh, NC. Beloved son of the late Jack and Adele Windheim of Larchmont, NY. Dear brother of Gilbert A. Windheim. He was a good and loyal friend to the many who loved him. He will be sadly missed. Memorial services will be held at Temple Israel of New 
 Roger Goeb, a composer whose works were admired for their deft coloration and inherent lyricism, died on Jan. 3 at the Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute in Queens. He was 82 and lived in Rockville Centre, L.I. Mr. Goeb composed prolifically for orchestra and chamber combinations, an
 Sidney G. Stricker Jr., a marketing and advertising executive and business consultant, died on Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a nephew, Simon Lazarus. As president of a division of Schenley Industries in the late 1950'
 W. Lane Barksdale, a microbiologist at New York University Medical Center who spent a lifetime studying bacterial infections like diphtheria and how to combat them, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan until he retired 10 years ago. He suf
 Edward Ginsberg, a Cleveland corporate and real-estate lawyer who was a prominent national fund-raiser for Jewish causes and Israel, died Jan. 3 at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz., where he was spending the winter. He was 79. He suffered a respiratory illness, his 
 GISHMAN - Benjamin David.Age 94, of Hewlett, NY, formerly of Liberty, NY, Charlotte, NC, Jacksonville, FL, and originally of Ulster Heights, NY farmland, died January 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Roe for 56 years, father of Eleanor Fishman, dear father-in-law of Stuart Fishman, brother of L
 LOEB - John Langeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiara, Ambassador John Langeloth Loeb, Jr. Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear brot
 MATTHEWS - Billy. Director, Stage Manager, Founding Member of the Society of Stage Directors & Choreographers died December 15, 1996 in London. His long directorial career included Broadway and more than 125 productions in Stock and Dinner Theater. Memorial donations may be made to Universi
 SCHIFF - Gertrude (nee Rosenman). Of Englishtown, NJ Wife of the late Milton, mother of Susan Feller and Morton Schiff. Cherished grandmother of eight and great-grandmother of one. Services were held Sunday at ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' Hackensack, NJ. Should friends desire, contributions may 
 SCHLESINGER - Milton H. M.D. Age 96, on january 11, 1997. Survived by his sons Edward and Robert; grandchildren Sarah, Nancy, Jason, Emily, Justin, Katherine; and seven great-granchildren. Services today, 2:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th street and Amsterdam Avenue. SCHLESINGER -
 WINDHEIM - Frederick J. Resident of Raleigh, NC. Beloved son of the late Jack and Adele Windheim of Larchmont, NY. Dear brother of Gilbert A. Windheim. He was a good and loyal friend to the many who loved him. He will be sadly missed. Memorial services will be held at Temple Israel of New R
 Sheldon Leonard, whose performances as snarling underworld figures in scores of Hollywood movies in the 1940's gave way to an equally prolific career producing and directing some of the most popular shows on television in the 60's, died on Friday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 
 Thomas James Prisco, a former metal worker and union chief who turned to social work to help children with handicaps as well as drug and alcohol abusers, died on Jan. 3 in St. Vincent's Hospital in West Brighton, S.I. He was 77 and lived in Dongan Hills, S.I. The cause was heart fai
 Albert Wohlstetter, an influential innovator in strategic nuclear doctrine who advised Democratic and Republican Administrations on military strategy, died on Friday in his home in the Laurel Canyon area of Los Angeles. He was 83. Mr. Wohlstetter's career as a strategic analyst was 
 Arnold Michaelis, a television producer and host who interviewed heads of state and other public figures during a long career on television and radio, died on Jan. 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. In the mid-1950's, when Mr. Michaelis was a producer for the Masterworks divisio
 Dr. Charles B. Huggins, who won a Nobel Prize for discoveries that helped open the era of drug therapy for cancer and provide underpinnings of the modern treatment of prostate and breast cancer, died on Sunday at his home in Chicago. He was 95 and had been in failing health for several year
 David J. Brodsky, who retired in 1993 as executive vice president of the Educational Testing Service, died on Sunday at the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. Mr. Brodsky, who made his home in Princeton, was 66. The cause of death was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, according to the service.
 Alexander Robertus Todd, a Scottish biochemist whose investigations of the building blocks of heredity earned him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1957, died on Friday in Cambridge, England, where he made his home. He was 89. He explored the structure of nucleic acids, the components
 Robert Bezilla, a national poll taker long affiliated with the Gallup Organization, died on Jan. 2 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58. The cause was arteriosclerotic heart disease, or hardening of the arteries, according to the Mather-Hodge Funeral Home in Princeton. M
 Robert Irsay, the owner of the National Football League's Indianapolis Colts and the man who moved the team out of Baltimore under the cover of darkness in 1984, died yesterday in Indianapolis. He was 73. The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, but he had been in 
 Harold Foote Gosnell, a political scientist who studied voter behavior, political machinations and the ingredients of success in American politics, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 100. Dr. Gosnell, the author of Presidential biographies and scores of articles, rep
 Ira Henry Freeman, a former reporter for The New York Times who wrote frequently about his travels after his retirement in 1961, died on Sunday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. He was 90 and lived in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. He was a native of New York City, and graduated from
 Dr. Oscar Auerbach, a pathologist who found the first evidence in human lung tissue of a link between cancer and smoking and is credited with discoveries that turned millions of people away from cigarettes, died yesterday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 92 
 FROST-Frederick William, age 85, of Thompson, Connecticut, died on January 15, 1997. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. F.W. Frost of San Francisco, California; husband of Joan Alice; father of Christopher and Jeremy. A graduate of Union College, Schenectady, New York in 1937, he was a Vice Presi
 KOLL-Richard T. Of Rocky River, OH and NY. On January 14, 1997. Loving husband of Luisa, father of Ann and John and brother of Don. His mind and humor will be greatly missed.       
 LOEB-John Langeloth. On December 8, 1996. Beloved husband of the late Frances Lehman Loeb. Loving father of Judith Loeb Chiara, Ambassador John Langeloth Loeb, Jr., Arthur Lehman Loeb, Ann Loeb Bronfman and Deborah Loeb Brice. Adored grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 24. Dear broth
 MANDEL-Herbert R. Devoted husband of Lorraine and the late Miriam. Beloved father and father-in-law of Dr. Steven and Melanie Mandel, Henry Mandel, Linda Mandel and Dr. Arnold Lewis, and Vinny and Caroline Macchirole. Cherished grandfather of Matthew Mandel; Olivia, Lauren, Rachael, and Sam
 MELLIN-John O. Distinguished minister of The First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York for over forty years, died Tuesday, January 14, in Orleans, MA. He is mourned by his wife Gloria; sons John, Jr., Peter, James and Timothy; the membership of the Church and the Village community. 
 PFLUEGER-Edward M. The members of the Board of Directors of 61 East 72nd Street Corp mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and neighbor whose years of dedicated service earned him the respect and affectionate regard of all who worked with him. His fellow directors express their sympa
 QUINN-Murray Charles, M.D. On January 15, 1997. Devoted and loving husband of Jeanne. Adored and adoring father of Gail and Kenny (deceased). Brother of the late Irwin. Cherished uncle, cousin, friend. Admired, respected and beloved physician for over 40 years. He was a man of integrity, de
 RICHARD-Walter Wooster (Philip), 77, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, passed away January 10, 1997. He was born in NYC, attended the Allen Stevenson School and Andover Academy, and served in the United States Navy in WWII. A long time resident of Havana, Cuba, he was the owner of Caribbean Electronic
 SUNA-Conrad, an Executive at Dean Witter Discover, died Wednesday Morning, Jan. 15 after a long battle with cancer. He was 62. He is survived by his wife, Selma, of New Milford, NJ, his only child, David, whom Mr. Suna was able to see graduate law school and start his career as a trial atto
 LOEB-John L. His family would like to announce a memorial service at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street, 11AM, Thursday, January 16.       
 Paul Kresh, an author, critic, record producer and broadcaster who specialized in spoken-word recordings, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. Steve Potofsky, a friend, said the cause was Parkinson's disease. Mr. Kresh produced dozens of rec
 Edward M. Pflueger, who bridged the volatile realm of industrial chemicals and the delicate world of porcelain, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. In 1954, Mr. Pflueger established the United States operations of Bayer A.G., the German chemical corporation. He wa
 Brig. Gen. Edwin Van Valkenberg Sutherland, a soldier and scholar who was one of the first Americans to start fighting the Germans in World War II and among the last to quit, died on Jan. 6 at a hospital in Rochester, N.Y. A longtime resident of Amagansett, L.I., he was 82 and had ended his
 Frank Angelo, a co-founder of MAC Cosmetics and a leader of an effort to raise money for people with AIDS, died on Sunday at Baptist Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 49 and lived in Toronto. The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, a spokeswoman for MAC, Susan Elliot, said. 
 George Handy, an arranger and composer with a distinctive, rich musical vocabulary, died on Jan. 8 at Sullivan County Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Elaine Lewis. Mr. Handy is best known for a set of albums h
 Jim Kensil, the former team president of the Jets who was once described by the former National Football League commissioner Pete Rozelle as ''my offensive and defensive coordinator'' for the indispensable way he ran the league's daily operation, died yesterday in Massapequa (L.I.) General 
 ABEL-Dr. Bert. The Alumni Society of the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn records with deep sorrow the passing of an esteemed colleague of long standing and extends condolences to his family. Dr. William Kahan, President Dr. Martin Bandler, Treasurer Diane Shapiro, Secretary       
 ABELES-Claus K. On Jan. 16, 1997. After a long illness at the age of 83. Beloved by his wife Marietta. Adored and cherished by his children, Suzy and Lincoln Boehm and Carol and Farrell Glasser. He will always be remembered as a special Popi to Geoff, Gaby and Greg Boehm, Lauren and Samanth
 BALLENTINE-George Newton, age 87, an internationally known gynecologist died on January 15, 1997 in Muncy, PA. He was best known for his instrument and equipment designs in the field of gynecology, including the Ballentine Hysterectomy Clamp. A graduate of Bucknell University and Cornell Un
 BARTHOLOMEO-Walter E. Regis High School mourns the loss of Walter E. Bartholomeo, affectionately known as ''The Boss''. Walter passed away on January 1, 1997, after serving the Regis community as Superintendent of Maintenance for 39 years. A memorial Mass will be celebrated at St. Ignatius 
 COHEN-George M. Devoted husband of Susan and loving father of Josh, Andrew, Greg and Allison. He was a senior parnter in the international law firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen and Hamilton. He graduated form Northwestern University in 1957 and Yale Law School in 1960. George was a wonderful fr
 COSBY-Ennis William. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall send our deepest condolences to Trustee Bill Cosby and his wife Camille on the tragic loss of their son, Ennis William Cosby. Our sympathies and thoughts are with your entire family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weil
 DENVIR-William Cremin, age 75, of Seabrook Island, SC, formerly of New York, died on Saturday, January 11, 1997 at his residence. He was the son of the late James Peter Denvir and Grace Cremin Denvir. Mr. Denvir was an interior designer associated with B. Altman's, NY. Services will be held
 DILL-David. After a brave battle succumbed to pancreatic cancer on Jan. 8, 1997. A valued colleague and friend of Glorious Food. We will miss his consummate professionalism, his wisdom, his wit. Our heartfelt condolences to his mother Georgia, sister Diana and brother Christopher. A memoria
 JABLONSKI-Dr. Robert Daniel, on January 14. Beloved husband of Carolyn. Loving father of Robert Jr., Maria and Terri. Adored father-in-law of Marie. Dearest grandfather of Lindsay. Son of Estelle and brother of John. Prominent orthodontist who served on the Board of Governors of the Dental 
 KENSIL-Jim. We record with great sorrow the passing of our former President, Jim Kensil and extend condolences and sympathy to his entire family. New York Jets       
 MANN-John J., died in Lenox, MA, on January 16, 1997. Partner with Jaros Baum & Bolles, retiring in 1990. He leaves his wife, Ruth Bergmann Mann, and two sons, James and Robert. Wellington Funeral Home, Pittsfield, MA.       
 MANN-Stanley D. Beloved husband of the late Ruth and devoted father of the late Celia. Stanley is survived by his wife Lucille and son, Dr. Samuel Mann. Graveside services, Friday, 1 PM, at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.       
 PFLUEGER-Edward M. Age 91, January 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Powers Pflueger. Survived by several nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday, January 18 and Sunday, January 19, 3-5PM. Services and interment private. Memo
 SPEER-Bert. The Board of Directors of the Epilepsy Foundation of Long Island mourn the passing of their colleague and long time Board member, whose years of dedicated service and leardership contributed greatly to the success of the organization. His fellow directors express their sympathy 
 STEIN-Michael. Zabar's & Company notes with great sorrow the passing of Michael Stein. We respected him as our accountant and cherished him as our friend. He will be greatly missed. Saul Zabar Stanley Zabar and the employees of Zabar's       
 ZUCKER-Jerome R., D.D.S., Beloved Husband of Barbara (Reichstein). Loving father of David and Arlene Zucker, Geanene and Jaron Rejtig. Cherished Grandpa of Seth and Benjamin Zucker and Jill Rejtig. Devoted brother of Sandy and Jack Biegel, Rosalie and Stephen Tenenbaum. Beloved son of the L
 WEISS-Emmanuel A. Dearest Manny, it is 2 long years of your departure and my life is incomplete without you, but the memory of your smiles, laughter and love fills my heart. ''When a good man dies, his goodness does not perish''. With My Love Forever, Vera       
 The Rev. Dr. Salvador Ferigle,  who nearly 50 years ago brought the  conservative Roman Catholic movement Opus Dei to the United States from his native Spain, died on Jan. 9 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 73 and lived at Elmbrook University Center, Opus Dei's st
 Douglas Greenwald, the retired chief of economics for the publications unit of the McGraw-Hill Companies and editor in chief of the McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Economics, died Wednesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, Mickey Janis-
 ABEL-Bert, M.D. We note with sorrow the passing of a highly respected colleague. As a Founding Physician of Central General Hospital (North Shore University Hospital at Plainview) he served our community members with skill and compassion. This dedicated humanitarian will be sorely missed. O
 COSBY-Ennis William. The City College of New York mourns the tragic loss of Ennis William Cosby. On behalf of the students, faculty, staff and alumni of CCNY, I wish to extend my heartfelt condolences to Dr. William Cosby, Jr., his wife Camille and their family. Yolanda T. Moses, President 
 DILL-David. After a brave battle succumbed to pancreatic cancer on Jan. 8, 1997. A valued colleague and friend of Glorious Food. We will miss his consummate professionalism, his wisdom, his wit. Our heartfelt condolences to his mother Georgia, sister Diana and brother Christopher. A memoria
 KAUFMANN-Theodore, 87, of Southbury, CT., died January 15 at his home. He was husband of the late Johanna (Brod) Kaufmann. He retired in 1974 as Chairman of the Board of General Cigar Co. in NYC. Beloved father of Tony Kaufmann of Redding, CT., and Christine Kaufmann of NYC, and grandfather
 KAZDAN-Samuel, D.D.S. January 15. Devoted brother of the late Aralee. Service Sunday, 10:30 AM ''Plaza Memorial Chapel'', 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. KAZDAN-Samuel, DDS. We, his friends, mourn the passing of a kindly, fair, fun person and a passionate history scholar, who was 
 KENSIL-Jim. We record with great sorrow the passing of our former President, Jim Kensil and extend condolences and sympathy to his entire family. New York Jets       
 PFLUEGER-Edward M. Age 91, January 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Powers Pflueger. Survived by several nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday, January 18 and Sunday, January 19, 3-5PM. Services and interment private. Memo
 SOLOMON-Arthur J. Age 85, on January 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Blanche, loving father of Gregg, and Lisa (Steve) Liebman, dear brother of Gloria Miller and Diana (Seymour) Steiger. He engaged in the practice of law for 57 years, retiring at 80. We shall deeply miss his charm, his humor, 
 TEMMER-Georges M. Born April 10, 1922, Vienna. Died January 12, 1997, Princeton, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Sylvia, and loving step-father to Julianna Mastroserio, Jenni Spencer and Edward Twerdahl IV, and grandfather to five. He was a professor of Nuclear Physics at Rutgers for 29 year
 ANGELO-Frank. After being admitted to a Florida hospital for routine surgery on Tuesday, January 7, 1997, Frank Angelo suffered complications, which led to a cardiac arrest. With family and friends at his side, he passed away on the evening of Sunday, January 12, 1997. Frank's passion for p
 Dr. James B. Pritchard, who, armed with trowel and broom, dusted off relics of lost biblical villages and then painted popular word portraits of ancient lives for a global audience, died on Jan. 1 at Bryn Mawr Terrace Nursing Home near Philadelphia. He was 87 and lived in Haverford, Pa.    
 ANGELO-Frank. God's Love We Deliver honors the memory of our friend Frank Angelo, who died on Jan. 12. Frank was a co-founder of MAC Cosmetics, and an extraordinary supporter of God's Love We Deliver's free meal delivery service for homebound people with AIDS. He will long be remembered for
 BARRATT-BROWN-Hilary Grover. Age 71, resident of Pollensa, Mallorca, died January 10, 1997, in NYC. He was the son of the late Alfred and Eileen Barratt-Brown of Oxford, England. A graduate of Christ's College, Cambridge, he became associated with the World Federation of United Nations Asso
 BRODER-Maurice L., of Clearwater, Florida, on Thursday January 16. Beloved and loving husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his wife of fifty-one years, Alice Buchdahl Broder, children Cali and Larry Tamarkin, and Janice and Tom Burne, and grandchildren Eric and Jed Tamarkin and Jess
 BURKE-James B. On January 6, 1997, in Haverford, PA. Survived by his wife, Muriel; his son Gilman of New York; his daughter Kate Burke Wood of Princeton, New Jersey; 3 step-children, Simon Atkinson, David Atkinson and Judy Atkinson Moy, all of England; 7 grandchildren, six step-grandchildre
 COSBY-Ennis William. The New York State Nurses Association of Jewish Home Hospital extends deepest sympathy to his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Cosby. A bright star has fallen too soon. Doris E. Reese, RN, Chairperson Shirley White, RN Joyce Mitchell, RN The Executive Committee       
 DEMAS-Dr. Nicholas Constantine. On January 8, 1997, in Amherst, MA. Formerly of Stuyvesant Town and Mount Kisco. Age 87. Practiced dentistry in New York for forty-six years. Husband of the late Electra Guizot Demas. Survived by his daughter, Corinne Demas Bliss of Amherst and grandchildren 
 DILL-David. After a brave battle succumbed to pancreatic cancer on Jan. 8, 1997. A valued colleague and friend of Glorious Food. We will miss his consummate professionalism, his wisdom, his wit. Our heartfelt condolences to his mother Georgia, sister Diana and brother Christopher. A memoria
 FEGAN-Matthew William. Age 94. Formerly of Malverne, NY and Lakewood, New Jersey. Died January 15, 1997 in Boca Raton, Fla. Ret. Metropolitan Life Insurance. Married November 23, 1929 to his beloved and devoted wife Ethel (nee Brown) who predeceased him. On March 10, 1979 he married his dea
 GREEN-Samuel H., Esq., passed away peacefully in Boston on January 17 after a lengthy illness borne with courage and dignity. He was the beloved husband of the late Freda Kaplan Green, (March 25, 1996). He is survived by his devoted and cherished children and grandchildren, Jane (and the la
 HAYES-Sadler. On January 18, 1997, in NYC. Born in Charlotte, NC, on December 20, 1910, he attended the University of North Carolina and in 1934 he became a resident of NYC. His entire career was in the life insurance business and for 25 years he was a member of the Million Dollar Round Tab
 KRAEHENBUEHL - David, 73, composer, teacher, pianist and music theorist died Jan. 3, 1997 in Trempealeau, Wisconsin. Known for founding the influential Yale ''Journal of Music Theory'', he is also widely appreciated by legions of piano teachers and their students for his hundreds of imagina
 LUFTIG-Oscar A. On December 3, 1996, following a sudden illness. Devoted husband of the late Lillian. Beloved father of Wendy, Elissa and Joel. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Matthew. Dear and loving brother to Claire, Jean, Gerry, Kalman, and the late Samuel and Joseph. Special friend
 NEUFFER-Robert P. January 15, 1997, of Pound Ridge, NY, formerly of Wilton, CT. Father of Elizabeth Anne Neuffer and Mark Howard Neuffer. Memorial service at the Pound Ridge Community Church, Pound Ridge, NY, Tuesday January 21, at 4:00PM, with reception immediately following at Conant Hall
 PFLUEGER-Edward M. Age 91, January 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Powers Pflueger. Survived by several nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Saturday, January 18 and Sunday, January 19, 3-5PM. Services and interment private. Memo
 WEISBERGER-Rabbi Ralph Moses, 84, died in Herzog Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel on December 20, 1996. Born in Poughkeepsie, NY, Rabbi Weisberger lived mainly in Poughkeepsie and New York City until he made Aliyah to Israel in 1969. He held dual citizenship. In the US he lived in Somerville, NJ
 WRIGHT-George William. September 26, 1902-January 18, 1996. He died peacefully in his sleep at home. Grace, his wife of 56 years had pre-deceased him. He was a biology teacher at Bayside H.S. where he also coached the track team. Survived by his son, George Vincent, nieces and nephews.     
 Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts who was the only candidate in the 1992 Democratic Presidential campaign to offer painful solutions to the nation's economic problems, died last night at a hospital in Boston. He was 55. Mr. Tsongas, who was hospitalized on Jan. 
 Philip Sperling, a bibliophile who in decades of haunting lower Manhattan's antiquarian bookstores gathered a trove of rare books from early 19th-century London, died on Jan. 9 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. He amassed some 400 volumes published by William
 Anthony Ravielli, a book illustrator and author, died on Jan. 9 at the Smith House Convalescent Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 86 and lived in Stamford. Mr. Ravielli began as a portrait painter before turning to illustration. He worked in advertising and did  magazine covers. His 
 Arthur Solomon, a New York businessman and philanthropist, died on Jan. 12 at his retirement home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 77 and a former resident of Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Solomon, a Bronx native, was
 Clyde W. Tombaugh, who earned a lasting place in the annals of astronomy by discovering Pluto in the far reaches of the solar system in 1930, died on Friday at his home in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 90. After a painstaking and tedious search of the heavens, Mr. Tombaugh detected the ni
 The Rev. Dr. William A. Tieck, a Colorado-born Methodist minister who found additional vocations in the Bronx as one of the borough's most active community leaders and its most venerated local historian, died last Monday at a hospital in Pittsfield, Mass., near his vacation home. He was 89 
 Gordon W. Burrows, a New York State Assemblyman for 20 years and a State Supreme Court justice for 7, died Jan. 10 at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and a lifelong resident of Yonkers. Mr. Burrows died of cardiac arrest, said his son, Craig A. Burro
 ALLEN-Herbert A. We at The Presbyterian Hospital, ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center, deeply mourn the death of Herbert A. Allen. Through his exemplary generosity, Mr. Allen made possible the creation of the community hospital that bears his family's name, The Allen Pavilion, which benefit
 HOLMES-John Greer. Died at his home in East Lyme, CT, Sunday morning, January 19. He was 84 and died peacefully in his sleep, said Lyn Austin of Music-Theatre Group. Mr. Holmes was Chairman of the Board of Music-Theatre Group for several years. He represented inspired leadership and will be
 MURPHY-Joseph F. Born April 4, 1915 in White Plains, NY. Died January 19, 1997 in Chatham, NJ. Mr. Murphy received his A.B. and law degrees from Fordham University. He served in the United States Navy from 1942 to 1946 in the Air Combat Intelligence division, receiving the Bronze Star, Comm
 NASARRE-Tom. June 9, 1937-January 17, 1997, in Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York City. Son of Carol Maupin, of McAllen, TX, and brother of Gene of Houston. Donations in his memory may be made to the Lupus Foundation of S.E. Florida, 6501 N. Federal Hwy., Boca Raton, FL 33487.       
 SILVA-Joseph. With great sorrow, we mark the loss of our cherished lifelong friend ''The Sliv Joe.'' Hooper, coach, ref. Gentleman. Lover of music and of people. Fighter 'till the end. Andrew Luchansky on behalf of his mumerous friends       
 SILVERSTEIN - Etta. National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, Colorado, offers deeply felt condolences to Larry A. Silverstein, National Jewish treasurer, and his family on the passing of his beloved mother and the family matriarch. We hope the Silverstein family takes solace i
 Paul E. Tsongas, the former Senator from Massachusetts who was the only candidate in the 1992 Democratic Presidential campaign to offer painful solutions to the nation's economic problems, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston. He was 55. Mr. Tsongas, who was hospitalized on Jan.
 Philip Sperling, a bibliophile who in decades of haunting lower Manhattan's antiquarian bookstores gathered a trove of rare books from early 19th-century London, died on Jan. 9 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. He amassed some 400 volumes published by William
 The Rev. John O. Mellin, a minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Greenwich Village from 1946 until he retired in 1989, died on Tuesday at the Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 75 and lived in Orleans, Mass. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Gloria. In 19
 Curt Flood, the All-Star center fielder for the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1960's who became a pioneering figure in the legal attack on baseball's reserve clause that foreshadowed the era of free agents, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 59. Flood died at the U.C.L.A. Medical Ce
 James Dickey, one of the nation's most distinguished modern poets and a critic, lecturer and teacher perhaps best known for his rugged novel ''Deliverance,'' died on Sunday in Columbia, S.C. He was 73. He died of complications of lung disease, The Associated Press reported. 
 Jose Ignacio Domecq Gonzalez, the aristocratic head of a Spanish wine-making family who was renowned as El Nariz (The Nose) for his ability to sniff out the nuances in the creation of his clan's highly regarded sherries, died on Wednesday at his home in Jerez de la Frontera, in southern Spa
 The Rev. Al Sharpton, a combative figure in New York's racial politics  for well over a decade, formally announced his candidacy for the Democratic mayoral nomination yesterday with a harsh attack on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and a focus on two highly contentious issues: requiring that poli
 ALLEN-Herbert. We at The Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, deeply mourn the death of Herbert Allen. Through his exemplary generosity, Mr. Allen made possible the creation of the community hospital that bears his family's name, The Allen Pavilion, which benefits th
 ANGELO-Frank. The clients, volunteers, Board, and staff of The Momentum AIDS Project mourn the death of our friend, Frank Angelo. As a co-founder of MAC Cosmetics and the MAC AIDS Fund, Frank was a dedicated supporter of Momentum's mission of providing free communal meals and counselling se
 BALLANCE-Webster E., 86, died Jan. 17, 1997 in Irvington, VA. Mr. Ballance was a retired Foreign Service Officer & member of the Diplomatic Corps. He is survived by 2 daughters, 3 grandchildren, & 5 great-grandchildren. Graveside services will be held in Berryville, VA., on Wednesday, at 1 
 BEN-ZION-(Weisberger) Rabbi Ralph Moses. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague in Israel. Ordained in 1940, he served pulpits in Philadelphia and North Carolina before making aliyah in 1969. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his brothers Israel and Cantor Irving an
 EIFERT-Alan F. A native of New Jersey died Sunday in Lake Worth, FL., at the age of 92. He was the founder of Eifert, French & Company, Inc., a 63 year old insurance firm located in Pelham, NY and Tenafly, NJ. Mr. Eifert began his business career in 1918 with the Bank of Manhattan (now Chas
 FRANCIS-Lewis Witherbee, of Duxbury, MA., formerly of Falmouth, MA., and Brooklyn Hts., on January 18, in his 95th year. Husband of the late Virginia Fuller, who died December 26. Son of the late Lewis and Sarah Francis. He graduated from St. Paul's School and Williams College and served du
 FRIEDMAN-Samuel J., of Irvington, NY. Loving husband of the Honorable Doris Toltz Friedman. Dear father of Ruth Lynn Friedman, Laura Beth Friedman, Jill Ann Friedman. Devoted grandfather of Steven, Megan, Lysha Wasserman, and Rebecca Zdanoff. Father-in-law of Barry Wasserman and Daniel Zdan
 HART-William B., Sr., 83, of Stonybrook Road, died Jan. 13, 1997, in Speare Memorial Hospital. Born in Ansonia, CT., the son of Peter and Catherine (Vensel) Hart. Beloved husband of Christine (Ballantyne) Hart. Father of William B. Hart, Jr. of South Berwick, ME., the Rev. Philip B. Hart of
 HOLMES-John Grier, aged 84 on Jan. 19, 1997 at East Lyme, CT. Beloved husband of Ruth Ellen Lord and four children, John G. Holmes, Jr., Antonia Tuck, Jenny Mirling, and Mini Boone, and nine grandchildren and five step grandchildren. Also survived by two sisters, Mary Blair Corning and Gwen
 KLEIN-Dr. Daniel. The Alumni Society of the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn records with deep sorrow the passing of an esteemed colleague of long standing and extends condolences to his family. Dr. William Kahan, President Dr. Martin Bandler, Treasurer Diane Shapiro, Secretary       
 MAUTNER-John Samuel. Jan. 15, 1997. Son of the late Jesse and Hilda, brother of J. Jay. A graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College, and professor of German language and literature at Columbia University until his illness caused him to retire. Since then, he devoted his life t
 MULLIN-William G., on January 16, in Oak View, CA. Physician, teacher, humanitarian and father is now spending eternity with his beloved wife, Barbara. He lived and practiced in Brooklyn for 75 years, and is survived by his children, Gordon, Brian and Elizabeth Ann, and his sister, Muriel. 
 MURPHY-Joseph F. Born April 4, 1915 in White Plains, NY. Died January 19, 1997 in Chatham, NJ. Mr. Murphy received his A.B. and law degrees from Fordham University. He served in the United States Navy from 1942 to 1946 in the Air Combat Intelligence division, receiving the Bronze Star, Comm
 NASARRE-Tom. June 9, 1937-January 17, 1997, in Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York City. Son of Carol Maupin, of McAllen, TX, and brother of Gene of Houston. Donations in his memory may be made to the Lupus Foundation of S.E. Florida, 6501 N. Federal Hwy., Boca Raton, FL 33487.       
 O'BRIEN-Robert, 60, of Little Egg Harbor, New Jersey, died Friday at Atlantic City Medical Center Mainland, Poamona. Mr. O'Brien worked for the New York Times for over twenty-nine years. He was an Advertising Makeup Assistant Manager. Mr. O'Brien was a veteran of the Marine Corps. He was bo
 SILVA-Joseph. With great sorrow, we mark the loss of our cherished lifelong friend ''The Sliv Joe.'' Hooper, coach, ref. Gentleman. Lover of music and of people. Fighter 'till the end. Andrew Luchansky on behalf of his numerous friends       
 TAFFEL-Alexander. ''A man beloved, a man elect of men.'' peacfully at home, on January 19, 1997. Principal of the Bronx High School of Science 1958-1978. Adored husband of Mildred Gottlieb Taffel, dear brother of Bess Taffel Boyle, Dr. Max Taffel and the late Dr. Abram Taffel. Loving uncle 
 ABBEY-Mary. On January 21, 1997, in her 87th year. Formerly of West Hempstead, N.Y. and Hallandale, Fla. Devoted wife of the late Sidney Abbey. Loving mother of son Arthur and his wife Diane and son Ken and his wife Hattie. Proud grandmother of Leslie, Jonathan and Michael. Caring sister of
 ALLEN-Herbert. On January 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Ethel. Dear father of Susan and Herbert. Adored grandfather of Cynthia, Bradley, Leslie, Karen, Christie, Herbert, Charles and Andrea. He is also survived by two sisters, Evelyn Henry and Marjorie Bisgood, a brother, Harold, and twelve 
 BERGER-Melvin. A pillar of strength and courage, a professor of understanding and kindness, a poet of love and compassion. Beloved father, husband, son and friend. Died January 20, at Long Island Jewish Hospital, after valiantly fighting a two year battle with cancer. He is survived by his 
 BRANDES-Bernard E. On Jan. 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen. Dear brother of Peter. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, January 23, at 11 AM. The family will receive friends on Thursday, January 23, at the Harmonie Club, 4 East 60 Street, from 5-7 P.
 COSBY-Ennis William. The Teachers College, Columbia University, community mourns the death of Ennis William Cosby, doctoral student. With his interest in helping children who had reading and learning disabilities, he had already made a difference in many young lives. He was the kind of stud
 HALPERN-Milton. Beloved husband of the late Muriel, devoted father of Nina and Allen, adored grandfather. Loving companion of Lillian Lehman. Services and interment were held Tuesday, January 21, 1997. Contributions may be made in his memory to the Cornell Medical Center, 525 East 68 Street
 HAYES-Sadler. The DillerQuaile School of Music mourns the passing of our friend Sadler Hayes, who founded the School's first outreach program in 1973, because he believed teaching mussic to young children would help them learn to read; tirelessly, he fund-raised for the program each succeed
 MAUTNER-John Samuel. Jan. 15, 1997. Son of the late Jesse and Hilda, brother of J. Jay. A graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College, and professor of German language and literature at Columbia University until his illness caused him to retire. Since then, he devoted his life t
 McVITY-Leonard Howard, died early Friday morning, January 17, 1997 at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. Born in Toronto, Canada on September 20, 1906, he graduated from the University of Toronto in June 1928. While still a student, he began his actuarial career as an Actuarial Clerk 
 MELLIN-John. The Board of Directors mourns the loss of Mr. John O. Mellin, one of the founders and presidents of the Association in Manhattan for Autistic Children. For over 20 years he was a mainstay of AMAC, fostering the growth of autistic children and their families. His pioneering work
 NASARRE-Tom. June 9, 1937-January 17, 1997, in Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York City. Son of Carol Maupin, of McAllen, TX, and brother of Gene of Houston. Donations in his memory may be made to the Lupus Foundation of S.E. Florida, 6501 N. Federal Hwy., Boca Raton, FL 33487.       
 RAINE-Harry G., 83, husband of Eliane, father of William and Henry Raine, died December 23, 1996, in South Charleston, Ohio, where he was interred. A memorial mass will celebrated at the Church of Saint Bartholomew, 6900 River Road, Bethesda, MD, Saturday, January 25, 1997 at 11 AM. Flowers
 SHALHOUB-Robert Elias, Sr. Of Basking Ridge, New Jersey, formerly of Linden, N.J. on Monday, January 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Mrs. Dorothy ''Doree'' A. (nee Kamienski) Shalhoub. Devoted father of Robert E. Shalhoub, Jr. Cherished brother of Miss Marcella Shalhoub and Mrs. Gloria Bitar. 
 TAFFEL-Alexander. The Alumni Association of the Bronx High School of Science marks with deep regret the passing of Dr. Alexander Taffel, the school's second principal, who served with distinction for two decades. His memory is honored by the institution he nurtured and the students whose li
 TEAGLE-Frank H., Jr. The Trustees, Residents and Staff of International House note with sorrow the passing of Frank H. Teagle, Jr., a friend and generous supporter of International House, on January 19, 1997. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife and family.       
 TOBIN-John E., of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, in his 73rd year, died Jan. 19, 1997. He was senior partner with the law firm Dorsey & Whitney, NYC. Beloved husband of Margaret (nee Swope). Loving father of John E. Jr., Brian D., Paul C. and the late Catherine Julia Tobin. Adoring grandfather of 9, devote
 WEINBERG-Leo. Died on January 19 in Los Angeles at age 88, from complications following an auto accident on November 3. Born in Warsaw, he was brought to the U.S. by his parents in 1921. During WW II he worked at the Navy Shipyard in Brooklyn, and then for the Post Office in New York until 
 ZINN-Richard Edwin (Ned) after a courageous battle on January 20, 1997. Beloved husband and best friend of 43 years to his wife Faith. Cherished father of Deborah, Lauren and Alfred Abel, adored Pop Pop of Jamie and Maddie. Dear brother of Pat and Kyra. A selfless gentle man, genuinely devo
 BREUER-Gustl. February 21, 1915-January 22, 1985. Remembered with love by his friends.       
 MOLFETAS-Dimitri. He filled our souls with beauty.       
 Sadler Hayes, a music-minded insurance agent who was a mainstay of the North Carolina Society in New York City for more than 60 years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86. His family said the cause was a heart attack. From the time he arrived in New York from 
 Col. Tom Parker, the strict, unorthodox and controversial manager who orchestrated Elvis Presley's career from 1955 until the singer's death in 1977, died yesterday at Valley Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 87. The cause was complications from a stroke, said Bruce Banke, a longti
 Herbert Allen Sr., the financier who with his brother Charles engineered some of the earliest corporate takeovers by Wall Street firms, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Allen, who dropped out of high school to become a stock trader, soon joined the investmen
 Joseph J. Loferski, a physicist and pioneer in the development of modern solar cells, died on Monday in Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 71 and lived in Providence. A spokeswoman for Brown University, where Dr. Loferski was an emeritus professor of engineering, said the ca
 BRANDES-Bernard E. On Jan. 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen. Dear brother of Peter. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, January 23, at 11 AM. The family will receive friends on Thursday, January 23, at the Harmonie Club, 4 East 60 Street, from 5-7 P.
 DAILEY-Richard G. Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York notes with sorrow the death of Richard G. Dailey, a life member and past president of this Society. Mr. Dailey served with devotion on the Board of Managers and held many other vital committee positions. Our heartfelt condole
 DEBS-Madge. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn with Chairman Emeritus Richard Debs over the loss of his mother Madge, and extend condolences to his entire family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Board Chairman Judith Arron, Executive Director       
 DEUTSCH-Irvin, M.D. On Jan. 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Freda, loving father of Dr. Laurence Deutsch of Ottowa, Canada, Nina Deutsch of Leonia, New Jersey, Mona Miller of Los Angeles, Calif. and Dr. Diane Thome of Seattle, WA. Proud grandfather of David, Derek, Lara, Thais, Marc and Christ
 FRIEDMAN-Samuel J. The partners and staff of Hall Dickler Kent Friedman & Wood mourn the loss of our long-time friend and partner, Samuel J. Friedman. His dedication to our firm and his love and caring for all his co-workers will never be forgotten. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wif
 GREENBERG-Irving Morris. On January 22 in New Brunswick at age 84. For many years, he was a commercial real estate broker, landholder, and investor. Born in Manhattan on May 23, 1912, he moved with his parents, Louis and Dora, to Etra, New Jersey, where he met and married Rose Sokolow, his 
 HOLMES-John Grier, age 84 on Jan. 19, 1997 at East Lyme, CT. Beloved husband of Ruth Ellen Lord and loving father of John G. Holmes, Jr., Antonia Tuck, Jenny Mirling, and Mimi Boone, and nine grandchildren and five step grandchildren. Also survived by two sisters, Mary Blair Corning and Gwe
 HUGHES-William. Age 83. Pianist, accompanist and vocal coach. Died in New York City, December 31, 1996. A Cleveland native, he attended the Cleveland Conservatory of Music and came to New York on a scholarship to continue his musical studies. A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and 
 LIPPINCOTT-Job H. On January 21, 1997 at the Cape Cod Rehabilitation Hospital in Sandwich, MA. Age 86. Formerly of Chatham, N.J. and Nantucket, MA, he leaves his wife Rosemond, daughter Sara, son Job, two grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Mr. Lippincott, a graduate of Princeton U
 MELLIN-John. The Board of Directors mourns the loss of Mr. John O. Mellin, one of the founders and presidents of the Association in Manhattan for Autistic Children. For over 20 years he was a mainstay of AMAC, fostering the growth of autistic children and their families. His pioneering work
 MEYER-William R., 47. Author and film historian, of natural causes at his home in Staten Island. Graduated 1967 from Pascack Hills H.S., Montvale, NJ; The New School for Social Research, BA, 1974; NY Univ., MA, 1976. Books include ''The Making of the Great Western'', ''The Warner Bros. Dire
 ODER-Irwin, 71, of Bay Shore, NY, on January 20, 1997. Professor Emeritus of Government at Dowling College, Oakdale, L.I. Devoted husband of Phyllis; beloved father of Danila and Norman; loyal brother of Sylvia Fischer. His honor and kindness live on. Service Friday, 12:15PM at I.J. Morris 
 PHILLIPS-John McQuiggan, 64, of Scarsdale, New York, died unexpectedly of a heart attack on January 19, in St. Bartholomew's, Guadeloupe (FWI). He was a graduate of the Phillips Exeter Academy, class of 1951, and of Yale Univ., class of 1955. At Yale he played guard on the varsity football 
 POMERANZ-Jonathan N. Husband of Marilyn, father of Jacques and Frank. Grandfather of Jeffrey and Sharon. Died on January 21, 1997 and was 88 years old. Funeral Services Friday, Jan. 24, 11 AM, Reconstructionist Synagogue of the North Shore, Plandome, N.Y. Nat lived in Hollywood, Fla. after 
 PRICE-Jerome, on January 21, 1997. Beloved husband of Sue, devoted son of May, and dear brother of Mimi. Adored father of Lesley and Rob, Nancy and Marty, and Pam and David. Cherished grandfather of Samantha and Elizabeth. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. PRICE-Jerome. 
 SCHULTZ-Dr. Irving. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Irving Schultz, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife Edna and family its deepest sympathy. Howard Friedberg, President Eric Segal, Secretary       
 ZINN-Richard Edwin (Ned) after a courageous battle on January 20, 1997. Beloved husband and best friend of 43 years to his wife Faith. Cherished father of Deborah, Lauren and Alfred Abel, adored Pop Pop of Jamie and Maddie. Dear brother of Pat and Kyra. A selfless gentle man, genuinely devo
 Saul B. Marantz, a pioneer in the development of high-fidelity audio components, died last Thursday at Somerset Medical Center in Somerville, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Bridgewater, N.J. A man of many parts -- photographer, classical guitarist, graphics designer, collector of Chine
 Kenneth Vivian Thimann, a leading botanist whose discoveries advanced the basic understanding of plant life, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 92. Dr. Thimann, a pioneer in plant physiology, was best known for describing how hormones control plant development. In 
 On Wednesday, Harvey Philip Dale, a respected but not famous New York law professor, had lunch with two friends in midtown. It was the day before everyone learned that he has had a secret life that involved giving away hundreds of millions of dollars of someone else's money. After o
 Stuart B. Kaufman, a University of Maryland history professor who edited the papers of the labor leader Samuel Gompers and played an instrumental role in setting up the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s historical archives, died on Sunday at his home in Garrett Park, Md. He was 54. He died of a heart
 Alexander Taffel, who spent two decades in a joyful scramble to stay a step ahead of some of the nation's brightest and most cocksure high school students, died on Jan. 19 at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 86 and retired in 1978 as the principal of the Bronx High Sch
 Glenn Walter Johnson Jr., an inventor who devised a pneumatic ankle brace that is now widely used in the treatment of ankle sprains, died on Thursday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 75 and lived in Summit. The cause was cancer, a step-daughter, Juliet McVicker, said.    
 BRODSKY-Philip C., on January 24, 1997 of cancer. Beloved and adored husband of Jeanne, cherished father and grandfather of sons Paul, Gabriel and Eugene, daughter-in-law Karen, children Nancy, Marc and Sue Lazarus and grandchildren Sascha, Kirsten, Anya, Kate, Emma, brother Nathan and sist
 LOEB-Philip. On January 24, 1997. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York City. Dear husband of Ronnie Eisman Loeb. Beloved father of Carla (Leonard) Feinkind, Beryl (David) Hoffman and Anita (John Rafkin) Levin. Adored grandfather of seven. Dear brother of Jack Loeb. Funeral Sunday, Januar
 MOTULSKY-Claus. Died Jan. 14, 1997, of a heart attack. Husband of Ursula; father of John, Michele and Dan. Memorial service on Jan. 27 at Yale Club, NY, 4:45 PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to International Center for the Disabled, 340 E 24, NYC.       
 Richard Berry, who wrote the legendary three-chord rock song ''Louie Louie'' died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in South-Central Los Angeles. He was 61. The cause was possible complications from an aneurysm, said John Kim, who was working with Mr. Berry on a film biography, T
 Henry Briggs Silsbee, a professor emeritus of physics at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, L.I., whose research centered on molecular beams and low-temperature physics, died on Jan. 15 at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Stony Brook and Malibu, Cal
 John Manly Eklund, who led the American Federation of Teachers in years of political and social upheaval, died on Jan. 11 at the Canterbury Gardens retirement community in Denver. He was 87 and most recently lived in Naples, Fla. Dr. Eklund was the national president of the teachers
 L. Metcalf Walling, a New Deal administrator to whom fell the thorny task of carrying out and enforcing novel concepts like the minimum wage in wartime, which critics predicted would lead to America's economic ruin, died on Tuesday at the Gifford Elder Care center in Randolph, Vt. He was 88
 CHAPIN-Earl, on January 21, 1997 in Greenfield, MA. Beloved husband of Lynne Rudie, father of Kenneth (and Ellen), Paul (and Janice), Julia (and Alcides Filho), grandfather of Sarah, Matthew and Sarah, Godfather of Ingrid Rudie. Earl had a long and illustrious career as a french horn player
 COLE-S. Mulford, January 24, in the 92nd year of his extraordinary life, at home in Palm Beach, FL. So loved by his wife of 64 years, Sylvia (Peanut), daughter and sonin-law Carolyn and Fred Shulman, son and daughter-in-law, Richard and Ellen Cole, 5 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren,
 DROOZ-Richard B., M.D. On January 24, 1997. Formerly of Albany, NY. Beloved husband of Miriam. Devoted psychoanalyst and physician, mentor and friend to many. His dedication and elegance touched all those who knew him. His death leaves a void that can never be filled. Services Sunday, 1:30 
 DRUCKER-Philip. On January 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Mitchel and Harvey. Adoring grandfather of Teddy and Katie and Lee. Dear father-in-law of Susan and Jeri. Founder of Drucker Associates Real Estate Co. and co-founder of Philmar Fabrics, Inc. His wonderful, w
 FARKAS-Louis Sr. The President, Board of Governors, and the New York Board of Overseers, administration, faculty, staff and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with deep sorrow the passing of Louis Farkas Sr., beloved fatherin-law of Rabbi Zahara Davidowitz-F
 LEGON-Ira R. on January 22, 1997, in Asheville, North Carolina. He was the former president of S. Appel and Company, the preeminent manufacturer of custom tailored uniforms in the United States. In his position, he was devoted to the success and prosperity of the uniform industry, of which 
 PETRUCELLI-Rocco Joseph II, M.D., born on September 20, 1943, deceased Jan. 24, 1997, medical historian and author of ''Medicine, An Illustration.'' Graduate of Yale College, M.D. magna cum laude; History of Medicine, Harvard Medical School. Dr. Petrucelli received Boylston Medical Society 
 SEACAT-Milvoy (Mel), died early morning January 22, of pulmonary failure. Mel was a medical sociologist, a professor at New York Medical College, a co-founder of Printique High-Fashion Fabrics and a dedicated shopper. Funeral and burial will be in Marion, IN. He is survived by his companion
 TEMEL-Max. Beloved husband of Hannah (Hanka). Devoted father of David and Cory, Charles and Judy, Sofia and Jay Maisler, George and Shana. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Brian, Aaron, Erica, Laura, Dan, Greg and Alex. Adored great-grandfather of Adam and Brandon. Funeral Service on Monday, a
 WEINRAUB-William C. L. Age 49, of Norcross, GA. Beloved husband of Anita Z. Devoted father of Stephanie and brother of Jerome. Graduate of Horace Mann School, Yale University, University of Massachusetts, he was an accomplished businessman, craftsman, musician, and raconteur. His passing le
 PERLBINDER-Arnold H. 11/20/28-1/28/94. He is with us, alive in our hearts. Perlbinder Family       
 Paul Chesley Hodges, the founding chairman of the radiology department at the University of Chicago Medical Center and inventor of diagnostic devices and methods, died on Dec. 27 at a nursing home in Green Bay, Wis. He was 103. Dr. Hodges caught the attention of the medical professi
 Rodney O. Felder, who was the last president of Finch College in New York City and later led Upsala College in East Orange, N.J., died Jan. 19 in Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Montauk, L.I, until 1994. The cause was Alzheimer's disease complicated by emphysema, said his bro
 Samuel J. Friedman, an executive partner of the New York law firm of Hall, Dickler, Kent, Friedman & Wood, died at his home in Great Barrington, Mass., last Sunday. He was 64. Mr. Friedman, who also lived in Irvington, N.Y., died of a heart attack, a daughter, Laura Beth Friedman, s
 Seth McCoy, a tenor known for his thoughtful performances in oratorios and orchestral concerts and also appeared in opera late in his career, died on Wednesday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 68 and lived in Pittsford, N.Y., a Rochester suburb. The cause was complic
 Thurlow Evans Tibbs Jr., a dealer in African-American art who donated about 30 paintings, sculptures, prints, photographs and drawings to the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington last year, died on Jan. 16 at his home in Washington. He was 44. The cause is undetermined, pending the
 Beverly Peer, the longtime bass player for Bobby Short, died on Jan. 16 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Christina Wyeth, Mr. Short's business manager. For more than three decades, Mr. Peer spent his even
 Donald A. E. Beer, who won a gold medal in rowing at the 1956 summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, and carried the Olympic torch  through Princeton, N.J., last June on its way to the summer Olympics in Atlanta, died on Saturday in a nursing home near Princeton. He was 61 and a longtime 
 It has been two months since Ed Wilson died at his home in Vestal, N.Y., and if the event has not been widely noticed beyond the Binghamton area, where he had been a working sculptor and art teacher, it may be because, like his art, Mr. Wilson's life did not always get the scrutiny it deser
 Joe Dominguez, a pioneering author and speaker in the Voluntary Simplicity movement, who urged Americans to relearn the lost art of saving money and to cut their profligate consumption, died of cancer on Jan. 11. He was 58. Mr. Dominguez and his partner, Vicki Robin, wrote ''Your Mo
 Joseph F. Murphy, who was Commissioner of Insurance in the Cabinet of Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey from 1982 to 1984 and was part of an effort to bring down the high auto insurance rates in the state, died on Jan. 19 at the Garden Terrace nursing home in Chatham, N.J. He was 81.       
 Keith Diamond, who produced and wrote songs for such singers as Billy Ocean, Michael Bolton, Donna Summer and Mick Jagger, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 46. The cause was a heart attack, said Lisa Barbaris, a spokeswoman for Mr. Diamond. Born in Trinidad, 
 Malcolm Pirnie Jr., a former chairman of the environmental consulting company Malcolm Pirnie Inc.  in White Plains, died on Jan. 18 in Winter Park, Fla. He was 79 and lived in Winter Park. The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the company said. Mr. Pirnie, who was c
 Nicholas Hinton, a Briton who was president of the International Crisis Group, a private, independent organization that seeks to help forestall  man-made disasters in unstable parts of the world and has been monitoring peace efforts in Bosnia, died last Monday while traveling in Croatia. He
 ARONOWITZ-Albert M. The attorneys and staff of the law firm of Aronowitz and Singer mourn the loss of Albert M. Aronowitz, Esq. He was a kind and gentle man and a father figure to us all. For almost 60 years he was a devoted lawyer, diligently representing his clients with skill and compass
 BRETL-John of Barrington, RI. Our friend, a gentleman for all seasons. Successful investment banker, accomplished artisan and sailor. His analytic mind, intellectual curiosity, keen eye and love of perfection were apparent in all he undertook. We will remember his love of family, warmth, wi
 DEAN-Sidney W., Jr. The family and friends of Sidney W. Dean, Jr., will always remember him with love as father, friend, mentor and exemplar of a life well lived. He departed this life January 24, at his home in Greenwich Village, age 91. A lifelong champion of civil liberties, active in th
 DROOZ-Richard B. The Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourns the passing of its longtime member and cherished colleague, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Harvey B. Bezahler, M.D., Pres Charles Goodstein, M.D., Secy DROOZ-Richard, M.D. His knowledge, wisdom, cour
 DUTTON-Aubrey Whiteley, age 86, of Brooklyn, NY, on January 25, 1997, in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Born on August 23, 1910 to Lawrence Amor Dutton and Eunice Holt (Whiteley) Dutton at Twin Oaks, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, on a farm owned by the Dutton famly since 1682. Resident of the Fl
 FREEMAN-Benjamin Walter, at age 86 on January 25, 1997 in Margate, FL after a long illness. Beloved husband of Claire for 57 beautiful years, father of Debra and Barry Goldman, and Lynn and David Pravda, doting and loving grandfather to Lisa, Heather, and William Goldman, and Jacqueline and
 GERBER-Irving A., D.D.S. A man of accomplishment and good humor, who excelled at everything he attempted-dentistry, musicianship, athletics and most of all fatherhood. Beloved husband of the late Paula, father of Marc and Terry, grandfather of Lauren Partridge and Michelle Gerber, greatgran
 KATZ-Percy. Of Greenwich, CT, on January 24, at the Greenwich Hospital. Husband of the late Blanche Landau Katz, with whom he will be buried in Scottsdale, AZ. Father of Gerald Katz of Pound Ridge, NY, and Lawrence Katz of Scottsdale, AZ. Brother of Estelle Glass and Frances Cohen, both of 
 O'CONNOR-Wilfred R. Judge of the Civil Court, former Director of the Legal Aid Society's Prison Legal Assistants' Program, and former Associate Attorney-In-Charge at the Queens Supreme Court Branch of the Legal Aid Society, on January 23, 1997 at Calvary Hospital. The Board, members and sta
 ROBINSON-Arthur, M.D., January 25, 1997 of Amityville, N.Y., formerly of Ozone Park, N.Y. Beloved husband of Gladys Robinson, devoted brother-in-law of Irene Robinson and Dorothy Stagg. Loving uncle of Barbara and Ronald Robinson, Joyce and Gerald Robinson, Elizabeth and Alan Shulman, Ruth 
 STEWART-Edward Sheldon, age 91, died January 21 after a long illness. Survived by wife of 43 years, Shirley, sister, Beatrice (Babbie), children Helen, Sheldon (Shelley), Anthony (Tony) and Francesca (Francie), 7 grandchildren (Shellie, Scott, Sean, Michael, Jenny, Peter and Jaryn), 2 great
 TEMEL-Max. The directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York extend sincerest condolences to Board Member Charles Temel on the death of his beloved father. May Charles and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, Pr
 WEINRAUB-William C. L. Age 49, of Norcross, GA. Beloved husband of Anita Z. Devoted father of Stephanie and brother of Jerome. Graduate of Horace Mann School, Yale University, University of Massachusetts, he was an accomplished businessman, craftsman, musician, and raconteur. His passing le
 Richard A. R. Pinkham, a retired New York advertising executive who was a member of the team that helped the National Broadcasting Company enter the era of network television, died last Sunday at Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 82 and had homes in Hobe Sound, Fla., and Rye, N
 Rear Adm. William Heald Groverman, a commander in World War II and the Korean War who became one of the leading cold war experts on anti-submarine warfare and Soviet naval forces, died on Dec. 25 at the Peninsula Hospital in Burlingame, Calif. He was 87 and lived in San Mateo, Calif.       
 John A. Griffin, an educator and a major figure in the civil rights movement in the South, died of pneumonia on Saturday at Piedmont Hospital here. He was 84 and lived in Atlanta. Dr. Griffin, long known as a gentle, conciliating figure in race relations, was a founder of the Southe
 Noel Keane, a lawyer who became a focus of deep affection and bitter debate for arranging surrogate motherhoods, including the one that led to the Baby M battle in 1986, died on Sunday at his home in Dearborn, Mich. He was 58. Mr. Keane's son Christopher, his partner in the firm of 
 ARONOWITZ-Albert. The East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue sorrowfully records the loss of its esteemed and beloved congregant. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Reuven Siegel, Rabbi Daniel Hirtenstein, President Lawrence E. Levine, Chairman, Board of Trustees       
 BEER-Donald, of Princeton, New Jersey, on January 25, 1997. The many friends and neighbors of Donald Beer mourn the loss of an Olympic gold-medal winner in 1956 and carrier of the flame in 1996, ringer of the bells at Trinity Church, builder of model trains at Christmas, player of fiddles a
 DEAN-Sidney W. Jr. The trustees and members of The City Club mourn the death of Sidney. He will be remembered as one of the Club's most outstanding trustees. During his nearly four decades of service, Sidyey served as both President and Chair. We will miss him. The Board of Trustees The Cit
 DROOZ-Richard, M.D. Passed on Friday, January 24th. Survived by his beloved wife, Miriam. Dr. Drooz, psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, will be remembered for his brilliance as an academician, clinician, teacher, mentor, and for his kind, generous spirit. He will be greatly missed. Neither he 
 DVORTZOFF-Dorothy Kaufman. Wife of the late Harry. Sister of Ruth Kaufman Berthold and sister-in-law of Arthur J. Berthold. Sister of the late Ethel G. Kaufman and Robert L. Kaufman. Aunt of David A. Berthold and his wife Nancy, and great-aunt of David, Anna, Michael and Madiline Berthold o
 MARKS-Gerald, January 27, 1997. The Board of Directors of the New York Sheet Music Society mourns the loss of our gentle, devoted member. Gerald, one of the last Tin Pan Alley giants, composer of ''All of Me,'' ''Is It True What They Say About Dixie,'' and 400 other songs will be missed, ad
 PITTARI-Anthony, on January 25, 1997. Beloved son of Bartolo and the late Anna. Loving brother of Edward and Nancy Gaudioso, and devoted uncle of five. Companion of Erich Hamner. Reposing at Denis S. O'Connor Funeral Home, 91-05 Beach Channel Drive, Rockaway Beach, New York. Mass of Christi
 SLIGH-Charles R., Jr. The Directors and Staff of the Deafness Research Foundation note with sorrow the passing on January 25th in Delray Beach, Fl, of its former Chairman, benefactor and loyal friend. Mr. Sligh was former Chairman of the Sligh Furniture Co. of Grand Rapids, MI and former Pr
 SPENCE-Mark E. January 23, 1997. Services were private, but his family will be accepting visitors at his apartment on February 1 from 1-4 P.M.       
 TEMEL-Max. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed board member, Charles Temel on the passing of his father. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Ex
 TOWNES-David C., age 74, on January 17 from complications from kidney failure. For over 35 years, he was a foreign tour guide, much in demand because of his proficiency in eleven languages. David's love and devotion to his friends especially those in recovery programs, will always be treasu
 Robert D. Kilpatrick, a former chairman and chief executive of the Cigna Corporation, one of the nation's largest insurance companies, died yesterday at Columbia-Henrico Doctor's Hospital in Richmond. He was 72 years old. Mr. Kilpatrick, who lived on a farm in Crozier, Va., outside 
 A. Richardson Goodlatte, the Transit Authority official who fought graffiti tooth and nail but found that eternal vigilance and a bit of elbow grease was all it took to keep subway cars more or less pristine even as similar measures kept them on the rails and out of the shop, died on Saturd
 Donald E. Stokes, a leading political scientist and former dean of Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, died on Sunday in a Philadelphia hospital. He was 69 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was acute leukemia, said Mary Caffrey, a s
 Gary Gilbert Fryer, a former counselor and press secretary to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and a special assistant to the Yale University president since 1993, died Monday at the Yale Health Services Center in New Haven. He was 45 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. The cause was non-Hodgkin's ly
 CHASIN-Philip. 87, on January 27. Beloved husband of the late Sarah, adored father of the late Gail, and of Mark and devoted fatherin-law of Roni of Short Hills, NJ and loving grandfather of Yale, Zachary and Alex. We miss him. Service private.       
 DEWART-Reverend Russell, 95, of Prides Crossing, MA, Rector Emeritus of St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Beverly, MA, on Jan. 21. Husband of Ann de D. (Stevenson) Dewart. Also survived by 7 children, Timothy of Beverly, Alan of Buffalo, NY, Brian of Ithica, NY, William (Ted) Dewart of Consho
 DIRAFFAELE-William F. (Pastor of Christ the King Church, Yonkers, NY) on Tuesday, Jan. 28, 1997. Beloved son of Anna (nee Pignatelli) and the late William DiRaffaele. Dear brother of Mrs. Nancy Hoffman. Brother-in-law of Gary Hoffman. Reposing at the Whalen & Ball Funeral Home, 168 Park Ave
 DROOZ-Richard B. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the passing of their longtime colleague and friend. His dedication as a clinician, teacher and colleague has earned him the respect of the alumni and all who knew him. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his fam
 DYER-Jack. It is with deep sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of HIAS note the untimely passing of Jack Dyer, the son-in-law of our esteemed Vice President and member of the Executive Committee, Bobbie Abrams. To Bobbie, his mother-inlaw, Carolyn, his wife, and to his ch
 GORODETZER - Philip, Jewish educator and Cantor. Served communities and congregations in Houston, Omaha, Rochester, Laurelton, Bayswater and Long Beach, NY. Beloved husband of Paula Kalish. Devoted father of Moshe and Yehudit Ganot, Harvey and Bonita Ganot, Leya and Dr. David Diamond. Addit
 HERZ-Fritz, Ph.D. Former associate professor of pathology Albert Einstein College of Medicine/ Montefiore Medical Center, wonderful scientist, gentle colleague, died after a long illness on January 23, 1997. Our hearts go to his family, his wife, Vona, and his children, Lisa and Eric. He wi
 LENKE-Sidney Edward M.D. On January 28, 1997. Dearly beloved husband and friend of Helen (nee Rand). Devoted and loving father of Patricia Fox, Judith Taft, Roger and Joanne Lenke. Cherished grandfather of Brian, Laura, Jacqueline, Peter, James and Michael. Dear brother of Dorothy Lurie. Fr
 TURCHEN-Steven. On January 23, 1997. Of San Diego, Calif., formerly of NYC. Age 39. Beloved husband of Tina. Loving son of Cynthia Richmond and the late Abe Turchen. Brother of David Turchen and the late Michael Turchen. Nephew of Barbara and Ed Simpson. Cousin of Gary, Andrea and Robert. H
 WEINBERG-Dr. Werner. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Werner Weinberg. Professor Emeritus of Hebrew Language and Literature, Dr
 Lord Rippon of HexhamRippon of Hexham, the chief negotiator of Britain's entry into the Common Market, died on Tuesday at his home near Bridgwater in the county of Somerset in southwestern England. He was 72. He had a long illness, the Press Association, Britain's domestic news agen
 Louis E. MartinLouis E. Martin, whose work behind the scenes as an adviser to three Democratic Presidents and whose efforts to bring more blacks into government earned him the sobriquet, ''the godfather of black politics,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Orange, Calif. He was 84. M
 Noah Lewis Robinson, the biological father of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, died on Monday at Greenville General Hospital in South Carolina. He was 88 and lived in Greenville, S.C. The cause was a heart attack and complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Jackson said. Mr. Robin
 Robert E. Pelletier, who worked at The New York Times for 37 years doing everything from executing promotional drawings to helping redesign the newspaper, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68 and had retired in 1994 as assistant to the editorial art director. His
 Dr. Alfonso Ortiz, an anthropologist who occupied an unusual spot in academia as a Pueblo Indian writing about his own people, died on Monday at his home here. He was 57. His family said the cause was complications from a longstanding heart ailment. Dr. Ortiz wrote ''The Tew
 Dr. Lee Willerman, a behavioral geneticist who looked for the ways biology could explain intelligence and mental problems, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 57. Dr. Willerman died after a heart attack, according to the University of Texas at Austin, where he held th
 Noah Lewis Robinson, the biological father of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, died on Monday at Greenville General Hospital in South Carolina. He was 88 and lived in Greenville, S.C. The cause was a heart attack and complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Jackson said. Mr. Robin
 INNISS-Charles E. The Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, the College Presidents, the faculty, students and staff of The City University of New York deeply mourn the passing of Trustee Charles E. Inniss. Appointed to the Board by the Governor in 1992, he served the University wit
 PAPARO-Irving. The partners and staff of Rochlin, Greenblatt, Gallo & Company mourn the pass ing of our dear and cherished friend, Irving Paparo, Chairman and President of House of Ronnie, Inc. Irving was a man of great compassion, intelligence, courage, kindness and dignity, who treated al
