 Fay Alexander, who soared to stardom as one of the few trapeze artists to execute a triple somersault and who performed the aerial maneuvers for movie characters played by Tony Curtis, Doris Day and others, died on July 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause w
 Harry Paster, who rose from a $60-a-week statistician to become a valued adviser to the most rich and powerful executives of Madison Avenue, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was cancer, according to John Wolfe, senior vice president at the America
 DEITRICK-John E., Sr., M.D. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University and New YorkPresbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. John E. Deitrick, Sr., who served a
 ENGLANDER - Philip. Beloved husband of Betty, loving and devoted father of Robert and Rita, cherished grandfather of Adam, Alex, Jessica, Hillary and Drew, loving and devoted father-in-law of Nancy and Jeffrey, passed quietly on September 29, 2000. Founder of the Intercollegiate Press in 19
 FLANZ-Fred. The Trustees, Medical Staff and Employees of Jamaica, Brookdale, and Flushing Hospitals extend their sincere condolences to our esteemed colleague, Bruce J. Flanz, Executive Vice President, on the passing of his father, Fred Flanz. Our heartfelt thoughts are with the Flanz famil
 GENNARO-Peter. On Sept. 28, 2000, at age 80. Beloved husband of Jean. Loving father of Michael and Liza and their spouses, Donna Lee & Scott Alan Evans. Adoring grandfather of Brendan and Fiona. Dear brother of Emile. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monda
 MARSHALL-Robert W., Sr. Of Summit, New Jersey, whose career with Bell Laboratories spanned more than four decades, died on Friday, September 29, 2000 at Overlook Hospital after a long illness. He was 87 years old. Marshall, who retired from Bell Laboratories in 1977, was a patentee of vario
 McCULLOUGH-Donald F. Former Chairman of Collins & Aikman. Died Tuesday, September 26, 2000. He is survived by his wife Louise and children Gregory, Sally, Tracey and Nina Williams. Memorial service will be at the First Congregational Church, 108 Sound Beach Ave., Old Greenwich, CT, Tuesday,
 MORAN-John D. A pressman for The New York Times for 17 years from 1967 to 1984 passed away Saturday, September 23, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Margaret, two daughters, Agnes and Therese; one son, John. His daughter Adelaide died in 1983. Adelaide's son, Michael Bonomo was raised by Jo
 MOREHOUSE-Edward J. Of Chappaqua, died Thursday, September 28, 2000, at Northern Westchester Hospital. He was born on December 8, 1920, in San Francisco, CA, to the late Edward C. and Katherine (Kerwin) Morehouse. He was 79. Mr. Morehouse was a graduate of UC-Berkeley. He worked for 25 year
 NAGASHIMA-Hideo, M.D. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center and the entire Montefiore community are deeply saddened by the death of Hideo Nagashima, M.D. An esteemed member of our Department of Anesthesiology for more than 4 decades and director of Anesthesiology 
 RANKOW-Robin M. On Sept. 22, 2000. Professor Emeritus and Attending Surgeon, Head and Neck Surgery, Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons. Attending Surgeon, Yale University, New Haven Medical Center, 1979-1985. Authored surgical atlas, medical te
 SHELLER-Robert G., Esq. Died peacefully on September 26, 2000 at the age of 93. Husband of the late Helen Reiser Sheller. Father of Elly Sheller Rufer and the late Ed Sheller. Grandfather of Alexandra and Christopher Sheller, Daniel and Kate Rufer. Brother of the late Frances Snyder and unc
 SILLS-Thomas A. On September 26 at age 86. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne Reynal, a mosaicist. Devoted father of Kenneth and Michael, grandfather of Arvis and Dawn and brother of Anne McMurray. A gifted artist, who was a member of the New York Abstract Expressionist movement and then la
 STREETEN-David H. P., M.D., D.Phil. F.R.C.P., F.A.C.P. Age 78, died Friday, September 29, at University Hospital, Syracuse, NY. Dr. Streeten was born in Bloemfontein, South Africa. Beloved husband of Dr. Barbara Streeten, and father of Robert, Elizabeth and John Streeten. Funeral services w
 SWINBURNE-John Knowles. The Long Island Plastic Surgical Group is deeply saddened by the passing of John Knowles Swinburne, M.D. This gifted and dedicated individual lost his valiant battle against cancer on September 26. His creativity and ability to see complex problems from a fresh and n
 Brian MacRae, who for 15 years was the Queen of England's personal bagpiper, died on Sept. 3. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack while he was on vacation in France, The Times of London said. Pipe-Major MacRae's principal duty, starting at precisely 9 a.m., was to play f
 George M. Rood, a staff editor at The New York Times for 38 years, died of cancer on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Rood joined The Times in 1962 as an editor in financial news. He was named chief of the department's copy desk in 196
 ALLEN-Robert. 73, of Quogue, NY, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, died peacefully at home on October 1, 2000. He is survived by his loving wife Patty (nee Keating); four children from two previous marriages: Diana of Montague, MA, Katie of New Rochelle, NY, Gordon of Granger, IN, and Pamela St
 BRANDT-Henry. On September 30, 2000, at age 77. Beloved husband of Roxanne. Loving father of Pamela Jackson and Jonathan Brandt and father-in-law of Thomas Jackson. Adored grandfather of Natalie. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday, 7-9 PM, with service 
 CARELLI-Joseph V. 79, of Monroe, NY, died Friday, September 29, at his residence. Beloved husband of Grace (nee Servello); devoted father of Frank, Joseph, Mary Goldberg and Joanne Trivero; loving brother of Vittoria Pitaro and beloved grandfather. Friends may call at Quackenbush Funeral Ho
 CORRIGAN-John M. Of Spring Lake, NJ, and Delray Beach, FL, died suddenly on September 29. He was 58. Born in Jersey City, NJ, and a graduate of Seton Hall University. He was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Estee Lauder Companies. Mr. Corrigan is survived by his wi
 ENGLANDER - Philip. Beloved husband of Betty, loving and devoted father of Robert and Rita, cherished grandfather of Adam, Alex, Jessica, Hillary and Drew, loving and devoted father-in-law of Nancy and Jeffrey, passed quietly on September 29, 2000. Founder of the Intercollegiate Press in 19
 HOFFMAN-Leon. On September 30, 2000, at 85 years old. Beloved husbnd of the late Rita. Loving father of Roy and his wife Sandra, Jane and her husband Dr. David Zelman. Cherished grandfather of Lisa, Mark, Lori, Jeremy and Allison. Dear brother of Rose Hateau. Unselfishly placing his family'
 HULSE-James Henry. Theatrical manager and publicist, passed away September 29, 2000. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He is survived by his stepbrother, Alan Hazelton, stepnieces, Helen Hagen, Courtney Hazelton, Anne Morey and stepnephew, Robert Hazelton. Funeral service will be held
 KRYGIER-Ben (Binem). Died September 29, 2000, at the age of 76, in New York at Sloan Kettering Memorial Hospital. He had battled for many years with great courage and dignity. He will be sorely missed by those who loved him. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, October 3, in Kfar Shmaryah
 McCULLOUGH-Donald F. Former Chairman of Collins & Aikman. Died Tuesday, September 26, 2000. He is survived by his wife Louise and children Gregory, Sally, Tracey and Nina Williams. Memorial service will be at the First Congregational Church, 108 Sound Beach Ave., Old Greenwich, CT, Tuesday,
 MOREHOUSE-Edward J. On September 28, 2000, of Chappaqua, NY. Husband of the late Martha Jean (Bernstein). Father of John, Peter, and Stephen, Margaret and the late Jeffrey. Brother of Vincent Morehouse and Jean Ritchie. Grandfather of six. Memorial service Saturday, October 7, at 11 AM, at 
 MURPHY-Thomas P. Age 77, of Highlands, NJ, died Saturday, September 30, 2000 at Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch. He was a retired Circulation Manager of The New York Times and President of The Newspaper Guild, retiring in 1988. After retiring from the paper, he worked for 10 years with
 NAGASHIMA-Hideo, M.D. Professor Emeritus at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, died on September 29 at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. He was 70. He was predeceased by his first wife Olga and is survived by his second wife Sachiko; his th
 SCHULTE-Maurice, D.D.S. Peacefully on September 30, 2000, at the age of 94. He was a man of gentleness and humanity, a dedicated professional with a lifelong commitment to social justice. He is mourned by his daughter and sonin-law Marjorie and Michael Engber, his grandsons Benjamin and Dan
 SILLS-Thomas A. On September 26 at age 86. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne Reynal, a mosaicist. Devoted father of Kenneth and Michael, grandfather of Arvis and Dawn and brother of Anne McMurray. A gifted artist, who was a member of the New York Abstract Expressionist movement and then la
 VIALE-Chester W. Died on September 28, at the age of 81. ''Chet'' is rememberd fondly by his loving wife Rita of 55 years, his devoted nephew Chris Torelli and sister-inlaw Vera Torelli, and his many other nieces and nephews. Viale was Senior Executive Administrative Partner of L.F. Rothsch
 WALSH-James P. Born on April 12, 1929, James P. Walsh passed away on Saturday, September 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Katherine (Dawida) Walsh; devoted father of Kathleen and Jack Stanley, Janet and George Massie, and Caroline Walsh and Greg Rosenberg; loving grandfather of Jack, Paul, Lara 
 WEISS-Leonard ''Ben.'' September 29, 2000. Of Plymouth Meeting, PA. Husband of Blanche (nee Stein), father of Paul (Susan) Weiss, Steven (Stephanie) Weiss and Stuart (Robin) Weiss. Brother of Ethel Mark. Also survived by eight grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to services Mon
 WOLF-Barnet. On September 30, 2000, age 87, of Teaneck, NJ. Husband of Harriet Malina Wolf, father of Robert, Marilyn and John. Brother, grandfather, uncle, and friend. Services today, 2 PM, at Beth El Cemetery, Forest Ave, Paramus, NJ. Contributions in his memory may be made to Juvenile Di
 John Espey, a writer and teacher whose first books were devoted to his childhood in China, died on Sept. 26 in Los Angeles. He was 87. Mr. Espey, the son of a Presbyterian missionary, was born and raised in Shanghai. He began writing about his youthful experiences in ''Minor Heresie
 BAGNALL-William (Bill). Died at his home in Boston, on September 29, 2000. His family and friends will sorely miss his glorious one-liners, loyalty, & love, his grandchildren the butterfly kisses.       
 BIALKIN-Robert. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Robert Bialkin, beloved brother of our Honorary Trustee Kenneth Bialkin. We extend our deepest condolences to Kenneth and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand, Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zu
 BRANDT-Henry. On September 30, 2000, at age 77. Beloved husband of Roxanne. Loving father of Pamela Jackson and Jonathan Brandt and father-in-law of Thomas Jackson. Adored grandfather of Natalie. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday, 7-9 PM, with service 
 COHEN-Helene. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Robert Cohen, upon the loss of his mother. May he and the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 ENGEL-Arthur. 83, of Long Island, died Sunday, Oct. 1. His intense love for his family, particularly his beloved wife Marion kept him battling with courage and dignity. He will be greatly missed by his loving daughter and son Leslie and Steven and his son-in-law Larry and daughter-in-law So
 FELDMAN-Abraham. Age 83, of Danbury, CT. Died Saturday, September 30, 2000 at Danbury Hospital. He was the husband of Fay E. (Cohen) Feldman. Mr. Feldman was a self-employed member of the Natl. Electrical Contractor's Assoc. He is survived by his son William Feldman, daughters Heidi Spiegle
 FOSTER-Dr. Gerald ''Lefty'' A., 72, of Milwaukee, WI, died Wednesday, September 27, 2000 from complications of congestive heart failure. He was born August 31, 1928 in Colby, WI. His professional experiences included Associate Professor of Psychology at Indiana State University (Terre Haute
 FREEDMAN-Walter S. Of Delray Beach, Florida, formerly of New York City & Danbury, Connecticut. Died October 1, 2000 after a lengthy illness. Beloved husband of the late Jacqueline Mond Freedman. Proud father and father-in-law of Cathy and Jerry Gollub. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Alli
 HARRIS-I. Joseph. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our former Trustee and a gentleman of great wisdom. Condolences to Hilda and his family.       
 LINDENBERG-Karl. We mourn the loss of Karl Lindenberg, one of the founding members of our congregation and former trustee. We extend sincere condolences to his wife Sophie and the entire family. Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates       
 NAGASHIMA-Hideo, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our distinguished Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology. A member of our faculty since 1964, he was a skilled and caring physician who also made important contributions to the advancement of an
 NEUSTADT-Etta. 97, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., on October 2, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Jack and his wife, Rhena, and Paul and his wife, Zelda. Cherished grandmother of Beth Figman and husband Scott, Mark Neustadt & his wife, Rachel Friedman. Devoted great grandmother 
 SIAUW-Andy Joeng Tjoe. Died October 1st, 2000 at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Ida Widjaja. Loving father of Fun, Rachel Fong, Jane & Koy. We are deeply saddened. He will truly be missed. Ceremony honoring his memory will be held on Tuesday, October 3rd, 9 AM, at Chun Fook Funeral Servi
 SIGMAN-Carl. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their esteemed member, Carl Sigman and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife and his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 TAZBIN-Steven. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Marcia, his children Emily, Daniel, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Katherine Teich, President Steven Chill, 
 WEINBERG-Samuel. Peacefully, in his sleep on October 1, 2000. Born March 28, 1908, son of Bertha Katz and Morris Weinberg. Attorney-at-law, senior partner at Sperry, Weinberg & Cohen. Loving husband of the late Mildred Wolton Weinberg. Beloved father of Ladd and the late Michael. Caring fat
 Reggie Kray, the last survivor of the three-brother gang of ruthless enforcers with Cockney accents who ran London's underworld in the 1950's and 1960's while gaining reputations as smart-suited escorts to the show business set and Robin Hood figures in their old neighborhood, died Sunday i
 Ruddick C. Lawrence, a former vice president for public relations at the New York Stock Exchange and chairman of the board of Sarah Lawrence College, died Saturday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88. During his 15-year tenure at the stock exchange, starting in 1953, he direct
 BAGNALL-William (Bill). Died at his home in Boston, on September 29, 2000. His family and friends will sorely miss his glorious one-liners, loyalty, & love, his grandchildren the butterfly kisses.       
 BIALKIN-Robert. The Jerusalem Foundation notes with sorrow the passing of Robert Bialkin, brother of esteemed Vice Chairman Kenneth J. Bialkin. We extend condolences to Ken and his family. Teddy Kollek, Int'l Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l President William Ackman, Chairman Sandra Rubin, Exec
 BOYD-Thomas. Actor, passed away quietly on September 15th, 2000 after a long struggle with cancer. His many friends will remember his kindness, his talent and his sense of humor as well as the wonderful times each shared with him. Donations may be made to Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS, 
 CLARIN-Eric B. MD. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the untimely death of Dr. Eric B. Clarin. Dr. Clarin was associated with Maimonides Medical Center as a Pediatric Pathologist. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Sincere condolences are ext
 DORSCH-George. The History of Art Department at F.I.T. is grieved to announce the death of our friend and colleague, who was born July 2, 1936 and died on September 15. A beloved and inspiring teacher at F.I.T. since 1968, Professor Dorsch served as chairperson of the department from 1990 t
 GALEF-Joshua. Poet, died on Saturday, September 30, 2000, at the age of 45. The beloved son of Richard Galef, stepson of Susan Anthony and brother of Adam. He lived a life of great and sustained courage. He will be greatly missed.       
 McVEIGH-Charles S., Jr, Esq. On behalf of the entire Mount Sinai/ NYU Health Community, we note with great sorrow the passing of long-time Trustee and friend, Charles S. McVeigh. Mr. McVeigh was elected to The NYU Medical Center Board of Trustees in 1962. He served with distinction as Secre
 RABER-Irving. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of David Yellin College of Education mourn the loss of Vice President Irving Raber, loving and devoted husband of Naomi, father of Patty and Michael and special mentor and friend to his grandchildren. Irving served for many years 
 VOGEL - Abraham (Shakey). Adoring husband of Helen. Loving father of Joel, Elayne and the late Sari. Devoted grandfather of Nancy, Melissa, Jonathan, Joslyn, Matthew, Jennifer, Andrew and the late Brenda. He was a special person to his family and his extended family and to everyone who knew
 WEINBERG-Samuel. Peacefully, in his sleep on October 1, 2000. Born March 28, 1908, son of Bertha Katz and Morris Weinberg. Attorney-at-law, senior partner at Sperry, Weinberg & Cohen. Loving husband of the late Mildred Wolton Weinberg. Beloved father of Ladd and the late Michael. Caring fat
 John T. Patterson Jr., who founded a development corporation that helped lure both businesses and capital to the struggling South Bronx of the 1970's, died Sept. 26 near Munich. He was 72. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Jodie Patterson Becker. Mr. Patters
 Dr. Malcolm C. Todd, a former president of the American Medical Association who helped develop a precursor of the Medicare program, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in California. He was 87. In the late 1940's, as a consultant to the Navy, he collaborated with Ad
 Nick Fatool, a swing-era drummer who played with many of the most popular big bands in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 in Los Angeles. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Fatool may be best known for his participation in the Benny Goodman Sextet sessions of the late 1930's
 BAUDOIN-Charles H., October 4, 2000. Loving husband of Suzanne. Caring father of Patsy, Jean-Yves, Marina and Bettina. Grandfather of Christina, Patrick, Alexander, Daniel and Paul. Father-in-law of Madge, Ellen, Harry and Henri. He will be remembered by family and friends for his love of l
 DELLAYOCANO - Nicholas (Broadway Nick). Died in Clove Lake Nursing Home of natural causes October 3, 2000, age 89. Born in New York City, moved to Staten Island in 1970. Retired mailer from the New York Times, Local 6 Union. He was the Sergeant of Arms for many years. Grandpa enjoyed travel
 DUNKIN-Sol R. Retired Justice of the New York State Supreme Court. Beloved husband of Leonore. Loving father of Amy and Ellen. Father-in-law of Lawrence Kraftowitz and Joseph Michaeli. Devoted grandfather of Ari, BJ, Noah, Eli and Jonah. Services Thursday 1 PM, at Schwartz BrosJeffer Memori
 FISHER-Gerald. Beloved husband of Annette. Loving father of Susan and Steven. Former vice president of Reeves International, Inc. of NYC. Mr. Fisher was well known in the toy industry and will be missed by all who knew him. Service Friday, 1:30 PM at Riverside, 21 West Broad St., Mt. Vernon
 FLYNN-Mary C. Of Rockville Centre, N.Y. on October 4, 2000. Dear mother of Robert (Rosemary), William (Kathleen). Proud grandmother of Ryan, Tara, Kevin, Erin, Kiera, Kerry and the late Colin. Cherished sister of William F. Nolen and his wife Gloria. Reposing at Macken Mortuary Inc., 52 Cli
 FRANCK-Eric. Age 79 of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of West New York, NJ, died suddenly on October 3, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Paula; his daughter, Michele; and granddaughters, Sharon and Daniella. Contributions may be made in his memory to either The American Heart Association or The 
 GURFEIN-Louis. The officers, directors and membership of the DMIA were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of their former president and esteemed colleague. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and his many friends. Diamond Manufacturers & Importers Association of America Jef
 LOOMIS-Wilber D. Age 75. On September 30. Beloved husband, father and friend. We will cherish his memory always. Service Saturday, 3 PM at Church of the Ascension, 5th Avenue and 10th St.       
 MILLER-Richard G. 74, of Brookfield, CT, died September 29, 2000. Retired Senior Patent Counsel for Union Carbide Corporation, Graduate of West Virginia University and George Washington Law School. Honorably discharged from U.S. Navy. Survived by his mother, Gertrude H. Miller of Massachuse
 OKIN-Robert (Bob). Bob passed away on October 3, 2000. Born to Deborah and Harry Okin on February 20, 1917 in Bronx, NY, he was a graduate of Ohio University and St. John's School of Law. Bob was a founding member of the Atlantis Yacht Club in Sea Bright, NJ and a former Executive Vice Pres
 PALMER-George Quintard. Died Thursday, September 15, 2000 after a short illness. He was a long time NY resident before moving to England. Mr. Palmer graduated from St. Marks School, Princeton University Class of 1947. He served with the Army in the South Pacific during WW II. Survivors incl
 RABER-Irving R. Loving husband and companion of Naomi of 54 years. Beloved father of Michael (Hila) and Patricia Max (Ken). Caring grandfather of Jesse and Maia Raber, Lindsey & Benjamin Max. Dear brother of Murray (Lila). He will live in our hearts forever. Services at Beth El Synagogue, N
 RICHARDSON-William J. The members of the Reveille Club of NY mourn the loss of our beloved member. Bill was a devoted member, loving husband and father. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Gertrude and family. Livingston S. Francis, President The Reveille Club of NY       
 Robert Allen, the composer of songs that included ''Chances Are,'' ''Moments to Remember'' and ''Home for the Holidays,'' died on Sunday at his home in Quogue, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was colon cancer, his family said. Mr. Allen's songs were performed by Johnny Mathis, Tony Bennet
 Benjamin Orr, a bassist, vocalist and founding member of the rock group the Cars, died on Tuesday in his home in Atlanta. He was 53. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Billy Johnson, who manages Big People, an Atlanta band for which Mr. Orr played bass. Born Benjamin Orze
 Dr. Eugene Borowitz, a psychiatrist who had a key role in developing the anonymous system that the MacArthur Fellows Program uses to identify potential recipients of its stipends known informally as ''genius grants,'' died on Tuesday in a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Chicago.
 Michael Smith, who shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing one of the basic tools of genetic engineering, died on Wednesday at Vancouver General Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the University of British
 ABEDON-Marsha. Hillel: The Foundation For Jewish Campus Life extends its heartfelt condolences to the family of Hillel Treasurer Julian Sandler on the passing of his sister, Marsha Abedon. May the Sandler and Abedon families be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Hillel International Boar
 AUSTIN-Maurice, on Wednesday, October 4, 2000, in his 94th year. Devoted husband and beloved companion of Jennie Austin for 71 years; loving father of Alice and John Brumbaugh, Alan and Irene Austin; doting grandfather of Sharon Moser, Sheila Sybrant, Jonathan Austin, and Kathleen Austin; a
 BAUDOIN-Charles. A compassionate, wise and gentle man who was a much valued member of the Board of Trustees of the Ackerman Institute for the Family. We were indeed most fortunate to have his involvement and committment to helping families. Sincerest condolences to his loving family. Arthur
 BECK-Theodore H. Of NYC and Nantucket Island. Age 81, in Sleepy Hollow, New York, on October 5. Ted served in the U.S. Army's spearhead division across the Rhine in WW II. His tank and crew were destroyed in a direct hit but he survived, minus one leg. Despite this disability, he lived a fu
 DELAPENA-Harvey V. Husband of Joanne (Young). Father of Stephen & Bradford Delapena & Susan Cava. Also survived by 3 grandchildren & a sister Mimi Turner. Visiting hours Sunday 2-5 pm in John-Lawrence Funeral Home, Marstons Mills, MA. Memorials in his name to C-O-MM Rescue Squad, 1875 Falmo
 DUTKA-Leonard M. Of Pound Ridge, N.Y. and Carlsbad, Calif. Died on October 4. Retired President of Dynarex Corp and former President of IPCO Hospital Supply. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Elaine, Mark and Richard. Loving father-in-law of Irene. Doting grandfather of Annie 
 GALLOUSIS-Lou. The Faculty and Staff of Mt. Sinai School of Medicine and The Mt. Sinai Hospital of Mt. Sinai NYU Health are profoundly saddened by the sudden passing of Lou Gallousis, Founder and President of the Louis Green, Evelyn Green Davis Childcare Center which serves the children of 
 HONSINGER-Leroy Vernon, Rear Admiral, died at the Masonic Geriatric Healthcare Center in Wallingford on Sunday, October 1, 2000 after a short illness. Recently turned 95, he had lived at 4303 Ashlar Village for the last eight and one-half years. He also had lived in Southbury, CT for eighte
 MADDEN-Daniel Michael. A retired Lieutenant, U.S. Navy, died September 15, 2000 in his Phoenix, Arizona residence. The son of the late Thomas P. Madden and Anna Hanlon Madden was predeceased also by his wife, Huan Wilson Madden. He is survived by his sister, Rose Mary Noonan and niece, Maur
 MURRAY-John Patrick Jr., on October 3, at the age of 73, of Princeton, NJ and Hobe Sound, Florida. Beloved husband of almost 50 years of Mary Tietje. Devoted father of Ellen Kelsey, Greenwich, CT, Elizabeth Hosea, Princeton, NJ, John P. III, New York City, W. Stephen, Greens Farms, CT, M. T
 RABER-Irving. The Trustees and staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of Irving Raber, our devoted Trustee and friend. Irving joined the Board in November, 1988 and remained active until his death. He was involved with house and building issues and was a su
 ROBINSON-Horace B.B. The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. express deep sorrow at the death of our distinguished long-time member (1971-2000), Horace B.B. Robinson, on October 3, 2000. As Chairman of the Foundation's Investment and Law Committees for many years, he provided dedic
 SANTOS-Don Floriano. The members of Loeb Block and Partners mourn the loss of their dear friend, Don Floriano Santos, of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. For more than thirty years we shared joys and sorrows together. A big man with an even bigger heart, respected businessman, loving father and gran
 SCHAEFFER-Hans A. Formerly of Linden, NJ, passed away October 4, 2000 at home in Bethesda, MD., with his wife by his side. His wife, Leilo, his three children, Barbara Dagger of Woodstock, VT, Monica Gorochow of Patomic, MD and Edward Schaeffer of Wellesley, MA & seven grandchildren survive
 SEEVE-Harry, age 84, on October 3. Beloved husband of the late Zelda and devoted father of Marsha Rolston and Leonard Seeve and the late William Seeve. Brother of Moses Seeve and grandfather of Michael, David, Eric, Matthew, Brian and Sean. He was a fund raiser for the UJA and founder of Se
 SILLS-Nathaniel L., 93 years. Devoted husband of the late Ruth, father of Larry and Susan, Arthur and Sarah, Peter and Susan, grandfather of Deborah and Adam, Eric and Leah, Matthew, Dylan, Daniel and Noah, greatgrandfather of Jacob, Eli & Laila. He was Chairman of the Board of Standard Mot
 Art Athens, a veteran New York radio correspondent and host whose broadcasts sometimes made the news as well as reported it, died yesterday near his home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Victoria. As host of ''Ask the Governor'' and ''A
 BRESLOW-Harold. We will always remember Harold laughing and enjoying his sweet grandson Nate. Our hearts are with his beloved wife Bea, his daughter Lori and our dearest friends Ellen and Sam Newhouse and their children S.I., Ben and Nate. Sandra, Sam, Robert and Cary Wasserman BRES
 DUTKA-Leonard M. Of Pound Ridge, N.Y. and Carlsbad, Calif. Died on October 4. Retired President of Dynarex Corp and former President of IPCO Hospital Supply. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Elaine, Mark and Richard. Loving father-in-law of Irene. Doting grandfather of Annie 
 FINN-Allen Charles. Of White Plains, New York on October 5th. Age 78. Loving husband to Charlotte. Devoted father to his three boys Andrew, Richard and Gregg. Beloved grandfather to Peter, Brian, Stephanie, Caroline, Jacqueline, Claudia and Charlie. Member of the US Armed Forces in W.W. II.
 SANTOS-Don Floriano. The members of Loeb Block and Partners mourn the loss of their dear friend, Don Floriano Santos, of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. For more than thirty years we shared joys and sorrows together. A big man with an even bigger heart, respected businessman, loving father and gran
 SAVITZ-Sy. On October 5, 2000 at age 74. Adored husband of Nita. Loving father of Jane and Tony Mangiaracina and Susan and Michael LaValle. Devoted grandfather of Bianca, Jayson, Michelle and Michael. Dear brother of Judy Rand. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street
 SILLS-Nathaniel L., 93 years. Devoted husband of the late Ruth, father of Larry and Susan, Arthur and Sarah, Peter and Susan, grandfather of Deborah and Adam, Eric and Leah, Matthew, Dylan, Daniel and Noah, greatgrandfather of Jacob, Eli & Laila. He was Chairman of the Board of Standard Mot
 William J. Kennedy, the president of the printing pressmen's union who led an 88-day strike against New York City's three major newspapers in 1978, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Plainview, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Dix Hills, N.Y. The cause was congestive
 William P. Bundy, who under three presidents was a central figure in Vietnam policy and who ultimately concluded that the war was ''a tragedy waiting to happen,'' died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 83. A family friend, Harry McPherson, said he died of heart trouble
 Dennis Sandole, a jazz guitarist and legendary teacher whose students included John Coltrane, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 87. Mr. Sandole was 19 when he taught himself to play the guitar; his older brother, Adolph, taught himself the baritone saxophone. They
 Joseph F. Haas, an Atlanta lawyer who played an important role in the Voter Education Project, which encouraged blacks across the South to register to vote in the 1960's, 1970's and 1980's, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 89 and lived in Atlanta. The Voter Education Project, whic
 AUSTIN-Maurice, on Wednesday, October 4, 2000, in his 94th year. Devoted husband and beloved companion of Jennie Austin for 71 years; loving father of Alice and John Brumbaugh, Alan and Irene Austin; doting grandfather of Sharon Moser, Sheila Sybrant, Jonathan Austin, and Kathleen Austin; a
 BAUDOIN-Charles. On October 4, 2000. Memorial service Friday, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Thanks to Scandinavia Foundation, the Ackerman Institute or to the charity of your choice.       
 BRODY-Alton. Of Boca Raton, FL, died peacefully October 6, at the age of 82. He is the beloved husband of Gloria Brody, loving father of Dr. Roberta Godbe and Stephen Brody, grandather of Michael and Zachary. He was a veteran, furniture distributor and sales executive and president of Furni
 DUTKA-Leonard M. Of Pound Ridge, N.Y. and Carlsbad, Calif. Died on October 4. Retired President of Dynarex Corp and former President of IPCO Hospital Supply. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Elaine, Mark and Richard. Loving father-in-law of Irene. Doting grandfather of Annie 
 HEENAN-Maurice, C.M.G., Q.C., former Attorney General of Hong Kong, died September 26 at the age of 87 at his residence ''Plane Trees'', 534 West Road, New Canaan, Connecticut. Educated in New Zealand, LLB, barrister & solicitor of Supreme Court of New Zealand 1937-40, Major, 2nd NZEF (West
 LEVENTHAL-Adam J., 42. A sculptor, died September 29, 2000 in Los Angeles. He is survived by his wife, Cindy Kolodziejski, his daughter, Olivia Moon, his parents, David and Ann Z. Leventhal of Hartford, CT, a sister, Amy, two brothers, Max and Seth, and eight nieces and nephews. There was a
 McGINNIS-Arthur J. Chairman of Simmons-Boardman Publishing Corp, died of a stroke at age 89, on October 5. Mr. McGinnis graduated from Fordham University in 1932, and from Harvard Business School in 1934. His 60 year career culminated in his achieving control of the corporation which publis
 PATTERSON-John T. Jr. The officers and members of Black Agency Executives were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of one of their founders and esteemed colleague. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Horace W. Morris, President       
 ROBINSON-Horace B.B. The Society of Mayflower Decendents in the State of New York mourns the death of Horace B.B. Robinson, our passed Governor and present Elder. His perserverance, hardwork and devotion to duty were an inspiration to us all. We extend our sympathy to his wife and three son
 SAVITZ-Sy. On October 5, 2000 at age 74. Adored husband of Nita. Loving father of Jane and Tony Mangiaracina and Susan and Michael LaValle. Devoted grandfather of Bianca, Jayson, Michelle and Michael. Dear brother of Judy Rand. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street
 SILLS-Nathaniel L., 93 years. Devoted husband of the late Ruth, father of Larry and Susan, Arthur and Sarah, Peter and Susan, grandfather of Deborah and Adam, Eric and Leah, Matthew, Dylan, Daniel and Noah, greatgrandfather of Jacob, Eli & Laila. He was Chairman of the Board of Standard Mot
 SIMON-Nathan. On October 5, 2000 at the age of 85. Retired New York Times Typographer. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted brother to Seymour and the late Charlie and sister-in-law Jean, sister Mildred. Adored uncle of Penny, Jill, David, Marlene and the late Karen Lembeck, Randi and Mitche
 YATES-Congressman Sidney R., 91, beloved husband of Adeline, nee Holleb, devoted father of Hon. Stephen (Debra) Yates, loving grandfather of Jonathan, Lauren and Carolyn. Services Sunday, 11:00AM at Temple Sholom, 3480 N. Lake Shore Dr., Chicago. Interment Memorial Park Cemetery, Skokie, IL
 NADELSON-Andrew Mitchell. 10/8/49-12/28/93. In loving memory on his 51st birthday. Mother and Jay       
 Saburo Sakai, a Japanese fighter pilot in World War II who said he shot down 64 Allied planes, including one of each type the United States flew, but who later befriended the Americans he once fought, died in Tokyo on Sept. 22. He was 84. Mr. Sakai was dining with American military 
 Sidney R. Yates, a congressman from Chicago for nearly half a century who battled  for government support for the arts, died on Thursday at a hospital here. He was 91. Mr. Yates lived in Washington after retiring from the House of Representatives two years ago. In 24 terms, he built
 Dr. Joseph Weber, a pioneer in two important fields of 20th-century physics, lasers and the search for waves in the fabric of space predicted by Einstein, died Sept. 30 in a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 81. The cause was side effects of treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form
 ALTMAN-Peter Morris. Age 60. Died October 5, 2000 in Norwalk, CT. He was a native of New York, resident of Wheaton, IL, owner of Altman Marketing & Technical Communications. Survived by his wife, Anne Hottell Altman; three daughters, two sons; his mother Rose Altman and brother Steven Altma
 GLASER-Viktor. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished & devoted member, Viktor Glaser. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Tuesday, October 10th at 10 AM. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norma
 KERESEY-James F. The Board of Governors and Members of The Creek, Inc. express their profound sorrow at the passing of James F. Keresey, its past President, Governor for many years, and beloved member since 1954. His enthusiastic participation and leadership have been an inspiration to all 
 KUZON-Edward. Of North Miami Beach, FL on October 6, 2000 in his 90th year. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia (Leff), wife of 65 years. Devoted father and father-in-law of Ronald and Susan of Scarsdale, NY. Loving grandfather of Tiffany, Jillian, Joshua, Ariel and Aaron. Born in Kiev, Russ
 MARCH-David. Current and past employees, suppliers and clients of Thomson-Leeds Company mourn the passing of our very loved teacher and friend, David March, who for 25 years guided our firm's production department to become the preeminent point of sale advertising agency in the United State
 MULLANE-Ed, who continued as owner and operator of Mullane Ford and as President of the Ford Dealers' Alliance until his last days, died on October 7, 2000, at his home in Paramus, NJ. He died of pulmonary complications, the residual effects of polio, which had kept him hospitalized for a y
 PFURSICH-Maurice. On October 6, 2000. President of Manhattan Venture Company. Beloved brother of Michael Frost and uncle of Suzanne Ranani. He will be sorely missed by loving cousins Ronald Goodman and Andrew Lazarus and by those many others to whom he was a dear, generous and cherished fri
 ROCHLIN-Benjamin. On October 8, 2000, in his 92nd year. Husband of the late Ruth Kaltman Rochlin and Esther Zimmerman Rochlin. Father of Alfreda Finkelstein (Martin) and Gail Rochlin-Meyer. Grandfather of Ruth Sheinfield (Michael) and William Stein. Brother of Mordecai Rochlin. Funeral serv
 Charles B. Yates, a banker, businessman and former New Jersey legislator who was a proponent of campaign finance reform and a supporter of stricter ethical rules for elected officials, died on Friday in an airplane crash in Massachusetts. He was 61. Mr. Yates, a pilot for more than 
 John T. Connor, who was Commerce Secretary under Lyndon B. Johnson and the chief executive of two major corporations, died of blood cancer on Friday at a hospital in Boston, said his wife, Mary. He was 85. Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Connor had held the top job at the pharmaceutical co
 Morton A. Zolotow, a theater manager who administered the backstage traffic at some of the nation's grandest auditoriums, died on Sept. 15 at a hospital in Chicago. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Kathy Zolotow, his wife. Mr. Zolotow, a native New Yorker, gr
 BAUDOIN-Charles. On October 4, 2000. Memorial service Friday, October 13, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Thanks to Scandinavia Foundation, the Ackerman Institute or to the charity of your choice.       
 DAVIS-Harry. Our congregation mourns the loss of our partiarch, a past President and devoted worker. Loved by all, he will be missed. Burial took place on October 8. Temple Beth El of Long Beach Abraham Kupchik, Rabbi Harry Brown, President       
 FLYNN-Robert. Of Rockville Centre, N.Y. on October 6, 2000. Loving son of the late Mary. Devoted husband of Rosemary (nee Grubb). Loving father of Ryan, Kevin, Kiera and the late Colin. Dear brother of Bill. Cherished nephew of William and his wife Gloria. Also survived by many loving niece
 FRIED-Vojtech. Professor Emeritus, Brooklyn College, on Oct 6, in Sarasota, FL. He is survived by his loving wife Kate, son Thomas, grandchildren Ora and Benny and a generation of grateful students. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Fried Award Fund, Brooklyn College.     
 KOMINSKI-Ronald L. Of Pelham Manor, N.Y. Died on Friday, Oct. 6 in New York City, of brain cancer. Donations may be made in his memory to support brain tumor research in the Neurological Department, C/O Dr. Jeffrey Raizer, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Ave., NY, N
 LIVERANT-Israel E. ''Zeke''. Antiques dealer of Colchester, husband of Joanna Liverant, passed away peacefully Sunday, (October 8, 2000) at his home. He was born November 26, 1916 in Colchester, where he resided his entire life. Zeke served in the Army during World War II. He was the son of
 MARINBACH-Stanley. October 8, 2000 of Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Myron & Andrea, fatherin-law of Sandra & Myron Cohen. Cherished grandfather of Matthew, Dylan & Ruben. Graveside service Tuesday, Wellwood Cemetery. He will be sorely missed.       
 MULLANE-Edwin J. It is with deepest sorrow that we announce that Edwin J. Mullane, President of Mullane Ford of Bergenfield, N.J. and President and Founder of the Ford Dealers Alliance died at his home on Saturday, October 7, 2000 of pulmonary complications, the residual effects of polio, a
 NICHOLAS-Carl, 88, long-timeNew York City resident and fixture of the Broadway Stage, died peacefully at Encore Senior Village in Tucson, AZ October 7, 2000. Mr. Nicholas born in Appleton, WI in 1912, graduated from Lawrence University in 1935, then came to New York to further his vocal stu
 ROCHLIN-Benjamin. On October 8, 2000, in his 92nd year. Husband of the late Ruth Kaltman Rochlin and Esther Zimmerman Rochlin. Father of Alfreda Finkelstein (Martin) and Gail Rochlin-Meyer. Grandfather of Ruth Sheinfield (Michael) and William Stein. Brother of Mordecai Rochlin. Funeral serv
 SARATH-Edward Noah, 78, of Ridgefield, CT, passed away October 7, 2000 in the loving company of his family. Survived by his cherished wife, Florence, seven children-Carol, Edward, Maria, David, James, Patrice and Steven and 8 grandchildren. He was a social and spiritual visionary and author
 SHAFIROFF-Dr. Benjamin G.P. Of Brooklyn, NY, on October, 6, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Edith, cherished father of Paul and Edith, David and Carol, Mark and Marsha, Henry & Jean, Naomi, Martha, Laura DeVivo, Diana and John Casalino, Adam and Peggy, & Chia. Father-in-law to the late Ja
 Willard Bascom, an engineer and scientist fascinated by the sea who supervised pioneering deep-sea exploration in the 1960's, died on Sept. 20 at his home in San Diego. He was 83. His death stemmed from injuries in a car accident, his family said. From 1960 to 1962, Mr. Basc
 Representative Bruce F. Vento of Minnesota, a Democrat who championed environmental causes and bank reform during 12 terms in Congress, died today at his home in St. Paul, three days after his 60th birthday. Mr. Vento had been suffering in recent months from mesothelioma, a form of 
 ACKERMAN-Bernat. On October 8, 2000. Devoted husband of Priscilla, beloved father of Vivian and Everett, cherished brother of Irving, Naftali and Hani. Loved and admired by many grandchildren, nieces, nephews and cousins. He was a past President of Congregation Sons of Israel, Yonkers and p
 BAUDOIN-Charles. On October 4, 2000. Memorial service Friday, October 13, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Thanks to Scandinavia Foundation, the Ackerman Institute or to the charity of your choice.       
 CHINMAN-Lance. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Matthew and Sarah, Elizabeth and Bill Balber. Dear brother of Doris Scher and Joan Zeisler. Memorial service 8PM Wednesday, October 11, at ''Gutterman's'', 175 Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centre, LI. CHINMAN-Lance. ''Nifty Niner'' to n
 COLBERT-Joseph D., Rev. Of Glendale, NY, died on October 10, 2000 at age 67. A Pastor of Saint Pancras R.C. Church, he was ordained May 30, 1959. He is survived by dear sister, Maureen McMahon. Visitation Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M., Thursday 2-5 at George Werst Funeral Home, 7141 Cooper Ave
 COLBERT-Rev. Joseph D. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of St. Pancras Church, 72-22 68th Street, Glendale on October 10. Reposing at George Werst Funeral Home, 71-41 Cooper Ave, Glendale, Wednesday, October 11, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM and Thursday, October 12, fr
 DAVIDSON-Walter F. Died September 22nd. A native of Hinsdale, Illinois, he is survived by two sisters Margery Rucker and Gail Bazzarre who both live in Virginia. A private family memorial will be held at a future date.       
 ENGLE-Ralph L., Jr., M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University and New YorkPresbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear colleague and friend, Dr. Ralph Engle, on October 7. Dr. Engle, wh
 FREEMAN-Morris (Marty). A printer and teletype operator at the New York Times for more than twenty years died in his sleep on Saturday, October 7 at the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village, his home for the past year. A W.W. II veteran stationed in Africa, he began his life-long love 
 INFIELD-Elaine. On October 9, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Lou. Loving mother of Warren Infield and his wife Nina David, and Linda Rosengard. Cherished gandmother of Daniela, Marco, Jennifer and Mark William. Dear sister of Jean Schwartz, Rose Fishbein, Irene Jaray, Martha Pintel and the 
 KEELY-Jane B. Of Red Bank on October 9, 2000. Retired Appliance Editor for The Hearst Corp. at Good Housekeeping Magazine. Wife of the late Harry Keely, Stepmother of Harry A. Keely and Elsie Smith, Sister of Richard and his wife Charlotte Bartholomae, Aunt of Gregory and Eric Bartholomae. 
 LEHMAN-Jack H. Jr., 82. Of Boynton Beach, Florida and Oakhurst, New Jersey. Died peacefully at home on October 10, 2000. Most loving and caring husband of Barbara. Adored father, teacher and friend of Bill L. Feist and Jack H. Lehman III. Wonderful and generous Poppop of Jeffrey and John Fe
 LIEBERMAN-Hillel. The Yeshivah of Flatbush mourns the tragic passing of Hillel Lieberman, ''al Kiddush Hashem'' at the Tomb of Joseph. We offer heartfelt condolences to his parents, our esteemed former H.S. Principal, Honorary Member of our Board of Education and Rabbi of Cong. Beit Torah, 
 LIEBERMAN-Hillel Eliyahu. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn with profound sorrow the tragic death of a devoted Yeshiva College alumnus murdered by an enraged and incited Palestinian mob near Joseph's Tomb-thus becoming the latest martyr fo
 MICHELSON-Rabbi A. Elihu. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, age 90. Ordained in 1935, Rabbi Michelson served as chaplain in World War II after which he was a rabbi in Altoona, PA. He was the director of the Jewish Chaplaincy Commission from 1952 until his
 ROCHLIN-Benjamin. On October 8, 2000, in his 92nd year. Husband of the late Ruth Kaltman Rochlin and Esther Zimmerman Rochlin. Father of Alfreda Finkelstein (Martin) and Gail Rochlin-Meyer. Grandfather of Ruth Sheinfield (Michael) and William Stein. Brother of Mordecai Rochlin. Funeral serv
 SCHWALB-Nathan. On October 9, 2000-Yom Kippur. Beloved husband of Vivian. Cherished godfather of Elissa. Adoring ''great godfather'' of Nina and Sasha. Dear brother of Rose and brother-in-law of Frank. Fond uncle and good friend. Services today, 11AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and A
 STEELE-Ken. NAMI-NYC Metro offers condolences to family and friends as we mourn the loss of our much loved colleague and friend. Ken Steele-mental health consumer advocate, founder and publisher of ''New York City Voices'', director of the Voter Empowerment Project, founder of the ''Awakeni
 WEXLER - Betty. Congregation Talmud Torah Adereth El wishes to express our heartfelt condolences to our dear member, Robert Wexler, on the loss of his mother, Betty Wexler. May he be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 Wojciech Has, a prize-winning Polish filmmaker whose best-known work, a black-and-white surrealist epic called ''The Saragossa Manuscript,'' acquired a cult following when it was released in the United States in 1965, died on Oct. 3 in Lodz, Poland. He was 75. He suffered from diabe
 David Dukes, a veteran television, film and stage actor who won critical acclaim for his performance as a homosexual persecuted by the Nazis in the Broadway production of ''Bent,'' died on Monday in Spanaway, Wash., near Tacoma. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a he
 Donald Dewar, a lifelong Labor politician whose devotion to greater power for Scotland was rewarded in 1999 when he became first minister of the first Scottish Parliament in almost 300 years, died of a brain hemorrhage today at a hospital in Edinburgh, aides said. He was 63. Mr. Dew
 He called it his ''cross-country schizophrenic odyssey,'' 32 years spent in state hospital wards, homeless shelters and halfway houses from New York to San Francisco, the passage of time obscured in a haze of psychosis, and the sedation brought on by the powerful drugs once used to treat it
 AUSTIN-Maurice. The Baruch community records with sorrow the passing of Maurice Austin, Class of '25, distinguished tax lawyer, scholar and dedicated alumnus. For much of his busy life he taught Baruch students the fine points of accountancy while also serving with distinction as an early m
 BASS-Milton. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Milton Bass. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Marlene Bass, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Paul Seidenber
 BAUDOIN-Charles. On October 4, 2000. Memorial service Friday, October 13, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Thanks to Scandinavia Foundation, the Ackerman Institute or to the charity of your choice.       
 DRELLICH-Marvin G. M.D. The faculty of the Psychoanalytic Institute and The Department of Psychiatry at New York Medical College mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and share our sadness with his wife Helen and their family. Dr. Drellich was an outstanding teacher, clinician, mentor an
 EIDLER-Harold. The employees of Spiegel Associates express their deepest sympathies to Alan Eidler our Chief Executive Officer, his mother Harriet & his sister Bonnie over the loss of his father, Harold Eidler on October 10, 2000.       
 HORNE-Marc Bruce, 42 yrs., of Jericho on October 8, 2000. Beloved husband and soulmate of Fran Kiperman-Horne for 7 years. Loving father of Jason, Jennifer, and Christopher. Survived by his adoring mother Zelda; his father Harvey and stepmother Minerva; and by Beth, Sol, Neil, Troy and Aman
 LEHMAN-Jack H. Jr., 82. Of Boynton Beach, Florida and Oakhurst, New Jersey. Died peacefully at home on October 10, 2000. Most loving and caring husband of Barbara. Adored father, teacher and friend of Jill L. Feist and Jack H. Lehman III. Wonderful and generous Poppop of Jeffrey and John Fe
 LIEBERMAN-Hillel. We mourn the tragic death of Hillel Lieberman, modest in all ways, but in his love of Eretz Yisrael and his faith in Hashem. We extend our love to his wife Yael and seven children, Rabbi Zvulun and Bracha Lieberman and sisters Tehila and Elyorah. May they be comforted amon
 NEEDLEMAN-Max, MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Psychiatry in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Max Needleman, M.D. Beginning with his residency in 1935, Dr. Needleman ser
 SCHREIBER-Maurice, Dr., passed away on October 8, 2000, comfortably in his home in his 93rd year. Devoted husband of Florence Chaytin, loved father of Carol and Hal, dear grandfather of Todd and Jeffrey, beloved physician to many. A kind, honorable and moral man. Rest peacefully.       
 SPRUCH-Harry. Our treasured friend and longtime associate passed away on October 9. Everybody in our industry knew and loved ''Big H''. His passing leaves a big void in our midst. Our hearts go out to his beloved Bashie, daughters Susan, Cory, son-in-law Richard & adored granddaughter Felic
 STEELE-Ken. The faculty and staff of the New York State Psychiatric Institute mourn the loss of Ken Steele, a devoted friend and advocate of the mentally ill. As a member of our Institutional Review Board and as a guest lecturer, he vigorously represented the patient's perspective to us. St
 VALZOANO-Luciano. On October 9 at age 80. Beloved partner of Lillian. Devoted father and grandpa. His family will miss him.       
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon. Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15-10/26/87       
 NOLAN-Frank A. In loving memory of our beloved father, grandfather, and great-grandfather on 0ctober 12th., his 100th birthday       
 Charles Hartshorne, a philosopher, theologian and educator who wrote more than 20 books and 100 articles in a lifelong mission to prove that God was a participant in cosmic evolution rather than the supreme composer, died on Tuesday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 103. Dr. Hartsh
 Dr. Hendrik B. G. Casimir, a leading theorist of quantum mechanics, has died at age 90. He died May 4 in the Dutch town of Heeze; his death was reported in a recent issue of the magazine Physics Today, a publication of the American Institute of Physics. He is best known for 
 FORMICOLA-Albert A. of Rye Brook, NY. On October 11, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Yolanda. Loving father of Carl and the late Janet. Dear grandfather of Jennifer, Katie, Leah, Michael and Jamie Cobelli. Also survived by his son-in-law Dr. Neil Cobelli and his wife Marcie, his brother F
 GRAD-Gary Jordan, MD. Beloved husband of Linda. Devoted father of Jennifer and Jason. Adored son of Rosalie & Phil. Loving brother of Sheldon and Charles. Service Friday, 12 noon at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street and Madison Avenue, New York City. GRAD-Dr. Gary. The Officers, Tr
 HOLDEN-Bob. Born March 19, 1945. Passed away in Los Angeles on October 6 after a long illness. Survived by his life partner, Steve Montgomery, cousins Cathi Clemente and Barbara Washa, and many friends. Donations: American Cancer Society and Project Angel Food.       
 KHAZANEH-Dr. Abbas. We were deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Dr. K. He was a wonderful, friendly, caring man who will be missed by all who knew him. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Khazaneh family. Jeffrey Haber Michael Fischman       
 LIEBERMAN-Hillel. Tha National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the brutal murder of Rabbi Hillel Lieberman, H.Y.D., killed while on his way to save sacred Jewish books from desecration by rioting Palestinians. Condolences to his wife and children, his parents, Rabbi and Mrs. Zevulun Lieberma
 MARINO-Gaspare. Son of Domenico and Caterina. Prominent restauranteur and amateur opera singer in the New York City scene since the early 1950's. Well respected in the community and leader of his extensive family, died October 11 in his retirement retreat in Bagheria, Sicily, just outside t
 NEEDLEMAN-Max, M.D. The members of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of our esteeemd colleague, Dr. Max Needleman, a member for over fifty years. We extend our sincere condolences to his son, Dr. Jack Needleman and his family and friends. Philip Herschenfeld, 
 PARKER-Kellis. The Columbia Law School faculty, staff and nearly three decades of students deeply mourn the untimely passing of Professor Kellis Parker, a member of the faculty since 1972. Professor Parker's classes in contract law and seminars on the music industry, remedies, and the roots
 PATEL-Mahendra, M.D. of Roslyn, N.Y. on October 12, 2000 after a valiant fight against lung cancer. Beloved husband of Dr. Surekha Patel, devoted father of Dr. Anshul and Lipi; also survived by four brothers and two sisters. Dr. Patel was Chief of Neuroradiology at Long Island Jewish Medica
 REED-Jesse. Your poker pals mourn the passing of our beloved Jesse. He was special and he will be missed. Sam Friedman, George Fox Jay M. Gould, Beatrice Jones Brian Padol, Kathryn Popper Sam Siegel, Abbey Simon Jonathan Swiller       
 ROBINSON - Horace Brookes Blackwell. The Board of Trustees of NYU Downtown Hospital note with sadness the passing of Horace B.B. Robinson, a distinguished officer and life trustee of the Board for more than five decades. Mr. Robinson was a great nephew of Elizabeth Blackwell, M.D., a founde
 RYAN-John Francis, 88, on October 11, 2000, of Brightwaters, LI. Devoted husband of the late Catherine Muller Ryan. Cherished father of John F. Ryan, Jr., Patricia Armstrong, Elizabeth Torphy, Frances McKeon, Jean Casey, Robert K. Ryan and Mary Pat Ryan. Fun-loving grandfather of 14 and one
 STORPER-Sidney. Beloved husband of Charlotte; loving father of Marsha and Larry Brooks, Henry and Fran Storper; devoted grandfather of Scott, David and Andrew Storper, Beth and Seth Joseph, and Scott's fiancee Claudia Arzate; and bedazzled great-grandfather of Samantha Joseph, passed away T
 SUSSMAN-Charles ''Chuck''. The Officers and the Board of Directors of the Merrick Jewish Centre, Congregation OHR Torah, mourn the passing of our dear member Charles ''Chuck'' Sussman on October 6 and extend our sincere condolences to his wife Elaine and the entire family. May they know no 
 WINTER-Robert. On October 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Claire. Loving father of Karen and Joel Lamm, Ann and Richard Winter. Devoted grandfather of Jordan and Ben Laser, Samantha and Justin Winter, Adam and Jenna Lamm. Services Friday October 13th. I. J. Morris, Dix Hills, L.I. 12:15PM. He 
 DOHERTY-Thomas Charles. On August 4, 2000 in the Bronx, NY. A memorial service will be held Saturday, October 14, 11 AM at St. Philip Neri RC Church, 201st Street and the Grand Concourse. Mr. Doherty was a staunch advocate for housing for disabled senior citizens. He leaves two sons, Thomas
 Col. Pat Porteous, who as a captain in the British commandos received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for leading a bayonet charge on a major German gun battery during the Dieppe raid in World War II, died Monday. He was 82. During the early m
 Emile Kuri, an Oscar-winning set decorator who also contributed designs to Disneyland and Walt Disney World, died on Tuesday at the Motion Picture Country Home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Kuri won two Academy Awards for set decoration, the first for William Wyler's 1949
 Leslie Kish, an authority on scientific population sampling who predicted President Harry S. Truman's upset victory over Thomas E. Dewey in 1948, died on Oct. 7 in a hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 90 and lived in Ann Arbor. Professor Kish and the influence of his teachings ''fu
 Manuel Martin, a director and playwright who used theater to explore the Cuban experience in the United States, died on Sept. 28 in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Arcadio Ruiz-Castellano. In the Hispanic-American the
 ERANI-Norman ''Nissim''. Beloved husband of Dorine, devoted father to Vivian, Olivia and Jane, and sweet inspiration to his grandchildren, Seth, Lisa, Darya and Juliette, a tzadik and leader of his Community. Funeral services at 10 AM on Monday, October 16 at Riverside-Nassau North, 55 Nort
 GRAD-Gary, M.D. The Horace Mann community records with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Gary Grad, adored father of Jennifer and Jason, and loving husband of Dr. Linda Grad. We have lost a courageous, loyal and devoted friend. He was a compassionate, wise and committed individual. Our heartfe
 HERZLIZH-Harry. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MONTGOMERY-Marshall Hugh 91, retired Senior Vice-President of A.J. Lanston, New York, died Wednesday, October 11 in Delray Beach, Fla. Mr. Montgomery was a graduate of Middlebury College Class of 1931. He is survived by his wife Prudence Ingham.       
 O'STEEN - Sam. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the sudden death of our devoted member, Sam O'Steen. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Barbara, daughters Molly and Daniele, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 PARKER-Kellis. The Columbia Law School faculty, staff and nearly three decades of students deeply mourn the untimely passing of Professor Kellis Parker, a member of the faculty since 1972. Professor Parker's classes in contract law and seminars on the music industry, remedies, and the roots
 ROSANO-Michael. Gay and Lesbian Independent Democrats mourn the passing of longtime member, Michael Rosano. His dedication, friendship and humor enriched us all.       
 RYAN-John Francis, 88, on October 11, 2000, of Brightwaters, LI. Devoted husband of the late Catherine Muller Ryan. Cherished father of John F. Ryan, Jr., Patricia Armstrong, Elizabeth Torphy, Frances McKeon, Jean Casey, Robert K. Ryan and Mary Pat Ryan. Fun-loving grandfather of 14 and one
 STEIN-Joseph. Beloved husband of Blanche. Loving father of Mariana, Mark, Lisa and Cheryl. Loving granddad to Yarusha, Roshina, Adam, Leah, Maddy and Emily. Loving father-in-law of Jeffrey and Douglas. Friend to all who he touched. We will miss your strength and beauty.       
 WOLLMAN-Michael. New York Metropolitan Region of The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the untimely loss of the brother of our Vice President Carole Korowitz. Our condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Eugene D. Zinbarg, President Bruce F. Greenfie
 William Melville Farrell, a former reporter for The New York Times, died at a nursing home in Huntington, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 89. In his 47-year career at The Times, Mr. Farrell worked his way up from copy boy during his high school days to writing guest columns to covering the 
 Daniel H. Lavezzo Jr., who for more than half a century as an owner of P. J. Clarke's saloon offered patrons from ironworkers to movie stars the comforts of cold beer, a dark refuge and juicy hamburgers, died of heart failure Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 83. Clarke's, on Th
 Frank J. Prial II, publisher of The Chief, a newspaper for government workers in New York City, died Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Greenwich. The cause was pulmonary failure, his family said. Mr. Prial's grandfather, Frank J. Prial, bought the 
 Gregory Christopher Reynolds, a dancer and choreographer, died on Sept. 21 at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Reynolds died after a long illness, his sister Jean said. Born in Washington, Mr. Reynolds graduated from S
 BREMS-Hans J. On Sept. 16, 2000 in Urbana, Illinois, at age 84. Beloved husband of Ulla for 56 years. Devoted father of Lisa Brayton, Marianne Brems and Karen Kurreck. Brother of Niels Brems. He was retired as a Professor of Economics at the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign. Born i
 ERANI-Norman ''Nissim''. Beloved husband of Dorine, devoted father to Vivian, Olivia and Jane, and sweet inspiration to his grandchildren, Seth, Lisa, Darya and Juliette, a tzadik and leader of his Community. Funeral services at 10 AM on Monday, October 16 at Riverside-Nassau North, 55 Nort
 HERMAN-Harold. 91, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved husband of the late Ida (nee Jaffe). Father of Stephen (Elizabeth) and the late Henry Richard. Brother of the late Irma Meyer. Grandfather of Hunter and Sasha. His was a life of love. Funeral services Monday, 11 AM
 LAMBERT-Arthur W. North Andover, MA, 91 died October 11, 2000. From 1955-75 he was an elementary and junior high school teacher in various schools in NYC. Widower of Babette (McLaine). He is survived by three sons, James of North Andover, Peter and Thomas, both of Denver, a sister Claire Fo
 LIEBERMAN-Hillel Eliyahu. Congregation Beth Torah mourns with deep sorrow the tragic murder of Hillel Lieberman, OBM, son of our beloved Rabbi Zevulun Lieberman. He was a kind and gentle person who dedicated and gave his life for the integrity of the land of Israel. Hillel was murdered by a
 MARTINEAU-Cyril Francis, 92. Died in Atlanta, GA, October 4, 2000, at his son's home. Retired Advertising Manager of Shell Oil Co., USA. Longtime resident of Tuxedo Park, New York. Born in London, March 13, 1908, the son of Cyril Edgar Martineau and Muriel Delano Robbins. Cousin of Franklin
 MEDINE-William S. 95 years old, on Tuesday, October 10 in Arlington, VA. Bill, whose former residence was West Palm Beach, FL, died quietly in his sleep at home. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife Edith. He is deeply mourned by his daughters Amy Medine Stein & Laurie Alexander. He
 PARSONS-Marselis C., Jr. Of Lyme, NH. Died Friday, September 22, 2000 in Hanover, NH. He was born in Rye, NY, August 30, 1904, son of Marselis and Jessie Parsons of Furzen Hill-now the Rye Nature Center. He worked on Wall Street, then for U.S. Senator Royal Copeland of New York, before ente
 ROSANO-Michael. Political activist, respected publicist, and devoted friend. He began his career in public television at Channel 13. He worked for Manhattan Borough President and City Council President Andrew Stein as deputy press secretary and for City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman as a c
 SCHUCKMAN-Harold. Respected retired profesor and former Chairman of Department of Psychology of Queens College. Son of Sam and Evelyn Schuckman. Beloved husband of Sally Schuckman. Loving father of Alisa, Larry and Harvey. Loving father-in-law of Rick, Kathleen and Jenny, and loving grandfa
 SCHWEITZER - Irving. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Devoted father of Mel. A beautiful, sweet, gentle soul. He will be sorely missed by everyone he touched; Maxine and all his loved ones, and his extended family of friends and admirers. Service Monday, 12:30 PM, at Park Avenue Synagogue
 STEIN-Joseph. Beloved husband of Blanche. Loving father of Mariana, Mark, Lisa and Cheryl. Loving granddad to Yarusha, Roshina, Adam, Leah, Maddy and Emily. Loving father-in-law of Jeffrey and Douglas. Friend to all who he touched. We will miss your strength and beauty.       
 STORPER-Sidney. Beloved husband of Charlotte; loving father of Marsha and Larry Brooks, Henry and Fran Storper; devoted grandfather of Scott, David and Andrew Storper, Beth and Seth Joseph, and Scott's fiancee Claudia Arzate; bedazzled great-grandfather of Samantha Joseph and devoted brothe
 WHITESIDE-Thomas. Of Needham, MA. Died Oct. 12. Survived by his former wife Christiana B. Whiteside and predeceased by his wife Ruth F. Whiteside. Father of Judith Whiteside and Janet W. Cooke both of Wareham and Thomas Whiteside, Jr. of No. Attleboro. Also survived by six grandchildren. Br
 WINBURN-Richard Gardner. 82, died on October 12, 2000 in Oklahoma City, OK. Born on July 31, 1918, he moved from NYC to Oklahoma City in September of 1998. Dick was the fourth generation of a family of photographers. He worked for Neiman Marcus, The New York Times, and Manufacturers Hanover
 PATTERSON-John T. Jr. The family of John T. Patterson, Jr. will hold a commemoration of his life and legacy on Saturday, October 21, 2000 at 2 PM at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Malcolm X Boulevard (Lenox Avenue), New York City.       
 TINKER-Robert Lee. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated for Robert Tinker at Holy Family Church, 317 East 47th Street, NYC on Tuesday, October 17th at 10:00 A.M. Contributions to Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc, 120 Wall Street, NYC 10005 or The William Way Community Center, 1315 
 Peter Turgeon, an actor, writer and director, died on Oct. 6 at the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook. He was 80 and lived in Amagansett, N.Y. Mr. Turgeon began his theatrical career in 1940, playing one of the Day family children in a touring production of ''Life With 
 Kellis E. Parker, one of five black students who integrated the University of North Carolina four decades ago and went on to become the first black law professor at Columbia University, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause of death 
 Vincent Canby, whose lively wit and sophisticated tastes illuminated film and theater reviews in The New York Times for more than 35 years, died yesterday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer. In an era of en
 Archbishop Joseph T. Ryan, who was the spiritual leader for more than two million Roman Catholics as the first archbishop of the Archdiocese for the Military Services, died Oct. 9 in Albany. He was 86 and lived in Albany. In 1985, Pope John Paul II appointed Archbishop Ryan to lead 
 Britt Woodman, a trombonist who was an important member of Duke Ellington's band during the 1950's and an early associate of Charles Mingus, died on Friday at the Robert F. Kennedy Medical Center in Hawthorne, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Los Angeles. Proper training is obvious in 
 BENJAMIN-Louis J. The officers, members & staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Louis J. Benjamin of Sarasota, FL., an illustrious leader of our organization. As Technion Guardians, he and his wife Miriam demonstrated the highest level of commit
 CANBY-Vincent. His passion for the movies, his sheer enjoyment of them and his championing of the independents made him a delight to work with. A man of integrity, humor and rigor. We owe him so much. Karen Cooper, Bruce Goldstein, Film Forum CANBY-Vincent. The ''Toxic Avenger'' and
 DEMPSEY-Louis F. Of New York City died at home on October 16, 2000. Dearest and beloved husband of Patricia. Devoted father of Maryann Sedlack (Jeffrey) of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Patricia Hammond (William) of Summit, New Jersey, Kathleen Malhame (George) of Manhasset, New York, Louis F. De
 EDLICH-Theodore, Jr., M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the medical staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, who served our institution for may years. Dr. Edlich was a decicated physician who always showed sincere concern for his
 HERENDEEN-Thomas G. Jr. of Manhattan died on October 13 following an extended illness. During World War II he served in the US Navy taking part in seven invasions including D-Day. He retired from Stern Brothers after 27 years as an advertising executive. He is survived by Noemi Carrera, his
 HERMAN-Harold. 91, of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved husband of the late Ida (nee Jaffe). Father of Stephen (Elizabeth) and the late Henry Richard. Brother of the late Irma Meyer. Grandfather of Hunter and Sasha. His was a life of love. Funeral services Monday, 11 AM
 LAVITT-Sanford (Sandy) Mark. Of Woodbury L.I. on October 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Jason and Keith. Loving brother of Carole Adler, Thelma Rosenberg and Arthur Lavitt. Funeral service 11AM today, Midway Jewish Center, Syosset, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, memorial c
 LEIBOWITZ-Samuel W. Beloved husband of the late Sadie (Selevan) and Ruth (Friedman). Father of Harold, Elihu and Reuben. Grandfather of nine, great-grandfather of six. He was blessed with a long, active life and will be missed. Burial was yesterday; shiva after Yom Tov. LEIBOWITZ-Sa
 LEWIS-Stanley A. He died the way he lived-stubbornly refusing to take no for an answer. His last battle was fought with courage, strength, perseverance and dignity. His tenaciousness was also reflected in his business and charitable endeavors. His fierce love for his family will never be fo
 MAYERS-Jack A, 91, of Springfield, NJ (formerly of Maplewood and Newark, NJ). On October 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Freda (nee Samberg), devoted father of Claire Nierenberg, of South Orange, NJ, and Sandy Mayers, of Riverdale, NY, devoted father-inlaw of Aaron Nierenberg, & loving grandfa
 POWERS-James C. On October 15, 2000. Beloved son of Margaret and the late Liam. Loving brother of William and the late Beatrice Dennehy, Thomas, Michael and James' twin brother Stephen. Also survived by fifteen nieces and nephews, and many great nieces and nephews, and also left behind his 
 SCHLACHET-Dr. Peter J. On October 15, 2000. Mourned by his sons David, Daniel and Joshua, daughter-in-law Lisa, grandson Gabriel, and his life partner Anna Aragno, and her daughters Natasha and Katya. He will also be missed by his cousins, dear friends, and colleagues in the psychoanalytic 
 SCHLACHET-Peter. The Staff, Faculty and Trustees of Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourn the passing of Peter Schlachet, Ph.D., distinguished faculty member, senior supervisor, psychoanalyst and author. His contributions to our individual and group training programs and to the develo
 SCHLACHET-Peter J. The Eastern Group Psychotherapy Society (EGPS) mourns the death of their esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Schlachet served as a leader of our professional community. He was a Past President (1989-1991), Book Review Editor and Editor of the EGPS professional journal, GRO
 SCHWARTZ-Arthur Y. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Merrick Jewish Centre, Congregation Ohr Torah, mourn the passing of our dear member and extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Ann, and family. May they know no more sorrow. Barry M. Lasky, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein  
 STANLEY-Ira. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Ira Stanley. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his wife Jane and family. Bernard Steinweg, President David Herschberg, Secre
 STARK-Daniel. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely passing of Daniel Stark, beloved son of ADL National Commissioner George Stark and his wife Lois, of Houston. We extend our deepest condolences to George and Lois and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraha
 WAKS-William. On October 10 at age 91. Loving husband of the late Bella, beloved father of Sandy, Ira and Stuart, grandfather of David, Alexandra, Jonathon and Robert. We will miss him.       
 Theodore M. Berry, a civil rights leader who became Cincinnati's first black mayor after serving as a high official in President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, died Sunday at a nursing home in Loveland, a Cincinnati suburb. He was 94. Mr. Berry fought for racial equality as a c
 Bruce Palmer Jr., deputy commanding general of American troops in South Vietnam, later Army vice chief of staff and then the author of a book analyzing the military failure of the United States in Southeast Asia, died on Oct. 10 at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 87. General Pa
 Dr. Konrad E. Bloch, who won a Nobel Prize for explaining how cholesterol is formed in the body, died Sunday at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 88 and lived in Lexington, Mass. When Dr. Bloch won the Nobel, in 1964, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, which chooses the 
 In recent years, supporters of Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri had taken to wearing gold lapel pins shaped like straight arrows. The symbolism was clear: Mr. Carnahan's dominant characteristic as a politician was his reputation for being clean and on the level. He was not a scintillat
 ABRAMOWITZ-Louis. Everyone knew him as ''Poppy'', but others called him Lou. He left us just shy of his 99th year. We will all miss him so very much. It was a great life and here's to a good trip. Louis Abramowitz, born February 1, 1902, died October 12, 2000.       
 BORIS-Martin. An unusual man of dignity and distinction. You have left indelible impressions on the lives of our family and so many others. Best friend and most special husband for 48 years to Gloria. Cherished father to Elizabeth, Ron, Adam, Shirley, Haryn and Noel. Grandfather/Poppa extra
 DEMPSEY-Louis F. Of New York City died at home on October 16, 2000. Dearest and beloved husband of Patricia. Devoted father of Maryann Sedlack (Jeffrey) of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Patricia Hammond (William) of Summit, New Jersey, Kathleen Malhame (George) of Manhasset, New York, Louis F. De
 FARENGA-William T. On October 16, 2000. Dear friend of Henry O. Golightly, brother of Charles Farenga, long term member of NSID. He was a noted interior designer in the metropolitan area for many years. Memorial Service Friday October 20, 2000, at 11 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 FONER-Samuel Newton. Of Temple Terrace, FL. (Tampa area) on Saturday, October 14, 2000. Born March 21, 1920 in New York City, died of cancer. Dr. Foner, an atomic and molecular physicist was a specialist in mass spectrometry and molecular beams. He worked on the Manhattan project during WWI
 GLADING-John. The Officers and Directors of the PSAL Wingate Memorial Fund mourn the passing Monday, Oct. 16, 2000 of John Glading, the former Assistant Director of Health & Physical Education, and Director of the Public Schools Athletic League of New York City. John was a long-time Preside
 LABRECQUE - Thomas. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Thomas Labrecque, a dedicated Board member and friend. He served on the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, chaired the HSS Inter
 LAVITT-Sanford. The American Camping Association-NY Section is deeply saddened by the loss of Sandy Lavitt, a leader & dedicated supporter of S.C.O.P.E. (Summer Camp Opportunities Provide an Edge), a program that sends inner-city children to summer camp. Sandy was a unique individual whose 
 LEWIS-Stanley. The Board of Trustees and the Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the death of Stanley Lewis, father of Jonathan and Jordan, Fieldston Classes of 1988 and 1991. We extend our sincere condolences to the family. James A. Gara '72 and S. Donald Sussman C
 PATEL-Mahendra, MD. With a profound sense of loss, we mourn the passing of our good friend and colleague, Mahendra Patel, MD. As an outstanding physician, he treated so many patients with compassion and humility; as an exceptional educator, he taught countless residents and medical students
 ROSENTHAL-Tim. We of the National Cartoonists Society profoundly mourn the untimely loss of our beloved friend, Tim Rosenthal, whose spirit, decency, professionalism, good will and boundless generosity graced our ranks for many years. Beyond all that, we will long remember Tim's incredible 
 SEGELSTEIN-Norman. On Oct. 17, 2000 in his 73rd year. Retired computer consultant. Beloved father of Barbara. Brother of Irwin & the late Sidney. Loving former husband of Lois Schachter. Beloved member of a warm and special family. U.S. Navy veteran, WWII. Graduate of Syracuse University. E
 SOLOMON-Nathaniel H. October 16th. at Beth Israel Hospital, NYC. Devoted husband of 59-1/2 yrs of Miriam. Beloved father of Shelah and Charles. Loving grandfather of Samuel, Alexa and Molly. His great passion was the practice of pediatrics which he devoted 53 years. He served in General Pat
 HODGSON-William John. The friends of William J. Hodgson will hold a Memorial Service to celebrate his life at The House of the Redeemer, 7 East 95th Street, NYC, at 4:30 P.M. on Wednesday 25th of October, 2000.       
 Cardinal Pietro Palazzini, a retired Vatican official who was honored by Israel for rescuing an Italian Jew in the Holocaust, died in Rome last Wednesday. He was 88. Pope John Paul II delivered the eulogy on Friday at Cardinal Palazzini's funeral at St. Peter's, recalling his role i
 Sam O'Steen, a film editor whose work brought him three Academy Award nominations, died on Wednesday in Atlantic City. He was 76 and lived in New York. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Kathleen. Mr. O'Steen became fascinated with filmmaking as a boy growing up
 Thomas G. Labrecque, the former chairman and chief executive of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Mr. Labrecque died of lung cancer, which was diagnosed in early September, a spokesman for his family said. He was 62 a
 Harry Cooper, the hard-luck Hall of Fame golfer who had 31 victories on the PGA Tour in the 1920's and 1930's but never won any of what are now considered the four major tournaments, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 96. Cooper's 31 triumphs share 13th place on the PGA
 BASRI-Albert. Died October 18, 2000. Loving husband, father and grandfather. He leaves his wife, Annette Iny Basri, of Lakewood, NJ; children, Dr. Raymond Basri of Middletown, NY, Dr. William Basri of Marlboro, NJ, and Carole Basri of NYC and Deal, NJ. A physician for over 35 years at Paul 
 FARENGA-William T. On October 16, 2000. Dear friend of Henry O. Golightly, brother of Charles Farenga, long term member of NSID. He was a noted interior designer in the metropolitan area for many years. Memorial Service Friday October 20, 2000, at 11 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison 
 GOLD-Max (Larry). Of Fairlawn, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Ray. Cherished father of Ava (Roger) Brown, Marion and Stanley. Loving grandfather of Taylor and Scott. His smile, humor and great strength will live on in the hearts of his loved ones. I join his family in mourning his loss. Jer
 GOLUB-David. The Herbert Barrett Management, Herbert Barrett, President; John A. Anderson, Executive Vice President; Mary Lynn Fixler, Vice President; Rob Robbins, Vice President; Nancy Wellman, Senior Advisor and Personal Manager to Mr. Golub, mourn the sudden passing of the extraordinary 
 HIRSCH-Francys. Forever in our hearts! Oma, you were one of a kind and will be dearly missed. Mark, Jill, Julia, Emily and Katie HIRSCH-Francys. World Metals Corp. and its staff extend deepest condolences to the family of Francys Hirsch, who died at the blessed age of 101. Our heart
 HUNT-William E., 77. October 14, 2000. Producer and Director. Bill founded the Red Barn & Tinker's Pond theaters on Long Island and co-designed Theater East in Manhattan. He directed well over 100 plays and reviews, many of which he adapted, off Broadway and in Stock from 1953-1999 includin
 KLEINMAN-Herbie Edward. Untimely passing October 17, 2000, just shy of his 30th birthday on November 1. Wonderful light of all our lives. Adored son of Nedra and Louis; best friend of brother Eric; beloved friend to so many people from childhood through his adult years. Everyone who met you
 LABRECQUE-Thomas. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York regret the passing of Thomas Labrecque, former chairman and chief executive of Chase Manhattan Corporation. We join the leadership in our Banking & Finance Division in extending sincerest condolences
 LEIBOWITZ-Samuel W. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Samuel Leibowitz, a friend and supporter of this organization, whose life and good deeds are continued by his sons and family. To his sons, Reuben, Harold, and Elihu, and to th
 SCHOENBAUM-Fred S. Of White Plains, NY, on October 17, 2000. Fred was predeceased by his wife, Vera. Dear father of Lucy Schmolka and Marjorie Trachtenberg; father-in-law of Lenny Schmolka; grandfather of Andrew and Gregory Schmolka and Beth Trachtenberg; great-grandfather of Jordan and Cor
 Whitman Hobbs, an advertising agency executive and columnist whose voice was heard interviewing advertisers in television and radio commercials that he created for The New Yorker in the 1970's, died on Oct. 8 in Bradenton, Fla. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, according to hi
 Art Coulter, one of the National Hockey League's top defensemen of the 1930's, the captain of the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup championship team and a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame, died Saturday in Mobile, Ala. He was 91. An outstanding puck-handler and a durable player, Coulter w
 Arthur M. Goldberg, who parlayed a small stake in a struggling gambling company into control of the nation's largest casino operator, died yesterday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 58. The cause was complications from bone marrow failure, according to Michael W. Kempn
 David Golub, a pianist and conductor, who was seen as Isaac Stern's accompanist in the 1979 film ''From Mao to Mozart'' and who performed regularly with several chamber ensembles, most notably the Golub-Kaplan-Carr Trio, died on Monday at his home in Milan. He was 50 and lived in Milan and 
 BASRI-Dr. Albert S. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend, esteemed pathologist and valued member of the Lakewood, NJ, Jewish community and Iraqi Jewish community. He and his wife, Annette Iny Basri, highly respected member of YU's Sephardic Council of Overse
 COOPER-Harry. Legendary golf professional, inspired and touched so many, passed away October 17. Services Friday, October 20, from 7 PM to 9 PM & Saturday, October 21, 9 AM-10 AM at the Graham Funeral Home, Rye, New York. COOPER-Harry E. The Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Coun
 FOHR-Henry D. On October 18, 2000. Survived by Jennie, his much beloved wife of 67 years. Devoted and loving father of Samuel. Adored grandfather of Brad and Sherry. Dear uncle. Former Chairman of the Foreign Language Dept. at Lafayette High School in Brooklyn. Services Friday, October 20, 
 GOLDBERG-Arthur M. Untimely passing on October 19, 2000. Arthur was a loving father, husband and brother and beloved grandfather who will live in our hearts forever. Arthur was an extraordinary man who provided warmth, leadership and inspiration to all those whose lives he touched. He will 
 GOLUB-David. Benita Valente, William Stone and Janice Mayer, of Janice Mayer & Associates LLC., mourn the passing of our gifted and cherished collaborator and friend, pianist, Daivd Golub. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Maria, his family, our colleagues at Herbert Barrett M
 KLEINMAN-Herbie Edward. Untimely passing October 17, 2000, just shy of his 30th birthday on November 1. Wonderful light of all our lives. Adored son of Nedra and Louis; best friend of brother Eric; beloved friend to so many people from childhood through his adult years. Everyone who met you
 LABRECQUE-Thomas G. We mourn the untimely death of our partner and friend, Tom Labrecque. His strength of character and commitment to values was an example for us all. Tom's friendship and counsel will be missed. We are thankful that he was part of our lives and we will remember him always 
 LENTINI-Frank J. 1937-2000. Frank was an innovative contributor to the fashion industry. Besides creating his own clothing line, he was Sr. Vice President for the 500 Fashion Group and President of the International Association of Clothing Designers and Executives. He leaves behind a wife, 
 LIPPMAN-Rabbi Charles David. The leadership and staff of the Beth Israel Medical Center family join with its Department of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care and the Jacob Perlow Hospice in acknowledging with great sadness the untimely death of our beloved friend and devoted colleague, Charl
 MARLOWE-Richard. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Richard Marlowe. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Muriel and family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary       
 MESSING-Louis. On October 18, 2000 at age 89. Devoted husband of Ruth. Loving father of Arnold, Norma and Shelley. Cherished grandfather of Cheryl, Ilene and Noah. May his memory be a blessing.       
 ROVEGNO-George F., of Huntington, on October 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Kathryn, loving father of George Jr., Richard, Kathryn Larkin, Betsy Bozian and Edward. Cherished grandfather of 12. Friends may call at M.A. Connell, 934 New York Ave., Huntington Station, on Friday from 2-5 and 7-9.
 John Worsley, a British artist who as a prisoner of the Germans in World War II hoodwinked guards with a dummy P.O.W. named Albert, later a part of British wartime lore, died Oct. 3 in London. He was 81. Soon after Britain went to war, Kenneth Clark, director of the National Gallery
 DAVEY-Alan. Passed away Oct. 18, 2000, at 64 years of age. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Davey. Loving stepfather of Nina Endler & Thomas Manno. Loving step-grandfather of Anna Endler. Alan worked for 30 years for The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary as an Accountant. He loved traveling, churc
 EDLICH-Theodore, Jr. M.D. The Daughters of Mary and the medical staff of Saint Clare's Hospital and Health Center mourn the loss of our esteemed collegue and friend who served our institution for many years. Dr. Edlich was a dedicated physician who always showed sincere concern for his pati
 GOLDBERG-Arthur M. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our great friend and esteemed Hospital Trust
 GOLUB-David. The Board and staff of Chamber Music Northwest deeply mourn the untimely loss of our esteemed pianist, David Golub. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his family and his many musical colleagues. Portland was immeasurably blessed by David's artistry and friendship over the year
 HIGGINS-Clarence B. Jr, decorated naval aviator, attorney and jazz pianist, passed away Thursday, October 12 in Albany. He was 80 years old and lived in Gilboa, New York, having retired there from Bronxville, NY. In WWII, Mr. Higgins flew carrier missions off the USS Hoggatt Bay as a torped
 JONES-Harry Burton. On October 20, 2000. He leaves behind his wife Laure & two sons, Peter & Kevin. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Monday 11:00 AM St. Anastasia Church in Douglaston. Donations may be made to Nort
 LIPPMAN-Charles D., Rabbi. The Board and congregation of the Temple of Universal Judaism mourns the death of our spiritual guide, teacher, mentor and friend, our beloved Rabbi Charles D. Lippman, D.D. Chuck was our light and inspiration. He was a magnet who drew us together. We will miss hi
 LOCK-Stanley. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death on October 8 of Stanley Lock, faculty member emeritus, pianist, teacher, beloved colleague. His love of music and his superb talent enriched the lives of the entire College community where he taught from 1949-1991. Michele Tol
 McNELIS-Rev. Patrick J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of Immaculate Heart of Mary Church, 2805 Ft. Hamilton Parkway, Brooklyn, on October 19. Reposing in Pitta Funeral Home, 300 McDonald Ave., Brooklyn, on Sunday October 22, from 25 PM. Mass of Transferral on Sun
 SCHIFF-Stanley. On October 19, 2000 at age 90. Survived by Anne, his much beloved wife of 64 years. Devoted father of Posey & Helen (Richard). Former member of the New York Stock Exchange. He will always be remembered for his generosity and love of life. The Family       
 SOLOMON-Nathaniel H., MD. The Officers and membership of the Queens Pediatric Society express their sorrow at the passing of our colleague and an active member of the Society for many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Miriam, and the entire Solomon family. Gaddam Reddy
 Willie Cook, a lyrical lead trumpeter with a soft tone who played in big bands led by Jay McShann, Earl Hines, Dizzy Gillespie and Duke Ellington, died on Sept. 22 in Stockholm. He was 76. He died of heart failure at Maria Regina Hospice in Stockholm, his son Wambi said. Mr.
 Melvin A. Cook, an explosives expert whose innovations helped change the face of warfare and mining, died on Oct. 12 in Salt Lake City. He was 89. When Dr. Cook was studying chemistry in the Yale graduate program in the 1930's, he had no interest in the field of explosives, said one
 BLAINE-Stuart. Died in NYC of cancer on Friday, October 20. Mr. Blaine was born on July 6, 1923. He was was co-founder of the design firm of Blaine and Booth and enjoyed a distinguished career as a designer and actor. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends fortunate to have
 BLOCH-Konrad E. The Board of Directors of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation records with deep sorrow the death of our distinguished friend and colleague on October 15, 2000. As an advisor to the Foundation for over 13 years from 1974 to 1987, he provided critical guidance in developi
 CARP-Annette. All of the attorneys and staff of Mazur, Carp & Rubin extend heartfelt condolences to our beloved founding member, Gerald Carp, and to his family, on the passing of their mother, Annette Carp.       
 DRELLICH-Marvin G., M.D. The American Academy of Psychoanalysis deeply mourns the loss of Marvin G. Drellich, M.D., on October 8, 2000. Dr. Drellich was a PastPresident of the Academy, which he served with vigor, talent, and generosity during its entire 45 year history. Marvin Drellich embo
 FENNELL-Thomas Francis III. Of New York, died October 20, 2000 after a courageous battle with cancer. He was the son of the late Thomas F. Fennell II, and Teresa Winters of New York. He is survived by his beloved wife Jenny McDonagh and brothers Daniel of Wyncote, PA, John of Wilmington, NC
 FENSTER-Arthur (W2EXH). Of Baldwin (formerly of Roosevelt). Beloved husband of Jean. Loving brother to Charles. Devoted father and father-in-law of Fred and Sandy Fenster, Susan and Roy Sparber. Loving grandfather of Jessica, Joshua, Jordan and Sarah, and great - granddaughter, Miriam. Grav
 GOLDBERG-Arthur M. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our great friend and esteemed Hospital Trust
 GOLUB-David. With tremendous sorrow, the Board of Directors, Artist Members and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, mourn the sudden loss of our dear friend & colleague David Golub. An Artist Member since 1993 and an extraordinary pianist, conductor and musical interpreter
 HICKOK-Richard Sanford. Of Brewster, MA. Died October 20, 2000. He is survived by his wife Janet Allsopp Hickok; three sons, Sanford, Steven and Jonathan; a daughter Wendy Peters; eight grandchildren; a brother James K. of Scottsdale, AZ and a sister Sally Bockus of Mountainside, NJ. Mr Hic
 IANNONE-Anthony M., M.D., 75, died peacefully in the home, of cancer on Thursday, October 12. As the founding Chairman of the Neurology Department at the Medical College of Ohio, he established the Neurology residency program and spearheaded research in a variety of specialized fields inclu
 JAY-Joseph. On October 20, 2000 at age 96. Devoted husband of the late Ray, cherished father of Dr. Burton Jay, Dr. Allen Jay, Marlene Jay, Elaine Jay and Dr. Judith Jay. Beloved father-in-law of Susan Jay, Ricky Jay and Dr. Barry Shapiro. Loving grandfather of Michael and Mary, Daniel and 
 LAVITT-Sanford (Sandy) Mark. Of Woodbury L.I. on October 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Jason and Keith. Loving brother of Carole Adler, Thelma Rosenberg and Arthur Lavitt. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to charity. The two organizations Sandy
 LIPPMAN-Charles. We shall miss the love, generosity, guidance, friendship and understanding Chuck shared with us for 30 years. He can never be replaced in our hearts and our lives. Sincere condolences to Alan and his family. The Gilston Family The Goorfin Family       
 REEVES-Robert. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Robert Reeves, founder of the ADL Robert Reeves Institute for First Amendment Freedoms. Robert maintained the tradition of generosity to ADL established by his parents, Minna and Benjamin Reeves. He will be remembered in contin
 SCHNEIDER-Sam. Beloved husband of Sara, loving father of Judy, Ed and Liliane, and Amy and Keith Amchin. Devoted grandfather of Jeremy and Evan Schneider and Livy and Jana Amchin. A gentleman, an artist and a scholar, he was a caring friend to many. Memorial service Sun, October 22, 2000, 2
 SHEPPARD-William M. Died on October 10. 2nd Lieutenant at RMA Sandhurst. Ph.D at Brooklyn College, professor for 25 years. Baritone, actor on London stage. Producer, creator, host of TV series ''Inside The Arts'' 1967-76. Producer, narrator of TV documentaries. Taught voice at Yale Drama Sc
 SHERMAN-Sanford N., 88, on October 10, 2000, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. ''Shep'', a native of Cleveland, a New Yorker for over 50 years and a social worker beginning in the 1930's, was a pioneer in the field of family therapy. He was long employed by Jewish Family Services of New York, retiring
 SIMONS-Alexander. Of Palm Harbor, FL. Died October 19 in Safety Harbor, FL. Born in New York City, Mr. Simons moved to Florida in 1964. An entrepreneur, he was in retail furniture sales in NY, an importer and was a builder and developer in Pinellas County, FL. Surviving family includes his 
 WILHELM-Glenn D. With great sorrow, Mobile Wall One, Inc., greatly mourns the passing of our beloved friend and Chief Executive Officer, Glenn D. Wilhelm at the young age of 50. On behalf of all of the employees at Mobile Wall One, we extend our deepest condolences to his family. You will b
 Zeke Manners, once a popular hillbilly singer and disc jockey and the composer of ''The Pennsylvania Polka,'' among hundreds of other songs, died on Oct. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in West Hollywood. His initial fame came from a publicity ploy in 1930 during the Depressi
 Mitchell Sviridoff, a national leader in urban social policy and philanthropy who played an important role over three decades in developing strategies for lifting people out of poverty and reviving decaying neighborhoods, died early Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81. The ca
 BLAINE-Stuart. Died in NYC of cancer on Friday, October 20. Mr. Blaine was born on July 6, 1923. He was was co-founder of the design firm of Blaine and Booth and enjoyed a distinguished career as a designer and actor. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends fortunate to have
 BRODY-Lowell. A longtime resident of Englewood, NJ, and recently of Southbury, CT, on October 20, 2000, at the age of 77. He was an architect and emeritus member of the AIA. He is survived by his wife Shirley, two sons David Brody of New York and Brooke Brody of West Virginia, a daughter Le
 D'INZILLO-Steve. The officers, members and staff of IATSE Projectionists Union Local 306 mourn the passing of our president and longtime chief officer. He was Representative/former vice president of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, and an activist in progressive civ
 EBY-Frank H. Jr, Ph.D. Of Broomall, PA, age 73, on October 19, 2000. Dr. Eby was a retired Villanova University professor. Beloved husband of 25 years to the late Kathleen (nee Toohey). He is survived by his son Frank H. Eby III (''Butch'') and his daughter, Patricia L. Seltzer and her husb
 GOLDBERG-Arthur M. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law are saddened by the untimely passing of a dear friend, an eminent corporate executive and philanthropist who served with distinction as a member of the CSL Board of Directors for over a decade. He and his wife, 
 RAPHAEL-Robert A. He is deeply grieved by his son Ronald, his daughter-in-law Carol, his grandaughter Lisa, his great-grandson Anthony, his sister Evelyn, and his longtime, dear friend Shirley Sweetman. Services will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 SONENCLAR-Joseph. Beloved husband of the late Bernice. Loving father of Judy and Stanley Adelsheimer and Leslie and Larry Chalson. Dear grandpa of Michael and Ivy Levy, Alan Levy, Maggie and Andrew Chalson, and Erica and Toni Adelsheimer. We'll miss his determination.       
 SWAN-Alfred J. Of Plandome, Long Island, NY, who died at home October 21, 2000, lived a life of supporting and caring for his family, friends and community. His wife Ruth (Dattner), his daughters, Peggy and Fran, their husbands, Norman Feldman and Kenneth Peres, their children, Jonathan Ham
 WEINREB-Marvin S. Age 74, of Oakland, CA, a dedicated dermatologist, loving family man, and humanitarian, died on October 14, while volunteering in Mexico with The Flying Doctors. He is survived by his wife Ilene, former mayor of Hayward, CA, daughters Rachel, Deborah and Judith, all of nor
 WILHELM-Glenn D. With great sorrow, Mobile Wall One, Inc., greatly mourns the passing of our beloved friend and Chief Executive Officer, Glenn D. Wilhelm at the young age of 50. On behalf of all of the employees at Mobile Wall One, we extend our deepest condolences to his family. You will b
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Frankie Crocker, a veteran radio broadcaster and program director who helped catapult WBLS-FM, the black-music format radio station, to the No. 1 spot among listeners ages  18 to 34 in New York City twice in the last three decades, died Saturday of pancreatic cancer. His age was uncertain. 
 BLAINE-Stuart. Died in NYC of cancer on Friday, October 20. Mr. Blaine was born on July 6, 1923. He was was co-founder of the design firm of Blaine and Booth and enjoyed a distinguished career as a designer and actor. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends fortunate to have
 DOWLING-John P., 67. Surrounded by family, died at home on October 22, 2000. He is survived by his much beloved wife of forty years, Eileen Frances (nee Toomey), and his cherished children, Timothy Dowling (wife Elizabeth) of Charlotte, NC, Eileen Dowling and Madeleine Dowling, both of Manh
 EBSTEL-John. Dedicated husband of his late wife Jean. As a member of the Photo League, John's clarity of vision and technical expertise shaped the work of many young photographers. The highlight of his career was his role as the exclusive photographer for Louis Kahn's architectural works. B
 HAYES-Richard C. On October 22, 2000 at age 62. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Neil, Christopher, Todd and his wife Kerry, Anna, Cathy, and Sarah. Grandfather of Matthew, Sarah, and Evie. Dear brother of Christine Walsh. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave.
 HICKOK-Richard S. The Board of Directors of Marsh & McLennan Companies mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague & friend Richard Hickok, who was a valued member of our Board for more than 15 years. We have benefited greatly from Dick's wisdom and counsel and are saddened by his loss. We
 JAY-Joseph. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Leon Jay, upon the loss of his beloved brother. May he and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 JONES-Charles Henry. Died October 20, 2000 after an illness of several months. He was born July 25, 1935 in Atlanta, GA. the youngest of six. Survived by his sister Janet Jones of Atlanta and a nephew, Bradley Keith Jones of Washington, D.C. Predeceased by his parents and brothers Oliver, C
 LEAHY-Richard J. Attorney, 79, a founding partner of the law firm of Leahy, Nyberg, Curto and D'Apice, died on October 21 at Lawrence Hospital, Bronxville, NY. He lived in Yonkers, NY. Dick Leahy was a Vermont native who moved to Yonkers in 1949 with his wife of 52 years, Mildred King Leahy
 MORRIS-Lester J. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Lester J. Morris, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David Mack, President Marshall Hess, Secretary       
 OLSON-Sidney L. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Benefactor and esteemed member of our Board of Overseers, whose commitment to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and compassion for others is both a legacy and an inspiration. With his beloved wife, the late
 PARSONS-Joel. On October 15, 2000. A loving part of so many people's lives. He is survived by his sister Carolyn and brother Frank. Actor, friend, godfather, great-godfather; filled with grace, humor, dignity and love. From Jackson: ''Death is the awakening of a dream. Life is the dream''. 
 SCHREIBER-Alfred. Of NYC, on October 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Evelyn, devoted father to Charles and daughter-in-law Margaret, and Evelyn's children, Linda and Chris, Pamela and David, adored ''Pappa'' to Tyler, Kasper and Lucinda Rose, loving brother to Rosie Pearlstein and Friedl Boris
 SINGER-David. Died peacefully in his home due to complications from Parkinson's Disease on Oct. 23, 2000 at age 85. Beloved husband of Constance. Loving father of Raymond Benn & Susan Siegel. Adoring grandfather of Aaron, Daniel, Jessica & Ana. Dear brother of the late Lou and Al Singer. Fr
 SVIRIDOFF-Mitchell. It is with deepest sorrow that the Local Initiatives Support Corporation mourns the passing of its founder Mitchell Sviridoff. Like thousands of community development corporations from coast to coast, LISC owes much of its growth and success, and in our case our very exi
 SWEETIN-Thomas. The Alumni Association of Townsend Harris High School is saddened by Tom's passing. He was a caring, committed, and brilliant teacher of English and foreign languages. He was the omnipresent moderator of the Crimson and Gold, and in his retirement, he served throughout his p
 TUCKER-Philip. The Board of Directors and Staff of WSFSSH mourn the loss of Phil Tucker, our dear friend, volunteer fiscal consultant for more than 20 years and husband of Leonor, our Personnel Director. We are so grateful for his guidance, support and mentoring of our accounting staff and 
 Robert Harris Chapman, a retired teacher of English and drama at Harvard University and a co-author of the stage version of Herman Melville's ''Billy Budd,'' died on Sept. 27 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. Mr. Chapman joined the Harvard facu
 Robert Lax, an American minimalist poet who was praised for his originality and spirituality, died on Sept. 26 at his family's home in Olean, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Lax moved back to Olean last month after living abroad for more than 30 years, most recently on the Greek island of Patmo
 Charles Perkins, a campaigner for the rights of Aborigines who was sometimes described as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. of Australia, died last Wednesday in Sydney. He was 64. The cause was kidney failure, his family said. The 390,000 Aborigines today are considerably 
 The Rev. Luigi Marinelli, a retired monsignor who ran afoul of the Vatican when he published a best-selling expose on church intrigue, died of liver and bone cancer on Monday, his nephew said. He was 73. Monsignor Marinelli, who worked at the Vatican for 45 years, was summoned to ap
 BREUER-Carl. On October 21 at Meadow Lakes retirement community near Princeton, N.J. Husband of Catherine Breuer. He is also survived by a daughter, Anne Corson of Arlington, VA., a son Dr. Anthony Breuer of Greenville, N.C., five grandchildren, and one great grandchild. A memorial service 
 HANAU-Kenneth John Jr., of Sanibel Island, FL and Madison, CT, died Monday, October 23, 2000 at The Madison House in Madison. Beloved husband of Carol Rossner Hanau for 51 years. He was born February 27, 1927 in Montclair, NJ and was the son of the late Kenneth John and Elizabeth Oliver Han
 HAYES-Richard C. On October 22, 2000 at age 62. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Neil, Christopher, Todd and his wife Kerry, Anna, Cathy, and Sarah. Grandfather of Matthew, Sarah, and Evie. Dear brother of Christine Walsh. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave.
 JANSEN-Richard, PhD. 64. Psychotherapist, school counselor, marathon runner. On Oct. 21 of leukemia. Son of the late Irwin E. and Blanche Burda Janowitz. Stepson of the late Cecelia Baldwin Janowitz. Grandson of Sam and Minnie Frankel Janowitz. Survived by his cousins: Ruth Berson Toory of 
 KING-Charles R. October 22, 2000 at the age of 86. Devoted husband of the late Betty S. King. Father of Michael (wife Claire) of Carlisle, MA, and Jonathan (wife Kathleen) of Englewood, NJ. Grandfather of Adam, Brian, Gabrielle and Benjamin. Also survived by his brother Roger (wife Louise) 
 KLEINBERG-Sue. The partners and staff of Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen, PC, offer their heartfelt condolences to Fred Kleinberg and his family on the passing of his mother, Sue Kleinberg.       
 KUHN-Lenore ''Sunnie.'' October 24th, 2000. Beloved wife of Leo. Loving mother of Bobby and his wife Rona and Jimmy and his wife Marjorie. Cherished Nana of Joseph, Carly, Justin, Jake and Remy. Devoted sister of Phyllis Alpert and the late Buddy Brode, and aunt of Barbara Alpert. Funeral S
 RICH-Martin, 95. Conductor. Died October 23, 2000 peacefully after massive stroke at Roosevelt Hospital. Cherished husband of Maria. Beloved father of Monica Sturm, father-in-law of David and grandfather of Edward and Brendan, brother of Faya Rose and Harriet Appleman. Services private. A M
 SHARPE-Dr. Lawrence. Died from cancer Thursday, October 19, 2000 at the McKeene Pavillion, Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Sharpe was born in London on December 25, 1930. He completed his medical training at University College Hospital, London, 1961. His first academic position in the U
 SINGER-David. Died peacefully in his home due to complications from Parkinson's Disease on Oct. 23, 2000 at age 85. Beloved husband of Constance. Loving father of Raymond Benn & Susan Siegel. Adoring grandfather of Aaron, Daniel, Jessica & Ana. Dear brother of the late Lou and Al Singer. Fr
 SLAIMAN-Don. The Officers, Members and Staff of The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of Don Slaiman, a great friend of working people, a leader in the battle for civil rights in this country and a fighter for justice throughout the world. Don Slaiman believed in t
 SONENCLAR-Joseph. Temple Israel, Lawrence, New York, mourns his loss & extends deepest sympathy to the family. Alan Hartstein, President Allen Kaplan, Rabbi       
 TUCKER-Philip. It is with sadness that we note the passing of Philip Tucker. We express our deepest sympathy to his son Jeffrey and the rest of the family. The Board and Staff of The Henry Street Settlement       
 ULTMANN-John E., 75, died peacefully at home in Chicago, IL on October 23 from complications of lymphoma. Until the time of his death, he was continuing a rewarding 32 year career at the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine. He is survived by his cherished wife of 48 years, Rut
 WEBER-Bernard A. Suddenly on October 23, 2000. Beloved husband of Ronnye Shamam. Devoted father of David and Valerie, Madeline Weber and Bill Shamam. Loving grandfather of Samantha and Jonathan. Dear brother of Carol Kirshenbaum and the late Rose Kleinman. Services Wednesday, October 25, 11
 Perry W. Gilbert, a noted biologist and a leading defender of one of nature's most reviled creatures, the shark, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Dr. Gilbert was working as a comparative anatomy professor at Cornell University in the 1930's, overseeing studen
 The Very Rev. Thomas R. Peterson, a former chancellor and president of Seton Hall University who played a major role in its fund-raising, died on Sunday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 71. Father Peterson was chancellor and president of Seton Hall from 1990 to 1996
 Charles Rembar, who fought and won some of the most important censorship cases in American law, died Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 85. Mr. Rembar defended the publishers of ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' ''Tropic of Cancer'' and ''John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure,'' better
 Donald S. Slaiman, a labor union official who worked to get unions more involved in the civil rights movement and rose high in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Tuesday at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 81 and lived in Washington. The cause was kidney and heart failure said his son G
 Dr. Dirk Jan Struik, a prolific historian of mathematics who taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1926 to 1960, died on Saturday at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 106. Born in the Netherlands, Dr. Struik (pronounced stroyk) traced his interest in the history o
 Martin Rich, a conductor who enjoyed a 26-year association with the Metropolitan Opera and who worked alongside such eminent conductors as Herbert von Karajan, Bruno Walter and William Steinberg in music festivals around the world, died on Monday in New York. He was 95 and just the previous
 COLLINS-George J. A s chool designer and education planner who surveyed, analyzed and designed over 500 schools world wide, died on October 22 in Hollywood, FL. He was 79. He remained active in his profession up to the time of his death. Dr. Collins was born in New Haven, CT, on April 20, 1
 KUHN-Lenore ''Sunnie.'' October 24th, 2000. Beloved wife of Leo. Loving mother of Bobby and his wife Rona and Jimmy and his wife Marjorie. Cherished Nana of Joseph, Carly, Justin, Jake and Remy. Devoted sister of Phyllis Alpert and the late Buddy Brode, and aunt of Barbara Alpert. Funeral S
 KUPCHIK-Abraham Rabbi. The Officers and Members of Temple Beth El of Long Beach mourn the untimely passing of our beloved Rabbi Abraham Kupchik. We extend our sincerest condolences to his dear wife Evelyn, children and grandchildren. Harry Brown, President Sidney Smith, Chair of Board      
 NICHOLAS-Fred J., 5 5, passed away October 24, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Jill Nicholas; daughters, Debra Suied and husband Albert, Sabrina Ewart, Ashley Ewart; and his mother, Dulcie Nicholas. A Memorial Service will be held at 2 P.M., Friday, October 27, 2000 at J.B. Earthman-Tangl
 NYE-Joseph Painter Jr. On October 24, 2000 at his residence in Alexandria, VA. Beloved husband of Cheryl Dunigan Nye of Alexandria, VA. Father of Sarah, Jessica and Molly Nye of Alexandria, VA. and Summer Hinshaw and son-inlaw Todd Hinshaw of Alexandria, VA. Brother of Patricia Allee and br
 OLSON-Dr. Sidney L. We mourn the loss of a true Ba'al Chesed in the world of Jewish and general philanthropy. As a Benefactor of the Medical Center, together with his wife, Miriam, his outstretched hand of kindness made an invaluable contribution to the people of Jerusalem and Israel. His e
 RECCO-Salvatore. Of Lansdale, formerly of New Britain Township, PA, died Tuesday, October 24, 2000 at his home; he was 74 years old. He was the devoted husband of Joan Kotchie Recco. Born in Queens, NY he was the son of the late Salvatore and Mary Picano Recco. Mr. Recco lived in New Britai
 SHAPIRO-Mortimer A. At 84, died peacefully at his home. A life well led. Beloved husband of Mimi. Father of Sylvia and David. Grandfather of Luke, Nathan, Lily and Hazel. Dearest friend, colleague and drinking partner of many. Code-breaker and veteran of the Aleutian Campaign in his youth. 
 SHELLENBERGER James Adamson, recently of Reed's Landing, Springfield, MA, died Monday, October 23rd. Born on December 24, 1913, in Philadelphia, PA, Mr. Shellenberger was an editor of the Ladies Home Journal and The American Home Magazine during the 1950's. He later was a Senior Partner at 
 SLAIMAN-Don. The Officers, Members and Staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of Don Slaiman, a great friend of working people, a leader in the battle for civil rights in this country and a fighter for justice throughout the world. Don Slaiman believed in t
 SVIRIDOFF-Mitchell. Arg us Community mourns the passing of Mitchell Sviridoff, a longtime member of the Argus Board of Directors, a wise counselor and a true friend. Our board and staff extend condolences to his wife Doris, his daughters Karen and Michelle, and his extended family. He will 
 Dr. Ramzi S. Cotran, an internationally recognized pathologist who helped transform a small clinical program in Boston into one of his profession's premier training grounds, died on Monday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Brigham and Women's Hosp
 Harry Cooke Cushing IV, an investor and polo player, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived on the Upper East Side in his final years. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Cushing was the son of Harry Cooke Cushing III
 John Abbott, an art dealer and curator, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure, said Rob Wynne, an artist and friend. Mr. Abbott was born in Allegheny, Pa. In 1966, during his last year at the St.
 Leo Nomellini, the Hall of Fame tackle of the San Francisco 49ers who was renowned for strength and endurance in a National Football League career spanning 14 seasons and 174 consecutive games, died Oct. 17 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications of a stroke, his 
 AVIDON-Allan. October 21, 2000, age 88. Devoted husband of the late Miriam Avidon. Survived by his son & daughter-in-law, Nelson and Rachel of NYC, and his son, Michael, of New London, CT. Allan said this to everyone he met: ''Stay well and enjoy life.''       
 CUSHING - Harry Cooke IV. Passed away on October 24, 2000 suddenly after a short illness at age 76. Vanderbilt scion, accomplished polo player and world traveler, he will be remembered by all who came in contact with him for his strength of character, penetrating wit, voluminous historical 
 ESS-Henry N. October 25, 2000. Born 1921 in Kansas City, MO. He graduated from The Hill School in Pottstown, PA, in 1938, Princeton University in 1942 and Harvard Law School in 1944. He was a Trust and Estates Partner at Sullivan and Cromwell. Memorial service will be held Tuesday, October 
 KLINGER-Isaac. Beloved brother, father, grandfather, and above all, friend, died peacefully October 19, surrounded by his children. A quiet and genuine man who loved to laugh, Isaac always gave generously of himself. He had a rare and special soul, and he will be missed dearly by all who kn
 PRATT-Gary R. Formerly of New Preston Hill, New Milford, CT. Died in Palm Springs, CA on October 18, 2000. Born in Greensburg, PA, on June 20, 1950. Gary Pratt was an officer in Bob Randall Productions, helping his life partner with many creative projects, including the long-running TV seri
 SAVAGE-David. Oct 27, 1989. Remembered with love by his family.       
 Vern Wolfe, a celebrated track coach for a third of a century and an early exponent of weight training in his sport, died on Wednesday in a hospice in Vista, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications from a broken hip, his wife, Marilyn, said. The Wolfes had been married for 53 
 Charles J. Gussman, who brought delightfully tangled plots, addictively picturesque characters and heaping doses of steamy romance to soap operas he wrote for radio and television, died on Oct. 18. He was 87 and lived on a farm in Holland, Pa. Mr. Gussman was a master of a genre tha
 BERRY-Walter. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of beloved artist and friend, Walter Berry. He made his Met debut in 1966 as an unforgettable Barak in the company premiere of Strauss' ''Die Frau ohne Schatten,'' and was subsequently heard at the Met in nine other roles, including thre
 BROOKS-Don, 53. Musician, died October 25 of Acute Myelogenous Leukemia. A world-class harmonica player, he was known for his distinctive tone and lyrical style. Don moved to New York from Dallas in 1968. He worked with such notables as Harry Belafonte, Judy Collins, Waylon Jennings, Willie
 CARROLL - Robert M. The Trustees and Staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with deep sadness the passing of their respected colleague and friend, Bob Carroll, who was Armorer in the Department of Arms and Armor. At the Museum for the past 31 years, he was responsible for the conserv
 EDELMAN-Jerome. Age 87 of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died October 26, 2000. Beloved husband of Lillian. Loving father of Martin (Carmen) Edelman of N.Y.C., and Lynn Edelman of Playa del Rey, Calif. Dear brother of Esther Levine, N.Y.C., and Isidore Edelman, N.Y.C. Cherished
 POST-Seymour C. MD. October 26. Survived by his wife, Judith, children Michael, Deborah Radovsky, Nancy Schecter and Susan Lichtenstein and eight grandchildren. Services private. Receiving family and friends at home on Sunday, October 29, 3-6PM.       
 RESSLER-Ira Richard. Died on October 27, 2000 in New York City at the age of 78. Beloved husband for 50 years of Dorothy, devoted father and father-in-law of Bruce & Ellen Ressler, Jonathan Ressler, Debra and Leon Black, Richard and Alison Ressler, and Antony Ressler and Jami Gertz, loving 
 ROCKMULLER-Sidney M. On October 26, 2000. Much loved husband of the late Rebecca; father of Ellen and Joel, Seth and Katharine, and Clifford and Doris; grandfather of Tahra, Ben, Anna, Emily and David; companion of Hannah Schub; and brother, brother-in-law, and uncle to a close and loving f
 ROSEN-Barry M. Died on Friday, October 27, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, October 29, 2000 at 1:00 PM. For further information please call the Hellman Memorial Chapels at 845356-8600.       
 TRITSCH-Steven. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Steven Tritsch. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary TRITSCH-Steven.
 Don Brooks, a harmonica player who recorded widely as a studio musician in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan, said his widow, Anne. He was 53 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Brooks grew up in Texas and took up the harmonica after he
 BERGA-Ossian Kare. Beloved husband of Heather Cohane, born in Sweden 1919, passed away peacefully in his sleep, October 25th. Stepfather to Candida Burnap of Sun Valley and Palm Beach, Alexander Winder Cohane of London, Candida Cohane Stille of Monte-Carlo, and Ondine Kelpia Cohane, New Yor
 CUSHING - Harry Cooke IV. Passed away on October 24, 2000 suddenly after a short illness at age 76. Vanderbilt scion, accomplished polo player and world traveler, he will be remembered by all who came in contact with him for his strength of character, penetrating wit, voluminous historical 
 GLUCK-Norman E. On October 20, at age 86, in Rio Rancho, New Mexico, after a brief illness fought with courage, dignity and clarity of mind. Loving and devoted husband of the late Rose B. Dear friend, companion and golf partner of Katie Holzer. Devoted and caring brother of Helen, the late 
 LEVITT-David Saul. Loving companion of Herb Klein, died October 22 in Miami, FL. Formerly of N.Y. City, this beloved man touched us all with kindness, support and generosity. He left us all better for having known and loved him. Anne Lawrence, Shirley Ringer       
 LEVY-Robert I., M.D. 63, of Morristown, NJ, on October 28. Beloved husband and best friend of Ellen (Feis). Proud father of Andrew and Nina, Joanne, Karen and Michael Gooen, Patricia and Stuart Zuckerman, devoted son of Sarah and the late George, dear brother of the late Harold. Loving gran
 MODLINGER-Jack. Our extraordinary uncle died on October 26. A beloved husband, father, brother, and brother-in-law. Larger than life, the loss of his presence will always be felt, eased only by our loving memories. We know your journey to heaven will be sure and swift. Jack, Wagons Ho! Cont
 POST-Seymour C. MD. October 26. Survived by his wife, Judith, children Michael, Deborah Radovsky, Nancy Schecter and Susan Lichtenstein and eight grandchildren. Services private. Receiving family and friends at home on Sunday, October 29, 3-6PM.       
 REEVES-Robert A. 78, of New York City. Passed away October 20, while vacationing in Arizona. His charm, wit and philanthropy will be missed by all, especially his cousin, Ines Warner and her children, Lois and Peter of Miami. REEVES-Robert died October 20, 2000. He was a friend to m
 RESSLER-Ira Richard. Died on October 27, 2000 in New York City at the age of 78. Beloved husband for 50 years of Dorothy, devoted father and father-in-law of Bruce & Ellen Ressler, Jonathan Ressler, Debra and Leon Black, Richard and Alison Ressler, and Antony Ressler and Jami Gertz, loving 
 ROCKMULLER-Sidney M. On October 26, 2000. Much loved husband of the late Rebecca; father of Ellen and Joel, Seth and Katharine, and Clifford and Doris; grandfather of Tahra, Ben, Anna, Emily and David; companion of Hannah Schub; and brother, brother-in-law, and uncle to a close and loving f
 SHAPIRO-Mortimer A. At 84, died peacefully at his home. A life well led. Beloved husband of Mimi. Father of Sylvia and David. Grandfather of Luke, Nathan, Lily and Hazel. Dearest friend, colleague and drinking partner of many. Code-breaker and veteran of the Aleutian Campaign in his youth. 
 SHARPE-Dr. Lawrence. Died from cancer Thursday, October 19, 2000 at the McKeene Pavillion, Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Sharpe was born in London on December 25, 1930. He completed his medical training at University College Hospital, London, 1961. His first academic position in the U
 SIMMS-Craig. The management and employees of CoreMarkets mourns the passing of Craig Simms, a dear friend and colleague. He will be remembered as a motivated, hard working associate whose presence contributed to the overall success of our company. His willingness to contribute and commitmen
 SOBIN-Morris. Passed away on Friday, October 27, 2000. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY. Loving husband of Doris and the late Ruth. Devoted & cherished father of Louise Sobin Hersh (Bob). Adored grandfather of Philip (Lara) and Joshua Sivin. Beloved brother of Rose Simon 
 TRITSCH-Steven. The Board of Governors and Members of Elberon Bathing Club mourn the untimely death of our longtime friend and member, Steven Tritsch. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary       
 ZAWISA-Bernard J. Artist and Professor Emeritus, Department of Art, Southern Connecticut State University, on October 3, 2000, in Los Angeles County, California, of complications from a brain tumor. He was born in Middletown, Connecticut on May 12, 1925. After serving in the US Air Corps in
 BLOCK-Charles. 10/29/'08 to 9/3/'96. He dared to dream, then made his dreams come true. His loving memory lives on in our dreams and our lives. His Family.       
 DiMONA-Joe. We commemorate the life of a great man, Joe DiMona. Joe was an exuberant New Yorker with a luminous wit. He was a writer of towering vision, prescience and existential cool. Chris O'Neil Martin Nirschel       
 William T. Hurtz, a founder of the trendsetting United Productions of America animation studio, whose career stretched from Walt Disney in the 1930's to ''Rugrats'' in the 1990's, with stops in between for Mr. Magoo, George of the Jungle and Cap'n Crunch, died Oct. 14 at his home in Van Nuy
 Don Brooks, a harmonica player who recorded widely as a studio musician in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan, said his widow, Anne. He was 53 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Brooks grew up in Texas and took up the harmonica after he
 Dr. John E. Ultmann, a cancer expert who advanced doctors' understanding of how treatment should vary with the stage of the disease, died Oct. 23 at his home in Hyde Park, Ill. He was 75. The cause was complications from lymphoma, one of his specialties, according to the University 
 ADAMS-David S. Passed away peacefully October 21, aged 90, in Washington, DC. Born in Edinburgh, Scotland, he joined Boosey & Hawkes Ltd., music publishers, in the 1930's, eventually heading the Toronto office, the New York office, and becoming Managing Director of the London head office in
 BARSEL-Adam. We mourn the death of Adam and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President BARSEL-Adam. We lost a good friend in an unfortunate way. We will always remember him. Love, Lindsey and Ashley Cohen  
 CONKLIN-Aubrey Robert. A longtime Scarsdale, East Hampton and Vero Beach, FL, resident, died of a sudden heart attack early Saturday, October 28, while in New York City. He was 60 years old. Mr Conklin was born June 13, 1940, and raised in Goshen, NY. He was the son of Frances and Aubrey V.
 CUSHING - Harry Cooke IV. Passed away on October 24, 2000 suddenly after a short illness at age 76. Vanderbilt scion, accomplished polo player and world traveler, he will be remembered by all who came in contact with him for his strength of character, penetrating wit, voluminous historical 
 DIAMOND-Meyer (Mike). Of Howard Beach, NY, on October 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Esther, father of Maxene Spindell and Jeffrey Diamond, father-in-law of Michael Spindell, grandfather of Alyson, Leah and David, brother of Leo Diamond. He was much loved and will be sorely missed. Funeral at
 FRIEDMAN-David. Formerly of Mt. Vernon, NY, died after a long illness in Pembroke Pines, FL, on October 24, 2000, a few weeks short of his 70th birthday. He is survived by his loving wife Connie, brother Jay and his wife Maxine. Brother-in-law to Joe and Fran. Uncle to Beth, Stefanie, Mark,
 GERSTEN-Gerald Barry. 82, died October 26, in Lake Worth, FL. Mr. Gersten, an Army lieutenant in World War II, later founded Liberty Industries, a manufacturing company in Brooklyn, NY. He married Rita Achiron and they moved to Great Neck, LI, where they raised their children, Ben, Louise a
 GROSSMAN-Adolph. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its beloved member, Paulette Papilsky. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 HAAR-Murray Sidney. Age 83, of Jersey City, NJ, died October 28. Beloved husband of Shirley J. Haar. Devoted father of Lynn and Michael Reichgott, Matthew and Betsie Haar, Diane Haar and Jack Lyons. Doting grandfather of nine. Brother of Frances Yeston. He was Vice President of Temple Beth-
 KUBY-Milton. Chief of Human Factors, Life Sciences and Space Environment, retired, at Fairchild Hiller Corporation, he was a pioneer in the field of aeronautical human safety engineering. His varied career accomplishments include designing a bauxite processing factory in Jamaica, West Indie
 MORFOGEN-James. Age 53, of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of NYC, passed away at his sister's home in Glen Rock, NJ, on Saturday, October 28, 2000. Beloved and cherished son of Christine (nee Christakos) and the late James G. Morfogen. Cherished brother of Elaine and George Morfogen. Loving uncle o
 MULLIN-David C. Founder, Chairman and CEO of Mullin & Associates/Lincolnshire International, an established premium global consulting company, died October 28, 2000 at the age of 70. David was a respected leader, as well as pioneer in establishing the Outplacement Industry as a valued resou
 REEVES-Robert died October 20, 2000. He was a friend to many and a man of integrity, compassion, decent instinct, and keen perception. He was an avowed loner, but enjoyed the luxury of solitude. Politically, he was an independent; socially, a civil libertarian but for law and order, hopeful
 SOBIN-Morris. Passed away on Friday, October 27, 2000. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY. Loving husband of Doris and the late Ruth. Devoted & cherished father of Louise Sobin Hersh (Bob). Adored grandfather of Philip (Lara) and Joshua Sivin. Beloved brother of Rose Simon 
 TYE-David Lincoln. Of Westport, CT, age 72, on October 28. Husband of Jean F. Tye (nee O'Niell), father of Gerald Tye, stepfather of Wendy Carr Froggatt, grandfather of Alecia and Joel Tye and Alexander Froggatt, brother of A. Raymond Tye and the late Dr. Mauray Tye. Services at Stanetsky M
 BERGER-Paul ''Sonny''. Died peacefully at home on October 29. World War II Navy veteran. He will be lovingly remembered by his children and their spouses, his grandchildren, brothers and sister, sister-in-law, aunt, former wife, nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. His family will receive 
 CARLIN-Nathan. On October 29. Beloved husband of the late Kitty. Devoted father of Fred Carlin and Abby and Howard Rosenblum. Cherished grandfather of Marni and Julia. Brother of Frank. He was a proud graduate of St. John's University (BBA 1935), a CPA and a World War II Army veteran. Servi
 COULOUCOUNDIS-Emmanuel J. On October 30th, 2000 at age 74. Beloved husband of the late Cleopatra. Loving father of John and Sonya. Cherished grandfather of Emmanuel and Michael. Dear brother of Elias and Mary, Maria and Ulysses, Basil and Claudia, Nicholas and Maria. Devoted son-inlaw of El
 ELDER-Robert J. Passed away peacefully on October 29, 2000 at the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook, N.Y. Husband of the late Billee D. Elder, father of Mark J. Elder, father-inlaw of Stephanie C. Brand, brother of Elizabeth Nickell of Muskegon, Mich and the late Irvin Elder of
 GREENLEAF-Crawford Alden. Of Palm Beach, FL, died Saturday, October 28, 2000 after a sudden illness. Mr. Greenleaf was preceded in death by his wife, Ruth Mabee Greenleaf on March 16, 1990. He is survived by his daughter, Linda L. Mitchell; his son, Charles R. Lachman, Jr.; and three grandc
 GRODE-Murray. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its long time member and extends its condolences to his entire bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard Wolf, President       
 GROSSMAN-Adolph. Loving and devoted husband of Anne for 58 years; beloved father of Paulette and Samuel Papilsky, Steve and Adrienne Grossman; cherished grandfather of Gary, Elissa, Nicole, Michael, Kenny, and Lauren; dear brother-in-law of Pauline Frisch. Shiva will be observed at the Papi
 HERZECA-Lincoln J, Sr., ''Link'', passed away peacefully in the early morning of October 28, 2000 at the age of 85. Link, a professional engineer, was a proud graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and served during World War II as a Captain in the Army Corps of Engineers in 
 JACKEL-Harry. Of Glen Rock, NJ. On October 30, 2000. Husband of the late Shirley. Father of Joan S. Polk. Grandfather of Sylvia Woodman and Alexander Polk. He was a retired postal worker for the Grand Central Post Office in New York. He retired from Forbes Magazine as a mailroom employee. H
 KINNEY-Francis. Died on October 25th at Greenville, New York. Formerly of Millbrook and Bayside, New York. He was in his 96th year. Mr. Kinney was retired Vice President of Ordinary Underwriting Division of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. for 47 years. Allen Funeral Home, Millbrook, N.Y.   
 KUPCHIK-Rabbi Abraham. The Histadruth Ivrith of America mourns the death of its past Executive Vice President, Rabbi Abraham Kupchik. His lifelong commitment to the advancement of Hebrew language and culture, and the strengthening of Jewish education as the lifeblood of a vibrant American J
 LEVY-Robert I., M.D. The boards, faculty and staff of Columbia University Health Sciences, The New York-Presbyterian Hospital, and The Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourn the loss of our colleague, Dr. Robert I. Levy. Dr. Levy served as Vice President for H
 O'SULLIVAN-Rev. John J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired pastor of St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Brooklyn, on October 29. Reposing at Frederick J. Chapey & Son Funeral Home, 1225 Montauk Highway, West Islip, NY, Tuesday, October 31, from 2-4:30 and 7-9:30 PM. Mass of 
 PEABODY-Joseph Haven. Died peacefully and unexpectedly at his home in Naples, Florida on Saturday October 28, 2000. Born March 31, 1921, son of the late George and Ruth Peabody of fairfield, Conn. Survived by his wife Lois, daughters Cornelia (Anthony Sroka) and Melissa, beloved grandfather
 SHENSON-Walter. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Walter Shenson, and send condolences to his family.       
 SOBIN-Morris. Passed away on Friday, October 27, 2000. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY. Loving husband of Doris and the late Ruth. Devoted and cherished father of Louise Sobin Hersh (Bob). Adored grandfather of Philip (Lara) and Joshua Sivin. Beloved brother of Rose Simo
 KORN-Jack. 6/18/10-10/31/94 Forever remembered and loved by his family       
 Dr. Robert I. Levy, a former director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute whose research helped link cholesterol levels with heart disease, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Morristown, N.J.        
 Thomas King, whose early research in frog embryos foreshadowed the cloning of sheep and other mammals decades later, died last Wednesday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 79 and lived in Alexandria, Va. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. King retired in 
 Walter Berry, an Austrian bass-baritone who was renowned for his lithe, richly toned interpretations of the German operatic and song repertory, died on Friday at his home in Vienna. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, the Associated Press reported. Mr. Berry was born in
