 Clark Battle Fitz-Gerald, a sculptor who produced public commissions for several American cities, churches and universities, died on Oct. 18 in Castine, Me. He was 87. His death was announced by his wife, Liddy. Mr. Fitz-Gerald, born in St. Louis, graduated from the Philadel
 Dr. William Dobelle, who developed an experimental system of artificial vision for the blind that involved the transmission of electrical signals to electrodes implanted in the brain, died on Oct. 5 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62
 Herbert Katzman, an Expressionist painter known for his densely textured figurative canvases, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, his former wife Laurel Carroll said. In the 1950's Mr. Katzman was featured
 AXLER--Joseph. On October 30, 2004, age 92. Beloved husband of Harriett. Loving father of Sheila and Stephen Gwertzman and Mitchel Axler. Devoted grandfather of Alan and Valerie Gwertzman, Noah and Nicole Axler, Adam and Lori Axler, and Max Axler. Cherished great-grandfather of Tristan and 
 BERGER--Alexander. Husband of the leate Eleanor Berger. Father of Elaine, Ann and the late Alec. Grandfather of Jennifer, Alec and the late Kevin. Brother of Blanche Pindus. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, 30 Cooper Square,
 BURNETT--Frank J. Jr. On October 29, 2004. 78 years. Beloved husband of Lorraine. Loving father of Mattheu. Adored grandfather of Molly and Hannah. Dear brother of Robert. Funeral Mass will be held on Wednesday, November 3, 10 a.m. at Epiphany Church, 22nd Street and 2nd Avenue, followed by
 COHEN--Dr. Bertram D. Longtime resident of Warren, NJ, died Thursday, October 28, 2004. Born January 16, 1923, in Brooklyn, NY. BA, Brooklyn College, '44, and Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, University of Iowa '49. Emeritus Professor, Department of Psychiatry, UMDNJ and Rutgers University facul
 EULA--Joe. My father gave orchids to everyone on a show when he thought it was special. Walter Winchell picked up on it and said on the radio and in print, ''Orchids to--.'' I'm changing it to weeds (his flora of preference) to Joe, a magical, gutsy scamp of a fellow, as wild as the flowers
 FEINBERG -- Lawrence of London, England. Formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Amy, devoted father of Nicky, Chloe and Geoffrey, dear brother of Darleene Warren, and Beverly Feinberg Moss. Services on Tuesday 10 A.M. ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. FEINB
 FISCHMAN--Iver. 77 years old, of Brooklyn, NY. Passed away on October 29, 2004, after a brief illness. Beloved brother of Marjorie Shushan. He will be deeply missed by his lifelong companion Julio Lopez. A former educator and writer, he was a man of great compassion and dignity, and will be
 FRIEDMAN--Cornelius W. On October 30, 2004. Beloved wife of Lillian Behren. Devoted father of Anne and Richard. Cherished grandfather and great-grandfather. Services Wednesday, 10 am, at King Solomon Cemetery, Clifton, NJ. FRIEDMAN -- Cornelius W. Congregation Emanu-El of the City o
 HEINE--Leonard M. Jr. The following e-mail was twice sent to Leonard on June 6, 2004, the 60th anniversary of the Normandy invasion. He repeatedly refused to acknowledge receipt and in so doing, only affirmed Tom Brokaw's insight into that generation. ''Leonard: Nancy and I are, at this mom
 MEHLMAN--Benjamin Wm. Husband of the late Evelyn R. Mehlman. Father of Lisa Robinson, Deane Zimmerman, Irna Gadd. Father-in-law of Richard Robinson, Howard Zimmerman, Helen Fosbery. Grandfather of Alex and Elizabeth Gadd, Emily Gadd. Great-grandfather of Isabel, Alison and Katharine. A foun
 SHECHTMAN--Michael, M.D. 85, on October 29. Beloved companion of Rhoda Hardy. Husband of the late Gloria Shechtman. Father of Roberta and David Needham and William Shechtman, DDS. Grandfather of Cindy and Tracy Needham. Brother of Joseph Shechtman, M.D. May his soul rest in peace. Services 
 VOGEL--Howard S. On October 30, 2004, at age 70. Beloved husband of Judy. Father of Michael and his wife Katie. Grandfather of Eddy and Charlie. Brother of Laurence and his wife Anna Liese. Uncle of Peter and his wife Raphaella and daughter Emma, and of Carsten. Services at Frank E. Campbel
 Ezra Stoller, a celebrated architectural photographer whose work introduced the viewing public to the high modernism of the postwar era, died on Friday at his home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 89. The cause was complications of a recent stroke, his daughter, Erica, said. Tr
 AXLER--Joseph. On October 30, 2004, age 92. Beloved husband of Harriett. Loving father of Sheila and Stephen Gwertzman and Mitchel Axler. Devoted grandfather of Alan and Valerie Gwertzman, Noah and Nicole Axler, Adam and Lori Axler, and Max Axler. Cherished great-grandfather of Tristan and 
 BERKOWITZ--Sidney J., 73, of Dix Hills, New York, passed away October 31, 2004. Loving husband of Marian Kaskel. Adored father of Steven, Michael, Stacy, and their spouses. Cherished grandfather of eight. He lived his life his way. A good man, he will be missed by many.       
 BURFORD--Barry Frederick. Age 28 of Wellington, FL passed away on October 30th. A graduate of U.C.F., in 2000, and resided most recently in Astoria, New York. He is survived by his parents Jerry and Colleen; brother Clayton, all of Wellington, FL, his sister Sheila of New York and the love 
 CALLAWAY--Trowbridge, III, former Chairman and CEO of U.S. Trust Company of Florida, died suddenly at the age of 66 on October 30, 2004. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Phyllis Anderson Callaway; his son, William Trowbridge Callaway of Yardley, PA; two daughters, Susan Callaway Stei
 CONE--Edward T. American Jewish World Service mourns the loss a long time friend and supporter who has helped pursue global justice and healing in the developing world. We convey our deepest condolences to all who mourn him.       
 DUNCAN--John C. on October 29, 2004 at age 84. Beloved husband of the late Barbara Doyle Duncan. Father of Lynn Duncan, Craig Duncan, Gale Simmons and the late Wendy VanWinkle. Grandfather of Ed VanWinkle, Deirdra Singleton, Jennifer Grayson, Sarah Ashley Simmons, Julianna Simmons and the l
 FISCHMAN--Iver. 77 years old, of Brooklyn, NY. Passed away on October 29, 2004, after a brief illness. Beloved brother of Marjorie Shushan. He will be deeply missed by his lifelong companion Julio Lopez. A former educator and writer, he was a man of great compassion and dignity, and will be
 GATOF--Arnold. After a long illness on November 1, 2004. Left to grieve-his beloved wife Ann, his adored children Peter and Bonnie, Bob and Kim, Robyn and Gael; his beloved grandchildren Alex, Jessica, Jake, Tess, Sophia and Alexa; his brother Paul and wife Marilyn, nephews Mathew (Mary) an
 HEINE--Leonard M., Jr. The Anti Defamation League mourns the passing of Leonard M. Heine, longtime ADL friend and supporter and beloved husband of Sandy. We extend our sincerest condolences to Sandy and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Directo
 IAMS--Paul. October 26, 2004. Age 89. A loving husband, father and grandfather. Founder of the Iams Pet Food Company. We regret his passing, but rejoice in the rich life he lived. Paul, Barb and Carrie       
 KANZA--Thomas. The Kanza family are very sorry to announce the sudden and unexpected death of Professor Thomas Kanza, who passed away peacefully in his sleep at his home in Oxford, England, on Monday 25th October 2004 aged 71 years.       
 MEHLMAN--Benjamin Wm. Husband of the late Evelyn R. Mehlman. Father of Lisa Robinson, Deane Zimmerman, Irna Gadd. Father-in-law of Richard Robinson, Howard Zimmerman, Helen Fosbery. Grandfather of Alex and Elizabeth Gadd, Emily Gadd. Great-grandfather of Isabel, Alison and Katharine. A foun
 STEIN--Ralph, MD. A gentle soul. He was a generous, devoted step - father, step grandfather and friend whose sudden departure will leave a void. We will miss him. Rachel, Sam, Jonathan and Nathaniel Selub Minna Cagan Selub, MD Steven Selub, MD Fred and Leo Horton Nancy Cagan Horton, and Mar
 VOGEL--Howard. All of the Shareholders and the Staff of 169 East 69 Street mourn the loss of our devoted and longtime President, Howard Vogel. His guidance and wisdom have made our building a wonderful place to live. The Board of Directors of 169 East 69th Street       
 YOUNG--Robert. It is with profound sorrow that the employees of Day & Meyer, Murray & Young Corp mourn the loss of their longtime Chairman and friend for over fifty years. His 81 years were an amazing journey and his wit, humor and leadership will be missed by all he met along the way.     
 Lord Hanson, a British tycoon once labeled Lord Moneybags for the fabled riches he acquired from a series of aggressive takeovers, died on Monday at his home in Newbury, England, according to business associates. He was 82. Lord Hanson built his business reputation as the creator of
 ARNON--Michael. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the first Israeli to serve as the organization's President. From 1973 to 1978, his dedicated leadership played a major role in developing new campaigns in the banking and corporate comm
 DUNCAN--John C. on October 29, 2004 at age 84. Beloved husband of the late Barbara Doyle Duncan. Father of Lynn Duncan, Craig Duncan, Gale Simmons and the late Wendy VanWinkle. Grandfather of Ed VanWinkle, Deirdra Singleton, Jennifer Grayson, Sarah Ashley Simmons, Julianna Simmons and the l
 FLEISCHMAN--Harry, 90, socialist, labor and civil rights activist, biographer of Norman Thomas, and husband to the late Natalie Fleischman, died November 1, 2004, at the home of his son and daughter-in-law, Peter Fleischman and Louise Klebanoff of New York, NY, after a long illness. In addi
 GARDELLA--Mark D. Of Whitestone, NY, 41 years old, on November 1, 2004. Beloved husband of Mary. Cherished son of Gloria and the late Aldo. Loving son-in-law of Mary and James McGrath. Dear brother-in-law of Christopher, James, Patrick, and Margaret McGrath and fond uncle. He was loved by m
 GRODBERG--Charles, E., 79, of Bayonne, NJ died Tuesday, November 2, 2004, following a brief illness. Survived by his former wife, Adrienne Grodberg, his children, Bruce and Sandi Kafenbaum, Jodi Dey, and Alan and Laurie Gott, and his seven grandchildren; and sister, Betty Hollander. Gravesi
 HENDLER--Hyman B., M.D. 95, passed peacefully on November 1. Hy Hendler lived by these words excerpted from his favorite poem: ''When you get what you want in your struggle for self And the world makes you king for a day, Just go to a mirror and look at yourself And see what that man has to
 KIRSHNER--Herbert J. Died peacefully on November 2, 2004 at the age of 86 at his home with his family by his side. Married for 61 years to his late beloved wife, Natalie (Bailey). Devoted and loving father of Patricia Lowy, Kathy Matson, Peter Kirshner and Jon (Cathy) Kirshner. Adored grand
 MARDFIN--Robert Kade. 89, in Hilton Head, SC, on October 28. Widower of Doris ''Rusty'' Ward Mardfin after 61 years. Raised in Yonkers; graduate of Horace Mann School in 1932, Princeton University in 1936, and Harvard Law School in 1939. Worked in benefit plans for Exxon Corporation for 33 
 MEHLMAN--Hon. Benjamin Wm. Service time and place has been changed to today, 1:30pm, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave. MEHLMAN--Benjamin William. The Fire Island Synagogue mourns the passing of Judge Bill Mehlman, and extends deepest condolences to hi
 RONNER--Irving H. On November 1, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Gladys, devoted father of Madeleine Kaufman (Dr. Stephen Kaufman) and Dr. Hilary Ronner (Ronald Feiman), and revered ''Poppa'' of Justin, Craig, Kimberly, and Jed. Graveside service. Donations in his honor may be made to the
 SPURCK--Robert M. Beloved son of Dr. Robert P. Spurck and the late Catherine Spurck, passed away suddenly on October 29, 2004 at his home in NYC. He was 50 years old. He is survived by his father, Dr. Robert Spurck and his stepmother, Janet Spurck of Greenwood Village, CO; brothers, Greg an
 STEIN--Dr. Ralph. November 1, 2004, suddenly taken from us at age 77. Beloved husband of Lore. Devoted father of Janet and Jonathan Schultz, Vivian and Michael Dubin, and Lydia and Stuart Bernstein. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, David, Daniel, Marc, Lauren, Kari, Andrew, Mathew, and Simo
 Paul F. Iams, a self-taught animal nutritionist whose pet foods bearing his name are sold in 70 countries, died Oct. 26 in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Sun City West, Ariz. The cause was complications of a broken hip, said his daughter Barbara Iams Korein. Mr. Iams started
 Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, a Bedouin tribesman who became president of the federation known as the United Arab Emirates and one of the Arab world's leading statesmen, died yesterday. He was believed to be 86. He had been suffering from diabetes and kidney problems. His death
 Don Kennedy, whose 22-year reign as basketball coach turned St. Peter's College in Jersey City into a national contender, died Oct. 26 at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 97. Kennedy lived with his son George in Garnerville, N.Y. His son Paul said his father had collapsed at hom
 BODNER--David E. Age 70, on November 2, 2004. Father of Lee L. and Karen Lang Bodner, former wife Sheila Lang, his brother Seth and granddaughter Katherine. Mr. Bodner graduated from Wesleyan University and received a graduate degree from New York University, with additional graduate educat
 GARDELLA--Mark D. Of Whitestone, NY, 41 years old, on November 1, 2004. Beloved husband of Mary. Cherished son of Gloria and the late Aldo. Loving son-in-law of Mary and James McGrath. Dear brother-in-law of Christopher, James, Patrick, and Margaret McGrath and fond uncle. He was loved by m
 HUBBELL--John W. Jr., of Millbrook, NY. Passed away November 2, 2004, after a year-long bout with cancer. Beloved husband of Gwynn. Devoted father of Christopher and Eliot. In addition to his wife and children, he is survived by his sisters, Jean Asher of Rowayton, CT, Susan Jackel of Wakef
 KIRSHNER--Herbert J. Died peacefully on November 2, 2004 at the age of 86 at his home with his family by his side. Married for 61 years to his late beloved wife, Natalie (Bailey). Devoted and loving father of Patricia Lowy, Kathy Matson, Peter Kirshner and Jon (Cathy) Kirshner. Adored grand
 LEIPZIGER--Arthur F. Age 82. On November 2, 2004, still hoping for a regime change. Much loved by many, especially his wife of 58 years, Evelyn; daughters, Karen and Deidre; grandkids, Izzy and Kiran; brothers, Herb and Eddie; in-laws, nieces and nephews. Memorial service Monday, November 8
 MEHLMAN--Benjamin Wm. We are deeply saddened by the passing of a dear friend. Bill has been a Director since 1964. He was always there with sage counsel, but most of all he was a good person. He will always be remembered fondly. Board of Directors, United-Guardian, Inc. MEHLMAN--Ben
 MURPHY -- Charles Jeffer son, Sr. Retired Vice President with Lebenthal & Co., dead at 81. Charles J. Murphy, a resident of Pelham Manor, N.Y. for over 50 years, died of heart failure on November 3, 2004 at Sound Shore Hospital, New Rochelle, N.Y. Born in Baltimore, MD in 1923 to Louis and 
 RONNER--Irving H. On November 1, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Gladys, devoted father of Madeleine Kaufman (Dr. Stephen Kaufman) and Dr. Hilary Ronner (Ronald Feiman), and revered ''Poppa'' of Justin, Craig, Kimberly, and Jed. Graveside service. Donations in his honor may be made to the
 STEIN--Dr. Ralph. We mourn the loss of Dr. Ralph Stein, a Past President of Congregation Habonim. We will miss his wisdom, optimism and kind heart. On behalf of the entire community we extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Lore, daughters Lydia, Vivian and Janet and their families, exten
 James H. Binger, the ultrawealthy and aristocratic chairman of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses, died on Wednesday night at his home in Minneapolis. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn. A Minnesota native with a 
 Joe Bushkin, a swing-era pianist with a spirited, ebullient style whose career wound through big bands, cabaret, Hollywood and Broadway, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia said his son-in-law Robert Merrill. Mr. Bushkin 
 ALKSNE--Harold, Ph.D. Died October 29, 2004. Professor Emeritus of Sociology at C.W. Post College and leader in the understanding of substance abuse. Survived by his daughter, Lefa. NYC Memorial to be determined.       
 FARRELL--Michael, on November 3, 2004. Native of Crossmolina, County Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Collins). Loving and devoted father of Marguerite, Patrick and Ursula. Loving brother of Frank, Mary, John, Bridie, Tony, Tommy, Eddie, Katie, Patrick, Leo, Martin, Julie & Jerry,
 GLASER--Philip L., of Warwick, New York. Passed away at home on November 4, 2004 after a valiant twoyear battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of Jonathan and father-in-law of Stacey and loving grandfather of Andrew, all of White Plains, N.Y. He is survived by his si
 GOLDEN--Mortimer. Passed away November 4, 2004. He was the devoted husband of the late Rebecca Golden. Loving father of Suzanne and Barbara, and beloved grandfather of Russell. Services are scheduled for Sunday, 12PM, at George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Lecount Place, New Rochelle, NY. Inte
 GRIFFIN -- Kenneth G., a prominent business attorney and commercial litigator in Los Angeles for more than 35 years who developed a reputation as an expert on Japan, has died. He was 64. Griffin worked primarily for international clients, mostly in Japan. He spent years achieving fluency in
 HUBBELL--John W. Jr., of Millbrook, NY. Passed away November 2, 2004, after a year-long bout with cancer. Beloved husband of Gwynn. Devoted father of Christopher and Eliot. In addition to his wife and children, he is survived by his sisters, Jean Asher of Rowayton, CT, Susan Jackel of Wakef
 KLAUBER--George, 81. Sailed away on September 14, 2004. Distinguished graphic designer and lover of life, art, and design. Beloved by his family, fellow faculty, legions of friends and students around the world. We are in deep sorrow of the final journey of this exuberant traveller. He will
 LEHMULLER--Paul C., M.D. Age 73. Dr. Lehmuller treated the orthopaedic needs of the Levittown, N.Y. area for 40 years. He served as President of the Nassau County Medical Society for the 1983-84 term. He died unexpectedly at his residence in Key Largo, FL. on Friday, October 29, 2004. His s
 LEVINE--Morris, 91, passed quietly away on November 3, 2004. He is preceded in death by his son Richard and wife Selma. ''Great Uncle Morris'' is survived by his children Steven (Patty) Levine, Debra Tobin, grandchildren Brenda and Scott Tobin, his sister Charlotte Gottesman, many generatio
 WECHSLER--Ellen Stein. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Ellen Stein Wechsler, beloved sister of our dear friend and colleague, Sidney Stein, MD, longtime member of our medical staff and past president of Beth Israel's Medical Board and Do
 Theodore Taylor, a theoretical physicist who spent his early career as a designer of streamlined nuclear weapons and his later career as an antinuclear campaigner, died on Oct. 28 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 79 and until recently lived in the western New York community of
 Elliot Bredhoff, a leading Washington labor lawyer who helped define the role of federal courts in labor arbitration, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 83. The cause was pulmonary complications related to a heart valve replacement, his law firm, Bredhoff & Kaise
 John R. LaMontagne, deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who helped organize efforts to develop vaccines for many diseases, died on Tuesday in Mexico City. He was 61. Greg Folkers, a spokesman for the institute, which is part of the National I
 BASSIN--Alexander, Ph.D. An impasse had been reached by the early sixties. Long lines of this Town's young, addicted and lost, were filing into already crowded jail cells. With no end in sight, a lone Research Chief of the Brooklyn Supreme Court sounded the call for a new way-a revolutionar
 BINGER--James Henry. Born in St. Paul, MN May 16, 1916. Died peacefully at home in Minneapolis on November 3, 2004 at age 88. Graduate of Yale University, the University of Minnesota Law School and former CEO of Honeywell. He was a past member on several executive boards including 3M, North
 FARRELL--Michael, on November 3, 2004. Native of Crossmolina, County Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Collins). Loving and devoted father of Marguerite, Patrick and Ursula. Loving brother of Frank, Mary, John, Bridie, Tony, Tommy, Eddie, Katie, Patrick, Leo, Martin, Julie & Jerry,
 ODENCE--Charles Lawrence, on Thursday, November 4, 2004, in Clearwater, Florida. Proudly born and raised in Boston, MA, he divided his time between his families in Clearwater, FL and Weston, MA. Beloved husband of the late Helen Lerman Odence and the late Lois Becker Odence. Loving father o
 PERDREAUX--Rene J., on November 4, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Marie (nee Hogan). Loving father of Rene and Helen, Kevin and Monica, and Stephen and Hinda. Cherished grandfather of Megan, Keara, Caroline and Tifanie. Funeral Monday, 9:30am from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quent
 David Shulman, a self-described Sherlock Holmes of Americanisms who dug through obscure, often crumbling publications to hunt down the first use of thousands of words, died on Oct. 30 at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 91 and lived in Brooklyn. His friend David Kahn an
 Harry Fleischman, a former officer of the American Socialist Party and a biographer of Norman Thomas, the six-time Socialist candidate for president, died Monday at his son's home in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in West Caldwell, N.J. The cause was cancer, his son, Peter, said.   
 BARSHOP--Nathan. 89, on November 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Ruth for 56 years. Loving father of Ronald (Leslie) Barshop and Jill (Neil) Molberger. Adored grandfather of Allison and Ron; Ryan, Matthew, Benjamin, Megan and Jaimee. Cherished brother of Nora Roth and Charlotte Manketo. He was 
 BENJAMIN--Leo. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Pawling, NY, and Fort Lee, NJ, on November 3, 2004. Leo was born February 27, 1916, to Nathan and Lena. After Lena's premature death in 1918, he was raised and loved by his stepmother, Esther (Seinfeld). Cherished husband of Ethele (Selkowe). Predece
 BERMINGHAM--Eldredge L. Of South Londonderry, VT. died peacefully at home on November 4, 2004. ''Woolly'' is survived by Pamela Macrae Bermingham, their six children and 13 grandchildren. Woolly was born March 21, 1925 in Rye, N.Y. and attended Rye Country Day School, Taft School and Bowdoi
 BINGER--James Henry. Born in St. Paul, MN May 16, 1916. Died peacefully at home in Minneapolis on November 3, 2004 at age 88. Graduate of Yale University, the University of Minnesota Law School and former CEO of Honeywell. He was a past member on several executive boards including 3M, North
 EISENBUCH--Joseph. Beloved uncle and brother. Died November 4, 2004, at age 90, surrounded by loving family. He was everyone's favorite, bright, charming, with a devilish wit. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 FARRELL--Michael, on November 3, 2004. Native of Crossmolina, County Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Collins). Loving and devoted father of Marguerite, Patrick and Ursula. Loving brother of Frank, Mary, John, Bridie, Tony, Tommy, Eddie, Katie, Patrick, Leo, Martin, Julie & Jerry,
 HIRSCH--David I., 78. Beloved husband of Ann, loving father, stepfather and father-inlaw of Peter, Amanda, Beth, Jean, Heidi, Michael, Fred and Ron. Doting grandfather of Emilie, Joshua, Ben, Nora and Claire. His humor will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, donations to East End Hospic
 LEVY--Albert L., Esq. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Albie, a gentleman, scholar and patriot. We will miss his wit, wisdom and humor. We grieve with his devoted wife Barbara. Maxine, Sam and Family       
 MILLER--Seymour A., M.D. Age 91, of Scarsdale, NY. Passed away at home on November 6, 2004, after a valiant struggle with Alzheimer's. Dr. Miller first trained as an anesthesiologist and served in the Second World War. He worked for many years at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City. After a
 SCHAIRER--George Swift, 91, retired Boeing Vice President of Research, from complications of Alzheimers disease, October 28, 2004, in Kirkland, Washington. Born May 19, 1913 to Otto S. and Elizabeth Schairer, a graduate of Swarthmore College and MIT, he received a Doctorate of Engineering (
 WATTLES--Gurdon Weller. 102, died on November 5, 2004, at his residence in Far Hills, NJ. Beloved husband of Elizabeth ''Betty'' Bayne and subsequently to Anita ''Peter'' Bradshaw, both of whom he survived. His son James Howard Wattles died in 1947. His son, Gurdon Bayne Wattles and his wif
 Benjamin Wm. Mehlman, the famously stern upholder of the famously fussy bylaws of Ocean Beach, the Fire Island community nicknamed ''The Land of No,'' died on Oct. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. His death was announced by his family. In Ocean Beach, the accused appe
 Charles F. Kennedy, an Iowan who gravitated to New York, where he became a familiar presence in Central Park as an amateur naturalist, died on Oct. 20 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said his brother, La
 Howard Keel, the barrel-chested star of lavish Hollywood musicals like ''Show Boat,'' ''Kiss Me Kate,'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' and later of the television show ''Dallas,'' died early yesterday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 85. The cause was colon cancer
 HOWLAND -- Thielo. (Born 1912.) Died peacefully at his home in Ridgefield, CT, on November 6th, after a long and happy life. He is survived by his loving wife Genoveva Franco Howland, his children Richard, Andrew, Deborah and John; seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. We will re
 MILLER--Seymour A., M.D. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern Rabbi Emeritus       
 RESNICK--Robert Lewis. On November 6. Last survivor of the flag raising at Iwo Jima. Man of courage, great intelligence, phenomenal wit. He is survived by his children Laura Resnick-Ostrer, Dana and Bryan Resnick; grandchildren Evan, Josh, Courtney and Zach, and new and childhood friends. S
 SCHWARTZ--David. Passed away on November 7, 2004, in his 85th year. Beloved husband of Alice. Devoted father of Audrea, Lenore and brother-in-law of Rodney Stuart and David Wasser. Adoring grandpa of Nina, Joel, Seth, Joshua and Mitchell, and great-grandpa of Allison. Devoted brother-in-law
 Alexander Bassin, a founder of Daytop Village, the oldest continuing residential drug treatment program in the United States, died on Wednesday at his home in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 92. Msgr. William B. O'Brien, a co-founder of Daytop Village and its president, announced the death
 COOPER--Warren Peters. Of Delaware Township, NJ on November 5. Son of the late William J. and Lanita Peters Cooper. He was a 1950 graduate at Yale University. He served in the U.S. Navy in the Korean War. He was formerly Chief Actuary for the State of New Jersey, a retired principal at Erns
 CREAGHAN--George B. was taken to his rest today by those who loved him, his magnificent wife Ellen, his son Dennis, daughters Patricia and Georgina, son-law-law Mark Tillinger and brother and sister-in-law Charles and Phyllis Ponsford. Mr. Creaghan, an entreprenuer, was born in London, Engl
 EPSTEIN -- Herman. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sadness the death of Herman Epstein, beloved father of Michael Epstein, a dedicated agency trustee. Our sincere condolences to Michael and his entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President A
 HACHENBURG -- Robert. Died on November 7, 2004, at age 86 at his home in Philadelphia, PA. Professor of Law at Temple University School of Law following a twenty year career at A.M. Greenfield & Co., where he was Vice President & General Counsel. Served as a naval intelligence officer from 
 HYLAND--Thomas F. Jr., of Cornwall, NY, retired Senior VP at Chase Manhattan Bank, passed away on November 6th. He was 56. He is survived by his loving wife of 33 years, Patricia and two sons; Timothy and his wife, Melissa of Verona, NJ and Terence of Herndon, VA. The Mass of Christian buri
 MENAKER--Martin. On November 8, 2004 at the age of 72 of complications from Parkinson's disease. Devoted and loving husband to Saundra. Cherished father of Melanie Seaman, Ellen Sansone and Lawrence Menaker. Father-in-law to Ed Seaman, Tony Sansone and Debra Menaker. Stepfather to Darryl an
 PAPAYANIS -- Nicholas. On November 6, 2004. Professor Emeritus of History at Brooklyn College and distinguished author of numerous books and articles on modern France and Paris. He is survived by his wife Marilyn.       
 PARRINO--Dionisio passed away peacefully at the age of 91 on November 7, 2004. He earned his doctorate at NYU in 1954 and pursued an extraordinary career in public and private education. He taught his students until he was 78. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Joan Parrino, his son Ma
 PATTERSON--Ellmore C. November 29, 1913-November 5, 2004. Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of J.P. Morgan & Co. Survived by his wife, Anne, his five sons, Michael, Arthur, Robert, David and Thomas, 14 grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Memorial service at 11:00AM, Novembe
 RESNICK--Robert L. Will be greatly missed by all his friends at the Delray Beach Club. Your most loving friend, William Callahan       
 UDELL--Harold. On November 6, 2004, beloved husband of the late Matilde, loving father of Diane, Nancy, and Alan, dearest father-in-law of Mauro and Robyn, adored grandfather of Lindsay, Samuel, and Dustin. Cherished brother of Arthur, Maxine, and the late Bernard and Nanette. His kindness 
 WARNER--Charles H. Jr. Of Upper Nyack, NY died peacefully on November 2, 2004 at age 93. A graduate of Choate, Wesleyan University and Columbia University, he was founder and senior partner of the architectural firm Warner, Burns, Toan & Lunde. He designed numerous hotels, university buildi
 Ellmore C. Patterson, a New York banker who was instrumental in shaping the financial community's response to the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in Locust Valley, N.Y. He was 90 and also had residences on Fishers Island and in Hobe Sound, Fla. Mr. Pat
 Jimmy McLarnin, an enormously popular fighter who beat 13 world champions, including Benny Leonard and Barney Ross, during his 14-year professional career, died Oct. 28. He was 96. McLarnin, known as Baby Face, died in an assisted-living home in Richland, Wash., where he had lived f
 ALLEN--Thomas B. The Officers and Members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member, Tom Allen. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 FLEISCHMAN--Harry. The Workers Defense League mourns the loss of our longtime national chairman. Harry Fleischman was a wise and gentle man, an ardent advocate of civil rights and labor rights, and a fine writer. We extend condolences to his family and his many friends.       
 KIRSCHNER--Andrew C. It is with deep sorrow and affection that The New York Times mourns the death of our colleague, Andrew C. Kirschner, on November 8th. Andy's grace, perseverance, strength, and perspective throughout his long illness inspired us all. He was a hero and a friend, possessin
 KOFFLER--Stephen A., adoring husband to Enid, and loving father to two daughters, Samara and Debra, passed away on Friday November 5, 2004 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Born in Providence, Rhode Island in 1942, Stephen earned his doctorate at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
 MENAKER -- Martin. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to the family of our longtime advisor and friend, Martin Menaker. Martin consulted with and advised our firm brilliantly for many years and we are deeply indebted to him for 
 PATTERSON -- Ellmore C. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Boards of Managers of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases and of the SloanKettering Institute for Cancer Research record with sorrow the passing of Ellmore (Pat)
 REILLY--Conor. The partners, associates and staff of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP mourn the tragic and untimely passing of Conor Reilly, our friend and partner in the firm's New York office. Conor was well known and highly respected in the legal community for his brilliance, energy and wit. 
 ZHARNEST--David. 45, of New York City, N.Y. and Manalapan, N.J., passed away on November 9, 2004 at Englewood Hospital, Englewood, N.J. David is survived by his wife Lauren and his three adoring children, Michael age 18, Andrew age 13, and Jessica age 8. He was the beloved husband and fathe
 BLEAMAN -- Milton. Born January 5, 1921 in the Bronx, NY and lived in Los Angeles since 1954, passed away on November 10, 2004. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Jeffrey (Corky) and Bruce (Elyse), cherished grandfather of David (Ilona), Stacey (Alex), Jessica and Isaac, great-gr
 COUNTS--Dr. Robert M., on November 3, in New York City. Born in Rossville, Kansas in 1924, he practiced psychiatry in Massachusetts and the greater New York area for five decades. Dr. Counts earned his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis. He was the first director of the 
 FELDMAN -- Beatrice. The Board of Directors, staff, and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of Beatrice Feldman, beloved mother of Richard Feldman, a dear friend, current member and past chair of our Board of Directors. We extend our deepest condolences to Richard a
 Yasir Arafat, who died this morning in Paris, was the wily and enigmatic father of Palestinian nationalism who for almost 40 years symbolized his people's longing for a distinct political identity and independent state. He was 75. No other individual so embodied the Palestinians' pl
 Basil Thompson, a British dancer who became artistic director of the Milwaukee Ballet and an influential ballet master at the Joffrey Ballet, died in Lynchburg, Va., on Nov. 2. He was 67 and lived in Iowa City, where he taught at the University of Iowa. The cause was cardiac arrest,
 Chandler Harper, who won the 1950 Professional Golfers' Association Championship and became a mentor to Curtis Strange, a future two-time United States Open champion, died Monday in a hospital in Portsmouth, Va. He was 90 and lived all his life in Portsmouth. The cause of death was 
 Harry Schwartz, an editorial writer for The New York Times from 1951 to 1979 and a specialist in Soviet and East European affairs who wrote and lectured extensively on the cold war and later on health care, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was
 BAYBUTT--John Alden, died at Portsmouth Regional Hospital (NH) on Monday, October 25, after a short illness. He was born in Cambridge, MA, in 1918. After attending Dartmouth College, he served as a Lieutenant in command of LST 759. After the war, he married Anne Cabell Noland of Arlington, 
 BERNARDS--Rabbi Solomon. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who served as Director of Interreligious Affairs for the ADL until retirement. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.
 BLEAMAN -- Milton. Born January 5, 1921 in the Bronx, NY and lived in Los Angeles since 1954, passed away on November 10, 2004. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Jeffrey (Corky) and Bruce (Elyse), cherished grandfather of David (Ilona), Stacey (Alex), Jessica and Isaac, great-gr
 CHAIKIN--Fred, 75, of 102 New Kirk Way, died Thursday, November 11, 2004 at 5:00 AM. Born in New York City he was the son of the late Jacob and Pauline Chaikin. He was a graduate of Wharton School of Finance--University of Pennsylvania and was owner and operator of Renee's Fish Market. Mr. 
 DAVIS--Theodore (Teddy), died peacefully on November 10th, 2004 in Delray Beach, FL at age 68. Beloved husband of Cyndee, loving father to his son and daughter-in-law, Michael and Jennifer, and doting father to his daughter, Jennifer. Brother and brother-in-law of Malcolm, Ilene and George 
 ECKHARDT--William F. Jr. MD, 75, on November 8, 2004, at his home in New Canaan, CT. Son of the late William F. and Mary T. Eckhardt, he was a graduate of Xavier High School in NY, Columbia University, and New York University School of Medicine. He was a specialist in Internal Medicine, Nuc
 SCHWARTZ -- Harry. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 SMITH--William J. of Brewster, NY passed away Sunday, November 7, 2004 at the age of 60. Husband and best friend to Ann Marie, father to Stephen and Greg, and brother to Trudy. Bill loved his family above all. In nearly 40 years as an educator, most recently as principal of Edgemont Jr.-Sr.
 SOLOV--Zachary. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Zachary Solov, the company's chief choreographer and ballet master from 1951 to 1956. He continued to work with the company through the 1980's, and his choreography was seen in 28 operas as well as two ballets. A mentor and friend t
 STEINWAY--Frederick. The House of Steinway & Sons announces with deep sorrow the death of Frederick ''Fritz'' Steinway, on November 9, 2004 after a long illness, at the age of 83. Frederick was the fourth and youngest son of the late Theodore E. Steinway and great grandson of Henry Engelhar
 Yasir Arafat, who died yesterday morning in Paris, was the wily and enigmatic father of Palestinian nationalism who for almost 40 years symbolized his people's longing for a distinct political identity and an independent state. He was 75. No other individual so embodied the Palestin
 Zachary Solov, a dancer and choreographer who led the Metropolitan Opera Ballet when Rudolf Bing was the opera's general manager, died on Saturday in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said Dean Temple, who is writing Mr. Solov's authorized biog
 George Gross, who reorganized New York's vast and troubled Human Resources Administration as its commissioner in the mid-1980's, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He had lung cancer and died after surgery to remove a section of his lungs, said 
 COLEMAN--Dr. Lester Laudy. Death came peacefully on November 11th. A man beloved by the patients whom he served in a career that spanned 70 years. Dr. Coleman was a graduate of Johns Hopkins University and Long Island College of Medicine. He held the position of Attending Surgeon in Otolary
 DAVIS--Alfred. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 ECKHARDT--William F. Jr. MD, 75, on November 8, 2004, at his home in New Canaan, CT. Son of the late William F. and Mary T. Eckhardt, he was a graduate of Xavier High School in NY, Columbia University, and New York University School of Medicine. He was a specialist in Internal Medicine, Nuc
 KESTENBAUM--Milton S. On November 11, at 881/2. Beloved husband of Rae. Devoted father of David and Joy. WWII veteran. Longtime resident of Ardsley, NY. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Services Sunday, 10:00am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY. 914-
 KIERNAN--Terence C. 63, of Trumbull, CT, formerly of Brooklyn, died peacefully in the Connecticut Hospice on Thursday, October 21 after a brief illness. Terry had retired to Teresian Towers in Trumbull in August 2003. Terry grew up in Stratford. He graduated from Fairfield Prep, earned a Ba
 MORTON -- Trevor Barrett. Born September 22, 1983 died tragically in an automobile accident in New Orleans on November 11, 2004. Senior at Tulane University. Beloved son of Hedy Meltzer and Robert Christopher Morton, beloved step-son of Lori Posin and Bruce Meltzer. Grandson of Sylvia and S
 TANNENBAUM -- William. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President 
 Thomas B. Allen, who helped originate a post-Norman Rockwell style of moodily impressionistic illustration and who was best known for his colorful portraits of country and western, bluegrass and jazz musicians for album covers, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 76.        
 Michel T. Halbouty, a legendary wildcatter who discovered more than 50 oil and gas fields from Louisiana to Alaska and warned of the Arab oil embargo 13 years before it happened, died on Nov. 6 at a Houston hospital. He was 95. Mary Stewart, his assistant for many years, confirmed t
 Milton H. Cohen, a securities lawyer whose insights into the stock market became the basis for innumerable regulatory proposals over the last 40 years, died Oct. 30 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. His death was announced by Schiff Hardin, the law firm where Mr. Cohen was a 
 BASCH--Randy. 55, formerly of Ozone Park, Queens passed away Thursday, November 11 after a brave fight against cancer. As a Project Manager for 32 years he was involved in the construction of the former Twin Towers and LaGuardia Airport parking garage, amongst others. His passions were his 
 BROWN--Joe R. Rochester, MN, died Saturday, October 30, 2004 at Charter House. A pioneer in Neurology and a passionate liberal, Dr. Brown graduated from the University of Iowa Medical School, MD (1937). Married Rebecca Frisbee, 1937. Mayo Clinic fellowship, MS 1943. Served in WWII, Medical 
 COLEMAN--Dr. Lester Laudy. Death came peacefully on November 11th. A man beloved by the patients whom he served in a career that spanned 70 years. Dr. Coleman was a graduate of Johns Hopkins University and Long Island College of Medicine. He held the position of Attending Surgeon in Otolary
 DAVIS--Theodore Richard, 68 years old. On November 10, 2004, at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. Beloved husband of Cynthia. Cherished and devoted father of Jennifer and Michael. Brother of Malcolm and George. Son of the late Samuel and Beatrice Davis. Words cannot describe his passion for li
 ECKHARDT--William F. Jr. MD, 75, on November 8, 2004, at his home in New Canaan, CT. Son of the late William F. and Mary T. Eckhardt, he was a graduate of Xavier High School in NY, Columbia University, and New York University School of Medicine. He was a specialist in Internal Medicine, Nuc
 KESTENBAUM--Milton S. On November 11, at 881/2. Beloved husband of Rae. Devoted father of David and Joy. WWII veteran. Longtime resident of Ardsley, NY. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Services Sunday, 10:00am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY. 914-
 KINDMAN--Jerry. With deep sorrow and affection we mourn the passing of Jerry Kindman on November 12, 2004, at the age of 67. He was surrounded by family and friends. Beloved husband of Gloria, devoted father of Hillary, Jennifer and the late Stewart. He was both an intellectual and an adven
 LEVY--Albert Lederer. My beloved Albie, passed away November 4, 2004 after a valiant battle. He was a most special man who was proud to share his birthday with Winston Churchill, Mark Twain and Jonathan Swift. He practiced law for 53 years in Passaic, N.J. where he was born and in Clifton, 
 LEVY--Rabbi Theodore S., beloved & cherished husband of Ina Rae Burdman Levy; devoted and adoring father of Seth, Dr. Cynthia and Jonathan and his wife Karen. Proud grandfather of Jacob, Sarah, Leah, Dori and Zachary Levy. Loving brother of Fredda Levy Stan and brother-in-law of Ethan Stang
 MATHEWS--Walter. On November 10, 2004. Walter was born in San Francisco on October 19, 1922. For five years he served proudly as a Navy officer during WWII. Working for American Airlines, he moved to NYC in 1955. In the 60s he created and edited for many years ''Briefing'', a restaurant new
 MEVORACH--Morton Buddy on November 6, 2004. Loving husband, father, grandfather. Wife Estelle; sons, Dr. David Mevorach (Dr. Silke Schweidt), Dr. Robert Mevorach (Dr. Debra Khani); grandchildren, Saroyah Anne, Martha Elisabeth, Cyrus Aaron. Born in Manhattan, raised in Harlem, Stuyesant H.S
 MORTON -- Trevor Barrett. Born September 22, 1983 died tragically in an automobile accident in New Orleans on November 11, 2004. Senior at Tulane University. Beloved son of Hedy Meltzer and Robert Christopher Morton, beloved step-son of Lori Posin and Bruce Meltzer. Grandson of Sylvia and S
 O'BRIEN--James R. On October 7, 2004. Born Springfield, Ma. Retired from UMDNJNJMS Division of Infectious Diseases, also of NYC Health Department, 1199 SEIU and AECOM, a volunteer at The Gay and Lesbian Community Center and Medicins Sans Frontieres; beloved friend and uncle. We mourn his lo
 SCHILDWAECHTER -- Diet mar PhD, M.D. Residing in Sterling, Virginia died on Saturday, November 6, 2004. Through his humanitarianism and pioneering work on the cancer and immune blood profile he saved lives worldwide. Visitation Friday November 19th 5:30-8PM at Adams - Green Funeral Home, He
 TAKLA--Waguih. Our very dear friend passed away on November 12, 2004. Beloved by people all over the world, Waguih will be in our hearts forever. He had a profound love for life and brought joy & peace to all who knew him. Merle and Herb Rein and Family       
 TRACT--Harold M. Of blessed memory. He was a truly noble man. Passed away on November 18, 1991       
 Dr. Arthur H. Robinson, a geographer who improved on the venerable Mercator projection for drawing the round Earth on a flat map, died on Oct. 10 in Madison, Wis. He was 89. His death, after a brief illness, was announced by the University of Wisconsin, where he was an emeritus prof
 BERGMAN--Sidney H. On November 13, in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Geraldine Glantz, adored father of the late Pamela Brame, cherished Papa of Jeremy and Daniel Brame, loving brother of Bernard, and devoted brother-in-law and uncle. His family will sorely miss him.       
 BERKOWITZ--Edward. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Wesley and his wife Carole. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Ethan. Loving brother of Arthur. Thank you for being a wonderful father for over 53 years. You will be dearly missed.       
 BOURKE--Rev. Msgr. Myles. M. Pastor Emeritus of Corpus Christi Parish in New York City died peacefully on Novmember 13, 2004. A renowned scripture scholar, Msgr. Bourke held teaching appointments at St. Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, Fordham University and the Pontifical Biblical Institute i
 MILBAUER--Richard S. On November 13, 2004. Motion picture producer with Motivision Ltd. He received his Masters Degree in Economics from the University of Wisconsin, and began his career in radio on WHA in Madison, and then went on to produce news films and EAPs. Husband of Mickey, father o
 SINIS--Gregory. Survived by his devoted wife Mary (Hickey), his loving daughter Ellen and Jeff Badger, and his loving brothers, sister and many friends. Reposing at the Joseph Farenga and Sons Funeral Home, 3808 Ditmars Blvd, Astoria, NY, on Monday, 7-9 pm, Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9 pm, and Wedne
 WIELGUS--Charles ''Chuck'' Joseph passed away on November 11. He retired in 1988 as the Executive Vice President of Dun & Bradstreet Companies, and lived in Larchmont, NY. He is survived by his wife, Irene, and three children, Charles, Paul and Martie. He had 10 grandchildren. Services will
 Robert Koch Woolf, the Los Angeles decorator who with his partner, the architect John Elgin Woolf, created a new style of luxury in Hollywood in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 81. The cause was complications of surgery, according to Gen
 Robin Kenyatta, a jazz saxophonist and composer whose eclectic style embraced hard bop, free jazz and an array of diverse influences from Latin to blues, died on Oct. 26 in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kenyatta, who was scheduled to perform in Lucerne
 Harry Lampert, an illustrator who in 1940 first drew the winged-footed, faster-than-light superhero known as the Flash for DC Comics and a half-century later was rediscovered by a new generation of fans, died on Saturday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 88. A resident of Deerfield Beach, Fla., an
 John E. Reilly, an auto executive who lobbied for open markets for imported cars at a time when domestic makers were at their most defensive, died Nov. 12 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 77. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his son Robert. Mr. Reilly, who wa
 APPEL--Saul. Died November 14, 2004. Survived by his loving and devoted wife Katie for 59 years, his son Alan, his daughter Elise, his grandchildren Aaron, Farrah, Jackie and Keith, and his brother Carl. Funeral services at Sherman's, 1283 Coney Island Ave, Brooklyn at Noon, Tuesday, Novemb
 BERGMAN--Sidney H. On November 13, in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Geraldine Glantz, adored father of the late Pamela Brame, cherished Papa of Jeremy and Daniel Brame, loving brother of Bernard, and devoted brother-in-law and uncle. His family will sorely miss him.       
 BOURKE--Rev. Msgr. Myles. M. Pastor Emeritus of Corpus Christi Parish in New York City died peacefully on Novmember 13, 2004. A renowned scripture scholar, Msgr. Bourke held teaching appointments at St. Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, Fordham University and the Pontifical Biblical Institute i
 BURKO--Harvey. The members of the New York Social Security Bar Association send our heartfelt condolences to the family of Harvey Burko, a past President of our Association, an esteemed colleague and a valued friend. He will be greatly missed by all of us. David Kuznicki, President Richard 
 COLEMAN--Lester L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. William Stein, M.D., Pres. Barry Stimmel, M.D., VP Elliot Rayfield, M.D., Secretar
 KAUFMAN--Berdie L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Berdie L. Kaufman, beloved mother of Myron Kaufman; and mother-in-law of Joan Kaufman; devoted leaders whose commitment has strengthened our ability to serve those in need. We e
 MALAMUT -- Abraham L. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend & past Chairman of the Board, Abraham L. Malamut. On behalf of the thousands of elderly men an
 NEHRING--Richard Charles. Age 84, of Seabrook Village, Tinton Falls, died Saturday, November 13, 2004 at Renaissance Gardens. He was born in NYC and attended Roosevelt High School in Yonkers. He was a 1942 graduate of Dartmouth College. He served his country in the U.S. Navy during W.W. II,
 ROTH--Emanuel M. Beloved husband Of Doris. Devoted father of Joy and Russell Leavitt, Lynne and Allan Reich and Carol Roth. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Carrie, Amy, Allison, Marissa, Jessica and Scott, and great grandfather of David. Truly a member of ''the greatest generation'' and reci
 STEINWAY--Frederick. Bard College mourns the passing of Frederick Steinway, Bard alumnus from the class of 1943. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman       
 WALSH--Rev. Brother Timothy, O.S.F. On November 14, 2004. Survived by his brother William Regan and niece Kathrym Cox. Reposing at St. Francis College, 180 Joralemon St, Brooklyn. Visiting Tuesday and Wednesday 2 to 4 and 7 to 9PM. Funeral Thursday. Mass of Christian Burial 10:30AM at St. C
 Bill Bennett, a pioneer aviator and entrepreneur who helped introduce the fledgling sport of hang gliding to America in the 1960's and 70's, died on Oct. 7 in an accident during takeoff at the airport in Lake Havasu City, Ariz., where he lived. He was 73. Margo Brown, his fiance, 
 CARY--Guy. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are saddened by the death of our long-time friend and generous benefactor. Guy Cary joined the Board of Trustees in 1968 and was named an Honorary Trustee in 1999. He served on many important committees and in p
 KATZ--Alan. Beloved husband of Harriette. Devoted father of Andrea Eduard, Bruce, Cathy, Mili and Karen. Cherished grandfather of Lara, Alex, Evan and Amelia. Loving brother of David, Sue, Selma and Sherwin. A man of integrity and wisdom, he practiced law for 47 years in NYC. He lived a jus
 KING--David V. Of Old Westbury on November 15, 2004. Loving husband of Gisele. Beloved father of Michael, Bradley, Suzanne and Daniel. He was a very loving and caring grandfather. Friends may call Wednesday and Thursday 6-9PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 412 Willis Ave., Williston 
 MINTZ--Walter. Died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, November 16, 2004 after a long illness. He was the dearly loved husband of Sandra Earl Mintz. Born February 23, 1929 in Vienna, Austria the son of the late Maximillian and Ilse Schueller Mintz, he came to the United States with his fa
 NEMORE -- Arnold. Passed away unexpectedly late October in Washington D.C. He was a well respected, nationally renowned independent healthcare consultant. He counted among his clients many physician groups, hospitals and health plans across the country. No immediate services are planned, ho
 NICHOLSON--Stevens G., Jr. Graduate of Columbia University Law School, practicing attorney in NYC, resident of New Rochelle for 38 years. In Chapel Hill, NC November 14, 73 years old. Beloved husband of Ruth, beloved father of Abbye, Sherry, Jeffrey, Andrew and Keith, beloved brother of Mar
 O'DONNELL--J. Leonard. On November 14, 2004. Beloved husband of Lillian. Mr. O'Donnell was a past treasurer of The American Stock Exchange, a member of The West Side Tennis Club for 50 years, a member The Seventh Regiment Tennis Club, council member of St. Vincent Ferrer Church and WWII Vet
 RUBLOFF--Ivan. Age 75. Of Astoria, Queens, N.Y., died unexpectedly on November 15, 2004. He is survived by his children Jay and Risa Rubloff of Bedford, N.Y. and Sheryl and Marc Schlackman of Sudbury, MA.; his grandchildren Ross, Michael and Holly; and his former spouse Claire Rubloff of Bo
 SCHWAB--Betty B. 78, passed away peacefully November 13, after a five-year, courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved wife of Martin for 55 years. Adored mother of Jeffrey and Magdi, Sally and Sam Honig, Steven and Susan, sister of Elizabeth and Richard Fuld. Devoted grandmother of Jay
 WALSH--Rev. Brother Timothy, O.S.F. On November 14, 2004. Survived by his brother William Regan and niece Kathrym Cox. Reposing at St. Francis College, 180 Remsen St, Brooklyn. Visiting Tuesday and Wednesday 2 to 4 and 7 to 9PM. Funeral Thursday. Mass of Christian Burial 10:30AM at St. Char
 Dr. Sidney Goldring, a neurosurgeon and educator who was an early advocate for a brain operation that he helped to develop for patients with severe epilepsy, died on Nov. 3 at a nursing home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which wa
 John J. Burns, a mainstay of New York politics who led the state's Democratic Party in the 1960's and helped guide campaigns of Robert F. Kennedy and Hugh L. Carey died Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 83 and until recently had lived in Binghamton, where he was mayor for two terms. Th
 Dr. Joseph Weiss, a psychoanalyst and researcher who helped develop an influential theory involving ways that patients confront psychological trauma and then strive to overcome it, died Nov. 7 at his home in San Francisco. He was 80. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said 
 Norman Rose, a veteran stage actor whose sonorous baritone gained him national attention as the voice of Juan Valdez, the fictitious coffee grower and advertising spokesman for Colombian coffee, died on Friday at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 87. His death was announced by Jo
 CARY--Guy. It is with sadness and great fondness we mark the loss of Guy Cary. He was a very long time resident and past President of our building. He was known by one and all, and beloved by staff and tenants. We shall miss him! The Board of Directors 150 E. 73rd St and Anne L. Millard Pre
 KANE--Jasper Herbert, 101 years old, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Shelter Island, LI, NY, passed away peacefully on November 16, 2004. He is survived by his sister, Evelyn Kane; son-in-law, Walter C.A. Schrader, and grandsons, W. Kurt Schrader, Mark J. Schrader and Scott K. Schrader, an
 KRAMER -- Henry T. Of Branchburg, NJ died November 15, 2004. He was a former president of North American Reinsurance and SwissRe Management Corporations, and a founding member and past chairman of the Reinsurance Association of America. Born April 8, 1917 in Chicago, IL, educated at Lawrenc
 LOEB--Peter. The Board and staff of New York City Center deeply mourn the passing of our devoted Board member, Peter Loeb. For eleven years, he served on City Center's Board of Directors and generously gave his time, wisdom and support in so many ways. He was passionate about young people, 
 MILBAUER--Richard S. on November 13, 2004. Born January 8, 1927, in Brooklyn, NY, son of Philip and Jean (Bloom) Milbauer. He received his Master's in Economics from the University of Wisconsin and began his career in radio at WHA in Madison and went on to produce news and training films. H
 MINTZ--Walter. Died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, November 16, 2004 after a long illness. He was the dearly loved husband of Sandra Earl Mintz. Born February 23, 1929 in Vienna, Austria the son of the late Maximillian and Ilse Schueller Mintz, he came to the United States with his fa
 YOUNG--Adam, 91, died on November 15, 2004 of a stroke, at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, FL. He was a native of New York City. Adam Young, a page for the National Broadcasting Company while in his teens who then went on to co-found Young Broadcasting, Inc., one of the country's 25 
 Adam Young, who helped found one of the nation's 25 largest television station groups, died Monday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91. He had a stroke, Young Broadcasting Inc. said. Mr. Young joined NBC as a page at 17, and moved up to the research and promotion department before
 Bobby Frank Cherry, the former Klansman whose conviction two years ago for the church bombing that killed four black girls in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963 resolved one of the most shocking cases of the civil rights era, died yesterday at the Kilby Correctional Facility near Montgomery, Ala., a
 CARY--Guy Fairfax. Of New York and Newport, died November 15, 2004 at home. Born July 11, 1923 to Cynthia Burke Roche Cary and Guy Fairfax Cary. He was a graduate of The Buckley School, Groton School and Harvard University, class of 1946. He was a Veteran of World War II, serving in the Arm
 FASS--Stanley K. Dear friend and beloved cousin, died suddenly but peacefully in his sleep on November 18. Renowned international businessman, respected and loved worldwide. He will be truly missed. Friends will be received at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Sunday, November
 FLEISCHNER--Irwin (Flick), age 82, on November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Benjamin and Jean, Jennifer and Alex, Judith and Jean-Louis, David and Diana; grandfather of Adam, Rebecca, Greta, Jesse, Annie, Nicole and Audrey. Owner and Director of Camp Scatico; principal of Ja
 GREENBERG--Max died on November 15th in the company of his wife and daughters as his friend, poet Michael Riordan, was reading Max's own poetry to him. A Veteran of World War II Max was a member of the 7th Signal Liaison Team, an intelligence unit taking part in the liberation of Paris, the
 KANE--Jasper H. The Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of Dr. Jasper H. Kane, alumnus, generous benefactor and 1995 Honorary Doctorate of Science recipient of the University. Dr. Kane's vision and enormous contribution
 KEMPIN--Philip. In New York City at the Brevoort. Formerly of Boca Raton, FL on November 18, 2004. Born October 28, 1914 in Kalisz, Poland. The consummate salesman and avid reader. Devoted husband of the late Jean Kempin. He is survived by his son Sanford Kempin and daughter Gail Apsel, his
 LAKE--Charles H., 81, died at home in Naples, FL on November 13. Loving husband, father, WWII PT Boat Commander, attorney, civic leader, athlete. CCNY, Cornell LLB, NYU LLM. Survived by his devoted wife of 49 years, Vivianne Orendain of Guadalajara, Mexico, and daughter, Vivianne of NYC. Me
 LOEB--Peter K. November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Peter, Karen, James and Alexander. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Marina and Victoria. Devoted brother of Carl & Constance. Memorial service Monday, November 22nd, 11AM at City Center, West 55th Street between
 MINTZ--Walter. Died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, November 16, 2004 after a long illness. He was the dearly loved husband of Sandra Earl Mintz. Born February 23, 1929 in Vienna, Austria the son of the late Maximillian and Ilse Schueller Mintz, he came to the United States with his fa
 RIZZO--Alberto, 73, an art and fashion photographer, died of leukemia on October 9th in Miami. Rizzo was born in Rome. His first career as a ballet dancer brought him to the US in 1965 when he moved to California to dance with Fred Astaire. At 30, he picked up a camera for the first time an
 Reed Irvine, the founder of Accuracy in Media, a watchdog group dedicated to exposing, challenging and at times bullying those he accused of slanting news coverage from a liberal perspective, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 82. A longtime resident of Silver Spring, Md.
 Cy Coleman, the debonair jazz pianist and composer of legendary Broadway tunes like ''Witchcraft,'' ''Big Spender'' and ''The Best Is Yet to Come,'' died on Thursday night at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said John Bar
 Jasper Herbert Kane, a biochemist who had a central role in moving antibiotics like penicillin from the laboratory table into industrial production in World War II, died on Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. A resident of Delray Beach, Fla., he formerly lived in Shelter Island and Garden City, N.Y
 COLEMAN--Cy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved member Cy Coleman. He helped us preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club and his name belongs among the legendary and immortal Friars like Rodgers, Hammerstein, P
 FASS--Stanley K. Dear friend and beloved cousin, died suddenly but peacefully in his sleep on November 18. Renowned international businessman, respected and loved worldwide. He will be truly missed. Friends will be received at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Sunday, November
 LEVINE--Lawrence S. On November 18, 2004. Beloved husband of Linda. Adored father of Lauren Levine and her husband Jim Spound, Audrey Levine and her husband Nels Johnson, Hilary Levine and her husband Tony Hacking, and grandfather of Daniel, Jesse, Silas, Harry, and Aliza, brother of Alan L
 LOEB--Peter K. November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Peter, Karen, James and Alexander. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Marina and Victoria. Devoted brother of Carl & Constance. Memorial service Monday, November 22nd, 11AM at City Center, West 55th Street between
 PLESSER--Ronald L. Beloved father, husband, son, brother and uncle. Mourned by his family and friends. Memorial Sunday, November 21, at 2pm, Temple Sinai, 3100 Military Rd, Washington, D.C.       
 Martin M. Kaplan, a virologist, international public health official and humanitarian who spent his early career researching the spread of viral diseases and his later career working to fight the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, died on Oct. 16 in Geneva. He was 89 and li
 COLEMAN--Cy. We mourn the loss of this enormously talented man, a dear friend, whose music reflected his grace and wit and warmth. It was our privilege to have worked with Cy on several productions and he gave us some of our happiest memoments in the theatre. He leaves us with treasured and
 COLEMAN--Dr. Lester Laudy was one of my father's closest friends. They played handball at eight and enjoyed a friendship that lasted over 75 years. Laudy saved my life at five years of age. He was my doctor, adopted uncle, friend and if necessary he would have been my Rabbi. There are not e
 FACTOR--Sheldon ''Shelly,'' 75, of Brooklyn, NY and Las Vegas, NV, passed suddenly on Saturday, November 13th in Las Vegas. He was born Sheldon Fakterman on June 27, 1929 in Brooklyn. He retired as Director of Finance of the Rent Stabilization Association of NY and served in the U.S. Marine
 FASS--Stanley K. Dear friend and beloved cousin, died suddenly but peacefully in his sleep on November 18. Renowned international businessman, respected and loved worldwide. He will be truly missed. Friends will be received at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Sunday, November
 FLANNERY--John F., Jr. on November 19, 2004 after 49 years of bringing joy, love and fun to all who knew him. Jack died peacefully at his Upper West Side home, ending an 11 year battle with brain cancer. Beloved husband of Irene Little Flannery. Loving father of John F., III (14) and Kather
 JONES--Edwin M., Esq. Age 88, on November 19, 2004, at his home in Stamford, CT. Beloved husband of Alberta (nee Conway); loving father of Michele Delmhorst of Stonington, CT, Karen Fronio of Kerhonkson, NY, Tina Will of Fredericksburg, VA, Edwin M. Jones, Jr. of Stamford, CT, and Marianne 
 LEWIN--Stephen J. With great sorrow we announce the passing of Stephen J. Lewin on November 17, 2004. He leaves behind his wife, Barbara; his children, Greg and Jayme, and Lisa and Charlie; his grandchildren, Alex, Daniel, Ben and Claire, and his sister, Charlotte. Our lives are richer beca
 LOEB--Peter K. November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Peter, Karen, James and Alexander. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Marina and Victoria. Devoted brother of Carl & Constance. Memorial service Monday, November 22nd, 11AM at City Center, West 55th Street between
 MEGGITT--Dr. Mervyn John, distinguished Professor Emeritus, of Anthropology at City University of New York, died peacefully on November 13. Mervyn graduated from the University of Sydney, Australia, where he conducted pioneering research on the peoples of the Central Desert of Australia and
 MINTZ--Walter. Died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, November 16, 2004 after a long illness. He was the dearly loved husband of Sandra Earl Mintz. Born February 23, 1929 in Vienna, Austria the son of the late Maximillian and Ilse Schueller Mintz, he came to the United States with his fa
 PAINE--Peter S. aged 95, of 240 South Beach Rd., Hobe Sound, FL died, peacefully after a massive stroke, at his seasonal home Boquette Farm in Willsboro, N.Y., the town where he was born. Services and interment were private. A memorial celebration of his life will be held next summer. He is
 YEDLIN--Benedict. The family of Benedict Yedlin will hold a memorial service in his honor on Friday, November 26, 2004, 2 PM, at Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Princeton, 50 Cherry Hill Rd, Princeton, NJ 08540.       
 Covington Hardee, a lawyer who led one of Brooklyn's oldest banks, died Nov. 1 in Kent, Conn. He was 85 and until recently lived in Washington, Conn. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Diana. In 1975, after being a trustee for several years, Mr. Hardee became chairman and c
 Jimmy Lovelace, a veteran bebop drummer who performed with some of New York's leading jazz musicians, died on Oct. 29 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Okaru Hoshino, said. Mr. Lovelace was a re
 EPSTEIN--Bernard. At 86, on November 19, 2004. Beloved husband of Lillian. Loving father of David and Judy, Ellen and Peter Rosenberg, and Arlene and Jeff Burnett. Cherished grandfather of Pamela and Brian, Jenna and Mark, and Neil and Laura. He was a veteran of World War II, a longtime vol
 FASS--Stanley K. Great man, kind, generous, always fun to be with. Stan showed us a world of experiences we only dreamed about. We will miss him terribly. The Kirwins       
 FRIEDMAN--Alvin C. Died peacefully on November 21, 2004, in the company of his wife and family in Florida. He was born in 1916, in Fort Collins, CO, and for 50 years resided in Fort Lee, NJ, until autumn of 2004. He is survived by his loving wife of 61 years, Sophie. He was the loving fathe
 GRAY--Arthur, M.D. The physicians and staff of Queens-Long Island Medical Group are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend, esteemed shareholder, and cherished member of our Board of Directors. Dr. Gray was a distinguished and dedicated Orthopedist with our Group for almost 30
 KAHN--R. T. (Robert). 71, on November 18, 2004. Renowned international photojournalist known for his storytelling. Survived by wife Bettina and daughter Elizabeth. We will miss his sense of humor.       
 McCARTHY--Patrick J. On November 19, 2004, native son of Macroom County Cork, Ireland, avid bicyclist. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Timothy, Michael and his wife Winnie, Dennis and Patrick and his wife Carmel. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Brian, KaraAnn and Ciaran. Devoted
 TIMPANARO -- Sylvester ''Timmy.'' March 1, 1933-November 13, 2004. It was never Sylvester, always just Timmy. To his family and his friends (he had hundreds of friends) always just Timmy. Everyone who knew and loved Timmy will miss him too much to explain. Over time empty places in our live
 BURKS -- Alvin. November 22nd, 2001. ''Because I could not stop for Death, He kindly stopped for me.'' Deeply missed by his wife, Harriette; his daughters, Juanita, Ruth and Roslyn; and his grandchildren, Gyasi and Natasha.       
 Peter K. Loeb, an investment manager and a philanthropist, died last Tuesday in New York City. He was 68. The cause was a stroke, according to his wife, Jeanette W. Loeb. At the time of his death, Mr. Loeb, a lifelong New Yorker, was managing director of Neuberger Berman, an
 Dr. Robert F. Bacher, a nuclear physicist and one of the leaders of the Manhattan Project, died on Thursday at a retirement home in Montecito, Calif. He was 99. His death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had been a professor and provost. In 1
 Terry Melcher, a record producer who created hits with the Beach Boys and the Byrds, died on Friday in Beverly Hills after a long battle with cancer, his publicist, Linda Dozoretz, said Saturday. He was 62. The son of the actress and singer Doris Day and her first husband, the tromb
 Walter Mintz, an investor who was co-founder of one of the country's first hedge funds and later promoted free-market approaches to education and city governance, died Nov. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was neuroendocrine cancer, said his wife, Sandra. Wh
 Ancel Keys, the Minnesota physiologist who put saturated fat on the map as a major cause of heart disease and was the first scientist to champion the health value of a Mediterranean-style diet, died on Saturday in Minneapolis. He was 100 and had remained intellectually active through his 97
 Dr. John R. Vane, a British pharmacologist who shared a Nobel Prize for clarifying how aspirin works and helping to expand its use, died on Friday in Farnborough, England, the University of London reported. He was 77 and had been in failing health since he underwent heart surgery two years 
 COLEMAN--Cy. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the renowned American composer and pianist Cy Coleman, on November 18, 2004 in New York City at the age of 75. Mr. Coleman was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist famil
 COOMBE--Philip. Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York notes with sorrow the death of Philip Coombe, a life member and past President of this Society. Mr. Coombe was a member since 1946 and he served with devotion on the Board and held many other vital committee positions. Our hear
 CRONE--Harold Arthur. Died November 22 in Boca Raton, Florida. He was born January 2, 1915 in New York and was a fourth generation New Yorker. Mr. Crone was a proud US Navy combat veteran of World War II. He had a distinguished career in retailing including serving as President of the Hecht
 EDELMAN--Isidore S., M.D. On November 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Loving father of Arthur and Joseph Edelman, Susan Edelman Bleckner and Ann Korchin, stepfather to Tina Springer - Miller. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. Service Wednesday 10 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76t
 EIDELSON--Joseph. The entire family of the East Midwood Jewish Center mourns the passing of its beloved Cantor Emeritus who for over four decades chanted the liturgy with unique dignity, spirituality, fervor and grace. His musical talents were exceeded only by his kindness and compassion as
 FASS--Stanley K. Great man, kind, generous, always fun to be with. Stan showed us a world of experiences we only dreamed about. We will miss him terribly. The Kirwins       
 GRAY--Arthur A., M.D. The staff and physicians of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System and Forest Hills Hospital are greatly saddened by the passing of Arthur A. Gray, M.D., the senior vice president and chief of staff at Forest Hills Hospital. Dr. Gray was a trusted physi
 HUGHES--James E., of Stony Brook, N.Y., born May 1913 in Clayton, Missouri, son of Samuel Wheeler Hughes and Emma Eugenia Berry Hughes, passed away November 21, 2004. Associate and Partner of Coudert Brothers, an international law firm, from 1935-1985. Member of its Management and Executive
 KAHN--R. T. (Robert). 71, on November 18, 2004. Renowned international photojournalist known for his storytelling. Survived by wife Bettina and daughter Elizabeth. We will miss his sense of humor.       
 MEGGITT--Mervyn. Students and colleagues mourn the death of Dr. Mervyn Meggitt, Distinguished Professor and Professor Emeritus at Queens College and the Graduate Center, City University of New York. From 1953 to 1979 Dr Meggitt carried out pioneering anthropological research in Central Aust
 OSTROVE--Paul Stuart. We sadly mourn the death of our beloved husband, father and friend, who died on November 21, 2004, at the age of 73 after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Paul will be remembered as warmhearted, generous and outgoing. He made everyone feel comfortable and welco
 SLOBOD--Irving, 92. Passed away Saturday. In 1934 he founded the company Chain Store Guide. Several years later he was approached by Chain Store Age to join them in what was to become an international company. He enjoyed golf and was a generous contributor to many charitable organizations. 
 VANE--Sir John, FRS. The Fellows of the Biotechnology Study Center, NYU School of Medicine, mourn the death on Friday, November 19th of Sir John Vane, D.Phil., FRS in Farnborough, Kent, UK. Sir John, a founding Fellow of our Center, was most recently founding director of the prestigious Wil
 WINDERBAUM--Harold. November 21, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Harriet. Loving father of Michael (Rae) and Larry (Helene), Cherished grandfather of Anna (Gary), Nomi (Jim), Elise and Eli. Adoring greatgrandfather of Vera, Zachary and Ezra. Dearest son, brother, uncle and friend. 92 year
 Peter W. Cox, publisher, editor and co-founder of Maine Times, a feisty alternative weekly newspaper whose investigations into environmental and child welfare issues often helped lead to state action, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Georgetown, Me. He was 67. The cause was esophageal
 Corlies Smith, a New York book editor who in a 50-year career published an all-star list of writers, from Muriel Spark and Jimmy Breslin to William Trevor and Calvin Trillin, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Sheila. Mr. Smith, w
 Martin Malia, a historian of Soviet Communism who persistently challenged the prevailing notion of that system's durability, died last Friday in a convalescent home in Oakland, Calif. He was 80 years old. The cause was pneumonia, said a statement from the University of California at
 COLEMAN--Cy. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the renowned American composer and pianist Cy Coleman, on November 18, 2004 in New York City at the age of 75. Mr. Coleman was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist famil
 EIDELSON--Hazzan Joseph. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a revered colleague. A brilliant cantor he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of East Midwood Jewish Center, Brooklyn, N.Y. for half a century. We extend our sympathy to his family. May his memory ab
 FASS--Stanley K. Great man, kind, generous, always fun to be with. Stan showed us a world of experiences we only dreamed about. We will miss him terribly. The Kirwins       
 GELB--Stanley I. died November 22, 2004. Born in the Bronx, NY in 1929 he is survived by his wife of 45 years Shirley: sons Ronald and Gary; daughter-in-law Angela and grand-daughter Sabina. He worked as a linotype operator for The New York Times for 30 years and fought in the Korean War. H
 GRAY--Dr. Arthur. Those of us at HIP Health Plan of New York who knew Dr. Arthur Gray are deeply saddened by his passing. When we think about Dr. Gray and the time we spent with him, both as a colleague and friend, a true testimonial is the celebration of his life. He was a gentleman and a 
 HUGHES--James E., of Stony Brook, N.Y., born May 1913 in Clayton, Missouri, son of Samuel Wheeler Hughes and Emma Eugenia Berry Hughes, passed away November 21, 2004. Associate and Partner of Coudert Brothers, an international law firm, from 1935-1985. Member of its Management and Executive
 KRULL--Hyman. Of Boynton Beach, FL. and Englewood, N.J. on November 22, 2004. Born on September 8, 1916 in Bayonne, N.J. Loving brother, husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Survived by his caring wife of 64 years, Sylvia, daughter Elise Herz, sons Arthur, Albert and David, g
 LEVINE--Irving H. Congregation Rodeph Sholom is deeply saddened by the death of Irving H. Levine. Irving was a devoted husband to Lillian and beloved father of Robert N. Levine, our Senior Rabbi, and Scott and Sheree Levine. He is also survived by his daughters-in-law, Gina Stahl Levine and
 OSTROVE--Paul S. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Paul Ostrove. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Estelle, and their family. Howard S. Jacobs, President Sandra J. Ash, Secretary OSTROVE--Paul. We will miss you so very
 SILBERT--Gerald, age 82. With great sadness but knowing he is at peace, the family of Gerald Silbert announce his passing on November 22, 2004 during his final battle with Alzheimer's disease. Loving and devoted husband to Ramie (nee Jasper) for over 60 years, adoring and loving father of T
 SLOBOD--Irving, 92. Passed away Saturday, November 20, 2004. In 1934 he founded the company Chain Store Guide. Several years later he was approached by Chain Store Age to join them in what was to become an international company. He enjoyed golf and was a generous contributor to many charita
 SMITH--Cork. This aristocrat of the sentence influenced, suggested, and even forced a manuscript into the books that came into the hands and minds of so many. He loved his family and good English. He is such a loss to my family also. Jimmy Breslin       
 WHITNEY--Gifford Cochran, 54. Sailor, artist, craftsman; beloved father of Harry Payne Whitney III, husband of Francine Douwes Whitney and dear son of Alexandra Ewing Whitney and the late Harry Payne Whitney, died suddenly on Friday, November 19, 2004. He is also survived by his brother Cor
 Paul Stuart Ostrove, the executive vice president who suavely presided over the selling floor of the Madison Avenue clothing store that was named for him, died on Nov. 21 at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was lymphoma, said Jack Freedman, marketing manager for Paul St
 Rafael Eitan, a former Israeli Army chief of staff and government minister who was reprimanded after Lebanese Christian allies of Israel massacred Palestinian refugees in 1982, drowned on Tuesday after being swept into stormy seas. He was 75. Mr. Eitan was a war hero whom Prime Mini
 Ellsworth Van Graafeiland, a senior judge and a longtime conservative mainstay on the federal appeals bench in New York, died last Saturday in Rochester. He was 89 and lived in Rochester. His death was announced in Manhattan by Chief Judge John M. Walker Jr. of the United States Cou
 Joseph J. Sisco, a hard-charging senior diplomat who helped forge America's Middle East policy in the 1960's and 70's and later became president of American University here, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 85. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family s
 Noel Perrin, a widely read scholar, essayist and critic whose work reveled in the deep, crystalline pleasure of ordinary experience, died on Sunday at his home in Thetford Center, Vt. He was 77. Mr. Perrin, who had been ill for some time with Shy-Drager syndrome, a degenerative neur
 CLEMENTS--Roy. The Officers, Trustees, and members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Roy Clements, our beloved past-President, and devoted servant of the Jewish community both here and in Israel. Roy's selfless and passionate efforts as President of our synagogue, United 
 COLEMAN--Cy. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the renowned American composer and pianist Cy Coleman, on November 18, 2004 in New York City at the age of 75. Mr. Coleman was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist famil
 HUGHES--James E., of Stony Brook, N.Y., born May 1913 in Clayton, Missouri, son of Samuel Wheeler Hughes and Emma Eugenia Berry Hughes, passed away November 21, 2004. Associate and Partner of Coudert Brothers, an international law firm, from 1935-1985. Member of its Management and Executive
 KRULL--Hyman. Of Boynton Beach, FL. and Englewood, N.J. on November 22, 2004. Born on September 8, 1916 in Bayonne, N.J. Loving brother, husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Survived by his caring wife of 64 years, Sylvia, daughter Elise Herz, sons Arthur, Albert and David, g
 MANDEL--Marvin. Died November 24, 2004. Survived by Pearl, beloved wife of 61 years. Devoted father of Helaine, Joan, Robert. Adored grandfather of Kirstin and Zachary; Anna, John and Eve; and Sophie. Born in Youngstown, Ohio, 1920. Resident of Short Hills, New Jersey since 1961. Brooklyn C
 QUINN--Harold P. ''Harry''. Former FBI Special Agent and V.P. for Risk Management at Irving Trust, NYC died November 22 in St. Petersburg, FL where he moved in 1991. On-line memorial and guest book at www.brettfuneralhome.net       
 RELKIN--Donald B. On November 23, 2004 at age 74. Beloved husband of Dina, loving father of David Relkin and wife Debra, Leslie Drucker and husband Mitchell Drucker, and Lara Turner. Adoring and adored grandfather of Avrohom, Rivka, Yaakov, Shua, Sara Dina Relkin, Samantha, Jessica and Dani
 SILBERT--Gerald, age 82. With great sadness but knowing he is at peace, the family of Gerald Silbert announce his passing on November 22, 2004 during his final battle with Alzheimer's disease. Loving and devoted husband to Ramie (nee Jasper) for over 60 years, adoring and loving father of T
 Charles DeCarlo, an I.B.M. executive who became president of Sarah Lawrence College and led an overhaul of its finances and renovation of its campus, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his daughter Tessa DeCarlo said. Dr. DeCarlo, wh
 Langdon Gilkey, a prominent Protestant theologian who argued for a rational, even satisfying, coexistence between science and faith in the modern, secular age, died on Nov. 19 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85. The cause was meningitis, according to the University of Chicago, where 
 Larry Brown, a writer whose spare stories bluntly conveyed the painful hope of the rural poor, died on Wednesday at his home near Oxford, Miss. He was 53. The coroner of Lafayette County, Miss., told The Associated Press that the cause had not been officially determined. But a spoke
 BIELER--Julia on November 25. Ever joyful, bright and beloved. Loving wife of the late Ira Bieler, loving mother of the late Robin Lambert (z''l), kind mother-in-law of Robin's husband Tom, loving grandmother of David Lambert and his wife Miriam, joyfully fulfilled great-grandmother of four
 CLEMENTS--Roy. The Zionist arm of the Conservative Movement mourns the passing of Roy Clements, President of MERCAZ USA from 1993-98 and current President of MERCAZ Olami since 1997. During his many years of dedicated service to our organization, he demonstrated a firm commitment to Zionism
 FINE--Jack W. February 22, 1914-November 23, 2004 in Boynton Beach. Most recently of Stuart, Florida, formerly of East Meadow, LI and New York City. Predeceased by wives Helen Letica and Helen Tuck and brothers Jules and Dr. Albert Fine. Survived by first wife Fannie Epstein, daughters Susa
 HUGHES--James E., of Stony Brook, N.Y., born May 1913 in Clayton, Missouri, son of Samuel Wheeler Hughes and Emma Eugenia Berry Hughes, passed away November 21, 2004. Associate and Partner of Coudert Brothers, an international law firm, from 1935-1985. Member of its Management and Executive
 JORDAN--Dr. Louis H., PhD., former Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Business, Fordham University passed away on November 23, 2004 at the Eddy-Ford Nursing Home in Cohoes, N.Y. He was 82 and preceded by his wife of 40 years, Carolyn Maureen Jordan. Dr. Jordan was born in Owassa, Alab
 KANE--Dr. Jasper Herbert. Former Director of Research at Pfizer, brother of Sister Evelyn Kane, RSCJ, brother of the late Father Herbert Kane, SJ, and close friend and benefactor of the New York Province Jesuits died November 16, 2004, in Delray Beach, FL, at the age of 101. Dr. Kane's achi
 RIVLIN--Moshe. A true Zionist and a great friend. We will miss him. Michael, Jack and Paul       
 ROZMAN--Joseph, 90, November 24, 2004, in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 64 years of Bunny (deceased), cherished father of Carol (Stephen) and Barry (deceased), honored fatherin-law of Marjorie, proud grandfather of Deborah, Jonathan, Aliza, Avi, and Dani. A resident of Woodmere, NY,
 Celso Furtado, Brazil's most influential economist during the 20th century and an important theorist of methods of spurring economic growth in developing countries, died Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 84. His death was announced by Aloizio Mercadante, a senator of the governing 
 Gene Greif, whose witty collage and montage album-cover illustrations for CBS Records helped popularize the retro style of graphic design in the 1980's, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was complications from hepatitis C, which he contracted from a blood transfusi
 Otis Dudley Duncan, a social scientist who used statistical tools and models to show sociological trends and later helped determine that education played a greater role than social status in determining a boy's future success, died on Nov. 16 in a hospice in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 82.
 ADLER--Kurt S., on November 25, 2004 at age 83. Founder of Kurt S. Adler, Inc. Beloved husband of Marianne and the late Beatrice. Loving father of Howard, Clifford and Richard Adler and Karen Kaplin, and father-in-law of Nancy, Tina, Maria and Peter. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie, Mich
 HOWARD -- Reese Evans, ''Old Dad'', died on Tuesday, November 16, 2004. Husband, father of three, grandfather, friend, huntsman, horseman, chef, delighted all with his humor, wit and style. He will be sorely missed by all but most especially by his wife, Jean Hiscoe Howard, his three childr
 LAUB--Samuel. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Samuel Laub. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Muriel and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 ROZMAN--Joseph, 90, November 24, 2004, in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 64 years of Bunny (deceased), cherished father of Carol (Stephen) and Barry (deceased), honored fatherin-law of Marjorie, proud grandfather of Deborah, Jonathan, Aliza, Avi, and Dani. A resident of Woodmere, NY,
 SCHWARTZ--Seymour G., 86, of Plainview, NY died at home Wednesday, November 24, 2004. His beloved wife Charlotte, daughter Barbara Schwartz Glicksman with husband Steven Glicksman, son Frederic Schwartz with Tracey Hummer and cherished granddaughters Meryl and Rachel Glicksman were by his s
 STARK--Morton. On November 24, 2004 in his 88th year. Dear companion. Loving uncle. Writer. Poet. Scholar. Teacher. Swimmer. Role model. Morty lived life to the fullest and made the lives of those around him fuller for knowing him. ''I will take my leave without any regrets;/A gambler would
 WACHTLER--Morton. November 26, 2004. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Jay (Robin), Jill (Rick) and James (Ellen). Devoted brother of Sol (Joan). Cherished grandfather of Jeff, Andrew, Hilary, Jared and Josh. We loved him more than words can say. Service Sunday, November 28 1:30O
 Murray Schumach, a reporter who harvested rich stories from New York's neighborhoods and whose 48-year career at The New York Times also took him from the Orient to Hollywood, from the back rooms of City Hall to the gem-cutting sanctums of the diamond district, died yesterday He was
 ADLER--Kurt S., on November 25, 2004 at age 83. Founder of Kurt S. Adler, Inc. Beloved husband of Marianne and the late Beatrice. Loving father of Howard, Clifford and Richard Adler and Karen Kaplin, and father-in-law of Nancy, Tina, Maria and Peter. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie, Mich
 APPLEBAUM -- Robert W. (Rob). Of New York and Easthampton died on November 25th, 2004 at 52. Father to Theo, 2, and Riley, 4 months. Husband to Lei, son of Eleanor Applebaum and the late Herbert Applebaum, brother to Janet and Walter Drucker. He is also survived by a loving, extended family
 DeCARLO -- Charles. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the passing of its president emeritus, Charles DeCarlo, who served from 1969 to 1981. We are indebted to Charles who brought his financial and administrative acumen to transform the face of the campus and revitalize the College's financial u
 DENIS--Irwin. The Board of Directors of the Martha Hill Dance Fund mourns the passing of its founding president on November 24, 2004, whose devotion to Martha Hill and the field of dance will continue to inspire. Donations in his memory may be sent to the Martha Hill Dance Fund, 136 East 76
 FEMAN--Dr. Marvin K. Musician, educator, 85, of Middletown, NY, died November 26, 2004. A graduate of Juilliard and Columbia, he was founding Chairman of the Music Department at Orange County Community College in Middletown, NY. Until recently he played trumpet in three bands and taught Eld
 FINE--Jack W. February 22, 1914-November 23, 2004 in Boynton Beach. Most recently of Stuart, Florida, formerly of East Meadow, LI and New York City. Predeceased by wives Helen Letica and Helen Tuck and brothers Jules and Dr. Albert Fine. Survived by first wife Fannie Epstein, daughters Susa
 FRIEDMAN--Dr. Gerald J. Beloved husband of Dorothy, died peacefully at home on Thursday, November 25, at the age of 91. Son of the late Abraham and Flora, and brother of the late Samuel J. and Estelle Gervis. He received his BS at NYU College of Arts and Sciences, and his MD from NYU School
 HINDERSTEIN--Howard on November 24, 2004 at home. Beloved husband of the late Beverly. Devoted father of the late Sherry and cherished father of Debbie Fratkin. Proud and loving poppa of grandsons Jeremy and Rory, and the late granddaughter Alyse. Cherished brother of Lee and Toby Hinderste
 HOWARD -- Reese Evans, ''Old Dad'', died on Tuesday, November 16, 2004. Husband, father of three, grandfather, friend, huntsman, horseman, chef, delighted all with his humor, wit and style. He will be sorely missed by all but most especially by his wife, Jean Hiscoe Howard, his three childr
 KRUPENYE--Ira. Died November 25, age 82. Adored husband of Grace, his wife of 56 years, beloved father of Lucy, Peter and his daughterin-law Sandy, loving grandfather of Christopher, Ben and Ann, cherished by all who knew him. Wonderful violinist who played with Orchestre Symphonique de Mon
 LEVINE--Carl. On November 26, 2004. Beloved partner of David Fink, devoted father of Deborah Levine and Caren Stanley, father-in-law of Kenneth Stanley, loving grandfather of Ashley and Adam Stanley, caring brother of Mark Levin and the late Stanley Levine, adored son of the late Florence a
 MYERS--Nathaniel Charles, Jr. died Thursday, November 25, 2004 in Asheville, NC. Born in Manhattan in 1928 he was a longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. He is survived by Frances Goldberg Myers, his wife of fifty-two years, daughter Pamela, and sons Kenneth and Nathaniel III. A kind and gent
 PHILLIPS--Lynn, Jr., my dad, died Saturday, November 13th. Red Smith of the NY Herald Tribune described dad as ''A pleasant man, cheerfully friendly, handsomely and quietly dressed, impeccably scrubbed and barbered.'' He was that and much more. A loving husband and father, he and my mom Mar
 SCHWARTZ--Seymour G., 86, of Plainview, NY died at home Wednesday, November 24, 2004. His beloved wife Charlotte, daughter Barbara Schwartz Glicksman with husband Steven Glicksman, son Frederic Schwartz with Tracey Hummer and cherished granddaughters Meryl and Rachel Glicksman were by his s
 SCIALO--Joseph Vincent. November 20, 2004 at age 69. Beloved Domestic Partner of Charlie Rice. Adoring brother of Caroline Mazza & Vincenza Perino. Born July 2, 1935, he grew up in New York's Little Italy. In 1970 he purchased a small restaurant in Cherry Grove, Fire Island where he found h
 STARK--Morton. On November 24, 2004 in his 88th year. Dear companion. Loving uncle. Writer. Poet. Scholar. Teacher. Swimmer. Role model. Morty lived life to the fullest and made the lives of those around him fuller for knowing him. ''I will take my leave without any regrets;/A gambler would
 WACHTLER--Morton. November 26, 2004. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Jay (Robin), Jill (Rick) and James (Ellen). Devoted brother of Sol (Joan). Cherished grandfather of Jeff, Andrew, Hilary, Jared and Josh. We loved him more than words can say. Service Sunday, November 28 1:30O
 ZOLENGE--Max, 90, of Tamarac, Florida, passed away on November 23, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Fay, his daughter Sheila, his grandchildren Jassin, Danielle and Nicole, and his son-in-law Joel. We will all miss him dearly.       
 DOMB-Ruben 9/14/28-11/28/84 ''Even though he is gone, he lives on through you...'' Your daughter, Clarita       
 The Rev. Billy James Hargis, a fiery evangelist and anticommunist preacher who founded the Christian Crusade and reached millions in an international ministry that used radio, television, books, pamphlets and personal appearances, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 79
 John Parr Miller, an early animator for Walt Disney whose later art adorned best-selling children's books, including those in the popular Little Golden Books series, died on Oct. 29 on Long Island. He was 91 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y. His death was announced by his family.        
 Murray Schumach, a reporter who harvested rich stories from New York's neighborhoods and whose 48-year career at The New York Times also took him from the Orient to Hollywood, from the back rooms of City Hall to the gem-cutting sanctums of the diamond district, died on Saturday. He 
 ASSADI -- Mohammad. Of NYC, November 23, 2004. Beloved father, grandfather, husband and friend. He was a loving, compassionate and honorable man. His loving kindness to all was legendary. We will miss him dearly. Survived by his wife Parvin, sons, Jahanshah and Jahanyar, daughter Sholeh, gr
 BEDELL--Robert ''Bobby.'' Of St. Augustine, FL, and formerly of Long Beach, NY, November 27, 2004. Devoted loving son of Hannah. Beloved brother and brother-inlaw of Jack and Susan Bedell. Cherished uncle of Elissa and Andrew Silverman and Joanna Bedell. Brother of Gary. Joining his sweet l
 CHILTON--Dr. Neal W., D.D.S. 83, of Lawrenceville, NJ, a dentist who specialized in periodontics and endodontics, died on November 27, 2004. In addition to a successful dental practice, he held faculty positions at the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia University and Hebrew University in
 FRIEDMAN--Dr. Gerald J. Beloved husband of Dorothy, died peacefully at home on Thursday, November 25, at the age of 91. Son of the late Abraham and Flora, and brother of the late Samuel J. and Estelle Gervis. He received his BS at NYU College of Arts and Sciences, and his MD from NYU School
 GOODMAN--Dorothy S. On November 27, 2004, at age 78. Beloved husband of Richard. Loving mother of Annie and John. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, David and Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm, with service Tuesday, 1:30 pm.
 GREENSPAN--Janet. 56, of Ardsley, NY, on November 28, 2004. Devoted wife of Richard. Beloved mother of Russell and his wife Rachel Izes, Lisa. Loving sister of Barbara and Jack. Services will be 1 pm, Monday, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY. Donations in Janet
 JACOB--Fr. William Lawrence. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, February 17, 1920, passed away in NYC on November 26, 2004. Beloved son of the late Hubert and Anna. Loving brother of Jack, Peggy Griffith, Joan Megill and Adele Gordon. Also survived by many nieces and nephews and great-nieces and great
 KORSOWER -- Jason Scott. Age 29, of Atlanta and Washington, D.C., died November 26, 2004. Jason was a graduate of Episcopal High School in Alexandria, VA and a graduate of Colgate University, where he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity. He was enrolled in Syracuse University Law Sch
 LEVINE--Carl. On November 26, 2004. Beloved partner of David Fink, devoted father of Deborah Levine and Caren Stanley, father-in-law of Kenneth Stanley, loving grandfather of Ashley and Adam Stanley, caring brother of Mark Levin and the late Stanley Levine, adored son of the late Florence a
 ROVNER--Herbert A. Died November 25, 2004, age 74. Survived by his sister Natalie Konner and brother-in-law Mel. Services today at 11 a.m. at Beth Abraham Memorial Chapel, 199 Bleecker Street, NY. He was loved by all who knew him.       
 SCHULMAN -- Harold L. Passed away suddenly at home, in NYC, on Friday, November 26. He is deeply mourned by his beloved wife, whom he adored, Martha (nee Schier), and sons Michael and Robert. He is affectionately remembered by his friends and by his colleagues in the men's wear industry. Hi
 SNOW--Robert M. Died on November 27, 2004, at age 74. Beloved husband of Rosemary. Loving father (with Judith Schwamm Snow) of Erica Arbron, David and Selena Snow, Harvey-Skip Snow and Linda and Barrett Gross. Proud grandfather of Travis and Eric Snow, Alyson and Jake Arbron, Peter and Emil
 VEIT--Ivan. 96. Daughter Lenore Gale, six grandchildren and families were graced by his gentle dignity and thoughtfulness, dry wit, literate observations, generous and steadfast spirit and passionate devotion to extended families and enduring friendships. Contributions to NY Times Neediest 
 WACHTLER -- Morton. He was always concerned with the needs of others. Most of those needs were filled with his love and compassion, a need which only he could fill and one which will not diminish with time. We were blessed by having and loving him as a brother, and will always be grateful f
 Tom Haller, an All-Star catcher who played for the San Francisco Giants, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Detroit Tigers in a 12-year major league baseball career and was later the Giants' general manager, died Friday in Los Angeles. He was 67. His death was announced by the Giants, 
 Ivan Veit, a former executive vice president of The New York Times Company who helped usher the newspaper's circulation and promotion departments into the modern era, died on Saturday in Beacon, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Veit's daughter, Lenore Gale, reported the death
 Leroy F. Aarons, a reporter and newspaper executive who became the founder and first president of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, died Sunday at a hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 70. He was in the hospital for treatment of bladder cancer when his heart fa
 BURNS--Denis H. Suddenly on November 27, 2004. Beloved husband of Virginia Hacket Burns. Devoted father of Ward and Hugh (Molly). Brother of Priscilla Cunningham and Frances Clough. Proud graduate of Choate School, Princeton University Class of 1955 and Harvard University Class of 1961. Den
 FRIEDMAN--Gerald J. The faculty, staff, and students of New York University School of Medicine express their deep regret and sadness on the death of our friend and colleague Gerald J. Friedman, M.D. He graduated from NYU School of Medicine in 1937 and was appointed to the Faculty in 1938, r
 GOLDBLATT--Aaron, DDS, November 27, beloved husband of the late Florence (nee Hoffman) for 53 years; caring father to Susan Wolk (Larry) and Michael Goldblatt (Lana); devoted grandfather to Adam and Daniel Wolk, dear brother of Jack (Ethel) Goldblatt & Bea Goldblatt; resided and practiced d
 JACOB--Fr. William Lawrence. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, February 17, 1920, passed away in NYC on November 26, 2004. Beloved son of the late Hubert and Anna. Loving brother of Jack, Peggy Griffith, Joan Megill and Adele Gordon. Also survived by many nieces and nephews and great-nieces and great
 JERVIS -- Herman. Lawyer and educator. Died peacefully November 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94 years old. Predeceased by his first wife Dorothy Bing and his second wife Eleanor Dudley. Beloved father of Steven and Robert, father-in-law of Susan & Kathe, grandfather of Alexa Jervis, 
 MEYERSON--Charles. To the Zoo Zoo Cracker of all times ...you were a big part of my life. I will never forget you. Jane and I extend our sympathy on the loss of this great man to his wife Pam, his children Donna, Larry, Randy, Scottie, Missy, Pam Jr., Jeff and Donna Marie, and to his sons-i
 MURPHY--Alfred W., M.D., S.T.D. of White Plains. Died November 28, 2004. He was born October 20, 1921 in the Bronx to the late Mary (Frawley) & Edward Murphy. He received a B.S. from Manhattan College, graduated from Long Island College of Medicine in 1946 and received a doctorate of Sacred
 REINSBERG -- Susie. The Board of Directors and Staff of the JCC of Mid-Westchester mourn the loss of Susie Reinsberg, wife of long time Board Member and benefactor Kurt Reinsberg. We extend our deepest sympathies to Kurt and his entire family.       
 RIVLIN--Moshe. Ronald S. Lauder, Russell F. Robinson and the Jewish National Fund Family mourn the passing of Moshe Rivlin, KKL/JNF World Chairman from 1976 to 1997. Mr. Rivlin was called the King of the Forest. A seventh generation Israeli, he was a man of vision and one of Israel's true p
 ROSENZWEIG--Benjamin. The Board of Governors and Membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Benjamin Rosenzweig, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Mildred and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy   
 SMITH--Alexander B. The John Jay College of Criminal Justice mourns the loss of Professor Emeritus Alexander B. Smith, J.D., Ph.D. A member of the original faculty, first Dean of Studies and first Chair of the Division of Social Sciences, he advised Presidential and Congressional Commission
 SNOW--Robert M. Died on November 27, 2004, at age 74. Beloved husband of Rosemary. Loving father (with Judith Schwamm Snow) of Erica Arbron, David and Selena Snow, Harvey-Skip Snow and Linda and Barrett Gross. Proud grandfather of Travis and Eric Snow, Alyson and Jake Arbron, Peter and Emil
 STEINBERGER--David, age 46, on November 28, 2004. Beloved husband of Elissa. Adored and devoted father of Samantha and Erika. Caring son of Alexander and the late Edna. Brother of Julie. Cherished son-in-law of Muriel and Irving Goldman. Dear brother-in-law of Ellen and Brian Frasco. Loving
 TAHANEY--James L., Msgr., a priest of the Diocese of Brooklyn, who touched the lives of many through his priestly ministry, died of complications of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) on November 28, 2004 at Ozanam Hall Nursing Home. Msgr. Tahaney grew up in St. Teresa Parish, Woodside, N
 TESSER--Charles, 84, November 28, 2004. A gentle man among men who loved and inspired love. 32 years of service at NBC. WWII Signal Corps photographer. Loved completely by his wife Doris; children Lew & Marjorie, Stu & Jan, Bonnie & Rich; cherished grandchildren Jason, Shauna, Melissa, Ben,
 THOMPSON--Timothy L., an investment strategist, died Saturday. A graduate of Yale College and The Wharton School, he is survived by his wife, Linda Killian, his son, Nicholas, two sisters, Julie and Ardith, and his father Floyd. Please contact www.westchesterfuneralhome.com (914) 337-4585. 
 Ronald L. Plesser, a privacy lawyer who helped ease access to government records and shape policy on access to personal e-mail messages, customer databases and other innovations of the electronic age, died on Nov. 18 at Washington Dulles International Airport. He was 59 and lived in Washing
