 Glenn Ford, a laconic, soft-spoken actor whose leading roles in westerns, melodramas and romantic films made his name a familiar one on movie-house marquees from the early 1940's through the 60's, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 90. Paramedics called to the home 
 Leonard W. Levy, an exacting, dogged, prolific and combative constitutional historian whose work was frequently cited by the United States Supreme Court and won him a Pulitzer Prize, died on Aug. 24 in Ashland, Ore. He was 83. His death followed years of poor health and a recent str
 Mel A. Sachs, for decades a colorful fixture of the New York City courts, who was known not only for his famous clients but also for his trademark bow ties, grandiose trial oratory and penchant for performing magic tricks before juries, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause w
 FERKIN--Jay on August 29. 2006. Devoted husband of the late Helene and the late Jacqueline. Loving father of Susan Ellen Berkowitz with Kenneth Forcino and Linda Ferkin with her husband Harvey Berman. Cherished stepfather of Jeffrey Friedman with his wife Lily Safani and Scott Friedman with
 HAGENDORF--Scott. Died suddenly on August 29, 2006 at age 48. Beloved son of Samuel and the late Sylvia, cherished brother of Sheryl and Sonny, adored brotherin-law of Barry and Kathy, devoted uncle to Stephanie (Michael), Jon, Colin and Emma, doting great-uncle to Jordan, loving companion 
 KESSMAN--Neal F. Devoted son of the late Morris and Ann Kessman; beloved life partner of Rabbi Ken Brickman; cherished brother of Roberta Kessman and Judith Weiss; loving uncle of Matthew Koven, Stacy Mausser and David Mausser; greatuncle of Julia and Lauren. Services Friday (today) 11AM ''
 SACHS--Mel A. Died August 30, 2006. Survived by wife Grace; children Jaclyn and Harrison; brother Joel Sachs. Interment private. Memorial service Sunday, September 3, 2006, noon, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. $(6$)SACHS--Mel. His friendship brightened our lives. We will
 SILVER--Helen. The Sixteenth Street Synagogue records with sorrow the passing of the mother of our esteemed member, Dr. William Silver, and extends our heartfelt condolences to him and his family.       
 WHITNEY--Dr. Harold H., renowned podiatrist, passed away on Thursday morning, August 31, 2006. He was 86 years old. He will be sorely missed by family, friends and endearing patients, some of whom represent four generations of loyal clients. Dr. Whitney truly loved his profession. He leaves
 MOGHTADERI--Homayoon. 63, on August 29, 2006. Lovingly mourned by sons, Hooman, Kamran, his mother Ghamar Taj, sisters Farideh and Farimah, brothers Daryoush and Bahram, and their spouses. His humor and love of life will be greatly missed by family and friends. Services private.       
 Rocco A. Petrone, who directed the countdown for launching the first mission to land astronauts on the Moon and later headed the entire Apollo program, died Aug. 24 at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 80. His death was confirmed by the Marshall Space Flight Center in 
 Hrishikesh Mukherjee, who produced and directed memorable and successful Hindi films in a career of more than five decades, died on Aug. 27 in Mumbai. He was 83. The cause was complications of kidney failure, his family said. Known to all of India as Hrishida, he made stars 
 FERKIN--Jay on August 29. 2006. Devoted husband of the late Helene and the late Jacqueline. Loving father of Susan Ellen Berkowitz with Kenneth Forcino and Linda Ferkin with her husband Harvey Berman. Cherished stepfather of Jeffrey Friedman with his wife Lily Safani and Scott Friedman with
 HOWE--Geoffrey R.The faculty, staff, students and alumni of the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University mourn the passing of Professor Geoffrey R. Howe, PhD distinguished leader in the field of epidemiology, on August 31st. Former Chair and Gelman Professor, Department of Epi
 SISTI--Anthony. The Trustees, the Women's Board and the staff of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to the family of their dear friend. Tony passed away on Thursday, August 31st after a long illness. As a Boys' Club of New York Alumnus, former Executive Staff member a
 WOHL--Bernard died peacefully on August 31st with his wife Beth, ''sister'' Deb and children, Michael and Carla, by his side. Bernie was a gentle giant who spent his life being a bully for social change. For more than 26 years he was executive director of Goddard Riverside Community Center.
 Roy Tobias, a ballet dancer known for his large repertory at the New York City Ballet and an internationally known teacher, died on Aug. 16 in Seoul, South Korea. He was 78. Mr. Tobias, who had had a chronic condition for 13 years that made it difficult for him to eat, died in the h
 Bernard J. Wohl, a relentless advocate for the poor, the homeless and the forgotten elderly of New York and for 26 years the leader of Goddard Riverside Community Center on the Upper West Side, one of the city's largest private social service agencies, died on Thursday at NewYork-Presbyteri
 Bob Mathias, who won the gold medal in the Olympic decathlon in 1948 at age 17, did it again four years later and went on to serve four terms in Congress, died yesterday at his home in Fresno, Calif. He was 75. The United States Olympic Committee announced his death. The cause was c
 ALBERT--Stanley N. On August 30, 2006; beloved husband of Jan Mann; loving father of Marina & Brandon Albert; cherished grandfather of Thomas and Alexandra; loving brother of Blanche Jaye & his extended family. He will be deeply missed by all who loved and admired him. Memorial service on T
 AUG--Charles. Age 68, died on September 1, 2006, after a valiant and noble bout with illness. Charlie, the store maven, was founder and former chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates which for many years was the leading real estate brokerage company specializing in retail store leasing. He was a
 BAILEY--Glenn W. Founder and former Chairman of Bairnco Corporation, died in Stamford CT, August 19. He was 81. A resident of Hobe Sound FL and Darien CT, he is survived by his wife Cornelia Tarrant Bailey. Cause of death was pancreatic cancer.       
 CARLSON--Michael E. Sr.,retired Vice President and Secretary of the Chase Manhattan Corporation died August 29th at home in Mamaroneck, NY. He was a US Navy Lieutenant during WWII and the Korean War. He is survived by his beloved wife Kathleen (Green), cherished sister Jean Daly, his childr
 FERKIN--Jay on August 29. 2006. Devoted husband of the late Helene and the late Jacqueline. Loving father of Susan Ellen Berkowitz with Kenneth Forcino and Linda Ferkin with her husband Harvey Berman. Cherished stepfather of Jeffrey Friedman with his wife Lily Safani and Scott Friedman with
 GOLDBERG--Samuel. TheHampton Synagogue mourns the passing of our cherished benefactor, Samuel Goldberg. To his beloved wife, Elinor, and to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. His memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres
 GRANT--Henry. 92, former Chief Law Assistant for Kings County. Died in Tucson. Beloved father, grandfather, and husband to the late Anne; he is lovingly mourned.       
 HOWARD--Morton J. Died August 29, 2006, at age 83. Cherished husband of 61 years to Lorraine, devoted father to Jonathan, Donna, and the late Richard. He lived in Huntington, NY then retired to Punta Gorda, FL. Donations may be made to Tidewell Hospice 941-923-5822       
 HOWE--Geoffrey R.The faculty, staff, students and alumni of the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University mourn the passing of Professor Geoffrey R. Howe, PhD distinguished leader in the field of epidemiology, on August 31st. Former Chair and Gelman Professor, Department of Epi
 KOZUBEI - David. Died peacefully in his sleep on August 26th, at his home in Manhattan. He created the concept for the original Borders bookstore, located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and founded the still running David's Books there. He was an accomplished writer and a prolific actor known for 
 LANGSAM--Ralph L., 81 onAugust 31, 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Devoted husband of Renee, loving father of Carol Lisbon ( Dr. Alan) of Dover, MA. and Diane Bernstein (Steven) of Chappaqua, NY, adored grandfather of Alison Bernstein-Bardill (Patrick), Karen Bernstein, Amy Lisbon and Emily
 MANOBLA--Morris, 84. Beloved husband of the late Gert. Father of Ellen and David, grandfather of Peter, Isaac and Wyatt. He will be missed, but remembered for his independent spirit and kind heart.       
 MITOFSKY--Warren J. On September 1, 2006. Beloved. His wife Mia, son Bryan, daughter Elisa, sister Lenore, grandchildren, Ryan, Kyle, Parker and Isabel, and niece, nephews and cousins loved him. Service Tuesday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 PARKER--William Howard, beloved father of Cody, son of David and Diane, brother of Pam, passed away on August 12, 2006 in Florida. Will was a talented musician, receiving his Masters from Julliard in 1978. He performed internationally with the Metropolitan Brass Quartet, the NY Philharmonic
 POST--Edward Everett. 94, on August 26, 2006, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor. Beloved husband and father. Last principal of Geo. B. Post & Sons, renowned NY architecture firm. Raised at Macculloch Hall, Morristown NJ; Harvard 1933; NYU 1941; WWII Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy; known for a
 ROWAN--A. James. Internationally recognized academician, researcher and specialist in the treatment of epilepsy, whose most recent work revolutionized the treatment of seizure disorders in the elderly, died of lung cancer on Sunday, August 27, 2006 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City, 
 WISE--Sidney, journalist, died peacefully at home on August 24, one day before his 90th birthday. Sent to Madrid in 1943, first as an Assistant Press Attache of the American Embassy and later correspondent for the Overseas News Organization and CBS, he was the first journalist to expose the
 WOHL--Bernard J. Strange to write an obit for someone who is alive. Bernie, you are here with us on the upper West Side where you were born and bred. You are here in all the programs and housing you created for the handicapped, the elderly, the homeless and the poor. The giant building you 
 MOGHTADERI--Homayoon. 63, on August 29, 2006. Lovingly mourned by sons, Hooman, Kamran, his mother Ghamar Taj, sisters Farideh and Farimah, brothers Daryoush and Bahram, and their spouses. His humor and love of life will be greatly missed by family and friends. Services private.       
 Warren J. Mitofsky, an innovator and standard-setter in the polling industry for four decades, died on Friday. He was 71. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, said his widow, Mia Mather. Kathleen A. Frankovic, his successor as director of surveys at CBS News, said yesterd
 Bob Mathias, who won the gold medal in the Olympic decathlon in 1948 at age 17, and again four years later, then later served four terms in Congress, died Saturday in Fresno, Calif. He was 75. The United States Olympic Committee announced his death. The cause was cancer, his brother
 Dewey Redman, an expansive and poetic tenor saxophonist and bandleader who had been at the aesthetic frontiers of jazz since the 1960's, died on Saturday in Brooklyn. He was 75 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver failure, said Velibor Pedevski, his brother-in-law. Wal
 Guy Gabaldon, a Marine private in World War II who used extraordinary grit and a smattering of Japanese phrases to capture more than 1,000 Japanese soldiers single-handedly in the battle for Saipan, died Thursday in Old Town, Fla. He was 80. The cause was heart disease, his son Guy 
 AUG--Charles. Age 68, died on September 1, 2006, after a valiant and noble bout with illness. Charlie, the store maven, was founder and former chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates which for many years was the leading real estate brokerage company specializing in retail store leasing. He was a
 COSTA--William F., born in 1920, and raised in Atlas, PA, died on August 31, 2006, after a long illness. He studied at the Juilliard School, New York City and received his B.S. and M.A. from Columbia University. Mr. Costa spent his professional career as a musician in New York City doing st
 GARNETT--William A. World famous aerial photographer William A. Garnett passed away at his home in Napa surrounded by family Saturday, August 26th. He was 89. Garnett is widely acknowledged to have defined aerial photography as an art form. Bill began his interest in photography at an early
 KHAGHAN--David. The family of Dr. and Mrs. Joel Hirsch wishes to express their profound sorrow at the untimely passing of David. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Charlene, children and family.       
 MITOFSKY--Warren J. On September 1, 2006. Beloved. His wife Mia, son Bryan, daughter Elisa, sister Lenore, grandchildren, Ryan, Kyle, Parker and Isabel, and niece, nephews and cousins loved him. Service Tuesday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 O'CONNOR--Bob. Mayor Bob O'Connor's exuberant love for his city, his unflagging energy and his magical charisma affected all of our lives. Words can't describe the void that has been left. Our love to Judy, Father Terry, Heidy, Corey and his entire family. We'll miss you, Bob. Amy and Ira M
 SHAUB--J. Leonard, age 89, passed away on September 2, 2006, at home. Beloved husband of Thelma for 66 years, loving father of Robin, Peter and Henry, devoted Poppy of Jake, Beth, Jonathan, Zach and Kyle. He served in WWII and was awarded the Medal of Valor. After earning his J.D. and L.L.M
 TEITELBAUM -- Herbert Ulysses. 87, on September 1, 2006, of Orangeburg, NY. Graduate of Cooper Union, registered architect and naval veteran. Beloved husband of the late Lucia Margaritte. Devoted father of Bradley and his wife Roberta, and Graham and his wife Aida. Dear brother of Gladys an
 Warren J. Mitofsky, an innovator and standard-setter in the polling industry for four decades, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, said his wife, Mia Mather. Kathleen A. Frankovic, his successor as director of surveys at CBS News, 
 John Ripley Forbes, a naturalist, conservationist and educator whose genius for persuading complete strangers to give him things, be they cold cash or gently used polar bears, helped him plant hundreds of nature museums for children in more than 30 states, died Aug. 26 in Atlanta. He was 93
 AUG--Charles. It was Charlie who gave me the opportunity to begin a second career. It was his encouragement that gave me the confidence to start again. Whatever success I may realize, it began with Charlie--and I will be forever grateful. To Jimmy, Louise, and all those he loved, I am truly
 COFFINAS -- Hon. Nicholas. Supreme Court Justice, J.H.O. Beloved husband of Euthalia. Devoted father of Maria Lazzaro, Eleni and Gigi Giannakouros. Beloved brother of Gustav, Esq. Loving grandfather, uncle and father-inlaw. Reposing at S. S. Constantine and Helen G.O. Cathedral, 64 Schermer
 LUTHER--Herbert G. Age 91 of Smithtown, NY, on August 16, 2006. Survived by a loved and loving family. He established and directed a large research facility for animal nutrition and health in Terre Haute, Indiana for Pfizer, then was Scientific Director of Agriculture for Pfizer Internation
 MANSBRIDGE--Ronald, 100. On September 1, 2006, peacefully in his home in Weston, Connecticut. Born 11 November 1905 in England, son of George Frederick Mansbridge, inventor of the Mansbridge electrical condenser, and Florence Quye Mansbridge. Educated at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, M
 POST--Edward Everett. 94, on August 26, 2006, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor. Beloved husband and father. Last principal of Geo. B. Post & Sons, renowned NY architecture firm. Raised at Macculloch Hall, Morristown NJ; Harvard 1933; NYU 1941; WWII Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy; known for a
 SHATKIN--Alfred, 87, of Great Neck, NY. On August 31st, 2006, in Santa Rosa, CA. Beloved and devoted husband of Toby. Cherished and loving father of David and Barbara, father-in-law of Paula and Andy, grandfather of Nina and her husband Yaniv, Lily, Jesse, Aaron, and Annalise, and great-gra
 SHAUB--J. Leonard, age 89, passed away on September 2, 2006, at home. Beloved husband of Thelma for 66 years, loving father of Robin, Peter and Henry, devoted Poppy of Jake, Beth, Jonathan, Zach and Kyle. He served in WWII and was awarded the Medal of Valor. After earning his J.D. and L.L.M
 WASSYNG -- Dr. Sydney. Passed away in Durban, South Africa on 4th September after a short illness. Deeply mourned by his wife Haley, brother Aubrey (Boston), and sister Evelyn (Johannesburg).       
 Steve Irwin, the khaki-clad wildlife stalker who won global fame with his televised death-defying crocodile stunts and whose booming voice made ''Crikey!'' in a ripe Australian accent an international catchword, was killed by a stingray yesterday while filming a documentary at the Great Bar
 AUG--Charles. The Principals and Brokers of the Lansco Corporation wish to express their deep sorrow at the passing of Charlie Aug. We will always remember Charlie's wit, innovations, leadership skills and special talents and friendship, both on a personal and professional level. Our condol
 BARBER--Bernard, 88, on August 20, 2006 in New York City. Married 50 years to his lifelong love, the late Elinor Gellert Barber. Beloved father to Chris Master, Leslie Bernard, Philip Barber and John Barber and father-in-law to George Master, John Barnard, Amy Stursberg and Staci Barber. He
 BRIGHT--Jackie (1919-2006). Performer, AGVA executive, and personal manager died peacefully August 28 at his home in Brentwood, CA. As a standup comedian Bright performed in the Catskills and Vaudeville houses across the US. His stage persona ''The Krazy Auctioneer,'' was a non-stop ad-libb
 GOLDEN--Julia Levien. Student, performer and teacher of Duncan Dance. Lover of art and music. Beloved mother of Elliot and his wife, Charlotte. Grandmother of Lindsay, Jessica, Abbey, Renny and Andrew. Services Friday, 9:45 A.M. at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Gre
 GOTTLIEB--Jerome. Jerry Gottlieb lived life with a joke for every occasion. Even while fighting brain cancer, he kept the people around him laughing. Jerry passed away quietly on Sunday, September 3. Facing his illness, he continued to live his life displaying quiet strength, grace, and hea
 HOWARD--Morton J. Died August 29, 2006, at age 83. Cherished husband of 61 years to Lorraine, devoted father to Jonathan, Donna, and the late Richard. He lived in Huntington, NY then retired to Punta Gorda, FL. Donations may be made to Tidewell Hospice 941-923-5822       
 MALTZMAN--Ethan Gabriel Isaac, of Lake Barrington, IL, formerly of Demarest, NJ, born September 7, 1994, died suddenly September 3, 2006 of complications of the leukemia for which he was being treated. Ethan was a joyful, funny boy who brought great streams of sunlight into the lives of his
 MAXON--Ralph, on September 5, 2006 in Boynton Beach, FL. Former longtime resident of Port Chester, NY. A Certified Public Accountant in New York City and Florida for 70 years, he was still a trusted financial advisor until his death. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 66 years,Yetta. Surviv
 SANDIFER--Jawn.The Noyac Golf Club mourns the passing of one of its members, Jawn Sandifer, and extends condolences to his family. Ted Ronick, President Richard M. Mathew, Secretary $(6$)SANDIFER--Jawn. We are saddened by the loss of our esteemed former colleague. Supreme Court Boar
 SCHANZ--Siegmund L. 83, of New York, NY on September 4, 2006. Beloved husband of Nina, loving father of Lydia Brock, and Ronald, father-inlaw of Sylvia Erdman, and devoted poppy of Matthew Brock. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him and whose lives he touched. Services Wednesday, 1
 Vladimir Griegorovich Tretchikoff, an exile from Siberia whose emotional depictions of wilting flowers, dancers and especially the daughter of a San Francisco Chinese merchant earned both global popularity and critics' scorn, died in Cape Town on Aug. 26. He was 92. His daughter, Mi
 Willi Ninja, known as the Grandfather of Vogue, a dance form that he helped move from the New York club scene of the 1980's to the concert stage, died on Saturday in Queens. He was 45. The cause was AIDS-related heart failure, said Archie Burnett, a close friend. Vogueing --
 Burt Goldblatt, a prolific designer of moody jazz LP album covers for artists like Herbie Mann, Billie Holiday, Carmen McRae and Charles Mingus, died on Aug. 30 in Boston. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Katherine Holzman Goldblatt. In the e
 Jawn A. Sandifer, a former New York State judge who as a young lawyer argued a civil rights case before the United States Supreme Court that served as a precedent for the landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 92. The death was confirmed 
 AUG--Charles. A great partner and friend. Charles Aug gave opportunity to an entire industry and helped build many careers. One of the greatest leaders and motivators in his field, he was a major contributor to New York's retail community. I am truly grateful for my association with you. To
 BEHAR--Hyman. '' Hal '' 80 of Delray Beach, FL passed away on September 4, 2006. Mr. Behar was born in NYC. He served as an apprentice composer and line-o-type operator at several newspapers in Vermont; Hudson, NY; and New York City. He worked in the newspaper industry for more than 40 year
 CAMPBELL--Donald Frank. Died, Wednesday, September 6, 2006 at his summer home in Bay Head, NJ. Mr. Campbell was born in Maplewood, NJ and resided in New York City and Bay Head. He graduated from Williams College and served in the United States Marine Corps. He was head trader at Weeden and 
 DONADONI--Charles, age 86, died September 5th, 2006. In loving memory of a man who flew kites at the beach and rode his bike in Central Park. He will be dearly missed by his family; Charles and Diana Donadoni, Susan and Arthur Zanko, and his four grandchildren Christopher and Danielle Donad
 HIRSCHHORN--David. The American Jewish Committee mourns with great sadness the passing of David Hirschhorn, one of our most devoted leaders and generous benefactors for more than half a century. David was an Honorary Vice President, member of our National Leadership Council and served with 
 KATZ--Abraham. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes with great sadness the passing of its longstanding patron and friend, Abraham J. Katz. Mr. Katz loved classical music, particularly the art of chamber music. He possessed a thorough knowledge of its composers, its repertoire, 
 KUPERBERG--Jeanne. The board of directors, staff, and members of Community Access extend their deepest sympathies to our long-time board member David and his children, Danielle and Rusty, on the loss of their wife and mother.       
 MCGETTIGAN--Edward Thomas, Sr. of Norwalk, CT on September 6, 2006. He was a founding partner, President and Chief Executive Officer of American Transit Insurance Company in Manhattan. Husband of Lorraine McGettigan; father of James, Edward, Susan Carroll and Joan McGettigan. Grandfather of
 MICHEL--George W., 83, passed away at the Hope Hospice House in Bonita Springs, Florida on August 30, 2006. He was preceded in death by his parents, William and Vasiliki, brother, Alfred, and sisters, Marie Costas and Aphrodite Fordes, as well as his late wife, Helen Manning Michel. He is s
 MITOFSKY--Warren. To our special friend and brilliant colleague Warren Mitofsky... the leader of a community of pollsters. He will be remembered and missed. The National Council on Public Polls MITOFSKY--Warren. In appreciation of Warren Mitofsky who fostered a special relationship 
 ROWAN--A. James. The Department of Neurology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine regrets to announce the death of A. James Rowan M.D. Dr. Rowan received his undergraduate training at MIT and his Medical Degree from Stanford University School of Medicine in 1961. He completed his Neurology
 SCHMIDT--George Paul Jr., died peacefully on Wednesday August 30, 2006, at the Woodlake Health Care Center in Tolland, CT. Born August 28, 1924, in Ft. Wayne, IN, he was the son of Dr. George P. Schmidt of Monroe County NJ and Irma G. Schmidt, presently of Tolland. He joined the Navy V-12's
 TRUDELL--Robert J. Age 75, of Nyack, NY, on September 3. The retired director of Greenburgh Public Library is survived by his children Ann and Robert H. Services at Grace Episcopal Church, 130 First Avenue, Nyack at 3PM, Saturday, September 9.       
 SIMIDIAN--Dikran Vahan 70, died September 1, 2006. He was born in New York, son of the late Vahan and Mannig (Bouchakjian) Simidian. He was a proud graduate of Kew Forest and Brown University. He was a beloved father and grandfather who was a kind, gentle, and a good hearted man. He is surv
 HOOD--Fred E., in loving memory, his wife Miriam, children Shawn, Joel, and Viviana and grandchildren Loren, Liana and Daniela.       
 Robert Mitchell, a scenic designer for shows on and off Broadway as well as for dance and music performances, died on Aug. 18 in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, a rare disease of the blood vessels, said his partner, Patrick Horr
 ANDERSON--George M. , An electrical engineer and physicist who pioneered the first gyroscope aircraft attitude control system for NASA's Skylab program while with Bell Laboratories, died of pulmonary failure at home on September 5 in Lincroft, New Jersey. He was 85. Born in Rochester, Penns
 BARBER--Bernard, 88, on August 20, 2006 in New York City. Married 50 years to his lifelong love, the late Elinor Gellert Barber. Beloved father to Chris Master, Leslie Barnard, Philip Barber and John Barber and father-in-law to George Master, John Barnard, Amy Stursberg and Staci Barber. He
 BAREST--Herman, MD. The Department of Ophthalmology of the Montefiore Medical Center mourns with great sadness the passing of Dr. Herman Barest, esteemed colleague and neuro-ophthalmologist. He will be especially remembered for his commitment and devotion to teaching residents during a care
 BLINDER--Richard. The Center for Jewish History mourns the passing of its architect Richard Blinder whose talent, vision and skill created a historic and cultural environment for preserving and presenting the Jewish experience. He will be greatly missed, but his vision will serve as an insp
 DADOURIAN--Haig R. of New York City, died September 5, 2006, after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Born on December 15, 1936, Brooklyn, NY to Elise and Dadour Dadourian, Survivors of the Armenian Genocide. Graduated from Columbia School of Business, NYC. During his forty year busines
 GAMSU--Richard C. On September 7th. Loving husband of Toby Gamsu. Devoted father of Andrew and Elyse. Cherished grandfather of Michelle, Amanda and Jack. Richard will be deeply missed by many. Funeral services Sunday, September 10, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 
 GREENOUGH--Peter B. , on September 6th, 2006. Beloved husband of 49 years of Beverly Sills. Loving father of Lindley, Nancy, Diana, Meredith and Peter, Jr. and grandfather of Allyson and Geoffrey. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the New York City Chapter of th
 HIRSCHHORN--David. We remember David with love and treasure memories of family gatherings with his beloved mother Amelia. With his dear Barbara, Dan, Michael, Debbie, Sarah, and all their family, we mourn the loss of a man of brilliance, honor and integrity. Jacqueline B. Schneider, Mrs. He
 MICHEL--George W., 83, passed away at the Hope Hospice House in Bonita Springs, Florida on August 30, 2006. He was preceded in death by his parents, William and Vasiliki, brother, Alfred, and sisters, Marie Costas and Aphrodite Fordes, as well as his late wife, Helen Manning Michel. He is s
 MITOFSKY--Warren. To our special friend and brilliant colleague Warren Mitofsky... the leader of a community of pollsters. He will be remembered and missed. The National Council on Public Polls MITOFSKY--Warren. In appreciation of Warren Mitofsky who fostered a special relationship 
 PRICE--Norman. September 6, 2006. Passed away peacefully in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Felicia for 64 years. Father of Michael and Claudia, brother of Sylvia, cherished grandfather of Jordan, Andrew, Jonathan, Cali, Chance, Charlie, Grace and Teddy. 1929 Erasmus Hall High School gra
 SCHMIDT--George Paul Jr., died peacefully on Wednesday August 30, 2006, at the Woodlake Health Care Center in Tolland, CT. Born August 28, 1924, in Ft. Wayne, IN, he was the son of Dr. George P. Schmidt of Monroe County NJ and Irma G. Schmidt, presently of Tolland. He joined the Navy V-12's
 SHEA--John S., Jr. Of Monroe, died September 5, 2006. Son of the then-Sheriff of NY County (Manhattan), the late John S. Shea & Mary Olcott, he was born in NYC January 30, 1911. Loving husband of Nina D. Shea of Monroe, who survives him. Other survivors: daughter Mary Ann Kies of Long Beach
 WESTON--Edward (Eddie). The Council and Staff of Actors' Equity Association mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Eddie Weston, who served as a Councillor Officer and Executive of this Association and was a devoted member for more than 60 years. WESTON--Edward. The 
 PETERFREUND -- Stanley. Died September 7, 2006 at the age of 80. Beloved husband of Eve for 57 years; loving father of Nancy, Lynn (Nick) and Alan (Cathy); grandfather of Rebecca, Sean, Ezra, and Sam; and brother Sally. His work over five decades as a management consultant had a significant
 Peter B. Greenough, a former financial columnist for The Boston Globe and the husband of the opera star Beverly Sills, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89. Ms. Sills confirmed the death and said he had been ill for several years. Mr. Greenough was a columnist for The G
 Richard L. Blinder, who as a founding partner of the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle played a leading role in projects like the Rubin Museum of Art and the former Ford Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan, died yesterday in Shanghai, where he was working on a theater complex. H
 Ronald Mansbridge, a publisher who, in the late 1940's, established the first American branch of Cambridge University Press, died last Friday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 100. His family confirmed the death. Mr. Mansbridge began his association with the press in the e
 James deAnda, a retired federal judge who as a lawyer in the early 1950's had a leading role in a Supreme Court decision that prohibited courts from keeping Mexican-Americans off juries, died on Thursday at his summer home in Traverse City, Mich. Judge deAnda, who lived in Houston, was 81. 
 BLINDER--Richard L. The Board of the Seventh Regiment Armory Conservancy was saddened to learn about the passing of our fellow Board member and friend, Dick Blinder. Dick was one of the earliest champions of the revitalization and restoration of the Armory, and his passion, dedication and q
 CURCIO--Frank P. On September 7, 2006. Born and raised in his beloved Brooklyn, he was a man who loved life. A wonderful cook, gifted artist, an avid collector and a die-hard Yankee and Ranger fan, he knew how to live life to the fullest. Outspoken and passionate about so many things, he wa
 GAMSU--Richard. Beloved husband of Toby, father of Elyse and Andy. Our deepest sorrow in the passing of our dear friend and confidant, we miss him already. Sharon/Albert Vitarelli       
 LYM--Robert. Goodbye, dear friend. Listening to Saturday afternoon at the opera and eating good food will always bring you joyously back into my life. Robert Bolton $(6$)LYM--Robert of New York City on September 6, 2006. Having joined I.M. Pei and Partners in 1956, he retired in 198
 McKEON--Robert F. , died recently in Manhattan. He was born January 22, 1925 in Auburn, New York. Predeceased by parents William H. McKeon Sr. and Wanda McKeon, brothers William H. McKeon, Jr. and Richard McKeon, he is survived by sister Jane Dodge and brothers John McKeon and Paul Connor. 
 PRICE--Norman. September 6, 2006. Passed away peacefully in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Felicia for 64 years. Father of Michael and Claudia, brother of Sylvia, cherished grandfather of Jordan, Andrew, Jonathan, Cali, Chance, Charlie, Grace and Teddy. 1929 Erasmus Hall High School gra
 SCUDDER--Rogers V. 93, of Groton. Rogers V. Scudder Teacher, Scholar, Author. Rogers V. Scudder, a beloved and renowned teacher of Latin, died on Sunday, August 27, 2006. He was 93 years old and lived in Groton, Massachusetts. Born in St. Louis in 1912, Mr. Scudder attended St. Louis Countr
 PETERFREUND - Stanley. Died September 7, 2006 at the age of 80. Beloved husband of Eve for 57 years; loving father of Nancy, Lynn (Nick) and Alan (Cathy); grandfather of Rebecca, Sean, Ezra, and Sam; and brother of Sally. His work over five decades as a management consultant had a significa
 Sheldon Binn, an editor at The New York Times who guided the newspaper's coverage of New York government and politics for nearly two decades and who mentored two generations of reporters, died yesterday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 83.The cause was cardiac arrest, his son, Joshua, sa
 William A. Garnett, who elevated the genre of aerial photography to a form of artistic expression with his sweeping pictures of forests, sand dunes, agricultural crops and suburban grids, died at his home in Napa, Calif., on Aug. 26. He was 89. His death was confirmed by his son, Bi
 Armin H. Meyer, a former United States ambassador to Lebanon, Iran and Japan, died Aug. 13 in Washington. He was 92. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Kathleen White of Bethesda, Md. Mr. Meyer was ambassador to Lebanon from 1961 to 1965, to Iran from 1965
 Bill Stumpf, a designer of the much-honored and highly popular Aeron ergonomic office chair, died on Aug. 30 in Rochester, Minn. He was 70. The cause was complications of abdominal surgery, said his daughter, Carol Stumpf. In 1994, Mr. Stumpf and Don Chadwick, an industrial 
 BAILEY--Glenn W, 81, founder and former Chairman of Bairnco Corporation, died in Stamford, CT of pancreatic cancer. A resident of Hobe Sound, FL and Darien, CT, he is survived by his wife of 54 years, Cornelia Tarrant Bailey. He will be greatly missed by all who loved and admired him. Donat
 BILLER--Jack Michael. 75, A Brooklyn Boy who loved Vermont died July 13. Jack was a loyal husband who leaves a loving wife, Irene, two stepchildren Lisa and Michael, two grandchildren Benjamin and David. He leaves a sister Barbara, her children Ronnie and Amy, and several nieces and nephews
 BLINDER--Richard L. The Board of the Seventh Regiment Armory Conservancy was saddened to learn about the passing of our fellow Board member and friend, Dick Blinder. Dick was one of the earliest champions of the revitalization and restoration of the Armory, and his passion, dedication and q
 BOGATY--Helene Marer, 86, of Westborough, MA, formerly of Englewood, NJ; beloved mother of Lewis Bogaty and Daniel Bogaty and his wife Fran Taylor; grandmother of David, Tanya, and Michael Bogaty, and beloved wife of the late Harry Bogaty; dear sister, aunt and friend. Died peacefully on Ju
 DADOURIAN--Haig R. of New York City, died September 5, 2006, after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Born on December 15, 1936, Brooklyn, NY to Elise and Dadour Dadourian, Survivors of the Armenian Genocide. Graduated from Columbia School of Business, NYC. During his forty year busines
 DORFMAN--Dr. Sam H. 89 and 11 months. Cherished husband of Gertrude. Darling father of Fern, Michael, Urszula and Edmond. Beautiful grandfather of Russell. Devoted brother of Mayme, Beatrice and Sophie. Dearest son of Sadie and Harry. Graduate of Stuyvesant High School, City College, and Au
 DUNBAUGH--Edwin Lane. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Edwin Lane Dunbaugh, Ph.D., Distinguished Professor Emeritus of History who was an integral part of the Hofstra community since 1954 and who witnessed the growth of the University over the ensuing 50 years. Prof
 GAMSU--Richard C. On September 7th. Loving husband of Toby Gamsu. Devoted father of Andrew and Elyse. Cherished grandfather of Michelle, Amanda and Jack. Richard will be deeply missed by many. Funeral services Sunday, September 10, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 
 GILMAN--Sidney. On September 7, 2006 in Florida. A patriotic WWII Veteran who served on the USS Wasatch in the South Pacific. He practiced law in NYC for 53 years. Beloved husband of the late Doris (nee Byer). Loving father of Howard Gilman, Sandra Kaufman, Max Gilman and Hannah Peretz. Che
 GOTTHILF--Daniel L., on September 3rd, 2006 after a brief illness. Born in 1924, he was a WWII fighter pilot, honors graduate of the University of Michigan, CPA, former senior Vice President/Finance of Savin Corp., author of Treasurer's and Controller's Desk Book and numerous articles for b
 GREENOUGH--Peter B. , on September 6th, 2006. Beloved husband of 49 years of Beverly Sills. Loving father of Lindley, Nancy, Diana, Meredith and Peter, Jr. and grandfather of Allyson and Geoffrey. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the New York City Chapter of th
 GUNDLACH--Robert. 90, well-known New York set designer and member of the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences, died August 8, 2006 after a brief illness in Mitchellville, MD, where he had lived for four years at The Cullington Retirement Community. His diverse career encompassed mov
 HEWITT --Edward Ringwood, on August 16, 2006, at age 80. Son of the late Louise Schieffelin Hewitt and Abram Stevens Hewitt; great-greatgrandson of New York philanthropist Peter Cooper. He was a graduate of Harvard College and the University of Texas and served in the U.S. Navy in World War
 HIRSCHHORN--David. We remember David with love and treasure memories of family gatherings with his beloved mother Amelia. With his dear Barbara, Dan, Michael, Debbie, Sarah, and all their family, we mourn the loss of a man of brilliance, honor and integrity. Jacqueline B. Schneider, Mrs. He
 JONES--Douglas W. A memorial service will be held to celebrate the life of Douglas on Friday, September 15th, at noon, at the Kaplan Penthouse, in the Rose Building, at 165 W. 65th St, at Lincoln Center. His many friends and colleagues are invited.       
 JONES--James M. The Browning School community notes with sadness the death of Mr. Jones, admired and respected Lower and Middle School science teacher from 1993 to 2005. He died of cancer in Fort Lauderdale, Fl. on September 3. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. At the fa
 LEONARD--Edmund J. Jr. Of North Carolina formerly of Stony Brook, LI. Beloved husband of Jeannine. Loving father of James and his wife Susan , Peter and his wife Nina, Maryann Holsberg and her husband Thad and the late Susan Grace. Devoted grandfather of Delaney, Kevin, Matthew, Christina a
 MAGNUSON--Paul A. Of Maplewood, New Jersey, passed away on September 7th. A Professor of English Literature at New York University, Paul is survived by his wife, Bonnie, his two daughters, and his brother. A private memorial service will be held. In lieu of flowers, please send a donation i
 MANSBRIDGE--Ronald, 100. On September 1, 2006, peacefully in his home in Weston, Connecticut. Born 11 November 1905 in England, son of George Frederick Mansbridge, inventor of the Mansbridge electrical condenser, and Florence Quye Mansbridge. Educated at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, M
 NORRIS--Frank A., passed away September 4, 2006 after a 12 year battle with multiple myeloma and AML. A native Fire Islander and dedicated member of the Ocean Beach community, Frank remained active in community affairs and with the Ocean Beach Association until the time of his death. Frank,
 PACHMAN--Manny, a dear friend and a trusted advisor. He will be remembered for having brought humanity into the world of business. Employees of Brighton Best Socket Screw $(6$)PACHMAN -- Emanuel C. Born October 1, 1929. Died September 6, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Pa
 ROWAN--A. James. The Department of Neurology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine regrets to announce the death of A. James Rowan, M.D. Dr. Rowan received his undergraduate training at MIT and his Medical Degree from Stanford University School of Medicine in 1961. He completed his Neurolog
 HOOD--Fred E., in loving memory, his wife Miriam, children Shawn, Joel, and Viviana and grandchildren Loren, Liana and Daniela.       
 ROSENTHAL--Peter. 11/1/46-9/10/01. Beloved father, son, husband, brother and friend, he is missed by all and in our hearts forever.       
 King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga, the ruler of a Polynesian archipelago of 150 islands with 100,000 subjects and the last reigning monarch in the South Pacific, died late yesterday. He was 88 and had been on the throne since the death of his mother in 1965. He died after a long ill
 Norman Kelley, a tenor who sang with the New York City Opera, the Metropolitan Opera and many other companies around the world, died last Monday in Rockland, Mass. He was 95. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, from which he had suffered for many years, said Lisa Waitt Belcher of the
 BLINDER--Richard. At the very week when Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York marks the restoration of its main sanctuary, the leadership and members of the Temple express their profound sadness on the passing of Richard Blinder. The firm of which he was such an integral part, Beyer
 BLOCH--Charles E. Of NYC, on September 8th, 2006, after a brief illness. President/owner of Bloch Publishing Company. Beloved father of Jamie (Peter), Mitchell (Agnes), Elisabeth (Dean) and Abby (Rob). Adored grandfather of Cory, Emily, Alex, Sara, Madeline, Dan, Ryan, Julie, Esek and Noah.
 KATZ--Arthur. Of Lake Worth, FL, and previously of Plainview, NY, passed away Saturday, September 9, 2006. He is survived by beloved daughters Deborah (Robert) Tom and Lisa (Adam) Waldbaum and cherished grandchildren Joshua and Sam Waldbaum. A loving and selfless man; he will be missed by a
 OLDSTEIN--Jack. 81, passed away September 10, quietly, at his Tamarac, FL, home with his family and friends by his side. Born in Brooklyn, Jack was preceded in death by his cherished wife of 31 years, Norma Ness Oldstein. He is survived by his beloved children, daughter Wendy Oldstein and s
 SISKIND--Gerald. The family of Beverly and Herbert Abrams send our condolences and love on the passing of Gerald Siskind. To Jeryl and Karyn and the rest of the family we send our deepest sympathies. $(6$)SISKIND--Gerald (Jerry). Our gentle bear, after a long valiant struggle. Cherished by 
 SILVERMAN--Bernard. Central Synagogue mourns our longtime member, Bernie Silverman. He demonstrated his support of the Jewish people and of our Congregation with profound commitment, resolute vision and a deep love of the values of Jewish life. We are especially grateful for his work on beh
 LEVIN--Neil. In honored memory of my beloved son Neil and the men and women who perished with him on 9/11/01. Gloria Levin       
 Charles Aug, a retired real estate executive who helped create a specialty in the commercial brokerage business -- marketing storefront space -- died in Boston on Sept. 1. Mr. Aug, a resident of South Beach, Fla., and Manhattan, was 68. The cause was heart complications of amyloidos
 BANFIELD--John E. The partners, associates and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter and Banfield express profound sorrow at the death of John E. Banfield, beloved father of our friend and partner, William E. Banfield. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Catherine, his sons William
 BRICKMAN - Roslyn. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a kind, gentle and loving Jewish Woman of Valor, who was the beloved wife of Leon Brickman; cherished mother of Rena (and Mordy) Rosen, Zahava (and Moshael) Straus, and Noah (and Barbara) Brickman; adored sister 
 COWEN--Edwin A., Jr., of Greenwich, CT, died Sunday September 10 at the age of 71. Beloved husband of 44 years to Connie. Loving father of Todd and Jennifer, cherished grandfather of Archer, Jack, Sara, Lily and William, and brother of Joan C. Bowman. He was born in Long Branch, NJ on Octob
 EISENBERG--Kalman S., MD, 1939--2006, from leukemia, on September 10 after as he put it, ''giving it a pretty good run.'' Survived by his adored family: wife Joanie, late wife Nancy; children Janet (David), Dan (Rose), Sharon (Lorne), Lizl and Josh (Vanessa); grandchildren.       
 HEWITT--Edward Ringwood. The Board of Trustees, the faculty, staff and students of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourn the passing of Edward Ringwood Hewitt, great, great grandson of our founder, Peter Cooper, and a Trustee of the college from 1979-2002. We extend 
 HILLMAN--Herbert E. Husband of the late Libby Hillman, died peacefully at age 93 on September 10, 2006. He was the loving father of David, Donald and Betty and father-in-law of Arlene and Pat and grandfather of Katie, Jon, and Rebecca. Contributions may be made to the Deerfield Valley Healt
 LEAHEY--Edward Berry, Sr., M.D. 87, formerly of S. Nyack, N.Y. , on September 9, 2006 in Dover, DE. Surviving are his wife of 60 years, Mary Carlin Leahey, four daughters Mimi, Anne, Frances, Patricia, a daughter-in-law Lynn and 12 grandchildren; his sons, Michael, Edward and Joseph predece
 RAPOPORT--Joseph. The family mourns the passing of Joseph Rapoport, beloved husband of Taira, father of Zendy, Karyn, Robin and Barbara; grandfather of Sasha, Tatiana, Jessy, Andrew, Haya, Lexi, Avigail, Menachem, Benjamin, Odelya and Elizabeth. Father-in-law to Eddie Milstein and Bruce Gre
 SMIT--Jacobus Wilhelmus (Wim) at his home in the Netherlands on July 19th at the age of 75. Adored husband of the late Pamela Richards Smit, beloved father of Tyn, Michiel, Guy and Marijke, and brother of Johan Smit. Wim was born on August 25th, 1930 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He joined t
 TEITELBAUM--Irving, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Yonkers. Died September 9 peacefully at home with his loving wife Eve at his bedside. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle, and brother to Pauline Halpern and Marvin Tyson. Master bridge player, believer in social justice and pass
 WEISSBARD--Samuel H. Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Makar Properties, LLC, Newport Beach, California, on September 2. Survived by his wife Annette and her son Shane, and his sons Andrew Joshua and David. Memorial Services on Thursday, September 7, 5 p.m., Balboa Bay Club, New
 ZIFF--William Bernard, Jr., passed away peacefully at his home in Pawling, NY on Saturday, September 9, 2006. Dedicated husband of Tamsen Ann; father of Dirk, Robert and Daniel; grandfather of four and uncle of four nephews and their seven children. A memorial gathering will be held at the 
 LICHTERMAN--Dr. Sigmund, 96, of Coconut Creek, FL on September 10th. Formerly of Irvington, NY, he practiced dentistry in the Bronx until his retirement to Florida, where he devoted himself to his true passion, sculpture. His work has been shown in many galleries and museums. Boyish and opt
 Tom Suzuki, an art director and graphic designer who in the 1970's transformed academic textbooks by introducing vibrant color and pictorial variety to a genre long strait-jacketed by outdated formats, died on Sept. 3 in Fairfax, Va. He was 76. The cause was complications of leukemi
 William B. Ziff Jr., a publishing executive who made publications like Car and Driver and PC Magazine must reading among hobbyists and computer enthusiasts, died Saturday at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Dirk said. Mr. Ziff, a po
 Arkady I. Volsky, a confidant of the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and founder of Russia's most prominent business lobby, died here on Saturday. He was 74. The cause was complications of leukemia, according to the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the business lobby he
 Joachim Fest, a German journalist and author known internationally for his biographies and interpretations of Hitler, Albert Speer and the regime they embodied, died Monday in Kronberg-im-Taunus, his hometown, near Frankfurt-am-Main. He was 79. His death was announced by the Frankfu
 BOLT--Byron. His colleagues at the Harlem Educational Activities Fund note with profound sadness the sudden passing of Byron Bolt, a dear friend and devoted co-worker at HEAF since its inception. Byron's thoughtfulness, his kindliness and his unfailing dedication to HEAF were an inspiration
 COWEN--Edwin A., Jr., of Greenwich, CT, died Sunday September 10 at the age of 71. Beloved husband of 44 years to Connie. Loving father of Todd and Jennifer, cherished grandfather of Archer, Jack, Sara, Lily and William, and brother of Joan C. Bowman. He was born in Long Branch, NJ on Octob
 DaSILVA--Albert.On September 11, 2006. Beloved husband of Zenia, father of Gary and Russell. Grandfather of Amanda, Kevin, Ellen, Stacey, Emily, Nancy and Victoria. Brother of Willard. May he rest in eternal love. Funeral at Temple Emanuel, GreatNeck,11:30 am ., Sept. 13.       
 DUNN--Oscar Lewis , Jr. The Trustees, Life Trustees, Physicians and Staff of NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our dear friend and Trustee, Oscar Lewis Dunn Jr. An energetic supporter of the Hospital for 27 years, Mr. Dunn lent his uncommon wisdom and leadership skills to the g
 ENGEL--Morton. September 9. A devoted husband, loving father, great sailor and successful ocean - racer. He achieved considerable success in the 1960s as skipper of the first Bermuda 40. In the 1970s he sailed with distinction in the Southern Ocean Racing Circuit. In sailing and in life he 
 HIRSCHHORN--David. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of David Hirschhorn, a devoted friend and benefactor of Jerusalem whose spirit will live on in the many projects he helped to bring to life as the President of The Jacob and Hilda Blaustein Foundation. We extend our sincere cond
 LEAHEY--Edward Berry, Sr., M.D. 87, formerly of S. Nyack, N.Y. , on September 9, 2006 in Dover, DE. Surviving are his wife of 60 years, Mary Carlin Leahey, four daughters Mimi, Anne, Frances, Patricia, a daughter-in-law Lynn and 12 grandchildren; his sons, Michael, Edward and Joseph predece
 LESK--Norman, 89, Norwalk, CT, died at home on September 9th, 2006. He is survived by Adeline, his wife of 66 years, his daughters Judith Blaustein of Rochester, NY and Margery Groten of Poughkeepsie, NY, their husbands, Norman and Arthur, his grandchildren, Reeca, Natanya, Jonathan and Rap
 LOEBENBERG--Dr. Ralph. Yeshiva University mourns the passing, in Canada, of the beloved brother of Dina and brother-in-law of Dr. Herbert C. Dobrinsky, cherished members of our YU family. Dr. Loebenberg was a distinguished obstetrician/gynecologist and leader of the Beth Israel Synagogue in
 LORBERBAUM--Alan, S. An entrepreneur, carpet industry pioneer and philanthropist, died Saturday at his home in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 82. Alan was a dynamic and innovative leader in the carpet and rug industry for more than 40 years. He and his late wife, Shirley, founded Aladdin Mills
 MELVIN--Edward W. Of Southbury, CT, formerly of Manhasset, died September 12, 2006. Beloved husband of Norma (Dahl) Melvin, he leaves three sons, two daughters and 16 grandchildren.       
 RAPOPORT--Joseph.The partners and staff of Alpine Capital LLC mourn the passing on Sunday of Joseph Rapoport, 87, father of our dear friend Karyn Greenwald and father-in-law of our partner Bruce M. Greenwald. May the wonderful memories you have of Joe provide comfort to the entire Rapoport 
 ROTHPEARL--Elliot, 63, died in his sleep early Sunday morning. Elliot was the beloved husband of Missy (Norla)Rothpearl. He had lived in Jacksonville, FL since 1996. Born and raised in the Bronx, Elliot graduated from the High School of Music and Art(1960) and New York University(1964). He 
 SMIT--Jacobus Wilhelmus (Wim) at his home in the Netherlands on July 19th at the age of 75. Adored husband of the late Pamela Richards Smit, beloved father of Tyn, Michiel, Guy and Marijke, and brother of Johan Smit. Wim was born on August 25th, 1930 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He joined t
 STEVENS--Oswald, age 62, known as ''Ozzie'' to his family and many friends, passed away on Sunday, September 10, after a brief illness. Ozzie was the beloved husband of Theresa and loving and devoted father to his daughter Sunita and her husband Christopher Meyers. Ozzie was owner and chef-
 Dr. A. James Rowan, a noted expert on epilepsy who studied the disease in the elderly and helped investigate more effective medications to prevent seizures, died on Aug. 27 in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. In 1998, Dr. Rowan, a neurologist
 BOLT--Byron. His colleagues at the Harlem Educational Activities Fund note with profound sadness the sudden passing of Byron Bolt, a dear friend and devoted co-worker at HEAF since its inception. Byron's thoughtfulness, his kindliness and his unfailing dedication to HEAF were an inspiration
 CHESS--Stuart, passed away September 12, 2006 at age 68. Survived by sons Mitchell, Jeffrey, Jonathan, Douglas Chess and their families. Former V.P. at Paine-Webber on Wall St. Interment Mt. Hope Cemetery, Rochester, NY. Donations may be made to The American Diabetes Association in his memo
 ENGEL--Morton. September 9. A devoted husband, loving father, great sailor and successful ocean - racer. He achieved considerable success in the 1960s as skipper of the first Bermuda 40. In the 1970s he sailed with distinction in the Southern Ocean Racing Circuit. In sailing and in life he 
 LEVINE--Carl S., a great man a giant loss, we are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and counsel. We will never forget all the good years we had together. Your memory will live on in our hearts forever. Our condolences to Louise, Evan, Josh, and Amanda. Love, Jesse, Peter, Steph
 MALLEY--Simon. Age 83. Egyptian - born journalist, founder and editor of Afrique Asie, long-term and passionate advocate for Third World causes, died at his home in Paris, France, on September 7th, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Barbara, his children Nadia, of Arlington, Virg
 SOKOLOW--Jack, M.D. September 11, 2006. Beloved husband of Yvonne. Devoted father of Steven (Abby) and Andrew (Crista); loving and adored grandfather of Brian and Becky, Michael and Daniel. He will always be remembered for his enthusiasm and his zest for life.       
 ZIFF--William B. Jr. Jeffrey Haber and employees at Acordia were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Mr. William Ziff. Our sincere condolences to his family, his wonderful wife Ann and his remarkable sons, Dirk, Robert, and Daniel.       
 BOBRINSKOY --Nicholas, Alexis (Count). February 8th 1921 -September 12th 2006. Grand Prior of the Sovereign Order of Orthodox Knights Hospitaller of St. John of Jerusalem, great - great - great grandson of Empress Catherine the Great of Russia. He was married to Tatiana N. Timasheff (daught
 MOORE--John McDonald. 1/11/19/19-9/14/99 A book I have, a friend gave, Whose pencil, here and there Had notched the place that pleased him, At rest, his fingers are. Now, when I read, I read not, For interrupting tears , Obliterate the etchings Too costly for repairs. (E. Dickinson       
 Pierre Vidal-Naquet, an eminent French historian of the ancient world who became widely known for exposing wartime atrocities of the modern one, died on July 29 in Nice. He was 76. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his publisher, ditions la Dcouverte, told the French newspape
 Dr. Robert J. Gorlin, an oral pathologist who achieved penetrating insights into genetic disorders of the head and neck and helped write a definitive medical reference work on the causes of facial malformations, died on Aug. 29 in Minneapolis. He was 83. The cause was complications 
 Tyron Garner, one of two plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case in 2003 that overruled a Texas sodomy law in the broadest possible terms, effectively making homosexual relations a basic civil right, died Monday in Houston. He was 39. The cause was complications of meningitis, said his
 John Drummond, who as director of the Edinburgh International Festival from 1979 to 1983 transformed what had been a rather formal presentation of classical music into a kaleidoscopic celebration of many arts, died on Sept. 6. Mr. Drummond, who lived in Lewes, England, was 71. The d
 BASSUK--Irving, of Jamaica, NY, died at home with hospice on September 13, at age 95. Attorney and partner at Bassuk Brothers Inc., a real estate management company, for almost 60 years. Loving husband to the late Molly Bassuk. Devoted brother to Arnold and the late Albert, Sidney and Edwar
 DUNN--Oscar Lewis, Jr. The Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery notes with sorrow the passing of our friend, colleague, and trustee Mr. Oscar Lewis Dunn, Jr. We will miss his presence greatly. We express our sincere condolences to his wife Alex and the Dunn family. O. Wayne Isom, M.D. Karl 
 FAITELSON--Jonas. On September 11, 2006. Our beloved father, survived by his children Jeffrey, Jamie, David and Genessa, his sister Judith Dorn & loving grandchildren Sara, Joshua and Ayla Jane. Family will receive guests from 10:30 AM -12 noon on Friday at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Am
 FRIEDMAN--Seymour, (Honorable). A former attorney and judge, died of complications from ALS on Tuesday in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 82 years old. Mr. Friedman practiced law for over 50 years in New York, California, and Florida. Sy Friedman spearheaded a number of voting rights cases
 HAYS--Rex D. On September 8, 2006. Beloved husband of Lisby. Loving father of Connor and Matthew. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held on Wednesday, September 20, 2006, 5 pm, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to th
 LEVINE--Carl S. 59, devoted husband of 29 years to Louise Levine, dedicated father of Evan, Joshua and Amanda, passed away peacefully on September 13, 2006 after a two year battle with ALS. In addition to practicing law for 33 years, he also served on the Boards of Directors of Envirosure M
 MALLEY--Simon. Age 83. Egyptian - born journalist, founder and editor of Afrique Asie, long-term and passionate advocate for Third World causes, died at his home in Paris, France, on September 7th, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Barbara, his children Nadia, of Arlington, Virg
 SAPER--Bernard, Ph.D., The New York State Psychological Association is saddened by the death of a respected friend and accomplished professional, Past-President Bernard Saper, Ph.D. We extend our condolences to his wife Johanna and family.       
 STEVENS--Oswald, age 62, known as Ozzie to his family and many friends, passed away on Sunday, September 10, 2006 after a brief illness. Ozzie was the beloved husband of Teresa and a loving and devoted father to his son Anil, his daughter Sunita and her husband Christopher Meyers. Ozzie was
 BOBRINSKOY--Count Nicholas Alexis. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend Count Nicholas Alexis Bobrinskoy. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Countess Tatiana Bobrinskoy, his family. Robert Ritch, M.D. Riyoichi Saito Elena Ilitchev, M.D       
 WIST--Milton. On September 15, 1966, his too-short life ended and our lives changed forever. He lived fully and was adored by many. Two grandsons carry on his name. Reba, Ronda and Andrew       
 Collie J. Nicholson, for 30 years the imaginative sports information director whose marketing brought national and international fame to Grambling State University in Louisiana, died Wednesday at his home in Shreveport, La. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said Jane Davis, a 
 Dr. Michael S. Mamakos, part of a Long Island medical team that successfully reattached a child's severed leg in 1978, early in the development of microsurgery, died on Monday at his home in Huntington, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his family said.
 HIGH--John A., Jr. , longtime resident of New York City, died peacefully at home on August 18, 2006 at the age of 85. He was born on May 20, 1921, in Boston, Massachusetts, to Marguerite Davis and John A. High, Sr. A 1945 graduate of Stanford University, Mr. High pursued a successful acting
 LEVY--Melvin. Loving son of the late Jack and Laura, and caring brother of the late Morton. Also survived by his brother Frank and nieces, Jodi and Sue, and nephew Mike. Mel was an avid photographer and traveler. He served in Europe during WWII as a staff sergeant involved in shuttle bombin
 MOGTADER--Dr. Edith M. Of Freeport, NY, died September 13, in Mount Holly, NJ. Survived by a son Dr. Allen Mogtader and his wife Elizabeth of Moorestown, NJ, and grandson William Allen. Visitation Monday, September 18, 12-1, followed by a 1 pm service at Fairchild Sons Funeral Home, 1201 Fr
 RUBINFELD--Chaim. The rabbis, officers, trustees, and members of Congregation Adereth El mourn the loss of our congregant and friend, Chaim Rubinfeld. Chaim was devoted to our synagogue, serving as Gabbai, officer, trustee, and caterer. We will miss his devotion and his friendship. We offer
 WANG--C.C. The partners and staff of Funaro & Co., PC extend our sincerest condolences to Ken and Vera Wang on the loss of their father, C.C. Wang. He was an inspiration to us all and we cherish the more than 55year business relationship & personal friendship shared with him and your family
 Ira F. Brilliant, a real estate developer whose passion for Beethoven led him to found one of the world's major centers for the study of his work -- which contains first editions, musical instruments and a storied lock of the composer's hair -- died last Sunday in San Jose, Calif. He was 84
 BEVAN--Paul C. Beloved husband, devoted father, businessman, artisan and inventor passed August 30, 2006. His naming and carving of the celtic lovespoon is cherished. He loved America. We love him dearly.       
 D'ELISA--John E. , age 66, died on August 24, 2006.He was born on December 28, 1939 in NY, to the late John B. D'Elisa and Frances Sofarelli. He graduated from Lawrence HS in 1957, Bucknell Univ. (BS, Elec. Engineering) in 1961 and Polytechnic Inst. of NY (MS, Elec. Engineering) in 1968. Jo
 DIAMOND--Milton. 88 of Lauderhill, FL, formerly of Long Island, NY, passed away September 15, 2006. Beloved father of Marsha Chenoff and Susan Joy Diamond. Grandfather of Jodi & Tracy. Brother of Helen Forrest & Rose Epstein. Father-in-law of Robert Chenoff. Beloved husband of the late Beat
 GUNDLACH--Robert, 90. Well-known New York set designer and member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, died on August 8, 2006, after a brief illness in Mitchellville, MD, where he had lived for four years at The Collington Retirement Community. His diverse career encompassed 
 HALL--Dr. Craig D., age 50, passed away suddenly September 14. He was the devoted husband of Eve Hall (nee Kauders); loving father of Evan and Zoe Hall; beloved son of Helen Hall (nee Gutberlet) and the late Roger G. Hall; fond brother of Scott R. (Cate) Hall; son-in-law of Alexander and Ri
 HARRIS--Richard A. Age 88. On September 16, 2006, of Hackensack, NJ. Beloved husband of Evelyn (nee Sirotin). Devoted father of Peggy, Lynn and Liz. Loving grandfather of Jennifer Backer, Megan and Ryan Hardiman, Justin and Molly Schaeffer. Great-grandfather of Garrett and Nina Backer. Mr. 
 HAYS--Rex D. On September 8, 2006. Beloved husband of Lisby. Loving father of Connor and Matthew. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held on Wednesday, September 20, 2006, 5 pm, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to th
 LEVOWITZ--Herbert J., M.D. Age 72, died at home in Great Neck, on Sunday, September 10th. Born and raised in the Bronx, he attended CCNY and upon graduation in 1955, received the first Jonas Salk Scholarship Award to attend medical school at NYU. He was a devoted and innovative child and ad
 LEW--John Stephen, 72, of Ossining, NY, died September 14 after a long illness. He was born in New York on September 9, 1934, the son of Ann Light Lew and Edward A. Lew. He attended Mamaroneck High School and then Yale University, where he graduated in 1955. He earned a Ph.D. in Physics at 
 MALTBY--Lucius U. Jr. Passed away peacefully at his home on September 10, 2006. Beloved husband of Joan and father of Janet. Services private.       
 MANDEAU--Rolf A. Died tragically due to a truck accident. He was 80 years old. Leaves behind wife of 51 years, Eva, and his children, Daniel and Susan, and his grandchildren, Jeffrey, Michelle, Eric and Jackie.       
 SINCLAIR--Thomas. Services have been held for Thomas Sinclair, 65, a well-known Broadway actor for over 40 years, who died in Santa Cruz, CA. Survived by his parents, Bernice & Daniel Fogarty of Santa Cruz, and sister and brother, Danette Smith and James Fogarty of Boise, ID. Contributions 
 VAN HOVEN--John Emerson Jr. of Mystic, CT., September 12. A graduate of Williams College, John had a productive career in marketing and medical publishing. Noted for his innovative approach to pharmaceutical marketing, John brought new media properties to existing and emerging medical segme
 WANG--C.C. The partners and staff of Funaro & Co., PC extend our sincerest condolences to Ken and Vera Wang on the loss of their father, C.C. Wang. He was an inspiration to us all and we cherish the more than 55year business relationship & personal friendship shared with him and your family
 WATSON--John W. On September 1, 2006. Retired from NYNEX, John's civic-minded dedication included working at Keewaydin Camp in Salisbury, VT, caring for and feeding the homeless in NYC, and advocating for peace and justice. He will be missed by all who knew his generous spirit. He is surviv
 WEAN--Raymond J. Jr. The board, faculty and staff of Miss Porter's School note with sorrow the passing of our friend, colleague and trustee. We will miss his presence greatly. Our sincere condolences to his family. Barbara Higgins Epifanio, Chair, Board of Trustees Burch Tracy Ford, Head of
 Ivan Luini, who, as founder and president of the New York-based Kartell U.S. Inc., helped bring plastic furniture out of the garden and into the American living room, died on Friday in a small-plane crash in Moffat County, Colo., near the Wyoming border. Mr. Luini was 46 and lived in New Yo
 CIFU--Robert, M.D. Born May 18, 1928, died peacefully at home September 16, 2006, after a short illness. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Anne; son Adam and daughter-in-law Sarah, and joy-ofjoys grandchildren, Ben and Amelia, as well as sisters, Palma Cifu and Miriam Driscoll. Loved 
 HARL--Sidney W. The Board of Directors of the William S. Paley Foundation is deeply saddened by the passing of Sidney W. Harl, a dedicated and longtime Director and officer. For over 50 years our colleague was a trusted personal and financial advisor to the late William S. Paley and the Pal
 WANG--C. C. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL, acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Cheng Ching Wang. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. William Murphy, President       
 Warren Bolster, whose innovative photography helped popularize surfing and skateboarding, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Mokuleia, Hawaii. He was 59. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Janet Tramonte, Mr. Bolster's sister. For decades, Mr. Bolster remained pe
 Edward J. King, a governor of Massachusetts who defeated the incumbent, Michael S. Dukakis, in the 1978 Democratic primary for governor but lost a rematch in 1982, died on Monday in Burlington, Mass. He was 81. Mr. King died after tripping and falling about 10 days ago, his son Timo
 BELBOUL--Salim E. Died at the age of 97 on September 15th, 2006. Beloved husband of Hanina and father to Ida and David. Caring brother, two sisters, Rachel and Saida. His presence will be missed by his friends and family.       
 CIFU--Robert, M.D. Born May 18, 1928, died peacefully at home September 16, 2006, after a short illness. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Anne; son Adam and daughter-in-law Sarah, and joy-ofjoys grandchildren, Ben and Amelia, as well as sisters, Palma Cifu and Miriam Driscoll. Loved 
 GOLDFARB--Murray, 78, was born in Chicago, Illinois. He passed away on September 13, 2006. Survived by his wife of 35 years, Roberta, three sons, David, Jonathan and Billy, two daughters, Susan and Amy as well as a younger brother Alan. In lieu of flowers, please make donation to the stroke
 LAYTON--John. 87, passed away on August 25, 2006. He was born in Brooklyn on April 22, 1919. He lived in his early years with his family in Levittown, LI. He moved to Melbourne, FL in 1987. He was a Route man for the New York Times and the Daily News. He joined the East Meadow Fire Departme
 RANDAZZO--Carmine. His senseless loss reminds us that there are no guarantees for a noble life lived. He will live on in three of New York's Finest, Joe, Anthony and Carmine. We know he has taken his place among the mighty in Heaven. We send our love and deepest sympathies to the entire fam
 RE--Judge Edward D. The Board of Directors and Members of the Neponsit Property Owners' Association deeply regrets the loss of one of its Board members and wishes to express its heartfelt condolences to his family. Edward D. Re was Chief Judge Emeritus of the U.S. Court of International Tra
 WILSON--Don A. ''Hap''. Died unexpectedly on September 15, 2006. Born in West Palm Beach, FL on October 5, 1962, Don's life encompassed his family, his friends and the pursuit of nature through fishing, hunting, and his active partnership in Wolf Creek Ranch in Kenansville, FL. Don is survi
 Robert Earl Jones, a stage and screen actor and the father of the actor James Earl Jones, died on Sept. 7 in Englewood, N.J. He was 96 and a longtime resident of Manhattan. Mr. Jones died of natural causes, according to Dale Olson, a spokesman for the family. The senior Mr. 
 David T. Lykken, whose studies of criminal behavior, polygraph testing and especially the genetics of personality in twins helped undermine some of the most cherished notions of social science, died Friday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, which str
 Joseph Hayes, who wrote the novel ''The Desperate Hours,'' which he later turned into a Tony Award-winning play and a movie, died on Sept. 11 in St. Augustine, Fla., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Hayes died in a nursing home of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son D
 Mickey Hargitay, the Hungarian-born bodybuilder who won the 1955 Mr. Universe title, married the voluptuous actress Jayne Mansfield and went on to have his own acting career, died Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was bone marrow cancer, said Bill Comstock, a spokesman f
 CIFU--Robert, MD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society deeply mourn the passing of a distinguished and beloved member and colleague. Bob was a brilliant clinician and teacher who, as Psychiatristin-Chief, left an impressive legacy for which we are profoundly gratef
 GUMPORT--Robert A., Sr. of Carlsbad, CA, formerly of Rancho Santa Fe, CA and Scarsdale, NY, died peacefully on September 19 at age 83. Bob is survived by Lois, his wife of 58 years, children, Robert Jr. and Bonni of Rancho Santa Fe, CA, Barbara of McKinney, TX, and Patricia of Stanford, CA,
 LEVY--Leon, 84, deceased September 19. Husband of Elsi, father of Mark (Lillian), Mimi Frank (Alan), Judith Safran (Robert), Janet Pahima (Mordehai); grandfather of Lora Cover (Avidan), Lisa Levy, Jarod and Samantha Frank, Elana, Matthew and Amalia Safran, Yonadav, Elad and Annabelle Pahima
 NEWDOW--Ira. September 19, 2006 in Rockleigh, N.J. Beloved husband and partner of Rosalyn for 57 years. Devoted father of Mark(wife Terry), Michael and Julie, loving grandfather of Adam, Emily, Adriana, Glen, Joshua and Tamara; cherished brother of Miriam(Elliot). Extraordinary man, brillia
 RE--Honorable Edward D. The Board of Trustees and members of The Historical Society of the United States Court of International Trade note with sorrow the passing of the Honorable Edward D. Re, Chief Judge Emeritus of the United States Court of International Trade. Judge Re was recognized f
 SKOLNIK--Martin H. Age 86. On September 18th, 2006. Devoted husband of Norma. Loving father of Robert Skolnik and Richard Skolnik MD. Businessman and war hero, decorated with Purple Heart and Distinguished Flying Cross in WWII. Services: Wednesday, September 20th, at11:15 AM at The Riversid
 SOMIN--Martin E. (Ph.D). Beloved husband of Sondra (nee Berger). Devoted father of Lynn and husband David Kaminski; doting grandfather of Shira. Also survived by sister Harriet Heit Sackowitz. Services to be held Thursday, September 21, 2006 at 1pm at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 8000 Jericho 
 MOSKOWITZ--Benjamin, 92, peacefully in his sleep on September 19th. Beloved husband of late Sylvia, loving father of Deanna Glassmann, Joseph Moskowitz and Phyllis Figluizzi. Devoted grandfather of Leonard, Dina, Steven, David, Minda, Robert, Adam and the late Michael. Cherished great-grand
 Joe Glazer, the singer-songwriter known as Labor's Troubador, who played cowboy tunes on a $5.95 mail-order guitar as a boy in the Bronx, then sang songs of solidarity on picket lines and union halls and once on the White House lawn, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88
 BERGMAN--Walter, 79, on September 20, 2006. Devoted husband of Joy for 45 years. Loving father of Alisa and Brett, Barry and Lisa, Shelley and Felice. Devoted ''Poppy'' to Justin, Danielle, Aaron, Andrew, Ross and Ethan. Founder and President of Bergman Film Associates, Inc. Walter was an e
 LEVY--Leon, 84, deceased September 19. Husband of Elsi, father of Mark (Lillian), Mimi Frank (Alan), Judith Safran (Robert), Janet Pahima (Mordehai); grandfather of Lora Cover (Avidan), Lisa Levy, Jarod and Samantha Frank, Elana, Matthew and Amalia Safran, Yonadav, Elad and Annabelle Pahima
 LIEBERMAN--Julius. Age 92 on September 20, 2006. Beloved husband for 65 years to Hortense, loving father to Janet, Laurie, Edward. Dear brother to Shirley Yourish and the late Samuel. Cherished grandfather to Jennifer, Amy, Shoshana. Father-inlaw to Barbara. He died after a prolonged courag
 MARGOLIS--Seymour (Si). The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Janice and the entire family. Fred H. Weinshank, President $(6$)MARGOLIS--Seymour (Si). On Sept
 SHEFLIN--Eric, D.O. The NYS Chapter of the ACOFP mourns the loss of our past executive director, who dedicated over 35 years to his patients, colleagues and profession.       
 WALLIS--Dr. Robert passed away in his sleep, ''cured,'' on August 27 at age 106. This brilliant physician and beloved man is survived by Roxanne Wehrhan, his son Victor Wallis of Somerville, Mass., eight grandchildren, three greatgrandchildren, and countless grateful patients, living and de
 ROSENBERG--Michael J. The NYU community mourns the loss of its devoted alumnus and trustee, Michael Rosenberg. A recipient of an MBA from NYU's Leonard N. Stern School of Business, he had a distinguished business career, and was decorated for valor for his military service in Korea. He serv
 Sven Nykvist, one of the world's foremost cinematographers, whose poetic use of light illuminated many of Ingmar Bergman's greatest films, died yesterday in Sweden after a long illness. He was 83 and was living at a nursing home where he was being treated for aphasia, a symptom of d
 Henri Jayer, an untrained French vineyard worker who rose to become one of the most important winemakers in Burgundy in the 1970's and 1980's, died Wednesday in Dijon, France. He was 84. The cause was cancer, according to Martine Saunier, his representative in the United States. He 
 BEINBRINK--Robert , Long Time Manhasset Resident Robert C. Beinbrink, 84, of Hilton Head and formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. passed away on Monday, September 18, 2006 at his home. He was born on April 11,1922 in Richmond Hill, N.Y. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1943 with a
 BENZ--Thomas Paul of New York City, NY died at home at the age of 41 on September 18,2006 after a valiant battle with cancer. Tom was the beloved son of Dr. Paul Benz of Pittsburgh and the late Mickey Benz; dear brother of Kathy Lawten and the late Rick Lawten of New Canaan, CT; Carol and T
 HUVOS--Andrew. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Andrew G. Huvos. Dr. Huvos was internationally acknowledged for his expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of bone tumors. His description of the features of chem
 JONES--Nathan 89, on September 19,2006, at his home in Upper Montclair, NJ. Father of the late David. Survived by son Roderick. Also survived by sister Emily and brother Kearney. Son of the late Leonard W. and Helen S. Jones of Rochester, NY. Graduate of Princeton University and New York Un
 RAPOPORT--Bernard, M.D. 90, September 12. Brilliant physician, cherished husband of Gladys (Bernstein), father of John, Carol Monteleoni and Sarah Kaufman, grandfather of Robin, Dana, Claire, Paul, David and Daniel. His legacy of intelligence, compassion, humor and idealism survives in thos
 SHEFLIN--Dr. Eric. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns his death and extends sypathy to the bereaved family. Jay H. Rosenbaum, Rabbi Garrett L. Gray, President       
 ROSENBERG--Michael J. On September 20, 2006. Cherished husband of Kathleen A., adored father of Ann K. and Emily J. Roth and her husband Jacob, stepfather of Michael Jennings and his wife Kathleen. Proud grandfather of William, Anna, Eliza Sarah and Gage, beloved brother of Jerry and Doroth
 Pham Xuan An, who led a double life as a trusted reporter for Western news organizations during the Vietnam War while spying for North Vietnam, died Wednesday in Ho Chi Minh City. He was 79. His death, at a military hospital, was reported by his son Pham Xuan Hoang An, who told The 
 Syd Thrift, the longtime major league executive and scout who revitalized the Pittsburgh Pirates franchise in the 1980's and championed innovative baseball techniques, died Monday in Milford, Del. He was 77. Thrift's wife, Dolly, said he died hours after undergoing knee-replacement 
 Vico Magistretti, an architect and industrial designer celebrated as the dean of Italian modernism for his sculptural furniture and lamps of the 1960's and afterward, died on Tuesday in Milan. He was 85 and had lived and worked in Milan all his life. John Ryan, the senior sales mana
 Dean E. Wooldridge, a crucial figure in the development of the technology of nuclear warfare in the 1950's, died Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., his hometown. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, his son James said. Dr. Wooldridge was the ''W'' in TRW, one o
 COHEN--Theodore, M.D., 80, passed away on September 21. He was the loving husband of Barbara for 59 years, devoted father of Mitchell, Judy and Robert, and adoring grandfather of Allison and Jamie. He was the beloved son of Dora and Irving, brother of Sidney, uncle of Michael, Douglas and D
 DANIELS--John Hancock, 84. of Mulberry Plantation, Camden, South Carolina, died Monday, September 18, 2006. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota, October 28, 1921, he was the son of Thomas Leonard Daniels and Frances Hancock Daniels and the grandson of John W. Daniels, one of the founders of Archer 
 LUBELL--Nathaniel, 90 of Fort Lee, NJ died in his home on Sat., Sept. 17th. He was the beloved stepfather of Robert Dow, of Tuxedo Park, NY and Lawrenceville, NJ, and the beloved uncle of David Buskin of NYC; John Buskin of Montclair, NJ; David Lubell of Ossining, NY; Elizabeth Kozart of Ph
 ROSENBERG--Michael J. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our esteemed New York Road Runners Foundation Board Member, Michael J. Rosenberg. A dedicated runner and friend of New York Road Runners, Michael completed many marathons, often with his wife Kathleen. His deep invol
 STOCKHAUSEN--Thomas C. 93, on September 21, 2006 of pneumonia. Devoted husband of Anne. Loving father of Michael and Patricia. Adoring grandfather of T.J. Emmerman. Yale class of 1936. WW II veteran. Former Executive Vice President of W.R. Grace. Member of the Sands Point and Garden City Go
 Richard D. Caleal, a self-taught automotive designer who, working at his kitchen table, helped create the 1949 Ford -- the compact, streamlined and hugely popular car credited with lifting the company out of its postwar financial slump -- died last Saturday in West Bloomfield, Mich. He was 
 Roy M. Brewer, an ardent anti-Communist who headed the Hollywood branch of the movie industry's leading union of stagehands during the blacklist era, died last Saturday in West Hills, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. He was 97. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughte
 Jack Banta, whose superb relief stint as a sidearming rookie right-hander helped propel the Brooklyn Dodgers to the 1949 National League pennant on the season's final day, died last Sunday in Hutchinson, Kan. He was 81. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his son, Michael.   
 BENZ--Thomas Paul of New York City, NY died at home at the age of 41 on September 18,2006 after a valiant battle with cancer. Tom was the beloved son of Dr. Paul Benz of Pittsburgh and the late Mickey Benz; dear brother of Kathy Lawten and the late Rick Lawten of New Canaan, CT; Carol and T
 COHEN--Theodore, M.D., 80, passed away on September 21. He was the loving husband of Barbara for 59 years, devoted father of Mitchell, Judy and Robert, and adoring grandfather of Allison and Jamie. He was the beloved son of Dora and Irving, brother of Sidney, uncle of Michael, Douglas and D
 FRAIOLI--Patrick A. Sr. Died peacefully on September 22, 2006. A member of the New York Stock Exchange for 24 years. Loving father of Patrick Fraioli Jr. and his daughter-in-law Jane. Loving brother of Joanne Propersi and Anthony J. Fraioli. Devoted grandfather of Angela and Caroline. Frien
 PACHMAN--Emanuel: (''Manny'') died Wednesday September 6th, 2006 in Brooklyn N.Y. after a battle with cancer. Mr. Pachman was born in Brooklyn on October 1st, 1929. He attended Erasmus Hall High School and graduated from New York University in 1950. He spent 35 years as a CPA and founding p
 POLISAR--Jonathan on August 15th. Beloved son of Betty Polisar Reigot, loving brother of Paula, Diana Jean, and Katherine Schwartz. His zest for life, creativity, buoyant nature, and loyalty defined him. May his soul rest in peace.       
 WADLER--Herman E. Herman Wadler, the last surviving founder of the Wadler Bros. Inc, building supply center of Fleischmanns, New York, passed away Tuesday morning at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 76 years old and had started the family business in 1959 with his older brothers
 ZUCCAIRE--Jacques. 97, on September 7, 2006; passionate artist, art director, advertising executive. Father of Philip Zuccaire and Jacqueline Auerbach, grandfather of Gabrielle Auerbach. He will be remembered for his great talent, wit, charm and friendship.       
 Armin Jordan, the Swiss conductor, died on Wednesday in Zurich. He was 74. He died in his sleep in a hospital, according to a statement by the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande. Mr. Jordan had collapsed last Friday while conducting Prokofiev's opera ''The Love for Three Oranges
 Fred N. Spiess, an oceanographer and marine explorer who helped create an unusual floating laboratory that has yielded a bounty of information about underwater acoustics and sea currents, died on Sept. 8 in San Diego. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his family said. In the 
 Sir Malcolm Arnold, one of the best-known British composers of the 20th century, who wrote nine symphonies, composed 132 film scores and won an Oscar for the soundtrack to ''The Bridge on the River Kwai,'' died Saturday in Norwich, England. He was 84 and lived in Attleborough, near Norwich.
 CATE--William Clark, Sr. 86, WWII veteran, life time resident of Cambridge, MA, died peacefully at home September 22, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Vaughan Downer Cate. Survived by five children: Vaughan C. Grubbs, Cambridge, MA, Araline U. Cate, Portland, OR, Lisa C. Stiegel, Sudbury, 
 LYONS--Dr. Albert S. Physician, surgeon and author, died Sunday, age 94. He wrote ''Medicine, An Illustrated History,'' was often honored for his significant contributions to patients and colleagues, and will be remembered as the gentlest and kindest of men. Survived by his wife Barbara Lyo
 OSTOW--Mortimer. We announce with a deep sense of loss the passing of Dr. Mortimer Ostow, who was for many decades the director and scientific leader of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund. His leadership established the intellectual exchange of colleagues in the field of psych
 Patrick Quinn, a former president of the Actors' Equity Association who was about to become its first new executive director in 25 years, died yesterday at his country home in Bushkill, Pa. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Maria Somma, a spokeswom
 Alan Fletcher, who helped revive postwar British design and typography through his vibrant corporate identity work and book designs and who was a co-founder of Pentagram, London's first major international design consultancy, died on Sept. 21 at his daughter's home in East Sussex, England. 
 BURKES--Albert. Poppy--a million kisses and a thousand thank yous. I love you to the moon and back again. Jenny $(6$)BURKES--Albert (October 21, 1914-September 25, 2006). The one and only. From teenage love to lifelong soulmate of 65 years to the late Adele Burkes. Incomparable fath
 COURTISS--Dick. You impacted the lives of thousands of children and adults. From your childhood days in Boston to your legendary career as an all-American lacrosse player and football player at Syracuse to building Camp Vega, one of America's premier camps, you gave 100% in all you did with
 FELDMAN--Louis. In Hollywood, Florida, September 23. Beloved husband of the late Sara M. Much loved son of the late Anna and Benjamin. He was the devoted and remaining brother of Sadie and Allan Fudell, Esther and Joseph P. Feldman, Lee and Henry Winokur. He leaves his loved and loving niec
 FLAUM--Howard, age 89, died September 21, 2006 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was alifelong resident of NYC. Mr. Flaum was the son of the late Samuel & Lillian Flaum and brother of the late Roslyn Lieberman. He served in the US Army Air Force in WWII. He was a salesman at the Murphy Bed Co. for
 LYONS--Albert S., MD. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Lyons, Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus, and Alumni Historian, was one of the first two physicians to graduate in 1942, from the Hospital's newly e
 O'BRIEN--Kenneth A., 73, of Middletown died Sept. 25, 2006 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Catherine Cooney O'Brien, 5 children, and a brother Raymond V. O'Brien. Mass of Christian Burial Thurs. 10:00 AM Church of the Nativity, Fair Haven, 
 OSTOW--Mortimer. We announce with a deep sense of loss the passing of Dr. Mortimer Ostow, who was for many decades the director and scientific leader of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund. His leadership established the intellectual exchange of colleagues in the field of psych
 QUINN--Patrick. The Actors' Fund mourns the death of our friend and Trustee, Patrick Quinn. He loved actors and was a positive force for good; his leadership was hopeful and inspiring. His kindness, joyfulness and sense of humor will be missed. His memory will be cherished by all who knew h
 STEWART--Thomas. Great artist, majestic singer, valued mentor and beloved friend, Thomas Stewart touched many lives as a superb performer, adored colleague and wise teacher. We will miss him terribly but no one will suffer his loss so deeply as his adored Evelyn. With our love and respect, 
 VOLK--William. 1911 to 2006; died at Applewood Estates, Freehold, N.J.,September 23, 2006. Survived by his wife of 66 years, Dorothy Thorsen Volk.       
 ZELIN--David. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, N.Y., mourns the passing of our beloved member David Zelin. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence Glass, President       
 KIRSHENBAUM--Isidor. On September 24, 2006. Dr. Kirshenbaum was born on June 22, 1917 to Samuel and Kate Kirshenbaum. He obtained his PhD in Chemistry from Columbia University in 1942 and served on the Manhattan Project. After WW II, Dr. Kirshenbaum joined Esso Research and Engineering Comp
 Thomas Stewart, an American baritone who was renowned for his portrayals of Wotan, Amfortas and other central Wagnerian roles and who was heard frequently at Bayreuth and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 78. The soprano Evelyn Lear, Mr. Stewart's wife 
 Alfred Mann, a musicologist and teacher, died on Thursday in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 89 and lived in Fort Wayne. His death was announced by his son Adrian. Mr. Mann is perhaps best remembered for his translations of and commentary on the works of the Austrian composer and mu
 Byron Nelson, the winner of a record 11 consecutive professional golf tournaments in 1945 and one of golf's most renowned figures, died yesterday at his home in Roanoke, Tex. He was 94. The Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office said he died of natural causes, The Associated Press
 Gilbert Jonas, a longtime fund-raiser for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and made his home in Manhattan. Mr. Jonas died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital, his family said. In recent years, he had 
 ALDERMAN--Joseph. Age 82 of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. on September 23, 2006. Survived by his loving wife of 57 years Cylvia (Freedland) and four children, Mark (Sue Ellen), John (Nancy), Laurie and Ellen (Bill Harwood). Devoted grandfather to eight grandchildren. Joseph was born in Syracuse, 
 BALANCIA--Charles. The President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire staff at Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the death of Charles Balancia, senior vice president of engineering. ''Charlie'' worked at Montefiore for 48 years and had a hand in raising every building o
 BOSNIAK--Samuel of Philadelphia, PA passed away peacefully on Sunday September 24th at age 90. He was the husband of the late Thelma Bosniak. Loving father of Dr. Stephen Bosniak of NYC, Mark Bosniak Esq. of Philadephia and Karen Patou of Palo Alto, CA. Cherished grandfather of Jordana Bosn
 BURKES--Albert Bernard. ''And when he shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine, That all the world will be in love with night, And pay no worship to the garish sun.'' Love, now and always, your little girl, Susie       
 GARSIDE--Grenville, 76, at home in Norfolk, Conn.on September 22. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Lawrence Garside of Norfolk; his sister, Helen G. Randolph, Cambridge, Mass.; his daughter, Elizabeth R. Garside, Washington, D.C.; his sons, Jonathan H. Garside, St. Louis, Mo.and Alexande
 HERRERA--Marco, June 23, 1914 to August 31, 2006. Remember him with laughter and not tears. Salude Marquito! A mejores tiempos.       
 KOPPEL--Yehuda. September 25, 2006 in New York. Mr. Koppel, 89, was born in Kalish, Poland to Chaim and Sara Koppel. He left Poland at the age of 16 and resettled in Palestine. Mr. Koppel joined the British Army and was a member of the Jewish Brigade. He fought in WW II in Europe and retire
 LYONS--Dr. Albert S. Friends at 88 mourn the passing of our neighbor, a kind, witty, and gentle man; a caring and conscientious physician; a distinguished writer; a host of exceptional charm; and a cherished friend. We offer our deepest condolences to his wife and family.       
 QUINN--Patrick. It is with deep sorrow that the American Guild of Musical Artists, AFL-CIO mourns the sudden and untimely death of Patrick Quinn. On behalf of AGMA's officers, members and staff our prayers and sympathy go out to Patrick's partner, his family and loved ones and to all the me
 SHEFFER--Ralph, 93 of Westport, CT, died at his home on September 26,2006. He was the beloved husband of the late Betty Rabinowitz Sheffer and loving father of Ann Sheffer and Bill Scheffler, Douglas and Barbi Sheffer, and Jonathan Sheffer and Christopher Barley M.D. He was a devoted grandf
 STEWART--Thomas. Great artist, majestic singer, valued mentor and beloved friend, Thomas Stewart touched many lives as a superb performer, adored colleague and wise teacher. We will miss him terribly but no one will suffer his loss so deeply as his adored Evelyn. With our love and respect, 
 TULL--Patrick. We mourn the loss of our dear fellow Player, member of our Board of Directors, wonderful actor and great friend. His contributions to our club were significant and his fellowship was fun and memorable. He will be sorely missed. Our love and thoughts are with Sue, Kate and Sio
 CHODOSH--Alice. Wife of the late Jacob. Beloved mother of Susan and Meryl. Dear sister of the late William Perlman and his wife Dorothy. Dear grandmother of Jenifer and David. A loving heart and inspiration to all. Services were previously held.       
 GARSIDE--Grenville, the members of the Robert M. Morgenthau Association, mourns the loss of our dear friend and former colleague as an Assistant United States Attorney. Grenville was an outstanding lawyer and a fine human being. He will be sorely missed, and we extend our heartfelt sympathy
 MARKS--Theodore. It is with great sadness and sorrow that the family of Theodore ''Ted'' Marks announces his passing on September 26, 2006. Ted was born on April 2, 1919 in New York City, NY. He graduated from the City College of New York with a bachelor's in Engineering and served in the U
 RILANDER--Arthur, age 95, of Rockville Centre, NY passed away on September 26, 2006 of natural causes. Devoted husband of Beverly for 68 years. Adored father of Harvey (Lynda) and Kenneth (Nancy); and cherished grandfather of Adam and Allison. He was loved and respected by those who knew hi
 SANDLER--Dr. Howard J. 64, of Northern New Jersey, on September 26, 2006. During the Vietnam War; he was Chief of Aerospace Medicine at McGuire Air Force Base from 1969-1971. Tireless in his clinical practice at Valley Hospital, he also served his profession as Instructor of Surgery at Vete
 SHEFFER--Ralph. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Westport Public Library mourn the passing of our dear friend, Ralph Sheffer. His leadership of the Library while serving on the Board of Trustees from 1982 to 1990 and his Presidency from 1989 to 1990 provide inspiring memories to us al
 STEWART--Thomas. He was vocal royalty--and one of the nicest human beings you could ever meet. We were privileged to have heard and known him. Marilyn Horne The Marilyn Horne Foundation       
 STICHMAN--Murray James age 90, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL and Queens and formally from Kings Point, Long Island on September 25th 2006. Born in Brooklyn, son of Abraham and Fanny Stichman, brother of deceased Arnold and Bert, survived by beloved wife, Rita, son, Barton, daughter, Laurie and 
 BURKES--Albert 10/21/1914-9/25/2006. He was loved by so many children, but the blessed three of his own are broken hearted and devoted daughters, Susan and Lynn, and a son, Jeffrey Burkes.       
 FENSTER--Sidney. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome S. Seiler, M.D., Pres.       
 FOSTER--Ronald M. Jr. Longtime resident of New York City died at the age of 80 on September 26, 2006, in Da Nang, Vietnam, while doing what he loved the most, traveling the world. He is survived by his loving wife, Marcia Worthing, his five children, Alison (David), Thomas (Denise), Alexand
 KOPPPEL--Yehuda. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a pioneer of the State of Israel and extends its deepest condolences to his wife, Zipora; daughter Abigail and son-inlaw Leslie H. Wexner, YU Guardians; sons Dan Koppel and Gil Kopppel, and the entire family. May they be c
 MACK--William. 76, of Jackson Twp, NJ. Formerly of Lincroft, NJ, died on Saturday, September 23, 2006 at home. Mr. Mack was born in Philadelphia, PA, lived in Lincroft, NJ for many years before moving to Jackson Twp. three years ago. Mr. Mack was a U.S. Army veteran. Mr. Mack was an insuran
 OPATUT--Joel In Remembrance of Joel Opatut. The Boards of Trustees and physicians and staff of Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Medical Center Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing of Joel Opatut on September 23, 2006. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family and friends
 SOLOWAY--Pearl. The staff of the law offices of Masliah & Soloway PC extends its deepest sympathies to Lavi Soloway and his family on the death of his beloved mother, Pearl.       
 GALLO--Christopher Columbus. Passed away September 23, 2006. He was the kindest, most generous, brilliantly creative person we have had the privilege to know. He will always be loved and admired not only by our family, but all his friends and colleagues in the world of interior design. From
 Dr. Harris Busch, a biochemist and cancer researcher at Baylor College of Medicine who helped unravel and describe aspects of the chemical structure of cancer cells, died on Sept. 22 in Houston. He was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Busch 
 DOLSON--William, died Saturday, September 23, 2006 at the Northeast Center for Special Care in Lake Katrine, NY, after battling lung cancer. Bill was born in Beacon, NY on September 18, 1951 and graduated from Our Lady of Lourdes High School, Poughkeepsie, NY in 1969. A Magna Cum Laude grad
 KOPPEL--Yehuda. The Hillel family notes with sadness the passing of Yehuda Koppel of New York City. We are forever indebted to proud Zionists like Mr. Koppel who believed in, and risked their life for, the creation of the State of Israel. The seeds he planted allowed Israel to grow and flou
 LEE--Booker, 90, died August 31 in Fort Lauderdale, after residing many years in NYC, Scarsdale and Greenwich and following a distinguished career with the United Nations as Training Officer for Translation Services. Left to cherish his memory are wife Dorothy; son Benjamin; daughter Victor
 LINDER (LOSKOWITZ)--Ira Roy. 90, born August 2, 1916 Brooklyn, NY died September 29, 2006, of Lake Worth, FL. Devoted son of Archibald and Claire Loskowitz. Loving husband of 65 years to Sylvia Radin Linder. Devoted father of deceased Theodore Charles and surviving sons Andrew and Arthur. A
