 Joe McCluskey, a 1932 Olympic medalist who won more United States track and field titles than any other runner, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 91. Although Henry Laskau, a long-retired race walker, won 42 national titles, no runner has approached McCluskey's 27.
 Lionel Hampton, whose flamboyant mastery of the vibraphone made him one of the leading figures of the swing era, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was complications of old age and a recent heart attack, said his manager, Phil Les
 ANDRES-Dr. Giuseppe. Died in Pisa, Italy, on July 28th. A pioneer in kidney research, he received his M.D. in Pisa, and his Ph.D. at the University of Rome. He served as Distinguished Professor of Microbiology, Pathology and Medicine at SUNY, Buffalo (1970-90). He then worked as Immunopatho
 BAIRD-Robert A. 64, adored father, companion and friend, passed away August 20, 2002. He was laid to rest at Nocona Cemetery, Texas. Bob's love of life, movies and NYC will always be remembered. His generosity and sense of humor will live on through all who knew him.       
 BERNSTEIN-Harold. It is with great sorrow, that we acknowledge the passing of Harold Bernstein. Harold was ''a mensch for all seasons,'' who enjoyed the love and respect of the legal community, his family and friends. He was a valued trustee of Congregation Mt. Sinai for many years and will
 BRECHER-H. Reggie. 97 years young, passed away on August 28, 2002. Devoted son, lifelong member of the Masons, past Master of the Nathan Strauss Lodge, President of the Bon Vivants Social Club of New Rochelle, NY. Survived by his beloved sister Jeanne Gadd of Plantation, FL, newphews Samuel
 KAPLAN-Sidney S. In his 85th year on August 30, 2002. Devoted husband of Lillian Redner for 61 years. Loving father of Peter, Robert, Barbara and the late Richard. Adored grandfather of Kevin and Casey, sons of Peter and Lesley Kaplan. Dara, Rebecca and Gabriele, daughters of Robert and Mic
 MARGOLIES - Jacques. 85, on August 29, 2002. Revered, loved and honored, he is survived by his cherished wife Ruth, daughter Eva, her children David and Melissa, daughter Caryn and son-inlaw Steven Bregman, and his precious granddaughter Rachel. You have touched all whom you've met, and wil
 MULLER-John Edward. Of Brooksville, Fla. Formerly of Garden City, N.Y. On August 28, 2002 after a 10 month battle with melanoma. He was 66. A Bronx native, he retired in 1994 from Citibank as a Vice President. Surviving are his wife Elaine, and three daughters Susan Kiesel of Lake Grove, N.
 PIKE - Harold. Empathetic and dedicated physician, well respected by his patients. Much loved by his extended family in New York and Redlands, CA, as husband, father, grandfather and adored big brother. Funeral Septemer 1, in San Bernardino, CA. Sheldon and Alexandra Pike Harriet and Stan E
 REDFIELD-Walter C., Esq., on August 28, 2002. Husband of the late Evelyn. Beloved father of Douglas (Debra) and Susan. He will be deeply missed by his grandchildren Shelby and Rebecca, sister Laura and her husband Bernard Levy, sister -in-law Pearl Zuckerman and many nieces and nephews. A m
 ROBERTIELLO-Richard C. On August 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Terril Gagnier. Father of Robert. Brother of Charles Robertiello. He was a noted psychiatrist in the metropolitan area for over a half century and author of many books. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Frie
 TRIPP-Paul. Born in New York City, February 20, 1911. The creator of Tubby The Tuba, Mr. I. Magination, The Christmas That Almost Wasn't, and so much more. Generations of children owe him a wonderful debt. None more so than his children and their families. We love you Daddy. Suzie, David, R
 UDIS-Louis. WWII Veteran and Secretary, Congregation Sons of Israel, Yonkers, passed on August 30, 2002. He is survived by his beloved wife Anne, children Howard, Janet and Jeffrey, daughterin-law Marie, son-in-law Dr. Yitzchak Hollander, and grandchildren Sarah, Danielle, Jennifer, Benjami
 WINSON-Sy. Died peacefully in his sleep Saturday morning August 24th. He was 76. Sy Winson was born Seymour Tennenbaum on April 3, 1926 to Polish immigrants Frieda and Jack Treitl and grew up in the depression era south Bronx. Tennenbaum was an Ellis Island appellation. Winson was a name hi
 ZAROFF-Isidore, on August 11, 2002. The Zaroff family thanks you for the many contributions and expressions of sympathy they have received and asks that any further donations in his memory be directed to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021.   
 Paul Tripp, a Pied Piper of early children's television who created the musical fantasy ''Tubby the Tuba'' and appeared as the host of his own show, ''Mr. I. Magination,'' died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 91. It was while serving in the Army in China during World War II that Mr
 Stanley R. Greenberg, a television screenwriter who shaped the docudrama format with his meticulously researched scripts for ''Pueblo,'' ''The Missiles of October'' and other dramas, died Aug. 25 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 74. The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend
 Bern Laxer, creator of Bern's Steak House in Tampa, Fla., one of the country's more unusual and most popular restaurants, died on Saturday at his home in Tampa. He was 78. He died after a long illness, his son, David, said. Bern's, which opened in 1956, quickly grew into a major Flo
 Dean Riesner, who began his movie career as a toddler acting with Charlie Chaplin and went on to become a seasoned scriptwriter who dreamed up some of Clint Eastwood's tough-guy lines, died Aug. 18 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83. Mr. Riesner worked mostly on feature films and
 FORSTER-Sanford (Sandy). Beloved husband of Rosalie. Devoted father of Arlene, Scott and Pam. Loving Poppy to Daniel, Corey and Shana. Brother to Vera, Eleanor, Arnold, Irwin and Joey. Favorite uncle. The Mayor of Harrow Street and friend to all. Memorial services will be held on Monday, Se
 GROSS-Leonard H. Former President and Publisher of the Cortlandt Group, a medical publishing company in Hawthorne, NY, died September 1, at his home in Irvington, NY. He was 63. The cause was brain cancer, after being diagnosed in 1997. Leonard Gross was born May 12, 1939, in Brooklyn, NY. 
 KAPLAN-Sidney S. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Sidney, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife Lillian and his family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President       
 LEVINE-Lawrence Arnold. January 23, 1931-August 25, 2002. Beloved and devoted father, born in New York, attended Wharton School of Business at University of Pennsylvania, successful career in commercial real estate, spent last 35 years in Florida. His daughters Ali Lindsay and Laine Alexand
 RADUC-Robert (Bob). The partners of Anchin, Block & Anchin LLP note the passing of Bob Raduc. Bob, a longtime partner who has been retired for a number of years, was the leader of our construction and food practices. Nicknamed Rapid Robert, he had keen insight in helping clients. We will tr
 SUTHERLAND-Edward A. C., 43 on August 28, 2002. Husband to Patricia (Jendraszek) Sutherland and father to Alexandra and Nicholas. He is also survived by his mother Viola Sutherland. A funeral service will be held at 1:00 PM on Wednesday, September 4, at the Chatham United Methodist Church, 
 Dr. Sanford L. Palay, a neuroscientist who helped uncover the detailed anatomy of the nerve cell and obtained the first images of the synapse and the structures that release messenger chemicals in the brain, died Aug. 5 at a hospital in Concord, Mass. He was 83. The cause was kidney
 BASNER-Austin E. On September 1, 2002. Beloved brother of Bert and the late Lawrence; uncle to Melanie, Simon, Charles, Andrew, Martin and Myra; partner to Alice. An extraordinary person, keen of mind, wit and humanity. Service Tuesday, September 3 at The Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterda
 BROWN-Fred E. 89, formerly of New York City and Morristown, N.J., passed away on Friday, August 30, 2002 at home in Lake Placid, NY. Born in Muskogee, Oklahoma, Mr. Brown graduated from The University of Oklahoma with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1934 and from the Harvard University Grad
 DeCUIR-William Henry. Son of William and Edna DeCuir (deceased) and cherished brother of Billie Johnson, Patsy Crowder and the late Bennett DeCuir, passed away August 31, after a two year struggle with brain cancer. Born and reared in North Little Rock, Arkansas, Hank served in the army as 
 GROSS-Leonard. A distinguished publisher and editor and a warm and caring human being. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Kathleen & Joseph Policano       
 HAMPTON-Lionel. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Lionel Hampton. A member of the Club for the last 52 years, he helped us preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club. He was a musical genius 
 KUO-Julian. After a brief illness, in Manhattan, on 29 August 2002, age 87. Loving & beloved husband of Gabrielle (Gervais), caring uncle and devoted friend to many. Member of United Nations Secretariat from 1946 to 1976 and for many years member of the Board of Directors of the Chinese Ame
 LIPSMAN-Seymour. On September 1, 2002 at age 77, after a brave fight with cancer. Cherished friend and beloved husband of Florence. Adored father of Steven and Jill, Madeline and Dan, Susan and Peter. Proud Poppi of Kayla, Adam, Kalman and Jacob. Seymour had a love for life, a zest for livi
 MILLER-L. Garrison Jr. Of Darien, CT., died Saturday, August 31, 2002 of melanoma. He was the son of Patricia Cromwell Miller and the late Lindley G. Miller of Upper Brookville, NY. Mr. Miller was a sales executive with Command Financial Press Corporation, NY, and active with various civic 
 PADDOCK-Robert C., 71. Retired Head Counselor of Great Neck South Senior High School, died Tuesday, July 30, at his home in Shoreham, Long Island from heart failure following complications of a stroke. His family was with him at the time. Born in Auburn, New York, in 1930, the second of thr
 ROBERTIELLO-Richard C. On August 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Terril Gagnier. Father of Robert. Brother of Charles Robertiello. He was a noted psychiatrist in the metropolitan area for over a half century and author of many books. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Frie
 Robert Van Scoyk, a writer and producer of television whodunits like the CBS series ''Murder, She Wrote,'' died on Aug. 23 in Los Angeles. A resident of the city since the late 1960's, he was 74. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Scoyk wrote and
 Lord Porter, who shared the 1967 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a technique to set off and observe chemical reactions with flashes of light, died on Aug. 31. He was 81. Lord Porter's research, performed at Cambridge University in the 1940's and 1950's with his mentor, Dr. R
 CONDON-Michael L. Of Lafayette, CA, 54, died August 31st, 2002 of a massive coronary. Devoted father of Regina, Jeremy, Stephen and Katie. Beloved son of Mary and the late Edwin. Loving brother of Maryellen Hamilton, the late Edwin Jr., Daniel, James, Gerard and Catherine McMahon. Michael w
 CONNELL-Mary P. (nee Carroll). On September 3, 2002, at the age of 87, of Riverdale, NY. Wife of the late Victor J. Connell. Mother of Mary E. of Philadelphia, PA and John C. and his wife Colleen of Haddonfield, NJ. Also survived by six grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Reposing Frida
 ETTINGER-Samuel of New York and North Miami Beach-Passed away on the morning of September 2, 2002. He was 95 years old. Beloved husband of Dr. Hana Heller, (nee Levine), and the late Charlotte Ettinger, (nee Adler). Cherished father of Philip O. Ettinger, MD, and Stephen J. Ettinger, DVM, a
 HARRIS-Sheldon H. Professor Sheldon H. Harris passed away on August 31, 2002, after 74 years of an extraordinary life. He and his beloved wife, Sheila, were happily married for over 46 years. He was the devoted and adored father of Robin and David. A brilliant scholar, he was Emeritus Profe
 HITTMAN-Fred. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society deeply mourn the loss of Fred Hittman of Baltimore, MD. A widely respected and beloved pillar of support in our organization, he first served as president of the Baltimore Chapter 25 years ago, a position he gracio
 HOROWITZ-Milton A. The Partners of 425 Park Avenue Company mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Milton Horowitz. We shall miss his advice and judgement. He was a true partner and wonderful counsel. Our deepest condolences to Lila and the entire family. HOROWITZ-Milton. How can word
 KASSEL-Jerry. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, Jerry Kassel. For over thirty years, Jerry Kassel helped advance the mission of the Medical Center through his generous support and his commitment to excellen
 KENNEDY - John Patrick. Loving husband of Doris, father of Maureen, father-inlaw of Ian, grandfather of John Patrick and Patricia Kathleen. He received his undergraduate and law degrees from Fordham University and practiced law in New York for forty years, specializing in real estate and tr
 KRAKEUR - Henry Arthur. Age 84 died September 3rd. Henry lived the teaching, ''Do all the good you can for your fellow man'' until the day he died-delivering food and raising funds for the hungry, teaching children and adults, counseling the sufferingwith his hands and heart. He will be gre
 KUO-Julian. After a brief illness, in Manhattan, on 29 August 2002, age 87. Loving & beloved husband of Gabrielle (Gervais), caring uncle and devoted friend to many. Member of United Nations Secretariat from 1946 to 1976 and for many years member of the Board of Directors of the Chinese Ame
 LEE-Robert W. 72, died Sunday at his residence following a long illness. He and his wife Brenda owned and operated the Wishing Well Restaurant in Saratoga Springs, NY-a popular spot for summer racetrack attendees. Mr. Lee was born in 1929 in Chatham, NJ, and attended Seton Hall University b
 MILLER-L. Garrison Jr. The Trustees, the Women's Board and the staff of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to the family of their dear friend. He became a Trustee in 1995 and served on several committees including the Committee for Camp Cromwell which was named in hon
 PARIKH-Suhrid, M.D. The Medical Staff Society of New York Hospital Queens mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends its heartfelt sympathies to his family. Marvin Leder, M.D. President Talat Addasi, M.D. Vice President Gabriel DeAngelis, M.D. Secretary/Treasurer       
 SCHLECHTER-Herbert D. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Herbert Schlechter, beloved father of Bruce Schlechter, a dear friend of UJA-Federation. Bruce is an associate board chairman of the Mosholu - Montefiore Community Center, a 
 SEIFERT-Randolph J., of Pound Ridge, NY, on September 1st, 2002. Randolph, a graduate of Columbia College and Columbia University Law School, was an attorney first with the New Haven Railroad and later as a sole practitioner in NYC. He served in the U.S. Army during WWII and continued in th
 SPITZ-Fred M. passed away Thursday, August 28th, 2002 at his home in Miami, Florida. Mr. Spitz was 59 years of age and is survived by his beloved children Jonathan, Amanda and Kim, his beautiful grandchildren, Zachery and Taylor and his sister Patricia Mondre of Fort Lauderdale, and his bro
 WALKER - Richard Bruce. September 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Mona Chen Walker; son of Marvin L. Walker and Louise V. Walker. Stepson of Donna Walker; brother of Diane DeLaat. He was a Director of Distribution Network Infrastructure and Support at John Wiley & Sons. Service Thursday, Septem
 Sheldon H. Harris, an American historian who helped establish that the Japanese army conducted biological warfare experiments in occupied China during the Second World War and that the United States knew about this but tried to cover up the evidence, died on Aug. 31 in Los Angeles. He was 7
 W. Clement Stone, who parlayed $100 in savings into an insurance empire that financed millions of dollars of contributions to the campaigns of Richard M. Nixon and hundreds of millions to charities, died on Tuesday in Evanston, Ill. He was 100 and lived in Winnetka, Ill. Mr. Stone's
 Martin D. Kamen, one of the scientists who discovered radioactive carbon-14 and in doing so helped lay a foundation for deciphering the chemical processes in plants and animals, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 89. ''The whole world changed,'' said Dr. Art
 BUSH-John on September 3, 2002 of Forest Hills, NY. Former Chairman of the Board Kobrand Corp. Beloved husband of the late Mildred Spence Bush. Loving father of Patricia Bush and Cynthia Kurthy. Loved by his son-inlaw David and grandchildren Lisa and John. Reposing Fox Funeral Home, Forest 
 COSTELLO-Albert J. Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of W.R. Grace & Co. and American Cyanamid Company, 66, Died Tuesday, September 3, 2002. Mr. Costello was appointed to the position of Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of W.R. Grace & Co., now headquartered in Col
 HOROWITZ-Milton A. A gentleman and a leader, always with a kind word for others. It was a privilege and a pleasure to have known him and we will miss him very much. With our deepest regrets and sympathies to his wife, Lila, and the family. Madelyn and Fred Freundlich HOROWITZ-Milton
 JONAS-Bessie. On September 4, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Jonas. Loving mother of Donald Jonas and his wife Barbara and Susan Klein. Cherished grandmother of Jim Klein and his wife Jane, John Jonas and his wife Barbara D. and Kirby Jonas. Great-grandmother of Adam, Lendri Sarah an
 MILLER-L. Garrison Jr., 44 of Darien, CT., died Saturday, August 31, 2002 of melanoma. He was the son of Patricia Cromwell Miller and the late Lindley G. Miller of Upper Brookville, NY. Mr. Miller was a sales executive with Command Financial Press Corporation, NY, and active with various ci
 SCHLECHTER-Herbert. The Board and Staff of the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center extends our deepest sympathy to our Past President and Chairman of the Board, Bruce Schlechter, and family, on the passing of his father, Herbert Schlechter. Andrew Berkman, President Don Bluestone, Exec. Dir
 STONE-W. Clement. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. W. Clement Stone, our longtime Trustee, friend, supporter and a true champion for children. Mr. Stone gave more than 50 years 
 Abe Lemons, who won 599 games coaching basketball at Oklahoma City University, Pan American University and the University of Texas in a career that spanned 34 seasons, died on Monday at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his fam
 Clemens Heller, who at the end of World War II established the Salzburg Seminar, a meeting point for students and intellectuals from the United States and Europe that was sometimes called the Marshall Plan of the Mind, died last Friday in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 85. Later Mr. 
 Eric Friedheim, a journalist, publisher, patron of contemporary composers and elder statesman of the travel industry, died on June 24 in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. A former publisher of Travel Agent magazine, he was the founder of the Friedheim A
 Glenn E. Watts, who as president of the Communications Workers of America led a three-week strike of 525,000 workers against the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1983, died on Aug. 30 in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was complications after
 J. Lee Thompson, the director of ''The Guns of Navarone,'' the original ''Cape Fear'' and dozens of other films in England and the United States, died on Friday at his summer home in Sooke, British Columbia. He was 88 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Thompson, who was born in Bristol, 
 ANTOS-George T. On September 5th, he was 73. Beloved husband of Mae (nee Dembas). Loving father of Katerina and Daniel Hulme and Thea Antos. Cherished grandfather of Anne Olivia Hulme. Fond brother-in-law of Harry Voziou. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave, NYC, Frida
 ARNDT-Edward W. II. CPA of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ. Died on September 4, 2002. Beloved husband of Rosemary (nee Anello). Loving father of Kerry of Ho-Ho-Kus and Suzanne Morris of Hoquiam, WA; Christopher of Atlanta, GA; Edward III of Worcester, MA;, Kenneth of Atlanta, GA. Adored grandfather of eight
 BUNDESMAN - Bernhard Borden Sr. Mr. Bernhard Borden Bundesman Sr., 87, died Saturday, August 24, 2002 at his home in Vero Beach, FL. Bernhard B. Bundesman Sr., retired as President and C.E.O. of deHavilland Aircraft of Canada. Mr. Bundesman is survived by his wife of 68 years, Leocadia; dau
 KRISEL-Stuart. Beloved son of the late Doris and Jacob Krisel, and brother of Lola Finkelstein, at his home in Woodstock, NY.       
 LaHOTAN-Robert. A painter known for landscapes and still lifes of lyrical color and subtle force, died on August 30, 2002. Whether he was painting the Maine forest at dusk or a bouquet of wild flowers in morning light, LaHotan brought to his work an abiding sense of mystery, a personal way 
 LOUGHLIN-Dennis G. The Leadership of Continuum Health Partners joins with the communities of its member hospitals in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Dennis G. Loughlin, beloved brother of our dear friend and colleague Brendan Loughlin, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Off
 MOSS-Ronald J. The entire AMREF family mourns the loss of Ronald J. Moss, Esq. A Board member, mentor, and stalwart supporter since its early days as the flying doctors of East Africa, Ron devoted his boundless intelligence, enthusiasm, integrity, and compassion to advance the cause of bett
 O'NEILL-James C. Of Rye, New York, died peacefully on Wednesday, September 4, 2002. He is survived by his wife, Rosaleen Doyle; his daughters and grandchildren. He is predeceased by his son who was killed on September 11, 2001. Family will receive friends today from 5-8 PM at the Graham Fun
 SMOLKA-Norman. 84 years, of Roslyn Hts, on September 5, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Karen Albucker, Judy Fink and Scott Smolka. Devoted father-in-law of Dr. Steven Fink. Loving grandfather of Melissa, Joshua, Jeffrey, Samantha and Zoe. Brother of the late Sidne
 SPINGARN-Harry. On September 4, 2002. A former clothing merchant in Orange, NJ. Survived by his wife Joyce (nee Frankel), sons, David, Arthur, and Roger, and their wives, five grandchildren, and a brother Edwin. Relatives and friends are invited to a memorial service Sunday, 10:30 AM, at Re
 STONE-W. Clement. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. W. Clement Stone, our longtime Trustee, friend, supporter and a true champion for children. Mr. Stone gave more than 50 years 
 TARDIO-Michael Ames, 35. Born on November 17, 1966, died tragically on September 2, in Los Angeles, CA. Mr. Tardio was the husband of Kelsey Oldershaw Tardio, devoted father of Lucas Shaw, age 5, and Riley Gristina, age 3; cherished son of Margaret & Neil Tardio; loving brother of Amy and D
 Pepsi Bethel, a longtime jazz-dance performer, teacher and choreographer, died on Aug. 30 at King's Harbor Multicare Facility in the Bronx. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said Vernel Bagneris, a colleague and friend. Mr. Bethel was a dapper, 
 Albert J. Costello, former chairman, president and chief executive of W. R. Grace & Company, died on Tuesday while playing golf at the Arcola Country Club in Paramus, N.J. He was 66 and lived in Franklin Lakes, N.J. The cause was evidently related to heart problems he had had, said 
 Andrew Forge, a painter, critic, teacher and former dean of painting at the Yale School of Art, died on Wednesday in New Milford, Conn. He was 78 and lived in Washington Depot, Conn. The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said. Over more than 50 years, Mr. Forge remain
 David Bierk, a Canadian painter, died on Aug. 28 in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 58. Mr. Bierk, who was suffering from leukemia, died of pneumonia, said Nancy Hoffman, his New York dealer. Mr. Bierk worked in the postmodern genre, in which images and forms appropriated from
 Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr., a former chairman of Pfizer Inc., whose long executive tenure bolstered the company's role in research and operations worldwide, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y. He suffered a brief illn
 Franklyn D. Holzman, an economist who uncovered regressive taxation in the Soviet Union and railed against intelligence estimates of Soviet military spending, died on Sunday at the home of his daughter, Miriam Meyer, with whom he lived in Clifton, Va. He was 83. The cause was compli
 LONDINO-William. On September 5th, 2002. Beloved husband of Maggie. Devoted nephew of Arnold, Christine, Rose and Rita. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday 7-9 PM and Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass o
 YOUNGER-Gloria, 79. Of Rye, NY on September 5, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Paul Younger of 55 years, loving mother of Marc and his wife Helen, Edward, Robert and his wife Robin, adoring grandmother of David, Ellis, Meg, Rebecca and Abigail, and devoted sister to Helen, Isabelle and broth
 HOOD-Fred E. September 7th, 2001. Remembered with love. His wife Miriam, children Shawn, Joel and Viviana, grandchildren Loren, Liana and Daniela, and many relatives and friends       
 Roy F. Katz, a deputy New York City fire commissioner who managed the Fire Department's construction program for the last six years, died on Wednesday at Cornell Medical Center. He was 48 and lived in Hollis Hills, Queens. The cause was complications after a bone marrow transplant, 
 Vlado Perlemuter, the revered French pianist who studied with Ravel and Fauré and was an acclaimed interpreter of their works, died on Wednesday at the American Hospital in Paris. He was 98. If Mr. Perlemuter never attained widespread public renown, it may have been because of a ce
 Dr. David T. Wilkinson, a pioneer in studying microwave radiation left behind by the Big Bang birth of the universe, died on Thursday at Princeton Hospital. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, which he had battled for 18 years, according to Princeton University, where Dr. Wilk
 BELLIZZI - Ronald Patrick. On September 6, 2002. A true artist, strong in character, gentle in manner and brave in heart. Survived by his beloved wife Linda, his loving daughters Jennifer and Heather, and his dear mother-in-law and father-in-law, Barbara and Dewain Robinson. Family will rec
 DEUTSCHER-Robert Irwin, was a highly repected trial lawyer who combined his professional life and philanthropy with his love of music and opera, creating a lasting legacy in each area of his life. Mr. Deutscher, a resident of Seattle and Gig Harbor, Washington, died Thursday, September 5, 2
 DOERNBERG-Walter S., Jr. Of White Plains. Died September 6, at age 83. Survived by his wife Ruth (nee Abbey) Doernberg, sons Daniel A. Doernberg and Walter S. Doernberg III, five grandchildren and a sister Carol Peyser. Funeral service Sunday, 10 AM, at Zion Memorial Chapel, 785 East Boston
 HACK-Yetta. Suddenly, on September 4, 2002 in Rome, Italy. Beloved wife of the late Leonard, loving mother of Stuart and his wife Diann, devoted grandmother of Leah and Corey, dear sister of Rosalyn Buchsbaum. Services Monday, 10 AM, at ''Parkside'', 98-60 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills.       
 HOROWITZ-Dr. Arnold. Of Tamarac, FL, unexpectedly on September 3, 2002. A compassionate practicing physician for 40 years. Adored husband of Louise. Beloved father of Mavis, Diane and Eve and stepchildren Sandy, Mark, Cheryl. Loving fatherin-law of The Three Michaels, brother Bill and his w
 ISACOWITZ-Stuart Jay, 62. On September 2, 2002. Beloved brother of David and the late Daniel; brother-in-law of Shari; uncle of Vicki, Anne, Amy and Stacy; and son of the late Bernard and Sally. Graveside services. Contributions in his memory may be made to Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 O
 KREUZER-Barton. On August 26, 2002, in Princeton, NJ, at the age of 93. Former Executive VP and General Manger of RCA Astro-Electronics Division and Executive VP Consumer Electronics RCA. Survived by his wife of 67 years, Virginia; his sons, Justin Kreuzer (Brenda) of Trumbull, CT, and Lloy
 LASH-Richard M., 71, aka ''Ricardo Pestana,'' died August 28 in San Juan, PR, after long illness. Founder of two non-profit organizations and tireless advocate for people with disabilities and their families, especially in low-income communities. Influential in the development of special ed
 LIEBOWITZ-Bruce Jay. Age 37, of Tel Aviv, Israel, formerly of Gaithersburg, MD, on September 5, 2002 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Shelly. Adored father of Smadar, Dan, Eli and Mai. Cherished son of Howard Liebowitz and Rita (Walter) Pancik. Loving brother of And
 LONDINO-William. On September 5th, 2002. Beloved husband of Maggie. Devoted nephew of Arnold, Christine, Rose and Rita. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday 7-9 PM and Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass o
 MATURA-Stephen. The auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital notes with deep sorrow the loss of our dedicated Board member Steve. We loved him and we will miss him.       
 MORELLO-Steven Patrick. 52, of Bayonne, on September 11, 2001, at the World Trade Center. Beloved husband of Eileen (nee Weeks). Devoted father of Steven Morello, Alfia Morello and Jessica LoRe. Loving grandfather of Presley Morello. Cherished son of Fay (nee Toscano) and Alfio Morello. Dea
 PRATT-Edmund T., Jr. Long Island University mourns the death of its beloved trustee and benefactor Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. He will be sorely missed by the many people whose lives he touched. Roger Tilles Chair of the Board of Trustees David J. S
 SACKER - Elion ''Lushe.'' Passed over on August 30, 2002. He was 72 years old. Brought up in the first American cooperative community built in the Bronx by ILGWU members, and known as ''The Coops.'' Active leftist in his youth. Carpenter by trade, proud to have worked on the Verrazano Bridg
 SHALLECK-Leonard C. On September 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Kalia. Loving father of Jimmy and Sheila. Dear brother of Alan, Lynn and Charles Shalleck. Adoring grandfather of Jason and Lauren. Respected matrimonial attorney. Member of the Friars Club. Board Member of the Sutton Place Synago
 WEISS-Herman Bill. Of Franklin Square, NY. Beloved husband of Janet. Devoted brother of Harriet and Muriel, and the late Shirley. Loving father of Pam and Ellen. Father-in-law of Frank and Andy. Adored grandfather of Courtney, Brian, Daniel, Jordan, and Rachel. Died peacefully on September 
 WHITE-James B. 82. Former Special Agent FBI, Assistant US Attorney and ADA New York County. Survived by his wife Eileen, sister Helen, daughter Patricia, sons James Jr., Brian, Michael, Sean, daughters-in-law Carolyn, Cynthia and JoAnne; grandchildren Daniel, Allyson, John Henry, Brendan an
 Frankie Albert, the first T-formation quarterback in modern college football as a two-time all-American at Stanford and later a star with the San Francisco 49ers, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Menlo Park, Calif. Albert, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 82. The cause was com
 DiMENNA-John. 93, on September 7, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Jeannette DiMenna. Devoted father of Nicholas, Joan and John, and adored grandfather to thirteen grandchildren. He was a lifetime member of The Moles and a Knight of Malta for 20 years. He will be deeply missed by all who k
 GERBER-Charles. September 6, 2002. Predeceased by his cherished wife Dorothy (Mirsky), beloved father of Elaine (Saul) Rosenbluth and Mel (Marilyn) Gerber, proud grandfather of Seth Rosenbluth, Jill (Rick) Zellmer, Beth, Sandy (Marta) and Eric Gerber, very proud greatgrandfather of Jake Zel
 GREENE-Larry (Lawrence Howard). 50, suddenly on September 6, in the Persian Gulf. Award winning photo journalist. Loving husband of Diana. Spectacular father to Clayton and Connor of Agoura Hills, CA. Cherished son of the late Saul Greene and Florence Greene. Beloved brother of Alison Green
 LANGE-Henry. Died peacefully on September 5, 2002, in Paris, France. Survived by his wife Zho Si. His passion and spirit live on in all those who knew and loved him, and he will be always be remembered by family and friends around the world. With love, Victoria and Marc W. Martin Francine, 
 LONDINO-William. On September 5th, 2002. Beloved husband of Maggie. Devoted nephew of Arnold, Christine, Rose and Rita. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday 7-9 PM and Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass o
 ORENSTEIN-Dr. Fred. Condolences to wife Rose and sons Jack, Bruce and Jamie, and their families, and to Henry, our dear friend, on the passing of their beloved husband, father and brother. A survivor of the Holocaust, and a gentleman and healer of the old school. Fred Orenstein left a legac
 Cardinal Lucas Moreira Neves, one of Latin America's leading Roman Catholic figures, who was once considered a contender to succeed Pope John Paul II, died in Rome on Sunday. He was 76. A conservative yet conciliatory voice, Cardinal Neves was the most prominent Catholic primate in 
 John P. Frank, a lawyer and law professor who helped shape the argument in the landmark Brown v. Board of Education case and represented Ernesto Miranda in the United States Supreme Court, died on Saturday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 84. Mr. Frank advised Thurgood Marshall of the NA
 ADLER-George B. Of Harrison, NY and Boca Raton, FL died on September 9, 2002 at 76. Beloved husband of Marion, cherished father of Gary, Andre' and Roger and his wife Vicki, proud grandfather of Jason and Spencer. A native of Switzerland, who graduated from the top Swiss business school wit
 BLAUSTEIN-Martin L. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Scott, Sharon, Robert, Michael. Cherished grandfather. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at Temple Bet Am Shalom, 295 Soundview Ave., White Plains, NY. Donations can be made to the Lions Club of Greenwich or the Rabbis Goodwill Fund
 GIULIANI-Helen. The faculty and staff of the New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Helen Giuliani, the mother of our great friend and supporter, Rudolph Giuliani. Helen gave her son a love of learning, a dedication to our city, state and country, and a love of children. R
 HAMPTON-Lionel. The New York Republican County Committee will greatly miss its treasured friend and longtime Vice Chairman, Lionel Hampton. For 40 years, we have been blessed by Lionel's charm, devotion, and irrepressible goodness. He brought enduring music into the hearts of all those he t
 MESTEL-Elias, 89, of Pompano Beach, FL, formerly of Middle Village, NY passed away September 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Lynn, Andrea and Karen. Grandfather of Ted, Rebecca, Willa, Owen, Blair, Matthew and Peter. Beloved brother and uncle. 2nd Ltd. in the Army in 
 Uzi Gal, the Israeli armaments expert who invented the widely used 9-millimeter submachine gun called the Uzi, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 79. He had cancer, Agence France-Presse reported. In 1976, Mr. Gal retired from Israel's government-owned weapo
 Ed Warner, who was a star forward for the City College basketball team that won the National Invitation Tournament and N.C.A.A. tournament championships in 1950 but shattered his career in the point-shaving scandal that engulfed the game, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 73.     
 Henri Rol-Tanguy, one of France's most decorated Resistance heroes, who organized the popular uprising against the German occupation of Paris and, a few days later, joined the Gaullist general, Philippe Leclerc, in taking the surrender of German forces stationed here, died Sunday. He was 94
 ALTCHEK - Salvator. Be loved doctor who practiced medicine the old-fashioned way for over 60 years in Brooklyn Heights. He will be dearly missed by his family, Phyllis and Al, and Susan and Alberto; his grandchildren, Amelia, Kristina, Alessandra and Gian Paolo; his five great - grandchildr
 ATWOOD-Douglas John. 52, of AIDS, in New York City, on July 20th, 2002. Born April 18, 1950, Manchester, NH. Poet, sober adventurer, friend. Civil servant, AIDS activist, political agitator, volunteer and advocate for prisoners and homeless. Lehman College graduate. Vocational rehab special
 FADER-Carl. Loved and loving husband of Claire. Father of Vicki, Nancy and Michael, Jay and Carolyn. Poppy of Danny, Kenny, Scott, Heather, Alison and Dana. He was the best. FADER-Carl. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Carl Fader, and ex
 GIULIANI-Helen. I offer condolences to Rudolph Giuliani and his entire family. Claire Shulman       
 LEON-David, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of our Past President (1969-1971) and revered colleague of over five decades. A wonderful Hazzan, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of the Jewish community of Bridgeport, Connectucut for over forty years
 PETERS - James J. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of James J. Peters, the Executive Director of the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association. For the past eighteen years, the Association has generously supp
 SCHWARTZ - William. The Board of Governors and members of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL., acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, William Schwartz. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Marlene and their family. Elliott Solomon, President     
 SILBERMAN-Dr. Curt C. Funeral services for Dr. Curt Silberman of West Orange, NJ will be today at 1:15pm at Temple B'nai Abraham, 300 E Northfield Ave, Livingston, NJ. For information, Bernheim Apter Kreitzman Funeral Home. Dr. Silberman, a lifelong leader of European and American Jewish co
 YOUNG-Daniel. All of us at Gilston Electric will miss our dear friend, Danny. He was a dedicated leader, co-worker and loyal employee. We express our deepest sympathy to Karen and their family. We miss him already.       
 Johnny Unitas, who rose from a $6-a-game sandlot player to become perhaps professional football's greatest quarterback, died yesterday in suburban Baltimore. He was 69. Unitas had a heart attack while working out at a physical therapy center in Timonium, Md., Vivienne Stearns-Elliot
 ALTCHEK - Salvator, M.D. Tio Salvator was a kind and gentle man who treated three generations of patients with wisdom and compassion. To his family and friends he was amazingly generous, witty and good. Douglas Altchek, MD and Family       
 BAINTON - Robert Lewis. (President/Ownwer of the former B & B Beverage, Long Branch, N.J.) Died September 10th, 2002 at St. Barnabas Hospice, Long Branch, N.J. He was predeceased by his daughter, Mary Joy Bainton and his brother John W. Bainton. He is survived by his wife Florence Joy Baint
 CUDDIHY-Arthur B. Jr. On September 8, 2002, of Florida, formerly of Rye, NY. Beloved father of John B. Cuddihy of Coral Gables, FL and Christopher A. Cuddihy of Venice, CA. Loving brother of Mary Alice O'Conor of Point Verde, FL. Cherished grandfather of Claire and John B. Cuddihy, Jr. and 
 DOLGOFF - Deborah. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its distinguished Administrative Committee member Sanford Lurie. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 GOLDBERG-Raymond. On September 11, 2002. The love of Estelle (Sunkin), devoted father to Andrea and Robyn. Adoring Grandpa of Rachel and Ashley. Brother to Joe, Sidney and Sanford. Ray cared about everyone and everything. He will forever live in all our hearts. Services Friday 11:45 A.M. at
 KOPPEL-Herbert. Age 79 on September 11, 2002 in Atlanta after a long illness. Survived by his wife Charlotte (nee Spieler), sons James and Charles. Daughter Nancy Cohen. Sister Marjorie Moses and two grandchildren. Graveside service Friday September 13, 1 P.M. at New Mount Carmel Cemetery, 
 McBRYDE-Thomas Henry. Died at his home in Gainsville, FL, August 31st. Survived by his wife Barbara W. McBryde, daughter Elise McBryde, sons William and John McBryde, and grandson Evan Maloney. A memorial service will be held at Christ's Church, Rye, NY on Friday, October 4th at 11 AM.     
 ROSEN-Samuel Robert. September 10, 2002, beloved brother of Mara Gleckel, devoted uncle of Dr. Louis Gleckel, Larry Gleckel, and Lee deLahunta, and great uncle of Jareb and Emma Gleckel, Maximillian deLahunta. He managed the family business, Federal Pump Corporation of New York for many yea
 SILBERMAN-Curt C. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (Claims Conference) deeply mourns the passing of Dr. Curt C. Silberman, a veteran member of our Board and Chairman of major committees. Since the advent of Hitler to power in 1933 Dr. Silberman devoted his entire lif
 SINGER-Witten Russ, 35. on September 10, 2002. Beloved son of Cynthia Russ and Arnold M. Singer, stepson of Phyllis B. Singer, adored brother of Lisa N. Kelly, Susan J. Kerschner, Richard W. Catlin, Jacqueline E. Singer, Elizabeth C. Young, and Reagan M. Singer. Favorite uncle of nine and i
 VITKIN-Robert. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Tom Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 YABLON-Philip, DDS, MPH, PhD. Suddenly on September 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Susan and Jeffrey Yuhas and Paul and Jill Yablon. Dear brother of Mildred and Larry Maslow. Devoted grandfather of Sophie, Isabelle, Nicole and Stephen. Memorial Service, Friday, Septe
 Cliff Gorman, a stage, film and television actor who won a Tony Award for his dynamic portrayal of Lenny Bruce in the Broadway play ''Lenny,'' died last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Gayle, his only survivor. In ''Lenny,
 ABER-Samuel of New Rochelle, died September 11, 2002. He was 90. Born August 12, 1912 in the Bronx to Charles and Fannie (nee Schwartz) Aber. He married Mildred Eigenmacht on November 26, 1939. In addition to his wife he is survived by his children Glenn, Charles and Arlyne McClancy, ten gr
 BECKER-Otto. The Riverdale Mental Health Association expresses its profound sorrow on the death of Otto Becker, our former treasurer, Board member and loyal supporter. We will miss his wise counsel and friendship. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Marie-Jeanne Gwertzman Presi
 DANZIG-Aaron L. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 1361 Madison Avenue mourn the passing of Aaron L. Danzig, our founding president. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Gwen and family.       
 GOLDBERG-Raymond. On September 11, 2002. The love of Estelle (Sunkin), devoted father to Andrea and Robyn. Adoring Grandpa of Rachel and Ashley. Brother to Joe, Sidney and Sanford. Ray cared about everyone and everything. He will forever live in all our hearts. Services Friday 11:45 A.M. at
 MITCHELL-Bruce W., in New York on September 10 of complications from lung cancer. Born in Chicago, B.A. and M.B.A. from Stanford University, he spent the majority of his career with Bank of America, retiring as the general auditor of the corporation. In retirement he served on the boards of
 ROTNER-Jacob. On September 12th, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia, cherished father of Kenneth and the late Ronald, dear father-in-law to Carol, loving brother to Phyllis Pearce, Pearl Lawrence and the late Dora Plasse. Adoring grandfather to Annie. He will be deeply missed by famil
 STERN-Boris. S/A/R Academy extends condolences to our longtime friend and supporter Joel Stern; to our former parent Roberta Horowitz and to Jaqui Endelson and to Russell Stern upon the loss of their beloved father. May the entire family find comfort in his memory. Jack C. Bendheim, Preside
 STOLL-Leo, 89. On September 10, 2002. He will be missed by his devoted loving family and friends. Funeral services Sunday 11am at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. For information Zion Memorial Chapel, 914-381-1809.       
 YABLON-Philip, DDS, MPH, PhD. Suddenly on September 11, 2002. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Susan and Jeffrey Yuhas and Paul and Jill Yablon. Dear brother of Mildred and Larry Maslow. Devoted grandfather of Sophie, Isabelle, Nicole and Stephen. Memorial Service, Friday, Septe
 Peter R. Barton, who worked closely with John C. Malone to found Tele-Communications Inc., which grew into one of the nation's largest cable operators, died at his home on Sunday of stomach cancer. He was 51 and lived in Denver. Mr. Barton had a diverse career that began in politics
 Rolf Fjelde, one of the leading translators of Ibsen's plays into English, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 76. Mr. Fjelde was also a teacher, poet and playwright, but he was best known for his work with Ibsen. His fluent and authoritative translations of 12 major
 Wesley Naylor, a creator and composer of the long-running gospel musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing'' as well as two sequels, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 44. Mr. Naylor was found dead in his apartment. The cause is still under investigation, said his brother Wendell,
 Philippe Wamba, the son of a Congolese rebel leader, who wrote about his family's complex and often disorienting dual existence as both Africans and Americans, died Wednesday in a car accident in Kenya while doing research for a book. He was 31. Mr. Wamba, who had lived in Boston fo
 ADLER-George R. The Faculty and Staff of The MarieJosee and Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health and The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of George R. Adler. A thoughtful and compassionate benefa
 BECKER-Otto L., 82. On September 11 after a long illness, peacefully in his sleep. Beloved husband of Lorraine, loving father of Nancy and her husband Edward Reckford, Jim and his wife Barbara. Adoring grandfather of Jacob and Louie Reckford, Samantha and Lila Becker, loving step-father to 
 FORREST-Leonard. We at Congregation B'nai Yisrael mourn for our longtime friend. We will miss his energy, warmth and love. We share our sorrow with Margi and the members of their family. Barby K. Siegel, President Rabbi Douglas E. Krantz Rabbi Seth M. Limmer, Cantor Miriam Eskenasy       
 GALLAGHER - Robert. On September 10, 2002 in Plainfield, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Engel Gallagher. Father of Liese Gallagher Howarth of Ashfield, MA, Martha S. Gallagher and Paula Gallagher Abeles, both of Washington, D.C. Grandfather to Joseph Howarth and Winthro
 HAMMELBACHER-Hans M. Beloved husband of Hella. Father of Ralph and Frank. Grandfather of Jill and father-in-law of Faith and Janet. Passed away peacefully on September 13, 2002 at the age of 91 after a brief illness. He will be remembered for his devotion to his family, for his abiding frie
 MITCHELL-Bruce W. The staff and board of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/ New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of our friend and Board member Bruce W. Mitchell. Bruce's passionate concern, clear headed analysis, and unwavering belief in our mission have made this a better organ
 NOULAS-Arthur M. On Friday, Sept. 13, 2002. Beloved husband of Sophie (nee Safiol) for 50 years. Loving father of Alexis and Basil Livanos, Joyce and Paul Cutrone, Evan and Chrisia Noulas. Loving grandfather of Peter, William, Katherine, Arthur, Andrew, Carolyn, Sophia and Arthur. He was an
 PHILLIPS-William. Editor-inchief of Partisan Review for 68 years. A beacon of light in the intellectual world, he was honest, discerning, uncompromising. He made PR required reading for decades for anyone interested in the issues and culture of our time. Our condolences to his loving wife, 
 SINZER-Dr. Joseph F. On September 11, 2002, his 90th birthday. We will remember and cherish always his passion for life and learning, his extraordinary mind, and his kind and gentle spirit. Evelyn, John, Joseph, Jessica, Jacob and Hailley       
 VIEHMANN - Theodore E. Died Thursday, September 12, 2002 at age 86 of natural causes. A native of Brooklyn, NY, Ted was a Chief in the US Navy during World War II, serving in both Europe and the Pacific and was a boilermaker for the city of New York Dept. of Sanitation until his retirement 
 William Phillips, the co-founder and longtime editor of Partisan Review, the forum for the brilliant and contentious stable of writers who became known as the New York Intellectuals, died yesterday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 94. Partisan Review's circulation never exceeded
 Jerry Boyd, a boxing trainer whose search for literary recognition ended two years ago when he published a book of short fiction under the name F. X. Toole, died on Sept. 2 of complications after heart surgery at a hospital in Torrance, Calif. He was 72. Mr. Boyd's picaresque life a
 ABRAHAM-Alexander. The President, Board of Trustees, staff, and extended family of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute mourn the passing on August 25 of our esteemed friend, colleague, and benefactor, Alexander Abraham. Mr. Abraham's ardent belief in the possibility of progress in childhood cancer
 BRAUN-Richard L., 73. On September 6th. Cherished husband of Doris, loving father of Joseph and Margaret and of Richard Cohen. Beloved brother of Alan and the late Robert. He gave of himself to all, respecting each person's uniqueness. His love for music filled our lives. A memorial service
 DERFLER-Hyman. Age 83, on September 13, 2002, of Wyckoff, NJ. He was a former President of Leslie Fay Dresses. Survived by his beloved wife Peggy, sons Philip and Richard, and two granddaughters. A private family service was held.       
 HAMMELBACHER - Hans. Congregation Habonim mourns the passing of our beloved longtime member, Hans Hammelbacher. Hans served our synagogue for many years as an officer of the Board of Trustees, chair of the Ritual Committee and editor of our monthly Bulletin. Hans was a true gentleman; he wa
 HOROWITZ-Dr. Arnold. Of Tamarac, FL, on September 3, 2002. A compassionate, practicing physician for 40 years. Adored husband of Luise. Beloved father of Mavis, Diane and Eve and loving father-in-law of The Three Michaels, loving stepchildren Sandy, Mark and Cheryl. Dear brother of Bill and
 LASKER-Gabriel Ward. 90, of Beverly Hills, Michigan, died August 27, of complications of kidney disease. Dr. Lasker was Emeritus Professor of Anatomy and Adjunct Professor of Anthropology at Wayne State University in Detroit. He was known for his work expanding the study of surnames and ped
 NOULAS-Arthur M. On Friday, Sept. 13, 2002. Beloved husband of Sophie (nee Safiol) for 50 years. Loving father of Alexis and Basil Livanos, Joyce and Paul Cutrone, Evan and Chrisia Noulas. Loving grandfather of Peter, William, Katherine, Arthur, Andrew, Carolyn, Sophia and Arthur. He was an
 PHILLIPS-William. Editor-inchief of Partisan Review for 68 years. A beacon of light in the intellectual world, he was honest, discerning, uncompromising. He made PR required reading for decades for anyone interested in the issues and culture of our time. Our condolences to his loving wife, 
 ROSEN-Samuel Robert. September 10, 2002, beloved brother of Mara Gleckel, devoted uncle of Dr. Louis Gleckel, Larry Gleckel, and Lee deLahunta, and great uncle of Jareb and Emma Gleckel, Maximillian deLahunta. He managed the family business, Federal Pump Corporation of New York for many yea
 ROTNER-Jack. Our beloved brother will remain in our hearts forever. His love, dependability, reliability and devotion can never be replaced. Pearl and Phyllis       
 SINGER-Larry. 62, passed away Thursday, September 12, 2002, at his home, surrounded by his loving family. Cherished husband of Barbara (nee Radick), proud father of David (Eva), Jonathan (Alice) and Luke. Adored by his sister Myrna (Stephen) Papadopoulos, niece Eleni (T.J. and Anthony) Lima
 SINZER-Dr. Joseph F. On September 11, 2002, his 90th birthday. We will remember and cherish always his passion for life and learning, his extraordinary mind, and his kind and gentle spirit. Evelyn, John, Joseph, Jessica, Jacob and Hailley       
 STAHL-Esther. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Esther Stahl, beloved mother-in-law of our esteemed colleague and friend, Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D., a longtime member of the Beth Israel medical staff and a former President of the Beth Israel
 VIEHMANN - Theodore E. Died Thursday, September 12, 2002 at age 86 of natural causes. A native of Brooklyn, NY, Ted was a Chief in the US Navy during World War II, serving in both Europe and the Pacific and was a boilermaker for the city of New York Dept. of Sanitation until his retirement 
 WALLACH-Milton Z., 81 years, on September 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Myra. Devoted father of Lorna Mann (Gene), Felice Freeman (Robert) and Jocelynn Wallach Hall (Robert). Loving grandfather of Adam, Zachary, Molly, Melissa, Brandon, Elliot, Austin and Chandler. His ingenuity and optimism
 COLLINS-Daniel Gerard. Died on June 16, 2002, at age 72 after a short illness. A memorial service in his honor will be held on Friday, Sept. 20, at 11 A.M. at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York City. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Daniel G. 
 MARGOLIN-Boris. He entered eternal life Rosh Hashanah 5745. A loving man and a learned Jew. Dorothy       
 Salvator Altchek, known for 67 years as the $5 doctor to the melting pot of Brooklyn, especially the poorer residents of affluent Brooklyn Heights, died on Tuesday. He was 92. He continued to work until two months ago, but gave up house calls five years ago. He delivered thousands o
 Dr. Orvan W. Hess, an obstetrician and gynecologist who pioneered the development of the fetal heart monitor and was instrumental in the first successful clinical use of penicillin, died on Sept. 6 at Yale-New Haven Hospital, his family said. He was 96. The fetal heart monitor has b
 Dr. Robert E. Apfel, a professor and engineer who designed pioneering studies that examined the physics of liquids and saw his results applied to areas as diverse as the manufacture of cosmetics and the cleanup of environmental oil spills, died Aug. 1 in New Haven. He was 59. The ca
 The Rev. John C. Harper, who for three decades was the rector of St. John's Episcopal Church on Lafayette Square across from the White House, known as the Church of the Presidents, died on Friday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.     
 COX-William W. Lawyer for the United Nations and former resident of Manhattan, died August 18, 2002 at The Quadrangle in Haverford, PA. He was 88. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University, he earned a law degree from Columbia University in 1939, where he was an editor of the La
 FRIEDMANN - Francis G. Died peacefully on Sunday, September 15, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife Rosalie Kennedy Friedmann, five children, Chris LeVeen, Jane Friedmann, Ann Schara, C. Edward Friedmann, Mary Leech and 11 grandchildren. Two brothers, Jack and Paul Friedmann, and one si
 Aaron L. Danzig, a lawyer who served as counsel to the losing side in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, the landmark 1938 Supreme Court case that limited the power of the federal courts, died in New York City on Sept. 10. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Until recently, he had been a 
 David Grene, whose translations of ancient Greek spoke with such clarity that the writer Saul Bellow suggested he was on a first-name basis with Sophocles and Aristophanes, died on Sept. 10 in Chicago. He was 89. Mr. Grene's two residences reflected his seemingly separate lives: for
 Howard Thomas Odum, a founder of the modern science of ecology and an influential voice in the restoration of the Everglades, died on Wednesday at a hospice here. He was 78. The cause was cancer, The Gainesville Sun said. In six decades as a professor of environmental scienc
 ARMSTRONG-John Kenaston, 73, of Bloomfield, CT., and Chatham, Massachusetts died on September 12, 2002. Former Executive Vice President of CIGNA Corporation and President of CIGNA Investment Group. Survived by his wife Katharine (Kipp), daughter Leigh Hovey and her husband David, son Kipp A
 CAMPBELL-Donald L., 98. Of Bay Head, New Jersey formerly of Short Hills, NJ died September 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Elizabeth (Duff) Campbell, loving father of Michael Duff Campbell and Mrs. J. Morgan Macom. Also survived by eight grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Visiting hou
 dePLAS-Romain Jean Bernard. On September 14, 2002 at age 31. Beloved son of Pierre dePlas and Roberta Gootrad. Devoted brother of Joanna dePlas. Dearest grandson of Violet Butler Ledger. Memorial service on Thursday, September 19, at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, Madison Avenue at
 FLYNN-Charles P. Of Patterson, N.Y. Died on Saturday, September 14, 2002 at home. He was 58. He is survived by his wife Denise and son Sean. Calling hours today, 2-4 and 79 P.M. at The Dwyer Funeral Home, 23 South St, Patterson, N.Y. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Wednesday, 
 GREENBERG-J.J. (Jonathan Joseph). The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of J.J. Greenberg, the executive director of the Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation, an emerging leader in the Jewish community, and an heir to a family
 LUCKOM-Ben. 91. Died on September 14, 2002. Devoted to his family, he was the beloved husband for 61 years of Edith who died just one month ago; adored father of Bram Luckom and Fran Luckom - Nurnberg; dear brother of Irving Luckom; loved father-in-law of Debbie Luckom & Ronald Nurnberg; an
 MAGGENTI-Henry Max. A retired Air Force major, restaurateur and political consultant, died peacefully at his home in San Francisco, July 20. He was 81 years old and died of natural causes. He is survived by his ex-wife Roberta Maggenti of San Francisco, his daughters Maria Maggenti of New Y
 MAHER-John F., 72. Of Mahwah, NJ and Sag Harbor, NY on September 15, 2002 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Barbara. Beloved father of John of Hoboken, NJ and Paul of Indian Head, MD. A jazz drummer at the start and end of his career, he also wrote for Metronome and Billboard; he wro
 MANDLER-Ronald E. ,68, of Becket, MA. Ron was a very special man who left this world how he lived in it, with dignity and gentle humor. He is survived by his wife Barbara, his sons Rick and Drew, his daughters-in-law Paula and Sloan, and grandchildren Charlotte, Henry and Brett. Services We
 REA-David Burke. Of Sag Harbor died September 15. He was 75 years old. Born on October 8, 1926 to Thomas & Florence Rea (nee Burke). He married Jacqueline RouxDelimal on December 23, 1950. A lawyer, he was a partner at Wilkie Farr & Gallagher. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his 
 TANNENBAUM-Joseph L., 77, died suddenly on September 15, 2002. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Dorothy (nee Simon), beloved father of Richard, Gary and Ronald. Grandfather of Andre, Dylan, Chloe, Sam and Luke. Brother of Eleanor Rosenbaum. He will be remembered for his kindness to a
 COLLINS-Daniel Gerard. Died on June 16, 2002, at age 72 after a short illness. A memorial service in his honor will be held on Friday, Sept. 20, at 11 A.M. at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York City. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Daniel G. 
 Tanjore Viswanathan, a flutist and teacher who was one of the most influential south Indian musicians in the United States, died on Sept. 10 in Hartford. He was 75 and lived in Middletown, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for Wesleyan University, where he taugh
 BISCO - Leonard Gerard. Passed away peacefully on September 11, 2002 in Saint Paul Les Trois Chateaux, France at the age of 99. Leonard Bisco is remembered as a prominent New York City attorney whose firm, Newman and Bisco, was involved in the merger of Manufacturer's Trust Co. and Hanover 
 COHEN-Abraham. On September 17th, 2002 at age 89. Beloved husband of the late Ann. Cherished father of Sharon and Eileen and sons-inlaw Mickey and Bob. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Renata, Jonathan, Jeremy and Jessica, Rachel and Rob. Founding member of Lake Success Jewish Center and d
 dePLAS-Romain Jean Bernard. On September 14, 2002 at age 31. Beloved son of Pierre dePlas and Roberta Gootrad. Devoted brother of Joanna dePlas. Dearest grandson of Violet Butler Ledger. Memorial service on Thursday, September 19, at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, Madison Avenue at
 EMANUELSON - Jack. A painter, antiquarian, francophile extraordinaire died on September 11, 2002 after a lengthy and courageous battle with liver cancer and hepatitis C. A graduate of the School of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Jack painted & lived with a vitality and style far more exoti
 FLYER-Gregory, 78. Died Saturday in Scottsdale, AZ. Born July 6, 1924 in Brooklyn. World War II vet. He owned San Filippo Liquor Store in Bensonhurst. Survived by children Eric, Glenn, Marvin, Ilana; sister Xenia Fane; three grandchildren. Services today at Green Acres Mortuary Scottsdale, 
 GREENBERG - Jonathan. The staff and leadership of the 92nd Street Y and of its Makor/Steinhardt Center express profound grief by the death of J.J. (Jonathan Joseph) Greenberg, executive director of Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation and a founder of Makor. We extend our deepest condo
 GREGORY-Julian A. Of Wilton, Connecticut died September 16. He was a graduate of Princeton University, Class of 1935 and University of Michigan Law School, Class of 1938. Son of the late Julian A. Gregory and Virginia Evans Gregory, he is survived by his sister, Virginia Perry, his wife Mar
 LIPSKY-Mortimer. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Co., P.C., mourn the passing of our esteemed partner and founder. His intellect, his passion for knowledge and learning, his resolve and determination, was an inspiration to all. He so ably taught and guided us. This compassionate
 SCHWARTZ-Stanley. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Schwartz, beloved father of our dear friend Eric Schwartz. Eric and his wife, Erica, a member of the UJA-Federation Board of Directors and one of the chairs of the Manhat
 TANNENBAUM-Joseph L., 77, died suddenly on September 15, 2002. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Dorothy (nee Simon), beloved father of Richard, Gary and Ronald. Grandfather of Andre, Dylan, Chloe, Sam and Luke. Brother of Eleanor Rosenbaum. He will be remembered for his kindness to a
 UNGER-Martin. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Frances and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 WANKOWICZ-Andrew Henry. Died suddenly on September 16th at age 82. Beloved husband of Helen, devoted father of Alexandra, and father-in-law of William Allen. His daughter Erika predeceased him. Andrew was born on February 6, 1920 in Poznan, Poland into a prominent noble family, the son of t
 WEINSHALL-Ruth. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Ruth Weinshall, beloved motherin-law of our dear and devoted friend, The Honorable Charles E. Schumer, Senior
 WIENER-Paul Lester Jr. On September 13, 2002 at his home in Manhattan. A 7th generation New Yorker, recipient of the Bronze Star during the Philippines campaign of World War II, host of numerous radio shows including WNEW AM's ''Make Believe Ballroom'', and sales executive. Paul had a passi
 WOLF-John Curtis III. A resident of Brooklyn Heights, died after a long illness on September 11, 2002, at his summer home in Virginia. He was 66. Mr. Wolf was a native of Martinsburg, WV and was a graduate of Shepherd College. He studied under Paul Baker at Baylor University and began his t
 Dr. Robert H. Kirschner, a forensic pathologist whose work helped convict officials from the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda of genocide in cases heard by United Nations international criminal tribunals, died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 61. The cause of death was complications of canc
 Sidney Epstein, a Washington journalist who covered or supervised coverage of news events including the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and the 1968 riots that devastated large parts of Washington, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 81 and had Alzheimer's disease, said his n
 Donald L. Campbell, the last of the four engineers who, as World War II began, invented a cheaper and more efficient process to ''crack'' large hydrocarbons into smaller molecules useful for things like fuel and plastics, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Brick, N.J. He was 98. 
 ANKER-Donald J., M.D. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL., formerly of New York City. Loving husband and best friend of Carol. Devoted father of Elisabeth and Jonathan. Cherished son of Lillian and the late Seymour. A compassionate and well liked anesthesiologist in practice for 25 years, he was a trul
 CHERN-Steven. September 17, 2002. With his smile and gentle manner he was a lion on the court. We will forever miss our fun-loving, loyal and caring friend. Paul, Mike, Dick, Larry and Chester       
 DALTON-George E. On September 17, 2002 of The Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, Inc. Born in Floral Park, NY on July 13, 1923. Graduate of St. Francis Xavier High School Class of 1941 and Syracuse University Class of 1948. Three-and-a-half years in the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II. 
 dePLAS - Romain. Words cannot express our grief over the loss of such a warm, talented, and engaging person whose love, devotion and brilliance brought so much to our lives. How he will be missed. May he rest in peace and his endearing memory help sustain his family and other loved ones. Ro
 GREENBERG - J.J. The Board, Faculty and Staff of the Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem and the American Pardes Foundation, Inc. mourn the tragic and untimely passing of J.J. Greenberg, son of our dear friends and distinguished faculty members Yitz and Blu Greenberg, brother-in
 HARRIS-Bernard H. Died quietly on September 18, 2002 at age 95. Uncle Bernie was an inspiration to our family in countless ways. He will be missed by all who knew him. We wish to express our especial appreciation to each and every employee of The Hebrew Home at Riverdale for the kindness an
 LIPSKY-Mortimer. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Co., P.C., mourn the passing of our esteemed partner and founder. His intellect, his passion for knowledge and learning, his resolve and determination, was an inspiration to all. He so ably taught and guided us. This compassionate
 MACK-Rodger. The Syracuse University family mourns the passing of a dedicated teacher, renowned sculptor and respected friend and colleague. He began his 34 years at SU in 1968 as a professor of sculpture, and went on to serve as the first director of the School of Art and Design in the Col
 ORRACA-John Jr. Beloved father to Marie and Lisa. Husband of Gloria. Passed away September 15, 2002. We will miss him and mourn his loss deeply. Memorial services to be held Friday, September 20 at the United Nations Chapel. In lieu of flowers please send a donation to City Meals on Wheels,
 ROOT-Charles E. (Ned). Died September 17, 2002. His family and friends will hold a celebration of love at the Hotel Wales, 1295 Madison Ave (between 92nd and 93rd Sts), Sunday, September 22nd, 35PM in the Pied Piper Room.       
 SACKS-Murray M., 84. On September 9, 2002. Cherished husband of Lila for 59 years. Loving father and father-inlaw of Meryl Sacks and Ricka and Yoel Rak. Beloved grandfather of Ariel, Benjamin, and Carmi. Also survived by his dear sister, Rose Margolies. A decorated naval officer, he service
 THRUSH-Donald Bell. Born in Brooklyn, NY on November 19, 1918, he died in Vero Beach, FL. on September 15, 2002. He served in W.W. II as Captain of the 464th Anti-Aircraft Battalion in China-Burma-India. He owned Thrush Press 1946-1988 and served the printing industry through local and nati
 Peter W. Stroh, a former chairman of the Stroh Brewing Company, died on Tuesday at his home in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. He was 74. The cause was brain cancer, said Mr. Stroh's cousin, John Stroh III. Mr. Stroh was a philanthropist and conservationist whose family fortune w
 Bob Hayes, a pigeon-toed sprinter who broke world records, won two gold medals in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and then became a feared pass receiver for 11 seasons in the National Football League, died Wednesday night in his hometown of Jacksonville, Fla. He was 59. The cause was compli
 Derek Davies, an editor of the Far Eastern Economic Review for 25 years who built the magazine into a major source of news and comment on the region despite his love-hate relationship with its prickly rulers, died on Sept. 15 in Antibes. He was 71 and lived in the south of France. T
 BARKIN-Jesse H. Passed away September 19, 2002 at age 99. Beloved and loving husband of Ruth for over 73 years. Loving father of Elyse Rabin Barkin and Stephen Barkin, caring-father-in law of Madeline. Adoring grandfather of Lynne Cooke, Julie Gans Cray, Dr. Jeffrey Barkin and Dr. Elizabeth
 DALTON-George E. On September 17, 2002 of The Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, Inc. Born in Floral Park, NY on July 13, 1923. Graduate of St. Francis Xavier High School Class of 1941 and Syracuse University Class of 1948. Three-and-a-half years in the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II. 
 GREENBERG - Jonathan (J.J.) Kolot: The Center for Jewish Women's and Gender Studies mourns the tragic loss of J. J., who lived his life devoted to equality, learning, joy, and tikkun olam. We extend our sympathies to our friend and advisor, Blu and to Yitz, Moshe, Abbie, David, Mindy, Debor
 MOSES-Emile. On Sept. 13, 2002. Beloved husband of Hannah for 60 years. Devoted father of Maureen, Janice, and Deborah. Adored grandfather of Joshua. A man of learning, intelligence, and sterling integrity. His life was wholly dedicated to the wellbeing of his family. He will live on in our
 NOVICK-Sylvan. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Pearl and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres.       
 SCOTT-Charles F. The Officers and Employees of the Riverside Memorial Chapels mourn with profound sorrow the passing of one of our mentors. Charlie was a beacon in funeral service, lighting the path along our 105 year journey, helping to bring us to where we are today. To his beloved wife, 
 STERN-Isaac. The Carnegie Hall family will never forget our Founder and President, Isaac Stern, for his humanity, his music and his heroic rescue of Carnegie Hall from the wrecker's ball. Countless lives have been touched by his music, energy, passion, and humor, for to be in his presence w
 Raúl Chibas, a former close associate of Fidel Castro who defected to Florida in an outboard motorboat in 1960 in order, he said, to ''make it known to the Cuban people that I did not like what their government is doing,'' died on Aug. 25 in a Miami hospital. He was 86 and lived in Miami. 
 Anthony L. Turkevich, a scientist who was the first to figure out what the moon is made of -- and who did it before astronauts brought back any samples -- died on Sept. 7 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 86. Before Neil Armstrong landed on the moon in 1969, NASA sent several unm
 Curtis Cuffie, a sculptor of elaborate and witty assemblages of objects found in the street who developed his technique during years of homelessness, was found dead on Sept. 13 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 47. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Carol Thompson, his c
 David Wisniewski, an artist who worked as a clown and shadow puppeteer before turning to cut paper and children's books, died on Sept. 11 at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., after a brief illness. He was 49 and lived in Monrovia, Md. He used his layered cut-paper technique to grea
 Karl L. Brown, a pioneer in the development of compact linear accelerators used for cancer treatment, died on Aug. 29 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif. The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he was an emeritus professor of ap
 BARKIN-Jesse H. Passed away September 19, 2002 at age 99. Beloved and loving husband of Ruth for over 73 years. Loving father of Elyse Rabin Barkin and Stephen Barkin, caring-father-in law of Madeline. Adoring grandfather of Lynne Cooke, Julie Gans Cray, Dr. Jeffrey Barkin and Dr. Elizabeth
 HALLE-Dr. Robert. Of London, England on September 20. Born Nuremberg, Germany, 1914. Loving and devoted husband of Edna. Beloved father of Margaret Sinclair (Walter), David Halle (Louise Mirrer), and Judith Afia (David). Doting and cherished grandfather to Julian, Debra, Emma, Philip, Carla
 MILLER-Milton. The Board of Directors and staff of the Brevoort East acknowledge with great sadness the passing of Milton Miller, the Treasurer of the Cooperative for many years. His intellect, experience and guidance were greatly appreciated by the building and he will be greatly missed. W
 SABERSKI-Dr. Eugene. Died at home September 19, 2002. Loving husband of the late Norma Saberski. Devoted father of Jean Rosen, Neda Birbrower and Lloyd. Also survived by Jay Rosen, Barry Birbrower, Dale Saberski and nine grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Loving brother of Ruth Gold
 STEIN-Bernard. Age 82. Died September 20, 2002. Devoted husband of Peggy Lee Stein. Loving father of Lynn Igel and Robert Stein. Beloved Papa to Brian Stein, Leon Igel, Craig Stein and Bradley Igel. Like a father to daughter-in-law to Jacqueline Stein and son-in-law Anthony Igel. Brother-in
 STERN-Isaac. The Carnegie Hall family will never forget our Founder and President, Isaac Stern, for his humanity, his music and his heroic rescue of Carnegie Hall from the wrecker's ball. Countless lives have been touched by his music, energy, passion, and humor, for to be in his presence w
 Sir Robert Wilson, a British astrophysicist who helped develop an early orbiting observatory that provided numerous insights into celestial bodies as humble as comets and as spectacular as supernovas, died on Sept. 2 in Chelmsford, England. He was 75. The cause of death was not disc
 BARKIN-Jesse H. Passed away September 19, 2002 at age 99. Beloved and loving husband of Ruth for over 73 years. Loving father of Elyse Rabin Barkin and Stephen Barkin, caring-father-in law of Madeline. Adoring grandfather of Lynne Cooke, Julie Gans Cray, Dr. Jeffrey Barkin and Dr. Elizabeth
 BONEPARTH-Shepard. On September 9, at age 82, of West Palm Beach, late of Westchester and New York City. Predeceased by his wife Diane. Loving husband of Roslyn. Also survived by two sons and four grandsons. Graveside services were held September 12th.       
 COLLINS-J. Foster. Died September 4 in San Diego comforted by his wife, Lee, and three children. Foster was a gentle man, dedicated to his country and world peace. Services: September 23, San Diego and October 20, McLean, VA. Contact family at oceanworkers.com/JFC.       
 DRESSEL-Henry Francis. 88, of Marlboro, NJ, died September 20, 2002. Predeceased by his wife of 62 years, Rose Marie Valentine Dressel, in 2000. Survived by a daughter, Mrs. Diana Dressel Fradella of Morganville, NJ; three grandchildren, Dr. Henry Francis Fradella, Mrs. Camille Rose Fradell
 EDELSON-Allan J. September 14, 2002. Loving husband to Arlynne. Beloved dad to Brian and Lee. Devoted son to Ruthy. He was proud to have been part of Capital Cities Communication, Inc. for twenty years. We all mourn our loss. He will be missed by all who knew him. We love you, Big Al.      
 ESTRIN-Harvey. On September 21, 2002, after a sixmonth struggle with complications from surgery. Beloved wife of Trudy Kane; loving father of Glen, Mitchell and Nancy; dear brother of Morton; devoted grandfather of William. One of New York City's most respected studio musicians, he can be h
 FARRELL-Herman Daniel, Sr., passed away peacefully on September 18th, 2002 in Pembrook Pines, FL at the age of 92. Mr. Farrell is remembered throughout New York and Kingston, Jamaica, as a respected member of the business community for his work in the dress manufacturing industry and as an 
 FRANKEL-Irving. On September 20, 2002, 75, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, lost his three and a half year battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Miriam. Cherished father of Sheryl, Larry and Marc. Father-in-law to Faye and Laurie. Devoted ''Popi'' to Stefani, Steven, Corey a
 GELLER-Walter H., 78. Of Sarasota, FL. Died Sept. 13, 2002. He was born June 23, 1924 in NYC and moved to Sarasota two years ago from Piscataway, NJ. He was a textile executive and a member of The Fabric Salesman's Guild. He graduated from North Carolina State University. He was an Army Vet
 GIUNTA-John A. On September 19, 2002. Will be deeply missed by his companion of 27 years, Kathleen Dunn and their many friends. Donations in his memory may be made to St. Joseph's Indian School, Chamberlain, South Dakota 57326.       
 GREENBERG-J.J. On behalf of The Wexner Foundation and the Fellows and Alumni of the Wexner Graduate and Israel Fellowship programs, we mourn the untimely death of JJ Greenberg, son of our dear friends and colleagues, Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg. JJ's passionate commitment to Jewish life an
 JOHNSON-Edward D. (Ted). Book editor. Of Brattleboro, VT, and previously NYC and Brooklyn. Died Sunday, September 15, 2002, of lung cancer. Survived by his wife Veronica E. Johnson and their son Christopher B. Johnson.       
 KARP-Daniel S., 84. On September 18, 2002. The family he so loved includes Joyce W., Ellen, Jeff, Jody, and Eva Karp; Lee and Kevin Chisholm; Dick Esten; Ben, Abby and Dr. David Magnus; Lynn and Dr. Arnold Fenton, Dr. Phil and Charna Weisman. Dan's enthusiasm for life especially embraced th
 McVICKAR-H. Kane. On September 9, 2002 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Jane, loving brother of Malcolm and Harry, and stepfather of David P. Jamison. He graduated from St. Mark's School and Harvard. He served as a Captain in the U.S. Army Signal Corps. in World War II. He then was
 MILLER-Milton. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter, mourn the loss of Milton Miller, esteemed Board member, friend and family caregiver. Milton will be remembered as a gentle, kind, generous man whose dedication to the cause was unwavering. We extend
 NORTHROP-Johnston Filmer. Of Greenwich, CT and Nantucket, MA on September 19, 2002. After graduating from Yale in 1943, he served with distinction in WWII as head of a bomb disposal unit for the USNR in the Pacific. After the war he joined the CIA, serving in the US and Germany. He was then
 SOLTZ-Max G. Died peacefully on September 19, 2002 at age 94. Beloved husband of Christine. Loving father to Ivy, Billy and Mark. Doting grandfather to Nicole, Julia and Carolyn. Adored fatherin - law of Belinda and Yvonne. Cherished uncle of Karin and Robert. Loyal and devoted friend of ma
 STEIN-Bernard. Age 82. Died September 20, 2002. Devoted husband of Peggy Lee Stein. Loving father of Lynn Igel and Robert Stein. Beloved Papa to Brian Stein, Leon Igel, Craig Stein and Bradley Igel. Like a father to daughter-in-law Jacqueline Stein and son-in-law Anthony Igel. Brother-in-la
 WIESNER-Louis A. Passed away September 20, 2002, at the age of 86, in the company of his family. Loving husband of Elizabeth, father to Jonathan, Liz, Meg, and Andrew, grandfather to Britta and Spencer, and father-in-law to Mary Ann and Dave. He will be remembered as a committed humanitaria
 WOLF-John Curtis III. A resident of Brooklyn Heights, died after a long illness on September 11, 2002, at his summer home in Virginia. He was 66. Mr. Wolf was a native of Martinsburg, WV and was a graduate of Shepherd College. He studied under Paul Baker at Baylor University and began his t
 YANOWITZ-Ralph L. Died Thursday, September 19. Survived by sons, Ezra and Noah, and grandsons, Zachary and Nicholas. Affiliated with GUSCO. He was a man of intelligence and honor.       
 YOUNG-Eliot, M.D. Of Somers, N.Y., formerly of Milton, MA. On September 19, 2002. Dr. Young, who practice in Quincy, MA., was a cardiologist on the faculty of Harvard Medical School for many years. He was an attending physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital and the Deaconess Hospital in B
 STERN-Isaac. The Carnegie Hall family will never forget our Founder and President, Isaac Stern, for his humanity, his music and his heroic rescue of Carnegie Hall from the wrecker's ball. Countless lives have been touched by his music, energy, passion, and humor, for to be in his presence w
 Jack Potter, an innovative illustrator of the 1950's who suddenly dropped out of the field and achieved his widest influence as a teacher of drawing and conceptual thinking at the School of Visual Arts, died at his home in New York on Sept. 14. He was 74. The cause was a heart attac
 James Mitchell, a British author of espionage and suspense novels that were praised in the United States, died Sept. 15 in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, England. He was 76 and lived in Newcastle. The cause of death was not immediately disclosed. The critic Newgate Callendar wrote in 
 CODEY-Frank J. III. 60, of Bay Head, NJ, died Friday, September 20, 2002, at his residence. Devoted father of Frank J. Codey IV, Tres Codey Isa and Carey Ann Codey, beloved brother of Lawrence R. Codey, Carol Ann Lott, and Kate Manning and cherished grandfather of three and friend to many. 
 FEINER-Irwin S. September 19, 2002, in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. Feiner was born on April 6, 1927, in NYC. He was a Navy veteran in WWII. He was also a past Grand Master of the Ionic Lodge #       
 ROGER - Ronald. Passed away on Septemeber 20, 2002. He is survived by his beloved and loving wife Bobbie Koppel Roger, his children Robin Roger Goodspeed and son-inlaw Roger Goodspeed, of Larchmont, NY, and Randall Koppel Roger and daughterin-law Kathi Nuckolls Roger, of Boca Raton, FL, and
 SANDLER - Lewis N. Of South Orange, co-founder of the Sandler & Worth, Inc., retail carpet chain, died Saturday at the Inglemoor Care Center of Livingston. He was 82. A funeral service will be held today at 12:30 PM, in the Bernheim - Apter - Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short 
 Rafael Druian, a violinist and conductor who served as the concertmaster for the New York Philharmonic, the Cleveland Orchestra and other ensembles, died on Sept. 6 in Philadelphia. He was 80 and lived in Philadelphia. Mr. Druian was born in Vologda, Russia, and grew up in Havana, w
 Jan de Hartog, the Dutch novelist and playwright, the author of the 1951 Broadway hit ''The Fourposter,'' died Sunday in Houston. He was 88 and lived in Houston. Mr. de Hartog's early adventures at sea and his escape from the Nazis during World War II furnished him with material for
 BARKIN-Jesse H. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jesse H. Barkin, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. With his wife, Ruth, Jesse expressed an admirable commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest s
 BOSSY-George H. On September 18, 2002 at age 74. He was an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He is survived by his wife Sanda, three sons, three grandsons, two sisters and a brother. A memorial service will be held Saturday, September 28th, 3 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 10
 EISEN-Charles Jacob. On September 23, 2002, at home in Great Neck, NY. Alumnus of New York University, Certified Public Accountant. Captain in the U.S. Army during W.W. II. Beloved husband for 52 years of Sylvia K. Eisen, father of Amy Eisen Krupsky, Elizabeth Eisen and Claudia Eisen Flack,
 FRANKLIN-Gerald. 77 years old, died on September 21, 2002. He was a lawyer and writer. He is survived by his loving wife Roberta Franklin and his two children David and Leslie Franklin, and their fabulous grandson Parker Gerald Berger. Memorial service will be held on Friday, September 27, 
 GILBERT-Scott Brian, 47. On September 19, 2002. peacefully from complications of liver disease at Johns Hopkins. This native New Yorker touched and saved countless lives as an addiction treatment professional. Scott taught his children to love a good argument, to laugh, but most of all to b
 NATHANSON-Dr. Norman. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Dr. Norman Nathanson. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Paul M. Weltz, President Burton J. Esrig, Secretary       
 NEUMAN-Jack. Age 89, died September 21, 2002. Beloved and cherished husband of Anita. Loving father of Linda, Joe and Robert, and stepfather of Henry and Barbara. Cherished and loved Poppa to Susan, Jay, Mindi, Richard, Marilyn, Jon, Laura, Mark, Debbie, Jonathan, Danielle, Sharon, and Andr
 PERERA-George. The faculty, staff, and students of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons (P&S) mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Dr. George Perera. Dr. Perera graduated from P&S in 1937, and later served as professor of medicine and associate dean of the faculty of 
 ROBINSON - Reverend George A. III, (Hoppy), from Marion, MA., Minister of The Unitarian Universalist Church, Flushing. Died September 22 at age 51. He also served congregations in East Rochester, MA., and Ashby, MA. He was a passionate hiker and lover of wilderness. He will be deeply missed
 SABERSKI - Eugene, Dr. Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic remembers our esteemed friend Dr. Saberski and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. Carol Stix, Board Chair Reina Schiffrin, CEO PPHP Medical Committee       
 SIMONCIC - Helen. Bovis Lend Lease is deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Simoncic, mother of our newly appointed CEO, Charles A. Bacon, III. Our sympathies are extended to Charlie and his entire family.       
 SOPHER-Sassoon. Wednesday, September 18, 2002 in Geneva, Switzerland. Mr. Sopher was born in Basrah, Iraq, on May 25, 1906. He was the devoted husband of Rachel for 64 years. He was the devoted father and father-in-law of Frederic and his wife Joyce and of Jamil and his wife Lynn, and the d
 WHITE - Robert Winthrop. Sculptor, died Saint James, NY, on September 21, 2002. White was born in New York City on September 19, 1921, son of Lawrence Grant White, and Laura Chanler White; and grandson of the architect Stanford White. His death occurred after a long illness. He attended Por
 WIESNER-Louis A. The Board of Directors and the staff of the International Rescue Committee note with great sorrow the passing of our dear retired colleague, Louis A. Wiesner. As a member of our Board and Executive Committee, Lou made extraordinary contributions to the IRC and the cause of 
 ZACK-David. 85. Of New York City and Princeton, NJ, September 22, 2002. Beloved husband of 60 years of the late Beatrice Bodin; devoted father of Brian G. (Virginia August); Donald B. (Ellen Okun); beloved grandfather of Rebecca, Ian and Daniel Zack and Rachel, Elizabeth and Andrew Zack. Re
 Peter Kowald, the German bassist who worked in the realm of free improvisation and brought to his musicianship a lifetime of wide traveling and study and an admiration of interdisciplinary art, died early Saturday morning after a performance in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was 58 years old, a
 Leon Hart, who won the 1949 Heisman Trophy as a massive end at Notre Dame and played on Detroit Lions teams that won three National Football League championships, died yesterday at a hospital in South Bend, Ind. He was 73. Hart's death was announced by Notre Dame, which said he had 
 Mike Webster, whose Hall of Fame pro football career was followed by more than a decade of physical and psychological turmoil apparently brought on by repeated blows to the head on the field, died yesterday in a Pittsburgh hospital. He was 50. The cause of death was a heart attack, 
 GOLDBERG - Ira Samuel. Born December 4, 1928 in the Bronx, to Philip and Pauline. Married the late Malka Dobekirer, December 21, 1957, daughter of Jechil and the late Szejncia Dobekirer. Died September 15, 2002, in Manhattan. Played bass in the U.S. Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, Dallas S
 HERZIG-William F., M.D. Loving husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather. Survived by his loving wife, Rita Wynne Herzig; son Dr. Steven Herzig and his wife, Dr. Cathy; daughter Karen Herzig Sherman and her husband, Howard; grandchildren Melissa, Robin, Amanda, Shoshana and Jeremy; an
 JORDAN-Robert Oliver, 69. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, September 22, 2002 surrounded by his family and friends after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Bob spent his professional life at Compton Advertising. After it merged with Saatchi & Saatchi, he became the chairman of the 
 KARP-Dan. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society deeply mourn the loss of Dan Karp of Sarasota, FL., and formerly, Great Neck, N.Y. A longtime member of our Board of Directors, Mr. Karp, along with his wife, Joyce, lent his support to a variety of projects, including
 LIEBERMAN-Benjamin, 82. Died Monday, September 23, 2002. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend. He grasped life with courageous enthusiasm. Funeral services will be held at the RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York, Wednesday, September 25th a
 SANDLER-Eugene. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of Gurwin extend deepest sympathy to Julian Sandler, member of our Gurwin Jewish-Fay J. Lindner Residences Board of Directors, on the loss of his beloved father, Eugene, a resident of Gurwin. Our heartfelt condolences to the 
 SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. On September 23, 2002. Adoring and loving husband of Lisa. Adoring and loving father of Lucy and Jack Silverman, Amanda Feinsod, and Jason Silverman. Father of Jessica and Evan Silverman. Beloved grandfather of Alexa and Max Feinsod, and Samantha Silverman. Son of Rober
 THOMPSON-Grant M. Former senior executive with the William Esty Advertising Agency of New York, died Friday, September 13, 2002, in Burlington, VT. He was 86. Grant was born January 24, 1916, in Cincinnati, OH., to Samuel and Elizabeth van Nes Thompson. He was married in 1941 to Helen Morri
 TRIBUNO - Mario P. Of Princeton, New Jersey, formerly of Sands Point, New York, died Monday, September 23, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Mario retired in 1980 as CEO of GB Raffetto Inc. He is survived by his wife, Marie Louise, son Robert of Cedar Rapids, daughter Diane of Auckland, New Zealand an
 Robert O. Jordan, who helped create advertising campaigns for clients as diverse as Procter & Gamble and The National Enquirer, died Sunday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan, said. Mr. Jordan, whose career spanned five decades, led
 Bob Wallace, a pioneering programmer of the personal computer era who helped invent ''shareware'' software marketing , died on Friday at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 53. The cause was not immediately known and the results of an autopsy are not yet available, said his wife, 
 Murray Baron, a labor lawyer and consultant and former Liberal Party leader who became the president of the conservative journalism criticism group Accuracy in Media, died on Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 94. In a long career in labor in which his personal politics gradually vee
 Nils Bohlin, inventor of the three-point safety belt for cars, which is credited with saving countless lives since it was introduced in Europe in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Tranas, Sweden. He was 82. The cause was complications of a heart attack he suffered earlier that week an
 BACHRACH-Robert Lee. On Friday, September 20, 2002, after a long illness, at age 75. Beloved husband of Marjorie Baker Bachrach. Adored father of Jeff and the late Clifford Lee Bachrach and father-in-law of Stacey Roth Bachrach. Devoted brother of John D. Bachrach and Ellin B. Gordon. Also,
 BELLOWS-Charles W. On September 2, 2002. Beloved husband of Geraldine. Devoted father of Peter, Paul, Constance and Jeffrey. Cherished grandfather. He will be missed.       
 BERGNER-Alfred Paul, 59. Of Bethesda, Maryland, on Tuesday, September 24, 2002, of a brain tumor. He was the beloved husband of 34 years and the best friend of Jane Cohen Bergner; the beloved father of Lauren Jill Bergner, of New York, NY and Justin Laurence Bergner, of Arlington, VA.; the 
 GINSBURG-Harriet & Jeffrey. The Board of Directors, Officers and Employees of Seeds of Peace extend their condolences to our esteemed Board Member, Alan Ginsburg, and his family on the loss of his wife, Harriet, and his son, Jeffrey. Harriet's strength and love kept Alan and the family toge
 HERZIG-William. It is with deep sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of our beloved colleague and friend William F. Herzig, MD, a long time member of Beth Israel's Department of Medicine. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita, their chi
 KANE-Joseph Nathan. On September 22, 2002 in his 104th year. Beloved brother of Ann Kane Madier. Devoted uncle of Nancy Newman, David N. Kane, and greatniece, Emily Newman. He left the world a legacy of many famous books. Among those most widely circulated are ''Famous First Facts'' and ''F
 SANDLER-Eugene. The Hillel family expresses its deep sympathy to treasurer Julian Sandler and family on the passing of his beloved father, Eugene. May the Sandler family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, Chair Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinh
 SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Jeffrey Silverman, cherished husband of Lisa and beloved son-in-law of our dear friends Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol. Lynne and Mickey demonstrate their s
 TARTOW-Lawrence Richard. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and long time colleague, Lawrence Richard Tartow, MD, former member of Beth Israel's Department of Medicine. To his family, friends and all those who loved him, we 
 VALLELY, JR. - Wilfred (Bud) F. On September 25, 2002. Survived by his wife, Marnie, sons, Wilfred (Val), Scott, Mark and Todd and daughter, Victoria (Tori) Cox, his sister, Mitzi Fidao, and seventeen grandchildren. Bud was a distinguished executive in the paper industry for 50 years and ul
 PRATT-Edmund Taylor Jr., 1927-2002. The Pratt family invites you to participate in a memorial service for Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. This special service will be held Sunday, October 6, 2002, 3:00 P.M. at the Pratt Recreation Center on the C.W. Post Campus of Long Island University. Reception to 
 Dodo Marmarosa, a jazz pianist who became known as an early master of bebop's harmonic complexity and then vanished from the scene, died on Sept. 17 at a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 76 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette r
 Eduard Y. Gufeld, a chess grandmaster and prolific chess writer who coached many Russian players, including the former women's world champion Maya Chiburdanidze, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 66 and had lived in Los Angeles since 1995. Mr. Gufeld's death, at Cedars-Sinai Med
 Joseph Nathan Kane, whose lifelong obsession with facts led him to write exhaustive reference works that cataloged such things as the nicknames of presidents, when the first Eskimo Pie was created (1922), when the first camels were brought to America (1721) and the precise patent number of 
 BACHRACH-Robert Lee. On Friday, September 20, 2002, after a long illness, at age 75. Beloved husband of Marjorie Baker Bachrach. Adored father of Jeff and the late Clifford Lee Bachrach and father-in-law of Stacey Roth Bachrach. Devoted brother of John D. Bachrach and Ellin B. Gordon. Also,
 BISHAR-John J., Sr. Of Blue Point, NY, age 83 on September 26, 2002, after a short illness. Beloved husband of the late Mildred Bishar, beloved father and father-in-law of John and Noreen Bishar and loving grandfather of Kim (Gregg) Hession, Kelly Bishar and Lauren Bishar. Veteran of World 
 BROWNLIE-Ian G.M. Of Shelter Island, NY on September 26, 2002. Loving husband of Marian. Devoted father of Heather Elizabeth Gordon Brownlie and John Cameron Gordon Brownlie. Cherished brother of Sheila Brownlie Gibbon. Burial is private. A Memorial Service Saturday, October 12 at 11am on S
 COLLINS-Joe, died peacefully in his sleep on Thursday, September 12, 2002. He worked as a Foreign Correspondent for the London office of the New York Times for many years during and after W.W. II and will be sadly missed by all of his family. The funeral was held in Worthing, Sussex, Englan
 CONNOLLY-Mary M. (nee Eisenmenger) on September 25, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harold. Loving mother of Harold X. and his wife, Barbara. Much loved grandmother of Keara, Kristin, Melissa & Caitlin. Great-grandmother of six. Visiting Saturday and Sunday, 2-5 & 7-9 pm, at John J. Fox 
 GLENN-David. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of David Glenn, husband of Elaine Glenn, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President       
 ROGENSTEIN-Bernard. On September 25, 2002. Born July 11, 1939. Loving and devoted husband of Lucille. Proud and loving father of Gregg and Steven. Brother of Fredric. A true Renaissance man who loved life and all it had to offer. Services Friday 2 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Am
 SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. DadYou are, and will always be, our super hero. We love you and will miss you forever. Love, Amanda, Michael, Alexa and Max SILVERMAN - Jeffrey S. Much loved father of Amanda and Michael Feinsod, Wendy and Jason Silverman. Proud grandfather of Alexa and Max Feinso
 URMAN-Felix, 84. Beloved husband for 30 years of Doris and the late Michelle. Devoted father of Dorothy and Howard Denberg, Mark Urman, Deborah Davis. Dearest stepfather of Ann and Abe Oster, Harry and Cammy Weisleder, adored and adoring Poppy of Michelle, Elizabeth, Abigail, Oliver, Cleo, 
 USSAK-Richard Martin, 55. Of Tucson, died September 24, 2002 after a short struggle with lung cancer. Survived by father, Robert Ussak of West Davenport, NY; brother Mike (Ann Marie) Ussak of Edison, NJ; nieces Amanda and Marianne; uncle Victor Brenner, aunts Mariam Cohen, Pearl Geller and 
 Glen Rounds, who was born in a sod house near Wall, S.D., and worked as a mule skinner, cowboy and carnival medicine man before beginning a long career as an author and illustrator, died yesterday in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 96. His last work, ''Beaver'' (Holiday House), was published
 ALDRICH-Bailey. The Honorable Judge Bailey Aldrich of Cambridge, MA., at home September 25, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth (Perkins) Aldrich. Loving father of Jonathan Aldrich and his wife Nancy of Cape Elizabeth, ME and David Aldrich of Brookline, MA. Cherished grandfather of 
 BACHRACH - Robert Lee. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Robert Lee Bachrach, son of our late president Alfred R. Bachrach, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories wil
 BORMUTH-Robert A. The Board of Directors and membership of the Bathing Corporation express great sadness at the recent passing of our most worthy and esteemed manager of fifty-four years, and extend our deepest sympathy to Joyce and his family.       
 FISHER-James F., CSP. On September 26, 2002 at age 74. Born in Selinsgrove, PA. in 1928, he grew up and was educated in the public schools of DeLand, FL. Ordained May 1, 1959 his assignments included years in Newman work at Berkeley, CA & Clemson, SC. His other ministry took him to Boston, 
 GRANGER-David. Of New York City, died on September 27, 2002. Mr. Granger is survived by his wife Lee Mason Granger and by their son David Mason Granger and by his stepson Thomas Mason Clyde. A memorial service will be held later this Fall. Memorial contributions may be made to Mary Manning 
 LANDIS-Abner A. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MORISON-Gordon I. Age 86, of Red Bank, NJ, died Thursday. He was a CPA for The Bank of New York retiring in 1980 after 28 years of employment. He retired as senior vice president. He is survived by his wife Ruth (nee Williams), daughter Laurie, grandson Stephen and niece Natalie. Services a
 ROGENSTEIN-Bernard. The members of the Board, the tenants and staff of 17 East 89 St. express their profound sadness at the sudden death of our cherished neighbor, Bernie Rogenstein. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Lucy, sons Gregg and Steven, and his entire family. We are all diminished b
 Ray Hayworth, a longtime catcher who was the last surviving teammate of Ty Cobb on the Detroit Tigers and the oldest living former major league player, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Salisbury, N.C. He was 98. When Hayworth made his debut in the major leagues, Calvin Coolidge w
 Robert L. Forward, a science fiction writer, physicist and inventor whose 11 novels were inspired by his research into gravitational physics and advanced space propulsion, died at his home in Seattle last Saturday. He was 70. The cause of death was cancer, his son-in-law, Ben Mattli
 Warren E. Burnett, a whiskey-swigging, Shakespeare-quoting Texas lawyer who achieved near-legendary status by winning big jury awards, taking on seemingly impossible murder cases and defending the powerless, died on Monday while visiting Fort Davis, Tex. He was 75. He was sitting on
 David Granger, who acquired a seat on the New York Stock Exchange in 1926 and occupied it for the next three-quarters of a century, died Friday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. He was 99 years old. Dapper in a suit and tie nearly every day of his adult life, he was activ
 ALDRICH-Bailey. The Honorable Judge Bailey Aldrich of Cambridge, MA., at home September 25, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth (Perkins) Aldrich. Loving father of Jonathan Aldrich and his wife Nancy of Cape Elizabeth, ME and David Aldrich of Brookline, MA. Cherished grandfather of 
 ALLEN-David. The Bermuda Department of Tourism deeply mourns the loss of their esteemed Minister of Tourism, the Hon. David H. Allen, JP, MP, who died on September 26, 2002, at his home in Bermuda. We will miss his leadership and devotion to the tourism industry, and extend our sympathy to 
 BACHELLE - Oliver. AKA Oliver Lewis, on September 21, 2002. He had joy de vive and will be missed by all those he touched in his life. Memorial Service at St. Vincent's Hospital Chapel, November 9, at 5:30 PM.       
 BACHRACH-Robert Lee. On Friday, September 20, 2002, after a long illness, at age 75. Beloved husband of Marjorie Baker Bachrach. Adored father of Jeff and the late Clifford Lee Bachrach and father-in-law of Stacey Roth Bachrach. Devoted brother of John D. Bachrach and Ellin B. Gordon. Also,
 BORMUTH-Robert A. The Board of Directors and membership of the Bathing Corporation express great sadness at the recent passing of our most worthy and esteemed manager of fifty-four years, and extend our deepest sympathy to Joyce and his family.       
 BRANCA-Joseph C. On September 26, 2002. A 50 year resident of Plainview and retired Acting Commissioner of Public Works for the Town of Oyster Bay. He was to have been 84 next month. A graduate of City College of NY. Lt. Colonel in US Army during WWII. Member of Knights of Columbus, Joseph 
 BROWNLIE-Ian G.M. Of Shelter Island, NY on September 26, 2002. Loving husband of Marian. Devoted father of Heather Elizabeth Gordon Brownlie and John Cameron Gordon Brownlie. Cherished brother of Sheila Brownlie Gibbon. Burial is private. A Memorial Service Saturday, October 12 at 11am on S
 CERVINO-Carmen. Extraordinary men visit upon us the glowing legacy of extraordinary lives. To the table of Daytop's awesome responsibilities for young lives, Carmen Cervino for over a quarter century bought his immense portfolio of financial and management skills. This became his 'labor of 
 GRANGER-David. Of New York City, died on September 27, 2002. Mr. Granger is survived by his wife Lee Mason Granger and by their son David Mason Granger and by his stepson Thomas Mason Clyde. A memorial service will be held later this Fall. Memorial contributions may be made to Mary Manning 
 HANAWAY-Thomas E. Of Babylon, Long Island, on September 26, 2002 in his 90th year. Survived by his wife of 58 years Nancy (nee Walbridge), his children Thomas W. Hanaway, Katherine H. Sanson and Ann H. Maier. Also survived by six grandchildren, Jaime and Stacy Hanaway, Nancy S. Collins and 
 HOMOLKA-Larry Joseph. Artist and art historian, age 61, died in NYC on 22 September 2002 following a long illness with muscular dystrophy. Born May 21, 1941 in Oak Park, IL, he grew up in Mankato, MN. He received his B.A. degree with Honors in Art from Grinnell College, IA. He was a member 
 MAVRIKS-Nicholas. 88, died Tuesday, September 24, 2002. He was born January 28, 1914, of Greek parents, in Manhattan where he lived and worked, summering in Fire Island, until 1994, when he moved to Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. He was an accomplished violinist and an executive in the shipping ind
 McCANN-Michael F. Age 59, of Lake Worth, passed away on September 16, 2002. He had lived in Florida since 1999 coming from NY, and was past president of I.Q. Manufacturing after a long career in retail with Saks Fifth Avenue in NY, CA. and FL. Preceded in death by his parents Michael and Mo
 PERERA-George A., M.D., Med. Sc.D. The Department of Medicine notes with sadness the passing on September 14th of Dr. George A. Perera at the age of 91. Dr. Perera graduated from Princeton College in 1933 and from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1937. Following
 REENS-Louis. Died on September 13, 2002, Dallas, TX. Beloved father of Judy and Richard, beloved brother of Anneke, and best friend to his three dogs. He will be sorely missed. An internationally renowned architectural photographer. His work can be viewed at www.reens.com/ lreens/       
 ROMANOFF - HIH Prince Alexander. Of Russia died in London, after a brief illness on September 21. Prince Alexander was a greatgrandson of the emperor Alexander III and the empress Maria Feodorovna, and a grand-nephew of the last tsar, Nicholas II. His grandparents were Grand Duchess Xenia, 
 SILVERMAN-Samuel. Of Tamarac, FL, on September 22, 2002. Beloved and devoted husband of Roslyn. Survived by sons Alan, Larry and Henry; daughters Patti Nevins and Lyn Silverman; sister Ceciel Platt. Mr. Silverman was C.E.O. of Petrocelli Clothes. He lived in Great Neck, NY for thirty years 
 SLOTE-Walter H., psychoanalyst, psychoanalytic anthropologist, and former Senior Research Associate at the East Asian Institute, Columbia University, died Tuesday at the age of 84. Dr. Slote conducted extensive field research in Peru, Venezuela, Viet Nam and South Korea. He has also publish
 TRUSLOW - Michael Whit lock. July 3, 1953-September 22, 2002. Loved always for his integrity, compassion, intense love of life, family and his fellow man.       
 WOLFE-Andrew, 41. Of New City, New York, on September 25, 2002. Beloved husband of Debi, father of Ethan and Jessica, son of Joan and Arnold, brother of Jim, son-inlaw of Barbara and Abby and good friend of many. He was loved and will be missed. For more information, contact Hellman Memoria
 BROWSE-Bert B. April 3, 1929 to May 9, 2002. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, October 6, 3:30 PM at the Sanctuary at Mt. Lebanon, Glendale, NY. There is no joy on 7th Avenue, mighty Bert has struck out. We loved him so much. Mox and his Kids       
 Charles Henri Ford, a poet, editor, novelist, artist and legendary cultural catalyst whose career spanned much of 20th-century modernism, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan and had a house in Katmandu. Mr. Ford, who also had homes in Paris and on Crete for
 BLAU-Seymour. Of Long Beach, NY, and North Miami Beach, FL. Died on September 28, 2002. He was born on October 9, 1919. Beloved husband of Martha Newhouse Blau and the late Evelyn Krauss Blau. Loving father of Kathy Weiss and Robert Blau, and father-in-law of Michael Weiss and Joyce Blau. G
 DESKIN-Claire. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Claire Deskin, beloved mother of Michael Steinhardt. Michael and his wife, Judy, are cherished friends and supporters of UJA-Federation. They are admired by colleagues and friends f
 HANFT-Burton. 82, on September 19, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL. A pioneer in entertainment law, he was a vice president of Screen Gems, NBC and Paramount Pictures, and the senior partner of Sargoy, Stein and Hanft. He is mourned by his wife Cora, his sister Joy Collins, his children Steven Hanf
 HOCHWALD-Dr. Gerald M. Died on Sunday, September 29, 2002, at the age of 70 while undergoing rehabilitation following an injury at his home. He was a Professor of Neurology, Physiology and Biophysics at New York University Medical Center for 35 years. He is survived by his three sons Bertra
 PAGANO-Steven D. The Council of Protocol Executives (COPE) expresses great sadness at the recent passing of our Board member, Steven Pagano. We will miss his exuberance and energy. Steve was always there for all of us. Our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 SILBERT-Harvey L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend Harvey L. Silbert. An acclaimed humanitarian known for his wisdom and motivational skills, Harvey maintained a longstanding involvement i
