 Dr. William Joseph Sweeney 3d, a Manhattan gynecologist who took part in the early research on in-vitro fertilization, died on Oct. 23. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He died of a heart attack in his Manhattan office, where he was attending patients, his fa
 Peter Savino, a longtime Mafia associate who became a major Government witness against his former confederates, including such top mobsters as the recently convicted Vincent Gigante, died on Sept. 30, Federal prosecutors said in a court document filed this week. Mr. Savino was 55, a
 Samuel Fuller, a director, screenwriter and producer who was widely viewed as the reigning virtuoso of low-budget films and was ranked by European critics as one of the best directors in the world, died on Thursday at his home in the Hollywood Hills. He was 85 and had homes in France and Ca
 Dr. Michael J. S. Dewar, a theoretical chemist whose predictions about the nature of unknown organic chemicals led to many drug advances, died on Oct. 10 at Columbia North Florida Regional Hospital in Gainesville, Fla., where he lived. He was 79. At the University of Texas, where he
 Luther G. Simjian, a prolific inventor who held patents on devices as diverse as the flight simulator, the self-focusing camera, the automated teller machine and the Teleprompter, died at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on Oct. 23. He was 92. During an inventing career that spann
 Philip L. Defliese, the former chairman and managing partner of Coopers & Lybrand and a leading figure in the shaping of accounting standards, died on Oct. 27 in New York of respiratory failure. He was 82. As chairman of the 18-member Accounting Principles Board of the American Inst
 Dr. Benjamin W. Zweifach, a pioneer in the study of microcirculation, which involves small blood vessels, and in the field of bioengineering, died on Oct. 23 at Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 86 and lived in San Diego. The cause was complications after heart surgery, f
 James G. Gantsoudes, global head of the equity capital markets department at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, died Oct. 17 at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 55. His family said the cause of death was cancer. Mr. Gantsoudes (pronounced GAN-sou-des) graduate
 Roy McMillan, one of baseball's smoothest-fielding shortstops of the 1950's with the Cincinnati Reds and later a New York Mets manager, died yesterday at Northeast Medical Center in Bonham, Tex. He was 68. McMillan collapsed at his home in Bonham earlier in the day, having apparentl
 Walter J. Kuron, a German-born choirmaster who made music his life and his World War I dogfighting days his legend, died Tuesday at a New Jersey nursing home the way he lived , listening to Bach. He was 102 and had not quite lived down the myth that he was the last man alive to have flown w
 Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the  French-born financier who was said to be the wealthiest of the surviving descendants of the legendary banking family, died in Geneva on Sunday. He was 71. The cause of death was emphysema, The Associated Press reported. Born in Paris in 1926 
 John Durniak, a former picture editor of The New York Times and of Time magazine, died yesterday at his home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. As picture editor of The Times from 1981 to 1984, Mr. Durniak oversaw the phot
 Vladimir Sokoloff, a pianist on the faculty of the Curtis Institute of Music who accompanied many of the world's leading singers and instrumentalists, died on Oct. 27 at Allegheny University Health Systems Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia after a long illness. He was 84 and lived in Phila
 Charles Jordon, a leading publisher of Christian and inspirational literature, died on Thursday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. He was 52 and lived in Irving, Tex. The cause was liver failure, according to Word Publishing, of which he had been publisher and executive 
 Harold Friedman, a baker who rose to vice president of the teamsters' union and was convicted of labor racketeering, died on Wednesday at Meridia Hillcrest Hospital in Cleveland. He was 74 and lived in Pepper Pike, a suburb of Cleveland. The cause of death was heart disease, said hi
 Harrison Roth, who was known as an expert on the trading of options, a form of investment contract, died Sunday from cancer, his employer, Cowen & Company, said yesterday. He was 65. He was the senior options strategist at Cowen, a securities brokerage firm that he joined in 1989 af
 Herbert Cole Coombs, an economist who was governor of Australia's central bank for 20 years, advised seven Prime Ministers and was one of Australia's most influential public servants, died on Oct. 29 in a Sydney nursing home. He was 91. A farmhand's son born near Perth, Western Aust
 Irving Schneider, a theater producer and general manager, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 and also had a home in Quogue, N.Y. Mr. Schneider began his career in the mid-1930's as an office boy for the producer Sam H. Harris. He went on to become assistant stage m
 Phil Soto, a one-time television repairman who became an inspiration to a generation of Hispanic politicians in California when he broke through decades of prejudice to become one of the first two Hispanic members of the State legislature since the 19th century, died on Tuesday at his home 
 Ralph Burton Rogers, a former chairman of the Public Broadcasting Service who helped defend the organization against attacks by President  Richard M. Nixon in the 1970's, died  on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 87. Mr. Rogers, who was also an influential businessman and phila
 Robert M. Bleiberg, who retired in 1991 after long service as editor, publisher and editorial director of Barron's, the weekly business and financial newspaper, died Monday at New York Hospital. The cause of death was leukemia, according to Dow Jones & Company, which publishes Barron's and 
 H. Richard Hornberger, a surgeon who wrote the novel ''M*A*S*H,'' the inspiration for the film and long-running television series of the same name, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 73. The cause was leukemia, said his son William. Dr. Hornberger spent mo
 Sir Isaiah Berlin, the philosopher and historian of ideas, revered for his intellect and cherished for his wit and his gift for friendship, died of a heart attack following a long illness Wednesday evening in Oxford, England. He was 88. A staunch advocate of pluralism in a century i
 Victor Mills, who led an engineering team that invented the first mass-market disposable diaper and changed the way millions of parents attend to infants, died on Saturday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 100 years old. In 35 years as a chemical engineer for the Procter & Gamble 
 Edmond N. Moriarty Jr. of Bernardsville, N.J., a senior executive of Merrill Lynch & Company, died Oct. 26 at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, a family spokeswoman said. In 43 years with the big Wall Street firm, Mr. Mo
 Maxwell Heiman, a former Connecticut trial lawyer, past president of the state bar and a judge of the Connecticut Appellate Court for the last seven years, died on Wednesday at Hartford Hospital. He was 65 and lived in Newington, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Michael G. Pugliese, a composer, conductor and percussionist, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was a stroke, according to his father, Michael. Mr. Pugliese toured with the musical ensemble of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, the composer John 
 Michael von Clemm, an investment banker who used a lifelong interest in anthropology to help pioneer the global Eurobond market, died on Thursday at his family home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 62. The cause was a brain tumor, his son-in-law, William Iselin, said. Mr. von Clem
 Sidney Darlington, a Bell Labs mathematician who pioneered the design of electronic circuits and whose formulas helped launch rockets 300 times without error, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Exeter, N.H. He was 91. At Bell Labs, in Murray Hill, N.J., where he headed the mathematics r
 Adam Kennedy, a novelist, actor and artist, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kennedy was the author of 20 novels and 10 screenplays, including ''The Domino Principle'' (1975), which he also adapted for t
 Howard Schulman, a labor lawyer and a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for two terms, died Oct. 23 at Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Millbrook, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. A
 Sam Hairston, who spent more than 50 years as a professional baseball player, scout and coach but played in the major leagues just long enough to qualify for an asterisk, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 77 and the first American-born black player on the Chicago 
 William Heyward Homer Turner, former executive director of the United States Steel Corporation's foundation and an early developer of corporate philanthropy, died on Oct. 30 at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 93 and a resident of Stamford. Mr. Turner joined the U
 Albert M. Baer, a cutlery manufacturer and a supporter of heart research, died on Oct. 26 at his home in Rapidan, Va. He was 92 and also kept a residence in lower Manhattan, a family home for five generations. At his death, Mr. Baer was chairman of the Imperial Schrade Corporation o
 Frank J. Graziano, a former chairman and chief executive of the Crompton & Knowles Corporation, died Oct. 27 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 79. The cause of death was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. 
 J. Edward Corn, an arts manager and administrator, died on Oct. 16 at St. Joseph's Hospital in St. Paul, Minn. He was 64 and lived in Sunfish Lake, Minn. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Corn was born in St. Louis, and after graduating from Yal
 Leon Forrest, a writer who explored black American history in his richly complex, epic novels, died on Thursday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 60 and lived in Evanston. The cause was cancer, said his agent, Faith Childs. Mr. Forrest, who had taught African-Ame
 Prospero DeBona, a lawyer, member and past president of the Monmouth County Board of Taxation and one of the first members of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, died on Oct. 22 at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Red Bank. The cause was resp
 Kricker James, the producing director of the Chain Lightning Theater in Manhattan, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was kidney cancer, said his wife, Claire Higgins. Mr. James and Ms. Higgins founded the Chain Lightning Theater in SoHo in 1991. T
 Max Waldgeir, a former administrator of social services in New York City, died on Oct. 30 at Northridge Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Formerly of Douglaston, Queens, he was 80 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was complications from bypass surgery, his family said. Mr. 
 The Rev. Osborne E. Scott, one of the first black chaplains in the Army, who later created some of the earliest college courses in urban and ethnic studies, died on Nov. 2 at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81 and a Mount Vernon, N.Y., resident for the
 Dr. Samuel Gurin, a biochemist who was the only dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania who did not hold a medical degree, died on Oct. 22 at the Pine Run Village retirement home in Doylestown, Pa. He was 92. He was on the faculty of the medical school for 3
 Frank P. Bibas, an Academy Award-winning producer and director, died on Oct. 16 at a hospice in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Bibas won an Oscar in 1961 for ''Project Hope,'' a documentary about the voyages of an American hospital ship, the Hope, which brought medical help and tra
 Meyer Berger, a self-made businessman, philanthropist and national fund-raiser for the Democratic Party, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 85. He had been in failing health for six years and had suffered a series of strokes, his family said. Mr. Berger, know
 Schuyler Merritt Meyer Jr., a retired entrepreneur and longtime head of the Edwin Gould Foundation for Children, died Nov. 4 at his home in Dover Plains, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, the foundation reported. At his death Mr. Meyer was chairman and projects officer o
 The Rev. Dr. Bob Jones Jr., the chancellor and board chairman of Bob Jones University in Greenville, S.C., who in the late 1970's forfeited his college's Federal tax exemption rather than permit students of different races to date or marry, died yesterday at his home in Greenville.  He was 
 Rod Milburn, one of track and field's greatest high hurdlers and a gold medalist in the 110-meter hurdles at the 1972 Munich Olympics, was found dead on Tuesday night, submerged in a liquid-chemical tank at a Georgia Pacific paper plant in Port Hudson, La. He was 47. Milburn, who ha
 James Laughlin, the fiercely independent publisher, editor and poet, who, as the founder and longtime head of New Directions, published many of the most consequential and revolutionary writers of his time, died Wednesday on the way to Sharon Hospital from his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 8
 Stephen D. Paine, an art collector and museum benefactor, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was respiratory failure due to post-polio syndrome, his wife, Susan Woods Paine, said. Mr. Paine, an inve
 William Matthews, a poet who was praised for his personal voice and who won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1996, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 55. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said his companion, Celia Bellinger. Mr. Matthews, a pr
 Carlos Surinach, an American composer of Spanish birth who drew freely on the rhythmic and melodic conventions of flamenco in his works, died on Wednesday at his home in New Haven. He was 82. Although Mr. Surinach composed prolifically for orchestra, chorus, chamber ensembles and vo
 Eddie Arcaro, the master of thoroughbred racing for 31 years as America's premier jockey, who five times won the Kentucky Derby and twice swept the Triple Crown, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 81. Arcaro died after a long illness, according to his wife, Vera. Fo
 Gen. Leon William Johnson of the Air Force, who won the Medal of Honor for leading a daring low-level raid in the all-out air assault that throttled enemy fuel supplies from Romania's vast oil fields in 1943, died on Monday at the Belvoir Woods health care center in Fairfax, Va. He was 93 a
 Big Nick Nicholas, a tenor saxophonist and singer who played with some of the greatest musicians of postwar jazz, died on Oct. 29 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Queens. He was 75 and lived in Queens. The cause was heart failure, said Pastor Dale Lind, pastor to jazz musicians at St. Pe
 Cecil F. Poole, the first black United States Attorney outside a United States territory and the first black Federal judge in Northern California, has died in Kentfield, Calif. He was 83. Judge Poole died on Wednesday of complications from pneumonia, said the United States Court of 
 Douglas MacArthur 2d, a diplomat who was Ambassador to Japan from 1957 to 1961, a period when relations between Tokyo and Washington were put on a new footing of equality after 15 years of Japanese subordination, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 88 an
 Georges Marchais, whose rigid leadership of the French Communist Party from 1972 to 1994 was blamed for reducing it to the margins of French political life, died yesterday in Paris. He was 77. He had suffered a long history of heart disease and was admitted a week before he died to 
 Michael Patrick Tierney, a Manhattan lawyer who specialized in international antitrust and insurance matters and whose pro bono work put him in the front lines of the anti-abortion movement, died on Nov. 5 at Kennedy International Airport. He collapsed at the airport after arriving from Sin
 The Rev. Warren William Ost, who made his ministry among those who travel, live or work in the national parks, died on Nov. 6 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, his family said in reporting his death last week. Mr. Ost started 
 Georgie Tapps, a tap soloist and Broadway musical dancer, died on Nov. 1 at St. Joseph's Center Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. In Mr. Tapps's heyday, in the 1930's and 40's, he performed in nightclubs and cabarets, in films that included ''Vogues of 
 Ron Tindiglia, a television news consultant who had earlier been the general manager of WCBS-TV and the news director of WABC-TV, both in New York, died on Nov. 10 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 51 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. His wife, Misti, said the cause was lung
 Russ Meyer, a right-handed pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and the Brooklyn Dodgers' World Series champions of 1955, who was notorious for hot-tempered displays, died Sunday in Oglesby, Ill. He was 74. He had suffered from congestive heart fa
 Stefan Lorant, a Hungarian-born editor and author who cut a serendipitous swath through the 20th century while pioneering modern photojournalism, died on Friday at a hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 96 and lived in Lenox, Mass. Mr. Lorant was credited with developing the model fo
 David Ignatow, whose clear, direct, seemingly effortless verse won him one of poetry's highest honors, the Bollingen Prize, in 1977, died on Monday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 83. He had been suffering from congestive heart failure, said a friend, Virginia Terris.      
 Floyd Mallory Shumway, a New Haven historian and a former professor at Columbia University, died last Wednesday at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 80 and lived in New Haven. The cause was cancer, his family said. A past executive director of the New Haven Colon
 Robert S. Kane, a travel writer and creator of the ''A to Z'' and ''World at Its Best'' series of guides, died on Nov. 10 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Dr. Max Drechsler, his companion. Mr. Kane's guides were u
 Saul Chaplin, an Academy Award-winning songwriter, producer, musical director and vocal arranger who worked on more than 60 Hollywood films, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause was injuries sustained from a fall, said his wife, Betty.
 Arthur Eric Gropp, a champion of closer United States-Latin American ties and a former library director for the Organization of American States, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Greenbelt, Md. He was 94. Mr. Gropp led the Columbus Memorial Library at O.A.S. headquarters in Washington f
 Jim Kepner, an early gay rights advocate who preserved the movement's history even as he helped to write it, died on Saturday at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was about 74 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Kepner never knew his exact age. He was told by his adoptive parents that he
 Edwin Mansfield, a leading scholar of the economics of technological change, died on Monday at his home in Wallingford, Pa. He was 67. He died of cancer, according to a spokeswoman for W. W. Norton & Company, publisher of his economics textbooks, which were used by millions of colle
 Eli A. Finn, whose vigor and wry views of a 100-year swath of the modern era earned him a measure of fame in his later years, died on Saturday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., at the age of 107. He died of natural causes, said Joe Singer, the manager of Collins Funeral Home in Norwalk
 Robert Palmer, a music critic, historian, musician and producer, died yesterday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 52 and had lived in New Orleans. The cause was complications from liver disease, said Claire Palermo Flower, a spokeswoman for the medica
 Robert Stanley, a painter who translated newspaper photographs and other commercial imagery into gritty works on canvas, died on Saturday in Manhattan on his way to Beekman Hospital. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Stanley was born in Yonkers, N.Y., in 
 Grayson Louis Kirk, the scholarly president of Columbia University whose ill-fated decision in the spring of 1968 to turn 1,000 police officers in riot gear against student protesters became an emblem of the generational conflict characterizing the Vietnam War era, died early yesterday morn
 Dr. Norman H. Topping, who helped to develop the typhus vaccine and went on to lead the University of Southern California's transformation into a prominent research center, died on Tuesday. He was 89. Dr. Topping was president of the university from 1958 to 1970 and chancellor from 
 Carl G. Hempel, whose rigorously empirical approach to scientific logic was at the center of American scholarly writing on the philosophy of science for several decades, died on Nov. 9 at a nursing home near Princeton, N.J. He was 92. Dr. Hempel, called Peter, taught at Princeton Un
 Donald Bannard Goodall, a professor of art history, founding director of the University of Texas Art Museum in Austin and a specialist in Latin American art, died on Oct. 27 at his home in Glendale, Calif. He was 85. He was born in Los Angeles in 1912. He received an undergraduate d
 Dr. Aaron J. Sharp, a botanist and avid popularizer of botany who applied his studies of moss around the world to such sweeping questions as plate tectonics, died on Nov. 16 at Fort Sanders Regional Medical Center in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 93. Dr. Sharp was a co-au
 Harold S. Geneen, an executive seen by many as both the architect of the international conglomerate and the most significant and controversial businessman of the 1960's and 70's, died of a massive heart attack at New York Hospital on Friday evening, his secretary, Marie Serio, said. He was 
 Lester David, who wrote 14 books and hundreds of magazine articles, died on Nov. 10 at South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Woodmere, N.Y. Mr. David began his career at The Brooklyn Eagle in 1935, working as a reporter, copy editor and assistan
 Ismail Fahmy, a former Egyptian Foreign Minister who resigned in 1977 because he opposed President Anwar el-Sadat's visit to Jerusalem  died on Friday at a hospital in Cairo. He was 75 and lived in Cairo. He died after suffering a heart attack and had been hospitalized earlier becau
 James Robert Baker, a novelist known for his wildly imaginative satires, committed suicide on Nov. 5 at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif., said Ken Camp, a friend. He was 50. Mr. Baker was a graduate of the film school at the University of California at Los Angeles, where he won
 Jorge Mas Canosa, who came to the United States as a penniless refugee from the dictatorship of Fidel Castro and built the Cuban-American National Foundation into one of Washington's most effective lobbying groups, died here this afternoon at home. He was 58. Mr. Mas died of lung ca
 Nathan Gould, who built Women's American ORT into a force in American Jewish life and a mainstay of a worldwide network, died on Nov. 10 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. ORT, an acronym of the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training
 James R. Mellow, a distinguished critic and author who wrote a trilogy  of biographies about writers of the Lost Generation, died on Saturday at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said Augie Capaccio, his companion of 46 years. Mr. Mellow had a home
 Norman M. Morris, an entrepreneur and philanthropist, died on Monday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 99. Born in Austria-Hungary, he was brought to New York at the age of 3. He got his start in the watch business as a delivery boy for an importer at 15 and went to school at nig
 Roger Brown, a leading painter of the Chicago Imagist style, whose radiant, panoramic images were as passionately political as they were rigorously visual, died on Saturday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 55 and had homes and studios in Chicago, New Buffalo, Mich., and Carpenteria, 
 Ira Wolfert, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent in World War II who wrote the acclaimed 1943 novel ''Tucker's People,'' on which the cult movie ''Force of Evil'' was based, died on Monday at Mountainside Residential Care Center in Margaretville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Lake Hill
 Hastings Kamuzu Banda, a founding father in postcolonial Africa who led Malawi to independence in 1964 and then ruled it with a combination of caustic wit, eccentricity and cruelty for 30 years, died on Tuesday night in a hospital here. Dr. Banda died of respiratory failure. He had 
 Werner Hofer, one of the best-known television journalists in postwar Germany, whose career was ended by reports about his activities under the Nazis, died at his home in Cologne Tuesday night, German television reported. He was 84. Mr. Hofer achieved national fame for over 30 years
 James F. Bender, an eclectic educator who started out training speech therapists in the 1930's and ended up teaching business in the 1970's, but only after he had done star turns as a public pronunciation specialist and pioneering pop psychologist, become a high-paid business consultant and
 Dr. Marvin C. Goldstein, an orthodontist and businessman who defied the segregationist sentiments of the mid-1960's by opening Atlanta's first integrated hotel, died on Saturday at his Atlanta home. He was 80. Dr. Goldstein's hotel, the American, opened in 1964 and became a haven fo
 Stephen L. R. McNichols, a liberal Democrat who served as Governor of Colorado as the state was emerging from its agrarian past, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Denver. He was 83 and lived in Denver. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. McNichols, a la
 Buck Leonard, regarded as the greatest first baseman in the history of the Negro leagues, deprived of a chance to play major league baseball but a Hall of Famer nonetheless,  died Thursday at Nash General Hospital in his hometown of Rocky Mount, N.C. He was 90. A power-hitting left-
 Stanton L. Catlin, an art historian who did pioneering work in the study and documentation of modern Mexican mural painting, died on Wednesday at his home in Fayetteville, N.Y. He was 82. Mr. Catlin, who organized the influential exhibition ''Art of Latin America Since Independence'
 Charles G. Hagedorn, a publisher of a chain of small newspapers in New York and Connecticut, died on Nov. 17 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Hagedorn, who lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., was 79. The cause of death was a stroke, his son, Christopher, said. Mr. Hagedo
 Coleman A. Young, the combative, tart-tongued former union organizer who became the first black Mayor of Detroit when he was elected in 1973 and then went on to run the city for a record 20 years, died yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He was 79. The cause of death was respira
 Jack M. Berry, a Tennessee-born New York businessman who made a fortune in Florida orange groves, died on Nov. 21 at a hospital near his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He was 81 and the last of the Florida citrus barons who transformed the industry in the 1960's. The death certificate l
 Auxiliary Bishop John Gavin Nolan of the Archdiocese for the Military Services, which serves more than a million Catholics in the United States and around the world, died on Nov. 19 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and most recently lived in Manhattan. He suffered a long 
 Richard R. Ruopp, a president emeritus of Bank Street College who adapted up-to-date technologies for the classroom, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. Dr. Ruopp wa
 W. L. Hadley Griffin, retired chairman and chief executive of a national footwear company and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, died on Nov. 9 at his home in St. Louis. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, said a son, Dustin H. Griffin 2d. Mr. 
