 Adm. John Joseph Hyland Jr., a veteran test pilot and champion of naval air power who commanded the American armada off Indochina at the height of the Vietnam War, died last Sunday at a hospice in Honolulu. He was 86 and lived in Honolulu. President Lyndon B. Johnson went over the h
 Christopher Gable, an English ballet star who made an unusually successful transition to film and theater, died on Oct. 23 at his home near Halifax in Yorkshire. He was 58. The cause was cancer, said Anna Izza, spokeswoman for the Northern Ballet in Leeds, which Mr. Gable directed. 
 Francis X. Larkin, who built a career in home furnishings and helped lead Fieldcrest Mills Inc., a maker of home-furnishing textiles based in Eden, N.C., died last Monday at Brick Memorial Hospital in Brick, N.J. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the Frank Halpin's Funeral Home 
 AUCHINCLOSS-Hugh, MD of Westwood, MA and Manchester, MA, formerly of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, died on October 25, 1998 at the age of 83. His death resulted from complications of Alzheimer's Disease. Dr. Auchincloss was born in New York City, the son of Dr. Hugh Auchincloss and Frances C. (Newlands) A
 BOXER-Walter. 82. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Henry and Louis. Adored grandfather of seven. President of the Wholesale Florist Association. Services Monday, 11:30 AM, Boulevard-Riverside, Hewlett, NY. He will be terribly missed by all who knew him.       
 CHLARSON-Linder. 62. October 27. Son of Lewis and Erma. Composer, director, teacher. The world will yearn for more of his music. Many friends will miss him. Donations to American Music Center.       
 DANZIG-Max. Age 98, on October 31, 1998. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Loving husband of the late Edith Danzig. Devoted father of Dorothy Danzig Masch and the late Judith Danzig. Much loved grandfather of Julia, Jason and Rachel Masch. A kind and caring leader in his community, and a true gentl
 DiGIACINTO-Rose. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Hyman-Newman Institute for neurology and neurosurgery (INN) in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Rose DiGiacinto, beloved mother of George V. DiGiacinto, M.D., Director of the Di
 GLICK-Rose. The board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with sorrow the passing of the inspiring mother of Carl Glick, Chairman Emeritus and esteemed leader of the JASA Board for more than two decades. We extend our deepest sympathy to Carl, to his sister Ri
 GOLD-Leonard M. On October 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Lois M. Adored father of Eric M. Devoted son of Martha R. and the late Samuel M. Loving brother of Martin R. & uncle to David and Jonathan Gold and Joshua Stephens. A man of great sensitivity and love for his family and friends, he wil
 GRAHAM-Gordon. Peacefully on October 22, 1998 in Vero Beach, FL. He would have been 75 on Christmas Day. Devoted husband of Kirby Smith, loving father of Dianne Graham Kandiah, Jennifer Graham Haskell, and Gordon Jr. Proud grandfather of Olivia, Harrison and Ava. Dear uncle of Caroline, Vic
 KAPLAN-Arthur. Age 83. On October 29, 1998. Devoted husband of Phyllis for 53 years. Beloved father of Joanne & father-in-law of James Handloser. Dear brother of Philip Kaplan & brother-in-law of Eleanor Kaplan. Adored uncle of four nieces and nephews. Arthur was a WWII veteran, 349th Batal
 KLEINMAN-Kenneth R. Age 77, of NYC, died October 30, 1998. Beloved and cherished husband of Elaine for 56 years, inseperable companion, soulmate and confidant for 63 years. Graduate of Alfred Univeristy, one of the youngest Captains in the US Army-Air Force during WW II. Known in business f
 LEVINE-Mayer. Passed away peacefully at the age of 94 years. Beloved husband of the late Louise. Loving father of Herman and Ruth (Greenwald). Adored brother of Molly Feuer and the late Jack. Cherished grandfather of Susan, Peter and Alison. Great-grandfather of Morgan and Jared Levine. He 
 NIKOV-Sgt. Alexei. Yeshivat Sha'alvim in Israel mourns Sgt. Asher Nikov, alumnus of the Lycee Sha'alvim in Kharkov, Ukraine, a joint project of Yeshivat Sha'alvim and the Orthodox Union. There, and at the Joseph K. Miller Torah Center in Kharkov, Asher developed his love for Torah heritage 
 NOBBE-George, Jr. Died at Pawling, NY, of cancer, serenely and surrounded by friends, October 31, 1998. Born NYC, September 19, 1935. He attended St. Luke's School, New Canaan, CT; St. George's School, Newport, RI; Harvard College (Class of 1956); and Columbia University School of Journalis
 POLLACK-Irwin ''Irv.'' 77, of Seattle, died October 16 of heart failure. He was Business Manager at Yale University, graduate of CCNY, a progressive activist. He will be sorely missed. We might have had him longer if he were able to stop smoking. He is survived by his son Jordan of Port Tow
 TESHOME-Dr. Tewodros. The Medical Staff of Coler-Goldwater Hospital expresses great sorrow at the loss of our much respected colleague who passed away on October 28, 1998. A member of the Medical Staff since 1988, officer of the Medical Staff and Vice President of Roosevelt Island Medical A
 WYDEN-Peter. A memorial service to celebrate the life of Peter Wyden will be held at 11 AM, Monday, November 9, in the auditorium of the Graduate Center of City University, 33 W. 42 St., NYC. He is much loved and greatly missed.       
 Samuel Blum, a writer and a former editor in chief of the Doubleday Book Club, died on Oct. 22 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, his family said. He was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and was a graduate of Sy
 Bulldog Turner, the Chicago Bears Hall of Fame center and linebacker who played on four National Football League championship teams in the 1940's, died Friday at home in Gatesville, Tex. He was 79. Turner, who served as head coach of the New York Titans, the Jets' forerunners, in 19
 GOLD-Leonard M. On October 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Lois M. Adored father of Eric M. Devoted son of Martha R. and the late Samuel M. Loving brother of Martin R. & uncle to David and Jonathan Gold and Joshua Stephens. A man of great sensitivity and love for his family and friends, he wil
 GOLDFARB-David B. On October 30. Husband of Barbara. Beloved father of Mark, Eric and Mary Ellen. Cherished grandfather of Sara, Spencer and Jamie. A dedicated attorney, CPA, accomplished musician, photographer and avid golfer who always had a funny word to brighten everyone's day. He will 
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. Of Greenwich, CT, and Palm Beach, FL, died October 31, 1998. He is survived by his wife Rose, daughters Dale Claman and Marlene Green, and son Lee, and his sister Freida Olim. Also survived by five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Memorial service today at 10 AM
 LAVENTHALL-Donald I. On October 31, 1998, in New York, NY, after a long illness bravely borne. Beloved husband of Susan. Dearest father of Donald, Max, Danielle and Gillian, and stepfather of Tamar. Father-in-law of Cliff, Mark, Jeff, William and Donna. Adored grandfather of Sarah, Clint, A
 NOBBE-George, Jr. Died at Pawling, NY, of cancer, serenely and surrounded by friends, October 31, 1998. Born NYC, September 19, 1935. He attended St. Luke's School, New Canaan, CT; St. George's School, Newport, RI; Harvard College (Class of 1956); and Columbia University School of Journalis
 WEINBLATT-Donald H. Age 72. Of Highland Park, IL. Beloved husband of Sharon. He was a chemical engineer and Director of Environmental Affairs at Aimcor and a graduate of Cooper Union in NYC. Memorials to the Cancer Wellness Center in Northbrook, IL. For information, 815-886-2000.       
 Paul Misraki, a prolific French composer of songs and also of the soundtracks for over 150 films made by Orson Welles, Jean-Luc Godard, Roger Vadim and others, died on Thursday in Paris, where he lived. He was 90. The French honors he received included being made a Chevalier de la L
 Peter Griffin, who called himself a simple algebra teacher but had such a winning way with numbers that he unlocked the mathematics of blackjack with a wink and became a cult figure to a generation of casino card counters, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital near his home in Sacramento, Calif. Mr
 Harry Weese, a Chicago architect whose design for the Washington Metro system produced some of the most powerful public spaces of our time, died on Thursday at a veterans' home in Manteno, Ill. He was 83. A major figure in Chicago architecture and planning since the 1950's, Mr. Wees
 Norbert Wollheim, a tenacious Auschwitz survivor who went on to sue the Germans for compensation for his work as a slave laborer, then devoted his life to building a spirited movement of Holocaust survivors, died on Sunday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Fresh M
 BAUMAN-Dr. Arthur. On Nov. 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Caroline. Loving father of William, Andrew and Amy. Proud grandfather of Alissa, Laura, Jennifer, Jeremy, Brittany and Alexander. Internist and Endocrinologist. Services Tuesday 2PM at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchster, Westchester Av
 BREGMAN-Dr. Stanley M. Of South Orange, NJ, a devoted and beloved practitioner in optometry died Sunday in St. Barnabas Medical Center, Livingston, NJ. He was 75. Dr. Bregman was a world traveler, a gourmet cook, a gifted pianist and a patron of the arts. Dr. Bregman is survived by his wife
 CORNISH-Stanley D. On November 1, 1998. Of Rye, N.Y. Beloved husband of Lee Cornish. Brother of Richard and Dudley. Loving grandfather of Andrew S. Borrok. Graveside service will be held Wednesday, 10 A.M. at Mount Hope Cemetery, Hastings on Hudson, N.Y. CORNISH-Stanley D., Jr. Navy
 ELLIOTT-Charlotte. November 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Howard, his wife Lydia, & Richard Elliott. Cherished grandmother of Erika, Ben, Emily, Alex and Bianca. Cherished by many loving nieces and nephews. Reposing at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapels, 76th Road
 FISHER-I.R. ''Brownie'' 77. Husband of Jeannette Simmons Fisher. Died November 1 in Greenwich, CT. A memorial service will take place at 2 p.m. Thursday November 5, at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, 200 Riverside Ave. Riverside, CT. Memorial Contributions may be made in his memory to the Gree
 FUS-Msgr. Edward A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of Holy Cross Church, 61-21 56th Rd., Maspeth, on Nov, 1. Reposing at Megiel Funeral Home, 64-18 Flushing Ave., Maspeth, Tuesday, Nov. 3, from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M., and Wednesday, Nov. 4, from 2-5 P.M. Mass o
 GROSSMAN-Sidney. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sidney Grossman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Rose, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary       
 HABLEY-Peter C. Died at the Lenox Hill Hospital on October 30, 1998 at the age of 55. The husband of Andra Habley, he is also survived by sister Ann Felker, sister Gail Brownlee and brother Stuart Habley. He was a senior Human Resources Executive with Pfizer Inc., having served in overseas 
 LAVENTHALL-Donald I. On October 31, 1998, in New York, New York, after a long illness bravely borne. Beloved husband of Susan. Dearest father of Donald, Max, Danielle and Gillian, and stepfather of Tamar. Father-in-law of Cliff, Mark, Jeff, William and Donna. Adored grandfather of Sarah, Cl
 NIMMO-Richard F. ''Dick'' 82, of NYC, formerly of Stamford, CT. Passed away peacefully Sunday, November 1, 1998 at the Actor's Home in Englewood, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Joan (nee Etchinson). Loving father of Robert of River Vale, NJ, Joan of West New York, NJ and the late Richard F
 SHAW-Otho Stokes, 74, of New York City and Hampton Bays, L.I. Partner in Shaw & Draper, Inc., Interior Designers; Fellow American Society of Interior Designers; Past President Alumni Association of Parsons School of Design. Beloved friend and partner of Dede Draper. Beloved brother of Lavon
 SILVERMAN-Jack. Age 81, of Hollywood, FL., and New York. Passed away Nov. 1, 1998 after a sudden illness. Beloved husband of the late Florence. Loving father of Bonnie and Jeffrey Silverman and Joan and Ronald Silverman. Dear brother of Francine Edelson. Cherished grandmother of Susanna, Va
 STERN-Anna Bunin. The Officers, Board of Trustees, Affiliates, and Members of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst express their deep sorrow on the passing of Anna Bunin Stern, the mother of our esteemed Rabbi, Sholom Stern. We extend our sympathy to our Rabbi, his sisters and their entire family. 
 TASCH-Ralph Joshua, 86, of Palm Beach, formerly of New York City, passed away November 1, 1998. He served his country during World War II, then started a long career as CEO of Vita Food Products. He is survived by his three daughters, Wendy, Melissa and Amanda, with two loving grandchildren
 WEINTHAL-Henry, October 30, 1998 in Rochester, NY. Survived by his wife, Silvia; children, Erika Weinthal of Jerusalem, Israel, Benjamin Weinthal of Bronx & Lois Weinthal of Bloomfield Hills, MI; brother, Sigfried (Joyce) Weinthal of Pittsford, N.Y.; several nieces and nephews. Funeral serv
 WOLLHEIM-Norbert. On November 1, 1998. Husband of Charlotte, father of Ruth Wachter and Peter Wollheim, grandfather of Toby Wachter, stepfather of Peter and Jeffrey Sprung. Passed away surrounded by family and the respect and love of Holocaust survivors around the world, including those he 
 Rudolph J. Melone, whose career as a college administrator was overshadowed by his founding of the famed Gilroy Garlic Festival in Gilroy, Calif., died on Sept. 17 in San Francisco. He was 73. The cause was complications from cancer. In 1979, Dr. Melone started the festival,
 James L. Day, a former Marine Corps squad leader who belatedly won a Medal of Honor earlier this year for almost single-handedly killing more than 100 advancing Japanese at the height of the Battle of Okinawa and went on to become an unofficial ambassador of good will on the island, died on
 Jerry L. Schwartz, a journeyman journalist who was equally comfortable writing about baseball and Beethoven, died on Sunday at Northside Hospital in Atlanta. He was 51 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was complications from leukemia, said Jonathan Wax, a family friend. As the
 BLAKE-Vincent P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Vincent P. Blake, a life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 BROWN-Irwin R. ''Pete'', 71. Of Lake Worth, Florida. On October 31, 1998. Survived by Anita (nee Bronowitz), his adored wife of 48 years and by a family that loved and cherished him: daughter Cici Callahan of Cary, North Carolina, son Jeffrey of Palo Alto, CA. Sister Ann Stern of Boynton Be
 GLICK-Rose. The Board of Directors and staff of The New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA), extend heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board Member, Carl Glick and his family on the passing of his beloved mother, Rose. Our thoughts and prayers are with you in this time of so
 KARLIN-Robert. We note with sorrow the sudden passing of a dedicated volunteer and dear friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset       
 KOATZ-Angel Oscar, MD. The Medical Staff Society of the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends heartfelt sympathies to his family. Marvin Leder, MD, President Talat Addasi, MD, V.P. Gabriel DeAngelis, MD, Secretary-Treasurer    
 OXENBERG-Arthur. On November 2, 1998. Adored, cherished and loving husband of Susan, devoted father of Carla Israel, Jonathan and Philip. Dear grandfather of seven grandchildren. Services Wednesday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family requests that in li
 SCHRANK-Herb. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Herb Schrank on October 31st, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebo
 SHAW-Otho Stokes, 74, of New York City and Hampton Bays, L.I. Partner in Shaw & Draper, Inc., Interior Designers; Fellow American Society of Interior Designers; Past President Alumni Association of Parsons School of Design. Beloved friend and partner of Dede Draper. Beloved brother of Lavon
 TUCKER-Lyman B. Former ITT Executive died Oct. 26, 1998 in Sao Paolo, Brazil. He was 94. Also Managing Director, Fruehauf Trailer, S.A. and President AMF do Brazil, Lt. Col. U.S. Army, W.W. II, U.S. Military Representative, Allied Control Commission, Bucharest, Executive with ADELA, Sao Pao
 WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The Officers and Members of the Kindertransport Association mourn the passing of Norbert Wollheim who escorted many of us on the rescue trips from Nazi Germany to England. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family. Kurt Goldberger, President WOLLHEIM-Norbert. A 
 ZIMMER-Fred. Died peacefully on Nov. 2, 1998. Devoted husband of Anna ''Honey''; beloved father of Dr. Harold Zimmer and Phyllis Arn Zimmer of Bellevue, WA.; Sarah Chapman and Sam Chapman of Greenbrae, CA.; and Bonnie Zimmer and Jim Ptacek of Cambridge, MA. Proud grandfather of Allegra and 
 Aleksandr Bogatyrev, a former star of the Bolshoi Ballet who was its acting artistic director until this spring, died in Moscow on Oct. 11. He was 49 and lived in Moscow. The cause was a heart attack, friends in New York said. Mr. Bogatyrev won the admiration of American bal
 Alfred Mitchell Bingham, a well-born, well-heeled radical who made a broken field run through 20th century intellectual history, coming of age as a rock-ribbed Republican in the 1920's, veering left in the 1930's as a leader of the quest for an American-style collectivism, then returning to
 Bernard James Dwyer, a former Representative from New Jersey, died Saturday in Edison, N.J., at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center, which he had served as a trustee. He was 77 and, a longtime Edison resident, had lived in Metuchen, N.J., for the last few years. The cause was a heart
 Glenn E. Nielson, who built a petroleum and asphalt empire from a single leased oilfield and a closed oil refinery it served in Cody, Wyo., died on Oct. 19 at his home in Cody, according to Margaret Ruth Bullock, his daughter. He was 95. Mr. Nielson found partners to help him buy wh
 Lee P. Gagliardi, a senior judge of Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York who presided over the historic trial of two former Nixon Cabinet members, John N. Mitchell and Maurice H. Stans, on criminal-conspiracy charges in 1974, died on Friday at his home in Manchester,
 SILBER-Robert, M.D., age 67, on November 3, 1998 in Durham, North Carolina. Formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Barbara Kamhi Silber. Devoted father of Andrea (Phillip) Dickey, Jeffrey (Linda) Silber, Laura (Dusan Knezevic) Silber, and Michael Silber. Caring stepfather of Jay (Cat
 WENIG-Jerome. Beloved husband of Dolores. Loving father of Debra and Howard Ross and Howard and Tracy Wenig. Cherished grandfather of Leslie, Amy, and Andrew Ross and Laura and Rachel Wenig. Service today, 10:00 AM at Beth El Synagogue, North Avenue and Northfield Road, New Rochelle, New Yo
 BINGHAM-Alfred M. 93, of Clinton, New York, died Monday, November 2, 1998 at his home. A memorial service will be held Saturday, November 28 at 11 AM at the Hamilton College Chapel, Clinton. For information OwensPavlot Funeral Service, Inc.       
 Larry Ellis, the head coach of the 1984 United States Olympic men's track and field team, the first African-American head coach in any Ivy League sport and the former president of track and field's national governing body, died Wednesday at his home in Skillman, N.J. He was 70. He h
 CORCORAN-Francis L. On November 4, 1998, of Locust Valley, New York, (Princeton, Class of '22) retired Executive Vice President and Director of Rockefeller Center, Inc., died peacefully at home in his 100th year. Survived by his son, Anthony Corcoran and his wife, Sandra Towl Corcoran of Pi
 FRASER-Bert H. We mourn the loss of one of our most delightful members. He was terrific company in The Grill, a wonderful story teller and a great guy. He will be missed. The Players       
 JORDAN-Randy, 33, New York, NY. Bassist, songwriter and arranger Mark Randall Jordan who had been a founding member of the New York based alternative pop band, PAXTON, died peacefully in his sleep on October 30th following a 2 year battle with liver cancer. He was 33 years old. The Lamar, M
 RIKER-John L. The New York Society of Mayflower Descendants mourn the death of John L. Riker, Deputy Governor General and Member of our Board of Assistants. His many years of devoted service are greatly appreciated. His presence and thoughtful advice will be sorely missed. Walter R. Brewste
 SANDSON-John, M.D. Dr. Sandson, a distinguished 1953 graduate of the Washington University School of Medicine, had postgraduate training at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1953-56, and then came to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, in time becoming a Professor of Medicine i
 SMITH-Mayo P. of Chappaqua, Executive Vice President Finance and Administration for Independent Television Network, Inc. (ITN) died of lung cancer on November 4th, 1998 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center. He was 59. Mr. Smith previously held positions at Eastman Radio, Inc., Peat, Marw
 WOLFSON-George, 61. Of Darien, CT., and Del Mar, CA. A retired broadcasting executive with Viacom Radio International, he died suddenly Wednesday, November 4 in Key Biscayne, FL. A graduate of Brown University and Lt. Junior Grade in the U.S. Navy, he is survived by his wife, Mornie; a daug
 WOLLHEIM-Norbert. We mourn the loss of our friend and Secretary, a Holocaust survivor and dedicated fighter for justice and the rights of Nazi victims. American Federation of Jews from Central Europe WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The World Federation of the Bergen-Belsen Survivors mourn the pas
 SHUMAN-Andrew John. July 16, 1970-November 6, 1988. Died at 18 years old. We will always be grateful for his life. In loving memory, his Parents, Siblings and Friends       
 Ramon Grau Alsina, who helped organize an undercover operation code-named Pedro Pan that smuggled thousands of children to the United States from Cuba in the early years of the Castro Government, died Tuesday night in Miami, his home for the last 12 years. He would have been 76 on S
 Bob Kane, the cartoonist who created Batman the Caped Crusader and his sidekick, Robin the Boy Wonder, died on Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. Batman and Robin, the characters that Mr. Kane created with his partner, Bill Fin
 Bob Trow, an actor who helped usher two generations of children through their formative years as a member of the cast of ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,'' died on Monday at his home in New Alexandria, Pa. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said David Newell, who plays Mr. McFee
 Jack Hartman, who led Kansas State to more basketball victories than any other coach in school history, and who coached the Knicks' great Walt Frazier at Southern Illinois, died yesterday morning at St. Vincent Hospital in Sante Fe, N.M. He was 73. According to a radio report, the c
 Luther Jerstad, an Oregon mountain guide and member of the first American team to reach the top of Mount Everest, in 1963, died last Saturday in Nepal on a trek up Mount Kala Pattar, a much lesser cousin in the Great Himalayan Range. He was 61 and lived in Portland. News reports fro
 BROWN-George, MD, formerly of Riverdale, NY, and Marlboro, VT, passed peacefully in Lenox, MA, after a prolonged illness. He leaves his wife Jeanne; two children, Richard and Hillary; a sister Gertrude, and two grandchildren, Eliot and Nicholas. Services will be private. Donations may be se
 CORCORAN-Francis L. On November 4, 1998, of Locust Valley, New York, (Princeton, Class of '22) retired Executive Vice President and Director of Rockefeller Center, Inc., died peacefully at home in his 100th year. Husband of the late Carel DeBevoise Corcoran, survived by his son, Anthony Cor
 ISAACSON-Robert L. On Nov. 5, 1998 at home in Manhattan. He was an urbane figure well-known to enthusiasts of 19th-century academic painting. A Requiem Mass will be held at Saint Ignatius Loyola on Park Avenue, November 10th at 11:00 AM. Donations in his memory may be made to the Jacob Perl
 JONES-Edward Powis. On November 5th. Husband of Anne. Father of Elizabeth Jones White, Edward Powis Jones, Jr., and Peter C. Jones. Brother of Frances H. Jones and the late Henry McNeven Jones. Grandfather of David C. Landreth, Sarah P. Landreth, and Daniel M. Jones. Services private. Contr
 KELLER-Abraham. The Officers and Staff of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Abraham Keller, our first comptroller and chief administrator. He was a founding father of development Corporation for Israel. Our condolences to his family. Gideon Patt, President & CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman 
 REY-Eugene C. May 15, 1900-Nov. 2, 1998. Left this garden for the next to join his beloved wife, Antoinette, leaving a large, thriving and loving family tree. Children Eugene Rey and wife Margaret, Lenore Rey and husband Marc Stoller; grandchildren Victoria and Eddie Hayes, Peggy and Steve 
 SHAPIRO-Ivan. The New York Society for Ethical Culture records with sorrow the death of their former President, Trustee and member on November 4, 1998. Mr. Shapiro was a much respected lawyer and civil libertarian. We extend our sympathy to his wife Maria and his family. A memorial service 
 WARD-Ted M. The New York Financial Writers Association regrets the passing of its longtime member and former president. The Association wishes to express its deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Susan Lisovicz, President       
 WOLFSON-George, 61. Of Darien, CT., and Del Mar, CA. A retired broadcasting executive with Viacom Radio International, he died suddenly Wednesday, November 4 in Key Biscayne, FL. A graduate of Brown University and Lt. Junior Grade in the U.S. Navy, he is survived by his wife, Mornie; a daug
 YANOVER-Gordon H. died suddenly at the Kingston General Hospital on Thursday, November 5th, in his 88th year. Husband of the late Katherine Brown and Grace Layzell. Beloved father of Judy Elman (Michael) of Montreal, Gail Yanover of New York, Jerry Yanover of Ottawa. Stepfather of Pat Ainsl
 Szeming Sze, a former director of the United Nations Health Service who helped build the World Health Organization into a specialized United Nations agency, died on Oct. 27 at Presbyterian Senior Care, at Presbyterian Medical Center in suburban Pittsburgh. Dr. Sze was 90 and most recently l
 ALSOP-McLallen. On October 29, 1998. Son of the late Dr. and Mrs. Wilson E. Alsop. Devoted husband of Carolyn. Beloved father of Kirstin, Ian, and Galen, and loving brother of Suzanne Mugler. Contributions in his memory may be made to Trinity Presbyterian Church, Fairhope, AL. 36532.       
 ELLIS-Larry. The New York Road Runners Club mourns the passing of our friend Larry Ellis, a pillar of the sport of track and field and long distance running. A runner of star quality, he used his talents to develop and coach generations of new runners and Olympic athletes. His administrativ
 FOGEL-Edward A. Died November 6, 1998. Partner, Pryor, Cashman, Sherman & Flynn. Trustee, Camp Isabella Friedman, American Jewish Society for Service, Fund for Peace, Hoff Barthelson Music School, and Chess-in-theSchools. He was active in the NYC Bar Association. A former adjunct professor 
 HOLMES-Walter S., Jr. Financier, age 79, retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CIT Financial Corporation, died on November 3, 1998, at Delray Beach, FL, where he retired in 1984. Holmes also served as corporate trustee of Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA from 1974-1994, when he wa
 HONIG-Lawrence M., Esq. On October 18th. In the courts and in life itself, a Special Master and true radical: he actually believed in justice, fairness and friendship. H.E.S. and Friends       
 ISAACSON-Robert L. On Nov. 5, 1998 at home in Manhattan. He was an urbane figure well-known to enthusiasts of 19th-century academic painting. A Requiem Mass will be held at Saint Ignatius Loyola on Park Avenue, November 10th at 11:00 AM. Donations in his memory may be made to the Jacob Perl
 LETO-Andre. 59. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL. Died November 2, 1998 at home. Son of the late John J. and Helen Leto of Port Washington, NY. After a courageous battle with acute leukemia. A former resident of Manhattan and Vice President of Prudential Bache Securities. Mr. Leto was an alumni of Ne
 LEVY-Irving. On November 6, 1998, of Valley Stream, NY. Beloved husband of Janet for 61 years. Devoted father of Ben (Marcia), Morton (Joanne), Herb (Lynn), and Stewart (Fran). Dear brother of David. Cherished grandfather of Sharon and Marc; Gayle and Cara; Alana and Daniel; Rebecca, Matthe
 LINCOLN-Ashe Q.C. The officers and staff of Plaza Memorial Chapel extend sincere condolences to Rabbi David Lincoln on the loss of his beloved father. May his memory be for a blessing. Andrew Fier, Pres.       
 MULLER-Rainer. Friday, December 13, 1941-Friday, October 30, 1998. Passed away in Toronto in the presence and love of his wife Marilyn and his daughters Veruschka and Bianca. He will be dearly missed.       
 MULVIHILL-Charles J. 84, October 15, 1998. Detroit musician, Golden Gloves medalist, Ford Motor Company administrator. Husband of Esther Byrne. Father of Charles, Daniel (Virginia), Maureen (Daniel R. Harris), Karen, Lawrence, Thomas, James, John (Sandra), Francis (Susan). Grandfather of My
 PEAKE-F.R. ''Robin'' Age 85. Died of cancer on November 1st in Tequesta, FL. Born in Racine, WI, the eldest son of William W. and Betty R. Peake, Robin spent his early life in Rye, NY, where he attended Rye Country Day School. He later graduated from the Hotchkiss School, from Yale College 
 RUECKER-Gunter. On October 21, 1998 in Greenwich, Connecticut after a short illness. Gunter was a fashion designer and teacher at The Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. Mourning his premature passing are his wife Helga and daughter Tanya, son Oliver and family, sister Anne an
 SHAPIRO-Ivan. The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourns the passing of Ivan Shapiro, a mainstay and former Vice Chairman of the GSUC Board of Visitors. We benefited greatly from his faith in the larger vision, his generosity of spirit, his commitmen
 SHULTZ-Abraham, November 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Cecile, loving father of Ellen and Stuart and his wife Cherida. Cherished and beloved grandfather of Simon and Oliver, devoted brother of Meyer and Manny Shultz. Service Sunday, November 8, 1998 10:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 STERNBACH-Louis, age 90, died on November 1, 1998. He resided in Westport, CT, and Delray Beach, FL, and was both an attorney and CPA. He was married to Ruth Sternbach, recently deceased. He had three children, Dorothy Sternbach, Julia Sternbach, and Willa Rosenberg. He founded the Manhatta
 STINNETT-Caskie. Travel editor, writer, humorist, nature and animal lover. On November 5, 1998 at home, of cancer. Survived by wife Joan, son Jim, daughters Karen (Aschi) and Savannah, sisters Happy and Thelma and grandsons Jonathan, David and Nathaniel. Private ceremony will take place on 
 GREENBERG-Abraham H. Memorial service will be held at the 5th Ave Synagogue, 11 E. 11 St, Nov. 15, 1 PM. He was a two term Chairman of SCORE, teacher of entrepreneurship in the high schools of New York City, philanthropist, father, family mentor.       
 Stan Wright, the track coach who took the blame for the disqualification of two American sprinters who showed up late for their races in the 1972 Munich Olympics, died on Friday night at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. He was 78. ''His kidneys just shut down,'' said his da
 Tommy Flowers, a British civil servant with a genius for electronics whose pioneering Colossus computers enabled the Allies to decode top-level German military communications in World War II, died on Oct. 28 at his home in London. He was 92. The Colossus machines were once described
 Francisco Sainz, an artist and member of the Abstract Expressionist circle in New York City and East Hampton, N.Y., died on Oct. 20 in East Hampton. He was 75. He had a heart attack while taking his morning walk, his family said. Born in 1923 in Santander, Spain, Mr. Sainz, 
 Louis P. Daniel, who tried to bring the food and atmosphere of the best bistros of Paris to Le Chambertin, the classic French restaurant he operated for many years in Manhattan, died at his home in Phoenicia, N.Y., on Oct. 29. He was 77. He had been suffering from cancer for many ye
 BENDER-William, 69, of Fort Pierce, Fla., died November 5, 1998. A native of New York, he came to Ft. Pierce from NY 10 years ago. He was an apartment building manager in New York City. Survivors include sister, Lillian Bender of NY; niece, Deborah Egan of Sayreville, NJ; nephews, Richard a
 BILOFSKY-Joseph. Age 81, beloved husband of Pearl, devoted father of Walter and Ellen, adored grandfather of Jessica and Alexander. A lifelong resident of NYC, he was a veteran of World War II, combat medic, for many years a leader in the taxi industry, vice president of the League of Mutua
 EASTON-Dr. Robert A. Of New York City, passed away November 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Claire Barry; loving father of Lynn (Jerry) Gelber, Larry Easton, and Joy (Stanley) Pargman. He was cherished by his grandchildren Keith and Craig Gelber, and Kimberly and Brett Pargman. Graveside servic
 FOGEL-Edward A. The Board of Directors and staff of Camp Isabella Freedman and the Jewish Retreat Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Ed Fogel, a longtime member of our Board. Our sincere condolences to his wife Barbara, his children Jim and Jan, and the entire Fogel family. Marily
 PARKER-George, Jr. Of San Antonio and Dallas, TX. Died on November 7, 1998, in Dallas, TX. He is survived by his brothers Joseph B. Parker and wife, Mary Anne, John M. Parker and wife, Patricia, William A. Parker and wife, Camilla; sister-in-law Mrs. Harry J. Parker; and numerous nieces and
 POWERS-Rev. Msgr. Raymond T. Age 71, pastor of St. John the Evangalist Church, Mahopac, NY, November 7, at his residence. Son of Edward J. and Mary McCann Powers. Brother of Edwin J. and John V. Powers; also survived by several nieces, nephews, grandnieces, and grandnephews. Born in the Bro
 SCHWARTZ-Andrew. Aegis Realty Corp. mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Andy. His dedication, humor and friendship will be sorely missed.       
 SPIZZ-Ruben. Devoted husband of Rachel for more than 60 years. Loving father of Norman, Mara, Gwendolyn and the late Lynn. Loving brother of Conrad, Sally, Lynn, the late Jack and the late Rene Bergstein. Irving Bergstein, Rene's husband was a very good friend. He leaves nieces and nephews,
 STRAUSS-Isidore. Died November 7, 1998, at age 86. Beloved father, grandfather, husband, companion, brother and friend. Dearly loved by all whose lives he touched. We all cherish his memory and know he will be in our hearts forever. Poppa, we miss you and love you. Services today, 12 noon, 
 Patrick J. Frawley Jr., a high school dropout who made millions of dollars in business, gave millions to conservative causes and candidates, then made it his business and his life's work to combat alcohol and drug addiction, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 75 an
 Walter George Berl, a chemist whose research included high-energy ram-jet fuels and international firefighting programs, died on Oct. 24 while vacationing in Durango, Colo. He was 81 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was heart failure, said a spokesman for Johns Hopkins Universit
 Wendell Chino, the longtime president of the Mescalero Apache Nation who helped to lift his tribe from tar-paper shack poverty with his persuasive style of ''red capitalism,'' died on Wednesday at the Santa Monica-U.C.L.A. Medical Center in California. He was 74. Mr. Chino had suffe
 Jean Marais, who became one of France's most popular movie and theater actors thanks to his close friendship with the Surrealist poet and artist Jean Cocteau, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cannes. He was 84 and lived in Vallauris on the French Riviera. Initially, Mr. Marais's grea
 Lord Hunt of Llanfairwaterdine, who led the expedition in 1953 in which Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first people to reach the top of Mount Everest, died on Sunday at home in Henley, England, his family said. He was 88. Lord Hunt, then Colonel John Hunt of the Br
 ABRAMSON-Matthew Steven. On Nov. 9, 1998. Beloved son of Dr. David and Stephanie Abramson, brother of Hilary. Services private. ABRAMSON-Matthew. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the untimely death of our beloved member Matthew Abramson. We will remember his brilliance, vitality an
 ATTELL-Harold. Central Synagogue of Nassau County sorrowfully announces the passing of its longtime member and past president and extends to his beloved family its sincerest sympathy. Rabbi Julian I. Cook Judith D. Race, President       
 BOTTE-Frank. Of New York City and Easthampton. Died on November 8 at New York Hospital at the age of 56. The beloved son of Marie Amerosa, he is also survived by his devoted companion of many years, Stacy Charles. ''You are a child of the universe, no less than the trees and the stars...be 
 BROCHSTEIN - Samuel. Loving husband of Esther, loving father of Lois and Arnold, and Phyllis. Cherished grandfather of Nancy and Susan, great grandfather of Maxwell. Beloved brother and brother-in-law of Harry and Leah. Funeral services Tuesday, 1 PM at Temple Israel of Great Neck, 108 Old 
 de PAUR-Leonard. It is with great sadness that The Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Leonard de Paur, former Director of Community Relations for Lincoln Center, a position he held for 17 years. His creative vision and commitment to
 DUGGAN-Stephen Pierce, Jr. Died peacefully on November 8, 1998 in Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of the late Beatrice Abbott Duggan, brother of the late Mary Hodder, Laurence Duggan, and Sally Duggan Webb, father of Stephen Pierce Duggan III, Marianne Bell O'Brien, Peter M. Duggan, Hayden 
 GERBER-Joshua B. Died suddenly on November 7, 1998 at age 24. Loving son of Paul and Anita and brother of Amanda. Interment is private. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 GREGG-William Kirker. Of Keene Valley, NY (formerly Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ), died November 7th after a long illness. Mr. Gregg was born July 11, 1921, to Juliette (Kirker) and Otis Gregg in Hackensack, NJ. He was a World War II veteran and industrialist, manufacturing railroad cars for The Gregg Com
 KRASNER-David H. A former Schenley Industries marketing executive. Died on November 5 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. During his lengthy retirememt, he volunteered with the International Executive Service Corps as a consultant helping businesses in developing countries and the pri
 LEVINSON-Sol R., November 15, 1903 to November 9, 1998. Beloved husband of 67 years to Belle. Devoted and deeply loved father to his two daughters Bonnie Joan (Liebmann) and Marcia Audrey (DiMartino). Loving and respected grandfather of Marc, Douglas and Michael (Hochlerin) and David and Ad
 MANSON-Julius. Deeply caring and loving father of Paul Manson, David Manson and Carol Bier; adoring grandfather of Ezra, Jenny and Elisha; beloved brother of Ceil Mofenson; admiring uncle of Laura Zeitlin, Jane Henderson and many others. Contributions in his memory to Hebrew Free Loan Socie
 PARKER-George Jr. Of San Antonio and Dallas, Texas died on November 7, 1998 in Dallas, Texas. He is survived by his brothers Joseph B. Parker and wife Mary Anne, John M. Parker and wife Patricia; William A. Parker and wife Camilla, his sister-in-law Mrs. Harry J. Parker and numerous nieces 
 PROBST-Michael L. On November 7, 1998. The New York University School of Continuing and Professional Studies is saddened by the passing of Michael Probst who died peacefully at home following a long illness. His devotion and exemplary performance as an employee of NYU since 1978, was recogn
 SHAPIRO-Ivan. Urban Pathways notes with sorrow the death of Ivan Shapiro, its esteemed past President. Through his active leadership and enthusiasm, Ivan Shapiro played an important role in the growth of Urban Pathways. We will continue to strive to meet the high standards he set for honest
 STARR-Louis. Age 91. Died on November 8, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Abbey Kissel Starr of Far Hills, N.J. and his brother, Ogden Parrish Starr of Antigua, W.I. Mr. Starr is also survived by his daughter, Frances Starr Todd and her children, Mary Starr and Christopher Bray and his dau
 TINDEL-Seymour, M.D., J.D. 70 years old. Of Kings Point, NY. On November 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara, proud and loving father of Michael and Nathaniel, and cherished brother of Martin. Dr. Tindel practiced medicine and surgery in the Bronx for over 30 years and taught at the Albert 
 WANDERER-Bruno. 94. Of New York City died Saturday, Nov. 7, 1998. Beloved father of Susan W. Uram and proud grandfather of Alison and Michael Uram. He is also survived by his sister, Jetty Richter and his brother, Max Wanderer. Incredibly devoted to his family and to The West Side Instituti
 Hal Newhouser, the Detroit Tigers' Hall of Fame left-hander and the only pitcher to win two consecutive Most Valuable Player awards, died yesterday at Providence Hospital in Southfield, Mich. He was 77. Newhouser, who lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., had been suffering from emphyse
 Leonard de Paur, a conductor of choruses and orchestras, an arranger and an administrator who for 17 years was the director of community relations for Lincoln Center, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. de Paur created the popular Lincoln Cent
 BROCHSTEIN-Samuel S. Nov. 9, 1998. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member Samuel and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife Esther and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President   
 BUXBAUM-Howard H., M.D. 70. Died on November 3rd, 1998. Born in Alendorf, Germany in 1928, he immigrated in 1938. A dedicated pedatrician, his greatest joy was his grandchildren: Sivan GordonBuxbaum, Harper and Marshall Feingold. He is survived by first wife, Diane D. Buxbaum, his second wi
 de PAUR-Leonard. It is with great sadness that The Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Leonard de Paur, former Director of Community Relations for Lincoln Center, a position he held for 17 years. His creative vision and commitment to
 DUGGAN-Stephen P. The Institute of International Education joins the Duggan family in mourning the loss of Stephen P. Duggan, an extraordinary individual whose dedication to the Institute was unparalleled. Mr. Duggan served as a Trustee, and then as a Life Trustee for almost 50 years and wa
 FOGEL-Edward A. Distinguished Trustee, loyal supporter, dedicated volunteer. He loved the children and they loved him. Lewis B. Cullman, Chairman, Chess-in-the-Schools       
 FORGOSH-Milton (Mike). Beloved and worshipped husband of Irma. Devoted & cherished father of Helene and husband Edward. Adoring grandfather of Tracy, Sandi and Corey. Caring brother of Sylvia Eis, the late Gertrude Forgosh, Harold Forgosh, and Penny Gurfein. He was a remarkably strong, thou
 HANDLER-Prof. Milton. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Adler Handler. Devoted father of Carole. Loving grandfather of Alisa and Ilana Schoenbach, and dear uncle. Service Thursday, 11AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St and Madison Ave, NYC. HANDLER-Milton. We deeply mourn the loss
 ITZKOFF-Jack S. Of Ocala, Florida. In his seventieth year. Beloved husband of Isabel. Cherished son of the late Nathan and Jennie Itzkoff. Dear brother of Tedda Kessler and Felice Itzkoff. Loving uncle and stepfather. Graveside services Thursday, November 12, 10:30 AM, King David Cemetery, 
 LANDIS-Leonard R. Age 75. On November 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Elayne. Loving and proud father of Carolyn, Dean and his wife Mara, Andrew and his wife Hilary. Devoted grandfather of Teddy. Dear brother of Donald. A resident of both Manhattan and Sagaponack, he was a leader in commercial
 LAULER-David P., M.D., 67, of Old Lyme, CT. died on Sunday, November 8, 1998 in Dallas, TX while attending a meeting of the American Heart Association. Dr. Lauler's medical career spanned over forty years in patient care, research, academia, medical education, and hospital staff administrat
 MONTGOMERY-Lynn Douglas. Age 71, died peacefully November 9 at his home in Lake Placid, New York. Survived by his wife, Julie and his children Chris, Drew, Julia and Elizabeth, and grandson Ross. His intelligence, creativity, energy and spirit are within us all. He will be greatly missed.  
 PENNYBACKER-Miles, 97. Of Westport, CT., on Monday, November 9. Beloved husband of Jean Rodney Pennybacker, father of Anne Watts, Bruce Pennybacker and Claire Wilson. He is also survived by 6 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Red Barn Restaurant
 RICHKIN-Gerald (Jerry). It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Gerald Richkin, 150 West 96th Street, New York, NY 10025. The funeral will be held on Wednesday Nov 11, 1998 at 12 noon at The Plaza Memorial Funeral Home, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Jerry was an actor a
 RICHKIN-Jerry. He was a devoted, caring husband, father and grandfather. He was also our beloved dear friend. We followed his acting career and cheered all his successes. His memory will be with us always. We extend our love to the family. The Wellfleet Family       
 SIMONYI-Elmer, 97, of Southold, Long Island, NY, died on Tuesday, November 10, 1998. He was formerly of Great Neck. He was born June 20, 1901 in Budapest, Hungary, son of the late Sigmund and Frances Simonyi. He was a graduate of Columbia University in New York, NY. He retired as President 
 SOHMER-Robert G. Died November 8, 1998 in Rock, WV after a brief bout with cancer. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on August 16, 1925 to Laura Siecke and George F. Sohmer. He is survived by his wife, the former Helen Faulkner; three children, Robert G. Sohmer, Jr. of Fairfield, CT, Deborah Sohm
 STRAUSS-Isidore. The Members and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed counsel, Arthur Strauss and his entire family, on the passing on November 7th, 1998 of Arthur's father, Isidore. His kindness and good humor are a legend shaping the lives of all who knew
 WERNER-Harvey. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Harvey Werner, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 YOUNG-Dr. Daniel M. November 8, 1998. Survived by his parents and sister of Woonsocket, R.I., his wife, Mary Monroe, of Yonkers, two daughters, two stepsons, and five grandchildren. Admired and cherished by his family, friends, and colleagues, and by the many whose lives he touched as Jungi
 RAILING-Lewis Ira. A memorial service for Mr. Lewis Ira Railing, formerly of New York City, will be held on Friday, November 13, 1998, at 10:00 A.M., at the Drake Hotel, 440 Park Avenue. Mr. Railing died September 24, 1998 at the Newport Hospital, in Newport, Rhode Island. Mrs. Dorrie Richa
 Harry Markson, a soft-spoken and scholarly type who spent 40 years in Madison Square Garden's often garish and turbulent boxing world, presiding over it for a quarter-century, died on Tuesday night at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 92. When Mr. Markson was made director
 Milton Handler, a leading antitrust expert and drafter of some of the nation's best-known laws, died on Tuesday. He was 95. Professor Handler suffered a stroke on Thursday, said his daughter, Carol E. Handler. Professor Handler, who taught at Columbia University Law School f
 BARISH-Samuel N. On November 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Blanche Guggenheimer Barish. Father of Joan Klonsky andWilliam Barish. He was a 70-year resident of the city of White Plains, where he practiced law. Services Friday, November 13th, 1 P.M., Temple Kol Ami, 225 Soundview Aven
 BERGER-John. The best and most beloved of men mourned by children, grandchildren & great grandchildren whose lives he shared and who will always feel the loss of his presence. The Berger and Lobel Families       
 FORGOSH-Milton (Mike). Beloved and worshipped husband of Irma. Devoted & cherished father of Helene and husband Edward. Adoring grandfather of Tracy, Sandi and Corey. Caring brother of Sylvia Eis, the late Gertrude Forgosh, Harold Forgosh, and Penny Gurfein. He was a remarkably strong, thou
 HANDLER-Prof. Milton. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Adler Handler. Devoted father of Carole. Loving grandfather of Alisa and Ilana Schoenbach, and dear uncle. Service Thursday, 11AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St and Madison Ave, NYC. HANDLER-Milton. The entire Beth Israel M
 HERTZ-Bruce. Age 46. Died on Nov. 11, 1998 peacefully at home in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Berryl Fox; devoted father of Matthew; son of Phyllis Hertz and the late Milton Hertz; brother of Debra and Barbara Hertz, and Nancy Good. He was Senior Counsel at the Bank of New York and one of 
 HISKEY-Clarence F., PhD. 86. Of Guilford, CT. Chemist and Professor of Chemistry at University of Tennessee, Columbia University, Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. Worked for Tennessee Valley Authority and Manhattan Project. Director of Analytical Research at Endo Laboratories. Survived by ch
 KAMINSKY-David. Of Fort Lee, NJ, died of cancer Tuesday night, Nov. 10. He was a graduate of City College of NY. An accountant, he built a successful private practice of corporate and individual clients. He is survived by his wife Mildred, also of Fort Lee, a daughter Sue, and two grandchil
 KWARTLER-Allan S. Of Yonkers, on November 11, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Connie; his son, Jeffrey Kwartler; two daughters, Anne Kwartler and Alison Bottini; and four grandchildren, David, Brian, Shelbie, and Andrew. Visitation at the Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., Eastchester, on Th
 LANDIS-Leonard R. Age 75. On November 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Elayne. Loving and proud father of Carolyn, Dean and his wife Mara, Andrew and his wife Hilary. Devoted grandfather of Teddy. Dear brother of Donald. A resident of both Manhattan and Sagaponack, he was a leader in commercial
 LEVINSON-Sol R. I am deeply saddened by the passing of my friend, my mentor, & my partner. His wits, compassion, and loyal support will always be remembered. The lesson he taught me long ago will always be part of my life. My heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Belle, his daughter, Marcia, and 
 MANNES-Bernard. He is survived by his loving wife, Estelle; his dear children, Lon and Susan, Jessica and Murray and Eric and Betty, and his five beloved grandchildren, David, Dayno, Aaron, Adam and Liane. He will be sorely missed by family and friends alike. Service Friday, November 13, 10
 MANSON-Julius J., Ph.D. We are saddened by the loss of our dear friend and President of our Humanist Chapter, Dr. Julius Manson, long associated with social justice and humanitarian causes and the international Esperanto movement. Chapter members will miss this kindly gentleman with his qui
 MILLER-Donald L. On November 11, 1998. His many friends were warmed by his love and are saddened by his death.       
 PYERON-Joseph J., Sr. Died November 9, 1998 in his sleep after a full day of work. Husband of the late Tessie and survived by his two brothers, Stan and John and his two children, Ruth and Joseph, Jr. He served as a marine in WWII and was a machinist for a defense contractor by career. View
 SCULLY-Francis Paul, Jr, age 73, of Marblehead, MA., & Stonington, ME. Died Monday, November 9 in Maine. He is survived by his wife Anne (Harmon) of Marblehead; a daughter, Tara S. Rockefeller of New York City; two sons, Francis P. Scully, III of Marblehead and John H. Scully of New York Ci
 SHAPIRO-Ivan. The Board of Directors and the staff of the NY Civil Liberties Union (NYCLU) are deeply saddened by the death of our former board member, Treasurer and friend. We extend condolence to his wife Maria and his daughters Lisa Kubiske and Alexandra Shapiro. Ivan was a committed civ
 STATELMAN-Richard T. On November 10, 1998. Following his 15 year career in the banking industry, he dedicated his life to the struggle against AIDS. He headed first the Brooklyn then the Bronx AIDS network. He is the beloved son of Edward and Genevieve Statelman. Richard touched the lives o
 WEISS-Robert was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, and was a 1982 graduate of Teaneck H.S. He began his undergraduate degree at University of Southern California and graduated from the NYU Tisch School of the Arts. He received a masters degree from the American Film Institute in screenwritin
 Frankie (Mr. Zero) Brimsek, the Boston Bruins' Hall of Fame goaltender who was renowned for a remarkable string of shutouts during his first weeks in the National Hockey League, died Wednesday at his home in Virginia, Minn. He was 85 and one of the first American-born players to star in the
 Gerald Long, who as general manager of the Reuters news agency in the 1960's presided over its transformation from a hand-to-mouth wire service to a profitable, computer-age news organization, died in Paris on Sunday, Reuters said. He was 75. When Mr. Long took over at Reuters in 19
 CALLAHAN-Frederic L. Died on November 10, 1998 after a brief illness. Retired Associate Professor of Education and English, Lehman College, CUNY. Beloved husband of Louise (nee Samoyedna). Loving father of Siobhan, Alison and Evin. Dear brother of Lenore O'Shea and Paul, and the late Joan F
 GRODENCHIK-Nathan. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. The light from his love will shine forever in our hearts. Services on Friday, November 13, 10:30 AM, Sinai Chapels, Fresh Meadows.       
 LEVINE-Eric G. Cherished son of Celia and the late Bernard S. Beloved brother of Mark and dear friend of Harold Goldstein, dear cousin of Heymans, Alperins, Rosens, Feldsteins, Groissers, friend of countless Sunnysiders for whom he built a commmunity with his spade, pruning shears, personal
 LEVINSON-Sol R. Charles Uribe and Jerome Gannon, the staff and members of AJ Contracting Inc, mourns the passing of its beloved ex-Chairman, Sol R. Levinson. He was a good friend and an inspiration to us all. He was indispensable to the growth of this firm, and his enduring wisdom and knowl
 PENN-Edward P. On November 10, 1998. Survived by his nephew Michael and niece Pamela. Reposing at Walter B. Cooke-Kennedy Funeral Home, 117 West 72nd Street, NYC, Saturday 2PM-9PM. Memorial service on Wednesday, 11 A.M. at funeral home.       
 RIGGS-Thomas Jeffries, Jr. On November 5, 1998 at age 82. The husband of 50 years to Virginia Griggs Riggs. He was a decorated Veteran of W.W. II, serving as Commander of the 81st Combat Engineers Battalion of the 106th Infantry in the Battle of the Bulge. Colonel Riggs was central in the b
 SOPHER-Morris. Passed away on November 11, 1998. The American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Morris Sopher. He was a man whose sterling qualities, generosity of spirit, and profound compassion endeared him to all. He was a Board member, avid supporter of 
 STATELMAN - Richard. The clients, staff and board of Bronx AIDS Services extend their condolences to the family of Richard Statelman. Bronx AIDS Services exists in a large part because of his vision.       
 STRASSFELD-Frank E. It is with profound sorrow that the Hollis Hills Jewish Center announces the passing of our beloved ''Shames'' Rev. Frank E. Strassfeld, at the age of 75. For 49 extraordinary years, Frank has served our community with devotion, sincerity and passion. He was and always w
 Stephen Pierce Duggan, the founding chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a leader in the fight that preserved the scenic Storm King Mountain from development, died on Sunday at Cornwall Hospital in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. A longtime Cornwall resident, he was 89 and formerl
 Tim Greathouse, a leading figure of the East Village art scene of the 1980's, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS-related complications, said Kathe Burkhart, a friend. Mr. Greathouse first showed his own photographs, many documenting life 
 Elvis J. Stahr Jr., an educator and environmentalist who was a Secretary of the Army in the Kennedy Administration and was later president of the National Audubon Society, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82. Mr. Stahr's career spanned top jobs in the militar
 BRAZELTON-Thomas P. Born July 18, 1958, Tuscon, Az, raised Glenview, Il; died November 11, 1998, New York City. A painter, Tom's work was shown in numerous exhibitions and, most notably, at the Fawbush and Julian Pretto galleries in New York; it is also included in the Julian Pretto Collect
 ECHOLS-George R., 38, of Howell, NJ on November 11, 1998. Surviving are his wife, Angela Durante Echols; two sons, Steven and Christopher and a daughter, Jennifer; his parents, George R., Sr. and Margaret Mozine Echols; two sisters, three brothers-in-law and a sister-in-law, Patricia and Ch
 FISKE-Charles S., 86 years, on November 12, 1998. Devoted husband of Frances. Loving father of Roger. Beloved grandfather of Russell, Tracy and Kevin. Dear brother of Frieda. His love and good deeds will be with us forever.       
 FOGEL-Edward. The Fund for Peace mourns the passing of its fellow Board member, Edward Fogel, where he served for 18 years. He was a senior partner of Pryor Cashman, Sherman and Flynn and was active in many civic associations including The Chess-In-The-Schools. Our condolences to his wife, 
 GOLDBERG-Richard. The Board of Trustees, Administration and the entire New York Community Hospital mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Richard Goldberg, who served devotedly as a member of our Board of Trustees for eleven years and as Vice-Chairman for five years, until his deat
 MORI-Albert H. 69. Died Thursday at his home in Hanover, NH. Graduate of Dartmouth College, 1951. Former investment advisor for Rockefeller Family and Associates, retiring in 1984. Survived by wife of 45 years, Dorothy (Wyman) Mori, Hanover, NH; son Stephen L. Mori of Manhasset, NY; two dau
 WIESNER-Eric Paul. 74. Of 139 Treetops Drive, Lancaster, PA., formerly of New York City, NY died on November 11th at the Lancaster General Hospital after a brief illness. He was the husband of Elisabeth ''Lisa'' Stammler Wiesner and they celebrated their 47th wedding anniversary on October 
 Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two National Basketball Association championships, died last night at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78. Holzman, whose wife, Selma, died in July, died of complications from leukemia, according to the
 Roman Cycowski, the last surviving member of the Comedian Harmonists, a legendary German vocal sextet that was forced to break up by the Nazis because three of its members were Jewish, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 97. Mr. Cycowski had been cantor at t
 Tex Johnston, a storied test pilot who ushered in the age of jet travel with such a heart-stopping flourish that some people in Seattle and the world of aviation are still shaking their heads, died on Oct. 29 at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Wash. He was 84 and was recalled as the man who
 Ivan Shapiro, a real estate lawyer and former president of the Ethical Culture Society, who was also a leader in organizations concerned with civil liberties and the homeless, died Nov. 5. He was 69 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer'
 ADELSON-Richard. DDS. On November 8th, 1998. Of St Paul, MN, formerly of St. James, New York and Washington, D.C. Attended Columbia College -'56 and the University of Pennsylvania Dental School -'60. He practiced dentistry in Smithtown, New York, and later became Assistant Dean for Continui
 BERGER-Ralph R., D.D.S., 71. November 13, 1998. Dr. Berger graduated from NYU School of Dentistry in 1952. He was in the military from 1952-1954 and served in the Korean conflict. He practiced dentistry and orthodontics from 1954 to 1984 at his ''Family Dental Center'' on the lower east sid
 BRADNER-John H. Of Warwick, NY, on November 8, 1998. Survived by his children, Michael, Melissa, Andrew and Patrick; his sister, Frances Bradner Masefield; his former wife, Susan Hull Stage. Loomis School; Amherst 1950. Musician, author, world traveler. ''He followed his own star.''       
 BROCHSTEIN-Sam. With heads bowed, we mourn the loss of our good friend and former Executive Committee member, Sam Brochstein. Always an ardent supporter, Sam was instrumental in establishing programs of Jewish educational outreach. May his memory be for a blessing. We shall miss him. Irving
 DEGENSTEIN-Charles B., 92, business and civic leader, humanitarian and philanthropist, died at 7:45 am Wednesday, November 11, 1998, at his home in Selinsgrove, PA. He was born March 18, 1906, in Atlantic City, NJ, a son of the late David and Bertha (Beckman) Degenstein. Mr. Degenstein's fa
 FOGLE-Elston Edgar. Died on November 9, 1998, two days following his 91st birthday in Ocean Ridge, FL. Born in Barnesville, Ohio, he was the eldest son of Rev. Charles E. Fogle and Emma Edgar Fogle. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he graduated Magna Cum Laude from Marietta College in Marietta, 
 GARSON-Eugene. November 12, 1998, at age 72. Beloved husband to Gloria. Loving father of Roberta and Heidi. Dear father-in-law of Peter Hirsch. Adored grandfather of Emilie. His vast practical wisdom and deeply caring ways will be remembered by his family and the many others touched by his 
 GOLDBERG-Richard. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Richard Goldberg, beloved husband of our esteemed colleague, Joan Goldberg. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President Dr. Laura S. Schor, Nat'l Exec Dir       
 JACOBSON-Gad (Godl). Age 89 of Hallandale, FL on September 30. Beloved husband of Leah and father of Joel (Pauline Watona), Beryl (Roberta), Rose (Ronald Novak) and Fred (Beverly). Adoring grandfather of Daniel, Rebecca, Mara, Leila, Talia and Ezra and great-grandfather of Gareth, Zoe and T
 LEHMAN-Sidney. The Chairman, the Board of Trustees, and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of Sidney Lehman and extend their deepest sympathies to his beloved family: his son Museum Director Arnold L. Lehman and daughter-in-law Pamela Gimbel Lehman; 
 LEVITT-Marvin, of Brooklyn, in Miami Beach, on October 23rd. From the old neighborhood, wandering, wondering, smiling, taking ''Fortune's buffets and rewards with equal thanks,'' and moving on with music in his soul. HES/LMH       
 RIGGS-Thomas Jeffries, Jr. On November 5, 1998 at age 82. The husband of 50 years to Virginia Griggs Riggs. He was a decorated Veteran of W.W. II, serving as Commander of the 81st Combat Engineers Battalion of the 106th Infantry in the Battle of the Bulge. Colonel Riggs was central in the b
 ROHAN-John J. Age 83, of Siesta Key, FL, died November 12, 1998. John was born in NYC, September 12, 1915, and moved to Florida from Garden City, LI, 16 years ago. He retired as President of J. F. Jelenko and Co., a division of Pennwalt. He had served as an Army Captain in WW II and was a m
 SCHOOLSKY-Robert. November 5, 1998. Wine writer, lecturer and consultant. Former Vice Chairman of the ''Wine Media Guild'' and a member of Burgundy's Compagnon de Beaujolais. Survived by his sister Esther and brother-in-law Harvey Kircsh, nephews Steven and Jonathan, grandniece Ellie, and h
 SHAPIRO-Ivan. On November 5, 1998 at age 70 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maria. Proud father of Lisa J. Kubiske and Alex Shapiro. A prominent real estate attorney, civic leader and civil libertarian, Ivan inspired those who knew him. His commitment to ethical and moral issues an
 SOPHER-Morris. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Morris Sopher. He was a wonderful humanitarian who will be greatly missed. With his beloved wife Marilyn, they shared their concern for others facing a cancer diagnosis through 
 WHITE-James. Born in New York City, September 6, 1929. Moved to Plantation, FL, 1971. Parishioner of St. Gregory's Catholic Church. Died November 12, 1998. Survived by his wife Mary, his children Eileen, Patrick and Michael, and his sisters Margaret Sheehan and Ann Marie Reilly.       
 TRACT-Harold M. Of blessed memory. Passed away November 18, 1991. He was a truly noble man. The Tract Famil       
 Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two National Basketball Association championships, died on Friday night at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78. Holzman, whose wife, Selma, died in July, died of complications from leukemia, their daugh
 William Curry Moloney, who studied and treated blood diseases well before hematology became a medical specialty, died on Nov. 3 in Boston at Brigham and Women's Hospital, where he was a former director of hematology. He was 91 and lived in Chatham, Mass. Dr. Moloney was one of the f
 Laurence Owen Vine Gandar, the South African newspaper editor credited with bringing investigative journalism to a country that desperately needed it, died Saturday in Pietermaritzburg. He was 82, and had been suffering from Parkinson's Disease. As editor and editor-in-chief
 CASTIMORE-John Tillman. 75. Formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died of cancer November 10, 1998, at his Waldorf, MD, residence. He was a retired marketing/advertising representative. He was a member of the Congregational Church of Scarsdale, NY, and served with the Merchant Marines during WWII. He 
 FRIEDLANDER - George F. Passed away on November 14, 1998, after a bout with cancer. He leaves behind his wife Shirley, two loving daughters, Merri Gelbard and Dr. Susan E. Friedlander, and son-in-law Mitchell Gelbard, two grandchildren, Jonathan and Joanna Brynn Gelbard, and a brother Alber
 GOLDBERG-Richard. The Board of Directors and the entire congregational family of Beth El J.C. of Flatbush mourn the tragic loss of our beloved Board member and benefactor, Richard Goldberg. With deep sorrow, we express our condolences to his wife Joan, a longtime Trustee of our Board, and t
 HILFSTEIN-Max. We are deeply saddened by the death of dear friend, Founder and President of the New Cracow Friendship Society. Max also served as President of the Pelham Bay Jewish Center for 21 years. He was a man of great compassion and love for his fellow man. Our heartfelt sympathies to
 HODGES-E. Philip. Of Scarborough, NY, passed away November 9 in California. He retired from A T & T after 43 years as a building engineer. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth, a son Philip, a daughter Elizabeth, and two grandchildren. Services December 3, 11 AM, St. Theresa's RC Church, in
 KARLINSKY-Raymond E. Age 74, on November 14, 1998. Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of NYC. Beloved husband of Bette, loving father of Martin, Debi and Joanna. A lover of life, full of generosity, wit and vitality. We will miss his love and guidance greatly. Contributions in his memeory may be m
 KOROTKIN-Theodore I. On November 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Michael, Steven and Jeffrey, and father-in-law of Marcia, Beth and Cathy. Cherished grandfather of Darryl, Barron, Alan, Alyssa, Wendy, Neil, Julie, Eric and Samantha, and great-grandfather of Rachel, Jas
 ODABASH-Arthur. Passed away on November 13, 1998. The Board of Trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our dear Association Member and friend Arthur Odabash. Heartfelt condolences are offered to his beloved wife Lois, and children Robin, Jamie, Melissa,
 REISMAN-Irving. Beloved husband of Sheila. Devoted father of Paula and Marcia. Cherished grandfather of Margie and Adam. Loving brother of Harold. He was a founder and original manager of the Aqueduct Flea Market for 25 years. Services Monday, 10:15 AM, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'
 WEINBERG-Irving N. Washington Heights Congregation is deeply saddened at the loss of their esteemed Rabbi Emeritus, Rabbi Irving N. Weinberg. He was the former principal of the Yeshiva Rabbi Moses Soloveichik and in the past years the active Rabbi of the Congreation Hechal Moshe, Natanya, I
 GARLICK-Joe. 1923-1978. As long as we live, he too will live, for he is a part of us. Anita, Children and Grandchildren       
 Kwame Ture, the flamboyant civil rights leader known to most Americans as Stokely Carmichael, died yesterday in Conakry, Guinea. He was 57 and is best remembered for his use of the phrase ''black power,'' which in the mid-1960's ignited a white backlash and alarmed an older generation of ci
 Minot K. Milliken, who was treasurer and chief financial officer of Milliken & Company, the country's largest privately owned textile company, died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York on Saturday after a three-month illness, his eldest son, M. K. Milliken, said. He was 82 and live
 BARON-Raymond S. Devoted husband of the late Harriet Baron, loving partner of Midge Grant, adored father of Ronnie and Fred Hirsh and Maggie and Richard Baron, cherished grandfather of Jodi, Lara and Alan Hirsh, and dear brother to Francine Leibler, Austin Baron and Jules Baron. We will lov
 BRENNAN-Francis M. Reverend Msgr., founding Pastor of the Church of the Holy Child in Staten Island, died November 15 at the age of 85. He was born on March 19, 1913 in Darlington, NJ to Luke and Catherine Brennan, fifth of seven children. He attended Sacred Heart School in Suffern, NY, Cat
 FRIEDLAND - Mitchell. Marc Hochlerin and the staff of ACE audiovisual Inc. mourns Mitchell's passing and extends our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Maura Friedland and the entire family. Mitchell was a beloved friend of our firm who taught us the meaning of true inner strength and love. He
 GERMAN-Saul. Died November 15, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Fran, loving father of David and Michael, cherished by his grandchildren Amanda, Emily, Harry and Ian, and daughters-inlaw Linda and Susan. Services November 17th, 11 AM, Gutterman's Funeral Home in Boca Raton, FL.       
 HOSIOSKY-Dr. Issai. On Sunday, Nov. 15th, 1998. Resident of Manhattan and Somers, NY. Beloved husband of Dr. Ellen N. Hosiosky, practicing Periodontist in Manhattan. Dr. Issai Hosiosky was born in Libau, Russia on Feb. 17th, 1906. He received his Gymnasium degree in Libau in 1923 and his Do
 KARLINSKY-Raymond E. Age 74, on November 14, 1998. Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of NYC. Beloved husband of Bette, loving father of Martin, Debi and Joanna. A lover of life, full of generosity, wit and vitality. We will miss his love and guidance greatly. Contributions in his memeory may be m
 LOBEL-Sheldon. On November 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Debra Lobel, Lisa Samuels and Mark Lobel. Loving father-in-law of Dr. Mitchell Samuels and Dr. Melissa Cohen. Adored and adoring grandfather of Cara, Dana and Michael Samuels. Dear brother of Millicent Haber 
 MILLIKEN-Minot K. The Board of Trustees and the Women's Board of The Boys' Club of New York regret the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Minot Milliken. As an active Trustee for the past 50 years, Minot worked tirelessly to help improve the lives of inner city boys giving them an a
 WALDRON-Robert E. Age 67. On November 15, 1998. CEO of Waldron Associates Ltd. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Father of Eric, Clifford, Robert E. Jr. and Susanne. Grandfathr of six. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Thursday 2-5 and 7-9PM with service Friday,
 WILKINSON-Frederick D. Jr., the Founding Co-Chair of our Board of Overseers, died peacefully on Sunday. We will miss his friendship and his leadership and will not forget him. Our heartfelt sympathies to Fred's beloved wife, Jeane, and to their children, Sharon, Ambassador to Burkina Feso; 
 FEUCHTWANGER-Pierre, of Paris, France, left us on November 18, 1994. His presence, wits and love of life remain irreplaceable to his nephews, niece, grand nephew and grand niece. Let all his friends remember him affectionately.       
 STAR-Leon D., M.D. In everlasting memory of a loving husband, father and grandfather on his birthday.       
 BARON-Raymond S. We extend our sympathy for a wonderful person, Raymond Baron, to his family and friends. Trustees of the Hewlett-Woodmere Public Library       
 KUTSHER-Milton. Owner and President of Kutsher's Country Club, a leading hotel in the Catskills, died on Monday, November 16th of a heart attack. Kutsher, and his wife, Helen, joined forces to build the business from a rooming house founded in 1907 by Louis and Max Kutsher, to its present s
 LOBEL-Sheldon. On November 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Debra Lobel, Lisa Samuels and Mark Lobel. Loving father-in-law of Dr. Mitchell Samuels and Dr. Melissa Cohen. Adored and adoring grandfather of Cara, Dana and Michael Samuels. Dear brother of Millicent Haber 
 MILLIKEN-Minot K. For more than three decades, a good neighbor, for more than twenty years, a devoted member of the Board, and for more than ten years, distinguished President of the Corporation. We shall miss his company, his leadership, his energy and his smile. We extend deepest condolen
 QUINN-Joseph F. November 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Andrew and Stephanie. Son of Estelle Quinn. Brother of Donald Quinn. Retired in 1997 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of US Reinsurance. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81
 TAKAS-William J. Loved friend and swinging bass player died on November 8 at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 66. Bill will be missed very much by his brothers, his friends, and by a number of excellent piano players.       
 WALDRON-Robert E. Age 67. On Nov. 15th, 1998. CEO of Waldron Associates Ltd. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Father of Eric, Clifford, Robert E. Jr. and Susanne. Grandfather of six. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, on Thursday from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with s
 WILKINSON-Frederick D. Jr., the Founding Co-Chair of our Board of Overseers, died peacefully on Sunday. We will miss his friendship and his leadership and will not forget him. Our heartfelt sympathies to Fred's beloved wife, Jeane, and to their children, Sharon, Ambassador to Burkina Feso; 
 TRACT-Harold M. Of blessed memory. Passed away November 18, 1991. He was a truly noble man. The Tract Family       
 Peter Cotes, a British theatrical producer and director who staged the first production of Agatha Christie's ''Mousetrap'' in 1952, died on Tuesday at his home in Chipping Norton in the Cotswolds. He was 86. ''The Mousetrap,'' now in its 46th consecutive year in London, is the longe
 Weeb Ewbank, who coached the Baltimore Colts of 1958 and the New York Jets of 1968 to pro football championships in monumental title games, died yesterday at his home in Oxford, Ohio. He was 91. Ewbank, who attended the Jets-Colts game in Indianapolis last Sunday, was the only coach
 Chris Dundee, who promoted hundreds of fights and turned Miami Beach into a boxing center in a career that spanned six decades, died at the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged on Monday. He was 91. Dundee promoted eight world championship fights, including the Miami Beach bout in which M
 Eddie Elias, a lawyer who founded the Professional Bowlers Association in 1958 and later represented sports and entertainment celebrities, died on Sunday at Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital. He was 69. The P.B.A. said the cause was complications of pneumonia. Mr. Elias suffered a st
 Jacques Medecin, Mayor of Nice from 1966 until 1990, when he fled to Uruguay to avoid prosecution on corruption charges that later landed him in jail for nearly two years, died in Uruguay on Tuesday after several heart attacks, his family said. He was 70. Nice, where Mr. Medecin mad
 BARON-Raymond S. The Officers and Directors of the Helen Matchette DeMario Foundation mourn the loss of our co-director, friend and colleague Raymond S. Baron. His dedication and decency will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his dear friend and companion,
 BERTIN-Stephen. On November 17, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Rysia. Cherished father of Martine. Beloved grandfather of Alexandra. An engineer, classical scholar and historian. A survivor and fighter until the end. A tribute to his life will be held at a later date. He will always be l
 CORSARO-John. The Segal Company mourns the passing of John Corsaro, one of its Senior Vice Presidents and a beloved colleague and friend for over 30 years. He was a loyal and skilled consultant and was dedicated to the clients he served. We extend deepest sympathy to his family. Martin E. S
 DARDIG-BEN. The Jewish Braille Institute of America is deeply saddened by the passing of a dear friend and highly respected professional colleague. As a consultant he contributed greatly to the enhancement of our services to the blind, visually impaired and reading disabled worldwide. To hi
 EWBANK-Weeb. The New York Jets have lost a great coach, a great mentor and a great friend. Weeb symbolized the best tradition and commitment and sportsmanship sought and admired in professional sports. His inspirational motivation and extraordinary management skills produced the unique reco
 FEIT-Dudley. The Israel and Fennie Feit Foundation mourn the irreplaceable loss of our President, devoted husband of Hattie, beloved brother of Herbert. Loving father of Elliot and Nikki, Joseph and Surella, adored grandfather of Laurie and Zvi Adler, Alison and Jordan Mann, Neal, Jeremy, R
 KUTSHER-Milton. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Milton Kutsher, a long-time supporter of ADL. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Helen, children, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director KUTSHER-Mi
 LaGRANGE-Isaac. On November 18, 1998 in his 96th year. Beloved husband of the Late Frances W. LaGrange. Loving father of Suzanne Ragland, John and Robert. Devoted Grandfather of seven and Great Grandfather of seven. Mr. LaGrange was the son of Isaac & Annie Fix LaGrange of Albany, N.Y. A gr
 LOBEL-Sheldon. President and Co-Founder of Lobel Chemical Corporation. Pioneer in the international sales & marketing of American chemicals and related equipment. Master communicator. Shelly worked tirelessly for 44 years despite continual sickness since the early 1970's. His work ethic and
 PIERPOINT-Powell. Died on November 17, age 76, in NYC. He is survived by his daughter, Harriett P. Bos, her husband, Gerard A. Bos, and three grandchildren, Pier, Abbie and Evan Bos, all of Charlotte NC. A memorial servce will be held at St.James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue on Mond
 SOPHER-Morris. The Yeshiva of Telshe Alumni and the Time For Torah Fellowship mark with sorrow the loss of our dear friend, Mr. Morris Sopher of blessed memory. Husband of Mrs. Marilyn Sopher, father of dear children Jonathan, Barbara and Lisa. His elegance and class, as well as his infecti
 WALDRON-Robert E. Age 67. On Nov. 15th, 1998. CEO of Waldron Associates Ltd. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Father of Eric, Clifford, Robert E. Jr. and Susanne. Grandfather of six. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, on Thursday from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with s
 MILLIKEN-Minot K. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, December 2nd, 11am at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue & West 53 St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to The Boys' Club of New York, 287 East 10 St., NY NY 10009       
 Patrick Clancy, who helped start a folk revival as a founding member of the Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem, died on Nov. 11 at his home in Carrick-on-Suir, County Tipperary, Ireland. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said Bill Haller, his son-in-law. As the eldest of the Cla
 Perry H. Young Jr., an aviator whose career spanned more than 50 years and who was the first African-American pilot for a commercial airline in the United States, died on Nov. 8 at the Horton Medical Center in Middletown, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Young, who lived in Pine Bush, N.Y., had 
 Robert Lyman Popper, a retired business executive who was long active in civic affairs and philanthropy, died Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 90 and lived in Armonk, N.Y., and Manhattan. Mr. Popper was chairman of the New York State Office for the Aging in the Rockefeller, 
 Alan J. Pakula, a director of many psychologically penetrating and celebrated films including ''Sophie's Choice,'' ''All the President's Men'' and ''Klute,'' died yesterday in a freak accident on the Long Island Expressway. He was 70 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.        
 BARON-Raymond S. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Raymond S. Baron, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. As past president and a member of the Board of Directors of the Herman Goldman Foundation, a staunch supporter of UJA-Fed
 BERMINGHAM - Thomas V., Priest of the Society of Jesus; teacher and scholar of the classics; dearest brother of Jack, Peggy and Bob Bermingham, Mary Byrne, Betty Stevens, Edith Cavanagh, Helen Keller and the late Suzanne Harrington; and a source of joy, love and inspiration to so, so many o
 BRANDWEIN-Arthur. We mourn the passing of the brother of our member, Helen Weinberg, and uncle of our member Irwin Adelsberg and pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck BRANDWEIN-Dr. N. Arthur. On November 18th. Beloved 
 CAHILL-Anthony B., Sr., age 68, of Bonita Springs, Florida and Nantucket, Massachusetts, died on November 18, 1998 after an extended illness. Born in New York City on November 19, 1929, son of the late Russell B. Cahill and Estelle Forhan Cahill. He was the husband of Karen Butler Cahill. H
 CHEN-Yu Ching. Died November 17, 1998. Beloved husband of Hsi Sheng Yue; loving father of Patricia and Harry; devoted grandfather of eight. Respected scholar, journalist and political leader. Editor-in-chief of the Chinese Journal in New York City for many years. He served the government of
 EISMAN-Martin L., on November 18, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Jan (nee Klein). Loving father of Valerie. Dear brother of Arthur and Susan. Cherished brother-inlaw of Joan and Bob Nadel. Devoted grandfather of Jenna and Emily. Memorial service will be held Friday, 11AM at Temple Israel
 EWBANK-Weeb. The New York Jets have lost a great coach, a great mentor and a great friend. Weeb symbolized the best tradition and commitment and sportsmanship sought and admired in professional sports. His inspirational motivation and extraordinary management skills produced the unique reco
 KERNO-Eugene J. A New York City Attorney. On November 18, 1998 at age 86. Beloved father of Raymond E. Kerno and loving grandfather of Annija. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Sunday, November 22nd, 6PM. Interment Monday, Evergreen Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, con
 KUTSHER-Milton. The National Adoption Center extends condolences to the Kutsher family. Milton Kutsher's loving memory will continue to warm and strengthen his family and friends.       
 LOBEL-Sheldon. President and Co-Founder of Lobel Chemical Corporation. Pioneer in the international sales & marketing of American chemicals and related equipment. Master communicator. Shelly worked tirelessly for 44 years despite continual sickness since the early 1970's. His work ethic and
 PIERPOINT-Powell. Died on November 17, age 76, in NYC. He is survived by his daughter, Harriett P. Bos, her husband, Gerard A. Bos, and three grandchildren, Pier, Abbie and Evan Bos, all of Charlotte NC. A memorial servce will be held at St.James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue on Mond
 POPPER-Robert Lyman. Age 90 of Armonk, NY and Manhattan, died peacefully at White Plains Hospital on November 17, 1998. He was a graduate of Philips Academy Andover, class of '26 and Yale University, class of '30. He was the grandson of Lyman Gustav Bloomingdale, founder of the department s
 POTTER-Helena. The Board of Directors of The Grenfell Association of America expresses its deep sorrow and sympathy to Dr. Robert Potter, the Association's President, and his family at the untimely passing of his wife, Helena, whose wisdom and unique contributions to the organization are gr
 PRAGER-Sigmund Godfrey. November 12, 1998. Beloved husband of 60 years to the late Eleanor (nee Bernson). Devoted father of Nancy Kamel and the late Judith. Much loved grandfather to Lara Benett Adler, Andrew Benett and Ariane Benett and joyous greatgrandfather to Caroline Grace Adler. He w
 QUINTANO-Eugene S., 90, of Tuxedo, New York on November 16, 1998 at his residence. Beloved father of Eugene F., Ann T., and Francesca X. Quintano-Mattson. Also survived by 4 grandchildren. Mass of Christian burial on Friday (today) at 9:30 a.m. from St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 980 Park Aven
 WALDRON-Robert. We wish to express our sincere sympathy to Dorothy Waldron and family. A man who was bigger than life, he will be greatly missed. Jeffrey Degen Gary Majka       
 WILKINSON-Frederick D., Jr. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the Weill Medical College of Cornell University and the New York Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Overseer Fred Wilkinson. A founding member of the Board of Overseers, Mr. Wi
 ANREDER-Julius S. Beloved husband of the late Paula Anreder. Devoted brother of Henrietta, Harriet, Florence and Marvin, Jean and Steven. Adored uncle of Lynn, Gail, Lewis, Michael, Scott, Eric, Emily, Sandy, Michelle, David, Laura, Susan, Lawrence, Rebecca and eighteen great nieces and nep
 BAIN-George H. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving and endeared father of Constance and Fabienne. Proud father-in-law of Michael H. Moskow. Cherished, devoted grandfather of Robert (Holly), Eliot (Veronica), and Lisa. Caring uncle, loyal friend, a true gentleman for all seasons. His goodness 
 BERMINGHAM - Thomas V., Priest of the Society of Jesus; teacher and scholar of the classics; dearest brother of Jack, Peggy and Bob Bermingham, Mary Byrne, Betty Stevens, Edith Cavanagh, Helen Keller and the late Suzanne Harrington; and a source of joy, love and inspiration to so, so many o
 BICKFORD-Albert Conde, 96, on November 18, 1998 at home in Ardsley-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of the late Esther H. Bickford. Survivors are his son, Robert C. Bickford and daughter-in-law, Margaretta Murphy Bickford of Cold Spring, NY, his son, Nathaniel J. Bickford and daughter-in-law, Jewelle
 DULTZ-Melvin William, 71, Owner of Travcoa World Tours and a Chicago native died Tuesday, November, 10 in Seoul, South Korea. Mr. Dultz is survived by his daughter, Olga; sisters, Selma (Arnold) Ekerling and Betty Phillips; and nieces and nephews. A memorial service is planned for 11 a.m. S
 FREY-Marcy, DDS, Col. USA-ret, of W. Hartford, CT, b. Dec. 18, 1904 in Brooklyn, NY, died Nov. 19, 1998. He leaves behind a loving family-his wife Deborah (Levy); his children, Joshua, Barbara, Amy and Sara Frey; their spouses and six beloved grandchildren. Funeral services Sunday, Nov. 22 
 GITHENS-William French. A pioneer in producing and popularizing newsreels, died of complications following a stroke. He is survived by his stepson John Lawrence Githens, his stepdaughter Marianne Githens and his grandson Jonathan Githens-Mazer. Memorial service will be held at Vinson Hall, 
 KERNO-Eugene J. A New York City Attorney. On November 18, 1998 at age 86. Beloved father of Raymond E. Kerno and loving grandfather of Annija. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Sunday, November 22nd, 6PM. Interment Monday, Evergreen Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, con
 PIERPOINT-Powell. Died on November 17, age 76, in NYC. He is survived by his daughter, Harriett P. Bos, her husband, Gerard A. Bos, and three grandchildren, Pier, Abbie and Evan Bos, all of Charlotte NC. A memorial servce will be held at St.James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue on Mond
 POPPER-Robert L. New York Citizens' Committee on Aging mourns its beloved former Chairman and longest-serving Associate. We will not see his like again. Doris L. Rosenberg, Pres. Jerry A. Shroder, Exec. Dir.       
 SALTZMAN-Julius. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL and N.Y.C. Much loved brother, brother-in-law, uncle, and great-uncle, passed away peacefully on November 28 at age 81 to join his beloved companion, the late Moe Fine, his cherished sister, the late Helen Pepose, and his dear brother, the late Murray
 WEINSTEIN-Abraham (Al). On November 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Frances. Loving father of Robert. Dear brother-in-law of Goldie Weinstein. Devoted uncle of Elinore and Allen. Tireless community activist, dedicated member of the United Nations staff for 40 years. We love him and he will be 
 Robert H. Whitstock, a retired vice president of the Seeing Eye organization in Morristown, N.J., which trains guide dogs and those who use them, died on Oct. 16 at the home of a daughter, Holly Seeger, in Palisades, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Cortland, N.Y. He had a brain tumor, s
 Dr. Tetsuya Fujita, a meteorologist who devised the standard scale for rating the severity of tornadoes and discovered the role of sudden violent down-bursts of air that sometimes cause airplanes to crash, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago.  He was 78. Known as Ted, the Tornad
 William J. McCarthy, a New England labor leader who served a term as national president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters when the union was fighting Federal racketeering charges, died on Thursday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 79 and lived in Arlington. Mr.
 Yefim Geller, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster whose penetrating technical analysis, inspired innovations and brilliant play helped the former Soviet Union almost totally dominate international chess for decades, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Moscow. He was 73. The caus
 Gerard Grisey, one of the most important French composers of the generation after Pierre Boulez, died Wednesday in a Paris hospital. He was 52. The cause was a stroke, the French Consulate said. Mr. Grisey was born in Belfort, France, and studied from 1963 to 1965 at the mus
 Milton Kutsher, who built Kutsher's Country Club into one of the leading resorts in the Catskills and kept it successful even as many other top hotels in the region lost their allure in the 1980's and 90's, died Monday in Monticello, N.Y. He was 82 years old. Mr. Kutsher's life span
 ANREDER-Julius. Oscar Gruss & Son, Incorporated honors the life of Julius Anreder, our partner for over thirty years. Julius helped build our firm and stood with us in good times and bad. An uncle to Laura Anreder and a friend, teacher and confidante to many of us here... Julius' life was d
 BAIN-George H. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving and endeared father of Constance and Fabienne. Proud father-in-law of Michael H. Moskow. Cherished, devoted grandfather of Robert (Holly), Eliot (Veronica), and Lisa. Caring uncle, loyal friend, a true gentleman for all seasons. His goodness 
 BICKFORD-Albert Conde, 96, on November 18, 1998 at home in Ardsley-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of the late Esther H. Bickford. Survivors are his son, Robert C. Bickford and daughter-in-law, Margaretta Murphy Bickford of Cold Spring, NY, his son, Nathaniel J. Bickford and daughter-in-law, Jewelle
 BRENT-Stanford F. Devoted man and loving father. Died unexpectedly on November 14, 1998. He is survived by a daughter Mrs. Helene Splan and a son Stanford F. Brent, Jr. He was the former husband of Helene Klotz Brent and Margaret Reventlow. He will be deeply missed by everyone.       
 BUTLER-Christopher Blair. Age 47, on November 21, 1998. Executive with Mobil Oil Corporation. Beloved son of W. Jack and Patricia Butler, father of Ross, and brother of Peter Butler. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of one's choice.     
 CLIFFORD-Frank E. Died peacefully November 19, 1998 in Atlanta, GA. Born in Fairport, NY June 8, 1908. Resident for many years of Mountain Lakes, N.J. and Atlanta, GA. Survived by his wife Jane W. Clifford of Sebring, FL, his children Polly C. Skinner, Dean W. Clifford, Sarah C. Cook and Ju
 DWIGHT-Richard W., M.D. Age 95, of Westwood, MA, formerly of Chestnut Hill, MA, died Friday, November 20, 1998. Son of the late Dr. James Dwight and the late Marie (Iasigi) Dwight. He is survived by his nephew Philip T. Dwight of Hancock, NH, and his niece Veronica Richard of Ft. Myers, FL.
 FOWKES-Robert A. of Bronxville, NY on November 18, 1998. Husband of Angela Vescio Fowkes, father of Robert Jr., Richard and William, grandfather of six, greatgrandfather of three. Services at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, on Monday, November 23, at 12 noon. In lieu of 
 FRANKEL-Arnold J. Age 76. Died peacefully in his home on November 20, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Miriam D. Frankel for 54 years, devoted father of Hinda Squires, Janet Staub, and Alan, adoring grandfather of eight grandchildren; loving brother of Edith Frankel and Doris 
 GEGERSON-Harry Joseph, M.D. Of Atlantic Beach and Boca Raton, Florida. On November 18, 1998 in his 89th year. Loving father of Robert, Peter, Roy, Andrew and Gary. Fond grandfather of 12 grandchildren, Shari, Steven, Jaime, Angie, Joel, Kenneth, Michael, Jonathan, Scott, Lisa, Todd and Kara
 KERNO-Eugene J. A New York City Attorney. On November 18, 1998 at age 86. Beloved father of Raymond E. Kerno and loving grandfather of Annija. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Sunday, November 22nd, 6PM. Interment Monday, Evergreen Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, con
 LEEPSON-Emil. Beloved husband of Lenore and the late Betty. Father to Peter Leepson. Stepfather to Lorna Braunschweiger and Susan Kooper. Grandfather to Jonathan, David, Brian and Jennifer Leepson, Michael and Holly Sosnowitz, Jay and Keith Kooper, and Julie, Matthew and Dana Braunschweiger
 LEVINSON-Henry. 1907-1998. In Dania, FL. A remarkable man, a loving husband, a devoted father. Lucy Warshaw (Robert), June Nemchin (Robert), Rose Carelli (John). A proud grandfather, an adoring great-grandfather, a very distinguished graduate of Cooper Union. Hank loved NYC and spent most o
 PAKULA-Alan J. Community Access's Board of Directors, Staff and Consumers express profound sorrow at the loss of an extraordinary man. Recently he and his family opened their hearts to share with us their goodness, warmth, generosity and remarkable support of people with mental illness. His
 PIERPOINT-Powell. Died on November 17, age 76, in NYC. He is survived by his daughter, Harriett P. Bos, her husband, Gerard A. Bos, and three grandchildren, Pier, Abbie and Evan Bos, all of Charlotte NC. A memorial servce will be held at St.James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue on Mond
 ROSEN - Joel. Internationally known concert pianist and teacher, died on November 17, 1998. He leaves behind a loving family; his wife Joy, children Jeffrey and Linda, their spouses Daphne Hsu and Rob Macomber, and three grandsons Bobby, Michael and Jamie. Contributions in lieu of flowers m
 SOPHER-Morris B. A New York real estate developer and philanthropist died on Nov. 11. The cause was cancer. Born on April 6, 1928 to Russian immigrants, Mr. Sopher joined the Ringling-Bros.-Barnum and Bailey Circus during 1944 where he performed as a perch and trapeze acrobat. A skilled bod
 TENENBERG-Harry. On November 16 in NYC. Teacher, union organizer, civil rights activist, founding member of Encounter. Funny, good, generous friend. He is survived by his loving family: daughter, Nancy Ferleger, sister, Pearl Boxer, brothers, David and Daniel Tenenberg, son-in-law, Len Ferl
 WEINSTEIN-Abraham (Al): Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the loss of our longtime member. Our sympathies to his devoted wife Frances and adored son, Robert. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 WILL-Jason. A purple heart veteran of WWII. Died September 20. Today it will have been his 74th Birthday & he would be preparing his annual trip to his home in the Caribbean. No one could have had a more honest, loyal & dedicated friend. We will miss him daily. Budd Calisch & Robert McKenzi
 YUDESS-MARGARET. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to our dear friends Larry & Linda & their family on the loss of their beloved mother and to Sidney on the loss of his partner in life Margaret. You are in our hearts & thoughts. Your friends: Mike & Carol, Stuart & Carole, Orin & Barbara, 
 MILLIKEN-Minot K. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, December 2nd, 11am at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue & West 53 St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to The Boys' Club of New York, 287 East 10 St., NY NY 10009       
 TUTTLETON-Prof. James W. The Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Faculty of the English Department of New York University mourn the death of our colleague and friend James W. Tuttleton. As Chairman of our Department and Associate Dean of the Graduate School he strengthened our a
 Ralph L. Wickiser, a painter and teacher who founded the fine arts graduate program at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, died on Oct. 27 in a nursing home in Riverhead, N.Y. He was 88. A modernist abstract painter, Mr. Wickiser drew much of his imagery from nature, particularly, in t
 William French Githens, a newsreel pioneer and tennis-playing society figure, died on Nov. 10 at a hospice near his retirement home in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and is credited with opening the world's first all-newsreel movie theater in 1929. In a democratic nation famous for the fl
 You take a fellow who looks like a goat, travels around with goats, eats with goats, lies down among goats and smells like a goat and it won't be long before people will be calling him the Goat Man. Which is pretty much what Charles McCartney had in mind back in the Depression when 
 Dick Sisler, a member of a prominent baseball family who gained his own niche in the sport's history with a pennant-winning home run for the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team, died on Friday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 78. Sisler had been suffering from pneumonia, 
 Frederick D. Wilkinson Jr., one of the first black executives at Macy's, the City of New York and, later, at the American Express Company, died at Mount Vernon Hospital on Nov. 15. He was 77. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to his family. Born in 1921 in Washin
 Jose Figueroa, a leading Puerto Rican violinist and teacher, died on  Nov. 9 at his home in San Juan, P.R. He was 94. Mr. Figueroa was born into a musical family; his father, Jesus Figueroa Iriate, was a composer, and his mother, Carmen Sanabia Ellinger, a pianist. At age 7, he bega
 Lonnie Pitchford, a Mississippi bluesman who was dedicated to reviving early Delta blues, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Lexington, Miss. He was 43. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his manager, Patty Johnson. Mr. Pitchford performed around the world and appea
 Michael Todd, publisher of Grapezine, a magazine about winegrowing, died on Saturday at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. He was 51 and had homes in midtown Manhattan and Sag Harbor on Long Island. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said his wife, Claudia Payne. 
 BUTLER-Christopher Blair. Age 47, on November 21, 1998. Executive with Mobil Oil Corporation. Beloved son of W. Jack and Patricia Butler, father of Ross, and brother of Peter Butler. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of one's choice.     
 COONEY-David O. In Laramie, WY, on November 20, at age 58. Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Wyoming. Devoted husband of Peggy, and father of Eric and Jonathan. Survived also by his father, Edward Cooney of Winchester, MA, his sister, Kathleen Corrigan of Southport, CT,
 FOWKES-Robert Allen, Ph.D. The St. David's Society of the State of New York records with profound sorrow the death of its much beloved past president (1955-1958), Professor Robert A. Fowkes. Born in Harrison, NY, on April 7, 1913, he married Angela Vescio in Yonkers, NY on June 17, 1939. He
 FRANKEL-Arnold. The Board and Staff of the Queens Child Guidance Center are deeply saddened by the death of their past President, whose wisdom and generosity were decisive in enabling the agency to better serve the children of Queens. The Arnold Frankel Clinic of the Center will perpetuate 
 GLICKMAN-Harry. Of Bayside, Queens. Beloved husband of Florence. Devoted father of Robert and Jeffrey. Loving fatherin-law of Debi and Debbie. Loving grandfather of Julie, Steven, Jacob, Rachel, and Sam. President Emeritus of Starcraft Press. Devoted his great skill as an educator in graphi
 KING-Paul A. Age 85. November 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father of Carrie King and Kathy Simmons (Brent). Stepfather of Jonathan and David (Patty) Schimmel. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Rachel Simmons; Jesse, Nathan and Noah Schimmel. He was a man of great imaginatio
 KREIDIE-Munir R. Retired Assistant Commissioner General of the U.N. Relief Works Agency. Died November 19, 1998, at age 84, in King of Prussia, PA. Survived by wife Lisa, sons Munir, Marwan and Hamid, daughter Linda Freiser, and two grandchildren. Graduate of Cairo and Columbia Universities
 MacKENZIE - Douglas C. Of Brooklyn and Eastport, on November 20, 1998. Survived by his wife Yvonne, daughters Maureen C. MacKenzie and Deirdre MacKenzie, sister Margot Cunningham and granddaughters Adriana and Daniela. He was a retired teacher from the Bayshore High School and the Regis Hig
 SAPER-Murray Gelles. Formerly of NYC, on November 21, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Charlotte Saper. Loving father of Jeffrey and Jordan Saper, cherished grandfather of Kimberly, Daniel, Amy, Julia, Jennifer, Douglas and Robert Saper. Former President of the First District Dental Societ
 SAVIN-Marvin ''Pete.'' Age 69, husband of Elaine (Sneirson) Savin of 1011 Mountain Road, Bloomfield, CT. Died November 22, 1998. For more than 40 years Mr. Savin was prominent in Hartford business, civic, sports and political affairs. In addition, he had owned race horses and was an avid go
 TIM-Stephen K-M. On November 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Shopis). Brother of Phonyin Tim of Victoria, BC, and Peter Tim of Johannesburg, South Africa. Also survived by three nephews. Reposing Tuesday 2-5 and 79 PM, at Henry McCaddin & Son Funeral Home, 24 7th Ave, Brooklyn. Mass
 EDLIN-Patricia Carroll. November 23, 1997. You are gone but not forgotten. Always in our hearts and prayers. God will keep you in his loving care forever. Loving Brothers, Pat, Eddie and Donald, and Family and Dear Friend, Ursula       
 Henry Hampton, an Emmy-winning documentary filmmaker whose series ''Eyes on the Prize'' was hailed by many critics as the definitive look at the nation's early struggle over civil rights, died on Sunday in Boston. He was 58. Mr. Hampton had the bone marrow disease myelodysplasia, wh
 Meredith (Flash) Gourdine, the 1952 Olympic silver medalist in the long jump and later an engineer and physicist with 70 patents that deal with thermal management and the conversion of gas to electricity, died Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Houston. He was 69. The cause of death
 BARTUREN-Manolo, 72, entrepreneur, of a heart attack on November 22. Remembered for his loyalty and generous Christian spirit. Visiting, Tuesday 4-6 and 79PM at the John J. Fox Funeral Home, Inc., 2080 Boston Post Rd, Larchmont, New York. Mass, Wednesday 11AM at Holy Family Church, New Roch
 BERNARD-Bobby. Of New York City and Margate, NJ. Died after a lengthy illness on November 22, in New York City. He was born in New York City and a graduate of Boston University and Emerson College. He was a theatrical manager for most of his life and retired eight years ago. He lived in Low
 CAREY-William P. Jr., MD. The residents, staff and faculty of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at New York University Medical Center mourn the sudden, tragic death of our alumnus. Bill graduated from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and was an outstanding me
 COHEN-Jack. Young Israel of Manhattan records with profound sorrow the passing of its member and former president in Israel. Condolences to his widow, Ida, and the bereaved family.       
 EARLE-Victor Montagne. Age 92, on November 21. Father of Victor III and the late MaryAnn Scatch; and grandfather of Jane, Susan and Anne Earle and John Scatch. He was active in New York City in the work of Alcoholics Anonymous and was a member of that organization for over 50 years.       
 FRANDSEN-Elvind. Died on November 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Birgitta (Bitten). Mr. Frandsen worked as a Treasurer and Personnel Director for the New York office of Maersk, Inc. Shipping Company of Denmark. Then, when retired, he managed their Bermuda office for several years. Services wi
 FRANKEL-Arnold. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund express their deepest sympathy to the family of Arnold Frankel. A graduate of the class of 1942, Mr. Frankel was a loyal and generous alumnus of City College. All of us will miss him. Stanley H. Kaplan, '39B, Chairman Herbert R
 GARFINKEL-George J. Of Fairfield, N.J. and Boca Raton, FL. On Friday, November 20, 1998 from Gutterman's Funeral Chapel, Hackensack, N.J. Loving father of Lynn Gaines and Peter Garfinkel. Also survived by his sister Florence Shustak, brother Stanley Garfinkel and four grandchildren. He was 
 HAMPTON-Henry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our Board member, colleague, and friend, Henry Hampton. Henry brought to the craft of film making the conviction of the educator, the eye of the artist, the subtle intelligence of the historia
 HAUBEN-Oscar. Age 93. On November 18, 1998. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. A Holocaust survivor who managed successfully to bring his family to the U.S. and build a shoe business and a comfortable and loving home. He was adored by his family and he will be greatly missed. He is su
 HOULIHAN-Daniel J. Manhattan College acknowledges with profound sorrow the passing of Daniel J. Houlihan, Sr. '41, renowned alumnus, generous benefactor, valued advisor and good friend. Educated by the Christian Brothers at Manhattan, Dan devoted his extra time and energies to Catholic educ
 KATZ-Irving. Born May 22, 1913, died November 22 at age 85. Retired from the U.N. since 1974. He is well remembered for excellence in linguistics and his vast knowledge of history. He is missed by his wife of 51 years, Elaine, son Robert, daughter-in-law Florence, and two granddaughters, La
 KURTZ-Irving, 87. Prominent Civil Engineer & businessman in the structural steel business on Long Island for 40 years. Died in Palm Beach, Florida on November 5, 1998. He is survived by his wife Tilly, children Harold, Robert and Phyllis, grandchildren Pamela, Mark, Rachel, Daniel and Abiga
 LEEPSON-Emil. The partners, Associates and Staff of Warshaw Burstein Cohen Schlesinger & Kuh, LLP, mourn the loss of our beloved colleague Emil Leepson. He was a renowned attorney, esteemed mentor and valued friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Lenore and son Peter, and his 
 MUNSON-Larom B. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague, an ADAA member since 1976. He was committed to the artists he represented and an active participant in many activities devoted to the improvement of the Sante Fe communi
 PAKULA-Alan J. The 188,000 members of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill and its Campaign to End Discrimination extend their condolences to the family of Alan J. Pakula and especially to his wife, Hannah. With his stepson, Robert Boorstin, Mr. Pakula brought the story of his family'
 PEARLSTEIN-Jules. Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah records with profound sorrow the passing of Jules Pearlstein, father of Rona Kellman, wife of our esteemed board member, Ira Kellman. May the entire family be comforted in this hour of their untimely loss. Manhattan Day School Yeshiva
 PETERSON-The Rev. Martin, C.M. On November 23, 1998. Father Peterson served at St. John's University for many years as a librarian. He also served in the libraries of many Vincentian seminaries on the East Coast. Father is survived by his sister Margaret Papa and many nieces and nephews. Vi
 POPPER-Robert L. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc. mourn the loss of Robert L. Popper, former Board member and cherished friend. Mr. Popper served on our Board for 24 years, and was an avid supporter of our efforts to assist di
 SAMUELS-Arthur. Age 94. Loved by family and friends. Died November 22, 1998. He is survived by his beloved wife Lotte Samuels, two sons, Arthur Jr., Lee and five grandchildren. Interment private.       
 SMITH-Warren H., 93, of Geneva, N.Y. and formerly of New Haven, CT. Died peacefully at home on November 22, 1998. An editor, author and philanthropist, he devoted his life to editing the letters of Horace Walpole at the Yale Library and to interests in local history, libraries and Hobart an
 WEISSER-Max. 88. A well known trial attorney in the state of New York. Died on Sunday, November 22, 1998 at Ormond Beach Memorial Hospital. He was born and raised in New York City and was graduated from St. John's University and Brooklyn Law School. He served in the U.S. Army during WWII. M
 William Kennedy Douglas, the Air Force doctor who cared for Lieut. Col. John H. Glenn Jr. and the nation's six other original astronauts, died on Nov. 15 at Lewisville Medical Center in Lewisville, Tex., near Dallas. He was 76 and lived in Albuquerque, N.M. The cause was a viral inf
 Albert Conde Bickford, a retired Manhattan antitrust lawyer who represented Paramount Pictures during the filmmaker's divestiture of its chain of movie houses, died last Wednesday at his home in Ardsley-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 96. Born on Staten Island, he graduated from Harvard Coll
 BACSO-George. The USPTA mourns the passing of distinguished colleague, past president and USPTA Hall of Fame member George Bacso. We fondly remember his his enthusiasm for life, his years of dedication to our sport and his impact on thousands in the tennis world. His character and commitmen
 CARLE-Larry. Age 58. Died on November 23, 1998. He is survived by his mother Sylvia, his wife Ruth, two sons David & Jonathan and one grandson. Services will be Friday, November 27 at 1PM at Temple Covenant of Peace, 15th and Northampton Streets, Easton, PA. Contributions may be made to Leu
 FOX-Randy. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Randy Fox, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Abby, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 HAMPTON-Henry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our Board member, colleague, and friend, Henry Hampton. Henry brought to the craft of film making the conviction of the educator, the eye of the artist, the subtle intelligence of the historia
 KIM-Earl. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague. Composer, devoted teacher, musician extraordinaire, Earl brought to music colors we only dreamed existed but had never before heard. Creative and imaginative, he was truly inspired. We extend our condolences to his beloved wife, Ma
 POMERANCE-Norman, 72, former book publishing executive and engineer, on November 23, 1998. Husband of Paula Diamond and the late Carol Joan Raynor. Survivors include his son John and daughter-in-law Marcy Parlow Pomerance of Wellesley, Massachusettes; his daughter Jane and son-in-law Whit G
 SCHRANZ-Eva Karp. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Rabbi Allan Schranz, his wife Ellen and children Molly and Asher on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. Our sympathies to the bereaved family, Bernice (Bennett) Pleeter, Esther (Alan) Cohen,
 WILSON-Gerard J. The Board and the staff of The Spanish Institute extends their deepest condolences to Gerard and Joan Wilson for the loss of their beloved son Gerard, who enriched the lives of everyone who knew him. Our sympathy to Gerard's fiancee Kathleen; his brother Michael; his sister
 WILSON-Gerry Red. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Gerry Red Wilson on November 22, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Visitation will be held November 25 and 26 2-5PM and 7-10PM at Frederick's 
 WULFE-Noah. 86. At his home on Nov. 23, 1998. For over 30 years, he owned Noah Wulfe Guitars, NYC, where he sold and repaired string instruments. Also repaired instruments for the H.S. of Music and Art. Survived by wife Lillian and two sons, Daniel and Martin.       
 Thomas Manning, an explorer known as the lone wolf of the Arctic who followed his dog sled and camped in igloos to map desolate reaches of the far north of Canada, died on Nov. 8 in the hospital in Smiths Falls, Ontario, near the gentleman's farm that he had in Merrickville. He was 86.     
 Vladimir P. Demikhov, a Russian surgeon whose pioneering work in performing organ transplants on dogs set the stage for similar operations on humans in later years, died on Sunday. He was 82 and lived in a small apartment on Moscow's outskirts. The Itar-Tass news agency, which repor
 Earl Kim, a composer whose music valued economy, precision and quietude, and who was an important mentor to younger composers during a 23-year career at Harvard University, died last Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78. He had recently been diagnosed with cancer, his 
 Flip Wilson, the popular comedian who became the first black entertainer to be the host of a successful weekly variety show on network television, died last night at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 64. He died of liver cancer, the comedian's assistant, Angie Hill, told The Associa
 Gene Moore, a window dresser who worked such fanciful wonders with shoes and had such a whimsical way with diamonds that he had Fifth Avenue pedestrians doing delighted double takes for more than half a century, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 and best known for turning T
 AARON-Robert S. In San Francisco on November 22, 1998 at age 56. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. he was a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Medical School. A prominent San Frnacisco Psychiatrist. Devoted husband of the late Mayre Rasmussen; beloved brother of Donna and Ken Wirt and William
 HAMPTON-Henry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our Board member, colleague, and friend, Henry Hampton. Henry brought to the craft of film making the conviction of the educator, the eye of the artist, the subtle intelligence of the historia
 HERLING-Erwin. Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem mourns the loss of an extraordinary man whose selflessness and kind heart helped to write a new and glorious chapter in the history of ''The Hospital With A Heart''. A Holocaust victim, he helped to build and strengthen vital instituti
 HOCHSWENDER-William J. Jr., 70, after a brief illness, on Nov 25 at his home in Sharon, CT. Survived by his wife, Mary Allen; his sister, Grace Bowen; his son, Woody, of Sharon; his daughter, Patricia Leri, of Lexington, NY; and three grandchildren. Loved by all. Memorial mass Dec. 5, 11AM,
 KAPLAN-Lewis R. On November 25, 1998. Adoring husband of Lilly. Beloved father of Dr. Ruth Treiber and Harriet Suvall. Also survived by his sons-in-law Dr. Eric Treiber and Marc Suvall and four grandchildren. He enriched the lives of everyone who knew him. Funeral at Temple Israel of New Ro
 KNIGHT-William Gardner. Age 56. Of Delray Beach, FL. On November 21 when his private plane crashed near Annapolis, MD. Mr. Knight graduated from Wabash College and received an MBA from the University of Virginia. He went on to become a Wall Street investment banker and later turned his effo
 RICHSTONE-David. July 22, 1912 to November 22, 1998. Teacher, horticulturist, unparalleled scholar of the English Language. Loving to and loved by all who knew him. A man without guile or deception, with no ambition other than excellence in all his pursuits. He leaves a grieving family with
 SISSELMAN - Shirley Reinberg. The Physicians and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine Faculty Practice Associates extend profound condolences to our friend and colleague, Mike Sisselman, on the loss of Shirley. Our thoughts are with Mike and his family as we mourn the passing of an extra
 Warren Hunting Smith, who devoted more than 50 years of his life to editing the letters of Horace Walpole, died on Sunday at his home in Geneva, N.Y. He was 93. From 1931 to 1982, Mr. Smith worked in Yale University's Sterling Library on a project that had been started in 1924. The 
 Elmer H. Wavering, who as a young man growing up in Quincy, Ill., tinkered in his radio shop and came up with what eventually became the first commercial car radio, died on Friday. He was 91 years old. Mr. Wavering's invention helped him to rise quickly, and eventually  he became th
 Flip Wilson, the popular comedian who became the first black entertainer to be the host of a successful weekly variety show on network television, died Wednesday night at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 64. The cause was liver cancer, his assistant, Angie Hill, said. Mr. W
 Frank William Newell, an eye specialist, teacher and head of many leading ophthalmologic organizations, some of which he helped found, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Chicago. He was 82. The cause was a brain tumor, said the University of Chicago, where he was ophthalmology chairman 
 Dr. George Lee McNew, a plant pathologist who directed the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research for 25 years and negotiated its move to Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., died on Oct. 30 at a retirement community in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 90. The institute was established a
 HECHT-George Anthony. Former bookseller. Died on November 25 in Rye Brook, NY. He was 88. He joined Doubleday & Co. in 1925 and became General Manager of Doubleday Book Shops in 1940. He bacame Vice President of Doubleday & Co. in 1948, President of the Old Corner Bookstore, Inc., in 1950, 
 NEWMAN-Leonard. The officers, directors and employees of DRS Technologies, Inc., mourn the passing of their founder, Leonard Newman, on Tuesday, November 24, 1998, and extend their heartfelt sympathies to his family. Leonard Newman was the former chairman and chief executive officer of DRS 
 Valentin M. Berezhkov, a Russian who interpreted for Stalin and Molotov at conferences that they, Roosevelt and Churchill attended during World War II, died last Friday at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82. At his death he was the Diane and Guilford Glazer Distinguished Visiti
 Dr. William Taylor Miller, an organic chemist and expert in fluorine chemistry who worked on the team that built the atomic bomb in World War II, died on Nov. 15 at the Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 87. Dr. Miller spent 41 years on the faculty at Cornell University, w
 Dick O'Neill, an actor best known for his work as Charlie Cagney in the television series ''Cagney and Lacey,'' died on Nov. 17 at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Jackie. In a career 
 Javier Garcia Paniagua, a former senior Mexican official whose hard-line views exemplified those of a group within the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party known as the ''dinosaurs,'' died of a heart attack on Tuesday in Guadalajara. He was 61. The son of a Defense Minister, 
 Jonathan Kwitny, a journalist and author whose subjects were as varied as Mafia forays into board rooms and papal biography, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 57 and lived in Cuddebackville, N.Y., and Manhattan. The cause was stomach cancer diagnosed
 GREEN-Arthur H., M.D. The Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Columbia University and New York Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the loss of Arthur H. Green, M.D., Clinical Professor of Psychiatry (in Pediatrics). Dr. Green, a member of our faculty for two decades, was 
 HOVELL-Larry Lebanus, Sr, 58, the son of Ellen Stewart, the founder and director of La MaMa E.T.C., of Green Bay, Wisconsin passed away on Monday, November 23, 1998. He was born to Larry and Ellen Stewart Hovell on October 25, 1940 in Chicago, Illinois. Larry attended DuSable High School in
 KAPLAN-Lewis. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York in Westchester note with sorrow the passing of Lewis Kaplan, beloved husband of Lilly, father of Harriet Suvall and Dr. Ruth Treiber, father-in-law of Mark Suvall and Dr. Eric Treiber and grandfather of Jonathan, Adam, Dav
 KEHAYA-Ery W. Of Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, FL, age 75, died November 23, 1998, at his home in Florida. He was born in New York City on October 17, 1923, the son of Ery Kehaya Sr. of Turkey and Grace Whitaker of Winston-Salem, NC. He was educated at the St. Paul's School in Concord, NH and
 KRUPNICK-David. Beloved husband of Linda Small. Devoted father of Scott. Cherished son of Ida (nee Rappaport). Dear brother of Sheldon. Funeral service Sunday 9AM, Kane St Synagogue, 236 Kane Street, Brooklyn. For info Raccuglia & Son 718-855-7737. KRUPNICK-David. The officers, mana
 LITTERST-Harry B. Age 83, of Oakland, NJ on November 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Vivian (nee Hintze), loving father of Mary Litterst of Brookline, MA, Terry Litterst of Newbury, MA, Deborah Litterst Barbara of Alexandria, VA., and the late Stacy Litterst of Sonoma, CA. Stepfather of Arthur
 MANKIN-David S. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MOSMANN-Walter A. Herman, DDS, FACD, Palmyra, New York. Formerly of Ridgewood, NJ. Died on Nov. 18, 1998. He is survived by his wife Mary Ellen Mosmann; daughters, Pamela Hayes, Sarah Christine (Michele) & Charles DeBoer, Linda Kepford; 5 grandchildren, Tanya Hayes, Elizabeth, Peter DeBoer,
 SECOFSKY-Abe. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 SIZEMORE-John Randall. Of New York City and East Hampton, died of AIDS at his Manhattan residence on November 27, 1998. He was 48 years old. Mr. Sizemore was the beloved partner for 25 years of Norbert Alan Anuskiewicz, as well as a devoted brother to Saundra Joe Sizemore of Southfield, Mic
 Robert Eisner, former president of the American Economic Association and a staunch advocate of a view unpopular among an increasing number of academic economists that active Government spending is needed to achieve full employment and growth, died Wednesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He 
 Allan Raymond Johnson, a former chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue who helped shepherd the elegant department store through an era of rapid expansion, died on Thanksgiving Day at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 82 and had lived in Manhattan. The cause was complic
 Emil G. Reynolds, a globe-trotting press photographer who covered World War II and other events, died last Sunday at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. He was 93 and lived in Long Branch. Mr. Reynolds, who was born in Vienna but grew up in Newark, supplied his work to Unit
 Erik Nitsche, an art director, graphic designer, photographer, illustrator and book packager known for his posters, advertisements, logos and book designs, died on Nov. 10 in Danbury, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Nitsche was born in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1908 and worked in Switzerland, 
 M. Donald Grant, who as chairman of the Mets ordered the controversial trade of Tom Seaver in 1977 and whose decision to shun free agents at the start of the free-agent era helped send the team on a disastrous downward spiral, died at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla., yesterday. He was 94.     
 BENDER-Sidney. Age 74. On November 26, 1998. Loving husband of Helen for 49 years. Cherished father of Rona & Arty, Bruce & Amy. Loving grandfather of Daniel, Pamela & Rebecca. Dear brother of Alice Stone. Beloved brother-in-law and uncle. His presence will be sorely missed.       
 EHRLICH-Alex. In loving memory of Alex Ehrlich, the kindest, gentlest, sweetest man the world has known who will be greatly missed by his wife Gert, his sons Kenny & Andy, daughters-in-law Melinda and Marie and sister Rosalin and brothers Bob and Manny and grandsons Jay, Matthew & Mark who 
 FLAM-Martin. On November 27, 1998. Devoted brother of George Flam and Marilyn (Herb) Fisher. Loving uncle to many nieces and nephews. A great friend to all. Served his country bravely during WW II. He will always be remembered and loved. FLAM-Martin. ''Uncle Ike.'' We will remember 
 GREEN-Dr. Arthur H. The staff and trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Dr. Arthur H. Green, psychiatrist at JBFCS' Child Development Center. Dr. Green's innovative work with abused children enriched the lives of many and made a lasting contribu
 HAMPTON-Henry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our Board member, colleague, and friend, Henry Hampton. Henry brought to the craft of film making the conviction of the educator, the eye of the artist, the subtle intelligence of the historia
 JOHNSON-Allan R. November 26, 1998. Beloved husband Maria, devoted father of Jane Fell, Kathy Jones, Susan Johnson & Barbara Hobin, cherished grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of four, loving brother of Patrick Johnson, cherished Godfather of Steven Toia. With Saks Fifth Avenue for
 KRUPNICK-David. The officers, management and staff of our company announce with deep regret the death of David Krupnick, who has been a devoted member of our firm for many years. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Linda and his son, Scott. Services to be held Sunday, 9 AM, Kane Street Sy
 LEBER-Alexander. Friend and lover. Hero. Cherished life mate of Adam Waitt. Born Wiesbaden, March 19th, 1952. Son of Angelika. Brother of Thomas. Uncle of Simon. This most wondrous of German imports, Alex, had an unyielding passion for life. His courage and dignity awe inspiring. Death came
 LEWIS-Merwin. One of New York's oldest practicing attorneys, died on November 27, 1998, two days before his 98th birthday. A graduate of CCNY and Columbia Law School, Mr. Lewis practiced Labor Law and Estate Planning in the firm of Olvany, Eisner, and Donnelly for 72 years. He was a member 
 MANDOLFO-Anthony. Died at home November 13, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Dolores (Dori) Mancini Mandolfo. Survived by a beloved sister Tina Shea of Cromwell, CT. Born in Middletown, CT. Tony was educated and worked in Boston. A noted interior designer, he worked at several major archit
 NEWHOUSE-Theodore. 95. Died on November 28, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Caroline. Loving father of the late Jane. Devoted grandfather of Julie and Amy, grandfather-in-law and great-grandfather of Joshua, Isaac, Jonathan, Sarah, Jill and Emily. Services Monday, November 30
 PEISER-Peter Dietrich. Adored father, admired friend; died on Friday, November 27, 1998, at home in New York City, age 73. Born in Bonn, Germany, he moved with his mother to London aged 10, where he was raised and educated. At 28 he was employed by E.R. Squibb & Sons, and remained with them
 SAPER-Murray, DDS. On November 21, 1998. The officers, directors, members and staff of The New York County Dental Society mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague, friend and past president. Murray's warmth, humility and love of the profession, his unselfish devotion to family, fr
 SCHLEMOWITZ-Abram. Age 88. Sculptor and teacher. Died on November 13, after a long illness. He is missed by his wife Carol, his sons Henry Sanders, Peter, Jerry, Joel and Carl, his daughter Cili Shannon, his five grandchildren and one great-grandchild, his brother Leo and nephew Peter.     
 SERGOLD-Leon. We record with profound sorrow the passing of Leon Sergold, beloved husband of Eveline, devoted father of Audrey Levinson & Viviane and Steven Verstandig, loving grandfather of Adam, Michael and Lauren Verstandig. Cherished brother of Maurice Swergold and Cecile Platovsky. Ser
 SHELTON-Talbot. Age 84, of NYC and Southampton, died Wednesday, November 25, 1998 after a brief illness. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, Mr. Shelton graduated Cum Laude from Stanford University in 1937 and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and received a LLB from Harvard University in 1940. Join
 SINGLETON-GREEN-Allan. On November 24, 1998. Devoted husband of Patti Gill, loving father of Allanby and Hilary. Born in Manchester, England, raised in Yorkshire. Graduate of Hymer's College in Hull, the University of Cambridge (Clare College in 1951, with Honors) and Harvard Business Schoo
 SIZEMORE-John Randall. Of New York City and East Hampton, died of AIDS at his Manhattan residence on November 27, 1998. He was 48 years old. Mr. Sizemore was the beloved partner for 25 years of Norbert Alan Anuskiewicz, as well as a devoted brother to Saundra Joe Sizemore of Southfield, Mic
 SMITH-Page Wright. Of Palm Beach, Florida and Easton, Maryland died November 26th, 1998 at his residence in Palm Beach, Florida. He was 84 years old. He was the son of Paul and Marjorie Smith of Portersville, California. He was a well known hunter and fisherman. A graduate from the Universi
 WENGER-Milton B. Beloved father, brother, grandfather, with the soul of a poet. May he find peace and feel eternal love.       
 Rolando La Serie, one of the great Cuban singers of his time, died last Sunday at Healthsouth Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 75. The cause was cardiac complications, The Associated Press reported. Mr. La Serie had a big, open voice, slightly hoarse and aggres
 Stephen K-M Tim, a botanist and illustrator who was a guiding force for many of the exhibits and publications of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died on Nov. 21 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Tim, who was the garden's vice presi
 Stuart Sutherland, a British psychologist who analyzed his own brush with mental illness in the most remarkable of his insightful books, died on Nov. 8 in his home in Brighton, England. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said the University of Sussex, where he was professor em
 Theodore Newhouse, who began a lifelong career in publishing as a manager of a family-owned newspaper, The Long Island Press, and helped his brothers assemble one of the nation's biggest communications conglomerates, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Riverdale section of
 Anthony Salvatore, a Grammy Award-winning recording engineer, died on Nov. 18 at Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. Mr. Salvatore worked with RCA Records from 1955 to 1993, then retired to work independently. He wo
 Dr. Robert Silber, a hematologist and educator, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 67. The cause was heart disease, his family said. At his death Dr. Silber had been a clinical professor of medicine at Duke University Medical Center in Durham for six years. He
 M. Donald Grant, a winning amateur competitor in hockey, squash and golf who became the controversial chairman of the Mets and enjoyed mixed success, died at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla., on Saturday. He was 94. As the Mets' chairman, Mr. Grant made the key move that led to the team
 GRANT-Michael Donald. Of Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, FL, age 94. Died peacefully on November 28, 1998, at home. Beloved husband of Alice Waters Grant for 66 years. Loving father of Sheila (deceased), Michael D. Grant, Jr., of Greenwich, CT, Thomas W. Grant, and Patricia G. Warner, both of L
 HANKIN-Leonard J. Age 81. On November 28, 1998. Retired Executive Vice President of Bergdorf Goodman. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Devoted father of Kim Hankin Barrett and Lyn Hankin. Adoring grandfather to Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Co
 HERLING - Erwin. American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn the passing of Erwin Herling, a devoted member of our Presidential Founder's Society. His commitment and brilliance strengthened many Jewish communal causes in Israel, the United States, and Europe. May his beloved wife, Tova, a
 HOROWITZ-Alex. We mourn the sudden and untimely passing of Alex Horowitz. Beloved husband of Muriel and the late Laura Horowitz. Devoted father of Dr. Alan Horowitz, of Farmington Hills, MI, and Dr. Richard and Mindy Horowitz of Roslyn Heights. Adoring grandfather of Andrew, Jeffrey, Alyson
 JOHNSON-Allan R. November 26, 1998. Beloved husband Maria, devoted father of Jane Fell, Kathy Jones, Susan Johnson & Barbara Hobin, cherished grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of four, loving brother of Patrick Johnson, cherished Godfather of Steven Toia. With Saks Fifth Avenue for
 LEWIS-Merwin. It is with sorrow that the Directors of Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company record the death of their dear friend and colleague, Merwin Lewis, in his 99th year. The Lewis family has been prominently identified with our Company since its founding 85 years ago. Merwin Lewi
 MANKIN-David. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar David Mankin, on November 26, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be on Monday, November 30, at 11 AM, at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck
 NEWHOUSE-Theodore. 95. Died on November 28, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Caroline. Loving father of the late Jane. Devoted grandfather of Julie and Amy, grandfather-in-law and great-grandfather of Joshua, Isaac, Jonathan, Sarah, Jill and Emily. Services Monday, November 30
 ROOSEVELT-P. James. Investor, yachtsman, philanthropist. Beloved husband of Philippa; father of Lenore, Philip, Michael and Jean; grandfather of three. Died November 27, in Oyster Bay, NY. In nearly half a century on Wall Street, he founded or co-founded three investment firms. A cousin of 
 SCHUR-Bertram H. 80. Former Associate General Counsel to the Atomic Energy Commission and Department of Energy, died on Friday, November 27, 1998, at his home in Wilton, CT, after a lengthy illness. Schur attended Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire, graduated from Harvard College and 
 SCHWARTZ-Saul A., M.D. 91. Professor Emeritus, New York Medical College. Formerly of Mt. Vernon, NY. Passed away Sunday in Cherry Hill, NJ. He practiced medicine in the Bronx for 65 years. He established a chapter of Alpha Omega Alpha, the honorary medical society. He worked with Dr. Burril
 SERGOLD-Leon. We extend heartfelt condolences to Eveline Sergold on the passing of her beloved husband, Leon. He was an extraordinary and humble man whose very being radiated kindness, dignity and modesty. As Chairman and founder of the medical center's Woodlands Country Club activities in 
 WEISS-Joseph. Age 83. Lifetime activist for freedom and justice, human rights and equality. Struggled for tenants' rights and against the privatization of city hospitals. Tutor for Coney Island Learning Center-Adult Literacy. Beloved companion of the late Victoria O'Mara. Joe will be rememb
 WENGER-Milton B. Beloved father, brother, grandfather, with the soul of a poet. May he find peace and feel eternal love.       
 Former Representative Dante B. Fascell, a Florida Democrat who was chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee from 1984 through 1992, died on Saturday at his home in Clearwater, Fla. He was 81 and had lived in Miami until June. The cause was colon cancer, The Associated Press r
