 Douglas A. McCrary, a rancher, community leader and a decorated World War II pilot, died at his home in Calvert, Tex., on June 16. He was 83. He had been battling cancer. Mr. McCrary, who was born in Calvert in 1914, attended Philips Exeter Academy and graduated from Yale Un
 Edward F. Preston, a former executive with the Office of Management and Budget who helped develop the Senior Executive Service, died on June 8. He was 79 and lived in Alexandria, Va. Mr. Preston began working in the Treasury Department in 1948 as an intern with the Office of the Sec
 Franny Murray, who starred in football and basketball for the University of Pennsylvania in the mid-1930's, then became embroiled in a major controversy over his ambitious football program as Penn's athletic director in the early 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was
 The Rev. Dr. Paul Matthews van Buren, a leading exponent of the ''death of God'' school of theology, died on June 18 at Memorial Hospital in Blue Hill, Me. He was 74 and lived on nearby Little Deer Isle. The cause was cancer, his family said last week in an announcement of his death
 Having quietly expanded its research operations and recruited a new crop of scientists since it was embroiled in a research fraud case seven years ago, Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in Manhattan, has selected a prominent cancer researcher as its next president,
 Ralph S. Brown, a law professor at Yale Law School for more than four decades and an expert on unfair competition, copyright, government security and the rights of individuals, died on June 17. He was 85 and lived in Guilford, Conn. Mr. Brown, who taught his last course, ''Copyright
 Anthony Avena, a shoeshiner of 75 years whose shop became a Queens institution and who successfully fought the city to save it, died on June 22. He was 83 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was bladder cancer, said Helen Avena, his wife of nearly 58 years. When he wa
 Edward Danforth Eddy, an educator, college administrator and frequent commentator on women's education and educational excellence, died on Sunday at his home in South Kingstown, R.I. He was 77. The cause was prostate cancer, according to the Avery-Storti Funeral Home in Wakefield, a
 Frank Byron Rowlett, one of the foursome who started the Signal Intelligence Service of the United States Army in 1930, died on Monday at the Wilson Health Care Center in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 90 and moved to the center last year from a retirement home in Sarasota, Fla. Mr. Rowle
 Theodore Beaubrun, one of Haiti's leading comedians and actors, died on Tuesday at his home in a Port-au-Prince suburb. He was 79. He had been waging a long battle against Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Ginette. Mr. Beaubrun, who was widely known as Languichatte, or cat
 William L. Snyder, an Academy Award-winning animation producer, died on June 3 at the Adventist Nursing Home in Livingston, N.Y. He was 80. He died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Adam Snyder. With his signature Cuban cigar in hand, Mr. Snyder was am
 Bruce Cratsley, a photographer whose subjects ranged from light-soaked still lifes and portraits of friends to celebratory documents of gay and lesbian life in New York City, died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was complications from AIDS, accor
 Franklin B. Pollock, a self-made businessman who rose to vice chairman of Dart Industries, died June 26 at his home in Holmby Hills, Calif. He was 95. Born in Brooklyn in 1903, Mr. Pollock began his career as a salesman for the Imperial Cork Company and later became chairman of the 
 Herbert Haufrecht, a composer, pianist, folklorist and music editor, died on June 23 at the Albany Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Shady, N.Y. Mr. Haufrecht was born in New York City and studied at the Cleveland Institute of Music, where his teachers included the composers He
 Irving Sloane, a self-taught luthier whose how-to books on high-end guitar construction paved the way for the current proliferation of finely crafted hand-built guitars, died on June 21. He was 73. The cause was renal-cell cancer, said his son David. Mr. Sloane grew up on th
 Richard A. Orange Jr., a management consultant who used his knowledge and love of jazz to help executives see the strength of improvisation and teamwork, died June 4 at New York University Hospital. He was 48 years old. The cause of death was a stroke, said his sister, Taur.        
 Steven A. Galef, a Manhattan lawyer who was active in health and community affairs in Westchester County, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 58 and lived in Ossining, N.Y. The cause was throat cancer, his family said. Mr. Galef, who was a senior
 Frank L. Goffio, a former executive director of CARE who helped shape its present mission of sending disaster relief and assistance for self-help projects to the far corners of the world, died on June 27 at a nursing home in Avon, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Farmington, Conn. Mr. G
 Gardner Patterson, a prominent trade economist and a prolific writer who helped negotiate several important international treaties, died at his home in Washington, on June 26. He was 82. Dr. Patterson died from lymphoma. A native of Burt, Iowa, Dr. Patterson had a doctorate 
 Lawrence Campbell, a critic who chronicled New York's contemporary art scene for nearly four decades, while also painting, teaching art history and working as an editor, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84  and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Campbell was m
 Lev Rokhlin, a onetime Russian lieutenant general, national legislator and leader of a splinter movement aimed at deposing President Boris N. Yeltsin, was killed with a shot to his head today after a family celebration at his country home outside Moscow. He was 51. Radical members o
 Renato Capecchi, an Italian baritone and character actor who was best known for his deft portrayals of comic roles, died on Tuesday at his home in Milan. He was 74. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Tony Russo, his spokesman. Mr. Capecchi was a regul
 William D. Carey, a former executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a former assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget, died on June 24 at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was chronic lung disease, said his son, Eric. 
 Aram Glorig, a leading expert on the effects of noise in the workplace whose work helped untold numbers of people with deafness or hearing loss, died on June 22 at the South Coast Medical Center in San Clemente, Calif. He was 92 and lived in San Clemente. Dr. Glorig's career as a fo
 John J. Ryan, a former investment banker and founder of John J. Ryan & Company, died on June 23 at River Extended Care Residence in Red Bank, N.J. A resident of Palm Beach, Fla., and Red Bank, he was 86. He began his financial career in 1928 when he was 18, as a runner in the Wall S
 Vernon F. Snow, a foundation executive and retired professor of English history and Western civilization at Syracuse University, died June 24 at his home in Jamesville, N.Y. He was 73 and also had a home in Marco Island, Fla. The cause was cancer, Syracuse University officials said.
 Col. Andrew Croft, a British explorer of the frozen north who became an expert on winter warfare during World War II and made his expertise available to the United States Army during the Korean War, died on June 26. He was 91 and lived in London. Colonel Croft, an Oxford graduate wh
 The jazz drummer, pianist and composer Errol Parker, whose thick and highly arranged music doggedly confirmed African connections in jazz, died at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, the composer 
 John H. Prescott, a marine biologist who directed the New England Aquarium in Boston for 22 years and was among the first to describe how dolphins use sound waves to find food, died on Tuesday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his family said. Ear
 Sid Luckman, the Columbia University star and quarterback of the great Chicago Bears teams of the 1940's who helped trigger a revolution in how the game of football was played, died yesterday at Aventura (Fla.) Hospital and Medical Center. Luckman, who lived in Aventura, was 81. Luc
 Louis L. Goldstein, an indelible figure in Maryland politics as well as one of the longest-serving state officials in American history, died on Friday night at his home in Prince Frederick, Md. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, family members said. As Comptroller of M
 Roy Rogers, a shoe factory worker's son from Cincinnati who rode a golden palomino and a harmonious voice to fame as Hollywood's most beloved and quintessential singing cowboy, died yesterday at his ranch in Apple Valley near Victorville, Calif. He was 86. With a guitar propped on h
 Alfred Fromm, a leader in the early days of the California wine industry, died at his home in San Francisco on Thursday. He was 93. Mr. Fromm was born in Kitzingen, Bavaria, the fourth generation of a family of wine makers at Bingen on the Rhine. Fleeing from the Nazis, in 1936 he c
 Bruce M. Galphin, executive director of the international wine competition in Atlanta and a former writer for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and The Washington Post, died on Monday at Brian Center in Canton, Ga. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was complications from a st
 Evan Whallon, an American conductor who led orchestras in the United States and Europe, died on June 14 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. A resident of Gaithersburg, Md., he was 74 and formerly lived in Columbus, Ohio, where he served as conductor and music director of the Columbus Symp
 Moshood Kashimawoo Olawale Abiola, who died yesterday just as his release from prison appeared imminent, apparently won Nigeria's presidency in 1993. But instead of serving in office, he endured years in detention, in increasingly bad health, and he collapsed yesterday just as he me
 Owen McGivern, the son of an iceman who with the backing of Tammany Hall, Manhattan's powerful Democratic organization, rose through the ranks to become presiding justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 87.      
 Fred Golden, a dean among theatrical advertising men and winner of a special Tony Award in 1988, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Golden started his career in 1931 as a messenger for the Blaine Thompson Company, a theater advertising agency that spawned most o
 Semon E. Knudsen, who had been a high-ranking executive at the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the White Motor Corporation, died on Monday at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 85. Mr. Knudsen, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who was invariably c
 Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New York Times who was one of the first to write about the Japanese atrocities in China that became known as the Rape of Nanking, died on Tuesday at the Green Hospital in San Diego. He was 91 and lived in San Diego. In Decembe
 George Lloyd, a British symphonist and opera composer who rejected the major stylistic currents of the 20th century in favor of the language, coloration and sheer lushness of late Romanticism, died on July 3 at University College Hospital in London. He was 85. Critics were divided a
 Warren B. Cozzens, a pioneer in the development of the modern electrocardiogram, died on July 2 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 81 and lived in Evanston. He died of a respiratory ailment after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Cozzens was an inventor whose f
 Wayne Calloway, the former chairman and chief executive of Pepsico who combined a quiet, introspective leadership style with an intensely competitive business strategy, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and had been battling prostate can
 The Rev. Bernard Haring, a Roman Catholic scholar who influenced the sweeping modernization of Vatican II by emphasizing a moral theology of Christian love rather than the cataloguing of sins, died July 3 at a German monastery. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, according to the Cat
 Elijah Pitts, a running back for the Green Bay Packers during their glory years of the 1960's and the assistant head coach of the outstanding Buffalo Bills teams of the 1990's, died yesterday at Mercy General Hospital in Buffalo. He was 60. He had been suffering from abdominal cance
 James P. Rod, a naturalist who revealed the secret world of Hudson River snapping turtles, muskrats and cattails to governors and schoolchildren alike as warden of a protected marsh in Garrison, N.Y., died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 53. The caus
 Peter K. Bloch, a founder and former president of Branson Instruments, a company that developed ultrasound fetal monitoring and a number of other medical and commercial uses for ultrasound, died on Tuesday in New London, N.H. He was 79 and lived in New London. The cause of death was
 William Mazer, who made his fortune in the paper industry and shared it with charities at home and in Israel, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.  He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Mazer embraced the philanthropic traditions and commitments of h
 Irwin H. (Sonny) Bloch, a radio show host who persuaded hundreds of listeners to invest in worthless securities, bilking them of $21 million, died on March 10 at a relative's home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. He was 61 and lived in Tampa, Fla. The cause was lung cancer, said Otto Dube
 Lord Rayner, who oversaw a revival and vast expansion of Britain's leading retailer as chairman and chief executive of Marks & Spencer P.L.C., died on June 26, the company announced in London. He was 72. The tight financial controls and strong management practices that Lord Rayner a
 Curtis Jay Berger, who trained generations of aspiring lawyers in the fine points of real estate and property law, died on Monday at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, according to Columbia Law School, where he was the Lawrence A. Wien Professor
 Richard Niles Bull, a dancer, choreographer and educator, died July 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was lung cancer, said Gill Wright Miller, a friend. A genial man who stood by his esthetic convictions with a wit that was at times cantankerous, Mr. Bull was
 Clyde de Loache Ryals, a Duke University English professor and an authority on British Victorian literature, died on Friday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 69. The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Fred Kaplan. Professor Ryals was a co-editor of a multivolume editio
 Jack Friedberg, an authority on currency and the former president of a nationwide coin dealership, died on June 14 at Scottsdale Health Care Hospital in Arizona. Mr. Friedberg, a Scottsdale resident, was 83 and formerly lived in Roslyn, N.Y. He was president of the Capitol Coin Comp
 Paul L. Klein, an executive who helped pioneer new forms of pay television, died on July 4 at the Plaza Fifty Suite Hotel in Manhattan, where he was staying with his wife. He was 69 and lived in Catskill, N.Y. He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, his family said.     
 Robert S. Burger, a former journalist and professor who later spent more than three decades teaching business executives how to write, died on July 5 at Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. He was 84 and lived in West Chester. Mr. Burger, who was a reporter for The St. Paul 
 Ronald Lawrence Mace, a polio victim who devoted his life as an architect and industrial designer to devising environments suitable for all people regardless of age or condition, died on June 29 at his home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 58. The cause was heart arrhythmia resulting from po
 The Rev. George H. Dunne, a Jesuit priest who was an impassioned critic of racial segregation and prominent in ecumenical efforts to combat poverty and foster peace, died on June 30 in a hospital in Los Gatos, Calif., outside San Jose, near the Jesuit retirement community where he had been 
 Jack Hausman, a retired textile manufacturer who raised millions of dollars as a founder of New York and national organizations to benefit people with cerebral palsy, died on Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 and for many years also had a home on Long Island.      
 John Michael O'Mara, a retired vice president of New York University who had an earlier career as a rackets investigator, died on June 19 at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. A former resident of Leonia, N.J., he was 84 and more recently lived in Norwood, N.J. The 
 Maurice Sorrell, a photographer who covered the height of the civil rights era in the South and became the first black member of the White House Photographers Association,  died on June 22 at Providence Hospital in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Washington. Mr. Sorrell was a new
 Paul Q. Chow, who helped lead the effort to preserve and restore the Angel Island Immigration Station as the Ellis Island of the West Coast, died on June 30 at his home in San Francisco. He was 69. The cause was liver disease, said Daniel Quan, president of the Angel Island Immigrat
 Morris (Red) Badgro, whom Red Grange, the legendary running back, called ''one of best half-dozen ends I ever saw,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Kent, Wash., outside Seattle. He was 95 years old and the oldest living member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He had been hospitali
 Watkins M. Abbitt, a Virginia Democratic Congressman who advocated school segregation but supported a black candidate for governor more than 30 years later, died on Monday at Virginia Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Va. He was 90 and lived in Appomattox, Va. Mr. Abbitt had been suffe
 Nguyen Ngoc Loan, the quick-tempered South Vietnamese national police commander whose impromptu execution of a Viet Cong prisoner on a Saigon street in the Tet offensive of 1968 helped galvanize American public opinion against the war, died on Tuesday at his home in Burke, Va. He was 67 and
 Richard McDonald, who with his brother Maurice revolutionized the way that billions of people around the world eat in fast-food restaurants, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Manchester, N.H. He was 89 and lived in nearby Bedford, N.H. From a single hamburger stand in San Bernard
 Mahbub ul Haq, a former Finance Minister of Pakistan and an early proponent of economic liberalization who in later years argued that poor countries failed to prosper because they neglected the basic development of their people, died yesterday in New York. He was 64. The cause of de
 Robert Gorham Davis, a prolific literary critic and a professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, died yesterday at the Vernon Hall Nursing Home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Cambridge. Mr. Davis was the author of influential studies of John Dos Passos, C. P. 
 Henry J. Leir, who built a leading commodities trading firm and became a dedicated philanthropist after selling his company in 1968, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 98 and had gone to his New York office every day until Tuesday, said Steven Rosenthal, who had worked for Mr. Leir the 
 Sgt. Maj. Herbert J. Sweet, who served as the top enlisted marine during the corps' heaviest fighting in Vietnam, died on June 18 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 79. A Marine Corps statement said the cause was respiratory failure. Sergeant Major Sweet, who grew up in T
 James Flora, a magazine art director and children's book author and illustrator who in the early 1940's became one of the first artists to design and illustrate record album covers, helping to transform the way records were marketed, died on July 9 at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 84. 
 Joseph Anthony Mazzeo, a Renaissance scholar at Columbia University whose interests ranged from Egyptian hieroglyphics to biology to  television, died on July 6 in Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. He suffered a brief illness, said Iris L. Beller
 Octav Botnar, one of the first businessmen to import Japanese cars to Britain and whose last years were clouded by a huge tax scandal, died on July 11 at his home in Villars, Switzerland. He was 84. Mr. Botnar had been suffering from stomach cancer, British newspapers reported.     
 Robert Howe Connery, a prolific author as well as a teacher and administrator, died on July 3 at a retirement community in Falls Church, Va. He was 90. Dr. Connery taught at various universities for over four decades. He was the author, co-author or editor of more than a score of bo
 Alvin Chriss, a New York lawyer and sports administrator who created the system that allowed track and field athletes around the world to be paid, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 68 years old. His son Joel said brain cancer was diagnosed seven weeks ago. In 19
 Martin Seymour-Smith, a British literary critic, biographer, editor and poet whose more than 40 books ranged from an annotated compilation of Shakespeare's ''Sonnets'' in the original spelling to stylish, opinionated biographies of Rudyard Kipling, Robert Graves and Thomas Hardy, died on Ju
 William I. Bertsche, who had such a rapid-fire way with recondite words that he spent his life rattling off more than a dozen languages into English, died on July 11 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., he was 79 and had been one of the nation's leading do
 Henry Rawle Geyelin Jr., a retired New York business executive who helped start Operation Sail for the 1976 Bicentennial and the tall ships' birthday salute to the Statue of Liberty in 1986, died July 5 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 79 and also had a home in Seal H
 John Henrik Clarke, an Alabama sharecropper's son whose thirst for unfettered knowledge led him to hop a freight train to New York and transform himself into an African history scholar who helped spur the development of black studies and who spent six decades as a gadfly fixture in the inte
 Thomas Corwin Mendenhall, the sport of rowing's foremost American historian and a former president of Smith College, died on Saturday at Windemere, a long-term care facility on Martha's Vineyard, where he and his wife lived. He was 88. The cause was cardiac arrest after a long illne
 Dr. David H. Nichols, a surgeon whose research on pelvic reconstruction and incontinence focused attention on the long-neglected medical needs of women in their 60's, 70's and 80's, died on Wednesday in his office at Brown University. He was 72 and lived in Providence, R.I. The caus
 Frank Xavier Altimari, a senior Federal appeals judge who wrote the ruling that affirmed the ban on begging in city subways and transit terminals, died on Sunday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was brain cancer, said his daughter, Vera Shields. As a ju
 Joseph Maher, a veteran character actor of extraordinary range who was best known for his roles in the mordant comedies of Joe Orton, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was a brain tumor, said Joan Scott, his agent. Over more than four decades, M
 Bob McAllister, who talked his way into a television career without moving his lips, became the host of an acclaimed children's show, then made magic his metier, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 and best known for his decade as the ebullient, Buster Brown-coiffed host of '
 Miroslav Holub, the Czech poet and immunologist known for his ironic wit, his impatience with irrationality and his knifelike poetry full of scientific imagery, died on July 14 in Prague, where he lived. He was 74. One of the major Eastern European poets to emerge after World War II
 Alan B. Shepard Jr., the first American to fly in space, lifting national spirits at a decisive moment of cold war anxiety, and later one of only 12 astronauts to walk on the Moon, died late Tuesday night at a hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Houston and Pebble Beach, Cal
 Dr. Charles L. Wisseman, an expert on insect-borne diseases who headed the microbiology department at the University of Maryland School of Medicine for 32 years, died on July 12 at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 78 and lived in nearby Cockeysville, Md. The 
 Corbett Monica, the durable comedian whose gentle jokes went down so well for so long that he spent more than 40 years touring as the opening act for Frank Sinatra and other big name singers, died yesterday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 68 and best recalled by television audiences
 Robert Young, an actor who created solid, wholesome, common-sense characters on television in ''Father Knows Best'' and ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,''  died on Tuesday night at his home in Westlake Village, a Los Angeles suburb. He was 91. After a prolific career as a dependable film actor
 Don Dunphy, the nasal-voiced announcer who brought the Friday night fights into America's living rooms in the era when voices had faces, died on Wednesday night at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 90. In a career marked by his election to 10 halls of fame, Mr. Dunphy, wit
 Hermann Prey, the German baritone who was in the 46th year of an international career as an acclaimed singer of lieder and opera, died on Wednesday night in Munich. He had recently turned 69. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to Sissy Strauss, an artistic liaison at t
 Mark Hampton, the interior decorator whose relaxed traditionalism was embraced by America's stylish elite, making him a celebrated symbol of gracious living for decades, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 58 and had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. 
 Buck Mickel, who helped bring about the corporate marriage that created the modern Fluor Corporation in 1977, died on Thursday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 72. A Fluor spokeswoman said that Mr. Mickel, who had seemed in good health, had apparently died in his sleep. No cau
 Murray Patrick, who was raised in a legendary family of professional hockey players and builders in the middle decades of the century and became a player, coach and general manager of the Rangers, died Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 83. His son, Dick, said that Patr
 Tazio Secchiaroli, the celebrity-hounding photographer who was the inspiration for Paparazzo, a central character in Federico Fellini's 1960 movie ''La Dolce Vita,'' died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Rome at age 73. His son, David, said the cause was a heart attack. Mr. Sec
 Abraham I. Katsh, a scholar of Judaica and Hebrew studies who introduced modern Hebrew to American university classrooms, and a relentless researcher who persuaded the Soviet authorities to allow him to reproduce thousands of Jewish documents in their custody at the height of the cold war, 
 Charles Haskill, the former president of the shipbuilding company that made the Edmund Fitzgerald, a freighter whose demise during a storm in Lake Superior was memorialized in a popular song by Gordon Lightfoot, died on July 16 at his home in Farmington Hills, Mich. He was 94. The c
 Prof. Charles William Mann Jr., a sleuth of the unpublished Hemingway and the keeper of rare books at Pennsylvania State University for the last four decades, died on July 17  at his home in Baltimore. He was 68 and also lived in State College, Pa. The cause was a heart attack,  Pen
 Garland Wright, a versatile stage director who was for many years the artistic director of the Tyrone Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his friend Cynthia Mayeda.      
 Michael Denison, who epitomized the English gentleman in scores of roles on stage, screen, television and radio and who, with Dulcie Gray, formed one of acting's most durable husband-and-wife teams, died on Wednesday at his home in Amersham, a Buckinghamshire town about 30 miles southwest o
 Raymond D. Gerwe, a chemist and developer of two United States patents, died July 12 of congestive heart failure. He was 94 and lived in Lakeland, Fla. Mr. Gerwe was born in Cincinnati on May 28, 1904. He received a bachelor's degree in chemistry and mathematics from Miami Universit
 Rex Applegate, a member of the storied O.S.S. who taught fellow intelligence officers how to kill an enemy quickly, and preferably silently, in face-to-face combat during World War II, died on July 14 in the University of California at San Diego Medical Center. He was 84 years old and lived
 Roland (Tiny) Rowland, the British business tycoon labeled ''the unacceptable face of capitalism'' by Prime Minister Edward Heath in the 1970's but hailed by Nelson Mandela as a friend of Africa, died on Saturday in London, The Observer reported today. He was 80. Mr. Rowland had bee
 Tossy Spivakovsky, a violinist and teacher who developed a special bowing technique for the performance of the solo Bach suites, and who gave the first American performances of Bartok's Second Violin Concerto, died on July 20 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Spivakovsky
 Henri Ziegler, a trained pilot and commander of the Free French Air Force in World War II who helped start some of Europe's most ambitious postwar aviation projects, including the Concorde supersonic jetliner and the Airbus civilian airliner program, died at a nursing home in Paris on July 
 Tal Farlow, one of jazz's best-known guitarists, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in Sea Bright, N.J., and Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Michele Hyk-Farlow. Mr. Farlow, one of the early 
 Matteo Manuguerra, a French baritone who was admired for his versatility and dramatic acuity, died in Montpellier, France, on Thursday. He was 73 and lived in Montpellier. He died of congestive heart failure three days after a stroke, his manager, Robert Lombardo, said. Star
 William McChesney Martin Jr., the chairman of the Federal Reserve for 19 years, spanning five Administrations, from that of Harry S. Truman to Richard M. Nixon, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 91. Mr. Martin, a plain-spoken Democrat from Missouri, detested inflation
 Zbigniew Herbert, the Polish poet and essayist who insisted that civilization depended on artists' staking out clear moral positions resistant to the winds of history and ideology, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 73. The cause of death was not disclosed, but a longtime friend and f
 Bill Tuttle, a former American League outfielder who waged a campaign against the use of chewing tobacco after developing oral cancer that left him disfigured, died Monday at a hospice in Brooklyn Center, Minn. Mr. Tuttle, who lived in Anoka, Minn., and who had been battling cancer since 19
 Jerome Robbins, who simultaneously became one of 20th-century ballet's greatest choreographers and a towering innovator in Broadway musicals, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. Mr. Robbins suffered a stroke at home on Saturday and lapsed into a coma at New York Hosp
 Vladimir D. Dudintsev, a reporter and novelist whose dissection of mid-1950's Soviet life drew the wrath of Nikita S. Khrushchev and the muffled praise of dissidents, died last Thursday at his dacha near here. He was 79 and had been ill since suffering a stroke several years ago. As
 Buffalo Bob Smith, a singing piano player and chatty radio disk jockey who created Howdy Doody and then teamed up with the puppet on one of early television's most enduring children's shows, died of cancer yesterday at a hospital near his home in Flat Rock, N.C. Mr. Smith was 80. ''
 Noel Behn, a novelist, screenwriter, theatrical producer and celebrated raconteur who held court nightly at Elaine's, the Upper East Side watering hole, died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Behn died in his sleep from a heart att
