 Frederic Wakeman Jr., an eminent scholar of Chinese history who wrote richly detailed books spanning seven centuries -- from bloody dynastic struggles starting in the 1300's into the Communist era -- died Sept. 14 at his home in Lake Oswego, Ore. He was 68. The cause was cancer, sai
 Norman Lewis, a nationally recognized authority on English grammar and usage who preferred tuh-MAY-toh but in a pinch would countenance tuh-MAH-toh, died on Sept. 8 in Whittier, Calif. He was 93 and made his home in Whittier. Mr. Lewis died of natural causes, his daughter Debbie sai
 BALDWIN--Alfred Jay of Spring Hill, FL died Monday, September 25th, after a brief battle with cancer. Born in Litchfield, CT, he moved to Florida 19 years ago from Parsippany, NJ. He was an Army Air Corps veteran of World War II attached to the 463rd Bomb Group. Lieutenant Baldwin was a bom
 DIAZ--Frank, Born in Puerto Rico, Frank was sent to the U.S. as a young boy without knowing English. He obtained a dictionary & read whatever he could. He graduated from Xavier High School & Holy Cross, became a Stone Scholar at Columbia Law School, served in the Army, returned to graduate 
 FAGAN--Frank, Poet. Author of The Moonlit Door, The Derelict Genius of Martin M, Maginn, and Pick A Word. Poet, soldier, editor, political organizer, Frank Fagan died swiftly September 22nd. He was 68. Novelist Burt Cole wrote that his poetry transmuted ordinary, everyday agonies into thing
 FOSTER--Ronald M. Jr. The Calhoun School Board of Trustees and the entire community mourn the passing of one of Calhoun's heroes. Ron served as Honorary Trustee, President of the Board and President of the Parents Association. His leadership and personal generosity were key elements in Calh
 GARSIDE--Grenville, 76, at home in Norfolk, Conn.on September 22. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Lawrence Garside of Norfolk; his sister, Helen G. Randolph, Cambridge, Mass.; his daughter, Elizabeth R. Garside, Washington, D.C.; his sons, Jonathan H. Garside, St. Louis, Mo.and Alexande
 GREENE--Jerome D. II (Jerry). 83, of Guilford, CT, and Bondville, VT, died on September 29, 2006, after a valiant struggle with many illnesses. Jerry was the founder and President of MarketMath, Inc in 1965 in New York City, a highly respected statistical consulting firm. He and his firm re
 JOEL--Yale. Noted photographer and member of the original Life Magazine staff, died early Saturday morning at the age of 87, of cardiac arrest, in Manhattan where he lived. His some 60 years of images reflect his wit, originality and rapport with people --the same characteristics he brought
 LANIGAN--Thomas L. A leading editor in chemistry, biochemistry, and molecular biology died on Sunday, September 24, 2006 in Passaic, New Jersey. He was the founder of the Science, Technology and Medicine publisher The Humana Press, Inc. Born on August 23, 1938, in Oswego, New York, Mr. Lani
 ROSE--Irl W. II. Age 83, Sarasota, FL passed away peacefully on September 29th. Beloved husband of Susan Baar Rose. Devoted father of Carol Rose Munson and family friend Heleen, Debbie Rose Meinsen and Stephen Meinsen and Peggy Rose Turchioe and Robert Unger. Cherished Pop-Pop of Lauren and
 SETTEL -- Elmer H. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired records the passing of Elmer H. Settel. He was a member of the Board of Directors and Advisory Council for 49 years. Our deepest sympathy is expressed to his family. Nancy T. Jones, P
 SILVER--Martin J. On September 29th, 2006. Beloved husband of Joan, much loved and respected father to Andrew and Jan, Peter and Nancy, a very special and devoted ''Pop'' to Harry and Emily, loving brother of Hugh. He will always be remembered with love.       
 WANG--C.C. Cheng Ching Wang was born in Peking China October 17, 1918 the younger son of Wang Han Su and Wang Wen Shuen, a military general and later, War Minister under Generalissimo Chiang-kai-chek. He graduated from Yenching University with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemistry in 19
 WEST--Ormand J., Jr. (6/21/36-9/20/06) A long-time television director (30 years with WCBS-TV News in NYC), Orm ''faded to black'' on September 20, 2006. A graduate of Manchester, CT High School (''Best-Natured, Class of '54'') and the U. of Miami (FL) School of Communications (Iron Arrow m
 CHATZOPOULOS--Nikolaos. 64, of Roselle Park, NJ, died on September 19, 2006. Born in Constantinople (Istanbul), Turkey, Mr. Chatzopoulos immigrated to the United States in 1969, and worked as a chemist in the field of precious metal refining for 37 years. Active at St. Demetrios Greek Ortho
 GALLO--Christopher Columbus. Passed away September 23, 2006. He was the kindest, most generous, brilliantly creative person we have had the privilege to know. He will always be loved and admired not only by our family, but all his friends and colleagues in the world of interior design. From
 HALE--Nathan. A Memorial Service will be held to celebrate his life, Thursday October 5th at 5 P.M., The Harvard Club of New York City, 35 West 44 St. Donations may be made to The ''Hale Memorial Fund'' at The Damariscotta River Association, PO Box 333, Damariscotta, ME 04543.       
 FIER--Robert Daniel, age 79, passed away peacefully Sunday morning at his New Rochelle home surrounded by his family and caregivers. Beloved husband and best friend of Elaine Reyman Fier, Bob was born in Brooklyn, March 6, 1927. A veteran of the Navy in World War II, he graduated from MIT w
 KOKOT--Marian T. Died September 30, at 93, after a long and fruitful life. Beloved wife of 52 years of the late Rubin. Devoted and cherished mother of Kevin and his wife Lilia, and Eugene and his wife Barbara. Loving and proud grandmother of Amy and Matthew, and Oumayma and Maha. Service on
 LAXER--Abraham. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime, devoted member, and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 ROSE--Irl W. II. Age 83, Sarasota, FL passed away peacefully on September 29th. Beloved husband of Susan Baar Rose. Devoted father of Carol Rose Munson and family friend Heleen, Debbie Rose Meinsen and Stephen Meinsen and Peggy Rose Turchioe and Robert Unger. Cherished Pop-Pop of Lauren and
 STALOFF--Charles, on September 30th, at age 98. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice. Loving father of Hazel and Robert. Adored grandfather, brother, friend and colleague. He was an Eagle Scout and US Navy veteran. Principal of P.S. 7 and Junior High School 139 of the Bronx. Services on Tue
 Robert H. Knight, an influential Wall Street lawyer who played behind-the-scenes roles for the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations in sensitive political situations like the Bay of Pigs, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y., after a long battle with lung cancer and a sto
 Joseph F. Kauffman, an educator who helped start the Peace Corps and ran the basic training designed to turn its recruits into effective volunteers, then led the fight against war protesters at the University of Wisconsin, died on Sept. 29 in Madison, Wis. He was 84. The cause was c
 ECKER--Robert M. On September 30th, 2006, husband of Gertrude (nee Lerman), father of Andrew and Paula Ecker and William and Charlesanna Ecker. Grandfather of Joshua, David, Jacob and Michael. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services Tuesday 2:30 pm at Goldsteins Rosenberg's Ra
 HALE--Nathan. A Memorial Service will be held to celebrate his life, Thursday October 5th at 5 P.M., The Harvard Club of New York City, 35 West 44 St. Donations may be made to The ''Hale Memorial Fund'' at The Damariscotta River Association, PO Box 333, Damariscotta, ME 04543.       
 JOURNEY--Drexel. 80. Retired partner in Schiff Hardin LLP, former General Counsel of the Federal Power Commission and past President of the Federal Bar Association Democracy Development Institute, died August 22 in Washington, DC. Mr. Journey attended the Merchant Marine Academy during Worl
 LUKENS--Pjay Phelps passed away at home on October 1 following a private and courageous battle with cancer. Jay was the cherished husband of Susan for nearly 30 years and beloved father of Clinton, Ashley and Walker. Jay grew up in Minnesota and later moved to Florida where he was a Thomas 
 SILVAN--Matthew, We are devastated to announce the sudden passing of Matthew Silvan. Dr. Silvan, a Ph.D. in psychology and a gifted clinician, was a graduate of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, a psychoanalyst in private practice, and the director of Psychocutaneous Medicine at St. Lu
 MOORREES--Alexander. Died most unexpectedly on September 20, 2006. Loving son of Louise, brother of Oni and uncle to Alexandra. Deeply missed by his many friends. Funeral Service at Christ Church, Christchurch Street, Chelsea, on Friday, October 6th at 12 noon. No flowers please, but donati
 George Edward Steinhardt, who for 40 years, under the name George Edwards, was the host of the ''Bright and Early'' program on WQXR, the classical radio station owned by The New York Times Company, died on Aug. 21 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 87. His death was announced by hi
 Joel T. Broyhill, an 11-term Republican congressman from Virginia known in the 50's and 60's for his energetic opposition to integration, especially in the predominantly white middle-class suburbs he represented, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause wa
 LUKENS--Jay Phelps, passed away at home on October 1 following a private and courageous battle with cancer. Jay was the cherished husband of Susan for nearly 30 years and beloved father of Clinton, Ashley and Walker. Jay grew up in Minnesota and later moved to Florida where he was a Thomas 
 McGRANE--Robert. 77. Of Lower Manhattan, on September 28, 2006 after 8 years of nursing home care. Wake will be held Wednesday, October 4, at Guidetti Funeral Home, 33 Spring St from 24:30 and 6:30-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial at Most Precious Blood R.C.Church, 113 Baxter St on Thursday, O
 NONACK--Victor Z., of Huntington, NY, died suddenly September 17 at age 88. Born in Great Neck, he grew up in Waterbury, CT, where he attended local schools. He graduated from RPI in 1942 with a degree in mechanical engineering. After graduation, he worked for Sperry Gyroscope and then for 
 SACK--Robert M. Antique Dealer and Clock Expert, born to Israel and Ann Goodman Sack on May 23, 1927 in Roxbury, MA died Monday, October 2, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Lee, daughter Roslyn Wall and daughter and son-in-law, Gail and Michael Drinkard, and his grandchildren D
 SALTEN--David G. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of David G. Salten, consultant to the president. A generous and dedicated member of the Hofstra community, Dr. Salten was a longtime supporter of Hofstra University, including the annual Shakespeare festival and the Hof
 SILVAN--Matthew. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society & Institute mourn the untimely loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Matthew Silvan. His demise is a tragedy for his family and a great loss to his friends, his patients and to our Institute. As one of our younger colleagues,
 TAFT --Leo, DDS. October 2, 2006. Beloved husband of 43 years to Nina. Devoted father of Dr. Paul (Tricia) Taft, Mark (Susan) Taft, Mark (Annette) Horowitz, Joshua Horowitz, and the late Dr. Steven (Jean) Taft. Adored grandfather of 10 and great-grandfather of 10. His cherished nephew Rabbi
 DONOVAN--John G., 78, of Tappan, NY on October 4, 2006. He had a long career in the field of commercial insurance. He is survived by his wife, Jacqueline. Funeral Mass Saturday, 10:00 A.M., Our Lady of the Sacred Heart Church, Tappan. Calling hours Friday 2:00-4:00 and 7:00-9:00 P.M. at Mor
 HUANG--Yao Qi, MD. The NYU Department of Medicine extends its condolences to the family of our colleague and friend, Yao Qi Huang, MD, an active member of the faculty of the NYU School of Medicine at the time of his sudden and tragic passing. He will be missed by many. Martin J. Blaser, MD 
 JOY--James F. 69, Gifted Communicator, Lover of Life. Succumbed to melanoma and died peacefully in Vero Beach, FL on October 2, 2006. Loving husband of Michael for 42 years, cherished father to Whitney Cathcart, Merrill Slaugh and Ashley Wood and simply JJ to his five adoring grandchildren.
 NONACK--Victor Z., of Huntington, NY, died suddenly September 17 at age 88. Born in Great Neck, he grew up in Waterbury, CT, where he attended local schools. He graduated from RPI in 1942 with a degree in mechanical engineering. After graduation, he worked for Sperry Gyroscope and then for 
 REISINGER--Edward B., known to his friends and family as Ted, passed away September 29. A celebration of his life will be held at The Little Church Around the Corner at 1 East 29th Street on Friday, October 6, at 3 pm. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the American Liver Foundati
 SCHAFFER--Irving. The family and employees of Case Paper are deeply saddened by the passing of Irving Schaffer at age 96 on October 3; he was a co-founder and past President of our company. Along with his late partners Oscar Kosh and David Kosh he led us from our earliest beginnings in 1943
 LIBERMAN--Alexander. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members & staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Blake, mother and father Eleanor and Michael, sister Deborah, brothers Scott & R
 R. W. Apple Jr., who in more than 40 years as a correspondent and editor at The New York Times wrote from more than 100 countries about war and revolution, politics and government, food and drink, and the revenge of living well, died yesterday in Washington. He was 71. The cause was
 Gary C. Comer, who as founder of the mail-order apparel company Lands' End printed a glossy catalog in the 1960's that became a prototype of the magazinelike catalogs of today, died Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was cancer, a company spokeswoman, Michele Cas
 APPLE--R.W., Jr. I was so proud to call Johnny my cousin and I really adored being with him. His musings always made the ''The New York Times'' brighter and much more delicious reading. I never stopped learning from him and always ate better because of him. He taught me to research every me
 COLON--Jose M., M.D., on September 26, 2006. Loving son of Susana, dear brother of Rafael, Vivian and Susie, loving nephew of Nydia Pesquera. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Dr. Colon was a Doctor of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine. Among his credentials, he was a
 JOY--James F. 69, Gifted Communicator, Lover of Life. Succumbed to melanoma and died peacefully in Vero Beach, FL on October 2, 2006. Loving husband of Michael for 42 years, cherished father to Whitney Cathcart, Merrill Slaugh and Ashley Wood and simply JJ to his five adoring grandchildren.
 LANDBERG--Dr. George E., 75, psychiatrist with practices in Englewood, NJ and New York City, died suddenly Oct. 4, 2006. Devoted husband to Jane, beloved father of Samuael Topiary (aka Allison) and Brian, and beloved stepfather of Amy Lilienfeld and Brian Shebairo. His warmth and generosity
 MANHEIMER--Marvin died October 4th, 2006 after a long illness. We mourn the passing of an unusual and vibrant man, who gave so much to his family and acquantances throughout his life. He had a very long career in the financial business but was also a successful restaurant owner, and was an 
 MORENO--Dr. Gustavo J. III. 78, formerly of New York, NY, Miami and Dania Beach, FL died on October 3, 2006 in Vero Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Alice Seemann Moreno; his children Estela Moreno-Bosketti (Frank) of Chestnut Ridge, NY, Dr. Linda J. Merchant (Dr. Robert) 
 SCHAFFER--Irving. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member Irving Schaffer. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his family. Allen J. Ross, President SCHAFFER--Irving. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passin
 WAITZMAN--Simon V., 77. On October 2, 2006. Architect and designer, longtime Brooklyn Heights resident. Beloved father of Lisa (Jussi) Melartin & Michael Waitzman. Loving grandfather of Noelle, Cody, and Lilly Melartin. Survived by many devoted friends and relatives. We will love and miss h
 DANA-BASHIAN--Phillip. Age 72, on September 19, 2006, of cancer. Beloved husband of Mary Beth Halpin, father of John (Rebecca Dietzel) and Alexis. Brother of John DanaBashian, Joan Rappleyea, Pauline Dana-Bashian and Helen Moore. Son of the late John and Helen (Paddock) Dana-Bashian. He was
 Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, an internationally known infectious diseases expert and educator who was also one of the most powerful figures in American medicine for many years, died in Seattle on Sept. 29. He was 80. The cause was complications of strokes, said Dr. William Bremner, cha
 Buck O'Neil, a star first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues and a pioneering scout and coach in the major leagues who devoted the final decade of his life to chronicling the lost world of black baseball, died last night in Kansas City, Mo. He was 94. Bob Kendrick, marketing d
 Friedrich Karl Flick, an heir to vast wealth, a father's notoriety and a name that in postwar Germany stood for a sinister nexus of politics and big business, died Thursday at his home on Lake Wörther in the southern Austrian province of Carinthia. He was 79. The cause was cancer, 
 Gilbert F. White, a geographer whose philosophy of accommodating nature instead of trying to master it had profound effects on policy and environmental thought, died on Thursday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 94. His death was announced by the University of Colorado, where he 
 Dr. Mortimer Ostow, a psychiatrist and neuroscientist who studied the psychological sources of anti-Semitism and other expressions of religious and racial fanaticism, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Riverdale, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Ostow,
 APPLE--R.W., Jr. I was so proud to call Johnny my cousin and I really adored being with him. His musings always made the ''The New York Times'' brighter and much more delicious reading. I never stopped learning from him and always ate better because of him. He taught me to research every me
 GILLMAN--Bernard B. On October 5, 2006 in Palm Beach. Predeceased by his devoted wife Seena. Bernie will be sorely missed by his adoring children Bonnie and Ira, Wendy and Don and Dean and Robyn, beloved grandchildren Robin (Larry), Richie (Jill), Jaime (Patrick) and Jodi, as well as his fi
 GOLDEN--Morton M., M.D., 92. Psychoanalytic practice in Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his wife Ann Howard Golden, his son and daughter-in-law Drs. William & Kimberly Golden, and two granddaughters, Emily and Abbie. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Margaret (Peg) Polusky Golden. Mort 
 WAGNER--Curtis, Architect. November 18, 1963. Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, NY. New York State Matthew Del Guadio Award, Total Design. Progressive Architecture Citations: Schibsted Gruppen Headquarters, Oslo Norway. Canadian Royal Trust, Toronto Ontario, Canada. Columbia University, Master's a
 MILLER--Harold E. October 7, 1916-August 11, 2001. Today on his 90th birthday, we honor his memory, recalling his integrity, his devotion to family, and his remarkable sense of humor, which sustains us even now, as we celebrate a life well lived. Florence D. Miller John G. Miller       
 Peter M. Grosz, an engineer and authority on German aircraft from World War I who was also the son of the German Expressionist painter George Grosz, died on Sept. 29. He was 80 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Lilian, said. In recent years M
 Buck O'Neil, a star first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues and a pioneering scout and coach in the major leagues who devoted the final decade of his life to chronicling the lost world of black baseball, died Friday night in Kansas City, Mo. He was 94. Bob Kendrick, marketing
 Dr. Mortimer Ostow, a psychiatrist and neuroscientist who studied the psychological sources of anti-Semitism and other expressions of religious and racial fanaticism, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Riverdale, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Ostow,
 ABELMAN--Arthur F. The owners and employees of Brown Harris Stevens acknowledge with deep sadness the passing of Arthur F. Abelman, who died on September 23, 2006. Arthur served as the esteemed President of ''Millan House'' for 30 years. Our deepest condolence to his family and friends.    
 APPLE--R.W., Jr. I was so proud to call Johnny my cousin and I really adored being with him. His musings always made the ''The New York Times'' brighter and much more delicious reading. I never stopped learning from him and always ate better because of him. He taught me to research every me
 GOLDEN--Morton M., M.D., 92. Psychoanalytic practice in Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his wife Ann Howard Golden, his son and daughter-in-law Drs. William & Kimberly Golden, and two granddaughters, Emily and Abbie. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Margaret (Peg) Polusky Golden. Mort 
 HOLLOWAY--Jerome Knight, Jr. Age 83. Retired U.S. Foreign Service Officer and Naval Warfare College professor, died October 2, 2006 at Newport, RI. Survived by daughter, Karen Margaret Holloway of Providence, RI; two grandchildren; and brother, John E. Holloway of Washington, DC. Prede ceas
 LAVIN--Gerald, 79, died on October 2, of complications following surgery. Mr. Lavin lived in Great Neck, NY and Annapolis, MD. Born June 25, 1927, he graduated from Queens College, and taught in NYC and Indonesia. He retired from the United Nations, where he specialized in communications. H
 LEVIN--Donald, 70, died October 3rd in Woodland Hills, CA of pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his loving wife, Donna, children, Allison and Richard Brightman and Philip Levin, and grandchildren, Michael, Erica and Mia Brightman. His formidable presence will be sorely missed. To honor hi
 MANHEIMER--Marvin died October 4th, 2006 after a long illness. We mourn the passing of an unusual and vibrant man, who gave so much to his family and acquaintances throughout his life. He had a very long career in the financial business but was also a successful restaurant owner, and was an
 MARCUS--David. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of David Marcus of Chicago, a decades long supporter with vision and dedication to the ATS, the Technion and Israel. Mr. Marcus was a stalwart of our Chicago Chapter, where he served on the Bo
 McBRIDE--Donald, Jr. of Towson, NJ; Englewood, NJ; and Norfolk, CT; died peacefully October 4, 2006. Devoted husband of the late Nancy (Lowe) McBride, Donald is survived by his loving daughters, Susan Murphy of Baltimore; Elizabeth Nielsen of Annapolis; and Mary Vaughn McBride of Wendell, M
 SPRUCH--Larry. The NYU Department of Physics announces with sadness the passing of its esteemed colleague, a faculty member for more than 50 years. Here he established a career remarkable for its steady productivity at the highest level, with research contributions covering a wide range of 
 TIRSCHWELL--Joel. Passed away suddenly on October 6, 2006, in New York City. Husband of Susan, father of Peter, Robert (Annie), and Matthew (Stephanie), grandfather of Madeline, Eleanor and Theodore, brother of Perry, stepfather of Cullen Malley. Born February 8, 1938, in Brooklyn, he gradu
 TREISMAN--Jerome E. On October 5, 2006. Devoted husband of Ling Zhu, beloved stepfather of Joanne, beloved brother of Norman and loving uncle of Joel and Jeffrey. He was born in Concord, NH, and lived in New York for more than 25 years. He earned his undergraduate and law degrees from Bosto
 WAITZMAN--Simon V., 77. On October 2, 2006. Architect and designer, longtime Brooklyn Heights resident. Beloved father of Lisa (Jussi) Melartin & Michael Waitzman. Loving grandfather of Noelle, Cody, and Lilly Melartin. Survived by many devoted friends and relatives. We will love and miss h
 WALLERSTEIN--David Daniel, on October 6. Beloved son of the late Adolph and Victoria. Loving husband to Betty. Devoted dad to Andrew and Susan. We mourn the loss of our caring, kind and cheerful David, a man of honor, integrity and quiet strength. A widely admired attorney, he will also be 
 WINTER--Clark Burritt, retired Senior Corporate Executive and Financial Visionary of American Express Company, died on September 30, 2006. He was ninety-one years old and lived in NYC and Cashiers, NC. During World War II he served with Army Air Corps 20th Air Force out of Guam and received
 Danial Shapiro, a modern-dance choreographer known for his collaborations with his wife, Joanie Smith, died on Tuesday in Atlantic City. He was 48 and lived in Minneapolis. The cause was prostate cancer, said his publicist, Laura Colby. ''Mr. Shapiro is tall, an affectionate
 David G. Salten, an innovative and influential educator who devised a desegregation plan for the New Rochelle, N.Y., school system and, as an expert witness in 1958, urged the immediate opening of the newly integrated schools in Little Rock, Ark., died on Oct. 1 at his home in Port Washingt
 MARTIN--David Asher, 78, of New York City, Fire Island and Delray Beach Florida, passed away on October 5th after his battle with lung and brain cancer. His beloved, Nancy Littlefield, was at his side. He was Publisher of Manhattan Pennysaver, QPTV Monthly TV Guide, wrote, produced and dire
 MITCHELL--Rev. Robert A., S.J. on October 5. A member of the Society of Jesus for 63 years, an ordained priest for 50 years. Among his distinguished positions, Father was the Superior of the America House Jesuit Community, New York City, Former Provincial Supervisor, New York Province, Soci
 ROBINSON--Bernard P., M.D. Passed away peacefully at his home on October 6, 2006. A faculty member of Mt. Sinai Medical Center for 40 years and a medical officer for the NYFD until his retirement. Beloved husband of the late Gloria. Loving mother of Lawrence and Dr. Andrew Robinson. Cherish
 STEWART--Bruce J. 50, of White Plains, NY, on October 6, 2006. Beloved son of James M. Stewart of Manhattan and the late Evelyn A. Stewart, and loving brother of Suzanne Stewart of Hartsdale and William Stewart of Hollywood, FL. Born in New York City on July 31, 1956, graduated from New Roc
 TANAKA--Vic. Devoted husband and father, truest friend, artist and good soul, left us on Thursday, October 5, 2006. Husband of Fumi Tanaka, and father of Cathy, John and Tom, he was also the proud grandfather of Gillian and Shelby. A native of California, he was a graduate of Art Center, an
 TIRSCHWELL--Joel. Passed away suddenly on October 6, 2006, in New York City. Husband of Susan, father of Peter, Robert (Annie), and Matthew (Stephanie), grandfather of Madeline, Eleanor and Theodore, brother of Perry, stepfather of Cullen Malley. Born February 8, 1938, in Brooklyn, he gradu
 TREISMAN--Jerome E. On October 5, 2006. Devoted husband of Ling Zhu, beloved stepfather of Joanne, beloved brother of Norman and loving uncle of Joel and Jeffrey. He was born in Concord, NH, and lived in New York for more than 25 years. He earned his undergraduate and law degrees from Bosto
 WAGNER--Hilde (Weinberg), formerly of Rego Park, NY, on October 7, 2006. Wife of the late Lothar Wagner. Mother of Ralph Wagner and his wife Audrey of Wellesley, MA. Grandmother and greatgrandmother. Graveside services in the Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY, on Monday, October 9th, at 1
 WALLERSTEIN--David Daniel, on October 6. Beloved son of the late Adolph and Victoria. Loving husband to Betty. Devoted dad to Andrew and Susan. We mourn the loss of our caring, kind and cheerful David, a man of honor, integrity and quiet strength. A widely admired attorney, he will also be 
 Kanshi Ram, who as the founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party in India achieved some success in mobilizing the voting power of the nation's Dalits, or untouchables, died on Monday in New Delhi. He was 72. The death was confirmed by Eugene Correa, a spokesman for the Consulate General of
 CASEY--Francis G. Jr., MD. Of Maplewood, NJ, formerly of North Plainfield, NJ, native son of Brooklyn, died on October 7, 2006, age 93, peacefully at his home surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of the late Catherine Elizabeth Casey. Son of the late Francis G. and Lily Pyne Casey. Fat
 DROHAN--Gerard of Scarsdale, NY passed away suddenly on October 7, 2006. He was born on February 10, 1932 in Yonkers, NY to John Patrick and Frances Treacy Drohan. Gerard was a veteran of the Korean War and was a member of the NYC Plumbers Local No. 1 for over 50 years. He was a graduate of
 GALLAGHER--Patrick, on September 29, 2006 at the age of 62. Trinity School deeply mourns the loss of our acclaimed and beloved science teacher, who served the school from 1987 until his death. Prior to Trinity, he taught at Brooklyn Friends School. Pat is survived by Michael Baker, his part
 GREEN--Edward of London, Bal Harbour & NYC. Died suddenly, October 5. In mind, heart & spirit--he was platinum. Charm the angels, dearest Eddy. On Earth you will be so greatly missed. BBF       
 KAHN--Elliot P. Age 55, on October 8, 2006 of Manhattan. Beloved son of Albert and the late Sylvia. Dear brother of Kenneth M. Kahn. Adored uncle of Lauren, Matthew and Stacey Kahn. Much loved brother-in-law of Frances. Mr. Kahn was a graduate of SUNY Binghamton and worked as a computer pro
 MITCHELL--Rev. Robert A., S.J. on October 5. A member of the Society of Jesus for 63 years, an ordained priest for 50 years. Among his distinguished positions, Father was the Superior of the America House Jesuit Community, New York City, Former Provincial Supervisor, New York Province, Soci
 RECCHIA--Domenic F. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of the Sephardic Community Federation extend their deepest condolences to his wife Rosemarie, his daughters Diane Perrigo, Patricia Nicoletta & Judith Hann and to his son Councilman Domenic M. Recchia, Jr. May his memory be an in
 RENTSCHLER--George Adam Jr. Mr. Rentschler, the eldest child of George A. Rentschler, Sr. and Rita Mitchell Rentschler, was born in New York City on December 2, 1937. Mr. Rentschler's father was Chairman of the Board, Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation, a Fortune 500 company in the 1950's an
 ROBINSON--Bernard P. ,M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to the entire family.       
 SALTEN--David G. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of David G. Salten, an esteemed leader of the Jewish community whose service & commitment as executive director of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies from 1965-1969 strengthened
 SERBY--David. The Officers, Governors and members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar David Serby. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., on Tuesday, October 10 at 9
 TURNER--Paul Stephan Age 72, died on the morning of October 7th, at UCLA Medical Center after six years of a courageous, and always hopeful, struggle with mantel cell lymphoma. Those who loved him, especially Linda, his wife of 43 years, their daughter Rebecca and her husband Scott Anthony,
 Timo Sarpaneva, a Finnish glassmaker whose sleek and adventuresome creations found their way into art museums, stylish dining rooms and textbooks on design, died on Oct. 2 in Helsinki, Finland. He was 79. His death was reported by STT, the Finnish news agency, which did not give a c
 CASEY--Francis G. Jr., MD. Of Maplewood, NJ, formerly of North Plainfield, NJ, native son of Brooklyn, died on October 7, 2006, age 93, peacefully at his home surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of the late Catherine Elizabeth Casey. Son of the late Francis G. and Lily Pyne Casey. Fat
 COHEN--Lester J. Passed away on Monday, October 9, 2006. Loving son of Samuel and Gladys Cohen, brother of Sidney Cohen, Marvin S. Cohen, sister of Dorothy Cohen and Dr. Leona Laskin. May his memory be an inspiration to all who knew him. Graveside services at Bethel Cemetery,Westwood, N.J.,
 DROHAN--Gerard of Scarsdale, NY passed away suddenly on October 7, 2006. He was born on February 10, 1932 in Yonkers, NY to John Patrick and Frances Treacy Drohan. Gerard was a veteran of the Korean War and was a member of the NYC Plumbers Local No. 1 for over 50 years. He was a graduate of
 JAMES--Theodore Jr., died on October 7th, 2006 at a nursing home in Greenport, Long Island, near his house in Peconic where he had lived for many years with his friend and colleague, Harry Haralambou. Death resulted from a severe stroke he suffered in 2002. A 1957 graduate of Princeton Univ
 KNIGHT--Robert H. Friday October 20, 10AM at St. James' Church, 865 Madison Ave (at 71st St), NY. At the family's request, contributions may be made in his memory to the University of Virginia Law School Foundation, 580 Massie Road, Charlotteville, VA 22903-1789       
 McBRIDE--Donald, Jr. of Towson, MD; Englewood, NJ; and Norfolk, CT; died peacefully October 4, 2006. He was the devoted husband of the late Nancy (Lowe) McBride and father of four children.       
 MITCHELL--Rev. Robert A., S.J. on October 5. A member of the Society of Jesus for 63 years, an ordained priest for 50 years. Among his distinguished positions, Father was the Superior of the America House Jesuit Community, New York City, Former Provincial Supervisor, New York Province, Soci
 RENTSCHLER--George Adam Jr. Mr. Rentschler, the eldest child of George A. Rentschler, Sr. and Rita Mitchell Rentschler, was born in New York City on December 2, 1937. Mr. Rentschler's father was Chairman of the Board, Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation, a Fortune 500 company in the 1950's an
 WILSON--John F., 84, of NYC died of lung cancer on October 8, 2006. He was a graduate of Horace Mann School and Brown University, and was a United States Navy Officer in the Pacific during World War II. Following the war, he was in the Insurance business and was a member of The Million Doll
 RICHENBURG--Robert. July 14, 1917 -October 10, 2006. At the age of 89, Robert Richenburg passed away peacefully in his East Hampton, NY home. During the 50's and 60's he was a member of the group of New York artists pioneering the abstract expressionist movement. Since then he continued to 
 Raymond J. Noorda, a co-founder of Novell Inc., a software company that helped pioneer computer networking, died Monday at his home in Orem, Utah. He was 82. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which he had for many years, his family said in a statement. Mr. 
 William Whelan III, a director of the National Park Service in the Carter administration who oversaw the doubling of the park system's size with the creation of 10 parks in Alaska, died on Sept. 28 in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Roseville, Calif. The cause was a heart a
 Morris Tarshis, a gruff, cigar-chomping official who exercised behind-the-scenes power in New York City for a generation by settling labor strikes and, later, by determining who got city franchises, died on Monday in Glen Cove, on Long Island. He was 87. His daughter Roberta Tarshis
 BLYAKHER--Sam 33, and Rebecca, 32, of New York City. J. Michael and Pamela Cline extend our heartfelt condolences to the families of Sam and Rebecca Blyakher. Blessed with a love for life and love for each other and their daughter, their presence in so many lives will be greatly missed. We 
 BRUSSEL--Harrison. Beloved husband of Bernice for 65 years. Loved and loving father of Anne Brooks and the late John F. Brussel. Dear uncle of Betty Shamas and Janey Beam. Service Friday, 11:30AM at the Chapel-in-theWoods, Cong. Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave, White Plains. Contributions in his
 FALKOWITZ--Aaron, 91, Sunny Isles Beach, Florida, passed away September 26. Aaron was a loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle, and friend. Survived by Anita, his wife, children Michael and Madeline and her husband Paul Bunch, and his grandchildren Adam, Oren and Max Falkowitz. Donation
 FARBER--Dr. Saul. The physicians of Murray Hill Medical Group extend their heartfelt sympathies to the family of Dr. Saul Farber on their loss of a loving husband, father and grandfather. Dr. Farber was an icon in academic and clinical medicine for over half a century and he was a mentor an
 GLADSTONE--Douglas E. 58, Evironmental Scientist and Entrepreneur died of liver cancer October 10th in Gaithersburg, MD. Helped start Environmental Strategies Corporation in 1986, an environmental consulting firm. He had a BA in Biology from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in Ecology and En
 HACKETT--Kieran J. ''Jerry'' (LCDR, USN RET.) of Jersey City on October 10, 2006 of pancreatic cancer. Husband of Ruth (nee Horowitz) Hackett. Father of Kieran Jason and his wife Mandy Hackett. Amanda Hope Hackett. Son of Lucille (nee Bardorf) Nichols. Brother of Blake, Margaret Newhall, De
 LAZERE--Arthur, S. On September 30, 2006 Arthur died peacefully and with dignity after succumbing to a long illness in San Francisco, CA. He is survived by his sister Susan (Harold) Reichwald, his brother Andrew (Vicki) Lazere and three nephews. Born and reared in New York, Arthur graduated
 LOWRANCE--George G. He was a greatly loved husband, father, step-father and friend. Mr. Lowrance was born in Victoria, Texas on June 24, 1944. He received his law degree from the University of Texas and was licensed to practice before the U.S. Court of Appeals, U.S. Tax Court and the Unifor
 FROWENFELD--Charles E., 83, died October 9, 2006 in Boca Raton, Florida. Charles was born in Nurnberg, Germany, the son of Rudolph and Margaret Frowenfeld. He immigrated to New York City in 1939 where he had a distinguished career in the hotel industry. Charles is survived by his wife of 31
 RENTSCHLER--George A. Squadron A mourns the passing of our cherished VicePresident, Colonel George A. Rentschler and extends our sympathy to his family and friends.       
 CAREY--Edward M., Oct 12,1916. Today on his 90th Birthday we honor his memory recalling his remarkable life, his love of his family, specially his brothers. We think of him and Grandma always.       
 Dr. Saul J. Farber, a dean of New York University's medical school who led prestigious medical organizations, did groundbreaking research on kidneys and won many professional honors but was happiest making rounds with generations of interns and residents, died yesterday at New York Universi
 Howard Brett Kerzner, the chief executive of Kerzner International Holdings, a global developer and operator of casinos and luxury resorts, died Wednesday off the coast of the Dominican Republic. He was 42, and lived in New York and on Paradise Island in the Bahamas. Mr. Kerzner, kn
 BAUER--Robert F. , Esq. , 81, retired insurance attorney, died of heart failure at NY Hospital on October 11th. Born in Manhattan, he was a graduate of Washington Irving High School, Adelphi College and Brooklyn Law School. A WWII Army veteran, Mr. Bauer spent most of his working life honin
 FARBER--Saul J., M.D..More than a brother, more like a father. We are very proud of him, but more than anything, we will love him always. Rochelle and Edward Berkowitz and Family $(6$)FARBER--Saul J. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students of New York University and its S
 GLADSTONE--Douglas E. 58, Evironmental Scientist and Entrepreneur died of liver cancer October 10th in Gaithersburg, MD. Helped start Environmental Strategies Corporation in 1986, an environmental consulting firm. He had a BA in Biology from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in Ecology and En
 HACKETT--Kieran J. ''Jerry'' (LCDR, USN RET.) of Jersey City on October 10, 2006 of pancreatic cancer. Husband of Ruth (nee Horowitz) Hackett. Father of Kieran Jason and his wife Mandy Hackett. Amanda Hope Hackett. Son of Lucille (nee Bardorf) Nichols. Brother of Blake, Margaret Newhall, De
 HAIM--Paul, 85, died in Biarritz, France Tuesday October 10th. He is survived by his wife Jeannette, daughter Dominique Haim Chanin, sister Rosette Menteche and three loving grandchildren. My dearest friend for 45 years, a trusted and devoted colleague to many in the art world. We will miss
 KELLY--Reverend Monsignor Charles S. of Chappaqua on October 11, 2006. He was the loving son of the late Malachy and Mary. Beloved brother of John and his wife Judy, a niece Mary and a nephew John. Monsignor Kelly was ordained a priest May 31, 1969. Monsignor Kelly served as Parochial Vicar
 KERZNER--Howard ''Butch.'' Starmark International extends sympathy to Kerzner International on its loss. Peggy Nordeen, President $(6$)KERZNER--Howard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the untimely passing of Howard Kerzner, an active l
 MEYER - Sheldon. Oxford University Press mourns the loss of its friend and legendary editor, Sheldon Meyer, who for more than half a century made a distinctive contribution to the worlds of scholarship and serious nonfiction publishing. Sheldon's devotion to ideas, his commitment to his aut
 STEIN--Howard M., died on October 10, of lung cancer, just short of his 91st birthday. A month before, he had been actively gardening and regularly driving 120 miles to the country. Son of Maurice Stein and Esther Zechnowitz Stein, Howard grew up in Brooklyn and attended Boys' High School. 
 GEGENHEIMER--Harold. 95, of Mystic and Stonington, CT, died at his home in Mystic, Wednesday evening, October 4, 2006. A memorial service will be held at the Mystic Congregational Church on Saturday, November 11 at 2:00 pm. Further obituary information will appear in a future edition of thi
 Peter H. Rossi, a prominent sociologist best known for documenting the changing face of American homelessness in the 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 84. Professor Rossi died of natural causes, his family said. At his death, Professor Rossi was S
 Robert Richenburg, an Abstract Expressionist painter whose early works were shown alongside those of Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, died on Tuesday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 89. His death was announced by David Findlay Jr. Fine Art of Manhattan, a gallery that
 Norman Salsitz, whose harrowing tale of surviving the Holocaust by posing as a Christian took a particularly bizarre turn when he killed Polish partisans who were about to murder a group of Jews, died Wednesday in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Springfield, N.J. The cause was pneumo
 FARBER--Saul J., M.D. .More than a brother, more like a father. We are very proud of him, but more than anything, we will love him always. Rochelle and Edward Berkowitz and Family $(6$)FARBER--Saul J., MD. It is with deep sorrow that I learned of the passing of Saul Farber. I well r
 HAYES--Joseph M. Jr. Born September 4, 1949, died October 12, 2006. Beloved son of the late Joseph M. Hayes Sr. and Mrs. Pauline Hayes, of Kent, CT. Mr. Hayes resided in NYC for the last 29 years and worked for the Metropolitan Opera House as Marketing Director. He had a lifelong interest i
 KERZNER--Howard ''Butch''. My heart is saddened by this sudden tragic loss. My deepest sympathies go out to his father Sol, his wife Vanessa, his family and his colleagues at Kerzner International. Jeffrey Bank, Chief Operating Officer Alicart Restaurant Group $(6$)KERZNER--Howard '
 Gerry E. Studds, the first openly gay member of Congress and a demanding advocate for New England fishermen and for gay rights, died early Saturday at Boston University Medical Center, his husband said. The cause was a vascular illness that led Mr. Studds to collapse while walking h
 DORFMAN--Irvin S. 82, died in Raleigh, NC on October 8. An internationally ranked tennis player and graduate of Yale, he served in the U.S. Navy in WWII and was a noted Broadway press agent. He is survived by his beloved wife Eileen, daughter Andrea, step-daughters Robin and Jody, sister Ma
 DROHAN--Gerard. The Officers, Governors, members and staff of the General Society of Mechanics & Tradesmen of NYC extend our deepest condolences to the family of our beloved Past President and Brother, Gerard Drohan, Sr. Brother Drohan served with distinction as President of the GSMT in 198
 DUGGAN--Terry. 52, of NYC, died peacefully October 8, 2006 of kidney cancer. Nobody fought harder. He is survived by his lifetime partner of 28 years Michael Rosen, his brother Michael Duggan of Sarasota, FL, and his sister Therese Steuart of Port Charlotte, FL. His death will leave a deep 
 FARBER--Dr. Saul. Sadly, I've answered your last questions. I have no more answers. GEMAR TOV Marvin Weitz $(6$)FARBER--Saul, Dr. The Department of Medicine of Lenox Hill Hospital extends its sincere condolences to the family of Dr. Saul Farber and to the NYU School of Medicine with
 HAIM--Paul, 85, died in Biarritz, France Tuesday October 10th. He is survived by his wife Jeannette, daughter Dominique Haim Chanin, sister Rosette Menteche and three loving grandchildren. My dearest friend for 45 years, a trusted and devoted colleague to many in the art world. We will miss
 HAYES--Joseph M. Jr. Born September 4, 1949, died October 12, 2006. Beloved son of the late Joseph M. Hayes Sr. and Mrs. Pauline Hayes, of Kent, CT. Mr. Hayes resided in NYC for the last 29 years and worked for the Metropolitan Opera House as Marketing Director. He had a lifelong interest i
 IMPERATO--Joseph Edward, M.D. Dr. Imperato loved life and knew how to embrace all the aesthetic and intellectual offerings of it. He was a physician and plastic surgeon and so much more;Conf longshoreman, merchant marine, jazz musician, importer of Italian paintings, world traveler, lover o
 KENNEDY--Will. Died at home on October 12. Survivors: his wife Frances, children, Katharine, Billy, Jane and Emily, and 10 grandchildren. Will was professor at Union Theological Seminary from 1979-1994, formerly on staff at the World Council of Churches and recently Mayor of Black Mountain,
 KERZNER--Howard ''Butch''. My heart is saddened by this sudden tragic loss. My deepest sympathies go out to his father Sol, his wife Vanessa, his family and his colleagues at Kerzner International. Jeffrey Bank, Chief Operating Officer Alicart Restaurant Group $(6$)KERZNER--Howard '
 KIRSCH--Gustave, 84, Alexandria, VA; formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Survived by wife, Mildred Sire Kirsch; son, Jeff (Joan Fox); sister, Florence K. Shore; and grandchildren, Katie and Megan Fox-Kirsch. He graduated from St. Peter's College, in Jersey City.       
 LOWENSTEIN--Larry, 86, October 3, 2006 in Atlanta, GA. Beloved husband of Joyce, father of Barbara DuBois and Caryl Komornik; stepfather of Penny Siskin and Patsy Arnow; grandfather of 8, greatgrandfather of 4. A native New Yorker, he had a distinguished career with CBS-TV, advertising, the
 MILLER--Gordon Edmunds. 54, of Santa Fe died Tuesday, October 10th of heart failure. He was born in San Francisco to the late Edmona Lyman and the late Paul A. Miller. In 1956, following a divorce of his parents, he accompanied his mother and brothers to New York. In 1957, his mother marrie
 MORIN--Gene, 72. Died October 9, 2006. Award winning ad agency art director for major fashion and cosmetics houses, with a second, parallel career in american antiques. Gene was also a freelance design consultant. An acclaimed photo stylist for Family Circle and other magazines, catalog ret
 ROSENBERG--Sidney. Died on September 26, age 88 at home in Manhattan after a distinguished career in education. He began placing high on the Civil Service examination as an English Teacher in training before World War II. He served in New Guinea and then in the U. S. Armed Forces Institute 
 SERBY--David passed on October 8, 2006 residing in Manhattan. He was a major leader in his field of ready-towear women's clothing. Beloved by his wife, Horty, daughter, Patricia and granddaughter, Jennifer. He was an elegant, charitable, compassionate, loving man. An avid yachtsman, who was
 STEIN--Howard M., died on October 10, of lung cancer, just short of his 91st birthday. A month before, he had been actively gardening and regularly driving 120 miles to the country. Son of Maurice Stein and Esther Zechnowitz Stein, Howard grew up in Brooklyn and attended Boys' High School. 
 STRIKA--Dr. Zivko Tony, 74, beloved father of Susanna and Nina. Donations in his honor to Tibet Aid, 34 Tinker Rd, Woodstock, NY 12498. 877TIBETAI D for TCV Hospital.       
 GRIFFIN--Kenneth G. July 23, 1940-October 21,2004. A prominent business attorney and commercial litigator in Los Angeles for more than 35 years who developed a reputation as an expert on Japan and the Orient. He was 64. Griffin worked primarily for international clients, mostly in Japan. He
 Freddy Fender, a sweet-and-light-voiced popular singer who had hit records in both English and Spanish, shifting from country to pop to Tex-Mex music, died on Saturday night at his home in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 69. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. I
 BATTAGLIA--Joseph The Shar family and the Lowy Staff mourn the loss of our dear friend and mentor Joe Battaglia. He will always be remembered as the gentle soul and talented artist he was, whether playing his piano, tinkering with a fiddle, painting a still life or putting his master touch 
 BLOCH--Robert W. Age 78. Passed away on October 14, 2006, from liposarcoma. For 51 years, beloved and irreplaceable husband of Deborah G. Bloch, loving father of Alexandra and father-in-law of Lawrence Jeydel, adored grandfather of Daniel Bloch Jeydel and dear brother-in-law of the late Mar
 BOLENDER--Todd Was an important member of the New York City Ballet family from the very beginning. He danced with the Companys precursors, Ballet Caravan and Ballet Society, before becoming an original member of New York City Ballet when it founded in 1948, and he remained with the Company 
 DEUTSCH--Jamie. Our heartfelt sympathy on the tragic loss of Jamie, a very special young lady. Anita, Arthur and family $(6$)DEUTSCH--Sidney. Loving husband of departed Sonia, loving father to Robert, Eileen and Robin, loving grandfather to Jessica, Zack and Jake, died Friday, Octob
 DUGGAN--Terry. 52, of NYC, died peacefully October 8, 2006 of kidney cancer. Nobody fought harder. He is survived by his lifetime partner of 28 years Michael Rosen, his brother Michael Duggan of Sarasota, FL, and his sister Therese Steuart of Port Charlotte, FL. His death will leave a deep 
 FARBER--Saul J., M.D. The Bellevue family mourns the loss of Dr. Saul Farber. His dedication to our historic instutition was legendary. He was an architect in the making of a doctor who understood that education is the hallmark of clinical excellence. Generations of physicians gained from h
 GOLDRING--Allen A. Founding Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Goldring International Group of Woodbury, New York, and philanthropist, died suddenly on Sunday, October 15 at age 83. Born in Brooklyn on May 2, 1923, Allen Goldring graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn
 KENNEDY--Will. Died at home on October 12. Survivors: his wife Frances, children, Katharine, Billy, Jane and Emily, and 10 grandchildren. Will was professor at Union Theological Seminary from 1979-1994, formerly on staff at the World Council of Churches and recently Mayor of Black Mountain,
 KERZNER--Howard ''Butch''. My heart is saddened by this sudden tragic loss. My deepest sympathies go out to his father Sol, his wife Vanessa, his family and his colleagues at Kerzner International. Jeffrey Bank, Chief Operating Officer Alicart Restaurant Group $(6$)KERZNER--Howard '
 KORNBLEE--Leonard V, MD. of Weston CT, died October 10th, 2006, age 89. Devoted husband of the late Jill Kornblee, beloved father of John C, of Weston CT, Elisabeth A, of Cambridge MA, and Mary K Gabriel of Brookline MA, father-in-law of Carolyn, grandfather of Joanna Jeskoba, Rachael Gabri
 THEILHEIMER--Myron, 86, died on October 15th. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend, and a lifelong fan of good jazz and great chocolate ice cream. He will be missed always.       
 Todd Bolender, an internationally known dancer and choreographer who left a distinctive imprint on the New York City Ballet and its forerunner companies before leading the Kansas City Ballet and troupes abroad, died on Thursday in Kansas City, Kan. He was 92 and lived in Kansas City, Mo.   
 Carl A. Vergari, who modernized and strengthened law enforcement efforts as district attorney of Westchester County, died on Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84. His death was confirmed by Jim Celestino, an employee at the McGrath & Son funeral home in Bronxville. Mr. 
 BLOCH--Robert W. Age 78. Passed away on October 14, 2006, from liposarcoma. For 51 years, beloved and irreplaceable husband of Deborah G. Bloch, loving father of Alexandra and father-in-law of Lawrence Jeydel, adored grandfather of Daniel Bloch Jeydel and dear brother-in-law of the late Mar
 DOPPELT--Stanley. On October 16, after a long illness, beloved husband of Ellie, devoted father of Earl and Diane, Stuart and Roni, Jonathan and Carolyn, and Alison and Neil; loving grandfather of Brad, Kyle and Meredith, Brian and Stephanie, Jason, David and Jennifer, Adam, Daniel and Broo
 DOYLE--James P., of Asheville, NC formerly of Mountain Lakes, died October 11, 2006. Alumnus of Cooper Union and Stevens. Retired Vice President/Board of Directors of Gibbs & Cox. Survived by his wife Peggy, daughter, son, and grandson. For memorialregister go to obituary archives at grocef
 FARBER--Saul. The Department of Surgery and Dr. H. Leon Pachter at NYU School of Medicine extend our deepest condolences to the family of Dr. Saul Farber. Dr. Farber was truly a great physician, teacher, mentor and a strong leader who was inspirational to countless doctors while serving as 
 GOLDRING--Allen A. Founding Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Goldring International Group of Woodbury, New York, and philanthropist, died suddenly on Sunday, October 15 at age 83. Born in Brooklyn on May 2, 1923, Allen Goldring graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn
 HEINZEN--Karl Edward, greatly beloved son and brother to Linda, Jerry, and Eva, and grandson to Margaret Arvay. Greatly beloved nephew, cousin, grandnephew and friend died suddenly October 8th, 2006. Services to celebrate his remarkable life will be held Saturday, October 21st, 12:00 noon, 
 KOLBE--K. William. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of 13/WNET and WLIW New York, are saddened by the passing of K. William Kolbe. A director of the Friends of Thirteen Inc. for 11 years, Bill was second vice chairman and chairman
 LAWRENCE--John, died at his home in New York City on October 15th. Beloved father of Amanda and Christopher and grandfather to Julianna and William. He will be sadly missed.       
 MILLER--Gordon Edmunds. 54, of Santa Fe died Tuesday, October 10th of heart failure. He was born in San Francisco to the late Edmona Lyman and the late Paul A. Miller. In 1956, following a divorce of his parents, he accompanied his mother and brothers to New York. In 1957, his mother marrie
 MURPHY--Vincent B., Jr., a former Executive Managing Partner with Salomon Brothers and a senior executive with Merrill Lynch, died at his home in Far Hills, N.J. from complications with Alzheimer's. He was 78. In 1964, he joined Salomon Brothers, and became a General Partner at the young ag
 NATHAN -- Richard (Dick). Born in NYC September 26, 1924. Died October 4, 2006 in FL. Adored uncle of Nancy, BJ, Stacey, John and Tom. Brother-in-law of Ruth, dear friend to Bob and Susan. Dick retired to Clearwater, but his heart never left New York. He will be missed by many.       
 SALSITZ--Norman. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of American Friends of Magen David Adom-Armdi mourn the passing of Norman Salsitz. Norman was President of the Suburban AFMDA Chapter in Springfield/Union, NJ and an active and committed member of the organization. Our sincerest con
 STEIN--Howard. My brother, the warmest, most caring, most loving, and most delightful person. I shall miss him forever. Lucille Stein Kantor       
 SCHNEIDER -- William E., CPA. The partners and staff of Cornick, Garber & Sandler, LLP mourn the untimely passing of our partner, mentor and dear friend William ''Bill'' Schneider. We extend our deepest condolences to Bill's wife Michele, their beautiful daughters Rebecca and Emily and the 
 STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a devoted leader and 1986 guest of honor at its Holocaust Remembrance Dinner. We extend our sincerest condolences to his daughter Romana Strochlitz Primus, an honoree in 2000, and 
 BLOCH--Robert W. A man of ideals and ideas, many will miss him. Herbert C. Bernard       
 DOPPELT--Stanley. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Stanley Doppelt. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Seth Blumenfeld, President Hildy Wagenheim, Secretary $(6$)DOPPELT--Stanley. We extend o
 GERSON--Al. Dearest Al, our love encompassed more than one lifetime and I eagerly await the moment we cross paths again-another time, another place when our hands touch once more. Watch for me, I'll be the girl who can't sing a note. With all my love, Lorrie $(6$)GERSON--Al. We will
 GOLDRING--Allen. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, A llen Goldring. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Howard S. Jacobs, President Sandra J. Ash, Secretary $(6$)GOLDRING--Allen. The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Comm
 ISAACS--Harvey A., irreplaceable husband to Florence for 44 years, passed away Monday, October 16, 2006 after a long illness. The loving father of Jonathan and Andrew and father-in-law of Katie was general counsel to the National Customs Brokers and Forwarders Association of America and a s
 KOLBE--K. William Esq., of Essex Fells, NJ, died on October 15, 2006. Born in Passaic, NJ on September 29, 1926, he was a graduate of the Hill School, Pottstown, PA, Princeton University, class of '48, and the University of Virginia Law School in 1952. He worked for 53 years for the law fir
 McMANIS--Douglas R. The American Geographical Society notes with sadness the death on September 30th of Douglas R. McManis, editor of the Geographical Review for 20 years and 2001 recipient of the society's Samuel Finley Breese Morse Medal ''for the encouragement of geographical research.''
 OWEN--Thomas B. Jr. On Saturday, October 14, 2006 of Gaithersburg, MD. Loving husband of 62 years of Rosemary Owen. Beloved father of Catherine Owen of Martinez, CA; Thomas Owen (wife Erika) of Sammamish, WA; James Owen (wife Sylvie) of Paris, France; and Nancy Owen-Badger (husband Paul) of
 RUBIN--William D., Sir. PDSC: Members of Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, New York, mourn the loss of this vital brother. We extend condolences to his wife Zelda and family.       
 TRIGOR--Yehoshua, Ambassador. The world - wide Shaare Zedek Medical Center family mourns the loss of a dear and cherished friend. As a seasoned diplomat who represented The State of Israel in a variety of capacities for nearly five decades, he vigorously, compellingly, and effectively champ
 VERGARI--Carl A. Integrity, humor, honesty, loyalty, and a deep dedication and love of his family and friends are qualities that made Carl truly a unique person. We treasure our many memories with you and Gen and your beautiful family, and are proud to have known you and call you a friend. 
 STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, who was part of our journey from old to new, and creating a new life in a new place. Our heartfelt condolences to Romana, Chuck and the family. Henry and Rose Moskowitz and Family $(6$)STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The Officers, M
 Sheldon Meyer, a distinguished editor of nonfiction books who was almost single-handedly responsible for the Americanization of Oxford University Press in his more than 40 years there, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Meyer died after a long illness, his famil
 Christopher Glenn, a longtime CBS News correspondent whose soothing, authoritative baritone voice became familiar to millions as he read the news to adults, explained it to children and often reported it himself, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 68. The cause was liver cance
 Marc Hodler, the senior Swiss member of the International Olympic Committee, who in 1998 exposed widespread bribe-taking among the Olympic delegates who decided where the Games would take place, died Wednesday in Bern, Switzerland. He was 87. The cause was complications after a stro
 CAMPBELL--Patton. New York CIty Opera notes with sadness the passing of our colleague and friend. Since joining the company in 1959 Patton designed costumes for 20 of our productions including the world premieres of Moore's ''The Wings of the Dove'', Hoiby's ''Natalia Petrovna'' and Beeson'
 CENKNER--Stefan John, MD, age 94, died suddenly at his home in Pocantico Hills, NY, on October 16, 2006. Survived by his loving wife of 52 years, Ingrid, two children and three grandchildren. Memorial service will be held Friday at 3:30pm at the Church of St. Mary Magdalene in Pocantico Hil
 DOPPELT--Stanley.Our very dear friend. You will never be forgotten. We will miss you. Gloria and Sherman $(6$)DOPPELT--Stanley. Albert Einstein College of Medicine expresses sorrow upon the passing of our dear friend who with his wife, Ellie, was a respected member of our Society of
 HURLEY--James Lance, of Greenwich, CT, beloved husband of Martha Nold Hurley, also of Greenwich, and father of Joanna Thorne Hurley, of Santa Fe, NM, died on his 80th birthday, October 16th, surrounded by loved ones. Beloved and respected by all who knew him, he was born in Montclair, NJ, a
 ISAACS--Harvey. Special Friend, we loved you and will miss you. Ruth and Sam Perelson Elaine and Wally Nathan $(6$)ISAACS--Harvey A. (1935-2006) It is with sadness that we bid farewell to Harvey A. Isaacs, who was managing partner of Tompkins & Davidson, LLP until his recent retirem
 KING--John F. The Professional Advisors Council of the Calvary Fund mourns with sadness the loss of our esteemed member and colleague, John F. King. His commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital as well as his strategic counsel and dedicated participation were instrumental in the format
 LEVY--James A., M.D. Loving husband to Susan, father to Jenni and Joseph, and grandfather to Emma Smith; devoted father-in-law to David Smith and Susanne Rehnstrom. Remembered by his patients for his kindness and generosity, and by all who knew him for his strength and dignity. He was born 
 MURRAY--John G., Sr., 83, passed away at his home October 16th in the company of his loving family. John was predeceased by his brother Matthew Murray (Bro). John is survived by his wife Joan, son John Jr., brothers Morgan, Art and Parker, two grandchildren, Andrew and Shayla and numerous n
 PACKER--Stephen, 77, Rye, New York. Survived by wife Alice of 50 years, sons Robert (Camilla Rab) of New York City and Richard of Austin, Texas, granddaughters Zara and Zeba, and sister Julie Mazo of Savannah, Georgia. Retired Chief Economist of the Mobil Oil Corporation, he studied economi
 ROSS--Walter, 92, of New York City died October 18, 2006. Survived by his wife Georgette (nee Audier) Ross, daughter Margaret Ross Patterson, sister Rena Bartos, grandchildren Deborah, Rebecca, Stephen and Amy; and four great - grandchildren. Funeral service Friday, 11AM, Hawthorne Funeral 
 VERGARI--Carl A. Integrity, humor, honesty, loyalty, and a deep dedication and love of his family and friends are qualities that made Carl truly a unique person. We treasure our many memories with you and Gen and your beautiful family, and are proud to have known you and call you a friend. 
 STROCHLITZ--Sigmund. The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity mourns the passing of its beloved co-founder and friend, who having survived Auschwitz, reinvented his life and started a beautiful family. With his creative mind and big heart, he was always there when we needed him. Romana: as h
 Rafael Quintero, a daring secret agent in the most dangerous American covert operations against Fidel Castro, died Oct. 1 in Baltimore. He was 66. His death, after a history of kidney failure, was kept almost as secret as his life as a spy, until last night. It was confirmed at a me
 Hermann Frederick Eilts, who as a diplomat in the Middle East helped Henry A. Kissinger with his shuttle diplomacy, nursed President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt through the Camp David peace talks and dodged a Libyan hit team, died Oct. 12 at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 84. His s
 ISAACS--Harvey. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Harvey Isaacs. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Howard Sharfstein, President       
 KING--John F. The Professional Advisors Council of the Calvary Fund mourns with sadness the loss of our esteemed member and colleague, John F. King. His commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital as well as his strategic counsel and dedicated participation were instrumental in the format
 MURRAY--John G., Sr., 83, passed away at his home October 16th in the company of his loving family. John was predeceased by his brother Matthew Murray (Bro). John is survived by his wife Joan, son John Jr., brothers Morgan, Art and Parker, two grandchildren, Andrew and Shayla and numerous n
 VERGARI--Carl A. Integrity, humor, honesty, loyalty, and a deep dedication and love of his family and friends are qualities that made Carl truly a unique person. We treasure our many memories with you and Gen and your beautiful family, and are proud to have known you and call you a friend. 
 VISCONTI--Frank A. The sudden death of my best friend for 50 years. What can one say except that there can never be another like him.... an original. We join the Visconti family in their grief! Leon,Evanthia,andChip Horne       
 Paul R. Halmos, a mathematician known for exploring the implications of probability theory and helping simplify the expression of mathematical concepts in writing and speech, died on Oct. 2 in San Jose, Calif. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, said a spokesman for Santa Clara Univ
 Alvin M. Weinberg, a top nuclear scientist and leading advocate for commercial nuclear power who helped steer the Oak Ridge National Laboratory throughout the cold war, died on Wednesday in his home in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was 91. Dr. Weinberg's death was confirmed by his family.    
 Herbert B. Leonard, a film and television producer who left an indelible mark on American popular culture with television series including ''Route 66'' and ''Naked City,'' died last Saturday at his daughter's home in Hollywood. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Gina Leo
 ANDERSON--Harry B., Jr., 88, died Oct. 18 in Princeton, N.J. He graduated from Yale University in 1939. He entered the U.S. Marine Corps and was awarded the Silver Star for bravery and the Navy Commendation Ribbon in World War II. He joined Merrill Lynch in 1947 and later became Chairman an
 LEIKIND--Harry. On October 19, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Ellen, his sons Steven and Robert, his daughters-in-law LoRene and Ellen, and his three grandchildren Sam, Ben and Noah. Services Sunday 1 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in
 MILLER--Ward MacLaughlin Jr., 73, husband, father and successful corporate attorney, died from pancreatic cancer October 17th at his home in Glen Ridge, New Jersey surrounded by his family. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 28th at 11:00 am at the Glen Ridge Congregationa
 VISCONTI--Frank A. Frank abruptly left us on October 18th after a sudden stroke while visiting King's Point Merchant Marine Academy off the Long Island Sound. Born in NYC on East 116th Street, he lived 81 years filled with vitality embarking from Maritime College as an engineer in the US Me
 Sigmund Strochlitz, a Holocaust survivor who worked with his close friend Elie Wiesel to create the National Holocaust Memorial Museum and who led the way in starting the annual ''day of remembrance'' now observed in every state, died on Oct. 16 at his home in New London, Conn. He was 89.  
 BORER--Lee N., DVM. On October 19, 2006. (Texas A&M) Class of 1943. Beloved husband of Rita, loving father of Dr. Jeffrey Borer, grandfather of Justine and John. Founder and retired president of All World Trading and Import company. A distinguished, elegant and cultured man, a philanthropis
 DOLINKO--Marvin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marvin Dolinko, beloved father of Nancy Berkowitz, and father-in-law to David Berkowitz, devoted friends whose dedication strengthens our efforts on behalf of the Jewish community
 EDGAR--Allain Emory. An extraordinary book collector who over the last 18 years gave to the Manhattanville College Library his unparalleled collection of more than 30,000 biographies. We will always remember his devotion to the College and to the book. Richard Berman, President, Manhattanvi
 FRISCHMAN--Sol. A man of great energy and fierce will, died October 18, at the venerable age of 105. Born in Austria in 1901, on his own since the age of 14, he emigrated to the U.S. Exhilarated by the freedom he found here, he became a driving force in the retail community of the Bronx, fo
 KAPP--George. 90. Passed away on October 21. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father, grandfather, greatgrandfather, brother and companion of Philip, Lucy, Edna and Evelina, David, Janine, Mara, Danny, Tida, Taisen, Tommy, Artie, Ira, June, Natalie, Ray and Rosalie. A lifelong science teac
 LABUSH--Gerald M.,59, died October 20, 2006, of gall bladder cancer at home with his family. Born in Brooklyn to Muriel Krasoff Labush and the late Isadore Labush, Gerald lived his entire life in the city he adored. He leaves his wife of 31 years, Beth Kraegel Labush, his daughters and sons
 MILLER--Gordon Edmunds. 54, of Santa Fe died Tuesday, October 10th of heart failure. He was born in San Francisco to the late Edmona Lyman and the late Paul A. Miller. In 1956, following a divorce of his parents, he accompanied his mother and brothers to New York. In 1957, his mother marrie
 RISKIN--Julian. 89. On October 21, 2006. Retired Colonel US Army. Served WWII under General Patton. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. He was a retired broker for Morgan Stanley in NYC with a degree in Accounting from St. John's University. He lived in NYC for over 50 years. Graveside ser
 ROSENBERG--Sidney. Died on September 26, age 88 at home in Manhattan after a distinguished career in education. He began placing high on the Civil Service examination as an English Teacher in training before World War II. He served in New Guinea and then in the U. S. Armed Forces Institute 
 SCHOER--Louis. Husband of Beatrice, brother of Thelma Russo, loving father of Allen and Barry, devoted father-inlaw of Diane and Olivia, adored and adoring grandfather of Natalie, Kyla and Noah, died peacefully on October 19, after a long illness. Family and friends will miss his quiet humo
 STRIKA--Dr. Zivko Tony, 74, beloved father of Susanna and Nina. Donations in his honor to Tibet Aid, 34 Tinker Rd, Woodstock, NY 12498. 877TIBETAI D for TCV Hospital.       
 VISCONTI--Frank A. Frank abruptly left us on October 18th after a sudden stroke while visiting King's Point Merchant Marine Academy off the Long Island Sound. Born in NYC on East 116th Street, he lived 81 years filled with vitality embarking from Maritime College as an engineer in the US Me
 WEITMAN--Warren Per shing, of Sterling, VA formeraly of Wilton, CT. Son of Emanuel and Ruth, age 87, passed away peacefully in the early morning hours of October 19th, 2006 at Inova Fairfax Hospital, Fairfax, VA. Warren was a graudate of Erasmus Hall in Brooklyn, the University of Pennsylva
 WOOLIS--Sol, 92, died peacefully October 19th with family at his side. Survived by children David, Rebecca, Bill (Dassi Citron), and grandchildren Cameron, Nshama, Sarah, Simone, Danielle. Bronx boy, Russian Jewish immigrant son, progressive union man, family man, worked hard, player harder
 KONDRITZER--Gerald Robert, died peacefully at home on October 14, 2006, in the company of his beloved wife, Christy Wilkinson. He was born on July 13, 1947, in Baltimore, Maryland, and was an alumnus of Columbia University and Marietta College. His distinguished career in finance included p
 OUTERBRIDGE - Joseph, died on September 29, 2006 in Macau. A graduate of St. Paul's School and Maine Maritime Academy, he served in the U.S. Navy for two years before moving to Hong Kong and then Macau. He resided in Macau for over forty years and worked for Deak & Co. He is survived by his
 ANDERSEN--William G. Jr., retired Executive Director of the Episcopal Church Foundation, died peacefully at home on October 20th. He encouraged innovation in leadership formation and resource development as ways of building new capacities among Episcopalians at a time of unprecedented chang
 BERGMAN - Martin. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Executive Board and Board of Trustees       
 ELAHI--Cyrus. One with love In his heart Never dies.       
 HELLER--Peter Seton. 80, corporate lawyer at Webster and Sheffield for 40 years, chamber music composer for 15, and lifelong philanthropist, died at home in New York City of melanoma on October 21, 2006. A memorial service will be held on Friday, October 27, at 11 AM, at St. James Church, 7
 ORANS--Jacob, 43, died October 21. He was an incredibly loving and caring father to his daughters Sarah and Hannah. He will be remembered for his larger-than-life personality, his generosity and his humor by all who knew him, especially his former wife and best friend, Barbara Orans Spizzir
 PREISER--Aaron. 73, of Morristown, NJ, formerly of Livingston, NJ, died on October 20, 2006. Born in the Bronx, NY, Aaron graduated from Bronx High School of Science and Columbia University. Aaron pursued a 38-year engineering career with Exxon Research and Engineering Company, and traveled
 SEILER--Jerome, M.D., of Great Neck, NY, a devoted husband and loving father, died on October 22nd, at the age of 68. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Harriet Silverstein Seiler and siblings Leonard and Elaine Seiler and Ilene and Ernest Gruenfeld. He was a fabulous father to Sharon 
 William Bright, an internationally renowned linguist who spent more than half a century inventorying the vanishing riches of the indigenous languages of the United States, died on Oct. 15 in Louisville, Colo. He was 78 and lived in Boulder, Colo. The cause was a brain tumor, said hi
 Edgar E. Summerlin, a tenor saxophonist and composer who wrote some of the first jazz music for church services, died on Oct. 10 in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Staatsburg, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia associated with cancer treatments, said his wife, Karen. Mr. Su
 Eric Newby, a dean of postwar British travel writing who spent more than half a century visiting some of the world's remotest places in journeys that to his great delight often went horribly wrong, died on Friday near Guildford, in Surrey, England. He was 86 and lived in Chilworth, also in 
 John V. Murra, a professor of anthropology who culled voluminous Spanish colonial archives for research that reshaped the image of the Incas and their vast South American empire, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 90. The death was confirmed by Blaine Friedlander, a 
 ANGE--Jean-Paul. Alexandre Ange, Julia Holmes Ange, the families Llinares, Pelanne, and Boue regret to announce the death, October 14, 2006 of Jean-Paul Ange, born August 29, 1943 in Paris, France. The families thank all his friends and colleagues for their support through these difficult t
 BARASCH--Kenneth. After a short battle with cancer, Kenneth is survived by his sons Matthew and Douglas and his daughter Stacey and by his grandchildren Naomi and Malcolm. Ken lived life to the fullest and his wit and charm will be missed by all who came to know him. Ken will be laid to res
 BEER--Bernard Dr. Prominent and well-respected scientist, Dies at 74 Dr. Bernard Beer, PhD, a pioneer in the field of in psychopharmacology and co-founder of DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc., died peaceably at his home in Cliffside Park, NJ early Sunday morning, his wife Blanca at his side. He was 
 BERGMANN--Martin, of Great Neck, NY and Aventura, FL, on October 22nd, 2006 at age 77, from pancreatic Cancer. A leader in the business world he founded and was CEO of a national retail firm and a real estate conglomerate. He served on numerous corporate boards and was a trustee of the Amal
 BRESLAUER--Joel C., on October 17, 2006. Survived by beloved wife Miriam, his son K'thiel (Keith.), daughter-inlaw Lauren, grandchildren Arianna, Sophia, Samantha and Aaron and sister Susan Lee Nelson. Mr. Breslauer was a devoted father and husband, scholar and friend to many. Originally fr
 DAMAN--Harlan. The Young Israel of Scarsdale mourns the passing of Harlan Daman, beloved husband of Carole and devoted father of Avi and Gila. A gentle soul, Harlan was a man of quiet dignity, warmth, humor, great intellect, piety and kindness. He will be missed. Jacob Rubenstein, Rabbi Jon
 DENZER--Alan R. October 23, 2006 died peacefully at home. Born May 8, 1923 in NYC. Devoted and loving husband of Mary Jane, brother of Rhonie Denzer Bissone of Buenos Aires, Argentina, father of Alan, Jr., Diane, Richard and Holly, stepfather to Cathryn, Peter and Thomas Jakobson. Graduate 
 HELLER--Peter Seton. 80, corporate lawyer at Webster and Sheffield for 40 years, chamber music composer for 15, and lifelong philanthropist, died at home in New York City of melanoma on October 21, 2006. A memorial service will be held on Friday, October 27, at 11 AM, at St. James Church, 7
 ORANS--Jacob, 43, died October 21. He was an incredibly loving and caring father to his daughters Sarah and Hannah. He will be remembered for his larger-than-life personality, his generosity and his humor by all who knew him, especially his former wife and best friend, Barbara Orans Spizzir
 SCHEIDER--Edward J. The members of the Lotos Club mourn the loss of their past president(1970-1975), Edward Scheider, a distinguished colleague and longtime friend, and send condolences to his family. $(6$)SCHEIDER--Edward J. passed away on Sunday, October 22, 2006 in NYC. He was 90
 SEILER--Jerome, M.D., of Great Neck, NY, a devoted husband and loving father, died on October 22nd, at the age of 68. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Harriet Silverstein Seiler and siblings Leonard and Elaine Seiler and Ilene and Ernest Gruenfeld. He was a fabulous father to Sharon 
 SILVERSTEIN -- Fred (''Heart''), 88, died October 22, 2006. Most beloved husband, father and grandfather. He was a man of tremendous heart and with great love for his life. He was a source of stability and love to many. In his 80s he wrote and published two mystery novels and could have wri
 ALLAIN--Emory Edgar. An extraordinary book collector who over the last 18 years gave to the Manhattanville College Library his unparalleled collection of more than 30,000 biographies. We will always remember his devotion to the College and to the book. Richard Berman, President, Manhattanvi
 BEER--Bernard, PhD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with our colleagues in the Beth Israel Cancer Center in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved benefactor, Bernard Beer, PhD. Dr. Beer's generosity helped Beth Israel expand its scope of se
 BROTMAN--Richard E. New York Medical College is saddened by the loss of our colleague, Dr. Richard E. Brotman, clinical professor of psychiatry and director of the Center For Comprehensive Health Practice in Manhattan. His dedication to teaching and patient care will be deeply missed. We ex
 CRAHAN--Michael. On October 23, 2006. Beloved life partner and soulmate of Alan Lenoble. Loving son of Edna Crahan. Dear friend of many. Devoted his life to the care and best quality of life for the M.R./D.D. Residential Community. A celebration of his life will be held on Friday October 27
 FOSTER--Alan. Alan Herbert Foster, senior financial executive and university professor. Born 11/ 7/1925, died 10/18/2006. Son of Herbert and Margaret J. (Griffin) Foster; married Cynthia Ann Brooks, 6/26/1954; children Mark Brooks, Andrew Herbert. USNR, 1945-46; BS, BA, Boston College, 1951
 HELLER--Peter S. It is withdeep sadness that the entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLR) family acknowledges the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Peter S. Heller, who served with great distinction for many years as Vice Chairman of the SLR Board of Trustees and, subsequen
 ISRAELOFF--Bernard died on October 24th. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Bonnie (Chris) and Howie (Allison), adoring PopPop to Ashley, Becky and Ryan. The world's greatest Pharmacist and owner of Biwise Drugs in Long Beach, NY for 41 years, Bernie loved everyone and everyone lo
 LATORRE--Frank. A guy who fought hard on and off the greens. We will miss him at 7:23am on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Stu, Joel and Philip       
 MARQUARD-William Albert, 86, of Lexington, Kentucky, died on October 22, 2006 at the University of Kentucky Chandler Medical Center after a brief illness. He was born in Pittsburgh, PA, son of the late William Albert and Anna Wild Marquard. Mr. Marquard graduated in 1940 from the Wharton Sc
 RICE--James Campbell, III, Director of Development for Hospital Audiences Inc. and a former Assistant Commissioner of the NYC Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services, passed on from our world on October 23 at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Rice was a pioneer in t
 SCHEIDER--Edward J. passed away on Sunday, October 22, 2006 in NYC. He was 90 years old. He was a resident of NYC and Fleischmanns, NY. Mr. Scheider was born in NYC and attended the Graduate School of Commerce, and received his MBA from the NYU Stern School of Business where he was also an 
 SCHIFRIN--Arthur. His attitude and humor gave inspiration and hope to so many friends and family. He will be missed but never forgotten. Our love and condolences to Terri, Abbey, Mindy, David and his friends. Fran and Herb Wilson       
 SILVERSTEIN -- Fred (''Heart''), 88, died October 22, 2006. Most beloved husband, father and grandfather. He was a man of tremendous heart and with great love for his life. He was a source of stability and love to many. In his 80s he wrote and published two mystery novels and could have wri
 OPPENHEIMER--Arthur. The Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale mourns the loss of beloved member and Haver, Arthur Oppenheimer. May his memory be a blessing.       
 S. Peter Rosen, a physicist who combined pioneering studies of the subatomic particles called neutrinos with an administrative role in helping to guide federal research in high-energy physics, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, 
 Spoony Singh, a canny but star-struck entrepreneur whose brainstorm was to offer gawking Hollywood tourists wax statues of movie stars since the real ones were obligingly sparse, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his gra
 Benjamin Meed, a leading advocate for Jewish Holocaust survivors who in the decades after the war gathered them together by the tens of thousands, reuniting people with friends, neighbors and family members presumed to have been lost forever, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was
 Leonid Hambro, a concert pianist noted for his prodigious memory, improvising genius and humorous musical desecrations as Victor Borge's straight man, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was complications of head and vertebrae injuries suffered in a fall six weeks ago,
 CONE--George E., 79, of Somers, NY, formerly of Chappaqua, NY on October 24, 2006. He received a B.A. and L.L.B. from Columbia University, and an L.L.M. from NYU. Member of the New York and Georgia Bars, and the United States Supreme Court. FBI Special Agent 1951-1956. Attorney for IBM 1957
 CRAHAN--Michael. On October 23, 2006. Beloved life partner and soulmate of Alan Lenoble. Loving son of Edna Crahan. Dear friend of many. Devoted his life to the care and best quality of life for the M.R./D.D. Residential Community. A celebration of his life will be held on Friday October 27
 DECTER--Philip. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a veteran leader and supporter of its program to strengthen Israel's economy. Phil served with distinction as Metro New Jersey General Chairman and was a member of the National Campaign
 DUKE--James Daryl. After a courageous struggle with pulmonary fibrosis, Daryl passed away peacefully at his West Vancouver home on October 21, 2006. Born March 8, 1929 in Vancouver, Daryl's love of British Columbia never waned even while he wandered the world. The smell of the ocean, the ch
 LEVINE--Lawrence W. We mourn the loss of a friend whose friendship extended from Washington Heights in the '50s to the present. A fighter to the end, his brilliance and warmth will remain with us forever. Our love and sympathy to Cornelia, Alex, Joshua and Isaac. Doris and Jack Hirsch      
 LINDER--Cortland D., of Redding, CT and Pawling, NY, died October 11th, 2006. The entire Circumnavigators Club expresses profound sorrow on the passing of its International Past President (19661967), Foundation Founder, Past President (1978-1979) and Honorary President. Our deepest and sinc
 MEED--Benjamin. The Claims Conference mourns the passing of Benjamin Meed, its Honorary Vice President. Member of its Negotiating Committee, he was a tireless fighter for the rights of Holocaust survivors and for the preservation of the memory of the Shoah. Our deepest condolences to his wi
 O'MOORE--John J., of New Rochelle, died October 24, 2006, at age 83. Born in Ireland February 3, 1923 to John & Mae (Gabbett) O'Moore, he was a Licensed Real Estate Broker. Beloved husband of the late Gilda (Micera) O'Moore. Survived by his son Paul O'Moore (wife Margo), grandchildren, Mars
 RATLIFF--Norbert C. Mr. Ratliff, a design professional in New York for more than thirty-five years, passedquickly and unexpectedly on Monday, October 23, 2006. He succumbed to a brain hemorhage while a patient in New York Presbyterian Hospital. Norbert was born December 4, 1930, iN Ottawa, 
 SCHUMAN--Walter Z. , DDS. Of Boca Raton, Fl died on October 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Olga, father of Norman, Mitchell, Joel and Beth (Rosenman), father-in-law of Varda, Ellen, Carole and Mark, and grandfather of Lloyd, Stefanie, Randi, Jason, Laura, Alexandra, Eric, Ari, Josh and Liana.
 WILKING--LEO F.J., M.D. Died following a stroke in Houston, Texas on October 13, 2006. Leo F.J. Wilking was born in Port Arthur, Texas, on April 1, 1919. He was educated in public schools in Texas and Casper, Wyoming, and received his undergraduate degree from Harvard in 1941 and his M.D. f
 Arthur Hill, who brought engrossing complexity and understated intelligence to hundreds of roles on stage, screen and television and won a Tony Award for his performance in ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,'' died on Sunday in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 84. The cause was comp
 BRAISTED--Charles H.B. Of Cornwall, VT died October 24, 2006. He is survived by his wife Gayl, daughters Christina and Melissa, and grandchildren Miles, Charlotte and Caelan. A graduate of Hamilton College and St. John's University, he practiced law with Davis, Polk & Wardwell for 30 years 
 DUKE--James Daryl. After a courageous struggle with pulmonary fibrosis, Daryl passed away peacefully at his West Vancouver home on October 21, 2006. Born March 8, 1929 in Vancouver, Daryl's love of British Columbia never waned even while he wandered the world. The smell of the ocean, the ch
 FIDLER--Leo, died of heart failure October 24, 2006, in Rome, celebrating his 93rd birthday. Beloved husband of the late Helen Fidler, inspirational father of Susan Smith and the late Bonny Robbins. He will be missed by his loving daughter, in-laws, 14 grandchildren, 12 great grandchildren,
 GAREL--E. Fred, Jr. 85, on October 23 after a brief illnesss. Born May 8, 1921 to Elmer F. and Rosina Murphy Garel, he lived most of his life in NYC, where he worked as a printer, short order cook, oiler, elevator operator, hospital orderly and--at the Ethical Culture Society, 1957-1985--ma
 KOLB--Lawrence C., MD, a pioneer in psychiatric research and an innovator in the delivery of community care to the mentally ill, died on October 23, 2006 at the age of 95. He served as Director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Chairperson of the Department of Psychiatry at Co
 KRESS--Richard Q. Richard Q. Kress, longtime Greenwich resident and former president of Norelco, the consumer products division of North American Philips Corporation died Saturday October 14th in Greenwich, CT. He was 78. Complications from numerous health problems caused his death after a 
 MALTZ--William. In loving memory of Jute. Brother inlaw, uncle and great uncle. Brief and Toback families $(6$)MALTZ--William, who developed and built major residential construction projects in New York City and Boston, died October 25 of pancreatic cancer in Boca Raton, Florida. He
 MEED--Benjamin. We deeply mourn the passing of our lifelong friend. Ben was a survivor whose life purpose was to never let the world forget the murder of the six million Jewish lives during the Holocaust. Ben was a Warsawer with our late father and husband, Robert Born. Their friendship and
 MILLER--Ward M., Jr. The New England Society in the City of New York deeply regrets the passing of its second vice-president, Ward M. Miller, Jr. His valuable contributions will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife, Mary Anne, and his children, Ward III and Anne.       
 REDDY --Robert K. died October 20th of a stroke. An artist, art director, and Shakespeare scholar, he appeared in many Ridiculous Theatrical Company productions. Charles Ludlam wrote the role of Saint Gaudens in Camille for him in 1973. Off Broadway he directed Aristophanes' The Cyclops and
 SCHUMAN--Walter Z. , DDS. Of Boca Raton, Fl died on October 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Olga, father of Norman, Mitchell, Joel and Beth (Rosenman), father-in-law of Varda, Ellen, Carole and Mark, and grandfather of Lloyd, Stefanie, Randi, Jason, Laura, Alexandra, Eric, Ari, Josh and Liana.
 SUTTON--Dennis M., 53, of HollywooD, FL passed away on Tuesday, October 24th 2006. He is survived by his wife, Susan; daughter, Christina; granddaughter,Marissa; 2 brothers; and nieces and nephews. For information visit www.fredhunters.com.       
 SAVAGE--David. October 27, 1989. Remembered always with love by his family.       
 Todd Skinner, an internationally renowned rock climber who made first ascents on dozens of the world's most treacherous routes and shared those adventures as a motivational speaker, died Monday after falling several hundred feet during a climb in Yosemite National Park in California. He was
 Former President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, a powerful bureaucrat who led Pakistan from 1988 to 1993 and dismissed two governments on charges of corruption, died Friday in the northwestern city of Peshawar. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia after a long illness, said his son-in-law, Irfan 
 Dr. Lawrence C. Kolb, a prominent mental health administrator and researcher who helped create the community mental health movement and became the public face of psychiatry for a generation of New Yorkers, died on Oct. 20 in Orlando, Fla. He was 95. Dr. Kolb, who had been living wit
 Lawrence W. Levine, a prolific historian whose deeply researched, tightly argued books challenged conventional wisdom in areas ranging from Shakespeare to slave songs to today's college curriculums, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 73. The cause was cancer, the
 DANIELS--Jim. Condolences to Bonnie & family members. Jim was treasured & adored by all whose lives he touched. Jacquie Watkins Slifka       
 KROBOT--Charles J., Jr. Founder Kilroy Metal Products, 89, on October 26, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Sue, loving father of Charles and his wife, Stephanie, proud grandfather of Jonathan and Jennifer. Founder and retired Chairman of Kilroy Metal Products. Founder of Subcontractors Tra
 LONG--Lawrence K. (Larry). Passed away October 14th, age 86. A PGA professional at Old Tappan Golf Club, NJ. He was a former vaudeville, nightclub and Broadway headliner. He is survived by his wife Minnie-Faye and children Jodi and Larry, Jr.       
 SCHANDLER--Jack. The Board of Directors and the entire White Plains Hospital Center family mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of Jack Schandler, resident of Greensboro, N.C., father of our President and CEO, John B. Schandler. We extend our sincere condolences to Jack's wife Deborah, Jon
 SCHUMAN--Walter Z. , DDS. Of Boca Raton, Fl died on October 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Olga, father of Norman, Mitchell, Joel and Beth (Rosenman), father-in-law of Varda, Ellen, Carole and Mark, and grandfather of Lloyd, Stefanie, Randi, Jason, Laura, Alexandra, Eric, Ari, Josh and Liana.
 Joe Niekro, the knuckleballing right-hander who won 221 major league games in 22 seasons and combined with his Hall of Fame brother Phil to win more games than any pair of brothers in major league history, died Friday in Tampa, Fla. He was 61. His death was announced by Tal Smith, t
 ANSELL--Leonard. 83, whose career as a journalist and public relations executive spanned 55 years, died Friday, October 20, 2006, at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, New York. His lifelong passion for journalism led to Mr. Ansell being elected Editor-in-Chief of the New York University H
 BROTMAN--Richard, Ph.D. The staff, board, and patients of the Center for Comprehensive Health Practice (CCHP) mourn the loss of Dr. Richard Brotman, our leader for the past 46 years. He was a champion of the need to make interdisciplinary health and human services available to everyone thro
 BRUNN--John William. 58, on October 27, 2006 of Upper Saddle River, NJ. Beloved son of Ruth and Richard A. Brunn of Upper Saddle River. Born in NYC on February 25, 1948. Beloved brother of Richard W. Brunn and his wife AliceAnne of Waco, TX and James R. Brunn and his wife Leslie of Upper Sa
 DANIEL--James. A mentor and friend, loved and admired by all who knew him. A teacher who left no encouragement unexpressed and who took pride in his students' accomplishments. A totally unselfish man who left no kindness undone. Our hearts go out to Bonnie and to his family. He left this wo
 GAREL--E. Fred, Jr. 85, on October 23 after a brief illnesss. Born May 8, 1921 to Elmer F. and Rosina Murphy Garel, he lived most of his life in NYC, where he worked as a printer, short order cook, oiler, elevator operator, hospital orderly and--at the Ethical Culture Society, 1957-1985--ma
 HALSEY--William D. 88, died October 24th. This distinguished editor was senior publishing executive with MacMillan Inc., where he created dictionaries and major encyclopedias. After graduating from Haverford College, he served in WWII on Stars and Stripes in London. He is survived by wife Z
 HANLY--Joseph M. CSP, age 80, died Monday, October 23, in San Francisco. Father Hanly was ordained in 1953 at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City. For seventeen years Fr. Joe was at St Paul the Apostle Church in Los Angeles, conducting Inquiry Classes for non-Catholics and marriage
 HATCHER--Tom. Died of lung cancer on October 26th at the age of 77. He created a unique private park in Quogue, Long Island that most people in the village aren't aware exists. He also had an unusually close and open relationship with the playwright Arthur Laurents that began over 50 years 
 HORTON--Charles Edwin M.D., 81, founder of Physicians for Peace and pioneering plastic reconstructive surgeon, died peacefully at his home in Suffolk, VA., on October 23. He is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Geraldine O'Brien, four daughters, one son, eight grandchildren and one g
 KAUFMAN--Ira J. Age 78. Beloved husband of Audrey, nee Becker. Loving father of Stephen (Lori) Kaufman, Stacy (Emanuel) Tabachnik, Elizabeth K. Flynn, John (Graziela) Kaufman; stepfather of Nancy Cranford, Scott Rautbord, Linda (Bill) Jacobs, Lauren Rautbord & Suzanne (Milton) Mooney. Cheri
 KROBOT--Charles J., Jr. Founder Kilroy Metal Products, 89, on October 26, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Sue, loving father of Charles and his wife, Stephanie, proud grandfather of Jonathan and Jennifer. Founder and retired Chairman of Kilroy Metal Products. Founder of Subcontractors Tra
 LONG--Lawrence K. (Larry). Passed away October 14th, age 86. A PGA professional at Old Tappan Golf Club, NJ. He was a former vaudeville, nightclub and Broadway headliner. He is survived by his wife Minnie-Faye and children Jodi and Larry, Jr.       
 MEED--Benjamin. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the passing of our dear friend, Benjamin Meed. A visionary, Ben devoted his life to preserving the memory of the Holocaust and pursuing justice for the survivors. May Vladka and the Meed family be comforted among the 
 SCHUMAN--Walter Z. , DDS. Of Boca Raton, Fl died on October 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Olga, father of Norman, Mitchell, Joel and Beth (Rosenman), father-in-law of Varda, Ellen, Carole and Mark, and grandfather of Lloyd, Stefanie, Randi, Jason, Laura, Alexandra, Eric, Ari, Josh and Liana.
 SWERDLICK--Robert, age 84, died peacefully Tuesday, October 24th, at the end of a full life dedicated to family, friends and career. Beloved husband of 59 years to the late Harriet Swerdlick, he is survived by his devoted children Carol and her husband Harmon; Susan and her husband David; h
 WEINSTOCK--Marvin, ''Dr. M.'', 76, of Boynton Beach, FL and Concordia, NJ, October 15th, 1930-October 24th, 2006. Born in Jamaica NY. Adored and respected soul mate of Phyllis, beloved guiding constant presence for Larry and Jeff, devoted fun Poppy to Stephanie. St. John's College of Pharma
 Red Auerbach, who built the Boston Celtics into one of the greatest dynasties in sports, presiding over 16 National Basketball Association championship teams as a coach, general manager and club president, died yesterday in the Washington area. He was 89. His death was announced by 
 CUSHMAN--Allerton, 99, of Paradise Valley, AZ, died on October 25 at Scottsdale Healthcare Hospital. The cause was cardiac failure, his son said. Mr. Cushman is survived by his wife Virginia Cushman of Paradise Valley; son Allerton Cushman, Jr. of Boston; stepdaughter Michele Trevor Christe
 DANIEL--Jim. Jim was a man of great warmth and integrity who loved his profession. He will be missed by his many students and admirers. Bunny and Ron Unger       
 GOLDSMITH--Jim, actor, artist, photographer, died October 28, 2006, age 71. Much loved companion of Jonathan Rendell, friend to many. No service at his request, a celebration of his life will be arranged. ''Now cracks a noble heart, Goodnight Sweet Prince.'' $(6$)GOLDSMITH--Jim. We 
 HATCHER--Tom. Died of lung cancer on October 26th at the age of 77. He created a unique private park in Quogue, Long Island that most people in the village aren't aware exists. He also had an unusually close and open relationship with the playwright Arthur Laurents that began over 50 years 
 SWERDLICK--Robert, age 84, died peacefully Tuesday, October 24th, at the end of a full life dedicated to family, friends and career. Beloved husband of 59 years to the late Harriet Swerdlick, he is survived by his devoted children Carol and her husband Harmon; Susan and her husband David; h
 Pontus Hulten, a restless champion of contemporary art whose achievements spanned many countries and the founding directorships of several museums, including the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday at his home in Stockholm. H
 Red Auerbach, who built the Boston Celtics into one of the greatest dynasties in sports, presiding over 16 National Basketball Association championship teams as a coach, general manager and club president, died Saturday in Washington. He was 89. His death was announced by the Celtic
 Arnold Sundgaard, a lyricist, librettist and playwright who collaborated with some of the most distinguished artists of the 20th century, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Dallas. He was 96. The cause was congestive heart failure, his granddaughter, Maren Sundgaard, said. As a 
 Dr. Arthur I. Holleb, a surgical oncologist and educator who as chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society pushed to have mammograms provided to women under 50 and helped the society promote promising new treatments, died on Oct. 19 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85. The cause 
 Jozsef Gregor, a bass-baritone who parlayed stardom in his native Hungary into a second-act opera career in the United States, died on Friday in Budapest. He was 66. His death, after a long illness, was announced to the Hungarian news agency MTI by the opera house in Szeged, Hungary
 AIN--Stuart L. Honorable Retired Judge of the Nassau County Court. Beloved by the bench and the bar. Past president of Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn. He is survived by his best friend and companion Donna Brown, daughter Jody Ain and son Dr. Michael Ain and two grandchildren. Service at Templ
 CARVER--John A.H., 86, formerly of New York City, NY. He was born September 19, 1920 in New York, New York a son of Clifford Nickels and Helena Phiae (Maxwell) Carver. Mr. Carver graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, NH in 1938 and graduated from Princeton University in 1943. He serv
 CLANCY--Reverend Monsignor Thomas C. Peacefully returned to the Lord on October 28, 2006. Born on March 14, 1920 to William Clancy and Elizabeth (nee Corrigan). Ordained to the Holy Priesthood on April 3, 1945. After many years of faithful service to the Diocese of Brooklyn, he was appointe
 DAVIDSON--Norman, of Jamaica Estates, New York on October 29, 2006, at 81 years of age, after a long battle wtih Alzheimer's disease. Norman was a commercial artist and illustrator, and a pioneer in the early days of network television. For nearly 40 years, Norman was an art director and sc
 GOLDSMITH--Jim, actor, artist, photographer, died October 28, 2006, age 71. Much loved companion of Jonathan Rendell, friend to many. No service at his request, a celebration of his life will be arranged. ''Now cracks a noble heart, Goodnight Sweet Prince.''       
 GRASSO--Anthony 84, of Briarcliff Manor, NY died of cardio-pulmonary arrest on October 26, 2006. Mr. Grasso, a structural engineer, worked with Weiskopf & Pickworth Consulting Engineers for 38 years, 27 years as a partner, before retiring in 1987. He is survived by his beloved wife of 54 ye
 GROLLMAN -- William K., PhD. 64, an expert in financial training and the use of video and streaming media to enhance continuing professional education, died on October 30, 2006, at Calvary Hospital after a very painful battle against prostate cancer. He managed two careers simultaneously; h
 HATCHER--Tom. Died of lung cancer on October 26th at the age of 77. He created a unique private park in Quogue, Long Island that most people in the village aren't aware exists. He also had an unusually close and open relationship with the playwright Arthur Laurents that began over 50 years 
 HOLLEB--Dr. Arthur I. Eminent cancer surgeon and longtime national chief medical executive for the American Cancer Society Dr. Arthur I. Holleb of Stamford, Connecticut, passed away October 19, 2006. A native of Brooklyn, New York, Dr. Holleb graduated from Brown University and the New York
 HORNE--Glenn L., 56, died October 29, 2006. He was born on June 27, 1950 to Milton and Harriet (Slater) Horne. Glenn was a partner in the law firm of Horne & Childs in White Plains. He is survived by his wife Jane, daughter Nicole, mother Harriet and brother Evan. Funeral Service 2 P.M. on 
 KROBOT--Charles J., Jr. The officers, board of directors, staff and members of the Subcontractors Trade Association mourn the passing of Charles J. Krobot, Jr., one of the founders of our organization in 1965. His leadership and foresight will surely be missed by all.       
 LOW--H. Burton. Beloved husband of Patricia, nee Van Ronkel. Loving father of Ned, and Joanne Moreland. Proud grandfather of Jack Moreland. Fond father-in-law of John Moreland. Cherished brother of the late Leonard. On Sunday, October 29 at home in New York City. Services will be held at Fr
 McFADDEN--George, 90, of Topsham, ME, a Professor of English at Temple University, late of Southold, NY, died on October 27th. Born Brooklyn, NY. Ph.D from Columbia, he was a scholar of Dryden and Henry James.       
 MOSES--Conrad. Age 88, of Wilmington DE passed away on Friday October 27, 2006. Son of the late Frances and Louis Moses, Conrad was a Sea Gate, Brooklyn native. He graduated from New York University and the University of Georgetown Dental School. He served in the Army during WWII as a Capta
 PROCARIO--Rudolph F., a native New Yorker, House Physician at Westchester Square Hospital, Staff Psychiatrist at New York's Rockland State Hospital and long time member of the New York Athletic Club died on October 25, 2006 in Manhattan. He was 82. Dr. Procario was born on June 6th, 1924 in
 HORNCASTLE--Raymond C., of Raleigh, NC, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died peacefully at home on October 28th after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Nancy; his sons, Court and Mark and his wife, Lorena; beloved grandchildren, Brian and Mallory; sisters, Mary Jane Fitzpa
 Richard Gilman, the drama and literary critic whose elegant, contentious voice resonated through four decades in American letters, earning him both admirers and enemies of partisan fierceness, died Saturday at his home in Kusatsu, Japan. He was 83. His death, after many years of ill
