 George W. S. Trow, a writer and media critic known for his biting lamentations over what he saw as the twilight of culture in late-20th-century America, was found dead on Nov. 24 in his apartment in Naples, Italy. He was 63 and had lived in Naples for the last few years. The Italian
 DRESSNER--Sam. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Irene and the entire family our heart-felt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft Pres
 DUGAN--Frank Allan, November 29, 2006. Beloved husband of Mary. He was a prominent attorney in the NYC, NY area for many years, frequently represented the finest restaurants and was counsel to Gucci. Friends may call Friday, December 1, 2-5pm and 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 LUNZER--J.P. Nearly six decades ago, Peter crossed the ocean, married his beloved Shoshana (Skydell) obm, and earned an indelible place in the hearts of her siblings and their growing families. Business executive, sportsman, world-traveler, he was always ''away'', yet always there for our m
 MILLER--William A., the entire Continuum Health Partners community acknowledges with sadness the passing of William A. Miller, beloved brother of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Morgan Miller, a member of the Continuum Board of Trustees. To Morgan, his nephew Peter, the entire Miller
 MOSCOW--Herbert. At 90 years he left us November 28th 2006, after a short illness. Beloved husband, friend, lover of Natalie for 63 years. Adoring father of Ellen, Ann, Barbara, Daniel and son-inlaw Dennis Kirby. Proud grandfather of Alex Kirby, brother of Hilda Colish and best friend of Ju
 MURPHY--Denis, November 28, 2006. Son of the late Denis and Hannah Barrow Murphy, brother of the late John, Richard, Mary Templeton, Hanora Comfort and Margaret Murphy. He is survived by his daughter Colleen DePaolo, son Denis, grandson William DePaolo and sister Hannah. Matthew Funeral Hom
 STACK--John R. Mount Vernon Hospital and the entire Sound Shore Health System mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, John R. Stack, Esquire. Together with his family John was a steadfast supporter of Mount Vernon hospital for six years. John was a devoted member of the Bo
 CALLAGY--Robert M. The Board of Directors, executives and staff of William H. Sadlier, Inc. and the entire Sadlier community mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a wise, esteemed and trusted legal counselor and director for over 18 years, as well as a 
 CORWIN--Henry, M.D. It is with great sadness that the family of Hank Corwin of Weston, CT announces his death on November 28th. He was 89 years old and is survived by his wife, Betty, children, John, Pam, and Tom, and three grandchildren.       
 GREENE--Leonard Michael. November 30, 2006, age 88, of Mamaroneck, NY, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. A 1991 inductee into the National Inventors Hall of Fame, Greene patented hundreds of inventions, many integral to modern aviation, including the stall prevention devices t
 JONES--John, Haydn. Riverdale Country School extends its deepest sympathies to the family of former headmaster John Haydn Jones, father of Jeremy, Jeffery, Chris, Shami, and Jenny, as well as Moto Imai, and beloved grandfather of 12 and greatgrandfather of 3. John serviced as Riverdale's se
 LENOK--Paul. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly notes the passing of Paul Lenok, a distinguished and beloved member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife and to their entire family. Alan Schrager, President Board of Governors       
 MURPHY--Denis, November 28, 2006. Son of the late Denis and Hannah Barrow Murphy, brother of the late John, Richard, Mary Templeton, Hanora Comfort and Margaret Murphy. He is survived by his daughter Colleen DePaolo, son Denis, grandson William DePaolo and sister Hannah. Matthew Funeral Hom
 RAKOFF--Irving. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Irving Rakoff, a distinguished and beloved member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his entire family. Alan Schrager, President Board of Governors       
 STAMM--Julian Lawrence Dr. of Scarsdale, NY age 90 passed away on November 30th, 2006 due to heart failure. Beloved husband of Caryl, father of Patricia, Linda, and Cathy, grandfather of Jason, Jennifer, Justin, Ashley, Adam, and Alexis, father-inlaw of Jerry Kaufman, and John Willig, son o
 STUTMAN--Louis Age 94, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, Died Thursday, November 30th 2006. A World War II Veteran and former 1st Commander of the Milton L. Finel Post of the Jewish War Veterans. He began his NYPD career in the Legal Bureau, and was later Executive Secretary to Police Commission
 ZAWEL--Charles D. O.D., died on November 29, 2006, at his home in Salem, OR. He was born in Havanah, Cuba, on May 28, 1934. He lived in the Bronx, NY, until 1953. He is survived by his former wife Phyllis, and his current wife Joan. He is predeceased by his wife Miriam, and his son Michael.
 Roy Newell, a painter of geometric abstracts and one of the original members of the American Abstract Expressionists, died on Nov. 22 in Manhattan. He was 92. The cause was cancer, said Anne Cohen, his wife. Mr. Newell was a vivid colorist, dedicating himself to creating clo
 Don Butterfield, a tuba player whose virtuosity helped to popularize the use of his instrument in jazz, died on Monday in Cedar Grove, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Clifton. The cause was a stroke-related illness, said his stepson, Brian Nalepka. A classically trained tubist, 
 Elliot Welles, a Holocaust survivor who spent the years after World War II as a tireless hunter of Nazis, starting with the man who murdered his mother, died on Tuesday at his home in the Bronx. He was 79. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his son, Mark, said. For more 
 ADATTO--Carl Perahya M.D died at his residence on Wednesday, November 22, 2006. Beloved husband of Adele Levy Adatto, father of Dr. Kenneth N. Adatto (Be-Be) of New Orleans, LA, Carol Adatto Nelson (Eric) of Houston, TX, Phyllis Adatto Smith (Tim) of Houston, TX, brother of Jennie A. Tarabu
 ANDRESEN--Malcolm, 89 died from natural causes on Monday, November 27, 2006 at New York Presbyterian Hospital surrounded by his wife and friends. Born in Medford, WI on July 26, 1917, he received his Law degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1941 and was admitted to the Bar (Wisconsin 
 BESSO--Victor. My beloved husband, my darling, mi amore, my world. You will always be in my heart. Nidia $(6$)BESSO--Victor. We will always remember your love, guidance and sense of humor. Alina, Jack, Scarlett and Jasmine Taylor. $(6$)BESSO--Victor 81, passed away November 23, 2006. Retire
 CALLAGY--Robert M. The Board of Directors, executives and staff of William H. Sadlier, Inc. and the entire Sadlier community mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a wise, esteemed and trusted legal counselor and director for over 18 years, as well as a 
 CUZZE--Frank J, Jr., 93, September 13, 2006, in Las Vegas, NV. He spent his early career in the New York area, holding a variety of jobs, all involving fixing and maintaining useful technologies. During World War 2, his expertise as a vessel diesel mechanic, earned him a critical-worker des
 DIXON--Ross William, dearest beloved husband of Maeve and adored father of Annelies and Sioban, died Thursday November 23rd, 2006 in his La Jolla home. A memorial service will be held at St. James Episcopal Church by the Sea, 743 Prospect Street, La Jolla, on December 9th at 3 pm.       
 DONEGAN--Martin. Actor, director, playwright, and teacher of the stagecraft he loved, died unexpectedly at Manhattan's Mt Sinai Hospital November 20. Beloved husband of Margaret Golightly and father of Ellen Donegan, he is also mourned by his sister, Marcella Seeley, and the children of his
 EARLE--Henry Dr., Optometrist formerly of Maplewood, N.J. died November 6, 2006. A visionary and inventor, he was a pioneer in developing plastic lenses. He was described as ''a unique blend of optical expert, technician, psychologist and astute businessman'' (optical Management March 1984)
 EPSTEIN--Sherman, on December 2nd, 2006, beloved husband of Phyllis, loving father of Dan, Martin, Debra. Adoring grandfather of Jake and Eliana, brother of Melvin. Service Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Ave. $(6$)EPSTEIN--Sherman. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns t
 GALLETTA--Claudia Black, 90, of Ansonia CT, formerly of Old Westbury, NY. Born October 3, 1916 died on November 24, 2006. Beloved wife of Mario (Mal) Galletta, Loving mother of Malcolm and his wife Claire, and Claudia Mirante. Loving grandmother of Arthur Mirante, Claudia O'Regan, Malcolm a
 GREENE--Leonard Michael. November 30, 2006, age 88, of Mamaroneck, NY, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. A 1991 inductee into the National Inventors Hall of Fame, Greene patented hundreds of inventions, many integral to modern aviation, including the stall prevention devices t
 GREY--Gerald, known as ''Jerry'', born December 23, 1924 peacefully passed away in his Rancho Mirage home on November 30 surrounded by the love of his family. A native New Yorker, Jerry spent his last years living in Rancho Mirage, CA and his beloved home on Fire Island, NY. Loving husband 
 KENNEDY--Robert, Chesebrough. The Trustees of the New York City Marble Cemetery wish to express their condolences to the family of Robert Chesebrough Kennedy and their gratitude for his many years of service to the cemetery.       
 LUNTZ--Lloyd, November 22, 2006. Beloved son of Perry Luntz, Carol Rinzler and the late Edith Lieberman Luntz, brother of Ira Luntz and Jackie Snyder-Luntz, Russell Luntz and Lisa DiGennaro, uncle of Ari and Eli Luntz. Warm friend to his extended Philadelphia family. A bright light extingui
 MASLOW--Irving, November 30, 2006, beloved husband of the late Florence, devoted father of Sheryl and Bart, Robert, Harris and Sharon, Gail and David, Adam and Shari, cherished grandfather of Dana, Debra, Daniel, Matthew, Jennifer, Arielle and Dov, Jonathan, Elana, Joshua and Aliza. He was 
 MATTHERS--William J., Reverend. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Bill, father of James Matthers, Atlantic's General Manager. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Bill's wife Dinah, his daughter Jane and husband John, son Jim and wife Laura, daughters Jill and Anne, and his many g
 MURPHY--Denis, November 28, 2006. Son of the late Denis and Hannah Barrow Murphy, brother of the late John, Richard, Mary Templeton, Hanora Comfort and Margaret Murphy. He is survived by his daughter Colleen DePaolo, son Denis, grandson William DePaolo and sister Hannah.       
 NORWICK--Robert. Retired Advertising Executive passed away on November 22nd, 2006. He is survived by his children Jennifer and Marc, his mother Blanche, his sister Diana Becker, and former wife Alice. He began his career at E.T. Howard in New York City, and finally at his own company Norwic
 SIERANT--Wasyl. The Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) Foundation of NYC extends our deepest sympathy to our esteemed Board Chairman Edward Rappa, his wife Tamara, and their children on the passing of their beloved father-in-law, father and grandfather. Our heartfelt condolences. Alan D
 SINCOFF--Benjamin, Rabbi, Dr. Died on Thursday, November 23, second day of Kislev, almost 89. Well known pulpit Rabbi on Long Island, Queens and Brooklyn for six decades, Mohel, Hebrew School Principal. Extraordinary zest for life and people. His love of Yiddishkeit, anything Jewish, was hi
 STUTMAN--Louis Age 94, of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, Died Thursday, November 30th 2006. A World War II Veteran and former 1st Commander of the Milton L. Finel Post of the Jewish War Veterans. He began his NYPD career in the Legal Bureau, and was later Executive Secretary to Police Commission
 THATCHER--John M. P. III of Greenwich, CT and Edgartown, MA died on November 26, 2006 in Florida. Terry was the beloved husband of the late Marguerite Funston Thatcher, and was the devoted father of Peggy, Katherine, John M. P. IV and Christina. He is survived by his loving family, his pare
 TROW--George W.S. Legions of old friends will always remember the infectious humor, outrageous sense of fun, sharp powers of observation and prodigious talent of one who has left them too soon. From school days throughout a long distinguished literary career, George spread mirth through wri
 WEINBERG--Nathan, Self help Community Services is deeply saddened by the passing of Nathan Weinberg, a philanthropic leader whose kindness and generosity has enriched the lives of thousands of individuals through the good works of The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation. Thanks to Mr. We
 YARUSS--Harry G., December 5, 1986. We honor his memory. Lovingly remembered by his family.       
 Leonard Freed, a prominent photojournalist and member of the Magnum Photography Collective who was known primarily for his in-depth coverage of African-Americans in the era of the civil rights movement, died on Wednesday at his home in Garrison, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was recent 
 CALLAGY--Robert M. The Board of Directors, executives and staff of William H. Sadlier, Inc. and the entire Sadlier community mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague Robert M. Callagy. Bob was a wise, esteemed and trusted legal counselor and director for over 18 years, as well as a 
 GREENE--Leonard. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Leonard Greene and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 KAMINS--Walter born December 27, 1922 in New York City, died December 2, 2006. Devoted and beloved husband; adoring father, grandfather and father-in-law; cherished uncle, and brotherin-law. His is survived by his wife of 57 years Judith (Weisz) Kamins, daughters and sons-in-law Toni Kamins
 SURKS--Sylvan, M.D. (Nathan) December 1, 2006. The Held family mourns the passing of their beloved uncle Sy. He had a profound influence on the lives of his nephews and will be remembered for his love, intelligence and sense of humor. As a pioneer in the field of Anesthesiology, Dr. Surks w
 HAUPTMAN--Benjamin A wonderful human being and our dear friend. We will miss you. Leah and Harry. $(6$)HAUPTMAN--Benjamin Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, N.Y., mourns the passing of our former president and devoted member Benjamin Hauptman. Our heartfelt condolences to his famil
 SILVERSTEIN--Philip Joseph, died at his home on Saturday, December 2nd, 2006 with his daughters by his side. Philip was born on November 8th, 1934 to Lisa and Herman Silverstein. He is survived by his children Mindy and Howard Kaufman, Shareen and Charles Rappoport and his grandchildren Dan
 Tom Fexas, the innovative motor yacht designer whose famous Midnight Lace design inspired a shift to retro Italian styling for modern luxury boats, died Wednesday in Stuart, Fla. He was 65. His death was confirmed by his niece Elisa Casas. The cause was not yet known; he had been ho
 ALTMAN--Stanley J. Beloved husband of Doris Altman, died at White Plains Hospital on December 1, 2006, after a long illness. Born at home in 1918 during the flu pandemic, he was the first in his family to attend college. He married Doris Greengold in 1943, just before he served overseas as 
 BASS--Frank M. Dr. Frank M. Bass, often called the Father of Marketing Science, died on December 1, 2006 at his home. At age 79, he was in his 25th year as a professor of marketing science in the School of Management at the University of Texas at Dallas. Professor Bass' research and that of
 CALLAGY--Robert M. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Robert M. Callagy, a member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith IV, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian       
 GOOS--Phillip. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Phillip Goos. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 HALL--Paul S. on December 3rd, 2006, age 86. During World War II, he served as assistant military attache in Moscow, achieving the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He leaves a loving family; his wife, Dorothy, sons, Michael and Randy, and sister, Amy Bronstein. Services at Plaza Jewish Community
 KYRIAKOS--Very Rev. Peter N. on December 3, 2006. Father Peter, a Model of a true servant of God and His People is survived by his devoted wife of 54 years Kay (nee Kaloutsi) of Tarrytown, NY. Loving father of Nicholas and Vicki Kyriakos of Greenwich, CT, Linda and Mario Faustini of Purchas
 LINDEN--Murray, pianist, music teacher, and champion of light opera. He trained at the Juilliard School, and served as a medic during WWII. During his years at the Bronxville Schools, he conducted the entire repertoire of Gilbert and Sullivan. Upon retirement, he directed the Troopers Light
 MANDELBLATT--Adam, of Manhasset at 83 years. Holocaust survivor and business owner in the garment industry for over 45 years. He is survived by his devoted wife Irene, his loving children, Beverly and Alan Berson, Steven and Lauren Mandel, and his adoring grandchildren; Jason, Jennifer, Whi
 McNAIR--Malcolm of Glen Cove, NY on December 2nd, 2006. ''A True Gentleman.'' Executive Vice President in Charge of Real Estate Banking; graduate AMP, Harvard Business School 1969; BA in Economics Ohio University Magna Cum Laude 1950; elected to Phi Beta Kappa 1950. Served in the US Navy du
 MENDELSON--Irving. Passed away peacefully in his 86th year on December 3, 2006. Beloved husband, father, brother, grandfather and great-grandfather. A friend to many. He was an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania (W '41). Donations can be made in his honor to the University of Pennsyl
 NADLER--Joseph Y. Peacefully, in his 94th year, on Saturday December 2nd, 2006. Born in Montreal, Joseph (Yossel) Nadler was an active member of the Outremont civic and Montreal Jewish communities: he was President of the Outremont Citizens' Association and the Sons of Israel, a longstandin
 SIEGEL--Robert I., age 79, of Weston, CT. Died November 30th, 2006 of Cardiac Amyloidosis. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle. B.A. Cornell University, 1948; JD NYU Law School, 1959. Vice President and General Counsel, Competitive Technologies, formerly University Patents 
 WELLES--Elliot. The Anti Defamation League mourns the passing of our longtime colleague and friend, Elliot Welles. For three decades as Director of ADL's Task Force on Nazi War Criminals, Elliot, a survivor of the Riga Ghetto, was dedicated to seeking justice for Holocaust victims. We exten
 BERLINGERI--Vincenzo on December 2, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Noushie, loving father of Andrea and Alexei, cherished brother of Paolo, Maria Cesari, Lugi, and the late Nicolo, loving brother-in-law of Patricia Teymourtache, devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Isabella, and Nicolino. H
 Ray T. Parfet Jr., the last member of the Upjohn family to lead its namesake pharmaceutical company in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he also started a minor-league hockey franchise, died Nov. 27 in Kalamazoo. He was 84. The cause was acute respiratory distress syndrome, said his son, Dona
 Robert Volpe, a painter with a flowing mustache who gained street smarts chasing drug smugglers as a police officer and then put those skills to use as the New York City Police Department's one-man art-theft squad in the 1970s, died on Nov. 28 at his home on Staten Island. He was 63.       
 BLAKE--Peter, 86, on December 5th, 2006. Architect, critic, editor, teacher. He is survived by his sister, Madi Lanier, daughter, Christina Oliver, son, Casey Nelson Blake, five grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, one nephew and one niece. A memorial service will be held in the New Year
 BLANK--Milton K. The membership and Board of Governors of Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed former member Milton K. Blank and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Esther and their family. David C. Bube
 GREENSPAN--Saul, 92, of Manchester, NH, died peacefully on December 3, 2006. He was born in New York City in 1914 to Annie and Henry Greenspan. He earned his BA at Columbia College in 1935. In 1937 he moved to Manchester where he founded Waumbec Mills, Inc. and served as its President. Mr. 
 JORDAN-Paul Born Krakow, Poland, November 24, 1916; died November 7, 2006. Jordan, who lived in Lvov, Poland until World War II, was a Renaissance man whose interests were political, global, philosophical, humanitarian, and artistic. He attended the London School of Economics. He became a J
 KOCH--Robert P., 62, lost a year-long battle with cancer and passed away with his family by his side on December 2nd, 2006. Resident of Westbury, NY and Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by Jeanne, his wife of 6 years, his children Bernadine (John), Christine (David), Kevin (Pamela), and Dan
 LEVY--Julius, died peacefully in his sleep at the age of 93. Jules, as he was called by most, had a wonderful life. He found love with the beautiful Jane Frederick and they spent more than 50 years together until her death in 2002. They enjoyed summer vacations in Mingo Springs, Maine and l
 MANDELBLATT--Adam, of Manhasset at 83 years. Holocaust survivor and business owner in the garment industry for over 45 years. He is survived by his devoted wife Irene, his loving children, Beverly and Alan Berkson, Steven and Lauren Mandel, and his adoring grandchildren; Jason, Jennifer, Wh
 MENDELSON--Irving. Passed away peacefully in his 86th year on December 3, 2006. Beloved husband, father, brother, grandfather and great-grandfather. A friend to many. He was an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania (W '41). Donations can be made in his honor to the University of Pennsyl
 NADLER--Joseph Y. Peacefully, in his 94th year, on Saturday December 2nd, 2006. Born in Montreal, Joseph (Yossel) Nadler was an active member of the Outremont civic and Montreal Jewish communities: he was President of the Outremont Citizens' Association and the Sons of Israel, a longstandin
 RASHKIS--Jerome. Born in Brooklyn August 6, 1919. Died peacefully at home with family December 1, 2006. Predeceased by Libby, his wife of 63 years. Beloved by daughters, Judith Romiti and Susan Gomez and his sons in law, grandchildren Gregory and Elianne Lippertz, Russell Diez-Canseco and g
 RIPPS--Richard Jay. 65, died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on Monday, December 4th. Father, husband, brother, uncle, stepfather, friend, he will be greatly missed. A funeral service will be held Wednesday December 6th at 11 am, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. $(6$)RIPP
 SAXL--Sherman. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of over 50 years, while we are thankful for his life. As a fellow Law Clerk to a Federal Judge, Fellow Assistant U.S. Attorney, and esteemed Fellow Member of the Bar, Sherman earned the high reputation he had. Most important, his love for 
 VERNON--Richard. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of our dear friend and colleague, bass Richard Vernon, who sang 796 performances with our company. From the time of his Metropolitan debut in the premiere of ''Parade,'' on February 20, 1981, until his sudden death this past 
 BERLINGERI--Vincenzo on December 2, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Noushie, loving father of Andrea and Alexei, cherished brother of Paolo, Maria Cesari, Lugi, and the late Nicolo, loving brother-in-law of Patricia Teymourtache, devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Isabella, and Nicolino. H
 BERNSTROM--Richard S., died November 26, 2006, in Stockholm, Sweden. He was born September 27, 1941, in Paris and was the father of Sven Erik Bernstrom of Newport, R.I. A Memorial Service will be held at a date to be announced.       
 Peter Blake, an architect, critic and former editor of Architectural Forum who was known for his lively critiques of Modernism and his friendships with artists, died yesterday at a hospice near his home in Branford, Conn. He was 86. The cause was complications from a respiratory inf
 Arthur Shimkin, a Grammy Award-winning producer of children's records, including Hans Christian Andersen fairy tales and ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer'' -- sung, appropriately enough, by Jimmy Durante (the ''Schnozzola'') -- died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The ca
 David Bronstein, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster who played bold and intuitive chess, wrote one of the classics in chess literature and came within one draw of becoming world champion, died on Tuesday in Minsk, Belarus. He was 82. His death was reported by the World Chess Federation. N
 Kenneth M. Taylor, an Army Air Corps pilot who joined with a fellow flier to become the first two American pilots aloft during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the first to shoot down Japanese planes, died Nov. 25 in Tucson. He was 86. The cause was a strangulated hernia, sai
 BORNSTEIN--David, husband of the late beloved Evelyn, father of Dorie Cohen and Harold A. Bornstein, cherished grandfather of Jonathon and Evan Cohen, and great-grandfather of Katie, Kevin, and Roman. He will be greatly missed.       
 DAUMAN--Irving L, 83, formerly of New York City, died on December 5, 2006 in Rocky Hill, CT. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Joan Ernst Dauman.       
 GREENWALD--Adrian. Born May 15, 1918 and died Dec. 1, 2006. Loving husband of Augusta Berlfein Greenwald for 62 years; father of Randi Greenwald (Lowell Turnbull); grandfather of Ian and Derek Turnbull; brother of Burton (Geraldine) Greenwald. Interment at Arlington National Cemetery on Dec
 JACOBSON--Alan J., 88, passed away peacefully surrounded by family Monday, December 4th. He is survived by his loving family, wife of 53 years Jeanne R. Jacobson, two daughters, two son-inlaws and four grandchildren. He was preceded in death by brother Walter. WWII veteran, lifelong residen
 KOCH--Robert P., 62, lost a year-long battle with cancer and passed away with his family by his side on December 2nd, 2006. Resident of Westbury, NY and Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by Jeanne, his wife of 6 years, his children Bernadine (John), Christine (David), Kevin (Pamela), and Dan
 LEVY--Julius, died peacefully in his sleep at the age of 93. Jules, as he was called by most, had a wonderful life. He found love with the beautiful Jane Frederick and they spent more than 50 years together until her death in 2002. They enjoyed summer vacations in Mingo Springs, Maine and l
 MENDECKI--Jozef. Ph.D. December 4th, 2006. Dr. Mendecki was born in Poland and came to the U.S. as a distinguished Fullbright Fellow. In 1971, he joined the Department of Radiation Oncology at Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, as a research scientist in the fie
 SAXL--Sherman. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of over 50 years, while we are thankful for his life. As a fellow Law Clerk to a Federal Judge, Fellow Assistant U.S. Attorney, and esteemed Fellow Member of the Bar, Sherman earned the high reputation he had. Most important, his love for 
 SHIMKIN--Arthur. Children's Record Pioneer Arthur Shimkin (84 years old) passed away under the full moon on Monday, December 4th, at 7:35 pm in his NYC home with his loving family around him. He will be buried at Fort Hill Cemetery in Montauk, NY on Thursday, December 7th. The family will b
 SZULWACH--John. The Horace Mann School deeply mourns the passing of John Szulwach, our former beloved colleague and long time History teacher/administrator at HM's Lower Division for over 25 years. John's optimism, his commitment to the annual Williamsburg trip for sixth graders and his pra
 WEINBERG--Edward H., of Mamaroneck, died December 6, 2006, at age 86. Born November 6, 1920 to Harold and Anna (nee Masliansky) Weinberg, he served in the U.S. Army Air Force in the European Theater during WWII and was a Captain and Intelligence Officer with the 56th Fighter Squadron. He wa
 WEISS--Louis. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our Past President and Honorary Trustee. His legacy of leadership continues to impact our congregation. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his daughter Joan Digby, his son Norman Weiss and their families. May h
 WIENER--Henry -Toni, Our thoughts are with you and the children as you grieve the loss of your beloved, Hank. We will all miss him. Lyn and Michael Paul Ilene and Stan Barshay Marilyn and Howard Weisler Carol and Stanley Weinstock Danny Reich $(6$)WIENER--Henry T. Our most loyal and
 George B. Tindall, a noted historian of the American South, died on Saturday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 85. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter, Blair Tindall, said. At his death, Professor Tindall was Kenan professor emeritus of history at the
 Johnnie B. Hunt, who built a nationwide freight-hauling empire after calculating that driving a single transport truck was rather less profitable than owning and managing thousands of them, died Thursday. He was 79. His company announced his death. A family spokesman said Mr. Hunt h
 GREENE--Louis Leon, Devoted husband and father, family partiarch, dentist, inventor, and free spirit passed away peacefully on Wednesday, December 6th. He was married for 63 years to the love of his life Sarah (Shenk) Greene who passed away four months ago to the day. Born on September 5th,
 MANDELBAUM--Leon, one of the prominent legends in the garment industry died Wednesday, December 6th, 2006 at his home in Maplewood, NJ with his family by his side. He was 86. Mr. Mandelbaum grew up in Brooklyn, NY and was an all city scholarship football player for Boys High in Brooklyn. He
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Robert Rosenblum, distinguished curator, eminent scholar, beloved professor, and friend to so many. Since 1996, Robert was the Stephen and Nan Swid Curator of TwentiethCentury
 STEINGLASS--Sally, age 101. Died December 7th. Loving wife of the late Charles Steinglass; devoted mother of Arthur Steinglass and Rosalyn Komaroff; dear mother-inlaw of Rita Steinglass and Stanley Komaroff; beloved grandmother of Cheryl and Gary Scheige, Stacey and Steve Kaye, Andrew and M
 SURKS--Sy. Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Medical Center is saddened by the loss of Sy Surks, M.D. Dr. Surks was one of LIJ's original medical staff members when it opened in 1954 and served as the hospital's Chairman of Anesthesiology for 25 years. His contributions to LIJ and to our patients wi
 WEINBERG--Edward. The Westchester Jewish Center deeply mourns the death of our Honorary Trustee, past President and past Chairman of our Foundation Trustees, Edward Weinberg, and extends our sympathy to his entire family. He set a standard of leadership that we strive to follow. May his fam
 WIENER--Henry -Toni, Our thoughts are with you and the children as you grieve the loss of your beloved, Hank. We will all miss him. Lyn and Michael Paul Ilene and Stan Barshay Marilyn and Howard Weisler Carol and Stanley Weinstock Danny Reich $(6$)WIENER--Henry T. Beloved brother of
 ZAHN--John H., of Piermont, NY. Son of John and Irene Zahn. Passed away on December 5th, 2006 at the age of 73. John served four years as the Mayor for the Village of Piermont and nine years as a Village Trustee. John is survived by his wife, Janet M. Zahn, four children and six grandchildr
 ZIMMER--Lee, actor, age 83, died December 3rd at home with his devoted wife Betty at his side. Born December 10th, 1923 in Newark, NJ. Graduate of the University of North Carolina, Navy veteran of the first wave at Omaha Beach, World War II. Lived in Paris from 1949-1951, in plays, movies a
 RUBENSTEIN--Lawrence, 63, of Lake Worth Florida on December 6th, after a long and courageous battle with abdominal cancer. Beloved husband of Ronnie (nee Jossen), loving father of Jill and David, cherished brother of Judith Leitner, proud brother-inlaw and devoted uncle and great-uncle. Acc
 VARTANIAN--Raymond Julian, 73, of Culebra, Puerto Rico and Nyack, NY on December 2, 2006. Loving father to Amanda, Lia, Jessica, and Hilary, brother to Elissa grandfather ''Gandhi'' to Alexander Julian, father-inlaw to Andy and Bob. The 1953 New Jersey State Track champion for the broad jum
 Jay McShann, a jazz pianist known for his hard-driving, bluesy style but probably best known for giving Charlie Parker his first big break, died Thursday in Kansas City, Mo. He was 90, according to most sources (including Mr. McShann himself and his family), but 97 according to some others.
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Pollock-Krasner Foundation is devastated at the loss of our beloved friend and colleague Robert Rosenblum, whose advice and caring for the well-being of artists was so inspirational and deeply appreciated. We shall miss terribly his warmth, compassion, insight and hum
 SCHECK--Gerard. Beloved husband of Bonnie. Devoted father of Adam, Andrew, Todd, and father-in-law to Ali and Karen. Brother to Jules and the late Harvey Scheck. Gary will be missed by his family and friends who adored his larger than life personality and Joe Torre looks. He devoted much pa
 STEINGLASS--Sally, age 101. Died December 7th. Loving wife of the late Charles Steinglass; devoted mother of Arthur Steinglass and Rosalyn Komaroff; dear mother-inlaw of Rita Steinglass and Stanley Komaroff; beloved grandmother of Cheryl and Gary Scheige, Stacey and Steve Kaye, Andrew and M
 WHEELER--Edwin J. The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. notes with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished member, Edwin J. Wheeler, on December 7, 2006. He was a member of the Investment and Audit Committee and a Co-chair of the Scholarship Committee. He was dedicated a
 Robert Rosenblum, an influential and irreverent art historian and museum curator known for his research on subjects ranging from Picasso to images of dogs, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 79. He died from complications of colon cancer, said his wife, the a
 Van Smith, who was admiringly called both an artist and a terrorist for the costumes and makeup he designed for the films of John Waters, died on Tuesday at his home in Marianna, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. An early exponent of the trash ae
 BUSCH--Alfred E. Age 92, died peacefully at home on December 5th. He was born in 1914 in Riga, Latvia and was raised in Koenigsburg, East Prussia. He came to the United States to attend MIT from which he graduated in 1937. Most of Alfred's business career was spent at K&E (Keuffel and Esser
 CHERESKIN--Lowell. Born January 9, 1935 in Brooklyn New York, son of Tessie and Benjamin Chereskin, died in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital on December 3, 2006. Attended Lafayette High School in Brooklyn where he was a star football player. Won a scholarship to University of South Carolina, 
 DIXON--Courtlandt Palmer Jr of Old Lyme, CT and formerly of Lawrence, LI, NY, died on November 30, 2006. He graduated from St. Paul's School, Concord, NH and Yale University, where he was a member of the celebrated Wiffenpoof Glee Club, in 1939. He served as a Lieutenant in the Navy during 
 GARST--James D. The Board of Directors and membership of the Mitchell-Lama Council mourn the passing of James D. Garst. He was a member of the Council's Board of Directors and its legislative representative for more than thirty years. He was a tireless and authoritative advocate for the cau
 KEADY--Michael Patrick, 48, of River Vale, NJ passed away on Friday, December 1st, 2006. Beloved husband to Regina Keady; devoted father to Alexander Keady. Son of Marcia and Charles. Brother of Timothy and Mitchell. A graduate of Syracuse University, he was currently Director of Global Tra
 KRAUS--David E, 86, formerly of Rye, New York, passed away suddenly on December 6th, in Palm Desert, California. Dr. Kraus served in the Submarine Service during World War II, and practiced optometry in New Jersey and California for over 50 years. His son Edward predeceased him, as did his 
 LEE--Ernest (Ernie), 54, of New York City, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on December 6, 2006. Mr. Lee was born, in New Brunswick, New Jersey and lived in Tribeca, New York City, since 1976. For the past 12 years, he was the office manager for the Midtown medical practice of Dr. Edward Goldber
 LINDEN--Murray, pianist, music teacher, and champion of light opera. He trained at the Juilliard School, and served as a medic during WWII. During his years at the Bronxville Schools, he conducted the entire repertoire of Gilbert and Sullivan. Upon retirement, he directed the Troopers Light
 MANDELBAUM--Leon, one of the prominent legends in the garment industry died Wednesday, December 6th, 2006 at his home in Maplewood, NJ with his family by his side. He was 86. Mr. Mandelbaum grew up in Brooklyn, NY and was an all city scholarship football player for Boys High in Brooklyn. He
 MORLAN--Donald W., Reverend on November 23, 2006 of complications from Leukemia. Son of the late Lona Elliott and Clarence E. Morlan. Born in Odessa, TX, May 28, 1940. Don graduated in 1958 from Carter Riverside High School in Fort Worth and from Ottawa University, Ottawa, KS in 1962. He re
 PROSKAUER--Henry G. Beloved son of the late Dr. Curt and Erna Proskauer and very dear brother of Dr. Paul F. Proskauer. Passed away on December 6th, 2006 at the age of 91. Henry was born in Breslau, Germany he studied architecture at the ETH in Zurich, Switzerland from 1935 to 1939 and came
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Pollock-Krasner Foundation is devastated at the loss of our beloved friend and colleague Robert Rosenblum, whose advice and caring for the well-being of artists was so inspirational and deeply appreciated. We shall miss terribly his warmth, compassion, insight and hum
 SCHECK--Gary. We mourn the loss of our partner of 25 years and co-worker of United Sales. We extend our sincerest condolences to the Scheck family. We will always have Gary in our hearts. $(6$)SCHECK--Gerard. Beloved husband of Bonnie. Devoted father of Adam, Andrew, Todd, and fathe
 SIEGEL--Robert I., age 79, of Weston, CT. Died November 30th, 2006 of cardiac amyloidosis. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle. B.A. Cornell University, 1948; JD NYU Law School, 1959. Vice President and General Counsel, Competitive Technologies, formerly University Patents 
 SOLBERT--Alan Goodrich Kirk, born April 9, 1950 died unexpectedly on November 30, 2006. He is survived by his wife H. Marion Solbert, children Victoria E. C. Solbert, Kevan Samsam and Shayan Samsam; mother, Deborah K. Solbert; siblings Leslie Solbert Fogg, Elizabeth SolbertSheldon, Alison S
 SOLOMON--Harvey. The Members of the Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of East End Hospice and the East End Open Tennis Committee extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of our devoted friend and supporter, Harvey Solomon, upon his untimely death. Our sincere condolences to his loving
 STEINGLASS--Sally, age 101. Died December 7th. Loving wife of the late Charles Steinglass; devoted mother of Arthur Steinglass and Rosalyn Komaroff; dear mother-inlaw of Rita Steinglass and Stanley Komaroff; beloved grandmother of Cheryl and Gary Scheige, Stacey and Steve Kaye, Andrew and M
 VERNON--Richard Sherman. Beloved Metropolitan Opera singer, Richard Sherman Vernon, age 53, died unexpectedly at his home on December 2, 2006. Mr. Vernon, bass, was a year-round resident artist with the Metropolitan Opera at Lincoln Center in New York City since 1980, debuting in Satie's Pa
 WEINBERG--Edward. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the passing of Edward Weinberg, who had a long and distinguished history of service to the American Jewish community, and especially to the HIAS, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, for which he served on the Board of Directors from 1963 
 WIENER--Henry T. (Hank), ''America's Sweetheart''. Beloved husband of Toni. Most devoted father of Mindy and Michael, Scott and Lisa, Elizabeth and fiancee Jeffrey, and Andrew. Dear brother of Bill, adored grandfather of Adam, Jacob, Nathaniel, and Benjamin. Cherished by his extended family
 KRITCHEVSKY--David. The Strang Clinical Nutrition Research Unit (CNRU) mourns loss of David Kritchevsky, Chair, External Advisors. Eminence grise, widely respected, generous with time and advice, admired for his wit as well as his erudition. R. Rivlin, M.D.CNRU Director       
 PEARLSTEIN--Justin (Jake), died unexpectedly on December 5, 2006. Husband of Carol, ''Big Daddy'' to his children Robin, Donald and Justin Jr., former Chief, Woodmere Fire Department, member over 60 years. A man of integrity and our hero.       
 STEWART--James W., born December 10, 1914. Beloved father and grandfather. Former Commander, Seventh Regiment NYC, WWII Veteran, lifelong employee Metropolitan Life. A man of loyalty, honor, integrity, he taught by example each day of his 91 years. Deeply missed on his 92nd birthday.       
 Sid Raymond, a jowly, jocular Edward G. Robinson look-alike who fell in love with show business in the Catskills, then did everything from beer commercials to Broadway to giving voice to a very big duck, died on Dec. 1 in Aventura, Fla. He was 97. His family said he died from compli
 Gen. Augusto Pinochet Ugarte, the brutal dictator who repressed and reshaped Chile for nearly two decades and became a notorious symbol of human rights abuse and corruption, died yesterday at the Military Hospital of Santiago. He was 91. Dr. Juan Ignacio Vergara, head of the medical
 FEINMAN--Saul, S., age 91. Beloved husband of Faye. Adoring father of Michael. Loving brother and brotherin-law to Natalie and Joe Kriveloff, Robert and Frances Feinman. Cherished uncle and great-uncle. He enriched the lives of all those he touched. With much appreciation to his family and 
 NAGLE--Dennis. On December 8th, 2006 of Whiting, NJ formerly the Bronx. Husband of Karen Argenti, brother of Cornelius and his wife Geraldine, Patrick and his wife Jane, the late John and his wife the late Katherine, brother-in-law of Doreen Argenti. The funeral mass Tuesday 11am at St. Mar
 ROSENBERG--Martin. Age 75. On Friday December 8th, 2006. Martin Rosenberg formally of Long Beach, New York. Beloved husband of Ilene Rosenberg. Devoted father of Michael Rosenberg of Jacksonville Florida, and Nicole Thomas of Olney Maryland. Loving grandfather of Kenneth and Samantha Rosenb
 TODD--Ralph, 88 years young. Beloved husband of Bea, devoted father of Andi, Randy and Bruce, loving grandfather of Evan, Jessica and Amy, cherished brother of Marvin, and caring fatherin-law of Harold and Marcy. Charismatic and inspirational, he lived life with intensity and zest. Careers 
 Leonard M. Greene, an inventor who developed an instrument to warn pilots when their planes were about to stall and who sold more than half a million of the devices over six decades, died Nov. 30. He was 88 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The cause was complications from lung cancer, 
 Mario Llerena, a Cuban intellectual who was an early representative of Fidel Castro in the United States but who broke with him before he took power because of Mr. Castro's shift toward Communism, died Sunday in Miami. He was 93. His daughter, Stella Portada, said yesterday that he 
 BRICKMAN-Seymour. The Board of Directors and Staff of NY Psychotherapy and Counseling Center mourn the passing of Rabbi Seymour Brickman on December 10, 2006. Seymour served with distinction for the past 25 years as a member of our Board of Directors, including the past 15 years as Presiden
 DILLON--Raymond, W. Sr., of Manhasset, NY on December 10, 2006. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Kuhlmann), loving father of Patricia Ann, Raymond W. Jr., Mary Dillon Reynolds, Maureen and Gerald Michael. Also survived by six grandchildren, sisters Patricia Darrell and Aveline Christie. Pre
 GREENLAW--Robert, 89, of Georgetown, Maine on December 9, 2006. Born in Boston, Massachusetts, he lived in Five Island, Maine before moving to Georgetown, Maine 11 years ago. Prior to his retirement he was Executive Vice-President of American Home Products Corporation in New York City from 
 MASS--Alvin (Al), passed away at home on December 10th after a long but valiant battle with Melanoma. He is survived by his wife Barbara, daughters Zannah and Rachel, son-in-law Aaron, niece Marian, grand-niece Talia, sister Madeline and a huge circle of friends and extended family. He will
 McBEE--Ruth. The Sixteenth Street Synagogue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our President, Richard McBee and extends to him and his family our heartfelt condolences.       
 MILLS--Victor Moore. Born October 27, 1919, died at home in Roxbury, Connecticut on December 4. After the Navy, he worked for the United Nations from 1946 until 1982. His U.N. career included assignments in Ghana, Israel, Cyprus, and Italy. He attended Swarthmore College and Harvard Busines
 RIOS--Charles M. on December 11, 2006 at age 74. Beloved husband of Della FrazierRios. Loving father of Elizabeth (Joseph), Charles (Silvia), and Christine (Eric). Adored grandfather of Matthew, Daniel, Kimberly, Kevin, Sofia, Gregory, and Carlos. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Hom
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Trustees and Staff of the Dahesh Museum of Art mourn the death of Dr. Robert Rosenblum, a longtime friend and colleague, whose scholarly and curatorial contributions reshaped how we understand 19th-century art. $(6$)ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Andy Warhol Foundatio
 SPOSATO--Anthony J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Anthony J. Sposato, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith IV, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian  
 TODD--Ralph, 88 years young. Beloved husband of Bea, devoted father of Andi, Randy and Bruce, loving grandfather of Evan, Jessica and Amy, cherished brother of Marvin, and caring fatherin-law of Harold and Marcy. Charismatic and inspirational, he lived life with intensity and zest. Careers 
 Ralph Gomberg, the former principal oboist who held sway at the Boston Symphony while his brother Harold did the same, on the same instrument, at the New York Philharmonic, died on Saturday. He was 85 and lived in Concord, Mass. His death, at a hospice in Whelan, Mass., resulted fro
 J. Keith Mann, a Stanford University law professor who negotiated labor disputes for three presidents and wrote a report for the United States Supreme Court that led to the protection of Alaskan barrier islands from oil drilling, died Nov. 27 in Stanford, Calif. He was 82. The cause
 HUDSON--Dennis D. Emeritus Professor of World Religions at Smith College, died Sunday at his home in Northampton, MA. He was one of the foremost scholars of the religions of India, noted especially for his interpretation of the Vaikunta Perumal Temple at Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu. He loved co
 PARADISE--Melvin Harry. December 27 1916 -December 2, 2006 of heart failure. Mel was a man for all times. He related to everyone, young and old, and had an energy and vitality that spoke to who he was. No one could not be affected by a Mel encounter. He was born and raised in New York City 
 POMERANCE--Jerome J., 66. Died December 12th, 2006 of Melanoma. His wife Fredi, daughter and son-in-law Janice and Yoji Nimura, and grandchildren Clare and David will miss him always. Friends may visit at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, Thursday, December 14th, 58pm. Contributions in h
 RIOS--Charles. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourn the loss of Charles Rios, husband of esteemed staff member, Della Frazier-Rios. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A. Zurack, Co-Chairs Lou-Ellen Ba
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Board and Staff of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden mourn the death of our longtime friend and Trustee of 20 years, Robert Rosenblum. His wise counsel and enthusiasm for art, artists and the Hirshhorn are a lasting legacy.       
 WEINSTEIN--Samuel. Who resided in the Adirondacks and Manhattan, died in an automobile accident December 7th. He was dearly loved by numerous family and friends. All are welcome to attend a memorial gathering Wednesday December 13th, 6:30pm at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Ave at 76th St.   
 Kenny Davern, a radically traditional jazz clarinetist and soprano saxophonist whose liquid tones linked him to the classical sound of New Orleans but who could also play free jazz, died on Tuesday at his home in Sandia Park, N.M. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, E
 BIGELOW--Alden G., 88, Professor Emeritus Virginia Commonwealth University, died peacefully at his home, Little Mountains Farm, in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Tuesday December 12th, 2006. He was surrounded by loving family and beloved dogs. Survivors include his beloved wife of over 60 ye
 BRYDSON--David Glen, 74, of New York, NY, died peacefully at home on December 11, 2006 after a valiant battle with cancer. While his body is lost, his memory will live on in the hearts and minds of his close knit family. David was born on December 2, 1932, in Toronto, Canada, the firstborn 
 CALI--Angelo. Educator-Humanitarian. Angelo R. Cali of Montclair, NJ died Friday, December 8th 2006. Predeceased by his wife Mary in 2003, he is survived by his brother John James, his children John, Angela, Joanne, and his five grandchildren, Rachel, Jason, Greg, Ian and Jake. Born June 16
 HAHN--John G., magazine publisher and author of a book on selling magazine advertising died on Tuesday, December 12th, 2006 at his apartment in Manhattan. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis according to his son, John. Mr. Hahn was born in Nutley, NJ on August 13th, 1918. He attended St. Peter
 LEVINE--Michael, died peacefully after a long illness on December 11, 2006. He was 59 years old. At his side were his siblings Lynne Jacobs and Stuart Levine and their spouses James Jacobs and Louise Levine. A man of big passions and fiery intellect, Michael continued to live his life to it
 NORMAND--William Clay, M.D., age 84, on December 11, 2006. Bill died peacefully, surrounded by family, with dignity and humor, lucid and brave, reciting poetry until the end (''even the weariest river''). Born August 3, 1922 in Kansas City, MO; grew up a Trillin-style Midwestern Jew, accele
 POMERANCE--Jerome J., 66. Died December 12th, 2006 of Melanoma. His wife Fredi, daughter and son-in-law Janice and Yoji Nimura, and grandchildren Clare and David will miss him always. Friends may visit at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, Thursday, December 14th, 58pm. Contributions in h
 ROSENBLUM--Robert. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Robert Rosenblum. A brilliant art historian and critic with an extraordinarily wide range of interests, Bob brought wisdom and wit to the deliberations of the Painting and Sculpture Committee, of whic
 SHAFER--Raymond P., The Board of Directors and staff of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations mourn the death of Governor Ray Shafer, our chairman between 1982-1992. Through his leadership, wise counsel, and good will, he made an enduring contribution to constructive U.S.-China rel
 SIROTKA--Brian. It is with great sadness that The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Brian Sirotka, Controller of Lincoln Center, Inc. for nearly 24 years. A treasured friend and colleague, Brian's careful and diligent approach to challengin
 Paul Arizin, the Philadelphia Warriors' Hall of Fame forward of the 1950s and early '60s, and one of pro basketball's first jump-shot specialists, died Tuesday night at his home in suburban Philadelphia. He was 78. Arizin died in his sleep, said Villanova University, where he was an
 Peter Boyle, who left the life of a monk to study acting and went on to become one of the most successful character actors of his time in films like ''Joe,'' ''Young Frankenstein'' and ''Monster's Ball,'' then capped his career as the curmudgeonly father on the hit sitcom ''Everybody Loves 
 Raymond P. Shafer, the former Pennsylvania governor who oversaw a revamping of the state's Constitution and led a drug commission for President Richard M. Nixon that recommended decriminalizing marijuana, died Tuesday in his hometown, Meadville, Pa. He was 89. The cause was complica
 Ahmet Ertegun, the music magnate who founded Atlantic Records and shaped the careers of John Coltrane, Ray Charles, the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and many others, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83. A spokesman for Atlantic Records said the death was the result of a brain inj
 Alan F. Shugart, an engineer and entrepreneur whose career defined the modern computer disk drive industry, died Tuesday in Monterey, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications after a recent heart operation, said his son-in-law Mark Peterson. Beginning his career as an I
 Angelo R. Cali, whose family-owned real estate development company merged with the Mack Company in 1997 to create one of the country's largest real estate investment trusts, died last Friday in Montclair, N.J., his hometown. He was 91. The death was confirmed by his brother, John, a
 Lamar Hunt, whose father's Texas oil fortune gave him the springboard to become a prime founder of the American Football League and who gave the Super Bowl its name, died Wednesday night in Dallas. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to a spokesman for the N
 DAVERN--Kenny. The Hamilton College Jazz Archive and the entire Hamilton community mourn the passing of world-renowned jazz clarinetist Kenny Davern. Kenny was a regular visitor to campus and the recipient of a Hamilton College honorary degree. His association with Hamilton has enriched and
 NORMAND--William Clay, M.D., age 84, on December 11, 2006. Bill died peacefully, surrounded by family, with dignity and humor, lucid and brave, reciting poetry until the end (''even the weariest river''). Born August 3, 1922 in Kansas City, MO; grew up a Trillin-style Midwestern Jew, accele
 POMERANCE--Jerome. The staff of Kroll Associates mourns the passing of our friend and former Managing Director Jerome Pomerance. Our chief operating officer for eight years, Jerry helped shepherd Kroll as we grew through the 1980's to become an international firm and the leader in our field
 REICH--Moshe. December 12th, 2006, passed away at the age of 95 in Israel. He is survived by his two devoted sons, Dr. Michael Reich of Manhattan and Dr. Yehuda Reich of Israel, six grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.       
 ROSENBERG--Louis, on December 12. Survived by wife Bobbie and daughters Andrea Peters and Debra Kubis and five grandchildren. A Structural Engineer Graduate from RPI with a varied career including Director of Engineering for White Plains. He served in the Army in WWII and was awarded the br
 ZURKOW--George A., D.D.S. Dr. Zurkow, at the age of 91, died peacefully at his home in Wilmington, Delaware on Wednesday, December 13, 2006. Dr. Zurkow devoted most of his professional and personal life to the improvement of the oral health of all the citizens of Delaware. He was the founde
 Bernard Kleiman, general counsel to the United Steelworkers of America for 32 years and a top adviser to five of the union's presidents during decades of industry turmoil, died on Wednesday in Pittsburgh. He was 78. Union officials said Mr. Kleiman died of a heart attack, days after
 Cadet Hand, a marine biologist and authority on the crabs, snails and intertidal creatures of California's Central Coast, where he helped found a flourishing marine laboratory on Bodega Bay in the 1960s, died Nov. 29 at his home in Salmon Creek, Calif. He was 86. The cause was cance
 J. A. Riggs Jr., a former executive vice president at The New York Times who oversaw the newspaper's conversion from hot-lead type to modern offset printing, died Monday in Evanston, Ill. He was 73 and lived in Tucson, Ariz. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Karen Are
 CARLSON--Richard. Beloved friend and inspiring writer. Generous, kind and grateful, he lived what he wrote. Deepest condolences to Kris, Jasmine, Kenna, Barbara and Don. Patti Breitman       
 ERTEGUN--Ahmet. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Parrish Art Museum mourn the passing of their former Trustee, generous patron and beloved friend. His passion and creative spirit will always remain with us. The Parrish extends its deepest condolences to his wife, Mica and family. Trud
 HOROWITZ--Sidney L, D.D.S., died peacefully at his home in New York City on December 13th. He was the beloved husband of Helen; dear father to Deborah, Rebecca, Sarah, and Ann; loving grandfather to Angela and Carly; devoted stepfather to Jeffrey Bronheim and Elizabeth Semler; and beloved s
 ISENBERG--Henry, Dr. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President $(6$)ISENBERG--Dr. Henry David on December 15th, 2006, born March 9, 1922 in Giessen, Ger
 JENNEY--Robert M. Robert M. Jenney of Palm Beach, Florida and Houston, Texas formerly of Brookline, Massachusetts died peacefully in his sleep on December 11, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Olive McCollum Jenney and his three children, Pamela Jenney Taft and her husband, Edward A. Taft o
 McCARTHY--John A. Jack McCarthy, age 75 of Atlanta, GA, formerly of New York City died Thursday, December 14th, 2006. A graduate of Georgetown University, Mr. McCarthy received his law degree from Fordham University. He served as Vice President, Director of Corporate Real Estate for R.J. Re
 ZUCKERMAN--Leonard. A pioneer in the instant coffee industry died on December 14th, 2006. He was the beloved husband of Anna, father of Marcia, Charles and Carol, father-in-law of Jonathan Feuer and Naomi Zuckerman, grandfather of Lauren, Ethan, Molly, Daniel and Julia, and brother of Dossy
 SUMERKIN--Aleksandr. An intellectual influence in the Russian emigre community and in the Village -as well as in the 1960's Moscow, he edited, published, translated, wrote a little, sang, and talked. His quiet charm, taste, courage, and rare dignity will be sorely missed by his close friend
 Dr. Robert W. Wissler, a cardiovascular researcher who, with others, discovered that a combination of smoking and high cholesterol in young men could damage arteries earlier and more significantly than previously known, died on Nov. 28 in Chicago. He was 89. The cause was respirator
 Tom Gregory, a television personality best remembered in New York for his catchphrase at the beginning of the 10 p.m. WNEW newscast -- ''It's 10 p.m. Do you know where your children are?'' -- died here on Monday. He was 79. His death, of heart disease, was confirmed by his daughter 
 William Z. Salcer, who survived a Nazi concentration camp and later made a fortune by inventing things in the United States, including a plastic lace tablecloth, died on Dec. 6 in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, his granddaughter Donna Z. Rubenstone said. Mr. S
 CHARNEY--David, husband of Louise, father of Esther, Steve and Ken, died December 12. He was 83. Dave was a renaissance man. A lieutenant in the Air Force in WWII, a gymnast, an art director, 7th degree black belt, author, flamenco guitarist, college professor and actor. There will be a mem
 DANTZIC--Jerry, June 3, 1925 -December 14, 2006. At Palm Gardens Nursing Center, after a long illness. A celebrated free-lance photo-journalist, award-winning panoramic photographer with the Cirkut camera and faculty member at Long Island University and Columbia Universitys Graduate School 
 GARREN--Mitchel Greenfield, M.D., died after a long illness on December 13, 2006. Practiced medicine for over 50 years in Greenwich Village. Survived by wife Rosemary and his two sons Scott and Brent. Private funeral services.       
 GOODRICH--Ernest C., 86, of Bloomfield, CT and Stratton Mountain, VT, on December 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Okerfelt Goodrich. Survived by his son and daughter-in-law, Ernest C. Goodrich, Jr. and Kathleen Maher, of Essex, CT; by his grandchildren, Jasper, Nicholas and A
 HOROWITZ--Sidney L, D.D.S., died peacefully at his home in New York City on December 13th. He was the beloved husband of Helen; dear father to Deborah Schuessler, Rebecca McSweeney, Sarah Statmore, and Ann Morris; loving grandfather to Angela and Carly; devoted stepfather to Jeffrey Bronhei
 HOWERY--Darryl, passed away peacefully in his 70th year on December 6th, 2006. Beloved, respected, husband, father, brother, grandfather and Professor Emeritus of Brooklyn College. Woodrow Wilson fellow, alumnus of Jefferson High School, Roanoke College, University of North Carolina in Chap
 JANKLOW--Leonard. Father, husband, grandfather, uncle, businessman, artist and friend. He took each of his roles seriously and excelled at every one. Len Janklow a man of many talents and uncommon character, who gave and received love freely died peacefully surrounded by family at 87, on De
 JENNEY--Robert M. Robert M. Jenney of Palm Beach, Florida and Houston, Texas formerly of Brookline, Massachusetts died peacefully in his sleep on December 11, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Olive McCollum Jenney and his three children, Pamela Jenney Taft and her husband, Edward A. Taft o
 KING--Robert K. Born Ramon Karney Krohn December 16, 1928, in Sioux Falls, SD. Died at home in Santa Monica on December 3, 2006. In 1945 at the age of 17, Bob enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. After serving his country in the Pacific and Korea he returned home to begin his broadca
 LOW--Jerome Howard, a resident of Briarcliff Manor, NY for 49 years, died on December 11, 2006 at the age of 90. The cause of death was acute Myelogenous Leukemia. Jerome was born on August 24, 1916 to Edouard Low and Nellie Stone Low of Brooklyn, NY. After attending Erasmus Hall High Schoo
 MAKI--John M., died December 7, 2006 at SunBridge Care and Rehabilitation, Hadley, Massachusetts. He was born in Tacoma, Washington on November 19, 1909. He was adopted in 1919 by the late Alexander and Amanda (Bradley) McGilvrey, having been raised by them since infancy. He received his B.
 PALMER--Herbert Bearl, 91, Art innovator, Gallerist, and prominent figure in the Los Angeles art world. Died peacefully on December 12th, 2006. His wife Lillian, his son and daughter-in-law, William and Anne Thorson Palmer, and daughter Meredith Palmer, will deeply miss his inspiration and 
 ROSENBLITT--Milton. Lifelong NYC activist for peace, justice, and equality, died on December 8 at age 86. His life was devoted to civil rights, anti-war, anti-nuclear movements, and other social causes. He had remarkable integrity and intelligence, joie de vivre, a love of the arts, and was
 ROSS--John, G., Photographer and Egyptologist, died of pneumonia on December 6th in Oxford, England. His dear friends, Judy and Deborah, and his family of friends in London, New York, Paris, Rome, and Tuscany will forever miss this charming and elegant man. There will be a memorial service 
 SIMON--Bernard (Buzzy); left us on December 15th, 2006 at the age of 96. He will be remembered by his beloved wife, Frances (Hammerman), son Elliot and daughter-in-law Maxine (Fertel), granddaughters Marni Blake and Joy Simon and sister Anna Zavin. A simple gentle man, he leaves behind many
 STEDMAN--Theodore Winthrop, 95, of Farmington, CT and Fishers Island, New York died December 14, 2006. Born in Shanghai, China on December 25, 1910, he graduated from Harvard in 1933. He was a vice president of the Hartford National Bank. He was a member of the Fishers Island Yacht Club, Mi
 STONE--Allan Barry, 74, of Purchase, NY died peacefully in his sleep on December 15, 2006. A beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend, collector and art dealer, his extraordinary joie de vivre, brilliance, humor, generosity and acumen were an inspiration to all who knew him. He will be 
 WEINSTEIN--Samuel. Who resided in the Adirondacks and Manhattan, died in an automobile accident December 7th. He was dearly loved by numerous family and friends. All are welcome to attend a memorial gathering Wednesday December 13th, 6:30pm at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Ave at 76th St.   
 WENDELL--Lewis C., Jr. A three-war veteran and retired Foreign Service Officer, died November 14, 2006, in Brewster, Massachusetts. He was 88. A veteran of WWII and Korea, he retired from the U.S. Army in 1962 with multiple medals and commendations, including the Bronze Star. From 1962 to 1
 ZUCKERMAN--Leonard. A pioneer in the instant coffee industry died on December 14th, 2006. He was the beloved husband of Anna, father of Marcia, Charles and Carol, father-in-law of Jonathan Feuer and Naomi Zuckerman, grandfather of Lauren, Ethan, Molly, Daniel and Julia, and brother of Dossy
 Allan Stone, a New York dealer who combined a broad expertise in Abstract Expressionism with a zeal for junk sculpture and realist painting and was perhaps as well known for amassing art as for selling it, died on Friday at his home in Purchase, N.Y. He was 74. He died in his sleep,
 C. Peter McColough, who sharply increased the size and prominence of the Xerox Corporation as its chief executive until his retirement in 1982, died on Dec. 13 in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 86. His son, Andrew McColough, said the cause was cardiac arrest after a long illness. Du
 Henry Pearson, an artist whose use of undulating parallel lines in both painting and sculpture made him a pioneer of Op Art, died on Dec. 3 in Manhattan. He was 92 and had lived in Manhattan for many years. His death was confirmed by his brother, Stanley. Inspired by his wor
 Herbert Gursky, a leading space researcher for the Navy who, in the 1960s, guided investigations that discovered the sources of X-rays arriving from outside the solar system, died Dec. 1 in Fairfax, Va. He was 76. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. Until recently
 CHARNEY--David, husband of Louise, father of Esther, Steve and Ken, died December 12. He was 83. Dave was a renaissance man. A lieutenant in the Air Force in WWII, a gymnast, an art director, 7th degree black belt, author, flamenco guitarist, college professor and actor. There will be a mem
 ERTEGUN--Ahmet. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation and Museum mourns the passing and celebrates the life of our Chairman, friend and mentor Ahmet Ertegun. As one of our founders Ahmet was essential to the development and building of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame of which the main ex
 GOLD--Arthur M.D. 76. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply sadden by the passing of Arthur Gold M.D. an esteemed colleague for over 40 years and former Acting Chair of the Department of Opthamology. In addition to his great dedication to his patients, 
 GOODRICH--Ernest C., 86, of Bloomfield, CT and Stratton Mountain, VT, on December 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Okerfelt Goodrich. Survived by his son and daughter-in-law, Ernest C. Goodrich, Jr. and Kathleen Maher, of Essex, CT; by his grandchildren, Jasper, Nicholas and A
 PALMER--Herbert Bearl, 91, Art innovator, Gallerist, and prominent figure in the Los Angeles art world. Died peacefully on December 12th, 2006. His wife Lillian, his son and daughter-in-law, William and Anne Thorson Palmer, and daughter Meredith Palmer, will deeply miss his inspiration and 
 STONE--Allan. A beloved original. He actually wore a tie to our wedding. Roger and Jenni Pearson       
 WOOLIS--Robert, 82, housing activist died on December 15, 2006. He is mourned by his former wife and good friend Amy Godes, his colleagues in the Mitchell-Lama Residents Coalition of which he was cochair, and by the many tenants he helped over the years.       
 Robert N. Anthony, a professor at the Harvard Business School and an influential author who helped make the numbers-crunching of accountants more comprehensible to business executives, died Dec. 1 at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90. The death was confirmed by his son, Robert Jr.
 Samuel Devons, a physicist and historian of science at Columbia University who combined research in nuclear physics with a career-long effort to make science accessible to general audiences, died on Dec. 6 in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Irvington, N.Y. The cause was congestive
 Chris Hayward, an Emmy-winning writer for television whose work was once banned in Canada because of the painful inadequacies of one of its leading men -- the righteous, square-jawed and stupendously slow-witted Mountie Dudley Do-Right -- died on Nov. 20 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
 Joseph Barbera, an innovator of animation who teamed with William Hanna to give generations of young television viewers a pantheon of beloved characters, including Tom and Jerry, Yogi Bear, Huckleberry Hound and the Flintstones, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 95. 
 APTER--Samuel L. Dedicated husband of the late Marilyn Silverman Apter. Loving father of Fredric (Susan) and Andrew (Mary) Apter. Doting grandfather to Tim (Carin), Alex, and Nora Apter. Caring companion of the late Helaine Newhouse. Second father to Jill (Tom) Denzler, John (Karen) Newhous
 GOLD--Arthur. The members of the Manhattan Ophthalmological Society note with great sorrow the passing of their honored and esteemed member Arthur Gold, M.D. Dr. Gold's enthusiasm, contributions, dedication and gentle manner will long be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his fam
 GOMPRECHT--Robert Feeley, M.D., of Bronxville, New York and Boca Raton, Florida on December 17, 2006. Adoring husband and friend for 60 years to Kathleen, devoted and loving father to Robert (Alanna), Jane, Ann Skrzypczak, Ellen Reich (Doug) and Paul (Lisa), grandfather to Robert Gomprecht 
 GULDEN--Charles Jr., a retired food executive, passed away on December 14th in Stamford, CT. He was born in New York City on November 6, 1934. After suffering from Alzheimers for several years, Mr. Gulden had a short bout with cancer. Mr. Gulden was a graduate of the Hotchkiss School and th
 HABER--Robert, D.D.S. Passed away December 18th, at the age of 82. A skilled dentist, and ace Navy pilot in World War II. Beloved husband to Carole Wright, devoted father to John, Ilene, and Alex, and loving brother to Stan. Adored by family and friends for his humor, charm, and intelligenc
 HEAP--Ian Roger. Ian Roger Heap passed away just after midnight on Saturday December 16th, 2006. He was the beloved husband of May Wager Heap. Born in 1925 in Manchester, England, he was educated at Bury Grammar School. He served in the Fleet Air Arm of the Royal Navy from 1944-1947 as a Su
 McCARTHY--John A. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John A. McCarthy a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith IV, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian       
 PARKER--Beatrice D. Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen, P.C. offer our sincerest condolences to the family of our partner and friend, David Parker, on the passing of his mother, Beatrice D. Parker. Our thoughts are with David and his wife Ronnie, David's father Herman, David's sister Toby Lon
 SEIDLER--Norman H., 87, of Boca Raton, FL, passed away December 17, 2006. Survived by his wife Muriel, daughter and son-in-law Terry and Andy Marcum, daughter and partner Jo Seidler and Bette Skandalis, and granddaughter Lisa Marcum. The three passions in his life were his family, the pract
 STONE--Allan, Thank you for finding me as a sculptor when you were a lawyer and guiding me to be a collector. Muriel (Mickey) Kaplan $(6$)STONE--Allan, The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague. Truly one of a kind, he w
 WERTHEIM--Bruce. Hus band to Rochelle, father of Stacey and Jason, son of Frances and Morris, brother of Dennis, Susan Pernick and Iris Wertheim. He died on December 13th at the age of 61. A private graveside funeral was held December 15th at Agudath Shalom Cemetery in Stamford, CT.       
 GOLDSTEIN--Simeon H.F. Former protege of the founder of the Harry & Jane Fischel Foundation, and the Foundation's long-time executive director and soul. He will be sorely missed for his knowledge, scruples, principles, dedication, perseverance and wit. H&J Fischel Foundation Chief Rabbi S.Y
 Larry Sherry, whose brilliant relief pitching in his rookie season with the Los Angeles Dodgers propelled them to all four of their victories over the Chicago White Sox in the 1959 World Series, died Sunday in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 71. The cause was cancer, the Dodgers said. 
 Larry Zox, a painter whose exuberant geometric abstractions made a strong contribution to the Color Field movement of the 1960s and '70s, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Colchester, Conn. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Melinda. In Mr. Zox's signature works
 APTER--Samuel L. Dedicated husband of the late Marilyn Silverman Apter. Loving father of Fredric (Susan) and Andrew (Mary) Apter. Doting grandfather to Tim (Carin), Alex, and Nora Apter. Caring companion of the late Helaine Newhouse. Second father to Jill (Tom) Denzler, John (Karen) Newhous
 CALDERON--Joseph, died December 18, one week shy of 91st birthday. Loving husband of Dorothy, dutiful father of Peter and Phyllis, adoring grandfather of Susan, Ariana, Sara, Adam, Julie and Miranda, proud great-grandfather of Matthew, Jeremy, Emma and Rebecca. Graduate of University of Sou
 FELDMAN--Samuel M. The Faculty of Arts and Science of New York University mourns the death of Samuel M. Feldman, an esteemed member of our Center for Neural Science and Department of Psychology. A faculty member since 1971, Sam became an Emeritus Professor in Fall 2006. Sam was a leading re
 GOMPRECHT--Robert Feeley. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Robert Feeley Gomprecht, a life member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith IV, President Henry F. White Jr, 
 HODES--Robert. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts regret the passing of Robert D. Hodes, friend, neighbor and generous supporter. Bob Hodes served as a Trustee of Caramoor from 1985-2000, including terms as Treasurer and Vice Chairman. His appreciation
 ISENBERG--Henry, Ph.D. Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Medical Center mourns the loss of Henry Isenberg, Ph.D, the former chief of microbiology who was a respected and valuable member of the staff. One of the hospital's founding leaders, Dr. Isenberg was instrumental in the growth and development 
 ROZANSKI--Frida. The partners and staff of Loeb & Troper send their deepest condolences to our partner Larry Rozanski on the loss of his dear mother, Frida. May the entire family be consoled among the Mourners of Zion.       
 STONE--Allan. In your honor we will eat chocolate every day. Dear friend, we will miss you forever. Gerrit and Sydie Lansing $(6$)STONE--Allan. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family of Allan Stone, his wife Clare and his six daughters, Allison, Claudia, Jeremy, Heather, Pos
 SWICK--George Boice, 82, Exeter, NH, formerly of Upper Saddle River, NJ, died December 15th, 2006. Born July 20th, 1924 in Little Falls, NJ. Survived by his wife Lois Swick, three daughters, six grandchildren, and two brothers. Brewitt Funeral Home, Exeter, NH is handling the services. For 
 ETTENHEIMER--Aubrey. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Aubrey Ettenheimer and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Kathryn ''Kit'' and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 Sheldon Fox, who was part of the founding triumvirate of Kohn Pedersen Fox, one of the country's most successful architectural firms, died on Saturday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 76 and had until recently been a longtime resident of Stamford, Conn. The cause was complicat
 Sheik Abdul-Amir al-Jamri, Bahrain's most prominent Shiite Muslim cleric and an opposition leader during civil unrest in the 1990s, died Monday at his home in Manama, his son Mansour al-Jamri said. He was 67. The cause was multiple organ failures and a heart attack, Mr. Jamri said. 
 Cecil Travis, a Washington Senators infielder who was one of baseball's leading hitters of the 1930s and early '40s, died Saturday in Riverdale, Ga. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Mike. A left-handed line-drive hitter, Travis batted over .300
 Daniel Pinkham, a prolific composer, organist and fixture on the Boston classical music scene who taught at the New England Conservatory for nearly a half-century, died Monday at the home of friends in Natick, Mass., the conservatory said. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The
 ADLER--Paul. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Paul Adler. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Estelle, and their family. Allan Greenblatt, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 ELLMAN--Gerald J. Passed away at age 96 on December 19, 2006. Devoted husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father of Dr. Leonard (Carol) and Stephen (Martha) Ellman. Proud grandfather of James (Kathryn), Juliana (Thad), Adrienne and Stephanie. Recently blessed as a greatgrandfather of Teo Zio
 FREUD--Gustav. Age 92, of Manhattan died peacefully December 19, 2006. Born September 2, 1914 in Vienna, emigrated November 1938. Beloved husband of Margaret, devoted father of George, proud grandfather and greatgrandfather, and loyal friend. Pre-deceased by his dear first wife Ruth. Lover 
 LATHAM--W. Nichols. Nick spent his life as a father, farmer, engineer, conservationist and humanitarian, but always in the service of improving the quality of life of others. During his tenure as director of Camp Kabeyun, a summer camp for boys which he loved dearly, Nick had a profound imp
 LEMMER--Eric R., M.D., of New York City and Johannesburg, South Africa, passed away suddenly on December 16, 2006. Dr. Lemmer was a Gastroenterology and Liver Specialist at Mount Sinai Medical Center. Eric will be truly missed by his parents Richard and Carina Lemmer, his sister and brother
 O'REILLY--Brian F., age 23. Cherished son of Francis and Philomena. Beloved brother of Patrick (Claire) and Kevin. Devoted friend to countless. A St. Francis Prep 2001 and Cornell 2005 graduate, Brian fought a courageous sevenyear battle with osteosarcoma, succumbing on December 18, 2006. B
 REIFEL--Saul of New City, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY passed away on December 19, 2006. His angels, daughter, Toni, and mothers, Belle and Adele, were there to greet him. Born February 7, 1942 to Belle and Arthur Reifel and sister Marilyn, he loved his family, friends and the Brooklyn Dodg
 SILVER--Norman J., M.D. St. Petersburg, Florida. Born February 5th, 1926 in Brooklyn, NY. Son of the late Benjamin Silver and Pauline Nussbaum Silver. Devoted husband of Marcia for 58 years, brother of Richard, father of Nancy, Jacob, and Thomas, grandfather of Eric and Marc Schlossberg, Ma
 WEINER--Alexander, May 21, 1921 -December 19, 2006, affectionately known as Uncle Al by his many relatives, numerous friends, and extended families. Al could never and would never say no to anyone. He was loved by many and loved many more in return. A professional photographer all his life,
 Jerry Berns, a proprietor of the ''21'' Club for a half-century and the last link to the restaurant's past as Manhattan's most celebrated speakeasy, died yesterday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 99 and had homes in Rancho Mirage, Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. His daughter, Cecily
 Martin Conroy, an advertising executive who without recourse to glossy paper or fancy graphics created one of the most enduring ad campaigns of all time, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. He was 84 and lived in Madison, Conn., and Captiva, Fla. The cause was complications of lung c
 BERNS--H. Jerome (Jerry) on December 21st at the age of 99. Husband of Dorothy. Predeceased by his wives Martha and Suzanne. Father of Cecily Rosenthal and the late Diane Stein. Grandfather of Charles Stein, Marianne Magnotta, Elisabeth Stein, Susan McNeill, William Miller and Sandra Miller
 BERNSTEIN--Gerald, Age 84. Former New Yorker. Retired from the Furniture Business. Survived by his loving family, wife Dorothy, sons David and Stephen, daughter-in-law Patrice and granddaughters Emily and Jenna. Burial is in California. In lieu of flowers, kindly make donations to Temple Ju
 BLOOM--Samuel, Ph.D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center and its Board of Trustees mourn the passing of Samuel W. Bloom, Ph.D., Professor of Community and Preventive Medicine, and founding member of the faculty of Mount Sinai School of Medicine. In addition to his skills as a clinician and teach
 GOLDBERG--David, our warmest condolences to Emily, Sarah, Ari, and grandchildren. We will miss David so much, worthiest of colleagues, finest of friends. Morton David Goldberg and Flo Goldberg $(6$)GOLDBERG--David. The law firm of Cowan, Liebowitz & Latman, P.C. mourns the passing o
 HARRISON--Sydria. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, and its Alumni Board of Governors, record with deep sorrow the passing of Sydria Harrison, beloved mother of Aaron Harrison, M.D. class of 1974, president of the College's Alumni Association and esteemed member
 JONES--Raymond L., 81, retired Chief, New York City Police Department, passed away December 17, 2006, in Naples, FL. After 41 years of service Ray retired from the NYPD as Deputy Commissioner in 1989. He was born and raised in New York City and was a long time resident of Oyster Bay, NY, an
 LEVENTHAL--Jack, 94, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Artist, naturalist, sportsman, thinker, seeker of the truth, and lover of the universe -A Renaissance Man. Handsome debonair and beloved husband of Rose (deceased), cherished and devoted father of Peter, Joan and Robin, kind 
 MINTZER--Marcus A. D.D.S. On December 21, 2006, dedicated husband of the late Marcia Goldich Mintzer. Loving father of Mark (Beverly) and Barry (Ellen). Devoted grandfather to Matthew and Mara (Harry). A caring companion to Dr. Renee Solomon. Graduated University of Pennsylvania Dental Scho
 OSTROW--Robert W., 80, of Niantic, CT died Thursday December 21 after a long battle with pulmonary fibrosis. Beloved husband of Eleanor (nee Malkin) married for 54 years. Devoted father of Richard, Randolph and Ronald, father-in-law to Connie, Lesley and Mary and grandfather of Daniel, Mich
 PERLBERG--Martin. Be loved brother, uncle, friend, died December 20 at home. Born March 14, 1927, Marty was beloved by all who knew him for his humor and kindness. Remembered fondly by countless friends made through years working in the entertainment and film industry, recently with Will Ro
 RACHLEFF--Jack. DRS Technologies, Inc., mourns the passing of our former board member Jack Rachleff. Jack was a good friend to Leonard Newman, encouraging and supporting his founding of DRS in 1968. Jack will be remembered as a visionary, whose interest in technology and innovation helped t
 SMITH--Robert G. 93, of Arnold, Maryland, Pfeiffer professor of political science emeritus at Drew University, died Wednesday, December 13, in Arnold. He retired in 1977 after 40 years at Drew, where he founded the political science department and several off-campus programs. A Bronze Star 
 YOUNGKEN--John R. December 14th 2006. Beloved husband of Romy Porrazzo. Loving father of Kelly Goodwin Youngken and Abigail Bouldin Youngken, devoted brother of Richard Charles Youngken. He was Vice-President of the compliance department at the Bank of Tokyo -Mitsubishi UFJ. Memorial servic
 Scotty Schulhofer, a Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who twice saddled Belmont Stakes winners, died Dec. 14 in Aventura, Fla. He was 80. The cause was cancer, the New York Racing Association said. Schulhofer trained many top horses, but perhaps none had a greater impact on
 Andrew Spielman, an entomologist at Harvard whose studies of mosquitoes, ticks and other insects shed light on the diseases that parasites carry to humans, most notably malaria, the West Nile virus and Lyme disease, died on Wednesday in Boston. He was 76. His family confirmed the de
 ALSOP--Reese Fell, M.D., 93, of Lloyd Harbor, NY on December 19, 2006. Loving husband of Elise (Coates). Beloved father of Brooke Alsop Boland of Chesapeake, VA, Elise Alsop Sweet of Boston, MA, Anne Alsop Chambers of Francestown, NH, Jane Alsop Johnson of St. James, NY, and Reese Penn Also
 BERNS--H. Jerome (Jerry) on December 21st at the age of 99. Husband of Dorothy. Predeceased by his wives Martha and Suzanne. Father of Cecily Rosenthal and the late Diane Stein. Grandfather of Charles Stein, Marianne Magnotta, Elisabeth Stein, Susan McNeill, William Miller and Sandra Miller
 HYMAN--Seymour C. William Paterson University mourns the loss of its former President, Seymour C. Hyman. Dr. Hyman served as President from 1977 to 1985 and was responsible for strengthening the core operations of the institution, increasing the diversity of students and staff, and providin
 SCHNEIDER--James. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their long-time friend and member, James Schneider. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Harvey L. York, President Robert Fagenson, Secretary       
 George Latshaw, an internationally renowned puppeteer who for half a century breathed life into a diverse array of inanimate objects, and in so doing helped gain acceptance for puppetry as a legitimate art form in the United States, died on Tuesday in Temple Terrace, Fla. He was 83.        
 ADLER--Paul N. of Palm Beach, Florida, on Wednesday December 20th, 2006. Beloved husband of Estelle, father of Marci, Robert and Denise, Gary and Cindi, loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Jennifer, Jacob, Jaquelin, and Anthony Miller, adored brother and uncle. Service Sunday December 24, 11:15 
 BERNS--H. Jerome (Jerry), always the consummate gentleman with a genuine warm, friendly personality. The last of the legendary restaurateurs. With Jerry's arrival, Jack, Charlie, Mac, Bob and Pete now have a full '21' celestial table. Deepest condolences to Cecily and the Berns family. Caro
 BOLTON--Robert, emigre from South Africa and proud American citizen, died on December 17, 2006, at age 69. He began his New York career at The Asia Society, but devoted the final 25 years of his life to helping people with AIDS, early on at GMHC and then for the last 18 years at The Momentu
 BRAVERMAN--Irving L. Born December 11, 1916 in Brooklyn, New York, son of Nettie and Morris Braverman, died at home on December 22. Irving graduated from Tilden High School in Brooklyn where he was a champion swimmer. He received both his BA and MA degrees in business education from New Yor
 BRENNGLASS--Samuel L. On December 23, 2006, in his 95th year. Beloved husband of the late Theresa. Devoted father of Alan C. and fatherin-law to Eleanor. Loving grandfather of Ilan and Brian. Services today 12:45PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 BUSHMAN--Arthur. Born April 2nd, 1927. Died December 22nd, 2006 after a valiant struggle with cancer. Beloved husband, devoted father, grandfather and friend. We will miss him with all of our hearts always and forever.       
 CARTER--Warwick Montgomery, age 79, a lifelong resident of Washington, died on December 18, 2006 from complications of pneumonia and Parkinson's disease, from which he suffered for over 20 years. He died 12 days short of his 80th birthday. Mr. Carter attended the University of Pennsylvania.
 HOLLAND--Frank L., 79, of West Orange, NJ and Wilmington, VT, died in an airplane crash in Hamptonburgh, NY on December 14, 2006. He was predeceased by his wife of 42 years, Arlene Holland. Surviving are his daughter Lysa Holland and her husband Tom McNichol, son Robert Holland and his wife
 HYMAN--Seymour C. William Paterson University mourns the loss of its former President, Seymour C. Hyman. Dr. Hyman served as President from 1977 to 1985 and was responsible for strengthening the core operations of the institution, increasing the diversity of students and staff, and providin
 JONES--Raymond L., 81, retired Chief, New York City Police Department, passed away December 17, 2006, in Naples, FL. After 41 years of service Ray retired from the NYPD as Deputy Commissioner in 1989. He was born and raised in New York City and was a long time resident of Oyster Bay, NY, an
 KUPFRIAN--Wilbur. New Jersey Institute of Technology mourns the death of its distinguished alumnus Wilbur Kupfrian, class of 1933, engineer, inventor, patent attorney, entrepreneur, and loyal supporter for whom the University's Kupfrian Hall is named. His dedication to his alma mater will b
 LATHAM--W. Nichols. Nick spent his life as a father, farmer, engineer, conservationist and humanitarian, but always in the service of improving the quality of life of others. During his tenure as director of Camp Kabeyun, a summer camp for boys which he loved dearly, Nick had a profound imp
 LEVENTHAL--Jack, 94, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Artist, naturalist, sportsman, thinker, seeker of the truth, and lover of the universe -A Renaissance Man. Handsome debonair and beloved husband of Rose (deceased), cherished and devoted father of Peter, Joan and Robin, kind 
 MAGER--Lawrence M. ''Lonny'', 68, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, passed away peacefully at home in the presence of his family on December 21, 2006. Beloved husband of Harriet, loving father of Eric and Jill, Matthew and Merrill, Jill and Lee Hurwitz, adoring grandfather of Max and Lila, Brett a
 SHWARTZ--Harold, December 12, 2006 at home in Pompton Lakes, NJ. Hesh, son of John and Anna Shwartz, was born in Paterson, NJ, valedictorian of his high school class, graduate of New York University, and served in the Army Air Corps during WWII. He was the president of John Shwartz, Inc., w
 ZOREK--Warren W., Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with the deepest of sorrow the death of our cherished and esteemed member Winnie Zorek. His devotion to and work for the community at large was extraordinary and his commitment to our Temple exemplary. May his loved one
 HERRLINGER--Edward F. II of Newport, Rhode Island and Montego Bay, Jamaica, West Indies died December 22 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was a graduate of The Taft School and Yale University. He was a member of The New York Yacht Club, The Spouting Rock Bathing Association, The Clambake Club, 
 VALE--Michael (aka Fred the Baker). December 24, 2005. He did not just make the donuts, he made us smile and we miss him. Nancy, Ivy, Tracy, Rick and Violet       
 The Rev. Robert S. Bilheimer, a Presbyterian minister with an ecumenical vision who organized religious leaders against the war in Vietnam and apartheid in South Africa, died on Dec. 17 in Canandaigua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Canandaigua. The cause was complications of a hip fra
 Bertram A. Powers, the longtime head of the New York printers' union, who led one of the nation's longest and most debilitating newspaper strikes and years later negotiated a contract that guaranteed his members jobs for life as computers eclipsed their craft, died Saturday in Washington. H
 Herman Klurfeld, a ghostwriter for the legendary columnist Walter Winchell for almost three decades, died last Monday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had lived for many years. He was 90. The cause was a heart arrhythmia, said his son, James. Mr. Klurfeld started writing up to 
 ZOREK--Warren W. (Winnie), on December 22, 2006, in his 82nd year after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Jane, devoted father of Jennifer Pressman and Michael Zorek, father-in-law to Mark Pressman and Shelly Friedland, adoring grandfather of Jessica, Jeremy, Jeffrey and Diana. For four d
 SCHLOSBERG--Norman. Beloved father of Rosann and Richard, husband of 65 years to Sylvia, loving grandparent to Elana, Seth, Ariella, Sarah and Natalie, great-grandparent to Rachel, Jacob, Bradley and Ellie. Our father was a kind, warm-hearted, bright and handsome man. He always cared about 
 Frank Stanton, a central figure in the development of television broadcasting in the United States and the industry's most articulate and persuasive spokesman during his nearly three decades as president of CBS, died Sunday afternoon at his home in Boston, a longtime friend, Elizabeth Allis
 James Brown, the singer, songwriter, bandleader and dancer who indelibly transformed 20th-century music, died early yesterday in Atlanta. He was 73 and lived in Beech Island, S.C., across the Savannah River from Augusta, Ga. Mr. Brown died of congestive heart failure after being hos
 BRODERICK--Harold Thomas, 84, of Wilton, Connecticut died Tuesday, December 19th at Norwalk Hospital. Mr. Broderick, also known as Hal, was born in New York City on June 2, 1922. He attended Regis High School and received a BA from Columbia University on scholarship. He served in the Navy d
 FEUER--Sol, Beloved husband of Ida Gollubier Feuer. Devoted uncle. Dear friend to all who knew him. Services will be held, Tuesday, December 26, 2006 at 12:45 pm at the ''Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 GLASCOTT--John A. (Jack) Jr. on December 24, 2006 at the age of 80 of Briarcliff Manor, NY. Retired Senior Vice President National Sales Manager of MetroMail, a Metromedia Company. A veteran of World War II, he also served combat duty as a First Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps 
 HUNTER--William, on December 25, at age 65. Beloved son of Mildred, loving husband of Roberta, proud father of David and Julie, dedicated teacher and assistant principal at John Jay High School, Brooklyn. Passionate theatergoer, avid reader, and lover of life's gifts. He will be missed by t
 MARINO--Edward J., on December 22, 2006. Loving and beloved companion to Marilyn Golub. Loving father to Michael and Elaine, Christopher and Adrienne, and Janet and William Gerlach, and his children's mother Jean Marino and their grandchildren. Loving presence in the lives of Marilyn's chil
 MEISTRICH--Philip H. of Teaneck, formerly of Paramus, on December 25, 2006. A veteran of World War II, he was a First Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Air Corp. He was a navigator for the 453rd Bomb Group, 8th Air Force, and received the Distinguished Service Cross and Air Medal. Mr. Meistrich w
 MONTAGUE--Edward, on December 23rd, 2006. beloved father of Steven, Mary, Anna, Eugenie and Abigail. Loving brother of the late Anthony, Daniel, Mary and Thomas. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell -The Funeral Chapel 1076 Madison Ave (81st St) Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9pm. Funeral private. In
 SCHARF--Louis, who would have been 94 years of age on January 1st, passed away on December 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Sadie Sydelle, loving father of Rhoda and David Narins, and Paul and Susan Scharf; adoring grandfather of Jonathan, Valerie and Jeffrey, Amy, and Steven, proud great-grand
 SHULMAN, Albert. better know as (A.E. Shulman) passed away on December 23rd, 2006 due to complications of Parkinson's Disease. Devoted and loving husband of Miriam, caring father of Ed and Doreen Shulman, Wendy and Mark Teppel and Dean and Leslie Shulman. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Bria
 STEIN--Sol. He lived till 95 with all his faculties intact, including he irrepressible optimism and verve. Even in his 90's, he's the one we counted on to carve the turkey on Thanksgiving Day. He will be missed by many who loved him. Jane, Mike and the Kids. $(6$)STEIN--Solomon, 95,
 ZOREK--Warren W. (Winnie), on December 22, 2006, in his 82nd year after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Jane, devoted father of Jennifer Pressman and Michael Zorek, father-in-law to Mark Pressman and Shelly Friedland, adoring grandfather of Jessica, Jeremy, Jeffrey and Diana. For four d
 BRENNGLASS--Samuel L. The Officers and staff of the Orthodox Union extend their deepest condolences to the family of Samuel Brennglass, an OU leader for the past 70 years, Honorary Chairman of the Board for the past 28, and a mentor to generations of OU and NCSY leaders. A brilliant attorne
 Frank Tremaine, a retired senior vice president at United Press International who as a young reporter filed what is believed to have been the first eyewitness account of the bombing of Pearl Harbor, died in Savannah, Ga., on Dec. 7, the 65th anniversary of the attack. He was 92. The
 Former President Gerald R. Ford, who was thrust into the presidency in 1974 in the wake of the Watergate scandal but who lost his own bid for election after pardoning President Richard M. Nixon, has died, according to a statement issued late last night by his wife, Betty Ford. He wa
 BROOKS--Martyn, (December 22) of Aventura, FL, formerly of Brooklyn. Loving husband of Barbara for 56 years; beloved father of Dr. Lee J. Brooks, Allison Buonamassa and the late David Ross Brooks; devoted grandfather of Deborah, Michael and Rebecca Brooks and Aaron Buonamassa; beloved broth
 BURROS--Stanley B. (Barry), NYC. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Stanley ''Barry'' Burros who died on December 20 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. Following childhood residences in Waterbury, CT, and the Bronx, he ultimately chose Manhattan as his ho
 HOLLAND--Morton, loved life for 91 years as beloved husband of Muriel (Levy), adoring father of Beth Holland and Chuck Queener, doting grandfather of Sara and Mark Richman and Jonathan and Pam Stein, proud greatgrandfather of Jacob, Eliot and Abigail Stein. He cherished his extended family 
 POWERS--Bertram, on Saturday, December 23, 2006. A 60 year resident of New York City, died at the Washington Home and Hospice. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Colville Powers. He is survived by his children Kevin Powers (Jean) of Buffalo, New York, Patricia Inciardi (Steven) of Novato,
 REICHMAN--Jack Z'ev Ph.D, ASA 56 of West Hempstead, NY died Monday at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital. Beloved husband of Rosalyn Ebrahimoff, devoted father of Menashe, Rocky, and Gili Reichman. Son of his dear father Richie (Herman) and the late Lillian Reichman, brother of Sureen Rothba
 SALTSER--Michael. We mourn the passing of our past President and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Carole Neely, Steven Blaustein, Co-Presidents SALTSER--Michael. Beloved husband of Lois. Loving father of Karen, Maryann, and Jef
 SHWEDER--Jerry My dear sweet man, my dear sweet man, my dear sweet man. 63 years -we shared everything Bun SHWEDER--Jerry The most humble master of life and sacrifice. A diamond. Multifaceted. A holy Knight who showed the way. Rob, Martha, Gabe and Jaya. SHWEDER--Jerry of Gr
 STANTON--Frank. With deep sadness we regret the loss of Dr. Frank Stanton, long time board member and esteemed friend of Lincoln Center Institute. As in all aspects of Frank's life, he not only served with distinction, he led with distinction. From his good counsel of Lincoln Center Institu
 TIMOTHY--Richard M. a member of the New York Stock Exchange on December 21, 2006 of Kinnelon. Beloved husband of Lynne. Funeral services will begin 9 am Thursday from the M. John Scanlan Funeral Home, 781 Newark Pompton Turnpike at Route 23, Pompton Plains and proceed to a Mass that will be
 VON KOHORN--Henry, Ph.D., a businessman, inventor, and ranked tennis player, passed away on December 24th in Vero Beach, Fl at the age of 93. He died peacefully at home, said his wife, Marcy Von Kohorn. Dr. Von Kohorn was president of Von Kohorn International Corporation which built synthet
 WARREN--William C. III. In Rochester, NY on December 22, 2006. Predeceased by his wife Jessica Weis Warren. He is survived by his daughter, Kimberly Warren (John Cammack); sons, Charles D. Warren and Rudolph W. (Margaret) Warren; sister, Emily Wettlaufer; grandchildren, Henry and Walker Cam
 William H. Booth, a former New York City judge who challenged racial discrimination in employment, housing, education and other fields as a civil rights leader and as chairman of the city's Commission on Human Rights in the late 1960s, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Kissimmee, Fla. He was 8
 Braguinha, the Brazilian composer of Carnival songs whose humorously ironic melodies influenced generations of Brazilian musicians, died on Sunday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 99. Braguinha died after suffering a generalized infection, according to a statement from Dr. Joo Luiz Ferre
 Henry M. Beachell, a plant breeder whose cultivation of a remarkably fecund new rice plant led to greatly increased yields of the crop in developing countries of Asia, died on Dec. 13 at his home in Pearland, Tex. He was 100. Mr. Beachell's death was confirmed by the International R
 BOEHM--Robert, passed on December 26, at home, age 92. Lawyer and supreme activist, he was deeply devoted to the causes of civil rights, peace and justice. Chairman (Emeritus) of the Board of the Center for Constitutional Rights, longtime member of the National Lawyers Guild, ACLU, and NECL
 CONRAD--Brother Donan (Raymond), O.S.F. on December 26th, 2006. Professed member for forty-five years of the Franciscan Brothers of Brooklyn. Beloved brother of Mrs. Anita Santulli, loving uncle of Joseph Santulli (Liz), Michelle Volpe (Rocco), granduncle of Nicole and Allyson and life-long
 FORD--Gerald R., The Board of Trustees, residents, alumni, and staff of International House mourn the death of President Gerald R. Ford, who served as Chairman from 1985 until 1989, and as Honorary Chairman until his death. He led the Board during a time of historic expansion for I. House, 
 HELLER--Herbert M., age 71, died all too soon on December 26, 2006 in Kittery, Maine. Beloved husband of Sarah R. Heller; proud father of Richard and Liza Heller and Erica and Robert Newman; devoted stepfather of Beatrice Rothstein and Franz Szoecs, Martine and Brian Marcus, and Marc and Ju
 HYMAN--Seymour C. The City University of New York mourns the loss of its former Deputy Chancellor and Vice Chancellor. Dr. Hyman served as CUNY's first Vice Chancellor for Campus Planning and Development from 1966-1969 when CUNY was embarking on a major capital construction program, leading
 KIRSCHBAUM--Sidney, on December 26, 2006 after a long illness. Born May 12, 1919 to Max and Rose Kirschenbaum. Devoted brother of Pauline Federman and Mildred Goldman. A loving son, brother, uncle, cousin and friend, Sidney was a long time employee of Gimbel's Department Store in Manhattan.
 LEMMER--Eric, The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of The Mount Sinai Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Eric Lemmer, MBBCh, Ph.D, a warm and compassionate clinician and an inspiring and much beloved teacher. He will be missed by his patients, his students, and all of us who
 LOUGHRAN--Rev. James N. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of the Rev. James N. Loughran, S.J., president of St. Peters College, Jersey City, NJ, and former acting president of Brooklyn College. Having already earned a noteworthy reputation as a scholar, teacher and administrator, Rev. Lou
 PLANCK--Dr. Russell E., 87, of Greensboro, NC died on December 26th, 2006. Dr. Planck is survived by his companion and partner of many years, Anthony L. Dickerson, and by several cousins. At Dr. Planck's request no funeral service will be conducted. A mass of celebration and thanksgiving wi
 RADMIN--Mack. He has finally cashed in his chips, at age 90, after a great run. A great guy, he deserved it. Mack is survived by his loving wife, Nancye, along with his children; William, Brett, Linne, Richard, and Sandie. He leaves behind five grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren, his bro
 ROTHSCHILD--Morton. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie and loving father of Diane and granddaughter Alexandra. Passed away on December 21st and will be sorely missed by his family and many friends.       
 SCHARF--Louis. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Louis Scharf. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Seth Blumenfeld, President Hildy Wagenheim, Secretary       
 SMYTH--Craig Hugh. The Institute of Fine Arts -NYU is profoundly saddened by the death of Craig Hugh Smyth at age 91. Craig served the Institute with great distinction as inspiring professor, as loyal trustee, and as visionary director from 1951 to 1973. With outstanding intellect and quiet
 STANTON--Frank. With deep sadness we regret the loss of Dr. Frank Stanton, long time board member and esteemed friend of Lincoln Center Institute. As in all aspects of Frank's life, he not only served with distinction, he led with distinction. From his good counsel of Lincoln Center Institu
 WEINBERG--Herschel. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President $(6$)WEINBERG--Herschel M., on December 26
 Former President Gerald R. Ford, who gently led the United States out of the tumultuous Watergate era but lost his own bid for election after pardoning former President Richard M. Nixon, died at 6:45 p.m. Tuesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 93, making him the oldest 
 Edwin David Edwards, whose accusations of improper currency transactions at Citibank mired it in scandal, died Dec. 21 at a hospice care center near his home in Wichita Falls, Tex. He was 62. The cause was cancer, his brother, Mark Edwards said. Mr. Edwards, known as David, 
 John Bishop, a playwright, screenwriter and longtime member of Circle Repertory Company in New York, died on Dec. 20 in Bad Heilbrunn, Germany. He was 77 and lived in Encino, Calif. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lisa Maurer Bishop. ''The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940
 ALEXANDER--Norman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Norman Alexander. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.       
 BARBER--Hugh R.K., MD. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the entire Lenox Hill Hospital family mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague. A distinguished physician, educator, scholar and advocate for women's health care, Dr. Barber was internationally renowned for his seminal work
 BOEHM--Robert. The Board and Staff of the Center for Constitutional Rights mourn the death of our Chairman, Robert Boehm. Since our 1966 founding, Bob has been a powerful presence and generous benefactor, demanding that CCR hew to its progressive mission to defend the Constitution and inter
 BURKE--Shane, O.S.F., Very Reverend Brother Shane (Gerard) on December 27, 2006. Superior General of the Franciscan Brothers of Brooklyn. Beloved son of Jane and the late Gerard Burke. Cherished brother of John, Kevin, Glenn and Joan, Jayne, Sister Karen Burke, C. S. J., Brian and Lorrie, a
 ELLISON--Walton Darrell. Died on December 28, at the age of 81. Beloved husband of the late Ruth, he is survived by his son Kevin and three grandchildren. Professor of Physics at The Cooper Union, he was both intelligent and kind. He was the best father one could have.       
 ERICSSON--Carl J. ''Sonny'', 76, of Clyde, OH, January 17th, 1930 -December 26th, 2006. Mr. Ericsson was born January 17th, 1930 in Brooklyn, NY, to the now deceased Carl Einer and Esther Thea (Psmedes) Ericsson. He moved to Clyde in August 1987, after retirement from the New York Daily New
 FORD--Gerald R. With great sadness we mourn the passing of our very dear friend, President Gerald Ford. We feel so lucky to have shared so many happy times with President Ford and Betty as well as having them as beloved role models. We feel privileged to have memories that will last forever
 HYDE--Edwin N, (Bud) of Scarsdale, age 82, retired Advertising Executive died on December 27, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife Anna Marie, his loving nephew Paul Prybil and neice Alison Cappella. Visiting Hours Saturday December 30, 2006 from 4-7PM. Bennett Funeral Home, Scarsdale, 
 PAYKIN--Bentley H, 79, died peacefully on December 26th, 2006 in Scarsdale, NY. He was an economist and cofounder of Economic Information Systems Inc. He is survived by his wife, Rose Marie, three children and four grandchildren.       
 RADMIN--Mack. He has finally cashed in his chips, at age 90, after a great run. A great guy, he deserved it. Mack is survived by his loving wife, Nancye, along with his children; William, Brett, Linne, Richard, and Sandie. He leaves behind five grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren, his bro
 SMYTH--Craig Hugh. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Craig Hugh Smyth, a highly revered scholar of the Renaissance as well as an inspiring colleague and friend. He was an Honorary Trustee of the Metropolitan since 1968, and during his more than tw
 STANTON--Dr. Frank, the trustees, staff and volunteers of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation (EBC) licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW New York, mourn the passing of Dr. Frank Stanton, a television pioneer and passionate defender of the First Amendment rights of broadcasters. A legend 
 SWEDOWSKY--Benjamin. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Benjamin Swedowsky. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M.
 Fernand Nault, one of Canada's foremost dance figures, who followed a 21-year career at American Ballet Theater with the artistic leadership of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens and with prolific choreography that ranged from ''The Nutcracker'' to ''Tommy,'' his 1970 hit rock ballet, died in Mon
 ALEXANDER--Norman, we will always cherish our wonderful sailing adventures. We love you and will miss you. Marilyn and Bob $(6$)ALEXANDER--Norman E. We note with sadness the loss of Norman Alexander, a devoted trustee since 1986 and a passionate advocate for biblical archeology at T
 BURKE--Shane, O.S.F., Very Reverend Brother Shane (Gerard) on December 27, 2006. Superior General of the Franciscan Brothers of Brooklyn. Beloved son of Jane and the late Gerard Burke. Cherished brother of John, Kevin, Glenn and Joan, Jayne, Sister Karen Burke, C. S. J., Brian and Lorrie, a
 MARK--Elizabeth (Wyner), age 75 years of Newton, MA on Friday, December 29, 2006. For 55 years, the beloved wife of Dr. Melvin Mark. Loving mother of Jonathan Mark and his wife Gayelynn Taxey of Alexandria, VA, David Mark and his wife Paula of Sharon, MA and Peter Mark and his wife Lynn Gol
 OBERWEGER--Gideon S., on December 28. Beloved son of Tania and Oscar, devoted husband and best friend of Claudia, caring father of Alexander and Timothy and their wives, Caroline and Willow, and doting grandfather to Naomi Grace and Charlotte Bailey. He was embraced by a large circle of clo
 STANTON--Frank. The City University Graduate Center community is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Frank Stanton, who served as a member of our Board of Visitors and was a founding member of our Frank Stanton/Andrew Heiskell Center for Public Policy in Telecommunications and Information
 STONE--Robert J., a prominent public relations professional, died December 27 following a series of strokes. He is survived by his daughter, Judith Stone-Goldman; sonin-law, Allan Goldman; grandsons, Jonathan and Matthew Markowitz; sister, Ruth Lieberman; and companion, Jane Yendell. Mr. St
 Rudolf de Crignis, a New York abstract painter, died last Saturday in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, diagnosed in November, said his partner, Michael Paoletta. Mr. de Crignis was born in Winterthur, Switzerland, and studied at the Form + Farbe
 The hanging of Saddam Hussein ended the life of one of the most brutal tyrants in recent history and negated the fiction that he himself maintained even as the gallows loomed -- that he remained president of Iraq despite being toppled by the United States military and that his power and his
 ALEXANDER--Norman. We will miss our long-time friend Norman and sympathize with Marjorie and family. Fred Sullivan's $(6$)Alexander--Norman E. The American Jewish Committee mourns with great sadness the passing of Norman Alexander, a dear friend, a member of our Board of Governors, and an A
 DRUCE--Sylvan. Loving husband of Zelda, father of Helen (Peter), Susan (Peter) and Robert. Grandfather of Rachel and Erica, great-grandfather of Holly. Beloved brother of Anita (Howard), Florence, and of the late Murray. Brother-in-law of Ansel and uncle to many nieces and nephews. He was a
 FIGGIS--John M., age 81, of Southbury, CT; husband of the late Jacqueline (Rue) Figgis, died Tuesday, December 26th, 2006. He was a retired employee of the American Can Company. Funeral services will be private. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to The Kent School, P.O.
 HYMAN--Wilbur Z., 85, a retired agent for Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company and a resident of Clifton, NJ, for 50 years, died peacefully December 14th, 2006 at the Jewish Home and Healthcare Center, Somerset, NJ. Born and raised in NYC, he was a graduate of Seward Park High School and T
 KAUFMAN--Gerald Allen, passed away December 24, 2006 of Plainview. Loving husband of Arleen to whom he was married 45 years. Adored father of Michael Kaufman, Melissa (Marc) Edelman and Peter (Jennifer) Kaufman. Cherished grandfather of Ethan, Brook, Sydney and Samuel. Dear son of Mollie. B
 LARKINS--Jerry, passed on December 27, 2006. He is survived by his partner, Howard C. Ducat, his siblings: Donald, Jack, Jill, Jane, and Rosemarie. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Gay Men's Chorus of Washington care of Federal City Performing Arts Association, 2000 P Street
 MARK--Elizabeth (Wyner), age 75 years of Newton, MA on Friday, December 29, 2006. For 55 years, the beloved wife of Dr. Melvin Mark. Loving mother of Jonathan Mark and his wife Gayelynn Taxey of Alexandria, VA, David Mark and his wife Paula of Sharon, MA and Peter Mark and his wife Lynn Gol
 OBERWEGER--Gideon S., on December 28. Beloved son of Tania and Oscar, devoted husband and best friend of Claudia, caring father of Alexander and Timothy and their wives, Caroline and Willow, and doting grandfather to Naomi Grace and Charlotte Bailey. He was embraced by a large circle of clo
 SMYTH--Craig Hugh. The entire I Tatti community mourns the loss of our beloved friend and mentor, Craig Hugh Smyth. Director of Villa I Tatti from 1973 to 1985, he more than anyone effectively established its eminence as the leading center for advanced, interdisciplinary study of the Italia
 STEWART--James Elliott, a quintessential entrepreneur who assembled a lumber yard in his native Minneapolis, Minnesota, G.M. Stewart Lumber Company, into National Building Centers, a nationwide chain of lumber and building material businesses, died at his Surfside, Florida home on December 
 STONE--Robert J., a prominent public relations professional, died December 27 following a series of strokes. He is survived by his daughter, Judith Stone-Goldman; sonin-law, Allan Goldman; grandsons, Jonathan and Matthew Markowitz; sister, Ruth Lieberman; and companion, Jane Yendell. Mr. St
 Robert Boehm, the chairman of the Center for Constitutional Rights, a Manhattan-based nonprofit group most recently in the forefront of an effort to secure legal rights for military prisoners held by the United States at Guantnamo and elsewhere, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper We
