 Elliot L. Richardson, the archetype of the cultivated New England Brahmin who served in an astonishingly broad range of high public positions, and who was best known for his refusal during Watergate to obey President Richard M. Nixon's order to fire a special prosecutor, died yesterday in h
 Ray Hubbard, a television producer and broadcasting executive and a pioneer in the medium, died on Monday in Kenwood, Calif. He was 75 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease. Mr. Hubbard was vice president for programming and production at Post-Newsweek Stations in Washingt
 Sam Shapiro, a health care analyst and biostatistician whose studies in the 1960's proved that mammograms saved women's lives by catching breast cancers at an early, treatable stage, died on Thursday at his home in Baltimore. He was 85. Professor Shapiro, working with Dr. Philip Str
 Thomas Francis Lambert Jr., a law professor and dean who served as a trial lawyer for the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg after the defeat of Nazi Germany, died on Wednesday at his home in Boston. He was 85. For the past 27 years, until last May, Professor Lambert taugh
 Copeland H. Marks, the author of 16 cookbooks who traveled the world in search of remote and exotic cuisines, died last week in his apartment in Brooklyn Heights. He was 78. Mr. Marks had been in the Foreign Service and the import-export business before getting a late start writing 
 Fred Saigh, a former owner of the St. Louis Cardinals who was forced out of baseball in 1953 when he was sentenced to federal prison for income-tax evasion but kept the team in St. Louis by selling it to the locally based Anheuser-Busch brewery, died Wednesday at a hospital in Chesterfield,
 Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr., who as chief of naval operations in the early 1970's ordered the Navy to end racial discrimination and demeaning restrictions on sailors, then faced a haunting personal anguish that he attributed to the defoliant Agent Orange, died yesterday at the Duke University 
 Shankar Dayal Sharma, the emotional but decisive president of India in the turbulent years from 1992 to 1997, died on Dec. 26 in a hospital in New Delhi. He was 81 and lived in New Delhi. A longtime member of the Congress Party, he was its president for a time. Dr. Sharma, whose doc
 Agis Salpukas, a reporter for The New York Times who covered business news for much of his career, died yesterday. He was 60 and lived in Tenafly, N.J. His body was found in the Hudson River off Manhattan, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner. He
 Carl Rachlin, a New York labor and civil rights lawyer who rallied to the defense of Freedom Riders and sit-in demonstrators during the 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his family said. At the time of the most intense
 Jeshajahu Weinberg, the first director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum here and one of the principal forces behind its creation, died on Saturday in Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv. He was 81. Mr. Weinberg served as the museum's director from its beginning in 1989 until 
 Nat Adderley, a jazz cornetist and trumpeter who was a frequent collaborator with his brother, the saxophonist Cannonball Adderley, and a composer whose style popularized a melodic, bluesy, secular gospel-jazz, died on Sunday at a hospice in Lakeland, Fla. He was 68 and lived in Lakeland.  
 Renny B. Saltzman, an interior designer and patron of modern architecture, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was complications associated with leukemia, said his wife, Ellin. In 1956 Mr. Sa
 Victor Valle, a boxing figure for more than six decades who trained world champions but was best remembered for developing Gerry Cooney into a ballyhooed heavyweight contender of the 1980's, died Dec. 24 at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx. He was 82. Valle, who lived in the Bronx, had 
 Henry H. Fowler, who as Treasury Secretary in the Johnson administration helped raise the money to meet the soaring costs of the Vietnam War and who proposed what turned out to be the last Federal budget surplus in a generation, died on Monday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
 Robert James Burkhardt, a onetime power in the New Jersey Democratic Party who helped organize the Soviet-American summit meeting at Glassboro, N.J., but stumbled in a bribery scandal, died on Dec. 30 at Arden Hill Hospital in Goshen, N.Y. A former resident of Trenton and Central Valley, N.
 Thomas G. Butson, a former editor at The New York Times and other newspapers who went on to become part owner and editor of The Villager, a community newspaper in Greenwich Village, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 68 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Eliza
 James H. Ottaway Sr., the founder and former chief executive of Ottaway Newspapers Inc., a chain of newspapers based in Middletown, N.Y., that is now owned by Dow Jones & Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Goshen, N.Y. He was 88. In 1976, he stepped down as chief executive of
 Larry Bearnarth, the Mets' top relief pitcher in their lowly early years and later a pitching coach for the Montreal Expos and the Colorado Rockies in a baseball career spanning more than three decades, died Saturday at St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 58. He ha
 Lucas Hoving, a choreographer and modern dancer who performed with the Jose Limon Dance Company from 1949 to 1963, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 87. Mr. Hoving was a quietly imposing figure on the stage, a gifted actor and serenely humanistic performer who infu
 Walter Galenson, a labor economist who studied the history of American and Scandinavian unions and made the first serious attempt by a Westerner to measure labor productivity in the former Soviet Union, has died in Washington. He was 85. Professor Galenson, who died on Dec. 30, expl
 Adam Yarmolinsky, a native New Yorker and liberal member of the Eastern establishment who helped reorganize the Pentagon and was the intellectual architect of many of the poverty programs under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 77 and died at Geo
 Irwin H. Kramer, a senior partner and managing director at Allen & Company, an investment bank in New York, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Terry Allen Kramer. Mr. Kramer, who also lived in Manhattan and 
 John Milner, an outfielder-first baseman who played on pennant-winning teams with the Mets in 1973 and the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1979, died on Tuesday at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta. He was 50. The Mets said that Milner, who lived in the Atlanta suburb of East Point, had canc
 Patrick O'Brian, the Anglo-Irish novelist whose stirring tales of the British Navy in the Napoleonic Wars made him a literary celebrity at an age when most writers have long ceased to ply their trade, died in Dublin Sunday. He was 85. In recent months Mr. O'Brian had acknowledged th
 Yehuda Ebstein, a former executive of several Jewish nonprofit organizations, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said a daughter, Aviva Ebstein Kroninger of Manhattan. Mr. Ebstein was born in Oppeln, Germany, on Oct. 1, 1924, and emigr
 Don Martin, the Mad magazine cartoonist with a rubbery slapstick style whom the magazine billed as ''Mad's maddest artist,'' died on Thursday at Baptist Hospital in Miami. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said Christine Thompson, a hospital spokeswoman. Mr. Martin's hapless 
 Dr. Harald Hermann Rossi, a biophysicist who improved the ability to measure minute amounts of ionizing radiation and their effects on living things, died Jan. 1 at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 82. While he was active professionally until his death, he had been suffering fro
 Robert McG. Thomas Jr., a reporter for The New York Times who extended the possibilities of the conventional obituary form, shaking the dust from one of the most neglected areas of daily journalism, died on Thursday at his family's summer home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 60 and also had 
 Timothy Charles Venn Elliott, a Manhattan advertising executive, died Dec. 30 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 51. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his associates said. At his death Mr. Elliott, a native of England, was the managing director of the flagship office 
 Tom Fears, a Pro Football and College Football Hall of Fame receiver and later a National Football League coach, died Tuesday in a convalescent home in Palm Desert, Calif., near his home in Palm Springs. He was 77. His son Dan said his father died of complications from Alzheimer's d
 Andrew T. Stamboulidis, a retired textile executive who was active in the Greek-American community, died Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was heart failure, his family said. He retired in 1990 as director of administration and marke
 Dr. Karl Strauch, a high-energy physicist who helped provide insights into the fundamental structure of matter and energy, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Boston. He was 77 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had Parkinson's disease, but the immediate cause was pneumoni
 Bishop James Stuart Wetmore, the longest serving suffragan bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York and a staunch advocate of ecumenism, died Dec. 28 at the Lutheran Care Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. A resident of Millbrook, N.Y., he was 84. He suffered a lengthy illness, the dio
 James W. Walter, the former chairman of Walter Industries who built a billion-dollar housing business  and oversaw its subsequent bankruptcy in the face of complaints by people who said they had been injured by asbestos produced by a Walter subsidiary, died on Thursday at his home in Tampa,
 John Low Baldwin, who conducted the University Glee Club of New York City, an exuberant and exclusive throwback to the era when groups like the Whiffenpoofs -- meaning men and only men -- ruled the risers, died Dec. 31 of lung cancer at a Morristown, N.J., hospital. He was 76. Mr. B
 Teddy Brenner, the longtime Madison Square Garden matchmaker whose keen eye for appraising fighters was matched by his clever ability to deal with their managers, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 82 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, said his wi
 David B. Bryson, a lawyer and advocate of the housing rights of poor people, died on Dec. 25 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 58 and lived in Piedmont, Calif. The cause was lung cancer, The Associated Press said. Mr. Bryson ''was a central figure in the advocacy for 
 Hans Schwerte, an authority on literary history who admitted in 1995 that under another name he had been an SS officer, died on Dec. 18 in a retirement home in Marquartstein, Germany. He was 90. His death was announced by the Aachen Technical University. By the time that he acknowle
 Leon Radzinowicz, a scholar of criminology who played a major role in the development of the field, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. For most of his career, Mr. Radzinowicz, who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970, taught law at Cambridge University, w
 Malcolm L. Denise, a former labor relations executive with the Ford Motor Company, died Dec. 30 at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 86. Malcolm Lawrence Denise was born Oct. 29, 1913, in Decatur, Mich. He earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree from the University of Mich
 The Rev. Carl Elkanah Bates, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention, the country's largest Protestant denomination, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Hendersonville, N.C. He was 85. Mr. Bates, who led the convention from 1970 to 1972, had previously been president of the
 Victor Serebriakoff, who helped Mensa, the organization for self-conscious but intensely convivial intelligentsia, grow from four eggheads around a London dinner table to a worldwide intellectual omelet of more than 100,000, died on New Year's Day at his home in Blackheath, a London suburb.
 Gen. Leonard F. Chapman Jr., the former commandant of the Marine Corps who guided the service through the height of the Vietnam War and the social and racial upheavals of that era, died of cancer on Thursday in Fairfax, Va. He was 86. After his retirement from the military in 1972, 
 George A. Athanson, the flamboyant mayor of Hartford who modeled himself after Fiorello La Guardia and served longer than any Hartford mayor since 1812, died of a heart attack at his Hartford home Sunday night, his wife said. He was 72. Mr. Athanson, a Democrat who was mayor for fiv
 Milton E. Krents, a broadcast executive who produced the religious drama and discussion series ''The Eternal Light'' on NBC radio and television for the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. 
 Robert McFadden, who gave raspy voice to the parrot cackling ''Ring around the collar!'' and ''Pretty shirt!'' in Wisk commercials in the 1970's as well as speaking for thousands of other advertising and cartoon characters, died last Friday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 76.      
 Henry Pleasants, a music critic, author and translator, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London. Mr. Pleasants was best known for his books about the voice, which he loved, and contemporary music, about which he had become disillusioned in the early 195
 Jerome Goldstein, who built a modest business selling a homemade wood restorer into a multimillion-dollar, publicly traded company called Scott's Liquid Gold, died on Wednesday in Denver. He was 77 and lived in Denver. The cause of death was large-cell lymphoma, said his son, Mark G
 Jervis Anderson, a staff writer for The New Yorker for 30 years and a leading chronicler of African-American life best known for his biographies of A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin, died sometime over the Christmas and New Year holidays at his home in New York City. He was 67. H
 Marcantonio Vilaca, an art dealer whose gallery in Sao Paolo was as instrumental in introducing European and North American artists to South America as it was in promoting young South American artists abroad, died on Jan. 1 at his parents' home in Recife, Brazil. He was 38. The caus
 Robert H. Craft, a prominent international investment banker in the 1950's and 60's, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Carefree, Ariz., near Phoenix. He was 93. In a 50-year career that began a month before the stock market crash of October 1929, Mr. Craft held executive and consulting
 Perry Monroe Shoemaker, who started as a summer laborer for the Pennsylvania Railroad for 7 cents an hour and rose to become the president of two large railroads and the chairman of a third, died on Dec. 25 in Tampa, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Shoemaker was 46 in 1952 when he became presid
 Bob Lemon, who pitched his way to the Hall of Fame with the Cleveland Indians, then managed the Yankees in their memorable pennant-winning comeback of 1978 when they overtook the Boston Red Sox in a division playoff, died Tuesday night at a nursing home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 79.     
 Edward R. Cony, a former managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1961 as a reporter for the paper, died on Sunday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 76. The cause was pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Richard J. Tofel, vice presiden
 Bruno Zevi, editor of the Italian magazine L'Architettura and one of Europe's most prominent architecture critics for five decades, died on Sunday at his home in Rome. He was 81. Trained as an architect, Mr. Zevi was strongly influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright's concept of organic arc
 Henry Pleasants, a music critic and author who doubled as a top American spy in postwar Germany, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London. A former colleague at the Central Intelligence Agency said Mr. Pleasants had served as the intelligence agency's st
 Jack E. Brown, a lawyer prominent in several early cases concerning the computer industry and intellectual property, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Paradise Valley, Ariz. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Paul F. Eckstein, an attorney at Brown & Bain, the Phoenix law firm
 Alfred Nzo, who helped lead some of the earliest battles against South Africa's apartheid regime and decades later became the country's first black foreign minister, died on Thursday in a clinic here. He was 74. A leading figure in the African National Congress for more than 30 year
 Devereux Milburn Jr., a sportsman and Wall Street lawyer who was a skilled performer both on polo fields and in courtrooms, died on Monday at his home in Narragansett, R.I. He was 82. He had cancer, his son Frank said. Mr. Milburn was a grandson of Charles Steele, a senior p
 Dr. Paul Benjamin Sigler, a molecular biologist at Yale and a pioneer in the study of the organic structure of organisms, collapsed and died on Tuesday on a walk from his home to his laboratory on the campus in New Haven. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, the university repor
 Herb Graff, who devoted most of his life to collecting, preserving and showing movies, especially early talkies of the 1930's, and a cinephile whose calling card read simply but accurately ''Film Resource,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was heart fai
 James P. O'Neil, the president and chief operating officer of Browne & Company, believed to be the country's second-oldest publicly traded company and one of the world's leading financial printers, died on Thursday in New York City. He was 55 and lived in Wayne, N.J. He died of card
 David Mellinkoff, a lawyer, professor and writer who waged fierce and clever battle against lawyerly language, ''contagious verbosity'' in his phrase, died in Los Angeles on Dec. 31. He was 85. Mr. Mellinkoff waged his war in books, articles and lectures, attacking what he called ''
 Edward T. Hanley Sr., who faced accusations of associating with organized crime in his 25 years of leading the nation's largest union of hotel and restaurant workers, died Jan. 7. He was 67 and lived in Wadsworth, Ill. He was killed in a traffic accident near his country home in Lan
 Marc Davis, one of the top cartoon animators who have worked on Walt Disney films, died Wednesday. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Davis, who was also a designer, worked for Disney from 1935 until his retirement in 1978. He was one of a core group of animators whom Walt Disn
 Pierre Clementi, the darkly handsome French character actor who made a specialty of seductive and menacing roles, died on Dec. 27 in Paris. He was 57. The cause was liver cancer, said Catherine Verret, the executive director of Unifrance USA, a French film association in Manhattan. 
 Stephen J. Jatras, former president and chief executive of the Telex Corporation and a member of the Oklahoma Regents for Higher Education, died at his home in Tulsa, Okla., on Jan. 8. He was 73. The cause of death was complications from a brain tumor, his daughter, Stephanie Buffum
 Bernhard Wicki, one of the best known film directors of postwar Germany, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Munich. He was 80. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his wife, Elisabeth Endriss, told Reuters. Though he began his career as an actor, Mr. Wicki rose to pr
 Estrongo Nachama, the chief cantor of the Berlin Jewish community and the man who did as much as anyone to revive Jewish life in the city after Hitler destroyed it, died on Thursday. He was 81. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Vigorous to the last, eye
 Ivan D. Combe, who was responsible for the fame of a medicine chest of brand-name products including Clearasil and Just for Men hair coloring, died on Tuesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Combe, who lived in Greenwich, was the chairman and chief executive of Combe Inc., a priv
 The Rev. James Francis Maguire, chancellor emeritus and the president of Loyola University Chicago during 15 years of robust growth, died on Jan. 10 at the Colombiere Jesuit Community in Clarkston, Mich. He was 95. Father Maguire's leadership was credited with bolstering the univers
 Gene Harris, a jazz pianist who plied a polished, mainstream and agreeably bright brand of blues, soul and bebop, died on Sunday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 66. The cause was complications from kidney failure a month before he was expecting a kidney transplant from one of hi
 Dr. Robert R. Wilson, a physicist who built the world's most powerful particle smashers in a setting that he insisted be surrounded by restored prairies and enriched by striking architecture and objects of art, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 85. With a career that
 Derek Anson Jones, the director of ''Wit,'' which won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for drama, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 38. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Denis O'Hare. With a clean, precise vision of an emotionally complex play, Mr. J
 Irving I. Stone, who helped turn a small family business, started in 1906, into the world's second-largest maker of greeting cards, died Monday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 90 and lived in Beachwood, Ohio. Mr. Stone began at age 5 by stuffing postcards into envelopes
 John Morris Rankin, a master fiddler and pianist who helped spark a North American renaissance of Celtic music and culture, died on Sunday on his native Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia when his truck skidded off a twisting coastal highway and plunged into the icy sea. He was 40. M
 Dr. Nelson Shaulis, whose grape-growing experiments in the Finger Lakes region of New York State revolutionized vineyard practices worldwide, died on Saturday in Newark, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Geneva, N.Y. Before Dr. Shaulis retired in 1978 as professor of viticulture -- the sc
 Sam Jaffe, the pre-eminent agent of his day and a producer credited with saving Paramount Studios from financial ruin in the 1920's, died on Jan. 10 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 98 and lived in Beverly Hills. In addition to representing some of the biggest stars in Hollywood
 Bettino Craxi, the first Socialist to serve as prime minister in postwar Italy, who ended his career in disgrace and self-imposed exile as an emblem of political corruption, died of a heart attack in Tunisia on Wednesday, his family said. He was 65. In recent months, there had been 
 James Card, one of the world's leading film preservationists, a passionate devotee of silent movies and the founder and first curator of the Department of Film at the George Eastman House of Photography in Rochester, died on Sunday at a hospital in Syracuse. He was 84 and lived in East Roch
 Juggy Gayles, whose career in the music business stretched from the Lindy Hop to hip-hop, died in his sleep on Monday at the Parker Geriatric Nursing Home in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Gayles promoted hit songs as a song plugger bringing material to big bands and crooners, a
 Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins Jr., one of the leading evolutionary biologists and foremost botanists of the 20th century, died on Wednesday at his home in Davis, Calif. He was 94. Dr. Stebbins was one of the architects of the period during which knowledge from the study of fossils, geneti
 Makhmud Esambayev, a Chechen ballet dancer who achieved wide recognition in the Soviet Union for his virtuosic folk dancing, died in Moscow on Jan. 7. He was 75. The Itar-Tass press agency said he died after a long illness. Mr. Esambayev's artistry in theatricalized ethnic d
 Clifford Truesdell, a mathematician and historian of mathematics who also was an authority on European art and culture, died on Jan. 14. in Baltimore. He was 80 and lived in Baltimore. Dr. Truesdell was best known for developing the mathematical underpinnings of continuum mechanics,
 Geoffrey E. Perry, a British grammar school teacher who used rudimentary equipment to uncover secret details of the Soviet space program during the cold war and later became a trusted consultant to United States government agencies, died on Tuesday near his home in Bude, Cornwall. He was 72
 George C. Crowley, an engineer and inventor whose work led to 80 patents, including one for the first thermostatically controlled electric blanket, died Jan. 15 in Pinehurst, N. C., after suffering from pneumonia. He was 80 years old. After his graduation in 1942 from the University
 Russell L. Wenkstern, who as the chief executive of Tonka Toys made them a household name, died on Tuesday in Spring Park, Minn. He was 87. Mr. Wenkstern lived in Mound, Minn., and had a winter home in Venice, Fla. Mr. Wenkstern was chief executive and president of Tonka Toy
 Alain Poire, a legendary figure in the French movie industry who produced more than 250 films during a 55-year career, died on Jan. 14 at his home in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine. He was 82. Mr. Poire, who spent most of his life working for Gaumont and was director of Gaumo
 Daniel Thursz, a former executive vice president of B'nai B'rith International, died on Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 71. The cause was a heart ailment, the organization said. At his death, Dr. Thursz was the Cardinal O'Boyle professor of social work at Catholi
 John Newland, an actor and director best remembered as the dignified host on the ''Alcoa Presents'' television series, an early venture into programming about the paranormal, died Jan. 10 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Newland directed and was the host of al
 Craig Claiborne, who emerged from the Mississippi Delta to become the nation's pre-eminent food journalist and whose writings coaxed millions of meat-and-potato Americans to the table of fine cuisine, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 79 and lived in East Hamp
 George Foerstner, an Iowa entrepreneur who founded Amana Appliances during the Depression and led it for 48 years while introducing the microwave oven and the side-by-side refrigerator to American homes, died Monday in Miami, near his winter home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 91 years old.   
 Jack Segal, a talent agent known for booking prodigious numbers of singers and comedians at hotels in the Catskills and the personal manager for a menagerie of eccentric and largely uncelebrated performers, died on Jan. 12 in Livingston, N.J. He was 98 and lived in West Orange, N.J.        
 Bob Squier, one of the originators of modern political imagery and a close friend and adviser of Vice President Al Gore, died today after a six-month battle with colon cancer. He was 65 and lived in Millwood, Va. Mr. Squier brought his background as a documentary filmmaker with a fa
 Gerald Patrick Murphy, a urologist whose research led to the P.S.A. test, widely used to help in the early detection of prostate cancer, died on Friday in Tel Aviv while attending a conference on cancer. He was 65 and lived in Seattle. The cause was a heart attack, reports from Isra
 Dr. Herbert S. Gutowsky, who pioneered the use of the technique of nuclear magnetic resonance for determining the structure of molecules, died on Jan. 13 at a hospital in Urbana, Ill. Dr. Gutowsky, who lived in Urbana since 1948, was 80. The technique gave chemists a new analytical 
 Amyas Ames, an investment banker who devoted half his life to the support of the arts, becoming board chairman of both the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at  a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. He was 93. During his long busin
 Carl T. Curtis, a former Republican House member and senator from Nebraska who spent 40 years in Congress preaching a strict fiscal and social conservatism and was a staunch defender of Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal, died on Monday in Lincoln, Neb. He was 94. Through
 Don Budge, the red-haired athlete who helped redefine the terms of his sport by becoming the first player to win the Grand Slam of tennis, in 1938, died yesterday in Scranton, Pa. He was 84. Budge was injured Dec. 14 in northeastern Pennsylvania when the car he was driving skidded o
 Leonard Weisgard, a children's book illustrator who won the Caldecott Medal in 1947 for ''The Little Island,'' written by his friend Margaret Wise Brown under the pseudonym Golden MacDonald, died on Jan. 14 at his home in Glumso, Denmark. He was 83. Mr. Weisgard was born in New Have
 Perry T. Rathbone, an internationally known art authority and the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston from 1955 until 1972, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Rathbone, who joined Christie's, the auction house, after leaving the museum an
 Deane McGowen, a sportswriter for The New York Times for more than three decades, died Saturday at North Country Hospital in Newport, Vt. Mr. McGowen, who lived in Newport, was 83. The cause was complications of emphysema, his family said. Mr. McGowen covered a wide range of
 Ed Clark, the veteran Life photographer who soon after President Franklin D. Roosevelt's death caught a nation's grief in the tear-stained face of a Navy bandsman playing an accordion salute, died on Saturday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88. During his long career, Mr. Clark
 Emory Orgustus Cunningham, a publishing executive who served up recipes for sweet potato pie and a rosy view of a new suburban South emerging from the region's rural poverty and decades of racial strife, died of pneumonia on Monday in Birmingham, Ala., where he lived. He was 78. Mr.
 Edward J. Logue, an urban development czar who organized radical renewal programs to combat municipal decay in New Haven, Boston and New York State, died on Thursday at his home in West Tisbury, Mass. He was 78. In a career spanning three decades, Mr. Logue spent the 1950's renewing
 Francis Haskell, who wrote influential books on art patronage and the history of taste and who was a professor of art history at Oxford University from 1967 to 1995, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Oxford, England. He was 71. The cause was liver cancer, said a spokesman for The New Y
 Friedrich Gulda, an iconoclastic Austrian pianist and composer who was as renowned for his jazz performances as for the intellectual clarity of his Bach, Mozart and Beethoven interpretations, died on Thursday at his home in Weissenbach, Austria. He was 69. The Austria Press Agency r
 David R. Williams Jr., an industrialist and engineering innovator whose companies built and operated oil and gas pipelines in North and South America and the Middle East, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said his son David R. William
 Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the monumental 1984 dismemberment of American Telephone and Telegraph, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old. The cause was a cerebral h
 Jester Hairston, a veteran character actor and a conductor and arranger who was praised as one of the leading authorities on black choral music, died Jan. 18 in Los Angeles. He was 98. Mr. Hairston came to Hollywood in 1935 as the assistant conductor for the Hall Johnson choir, whic
 Lee Robert Bobker, a documentary filmmaker whose work won three Academy Award nominations and an Emmy nomination, died on Dec. 28 at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 74 and lived in Greenwich. Mr. Bobker did his best-known movie work in the 1960's, directing three films tha
 Marshall C. England, who left a job as a schoolteacher in the racially segregated South of the 1950's and eventually became an influential advocate for the poor and working class of New York City, died on Jan. 22 in Manhattan. He was 67. He died at Bellevue Hospital Center of compli
 Dennis Severs, an American whose youthful passion for storytelling led him to London, where he turned a five-story 18th-century house into a musty, magical time machine for paying visitors, died of cancer on Dec. 27. He was 51. The house, which existed in space at 18 Folgate Street 
 George Dorsey Braden, a legal consultant on constitutional issues, died Jan. 3 at his home in Brooklyn. A former resident of Schenectady, N.Y., and Scarborough, Me., he was 85. A native of Indianapolis, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Swarthmore College in 1938 and graduated from Y
 Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the dismemberment in 1984 of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause of his death was a c
 John J. Gaherin, a negotiator who represented New York newspaper publishers and the owners of Major League Baseball in the 1960's and 70's and helped write baseball's first labor contracts and pension plan, died on Jan. 24 at Cape Cod Hospital Extended Care in Hyannis, Mass. He was 85 and l
 Josh Clayton-Felt, a rock singer, guitarist and songwriter, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. He was 32. The cause was cancer, said Robert Weide, a friend. Mr. Clayton-Felt, who grew up in Boston, took an early interest in music because of the influence of his stepfather, Henr
 Kevin B. Crimmins, former chairman and president of Thomas Crimmins Contracting, once a prominent builder in the New York metropolitan area, died Jan. 21 at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 64. The cause was leukemia, said a daughter, Pamela Crimmins of Manhattan. Mr. Crimmi
