 C. Roland Christensen, an influential Harvard Business School professor who helped create the field of business strategy and was an authority on the use of the case method in teaching, died on Saturday. He was 80. He died at St. Thomas Hospital in Nashville from complications after 
 WELLES-James Bell, Jr. Devoted husband, father and grandfather, died Saturday, August 28 after a brief illness. Mr. Welles is survived by his beloved wife of 52 years, Ann Thom Welles, and their children Nancy W. Leahy, James B. Welles III, Thomas B. Welles and Amy B. Welles. Son William B.
 DANOS-Michael. Theoretical physicist, Visiting Scholar at the Enrico Fermi Institute, Univ. of Chicago, formerly of the National Institute of Standards & Technology. Born January 10, 1922, Riga, Latvia, died Washington, Aug. 30, 1999 after a stroke. Loved and honored by his wife, Sheila Fit
 DIKER-Bertram J. Died August 29, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rhona. Loving father of Susan and son-in-law William. Devoted and loving grandfather of Alexandra. He is also survived by his brother Charles. Born in New York on April 6, 1931, he was the son of Helen Hoffner an
 ENDRESEN-Bergthor F., a prominent aviation businessman, formerly of Rye, NY, and a resident of Fisher Island, Florida, died on August 25 at his home. He was 78. Mr. Endresen was born in Norway and served as a pilot with the Royal Norwegian Air Force during World War II. He later became the 
 HUTCHEON-Willard. Died August 28th, 1999 in Tucson, Arizona where he had been living since 1995. He was loved by Jamie, wife and companion of twenty-five Years, by Monnie, sister-in-law & friend, by Karin, step-daughter, by friends, colleagues and countless former students. Willard was reti
 KATCHEN-Harry, Rabbi. Age 91. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Following ordination, he was rabbi of Beth El in Allentown, PA and until his retirement, he served in Outreach and Community Education for the Jewish Theological Seminary. After his retirement, he was 
 LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. On August 30, 1999. Marcia, his one true love whom he cherished for 30 years. Adored father of Andy Sam and Jessie. Loving son of Irving. Dearest brother of Brian and Scot. Treasured brother-in-law of Phyllis and Neil Koenig. Devoted uncle of Rebecca and Gaby. Beloved son
 MARSH-Arthur. Life long subscriber, Dr. Arthur J. Marsh, 85, read his last copy of The New York Times on August 27, 1999. Father of three children and seven grandchildren.       
 PACHARZ-Henry R. Retired C.P.A. of Clifton, NJ. Formerly of Rockville Centre and NYC. Beloved husband of the late Betty and Lillian, devoted father of Rose G. Valentine and Richard W. Pacharz, dear brother of the late Marie Marbach and his late twin brother Sidney, precious grandfather and 
 PAGANO-Deborah. The Park Avenue Christian Church Day School Advisory Board expresses heartfelt sadness to Co-Chair Vincent Pagano and to his sons, Ben and Will, upon the passing of their beloved wife and mother. Debbie's indomitable spirit and strength of purpose remain an inspiration to us
 ROMNEY-Andrew F. On August 30, 1999 at age 74. Beloved father of Michael and Mark Romney and Sharon Scott. Devoted grandfather of Andrew, Matthew, Theodore, Lewis and Hannah. Dear brother of Henry Romney. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, September 
 SCHWARTZ-David, Dr. Mt. Horeb Lodge FS of I, announces with deep regret the passing of a devoted member, Past President, Secretary of the Insurance Fund, Secretary of Mt. Horeb Lodge for over 40 years. His devotion to the Lodge will be long remembered and his memory will be an everlasting t
 SULLIVAN-William Mayo. On August 31, 1999 at age 78 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Francoise M. Sullivan, loving brother of Raymond P. Sullivan, Jr., Molly Sullivan, Katherine S. Meehan and the late John McNamee Sullivan. Devoted uncle of twelve nieces and nephews. Visiting hours 
 WENDELL-Leonard G. On August 30, 1999. Dearest friend of so very many years. Generous of heart, enthusiastic and always ready to uplift. Condolences to his caring, beloved, loving Marilyn. Lloyd and Kappy Isler Wendy, Scott and Kenneth       
 Prof. William Albert Niering, an internationally recognized expert on the ecology of wetlands and tidal marshes, died Monday in New London, where he had just addressed the incoming class of 2003 at Connecticut College. He was 75 and lived in Gales Ferry, Conn. He collapsed on the ca
 Dr. Waldo Cohn, a biochemist involved in building the world's first nuclear bomb and later a pioneer in using radioactive isotopes for medical research, died on Friday at a hospital in Oak Ridge, Tenn., where he lived. He was 89. During World War II, Dr. Cohn worked on the Manhattan
 Eugene Ostroff, a former curator of photography at the Smithsonian Institution, an authority on the history of photography as a technology and an influential lecturer and writer on photographic conservation, died on Aug. 26 in Washington, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was can
 AMENDOLA-Anthony Joseph. On August 29, 1999. Anthony was born in Manhattan, New York on May 18, 1926. Served in US Navy and graduated from Columbia University. For twenty-two years he was an experienced marketing management executive. His background included a major role in creating one of 
 BERNSTEIN-Abraham A., 93, of Southbury, CT, formerly of NYC. Loving and beloved husband of Belle (Zap). Cherished father of Felice Yager (Henry). Proud grandfather of Alison and Jessica. Devoted brother of Lillian (Steinberg), Fannie (Hardy), and the late Harry and Bernetta (Smith). Affecti
 BLOOMBERG-Harriet. Our deepest and most profound sympathy to our dear friend, Jeffrey Bloomberg, on the passing of his mother, Harriet Bloomberg. May beautiful memories bring comfort to Jeffrey and his family. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol       
 BROWNSTEIN-Stanley. Beloved husband for 48 years of Hilda. Loving father of Elliot, Susan and son-in-law Steven. Cherished grandfather of Caryn, Matthew and Alexa. Services are at Parkside Memorial Chapel, Brooklyn (opposite Kings Plaza), Thursday, September 2nd, 11:30 AM. He will live in o
 DIKER-Bertram J. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Bertram J. Diker, beloved brother of Charles M. Diker, a generous, dedicated supporter and cherished friend of the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences
 GOLDMAN-Rose. We express profound sorrow at the passing of the beloved mother of our colleague, Dr. I. David Goldman, Director of the Albert Einstein Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Susan Resnick Fisher Professor of Brain Tumor Research at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yesh
 LEVINE-Irving V. Of Miami, FL. Beloved husband of Emma. Treasured uncle of Arthur, Harvey, Orrin, Janet, Shirley, Evalyn, Stephen and Howard. His greatest joy was bringing happiness to our lives and filing our days with laughter. Fond memories will remain in our hearts forever.       
 PESSO-Charles. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhurst, N.Y., & the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the sudden and tragic passing of Charles Pesso, President of the Congregation. A Founder of the congregation, he served in every capacity a
 ROMNEY-Andrew F. On August 30, 1999 at age 74. Beloved father of Michael and Mark Romney and Sharon Scott. Devoted grandfather of Andrew, Matthew, Theodore, Lewis and Hannah. Dear brother of Henry Romney. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, September 
 ROYCE-Milton E. Age 83, of Glen Cove, NY, August 30, 1999. Loving husband of Dolores. Father of Stephen Royce, Kyle Larsen and Tracey Stoever; grandfather of Gregory, Allen and Lisa Royce, Eric Riddle Larsen, Alex Larsen and Cady Ruth Stoever; loving brother of Lynn Goldberg. Memorial servi
 SHALAT-Herbert, Architect, died Sunday, August 29 at his home on Long Island. He leaves behind his wife of 48 yrs, Ann; his sons and their families, Edward & Sara, Neal and Fiorella, & Andrew and Charissa; and 3 grandchildren Dunham, Erik and Evan Isabel. We love him and we miss him. A memo
 SULLIVAN-William Mayo. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Bill Sullivan, whose commitment to the Metropolitan Opera spanned nearly half a century of participation in the life of our company. Bill joined the Opera Club in 1950, 
 WEISSMAN-Bernard F. September 1, 1999, in NYC. Survived by his sister, Suzanne M. Solomon and nephew Dr. Laurence R. Solomon of England, and his niece, Dr. Anne E. Laumann of Chicago, and nephew Dr. Bernard J. Solomon of Los Angeles, CA. Service Friday, 1:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76th St. a
 WELLES-James Bell Jr. The Board of Directors, Administration and staff of The Burke Rehabilitation Hospital note with deep sorrow the death of James B. Welles, long time friend and President of The Winifred Masterson Burke Foundation, member of the Board of Directors of The Burke Medical Re
 Paul Showers, author of a series of  science books for young readers and a former editor for The New York Times, died on July 17 at the home of his daughter, Dr. Kate B. Showers, in Orange, Mass. He was 89. He wrote some 25 science-related books in the ''Let's Read and Find Out'' se
 William Mayo Sullivan, a New York insurance broker and longtime benefactor of classical music in the city, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 78. The cause was renal cancer, his family said. Mr. Sullivan was a past president of the Metropolitan Opera 
 Alex Haynes, a Ford Motor Company engineer who pioneered safety devices for American cars in the 1950's, died Monday in a nursing home in Stuart, Fla. He was 89. When Mr. Haynes oversaw Ford's development of the auto industry's first comprehensive package of safety equipment, his cr
 Henry E. Singleton, a brilliant engineer who co-founded and built Teledyne Inc. into one of the nation's largest and most enduring conglomerates, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. He was 82. Dr. Singleton made an early mark with te
 Mark Zebrowski, a historian of Islamic art who specialized in Mogul culture of southern India, died on Aug. 22 in London. He was 54. The cause was cancer. While in the Peace Corps in India in 1967, Mr. Zebrowski became interested in Deccani metalwork and manuscript painting,
 Milton Jack Mirman, an authority on United States stamps who was once a major dealer, died last Friday at a hospital in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 84. Mr. Mirman, a longtime resident of Baldwin, N.Y., had moved to an elder-care community in Media, Pa., last year. The cause of d
 AVICK-Jeffrey Jay. On September 1, 1999. Beloved friend of Seth Glassman, treasured son of Ben & Miriam Avick, and dear brother to Kenneth and Patti Mactas. Jeff will be sorely missed by all whose lives he touched whether through his work on the stage, his lovely writing, the abundance of h
 HOWLEY-James Rogers. 57, of Cincinatti, Ohio, a former New Jersey resident died in an automobile accident on August 31st while on business in Indianapolis, Indiana. Mr. Howley was the president and CEO of the Howley Group, Inc., a firm which specialized in investment banking and mergers and
 KLUGERMAN-William. Beloved husband of Liane Renee' survived by his brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews. Service Friday, 11:30AM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 LEVINE-Irving V. Of Miami, FL. Beloved husband of Emma. Treasured uncle of Arthur, Harvey, Orrin, Janet, Shirley, Evalyn, Stephen and Howard. His greatest joy was bringing happiness to our lives and filling our days with laughter. Fond memories will remain in our hearts forever.       
 MURRAY-Thomas Francis, 56, on Wednesday, September 1, 1999 at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, PA. He is survived by his wife Marie (Vigilante) of 33 years; son Thomas F. III and two daughters Cynthia Murray and Marisa Murray. He also leaves his three brothers Josep
 PESSO-Charles. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhurst, N.Y., & the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the sudden and tragic passing of Charles Pesso, President of the Congregation. A Founder of the congregation, he served in every capacity a
 PORGES-Walter. On September 1, 1999 at 67. Beloved husband of Jean and loving father of Donald, Marian and Lawrence. Brother of Lisl Schick. Services on Friday, September 3rd, at 11:15 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Memorial contributions may be made to The Por
 SMITH-Robert A., 62, of Brielle, N.J., died Thursday, September 2, in Albany, N.Y. Mr. Smith, a former local builder, real estate developer, philanthropist and owner of Riviera Realty, was born in New Brunswick, N.J., and lived in Brick, N.J., prior to moving to Brielle. He earned a B.A. de
 SULLIVAN-William Mayo. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Bill Sullivan, whose commitment to the Metropolitan Opera spanned nearly half a century of participation in the life of our company. Bill joined the Opera Club in 1950, 
 WEISSMAN-Bernard F. All of his many friends at Smith Barney Asset Management mourn the loss of our dear colleague Bernie. He was in his 55th year at our Firm. He served his many clients quietly and effectively. They and we will greatly miss him.       
 Charles E. Perry, who turned an abandoned airfield on the fringes of the Everglades into Florida International University, died on Monday at his home in Rockwall, Tex. He was 62. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by the university. Mr. Perry, who was th
 Stanley Alexander Weigel, a retired Federal judge who had ordered California to improve living conditions in prisons and, earlier in his career, had defended professors dismissed for refusing to take a loyalty oath, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. Mr. Weig
 AMABILE-Anthony (Tony W.) of Sea Bright, NJ, formerly of the Bronx, New York on September 3, 1999. Survived by his beloved Chris Howard, father of Jeanine, son of Josephine and the late Joseph Amabile. Also survived by Jeanine's fiancee, Michael Iovino. Visitation on Saturday, 7-9PM and Sun
 GILHOOLEY-John Joseph Jr., 48. Of Vero Beach, died unexpectedly August 29, 1999 at his residence. Mr. Gilhooley was born December 18, 1950 in Brooklyn, New York, and moved to Vero Beach 2 years ago, from Franklin Lakes, NJ. Surviving are mother, Josephine of Vero Beach, FL; brothers, Paul o
 JACKSON-Lionel Stewart Sr. Former publisher of the New Haven Register and Journal-Courier Newspapers died peacefully at home in Montecito, California on September 1, 1999 after a long illness. His loving wife Patricia Hope Johnstone Jackson, sister Katherine Reece, daughters Susan Cartier, 
 PORGES-Walter. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Walter Porges, the brother of Lisl Schick, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Execut
 Walter O. Wells, a former chairman of the Schult Homes Corporation, who helped start mobile homes on the road to what became the manufactured housing industry in the United States, died Monday at his home in Elkhart, Ind. He was 87. Mr. Wells's career in mobile homes began as a cler
 Edward Charles Bassett, a widely praised architect whose work ranged from San Francisco's symphony hall to the United States Embassy in Moscow, died last Saturday in a San Francisco hospital. He was 77 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was a stroke he had suffered 10 days e
 FINKELSTEIN-Leonard. 75. Loving husband of the late Bernice; devoted father of Ron, Linda, and Susan; beloved brother of Janice; caring grandfather to Bryan and Ian. We admire and cherish his strength, resilience, and devotion to family. We will miss him.       
 GUBER-Arthur H. On September 3, 1999. Loving father of Stacy and Edmund; adoring grandfather of Alexander. Family and friends mourn the loss of this special man. He will be deeply missed. Graveside service to be held Sunday, 3 PM, Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale.       
 JABLON-David. Loving father of Jessica and Daniel, Anne and Herbert's son, Rabbi Moshe Jablon's brother, died of a heart attack on August 31. Graduated first in his class at NYU Law, V.P. Bell Yarn Co., member of KJ, 92nd St. Y and others. He is mourned and missed by family and friends.    
 KEATING-Edward F. Jr., 71. Of Hilton Head Island, SC, died on September 1, 1999 at the Hilton Head Medical Center and Clinics after a long illness. Loving husband of 46 years to Lila Elliott Keating and caring father to Edward, Elizabeth, Michael, Mary and Matthew. Dear brother to Jack, Dic
 LAPINE-David S. Of Stamford, CT and Lauderhill, FL died on Friday September 3. Survived by his children Phyllis, Mark, Lawrence and James; his nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild. The company which bore Mr. Lapine's name was widely considered a leader in the housewares industry. Mr.
 LINCHNER-Nathan (Nat Linch), Welterweight, Landlord, Beachbum. Born 1912. Died August 30. Brother of the late Rabbi Alexander, husband of the late Helen, companion of Pearl Finkelstein, father of Ronald and Mark, grandfather of Casey Hope. Private ceremony will be held on his beach.       
 MANDRAKOS-Leo. The Trustees, Fellows and staff of the Manhattan Institute greatly mourn the loss of our good friend Leo Mandrakos. ''He held his seat; a friend to human race. Fast by the road, his ever open door obliged the wealthy, and relieved the poor.'' Homer. We shall miss him-his pass
 MEYER-Max. 92. Died suddenly on Saturday, September 4. Loving husband of Sophie; husband of the late Ruth Meyer; father of Caryl Lieberman and the late Susan Danzig; also father to Herbert, Arnold, Bill, Rosalie, and Richard. Loving grandfather of Steven, Beth, Jodi, Dana, Chai, Chad, Steph
 SOLMSSEN-Max A. Died peacefully on August 10, 1999 at his Chilmark, MA summer home at age 91. Born in Berlin, Germany. Resided in Summit, NJ from 1938-1997 when he moved to a retirement community, Winchester Gardens, Maplewood, NJ. Former President and Owner of the Perolin Company, headquar
 STEIN-Louis Henry, M.D., D.D.S. A retired surgeon of White Plains, NY, and Stratton Mountain, VT, died September 2, 1999. He attended Lehigh University and the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry, and Jefferson Medical College. Dr. Stein practiced surgery in Westchester and Rockl
 E. J. B. (Jim) Rose, who worked with the legendary British code breakers at Bletchley Park during World War II, died on May 20 in Sussex. He was 89. The advance knowledge of German plans, so laboriously deciphered at Bletchley Park, helped Britain when it was fighting alone against 
 Jascha Zayde, a pianist, composer and conductor who for more than three decades gave weekly performances on WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Zayde was the first staff musician hired by W
 Lionel S. Jackson Sr., the former publisher of The New Haven Register and The New Haven Journal-Courier, died on Wednesday at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Jackson, who retired in the 1980's, was a son of John Day Jackson, who bought The Journal-Courier, a morning pap
 WALSH-James Walter Jr., 69. Of Ramsey, NJ, died suddenly on Friday, September 3, 1999. Mr. Walsh was the loving husband of Nancy and devoted father of James III and Victoria. Mr. Walsh was a graduate of Rutgers University and a retired Vice President of Advertising for Merrill Lynch & Co. i
 ZAYDE-Jascha. Concert pianist and musician. Beloved husband of Leah. Adoring father of Caren and loving father-in-law of George. Funeral service 11 AM, Tuesday, September 7, at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 Street, New York City. ZAYDE-Jascha. The Board of Directors of The B
 Allen Funt, the creator and original host of ''Candid Camera,'' network television's kindhearted snare for the unwary, died on Sunday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 84. His family said the cause was  complications from a serious stroke suffered in 1993. Mr. Funt retired 
 Bert MacLeech, an associate professor emeritus at the University of Southern California and a leader in the 1950's movement to provide community-based services for handicapped young people, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 90. With his wife, the former Pearl Raza, 
 COOPER-David. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved younger brother of its devoted parents and generous benefactors Barry and Mark Cooper. We also extend heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Adrienne Cooper, a cherished alumna. May the family be comforted among all th
 DIXON-Palmer. Died suddenly of a heart attack on the morning of September 3rd at his home in Wilton, CT. He was born July 1, 1928 in New York City, the son of W. Palmer Dixon and Theodora Thorpe Dixon. He attended St. Mark's School, and graduated from Harvard College, Class of 1950. He serv
 HOGAN-Richard John. Of Fairfax, VA, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, died September 3, 1999. Son of Madeleine M. Hogan and the late John V. Hogan, father of Lesley Elisabeth Hogan and Scott R.J. Hogan, brother of Douglas R. Hogan and Russell P. Hogan, former husband of Joanne Sherman Hogan. Gr
 LEE-James Wideman II. Age 93, a resident of Dorset, VT., and husband of May Foote Lee died September 5. Following graduation from Princeton, he joined Ivy Lee and T.J. Ross as a public relations counselor. A memorial service will be held September 10 at 10 AM at the United Church of Dorset 
 LEVINE-Solomon, 76. Of Miami, formerly of NYC, died on August 12. Loving father of Judy. Proud grandfather of Daniel and Alexander Komanoff, dear brother-in-law of George (the late Shirley) Bosin, devoted uncle to his many nieces and nephews. Services were held in Miami.       
 LUKASH-Alvin. 81, died Saturday, September 4, 1999 in Pompano Beach, FL. Born in New York City June 12, 1918, he was the son of the late Samuel and Bessie Lukash. He leaves his much loved children, Seth Lukash of Westport, and Laura Lukash Knee and her husband Thomas of Avon. Poppy Al also 
 MOCCIO-Carmine. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of a dear friend and colleague, Carmine Moccio, M.D. A respected vascular and thoracic surgeon at North Shore University Hospital for more than 20 years, Dr. Moccio was a compassionate physician who took excellent care of his
 OKEN-Abraham, 93. Of New York City. Died peacefully on Sunday, September 5. Loving husband of the late Clara. Beloved father to Rita, Jack and Nancy. Grandfather to Andy, Rob, Jeff, Jennifer, Gregory, Cindy and Toni Ann. Great-grandfather to Matthew & Gianna. We will miss his strength and w
 PLISKOW-Mark Alan. Beloved husband of Stacie Bryce Feldman. Devoted father of Adam and Benjamin. Loving son of Janice and Morris Pliskow and owner of Wheatley. Loving son-in-law, brother, brother-in law, father-inlaw and uncle. Mark was a zealous trial attorney who vigorously litigated his 
 RITTER-Sheldon. Devoted, loving husband of Florence and father of Eric, on September 4th of heart failure. He was formerly president and owner of the Advertising and Public Relations Co., Crown Communications; charter and Chai member of Fresh Meadows Jewish Center and twice past-president o
 SORRE-Lucio. The Society of Wine Educators mourns the passing of its President, and extends condolences to his dear family and to Banfi Vintners-strong supporters of wine education. We will miss his warm and wise words. Mark Chandler, Acting President Richard Carras, Immediate Past-Presiden
 VASSILIEV-Igor Vladimirovitch. The Members, Directors and Officers of the Russian Nobility Association in America deeply regret the untimely death of their esteemed Director and Corporate Secretary while on vacation in Europe. Born in Riga, Latvia, he was a highly regarded construction engi
 Alan Clark, the outrageously acerbic Conservative Member of Parliament whose witty, waspish political diaries by turns skewered his colleagues, gave vent to his splenetic opinions, and unashamedly celebrated his love of women other than his wife, died suddenly at home in Kent on Sunday, thr
 Barry Shipp, a perfume salesman who discovered an aromatic oil being sold in a drug paraphernalia shop and developed it into a multimillion-dollar business called Jovan Musk, died Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 62. He died of a heart attack, said his daughter, Lara Shipp.    
 BARENHOLTZ-Steven Howard, 44, of Ossining, NY died suddenly on August 29 at his home. Born in New York City, he was an author, lecturer and consultant to the restaurant industry. Son of Evelyn Barenholtz of Syracuse, NY and the late Morton Barenholtz, he is also survived by brothers Jan of 
 BELLOW-Nathan, 85, on Friday, September 3, 1999 of natural causes. A graduate of St. John's School of Law, served in U.S. Army Intelligence during WWII. Retired in recent years from executive position with a telecommunications company in New York. Survivors include his niece, Ruth Seigel, G
 COOPER-David. S/A/R Academy students, faculty, parents and Board of Trustees notes with sadness and sorrow the untimely passing of our friend, supporter and Trustee. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his beloved wife Adrienne (1978) and adoring children Naomi (5th grade), Emily (2nd gra
 DeSIMONE-Jim. The staff and students of Stuyvesant High School mourn the sudden death of their beloved and respected swimming coach. We send our deepest condolences to his family. Jimmy will be sorely missed by the entire Stuyvesant community. Stanley Teitel, Principal Stuyvesant High Schoo
 DIXON-Palmer. Died suddenly of a heart attack on the morning of September 3rd at his home in Wilton, CT. He was born July 1, 1928 in New York City, the son of W. Palmer Dixon and Theodora Thorpe Dixon. He attended St. Mark's School, and graduated from Harvard College, Class of 1950. He serv
 GOLDMAN-Hon. Leonard. The Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, Domain of New York mourns the passing of one of their most distinguished members, Grand Secretary Hon. Leonard Goldman on September 2, 1999. To his wife Sheryl, son Robert, mother and sisters, we extend our heartfelt condolences in t
 KNAPP-Harry. Of Stonington, CT, born in New York City, he was the son of Elizabeth M. and Harry K. Knapp. He served as Investment Advisor and Board Member of the Bafflin Foundation, a non-profit ecological group. Survived by his wife, Marie-Louise Ehrensvard Weidermann Knapp, 2 daughters, S
 LUPARELLO-Michael. We at Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder, Inc. are deeply saddened at the loss of our dear friend, Michael. You were an inspiration to all who worked with you and we are better for having had the privilege of knowing you. You will be forever in our hearts. We extend our condolen
 MARQUSEE-John Edward. A compassionate businessman, with a deep concern for, and commitment to, social and racial justice died September 6th, after a long illness. He leaves Janet, his wife of 47 years; his children Mike and Liz, Jeff, Joanne and Larry, Susan and Alan, and Ellen and Barry, e
 MOSS-David. 73, Of Fresh Meadows NY. He was an off broadway pioneer. He produced two Off Broadway shows (Revivals of Tobacco Road and Enemy of the People-Provincetown playhouse). As an actor he appeared in numerous off broadway, summer stock, and channel thirteen productions. He was the dra
 PAI-Narayan B., M.D., F.A.C.S. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and the entire Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center family mourn the passing of Dr. Narayan B. Pai, Chief of Vascular Surgery, Attending Surgeon, Chairman of the Cred
 PLISKOW-Mark Alan. Beloved husband of Stacie Bryce Feldman. Devoted father of Adam and Benjamin. Loving son of Janice and Morris Pliskow, loving grandson and owner of Wheatley. Loving son-in-law, brother, brother-in law, father-in-law and uncle. Mark was a zealous trial attorney who vigorou
 PRICE-Norman, 75. Died August 28, 1999, New York City. Loving husband of Elsie of Manhattan, and father of Mathew, Amy and Terence. WWII veteran of the 82nd Airborne. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him.       
 ROTE-Christiaan J.D., age 67, of Dallas and Santa Fe, on Monday, September 6, of cancer. Born in the Netherlands, he became a U.S. Citizen in Seoul, Korea in 1955 while on active military duty. His brokerage career began in Dallas in 1962 with Goodbody & Co. and continued in executive posit
 SHILLIETO-David Stanley, 47, 406 West 48th Street, New York, N.Y. died September 6, 1999, from cancer at his parents home in Burlington Green, N.Y. He was an accomplished pianist, choral director, and singer affiliated with Julliard and other organizations in Manhattan. For information call
 SHIPP-Barry E., age 62. Beloved husband of Mary Ellen, nee Dimetros; loving father of Lara, Drew and Gregg; dear brother-in-law of Fred (Jackie) Dimetros and the late George Dimetros; fond uncle of Jonandra and Alexandra; devoted friend to Jude Augustine; also survived by his many loving re
 SILFEN-Daniel W., DDS (Dan) on September 6, 1999 in his 78th year. Beloved husband of Mildred (deceased), dear father of Eric (Marilyn) and Michael (Lucy), brother of Selma and Harvey (deceased); grandfather of Lauren, Diana, Benjamin and Lydia. Attended undergraduate, as well as dental sch
 SILVERSTEIN-Maurice. Maurice ''Red'' Silverstein, well-loved and respected. Vice President of MGM International from 1960-1970. Died on Monday, September 6th, 1999 after a prolonged struggle with Alzheimer's. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth, son Michael, daughters Pam and Diane and ado
 TAMBINI-Louis A. Died on September 5, 1999 at age 70 after a long illness. He was pre-deceased by his first wife Elma (nee Calvi). He is survived by his wife Phyllis Shepard Tambini, a beloved daughter, Amy McMillan Tambini, a stepson Bruce Shepard Newman and a cousin Anna Sterlini. He was 
 WEIDLINGER-Paul. Dedicated and loving husband and father died Sunday, September 5, 1999. He was 84 years old and lived in NYC with his wife, Solveig. He is also survived by his daughter, Pauline Panza, sons, Thomas and Jonathan, and grandsons, Avery and Benjamin Panza. The founder of Weidli
 WISNIEWSKI-Henry M. Professor. Of Staten Island on September 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Krystyna (Nee Wylon). Loving father of Thomas M. and the late Alexander Wisniewski, fond father-in-law of Roma and Sarah A. Wisniewski. Dear brother of Jadwiga Kowalski and Leszek Wisniewski. Cherished 
 ZAYDE-Jascha. WQXR mourns the passing of a valued member of our family: pianist, teacher and WQXR's first Staff Musician/Live Music Coordinator. He will be fondly remembered by his many fiends and former colleagues.       
 Herbert Stein, a free-market economist who used careful analysis and sharp wit to persuade the business community in the 1940's to rally behind the ''unnatural'' idea of using Federal budget deficits to regulate the economy, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 83. The
 BARTEL-Harry, 35, died at his home in Manhattan, on Sunday, September 5. He is survived by his spouse, Brian Landeche; his mother, Eileen Bartel, of Scottsdale, Arizona; his father, Harry Bartel, of Sarasota, Florida; his sister, Donna Bartel, of Seattle; and his brother, Michael Bartel, of
 BRUKENFELD-M. Ronald. Died peacefully the evening of September 7 at the age of 86. He was the beloved son of the late Morris and Sarah Brukenfeld and brother of the late Carl Brukenfeld, Frances Englander and Edith Hirsch. He spent his working life in the investment community, a Member of t
 COOPER-David (Duvi). Our sincerest condolence and love to the Cooper, Miller and Zepnick families. We loved Duvi dearly and we will miss his friendship. Beverly, Allen and Kenny Helfer       
 DIEHL-Michael R. On September 6, 1999. Son of Charles and Patricia Diehl. Brother of Angela Rodgers & Charles F. Diehl, Jr. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, September 9th, 1:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Interment private. Contributions in his memory
 FISHMAN-Julius. Of Palm Beach, Florida on Monday, September 6, 1999, served in the Army Air Corps as a gunner and radio operator during WWII based in England, cofounded Royal Dairy Foods Company, Inc., now a subsidiary of the Fleming Foods, Inc. and was active in many philanthropic causes. 
 GOODWIN - Charles Lawrence, passed away on September 1, at age 77. He was the president of Forest Board Paper Group Inc. He leaves a wife, Clara Goodwin; three children, William Goodwin, James Goodwin and Julie Goodwin Biniaris; son-in-law, Chris Biniaris. daughter-in-law, Angela Goodwin; g
 KANER-Israel ''Izzey'' Levine. On Sept. 6, 1999. Beloved husband of Lea, adored son of Riva, dear brother of Harry (Sonia), and Sara (Ezra), devoted father to Avi (Liz), Celia (Ron), Adi (Dan), loving grandfather to Julia, Ally, Jacob, Jack, and Benjamin. Esteemed religious leader of Shaare
 KOERBER-William C. Jr. Beloved son of William C. Sr. & Genevieve (Jordan) Koerber, died unexpectedly of natural causes at his home in Lebanon, N.H. He was born in New York City on March 1, 1947. At the time of his death, he was employed at DartmouthHitchcock Hospital in Lebanon, N.H. He is 
 MARQUSEE-John Edward. A compassionate businessman, with a deep concern for, and commitment to, social and racial justice died September 6th, after a long illness. He leaves Janet, his wife of 47 years; his children Mike and Liz, Jeff, Joanne and Larry, Susan and Alan, and Ellen and Barry, e
 SHANKMAN - George. Passed away September 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Etta. Devoted father of David and Kathy, Alan and Donna & Steven and Lise. Adoring grandfather of Michael, Jennifer, Jonathan, Alexis, Rebecca and Jack. A compassionate, caring man who will be miss by all who knew him. Ser
 SILFEN-Daniel W. Dr. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Dr. Dan. He was an important part of our lives for nearly 60 years. He was the loving husband of his late wife Milli and we shared a wonderful, caring friendship with them. We extend our deepest sympathy to his sons
 TRUSSELL-Ray E., M.D., MPH. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with great sadness the death of our highly esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Ray Trussell, General Director of Beth Is
 WILNER-David. Devoted husband, father & grandfather died on September 8 of cardiac arrest at his home in NYC. He was a retired Superintendent of School District 24 in Queens, a retired Colonel in the U.S. Army and an active consultant for the Labor Relations Division of the Board of Educati
 WISNIEWSKI-Henry M., M.D., Ph.D. The Department of Neurology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn mourns the passing of our colleague, a world renowned neuroscientist who was Director of the Institute for Basic Research on Staten Island and Professor of Pathology and Neurology at Down
 Shirley F. Bowden, an early advocate of middle-income housing in New York, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 88. Mr. Bowden was founder and president of the Association for Middle Income Housing, which became the Metropolitan Mutual Housing Association. He was 
 Alexi Ramov, a founder of the Northeast Regional Ballet Association and the longtime director of the Ballet Guild of the Lehigh Valley in Pennsylvania, died on Sept. 2 at Manorcare Health Services in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 82. Mr. Ramov, born Joseph E. Kowatch Jr., was a major figure
 Catfish Hunter, the Hall of Fame right-hander who helped pitch the Oakland A's and the Yankees to six pennants in the 1970's, hurled a perfect game and was part of an economic revolution in sports, died yesterday at his home at Hertford, N.C. He was 53. He had been struggling for th
 Gene Federico, a graphic designer and advertising executive who helped introduce a style of typography to American advertising that made the lettering the star, rather than a supporting player, died on Wednesday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 81. He died after an extended b
 Jan Gorbaty, a stylish, white-maned Polish pianist with a patriot's zeal for the music of Chopin who founded the New York chapter of the National Chopin Foundation, died on Monday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 84. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Susan.        
 BODEN-Shirley F. Sixth Avenue Credit Union extends sincerest condolences to the family. He will always be remembered and loved by all who knew him. His efforts brought about the revitalization of the Credit Union. Directors and Officers of The Sixth Avenue Credit Union       
 BRANDES-Richard Neil. Died on August 26th, 1999 in Phoenix, Arizona. He was a founding partner of the law firm Brandes, Lane and Joffe. He is survived by his fiancee Tess Cook, a son Billy Brandes, his father Sol Brandes, a sister Peggy Sylvester and a brother Larry Brandes.       
 DIEHL-Michael R. The Partners, Associates and staff of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson deeply mourn the death of our colleague and friend, Michael Diehl, and extend our sympathy to his family and friends.       
 DUFFY-John James. Died on September 8 on his 77th birthday. Devoted husband of Margery (Watkinson) Duffy. Devoted father of Patrick, Mary, Kathleen, Sean, John-Patrick, Joann Salomons and Eileen Bengyak. Also survived by sisters, Helen Robinson, Jean Murray, Kathleen Flaherty and Dorothy Mu
 MANDEL-Joseph. Died on September 9, 1999, at age 95. Father of Fritzie and the late Jules Fink, and David and Joan. Grandfather of Alan and Cheryl, Ronald and Gail, Kenneth and Jacqui, Alexander, and Jeffrey. Great-grandfather of Jana, Deena, Jordana, Margo and Jacob. Patriarch, role model,
 MARQUSEE-John Edward. A compassionate businessman, with a deep concern for, and commitment to, social and racial justice died September 6th, after a long illness. He leaves Janet, his wife of 47 years; his children Mike and Liz, Jeff, Joanne and Larry, Susan and Alan, and Ellen and Barry, e
 PITTMAN-Kennieth ''Ken,'' one of Manhattanville College's most beloved professors, died on September 8 at the Westchester Medical Center. He was 53 years old. Professor Pittman was an authority on social and political conditions in Mexico and Latin America, and he was widely published and o
 SCHNEIDER-Elliot Bernard, 74, of Little Silver, N.J., died September 8 at home. He was an economist and a nationally recognized expert on government-sponsored securities, such as Fannie Mae. He was Director of Perspective Research and a senior vice president at Gruntal & Co., Inc., New York
 TRUSSELL-Ray E. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ray E. Trussell, a cherished friend who was greatly admired for his outstanding contributions to the healthcare field as the former General Director of Beth Israel Medical Center, 
 WALLACE-Walter (Wally). Well loved theater booster and community activist died Tuesday, September 7 at his sister's home in Bronxville, NY. Wally was a proud member of the gay community & active in Greenwich Village and Chelsea. Wally was born May 12, 1938 in Cresskill, NJ. A gathering for 
 WISNIEWSKI-Henry M., Dr. The Board of Directors, Members, Staff and Program Participants of AHRC New York City wish to express their condolences to Dr. Krystyna Wisniewski on the passing of her husband, Dr. Henry M. Wisniewski, Director of the Institute for Basic Research in Developmental D
 Alfredo Kraus, a lyric tenor who was revered for the refinement of his phrasing and the artistry he brought to bel canto roles, died yesterday at his home in Madrid. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Although he never received the kind of popular a
 Herbert J. Alexander, an internationally known mathematician who had solved several complex problems that had baffled mathematicians for years, died on Aug. 27 in Evanston, Ill. He was 58. The cause of death was lymphoma, said his wife, Susan Alexander. Dr. Alexander, who li
 BRUKENFELD-M. Ronald. Died peacefully the evening of September 7 at the age of 86. He was the beloved son of the late Morris and Sarah Brukenfeld and brother of the late Carl Brukenfeld, Frances Englander and Edith Hirsch. He spent his working life in the investment community, a Member of t
 CAMHE-Morris. To the Camhe family. We offer our sincerest sympathy for the loss of our esteemed associate. His spirit will always be with us. S. L. Fashions Steve Grabow Mitchell Grabow Anthony Peroni CAMHE-Morris. The Jack Martin Fund regrets the passing of its long time benefactor
 DICKINSON-Corrine E. Goldsmith. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health are deeply saddened by the passing of Corrine Goldsmith Dickinson, beloved daughter of our esteemed Trustee Clifford H. Goldsmith. We joi
 GORBATY-Jan. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Jan Gorbaty on September 6, 1999 in New York City. A native of Poland, Jan Gorbaty was not only an acclaimed concert pianist, but also an indefatigable champion
 KRAUS-Alfredo. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of a unique artist and beloved colleague, Alfredo Kraus. His impeccable sense of style, aristocratic stage presence, and great warmth made him an ideal exponent of the lyrical roles of the Bel Canto and French repertories. Of his
 LANDI-Andrew P., Rev. Msgr. On September 8, 1999. Survived by his sister Annette M. Landi and eight nephews and nieces. Services will be held at St. Stephen's Church, East 28th St. between 3rd and Lexington Aves., NYC. Mass of Transferral on Sunday, 7:30 PM, and viewing in Church, 6:30-7:15
 LANDI-Msgr. Andrew P. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired assistant director of Catholic Relief Services on Sept. 8. Mass of Transferral in St. Stephen Church, 142 East 29th St, Manhattan, Sunday, September 12, at 7:30 P.M. Funeral Mass on Monday, Sept. 13, at 10A.M. 
 PATTERSON-Donald C. Jr. Of Chatham on September 9, 1999. Husband of the late Marguerite ''Miggie'' C. Patterson. Father of Richard B. of Venice, FL; Gail Anne Yorkston of Boonton; and Donald C. of Hatfield, PA. Grandfather of Chris and Andrew Chappell, Ken and Susan Patterson, and Leah Patt
 Dr. Ray E. Trussell, a former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City and later the general director of Beth Israel Medical Center  in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. In the 1960's, Dr. Trussell was a passionate advocate of better health care for
 John K. Tabor, a lawyer who was prominent in Republican Party politics in Pennsylvania in the 1960's and was Under Secretary of Commerce in the Nixon Administration, died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. He was 78 and lived in Washington. From 1973, when President Richard M. Nixon named
 Dr. John Laurence McHugh, a former professor of marine resources at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on Aug. 20 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 87. Dr. McHugh, who lived in McLean, Va., was born on Nov. 24, 1911, in Vancouver, British Columbia. He received 
 The gaunt, blind musician known as Moondog, who was celebrated among New Yorkers for two decades as a mysterious and extravagantly garbed street performer but who went on to win acclaim in Europe as an avant-garde composer, conducting orchestras before royalty, died Wednesday in a hospital 
 BRUKENFELD-M. Ronald Died peacefully the evening of September 7 at the age of 86. He was the beloved son of the late Morris and Sarah Brukenfeld and brother of the late Carl Brukenfeld, Frances Englander and Edith Hirsch. He spent his working life in the investment community, a Member of th
 CAMHE-Morris On September 9, 1999. Husband of the late Libby. Beloved father of Jack, Renee, Pamela, Louis, Mona and Samuel. Cherished grandfather of Mace, Todd, Charles, Sara, Robert, Lee, Lauren, Alexis, Melanie and Little Mace. Devoted brother and uncle. He will be missed by the many peo
 COHEN-Moses H. We are deeply saddened by the death of our long time, dear friend Moe, who brought warmth, joy and sweetness into the lives of everyone who knew him. He will be missed by all. Naomi, Ed and Family       
 FEDERICO-Gene Survived by his wife, Helen Federico, daughters Lisa Federico, Hillsdale, NY and Gina Federico, New Canaan, CT, sons-in-law Michael Goodman, Hillsdale, NY and Tom Andersen, New Canaan, CT, grandchildren Federico and Decker Goodman and Muriel and Kaare Andersen, sisters Sylvia 
 GORBATY-Jan The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Jan Gorbaty on September 6, 1999 in New York City. A native of Poland, Jan Gorbaty was not only an acclaimed concert pianist, but also an indefatigable champion 
 GOULD-David The International Debutante Ball Committees are deeply sadened by the loss of our dear friend, David Gould who for 43 years so capably oversaw the Ball's publicity. We will miss his warm and wise presence. Margaret Joyce Hedberg, Chairman       
 HALL-John Hudson Of Greenwich, CT, and Morris, NY, died on September 10, 1999. He was a direct descendant of Lewis R. Morris, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and the greatgrandson of William Andrews Clark, the first Senator from Montana and a noted art collector. He received a B
 HERSH-Robert Tweed of Lawrence, KS and formerly of Cleveland, OH and New York City passed away on August 31 at the age of 71. Mr. Hersh graduated from Columbia College, NY in 1947 and worked as a Physicist at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital from 1947-1951. He completed his doctorate in bioph
 HOOG-Armand Of Barnstable, MA, formerly of Princeton, NJ and Bar-Sur-Loup, France, September 10, 1999. Professor Emeritus at Princeton University, scholar and novelist. Beloved husband of Marie-Jaques (Debrix). Father of Isabelle Hoog Naginski of Concord, MA, Guillaume Hoog of Barnstable an
 LANDI-Andrew P., Rev. Msgr. On September 8, 1999. Survived by his sister Annette M. Landi and eight nephews and nieces. Services will be held at St. Stephen's Church, East 28th St. between 3rd and Lexington Aves., NYC. Mass of Transferral on Sunday, 7:30 PM, and viewing in Church, 6:30-7:15
 OGULL-Louis 87. Beloved husband of the late Marion Greenberg Ogull, loving father of Judith I. Kennedy and her husband George, devoted grandfather of Lisa A. Kennedy and David R. Kennedy (all of Albuquerque, NM), dear brother of Essie Solof (Hollywood, FL), died September 3, 1999 at home wh
 SMILEY-Irving After a long illness, on September 9, 1999, of the age of 85. Widower of Molly Moses-Smiley and cherished father and best friend of Stuart, Frank and Arlene Weisberg. Beloved father-in-law of Larry. The loss of this warm man is felt by all. He will be truly missed by everyone 
 CHADBOURN-John A., Dr. A memorial service for Dr. John A. Chadbourn will be held on Wednesday, September 15, 1:00 P.M. in the Elizabeth Ann Seton Chapel at Saint Vincents Hospital, 170 W. 12th St., corner of 7th Ave, NYC. In memory of Dr. Chadbourn and in consultation with his family, the D
 Beau Jocque, whose deep, bluesy voice and muscular zydeco band made him the top draw in the zydeco dance halls of the Louisiana bayou, died on Friday at his home in Kinder, La. He was 45. The cause was apparently a heart attack, reported The Daily Advertiser of Lafayette, La.       
 Mcwayizeni Ka Dinizulu, the most senior Prince of the Zulu people of South Africa, died on Tuesday, the South African Government has announced. He was 67. His family said he had been sick for more than two years, The Associated Press reported. Mcwayizeni was a controversial 
 Momcilo Djujic, a Serbian warrior-priest who fought as a Chetnik commander in epic World War II battles in Yugoslavia, died Saturday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 92. Mr. Djujic, who lived in San Marcos, Calif., was in the view of some Serbs the last great ''Vojvoda,'' the desig
 CAMHE-Morris. On September 9, 1999. Devoted son of the late Jacob and Rebecca Camhe. Husband of the late Libby. Beloved father of Jack, Renee, Pamela, Louis, Mona and Samuel. Cherished grandfather of Mace, Todd, Charles, Sara, Robert, Lee, Lauren, Alexis, Melanie and Little Mace. Devoted br
 GOLDBERG-Eugene. On September 11, 1999. Survived by his devoted sister Frances Ross, loving niece and nephew Lesley and Jeffrey Meersand, and their children Austin and Andrew. Funeral services are today at 10:30 AM, graveside, at Knollwood Park Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY. For further informatio
 KALTMAN-Leo (aka Lee Kayman). Travel counselor, writer and actor, passed away September 10, 1999. Loving father of Alan Kaltman, beloved brother of Trudy Eber. Cherished friend of Barbara Crames. Beloved uncle of Stuart Eber. His wit and understanding enhanced our lives, and he will be sore
 McGINN-Joseph T., Sr., M.D. Of Breezy Point, Queens, on September 10 at home at age 74. Devoted husband of Rosemary (nee Smith) for 47 years. Beloved father of Rosemary Astakhova, Joseph Jr., M.D., William, Maryellen Power, Thomas, M.D., Clare Carrubba and Bryan. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs
 SEYMOUR-Willard. Beloved son of Tessie B. Herskovitz and the late Leonard H. Herskovitz. Adored brother of Seymour Herskovitz, his wife Marilyn, and the late Eve Fried. Doting uncle of Amy Herskovitz, Karen and Bill Ackman, Leonard Fried and John Mann. He was well loved and will be sorely m
 STEIN-Herbert, Dr. The American Israel Economic Corporation mourns the passing of one of its founders, a brilliant economist and champion of free enterprise. May his memory be blessed. Dr. Mordecai Hacohen Chairman of the Board American Israel Economic Corp       
 STONE-Samuel (Doc). Beloved son of the late Rose and Morton Stone, brother, brother-in-law, uncle and cherished friend, died peacefully on the evening of tenth September at the age of 83. Sam was a noble soul who brought joy into many lives. He leaves behind his sister, Shirley Stone Rod an
 WAGNER-Ralph C., 84, a resident of Paradise Valley, AZ, died September 10, 1999. He moved to Arizona in 1995 from Fairfield, CT. He was President of Sales for Encyclopedia Britannica and played professional football for the Chicago Bears. He also loved to coach football and baseball and was
 WHELAN-William Edward. On September 9, 1999. Deeply loved and cherished husband and best friend of Agatha Munhall Whelan went to the God he loved so much. Also survived by his sister, Mary Whelan Phelan and his brothers, Charles and Robert and 15 nieces and nephews and 33 grandnieces and ne
 Stanley M. Simmons, a costume designer for ballet and theater, died on Sept. 4 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, said Eddie Michaels, who is married to Mr. Simmons's niece. Mr. Simmons was known for dance costumes that quietly evoked the
 Otto A. Silha, a onetime copy editor and newspaper marketer who became president and publisher of The Minneapolis Star and Tribune in the 1970's and after retiring in 1984 underwrote a program in media ethics at the University of Minnesota, died Saturday. He was 80. The cause was co
 COHEN-Rabbi Samuel. Jewish National Fund and its Executive and Administrative Boards are saddened by the untimely passing of a dedicated servant of the Jewish people and Israel. Throughout his career he served several different Jewish organization with commitment and tireless effort, but hi
 FELDMAN-Sidney. On September 11, 1999, Physicist, Researcher and Inventor; of Riverdale, NY and Silver Springs, MD. Beloved husband of Eleanore (Levin). Devoted father of Dr. Alisa R. Feldman, Richard K. Feldman and the late Carol E. A. Feldman. Loving brother of William, Henry, Louis and I
 KARP-David. Died September 11. Novelist, screenwriter, TV writer. Beloved husband of Claire and the late Lillian. Father of Ethan and Andrew (Natalie); stepchildren Jessica Leighton (Wayne) and Robert Leighton (Maureen). Adored ''Pa'' of Cara, Alexandra, Erica, Deanna. Born in NYC. Graduate
 LIHME-Edward H. Of Stuart, FL died Saturday, September 11th at the age of 89, after a short illness. He was the retired director of Lihme Properties, a family real estate company, which he operated from his office in Palm Beach. Mr. Lihme attended Roxbury School in Cheshire, Ct and the Univ
 LYNCH-Daniel Joseph. ''Joe Lynch'', 78 a retired Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, past Executive Vice President and Treasurer of Wood, Struthers & Winthrop, and a resident of North Merrick, on September 12, 1999. Survived by his wife Eleanore; his children, Patrick, Michael, 
 LYNCH-Douglas Charles. On September 10, in Westchester, NY, in his 85th year. Formerly of New York City, he was a senior executive with Phelps Dodge, Lynch Corporation, RCA and other international companies, and an author published in three languages. The son of an American Army Officer, he
 MARTUS-Michael S. Beloved husband of Mirella; dearest father of Stephen & David; devoted brother of Marjorie Martus; adoring grandfather of Isabella; affectionate father-in-law of Sara. Services will be held Thursday, September 16 at 10:00 A.M. at the Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, N.
 POWER-John F. Of Gulfstream, FL on September 13, 1999 at the age of 93. Husband of Margaret M. Power. Father of Mary, Jack, Pat, Peg, Catherine, James and Betsy. Grandfather of 28 and great grandfather of 25. Born June 3, 1906 in New York City. Graduate of Holy Cross College 1928. Retired s
 SEYMOUR-Willard. Beloved son of Tessie B. Herskovitz and the late Leonard H. Herskovitz. Adored brother of Seymour Herskovitz, his wife Marilyn, and the late Eve Fried. Doting uncle of Amy Herskovitz, Karen and Bill Ackman, Leonard Fried and John Mann. He was well loved and will be sorely m
 SHIPLEY-Frederick, 84. On September 12th, 1999. Mr. Shipley was born in South Shields, England and was a lieutenant in the British Royal Navy. An engineer, he was involved in the construction of electrical and power plants in South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Husband of Stephanie Sh
 SILHA-Otto. City Innovation mourns the death of its Founder and Chairman, on September 11, in Minneapolis, MN. He had the vision, enthusiasm and determination of a true leader. He cared about the futures of people in our cities: their education, work, daily lives and opportunities for growt
 SPIELMAN-Elias. Age 87 of Boca Raton, FL and Concordia Village at Cranbury, NJ, formerly of Roslyn, NY died September 10, 1999 at Princeton Hospital after a brief illness. He was a businessman active in civic affairs, serving as a Trustee of Roslyn Village from 1959-1965 and as Mayor of Ros
 STONE-Samuel (Doc). Beloved son of the late Rose and Morton Stone, brother, brother-in-law, uncle and cherished friend, died peacefully on the evening of tenth September at the age of 83. Sam was a noble soul who brought joy into many lives. He leaves behind his sister, Shirley Stone Rod an
 WHELAN-William Edward. On September 9, 1999. Deeply loved and cherished husband and best friend of Agatha Munhall Whelan went to the God he loved so much. Also survived by his sister, Mary Whelan Phelan and his brothers, Charles and Robert and 15 nieces and nephews and 33 grandnieces and ne
 WISNIEWSKI-Henry, Dr. The Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc. mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague and friend, Dr. Henry Wisniewski. He was the Director of the Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities (a New York State Office of Mental Retardation Instit
 Tony Duquette, the designer whose lavish, whimsically baroque sets and costumes, interiors and jewelry made him a Hollywood favorite for more than five decades, died on Sept. 9. He was 85. The cause of his death, at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center, was com
 Benjamin S. Bloom, whose path-breaking 1964 research showing the profound impact of early childhood experience on adult ability helped lead to the creation of the Head Start program, died on Monday. He was 86. Dr. Bloom died at his home in Chicago, said William Harms, a spokesman fo
 Cleveland (Big Cat) Williams, who fought Muhammad Ali for the world heavyweight boxing championship in November 1966, two years after a shooting by a policeman left Williams with one kidney and a bullet lodged near his hip, died last Friday in Houston. He was 66. Williams, who lived
 BRAFMAN-Sol. For more than fifty years served as a well-respected leader of various well known Jewish Organizations, died this past Friday of complications following surgery. Born in Vienna, Austria, Mr. Brafman, as a young man is credited with saving Torahs (sacred scrolls) from burning sy
 COHEN-Rabbi Samuel. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, and, since 1926, partners with the Jewish National Fund in the reclamation of the land of Israel, mourns the passing of JNF's former Executive Vice President and longtime Zionist leader. May his family be comforted a
 FINKELSTEIN-Mark. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of Gertrude Finkelstein, a longtime friend and esteemed member of the National Board of our Women's Division. Mr. and Mrs. Finkelstein were among the Colle
 FRECH-Hans A. On September 13, after a long illness. Born Rotterdam, Netherlands April 23, 1923. Son of the late Erhard Gustav Frech and Martha Popen. Graduated from College Montana in Switzerland. Spent W.W. II in a labor camp in Germany since he refused to sign the Nazi loyalty pledge. Le
 HECHT-Jack. On September 14, 1999, age 89. Beloved husband of Laura (nee Florman), devoted father of Arlene and Leonard. Dear grandfather of two, and great grandfather of four. Funeral services on Thursday 2 P.M., ''Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer'' Memorial Chapel, Queens Boulevard and 76th Road,
 JENKINS-Robert Lynn. Beloved husband of Paulette Kulibaba Jenkins. Passed away peacefully at home September 12, 1999. Robert was also survived by his sister, his five loving children and eight beautiful grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations in his name can be made to the V.N.S.-Hospi
 JOHNSON-Fred. The officers, staff and members of Local 2110, UAW, mourn the untimely passing of our beloved organizer and friend, Fred Johnson. His warmth, empathy and concern for our membership will never be forgotten. Fred never gave up on the struggle for justice for workers. We will all
 KLOHR-Rev. Paul McC. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Finbar's Church, 138 Bay 20th St., Brooklyn, September 13. Reposing in Queen of Peace Residence, 11030 221st St., Queens Village, Wednesday, Sept. 15, from 1 to 3 P.M. Mass of Transferral at 4 P.M
 KROMER-Leon B. Jr., 87, passed away Sunday, September 12, 1999 at Sardis Nursing Home. Born July 17, 1912 at Fort Reno, OK, he was the son of Major General Leon B. Kromer, former U.S. Chief of Cavalry and Jane Stotsenburg Wainright. Mr. Kromer attended Georgetown University, graduated from 
 MRAZ-Charles. Age 94. Died September 13 in Middlebury, VT. He was an internationally known bee keeper and apitherapist. Funeral services are on September 16th at 10 A.M. at St. Stephens Church in Middlebury, VT.       
 POWER-John F. Of Gulfstream, FL on September 13, 1999 at the age of 93. Husband of Margaret M. Power. Father of Mary, Jack, Pat, Peg, Catherine, James and Betsy. Grandfather of 28 and great grandfather of 25. Born June 3, 1906 in New York City. Graduate of Holy Cross College 1928. Retired s
 ROHOZYNSKYJ-Klemens, MD. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the sudden loss of our esteemed colleague, and good friend, who served our institution for more than 30 years. Dr. Rohozynskyj was a dedicated physician who always showe
 SHAPIRO-Al. New Line Cinema mourns the passing of Al Shapiro, our beloved friend and colleague. We will miss his wit, wisdom, leadership, and laughter. While we have thirteen years of memories to cherish, we will forever remember a man with an infectious love of life who was equally dedicat
 SPERLING-Alexander. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Alexander Sperling, beloved husband of Mura and father of Carol Sperling and Nora Coblence. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jac
 TRUSSELL-Ray E. Greater New York Hospital Association mourns the passing of Ray E. Trussell, M.D. In addition to serving as former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City and former General Director of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan, Dr. Trussell was also a dedicated Board Membe
 SHEAR-Peter J. The officers and staff of Pergolis Swartz Associates, Inc. mourn the passing of Peter J. Shear, a cherished friend and associate over the years. We will miss him. Richard R. Pergolis, President Gerald I. Swartz, Executive Vice President       
 Vincent T. Wasilewski, who was president of the National Association of Broadcasters for 17 years, died on Sept. 9 at Washington Hospital Center. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, according to the association. Mr. Wasilewski's degree was in law, but his first love was 
 Alfredo Bojalil Gil, whose mellifluous guitar added honey to the sweet sound of the Latin trio Los Panchos, died on Friday at his Mexico City home. He was 84. Mr. Gil, who was known by his nickname, El Guero, which means fair-haired in Mexican Spanish, was the last surviving member 
 Charles Crichton, one of the brightest lights in the golden age of British film comedy in the late 1940's and 50's, and whose directing career faded and then blazed anew with his last film, ''A Fish Called Wanda,'' died on Tuesday in London. He was 89. It was after the war that Mr. 
 Frederick P. Rose, a highly successful builder who poured his energy into two dozen major apartment projects and an equal number of institutions that adorn the New York skyline, from Lincoln Center to Rockefeller University and the Children's Aid Society, died Tuesday night. He was 75.     
 BONOMO - Tico. Philanthropist, Turkish Taffy maker, television producer, and Time-Out Family Amusement Center founder and CEO, passed away Sept. 14 at his home in Great Falls, Virginia, surrounded by his loving family. Tico lived a vibrant and exceptional 74 years during which he actively s
 FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Cherished father of Judy Epstein and Lois Goldstein. Dear father-in-law of David Epstein and Bob Goldstein. Loving grandfather of Stephanie, Tom, Dan, Daryl and Randi. Graveside services Thursday 1:30PM at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, N
 GOLDSCHMITT-Otto. On September 14, 1999 at his home in Manhattan in his 90th year. He was the loving husband of Susan for 54 years and the father of Paulette (Reda) and Marv. Born on December 9, 1909 in Ebersheim, Germany, he survived the tortures of Auschwitz with a zeal for life that brou
 HECHT-Jack L. September 14, age 89. We note with great sorrow the loss of our Chairman of the Board. He was our mentor, friend and partner for over 50 years. One of the three founders of Queens Lithographing Corporation. Beloved by our employees, customers and all who knew him. He taught us
 JOHNSON-Fred. The officers, staff and members of Local 2110, UAW, mourn the untimely passing of our beloved organizer and friend, Fred Johnson. His warmth, empathy and concern for our membership will never be forgotten. Fred never gave up on the struggle for justice for workers. We will all
 KALTMAN-Leo. A man of wisdom and wit. He held a special place in our program and in our hearts. We will miss him. WABC Call for Action Muriel Lutwin, Director       
 KATZEN-Minnie Rich. September 11th, 1999 in Warrenton, Virginia. Beloved wife of the late Perry Katzen, M.D. Adored mother of Jay Kenneth. Dear mother-in-law of Patricia. Cherished grandmother of Timothy and his wife Debbie; David and his wife Holly; and James. Loving great-grandmother of M
 MOORE-John McDonald. January 11,1919-Septenber 14, 1999. Cherished husband of Elaine Roberta Werblud Moore. Loving father of Johan North, adored and adoring parent to Marc Werblud, Monica Werblud Valenti, Debra Werblud Camerota and to their spouses: Tabitha Werblud, Angelo Valenti and Filip
 OWENS-Grady Dennis. Of Kings Lodge, Otisville, NY. Died Sept. 12, 1999. Survived by his loving wife Judith and five children. Services will be Thursday, September 16. Memorial service Sunday, September 19 at Applebee-McPhillips Funeral Home, 914-343-6309.       
 ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather o
 ROTHBAUM-Ira, 75. Passed away Sunday, September 12, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Westfield, N.J. Mr. Rothbaum worked as an Advertising Executive in New York City at N.W. Ayer and SSC&B-Lintas. After retiring to Florida in 1980 he started a new career in Financial Planning. He is surv
 SCHONBERGER-Henry V. May 2, 1924-September 12, 1999. Longtime employee of New York Life Insurance Company. Honored member of the New York chapter of Jewish War Veterans. Resident of Pompano Beach FL. Henry was born in NYC to Joseph and Olga and attended DeWitt Clinton High School. Everyone 
 SWANANDER-Gary A. The Board of Governors, the membership and staff of the Atlantic Golf Club are saddened by the passing of our fellow member and past Board Member, Gary Swanander. Gary, a charter member of the Club, served on the Board enthusiastically for five years. He spent many days at
 WINTERS-Elwood Jack, Ph.D. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Leona, his children, Jeffrey, Andrea and Patricia, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Georg
 Bill Quackenbush, who proved that defensemen could play hockey without being excessively rough or committing penalties, died last Sunday in the Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pa. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son Bruce.   
 John F. White Sr., a political strategist and organizer whose leadership played a vital role in the election of black officials in Philadelphia, died on Wednesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 75. In 1968, Mr. White helped found the Black Political Forum, his principal politic
 James R. West, a career diplomat and the husband of the writer Mary McCarthy for nearly 30 years, died on Monday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me. Dashing and worldly with a superlative wit, Mr. West immediately captured Ms. McCarthy's at
 BORIS-Julius. The Officers and Directors of Elderplan, Inc., sadly mourn the untimely passing of Julius Boris, beloved husband of Pearl and esteemed Board member of Elderplan. His involvement with Elderplan dates back to our inception. A devoted volunteer, leader and ardent supporter, Juliu
 FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. Women's League for Israel mourns the passing of a longtime friend and benefactor. We extend deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Gertrude, and his family. Harriet Lainer, President       
 GOLDMAN-Jeffrey. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Jeffrey Golddman. We extend heartfelt condolences to his parents Marilyn and Mark Goldman & sisters Jill and Debra. Funeral service Friday, Sept. 17th, Temple Beth Sholom at 1:30PM. Rabbi Ala
 GREENFIELD-Saul I. Died on September 16th, 1999. Beloved husband of Vivian. Devoted father of Ronald and Shelly and father-inlaw of Allan Brandt. Cherished grandfather of Danny and Jacob Brandt. Loving brother of Miriam, Lillian, Evelyn, Myron, Vivian, Judy, Larry and Ruth. Services Friday,
 GROSSMAN-Edgar. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Edgar Grossman of Newton Centre, Mass. We extend heartfelt condolences to his daughter Mary Ellen Grossman, his son-in-law and past national president of the ATS Edwar
 MOORE-John McDonald. January 11,1919-Septenber 14, 1999. Cherished husband of Elaine Roberta Werblud Moore. Loving father of Johan North, dear brother of Lyn Moore, adored and adoring parent to Marc Werblud, Monica Werblud Valenti, Debra Werblud Camerota and to their spouses: Tabitha Werblu
 PYNE-John Wright. Of Peapack on Wednesday, September 15, 1999 at his home. Husband of Nancy Buck Pyne, father of Moses Taylor Pyne & Holly Pyne Connor, brother of Eben Wright Pyne, Alison Pyne Ewing & the late Percy Rivington Pyne III and Grafton Howland Pyne, grandfather of three grandchil
 ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather o
 W. Arthur Garrity Jr., the Federal judge whose school desegregation order led to the racial turmoil that tarred Boston as a place of busing infamy in the 1970's, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 79. Judge Garrity died just as the last vestiges of the
 CHERRY-James R. Of Chappaqua, New York, on September 16, 1999, at the age of 92. He is survived by his sister, Rosalind, his children, Kaye, Jim and Sylvie, his beloved granddaughter Justine and his long time companion, Dorothy Arnof. A memorial service will take place in New York City at a
 GREENSTEIN-Hon. Morris. The Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, State of New York, mourns the passing of Past Grand Chancellor Morris Greenstein on September 11, 1999. We extend our condolences to his son Richard in his hour of bereavement. Joel Bergenfeld, Grand Chancellor       
 MANDELL-Robert P., died September 15th, 1999. Beloved son of Arnold and the late Pearl, loving husband of Robin, devoted and adored father of Rebecca & Peter, dear brother of Jane Moross, uncle of 15 nieces and nephews. He will be missed and remembered by family and friends forever. Service
 MOORE-John McDonald. January 11,1919-Septenber 14, 1999. Cherished husband of Elaine Roberta Werblud Moore. Loving father of Johan North, dear brother of Lyn Moore, adored and adoring parent to Marc Werblud, Monica Werblud Valenti, Debra Werblud Camerota and to their spouses: Tabitha Werblu
 ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather o
 SCHNEIDER-Edward, M.D. Of Boynton Beach, FL on September 17th. Devoted husband of Hortense, father of Linda and Michael Newman, Donna and Harvey Sorkin, Steven and Christine Schneider, grandfather of Gail Newman, Julie and David Phillips, Debra Newman, Ross and Dawn Schindler, David Newman,
 Allen Stack, a shy, gentle giant from Yale who won a gold medal in swimming in the 1948 Olympics and revolutionized the backstroke, died last Sunday in his home in Honolulu. He was 71. He had suffered from bone cancer for more than a year, said his wife, Elizabeth. The illness preve
 Charles Mraz, an inventive beekeeper who since the 1930's had been the country's leading evangelist for the therapeutic use of bee stings, a still unproven treatment, died on Monday at his home in Middlebury, Vt. He was 94. Mr. Mraz was widely known among beekeepers for developing a
 BOWERSOCK-Jeffrey and Christine. The Zurich Centre Group and Centre Solutions mourn the tragic passing of our friend and esteemed colleague Jeffrey Bowersock and his wife Christine Welch Bowersock, in a plane crash in Tanzania on September 1. Our thoughts and prayers are with the members of
 CHERRY-James R. Of Chappaqua, New York, on September 16, 1999, at the age of 92. He is survived by his sister, Rosalind, his children, Kaye, Jim and Sylvie, his beloved granddaughter Justine and his long time companion, Dorothy Arnof. A memorial service will take place in New York City at a
 GILLESPIE-Robert D. The son of the late Vincent and Helen Gillespie. He is survived by his sister Geraldine Misner and her husband Richard and nieces and nephews Jennifer, Rick, Vincent, Justin and Grace and by spouse Albert Rockenstein. There will be a memorial Mass at the Church of St. Lu
 HAGAN-Robert Thomas, 82, Venice, Florida. Died September 3, 1999. He was born on June 14, 1917 in New York City, N.Y. and came to Venice in 1994 from Sea Cliff, N.Y. He was a Master Sergeant in the U.S. Marine Corp who served in the South Pacific in W.W. II. Retired from S. B. Thomas and la
 HECHT-Jack L. September 14, age 89. We note with great sorrow the loss of our Chairman of the Board. He was our mentor, friend and partner for over 50 years. One of the three founders of Queens Lithographing Corporation. Beloved by our employees, customers and all who knew him. He taught us
 LEWIS-Jesse, age 88, on September 11. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Leon, Sarah, and Martin. Beloved brother-in-law of George and Abigail and family, and father-in-law of Dixie, Joel and Beverley. Devoted grandfather of Callie, Matthew and Naomi, Zoey and husband Reuben, Je
 MOORE-John McDonald. January 11,1919-Septenber 14, 1999. Cherished husband of Elaine Roberta Werblud Moore. Loving father of Johan North, dear brother of Lyn Moore, adored and adoring parent to Marc Werblud, Monica Werblud Valenti, Debra Werblud Camerota and to their spouses: Tabitha Werblu
 NAUMBERG-Rivka. The Mem bers of the Board, the Administration and the children and families of OHEL, Bais Ezra and the Lifetime Care Foundation for the Jewish Disabled mourn the passing of the beloved sister of Joseph Friedman a dear friend of OHEL, who along with his wife Rachelle play a v
 ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather o
 STILLMAN-Murray W. Died at Boca Raton, FL on September 16, 1999. ''Pasie'' as he was affectionately known to his grandsons and family, lived to 91 years. He was a quarterback at Temple U., a DDGM in the NY State Masons, a stockbroker and an avid golfer until age 88. He was a true gentleman 
 SUESS-Alexander A., Honorable. Born November 11, 1906 died September 13, 1999. Predeceased by his adored wife of 60 years Edna in 1987. Survived by his loving daughter Marion and her husband Harold Krauthamer. Retired Workmans Compensation Judge for the State of NY, retired Major in the NY 
 TRINKAUS - Charles Edward. Professor Emeritus of History, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Died in NYC on September 15, 1999. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, on October 25, 1911, and received his BA from Wesleyan University and his Ph.D. from Columbia University. He was a member of the Sarah
 WINTERS-Elwood J. Of Harrison, NY. Passed away on September 15, 1999. He was 89. Beloved husband of 59 years to Leona. Loving father of Jeffrey, Andrea and Patricia. Professor Emeritus of New York University (Chemistry). Lt. Commander WWII, in charge of U.S. Flight School. Originated video 
 MORTIMER-Stanley G. Jr., died on August 11 at his home in Harriman, NY, after a long illness. A memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church Fifth Avenue at 53rd St. in NYC on Thursday, September 23 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, a contribution to the Stanley G. Mortimer Jr. Fund, The I
 David Karp, a prolific writer of novels, screenplays and television dramas who rose to prominence in the Golden Age of television drama, died on Sept. 11 at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 77. Mr. Karp, who had homes in Manhattan and Pittsfield, died from em
 Gilbert O. Herman, an actor and producer who as a World War II Air Force officer played a similar role in the wartime play ''Winged Victory'' and who later became a major general in the Air Force Reserve, died on Sept. 6 in a hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 80. ''Winged Victory,''
 Harry Crane, a comedy writer who helped create the long-running and perpetually rerun television show ''The Honeymooners,'' featuring Jackie Gleason, died last Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85. Besides writing for Mr. Gleason, Mr. Crane concocted gags and routin
 Dr. Henry M. Wisniewski, an Alzheimer's disease researcher and the director of the New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, died on Sept. 5 at his home on Staten Island. He was 68. The cause was heart failure, said Donald A. Snider, a friend and col
 Leo Valiani, a highly placed member of the Italian anti-fascist resistance during World War II who became an outspoken postwar senator, died on Saturday at his home in Milan. He was 90. Mr. Valiani was also a journalist and author who for many years wrote editorials for the Milan da
 BOWERSOCK-Jeffrey and Christine. The Zurich Centre Group and Centre Solutions mourn the tragic passing of our friend and esteemed colleague Jeffrey Bowersock and his wife Christine Welch Bowersock, in a plane crash in Tanzania on September 1. Our thoughts and prayers are with the members of
 CHERRY-James R. Of Chappaqua, New York, on September 16, 1999, at the age of 92. He is survived by his sister, Rosalind, his children, Kaye, Jim and Sylvie, his beloved granddaughter Justine and his long time companion, Dorothy Arnof. A memorial service will take place in New York City at a
 ELLSTEIN-Arthur. Family and friends mourn the loss, on September 18, of Arthur Ellstein. He was the loving husband of Phyllis Ellstein, devoted father of Dorene Sedrish, and her husband, Dr. Michael Sedrish, and of Dr. Jerry Ellstein, and his wife, Gail Ellstein, and caring grandfather of B
 MARSHALL-Leon. Beloved husband of his late wife Beatrice. Treasured father, devoted grandfather, brother and friend. Service Tuesday, September 20, 11:30 AM, at Hellman Memorial Chapel, Spring Valley, NY.       
 ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers and Executive Committee Members of the Yale Class of 1944 on behalf of themselves and their fellow classmates mourn most deeply the passing of their distiguished friend, Fred Rose. To wife Sandra, children Jonathan, Adam and Deborah, brothers Daniel and Elihu 
 TRINKAUS-Charles. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of Charles Trinkaus, brilliant scholar, teacher, and member of the College faculty, 1936-1970. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, our dear faculty colleague, Pauline Moffitt Watts. Michele Tolela Myers, Pr
 VEIT-William H. Age 90. Of Boca Raton, FL. Died September 17, 1999. He moved to Boca Raton in 1965, after retiring from the New York Police Department as Lieutenant in Internal Affairs. For information, call the Robert J. Babione Funeral Home, 561-395-8787.       
 John W. Vanderhoff, a chemist who was the chief scientist of a National Aeronautics and Space Administration project that produced what was said to be the first commercial product made in space, died on Thursday at his home in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 74. He retired in 1997 from the fa
 ALLEN-Charles C., 79. Of Route 179, Thornton, New Hampshire, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Family members include his wife of 39 years, Suzanne Brubaker Allen, of Thornton, two sons, Christopher C., of Larchmont, New York, and Timothy S. Allen, of Accord, NY, a daughter, Jennifer Amy Allen, of
 BISS-Egon J., 86, Doctor of Law from the University of Vienna, 1937. Son of the late Anna Deutsch Biss and Adolph Biss who perished in Auschwitz. Adored and adoring husband for fifty-seven years of Elaine. Beloved father of Vivien Biss Goldbaum Feder, Esq. (Norman) and Micky Biss; cherished
 CHERRY-James R. The NYU Community mourns the passing of its long-time member, James Cherry. He served this institution with distinction for more than thirty years as a member of the Medical Center Board of Trustees, the University's Board of Trustees, the NYU Institute of Fine Arts' Board o
 DUNN-Francis ''Frank'' Joseph, of Topsail Beach, NC died Saturday, September 18, 1999 at his residence. Mr. Dunn was born on April 26, 1939 in Brooklyn, NY, the son of the late Deputy Inspector Frank Dunn, NYPD, and Bernadette Kearns Dunn. He was an Institutional Stock Broker in New York Ci
 KIRKLAND-Charles McMichael. Age 86. Loving husband of the late Nancy Brinton Lucas. Died peacefully Thursday, September 9, 1999. Mr. Kirkland graduated from Saint Paul's School and Harvard University in 1934. During his business career, he served as President of the Heath Company and Weston
 LABRECQUE-Theodore Joseph Sr., retired New Jersey Superior Court Judge, of Little Silver, NJ, on September 18, 1999. Husband of Marjorie (nee Uprichard). Father of Theodore J. Jr., Thomas G., Robert S. & David F. Labrecque, Jeanne L. Gagliano, Susan L. Wooley, Barbara L. Danowitz & Katherin
 MARSHALL-Leon. Beloved husband of his late wife Beatrice. Treasured father, devoted grandfather, brother and friend. Service Tuesday, September 21, 11:30 AM, at Hellman Memorial Chapel, Spring Valley, New York.       
 MORAN-Joseph M. On September 15, 1999. A former Senior Director of Public Relations at American Airlines and Contributing Editor for Travel Agent Magazine. A devoted husband, father, grandfather and brother. He will be missed by all who came to know his wit, his charm and his unflinching co
 SHUSTER-Herbert V. On Monday, September 20, of Newton, MA. Beloved husband for 47 years to Rosanne (Feldman). Loving father of Amy Jo & Howard Muscott of Amherst, NH, Mark W. & Beth Shuster of Newton, MA and James L. Shuster of Providence, RI. Cherished grandfather of Nathan Gabriel Muscott
 STORM-Harold L. Beloved husband of Sybil. Private services were held. May he rest in peace.       
 ZWEBEN-Sidney, 90, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Lakewood, NJ, died Monday, September 20. Born August 22, 1909 in New York City, his family moved to Lakewood, NJ in 1921. He worked at his father's hotel and graduated from Lakewood High School as President of his class. With his loving w
 LOIS-Harry Joseph. 9/5/58-9/21/78. Our love for him deepens; our sadness remains unbearable. Rosemary, Luke and George Lois       
 LOVE-Edward Arnold. (Sept. 21, 1936-March 22, 1999). Beloved son, husband, father, brother, uncle, nephew, teacher, artist, and friend. We who love you and treasure the visual evidence and lessons you offered give thanks for your magnificent light. Cherished memories of you dance within us.
 RUOTOLO-Andrew K. Jr. November 5, 1952-September 21, 1995 And, departed, he has left behind him ''footprints on the sands of time.''       
 Samuel James Ervin 3d, who was the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from 1989 to 1996, died on Saturday in a hospital in Morganton, N.C. He was 73 and lived in Morganton. Judge Ervin continued to serve on the court after his retirement as chie
 Austin K. Haldenstein, a real estate broker whose enthusiasm for brownstones helped start New York City's town house revival, died on Monday at a nursing home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 74. Mr. Haldenstein also helped develop the ethics segment of the curriculum at N
 Frank Wagner, a director and choreographer who worked in theater, dance and television, died on Sept. 12 in the Health Park Care Center in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 77 and lived on Sanibel Island, Fla. The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, his family said. Mr. Wagne
 ALLEN-Louis E., 81, of New York City and Floral Park, New York, passed away on September 21, 1999. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle and brother. He is survived by his loving wife, Harriet; daughter, Amy; son, Andrew; granddaughter, Emily; grandson, Paul; daughter-in-law, Beverly;
 ANCHIN-Edward. On September 21, 1999, after a long illness. Died peacefully in his sleep. Retired pharmacist. Beloved husband of 57 years to Ida Anita Anchin. Loving father and father-in-law of Stephen & Jane, Marvin and Tina, and Jack and Christine. Devoted Poppa of Matthew, Monica, Scott,
 BISS-Egon J., 86, Doctor of Law from the University of Vienna, 1937. Son of the late Anna Deutsch Biss and Adolph Biss who perished in Auschwitz. Adored and adoring husband for fifty-seven years of Elaine. Beloved father of Vivien Biss Goldbaum Feder, Esq. (Norman) and Micky Biss; cherished
 CHERRY-James R. The Board of Directors and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of their friend Jim Cherry. As a Trustee of the Billy Rose Foundation, Jim Cherry helped foster the growth of the Israel Museum fo
 CRISCITELLO-Michael, died of heart failure on Monday, September 13, 1999. He was 84 years old. Michael lived on the Lower East Side his entire life. He served in the Marines during World War II and fought in the Battle of Guadalcanal. He received an honorable discharge from the Marines as S
 DeSANTIS-Michael. The office of Michael DeSantis Inc. will deeply miss the talented, gifted and honored Michael DeSantis. The kindness, generosity and contributions Michael made to the world of design will not be forgotten. Michael is survived by his sister, Patti D'Angelo of White Plains, 
 ELKUS-Gene. The volunteers and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society wish to express deep sorrow on the passing of Gene Elkus, 79, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Elkus was a member of his local chapter and the National MS Society Boards of Directors. Visitation will be 11AM followed by
 GARFUNKEL-J. Harold, 93, on Sept 21, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Florence Rubin Garfunkel, cherished father of Marjorie Baker Bachrach and Robert Lee Bachrach and Deborah G. Bloch and Robert W. Bloch; adored grandfather of Jeffrey M. Bachrach, Alexandra Bloch Jeydel and the late Cliff
 HANIGAN-Harry A. Jr. Died on Wednesday at home. Graduate of Loyola School, Class of 1934. Attended Fordham College. Retired accountant, Schenly Industries. Survived by his sister Kathleen H. Ward, six nieces and one nephew. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Loyola School, 980 
 KELLMAN-Martin. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Martin Kellman, beloved brother of Ira Kellman, a dear friend of the Jewish community. A former member of our Board of Directors, Ira is a dedicated leader who serves o
 KOO - Ham - King.On Saturday, September 20, 1999 at age 96. Master Koo is survived by three children, William, Regina and Hoi, and three grandchildren, Edward, Vincent and Amy. He taught Nanlaoshu-''the art of hard to grow old'' to thousands of students. His guidance and inspiration led to 
 PECK-Stephen B., 70, was born in Zurich, Switzerland, June 21, 1929 to Sam and Lydia Peck. A resident of Destin, Florida since 1994, he passed away surrounded by his family on Sunday, September 19, 1999, at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. Stephen is survived by his wife of fo
 SCHARF-Abraham. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the passing of our friend and client of many years. We extend our condolences to his beloved family. We shall miss Abe very much. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield       
 STULTING-Robert J., Rev., CSP. On September 21, 1999 at age 78 was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Ordained a Paulist priest on May 1, 1961. During his thirty-eight years of priesthood he served Paulist communities in Chicago, Boston, Grand Rapids, Richardson, TX, New York; 8 years in Knoxvill
 Philip N. Brownstein, a top Federal housing administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations who fought discrimination by builders and landlords and who expanded Depression-era housing laws to widen home ownership among minority groups, died on Friday in a hospital in Silver Spring,
 Thomas E. Atkins, who as an Army private in World War II received the Medal of Honor for repelling a Japanese attack on his infantry platoon in the Philippines while he was severely wounded, died on Sept. 15 at his home in Inman, S.C. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failur
 Bishop Basil Rodzianko, a retired Bishop of the Orthodox Church in America who was known for the broadcasts on religious topics that he made from Britain and the United States to what is now Russia for more than three decades, died last Friday at his home in Washington. He was 84. T
 Conrad F. Taeuber, who directed the Federal census in 1960 and 1970, died on Sept. 11 in a nursing home in Nashua, N.H., where he had been living for several years. He was 93. Mr. Taeuber, a demographer by training, worked at the Federal Bureau of the Census from 1951 until 1973, be
 George C. Scott, an actor of extraordinary range and daring, celebrated for his performances as Gen. George S. Patton Jr. in the movie ''Patton'' and as Shakespeare's Richard III (in Central Park) and for his roles in countless other films and plays, died on Wednesday in his office in Westl
 BROWNSTEIN-Philip. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend and Block Island comrade. For 45 years, he enriched our lives with his charming warmth, his humor, and his quietly blazing intellect. Goodness, integrity and a rare unshakable decency were his hallmarks. His life of dedication to
 BUTTON-William H. On the morning of September 24, 1998, William H. Button passed away at his home in Sarasota, FL after a five month battle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Katharine B. Button, stepmother, Mrs. William H. Button 2nd, sister, Judy B. Keyes, three children, and five g
 DANZIG-Martin E. Of Tamarac, FL and Merrick, LI. On September 23. Born in Jerusalem. Son of Rabbi David and Chaya Sarah Danzig. Graduate of Yeshiva University Teacher's Department and NYU. Professor of Sociology at CUNY and author of numerous articles. Organized Migdal David Synagogue. Exec
 DOWNING - Lawrence J. Oceanside, NY, Sept. 23, 1999 after a short illness. Retired New York City Police Department. Decorated Police Officer with 27 years of service assigned to the 79 Precinct and 69th Precinct in Brooklyn & the 101st Precinct in Far Rockaway. Mr. Downing was a devoted fam
 FARKAS-Kerwin. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, New York, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Kerwin Farkas. He will be sorely missed.       
 GARFUNKEL-J. Harold. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of J. Harold Garfunkel, a cherished friend who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. As a dedicated leader, he embraced the compassionate commitment of his father, who was 
 LORBERBLATT-Michael Albert. 58, of NYC on September 2, 1999. Born in Brooklyn. Son of the late Isaac and Myra (Herman) Lorberblatt. Survived by his wife, Jean Nizalowski-Lorberblatt and son, Joshua D. Lorberblatt; his sister, state representative Phyllis Kahn and brother-in-law Donald Kahn 
 RAFFEL-George. September 23, 1999, of Long Beach, NY. Beloved husband of the late Renee and brother of Anne, father of Jeff and father-in law of Joanne, grandfather of Allison, David, Lori, Tom and Ken, great-grandfather of Nicole. Loved by his extended family and friends. Graveside service
 Dr. William Eckert, a forensic pathologist who worked on major and often bizarre murder cases including the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the re-examination of Jack the Ripper's killings, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 73 and lived in Terrytown, a subur
 Charles Trinkaus, a leading scholar of the Renaissance and a longtime history professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., died on  Sept. 15 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Bronxville. Mr. Trinkaus was one of the scholars who in the 1940's and 50's  ''
 Herbert V. Shuster, a food scientist who founded one of the nation's oldest consumer product testing companies, died Monday at a nursing home in the Brighton section of Boston, where he had been for several days. He was 75 years old and lived in Waban, Mass. The cause was complicati
 Ivan Goff, co-creator of the television series ''Charlie's Angels'' and co-writer of the films ''White Heat,'' ''Captain Horatio Hornblower'' and ''Man of a Thousand Faces,'' died on  Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 89 and lived in Malibu. With his writing part
 Karl H. Menges, an authority on the strategically important languages of Central Asian peoples in the former Soviet Union, died on Monday in Vienna. He was 91. Dr. Menges, who picked up new languages almost as casually as most people buy groceries, had been active conducting researc
 KINGSFORD-Irving B. age 80 On Sept. 22, Princeton, N.J. Survived by his wife Martha Kingsford, children Daniel, Michael, Kathleen Davis, stepdaughters Anne, Betsey & Eleanor & three grandchildren. Memorial Service Trinity Church, 33 Mercer St., Princeton, at 10 AM Saturday, September 25.   
 KRAMAN-Sidney. Beloved husband of Adely. Devoted father of Kathy Hayes and Richard and father-in-law of Jayne. Loving grandfather of Kyla, William, Maxwell and Luke. Dear brother of Hyman, sisters, Anne and Shirley. Service Sunday, 10 AM, Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenue, NYC. 
 ROSSNER-Robert. On September 13. Age 67. Teacher and writer. Loving father of Jean Katherine, Daniel, Talya and Zoe. Brother of Janet Shepard and grandfather of Jacob & Matthew. His wit, humor, intelligence and spirit will live on for the many who loved him.       
 SHAPIRO-Joe, 52. Born in New York, December 5, 1946 to Abraham and Harriet Shapiro. Died September 23, 1999, Los Angeles, CA. Loving and beloved husband of Pam Shriver, tennis champion and professional tennis commentator. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Pennsylvania an
 SHEY-Irving, Dr. The Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine records with profound sadness the loss of our beloved Associate Clinical Professor Emeritus, Irving A. Shey, M.D. He was a true role model for our discipline. Our heartfe
 Dr. Robert G. Heath, a physician and medical researcher at Tulane University who was best known for his ground-breaking work on schizophrenia, died on Tuesday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 84. In 1957, Dr. Heath found a protein antibody called taraxein in the blood of s
 Earnest Hoberecht, an American who became a major literary figure in Japan just after World War II on the strength of some romance novels he wrote in a matter of weeks, died Wednesday at an Oklahoma City hospital. He was 81. He died of heart failure, his wife said. Mr. Hober
 Nicholas Shoumatoff, a nature enthusiast and mountain climber who won praise for a book on Central Asia, died on Sept. 13 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Bedford, N.Y. The cause was complications from a stomach tumor, his family sa
 BROWN-Robert. The partners of Herrick, Feinstein LLP extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to our partner Richard Brown and his family on the death of Richard's father. Richard, we hope our heartfelt thoughts lend comfort to you and your family at this time of great loss.       
 CARLITZ - Leonard. Former James B. Duke Professor of Mathematics at Duke University (1932-1977), passed away Friday morning, September 17, in Pittsburgh, PA. Born in Philadelphia in 1907, Carlitz was one of the most prolific and insightful mathematics researchers of all time. His 770 public
 FARKAS-Kerwin. After a long and courageous battle at the age of 57. Beloved husband of Karen, loving father of Allison & Jordan, beloved son of the late Abraham Farkas and Margaret Farkas Schwager, dear brother of Jack Schwager, cherished son-in-law of Elaine and Al Fisher, adored brother-i
 FENTON-Elaine Surut Herman, on September 24, 1999 at age 77. Mother of Tom Herman and Kerry Herman. Grandmother of Dyanna Elizabeth Hallick. Sister of Lee E. Surut and sister-in-law of Trudy Surut. Mother-in-law of Marilyn Lytle Herman and Ned Hallick. Wife of Robert E. Herman, who died in 
 FINKEL-Don. Age 56, of Olympia, Washington, died on September 16, 1999, of non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Born to Helen and Leonard Finkel in 1943 in New Rochelle, NY. A summa cum laude graduate in philosophy from Yale, and received a doctorate in Social Relations from Harvard in 1970. He became a 
 FITZPATRICK-Paul Winston. 73, international banker and mentor. An African specialist with J.P. Morgan, he inspired a generation of younger colleagues, here and abroad, with his professional independence and wit. Mourned by brother, John, daughters Susan and Jessica, grandsons Luc and Nicola
 GREENSTEIN-Steven W., 46, died peacefully and without pain after living with AIDS for seven years. Survived by partner, family and friends, his courage and dignity will remain an inspiration to us all. Contributions in his memory may be made to Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, 57 Bethune St
 KAROL-Zachary. We mourn the untimlely passing of Zachary, beloved son of Ruth and the late Ben Karol. He will indeed be missed by his family and friends. Gloria, Kenny, Susan and Irene       
 NADLER-Seymour. Of Boca Raton, Florida and formerly of Fort Lee, New Jersey and the Bronx passed away peacefully Thursday, September 23, 1999. Mr. Nadler is the beloved husband of Doris Nadler; loving father of Michael (Adrienne) Nadler and Vicki Schindler. He will always be special to ever
 TREVOR-Leigh B. Age 65, on Tuesday, September 21, 1999, in Cleveland, Ohio. The lawyers and staff of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue are deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague and friend, Leigh Trevor, a brilliant corporate lawyer and graduate of Harvard University and Harvard Law School, 
 BELLER - Abraham Benjamin. Passed away on September 10th. He was 67 years old. Abe was a brilliant teacher who taught for many years at the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan and at Somerset County College in New Jersey. He was also an inspiring High School administrator and an educa
 FENTON-Elaine Surut Herman, on September 24, 1999 at age 77. Mother of Tom Herman and Kerry Herman. Grandmother of Dyanna Elizabeth Hallick. Sister of Lee E. Surut and sister-in-law of Trudy Surut. Mother-in-law of Marilyn Lytle Herman and Ned Hallick. Wife of Robert E. Herman, who died in 
 FREED-Lillian. February 4, 1914, to September 25, 1999. Because you would not stop for him, he kindly stopped for you. Mourned by family and friends, with deep pain and sorrow.       
 GOLDMAN-Max S. On September 24, at the age of 92. His warmth, generosity, fun-loving spirit, leadership and guidance will live on with his large family and many friends. Husband of the late Jennie (Rochmis) & the late Judith (Morse). Father of Sander & Henry. Step-father of Rev. Peter Eaton
 HAGGERTY-John Joseph, Rev. A Roman Catholic Priest, died September 25, 1999. He was 64. Fr. Haggerty served at St. Anthony's Church, Nepera Park, Yonkers, St. Frances of Rome and St. Helena in the Bronx. He is survived by his sisters Mary Spafford, Anne Haggerty and the late Claire Peloso, 
 HANDMAN-Robert. Age 81, died at his home on September 24. His life was one of courage and principle. He is survived by Rita Handman, his cherished wife of 51 years, his brother Mike Handman, his four loving children and seven adoring grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 3:30 PM
 KASELL-Irving. 86. Formerly of the Bronx, on September 25. Beloved husband of 62 years of Sarah. Father of Joseph & Walter. Grandfather of David, Lauren, Jacob, Miriam & Leah. Great-grandfather of Alec & Samuel. A worldwide traveler. He will be missed. Services 10 AM, Monday, Parkside Memor
 STANLEY-William F. Age 59. Of North Salem, NY. Passed away on September 24, 1999, after a heroic battle with cancer. Adored and adoring husband of Patricia for 32 years. Beloved father of Ann Stanley and Lauren Lehmann. Cherished brother of Lynn Preschlack and Marnie Heck. Devoted son of th
 BALFOUR-William C. III of Hamilton, Ohio, formerly of Brooklyn, September 25, 1999. Survived by his wife Adeline and six children. For information Webb Noonan Funeral Home, Hamilton, Ohio.       
 BONDARIN-Avrum. The Board, staff and members of the North American Federation of Temple Brotherhoods and the Jewish Chautauqua Society, mourn the untimely death of Av Bondarin, former executive director, in Lantana, FL. Av devoted 35 years of his life to the Reform Movement. He is survived 
 BONIME-Stanley, at the age of 75, of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Eastchester, NY. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Erica, and Jonathan and Heather. Adoring grandfather of Lauren and Joshua. He was a graduate of NYU and NYU Dental School and had his practice in Manhattan for 46 y
 COMBER-Thomas E., a member of the Paulist Fathers who was active in the field of publishing and inaugurated a nation-wide prison ministry in 1994, died on September 25, 1999, in New York City. Raised in Elkins Park, PA, he joined the Navy in 1943 and served until 1946. After attending LaSal
 CONLEY-John, M.D. Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons mourns the passing of John Conley, Professor Emeritus of Clinical Otolaryngology. An esteemed colleague and teacher, he served Columbia Presbyterian for more than 20 years. Dr. Conley was recognized throughout the worl
 GILMARTIN-Roger T., 79, of Vero Beach, FL formerly of Locust Valley, NY, on August 9, 1999. Beloved husband of Mary Doris (nee Hillis). Loving father of Carol, Christine, Margaret, Roger and Tom. He is also survived by a sister Cecilia Bowles and six grandchildren. He will be dearly missed 
 GOLDFARB-Michael. Of Ft Lee, N.J. and Boca Raton Fl. Survived by beloved wife, Frieda, sister Ann Silverman, beloved daughters, Sheila Martin and Felice Toonkel, his adored grandchildren, Stacey, Adam, Erica, Jennifer, and the late Margot, great grandchildren, Maxwell, Matthew, Caleb, and E
 KOLLONITSCH-Janos, 79, of Westfield, NJ, September 15, 1999. Loving father of John of Bernards Township, New Jersey and Katalin of Elizabeth, NJ, cherished Uncle of Pal and Ferenc Kovacshegyi. Memorial Mass on October 16th at 11:15 AM at Holy Trinity Church, Westfield. Private cremation ser
 LANE-William Lloyd. Beloved husband of Carol Lane (Nee Schaeffer) and father of David Lane. Passed away on September 26, 1999. Mr. Lane graduated from the Peekskill Military Academy and New York University. Private services. LANE-William. Always sensitive and willing to lend a hand.
 O'LEARY-Michael J. Jr., MD, of Ossining, NY died suddenly on September 26, 1999. Dr. O'Leary was born on July 20, 1946 in Manhattan and was the son of Michael J. Sr. and Mary Regina O'Leary. He was a graduate of Iona College where he earned a B.A. Degree Cum Laude in 1968 and a B.S. Degree 
 PHILIPP-Albert O. On September 27, 1999 in his 101st year. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Cherished father of Annette Radley and Ursula Tieger. Adored grandfather of Helen, Lisa, Jonathan, Rabbi Philip and Anthony. Devoted great grandfather of eleven. His extraordinary life of words and
 SIRLIN-Reuben (Ruby). The Westchester Jewish Center family deeply mourns the death of our Honorary Trustee and Past President, Ruby Sirlin, and extends our sympathy to his wife, Adeline, his son and Center member, Roger, and his wife, Ellen, his daughter, Fran, and her husband, John Suydam,
 WELT-Howard. A gentle man, beloved by all who knew him. Kind and considerate, he was a perfect friend who will be sorely missed. The Kisseloffs       
 WINTHROP-Robert, of Upper Brookville, LI, on September 25, 1999, age 95. Husband of Floreine. Father of Theodora W. Hooton, Cornelia W. Bonnie and the late E. Amory Winthrop, two stepdaughters, Susan J. Mojonnier and Charlene R. Townsend. Grandfather of Thomas L. Higginson Jr., Elizabeth H.
 Stanley Fleishman, a constitutional lawyer involved in several noted First Amendment cases and an advocate for disabled people's rights who was himself disabled by polio, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The causes were pneu
 Donald G. Sanders, a former Senate lawyer who uncovered the White House tapes that led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation, died on Sunday at a hospital in Columbia, Mo. He was 69. Mr. Sanders, who lived in Columbia, died of cancer, said his wife, Dolores. A former F
 CONLEY-John J., M.D. The Sisters of Charity, Board of Trustees, Physicians, Nurses and entire staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our dear and gifted colleague, benefactor, and friend, Dr. John Conley. For over 50 years, as the Chief of Head 
 DAVIS-David Harris. Age 64, of Jackson Heights, NY, formerly of London, England. On September 28, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Philip, Andrew and Neil. Graduate of London University. Designed national data systems for large government projects helping thousands of families throu
 KATZ-Richard, a reporter for Variety, died September 28, 1999 in NYC. Best friend and loving husband of Julie Wolfe. Beloved son of George and Evelyn Katz. Devoted brother of Douglas Katz. Rich was an avid fan of punk rock music. He will be missed by all. For more information, please call H
 LANE-William Lloyd. Husband of Carol, father of David, brother of Robert D. Lane, brother-in-law of Ro Lane. We present a toast to a great brother and uncle who was always there for his nephews, Robert D. Jr., Richard D. and Stephen (SKIP) Lane. Much loved.       
 LUTEN-C.J. The Board of Directors of Harmonie Ensemble/New York and conductor Steven Richman note with sorrow the passing of a dear friend. His support and inspiration will not be forgotten.       
 POWELL-Charles W. Of Fanwood on Monday, September 27, 1999. Beloved son of Ina Powell. Loving father of Mark W. Powell, MD, David S. Powell and Kathryn Ann Scott. Brother of Billie Jean Sparrow. Grandfather of five. Also surviving is his fiance Elizabeth P. Taylor. Relatives and friends are
 ROSNER-Miguel (Michael). A resident of NYC and formerly of San Francisco died Saturday, September 25 after an extended illness. Born December 4, 1940 in Lisbon, Portugal. He was the son of Isidor and Ana Rosner. He is survived by his sisters Mimi Rosner Cohen of Stamford CT. and Bella Rosne
 SCHWERD - Abraham, Cantor. The Queens Jewish Center of Forest Hills, New York, expresses a profound sense of loss and sorrow at the passing of Cantor Emeritus, Abraham Schwerd of blessed memory. For more than 30 years he inspired the community with his beautiful, melodious and heartfelt ren
 SELUGA-Joseph. P.S. 175 Rego Park, mourns the death of our beloved Principal, Joseph Seluga. He was dearly loved by staff, parents and children and we will miss him.       
 WINTHROP-Robert. The officers, Board of Directors and members of Ducks Unlimited, Inc. mourn the passing of Robert Winthrop who served as National President of our organization in 1955 and 1956, and as National Trustee Emeritus until the present. His dedication and commitment to the plight 
 GREENE-Jeffrey A. June 6, 1925September 29, 1989. Wonderful father and friend. Love, missed and remembered today and everyday. His daughter, Kim       
 Paul Hill, the founder of the 160-voice Paul Hill Chorale and a leader in establishing Washington as one of the nation's principal centers for choral singing, died on Monday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 65. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, 
 Frank Ledlie Moore, a composer, filmmaker and author, died on Sunday at the home of his daughter Gabi Moore in Chester, Conn. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his daughter said. Mr. Moore's compositions included 10 choral drama
 John R. Crews, who as an Army sergeant in World War II won the Medal of Honor by single-handedly capturing a German automatic-weapons position while severely wounded, died on Saturday in Oklahoma City, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue.       
 Julius R. Lunsford Jr., a trademark lawyer who represented clients like the Coca-Cola Company, Little League baseball and the McIlhenny Company, the producer of Tabasco hot sauce, died Monday of emphysema at a hospice in Atlanta. He was 84 years old. Mr. Lunsford, a graduate of Merc
 DAVIS-David Harris. Age 64, of Jackson Heights, NY, formerly of London, England. On September 28, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Philip, Andrew and Neil. Graduate of London University. Designed national data systems for large government projects helping thousands of families throu
 DUNDY-Harold David, M.D. 89, died peacefully on September 28 in his home with his children and grandchildren at his side. A wily bridge player, avid Mets fan, devotee of Brooklyn Botanical Gardens, Harold was a powerful force in our lives. His tenacity, tolerance and wit endure as an inspir
 GLAZER-Dora. On September 28, 1999, in Palm Beach, Fl. Loving wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Alan and his wife Stephanie and the late Victor and his wife Marjorie. Cherished grandmother of Alison Harvey, Carolyn Cohen, Nancy Glazer, and Meredith Glazer; proud great-grandmother o
 GOLDFIELD-Max. Beloved husband of Anne, and honored father of Alfred, Michael and HP. Loving grandfather of six and greatgrandfather of one. Philanthropist, businessman, he loved everyone. We will all miss him.       
 JACOBI-Menachem. The Labor Zionist Alliance mourns the passing of Menachem Jacobi, an honorary officer and longtime leader of our movement. We extend condolences to Edna and the family. Daniel Mann, National President JACOBI-Menahem. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic O
 LANDAU-Max. Passed away on August 31st at his home in the West Village. He was 83. Born in New York City he grew up in The Hebrew Orphan Asylum that at seventeen awarded him a scholarship to the National Academy of Design. He then attended The School of Industrial Design. He worked on the A
 LUTEN-C. J. We note with great sorrow the passing of our dear friend, C.J. Luten, in Sarasota, Florida, and express our sympathy to his wife, Carol, and daughters, Karen and Melanie. John McSorley Joseph Penner Lewis Shapiro       
 MOTZKIN-Don. Westchester Day School is deeply saddened by the loss of its former Chairman, President and long-time Trustee. The entire WDS family extends its sympathy to the Motzkin and Rasekh families. Rabbi E. Gottlieb, Headmaster Caren Hammerman, President David Savitsky, Chairman       
 PINDYCK-Charles, on September 28, 1999 of Larchmont, NY, he was 92. Mr. Pindyck was a Veteran of WWII and later a manufacturer of infant wear. Beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Goldberg) and the devoted father of Larry and Bob and grandfather of Maya, Talia, Shira, Bradley and Zander. Service
 ROWLEY-Michael David. Resident of Darien for the last 18 years, passed away at home on September 27, 1999, age 53. Born in London, England in 1946, he moved to the US in 1981 and became a US citizen on April 15, 1989. Following a long career in Money Brokering, Michael was appointed preside
 UPHAM-John. Longtime organist of Temple Israel of Jamaica. The congregation mourns his loss.       
 LITT-Nathaniel. On September 30, 1997. His life was filled with wonder. Andrew, Jessica, and Margot Litt       
 Robert Winthrop, an investment banker, philanthropist, sportsman, conservationist and man of many causes, died Saturday at his home in Upper Brookville, N.Y. He was 95. The causes championed by Mr. Winthrop ranged from the Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y., to efforts to
