 Damon Wright, a playwright, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness, his family said. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. Born in Long Beach, Calif., and a graduate of Stanford University, he was the author of ''Testimony,''  ''Mr. Baldwin Goes t
 David C. Adams, a former chairman of NBC and a member of its board, died Sunday at Cedar Manor Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Mr. Adams was 85. Known for his dry wit and lack of pretension, Mr. Adams was regarded as one of television's most popu
 FARDELMANN-Dr. Robert L. of Garden City, NY died peacefully at home December 27. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 2, 10:30 AM at the Garden City Community Church, corner Stuart Avenue and Whitehall Blvd. in Garden City, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may b
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 GALLOP-Luis A. On December 30, 1998 of Myelodysplasia at home in Chapel Hill, NC. Formerly of Old Greenwich, CT and Francestown, NH, he was an advertising executive for many years with Reuben Donnelley, Time-Life Inc., Benton & Bowles and Venture Magazine. Predeceased by his first wife Kath
 MERVOSH-Edward. On December 29, 1998. Beloved father of Heather; loving companion of Patty Swain; cherished friend of many. Economic journalist and editor for Business Week magazine for 14 years; New York editor for the Economist Group; editor-in-chief of International Business magazine; mo
 SCHOTT-Richard, age 72 on Dec. 30, 1998. Pres. of Merchants Buying Syndicate. Beloved husband of Paula. Father of Leslie Kane & Stacy Dietzler. Grandfather of Chelsea. Services Frank E. Campbell, Sun. 1:30PM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to the 
 SILBERSTEIN-David of 146 Petticoat Ln, East Haddam, CT. Died December 30, 1998. He was born in New York City on September 5, 1917, son of the late Sarah and Harry A. Silberstein. He graduated from Townsend Harris High School, New York University and New York University Law School. He was a 
 VEREBAY-Max, died peacefully at home on December 29th, 1998 at age 85. Beloved husband of Mollie, father of Hildi & Leonard, grandfather of Alyssa, Andi, Wendi, Brad and Amy. Service Sunday, at 12:30, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, Atlantic Ave., Delray, FL. Memorial contributions may be m
 WRIGHT-Damon, playwright, 48, on December 28, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved son of Artis and Birdell Wright, and loving brother of Joni and Lydia, all of Long Beach, California, and of Carter and Rosemary, his sister-in-law, of Jefferson, TX. He will be sorely missed by his family and
 GOLDSTEIN-Frank H. - Would have been 107 today (but fell short by 22 years). He faced all the difficulties of our century and despite them persevered and by persevering he triumphed. He succeeded in raising five children who became contributors to the strength of America, his adopted countr
 Robert S. Johnson, an Eighth Air Force fighter pilot who shot down 27 German planes in an 11-month span in World War II and then came home  to a hero's welcome from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Sunday at St. Francis Hospital in Tulsa, Okla. He was 78 and the second-leading Ameri
 Don Taylor, a film actor of the 1940's and 50's who later turned to directing, died on Tuesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Taylor, who was born in Pittsburgh, beg
 Edward M. Mervosh, an economist and business journalist, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was heart failure, according to his daughter. Mr. Mervosh was an economist for the Research Institute of America, Chase Manhattan Bank and the 
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 GEIZHALS-Benek, born Cracow, Poland on December 31, 1921, died New York, New York on December 31, 1998. His deep-felt belief that he survived the atrocities of the Holocaust for a reason and purpose manifested itself in his love of family and Israel. He dedicated his life to these two loves
 GREENBERG-Harry, died peacefully at home on January 1. Beloved husband to Sylvia. Devoted father to Neil, Steven and Lucia. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Judy and Jane. After 52 years of teaching the fashion trade at the Fashion Institute of Technology, he recently retired as a Professor 
 MERVOSH-Edward. On December 29, 1998. Beloved father of Heather; loving companion of Patty Swain; cherished friend of many. Economic journalist and editor for Business Week magazine for 14 years; New York editor for the Economist Group; editor-in-chief of International Business magazine; mo
 PARKER-John A., age 81, of Mt. Sinai, NY, on December 30, 1998. Beloved husband of Catherine (nee Henry). Loving father of John T., Carol Ann Blaine and Alan. Dear father-in-law of Patricia and Armin. Cherished grandfather of John, Daniel, Stacy and Harry Oehl, Timothy and Joan, Kimberly, S
 PERLIN-Marshall (Mike). The family of Loretta Rowe-Perlin mourns the loss and celebrates the life of Loretta's beloved husband, Mike. they were deeply devoted to each other for more than 20 years. Mike was the cherished son-in-law of Lillian Rowe-Lynch, trusted friend and brother-in-law of 
 SCHAPIRO-David. A Holocaust survivor, born in Wilno, Russia, February 18, 1893. Beloved father of Nina Holzman, father-in-law of Sy Holzman. Grandfather to Luba Mayo and Larry Holzman. Great grandfather to Jason, Ronni and Michael Mayo. He died peacefully at his home December 31, 1998. Fune
 VEREBAY-Max, died peacefully at home on December 29th, 1998 at age 85. Beloved husband of Mollie, father of Hildi & Leonard, grandfather of Alyssa, Andi, Wendi, Brad and Amy. Service Sunday, at 12:30, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, Atlantic Ave., Delray, FL. Memorial contributions may be m
 WHALEN-Joseph, Sr., 91, of Avalon, NJ, died at his winter home in Brewster, NY on Thursday, December 31, 1998. He is survived by his son, Joseph Whalen, Jr., of Brewster, his daughter, Patricia Whalen of Westminster West, VT, and six grandchildren. A Mass of Christian burial will be celebra
 Walker Kirtland Hancock, a sculptor known for his monumental war memorials, celebratory depictions of Presidents and works with religious themes, died on Wednesday at his home in Gloucester, Mass. He was 97. In a career that nearly spanned the century, Mr. Hancock produced hundreds 
 William A. Lee, whose exploits in Nicaragua between the two world wars earned him three Navy Crosses, the nickname Ironman and a lasting place in Marine Corps legend, died last Sunday at Mary Washington Hospital in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 98 and lived in the nearby town of Ferry Farms.  
 David Manners, who starred in Hollywood films in the 1930's and played the hero in Tod Browning's 1931 ''Dracula'' and other classic horror movies of that day, died on Dec. 23 in the health center of a retirement community in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 98. Almost a decade ago, Mr.
 Eric Crull Baade, a scholar of the classics, teacher and co-author of a widely used Latin textbook series, died on Dec. 15 at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 70. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass. Dr. Baade taught and
 BALTIMORE-Harry. Loving husband of Sheila. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Julie, Keith and Nancy and Richard. Cherished grandfather of Dani, Ryan, Casey, Emily and David. Dearest son of Ruth. Harry's humor and loving way will stay in the hearts of his family and friends forever. Services Mon
 BAUM-Joseph Ben. Of NYC. Passed away at home on December 30, 1998. Adoring husband of Martha. He is survived by many nieces, nephews, grand nieces and nephews and great-grand nieces and nephews. He retired from the U.S.M.C. 1953 as a Master Sergeant. He was quite a guy. Services 1 PM Monday
 BJORKLUND-John ''Brodie'', Jr. Of Glen Head, NY. On December 31, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Loving father of Betsy (Shaun) Convey and Hank (Victoria). Dear grandfather of Tyler Convey. Also survived by his brother Paul and sister Marie Wilson. Visiting Monday 3-5 and 7-9 PM,
 BURR-Robert Page. On December 31, 1998, of Matinicus Island, Maine, formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, loving father of Susan, William, James, Jonathan, Elizabeth, and David, and devoted grandfather of ten grandchildren. Born in Mineola, NY, on September 28, 1922, t
 CASTELNUOVO-Dr. Lamberto G. Lamberto's loving family in Rome, Italy mourns his passing. He is survived by his niece Piera and her son Bruno, his nephew Paolo, nieces Rosella and Lori, sisterin-law Sally and great nieces and nephews Federico, Francesco, Gabrielle, Ricardo, Victoria and Olymp
 DUBOW-Harry. Cherished and beloved husband of Charlotte. Loving father to Marilyn, Martin, Renee & Robert. Devoted grandfather to Molly, Juliet, Jeremy, Matthew, Alicia, Acey, Katie-Rose and Devin. Dear brother of Ruth Hoffman. A caring and dedicated French teacher, he taught at Christopher
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 GEIZHALS-Ben. Dedicated volunteer for Israel. Survivor. A true friend. To Esther and family, our love. Paul and Rose Safro GEIZHALS-Benek, born Cracow, Poland on December 31, 1921, died New York, New York on December 31, 1998. His deep-felt belief that he survived the atrocities of 
 GOODWIN-William of NYC. Suddenly on Dec. 30, 1998. Husband of Maria Dudin, father of Andrew & Peter, son of Helen and Charles Goodwin, Jr. & brother of Patricia, Anita, Charles & Robert Goodwin. Will was a loving and devoted husband and father, a kind and caring son and brother, a loyal and
 GREENBERG-Harry, died peacefully at home on January 1. Beloved husband to Sylvia. Devoted father to Neil, Steven and Lucia. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Judy and Jane. After 52 years of teaching the fashion trade at the Fashion Institute of Technology, he recently retired as a Professor 
 LEVY-Leonard. Died January 1, 1999, late in his 97th year. His life was full and joyful and lived with integrity, grace and achievement. He graduated in 1924 from Dartmouth College and joined the Riverdale Drapery Manufacturing Co., which he and his partner took control of several years lat
 LEWIS-Jason K. Age 85, of NYC, on December 30, 1998. He is survived by his loving wife of 53 years, Verda Lewis, two dear sons, Donald E. Lewis of NYC and Peter S. Lewis of Santa Cruz, CA; sister Alice Kruger of West Newton, MA, brother Elliott Newmark of FL and five grandchildren living in
 PASTORE-Dr. Nicholas. Age 82, died December 26, 1998. Noted psychologist, author, lecturer and former professor at Queens College. Beloved brother of Dolores, Mildred and Vincent. He was dearly loved and will be missed by his family, friends and colleagues. He devoted his life to the pursui
 PRUDEN-Durward, New York University Professor Emeritus, passed away at his home in Manhattan, December 9th. He was 93 years old. Professor Pruden began his career in Texas as a teacher and academic dean of two colleges before coming to New York University where his Doctoral dissertation was
 SCHOTT-Richard, age 72 on Dec. 30, 1998. Pres. of Merchants Buying Syndicate. Beloved husband of Paula. Father of Leslie Kane & Stacy Dietzler. Grandfather of Chelsea. Services Frank E. Campbell, Sun. 1:30PM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to the 
 SEIDENBERG-Paul. January 7, 1928-December 21, 1998. Survived by his beloved wife, five adoring children, and ten grandchildren. We will forever keep you in our hearts and minds with the greatest love and memories. B. Seidenberg and Family       
 SILBERSTEIN-David of 146 Petticoat Ln, East Haddam, CT. Died December 30, 1998. He was born in New York City on September 5, 1917, son of the late Sarah and Harry A. Silberstein. He graduated from Townsend Harris High School, New York University and New York University Law School. He was a 
 TARRAN-Alvin, on December 29, 1998. Devoted husband of Adele. Beloved father of Jeffrey and Susan, Billy and Debbie, and Matthew and Jennine. Dear brother of Ruth Kabram. Loving grandfather of Leah, Emily, Gabriel, Benjamin and Nikolai. He was deeply loved and will be missed by all.        
 VEREBAY-Max. We observe with great sadness the passing of Max Verebay, age 85, one of the founders of Queens Group, Inc. From the earliest days at Brooklyn Tech with his lifelong partner Martin Kaltman, to the founding of Kaltman Press in New York City in 1932, and on to partnership with Ja
 WAND-Stanley W., 63. On December 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Zenia. Devoted father of Adam and Jordan. Devoted son of Fay and brother of Sondra. Loved by his family and friends. He will be sorely missed.       
 The Rev. Dr. Charles Earl Cobb, a civil rights advocate who led a major Protestant commission on racial justice, died Dec. 27 after a lengthy illness. He was 82 and lived in Washington, where he died. Dr. Cobb leapt to national prominence from the pulpit of St. John's Congregational
 George Jackson Eder, a lawyer and economist active in Latin American affairs, died last Wednesday in Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He had collapsed the previous evening while Christmas shopping at Wal-Mart, his son Richard said. He was 98. Born and raised in New York City, Mr
 Dr. Henry Gerard Schwartz, a neurosurgeon and lecturer who trained a new generation of specialists in his field at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, died there on Dec. 24 at St. Mary's Health Center. He was 89 and lived in suburban St. Louis. In recognition of h
 John D. McDonald, who with Alfred P. Sloan Jr. wrote ''My Years With General Motors,'' a classic volume on business strategy that has been used as a college text for 35 years, died Dec. 23 of respiratory failure, his daughter Joan McDonald Miller said yesterday. He was 92. Mr. McDon
 Marshall Perlin, a civil-liberties lawyer who was engaged on a decades-long quest to keep the Rosenberg spy case in the national consciousness, died last Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 79 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He suffered a brie
 Dr. Merle E. Frampton, an internationally known leader in the education and rehabilitation of the visually handicapped, died on Dec. 17 in Portland, Ore. He was 95. Dr. Frampton, the director of the New York Institute for the Education of the Blind from 1935 to 1971, established man
 Natale Laurendi, a New York criminal investigator whose expertise with lie detectors helped convict the guilty and clear the innocent for many years, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Laurendi joined the New York
 ACKER-Howard G. Died peacefully January 2. Loving husband of Helen, father of Ruth, father-inlaw of Paul Heller, grandfather of Michael, and brother of Louis. He enjoyed his profession as a CPA and his many community service activities. Memorial service on Thursday, January 7, 11 AM, at Tem
 BJORKLUND-John ''Brodie'', Jr. Of Glen Head, NY. On December 31, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Loving father of Betsy (Shaun) Convey and Hank (Victoria). Dear grandfather of Tyler Convey. Also survived by his brother Paul and sister Marie Wilson. Visiting Monday 3-5 and 7-9 PM,
 DUCHIN-Morris G. Captain, USN Ret. On January 2, 1999, at home in his 92nd year. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Leslie (Hugh) Heller and Paul. Cherished grandfather of Peter and Roger Heller, and uncle of Joel and Howard (Mattie) Hirschel and family. Services 11 AM, Tue
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 GOODWIN-William of NYC. Suddenly on Dec. 30, 1998. Husband of Maria Dudin, father of Andrew & Peter, son of Helen and Charles Goodwin, Jr. & brother of Patricia, Anita, Charles & Robert Goodwin. Will was a loving and devoted husband and father, a kind and caring son and brother, a loyal and
 KUSER-Edward G. Formerly of New York City, Elka Park, NY, and Tucson, AZ. On January 2, 1999. Alumnus of Fordham University and Fordham University Law School. Husband of Adelma Merz Kuser. Father of Cynthia Zokhrouf of Tucson, AZ, William H. Kuser of Mesa, AZ, Elizabeth Kuser of Denver, CO,
 LEVY-Leonard. Died January 1, 1999, late in his 97th year. His life was full and joyful and lived with integrity, grace and achievement. He graduated in 1924 from Dartmouth College and joined the Riverdale Drapery Manufacturing Co., which he and his partner took control of several years lat
 LEWIS-Jason K. Age 85, of NYC, on December 30, 1998. He is survived by his loving wife of 53 years, Verda Lewis, two dear sons, Donald E. Lewis of NYC and Peter S. Lewis of Santa Cruz, CA; sister Alice Kruger of West Newton, MA, brother Elliott Newmark of FL and five grandchildren living in
 McLAUGHLIN-Myles. The New York City Central Labor Council extends its deepest and most heartfelt condolences to the family of our President, Brian M. McLaughlin for the loss of his father Myles McLaughlin. Our thoughts and prayers are with Myles' wife, Ilene, their sons Brian and Stephen an
 O'CONNOR-Malachi K. Of Upper Montclair. On January 2, 1999. Husband of Christine Sheehan O'Connor. Father of Malachi and his wife, Bonnie; Mary Beth O'Connor, Christine Donohue and her husband Robert; Thomas and his wife, Beth. Also survived by four grandchildren. Funeral from the Hugh M. M
 PAOLUCCI-Henry. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Dr. Henry Paolucci, beloved husband of CUNY Board of Trustees Chairwoman Dr. Anne A. Paolucci. A noted scholar, prolific author, influential political leader and commentator, and distinguished alumnus of City College, he 
 PASTORE - Nicholas, 1916 - 1998, Professor Emeritus, Deptartment of Psychology, Queens College. Dr. Pastore was an internationally renowned member of our department, joining it in 1951. His colleagues remember him with affection as an exceptional teacher, an intellectual companion and a val
 PECK-David Warner. On January 2, 1999. Dear husband of Susan Harfield Peck. Father of Heather, Lisa and David. Brother of M. Scott Peck and son of the late Judge David W. and Elizabeth Peck. Stepfather to Amanda, Susie and Tony Leness. Funeral service at Saint Mark's Church, Westhampton Bea
 ROBBINS-Irving ''Rab.'' Madison, Wisconsin. 43 years principal, educator, NYC. Dear friend, husband, father, grandfather. He made the world a warmer place. Friends, Bob, Ann, Al, Margherita, Lee, Rose. Family, Esther, Sue, Paul, Michael.       
 TARRAN-Alvin. Beloved friend and cousin. His warmth, wit, generosity and loving kindness will live in our hearts and memories. Dottie, Marty, Leslie, Eric Payson Michele, Mark Rosenfield       
 WARING-Bernard J. 69 years old. Loving husband of Sandra. Devoted father of Susan and Ellen, and father-in-law of Gary. Caring brother to Aida and Saul. Adoring grandfather of Andrea, Lee, Sasha and Leah, and a loyal friend to many. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 Rolf Liebermann, a Zurich-born composer who was the dynamic general administrator of the Paris Opera from 1973 to 1980 after directing the Hamburg Opera for 13 years, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 88. Mr. Liebermann revitalized the Paris Opera after it had declined. He has been 
 Harold Edelman, an architect and teacher who helped to preserve some of New York's small treasures -- a park, an ornate library and a quiet church -- died on Dec. 21 at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice. He was 75. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Edelman, the fo
 Iron Eyes Cody, the actor who played an Indian shedding a tear at the sight of a littered American landscape in one of television's best-known and most-honored television commercials, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, the police said. He was 94. Mr. Cody played the noble In
 Jerry Quarry, a heavyweight contender of the late 1960's and early 1970's who faced the sport's greatest names of his era and then spent his final years debilitated by boxing-induced brain damage, died Sunday at Twin Cities Community Hospital in Templeton, Calif. He was 53. Quarry, 
 ACKER-Howard G. Died peacefully January 2. Loving husband of Helen, father of Ruth, father-inlaw of Paul Heller, grandfather of Michael, and brother of Louis. He enjoyed his profession as a CPA and his many community service activities. Memorial service on Thursday, January 7, 11 AM, at Tem
 AFZELIUS-Roland Carl. On January 3, 1999 at the age of 82 years, of Bayville, NY. Beloved husband of Marie, loving father of Ellen, Ron and Adrianne. Cherished grandfather of Kohl, Isabella, Cepi and Shiel. We will miss him dearly. Private services. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made
 ALFANI-Dario, M.D. Professor of Surgery, University of Rome ''La Satienza.'' Died in Rome on January 4th, 1999. Professor Alfani was an internationally respected transplant surgeon who made significant contributions to the field. His colleagues at Columbia University remember him with affec
 BONNIFAY - Pierre. Engineer. E.N.S.P. Died on January 1, 1999. Survived by his wife, children and grandchildren.       
 DRAKE-Thomas E. On January 1, 1999. Husband of the late Constance Drake and Elizabeth Twyeffort Drake. Father of Thomas Hoyt Drake and Daniel W. Drake. Stepfather of Joan Talbot, Carl Sangree, Walter Sangree, Harold Buttrick, the late Griffith Buttrick, John Buttrick, Katherine T. Greene an
 DUCHIN-Morris G. Captain, USN Ret. On January 2, 1999, at home in his 92nd year. Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Leslie (Hugh) Heller and Paul. Cherished grandfather of Peter and Roger Heller, and uncle of Joel and Howard (Mattie) Hirschel and family. Services 11 AM, Tue
 EVERETT-George Todd. Died peacefully at home in Chapel Hill, N.C. On January 1, 1999. Husband of Helen Burton Everett, father of Todd Everett, Davis Everett, and Susan Rawes and grandfather of Caleb and Silas Everett, Rachel and Samuel Rawes, and Zoe Everett. Retired in 1988 as General Mana
 GOODWIN-William. The Board, staff and community of the Hamilton-Madison Settlement House on Manhattan's Lower East Side, are deeply saddened by the passing of its immediate past President and current Chairman of the Board. We will miss the great contributions, legal expertise and love that 
 GRAFF-Louis. On January 3, 1999. Beloved father of Harriet Greenfield and father-in-law of Joel. Cherished grandfather of Stuart and Mark. Services Tuesday, 12:30 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment Beth David Cemetery. GRAFF-Louis. The entire membershi
 HATFIELD-Hurd. The faculty, Board of Trustees, and administration of Bard College mourn the passing of actor and alumnus William Rukard Hurd Hatfield. His acting entertained generations; he is most strongly identified with his portrayal of the title character in the Oscar-winning movie ''Th
 KORETZ-Paul. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 LYSOHIR-Walter. Died January 1, 1999 of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Queens, New York. Beloved husband of Betty, loving father of Steven and Bonnie, adored grandfather of Jack, Charlotte, Keith and Wallis. Cherished brother and uncle. Born July 10, 1917 in New York City, he was a pil
 PECK-David Warner. On January 2, 1999. Dear husband of Susan Harfield Peck. Father of Heather, Lisa and David. Brother of M. Scott Peck and son of the late Judge David W. and Elizabeth Peck. Stepfather to Amanda, Susie and Tony Leness. Phillips Exeter Academy '50, Princeton '54 and Harvard 
 PERLIN-Marshall. For the record, Mike was 78 and his Air Medal has three oak leaf clusters! Loretta       
 PERLMAN-Steven R., age 46 of Hartsdale died January 4, 1999. He is survived by his beloved wife Meryl, loving daughter Barbara Lindsay Perlman both of Hartsdale, his mother Shirley Jutkowitz of Belle Harbor, NY, brother Matthew of Manhattan, stepbrother Jacob Jutkowitz of Valley Stream. Fun
 ROSEN-Sidney. 86. Devoted husband of Shirley Aprill, father and grandfather. Died on December 26, 1998. He was a gentle, kind soul, spiritual, humanistic, curious, strong, a designer and builder and a good dancer.       
 SAMETT-Ed, age 71, whose full heart cared deeply about others passed away early January 4, 1999 at Nyack Hospital, Nyack, New York. Caring husband, father, brother, grandfather, uncle and friend, his joyous spirit brought music, laughter and intelligent compassion to others. Funeral service
 SMITH-Alexander, DDS. A warm and gentle person, his wisdom, kindness and humanity will endure as a beautiful inspiration for us all. Bea, Barry, Maryann, Pat, Lou, Andrew, Adam, Gillian and Jack       
 SNYDER-Shiekie. The Executive Board, local presidents, staff and members of District Council 37 are deeply saddened by the sudden death of the longtime president of Local 2021 New York City OffTrack Betting Corporation Employees. The Shiekie was a great trade unionist who fought long and ha
 WIZEMAN-John William (Bill) III, 69, of Hunter, New York, and formerly of Richmond Hill, New York, died Sat., January 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Mary Agnes (nee Murray). Beloved father of John William IV, Robert, Elizabeth, Phillip, Stephen, Marguerite, Michael, Matthew, Dennis an
 KIEFFER-Martin, on November 16, in Colmar, France, after a long illness. The Lycee Francais de New York mourns his passing. Professor of History and Geography from 1995 until his retirement in 1986. Ph.D., Columbia 1960, sports enthusiast, outstanding educator and friend. Memorial Mass on W
 Dr. Henry Paolucci, a prolific scholar of classical politics and literature, professor emeritus of government and politics at St. John's University and vice chairman of the New York Conservative Party for the last 20 years, died Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 7
 Jose Vela Zanetti, a Spanish artist who in the 1950's created the imposing mural ''Mankind's Struggle for a Lasting Peace'' at United Nations headquarters in New York, died on Monday in a hospital in Burgos in northern Spain. He was 85. In 1952, Mr. Vela Zanetti won an international
 ACKER-Howard. The Board of Directors and members of the East Sixties Neighborhood Association mourn the passing of our friend, advisor and treasurer. His council during the formation of ESNA was invaluable. He will be greatly missed. Judith MacLennon, Pres.       
 AFZELIUS-Roland Carl. On January 3, 1999 at the age of 82 years, of Bayville, NY. Beloved husband of Marie, loving father of Ellen, Ron and Adrianne. Cherished grandfather of Kohl, Isabella, Cepi and Shiel. We will miss him dearly. Private services. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made
 COLEMAN-Robert Spalding. 1921 to 1998. a New York public relations executive whose interests extended to thoroughbred horse racing, investment counseling and writing, died on December 16, 1998 after a long illness. He was 77. A native of Lake Forest, IL., Mr. Coleman was educated at The Phi
 CORSER-Paul. We, the Board of Directors and Staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, mourn the loss of our most esteemed colleague and valued friend, Paul Corser, due to AIDS-related complications. A determined warrior in the struggle against AIDS, Paul never lost sight of the ne
 DEGENSHEIN-Edward David, 87 years old died peacefully on Jan. 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving father of John Degenshein and Beth Diskin. Devoted grandfather of Robyn and Jonathan Diskin. Also survived by his sister Pearl Gordon. Graveside service Wednesday 11 A.M., at Montefiore C
 DOYLE-Paul R. Age 84. Died unexpectedly December 23, 1998 of complications of pneumonia, after a brief illness. Born in Providence, R.I. Son of Mary Ellen McLaughlin and Thomas F. Doyle. He was a Foreign Service graduate of Georgetown University and a U.S. Navy veteran of WWII; served as As
 DRAKE-Thomas E. On January 1, 1999. Husband of the late Constance Drake and Elizabeth Twyeffort Drake. Father of Thomas Hoyt Drake and Daniel W. Drake. Stepfather of Joan Talbot, Carl Sangree, Walter Sangree, Harold Buttrick, the late Griffith Buttrick, John Buttrick, Katherine T. Greene an
 FOLEY-John Francis, 55, lifetime resident of New York City, died on Tuesday, December 22, 1998, in Naples, FL. He attended St. John's College & served in the U.S. Army in Vietnam. Working with life-long companion, Charles Chevillot, he was integral in the opening of La Petite Ferme restaura
 FRAMPTON-Dr. Merle E. The Board of Trustees of The New York Institute For Special Education (founded in 1831 as The New York Institute For The Education Of The Blind) records with deep regret the death of one of its former Directors and nationally-renowned figure in the field of education a
 GOLDBERG-Emanuel. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our Honorary Board member, Emanuel Goldberg of Rochester and Palm Beach. He served with great distinction bringing to bear his broad Jewish communal ex
 GRENNAN-Philip. Died January 1, 1999. He was the husband of Sally. Father of Christopher, Phyllis Huffman, Christine Stiller and Matthew (deceased). A partner in the architectural firm of Poor and Swanke, he was Chief Design Engineer for all AT&T projects. The first anacoic chamber and reno
 HOWE-Robert E. Died Monday January 4th at Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, New Jersey. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on September 16, 1930, son of Edward H. Howe and Anna Coyle. Mr. Howe was a resident of Old Bridge, New Jersey for the past 37 years. He was a communicant of S
 LENARSKY-Maurice, M.D., on Tuesday, January 5, age 95 of Natick, MA, formerly of Riverdale, NY. Beloved husband of the late Mary (Bresnahan). A pediatrician, he graduated from NYU, Phi Beta Kappa and Johns Hopkins Medical School and was affiliated with several New York hospitals. He was on 
 MARQUARDT-William. January 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Marie. Loving father of William, Jr., Douglas and Anita. Cherished grandfather of Justin. He was the Past District Deputy Grand Master for the Third Manhattan District of the State of New York and Past Master of George Washington Masoni
 NEUFELD-Abraham. Of Hewlett Harbor, New York, veteran of World War II, active in many humanitarian causes. President of LI Committee of Soviet Jewry. Beloved husband of Helen, loving father of Jeffrey, Pam, and Robert. Cherished grandfather. We will miss you. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'
 O'MALLEY-Thomas J., Jr., The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas J. O'Malley, Jr., a Life Member of the Society, and extends sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian    
 PAOLUCCI-Henry. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Dr. Henry Paolucci, a distinguished alumnus of CCNY's Class of 1950. A noted scholar who taught ancient Greek and Roman history at CCNY and other leading colleges, he was also a prolific author and an important voice in poli
 ROSEMAN-Lawrence S. Of Forest Hills, New York. Age 69. Died January 5, 1999. Deeply beloved husband of Audrey. Beloved father of Donna and Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Edward. Loving brother of Rosalind and Daniel. Most cherished grandfather of Emma Faye. Loving uncle of Steven, Abbey, an
 SNYDER-Shiekie. The Executive Board, local presidents, staff and members of District Council 37 are deeply saddened by the sudden death of the longtime president of Local 2021 New York City OffTrack Betting Corporation Employees. Shiekie was a great trade unionist who fought long and hard f
 SPITZ-Dr. Arthur C. Beloved husband of Frances for 56 years. Much adored father of Darcy, and son-in-law Bob Yucikas. Lifelong companion of Jean and Harold Robbin. A son of Hungarian immigrants, he proudly served his country in the United States Army during World War II. A quiet man, he lov
 THORNTON-Richard. Died on January 4th in Selden, LI. He was born in the Bronx in 1941. He worked in advertising for JTJ Printing Corporation in New York City. He was the son of Arthur and Helen Jackowicz Thornton, both predeceased. He was the widower of Susan Thornton. He is survived by a b
 VISITACION-Florendo M. January 4, 1999 at the age of 88. Father of Edward, Laura, and Bladimir; grandfather of Cari, Joshua, Julie, and Dylan; father-in-law of John and Beverly. A tenth degree black belt and W.W. II Veteran, Grand Master ''Prof. Vee'' was the Founder of Vee Jitsu (''The Sys
 Robert E. Kirby, a former chief executive of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who masterminded a turnaround of the company in the 1970's, died last Thursday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Kirby, who retired from the company in 1983, suffered several
 Goro Yamaguchi, a player of the shakuhachi, or wooden flute, who was named a ''living national treasure'' in Japan and who introduced the instrument to many Western listeners, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 65 and lived in Tokyo. The cause was a heart attack, said Ralph Samuelson, 
 Michel Petrucciani, a French jazz pianist and composer with an international following whose keyboard virtuosity earned him comparisons to Art Tatum and Bill Evans, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 36 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a pulmonary infec
 BASS-Leonard. Beloved husband of Marion. Loving father of Barbara and Michael, Janet and George, David and Ronnie, and Shari and Russell. Adored grandfather of Elissa, Evan, Lauren, Stephanie, Sarah, and Emily. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 11:30 AM, Thursday
 COHN-Martin Lewis, III. On January 5th. Beloved husband of Nita and the late Myra. Devoted father of the late Audrey, of Elizabeth and Mayo Stuntz, Ellen Cohn and Larry Berkowitz, and Peggy Cohn and Peter Orlov. Dear brother of Raymond D. Cohn. Adored grandfather of Allison, James, Katie, A
 CORSER-Paul. The Board, staff and volunteers of the Treatment Action Group mourn the sudden, premature loss of Paul Corser. As a colleague, a friend and a person living with AIDS, Paul inspired us with his passionate commitment, despite the challenges of his own illness, to the search for a
 FEINBERG-Boris. Of Scarsdale, NY on January 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Sylvia Schwartz Feinberg. Father of Cynthia Jacobson, Renee Feinberg and Henry Feinberg. Father-in-law of Paul Jacobson and Janet Feinberg. Grandfather of Adam and Steven Jacobson, Sheelah Feinberg and Hannah, Rachel an
 HANLON-R. Brendan. Died of cardiac arrest at his home in Marshfield, MA, on January 2, 1999, at the age of 62. Brendan was an actor, author, accountant, jazz enthusiast, a rare literary man, and an illustrious raconteur on practically everything from the Marx Brothers to poet Seamus Heaney.
 HARWOOD-Dean B., 38, of Lake Forest, beloved husband of Kathleen; loving father of Cullen, Molly, Brooke, and Graham; dear son of Jerome and Ruthella Harwood; fond brother of Jill Legler. His intelligence, charm and irrepressible wit will be greatly missed. Memorial service 11 A.M. Thursday
 LAUFFER-Dr. Paul G.I., former President of the Society of Cosmetic Chemists, died on January 4, 1999 in Newtown, Bucks County, PA. He was 98. He received the SCC Maison G. De Navarre Award in 1962, and was a Director of the Association in the 1950's and 60's. He began a seminal report in co
 LEVINE-Paul. Died January 5, 1999 at ABC Hospital, Mexico City. Beloved father of Susan M. Levine, M.D., and grandfather of Thomas and Richard. Paul was born in New York City, where he worked as an accountant before moving to Mexico in 1952. A pioneering entrepreneur, he was successful in h
 MARKEL-Erich-Hans, 78. President of The Max Kade Foundation, Inc, New York, died January 4, 1999. His family and friends mourn the death of this exceptional man with a remarkable career and life. He was respected, admired and honored by so many and will be dearly missed. During his 40 years
 MATSAKIS-Steven C., of Wyckoff, N.J., died Tuesday, January 5, 1999, at the Hackensack University Medical Center. Beloved son of Victoria (nee Lucas) and the late Constantinos Matsakis, who died in 1986. Cherished husband of Mary (nee Finlayson), and adored father of Louise. Much loved brot
 NEUFELD-Abraham. The Long Island Committee for Soviet Jewry, its Officers and Board are saddened by the untimely loss of our dear friend and president. May the family remember how much he has been cherished by all who knew him. Lynn Singer, Executive Director       
 ROSEMAN-Lawrence S. Of Forest Hills, New York. Age 69. Died January 5, 1999. Deeply beloved husband of Audrey. Beloved father of Donna and Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Edward. Loving brother of Rosalind and Daniel. Most cherished grandfather of Emma Faye. Loving uncle of Steven, Abbey, an
 SCHWIMMER-Irving. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the death of Irving Schwimmer, beloved father of our esteemed colleague, Alan Schwimmer, D.D.S., Chief of Dental Medicine in the Department of Otolaryngology. To Dr. Schwimmer, the entire Schwimmer
 SERLIN-Anthony. The officers and staff of SSEU Local 371 note with sadness the untimely passing of Tony Serlin, longtime Associate Director of Research and Negotiations. Tony worked for the Union for over 25 years and helped negotiate all the Union's contracts since 1972. Over the years his
 STOLER-Elias A., age 88, formerly of NYC, died January 6th, 1999 in Minneapolis, MN. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. His kindness and gentleness will be missed by his family and friends.       
 KIEFFER-Martin. On November 16, in Colmar, France, after a long illness. The Lycee Francais de New York mourns his passing. Professor of History & Geography from 1955 until his retirement in 1986. Ph.D., Columbia 1960, sports enthusiast, outstanding educator and friend. Memorial service on 
 SWANSON-Elston H., past Chairman of the YMCA of Long Island died on December 27, 1998 at his home in Florida. A memorial service will be held at the Sea Cliff Gospel Church on Sea Cliff Avenue in Sea Cliff on Saturday, January 9 at 1:45 P.M.       
 Paul Corser, the senior program officer of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, died Monday at his home in Harlem. He was 37. The cause was AIDS related, his wife, Sally Morrison, said. A native of St. Paul, Mr. Corser graduated from New York University. As program officer, he
 Philip Sterling, an actor whose long career embraced theater, films, television and radio, died on Nov. 30 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications from myelofibrosis, a bone disease, his publicist said. M
 ADLER-Herbert . Died on Wednesday, January 6, 1999 in Naples, FL, having taken a very difficult path with great courage. Herbert was the only son of Lothar and Ellen Adler, and dearest friend and beloved husband of Susan. He was husband in first marriage to Elin and father of Eric and Marc.
 BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim . ''She weeps bitterly in the night and her tear is on her cheek''. A prince in Israel has fallen. A treasured jewel of the Jewish people has been called by the Almighty to return his soul to its eternal reward. An extraordinary and humble man whose very being radiate
 COHN-Martin L. . The Board of Directors and members of the Ocean Beach Club mourn the loss of long time friend and member Martin Cohn and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary       
 DACHS-Richard A. . Beloved son of Alan and Hilda. Brother to Carol and Enid. Brother-in-law to Robert. Nephew to Mary, Sally and Julie. Passed away suddenly Wednesday, January 6, 1999. His untimely passing left a vacant space in all our hearts. He will be sorely missed. He was a Deputy Gene
 DIEFENDORF-John B.., 67, of Georgetown, SC, died Tuesday. Husband of Patricia. Contributions in his memory to the Salvation Army Building Fund, PO Box M, Georgetown, S.C. 29442.       
 FEINBERG-Boris. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Boris Feinberg. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Sylvia, to his children and other members of his family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President       
 GOLDBERG-Rabbi Morton. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, age 97. Ordained in 1925, he served as rabbi of Temple Beth El in Fall River, MA when he was called to the pulpit of Temple B'nai Israel in 1937 where he served until becoming rabbi emeritus in 1972. We exten
 HAMMERSTEIN-James B.. We at The Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization celebrate the life of Jamie Hammerstein as we mourn his passing. We enjoyed his wisdom and his irreverent and wicked sense of humor. We loved him and felt that he loved us. His tall, graceful and handsome presence will live 
 JOSSEN-Ira A.. Beloved husband of Louise. Loving father of Jenifer and Jonathan. Cherished grandfather of Samuel and Elias. Decades of loyal and dedicated service to the Broadway theatre, Ira's death leaves a void in the lives of all the people he touched. In lieu of flowers, donations may 
 KAVESH-Nathaniel., 89. Last of the six sons of Rose and Isaac. Dearest brother of Fannie K. Goldstein of Canton, MA, generous uncle and grand-uncle and great-grand-uncle of many who loved him like the children he never had. A wise man who graduated CCNY and served in World War II. His life 
 KUTNY-Frank J.. 86. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died Sunday after a long illness. Survived by his wife of 47 years, Barbara Burns Kutny; son, James Kutny, of Clifton Park, N.Y.; and daughter Kathleen Kutny, of Portland, ME; and six grandchildren. He worked for the New York Racing Assn. for 40 years. 
 MANHEIM-Paul E.. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow, the passing of collector and longtime friend of the BMA, Paul E. Manheim, and extend condolences to his wife Simone and to his children Anthony Manheim, Martha Green and Emily Goldman
 MARKEL-Erich-Hans., 78. President of The Max Kade Foundation, Inc, New York, died January 4, 1999. His family and friends mourn the death of this exceptional man with a remarkable career and life. He was respected, admired and honored by so many and will be dearly missed. During his 40 year
 MATSAKIS-Steven C.., of Wyckoff, N.J., died Tuesday, January 5, 1999, at the Hackensack University Medical Center. Beloved son of Victoria (nee Lucas) and the late Constantinos Matsakis, who died in 1986. Cherished husband of Mary (nee Finlayson), and adored father of Louise. Much loved bro
 PETRUCCIANI-Michel. Suddenly on January 6, 1999. Acclaimed musician and composer. Survived by his son, Alexander, both parents and brothers, Isabelle Maile, and Marie-Laure and Rachid Roperch. Visitation on Friday, 1-2PM only at Krtil Funeral Home-Yorkville Funeral Service Inc. 1297 First A
 POMPEI-Bruno M.., January 4, 1999, beloved husband of the late Ellen Gherlone Pompei. He is survived by his daughter Ornella Winston, his son, Mark, and sister Bianca Arengi. He will be missed by his grandchildren, David, Lori, and Robin and great grandchildren Lilia and Sarah.       
 ROSEMAN-Lawrence S.. Of Forest Hills, New York. Age 69. Died January 5, 1999. Deeply beloved husband of Audrey. Beloved father of Donna and Jeffrey. Dear father-in-law of Edward. Loving brother of Rosalind and Daniel. Most cherished grandfather of Emma Faye. Loving uncle of Steven, Abbey, a
 SAMETT-Ed. The Board and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Greater New York Chapter, are profoundly saddened by the loss of our esteemed former Board Member and Treasurer, Ed Samett. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Molly, his children and grandchildren. He wil
 SOLOMON-Dr. Alfred. May his memory be blessed. We shall miss him. May our dear Evelyn, Todd and Julia be comforted by all who mourn him. Love, Aunt T, Cousin D, Lainiekins, Steven, Carole, Leslie, Erica and Jill       
 STONE-Lester. The officers, members of the Board and the Administration of OHEL, BAIS EZRA and The Lifetime Care Foundation for the Jewish Disabled mourn the passing of the beloved father of James L. Stone, Commissioner of the New York State Office of Mental Health. Commissioner Stone and h
 STONESIFER-Richard James. 76. Died Tuesday afternoon at his home after an illness. A graveside memorial service will be Saturday at 11 AM in Cedardale Cemetery in Mullins. Rev. Paul Frey will officiate. Dr. Stonesifer was born June 21, 1922 in Lancaster County, PA. A son of the late Rev. Pa
 ZELIN-Jeffrey. The Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of our member and extends its heartfleft condolences to his entire bereaved family. May they be comforted among those who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Mark Bunim, Presi
 SWANSON-Elston H.. past Chairman of the YMCA of Long Island died on December 27, 1998 at his home in Florida. A memorial service will be held at the Sea Cliff Gospel Church on Sea Cliff Avenue in Sea Cliff on Saturday, January 9 at 1:45 P.M.       
 Dr. Paul M. Zoll, a Harvard cardiologist and pioneer in developing the heart monitors, pacemakers and defibrillators used by millions of people around the world, died on Tuesday at the Heathwood Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 87 and had lived at the nursing
 Paul E. Manheim, a collector of Asian art, died on New Year's Day at his home in East Hampton, N.Y., 55 years to the day after he became a partner at the old Wall Street investment house of Lehman Brothers. He was 93. It was Mr. Manheim who led Lehman Brothers into providing individ
 Charles Francis Adams, a former president and chairman of Raytheon, the military and commercial electronics manufacturer, died Tuesday at his home in Dover, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Adams joined the Raytheon Manufacturing Company as executive vice president in 1947 and became president 
 James Hammerstein, a producer and a frequent director of the musicals of his father, Oscar Hammerstein 2d, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Dena. In more than four decades in show business, Mr. Hammerstein was
 James Holmes, an organist and choir director long associated with the Episcopal Church of St. Matthew and St. Timothy on West 84th Street in Manhattan, and a sometime composer of considerable skill, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cancer, which he
 Dr. Louis Jolyon West, a charismatic leader in psychiatry whose work centered on people who have been taken to the limits of human experience, like ''brainwashed'' prisoners of war, kidnapping victims and abused children, died last Saturday in his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. The
 CORSER-Paul. With the passing of Paul Corser, humanity has lost a good friend and the AIDS crisis a valiant warrior. Paul's dedication and unwavering spirit will live on however and serve to guide all of us on the road ahead. Our sincere condolences to his wife Sally Morrison and his family
 HAMMERSTEIN-James B. The cast and companies of ''I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change'' and ''Over The River And Through The Woods'' mourn the sudden passing of our loyal friend, mentor, partner and producer. As a producer, Jamie embodied the ideal his father once described as, ''An ideal
 HANSEN-Frederick H. On Jan. 7, 1999. Loving father of Anthony Craig, Frederick James, Astar Elizabeth, & stepfather of Jeffrey. Adoring grandfather of Linnea, Lorielle, Sean & Evan David. Dear uncle of Peggy Anne. Historian, businessman, raconteur, cherished and lifelong friend to so many h
 MANHEIM-Paul E., age 93. On January 1, 1999, of heart failure in Easthampton, attended by his wife of thirty years, Simone Hegeman Gardner. Brother of Frank Manheim of London, Louise Espy of Manhattan and the late Alice Kaplan. Father of Martha Green and Anthony A. Manheim of Brooklyn and E
 MARCUS-Jay M. The Marcus family mourns the loss of their devoted husband, father, brother, uncle and mentor, Jay Mordechai Marcus. Son of Solomon & Bessie Marcus, his immutable drive taught and inspired, opening our horizons to culture through his descriptions of books, food, love of arts, 
 MARKEL-Erich-Hans, 78. President of The Max Kade Foundation, Inc, New York, died January 4, 1999. His family and friends mourn the death of this exceptional man with a remarkable career and life. He was respected, admired and honored by so many and will be dearly missed. During his 40 years
 PETRUCCIANI - Michel. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist, Michel Petrucciani, on January 6, 1999 in New York City at the age of 36. Mr. Petrucciani was a dazzling pianist with a generous and an indef
 When he started a securities firm under his own name in 1967, Sanford Charles Bernstein made sure that hurried investors would not fail to notice. To announce the firm, the 41-year-old upstart ran a series of full-page newspaper ads emphasizing in bold, black type a single word: ''Bernstein
 Florendo M. Visitacion, who built upon childhood experiences in a rural Philippine village to develop and promote his own eclectic and well-known system of martial arts in New York, died on Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 88. His daughter, Justice Laura Visitacion Lewis of the 
 Leon M. Goldstein, the gentle, genial, politically savvy president of Kingsborough Community College of the City University of New York and a leading candidate for New York City schools chancellor in 1995, died in his sleep Friday night at his home in Manhattan, a CUNY spokesman said. He wa
 Ntsu Mokhehle, who introduced the former British protectorate of Lesotho to modern politics, died on Wednesday after falling ill during his 80th birthday party. He became sick on Dec. 26 and died in a hospital in Bloemfontein, South Africa, The Associated Press reported. The
 ACKERMAN-Seymour ''Cy'' . On December 24, 1998 at age 80 peacefully at his Phoenix residence, formerly of Plainview, NY. Navy veteran, master mason, importer of dental supplies. Beloved husband of Geraldine (deceased). Devoted father of Joel (Marie), Ian (Wendy), Wendy Stephens (Chris). Ado
 BERNSTEIN-Zalman. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Zalman Bernstein, one of the most significant philanthropists of this generation. His philanthropic endeavors, through the AVI CHAI Foundation and the Sanford C
 BLECHMAN-Burt. Age 71. On December 29, 1998 in Providence, Rhode Island of pancreatic cancer. Survived by his mother, Mae and brother, R.O. Blechman; nephews, Nicholas and Max; and companion John Marsh. His first novel, ''How Much'' was adapted by Lillian Hellman for Broadway, and praised b
 BUCKLIN-Edward Robbins (Ted). Passed away in Millbrook, NY on January 6th, 1999. He was born in Los Angeles on January 28th, 1921, and lived his first thirty-two years in Pasadena, Calif. He attended The Thacher School in Ojai, and graduated from Yale University in 1942. He served as an Off
 DWORZAN-George R. Artist, World War II Army Air Force veteran, educator, musician and beloved friend. His life was a sacred dance. His spirit now sits centered in eternal bliss-om shanti.       
 FURMAN-Abraham L., DDS. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Beloved father of Andrea, Kim and Daniel. Brother of Beatrice Nortman and William Furman. Grandfather of Erika, Sean, Jonathan, Kelly, Rachel, Jeffrey and Brian. Deceased January 8, 1999 in Sarasota, FL. Dr. Furman practiced dentistry and 
 GALLOP-Luis A. On December 30, 1998 of Myelodysplasia at home in Chapel Hill, NC. Formerly of Old Greenwich, CT and Francestown, NH, he was an advertising executive for many years with Reuben Donnelley, Time-Life Inc., Benton & Bowles and Venture Magazine. Predeceased by his first wife Kath
 GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The family of Leon M. Goldstein celebrates his life and mourns his passing on January 8, 1999. Beloved husband of Mary and dear father of Michael and Lisa, his life was one of giving to others, most especially of giving of himself. He was constant in his loving commitment 
 HAMMERSTEIN-James B. The cast and companies of ''I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change'' and ''Over The River And Through The Woods'' mourn the sudden passing of our loyal friend, mentor, partner and producer. As a producer, Jamie embodied the ideal his father once described as, ''An ideal
 HANSEN-Frederick H. On Jan. 7, 1999. Loving father of Anthony Craig, Frederick James, Astar Elizabeth, & stepfather of Jeffrey. Adoring grandfather of Linnea, Lorielle, Sean & Evan David. Dear uncle of Peggy Anne. Historian, businessman, raconteur, cherished and lifelong friend to so many h
 HERRICK-Ira T. January 6, 1999. Unique individual. Accomplished art director in advertising, TV, print and publication. A friend, husband, father and grandfather. Charming, he will be missed by all whom he touched with his wit and anecdotes.       
 MANHEIM-Paul E., age 93. On January 1, 1999, of heart failure in Easthampton, attended by his wife of thirty years, Simone Hegeman Gardner. Brother of Frank Manheim of London, Louise Espy of Manhattan and the late Alice Kaplan. Father of Martha Green and Anthony A. Manheim of Brooklyn and E
 MARCUS-Jay M. The Marcus family mourns the loss of their devoted husband, father, brother, uncle and mentor, Jay Mordechai Marcus. Son of Solomon & Bessie Marcus, his immutable drive taught and inspired, opening our horizons to culture through his descriptions of books, food, love of arts, 
 MARQUEZ-Cecil G., 91, physician, died at home in New Rochelle January 8, 1999. His family mourns his passing with deep sorrow. He is survived by his wife, Gloria, and children, Yolanda, Donald, Cecil Jr., Camilo and Rita. Grandfather of twelve. Great-grandfather of thirteen. Funeral was pri
 PETRUCCIANI - Michel. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist, Michel Petrucciani, on January 6, 1999 in New York City at the age of 36. Mr. Petrucciani was a dazzling pianist with a generous and an indef
 PUSHMAN-Armand. January 8, 1999, age 98. Beloved son of the late Hovsep and the late Hulia Pushman, devoted brother of the late Arsene Pushman. He was the last surviving son of the celebrated American Armenian artist Hovsep Pushman. Armand and his brother were partners in Pushman & Company 
 SHAUL-John Melvin. On January 7th. at Lenox Hill Hospital. Dearly beloved son of the late Ray L. and Adele C. Shaul. He was 89. Former Medical Director of American Home Products. Survived by his long-time companion, Arnold James Hamilton; his sister-in-law Virginia and two nieces, Pamela Ro
 Abdel-Latif Baghdadi, an energetic Egyptian Air Force officer who helped Gamal Abdel Nasser oust Egypt's last sovereign, King Farouk, in 1952 and then held key posts in Nasser's Government, died late Friday. He was 81. He was hospitalized on Friday for complications from liver cance
 Lorin E. Price, a theatrical producer, died on Dec. 28 at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 77. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Price began producing in 1959, beginning Off Broadway with shows like ''The Mime and Me'' and ''The Tiger Rag.'' His first Bro
 Orlandus Wilson, whose bass voice was the foundation of the Golden Gate Quartet's gospel harmonies, died on Dec. 30 in Paris, where he lived. He was 81. The Golden Gate Quartet had a huge influence on American sacred and secular music. Performing in clubs and concert halls as well a
 ARKIN-Benjamin. 77, of Boca Raton, FL and Dobbs Ferry, NY. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Leslie and Russell; devoted father-in-law of Stephen Horowitz and Elaine B. Arkin; adoring grandfather of Anna Irene Arkin. Born May 6, 1921 in NYC, died January 8, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL of
 BERNSTEIN-Zalman C. We mourn the loss of the dynamic presence of Zalman Bernstein in our minyon and his cherished friendship. We extend heartfelt condolences to Mem and Rachel Leah. Special friends from The Auxiliary Minyon Congregation Ahavath Torah Englewood, NJ ST#       
 FENSTER-Philip S., D.D.S. Orthodontist and librarian passed away January 9, 1999, after a brief illness. Loving husband of Ruth, devoted father of Michael (Sandy) and Linda, brother of the late Rhoda Daum Kenner. Funeral Tuesday, January 12, 11 AM, at The United Jewish Center, 141 Deer Hill
 FURMAN-Abraham L., DDS. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Beloved father of Andrea, Kim and Daniel. Brother of Beatrice Nortman and William Furman. Grandfather of Erika, Sean, Jonathan, Kelly, Rachel, Jeffrey and Brian. Deceased January 8, 1999 in Sarasota, FL. Dr. Furman practiced dentistry and 
 GOLD-Martin, M.D., 80 years old, died the kind of death, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on January 9, 1999, that he had always termed a ''blessing'' - one that came quickly and without great suffering. The lessons of his life can be measured by his achievements in the medical world and the gi
 GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. CUNY has lost one of its most imaginative and productive sons. His work has had a transforming effect on Kingsborough Community College and beyond. On a personal basis, I've lost a special friend. Maggi and I convey our heartfelt condolences to Mary, Lisa and Michael and o
 KINSEY-Robert S. Age 84, of Chestertown, MD, died Friday, January 8, 1999. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ, he attended Antioch College and graduated from University of Cinncinnati. He is survived by his wife, Minnie Sherrill Kinsey and a son, George H. Kinsey of Milford, NJ, and a daughter, Marion
 NEUFELD-Abraham. A man of character, a man of strength, our dear uncle. May God bless his soul. Phyllis and Herman Steinberg       
 NGUYEN-Ngoc San. Age 88, on December 25, 1998. Former President of the Saigon Bar Vietnam. Vice president of the International Association of Lawyers. Honorary Attorney at Law, Paris Bar, France. President of the Vietnamese Laywers Association Overseas. Interned at Fairview Cemetery, Westfi
 PAGE-Walter H. Of Cold Spring Harbor, NY. Died January 8. Husband of Jane N. Page, who died December 15, 1998. He leaves three children, Jane Mallinson, Walter and Mark, and eight grandchildren. Memorial service at 12 noon, Wednesday, January 13, Saint John's Church, Cold Spring Harbor. Int
 PUSHMAN-Armand. January 8, 1999, age 98. Beloved son of the late Hovsep and the late Hulia Pushman, devoted brother of the late Arsene Pushman. He was the last surviving son of the celebrated American Armenian artist Hovsep Pushman. Armand and his brother were partners in Pushman & Company 
 ROSS-Rodrick Tyree. 50. Professional singer and teacher, died on January 3, 1999. He held degrees from the University of Michigan and Morgan State University. Family and friends mourn the death of this extraordinary individual and acknowledge his unique qualities of compassion, wisdom and g
 SHAUL-John Melvin. On January 7th. at Lenox Hill Hospital. Dearly beloved son of the late Ray L. and Adele C. Shaul. He was 89. Former Medical Director of American Home Products. Survived by his long-time companion, Arnold James Hamilton; his sister-in-law Virginia and two nieces, Pamela Ro
 SUSSMAN-Solomon (Cy). 86, passed away Saturday, January 9, 1999. Beloved and devoted husband of Beatrice for 61 years. Loving father of Sydelle Chusid and the late Gerald Chusid, and Larry and Gayle Sussman. Best poppa of Elyse and Lee Alper, Debra Youngswick, Richard and Lisa Chusid, Dana 
 TAMARKIN-Norman R., M.D. Age 60. A prominent Washington, DC, psychiatrist and national expert on political psychology died suddenly while battling a long illness. Born in Youngstown, OH, Dr. Tamarkin graduated from Ohio State Medical School. After completing psychiatric training at Illinois
 WEST-Dr. Louis Jolyon. Professor of Psychiatry at UCLA School of Medicine since 1969, Department Chairman and Director of Neuropsychiatric Institute until 1989, at his home in Los Angeles, January 2, 1999. He will be remembered by colleagues, students, patients and others he helped, encoura
 Brian Moore, the author of 19 novels, including ''The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne,'' died yesterday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 77. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Jean Denney. With his sparse, clear prose and lonely characters stifled by a narr
 Former Representative Carl Elliott, a Democrat from rural Alabama who sacrificed his political career to the principles of social justice, died Saturday at his home in Jasper, Ala. He was 85. Having grown up poor, Mr. Elliott took pride in serving as a prime mover of the National De
 BERNSTEIN-Zalman. The Boca Raton Judaic Fellows Program and the Yeshiva High School of Broward, Dade, and Palm Beach County mourns the loss of one of the great Jewish leaders of our generation, Zalman Chaim Bernstein. Zalman was not only a visionary, he gave life to his dreams by creating t
 CECILIO-Luis P. On January 10, 1999, at age 90. Beloved husband of Jeanette (nee Cohen), loving father of Diane Lazinsky, & Alan Cecilio, devoted grandfather to Lauren, Cara, & Niki. Memorial services at John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave, NYC, Wednesday January 13, from 6-9 P.M. Inter
 COHN-Martin Lewis III. The Trustees and staff of New York University School of Medicine extend their deepest condolences to Laurence Tisch, distinguished former Chairman of the Board of New York University, and his wife Billie on the loss of their brotherin-law Martin L. Cohn. Family member
 DOSKOW-Ambrose. A trademark litigation expert, who practiced law in New York for over 50 years, died January 9, 1999, shortly after his 90th birthday. Following graduation from Columbia's College and Law School, he clerked for Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo on the U.S. Supreme Court. Mr. Dosko
 DUSSEAU-John L. On January 9, 1999, resident of Waverly Heights in Gladwyne, PA, age 86 years, retired Vice President and Editor-inChief of W.B. Saunders Company, Inc. Pre-deceased by his wife of 41 years, Audrey Augustine Dusseau, and by his second wife of 14 years, the former Sheila Sloan
 FISCHER-Maurice E. Died on Sunday, January 10, in Southbury. He was the husband of Suzanne (Carey) Fischer, he was born January 1, 1912 in NYC. He spent his entire business career with United Merchants & Manufacturers of New York City where he attained the office of Executive Vice President
 GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The City College of New York mourns the passing of President Leon M. Goldstein of Kingsborough Community College, who was also a distinguished alumnus of CCNY. Under his leadership, Kingsborough became one of the nation's most innovative and successful community colleges. 
 NEURINGER-Irv, 86, of Bethlehem, NH, originally of Brooklyn on December 3, 1998. He will be deeply missed by his beloved daughter Karen, his sons Martin (Maureen) and Allen (Martha), his sister Frances Yarmish and his grandsons Jordan, Jeremy, and Christopher. He was widely known for his su
 PAGE-Walter H. Of Cold Spring Harbor, NY. Died January 8. Husband of Jane N. Page, who died December 15, 1998. He leaves three children, Jane Mallinson, Walter and Mark, and eight grandchildren. Memorial service at 12 noon, Wednesday, January 13, Saint John's Church, Cold Spring Harbor. Int
 RAMCHANDANI-Atma. The family of Atma C. Ramchandani celebrates his life and deeply mourns his passing on January 10, 1999 at age 95. Beloved husband of the late Savitri and dear father of Sunny and Prem. Grandfather of Ariel and Talia. He will be long remembered for his contribution to the 
 RITZENBERG-Milton. 85. Of Washington, DC. Builder and Breeder of thoroughbred race horses, passed away on Friday, January 8, 1999. He was a graduate of Rensselaer College. Mr. Ritzenberg was past president of the Virginia Thoroughbred Association and board member of the Morven Park Equine C
 SARDONO-Charles. The Board of Directors, Tenants/Shareholders and employees of 480 Park Avenue express our heartfelt sorrow at the untimely passing of our longtime employee and friend. Mr. Sardono's concern and manner were always appreciated by those who knew him as he cheerfully performed 
 SCOPAS-Stephen S. Sr., on January 9, 1999. Beloved husband of Cleonike (nee Andromidas). Loving father of Pamela Basedow (her husband William) and the late Stephanie Ann Scopas & Stephen Scopas Jr. Cherished grandfather of Stephen William and Stephanie Cleonike Basedow. Mr. Scopas served tw
 WIND-Gerald. Died Saturday, January 9, 1999 at the age of 70 after a long battle with ALS. A founder and pillar of the Jewish community of Monsey, N.Y. and current resident of Sunny Isles, Florida. He will be remembered for his generosity, sensitivity and fine character. Former President of
 YORK-Herman II. On January 11, 1999, of Upper Brookville, New York. Beloved husband for 53 years of Loretta H. Dear father of Kathleen A., and Richard C. (Stephanie). He was retired from Architectural Practice as a specialist in housing design; over 3/4 million homes have been built from Yo
 Frederick Zissu, former chairman and chief executive of the discount store chain Vornado Inc., died of heart failure on Saturday at the St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. A resident of North Caldwell, N.J., Mr. Zissu was 85. Shortly after getting a law degree from New Y
 Gavin W. H. Relly, the retired chairman of the Anglo American Corporation who in 1985 led a delegation of business leaders to meet the banned African National Congress in Zambia, died on Sunday in Hermanus, South Africa. He was 72. The cause of death was complications of cardiac sur
 Gilbert M. Haggerty, a skillful and good-humored aide to six metropolitan editors at The New York Times, died on Sunday at his home in Forked River, N.J. He was 79. He had leukemia, his family said. Mr. Haggerty, known as Gil, was the administrative assistant to the metropol
 Dr. Manfred L. Karnovsky, a biochemist who cast new light on the way white blood cells fight off bacteria, died on Jan. 7 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. A resident of Cambridge, he was 80 and had worked at Harvard University for 50 years. His research showed how white 
 Myles Tierney, the Associated Press newsman who died Sunday after being shot by a Sierra Leone rebel while covering the wars, famines and riots of West Africa, was living precisely the life he had sought, according to his mother, Hanne Tierney of Manhattan. He was 34 and was station
 BAER-James B. The Board and staff of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the passing of James Baer of Boca Raton, FL, successful businessman, philanthropist and Jewish community leader. James, an esteemed member of the American Associates Board of Chancellors,
 BERNSTEIN-Zalman. We mourn the loss of a close friend of Jewish education around the world. His Avi Chai Foundation provided resources for communities to create new Jewish educational opportunities. We feel privileged to be the first high school in the world to receive the Avi Chai interest
 BROWN-Robert J. Age 87, of Vero Beach, Fla., died at home on Jan. 12, 1999. Former resident of Old Westbury, NY; owned Robert Chevrolet, Hicksville, NY, with his surviving son Robert for the last 40 years. In addition to his son he is survived by his wife Joan and six grandchildren: Scott, 
 CLINE-Guernsey Chaffee passed away Wednesday, January 6, 1999, at his home in Gulfstream, Florida. Mr. Cline would have been 92 on February 16. He was born in Amenia, NY and graduated from Pawling School, Pawling, NY in 1927. He was wed to Marjorie Preston Burns & moved to Bermuda to instal
 CORSER-Paul. The Board of Directors and staff of the AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition (AVAC) express our deep sadness at the loss of our colleague Paul Corser, Program Officer at the American Foundation for AIDS Research (AmFAR). In the struggle to end the AIDS epidemic, Paul was smart, dedi
 GAD-Naftali on January 9, 1999, at age 62. Beloved husband of Shifra, devoted father of Michael, Joseph, Lilly and Peggy, adored grandfather of Eddie, Nathan & Aaron, loving father-in-law of Irina, David and Morris. Former President of the Diamond Trade Association. He will be remembered fo
 GOODMAN-Bernard. We mourn the passing of our partner and friend. He always provided thoughtful business guidance and was a leader in the real estate appraisal profession. Our deepest sympathies to his family and children, Mark, Steven and Beth and all who loved him. The Officers and Employe
 KOCHER-Eric passed away peacefully at home at age 86 on January 2, 1999. Beloved husband of Margaret Helburn Kocher, devoted and gentle father of Eric Glenn of Atlanta, GA, Terry of Anchorage, AL, Christopher of San Francisco, CA and Debra of Tenafly, NJ. Grandfather to four grandsons and t
 LESCH-Samuel. Died peacefully in his sleep in Santa Rosa, Ca. on January 7, 1999. Loving husband for 60 years to Annie Lesch of Rohnert Park. Loving father of Harry Lesche of Eureka and Barbara Lesche McCaffry of Rohnert Park. Beloved grandfather of Benjamin Joseph Lesche and Jacob Paul Les
 LEVINE-Lester. Died January 11, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Barbara. Loving father of Jeffrey and Steven. Brother of Charlotte Goldberg and Robert Levine. He will be missed by all.       
 McPARLAND-Joseph. Beloved husband of Bernice, died peacefully on Sunday, January 10, 1999. He is survived by son Daniel J. and his wife Rosemarie, beloved grandfather of Megan and Tara, devoted brother of Rita, Helen, Irene, Marion. Funeral mass will be held at St. Ignatius Loyola on Thursd
 RIVERA-Ferdinando, 65, of New York died December 20, 1998. He is survived by Anthony Rivera, Michael Rivera, Richard Westbrook, Roseanne Rivera, Lisa Donovan, Diana Apodaca and 13 grandchildren. Services were private.       
 SHEAHAN-John. Retired Lt. Commander-US Army, former FBI agent and lawyer on January 7, 1999. Survived by his brother Donald, sister-in-law Emily, and lifelong friend Jeanne Cole. Visiting Thursday, 2-5 and 7-9 at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st St. Funeral mass Friday 10A.M.
 SPIVAK-Harold P. Died January 12, 1999. Devoted husband of Ruth Spivak, loving father of Steven and Barbara Spivak, father-in-law of Sandy and Howard, devoted grandfather of Lisa, Eric, Katie, Adam and Elizabeth, dear brother of Pearl Levy & Evelyn Weingold and the late Ruth, Dorothy and Mu
 THOMASSET-Paul A. Born on November 30, 1902, passed away January 8, 1999. Paul came alone to this country from France when he was sixteen. At 20 years of age he attended Cooper Union and studied engineering. Paul became a pigment chemist and was general manager of Anshcher Siegle in Staten 
 CATES-Joseph. On October 10, 1998. The New York Friars Club and the Cates family deeply mourn his passing and extend an invitation to attend a memorial service on Monday, January 25 at 2pm at Director's Guild Theater, 110 West 57 Street, NYC.       
 William H. Whyte, the author who defined corporate conformity and warned against its growth in the classic book ''The Organization Man,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Whyte, who was an editor of Fortune magazine when he wr
 Dr. David Newton, who shaped the introduction of open admissions at the City University of New York as chairman of its Task Force on Open Enrollment in 1969, died on Monday at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 76. He had suffered from serious heart and kidney ailments, his wife, L
 Harold P. Spivak, a lawyer for many theatrical unions for more than 40 years, died on Tuesday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Spivak was born in Savannah, Ga., grew up in New York and graduated from City College and New York University Law School. In 1989, 
 Leo Cherne, who turned the International Rescue Committee into the largest agency in the world for the relief and resettlement of refugees, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A lawyer, economist and businessman, Mr. Cherne became chairma
 BOUTON-George. Of Glen Head, NY on January 13, in his 101st year. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Loving father of Irene Olmstead. Dear grandfather of six. Visiting Sunday 2-4:30 and 7-9 PM, Whitting Funeral Home, Glen Head. Funeral service on Monday 11 AM, First Presbyterian Church of G
 CHERNE-Leo. Died peacefully Monday night at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long illness at age 86. Devoted father of Gail Gambino, the wife of Dr. Richard Gambino, grandfather of Erica Lynn Gambino, and brother of Jack Cherne. Leo's wife Phyllis died in 1995. Family services will be held Thur
 COHEN-Irving. On January 13, 1999. Beloved husband of Phyllis for 65 years. Loving father of Peter and Laurence. Adoring grandfather of Elissa, Joshua, Adam and Jonathan. Dear brother of Philip Baskir. Graveside service Thursday at Mount Pleasant Cemetry, Hawthorne, New York. COHEN-
 COMBE-Ivan D.. 88, of Greenwich, CT and Dorset, VT. Died January 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Mary Elizabeth Combe, devoted father of Diana Bickford, Juliette Larson and Christopher Combe. He is also survived by six granddaughters and a grandson. His friends and associates are grateful for 
 DAVEY-Joseph ''Mark''., 67, of Bradenton, Florida died January 9, 2000 in Bradenton. Born in the Bronx in, 1932 he moved to Bradenton after retiring from his position as Guidance Counselor at George Washington HS in NYC. He was the husband of Martha Davey and father of Colin, Joshua, Owen a
 FATT-Arthur C. 94. Of New York City and Delray Beach, Fla. Died Tuesday evening, January 12, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Barbara C., proud father of Marjorie Chester and Barbara Costikyan both of New York City, grandfather of Nancy Cedillo of Madrid, Spain, Prisci
 FRAYNE-Gabriel M.. Age 71. Of Croton-on-Hudson, New York. Died at home January 13, 2000 of complications from throat cancer. Beloved husband of Ruth Frayne. Devoted father of Christopher, Gabriel, Jr., Philip and Nicole. Beloved grandfather of Thomas, Nicolas and Adriana. A graduate of the 
 GIFFORD-James P. Age 56. Of New York City. On January 9, 1999. Respected civic leader, lobbyist. President and founder of Hudson Strategies, Inc. Former President of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Executive Vice President of the New York City Partnership. Active, committ
 GREENFIELD-Lloyd, on January 12. Beloved husband of Rhoma, devoted father of Laura and Robert, adored and adoring Pop of Blake and Kathryn, Allex and Amanda. A very dear man, cherished by all who knew him. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 81st Street and Madison Ave, 1PM on Thursday, January 
 HAND-Edward Sayer, Sr.. An attorney and Scarsdale civic leader died December 30, 1999 after a brief illness. He was ninety-two. Husband of the late Faith Seiple Hand. Mr. Hand is survived by two sons Edward S. Hand, Jr. of Wellesley, Massachusetts and Stephen B. Hand of New Orleans, Louisia
 HEISMAN-Joshua, age 67. Loving husband of the late Helene (nee Goldberg). Devoted father of Ross and Patti Heisman & Debra Heisman. Cherished grandfather of Evan and Rachel. Caring brother of Leonard and his wife Diana, Elaine and Joe Korenberg and the late Jay. Also survived by his beloved
 KAPPLER-Frank. 84. Died at home in Fearrington Village, North Carolina, January 9, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Gerry, two sons and six grandchildren. Donations in his name may be made to The Hospice of Chatham County, 200 East Street, Pittsboro, NC 27312 or to Dartmouth College Alumni
 KRUMHOLZ - Henry. Passed away on January 8, 2000. Beloved husband of Diane. Devoted and loving father of Gloria Young and Dr. David Krumholz. Loving father-in-law to Adrienne Krumholz and Michael Young. Proud grandfather of Evan, Douglas, Richard and Melissa. Dear brother of Benjamin Krumho
 LIPETZ-Joshua Mark. The Marsha Stern Talmudical AcademyYeshiva University High School mourns the untimely passing of Joshua Lipetz, 1997 graduate. We remember his quiet dignity, intense love of learning and devotion to family and friends. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zi
 LIVOTI-Philip A.. On January 12, 2000. Loving brother to Connie and Nina. Beloved uncle to Christina, Johnny, Patty, Terry and Charles. Great-uncle to all his loving nieces and nephews. Reposing at Provenzano-Lanza Funeral Home, 43 2nd Ave., NYC, until Saturday. 10 AM Mass at Old St. Patric
 MILBURN-Devereux, Jr.. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Trustee, Devereux Milburn, Jr., Esq. We extend our deepest condolenc
 POLLET-Benjamin. Died January 12. Beloved husband of Estelle (nee Kubrin) for 61 years. Loving father of Michael and Marian Sue and grandfather of Steven, Merryl, Erik, Alison and Jeremy. Sixty plus years as a caring, dedicated family physician to generations in the Ridgewood and Flatbush s
 SAPORTA-Herman. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the passing of a dear friend, a distinguished communal leader who was a YU Guardian and AECOM Founder. He established AECOM's Herman Saporta Fellowship in Cardiology in Memory of Rachel Saporta. We extend h
 SKOLNICK-David. Age 84, of Delray Beach, Fla., and New York on January 10, 1999. Adored husband of the late Barbara Skolnick. Beloved and admired father of Louis and Lee, father-in-law of Shelley and Jo Ann. Loving grandfather of Ethan, Seth, Elizabeth and Harry. Devoted brother of Rose Bar
 SOLOMON-Jay. Died January 9. Son of the late Anna and David Solomon. Brother of Marilyn Bernfeld and Pauline Feldman. May he rest in peace.       
 SPIVAK-Harold P. Died January 12, 1999. Devoted husband of Ruth Spivak, loving father of Steven and Barbara Spivak, father-in-law of Sandy and Howard, devoted grandfather of Lisa, Eric, Katie, Adam and Elizabeth, dear brother of Pearl Levy & Evelyn Weingold and the late Ruth, Dorothy and Mu
 STEIN-James. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, James Stein. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary       
 TAYLOR-Malcolm P.. of Darien, CT on January 11, 2000 in Darien, CT. He was founder of the TaylorReed Corporation in 1939 with college classmate Charles M.D. Reed in Mamaroneck, NY. Husband of the late Marianne Bevan Taylor. Father of Mick, Scott, Mark, Barbara and Deborah. Funeral Services 
 THOMSON-Lucien., age eighty-six of New York City, died Tuesday, January 11, 2000. Survived by his first cousins Isabel D. Thomson of Atlanta, GA and Albert D. Thomson of Cotton, GA. Harpist, composer, author and teacher of the harp in New York City since 1946. Long-time member and past Pres
 WETTLAUFER-C. Penn. January 11, 2000, died peacefully at home at the age of 64 after a short but courageous battle with cancer. A graduate of St. Mark's School, Southboro, MA., and Princeton University Class of 1958, he received an MBA from Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College 
 OAKS-James Howard. Vice President for Health Sciences at SUNY Stony Brook from 1973 to 1996, died at his home in Indianapolis on September 16, 1999. His friends and colleagues remember him with affection and profound respect. Howard gave irreplaceable leadership in creating a new institutio
 Jerzy Grotowski, the Polish director who was one of the most important and influential theatrical innovators of his time, died yesterday in Pontedera, Italy. He was 65 and lived in Italy. Mr. Grotowski died after years of fighting leukemia, said the director Andre Gregory, a friend.
 COHEN-Henry. With his passing on January 14, 1999, New York City lost a dedicated public servant and policy expert and New School University a passionate and creative educational leader. Henry Cohen served New York City from 1950 to 1968, blazing a path that opened the City's government to 
 FATT-Arthur C. 94. Of New York City and Delray Beach, Fla. Died Tuesday evening, January 12, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Barbara C., proud father of Marjorie Chester and Barbara Costikyan both of New York City, grandfather of Nancy Cedillo of Madrid, Spain, Prisci
 GOODMAN-Saul L. 97. On January 13, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Sarah, father of Jacob Eli, father-in-law of Josy, and grandfather of Rachel and Naomi. Born in Bodzanow, Poland, he came to this country in 1921. A teacher in the Jewish secular schools, he rose to Executive Director of t
 GOULD-Alan A. A respected consulting structural engineer is mourned by his colleagues. Among the many notable projects that he designed were the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, the Kearney Parcel Post Facility and many monumental buildings. His professionalism served as an example for a
 KOEPPEL-Edward G. 76. Died peacefully on January 11, 1999. Cherished husband of Laura. Beloved father of David, Jeff, Debbie & Carin. Loving brother of Arlene and Mel, Ben and Ann. Devoted stepfather of Wendy, Philip and George. Grandfather of Adam and Brian. Born and raised in Brooklyn, at
 LIANG-Leland Sung. Died on January 8th, 1999 at age 78. Dr. Liang received his doctorate from the Wharton School. He was the founder of Textile Marketing Associates and an adjunct professor of marketing at Baruch College for more than 25 years. He was an active member of the Harvard Club of
 MacAVOY-Edward T., 58, died At Cabrini Medical Center, January 13. He was born to Edward and Florence Molinell MacAvoy in Brooklyn. Edward was a manager for Michael Taub Assoc., Manhattan. Contributions to American Cancer Society or Charity of choice. For info C.H. Landers Inc. Funeral Dire
 MANOCHERIAN-Eskandar. On January 14, 1999. Beloved father of Jeffrey and Cynthia, Dr. Darel M. and Carlos Benaim and Donald and Zaza. Loving grandfather of Joshua, Daniel and Alexander Benaim, Amanda, Margo & Olivia Manocherian. Devoted brother of Amir, Fraydun and Touran and the late Manoo
 McCLUSKEY-Donald W., Lt. Col. (Retired) U.S. Army. Husband of the late Betty, father of Patricia McCluskey Shaughnessy. Grandfather of Tara and Tania Shaughnessy. Past Grand Regent and Supreme Orator of Royal Arcanum. Visiting Sunday 2-5 and 7-9PM. Religious service Sunday, 8PM, McLaughlin 
 NICHOLS-William Bullivant. Died January 13 following a stroke at his home in Basse Terre on St. Martin, French West Indies. He was 82. He is survived by his wife, Janet. Funeral arrangements are pending.       
 PROMISEL-Alvin, on January 8, 1999. Loving and devoted husband to wife, Gloria. Loving father to Penny Contente and Shelley Ryan. Loving ''Papa'' to grand daughters Robyn Contente and Hannah Rose Ryan, the joys of his life. Loving brother to sister, Diane Zimmerman and loving father-in-law 
 SEALEY-Antonio. Better known as Seventeen. Died suddenly on October 2, 1998. Age 29. Revered poet, rapper and recording artist. Star performer and urbane host of the ''Flippin' the Script: Rap Meets Poetry'' reading series at the Fez and S.O.B's, 1993-1997. Beloved son of Anna Payne Bush an
 SIEGEL-Max. On January 13, 1999 at age 90. Beloved father of Lawrence, father-in-law of Patricia, grandfather of Laura and Karen. We will miss him.       
 WHYTE-William H., Jr. With a critical eye and a lover's heart, he figured out the subtle alchemy of places and people. With evangelical zeal leavened with wit, he persuaded city fathers to redress destructive policies and redo depressing places. His books, his mesmerizing little movies, and
 WOLOSIN-Harold J. Died suddenly at his home in San Diego, Janurary 10. He is survived by his wife Dory, and children Ken, Donna and James.       
 Arthur C. Fatt, one of the founders of Grey Advertising and a former chief executive of the company, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mr. Fatt, whose main residence was in New York City, was 94 years old. He had been in failing health for nearly three years a
 Henry Cohen, an urban planner, a retired dean at the New School for Social Research and a prominent New York City official in the Wagner and Lindsay administrations, died Thursday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Dean 
 DAVIDSON-Arnold, on Januray 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Sherry, loving father of Elisa Szweda, father-in-law of Eric, adoring grandfather of Sarah, Elizabeth and Lila. Service, Sunday 1:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to the American Cance
 DEMPSEY-David Knapp. Of Rye, New York. Died January 13, 1999. He was the husband of the late Evangeline Dempsey, and father of Ian Dempsey, of New York City, the late David Kevin Dempsey, and Karen Dempsey McKelvey. Memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contribu
 FATT-Arthur C. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary       
 GREENBERG-Sidney. Dearly beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Carol Kornheiser and Dick Greenberg. Devoted brother of Madeline Margolis. Adored grandfather of Emily Katherine Kornheiser, Allison and Jennifer Greenberg. Loved and mourned by all who knew him. Graveside services Sunday,
 PATTON-Eugene J., 87, a resident of Tequesta, Florida, and formerly of Short Hills at Applewood Estates, Freehold, New Jersey, passed away on January 13, 1999. Mr. Patton was Deputy Senior Partner, Peat Marwick, Mitchell & Co. from 1965 to his retirement in 1972. A graduate of Western Reser
 SCHMIDT-J. Frederick. On January 14, 1999, of New Rochelle, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Dorothy (nee Walker), brother Joseph, niece Jane Gilligan and nephew Robert Walker. Eldest son of the late Catherine and Louis Schmidt. Beloved brother of the late Margaret, Louis Jr., John and Geor
 SCHULHOF-Rudolph B. 1912-1999. After a short illness. Devoted husband of 60 years to Hannelore Buck, father of Michael, Ronald, Thomas, and Wendy. Devoted grandfather to Mark, Amy, Dean, David, Jonathan, Lauren, Scott, Todd, Toni, and Ronnie. Born Czechoslovakia, May 13, 1912. Czech Davis C
 SIEGEL-Fred K. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend Fred K. Siegel and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 STOUT-Elizabeth Sprague. (Simonds), 92, of Hobe Sound, FL., and Prouts Neck, ME., died on January 11, 1999. Devoted wife of the late A. Varick Stout, loving mother of Elizabeth Simonds Maynard, of Chestnut Hill, MA., Daniel Simonds of Wellesley, MA., Charles Sprague Simonds, Key West, FL., 
 Robert Douglas, a stage and screen actor who made a career portraying swashbucklers and military commanders before turning to directing, died on Monday at his home in Encinitas, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Douglas, who name was originally Robert Douglas Finlayson, was born in Bletchley, E
 Theo Hios, a New York painter and teacher, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and had homes in Manhattan and Hampton Bays, N.Y. During his six-decade painting career, his style occasionally turned abstract, but he mostly hewed to expressive portr
 CLANCY-Robert J. On January 16, 1999. Retired treasurer with the Theatre Development Fund. Beloved son of Mary Courneen Clancy and the late William G. Clancy. Loving brother of Dr. William G., Jr., James F., Janet Maturi, and the late Thomas V. Clancy. Also survived by his former wife Margu
 COHEN-Henry. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with deep sorrow the death of Henry Cohen, a long-time friend and supporter. We were fortunate to benefit from his wisdom as a member of many important domestic and overseas committees. His pivotal role in the 
 DEMPSEY-David Knapp. Of Rye, New York. Died January 13, 1999. He was the husband of the late Evangeline Dempsey, and father of Ian Dempsey, of New York City, the late David Kevin Dempsey, and Karen Dempsey McKelvey. Memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contribu
 FATT-Arthur C. 94. Of New York City and Delray Beach, Fla. Died Tuesday evening, January 12, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Barbara C., proud father of Marjorie Chester and Barbara Costikyan both of New York City, grandfather of Nancy Cedillo of Madrid, Spain, Prisci
 FRYER-William S. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing January 11, 1999 of our devoted member and past president (1997) of the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York. William served on various committees over the years and has been a member of the Soc
 GIFFORD-James P. The Board of Directors, Members and Staff of the New York City Partnership note with deep sadness the passing of James P. Gifford. As Executive Vice-President of the Partnership for almost a decade, Jim played a critical role in creating the legislative and political strate
 GREENBERG-Sidney. The members of Sheltor Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our charter member Sidney Greenberg. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to Judy and the family. Joel Jacobson, President       
 HELLER-Albert. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Loving father of Phyllis and Howard Kaufman, Arleen and Irving Black, Marsha and Steven Groman. Loving grandfather of Robyn and Jeffrey Parket, Stacy and Jonathan Zauderer, Lori Kaufman, Melanie Black, Scott Black, Meredith Groman, Allison Groman. 
 HILL-George Edmond II. Died peacefully with his daughter beside him on December 18, 1998 in Falls Church, VA. Born on June 22, 1921 in Middletown, Connecticut, he was the only child of G. Albert and Katherine Hill. He attended Wesleyan University and graduated with honors in 1943. From 1947
 JARVIS-Wilbur, M.D. On January 8, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Vivian Jarvis. Father of Mady McSweeney and Kerry Nadel. Father-in-law of Eli Nadel. Grandfather of Jennifer, Daniel, Andrew and Rachel. Great grandfather of Kayla, Callie and John. Any donations in his memory should be mad
 MANOCHERIAN-Eskandar. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eskandar Manocherian, a prominent businessman and a dedicated friend to the Jewish community. Our deepest sympathies go to: his children Jeffrey and Cynthia
 MARGOLIN-Philip J. Died January 4th. He leaves two sons, Paul of Londonderry, NH, Christopher of Portola Valley, CA, daughter, Carol of Clevland, OH, four grandchildren, and sister, Evelyn Schwartz of North Wilmington, MA. Services on January 30th at The First Unitarian Church of New Bedfor
 MICHAEL-Donald J. 60, died Friday at home. Veteran of the U.S. Army. Served as a member of the Avenel Colonia First Aid's Squad; member of The New York Times Bowling League; a coach for Woodbridge Little League. He was employed as a Pressman for The New York Times the past 34 years, most re
 NICHOLS-Bill. '39 World's Fair usher, Navy man, Television Producer, Social Activist, Carribbean Ice Cream Entrepreneur. Husband of Janet. He lived brilliantly, and will be missed. The Hall Family       
 RAMCHANDANI-Atma. The family of Atma C. Ramchandani celebrates his life and deeply mourns his passing on January 10, 1999 at age 95. Beloved husband of the late Savitri and dear father of Sunny and Prem. Grandfather of Ariel and Talia. He will be long remembered for his contribution to the 
 ROBERTS-Alan K. Beloved husband of Shirlee. Adoring and adored father of Melissa and Tom, and Jeffrey and Christine. Proud grandfather of Rebecca and Kira, and step-grandfather of Ryan and Andy. Loving brother-in-law of Gloria Schuman and Sylvia Green. Dear cousin of Rose Tieger. Noted inte
 SCHMIDT-J. Frederick. On January 14, 1999, of New Rochelle, NY. Survived by his beloved wife Dorothy (nee Walker), brother Joseph, niece Jane Gilligan and nephew Robert Walker. Eldest son of the late Catherine and Louis Schmidt. Beloved brother of the late Margaret, Louis Jr., John and Geor
 SCHULHOF-Rudolph B. 1912-1999. After a short illness. Devoted husband of 60 years to Hannelore Buck, father of Michael, Ronald, Thomas, and Wendy. Devoted grandfather to Mark, Amy, Dean, David, Jonathan, Lauren, Scott, Todd, Toni, and Ronnie. Born Czechoslovakia, May 13, 1912. Czech Davis C
 SIEGEL-Fred K., 88, of Harrison, NY., and Palm Beach, FL. Died Thursday, January 14, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband for sixty years of Joan. Loving father of Kenneth and grandfather of Joseph and Eileen, father-in-law of Mary Claire, devoted brotherin-law of Ruth and Murray Scho
 SISKIND-Bernard. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Int'l records with deep sorrow the death of Bernard Siskind. Bernard was a special friend and loyal supporter of diabetes research from the very beginning. He will be missed by everyone. We extend our heartfelt condol
 SOBEL-Harold, M.D. The family of Dr. Harold Sobel deeply regrets his passing, January 12, 1999.       
 TENENBAUM-Herman. Died in Miami, FL, on January 16, 1999. He is the beloved brother of Sol, brother-in-law of Alisa, uncle of Joseph, Faith, Avner, Hannah, Tsippy, and Yaki. Born in Kobryn, Poland, he remained a lifelong supporter of Zionism and the State of Israel. Gifts in his memory may 
 CATES-Joseph. On October 10, 1998. The New York Friars Club and the Cates family deeply mourn his passing and extend an invitation to attend a memorial service on Monday, January 25 at 2pm at Director's Guild Theater, 110 West 57 Street, NYC.       
 KLEIN-Felix. 1/17/11-7/26/94 Never his like before, never his like again. Janice       
 Anybody who watched Ted Hustead roll into Wall, S.D., on a cattle truck in December 1931, his wife and 4-year-old son at his side, the family's entire stock of meager possessions piled in the back, would have needed quite a crystal ball to predict that by the time Mr. Hustead died two-third
 Thomas W. Binford, an Indianapolis businessman who was a co-founder of that city's Urban League and who helped steer the Indianapolis 500 through two crises, died on Thursday in Indianapolis. He was 74. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Mr. Binford was stricken on Wednesday at th
 David W. Belin, a lawyer for the Warren Commission, which investigated the Kennedy assassination, and for the Rockefeller Commission, which looked at Central Intelligence Agency activities, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 70 and lived in W
 Fabrizio De Andre, one of Italy's most popular singers and songwriters, died on Jan. 11 in a hospital in Milan where he was admitted in December. He was 58. The cause was cancer, according to Italian news reports. Known in Italy as the ''poet of music,'' Mr. De Andre became 
 The jazz bassist Fred Hopkins, an important figure of the new jazz in New York during the 1970's and 80's, died on Jan. 7 at the University of Chicago Hospital. He was 51 and lived in Chicago. The cause was heart disease, said his mother, Lula Hopkins. Always playing behind 
 Gayle Young, a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater who partnered such leading ballerinas as Margot Fonteyn and Cynthia Gregory, died on Jan. 8 at Cottage Hospital in Woodsville, N.H. He was 63 and lived in Haverhill, N.H. The cause was emphysema, said Darryl Dodson, his co
 Harvey Miller, a film and television comedy writer who was nominated for an Oscar for his collaboration on the 1980 movie ''Private Benjamin,'' died on Jan. 8 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 63 and had a second home in East Hampton, Long Island. The cause was heart failure, his f
 James Priest Gifford, a political strategist, spokesman and lobbyist for New York businesses and institutions, died in Manhattan on Jan. 9. He was 56 and lived on the East Side. He suffered a heart attack while on a midtown shopping trip, said Evangeline Binder, vice president of Hu
 Dr. Mario Dario Grossi, a radio physicist and engineer who developed the concept of tethered satellites as well as the hardware that made such free-flying space maneuvers possible, died Jan. 11 at Boston Medical Center in Boston. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was
 GALLOP-Robert. On January 16, 1999. Husband of the late Sally S. Gallop. Father of Barbara G. Gilbert and the late Richard C. Gallop. Grandfather of five and greatgrandfather of four. Companion of Helen Weymes. He was an inspiration to all who knew and loved him. He will be greatly missed. 
 GOULD-Alan A. Died on January 12, 1999 in Tamarac, FL, at age 84. He was an accredited civil engineer at Harwood & Gould Consulting Engineers in Manhattan. Some of his projects included The Lever House-the first high-rise all glass exterior office building in New York City. Mr. Gould also w
 GRILLO-Rev. Anthony. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former chaplain of Ozanam Hall on January 16, 1999. Reposing at Seneca Chapels, 494 Seneca Ave., Ridgewood, Monday, January 18, from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass in Immaculate Conception Center Chapel, 7200 Douglaston P
 KRUMHOLZ-Jack. The Officers and Members of the Friends of Akim, U.S.A., Palm Beach Chapter mourn the passing of our esteemed founding member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Mera and family.       
 OESTREICH-Melvyn Robert. 66, died January 16. Beloved wife, Zelda. Loving children, Liza, Michael and Susan, son-in-law, Jeff, and daughter-in-law, Stacey. Services will be held Monday, 9:30AM, ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam. OESTREICH-Melvyn. How do you say thank you for 30 
 RAIDER-Bernard. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend deepest sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 ROBERTS-Alan. His humor and good counsel will always remain with us. To our dear friend, Shirlee, and Jeff and Melissa, we extend our deepest condolences. We are heartbroken and share your grief. Jerry and Honie       
 SCHREIBER-Aaron M. Dear husband of Esther, beloved father of Joel (Judy), Simeon (Rose) and David (Dassie), cherished grandfather of Paula Lev, Jacob, Tobi Fein, Miriam Skydell, Avram, Doniel, David, Avi and Blanche and proud great-grandfather of 21 great-grandchildren. A devoted and proud 
 SIEGEL-Fred K., 88, of Harrison, NY., and Palm Beach, FL. Died Thursday, January 14, 1999 after a long illness. Beloved husband for sixty years of Joan. Loving father of Kenneth and grandfather of Joseph and Eileen, father-in-law of Mary Claire, devoted brotherin-law of Ruth and Murray Scho
 ZEREGA-Al. Beach Point Club acknowledges with sorrow the passing of Al Zerega, an employee of more than 50 years. Al was a friend to generations of club members who will miss his familiar face and wonderful stories of their own, and the club's early history. He will long be remembered as an
 WHYTE-William H. (Holly), Jr. Friends of William H. Whyte are invited to join his family in a service of thanks for his life and presence among us. Service will be at 10:30 AM, Tuesday, January 19, at the Church of the Epiphany, 1393 York Ave. at 74th St. In lieu of flowers, the family requ
 Walter H. Page, a former chairman and president of J. P. Morgan & Company, died Jan. 8 at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. He was 83. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son Mark. Mr. Page joined the company as a trainee in 1937, when it was still a privately 
 William Bentley Ball, a constitutional lawyer nationally known for his defense of religious doctrine and practice against secular encroachment, died Jan. 10 at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 82, lived in Camp Hill, Pa., and was in Florida on vacation. Mr. Ball suff
 Bennett Harrison, a leading radical economist, vocal critic of United States economic policy and the co-author of the 1983 book ''The De-Industrialization of America,'' died at home on Sunday of complications from cancer of the esophagus. He was 56 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights.  
 David Dempsey, a reviewer, biographer, novelist, columnist, fiction and magazine writer who as a Marine Corps combat correspondent during World War II covered four Pacific landings toting a rifle and a typewriter, died on Wednesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 85. A prolific auth
 Monroe W. Karmin, a reporter who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1967 for an article about links between organized crime in the United States and businesses in the Bahamas, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 69. He had had a long battle with cancer, said his wife, Mayanne.  
 ADELSOHN-Florence, nee Feldman. On January 17, 1999. Beloved wife of Yale, mother of Lawrence (Lynn) and Marc, adored grandmother of Jodi (Mrs. Gregg Ruff) and Keith, beloved sister and aunt, after a long illness. Services are today, 12 Noon, January 19, 1999, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Cha
 ALTMANN-Hans C. On January 15, 1999. Loving and devoted husband of Ruth Rogers Altmann. Beloved father of Carol Altmann Molony (husband Ray), Peter M. Altmann (wife Cathy), John R. Altmann (wife Joyce), Althony F. Altmann (wife Lisa) and stepfather of Susan C. Friedman (husband Harris) and 
 BELIN-David W. Beloved husband of Barbara. Adoring and devoted father of Jon, Jim, Joy, Tom and Laurie. Proud grandfather of Janet and step father of Lee and Jenifer. Loving brother of Daniel Belin of CA. and loving father-inlaw of Dr. Anne Coleman and Bruce Kramer. Passed away on Sunday, J
 BINDER-Harry. Former President of Jaffie Mechanical, Inc. World War II Veteran of Army Engineering Corps-European and Pacific Theatres died suddenly of a heart attack in his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. January 18, 1999. Harry is survived by his wife Nanette, his daughter Dr. Karen BinderBrynes,
 BRODSKY-Irving. Of Rye, N.Y. Passed away on January 17, 1999. He was a gentle and compassionate man who dedicated his life to helping others. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne, his son, Robert, and his wife, Karin, his precious grandchildren, Jake and Olivia, as well as caring extended fam
 COHEN-Abner L., former dentist, beloved husband of the late Sarah, dearly loved by his daughters, Barbara J. Sandberg, Marjorie Cohen, and son-in-law, Dale Sandberg. He was devoted to and much loved by his grandchildren, Lisa and Scott Sandberg. He was loved as well by his sister, Evelyn Ri
 FORMAN-Pearl. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the mother of our esteemed member and Vice President, Alan Forman, and extend to him and the bereaved family its heartfelt condolences.       
 GALLOP-Robert. On January 16, 1999. Husband of the late Sally S. Gallop. Father of Barbara G. Gilbert and the late Richard C. Gallop. Grandfather of five and greatgrandfather of four. Companion of Helen Weymes. He was an inspiration to all who knew and loved him. He will be greatly missed. 
 HARRIS-Stephen G.Z., of NY NY. Died Saturday, January 16, 1999. He was a beloved cousin to many relatives as well as a warm, devoted friend to a wide circle of friends around the country. He was predeceased by his parents, Walter and Emily Harris, and by his brother Edward. Before his retir
 RABINOWITZ-Toba Bloom, age 95, of Westport, CT, on January 17, 1999. Widow of Irving, sister of the late Clarence Bloom, loving mother of Andrew Rabinowitz and his wife Audrey of Westport, CT; adoring grandmother of Ethan Rabinowitz, Marci Chappel, and Shari Abelson. Services Tuesday 11:00 
 ROBERTS-Alan. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, Alan Roberts, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Shirlee and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President       
 ROSNER-David M. Endeared for his passionate dedication to his family and students. Admired for his youthful spirit and vigorous mind. Devoted to his wife, Lillian, children, Irene and Arnold, and son-inlaw, Raphael David. Services at Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76 St, Thursday, January 21st, 1
 SCHIFFER-Mortimer. Age 86. On December 19, 1998. A pioneer of play group psychotherapy for children for the Jewish Board of Guardians and NYC Board of Education. Survived by his wife Esther, 2 sons, Charles Schiffer, M.D., Bloomfield, MI and Paul Schiffer, Los Angeles, and 3 grandchildren. 
 SCHREIBER-Aaron M. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a cherished alumnus and revered leader of the Jewish communities of New York, Miami Beach, and Israel, whose good works on behalf of Jewish education and whose chesed activities were widely respected. He nurtured a magni
 SLEPIAN-Irving. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our Board member and Men's Club President, Irving Slepian. We extend profound condolences to his wife, Frances. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapi
 VAN DE MAELE-Albert C. The Partners of Guggenheim Brothers deeply mourn the loss of our devoted friend and former Partner who passed away in Miami Beach, Florida on Sunday, January 17th after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Albert possessed unique leadership qualities as an executive
 ZEREGA-Al. Beach Point Club acknowledges with sorrow the passing of Al Zerega, an employee of more than fifty years. Al was a friend to generations of club members who will miss his familiar face and wonderful stories of their own, and the club's early history. He will long be remembered as
 WHYTE-William H. (Holly), Jr. Friends of William H. Whyte are invited to join his family in a service of thanks for his life and presence among us. Service will be at 10:30 AM, Tuesday, January 19, at the Church of the Epiphany, 1393 York Ave. at 74th St. In lieu of flowers, the family requ
 W. Page Keeton, a leading expert on tort law who as longtime dean at the University of Texas Law School brought the school to national prominence, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Austin. He was 89. As dean from 1949 to 1974, he presided over the school's growth in size and stature. A
 ALTMANN-Hans C. On January 15, 1999. Loving and devoted husband of Ruth Rogers Altmann. Beloved father of Carol Altmann Molony (husband Ray), Peter M. Altmann (wife Cathy), John R. Altmann (wife Joyce), Anthony F. Altmann (wife Lisa) and stepfather of Susan C. Friedman (husband Harris) and 
 ARANOFF-Harry. Age 91, on January 19, 1999. Esteemed husband of Freda Appleman Aranoff, beloved father of Dr. Shera Aranoff Tuchman, Dr. Gaya Aranoff Bernstein and Dr. Jonathan Aranoff, exceptional father-in-law of Dr. Alan Tuchman, Dr. Lewis Bernstein and Susana Krausz Aranoff, loving gran
 BELIN-David W. A rare and tireless Jewish leader, he devoted himself to the vision of Isaiah to make the house of Israel a house of prayer for all people. We were privileged to have worked with him in making that vision a reality. We mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to hi
 BITTELMAN-Arthur. In his 94th year. In Miami. On January 17, 1999. He will be missed by all who knew him for his concern for others, his generosity and wisdom. Husband of the recently deceased Gertrude Bittelman, beloved father of Rheva and Stuart Bittelman, grandfather of Laura and Eric, g
 BORNER-Walter H. of Saugerties, NY on January 17, in his 89th year. Survived by Ann (Schirmer), wife of 61 years, sons Craig of San Clemente, CA, and Steven of Bedford, NY and his wife Candy and grandsons Andrew of Hoboken and Brooke of Bedford. Service at Blue Mt. Dutch Reformed Church, Sa
 BRODSKY-Irving. Of Rye, N.Y. Passed away on January 17, 1999. He was a gentle and compassionate man who dedicated his life to helping others. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne, his son, Robert, and his wife, Karin, his precious grandchildren, Jake and Olivia, as well as caring extended fam
 DUFFY-John J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John J. Duffy, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 ENGELBRECHT - Frederick F. (Fred). At age 91. Retired New York Times Pressman, World War II veteran, beloved uncle of Mary and Richard Ware and numerous other nieces & nephews. Inquiries to Bruno V. Caracciolo, Licensed Funeral Director. Reposing at Franklin Funeral Home, 42 New Hyde Park R
 FRAZER-William L. Died on January 19, 1999 at home after a long bout with lung disease. Born in Brooklyn on March 11, 1917 to Charles and Lela Frazer, Mr. Frazer grew up in Brooklyn Heights. After graduating from Pratt Institute in 1938, he went on to a very successful career as an artist, 
 GEPHART-William A. On January 17, 1999, age 85, at Fieldston Lodge, Riverdale, of respiratory failure after a two month illness. Son of Alva R. and Pearl H. Gephart. Professional baritone and teacher of singing, he was Secretary of the American Academy of Teachers of Singing and past Presid
 HARDISSON - Joseph L. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. Joe served at Lutheran Medical Center as Director of Food and Nutrition services for more than twenty years. He was a good man who encouraged his staff to provide a high quality service for our patients. We will all miss him. We of
 HARRISON-Bennett. The sudden loss of Bennett Harrison, Professor of Urban Political Economy at the Robert J. Milano Graduate School of New School University, is mourned by his many friends and colleagues. A generous human being with extraordinary powers to illuminate our world has been take
 HUFFINE-Herbert Taylor, Age 77. On January 18, of Manchester, Vermont and formerly of Morristown, N.J. Beloved husband of Julianne, Loving father of Phillip, Peter and Melissa, predeceased by a son Michael. Grandfather of Rachel, Taylor, Savanna and Caitlin. He was much loved and will be gr
 JACKSON-James A., 62, of Charlotte, Vermont and formerly of Stowe, passed away on January 17, 1999 after a brief illness. Jim was born in Providence, Rhode Island on December 10, 1936, the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Fielding Jackson of Ridgefield, Connecticut. He was a graduate of Proctor
 KRING-Walter Donald, The Reverend. Died at age 82 at his home in Brookfield, MA on Friday, January 15, 1999. Dr. Kring was Minister Emeritus of All Souls Church in New York City where he served as Senior Minister from 1955 to 1978. A memorial service will be held at All Souls, 1157 Lexingto
 MANOCHERIAN-Eskander. The Officers and Board of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev mourn the passing of a distinguished member of the AABGU family, Eskander Manocherian. The Tuba and Yahya Manocherian Endowed Scholarship Fund he established at Ben-Gurion University 
 McLOUGHLIN-Rev. William J., The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Margaret Mary's Church, 215 Exeter Street, Brooklyn, on January 18th. Reposing at Marine Park Funeral Home, 30-24 Quentin Road, Brooklyn, Tuesday, January 19th, from 7 to 10 P.M., and Wedne
 MITCHELL-Morris, on January 18, in his 92nd year. Beloved husband of Florence R. Mitchell. Father of Jonathan (Sandra) of Dewey, AZ, and Sarah Anthony (Telly) of NYC. Grandfather of Barbara Mitchell, David Anthony and Jessica Anthony. Step-grandfather of Karen Harris and Deana Douglas. Serv
 PECKERMAN-Edward R. Jr., Washington, CT, 93, died Tuesday morning at Rose Haven in Litchfield after a short illness. Mr. Peckerman was born in Boston, June 3, 1905. His family moved to New York in 1914. He graduated from Horace Mann School, where he later served as chairman of the board of 
 SAMUELS-Harold David, 89, of Annadale, died peacefully at home on January 16th, 1999. An artist and a retired advertising executive, he was born in Hastings, Nebraska, and made his way in his teen years to the West Coast, where he became a courtroom sketch artist for newspapers, covering se
 SCHREIBER-Aaron M. It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of Aaron M. Schreiber, beloved father of our esteemed Board Member and former Executive Committee Chairman, Simeon Schreiber and father-inlaw of our dedicated Board Member, Rose Schreiber. Mr. Schreiber's benevolent commitm
 SCHULHOF-Rudolph B. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Rudolph B. Schulhof. Ruda and his wife, Hannelore, have been invaluable supporters of the Guggenheim Museum and helped nuture the institution over several decades. Their shar
 SCHUMAN-Ronald. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Ronald Schuman, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Andrea and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek, Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 SELZER-Benson. We will always remember Benson's sense of humor, great wit and amazing artistic talent. He will be truly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Liz, John, Jeffrey, Andrea, Benjamin and family. Michael, Giselle, David, Ali and Adam       
 SOLOVITZ-Samuel L., age 71, passed away on Tuesday, January 12, 1999. Mr. Solovitz moved to Houston in 1984, after retiring from the New York Times Newspaper after 40 years. Surviving him are, niece, Brenda Polunsky and Husband Richard; nephew, Lewis Solovitz and wife Mona; great-nieces, An
 TANNENWALD-Judge Theodore, Jr. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the sudden death of Judge Theodore Tannenwald, Jr., who for more than four decad
 CATES-Joseph. On October 10, 1998. The New York Friars Club and the Cates family deeply mourn his passing and extend an invitation to attend a memorial service on Monday, January 25 at 2pm at Director's Guild Theater, 110 West 57 Street, NYC.       
 BELIN-David W. We will greatly miss our friend David and his wise counsel and generous spirit. He was a class act. Condolences to Barbara and the family. The Tilles Family       
 DELYNN-Alan. On January 12. He began his lifetime career in the theater and film business in 1951, when he worked as a production assistant on ''Shane'' on location in Wyoming. In the years that followed he participated in the production of over 40 plays and films including a professional r
 DiPILLO-Vincent. The Board of Regents, Administration and staff of Long Island College Hospital (LICH) mourn the passing of Vincent DiPillo, father of our esteemed colleage Frank DiPillo, M.D., Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine and a member of the Board of Regents. To Dr. DiPi
 DONENFELD - Israel James. Composer, pianist and teacher of music, in his 82nd year, on January 19, 1999. Beloved husband of Anne; devoted father of Ken, Howard and Jane; adored grandpa of Elissa and Jon, Gil and Ron, Shalom and Romi. Funeral on Friday, January 22 at 10:45 AM, at Riverside M
 FRIEDMAN-Dr. Joseph J. Age 93, beloved husband of the late Frances, devoted father of Alan J., dear father-in-law of Diane, loving grandfather of Neil and Lisa. Shining role model as an exemplary physician in a four generation medical family, he was an inspiration of youth in retirement to 
 KOENIG-Joseph J. Dr. In deep mourning upon the loss of our beloved uncle, in his 92nd year. Ruth Eleanor Fallon Mullen, Mary Ellen Mullen and Robert Leo Woronowicz, Mark Fallon Mullen, Madeline Marie Mullen and Edward J. Lowe, Ruth Ann Mullen, Luke Francis Xavier Mullen, Matthew Ignatius Lo
 KRING-Walter Donald, The Reverend. Died at age 82 at his home in Brookfield, MA on Friday, January 15, 1999. Dr. Kring was Minister Emeritus of All Souls Church in New York City where he served as Senior Minister from 1955 to 1978. A memorial service will be held at All Souls, 1157 Lexingto
 McINTYRE-Jeremy. Age 26. Died on Wednesday, January 13th in an avalanche while back country skiing near Lake Louise in Alberta, Canada. He was an environmental engineer for Golder Engineers in Seattle, WA which has been his home for the last five years. He obtained his Master's from the Uni
 PECKERMAN-Edward R. Jr. The Horace Mann community records with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed alumnus, Edward R. Peckerman, Esq., Class of 1921. Always a warm, intelligent and caring person, he served as Vice Chair and Chair of the Horace Mann Board of Trustees from 1967 to 1970. The
 SCHULHOF-Rudolph B. The Board of Trustees and Staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend, Rudolph B. Schulhof. He will be warmly remembered for his steadfast support of American artists and his dedication to furthering the welfare a
 Sammy Solovitz, a wise-cracking, hard-living mentor to generations of copy boys at The New York Times, died on Jan. 12 in Houston. He was 71 and had lived in Texas since his retirement in 1984. He died in his apartment of natural but as yet undetermined causes, said his niece, Brend
 Ernest Schier, director of the National Critics Institute at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Schier was well equipped for his position at the Cri
 Eugene S. Pulliam, publisher of The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News, a champion of the First Amendment who signed a declaration that said Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's methods threatened press freedom and American freedom, died on Wednesday in Indianapolis. He was 84 and 
 John Frederick Nims, a poet, translator and author, died on Tuesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Nims wrote eight books of poetry, beginning in 1947 with ''The Iron Pastoral,'' in which he addressed life in Chicago. One poem, ''Pe
 BELIN-David. Central Synagogue mourns the passing of a wonderful friend. As a supporter of significant causes, David brought integrity, passion and strength to all his friends, and to the Jewish community. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi       
 CITRONBAUM-Eugene. Classical trumpet player of great beauty, succumbed to lung cancer January 19. Mourned by family-mother Lillian Mininberg Citronbaum and brother Ronald Citron-and his many friends. His musical and personal presence will be missed. Memorial service on Monday, January 25, 7
 DEVINE-Michael F. Age 86. Died Wednesday, January 20, 1999 at Allendale Nursing Home. Born in St. Johns, Newfoundland he grew up in Richfield Park before moving to Allendale 35 years ago. Mr. Devine was a CLU for Met Life, N.Y.C. for 43 years before his retirement in 1974. He was a WWII Coa
 FRIEDMAN-Dr. Joseph J. Age 93, beloved husband of the late Frances, devoted father of Alan J., dear father-in-law of Diane, loving grandfather of Neil and Lisa. Shining role model as an exemplary physician in a four generation medical family, he was an inspiration of youth in retirement to 
 KRING-The Rev. Walter D., Minister Emeritus. The Unitarian Church of all Souls, New York City. Dr. Kring served our congregation from 1955 to 1978. Educated at Occidental College and the Harvard Divinity School, the recipient of several honorary doctoral degrees, he was a U.S. Navy Chaplain
 LAZARE-Paul. On January 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Doriane. Loving father of Nicki, Nila Grutman, Sasha Grutman and the late Tony Roth. Dear grandfather of Gabriel Roth and Zachary Roth. Service Friday, 12 Noon at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. LAZARE - Paul.
 MOLYNEUX-James M., 78. Died of cardiac arrest on January 20 at Long Island Jewish Hospital. Devoted husband of the late Jeanne Molyneux. Loving brother of Sister Mary Matthew and brother-inlaw of Robert & Veronica Cartier. Loving father of Michael Molyneux and father-in-law of Lisa Matthews
 NEARY-John F., Jr. Died January 8th, 1999 in Rolla, MO, at age 91. He was a graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law School. A long time resident of Englewood, N.J., he was preceded in death by his wife, Rosalia Ingham Neary. He served in the army during World War II and the Korean War
 OGILVIE-Jonathan Kirk. The Officers and Board of Managers of the St. Andrew's Society of the State of New York wish to express their profound sorrow at the untimely death of Jonathan, youngest son of our esteemed member, Peter Preston Ogilvie, his wife Pam and their sons Timothy and Douglas
 PICKAR-Gabriel, Dr. a prominent physician and leader of the medical community of central New Jersey, died Tuesday, January 19, 1999 at age 85 after a brief illness. Dr. Pickar began the practice of internal medicine in Highland Park, N.J. in August 1946 and continued until his retirement in
 SCHEINKMAN-Edward. May 6, 1930-January 16, 1999. Eddie was a loving man and a learned Jew who will be missed by all who knew him. Devoted father of Mindy Leventhal and Joseph Scheinkman. It was an honor to know him. Dr. George and Nina Miner       
 STELMAN-Marvin. The Board of Directors of Circle Lodge/Camp Kinder Ring mourns the passing of its former general manager and extends condolences to his family. Eric Lange, Chairman Board of Directors Bernard Tabachnik, General Mgr.       
 TONNE-Dr. Herbert A. The NYU School of Education community wishes to express its sense of loss at the passing of a friend and colleague, Professor Emeritus Herbert A. Tonne, a nationally recognized leader in business education. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife, Dr. Elizabeth V. Tonn
 TREY-Charles, M.D. The Board of Directors of the American Liver Foundation mourn the loss of one of our founders. Charles Trey was a rare individual, a leader in the science of liver disease and the treatment of tens of thousands of patients. He was instrumental in building the American Liv
 Theodore Tannenwald Jr., a senior judge on the United States Tax Court in Washington, a foreign-aid adviser to three Democratic Presidents and a governor of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Manhattan for the last 40 years, died on Sunday at Georgetown University Hospital
 Dr. Charles Gordon Zubrod, a retired oncologist at the National Institutes of Health who furthered the use of chemotherapy to treat cancer, died on Tuesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. Zubrod's medical career included 20 year
 Edward T. Parrack, an advertising executive who supervised some of the best-known campaigns in the early years of television, died Jan. 13 at his home in Oakland in western Pennsylvania. He was 84. As an account executive of Ketchum MacLeod & Grove, an international advertising and 
 Jules W. Lederer, the founder of Budget Rent-a-Car and former husband of Ann Landers, the popular syndicated newspaper advice columnist, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home near London. He was 81. Born in Detroit, Mr. Lederer dropped out of school in the ninth grade to suppo
 BATTEN-William M. The Board of Directors of The New York Stock Exchange, Inc., wish to express their deep sorrow on the passing of their dear friend and esteemed colleague, William M. (Mil) Batten, Chairman of The Exchange from 1976 to 1984. His dedication and committment to The Exchange an
 BIRCH-Chester, a former Briarcliff Manor, NY, resident, died on January 17, 1999, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, at the age of 86. An advertising executive, Mr. Birch became President of Dancer, Fitzgerald & Sample, Inc. in the early 1950's. He is survived by a son, Bruce Birch of Blacksbu
 CARELLI-Gabor. The Feszek Klub of New York mourns the passing of its long time President, Gabor Carelli who led our club with enthusiasm, energy and devotion. His spirited leadership made The Feszek Klub the cultural home of the Hungarian Community of New York. He was esteemed and beloved b
 FRIED-William. Died Friday, January 22, 1999, at age 87. He built a successful accounting business, generously supported the Jewish community. Willie is succeeded by his wife, Norma, sons Donald and Howard, stepdaughters Barbara and Honey, and five grandchildren. Funeral service will be thi
 GOULD-Joseph L. died on January 21, 1999 at age 95. Mr. Gould was born in London, England and came to this country in 1910. He practiced law until he was 94 years old. He is the beloved father of June B. Naiburg and Arnold J. Gould, and the cherished grandfather of Jennifer and Marnie Naibu
 GRUEN-Kurt H. The family and friends mourn his passing on Thursday, Jan. 21. Born in Vienna, Austria, a U.S. Army veteran of World War II, he became a Certified Public Accountant servicing many clients and friends. Survived by his companion, Hanna Broz, nieces Yvonne Zaros, Susan Decker, Ju
 JACOBS-Murray. Of Forest Hills, N.Y., and Princeton, NJ. Executive Officer of Celebration Trading, Inc., passed away peacefully at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, on January 22nd, leaving his beloved wife Eleanor, his devoted daughter Arlene, and son-in-law Henry Opatut, loving grandchil
 LAZARE-Paul. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Bandi and Susanne Gal Julie Gal       
 LEVINE-Bernard. Survived by his wife Dorothy, son David, daughter Edan, son-in-law Scott Segal, brother Arthur, grandfather of Courtney and Jake. Services Sunday, January 24, 2:15 at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street, Manhattan       
 SCHWARTZ-Charles. In his 80th year. After a courageous but brief battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Henrietta. Loving father of Carol and Ira Wallis and Steven and Claudia Schwartz. Loving step-father of Amy Tarcher and Burt and Ann Tarcher. Adored grandfather of Ben and Jason Wallis, J
 SLOTE-Arthur D. Of Stamford, Ct. Died on January 21, 1999 in Tucson, Az. He is mourned by his wife Ann Kleban Slote, his children James, Elizabeth and Nancy, his sons-in-law Ejlat Feuer and Michael Danko Slote and his six grandchildren. Services private. Contributions to the ACLU.       
 SULLIVAN-Hon. Eugene J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Honorable Eugene J. Sullivan, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Histor
 It was one of the great cliffhangers of the 20th century, one that held a nation in white-knuckled thrall for more than a week in 1925 as the world wondered whether a supply of life-saving serum would make it to icebound Nome, Alaska, in time to save the town's 1,429 residents from a raging
 Jay Pritzker, whose hunch in the 1950's that America's restless business executives would flock to hotels near airports prompted him to build the Hyatt hotel chain, died yesterday  of cardiac arrest at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Pritzker, who had a history of heart troub
 BATTEN-William M. The Board of Directors of The New York Stock Exchange, Inc., wish to express their deep sorrow on the passing of their dear friend and esteemed colleague, William M. (Mil) Batten, Chairman of The Exchange from 1976 to 1984. His dedication and committment to The Exchange an
 BERENSON-Robert K. Beloved husband of Marion; loving father of Donna and Steve; devoted father in-law of Deanna; dear brother of David; loving son of Birdie and the late Joseph. He will be sorely missed. Funeral services Monday, January 24, 1PM, Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, White Plains, NY
 BERNSTINE-Melvin, MD, died January 15, 1999 after a long and happy life. He was surrounded by a loving family and dear friends. Beloved husband of Gloria for 47 years, loving father of Melvin, Jr and Jack. Dear brother of Richard Bernstine, MD. He was an attending Anesthesiologist and head 
 BONAN-Seon Pierre. Real estate developer and philanthropist, best known for the ground-breaking urban renewal project, Charles River Park in Boston, died Saturday in Palm Beach, FL, of complications from a brain injury. He was 82 and maintained residences in Palm Beach, Wilton, CT, and New 
 BRAGALINE-Edward A. Age 92. At the DeWitt Nursing Home, Monday, January 18, from cardiopulmonary-arrest. Until his retirement, Mr. Bragaline was the owner/director of the firm Kent-Bragaline Inc., a supplier of decorative fabrics to the home furnishing industry. He is survived by his dear s
 CARELLI-Gabor. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Gabor Carelli, a stalwart member of our company from 1951 to 1974. During his long career with the Met he sang more than 1,000 performances of 56 roles, making an invaluable contribution to our company. We extend our deepest sympathy
 CHALLIS-Mark. Unparalleled in your qualities as a professional, unsurpassed as a person, Mark, you will be greatly missed. Our condolences to the entire Challis family. Robert Freedman, Eugene DeGidio, Mitchell Berg, Debbie Garrett and the entire staff of Maxwell-Kates CHALLIS-Mark.
 CITRONBAUM-Eugene. Classical trumpet player of great beauty, succumbed to lung cancer January 19. Mourned by family-mother Lillian Mininberg Citronbaum and brother Ronald Citron-and his many friends. His musical and personal presence will be missed. Memorial service on Monday, January 25, 7
 GREINER-William R. (Botany Bill), 87, died January 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Ina (nee Blanchette) Greiner for 34 years. Loving brother of Emma Greiner. He is survived by many friends and students of botany and the world of nature. His gentle and sharing manner will not be forgotten. A pr
 GRUEN-Kurt H. The family and friends mourn his passing on Thursday, Jan. 21. Born in Vienna, Austria, a U.S. Army veteran of World War II, he became a Certified Public Accountant servicing many clients and friends. Survived by his companion, Hanna Broz, nieces Yvonne Zaros, Susan Decker, Ju
 ISAACS-Gilbert, 82. Of Port Washington, NY died Wednesday, January 20, 1999. Beloved husband of Elvira. Loving father of Renee Weinberg of Roslyn, NY and Kim Seltzer of Montclair, NJ. Cherished grandfather of four grandchildren, Joanna, Alexa, Henry and Hayley. Dear brother of Gerard Isaacs
 JACOBS-Murray. Of Forest Hills, N.Y., and Princeton, NJ. Executive Officer of Celebration Trading, Inc., passed away peacefully at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, on January 22nd, leaving his beloved wife Eleanor, his devoted daughter Arlene, and son-in-law Henry Opatut, loving grandchil
 KLASS-Sholom, Rabbi. In our generation, he, together with Rabbi J. B. Soloveichik and Rabbi P. Teitz were the giants in public dissemination of Torah. Tanchumim to Klass Greenwald Mauer families. E. Magnus Oppenheim and Family       
 KORN-Manny. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Linda Yehudit Korn, Shulamis and Chona Larkin and Michelle and Robert Karin. Cherished grandfather. Admired and respected by many during his 50 year career in the housewares industry. Services today, 1 PM, at Sherman's Flatbush Memorial
 LEVINE-Bernard. Survived by his wife Dorothy, son David, daughter Edan, son-in-law Scott Segal, brother Arthur, grandfather of Courtney and Jake. Services Sunday, January 24, 2:15 at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street, Manhattan       
 LOWENHERZ-Alfred, died on January 21. He leaves a loving sister Lisel, son Jack and daughterin-law Lila, and grandchildren Mark and Jennifer. An expert in photography and its history, he will be missed by his many camera comrades. At his wish, there will be no services. LOWENHERZ-Al
 MANDELL-David. Dearly beloved husband of Beatrice died on January 12th, 1999 after a short illness. The family mourns the loss of a cherished member. He was defined by his intellect, integrity and dedication to family and friends. David will be missed by all who knew him.       
 MAYERSON-Chester D. Beloved husband of Edith Rosoff Mayerson, of Rancho Palos Verdes, California. Loving father and grandfather. Also survived by his brother, Kenneth and sister, Barbara Perlman. Services were held in Los Angeles, California.       
 Mc CLOSKEY-Cornelius J. Beloved husband of Muriel, dear father of Suzanne McLain, Cornelia McGrath and Celeste McCloskey, and grandfather of Suzannah Smith, Matthew McGrath, James McLain, and Shane McGrath died peacefully at his home on January 20th. May he dwell in the house of the Lord fo
 MOINESTER-Isaac E. Age 86, died January 23, 1999, Sunrise, FL. A principled philosopher, writer and retired printer for The New York Times. Passionate music lover and reader. A quiet and introspective intellectual. Joins his wife Rose with God. Devoted father of Deanna, Cindy, Murray and Al
 MORSE-Forbes, 81, of Pound Ridge, New York, died on January 13, 1999. He leaves his wife, Emily Potter, a daughter, Adele Forbes and a sister, Esther. A memorial gathering will be held at The Norwalk Yacht Club, Wilson Point, CT, April 17, at 5 P.M. Donations may be made in his memory to Th
 MURPHY-John C. Age 72, of Alpharetta, GA, died January 23, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Alice; son, John F.; a brother, Harvey J. of Glen Cove, LI, and predeceased by a son, Thomas. Mr. Murphy retired in 1987 after 42 years of service with the Mobil Oil Corporation in New York City. In
 OBER-William. 94, of Manchester, CT, died Thursday, January 20. He was the husband of the late Sally (Breslau) Ober. Born in New York City, he had lived in New York until moving to Connecticut in 1997. He was a graduate of City College of New York, Class of 1926, a member of the Sigma Alpha
 SACHS-Martin. JPC mourns the loss of its beloved Board member of 35 years. He was an inspiring leader and respected professional who always conducted himself with a warmth and kindness that deeply impacted all of us that knew him. He will be forever remembered for his exemplary roles as a c
 THORPE-Dr. Robert G. Loving husband of wife June, daughters Susan and Katherine. Devoted to his profession and patients for over fifty years.       
 WILLIAMS-David R., Jr. A cofounder of Tulsa-based Williams Cos. Died January 15, 2000, in East Hampton, NY, at age 78. A graduate of Yale University, in 1944 David flew combat missions with the 357th Fighter Group of the Eighth Air Force based outside of London. In 1949, David co-founded Wi
 YANUCK-Julius. Of White Plains, NY. Died Saturday, January 22, at age 85 years. Beloved by his wife Lyn Yanuck, daughter Louise, sons Bill and Sam and four grandchildren. Services were held Sunday, January 23. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Bet Am Shalom Torah Fund would be appreciate
 CATES-Joseph. On October 10, 1998. The New York Friars Club and the Cates family deeply mourn his passing and extend an invitation to attend a memorial service on Monday, January 25 at 2pm at Director's Guild Theater, 110 West 57 Street, NYC.       
 The Rev. Walter Donald Kring, a Unitarian clergyman, author, ceramic artist and sleuth into the secrets of Herman Melville's private life, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Brookfield, Mass. He was 82. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. For 23 years, Mr. Kring 
 Buzz Kulik, a director whose made-for-television movie ''Brian's Song'' attained such popular success that it was released theatrically, died on Jan. 13 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Lorraine
 Charles Brown, the singer of the hit ''Merry Christmas Baby'' and a member of Johnny Moore and the Three Blazers, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Brown, who was 76 and lived in Oakland, was to have been inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame in March. The cause was con
 Jay Pritzker, whose hunch in the 1950's that America's restless business executives would flock to hotels near airports prompted him to build the Hyatt hotel chain, died on Saturday of cardiac arrest at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Pritzker, who had a history of heart trou
 Mark Warren, an award-winning television director, died on Jan. 11 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Beryl. Mr. Warren, who was born in Harrodsburg, Ky., began his television career in Toro
 BERBERICH-Frank J. Age 85. Formerly of Plandome, Long Island, died Saturday, January 24, 1999, at FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital. A Mass of Christian Burial will be said at 11 AM, on Wednesday, January 27, from the Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church in Pinehurst, NC, with Father Robert
 BINDER-Nathan. On January 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Lillian (Chickie). Dear brother of Ray. Cherished father of Barbara, Michael and Steven. Loving grandfather of Charles, Peter, Nancy, Amy and Zoey. Delighted greatgrandfather of Bradley and Emily, and devoted father-in-law of Alan, Nanc
 BRAGALINE-Edward A. Age 92. At the DeWitt Nursing Home, Monday, January 18, from cardiopulmonary-arrest. Until his retirement, Mr. Bragaline was the owner/director of the firm Kent-Bragaline Inc., a supplier of decorative fabrics to the home furnishing industry. He is survived by his dear s
 DUNST-Maurice, M.D. On January 24. Devoted husband of Phoebe. Beloved father of Eric and Hilary. Devoted physician and friend. He touched many lives and will be missed. DUNST - Maurice, M.D. The Brooklyn Alumni Club of PLKMSAS mourns the passing of their past president and frater, a
 JAUL-Robert. Age 75. On January 24. Beloved father of Danny, Claudia and the late Michael. Loving companion of Barbara Heitner. Also survived by his sister Felicitas. Born in Wiener Neustadt, Austria. He immigrated with his parents and sister to New York, co-founded the law practice of Jaul
 KAUFMAN-Oscar. May 21, 1909January 23, 1999. We mourn the loss of a devoted husband, beloved father of two, dearest grandfather of nine, loving great-grandfather of seven. He was a retired attorney and owner of The Columbia Law List, a generous contributor to Jewish causes and a dear friend
 LANDAUER-Walter E. Passed away peacefully on Saturday, January 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with the after-effects of a stroke. Beloved companion of Prudence Opperman, loving father of Megan Landauer, and survived by his brother, Rolf Landauer. Graduated Cooper Union School of Engine
 LEIFER-Barry H. The Partners and Employees of Schain Leifer Guralnick mourn the loss of Barry H. Leifer who passed away on January 21, 1999. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Lynn, his children Becky, David and Rachel and his entire family. Barry will be missed by us all.
 LEVENSON - Lawrence ''Larry King of Swing.'' Died January 23. Graduate of Nichols College. Owner of Plato's Retreat. Survived by his mother Renee Levenson; his sons Daniel, Michael and Harold; sister Karen; and brother-in-law Edward M. Posner; niece Michele Berman and nephew Charles Posner;
 MURPHY-John C. Age 72, of Alpharetta, GA, died January 23, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Alice; son, John F.; a brother, Harvey J. of Glen Cove, LI, and predeceased by a son, Thomas. Mr. Murphy retired in 1987 after 42 years of service with the Mobil Oil Corporation in New York City. In
 RICH-Warren. We have lost a wonderful, devoted friend and tennis partner. He spent hours every year preparing our tennis schedules. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Pat, and the entire family. The Tennis Group       
 SANDERS-Milton. Died January 22, 1999. Attorney and Supreme Court Judge, State of New York. Beloved husband of Ruth (Amsterdam). Devoted father of Elaine Brodsky, Alison Lichstrahl and father-in-law of Dr. Alan Lichstrahl. Dear broher of Fred and Louis. Cherished grandfather. Loving great-g
 SCHEINKMAN-Edward. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of its esteemed member and editor, Edward Scheinkman. He is survived by his son, Joseph and his daughter, Mindy Leventhal.       
 BURDMAN-Sylvia. Sincerest condolences to Shelley Goren, esteemed member of the Board of Governors of Friends of Yeshivat Sha'alvim, on the loss of his sister. Yeshivat Sha'alvim       
 BURGER-Charles Haines, age 70, died peacefully in his home on Hutchinson Island, FL, on January 25, 1999. Charlie previously resided in Manhasset, NY, for thirty-seven years and retired to Lord's Valley, PA, and Hutchinson Island, FL. He was a graduate of Fordham University, class of '49 an
 CARELLI-Gabor. The Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the loss of distinguished faculty member Gabor Carelli. A renowned member of our voice and vocal ensembles faculties since 1964, his intellect, energy and compassion enriched the lives of generations of students. His absence will b
 FIELDS-Ernest W. Of Morristown, New Jersey, formerly of Chatham, NJ on January 22, 1999. Husband of Maxine (Rabe) Fields. Father of Frederick of San Francisco. Step-father of Stephen Smythe of Ohio & Susan Schreiber of NJ. Brother of Ronsia of Cupertino, CA. Grandfather of Peter of San Fran
 FINNERAN-Gerard L. Born on August 9, 1909, died on January 23, 1999, in Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of New York City, and ''Robin HIll,'' Newtown, CT. Son of the late Honoria and Edward Finneran, and husband of the late Mary Ray Trimble. Gerard graduated from The University of Notre Dame. He w
 FREYBERG-Richard H., M.D. The Hospital for Special Surgery and its Board of Trustees deeply mourn the death of their devoted friend and colleague, Richard H. Freyberg, M.D. Dr. Freyberg served as Physician-In-Chief and Director of Rheumatology from 1945 to 1970, as well as on the Board of T
 GORDON-Lewis Beryl, age 68, on January 25, 1999, surrounded by family in his New York apartment. Beloved and dearest husband of Susan, loving father of Jonathan, Peter, Barbara, and Justin. Proud grandfather of Joshua, Jacob, Alexa, Paulina, and Perry. Uncle, cousin, brother-in-law, son-in-
 GREENLEE-Martin, (aka Morton Greenstein). On Monday, January 25 of cancer. He is survived by his mother Bessie, brother Eli, sisters Natalye Brown and Geri Lerner and sister-in-law Rita. He is deeply mourned by his beloved nieces and nephews, Gail Wade, Carol and Nick Epstein, Myra and Pete
 JAUL-Robert. The officers and members of the Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Bob Jaul. He will be remembered fondly as a scholar and a gentleman. The Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association William E. Banfield, President       
 JOHNSON-John (B.J.) 77, of Juno Beach, FL passed away Friday, January 22, 1999 at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center after a brief illness. He was born in Laona, WI and had been a resident of Juno Beach for the past 12 years, formerly of Rye Brook, NY. Prior to retirement, he was the Directo
 KESTENBAUM-Ralph. The sudden death of our father on January 21st, 1999 has removed the touchstone from our lives. His commitment to his family, his integrity and the regard in which he was held by all who knew him leave us with some measure of comfort. Deena and Itamar (Tel Aviv) Jonathan a
 LANDESCO-Frederick S. Age 81. Formerly of Larchmont, N.Y. Died January 14, 1999. He is survived by daughters, Joan Murphy of Minnetonka, MN; Lynn Landesco of Fort Lauderdale, FL; and Anne Landesco of New Rochelle, N.Y.; two grandchildren, Scott and Julie. Donations may be made to the Jewish
 LEFKOWITZ-Irwin J., born August 30, 1933 passed away Sunday, January 24, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth, loving father of Robert, Howard and Jennifer, grandfather of Andrew, Michael and Jeffrey, son of Rose Flam and brother of Stuart Lefkowitz and Marilyn Halpern. Services will be held at 10
 MAZE-Lewis Barry. 54 years. On January 22, 1999 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Loving husband of Annette Popowitz. Devoted son of Charlotte Maze and the late Samuel Maze. Dearest brother of Stephanie Warshall and brother-in-law of Frederick Warshall. Loving uncle of Daniel. Lew's goodness and gentl
 PRITZKER-Jay A. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Jay Pritzker, a devoted friend and benefactor of Jerusalem. His generous spirit will forever live on in the projects he and his family helped to bring to life, especially the Pritzker Family Children's Zoo. We extend our sincere
 SAUNDERS-Baker, 44, born September 23, 1954 in Montgomery, Alabama, died January 15, 1999. Survived by his father John Baker Saunders, his mother and stepfather Charleen and Peter Edge; his brother, Joseph H. (Katharine); his sister, Henrietta (Richard Day) Saunders and nephews and niece; R
 SHAW-Robert. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall are deeply saddened by the loss of conductor and musical statesman, Robert Shaw. In the course of a sixty-year relationship with Carnegie Hall that began in 1939, Mr. Shaw performed at the Hall more than fifty times, including hi
 WEISS-Joseph. Congregaton Ezrath Israel, the Actors' Temple deeply mourns the loss of our beloved member. We express our deepest sympathies to his wife and family. Robert Goldman, President Noach Valley, Rabbi       
 Robert Shaw, the renowned choral conductor and the elder statesman and great spirit of American musical performance, died yesterday at a hospital in New Haven, where he had been visiting one of his sons at Yale University. He was 82. The cause was a stroke, according to the Atlanta 
 Edward Joseph Kiernan, a retired New York City police officer who headed the city's police union and two international police organizations, died on Saturday at Castle Point Veterans Hospital near Newburgh, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Congers, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, his family
 Gabor Carelli, a Hungarian tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera between 1951 and 1974, and was on the vocal faculty of the Manhattan School of Music for 35 years, died on Friday. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Carelli was born in Budapest in 1915 and began his vocal studi
 Lord Lewin, the British seadog who is credited with engineering his country's victory over Argentina in the Falkland Islands war in 1982, died on Saturday in Woodbridge in the County of Suffolk in southeastern Britain, not far from the sea. He was 78. The cause was stomach cancer, T
 ALSCHULER-Robert. All of us at Linden Alschuler & Kaplan, Inc., record with sorrow the passing of Steven Alschuler's father. His extraordinary will to live, his dignity and courage will inspire those who knew and loved him. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family.       
 DUNST-Maurice, M.D. The members of the Catholic Medical Centers Physician Organization mourn the passing of Dr. Maurice Dunst, former vice president of the physician organization. We offer our heartfelt prayers and our deepest sympathy to the Dunst family on their great loss. Steven C. Garn
 GOLDENBERG - Regina. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member, Marvin Goldenberg and family on the passing of his beloved wife Regina. The Board of Governors, Bernard Howard, President       
 GRAY-Paul E. 92. Of Wolfeboro, N.H. died Tuesday, January 19, 1999 at Huggins Hospital in Wolfeboro. Born July 9, 1906 in Machiasport, Maine. Son of the late Lee T. and Carrie (Trafton) Gray. He was an accomplished landscape artist who began his pursuit of painting in Portsmouth, N.H. after
 LAMARQUE-Abril. The Members and Officers of the Parent Assembly of the Society of American Magicians are deeply saddened by the loss of our compeer, who died January 26, 1999. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family. Dr. Bruce J. Lish, President Albert C. Lasher, Secretary      
 LANDAUER-Walter. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with sorrow the passing of our devoted long-time member, Walter Landauer. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his companion Prudence Opperman, his daughter, Megan, brother Rolph and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark 
 NIE-Ming (Yo). We mourn his sudden passing on January 21st. Beloved husband of Sim Seto and father of sons Nicholas, Norman, Herman. Born Oct. 7, 1924 in Canton China, W.W. II survivor, came to U.S. in 1952 to fulfill dreams of family, academics, career. Artistically gifted, yet a modest, k
 PERRY-Roger. Age 70. Died at his home in Rye, NY, on January 26, 1999. He was educated in the New Rochelle public schools, at Harvard College, and Yale Law School. After his early retirement from the practice of international law in 1975, he managed real estate designed by his late father, 
 PRITZKER-Jay. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Jay Pritzker, a long time supporter of the League's agenda. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Cindy, his children, his brother, Robert, nephew, J.B., a member of our Chicago Board, and the entire family. Howard P. B
 SHAW-Robert. Yale University, The School of Music and The Institute of Sacred Music, mourn the loss of Robert Shaw, a musician of global influence, whose artistic, scholarly, and spiritual contributions to our cultural life will be deeply missed. He was a cherished friend who unselfishly sh
 STEWART-Daniel D. Landscape Architect, died on January 22, 1999, in The Burn Unit of New York Hospital, Cornell Medical Center. He was 68 years old. A Requiem Mass followed by a reception, will be held on February 1, at 6 P.M. at The Church of the Transfiguration, 1 East 29th Street, in Man
 STRAX-Selig, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our highly esteemed and beloved colleague and friend. Dr. Strax served the hospital for over 50 years and was involved in many activities in the wider medical community. He will be missed. We extend our sincere 
 WOLF-Donald D. Died Saturday January 23, 1999 in New York City. Born February 22, 1912 in Bat-Nauheim, Germany. He received a Doctor of Laws Degree from Giessen University in Hesse, Germany. He became an anti-Nazi activist in the early 1930's and, in 1933, fled to Holland under threat of de
 William Milfred Batten, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and a former chairman and chief executive of the J. C. Penney Company, died on Friday in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 89. Mr. Batten, who was often called Mil, became only the second paid chairman of the New York e
 Bryn Jones, who recorded dozens of CD's of experimental music under the name Muslimgauze, died on Jan. 14 in Manchester, England. He was 38. The cause was pneumonia derived from a rare fungal infection in his bloodstream, said Geert-Jan Hobijn, who released Mr. Jones's music on his 
 Charles Luckman, an architect and businessman who had the misfortune to design the building that replaced New York's Penn Station but who also helped to create Lever House,the landmark Park Avenue skyscraper, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 89. Though his buildings
 Jacques Lecoq, a mime, theater director and influential teacher, died on Jan. 19 at a hospital in Paris. He was 77 and lived in Paris. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his son Patrick. As a mime, Mr. Lecoq was not as well known internationally as Etienne Dec
 ARONAUER-Milton Herbert. Age 84. Died January 26th, 1999. His sister Charlotte, brother Irwin and family remember him with love.       
 EVERDING-August. The Metroplitan Opera deeply mourns the death of August Everding, who created five of our most successful and acclaimed productions. His imaginative use of the Metropolitan's great stage, backed by a superlative mastery of modern stage techniques, brought vividly to life ou
 KENNEALLY-Philip J. Of Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City. WWII Veteran and veteran actor of stage, film and television, 1934 Welter Weight Golden Glove Champion and long time member of the Actors Studio, died December 14, 1998, at Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Beverly Hills, CA after a 
 KEYSAR - Franklin. Broadway production stage manager, on January 25, 1999 of liver cancer. Born in Warren, New Hampshire January 22, 1939. Survived by his mother Bertha Keysar & three brothers, Philip, Donald, & Gary, three sisters, Phyllis, Colby-Mudgett, & Virginia Keysar. Memorial servic
 LAMARQUE-Eduardo Abril, 94. Devoted & loving husband of the late Milagros; beloved father of Martha L. Sarno & Lita M. Elvers; adoring & adored grandfather of Lauren Collins, Susan LeBlanc and Christina Sarno. He had a special fondness for his sons-in-law John E. Sarno & Walter Barton Elver
 LAZEAR-Robert Allen. Aged 75. Of West Hartford, Connecticut, and Cuttyhunk Island, Mass. Died on January 26th. ''Dean of New England Headmasters'' and ''Squire of Cuttyhunk,'' Bob Lazear lived a life devoted to education. He started his career as a history teacher at the Pomfret School in 1
 MORGAN-Fred. Beloved and devoted husband for 45 years to the love of his life, his wife Catheryne. He was the most caring and loving brother of Elaine Herta Klein, the admired uncle of Ingrid, David, Tony, Michael, Matthew and Lance. Fred is a survivor of the Holocaust and Dachau Concentrat
 MOSSE-George L. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the death of George L. Mosse, the Museum's first J.B. and Maurice C. Shapiro Senior Scholar in Residence. A pioneering Holocaust scholar and remarkable educator, his generosity as a colleague, teacher, and mentor will be dee
 PERRY-Roger. Age 70. Died at his home in Rye, NY, on January 26, 1999. He was educated in the New Rochelle public schools, at Harvard College, and Yale Law School. After his early retirement from the practice of international law in 1975, he managed real estate designed by his late father, 
 SHAW-Robert. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers joins with the entire music world in mourning the passing of our distinguished member, Robert Shaw. He was Music Director of the Atlanta Symphony for over 20 years, a major champion of American music and our country's gr
 SHIPLEY-Linwood Parks. Of Hightstown, New Jersey. Formerly of Summit, N.J. On January 26, 1999. Husband of the late Emily Shipley (nee Herzog). Father of L. Parks Shipley, Jr. of Saint Michaels, MD., Frederick H. Shipley of Ripley, W.VA., Walter V. Shipley of Summit, N.J. and Emily Shipley 
 DOLINSKY-Josh May 14, 1964-January 28, 1992. His spirit lives on in all who knew and loved him.       
 PERLBINDER-Arnold. January 28, 1994. In death as in life, we are surrounded by his love. Perlbinder Famil       
 August Everding, the German opera director and administrator who once ran the Munich and Hamburg State Opera companies and created five productions for the Metropolitan Opera, died on Wednesday in a Munich hospital. He was 70. Mr. Everding died following a long illness, officials at
 Gonzalo Torrente Ballester, a novelist who drew heavily on the myths and witchcraft lore of his native Galicia and won top literary prizes, died on Wednesday at his home in Salamanca. He was 88. The cause was a heart attack, a family member said. In 1985, he won the Governme
 Jerzy Turowicz, who skirmished with Communist censors for nearly four decades to produce a Polish Catholic weekly that became widely known as ''the only free newspaper from Berlin to Vladivostok,'' died on Wednesday in Cracow. He was 86 and had suffered a heart attack. News of Mr. T
 BERG-Copy. Of Manhattan and Bridgehampton. Age 47. On January 27, 1999. Copy was active in the Gay civil rights movement for many years. He attained his M.A. from Pratt Institute, then began his career as an artist. He was in numerous exhibitions and in 1998 the Robeson Gallery at Rutgers U
 BRAUNSTEIN-Jean. Our deepest sympathies to our beloved Trustee, Harry Braunstein, on the loss of his mother, Jean. We send our deepest condolences to the whole family. Michael R. Stoler, Pres., AFRMC International Pres., Friends of Rambam Medical Center Abraham Unger, Executive Dir.       
 EVERDING-August. The Metroplitan Opera deeply mourns the death of August Everding, who created five of our most successful and acclaimed productions. His imaginative use of the Metropolitan's great stage, backed by a superlative mastery of modern stage techniques, brought vividly to life ou
 FINNERAN-Gerard L. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Gerard L. Finneran, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 GARFIELD-Howard. Died on January 23, 1999 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Rebecca. Loving father of Arthur, Lawrence and Jeffrey. Father-inlaw of Carol, Patricia and Lynne. Grandfather of Michele, Nicole, Tracy, Lee, Jason, Rob and Adam. His gentle spirit and devoted caring wi
 GREY-Lester. On Wednesday, January 27th, of Chestnut Hill. Beloved husband of Adabelle (Gibbs). Loving father of Gilbert Maker and June Ogden, and Charles and Gail Maker. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Reid Maker. Dear brother of Isabell Appell, Eleanor Farber, and the late Bernard Goldb
 JARVIS-Wilbur, M.D. On January 8, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Vivian Jarvis. Father of Mady McSweeney and Kerry Nadel. Father-in-law of Eli Nadel. Brother of The Hon. Donald Jarvis. Grandfather of Jennifer, Daniel, Andrew and Rachel. Great grandfather of Kayla, Callie and John. Any do
 KELLY-Harry Martin. New York University's Stern School of Business mourns the passing of good friend and former Associate Dean, Harry M. Kelly at age 86 on January 27, 1999 in Florida. Joined the faculty of the then School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance in February 1947. Served as Assist
 KEYSAR - Franklin. Broadway production stage manager, on January 25, 1999 of liver cancer. Born in Warren, New Hampshire January 22, 1939. Survived by his mother Bertha Keysar & three brothers, Philip, Donald, & Gary, three sisters, Phyllis Colby-Mudgett, Patti Bartlett and Virginia Keysar.
 LaMARQUE-Abril. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Abril LaMarque. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 LEFKOWITZ-Elliot J. The Board of Directors, the faculty, and the staff of The American Musical and Dramatic Academy are deeply saddened by the loss of Board member, Elliot J. Lefkowitz. He was a beacon of wisdom, steadfast strength and support, with humor and unmatched warmth. We extend our
 MOSSE-George L. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Leo Baeck Institute are deeply saddened by the loss of our great and generous friend, George L. Mosse. We are proud to have awarded him the Leo Baeck Medal just this past November honoring his scholarship on a wide range of subjects d
 READ-Edward C.K., public relations executive and freelance writer, died of cancer this past December in NYC. He was 80. Born in Villanova, Pa., the son of Dr. Conyers Read, a professor of English History at the University of Pennsylvania, and Edith Coulson Kirk, Mr. Read graduated from Harv
 SHIPLEY-Linwood Parks. Of Hightstown, New Jersey. Formerly of Summit, N.J. On January 26, 1999. Husband of the late Emily Shipley (nee Herzog). Father of L. Parks Shipley, Jr. of Saint Michaels, MD., Frederick H. Shipley of Ripley, W.VA., Walter V. Shipley of Summit, N.J. and Emily Shipley 
 Leonard C. Lewin, whose Vietnam-era satire of a supposed secret Government study on the dangers of peace, ''Report From Iron Mountain,'' resurfaced nearly 30 years later as proof of Government conspiracies for right-wing paramilitary groups, died on Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He w
 Linwood Parks Shipley, a partner in the investment banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, died in Summit, N.J., on Tuesday. He was 93. Mr. Shipley, who was born in 1905 in Cockeysville, Md., graduated from  the University of Maryland. He began his banking career in 1927 
 BLOOMINGDALE-Lyman G.., on January 28, 1999, in Canton, MA. Beloved father of Gwen Bloomingdale, Jennifer B. Nelson, Penny B. Baker and Billie B. Logan. Loving grandfather of Andrew B. Bloomingdale, Gwendolyn R. Walker, Angus M. Walker, Mollie A. Nelson, Stephen A. Koshland, Andrew J. Logan
 FINESTONE-Everett., on January 28, 1999. Adored soulmate of Roberta. Loving, devoted father of Ronnie, Steven and Jerry. Cherished Papa of Erin, Morgan, Katarina and Dylan. Dear brother of Chester and friend to so many. Service Sunday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave
 GLANTZ-Steven W.. January 16, 1943 to January 29, 1999. Beloved husband of Dottie. Loving father of Alissa and Jason. Dear brother of Melvin. Devoted son of Lillian. Steven was a Certified Public Accountant and partner of Smallberg Sorkin & Company, LLP. Steven was a true symbol of the qual
 HORNER-Murray. 85. Of Vestal, N.Y. Formerly of New York City. On January 28, 1999. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his wife Lillian, daughters Paula Horner and Ellen Badger and brother Martin Horner. Founding member of Nathan Straus-Naphthali Lodge #       
 KEYSAR - Franklin. Broadway production stage manager, on January 25, 1999 of liver cancer. Born in Warren, New Hampshire January 22, 1939. Survived by his mother Bertha Keysar & three brothers, Philip, Donald, & Gary, three sisters, Phyllis Colby-Mudgett, Patti Bartlett and Virginia Keysar.
 TAGLIAMONTE-August. Of New York City and Richmond, Massachusetts. Died tragically in an automobile accident on January 28, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Lee Lamont; daughter, Leslie Lamont; sisters, Flora Amorello, Vivian Petretti and Mary Tagliamonte Shiller; and brother, Edmund Taglia
 Thomas C. Mann, a career diplomat and an architect of a switch to an American policy in Latin America in the 1960's that emphasized free enterprise, died last Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 87. Mr. Mann's appointment by President Johnson to a high State Department post 
 Vernon E. (Copy) Berg 3d, an artist who was one of the first military officers to challenge a discharge on the ground of homosexuality, died Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 and lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The cause was complications from AIDS,
 Dr. Richard Harold Freyberg, a leading rheumatologist who helped organize the Arthritis Foundation and build it into today's 700,000-member organization with a professional staff of 750, died Jan. 23 at his retirement home in Venice, Fla. He was 94 and formerly lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.     
 George L. Mosse, a retired University of Wisconsin historian who was an authority on European fascism and Hitler's Germany, died on Jan. 22 in his home in Madison, Wis. He was 80. Professor Mosse was selected to be the first scholar-in-residence at the Holocaust Museum in Washington
 Lewis J. Gorin Jr., a Princeton-educated, Harvard-trained lawyer who had a long, respectable and thoroughly obscure career as a business executive, gentleman farmer and amateur military historian, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 84 and all but forgotten as the man who h
 BESTERMAN-Jack. Died on January 25, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Claire. Devoted father of Catherine (Michael). Also survived by many nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. Jack was a survivor of the Holocaust leaving behind his wife and son, mother, father and several siblings. Retired
 CULLINAN-Ralph, Jr. Captain USN, Ret., age 89, died peacefully in San Antonio, Texas on January 20, 1999. He is surived by his sister, Mrs. R. Morton Adams of Bloomfield, CT and his daughter, Julia C. Ballerini of New York City. Interment will be at the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryla
 FAIRBERG-Lawrence A. Of Scottsdale, Ariz., on January 15, 1999. His sister, Henny Nathanson, and nieces, Mary and Rona, will remember him always with love. FAIRBERG-Lawrence (Larry). January 15, our childhood friend died at Mayo Clinic, AZ, of complications from hepatitis. He reside
 FINESTONE-Everett, on January 28, 1999. Adored soulmate of Roberta. Loving, devoted father of Ronnie, Steven and Jerry. Cherished Papa of Erin, Morgan, Katerina and Dylan. Dear brother of Chester and friend to so many. Service Sunday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
 KEYSAR - Franklin. Broadway production stage manager, on January 25, 1999 of liver cancer. Born in Warren, New Hampshire January 22, 1939. Survived by his mother Bertha Keysar & three brothers, Philip, Donald, & Gary, three sisters, Phyllis Colby-Mudgett, Patti Bartlett and Virginia Keysar.
 KRONBERG-Louis. 90, died January 27, 1999 at his home in New York City. Beloved husband and companion to his devoted wife Nina and loving step-father to Thomas Paris of Manhattan and Robert Paris of Rye, NY. Lou Kronberg was Founder and President of Club ABC Tours, an international leisure 
 LABENSKY-Larry. Beloved husband of Lory. Loving father of David and Rachel. Devoted son of Harry and Thelma. Dear brother of Steve. He will be sorely missed.       
 LIPPMAN-Alfred J. 98 of Highland Beach, FL. Formerly of Newark, NJ. Died Friday, January 29, 1999. A veteran of WWI and WWII and a life long active Republican. Mr. Lippman's international politics extended to Mexican-American relations. He was the founder (1971) and past president of the Un
 MENZA-John G. Of Hempstead, NY on January 28, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Antonina, daughter Claudia of Manhattan, daughter Valeria of Rome, and sister Lucia of New Jersey. Memorial donations may be made to the Sierra Club.       
 MILLER-Robert T., died January 29, 1999 at the age of 88 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was the beloved husband of the late Jenny L. Miller and devoted father of Robert, Peter and Chris. He is also survived by his seven grandchildren, Juliana, Marco, Sequoia, Andy, Maia, Sam and Ben, and his t
 PERRY-Roger. Age 70. Died at his home in Rye, NY, on January 26, 1999. He was educated in the New Rochelle public schools, at Harvard College, and Yale Law School. After his early retirement from the practice of international law in 1975, he managed real estate designed by his late father, 
 SOFFER-William I. A loving and caring husband, father, and grandfather. He touched many lives and will be greatly missed.       
 SORGE-Rod. The Harm Reduction Coalition and the activists and participants in the harm reduction community profoundly grieve the loss of a dear friend, clever thinker, and a persistent and brave voice. Setting forth on the ''heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night
 TAGLIAMONTE-August. Of New York City and Richmond, Massachusetts. Died tragically in an automobile accident on January 28, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Lee Lamont; daughter, Leslie Lamont; sisters, Flora Amorello, Vivian Petretti and Mary Tagliamonte Shiller; and brother, Edmund Taglia
 VIDOCKLER-Murray, 79. Of Boca Raton, Florida, and New York. Passed away Jan. 29, 1999. He was the husband of Ruth. Father of Stuart (Lynda Clare) Vidockler of Boston, MA., and Francine (David Krigman) Vidockler of Newton, MA. Grandfather of Eliza and Rachel. Brother of Arthur (Belle) Vidock
 Paul Metcalf, who made his mark as an experimental writer of prose, poetry and plays, died on Jan. 21  near Pittsfield, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Chester, Mass. His wife, Nancy, said Mr. Metcalf had a heart attack after buying apples at a farmers market not far from Arrowhead, th
 Dr. William E. Hunt, a retired neurosurgeon at Ohio State University who devised a widely used system for the clinical evaluation of brain aneurysms, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus. He was 77 and also had a home in Gouldsboro Point, Me. The cause was a recurrent rupture of 
