 Warren Mehrtens, 1 of only 10 jockeys to win thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown, died Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 77. Over a 12-year riding career, Mehrtens rode 614 winners and earned more than $3.5 million in purses. But no stretch of racing ever matched the five-week run he 
 Barrett G. Kreisberg, president of the Harkness Foundation for Dance and chairman of the New York State Board of Real Property Services, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kreisberg was named president of th
 Richard Elman, a novelist, poet and critic who taught for many years at the Bennington College Summer Writing Workshops in Vermont, died on Wednesday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. A resident of Stony Brook, he was 63. The cause was lung cancer, which had been di
 Bob Wilvers, a former advertising executive, died on Dec. 10 at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer, said Francine Wilvers, a former wife. Mr. Wilvers was the art director for the Carl Ally agency in the early 1960's when he developed a campai
 John George Williams, a self-taught naturalist who gained international renown as a safari guide to the bird life and other fauna of eastern and central Africa, died on Sunday at Leicester General Hospital in Leicester, England. He was 84 and lived in Rutland, Leicestershire. Mr. Wi
 Richard Allen Lester, an economist who specialized in wage and labor issues, and a dean of the faculty, emeritus, at Princeton University, died on Tuesday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 89. Professor Lester is known for his basic research in wage determination and minimum wa
 Col. Francis J. Kelly, who devised Army plans for unconventional warfare in the early 1960's, then commanded the Special Forces in Vietnam when the Green Berets were earning a formidable reputation for battlefield heroics, died on Dec. 26 at the Garden Terrace Nursing Home in Aurora, Colo. 
 Yuji Yoshimura, a master bonsai grower who taught and nurtured the classical Japanese art in the United States, died on Dec. 24 at Medway Country Manor in Medway, Mass. A resident of Norfolk, Mass., he was 76 and formerly lived in Tarrytown and Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The cause was c
 Darrell Halloran, the basketball coach at Pace University, collapsed at halftime of a game against American International College at Pace's Civic Center Gymnasium in Lower Manhattan on Saturday afternoon and was pronounced dead shortly afterward at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 47.    
 George W. Irving Jr., a food-safety expert who led a major Federal study that found most food additives to be safe but recommended limits on added salt, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon asked the Food and Drug Administration
 Howard Gilman, the chairman of the Gilman Paper Company, who was a philanthropist and a collector of photographs and other art, died on Saturday on an estate near Jacksonville, Fla. He was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan. Mr. Gilman, who had had heart trouble for some time, died o
 John Lewis Miller, who was superintendent of the Great Neck, N.Y., public schools from 1942 to 1970, died at his home in Great Neck on Dec. 22. He was 93. Mr. Miller's career in education spanned more than 30 years, and his policies in the Great Neck school system brought him nation
 Robert M. Hunt, a former chief executive of the Tribune Company  died Dec. 27 at his home in Naples, Fla., from complications of diabetes. He was 69. Mr. Hunt, who was publisher of The Daily News of New York from 1979 to 1984, had been ill for some time, his wife, Sharon Hunt, said.
 Thomas Crawford Mayers, a retired department store executive and former Mayor of Stamford, Conn., died on Dec. 20 at a nursing home in Stamford where he had lived since 1995. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Mayers was nominated by the Republican Part
 James Lees-Milne, a British architectural historian and author who played a key role in the preservation of that ornament of British life, the historic country house, died on Dec. 28 in Tetbury in the county of Gloucestershire in western England. He was 89. He had cancer, The Daily 
 Francisco Rodrigo, one of the old-time campaigners against the dictatorship of Ferdinand E. Marcos, died on Sunday after decades of unbending dissidence, a Philippine newspaper reported today. He was 83. He died of complications from pneumonia, according to The Philippine Star, for 
 John Howard Yoder, a Mennonite theologian whose writings on Christianity and politics had a major impact on contemporary Christian thinking about the church and social ethics, died on Dec. 30 at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind. He had turned 70 the day before. The ca
 Mihaly Igloi, a tyrant of a track coach who fled to the United States during the 1956 Hungarian revolution and coached some of the world's leading middle-distance runners, died on Sunday in Budapest. He was 89. His death was announced by the International Amateur Athletic Federation
 Representative Sonny Bono, whose unexpected career in Republican politics followed an equally unexpected -- and successful -- career as a singer and television star with his former wife Cher, was killed on Monday afternoon when he crashed into a tree while skiing in South Lake Tahoe, Calif.
 Dr. Thomas F. Frist Sr., who was widely regarded as the father of the modern for-profit hospital system, died at his home in Nashville on Sunday. He was 87. His venture into for-profit medicine began in the late 60's, when Dr. Frist and his son, Thomas Jr., founded the Hospital Corp
 William Russell Kelly, who as founder of Kelly Services Inc. turned temporary work into an industry -- and a way of life for many Americans -- died Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the company announced. He was 92. In 1946, when Mr. Kelly started his company -- known f
 Dean X Johnson, a composer, conductor, arranger and pianist whose choral works have been performed and recorded by more than 70 choirs around the world, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42. His sister Cathy Johnson said the cause was AIDS. Mr. Johnson was born
 Jack F. Grimm, a flamboyant West Texas wildcatter who found his share of oil in Texas and Oklahoma but had less luck searching for Sasquatch in the Pacific Northwest, the Abominable Snowman in Nepal, the Loch Ness Monster in Scotland, Noah's Ark in Turkey and the Titanic in the North Atlant
 Owen Bradley, a producer, musician and songwriter who helped establish Nashville as the creative center of country music, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nashville. He was 82. Born on a farm near Westmoreland, Tenn., Mr. Bradley played piano as a teen-ager in local roadhouses and
 Sir Michael Tippett, whose distinctive and sometimes perplexing music made him the best-known British  composer since Benjamin Britten, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 93. He became ill on a trip to Stockholm for a 12-day festival of his music, said Meirion Bowen, his
 Harold Bromley, an early aviator who repeatedly tried to make the first nonstop flight between the Pacific Coast and Japan but was foiled in his bids to become the Lindbergh of the Pacific by a series of misadventures, died on Dec. 20 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Desert, Calif. H
 Herbert Berman, a New York tax and corporate lawyer long active in civic and Jewish causes, died on Thursday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Manhattan firm Tenzer Greenblatt, of which he was the most senior active member
 Jack T. Conway, who as an official of the Johnson Administration worked to establish Head Start and several other Great Society programs, died on Tuesday morning at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. A longtime labor wor
 Richard Wesley Hamming, who discovered mathematical formulas that allow computers to correct their own errors, making possible such innovations as modems, compact disks and satellite communications, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Monterey, Calif., where he lived. He was 82. He d
 W. H. Conzen, the former chairman and chief executive of the Schering-Plough Corporation, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 84. The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter, Elizabeth Conzen Zellner. One of corporate America's most successful leaders
 Dr. David D. Clark, a nuclear physicist who developed a nuclear research tool that promises to provide more precise analyses of materials, died on Dec. 22 at his office at Cornell University. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y. The cause of death was cardiac arrhythmia, university o
 Dr. Frederic Kavaler, a physiologist whose study of the contraction of heart cells opened the way for research on ways to treat heart disease, died on Jan. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was stomach cancer, family members said.    
 Eldon W. Lyle, a noted plant pathologist of Tyler, the East Texas town known as a center of rose research, died on Dec. 28 at a Tyler nursing home. He was 89 and had lived in Tyler most of his life. Dr. Lyle earned international renown in the fight against diseases affecting the ros
 Ewart G. Abner Jr., a record business executive who was president of the Vee Jay and Motown labels, died on Dec. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 74. Mr. Abner began his career in the record business in 1948, when he worked at a pressing plant in Chicago. Two years later he and Art Sherida
 George Shaw, a quarterback who played eight professional seasons, mostly as a backup to Johnny Unitas, Charlie Conerly and Fran Tarkenton, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 64. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, his son Patrick said.      
 Herbert Grossman, a pharmaceutical industry executive who helped introduce some of the world's most widely prescribed drugs, including Valium and the Sabin polio vaccine, died of congestive heart failure in Manhattan on Dec. 29. He was 67. During his 47-year career in the pharmaceut
 Kenichi Fukui, a Japanese theoretical and physical chemist who was one of two winners of the 1981 Nobel Prize for chemistry, died on Friday in a hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 79 and lived in Kyoto. The cause was cancerous peritonitis, his family said, according to Japan Economic 
 Paul M. O'Leary, an economist who oversaw the rationing program during World War II, died Jan. 1 at the Kendal at Ithaca nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 96. Dr. O'Leary served on the faculty of Cornell University from 1924 until 1967, taking several leaves to join other economis
 The Rev. Raymond-Leopold Bruckberger, a member of the Roman Catholic Dominican Order who became chaplain general of the French Resistance in World War II and a best-selling author in the United States, died Jan. 4 in a retirement home near Fribourg, Switzerland. He was 90. Father Br
 Walter E. Diemer, who invented bubble gum and taught salesmen how to market it by blowing gooey pink bubbles, died on Thursday at a hospital near his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 93. Mr. Diemer was a fledgling accountant for the Fleer Chewing Gum Company in Philadelphia when he beg
 Ellis Rabb, one of the most versatile actors and directors in the American theater who, as the founder and artistic director of the A.P.A. theater company, brought diverse seasons of repertory theater to Broadway in the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in
 Klaus Tennstedt, a German conductor who was renowned as a Mahler interpreter, died on Sunday at his home in Kiel, Germany. He was 71. Judie Janowski, Mr. Tennstedt's manager before his retirement from  the concert stage in 1994, said the cause was throat cancer. Because he s
 Tony Lavelli, an all-America basketball player at Yale University in the 1940's and a forward with the Boston Celtics and the Knicks who was equally adept at hook shots and halftime renditions on the accordion, died last Thursday at his home in Laconia, N.H. He was 71. The cause was
 W. Harcourt Woods, an articulate and tireless advocate of tennis's international Davis Cup team competition, who for four decades served the United States Tennis Association in a range of administrative posts, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 85. Mr. Woods was 
 Wallace Justin Campbell, a founding director of CARE, the international relief and development organization, who originated the concept of the CARE package, died last Wednesday at the Solheim Lutheran Home in Los Angeles, where he had moved in November from Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87.      
 Richard Graff, an owner of Chalone Vineyards, one of California's most prestigious small wineries, and co-founder and chairman emeritus of the Chalone Wine Group, was killed on Friday when a single-engine Cessna he was flying crashed near Salinas, Calif. He was 60. Mr. Graff's plane
 Robert C. Townsend, a chairman and president of Avis Rent-a-Car who went on to write the best-selling book ''Up the Organization: How to Stop the Corporation from Stifling People and Strangling Profits,'' died on Monday while vacationing on the island of Anguilla in the West Indies. He was 
 Hisham Mubarak, a political analyst and one of Egypt's leading human-rights advocates, died on Monday night of a  heart attack. He was 35. Mr. Mubarak's death stunned Cairo's small but growing human-rights community, many of whose members he had trained and intellectually nourished.  Egypti
 Thomas J. Stanton Jr., a Jersey City banker who helped turn his hometown's waterfront from a moldering stretch of rotten piers and rusty rail yards into a sleek corporate district that came to be known as the Gold Coast, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 69. The c
 John E. Fisher, who served as chief executive of the Nationwide group of insurance companies in the 1980's and directed its national expansion, died on Tuesday at the Indian River Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and had lived in Vero Beach and Worthington, Ohio, a suburb of
 Lawrence Treat, a prolific author of mystery novels and short stories and a founder of the Mystery Writers of America, died on Jan. 7 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 94 and lived on Martha's Vineyard. During a career that spanned some 70 years, Mr. Treat wrote
 Vladimir Prelog, a Swiss chemist whose pioneering insights into the shape of complex biological molecules were honored with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1975, died on Jan. 7 in Zurich. He was 91. His death was reported on Tuesday by the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zu
 John C. Bradford, a former art director in the recording and publishing business, died on Dec. 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause of death was lung cancer, said his nephew, Bradford Guthrie. From 1970 until he 
 Junior Wells, a blues singer and harmonica player who was one of the  major players of Chicago's dynamic, funky, electric blues sound in the late 1950's and 60's and an influential figure in the Chicago blues style, died on Thursday at Weiss Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and lived
 T. Wayne Robertson, who became one of the most influential leaders in American motor sports as an executive with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., died on Wednesday during a hunting trip in Louisiana. He was 47. Mr. Robertson was one of six duck hunters killed in a boating collision with 
 Tom Gentry, a wealthy real estate developer whose fascination with powerboat racing brought him several world records, died at home in Honolulu Thursday, nearly four years after a severe crash at a world championship left him hospitalized and in a coma. He was 67. Mr. Gentry died of
 Edmund Morris, an actor, playwright and screenwriter whose drama ''The Wooden Dish'' was performed on Broadway and elsewhere,  died on Jan. 6 in Providence Hospital near his home in Seattle. He was 85. ''The Wooden Dish,'' about a Texas codger whose son and daughter-in-law try to pa
 Joseph S. Murphy, the son of a labor organizer and a champion of the working class who rose to become Chancellor of the City University of New York, died in an automobile accident near Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, yesterday. He was 64. It was not clear last night what Mr. Murphy, who had 
 Dr. Geoffrey S. Watson, a statistician who helped write a classic formula that has given economists and other researchers more confidence in their predictions, died on Jan. 3 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Dr. Watson, who lived in Princeton, N.J., was 76.       
 Jim Feeney, an ABC-TV sports producer whose three decades of work included ''Wide World of Sports'' and coverage of the Olympics, died last Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. In 1970, the fir
 Captain Jimmie Albright, a fly-fishing innovator and pioneer who guided and became friends with some of the most celebrated anglers of his time, died of cancer last Sunday in Islamorada, Fla. He was 82. Albright invented two knots indispensable to anglers, the nail knot and the Albr
 Alexander M. Selinger, an Italian-born, Czech-reared businessman who brought the sweet taste of Austria and Hungary to a generation of Middle European refugees on the Upper West Side, died on Jan. 12 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 and had operated the Eclair B
 Charles E. Claggett, the former president and chairman of the Gardner Advertising Company, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Claggett joined Gardner, a St. Louis advertising agency, as a copywriter in 1931. He stayed with Gardner for 37 years, helping to 
 Dr. Ira Progoff, a New York psychotherapist and author known for an intensive journal-writing method he developed as a way to encourage personal growth, died on Jan. 1 at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was progressive supranuclear pal
 Joseph S. Murphy, the son of a labor organizer and a champion of the working class who became Chancellor of the City University of New York, died in an automobile accident near Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Saturday. He was 64. Dr. Murphy, whose doctorate was in political science, had j
 Willis Green Jr., a nationally known advocate for people with AIDS, a professional social worker and, most recently, the executive director of the Harlem United Community AIDS Center, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 50 and lived in Rego Park, Queens.     
 Carl Perkins, the pioneering rockabilly singer, songwriter and guitarist who wrote ''Blue Suede Shoes,'' died yesterday in Jackson, Tenn., where he lived. He was 65. He died of complications related to a recent series of strokes, said a family spokesman, Albert Hall. Mr. Per
 Alan E. Cober, an innovative magazine, newspaper and book illustrator and a graphic commentator known for his visual essays on the death chamber at Sing Sing prison and on mental patients at the Willowbrook State School on Staten Island, died on Saturday while swimming in Sarasota, Fla. He 
 David (Junior) Kimbrough, a Mississippi bluesman who ran his own juke joints for more than 30 years, died on Saturday in Holly Springs, Miss., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, according to a report in The Memphis Commercial Appeal. Mr. Kimbrough playe
 Pierre Boulat, a photographer who worked for Life magazine in the 1950's and 60's, died on Jan. 11 in Nemours, France. He was 73. Mr. Boulat began his career at the Paris magazine Samedi Soir in 1945, photographing everything from the singer Edith Piaf to life in Palestine. His phot
 Zevulun Hammer, Israel's Education Minister, leader of the National Religious Party and a founder of the movement to build Jewish settlements in occupied Arab territories, died today after a long bout with cancer. He was 61. Though Mr. Hammer led his party from being a relatively li
 Harry S. Ashmore, who was executive editor of The Arkansas Gazette when he won a Pulitzer Prize for antisegregation editorials he wrote during the crisis and confrontation over admission of black students to a Little Rock high school in 1957, died on Tuesday night in the infirmary of the Va
 Larry Gilbert, a prominent golfer on the Senior PGA Tour, died of lung cancer yesterday at Samaritan Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 55. A longtime club professional in Kentucky and Tennessee, Gilbert joined the Senior Tour in 1992 and immediately became a top money-winner. He won
 Gustavo F. Lobo Jr., a leading commodities executive for 57 years, died on Dec. 28 at the Andrus Retirement Community in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Lobo, a resident of Bay Hill, Fla., was 92. Mr. Lobo became president of Olavarria & Company, a New York sugar commodities trading ho
 Jack Lord, the deadpan star of ''Hawaii Five-O'' who made ''Book him, Danno'' a fixture of American slang, died Wednesday at his home in Honolulu. He was 77 and died of congestive heart failure, said Carolyn Tanaka, a spokeswoman for Marie Lord, the actor's wife and only survivor.  
 Edward Safani, founder of one of the oldest galleries of ancient art in the United States, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. He founded the Safani Gallery, on Madison Avenue near 76th Street, in 1946. He sold ancient art from Greece, Rome, Egypt and the 
 J. Austin Lyons Jr., a former general counsel at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Jan. 8 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause of death was complications from pancreatic cancer, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Lyons joined the c
 Richard T. Kennedy, a former Army colonel and statesman who was responsible for the Government's nuclear nonproliferation policy during the final years of the cold war, died on Jan. 12 at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause of death was compl
 Strother MacMinn, who taught automotive design for 50 years at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif., and whose students went on to become leading automotive designers in the United States, Europe and Japan, was found dead on Monday at his home in Pasadena. He was 79.        
 Edmund Anton Stephan, a prominent Chicago lawyer who three decades ago shepherded a precedent-setting conversion in the governing of the University of Notre Dame, died on Jan. 16 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 86 and lived in the nearby town of Wilmette. It was as a N
 Emil Sitka, a character actor who portrayed butlers and others with such exquisite dignity and in such rarefied company it was inevitable that if he didn't get poked in the eye or bopped on the head he was sure to catch a cream pie in the kisser, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital near his home 
 John Paul Monahan 3d, a lawyer and NBC News legal analyst, died yesterday of cancer at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. The husband of Katie Couric, the NBC ''Today'' host, Mr. Monahan was 42 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Monahan, who went by the name Jay, had provided legal analysis
 Alan Gary Millstein, the affable, ever-quotable consultant to the retail and fashion industry, died Friday at New York Hospital. Mr. Millstein, who was 54, died of myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease, said Robert Wolf, a family spokesman. Mr. Millstein, who got his start in his un
 Charles Schucker, a second-generation Abstract Expressionist, died on Jan. 17 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn Heights. He was 89 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. Mr. Schucker was born in Gap, Pa., in 1908 and attended the Maryland Institute College of Art in Baltimore, gra
 Maj. Gen. Ralph Corbett Smith, a rugged Nebraskan who was decorated for bravery in World War I, commanded an infantry division in combat in the Pacific in World War II and became the oldest surviving general officer of the United States Army, died on Wednesday at his home in Palo Alto, Cali
 George T. Wendelken, who played Freckles in the original ''Our Gang'' film comedies of the 1920's, died on  Jan. 3. He was 81 and lived in Toms River, N.J. After his career as a child star, Mr. Wendelken gained prominence during World War II. He served in the Seabees, the United Sta
 John Paul Monahan 3d, a lawyer and NBC News legal analyst, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. The husband of Katie Couric, the host of NBC's ''Today'' program, Mr. Monahan was 42 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, said Erica Proto, an NBC News spo
 Ben C. Morris, a professor of fashion design at the Savannah College of Art and Design who had an earlier career as a fashion illustrator, died on Jan. 5 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. He was 67 and lived in Savannah. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the co
 Randolph Symonette, a baritone who sang at the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Jan. 1 at Willow Place, a nursing home in Windsor, N.Y. He was 88. Mr. Symonette was born in Inagua, the Bahamas, and studied voice at the New School in Manhattan. He made his New 
 Robert Friend, a poet, translator and educator, died on Jan. 12 in Jerusalem, where he lived. He was 84. Mr. Friend's first book of verse, ''Shadow on the Sun,'' was published in 1941. His work appeared in many publications, including The New Yorker, The Atlantic, Partisan Review an
 Shinichi Suzuki, whose revolutionary methods for teaching music led millions of youngsters around the world to study the violin using the ''Suzuki Method,'' died this morning at his home in Matsumoto, Japan. He was 99. Mr. Suzuki's approach to teaching music was considered groundbre
 Donald Davis, the distinguished Canadian actor who played the title role in the New York premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' died on Friday at Wellesley Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 69. He died of a lung disease, said his sister Barbara Chilcott.      
 Henry A. Loeb, financier and philanthropist, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 90. Mr. Loeb had been since its founding two decades ago the vice chairman of the Loeb Partners Corporation, a Manhattan-based investment firm whose president is Thomas L. Kempner 
 Jack Amsterdam, a manufacturer of electrical equipment and a philanthropist, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 91 and had residences in Ossining, N.Y., and Manhattan. At his death, Mr. Amsterdam was the board chairman of Leviton Manufacturing, based in Little Neck
 Sir Anthony Glyn, the free-spirited British author of a dozen books of biography, fiction and travel memoirs, died on Jan. 20 at his home in the south of France. He was 75. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Lady Glyn. He had been ill for several years. 
 Walter D. Edmonds, the author of ''Drums Along the Mohawk'' and many other historical novels set in upstate New York, died on Saturday at his home in Concord, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Edmonds was best known for his realistic representations of history as seen through the lives of ordina
 Dr. Harold C. Neu, an expert on treating infectious diseases who warned early on of the growing bacterial resistance to antibiotics, died Sunday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a brain tumor, which had been diagnosed in 1993, his family said.        
 Walter Bishop Jr., a jazz pianist who recorded with Charlie Parker, Miles Davis and others, died on Saturday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his sister, Marian Jeffries. Mr. Bishop was 
 Willy A. Fiedler, a German-born aerospace expert who was active in Nazi Germany's V-1 ramjet-powered missile program and helped design American submarine-launched missiles like the Polaris after the war, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Fiedler w
 Cameron Clark, a partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison for more than two decades, died on Jan. 15 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 53 and had homes on the Upper East Side and in Tuxedo Park, N.Y., and Seal Harbor, Maine. The cau
 Gustav S. Eyssell, a former treasurer of a Kansas City, Mo., vaudeville and movie house who rose to be president of Radio City Music Hall and later of Rockefeller Center, died on Wednesday at his home in Loudoun County, Va. He was 96. Mr. Eyssell, known as Gus, became an executive o
 Joseph L. Alioto, the two-term Mayor of San Francisco during the city's most dynamic growth in the late 1960's and early 1970's and a lawyer who earned millions of dollars with the nation's largest civil antitrust practice, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 81 and had pros
 The Rev. Samuel Austin, pastor of Brown Memorial Baptist Church of Brooklyn and a leader in his 8.5-million member denomination, the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., died last Friday in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Brooklyn. He had attended the midwinter board meeting of t
 William Wood Prince, a prominent Chicago businessman and philanthropist, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Chicago. He was 83. Mr. Wood Prince, who was born in St. Louis as William Henry Wood, was a distant cousin of Frederick H. Prince, whose Prince Trust controlled the Union Stockyar
 Ahmed D. Kafadar, an entrepreneurial engineer who led the development of the explosive triggers used in automobile air bags, died of a heart attack on Jan. 17. He was 82 years old and lived in Englewood, Colo. Mr. Kafadar earned a master's degree from the Colorado School of Mines in
 Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto picked a former prosecutor today to be the nation's new Finance Minister, a surprise choice suggesting there may be further assaults on corruption and clubbiness in Japanese financial circles. Hikaru Matsunaga, 69, who is chairman of the budget commi
 Lionel Wilson, who presided over a racial, cultural, economic and political revolution during three terms as the first black mayor of Oakland, Calif., then suffered shattering defeat when he sought another four-year term in 1990, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Oakland. He was 82. Hi
 Wilbert C. Morey, an amusement park entrepreneur who built a gaudy empire of candy-colored motels and kitschy pier-side entertainments on the Jersey Shore, died Jan. 22 in Los Angeles while awaiting a lung transplant. He was 70 and lived in Wildwood, N.J., an island south of Atlantic City t
