 Lloyd Richards, one of the most influential figures in modern American theater and a pioneering director who brought the plays of Lorraine Hansberry and August Wilson to Broadway and championed several generations of young playwrights, died on Thursday in Manhattan. It was his 87th birthday
 COHEN--Robert Marks, 78, passed away on June 29th, 2006. Cherished husband of Zipporah Cohen, devoted father of Margot Cohen, beloved brother of Michael Marks Cohen. Raised in Mt Vernon, NY he served more than four decades as a sales executive at W. Braun Company. Aficionado of cruise ships
 DRETZIN--David.The law yers and staff of Kauff McClain & McGuire LLP join his wife Joanna and daughters Rachel and Julie and their families in mourning the untimely death of David (Duff) Dretzin, our former partner, constant friend and dedicated mentor who died on June 26 from injuries sust
 GITTELSON--Stanley, M.D. Peacefully on June 29, 2006. Beloved husband to Joan (nee Derris) for 52 years. Loving father to Harry, Glenn and Lori, Anne, Madeline and Gary. Adored grandpa to Joseph, Zachary, Conner, Caroline, Morgan, Paige and Heather. Devoted brother to Dr. Arthur and Genie, 
 HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of our long time resident and friend, Sol. He and his beloved late wife Shirley were staunch supporters of our community for over 30 years. He will be greatly missed. Sedgewood Club Associates China Barrett Association 
 HUGHES--Charles. Alexander. Of New York City, died quietly on June 21, 2006 after a long illness. We mourn the passing of our witty, cultivated and gentle brother and uncle, who devoted his life to the study of the world's languages. He worked for many years as a spontaneous translator and 
 JERABEK--Charles A. Honorary Member, accomplished actor and good friend, he will be missed. The Amateur Comedy Club       
 MERINOFF--Herman I. Dear Herman, you were the light that brightened so many lives, especially ours. Sharing important times with you and Sue made them extra special for us. We will miss the glow of your smile, the warmth of your heart, the generosity of your spirit and cherish your memory e
 RICHARDS--Lloyd. The Board of Directors of The American Theatre Wing mourns the passing of our longtime board member, a ground-breaking, award-winning director, influential educator, and powerful champion of new voices in theatre. He will be missed.       
 Randy Walker, the only coach to lead Northwestern's football team to three bowl games, died Thursday night at his suburban Chicago home. He was 52. Walker died apparently of a heart attack after feeling chest pains around 10 p.m., said Mike Wolf, Northwestern's assistant athletic di
 George Page, the creator and resonant on-air voice of the award-winning public television series ''Nature,'' died Wednesday at his home in Equinunk, Pa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Roz Kay, a spokeswoman for Channel 13, the PBS station in New York where Mr. Page worked fro
 Jaap Penraat, an architect and industrial designer who saved 406 Jews in the Nazi-occupied Netherlands by forging false documents and taking them to safety, died last Sunday at his home in Catskill, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was esophageal cancer, his daughter Noëlle Penraat said. 
 ALBERT--Murray. Passed away on June 27, 2006 in Los Angeles. He was loved as a husband, father, grandfather, son and brother, and by all who knew him as a friend. His rare combination of humility, humor, and charm enriched every person whose life he touched.       
 ALEXANDER--John Winton, 88, died June 22 of congestive heart failure. Born October 6, 1917 in Atlanta, GA to Will and Mabelle Alexander. John attended the George School and Columbia College, class of '39, earning a BA in sociology and an MPH. He served in World War II as a Naval Reserve off
 BARNETT - Philip. 55, of White Plains, on June 29. Beloved son of Helen and the late Frank Barnett, husband for 28 years to Ruth, treasured father to Joseph, Andrew and Karen, and adored brother of Alan. Environmental engineer by trade, chef extraordinaire and golfer by passion. His brillia
 BRADY--John X. Sr., ''Jack'', born 1929 in Queens NY, died June 28, 2006 in Orlando FL. Resident of Smithtown, NY, La Canada, CA, S Natick, MA & Heathrow, FL. Predeceased by parents Edward and Grace, brothers Rev Fr Justin CP and Thomas. Survived by wife of 47 yrs Theresa, 5 children & 8 gr
 BULLOUGH--Vern. Vern Bullough a life long champion of civil liberties recently died. He worked for justice through his research and writing and with his associations with groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and the NAACP. He spent many years working to improve housing equal oppor
 CAHN--Herbert L. Originally of Far Rockaway, passed away quietly and unexpectedly at Montreal's Jewish General Hospital on Wednesday, June 28, 2006. Beloved and cherished husband to Pearl, and to the late Nan. Loving father and father-inlaw to Steven and Bonnie, Robert and Arlene, Roberta a
 COHEN--Dr. Jay Alpert. We are profoundly saddened by the passing, on June 29, of our lifelong friend Jay. A warm, witty, cultivated man. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. The Gaba Family       
 COHEN--Robert Marks, 78, passed away on June 29th, 2006. Cherished husband of Zipporah Cohen, devoted father of Margot Cohen, beloved brother of Michael Marks Cohen. Raised in Mt Vernon, NY he served more than four decades as a sales executive at W. Braun Company. Aficionado of cruise ships
 CURCI--Robert. Died on June 27. A lifelong Atheist, Bob rejected prayer and asked that no one pray for him. Bob often said ''I'm not afraid of dying,'' and ''My fate is based on medical science and my genes.'' New York City Atheists will miss him. Ken Bronstein, President New York City Athe
 DRETZIN--David.The law yers and staff of Kauff McClain & McGuire LLP join his wife Joanna and daughters Rachel and Julie and their families in mourning the untimely death of David (Duff) Dretzin, our former partner, constant friend and dedicated mentor who died on June 26 from injuries sust
 GITTELSON--Stanley, M.D. Peacefully on June 29, 2006. Beloved husband to Joan (nee Derris) for 52 years. Loving father to Harry, Glenn and Lori, Anne, Madeline and Gary. Adored grandpa to Joseph, Zachary, Conner, Caroline, Morgan, Paige and Heather. Devoted brother to Dr. Arthur and Genie, 
 GRUBER--Samuel. We mourn the passing of our good friend, Samuel Gruber, a heroic underground fighter during the Holocaust, a leading partisan commander who kept the torch of Jewish resistance in the struggle against the Nazi enemy, and in the effort in saving Jewish lives. He wrote the book
 HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. After a life-long friendship of 72 years, I bid a sad farewell to my dear friend, Sol. It was a great ride, but it ended too soon. Fare thee well, Sol. Gene Grant $(6$)HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. Age 90, on June 24, 2006, at his country home on China Lake, Carmel, NY
 HUGHES--Charles. Alexander. Of New York City, died quietly on June 21, 2006 after a long illness. We mourn the passing of our witty, cultivated and gentle brother and uncle, who devoted his life to the study of the world's languages. He worked for many years as a spontaneous translator and 
 HULL--J. Milfred, Beloved husband and father of wife Helen and daughters Diana Hull-Hopps and Laura Hull, died June 24, 2006. An actor - turned - attorney, he built a successful law practice in Smithtown, New York. He was an elected delegate to the 1967 NYS Constitutional Convention and ser
 KATZ--Robert, M.D. Palm Beach Gardens, Fl April 2, 2006, 83 years old. Born Vienna, Austria. Formerly of Brooklyn and Manhattan. He is survived by his second wife, Inge Gavis Katz; three sons from his first marriage to the late Marie N. Sathmary Katz, M.D., Wesley, Clifford, and Roger Katz;
 KOCH--Robert Newman Jr. 79, an executive in the fashion jewelry business and beloved husband of Elaine Koch, died Friday, at his East Orleans, Mass., home, of complications of Parkinson's disease. Mr. Koch was president of Coro, Inc., the nation's largest costume jewelry maker, before he fo
 LUBASCH--Betty. On June 30, 2006, at the age of 96. Be loved and devoted wife of Murray. Loving mother of Arlene and her husband Harry, and of Richard and his wife Lois. Cherished grandmother of Lisa, Douglas and Eric and his wife Shari, and great-grandmother of Cori.       
 MANNERS--Sydney Howard, MD. Passed away peacefully June 28, 2006 surrounded by his wife, Marie-France and his daughter Robin. Cherished by his family, adored by his friends in NY and France and the patients to whom he dedicated himself for over 45 years in Family Medicine. Proud Royal Air F
 McFADDEN--Samuel Wilton II, M.D. of Marion, MA, June 26. Husband of Nancy (Peters) McFadden, son of Daisy (Poole) McFadden of Bronx, NY and the late Samuel W. McFadden Jr. Father of Jonathan of Los Angeles, CA and U.S.N. Lt. Jesse A. McFadden and his wife Amanda and a grandson Samuel Mason 
 MERINOFF--Herman. You have touched and enriched the lives of each of us, beyond description, teaching by example that integrity, morality and true partnerships arethe cornerstones of all success. Our gratitude, sorrow and loss are as deep as our commitment to live and work in the spirit of 
 NACHT--Carl H., M.D. Outstanding person/doctor.Knowing him was a privilege. Bev Gologorsky Lieberman       
 NIVES--Ernest, 81, on June 25, 2006. Born Vienna, Austria. After seeking refuge in France with his parents in 1939, he and his mother were ultimately deported in 1942 to Auschwitz, where his mother perished. In May 1945, he was reunited with his father and his brother, Fred, then serving in
 RECTOR--Milton G.,The former President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency, died Saturday June 24th, at age 88. Milton Rector was widely recognized as a leader in the field of Criminal Justice. Prior to joining NCCD, Milton began his career as a Depu
 RICHARDS - Lloyd. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the loss of our beloved colleague and friend. Lloyd Richards was truly one of the greatest voices in the American theatre during the past 50 years. TDF was honored to have had Lloyd guide us as our Board Pre
 SANCHEZ--Fernando. On June 28, 2006. Born in Belgium in 1935, educated in Paris and worked side by side with Yves Saint Laurent at Dior. He came to New York in the 1960s and went on to achieve international acclaim as a fashion designer. Survived by his beloved cousin and business partner, 
 WUESTENHOEFER -- C., Wm. 82, passed away July 1, in Florida. His wife Patricia predeceased him. Survived by children, Susan, Pamela and William, and a host of other family and friends. Visitation Wednesday, 11 am to 1 pm, at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Interment will be private
 COHEN--Elias A. Although 54 years have passed since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few fun-fille
 Fernando Sanchez, a fashion designer who captured the naughty side of 1970's fashion with lingerie collections conceived for elegant boudoirs but often worn in public, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest stemming from complicat
 Jan Murray, a stand-up comedian who became one of television's first stars, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. He had suffered from deteriorating health for the past few months, according to his son Howard Murray. Mr. Murray belonged to a close-kn
 CARMEL--David, age 87, passed away on June 21, 2006. He will be missed dearly by those who loved him. Donations may be made to Swedish Medical Center Foundation, Seattle, WA.       
 HARRISON--Paul. 85, died on June 22, 2006 at his home in NYC. He is survived by his wife, Raquel. Service to be held on July 18, at 2 pm at Trinity Cemetery, West 153rd St.       
 HOFFMAN--Harold. Of West Palm Beach, FL passed away July, 1 2006. For information, Guttermans, Inc. 516-764-9400 $(6$)HOFFMAN--Harold. It is with great sorrow that we say goodbye to our cousin, friend and business associate of 35 plus years. Our sympathy to his wife Deena, his child
 KOCH--Robert Newman Jr. 79, an executive in the fashion jewelry business and beloved husband of Elaine Koch, died Friday, at his East Orleans, Mass., home, of complications of Parkinson's disease. Mr. Koch was president of Coro, Inc., the nation's largest costume jewelry maker, before he fo
 O'CONNOR--George E. Died at his home in Manhattan on June 24th, 2006 after a long illness. He was 89 years of age. After enlisting in the army during World War II he served in Belgium, France, Holland and Germany and advanced to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He was awarded the Silver Star
 RICHARDS--Lloyd. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of Yale School of Drama and Yale Repertory Theatre mourn the loss of our esteemed Professor Emeritus and former Dean and Artistic Director. Lloyd was a distinguished teacher, ground breaking director, producer and champion of playwrig
 ROEMER--Mark J., 87, on July 2, 2006. Beloved husband of Anne for 57 years. Loving father of Jane (Stuart Ammerman), Dina (Shaya Wexler), and Douglas. Cherished grandfather of Tehila (Jeremy Gimpel), Esti, Shmuel, Yehuda, and Molly, and adored great-grandfather of Lavi. Dear son of the late
 WHITE--Stephen Bonsal Jr. On July 2, 2006. Beloved husband of Constance O'Neil White. Fond father of William, Louise, Lawrence, Stephen and Ellen. Born May 21, 1922. Mr. White attended the Gilman School and Princeton University, where he was Phi Beta Kappa and a member of the Ivy Club. Form
 Vern Leroy Bullough, a historian of medicine and sexuality noted for chronicling the development of American nursing, died on June 21 at his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Bullough wrote prolifically about prostitution, medieval m
 Dieter Froese, an artist whose work helped define New York's downtown scene in the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in Lower Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife and creative partner, Kay Hines. Mr. Froese was one of the first video installation artist
 Herty Lewites, a contender in the race for the Nicaraguan presidency and an innovative minister of tourism under the Sandinistas, died Sunday of a heart attack in Managua. He was 66. His death was confirmed by President Enrique Bolaños. At the age of 19, Mr. Lewites joined 
 Jan Murray, a stand-up comedian who became one of television's first stars, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. His death followed a few months of deteriorating health, according to his son Howard Murray. Mr. Murray belonged to a close-knit generat
 Michael J. Parman, who became editor and then publisher of The Press Democrat, died Saturday at his home in Santa Rosa. He was 61. His death followed a 15-month battle with pancreatic cancer, the paper said. He posted an Internet journal about his fight with the disease. Mr.
 CADE--Christopher J.; a lifelong resident of Eastchester, died at his home in Bronxville on July 1, 2006 following a brief illness. He was 52 years old. Mr. Cade was born March 2, 1954 to William F. and Mary E. (Cooke) Cade, inBronxville, NY. He attended local schools and graduated from Ion
 ELMO--Kenneth D., peacefully on July 3, 2006, of Melville, NY, age 44. Beloved husband of Silvana (nee Puglia). Dearest father of Nicholas and Michael. Loving son of Robert Elmo and Barbara Onorato. Reposing at Mangano Funeral Home Inc., 1701 Deer Park Ave., Deer Park, NY, Wednesday and Thu
 GREENSTEIN -- Joseph D. Died on July 2, 2006 after a courageous two year battle with cancer. We mourn the passing of our charming, talented brother, uncle, greatuncle, cousin and good friend. His paintings, photographs and writings, and most importantly his spirit, enriched our lives.      
 HARRISON--Paul. 85, died on June 22, 2006 at his home in NYC. He is survived by his wife, Raquel. Service to be held on July 18, at 2 pm at Trinity Cemetery, West 153rd St.       
 LIPSON--Irving, died on July 2nd, in West Palm Beach, FL at the age of 95. ''Poppy'' passed away with his devoted daughter Barbara, and son Jack at his side. He leaves three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. ''Poppy'' was predeceased by his loving wife Florence. A grave side servic
 MURRAY--Jan. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Jan Murray. Jan was the consummate court jester who gave the gift of laughter. He was a master craftsman of humor who brought the Friars Club to hilarious 
 MUSIKAR--Barnett, 89, passed away peacefully on July 2nd, 2006. Beloved husband of 64 years to Syd. Devoted father of Lynn Kehr and Frank Raimondi, and Alice Musikar Hirsh and Steven Hirsh. Adored grandfather to Michael and Elyse Kehr, Jonathan and Rebecca Hirsh, Jamie, Adam and Samantha Hi
 SACKS--Leonard. Broadway & 79th will never be the same. Your wisdom and humor will always be remembered. Danny and the Koch Family $(6$)SACKS--Dr. Leonard Sanford, on July 2, 2006, in Beverly Hills, CA. Father, friend, and mentor, he made everyone feel important. Born July 8, 1925, 
 WEISS--Albert of New York City, Quogue, and Boca Raton died suddenly of a heart attack on July 1st, 2006. Albert was married to his true love Beverly Weiss and together they built a business and a family. Their marriage was a true partnership of unflagging love and dedication to each other.
 WIGLER--S. Charles. We mourn the passing of S. Charles Wigler. Devoted father, brother and Uncle. Muched loved counselor, confidant and mentor to countless students at the School of American Ballet. Charlie was born October 11, 1922 in Safed Israel. Raised in Brooklyn and a WW 11 Veteran, h
 RANGHELLI--Christopher. 43, on June 29, 2006. Beloved son of Joseph and Joan Ranghelli, brother of David and Lisa Ranghelli, brotherin-law to Esther Duran and Winton Pitcoff, and uncle of Miranda, Marcelo, and Noah. A dedicated employee at The Brooklyn Bureau of Community Services. Chris wa
 Philip Rieff, an influential sociologist, author and cultural critic who wrote well-known books on the impact of Sigmund Freud on society and on the direction of morality and Western culture, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, said 
 Heliodoro Rico, an international, national and local track and field administrator for more than a half-century, died last Thursday in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Patricia. Rico's track and field jobs were unpaid. He earned a living
 BARTONE--William Patrick, 50, died suddenly July 3, 2006. Devoted husband of Kathleen (nee Larkin). Loving father of Patricia Ann. Beloved son of Diane and Philip Bartone. Survived by his brothers Frederick and Philip, as well as many loving brothers and sisters-in-law, nieces and nephews, 
 BENSON--J. Goffe, 93, died in his home in Waccabuc, NY on June 30, 2006. His career at Union Car Buy, (now part of Dow Chemical), included serving as the president of the Linde division, and as a vice president of the corporation. Mr. Benson was an avid golfer, and traveled extensively. His
 BERMAN--Bennett. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York City, died on July 2, 2006 at his home. He was 91 years of age. He was a successful entrepreneur and a generous philanthropist. He leaves his wife, Marilyn, children Jeffrey and Helaine, and grandchildren Justin and Jordan. Funeral se
 KORNBLATT--Samuel. A man of principle and honor, his word was his bond. A devoted husband and caring father and grandfather. We express our sincere condolences to Donna, the children, the grandchildren and the Kornblatt Family. Donna, we salute you. You could not have been a more wonderful 
 SACKS--Dr. Leonard Sanford, on July 2, 2006, in Beverly Hills, CA. Father, friend and mentor, he made everyone feel important. Born July 8, 1925, to Lillian and Harry Sacks, in Newark, NJ, Leonard devoted his life to uplifting humankind. As a clinical psychologist in private practice for mo
 WASKO--Bernie. Of Eastchester, NY, died July 3, 2006. Survived by his wife Adele, son Robert, daughter-in-law Sue, daughter Margery, sonin-law Michael, grandchildren Rebecca, Samantha, David and Jonathan, and sisters Betty Halpern and Ellen Wasko. Preceded in death by his son Steven. Bernie
 WEISS--Albert. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Albert Weiss. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Dr. David M. Posner, Seni
 WERNER--Dr.Jules J., 93, of Palm Beach Gardens and Floral Park, NY, passed away on July 2 in Aventura, FL. During World War II he served as a captain in the European Theatre. He was a graduate of Cornell University School of Veterinary Medicine and owned Abby Midwood Animal Hospital in Broo
 WIGLER--S. Charles. The School of American Ballet family mourns the death of Charlie Wigler, a good and faithful friend for many years. A font of NYC information, an outspoken critic for dance and opera, the teller of thousands of ballet stories, he was the unofficial godfather to hundreds 
 F. Mark Wyatt, a career Central Intelligence Agency officer who played a significant role in the agency's first major cold war covert action, an operation to swing the Italian elections of 1948, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 86. The cause was complications of a stroke, said
 Kenneth L. Lay, the son of a Baptist preacher in rural Missouri who rose to the pinnacle of corporate America as head of Enron before becoming a symbol of corporate excess, died yesterday in Aspen, Colo. He was 64. The cause of death was coronary artery disease, a forensic pathologi
 APPLEBY--Thomas L. The past and current members of the Board of Directors and staff of the United Nations Development Corporation mourn the passing of Thomas Appleby. Tom Appleby was the Corporation's first President taking office in 1969. His vision, spirit and extraordinary leadership dur
 BACHMAN--Lewis M. Friend and colleague for over 30 years. His life was totally committed to the well-being and protection of the lives and estates of America's foremost composers and lyricists; serving as Executive Director of the Songwriters Guild of America. Our deepest sympathy to his wi
 BERMAN--Bennett. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of New York City, died on July 2, 2006 at his home. He was 91 years of age. He was a successful entrepreneur and a generous philanthropist. He leaves his wife, Marilyn, children Jeffrey and Helaine, and grandchildren Justin and Jordan. Funeral se
 FINN--Walter. Died July 3, 2006. He is survived by his wife, Gertrude, and sisters Gertrude Kahn and Ann Ross. Services July 6, Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, Hawthorne, NY.       
 FREED--Ethan Harrison, on July 3rd, 2006. Our heartfelt condolences to our treasured friends Jeffrey and Susan Freed, and the entire Freed family. In his far too short time on earth, Ethan made a lasting impact. Son, brother and friend--he was kind, polite, sensitive, smart, athletic and ju
 GATES--John W. Died Tuesday, July 4, 2006 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Frances; father of Nancy S. Gates Gerber, John W. Gates, III, and Norman Thomas Gates; grandfather of Anne, Thomas and Jenny Gerber; great grandfather of Kaitlyn, Lauren and Julia Gerber. Born in Memphis, TN,
 GLUCKSMAN--Lewis L. The entire New York University community deeply mourns the death of Lewis L. Glucksman, esteemed alumnus, admired trustee, magnificent benefactor, and cherished friend. After receiving his M.B.A. degree from NYU, he went on to fulfill the promise of his education: he had
 HELLMAN--Dr. Larry. The Mount Sinai Dermatology Department mourns the loss of Dr. Larry Hellman, who was a superb physician and dedicated teacher. He will be sorely missed by his many patients and students.       
 MASSIMI--Frederick J. Sr., age 82, a native New Yorker born in 1923 died Tuesday, July 4, 2006 at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, New York, NY. In 1943, Mr. Massimi entered the United States Army and took part in the allied invasion of Normandy. In 1957, Frederick J. Massimi, Sr. founded New
 REDO--Dr. S. Frank. On July 4, 2006. Husband to Maria (nee Lappano) for 58 years. Father to Philip and Martha. Survived by his sisters, Carmela Massaro and Louise Massian. Healer and poet. A brilliant, gentle soul who made the world a better place. Born December 28, 1920 in Brooklyn. Chief 
 SAMETH--Jack. A pioneer in television broadcasting, producer/director Jack Sameth introduced TV audiences to the things he loved most-music, great talent and the wonders of science and the human body. Mr. Sameth died Tuesday from a heart attack. He was 79. He began his career at a time when
 STEINER--Fred, died peacefully in his sleep on July 4th at the age of 86. Fred will be remembered by his family and his many friends and associates for his tireless dedication to his business, his generosity and unceasing effort in his charitable works and his love and devotion to family. H
 WATROUS--Philip, J. a financial executive, died July 1, 2006. Throughout his life he provided assistance and encouragement to countless individuals. He was a founding director of The Jericho Project, providing housing for recovering substance abusers, and was treasurer of Cornerstone Learni
 WEISS--Paul, past President and Chief Executive Officer of A.J. McNulty & Co. , Inc., one of the New York City metropolitan area's leading erectors of structural steel and pre - cast concrete, passed away on Friday, June 30th, 2006 in Boca Raton, FL. Mr. Weiss was 98 years of age. During hi
 WIENER--Gay. The entire Braka family sends their condolences and heartfelt sympathies to Mark, his daughters Jill and Marna, sons-inlaw Isaac and Michael and grandchildren. We are all heartbroken by this loss. Pauline and David Robin and Ivor Naomi and David Lynn and Benjamin       
 Pierre A. Rinfret, an economist and adviser to several presidents who in 1990 recorded the worst showing by a Republican candidate for governor in New York's history, losing resoundingly to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died on June 29 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 82 and had made his home 
 Theodore Levitt, a former professor at the Harvard Business School credited with coining the term ''globalization'' and with championing the undervalued role of marketing in defining what businesses should make and sell, died June 28 at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 81. The caus
 Thomas Appleby, the first president of the United Nations Development Corporation and a former New York City housing commissioner who focused government attention on poor neighborhoods even during the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, died on Sunday in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 82. 
 Jeffrey Wasserman, a painter who became known in New York in the 1980's for his buoyant, vividly colorful and poetically suggestive abstractions, died Sunday at his home in Millerton, N.Y. He was 59. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Anne Newburg. Mr. Wasserman was what a
 ALLISON--Harry A. The Horace Mann School deeply mourns the passing of Harry Allison 1940, a respected student, helpful colleague, beloved friend and esteemed administrator at HM for over 45 years. His unwavering loyalty and support of the school and his unparalleled commitment to doing the 
 BAKER--Charles E. Jr. On August 16, 2005, at his home, Sea Cliff, LI. A gradate of the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia Business School, he worked at Union Carbide and Marc Nichols Assocs. He loved architecture, gardening, Cole Porter, but most of all his friends, who will miss him g
 CANNON--Herbert S., 74, beloved husband and father, passed away on July 5, 2006. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Edith, and daughter Nina, both of Durham, NC.       
 GLUCKSMAN--Lewis L. Lehman Brothers and its employees mourn the loss of Lewis L. Glucksman. In his 21 years with the Firm, Mr. Glucksman served as our chief operating officer, president, co-chairman and co-chief executive officer, chairman & chief executive officer and acted as a dedicated 
 GRUBER--Robert A. On July 6 at 86 years. Devoted husband of Harriet and the late Marilyn, beloved and loving father of Gary, adored brother of the late Pearl and surviving sister Martha. Also survived by nieces Lise, Maya and Shelley, grandnephews Joshua and Charles, by Rod and Cheryl, Amy 
 HUNTER--John A., of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC and Easthampton, died on July 3, 2006. A graduate of Columbia University and Founder and CEO of Delta Resources, a computer systems integration company. His many friends and former wife Sharman will miss his incredible charm, wit and gener
 LASSER--Richard P., M.D. Loving father, grandfather, husband and companion. Renowned cardiology professor whose goodness touched and saved many lives by helping to create the cardiac stress test. He will be missed by his sons Daniel and Philip and family: Marguerite Perin Klein, companion o
 POYTA--Dr. Simon B. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Dearest brother of Janet Felsher and Henry Poyta. Very loving uncle and great-uncle. He touched many lives and he will be greatly missed. Services Friday 12 Noon at ''Parkside'' Chapels, Queens Blvd at 66th Ave, Forest Hills.       
 REDO--Frank, M.D. The Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Frank Redo, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, who served as Chief of Pediatric Surgery for over 35 years. An internationally renowned pediatric surgeon, Dr. Redo earned his medical degree from Corne
 RICHARDS - Lloyd. NYU's Tisch School of the Arts mourns the loss of our former colleague Lloyd Richards, a pioneering director, outstanding theatre educator, and champion of new playwrights. He figured importantly in the early years of our School's Department of Acting, serving as a master 
 RINFRET - Pierre. The Abramson Law Group, PLLC notes with profound sorrow the passing of our good friend, Dr. Pierre Rinfret. He was a true giant and a real American patriot. We extend our deepest condolences to his loving wife, Aida and to his children, Suzanne & Peter.       
 SAMETH--Jack. A pioneer in television broadcasting, producer/director Jack Sameth introduced TV audiences to the things he loved most-music, great talent and the wonders of science and the human body. Mr. Sameth died Tuesday from a heart attack. He was 79. He began his career at a time when
 TACKLER--Barry. On July 5, 2006. Beloved, devoted husband of Paula, loving, fabulous father of William Bradford Tackler/Juliet Tackler & Laura Tackler Balsam/ Steven Adler, dear brother of Hortense. Dentist, Endodontist, Faculty NYU Dental College, swimmer, sailor, rower, kind, patient, car
 TACKLER--Dr. Barry. God put Barry on earth to make people laugh and feel better, and called him back because heaven isn't funny anymore. He was the only dentist who could make me laugh while doing root canal on me, and the only dentist I looked forward to seeing. Our world is a sadder place
 WATROUS--Philip, J. a financial executive, died July 1, 2006. Throughout his life he provided assistance and encouragement to countless individuals. He was a founding director of The Jericho Project, providing housing for recovering substance abusers, and was treasurer of Cornerstone Learni
 CHESNEY--Richard L. 12/28/1936--07/07/1981. Remembering a life devoted to his family, his friends and the law. ''One of the finest legal minds of his generation''.       
 Ralph Ginzburg, a taboo-busting editor and publisher who helped set off the sexual revolution in the 1960's with Eros magazine and was imprisoned for sending it through the United States mail in a case decided by the Supreme Court, died yesterday in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He wa
 Anatole Shub, who used his own rich Russian background to report from Moscow, conduct research on Russian topics for the United States Information Agency and write books about the Soviet Union, died on July 2 in Washington. He was 78. The cause was a stroke followed by pneumonia, hi
 Dr. Joseph J. Schildkraut, a Harvard psychiatrist whose studies of antidepressants and their effects on brain chemistry shed light on the biochemical basis of depression and mood disorders, died on June 26 in Boston. He was 72 and a resident of nearby Chestnut Hill. His death was an
 Lewis L. Glucksman, whose fierce battle for control of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb in 1983 was a curtain-raiser for the titanic struggles of ego and will that swept Wall Street over the next decade, died Wednesday at his home near Cobh, County Cork, Ireland. He was 80. The cause was b
 Luis Barragan, 34, president and chief operating officer of 1-800-Mattress, a company founded by his father, died yesterday in a swimming accident while on vacation in Salisbury, Conn. According to state police reports, Mr. Barragan had been swimming in a lake called South Pond, nor
 FREED--Ethan. With a profound sense of grief the Camp Winadu family mourns the loss of Ethan Freed. Ethan was a model son, brother, grandson, camper, student, athlete and friend. Everyone who knew him loved and respected his ability to find peaceful solutions to all situations. Ethan truly 
 GLUCKSMAN--Lewis L. Passed away peacefully in Ireland on July 5, 2006. He was a passionate participant in all aspects of life, a wonderful friend, a loyal partner, a stalwart ally in good times and bad. Our heartfelt and most profound sympathy goes out to his wife Loretta, the source of so 
 GRUBER--Robert A. On July 6 at 86 years. Devoted husband of Harriet and the late Marilyn, beloved and loving father of Gary, adored brother of the late Pearl and surviving sister Martha. Also survived by nieces Lise, Maya and Shelley, grandnephews Joshua and Charles, by Rod and Cheryl, Amy 
 LASSER--Richard P., M.D. Loving father, grandfather, husband and companion. Renowned cardiology professor whose goodness touched and saved many lives by helping to create the cardiac stress test. He will be missed by his sons Daniel and Philip and family: Marguerite Perin Klein, companion o
 LOESEL--Daniel G. On July 6, 2006. Survived by his wife Deborah (nee Deininger) Loesel, his loving mother Dorothy McKay, sisters Susan Arnone and Cathleen Werbeck, his brother James Loesel, as well as 14 nieces and nephews. Mr. Loesel was a veteran of the Navy having served from 1967-1971. 
 PAPIER--Dr. David, 89 years old, died on July 7, 2006. Loving husband to Sarah Nevins Papier for 56 years. A great father to Lewis, Edward and Arthur Papier; devoted brother to Harold; father-in-law to Susan Voci and grandfather to Ariana and Chloe Papier. He was a gentle, kind-hearted man 
 QUEEN--Dr. Emil. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 TACKLER--Barry. On July 5, 2006. Beloved, devoted husband of Paula, loving, fabulous father of William Bradford Tackler/Juliet Tackler & Laura Tackler Balsam/ Steven Adler, dear brother of Hortense. Dentist, Endodontist, Faculty NYU Dental College, swimmer, sailor, rower, kind, patient, car
 USDAN--Morton. Age 70, passed away on July 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Pamela. Devoted father of Lynn and Rick Shapiro, Steven, and Lisa Usdan and Mark Podgainy. Cherished grandpa and poppy of Scott and Tessa Shapiro and Lila and Georgia Podgainy. Loving brother of Iris Workman and Allen. T
 Rabbi Louis Jacobs, an internationally renowned scholar of Judaism whose seemingly clear path to the post of chief rabbi of the British Commonwealth was blocked by the Orthodox establishment more than 40 years ago, died on July 1 in London. He was 85. The cause was cancer, according
 BARRETT--Arthur L. 88, on July 7, 2006, in Goshen, NY. Devoted husband of Mary B. Barrett, loving father of David and Didi, and proud grandfather of Alec and Annabel Barrett. Raised in Shanghai, China, educated at Grinnell College and Harvard, he was a dedicated teacher and retired chairman
 BENSON--J. Goffe, 93, died in his home in Waccabuc, NY on June 30, 2006. His career at Union Carbide (now part of Dow Chemical), included serving as the president of the Linde division, and as a vice president of the corporation. Mr. Benson was an avid golfer, and traveled extensively. His 
 BOLGER--Francis J, 78, actor, director, teacher, and activist, died on June 5, 2006. Mr. Bolger appeared in television, film, and New York theater, receiving great critical acclaim for his performance in the Broadway revival of The Hasty Heart. In Los Angeles, he founded the Group Theater W
 BRODERICK--Most Reverend Edwin B. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick notes with deep sadness the passing of a most distinguished, honorary member, the Most Reverend Edwin B. Broderick and extends its deepest sympathy and condolences to his surviving nieces and nephews. Alfred E
 CANADE--Vincent, born July 9, 1916, to the late artist Vincent Canade and Josephine Canade, died January 26 of this year. Born in New York, Canade proudly served in the US Air Force during World War II in the 22nd Bomb Squadron and the 341st Bomb Group. A printer by trade, Canade spent most
 CHAZEN--Hartley James, the founding partner of Chazen & Fox, a specialist in securities, tax and transactional law, passed away Friday, June 30, in Greenwich, CT. He was a graduate of Harvard Law School where he was a Staff Member of the Harvard Law Record and the Harvard Legislative Bureau
 DEL TORO--Vincent, 82, Electrical Engineer and Emeritus Professor of City College of New York died on Wednesday, July 5, in New Jersey. He was a devoted teacher and prolific author. His teaching honors included three Educator of the Year awards and he authored 10 books on electrical enginee
 FRANKEL--Howard J. D.D.S. 83, July 1St, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, devoted husband and best friend of 56 years to Janice. Survived by son Jeffrey, daughter-in-law Gwen, granddaughter Holli and adored daughter Heidi Shore. In addition to a private practice in New York City, he held the ra
 FREED--Ethan. With a profound sense of grief the Camp Winadu family mourns the loss of Ethan Freed. Ethan was a model son, brother, grandson, camper, student, athlete and friend. Everyone who knew him loved and respected his ability to find peaceful solutions to all situations. Ethan truly 
 FREEMAN--Sheldon H. Born December 27, 1935. Died July 7, 2006. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by wife Linda; sons Jon and Ross; grandchildren Maya, Lorelei & Maxwell and sister Lynn. His unique presence will be missed and remembered by family, friends, colleagues, t
 GINZBURG--Ralph. We, classmates, colleagues, and lifelong friends, mourn his death. We will remember his continuing battle for freedom of expression. We extend our condolences to his widow, son, daughters and grandchildren. Aaron Shapiro, Sanford Socolow, Carl Spielvogel       
 GLUCKSMAN--Lewis L. Passed away peacefully in Ireland on July 5, 2006. He was a passionate participant in all aspects of life, a wonderful friend, a loyal partner, a stalwart ally in good times and bad. Our heartfelt and most profound sympathy goes out to his wife Loretta, the source of so 
 GORDUN -- Douglas Wolfe. Died from cancer on June 26, 2006. Doug was a courageous and intrepid liberal, who dedicated his life as a professional consultant to elect Democratic candidates to local, state and national offices. He was an avid rock climber, raconteur, cyclist and Trekker. Doug 
 GRUBER--Robert A. On July 6 at 86 years. Devoted husband of Harriet and the late Marilyn, beloved and loving father of Gary, adored brother of the late Pearl and surviving sister Martha. Also survived by nieces Lise, Maya and Shelley, grandnephews Joshua and Charles, by Rod and Cheryl, Amy 
 HOMAN--William P., M.D. The physicians and staff of the Weber Homan P.C. practice deeply mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend who served as Director of NY Bariatrics and the Bariatric Program of the White Plains Hospital Center. Dr. Homan created the program with his w
 LASSER--Richard P., M.D. Loving father, grandfather, husband and companion. Renowned cardiology professor whose goodness touched and saved many lives by helping to create the cardiac stress test. He will be missed by his sons Daniel and Philip and family: Marguerite Perin Klein, companion o
 LEFF--Herbert W. of Bronxville, NY died on July 6, 2006 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife Marie D'Angelo Leff, sister Edith Leff and others. Funeral Mass was held at St. Catharine's Church in Pelham. Interment followed at Holy Mount Cemetery.       
 PAPIER--Dr. David, 89 years old, died on July 7, 2006. Loving husband to Sarah Nevins Papier for 56 years. A great father to Lewis, Edward and Arthur Papier; devoted brother to Harold; father-in-law to Susan Voci and grandfather to Ariana and Chloe Papier. He was a gentle, kind-hearted man 
 PELLEGRINO--Mark, Anthony, 51 on June 30, 2006. He had worked as the Computer Room Supervisor for Innovation Data Processing.Survivors include his wife Martha, his mother Marie, sister Judy, brother and sister-in-law Bruce and Celeste, and three nieces. Son of the late Anthony R. Pellegrino
 PURCELL--James T. Age 79, of North Fort Meyers, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died June 30 at Cape Coral Hospital. A veteran of WW II, he lived much of his life in Norwalk, CT and Willsboro, NY. He was employed by the New York Times for 35 years and retired as production manager in 1983. He is 
 REDO--Dr. S. Frank. On July 4, 2006. Husband to Maria (nee Lappano) for 58 years. Father to Philip and Martha. Father-in-law to Jenette Survived by his sisters, Carmela Massaro and Louise Massian. Healer and poet. A brilliant, gentle soul who made the world a better place. Born December 28,
 RICHARDS--Lloyd. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, artists and staff of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, we extend our sincere condolences to the family of Lloyd Richards who served as Artistic Director of the O'Neill's National Playwrights Conference for more than three decades. One of
 TACKLER--Barry. He was loved, admired and respected by all who were lucky enough to know him. His strength belied his gentleness. For 60 years his smile dazzled me. There is no end to the seas he loved and no end to the wonderful times Paula, Barry and I shared. It all went too fast. Ri & T
 USDAN--Morton. Beloved friend and owner. We will miss you very much. Supreme Corporation Usdan Kolmes Industries/UKI Hickory Dickory Dock $(6$)USDAN--Morton. Partner and friend for over 40 years, relative forever. You will be missed by the Kolmes family. Nat, Keely, and Matthew     
 WASKO--Bernie. Of Eastchester, NY, died July 3, 2006. Survived by his wife Adele, son Robert, daughter-in-law Sue, daughter Margery, sonin-law Michael, grandchildren Rebecca, Samantha, David and Jonathan, and sisters Betty Halpern and Ellen Wasko. Preceded in death by his son Steven. Bernie
 WATROUS - Philip. The Board of Directors and staff of Jericho Project mourn the passing of our friend and mentor Phil Watrous, a Founding Director of Jericho since 1983. Phil always showed compassion for those less fortunate, modestly likening himself to a leaky pail watering the plants alo
 WEIL--James We mourn the passing of our dear friend Jimmy Weil. He filled our lives with warmth and happiness. Our sympathy goes out to his wife Gloria and their children. We will all miss him. June and Gene Siegel $(6$)WEIL--James L. Passed away on July 7. He will be dearly missed 
 WEISS--Paul D., 98, of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away on June 30, 2006. With grace and warmth, he challenged and inspired the lives of all those who knew him. Devoted husband to Dorothy for 69 years; loving father of Larry, Judith and daughter-in-law Suzanne; cherished brother to Etta You
 BLOOMFIELD--Frederick A. Died peacefully on July 8, 2006, after a long and full life. He resided at the Whitney Center in Hamden, CT. Formerly of Cliffside Park, NJ, and New Hyde Park, NY. Predeceased by his beloved wife Theophilia (nee Novak). He was born September 4, 1913, son of the late
 HENDRICKSON--Benjamin. The Acting Company is deeply saddened by the death of our Founding Member and Alumni Committee Co-Chair. Ben was a great talent and a dear friend. He will be missed and lovingly remembered. Margot Harley, Producing Artistic Director Joan M. Warburg, President Earl D. 
 Ross Tompkins, a jazz pianist best known for his long tenure with Doc Severinsen's big band on the ''Tonight'' show, died on June 30 at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 68. His death was announced by his family, who did not specify the cause, although published reports said it
 Jack Sameth, a television director and producer who worked with pioneering newscasters and on prime-time entertainment shows at ABC, then helped create award-winning programs like ''The Great American Dream Machine'' and ''The Brain'' for public television, died Tuesday at his home in North
 Paul Nelson, a pioneering rock critic, was found dead in his apartment in Manhattan on Wednesday. He was 69. Steven Feltes of Evergreen Video in Greenwich Village, his friend and former employer, said Mr. Nelson, who had been suffering from memory problems, had apparently died of st
 David A. Bright, an internationally renowned authority on the sinking of the Andrea Doria who was helping lead preparations to commemorate the disaster's 50th anniversary later this month, collapsed and died on Saturday after making a dive into the wreck of the ship, about 60 miles south of
 Hugh Stubbins Jr., an architect best known for the angular tower of the Citicorp Center in Manhattan, but also noted for his design of the Reagan Presidential Library in California and of the tallest building in Japan, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94. The cause was p
 John William Money, who helped found the field of sexual identity studies, died Friday in Towson, Md. He was 84. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said Dr. Money's niece Sally Hopkins. A psychologist at Johns Hopkins University for over 50 years, Dr. Money 
 BOGEN--Irving, 90, of Manhattan died Thursday July 6th, 2006 after a long illness. A free lance commercial artist and master calligrapher, his art work for Random House, Delacorte, Knopf, and many others graced the covers of many first editions, including Truman Capote's ''In Cold Blood''. 
 EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Kathy, Samara and Adam, Ilana and Jim, Jason, Joey and Ben. The world is dimmer, having lost one of its brightest stars. Fred gave healing, hope and inspiration to us and countless patients and their families. In our darkest days he 
 FRANCO--Herzl J. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 LEVERING--Walter B. The Trustees, the Women's Board and the staff of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to his wife, Else and the family of their dear friend. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1947. For over 50 years he gave unsparingly of his time and talent
 SCOTT--Harold Joseph. Of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on July 8, 2006, at 79 years old. Mr. Scott was born on December 19, 1927, in New York, New York to the late Harold Bertram and Mary Cornella Scott. Harry served in the U.S. Army and was a graduate of St. John's University. In the late six
 SIEGAL--Molly. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Michael Siegal and cherished wife of Sol Siegal. Michael Siegal is the distinguished Vice Chairman of Israel Bonds' National Board. We extend our sincere condolence
 Wallace Potts, film archivist for the Rudolf Nureyev Foundation, died on June 29 in Los Angeles. He was 59. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said Sir John Tooley, chairman of the foundation. Mr. Potts assembled a comprehensive collection of every known appearance by 
 Barnard Hughes, a Tony- and Emmy-award-winning actor who was well-known for playing warm-hearted if not always serious-minded father figures, died yesterday in New York. He was 90. His death was confirmed by his son, the director Doug Hughes. Though Mr. Hughes made his actin
 Dr. Fred J. Epstein, a pediatric neurosurgeon who devised new ways to operate on slow-growing tumors intertwined with brain stems and spinal cords, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68. The cause was melanoma, his wife, Kathy, said. Dr. Epstein performed 
 Harold P. Olmo, a world famous grape breeder and geneticist who helped to create the modern California wine industry, died in Davis, Calif., on June 30. He was 96. The cause was complications of a hip fracture, according to the University of California, Davis. Dr. Olmo serve
 Jesse Simons, a noted labor arbitrator who four decades ago helped arrange the system of collective bargaining between New York City and its employees that remains in use today, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, said Karen Kushner, a 
 BOGEN--Irving, 90, of Manhattan died Thursday July 6th, 2006 after a long illness. A free lance commercial artist and master calligrapher, his art work for Random House, Delacorte, Knopf, and many others graced the covers of many first editions, including Truman Capote's ''In Cold Blood''. 
 BRENNAN--Bernard P., Ph.D. born on April 30, 1918 of Brooklyn Heights passed away on July 11th at the age of 88. Beloved son of Margaret and Michael Brennan form County Longford in Ireland. He attended St. Teresa of Avila Grade School in Brooklyn, class of 1932 and graduated from Cathedral 
 DRAPOS--Alex, The American Farm School mourns the untimely passing of its beloved trustee , former chairman of the Board. Alex was a devoted friend, who gave generously to the School. He will be deeply missed. A tree is being planted in his memory in the campus Olive Grove.       
 EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Kathy, Samara and Adam, Ilana and Jim, Jason, Joey and Ben. The world is dimmer, having lost one of its brightest stars. Fred gave healing, hope and inspiration to us and countless patients and their families. In our darkest days he 
 FAMILANT--Aaron (Arcky). On July 10, 2006, age 85. With sadness and love, the family of Aaron Familant marks his passing. Devoted husband of the late Rosalind for over 60 years, father of Linda Meisel (Arthur) and Robert Familant (Ray Anne), proud grandfather of Seth (Anna), Micah (Rachel) 
 FERBER--Arnold. Wow, what a life. A life of generosity, of adventure and exploration, of challenge and triumph and steadfast determination. Arnold was born in New York on October 29, 1920, the only child of Beatrice and Irving Feinberg. He graduated CCNY at 19, then joined the Army to serve
 FOX--Professor Seymour, 77, died July 10th, in Jerusalem, Israel. Beloved husband of Sue, father of David, Eytan, Danny and family. A cherished leader in outstanding educational initiatives in the United States, Israel, and worldwide. Including his positions as: Director of camps Ramah, Dea
 GLUCKSMAN--Lewis L. With sadness we acknowledge the passing of a great friend and benefactor for his generous support of our Residency Training Program. Heartfelt sympathy to his wife and family. Howard Thistle, MD Vice Chairman & Clinical Program Director Mathew Lee, MD Howard A. Rusk Prof
 KRETCHMER--Steven. MaeVona LLC mourns the untimely passing of Steven Kretchmer--pioneer, wizard and friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and community. Maeve S. Gillies, President Kenneth A. Cowin, CEO       
 LASSER--Richard P., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his son Daniel (MSSM '85) and the entire family. Barry Stimmel, M.D.,Pres. Elliot Rayfield, M.D. Vice
 POLLACK--Russell L. July 10, 2006. He leaves behind his loving children Nathaniel and Jason and their mother Jessica. Devoted son of Simeon and Isobel;loving brother of Deborah, Marianne, Shoshannah and Richard. Beloved companion of Falisha. He will be forever missed by all who knew and lov
 ROTH--Henry.Died on May 24 at the age of 72. Associate Professor of English at City College, he published numerous works of fiction. Beloved husband of Ellen, father of Steven, Susan, Anna, Jeremy and Juliana. Memorial service Wednesday July 19 at 2pm at The Palisades Presbyterian Church in
 SUGRUE--Albert ''Bud''. We mourn the loss of Bud Sugrue who was the leader of the facility team at our congregation. Bud loved life and touched the lives of all of us at Congregation B'nai Yisrael, young and old alike. His spirit will be profoundly missed. We share our loss with his wife, S
 WASSERMAN--Jeffrey. A memorial to celebrate his life will be held at Friends Meeting House, 15 Rutherford Pl. NYC, Thursday July 13 at 10:30am. Donations in his memory may be sent to Hospice Inc., Dutchess County, NY.       
 WORGAN--David S., Esq. Age 94 of Little Compton, RI formerly of New York City, NY died Monday, July 3, 2006 at his residence. He was the husband of the late Judge Florence M. Kelley. Born in New York City son of the late Emmanuel Worgan and the late Rose (Wein) Worgan. He was a 1929 graduat
 Syd Barrett, the erratically brilliant songwriter and singer who created the psychedelic rock of Pink Floyd only to leave the band in 1968 with mental problems, died on July 7 at his home in Cambridgeshire, England. He was 60. His death was confirmed by a spokesman for his former ba
 Irving Kaplansky, a mathematician who broke ground in exploring concepts central to algebra and multiplication, died on June 25 at his home in the Los Angeles community of Sherman Oaks. He was 89. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. From 1945 to 1984, Dr. Kap
 DRAPOS--Alex. The American Farm School mourns the untimely passing of its beloved trustee, former chairman of the Board. Alex was a devoted friend, who gave generously to the School. He will be deeply missed. A tree is being planted in his memory in the campus olive grove.       
 EPSTEIN--Fred J. , MD. The NYU Medical Center community mourns the passing of the great pioneer in pediatric neurosurgery, Fred J. Epstein, MD, our colleague for many years. We salute him for his life-saving advances in the treatment of brain tumors and for the boundless compassion with whi
 FEINER--Michael, 68, on July 4th, 2006. Beloved husband of Susan Blond. Loving father of Sharon LItvack and Uri Feiner. Proud grandfather of Lior and Shira LItvack. An immigration attorney, he served the Jewish-Israeli community and had served as Chair of the AILA. He was recently honored b
 FOX--Seymour. The Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion community mourns the passing of a great Jewish leader whose love for the Jewish people and vision played a singular role in advancing Jewish education and leadership. He will be sorely missed. Rabbi David Ellenson, Presiden
 HABBERSTAD--Howard L., Sr. 71, auto dealer, founder & retired President of Habberstad BMW and Habberstad Nissan of Huntington Station, NY, passed away peacefully in Hospice care on July 11, 2006 after a courageous battle with Lymphoma. Howard was a lifelong resident of Huntington & upon ret
 HUGHES--Barnard. The Episcopal Actors' Guild of America fondly mourns our beloved President Emeritus. All love, Barney, all love. $(6$)HUGHES--Barnard. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the passing of a consummate actor, as well as our dear friend and trustee, Barnard Hughes, and s
 KIRMSER--Earl died July 11th from a stroke. Born August 21st, 1916, in St. Paul, Minnesota, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota. He was a writer and editor at newspapers in Minnesota, Columbus, Ohio, and at The Washington Post. He served in the U.S. Navy during Worl
 KRETCHMER--Steven. MaeVona LLC mourns the untimely passing of Steven Kretchmer--pioneer, wizard and friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and community. Maeve S. Gillies, President Kenneth A. Cowin, CEO       
 WEINBURG--Martin. The Board of Governors and Members of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of Martin Weinburg. Beloved husband of Barbara, and we extend deepest sympathy to the family. David Horowitz, President David Bernstein, Secretary $(6$)WEINBURG--Martin (Mickey
 BARRAGAN--Luis. Sunny side Community Servicesmourns the loss of our board member. Luis joined the board recently, but quickly became one of our most active, enthusiastic members. Ready to help in so many ways. He will be greatly missed. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Ron 
 DARLING--William Ritchie, 72, of Amherst, MA, died on April 13, 2006. The son of Henry Maurice and Frances Clarke Darling, he grew up in Bronxville, NY, graduating from Bronxville High School in 1951. He received Bachelor of Arts degrees from Goddard and Windham Colleges, VT, and in 1959, a
 HUGHES--Barnard. July 11, 2006. Born in Bedford Hills, NY July 16, 1915, the son of Owen and Madge Hughes. Survived by his wife Helen Stenborg of NYC; his son Doug Hughes; his daughter Laura Hughes and a grandson, Samuel Hughes Rubin. Funeral service will be private. Plans for a memorial ga
 KIRMSER--Earl died July 11th from a stroke. Born August 21st, 1916, in St. Paul, Minnesota, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota. He was a writer and editor at newspapers in Minnesota, Columbus, Ohio, and at The Washington Post. He served in the U.S. Navy during Worl
 KRETCHMER--Steven. Died July 8, 2006 in a tragic accident. He was a highly respected, internationally renowned, award winning jewelry designer. He was a brilliant, creative master of his craft. He was a special person with a passion for life and for his art. He will be remembered and missed
 SAUNDERS--Peter. 83, in Los Angeles, CA July 10, 2006. Devoted father of David (wife Jayne) and Dan (wife Jennifer), loving grandfather of Ben, Rachel and Zach. He will be missed by all who knew him for his humor, courage and integrity.       
 SPAR--Morris. The Temple Gates of Prayer family mourns the loss of our former President who served from 1965 to 1967. Through a gift to JTS he sought to enrich the training of future Rabbis. Sincerest condolences to Betty and the family. Arne Abramowitz, President Albert Thaler, Rabbi      
 WEINBURG--Martin (Mickey). 73, passed away peacefully at his home on July 12th. Beloved husband of Barbara for 45 years. Loving father of Bonnie (Scott) Rogoff, and Susie (Adam) Hurwitz. Adoring grandfather of Jonathan, Andie, Jenni, Brian, Melissa, and Sean. Devoted brother of Leila. He wa
 Red Buttons, the Borscht Belt comic who rose to instant television stardom on his own variety show in 1952, descended to obscurity three years later after his program was canceled and then rebounded to win an Academy Award for his dramatic performance in the 1957 film ''Sayonara,'' died yes
 George W. Albee, a psychologist and former president of the American Psychological Association who argued that poverty and social deprivation were the root causes of many mental and emotional disorders, died on July 8 at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 84. His death was confir
 BUTTONS--Red. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Friar Red Buttons. Red, the Friars Scribe Emeritus, was a comedy genius whose gift of laughter was unparalleled. His mastery of wit endeared him to Friars during roasts a
 EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. We convey our deepest condolences to his wife Kathy and children; Fred drew strength and courage from all of you, giving him the energy and peace to carry on the busy life he did. Despite many obligations, his door and heart were always open to all families, wealthy and p
 PELLMAN--Herbert M. On July 13, 2006, of Stamford, Ct., formerly of Harrison, N.Y. and Green Valley, AZ. With sadness and love the family of Herbert M . Pellman announce his passing at age 90. Cherished husband of Estelle for almost 60 years, beloved father of Susan and Jack Bolnick, Debora
 SIMPSON--Kenneth H. Colonnade Properties LLC acknowledges with deep sorrow the passing of our friend andcolleague, Kenneth H. Simpson. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Fouche, and hi s family. $(6$)SIMPSON--Kenneth We mourn the loss of our friend and client. We 
 SUNDARAM--Kalyan, 73, died July 13, 2006. Born in Hydrabad, India. Kalyan received his Masters degree from the University of Manitoba and PhD from Purdue University. He recently retired as a senior scientist at the Population Council at Rockefeller University. He was an excellent squash pla
 WEIS--Frederick. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its founding member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Assoc. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus $(6$)W
 ALEXANDER--Nicholas, died July 12 at home at age 81 after a life of adventure beginning in Romania, taking many dramatic turns, and successfully ending in the United States--the country he loved and whose citizen he chose to become. Professionally a civil engineer and entrepreneur; at heart
 Raja Rao, an internationally renowned novelist who was among the first major Indian writers to cajole the English language into conveying the distinctive cadences of his native country, died on July 8 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 97. The cause was heart failure, said his wife,
 John Spencer, a three-time world-champion snooker player whose suave elegance and assertive style of play helped elevate his sport, a form of billiards, above soccer and cricket on British television in the 1970's, died Tuesday in Bolton, England. He was 71. The cause was stomach ca
 BARTLETT--Thomas Foster, passed away in New York City on July 12, 2006. Bartlett, 87, is survived by his sister Beth B. Gocke, of Oklahoma City, his long time companion Clelia Moraes, of New York City, three nephews, three nieces, eight grandnephews and five grandnieces. He was preceded in 
 BAUSCH--James, 70, noted executive in nonprofit and foundation organizations, died at his home in Siesta Key, FL due to pancreatic cancer. In 1961 he joined the first group of Peace Corps volunteers in Bangladesh. Professionally, he served as Chief of the South Asia Division of the Peace Co
 BELL--David Eugene, of Washington Depot, CT, died peacefully at his home on Sunday, July 2. A memorial service will be held at the Stone Church, New Preston Hill Road, New Preston, CT, on Sunday, July 30 at 2pm. For information: 646-784-3770.       
 BERGEN--Philip N. of Dundee, Oregon formerly of Demarest, NJ, died July 13, 2006 at the age of 84. Survivors include his wife Pamela Homes Bergen; sons Pieter, David, Andrew and daughters Julia and Anne and six granddaughters.       
 EPSTEIN--Dr. Fred. The Neurofibromatosis community mourns the passing of Dr. Fred Epstein. His pioneering work and indomitable spirit brought hope to many with NF. His innovative surgical approaches were matched with warmth and respect for his patients. We are eternally grateful for his ser
 GILSON--Saul B., M.D. 84, who practiced internal medicine in Washington Heights for 50 years, died peacefully at home July 9, 2006. Preceded in death by his son William, he is survived by his loving wife Estelle, son Michael, and grandchildren Amy & Rebecca Gilson and Jonas & Jordan Moses G
 KAYE--Robert., M.D. Died June 14 after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Ellen Eskin. Father of Elizabeth, Peggy, Hillary, Tony and Stanford (Chip). Grandfather of Nora, Natalie and Vivian. Brother of Betty Kaye Taylor and Stephen Kaye. Highly regarded for his contribution to the stud
 KRETCHMER--Steven. Died July 8, 2006 in a tragic accident. He was a highly respected, internationally renowned, award winning jewelry designer. He was a brilliant, creative master of his craft. He was a special person with a passion for life and for his art. He will be remembered and missed
 PELLMAN--Herbert M. On July 13, 2006, of Stamford, Ct., formerly of Harrison, N.Y. and Green Valley, AZ. With sadness and love the family of Herbert M . Pellman announce his passing at age 90. Cherished husband of Estelle for almost 60 years, beloved father of Susan and Jack Bolnick, Debora
 PURCELL--Irving G. Loving husband and dedicated father, passed away at the age of 89. Irving received a BS degree from City College, MBA from Baruch, JD degree from Brooklyn Law, and a postgraduate LLM degree from NYU. He served as a meteorologist for the US Airforce in the rank of Tech Ser
 REES--Charles H. G. At age 84. President to 1985 of Whitney Communications Corp., a media conglomerate with interests in publishing and broadcasting, died on July 12, 2006, following surgery. He had resided in Stonington, CT, for the past eleven years, previously in Watch Hill, RI, after re
 SIMPSON--Kenneth H. Colonnade Properties LLC acknowledges with deep sorrow the passing of our friend andcolleague, Kenneth H. Simpson. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Fouche, and hi s family. $(6$)SIMPSON--Kenneth We mourn the loss of our friend and client. We 
 STRAETZ--Robert P. died Tuesday, July 4, 2006 at Jupiter Hospital in Florida. Born in Hillside, NJ, August 20, 1921, Mr. Straetz was raised in Chicago, IL, and attended the University of Chicago, where he earned a B.S. degree in Chemistry. Immediately after Pearl Harbor he enlisted in the N
 SUNDARAM--Kalyan, 73, died July 13, 2006. Born in Hydrabad, India. Kalyan received his Masters degree from the University of Manitoba and PhD from Purdue University. He recently retired as a senior scientist at the Population Council at Rockefeller University. He was an excellent squash pla
 SUOMALA--Robert. Bob, an attorney in Chicago, died there on July 4th. He was a devoted husband of the late Jean Dobrer, and the brother of Diane and Laurie. Goodbye, Bob. We will remember you with love, always. Ken, Janet, Florence and Nina Dobrer       
 THURM--Samuel, at age 88, following a long illness. Dartmouth and Columbia graduate, WWII veteran, Media Director at Young & Rubicam and Sr. VP Advertising at Lever Bros., ''Newsweek'' referred to him as ''the Branch Rickey of nighttime television,'' for his leadership in casting minorities
 URIS--Michael. Died Friday morning, at his home in his sleep, at 67. Uris, a noted advertising executive, is survived by his three children, one granddaughter, beloved ex-wife and a few close friends who would like him remembered as a man of brilliance, warmth, style, humor and generosity. 
 WEINER--Howard, MD. On July 15, 2006. Beloved father of Jeffrey, Cynthia, Michael, Jeanne Gerstley Weiner, and Susan Moss. Cherished husband of the late Phyllis Lifton Weiner. Treasured brother of Robert and Deborah Weiner of Denver, CO, and Martin and Ellie Lifton of Old Westbury, NY. Devo
 WOLF--Marvin J. Age 87, born April 17, 1919, died peacefully on July 14, 2006. Devoted husband for 59 years to Rose, who predeceased him. A wonderful father to Diane Katz, Arlene Fauser and Sharon Horowitz, and to his sons-in-law Steve, Robert and Mark. Proud grandfather to Brian (Nancy) Ka
 ALEXANDER--Nicholas, died July 12 at home at age 81 after a life of adventure beginning in Romania, taking many dramatic turns, and successfully ending in the United States--the country he loved and whose citizen he chose to become. Professionally a civil engineer and entrepreneur; at heart
 James A. Nicholas, a pioneer in the treatment of athletic injuries who was best known for performing four knee operations that saved the celebrated career of Jets quarterback Joe Namath, died Saturday in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was colon cancer, said his daughter, Nicol
 Lt. Gov. Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, who followed his family's twin traditions of philanthropy and politics in the state adopted by his father, died here Sunday. He was 57. The cause was complications of a rare blood ailment, his office said. Mr. Rockefeller disclosed last Ju
 JAITIN--Maurice. On July 14. Beloved husband of Martha, devoted father of Gail and Aileen, delighted grandfather of Jules and Lindsay, much loved brother of Nathan, caring and committed optician to all his customers. Predeceased by his wife, Jean, of 35 years. Services were held 1:15 pm, Su
 REES--Charles H. The trustees, faculty and staff, students, parents and alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional friend. The Sacred Heart community will cherish the memory of Cat's loving spirit and remember his wife, Nancy, and his e
 SIMPSON--Kenneth.The principals, officers & employees of GVA Williams mourn the untimely passing of our friend and client. Ken will be warmly remembered and missed by all those who have had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. A truly nice and decent man. $(6$)SIMPSON--Kenn
 TRIAS--Peter J. Poet, painter, designer, architect and real estate developer, died suddenly on Friday night, Bastille Day, of an apparent heart attack. He was 57 and lived in Venice, California and Sag Harbor, New York. Peter was born November 14, 1948 in Detroit, Michigan, the first of the
 WEINER--Howard, M.D. Our entire family is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear brother-in-law and uncle, Howard, devoted husband of Martin's late sister Phyllis. Our deepest sympathy to Jeff and Jeannie, Michael and Susan, and Cynthia. We will all miss him. Ellie and Martin Lifton Steven
 WOLF--Marvin. I have lost a dear friend and companion, with whom I have shared many wonderful memories and weather through good time and bad. With love, Florence Wanes $(6$)WOLF--Marvin J. Age 87, born April 17, 1919, died peacefully on July 14, 2006. Devoted husband for 59 years to
 Arthur J. Haggerty, perhaps the most famous dog trainer in the United States, who was familiar to legions of dog owners as Captain Haggerty and to legions of dogs as He Who Must Be Obeyed, died on July 3 in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 and lived in Jupiter, Fla. The cause was can
 Charles H. G. Rees, a former president of the Whitney Communications Corporation, which once owned a third of The International Herald Tribune, as well as numerous magazines, small newspapers and cable television stations, died last Wednesday in Westerly, R.I. Mr. Rees, who lived in Stoning
 Mickey Spillane, the creator of  Mike Hammer, the heroic but frequently sadistic private detective who blasted his way through some of the most violent novels of the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at his home in Murrells Inlet, S.C. He was 88 and had homes in South Carolina and New York Ci
 ADLER--Richard. The Board of Directors of the John B. Stetson Company expresses its sorrow at the passing of its long time president, Richard Adler, and extends sympathy to the members of his family. Paul Guilden, Chairman       
 BARISH--Steven Ira. July 14, 2006, age 65. Devoted husband to Irene Barouh-Barish. Loving brother and brotherin-law to Ida and Sam Fine. Wonderful stepfather to Joel and Elizabeth Rothman, Caroline Rothman, and Judith and Eric Wagner. Beloved uncle to Cindy Williams and Deborah Fine. Caring
 COLLIGAN--Rev.Msgr. Joseph F. (Pastor Emeritus of Our Lady Queen of Martyrs R.C. Church, Centerport) Suddenly on July 17th, 2006. Beloved son of the late William and Florence (Thompson) Colligan. Dear brother of the late William J., Jr. and the late Charles A. Fond brotherin-law of Josephin
 COOPER--Harold, former Chairman and CEO of Simplicity Pattern Company, passed away on July 10. He was 83. He joined Simplicity in 1953 upon graduation from law school. Over the next 30 years, he served in a variety of sales, marketing and executive positions within the company. In 1975, he 
 GALLENT--Martin. Devoted husband of Aline; loving father of Amy (Randy), Judith (Scott) and Gregory (Janet). Doting grandfather of Lauren, Eli, Benjamin, Stephanie and Julia. Died unexpectedly July 16th. Former Vice Chairman, New York City Planning Commission, former Chairman, Community Boa
 GOLDSTEIN--Jerry, on July 17, 2006 at the age of 79. He was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY to the late Simon and Sadie Goldstein. He served in the US Navy from 1943-1945, where he played basketball on the Championship Interservice Navy Basketball Team. He was a founding partner of US Lugga
 GRAY--Meldin. Devoted husband to Dorothy, loving father of Julia and grandfather of Andrew, Eric and Emily. Former president of the Bettmann Archive. He will be missed. Memorial service on Thursday, July 20th (His 89th birthday) at 1pm at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KLION--Herbert To our dearest friend Herbert, you were always there for me and our family. We shall miss you forever. Rest in Peace. Love Mona, Felix, Andrew, Sarah and Jamie. $(6$)KLION--Herbert. The Koenig Family extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Herbert Klion, our dearest fri
 NICHOLAS--James A., Dr. 85, died peacefully at home on Saturday, July 15, 2006. Devoted husband of 54 years to Kiki and wonderful father to Philip, Stephen and Nicole. Adored grandfather to nine grandchildren; a brilliant and humble man with a great capacity for love and an unforgettable sm
 REEVE--H. Robert. Peacefully after a brief illness, July 16, 2006 in Essex, CT, age 89. Survived by wife, Claire Bruch Reeve and children Judith Ann Reeve Baker of Hanover, N.H., Randi Reeve Filoon of Greenwich, CT, Robert B. Reeve of Natick, MA, and H. Richard Reeve of Denver, CO. Graduate
 SHIELDS--John Edmond ''Jack'' of Manhasset and Port Washington, passed on July 15, 2006 at the age of 76. Jack shared his life, his work and his love with his wife, Ann of 48 years, his children, J.P. (Leslie), Patti (Tim), Rob (Maureen) and Kevin (Michelle), his grandchildren, Kaci, Quinn 
 SIMPSON--Kenneth.The principals, officers & employees of GVA Williams mourn the untimely passing of our friend and client. Ken will be warmly remembered and missed by all those who have had the pleasure of knowing and working with him. A truly nice and decent man.       
 WEINER--Howard, M.D. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged express their sorrow at the passing of Dr. Howard Weiner, dear brother-in-law of JASA's devoted Trustee Martin Lifton. We extend our condolences to Ellie and Martin Lifton and the entire family. Dav
 GOLDBERGER--Alfred. The Officers, Governors and members of the Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Alfred Godberger and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Tuesday, July 18, 2006 at 11:30 AM at the Sutton Place Synagogue at 225 East
 VENKATASWAMY-Govindappa, M.D. on July 7th, 2006, at the age of 87 years, Dr. Venkataswamy passed away in Madurai, India. Dr. V, an Ophthalmologist, was the founder of the Aravind Eye Care System. The ''Aravind Model'' is recognized worldwide for providing high quality, state-ofthe-art eye c
 Robert H. Brooks, who, as the self-styled ''Worldwide Wing Commander'' of Hooters restaurants, known for spicy chicken wings and spicier waitresses, took the company to 46 states and 20 countries, died on Sunday at his home in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 69. The company announced the 
 Aleksander Wojtkiewicz, a chess grandmaster originally from Latvia who won or tied for first in the five tournaments in which he played in the last month of his life, died Friday in Baltimore. He was 43. The cause was internal bleeding, said Amber Berglund, his companion. Mr
 Martin Gallent, a former vice chairman of the New York City Planning Commission who regularly fought to preserve open space in urban settings, drowned Sunday while swimming in a lake in Westchester County. He was 75 and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens. The death was announced by hi
 BILKEY--H. Edward. Born April 21, 1934 in New York, died suddenly July 14, 2006. Survived by his wife Susan Noyes Bilkey, his mother Emily Frelinghuysen McFarland, and the children of H. Edward Bilkey and the late Janet Norton, Linda Krainik, Carlin Steingard, Barbara Garvey and Edward Bilk
 COLLIGAN--Rev.Msgr. Joseph F. (Pastor Emeritus of Our Lady Queen of Martyrs R.C. Church, Centerport) Suddenly on July 17th, 2006. Beloved son of the late William and Florence (Thompson) Colligan. Dear brother of the late William J., Jr. and the late Charles A. Fond brotherin-law of Josephin
 DANIELS--Dawn. In loving memory, Dawn B. Daniels, 63, of New York, N.Y. on July 16, 2006. Wife of the late Rev. S. James Daniels, beloved mother of Kevin and his wife Alexandra, Peter and his wife Melanie, Timothy and his wife Rebecca and Melanie Daniels. Also survived by 7 cherished grand 
 GALLENT--Martin. The American Planning Association, N.Y. Metro Chapter mourns the loss of Martin Gallent, our esteemed colleague, friend and past president. He was a distinguished planner who contributed greatly to our city. Our heart felt sympathy to his family. $(6$)GALLENT--Marti
 JAMES--Donald of East Hampton, NY, died peacefully at home on July 18th, 2006. Survived by Kenneth Greenstein, his partner of over 45 years, many friends, and all of the Greenstein family who loved him dearly. Funeral arrangements private. Donations in Don's memory may be made to East End H
 KETCHAM--William Tred well Jr. The U.S. Section of the Jesters Club mourns the loss of our national representative and former President. USSRA President from 19651967. Recipient of the USSRA President's Club 1969. Seven time National Veterans Squash Doubles Champion. Former MSRA President. 
 KLION--Herbert To our dearest friend Herbert, you were always there for me and our family. We shall miss you forever. Rest in Peace. Love Mona, Felix, Andrew, Sarah and Jamie. $(6$)KLION--Herbert. A true gentleman, a man of integrity who gave of himself, to all. He created love all 
 NICHOLAS--James A., Dr. 85, died peacefully at home on Saturday, July 15, 2006. Devoted husband of 54 years to Kiki and wonderful father to Philip, Stephen and Nicole. Adored grandfather to nine grandchildren; a brilliant and humble man with a great capacity for love and an unforgettable sm
 PAPERT--Diane Keedwell. The Board of Directors and staff of the 42nd Street Development Corporation mourn the passing of Diane K. Papert. We extend our heartfelt thoughts to our Founder and President, Frederic S. Papert and his family. A. Jones Yorke Chairman       
 WEINER--Howard A., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Department of Psychiatry of Lenox Hill Hospital express profound sorrow at the passing of Howard A. Weiner, M.D., a distinguished psychiatrist on our staff for over 40 years. Dr. Weiner was an outstanding physician, esteemed c
 Winston Wilson, one of the founders of Wilson Daniels Ltd., the Napa Valley wine importing firm that is the American source of some of the most famous wines of France and Italy, died Sunday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 63. The cause was esophageal cancer, a spokeswoman f
 Andy Sudduth, a leading American oarsman who captured Olympic and world championship medals and rowed on a powerful Harvard heavyweight crew in the 1980's, died Saturday in Marion, Mass. He was 44. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Ruth Kennedy Sudduth. Perform
 Henry Hewes, a longtime theater critic for The Saturday Review and the founder of the American Theater Critics Association, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 89. His death was announced by his friend Jeffrey Eric Jenkins, the editor of ''The Best Plays Theater Yearboo
 BILKEY--H. Edward. Born April 21, 1934 in New York, died suddenly July 14, 2006. Survived by his wife Susan Noyes Bilkey, his mother Emily Frelinghuysen McFarland, and the children of H. Edward Bilkey and the late Janet Norton, Linda Krainik, Carlin Steingard, Barbara Garvey and Edward Bilk
 CARLSON--David F. Of Rye, NY. Died July 17, 2006 at age 66. David was the proprietor of the Village Book Shop in Rye. Survived by his wife Marianne (McGrath) Carlson, a mother Dorothy Carlson, a brother Gunnar Scot Carlson and a sister Roberta Carnwath. A Memorial Gathering will be planned 
 GALLENT--Martin. Former Counsel, Jackson Heights CDC. His fingerprints rest on the buildings and streets of Jackson Heights. Eric Jacobs, Former ED, Jackson Heights CDC       
 GRAY--Meldin. Devoted husband to Dorothy, loving father of Julia and grandfather of Andrew, Eric and Emily. Former president of the Bettmann Archive. He will be missed. Memorial service on Thursday, July 20th (His 89th birthday) at 1pm at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HEWES--Henry. The editors and staff of The Best Plays Theater Yearbook mourn the passing of our beloved friend, collaborator and mentor. Passionate in his advocacy of all things theatrical, Henry Hewes's legacy to the American theater will stand for generations to come. We extend our deepes
 JAMES--Donald of East Hampton, NY, died peacefully at home on July 18th, 2006. Survived by Kenneth Greenstein, his partner of over 45 years, many friends, and all of the Greenstein family who loved him dearly. Funeral arrangements private. Donations in Don's memory may be made to East End H
 KESSELER--Howard J., M.D., former Attending Surgeon at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Florida. He was 83. Howard Joseph Kesseler was born on February 12, 1923 in Germany and grew up in Mahattan. He graduated from Amherst College i
 KETCHAM--William T. The Governors, membership and staff of The Rockaway Hunting Club note with sorrow the death of our esteemed fellow member of sixty-five years, William Tredwell Ketcham, Jr. A many time Club champion in squash and tennis, Treddy was the longest serving Club president (198
 NICHOLAS--James, M.D. On July 15, 2006. The Hess family is deeply saddened and mourns the loss of their dear friend, Dr. Jim Nicholas. He was a great man, a great friend and a great doctor who was part of our extended family for more than 50 years. Leon Hess was very proud to be involved in
 NYTZEN--Jan Malte, an international business consultant and resident of New YorkCity and Bridgehampton, died unexpectedly July 12, 2006 in San Francisco. He was 71. Born in Southern Sweden, Mr. Nytzen graduated from Helsingborg College of Commerce, and obtained an MBA degree from the Stockh
 O'NEIL--John B., 58, passed away very suddenly on July 17, 2006. He was employed loyally by Hillard-Farber & Co., a government bond brokerage company on Wall St. John was a loving son of the late George and Beatrice O'Neil, wonderful brother to Susan, Michael, Jane and Ann, dear brother-in-
 REES--Charles H.G. The Officers, Trustees and staff of Riverside Research Institute mourn the passing of Charles H.G. Rees on July 12, 2006. Mr. Rees served with distinction on the Board of Trustees for nearly three decades. The Institute was strengthened by his wise counsel, his keen insig
 STECKLER--Stanley A, MD The Officers, Councilors, and Trustees of the Medical Society of the State of New York record with deep sorrow the passing of their esteemed friend and colleague Stanley A Steckler, MD. He graced with his presence the lives of innumerable patients, friends, and fello
 RICHARDSON--Ralph E. ''One morn I missed him on the custom'd hill.'' Love, C.       
 GOLDBERGER--Freddy. We will miss your remarkable smile and unconditional friendship. We extend our condolences to Steffi and the rest of his family, we will always think of you. Olga, Joe, Josh, Garay, Jack and Elizabeth Rosenthal       
 Mark Ryder, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1940's who went on to form his own company and to teach modern dance at several colleges, died on July 13 in Columbia, Md. He was 85. His death was announced by his wife, Mary Ratcliffe. Mr. Ryder was on the faculty of
 ACKEMANN--Andrew C. passed quietly on July 19, having valiantly fought pancreatic cancer. Andrew was an acknowledged expert in rationalization of complex global organizational structures. Before beginning his coaching practice in 1999, he served as a management consultant with McKinsey & Co
 ARMSTRONG--Gary Lee, 59, died of AIDS at home in Manhattan on July 19. A native of Shelby, Ohio, Gary was an analyst at JP Morgan. Gary participated in the first protease inhibitor trial upon which Dr. David Ho based his Multidrug protocol to counter resistance developed in early patients. 
 DRAPKIN--Eli. On July 12, 2006 after a long illness. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Dennis, Joanne and Jonathan. Beloved father-in-law of Adrienne and Paula. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Jennifer, Julia, Rebecca, Jack and Jordan. Dear brother of Herb and brother-in-la
 HALE--Nathan. On July 19, 2006, peacefully at his home after a long illness. Born April 25, 1931 in New York City to the late Lillian and Nathan Hale. Graduate of Rocky Hill School, Moses Brown School, Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Respected Trusts & Estates lawyer, he practiced f
 KASS--Walter, PhD., 91, retired Professor of Psychology and Director of Psychological Services and Training at NYU-Bellevue Medical Center. Recently Adjunct Professor of Psychology and Attending Psychologist, NY Presbyterian Hospital-Westchester Division. Formerly Associate Professor, Dept.
 KESSELER--Howard J., M.D.The Board of Trustees, Medical Board, Department of Surgery and the entire Lenox Hill Hospital family mourn the passing of Howard J. Kesseler M.D., an esteemed member of our staff for almost 50 years. A brilinician deeply committed to his patients and highly regarde
 KETCHAM--William T. The Governors, membership and staff of The Rockaway Hunting Club note with sorrow the death of our esteemed fellow member of sixty-five years, William Tredwell Ketcham, Jr. A many time Club champion in squash and tennis, Treddy was the longest serving Club president (198
 MAYBERRY -- Kenneth T. Esq. July 15, 2006. Retired partner Deloitte & Touche LLP (Haskins & Sells). The Board of Directors and members of Beta Gamma Sigma Alumni of New York City mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow member. Ken served in many areas since beoming a Syracuse Universit
 MORRISON--Herbert. Passed away peacefully from cancer on July 20, 2006. He was born on July 31, 1924 in East New York, son of Benjamin and Olga Moskowitz. He served as a medic in the US Army during WWII. He graduated with a degree in business from the NYU School of Commerce in 1946. After m
 SUAREZ--Francisco H., M.D. On July 18, 2006. Beloved husband of Susana. Loving father of Terry, Susie and George; father-in-law of Kei, adoring grandfather of Cristina. Visiting Thursday, July 20th, 2-4 and 7-9pm at the ''Riverside'' 76th St & Amsterdam Av. Service Friday 11am at Holy Trini
 TSENG--Dr. Alexander Jr., husband of Cynthia Tolles Tseng, died peacefully in Palo Alto, CA, on July 10, 2006, of brain cancer at the age of 54. A joyful, respected and gifted man, he was an award-winning and beloved oncologist, researcher, writer and teacher, and leader of many medical ins
 ARMSTRONG--Gary Lee, 59, died of AIDS at home in Manhattan on July 19. A native of Shelby, Ohio, Gary was an analyst at JP Morgan. Gary participated in the first protease inhibitor trial upon which Dr. David Ho based his multidrug protocol to counter resistance developed in early patients. 
 BENNER--George Willard, 89, passed away peacefully July 16. ''Bill'' distinguished himself in the advertising field both at Bates &Co and Foote Cone and Belding. Predeceased by his beloved wife Dorothy, he is survived by his brother P. Drayton Benner, nephews D. Chris Benner, David G. Benne
 PAPERT--Diane. The Board of Directors of 133 East 64th Street express their sorrow at the loss of their neighbor Diane Papert. We extend our condolences to our friend Fred, and his family.       
 ROBINSON--Rabbi Michael A., Temple Israel of Northern Westchester mourns the loss of its deeply respected Rabbi Emeritus Michael A. Robinson, activist in defense of freedom, advocate in the cause of peace. His voice may be stilled, but his message will always sound in our hearts and minds. 
 Robert C. Mardian, a lawyer for President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign whose conviction on charges of conspiring to cover up the administration's involvement in the Watergate break-in was overturned, died Monday at his vacation home in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82 and lived in 
 ALTSCHUL--Rolf, 88, of New York City, passed away July 16th, 2006. Born in Dusseldorf, Germany on January 24, 1918, he received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from Harvard University in 1940. He taught chemistry at Sarah Lawrence College for over forty years. Rolf Altschul was preceded in death by hi
 BENNER--George Willard, 89, passed away peacefully July 16. ''Bill'' distinguished himself in the advertising field both at Bates &Co and Foote Cone and Belding. Predeceased by his beloved wife Dorothy, he is survived by his brother P. Drayton Benner, nephews D. Chris Benner, David G. Benne
 BROOKS--Shepherd. Born in Boston on May 6, 1914, died in Cambridge on July 17, 2006. Predeceased by beloved wife Esmee DeMenocal and brother Peter C. Brooks. He is survived by his children Angelica Martin of North Waterboro, Maine, and Charles Brooks, of North Pownell, Vermont and three gra
 DANIELS--Dawn. In loving memory, Dawn B. Daniels, 63, of New York, N.Y. on July 16, 2006. Wife of the late Rev. S. James Daniels, beloved mother of Kevin and his wife Alexandra, Peter and his wife Melanie, Timothy and his wife Rebecca and Melanie Daniels. Also survived by 7 cherished grand 
 DELVALLE--Ted. Of Miami, FL., went home to his maker on June 21, 2006. Sadly missed by his beloved wife, Yolanda, and daughters, Margaret Delvalle, and Merci Cavalleri.       
 ELSTER--Samuel,Dr. Temple Sinai of Bergen County deeply mourns the passing of our long time member Dr. Samuel Elster, husband of Maxine. Condolences are extended to the entire family. Dr. Bruce Block, Rabbi Janene Edlin, President $(6$)ELSTER--Samuel K., M.D. It is with profound sor
 FRANKEL--Bruce, DPM. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Students and Administration of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine express their profound sorrow at the passing of Bruce J. Frankel, DPM, Professor and Dean of Clinical Studies. Bruce was a beloved and much-respected member of the 
 HALE--Nathan. On July 19, 2006, peacefully at his home after a long illness. Born April 25, 1931 in New York City to the late Lillian and Nathan Hale. Graduate of Rocky Hill School, Moses Brown School, Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Respected Trusts & Estates lawyer, he practiced f
 KASS--Walter, PhD., 91, retired Professor of Psychology and Director of Psychological Services and Training at NYU-Bellevue Medical Center. Recently Adjunct Professor of Psychology and Attending Psychologist, NY Presbyterian Hospital-Westchester Division. Formerly Associate Professor, Dept.
 KESSELER--Dr. Howard. We wish to express our deepest sympathies to Howard Kesseler and his family on the loss of his father, Dr. Howard Kesseler. Kenneth Aschendorf Berndt Perl APF Properties       
 KETCHAM--William Tred well Jr. The Trustees of the Riot Relief Fund have learned with deep regret of the death of our good friend and colleague for over half a century. In 2001 the Trustees awarded our esteemed fellow The Riot Relief Fund Medal of Honor in recognition of his many years of e
 MAYBERRY -- Kenneth T. Esq. July 15, 2006. Retired partner Deloitte & Touche LLP (Haskins & Sells). The Board of Directors and members of Beta Gamma Sigma Alumni in New York City mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow member. Ken served in many areas since beoming a Syracuse Universit
 RAUE--Philip Baldwin, 86, passed away July 19. Long time resident of Pelham Manor, NY and South Newbury, VT, he is survived by his wife, Jeanne Lungren Raue, sons David and Gregory, their wives and 5 grandchildren. After Yale Law School he joined Donovan, Leisure, Newton and Irvine and reti
 SUAREZ--Francisco, Dr. The Lapin Family is heartbroken over the loss of our dear friend of 51 years. He was a gentleman, a scholar, a loving father and husband, and a dear friend. We will miss his warmth, humor and wisdom.       
 TSENG--Dr. Alexander Jr., husband of Cynthia Tolles Tseng, died peacefully in Palo Alto, CA, on July 10, 2006, of brain cancer at the age of 54. A joyful, respected and gifted man, he was an award-winning and beloved oncologist, researcher, writer and teacher, and leader of many medical ins
 ZUCKER--Gary, Dr., on July 20, 2006. Husband of Ruth Zucker. Father of Paul (Sherry) and Norman (Katherine). Grandfather of David. Dr. Gary Zucker was a former Assistant Chief of Medicine at Beth Israel Medical Center, NY. Dr. Zucker was the developer of the music therapy program in associa
 NICHOLS--Gouverneur M., of Redding, CT formerly of New Canaan, died July 14th, 2006 after a brief illness. A memorial service will be held at 11AM Wednesday, July 26th, 2006 at St. Marks Episcopal Church, 111 Oenoke Ridge, New Canaan. Donation in his memory may be sent to ICU/ CCU Departmen
 VENKATASWAMY-Govindappa, M.D. on July 7th, 2006, at the age of 87 years, Dr. Venkataswamy passed away in Madurai, India. Dr. V, an Ophthalmologist, was the founder of the Aravind Eye Care System. The ''Aravind Model'' is recognized worldwide for providing high quality, state-ofthe-art eye c
 BLAICHER--Fred M. Died at age 91 in Vero Beach, FL, on July 22nd, 2006. Husband of the late Elizabeth Bouldin Blaicher. Survived by Leah K. Scott of Vero Beach, his children Fred M., Jr. of Vero Beach, Peter B. of Delray Beach, Arthur A. II of Bonita Springs, FL, Christopher Y. of Austin, T
 COOMARASWAMY - Rama. Dr. Rama died suddenly Wednesday. He was 76. He is the son of famed scholar Ananda Kentish Coomaraswamy, former curator of Indian Art at the Boston Museum. His mother Dona Luisa Runstein was a professional photographer known as Lotte Lamas. His wife Bernadette is an att
 ELSTER--Samuel K., M.D., 83, died peacefully July 19th in Santa Rosa, CA. Beloved husband of 61 years to Maxine, devoted father of Charles, Pat, and the late James and Amy. Cherished Zeyde of Tamar, Nicholas and Aiden, loving Uncle Sam to three generations of nieces and nephews, foster fath
 KETCHAM--William Tred well Jr. The Trustees of the Riot Relief Fund have learned with deep regret of the death of our good friend and colleague for over half a century. In 2001 the Trustees awarded our esteemed fellow The Riot Relief Fund Medal of Honor in recognition of his many years of e
 MALECKI--Alfred. 85, on July 23, 2006. Son of the late Dora and Gustav Malecki, loving husband of Zenia Berkon Malecki, devoted father of Sophie and Lee Dichter, loving brother of the late Edith Neumann of Uruguay. A brave refugee from Nazi Germany and successfull publishing executive at Cr
 MORROW--George M. III died July 20 in Chapel Hill, NC, at the age of 88. Born in Birmingham, AL, he graduated from Vanderbilt in 1939 and earned his Masters in Chemical Engineering from MIT in 1941. A WWII officer in the US Navy charged with investigating weaponry advances by the Germans, h
 Thomas J. Manton, a former seven-term United States representative and New York City councilman who was chairman of the powerful Queens Democratic party for the past two decades, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Astoria, Queens. The cause of 
 Walter Allner, the Bauhaus-trained graphic designer and art director of Fortune magazine from 1962 to 1974 who introduced a European Modernist typographic sensibility to American magazine design, died Friday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 97. His death was announced by his wi
 James E. West, who was recalled from office as mayor of Spokane over an Internet gay sex scandal, died on Saturday. He was 55. The cause was complications of recent cancer surgery, according to a family statement issued by the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle.     
 Mako, a distinguished stage and screen actor who was widely regarded as having blazed the trail for Asian-Americans in films, on television and in the theater, died on Friday at his home in Somis, Calif. He was 72. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Shizuko Hoshi, said.     
 ELSTER--Samuel K., M.D., 83, died peacefully July 19th in Santa Rosa, CA. Beloved husband of 61 years to Maxine, devoted father of Charles, Pat, and the late James and Amy. Cherished Zeyde of Tamar, Nicholas and Aiden, loving Uncle Sam to three generations of nieces and nephews, foster fath
 FROST--John ''Jack'' Ben nett95, Charlestown, RI, passed away peacefully at his home on July 19. Born in Brooklyn he and his wife of 70 years, Ann, raised their family in Holliswood, NY. Growing up in Brooklyn Jack was actively involved in Grace Episcopal Church. He attended the US Naval Ac
 LUSKIND--Daniel H. 81, on July 23, 2006. Beloved husband of Frances Luskind. Loving father of Amy Weltman, Roger Luskind and his wife Pamela; dear brother of Judy Cohen, cherished grandfather of Alexandra and Emily. Memorial services Tuesday, 1:30pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at
 MACK--JohnThe Juilliard School mourns the passing of John Mack, one of the most distinguished oboe performers and teachers of our time. As the principal oboist of the Cleveland Orchestra, he helped set the standard for orchestral oboe performance in the United States and around the world. A
 MALECKI--Alfred85, on July 23, 2006. Son of the late Dora and Gustav Malecki, loving husband of Zenia Berkon Malecki, devoted father of Sophie and Lee Dichter, loving brother of the late Edith Neumann of Uruguay. A brave refugee from Nazi Germany and successfull publishing executive at Crai
 MANTON--Thomas J., The Parkside Group deeply mourns the passing of our dear friend and mentor Thomas J. Manton, a distinguished United States Marine, New York City Police Officer, New York City Council Member, United States Representative, and Chair of the Queens County Democratic Organizat
 MEISTER -- Bertram, M.D. Respected Yonkers Dermatologist for over 41 years and World War II veteran died peacefully at home on July 24, surrounded by his loving wife Arlene, adoring daughters Lynn and Barbara, devoted sons-in-law Seth and Jean-Marc, and cherished grandchildren Stephanie, Da
 RAYNES--ArthurWe mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Arthur Raynes, an outstanding trial lawyer from Philadelphia and a leader of the Bar. He was wise, kind and considerate. He will be missed. Condolences to his wife Diane, his five children and four grandchildren. Gair, Gair, Co
 SLOOFMAN--Richard A. Age 49, of River Vale, NJ. Struggled with a smile to the premature end. Beloved husband of Cheryl (nee Grossman). Cherished son of Lois Betty Weenick Sloofman and the late Joseph. Devoted father of Scott and Jake. Dear brother of Harry Sloofman, John Sloofman and his wi
 ZUCKER--Gary, MD.he entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and former colleague, Gary Zucker, MD. Gary served with great distinction as a member of the hospital's staff in the Department of Medicine for over 50 years until his retir
 H. Freeman Matthews Jr., a Foreign Service officer who helped lay the groundwork for the 1978 Camp David Peace Accords, which brought an end to three decades of conflict between Israel and Egypt, died Saturday in Washington. He was 78. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife of 
 John Mack, who was the principal oboist of the Cleveland Orchestra from 1965 to 2001 and who reigned as dean of American oboists for several decades, died on Sunday in Cleveland. He was 78. The cause was complications of treatment for brain cancer, his son John Richard Mack said.   
 ELSTER--Samuel K., MD. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a long-standing colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Elster began his affiliation with Mount Sinai in the 1940's, receiving training in Medicine, Surgery and Pathology. He specializ
 FELCHER--Martin W. Esq., 74 at home Tuesday July 25. Beloved husband of Elinor Friedman Felcher, loving father of daugthers Pamela (Mike deVroom) & Marjorie (Gregg Newman) and grandfather of Katie Newman. Graduate of Bronx Science and NYU undergrad and law schools. New York attorney for 50 
 HOBLER--Edward Windsor. 89, on July 23, 2006, in Evanston, Illinois. Won many National Senior Squash Championships. Devoted to Princeton, Class of '39. Son of Benton and Bowles Founder, Atherton Hobler. Brother of Herbert W. , '4 4 of Princeton, and the late Virginia Hobler Redpath and Well
 MANTON--Thomas J., The Parkside Group deeply mourns the passing of our dear friend and mentor Thomas J. Manton, a distinguished United States Marine, New York City Police Officer, New York City Council Member, United States Representative, and Chair of the Queens County Democratic Organizat
 McCAFFREY--Raymond, M.D. A leader in gynecologic education and car passed away on July 24. Dr. McCaffrey held many positions at New York Presbyterian Hospital during the past four decades and played an integral role in moving forward the mission of the hospital's Department of Obstetrics an
 MURRAY--Anthony F. of Manhattan and Setauket, L.I. died July 22, 2006 at his apartment. Born Govan Glasgow August 25, 1936. Youngest son of Daniel and Catherine Murray. Following early years in Scotland emmigrated to New York City in the early 1960's. Active in fashion media and sales. Surv
 RUDIN--Fred, 88, beloved husband of Alice, whose marriage for 54 years was a true love affair. Father of Rebecca, Robert & Mitchell, grandfather of Lily, Paul, Jake, Miles, Greg, Ben and Scott, and father-in-law to Alissa, Bonnie and Rob. Born in NYC, Freddy was a WW II veteran who served f
 SCHWARTZ--Irving.Synagogue for the Arts regrets the passing of longtime member and past President Irving Schwartz. May his memory be a blessing. Jonathan Glass, Rabbi Fabian Friedland, Pres. SCHWARTZ--Irving. 96, July 23rd, beloved husband of 41 years to Libby, and the late Lee, dev
 TARSHIS--Julius, D.D.S. The Columbia University College of Dental Medicine notes with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Julius Tarshis, Clinical Professor of Dentistry, on Friday, July 21, 2006. A member of the faculty in the Division of Orthodontics for more than 50 year
 VANDERMADE--James S., 87, on July 20, 2006 in Gladwyne, PA. Graduate of Montclair Academy, Princeton University, and Harvard Graduate School of Business. Served in U.S. Navy from 1941-1946, reaching the rank of Lieutenant Commander. Principal duty, Aide to Vice Admiral Robert L. Ghormley in
 ZAVON--Norton H. On July 25. Husband of Charlotte, father of Deborah and Karen, grandfather of Rachel and Charles Gayner, Julia and Joshua Ehrlich & Lily Ockert, devoted great-grandfather. Brother of Sybil and Leon Gottlieb, uncle to Diane and Robert Glassman and Judith and Andrew Gorran. S
 C. Frederick Mosteller, the founding chairman of Harvard's statistics department and a pioneer in using statistics to analyze an array of topics as disparate as anesthesia, presidential elections and baseball, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 89. The cause of death was sepsis, sai
 Carl M. Brashear, a son of Kentucky sharecroppers who in 1970 became the United States Navy's first black master diver, and whose story was told in the 2000 movie ''Men of Honor,'' died Tuesday in Portsmouth, Va. He was 75. The cause was heart and respiratory failure, said his forme
 Charles W. Bray III, the press secretary for Secretary of State William P. Rogers during tumultuous times in the Nixon administration, died Sunday at his home in Milwaukee. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his son David said. Mr. Bray, who later became an ambassador, was 
 COHEN--Harold D. Entertainment industry veteran, Harold D. Cohen passed away on July 22 at his home in Beverly Hills. A graduate of Boys High School, Cornell University and Cornell Law School; Agent, Producer & Manager. Beloved husband of Phyllis; father of Jeffrey & Gary Cohen and Lizzy Sh
 FELCHER--Martin. Forty years a friend and advisor. We will miss you dearly. Ed, Barbara, Jim and Maxine Portnof $(6$)FELCHER--Martin W. Wonderful partner, friend, and extraordinary lawyer. For almost 30 years, Marty led Felcher, Fox & Litner, P.C. , as our senior partner with great 
 FRICK--Helmut. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Senior Field Vice President and respected colleague, Helmut Frick. During his 35 years with the Company, Helmut provided clients with faithful and dedic
 FRIEDMAN--Harry J. Died July 25, 2006, age 90. Beloved husband of the late Peggy; devoted father of Carol Moore, Richard (Christine) Friedman and Susan (Ron) Darnell; grandfather of Colin, Kaela, Courtney & Elizabeth; brother of Arthur (Cynthia) Friedman. A leader in the Specialty Advertisi
 MURRAY--Anthony F. of Manhattan and Setauket, L.I. died July 22, 2006 at his apartment. Born Govan Glasgow August 25, 1936. Youngest son of Daniel and Catherine Murray. Following early years in Scotland emmigrated to New York City in the early 1960's. Active in fashion media and sales. Surv
 OLECK--Theodore. It is with deepest sorrow that we mourn the loss of our beloved Uncle Teddy. His courageand optimism were an inspiration to everyone around him. Our love goes out to his devoted wife Sandra, his children Loretta and Neil, Adrienne and David and his adored grandchildren. We 
 RUBIN--Alan J, 79, of Boca Raton, FL and New York, died July 25th, 2006 peacefully after a short illness. He is survived by his loving daughter Sandra Rubin Seibold of Cincinnati, OH, son Mark Rubin of Stockton, CA, and Scott Leach of New York, NY, brother Howard Rubin of New York, loving g
 RUDIN--Fred. Beloved brother-in-law of Randy and Samuel Ketive and Harriet Ketive Lerner and loving uncle to Kimberly and David Sunshine. We all will miss him tremendously. The legacy that he left behind is evident in the quality of his children and grandchildren. His love for all of us and
 ZAVON--Norton. Most loyal friend. My love and condolences to his cherished Charlotte, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Sydel Prince $(6$)ZAVON--Norton H. Our brother, our uncle, our friend. We love you and will miss you. Sybil and Leon Gottlieb Diane and Robert Glass
 McCAFFREY--Raymond Michael, M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Columbia University Medical Center regretfully acknowledges the passing of our esteemed colleague, Raymond Michael McCaffrey, M.D. on Monday, July 24, 2006. Dr. McCaffrey was a revered physician and a cherished 
 George W. Wetherill, a planetary scientist whose studies of the age of Earth's rocks led to theories explaining how freewheeling bodies in space can coalesce to create new planets, died on July 19 at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, his family said.   
 BEGLIN--Richard W. 73, of Searsport, ME and Nassau, the Bahamas, died July 26, 2006 after a long illness. He is survived by his life partner, David N. Berg, his brother, retired New Jersey Superior Court Judge, Edward W. Beglin, Jr., and his sister-in-law Rev. Helen M. Beglin of Westfield, 
 BRODSKY--Nathan. As past partners of the Brodsky Organization as well as family friends, we will always remember the quiet, intelligent presence of Nathan Brodsky in both his business and social life. His memory will linger with us. Our deep sympathy goes to his widow, Shirley, children Dan
 EWALT--John Murry. Born November 7th 1956, departed from home to be with the Lord on July 8th 2006. The broken hearts he left behind included, The love of his life, Lisa ''Sweetpea'' Ewalt, three sons Joseph, Nicholas, and Charles Ewalt; Mother, June Ewalt, Sister Carlene Deglman; one niece
 GIARDINO--Edward, Dr. P. 90, died peacefully at home with his children on July 22, 2006. He is survived by a brother, three daughters, two sons-in-law and three grandchildren. He will be missed by all who knew him and remembered always as a great man, a compassionate physician and a dear fr
 GRACE--Patrick J. Born in Belfast Ireland, of Greenlawn, NY, on July 27, 2006 in his 86th year. Devoted husband of Stella M. (nee Hodgkinson). Loving Father of Father Patrick J.T. Grace, Kathleen M. Schell, Thomas A., Brenda T. Buckner, Stella M. Michael, Geraldine A. Grace-Konanez, Michael
 KARO--Timothy T. Age 38, died at New York Presbyterian Hospital on July 24, 2006, following a courageous battle with AIDS. Tim was born December 29, 1967 in New Britain, CT. He resided in NYC and worked as Training Manager at the New York Helmsley Hotel. He is survived by his mother and sis
 RUBIN--Alan. The laughs, the fun, the memories.Rita and Fred Silberman $(6$)RUBIN--Alan J, 79, of Boca Raton, FL and New York, died July 25th, 2006 peacefully after a short illness. He is survived by his loving daughter Sandra Rubin Seibold of Cincinnati, OH, son Mark Rubin of Stock
 McCAFFREY--Raymond Michael, M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Columbia University Medical Center regretfully acknowledges the passing of our esteemed colleague, Raymond Michael McCaffrey, M.D. on Monday, July 24, 2006. Dr. McCaffrey was a revered physician and a cherished 
 Charles E. Brady Jr., a former space shuttle astronaut and amateur radio enthusiast, died July 23 at his home in Oak Harbor, Wash., the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has reported. He was 54. A cause of death was not given, but an obituary published on the Web site of
 Keith R. DeVries, an archaeologist and authority on the excavation of Gordion, the ancient Turkish city once ruled by King Midas of the golden touch, died on July 16 in Philadelphia. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. From 1977 to 1987, Dr. DeVries directed th
 BRODSKY--Nathan ''Jon'', Husband, Father, Grandfather, and Great-Grandfather, passed away Thursday, July 27th, 2006. A mentor to many, and a role model for those who knew him well, he will be very sorely missed. Jon founded a real estate development company which grew from a small office in
 FELMAN--Rabbi Meir, 93. On July 27. Beloved father of Yehudi, Naomi and Shevi and 9 grandchildren.Formerly Rabbi of Judea Center in Brooklyn, NY. Major supporter of Yeshiva University, N.Y. , and Mevareset Zion Yeshiva in Israel. Funeral on Sunday, July 30 at Shomrei Hadas Chapel, 3803 14th
 GIARDINO--Edward P., M.D. 90, died Peacefully at home with his children on July 22, 2006. He is survived by a brother, three daughters, two sons-in-law and three grandchildren. He will be missed by all who knew him and remembered always as a great man, a compassionate physician and a dear f
 GREENFIELD--Bernard. In loving memory of a most unique man who lived his life fully and well. His wife, Muriel; sons, Kenneth and Blaine; and grandchildren, David, Risa and Shannon will miss him deeply, as will his many friends.       
 McCAFFREY--Raymond Michael, M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Columbia University Medical Center regretfully acknowledges the passing of our esteemed colleague, Raymond Michael McCaffrey, M.D. on Monday, July 24, 2006. Dr. McCaffrey was a revered physician and a cherished 
 Vincent J. Fuller, the lawyer who used the insanity defense to win the acquittal of John W. Hinckley Jr. in the 1981 assassination attempt against President Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday in Derwood, Md. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife of 49 years, Beatrice Fuller
 Louis Winnick, an economist who played a major role in guiding the investments of the Ford Foundation in housing, community renewal and minority enterprise activity from the late 1960's through the 1980's, died yesterday at a hospice in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y
 ABRAMS--Herbert K. Dr. Abrams, a man of untiring spirit and unbridled friendship passed peacefully at home on July 9, after a three-month battle with leukemia. Just two days shy of his 93rd birthday, he left a legacy of love, strength and compassion. His lifetime goal was helping those in n
 BRODERICK--Bishop Edwin B. January 16, 1917-July 2, 2006. On Thursday, August 3, 2006, at noon in St. Patrick's Cathedral His Eminence Edward Cardinal Egan will be the celebrant of a Month's Mind Mass for His Excellency Bishop Edwin B. Broderick.       
 BRODSKY--Nathan. The Marx Family and staff of The Savon Wash Corporation note with deep regret the passing of our friend and associate Nathan. His dignity, caring and advice shall be sorely missed by all who knew him. We send our heartfelt sympathies to Dan and the rest of the Brodsky famil
 CASTELLANOS -- Julio J., July 27th, 2006. Husband of Irene and the late Conchita. Father of Julio, Conchita, Ana Maria and Carlos. Grandfather of 15 and great-grandfather of 18. Brother of the late Alicia Franco. He was an attorney in Havana and a banker in New York. Mass of Christian Buria
 EWALT--John Murry. Born November 7th 1956, departed from home to be with the Lord on July 8th 2006. The broken hearts he left behind included, The love of his life, Lisa ''Sweetpea'' Ewalt, three sons Joseph, Nicholas, and Charles Ewalt; Mother, June Ewalt, Sister Carlene Deglman; one niece
 FELMAN--Rabbi Meir, 93. On July 27. Beloved father of Yehudi, Naomi and Shevi and 9 grandchildren.Formerly Rabbi of Judea Center in Brooklyn, NY. Major supporter of Yeshiva University, N.Y. , and Mevareset Zion Yeshiva in Israel. Funeral on Sunday, July 30 at Shomrei Hadas Chapel, 3803 14th
 FRIEDMAN--Harry J. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Harry J. Friedman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 GILBERT--Leonard, age 78, died on July 27, 2006 at his home in Great Neck after a long and valiant battle with cancer, with his daughter Geri Gilbert and his loving partner Lorraine Lester by his side. He is also survived by his brother Daniel and his son Steven. A native New Yorker and a d
 HIRSCH--Barry. Beloved husband of the late Myra. Cherished father of Victor Terry, Neil, and Nancy. Dear fatherin-law of Ravit. Adored grandfather of Shira Myra. Devoted brother of Eugene and his wife, Dee. Graveside service Sunday, July 30, 11:15 A.M. at the New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinela
 HOBLER--Edward Windsor, 89, on July 23, 2006, in Evanston, Illinois. Won many National Senior Squash championships. Devoted to Princeton, Class of '39. Son of Benton & Bowles Founder, Atherton Hobler. Brother of Herbert W. , '4 4 of Princeton, and the late Virginia Hobler Redpath and Wells 
 KARO--Timothy T. Age 38, died at New York Presbyterian Hospital on July 24, 2006, following a courageous battle with AIDS. Tim was born December 29, 1967 in New Britain, CT. He resided in NYC and worked as Training Manager at the New York Helmsley Hotel. He is survived by his mother and sis
 KARP--Irwin, noted copyright lawyer, died on June 21, 2006, in Reno, NV, of respiratory failure. A lifelong New Yorker, Irwin graduated from City College and Columbia Law School. He served with distinction during WWII, earning a Bronze Star and Purple Heart. Irwin was a tireless advocate fo
 LIEBERMAN - Marvin, 77. Died July 28, 2006. Retired President of Lauren Knitwear. He is survived by his loving wife Gloria, his children Stephanie, Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Gail, grandchildren, Amie and Jesse, as well as his sister and brotherin-law Eleanor and Jerry Schneider, his broth
 MAYER--Gerald M. Jr. 77, died peacefully at home on July 22 in Newbury, NH after battling cancer and Parkinson's disease. Born in Hollywood, CA to Marie A. and Gerald M. Mayer, Sr. He attended Eaglebrook School, Deerfield Academy, and Princeton University. After serving with the Department 
 SILBERMAN--Michael. The only son of the late Berl and Golda Silberman. Died suddenly on Friday, July 28, at the age of 71. He was the beloved brother of Sonia Kaufman, brother-in-law of Isaac Kaufman, loving uncle of Rabbi Lilly Kaufman and Berl Kaufman, and great-uncle of Leora Kaufman and
 SLATKIN--Ely, 85 of Miami Beach Florida, formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Passed away on July 6, 2006. He is survived by his son Alan Slatkin of Delray Beach, Florida.       
 WACHTEL--Jesse, age 72, of Westport, CT, and Wellington, FL, died Friday, July 28, 2006, at the Visiting Nurse and Hospice Care in Stamford, CT, after a long illness. He was born August 30, 1933, in Brooklyn, NY, a son of David Wachtel and Rae (Hertzberg) Wachtel. A graduate of Lawrence (LI
 ZUKERMAN -- Sid Martin. Real estate developer and talent agent, beloved husband of Ada, devoted father of Judy and Herb, most cherished grandfather of Loren, Caryn, David and Sam, and their spouses. Adored greatgrandfather of Allison, Lily, Ryan, Abel, Arielle and Eli. Sid's appetite for li
 GREENFIELD--Bernard. We knew Uncle Bernie as a compassionate, courageous and intelligent man. He touched our lives with his positive attitude and gentleness, and shared his wisdom with us all. We will miss him. Our deepest sympathy to our Aunt Muriel, cousins Kenny and Blaine and families. 
 McCAFFREY--Raymond Michael, M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Columbia University Medical Center regretfully acknowledges the passing of our esteemed colleague, Raymond Michael McCaffrey, M.D. on Monday, July 24, 2006. Dr. McCaffrey was a revered physician and a cherished 
 NEEDELMAN--Stanley D. Of Boca Raton, Florida died July 17, 2006. A resident of Florida for 20 years, Dr. Needelman formerly lived in East Hills, Long Island, NY. Executive Director of Mid-Nassau Guidance Center, Chief of Mental Health Services for Manhattan and Northport VA hospitals. Adjun
 SCHLOSSBERG--Mollie. On July 25, 2006. Wife of the late George. Mother of Elaine and Lynda. Grandmother of Tod and his wife Liz, and Jordan. Great-grandmother of Justin and Julia. Graveside service 2 PM, today, at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ.       
 A. Frank Carven III, who campaigned for the rights of victims of air crashes after his sister and a 9-year-old nephew were killed on Trans World Airlines Flight 800 a decade ago, died Thursday. He was 54. He died of pancreatic cancer at his home in Forestville, Md., his brother Jay 
 Kurt Kreuger, a German-born actor who reluctantly played Nazi soldiers in many films about World War II, died July 12 in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Lynne Riehman, a friend. Mr. Kreuger played German soldiers and Nazi officers in movies like
 BERKOWITZ--Sol. Professor, age 84, on July 29. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Pearl, brother David, and sister Sophie Grayson. Devoted uncle and great-uncle, beloved and esteemed teacher, colleague, mentor and friend. Accomplished Broadway and televison composer, author, and revered 
 BRODSKY--Nathan (Jon). The East Hampton Tennis Club is sad to record the passing of Nathan (Jon) Brodsky, a Member of long standing. Jon's enthusiasm for the game and his gentle unperturbed manner made him many friends among us. Our sympathy extends to his entire family including his wife S
 BYERS--Fred C. Jr. Fred Byers (also known to his many friends and family members as ''Twig'') passed away Friday, July 28, 2006, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a six year battle with leukemia. He was 51 years old. Born in Kansas City, Missouri, to Joyce Morrison Byers and t
 EHRLICH - Joel. Died at home in Denver on July 28 after a year long battle with pancreatic cancer. Joel was a principal of Kessler Ehrlich Investments, an independent film producer, Chairman of the Denver ACLU, member of the Boards of the Rose Foundation, Colorado Film Commission and Boulde
 GILGOFF--Henry. Beloved husband of Alice. Devoted father of Hugh (Christine), John, Matthew, Julie and Joseph. Loving brother of Maxine and the late Nathan. Services Tuesday, 11 a.m. at Temple Sholom, Union Turnpike at 263 St, Floral Park, NY. Donations in his memory to Amyloidosis Research
 HABERMANN--Glenn I. On July 28, 2006. Beloved husband of Barbara, father of Jessica and Brett, son of Edna and the late Kermit Habermann, brother of Jerry and Elliott. Services at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, Monday at 10 a.m. $(6$)HABERMANN --
 LEVINE--Lawrence (Larry). The East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue, our clergy, officers, trustees and members, mourn the loss of our dedicated and beloved Vice President, past Chairman of the Board and active congregant for 30 years. We will greatly miss his intelligent guidance, his le
 LOREN - Seymour. We mourn the passing of Dr. Seymour Loren, of Riverdale, on July 28, at age 89. He was the husband of the late Blanche Morse Loren. He is survived by a daughter Frances Loren Scovronick, of Princeton, NJ, and a son Ralph Loren, of Acton, MA, as well as four grandchildren: S
 MILDWURM--Morris. Passed away on Saturday, July 29, 2006. He was 95 years old. He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Helen, his daughters and son-in-laws, Rita and Rusty Auerbach, Lynne and Lenny Zimmerman, his three grandchildren Amy, Matthew and Corey, and two greatgrandchildren. WWII v
 SIMRING--Noah Lior. Took his own life on his 21st birthday. Adored by his parents, Ruth and James, and sister Mia. He will be remembered as a talented musican, avid audiophile, scientist, barista and poet. Funeral service Monday, July 31, 12:30 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 180 W. 76th St, NYC.
 GREENFIELD--William. July 24, 2006 in Sunrise,FL. Widower to beloved wife Elizabeth, devoted father to Shariann, Michael & Ronald, son-in-law Jeffrey, daughter-in-law Penny, grandfather to Matthew, Bryan, Robert & Elizabeth. A mentor to his children. Dad, you will always be loved.       
