 Bill Crofut, a singer, composer and master banjo player whose style often defied categorization, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Sandisfield, Mass. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Susan. Though he surfaced during the folk-music boom in the late 1950's, Mr. Cro
 Frederick Sommer, whose distinctive images of Surrealist collages, horizonless landscapes, blurry nudes and cameraless abstractions influenced generations of photographers, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Prescott, Ariz. He was 93. Variously described as a gadfly, an eccentric, a pho
 BARBEE-John M., Ph.D. On January 2, 1999. Born Claruge Gayle in Raleigh, N.C. Barbee was preacher, teacher, philosopher and raconteur. As a child prodigy tentpreacher, he barnstormed 22 states, logged 5,000 miles and evangelized one million listeners by age 21. A voracious reader with a kee
 BERCOVICI-Alfred. On January 31, 1999, at age 86. He was a writer, editor and resident of Manhattan. Beloved husband of Lola. Loving father of Jon and father-in-law of Linda. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Amanda. Services Tuesday, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Ams
 ROTH-Daniel. Died January 30, 1999, at Albert Einstein Hospital. He was 45. Mr. Roth was born in New Rochelle, NY, on March 20, 1953. He graduated from Bayside High School in Queens, NY, and attended Hunter College. He worked as a freelance writer. Mr. Roth is survived by his mother Rhoda o
 TAMBURRO-Carlo H., M.D., M.P.H. Age 63, died Friday at his residence in Louisville, KY. He was a native of Caserta, Italy. He was a physician and professor of medicine and pharmacology and toxicology at the University of Louisville Medical School. He was a former professor at the New Jersey
 TOMPKINS-Ralph L. Jr., (''Tim''). Prominent Aviation Insurance Underwriter and Broker, January 29, 1999, age 67, of Little Compton, RI, formerly of Weston, MA, and Bronxville, NY. Husband of Sylvia B. (Buffinton) Tompkins. Father of Ralph L. ''Rip'' Tompkins III, Holly T. Cummings and Linds
 WEINSTEIN-Jack, of Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of Ruth Weinstein, brother of Arnold Weinstein, uncle of Arlene Sherman, Michael and Charles Weinstein. His gentle spirit and devoted caring will be missed by all who had the good fortune of knowing him. Services at ''The Riverside,'' 55 Nor
 Ed Herlihy, a radio announcer whose voice charted the course of World War II for moviegoers, then for the better part of 40 years spoke for Kraft foods on radio and television, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. In his early successes, few could recall his name or
 Huntz Hall, who for 20 years played the slow-witted sidekick of Leo Gorcey in more than 80 ''Bowery Boys,'' ''Dead End Kids'' and ''East Side Kids'' movies, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was cardiac disease, his family said. Rarely, if ever, has a bit
 Mason Walsh, a former publisher of The Arizona Republic and The Phoenix Gazette, died on Saturday of complications from pneumonia. He was 86 and lived in Scottsdale, Ariz. In 1966, he became general manager of the Arizona papers and in 1975 was given the additional job of assistant 
 Former Gov. Mills Edwin Godwin Jr. of Virginia, who rose above his segregationist past to become one of his state's most effective chief executives, died on Saturday in Newport News, Va. He was 84 and lived in Suffolk, Va. Governor Godwin had just been released from Riverside Hospit
 BAUER-Bernice (nee Brown). On Sunday, January 31, 1999. Of Hackensack, N.J., formerly of Paterson, N.J. Beloved wife of Warren G. Bauer, loving mother of Susan B. & Joel L. Bauer and his wife, Janet L. Bauer. Cherished grandmother of Lisa B. Klein and Carolyn A. Bauer. Services 10:30 A.M. t
 BERNSTEIN-Michael C. Died January 31, 1999 at 92. Founding law partner of Bernstein, Weiss, Coplan, Weinstein and Lake in NYC. Survived by daughters, Davida Goldberg, Holly Bristow, Deborah Berman; six grandchildren and two sisters, Esther Bernstein and Myrt Morris. He will be greatly misse
 BLOOMINGDALE-Lyman G. We deeply mourn the passing of Lyman Bloomingdale, a dedicated member of the American Friends of the Hebrew University's Council of Trustees and an honorary governor of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Mr. Bloomingdale was a devoted supporter of the Jewish National 
 BRICKFIELD-Francis X. Died on January 29, 1999. Of Brooklyn, NY. Age 75. Predeceased by wife Helen Boyton Brickfield. Survived by children Elizabeth, Francis, Paul, Loretto, Helen, Neil and George. Also survived by 14 grandchildren and eldest niece Roberta Brennan. Former President of The B
 FISHER-Paul, age 92 on January 30, 1999. Mourned by his daughters Diana (Howard Stevens) and Toby (Alan Uger), sister Bertha Abrams, brother Murray Fisher, grandchildren Rebecca and Elizabeth Stevens, Tom and Dan Uger, nieces, nephews and friends. Services 11:30 AM on Tuesday, Plaza Memoria
 GORDON-Jack. Beloved husband of Marilyn, loving father of Laurie and Nathaniel, Richard and Helaine, Jeffrey and Kim, cherished grandfather of Madison, Chloe, and Alexandra. A giant amongst men, loved and respected by all who were priviledged to know him. Services 1 P.M Tuesday at ''Gutterm
 GUTZMER-Alfred A. Age 93. Of Evanston, IL., formerly of Wilmette, IL and New York City, passed away January 12, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Catherine R. Gutzmer. Loving father of Peter E. (Lynn Meyer) Gutzmer. Proud grandfather of Steven and Andrew of Wilmette, IL. Born in Rochester, 
 HERLIHY-Edward J. January 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Fredi. Loving father of Lori Selden, Jeannie, Donald and Stephen Herlihy. Cherished grandfather of Tara Heimberger, Brian Bergen and Graham Lehr, Taylor and Logan Herlihy. Cherished greatgrandfather of Jake Heimberger. Mass of Christian
 JORDAN-William B. III of Pinehurst, N.C. and Bridport, Vermont, died on Friday, January 29, 1999 at First Health Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 78 years old. Mr. Jordan was born in Pine Plains, New York, graduated from the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Connecticut and Ya
 RETAN-George Walter, 78, on February 1, 1999, of cancer at New York Hospital. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Wood Retan & devoted father of Kathy and Betsy and proud grandfather of Isabel Yao Meyers. Much loved brother of Jeannette R. Jarecke and uncle of Peter, Ann and George. Publisher, edi
 SALZBERG-William. The Kaplan Comprehensive Cancer Center mourns the loss of our friend and supporter, Bill Salzberg. May Hashem watch over him. He will always remain in our hearts. Michael R. Stoler, Chairman Lay Advisory Board Rita J. and Stanley H. Kaplan Comprehensive Cancer Center NYU S
 VIDOCKLER-Murray. At the funeral service for Murray in Florida on January 31, we, the brothers Arthur and Bernard, and the sister Gertrude Toby, expressed to all their gratitude for his life. We spoke of the pain at the loss. The service led by Murray's wife and children filled the chapel w
 Alfred Edward Luders Jr., an innovative boat designer and racer who built the America's Cup yacht Weatherly, died Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 89. Mr. Luders, known as Bill, blended an avocation, racing sailboats, with his vocation as director of the Luders Marine Co
 Elias Newman, a painter active in New York and Israel and best known for his watercolor landscapes, died yesterday at Beekman Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Newman was born in Poland in 1903 and immigrated with his family to New York when he was 10. He 
 Mario A. Zacchini, the last surviving member of the original generation of human cannonballs, whose routine employment was being explosively propelled from a cannon across a circus tent into a net, succumbed to old age on Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 87 and lived 
 BLOOM-Robert A. It is with the most profound sense of loss and sadness that the entire staff of the Beth Abraham Health Services' community record the passing of our dear, cherished friend and colleague, Bob Bloom. Devoted to his family and dedicated to our patients, Bob's wisdom, guidance 
 DEUTSCH-Henry. The Association of Legal Aid Attorneys, UAW Local 2325, mourns the untimely loss of its longstanding member, Henry Deutsch. We shall sorely miss Henry, whose warmth, good humor, and perpetual smile touched all who knew him. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Lynn 
 GEER-Earl B., Jr. The partners and employees of Physicians World Communications Group note with sorrow the passing of Earl B. Geer Jr., one of the founding partners of the Company. Earl was a leader in medical communications and the publisher of important medical journals, including Primary
 GLAZIER-Henry Simon, Jr. On January 27, 1999, age 88, died of natural causes at his home in New York City, New York. He attended the Collegiate School in New York, class of '28, the Phillips Exeter Academy, class of '28 and graduated from Harvard, class of '31. After several years of workin
 GRAINE-Arthur B. On February 1, 1999. Survived by his wife, Ruth Plotnick - Graine. Contributions may be made to Parkinson Fund.       
 KAISER-Alexander, of Walnut Creek, CA, on January 29, 1999. Longtime resident of Rockville Centre. He will be missed by Jeanne, the ''love of his life'' and his wife for 55 years; by his children, Jan Swan, Ellen Kaiser, and Michael Kaiser, MD; by their partners, Rick Swan, Max Elbaum, and 
 MEILKE-Peter A. February 1, 1999. Beloved husband of Charlene. Devoted father of Damon. Loving son of Helen and the late Arthur Meilke. Loving brother of Kay Meilke. He was a graduate of Whitworth College, Spokane, Washington, University of Michigan Law School and New York University, later
 NEWMAN-Elias. On February 1, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian Newman, dear uncle and great uncle. A renowned contemporary artist. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him, loved him and his works. Services are today February 3rd at 1 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and 
 RAINEY-Harry G., M.D. We note with sorrow the passing of one of our Founding Physicians, a highly revered family practitioner. His medical career spanned almost 50 years and represented the true spirit of patient care. This well-respected physician often served several generations of an ent
 SAXE-Andrew, 50. February 1, New York, of brain cancer. Beloved husband of Allison Broadhead Saxe, devoted father of Adam and Madeleine, son of Edward and Anthea Saxe of Westport, CT, brother of Christopher Saxe. A graduate of Millbrook School, New College (AB), and Columbia (M.A.). Andrew 
 SHEAR-Admiral Harold E. (USN ret). The members of The Nature Conservancy's Mashomack Preserve Board of Trustees record their deep sorrow at his passing and express sympathy to his wife and family; forever grateful to him as a great leader, organizer and friend whose untiring efforts were in
 SUSSMAN-Seymour S. On January 23, 1999. Beloved father of David Sussman and his wife Pilar, Deborah Steckler and her husband Alan, William Ford-Sussman and his wife Mary and Anne Sussman; grandfather of Abigail and Timothy; brother of Helen Borger.       
 WALLACH-Douglas, age 45, died suddenly January 31, 1999. Adored husband of Aggi. Cherished father of Elyse and Rachel. Darling son of Mildred. Beloved brother of Jeffrey. Loved by all whose lives he touched. He will be missed forever Carl Parker-loving companion of Mildred Wallach       
 EDER-George J. (1900-1998) Sgt. GJE, 16, survived fireFrance 1917. At 98: proud to look forward to a '99 Legion d'Honneur-look back on his work, pouring forth his skills abroad-to cease upon the midnight with no pain (12-23-98). His 4 children look forward to a memorial dinner 2-2799, 5 pm-
 Paul Mellon, the patrician collector who tenaciously turned philanthropy into his personal art form, above all through his stewardship of the National Gallery in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Upperville, Va. He was 91. A son of enormous wealth, Mr. Mellon turned from his
 Warren E. Miller, a political science professor who was one of the foremost authorities on Americans' voting behavior and their electoral politics, died on Saturday at Scottsdale Healthcare Osborn hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 74 and lived in Scottsdale. The cause was complic
 Adm. Harold E. Shear, retired, a onetime Vice Chief of Naval Operations and veteran submariner who helped build the nation's undersea armada into a powerful nuclear force, died on Monday at his home in Groton Long Point, Conn. He was 80 and, his family said, had long been ill. For 2
 John S. Service, the first of the ''old China hands'' purged from the State Department in the McCarthy era, died yesterday in Oakland, Calif. He was 89. As a young Foreign Service officer in World War II, he filed prescient reports on the rival forces battling the occupying Japanese
 Franklin Keysar, a production stage manager for more than 20 Broadway shows, died on Jan. 25 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, his publicist said. Mr. Keysar, who was born in Warren, N.H., graduated from the Bo
 Jacob Reingold, a leader in caring for the aged who laid groundwork for the nationwide observance of Grandparents Day, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. At his death, Mr. Reingold was vice chairman of the Hebrew Home for
 Joseph Kingsbury-Smith, a former national editor and chief foreign writer of Hearst Newspapers, died on Wednesday at his home in Waterford, Va. He was 90. Mr. Kingsbury-Smith served the Hearst empire for seven decades, starting in 1924 as a 16-year-old office boy at its wire agency,
 AMKRAUT-William. Age 83, of Delray Beach, FL and Bethpage, NY. Born October 28, 1915, died of natural causes. Survived by his loving wife of 57 years, Harriet Potoker Amkraut, and his brother, Jacob Amkraut; daughter Alynne Amkraut Krull and son-in-law Albert of Chappaqua, NY; grandchildren
 ARLUCK-Wendy. The Broadway Democrats extend our heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed colleague and District Leader, Curtis Arluck, on the loss of his cherished sister. Luis Roman, President       
 BANDES-Joseph, M.D. Beloved father, grandfather and great grandfather. Physician, healer and friend, past away this Thursday, Feb. 4, 1999. Joseph followed his diverse interests with passion and a zest for knowledge. Researcher, Rock Hound, Botanist, Philosopher and World War II Veteran. We
 BAZ-Carlos. With great sadness and fond memories, we mourn the loss of our special friend and business associate. His knowledge and professionalism will forever be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Miguel and Christiane Aleman       
 BERAKHA-David, February 2, 1999. Husband of Esther. Father of George J. Beraka, M.D., and his wife, Judy, and the late Victoria. Grandfather of Scott, David and Michael. Born in Beirut, Lebanon, immigrated to Buenos Aires as a young man and later settled in the United States, becoming a sen
 CONNOR-Hugh F. Of New City, N.Y. On Jan. 24, 1999 in Tijuana, Mexico. He was Public Relations Executive & Senior Consultant at the U.N., Bureau Chief with United Press International in Newark, N.J., and National Press Editor for UPI, Editor and Reporter for the Gannett Newspapers. Survived 
 FEIL-Louis. Thank you for the knowledge that you allowed me to learn from your great wisdom. Your guidance will be with me forever. Our deepest sympathy to Gertrude, his wife, and children Jeffrey, Marilyn, Judy and Carole and brother Seymour. Herbert and Joan Graff FEIL-Louis. The 
 GOLD-Henry. Of Lake Worth FL, formerly of Great Neck NY. On February 3, 1999 at the age of 80. Beloved husband of Rose. Devoted father of Glenn and Anne, and Neil and Ellen. Cherished Papa of Jeffrey and Jason. Loving brother of Bea Mendl. His selfless love and devotion to his family will a
 HIRSCHFELD-Herbert Seixas, Jr. Died on February 2, 1999 at the age of 70. Son of the late Herbert & Carolyn Hirschfeld, Sr. Beloved father of Susan B. and Linda A. & Barbara and Nicholas McCormick. Former husband of Allison B. A good friend to all he knew. Family will be receiving friends o
 KAJI-Deepak, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai NYU Medical Center and Health System deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Deepak Kaji, M.D., Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief of the Renal
 KOCH-Lester Joseph. Age 86. Died on February 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Eleanor, loving father of Carol and Jane and Brad Morse. Devoted grandfather of Gregory and Tracy. Cherished uncle, great-uncle and friend. Funeral services 10AM on Friday at Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Avenue, Larc
 KRAMER-Ben, 85, a 27 year resident of Davie, Florida, coming from New York, died Wednesday, February 3, 1999. He played professional basketball for the original Celtics, where he was known as ''Red'', and coached for the first Baltimore Bullets. Survived by wife, Vivian; son, Stephen of Bal
 LESSEN-Dr. Martin. Rochester, NY, died January 24, 1999 at age 78. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth of Rochester, daughters Margot Lessen Brody of Wayland, MA, Deborah Lessen Calomino of NYC, son Dr. David Lessen of NYC; sisters Anna Needleman and Sarah Nichols; grandchildren, other rel
 MARX-Harold. We deeply regret the passing of our former president, Mr. Harold Marx. His enthusiasm and vision helped propel the growth of the Holliswood Jewish Center and the Holliswood community. As one of the true leaders of the past generation, he will be sorely missed. Young Israel of H
 MILLER-Richard J., on February 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Suzanne. Father of E. Scott, Lisa and Sondra. Son of Irene and the late Richard. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Friday 7-9PM and Saturday 2-5PM and 7-9PM. Interment Erie, PA. Memorial service a
 REINGOLD-Jacob. Beloved husband, for 47 years, of Estelle, loving father of David, Joel, Daniel and Michael Reingold, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, dear brother of Chaim, the late Samuel Reingold and Devorah Chajut. Services will 
 RICHMAN-Dr. Howard. We are all greatly saddened to learn of the untimely passing of our friend, colleague, and former Chief of Surgery, Dr. Howard Richman, on February 3, 1999. Following completion of his surgical training, Dr. Richman remained at NYU where he rose to the level of Professor
 SHEPPARD-Sidney. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Sidney, brother-in-law, uncle and friend. He will be missed by us all, but he will live on in our hearts. Virginia Sheppard Toni, Ed and Mary Piesman SHEPPARD - Sidney. Deepest sympathy to our darling JM, Bernice, and family o
 WILLIAMS-Edward P., 92, of Crosstrees Hill Rd, Essex, CT died Monday, February 1. He was the husband of Linda Perkins Williams. He was born in Cleveland, OH on January 2, 1907, son of the late Edward and Mary (Raymond) Williams, grandson of Edward Porter Williams co-founder of Sherwin Willi
 WINSTON-Joseph. Of Scarsdale, NY, and Lakeville, CT. Age 81. Died on February 4, 1999. Beloved husband of the late May. Devoted father of Allan and David. Fatherin-law of Diana and Deborah. Grandfather of Joshua and Julia. He practiced law in New York for fifty-five years. He graduated Phi 
 WOLFF-Ezra A., M.D. The membership of the Medical Society of the County of Queens express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved colleague and friend, Ezra A. Wolff, M.D., on February 2, 1999. A distinguished and dedicated physician he served the Society well for over 50 years
 Dr. John Frosch, a New York psychoanalyst and author who founded The Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association, died in his sleep on Feb. 2 at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 89. Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Dr. Frosch graduated from the City College of New
 Erich Hartmann, a photographer who documented the remains of the Nazi death camps, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Hartmann immigrated to the United States with his family in the 1930's. He served in the army in Europe in Wor
 Morton J. Mitosky, a Broadway lawyer and colorful backstage fixture who outlived nearly everyone of his own era, died yesterday at Cabrini Hospital Hospice. He was 91 and lived in Ventnor, N.J. In his heyday, Mr. Mitosky, an adviser to Broadway investors, had a behind-the-scenes par
 Norman Bluhm, a prominent member of what has often been called the ''second generation'' of Abstract Expressionist painters, died on Wednesday at his home in East Wallingford, Vt. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Meyer Raphael Rubenstein, a friend. Mr. Bluhm's wo
 BERNSTEIN-Lawson F. Feburary 29, 1920-January 25, 1999. New York City Attorney. Died in Pittsburgh, Pa. Survived by his sons, Dr. Lawson F. Bernstein Jr. (Linda), Richard D. Bernstein (Terese), and daughter Katherine Fredland. Also survived by brother Merton C. Bernstein. and four grandchil
 CRAFT-S. Allen, age 84, of Moorestown, NJ (formerly Bernardsville, NJ) on February 4, 1999. Memorial services will be held on Tuesday, February 9, 1999 at St. Bernard's Episcopal Church, Bernardsville 11:00 A.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his name may be sent to the church, Clarem
 FROSCH-John. International Universities Press mourns the death of our most esteemed author John Frosch, M.D. and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Ann and his family. A noted psychoanalyst, Dr. Frosch was the founder of the Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association as well 
 GILLETTE-Stanley C. On Thursday, February 4. Beloved husband of Joan, adored father of Richard, Patty, and her husband Steve Norman. Loving grandfather of Kyle, Blake, Holly and Jasara. Greatgrandfather of Zachary. He served as a Captain in the Medical Corp in WWII. From 1963-1975 he was Pr
 GLENN-Norman R. The officers and directors of City Innovation mourn the passing of Norman R. Glenn, Founder and Chairman/ CEO of The Community Action Network, our affiliate since 1995. His energy, persistence and indomitable spirit created and sustained a unique information system focused o
 HEATH-Gordon A.T. Died at home on Wednesday, February 3, 1999. Devoted husband of Florence (Peggy) Hart Heath and greatly loved brother of Alan and Vernon. He is also survived by two nephews and one niece, Philip, Paul and Jane. A Thanksgiving service at Christ Church, (chapel) Greenwich, o
 HELD-James D., age 39, died February 4, 1999 of a brain tumor after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sharon. Adored son of Barbara Held and Dr. Barry Held. Devoted brother of Patricia Grunebaum. Cherished uncle of Sebastian, Annabel and Charlotte Grunebaum, Brett and Lindsey Abrams. Inter
 KAJI-Deepak, MD. The members of the Medical Staff of the Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center mourn the sudden and untimely loss of our very dear friend and esteemed colleague Deepak Kaji, M.D. His warmth, compassion, wisdom and keen intelligence will be sorely missed. We extend our heartf
 MILLER-Richard J. The Board of Managers and residents of the Columbia Condominium deeply mourn the untimely passing of our President, Richard Miller. His commitment and tirelessly selfless efforts on behalf of the building and its residents have made a major impact on all of us and he will 
 MITOSKY-Morton. On Feb. 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Joy. Loving father of Dina and the late Alan. Father-in-law of Elga. Stepfather of Stephanie Klein. Adoring grandfather of Sarah Mitosky. He is also survived by a sister Ruth Frankenheimer. Services Sunday 1:15 PM ''The Riverside'', W. 76t
 NEWMAN-Elias. It is with great sadness that the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art mourn the passing of a true friend. His support will long be remembered. Uzi Zucker, Chairman Professor Mordechai Omer, Director and Chief Curator       
 REINGOLD-Jacob. Beloved husband, for 48 years, of Estelle, loving father of David, Joel, Daniel and Michael Reingold, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, dear brother of Chaim, Devorah Chajut, and the late Samuel Reingold. Following fun
 RICHMAN-Howard, MD. The New York University School of Medicine and its Alumni Association are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Dr. Howard Richman, Class of 1953, Professor of Clinical Surgery; Attendant Surgeon at Tisch Hospital; President Emeritus of the NYU School of Medicine Alum
 WINSTON-Joseph. Of Scarsdale, NY, and Lakeville, CT. Age 81. Died on February 4, 1999. Beloved husband of the late May. Devoted father of Allan and David. Fatherin-law of Diana and Deborah. Grandfather of Joshua and Julia. He practiced law in New York for fifty-five years. He graduated Phi 
 WORTHINGTON-John G. Of Flushing, NY. Feb. 4, 1999. Survived by his wife Anita, three sisters, Margaret Carpenter, Madeline Reimer, Marie Rodas, nieces & nephews. Friends welcome to call at the Richard H. Keenan Funeral Home, 7501 Pittsford-Palmyra Rd., Fairport, Sunday 3-5PM. Private servic
 The folk and pop singer Baris Manco, who had great cultural influence in Turkey and became one of this country's most beloved figures, died here on Monday. He was 56 and lived in Istanbul. The cause was a heart attack, relatives said. Tens of thousands of people, many in tea
 Herman (Pat) Herst Jr., who was so enthralled by a stamp he saw in a Manhattan store window when he was 7 that he grew up to be the stamp world's most revered dealer, auctioneer and collector and by far its most garrulous booster and most prolific authority, died on Jan. 31 at his home in B
 Nicholas Krushenick, a New York painter whose bold, posterlike paintings were often called abstract Pop, died Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Krushenick was born in New York
 BERGER-Rabbi Abraham. On Tuesday, February 2, in Methodist Hospital, Brooklyn, at the age of 90. Burial was in Har-M'Nuchot, Jerusalem on February 4. Ordained in Jerusalem at the Rabbinical Yeshiva of Meah-Shearim under the leadership of Rabbi Jacob Isaac Vachtvogel in 1940, he lectured the
 CORSON-Richard. On January 13th, 1999. Eminent theatre makeup authority, teacher and author of ''Stage Makeup'' in current use, with the 9th edition forthcoming. His essential reference works include ''Fashions in Hair: The First 5000 Years,'' ''Fashions in Makeup: From Ancient to Modern Ti
 DEMETER-Lee. Age 81, died on January 27, 1999 Beloved husband of the late Mary Colivas Demeter. Adoring father of Anne Demeter Leidner of Glenview, IL. Long time resident of Great Neck, NY. Resided in Arlington Heights, IL. Dr. Demeter held graduate degrees from Harvard University, Boston U
 FROSCH-MD., John. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of John Frosch, MD, distinguished and esteemed Director Emeritus of the Department of Psychiatry. Dr. Frosch was affiliated with Brookdale for over thirty years. Our condolences to his ber
 GENGHOF-Christian H. The partners, associates and staff of Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, P.C. note with sadness the death of Christian H. Genghof, a longtime partner of its predecessor firm, Alexander & Green, where he was a specialist in the field of trusts and estates law for many y
 HARTMANN-Erich. 76. Died of heart failure February 4, 1999 in NYC after sustaining a heart attack. A photojournalist, he joined Magnum Photos in 1951 and served as President. He was renowned for his work in the arts and his interpretation of the industrial landscape. His one man exhibitions
 HELD-James D., age 39, died February 4, 1999 of a brain tumor after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sharon. Adored son of Barbara Held and Dr. Barry Held. Devoted brother of Patricia Grunebaum. Cherished uncle of Sebastian, Annabel and Charlotte Grunebaum, Brett and Lindsey Abrams. Inter
 KLEIN-Melvin M. Attorney and former Queens County Republican Leader. Died on February 5, 1999, in Delray Beach, FL, of pneumonia. He was 85. Beloved husband and companion of 51 years to Gladys. Devoted father of Irwin, Fred and Dan. Loving father-inlaw of Charlene, Marcia and Debra. Doting 
 LARSEN-C. Peter. Died peacefully at home on February 4, 1999, too soon, at age 62. He was the beloved husband and soulmate of Anne and the proud and loving father of sons Mark of White Plains and Paul, with wife Susan, of Florence, SC. He was devoted to his step-children and their families:
 MARX-Harold. On February 3, 1999 at age 77. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted of father of Arlene and Jay. Cherished grandfather of Lisa, Jackie, Steven, Eva, and Jonathan. Great grandfather of Robert and Joshua. Loving brother of Roz and devoted son of Esther. Because of his warmth, humo
 MAUSER-Francis T., 64, of New York City, passed away suddenly on January 19 in Vero Beach, FL., where he was a winter resident for the past 15 years. Born January 27, 1934, Mr. Mauser recently retired as Archivist of the General Services Office of Alcoholics Anonymous. Survivors include his
 McKESSON - Malcolm Forbes. The famous Malcolm F. McKesson passed away on February 5, 1999, after a long illness. His wife, Madeline M. Mason, a famous poet, predeceased him. He was a founder of the Composers, Authors and Artists of America and its national Treasurer for many years and Presi
 MITOSKY-Morton. On Feb. 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Joy. Loving father of Dina and the late Alan. Father-in-law of Elga. Stepfather of Stephanie Klein. Adoring grandfather of Sarah Mitosky. He is also survived by a sister Ruth Frankenheimer. Services Sunday 1:15 PM ''The Riverside'', W. 76t
 REINGOLD-Jacob. Beloved husband, for 48 years, of Estelle, loving father of David, Joel, Daniel and Michael Reingold, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, dear brother of Chaim, Devorah Chajut, and the late Samuel Reingold. Following fun
 ROSSI-Neil J. On February 4, 1999. Survived by his loving wife, Mina M. Rossi. Dear father of Neil Rossi and Diane Taylor. Devoted grandfather of Christopher and Matthew Rossi, Nicholas and Megan Taylor. Dear father-in-law of Paul Taylor and Jody Rossi. Served with the US Navy in the Pacifi
 SCHALER-Otto G.J., 79, died January 30. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth S. Schaler of Alexandria, VA; his sister, Lottie Gerstel of Salisbury, CT; three sons and four grandchildren. Memorial service at Mt. Vernon Unitarian Church, Alexandria, VA, February 21, 3 PM       
 SISKIN-Benjamin. Formerly from the Bronx and recently residing in Santa Monica, died peacefully on February 4th at the age of ninetyfive. Beloved father of Alan Siskin and Amy and Warren Ashmann, granddad of Adam & Katy, former husband of Rose. He was a good and gentle man. We will miss him
 WALLACH-Jesse. Age 90. Of Manhattan, on January 20. He joined the Mackenzie Brigade, allied with the Lincoln Brigade, to fight fascism in the Spanish Civil War. He also fought in WWII, was a tireless worker for social justice, and a world traveler. Loving husband to the late Clara and forme
 WOLFF-Ezra A., M.D. On February 2, 1999, in North Branford, CT. Dr. Wolff, 92, practiced surgery in Forest Hills and at Queens Hospital Center, Booth and Flushing Hospitals. Active through his career in the Queens County Medical Society, Queensboro TB and Health Ass'n., Queensboro Surgical 
 Wassily Leontief, who won the Nobel prize in economics in 1973 for his analyses of America's production machinery, showing how changes in one sector of the economy can exact changes all along the line, affecting everything from the price of oil to the price of peanut butter, died Friday nig
 Ben Margolis, a California lawyer known for his spirited counseling and defense of movie-industry figures who had been blacklisted, died on Jan. 27 in Portland, Ore. He was 88. His death was reported on Saturday by The Associated Press. In the early 1950's, after Mr. Margoli
 King Hussein of Jordan, who died yesterday at 63, successfully straddled two worlds in more than four tumultuous decades on the throne. Cautious by instinct and habit, King Hussein took pride in his Western impulses and his Arab roots, though he acknowledged that the combination som
 Josef Meier, who brought his Passion play to the United States from Germany in 1932 and continued in the role of  Jesus for six decades, died on Jan. 31  in Spearfish, S.D. He was 94. Mr. Meier was the seventh generation of his family to portray Jesus in the drama, remaining in the 
 FROSCH-John, M.D. The Editorial and Administrative Boards of the Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association mourn the loss of John Frosch, M.D., the Journal's founding editor, who served with distinction from 1953-1972. We are committed to maintaining the standards of scholarly exce
 GENGHOF-Christian H. The partners, associates and staff of Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, P.C. note with sadness the death of Christian H. Genghof, a longtime partner of its predecessor firm, Alexander & Green, where he was a specialist in the field of trusts and estates law for many y
 HARTMANN-Erich. 76. Died of heart failure February 4, 1999 in NYC after sustaining a heart attack. A photojournalist, he joined Magnum Photos in 1951 and served as President. He was renowned for his work in the arts and his interpretation of the industrial landscape. His one man exhibitions
 HELD-James D., age 39, died February 4, 1999 of a brain tumor after a long illness. Beloved husband of Sharon. Adored son of Barbara Held and Dr. Barry Held. Devoted brother of Patricia Grunebaum. Cherished uncle of Sebastian, Annabel and Charlotte Grunebaum, Brett and Lindsey Abrams. Inter
 HUSSEIN-His Majesty King Hussein of Jordan. The Trustees of the U.S. Committee for United World Colleges extend their deepest sympathies to Queen Noor of Jordan, President of United World Colleges, and her family on the death of King Hussein. His rule and the educational work of the Queen s
 JUPITER-George. Born in Vienna on a Wednesday, died in New Haven on a Friday, George Jupiter. He lived a full life and was much loved. Among those who will miss him are his wife, Elaine, his daughter, Claudia and his beloved grandson, Jonathan Merson.       
 LEVY-Jacob A. On Saturday, February 6, 1999. Beloved husband of Paulette. Father of Sarah and Nessim, father-in-law of Diane and Ralph. Grandfather of Pamela, Robert, Deborah, Lisa, Jennifer and Richard. Great-grandfather of Melissa and Jordan. Brother of Isaac, David, Penina and Salomon. S
 MILLMAN-Albert B. The entire Saint Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family notes with sadness the passing of Albert B. Millman, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Howard Millman, M.D., attending physician in our Department of Psychiatry. To Howard, his family, and all of his f
 MOREHEAD-Gould. August 22, 1927-January 21, 1999. Born and raised in Montclair, NJ, he lived to see the world. Learned in classrooms, clubhouses and kitchens far and near, he lived to teach his grandchildren to think big picture. Sharing in the sorrows of life, he lived to share a laugh at 
 NASS-Jack. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Jack Nass. To his wife Roslyn and the entire family our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President NASS-Jacob. On February 5, 1999
 PARNESS-Harry. Of Boynton Beach, FL, passed away February 6, 1999. He is survived by his beloved wife, Vivienne Brezin Parness, daughter, Carol Ann Davis, and her husband, Ronald Lee Davis, granddaughter, Robin Laffer, and her husband, Steven Laffer, great-grandsons, Jarod and Brandon Laffe
 REARDON-Frank E. On February 5, 1999. WW II veteran, Sergeant Major, U.S.A.F; 31 years with AT&T. Dearly loved husband of Suzanne. Loving step-father of John Russell. Devoted brother of the late Jack. Also survived by his sister-in-law Rose and their children Catherine, Daniel and Donna. Fr
 SEELAV-Samuel F. On February 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Jeanne. Loving brother of Beatrice Stecher. Dear uncle of Jo Stecher and Joel Simon. Service Monday 12:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory to City of Hope.       
 HARTOGS-Renatus, M.D. Psychiatrist, Ph.D., Holocaust survivor, mentor, author, artist, father, grandfather and life partner; the only doctor to diagnose Lee Harvey Oswald will be beloved forever by friends, patients and life companion; will always be remembered for his courage, wit, wisdom,
 Armand Schwerner, a poet whose work inspired an extraordinary range of dance, performance and theatrical presentations, died on Thursday at his home on Staten Island. He was 71. His son, Adam, said the cause was cancer. In more than three decades Mr. Schwerner published abou
 Marius Schoon, an opponent of apartheid who had been fighting an amnesty application by the police spy who killed Mr. Schoon's wife and daughter with a mail bomb, died here on Sunday. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, said Hugh Lewin, a friend who spent seven years in prison wit
 Norman R. Glenn, the founder and publisher of two advertising and broadcasting magazines, died on Friday in New York City. He was 89. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Roberta. In the 1930's, Mr. Glenn held executive positions at WLS, a Chicago radio 
 CASON-Grover Allen. Deceased February 4, 1999 due to massive heart failure. An eighteen year veteran of the NYC Fire Department, stationed at the Engine 1, Ladder 24 in Midtown Manhattan. Honorably discharged from the US Air Force Reserve in 1984 where he served as a Medical Technician, dec
 CLARK-Forrester Andrew (Tim), of South Hamilton, MA, died on Friday, Feb. 5th, just short of his 93rd birthday. Beloved husband of the late Katharine Burrage Clark and Emily Sears Lodge Clark. He is survived by nine children, 31 grandchildren and sixteen greatgrandchildren. In lieu of flowe
 CRAMES-Barbara S. Beloved wife of Charles, loving mother of Jonathan, Peter, Elizabeth and her husband, James. Dear sister of George Steinberg. Loving grandmother of Daniel and Paul. Family will receive friends at 11 Ethelridge Road, White Plains, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evening.
 DURANTT-Marcos Anthony. ''Beloved by all who knew him''. On February 7, 1999. Beloved son of Daria McCloskey. Beloved brother of Adrianna Desier. Beloved grandson of Bernadette Maron. Nephew of Adrian and Linda McCloskey. Cousin of Matthew, Ryan and Luke McCloskey. Funeral from the McManus 
 FRANKSON-Harry William. On February 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Gladys. Adoring father of Todd & his financee Chris. Dear brother of Lois. Favorite uncle to Debbie, Tommy, Andre, Cissy, Arlene, Paul, Heather, Mary Beth, Dawn, Kenneth, Keith, Janelle and Scott. Loved by all whose lives he to
 GARNICK-Martin. Age 74, died suddenly on February 7. He leaves his wife, Willa; two daughters, Deborah (Richard Wood) and Laura (David Bellet); five grandchildren, David, Joanna, and Eleanor Wood, and Andrew & Eric Bellet. Service Tuesday, February 9, 2 PM Gutterman's Chapel, 175 Long Beach
 GROSSMAN-William M. Husband of Beatrice. Father of John and Kenneth. Father-in-law of Joan, Pam & Sunny. Devoted grandfather of Jill, Steven, Eric, Amy, Seth, Galen, Eric, Kyle, Andres, Caroline. Devoted great grandfather of Julia, Rachel and Samuel. Services Nassau North Chapels, Great Nec
 HARTMANN-Erich. 76. Died of heart failure February 4, 1999 in NYC after sustaining a heart attack. A photojournalist, he joined Magnum Photos in 1951 and served as President. He was renowned for his work in the arts and his interpretation of the industrial landscape. His one man exhibitions
 HUSSEIN-His Majesty, King of Jordan. The American Jewish Congress, which was the first Jewish organization to accept an invitation to visit Jordan, mourns the death of King Hussein. Israel and the Jewish people have lost a true friend. The Middle East has lost a peacemaker. The world has lo
 LEONTIEF-Wassily. The New York University community mourns the death of Wassily Leontief, a Nobel Laureate, a long-time professor of economics and director of NYU's Institute of Economic Analysis. He was a scholar of extraordinary distinction, richly deserving of the high honors he was acco
 McGUIRE-James Kevin. Of Northport, NY on February 6, 1999 in his 79th year. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Ford McGuire, devoted father of Suzanne M. McGuire, James M. McGuire, Regina McGuire and Barbara A. McGuire. Reposing Nolan & Taylor-Howe Funeral Home, 5 Laurel Avenue, Northport
 NASS-Jack. The Trustees and staff of the Bronx/Riverdale YMYWHA are deeply saddened by the passing of out Trustee since 1955, Jack Nass. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Roslyn and the entire family. Jeffrey A. Moerdler, President Harry M. Feder, Chair of Board Diane Rubin, Exec. D
 O'BRIEN-Cletus F. Died February 6, age 63. Beloved husband of Ruth, loving father of Veronica, Cletus III and Stephen. Cherished father-in-law of Shelagh. Proud grandfather of Michael, Bridget and Cletus IV. President of COB Industries, Inc. Distinguished member of the Eau Gallie Rotary Clu
 PRESSMAN-Gussie. Age 93. On February 6, 1999. Wife of the late Julius. Devoted mother of Dr. Peter and Peggy Pressman, Alice and Sanford Gordon. Loving grandmother of Michael and Jeffrey Pressman, Ellen and Scott Hollander, Betsy and Eric Gordon. Cherished great-grandmother of Emily, Zachar
 REINGOLD-Jacob. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the New York Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend, Jacob Reingold. We will miss his wisdom and his compassion, and join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our deepest sympathies are extended 
 SALKIN-Martin, age 84. Beloved husband of May for 52 years. Devoted father of Betty Wallach (Howard), Karen (Ray Buktenica), Edward (LouAnn). Fond brother of Vivian Woods. Loving grandfather of Catherine Rachel, David Jonathan and Veronica Shea. He was a World War II veteran and an educator
 STEVENSON-Hugh K. Retired business executive, age 78, died on February 6, 1999, in Stuart, FL. Donations in his memory may be made to The Salvation Army, or Bradley Childrens Hospital, 1011 Veterans Memorial Parkway, East Providence, R.I. 02915.       
 Rod Sorge, a former executive of the Harm Reduction Coalition, a private organization that promotes services for drug users and other people on the fringes of society, was found dead in his upper Manhattan apartment on Jan. 28. He was 30. He died of AIDS-related causes, the coalitio
 Hector Alejandro Galindo Amezcua, a prolific film director who created his own genre of movies set in Mexico's urban underworld, died on Feb. 1. He was 93. Mr. Galindo, who was known in the Mexican film world as Don Alex, directed or wrote scripts for more than 70 films, virtually a
 Martin J. Norris, a retired Coast Guard administrative law judge who wrote widely cited books on maritime law, died Monday at Sound Shore Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Eastchester, N.Y. Judge Norris held his post from 1956 until he retired in 1970, said his w
 AUERBACH-Harry M., age 88. On February 9, 1999. Adored and adoring husband of Gladys for 58 years. Loving father of Kenneth and Susan Auerbach and Jane and Neal Gelfand. Proud grandfather of Philip, Peter, Alexandra and Laura. Cherished brother of Helene Feuereisen. His strength and wisdom 
 CASELLA-Reverend David. The Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition will sorely miss Father David Casella. Father David took an active role in seeking better housing and an improved quality of life for all people. He inspired us daily through his total commitment to social justice. N
 DENIKE - Mary - Etta Schmitz. (January 1, '13-February 6, '99). Of Doylestown, Pa. formerly of Chatham, NJ and Sint Maarten Netherlands Antilles. Wife of the late Robert M. Denike, grandmother of Ryan and Abbey Denike, mother of Bruce M. Denike and his wife Barbara Rancourt and Stuart R. De
 FROSCH-John, M.D. The faculty and staff of The Department of Psychiatry mourn the loss of one of our distinguished faculty, Dr. John Frosch, Professor of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine. Dr. Frosch had a long association with the school spanning some 50 years. He was re
 GESCHWIND-Dr. Stanley, of Needham, MA., and Berkeley Heights, New Jersey, on Monday, February 8. Survived by his companion Susan Powers, sons Daniel, Benjamin and Michael and their mother Dena, grandchildren Eli and Maya and sisters Shirley Frant and Lenora Gebeloff. Services were in Brookl
 HUDES-Albert Beryl. Died peacefully at his home in New York City after an extended illness. He was in his 76th year. One-time Foreign Service officer, corporate public relations executive and fund-raiser, he is survived by his sister Ethel Linn, niece Stephanie Max and many devoted friends.
 HUSSEIN-His Majesty, King of Jordan. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (ATS) joins with all advocates of peace, progress and regional cooperation in the Middle East in expressing great sorrow at the passing of King Hussein. We extend our heartfelt condolences 
 LEONTIEF-Wassily. The members of the Department of Economics at New York University note with sorrow the passing of our colleague, Wassily Leontief, who joined our Faculty in 1975. Wassily served as a model to all of us in the Department and we will feel his loss. Our sympathies are extende
 McGORRY-William J. Of Mount Sinai, NY on February 9, 1999 at age 86. Devoted husband of the late Frances O'Sullivan McGorry. He is survived by his brothers, Gerard, Thomas and Jack, his children Lenore, Mark and Brian, daughters-in-law Lana and Kathleen, son-in-law William, grandchildren Cr
 METZ-Charles in his 102 year. Beloved husband of the late Bertha. Devoted father and father-in-law of Suzane and Dan Sadofsky, the late Eleanor and David Freiman. Cherished grandfather of Alyson, Jane, Greg, Steven and James. Dear brother of Frieda Schwartzberg. For information contact Yabl
 MILLER-Richard J., on February 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Suzanne. Father of E. Scott, Lisa and Sondra. Son of Irene and the late Richard. Memorial service at the Reformed Church, Pondfield Road at Midland Avenue, Bronxville, New York, Saturday, February 13th at 3PM. Contributions in his m
 MINTZ-Ira L., M.D. On February 9th, 1999 in Closter, N.J. Beloved husband of Nancy (Donnenfeld). Loving father of Susan Berger, Robert and Karen Mintz. Devoted grandfather of Julie, Kate, Daniel and Elizabeth. Dr. Mintz, 72, practiced and lectured in the field of psychoananalysis and child 
 NASS-Jacob (Jack). On February 5th, 1999. A longtime colleague and friend to all of us at Kurzman Karelsen & Frank, LLP. We will miss him dearly.       
 PETTIT-James G. Of West Hartford and Old Lyme, CT, died suddenly on February 8, 1999 at St. Francis Hospital & Medical Center, Hartford, CT. Born March 4, 1917 in Long Branch, New Jersey, he was the son of Thomas A. and Julia C. (Gordon) Pettit. Mr. Pettit was an investment advisor for over
 REILLY-Frank J. Of Saddle River, New Jersey passed away on Sunday, February 7th. Born on September 1, 1920 in Albany, NY. WWII Naval Officer. FBI special agent. Restaurant entrepreneur and founder of The Fireplace Restaurant in Paramus, New Jersey. Adoring and unfaltering devoted husband to
 CASTELLANOS-Don F. February 10, 1997. A companion and friend, he is now at rest. May his memory be for a blessing. Dan Wollenziehn       
 GAIR-Harry A. Remembered for his superlative and consummate successes in advancing the philosophy of law and its advocacy in his specialty, medical jurisprudence. Herbert       
 Dr. Eliot Corday, a Los Angeles cardiologist who played a major role in conveying American knowledge about cardiology to other countries, particularly underdeveloped ones, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. At h
 Dr. Franklin Asbury Long, an emeritus professor at Cornell University, former Government adviser and advocate of international arms reductions, died on Monday at a nursing home in Pomona, Calif. He was 88 and had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., and Claremont, Calif. A chemist by training, Dr
 Herbert Klynn, a pioneer in film and television animation, died on Feb. 3 at a hospital in Tarzana, Calif. He was 81. Mr. Klynn helped create prize-winning cartoon shorts, including ''Mr. Magoo,'' ''Gerald McBoing-Boing'' and ''Madeline,'' at the United Productions of America Studio
 Dr. John Lambert Cotter, an archeologist who dug into America's ancient and not-so-ancient past, died on Friday at a retirement residence in Philadelphia. He was 87. Dr. Cotter retired as curator emeritus from the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology and Anthropology but 
 AUERBACH-Harry M., age 88. On February 9, 1999. Adored and adoring husband of Gladys for 58 years. Loving father of Kenneth and Susan Auerbach and Jane and Neal Gelfand. Proud grandfather of Philip, Peter, Alexandra and Laura. Cherished brother of Helene Feuereisen. His strength and wisdom 
 BEINEKE-Jack Frederick. The Officers and Members of the NY Psychonalytic Society and Institute express their profound sorrow at the death of their respected and beloved colleague Dr. Beineke. Although he lived away from New York, his training and association with our institute continued to 
 BENARI-Morris. February 9, 1999. He will always be remembered with deep respect and love by his family and friends. He is survived by his wife Marta, sons Yoav and Michael, brother Beno, daughterin-law Diane, and granddaughter Jessica. Services were attended by family only.       
 BIGGI-Gemma suddenly February 2. Beloved sister of Terry Stiefel and Anthony Biggi and his wife Ann. Also survived by 7 nieces and nephews, 14 great nieces and nephews. A memorial mass will be celebrated Saturday, February 13 at 10AM at St. Francis Xavier Church, 46 W. 16 Street, N.Y.C. Pre
 CONWAY-James E. The President, Trustees and the entire Manhattan College Community acknowledge with profound sorrow the passing of James E. Conway '54. He was a valued and trusted Board member who gave his time and expertise generously to his alma mater. Jim was a senior partner at the law 
 DENIKE-Mary-Etta Schmitz. January 1, 1913-February 6, 1999. Of Doylestown, Pa, formerly of Chatham, NJ, and St. Maarten, Netherlands Antilles. Wife of the late Robert M. Denike, grandmother of Ryan and Abbey Denike, mother of Bruce M. Denike and his wife, Barbara Rancourt, and Stuart R. Den
 HUDES-Albert B. The March of Dimes Birth Defect Foundation and the Greater New York Chapter note with sadness the death of Albert B. Hudes, a long time friend, colleague and patron. His efforts throughout the years, benefited the lives of countless pregnant women and infants. On behalf of t
 LAVELLE-Gary. The Board of Trustees and staff of the New York City Chapter of the Leukemia Society of America mourns the passing of our friend, Gary Lavelle. Our sympathy is extended to his beloved wife and family.       
 MINTZ-Ira, MD. Passed away on February 9, 1999, at age 72. The members of the NJ Psychoanalytic Society mourn the loss of their esteemed friend and colleague. Dr. Mintz served as president of the NJ Psychoanalytic Society and was an eminent psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. Dr. Mintz wrote an
 SCOPOULIS-Bill. On February 8. Avid reader, talker, listener and good friend. Our deepest sympathy to Concepcion and his children Maria, Stefan and Robert and his grandchildren. We will miss him. Tom and Shel       
 SHAFFER-David D. and his beloved wife Margaret died two weeks apart-Mr. Shaffer on November 16, and Mrs. Shaffer on December 3. At their request, their funeral services and burials were in Mrs. Shaffer's hometown-Ogden, Iowa. To allow their friends and relatives in New York to say goodbye, 
 TANG-Zugu. On February 8, 1999 at age 80. Beloved husband of Jingwen. Devoted father of Deliang Tang and Yen Nan Wong, and father-in-law of Frances Tang and Thomas Wong. Loving grandfather of Edward and Christina Tang, Roger and Linda Wong. A loyal and patriotic Chinese immigrant. He served
 GUTRIDE-Philip S. 2/5/23-12/14/98. My prince consort missed his birthday and our 54th anniversary. Ziese Khalomes. Regina       
 Spencer A. Samuels, a leading art dealer for more than 50 years, died on Jan. 30 at St. Johns Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Santa Monica. Mr. Samuels was born into the business. The son of Mitchell Samuels, a co-founder of French & Company, a major New York
 Col. Robert S. Scott, who as a junior Army officer won the Medal of Honor in World War II for beating back a Japanese counterattack in the battle for an airstrip in the Solomon Islands and killing 28 enemy soldiers despite being wounded twice, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He
 Danny Dayton, an actor and director, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was emphysema, his publicist said. As an actor on television, Mr. Dayton played the character known as Hank Pivnik on ''All in t
 Gideon Rafael, a founder of the Israeli Foreign Ministry and one of its most accomplished and longest-serving diplomats, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. He was 85. In a career that began before Israel was established in 1948, Mr. Rafael negotiated with the Nazis to send Jews to Pale
 Ira Leonard Mintz, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who wrote extensively on eating disorders afflicting children, died on Tuesday at his home in Closter, N.J. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Mintz, who had his private practice in Englewood, N.
 AUERBACH-Harry M., 88, on February 9, 1999. Adored and adoring husband of Gladys for 58 years. Loving father of Kenneth & Susan Auerbach & Jane & Neal Gelfand. Proud grandfather of Philip, Peter, Alexandra and Laura. Cherished brother of Helene Feuereisen. His strength and wisdom illuminate
 BIDERMAN-Chaim. The Conference of Presidents mourns the loss of the beloved father of our esteemed friend Abe Biderman. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Melvin Salberg, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman BIDERMAN-Chaim Shea. The B
 BURSON-Leo. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Leo Burson, Memphis TN, respected community leader, a Hadassah Associate & Founder, husband of board member Josephine Burson. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Po
 CAMMANN-Robert J. The Board of Directors of the New Rochelle Chamber of Commerce mourns the loss of our Executive Director of thirty-seven years. His dedication to the Chamber and to the entire city will be missed. Our thoughts are with his wife, Teddi and his family. Robert J. Streger, Pre
 CHUDNOWSKY-Oscar. Died on February 6th at the age of 91. A renowned bookseller. He knew and loved books. He started in the 1920's among the colorful characters selling used and rare books on 4th Avenue. In 1962, in Huntington, Long Island, he opened Oscar's Literary Emporium, the subject of
 MURPHY-Edmond L. On February 10, 1999, of Riverdale, NJ. Beloved husband of Carol. Funeral services will be held Monday, 11:00 am, at the M. John Scanlan Funeral Home, 781 Newark-Pompton Turnpike at Rt. 23, Pompton Plains, NJ. Friends may call Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Contributions in Edmond
 SCHNAPF-Nathan. On February 10th, 1999. Beloved husband of Esther (nee Meezan). Adored father of Susan, David and Deborah Schnapf. Devoted grandfather of Sarah Schnapf and Benjamin Chewey. He was the former owner of Associated Recording Studio, the first independent recording studio in NYC.
 SENTNOR-Marvin M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Marvin Sentnor. Dr. Sentnor was a physician with the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for over 30 years. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Sincere condolences are exten
 ZARIN-Harry. Beloved husband of Miriam. Devoted father of Lenore, Bobby and Zina. Adored grandfather of Jena, Julie, Corey, David, Jennifer, Jonathan, Steven and Richard. Loving great-grandfather of Jessica and Jillian. Founder of Harry Zarin Co., drapery and upholstery fabrics since 1936. 
 Whitney Tower, the longtime racing writer and former president of the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame, who became a legendary figure at race tracks throughout the world with his courtly manner and rich personal pedigree, died yesterday at his home in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was
 Albert Beryl Hudes, who organized galas that raised millions of dollars for the New York City Opera and March of Dimes Birth Defect Foundation, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. He had suffered from a bone-marrow cancer called multiple myeloma and from chronic kidney 
 Irwin C. Watson, a comedian who appeared frequently on television in the 1950's and 60's and in nightclubs throughout the country, died on Feb. 1 at the Winter Park Memorial Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 70 and lived in Orlando. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Edlyne
 Leonard James Arrington, the dean of Mormon historians, died on Thursday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, his family said. An economist by training, Dr. Arrington had a notable parallel career as an economic historian of the American Wes
 LEVIN-Jacob A. ''Yankel'', age 90, died peacefully on February 11, 1999. Heroic Holocaust survivor. Devoted husband of Eda to whom he was married for 50 years. Beloved father and father-in-law of Dr. Sol Levin and his wife JoAnne; Elise and her husband Dr. Stephen Shapiro. Adored grandfathe
 MINTZ-Ira L., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanaltic Training and Research and the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, teacher and clinician, Dr. Ira Mintz. He will be sorely missed. We extend our sympathy to his wife Nancy and hi
 MURPHY-Edmond L. With great sadness the employees of Fiduciary Trust Company International note the death of their friend Edmond L. Murphy. Ed was our colleague for more than twenty years until his retirement in 1993. His talent and knowledge as an investor and adviser have been an inspirat
 Stanley C. Gillette, a former clothing industry executive, died on Feb. 4 at his home in New York City. He was 81 years old. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Gillette joined Phillips-Jones, the manufacturer of Van Heusen brand shirts and other men's we
 Victor G. Bloede, a former advertising executive who helped introduce the slogan ''Good to the last drop'' for Maxwell House coffee as well as other enduring advertising campaigns for consumer products, died on Wednesday in Boca Raton, Fla., from complications after surgery. He was 79.     
 In the 1930's, when polo was a sport of the rich, a Texan named Cecil Smith began a career that made him perhaps the greatest player in the history of a game more than 2,000 years old. On Jan. 21, the one-time polo-pony wrangler died in Boerne, Tex., where he had lived more than 30-years. H
 BIDERMAN-Chaim. The Metropolitan NY Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the loss of Chaim Biderman, father of our esteemed Vice President, Abe Biderman. Chaim Biderman's involvement with Agudath Israel was an inspiration for his family and helped the entire Jewish community. He le
 JONES-Charles L., II. Of Greenwich, CT. Formerly of Pelham Manor, N.Y. Died on February 12, 1999 at Greenwich Hospital after a long illness. He was born April 27, 1921 in Pittsburgh, PA. He was the son of the late Charles L. and Ruth Flanagan Jones. He graduated from Princeton University in
 JOSEPH-Colin Forbes, 44, on February 7. Beloved son of Beryl and the late Edmond Joseph. Born in (McKenzie) Guyana. His grace, charm and dignified countenance will forever be remembered. Survived by his daughter, Melinda, sisters and brothers, Cecil, Clorine, Claudette, Compton, Douglas, Ge
 KAPLAN-William. The Board of Directors of National Association of Family Development Centers and the entire staff of the Family Head Start-Family Pre-K School Divisions extend their heartfelt condolences to all the members of the Kaplan family, his dear wife Marcia, his sister Pearl, and so
 KEYSER-Robert. Painter. Age 74. Loving companion of Wally Reinhardt. Died of complications from pneumonia on February 2 in Philadelphia, PA. His friends join Wally in his great sadness at this loss. Memorial service to be announced.       
 KLEIN-Charles M., 84, of Mesa, Ariz., formerly of Floral Park, NY, retired supervisor of communications for the New York Times, died February 5, 1999. He was born in Brooklyn, NY. Survivors include his loving wife of 60 years, Adelaide M.; his dear sister, Virginia Mosier of Mesa, Ariz.; hi
 LEVIN-Jacob A. ''Yankel'', age 90, died peacefully on February 11, 1999. Heroic Holocaust survivor. Devoted husband of Eda to whom he was married for 50 years. Beloved father and father-in-law of Dr. Sol Levin and his wife JoAnne; Elise and her husband Dr. Stephen Shapiro. Adored grandfathe
 MARTOCCIA-Arthur R. Prominent attorney, age 85 on February 10, 1999. Beloved husband of Carmela. Dear father of Linda Centurrino and Elaine Pantaleo. Loving grandfather of Brian, Laura, Janine and Kevin. Brother of William. Mr. Martoccia actively practiced law until he was appointed to the 
 MURPHY-Edmond L. With great sadness the employees of Fiduciary Trust Company International note the death of their friend Edmond L. Murphy. Ed was our colleague for more than twenty years until his retirement in 1993. His talent and knowledge as an investor and adviser have been an inspirat
 PETER-Helmut W. KeySpan Energy and Brookyn Union mourn the passing of our former colleague and beloved friend. As our vice chairman and chief engineer, he was an ''engineer's engineer'', with a visionary commitment to research and development of new gas technologies and to excellence in eng
 ROSENBERG-Paul, PhD., 88, on February 6, 1999. NY resident, relocated to Cols. OH, November 1998. Survived by his wife Marjorie H., daughter Gale R. Gross, son-inlaw William Gross, grandson Joshua Samuel. Internationally renowned physicist, electrical/electronics engineer, chemist, specialt
 TOWER-Whitney. Died peacefully at his home in Saratoga Springs, NY on Thursday, February 11, 1999. Former Turf Editor of Sports Illustrated and a founder of Classic Magazine, he devoted his final years to the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He is survived by his wife Lucy Lyle T
 YOUNG-Jane. It is with great sadness that the Board, Staff, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Jane Young, wife of Edgar B. Young, who is one of Lincoln Center's founders, a distinguished Director Emeritus and chronicler of Lincoln Center's hist
 David Golding, a former managing editor of the Mediterranean edition of the Army newspaper Stars and Stripes in Rome during World War II, died at St. John's Hospital, in Santa Monica, Calif., yesterday. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. Under Mr. Golding, Stars and Stripes publish
 Dr. Max Samter, an immunologist recognized internationally for research that led to improvements in patient care and for a groundbreaking textbook, died on Tuesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 90. Dr. Samter fled Germany in 1937, early in his medical career, fearing retribut
 Jaki Byard, a pianist, saxophonist and teacher who recorded with some of jazz's most important figures,  died on Thursday in his house in Hollis, Queens. He was 76. Police are investigating the death of Mr. Byard, who was found shot in the home he shared with his two daughters. Deni
 Joe M. Kilgore, a Texas Democrat who was a Congressman from 1955 to 1965 and advised Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Wednesday. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Austin. Where he died was not disclosed. In later life he was a partner in the Austin law firm of McGinnis, Lochrid
 BYARD-Jaki. The Manhattan School of Music deeply mourns the untimely passing of venerable faculty member Jaki Byard. A renowned member of our jazz piano faculty since 1989, his personal, distinct and eclectic style along with his pure talent, vast experience, and affable presence will be so
 DICKLER-Gerald. Died peacefully on February 13, 1999, at the age of 86. He is survived by his wife of sixty-five years, the former Ruth Crohn; three daughters, Abby Pratt of West Stockbridge, MA; Jane Lebow of Manhattan; and Susan Dickler of Lexington, MA, as well as a brother, Irving Dickl
 GLIDDEN-Germain Green. Artist and athlete, passed away on February 11 at age 85. He was also the Founder and COB of the National Art Museum of Sport (NAMOS) in Indiana. He is survived by three daughters, Pamela, Christine and Dianna, four grandchildren, one great-grandson. In lieu of flower
 McKINLEY-Gordon., 74. Died on February 12 in Winston-Salem, NC. Beloved husband of Helen, nee Anderson. Devoted father of Wendy and Peter and father-inlaw of Rachel. Loving grandfather of Ross and Ben. World War II veteran. Taught English at Tufts University, Medford, MA, and Westminster Sc
 MESH-Jerome. Devoted husband of Deborah. Loving father of Dana and Lynn. Cherished grandfather of Amanda and Courtney. Adored brother of Lila Kramer. He was a truly beautiful person and will be greatly missed.       
 O'KEEFFE-Daniel., age 63, died peacefully on February 12, 1999, after a battle with lung cancer. Danny will be missed by his loving wife, Konnie, seven children, sisters: Catherine, Eileen, brothers: Tom and Joe. He was a NYC school teacher for 33 years. Call 718-849-1000 for information on
 SASSERATH-Simpson. 83, died on Saturday, February 13th, at Mount Sinai Medical Center, Miami. Lifelong resident of NYC. Retired H.S. principal who devoted his professional life to education from the time he graduated from City College at age 19. He will be remembered for his insight, genero
 WOLLMAN-Steven A.. February 14, 1999, at age 69. Of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Harrison, NY. Loving companion of Marlene Norton. Beloved father of Jill, Gail, James and Amy. Devoted fatherin-law of James E. Frankel and Carl G. Wistreich. Adored grandfather of Kathryn, Sara, Alexander, Broo
 Thomas Banyacya, who spent half a century on a tireless and often thankless Hopi spiritual mission to save the planet from the ravages of modern materialism and greed, died on Feb. 6 at a hospital in Keane Canyon, Ariz., about 40 miles from his home in Kykotsmovi on the Hopi reservation. He
 Ben Edwards, one of the most important and productive scenic designers on Broadway for more than 50 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was pneumonia associated with lymphoma, said his wife, the costume designer Jane Greenwood. Distinguished 
 Germain Green Glidden, a national squash racquets champion, painter, muralist, cartoonist and founder in 1959 of the National Art Museum of Sport, died last Tuesday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 and lived in the Silvermine area of Norwalk. Mr. Glidden was born in Binghamton
 Harold A. Felix, a New York City Labor Commissioner under Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died on Jan. 20 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 93. He was Commissioner from 1957 to 1962. Mr. Felix and Mayor Wagner had been close friends since both were young political workers in the De
 Jean Ballarin, who on a day in 1941 drew his saber, spurred his horse and galloped headlong into French military history, died on Feb. 3 in his home in Paris. He was 84 and was recalled as the last man to have led a French cavalry charge. As cavalry charges go, or went, the one Mr. 
 John D. Ehrlichman, who served as President Richard M. Nixon's pugnacious defender and domestic policy chief and went to prison for his role in the Watergate scandals, died on Sunday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. Mr. Ehrlichman had been suffering from diabetes for about a year,
 BERENGARTEN-Sidney. The Faculty, Advisory Council, Alumni Association and staff of the Columbia University School of Social Work record with profound sorrow the death of Professor Emeritus Sidney Berengarten on February 14, 1999, in New York City. A 1943 M.S. graduate of the School, he join
 DICKLER-Gerald. Died peacefully on February 13, 1999, at the age of 86. He is survived by his wife of sixty-five years, the former Ruth Crohn; three daughters, Abby Pratt of West Stockbridge, MA; Jane Lebow of Manhattan; and Susan Dickler of Lexington, MA, as well as a brother, Irving Dickl
 ESSERMAN-Dr. Paul R., 76. February 13. Distinguished physician & professor at New York University School of Medicine. Survived by his wife, Dr. Irene Shapiro; children, Lauren and Dean; daughterin-law, Gilda; grandchildren, Rolando, Nellie, Samuel; and godchildren, Julia, Laura, and Tami Sm
 LIVOTI-Caspar. On February 14, 1999. Retired Attorney. Survived by his brother, Frank J. Livoti and his sister Loretta Livoti. Also survived by eleven nieces and nephews. Friends may call at The Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 125 Hillside Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York, Tuesday 2-5PM and 7
 POTTER-Frederick A. Age 64. Beloved brother of Sally P. Benedict and Mary Pullen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Friday, February 19, 3PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 ROSENTHAL-Dr. Alan G. Of White Plains, N.Y. on February 14, 1999. Age 71 years. Beloved husband of Ruth F. Rosenthal, loving father of Judith Rosenthal Martinson and Jonathan Rosenthal, dear father-in-law of Ronald Martinson, fond brother of Ruth Kayne, adored grandfather of Zachery Martins
 SASSERATH-Simpson. The New York Academy of Public Education mourns the passing of Simpson Sasserath, Honorary Life Member. He served on the Board of Directors and as Editor of its Newsletter. Our condolences to relatives and friends. Dr. Teresa Trimarco, Executive Director       
 TOWER-Whitney. Died peacefully at his home in Saratoga Springs, NY on Thursday, February 11, 1999. Former Turf Editor of Sports Illustrated and a founder of Classic Magazine, he devoted his final years to the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He is survived by his wife Lucy Lyle T
 WOLF-Abraham. On January 25, 1999 of Silver Spring, MD, formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 58 years; loving father of Phyllis Schwartz and Karen Leeman; cherished grandfather of David and Julia. He practiced law until the age of 80.       
 SIMON-Pierre. The family of Pierre Simon invites his friends to a memorial service to honor his life, 6 P.M., February 18, The Knickerbocker Club, 2 E. 62 St.       
 Carl Ally, a hard-hitting, high-flying advertising man who helped show Madison Avenue the error of its genteel ways through a series of blunt ads that turned upstarts like Federal Express and MCI into industry giants and him into an industry legend, died on Monday. He was 74 and the founder
 Dr. George E. Shambaugh Jr., one of the world's foremost authorities on disorders of the ear and a pioneer in the use of the operating microscope to prevent deafness in people with a congenital defect in the inner ear, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Sandwich, Ill. He was 95. He was s
 Dr. Henry Way Kendall, one of three physicists who shared a Nobel Prize for confirming that tiny particles called quarks were the basic building blocks of matter, died on Monday while on an underwater photography shoot in Wakulla Springs State Park, south of Tallahassee, Fla. He was 72 and 
 Herbert Kline, a pioneer documentary filmmaker who chronicled the political crises in Europe in the 1930's and 40's, died on Feb. 5 in Los Angeles. He was 89. Mr. Kline called himself ''a foreign correspondent of the screen.'' He saw his job as going beyond the superficial reporting
 Jimmy Dudley, who joined the Indians' broadcast booth in 1948, their memorable pennant-winning season, and became the highly popular radio voice of Cleveland baseball for two decades, died last Friday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 89 and a member of the broadcasters' wing of the Baseball Hall of 
 BUXTON-Dr. Jorge N. On February 15, 1999. Survived by his wife Amalia; sons Douglas and George, his beloved daughter in-law Catherine & sister-in-law Maruja. Also loyal friends Emi and Fernanda whose kindness and support is greatly appreciated. Memorial mass of the resurrection will be held
 DICKLER-Gerald. The law firm of Hall Dickler Kent Friedman & Wood mourns the passing of Gerald Dickler, one of its founding partners, and extends deepest condolences to his family.       
 EDWARDS-Ben. The Board of Directors and Staff of Theatre Development Fund wish to express their condolences to Ms. Jane Greenwood and the family of Ben Edwards on his passing.       
 ESSERMAN-Paul R., M.D. The Partners and Staff of Concorde Medical Group are saddened by the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague. He was admired by his patients for his humanity and caring, and respected by his peers for his knowledge and skills. To us he will always be the paragon by
 FEINBERG-Milt, 87, formerly of Manhattan and Lauderhill, FL. died from pneumonia on February 14th. He was the Executive Vice President of National Screen Service, an advertising company for major motion picture studios until his retirement in 1976. His wife Charlotte died in 1997. He is sur
 GLIDDEN-Germain G. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Germain Glidden, and send condolences to his family.       
 GOLDNER-Dr. Edward I., 89. Of 201 Granite Road, Guilford, CT, formerly of North Haven, New York City and Lauderhill, Florida died Sunday at the Connecticut Hospice, Branford after a brief illness. He is the husband of Edna Frank Goldner. Dr. Goldner was born in Romania on October 17, 1909 a
 MARTOCCIA-Arthur R. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department mark with sorrow the passing of a great friend of the Court. As a member of the Court's Committee on Character and Fitness he served the Court with distinction. Joseph P. Sullivan, Act
 POTTER-Frederick A. Age 64. Beloved brother of Sally P. Benedict and Mary Pullen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Friday, February 19, 3PM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 QUICK-Raymond Crile, age 2, beloved son of Peter and Crisler Quick of Mill Neck, NY, tragically died on February 15, 1999. He is survived by his parents, his sisters, Mary, Stephanie, Diane, Grace, and Michelle, his brother Peter Joseph, his grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Leslie C. Quick, Jr of
 SIMON-Pierre. The family of Pierre Simon invites his friends to a memorial service to honor his life, 6 P.M., February 18, The Knickerbocker Club, 2 E. 62 St.       
 Brig. Gen. Thomas William Mattingly, a retired cardiologist who treated President Dwight D. Eisenhower during several of his illnesses, died on Friday in Davidson, N.C., where he had lived for the past decade. He was 92. Dr. Mattingly, a former chief of cardiology at Walter Reed Med
 Gary Jennings, a prolific writer whose books included the best-selling novel ''Aztec,'' about the Aztec war against the Spanish conquistadors, died on Saturday at his home in Pompton Lakes, N.J. He was 70. The cause was heart failure, said his brother, Hiram. Mr. Jennings's 
 Gerald Dickler, a New York lawyer who represented artists, writers and broadcasters, including some of those blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his famil
 ANGUS-Bruce, retired Advertising Executive died of natural causes at his residence in Charlottesville, VA. Mr. Angus was born on November 26, 1906 and a resident of New York City until 1972. He graduated from Columbia College where he was a member of Alpha Delta Phi and served on the Class 
 BELFER-Ben W. Cantor Emeritus of Temple B'nai Sholom of Rockville Centre. He was dedicated to the service of his people and the perpetuation of cantorial artistry, an outstanding faculty member of the Hebrew Union College School of Sacred Music and the Cantorial School of the Jewish Theolog
 BUXTON-Jorge N., M.D. The Board of Directors and Medical Staff of The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary profoundly mourn the death of Dr. Jorge N. Buxton, an internationally renowned expert in corneal and external diseases. Dr. Buxton, who began his long and illustrious career at the Infirmary
 ELLENBOGEN-Raphael. Age 74. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully in Columbus, Ohio, Wednesday, February 17, 1999. Loving husband of Florence. A former Administrator at synagogues in New York including the Rego Park Jewish Center and Temple Beth-El in Cedarhurst, L.I. Raphael spent the
 GAGNEBIN-Albert P. On February 14, 1999 age 90 in Jupiter, FL. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, February 20 at 11AM at St. George's By-TheRiver, Rumson, NJ. In lieu of flowers a contribution in his memory may be made to Yale University, C
 LEWKO-Max. EMUNAH of America mourns the passing of longtime friend and supporter Max Lewko. His kindness and generosity to EMUNAH will long be remembered. Sincere condolences to the family. Dr. Sylvia Schonfeld National President Shirley Singer, Exec. V.P.       
 SCILKEN-Marvin H. of New York City, on February 2, 1999. Husband of Polly Scilken, father of Jonathan and David, grandfather of Adam and Michael Scilken, brother of Marjorie Scilken-Friedman. Graduate of the Bronx High School of Science, the University of Colorado-Boulder (BA) and Pratt Ins
 SPENCER-Peter Harvey. Died on Feb. 15, at his home in Telluride, CO. Born January 18, 1939 in Brooklyn, he was a graduate of Yale University, manufacturer of children's clothing, former Mayor of Telluride, & professional writer. Loving husband of Rebecca Parmer Spencer; brother of Nancy Mun
 WOLF-Henry. The law firm of Wolf Popper LLP wishes to extend its deepest sympathy to our founding partner, Benedict Wolf, and the family of Henry Wolf, another of our founding partners, on the passing of Henry Wolf on Tuesday, February 16, 1999. Henry Wolf has been retired from the firm for
 DICKLER-Gerald. The family of Gerald Dickler invites his friends to attend a memorial service on Thursday, March 4th at 10AM at ABC, Inc., 77 West 66 St, 22nd flr.       
 Dr. Paul R. Esserman, an internist who juggled the multiple lives of teacher, corporate physician, private practitioner and occasional medical diplomat, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Esserman, a Brooklyn native who entered
 Dr. William Kessen, a developmental psychologist whose research, theoretical contributions and teaching at Yale University helped shape the thinking of a generation of child psychologists, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in Branford, Conn. The cause 
 Albert P. Gagnebin, the former president and chairman of the International Nickel Company, died on Sunday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. Mr. Gagnebin, a resident of Jupiter and of Little Silver, N.J., was 90. Mr. Gagnebin joined the research division of Inco, as Inte
 Anthony Francis Shannon, a former reporter and Pulitzer Prize winner, died Tuesday at his home in Warren Township, N.J. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Catherine. Mr. Shannon and two colleagues at The New York World-Telegram and The Sun, Sylvan Fox an
 Former Representative Jeffery Cohelan, a liberal Democrat from California who served in the House for 12 years before becoming executive director of the Group Health Association in 1970, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 84. The cause was Parkinson's disease and cance
 BELFER-Ben. Temple B'nai Sholom mourns the death of Cantor Emeritus Ben Belfer. For many years his liturgical renditions and beautiful melodies uplifted our souls. Our sympathy is extended to his family. Dr. Barry Dov Schwartz, Rabbi Jeffrey H. Greenfield, Pres.       
 BELFER-Ben, Cantor. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of Cantor Ben Belfer, beloved faculty member of the School of Sacred Music for m
 BELFER-Cantor Ben W. The American Conference of Cantors express profound sorrow on the passing of their beloved colleague, mentor, teacher and friend, Cantor Ben W. Belfer. As a longtime member of the faculty of the School of Sacred Music at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion
 CRAWFORD-Warren W. of Dorset, VT. Died February 17, 1999. Born in Chicago, IL, he worked for the General Electric company in NY. He is survived by his wife, Vera Martin; son, Thomas Crawford; daughter, Robin Youngman; two grandchildren and a brother, Dr. Robert W. Crawford. Services Februar
 ELLENBOGEN-Raphael. Age 74. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully in Columbus, Ohio, Wednesday, February 17, 1999. Loving husband of Florence. A former Administrator at synagogues in New York including the Rego Park Jewish Center and Temple Beth-El in Cedarhurst, L.I. Raphael spent the
 GAGNEBIN-Albert P. On February 14, 1999 age 90 in Jupiter, FL. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, February 20 at 11AM at St. George's By-TheRiver, Rumson, NJ. In lieu of flowers a contribution in his memory may be made to Yale University, C
 KENNER-Morton, on February 17, 1999. Beloved and cherished husband of Edythe Kenner, devoted father of Martin, Peter, Robert and step father of Robert Safron. Grandfather of Max, Nicholas, Zak, Kate, Tess, Cassey and Carrie. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 S
 MILLER-Paul. It is with profound sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member. Devoted to Temple Shaaray Tefila for more than a generation, he will be sorely missed. We express our heartfelt condolences to all his loved ones. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen Saxl, President 
 QUICK-Raymond Crile. The Securities Industry Association-N.Y. District, expresses heartfelt condolences to our Vice Chairman Peter Quick and his wife Crisler on the tragic loss of their beloved son Raymond Crile. David I. Weprin, Chairman Toby Wolf, Exec. Director       
 RITTER-Nathaniel S., M.D. On February 15, 1999. Resident of NYC. Physician in NYC for many years. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, February 21, at 11:45 AM. Interment in Kensico Cemetery. Survived by friend of many years, Franklin Levine & cousin Brad
 SODOWICK-I. Samuel. Greenbrook Country Club deeply mourns the passing of member I. Samuel Sodowick and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Dorothy and to the entire family.       
 WOLLMAN-Steven. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its former member Steven Wollman and extend to his bereaved family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 Thomas A. McMahon, a whimsical American synthesizer who fused sciences in a pioneering academic career in biomechanics even as he blended science and literature, died on Sunday on the way to a hospital near his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 55, and was both the Gordon McKay Professor of A
 Harry Holiday Jr., a former chief executive of the steelmaker Armco Inc. and a world champion swimmer, died on Tuesday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Village of Golf, Fla., and Highlands, N.C. The cause was a heart attack, Terry B. Adamson, his son-in-law, said.      
 Kurt Robert Eissler, the New York psychoanalyst who founded, directed and defended the Sigmund Freud Archives and then handpicked a successor who ended up plunging the archive into a sea of trouble, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Until the 1980's Dr. Eissler 
 Lorin H. Tryon Jr., whose lifelong love of cars made him a leading connoisseur of classic automobiles, died on Feb. 12 at the San Ramon Valley Medical Center in San Ramon, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Danville, Calif. The cause was a heart attack, said the Blackhawk Automotive Muse
 BELFER-Cantor Ben. The Cantorial Alumni Association of the Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion mourns the loss of our esteemed teacher, Hazzan Belfer, who passed on a chain of tradition to generations of cantors. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. May
 BROGGI-Aldo Leo., age 88, architect, on February 18, 1999. Beloved uncle, nephew and friend of many. Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th St, Monday February 22 at 11AM. Interment to follow Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made to St. Vinc
 EISSLER-Kurt R., M.D.. The Board of Trustees of Sigmund Freud Archives expresses its profound condolence to the family, friends and colleagues of Dr. Kurt R. Eissler. Dr. Eissler was one of the Founders, and for many years, the Secretary of Sigmund Freud Archives. He died on February 17, 19
 GAGNEBIN-Albert P.. On February 14, 1999 age 90 in Jupiter, FL. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, February 20 at 11AM at St. George's By-TheRiver, Rumson, NJ. In lieu of flowers a contribution in his memory may be made to Yale University, 
 KENNER-Morton. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai NYU Medical Center and Health System are profoundly saddened by the passing of Morton Kenner, who with his wife Edythe, was a generous supporter of The Mount Sinai Medical Center for many ye
 LERNER-Dr. Joseph. Passedaway peacefully on February 18, 1999 after 88 wonderful years. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne. He will be mourned by his sons Joel, Corey and Gary; his daughters-in-law Tiffini and Susan; his five grandchildren and his many friends and neighbors whom he selfless
 NIEDER-David., 79 years old, of West Palm Beach, FL, died on Wednesday, February 17, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. he was a longtime resident of the Palm Beach area. For information call Quattlebaum - Holleman - Burse Funeral Home, West Palm Beach, FL. 561-832-5171.       
 NIEMANN-Frederick L.., 80, of Lexington, MA. On February 13, 1999. Retired Physicist. Native of St. Joseph, MO. Designer of the frequency modulation system for the Harvard Synchrocyclotron. At Harvard ('55 Ph.D.) he postulated a new form of high-energy elementary particle interaction called
 RITTER-Nathaniel S.., M.D. On February 15, 1999. Resident of NYC. Physician in NYC for many years. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, February 21, at 11:45 AM. Interment in Kensico Cemetery. Survived by friend of many years, Franklin Levine & cousin Bra
 SACHS-Monte., passed away peacefully on February 17, 1999. He is survived by loving wife Ruth, daughter Lisa, son Peter, brother Herb and grandson Jared. His loss is deeply felt not only by his family, but by his many friends. Service will be held Sunday, February 21st at Pacific View Memor
 Gene Siskel, the slighter, intense half of the popular Siskel and Ebert team of dueling movie reviewers, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Chicago, two weeks after leaving the long-running syndicated television program for further recuperation from brain surgery last May.       
 BARACK-Rabbi Nathan A.. February 19, 1999. Esteemed Rabbi, formerly of Congregation Beth El, Sheboygan, Wis., of Newton, MA. Burial in Jerusalem, next to his beloved wife, Lillian, Z'L. Cherished father of Sylvia, Judith & Sandra.       
 BLACK-Sanford. The partners, associates and staff of Teitelbaum, Braverman and Borges mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed counsel, Sandy Black. Our profound sympathies go to Susan, Donna, Gail and Keith and the other members of his family. We shall miss his wit, wisdom and wise advic
 BROGGI-Aldo Leo., age 88, architect, on February 18, 1999. Beloved uncle, nephew and friend of many. Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th St, Monday February 22 at 11AM. Interment to follow Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made to St. Vinc
 ECKSTEIN-Robert. Died February 16, 1999. Age 69. Beloved husband, loving father, grandfather and brother. He will always be in our hearts and deeply missed.       
 ELLENBOGEN-Raphael. Age 74. Formerly of New York City, died peacefully in Columbus, Ohio, Wednesday, February 17, 1999. Loving husband of Florence. A former Administrator at synagogues in New York including the Rego Park Jewish Center and Temple Beth-El in Cedarhurst, L.I. Raphael spent the
 FRAGA-Rafael F.., 75. World War II veteran, recipient of Bronze Star, and native New Yorker, died peacefully at home in California, on February 13th. He was a civil engineer licensed to practice in seven states. Beloved father of Jennifer, William, and Bruce. Grandfather of John and Cassie.
 GLOTZER-Albert. 90. Adored husband of Marguerite, died of cancer February 18. Born in Ivaniki, north of Pinsk, Belarus, he was brought to this country at the age of four. He produced, as verbatim reporter, two volumes of the 1937 John Dewey Commission Report. The Commission exonerated the e
 KENNER-Morton., on February 17, 1999. Beloved and cherished husband of Edythe Kenner, devoted father of Martin, Peter, Robert and step father of Robert Safron. Grandfather of Max, Nicholas, Zack, Kate, Tess, Cassey and Carrie. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81
 LAFFERTY-Donald, Sr. A former pressman with The New York Times in New York City and in Carlstadt, NJ, died Wednesday, February 10, in his home in Northvale, NJ. Born on March 11, 1925, Mr. Lafferty was a Navy veteran who served in World War II. He worked for the New York Herald Tribune for 
 LEVY-William. On February 19, 1999. Adored husband of Henrietta for 63 years. Cherished dad of Jane and Stephen Hirsch. Proud and loving Grandpa of Gary and Victoria, Robert and Andrew. Beloved Papa of Alexander. Dear brother of Joseph and the late Beatrice Lichter. He will be terribly miss
 MARGOLIS-Bern. Died Friday, February 19, 1999 in Harrisburg, PA. Surviving are his wife Leila, daughters Beth Fine of Harrisburg and Katherine Margolis of Ithica, NY, son Tony Margolis of Greenwich, CT, 12 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Graveside services will be held Monday at
 SCHUMER-Harold. Beloved husband of the late Diana Schumer. Devoted and adored father of Jayne, Melissa and Lee. Cherished brother of Etta and Dinah. Loving companion of Tami Shankman with whom he shared wonderful times. You were taken so suddenly, words cannot express how much you will be m
 SCOTTO-Francis A.. Counselor-at -law, age 88, on February 19, 1999. Beloved husband of Madeline for 56 years. The proud and loving father of Josephine Cummings, Marie Rizzi, Raphael, Louis and Michele. Cherished grandfather of nine. A gentleman, loving husband and parent, his kindness, gene
 SIEGAL-Manahiem, M.D.. Age 90. February 19, 1999. Dr. Siegal was a gentleman in the truest sense who believed he was the luckiest man alive. A physician who volunteered to serve his country in WWII, a President of Samaritan Hospital, he faithfully and enthusiastically shared his life with h
 WOLLER-Seymour M.. February 17, in Denville, NJ. Long besieged by Parkinson's disease, Sy died peacefully. His family and friends celebrate his life. Shalom. Isabell Noble Woller       
 Paul Schmidt, a librettist, translator, poet, teacher and actor who collaborated with many major avant-garde theater artists, died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on Friday. He was 65. The cause of death was complications of AIDS, said his brother Jim. Mr. Schmidt wa
 William D. McElroy, a biologist and administrator who never abandoned his first love in research, fireflies, died on Wednesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 82 and lived in San Diego. Dr. McElroy was the director of the National Science Foundation for three years
 Curtis L. Carlson, who borrowed $55 from his landlord in 1938 and didn't look back until he had turned a fledgling grocery store trading stamp company into one of the world's largest private businesses,  died on Friday at a hospital near his home in Minneapolis. He was 84 and had been the s
 Gene Siskel, the slighter, intense half of the popular Siskel and Ebert team of dueling movie reviewers, died Saturday at a hospital near his home in Chicago, two weeks after  leaving the long-running syndicated television program for further recuperation from brain surgery last May. He was
 Marvin Stone, a founder and chairman emeritus of the Stone Container Corporation in Chicago, died Feb. 14 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Stone, 89, also lived in Chicago. Stone Container was started by Mr. Stone, his father and two brothers in 1926 with a $2,300 investment. It 
 ALFAU-Felipe. On February 18, 1999. Author of ''Locos'' and ''Chromos.'' Survived by his loving daughter Chiquita Villet. Mass at 10:45 AM, Tuesday, Resurrection Ascension Church, Rego Park. Interment at St. Raymond's Cemetery.       
 AUGUST-Burton, M.D. Died on February 20, 1999. He will be forever missed by his wife Flora, his children, Dr. Diane August of Bethesda, MD, Dr. Todd August of Houston, TX, Dr. Jeremy August of New Haven, CT, and Dr. Betsy August of Swampscott, MA. He is also survived by his brother Dr. Stan
 BATKIN-William R. Our beloved Billy passed away February 20th in Lake Worth, FL, at the age of 74. Sweet, kind, considerate, he fought valiantly to the end. Loving husband of Lillian, father of Jim (Karen), Bruce (Ferne), grandfather of Marisa, Claudia and Cassidy. Dear brother of Ely (Seen
 BROGGI-Aldo Leo, age 88, architect, on February 18, 1999. Beloved uncle, nephew and friend of many. Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th St, Monday February 22 at 11AM. Interment to follow Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made to St. Vince
 BROWN-Innis. On February 18, 1999. A native of New York City. Innis died at his retirement home in Lauderhaven, Florida, at 82 years of age. Beloved husband of Floryne. Devoted father to Stanley and Kenneth. Dear grandfather of Melissa, Colin, Chris, Joshua and Ethan. Loving great-grandfath
 CARLSON-Curtis L. Minnesota entrepreneur. Founder of Carlson Companies. Mr. Carlson died Friday, February 19, after suffering a stroke on February 10. He was 84. He retained and enjoyed an active role as company chairman until his last day. Born July 9, 1914, in Minneapolis, Mr. Carlson was
 CONATY-Clement J. Of Suffern, NY, died on February 19, 1999. He was 87. Beloved husband, cherished father and grandfather, dear brother-in-law and uncle. Funeral services at Wanamaker and Carlough Funeral Home, Suffern, NY.       
 JOYCE-Michael. Lost his battle with cancer Friday, February 19, 1999. Wake on Sunday, February 21, and Monday, February 22, 1999, at Volk-Leber Funeral Home, 268 Kinderkamack Road, Oradell, NJ, phone 201-261-1088. The funeral is on Tuesday, February 23, at 10 AM, at the Church of the Presen
 MANCUS-Philip. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 SCHOEN-Myron E. On February 19, 1999. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Deborah and Rabbi George Stern, and Marc and Anna Schoen. Loving grandfather of Elana and Joshua Stern. Dear brother of Cyrus. Services Tuesday, February 23, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amst
 Teruo Kawamoto, the head of an organization of victims of Minamata disease, a debilitating illness of the nervous system caused by mercury poisoning, died on Thursday in a hospital in Minamata, a city in southwestern Japan. He was 67 and lived in Minamata. The cause was liver cancer
 CARLSON-Curtis L. Minnesota entrepreneur. Founder of Carlson Companies. Mr. Carlson died Friday, February 19, after suffering a stroke on February 10. He was 84. He retained and enjoyed an active role as company chairman until his last day. Born July 9, 1914, in Minneapolis, Mr. Carlson was
 DONNELLY-Dr. John. West Hartford, CT. Died on February 18, 1999. Born in 1914 and educated in England, he received his medical degree at the University of Liverpool Medical School in 1938. At the end of WWII he entered psychiatric training at the University of London and received his diplom
 ETKIN-Dr. William. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our renowned Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Structural Biology, who joined the founding faculty of our medical school in 1955 and served with great distinction as a teacher and researcher for 
 FEININGER - Andreas. The Trustees and Staff of the International Center of Photography remember with fondness and respect the pioneer photojournalist who for over six decades used the camera to share his curiosity and wonder with the world. We were honored to know him as a friend and will g
 GLOTZER-Albert. Died on February 18th, 1999. He will be long remembered for his commitment to human rights, equality and democracy, and for his historic book about Leon Trotsky (Prometheus Books, Amherst, NY). Al's articulate speaking style and his warm friendship will be missed. From his f
 HARMS-Gerhard. Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are deeply saddened by the death of Gerhard Harms, 92, a respected friend and benefactor of the medical center. Through his support of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, he leaves a legacy to children and their families 
 LAST-Jerry. Survived by his wife, Terry and three children David, Linda, and Robert. We will all miss him.       
 MAASS-Dr. Walter B. of Forest Hills, New York at age 88. Devoted husband of Gabi and, in loving memory, of his late wife Meta. Services Thursday, February 25, 12 noon at the Forest Park Chapel of Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (at 76th Road), Forest Hills, N.Y
 MAGNES-Benedict, 84. Of White Plains, N.Y. died Friday, February 12th, 1999. He is survived by his loving family; his wife Frances, his sons Jeff and Carol Magnes, Joel and Candice Magnes, also three grandchildren John, Andy & Jason Magnes. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, Febru
 MINTZ-Ira, M.D. The Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the death of their esteemed member and colleague, Ira Mintz. A ground-breaking pioneer in the field of psychosomatic medicine, he authored numerous original papers and co-edited three outstanding bo
 NELSON-Franklin. 67. Passed away suddenly. Beloved son of the late Faye and Max, father of Ted (Arelis) and Julie, brother of Joel (Midge), uncle of Nicole (Bill) and Jennifer. Also survived by loving companion Rosemary Provenzano and former wife Eileen. May he rest in peace. Services Wedne
 PERELSON-Paul. Passed away peacefully on February 21, 1999, his 98th birthday would have been on April 18. Devoted husband for 61 years of the late Hannah (Nee Michaelson.) Beloved father of Samuel (Ruth) and Helen (Julian) Levine; adoring grandfather of Lois Perelson (Stewart) Gross and Li
 RICHMAN-Bernard. Park East Synogogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and former Trustee Bernard Richman who with his beloved wife Sheila was a Founder of the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. A caring man of integrity he was a loving father to his children, Hope and Jeffr
 SCHOEN-Myron E. The Officers, Trustees, and staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations note with profound sadness the death of our dear friend and former staff member. A deeply devoted Reform Jew, for some thirty years Myron ably directed the office of Synagogue Administration with
 SEGAL-Jack. In his 90th year. Beloved husband of 65 years of Rose (nee Leventhal). Devoted father of Elinor Hirsch and Howard and the late Norman. Dear grandfather of Karen, Elizabeth, Eric, Jeffrey, Stephanie, Phoebe, Alexis and Sophie. Ecstasic great-grandfather of Ethan. Good and dear fr
 SPERO-Adolph. On February 13, 1999, age 98. Husband of the late Frances (nee Postman). He is survived by his son Richard. After many years as a merchant he turned to executive recruitment. A private service has been held.       
 TISCHLER-David Charles (55) who fought a brave and valiant battle with cancer died peacefully on February 22, 1999. Beloved husband of Leslie Brill. Devoted and loving father of Katy, Daniel, Sarra and Alison. Loving son of Edmund and the late Sara Tischler. Loving and cherished twin brothe
 WEBB-Peter John of Los Angeles, CA. On February 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Joanne. Father of Kingsley, grandfather of James, Charlie and Thomas. Brother of Barbara and Cheryl. An Englishman who moved to America in 1983, Peter will always be remembered for his deeply generous heart and his
 ALLY-Carl J. A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Avenue at 54th Street on Thursday, February 25th at 3PM. A gathering of his friends and family will follow at the Wings Club, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, NYC.       
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/61-2/23/81. Time will never dim his memory. He lives in the hearts of those he left behind. Loving Family       
 Wilmer (Vinegar Bend) Mizell, a fastballing left-hander with a well-publicized country-boy image who pitched for nine seasons in the National League, then served as a Congressman from North Carolina and an official in the Ford and Reagan Administrations, collapsed and died Sunday while visi
 The Rev. Walter Lini, an Anglican priest who led the 83 Melanesian islands of Vanuatu and their 172,000 people to nationhood, died on Sunday. The former Prime Minister was 57 and had governed the country for 11 years before he stepped down in 1991. Father Lini was born on Pentecost,
 Howard Boatwright, a prolific composer who was also a concert violinist, a musicologist and the author of a widely used music theory textbook, died on Saturday at Crouse Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 80 and lived in Fayetteville, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said John H
 BYRNE-Leo Gerald, 79, of Tucson, passed away February 23, 1999. Survived by wife, Antoinette Marie; parents, Patrick and Elizabeth; daughters, Geraldine DiazPeterson, Elizabeth Keswick and Kathleen Azad; son, Michael Byrne. Also survived by nine grandchildren. 4th degree Knights of Columbus
 DIX-George Evertson, 86. Died February 23, 1999, at Collington Episcopal Retirement Community, Mitchellville, MD. Survived by his sister, Mrs. Fenton Keyes, Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA; a nephew and four nieces. Funeral services Parish of Christ the King, 2727 O Street, NW, Washington, D
 ESPY-Willard R., on February 20, 1999, at age 88. Born in Olympia, WA, in 1910, Espy was raised in Oysterville, WA, the village founded in 1854 by his grandfather, R. H. Espy. Beloved husband of Louise M. Espy; devoted father of Mona Espy Schreiber, Freddy M. Plimpton, Joanna P. Espy, and C
 FRIEDLANDER - Daniel. The Board and staff of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation record, with great sorrow, the untimely death of our beloved colleague of almost 20 years. His legacy is vast. A brilliant and innovative econometrician, Dr. Friedlander pioneered in developing many
 HISIGER-Matthew S. Beloved son of James and Dale Hisiger; loving brother of Gerilyn; cherished grandson of Doris Hisiger and Irene Shaffer. We will miss him dearly. Services February 24, 1999, 1 P.M., at Temple Bet Torah, Mt. Kisco, NY. For further information call King David Memorial Chape
 McCLENDON-Warren. The entire Greenwich House community is deeply saddened by the loss of our dedicated colleague, Warren McClendon. For 26 years he was a loved and respected counselor and long time union delegate, who devoted himself to caring for clients and fellow colleagues. We will miss
 PERELSON-Paul. The Touro College family mourns the passing of Paul Perelson, the father of Mr. Samuel Perelson, a long-time advisor and trusted friend of the College. Condolences are also extended to Mr. Samuel Perelson's sister, Helen Levine, and their spouses, children, and grandchildren.
 RICHMAN-Bernard. Prominent leader in the textile industry, known as the ''King of Fine Cottons'', died on February 21 at Mount Sinai Hospital. The cause was gastric cancer. Born on June 18, 1918 in NYC and raised in Brooklyn, is a direct descendant of Rabbi David of Lelov, founder of the Le
 SAPPERSTEIN-Kenneth, age 49, died February 16 at home in New York City. Graduated Elizabeth Irwin High School, 1967, and Ithaca College, 1972. Partner of SHH until 1996. Son of Charlotte and loving father of Clair and Jack. Memorial donations may be sent to his children's Alma Mater, St. Lu
 SASSARATH-Simpson. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Simpson Sassarath. We extend heartfelt symnpathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 SIBLEY-Retired Maj. Gen. Alden Kingsland, 88. Of Brownfield, Maine, and formerly of New York and Washington, D.C. Beloved husband of Elvira (Trowbridge) Sibley. He was on General Eisenhower's Staff during the planning of the invasion of Normandy and was an aide to President Franklin D. Roos
 SKROBELA-Paul. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and esteemed colleaugue. Paul was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with him. His courage and determination continue to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to h
 SMIDINGER-Arthur ''Bud'' L.J., a 50 year resident of Scarborough, passed away at home surrounded by his family Monday, February 22, 1999. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marion A. Smidinger; a son, Peter A. Smidinger; a daughter, Susan Smidinger Brown; a grandson, Eric P. Smidinger;
 ST.CLAIR-Michael. Died February 22, 1999 at age 86. Michael St.Clair was a blue-eyed sweetheart. He was also a knowledgeable art dealer and an authority on Marsden Hartley. He was a capital ''D'' down-the-line non-swerving Democrat who would have voted for the Devil had that little man run 
 TISCHLER-David Charles (55) who fought a brave and valiant battle with cancer died peacefully on February 22, 1999. Beloved husband of Leslie Brill. Devoted and loving father of Katy, Daniel, Sarra and Alison. Loving son of Edmund and the late Sara Tischler. Loving and cherished twin brothe
 Gregory J. Andrews, the president and chief executive of Carson Inc., which makes hair and beauty products for African-Americans, died on Sunday in Johannesburg during a business trip. Mr. Andrews, a resident of Savannah, Ga., was 47. The cause of death has not been determined, said
 BASSOW-Whitman, on February 24, 1999. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Clifford; loving father of Fern Bassow; adored grandfather of Sarah Mellors. Calling hours will be at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81 St.) Tuesday, March 2, 2-4PM and 6-8PM. Donations in his memory may be made 
 BAUMANN-Eddy. Beloved husband of Andrea and father and father-in law of Bettina and Thomas Speyer. Died in his 93rd year on February 21. The interment will be in Huemoz, Switzerland. We shall miss him very much.       
 EDEY-Winthrop. On February 22, 1999 of lymphoma, age 61. Son of the late Maitland and Helen Edey, he was a noted antiquarian horologist who published two books, ''French Clocks'' in 1967 and ''French Clocks in North American Collections'' in 1982, and many articles. Mr. Edey was a consultan
 HISIGER-Matthew S. To our dear friends Dale, Jamie and Gerilyn, we are devastated by your loss. Through you, Matthew was a part of our lives and each of us shares in your pain. We'll always be there for you. The Latham & Watkins Real Estate Group HISIGER-Matthew. A very special youn
 OCRANT-Andrew Martin. Beloved son of Nancy Jeanne Harris, brother of Sara Stump and Ian Ocrant, cousin of Michael Ocrant and Managing Director of Sheldon Good & Company. He was a man of great intelligence and extraordinary charm who greatly enriched the lives of his family and friends. He h
 PECKELIS-Arthur. Aka Artie Peck and Doc. Passed away on February 15, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, NY. He was for many years in the garment industry. He was a generous and well loved man who had many devoted friends especially the police officers of the Midtown South Precinct. Mr. Pecklis is surv
 PERELSON-Paul. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Paul Perelson, beloved father of Sam Perelson, an extraordinary leader, who with his wife, Ruth, has contributed significantly to the welfare and survival of the Jewish people. Sam i
 SAYRES-Joseph. February 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Miriam (Mickey). Devoted father of Laurie and Mindy. Adoring grandfather of Maxwell and Tori Schoen. Loving brother of Michael and Ted Sardinsky. We will all miss him forever. Services today (Thursday), 12 noon, Kirschenbaum's, 1700 Coney
 SCANLON-John J. In New Haven, CT, February 21, 1999, age 89, of North Branford, CT, formerly of Fairfield, husband of Mildred Colvard Scanlon, retired Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer with AT&T. Funeral services Thursday, February 25, 1999 at 11:00 A.M. in Trinity Episco
 SCHMIDT-Paul. The staff of the ''New World Theater'' Project at Beth Hatefutsoth, the Museum of the Diaspora, Tel Aviv, mourns the death of our dear friend and collaborator, Paul Schmidt. We will miss the talent, erudition and kindness of this great gentlemen. May his memory be a blessing. 
 SKROBELA-Paul. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and esteemed colleague. Paul was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with him. His courage and determination continue to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to hi
 ST. CLAIR-Michael. Died February 22, 1999 at age 86. Michael St.Clair was a blue-eyed sweetheart. He was also a knowledgeable art dealer and an authority on the works of Marsden Hartley. He was a capital ''D'' down-theline non-swerving Democrat who would have voted for the Devil had that li
 VON LIEBIG-William, inventor, entrepreneur, lover of music and art. We were privileged to know him. Father of our dear daughterin-law Barbara and her husband William Thomashower and loving grandfather of Charley and David. His development of the artificial heart artery and other medical dev
 YOUNG-George Webster. Passed away February 16th. He was the husband of Aleise (McMinn) Young. Born in Manhattan November 4, 1919, son of the late John W. & Emma (Webster) Young. He was graduate of Yale University and Harvard Graduate School of Business. After serving as an officer in the Na
 Willard R. Espy, who had such a winsome way with words, such an elegant ear for rhyme and such a sure sense of the absurd that he once began a poem with the words ''I do not roister with an oyster,'' died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 88 and had elevated wordplay to a career, as 
 William M. Bronk, a poet known for the philosophical depth of his work, died on Monday at his home in Hudson Falls, N.Y. He was 81. He had emphysema and died of respiratory failure, said his editor, Edward Foster. Mr. Bronk, who was descended from Jonas Bronck, for whom the 
 Andre Dubus, a prize-winning author celebrated for his short stories in ''Dancing After Hours'' and other collections, died Wednesday at his home in Haverhill, Mass. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said Gabrielle Brooks, a representative of Mr. Dubus's publisher, Alfred A. 
 Charles Blitzer, a founder and director emeritus of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington and a past president of Phi Beta Kappa, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71. The cause was pulmonary disease, his family said. Dr. Blitzer f
 ATIYEH-Fred E. A longtime resident of Manhasset, New York, passed away on February 17 at St. Francis Hospital, after celebrating his 90th birthday on Valentine's Day. He was predeceased several years ago by his wife, Irmaine. He is survived by his son, Steven, of Brooklyn, New York, and his
 AUGUST-Burton M., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research and the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Burton August. Dr. August was a 1957 graduate of the Center and a life member of the Association. H
 BASSOW-Whitman, on February 24, 1999. Beloved husband of Elizabeth Clifford; loving father of Fern Bassow; adored grandfather of Sarah Mellors. Calling hours will be at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81 St.) Tuesday, March 2, 2-4PM and 6-8PM. Donations in his memory may be made 
 BLOCK-Max, Jr. Passed away Sunday, February 21, 1999. He was predeceased by his wife Ruth. Rarely has there been anyone who touched so many people, with his love, wisdom, giving and wit, especially to his family, his daughters and son-in-law, Gloria Block & Dr. Jonathan Harris; and Juliet B
 COHEN-Philip, M.D. The Brooklyn Alumni Club PLK-MSAS mourns the passing of their beloved frater and express their deep sympathy to his wife Fay and the family       
 EDEY-Winthrop. On February 22, 1999 of lymphoma, age 61. Son of the late Maitland and Helen Edey, he was a noted antiquarian horologist who published two books, ''French Clocks'' in 1967 and ''French Clocks in North American Collections'' in 1982, and many articles. Mr. Edey was a consultan
 GALANT-Morris of Boca Raton, Fl and formerly of Great Neck, NY. Devoted husband of the late Goldy. Loving father of Jeffrey, Paul, Richard and Lance. Dear brother of Abraham and the late Lou and Joseph. Cherished grandfather of Felice, Eric, Gregory, Giuliana and Glen. Services 1:30 Sunday 
 HINKLEY-David R. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of David R. Hinkley, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 KULICK-Joyce G. The Board of Directors and staff of The Children's Institute express our heartfelt condolences to Leonard Kulick and his family on the loss of Joyce G. Kulick, wife, mother, grandmother; a dear friend and supporter of The Children's Institute. Edward S. Nathan, Esq, Pres Bru
 LEVINE-Solomon, Ph.D. Of North Woodmere, NY on Thursday, February 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Beatrice (nee Stern). Devoted father of Robert (Mana), Ronnie (Ira). Loving grandfather of Brian, David and Annie. Deeply loved by family and friends because of his wisdom, kindness, humor and car
 NEUMAN-Irving. In his 100th year died peacefully at his home on February 25th. Beloved husband of the late Bertha. Loving father of Herbert and his wife Stephanie, Sheldon and Marvin. Dear grandfather of Elena and Jay, Jonah, Rachel and Richard, Justin, Andrew, Matthew and Sara. Great grand
 OCRANT-Andrew Martin. Beloved son of Nancy Jeanne Harris, brother of Sara Stump and Ian Ocrant, cousin of Michael Ocrant and Managing Director of Sheldon Good & Company. He was a man of great intelligence and extraordinary charm who greatly enriched the lives of his family and friends. He h
 POTTER-Cary. The Trustees of St. Andrew's Dune Church mourn the death of Cary Potter, Trustee Emeritus, with 45 years of service, the longest serving Trustee of the 66 men and women who have served as Trustees since 1879. We will miss his friendship, counsel and constant generosity. We give
 SPEIGHT-Randolph L. Resident of Smith's Parish, Bermuda, suddenly in Mexico, Friday February 19, 1999. Beloved husband of June. Devoted father of Junie, Craig and Rand. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, February 27, at 2PM at Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Chapel (7 West 55 St).      
 YEH-Chen Shin. At age 80 on February 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Huang) for 49 years. Loving father of Logos, Ruby, father-in-law of Margaret and uncle of cherished niece, Julie. Graduate of Sun Yat-Sen/Huachung University with a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering and
 Sir Anthony Nutting, a Deputy Foreign Secretary who sacrificed a potentially brilliant political career by resigning over Britain's involvement in the 1956 attack on Suez, died of heart failure at his home in London on Tuesday. He was 79. He had been the youngest member of Winston C
 Gen. Andre Devigny, a legendary figure in the French Resistance for his escape from the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie's prison in German-occupied Lyons during World War II, has died at his home in Hauteville-sur-Fier, France. General Devigny, whose dash to freedom inspired the French director 
 Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, leader of the scientific team that created plutonium -- the fuel used in the atomic bomb that destroyed Nagasaki in 1945 -- died on Thursday night at his home in Lafayette, Calif. Dr. Seaborg, who was 86, died of complications of a stroke he suffered last Augus
 Jose Quintero, the director whose reverent stagings of ''The Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' led to a worldwide revival of interest in the Nobel Prize  plays of Eugene O'Neill, died yesterday. He was 74 and lived in Sarasota, Fla. The cause was cancer, said Rob
 Stanley Dance, a jazz critic, Ellington specialist and record producer, died on Tuesday at the Remington Club in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Vista, Calif. Mr. Dance is perhaps best known as a member of Duke Ellington's close-knit group of friends, and for nearly 7
 The name Cockburn's means port to many aficionados around the world. But grape farmers in the ruggedly mountainous Douro River valley of Portugal still call the shipper Casa Smithes. To them it is irrelevant that John Henry Smithes, who died in England on Jan. 22 at the age of 88, r
 Michael St. Clair, director of the Babcock Galleries in Manhattan for 40 years and an influential dealer in American art, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and also had a home on Fire Island, N.Y. A dapper, exquisitely mannered man who rarely talked about himself, M
 ALLON-Victor. Beloved husband of 51 years to Agnes, loving father to Richard and Tom, loving fatherin-law to Janet, and adoring grandfather of Jonah and Tess. His intense devotion and strength will be long remembered by all who were touched by him. Apu, we will miss you. Services Sunday noo
 CARLSON-Curtis. The Board and staff of the Children's Museum of Manhattan mourn the passing of Curtis Carlson, grandfather of the Museum's Vice Chairman, Diana Nelson, and father of our wonderful friend, Marilyn Nelson. His devotion to family and community is evident in the work of his enti
 CARLSON-Curtis L. Minnesota entrepreneur. Founder of Carlson Companies. Mr. Carlson died Friday, February 19, after suffering a stroke on February 10. He was 84. He retained and enjoyed an active role as company chairman until his last day. Born July 9, 1914, in Minneapolis, Mr. Carlson was
 DICKLER-Gerald. The family of Gerald Dickler invites his friends to attend a memorial service on Thursday, March 4th at 10AM at ABC, Inc., 77 West 66 St, 22nd flr.       
 DONNELLY-Dr. John. West Hartford, CT. Died on February 18, 1999. Born in 1914 and educated in England, he received his medical degree at the University of Liverpool Medical School in 1938. At the end of WWII he entered psychiatric training at the University of London and received his diplom
 ETKIN-Dr. William. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our renowned Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Structural Biology, who joined the founding faculty of our medical school in 1955 and served with great distinction as a teacher and researcher for 
 FEININGER - Andreas. The Trustees and Staff of the International Center of Photography remember with fondness and respect the pioneer photojournalist who for over six decades used the camera to share his curiosity and wonder with the world. We were honored to know him as a friend and will g
 GERRY-Elbridge T. Died on February 26, at the age of 90, following a short illness at his home in Delhi, NY. Survived by his wife of 67 years, Marjorie Kane, two sons Elbridge T. Jr., of Locust Valley, NY, and Peter G. of Hopewell, NJ, a daughter Marjorie G. Ryland of Beverly, MA, two broth
 GERSHWIN-Sam. Chemical engineer and writer of plays and poetry. At the age of 83 on February 24. He will be remembered at VJ Company and by his friends and relatives. His loss is mourned by his devoted wife Seena Gershwin, his children Vicki Amster and David Gershwin, his grandchildren Holl
 GLOTZER-Albert. Died on February 18th, 1999. He will be long remembered for his commitment to human rights, equality and democracy, and for his historic book about Leon Trotsky (Prometheus Books, Amherst, NY). Al's articulate speaking style and his warm friendship will be missed. From his f
 GOLD-Abraham. Died peacefully at 96 in his Boca Raton home on February 26, 1999. He is survived by his loving daughters, Lois Schauber and Marilyn Laurie; his grandchildren Marc, Paul, Nancy, Amy and Lisa; his seven greatgrandchildren; his devoted sisters Lillie and Surie and his brother Ma
 GOLDWATER-John L. On February 26, 1999. Creator of Archie Comics, Founder and past President of the Comics Magazine Association of America, past President of New York Society for the Deaf, National Commissioner of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith, Poet Laureate, listed in Who's Who
 GOULD-Maxwell M., M.D., 77, passed away after a long, courageous fight against malignant melanoma. Much loved and loving husband for fifty-one years of Marilyn, nee Engle. Adored father of Cheryl and Jeffrey McKensie, Alan Gould, Barry Gould, and Melinda and Jonathan Gould. Grandfather of J
 GREENBERG-Perry, of Great Neck, NY and Aventura, FL, passed away on February 25, 1999, after a short illness. He is survived by his loving wife Pearl of 57 years, his daughters, Sheila (Dr. Charles) Haas, Phyllis (Marc) Beitler, and Suzanne Rudman, grandchildren, Andrew Haas, Gary (Keri) Ha
 GRIFFIN-John William ''Bill.'' Of New York. Died February 25, 1999. He was a member of the Kentuckians. Memorial service will be Friday, March 5, at 1 PM, at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. Contributions in his name to Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, New York 100
 HARMS-Gerhard. Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are deeply saddened by the death of Gerhard Harms, 92, a respected friend and benefactor of the medical center. Through his support of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, he leaves a legacy to children and their families 
 KARGER-Kenneth R., 55. Photographer; scholarly enthusiast of Rolls-Royce and Bentley motor cars; recently retired editor, with Mermie Karger, his wife and collaborator of 32 years, of the RollsRoyce Owners' Club's respected periodical, The Flying Lady. A long time resident of the Philadelph
 LAST-Jerry. Survived by his wife, Terry and three children David, Linda, and Robert. We will all miss him.       
 LEVINE-Solomon, Ph.D. Of North Woodmere, NY on Thursday, February 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Beatrice (nee Stern). Devoted father of Robert (Mana), Ronnie (Ira). Loving grandfather of Brian, David and Annie. Deeply loved by family and friends because of his wisdom, kindness, humor and car
 MAASS-Dr. Walter B. of Forest Hills, New York at age 88. Devoted husband of Gabi and, in loving memory, of his late wife Meta. Services Thursday, February 25, 12 noon at the Forest Park Chapel of Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (at 76th Road), Forest Hills, N.Y
 MAGNES-Benedict, 84. Of White Plains, N.Y. died Friday, February 12th, 1999. He is survived by his loving family; his wife Frances, his sons Jeff and Carol Magnes, Joel and Candice Magnes, also three grandchildren John, Andy & Jason Magnes. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, Febru
 MATTONE-Vincent J. Of Locust, NJ. 54 years of age, died at home Wednesday, February 24, 1999. Vincent J. Mattone was a former member of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors of the Bear Stearns Corporation. Mr. Mattone started at Bear Stearns in July of 1979 as a Limited Partne
 MINTZ-Ira, M.D. The Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York mourn the death of their esteemed member and colleague, Ira Mintz. A ground-breaking pioneer in the field of psychosomatic medicine, he authored numerous original papers and co-edited three outstanding bo
 NELSON-Franklin. 67. Passed away suddenly. Beloved son of the late Faye and Max, father of Ted (Arelis) and Julie, brother of Joel (Midge), uncle of Nicole (Bill) and Jennifer. Also survived by loving companion Rosemary Provenzano and former wife Eileen. May he rest in peace. Services Wedne
 NEUMAN-Irving. In his 100th year died peacefully at his home on February 25th. Beloved husband of the late Bertha. Loving father of Herbert and his wife Stephanie, Sheldon and Marvin. Dear grandfather of Elena and Jay, Jonah, Rachel and Richard, Justin, Andrew, Matthew and Sara. Great grand
 PECKELIS-Arthur. Aka Artie Peck and Doc. Passed away on February 15, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, NY. He was for many years in the garment industry. He was a generous and well loved man who had many devoted friends especially the police officers of the Midtown South Precinct. Mr. Pecklis is surv
 PERELSON-Paul. Passed away peacefully on February 21, 1999, his 98th birthday would have been on April 18. Devoted husband for 61 years of the late Hannah (Nee Michaelson.) Beloved father of Samuel (Ruth) and Helen (Julian) Levine; adoring grandfather of Lois Perelson (Stewart) Gross and Li
 REYNOLDS-Edward J. Rev. Msgr. 78, on February 26 at Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home. Born October 16, 1920, Bronx, NY. He was ordained December 1, 1945 and was pastor at St. Patrick's in Verplanck, NY from 1973 to 1977. He taught at Cardinal Hayes High School from 1949 to 1952 and was Admin
 RICHMAN-Bernard. Park East Synogogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and former Trustee Bernard Richman who with his beloved wife Sheila was a Founder of the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. A caring man of integrity he was a loving father to his children, Hope and Jeffr
 ROBINSON-George M.D. On February 24. Dr. Robinson is survived by his wife, Arline Bakal Robinson, three children, Marjorie Williams, Susanna Kaminsky and James Robinson. A son, Kevin Robinson, predeceased him. He is survived by six grandchildren, Cheyenne, Andrew, Lauren, Jasper, Jeffrey an
 RUBENSTEIN-Robert M. On February 26, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian and Grace. Devoted to his daughter Gail; stepchildren Richard and Marcia; and six grandchildren, Erika, Andrea, Seth, Jeffrey, Stephen and Debra. A man of quiet strength and character. He loved his family deeply 
 SCHOEN-Myron E. The Officers, Trustees, and staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations note with profound sadness the death of our dear friend and former staff member. A deeply devoted Reform Jew, for some thirty years Myron ably directed the office of Synagogue Administration with
 SCHOENBACH-Sol, on February 25th, 1999. Husband of the late Bertha (nee Karp) of Philadelphia. Father of Peter J. Schoenbach. Grandfather of Alisa and Ilana. Services and interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Kardon Institute of Music for the Handicapped. Joseph 
 SEGAL-Jack. In his 90th year. Beloved husband of 65 years of Rose (nee Leventhal). Devoted father of Elinor Hirsch and Howard and the late Norman. Dear grandfather of Karen, Elizabeth, Eric, Jeffrey, Stephanie, Phoebe, Alexis and Sophie. Ecstasic great-grandfather of Ethan. Good and dear fr
 SHANDELL-Edward. We mourn the loss of an elegant and wonderful gentleman. He was ''Poppy'' to all. Dede and Michael Thea       
 SLEVIN-John Joseph, 59. Formerly of New York, died Thursday, February 18th, 1999, in Sioux City Iowa, after a lengthy illness. He was born in New York to Neil C. and Adele (Duignan) Slevin. He married Amy Pisani in 1964. Survivors include his wife; a daughter, Christine Slevin; a son, Neil;
 SPERO-Adolph. On February 13, 1999, age 98. Husband of the late Frances (nee Postman). He is survived by his son Richard. After many years as a merchant he turned to executive recruitment. A private service has been held.       
 THOMPSON-Gerald R. ''Jerry'' Of Fort Lee, NJ, died February 24, 1999 at his residence at the age of 73. He had spent his entire career with old Hudson's Bay Company having started in his native Montreal and later assuming posts in London and New York. He rose from warehouse manager to Presi
 WEBB-Peter John of Los Angeles, CA. On February 18, 1999. Beloved husband of Joanne. Father of Kingsley, grandfather of James, Charlie and Thomas. Brother of Barbara and Cheryl. An Englishman who moved to America in 1983, Peter will always be remembered for his deeply generous heart and his
 WILLIAMS-Gordon Page. Of Mitchelville, MD. Died February 23, age 90, at Prince George's Hospital, Maryland. He had suffered a stroke. He had been the husband of the late Caroline Schwab Williams and father of Roger Clark Williams (Jericho, VT), Anne Gordon Paley (Sharon, CT) and Laura Page 
 ALLY-Carl J. A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Avenue at 54th Street on Thursday, February 25th at 3PM. A gathering of his friends and family will follow at the Wings Club, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, NYC.       
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/61-2/23/81. Time will never dim his memory. He lives in the hearts of those he left behind. Loving Family       
 Winthrop K. Edey, who found nothing so fascinating as the mechanical clarity of antique clocks and the minutiae of his own offbeat life, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, near his home on the Upper West Side. He was 61 and had devoted his life to assembling one of the 
