 Elliot L. Richardson, the archetype of the cultivated New England Brahmin who served in an astonishingly broad range of high public positions, and who was best known for his refusal during Watergate to obey President Richard M. Nixon's order to fire a special prosecutor, died yesterday in h
 BAUER-Lillian. December 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jules L. Bauer. Loving mother of Peter M. Bauer and his wife Emily Bauer. Cherished grandmother of David A. Bauer and Victoria Nadler and great-grandmother of Audrey and Stephen Nadler. Devoted sister of Alice G. Fish and Irene G. B
 CAVALUZZO-Christopher A.. Age 46. On December 28, 1999. Long-time resident of Manhattan. Beloved son of Edith and the late John Cavaluzzo. Brother of the late Marcus. Yale University, class of 1975. He will be remembered for his keen intellect, quick wit and his generousity toward those in 
 REESE-William Willis. The Board of Assistants of The Society of Mayflower Descendants in the State of NY mourn the death of our Deputy Governor, William Willis Reese. His generosity, loyalty and warmth of spirit will be sorely missed. We extend our sympathies to his widow, Sonia Van Voorhis
 ROWLEY-Louis N.. Jr. Age 90 of Shelton, CT., formerly of Port Washington, L.I., on December 30, 1999. Beloved husband of Maybelle ''Billie'' (nee Chemidlin) for over 66 years, he is also survived by his sons; Rev. Louis E. Rowley of Mount Vernon, New York, Robert S. Rowley of Danbury, CT, a
 BARISON-David Andrew. September 26, 1964-January 1, 1995. ''Do not let your grief be measured by his worth, for then your sorrow has no end.'' Mom, Dad, Steven, Amy, Gregg, Jessica and Billy       
 Ray Hubbard, a television producer and broadcasting executive and a pioneer in the medium, died on Monday in Kenwood, Calif. He was 75 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease. Mr. Hubbard was vice president for programming and production at Post-Newsweek Stations in Washingt
 Sam Shapiro, a health care analyst and biostatistician whose studies in the 1960's proved that mammograms saved women's lives by catching breast cancers at an early, treatable stage, died on Thursday at his home in Baltimore. He was 85. Professor Shapiro, working with Dr. Philip Str
 Thomas Francis Lambert Jr., a law professor and dean who served as a trial lawyer for the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg after the defeat of Nazi Germany, died on Wednesday at his home in Boston. He was 85. For the past 27 years, until last May, Professor Lambert taugh
 Copeland H. Marks, the author of 16 cookbooks who traveled the world in search of remote and exotic cuisines, died last week in his apartment in Brooklyn Heights. He was 78. Mr. Marks had been in the Foreign Service and the import-export business before getting a late start writing 
 Fred Saigh, a former owner of the St. Louis Cardinals who was forced out of baseball in 1953 when he was sentenced to federal prison for income-tax evasion but kept the team in St. Louis by selling it to the locally based Anheuser-Busch brewery, died Wednesday at a hospital in Chesterfield,
 BAUER-Lillian. December 30, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Jules L. Bauer. Loving mother of Peter M. Bauer and his wife Emily Bauer. Cherished grandmother of David A. Bauer and Victoria Nadler and great-grandmother of Audrey and Stephen Nadler. Devoted sister of Alice G. Fish and Irene G. B
 GLUCK-Samuel E.. A mining geologist, engineer, and philosopher. Age 74, on December 31, 1999. Survived by wife Phyllis Gold Gluck; sons Josiah, Theodore and Sebastian; sister-in-law Zina Gold Stern (Dr. Ernest Stern); and cousins. BA Ohio State; Colorado School of Mines; Ph.D. in Philosophy
 HSIEH-Jui Sheng, Ph.D.. Age 78, of Southport, CT, beloved husband of Mary Wang Hsieh, died on Thursday, December 30, 1999 in Bridgeport, CT. Born in China, he came to the U.S. in 1948 and had lived in Belle Mead, NJ for 22 years before moving to CT in 1998. Dr. Hsieh graduated from Wuhan Un
 NEUHOFF-John R.. Of New York, New York, and Annapolis, MD, on December 28th, 1999, at age 75. Beloved husband of 50 years to Mary Hunter Neuhoff. Devoted father fo Christopher of New York, NY, Elizabeth Neuhoff Doughty (Richard) of Arnold, MD, Jerome (Katherine) of New York, New York, Cortl
 REESE-William W.. The Officers, Directors and Members of the New England Society in the City of New York greatly mourn the sudden and untimely passing of our devoted president-elect, William W. Reese. As a member and director for many years, he gave caringly and unselfishly to the Society. 
 SAMUELS-Jerome. Age 88. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Father of Richard, Jesse, Beth, Janet, Susan and Cary. Grandfather of Debra, Sarah, Nancy, David, Matthew, Glenn, Moshe and Emily. Great-grandfather of Benjamin and Eve. Beloved brother. Donations may be made to the Hebrew Home an
 SHEABER-Myron. The Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York marks with profound sorrow the passing of Mike Sheaber, our distinguished colleague, who served with dedication for so many years as a member of the CFA Board of Directors in support of research and scholarship grant program
 STEINAM-William N. ''Bill''. A Greenwich, CT. resident, died on December 23, 1999 at Greenwich Hospital in his 95th year. Born April 26, 1904 in New York City, he was a son of the late Joseph and Edna Foster Steinam. He attended Harvard University and was an expert in commercial real estate
 WHITE - BOWER - Robert. Of Southampton, NY and West Palm Beach, FL on December 30, 1999. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Mary F. and son Robert E. Survived by his sister, Josephine Driscoll of Harrietsham, Kent County, England. Visitation at the J.M. O'Connell Funeral Home, 30 Little Plain
 Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr., who as chief of naval operations in the early 1970's ordered the Navy to end racial discrimination and demeaning restrictions on sailors, then faced a haunting personal anguish that he attributed to the defoliant Agent Orange, died yesterday at the Duke University 
 BALDWIN-John Low, Dr. On December 31, 1999. Esteemed and beloved conductor, dear friend, revered teacher. For 38 years his dedication and devotion gave great joy and inspiration to hundreds of our members. He generously shared his unique personality, humor, wisdom, and musical gifts touchin
 ELLIOTT-Timothy Charles Venn. Tim, passed away at home in Manhattan, early morning December 30 after a short but courageous battle with pancreatic cancer, at age 51. Born in Dorset, England, educated at Harrow School, Cambridge University, and in the far flung reaches of the world, Tim's hu
 EPSTEIN-Nathan B. Age 89, of Tarrytown, NY, died January 2, 2000. Beloved father of Barbara (Paul) Rigney and Susan (Kevin) Bannon. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Katie Bannon. Senior Vice-President of Lerner Stores Corporation. Former Board member of American Retail Foundation, past 
 FOX-Jerome B. Loving husband of Marcia. Adored son of Betty Fox Maged and the late Henry Fox. Stepson of Myron Maged. Much loved father of Erika, Jonathan, and Barbara. Dear fatherin-law of Kristen Fox and Dr. Richard Eden. Grandfather of Shoshan. Loving brother-in-law of John and Kayla Nil
 KIRK-Edward J. On January 1, 2000, age 68, of Oradell. Beloved husband of Bridget C. Kirk (nee Griffin). Loving father of Eamonn of Montaque, Stephen of Washington Township, Kevin of Washington Township, Brian of Clifton, Kathleen Bogue of Emerson, and Regina Kirk of the Bronx. Dear brother
 LEVY-Jim. Died January 1, 2000, at age 69 in Raleigh, NC. Loving father of Dr. Laurance Levy and his wife Vera of East Hampton, CT. Loving grandfather of Alexis, Marissa, and Bethany. Beloved brother of Dr. Roger Levy and his wife Judy of NYC and cherished uncle of Dr. Clifford Levy and his
 MacINTOSH-Herbert George. Of Irvington, NY. Former Senior Vice President of Brooks Brothers. Died January 1, 2000. Survived by his wife Jean Otto MacIntosh. Father of Barbara Sikorski, Susan Gleason, William and Donald MacIntosh. Also survived by six grandchildren. Visiting Wednesday, 2-4 a
 MANN-Herman, Rabbi. Age 101, on January 1, 2000. Husband of the late Lillian Maltzman, father of Pearl Turkel (Myron), Frances, Jerome (Pearl), Mitchell (Aviva) and the late Jonah (Hilda) Mann, grandfather and great-grandfather. His passionate devotion to Torah study and teaching and his li
 MARKS-Sol. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn the sad passing of Sol Marks, Honorary Trustee and staunch benefactor for over 25 years. His sophisticated understanding and dedicated efforts were influential in expanding the Foundation's grant programs and ad
 NATHANSOHN-Jacob. Age 82, on December 31, 1999. Mourned by his beloved brother Saul, dear friend Marianne Schreibman and cousins.       
 RACHLIN-Carl. Age 82, January 1, 2000. The New York City Correction Officers' Benevolent Association deeply mourns the passing of Carl Rachlin, an energetic and passionate advocate of the cause of the correction officers of New York City, and longtime advisor and guide to COBA President Nor
 REESE-William Willis. The St. Nicholas Society of the City of New York expresses its deep sorrow at the death of its devoted member, loyal supporter and Second Vice President and sends its deepest sympathy to his widow, Sonia, his mother, and his entire family. John Milnes Baker, President 
 RICHARDSON-Elliot L. The directors of College Savings Bank, with profound sorrow, mourn the passing of our former director. His commitment to making higher education more accessible led to the establishment of our institution and the Education Individual Retirement Account. His dedication, 
 SALTZMAN-Renny B. Of New York and East Hampton, January 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Elizabeth and David. Devoted father-in-law of Elizabeth Doyle. Cherished grandfather of Jack and Teddy. Renny died peacefully, surrounded by his family, after a heroic struggle with l
 SLADKUS-John H. K. The offficers and staff of Peter Sharp & Co., Inc., express their profound sorrow over the passing of our esteemed officer, John Sladkus. His leadership and direction was of great encouragement to everyone who was associated with him. Our heartfelt condolences are extende
 SPERBER-Eric, 74. December 29, 1999. Survived by his wife Faith, his son Marc and a granddaughter Hannah. Father of the late Sharon.       
 TARRY-Graham M. Of Mill Neck, NY, died on the first day of the new millennium. Beloved husband of Susan. Cherished father of Mark and Jordan. Devoted son of Basil and Winifred Tarry of Cubert, Cornwall, UK. President of Planned Business Development, Inc., of Mill Neck, NY, USA. and Planned 
 Shankar Dayal Sharma, the emotional but decisive president of India in the turbulent years from 1992 to 1997, died on Dec. 26 in a hospital in New Delhi. He was 81 and lived in New Delhi. A longtime member of the Congress Party, he was its president for a time. Dr. Sharma, whose doc
 Agis Salpukas, a reporter for The New York Times who covered business news for much of his career, died yesterday. He was 60 and lived in Tenafly, N.J. His body was found in the Hudson River off Manhattan, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner. He
 Carl Rachlin, a New York labor and civil rights lawyer who rallied to the defense of Freedom Riders and sit-in demonstrators during the 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his family said. At the time of the most intense
 Jeshajahu Weinberg, the first director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum here and one of the principal forces behind its creation, died on Saturday in Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv. He was 81. Mr. Weinberg served as the museum's director from its beginning in 1989 until 
 Nat Adderley, a jazz cornetist and trumpeter who was a frequent collaborator with his brother, the saxophonist Cannonball Adderley, and a composer whose style popularized a melodic, bluesy, secular gospel-jazz, died on Sunday at a hospice in Lakeland, Fla. He was 68 and lived in Lakeland.  
 BALDWIN-John Low, Dr. On December 31, 1999. Esteemed and beloved conductor, dear friend, revered teacher. For 38 years his dedication and devotion gave great joy and inspiration to hundreds of our members. He generously shared his unique personality, humor, wisdom, and musical gifts touchin
 BENJAMIN-Dr. Bernard. Formerly of Brooklyn NY. On January 1, 2000 at age 96. Noted pediatric physician who first identified pernicious anemia in children. A Research Fellow at the Rockefeller Institute. He was also a Professor at the State Univerity of New York, Downstate Medical Center at 
 CHASER-Conrad. The Officers and Employees of G & G are deeply shocked by the sudden passing of our Plant Manager, Director and dear friend. Connie was a loyal Executive Officer for over fifty years and served us in many capacities with manifold talents. His loss will be irreparable and the 
 COHEN-Max. On January 2, 2000. Beloved husband of 51 years of the late Ronnie. Cherished father of Lauri and Gail. Adored grandfather of Emily, Matt, Michael and Jason. Devoted brother of Abe; sister-in-law of Evelyn. Loving father-in-law of Jeff and Perry. A dear friend to many. He will be
 COYNE-John J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John Joseph Coyne, an Active Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Junior Historian   
 CRANDALL-Roland D. Of Greenwich, Ct. on January 2, 2000. Survived by his wife Edna and his daughter Mary Ann. A graduate of Greenwich High School, he served in the Army Air Force 3 years stationed in India. Later graduated from the University of South Carolina in 1950 with a degree in Busin
 FENNER-Theodore, Ph.D. Beloved husband of Lee, brother of Jim and Dick, teacher, scholar, author, music lover, and friend, died in Potsdam, NY on January 3rd, 2000 at age 80. He will be missed.       
 FFOLLIOTT-John Harvie, of Eastham, MA, formerly of South Orange, NJ died Saturday, January 1, 2000 at age 93. A graduate of the School of Mines at the University of Minnesota, he spent his career in mining and exploration activities with Tennessee Corp., Miami Copper Company and Cities Serv
 FOX-Jerome B. Loving husband of Marcia. Adored son of Betty Fox Maged and the late Henry Fox. Stepson of Myron Maged. Much loved father of Erika, Jonathan, and Barbara. Dear fatherin-law of Kristen Fox and Dr. Richard Eden. Grandfather of Shoshan. Loving brother-in-law of John and Kayla Nil
 FRIEDMAN-Jack, a retired dentist of Brooklyn, NY, age eightynine, passed away on January 3, 2000. He was the beloved husband of Sylvia, dear father to Richard and loved father-in-law to Arlene, and cherished grandfather to Barbara and Joshua. His generosity and kindness will always be remem
 GAYNER-Dr. Irving C., Manhattan, formerly of Forest Hills, died on January 2 at age 87. Pre-deceased by his wife of 46 years, Esther Kasman Gayner, survived by his son Stephen, of New York City and Jay of San Francisco, and his grandchildren Samantha and Gillian. Practiced dentistry in East
 GORDON - William. UNITE mourns Bill Gordon, a former TWUA vice-president, who fought for working people. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy. Wednesday, January 5, 11:00 AM, New Montefiore Cemetery, Pine Lawn, NJ. Bruce Raynor, Treasurer, UNITE       
 HORN-Harvey. Suddenly, on January 2, 2000 at age 76. Beloved husband for 53 years of Irene. Loving and devoted father of Philip and Margot, Janet, David and Kim, Joanne and Carolyn. Cherished grandfather of Emily, Jason, Amanda and Benjamin. A man of inate strength, integrity and noble char
 KADIN-Murray H. On December 31, 1999. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Alysa (Peter). Dear brother of Saul. May his memory be a blessing among the mourners of Zion. Janet and Eric Alan and Jackie       
 LEAMY-James P. 87, in Clifton Park, NY, formerly of Bronx, NY, died January 2, 2000. Son of the late Patrick & Josephine Leamy, husband of the late Madeline O'Brien, Emma McBride, & Marjorie Stragfeld Leamy. He was a NYC Police officer from 1936-1956. Survived by daughter, Mary Ellen Smith,
 MARKS-Sol. Age 91. Devoted husband of the late Rosalie Rosenberg, much loved father of Jill Siegelheim and Bonnie Langer, dear father-in-law of Hy Langer and cherished grandfather of Adam and Matthew Siegelheim and beloved uncle to many nieces and nephews. He was a past Chancellor of King S
 MCGEE - William celebrated American painter, collagist, died Pawling, NY, Christmas day. Assistant and Associate Professor: Brown University, Hunter College, Lehman College. Exhibited: Borgenicht Gallery, Max Hutchinson Gallery, Leslie Cecil Gallery. In collections: Dallas Museum, Albright-
 MURPHY-Michael. On January 1, 2000. Loving husband of Carmel (Sheila). Devoted father of Douglas. Dear brother of Maureen Hoesl. He will be dearly missed by family and friends. Reposing Krtil Funeral Home; Yorkville Funeral Service, Inc., 1297 1st Ave, NYC Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Mass of Chr
 NEUHOFF-John R. Of New York, New York, and Annapolis, MD, on December 28th, 1999, at age 75. Beloved husband of 50 years to Mary Hunter Neuhoff. Devoted father fo Christopher of New York, NY, Elizabeth Neuhoff Doughty (Richard) of Arnold, MD, Jerome (Katherine) of New York, New York, Cortla
 OSTROW-Sidney, died January 1,2000. Beloved husband of Rose, loving father of Linda and Bruce Lawrence, Joan and David Gottlieb, idolized grandfather of Rand and Tracy Lawrence, Nicky and Jordon Gottlieb. Dear brother of Dorothy Ochser and Pearl Gumora as well as the late Irving Ostrow and 
 REESE-William Willis The Badminton Club of the City of New York expresses its sorrow at the death of William Reese, former President and supporter of the Badminton Club. We send our sincere sympathy to his widow, Sonia, his mother and his entire family. Frank Johnson, President Charles Craw
 RICHARDSON-Elliot L. The directors of College Savings Bank, with profound sorrow, mourn the passing of our former director. His commitment to making higher education more accessible led to the establishment of our institution and the Education Individual Retirement Account. His dedication, 
 SALKIN-Sol. Beloved husband of Rose, who were married over 60 years. Loving father of Cynthia, Harvey and Arnold. Devoted father-in-law and grandfather-in-law of Laura, Melanie, Marilyn and Cheryl. Cherished grandfather of Elliot, Jonathan, Randy, Michael, Justin, Kimberly and the late Jay.
 SALTZMAN-Renny B. Of New York and East Hampton, January 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Elizabeth and David. Devoted father-in-law of Elizabeth Doyle. Cherished grandfather of Jack and Teddy. Dear brother of Kenny. Renny died peacefully, surrounded by his family, after a
 STONE-Morton D. died on January 2, 2000 at the age of 91. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Dorothy Stone, and his loving family, John Stone and Barbara Schaefer, Alice Stone Nakhimovsky, Alexander Nakhimovsky, Isaac and Sharon Nakhimovsky, and his dear brother Brandon D. Stone. A 1929 gra
 WALTZMAN-Stuart Alan, M.D., 63. Devoted and adoring husband to Dava, father to Michael, Howard and Lynn, grandfather to Robert, brother to Susan and beloved friend. A graduate of Cornell University, Class of 1957, and Chicago Medical School, Class of 1961, he trained in Psychiatry at Hillsi
 WEINBERG-Jeshajahu (Shaike) The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum deeply mourns the death of its visionary Founding Director, Jeshajahu (Shaike) Weinberg, on January 1, 2000 in Tel Aviv, and extends its condolences to his family and friends. The Museum will announce a memorial program
 WEIS-Leo. A longtime Board Member deeply concerned with the efforts of our organizations. His exemplary devotion to the needs of the elderly and the indigent in our community will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Boards of Directors Gemiluth Chessed 
 ZUMWALT-Elmo R. Jr. Admiral (USN Retired). IDT Corporation mourns the loss of Elmo Russell Zumwalt, Jr., a dear friend and member of its board of directors. Not only a distinguised leader of our nation's military, Admiral Zumwalt was a guiding light for the IDT Corporation. He will be misse
 WEINBERG-Jessaja.The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth mourns the loss of the Founding Director & creative spirit of the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv. Shaike, as he was known to all of us, was a true renaissance man and the guiding spirit behind Beth Hatefutsoth. On behalf o
 Renny B. Saltzman, an interior designer and patron of modern architecture, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was complications associated with leukemia, said his wife, Ellin. In 1956 Mr. Sa
 Victor Valle, a boxing figure for more than six decades who trained world champions but was best remembered for developing Gerry Cooney into a ballyhooed heavyweight contender of the 1980's, died Dec. 24 at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx. He was 82. Valle, who lived in the Bronx, had 
 Henry H. Fowler, who as Treasury Secretary in the Johnson administration helped raise the money to meet the soaring costs of the Vietnam War and who proposed what turned out to be the last Federal budget surplus in a generation, died on Monday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
 BOGART-Irwin. Of Boynton Beach, Florida and White Plains, New York, on January 4, 2000. Father, brother, grandfather. Former owner of Camp Wicosuta. Survived by wife Joan, father of Linda, Michael, and Jennifer, and grandfather of five. He was loved and will be greatly missed by all.       
 BUTSON-Thomas. The Board of Directors and staff of Greenwich House mourn the passing of Thomas Butson, longtime friend and supporter who we remember for his kindness, community spirit, professional achievements and contributions to the city. Our condolences to Elizabeth, his family and frie
 BUTSON-Tom. The NYU community mourns with all its Greenwich Village neighbors the death of Tom Butson. Until recently the editor of the Villager, he was more than just a good newsman: he was a good man. His wise voice will be missed. L. Jay Oliva, President       
 COUNIHAN-Thomas R.., Dr. of Darien, CT, formerly of Islip, NY. On January 3, 2000 of a pulmonary embolism in Stamford, CT. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Anne, loving father of Mary Tangney of Darien, CT, sister Martha Counihan, OSU of New Rochelle, NY and Claire Counihan of New York C
 DOBSON-William A.. Retired Vice President of American Express Financial Planners finally threw in the towel after a 75-year battle with the aging process. He died at his home in Vero Beach, FL, after a long bout with cancer. Survived by Helen, his wife and love of 55 years, by son David of 
 EPSTEIN-Nathan B.. The Board of Directors and staff of FEGS are deeply saddened by the passing of Nat Epstein, esteemed treasurer, boardmember and friend. Nat brought to FEGS the wisdom and experience gained over decades of business management and civic leadership. Nat was a gentle, kind ma
 GERSHMAN-Michael. Beloved husband of Suzy and father of Evan and Aaron, died at home in Westport, CT on January 4, 2000. Gershman died in his sleep; he was 60 years old. A graduate of Brown University, Gershman held prominent positions in the world of music and then sports. At the time of h
 HIBBERD-Frederick Hyde. On January 2, 2000, age 94. Born on November 7, 1905 to Isaac and Alice Hyde Hibberd. Survived by his wife Lorna (nee Whittelsey), his children Frederick H. Jr., David W., and Elisabeth H. Charas. Also survived by 7 grandchildren. Calling hours on Wed. 2-4 & 7-9PM at
 LUFTIG-Robert. Died January 2, 2000. Son, brother, husband, father, grandfather. Memorial services January 6, 11am at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76 Street. He will be missed.       
 RACHLIN-Carl. The N.Y. Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of Carl Rachlin, former Board Member and Director Emeritus. Carl was an effective and strong advocate for civil liberties and for principles of equality, especially racial equality. We will miss him. Our condolences to his wife
 RAFFE-Hy. 83 years. Died January 3, at his home. Beloved husband of Joan, who were married over 50 years. Loving father of Beth, Bonnie, Patricia and the late Robert. Devoted father-in-law of Allan. Cherished grandfather of Robbie and Lauren. Caring brother of David and Leo. Also survived b
 REEDY-James H.. Died January 3, 2000 at the age of 92. He retired in 1972 as Senior Vice President and a Director of Allied Stores Corporation. He was married for 64 years to Marie M. Reedy until her death in 1997. He was the father of Barbara Fraser, Margaret Hayes, James H. Reedy, Jr., an
 RICHARDSON-Elliot L.. , 79 of Mitchellville, MD and Eastham, MA. formerly of Brookline, MA. Former U.S. Attorney General died on December 31, 1999 at MA General Hospital in Boston. Husband of the late Anne F. (Hazard) Richardson. Father of Henry S. Richardson of Washington DC, Michael E. Ri
 ROWLEY-Louis N. Jr. The Board of Trustees, President David Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello, the Faculty, Alumni, Staff and Students of Polytechnic University note with profound regret the passing of Louis N. Rowley, Jr., a 1931 graduate in mechanical engineering and 1976 Honorary Docto
 SALTZMAN-Renny B.. Of New York and East Hampton, January 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Elizabeth and David. Devoted father-in-law of Elizabeth Doyle. Cherished grandfather of Jack and Teddy. Dear brother of Kenny. Renny died peacefully, surrounded by his family, after 
 SHOR-Maury. Passed away on his 77th birthday. Cherished husband of Betty, devoted father of Enid Joyce, beloved cousin and friend. Interior design workshop to the trade for fifty years. Funeral services Wednesday, January 5, 12 noon, Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1652 Central Avenue, Yonkers, 
 ZUMWALT-Elmo R., Jr. Admiral (USN Retired). The Members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Elmo Zumwalt, Jr., and send condolences to his family.       
 VERNIER-PALLIEZ-Bernard. A memorial will be held at SaintLouis des Invalides PARIS 7 on Tuesday the 18th January 2000 at 11 A.M. Bernard Vernier-Palliez was chairman and chief Executive Officer of Automobiles RENAULT from 1975 to 1981 and served in Washington as French Ambassador to the Uni
 Robert James Burkhardt, a onetime power in the New Jersey Democratic Party who helped organize the Soviet-American summit meeting at Glassboro, N.J., but stumbled in a bribery scandal, died on Dec. 30 at Arden Hill Hospital in Goshen, N.Y. A former resident of Trenton and Central Valley, N.
 Thomas G. Butson, a former editor at The New York Times and other newspapers who went on to become part owner and editor of The Villager, a community newspaper in Greenwich Village, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 68 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Eliza
 James H. Ottaway Sr., the founder and former chief executive of Ottaway Newspapers Inc., a chain of newspapers based in Middletown, N.Y., that is now owned by Dow Jones & Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Goshen, N.Y. He was 88. In 1976, he stepped down as chief executive of
 Larry Bearnarth, the Mets' top relief pitcher in their lowly early years and later a pitching coach for the Montreal Expos and the Colorado Rockies in a baseball career spanning more than three decades, died Saturday at St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 58. He ha
 Lucas Hoving, a choreographer and modern dancer who performed with the Jose Limon Dance Company from 1949 to 1963, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 87. Mr. Hoving was a quietly imposing figure on the stage, a gifted actor and serenely humanistic performer who infu
 BUTSON-Thomas G.. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Thomas G. Butson, former editor at the New York Times, owner and editor of The Villager newspaper, and beloved husband of our dear friend, Elizabeth. To the entire Butson family and all w
 CHRZCZON-Louis. On January 5, 2000. Beloved husband of Ann. Loving father of Darlene Geurin, Thomas Chrzczon, Christine Chrzczon, Joanne Querol, Gregory Chrzczon and Jeffrey Chrzczon. Dear grandfather of Cory Geurin, Lauren, Emily and Julia Querol. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 FULLER-Robert Garfield. Of West Palm Beach, FL, aged 95, on December 31, 1999, following a brief illness. Devoted husband of the late Gwendolen Sherwood Ferrey, dear father of Robert Ferrey Fuller and the late Daphne Sherwood Fuller, beloved grandfather of Julie Fuller Thornton and Gordon M
 HEITNER-Emanuel. After 97 joyful years. Husband of the late Rose Smolin Heitner; and survived by his son and daughter-in-law, Michael and Susan Heitner of Brooklyn, N.Y., and by his grandson Samuel Kip Heitner and his wife Vanessa Guibert Heitner of Arlington, VA. Following a happy boyhood 
 HELLER-Mortimer. Formerly of Northport, NY. Died in Seattle, WA on January 4, 2000. He is survived by his wife Gayle in Seattle, WA; son David Heller, Sea Cliff, NY and daughters Lanie Liepow, Cherry Hill, NJ, Debra Heller, Millheim, PA, Sharen Leibowitz, West Windsor, NJ and Lauren Heller 
 MARCUS-Harold Theodor. Born in Berlin, Germany; died after a brief illness in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Betty; devoted father of Nancy and Teddy; Opa to Jennifer and Jesse. Friends are welcome at the family residence as there will be no service.       
 MATSIL-Irving. Died January 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Sherry. Devoted father of Amy Seltzer and Joelle Mehr. Adoring grandfather of Haylee, Matthew, Jonathan and Wesley. Loving brother to Roz, Milton, Reginald, Annette and Estelle. Services Thursday, January 6, 12PM at Nassau North Chapel
 NELSON-Robert W.., 75, died on January 4, 2000 at his residence in Old Saybrook, CT. Husband of Margaret C. Nelson. Father of Scott H., Blair M., and Christie L. Nelson. Grandfather of Ryan and Madison Nelson. Brother of G. Allen Nelson. Funeral services will be held on January 8, 2000 in S
 O'KEEFE-Robert. A memorial service will be held at 5PM Friday, January 7 at the Blarney Cove, 510 East 14 St., for Robert and Lee O'Keefe. Robert, 66, died on December 31 in his apartment in Stuyvesant Town. His wife Lee died June 13. Robert, a graduate of Georgetown University, worked for 
 OLDER-Jack S.. Beloved husband of Sondra. Loving father of Carolyn, Michael, Elizabeth and Michael, Stephen and Michele. Cherished grandfather of Daniel, Andrew, Jonathan and Robert. Devoted son of Lee and the late Morris. Dear brother of Marilyn. Partner at Kurzman & Eisenberg, formerly pa
 OTTAWAY-James Haller Sr.. The trustees and administration of Bard College mourn the passing James Ottaway, Sr., a distinguished and active member of the Hudson Valley community and father of Bard College trustee James H. Ottaway, Jr. His deep commitments to journalism and to civic duty are 
 REESE-William W.. New York City Ballet is saddened by the loss of our dear friend William Reese. He was a longtime member of our Board of Directors and our International Committee, and devoted his considerable talent and energy to the development of the Guild in its formative years, ensurin
 SALPUKAS-Agis., a playful, ebullient father and grandfather who will be forever missed. A philosopher and artist devoted to looking deeply and passionately at life. A journalist and historian who sought truth and clarity. He graduated from Bayside High School in Queens, NY, and worked his w
 SALTZMAN-Renny B.. Of New York and East Hampton, January 2, 2000. Beloved husband of Ellin. Loving father of Elizabeth and David. Devoted father-in-law of Elizabeth Doyle. Cherished grandfather of Jack and Teddy. Dear brother of Kenny. Renny died peacefully, surrounded by his family, after 
 SIMMELKJAER-Carl., 85, at his home on the Upper West Side on January 3, 2000. A man of great character, strength and knowledge, and the patriarch of his grateful family. Lifelong resident of Manhattan. Retired as manager after more than 40 years with the United States Postal Service. Devote
 VICUNA - Eduardo Sainz de. Eduardo Sainz de Vicuna passed away on December 9, 1999 in Madrid, after a long illness. Mr. Vicuna was born in Madrid in 1922. After schooling in Downside, England, he attended university in Oviedo, Spain, M.I.T. and Harvard, where he graduated in 1948 with an MB
 WIADRO-Albert. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Albert Wiadro, father-in-law of Nancy Wiadro, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National 
 Walter Galenson, a labor economist who studied the history of American and Scandinavian unions and made the first serious attempt by a Westerner to measure labor productivity in the former Soviet Union, has died in Washington. He was 85. Professor Galenson, who died on Dec. 30, expl
 Adam Yarmolinsky, a native New Yorker and liberal member of the Eastern establishment who helped reorganize the Pentagon and was the intellectual architect of many of the poverty programs under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 77 and died at Geo
 Irwin H. Kramer, a senior partner and managing director at Allen & Company, an investment bank in New York, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Terry Allen Kramer. Mr. Kramer, who also lived in Manhattan and 
 John Milner, an outfielder-first baseman who played on pennant-winning teams with the Mets in 1973 and the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1979, died on Tuesday at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta. He was 50. The Mets said that Milner, who lived in the Atlanta suburb of East Point, had canc
 BARRY-James A, age 65. Retired Executive Director and 30+ year employee of AT&T, Nynex and New England Telephone Companies, died January 5, 2000. He was an acknowledged expert in the Customer Services Area as well as a leader in the Information Services Arena. Born in Boston, Mass, October 
 BARSH-Jack. Age 87. In his sleep on January 6, 2000. Susan, his beloved wife of 36 years, and his family mourn his passing. ''Jake the Flying Tiger'' served in the Pacific during WWII and went on to hold several leadership positions in both the Greater Dental Society of New York and the ADA
 BRYSON-David Brady, 58, passed away peacefully Christmas morning with his family by his side. He is survived by his beloved wife Anita; son Paul, a freshman at Princeton; daughter Hallie, an attorney in San Francisco; and son Ethan, a medical student in New York City. They are eternally gra
 CADY-Sheldon Hutchins, 81. On January 5, 2000. Beloved husband for 54 years of Barbara (Urquhart) Cady, two daughters Sara Meyers and Barbara McDevitt and two grandchildren Joshua Lipton and Melanie Meyers. Graduated from Yale School of Architecture, 1947. Served as a Lieutenant in the U.S.
 CANTACUZENE-Prince Michel, Count SPERANSKY. Born October 12, 1913, in Ukraine, died peacefully in his home in Westerly, RI on December 31, 1999. Survived by his wife, Pamela, children and grandchildren.       
 CHRZCZON-Louis. On January 5, 2000. Beloved husband of Ann. Loving father of Darlene Geurin, Thomas Chrzczon, Christine Chrzczon, Joanne Querol, Gregory Chrzczon and Jeffrey Chrzczon. Dear grandfather of Cory Geurin, Lauren, Emily and Julia Querol. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 FREED-Lance. Of Scarsdale, N.Y., 54 years of age. Beloved husband of Liz. Devoted father of Lyndsay, Lauren and Zach. Adored son of Naomi Freed. Fond brother of David. Dearest son-inlaw of Joseph & Gail Kiell. Loving brother-in-law of Marci Kiell. Services Friday 1pm at Sharon Garden Cemete
 HEITNER-Emanuel. After 97 joyful years. Husband of the late Rose Smolin Heitner; and survived by his son and daughter-in-law, Michael and Susan Heitner of Brooklyn, N.Y., and by his grandson Samuel Kip Heitner and his wife Vanessa Guibert Heitner of Arlington, VA. Following a happy boyhood 
 HELLER-Mortimer. Formerly of Northport, NY. Died in Seattle, WA on January 4, 2000. He is survived by his wife Gayle in Seattle, WA; son David Heller, Sea Cliff, NY and daughters Lanie Liepow, Cherry Hill, NJ, Debra Heller, Millheim, PA, Sharen Leibowitz, West Windsor, NJ and Lauren Heller 
 HUNTER-Joel. Of Delray Beach, FL, died in his sleep at age 95 on January 5, 2000 after a long illness. He was president and chief executive officer of Crucible Steel Company from 1954 until his retirement in 1967. He then moved from Sewickley, PA to Delray Beach, FL, where he lived for the 
 KEBBE-Charles Maynard. Died January 4, 2000. Born 1913 in Hartford, CT. Attended Lafayette University and Yale Drama School. Served honorably in WWII. Was president of Charles Kebbe Associates until retirement. Mourned by his wife Sally Gracie Kebbe, his three children Nicola, Jonothan and 
 LAKE-Alvin A. Beloved husband of Carrie & the late Sylvia. Loving father of Sandy and his wife Edna, Barry & his wife Jill, & Stuart & his wife Gayle. Adored grandfather of Ricki, Jennifer, Joshua, Sarah, Matthew, Toby, Simon and Zoe. Cherished great-grandfather of Milo. Services Sunday, 9:
 LOUCHHEIM-William S. Sr. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of William S. Louchheim Sr., a member of the Los Angles Board of Overseers f
 MCMILLIN-George. 70, of NYC, died suddenly on Wednesday, January 5, 2000. George was a devoted neighbor, committed to the West 104th Street Block Association, a dear friend to many at the Interchurch Center where he worked for many years, and a great lover of classical music. His untimely d
 MURPHY-Leo J., Dr., of Cuba Lake, NY, died January 5, at his winter home in Ormond Beach, FL. Born March 30, 1910, in Olean, NY, he had practiced medicine for over 60 years, thirty years as a family physician, delivering over 1,000 babies, and thirty years as an ophthalmologist. He is survi
 ROTHMAN-Milton, 82. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Renee Sokoloff and Stephen Rothman. Father-in-law of Les and Marla. Dearest brother of Rita Barron and Gladys Marcus. Poppy was adored by his grandchildren Barrie, Jamie, Kerrie, Rori and Erin, Howard, David and Jose and his 
 RUSH-Stockton. Of San Francisco, a businessman, actor and entrepreneur. Died New Year's Day at the age of 69 after a brief illness. Mr. Rush was born November 15, 1930, in Philadelphia. He graduated from Princeton University in 1953 and served as a first lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps 
 SCHWARTZ-Estell. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our friend, Estell Schwartz, beloved wife of our esteemed colleague and benefactor, Albert M. Schwartz, M.D., who founded the Division of Vascular Surgery at Beth Israel and who served as 
 SPINDLER-Efroim. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Efroim Spindler. We extend profound condolences to his wife, Rose, to his children, Ziggy and Deena Sprindler and Rita and Michael Zelkowitz, to his grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted among t
 TARRY-Graham M. Of Mill Neck, NY, died on the first day of the new millennium. Beloved husband of Susan. Cherished father of Mark and Jordan. Devoted son of Basil and Winifred Tarry of Cubert, Cornwall, UK. President of Planned Business Development, Inc., of Mill Neck, NY, USA. and Planned 
 WINIG-Jerome D. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Jerome D. Winig, father-in-law of Mary Anne Winig, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, Nat
 WOLMAN-Benjamin B. 91, on January 3rd. Author/editor of 42 books in psychology. In private practice of psychotherapy for 50 years. Founder/editor of International Journal of Group Tensions. Editor & Chief of the Encyclopedia of Psychiatry, Psychology, Psychoanalysis & Neurology. He was Prof
 Patrick O'Brian, the Anglo-Irish novelist whose stirring tales of the British Navy in the Napoleonic Wars made him a literary celebrity at an age when most writers have long ceased to ply their trade, died in Dublin Sunday. He was 85. In recent months Mr. O'Brian had acknowledged th
 Yehuda Ebstein, a former executive of several Jewish nonprofit organizations, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said a daughter, Aviva Ebstein Kroninger of Manhattan. Mr. Ebstein was born in Oppeln, Germany, on Oct. 1, 1924, and emigr
 Don Martin, the Mad magazine cartoonist with a rubbery slapstick style whom the magazine billed as ''Mad's maddest artist,'' died on Thursday at Baptist Hospital in Miami. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said Christine Thompson, a hospital spokeswoman. Mr. Martin's hapless 
 Dr. Harald Hermann Rossi, a biophysicist who improved the ability to measure minute amounts of ionizing radiation and their effects on living things, died Jan. 1 at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 82. While he was active professionally until his death, he had been suffering fro
 BARSH-Jack. Age 87. In his sleep on January 6, 2000. Susan, his beloved wife of 36 years, and his family mourn his passing. ''Jake the Flying Tiger'' served in the Pacific during WWII and went on to hold several leadership positions in both the Greater Dental Society of New York and the ADA
 BERKE-Robert J. Born August 4, 1920 in Brooklyn; died January 6, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, Beverly; and by daughter Deborah (Peter McCann), son David (Julie) and four grandchildren, William, Julia, and Maggie Berke, and Tess McCann. Survived by nephew Seth and niece Ch
 BRENNER - Theodore (Ted). Sports Promoter. He is in the Boxing Hall of Fame. Beloved husband of Judith. Devoted father of Dr. Richard (Elizabeth) Brenner and Marsha (Michael) Gardner. Dear brother of Albert (Susan). Loving grandfather of Jennifer & Alberto Moel, Daniel & Alex Brenner, and L
 CANTACUZENE-Prince Michel, Count SPERANSKY. Born October 12, 1913, in Ukraine, died peacefully in his home in Westerly, RI on December 31, 1999. Survived by his wife, Pamela, children and grandchildren.       
 CURSON-Alfred. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 DERWIN-Jordan. On January 6, 2000 from cancer. Loving husband of Joan. Devoted father of Susan and Ellen (Jeff). Attorney, actor and longtime SAG officer. Service Sunday, 11:15, Plaza Memorial, 91st and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in his memory may be sent to Motion Picture Players Welfare Fun
 FELDMAN-Murray. On Jan. 6, 2000, Born Feb. 16, 1908, in New York City. Beloved husband of Annette (nee Bernstein) for 60 years. Devoted father of Paul, Carol and father-in-law of Karen. Cherished grandfather of Lynn, Mark and Heather, Jordan and Jonathan. Adoring great-grandfather of Sophie
 GOLDER-Stanley C. It is with profound sadness that the officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee note the passing of Stanley Golder, an enormously generous and gracious man who sought to leave the world a better place than he found it. Stan was a member of the AJC family 
 HELPHAND-Lewis. On January 7th, 2000. Beloved husband of Dorothy and the late Ruth. Loving father of Kenneth and David. Dear brother of Anna, Laura, the late Pearl and the late Esther. Adoring grandfather of Sam (Erica) and Ben. Step-father of Mark, Russell & Susan. Step-grandfather of Matt
 MALKIN-Shelley. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends its condolences to its esteemed friend and devoted communal leader Malcolm Thomson on the passing of his beloved sister, Shelley Malkin. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jer
 MARKS-Edward. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his bereaved family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Alan J. Hartstein, President       
 McCOLLUM-Gordon. On January 7. Beloved brother of Holly M. Schenck and companion of Andrea Anson, and adored uncle of Ted, Liz, Will and Chip Schenck. Died peacefully at New York Hospital following a 4 month battle with cancer. Gordon McCollum was a lover of New York City and an avid studen
 MICHAUD-Ralph Wm. Age 92. Died Sunday December 13, 1999 at home in Garden City, NY. Beloved husband of Marie Ann and father of Carole McLoughlin of Garden City, NY and Susan Jamieson of Fredericksburg, Va. A Wall Street Securities Analyst for over 50 years. A Vice President of Dean Witter a
 NECKMAN - Arnold Samuel. Passed away at his home in Hollywood, FL January 1, 2000 shortly after his 67th birthday. Husband to his great love of 50 years Shelley. Beloved father of Chuck, Steven and Beth. Loving grandfather of Andrew, David and Allison. He will surely be missed. Arnold was b
 REESE-William Willis II, died suddenly of a heart attack on December 29th at his home in West Palm Beach. A native of New York, he was 59. Beloved husband of Sonia van Voorhees Reese; son of the late Willis Livingston Mesier Reese and Frances Gallatin Stevens Reese; he is also survived by h
 SCHECTER-Edward. January, 6, 2000, age 61. Loving father of Deborah and Michael. Grandfather of Alexis, Brandon and Justin. Brother of Robert and the late Diane Rausch. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St., Sunday 1:30. Interment Beth Moses Cemetery. Contributions in hi
 STANLEY-Stanford A. Beloved husband of Estelle. Loving father of Marion and Elliott Kahn and Charles Stanley. Devoted grandfather to Stephen and Jeffrey, Brigitte and Michelle. Adoring greatgrandfather of Martine, Andrew and Sydney. He was a graduate of NYU and St. John's Law School. Servic
 STENERSON-Justin F., Sr. Died Thursday, January 6, 2000 at age 83. He was born December 4, 1916 to Harry and Pauline Stenerson of Bronx, New York. He was married to Anne Jennings on November 27, 1943. He was a graduate of Fordham Preparatory School and RCA Institute. Justin retired from CBS
 WASSERMAN-Robert A. All of us at Owens Group mourn the loss of our friend and partner. Bob was a unique insurance professional whose advice and counsel were deeply valued by our clients. His dedication throughout the past 33 years has been extraordinarily inspiring. Even when afflicted by i
 YARMOLINSKY-Adam. For 33 years, Adam Yarmolinsky was a deeply engaged and supportive trustee of the Vera Institute of Justice. His wide experience, interesting and analytic mind, and commitment to those often neglected by society, both here and abroad, strengthened our work immeasurably. A 
 Robert McG. Thomas Jr., a reporter for The New York Times who extended the possibilities of the conventional obituary form, shaking the dust from one of the most neglected areas of daily journalism, died on Thursday at his family's summer home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 60 and also had 
 Timothy Charles Venn Elliott, a Manhattan advertising executive, died Dec. 30 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 51. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his associates said. At his death Mr. Elliott, a native of England, was the managing director of the flagship office 
 Tom Fears, a Pro Football and College Football Hall of Fame receiver and later a National Football League coach, died Tuesday in a convalescent home in Palm Desert, Calif., near his home in Palm Springs. He was 77. His son Dan said his father died of complications from Alzheimer's d
 Andrew T. Stamboulidis, a retired textile executive who was active in the Greek-American community, died Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was heart failure, his family said. He retired in 1990 as director of administration and marke
 Dr. Karl Strauch, a high-energy physicist who helped provide insights into the fundamental structure of matter and energy, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Boston. He was 77 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had Parkinson's disease, but the immediate cause was pneumoni
 Bishop James Stuart Wetmore, the longest serving suffragan bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York and a staunch advocate of ecumenism, died Dec. 28 at the Lutheran Care Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. A resident of Millbrook, N.Y., he was 84. He suffered a lengthy illness, the dio
 James W. Walter, the former chairman of Walter Industries who built a billion-dollar housing business  and oversaw its subsequent bankruptcy in the face of complaints by people who said they had been injured by asbestos produced by a Walter subsidiary, died on Thursday at his home in Tampa,
 John Low Baldwin, who conducted the University Glee Club of New York City, an exuberant and exclusive throwback to the era when groups like the Whiffenpoofs -- meaning men and only men -- ruled the risers, died Dec. 31 of lung cancer at a Morristown, N.J., hospital. He was 76. Mr. B
 BERKE-Robert J. Born August 4, 1920 in Brooklyn; died January 6, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, Beverly; and by daughter Deborah (Peter McCann), son David (Julie) and four grandchildren, William, Julia, and Maggie Berke, and Tess McCann. Survived by nephew Seth and niece Ch
 BRENGLE-William C. Died December 30, 1999 in Concord, MA. Husband of Agnes C. Brengle. Also survived by four children, Katharine C. of New York, N.Y., Douglas C., M.D. of Terrace Park, OH., William C., Jr. of Camden, ME., Andrew C. of Ipswich, MA. and six grandchildren. A memorial service w
 BRENNER - Theodore (Ted). Sports Promoter. He is in the Boxing Hall of Fame. Beloved husband of Judith. Devoted father of Dr. Richard (Elizabeth) Brenner and Marsha (Michael) Gardner. Dear brother of Albert (Susan). Loving grandfather of Jennifer & Alberto Moel, Daniel & Alex Brenner, and L
 CANTACUZENE-Prince Michel, Count SPERANSKY. Born October 12, 1913, in Ukraine, died peacefully in his home in Westerly, RI on December 31, 1999. Survived by his wife, Pamela, children and grandchildren.       
 CURSON-Alfred I. age 77 years, after having waged a successful (sic) battle against cancer, died unexpectedly Friday at 12:30pm. His life was one of a Jewish American success story which included fighting in WWII and the 1948 Israel war of independence. He is survived by his wife Ruth and s
 FRIED-Melvin. We are most saddened by the death of Melvin Fried, a longtime member of the Executive Board of Workmen's Circle, Branch 1075. Every task he performed for our members was done with intelligence and grace. We shall miss his gentle presence. Milton Pincus, President Emanuel Raff,
 GRECO-Louis V. On January 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Marie (nee Principe). Devoted father of Luanne Mannix, Joseph V, Louis V, Thomas F, Gloria R, and the late Mary V. Also survived by ten grandchildren and one greatgrandson. Loving brother or Rosemary J. Billies. He was a Fourth Degree Kn
 HELPHAND-Lewis. On January 7th, 2000. Beloved husband of Dorothy and the late Ruth. Loving father of Kenneth and David. Dear brother of Anna, Laura, the late Pearl and the late Esther. Adoring grandfather of Sam (Erica) and Ben. Step-father of Mark, Russell & Susan. Step-grandfather of Matt
 KRASNE-Charles J. On January 6th after a long illness and a brave fight. Loving husband of Mickey (Marie-Rose) nee Kramer for 49 years. Devoted father of Robert A. and Andrew S. Krasne. Dear brother of Margo T. Krasne. Chuck Krasne was the youngest Naval Officer to serve in the Pacific in W
 MARKS-Edward L. 85 of Palm Beach, FL and Woodmere, NY on January 5. Loving father of Steven and Patty, grandfather of Spencer and the late Alison, brother of Marjorie, Robert and Melvin. He leaves behind and outstanding career of creative leadership in the menswear retail industry. He will 
 MURPHY-Edmond C. Age 79, of Baldwin, NY, died Friday, January 7. Beloved husband of the late Blanche Murphy and devoted father of three children and seven grandchildren. Dear brother of Patricia and Richard. Distinguished career as Chief Clerk of Family Court for City of New York. Highly re
 NECKMAN - Arnold Samuel. Passed away at his home in Hollywood, FL January 1, 2000 shortly after his 67th birthday. Husband to his great love of 50 years Shelley. Beloved father of Chuck, Steven and Beth. Loving grandfather of Andrew, David and Allison. He will surely be missed. Arnold was b
 REESE-William Willis II, died suddenly of a heart attack on December 29th at his home in West Palm Beach. A native of New York, he was 59. Beloved husband of Sonia van Voorhees Reese; son of the late Willis Livingston Mesier Reese and Frances Gallatin Stevens Reese; he is also survived by h
 THOMAS-Robert McGill Jr. Of New York, NY. Died on January 6, 2000, in Rehoboth Beach, DE. He is survived by his wife Joan Lynch Thomas; his sons David Folk Thomas of New York, NY, and Andrew Lynch Thomas of Lewes, DE; his daughter-in-law Christine Lewis Thomas; and his granddaughters Chelse
 WASSERMAN-Robert A. Of Chestnut Ridge, New York. Beloved husband of Adrienne. Cherished son of Adele. Devoted father of Lawrence and Debra Wasserman, Michael and Randi Kollender, Jeffrey and Rochelle Dashevsky. Dear brother of Ann and Ira Loeb, brother-in-law of Charlotte and Joseph Charney
 WEGMAN-Jacob. The New York Metropolitan Region, United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism, extends its condolences to our esteemed Past President, Allan M. Wegman on the passing of his beloved father. May his memory be for a blessing. Eugene D. Zinbarg, President Bruce F. Greenfield, Executi
 Teddy Brenner, the longtime Madison Square Garden matchmaker whose keen eye for appraising fighters was matched by his clever ability to deal with their managers, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 82 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, said his wi
 David B. Bryson, a lawyer and advocate of the housing rights of poor people, died on Dec. 25 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 58 and lived in Piedmont, Calif. The cause was lung cancer, The Associated Press said. Mr. Bryson ''was a central figure in the advocacy for 
 Hans Schwerte, an authority on literary history who admitted in 1995 that under another name he had been an SS officer, died on Dec. 18 in a retirement home in Marquartstein, Germany. He was 90. His death was announced by the Aachen Technical University. By the time that he acknowle
 Leon Radzinowicz, a scholar of criminology who played a major role in the development of the field, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. For most of his career, Mr. Radzinowicz, who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970, taught law at Cambridge University, w
 Malcolm L. Denise, a former labor relations executive with the Ford Motor Company, died Dec. 30 at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 86. Malcolm Lawrence Denise was born Oct. 29, 1913, in Decatur, Mich. He earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree from the University of Mich
 BERGMAN-Milton Sheridan. Of Delray Beach, FL, died in his home on January 8, 2000. He was 85 years old. Mr. Bergman is survived by his wife Barbara Bergman, and was the husband of the late Norma Horowitz Bergman. Mr. Bergman is also survived by his four children, Michael S. Bergman, William
 BERKE-Robert J. Born August 4, 1920 in Brooklyn; died January 6, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, Beverly; and by daughter Deborah (Peter McCann), son David (Julie) and four grandchildren, William, Julia, and Maggie Berke, and Tess McCann. Survived by nephew Seth and niece Ch
 BUTSON-Thomas G., 68. Formerly of the New York Times and, until recently, Editor of The Villager. Died on January 3, after a 10 year valiant fight with cancer. A consummate newsman, his last words were about a story he had covered. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth; his children Alexande
 CARPENTER-Ralph, T. Rev., CSP. On January 8, 2000, in San Francisco at age 88. Born in Olean, NY, he was ordained a Paulist priest on March 25, 1944. Father Carpenter spent 10 summers serving in trailer mission work throughout Tennessee. He served at Good Shepherd parish in NY and as procur
 FRIEDMAN-A. Bernard, 89, of Morristown, NJ, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died Friday, January 7, 2000, at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, NJ. Loving father of Bill Friedman and his wife Joyce of Morris Plains, NJ. Cherished brother of Sidelle Bogart of Miami Beach, FL. Also surviv
 HYMOWITZ - Stanley. Beloved husband of Zelda. Devoted father of Ronni and Jeff Roth and Jeffrey and Carri Hymowitz. Adored grandfather of Heather, Jacob and Ari. Dearest son of the late Hyman and Anna Hymowitz. Fond brother of the late Bernard. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at Weinstein Memor
 JANOWITZ-Ira. Of Potomac, MD, age 44. We are deeply saddened by the tragic, sudden death of our dearest friend, Ira, beloved husband of Donna and father to Adam and Lindsay. A boy of the Bronx with a special four years at the University of Rochester, he will always be remembered as the warm
 WARNER-Douglas T. January 8, 2000. Beloved husband of Ann. Mr. Warner was a prominent figure in Manhattan real estate. During his life he enjoyed horses and participated in many hunts throughout Long Island. Mr. Warner will be remembered as a true gentleman by all his friends who knew him. 
 WAXMAN-Mitchell W. Loving husband of Harriet (Sparber); father of sons Richard and Laurence (Randee); grandfather of Ian, Jamie, Ashley and Corey. Survived by brother Arnold (Evelyn) and sisters Elaine (Leo), Sue (Frank) and Penny (deceased), and many nephews and nieces. He loved his family
 YARMOLINSKY - Adam. The Board of Trustees, President, faculty, and staff of Bennington College mourn the death of our esteemed Trustee of 15 years and former Chairman of the Board, Adam Yarmolinsky. He was a trusted advisor whose wisdom and dedication to Bennington will not be forgotten. We
 The Rev. Carl Elkanah Bates, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention, the country's largest Protestant denomination, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Hendersonville, N.C. He was 85. Mr. Bates, who led the convention from 1970 to 1972, had previously been president of the
 Victor Serebriakoff, who helped Mensa, the organization for self-conscious but intensely convivial intelligentsia, grow from four eggheads around a London dinner table to a worldwide intellectual omelet of more than 100,000, died on New Year's Day at his home in Blackheath, a London suburb.
 Gen. Leonard F. Chapman Jr., the former commandant of the Marine Corps who guided the service through the height of the Vietnam War and the social and racial upheavals of that era, died of cancer on Thursday in Fairfax, Va. He was 86. After his retirement from the military in 1972, 
 George A. Athanson, the flamboyant mayor of Hartford who modeled himself after Fiorello La Guardia and served longer than any Hartford mayor since 1812, died of a heart attack at his Hartford home Sunday night, his wife said. He was 72. Mr. Athanson, a Democrat who was mayor for fiv
 Milton E. Krents, a broadcast executive who produced the religious drama and discussion series ''The Eternal Light'' on NBC radio and television for the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. 
 BERKE-Robert J. Born August 4, 1920 in Brooklyn; died January 6, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, Beverly; and by daughter Deborah (Peter McCann), son David (Julie) and four grandchildren, William, Julia, and Maggie Berke, and Tess McCann. Survived by nephew Seth and niece Ch
 FISHER-H. Ray passed away January 7, 2000 surrounded with love. He was born January 27, 1959 in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Ray was an enormously talented man with an innate sense of style. He shared that gift through his work for a distinguished roster of clients including Macy's, Bloomingdal
 FISHER-Morris. On January 9, 2000. Husband of the late Clara, beloved uncle to his many nieces and nephews. Devoted to many labor Zionist causes and Jewish theater. He will be deeply missed. Services at 12:45 at The Riverside Memorial Chapels, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GRAFF-Herb. We mourn the loss of our devoted fellow Player and dear friend. For nearly 20 years, he regaled us with wonderful stories and glorious anecdotes, and shared with us the love of his lifegreat movies. The delight of his company and the depth of his wit were never diminished by tim
 GROSS-Joseph Stanley, September 8, 1905-January 7, 2000. He was a devoted, admiring husband to Dolly Gross, deceased, and concerned father to daughter Stephanie Gross, deceased. He was for many years a caring and ethical broker and then financial advisor to the elderly whose trust he honore
 GURIAN-Bernard, DDS. Died January 9 at age eighty-six. Beloved husband of Anita. Devoted father of Ellen and Andrew and caring uncle of Martha. He was adored by all his friends and colleagues. Bernie will be remembered for his generosity, his keen interest in his profession, his artistic cr
 KRENTS-Milton. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Milton Krents, a beloved colleague whose career with AJC began in 1937 and spanned more than four decades. Milton served as Director of Radio and Television and, in 1969, established and directed AJC's William E
 KRIEGER-Lawrence Weston, of Chatham Twp. and Monmouth Beach, formerly of Summit on January 9, 2000. Beloved husband of 57 years of Sally McNally Krieger. Devoted father of Lawrence Weston Krieger, Jr. of Sudbury, MA; Philip Sheridan Krieger of New York City; Margery Krieger Slonaker of Summ
 LEDERMAN-Albert. Died on December 31, 1999 at home in New York City. Born August 8, 1919 in Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his wife, Marcia; two brothers, Irving & Seymour; a sister, Selma Engel; four sons, David, Matthew, Seth and Eli and their families.       
 LOPEZ-Joseph Patrick, age 51. Beloved husband & father died early Sunday morning after a lifetime of service to the Roman Catholic Church. He was a principal of St. Rose of Lima School in Washington Heights, where he worked for 28 years as a teacher, and a principal since 1984. Joseph is su
 LOSQUADRO-Enrico (Hank). Of Glen Cove, New York, on January 8, 2000. Survived by his beloved wife of 53 years, Geraldine (nee Larocca); & by his loving children, Geraldine, Thomas (Patricia), Mary Angela and Barbara (Dennis Galletta). Proud grandfather of Stephen, Allyson, Thomas & Katie. D
 MARKS-Edward. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and former longtime member, Edward Marks, who died on January 5, 2000. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family and friends. The Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 McDONOUGH-Paul. Of Roosevelt Island, passed away suddenly on January 7, 2000. Paul was born on September 20, 1930 in Stambaugh, Mich. He attended the University of Michigan and graduated from the University of Michigan Law School. He was honorably discharged from the U.S. Army in 1957. Paul
 REESE-William Willis II. Memorial service January 19, 4 PM, St. Bartholomew's, Park Avenue and 51st Street. REESE-William W. Third Street Music School Settlement is saddened by the loss of our longtime colleague and member of our Board of Directors. We are grateful to have had his w
 RODEN-J. Kenneth of Elizabeth, NJ. Devoted grandfather of April Stone of Tinton Falls, NJ & Jennifer Jones of Elizabeth, NJ. Press agent, educator, publicist and founder of the Junior Achievement of Union County died on January 6, 2000. A concelebrated funeral Mass was offered at the Immacu
 ROSE-O. Alan, M.D., age 90, died on January 10, 2000 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He leaves behind his beloved wife Frances of over 50 years and also his loving daughter Susan and two grandsons. He was a graduate of Yale University and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and one-time Pre
 ROSENBAUM-Harry, 96, of Englewood, NJ, died January 9, 2000. He was long associated with Loews' Theaters. Mr. Rosenbaum is survived by his loving wife Ruth and daughter Helen.       
 RUSSO-Albert Vincent. Born on February 10, 1916 in Brooklyn, N.Y. Died on January 8 in Scarsdale. Loving husband of Jean, father of Mary Jean, Karen and Thomas and ''Boppy'' of Jeannine, Jennifer and Aimee. Proudly served in the New York City Police Department for 35 years. He rose to the r
 SCHEINBERG-Louise G. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of the beloved wife of our colleague, Dr. Labe Scheinberg, who served as acting dean of our medical school and is now professor emeritus of neurology. To Labe and to his entire fam
 WARNER-Douglas T. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 2 Sutton Place South are deeply saddened at the loss of Douglas T. Warner. His service and dedication to this building as president for over 30 years will always be appreciated and remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his
 WARSHAW - Milton. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of Milton Warshaw, father of our Executive Director, Rabbi David Warshaw. We extend deepest condolences to his wife, Hermia, sons David and Abba (and Susan), and grandchidren Jonathan, Seth and Ra
 Robert McFadden, who gave raspy voice to the parrot cackling ''Ring around the collar!'' and ''Pretty shirt!'' in Wisk commercials in the 1970's as well as speaking for thousands of other advertising and cartoon characters, died last Friday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 76.      
 Henry Pleasants, a music critic, author and translator, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London. Mr. Pleasants was best known for his books about the voice, which he loved, and contemporary music, about which he had become disillusioned in the early 195
 Jerome Goldstein, who built a modest business selling a homemade wood restorer into a multimillion-dollar, publicly traded company called Scott's Liquid Gold, died on Wednesday in Denver. He was 77 and lived in Denver. The cause of death was large-cell lymphoma, said his son, Mark G
 Jervis Anderson, a staff writer for The New Yorker for 30 years and a leading chronicler of African-American life best known for his biographies of A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin, died sometime over the Christmas and New Year holidays at his home in New York City. He was 67. H
 Marcantonio Vilaca, an art dealer whose gallery in Sao Paolo was as instrumental in introducing European and North American artists to South America as it was in promoting young South American artists abroad, died on Jan. 1 at his parents' home in Recife, Brazil. He was 38. The caus
 Robert H. Craft, a prominent international investment banker in the 1950's and 60's, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Carefree, Ariz., near Phoenix. He was 93. In a 50-year career that began a month before the stock market crash of October 1929, Mr. Craft held executive and consulting
 ALMANSI-Renato J. Cherished father of Stephen and Susan. Devoted brother of Elena of Rome, Italy. Beloved grandfather and great grandfather. Services today 12:15 PM, at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. ALMANSI-Renato. The Officers and Faculty of the NYU Psychoa
 BALLIN-Harold, on December 23, 1999 at his home in Riverdale, NY. Mr. Ballin was President of Excel Paint Products Co., deceased by his wife, Zena, and his sister, Grace Herbst Rosenthal. Survived by his brother, Dr. Bert Ballin, and four nephews and two nieces. Memorial service Sunday, Jan
 BRADEN-George Dorsey, 85, died on January 3rd, 2000 in Brooklyn, NY. A legal scholar, he consulted for constitutional conventions in New York, Illinois, and Texas. A graduate of Swarthmore College and the Yale Law School, he clerked for Judge Charles Clark, taught at Yale, and served on the
 CASTOR-Harold. On January 5, 2000, Harold Castor passed away. The world has lost a great artist whose works appear everywhere from the National Cathedral to America's corporate headquarters and private collections. His unsurpassed talent was exceeded only by his profound humanity. He made t
 FELDMAN-Samuel. January 30, 1915-January 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Devoted father of Michael and Nancy, Bruce and Virginia and Richard and Jon. Proud grandfather of Mark, Jason and Matthew. Loving brother of Martha and Harry Walzer. Private funeral services were held at Parksid
 GROSS-Alfred E. On January 10, 2000 in Guilford, CT, age 84. Beloved husband to Margery Levy Gross for 55 years and father to Robert Gross and his wife Barbara Wacholder, and to Jean Gross and her husband Don Miller, and brother to Madeleine Zweibel. Formerly of New York City and Roslyn Hei
 KERNER-Samuel. Deceased December 24, 1999 in Paris, France, his home since his emigration from Poland in 1969. Born on May 12, 1907 in Lwow. Gifted teacher, journalist, historian. Author of unique dictionaries, YiddishFrench (with N. Gruss, 1981) and French-Yiddish (with B. Vaisbrot, 1988).
 KRENTS-Milton E. Died January 8, 2000. Funeral services today, 11:30AM, Frank E. Campbell, 82nd St and Madison Ave. KRENTS-Milton. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with profound sorrow the death of Milton Krents, a visionary who produced ''The Eternal Light,'' JTS's aw
 LICHTENSTEIN-Walter M. In San Francisco on January 7. Former Professor of Language in New York, Maine and California. Beloved son, nephew, cousin and friend. For further information, call 203-353-0115. He will be missed.       
 MASSER-Randy. January 6, 2000. Remembered by the Hemophilia Assoc. of NY where he served as a Trustee and Vice President for 11 years. His dedicated service to the bleeding disorders community will be truly missed. Edward G. Rogoff, President       
 ROJAS-Victor, age 56, of Fort Lauderdale, FL, died January 9, 2000. Active volunteer in South FL with AIDS-related organizations. Preceded in death by his parents, Sergio and Raquel (Archilla) Rojas, beloved brother of Alida Rojas, George Rojas and nephew of Haydee A. Rodenas all of NYC. Me
 ROSE-O. Alan., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the loss of O. Alan Rose, M.D., Emeritus Physician, an esteemed member of our hospital family. Dr. Rose joined our Cardiology staff in 1941 and was formerly Chief o
 SAPORTA-Herman. January 10, 2000. Most beloved father of Nuny Grey, Alan and Sallie Saporta, Marcia and Elliott Hanin. Adored Adda of Gary and Mary, Fredda and Andrew, Felice and Jeffrey, Hy, Adam & Ilene, & Fallon. Devoted & loving great-grandfather to David and Evan. Ever caring brother o
 SHASHA-Maurice Y. Formerly of Scarsdale, New York. Beloved husband of Violet and father of Vivienne Pero, Emil Shasha and Virginia Shasha; passed away Monday at his home in Boca Raton, Florida at age 85. He leaves behind three grandchildren, Janine, Brent and Blake; two sisters, Lucy and Ra
 SPERO-Mildred. The Board and staff of Stanley M. Isaacs Neighborhood Center extend our deepest sympathy to esteemed Board member, C. Michael Spero and his family. Doris C. Halaby, Chairman Barry J. Alperin, President Wanda Wooten, Exec. Director       
 Perry Monroe Shoemaker, who started as a summer laborer for the Pennsylvania Railroad for 7 cents an hour and rose to become the president of two large railroads and the chairman of a third, died on Dec. 25 in Tampa, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Shoemaker was 46 in 1952 when he became presid
 Bob Lemon, who pitched his way to the Hall of Fame with the Cleveland Indians, then managed the Yankees in their memorable pennant-winning comeback of 1978 when they overtook the Boston Red Sox in a division playoff, died Tuesday night at a nursing home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 79.     
 Edward R. Cony, a former managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1961 as a reporter for the paper, died on Sunday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 76. The cause was pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Richard J. Tofel, vice presiden
 BRENGLE-William C. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty an Staff of East Woods School mourn the passing of our former Headmaster William C. Brengle, who enthusiastically served the school from 1966 to 1973. His wisdom and dedication to East Woods will not be forgotten. We extend our d
 COMBE-Ivan D. 88, of Greenwich, CT and Dorset, VT. Died January 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Mary Elizabeth Combe, devoted father of Diana Bickford, Juliette Larson and Christopher Combe. He is also survived by six granddaughters and a grandson. His friends and associates are grateful for h
 DUCKLER-Bernard, 75. Of Coconut Creek, Fla., passed away on January 11th. Formerly of Woodbury, NY. Survived by his loving wife Mariel, two devoted children, two adored grandchildren and one cherished brother.       
 EDELSTEIN-Jonathan, M.D. The entire Phelps Memorial Hospital Center community mourns the passing of our beloved friend, colleague and mentor, Jonathan Edelstein, M.D. He was a superb surgeon whose professional dedication, skill and integrity were surpassed only by his humanity, sincerity an
 GROSS-Alfred E. On January 10, 2000 in Guilford, CT, age 84. Beloved husband to Margery Levy Gross for 55 years and father to Robert Gross and his wife Barbara Wacholder, and to Jean Gross and her husband Don Miller, and brother to Madeleine Zweibel. Formerly of New York City and Roslyn Hei
 INDYK-Simon. The Board of Directors and Merchant Members of the Church Avenue District Management Association, Inc., are deeply saddened by the death of Simon Indyk, a business owner and active participant in the life of Flatbush and all Brooklyn. ''Sy'' was instrumental in the formation an
 KLEIN-Peter Anders. Treasured by his parents, John and Helga, his grandparents, Irene and the late Stanley, and by his uncle, Mason and aunt Elizabeth, died in Rutland, Vermont, on January 7, 2000. One of a kind, adventurous, courageous, with a joyous sense of humor, you touched so many in 
 MARBY-David, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our esteemed colleague on January 8, 2000. As a Pediatric Emergency Medicine Attending Physician and Assistant Clinical Professor of Pediatrics, Dave established himself as a dedicated and committed Pediatrician who tirelessl
 McINERNY-Matthew R., 83, a retired construction engineer, died December 27, 1999 at home in Melbourne Beach, Florida. Mr. McInerny was born in South Bend, Indiana, and graduated with a B.S.C.E. degree from Notre Dame University in 1937. He worked for several construction companies during hi
 MILBURN-Devereux, Jr. On January 10, 2000. Husband of Elizabeth C. (nee Hinckley) Milburn. Residence Whalerock Point Road, Narragansett, R.I. A memorial service Saturday, Jan 15th, 12 noon, St. Peter's By The Sea Episcopal Church, Central St., Narragansett, R.I. In lieu of flowers donations
 POSNIAK-Sol. Passed away on January 11, 2000. Beloved husband to Evelyn, father to Fred, fatherin-law to Karen, grandfather to Marissa and Amanda. Survivor of the Holocaust. He will be greatly missed.       
 SAPORTA-Herman. The Board of Directors, voluteers and staff of the American Heart Association in New York City mourn the passing of Herman Saporta, a devoted friend. Through his generous support of our research program, we continue to make progress in the fight against heart disease and str
 SEGAL - Jack. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Jack Segal, on January 12, 2000. Services will be held January 14, 11:30 AM, at Menorah Chapels at Millburn, 2950 Vaux Hall Road, Union, NJ, 908-964-1500. We extend our hea
 STEIN-James, 93. Died Tuesday, January 11, 2000, at Calvary Hospice. Beloved husband of the late Helen Kaven Stein, who passed May 29, 1999. Cherished father of Elizabeth Graber and father-inlaw of Fredric Graber. Devoted grandfather to Anne and David Graber. Born in Eveleth, MN. Attended U
 THOMAS-George M. Died January 10, 2000. Age 84, of New York and Longboat Key, FL. Devoted husband of Bernice. Loving father of Joan Ellen Thomas and Philip Shale Thomas of New York and Dr. Edward Seth Thomas of Rhode Island. Adored grandfather of four and brother of Reuben Thomas of Englewo
 WERNER-Edwin R. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, its Directors, Officers and Employees extend heartfelt sympathy on the passing of our esteemed former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, colleague and friend, to his bereaved wife, Joan, and all members of his devoted family
 WETTLAUFER-C. Penn. January 11, 2000, died peacefully at home at the age of 64 after a short but courageous battle with cancer. A graduate of St. Mark's School, Southboro, MA., and Princeton University Class of 1958, he received an MBA from Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College 
 Bruno Zevi, editor of the Italian magazine L'Architettura and one of Europe's most prominent architecture critics for five decades, died on Sunday at his home in Rome. He was 81. Trained as an architect, Mr. Zevi was strongly influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright's concept of organic arc
 Henry Pleasants, a music critic and author who doubled as a top American spy in postwar Germany, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London. A former colleague at the Central Intelligence Agency said Mr. Pleasants had served as the intelligence agency's st
 Jack E. Brown, a lawyer prominent in several early cases concerning the computer industry and intellectual property, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Paradise Valley, Ariz. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said Paul F. Eckstein, an attorney at Brown & Bain, the Phoenix law firm
 Alfred Nzo, who helped lead some of the earliest battles against South Africa's apartheid regime and decades later became the country's first black foreign minister, died on Thursday in a clinic here. He was 74. A leading figure in the African National Congress for more than 30 year
 Devereux Milburn Jr., a sportsman and Wall Street lawyer who was a skilled performer both on polo fields and in courtrooms, died on Monday at his home in Narragansett, R.I. He was 82. He had cancer, his son Frank said. Mr. Milburn was a grandson of Charles Steele, a senior p
 Dr. Paul Benjamin Sigler, a molecular biologist at Yale and a pioneer in the study of the organic structure of organisms, collapsed and died on Tuesday on a walk from his home to his laboratory on the campus in New Haven. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, the university repor
 Herb Graff, who devoted most of his life to collecting, preserving and showing movies, especially early talkies of the 1930's, and a cinephile whose calling card read simply but accurately ''Film Resource,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was heart fai
 James P. O'Neil, the president and chief operating officer of Browne & Company, believed to be the country's second-oldest publicly traded company and one of the world's leading financial printers, died on Thursday in New York City. He was 55 and lived in Wayne, N.J. He died of card
 BARTHOLOMEW-Dana Treat. 93, of Old Lyme, CT. Died December 31, 1999. Born in Ansonia, CT in 1906, he graduated from Choate School and Yale University, class of 1928. After attending Harvard Business School, he worked for Tricontinental, then Alcan/Aluminium Ltd. He retired to Old Lyme, CT. 
 COMBE-Ivan D. 88, of Greenwich, CT and Dorset, VT. Died January 11, 2000. Beloved husband of Mary Elizabeth Combe, devoted father of Diana Bickford, Juliette Larson and Christopher Combe. He is also survived by six granddaughters and a grandson. His friends and associates are grateful for h
 HYMOWITZ - Stanley. Beloved husband of Zelda. Devoted father of Ronni and Jeff Roth, Jeffrey and Carri Hymowitz. Adored grandfather of Heather, Jacob and Ari. Dearest son of the late Hyman and Anna Hymowitz. Fond brother of the late Bernard. Services were held Tuesday at Weinstein Memorial 
 MILBURN-Devereux, Jr. On January 10, 2000. Husband of Elizabeth C. (nee Hinckley) Milburn. Residence Whalerock Point Road, Narragansett, R.I. A memorial service today, Jan 15th, 12 noon, St. Peter's By The Sea Episcopal Church, Central St., Narragansett, R.I. In lieu of flowers donations in
 O'NEIL-James P. On January 13, 2000. Beloved husband of JoAnne. Loving father of Kathleen, James J., and Pamela Fauerbach. Brother of Robert, Jack and Peggy. Visiting Sunday 7-9PM, Monday 24PM and 7-9PM. Vander May Colonial Funeral Home, 567 Ratzer Rd., Wayne, NJ. Funeral Mass will be held 
 RINGSTAD-Jack. 75. On January 13, 2000. Born May 26, 1925. Survived by wife, Connie Clarke; sons John Jr. and Geoffrey Ringstad. A celebration of his life will be held at the S&P Oyster House on the Mystic River, Connecticut on January 17 from 2-5 p.m.       
 ROSE-O. Alan. The Lenox Hill Hospital, Department of Medicine mourns the loss if its esteemed colleaque O. Alan Rose, MD, a member of the Department since 1941. Dr. Rose served as the Chief of the Cardiac Clinic for years, was a clinical investigator of cardiac drug therapy and an active me
 SCHWARTZ - Stanford. Died peacefully on January 13, 2000, at his home in Greenvale. Husband of Rachel (nee Canick). Father of David and Allyson Schwartz, of Philadelphia, Jessica Schwartz, of Tarrytown, and Michael and Pamela (Wilk) Schwartz, of Philadelphia. Proud grandfather of Daniel, Jo
 THOMSON-Lucien, age eighty-six of New York City, died Tuesday, January 11, 2000. Survived by his first cousins Isabel D. Thomson of Atlanta, GA and Albert D. Thomson of Cotton, GA. Harpist, composer, author and teacher of the harp in New York City since 1946. Long-time member and past Presi
 URBANEK-Brian John. 39, died January 8, 2000 at UNC Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill, NC after a lengthy illness. Brian was born on March 21, 1960 in Berwyn, IL. He received his BS degree in Business Administration from Augusta State University in Augusta, GA. He worked for several years as
 David Mellinkoff, a lawyer, professor and writer who waged fierce and clever battle against lawyerly language, ''contagious verbosity'' in his phrase, died in Los Angeles on Dec. 31. He was 85. Mr. Mellinkoff waged his war in books, articles and lectures, attacking what he called ''
 Edward T. Hanley Sr., who faced accusations of associating with organized crime in his 25 years of leading the nation's largest union of hotel and restaurant workers, died Jan. 7. He was 67 and lived in Wadsworth, Ill. He was killed in a traffic accident near his country home in Lan
 Marc Davis, one of the top cartoon animators who have worked on Walt Disney films, died Wednesday. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Davis, who was also a designer, worked for Disney from 1935 until his retirement in 1978. He was one of a core group of animators whom Walt Disn
 BERMAN-Lester T.. Died January 14, 2000. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Richard and Lee, and Donald and Robyn. Adored grandfather of Rachel, Lindsay, Russell, Matthew and Erica. Loving brother-in-law, uncle and friend. Decorated Air Force veteran of WWII and Korea. He was deeply 
 COHEN-Nathan. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father to Debra and Judith. Cherished grandfather of Christopher and Zachary. A retired labor arbitrator and attorney, he will be remembered for his wisdom, generosity and compassion. A memorial service is planned for March. COHEN-Na
 DuBOIS-John. John ''The Cajun Balladeer DuBois'', a singer who will be posthumously inducted into the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame, died January 8, 2000 from a stroke at his home in the French Quarter. He was 74. Mr. DuBois was born in Vermillion Parish and lived for many years on the East 
 GOLDFRANK-Frederick. 58, survived by his loving and beloved wife Victoria Ettlinger, son Nicholas Goldfrank, parents Tom and Emma Goldfrank, brother Edward, and many other loving and beloved friends, relatives and associates. Fred was a beautiful person with an incisive and creative mind. H
 GREENE-Wallace B.. Formerly of Newburgh, NY, died peacefully at age 88 on January 13 in Goshen, NY. After graduating from New York University in 1934, he founded the accounting firm of Robbins Greene and Sosnoff with offices in Newburgh and New York City (which firm subsequently merged into
 HAUSER-John T. (J. Engelberg). 88, died January 12, 2000, after a long illness. Very beloved husband and dearest friend of Lee, his wife of 56 years. Born in Austria. Came to the U.S. in 1938. Served four years in an intelligence unit of the U.S. Army during World War II. Conducted a printi
 HYMOWITZ - Stanley. Beloved husband of Zelda. Devoted father of Ronni and Jeff Roth, Jeffrey and Carri Hymowitz. Adored grandfather of Heather, Jacob and Ari. Dearest son of the late Hyman and Anna Hymowitz. Fond brother of the late Bernard. Services were held Tuesday at Weinstein Memorial 
 KARAMBELAS-James J.. died in Hollywood, FL on Dec. 26, 1999. He was born in Wilkes-Barre, PA, the son of the late John J. and Mary Dukas Karambelas. Jim graduated from Wyoming Seminary and Yale University, held graduate degrees from both Yale and Middlebury College, and completed a post gra
 KLEIN-Peter. Peter's sudden and untimely passing has saddened us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and deepest condolences to his beloved parents, Helga and John Klein. We are praying for you both in this time of sorrow and our thoughts are with you. Miriam and Ory Giberstein Gibertex T
 LEVINE-Joseph. Beloved husband of Gussie Levine. Devoted father to Alan Levine, Paul Levine and Susan Lukin. He was loved by all and will be greatly missed. For more information call Hellman Memorial Chapels, 914-356-8600.       
 LORBER-Arnold. The American Committee for Shenkar College and Shenkar College deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Arnold Lorber, honorary fellow of the College. Arnold and his wife Anita have be ardent supporters of the college enabling it to expand with the
 O'NEIL-James P.. On January 13, 2000. Beloved husband of JoAnne. Loving father of Kathleen, James J., and Pamela Fauerbach. Brother of Robert, Jack and Peggy. Visiting Sunday 7-9PM, Monday 24PM and 7-9PM. Vander May Colonial Funeral Home, 567 Ratzer Rd., Wayne, NJ. Funeral Mass will be held
 QUEEN-Harold. 83, of Lincolnville Beach, Maine, died Thursday, January 13, 2000 at Penobscot Bay Medical Center after a long illness. Born in New York City, January 22, 1916, he was the son of Samuel and Edith Binder Queen. He attended New York City Public Schools and the City College of Ne
 SCHOENBERG-Robert E.. 80, of Boca Raton, FL; formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Passed away at home on the evening of January 10th. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Evelyn Lapp Schoenberg; and three sons, Donald of South Toms River, NJ, Stephen of Boca Raton, FL, and Loren of Riverdale, NY. 
 SCHWARTZ - Stanford. Died peacefully on January 13, 2000, at his home in Greenvale. Husband of Rachel (nee Canick). Father of David and Allyson Schwartz, of Philadelphia, Jessica Schwartz, of Tarrytown, and Michael and Pamela (Wilk) Schwartz, of Philadelphia. Proud grandfather of Daniel, Jo
 WEAVER-Glenn., 82, of Wethersfield, died Wednesday, January 12 at Hartford Hospital. He is survived by his wife, Emojean (Shulenberger) Weaver and two sons, John and Peter. He was born in Altoona, PA and received the AB from Catawba College, Salisbury, NC; the BD degree from Lancaster (PA) 
 Pierre Clementi, the darkly handsome French character actor who made a specialty of seductive and menacing roles, died on Dec. 27 in Paris. He was 57. The cause was liver cancer, said Catherine Verret, the executive director of Unifrance USA, a French film association in Manhattan. 
 Stephen J. Jatras, former president and chief executive of the Telex Corporation and a member of the Oklahoma Regents for Higher Education, died at his home in Tulsa, Okla., on Jan. 8. He was 73. The cause of death was complications from a brain tumor, his daughter, Stephanie Buffum
 Bernhard Wicki, one of the best known film directors of postwar Germany, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Munich. He was 80. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his wife, Elisabeth Endriss, told Reuters. Though he began his career as an actor, Mr. Wicki rose to pr
 Estrongo Nachama, the chief cantor of the Berlin Jewish community and the man who did as much as anyone to revive Jewish life in the city after Hitler destroyed it, died on Thursday. He was 81. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Vigorous to the last, eye
 Ivan D. Combe, who was responsible for the fame of a medicine chest of brand-name products including Clearasil and Just for Men hair coloring, died on Tuesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Combe, who lived in Greenwich, was the chairman and chief executive of Combe Inc., a priv
 ADLER-Alton A. Of Bayonne, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Fritzi; devoted father of Kathy Segall, Nancy Rubin; father-in-law of Joel and Sheldon; dear brother of Bernice Luxemburg; loving grandfather of Leslie, Margo, Bonnie, Laurie, Barry; and great-grandfather of Andrew and David. He was
 BECKER-Sidney B. Died January 15, 2000, at age 89. Beloved husband of Dorothy G. Becker for 57 years. Devoted father of Daniel, William and David. Loving grandfather of Sarah, Samuel, Michael, Ruth, Benjamin, Rachel, Jordan, Anne, James and Leslie. He graduated from Columbia College with a 
 BIGELOW-John B. Of Woodstock, CT, died Friday, January 14 at the Day Kimball Hospital, Putnam, CT. He was 90 years old. From 1937 to 1974 he was the Headmaster of the Rectory School in Pomfret, CT, an independent elementary boarding school for boys and day school for girls and boys. After r
 KATCHER-Irving. On January 15, 2000, in Hollywood, FL. Former owner of Katos Sportswear in NYC. Beloved husband of Miriam; devoted father of David Katcher and Cirel Hillman; cherished grandfather of Marcy, Suzan and Michael Katcher and Michael, Sharon, and Judy Hillman; greatgrandfather of 
 O'NEIL-James P. On January 13, 2000. Beloved husband of JoAnne. Loving father of Kathleen, James J., and Pamela Fauerbach. Brother of Robert, Jack and Peggy. Visiting Sunday 7-9PM, Monday 24PM and 7-9PM. Vander May Colonial Funeral Home, 567 Ratzer Rd., Wayne, NJ. Funeral Mass will be held 
 SOSNOW-Morris. On January 15, 2000 at the age of 93, of Kings Point and Miami Beach. Loving husband of Kate. Devoted father of Bernice and the late Jerrold, Lorraine and Irving, Sheila and Richard. Beloved brother of Henja Joskowitz. Adored grandfather of Zabrina, Seth, Kristina, Daryl, Min
 THRALL-Donald Stuart. 82. Longtime resident of Plymouth, MI, and NYC, Guggenheim Fellow, art professor, painter of numerous modern works, including ''Alhambra,'' world traveler and author of ''Spanish Journal.'' A dear friend and gentle person died on January 15, 2000, in NY. Viewing at Wal
 KLEIN-Felix. 1/17/11-7/26/94. A founder, National Society for Graphology. Remembered and loved by the generations whose lives he changed. Janice       
 The Rev. James Francis Maguire, chancellor emeritus and the president of Loyola University Chicago during 15 years of robust growth, died on Jan. 10 at the Colombiere Jesuit Community in Clarkston, Mich. He was 95. Father Maguire's leadership was credited with bolstering the univers
 Gene Harris, a jazz pianist who plied a polished, mainstream and agreeably bright brand of blues, soul and bebop, died on Sunday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 66. The cause was complications from kidney failure a month before he was expecting a kidney transplant from one of hi
 ABBELL-Joseph J. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of longtime friend and supporter, Joseph J. Abbell. An exceptional man with a kind word for everyone, Joe loved his family, his Judaism and his community. Devotion to JTS was a family affair reflected by J
 ALLEN-Louis LaBoiteaux of Summit, NJ on January 13, 2000, husband of Annette Hadley Allen, father of Hadley Allen, Edith Margaret Allen and Marston Allen, brother of Samuel Marston Allen and Marcie A. Newman. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January 22, 2000 at 10:30 am at Calva
 BARBER-Apostle John W. Founder, prophet and presiding Prelate of the Born Again Church of Jesus Christ Apostolic Inc. On January 12. Left to await reunion at the Ressurection are his son, Elder Jerome Barber, his two sisters Nelda McNair and Mary Barber and two brothers, David Barber and El
 BECKER-Sidney.Our dear friend, mentor and role model. We will always cherish the respect, admiration and love we had for him. We will miss his wit and wisdom. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Dorothy and the family. Marjorie and Aaron Ziegelman BECKER-Sidney B. PEF Israel Endowmen
 BERTUCH-Mark S. Of Lighthouse Point, FL. and New York. Died January 16, 2000. He was the son of Henri L. and Rhoda S. Bertuch; brother of Michael (Maureen) and Cindy Rosenkrans (Chip); uncle of Ali, Sarah, Matthew and Rebecca; grandson of Fritzi Bertuch and Jane Weisman. Graveside service t
 BORST-Alan, formerly of Mamaroneck, NY died peacefully on January 11, in Hartford Connecticut. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1941, and Yale University in 1945, majoring in physics. After serving three years of naval service in the Pacific as a Lieutenant in the Amphibious Cor
 GINGOLD-George. 88 years old. Died on January 17, 2000. Beloved husband of Esther. Devoted father of Herbert, Wally and Dawn, Beverly Sanders and Julian and Irene. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. Also survived by his brother Sol. Services Wednesday 11:30 AM at ''Riverside-Nassa
 GLASER-Sidney. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses sincere condolences to our member Sandy Glaser and family on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 JOHNSTON-Robert Emmett, 83, died 1-15-00 in Florida after a long illness. Mr. Johnston, formerly of New York, was retired president and chief executive officer of Harbor Distributing Corp. in Hicksville. Harbor distributed Anheuser Busch beers. Previously, he was president of Port Distribut
 POSSONY-Regina. On January 16, 2000. Widow of Stephan T. Possony. Sister of Isabella Yanovsky, aunt of Alexis Levitin and his children Michael and Christine. Burial in Los Altos, California       
 REESE-William Willis. The New York Society of the Second War with Great Britain (1812) records its profound sorrow at the untimely passing of our dear friend, longtime member and Treasurer, and sends its deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Sonia, his mother, and the entire family. A Memor
 SORGI-Leonard K., of Scarsdale died on January 17, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Faye B. Sorgi. Loving father of Paul and his wife Joan, Kirk and his wife Patricia, and Christopher and his wife Angela. Dear brother-in-law of Nancy Teddy and uncle of Lisa Teddy. Cherished grandfather of 
 SOSNOW-Morris. All of us at Tilles Center for the Performing Arts at Long Island University are deeply saddened by the passing of Morris Sosnow, longtime friend and supporter. His wise counsel and philanthropic support were an important part of the development of Tilles Center. Our deepest 
 STONE-Irving. The Roshei Yeshiva, Presidium, and Board of Governors of Beth Medrash Govoha, Lakewood, New Jersey, mourn the passing of longtime friend and philanthropist, Mr. Irving Stone. His loss is a grievous blow to our entire community. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Mrs.
 STRAUSS-Michael H. Died on January 14, 2000 in Panama City, Fla. Dear brother of Beatrice, Alan, Jay and Ernie. Brother-inlaw of Sophie and Judy. Uncle of Eileen, Gordon, April, Lawrence and Ellen. His last days were spent in the loving care of Wendy Grimes. A Memorial Service will be held 
 WARREN-Carl V. 86, on January 17, 2000. Beloved husband of Vivien. Dear father of David and Phyllis, father-in-law of Noreen Gaffney Warren and James O'Connell, Jr. Loving grandfather of Anne and Eleanor O'Connell. Donations in his memory to the Southern Poverty Law Center, 400 Washington A
 WATERS-Joseph. To Our ''Grandpa Joe'', the expanse of your warmth, empathy and tenacity nurtured us from birth into adulthood. The sweetness of your smile and the power of your goodness provided a dazzling model for all that one would hope to be. We constantly felt valued and loved by you. 
 WICHNER-Howard. Of Riverdale, N.Y. On January 16, 2000. Loving husband of 22 years to Francine (nee Stahlberg). Beloved stepfather of David Noel Morales and Raquel Morales Brown. He will be remembered for the love, honesty and sense of humor he showed his family and friends. Funeral service
 BELIN-David. 1/17/99. Missed deeply by his loving family. Will always be with us in our hearts.       
 Dr. Robert R. Wilson, a physicist who built the world's most powerful particle smashers in a setting that he insisted be surrounded by restored prairies and enriched by striking architecture and objects of art, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 85. With a career that
 Derek Anson Jones, the director of ''Wit,'' which won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for drama, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 38. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Denis O'Hare. With a clean, precise vision of an emotionally complex play, Mr. J
 Irving I. Stone, who helped turn a small family business, started in 1906, into the world's second-largest maker of greeting cards, died Monday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 90 and lived in Beachwood, Ohio. Mr. Stone began at age 5 by stuffing postcards into envelopes
 John Morris Rankin, a master fiddler and pianist who helped spark a North American renaissance of Celtic music and culture, died on Sunday on his native Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia when his truck skidded off a twisting coastal highway and plunged into the icy sea. He was 40. M
 Dr. Nelson Shaulis, whose grape-growing experiments in the Finger Lakes region of New York State revolutionized vineyard practices worldwide, died on Saturday in Newark, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Geneva, N.Y. Before Dr. Shaulis retired in 1978 as professor of viticulture -- the sc
 ABBELL-Joseph J. The board of overseers of the Library of the Jewish Theological Seminary records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph J. Abbell. Beloved father of longtime board member, Louise A. Holland, he was a staunch supporter of J.T.S. and its library. May his entire family be co
 CROWLEY-George, engineer and inventor died in Pinehurst, NC on January 15, 2000. He was 80. He was born December 7, 1919 in Keansburg, NJ to George Reginald Crowley and Florence Jackson Crowley. He graduated from The University of Notre Dame in 1942 with a degree in electrical engineering a
 DANZIGER-Fred. M.D. The Faculty and Staff of NYU School of Medicine mourn the passing of Fred Danziger, M.D., Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology. Having joined the School's staff in 1975, he earned respect and admiration from his colleagues, students and patients for his clinica
 DORAN-A. Benedict, age 84, of Hanover, New Hampshire, formerly of Montclair, NJ, died at home Sunday, of cancer. Mr. Doran held an AB from Dartmouth College (1937) and an MBA from Harvard Business School (1939). He was Senior Vice President and a Director of Union Camp Corporation prior to 
 MICHAELS-Alan S. On Sunday, January 16, of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, and Pasadena, CA. Beloved husband of Janet (Glotzer) Michaels. Loving father of Stephen Louis Michaels of Cambridge, Mass., and James Nathaniel Michaels and his wife Colleen Steil Michaels of Bedminster, PA. Cherished 
 OWEN-James R. (Tripp) III. A longtime resident of Gulf Shores, AL., who most recently lived in New York, passed away Saturday, January 15, 2000. He was 23. Mr. Owen, an Eagle Scout, graduated from Foley High School and attended New York University where he graduated in 1999. He was a Financ
 STONE-Irving I. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary express profound sorrow on the passing of a foremost world leader of the Torah community and patriarch of the Stone-SapirsteinWeiss family. He was a longtime member of RIETS' Board of Trustees an
 WARREN-Carl V., 86, on January 17, 2000. Beloved husband of Vivien. Dear father of David and Phyllis, father-in-law of Noreen Gaffney Warren and James O'Connell, Jr. Loving grandfather of Anne and Eleanor O'Connell. Donations in his memory to the Southern Poverty Law Center, 400 Washington 
 ZIERER-Peter. The Shelter Rock Jewish Center of Roslyn, NY expresses its profound sorrow on the untimely and tragic death of our longtime member and sweet friend Peter, beloved husband of Toby, father of Ellen and Lauren and son of Frieda. May God comfort and strengthen his entire family. R
 Sam Jaffe, the pre-eminent agent of his day and a producer credited with saving Paramount Studios from financial ruin in the 1920's, died on Jan. 10 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 98 and lived in Beverly Hills. In addition to representing some of the biggest stars in Hollywood
 Bettino Craxi, the first Socialist to serve as prime minister in postwar Italy, who ended his career in disgrace and self-imposed exile as an emblem of political corruption, died of a heart attack in Tunisia on Wednesday, his family said. He was 65. In recent months, there had been 
 BECKER-Sidney. The Jewish Reconstructionist Federation mourns the passing of our friend and supporter, Sidney Becker. A lifelong Reconstructionist, he was committed to Israel and the Jewish people, to study and scholarship and to peace and social justice. We extend our condolences to his be
 BLOCH-Joel. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our good friend and colleague, Joel Bloch, who died in New York on January 8th of a massive heart attack at the age of 50, and was buried in Israel. As an artists' manager, he was an important member of the operatic community with an enc
 CARR-R.. Bruce, 75, of Charlotte, N.C., died January 17, 2000 at his home. Mr. Carr, a native of Wilkes-Barre, Penn., had been a faculty member of the history department at Columbia University and was later a captain with TWA. Services were held in Charlotte. For more information, contact H
 HIRSCH-Howard B.. Died January 19, 2000. Survived by his sister Helene Mesquita and her children Felicia and Joshua, many cousins and Thomas Schoff, with whom he shared a home for 30 years. HIRSCH-Howard. The School of American Ballet extends its very deepest condolences to the fami
 KAPLAN-Peter James. Age 56. Beloved husband of Sally. Loving father of Benjamin, Teddy and Emily. Devoted son of George and Helene Kaplan and the late Ethel Kaplan. Precious brother of Ellen Kaplan. Dear uncle of many nieces and nephews. Graveside service, Friday, January 21 at 12:30PM at T
 KAYNES-Robert. Of Tamarac, Florida. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Libby. Dearest father of Kenneth, Larry and Karen. Father-in-law of Carol, Shari and Jeffrey. Grandfather of seven. Services Jan. 20 at 1:30PM at Beth El Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Contributions in his memory may b
 MARTIN-Irving. 87, chemist and longterm employee of National Starch and Chemical Corporation, died January 14, 2000 in Laguna Hills, CA. He was the husband of the late Sylvia; loving father of Ann Pollack (Dick) and Julie Martin-Kolb (Jonathan); and grandfather of Joshua Pollack, Noah Polla
 MOLEY-Malcolm, M.D.. The entire Saint Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the physicians and staff in The Department of Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Malcolm Moley, M.D., an Attending Physician in the Dept of Surge
 OLSHIN-Arnold. The Managing Directors and staff of American Express TBS extend our deep sympathies to Ira and the family for the loss of Arnold Olshin, a man of extraordinary achievements for his family, profession and philanthropy.       
 ORENSTEIN-Jules, Judge. On January 18, 2000 at age 66. Loving husband of Harriet. Devoted father of sons, Glen and Jeffrey and daughter-in-law Mindy. Cherished grandfather of Mikaela and Justin. Adored brother of Michael and Ruth. Special uncle of Andy, David, Bryan, Kent and Douglas. Renow
 SCHICK-William, Dr.. Of Riverdale, Bronx, New York, January 13, 2000. Beloved husband of Jessica (nee Cotins) Schick for 51 years, devoted father of Gary & Sandor Schick and Teri SchickBilenker, cherished grandfather of Daniel and Carrie Bilenker. Dr. Schick was Professor Emeritus at Fairle
 SCHIFF-Adolph. Union Temple of Brooklyn records with profound sorrow the death of its oldest member and also member of longest standing. He was a distintuished member of the Board of Trustees and Treasurer of Brotherhood for many decades. Dr. Linda H. Goodman, Rabbi Dr. A. Stanley Dreyfus, 
 SOFSKY-Sam ''Choppy''. On January 18, 2000. Loving husband of May, adored brother, brother-inlaw, uncle, great-uncle and greatgreat uncle. Services Friday 11AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting hours Thursday 8-10PM. SOFSKY-Sam. The Officers, Governors and
 STONE-Irving. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of its esteemed Vice President, Chai founder and cherished friend, whose valued relationship with the school and its founders spanned over three decades. Mr. Stone's commitment to Jewish continuity was best expressed with his simple yet p
 THURSZ-Daniel, Dr.. On Tuesday, January 18, 2000. Dr. Daniel Thursz of North Bethesda, MD. Beloved husband of Hadassah N. Thursz; devoted father of Debby T. (Bruce) Bleiweis, New York; David A. Thursz, Baltimore, MD; Deena T. (Ben) Klopman, and Tammy T. (Steve) Truland all of North Potomac,
 CARLETON-Robert O.. A Memorial Mass will be held for Robert O. Carleton at Church of Our Saviour on Park Avenue and 38 Street at 2PM on 21 January. Robert, son of the late Chester R. and Emma C. Carleton, and brother of the late David H. and Theodore K., died on 27 October, 1999. His wife Z
 James Card, one of the world's leading film preservationists, a passionate devotee of silent movies and the founder and first curator of the Department of Film at the George Eastman House of Photography in Rochester, died on Sunday at a hospital in Syracuse. He was 84 and lived in East Roch
 Juggy Gayles, whose career in the music business stretched from the Lindy Hop to hip-hop, died in his sleep on Monday at the Parker Geriatric Nursing Home in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Gayles promoted hit songs as a song plugger bringing material to big bands and crooners, a
 Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins Jr., one of the leading evolutionary biologists and foremost botanists of the 20th century, died on Wednesday at his home in Davis, Calif. He was 94. Dr. Stebbins was one of the architects of the period during which knowledge from the study of fossils, geneti
 Makhmud Esambayev, a Chechen ballet dancer who achieved wide recognition in the Soviet Union for his virtuosic folk dancing, died in Moscow on Jan. 7. He was 75. The Itar-Tass press agency said he died after a long illness. Mr. Esambayev's artistry in theatricalized ethnic d
 AGATE-David. Died suddenly in Ft. Lauderdale, FL January 18. Survived by a loving family and many devoted friends. His warmth, generosity and humor will be treasured always. Funeral Services Monday, January 24th at 7:30 PM, St. John's in the Village, 224 Waverly Place.       
 BENNER-Robert V.A. 86, of South Yarmouth, January 19, 2000. Beloved husband of Jean D. Benner. Father of Barbara Benner Dean of Littleton, CO. Robert V.A. Benner Jr. of Concord, MA., and Mary Shaw Benner of Frederick, OK. Grandfather of Peter Shaw Benner and Nora Cameron Benner. A Funeral S
 BOYER-Kenneth R., 67, of Quogue, NY, died January 19, 2000, at University Hospital Stony Brook. Beloved companion, brother, uncle, and friend and mentor to many. He was much loved and will be sorely missed. Memorial service to be arranged for spring.       
 BRAFMAN-Morris. On January 20, 2000. Beloved and most devoted husband of Frances for over 60 years. Loving father of Dr. Irving and Mona, Annette and Dr. Seymour Jotkowitz, Milton and Sandy. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. Mr. Brafman escaped from Austria following Kristallnach
 COLLINS-Frederick A. 84. On January 19. Resident of Essex, Ct. Formerly of New Canaan, Ct. Graduate of Deerfield Academy, University of Michigan and Harvard Law School. Law Partner at Casey, Lane and Mittendorf, President and Chairman of the Sperry and Hutchinson Company. Orgingal Board mem
 CONWAY-Thomas, on January 18th, 2000, age 74, of Sarasota, FL, formerly of NY, native of Virginia, County Cavan, Ireland. Past President of P&B Association and longtime member of Cavan Gaelic Football Club. Beloved husband of Joan (nee Clifford). Devoted father of Thomas J. and his wife Jea
 JACOBS-Albert L. On January 20 in his 93rd year. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Loving father of Toni Olshen and Ruth Silverman (Barney). Cherished grandfather of Joshua, Sarah and Jessica. Loving uncle of many nieces and nephews. Pre-deceased by son Mark and grandson Jeremy. Service Fri
 KLASS-Sholom, Rabbi. At the age of 83. The Board of Governing Rabbis and the Ecclesiastical Rabbinical Court of the Rabbinical Alliance of America-Igud Horabbonim-deeply mourns the passing of the Publisher and Editor of The Jewish Press, the largest AngloJewish circulation newspaper in the 
 MANNY-F. Albert, died Friday, January 14, at the age of 82. A graduate of Grinnell College in Iowa, Albert worked for many years for Metropolitan Life Insurance and, until his death, was secretary for the Metropolitan Retirees Association. A student at the Alliance Francaise, as well as the
 PEISINGER-Robert B. Of Larchmont, NY and Delray Beach, FL. Died January 19, 2000 at age 92. Beloved husband of Dorothy Bruno Peisinger for 58 years. Proud father of Jon and Richard, and dear father-in-law to Carol and Hung-Yeh. Devoted grandfather of Lynsey, Gregory, Denma and Kuan-Yin. He 
 ROSE-David Keith, 48, of Kinderhook Lake, formerly of N.Y.C. & District of Columbia died Wednesday at his residence. Mr. Rose survived by his companion, Daniel Myers of Kinderhook, N.Y. Memorial Service Saturday January 29 at 11 AM from the Greenbush Reformed Church at Hayes Rd. Rt 9 & 20 i
 ROSENBERG-Alfred A. Passed away January 20 at age 84, after a spirited 12-year fight against illness. Loving and devoted husband and partner of Judy R. Rosenberg. Confidant, mentor and pal to numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and cousins. Brother of Lillian Sherman, Joseph
 SOFSKY-Sam ''Choppy''. On January 18, 2000. Loving husband of May, adored brother, brother-inlaw, uncle, great-uncle and greatgreat uncle. Services Friday 11AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. SOFSKY-Sam. The Members of the City Athletic Club mourn the passing
 STONE-Irving I. Torah UmesorahNational Society for Hebrew Day Schools, deeply mourns the loss of Irving Stone ob''m, a great pioneer and prominent philanthropic lay leader of the Hebrew Day School movement for over half a century. When the majority of American Jewry considered day schools p
 STYLES-Robert E., 75, of 7 Castlebridge Court, Hilton Head Isl., SC died Wednesday, January 19, 2000. In 1957 he established Modernfold/ Styles, Inc., now operated by his son Robert E. Styles, Jr. Survived by wife Joy, son Robert E. Styles, Jr., daughter and son-in-law Robert and Carrie Tob
 THURSZ-Daniel. Americans for Peace Now (APN) mourns the loss of its long time board member. Our condolences to the entire Thursz family. May his memory be a blessing. Pat Barr, Chair APN Board of Directors       
 TUBERT-George. The friends and family of George and Sabine are profoundly saddened to announce George's death at age 42 on January 20, 2000. Their love, dignity and humanity remained intact even during the worst of times. George would want all of us to live life to the maximum of our capaci
 WRIGHT-William R., on January 19, 2000, of Ridgewood, NJ. Mr. Wright was a Vice President with J.P. Morgan & Co. and President of Morprop Inc. He retired in 1988. Survived by two sons, William R., Jr. and David J., 2 granddaughters, Julie and Alexandra. Also survived by a sister, Dorothy Bu
 McCOY-Michael. Michael passed away suddenly on January 18th. A service will be held for Michael McCoy at the chapel of the Church Center for the United Nations at 777 UN Plaza, 44th St and 1st Ave (enter on 1st Ave) on Friday, January 21st at 6:15PM. There will be a viewing from 5-6pm. All 
 Clifford Truesdell, a mathematician and historian of mathematics who also was an authority on European art and culture, died on Jan. 14. in Baltimore. He was 80 and lived in Baltimore. Dr. Truesdell was best known for developing the mathematical underpinnings of continuum mechanics,
 Geoffrey E. Perry, a British grammar school teacher who used rudimentary equipment to uncover secret details of the Soviet space program during the cold war and later became a trusted consultant to United States government agencies, died on Tuesday near his home in Bude, Cornwall. He was 72
 George C. Crowley, an engineer and inventor whose work led to 80 patents, including one for the first thermostatically controlled electric blanket, died Jan. 15 in Pinehurst, N. C., after suffering from pneumonia. He was 80 years old. After his graduation in 1942 from the University
 AGATE-David. Died suddenly in Ft. Lauderdale, FL January 18. Survived by a loving family and many devoted friends. His warmth, generosity and humor will be treasured always. Funeral Services Monday, January 24th at 7:30 PM, St. John's in the Village, 224 Waverly Place, NYC.       
 AXENFIELD-Sidney. After a brief illness, Sidney Axenfield (formerly of New York City) passed peacefully in his 90th year at Hearthstone, Lee, Mass., on January 19, 2000. A veteran of World War II, Sidney returned to New York in 1946 and completed his degree at City College. In his professio
 COLLINS-Frederick A. 84. On January 19. Resident of Essex, Ct. Formerly of New Canaan, Ct. Graduate of Deerfield Academy, University of Michigan and Harvard Law School. Law Partner at Casey, Lane and Mittendorf, President and Chairman of the Sperry and Hutchinson Company. Orgingal Board mem
 CONWAY-Thomas, on January 18th, 2000, age 74, of Sarasota, FL, formerly of NY, native of Virginia, County Cavan, Ireland. Past President of Cavan P&B Association and longtime member of Cavan Gaelic Football Club. Past Treasurer of N.Y. Minor Board, delegate to United Irish Counties, member 
 HORNGRAD-Joseph. On January 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Julie. Loving father of Douglas. He will be forever remembered. Contributions in his memory to: Prostate Cancer Research Fund, Attention: Alice Levine, MD, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Mount Sinai Medical School,
 KENDALL-Irving B., Judge, 87 years of age, on January 20, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Loving father of Roberta Shields. Dear grandfather of Melissa Ernest and Lori Calcagni. Brother of Rose Slote. Service Sunday, 9am, Sinai Free Synagogue, 550 North Columbus Ave, Mount Vernon. C
 KLASS-Rabbi Sholom. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of the esteemed publisher of the Jewish Press, a great scholar and a visionary leader. May he and the Klass family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. Lauder,
 PURSLEY-David R. 61. On January 8th of a aortal aneurysm. A graduate of Harvard College with a Master of Arts in Theater from Baylor University. He had a 40 year career in the theater appearing on and off Broadway and in more than 150 regional theater productions. He was a member of Equity'
 ROSENBERG-Albert. We cherish the memory of our dear friend Al. His warmth, generosity and humor will be treasured always. To his beloved Judy, we extend our deepest sympathy. Rita and Philip Rosen and Family       
 ROSENBERG-Alfred A. Passed away January 20 at age 84, after a spirited 12-year fight against illness. Loving and devoted husband and partner of Judy R. Rosenberg. Confidant, mentor and pal to numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and cousins. Brother of Lillian Sherman, Joseph
 STONE-Irving I. The Officers, Board and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of Irving I. Stone, its distinguished friend, former Board member and father of our current devoted Board member Judy Stone Weiss. He was an extraordinary man in his vis
 STOWE-Dr. Nathan. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted longtime member, Dr. Nathan Stowe. Dr. Stowe met his beloved wife, Florence, at Rodeph Sholom and have been members for almost 65 years. We all miss Nat. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Florence and all their d
 Russell L. Wenkstern, who as the chief executive of Tonka Toys made them a household name, died on Tuesday in Spring Park, Minn. He was 87. Mr. Wenkstern lived in Mound, Minn., and had a winter home in Venice, Fla. Mr. Wenkstern was chief executive and president of Tonka Toy
 Alain Poire, a legendary figure in the French movie industry who produced more than 250 films during a 55-year career, died on Jan. 14 at his home in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine. He was 82. Mr. Poire, who spent most of his life working for Gaumont and was director of Gaumo
 Daniel Thursz, a former executive vice president of B'nai B'rith International, died on Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 71. The cause was a heart ailment, the organization said. At his death, Dr. Thursz was the Cardinal O'Boyle professor of social work at Catholi
 John Newland, an actor and director best remembered as the dignified host on the ''Alcoa Presents'' television series, an early venture into programming about the paranormal, died Jan. 10 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Newland directed and was the host of al
 AAROE-Paul M. Superior Court Judge, of Belvidere, NJ, died January 16, 2000. Predeceased by his first wife, Eileen Rourke Day Aaroe. Surviving are his wife, Flora Simmons Aaroe; a son, Paul M. Aaroe II; a sister, Olive Aaroe Lewis; 12 stepchildren, Jay D'Aprix, Barry D'Aprix, Lynne D' Aprix
 BERENSON-Robert K. Beloved husband of Marion; loving father of Donna and Steve; devoted father in-law of Deanna; dear brother of David; loving son of Birdie and the late Joseph. He will be sorely missed. Funeral services Monday, January 24, 1PM, Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, White Plains, NY
 BERSE-Aaron, G. Age 90. Died January 22 at the Greenwich, CT home of his sister and brother-inlaw, Sylvia and Sidney Weiss. Mr. Berse, a life long resident of New York City died of heart failure. In addition to his sister and brotherin-law, he leaves behind his nephews Charles J. Weiss of G
 BISSELL-Tallman. Died on Thursday, Dec. 30, 1999 of complications of pneumonia in New York City. He was 80. Mr. Bissell is survived by his three children: Galey Bissell Sergio-Castelvetere, John Tallman Bissell, & Katherine Maloney. He is also survived by a brother Louis Bissell, Jr. and a 
 BLOCK-Sidney. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, it's Men's Club and Sisterhood mourn the passing of their long-time, devoted member Sidney Block, beloved husband of Martha. We extend heartfelt sympathy to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Fred D
 CAPLAN-Joseph, M.D. Pediatrician. Formerly of Woodmere, LI and Fort Lauderdale, FL. Janaury 16, 2000. Survived by his wife Janice and daughter Jamie Jessica.       
 CATSIFF-Oscar. On January 18, at age 96, in New Port Richey, FL. Beloved husband of the late Molly Catsiff, loving father of Ruth and Dr. Frank Harold and Beth and Dr. Allen Unger, adoring grandfather of Stephanie Harold and Ben McLuckie, Allison Unger and Eric Prager, David Unger and Bradl
 COLLINS-Frederick A. 84. On January 19. Resident of Essex, Ct. Formerly of New Canaan, Ct. Graduate of Deerfield Academy, University of Michigan and Harvard Law School. Law Partner at Casey, Lane and Mittendorf, President and Chairman of the Sperry and Hutchinson Company. Orgingal Board mem
 EASTMOND - Maurice. Age eighty-four. On Jan. 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Christine. Loving father of Carolyn. Cherished father-in-law of Douglas. Devoted grandfather of Jennifer. Dear brother of Ferdinand. Graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University. For over thirty-five years ser
 FENTON-Alan D. Died of natural causes, January 1, 2000, in Cleveland at the age of 72. Alan Fenton was an abstract painter in the ''New York School'' tradition of artists, and long time NYC resident and real estate innovator. Fenton's quiet and contemplative nonobjective paintings and drawi
 HORNGRAD-Joseph. On January 20, 2000. Beloved husband of Julie. Loving father of Douglas. He will be forever remembered. Contributions in his memory to: Prostate Cancer Research Fund, Attention: Alice Levine, MD, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Mount Sinai Medical School,
 KAPLAN-Peter. Husband of Sally, father of Ben, Ted and Emmy, and a true joy and inspiration to all who had the priviledge to be counted among his friends. We will miss you, Peter, but your beautiful spirit remains with us. Susan, Bob, Matthew, and Victoria KAPLAN-Peter. The children
 KLASS-Rabbi Sholom. The Orthodox Union expresses its condolences to the family of a man of erudition, passion and relentless devotion to our people. His trailblazing publishing venture, ''The Jewish Press'', brought the message of Torah to Jewish homes worldwide. Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., 
 RONSON-Morton. 75, suddenly, of a heart attack on January 21 in Florida. Loving husband of Gertrude for 52 years. Father of Charles and Joseph of NYC and David of Phoenix. Devoted grandfather. Brother of Gussie Ringler. An optometrist in NYC. Veteran of World War II, he was a 2nd Lieutenant
 RUDERMAN-George. Died in Florida on January 17, 2000. Beloved and most devoted husband of Selma for over 52 years. Adored father of Dianne, fatherin-law of Michael. Cherished and proud grandfather of Tammy, Scott and Peter. Precious great grandfather of Cara Mia. He shall live forever in ou
 STONE-Irving. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs and especially the Jacob and Jenny Sapirstein High Schools in Ramot, Jerusalem, mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our most benevolent benefactor and truly beloved friend Irving Stone. Irving was a respected patriarch of a 
 ROSENBERG-Alfred A./;d Passed away January 20 at age 84, after a spirited 12-year fight against illness. Loving and devoted husband and partner of Judy R. Rosenberg. Confidant, mentor and pal to numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and cousins. Brother of Lillian Sherman, Jos
 Craig Claiborne, who emerged from the Mississippi Delta to become the nation's pre-eminent food journalist and whose writings coaxed millions of meat-and-potato Americans to the table of fine cuisine, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 79 and lived in East Hamp
 George Foerstner, an Iowa entrepreneur who founded Amana Appliances during the Depression and led it for 48 years while introducing the microwave oven and the side-by-side refrigerator to American homes, died Monday in Miami, near his winter home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 91 years old.   
 Jack Segal, a talent agent known for booking prodigious numbers of singers and comedians at hotels in the Catskills and the personal manager for a menagerie of eccentric and largely uncelebrated performers, died on Jan. 12 in Livingston, N.J. He was 98 and lived in West Orange, N.J.        
 Bob Squier, one of the originators of modern political imagery and a close friend and adviser of Vice President Al Gore, died today after a six-month battle with colon cancer. He was 65 and lived in Millwood, Va. Mr. Squier brought his background as a documentary filmmaker with a fa
 Gerald Patrick Murphy, a urologist whose research led to the P.S.A. test, widely used to help in the early detection of prostate cancer, died on Friday in Tel Aviv while attending a conference on cancer. He was 65 and lived in Seattle. The cause was a heart attack, reports from Isra
 Dr. Herbert S. Gutowsky, who pioneered the use of the technique of nuclear magnetic resonance for determining the structure of molecules, died on Jan. 13 at a hospital in Urbana, Ill. Dr. Gutowsky, who lived in Urbana since 1948, was 80. The technique gave chemists a new analytical 
 ASOFSKY-Richard M. On Saturday, January 22, 2000, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Leah V. Asofsky; devoted father of Rebecca and David (Emily) Asofsky; loving brother of Marjorie Zucker; loving son of Pauline and the late Isaac Asofsky; loving grandfather of Am
 BONAN-Seon Pierre. We mourn the loss of our friend and colleague who was our urban renewal expert and an exemplary business partner for close to 30 years. We share the pain of his loss with his wife Janet, his children Elizabeth, Charles and Virginia and his entire family. Eugene M. Grant &
 BRAFMAN-Morris. Likud USA mourns the passing of our past President. His pioneering efforts to free Soviet Jewry changed the course of world history. Joel E. Abramson, President Dr. Heskel M. Haddad, Chairman       
 CASTELLE-Robert S. Of Suffern, NY. Died on January 23. He is survived by his loving family, wife Cynthia, children Michael and Melanie, Andrew and Karin, Gary and Tari, and three grandchildren, Matthew, James and Cooper. Services Tuesday at 1:30PM at the Wanamaker and Carlough Funeral Home,
 CLAIBORNE-Craig. The Trustees, Faculty, Staff, and Students of the Culinary Institute of America mourn the death of Craig Claiborne, standard-bearer and consummate food writer. Mr. Claiborne's history with the CIA spans almost forty years, including dedicated service as a member of the corp
 CRIMMINS-Kevin Bates. of Darien, CT on January 21, 2000. Mr. Crimmins was former President and Chairman of the Board of Thomas Crimmins Contracting Co. Wife of Cynthia Crump Crimmins. Father of Pamela Crimmins, Lillian Knight and John Crimmins. Brother of Doris Crimmins. Son of Artemas Holm
 ELFMAN-Sidney. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted longtime member, Sidney Elfman. Sidney and his beloved wife, Doris, have been members of Rodeph Sholom for over thirty years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, his daughter, Lois, and all their dear ones. 
 ENGLAND-Marshall. We have lost a dear friend and ally in the struggle for affordable, quality health care to those who have long been denied such access. Marshall's steadfast advocacy on behalf of the disenfranchised was unparalleled. We will miss him. Our thoughts and love are with his col
 FISHER-Charles R. Rev. 79 of Wells, ME, formerly of Hackensack, NJ, died Sunday in ME. He ministered at Christ Church in Hackensack, NJ from 1955 to 1982, and started the Holley Child Care and Development Center. Husband to Georgie Maxine Tyler Fisher, father to Stephen Fisher and Elizabeth
 FRANK-Walter B. Age 90, died January 15, after a short illness. Loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He is survived by his wife Judy. Funeral services were held in Delray Beach, FL. He was founder and President of Albumina Supply Company. For information please call hi
 KATZ-Edith M. On January 23, 2000 at age 98. Dear mother of Fred and his wife, Marilyn. Devoted grandmother to Linda, Charles, Lawrence and wife, Janet. Proud great grandmother of Molly, Robert and Brian.       
 KRAMER-Aaron, M.D. The Brooklyn Alumni Club PLK-MSAS mourns the passing of their beloved frater and expresses their deep sympathy to his wife, Mildred, and the family.       
 KURIS-Arthur. Beloved father of Armand Jay, Leslie and Cindy. Adored grandfather of Emma, Miranda, Lily, Zak, Hayley, Charlie, Jeremy, Benji and Gabriel. Died January 22, 2000 in Hollywood, Fla. Born in Odessa, Russia in 1913. Mr Kuris was a proud alumnus of Townsend Harris and the City Col
 PICKHOLZ - Rabbi Morris (Moshe). Adored husband of Esther for fifty-three years. Beloved father of Sheli, Cheryl Mindy (Howard Rosen) and Gadi. Loving Zadie to Erica, Jeremy, Nalani, David, Danielle, Joshua, Tamar and Yair. Loving brother, brotherin-law and uncle. Esteemed Rabbi and mentor 
 ROKOFF-Sol. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of David and his wife June, and Gerald and his wife Carole. Cherished grandfather of Jessica, Robert, Lorin, Sam and Laura. Services today, 1PM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Tpk, Woodbury, L.I.       
 SAPERSTEIN-Nat. A kind and gentle man, who had a smile for all. He was always there to help in a most gracious manner. We shall all miss him. SAPERSTEIN-Nathan. Congregation Ahavath Torah of Englewood, NJ mourns the passing of our esteemed member. May the family be comforted among t
 SARGENT-David Rutledge. Financial publisher and civic leader, died on January 22 of complications from Parkinson's disease. He was 79 years old. Mr. Sargent, former president of United Business Service of Boston, was a resident of Wellesley, MA from 1947 until he retired to his family farm 
 SLAPIN-William I., of River Edge, NJ. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Jana, Deron and Barbara. Dear brother of Shirley (Dr. Jerold) Shagrin of Bloomfield Hills, MI. Born in Cincinnati, OH, attended the Conservatory of Music. Billy realized his boyhood dream of becoming a membe
 WERNER-Adrian B. Died Friday, January 21st. in Manhattan. We was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. August 10, 1944 and graduated from Brooklyn Tech and City College of New York. He developed numerous real estate projects throughout the United States and, most recently, worked in Coral Gables, Fla. He 
 Amyas Ames, an investment banker who devoted half his life to the support of the arts, becoming board chairman of both the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at  a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. He was 93. During his long busin
 AMES-Amyas, 93. Formerly of New York, died peacefully at home in Lexington, Massachusetts, on Monday, January 24, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife Lucia Millham Ames, two sons Oakes and Edward Ames of New York City, two daughters Olivia Hoblitzelle of Cambridge, MA., and Joan Ames o
 BARBASH-Irving B. Age 77, on January 24, 2000 of Oceanside, NY and Tamarac, Fl. Survived by his loving children Richard (Deborah) and Barbara (Michael) Kalish and five grandchildren. Contributions to Alzheimers Association would be appreciated. Services are today, 1:30PM at Mount Lebanon Ce
 BONAN-Seon Pierre. Real estate developer and philanthropist, best known for the ground-breaking urban renewal project, Charles River Park in Boston, died Saturday in Palm Beach, FL, of complications from a brain injury. He was 82 and maintained residences in Palm Beach, Wilton, CT, and New 
 CRIMMINS-Kevin Bates. of Darien, CT on January 21, 2000. Mr. Crimmins was former President and Chairman of the Board of Thomas Crimmins Contracting Co. Wife of Cynthia Crump Crimmins. Father of Pamela Crimmins, Lillian Knight and John Crimmins. Brother of Doris Crimmins. Son of Artemas Holm
 ENGLAND-Marshall. The North Star Fund deeply mourns the loss of a dear friend and an extraordinary organizer for justice in all arenas, especially accessible health care, the homeless, and a real future for youth. Marshall will be greatly missed. Our thoughts are with his family and friends
 GOLDSTEIN-Bertram, age 67, of Tucson, Arizona, formerly of Westchester, NY, passed away Thursday, January 20th, 2000 in Tucson. An active member of the Jewish Community Center in Tucson he is preceded in death by his wife Bonnie Jean Goldstein. Bertram is survived by his loving and devoted 
 HERMAN-Murray. January 24, 2000. Husband of Tillie. Devoted father of Reata and Robert Hirsch and the late Joan Leebow. Loving grandfather of Vicki and Gary Squires, Jill and Gary Ziman, Roberta and Steven, Denice & Kenneth & Dennis Leebow. Adoring great-grandfather of fourteen great - gran
 KRENDEL-Conrad, 90. On January 25, 2000. In Jerusalem, after a brief illness. Born in Staradoub, Russia. University of Manitoba, 1934, 2nd Lt. AUS, Pacific Theater, W.W. II, Civil Engineer Canada, U.S. and Israel. Survived by his wife Esther, sons Yossi, Noam, Ronen and four grandchildren. 
 McGARRY-Martin Joseph. Former newspaperman and retired public relations executive, died on January 20, in Hartford, CT, of complications resulting from pneumonia. Mr. McGarry was 82 years old. Mr. McGarry was born on November 12, 1917, in Philadelphia, PA, to Patrick and Isabel McGarry. He 
 MURPHY-Gerald P, M.D., ScD. The Officers, Board and Assembly members of the American Cancer Society, Inc, as well as its headquarters and extended family of staff around the country, extend their deepest condolences to the family of Dr. Gerald Murphy, our past president and former chief med
 PICKHOLZ-Morris, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served pulpits in Philadelphia and on Long Island and in 1987, became rabbi of B'nai Jacob in W. Palm Beach until his death. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Esther, children Sheli, Gadi, a
 RIATTI-Dr. Pierluigi. Died Monday, January 24 in Tahiti where he was vacationing. He was 74. He was an Attending Anesthesiologist at United Hospital in Port Chester NY where he served as Chairman of the Department from 1974-1986. Dr. Riatti was predeceased by his beloved wife Doris O'Donnel
 ROMANOFSKY-Frederick H. on January 22, 2000. Cherished husband of Helen. Devoted brother of Bunny. Loving father to his daughters Sandra and Grace, and his late son Peter. Beloved grandfather and great grandfather. We will miss you and never forget you. Memorial service Thursday, January 27
 SCHAFFNER-Fenton, MD. 79. On January 24, 2000 at his home in Washington, Conn. Loving husband of Rosanne Kerby Schaffner. Father of Roberta Schaffner of Dallas, Tex., Dr. John Schaffner of Rochester, Mn., Dr. Andrea Schaffner of Madison, Conn. and Marjorie Schaffner of Chicago, Il. Grandfat
 SCHARMANN-Morton B. On January 21, 2000, in Bernardsville, NJ at age 65. A lifelong resident of Bernsardsville and Hiram, Maine, an architect of high skill, a dear friend to many & a loyal alumnus of Dartmouth College. Services at The Church of St. John on the Mountain Episcopal Church in B
 SEELIG-Julius. Passed away on January 22, 2000. Loving husband of Alma. Devoted father of Evelyn Feiner, Kent and Susan Seelig. Cherished Opa of Rod and Laura Feiner, Jeffrey & Jennifer Feiner, Joshua Seelig and Lee Seelig. Great-grandfather of Abigail Feiner. Brother of Bertha Jacobsohn an
 VENOKUR-Harold. Died Jan. 1, 2000. Beloved husband of Natalie for almost fifty years. Devoted father of Babette and Johnny. Caring uncle. Wonderful brotherin-law of Tootsie and Barbara. He worked at the Journal American newspaper in the Circulation Department and was a successful restaurate
 WEINGARD-Steve. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Steve touched the lives of many children with his sense of humor and love of life. Campers and staff alike will keep in their hearts his cheerful morning reveille, ''Everybody up, up, up, up''. The Camp Way
 YELIN-Dr. Gabriel. Died Jan. 24 in San Francisco at 89. Formerly of South Orange, N.J., and Montreal. Devoted husband of the late Jeanette; beloved father of Louise and Edward; dear father-in-law of Robert Friedman and Abby Snay; adored grandfather of Jenny, Benjamin & William. Retired Chie
 DeROO-Hans. He lives in us as we remember him. With gratitude and enduring love. Rhoda, Bob, Julian and Nando       
 Carl T. Curtis, a former Republican House member and senator from Nebraska who spent 40 years in Congress preaching a strict fiscal and social conservatism and was a staunch defender of Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal, died on Monday in Lincoln, Neb. He was 94. Through
 Don Budge, the red-haired athlete who helped redefine the terms of his sport by becoming the first player to win the Grand Slam of tennis, in 1938, died yesterday in Scranton, Pa. He was 84. Budge was injured Dec. 14 in northeastern Pennsylvania when the car he was driving skidded o
 Leonard Weisgard, a children's book illustrator who won the Caldecott Medal in 1947 for ''The Little Island,'' written by his friend Margaret Wise Brown under the pseudonym Golden MacDonald, died on Jan. 14 at his home in Glumso, Denmark. He was 83. Mr. Weisgard was born in New Have
 AMES-Amyas., 93. Formerly of New York, died peacefully at home in Lexington, Massachusetts, on Monday, January 24, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife Lucia Millham Ames, two sons Oakes and Edward Ames of New York City, two daughters Olivia Hoblitzelle of Cambridge, MA., and Joan Ames 
 GORDON-Paul., 54. Died suddenly Jan. 25, 2000, in Forest Hills, NY. Paul is survived by his best friend & loving wife of 33 years, Randee, his devoted son and business partner, Jonathan, his daughter-inlaw, Elisabeth, his sister Annette Fox, sister-in-law and brother-inlaw, Sandra and Bert 
 GOTTLIEB-Jules Arthur. Of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL died peacefully at home January 26, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Ann (Lowenstein), devoted father of Lawrence Gottlieb (Peggy Watson), Lisa (Michael) Senter, Lynne (Steven) Blumenstock, John Gottlieb (Janet Tenore), ador
 GRAPSKI-Gregory Alan. Jan. 13, 2000. Beloved partner of Dave Ng. An attorney, Greg was very dedicated to his career and will always be cherished for his professionalism, courage, commitment, compassion and sense of humor. Memorial will be held Jan. 30, 2000 at Perazzo FH, 199 Bleecker St., 
 HULL-Leonard C.. 75, on January 24, 2000. Born at Santa Cruz, Calif. Served in the Coast Guard 1943-1946. Graduate of Hastings Law at The U. of Cal at Berkley. He is survived by bereaved wife Roberta Weinberger Hull of New York. Beloved father of Jules Dillon, dear brother to Al Hull, lovin
 KRUMHOLZ-George. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of George Krumholz of Miami. As Technion Guardians, he and his wife, Hannah, demonstrated the highest level of commitment to the Technion, the American Technion Society and Is
 LANE-William H.., 93, January 24 in Mesa, AZ. Longtime NYC educator and PS principal. Husband of the late Helen G. Survived by his companion Evelyn Goldsmith, sons Peter and James R., grandchildren Jenai and Kiera, Eric and Greg. Interment in Sun City, AZ.       
 NELSON-Richard H.., 60, died on Monday, January 24, 2000, at his home in the Palm Beach Polo and Country Club in Wellington, FL. Mr. Nelson was the President, CEO and Director of US Energy Systems, Inc. He received his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1961. The same year, he went to
 O'CONNELL-Thomas J.., 68, of 226 Lee Farm Drive, Southbury, Conn., died Tuesday, January 25, at Waterbury Hospital. He was the husband of Cynthia (Baxter) O'Connell. Mr. O'Connell was born June 7, 1931, in Bronx, N.Y., son of the late Thomas J. and Catherine (Scully) O'Connell. He was a vet
 PHILIPS - Morris. Of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. Died January 26, 2000. Married for more than 58 years, he and his wife Evelyn were the parents and parents-inlaw of Carol, Alice, Laura, Bill and Ellen and the grandparents of Rose, Ruby and Julia. Morrie was the brother and brother-in-law of Connie
 REICHGOTT-Gertrude. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Gertrude Reichgott, beloved mother of our friend and colleague, Michael Reichgott, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, for which Beth Israel proudly serves 
 SCHAFFNER-Fenton, MD.. 79. On January 24, 2000 at his home in Washington, Conn. Loving husband of Rosanne Kerby Schaffner. Father of Roberta Schaffner of Dallas, Tex., Dr. John Schaffner of Rochester, Mn., Dr. Andrea Schaffner of Madison, Conn. and Marjorie Schaffner of Chicago, Il. Grandfa
 SHUDOFSKY-Bella. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved mother of Dr. Noam Shudofsky, who together with his devoted wife, Nechama, Associate Chairwoman of AMIT's Board of Directors, dedicate their efforts in support of AMIT's needy children in Israel. Heartfelt condolences to
 DeROO-Hans. He lives in us as we remember him. With gratitude and enduring love. Rhoda, Bob, Julian and Nand       
 Perry T. Rathbone, an internationally known art authority and the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston from 1955 until 1972, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Rathbone, who joined Christie's, the auction house, after leaving the museum an
 Deane McGowen, a sportswriter for The New York Times for more than three decades, died Saturday at North Country Hospital in Newport, Vt. Mr. McGowen, who lived in Newport, was 83. The cause was complications of emphysema, his family said. Mr. McGowen covered a wide range of
 Ed Clark, the veteran Life photographer who soon after President Franklin D. Roosevelt's death caught a nation's grief in the tear-stained face of a Navy bandsman playing an accordion salute, died on Saturday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88. During his long career, Mr. Clark
 Emory Orgustus Cunningham, a publishing executive who served up recipes for sweet potato pie and a rosy view of a new suburban South emerging from the region's rural poverty and decades of racial strife, died of pneumonia on Monday in Birmingham, Ala., where he lived. He was 78. Mr.
 BACHMANN-Louis, Jr., 83, of Stamford, CT., and New York City died peacefully at home, January 26, 2000. Beloved father and father-in-law of Bonnie and Tom Strauss. Devoted grandfather of Tracey M. and Elizabeth B. Strauss and step-grandfather of Peter B. Strauss, fond cousin of Frederick M.
 BONAN-Seon Pierre. We note with sadness the death of our generous benefactor. His support of our Pediatric Diabetes Program has allowed us to develop programs for families with diabetes. We share his loss with his family. Pediatric Diabetes and Endocrinology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine   
 BUDGE-Don. The Officers and Trustees of the New York Sports Museum and Hall of Fame regret the passing of a charter member of the New York Sports Hall of Fame on January 26, 2000 in Scranton, PA. Bill Shannon, President Jordan Sprechman, Secretary BUDGE-Donald J. The Board of Direct
 DELLA CIOPPA-Guy, age 86, at home in Los Angeles on January 17th. Retired radio and television executive and producer. Survived by his wife Maria and daughter Margaret of New York City.       
 ENGLAND - Marshall. Marshall England was a soldier in the Civil Rights Movement who never forgot the struggle. He fought for more than 40 years for the rights of New Yorkers to decent health care and other services, and inspired others to take up the cause of social and economic justice. Hi
 GEISMAN-Richard Jess, Sr. Beloved husband of Phyllis, devoted father of Richard Jr. (Jennifer) Geisman and Morgan Leff. Cherished son of Blanche Karlan. Loving grandfather of Hannah. Services Friday, 9:30 AM, ''Frank E. Campbell'', Madison Ave & 81 St. GEISMAN-Richard. Temple Shaara
 GOTTLIEB-Jules Arthur. Of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL died peacefully at home January 26, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Ann (Lowenstein), devoted father of Lawrence Gottlieb (Peggy Watson), Lisa (Michael) Senter, Lynne (Steven) Blumenstock, Jon Gottlieb (Janet Tenore), adori
 SEEGER-Francis J., Rev. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former chaplain of Mount St. Mary's Cemetery, Flushing, on Jan. 25. Reposing in Quinn-Fogarty Funeral Home, 162-14 Sanford Ave., Flushing, on Friday, Jan. 28, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9:30 P.M. Funeral Mass Saturday, Jan
 SIMON-Harold, 78 years old, of Boynton Beach, Fla. A devoted husband, father, grandfather and brother, died Tuesday, January 25, from complications associated with cancer. He was a well-respected attorney, practicing in Manhattan for 50 years. He was a leader in many fraternal and charitabl
 WEINGARD-Steve. No one connected to Camp Wayne over the past 20 years will ever forget Steve. Campers, counselors and parents alike were all touched by his ever-present smile and optimism. He will be missed. Camp Wayners, Past and Present       
 PERLBINDER-Arnold. January 28, 1994. He is deeply missed and greatly loved. Perlbinder Famil       
 Edward J. Logue, an urban development czar who organized radical renewal programs to combat municipal decay in New Haven, Boston and New York State, died on Thursday at his home in West Tisbury, Mass. He was 78. In a career spanning three decades, Mr. Logue spent the 1950's renewing
 Francis Haskell, who wrote influential books on art patronage and the history of taste and who was a professor of art history at Oxford University from 1967 to 1995, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Oxford, England. He was 71. The cause was liver cancer, said a spokesman for The New Y
 Friedrich Gulda, an iconoclastic Austrian pianist and composer who was as renowned for his jazz performances as for the intellectual clarity of his Bach, Mozart and Beethoven interpretations, died on Thursday at his home in Weissenbach, Austria. He was 69. The Austria Press Agency r
 ADLOW-Sam, 86. Of Whitestone, N.Y. Passed away on January 27, 2000. He is lovingly remembered by his wife Kay, children Karen and Herb Unterlack and Rita and Steven Adlow, grandchildren Michelle and Evan Unterlack and Stacey and Andrew Unterlack and Cindy Adlow and great-grandchild Jessica 
 BACHMANN-Louis, Jr., 83, of Stamford, CT., and New York City died peacefully at home, January 26, 2000. Beloved father and father-in-law of Bonnie and Tom Strauss. Devoted grandfather of Tracey M. and Elizabeth B. Strauss and step-grandfather of Peter B. Strauss, fond cousin of Frederick M.
 BRICKMAN-Irving. On January 26, 2000. Beloved husband of Judy, loving father of Sandy and Mark, Ellen, and Nachy and Helene. Adored Zaide of Yaakov, Aliza, Yael, Shira, Shoshana, Elisheva and Chani. Devoted brother of Bernie and of Jean. He touched the lives of all he met. Shiva at 7524 Vle
 GUTWIRTH-Albert. Of Easton, CT. Died on January 27, 2000, his 79th Birthday. Loving father of Claudia, Valerie, & David. Loving grandfather of Jacob Collin Gutwirth & Ruby Rose Gizzi. Funeral service 12 Noon sunday, at Gallagher's Funeral Home, 31 Arch Street, Greenwich, CT.       
 MELTZER-Newton. 80, of Roslyn Heights, L.I., on January 22. Independent writer, director and producer of documentaries, features and short subjects for film and television. Survived by his wife, Barbara, daughter Erica, son Stephen, and three grandchildren.       
 MORRELLO - Charles J., 92, Knight of Malta, of Tudor City, passed away on January 27th. He was a Commissioner of the New York City Board of Assessors during the administrations of all mayors from Fiorello LaGuardia until John Lindsay, when he retired. He was a candidate for State Senator fo
 RAUCH-Neal. West Palm Beach, Fla. Neal Rauch, age 51, died suddenly on Wednesday, January 23, 2000 in West Palm Beach, Fla., where he had resided since 1977. He graduated from Cornell University and Syracuse University Law School. He practiced law in New York State, and was a developer and 
 REINHART-Robert, 93, a native of New York City. Died in Walker Valley, NY on December 17, 1999. A retired Variety columnist, magician, theatrical booking agent, and worker for the American Civil Liberties Union and the American Friends Service Committee, he was born December 13, 1906 to Rud
 SAAR-Illmurri. Age 91 years, died Jan. 27, 2000 in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, New York. He was born the son of Hilda Saar. He was last known to have resided in New York City. Would any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact Central New York D.S.O. collect at 315-336-2300 regarding
 SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The Greater New York Chapter of the American Liver Foundation is saddened by the death of Dr. Fenton Schaffner. We extend sincere condolences to his wife, Rosanne, his family and to the countless patients who have benefitted from his knowledge and warmth. Carl J. Dedd
 SCHUBART-Mark. With great sadness and a great sense of loss, the Board, staff, and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the sudden passing of Mark Schubart, Founding Director and Chairman Emeritus of Lincoln Center Institute for the Arts in Education, and former Bo
 McKINLEY-Selma Anderson. 1886-1982. Dearest Momma, You now have a great grandsonNicholas. May your spirit and courage inspire his life.       
 David R. Williams Jr., an industrialist and engineering innovator whose companies built and operated oil and gas pipelines in North and South America and the Middle East, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said his son David R. William
 Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the monumental 1984 dismemberment of American Telephone and Telegraph, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old. The cause was a cerebral h
 Jester Hairston, a veteran character actor and a conductor and arranger who was praised as one of the leading authorities on black choral music, died Jan. 18 in Los Angeles. He was 98. Mr. Hairston came to Hollywood in 1935 as the assistant conductor for the Hall Johnson choir, whic
 Lee Robert Bobker, a documentary filmmaker whose work won three Academy Award nominations and an Emmy nomination, died on Dec. 28 at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 74 and lived in Greenwich. Mr. Bobker did his best-known movie work in the 1960's, directing three films tha
 Marshall C. England, who left a job as a schoolteacher in the racially segregated South of the 1950's and eventually became an influential advocate for the poor and working class of New York City, died on Jan. 22 in Manhattan. He was 67. He died at Bellevue Hospital Center of compli
 BANNO-Lawrence G. Passed away January 14, 2000. He is survived by his beloved family, Angela, Kathryn, Ryan and Michael.       
 COPELAND - Vincent Michael. Passed away surrounded by his wife and family on Wednesday, January 26th, at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta from head injuries sustained in an automobile accident on January 19th. Vincent was born in Waco, TX on April 21st, 1959. Vincent was a sales pioneer i
 FENTON-Alan D. Died of natural causes, January 1, 2000, in Cleveland at the age of 72. Alan Fenton was an abstract painter in the ''New York School'' tradition of artists, and long time NYC resident and real estate innovator. Fenton's quiet and contemplative nonobjective paintings and drawi
 FORD-George G. August 23, 1926January 27, 2000. Of Swansboro, North Carolina. Born in Duchess County and a resident of Suffolk County for 59 years. Survived by his wife, Eileen, of fifty-one years; his children, George G. of AK, Henry T. of NY, Richard F. of TX, Regina E. of NY, and Marybet
 GINSBERG - Herman (Spotty). Age 92. Of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Passed away on January 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Elsie Ginsberg. Loving father of David Ginsberg and his wife, Martha. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Margo. He was a dedicated baseball coach and mentor to all of his pla
 GOTTLIEB-Jules. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Jules Gottlieb, a cherished friend and major supporter of our mission. Mr. Gottlieb left a legacy of hope for all those touched by his extraordinary generosity and concern, p
 GUTWIRTH-Albert. Of Easton, CT. Died on January 27, 2000, his 79th Birthday. Loving father of Claudia, Valerie, & David. Loving grandfather of Jacob Collin Gutwirth & Ruby Rose Gizzi. Funeral service 12 Noon sunday, at Gallagher's Funeral Home, 31 Arch Street, Greenwich, CT.       
 HALLWACHS - Robert Gordon. Died peacefully at home January 2. Beloved husband of Marianne, devoted father of Marianne Charny and Winnie, and grandfather of Matthew and Claire Charny. Taught English literature at Princeton University (1946-1955), Wells College (1955-1967), and Drexel Univers
 KAGLE-Arthur. Passed away Friday, January 28. Beloved father of Richard and Ruth, Ralph and Rose, Kenneth and Ronnie, Ana and Mordy. Grandfather of Melissa, Sunshine, Sara, Jessica, David, Rebecca and Abby. Great-grandfather of Diego and Mollie. Husband of the late Florence Kagle. Brother t
 KELLEY-John J. (Jack). On January 24, 2000. Loving brother of Leo E. Kelley, the late Raymond T. Kelley, James Kelley and Gertrude E. Donnelly. Beloved uncle of Rev. William Donnelly, O.S.A., Eileen Donnelly Wallach, Kathleen Ricciotti, Patricia Donnelly and the late Walter B. Donnelly, Jr.
 LYNN-Stanley. 80, of Fort Lee, NJ died peacefully on January 28, 2000. Stanley is survived by his beloved children Robert (Susan) and Kenneth (Alayne), cherished grandchildren Lawrence, Eric, Laurie, Jessica and Matthew, loving wife Fayette, loving companion Anna Sousa, and sister Helen Kan
 LYONS-Lloyd, age 58, originally from N.Y. Died January 21, 2000 in Hallandale, FL. Beloved husband of Gerri. Loving father of Debbie, Lori, Flossie and David. Cherished grandfather of seven. Dear brother of Steve and Ronnie. Son of the late Evelyn and Hy. Always in our hearts. Contributions
 PITASSY-Caesar L. Of Larchmont, on January 29, 2000. He was 85. He was born in New York on December 26, 1914, to Julius and Julia (nee DiSalle). Mr. Pitassy was married to Margaret (nee Cotter) in Mt. Vernon in 1942. Mr. Pitassy attended New York University and was a graduate from Fordham L
 SAAR-Illmurri. Age 91 years, died Jan. 27, 2000 in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, New York. He was born the son of Hilda Saar. He was last known to have resided in New York City. Would any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact Central New York D.S.O. collect at 315-336-2300 regarding
 SCHNEELOCH-Martin, 100, of Southport, CT died January 25, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife of 75 years, Marion Schneeloch; three daughters, Helen-Claire Martin of Gansevoort, NY; Nancy K. Nelson of Boulder, CO, Linda Jones of Greenwich, CT; 5 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
 SCHUBART-Mark. With great sadness and a great sense of loss, the Board, staff, and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the sudden passing of Mark Schubart, Founding Director and Chairman Emeritus of Lincoln Center Institute for the Arts in Education, and former Bo
 STROM-Ronald. Died in his sleep Jan. 25 in Rome, where he was buried in the Protestant Cemetery. A translator, interpretor, editor, teacher, writer & brilliant literary colleague. Longtime resident in Italy, Ron will be greatly missed by a large circle of friends on both sides of the Atlant
 TELTSCHER-Herry, O., Dr. A much beloved Viennese born psychotherapist, a distinguished clinical psychologist and world renowned handwriting expert, died on January 27 in New York. He lived fully until his unexpected passing at age 89, still vital, active and seeing clients. Dr. Teltscher wa
 WHITE-Harold T., Jr. A retired investment banker, avid skier and sailor, died January 29, 2000 in his home in New Canaan, CT. He was a resident of New Canaan since 1949 and a summer resident of West Falmouth, MA since 1955. After graduating from the Milton Academy (MA) in 1933 and then Harv
 SCHAFFER-Arnold Barton, Dr. Died on January 3, 2000, at the age of 71 at his residence in Flint, MI, of liver cancer. An accomplished oral surgeon and lecturer, an important contributor to his community-his greatest joy was his family       
 Dennis Severs, an American whose youthful passion for storytelling led him to London, where he turned a five-story 18th-century house into a musty, magical time machine for paying visitors, died of cancer on Dec. 27. He was 51. The house, which existed in space at 18 Folgate Street 
 George Dorsey Braden, a legal consultant on constitutional issues, died Jan. 3 at his home in Brooklyn. A former resident of Schenectady, N.Y., and Scarborough, Me., he was 85. A native of Indianapolis, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Swarthmore College in 1938 and graduated from Y
 Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the dismemberment in 1984 of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause of his death was a c
 John J. Gaherin, a negotiator who represented New York newspaper publishers and the owners of Major League Baseball in the 1960's and 70's and helped write baseball's first labor contracts and pension plan, died on Jan. 24 at Cape Cod Hospital Extended Care in Hyannis, Mass. He was 85 and l
 Josh Clayton-Felt, a rock singer, guitarist and songwriter, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. He was 32. The cause was cancer, said Robert Weide, a friend. Mr. Clayton-Felt, who grew up in Boston, took an early interest in music because of the influence of his stepfather, Henr
 Kevin B. Crimmins, former chairman and president of Thomas Crimmins Contracting, once a prominent builder in the New York metropolitan area, died Jan. 21 at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 64. The cause was leukemia, said a daughter, Pamela Crimmins of Manhattan. Mr. Crimmi
 GINSBERG - Herman (Spotty). Age 92. Of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Passed away on January 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Elsie Ginsberg. Loving father of David Ginsberg and his wife, Martha. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Margo. He was a dedicated baseball coach and mentor to all of his pla
 GURNITZ-Meyer. Died in Pomona, California. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Devoted father of Robert and his family.       
 KAPLAN-Matthew. January 28, 2000. A graduate of Fordham University and Fordham Law School. He served with the 20th Air Force at Guam during WWII and also served in the Korean War. He was a liquor salesman at Federal Wine and Liquor for thirty years. A former resident of Jersey City, he live
 LEVINE-Sidney. 81, of NYC and Palm Beach, FL. With utmost sadness and sorrow we note the peaceful passing of a special man, the patriarch of our very close family, on January 29, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife of 53 years, Joyce, his cherished children Diane and Fred Morgan of Dix
 MIRAGLIA-John F. Of Nanuet, NY. Died on January 30, 2000. Survived by his wife, Patricia, son Steven, daughter Lisa and son-inlaw Thomas Campbell, grandchildren John Patrick, Jennifer and Casey. Mass of Christian Burial Wednesday, 9:45 AM, St. Paul's Church, Congress, NY. Visiting Tuesday, 
 NEHMER-Stanley. Born December 8, 1920, in NYC. Son of Alexander and Laura Nehmer. BSS degree from CCNY; MA from Columbia University. OSS 1942-45; State Department 1945-57; World Bank 1957-61; Commerce Department 1965 until retirement in 1973; President ECS, Inc., 1973-88. He died on January
 SILBERMAN-Samuel J. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our devoted and distinguished member, Samuel J. Silberman, whose glorious contributions to the betterment of society brought blessings to innumerable human beings. With his family, we share t
 TISCHLER-Stanley, M.D. Of Brooklyn, NY, died January 30, 2000, at age 85. Beloved husband of the late Harriet Tischler. Beloved father and grandfather of Henry, Randi, Fran and Michael, Alicia Harris, Eric and Heather. He was former Chief of OB/GYN at Interfaith Medical Center and professor
