 Horace Hagedorn, who applied Madison Avenue wizardry to the new plant food his wife named Miracle-Gro and sold it to just about every one of the postwar suburbanites who yearned for a green thumb, died yesterday at his home in Sands Point, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was pulmonary fib
 Albert Schatz, a microbiologist who in the 1940's helped develop the powerful antibiotic streptomycin but later had to go to court to be recognized as a co-discoverer of the drug, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Vivi
 Dr. William H. Crosby Jr., a pioneering hematologist who invented one of the first devices to obtain biopsies of the bowel, died on Jan. 15 in Joplin, Mo., after a long illness. He was 90. His death was reported by his son Jonathan. From 1951 to 1965, Dr. Crosby was chief of
 Dr. Brandt F. Steele, a psychiatrist and an author whose studies of children and their abusers in the 1960's became a rallying point for national child welfare advocates, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Denver. He was 97. Dr. Steele, who taught at the University of Colorado for four 
 Dr. Edward D. Freis, an award-winning medical researcher whose early studies of high blood pressure in patients reversed the prevailing wisdom and helped definitively establish the health risks of hypertension, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Washington. He was 92. The cause was mu
 Eric Griffiths, a guitarist for the Quarrymen, the rock and skiffle band led by John Lennon that eventually evolved into the Beatles, died on Saturday at his home in Edinburgh. He was 64. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rod Davis, who played banjo in the original group.       
 Dr. Ernst Mayr, the leading evolutionary biologist of the 20th century, died on Thursday in Bedford, Mass. He was 100. Dr. Mayr's death, in a retirement community where he had lived since 1997, was announced by his family and Harvard, whose faculty he joined in 1953. He was 
 Max Schmeling, the persistent and meticulous German boxer whose legendarily brief 1938 heavyweight title bout against Joe Louis was so fraught with political and racial overtones that it was called ''the undercard of World War II,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Hollenstedt, Germany, nea
 Ossie Davis, the imposing, deep-voiced actor who with his wife and acting partner, Ruby Dee, helped widen horizons for blacks on stage and screen while fighting zealously for civil rights from Washington to Hollywood, died yesterday in Miami. He was 87. His son, Guy, said Mr. Davis 
 E. Allan Farnsworth, a legal scholar whose writings on contract disputes have become a standard reference in courtrooms and law schools, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patricia. A professor at Columbia 
 J. Richard Butler, a former executive director of Church World Service, an international relief and development agency, died on Jan. 25 at his home in New York City. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to the agency, which announced the death.       
 John L. Tatta, a pioneer in the cable television industry, who worked with Charles Dolan to build Cablevision into one of the nation's leading providers, died on Thursday on Long Island. He was 84. The cause was complications from cancer, Cablevision said. Mr. Tatta started 
 Paul Good, a television and print journalist known for his coverage of the civil rights movement, died on Jan. 23 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Regan. Mr. Good was best known for his reporting from the S
 Dr. Peter E. Stokes, a Cornell endocrinologist and psychiatrist and a pioneer in the use of lithium to treat manic depression, died on Jan. 22 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78. He had been hospitalized since November, and a cause of death was not deter
 Robert Stevens Baker, a nationally renowned church organist and choirmaster and the founding director of the Yale Institute of Sacred Music, died on Jan. 24 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 88. His death was announced by the institute, which he led at its beginnings in 1973 and d
 Karl Haas, the popular classical music commentator whose program ''Adventures in Good Music'' was once the most listened to classical music radio show in the world, died on Sunday at a hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 91. Bridgett Emerson, a syndication associate of WCLV-FM in Cl
 Derick J. Daniels, a former newspaper executive who helped steer Hugh Hefner's Playboy empire through rough patches in the 1970's, died last Saturday at his home in Miami. He was 76 and also had a home on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his family said.       
 George Herman, a CBS correspondent for 43 years and the moderator of the network's ''Face the Nation'' program for nearly 15 years, died yesterday in Washington. He was 85. His wife, Patricia, said he died after suffering in recent years from cancer, heart trouble and other ailments
 Lazar Berman, a Russian pianist with a huge, thunderous technique that made him a thrilling interpreter of Liszt and Rachmaninoff and a representative of the grand school of Russian Romantic pianism, died on Sunday at his home in Florence, Italy. He was 74. The cause was a heart att
 Steve Burgh, a record producer and session musician who played with Billy Joel, Phoebe Snow, Steve Forbert, David Bromberg and others, died on Monday at his home in Kingston, N.Y. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, said his lawyer, Leslie Berman. Mr. Burgh was a versat
 George A. Dudley, an architect who coordinated large civic projects at home and abroad, including the construction of several campuses for the State University of New York, died on Sunday at his home in Rensselaerville, N.Y. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, his family said.      
 Jimmy Smith, who made the Hammond organ one of the most popular sounds in jazz beginning in the mid-1950's, died on Tuesday at his home in Phoenix. He was 76. He died of unspecified natural causes, said his stepson and former manager, Michael Ward, who also said that his age of 76 w
 Stephen R. Gregg, who was awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II for charging a German outpost in France while he was an Army sergeant, enabling the rescue of seven American soldiers lying wounded on the battlefield, died on Friday at his home in Bayonne, N.J. He was 90. His dea
 Victor Castelli, a soloist with the New York City Ballet, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center; he was 52. His death was announced by Siobhan Burns, the company's associate director of communications, who said the cause was pneumonia. Mr. Castelli received a diag
 Edward R. Dudley, a retired New York judge and former borough president of Manhattan whose manifold career took him from civil rights advocacy to an ambassadorship in Africa, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 and lived in Harlem. The cause was prostate c
 John Patterson, a television director whose frequent work on crime shows included every season finale of ''The Sopranos'' on HBO, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was prostate cancer, HBO announced. Mr. Patterson was long drawn to cop programs,
 Arthur Miller, one of the great American playwrights, whose work exposed the flaws in the fabric of the American dream, died Thursday night at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Julia Bolus, his assistant. The author of ''Death
 Christopher Marquis, a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times, died yesterday in San Francisco. He was 43. He had been staying at the home of a brother, Matthew, who said the cause of death was AIDS. Christopher Marquis, whose specialty was Latin American po
 Karl Linn, a prominent landscape designer who created opulent spaces for some of the country's best-known architects but abandoned the work to spend the rest of his career building community gardens in devastated urban neighborhoods, died on Feb. 3 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81.
 Fritz Scholder, an American expressionist painter and sculptor whose ''Indian'' series of paintings in the 1960's and 70's reimagined the depiction of Native Americans, died on Thursday in Phoenix. He was 67 and lived in Scottsdale, Ariz. The cause was complications of diabetes, sai
 Howard Ernest Gruber, a scholar of cognitive psychology who was noted for his books on the development of Darwin's thinking on evolution, died on Jan. 25 in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived on the Upper West Side. He died in a nursing home of pneumonia after a long illness, said Doris
 Dr. Jeremy Swan, a cardiologist and medical innovator who developed a revolutionary catheter to measure blood flow and heart functions, died last Monday in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his family said. The catheter, known as the Swan-Ganz and created 
 Rear Adm. John Harllee, a decorated veteran of fighting in the Pacific in World War II and former chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission, died Feb. 5 in Bethesda, Md. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Admiral Harllee was a lieutenant stationed at Pear
 Mort Fega, a veteran disc jockey who was a familiar presence on the New York jazz scene of the 1960's, died on Jan. 21 in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 83 and lived in Delray Beach, Fla. The cause was complications of back surgery, his wife, Muriel, told The Associated Press. A
 Tyrone Davis, a Chicago singer who melded the ache of the blues with a more sophisticated, urban soul style in a string of hits in the 1960's and 70's, died on Wednesday in Hinsdale, Ill., near Chicago. He was 66 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill. The cause was pneumonia, said Leo Graham,
 Rafik Hariri, a billionaire contractor who plunged into the maelstrom of Lebanese politics to rebuild his war-ravaged country and twice served as prime minister, died on Monday in a huge car bomb explosion in Beirut. He was 60. Mr. Hariri, who had always surrounded himself with body
 Dick Weber, perhaps the greatest bowler ever and for more than a half-century an international ambassador for the sport, died Monday at his home in Florissant, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis. He was 75. Weber's wife, Juanita, said he had experienced breathing problems and could not be r
 Henry Wolf, the graphic designer and photographer who, as art director of Esquire, Harper's Bazaar and Show magazines in the 1950's and 60's, held sway over American periodical design, died on Monday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 80. He was found dead by his assistant, thoug
 Lawrence G. Rawl, who led an overhaul of Exxon's operations in the 1980's and shaped the company's response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Worth. He was 76. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Rawl spent
 Sixten Ehrling, a Swedish conductor of vigor and precision who conducted at the Metropolitan Opera, was the music director of the Detroit Symphony for a decade, and directed the conducting programs at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He wa
 Marcello Viotti, a prominent Swiss-born conductor with a flourishing European career, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich. He was 50. His brother, Silvio Viotti, announced his death. A spokesman for the Bavarian Radio said Mr. Viotti had a stroke last week after a rehearsal for a
 Otto Plaschkes, a British producer of films including the spy thriller ''Hopscotch'' (1980) and the dark comedy ''Georgy Girl'' (1966), died on Monday in London. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, said Rob Gerlach, a friend. Mr. Plaschkes gravitated to wry screenplays t
 Owen Allred, head of the Apostolic United Brethren, one of Utah's largest polygamous denominations, died on Monday at his home in Bluffdale, a suburb of Salt Lake City. He was 91. His death was announced by his son Carl. Mr. Allred's group, thought to have about 6,000 member
 WHEN the nomination of Bernard B. Kerik for homeland security secretary unraveled in December, Joseph Tacopina became an extremely busy lawyer. He logged 316 calls on his cellphone on Dec. 11 and 12 after his client abruptly withdrew his nomination, saying he had not paid taxes for a nanny 
 Martin J. Hillenbrand, a former State Department expert on European affairs who was ambassador to Hungary and Germany, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 89. His death was announced by the University of Georgia, where he was Dean Rusk emeritus professor of internationa
 Dr. Paul E. Lacy, a pathologist who was known as the father of islet cell transplants, an experimental treatment for Type 1 diabetes, died Tuesday in Zanesville, Ohio. He was 81. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic lung disease, said his son Paul E. Lacy Jr. Dr. Lacy
 Samuel W. Alderson, a physicist and engineer who was a pioneer in developing the long-suffering, curiously beautiful human surrogates known as automotive crash-test dummies, died Feb. 11 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 90. The cause was complications of myelofibrosis and pneumoni
 Sidney Waxman, a horticulturist who hunted tirelessly for the odd growths on pine trees called witches' brooms whose cones could be propagated into dwarf evergreens for the front lawns of suburbia, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Storrs, Conn. He was 81. The cause was transitional ce
 Stuart Preston, a former art reporter and critic for The New York Times, died on Feb. 9 in Paris, where he had lived for the last 30 years. He was 89. His death, at the American Hospital, was announced by James Fox, a cousin and his executor. Mr. Preston joined the staff of 
 Warren Vaché Sr., a bassist, author and historian who was long a mainstay of jazz in New Jersey, died on Feb. 4 in Rahway, N.J. He was 90. The cause was complications of pneumonia and prostate cancer, said his son, the jazz cornetist Warren Vaché Jr. Mr. Vaché, the father
 Daniel Goodwin, a director of the Smithsonian Institution Press in the 1990's, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 57. The cause was cancer, his wife, Andrea Meditch, said. Mr. Goodwin, who joined the press in the mid-1980's as an acquisitions editor for an
 Hunter S. Thompson, the maverick journalist and author whose savage chronicling of the underbelly of American life and politics embodied a new kind of nonfiction writing he called ''gonzo journalism,'' died yesterday in Colorado. Tricia Louthis, of the Pitkin County Sheriff's Office, said M
 John Raitt, the lyric baritone who created Broadway history as Billy Bigelow in the original production of ''Carousel'' in 1945 and Sid Sorokin in ''The Pajama Game '' a decade later, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his 
 Hunter S. Thompson, the anger-driven, drug-fueled writer for Rolling Stone magazine whose obscenity-laced prose broke down the wall between reader and writer, writer and subject, shot and killed himself on Sunday at his home in Woody Creek, Colo. He was 67. His death was reported by
 Robert R. Merhige Jr., a retired federal district judge whose decision ordering school desegregation in Virginia in the early 1970's meant he lived for a time under round-the-clock guard, died last Friday in Richmond. He was 86. His death was announced by the international law firm 
 S. Stanley Kreutzer, a tenacious reform-minded lawyer who served as counsel to New York City and State legislative bodies and drafted a code of ethics for the city that became a model for municipalities across the nation, died on Saturday at Sterling Glen, an assisted living home in Great N
 Guillermo Cabrera Infante, a Cuban novelist in exile whose lavishly textured prose conjured the country he knew before the revolution he once supported, died on Monday at a hospital in London, where he had lived for 39 years. He was 75. The cause was septicemia, a blood infection, h
 Reggie Roby, who was one of the finest and most durable punters in National Football League history, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 43. Nancy Knox, a business associate, said Roby collapsed after a morning shower and was pronounced dead at St. Thomas Hospital. She said a doctor
 Ara Berberian, a warm-voiced bass who sang for 20 years at the Metropolitan Opera, died early Monday in his sleep at his winter home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ginny. Mr. Berberian's operatic repertory included more than 100
 David Bradford, an influential tax economist who devised an innovative way to change the income-tax system to encourage people to save and invest more, died on Tuesday in Philadelphia. He was 66 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was burns he suffered after a Christmas tree caug
 Dr. Nathan Wright Jr., an Episcopal minister and scholar who was an early and prominent advocate of black power, died on Tuesday at his home in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 81. The cause was kidney disease, his son Chi said. Dr. Wright's greatest fame came in 1967, when he w
 Harald Szeemann, an influential Swiss museum curator whose groundbreaking exhibitions helped redefine his profession, died last Friday in the Ticino region of Switzerland. He was 71. His death was announced by the Venice Biennale and the Kunsthaus Zürich, for which he worked.      
 Harry M. Simeone, a conductor and arranger whose choral singers helped popularize Christmas evergreens like ''The Little Drummer Boy,'' died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. The death was announced by his family.     
 Hugh W. Nibley, a Mormon religious scholar who was one of the most active and outspoken defenders of Mormon writings and teachings, died yesterday at his home in Provo, Utah. He was 94. A spokesman for the family, Chris Thomas, said Dr. Nibley had been in declining health in recent 
 Robert Koff, a founding member of the Juilliard String Quartet and a concert violinist who performed on modern and Baroque instruments, died on Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 86. His family said that he had been ill for two years. Mr. Koff, along with the vio
 Tom Patterson, the native son who dreamed of and started the Stratford Festival of Canada, the largest repertory theater in North America, died on Sunday at a hospital in Toronto. He was 84. His death was made public by the festival's artistic director, Richard Monette. Now made up 
 Israel Stollman, an urban planner and former executive director of the American Planning Association in Washington, died on Feb. 2 in Christchurch, New Zealand, where he was on a family visit. He was 82 and lived in Washington. The association, announcing the death, said it resulted
 John Ebstein, an industrial designer employed by Raymond Loewy, the ''father of streamlining,'' who led the team that created the Studebaker Avanti sports car and influenced the look of products including Lucky Strike cigarettes and Greyhound buses, died on Feb. 18 in Palm Beach Gardens, Fl
 Henry A. Grunwald, a refugee from Nazi-dominated Austria who rose to become Time magazine's top editor and later returned to Vienna as the United States ambassador, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter Mandy. Mr. 
 Peter Palazzo, an editorial art director who redesigned The New York Herald Tribune in 1963 and helped start a genre that he called journalistic design, died on Jan. 30 in Glens Falls, N.Y. He would have been 79 on Feb. 2. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Danielle. In 19
 Jef Raskin, a computer technology pioneer who started the team that created the Macintosh computer, died Saturday at his home in Pacifica, Calif., at age 61. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Linda Blum. Mr. Raskin, who named the Macintosh after his favorite apple but 
 Peter Benenson, a British lawyer whose outrage over the imprisonment of two Portuguese students for drinking a toast to liberty spawned the human rights organization Amnesty International in 1961, died Friday in a hospital in Oxford, England. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, said
