 George A. Butler, a retired president of the Corestates Financial Corporation, died Aug. 22 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 69 and lived in Blue Bell, Pa. He died of lymphoma, said a son, Thomas S. Butler. Mr. Butler spent his entire
 John Jermain Slocum, a retired Foreign Service officer, scholar and bibliophile whose James Joyce collection formed part of Yale University's trove of rare books, died on Aug. 12 at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 83 and lived in Newport. A native of Lakewood, N.J., he grad
 BLAIR-Stephen Wilkens. Age 53 of Boston, suddenly on August 29, 1997. Husband of Mary (Beldo) Blair of Boston. Father of Clark Blair of Boston and Ann Blair Silvers of Mesa, AZ. Son of George A. Blair of Andover, NH, and the late Madeline (Collins) Blair. Brother of Geoffrey Blair of NH. Me
 FISHELMAN-Herbert. On August 26, 1997. Businessman, proprietor of Plaza Furniture Company of Jackson Heights and NYC, friend of organized labor, accomplished violinist, selflessly shared his love, kindness, humor, wisdom and optimism with friends and family for 76 years. He is mourned by Ha
 HABER-Max. Of Palm Beach, FL, (formerly of Harrison, NY) on August 29, 1997. Beloved and adored husband of Faye, cherished and devoted father of Robert and Kenneth, loving father-in-law of Roslyn and Adrienne, adored and special grandfather of Jonathan, Jennifer, Brett, Jaime and Adam. We w
 LEVINE-Abraham, Esq. Died peacefully on August 30, 1997, in Tamarac, FL, at the age of 87. Beloved and cared for by his children Sara, Joel and Charles, and especially by daughter-in-law Suarni during his last days. Survived by brother Louie and sister Tillie Lipp, by son-in-law Jeff Goodma
 SHELDON-Max. Beloved husband for 63 years of Bernice. Loving father of Edward and Barbara, and Robert and Barbara. Adored grandfather of Amy, Wendy, Jeffrey and Peter. Graveside services Westchester Hills Cemetery, Saw Mill River Road, Hastings On Hudson, NY, Monday at 11 AM. SHELDO
 VOSO-Robert Franklin. Died August 30, 1997, at the age of 63. He is survived by his wife Turid (Larsen); a son Robert A. of Phoenixville, PA; his daughter Karen Marie Alboum of Hillsborough, NJ; two brothers Louis of East Greenwich, NY, and Frank of Courtland Manor, NY; a sister Florence Po
 Quach Tom, a Vietnamese who parachuted into North Vietnam as a commando for the Central Intelligence Agency, evaded capture for three months and then survived almost 19 years of harsh imprisonment as a spy, died on Wednesday at the Columbia Northlake Regional Medical Center in Chamblee, Ga.
 Prof. Richard Skalak, a pioneer in bioengineering and biomechanics who taught at Columbia University in New York for more than 40 years, died on Aug. 17 at his home in San Diego. He was 74. The cause was melanoma, said a spokeswoman for the University of California at San Diego, whe
 Dr. Ernest Schwarcz, a dean emeritus at Queens College of City University who raised its continuing-education enrollment from dozens to thousands of older adults seeking degrees or just recharging their minds, died last Tuesday after being struck by a car near his home in Fresh Meadows, Que
 John F. Eichorn Jr., a retired chairman and chief executive of Eastern Utilities Associates who played a significant role in completing the Seabrook nuclear plant in New Hampshire, died of cancer on Aug. 19. He was 73 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Eichorn headed Eastern, an 
 CONNOR-Ralph. Age 87. Died peacefully August 29 in Seattle, WA., surrounded by his family. He made a lasting contribution to the community of Dutchess County, N.Y., as a friend and generous supporter of Oakwood Friends School, Vassar College, Vassar Brothers Hospital, Marist College and the
 FLYNN-Jerome P. On August 31, 1997. Beloved husband of Annabel (nee Midtbo). Beloved father of Thomas, Margaret Kelly, Dennis, Anne, Peter and the late John. Dear brother of the late Brother Dennis Flynn, C.F.X., and Brother Leroy Flynn, C.F.X. Loving grandfather of Alyson & Kathleen Kelly,
 HABER-Max. Of Palm Beach, Florida, (formerly of Harrison, NY) on August 29, 1997. Beloved and adored husband of Faye, cherished and devoted father of Robert & Kenneth, loving fatherin-law of Roslyn and Adrienne, adored and special grandfather of Jonathan, Jennifer, Brett, Jaime and Adam. We
 KANTOR-Shepard J. The Officers and Members of the NY Psychoanalytic Society and Institute wish to express their profound sorrow about the untimely death of their esteemed young colleague, Dr. Shepard J. Kantor. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, also our colleague, Dr. Arlene Heyma
 KOSMACHER-Harry A. Patriach, businessman, and community leader, peacefully at 96, August 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Estelle. Devoted father of Lois and the late Kenneth. He will be dearly missed by daughter-in -law Mildred Richter, grandchildren Karen Lazar, Steven, Richard and Jeffrey Ko
 LEVINE-Abraham. Formerly of NY. Husband of the late Rose (Ackman). Beloved father, grandfather, brother, uncle and granduncle. A brilliant lawyer and mentor, he was a benefactor to many, while taking pleasure in playing the role of curmudgeon. His memory will be cherished and he will be mis
 PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. Mr. Peterkin is survived and missed by his wife Katharine Urban, two daughters Clare and Kate, three sons DeWitt III, George, and Patrick and his wife Jenn
 WALKER-James Wear, of Hobe Sound Fla., formerly of Oyster Bay, New York, died on August 30 after suffering a heart attack. Son of the founder of the international Walker Cup competition, he was a lifelong golfer and devoted family man. Husband of the late Sara Mitchell Walker. Survived by b
 Sam Chase, a broadcasting and publishing executive who won awards for programming dealing with civil rights, died of natural causes on Aug. 11 in Mexico, his son, Bradley, said. He was 80. A radio program that Mr. Chase, who was white, created and produced won a Peabody Award in 196
 AIELLO-David, age 58, born March 17th, 1939, the son of Helen Aiello, last known to have resided in the Brooklyn area. He died Saturday, August 30th, 1997 in Rome Memorial Hospital. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please contact the Rome DDSO collect, 315-336-2300, with a
 BEEUWKES-Lambert Baer, of Atlanta, GA passed away August 31, 1997 in Atlanta. He is survived by his wife, Eleanor B. Beeuwkes; son and daughter-in-law, Foster L. and Adrienne Beeuwkes and grandchildren Foster II & Nicholas Beeuwkes. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Sept. 6 at 1:30 
 BOLGER-John, of Littleton, Aug. 30, Colonel USAF Ret. Husband of Mary (Calhoun) Bolger of Littleton, also survived by 7 children. John (and Lorraine) of Cornwell N.Y., Patrick (and Nancy King) of Holliston, MA., Margaret (and Edward) Matthews of Groton, MA. Kathleen (and Richard Duggan) of 
 DRUMMOND-Donald W., 93, of Vero Beach, died August 29, 1997 at his residence after a brief illness. He was born December 28, 1903 in Philadelphia, PA, and moved to Vero Beach 30 years ago from Morrisville, PA. He graduated from Wharton University of Pennsylvania. He had a long and distingui
 FEARER-Joseph L., 87, of West Hartford, CT., and New York City died September 1 in North Branford, CT. He was husband of the late Eunice Holzman Fearer, father of Paul Fearer and Jane Fearer Safer, grandfather of Sarah Safer. Private burial is at Arlington National Cemetery. Funeral service
 FRASER-Alistair Graeme, retired Clerk of the House of Commons, at Ottawa, on September 1, 1997, after a brief illness. Born at Toronto, January 5, 1923, son of the late Jane Graeme (Ross) and the late Hon. Alistair Fraser. Educated at schools in Montreal and Shawnigan Lake, B.C. He served a
 FREUNDLICH-Dr. Harry. The name of Andrew Seth Kalb, the deceased son of Evelyn Mollet and a favorite grandson of Dr. Harry, was inadvertently not mentioned in his obituary. Andrew will always be remembered in our hearts.       
 GUNNISON-Walter Balfour. On Aug. 31, at his home in Sacramento, CA. Born Canton, NY, February 21, 1910. He is survived by his son, Robert B. Gunnison; daughter-inlaw, Jan Turner Gunnison; and granddaughters, Katherine Poste Gunnison, Emelie Carpenter Gunnison, and Anne Turner Gunnison. Serv
 KATZ-Mo. On August 31, 1997. A man of many parts. Enormously gifted in intellect, artistic in temperament, & forthright in manner, Mo Katz was a loving husband of Mary Jane Koren, a fiercely proud father of Zev and Ivon Katz and devoted grandfather of Nicholas Katz. He was a tenacious frien
 KOSMACHER-Harry A. Patriarch, businessman, and community leader, peacefully at 96, August 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Estelle. Devoted father of Lois and the late Kenneth. He will be dearly missed by daughter-in -law Mildred Richter, grandchildren Karen Lazar, Steven, Richard and Jeffrey K
 KREISER-Joshua. Rabbi Emeritus of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, N.Y. After over 30 years of devoted service. Beloved father of Dr. Abraham and Hemdah Kreiser, Dr. Sara Feinstein, Rabbi Shabtai and Orah Rubel, Dr. Yehudah and Edna Freidenberg. Adored grandfather and great-grandf
 LABONACK-C. John, August 31st. Pres., Plaza Tool & Die Co. His skills and knowledge as designer, engineer, master craftsman, were generously shared. Purple Heart veteran W.W. II, devoted to community and country. A.S.I.       
 MEYER-Victor B., Ph.D., 76, organic chemist, on August 31st. We have lost a brilliant mind tragically destroyed by Alzheimer's disease. In profound sorrow: his beloved wife of fifty years, Evelyn; cherished sons, Dan and Jonathan; devoted sister and brother-in-law, Gloria and Benjamin Rothb
 NEWMAN-Victor. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Victor Newman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 O'ROURKE-John J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John J. O'Rourke a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Victor D. Ziminsky, Jr., President Robert J. Reilly, Historian      
 PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. Mr. Peterkin is survived and missed by his wife Katharine Urban, two daughters Clare and Kate, three sons DeWitt III, George, and Patrick and his wife Jenn
 RIVKIN - Bruce Charles. He sparkled with love and human kindness. Aunt Gracie       
 SALMON-Hamilton H., III, 78, of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., formerly of Garden City, L.I. and Lake Placid, NY., died August 31, 1997. He was born January 10, 1919 in Brooklyn, NY, the son of Ruth and Hamilton H. Salmon, Jr. He attended Choate and graduated from Princeton in 1941. He served in t
 SELWYN-Alexander. Age 82, of West Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Ruth. Father of Lee and Philip. Grandfather of Eric, Mark, Jeremy and Amanda. Brother of Irving Zelevansky, Sam Zelevansky, the late Joseph Zelevansky and the late Philip Zelevansky, and friend to many. Contributions 
 SHAPIRO-Alexander. Died Aug. 29, 1997, at his home in his 94th year. Beloved husband to the late Rose for over 65 years, father of Irwin (Ruth) Shapiro and Barbara (Manfred) Joseph, grandfather of Paula and Howard Friedman, Deborah & Warren Hammerschlag, Michael & Faiga Joseph, Samuel & Mon
 van HAMEL-Diederik A. of Woodstock, NY age 86, former Consul General of the Netherlands in New York from 1966 until 1972 died August 31, 1997. Surviving are his wife Manette Cramer van Hamel, three children, Alfred, Willem, and Martine van Hamel. Funeral services were private.       
 WERTHEIM-Samuel ''Bill.'' Died September 1, 1997, in his 97th year. Beloved husband of Sylvia and the late Grace Tirnauer. Deeply loved by his daughters and sons-in-law, Ruth and Stanley Kaplan, Joan and Jules Levine, loving grandchildren and great grandchildren and Marcy and Joe Sugarman, 
 ZUCKER-Nat. On September 2, 1997. Resident of Manhattan for all his more than 92 years. Survived by his wife of 67 years, two sons, one daughter, five grandchildren and five great grandchildren.       
 Sir Rudolf Bing, who as the dapper and acerbic general manager of the Metropolitan Opera from 1950 to 1972 ushered the company into the modern era and into Lincoln Center, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 95 and lived at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in
 Viktor E. Frankl, who used his experiences as a prisoner in German concentration camps in World War II to write ''Man's Search for Meaning,'' an enduring work of survival literature, and to open new avenues for modern psychotherapy, died on Tuesday in Vienna. He was 92 and was considered to
 AIELLO-David, age 58, born March 17th, 1939, the son of Helen Aiello, last known to have resided in the Brooklyn area. He died Saturday, August 30th, 1997 in Rome Memorial Hospital. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please contact the Rome DDSO collect, 315-336-2300, with a
 BALDWIN-Henry deForest, of New York, NY and Roxbury, CT, died Tuesday, September 2, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital from respiratory failure due to ALS, known as Lou Gehrig's disease. He was a Trusts and Estates partner at the law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. Previously, he was a part
 BING-Rudolf. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of former general manager Rudolf Bing. A consummate man of the theatre and the last of the great impresarios, Sir Rudolf served our company for close to a quarter of a century, guiding the Metropolitan to new heights of artistic ac
 CHESTER-Eugene. An extraordinary and honorable man, whose love and devotion to his family are only matched by theirs for him. Funeral services Thursday 10 A.M. at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY, opp LIRR.       
 FEARER-Joseph L., 87, of West Hartford, CT., and New York City died September 1 in North Branford, CT. He was husband of the late Eunice Holzman Fearer, father of Paul Fearer and Jane Fearer Safer, grandfather of Sarah Safer. Private burial is at Arlington National Cemetery. Funeral service
 FREUNDLICH-Ralph B. (aka Ray Friendly). Age 84 of Bisbee, Arizona. Formerly of New York City on September 2, 1997, after a protracted illness. Musician, teacher, composer, artist, writer and advocate. Loving brother of Jules of Minneapolis, Minnesota and the late Irwin. Devoted brother-in-l
 GERARD-Fred N., age 67, of Phoenix, Arizona and New York City on September 1, 1997 at his home. Loving father of Daniele and Gregory, father-in-law of Dan, grandfather of Fiona.       
 HAFT-Ed. The Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Middle Bay Country Club mourn the loss of our esteemed member. He was a great fighter, a wonderful friend and terrific person. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his loving family and all those who knew him and will miss him.       
 KATZ-Mo. Montefiore Medical Center sadly records the passing of a brilliant visionary, Mo Katz, former deputy director for policy and program development and vice president of planning at Montefiore. A highly respected hospital administrator at the medical center for twenty-eight years, he 
 KOMINSKI-John W. On August 30, 1997. Revered environmental and science educator. Founding Executive Director of Alley Pond Environmental Center, former Chair of Environmental Education Advisory Council, Assistant Director Science NYC Board of Education, Coordinator Outdoor and Environmental
 LEERBURGER-Ethel K., wife of the late Franklin J. Leerburger, beloved mother of Karen Hartnick and Marna Biederman, beloved mother-in-law of Alan J. Hartnick and Donald E. Biederman, devoted grandmother of Charles and Melissa Biederman, Jonathan (deceased), Katherine, Margaret and Christoph
 PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 5 at 11 AM at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 1864 Post Rd., Darien, CT. In lieu of flowers contributions
 RIVKIN-Bruce Charles, on September 2, at age 43 of brain cancer. Attorney, CPA, executive, community leader and focal point of both his immediate family and his wide ranging extended family. An extraordinary individual who never stopped giving of himself, he was deeply loved and his memory 
 SCHWARCZ-Dean Ernest. The Central Queens YM & YWHA records with profound sorrow the passing of Dean Ernest Schwarcz. An outstanding and distinguished community leader, his vision was responsible for the establishment of the Rabbi Simon Hevesi Jewish Heritage Library, a Jewish public library
 SMALLEN-Harry. 87. Died on September 2 after a long illness in North Miami Beach, FL. Formerly a resident of New Haven and NY. Veteran of W.W. II. Survived by his wife, Edith of North Miami Beach, FL and his brother, Dr. Edward in Lakewood, New Jersey.       
 STIEFEL-Prof. Dr. Ernest C., died at 89 in Baden-Baden Germany on September 3, 1997. Born Mannheim, Germany, October 29, 1907. Member of the bars of New York, Germany, France and England. Distinguished international lawyer, legal scholar and author. Adjunct Professor at New York Law School.
 STRICKLAND-Harold Allison, Jr., 82, of Vero Beach, FL., formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut, died on September 3, 1997. He was born February 5, 1915 in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Harold A. and Mary (Pugh) Strickland; m. Ruth Voigt, May 29, 1940 (dec. 1982); m. Anne Muir King, May 18, 1985
 TANENBAUM-Sidney, formerly of Lynbrook, NY. On Tuesday, September 2, 1997, at his home in West Palm Beach, Florida. He is survived by his daughter Amy, son Jay and brother Mel Tanenbaum. His warmth, humor and generosity touched us all and he will be long remembered.       
 TOTH-Alexander, M.D., D.D.S. Alexander Toth, 81, died on September 2, 1997. Dr. Toth was born October 22, 1915 in Koronco, Hungary. He moved to the United States with his family from Gyor, Hungary in 1956. For the better part of his professional career he practiced dentistry in New Brunswic
 Aldo Rossi, the Italian architect known for works of monumental simplicity and power, died yesterday in Milan, where he lived. He was 66. His Manhattan office said he died as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident last week as he drove to his weekend home on the Lago Maggi
 DeWitt Peterkin Jr., a former vice chairman and director of J. P. Morgan & Company, died last Friday at Waveny Care Center in New Canaan, Conn. He was 84. The cause of death was heart failure and complications from Parkinson's disease, his wife, Katharine, said. Mr. Peterkin
 Lieut. Col. Edwin Maurice McConnell, the last of the three ''Flying McConnell Brothers'' of World War II whose name was given to an air base in Kansas, died on Monday at his home in Englewood, Colo. He was 76. He had suffered for some time from leukemia and Parkinson's disease, his 
 The Most Rev. Joseph A. Francis, an auxiliary bishop of Newark for 19 years who was one of the first black priests in the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church to speak out against racism, died on Monday at the Claridge House, a home for retired priests in Verona, N.J. He was 73. T
 Joseph Thomas O'Keefe, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse from 1987 to 1995 and temporary head of the Archdiocese of New York for six months in the early 1980's, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Syracuse. He was 78 and lived in Syracuse. The cause was heart 
 BALDWIN-Henry deForest, of New York, NY and Roxbury, CT, died Tuesday, September 2, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital from respiratory failure due to ALS, known as Lou Gehrig's disease. He was a Trusts and Estates partner at the law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. Previously, he was a part
 BANKS-Richard D. Age 45. Died August 30th of AIDS, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his mother Helen Bangs; sister Claudia; brothers David and Gregg; sisters-in-law Cary and Kristy; and six nephews and nieces. Will now join his late companion Joseph Tonti. Richard showed great co
 BING-Rudolf. The Board, Officers and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Sir Rudolf Bing, former General Manager of the Metropolitan Opera. It is with great respect and appreciation that we recall his role in guiding the Metropolitan Opera Association 
 BORRELL - Brother Leonard, F.S.C., 84, passed away peacefully in his sleep on Sept 4, 1997. Calling hours will be held at De La Salle Hall, 810 Newman Springs Rd., Lincroft, NJ on Friday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. and Saturday from 2-4 P.M. The Funeral Liturgy will be celebrated at De La Salle Hall C
 FEARER-Joseph L., 87, of West Hartford, CT., and New York City died September 1 in North Branford, CT. He was husband of the late Eunice Holzman Fearer, father of Paul Fearer and Jane Fearer Safer, grandfather of Sarah Safer. Private burial is at Arlington National Cemetery. Funeral service
 FRIEDMAN-Jack, passed away September 3rd. Husband of Rae. Father of Robin and Mark Friedman and Eve Fox. Grandfather of Andrew and Alyson Fox and Hallie and Jon Friedman. Brother of Sylvia Schaefer. Service today at noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. FR
 KATZ-Mo. The DOROT community sadly mourns the passing of Mo Katz. He warmly embraced our mission, guided our vision, and kept us laughing. He was a generous humanitarian, with a twinkle in his eye and an undaunted zest for life. We will always remember him a champion of the elderly and a tr
 McGEE-Rev. Thomas F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of St. Francis de Sales Church, Belle Harbor, on Sept. 3. Reposing in Evergreen Funeral Home, 131 Nassau Ave., Friday, Sept. 5, 2-5 P.M. Mass of Transferral Friday, Sept. 5 at 7:30 P.M. in St. Ce
 NUTKIS-Martin I. Of Roslyn Heights, New York. On September 4th, 1997. World War 11 Veteran. Beloved and adored husband of Pearl. Cherished and devoted father of Susan, Elyse and David. Loving father-in-law of Leslie, Rick and Peter. Adored and special grandfather of Samuel, Lucas, Isabella,
 PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 5 at 11 AM at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 1864 Post Rd., Darien, CT. In lieu of flowers contributions
 PRAGER-David. The Board of Directors and Faculty of the Diller Quaile School of Music mourns the recent passing of David Prager, who served as President of the Board during a critical time in Diller Quaile's history. Mr. Prager led the school through a period of substantial growth and in 19
 RIVKIN-Bruce. Lives he touched are enriched forever. Love to Susan, Eric, Jason, Douglas, Charles, Tina, Ann. Janet and Richard       
 ROSENBLUM-William, 81, of Del Ray Beach, FL. passed away Aug. 29, 1997. Retired from Reliable Textiles. William is survived by his wife Anne; daughters Linda and Nancy and six grandchildren.       
 SHAPIRO-Alexander. Lido Beach Synagogue mourns the death of the beloved father of our esteemed Board of Trustee member Irwin Shapiro. May he and his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Mehlman, Rabbi Herman Berger, President       
 SISKIND-Erwin. Died September 2, 1997. Loving husband of Rosella; devoted father of Jerry (and Sharon) and Eric, cherished grandfather of Sarah and Jessica. Also survived by his brothers Leonard and Eliott. Services Friday at 12 noon at Bouelvard-Nassau North Chapels, 65 North Station Plaza
 STIEFEL-Ernst C. The entire New York Law School community mourns the loss of Dr. Ernst C. Stiefel, a man of great intellect, compassion and wit. We are deeply indebted to him for his many generous gifts to the School, including the restoration of the Ernst Steifel Reading Room and his endow
 STIEFEL-Prof. Dr. Ernest C. The American Federation of Jews from Central Europe mourns the death of one of its founding members, a brilliant and great human being. We shall miss his counsel and friendship. Fritz Weinschenk, President       
 TOTH-Alexander, M.D., D.D.S. Alexander Toth, 81, died on September 2, 1997. Dr. Toth was born October 22, 1915 in Koronco, Hungary. He moved to the United States with his family from Gyor, Hungary in 1956. For the better part of his professional career he practiced dentistry in New Brunswic
 WALKER-Jack, of Manhattan, died September 4, 1997 at age 72. He is survived by his beloved Phyllis Altman; children; Jeffrey, Michael and Samantha; grandchildren; Orion, Joshua, Ethan and Rachel; his two brothers Gerald and Newton. He will be dearly missed. Service will be held Sunday 1:30P
 WELCH-Robert Allan, 55, died suddenly on Saturday, August 23, while swimming in the Merrimac River near the historic Rocks Village section of Haverhill, Massachusetts. He was a passionate sailor, a poet and a loving father. Born in Elgin, Illinois, the son of Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDougall and
 Ronald L. Bittner, chairman of the Frontier Corporation, the corporate parent of Rochester Telephone, died Sunday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y., two weeks after he stepped down as chief executive. Mr. Bittner was 55. Mr. Bittner underwent surgery on Dec. 31, 1996, to remove a brain
 Sir Georg Solti, the vigorous and exacting Hungarian-born conductor who shaped the Chicago Symphony Orchestra into a gleaming virtuoso instrument during his 22 years as its music director, and who won more Grammy Awards than any other performer, classical or pop, died yesterday while visiti
 Bradley Smith, a photographer for Life magazine and a founder of the American Society of Magazine Photographers, died on Aug. 28 at a nursing home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 and lived in La Jolla. Mr. Smith was born in New Orleans on June 30, 1910. The son of a railroad telegraph
 Ernst C. Stiefel, a German-born Jewish lawyer whose answer to Adolf Hitler was to become one of Germany's pre-eminent lawyers -- while practicing in New York -- died on Wednesday at a hospital in Baden-Baden. He was 89. In a half-century of advising American corporate investors on t
 Harold Elwood Yuker, a psychologist who defied the cerebral palsy with which he was born to become a leading educator at Hofstra University and an authority on attitudes toward the disabled, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Bellmore, N.Y. He was 73. The cause of death was hypertension
 BRUST-Saul. Died Sept. 4, 1997. Beloved brother of Mary Ann Frieder and Norman Brust. Brother-in-law of Robert Frieder, uncle of Mark Frieder, Laura Darnell, Gina Frieder and Eric Darnell. Great-uncle of Lisa Frieder, Stephen Frieder, Rex Darnell, & Leah Darnell.''A truly gentle man.''     
 DIAMOND-Ira, MD. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, Administration and employees of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center express with great sorrow the passing of its esteemed member of the Department of Medicine. He was a dedicated internist and hematologist, beloved by h
 FEARER-Joseph L., 87, of West Hartford, CT., and New York City died September 1 in North Branford, CT. He was husband of the late Eunice Holzman Fearer, father of Paul Fearer and Jane Fearer Safer, grandfather of Sarah Safer. Private burial is at Arlington National Cemetery. Funeral service
 FREUNDLICH-Ralph B. (aka Ray Friendly). Age 84 of Bisbee, Arizona. Formerly of New York City on September 2, 1997, after a protracted illness. Musician, teacher, composer, artist, writer and advocate. Loving brother of Jules of Minneapolis, Minnesota and the late Irwin. Devoted brother-in-l
 GOTTSEGEN-Irving. Age 81. Died suddenly at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y., on September 4, 1997. A man who brought the same warmth, humor, patience, and love he showed his family to his forty year career as a hospital administrator. After service in the Second World War, he went to Montefi
 LESSER-Frank. Commissioner of the Great Neck Water Pollution Control District, Democratic State Committeeman, died on September 4, 1997. He will be greatly missed by his beloved wife Deena, children Steven, Laura and Julie, seven adoring grandchildren, sister Carolyn Frucht, brother Stephen
 RUDOLPH-Paul. The board, officers and staff of the Architectural League of New York mourn the passing of the eminent architect, Paul Rudolph, a longtime member of the League. Paul Rudolph influenced generations of architects in the United States and abroad through his leadership of the Yale
 SCHNEITZER-Herbert. Died at home September 6, 1997. Family mourns the loss of beloved husband of Mildred, father of Leila, father-in-law of Gregg, grandfather of Jordan, brother of Sylvia and Zelda. Devoted his life to his family. Services Monday, 1 PM, at Sherman's Flatbush Memorial Chapel
 SHAINSWIT-George, age 79, of Forest Hills, NY, died September 5 at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was one of the country's foremost chess masters. He is mourned by his beloved wife, Lisa of 54 years, his daughter, Carol of NYC, son, Joseph, daughter-in-law, Jane, and grandchildren Ashley and Gr
 SHERWIN-Irving. Died Sept 2. A renaissance man, he was a believer in the quest for loving, learning and living. Always in pursuit of personal and relational excellence. He found beauty and joy in all of life. He realized a life full of experiences only a few could imagine. A traveler in bot
 STARKMAN - Martin. Family mourns the loss of husband of Rhea, father of Hope and Dawn. Brother of Esther and husband Bob. Devoted his life to his family.       
 STREET-Alfred M., of Darien, CT., on August 26, 1997. He was a retired officer for Jenkins Brothers in NYC. Husband of Ruth H. Street. Father of Sally Street Sturner. Grandfather of Paige Sturner Sabine, Pamela Sturner, & Kristin Sturner. Brother-in-law of Virginia Cairns & Bettina Canfield
 VICINI-Felipe J., of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, died September 5th at Memorial SloanKettering Hospital. He was President of the Vicini family sugar production company, CAEI, and its affiliates. He was the Dominican Special Envoy to the International Sugar Organization, as well as Do
 COSTELLO-Walter. Thank you St. Jude for Walter Costello's health. From his wife       
 RABON-Jay L. A genuine Southern gentleman who had a fascination with the world. Always amusing, kind, charming, loving and compassionate; he lived intensely and left us suddenly and unexpectedly of heart failure on the beaches of Corsica, France, on August 6, 1997. He was one of those truly
 Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a renowned hospital administrator who in three decades at Montefiore Medical Center built it into a respected teaching institution, and who as a top adviser to Mayor Edward I. Koch oversaw changes to the city's Medical Examiner's office in the late 1980's, died at his 
 Jack Avrett, the co-chairman and founder of Avrett, Free & Ginsberg, an advertising agency, died on Aug. 29 at New York Hospital. He was 68. The cause of death was a hemorrhagic stroke, his wife, Roz, said. Mr. Avrett started the Project Group, which evolved into Avrett, Fre
 Leon Edel, the biographer whose writing on Henry James won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award, died on Friday in Honolulu. He was 89 and lived in Honolulu. Mr. Edel's wife, the former Marjorie Putnam, said he collapsed at home from what she thought was a heart attack and was
 Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's longtime dictator and the last of a generation of cold war rulers who grew fabulously rich by providing a bulwark against Communism, died in exile yesterday in Rabat, Morocco, after a long battle with prostate cancer. He was 66 years old. Having held Zaire 
 ARTINIAN-Edward, 61. Of Chatham, NJ. Husband of Patricia. Died peacefully in his sleep early Sunday morning. He is survived by his loving wife Patricia Strzepek, his father Agisha, sisters Elizabeth Nahabedian and Julia Cox, nieces Paula Gordan, Lenora Cox, Johanna Cox and Elizabeth Bendsch
 COHEN-Wolfe. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his death with profound sorrow. His long life was a blessing to his family and we wish them all our heartfelt condolences. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen Saxl, President       
 FRIEDMAN-Jack. The family of Sylvia and Harry Schaefer deeply mourn the loss of Sylvia's brother, Jack Friedman. We shall sorely miss him. Sylvia and Harry Schaefer Faith and Howard Drucker Jill and Ken Iscol Beth and Victor Sperber       
 HARRIS-Bernard C., beloved husband, father and grandfather, died September 2nd in Pentwater, Michigan, at the age of 82. Born in Victoria, British Columbia, on October 12, 1914, he is survived by his wife of 50 years, Charlotte; five children, William of Stamford, CT, Thomas of Tucson, AZ, 
 JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. Of Riverdale and Westhampton Beach, NY, on September 6. Professor of clincial pediatrics at Columbia Univeristy College of Physicians and Surgeons. Beloved husband for 43 years of Isabel Fenster Jacobs. Devoted father of Deborah L. Jacobs (Ken Stern), Daniel S. Jacobs,
 KAHN-Malcolm ''Bud''. Died peacefully at home after an heroic battle with cancer. Devoted and beloved husband of Sandra, wonderful father to Andrew, Jeffrey and Tara, Michael and Laura, adored ''Poppy'' to Jacob, Alexander and Malcolm, cherished brother of Shirley and Sid Zeitlin, Ted and M
 MARKOWITZ-Mitchell. On September 6, 1997. Beloved husband of Ileen. Dear son-in-law of Judy and Ben Liss. Also survived by his sister Randi Glicksman. An inpirational healer to thousands of patinets lives his caring hands touched. Private family services.       
 MAZUR-Frank. Sculptor. Born 1910 in the Ukraine. Died September 3, 1997, in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Nancy, devoted brother of Yetta Rudin Steingart, deceased; loving uncle of Anita Handel, Jerome Rudin, Arnold and Nancy W. Mazur and Jay Mazur; adored great-uncle of Sharon, Ira and 
 RIFKIN-Mitchell. The Seawane Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Mitchell Rifkin. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Rose and family. Robert Roman, President       
 SOLTI-Sir Georg. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall join the music world in mourning the loss of Sir Georg Solti. One of the world's leading conductors, he played an important role in the history of Carnegie Hall, most centrally with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Recently hi
 STEINMAN-Lewis. On September 6, 1997, peacefully at Hartford Hospital, surrounded by his loving family, adored and adoring wife, Joan of 43 years; beloved sons Jeffrey, Peter and Robert; daughter-in-law Jody; and dear friends Robyn and Todd. Also survived by his much adored grandson Carlo; 
 WATKINS-Thomas T. Music librarian, 79, died September 5, 1997, after a long illness. His ashes will be buried in Nesquahoning, PA, Protestant Cemetery in a private ceremony.       
 Derek Taylor, a publicity spokesman for the Beatles, the Byrds, the Beach Boys and other groups in the 1960's, and the author of several books that captured the spirit of the era, died on Sunday at his home near Sudbury, in Suffolk, England. He was 65. Geoff Baker, a friend, said th
 John A. Esposito, a former Republican State Assemblyman who ran for mayor of New York on the Conservative Party ticket in 1981, died on Sunday in Garden City, N.Y., at the home of a daughter. He was 69. He died after long battle with lung cancer, said another daughter, Patricia Todd
 ALFANDRE-Julian E. On September 7, 1997. Beloved father of Rachel, James and David. Funeral Service at John J. Fox Funeral Home, 2080 Boston Post Road, Larchmont, N.Y., on Wednesday 11 AM. Memorial contributions to Amnesty International USA, 322 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10001 are w
 BING-Rudolf. Columbia Artists Management Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Sir Rudolf Bing. During his many years as General Manager of the Metropolitan Opera, Sir Rudolf made extraordinary contributions to the field. He instilled a new atmosphere of artistic 
 BLISS-John F., 84, of Southbury, CT. Died at Waterbury Hospital on Sept. 5, 1997 after a brief illness. Survived by his wife, Jessie Hardy and daughter, Caroline. Memorial service St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Woodbury, September 19, 11 A.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions to your favorite
 CHARNAY-Leonard, 81, of Lake Worth, FL. Formerly of Hewlett, NY, passed away on September 8th, 1997 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Jean. Adoring father of Patricia and Michael Gorman and Richard and Ruth Charnay. Loving grandfather of Matthew and Aaron. Dear brother of Bernard Cha
 CHERKASKY-Martin, MD. Former President of Montefiore Medical Center. Died at his home on September 7. Husband of Carole Pesner. Father of Marny Cherkasky & Michael Cherkasky, brother of Fanny Goldstein, father-in-law of Richard Brodman and Betsey Cherkasky, grandfather of Eli, Susannah, Eth
 ESPOSITO-John A. Former six-term Assemblyman John A. Esposito of Queens Village, NY, died Sunday, September 7, after a long bout with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Estelle (Nee Boos), and three children, Anne Anderson, M.D., of Garden City, Patricia Todd, of New Hartford, and Thomas E
 GRUNEBAUM-Edward J. Died on September 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of James, the late Andrew, and Robert. Loving grandfather of Jason. Family receiving Wednesday from 7-9 P.M., 5 Riverside Drive. Contributions may be made in his memory to the Jewish Guild for the Blind 
 JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Jerry Jacobs. Dr. Jacobs was a renowned authority on juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and epitomized commitment to and care for children. A worldwide lecturer, he frequently spoke on dis
 KAHN-Malcolm ''Bud''. Died peacefully at home after an heroic battle with cancer. Devoted and beloved husband of Sandra, wonderful father to Andrew, Jeffrey and Tara, Michael and Laura, adored ''Poppy'' to Jacob, Alexander and Malcolm, cherished brother of Shirley and Sid Zeitlin, Ted and M
 KAPLAN-Edgar. Died September 7, 1997. The President of the World Bridge Federation, Jose Damiani and the Executive Counsel, mourn the loss of their dear friend, Edgar Kaplan. Edgar's contribution to Bridge was not only as a worldclass player but as the author of ''The Laws of Duplicate Brid
 LEVINE-Maurice. The 92nd Street YM-YWHA Board of Directors and Staff deeply mourn the passing of Maurice Levine. As the artistic director of ''Lyrics & Lyricists'' for 27 consecutive years, Maurice lovingly guided the Y's popular series since its inception. His commitment to the 92nd Street
 ROTHENBERG-Werner William. Sept 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Irene. Devoted father of John and Randall, father-in-law of Andrea and Cheryl. Cherished grandfather of Arielle, Amanda and Daniel. We will miss him. His ashes will be laid to rest in Florida. Always in our hearts.       
 SCHRAM-John M. Beloved Sean who added the many colors of intelligence, warmth and humor to the lives of Lorraine; his sons, Michael, Stephen and Sean; his step-daughters, Rachel and Emily; and his many friends. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, September 13, at 11 AM, St. John's 
 SOLTI-Georg. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our esteemed colleague Georg Solti. One of music's giants, Sir Georg was to conduct the MET Orchestra this Spring, and we profoundly regret that this renewal of his relationship with our company will not come to pass. But, we remember 
 STECHLER-Zygmunt. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the community; beloved husband of Helen; father of Joseph (and Gail) Stechler-member, Yeshiva College Board of Directors-and Miriam (and Danny) Ravitz. We extend heartfelt condolences as well
 STEINMAN-Lewis. A true mentor and a compassionate man who always brought a smile to the faces of those around him. Lew was great to know, great to work with and great to talk to. He will be deeply missed. Our condolences to his loving wife Joan, sons Jeffrey, Peter and Robert, and the entir
 YASSER-Mac. Age 85, of Lake Worth, FL., died on September 7, 1997 peacefully surrounded by his family at the home of his daughter in Southampton, NY. He is survived by his loving wife, Esther, his children, Sandra and Alan Friedman, Roslyn and the late Jan Meren, and Alan and Nan Yasser, hi
 Hans J. Eysenck, one of the most distinguished, prolific and maddeningly perverse psychologists of his generation, died on Sept. 4 at a hospice in London. He was 81. Dr. Eysenck had been suffering from a malignant brain tumor for about a year, said Shirley Chumbley, his longtime sec
 BAXTER - Anthony Campbell. Born to John and Marion Baxter on April 27, 1939 in Garden City, New York. He was one of six children. He attended the College of The Holy Cross & was graduated from Cathedral College. Married to Margaret Mary Regan, April 29, 1967. After a successful executive ca
 BEGUN-Benson H. On September 8, 1997. Beloved husband of Angela, loving son of Ruth and the late Harry. Cherished father of Harold and Ellen, Matthew and Elizabeth, Daniel and devoted brother of Marcia, beloved cousin of Martin Begun. All mourn his passing after an arduous and difficult ill
 CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a giant in the field of hospital administration, and a longtime head of Montefiore Medical Center, one of our premier healthcare institutions. His dedication to the art o
 CRAVZOW-Hazel. Temple Israel Lawrence, New York, mourns the death of its beloved member and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 DOUCETTE-Arthur. September 8, 1997. Prominent ladies dress designer. Beloved son of Elva and the late Maurice Doucette, devoted brother of Robert. Service Thursday, 1:30 P.M., September 11, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made to the A
 ESPOSITO-John A. District Attorney Charles J. Hynes and all the staff of the Kings County District Attorney's Office mourns the passing of our friend and colleague John A. Esposito. John was a volunteer Assistant District Attorney in the Kings County District Attorney's Office, who passed a
 KAHN-Malcolm ''Bud''. The Association for the Help of Retarded Children (AHRC), Nassau Chapter, mourns the passing of former longtime board member, Bud Kahn. Although he was not a parent of a child with developmental disabilities, he was an active member of his local auxiliary and a tireles
 KAUFMAN-Bruce A. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Bruce A. Kaufman, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, Pres. Robert S. Puder, Sec'y       
 LEVINE-Maurice. Beloved husband of Bobbi Baird. Father of Tedra Schneider, Michael Levine, Whitney Levine and Sigmund Romberg Levine. Passed away Monday, September 8, 1997. The marinara sauce has ended, but the melody lingers on. Funeral service at Riverside Memorial on Wednesday, September
 LINDER-Bernard. On Sept. 8, 1997 A truly courageous gentleman in every sense of the word who was dearly loved by all and will be sorely missed. He is survived by his beloved wife Norma, his loving children Cheryl and Richard Davids and Suanne and Peter Chiacchiaro. Cherished grandchildren J
 PERLMAN-Bernard, MD. The Medical Staff Society of the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens grieves the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends heartfelt sympathy to his family. Marvin Leder, MD, President Talat Addasi, MD, Vice Pres. Gabriel Deangelis, MD, Secretary Treasurer 
 ROSBERGER-Dr. Henry. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Anne and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Bd. Robert P. Antler, President       
 SCHAFFER-Abraham I. The Cardiology Section of the Department of Medicine, Lenox Hill Hospital records with sadness the loss of a respected senior staff member. Even after retiring, ''Abe'' continued to participate in conferences encouraging younger cardiologists to emulate his dedicated app
 STEINMAN-Lewis. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece mourn the passing of our longtime friend and colleague, Lewis Steinman. We extend to his family our deep-felt sympathy and condolences.       
 WELDON-Henry L. September 8, 1997. Loving grandson of the late Louis M. Colton; son of the late Henry and Elizabeth Weldon; brother of Louise W. Floeckher of Palm Beach, FL; devoted father of Henry L. III and Alexander C. Cherished friend of Virginia Pagetti. Mass of Christian Burial, Frida
 Richie Ashburn, the Hall of Fame center fielder who starred for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and concluded his career as the lone All-Star and designated quipster for the original Mets of 1962, died yesterday. He was 70. Ashburn, a broadcaster for the
 Sabatino Moscati, an expert on Semitic languages whose work as an archeologist led him to champion the influence of Semitic peoples like the Phoenicians on the development of European culture, died at his home here on Monday. He was 74. Though known in scholarly circles for his exca
 Burgess Meredith, a virtuosic actor whose career spanned most of the 20th century and a multitude of performing arts, died on Tuesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 89. In the 1930's, he was hailed for his performances on Broadway in ''Winterset'' and two other Maxwell Anderso
 Lionel Chapman, an award-winning producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, an ABC spokesman said. Mr. Chapman, who worked in broadcast news for 20 years, joined ABC News in 1977 and became a producer for ''Nightl
 Lyle M. Nelson, who played a leading role in several graduate fellowship programs, including the John S. Knight Fellowships program at Stanford University, died on Friday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was heart failure, his wife, Corrine, said.       
 Maurice Levine, the founder and artistic director of the Lyrics and Lyricists series at the 92d Street Y, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, said Kate Cohen, associate director of public relations at t
 Michel Stuart, a member of the original company of ''A Chorus Line'' and later a costume designer and theatrical producer, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Malibu, Calif. He was 54, and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Stuart (whose first name was pronounced Michael) was born in
 BATTISTA-Anthony Harry, died September 5, 1997 in Orlando, Florida at the age of 81. A long time resident of New York City and a former member of Musician Local 802. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth and four brothers. Carey Hand Funeral Home, Orlando (407) 898-7881.       
 BERNTSEN-Carl A., of 355 Grace Church Street, Rye, N.Y. Died after a short illness, September 9, 1997. Survived by his widow the former Anne Rice, two sons Carl, III and Thomas S., a daughter Elise B. Stanbury and 4 grandchildren. Predeceased by his son Douglas E., Professor Emeritus in Med
 BRAITHWAITE-Arnold. The William F. Ryan Community Health Center is deeply saddened by the death of Arnold Braithwaite. Arnold was a true friend of the Ryan Center, giving generously of his unparalleled wisdom and guidance as a member and officer of the Board of Directors for more than 25 ye
 CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. On behalf of the Department of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery of Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Enstein College of Medicine, we note the death and acknowledge the extraordinary life of Dr. Martin Cherkasky. His leadership and contributions to Montefiore Medica
 DICKMAN-Irving R. Formerly of New York. Died Sept. 8, 1997, in Rancho Mirage, California. An accomplished man in the apparel industry. His greatest distinction was the love and affection he gave to his family and friends. Services were held at Mt. Sinai Memorial Park in Los Angeles.       
 FULLAM-Eugene. A very special friend and a very special partner. Gene was a dedicated, forceful visionary who, unfortunately, was not granted sufficient time to see the fruition of his development dreams for Orange County. To his dear wife Adele and his great sons and daughters, my deepest 
 GELLER-Arnold. Age 62, on September 8, 1997, of New City, NY. Survived by daughters, Gail Schafer of New City, Nadine McMahon of Tampa, FL., Stacey of New City, brother, Saul of New Brunswick, NJ, five grandchildren and wife, Jerry. Shiva Sunday through Tuesday at Gail Schafer's. GE
 KREMNITZER-Ernest. We mourn the passing of our colleague and extend our condolences to his family. American Fur Merchants Assn.       
 LUBLIN-Howard. On September 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley; loving father to Mary, Douglas and Candace; adored grandfather to Ben and Michael; dear brother to Sheldon and the late Ada and brother-in-law to Dorothy, Sylvia, Walter, Stanley and Diane; devoted uncle, great uncle, great g
 MICHAELSON-Stanley, Sept. 10, 1997 in Tampa, FL. Born in NYC, came to Tampa in 1980 from Long Island, NY. Survivors include his wife, Lorna; 3 sons, Richard and Peter of Portland, OR, and Jay of Tampa; 3 daughters, Nancy of Baltimore, MD, Patricia of Atlanta, GA, and Maia of NYC; a brother,
 MILLS-Estelle, 96 years young. On September 9. Cherished wife of the late Jack Mills, loving and beloved mother and mother in law of Helen, Bill, Martin, Stanley and Judy. Devoted grandmother of Peter, Dale, Patricia, Joshua, Kenneth and Mitchell and great grandmother of Rebecca. Services a
 PIAZZA-Dr. Louis R., DDS beloved Husband, Father and Grandfather, died on Monday, September 8, 1997 at Bridgeport Hospital. He was born in Bronx, NY on November 27, 1916. Louis left a legacy of caring and compassion to all he treated in his dental practice for fifty years. He was a member o
 SCHACHTER-Maurice N., passed away on August 30 at the age of 78. Principal of Lafayette Avenue Securities, a Standard & Poor's listed bond brokerage and a W.W. II veteran. Murray is survived by his wife, Arlene Schachter of Middletown, NY; three children, Rebecca Schachter of Elgin, IL., Sh
 STEINMAN-Lewis. The Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York marks with profound sorrow the passing of our very good friend and esteemed colleague on September 6, 1997. Lewis, together with his wife Joan, played pivotal roles in the early organizational and fundraising efforts to com
 WELDON-Henry L., September 8, 1997. Loving grandson of the late Louis M. Colton; son of the late Henry and Elizabeth Weldon; brother of Louise W. Floeckher of Palm Beach, FL; devoted father of Henry L. III and Alexander C., nephew Nicholas C. Cassavetes, Fort Collins, CO. Cherished friend o
 George Louis Schaefer, an award-winning producer and director who worked in television, theater and film, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76. He died after a long illness, his family said. In a career spanning 60 years, Mr. Schaefer directed nearly 100 t
 Isidore Englander, a civil liberties lawyer who was a founder of the National Lawyers' Guild, died on Sept. 4 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Englander, who was born in Lublin, Poland, and whose original first name was Itzhak, came to the United State
 James R. Phelan, an author and a dogged investigative reporter who made a crusade out of exposing the reclusive billionaire Howard R. Hughes, died on Monday at his home in Temecula, Calif. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, Janet Phelan, a daughter, said yesterday. Mr. Ph
 BAHR-Henry, Dr. Of 355 Blackstone Blvd., Providence, RI died Wednesday at Rhode Island Hospital, Providence. He was the husband of Lore (Barth) Bahr, and the father of Dr. Robert Bahr of Providence, and the late Doris Bahr. He was the grandfather of Talia Goldfarb and Danielle and Jonathan 
 BERNTSEN-Carl A., of 355 Grace Church Street, Rye, N.Y. Died after a short illness, September 9, 1997. Survived by his widow the former Anne Rice, two sons Carl, III and Thomas S., a daughter Elise B. Stanbury and 4 grandchildren. Predeceased by his son Douglas E., Professor Emeritus in Med
 CAMPI-Thomas. On September 11, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife, Christina Walker Campi and loving children Robert, Jeanine, Sally Ann, Thomas, Timothy, Timothy, Theodore and Roberta. Brother of Vincent and Robert Campi. Also survived by six beloved grandchildren. Viewing Redden Funeral H
 CONE-Thomas E., Jr., M.D., of Lincoln, Massachusetts, on September 11. Husband of Barbara (Cross). Father of Thomas E. III of Andover, MA; Dr. Mary C. Barrie of Toronto, Canada and Elizabeth C. Smallridge of Jacksonville, FL. Brother of Daniel G. and George E., both of Somers, NY, and the l
 DePALMA-Ralph Joseph. On September 10, 1997. Beloved brother of Irene. Uncle of two nieces and one nephew. Very close friend of Henrietta. DePALMA-Ralph. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of our devoted member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his f
 FULLAM-Eugene. A very special friend and a very special partner. Gene was a dedicated, forceful visionary who, unfortunately, was not granted sufficient time to see the fruition of his development dreams for Orange County. To his dear wife Adele and his great sons and daughters, my deepest 
 GELLER-Arnold. The Officers and Executive Board of SEIU, Local 2 expresses its sorrow at the passing of its beloved President and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family. Viewing will be at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam and 76th Street, New York City, on Friday, noon to 4 PM, and Saturda
 HAAS-Charles I., on September 10th, 1997. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Devoted father of Pamela and Jules. Loving father-in-law of Lenore. Cherished grandfather of David and Stephanie. Beloved by all whose lives he touched.       
 KAHN-Stanley M. Died September 7, 1997. He is survived by his wife Ethel Gruber Kahn, his daughter Holli Kahn Gersh and husband Edward Gersh, son, Robert Kahn and his wife Susan, daughter Cynthia Kahn Abrams; grandchildren, Heather Greenberg, Harrison and Ashley Kahn, and Maya Abrams. Mr. K
 MICHAELSON-Stanley, Sept. 10, 1997 in Tampa, FL. Born in NYC, came to Tampa in 1980 from Long Island, NY. Survivors include his wife, Lorna; 3 sons, Richard and Peter of Portland, OR, and Jay of Tampa; 3 daughters, Nancy of Baltimore, MD, Patricia of Atlanta, GA, and Maia of NYC; a brother,
 RAHM-Herbert. On September 11. Devoted husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Jason Rahm and Susan Holden. Beloved grandfather of Jillian, Wendy, Danielle, Jonathan and Kevin. Interment at Knollwood Park, Ridgewood, NY, September 12 at 2 P.M. RAHM - Herbert. Congregation Rodeph Sholom 
 TIPLITZ-George Lewis. On September 9, 1997. Succumbed to death after a heroic battle with pneumonia and Alzheimers at White Plains Medical Center. He leaves his wife of 50 years Doris (nee Wiederschall), one son John Evan, and two grandchildren Lee Evan and Ian David; two cherished sisters 
 Robert Pinget, a Swiss-born novelist and playwright who first won recognition as a member of the Nouveau Roman literary movement in France in the late 1950's, died in a hospital in Tours on Aug. 25 at the age of 78. The cause of death was a stroke,  French newspapers reported.      
 Camille Henry, whose frail physical stature and artistry with a stick made him one of New York's most beloved hockey players in the 1950's and 60's, died in Quebec on Thursday. He was 64. The cause of death was diabetes, The Associated Press reported. Henry had been admitted to St. 
 Carl Franz Hinshaw Jr., a self-taught chef who transformed Chalet Suzanne of Lake Wales, Fla., from a small but well-known family-run bistro into a critically acclaimed restaurant, died on Sept. 4 at his home near the restaurant just north of here. He was 75. The cause was cancer, h
 Edgar Kaplan, one of the greatest figures in the world of bridge, died on Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72. He had suffered from cancer for several years, his sister-in-law, Sylvia Kaplan, said. In a bridge career spanning half a century, Mr. 
 Edward Wyllis Scripps, a newspaper executive and philanthropist who built a publishing company independent of his family's newspaper empire, died on Sept. 4 at his farm in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88. Mr. Scripps was the chairman and president of the Scripps League Newspapers fro
 BRODY-Dr. Stanley (Steve) J., on Sept. 11, 1997 in La Jolla, CA. He was 79. Dr. Brody was Prof. Emeritus of Rehabilitation Medicine in Psychiatry, Univ. of Pennsylvania and of the Wharton School of Business. He authored first texts on rehabilitation and the aged. Among his awards, Dr. Brody
 BUEHLER-Seymour J. On September 11, 1997. Devoted and beloved husband of Joan. Adoring and proud father of Robert and Susan Buehler. Cherished brother of Joan and Howard Eisenstein. Dear uncle of Susan and Jon Kerz, and Beth and Jim Eisenstein. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM. Frank E. Campbell, 1
 EYER-James A. Age 64 years, on Friday, September 12, 1997. Husband of Patricia. He was reporter for NBC and ABC news in NYC retiring from NBC in 1988.       
 FISH-Eli. We note with sorrow the passing of a highly respected professsional. As Director of the Hospital's Pharmacy for more than thirty years, he presided over a department that evolved to serve the needs of North Shore as it grew in size and complexity. He was a good friend to many and 
 HELSEL-Milton J., M.D. On September 12, 1997 in Miami, FL. Beloved husband for over fiftyeight years of Selma (Geshwind). Loving father of Eileen Swartz and Meryl (Robert) Meltzer. Adored grandfather of Reesa (Steven) Fischer, Jeffrey (Shayna) Swartz, Neal and Sara Meltzer. Cherished great 
 LEVITT-David. After a courageous stuggle for health, beloved husband for 60 years of Norma Uttal Levitt and loving father of Sally Steinberg, Nancy Hoffman and Andrew Levitt. Devoted grandfather to Noah M. and Jonah A. Steinberg, Rebecca HoffmanGreenwald, Mia and Elizabeth Levitt. Also mour
 ZUCKERMAN-Morris. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourns the passing of Morris Zuckerman, beloved father of Joseph D. Zuckerman, Chairman of the Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery of the Hospital for Joint Dise
 Ronald M. Rosenfeld, an important figure in the ''creative revolution'' that swept the advertising industry in the 1960's and 1970's, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital from complications of a stroke he suffered in 1991. He was 65. Mr. Rosenfeld was born in Baltimore, where he s
 Jerry C. Jacobs, a pediatrician and leading authority on rheumatoid arthritis in children, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. He was 66 and also had a home in Riverdale, the Bronx. The cause was cancer, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center said. Dr. Jacob
 Milton Rubincam, a dogged and inspired researcher who spent the better part of his life swinging through family trees, sometimes finding plums, sometimes snapping off favorite branches, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. Mr. Rubincam, who lived in Hyattsville, Md., was 88 
 BENDERSKY - Max, M.D., F.A.C.C.P. Age 80 of Tamarac, Florida, formerly of Brightwaters, L.I. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Fryburg). Cherished father of Beatrice of Tamarac, FL., Dr. Ruby of Albuquerque, N.M., and Sarah of Portland, OR. Devoted grandfather of Kim and Ann, son of the late 
 BRODY-Dr. Stanley (Steve) J., on Sept. 11, 1997 in La Jolla, CA. He was 79. Dr. Brody was Prof. Emeritus of Rehabilitation Medicine in Psychiatry, Univ. of Pennsylvania and of the Wharton School of Business. He authored first texts on rehabilitation and the aged. Among his awards, Dr. Brody
 BUEHLER-Seymour J. On September 11, 1997. Devoted and beloved husband of Joan. Adoring and proud father of Robert and Susan Buehler. Cherished brother of Joan and Howard Eisenstein. Dear uncle of Susan and Jon Kerz, and Beth and Jim Eisenstein. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM. Frank E. Campbell, 1
 CARROLLTON-John J. Of Manhahattan. On August 30, 1997. Sadly missed by Lois, brother William (Doreen) and their children William, Steve, John, James and Doreen Moog. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in his memory to Cancer Care, 1180 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036. 
 CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, esteemed colleague and member of the Medical Advisory Board of the Hadassah Medical Organization. His guidance, compassion and wise counsel will be sadly missed. May his memory be for a bl
 EDELSTEIN-Louis. Uncle of Joann Thier, Amy Thier and Alex Martin. He is also survived by his devoted sister-in-law, Sonya Edelstein; the wife of his dear late brother, Samuel Edelstein. Mr. Edelstein was a well known philanthropist. Graveside services were held on September 11th in Philadel
 EYER-James A. Age 64 years, on Friday, September 12, 1997. Husband of Patricia. He was reporter for NBC and ABC news in NYC retiring from NBC in 1988.       
 FISH-Eli. We note with sorrow the passing of a highly respected professsional. As Director of the Hospital's Pharmacy for more than thirty years, he presided over a department that evolved to serve the needs of North Shore as it grew in size and complexity. He was a good friend to many and 
 HELSEL-Milton J., M.D. On September 12, 1997 in Miami, FL. Beloved husband for over fiftyeight years of Selma (Geshwind). Loving father of Eileen Swartz and Meryl (Robert) Meltzer. Adored grandfather of Reesa (Steven) Fischer, Jeffrey (Shayna) Swartz, Neal and Sara Meltzer. Cherished great 
 RAHM-Herbert. The Brotherhood of Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of our dear friend Herbert Rahm. Herb was a devoted member of the Brotherhood, Past Brotherhood President and Honorary Brotherhood President for life. He devoted himself to interfaith understanding as Chair of Je
 SCHWARTZ-Louis. On Sept 11, 1997, at his retirement home in Taos, NM. Former resident of Manhasset, NY. Former owner of Port Washington Window Cleaning Corp. Beloved father of M. Norman (Heather) of Clarksville, MD, S. Robert (Ann) of Valparaiso, IN, Kenneth J. of Tres Piedras, NM, and Yett
 STUBER-Florian, died September 11, 1997, of complications due to AIDS. Columbia B.A. and Ph.D. Professor at F.I.T., scholar, playwright, devoted teacher. Mourned by many friends in NYC. Survived by parents, Mr. and Mrs. Florian Stuber, of Buffalo, two brothers and a sister, nieces and nephe
 SURBECK-L. Homer. A retired litigation partner in Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, died on September 5th, at his home in Atherton, California. He was 94. Mr. Surbeck was born October 8, 1902, in Jasper, Minnesota. He graduated first in his class from Yale Law School in 1927 and was selected to be
 WILCOX-John M., former banker, died on September 6th, 1997, in Valley Hospital, Ridgewood, New Jersey, at age ninety-six. He was born in New York City in 1901 and lived in Tenafly, New Jersey. Forty years of his business career were spent with the Marine Midland Banking Group. In 1928, he j
 ZUCKERMAN-Morris. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourns the passing of Morris Zuckerman, beloved father of Joseph D. Zuckerman, Chairman of the Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery of the Hospital for Joint Dise
 FLEDELL-Joseph. You can't stop the rain from raining. You can't quarrel with fate. For everything there's a season. A time to be born, a time to live, and a time to die. There is nothing unusual about a funeral or an unveiling, except that this time it's yours, Sweetheart. I console myself 
 Dr. Roger Olaf Egeberg, a blunt  Democrat who criticized the Nixon Administration while he was its chief health officer, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Olaf. Before Dr. Egeberg was named to the health post by Presi
 Eddie O'Toole, the United States national champion in the 10,000-meter run from 1946 to 1948, died last Friday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his son Kevin said. O'Toole, who graduated from Manhattan College, competed in 
 Edward Artinian, the founder and publisher of Chatham House Publishers, died on Sept. 9 at his home in Chatham, N.J. He was 61. The cause of death was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the publishing company said. Mr. Artinian founded Chatham, which specializes in political s
 George W. Crockett Jr., a civil rights warrior who went over the top so often in the battle for racial justice that he earned a decade of bemused retirement in Congress, died on Sept. 7 at a hospice near his home in Washington. He was 88 and had represented a Detroit district in the House o
 Dr. Giovanni Di Chiro, chief of neuroimaging at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, died on Aug. 27 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Barbara. Dr. Di Chiro was a pioneer in imaging the central nervous system
 John Marshall Leddy, a former senior official of the State and Treasury Departments whose Government career was interrupted by a confrontation with Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1953, died on Aug. 31 at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 83. Mr. Leddy retired from the State Dep
 HELSEL-Milton. A very special, sweet, kind man has died. We will remember his softness and his caring for all people. He will be missed by all who knew him. Our thoughts are with his wife Selma, his children Meryl and Bob Meltzer, and Eileen Swartz, his grandchildren Neal Meltzer and Sara M
 McCORMICK-Thomas E., on September 13, 1997, of Port Washington, NY. Beloved husband of 60 years of Marian. Loving father of Brian and Mark. Also mourned by daughters-in-law Susan and Patricia. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM
 QUALEY - Thomas. Renowned floral designer. Owner of Kathleen Graham Flowers in New York with Cynthia; greatly respected in his field. Formerly of Bronx, NY. Died on September 12, 1997, in Boca Raton, FL. Cherished husband of the late Cynthia (nee Zimmerman), dear brother-in-law and adored u
 RIVKIND-Jules, M.D., on September 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Robin Rivkind, Dore Kottler, and Shari Rivkind Weil. Doting grandfather of six. Whose warmth and compassion was felt by not only all his patients, but by everyone who loved him so. Private services.      
 SIMON-Max M., on September 13 in Harrison, NY. Beloved husband for over 58 years of Rose. Loving father of David and Donna Simon and Lois and Robert Reich. Adored grandfather of Randi and Daniel Reich and Jared and Dana Simon. Dear brother of Philip and Percy Simon, and Bea Bloom. S
 STUBER-Florian. A founding member of The Dickens Reading Group, for 26 years he graced us with his intelligence, erudition, humor, kindness, courteousness and unfailing generosity of spirit. He was a faithful friend and dear companion. His memory will be a blessing to us. Olivia Altschuler,
 SUSSMAN-Murray, of Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Miriam. Cherished father of Alan and Leonard. Devoted brother of Jessie Lynn. Adored grandfather of Emily, Julie and Andrew. He was a model of integrity and generosity for his family and all who met him in his long, productive, and carin
 TORRES-Roberto. Of Queens, NY most of his life, died August 29, 1997 at Skyview Rehabilitation and Nursing Home in Wallingford, CT. He was the beloved husband of Nery Yero Torres and is survived by his children, Robert Torres, Jr., Hector Torres, Walter Torres, Edward Quintela, Elena Dorsey
 Aron Broches, who was general counsel of the World Bank for 20 years until he retired in 1979, died on Sept. 9 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington after a brief illness, his son, Paul, said yesterday. He was 83. Mr. Broches, who was known as Ronnie, graduated from the Un
 After William R. Ferris left a teaching position at Yale University 18 years ago to become founding director of the University of Mississippi's Center for the Study of Southern Culture, he wandered through dormitory hallways with his Gibson guitar, playing the blues for any student he thoug
 BRODY-Stanley J. We mourn the loss of a pre-eminent leader in the fields of gerontology, rehabilitation and public health and a valuable advisor to The Lighthouse. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Elaine and his children and grandchildren. Barbara Silverstone Amy Horowitz Cynthia Stue
 CHAPMAN-William Haven, of New Canaan, CT., died at home on August 27, 1997 after a long illness. Willy was 4 years old. His death was attributed to cardiac arrest. Willy was born on August 29, 1992, son of John William Haven Chapman and Jane Scanlan Chapman. Surviving, in addition to his pa
 CORBIN-Edwin I., M.D., beloved husband of Lenore, loving father of David and wife Bobbi, dedicated grandfather of Leah, Rachel and Jake, on September 13, 1997. CORBIN-Edwin I. The Officers and Members of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York are saddened by the death of their e
 EDELSTEIN-Louis. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Louis Edelstein of Atlantic City, NJ. He was a legendary supporter of the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel who modestly avoided any public recogniti
 FELDMAN-S. Newton. Passed away Friday evening, Sept. 12 after a long illness, bravely suffered. Son of Sam Feldman and Blanche Passerman, late of Phila, Penn. Newton was a veteran of W.W. II, and retired as a Lt. Commander of the U.S. Naval Reserve. He was a devoted son, uncle, and mentor t
 GOLDIN-Isaac. Beloved husband of Pearl. Devoted father of Shmuel and Barbara, Rita and Yerachmiel Fuchs, Chana and Avrohom Garfinkel. Cherished grandfather of 21 grandchildren, he will be sorely and deeply missed. Services will be held today, 10:00 am, I.J. Morris, Inc, Hemptead, L.I.      
 HUNT-Bro. Gregory, FSC. Age 71. Assistant to the President of Manhattan College for Alumni Affairs. Devoted son of the late Patrick and May Regan Hunt. Beloved brother of Marion Cahill and the late Thomas Hunt. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. The wake will be held in the Rotunda, 
 JOSEPH-Frank. On Sept. 12, 1997, patriarch of the family. Beloved husband of Klara, devoted father of John, adored father-in-law of Debbie, cherised zayde of Rebecca, Nina and Max, loving brother of Moshe, David, Ristu, and Jack. His unique wit, charm and warmth will be sorely missed by a l
 KAPLAN-Mary R. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Honorary President, Warren Alpert and his family on the loss of his beloved sister. May the memory of this loving woman remain always as a blessing. Richard Thaler, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 MILLER-Hasbrouck Bailey, age 74, of New Vernon, N.J., died at home on September 14, 1997. He was comfortable and surrounded by his family. His keen sense of humor and wit, generous spirit and guiding light touched all who new him. He is survived by his loving wife, Jody & his adoring childr
 MITCHELL-Arthur. 85, September 10, 1997, in New York City. Former author and professor of economics. Survivors include Bess Hecht Mitchell, his wife for 38 years, his nephew Robert Belenky and cousin Joseph Machlis.       
 PETERS-Philip Homer, 81, died suddenly at his home on August 10, 1997. The former EVP of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co was committed to the greater Boston community and to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Memorial services will be held Sunday, September 21, 1997 at 2 PM at
 SIMON - Max. The honorary Trustees of the Jewish Community Center of Harrison extend their heartfelt sympathy to the Simon family for so great a loss. Max was a founder, past president and honorary trustee. His commitment to our synagogue was exemplary. Irving N. Claremon Honorary Chairman 
 SUSSMAN-Murray. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with sorrow the passing of our long time member, Murray Sussman. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Miriam, their sons, Alan and Leonard, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, President       
 TOBACK-Dr. Charles. On September 11, 1997, of pancreas cancer in New York City. A wonderful guy survived by a loving family who will miss him. TOBACK-Charles. Eminent Psychologist and sparkling wit passed away Friday September 12, 1997. Inspiration to his colleagues at Downstate Med
 WALLER-Ronald R. All of us at Today Video are deeply saddened at the loss of our colleague and friend of 15 years. Ronald Waller, Chief Engineer & Vice President, passed away Friday morning. We are grateful for the privilege of having been associated with him. A trust fund for his children 
 Sheik Abdullah al-TarikiSheik Abdullah al-Tariki, Saudi Arabia's first oil minister and a founder of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, died on Sept. 7 at the age of 80. His death was announced Wednesday by the Saudi Embassy in Cairo, which said that Sheik Tariki had
 Will Hare, a veteran character actor and a founding member of the Actors Studio, died on Aug. 31 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Weehawken, N.J. He died of a heart attack after collapsing onstage during a rehearsal at the Actors Studio, said his agent, Jer
 The Rev. Abraham K. Akaka, who as Hawaii's most widely known clergyman led the historic Kawaiahao Church in Honolulu for three decades, died on Sept. 10 in Honolulu. He was 80 years old. Mr. Akaka, the brother of Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, died at Queen's Medical C
 BENDEL-Henri. September 15, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of John and his wife Diana. A celebration of his life will be held on Saturday, September 20 at 1:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 BOVERMAN-Sam, 86, Sept. 15. Devoted father of Jeffery. Fatherin-law of Christina and grandfather of Kale, Max and Michelle Boverman and Lisa Hantverk and Emily Solomon and great grandfather of four. Dear companion of Harriet Falk. Graveside service Thurs, 1 PM, Cedar Park Cemetery. Friends 
 FRIEDMAN-Milton, age ninetythree, real estate lawyer, scholar and author, September 16, at home, suddenly. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Guiterman Friedman, loving father of Alan, father-in-law of Carolyn and devoted grandfather of Wendy, Kathryn and Amy. Interment will be private. A 
 HUNT-Bro. Gregory, FSC. Age 71. Assistant to the President of Manhattan College for Alumni Affairs. Devoted son of the late Patrick and May Regan Hunt. Beloved brother of Marion Cahill and the late Thomas Hunt. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. The wake will be held in the Rotunda, 
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. Died peacefully September 16, 1997 on Martha's Vineyard, Ma., in his 90th year. Survived by his wife Virginia Couper Johnson; father of Dudley Disosway Johnson, Cazenovia, NY, Kathleen Wu, Pontevedra, Florida, Norman Platt Johnson, Newport, R.I. Ridgely Couper Johnson
 KNIGHT-William T. III, of Saddle River, NJ, died September 16, 1997, at age 78, after a lengthy illness. Born in Savannah, GA., Mr. Knight graduated from the University of Georgia with a B.S. degree in Pharmacy. He served in the United States Navy during World War II and during the Korean c
 REYTAN-Yehuda. The Jewish Center mourns the tragic passing of the father of our devoted member Mrs. Meira Tugendhaft. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 RUSSO-Paul, on September 15, 1997. Owner of Regina Footwear, Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of the late Julia (Colozzo). Devoted father of Rosemary Levin. Dear grandfather of David. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, Wednesday and Thursday 3-5 and 
 SELMECZI - Frederick (Fritz). Loving husband of Marussi. Loving brother inlaw of Nadia Jaglom. Loving uncle of Nellie Gardner and Regina Wachter. Funeral services at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue, Wednesday, 17 September noon. SELMECZI - Frederick (Fritz). Good old
 SHAPIRO-Edward. On September 16th, 1997. Born in New York City on April 18th, 1911. Edward was President of Diane Button Co., Manhattan, which he founded over 65 years ago. Edward resided in Bronxville, New York and Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by his loving wife of 59 years, Irene and th
 ZION-Menahem. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Abe Zion on the loss of his brother Menahem. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 WOLFSON-Sir Isaac. On your 100th birthday today, the entire family, sisters Rose, Bebe, Dolly, brother-in-law Robert, nephews, nieces, grand & great grand nephews and nieces, offer your son Lord Leonard, Lady Estelle Wolfson, his daughters and grandchildren our gratitude for having our bloo
 Paul W. Brechler, the youngest athletic director in Big Ten history and later the first commissioner of the Western Athletic Conference, died last Saturday at his home in Denver. He was 86 years old. In 1947, when he was 37, Brechler was named athletic director at the University of 
 William N. Oatis, an Associated Press correspondent in Prague whose name entered cold war history when the Czechoslovak Communist Government forced him to confess falsely to espionage and held him prisoner from 1951 to 1953, died yesterday in Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was
 BENDEL-Henri. September 15, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of John and his wife Diana. A celebration of his life will be held on Saturday, September 20 at 1:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 BOVERMAN-Sam, 86, Sept. 15. Devoted father of Jeffery. Fatherin-law of Christina and grandfather of Kale, Max and Michelle Boverman and Lisa Hantverk and Emily Solomon and great grandfather of four. Survived by the mother of his children and grandchildren Muriel Boverman. Dear companion of 
 BRENNER-Max. Age 94 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Beloved husband of Ilse Brenner. Loving father of Joan Toder of Scarsdale, New York. Also survived by his twin brother Hans Brenner of Fort Lauderdale. Services to be held at Schwartz Funeral Home, 76th Road and Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills
 CHEW-Robert Preston, formerly of Greenwich, Conn., died of cancer at his home in Charlottesville, VA., September 15, 1997. Bob Chew graduated from Princeton University in 1942, served as Field Artillery Captain in the Philippines where he earned the Silver Star for ''action behind the Japan
 COHEN-Max G., of Long Beach, NY, on September 16, 1997, age 89. Beloved husband of the late Joan Cohen. Loving father of Steven Cohen, Jayne Cohen and Howard Spiegler, and Sami Schindelheim (Joseph). Cherished grandfather of Robert Cohen, Alexandra Cohen-Spiegler, and Jake, Arielle, Ricky, 
 DEUTSCH-Ira A. On Sept. 16, 1997, beloved husband of Susan, dear son of Frieda, loving father of Jesse and Elena and father-in-law of Alison, adoring grandfather of Hannah. Service today 12 noon, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. DEUTSCH-Ira. With deep sorrow w
 FRIED-Sol. On September 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Bernice. Loving father of Bonnie, Roger & Lori. Dear grandfather of Justin and his wife Rondi. Service Friday, 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 HEFTLER-Harold. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Harold Heftler, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rebecca, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Adler, President       
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. Died peacefully September 16, 1997 on Martha's Vineyard, Ma., in his 90th year. Survived by his wife Virginia Couper Johnson; father of Dudley Disosway Johnson, Cazenovia, NY, Kathleen Wu, Pontevedra, Florida, Norman Platt Johnson, Newport, R.I. Ridgely Couper Johnson
 JOYCE-Timothy, Ph.D. The officers and employees of Roper Starch Worldwide mourn the passing of our Vice-Chairman, Dr. Timothy Joyce on Saturday, September 13. He was a true pioneer in the media/market research field and we will long remember his unparalleled wit, keen intelligence and loyal
 ROTH-Arthur Thomas, ninetyone, passed away peacefully on Wednesday, September 17, at his home of sixty years in Rockville Centre, New York. He will long be remembered in American banking circles for the extraordinary innovations he successfully brought to commercial banking as CEO of the Fr
 SCHIFF-Tibor. Suddenly in Vancouver, Saturday, September 13, 1997. Dearly beloved husband of Marilyn (Regenstreif-Teitelbaum). Adored stepfather of Fern (George Wachter), Gina (Harry Zelnick), and Paul Teitelbaum. Cherished grandfather of Jackie, Brahm, Jennifer and Sharon. Dear son-in-law 
 WYATT-Morris. Family Focus Adoption Services mourns the passing of our friend and Board member, Morris (Chuck) Wyatt. Chuck was a quiet and thoughtful man who lived a life of great courage. He was an example to all of us and we will miss him. Our sympathy goes to Sara and the entire Wyatt a
 HICKEY-William. Family, Friends & Colleagues will gather to remember and celebrate his life. The Majestic Theatre 247 W 44 St. Friday, September 19th at 2 P.M.       
 Red Skelton, a master of mime and clowning whose gentle humor captivated generations of Americans, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. In the early 1940's, Mr. Skelton's radio comedy show rivaled such formidable competitors as Bob Hope and Fibber McGee a
 Daniel Meenan, a television and radio news reporter whose gravel-voiced delivery was known to nearly every cabby in New York City for three decades, died at New York University Medical Center on Monday. He was 75 and had spent most of his time on Shelter Island since his retirement in 1988.
 Georges Guetary, the French singing star best known to American audiences as Gene Kelly's rival for the affections of Leslie Caron in the Oscar-winning 1951 film ''An American in Paris,'' died on Saturday in a clinic in Mougins on the French Riviera. Mr. Guetary, who lived in Cannes, was 82
 BENDEL-Henri. September 15, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Loving father of John and his wife Diana. A celebration of his life will be held on Saturday, September 20 at 1:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 BRETT-Richard D. (Dick). A man made out of words was silenced on September 17th after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Survived by loving life partner Gary Jacobson, beloved brother Ronald and his family, cherished cousins, and many dear friends. Memorial to be held at his former r
 CONARD-William C., ''Bill''. 41, of Manhattan on September 13, 1997. Beloved partner of Arthur Fama of Manhattan and Ulster Park, NY, loving son of Thelma Conard of London, OH and adored brother of Patricia, Susan, Linda and Diana all of Ohio. Services and burial were held in Ohio on Wednes
 FRIED-Sol. On September 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Bernice. Loving father of Bonnie, Roger & Lori. Dear grandfather of Justin and his wife Rondi. Service Friday, 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 JOHNSON-Norman Dudley. Died peacefully September 16, 1997 on Martha's Vineyard, Ma., in his 90th year. Survived by his wife Virginia Couper Johnson; father of Dudley Disosway Johnson, Cazenovia, NY, Kathleen Wu, Pontevedra, Florida, Norman Platt Johnson, Newport, R.I. Ridgely Couper Johnson
 JOYCE-Dr. Timothy. Founder and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mediamark Research Inc. died on Saturday, September 13. Dr. Joyce was internationally prominent in media and market research for nearly four decades. He developed Target Group Index, a survey system for measuring 
 KAHAN-Joshua Harrison. On September 17, 1997, of Voorhees, NJ. ''Our Joshy Bear.'' Born November 5, 1994, his smile is indelible in all of our hearts. He is truly a treasured gift to all of us. Joshy wanted to be a fireman. When one thinks of Joshy we think of his infectious, magical smile,
 REYNOLDS - Warren (Bud). Larchmont resident, died at home on September 17 at age 81. Retired sales representative of 35 years for the Manhattan and Hathaway Shirt Companies of Manhattan. He was born December 11, 1915 to Blanche Hollis and Thomas F. Reynolds, Sr. former Westchester County Sh
 ROTH-Arthur Thomas, ninetyone, passed away peacefully on Wednesday, September 17, at his home of sixty years in Rockville Centre, New York. He will long be remembered in American banking circles for the extraordinary innovations he successfully brought to commercial banking as CEO of the Fr
 SPIEGEL-Ira. The colleagues and friends of Dr. Alan Spiegel in the Departments of Medicine and Cardiology at the New York University Medical Center express heartfelt condolences to Dr. Spiegel and his family upon the death of his father, Ira. SPIEGEL-Ira. Dr. Kenneth Krauss and fami
 ROSNER-Joseph. Family and friends will gather in his memory at the Vivian Horan Gallery, 35 East 67th St., 2nd Floor, at 6 PM, Tuesday, September 23.       
 Eugene Lehner, a violinist in the Boston Symphony Orchestra for 43 years and the violist in the Kolisch Quartet in the 1920's and 30's, died on Sept. 13 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 91. Mr. Lehner was born in Hungary in 1906, and performed as a self-taught violinist from the 
 John C. Liebeskind, a leading researcher in the study of pain and its relation to health, died on Sept. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived here. The cause was cancer, according to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was a professor of psychology and anesthesiolo
 CERABONA-Mario, M.D., passed away peacefully at Westchester Medical Center on September 19, 1997. Dr. Cerabona came to the U.S. from Naples, Italy in 1960 and practiced internal medicine for over 20 years serving Queens and Brooklyn. He is survived by his loving wife Caroline (Garofano) and
 SMITH-H. Hanford, Jr., died suddenly on Sept. 16, 1997 at his home on Nantucket, MA. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane Cowles Smith, his devoted mother, Elizabeth E. Smith, his daughter, Lisa S. Cashin, his sons, H. Brooks Smith and H. Hanford Smith, III, and 5 grandchildren. A memor
 KEMPNER-Ivan. 18 ELUL 5752. Loved, missed, remembered by his wife Arline and daughters Robbi, Juli and Lani.       
 Timothy Joyce, a pioneer in the field of magazine readership research, died on Sept. 13 in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Mr. Joyce had long been suffering from hepatitis, said Alain Tessier, a friend and business colleague. Mr. Joyce was born, raised and educated in Britai
 Arthur T. Roth, a driving force in the consumer banking business and in the development of Long Island,  died Wednesday at his home in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 91. Mr. Roth built the Franklin National Bank from a tiny branch in Franklin Square on Long Island into what became th
 BERKOWITZ-Robert H. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Thursday, September 18, 1997. He will be missed. Services will be held Sunday, September 21, 10AM at Apter Funeral Parlor in Maplewood, NJ. Barry Berger,
 BURROUGHS-Malcolm S. ''Buzz.'' At home on Chipmunk Farm, Topsfield, MA, on September 16, at age 98. Husband of the recently deceased Lucille ''Pat.'' Son of the late Fred E. and Jennie E. (Short). Senior V.P., Dexter Folder, V.P. Miehle-Goss-Dexter (Rockwell International). Accepted at MIT 
 FRIED-Sol. Living is what he loved-Loving is what he got-No complaining for him-He traveled the optimistic highway of lifeTaking us along with him. It was a great trip for those-Who really knew him!       
 HAMMOCK-Mel, 49, interior designer, died of cancer, August 29 at his home in NYC. Born and raised in Atlanta, GA., Mel was the son of Charles E. and Betty Hammock. Survived by his mother, brothers Alan & Andy Hammock, sister and brother-in-law Nancy and Harry Stewart, nieces Kim Arant and L
 LENNON-Rev. Joseph L. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired Air Force chaplain on September 19. Reposing at Boyd-Caratozzolo Funeral Home, 1785 Deer Park Avenue, Deer Park, Long Island, Sunday, September 21, from 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM. Funeral mass in SS. Cyril and Methodiu
 McCALL-Marsh, M.D. Cardiologist, Medical Director of Beekman Downtown Hospital, NYC 1945-1965, Medical Consultant for the City of New York Fire Department 1975-1997, Colonel US Army Medical Corp 1942-1945. Died on September 19, 1997. Born in Tazewell, VA, December 16, 1903. Husband of the l
 NISENSON-Arnold, M.D. On September 19, 1997. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and dedicated Podiatrist. May Mozart play in heaven for him. Shiva at home.       
 PAKULA-Peter F. 5/20/39-9/15/97. Of Amsterdam, The Netherlands, formerly of New York City. Adoring and adored husband of Marlies Tander, cherished and devoted son of the late Ruth and Leonard, loving and beloved brother of Judy. Cousin, nephew and friend to many. Died suddenly and peacefull
 SKLANSKY-Morris Aaron, M.D., of Evanston, IL, beloved husband of Alice Sklansky for 51 years, devoted father of Laura, Paul and Andrew Sklansky and his wife, Susan Sklansky, grandfather of Maxwell Sklansky, fond uncle and friends of many. Associated with the Chicago Institute for Psychoanal
 YARETT-Jerome W., D.D.S. Devoted and loving husband of Eva. Wonderful father of Deborah and Jordan. Beloved grandfather of Joshua, Gabriel, Ian and Roger. Father-in-law of Richard and Susan. Services Sunday, 2 PM, at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, opposi
 LOIS-Harry Joseph. 9/5/58-9/21/78. Our love for him deepens; our sadness remains unbearable. Rosemary, Luke & George Lois LOIS-Harry Joseph. 9/5/58-9/21/78. Our love for him deepens; our sadness remains unbearable. Rosemary, Luke and George Lois       
 Stanley N. Garfinkel, a historian and documentary film producer, died on Monday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 67 and lived in Cleveland. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, where Mr. Garfinkel taught for more than 30
 George Champion, a former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 93. Mr. Champion joined the Chase National Bank in New York as a second vice president in 1933, and he remained with the company until he retired in 1969. He was pr
 Henri Bendel, the founder of Belgian Shoes and a former president of the fabled Manhattan specialty store founded by his uncle in 1909, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Bendel assumed the presidency of the store in 1935 after the death of his uncle, for whom h
 Jimmy Witherspoon, one of the great postwar blues singers and a figure who naturally bridged the worlds of blues and jazz, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. He died in his sleep, said Michael James, his booking agent. Mr. Witherspoon (nicknamed Spoon) w
 The Rev. Dr. John Seldon Whale, a Congregational historian and theologian who taught, lectured and preached in New York, New Jersey and elsewhere in the United States and his native Britain, died last Wednesday after moving to a nursing home in Edinburgh. He was 100 and had lived in southwe
 GOLDMUNTZ-Lawrence Allen. On Friday, September 19, 1997, of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Barbara Goldmuntz. Devoted father of Ellen Goldmuntz of Washington, DC, Jane (Randall) Grady of St. Louis, MO, and Elisabeth Goldmuntz (Frederic G. Barr) of Philadelphia, PA. Loving brother of Jan
 PILLERSDORF-Herbert K. The family of Herbert K. Pillersdorf, distinguished attorney and former small claims court arbitrator, mourns his peaceful passing on September 20, 1997, the day of his 78th birthday. He is survived by his wife Adele, his children Mr. and Mrs. Gary Pillersdorf, Dr. an
 SMITH-H. Hanford, Jr. died suddenly on Sept. 16, 1997 at his home on Nantucket, MA. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane Cowles Smith, his devoted mother, Elizabeth E. Smith, his daughter, Lisa S. Cashin, his sons, H. Brooks Smith and H. Hanford Smith, III, and five grandchildren. A mem
 SMITH-Michael J., Jr. On 9/20/97, of Pelham Manor. Beloved husband of Josephine Killilea Smith. Devoted father of Claire Mary Smith. Brother of Margaret Gansert, Thomas Smith, Catherine Valente, Ann Marie Gremler, Mary Sullivan and Eileen Burdick. Loving brother-in-law, uncle and friend to 
 Samuel Lurie, a veteran dance and music publicity agent, died on Sept. 11 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in West Hollywood. Mr. Lurie died after a brief illness, said Stanley Kaminsky, his longtime business associate and companion of 43 years. M
 Stanley Grover, a longtime supporting player on Broadway and in numerous touring musicals who also acted in films and on television, died on Aug. 24 at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 71. Early in his career, Mr. Grover, who was born in Woodstock, 
 Walter A. Spiro, the chairman of Earle Palmer Brown/Philadelphia, an advertising agency, died on Tuesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, said John Moscatelli, a senior vice president and associate general manager at the agency. Mr. Spir
 Eddie Sawyer, who never played in the major leagues but managed the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team to the franchise's first National League pennant in 35 years, died yesterday in Phoenixville, Pa., after a brief illness. Sawyer, who lived in Valley Forge, Pa., was 87. A 
 BOAZ-Richard S. On Sept 21, 1997. Beloved father of Leslie Boaz and Melinda Boaz Kopp. Cherished father-in-law of Martin Kopp. Devoted grandfather of Jesse, Corey and Kelsey Kopp. Loving son of the late Peggy and Alfred Boaz. Adored brother of the late Melvin Boaz. Funeral service today, 10
 CHEEVER-Francis Sargent, M.D., formerly of Wellesley, Mass., and Pittsburgh, Pa., died in Westwood, Mass., at age 88 on September 19, 1997. He was Vice Chancellor, Schools of the Health Professions, at the University of Pittsburgh, 1967-74; Dean of the School of Medicine, 1958-69; and Profe
 CONNELLY-Felix Aloysius III, age 88, of Manhattan, NY, on September 22, 1997. Husband of Aline (Clapp) Connelly and the late Kathleen (Fay) Connelly. Father of Patricia M. Wilson. Mass of Christian Burial on Wednesday 10 AM at St. Joseph's Church, Croton Falls, NY. Burial will be Private. C
 EINHORN-Herbert Arthur. On September 19, 1997. Devoted father of Eric and Kirsten Einhorn and Diane and Bill Colish. Loving grandfather of Katrina, Peter, Daniel and Stefanie. A memorial service will be held October 19 at 2 PM at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester, Rye, NY. Specifics can 
 FORST-Ruth. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our beloved member Steven Littwin on the loss of his beloved sister Ruth. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President FORST
 GOLDMUNTZ-Lawrence. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Lawrence Goldmuntz, noted scientist and public policy consultant, who served AJC in numerous distinguished capacities for many years, including as president of our Washin
 GOTTLIEB-Jack. On September 22nd at age 83 of Kings Point, LI, after a lengthy illness. Loving husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. We will all miss his detailed recaps of his winning hands and biggest exactas. From the starting gate to the finish line, he was always the favo
 GUCCIONE - Kathryn Keeton You so bravely explored new frontiers. We admire your strength, courage, vision and dedication to so many worthy causes. Our deepest condolences to our friend, Bob Guccione, on the loss of his partner in life. Stephanie and Jay Newman       
 HINMAN-George L., of Pennsylvania Avenue, Town of Binghamton, died Sunday morning, September 21, 1997, at his home. He was born in Binghamton, N.Y., on September 25, 1905, the son of Harvey DeForest Hinman and Phebe Brown Hinman. He was predeceased by his wife, Barbara Davidge Hinman and hi
 KOSLOW-David. Passed away peacefully on September 20, 1997. David is survived by ''Sammye,'' his loving wife of 54 years; his devoted children Ron, Bob (Tracy), Ken, Judy (Stefan) Zweig. He is the adored ''Poppa'' of Jenna. He will also be missed by his sister, sister-in-law, his many niece
 LEIBERMAN-Tilla. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Nathan Zucker on loss of his beloved sister Tilla. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 McDERMOTT-Maurice M. of Oceanside, N.Y. on September 21, 1997. Former Assistant US Attorney, SDNY and former Assistant Chief of the Criminal Division. Beloved husband of Claire P. (Nee Postiglione). Loving and devoted father of Glen (Gail) and Christopher. Reposing at Macken Mortuary, Inc.,
 OVERMAN - William Peter. Adored and beloved husband of Jane Leavy Overman. Adored and loving father of Jennifer, David and Jonathan Blinken. Pop Pop to Alegra, Emma and Benjamin. Beloved brother to Nancy Sher and friend to so many. The family will receive friends Tuesday September 23 at Fra
 ROSEMAN-Jack. The National Offices of EMUNAH of America mourn the passing of the beloved husband of our honorary National President, Betty Roseman. Jack Roseman was a staunch and generous friend of EMUNAH who earned the respect of everyone who knew him. We express our heartfelt condolences 
 SAMMAN-Ayman. With deep sorrow we the mourn passing of our friend Ayman in Miami Beach, FL on Sunday, September 14, 1997. We all feel privileged to have known him. He will live forever in our hearts. Our sincere sympathy to his mother, Berlant, and all his family. Funeral arrangements were 
 SHEA-Thomas G. The Board and staff of Ballet Hispanico note with profound sorrow the death of our longtime friend and board member emeritus. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife and family. Jody Gottfried Arnhold, Chairman Thomas W. Ostrander, President Dhuanne Tansill, Chairman Eme
 STOCK-Leonard Plaut. Of Pompano Beach, Florida on September 22nd. Beloved husband of Ruth (Gunzburger). Loving father of Ellen, John and his wife Janet. Devoted grandfather of Alissa and Debbie. Visiting hours at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street on Wednesday, September 24th 5:30PM to 
 TRAINA-Nicholas John Steel-in San Francisco, September 20, 1997, after a longtime struggle with a lifetime illness and valiant fight to the end, of an accidental overdose. Son of Danielle Steel Traina and John A Traina, Jr., of San Francisco. Nicholas was 19 years old (1 May 1978). He gradu
 KAHAN-Joshua. On September 17, 1997, 2 year old Joshua Kahan lost his courageous battle against leukemia. A fund has been established to help find a cure for Acute Myelocytic Leukemia (AML). If you wish to help, Jeff and Michele request that you contribute to the battle against childhood ca
 Timothy Wadsworth Stanley, an authority on defense policy who served in the 1960's as assistant to Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara for NATO force planning and then as a defense adviser, with the rank of minister, in the United States mission to NATO, died on Sunday at his home in Wa
 William L. Rowe, a nationally syndicated newspaper columnist who became New York City's first black deputy police commissioner, died on Thursday at Glen Island Care Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Isadora, said. M
 Herbert X. Blyden, the jail-hardened, prison-educated civil rights activist who gave eloquent voice to 1,200 beleaguered inmates as their chief negotiator during the 1971 Attica prison uprising, died on Sunday at a hospice in Buffalo. He was 61. His wife, Elaine, said the cause was 
 Matt Christopher, whose more than 120 sports novels for children and young adults entranced two generations of American youth and sold six million copies worldwide, died Saturday at the Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 years old. His family said he died of compl
 CHARLES-Richard Lincoln. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the loss of its beloved Trustee, Richard Lincoln Charles. Chair of The Fund's Nursing Home and Assisted Living Facility Committee, he was also admired for his leadership of The Lambs Club and Foundation, where he served as Shepherd
 GOTTLIEB-Jack. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our friend and client of many years. Jack will be especially missed by his dear friends, Bunny and Bert Podell, who shared a lifetime of joy and sorrow with Jack and Edythe. We extend heartfelt
 GREEN-Jules L., 84, of New York City, died on September 15, 1997. Beloved husband of late Nancy W. (Stern) Green for 33 years. Mr Green began his career as a film booker in his native Pittsburgh. Later, he arrived in Los Angeles where he worked as Bob Hope's agent before becoming Steve Alle
 HECHT-Ira M. Life partner for 16 years to James Esposito. Son of David Hecht and the late Donna Belonte-Hecht. Brother of Victor Hecht. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services are on Wednesday, 1:30 P.M. precisely, Goldsteins' Rosenberg's RaphaelSacks, 6410 North Broad Street,
 KIMMEL-Michael. On Sept 22, 1997, at home. Beloved husband of Karen, nee Krause, adored son of Sylvia, and loving brother of Bruce and Robert. The celebration of his life is to be held on Thursday, Sept. 25th, at 11 A.M. at his home.       
 McDERMOTT-Maurice M. The members of the Seymour Association extend our deepest sympathy to Claire, Chris and Glen McDermott. For seven years, Mac served ably and skillfully as an Assistant U.S. Attorney. He was a trusted and wise Assistant Chief of the Criminal Divison. We miss him and hono
 OVERMAN - William Peter. Adored and beloved husband of Jane Leavy Overman. Adored and loving father of Jennifer Overman, David and Jonathan Blinken. Pop Pop to Allegra, Emma and Benjamin. Beloved brother to Nancy Sher and friend to so many. Funeral services to be held Wednesday, September 2
 SCHEINE-Arnold J. On behalf of the Board of Directors and Officers of LCS Industries, Inc., we note with deep sorrow and great sadness the passing of our founder, Chairman and President, and the loss of a friend. Arnie Scheine was an individual of great strength and foresight, who built our
 SHEA-Thomas G. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas G. Shea, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Victor D. Ziminsky, Jr., President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 SLOSBERG - Howard. Beloved husband of Gloria; loving father of Mark and Lisa, Ronald and Kathy, Craig and Chris, Eric and Sarah; loving grandfather of seven; devoted brother of Alyce and Frank Juliano and Jay William and Florence Seligman. SLOSBERG-Howard. September 22, 1997. The Ji
 STOCK-Leonard Plaut. Of Pompano Beach, Florida on September 22nd. Beloved husband of Ruth (Gunzburger). Loving father of Ellen, John and his wife Janet. Devoted grandfather of Alissa and Debbie. Visiting hours at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street on Wednesday, September 24th 5:30PM to 
 TRAINA-Nicholas John Steel-in San Francisco, September 20, 1997, after a longtime struggle with a lifetime illness and valiant fight to the end, of an accidental overdose. Son of Danielle Steel Traina and John A Traina, Jr., of San Francisco. Nicholas was 19 years old (1 May 1978). He gradu
 George Thomas, a former Speaker of the House of Commons whose cry of ''Order, Order!'' in his distinctive lilting Welsh accent became a British catch phrase, died on Monday in Cardiff, the Welsh capital. Created  Viscount Tonypandy when he joined  the House of Lords in 1983, he was 88.     
 Abe Gibron, who left his mark on professional football as a player, coach, wisecracker and gourmand, died on Tuesday at home in Belleair, Fla. He turned 72 the day before and had been confined to home since strokes in December and February. Gibron played guard on offense and nose gu
 David B. Kelly, who modernized the New Jersey State Police during his tenure as its Superintendent from 1965 to 1974, but who later retired  after being criticized by his own men as a harsh disciplinarian, died Sunday in the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 79. 
 George L. Hinman, a longtime political adviser to Nelson A. Rockefeller who was also a Republican national committeeman for two decades, died on Sunday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 91. He had been in declining health in recent months, said a grandson, Robert H. Getz.      
 CHARLES-Richard. We mourn the loss of our beloved fellow member and esteemed trustee of the Actors' Fund and Shepherd of the Lambs, he was a great leader and a great guy. Our love to Joyce and Randy. The Players       
 HALPERN-Stephen J., 60. Of Lincroft, New Jersey, died suddenly September 20, 1997. Doctor of Law, he was a member of the New York and New Jersey Bar, Cornell Law School Association, Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity and Horace Mann Alumni Association. Adored & loving husband of Edith. Devoted 
 KAYNARD-Samuel M. Beloved husband of Ann Kaynard. Loving father of Meryl and Alan Kaynard, Gerry Wall and Joyce Kaynard. Adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Emma and Natalie. Patriarch of our extended family. Teacher and mentor of many. He will live in our hearts forever. Funeral service to be 
 MAXWELL-Manuel, on September 23, 1997. Mercifully. Beloved husband of Rhoda for 53 years. Loving father of Douglas F. Dear brother-in-law of Sandy and Fern Granowitz. Devoted uncle of many nieces and nephews, great nieces and nephews and great great nieces and nephews. Service Sunday 10 AM 
 MCDERMOTT-Maurice M. We mourn the untimely loss of our dear friend and longtime colleague Mac. We will miss his sage counsel and unflagging good humor. Our heartfelt sympathy to Claire and the family. Andrew M. Lawler, P.C.       
 PAFFARD-Frederic Chauncey. Longtime resident of Sewickley, PA, Stonington, CT., and Mountain Lake, FL., died at his family home on September 23. Born on May 7, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY, son of the late Dr. Frederic C. Paffard and Helen Adams Paffard of Stonington. Survived by his wife of 58 yea
 RACKOW-Leon L., M.D., Died September 16, 1997 in Pompano Beach, Florida. Survived by his loving wife Doris, children Eric, Kenneth and Sari, grandchild Lauren and sister Norma Perlman. He was Director of FDR Hospital in Montrose, New York and Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Cornell Medi
 RAISLER-Herbert A. Of Purchase, NY and Boca Raton, Fl. A very special person suddenly left us on September 23, 1997. Beloved husband of Norma. Loving father of Margery Fisher and Richard and Kenneth Raisler and his wife, Sara. Devoted brother of Shirley Medalie. Beloved grandfather of Laure
 SAMMAN-Ayman. With deep sorrow we mourn the passing of our friend Ayman in Miami Beach, FL on Sunday, September 14, 1997. We all feel privileged to have known him. He will live forever in our hearts. Our sincere sympathy to his mother, Berlant, and all his family. Funeral arrangements were 
 SWITZLER-William F., 88. Of South Kent, CT., formerly of Montclair, N.J. Died peacefully on September 21. Survived by his wife of 50 years, Beulah Burgess Switzler, two children, C. Brant Switzler of Stockton, N.J. and Jayne S. Warman of Bronxville, N.Y., their spouses Angele and Ray, and s
 TRAINA-Nicholas John Steel, in San Francisco, September 20, 1997, after a longtime struggle with a lifetime illness and valiant fight to the end, of an accidental overdose. Son of Danielle Steel Traina and John A Traina, Jr., of San Francisco. Nicholas was 19 years old (1 May 1978). He grad
 BURTON-John R. A graduate of M.I.T. and Harvard Business School and a Colonel with Shaef during W.W. II, passed away one year ago today leaving his widow, two sons, John and George of Bow, N.H. and Agoura Hills, CA, respectively, and his brother Clark, Moneta, VA. He is missed.       
 David J. Kriskovich, who went from serving as a Green Beret in Vietnam to an F.B.I. career where he helped develop the concept of the special weapons team, died on Sept. 17 in a helicopter crash in Bosnia, where he had gone to help that country re-establish its police force. Mr. Kri
 James J. Houlahan, a former advertising executive at the William Esty Company, died on Sept. 18 at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90 and had lived in Ocean Ridge, Fla. and Martha's Vineyard, Mass. As chief executive of William Esty from 1942 to 1960, Mr. Houlah
 Livio A. Beccaccio, an F.B.I. official who supervised the training of thousands of local police officers who later rose to leadership in their departments nationwide, was among 12 people killed in the crash of a United Nations helicopter in Bosnia on Sept. 17. He was 58 and lived on
 DAVID-Rev. Raymond J. On September 25, 1997. Pastor-Emeritus of Our Lady of Good Counsel R.C. Church, Inwood, L.I. Survived by his sister Cecile B. David, his nephew Joseph David III and several grandnieces and nephews. He was predeceased by brothers John and Joseph Jr. and sister Katherine
 GERSHON-Herbert. Members of Master Truckmen of America mourns the passing of their former Executive Director and esteemed colleague and extend their deepest sympathies to his family. Funeral at Beth-David Cemetery. Graveside #       
 GROSS-Nelson. Of Saddle River, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Noel. Cherished son of Albert and the late Rose. Devoted father of Dinah Mills and Neil. Dear brother of Paul and Michael. Loving grandfather of Eliza and Jacob. Services private. For information ''Gutterman - Musicant,'' 1 - 800
 HECHT-Ira M. Life partner for 16 years to James Esposito. Son of David Hecht and the late Donna Belmonte-Hecht. Brother of Victor Hecht. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services are on Wednesday, 1:30 P.M. precisely, Goldsteins' Rosenberg's RaphaelSacks, 6410 North Broad Street
 HOWELL-Alleyne Carleton Jr., age 85, of Fairfield, husband of Jean Field Howell, died Tuesday, September 16, 1997, in Bridgeport Hospital of heart failure. Mr. Howell lived on Greenfield Hill in Fairfield. He founded and until recently managed the Howell Corporation, Stratford, which design
 KAYNARD-Samuel M. We mourn the passing of our friend, colleague, teacher and recipient of the Committee's Lifetime Achievement Award. As Director of NLRB Region 29, Regional Attorney of NLRB Region 2 and law Professor, Sam helped shape the law with intelligence, fairness, compassion and a p
 KOURTAKIS - Emmanuel, in Brooklyn, NY, on September 22, at 79. Cherished husband of Joanna. Devoted father of Evanthia and Kostantinos, and their spouses, Emmanuel and Maria. Adored grandfather of Christina and John. His devotion to his children and sacrifices to ensure their education are 
 MAXWELL-Manuel. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Healthcare and Rehabilitation is deeply saddened by the loss of one of its esteemed founders and Past Chairman, Manuel Maxwell. We will remain forever grateful for his visionary leadership and extraordinary devotion to the
 PAKULA-Peter F. Age 58. Beloved husband of Marlies and adored brother of Judy. Memorial services Frank E. Campbell, 81 St and Madison Ave, Sun, Sept 28, 1:30PM. Contributions in his memory to Columbia Univ., Dept of Neurology, ''Patient Care'', Dr. D. Sciarra, Neurological Institute, Rm 214
 RAISLER-Herbert A. Of Purchase, NY and Boca Raton, Fl. A very special person suddenly left us on September 23, 1997. Beloved husband of Norma. Loving father of Margery Fisher and Richard and Kenneth Raisler and his wife, Sara. Devoted brother of Shirley Medalie. Beloved grandfather of Laure
 STUBER-Florian. The English and Speech Department of The Fashion Institute of Technology mourn the loss of Professor Florian Stuber, a superb teacher, a distinguished scholar, and a beloved colleague. His outstanding contributions to the Department and the College will be long remembered.  
 DENENHOLZ - Marshall Freed. (1908-1997). Celebrate his life on Sunday, October 5 at 3 P.M., in Manhattan. Call 516-537-1961.       
 Shoichi Yokoi, a Japanese soldier who hid in the jungles of Guam for 27 years rather than surrender to American forces at the end of World War II, died on Monday of a heart attack. He was 82. Mr. Yokoi returned in 1972 to Japan -- an entirely different country than the one he had la
 Arthur A. Rutledge, who arrived in Hawaii as a young stowaway from Seattle in 1934 and stayed to become one of Hawaii's most powerful union leaders ever, died on Monday at Kaiser Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 90 and lived in Honolulu. The cause of death was heart failure, said 
 Ernest J. Parham, whose riveting account of one of the century's most appalling racial atrocities prompted the Florida Legislature to provide the survivors a measure of compensation more than 70 years after the fact, died last Saturday at a hospital near his home in Orlando. He was 93.     
 Frederick W. Zuckerman, a former treasurer of the Chrysler Corporation, RJR Nabisco and the International Business Machines Corporation, died on Sept. 19 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan at age 63. The cause was colon cancer, his daughter, Lee Zuckerman, said. Mr. Zuck
 Max Berking, an advertising executive who became an influential figure in Westchester County Democratic politics, died on Wednesday at the home of his daughter, Charlotte Berking Zanecchia, in Alford, Mass. He was 80 and had lived in Northport, Fla., since his retirement in 1982. Th
 GROSS-Nelson Gerard, on Wednesday, September 17, 1997, after succumbing to an unprovoked vicious attack by three thugs who inflicted multiple stab wounds to his chest and back. He is the beloved husband of Noel; the loving father of Neil and Dinah; the devoted brother of Michael and Paul an
 MAGAZINER - Wallace Robert (Bob). Died peacefully on September 24th. in his home after a long illness. Loving brother of Elliot, loving uncle of Leni Johnston and Phyllis Shea and good friend whose many devoted friends helped him through these two difficult years.       
 MEHLMAN-Ernest. The family of Ernest Mehlman, his beloved wife Rae, his children Diane Schiff, Rabbi Daniel Mehlman, Evelyn Liker, and Chani Dear announces that the funeral will take place on Sunday, September 28, at 11 A.M., at Shomeri Adath Chapels, 3803 14th Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. S
 NORTON-Tyler David. Beloved son of Amy Norton (nee Littlefield) and Michael Norton of Upper Montclair, N.J. Taken all too soon in his eleventh day of life. He will be dearly missed by parents, grandparents, family and friends. We love you ''wiggle worm''.       
 SELTZER-David John. Age 71. Died in Tucson, AZ, September 24, 1997. Formerly of Cliffside Park, NJ. Survived by his wife of fifty years Faye, sons Cliff A. (Elaine) and Brad M. (Tina) Seltzer and six grandchildren. Memorial services will be held at 9 AM on Sunday, September 28, 1997 at East
 WOLF-Alexander. MD. On September 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Tony Prince and the late Florence Interrante. Loving brother of Dr. Harriet Strachstein and the late Dr. Abner Wolf. Dear uncle and good friend. He was the originator in psychiatric analysis in groups and the Diegophreni
 YUBAS-Jonathan. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jonathan Yubas. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Susan, his children Jessica, Marissa and Natalie. Leon Fassler, President Monty Davis, Sec
 HIGGINS-Dr. Donal Kevin. Say not in grief that he is no more, but that he was. Maureen       
 T. Emmet Clarie, the Federal judge who presided over the most complex criminal case in Connecticut history -- the six-year-long legal proceedings against Puerto Rican nationalists charged with stealing $7 million in 1983 -- died on Wednesday at Day Kimball hospital in Putnam, Conn. He was 8
 Canio Pavone, the founder of one of Sag Harbor's true institutions, Canio's Books, was reminiscing about how he came to learn Japanese, having already mastered his grandfather'ss native Italian at home, and French and Spanish in college, when the pounding on his store's door began. 
 Gustave Freeman, a pathologist who used animals to show how chronic exposure to low levels of air pollutants can harm the lungs, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 88. His research played a significant role in setting national and global standards for human exp
 COGAN-James R., aged 69, died on September 26, 1997. Survived by his wife, Arrial, his children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia Finney, and seven grandchildren. Memorial service on Wednesday, October 1 at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, Fifth Avenue and 10th Street. For those who wish, 
 COURY-William A. Died June 29, 1997. Predeceased by his wife Frances Fagley Coury and son Donald W. Survived by his son David F. His vision, stories and good work will be missed. Memorial service October 4 at St. Mark's in Mt. Kisco. Donations to Wellesley College in lieu of flowers.       
 ECKSTAT-Charles, 89, on Sept. 22. A language teacher in the NYC school system for 30 years, active in the labor movement, a loyal union member. Survived by his beloved wife of 61 years, Jenny Eckstat, his daughter Elsa Meyers, his son-in-law Ronald R. Meyers. By his grandchildren Daniel Mey
 FRANK-George, 94, master wood finisher with works in the Louvre and Metropolitan Museum, died September 2 in his native Budapest, Hungary. He lived in Paris, where he established his atelier, moved to New York and founded the George Frank Cabinet Corporation. On retiring to Florida, he beca
 GOLDBERG-Howard. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend to many, died on September 26, 1997. Served in the armed forces from 1943 to 1946 and was a founding member of Temple Emanuel New Hyde Park. He will be forever missed by all.       
 HARRIS-Dr. Leonard. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis club record with great sorrow the passing of our member Leonard Harris. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to Miriam and the family. Peter Agins, President       
 KAYNARD-Samuel M., J.D., L.L.M. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Samuel M. Kaynard, Professor of Law at the Hofstra University School of Law. Professor Kaynard taught at the School of Law for eleven years. He received his B.A. from College of the City of New York, h
 MEHLMAN-Ernest. The Lido Beach Synagogue family mourns the passing of the father of our distinguished Rabbi, Daniel Mehlman. May he and the family be comforted in their time of bereavement with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Herman Berger, President       
 MESSINGER-Alex. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Alex Messinger. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Deana, and his entire family. Leon Fassler, President Monty Davis, Secretary MESS
 NIGOGOSIAN-Vahakn. The Board and membership of the Violin Society of America bid a fond farewell to Vahakn Nigogosian. One of America's most important restorers of fine stringed instruments, he was a founding member of the Violin Society, joining the Board of Directors in 1973 and serving i
 OSTERWEIS-Harry L. 88. Died in NYC September 25, 1997. He was the husband of May Louise Bodenheimer Osterweis. He was the son of the late Rose and Gustav Osterweis. Born February 5, 1909 in New Haven, CT. He graduated Yale College in 1931 and later Yale Law School. He served in the Army Air
 PARIS-Dr. Leon. Age 88, died suddenly on September 23, 1997, in Florida. Predeceased by loving wife Jerry. Beloved father of Lenny (Alvin) Katz, Philip (Sally), Michael, and Judy. Brother of Sarah. Devoted Poppop to grandchildren and great-grandchidren. He will be greatly missed.       
 SCHMIDT-Harry W., Jr. On September 23, 1997. He is survived by his sister-in-law Jeannine, nieces and nephews Kendall, Mary, Copeland and Rebecca. Services Sunday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SCHUBECK-John. Veteran broadcast newsman. Los Angeles, September 26, 1997. John Schubeck a veteran of local television news died of multi-systems failure at the Columbia West Hills Medical Center early Friday morning. John's career spanned 35 years making him one of the most distinguished n
 SILVERCLOUD-Cochise Ochoa. On September 15th. As a Makeup Artist/Hair Stylist in fashion photography and commercials he lived in L.A., New York and Paris. We mourn the loss of one who could always surround us with laughter. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to the Madrone Hospice, Bo
 SWIG-Richard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Richard Swig of San Francisco. Chairman of the board of the Northern California chapter of the ATS for the past decade, Mr. Swig was fervent in his support of Israel and
 WOLF-Alexander. MD. On September 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Tony Prince and the late Florence Interrante. Loving brother of Dr. Harriet Strachstein and the late Dr. Abner Wolf. Dear uncle and good friend. He was the originator in psychiatric analysis in groups and the Diegophreni
 WORKMAN-David. We mourn the death of David, our President and devoted Board member. David more than anyone understood the role for basic cancer research. His wisdom and leadership helped the Foundation through its infancy. He formulated and guided our efforts for economic independence by cr
 Phillip David Marcus Brown, an actor and singer, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 37. The cause was heart failure resulting from a severe asthma attack, his family said. Mr. Brown, who was born in San Francisco, studied acting at the American Academy of Dram
 Victor Szebehely, a theorist of celestial mechanics whose work in the 1950's provided the tools still used to chart the orbits of spacecraft, died on Sept. 13 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jo Betsy Lewallen. At the Center for Spa
 William M. Miley, the acrobatic officer who transformed ground troops into the Army's first parachute combat unit in 1940, then led the famous jump across the Rhine that helped sound the Geronimo death knell for Nazi Germany in 1945, died on Wednesday at his home in Starkville, Miss. He was
 Cary Lu, a scientist, author and film maker known for his ability to explain science and technology to children and adults, died of cancer on Wednesday, according to his wife. He lived in Kirkland, Wash., and was 51 years old. Mr. Lu worked in television for several years for NBC an
 Joel Hilton Fisher, a Washington lawyer who helped recover gold, silver and artwork looted by the Nazis in World War II, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Baltimore. He was 79. In 1945, as a lieutenant commander in the Coast Guard assigned to the fiscal branch of the Supreme Hea
 Jules L. Green, a television producer, died on Sept. 15 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Green began his career as a film booker in Pittsburgh. After moving to Los Angeles, he worked as Bob Hope's agent before becoming S
 Mason Rankin, a Salt Lake City businessman who had such an abundance of compassion for people with AIDS that he kept scores of volunteer knitters furiously clicking away to supply afghans, sweaters, scarves and hats to people in Utah's H.I.V. community, died on Sept. 21 at a hospital in Sal
 Murray Burnett, the unsung author of the play on which one of America's iconic movies, ''Casablanca,'' was based, died on Tuesday in his apartment in Manhattan at the age of 86. As a 27-year-old English teacher at a New York vocational high school, Mr. Burnett went to German-occupie
 BEENSTOCK-Edward. Age 91. September 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Gladys. Adoring father of Barbara and J. Robert Mann, Jr., and Edward, Jr., and Vivian Beenstock. Loving grandfather of John and Lisa Mann, Anthony and Sally Mann, Margaret and Ted Berenblum, Jeffrey and Sharyn Beenstock and S
 COGAN-James R., aged 69, died on September 26, 1997. Survived by his wife, Arrial, his children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia Finney, and seven grandchildren. Memorial service on Wednesday, October 1 at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, Fifth Avenue and 10th Street. For those who wish, 
 MAXWELL - Manuel (Manny). The entire NYU Law School community mourns the passing of one of its great citizens. Always there to guide and to help, Manny was a model lawyer and a wonderful friend. We will remember him with love always. Martin Lipton, Chair of Trustees John Sexton, Dean       
 McWILLIAMS-Louis J., 62, of Freehold Township, NJ, on September 26, 1997. Member of N.Y. Stock Exchange. Survived by his wife, Agnes, six children and eight grandchildren. For further information contact Higgins Memorial Home, Freehold, NJ, 732-462-0895.       
 POSSES-Frederick. On September 22, 1997, in Kansas City, MO. Former resident of New York City and Amityville, LI. Son of the late Max and Minnie Posses; former husband of the late Catherine Moynahan Posses. Survived by his daughter Mary Posses of Kansas City, and by nieces, nephews and cous
 SWIG-Richard L. The members of the Weiler and Arnow families are saddened by the death of our associate and partner of many years. We extend our sincere sympathy and condolences to his wife, Roselyne, his children, and all of the members of the Swig and Dinner families. The Weiler and Arnow
 WORKMAN-David Thorpe. On September 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Sue. Devoted father of Betsy Lee and Cindy. Loving brother of Peter. Cherished son of Bernard. This generous, respected man will be profoundly missed by all who knew and loved him. Sevices Monday, 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'
 Pedro de Castro Van Dunem, a former Angolan Foreign Minister who led important negotiations for his country's Government, died on Tuesday in Luanda, the Angolan capital. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, said the French newspaper Le Monde, which reported his death in its Satu
 Albert Gailord Hart, a former professor of economics at Columbia University known for his research in monetary policy and economic development, died Sept. 19at his home in Sherman, Conn., at the age of 88. Mr. Hart, a graduate of Harvard College who earned his Ph.D. at the Universit
 Dr. Karl F. Koopman, an expert on bats and a former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sept. 22 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the museum announced on Friday. He was 77. He apparently died of natural causes, said Dr. Nancy Simmons, acting ch
 Herbert A. Einhorn, a retired New York lawyer who specialized in corporate mergers, takeovers and proxy fights, died Sept. 19 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 84. Mr. Einhorn was a co-author of several books dealing with legal and policy questions in takeovers and the mechanics 
 John F. McMahon Jr., president of Volunteers of America from 1958 until retiring in 1979, died on Tuesday in Louisville, Ky. He was 87. Mr. McMahon was the organization's first national president who did not come from relatives of Ballington and Maud Booth, who founded Volunteers of
 Milton R. Friedman, a real estate lawyer and scholar who wrote several standard works on property law, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Friedman, a graduate of Yale College and Yale Law School, was a law clerk, then known as law secretary, to Judges Learned 
 COGAN-James R., aged 69, died on September 26, 1997. Survived by his wife, Arrial, his children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia Finney, and seven grandchildren. Memorial service on Wednesday, October 1 at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, Fifth Avenue and 10th Street. For those who wish, 
 COPELAND-Arnold I. On September 28th, 1997. Beloved husband for 58 years of Muriel. Devoted father of Arthur Copeland of Stamford, Ct., Jackie Beecher of Puerto Rico & Jill Simbari of Cortlandt Manor, NY. Cherished grandfather of 11. Also survived by his sister Mildred Kirsch of New Jersey.
 GREENE-Myron L. (Mike), 79, died suddenly on September 28th, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of James and Robert, father-in-law to Marinita and Debra, loving grandfather of Anthony, Max, Lindsay, Benjamin and Hannah, adoring sisters Gloria Kaye, Arleen Gevanthor, loving sis
 HICKS-Everett, age 74, of Port Washington, L.I., on September 28, 1997. Beloved father of Mark Hicks of Naples, Fla., Jeffrey Hicks of No. Brookfield, Mass., and Lindsay Reeves of Chapel Hill, N.C. Devoted grandfather of seven grandchildren. Also survived by sisters, Grace Johns and Helen C
 JACOBSON-S. Hirsch. We mourn the passing on Shabbat, September 27, of our beloved former principal and master teacher. He led our school with vision and commitment and helped to create an outstanding Conservative Jewish Day School. We extend our deepest sympathy to his devoted wife Marion, 
 LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. Agnes Gund, founder of Studio in a School, its Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of their dear friend and Board Member, Roy Lichtenstein. Roy's generous support of Studio's programs in New York City Public Schools and his interest and caring in bringing the 
 MARCUS-David. Died on September 28th, 1997. Beloved father of Adam David and Uncle of Carol Landsman. Services today at 10AM, Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York. Graduated from the University of Kentucky and Cornell Law School and practiced law with distincti
 RAVIN-Allen. The Ford Dealers Alliance would like to express our deepest sympathy to the family of Allen Ravin. Allen had been legal counsel to the Alliance since its inception in 1969 and had worked relentlessly with dealers toward ending factory injustices beginning in 1967. His dedicatio
 ROSS-Daniel G. On September 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Grace Jarcho Ross. Loving father of Ann & Michael Loeb, James & Laura Ross, Lynn & Edward Rosenfeld. Adored grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of 6. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday 7-9
 SOFFER-Stuart, 55. On 9/26/97. He was the Supervisor of Music for the Bedford School District in Westchester. He is survived by his mother, Marion, adored sister, Janet, and brother, Marvin. Services were held Sunday.       
 STYLES-James G., Chappaqua, N.Y., September 28, 1997. Son of Patricia Styles. Husband of Ann M. (nee Lacoseglio). Father of twin sons, Gordon and Connor. Brother of Michael and Roger Styles and Kathleen Nehus. Resting Beecher Funeral home, Pleasantville, where family will receive friends We
 SWIG-Richard. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Richard Swig of San Francisco, a champion of the Jewish community and fervent supporter of Israel, who will be greatly missed. Mr. Swig emulated the extraordinary generosity and humanitarian concerns of his family
 WEISBACH-Gamliel. We mourn our co-founder. Gam was a brilliant, compassionate and unselfish person. His imagination, generosity and creativity earned the respect of everyone. He was a credit to the accounting profession and he will be sorely missed by us. Weisbach & Greenfield, PC George Gr
 YUBAS-Jonathan. A good man. A good doctor. A good friend. Our love and admiration to his children Jessica, Marissa, Natalie, and especially to his wife Susan. Rebecca Mercer-White Tommy, Larry & Deborah White Sarah and Matthew Barnett       
 Roy Lichtenstein, the quintessential master of Pop painting and a major figure in American art since he began scavenging comics like ''Winnie Winkle,'' ''G.I. Combat'' and ''Secret Hearts'' (''I don't care! I'd rather sink -- than call Brad for help!''), died yesterday at New York Universit
 Samuel Kaynard, a former official with the National Labor Relations Board in Brooklyn and a law professor who helped train many of New York's labor lawyers, died last Tuesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Roslyn Estates, N.Y. The cause of death was complicat
 Vahakn Nigogosian, a builder and restorer of stringed instruments who operated the Stradivarius Studios on West 57th Street for many years, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 87. Mr. Nigogosian was born in Istanbul in 1910, and studied violin making there with K
 Walter Trampler, a violist who was a founding member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and who performed and recorded frequently with other chamber ensembles, died on Saturday at his home in Port Joli, Nova Scotia. He was 82 and lived in Port Joli and Manhattan. Mr. Tra
 William Craig, a historian who wrote two best-selling books about World War II, died on Sept. 22 at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 68. The cause was complications from kidney disease, said his son Edward. Mr. Craig was an advertising salesman in 1958 when he appea
 William M. Berger, a former vice chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange who had more than four decades of experience in commodities trading, died on Sept. 20 at St. Mary's Hospital in Rochester, Minn., while undergoing heart surgery. Mr. Berger, a resident of Stamford, Conn., 
