 John Michael Montias, an economist who became one of the foremost scholars on the painter Johannes Vermeer and a pioneer in the economics of art, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in New Haven. The cause was complications from melanoma, said his son
 AARONI--Abraham. 98, beloved husband of Celia (Siegel) who predeceased him two weeks ago, dear brother of Yetta, Minnie, Ida, Sam, Tillie and Paul, adored by his many nieces, nephews, great and grand nieces and nephews. Cherished by generations of devoted students and loyal friends. Most of
 BERGER--Mark. The members, Trustees and clergy of East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue mourn the loss of our beloved and respected Board Chairman. His wisdom, dedication and consideration will be sorely missed. Our condolences to Margaret and the entire family.       
 FEDER--Dr. Stuart. 75, of Manhattan, died July 29, 2005. Predeceased by his beloved and cherished wife Carol. Dear and devoted father to Susanna, Adam, and Aaron. Caring father-in-law to Colleen. Loving grandfather to Katlyn and Allison. Devoted friend to his companion Charlotte. Dr. Feder 
 GIAMELLI--Joseph. The Lee family mourns the tragic and sudden loss of their son-inlaw, brother-in-law and uncle. Our compassion and love go out to his dear wife and children. May he rest in peace.       
 MALCOM--John Winthrop. Of NYC and Jamestown, RI, died on July 30, 2005, in Providence, RI. Husband of Judith and father of Lily and Benjamin. Born in New York City on July 11, 1929. Youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs. George Ide Malcom of Norfolk, CT. Brother of William S. Malcom of Carli
 Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. We, the Board, faculty and staff, and the entire community of the Dwight-Englewood School, mourn the loss of a visionary educator, outstanding educational leader, and friend. From 1984-1998, Jim's leadership, as the school's headmaster, enhanced the school's reputat
 WIENER -- Ronald Charles. The Horace Mann School mourns with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our dear friend and parent, Ronald Wiener, adored husband of Heather and beloved father of our students, Kaitlin, MacGregor and Nicholas. A man of valor, wit, intelligence and wisdom, he was a
 ZANKEL--Arthur. A very good friend to us is gone. Along with countless others, we send our deepest condolences to Judy and his family. He was a truly rare human being. Marilyn Horne The Marilyn Horne Foundation ZANKEL--Arthur. My dear friend for more than 50 years who gave me so muc
 Willem F. Duisenberg, the blunt-spoken Dutch central banker who oversaw the introduction of the euro as the first president of the European Central Bank, was found dead on Sunday in a swimming pool at his villa in the south of France, the French government said. He was 70. An autops
 King Fahd, the absolutist monarch of Saudi Arabia who died yesterday after 23 years on the throne, guided his desert kingdom through sharp upheavals in the oil market, sweeping regional wars and the incessant, high-stakes scrimmage between Islamic tradition and breakneck modernization.     
 AARONI--Abraham. 98, beloved husband of Celia (Siegel) who predeceased him two weeks ago, dear brother of Yetta, Minnie, Ida, Sam, Tillie and Paul, adored by his many nieces, nephews, great and grand nieces and nephews. Cherished by generations of devoted students and loyal friends. Most of
 BELKIN--Gary. His friends, who are his family, mourn his death. Gary lost his battle with emphysema Thursday July 28. His comedy writing career spanned close to 60 years from New Yorker Cartoons to Emmy Award TV writing for Sid Caesar. He wrote for Danny Kaye, Johnny Carson, Anne Bancroft, 
 COHEN--Nathan. The family of Nathan Cohen mourns his loss. He passed away on July 29, 2005 at age 84. He was a true member of the ''Greatest Generation.''       
 DAVIS--John. Our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences on the untimely passing of our esteemed member John Davis. The Long Island Chapter of Young President's Org. mourns the loss of John, who could capture a crowd and entertain a room with his charismatic personality. We mourn for h
 FEDER--Stuart, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff in the Department of Psychiatry in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Stuart Feder, M.D. A long-time member of the Psychiatry faculty, S
 GUSBERG--Saul B., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Chairman of the Dept. from 1962-1980, Dr. Gusberg distinguished himself as an outstanding teacher, clinicia
 MALCOM--John Winthrop. Of NYC and Jamestown, RI, died on July 30, 2005, in Providence, RI. Husband of Judith and father of Lily and Benjamin. Born in New York City on July 11, 1929. Youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs. George Ide Malcom of Norfolk, CT. Brother of William S. Malcom of Carli
 MILLER--Manuel ''Manny''. Formerly of Dix Hills, NY on July 30, 2005 at the age of 78. Beloved father of Steven Miller and Joan Kimmel. Adored brother of David Miller. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Jason, Alexa and Jillian. He is predeceased by his wife of 40 years, Judy. Member of the Suff
 SHARGEL--Leo. On August 1st, 2005 at 92 years of age. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Devoted father of Deborah Cook. Adored grandfather of Linda Cook. Cherished brother of Beatrice Kornblatt. Loving uncle and dear friend to all who knew him. He will be greatly missed. Graveside services
 WIENER--Ron. To Ron Wiener, to one of the smartest men I've ever met, to one of the most elegant men I've ever met, to one of the most private men I've ever met, to one of the most decent men I've ever met, to a man who knew that money did not grow on trees, to someone who did everything to
 ZANKEL--Arthur. The Patrons Program is deeply saddened by the death of Arthur Zankel, the Patron of Our Lady of Mercy School in the Bronx. Because of Arthur's generosity, Our Lady of Mercy's inner-city elementary school children enjoyed academic learning and outstanding enhancement programs
 Pat McCormick, a comedian known for his unruly appearance and his immaculate one-liners, died on Friday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles, according to a hospital spokeswoman. He was 78. He had resided at the hospital since suffering a stroke in 1998.     
 Robert Wright, a composer and lyricist who, with his professional partner, George Forrest, made Broadway audiences swoon to the unlikely strains of Edvard Grieg and Alexander Borodin, died Wednesday in Miami. He was 90. His death was announced by his brother, Jack Wright, of Glovers
 David Shaw, the Pulitzer Prize-winning media critic for The Los Angeles Times whose deeply reported series were often tough on his own newspaper, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62. The cause was complications of a brain tumor, the paper said.   
 Donald Brooks, an early designer of American sportswear and one of the first to cross over from fashion to make clothes for the theater and the movies, died on Monday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. He was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The 
 Jay Hammond, who went from bush pilot, trapper and professional hunter to become the fourth governor of Alaska, earning Alaskans' gratitude by giving them annual dividends from gushing new oil revenues, died on Tuesday at his home at Lake Clark, in southwest Alaska. He was 83. The N
 BROOKS--Donald M. 77. Esteemed fashion and theatrical costume designer, popular teacher. Passed away on August 1, 2005. Beloved brother of Kay Brooks Blick (Edwin), dear uncle of Annie L. Richardson and great uncle of Christina, loyal friend of many years to Gerald H. Blum. A memorial servi
 DAVIS--John. Our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences on the untimely passing of our esteemed member John Davis. The Long Island Chapter of Young President's Org. mourns the loss of John, who could capture a crowd and entertain a room with his charismatic personality. We mourn for h
 GOLDBERG--Bernard, M.D. Beloved husband, devoted father, diligent son, loyal brother, doting grandpa, caring physician and loving friend. The greatest of the greatest generation, he will be forever missed. We love you. Service today at Sinai Chapels, Fresh Meadows, 11:15 AM.       
 GRISWOLD--John S. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the Children's Aid Society mourn the passing of former Chairman and President, John S. Griswold. His 50 plus years as officer, trustee and chairman emeritus of Children's Aid were a tribute to his leadership. His enlightened presence and
 KINGSBURY -- Oliver. Died August 1, 2005 at age 103 in Williamstown, MA. His wife, Margaret Smith Kingsbury, predeceased him in 1994. He is survived by his sons James Kingsbury of Greenport, N.Y., Robert Kingsbury of Williamstown, MA., daughter Tirzah Kingsbury of Danbury, CT., seven grandc
 KRIVELOFF -- Joseph. The community of West End Synagogue will miss this quiet, discreet gentleman. Our sympathies to all of his family. West End Synagogue A Reconstructionist Congregation Rabbi Yael Ridberg and Janet Rosenberg, Pres.       
 LUTZKY--Seymour. Beloved husband of Marian. Loving father of Seth and Carol Lutzky, Jane and Doug Trott, and Nancy and Leon Paley. Adored brother of Irene L. Wisoff and brother-in-law of Dr. Hugh S. Wisoff. He leaves behind his grandchildren, Rebecca Lutzky, Jonathan Trott, and Sarah and Jo
 MARKHAM--Herbert Morton, Esq. Until the day he died Herbert Markham Morton, 93, enjoyed actively practicing law for over 60 years. He died Saturday morning, July 30, 2005. Mr. Markham was legal council for the Stationers Associaton of New York, a position he held for more than half of its 1
 POST--George Birkbeck, Jr., the 8th generation of the original settlers of Quogue, NY on the south shore of Long Island, died July 28, 2005. He was 74. A memorial service will be held Friday August 5 at 11am at the Westhampton Presbyterian Church in Westhampton Beach, NY. In lieu of flowers
 SHAMBAN--William. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our devoted friend William Shamban of Santa Monica, Calif. A Technion Guardian who, with his wife, Sophia, reached the highest level of commitment to the ATS, the Technion and Israel, Mr
 TROTTA--A. Leonidas. We sadly announce the death of A. Leonidas Trotta on Thursday July 28 in Tyler, TX. Mr. Trotta was the former Vice President of the National Retail Merchants Association and the Director of the International Division. He was born on April 9, 1915 in New York City to Dr.
 WASSERMAN--Bert W. on August 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra, devoted son of Min and the late Jack Wasserman. Loving father of Mindee, Craig, Debra, and father-in-law of Marla and Jason. Cherished grandfather of Alison and Jared, dear brother of Adele (William), Rosanne (Al) and brother-
 ZANKEL--Arthur. The Board of Trustees of Skidmore College and the entire Skidmore family deeply mourn the death of Arthur Zankel, father of Skidmore graduates, trustee emeritus, generous benefactor, loyal friend, and honorary degree recipient. As a trustee, Art brought a wealth of experienc
 Al Aronowitz, one of the first professional journalists to cover rock 'n' roll, died on Monday in Elizabeth, N.J. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said his son Joel Roi Aronowitz. In columns and reviews for The New York Post and in feature articles for The Saturday Evening P
 Gary Belkin, a comedy writer whose credited works included jokes for Sid Caesar, Carol Burnett and the television series ''Car 54, Where Are You?'' and whose ghostwriting included some of the provocative poems intoned by Muhammad Ali, died on July 28 in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 79.    
 BROOKS -- Donald. The Trustees, faculty and staff of The New School and the Board of Governors of Parsons The New School for Design express their sadness at the passing of Donald Brooks, distinguished fashion designer, Parsons alumnus, Honorary Board member, Honorary Degree recipient, and m
 CORVINO--Alfredo. The entire Juilliard community deeply mourns the passing of Alfredo Corvino. A pillar of the Dance Division as a faculty member from 1953 to 1995, his artistry, professionalism, and integrity made him a beloved and deeply respected teacher and colleague. We extend our cond
 EISENBERG--Norman. Beloved husband, father, son and brother. Respected by all, Norman was an esteemed colleague, dedicated journalist and devoted supporter of Israel, where he served as a soldier in the IDF. A great humanitarian and leading professional in his field, Norman is survived by h
 GERSON--Joe. The Trustees and staff of Jewish Child Care Association are terribly saddened by the death of Joe Gerson. Joe was a good friend, energetic and generous supporter and proud allumnus of JCCA; We will miss him. Our hearts go out to his wide circle of friends and admirers and espec
 GOLDBERG--Bernard, M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the death of Bernard Goldberg, M.D., esteemed member of the Department of Ophthalmology since 1954. Our heartfelt condolences to his family.       
 HOLLMAN--Henry, July 25. Survived by his beloved wife of 65 years, Marguerite, children Douglas, Jeffrey and Wendy, eight grandchildren and brother, Bruce Hollman. Services at Trinity Church, Roslyn, NY, August 6, 10AM.       
 KAY--Richard S., 76, of Long Island, Me. Passed away Sunday, July 31, after a courageous battle against lymphoma. He was the beloved husband of Helen Rosengren Kay for 44 years. He was born on December 4, 1928 in Brooklyn, NY. He was a cellist who performed throughout the U.S., Europe and A
 RACANELLI--Nicholas. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Corinne, sons Nicholas E., David, Damian, Matthew and the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband, father and grandfather. A man of great 
 RASHER--Charles. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Trustees, medical staff and management of The Mount Vernon Hospital note with sadness the death of their Board Member, friend, community leader, and faithful supporter, Charles Rasher. Mr. Rasher has been a Mount Vernon resident for
 SHAPIRO--Abraham B. The Cantors Assembly mourns the loss of its beloved and distinguished Executive Administrator and Past President, Hazzan Abraham B. Shapiro. For a quarter of a century we relied upon his wisdom and experience which we will sorely miss. While possessing a particularly kee
 SUGARMAN--Eugene L., 89. Devoted husband of Frances. Beloved father of Robert and Surie, Douglas and Arleen and Risa. Adored grandfather & great-grandfather of Dana, Marc, Zachary and Jesse Zimmerman, Alison, Daniel & Kate Brown, Scott Sugarman and fiancee Kristen, Amanda and Jason Sugarman
 TROTTA--A. Leonidas. We sadly announce the death of A. Leonidas Trotta on Thursday July 28 in Tyler, TX. Mr. Trotta was the former Vice President of the National Retail Merchants Association and the Director of the International Division. He was born on April 9, 1915 in New York City to Dr.
 VON MEHREN--John M. Forty-nine years old, died of lung cancer on August 3, 2005, at his home in West Tisbury, MA., on Martha's Vineyard Island. Born in Manhattan John graduated from Saint Bernard's School, Boston University and earned a law degree from Western New England School of Law, in 
 WASSERMAN--Bert W. on August 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra, devoted son of Min and the late Jack Wasserman. Loving father of Mindee, Craig, Debra, and father-in-law of Marla and Jason. Cherished grandfather of Alison and Jared, dear brother of Adele (William), Rosanne (Al) and brother-
 YARMON--Morton. On August 3. Beloved husband of Betty, cherished brother of Elliott N., fond uncle of Thomas, James, Carol and Marjorie. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Calling hours Thursday 4 to 7 PM. Funeral service Friday, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, ''The Funeral Chapel
 MECHANIC--Samuel, Fannie, Sylvia G. ''Until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in His hand.''       
 Alfredo Corvino, a dancer who became a distinguished ballet teacher during more than four decades at the Juilliard School and who accepted the invitation of Pina Bausch, one of his prize pupils, to tour as her company's balletmaster, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 89 and live
 Little Milton, a bluesman with a gritty voice and a sensuous guitar style who had hits throughout the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday in a hospital in Memphis. He was 71 and lived in Las Vegas and Memphis. He died a week after suffering a stroke that left him in a coma, said Burton 
 Lucky Thompson, a legendary tenor and soprano saxophonist who took his place among the elite improvisers of jazz from the 1940's to the 1960's and then quit music, roamed the country and ended up homeless or hospitalized for more than a decade, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 81.       
 BROOKS--Donald. The Board of Directors of The American Theatre Wing wishes to express its condolences to the family and friends of Donald, a dedicated member of the ATW Board since 1993. A Tony Award nominee, noted theatrical designer and past member of the Tony Nominating Committee, his co
 CORVINO--Alfredo. The entire Juilliard community deeply mourns the passing of Alfredo Corvino. A pillar of the Dance Division as a faculty member from 1953 to 1994, his artistry, professionalism, and integrity made him a beloved and deeply respected teacher and colleague. We extend our cond
 DYNIA--Paul. Beloved husband of Judith, loving father of Michael, good friend, athlete, photographer, dedicated public servant, man of integrity, kindness and warmth. The Board and staff of the New York City Police Foundation mourn his untimley loss and extend our deepest sympathies to Judy
 HIGGINS--William Waugh, 70, of Greenwich died Wednesday, August 3 at home. Retired Senior Vice President of Chase Manhattan Bank. Husband of Judy Olin Higgins. Father of Barbara Epifanio, William Higgins Jr, Mary Dunne, Richard Higgins, Michael Higgins, James Higgins. Grandfather of 11. A M
 SPRATT--Charles H. Age 49, died Tuesday, August 2 in New Brunswick, NJ. Born in Ireland, he lived in East Brunswick for many years. He graduated with a BS in Political Science from Marist College and was a foreign exchange trader since 1981 with Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in NY. Devoted 
 SUGARMAN--Eugene L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eugene L. Sugarman, beloved father of Robert Sugarman, an esteemed friend and leader whose dedicated commitment to our Lawyer's Division enriches millions of lives in New York,
 TEITELBAUM--David. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member David Teitelbaum. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.       
 VINCENT--Steven. We are deeply shocked and saddened by the loss in Iraq of our friend and colleague. Steven was a passionate and intelligent reporter, in art and then in Basra. We will miss his reporting, his curiosity, humor, style, and passion for life. Our deepest sympathies to Lisa, his
 WASSERMAN--Bert W. On August 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra, devoted son of Min and the late Jack Wasserman. Loving father of Mindee, Craig, Debra, and father-in-law of Marla and Jason. Cherished grandfather of Alison and Jared, dear brother of Adele (William), Rosanne (Al) and brother-
 YARMON--Morton. On August 3. Beloved husband of Betty, cherished brother of Elliott N., fond uncle of Thomas, James, Carol and Marjorie. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Calling hours Thursday 4 to 7 PM. Funeral service Friday, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, ''The Funeral Chapel
 Al McKibbon, a bassist who anchored some of the leading jazz bands of the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 86. His death was announced by Gary Chen-Stein, a friend, who owns the music store Stein on Vine in Hollywood. Mr. McKibbon was admired by fellow 
 Dan Crawford, who as a boy in New Jersey fell in love with British comedy movies and followed his heart to London, where he ran a tiny theater in a rickety Victorian pub that became an influential stage for top-notch live drama, died in London on July 13. He was 62. The cause was li
 Morton Yarmon, a former director of public information and education for the American Jewish Committee and, with his wife, Betty, a major benefactor of Beth Israel Medical Center, died on Wednesday in his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 89. His death followed complication
 LAWNER--Murray W. On August 4, 2005, in Yonkers, NY. Federal safety engineer and teacher, prolific storyteller and humorist. Beloved husband of 68 years to Martha. Devoted father of Neil Lawner and Sharon Weinberg, devoted father-inlaw of Paula Lawner and Steven Weinberg and loving grandfat
 George Forman, a longtime comptroller of the American Civil Liberties Union who brought fiscal discipline to a ramshackle organization near bankruptcy in the late 1970's and later helped it develop into a powerful civil liberties conglomerate, died on Monday at the home of his daughter, Jud
 ABELSON--Professor Robert P., 76, died on July 13 of Parkinson's Disease. He was Eugene Higgins Professor of Psychology and Professor of Political Science at Yale University where he taught for 42 years. Professor Abelson received degrees from MIT and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 19
 BERNSTEIN--Lou. Legendary Photographer, Lecturer, Teacher, Critic, Author, Charter Member of The Photo League, died on August 2, 2005, at the age of 94. For the past six and a half decades without any interruption, Photography was his Love, Passion, Life and Art. Inquiries to Irwin Bernstei
 DAMESEK--Raphael Jacob. 69, of Ardsley, NY on August 3, 2005. Beloved husband of Simone. Devoted father of Joshua and his wife Stacey, Deborah and her husband Jonathan, Daniel and his wife Jill. Loving brother of Phyllis and Beverly. Seven grandchilden. Donations to Chai Lifeline.       
 GOMEZ--Ricardo ''Rick'' (age 40). Of Washington, DC and New York City on Wednesday, August 3, 2005 at his residence of liver cancer. Survived by his life partner Jim Morrissey, his brother Pedro Gomez (Sandra), nieces & nephews Reo, Dante and Sierra; Rae and Jerry Morrissey. Preceded in dea
 JANOWITZ--Murray. Still a kid at heart at 87, Murray Janowitz of UPS, Nestle/Gerber Cheese, Hasbeen/Squire Softball and Piper's Kilt Notoriety, died suddenly Thursday, July 28, 2005. He leaves behind Don Janson and Eileen. Funeral services were private. The family will be celebrating Murray
 LAVINE--Leroy S. A practicing orthopedic surgeon and researcher in NY for more than 30 years, died on July 25 in Chapel Hill, NC. He was 86. Born in Jersey City, NJ, he received his undergraduate and medical degrees from NYU. He was a Captain in the US Army in WW II. Dr. Lavine was Chief of
 LAWNER--Murray W. On August 4, 2005, in Yonkers, NY. Federal safety engineer and teacher, prolific storyteller and humorist. Beloved husband of 68 years to Martha. Devoted father of Neil Lawner and Sharon Weinberg, devoted father-inlaw of Paula Lawner and Steven Weinberg and loving grandfat
 NAGIN--Leon P. Of Singer Island, FL, formerly of Neponsit, NY. Died peacefully at home in Manhasset August 6th, one week short of his 92nd birthday. Husband of Sylvia, father of Laurance (Francine), Joshua (Ronna), Kenneth (Laurie) and Suzy (Evan Klass). Grandfather of Matthew, Jason, Jonat
 POLAY--Milton. Beloved husband of Rose. Devoted uncle of his many nieces and nephews. Services are today 10 AM at Kehila Chapels on his 90th birthday.       
 ROSENZWEIG--Ely. 88, beloved husband of the late Barbara, devoted father of Sue, Larry, Charles, Ellen and Jodi, cherished grandfather of Amy, Mike, Brad, Katie, Matthew, Alex, Jackie, Daniel and Ben, great-grandfather of Ian and loving brother-inlaw and uncle, died on August 5, 2005. Forme
 SILVER--Louis of Boca Raton, FL. died on August 3 in his 101st year. Adored father, grandfather and great-grandfather, he leaves his children Robert (Judi) of Boca Raton, Don (Bobby) of Hartland, VT. and Rona Rutchik (Martin) of Norwich, CT., seven grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren
 WALLACE--Henry Browne, H.B., as he preferred to be known, was born September 18th, 1915 in Des Moines, IA. He was the son of Ilo Browne Wallace and Henry Agard Wallace, the latter a former Secretary of Agriculture and Vice President of the United States. H.B. received a BS from Iowa State C
 WHITE--William R., Jr. 68, suddenly on August 1, 2005 in Sarasota, FL. He is survived by his son, William R. White III of Venice, FL, brother David R. White, Chatham, New Jersey and sister Deborah W. Andersen, Aiken, SC. He was born in NYC to the late William R. and Elizabeth White. He atte
 YARMON--Morton. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Morton Yarmon, beloved husband of Betty and a true philanthropic visionary. Morton's love of community and Jewish values were entwined in his support of such endeavors as hospitals
 The Rev. Dr. Theodore Alexander Gill Sr., a Presbyterian theologian, philosophy teacher and an influential provost emeritus of John Jay College in Manhattan, died on June 10 in Princeton. He was 85. The death was announced late last month by his family. A Presbyterian minist
 Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary who quit the government to protest the invasion of Iraq, died on Saturday after collapsing in the Scottish Highlands on a mountain called Ben Stack, the police said, without explaining the cause of death. He was 59. Mr. Cook was close t
 Ibrahim Ferrer, the Cuban singer whose life included one of popular music's most triumphant second acts, died on Saturday in Havana. He was 78. The cause was multiple organ failure, his manager, Carmen Romero, announced. Mr. Ferrer was at the center of the Buena Vista Social
 Leonard L. Farber, the first president of the International Council of Shopping Centers, died on July 28 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Farber joined the council as president when it was founded in 1957, as sho
 JANOWITZ--Murray. Still a kid at heart at 87, Murray Janowitz of UPS, Nestle/Gerber Cheese, Hasbeen/Squire Softball and Piper's Kilt Notoriety, died suddenly Thursday, July 28, 2005. He leaves behind Don Janson and Eileen. Funeral services were private. The family will be celebrating Murray
 NAGIN--Leon P. Of Singer Island, FL, formerly of Neponsit, NY. Died peacefully at home in Manhasset August 6th, one week short of his 92nd birthday. Husband of Sylvia, father of Laurance (Francine), Joshua (Ronna), Kenneth (Laurie) and Suzy (Evan Klass). Grandfather of Matthew, Jason, Jonat
 RIPP--Dr. Raymond M., of Garden City, NY, died August 5, 2005. He was born in Brooklyn on September 2, 1924, son of John A. Ripp and Genevieve O'Mahoney Ripp. He graduated from Garden City High School in 1942 and University of Pittsburgh Dental School in 1948. Upon graduation, Dr. Ripp serv
 STEIN--Jacob L. Optometrist, 87, of Sunnyside. Beloved husband of Dora. Devoted father of Victor, Marion, and Anita. Father - in - law of Wayne Olinzock. Proud grandfather of Matthew, Andrew, and Amy. He will be missed by his relatives, patients, neighbors, and friends. Services today, noon
 CLEMENT--Herbert. Died in NYC on February 8, at 77. He was an amateur violinist, the author of three books, and spent half his life as a zoo keeper and director in Boston and New York, and 71 years as a devoted circus fan.       
 Peter Jennings, a high school dropout from Canada who transformed himself into one of the most urbane, well-traveled and recognizable journalists on American television, died yesterday at home. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Charles Gibson, who ann
 Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary who quit the government to protest the invasion of Iraq, died on Saturday after collapsing in the Scottish Highlands on a mountain called Ben Stack, the police said, without explaining the cause of death. He was 59. Mr. Cook was close t
 Gene Mauch, who managed for 26 seasons in the major leagues and took three teams to the verge of a pennant but never to a World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. Mauch's death was announced by the Los Angeles Angels, who said he had cancer.    
 John H. Johnson, who used his mother's furniture as security for a $500 loan to start the business empire that eventually included Ebony and Jet magazines and that made him one of the nation's richest and most powerful black businessmen, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 87. A compa
 CLONEY--Thomas F. Jr. On August 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Camilla Duncan Cloney; father of Tom Cloney (Hiromi) and Mary Cloney; brother of Gerard P. Cloney (Annette), Cathleen C. McGoldrick (John), and the late Robert D. Cloney, SJ. Funeral services will be held at St. John's Episcopal Ch
 FOX--Joseph F. 79, of Milltown, NJ passed away on August 5, 2005. He had been a Pressman for The New York Times for 45 years before retiring as General Foreman in 1990. He is survived by his loving wife of 54 years, Margaret (nee Heyer) Fox. Devoted father of Chaille & Steven Lazar, Lawrenc
 FOX--Leonard Passon, M.D. Age 88. Died at home on August 7, 2005 after a protracted illness. He practiced internal/ family medicine in Forest Hills for 50 years with compassion and energy. He is survived by his devoted wife of 56 years, Lillian, son Leslie, daughter Joyce and three grandchi
 GOTSIS -- Dr. Constantine. Died August 6, 2005. Born in Aetos, Greece, Medical Degree with honors from Salonika Medical School. In 1962, he began a Pediatrics practice and was appointed to the faculty of the Albert Einstein Hospital and Medical College. He served as past President of Queens
 JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Peter Jennings. Peter joined the Carnegie Hall Board of Trustees in 1992 and was a committed and faithful friend throughout the years. Peter also served as a gracious and erudit
 NAGIN--Leon P. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Leon P. Nagin of Singer Island, FL., formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. He was a cherished friend, benefactor and member of the Board. Together with his wife Sylvia and his family, Leon was an importa
 RATHER--James B. III. Passed away August 6 at his home in Port Washington, NY. He was 65. A former federal prosecutor, he was diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis in 1990. Survivors include his wife Amalia, two sons, a daughter, sister, brother and four grandchildren. He battled ALS
 SIMON--Rabbi Joshua R. Passed away on August 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Dr. Miriam Bensimhon. Devoted father of Dylan Rafael and Marley Reuven. Loving son of Rabbi Matthew and Sara Rubinow Simon. Dear brother of Ethan (Sandy Katz) and Elizabeth (LT COL Jeffrey, USAF) Cowan. Services Tuesda
 Peter Jennings, a high school dropout from Canada who transformed himself into one of the most urbane, well-traveled and recognizable journalists on American television, died on Sunday at home. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Charles Gibson, who ann
 Abe Hirschfeld, the eccentric real estate magnate who made a fortune building parking garages in New York City and spent much of it courting publicity and running unsuccessfully for public office, died yesterday at Saint Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. He was 85. The cause was compl
 CLONEY--Thomas F. Jr. On August 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Camilla Duncan Cloney; father of Tom Cloney (Hiromi) and Mary Cloney; brother of Gerard P. Cloney (Annette), Cathleen C. McGoldrick (John), and the late Robert D. Cloney, SJ. Funeral services will be held at St. John's Episcopal Ch
 HERSH--Leonard (Lenny). September 18, 1918--August 8, 2005. Of Brooklyn and New Rochelle, N.Y., Stamford, CT. Son of the late Benjamin and Sara (nee Gemson) Hersh. Devoted husband of the late Claire (nee Darmstadtler), father of Lin of Bearsville, N.Y. and Ron of Purchase, N.Y. Bemused uncl
 HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became a
 JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Trustees and International Advisory Council of the American University of Beirut deeply mourn the death of Peter Jennings. Peter was a long-standing and valuable member of the AUB International Advisory Council, providing exceptional support and wise counsel to
 McCORMICK--Jack. 69, died August 8th at his residence in Ponte Vedra Beach. He was born August 17, 1935 in Binghamton, NY, the only child of the late James Leo McCormick and Esther Crimmins. Jack graduated from Cornell University in 1957 where he belonged to the SAE fraternity and played va
 NAGIN--Leon P. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Leon P. Nagin, a longtime supporter and philanthropist from Singer Island, North Palm Beach. His support of the Jewish people in our community will 
 RIBAUDO--Michael. Of Tenafly, NJ, on August 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Hassett). Devoted father of Peter and Benjamin and his wife Jane. Dear son of Carolyn. Adoring grandfather of Hayden. Dear brother of Robert and his wife Christina. Loving brother-in-law of Suzanne and Vit
 TEITELBAUM--David. The Trustees of the Practising Law Institute record with deep sorrow the loss of our friend and colleague, David Teitelbaum, Trustee since 1961 and Trustee Emeritus since 1985. We extend deepest sympathy to his family. Werner L. Polak, Chairman Stephen J. Friedman, Pres. 
 Thomas W. Langfitt, who led the Pew Charitable Trusts to prominence in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 78. His death followed a long illness, his family said. Dr. Langfitt, originally a medical researcher, retired in 1987 as chief of 
 Dick Heyward, a retired senior official of the United Nations Children's Fund who for more than 30 years developed and oversaw Unicef's relief efforts around the world, died on Aug. 3 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Mr. Heyward died after a long illness, U
 BACHE--G. Michael. 77, died August 8. US Foreign Service Officer 1951-1982. A graduate of Scarsdale H.S. 1944, Yale 1949, Harvard Law School 1954; he also worked for Bache & Co.       
 CLARY--William Atwell. June 18, 1918-August 9, 2005. A graduate of Washington and Lee University, he taught at Pace University, New York, from 1966 to 1993.       
 GANG--Lawrence. On August 9, 2005. Loving brother of Carolyn Gang Troob. Devoted uncle of Douglas and Peter. Loving friend of Lyn Segal. Services Thursday 9:30AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. GANG -- Lawrence, passed away on Tuesday. Larry, a lifetime friend, was
 GILBERTSON--Dr. Francis E., 81, of Rumson, New Jersey, on August 10, 2005. Beloved husband Susan Van Wyck Gilbertson. Father of Hank, Mark and Peter Gilbertson and Alison McHeffey. Stepfather of Carl and Stephen de Gersdorff and Susan Stamos. Loving brother of Mary Kay Arliss and Patricia N
 HIGGONS--John Axford III, of Irvington, NY, died in Irvington on August 9, 2005, at age 85. He graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University's class of 1943, served as a U.S. Navy aviator in World War II and spent most of his business career as an advertising representative and sales 
 HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became a
 JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Trustees and International Advisory Council of the American University of Beirut deeply mourn the death of Peter Jennings. Peter was a long-standing and valuable member of the AUB International Advisory Council, providing exceptional support and wise counsel to
 KEELAN--Brian. In Cornwall, England while on holiday, Brian Keelan, beloved husband of Araceli, father of Geordie & Thomas, and brother of Rory & Aidan, died suddenly in the early hours of Saturday morning the 6th August 2005 from complications arising from leukaemia. An inspired man whose 
 LEYTON -- Martin W. Of Scarsdale, NY, passed away August 9 after a long illness. He is survived by his loving wife Janice Beckhard, adored children Randi, Mark and Jennifer, stepson Jonathan, and pride and joy grandchildren, Caleigh and Jeffrey, as well as his brother Jason. Funeral service
 MEYER--Theodor Henry, 77, passed away after a short but bravely fought battle with cancer at New York-Presbyterian Hospital on August 10. Born in Bern, Switzerland, he attended Le Rosey in Rolle, and lived in Bern and Puttenham, England. Beloved husband for forty years of Claire Meyer, step
 O'BRIEN--Joseph A. 90, beloved father of Robert, Joel, and Geoffrey, adored grandfather of Heather, died in a car accident in Lenox, MA on July 24, 2005. Joe was born on July 16, 1915, in Yonkers. In 1935 he was hired as a radio announcer by WMCA, beginning an association of three decades. 
 RIBAUDO--Michael. Age 56, of Tenafly, NJ, on August 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Hassett). Devoted father of Peter and Benjamin and his wife Jane. Dear son of Carolyn. Adoring grandfather of Hayden. Dear brother of Robert and his wife Christina. Loving brother-inlaw of Suzanne 
 WEIL--Stephen, an internationally recognized leader and mentor in the field of museum management, died on Tuesday, August 9, 2005, at the Washington Home Hospice. He is survived by his wife, Wendy Luke, and by children Rachel Weil of Ithaca, NY, David Weil of Providence, RI, and Michael Wei
 BERGER--Dennis W., DDS. Died peacefully on August 9 at his home in Spring Valley, NY. He is survived by his beloved wife Gloria, devoted son Jeffrey & his wife Rachel, daughter Lauren and her husband Scott and cherished grandchildren Michelle, Jason and Matthew.       
 GALLAGHER--Cornelius. Kathryn Carey Gallagher announces with great sadness the death of her devoted husband, Cornelius Gallagher on August 11, 2005. He was born March 26, 1928 in New York City. He graduated from Harvard University and was subsequently employed by Douglas Elliman. He served 
 GANG--Lawrence. Our heartfelt condolences to his sister Carolyn and his soulmate Lyn Segal. We will miss him greatly. Denise and Larry Wohl       
 HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became a
 JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Trustees and International Advisory Council of the American University of Beirut deeply mourn the death of Peter Jennings. Peter was a long-standing and valuable member of the AUB International Advisory Council, providing exceptional support and wise counsel to
 KATZ--David. The families of Randolph Braham and Margaret Marcus mourn the passing of their uncle, David Katz, and share the pain and sorrow of his widow, our aunt Marge, and her children, Judy and Glen Rence. KATZ--David. Uncle Dave, we will miss you. Steven, Mariko, Jacob and Etha
 McNAMARA--Kevin. A genius with color and beauty, but humble regarding his ability and success. Generous, charming, entertaining, elegant and one-of-a-kind. He leaves us with endless joyful memories. A devoted friend. Bates Westerberg       
 MEYER--Theodor Henry, 77, passed away after a short but bravely fought battle with cancer at New York-Presbyterian Hospital on August 10. Born in Bern, Switzerland, he attended Le Rosey in Rolle, and lived in Bern and Puttenham, England. Beloved husband for forty years of Claire Meyer, step
 SILZER--Parker W. Jr. Parker Waite Silzer Jr., 77, of Pound Ridge, New York died peacefully on August 10, 2005, after a long illness. Mr. Silzer was born in Plainfield, New Jersey. He was the son of Eunice Holman Case and Parker Silzer, and the grandson of Henrietta and Governor George S. S
 WEIL--Stephen, an internationally recognized leader and mentor in the field of museum management, died on Tuesday, August 9, 2005, at the Washington Home Hospice. He is survived by his wife, Wendy Luke, and by children Rachel Weil of Ithaca, NY, David Weil of Providence, RI, and Michael Wei
 WEINER--Max. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing on August 6, of Max Weiner, a violinist of the Philharmonic from 1946 to 1994. Mr. Weiner performed with the Pittsburgh, Detroit, and Chicago symphonies before joining the Philharmonic. We extend condolences to his wife, Carolyn, and
 WIEDEMAN--J. Frank. June 28, 1915 - August 6, 2005. Born June 28, 1915 in Bronxville, NY, Frank grew up in W. Englewood, NJ, graduated from Teaneck HS and obtained his BA degree from NYU in 1941. He served four years in the U.S. Navy during WWII achieving rank of Lieutenant. Frank worked fo
 Philip J. Klass, an electrical engineer and aviation editor who earned the nickname Sherlock Holmes of U.F.O.'s for his assiduous, acidic debunking of flying saucers and those who claim to see them, died Tuesday at his home in Merritt Island, Fla. The cause was prostate cancer, Rosa
 Ted Radcliffe, one of the last surviving Negro leagues stars, whose prowess on the pitching mound and behind the plate inspired Damon Runyon to nickname him Double Duty, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 103. The cause was complications from cancer, said the Chicago White Sox, who i
 BUCHBAND--G. Peter, 76, of Port Washington and Southampton, LI, died on August 12, 2005 of complications from multiple myeloma. Devoted husband of 43 years of Wally Goldstein Buchband. Loving father of Richard (Betsy) and William (Jean). Adoring grandfather of Hannah, Celia, Ethan, Mia and 
 HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became a
 KAPLAN--Hon. Harry V. Died in his Florida home on August 12, 2005. A long-time resident of Sea Gate, Brooklyn, N.Y. He leaves his wife Yetta, daughter Linda Weis, son Gerald and wife Jerilyn, seven grandchildren and four great grandchildren. A graduate of Saint John's Law School, he was adm
 MARTON--Edwin A. 85, died peacefully at home on August 12, 2005. His legacy is the lasting love he shared with wife Joan, Betty Levin, and Gerry Simon; children David, Betty, Tom, and Carol, and spouses Teri, Jerry, Danit, and Angela; grandchildren Julia, Sylvia, Benjamin, Joanna, Adam, Son
 MEYER -- Theodor Henry. We'll always remember Teddy's engaging smile and dry wit. A gentleman of the highest order, he remains in our hearts. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Claire. With love, Marjorie, Linda, Carol and Mary       
 BAST--Dr. Charles William. Of Sea Island, GA died Monday, August 8, 2005 at Candler Hospital in Savannah, GA after a brief illness. Dr. Bast was an U.S. Army Veteran of WWII. A memorial service will be held at 11 a.m. Monday, August 15, at Christ Church Frederica, St. Simons Island, GA with
 BERGER--Norman, 79. Of Manhattan, beloved husband of Adele Addison Berger, died August 1, 2005 after a long illness. Associated with New York University School of Medicine and Post-Graduate Medical School, he was a Senior Research Scientist and Clinical Professor of Prosthetics-Orthotics ed
 BUCHANAN -- Robert E. Robert ''Buck'' Buchanan, former Executive Vice President of J. Walter Thompson advertising agency, died July 13, at his home in Sag Harbor, NY, at the age of 86. He held a bachelor's and master's degree from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University a
 BUCHBAND--G. Peter, 76, of Port Washington and Southampton, LI, died on August 12, 2005 of complications from multiple myeloma. Devoted husband of 43 years of Wally Goldstein Buchband. Loving father of Richard (Betsy) and William (Jean). Adoring grandfather of Hannah, Celia, Ethan, Mia and 
 CHEN--Chi, internationally known watercolorist, died August 4, after a long and full life in both China and the USA. Chen Chi's interest in Western art began early and it became his life's work to bring together the sensibilities of the East and the West in his paintings. A poet and a philo
 DETMOLD--George Ernst. 88 died August 12, 2005 at home in St. Augustine, FL. Born February 18, 1917, in New York City, he was the son of George Justus and Mabel Porter Detmold. A 1938 graduate of Cornell University, where he captained the fencing team and coached its saber men, he earned th
 FRIEDMAN--Jack N. Beloved husband of Lorraine; father of Lynne, Mitchell and Freddy; and grandfather of Jessica, Jack, Alex, Nick, Caity, Emma, Molly and Tom. We will all miss him. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC.       
 GALLAGHER--Cornelius. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Gallagher family on the passing on August 11, 2005, of our Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Cornelius Gallagher, a distinguished New York City real estate broker for more 
 GOLDENBERG -- Bernard. August 12, 1912--August 9, 2005. Born in NYC, a graduate of Boys High School and CCNY, a veteran of World War II, and a dedicated teacher of mathematics at Erasmus Hall High School. He is survived by Irene, his beloved wife of 67 years, his children Robert (Nina Wacho
 GOTSIS--Constantine A., M.D. The staff and patients of the Division of Substance Abuse, Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, are deeply saddened by the loss of our former medical director and a founding member of our Division, Constantin
 GROEL--Campbell Clark Jr. Of Vero Beach and Martha's Vineyard, died on August 11, 2005, in Royal Palm Convalescent Center, Vero Beach, FL, after a brief illness. He was born February 16, 1914, in Orange, NJ. Campbell was a graduate of Lawrenceville Academy and Princeton University class of 
 HUNT--E. Ritchie. Age 77, of Brooklyn, died suddenly on July 3, 2005. He is survived by his brother, John Hunt of Houston, TX, and nieces and nephews in Massachusetts, Maine, Texas and California. A graduate of Dartmouth in 1949, predeceased by his wife, Elizabeth Everett Hunt in 1979. A me
 JENNINGS--Peter. On behalf of America's YMCAs, we note with profound sorrow the passing of Peter Jennings, outstanding journalist, advocate and friend, whose participation in our 150th anniversary celebrations was so deeply appreciated. His devotion to children and families in this country 
 KAPLAN--Hon. Harry V. Died in his Florida home on August 12, 2005. A long-time resident of Sea Gate, Brooklyn, N.Y. He leaves his wife Yetta, daughter Linda Weis, son Gerald and wife Jerilyn, seven grandchildren and four great grandchildren. A graduate of Saint John's Law School, he was adm
 LICHTENSTEIN--Samuel. The firm S/L/C/E Architects mourns the passing of our founder, Sam Lichtenstein. We will always treasure his outstanding performance in over fifty years as Senior Partner. Our condolences to his sons, Eric and Robert.       
 MARTON--Edwin A. 85, died peacefully at home on August 12, 2005. His legacy is the lasting love he shared with wife Joan, Betty Levin, and Gerry Simon; children David, Betty, Tom, and Carol, and spouses Teri, Jerry, Danit, and Angela; grandchildren Julia, Sylvia, Benjamin, Joanna, Adam, Son
 MORILLAS--Raul ''Buck'', of NYC, died on July 13. Raul was born in Havana in 1956 and grew up in Maplewood, NJ. He graduated from Rhode Island School of Design with a BFA in Interior Design in '78 and a Bachelor's in Landscape Architecture in '79. Raul was head of the Interior Design Dept. 
 PASCALE--Albert J., MD, of Garden City, NY and Candlewood Isle, New Fairfield, Ct. passed away on August 11, 2005 after fighting prostate cancer. He died Thursday at his home on Candlewood Isle. He is survived by his wife Mary of 56 years and their children A.J., Duane, Gordon, Vicki, Melis
 SCHWARTZ--Joel. Professor of History at Montclair State University, died Wednesday, August 10, 2005, of complications of leukemia. He was 62. Professor Schwartz received his BA, MA and PhD from the University of Chicago. He taught at Roosevelt University and the University of Illinois, Chic
 STEINER -- Lenard DeNeil, M.D., age 88, died on August 13, 2005. Longtime resident of Cedarshurst, Lawrence, and Manhattan, NY. Loving and much beloved husband of Elaine for 54 years. Always receptive, supportive, wise and deeply affectionate father of Andrea, Robert and James. Adored grand
 WILLIAMS--C. Roger. May 15, 1930--August 11, 2005. Died at home in Fairfield, CT. surrounded by his loving wife and children. Roger graduted from Princeton in 1954, after spending 3 years as a Army Airborne Ranger, (11th Airborne, 15th Ranger Company). He retired in 1990 from Mobil Corp as 
 WILLIAMSON--Frederick B. III. Of New Hope, PA. On August 6. A graduate of Lawrenceville School, he was in the 1941 class of Princeton University and the 5th Armored Division of the Army during World War II. President and later chairman of Goodall Rubber Company for many years, he was also o
 Walter J. McNerney, who oversaw the integration of Blue Cross and Blue Shield and gave shape to the Congressional debate leading to Medicare and Medicaid, died on July 29 at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 80. His death was announced by Northwestern University, where he retired in
 Alexander Kossiakoff, a chemist and missile scientist who helped develop radar-guided missiles for Navy ships and later supervised the building of satellites and radar systems for the Defense Department, died Aug. 6 in a hospital in Maryland. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, 
 Dr. Conrad M. Riley, a versatile pediatrician who helped describe Riley-Day syndrome, a rare genetic childhood disorder that harms the nervous system and often leads to early death, died on July 5 at the University of Colorado Hospital in Denver. He was 91. The cause was an aortic a
 Julian C. Stanley, a psychologist and champion of academically gifted children who helped promote testing nationwide to identify promising students and then lobbied for special programs to challenge them, died on Friday in a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 87. The cause was pneumon
 BJORNSON--Carroll Norman. Of 34 East Lyon Farm Drive, Greenwich, CT, NYC, and Ft. Lauderdale, FL, on August 10, 2005. He is survived by his wife, Edith McBride Cameron Bjornson, and daughter, Lisa Carol Bjornson Wolf of Santa Barbara, CA. A son, Karl Cameron Bjornson, is deceased. A memoria
 FRIEDMAN--Jack N. Beloved husband of Lorraine; father of Lynne, Mitchell and Freddy; and grandfather of Jessica, Jack, Alex, Nick, Caity, Emma, Molly and Tom. We will all miss him. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC.       
 LANDMAN--Amos, of New York and West Cornwall, CT, died Sunday morning of cancer at age 90. A journalist, public relations executive and World War II veteran, he was a reporter for the Daily Mirror and PM and a radio and newspaper correspondent in China from 1948 to '50. He retired in 1985 a
 LARSON--Jack Everett. 88, of NYC, formerly of Union, CT, and Ware, MA, died Friday, August 12, 2005. The son of the late Frank O. and Beulah E. Larson of Tulsa, OK, he was a graduate of the Principia Upper School, the University of Paris and George Washington University. A First Lieutenant 
 SAGER--Dr. Clifford Julius. Died on August 13th at the age of 88 at Southampton Hospital, Southampton, NY from cardiac arrest. He leaves his wife, Anne; four children from previous marriages, Barbara Sager, Dr. Philip Sager, Rebecca Sager Riviere and Anthony Sager; two grandchildren, Elissa
 STEINER -- Lenard DeNeil, M.D., age 88, died on August 13, 2005. Longtime resident of Cedarhurst, Lawrence, and Manhattan, NY. Loving and much beloved husband of Elaine for 54 years. Receptive, supportive, wise and affectionate father of Andrea, Robert and James. Adored grandfather of Simon
 WEISER--Hy. Age 88, of Bayside, passed away quickly. Survived by his wife Bertha, his children Leslie and Jay and brother Isidore. Services at Sinai Chapel, 162-05 Horace Harding Expwy, Fresh Meadows, Monday, August 15, at 1:15 pm. Contributions to NY Hospital Funds for Medicine.       
 Stephen Edward Weil, a legal expert in the arts and a museum administrator long associated with the Smithsonian Institution, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 77. The cause was liver failure, his family said. A lawyer by training and a former official of the Whitney Muse
 David Teitelbaum, a prominent corporate lawyer who helped found the Brooklyn Philharmonic in 1954 and was its first president, died on Aug. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 98. Mr. Teitelbaum's family confirmed the death. A partner in the New York law firm Donovan, Leisure
 David Loeb Weiss, a retired proofreader at The New York Times who directed the award-winning 1980 documentary film ''Farewell, Etaoin Shrdlu,'' which chronicled the last, clangorous night that the paper was put out using hot-metal type, died on Thursday at his home in San Diego. He was in h
 Joseph J. Kovach, a former deputy managing editor of The Daily News, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his brother, Bill Kovach. Mr. Kovach worked for The News from 1963 
 ADISE--Herbert. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 CLARKE--Rev. Thomas Emmett, S.J. Survived by his loving brothers Charles and Raymond. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at Murray Weigel Hall, at Fordham University, Wednesday from 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at Loyola Hall Chapel on Thursday at 11 AM. For information con
 COHEN--Allen ''Chic''. Of Boca Raton, FL. The entire Harrison and Sikora families join Anita and Robbie and his family in mourning the loss of our dearest friend Allen ''Chic'' Cohen. Our families have been more than friends for over 60 years. He will be missed by us all. Irene and Marvin H
 FRIEDMAN--Jack N. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Jack N. Friedman. His support of the Jewish people and our community will serve as an inspiration and example to all who knew and loved him for g
 HARMS--Carl. The officers, trustees, staff and the members of the Equity-League Pension and Health Trust Funds mourn the loss of our esteemed co-chairman and founding member of The Funds, Carl Harms. He was respected and beloved by all of his associates.       
 LEVY--Murray. the Board of Directors and staff of the JCC of Mid-Westchester mourn the loss of our Founding President, Murray Levy. Murray was an energetic, vibrant and magnetic leader. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Anne and their family.       
 OSTERMAN--Melvin H., 70, of Delmar, New York died suddenly on Sunday, August 14, 2005. He was born in NYC on September 26, 1934, son of the late Melvin H. Osterman Sr. & Selma Lenz Osterman. Melvin was a graduate of Cornell University and the Cornell Law School. He was a founding partner of
 POSNER--Donald. Ailsa Mellon Bruce Professor at the Institute of Fine Arts, NYU. He served on the faculty from 1962, and as Deputy Director 1983-2002. The Institute mourns the loss of a brilliant art historian, dedicated teacher, and dear friend, and extends heartfelt condolences to his dau
 RIBAUDO--Michael. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of University Dean, Michael Ribaudo, one of the College's great friends and supporters. He recognized our goals and ambitions and helped to advance them, particularly in academic computing and technology. Christoph M. Kimmich, Pres. Robe
 SAGER--Dr. Clifford Julius. Died on August 13th at the age of 88 at Southampton Hospital, Southampton, NY from cardiac arrest. He leaves his wife, Anne; four children from previous marriages, Barbara Sager, Dr. Philip Sager, Rebecca Sager Riviere and Anthony Sager; two grandchildren, Elissa
 Sperry Andrews, a painter who with his wife, Doris Bass Andrews, helped preserve the home of the influential American artist Julian Alden Weir as a national park, died on July 14 in Danbury, Conn. He was 87 and lived at the Weir farmhouse in Ridgefield, Conn. The cause was pneumonia
 ALDERMAN - Wilbur, sur vived by his adoring wife Betty (Goold) and loving children Richard and Jan; grandson Willie; his step-children Andrew, John and Neil; grandchildren Adam and Morgan. Funeral service will be Thursday, August 18, 2005, at 10am at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home,
 BRANCHE--Dr. Matthew Davidson. A longtime resident of Westchester, passed away at his home in Hartsdale, NY on Saturday, August 13, 2005. He was born on October 30th, 1927 in Tuskegee, AL and was one of three children born to Dr. George Clayton Branche and Lillian Vester Davidson. He was a 
 COHEN--Allen ''Chic''. Of Boca Raton, FL. The entire Harrison and Sikora families join Anita and Robbie and his family in mourning the loss of our dearest friend Allen ''Chic'' Cohen. Our families have been more than friends for over 60 years. He will be missed by us all. Irene and Marvin H
 ELDER--R. Duncan. 88, of Cold Spring Harbor, after a long illness, on August 14, 2005. Decorated Naval Veteran. Committed Community Leader. Founder of Paumanack Village. Beloved husband for over 64 years of Frances (nee) Noyes. Loving father of Robert D. (Betsy), Sarah M., and Alexander N. 
 FRIEDMAN--Jack. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the death of Jack N. Friedman. As a Museum Founder, his commitment to Holocaust remembrance and exceptional generosity helped sustain the growth and success of the Museum. The Museum extends its deepest condolences to his wi
 HILDT--John, 88. of Gates Mills, Ohio, died of complications from emphysema Saturday, August 13, 2005. Beloved husband of Dorothy (nee Tremaine); devoted father of Anne H. Geddes (Robert), J. Bradley Hildt (Elizabeth), David T. Hildt (Kate), Daniel T. Hildt, Cary H. Mathews (James) and step
 JUNGREIS--Theodore. 66, a mathematician, computer programmer and entrepreneur of North Woodmere, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on August 10. He is survived by his wife, Rosalie, his sister and brother-in-law, Susan and Fred Mattes, his three sons, Aaron, Irwin and Doug, three daughters
 KAMENOS--George C. Of Whitestone Queens, New York on August 16, 2005. Born January 15, 1921 in Kyrenia, Cyprus to the late Christodoulos and Anastasia Georgiou Kamenos. He served in the British Army during WWII, and he was the maitre'd for most of his career at The Hotel Carlyle in NYC. Bel
 MCCORMACK--Robert M. 74, of Normandy Beach, NJ, formerly of Short Hills, NJ on Sunday August 14, 2005. Retired Senior Vice President of Paine Webber of NYC and lifelong Cocoa Broker. Husband for 50 years to Eileen Nolan McCormack, father of Eileen M. Harte, Mark McCormack, Justin McCormack,
 MITTON--Stanley. Retired director for foreign emergency response of Church World Service of the National Council of Churches and a consultant to the U.N. Disaster Relief Organization, died August 15 at 85. A retired major in the British Army, he was the first director of foreign emergency o
 NAGLER--Arnold L., M.D., Ph.D. Age 72, died peacefully on August 11, 2005. Beloved husband of Rosalie, loving father of Stephen M. Nagler, M.D., and Melissa and Andrew Kaufman, adoring grandfather of Madeline and Matthew. He is also survived by his sisters Mollie and Nora, brothers-in-law W
 O'LEARY -- Reverend Wil liam R., S.J. A member of the St. Peter's Prep Jesuit Community, Jersey City. Died on Monday, August 15, 2005. He is the dear brother of Kathleen Flanagan, Daniel O'Leary, Jr., and Richard O'Leary. Also survived by 11 nieces and nephews and three grand nephews. Visit
 POSNER--Donald. Ailsa Mellon Bruce Professor at the Institute of Fine Arts, NYU. He served on the faculty from 1962, and as Deputy Director 1983-2002. The Institute mourns the loss of a brilliant art historian, dedicated teacher, and dear friend, and extends heartfelt condolences to his dau
 SPERBER--Nathan, 86, died in Manchester, VT, after a courageous and fully livedlife. Born in New York City on May 4, 1919, he graduated from City College and received a PhD from the University of Minnesota. He retired from Schering-Plough Corporation as a Vice-President after thirty-seven y
 WELLINGTON--Herbert G. Jr. of Locust Valley, NY, on August 15, 2005, age 85. WWII Veteran, beloved husband of Patricia. Father of Charles, James and William. Grandfather of Robin, Michael, James and Emily. Service and interment private. WELLINGTON--Herbert G., Jr. The Board of Direc
 FRANK--Leo. August 17, 1915. Lynched 90 years ago today. by an anti-Semitic mob in Marietta, Ga. Falsely accused and convicted of murder in 1913, ADL's campaign to exonerate Frank led to a posthumous pardon in 1986, seventy-three years after his conviction. He will always be remembered. Ant
 Ted Croner, whose rigorously blurry photographs of New York at night in the 1940's epitomized the film noir energy of a city that never sleeps, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 82. He died of natural causes, said Margit Erb of the Howard Greenberg Gallery, which represents him.  
 Armand S. Deutsch, a child of privilege who escaped becoming the victim of one of the 20th century's most celebrated crimes and lived on to befriend many of its most celebrated personalities as a movie producer and Hollywood bon vivant, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 92 and lived i
 Brother Roger, the Swiss Protestant theologian who in 1940 founded a community of monks in Taiz, in eastern France, that became a worldwide ecumenical movement, died there on Tuesday. He was 90. Brother Roger was stabbed in the throat during an evening service in his church by a w
 BREE--Warren H. 74, of West Palm Beach, FL, beloved husband of Violet Bree, died on August 16, 2005. Mr. Bree was the Chief Investment Officer and a Senior Portfolio Manager of WHB/Wolverine Asset Management, Inc., a registered investment advisory firm that he founded in New York City in 19
 ELDER--Duncan. It is with profound sorrow that Citizens Housing and Planning Council marks the passing of Duncan Elder, the esteemed former Chairman of our Board of Directors. We will sorely miss his clarity of vision, dedication to affordable housing, and loyalty to CHPC. Our deepest sympa
 HERMAN--Peter S. Of New York and Sag Harbor. Dedicated student of the law, advocate and devoted golfer. Beloved husband of Susan, father of David and Michael, and brother of Edith. Services Plaza Jewish Chapel, Friday, August 19 at 9:15 A.M. $(6$) HERMAN--Peter S. The law fi
 KAHN--Murray L., age 84, died at home on August 16, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Ada Kahn. Devoted father of Cynthia, Mitch and Claudia, grandfather to Alexis and Jason and father-in-law to Denise and Bruce, brother to Selma Gorman and the late Ernest Kahn. We mourn the loss of our bra
 PODELL--Bertram, Honorable. On August 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Bunny. Loving father of Stephen, Ellen and Daniel, Gary and Jill. Dear brother of Dr. Paul and Michelle and Herbert and Lorraine. Son-inlaw of Celia Posen. Brotherin-law of Dr. Jack Posen and Carol. Adoring grandfather of He
 ROSEN--Sumner M. Born June 17 1923, died peacefully on August 17, 2005 at home, surrounded by his family, after a brief but valiant battle with cancer. The funeral will be Friday August 19, 11:30AM, Plaza Memorial, 630 Amsterdam Ave at 90th Street. Memorial contributions may be sent to B'na
 SCHWARTZ--Larry. Age 75, of Englewood, NJ died Friday, August 12, 2005. After graduating Stuyvesant High School and serving in the army, he received his BA from the University at Buffalo and his MSW from the University of Connecticut. He taught in the Department of Psychiatry at Flower 5th 
 TEITELBAUM--David. The Brooklyn Philharmonic Board of Trustees, Musicians and Administration mourn the loss of a founding father, David Teitelbaum, and extend deepest sympathy to his family.       
 Bertram L. Podell, a lawyer and three-term Democratic representative from Brooklyn whose conflict-of-interest trial brought Rudolph W. Giuliani to public notice as a young prosecutor in 1974, died of kidney failure on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived on the
 John N. Bahcall, an astrophysicist who helped prove what makes the sun shine and worked behind the scenes in Washington for more than three decades to help ensure the construction and survival of the Hubble Space Telescope, died on Wednesday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. H
 Manfred Korfmann, a German archaeologist whose excavations revived research and debate about ancient Troy, the besieged Bronze Age city that Homer immortalized in ''The Iliad,'' died Aug. 11 at his home near Tbingen, Germany. He was 63. His death was reported by the University of 
 BELL--Paul Lewis. A lover of life and laughter, Paul Lewis Bell, 74, of Ocean Ridge, FL. passed away on August 10, 2005. The most glorious red sunset fitting to a passionate fisherman followed. Paul was born in Chestnut Hill, PA on December 28, 1930. He attended St. Georges School in Newpor
 BOELZNER--Gordon. Peter Martins and the dancers, musicians, staff and Board of Directors of New York City Ballet deeply mourn the passing of Gordon Boelzner, a pillar of the Company for over 45 years. Gordon joined the Company as a rehearsal pianist and later became a conductor and an accla
 ELDER--R. Duncan. 88, of Cold Spring Harbor, after a long illness, on August 14, 2005. Beloved husband for over 64 years of Frances (nee) Noyes. Loving father of Robert D. (Betsy), Sarah M, and Alexander N. (Jacki). Adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Duncan S, Molly, Henry and Angus. Housing v
 FAUST--Richard L. Died August 11, 2005. Survived by his brother Carl and his nephews Carlon, Donald and Michael. For service arrangements call: 914-661-2222       
 FRIEDMAN--Jack N. It is with great sadness that the Inner City Scholarship Fund family notes the passing of a longtime member of our Board of Trustees and Executive Council. Our hearts go out to his wife, Lorraine, his three children, and a host of grandchildren in this time of loss. His de
 HERMAN--Peter S. The Board of Directors and the Shareholders of The Cornwall mourn the untimely passing of our friend, neighbor and longtime board member. We will all miss his prodigious intelligence and humor. His tireless efforts on behalf of our building will be hard to replace. We exten
 PODELL--Bertram, Honorable. On August 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Bunny. Loving father of Stephen, Ellen and Daniel, Gary and Jill. Dear brother of Dr. Paul and Michelle and Herbert and Lorraine. Son-inlaw of Celia Posen. Brotherin-law of Dr. Jack Posen and Carol. Adoring grandfather of He
 ROSEN--Sumner, Dr. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work record with sorrow the death of Dr. Sumner Rosen on August 17, 2005. A tenured distinguished Professor, social activist, a columnist, advocate of progressive social polic
 SALNY -- Jerome E. (89) peacefully at home on August 17th of Wayne, NJ and Paris, France. Survived by his wife of 32 years, Abbie nee Feinstein. Father-in-law of Charles and Patricia Wolfrum of Newton, NJ. Grandfather of Rachel and Ryan Wolfrum. Father of Lisa Salny Wolfrum of Andover, NJ. 
 STONE--David. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses condolences to our dear and esteemed friend, Richard Stone, on the loss of his beloved brother David. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and pray that the entire Stone family will be comforted among th
 WELLS--Robert L. 88, graduate of University of Rochester and Cal Tech, Westinghouse executive for 40 years, died August 12 in Kennett Square, PA, survived by his wife, four children and four grandchildren.       
 Alexander Golitzen, an Academy Award-winning art director and production designer who for 40 years made entire civilizations, from shimmering Old World cities to tawdry Old West towns, rise on the back lots of Hollywood, died on July 26 in San Diego. He was in his late 90's and had lived in
 Aleksandr Gomelsky, the patriarch of Soviet basketball and coach of the Soviet men's team that won the 1988 Olympic gold medal, died Tuesday at a hospital in Moscow. He was 77. His death was announced by the Central Army basketball club of Moscow, which he coached from 1966 to 1988. Gomelsk
 BALBERG--Clark. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Clark Balberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Lauren and family. Mark Kirschner President       
 CRONER--Ted. Great friend whose caring insights will be dearly missed; brilliant artist and great storyteller. Sincere condolences to family, especially Catherine, of whom he was most proud. Alan Braverman       
 McALEER--Francis (Frank). Died peacefully at his home on August 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Herlihy) for 48 years. Devoted father of Karen Conti of Sherman, CT., Ann Marie of Roslindale, MA. and Eileen McAleerGorman of New York City, and the late Francis McAleer, Jr. Brother to Th
 PODELL -- Bertram. BLDG Management mourns the loss of a dear friend and business colleague. The Goldman family has many wonderful memories of Bert Podell. Our condolences and heartfelt sympathy is with Bunny, Stephen, Ellen and Dan, Gary and Jill. We will all miss his wisdom, wit and passio
 Theodore F. Shaker, a former chairman and chief executive of the Arbitron Ratings Company, died on Wednesday in New Canaan, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause was complications of a fractured hip, his family said; he also had Parkinson's disease. Mr. Shaker
 Alan Fredericks, a travel writer and editor who began his career as the host of a popular doo-wop radio show in New York City, died on July 31 at his home in Old Bridge, N.J. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his son Todd. Mr. Fredericks was the editor of Travel Weekly, 
 Franois Dalle, a prominent French industrialist who guided L'Oral in the years it became a worldwide cosmetics empire, died in Geneva, where he lived, on Aug. 9. He was 87. His death was confirmed by L'Oral's headquarters in Paris. Mr. Dalle took over the company from 
 BEITER--John F. II, son of Laraine and Jack Beiter, died suddenly of heart failure, August 10, on the island of Mykonos, Greece. John was Managing Director of Resolution Partners LLC., in New York City. John was born in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania. His schooling started in King of Prussia, P
 BELL--Paul Lewis.A lover of life and laughter, Paul Lewis Bell, 74, of Ocean Ridge, FL. passed away on August 10, 2005. The most glorious red sunset fitting to a passionate fisherman followed. Paul was born in Chestnut Hill, PA on December 28, 1930. He attended St. Georges School in Newport
 COHEN--Irving E. On August 19th, 2005, at age 58. Beloved husband of Ellen Rubin; loving father of Jonathan Cohen; devoted son of Shirley Prider and the late Daniel Cohen; dear brother of Martin and Sally Cohen; and adored uncle of Dana and Zachary Cohen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 DUFFY--John Francis Vincent ''Jack''. Born May 8, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY, died July 10, 2005 in Pasadena, CA, following a brief illness. He was named for Uncle John Vincent Duffy. He was educated by the Sisters of Mercy at St. Catherine's Grammar School, the Jesuits at Fordham Prep, and the C
 FASEL--George. Dad, you have left behind three children who share your love of books, movies, spicy food and sports. We miss you. Love, Kimberley, Marion and Mason (PS--Ethan and Marty are searching for you.) $(6$) FASEL--George. Author, essayist and film critic died on Augu
 FAUST -- Richard L. The American Language Program of Columbia University mourns the loss of this beloved colleague and friend. He will be greatly missed.       
 FISHER--Marvin J. Died at age 78 on August 16 following a long illness in New York City. He was the owner and president for more than 50 years of Charles Fisher & Sons Dental Lab Inc. Beloved husband of Elaine Bernstein Fisher, loving father of Dawn Fisher Braulis, Gary Fisher and Julie Fis
 FLEMING--Peter V., M.D. Born in 1950 in Czechoslovakia, died August 9, 2005 in New York of pancreatic cancer. His road to immigration at age 16 took him to Tunisia, then to Paris, finally to New York. With knowledge only of his native language his intelligence and diligence enabled him stud
 GOODYEAR--Austin. 85, died at his home in West Brooklyn, ME of bladder cancer August 14. Mr. Goodyear purchased Ellsworth Builders Supply in 1970. Under his leadership, the company grew from one store to ten branches, stretching along the Maine coast from Calais to Rockland. He was predecea
 McALEER--Francis (Frank). Died peacefully at his home on August 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann (nee Herlihy) for 48 years. Devoted father of Karen Conti of Sherman, CT., Ann Marie of Roslindale, MA. and Eileen McAleerGorman of New York City, and the late Francis McAleer, Jr. Brother to Th
 NAGEL--Abraham. He was a child of the Depression who knew hunger yet became a symbol of generosity. A funeral director at Isidor Nagel and Sons, Inc., his success was based on his sterling reputation for competence, honesty, and sensitivity. He was the beloved patriarch of four generations 
 OSWALD--David S. 79, of Fort Lauderdale, FL, formerly of New York City and Southampton, Long Island. Died August 17, 2005. Son of Edward & Madeline Statton Oswald of Hagerstown, MD. Survived by life partner of 41 years George C. Castleman of Fort Lauderdale. Memorial donations in his name g
 PODELL--Bertram. My dearly beloved Bert, It's been so many years, I don't know where to begin. No one ever had a better life. I will always cherish the fabulous times we had. Our accomplishments together. Our creation of our 3 wonderful children. Fiftytwo years. We had so much fun together,
 SILVERMAN--Sol. Died August 16, 2005 in West Palm Beach, FL. Longtime labor leader and political activist with AFSCME and the United Furniture Workers Union in New York and in Florida for many years after retirement. An inspirational orator, a truly funny man, a gifted storyteller, he remai
 TRICARICO -- Vito J. Ar chitect, age 76, passed away early Friday afternoon. Vito is remembered with great love by his children and grandchildren. Friends are invited to Martin Gleason Funeral Home, 36-46 Bell Blvd, Bayside, NY 11361, Sunday, 2-5 and 7-10 pm, Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm.       
 WEINBLATT--Myron ''Mike.'' On August 18, 2005. Served as President of NBC Entertainment, Showtime/The Movie Channel, Inc., and Multimedia Entertainment. Executive Vice President of the Board of The League for the Hard of Hearing. Beloved husband of Annie, devoted father of Marc and Allison,
 BRUGGEMANN--Robert A. 56. Formerly of Weston and Norwalk, CT, died peacefully Saturday, August 13 at his home in Peru, VT surrounded by his family. Born in Teaneck NJ on April 24, 1949, the son of Arnold and Rita Bruggemann. Bob was a devoted father and the President of A.E. Bruggemann & Co
 FREELANDER--Robert. The Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation extends condolences to its esteemed member, Rabbi Daniel Freelander, his wife, Elyse, and the entire family upon the passing of the family patriarch, Robert Freelander. May his memory be a blessing. Matthew Lazar, Fou
 TOMASHEFSKY--Philip, 81, of Somers, NY, died of respiratory failure, August 15. Beloved to wife Rhoda (37 years), sons Steven and Michael and sister Sondra. Phil attended Erasmus Hall and City College and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from NYU. During his career as a research biochemist at
 Tonino Delli Colli, a prolific and versatile cinematographer whose images illuminated the work of many of Italy's most famous filmmakers, died on Tuesday at his home in Rome. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Stefano. In a career that included more than 
 Gordon Boelzner, who rose from rehearsal pianist at New York City Ballet to become the company's music director, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. Mr. Boelzner had had a heart bypass operation in recent years, and a City Ballet spokeswoman said the cause of deat
 Keter Betts, a veteran jazz bassist who spent more than two decades accompanying Ella Fitzgerald and played a role in bringing the bossa nova to the United States, died on Aug. 6 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77. His death was confirmed by McGuire Funeral Services in Wash
 ARDIZZONE--Robert L. On August 17, 2005, of West Cornwall, CT and NYC. Longtime companion of Pamela A. Jones. He leaves numerous cousins to mourn his passing. Bob will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A graduate of The College of The Holy Cross and New York University. He ser
 COHEN--Irving E. On August 19th, 2005, at age 58. Beloved husband of Ellen Rubin; loving father of Jonathan Cohen; devoted son of Shirley Prider and the late Daniel Cohen; dear brother of Martin and Sally Cohen; and adored uncle of Dana and Zachary Cohen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076
 LEKAREW--Leonard. 74, of Oakland Park, FL, formerly of St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands, and Glen Head, NY, passed away August 20th, 2005. Beloved lifetime companion of 40 years to George Moskowitz. Cherished brother of Gerald and Gladys Lekarew. Adored uncle of Carol and Mark. He was a distin
 LISS--Joseph Hyman (age 88). Of Rockville, MD, passed away on Friday, August 19, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife Miriam; devoted daughter Marsha and cherished grandchildren Joel and Samuel. Funeral services will be held on Monday, August 22, 2pm, at Congregation Beth El in Bethesda
 MILLER--Ruth. The Officers Board and Staff of The Jewish Community Relations Council mourn the loss of Ruth Miller, mother of our esteemed Executive Vice President & CEO, Michael Miller and widow of our founder, Rabbi Israel Miller. Michael will be sitting shiva in Jerusalem and in Teaneck,
 OLSON--James C. PhD, 88, president of the University of Missouri (1976-1984) and chancellor of the University of Missouri - Kansas City (1968-1976), died August 17. He is survived by his wife, Vera, and daughters Elizabeth Goldring Piene of Groton, Mass, and Sarah Olson of Rhinebeck, NY. A 
 TRICARICO -- Vito J. Ar chitect, age 76, passed away early Friday afternoon. Vito is remembered with great love by his children and grandchildren. Friends are invited to Martin Gleason Funeral Home, 36-46 Bell Blvd, Bayside, NY 11361, Sunday, 2-5 and 7-10 pm, Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm.       
 ARDIZZONE--Robert L. On August 17, 2005, of West Cornwall, CT and NYC. Longtime companion of Pamela A. Jones. He leaves numerous cousins to mourn his passing. Bob will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. A graduate of The College of The Holy Cross and New York University. He ser
 BROJDO--Jascha. Noted designer and manufacturer of award-winning Georges Briard giftware, died July 30 in New York City, at 88. Born in Russia, he served in the U.S. Army throughout World War II. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife, Bronya (nee Marks). Services were private.       
 COLMAN--Seymour. On August 21, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Jane Colman. Devoted father of Cathy Colman and Peter Colman and his wife Rose. Cherished grandfather of Hillary and Molly and great-grandfather of Logan and Madison. Fond brother of Nancy Skall and the late Ed Clarke. Service
 DONEY--John P., 75, of Bonita Springs, FL, died Friday, August 19, 2005, after a brief illness. Born in Danville, IL., to the late Edward James and Beatrice Doney, he was a graduate of Notre Dame University with a Master's Degree in Economics from Trinity University in CT, an officer in the
 FAULKNER--Stanley. Beloved father, grandfather, uncle and brother died quietly on August 22 at the age of 96. His three children, two daughters-in-law, six grandchildren and sister survive him. On February 1, 1947 the Amsterdam News, commenting on the admission of Black persons to the Grand
 FRIEDMAN--Jack N. On behalf of the Board of Directors, volunteers, consumers and families of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, we offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of Jack N. Friedman. Jack was a long time friend and supporter who never said no but gave generously whenever
 LISS--Joseph. We mourn the loss of one of Israel's most passionate supporters. Founder, Treasurer and Vice President of The American Jewish League For Israel. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Miriam, and daughter, Marsha. May his memory be a blessing. Dr. Martin L. Kalmanson National Pr
 NYHUS--Paul Luther. 70, former Bowdoin College Dean of Students and Dean of the College, and Frank Andrew Munsey Professor of History Emeritus, died at his home in Brunswick, Maine, on August 17, of brain cancer. After graduating from Augsburg College in Minneapolis, he studied for a year a
 PITTA--Vito J. November 29, 1926 to August 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Albertina (deceased) and father of Vincent, Tina Marie Bauman, and Debra Ward. Beloved father-in-law of Antoinette Pitta and Peter Ward. Loving and adored grandfather (''PopPop'') of Vito, Ralph and Albertina Pitta; Mat
 R. Frederic Fisher, a maritime and conservation lawyer who was a co-founder of Earthjustice, a public-interest law firm in San Francisco pledged to the defense of the environment, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Inverness, Calif. He was 68. The cause was cancer, the organization said
 Robert Moog, the creator of the electronic music synthesizer that bears his name and that became ubiquitous among experimental composers as well as rock musicians in the 1960's and 70's, died on Sunday at his home in Asheville, N.C. He was 71. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor
 Sumner M. Rosen, a prominent political economist and a longtime advocate of social policies to benefit working people, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. At his death, Dr. Rosen was emeritus professor at the
 Abraham S. Goldstein, a former dean of Yale Law School, died on Saturday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 80. His death was announced by Yale University, where he had taken emeritus status at the end of the academic year. It said the cause was a heart attack. An exper
 Donald H. Shively, a noted scholar of Japanese literature and culture whose work helped forge the emerging discipline of Japanese studies in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Aug. 13 in Oakland, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was complic
 Lloyd Meeds, a seven-term House member from Washington State who helped enact watershed education legislation, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Church Creek, Md. He was 77. The cause of his death was cancer, according to a statement from his law firm. During his 14 years in Co
 BROWN--Frederick Robert, M.D. Of West Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Manhasset, N.Y., on August 23, 2005 at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Cynthia Barnett Brown. Devoted father of Pamela Brown-Inz, Alice Brown and Melissa Brown, and father-inlaw of Steven Brown-Inz and David Siegel. Lovi
 CHAPPELL -- George She pard III, 70 died August 20 in Chicago, IL. Mr. Chappell graduated from Groton and Yale University. He was a lifelong resident of Lake Forest, IL. He was a graphic designer and photographer. He is survived by his wife, Patsy, his children, George S. Chappell, IV and S
 JAFFE--Matthew. May 31, 1921-August 23, 2005 in NYC. Loving and devoted husband to the late Vita for 46 years. Survived by his beloved children Dana, Byron and Robert; endearing grandchildren Benjamin, Hannah, Nathaniel and Vita; adoring daughtersin-law Kendra, Beth and devoted son-in-law T
 MAY--Harry, O.D. Passed away in his sleep on August 22, 2005. Born in Rock Hill, N.Y. on June 20, 1916, he received his undergraduate and optometry education at the University of California Berkeley. He served in the Army Air Corp. during WWII, rising to the rank of Major. He was married to
 PITTA--Vito J. November 29, 1926 to August 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Albertina (deceased) and father of Vincent, Tina Marie Bauman, and Debra Ward. Beloved father-in-law of Antoinette Pitta and Peter Ward. Loving and adored grandfather (''PopPop'') of Vito, Ralph and Albertina Pitta; Mat
 RIPLEY--Malcolm Pennington, 78, of La Quinta, CA. Died August 12, 2005. Devoted husband of the late Bettie Boatman Fenwick, he is survived by his sister, Frederica Ripley French, and eleven nieces and nephews. After graduating from the Brooks School, he worked at City Bank Farmer's Trust Co
 SETON--Charles B. Prominent New York attorney for over 50 years in the arts and publishing fields, died at 94 of respiratory and cardiac failure on August 20, 2005 in Greenwich, CT. He left his loving wife Suzanne Maimin Seton, daughter Pam Seton Lorenzo, son Charles B. Seton Jr., son-in-la
 STATSINGER -- Dr. Arnold. Loving husband, devoted father, grandfather and brother. Services will be held Thursday, 12 PM, at Temple Judea of Manhasset, 333 Searingtown Rd, Manhasset, NY. $(6$)STATSINGER--Arnold, M.D. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of our much loved co
 WASCHLER--Francis. On August 22, 2005 of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved husband of Rosalyn. Devoted father of Jane Einhorn and Randi Morgenstern. Dear brother of Harriet Kulerman and the late Jerome. Grandfather of Michael, Matthew, Jason and Corey. $(6$)WASCHLER -- Francis. Temple Sin
 Charles S. ReVelle, an environmental engineer and systems analyst whose creative application of mathematical models helped determine the ideal sites for reservoirs, nature preserves, power stations and other projects, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Baltimore. He was 67. The cause wa
 Clarence C. Newcomer, who as a federal judge in Philadelphia for more than three decades won a reputation for no-nonsense jurisprudence in hundreds of cases ranging from civil rights to organized crime to baseball cards, died Monday at his home in Stone Harbor, N.J., near Cape May. He was 8
 Vito J. Pitta, a former president of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council and longtime leader of its core Local 6, died on Sunday at his home on Staten Island. He was 78 and also had a home in Sunny Isles, Fla. The cause was complications of lung cancer, his family said.     
 Lyndon Woodside, a choral conductor who for more than three decades led one of New York City's oldest and largest choruses, the Oratorio Society of New York, died on Tuesday in Engelwood, N.J. He was 70 and lived in Leonia, N.J. The cause was pneumonia, said Richard Pace, president 
 Richard Kelly, a Florida politician who became the only Republican congressman convicted in the Abscam corruption scandal a quarter century ago, died Monday at a nursing home in Stevensville, Mont., where he had moved in retirement. He was 81. His death was confirmed by the Whitesit
 Duncan R. Elder, a leading advocate of low-cost housing, particularly for the elderly, and a former president of Phipps Houses in New York City, one of the country's largest nonprofit housing ventures, died on Aug. 14 at a hospice in East Northport, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Cold Spring H
 BORGENICHT--Jacob Moses ''Jack'', 93. August 29, 1911August 25, 2005. Long Valley, New Jersey Land Preservation Activist, mountain climber, manufacturer of children's clothing, and businessman. Survived by his wife Fran; daughters Jan Schwartz, Berta Kerr, Lois , Nicole, Carrie and Ruth Bor
 POLL--Alfred Politzer on August 26, 2005. In his 85th year. Deeply beloved husband of Barbara. Cherished father of Susie and Ken Osnoss, David Poll and Becky Bien. Adored grandfather of Joe, Dan, Raphi, Michael and Teddy. Revered brother-in-law and uncle, loyal friend. His love of life will
 Donald Posner, a leading scholar of Baroque art and 17th- and 18th-century painting in Italy and France, died on Aug. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his companion, Joan Leibovitz. At his death, Mr.
 Elwood Perry, a soft-spoken Southerner who translated his almost preternatural ability to catch fish into a finely tuned philosophy, a lucrative business and a personal legend as outsized as any fish story, died on Aug. 12 at his home in Taylorsville, N.C. He was 90. His family said
 Melvin Howard Osterman, a founding partner of the Albany law firm Whiteman Osterman & Hanna and an architect of important state labor legislation, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Delmar, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was a severe reaction to insect stings he received while gardening, acc
 ANTON--Paul. On August 27, 2005. Beloved husband of Jung Suk. Devoted father of Sandra, Laura Madden (Fred), Anthony, Philip and James. Adored grandfather of Kimberly, Natti and Shannon Madden. He faced his illness with bravery, surrounded by his family. Paul was a master furrier and was th
 BORGENICHT--Jacob Moses ''Jack'', 93. August 29, 1911August 25, 2005. Long Valley, New Jersey Land Preservation Activist, mountain climber, manufacturer of children's clothing, and businessman. Survived by his wife Fran; daughters Jan Schwartz, Berta Kerr, Lois , Nicole, Carrie and Ruth Bor
 BRONER--Mathew, age 81. Artist and educator, beloved father of Katy, Heidi, Megan and Susan, died peacefully on August 8th, 2005 at home in his Soho loft after a courageous battle with cancer. He is also survived by his former wife and close friend, Opal and his dear brother, Bob. A passion
 FATT--Howard J. 95, married 63 years to his beloved Thelma. Proud father and fatherin-law to Amelia and Larry Plapler, Naomi Fatt and John Armstrong, David Philips and Marcy Soronson. Fond grandfather of Dina, Rina, Stefan, Michael, Sarah, Allison and Chloe. Captain, US Army, World War II. 
 FIELDSTEEL--Ira of Rockport, MA, formerly of Closter, NJ, died on August 26, 2005 at the age of 91. He was the beloved husband of Nina and loving father of Joshua (and Esther) Fieldsteel of Jerusalem, Israel, Adam Fieldsteel (and Irene) Mulvey of Middletown, CT, and the ''adopted'' father o
 HECKER--Leo. Passed away peacefully on August 25, 2005 surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Myra for 52 years. Adoring father of Debbye and Ilene, Frederick and Glenn. Doting grandfather of Jared, Neal, Daniel, Jonathan, Jason and Jordan. His wit and fun loving nature will be missed
 HOWARD--Barr, of Cos Cob, CT, died on August 17, 2005, at Northern Manor Nursing Home in Nanuet, NY. He was 81. Mr. Howard for many years worked in sales. Mr. Howard was born January 17, 1924, in Elizabeth, NJ, to Frank A. and Almeda Barr Howard. He was educated at the Taft School and earne
 JACKSON--Jay. Of Jupiter, FL, formerly of Manhasset, NY. Died August 16 at 86. He moved to NY when television was in its infancy and hosted many of TV's early drama and quiz shows including Philco Television Playhouse, Lux Video Theater, Twenty Questions and Tic Tac Dough. He narrated newsr
 KANNER -- Robert ''Bob''. Born in Brooklyn, NY passed away on August 20, 2005 at the age of 65. Former Chief Engineer of WMCA radio. He is survived by his beloved wife Sheli Witz; loving children Gary (Cynthia) Kanner, Fran (Greg) Shavzin & Robin Kanner; three grandchildren & his faithful c
 ORFUSS--Robert. August 24, 2005, age 53. Beloved son of the late Muriel and Irving. Cherished brother of Mitchell and Leslie. Brother-in-law of Kate and Lionel. Adored uncle of Kathryn and Stuart. Nephew of Ken and Barbara Levine. Cousin of Ellen and Marilyn Orfuss and Lee Bricker, Judie an
 POLL--Alfred Politzer on August 26, 2005. In his 85th year. Deeply beloved husband of Barbara. Cherished father of Susie and Ken Osnoss, David Poll and Becky Bien. Adored grandfather of Joe, Dan, Raphi, Michael and Teddy. Revered brother-in-law and uncle, loyal friend. His love of life will
 RUGGER--Gerald K., passed away on Thursday, August 25, 2005, in his home in Rancho Bernardo, CA. Born August 10, 1916 in Buffalo Center, Iowa to Gertrude Klein and Frederick Rugger. He lived in New York City, Chatham, NJ and Rancho Bernardo, CA. A mathematics graduate of the University of I
 Andrnico Luksic, a Chilean billionaire who built one of Latin America's biggest business empires, died Aug. 18 in Chile. He was 78 years old. His death was reported by Antofagasta P.L.C., the company where he had served as chairman until his retirement last year. Mr. Luksi
 ANTON--Paul. On August 27, 2005. Beloved husband of Jung Suk. Devoted father of Sandra, Laura Madden (Fred), Anthony, Phillip and James. Adored grandfather of Kimberly Nati and Shannon Madden. He faced his illness with bravery, surrounded by his family. Paul was a master furrier and was the
 BRENNER - Maurice. Born August 25, 1914, died at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, NJ, on August 25, 2005. For over 50 years, he worked on Broadway, off Broadway, summer stock, road companies, radio, television and movies. His wife, Judith, died in 1998. His ashes will be interred at Mount
 BRONER--Mathew, age 81. Artist and educator, beloved father of Katy, Heidi, Megan and Susan, died peacefully on August 8th, 2005 at home in his Soho loft after a courageous battle with cancer. He is also survived by his former wife and close friend, Opal and his dear brother, Bob. A passion
 DOREMUS--Richard R. Died peacefully at home on August 27, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife Vivian Powers Doremus; his children Llyn Doremus and her husband Kelvin K. Kollie, Laurel Doremus and her husband Otis Guy, and Richard R. Doremus, Jr., and Jane Seelbach, and his grandchildren
 KATZ--Robert H. (Bob). Of NY and Easthampton, died peacefully at age 85 in Easthampton. Loving husband for 45 years of Rita Kupsick Katz. Adored father of Toni Fillet and Jody and Giulio Martini. Loving ''Poppy'' to Gabriella and Francesca Martini. He is also survived by two sisters. Bob at
 MAIZEL--Harry. On August 28, 2005 at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Sarah; cherished father of Naomi Berne, Abby Maizel and Amy Seeherman; son-in-law Bruce Berne and daughter-in-law Gail Maizel; treasured grandpa of David and Michael Berne, Jennifer and Rebecca Maizel and Joshua Seeher
 RAPAPORT--Leonard H. 90, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York City. Survived by his wife Helen, his daughter Fran Tetunic, his grandson Scott Tetunic, his niece Marsha Hartstein. A man of warmth, kindness and wisdom.       
 SARNA--Joseph. The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighters Museum mourns the passing of Joseph Sarna, father of our board member, Mark Sarna. Joe's deep love of Israel and the Jewish people, and his commitment to Holocaust education live on in the good works of his children and grandchildre
 Ronald F. Scott, the chief designer of the scoop that first tested the composition and strength of the moon's surface, establishing that man's first small step there could be taken safely, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his son Grant
 Dr. Morris Ziff, an expert in rheumatic diseases who investigated how the body sometimes turns on itself to cause such illnesses, died on Aug. 22 in Dallas. He was 91. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Dr. Ziff, who trained at New York University and taught ther
 DILLON--Martin. A uniquely bright light in our lives went out when our dear friend & colleague, Martin Dillon, passed away suddenly. We mourn his passing with tears, giggles & endless gratitude. Martin was a superb musician, a wonderful tenor, an adored teacher, & above all, an irrepressibl
 KATZ--Robert H. (Bob). Of NY and Easthampton, died peacefully at age 85 in Easthampton. Loving husband for 45 years of Rita Kupsick Katz. Adored father of Toni Fillet and Jody and Giulio Martini. Loving ''Poppy'' to Gabriella and Francesca Martini. He is also survived by two sisters. Bob at
 LINNEHAN--E. Donald, Jr., died August 28, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife Alice, his children Donald and Victoria, his mother Catherine and sister Moira. Visiting hours at the Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelham, NY, Tuesday from 24 & 7-9pm. Mass St. Augustine Church, La
 MAIZEL--Harry. On August 28, 2005 at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Sarah; cherished father of Naomi Berne, Abby Maizel and Amy Seeherman; son-in-law Bruce Berne and daughter-in-law Gail Maizel; treasured grandpa of David and Michael Berne, Jennifer and Rebecca Maizel and Joshua Seeher
 RUSHTON--Brian. Former Director of Publications, The Tate Gallery, London, and The Brooklyn Museum of Art. Graphic designer extraordinaire, unreservedly committed to everything he undertook. Ave Atque Vale Nancy and Ehren       
 SCHOENFELD--Martin S. Died August 27, 2005 at age 92 in Tamarac, FL. Formerly a resident (and Mayor of) Hewlett Harbor, L.I. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Lorraine, his daughter, Carol S. Wasserman, his son Robert, and 4 grandchildren. He was a benefactor of the Florida Grand Oper
 SETON--Charles. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of one of the founders of our Society, a leader of the American copyright bar, a mentor to many generations of copyright lawyers and a philanthropist whose contributions will live on through his endowment of the award that bears 
 TEITLER--Stanley Aaron. Age 59. Suddenly at home on Sunday, August 28, 2005. Attorney. Beloved husband of Jane. Devoted father of Andrea, Allison and Amanda. He touched the lives of all he met. He will be greatly missed. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenu
 YEISER--Charles W. ''Bill'', 79, died August 28, 2005, West Nyack, N.Y. Owner of FAR Gallery and realist painter. Survived by his loving wife Adele; daughter Elizabeth Danahy; son Charles W. Yeiser III; and three grandsons. Sorce's Funeral Home 845-358-4433.       
 FITZPATRICK--Thomas, S.J. Loving brother of Gerry Ammering, Margaret Mary ''Pat'', Mike, and the late Harry and Charles. Also survived by sister-in-laws Marie Flowers and Eileen and his Jesuit brothers and many friends throughout the world. Reposing at the Jesuit Community Chapel at Murray-
 MOOR-JANKOWSKI--Jan Karol, M.D. Age 81 in NYC. World renowned scientist and Polish freedom fighter. Beloved husband of Deborah, mourned by his children Bernard, Sarah and Tadeusz, his former wife Catherine Blancpain, two grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Burial will be in Poland. A
 James H. Scheuer, a fiercely liberal New York congressman who for 13 terms represented districts covering parts of the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn and Nassau County as part of a post-World War II generation of political reformers, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 85. The
 Jude Wanniski, a journalist, consultant and, most of all, a fierce and unconventional partisan who marshaled intellect and salesmanship to promote big tax cuts as the best cure for an ailing economy, a theory embraced and executed by President Reagan, died yesterday in Morristown, N.J. He w
 BING--Franz Josef. 89, passed on August 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Jeanne, adored father of Lauren and treasured grandfather of Blake and Chase. Remembered for his generosity, his humor, his loyal friendships and his love of family. Memorial visitation on Wednesday, August 31, from 5 to 7
 BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. Survived by his loving partner Marcia Soltes, his sons Adam and Rabbi Barnett, his sister Joy Rabinowitz and his four grandchildren, Alexander, Eve, Eli and Hasina. Services Thursday, 11AM, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, N.Y. Contributions may be made in 
 CHEW--Beverly Cory.Known to friends and family as Peter, died of lung cancer on Friday August 26, 2005 at Westminster Canterbury, in Charlottesville, Virginia, at the age of 77. Mr. Chew was born on June 18, 1928 in Rochester, New York, to Philip Frederick Chew and Jane Cory Chew. Raised in
 CLEMENTS--Millard. Defender of rights. We celebrate his life and express our heartfelt sympathy to his dear wife Phyllis, daughters Saritha and Carlosa, son Jehan and grandson Drew. Weiss-Jacobson Family       
 HOGUE--Mitchell (Mitch) J., age 45 of Galena, IL formerly of New York City, NY died suddenly on Saturday, August 27, 2005 at Mercy Medical Center, Dubuque, IA. He was born on January 23, 1960 in Canton, OH. Mitch attended high school in Avon Lake, OH and then graduated Magna Cum Laude from 
 KATZ--Robert H. (Bob). Of NY and Easthampton, died peacefully at age 85 in Easthampton. Loving husband for 45 years of Rita Kupsick Katz. Adored father of Toni Fillet and Jody and Giulio Martini. Loving ''Poppy'' to Gabriella and Francesca Martini. He is also survived by two sisters. Bob at
 McINERNEY--John. Died August 30, 2005 at age 44. Leaves behind his wife Mary, son Jack, age 14, daughter Princess Clare, age 12, father Patrick and sister Jacinta. Executive Director at Morgan Stanley, avid runner and New York Mets fan. Member Saint John's-Saint Mary's R.C. Parish; after a 
 RUSHTON--Brian. Former Director of Publications, The Tate Gallery, London, and The Brooklyn Museum of Art. Graphic designer extraordinaire, unreservedly committed to everything he undertook. Ave Atque Vale Nancy and Ehren       
 SCHEUER--James H. August 29, 2005, age 85, peacefully at home in Washington. Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1964-1972 and 1974-1992. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Emily Malino Scheuer, and his loving children, Laura, Elizabeth (PeterJoseph), James (Lorna P
 SCHOENFELD--Martin S. Died August 27, 2005 at age 92 in Tamarac, FL. Formerly a resident (and Mayor of) Hewlett Harbor, L.I. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Lorraine, his daughter, Carol S. Wasserman, his son Robert, and 4 grandchildren. He was a benefactor of the Florida Grand Oper
 SCHWARTZ -- Jerrold Mi chael. With deepest love and affection we announce his death on August 30, 2005. Best friend and husband of Renee; beloved father of Robin Adelman (Barry), Richard Schwartz and the late Nancy Schwartz Schreier; adored grandfather of Lindsay, Travis, Amanda, Kathryn, D
 SETON--Charles. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of one of the founders of our Society, a leader of the American copyright bar, a mentor to many generations of copyright lawyers and a philanthropist whose contributions will live on through his endowment of the award that bears 
 SQUAIRE--Lawrence. On August 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Anthony and Barbara Squire, Andrew Squire and Ilya Speranza, Michael and Roseann Squire and Lori and Kenneth Einhorn. Loving grandfather of Jason, Sarah, Harry, Molly, Emma, Corey and Abby. He served as a J
 YEISER--Charles W. ''Bill'', 79, died August 28, 2005, West Nyack, N.Y. Owner of FAR Gallery and realist painter. Survived by his loving wife Adele; daughter Elizabeth Danahy; son Charles W. Yeiser III; and three grandsons. Sorce's Funeral Home 845-358-4433.       
 MOOR-JANKOWSKI--Jan Karol, M.D. Age 81 in NYC. World renowned scientist and Polish freedom fighter. Beloved husband of Deborah, mourned by his children Bernard, Sarah and Tadeusz, his former wife Catherine Blancpain, two grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Burial will be in Poland. A
