 The jazz guitarist Chuck Wayne, who took part in the beginnings of the be-bop movement in the 1940's, played with delicacy and musical wit, and instructed countless young guitarists in the mysteries of the music, died on Tuesday at his home in Jackson, N.J. He was 74. The cause was 
 Frank A. Kaufman, a Federal district judge in Baltimore who presided over many important cases and was a leader in the American Bar Association, died today at his home in Baltimore. He was 81. A family friend and former law partner, Shale Stiller, said the cause was a rare blood dis
 Mohammed Mahdi al-Jawahri, the most famous contemporary Iraqi poet in the Arab world, who was forced to flee his country as an opponent of the Baghdad regime, died in exile in Syria on Sunday. He was 97. The Arab News Agency of Syria said he died in a hospital in Damascus. He fled t
 BAER-Andrew R., of Armonk, New York, on July 28. Devoted son of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer; loving father of David and Jessica; cherished brother of John R. Baer; uncle of Alexandra and Abigail; and nephew of Eva Baer, Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and George Grumbach. A memorial service 
 BIRNBAUM-Leo (Lazar). Condolences to Sala, Michael and Gail, and his brother, our partner, Arthur Birnbaum. The Families of Willy Apfel, Stanley Katz, Nat Tennenbaum, and all of Learsi       
 BROOK-Arthur N. July 30, 1997. The partners of Mound, Cotton & Wollan mourn the untimely loss of our esteemed partner and friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 COHEN-Ronald H. The Board of Trustees, The Men's Club and Sisterhood of The Reform Temple of Forest Hills deeply mourns the passing of their beloved Honorary Trustee Ronald H. Cohen. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Roslyn and the entire Cohen family. Funeral services at Schwar
 EISENROD-Solomon. On July 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Sally. Loving father of Michael, Nancy and son-in-law Howard. Dear brother of Barney, Eddie and sister-in-law Mary. Adoring grandfather of Seth and Alexis. Visiting Thursday 7-9 PM. Service Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Str
 POLLACK-Ed. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Phillip Pollack on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 RYLE-Joseph D. The Board of Managers and staff of East Side House Settlement express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our good friend and benefactor, Mr. Joseph D. Ryle. A member of the Board since 1956 and a dynamic and tireless volunteer of the Winter Antiques Show Committee from 1955
 SCHLAGER-Walter L. Beloved husband of Lore. Father of Rother and Shoi. Died peacefully at home after a long illness, July 31. He was a partner at Peat Marwick in NYC. He is also survived by mother Mary Louise Schlager, two sisters Mary and Susan, and mother-inlaw Buba Deutsch. In lieu of fl
 SLEETH-Charles R. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of English Charles R. Sleeth. His 22 years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President, Brooklyn College       
 STONE-Leo, M.D. Died July 29, 1997, in his 93rd year. Beloved husband and best friend of Marta. A loving brother, father, grandfather and great grandfather. He will be greatly missed. He was a kind and gentle spirit who touched us all. His memory will be cherished by family, friends, collea
 TOMCHIN-Mark L. Died July 25 at his home in New York City. He was 56. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease. During his 30-year career as an executive recruiter, he developed the industry's first specialized practice in the hightechnology arena. Since 1982 he was president of his own firm, Mar
 ULLMAN-Guido. We mourn the passing of our longtime good friend and associate, Guido Ullman. Guido was always loved and respected by all who knew him. He conducted his business affairs in a highly professional manner and was a good and charming friend who was also a lover and connoisseur of 
 ZARETSKY-Professor Barry. It is with deep sorrow that the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of New York notes the passing of Barry Zaretsky. We shall always be grateful for his invaluable contributions to the interpretation of bankruptcy law as reflected in his many ar
 Bao Dai, the last Emperor in a line that held the throne in Vietnam for a century and a half, died on Thursday in France, where he spent nearly half of his life in exile after abdicating in 1945. The French Defense Ministry, which made the announcement yesterday, said he died in a military 
 Kenneth W. Bilby, an author and journalist, died of leukemia in Dallas yesterday. He was 78. Born in Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Bilby  graduated from the University of Arizona. He worked at The New York Herald Tribune as a United Nations correspondent, an assistant city editor and a foreign
 ANDROMIDAS-Charles John, 80, formerly of Manhasset, L.I., in North Palm Beach, FL, surrounded by his immediate family. Charlie is survived by his wife Nancy and was pre-deceased by his first wife Katherine. Also surviving are his sons Charles Jr. (Garland Richard Kyle), Chris and Tom (Kim);
 BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and 
 BROOK-Arthur N. Age 64. On July 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Deborah Snyderman Brook; loving father of Doris Jeanne, Saul Joseph, Jessica Arber and Noah Jonathan; devoted grandfather of Nathaniel and Jonah. Funeral services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, Sunday, August 3 at 9:45
 COOPER-Anthony (Tony) C., a well-known production stage manager and public relations executive, died Thursday, (July 31) at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. He was 43 and lived in Athens, New York, and Greenwich Village in Manhattan. The cause was complications related to Aids, his 
 EISENROD-Solomon. The partners and associates of Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl, LLP mourn the passing of their valued friend and client, Solomon Eisenrod and extend their sympathies to his wife, Sally, his children, Michael and Nancy, his brother, Barney, and the Eisenrod family. Parker Ch
 LINCER-William. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. notes with sadness the death of William Lincer, Principal Violist of the Orchestra from 1943 to 1972. During a distinguished Philharmonic career, Mr. Lincer played more than 4,000 concerts, including 57 solo appearances. Mo
 NEUSTADTER-Emanuel. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish & Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of the father of its Segan and esteemed Trustee, Peter Neustadter. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Naomi and his family. The burial and Shivah are being observed in Israel. Alvi
 NICHOLSON-Rev. George M. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of St. John Vianney Church, Flushing, July 31. Reposing St. John Vianney Parish Center, 140-10 34th Ave., Saturday, Aug. 2, 12-2 PM, 6-8 PM, Sunday, August 3, 4-6 PM. Mass of Transferral Sunday, Aug. 3 at 7:3
 STECHER-Glenn Todd. 7/2/478/2/87. A heart of gold stopped beating, two eyes closed to rest. God broke our hearts to prove to us he only takes the best. Love, Mom, Karen, Lee, Bonnie, John, Nicole, Kelly and Johnnie       
 The Russian pianist Sviatoslav Richter, one of the most acclaimed keyboard artists of the 20th century, died yesterday in a Moscow hospital. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, the Russian Culture Ministry reported. Though he kept a commodious apartment in Moscow and a 
 J. David Jones, an airborne Balanchine who used the sky as his stage and helicopters as his corps de ballet, died on July 14 at his home in Redway, Calif. He was 61 and had been Hollywood's premier helicopter pilot and an accomplished aerial coordinator. His family said the cause wa
 Dr. Leo Stone, a past president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and New York Psychoanalytic Society and a teacher and author who guided his colleagues toward a more humanistic approach toward their patients, died on Tuesday. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Stone, who 
 BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and 
 BECKER-John Victor, 77. Inventor of a paperless, Braille reader. Beloved husband of Helen, father of Graham, David and daughterin-law Pamela, and brother of Eileen. His charm, sense of humor and determination will always be remembered. A memorial will be held at a later date.       
 BROOK-Arthur N. Age 64. On July 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Deborah Snyderman Brook; loving father of Doris Jeanne, Saul Joseph, Jessica Arber and Noah Jonathan; devoted grandfather of Nathaniel and Jonah. Funeral services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, Sunday, August 3 at 9:45
 CATAPANO-Frank. After a long and valiant battle against cancer, died on Saturday, August 2, 1997, at Lenox Hill Hospital with his loving family at his side. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 43 years Joy (nee Franks), three adoring children Joanne, Andrew, and Joy, his cherished grandchi
 CLIFFORD-Dr. Stewart Hilton. Of Duxbury, MA, on August 31. Age 96, formerly of Weston, MA. Beloved husband of 70 years to Ellinor (Burnett) Clifford. Loving father to Stewart B. Clifford of NYC, Frederic M. Clifford of Duxbury, MA, Donald F. Clifford of Waltham, MA, and Paul B. Clifford of 
 COLEMAN-George L., 85, of Hobe Sound, Florida, died July 23, 1997. He was engaged in mining and oil businesses and was an avid sportsman, who was a close friend of Ben Hogan and Bing Crosby. Born in Miami, OK. on Jan 1, 1912, Mr. Coleman attended Western Academy in Alton, IL., and attended 
 FRIEDLOB-Herbert Z. Died after a brief illness in Atlanta, GA, July 19, 1997. He is survived by his wife Charlotte, his son Alan and daughter-in-law Elie. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Alzheimer's Association.       
 GOLAN-David Lloyd. Died at his home in Weston, CT. Born in N.Y.C. on June 22, 1919 to Anna and Joseph Golan. Survived by his wife Nancy, daughter Lisa, son Mark, and three grandchildren.       
 GRANSTON-David W., 60, formerly of Locust Valley, NY and Northeast Harbor, ME. Died July 31, 1997. He is survived by his wife Priscilla (nee Day), son David W. Jr and grandson David ''Willie'' III, all of Northeast Harbor, ME.       
 RAMIREZ-Guillermo E., on July 27, 1997, in Anchorage, Alaska, age 37, administrative assistant for Yves Saint Laurent Boutique, NY. Survived by his lifetime companion Michael R. Kligel, his mother Valerio Graciela, his father Ramirez Josean, his brothers Josean Jr., Luigi, Juan Carlos, and 
 RAVAGE-Maurice. Of NYC, on August 1, 1997. He lived 89 years and, for 66 of them, was the beloved husband of Anita. He was the devoted father of Susan Herron, Alan Ravage, and the late Margot Marek, six loving grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren. Formerly Assistant Corportion Counsel o
 SCHWABER-David. On July 31, 1997. Adored husband for 70 years of Betty. Beloved father of Jules and Paul. Devoted father-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, uncle, cousin and friend. Adoring grandfather of Carl, Jeffrey, Mitchell, Glen and Catherine. Delighted greatgrandfather of Joshua and Da
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7, 1986-1997 Eleven years today. The warmth of his laughter... generous deeds... integrity... kind and loving ways... and ''the memories linger on''. Children, grandchildren and Joyce       
 POSILKIN-Etta. Dear Etta, five years since you left me and our children for ''God's Heaven.'' As you know, we always think of you and miss you. With love and hugs from all. Charles Posilkin and his loving family       
 William S. Burroughs, a renegade writer of the Beat Generation who stunned readers and inspired adoring cultists with his 1959 book ''Naked Lunch,'' died yesterday afternoon at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Kan. He was 83. The cause of his death was a heart attack that he 
 Bennett A. Brown, a captain of Southern banking who navigated through the financial shoals of bad real estate loans and interstate mergers, died on Saturday morning at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 68. Lung cancer was diagnosed in Mr. Brown a year ago. He serv
 Bert Phillips, who retired in 1982 after 10 years as chairman and chief executive of the Clark Equipment Company, the maker of forklift trucks and vehicle parts, died July 15 at his summer home in Cassopolis, Mich. He was 78. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease, his son, Eri
 Chone Shmeruk, an authority on Yiddish, died on July 5 in Warsaw, his native city. He was 76 and taught Yiddish literature in Poland in recent years after retiring from a professorship in Israel. When his death was announced in Jerusalem by Hebrew University, the cause was not discl
 Egmont Sonderling, the founder and chief executive of a radio and television company bearing his name, died on July 22 at the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center in Miami. Mr. Sonderling, a resident of Bal Harbour, Fla., was 91. Mr. Sonderling emigrated to the United States from G
 Fela, the Nigerian singer and band leader who combined pulsating Afro-beat rhythms and scathing pidgin English lyrics to goad Nigeria's leaders and denounce their authoritarian regimes, died on Saturday at his home in Lagos. He was 58 and had been Africa's most famous musician and his count
 Harold Lloyd Sheppard, who studied and wrote about the aging of America, particularly in the workplace, died on July 10 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Clearwater, Fla. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Sheppard was the
 Joseph Dickson Hinkle, a Boston lawyer who was long active in community affairs, died July 24 at his home on Beacon Hill. He was 54. The cause was cancer, said Elliot M. Surkin, a partner in the firm of Hill & Barlow, where Mr. Hinkle practiced corporate and tax law. Mr. Hin
 ABLES-Richard L. (Dick), on August 1, 1997. Loving son of the late Edward and Florence Ables. Dear brother of Mildred Levine and the late Cecelia Sanders. Adored uncle of Alan Levine, Lynn Weisberg, and Barry Levine, great uncle. Dick was a well known person in the music business. He was ro
 AGNELLO-Thomas J., Jr. The partners, associates and staff of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are saddened by the passing of their friend and colleague, Tom Agnello. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ann Marie DeSciora and his children, Heather, Alexis and Andrew. Tom will be misse
 BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and 
 CATAPANO-Frank. After a long and valiant battle against cancer, died on Saturday, August 2, 1997, at Lenox Hill Hospital with his loving family at his side. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 43 years Joy (nee Franks), three adoring children Joanne, Andrew, and Joy, his cherished grandchi
 FEIBUSCH-Emanuel. 92, died August 2, 1997, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Husband of the late Ida (nee Marantz). Devoted father of Ellie Kimelman, Karen Feibusch, Jerry and Jane Feibusch. Grandfather of Rick and Dot Kimelman, Keith and Kelly Feibusch, Amy and Jill Feibusch and great-grandson David 
 HOROWITZ-Sidney. Of Astoria, Queens, on August 2, in his 80th year. Husband of 54 years to Myrtle (deceased). Father of Daniel (deceased), Gina and Mollie. Grandfather of Cori, Joseph, Gabriel and Aaron, and great-grandfather of Jacob. Sidney was a successful businessman-owner of Pawley Con
 POLIAK-Saul. Died August 2, 1997. He was married to Janice Poliak who died in 1989. He was President of Clapp & Poliak and later of Kotch & Poliak. He was a pioneer in the industrial exhibition field, and a major contributor to the Columbia Univeristy School of Journalism. In lieu of flower
 PRAGER-David A. On August 2, 1997. Devoted husband of Annabelle Forsch Prager. Loving father of Jonathan Forsch Prager and Lucy Eden Prager Weintraub. Father-in-law of Benjamin Weintraub. Grandfather of Samuel Albert Weintraub. Beloved brother of Esther Enrich. He brought beauty and order t
 REISENMAN-Robert. On August 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Linda. Loving father of Debra and Judy. Will be remembered for his renowned musical genius, arrangements and accompaniments.       
 STOLINSKY-Irving, of Lauderhill, FL, formerly of Clifton, NJ, died August 1, age 81. Survived by wife Babs (Aufzien); children Masha (Stolinsky) and Avraham Taurog of Brooklyn, Peter and Peggi Stolinsky of Los Altos, CA, David Stolinksy of NYC, Robin Stolinsky of NYC; grandchildren Etta and
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.''       
 Robert J. Schwartz Jr., a banker who was among the first to promote derivatives as a financial instrument to help companies hedge against fluctuating currencies or interest rates, died July 15 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 50, and his family said the cause wa
 William S. Burroughs, a renegade writer of the Beat Generation who stunned readers and inspired adoring cultists with his 1959 book ''Naked Lunch,'' died on Saturday evening at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Kan. He was 83. The cause of his death was a heart attack that he 
 BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and 
 BALDINI-Robert A., 76, of Short Hills, New Jersey, a company executive, died August 1 in Overlook Hospital, Summit. Mr. Baldini was the president of R.A. Baldini and Co., a wax importer firm in Millburn, New Jersey from 1952 to 1988, when he retired. He was a 1942 graduate of Princeton Univ
 BILBY-Kenneth. Age 78, born Oct 7, 1918, Salt Lake City., passed away in Dallas, TX Aug 1. Mr. Bilby made his home in Dallas and Greenwich, CT. Before retirement in 1984, Mr. Bilby served as Executive VP at RCA for a number of years. Prior to that, he worked for NBC. Upon retirement, Mr. Bi
 BRANDT-Joseph. Joseph died July 19 at age 88. Survived by wife, Sylvia, daughters, Elaine of Los Angeles, and Joan (Trubenstein) of Staten Island, grandchildren, Joseph and Carrie Ann. He served in two wars, the Abraham Lincoln Brigade of the Spanish Civil War and World War II. He dedicated
 DUCHIN-Ralph Isadore, August 3, of Newton, MA. Husband of Eunice (Bloom). Father of David Stein and his wife, Marilyn, of Needham, MA, Abner Stein of London, and Linda Clark of New York. Devoted to his five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Graveside services on August 5, in Shar
 FLETCHER-Andrew, Jr., at age 77 in Newport, Rhode Island. A resident of Southampton, New York, he is survived by his wife, Ann Burford Fletcher; his son, Andrew Fletcher III of Ashland, Oregon; his stepdaughters, Dollie Briggs of Newport, R.I., and Marianne Borgono of Southampton; his grand
 FRIEDMAN-Sidney O. Born August 22, 1912, passed away August 1, 1997. Cherished husband of Annette. Adored father of Sandra and Ronald. Beloved father-in-law of Mickey and Laura. Devoted brother of Mildred. Loving grandfather of Nicholas. Prestigious attorney dedicated to his profession. Res
 JONES-Estes 67, son of late Mildred and Emory Jones, died peacefully Aug 2 in his sleep after a brief illness in Grand Prairie, TX. 1950 Journalism graduate, Univ of TX. Editorial work included Houston Chronicle Reporter; Public Relations for Landor Assoc., San Francisco; Editor of Kopper T
 KATZKI-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) deeply mourn the passing of Herbert Katzki, a giant in the history of JDC since 1936. He served overseas for 30 years. One day before Nazi troops entered Paris in 1940, he fl
 LANDSMAN-Harold A. On August 3, 1997. Partner in firm of Shandling & Landsman. Beloved husband of Rebeline. Adoring father of Michael and Susan. Loving grandfather of Nick and Arri. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Tuesday 7-9 pm, with service Wednesday A
 MOSBACH-Erwin H. Died Aug. 1 after a long illness. He is survived by his loving wife, Marianne, and by his son, Peter, and his grandchildren, David and Michael. He was formerly a biochemist at Beth Israel Medical Center. A memorial service will be held at a later date. MOSBACH-Erwin
 PITKIEWICZ-Rev. Vincent F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor Emeritus of St. Joseph's Church, 108-43 Sutphin Blvd., Jamaica, on Aug 2. Reposing at Leahy-McDonald Funeral Home, 111-02 Atlantic Ave., Richmond Hill, Monday, Aug 4, from 2 to 4:30 and 7 to 9pm, Tuesday, A
 POLIAK-Saul. Died August 2, 1997. He was married to Janice Poliak who died in 1989. He was President of Clapp & Poliak and later of Kotch & Poliak. He was a pioneer in the industrial exhibition field, and a major contributor to the Columbia Univeristy School of Journalism. In lieu of flower
 PRAGER-David A. On August 2, 1997. Devoted husband of Annabelle Forsch Prager. Loving father of Jonathan Forsch Prager and Lucy Eden Prager Weintraub. Father-in-law of Benjamin Weintraub. Grandfather of Samuel Albert Weintraub. Beloved brother of Esther Enrich. He brought beauty and order t
 REISENMAN-Robert. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of their devoted organist of thirty-three years. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Linda, his daughters Judy and Debra, and to the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Linda P. Goldberg
 SIMON-Sidney. The Boards of Trustees and Governors and the staff of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture mourn the passing of the School's last surviving founder and its long-time friend, Sidney Simon. Sidney and three fellow artists founded the School in 1946. Sidney was a facult
 STEIN-Richard J. Age 92, died August 3, in Cupertino, CA. Formerly of NYC and Scarsdale, NY. Survived by his wife, Ann Sonnentheil Stein, daughters, Diane Stein Greenberg of Palo Alto, CA, Sally Stein of Los Angeles, CA and two granddaughters. Brother of William S. Stein of NYC.       
 STRAIGHT-William S., 52, on August 3, 1997, peacefully at home in Briarcliff Manor, NY after a valiant battle with pancreatic cancer. He leaves behind his wife, Liz, and their children, Anne and Jonathan, to whom he was always a totally devoted husband and father, best friend, companion, ad
 Clarence M. Kelley, the square-jawed former police chief who headed the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1973 to 1978, steering it away from its campaign against Communism, out of its Watergate-era miasma and into a new battle against white-collar and organized crime, died today at his 
 David A. Prager, a lawyer who became an outspoken and forceful advocate for urban architectural preservation and an influential figure in the arts in New York City, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Prager was passionate about the beauty of the city and about
 Eugene G. Fubini, a physicist and electronics engineer who was active in Allied efforts to hamstring Axis radar operations in Europe in World War II and became an Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died yesterday at his son's home in Brookline, Mass. 
 Frank E. Smith, a moderate Mississippi Democrat who spent 12 years in Congress at a time when moderates of any stripe were an endangered species in Mississippi, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson. He was 79 and had served in the House from 1951 to 1962, when his consistent support of K
 Herb Friedwald, a jazz producer, jazz historian and lawyer whose interests ranged from the most traditional New Orleans music to the most abstract free-jazz, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 62 years old. The cause was heart failure, said his son, the jazz cr
 Mario Pittoni, who served for 25 years as a justice of New York State Supreme Court, the first Democrat to be elected to that post on Long Island, died on Sunday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Lynbrook, N.Y. Justice Pittoni, a former prosecutor an
 Michael J. Tully Jr., a Republican State Senator from Long Island who was instrumental in passing New York's ban on smoking in public buildings, died early yesterday at his home in Flower Hill. He was 64. The Nassau County police said he suffered a heart attack after returning home 
 Horace Bristol, a giant of photo-journalism, a man whose images of Depression-era despair in the United States, wartime heroism in the Pacific and postwar poverty and hope in rural Korea have been ranked with the great pictures of the century, died on Monday at a hospital in Ojai, Calif. A 
 BARB-Jacob S., M.D. on August 6, 1997. Columbia College Class of 1928, Columbia P&S 1931. Beloved husband of Bernice (Bunny). Devoted father of Madeleine Haley. Dear brother of Dr. Julius Barb and Dorothy Budd. Shiva at home. Contributions may be made to Columbia P&S, Temple Emanu-El, 1 Eas
 FARRELL-Paul V., at age 81 on August 6th. A resident of Barre, MA., and formerly of Oceanside, NY. He was predeceased by his wife, Maude Whitbread Farrell. He is survived by his wife, Theodora Cogley Farrell; his children: Barbara McTiernan, Paul, Mary, Rita and Peter Farrell; his sons and 
 GARFINKEL-Charles, of Far Rockaway, NY, August 2, 1997. Age 78. Devoted husband of the late Allegra, cherished father of Nina J. Garfinkel of New York City, and Dr. Mark D. Garfinkel of Chicago. His unique combination of wisdom, wit, and compassion deeply inspired all who knew him. He is so
 GENAUER-Rabbi Sam. On August 5, 1997. In his 91st year, after a life of goodness, devotion to family and community, and learning and teaching Torah. Beloved husband of Sylvia Genauer. Loving father of Judy and Irv Brickman, Blu and Yitz Greenberg, Rena and Shelly Schlaff. Devoted brother of
 PRAGER-Carl. Of Westport, CT. and New York, N.Y. Died Tuesday, August 5, 1997, at the age of 84. Beloved husband of Ellen. Loving father of Catherine and Michael Devine. Grandfather of Jacqueline and uncle of Lawrence, Eileen and David. A loyal friend and wise counselor. Funeral services wi
 SMITH-Robert, of Lenox, MA., died on a fishing trip in Coburn Gore, Maine on August 4, 1997 at the age of 91. Distinguished author of fiction and non-fiction. Beloved husband of Jean (nee Kelly) Smith, father of Anvil, Pam, Bob and Nora, father-in-law of Deejay and Dian, grandfather of Ben,
 LISKIN-Elliot. August 7, 1986-1997 Eleven years today. The warmth of his laughter... generous deeds... integrity... kind and loving ways... and ''the memories linger on''. Children, grandchildren and Joyce       
 Paul W. Williams, who served as a United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York in the 1950's and also as a Special Assistant Attorney General of New York, died on Monday at his home in North Plain Beach, Fla. He was 94. He died after a short illness, said Mary Forcel
 Don Steele, one of the pioneering disk jockeys of top 40 radio in the 60's, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Shaune. Mr. Steele, better known as ''the Real'' Don Steele, became famous not for the songs he played
 Dr. Frank Folke Furstenberg, a Baltimore physician and an advocate of national health care legislation in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at his home. He was 92 and lived in Baltimore. Dr. Furstenberg was the director of the Sinai Hospital Medical Care Clinic in Baltimore and served on 
 BLECHER-Irving E., M.D. Dearly beloved and never to be forgotten husband of Rhoda, devoted father of Louise Rose Gutstein and Lillian Steinmann, adoring grandfather of Jacob Steinmann, proud father-in-law of Dr. Sidney Gutstein. We shall miss him forever. Services today, 11:15, Riverside Me
 FUBINI-Eugene G., of Brookline, MA., Tuesday, August 5, formerly of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of the late Jane Elizabeth. Devoted father of David G. Fubini, Dr. Susan Todd Hunter, Carol Fubini, Laurie Jacobs, Dr. Sandra Willwerth and Dr. Sylvia Fubini. He is also survived by sixteen g
 GROSSMAN-George. Died on August 6, 1997. Survived by his loving companion Mildred whose devotion warmed his life; the spirit of beloved wives Rose and Florence; father Nathan, mother Lena, brother Sidney; grieving cousins Rebecca, Isadore, Blanche, Elaine, Julie, Esther, Adele. Rest, Georgi
 HILL-Frederick, Reverend. Retired Rector of St. Michael's Church, New York City. Longtime Associate at St. James, Madison Avenue, suddenly and peacefully at home in Goshen, N.Y., August 2, 1997. He was 67. Survived by James Kennedy, many relatives and friends. Services Saturday, August 9, a
 KAPLAN-Steven. The Board of Governors and Members of Cold Spring Country Club deeply mourn the recent passing of our member of forty years. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Judith, and his children, Randall, Karin and Eric Greenberg, and Jillian, and grandchild, Drew. Ste
 KATZKI-Herbert. HIAS mourns the passing of Herbert Katzki, a force in rescue programs of WWII and reconstruction of the Jewish community in Europe. His lifelong Commitment to the dignity of humanity inspired all. HIAS extends condolences to his wife, Kate and to JDC. Norman D. Tilles, Presi
 LINCER-William. The Juilliard School mourns the death of William Lincer distinguished member of the faculty since 1969 and one of the most prominent and respected violists of this century. At Juilliard he developed an extraordinarily strong class of violists who went on to become profession
 ROTH-Henry B. Born Brooklyn, New York, on June 10, 1908. Previously resided in New York City, Mamaroneck, NY, Los Angeles, CA, La Quinta, CA. Died August 4, 1997 at his residence in Montecito, California. Survived by his wife Babette Langdon Roth.       
 SINGER-Edwin McMahon. On August 6, 1997. Attorney for over 60 years in New York City. Survived by wife Rita, daughter Patricia Hamilton and grandson Todd Hamil ton. Reposing at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Friday 35PM and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday 11AM, St. Thoma
 Peter Ambler Carruthers, a physicist at the University of Arizona and former head of the theoretical division at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, died on Sunday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 61. The cause was liver failure, the university said. Dr. Carruthers's inte
 Sidney Simon, a sculptor and a founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine, died on Monday at his summer home in Truro, Mass. He was 80 and also lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Mark said. Mr. Simon's work, which has 
 Col. Albert F. Schoepper, the White House music consultant and leader of ''The President's Own'' Marine Band for 17 years until he retired in 1972, died on July 29 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Arlington, Va. He had suffered a stroke, a band spokes
 John Brailsford Elliott, a former chairman of the National Data Corporation who was a leading collector of Chinese art, died on July 25 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He lived in Princeton, N.J.,  and was 69. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
 ABEL-Reuben. The New School and its Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science have lost a deeply beloved and respected member on the passing of Reuben Abel. The University extends its heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marion; their children, Richard and Elizabeth; and their four gra
 GILBERT-Harris, Friday, August 8th, 1997, of Westfield. Beloved husband of Sally (nee Klein). Devoted father of Carol and Jeffrey Singer and Bruce and Beth Gilbert. Loving grandfather of Matthew, Michael, Ryan, Jamie and Tori. Funeral services conducted 10:00 A.M. Sunday, August 10, 1997 fr
 HOWE-Robert K., age 65, died of congestive heart failure on August 4, 1997. Mr. Howe, the son of the late Luman B. Howe and Dorothy (Hallett) Howe, grew up in Montpelier, Vermont. He attended Montpelier schools, and graduated from Kimball Union Academy in Meredith, New Hampshire. He was a 1
 MALOZEMOFF-Plato. A visionary leader of the American Mining Industry, Plato Malozemoff, passed away on Aug 8, 1997 at the age of 88 from congestive heart failure. For 30 years he lead Newmont Mining Corp as President and CEO and held many directorships. A man of high principles and steadfas
 McANIFF-Edward P., 86, on August 7th. Former Chief of Department, NYFD. Husband of the late Charlotte, his much loved partner of 60 years. Father of Elizabeth, Roger, Diane, Edward Jr. and the late Frederic. Private memorial service. Donations may be made to NYFD Burn Center Foundation, 21 
 PRAGER-David A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of David A. Prager, friend and longtime supporter of the Whitney's many programs. He will be warmly remembered for his steadfast support of American artists and his dedi
 ROTH-Henry B. Born Brooklyn, New York, on June 10, 1908. Previously resided in New York City, Mamaroneck, NY, Los Angeles, CA, La Quinta, CA. Died August 4, 1997 at his residence in Montecito, California. Survived by his wife Babette Langdon Roth.       
 SIMON-Sidney. The Sculptors Guild deeply mourns the passing of its longtime member, Sidney Simon. His wisdom, charm and many diverse contributions to the Guild will be long remembered and his fine sculpture creates a living memorial. We wish to extend our sympathy to his family.       
 SINGER-Edwin McMahon. On August 6, 1997. Attorney for over 60 years in New York City. Survived by wife Rita, daughter Patricia Hamilton and grandson Todd Hamil ton. Reposing at The Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Friday 35PM and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday 11AM, St. Thoma
 WEINBLATT-Ira, on August 6, 1997. Lovingly remembered for his heart & laughter by wife Judy, daughters Amy, Jennifer, Emily, brother Jules, sister-in-law Elaine, niece Margery, nephew Michael, granddaughter Lucy, son-in-law Phillip, and close circle of friends. Memorial services Sunday 1:15
 WILLIAMS-Paul W. The trustees, administration, faculty and alumni/ae of Bard College mourn the passing of a loyal colleague and friend, Paul Williams, Life Trustee Emeritus of Bard. His leadership as Chairman of the College's Board of Trustees from 1964 to 1974 and his distinguished legal c
 Paul Rudolph, an architect whose chareer epitomized the turbulence that engulfed American modernism in the 1960's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was mesothelioma, or asbestos cancer, according to Ernst Wagner, a close friend.       
 Saul Poliak, an innovator in industry trade shows and a major donor to his alma mater, Columbia University, died Aug. 2 at his home in West Redding, Conn. He was 92. Mr. Poliak's company, Clapp & Poliak, which he founded with Truman Clapp in 1929, was one of the first to manage trad
 Alexander Cordell, the author of the best-selling 1959 novel ''Rape of the Fair Country,'' about Welsh iron-workers and their struggle for union rights at the turn of the century, was found dead on July 9 near Llangollen, Denbighshire, in Wales, The Independent, the British newspaper, repor
 Herbert Katzki, an official of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee for six decades who helped salvage thousands of uprooted lives in Europe and the Middle East, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a fall. He was 89 and lived on Manhattan's East Side. Mr. Katzk
 BENVENUTO-Nicholas, on August 9, 1997, of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of Ayn. Dear father of Robert and Karyn. Father-in-law of Rozalyn. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Sunday from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM. Funeral Mass on Monday at St. Aloysius 
 ELLIOTT-John B. With great sadness, The Art Museum, Princeton University, mourns the loss of John B. Elliott, dear friend and generous benefactor, and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family. Allen Rosenbaum, Director       
 EVANS-Gerard E., Dr., of Brunswick, ME., formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y., died suddenly on August 6, 1997. A graduate of the University of Arkansas and New York Medical College, class of 1945. Served as a captain in the Army Medical Corps in the Phillipines and Korea. He practiced obstetrics and
 GILBERT-Harris. With profound sorrow the Officers, Board and Staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations mourn the death of a cherished friend and colleague. An activist and courageous leader, he served our Movement with unique devotion for decades. His care and concern touched virt
 LIPSAY-Alan W. Family and friends mourn his death, of cancer, on August 1, 1997 in San Jose, Costa Rica. Mr. Lipsay was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. in 1930, graduated from Lincoln High School, Brooklyn College and Columbia Law School. He raised his family in Manhasset Hills and was active in maj
 MALOZEMOFF-Plato. A visionary leader of the American Mining Industry, Plato Malozemoff, passed away on Aug 8, 1997 at the age of 88 from congestive heart failure. For 30 years he lead Newmont Mining Corp as President and CEO and held many directorships. A man of high principles and steadfas
 ROTH-Henry B. Born Brooklyn, New York, on June 10, 1908. Previously resided in New York City, Mamaroneck, NY, Los Angeles, CA, La Quinta, CA. Died August 4, 1997 at his residence in Montecito, California. Survived by his wife Babette Langdon Roth.       
 RUDERMAN-Stanley. August 9, 1997. Husband of Isabel (nee Louis) of Cherry Hill. Father of Amy, Wendy and David Ruderman. Services Monday, 12 noon, Platt Memorial Chapels Inc., 2001 Berlin Rd., Cherry Hill, NJ. The family will return to the late residence and respectfully request contributio
 SHEA-Peter Lane, of Locust Valley, LI, died suddenly and peacefully at his home in Northeast Harbor, ME, on August 9th. He was 64. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Sage Shea, his sisters, Edwina Millington and Betty Rouss, and his four sons, Chris, Andy, Ed and Jamie Shea. He is the grandf
 SIMON-Sidney. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend whose inspired artistry contributed so much to the dignity and beauty of the Jewish Chapel at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. Visitors are tremendously impressed with his creation of the tablets and the ark door
 SPANIERMAN-Jonathan, age 34, died on August 1, 1997 of AIDS at his home in East Hampton with his beloved wife Cheryl and his adoring mother and father Helen and Ira after a long and valiant battle. He was a musician and a composer of beautiful music that will live in our hearts forever. He 
 Roy Herbert Steinberg, a neurophysiologist at the University of California at San Francisco who helped explain the structure and function of the retina, died on July 26 at his home in San Francisco. He was 61. The cause was multiple myeloma, a bone marrow cancer, his family said.   
 Herbert Jose de Souza, a Brazilian sociologist who became the figure most identified with fighting inequality, hunger and police brutality in his country, died Saturday night at his home in the Botafogo section of Rio. He was 60. The Brazilian radio reported the cause of death as li
 BESSO-David V. On August 9, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Yetta Besso; beloved father of Vida Lapins; cherished grandfather of Ruth Resciniti; adored greatgrandfather of Chandler Paige. Loved and mourned by all who knew him. Services, Robert Schoem Chapel, Rte 4, Paramus, NJ, Monday, Au
 HAIDAS-Constantine V., 68, of Centerville, MA, August 7, 1997, in La Jolla, CA. Husband of Anne (Goussias) Haidas. Father of Katherine and Despina of Greece; brother of James G. Haidas of Osterville, MA. Funeral service 10:30 AM, Wednesday, in St. George Greek Orthodox Church, 1130 Falmouth
 NOLAN-James B. Jr. Of Bronxville, NY. Died August 9, 1997, of complications from surgery at age 46. Beloved son of the late James B. Nolan and Joan O'Halloran Giddings Nolan. Loving brother of Anne Giddings Murphy and Jane Giddings McCarthy. Brother-in-law of Vincent Murphy and Edward McCar
 SHEA-Peter Lane, of Locust Valley, LI, died suddenly and peacefully at his home in Northeast Harbor, ME, on August 9th. He was 64. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Sage Shea, his sisters, Edwina Millington and Betty Rouss, and his four sons, Chris, Andy, Ed and Jamie Shea. He is the grandf
 WEINBLATT-Ira. The Gremlins of Arverne sadly mourn the passing of our dear friend. A loving husband, a devoted father and a successful advertising executive, Ira was a man of high principles and an inspiration to those of us who knew him for so many decades.       
 Peter Braestrup, a former war correspondent for The New York Times and The Washington Post who became an authority on the relationship between the press and the military, died yesterday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Maine, where he had been on vacation. He was 68 and lived in Washingto
 Robert E. Pike, who grew up in northern Vermont enchanted by the tales of the imposing, spiked-booted loggers who swaggered down the Connecticut River and camped on his uncle's farm, tousling his hair and feeding him sugar cookies from the cook tent before pushing off for the pulp mills dow
 Walter I. Farmer, who was awarded a high German medal last year for having protested, as an American Army captain in Germany in the months after World War II, his superiors' decision to ship artworks including paintings by Rembrandt and Rubens to the United States, died on Saturday at Chris
 William Lincer, the principal violist of the New York Philharmonic from 1943 to 1972, died on July 31 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, Mary, said the cause was an aneurysm. Mr. Lincer was born in Malverne, N.Y.
 Conlon Nancarrow, an expatriate American composer whose frustrations with the limitations of live performance technique led him to compose almost exclusively for mechanical player pianos, and who was widely regarded as one of the few truly visionary composers of the century, died on Sunday 
 Louis Blaise Inturrisi, a Rome-based travel and food writer who also taught writing, was found dead in his apartment in the city's Monteverdi section last week, the police said. He was 54. The authorities said they consider Mr. Inturrisi's death a homicide and are still investigatin
 Nicholas J. Hoff, professor emeritus of aeronautics and astronautics at Stanford University, who helped devise and develop the fragile aluminum skins of ever-faster aircraft from the 1940's into the supersonic age, died on Aug. 4 at his home on the Stanford campus. He was 91. An aer
 ALDRIDGE-Edwin Patrick Kevin. Died in Los Angeles, California on August 10, 1997, of chronic hepatitis B. Memorial services will be held on August 20th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 12:15 P.M. He is surived by his closest friend, Fred Ebb.       
 BAEL-Robert L. On August 10, 1997 at his home in Stamford, Conn. Loving husband of Alice Minton Bael. Loving father of Dr. Nancy Bael, Lisa Bael Aman and Timothy Bael. Brother of Howard Bael and Martin Bael. Also pre-deceased by son Jonathan Bael. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, Augu
 CROSS-Deming Stedman, Jr., 49, of NYC. A banker at Barclay's Bank of New York, he died August 11 at the New York University Hospital after an extended illness. He was born in Providence, RI, April 28, 1948, the son of Deming and Dorothy Cross of Wakefield, R.I. and Beaufort, S.C. He leaves 
 DEUTSCHER-Bernard. Born May 18, 1915, passed away on August 10, 1997. The grave site service will be on Thursday, August 14, 1997 at 10:30 AM at the Beth David Cemetry in Elmont. He is survived by his wife Elsie, son Allan, two daughters Freda and Jane and seven grand children: Matthew, And
 FIELD-Edward, Sr., 96, passed away August 7, 1997 at his home in Newport Beach, CA. He was born in Rye, New York in Westchester County, on April 29, 1901. He met and married Emogene Lewis, his wife of 61 years, in Olathe, Kansas, in October of 1935. He was formerly the president of Childs R
 HERLING-Albert. Age 82. Union labor journalist. Of New York City and Washington, D.C. Died May 31, 1997. He is survived by his wife, Frances, three children Karene Lagrone, Erica Magrum and Konrad Herling, two grandchildren Sheila Marie Robinson and Bryan Magrum and three sisters, Paula Jac
 MOORE-Peter R. On August 11, 1997. Adored husband of Suzanne. Loving son to Nathan, Bernice, Stephen and Nancy. Dear brother to Stephanie, David and Robert. Cherished uncle of Ross and Cameron. Peter, you died all too soon, but your love and kindness will continue to live through us all for
 SHEA-Peter Lane. The Strang Cancer Prevention Center notes with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed Board member and Treasurer, Peter L. Shea. For many years, Peter unstintingly gave of himself for the benefit of those served by Strang, and he will be long remembered with respect an
 SWAIM-J. Carter, Ph.D., D.D., a Presbyterian minister and former professor at the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, died on Thursday, August 7th, at the age of 93, in Washington, PA. Dr. Swaim was a graduate of Washington & Jefferson College in Washington, PA and the Western Theological Semi
 Peter Braestrup, a former war correspondent for The New York Times and The Washington Post who became an authority on the relationship between the press and the military, died on Sunday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., where he had been on vacation. He was 68 and lived in W
 Rudolf Lewis Baer, a dermatologist who spent nearly 50 years on the faculty of the New York University School of Medicine, 20 as department chairman, died on July 31 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family sai
 Norman B. Ture, an uncompromising advocate of supply-side economics and an architect of the 1981 tax cut that was one of the largest in the nation's history, died on Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a friend, Barry Rogstad.      
 ALDRIDGE-Edwin Patrick Kevin. Died in Los Angeles, California on August 10, 1997, of chronic hepatitis B. Memorial services will be held on August 20th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 12:15 P.M. He is surived by his closest friend, Fred Ebb.       
 ANDREI-Jean, 71, on August 11, after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Beloved lifelong companion of William C. Brown, he is also survived by his mother, Josette Andrei, of Nice, France. The lives of his many friends will be forever diminished by the loss of this bright, talented, ge
 APPLETON-Charles W., formerly of Darien, Connecticut, died on August 12 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where he resided. A long-time Darien resident, he is survived by two sons, Charles W. Appleton, Jr. and Oliver Appleton, II, a sister, Joan G.A. Stone, and several nephews and nieces. Mr. Ap
 BALLEY-Arthur. Passed away on August 6, 1997 after a short illness. He is survived by his son Murray, daughter-in-law Myra, his daughter Ann and son-in-law Arnold, his grandchildren Andrea, Howard, Jacqueline and Jeffrey, and his great grandchildren Chelsea, Danielle and Jordan. We will all
 FOLB-Jay. Writer, Producer. Died August 10th after a prolonged illness. Survived by his wife, Blossom; sister and brother-in-law, Minna and Sam Alperin and their son, Dr. Neil Alperin and his family. For information Pierce Brothers Westwood Village, Los Angeles.       
 GANCHOFF-Moshe Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly notes with sorrow the passing of our teacher, mentor, friend and one of the outstanding luminaries of the ''Golden Age of Hazzanut.'' He was a leading exponent of traditional contemporary Hazzanut. Moshe touched thousands of Jewish souls with his 
 GINSBERG-Richard D. On August 11, 1997. Son of Jerry and the late Blanche. Brother of Robert. Brother-in-law of Cynthia. Uncle of Rachel. He also leaves behind a loving and devoted band of uncles, aunts, cousins and friends. Services 12 noon, Wednesday, August 13, Riverside-Nassau North Cha
 INTURRISI-Louis. The members of the Department of Pharmacology, Cornell University Medical College, express our heartfelt condolences to our dear colleague, Dr. Charles Inturrisi, on the death of his beloved brother, Louis. Louis' writings gave pleasure to all of us and we will miss them. W
 MAHON-Thomas Francis. Galway City and Springfield, Il. Tuesday August 12, peacefully in hospital in Springfield. Sadly missed by his sister, brothers, sisters-in-law, nephews, nieces, relatives and friends. Funeral in Springfield.       
 MOORE-Peter R. Our sincerest sympathies to our loving cousins and friends, Nancy, Stephen, Sandra, Suzanne and Robert on the passing of their beloved Peter. They were privileged to have known and to share the fineness of his being. May sweet memories of Peter be a blessing for the entire fa
 MOORE-Roy W., Jr. The Board of Trustees, administration and staff of St Lukes Roosevelt Hospital Center mourn the passing of our distinguished Honorary Trustee. Mr. Moore joined the board of the Roosevelt Hospital in 1964 and served with distinction until 1979, when he became an Honorary Tr
 ONYANGO-Okello. 66, born in Lake Nyanza, Kenya, passed away August 8, 1997. A professor at Brooklyn College for over 30 years, Okello is survived by his wife Dorothy and four children. For services call Roy L. Gilmore Funeral Home 718-529-3030.       
 OREMLAND-Gustave, D.D.S. On August 12, 1997. Dearly loved by his wife Harriet, daughter Julie, son Michael, daughter-in-law Rana, grandson Jeremy, granddaughter Sarah, and brother Benjamin. Remembered with affection by his family, friends and patients. Services Friday, 1:15 p.m. at ''The Ri
 PETERMAN-Dr. Richard Lee. Age 74 of Madison, NJ. Died August 8, 1997 at the Lutheran Home of Moorestown, NJ. He is survived by his wife Betty Shogren Peterman of Madison, NJ, two sons, Richard Lee, Jr. and David D. a daughter, Rebecca Johnsen, a brother Earl Linwood and seven grandchildren.
 SCHACHER-Etta. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the community, beloved mother of Henry (and Beverly) Schachar and Teddy (and Sharon) Schachar. Henry Schachar, a Director of our Sy Syms School of Business and a Trustee of the affiliated Rabbi 
 SHEA-Peter Lane, of Locust Valley, N.Y. died suddenly and peacefully at his home in Northeast Harbor, Maine on August 9. He was 64. He is survived by his wife Nancy Sage Shea, his 4 sons; Chris, Andy, Ed and Jamie Shea, his 7 grandchildren and his sisters Edwina Millington and Betty Rouss. 
 SHERMAN-Harold. Shrine Masons, New York City. It is with great regret that the passing of Harold Sherman is sadly noted. He served Mecca Temple AAONMS as its potentate with great distinction in the year 1961. Beloved husband, father, friend and devoted philanthropist. His loss closes anothe
 SIEGEL-Irving Michael, MD. Devoted physician, always possessed of a smile, boundless generosity and an interest in everything. Deeply loved by his sons Jefferson and Franklin, now happily reunited with his beloved wife Constance. Private funeral.       
 STONE-Leo, M.D. Nothing human was alien to this great man. With courtesy, rationality, and warmth, he showed a way other than the cold blank screen.       
 VOSTAL-Joseph, of Tenafly, NJ formerly of Englewood, NJ on August 11, 1997. Husband of the late Edna (nee Tracy). Devoted father of Robert T. Vostal. Loving brother of George Vostal. Dear grandfather of Robert, Tracy and Kenneth. Great grandfather of Kelly, Hannah, Nicholas, Kurt and Lauren
 Rex Barney, whose no-hitter for the Brooklyn Dodgers against the New York Giants in 1948 was the crowning point of a baseball career shackled by his inability to get the ball over the plate consistently, died yesterday at his home in Baltimore. He was 72. Barney, the Baltimore Oriol
 Roy Gerrard, an author and illustrator who charmed children with his bouncy rhymes and thumb-shaped characters acting out their adventures -- and misadventures -- in sumptuous period settings, died on Aug. 5 in his native England. He was 62 and lived in Stockport, Cheshire. The caus
 Dr. Reuben Abel, a writer on humanism and a professor emeritus of philosophy at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 85 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. After he received his Ph.D. from the New School in 1952, Dr. Abel taught f
 Emil (Bus) Mosbacher Jr., who skippered two winning teams in the America's Cup races and shepherded visiting diplomats through official Washington as the State Department's chief of protocol in the Nixon Administration, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75. The c
 Evan J. Kemp Jr., who had to take a Government job in 1964 because nobody else would hire a disabled  lawyer, died at a hospital near his home in Washington on Tuesday, satisfied that he had helped to make the world a bit more accepting of people like him. He was 60 and, as the chairman of 
 BRAESTRUP-Peter, suddenly on August 10, 1997, in Rockland, Maine. Survived by his wife, Sandra Newing of Washington, his mother Elsebet Braestrup of Hamden, Connecticut; his sister, Ellen Strickler of New York City; his three children from a former marriage, Angelica Braestrup Cunningham of
 FRANCE-Joan L. We note with sorrow the death of Joan, the beloved wife of chairman and CEO Bill France, and extend to him, Cheryl and Bill Jr. our deepest sympathies at this sad time. Directors, Officers and Employees of Strahl and Pitsch, Inc. FRANCE-Joan L. We extend to our dear f
 GENITE-Bobby S. on August 12, 1997 after a long illness. A Philippino-American, Bobby came to New York in 1975, loved it here and stayed. He got work as an accountant and was soon able to lead the life he wanted. He loved dance and danced for the Philippine Dance Company in the late 70's. H
 HULLEY-Roger M. Bloom. 41, of Gardiner, NY, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died on Monday Aug. 11th of AIDS-related PML. A graduate of Brown University and Columbia Law School, Roger was an assoc. attorney at Skadden Arps in NYC. As a long-term AIDS survivor, he was active in his community, lea
 JENKINSON-William H., on Aug. 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Carolyn (nee Taylor). Loved by many-family and friends. Private Cremation. Memorial Mass to be held at St. Bede's Episcopal Church, 220 Berry Hill Rd., Syosset, N.Y., date to be announced. Donations in his memory can be made to St. 
 MARX-Richard H. ''Dick'', 73, beloved husband of Ruth, nee Guildoo. Loving father of Nancy (Tom) Shanley, Jim Marx, Judy Marx and Richard (Cynthia) Marx. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and Ryan Shanley, Brandon, Lucas and Jesse Marx. A memorial service will be held Thursday 3pm at The Piser
 MOORE-Peter R. Children of Bellevue, Inc. extend heartfelt condolences to the family of Mr. Peter Moore, in particular, his wife, Suzanne Sloan, our friend and Corporate Board Member. The Board of Directors and Junior Committee Children of Bellevue, Inc. Bellevue Hospital Center       
 PERKIN-John Thorne, of Fairfield, Conn. and Nantucket, Mass. died peacefully in New York on August 12, 1997 after a brief illness. Loving husband of Elizabeth (Betsy) and devoted father of Christopher, Thorne, and Richard. Also survived by his mother, Mrs. Richard S. Perkin of New Canaan, C
 RUDOLPH-Paul. The American Institute of Architects, New York Chapter, mourns the death of Paul Rudolph, FAIA. He was an enthusiastic colleague, rigorous mentor, and impassioned designer. He was devoted to the possibilities of modern architecture. His drawings and buildings, compositions of 
 SELIG-Donald Joseph (Don), M.D., Ph.D., age 54, of 103-2 Continental Plaza, Elizabeth City, NC, died Tuesday, August 12, 1997, at The Duke University Medical Center in Durham, NC. A native of Jamaica, NY, Dr. Selig was the son of Edith Gordon Selig of New York City and the late George Raymo
 SHEA-Peter L. The Board of Directors and staff of Allegheny Power System, Inc. observe with sorrow the sudden death of their colleague, fellow Board member, and friend, Peter L. Shea. We appreciate his dedicated service to our company and will remember his considerate ways and joy in life d
 SPEDALLE-Joseph W. Age 76, passed away in his sleep Thursday, July 31, 1997 at his home in Florida. He was an Army Veteran of WWII. He spent most of his life in New York and belonged to Service Lodge #       
 SULLIVAN-Roger W. On August 12th, beloved husband of Susan; devoted father of Farley and stepfather of Mark and Warren Dabney; loving brother of Barry. Outstanding educator and principal of Smithtown High School. In lieu of flowers and gifts, donations appreciated in his name to the America
 ZIOLKOWSKI - ANGUS - Cynthia. The Board of Directors and staff of Project Return Foundaiton express our heartfelt condolences to our Vice Chairperson, Bruno E. Ziolkowski and his wife Maria, on the death of their beloved daughter Cynthia. We grieve together with the rest of the family and s
 Carlton Moss, a filmmaker, writer, cultural scholar and social critic, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. It is a reflection of the black experience in Hollywood that the man who became a revered inspiration to generations of black actors, scriptwr
 Jack Delano, one of the few surviving members of the group of photographers who fanned out throughout the United States in the 1930's and 40's on behalf of the New Deal's Farm Security Administration and produced what have become iconic images of the Great Depression, died on Tuesday at a h
 AL-JUNDI-Akil. The staff, including 1199 and the Association of Legal Aid Attorneys, the management and the Board of Directors of the Legal Aid Society mourn the death of Akil Al-Jundi, who devoted the last 20 years of his life to assisting persons caught up in the criminal justice system a
 GIOVANNETTI-Robert J. Passed away August 13, 1997. Survived by his wife Gale F; children Joseph D. and Mary Elizabeth Giovannetti. Parents Daniel and Mary Giovannetti. Also many aunts, uncles and cousins. He was a partner of the law firm of Jackson, Lewis, Schnitzler & Krupman. The partners
 HAAS-Albert B., MD. The entire community of New York University School of Medicine mourn the loss of our distinguished and loyal colleague Dr. Albert B. Haas. Over the years, his serivce to NYU as a foremost member of the faculty brought immeasurable knowledge, talent and grace to our acade
 LEBAUER-Lawrence R., August 13. Husband of Ellen (nee Stein). Father of Andrew Lebauer, Robin Lebauer, Marisa (John) Westcott and Ian Lebauer. Brother of Eugene Lebauer. Relatives and friends are invited to funeral services, Sunday, 10:30AM, at Temple Adath Israel, Old Lancaster Road and Hi
 MALDONADO-Roger William. Of New Vernon, NJ on Wednesday, August 13, 1997. Husband of Joan Burwell Maldonado. Father of Andrew R. of Summit, NJ; Matthew B. of New Vernon, NJ and Mark M. of Manhattan. Son of Miguel and Zelphia Maldonado of Spring Hill, Fla. Also survived by a grandson, Michae
 MALTON-S. Donald, M.D. A plastic surgeon who practiced in Morristown and Dover, N.J. since 1959, died of a brain tumor. He graduated from University of Michigan and University of Michigan Medical School. He completed his residency in Plastic Surgery from Columbia Presbyterian Hospital and w
 MOSBACHER-Emil ''Bus'', Jr., 75, died Wednesday, August 13, at home in Greenwich, CT. Devoted husband of Patricia Ryan. Dear father of Emil III, R. Bruce and John. Loving father-in-law of Nancy. Adored grandfather of Jack and Emily. Dear brother of Barbara, brother of Robert. A memorial wil
 PERKIN-John Thorne, of Fairfield, Conn. and Nantucket, Mass. died peacefully in New York on August 12, 1997 after a brief illness. Loving husband of Elizabeth (Betsy) and devoted father of Christopher, Thorne, and Richard. Also survived by his mother, Mrs. Richard S. Perkin of New Canaan, C
 RAPPAPORT-Carl. The Board of Directors, Staff and Families of the Association for Children with Retarded Mental Development joins the Rappaport family in mourning the passing of Carl Rappaport, an incorporator of the Association and a past President of the Board. An advocate for people with
 Donald I. Fine, a publisher who was known for nurturing the careers of such best-selling authors as Ken Follett, Andrew Vachss and Elmore Leonard, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his son, Stephen. In an era when publishing com
 Edmund Astley Prentis 3d, a principal of the international engineering company Spencer, White and Prentis Inc. of New York and a champion croquet player, died on Monday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 73. His son Peter said the cause of death was congestive heart failure.  
 Martin Diskin, a professor of anthropology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an authority on agrarian economies in Latin America, died on Aug. 3 in Mount Auburn hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 62 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had leukemia, the M.I.T. news offic
 ABELOFF-Abram J., M.D. On August 15, 1997. At age 97. After a short illness. Devoted husband of Gertrude and loving father of Tobias. Graveside service to be held. Donations to Lenox Hill Hospital would be deeply appreciated. ABELOFF-Abram, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff 
 CHARET-William A. We note with profound sorrow the passing of our dear friend and colleaque William A. Charet, affectionately known as Bill. He touched many of his co-workers with his brilliance and his compassion. Bill was a dedicated public servant whose wise counsel will be greatly misse
 GEROWITZ-Charles. On Thursday, August 14, 1997, of NY, NY. Beloved husband of Leanore, devoted father of Marilyn (Dr. Joel) Klein, Joan Reynolds (Dr. Mark Abensohn), Nancy (Scott) Robins & Robert (Kate) Gerowitz. Loving brother of Harry, Ben and Shrley Burger. Adoring grandfather of Gary, J
 MOSBACHER-Emil Jr. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Emil Mosbacher, Jr., a devoted friend and benefactor of the Hospital and husband of Patricia Mosbacher whose many years of outstanding servi
 PERKIN-John Thorne, of Fairfield, Conn. and Nantucket, Mass. died peacefully in New York on August 12, 1997 after a brief illness. Loving husband of Elizabeth (Betsy) and devoted father of Christopher, Thorne, and Richard. Also survived by his mother, Mrs. Richard S. Perkin of New Canaan, C
 SCHEFF-Samuel Edward, 89 years old, on August 15, 1997. Husband of Frances L. Scheff, father of Trudy Brown and Joan Lipsitz, father-in-law of Julius Brown and Paul Stiller. Devoted grandfather of Cathy, Susan, Annie and Jonathan. Great grandfather of Gabby, Zoe, Lucy Kate, Aaron Jeremy, an
 SCHWARTZ-Jean. The Partners, Associates and staff of the law firm of O'Donnell, Schwartz, Glanstein & Rosen are saddened by the passing of Jean Schwartz, wife of our Founding Partner, Asher Schwartz. Jean's charm, intellect, perceptiveness and grace will always be remembered. We extend our 
 STONE-Leo, M.D. Nothing human was alien to this great man. With courtesy, rationality, and warmth, he showed a way other than the cold, blank screen. Jeremy R. Mack, M.D.       
 The Rev. Frederick Hill, who as the ninth rector of St. Michael's Episcopal Church breathed new life into what had been a moribund parish on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 2 at his home in Goshen, N.Y. Father Hill, who retired as rector in 1992, was 67. The cause was
 Duke Zeibert, a wise-cracking, back-slapping restaurateur who for almost half a century ran the Washington establishment's favorite power-lunch spot, died today at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86. He had been suffering from heart disease and cancer since closing the restaurant t
 Drummond Matthews, a geophysicist whose work provided a critical underpinning for the theory that the earth's crust consists of large rigid plates, died on July 20 in Taunton, England. He was 66 and lived in the nearby town of Porlock. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at
 Frank Bertino, the former teacher, football coach and athletic director at Riverdale Country School who ranks second in victories among high school coaches in New York State, died last Sunday at his home in Yorktown, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said Bob Clark, a clo
 Frederic A. C. Wardenburg 3d, a career Du Pont executive who interrupted his life as a staid businessman to jounce off across Europe behind advancing Allied troops on a top secret mission in the waning days of World War II, died on Aug. 10 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92.  
 Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the Pakistani singer whose thrilling voice carried Sufi devotional songs to the world, died yesterday in London. He was 48. Mr. Khan, who suffered from problems with his liver and his weight, came to London last week for medical and business reasons. He was ru
 ALDRIDGE-Edwin Patrick Kevin. Died in Los Angeles, California on August 10, 1997, of chronic hepatitis B. Memorial services will be held on August 20th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 12:15 P.M. He is survived by his closest friend, Fred Ebb.       
 CHARET-William A. Beloved husband of Diane; devoted father of Jason; loving son of Elsie; dear brother of Judy Waxweiler; cherished son-in-law, brother-in-law and uncle. We will miss him dearly. He was Associate Commissioner of the NYC Department of Mental Health, Retardation and Alcohol Se
 GEISEL-Eike. Writer and journalist. Died on August 6, at age 52, in Berlin, Germany. We miss him. Atina Grossmann Frank Mecklenburg       
 HAAS-Albert. The entire Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of the NYU School of Medicine is greatly saddened by the death of this distinguished colleague. Dr. Haas was one of the fathers of the field of Pulmonary Rehabilitation. He headed for many years the Pulmonary Rehabilitation Servi
 HOCHBERG-Morris. In his 85th year, on August 15, 1997. He was the dedicated husband of Ruth (Gersh). Beloved father of Fred and Josh, and proud grandfather of Ephraim, Benjamin, Natasha, Jeremy and Ian. His passing is mourned by Carol and Cynthia, his brother Lou and the members of the ''34
 MOSBACHER-Emil ''Bus'', Jr., 75, died Wednesday, August 13, at home in Greenwich, CT. Devoted husband of Patricia Ryan. Dear father of Emil III, R. Bruce and John. Loving father-in-law of Nancy. Adored grandfather of Jack and Emily. Dear brother of Barbara, brother of Robert. A memorial wil
 MOSBACHER-Emil, Jr. The Pilgrims of the United States mourn the death of their distinguished Executive Committee Member and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife Patricia and their sons. Henry Luce III, President Mark Dixon, Secretary Eben Pyne, Treasurer       
 PLOWDEN - WARDLAW - Thomas Campbell, 89, of Vero Beach, FL and Nonquitt, MA, died peacefully in Vero Beach on August 14, 1997. Loving husband of Mary and devoted father of James of New York City and Stephen of Taos, New Mexico. Also survived by step-daughter Sally Hasted, stepson Peter Stan
 POLIAK-Saul. The Board of Directors and Staff of the American Civil Liberties Union mourn the passing of a dear and generous friend, Saul Poliak. A respected innovator and business leader in the field of industry trade shows and also a devoted civil libertarian. He leaves behind a stronger 
 SCHWARTZ-Jean. The Partners, Associates and staff of the law firm of O'Donnell, Schwartz, Glanstein & Rosen are saddened by the passing of Jean Schwartz, wife of our Founding Partner, Asher Schwartz. Jean's charm, intellect, perceptiveness and grace will always be remembered. We extend our 
 Chih-Han Sah, a theoretical mathematician at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on July 22 at University Hospital in Stony Brook. He was 62 and lived in Setauket, N.Y. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Among his peers, Dr. Sah was best known fo
 Moshe Ganchoff, a cantor and composer widely acknowledged as one of the last great exponents of the Odessa tradition of liturgical music, died last Monday at a hospital near his home in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. He was 92. During an acclaimed career in which he served as cantor at a
 Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the Pakistani singer whose thrilling voice carried Sufi devotional songs to the world, died on Saturday in London. He was 48. Mr. Khan, who suffered from problems with his liver and his weight, came to London last week for medical and business reasons. He was 
 ALDRIDGE-Edwin Patrick Kevin. Died in Los Angeles, California on August 10, 1997, of chronic hepatitis B. Memorial services will be held on August 20th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue at 12:15 P.M. He is survived by his closest friend, Fred Ebb.       
 KAUFTHAL-Leo. The Moriah School of Englewood mourns the passing of Mr. Leo Kaufthal, father of our esteemed former president, Ilan Kaufthal. The Moriah community will forever be grateful to Ilan for his boundless commitment and visionary leadership. May the remarkable legacy of Leo Kaufthal
 TANSER-Harry. Died August 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Corinne. Devoted father of Julie Keye and Howard, father-in-law of Chip Keye, and grandfather of Elizabeth Keye. Loving stepfather of Wendy Willinger Jones and Jonathan Willinger, grandfather of Emily Jones and Alexandra and Julia Willi
 WEINBERG-Saul David. Age 87 of Hallendale Beach, FL. Died Saturday August 16, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Averie. Beloved father of Stephen Weinberg and Karen and Lawrence Peltz. Adored grandfather of Adam Peltz. Enshrined in the hearts of all who knew him, and those who loved him wil
 WHALEN-Francis W. ''Bud.'' Age 79, of Jupiter, FL, died Friday, August 15, 1997, at Jupiter Medical Center, Jupiter. Born in New York, NY, he had been a resident of Jupiter for 11 years, coming from Sea Cliff, NY. He was the owner and Chairman of the Board of Whalen & Wrenn, Inc, for 46 yea
 Plato Malozemoff, the former chairman and chief executive of the Newmont Mining Corporation, died Aug. 8 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 88 years old and lived in Greenwich. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son, Alexis, said. Mr. Malozemo
 Ray Heatherton, the television Merry Mailman for two decades, as well as a big-band singer and musical comedy star, died on Friday at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had lived there for four years. He had been a longtime resident of Rockville Ce
 William H. Jordy, one of the first historians to chronicle the rise of modern architecture in the United States, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Riverside, R.I. He was 79. The cause was heart failure while swimming in his pool, said Mardges Bacon, a former colleague at Brown Universi
 Fred C. Galda, a retired New Jersey Superior Court judge and former prosecutor and Mayor of Paramus, N.J., died on Thursday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 79 and a resident of Saddle River, N.J. He suffered a long illness, his family said. He was a key figure i
 Harris Gilbert, a New Jersey business executive and a longtime national leader with the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, died on Aug. 8 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 74 and lived in Westfield, N.J. At his death, Mr. Gilbert was chairman of the National Outreach 
 James Starbuck, a ballet dancer who became a pioneering television choreographer and also worked on Broadway and in film musicals, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said J. D. Kessler, who took care of Mr. Starbuck dur
 Legh Knowles, a trumpet player in the Glenn Miller Orchestra who went on to become chairman of Beaulieu Vineyard, one of California's most famous wineries, and a passionate spokesman for all California wines, died on Friday at a convalescent residence near his home in Napa, Calif. He was 78
 CAMPBELL-Richard J. The faculty and students of New York University's Dept of Psychology mourn the death of Richard J. Campbell, a distinguished colleague and dedicated mentor to NYU students for ten years. We express condolences to his family and sadness for the field of industrial organiz
 CHARET-William A. The Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies expresses our deep sorrow at the passing of our friend and esteemed colleague. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. We will miss this special man. Mary D. Redd, President Phillip A. Saperia, Exec Director        
 DE CASTRO-Jose Sergio Tavora. June 20, 1933-August 16, 1997. We will all remember the way he embraced life and captivated those around him. He was successful in all his endeavors: academic, professional and personal. Born in Fortaleza, Brazil, he was the son of Sergio de Castro and Idalina 
 ENTIN-Lester M. Beloved husband of Sally and devoted father of Norma Rappaport and Sheila Lenner and brother Horace Entin and six grandchildren and 2 greatgrandchildren. Services are today 1pm at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Rte 4 East, Paramus, N.J. ENTIN-Lester M. The American 
 HOVAKIMIAN-Aram. The patients and staff of the Division of Substance Abuse of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine are saddened to learn of the death of Aram Hovakimian, their recently retired mentor and colleague. Aram worked in our field for almost thirty years, working for Beth Israel
 KATZENSTEIN-Richard L. Died August 17, 1997 at age 82 in Boca Raton, FL. He was retired from the shipbuilding divisions of Bethlehem Steel and General Dynamics. He is survived by his wife Marian Berliss Katzenstein and seven nieces and nephews.       
 KAUFTHAL-Leo. Beloved husband of Edith Kaufthal, passed away in his 86th year. He was a gentle and righteous person, and a role model for his children and grandchildren. Survived in deep mourning by his children, Judy and Uri Kaufthal, Linda and Ilan Kaufthal, his grandchildren, Jonathan, J
 MILLER-Lawrence. Suddenly on August 16, 1997. Cherished husband of Louise. Devoted father of Susan. Caring brother of Sonia Grossinger. Adored brother-in-law of Elaine Axel and Muriel Poliakoff. Loving uncle to Stephen, Nancy, Jane, Blair, Carol, Donald and Gloria. ''Goodbye my darling boy.
 ROGERS - Anthony Nicholas, passed away August 16, 1997 in Los Angeles, California. He was born March 24, 1953 in Pasadena, CA., and owned a food importing business in Los Angeles and an art gallery in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He is survived by his sister, Maria A. Rogers, his brother, George M
 TODD-David. On August 12, 1997. In Lebanon, N.H., of injuries following an automobile accident. An inspired teacher of organic chemistry and research chemist for 30 years at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and at other colleges and research centers, graduate of Swarthmore College, B.A. and 
 WILLIAMS-M. Dean. Died July 12, 1997, in Anchorage, AK. Born in Salt Lake City in 1913. He attended the University of Utah, graduating in 1941 with a Bachelor's Degree in geology and civil engineering. In 1947 he met June Maxwell in New York City where she was working as a registered nurse 
 William Armistead Christian, a professor emeritus of religious studies at Yale University, died on Aug. 9 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 92. Dr. Christian, who wrote about religious philosophy, joined the Yale faculty in 1951 as an associate professor. He was promoted to full p
 Akil Al-Jundi, a Harlem street tough who became a leading legal advocate for young criminals facing prison sentences, but only after he had served 15 years for murder and survived the bloody Attica prison takeover, died on Aug. 13 at New York Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 56, and t
 Bruce Harley Yenawine, who had recently left the director's office of a Connecticut museum to take a similar position in Massachusetts, died Monday at the University of Kentucky Medical Center of injuries received in a car accident in Kentucky. A resident of Ivoryton, Conn., he was 47.     
 Burnum Burnum, a battler for the cause of the Aborigines, died on Sunday in his home in the Sydney suburb of Woronora. He was 61. He died of a heart attack aggravated by a history of diabetes, his family said. The tall, imposing Mr. Burnum Burnum brought a gift for showmansh
 KAUFTHAL-Leo. The Olive Society extends it heartfelt sympathy to our dear friends, Ilan Kaufthal and his wife, Linda, and to Uri Kaufthal and his wife, Judy, upon the passing of their father. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Edith, and to his grandchildren. His righteousness is reflecte
 LUDLAM-George P Beloved husband of Kathleen Kieffer Ludlam. Died on August 1, 1997 at his home in East Dorset, Vermont. Survivors include his wife, his dearly loved son and daughter, Stephen Ludlam & Anne Ludlam Wichelns, four grandchildren and two step grandsons. He was predeceased by his 
 O'DONNELL-James F. Director of Corporate Communications for The Hearst Corporation, died on Saturday, Aug. 16, at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, MA., after a long fight with cancer. The communication plans he developed helped to unify Hearst's 100plus businesses. We appreciate Jim'
 SCHLESINGER - John - Christophe. Born April 15, 1974. Beloved son of Sheila and Richard, loving brother of Lauren and Katie, died Monday, August 18, 1997. Attended New Canaan Country School, Saint Paul's School, and Stamford University where he received his B.A. degree in 1996, and M.A. deg
 Von ELM-H. Walter. Age 82, died peacefully on Sunday August 17 at Calvary Hospital in The Bronx, New York after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, New York on March 19, 1915, he was the son of the late Margaret and Henry Von Elm, who was former President and Chairman of the Board of The Manu
 WEISSBERG-Madalyn. On August 16, 1997. Our sincerest condolences to Michael on the loss of his mother. Your friends in the Class of 2000       
 Fabio Freyre, a member of the invasion force of Cuban exiles backed by the United States who tried to topple Fidel Castro at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, died on Sunday in his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 years old and had cancer, his family said. The invasion collapsed within 72 
 Leo Jaffe, well known for decades as an influential deal maker in Hollywood and as a philanthropist, died yesterday morning at his home in New York City after a long illness. He was 88 years old. In a world where executives often move from one studio to another, Mr. Jaffe was notewo
 Merril Eisenbud, an environmental scientist who was the first health and safety chief of the United States Atomic Energy Commission and the first head of New York City's Environmental Protection Agency, died on Friday at the Carolina Meadows retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 
 GOLDBERG-Murray Lyon. Born October 21, 1912 to his beloved parents, Harry and Rose (Chertok). Adoring husband of 61 years to his beautiful Ruth, devoted sonin-law to Abe and Jennie Margolis. Loving and generous father to Jerry (Donald) and Stan (Leah). Proud grandpa to Noah. Caring brother 
 HALBERSTAM-Arthur. Beloved husband of Rachel Inge Halberstam, devoted father of Miriam, Michael and Daniel, dear brother of Goldie London, loyal friend of Louis Brettschneider, died August 18, 1997, at his home at Erlenhof, Germany. Arthur was the youngest son of the late Sanzer Rebbe Menac
 JAFFE-Leo, on August 20, 1997. He is survived by his loving wife Anita; his son Howard; his daughter Marcia, her husband Gene and children Todd and Dana; his son Stanley, his wife Melinda and children Robert, Betsy, Alexander & Katie; his son Ira, his wife Sonda, and children Wendy, Eric an
 KATZ-Jerome of Ft. Lee, NJ. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Devoted father of Joanne Katz Myers and Ellen Katz Willner and fatherin-law of Jim Myers and Michael Willner. Dear brother of Phyllis Byrum. Loving grandfather of Danielle, Matthew, Carly. Services ''Wien & Wien'', Hackensack, NJ Frid
 KAUFTHAL-Leo. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Leo Kaufthal; cherished father, beloved husband, Holocaust survivor, role model for the community. His dedication to those who needed help was as passionate as his devotion to his family. He was a righteous person
 SCHAFFER-Abraham I., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the loss of Abraham I. Schaffer, M.D., Honorary Associate Physician. A valued member of our Department of Medicine since 1967, Dr. Schaffer was a respected cardiologist and a dev
 SMITH-Robert Miller, 90, of Dorset, Vermont, died Monday, August 18th, 1997. The memorial service will be August 25 at 1 PM, at the United Church in Dorset, Vermont. Bob is survived by his wife Rosann Lipe Foote, sons, Andrew B. Smith, Ray P. Foote, Jr., Jonathan L. Foote, Geoffrey G. Foote
 William Humphrey, whose highly acclaimed first novel, ''Home From the Hill,'' and other books dealt with the play of small-town family life in northeast Texas, died yesterday at his home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Nick Lyons, a friend and one of his publis
 Norris Edwin Bradbury, the physicist who reluctantly followed J. Robert Oppenheimer as the director of the nation's first atomic weapons research center and then served longer in the job than anyone else, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88. Dr. Bradbury took
 ABELOFF-Abram J., M.D. The Officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) record with sorrow the loss of its esteemed Honorary Board Member. A modest, gentle, caring person he gave unstintingly of his energy and professional knowledge in bri
 ALPER-Daniel Marcus. August 20, 1997. Cherished son of Marilyn and the late Howard. Beloved brother of Joshua and the late Michael. Loved nephew of Linda and Victor Bakian and Charles and Connie Gagliardi. Dear cousin of Amanda, Marielle, Ann, Nicola and Jennifer. Adored godson of Marcia Th
 ALPER-Michael David. August 20, 1997. Cherished son of Marilyn and the late Howard. Beloved brother of Joshua and the late Daniel. Adored nephew of Linda and Victor Bakian. Loved godson of Connie and Charles Gagliardi. Dear cousin of Amanda, Marielle, Ann, Jennifer and Nicola. A bright star
 COOPERBERG-Irving. The Empire State Pride Agenda extends its sympathies to the family and friends of Irving Cooperberg-a man of great charity. His early leadership of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center helped build a community that is ever so stronger today because of him. The Bo
 EISENBUD-Merril, MD. The trustees, faculty and staff of New York University Medical Center deeply mourn the loss of Merril Eisenbud, age 82, Professor Emeritus of Environmental Medicine at NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Eisenbud received international attention for his work on atomic radiation
 ELSON-Adolph, 92, died August 21, 1997 in Neptune, New Jersey. Predeceased by his wife Ruth (Klinger) Sacks, Elson. Beloved father of Sheldon Sacks and Gloria Valenza. Grandfather of six. Relatives and friends are invited to attend the funeral services Sunday at 1:15 pm at Bloomfield Cooper
 FEIDELSON-Michael. Age 58, died Thursday, August 21, after a short illness. Beloved husband of Babs Lansberger Feidelson. Devoted father of Linn and Robert Feidelson, Stefanie and Paul Feidelson. Cherished grandfather of Max, Laura and Lucy Feidelson. Loving brother of Suzanne and Don Mendo
 HOCHBERG-Shirley. The leadership and staff of Israel Bonds send heartfelt condolences to Irwin Hochberg, Israel Bonds' Greater New York Chairman, and his family on the death of his beloved sister-in-law, Shirley Hochberg, wife of Len Hochberg. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zio
 JAFFE-Leo, on August 20, 1997. He is survived by his loving wife Anita; his son Howard; his daughter Marcia, her husband Gene and children Todd and Dana; his son Stanley, his wife Melinda and children Robert, Betsy, Alexander & Katie; his son Ira, his wife Sonda, and children Wendy, Eric an
 KUHBACH-A. Gerdes and his wife Muriel of Chatham, New Jersey, on August 19-20, 1997. Parents of Ellen K. Lucas, Robert G., and Peter D. Kuhbach. They are also survived by 5 grandchildren: Scott, Jonathan, Allison, Courtney and Emily. A memorial service will be held at the Stanley Congregati
 NEWMARK - Michael, beloved husband of Gladys, cherished father of Glenn, Anne and Deborah Newmark Turchinsky; grandfather of Alexandra and Michael; step father of Mark Frost. Funeral Sunday August 24, at 12 Noon at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills. NEWMARK-Mi
 RUFFINE-Richard Sergei, on August 20, 1997. Beloved husband of Sheila; father of Nicole, Anthony and Louisa; father-in-law to Mary; and grandfather of Henry. Burial Service at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, N.Y., at 2 P.M. Memorial Service on Sunday, August 24, Washington Hebrew Congregation.
 WIGHT-Russell Bacon, 90, of 125B Heritage Village, Southbury, CT, and Venice, FL, on August 18, 1997. Mr. Wight was born August 14, 1907, in Washington, D.C. Son of Frederick L. & Charlotte L. Bacon Wight. Mr. Wight graduated from the Mount Hermon School in 1931, from Yale College in 1935, 
 ZWIRN-Irving. Age 87, on July 29, 1997, Moravia, N.Y. Esteemed attorney for over 60 years. Syracuse University and St. John's Law School, World War II veteran, former Police Justice. Beloved husband of Pola Lewin for 57 years, cherished father of David, Richard and Diana. Adored grandfather
 LEVIEN-Arthur. 9/27/17-8/22/87. Beloved husband of Jane, cherished father and grandfather. Lovingly remembered on the 10th anniversary of his passing. The Levien Family       
 PLANTAGENET-Richard III, King of England, misrepresented and maligned by history, maliciously killed by treason on 22 August 1485. He appealed to the ideals of loyalty, lordship and honor. He knew how to command, how to reward, but most of all, he knew how to inspire. Lovingly remembered by
 Ray Hyman, a musician and inventor, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. He was 86. Mr. Hyman was an accomplished saxophonist who performed with the Philadelphia Orchestra for nearly 60 years. He was one of the few musicians to have worked under the orchestra's three long
 Yuri Nikulin, a master comic and one of Russia's most loved actors, died today at a Moscow hospital. He was 75. Mr. Nikulin had been in critical condition since undergoing emergency heart surgery on Aug. 5 and died of heart failure. For more than 40 years, Mr. Nikulin entral
 Abe Newborn, a longtime theatrical agent, died on Aug. 12 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Sam. After founding the Baum-Newborn  agency with Marty Baum in 1948, Mr. Newborn represent
 Irving Cooperberg, a founder and the first president of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center in Greenwich Village, a hub of gay life in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was AIDS-related cancer, said Richard D. Burns, the center
 Misael Pastrana Borrero, the last of Colombia's National Front Presidents, who governed as part of a coalition between the two main political parties, died at a clinic here today. He was 74. A Conservative whose sons took up his political mantle, Mr. Pastrana was President from 1970
 CAMERON-James Allan. Of Southampton, N.Y., on August 19, 1997. Survived by his loving wife Audrey and by his brother William A. Cameron of East Hampton, N.Y. Visiting hours at the J.M. O'Connell Funeral Home, 30 Little Plains Road, Southampton, N.Y., Thursday from 7-9 PM, and Friday from 2-
 COOPERBERG-Irving. GMHC's staff, volunteers and Board of Directors mourn the passing of Irving Cooperberg, Founding President of New York's Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center. The inspiration of his leadership in the good fight is a legacy for all lesbians and gay men. David Hollande
 DOMMERICH-Alexander L., Jr., of Greenwich, CT., aged 86, died at the King Street Nursing Home on Wed., Aug. 20, 1997. Husband of Margaret McCall Dommerich and father of Wilhelmina D. Powell and Alexander L. Dommerich, III. Grandfather of Charlotte G.W. Stutts, Robert Dillon, II, Maria R. M.
 DONALDSON-Robert C., of North Babylon, Aug. 22, 1997. Retired Hilton Hotel Executive, served during W.W. II in 4th Armored Division, participated in the Battle of the Bulge. He attended Fordham University. Beloved husband of Loretta. Devoted father of Jacqueline. Dear brother of George of C
 FOX-Edward, in his 90th year. Of Plantation, FL; formerly of Fort Lee, N.J., and Manhattan Beach, Bklyn; orginally of Osweicim, Austria. Devoted husband of 62 years of Lillian (Enoch). Beloved father of Penny Fox Schwartz and Allan Fox. Dear father-in-law of Ronna Taylor Fox. Cherished gran
 HUMPHREY - William. The trustees, faculty, alumni/ae, and students of Bard College mourn the passing of William Humphrey, whose love of literature and generosity toward students as a member of Bard's faculty left a memorable legacy. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Bots
 KEEN-Joseph, 89, of N. Miami Beach. August 21, 1997, after long illness. Husband of the late Eva. Father of Fred (Whitney) of Tenafly, NJ, Bob (Tamara Browning) of Teaneck, NJ. Grandfather of Michael (Carolyn) Keen, Erica (Greg) Keen Thomas, Leila, Juliana, Vanessa and Amanda Keen. Great-gr
 FINKEL-Joe. August 12, 1947August 23, 1996. Remembering this first anniversary of our wonderful, capable, exuberant son-in-law who shared his love of the Alaskan wilderness with us. Harriet and Dick       
 Richard Friedman, a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and a pioneer in the study of the mind's effects on physical health, died Tuesday of heart failure after giving a talk at the American Psychological Association meeting in Chicago. He was 49.     
 Richard Friedman, a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and a pioneer in the study of the mind's effects on physical health, died Tuesday of heart failure after giving a talk at the American Psychological Association meeting in Chicago. He was 49.     
 William Cade, a decorated French Resistance fighter and later a travel executive, died on Aug. 8 in a hospital in Naas, Ireland. He was 75 and lived in Kildare, County Kildare. The cause was a stroke, his family said. He joined the Resistance in Nice, conducting tactical mis
 A. Gerdes Kuhbach, a corporate lawyer who had a long career with the New Haven Railroad followed by three years as executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Chatham, N.J. His famil
 Charles A. Horsky, a lawyer and former Government official who helped redevelop the nation's capital during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 87 and lived in Silver Spring. The cause was kidney failure, said h
 Frank A. Bartimo, a retired senior legal official at the Pentagon who helped shape its health care policies, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Spencer, Mass. He was 82 and had lived in Falls Church, Va., until three years ago. A native of Leominster, Mass., he graduated from Clark Univ
 The Rev. J. Carter Swaim, a former theology professor in Pittsburgh, an executive with the National Council of Churches in New York and former pastor of the Church of the Covenant on Manhattan's East Side, died on Aug. 7 at the Presbyterian Medical Center in Washington, Pa., where he lived.
 BULLOCK-Augustus George Bullock, II., 88, of 26 Stoney Lea Rd, Dedham, MA, husband of Gertrude E. (Carter) Bullock, died August 22, 1997. He also leaves one son A.G. Bullock, Jr., Princeton, MA, one daughter Prim P. Bullock, Weston, MA; two sisters Elizabeth Barton and Mary Johnson, both of
 COOPERBERG - Irving. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our Founding President and dear friend and colleague, Irving Cooperberg. Irving had the foresight, determination, humor, and tenacity required to guide the Lesbian and 
 EPSTEIN-Kenneth J. After a courageous fight. Beloved husband of Doreen; devoted father of Karen, Ivy and Amy; loving grandfather of Emily and Tracy. His humor and sweetness will be sorely missed. Service Sunday, 12 noon at ''Gramercy Park Chapel'' 2nd Avenue between 9th and 10th Streets. Co
 FEIDELSON-Michael. Age 58, died Thursday, August 21, after a short illness. Beloved husband of Babs Lansberger Feidelson. Devoted father of Linn and Robert Feidelson, Stefanie and Paul Feidelson. Cherished grandfather of Max, Laura and Lucy Feidelson. Loving brother of Suzanne and Don Mendo
 FINCH-Henry L. Jr. (Roy) 79, died peacefully the evening of Friday, August 22, 1997 at his home. Attended by his wife Maggie and three of his five children, Julie, Marta, Dabney, Annie and Roy. He is also survived by his brother Stephen and five grandchildren Christine, Flavin, Rebecca, Rai
 FOX-Edward, in his 90th year. Of Plantation, FL; formerly of Fort Lee, N.J., and Manhattan Beach, Bklyn; orginally of Osweicim, Austria. Devoted husband of 62 years of Lillian (Enoch). Beloved father of Penny Fox Schwartz and Allan Fox. Dear father-in-law of Ronna Taylor Fox. Cherished gran
 LANKA-Robert C., 86, a retired partner with Deloitte & Touche died on August 14, 1997. Donations may be made in his memory to The Diabetic Youth Foundation 1954, Mount Diablo Boulevard, Walnut Creek, California, 94596.       
 LEWIS-Howard A., age 85, died Aug. 17. He was the son of Ignace and Helen Lewis. He owned and operated Lewis and Son Master Watchmakers, Inc., which was established in 1886. His wife, Margit Lang Lewis, died in 1986. He is survived by a son, Tom, a daughter, Nancy, and two grandchildren.   
 RYLE-Joseph D. A prominent public relations executive died July 25th at his home in New York. He was 86. A Memorial Mass will be held in Lacy Chapel, St. Patrick Cathedral, on September 26, at 10:30 A.M. Memorials may be made to East Side House, 337 Alexander Avenue, Bronx, New York. Mr. Ry
 STEIN-Fred M., Jr. Age 92. Died on August 22, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Hellman Stein; father of Barbara S. Scott and Virginia S. Greene; grandfather of Andrew, Lynn and Susan Greene, and Timothy, David and Gordon Scott and three great-grandchildren. His warmth, humor and h
 ZWIRN-Irving. Age 87, on July 29, 1997, Moravia, N.Y. Esteemed attorney for over 60 years. Syracuse University and St. John's Law School, World War II veteran, former Police Justice. Beloved husband of Pola Lewin for 57 years, cherished father of David, Richard and Diana. Adored grandfather
 SCHIFF-Harold. 1924-1997. Died 2/21/97. Born in NY. Missed by his family every day since he was murdered at his furniture store of 26 years. We never got to say goodbye. We miss you terribly. Survived by wife Elaine, sons Michael, Larry and Robert, daughter Karen, and grandchildren Megan, K
 Robert Smith, a prolific author of books about sports, died on Aug. 4 while on a fishing trip in Coburn Gore, Me. He was 91 and lived in Lenox, Mass., and Irvington, N.Y. Mr. Smith's many books, among them six novels, included ''Baseball,'' ''Heroes of Baseball,'' ''Baseball in Amer
 Rolf Knie, a master elephant trainer who led Switzerland's foremost circus family for 50 years, died on Monday. He was 75. The cause of death was heart failure, said a Knie Circus spokesman, Hans Rathgeb. Mr. Knie, who was billed as the man who spoke to elephants, headed the
 Albert Haas, a specialist in heart-and-lung disease and the physical rehabilitation of the patient, died on Aug. 12 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. A resident of Greenwich Village, he was 85. Dr. Haas was a retired professor of medicine at New York Universi
 John Paul Itta, an advertising executive who was as well known within the industry for his fanciful Christmas cards as for his multiple awards for creative campaigns, died Aug. 16 at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. The cause was acute myelogenous leukemia, according to Anthony F. M
 Mac Gache, a former publisher who popularized the tan and green volumes of Funk & Wagnalls encyclopedia sets with door-to-door canvassing and supermarket sales, puzzle contests and dishware prizes, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 93 and had been retired from publishi
 BULLOCK-Augustus George, II. Age 88, died Friday, August 22, 1997. Mr. Bullock, born in Worcester, MA, was a longtime resident of Grafton, more recently of Dedham, where he lived for the past 15 years with his wife Gertrude (Carter) Bullock. Mr. Bullock leaves in addition to his wife, two s
 CONNORS-Francis X. Died on August 22, 1997, at Hilton Head Island, SC. He is survived by his devoted wife Mary Twigg Connors, his loving daughter Janet C. Parry of Summit, NJ, and two grandchildren Thomas and Clare Parry. His first wife Janet Murphy Connors died in 1960. He practiced law in
 FEIDELSON-Michael. The Executive Committee and staff of the Metropolitan Golf Association mourn the passing of our colleague and friend. Michael's wisdom and leadership benefited his club, Quaker Ridge, our Association and the game of golf. We extend our deepest sympathty to his family. Met
 FINCH-Henry L. Jr. (Roy) 79, died peacefully the evening of Friday, August 22, 1997 at his home. Attended by his wife Maggie and three of his five children, Julie, Marta, Dabney, Annie and Roy. He is also survived by his brother Stephen and five grandchildren Christine, Flavin, Rebecca, Rai
 HEATHERTON - Ray. National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey mourns the passing of Ray Heatherton. His participation and support helped the NKF NY/ NJ, as well as many other charitable organizations. We remember him with respect, gratitude and fondness. Ira Greifer, MD, President Sh
 HENDRICKSON-Milton A. Of Lawrence, LI, on Aug 23, 1997. President of Hendrickson Bros Inc. Beloved and devoted husband of Edith. Loving brother of Ella, Eudora and Carolyn. Also survived by his many cherished nieces and nephews. Family will receive friends today, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, at The Moor
 Ron Hoff, a former advertising executive, died on Aug. 18 at Brush Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Hoff, a resident of Chicago and Lake Geneva, Wis., was 71. He died after a medical procedure for heart disease, said Linda Hoff-Hagensick, a daughter. Mr. Hoff was an exe
 Buddy Hassett, a first baseman for the Brooklyn Dodgers, Boston Braves and Yankees who was known as a fine hitter and fielder, but was best remembered for his propensity to croon at the drop of a baseball hat, died on Saturday. He was 85. Hassett, who had bone cancer, died at Pascac
 Edgar F. Shannon Jr., a former president of the University of Virginia who inspired both cheers and scorn for his outspoken opposition to the war in Vietnam in the early 1970's, died on Sunday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 79. The cause was cancer, Mr. Shannon's wife, E
 Johnny Byrne, a sound engineer and producer who was a fixture on New York's Irish music scene, died on Saturday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39. He died after falling from the fire escape of his East Village apartment on Aug. 3, said his sister, Bronwyn O'Donnell of Dub
 O. W. Riegel, a journalist who turned an interest in propaganda acquired in Europe between the world wars into a career as a scholar and expert on the subject, died on Saturday at Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 94 and lived in Glasgow, Va. He had suffered a stro
 Paul G. Gebhard, a lawyer who represented physicians organizations and is credited with having introduced the legal term ''informed consent'' in medical malpractice cases, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Maria Svolos
 BELIN-Daisy. The American Friends of The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Board of Directors and staff, wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend Daniel Belin, on the passing of his wife, Daisy. We extend our deepest condolences to the Belin and Remer families. Zubin Mehta and 
 BOIES-David. 81. At home in Hemet, CA, on August 23. Survived by his wife, Sade, his devoted children, David, Stephen, Barbara, Richard and Catherine, 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren, all of whom will miss him sorely, as will we. Judith and Robert       
 COOPERBERG - Irving. The Board, staff and members of SAGE extend their deepest condolences to the family and friends of Irving Cooperberg. Our community will be forever indebted to Irving for his leadership, vision and philanthropy. The Board, Staff and Members of SAGE       
 FELDMAN-Lawrence, of Tinton Falls, NJ on August 24. Husband of Marilyn (Kaplan); father of Judy and Steve, and proud grandfather of Sharon, Adam and Jill; brother of Joan Margulies and Phyllis Feldman. He was the past President of Congregation B'Nai Israel, Rumson, NJ. Services will be held
 FREUND-Richard B. Age 82. Died August 13, 1997 in Newtown, Pennsylvania. United States career foreign service officer who negotiated the 1955 Austrian State Treaty and worked on the creation of NATO and the Marshall Plan. He was Chief of Mission in Kenya 1960 to 1963 and set up the Moscow-W
 GOUSTIN-Herman. Died August 21, of bone cancer after living in Manhattan for the last half of his 74 years. He gave so much to many with his art, his humor, his consideration and his kindness. Herman, we love and miss you greatly.       
 GREENE-James Coffin. 82. Died Friday, Aug. 22, 1997 in Pasadena, CA. Survived by his wife Elizabeth Rollins, two daughters, one son, three grandsons and two sisters.       
 HOKANSON-Hans, 71. Born 1925, Malmo, Sweden. Died unexpectedly of massive heart attack August 19 at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. Longtime resident of East Hampton, L.I., he was a painter, sculptor, woodworker, furniture designer, with work represented in collections of the Metropolitan Muse
 ROSENZWEIG-William. The Metropolitan Parking Association notes with profound sorrow the death of William Rosenzweig, esteemed member of our Board of Directors for many years. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Anne, his daughter Linda, his sonin-law Sandy, his sisters, as well as to his 
 STEIN-Fred M., Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York deeply mourn the loss of Fred M. Stein, Jr., friend and supporter of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. Husband of the late Margaret Hellman Stein, who was a Director of the Visiting Nurse Ser
 Abram Joseph Abeloff, a surgeon with Lenox Hill Hospital for more than 50 years and a former associate clinical professor of surgery at New York University, died on Aug. 15 at the hospital. He was 97 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Dr. Abeloff was an honorary board me
 Joseph Austin Phillips, a chief assistant prosecutor for Maurice H. Nadjari, the New York State special prosecutor who led an anti-corruption inquiry in the 1970's, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause of death was heart disease, according to Edward J. Kir
 COHEN-Harry. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services express their deep sorrow at the loss of Harry Cohen, beloved father of Steven D. Cohen, the esteemed associate executive director for Planning for the agency. We extend our sincere
 HASSETT-John A. The President, the Board of Trustees, the Manhattan College Alumni Society and the entire Manhattan College community mourn the death of John (Buddy) Hassett, class of 1933. Athletically inclined, Buddy played both basketball & baseball for Manhattan College. He was presiden
 HOKANSON-Hans, 71. Born 1925, Malmo, Sweden. Died unexpectedly of massive heart attack August 19 at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. Longtime resident of East Hampton, L.I., he was a painter, sculptor, woodworker, furniture designer, with work represented in collections of the Metropolitan Muse
 KINBERG-Benjamin. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Benjamin Kinberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 KLAUSNER-Max. Beloved husband of Rebecca, loving uncle of Judah, Marc, Paul and April, Miriam, Leah and Robert. Adored great uncle, devoted brother-inlaw of Mr. and Mrs. Israel Jacober of London. Passed away this Tuesday, August 26, in N.Y.C. A Rodeph Shalom, he demonstrated great kindness,
 MILLER-Jesse. Temple Shaaray Tefila is grieved to record the passing of its dedicated member. We express our profound sympathy to all his family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President       
 ROBERTS-Seymour. Of Atlantic Beach and Pembroke Pines, FL. 77 years old. On August 26, 1997. Adored husband of forty-five years of Sherry Stauber Roberts. Cherished father of Roy, Michael and Jolie (Mansky) and beloved grandfather of eight. Retired Vice President of Rado Watch. His love of 
 SADOW-Irving. Age 89, of Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, died August 21st in Bristol, PA., after a long decline in health and spirits following the death of his beloved companion of 25 years, Beatrice Kalver. He was predeceased by his sisters, Anita Sonberg and Shirley Janos. During World War II,
 UNGER-Peter J. On August 24, 1997. Resident of Southampton and New York. Beloved husband of Monica. He is also survived by a son George and two grandchildren of Wellington, Fla. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Southampton Fresh Air Home. Memorial service t
 Von ELM-H. Walter. Age 82, died peacefully on Sunday August 17 at Calvary Hospital in The Bronx, New York after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, New York on March 19, 1915, he was the son of the late Margaret and Henry Von Elm, who was former President and Chairman of the Board of The Manu
 YUKER-Dr. Harold E. In sympathy: Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Harold E. Yuker, Distinguished Professor of Psychology, Director of the Center for the Study of Attitudes Towards Persons With Disabilities and former Hofstra Provost and Dean of Faculties. Dr. Yu
 William C. Moog Jr., the inventor of a valve that revolutionized aircraft and missile flight control systems, died on Friday at his house in Stuart, Fla. He was 82. His health had been declining since last year, when he suffered a stroke, his family said. An inventor and entrepreneu
 Brandon Tartikoff, one of the most successful showmen in the history of network television, who brought to NBC such hit series as ''Hill Street Blues,'' ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Miami Vice'' and ''Cheers,'' died yesterday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles, he
 David Ross, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a colorful majority leader of the New York City Council in the 1960's, died on Monday at Montefiore Hospital in New York City. He was 76. The cause was leukemia, according to a statement released by the court.    
 ALONSO-Arnaldo, 53, of New York City, August 26, 1997. Born in Falla, Ciego de Avila, Cuba. Survived by his wife, Gloria, daughter Mayra, son Arnaldo, 2 granddaughters, 6 brothers and 1 sister. Friends may call Horne-Danneker Funeral Home, 336 West 23 Street, Thursday 2-9 PM. Services 10AM 
 BARNETT-Roland. Of Monterey, MA., survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Lillie Covenko and his son, Lion Gary Barnett.       
 FRIEDMAN-Elliot, 72, Municipal Bond Pioneer. Elliot Friedman of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of South Orange, N.J. died on August 26, 1997. He fought a twelve year battle with lymphoma. He was the first Chairman of the Board of J.B. Hanauer & Company, one of the oldest municipal bond firms
 HOKANSON-Hans, 71. Born 1925, Malmo, Sweden. Died unexpectedly of massive heart attack on August 19 at Southampton (Long Island) Hospital. Longtime resident of East Hampton, Long Island, he was a painter, sculptor, woodworker, furniture designer, with work represented in collections of the 
 KANTOR-Sidney, on August 26, 1997. CEO of Sheridan Creations Inc., Simarka Productions Inc. and Silver Bullet Messenger Service. Beloved husband of Mary Yung. Loving father of Iris, Robert, Beth, Debbie and Howard. Adoring grandfather of Trpti, Bobby, Sydney, Nora, Ross, Perry and Charlotte
 KAPLAN-Julius W. Congregation B'nai Israel of Freeport expresses deep sorrow at the passing of our esteemed and devoted past president. We will miss his presence at our religious services, his beautiful voice and gentle nature and his total involvement in all our congregational endeavors.  
 KINBERG-Benjamin on August 25, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Lillian, devoted father of Frances and Judson, cherished grandfather and great-grandfather. Services Thursday, August 28, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Contributions in his memory may be made to a
 KNIGHT-George William. Born March 9, 1913, Died August 26, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Adelaide, son George William Jr., grandchildren Jim, Glen, Sara, and Kathryn Knight, brother Ridgeway. He graduated from Sorbonne University and earned an MBA from Harvard. He is the y
 NEWMAN-Bruce E. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers mourn the loss of Bruce E. Newman, valued friend, benefactor, and long time supporter. We are grateful for his many contributions to our success over the years. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Jean, hi
 ROSS-Hon. David. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, mark with sorrow the passing of their valued friend and former colleague. His spirit and scholarship will serve as his permanent legacy to this court. Francis T. Murphy, Presiding Justic
 SCHWARCZ-Dean Ernest. Queens College, its President, Trustees and Alumni celebrate the life and mourn the death of one of the great figures in its sixty year history, our beloved Dean Emeritus Ernest Schwarcz. He died tragically on August 26, 1997 at the age of 76. Born in Hungary, a surviv
 UNGER-Peter J., Esq. The National Institute of Social Sciences notes with sadness the death on August 24, 1997 of its longtime Vice President and Counsel. We extend our deep sympathies to his beloved wife, Monica & to his family.       
 Byron Gordon MacNabb, who directed field operations for the rocket system that launched the United States' space program and sent four astronauts into orbit, died on Monday. He was 87 and lived in Cheyenne, Wyo. Mr. MacNabb helped shepherd the program for the Atlas rocket from its e
 Clodomiro Almeyda Medina, an important leftist figure in Chile, died on Monday at his home in Santiago, Chile, after a long battle with colon cancer, his family said. He was 74. Mr. Almeyda held various Government positions, including Foreign Minister, Defense Minister and Vice Pres
 BOTTONE-Madeline. Wife of the late Carl. Devoted mother of Anthony C. Bottone M.D. and his wife Betty. Dear grandmother of Paul and his wife, MaryRita. Loving sister of Mary Alvino. Reposing at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 149-20 Northern Blvd., Flushing, NY. Mass of Christian Burial, Sa
 BROUGH-Richard A. On August 26, 1997, after a courageous battle with cancer. Husband of Joan. He is survived by his daughters from a previous marriage: Lorraine Maddaloni, Catherine Humphries, Leslie Hernandez and Jennifer Vitelli, and his grandchildren: Richard, Shaun and Leah Maddaloni, W
 CARRANO-Andrea, 71, the worldrenowned shoe designer, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. Andrea Carrano is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, their daughters, Valentina and Giada, their son, Andrea, and 3 daughters by his first marriage, Gianna, Maria Grazia and Man
 GORMAN-Paul F. Suddenly on August 26, 1997 of Raleigh, North Carolina and Albany, NY. Loving father of Tamara Gorman. Dear brother of Sandra Hoppe, Leslie Boudreau and Pamela Gorman. Dearest friend of Edith Waite. Friends may call at the Roslyn Hts Funeral Home, 75 Mineola Ave., Roslyn Hts,
 KASMIR-Cyril David, age 52, left this world on August 28, 1997. He was comfortable and surrounded by his family. He chose to leave us when we were all smiling, laughing and basking in the joy that he had brought to all of us. Cyril's strong will and undying spirit will continue to live on i
 LEVY-Harry. Formerly of Woodmere, New York. Loving husband of the late Estelle (Mayer). Cherished father of Andrea and Dr. Sheldon Greenberg. Beloved Pop-Pop to Matthew and Joshua. Retired President of Louis Levy & Son. Graveside services at Knollwood Cemetery, Queens, New York at 11 AM tod
 PADRONE-George W., 67, of Rancho Mirage, Calif. On August 27. Formerly of Bellerose, Queens. He was the son of Vito and Catherine Jones Padrone and was for 20 years the companion of Robert E. Armstrong of NYC and Rancho Mirage. For thirty-one years Mr. Padrone was on the staff of the IBM Co
 RAPPAPORT-Charles. On Aug. 28, 1997. Beloved husband of Eva. Loving father of Jay (Judy), Perry (Barbara) and Edith (Joseph) Amorese. Cherished grandfather of Marc, Matthew, Michelle and David and the late Jake and great grandfather of Morgan, Abigail and Maxwell. President of Federation of
 SCHUBIN-Edith. The Board of Trustees of The American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art send condolences to fellow Trustee Milton J. Schubin and his family on the passing of his beloved mother, Edith Schubin.       
 SCHWARCZ-Ernest. The President and Faculty of Touro College in New York and Jerusalem, deeply mourn the tragic passing of Professor Schwarcz, a devoted and esteemed friend and guide. Dr. Schwarcz was a quintessential religious Jew, a profound student of the Talmud, a unique builder of Jewis
 SHINDLER-Albert B. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of Beth (Carlos) Marques and Ilene (Barry) German. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, Daniel and Noah. Fond brother of Robert (Elaine). Dear brother-in-law of Florence Goldstein. He taught us all the meaning of courage and the spirit
 VARNEY-Norman A. Born in Boston in 1922, he attended The Tilton School and Duke University, graduating in 1943. He served as a lieutenant on active duty in the US Navy until 1945, as a member of a minesweeper support group. He then joined the J. Walter Thompson Company, where he spent his p
 ZLOTNICK-Martin. Beloved husband and father and step-father, died August 26, at Georgetown University Medical Center (24th of Av). In his 47 year career he worked in research and development of aircraft, missile defense, energy technology and policy research. At various times he was afflita
 Because Bob Switzer fell off a loading dock as a teen-ager six decades ago, Allied troops were not accidentally bombed by their own planes during World War II, boxes of Tide detergent glow on supermarket shelves and black light is big at rock concerts. Mr. Switzer, who died on Aug. 
 Carl Jacobi, a short-story writer whose tales of the macabre and fantastic filled pulp magazines and books for six decades, died on Monday at a nursing home in suburban Minneapolis. He was 89. Mr. Jacobi sold his first story in 1928; four years later his work became a staple of Weir
 Jan Sejna, a former major general in the Czechoslovak Army who defected to the United States in 1968 and provided valuable intelligence on Communist military activities, died at his home in Bethesda, Md., on Saturday. He was 70. General Sejna fled to the United States after the libe
 John Cowdery Kendrew, a British molecular biochemist and 1962 Nobel laureate who decoded part of the mystery of life by revealing the detailed structure of a key protein, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 80. Dr. Kendrew started his quest at the end of World War II wh
 GOLDBERG-Herbert, husband of Muriel (nee Adler), August 27, 1997, of Tamarac, FL. Formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY. Father of Ivy Dershaw and Janet Hornbecker. Brother of Mildred Forman and Elliot Goldberg. Also survived by 4 grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to memorial servic
 HABER-Max. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Max Haber. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Faye, his children and grandchildren. Leon Fassler, President Monty Davis, Secretary       
 KANTOR-Shepard. The Trustees, Administration, Physicians and Staff of Gracie Square Hospital mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Kantor, beloved physician, coworker and friend for more than 20 years. Dr. Kantor was the founder and Medical Director of Gracie Square's Managed Care Unit,
 KASMIR-Cyril David, age 52, left this world on August 28, 1997. He was comfortable and surrounded by his family. He chose to leave us when we were all smiling, laughing and basking in the joy that he had brought to all of us. Cyril's strong will and undying spirit will continue to live on i
 SCHUBIN-Edith. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services extend sincere condolences to our colleague and fellow trustee, Milton J. Schubin, on the loss of his beloved mother, Edith Schubin. Seymour R. Askin, Jr President Joseph S. Kapla
 Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, known as Dodi, was killed in a car crash early this morning in Paris as he and Diana, the Princess of Wales, were fleeing paparazzi after dinner at the Ritz Hotel. Diana also died. Mr. al-Fayed, the eldest son of Mohammed al-Fayed, the owner of Harrods of Kni
 BACKER-Irving, age 91. Husband of Mollie. Father of Merle Lurie and Saul Backer. Grandfather, great-grandfather, brother. Services Tuesday 10:30 AM, Parkside Chapel, Queens Blvd and 66th Ave. BACKER-Irving. United Family of Judah mourns the loss of its past president Irving Backer. 
 EVES-Samuel R., 94, musician and educator, died August 12th. Survived by one sister, Julia Eves Small of Havertown, PA; numerous nieces and nephews, grand nieces and nephews, great grand nieces and nephews. Predeceased by Grace Gilmore Eves, his wife of 62 years. A memorial service will be 
 GLICKMAN-Meyer. Devoted husband of the late Fannie. Loving father of Lewis and Paul. Dear father-in-law of Alice and Constance. Devoted grandfather of Edward, Jonathan, Amy and Emily and great-grandfather of five. He was a dedicated dentist and committed to his patients' welfare. Practiced 
 HABER-Max. Of Palm Beach, FL, (formerly of Harrison, NY) on August 29, 1997. Beloved and adored husband of Faye, cherished and devoted father of Robert and Kenneth, loving father-in-law of Roslyn and Adrienne, adored and special grandfather of Jonathan, Jennifer, Brett, Jaime and Adam. We w
 JANES-Frank. 54, died suddenly in Houston, TX, August 28, 1997 of a heart attack. Survivors include his two daughters Caryn and Marianne and his two sisters Delores Janes-Wheeler and Beverly Leazer. A memorial service will be held at 3 PM on Wednesday, September 3, 1997, in the chapel of So
 KANTOR-Shepard J. M.D. Age 53. Died on August 28, 1997 at home of acute Myelogenous Leukemia. Psychiatrist, Psychoanalyst, Psychopharmacologist, Director of Managed Care at Gracie Square Hospital, Faculty Member at Columbia P & S, Research Psychiatrist at NYS Psychiatric Institute, and deep
 KASMIR-Cyril David, age 52, left this world on August 28, 1997. He was comfortable and surrounded by his family. He chose to leave us when we were all smiling, laughing and basking in the joy that he had brought to all of us. Cyril's strong will and undying spirit will continue to live on i
 KNIGHT-George William. Born March 9, 1913, Died August 26, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Adelaide, son George William Jr., grandchildren Jim, Glen, Sara, and Kathryn Knight, brother Ridgeway. He graduated from Sorbonne University and earned an MBA from Harvard. He is the y
 LELAND-Warren Hanan, Esq., an engineering-construction company executive, of Juno Beach, Florida and formerly of Duxbury & Boston, MA., died at his family's home in Wilton, CT. on July 28. Mr. Leland was born in New York City, NY on August 7, 1915. He was the son of the late Lewis and Rose 
 McCARTHY-John R. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved and esteemed member. He was a great source of counsel, guidance and support for many years. He was a great guy and will be truly missed. Our deepest condolences to his family. The Players       
 MORGAN-Rev. Edward C., of Fairfield, CT. Born in 1909, in Warner, NH. Attended Mt. Herman Prepartory School in Northfield, MA, and graduated from Harvard College in 1932. He studied at Harvard Divinity and graduated from The Episcopal Theological Seminary, Cambridge, MA, in 1935. He was ord
 OCUIN-Morton ''Streeky''. Passed away Tuesday, August 26, at his home. Morty, an inventor and artist, father, brother and lifelong friend to a special few, will live on in our hearts and minds forever.       
 PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. Mr. Peterkin is survived and missed by his wife Katharine Urban, two daughters Clare and Kate, three sons DeWitt III, George, and Patrick and his wife Jenn
 SCHWARTZ-Jerome M. Born August 22, 1913 in Brooklyn, NY. Died August 28, 1997 in Washington, D.C. A man who valued his role as husband and father not only for more than the success he achieved in business but also more than his splendid array of creative talent. This beautiful man-beloved f
 SHAPIRO-Alexander. The Yeshiva University family mourns the loss of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, beloved father of Irwin (and Ruth) Shapiro and Barbara (and Manfred) Joseph. Irwin Shapiro is a member of the YU Board of Trustees, Bernard Revel Graduate School Board of D
 STOLLMER - Walter Edward. Died April 29, in Scranton. He was the son of the late Gustave and Johanna Meaney Stollmer. He lived most of his life in Jamaica. Survived by two nephews, Dennis Kelly, Clarks Summit, and James Kelly, Concord, MA. Mass was held in Clarks Summit.       
 FUCHS-Ed. 1/11/46-8/29/96. He is remembered today and always for his love and devotion and caring of family and friends. Loved, missed, remembered. The Fuchs Family       
 HIGGINS-James V. 6/29/39-9/1/92. Sadly missed and lovingly remembered for his kindness and great wit. ''Though the night was made for loving and the day returns too soon, yet we'll go no more aroving by the light of the moon.'' Forever in my heart, dear Seamus. Nancy       
 Thomas D. Perry Jr., manager of the Boston Symphony Orchestra from 1954 to 1973 and its executive director from 1973 until his retirement in 1978, died last Sunday at his home in West Stockbridge, Mass. He was 83. Mr. Perry joined the staff of the Boston Symphony as an assistant man
