 Alton E. Peters, a Manhattan lawyer and philanthropist who was a passionate champion of opera, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 and also had homes in Falls Village, Conn., and on Mount Desert Island in Maine. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Elizabet
 Col. William R. Lawley Jr., who won the Medal of Honor in World War II for flying a crippled bomber with wounded crewmen safely back to England despite his multiple wounds, died on Sunday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala., his hometown,  He was 78. The cause was complications of pne
 John Fullerton Neilson, a vice president of the Microsoft Corporation responsible for an array of electronic commercial properties, died on Saturday at his home in Seattle. He was 37. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Neilson joined the company in 198
 BARNETT-James Allen, age 90. On May 26, 1999. Quietly at home in Portland, Oregon. He was retired from a long career as a marketing and advertising executive. He married Jane Dodge of Philadelphia with whom he had two daughters, Fayal B. Greene of New York and Lucy B. Campbell of London, En
 CASTLEMAN-Leonard, M.D. Dedicated physician for almost fifty years. At home on May 29th. His body was donated at his request to the Anatomical Gift Program at Downstate Medical Center. His survivors include his wife, Anita; his grandchildren, Ben and Rachel; his daughters, Janet and Nancy, 
 DALGIN-Paul, M.D. Medical Associates of Stamford mourns the death of of our colleague and friend, Dr. Paul Dalgin. He will be dearly missed by all those whose lives he touched. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Judy and his daughters Shara and Danielle. Leonard Vinnick, M.D. Robe
 FOX-Milton. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Monday, May 31, 1999. He will be missed. Services will be held June 1st at Bernheim, Apter, Goldsticker in Maplewood, N.J. at 1:30 PM. Burial at Beth Israel Ceme
 GREENE-Jerome L. The President, the Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and supporter, Jerome L. Greene. A devoted and active trustee since 1972, he had an extraordinary impact on the quality of health and life of thousa
 HABER-Michael. Passed away at the age of 87. He will be missed by his wife Ida, his loving children Rona Haber Mittleman and Robert Haber. He was adored by his loving grandchildren Zachary and Jaime Mittleman, Andrea and Lauren Haber. Michael was a kind and loving man who enjoyed life's sim
 HALPERIN-William. Died unexpectedly May 30, 1999 surrounded by his family, just 22 weeks after his beloved wife, best friend and partner of 61 years, Lynn Muller Halperin. All father could ever be to Jane and Robert Willis, Mary and Martin Marlowe and Barbara Selling. Incredible, loving Gra
 HESS-Milton. Loving husband of the late Bernice for fifty-one years. Cherished father of Risa, Janet and Charles. Dear father-inlaw to Patti. Brother of the late Howard. Beloved grandfather of Allison, Anya, Justin and Quintin. Devoted friend of Helaine. Proprietor for over forty years of M
 KAHN-Robert D. On May 25, 1999, died in Bangkok, Thailand, formerly of Hewlett Harbor, NY. The world lost a great man. He was a courageous, charismatic go-getter who never let obstacles stand in his way. His quick wit, creative brilliant mind and profound devotion will never be forgotten by
 LANDA-Lev N. On May 29, 1999. A prominent scholar & author, he developed a theory of algorithims that was internationally recognized. Born in the U.S.S.R., he emigrated to the U.S. in 1976. Beloved husband of Maria. Devoted father of Boris. Dear brother of Aron. Loving grandfather of Zachar
 LAX-Michael. Age 69, of NYC and Bridgehampton, NY, on May 25th, 1999. Beloved father of Jennifer and Rebecca. Cherished partner of Kirsten Childs. An exceptionally gifted and caring man. He will be greatly missed.       
 MAUTNER-Milton S. Age 85, on May 29, 1999. Loving and dearly loved husband for 30 years of Peggy (Margaret Park) Mautner. Widely read, musically engaged, he was a man of fine intellect, wit, talent, goodness and dignity. He was for many years a writer and editor and was a veteran of World W
 PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeline and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The Metropolit
 RECANATI-Raphael. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of our longtime friend, a man of great personal dignity, who is highly respected in the world of finance and Jewish communal affairs. With his wife, Dina, he was a Guardian of Yeshiva University. Through his creative vision 
 SHERL-Bernard. On May 30, 1999. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Mildred Bernstein. Dearest father of Jane Rosenblum (Michael) and Robert. Loving grandfather of Gregory and Rebecca. Brother of the late Ely Scherl. A graduate of City College and Brooklyn Law School, he worked for the 
 SHERRY-Christopher A. Survived by his wife Eileen Coughlin, a son Christopher A., Jr., a brother James A. III, and his mother Janet. Visiting on Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9PM at William H. Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Road, Rye, NY. Mass at Resurrection Church on Wednesday, 10AM.       
 DUNNINGTON-Walter G. Jr. A gathering of friends celebrating remembrances of his life. The Chapel at Saint Bartholomew's, Park Avenue at 50th Street, 4:30 P.M., Wednesday, June 2nd, 1999.       
 William E. Ringel, who ruled Andy Warhol's ''Blue Movie'' obscene, lectured civil rights protesters on the evils of anarchy and sent a parade of slumlords, thieves and vagrants to jail in 25 years as a judge in Criminal Court and other lower courts in New York, died on Thursday at his apart
 Charles F. McErlean, a former vice chairman of United Airlines and president of UAL Inc., its parent, died May 21 at his home in Oak Brook, Ill. He was 87. Mr. McErlean was serving on the legal staff of the National Labor Relations Board in 1945 when he was hired by William A. Patte
 ANCELL-Nathan S. Founder of Ethan Allen, Inc. Died peacefully on Memorial Day at his home after a lengthy illness. He was 90 years old. A visionary leader in the home-furnishings industry for over 65 years, he was also an avid collector of antiques and a lifelong humanitarian who donated hi
 BEDERSON-William. Of Lake Worth, Florida, passed away on Tuesday, June 1, 1999. Originally from New York, he was a longtime resident of The Fountains of Lake Worth and Boca Lago in Boca Raton, FL. He is survived by and will be fondly remembered by his dear companion Florence Dornfeld; steps
 BOORSCH-John Peter. Age 54, died at home in Princeton, NJ, May 28, 1999. He is survived by his wife Dorothea Dietrich, his father, brother and two sisters. Memorial Service at Princeton University Chapel, on Friday, June 11th, 2PM. Instead of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to 
 CARAVAGGI-Bruno. On May 30, 1999, Bruno, beloved husband, father and friend, died peacefully after a long illness. Bruno, former owner of New York's Quo Vadis Restaurant, is survived by his loving wife Anita, a son Robert, a daughter Claudette, grandchildren James and Alec, a sister Angelin
 CASTLEMAN-Leonard, M.D. The Alumni Society of the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn records with deep sorrow the passing of a colleague of longstanding and expresses sincere condolences to his wife Anita and the family.       
 COHEN-Harry. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends its condolences to our esteemed and devoted friend, Roy Cohen, on the passing of his beloved brother. We extend to Roy, Joan and the entire Cohen family our prayers that they will be comforted among the
 FOST-Herbert Handler. Of Westfield, N.J. Devoted husband of the late Lillian M. (Shapiro) Fost. Dearest friend of Lillian Block. Beloved father of Nancy Segal of Scituate, MA., and Ronnie Kanarek of Sudbury, MA. Cherished grandfather of Eric Segal and Michael Kanarek. Relatives and friends 
 FRANK-Charles W., MD., 100 years old. Pre-deceased in 1975 by his beloved wife of fifty years, Mabel Reinschreiber Frank, and in 1998 by Mae Frank. Father of Ruth Deutsch and Janet Fox (Alan). Grandfather of Kenneth and Nancy Deutsch, Martin and David Kalt. Great-grandfather, brother of Sof
 GREENE-Jerome. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and staff of 13/WNET, we wish to extend our most profound condolences to Dawn Greene and family. We share your loss at the passing of Jerome Greene. A member of 13/ WNET's Board of Trustees, he played a long and active role in guiding the st
 MAUTNER-Milton S. Age 85, on May 29, 1999. Loving and dearly loved husband for 30 years of Peggy (Margaret Park) Mautner. Widely read, musically engaged, he was a man of fine intellect, wit, talent, goodness and dignity. He was for many years a writer and editor and was a veteran of World W
 MEDINA-Standish Forde Jr. On May 29, 1999. Dearly beloved husband of Kate and father of Nathaniel, loving son of Stan and Hope, and brother of Meredith and Jeremy; devoted partner of Debevoise & Plimpton. Service to be held at St. James's Espiscopal Church, 865 Madison Ave. (71st), Wednesda
 PADDON-Richard, age 78 of Berkeley Heights, NJ. Died at his home, May 29th, 1999 after a brief illness. Born to Harry L. and Mina (Gilchrist) Paddon of Northwest River, Labrador, Canada. Survived by his wife, Mary Werthmann Paddon, children, Richard L., Elizabeth G., James R., Katherine F.,
 PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeleine and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers donations may 
 PLATOVSKY-Rabbi Naftali. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member, Ronald Platovsky. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 PRICE-George. The employees of Price Paper Company express sincere condolences to Jack Price and family on the loss of his beloved father. May he be at peace.       
 RECANATI-Raphael. We deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati whose generosity, vision and support were felt by so many in Israel and the United States. We at The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) are indebted to him and the Recanati family for their role and support of t
 SCHWARTZ-Abe Sander, Judge. Died Tuesday, June 1, 1999 at the St. Peter's Medical Center, New Brunswick, NJ. Judge Schwartz was born in New York City and was ninety-two years of age. He graduated from Perth Amboy High School and Rutgers University Law School. He practiced law in South River
 URIBE-Luis Enrique. June 1, 1999. Husband of Irma, father of Adelaida Uribe Bennett and her husband Edward G.R. Bennett and Maria del Pilar Uribe, grandfather of Edward, Elisa and Pilar Bennett. Friend of many years to Mercedes Guzman and Fernanda Macieira. A renown ophthalmologist and atte
 WIENER-Harold H. Passed away Sunday evening, May 30, 1999, at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife, Eva, and one son, Martin, a daughter, Judie, who predeceased him, also survived by seven grandchildren, and one great grandchild. Services were held at The Levitt-Weins
 YATES-Michael Scott. On May 31, 1999, at age 47. Devoted father of Parker Scott, beloved son of David and Trudy Yates, dear brother of David C. Yates and Ann Bourne, cherished brother-in-law of Constance Yates and Stephen Bourne and adored uncle of Elisabeth, Michael and Emily Bourne. Micha
 LAMONTE-James. And the angels in his flight shielded him with their wings, that good man. I'll be loving you always. Fredericka       
 Raphael Recanati, an Israeli-American shipping and banking figure better known in New York for his philanthropic largesse -- particularly as a mainstay of Beth Israel Medical Center -- died last Friday in the medical center. He was 75 and lived on the Upperast Side and in Herzliyah, Israel.
 Charles Pierce, a female impersonator who found fame in his witty satirical sendups of stage and screen icons, died on Monday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said Don Lee Kobus, a friend. A pioneer in the form, Mr. Pierce set the stage for
 Frank Spencer, an anthropologist who rummaged through the bones of controversy to theorize about the identity of the mastermind behind the Piltdown Man hoax of 1912, died on Sunday. He was 58 and lived in Bayside, Queens. The cause was cancer, said Queens College, where Dr. Spencer 
 Nathan S. Ancell, a co-founder of Ethan Allen Inc., who pioneered the concept of selling furniture in room-style settings, died Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. Ancell, who grew up in New York City and graduated from Columbia University, established a small ho
 ANCELL-Nathan S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the loss of Nathan S. Ancell, a beloved leader and cherished friend who was deeply committed to the Jewish people. A compassionate humanitarian, he earned enormous admiration for his e
 BRINSKELE-Albert M. Died on Tuesday, May 25, 1999. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, a Veteran of W.W. II and attended New York University where he received his Bachelors and MBA.       
 EMSIG-Jack. Age 85, in Florida. One of the founders of Emsig Manufacturing Corporation. We will miss him. From the Officers and staff of Emsig Manufacturing.       
 GREENE-Jerome L. The Executives and Staff of Peter Sharp & Co, Inc., deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed business associate and friend. We will miss his leadership, wisdom, and friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dawn, and the entire family. The Executives and Staff of P
 HALPERIN-William. Died unexpectedly May 30, 1999 surrounded by his family, just 22 weeks after his beloved wife, best friend and partner of 61 years, Lynn Muller Halperin. All father could ever be to Jane and Robert Willis, Mary and Martin Marlowe and Barbara Selling. Incredible, loving Gra
 ISBRANDTSEN-Waldemar (Walter). Son of the late Gertrude and Hans Isbrandtsen, died peacefully May 26 in West Babylon, New York. Surviving are his children, Lynne, Dirk, Carl, Jeff & Michelle; sister, Niel Rising; brother, Jakob C. Isbrandtsen; grandchildren, Janace, Josh, Erik, Michael, Kel
 MATTHEWS-John Clark, Ed.D. Professor emeritus at Adelphi University, of Garden City, New York, on Sunday, May 30th, following a long illness. Former chairman of Adelphi Department of Education. Survived by his devoted wife Margaret, sister Carrie of New Brunswick, Canada, and loving childre
 MAUTNER-Milton S. Age 85, on May 29, 1999. Loving and dearly loved husband for 30 years of Peggy (Margaret Park) Mautner. Widely read, musically engaged, he was a man of fine intellect, wit, talent, goodness and dignity. He was for many years a writer and editor and was a veteran of World W
 MONDSCHEIN-Murray. On May 22, 1999. Beloved husband of Gusti. Loving brother of Edith Laufer. Brother-in-law of Jack Laufer. Also survived by his nephews Lee, Bill & Sam. Granduncle to Hannah, Joshua, Daniel and Maximillian. Services 12 noon Friday at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amste
 PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeleine and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers donations may 
 PIERCE-Charles. Beloved impressionist, comedian, entertainer and friend. His star quality and tenderness was a gift to all. We will deeply miss his warmth, compassion and outrageous sense of humor. Tom Roberts, Shelley Ackerman       
 RECANATI-Raphael. The Boys Town Jerusalem family mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished member of its International Board of Directors. Mr. Recanati, together with his wife Dina, were Chair Founders and established the Recanati Scholarship Fund at Boys Town as a major perpet
 URIBE-Luis Enrique. June 1, 1999. Husband of Irma, father of Adelaida Uribe Bennett and her husband Edward G.R. Bennett and Maria del Pilar Uribe, grandfather of Edward, Elisa and Pilar Bennett. Friend of many years to Mercedes Guzman and Fernanda Macieira. A renown ophthalmologist and atte
 Sir Christopher Cockerell, the creator of the hovercraft, who often came to feel that invention was the mother of frustration, died on Tuesday at his home in Hythe, Hampshire, England. He was 88. His daughter, Francis Airy, said Sir Christopher had been ill for several months after 
 Sir Christopher Cockerell, the creator of the hovercraft, who often came to feel that invention was the mother of frustration, died on Tuesday at his home in Hythe, Hampshire, England. He was 88. His daughter, Francis Airy, said Sir Christopher had been ill for several months after 
 Crombie Taylor, an architect and teacher who helped spread the influence of the Bauhaus to American architecture during the 1940's, died on May 24. He was 85 and lived in Santa Barbara, Calif. Born in Oakmont, Pa., Mr. Taylor was educated at Penn State and Princeton University. In 1
 Crombie Taylor, an architect and teacher who helped spread the influence of the Bauhaus to American architecture during the 1940's, died on May 24. He was 85 and lived in Santa Barbara, Calif. Born in Oakmont, Pa., Mr. Taylor was educated at Penn State and Princeton University. In 1
 ANCELL-Nathan S. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of esteemed benefactor and devoted friend, Nathan Ancell. For over six decades, Mr. Ancell was a pillar of the Jewish community who provided his tireless leadership, energies and talents, as well as me
 CHAMBERLAIN-Ralph E. Died on June 2, 1999, at his home in Fly Creek, NY, age 72. A well-known businessman and philanthropist, he was Founder and Chairman of the Board of several businesses, including Precise Kit Promotions, Inc. and Holland Estill, Inc. Mr. Chamberlain dedicated much of his
 COHEN-Herbert S. On June 2, 1999. Cherished husband of Marion. Loving father of Marsha, Edward and Nadine. Devoted grandfather of Reuben and Daniel. Services Friday, June 4, 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. COHEN-Herbert. The clergy, officers and Trus
 DUBIN-Leonard. On June 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Alan and Rose. Devoted grandfather of Lisette, Justin, Zachary, Olivia and Brandon. Served in U.S. Army Air Corps 1942-1943 and awarded Purple Heart for wounds received in action. He will be with us always. Service
 GOTTLIEB-Hyman. On June 3rd, 1999 of Wyncote, PA, formerly of Oceanside, NY. Husband of Sylvia (nee Berlin), father of David Gottlieb, Martin Gottlieb, Rose Sluzas and Susan Collings, brother of Seymour Gottlieb and Esther Gilbert. Also survived by nine grandchildren. Memorial services will
 GREENE-Jerome L. The City Athletic Club mourns the death of our member Jerome L. Greene and extends heartfelt condolences to his family City Athletic Club Board of Governors       
 LARKIN-Thomas A. (Former member of Goodbody & Co.) on June 2, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Manning. Loving father of Maureen L. Watson & Edward J. Dear grandfather of 13 and 9 great grandchildren. Visiting on Friday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M., McLaughlin & Sons, 3rd Ave at 97th Street. 
 NOBLE-Ransom. Of Ridgewood, N.J. Died at age 89 on May 8. Beloved person, wise and gracious, he loved life and nature. Those whose lives he touched will cherish him always. At Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, NY, he was Professor of History for 30 years and Dean of Liberal Arts and Sciences for 1
 PAGAN-Peter M. Died Wednesday, June 2, 1999. Born in Australia and U.S. citizen for many years. Peter had a distinguished acting career and was a man of great dignity, charm, wit and humor. He will be deeply missed by friends around the world. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Actors' Fu
 PETERS-Alton E. The loss of a close friend-and Alton was certainly that-is irreversible and devastating. Only the memory remains, of shared experiences, endeavors undertaken together and perhaps successful, of journeys maybe, certainly of fun-laughter was important to Alton. He was a friend
 RECANATI-Raphael. The officers, members and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Raphael Recanati. A supporter of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, the ATS and Israel, he established an academic chair and the Recanati Israel Floor of
 REISMAN-Philip H., Jr. TV and screen writer of Larchmont, NY. Died June 1st. at Sound Shore Medical Center, New Rochelle. He was 82. Husband of Anna T. Reisman and father of Christopher, Peter, Philip III, the Rev. Catherine T.R. MacDonald and Irene M. Biada. Memorial service 10:30 a.m. Sat
 SOBEL-Dr. Robert. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Robert Sobel, Professor Emeritus of Business History. Dr. Sobel taught at Hofstra for forty years holding the Lawrence Stessin Distinguished Professorship in Business History. Upon his retirement in 1998, he acc
 WEINER-Ernest M., D.P.M. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the New York State Podiatric Medical Association mourn the passing of a former president of the Association. A gifted and respected practitioner, and an esteemed colleague and friend, he was a tireless and forceful advocate for 
 WEINER-Myron. Professor of Political Science, MIT. Died at his home in Moretown, VT, June 3, 1999. He is survived by his wife Sheila Leiman Weiner, his daughter Beth Datskovsky of Bala Cynwyd, PA, his son Saul J. Weiner of Chicago, IL and five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers donations may
 WILLIAMS-Larry, 48. A photographer, film director, and artist died on May 31 in Los Angeles, CA. He suffered a heart attack while hiking with his dog, Ed. He began his career as a photographer in London and New York. He was one of the original photographers to be exhibited at the Light Gall
 Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 68. The cause of death was 
 Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y.  He was 68. The cause of death was
 John J. McKeithen, Louisiana's first Governor to serve two consecutive terms, who practiced moderation at a time of intense racial conflict in the Deep South and gave New Orleans the Superdome, died yesterday at a hospital in Columbia, La. He was 81 and lived in Columbia. He had bee
 Michael Lax, an industrial designer best known for the craftsman-like appreciation for texture and color that he brought to such household icons of the 1960's as the Copco teakettle with the bent teak handle and the Lightolier sphere-resting-on-a-cube mini-lamp, died on May 28 at his home i
 ANCELL-Nathan S. It's very simple! I will not permit you, Nat Ancell, to walk out of my life and the lives of Daytop's youngsters without notice! Those sunrise breakfast sessions at Mill Road in Eastchester brought teacher and student together. And I, the attentive listener, soon learned ho
 BERNSTEIN - Norman. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member Norman Bernstein and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Martin Kay       
 CHAMBERLAIN-Ralph E. The extended Bassett Healthcare family joins us in mourning the loss of our esteemed trustee and benefactor Ralph E. Chamberlain. As president of the Friends of Bassett and later as chairman of Bassett's first capital campaign, Ralph helped establish an enduring philant
 COHEN-Richard M. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend Richard M. Cohen and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He help
 GITTMAN-Kallman. On June 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Rebecca for 64 years. Cherished father of Stella Cole, (Gene) and Dr. Elizabeth Gittman Arnel, (Victor). Dear brother of Anna Rottenberg. Adoring grandfather of Debbi (Lawrence); Leni, (James) and Alan; Stephen, (Joanne); Leslie (Eric), a
 LUMBARD-J. Edward. 97. On June 3, 1999. All the lawyers who served with him when he was United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and whom he referred to as partners, mourn the passing of a great lawyer, a fine teacher, an outstanding United States Attorney and a brillia
 CUFFE-Edward W. 2/16/36, Fall River, Ma.-6/5/96 at market close, NYC. Knowing the evening's empire had all turned into sand, he went to where savage indignation could no longer lacerate his heart. Go traveler. Try and imitate him if you can. He served liberty. Rage on, wherever you are. The
 NORMAN-Helen. God gave us his most precious gift of your love. You are in our hearts into eternity. We love you more than the universe. Always and forever, Janet and Brend       
 William Schuyler Pettit, president of Ursinus College until a dispute with the faculty led him to resign in 1976, died on May 25 at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. He was 90. In his six years as president of Ursinus, a liberal arts institution in Collegeville, Pa., Mr. Pettit dealt w
 Zachary Fisher, a leading New York builder and philanthropist who virtually willed the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum into existence at its Hudson River berth, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla. Mr. Fisher w
 Crocker Snow, a pilot and aviation official whose aerial adventures spanned more than seven decades, from the biplane era to the jet age, died on Tuesday at his home in Ipswich, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Snow, who had flown more than 15,000 hours in 140 types of planes, helped inaugurate
 Harold F. Grumhaus, a former executive of the Tribune Company who began his career as a loyal lieutenant of the legendary publisher Robert R. McCormick and later helped dismantle some of his conservative mentor's political and managerial legacy at the company and its flagship newspaper, die
 Dr. L. Joseph Butterfield, whose innovative care of newborns earned him a reputation as a pioneer of modern neonatology, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Children's Hospital of Denver, where he spent more than 40 years 
 Mel Torme, the fluent pop-jazz singer who earned the nickname the Velvet Fog for his smooth, soft vocal timbre, died yesterday of complications from a stroke he suffered in 1996. He was 73 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Torme was rushed early yesterday from his home to the Universit
 Olivier Debre, one of France's best-known abstract painters of the postwar era, whose large-format works include the stage curtain at the Comedie Francaise, died here on Tuesday. He was 79 and lived in Paris. Mr. Debre's form of abstract art, which he described as ''opposite to the 
 DOUGLAS-John A. 74. Died suddenly April 12, 1999 in Naples, FL. He is survived by his beloved wife Donna; seven children; seven grandchildren and one greatgrandchild. He was co-owner and CEO of Colonial Art Decorators, Inc. for 40 years and served on the Board of the Master Painters Associa
 EPSTEIN-Jules. Devoted husband of Adele, beloved father of Robert, Barbara and Richard, cherished grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. His agile mind and his charm remained intact until he left us at the age of 90.       
 FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He help
 GITTMAN-Kallman. On June 4, 1999. Beloved husband of Rebecca for 64 years. Cherished father of Stella Cole, (Gene) and Dr. Elizabeth Gittman Arnel, (Victor). Dear brother of Anna Rottenberg. Adoring grandfather of Debbi (Lawrence); Leni, (James) and Alan; Stephen, (Joanne); Leslie (Eric), a
 KORNGOLD-Herman. Of Scarsdale, NY. On June 5, 1999 at the age of 86. Survived by his wife, Gerda. Also survived by one son Peter (Arlene) Korngold, one brother Henry Korngold, sisters Carla Rogers and Jean Gossett, one granddaughter Rachel Korngold. Funeral service Monday at Ballard-Durand 
 KRUPA-Anthony Roland. Died at home in New York City on June 1, 1999. Mr. Krupa was born on December 20, 1929 in Pawtucket, R.I. The son of Michael Krupa and Nancy Bociek Krupa. Known as Tony Krupa, he was a graduate of Parsons School of Design in NYC and worked with Jacques Fath in Paris. T
 LEVINSON-Elliot. On June 4, 1999. Beloved son of the late Irving and Gladys Levinson. Dear brother of the late Michael Levinson and cherished uncle. A fabulous friend to thousands and beloved by all. He will always be remembered for his generosity, friendship, goodwill and for his many, man
 LUDWIG-Arthur Warren, M.D. 80, on June 4, 1999. Assistant Professor Clinical Medicine Mt. Sinai Medical Center. Son of Irving and Anna; beloved husband for 39 years of Laura (nee Ecker); devoted father to Amy, Andrew and Lisa Ludwig Kahn. For over 50 years in research and private practice, 
 PAGAN-Peter. Our beloved friend Peter died on June 2, 1999 leaving a unique void in all our lives. His special wit and grace will be remembered always. The love he gave us all will be sorely missed. We deeply mourn his passing but celebrate his extraordinary life. Ellie and Dick Marshall Ji
 PLATOVSKY-Naftali. We mourn the passing of our father, Rabbi Naftali Platovsky. He was a man of few words with a great sense of humor. His strength of character assisted his family through the hardships encountered in Eastern Europe. He fulfilled his lifelong dream by transporting his mothe
 RECANATI-Raphael. We extend our sincerest condolences to Dina Recanati and sons, Oudi & Michael, on the loss of their beloved husband and father. Throughout his life, together with his wife Dina, Mr. Recanati was a benefactor to a myriad of organizations and institutions in the State of Isr
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I., Col., USAF (Ret.) Formerly of New York City, now of Leander, TX, and West Shokan, NY, died of complications following a stroke in Austin, TX, on Friday, June 4, 1999, at the age of 82. He held BS and MS degrees from New York University, and was one of the first religi
 VALDIMER-Bleu, 30, of NYC. Family and friends mourn the loss of a devoted son and friend. As an entrepreneur, designer and cofounder of Project Dragon, Bleu's generosity, talent and warmhearted spirit touched the lives of countless individuals. He will be deeply missed by all those who had 
 WEINER-Myron. Professor of Political Science, MIT. Died at his home in Moretown, VT, June 3, 1999. He is survived by his wife Sheila Leiman Weiner, his daughter Beth Datskovsky of Bala Cynwyd, PA, his son Saul J. Weiner of Chicago, IL and five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers donations may
 WINCOTT-Betty. Died June 3 in Florida. Survived by two sons Gerald, and his wife Rita, and Stephen, and his wife Stephanie, fourteen grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren, and two great-greatgrandchildren. Funeral services are Sunday, 10 AM at Sherman Funeral Chapel in Brooklyn.       
 PRATS-Lucas of Chisholm Prats Gallery, NYC. 10/30/48-6/6/89. Ten years of peaceful resting, at his much beloved home in Ibiza among the olive, almond and orange trees, warm, fragrant Mediterranean breezes and ancient Phoenician tombs.       
 Philip H. Reisman Jr., a versatile screenwriter who worked in early television and motion pictures, specializing in dramas and documentaries, died on Tuesday at a hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82 and  lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Mr. Reisman's best-known work was ''All the Way H
 Bruno Caravaggi, the suave co-owner of Quo Vadis, one of New York's most fashionable Continental restaurants for almost four decades before its demise in 1984, died on May 30 at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Mr. Ca
 Col. Lloyd L. Burke, who won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for killing 100 Chinese Communist soldiers in a five-and-a-half-hour battle to capture a hill, died on Tuesday at his home in Hot Springs, Ark. He was 74. Colonel Burke died in his sleep, his family said, after he ret
 Eddie Stanky, the combative infielder whose inspired play helped bring pennants to the Brooklyn Dodgers, the Boston Braves and the New York Giants, died yesterday at a hospital in Fairhope, Ala. Stanky, who had homes in Mobile, Ala., and Fairhope, was 83. The cause was a heart attac
 Judge J. Edward Lumbard Jr., whose career as a lawyer, prosecutor and jurist spanned eight decades, highlighted by his 1955 appointment by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, died on Thursday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 97. As a 
 BRENNER-Martin. On June 5, 1999. Of New York City. Beloved and cherished husband of Leah. Adored father of Michele. Loving brother of Claire Sturmer, Leona Bochert and brother-in-law of Jack Sturmer. Also survived by his nephews Ricky, Jeffrey, and Kenny. Services 9:30 AM, Monday, at ''The 
 CAHOUET-David J. Of New York City fomerly of Bernardsville, NJ died at his family's home in Princeton, NJ on Tuesday, June 1, at age 30. Born with hemophilia he was later infected, through clotting factor transfusions with HIV and officially diagnosed by New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Ce
 FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He help
 FULLER-Frank Lanneau III. Age 80, of Pawlet, VT, formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY, died June 4, 1999. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Virginia 1940 and completed the University of Virgina Law School in 1948. Frank was a Captain in the U.S. Army and served in Italy d
 KARPER-Stephen J. Died June 3, 1999, at his home on Nantucket. Survived by his wife Diane Hoyt Karper of Nantucket; son S. James Karper, Jr., of New York, NY; daughter Annabelle H. Karper of San Diego, CA; and his mother Rose S. Karper of Miami Beach, FL. A memorial service will be held at 
 KORNGOLD-Herman. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi       
 LEAVY-Nathaniel A. On June 5, 1999. He is survived by his children, Matthew, Bruce, Amy, Stacey and Eric; and his sister, Sylvia Hack; and many grandchildren.       
 LEVINSON-Elliot. On June 4, 1999. Beloved son of the late Irving and Gladys Levinson. Dear brother of the late Michael Levinson and cherished uncle. A fabulous friend to thousands and beloved by all. He will always be remembered for his generosity, friendship, goodwill and for his many, man
 PANZER-Martin (nee Panzeroni). On June 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Elliot, Adam, and Gary. Loving brother of Joyce Fentin. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I., Col., USAF (Ret.) Formerly of New York City, now of Leander, TX, and West Shokan, NY, died of complications following a stroke in Austin, TX, on Friday, June 4, 1999, at the age of 82. He held BS and MS degrees from New York University, and was one of the first religi
 Paul S. Newman, who was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the most prolific comic-book writer of all time, died on May 30 in Columbia, Md. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Peter. Mr. Newman's stories included scripts for Superman, Mighty M
 Ralph E. Chamberlain, a philanthropist and businessman who raised the profile of the Salvation Army with national television and magazine campaigns in the 1970's, died on Wednesday of pancreatic cancer at his home in Fly Creek, N.Y., a spokesman for the Salvation Army said yesterday. He was
 Randolph Bullock, a curator emeritus of arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art who helped build its collection into one of the world's finest, died on May 28 at a hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Wickford, R.I. Perhaps Mr. Bullock's most important contrib
 Ernie Wilkins, a jazz saxophonist and one of the important arrangers and composers for the Count Basie band of the 1950's, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Copenhagan. He was 79 and lived in Copenhagen. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Jenny. Bo
 Harold S. Fawcett, a Navy photographer who captured memorable scenes of the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, died on Saturday at a hospital in Grafton, W. Va. He was 82 and lived in Bridgeport, W. Va. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Norma Webb Fawcett. S
 Louis Guirandou-N'Diaye, a member of the International Olympic Committee from the Ivory Coast in West Africa, who was censured for inappropriate behavior during the Salt Lake City bribery scandal, died Friday. He was 76. Mr. Guirandou-N'Diaye, who had suffered from intestinal proble
 ANCELL-Nathan. The Geriatrics Advisory Council of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health mourns the passing of longtime member, Nathan Ancell, and extends our sympathy to his entire family. Christine K. Cassel, M.D., Chair Henry L. Schwartz Dep
 BERNHEIM-Philip G., 88. Survived by beloved wife Gioia, children Thomas and Lynn Reese, brother Richard, three grandchildren, five great-grandchildren. Died June 4, 1999 in Tequesta, FL. Also resident of Red Bank, N.J. and formerly NYC. He graduated from Wisconsin, Phi Beta Kappa and was V.
 BLOK-Joseph, MD. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center express with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Joseph Blok, esteemed and dedicated member of the Department of Surgery for four decades. To his wife Claire, son Jef
 CAHOUET-David J. Of New York City fomerly of Bernardsville, NJ died at his family's home in Princeton, NJ on Tuesday, June 1, at age 30. Born with hemophilia he was later infected, through clotting factor transfusions with HIV and officially diagnosed by New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Ce
 CHENKIN-Alvin. Age 80, formerly of Teaneck, NJ, now of Media, Pennsylvania died peacefully on Sunday, June 6, 1999 after a very courageous struggle with congestive heart failure. His family wishes him a good journey-we will miss him but he gave us the tools we need to go on without him. He 
 FISHER-Irving L., Dr. Of Fort Lee. Beloved husband of Madeline. Devoted father of Diane Rudd and Kenneth. Dear brother of Annette Weber. Loving grandfather of Philip, Elizabeth, Samuel and Benjamin. Services at ''Wien & Wien'', Englewood, New Jersey, Tuesday at 1 PM. 1-800-322-0533 
 FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Directors of the Police Athletic League mourn the loss of Zachary Fisher, a dear friend and outstanding human being whose magnificient generosity meant so much to the 65,000 boys and girls we serve. We extend our condolences to our fellow Director, Larry Fisher,
 JACOBSON-Gaynor I. It is with great sadness that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of our dear friend and former executive vice president (1968-'81). His leadership, dedication and lifelong contribution to assisting Jews worldwide was inspirational and profound. His 
 KATZ-Joseph Howard. On June 5, 1999. Beloved husband of Marion (nee Langsan). Loving uncle of many nieces and nephews in Atlanta and NYC. Service Tuesday, 10AM, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87 St and Madison Ave, NYC. KATZ-Joseph Howard. The board, staff and members of the Jewish Associat
 KRAMER-Harold. Of Clifton, NJ age 90, died in his home June 6, 1999. He was a successful businessman, humanitarian and philanthropist. Active in the construction industry all of his life, he was one of the founders and president of the Home Builders Assoc. of Northern NJ and elected into th
 KREGER-Philip. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Philip Kreger and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Sarah and family. Ber and Frances Nisenbaum       
 LUDWIG-Arthur W., Dr. The faculty members of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai Hospital, a division of Mount Sinai N.Y.U. Health, mourn the loss of our dear colleague, Dr. Arthur W. Ludwig. After graduating from Columbia College
 MADISON-Albert (Big Al). Suddenly on June 4, 1999. Beloved son of Bartlett and Willa Mae Madison and brother of Carolyn Madison Burke, Al is survived by his devoted nephew, Alan B. Burke, niece, Constance J. Burke, Alan's wife Sonya, Godson Earl Davis, Jr. and ''brothers'' Earl Davis, Sr., 
 MALONEY-Robert G. Of Park Ridge, New Jersey, died suddenly on Sunday, June 6, 1999. Robert, the son of the late Robert and Mary Maloney and brother of the late John T. Maloney, was born in Mentor, Ohio, and grew up in the Cleveland area. He was a graduate of John Carroll University in Ohio 
 PATIENCE-Edwin S., 91. Of Bloomfield, husband of Virginia (Ziemienczyk) Patience and the late Helene Patience, died on Thursday, June 3, 1999 at Hartford Hospital. He was born in Brooklyn, NY and had lived in Garden City, NY for over forty years before moving to Bloomfield in 1993. Prior to
 PETRALIA-Mario L. Passed away June 6, 1999. Loving partner of Richard Rodrigues, caring father of Joan and Paul, devoted grandfather of Ji and Chris. All mourn his passing. Reposing at the Horne-Dannecker Funeral Home, 336 West 23rd Street, NYC Tuesday. Hours 2-5, 7-9PM. Mass of the Resurre
 QUILTY-Dan. The entire NYU community mourns the passing of its beloved and esteemed longtime athletic director. His relationship with the University lasted some fifty years, beginning as a student who played on the highly regarded NYU basketball squads of the late 1940's and culminating in 
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I., Col. The Members of the Board of Directors of the New York Society for the Deaf mourn the passing of our dear friend and former President, Colonel Joseph I. Sonnenreich. His leadership, his wisdom and his commitment to service will be greatly missed by us all. Our hea
 STRASSLER-Frieda. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Frieda Strassler, beloved mother of David H. Strassler, ADL's Honorary National Chairman. We extend our deepest condolences to David, his brother Robert and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H.
 TAX-Jeremiah. Died peacefully at home on June 5, 1999. He is mourned by his beloved children Judith and Nancy, Nina and Greg, Karen and Mark and his precious granddaughter Leslie and a large circle of family and friends. He was the former Executive Editor of Sports Illustrated Magazine and 
 ZONANA-Felix. Born Cairo, Egypt, January 22, 1915; died June 6th, 1999 in Hallandale, FL. He is survived by his loving wife, Nelly, son Victor and daughter Joyce.       
 David Seidner, a photographer known for his highly stylized fashion shots inspired by moments in art history, died on Sunday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 42. The cause was AIDS, said the lawyer for his estate, Herbert E. Nass. Mr. Seidner, born in Los Angeles, was just
 Myron Weiner, a political scientist whose studies of migration, ethnic conflicts and child labor in the developing world reflected moral purposes and influenced practical policy, died last Thursday at his home in Moretown, Vt. He was 68. The cause was brain cancer, said a spokesman 
 COHEN-Norman D. July 2, 1920June 8, 1999. Formerly of Great Neck, resided Boynton Beach. W.W. II veteran with the 511 Engineers European Campaign. Founder of Lisbeth Fabrics and active in the garment industry for thirty years. Past president Cold Spring Country Club. He will always be remem
 FISHER-Irving L., Dr. The executives and staff of Allied Office Supplies wish to express our deepest sympathy on the passing of Dr. Irving L. Fisher, the father of Kenneth M. Fisher. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to Ken and his entire family. Howard L. Brown and Staff       
 FISHER-Zachary. The shareholders of 50 Sutton Place South Owners, Inc. mourn the passing of our friend and neighbor, a member of the Fisher Brothers Company, who was actively instrumental in the construction of 50 Sutton Place South, who helped assure the proper management of the building a
 HICKEY-Roger Andrew, Jr. Of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died June 6. Ladenburg Thalmann employed him from 1965 until his retirement in 1990. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Lloyd, whom he married in 1952; son, Mark and wife, AnnMarie with children Christina and Laura; son Laurence and wife, Ho
 KRISTELLER-Paul Oskar. Born in Berlin on May 22, 1905, died on June 7, 1999 at his home. He was Woodbridge Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Columbia University. He is survived by many nieces and nephews residing in the United States and Europe. Service 2:30PM Wednesday at ''Riverside'' 7
 MAUER-Irving, MD. Practiced orthopedic surgery for fifty years in Queens and was on the staff of the Orthopedic Institute and Parkway Hospital. He organized physicians to volunteer their services at Hadassah Hospital in Israel from 1964 to 1973. Many of these physicians including Dr. Mauer 
 OKUN-Abraham. Of Delray Beach, Florida, formerly of Teaneck, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Devoted father of William and his wife Alane and Stephanie Podvesker. Brother of Hyman. Grandfather of Howie, Michael, Jennifer, Hughie, Amy, Lori and Richie. Devoted companion of th
 PORTER-H. Boone, Rev. Canon, D.D. Age 76, of Southport, CT, former editor of The Living Church Magazine, and a revisor of the Episcopal Church's present Book of Common Prayer, husband of Violet Monser Porter, died on Saturday, June 5, 1999. Burial Service will be held Friday, June 11, 1999,
 SEIDNER-David. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Community Research Initiative on AIDS (CRIA) mourn the passing of our friend, advocate and Board Member, David Seidner. One of the earliest champions of CRIA's efforts to find new AIDS treatments, David's innate scientific curiosity and 
 SHIRKEN-Maurice. Born in NYC on May 18, 1932. Survived by his wife Arlene of 46 years, his son Scott and wife Susan, daughter Lynn and husband Daniel Mosner and two granddaughters Blair and Hilary Mosner. He was predeceased by his son Brad; beloved brother of Natalie Fluger and Naomi Prufer
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him at services on Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, at 11:30AM. We wil
 WADE-Sean. Native of County Mayo, Ireland. Peacefully died at home on Monday evening, June 7, 1999. He is survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, Rosaleen (nee O'Shea), his children, Rory, John and Ann Marie, and his five grandchildren whom he adored. He owned and managed Andy's Meat Mark
 George S. Dillon, a former president, chief executive and chairman of the Air Reduction Company, died of cancer on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, his son Peter Dillon said. He was 81. A Brooklyn native, at the time of his death Mr. Dillon maintained residence
 Henry J. Kurth, a theater lighting and set designer who created scenery for Martha Graham, Erick Hawkins and Doris Humphrey, died on Sunday at his home in Cleveland. He was 81. Trained at the Goodman Theater and the Art Institute of Chicago, Mr. Kurth designed more than 450 theater 
 Kenneth Dodson, who wrote best-selling books about his experiences as a seaman in World War II, died on May 24 at his home in Stanwood, Wash. He was 91. After graduating from high school, Mr. Dodson spent 20 years in the Merchant Marine. Shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1
 BRADLEY-Stanley E., MD. Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Stanley E. Bradley, Bard Professor Emeritus of Medicine. His long distinguished career with Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center began as an Assistant Profess
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GURMANKIN-Joseph. We express our condolences to our collegue and friend, Robert Gurmankin on the passing of his beloved father. May the memory of his life serve to comfort you and Elise, and his grandchildren, Jeffrey, Hannah and Zachary in the days and years ahead. Roanna Shorofsky, Direct
 HERMAN-Alpert, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our beloved colleague and dedicated member of the Department of Psychiatry for over 50 years. Dr. Alpert was a founding member of the Division of Group Psychotherapy and had a distin
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 JACOBSEN-Gaynor. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Gaynor Jacobsen of Phoenix, Arizona. Gaynor's work saved lives and played a critical role in Jewish history. Principled and est
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RAISIN-Albert. Age 77. On June 9, 1999. Our Dad and beloved husband of Audrey. Entrepreneur, aviator and instigator. His warmth, humor and love will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Carrie Bellware, Steven and Matthew Kaiser       
 SEIDNER-David. The American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourns the loss of our talented and generous friend, a leading light in the world of art and fashion, and an outspoken advocate in the fight against AIDS. A world - renowned photographer, David was an early supporter of Art Ag
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 Paul Oskar Kristeller, a leading authority on Renaissance philosophy, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Professor Kristeller began teaching at Columbia University in 1939, became Woodbridge Professor of philosophy there in 1968 and retired in 1973. Columbia
 Robert J. McDonald, a tax lawyer for many years at Sullivan & Cromwell, the New York-based law firm, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause of death was heart disease, said Willard B. Taylor, a close friend and a partner in the law firm. Mr. McDonald 
 William Everest Ryan, a Federal prosecutor who in the 1960's helped obtain the criminal conviction of James R. Hoffa, the teamsters' president, died on May 28 at a health care center in Baltimore. He was 78 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The cause was a neurological disorder, said 
 William R. Hess, a microbiologist and a leading expert in African swine fever, died on May 29 at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 82, and lived in Tuftonboro, N.H. Dr. Hess spent his life researching how to prevent and control the kinds of diseases that
 The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, an Episcopal theologian and liturgical scholar who played a leading role in modernizing the church's Book of Common Prayer in 1979, died on Saturday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76 and lived in Southport, Conn. The cause was pneum
 Rick Fields, a journalist, poet and leading authority on Buddhism's history and development in the United States, died on Sunday at his home in Fairfax, Calif. He was 57. The cause was lung cancer, said Helen Tworkov, a longtime friend and the editor in chief of Tricycle: The Buddhi
 Robert J. Lapham, who served as president of Conde Nast Publications from 1974 through 1986, died June 4  at a nursing home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Corona del Mar, Calif. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Edith, said. During his years as pre
 DeForest Kelley, the crotchety country doctor who healed countless human and nonhuman patients as Dr. Leonard McCoy on the science fiction series ''Star Trek,'' died yesterday at the Motion Pictures and Television Fund Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79, and had last donned a space uniform 
 Judge Giles S. Rich, the oldest active Federal judge in the country's history, who helped draft the nation's patent laws and later, as a patent judge, became a powerful advocate for the rights of inventors, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Washington. He was 95. The cause was l
 John Calhoun Baker, president emeritus of Ohio University, who guided it through the burgeoning enrollment when the veterans of World War II surged in under the G.I. Bill, died on Wednesday at a retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where he moved three years ago. A former resident of E
 John Wesley Mayhew Whiting, a professor emeritus of social anthropology at Harvard who studied learning processes and child development in varying societies, died on May 13 at home in Chilmark, Mass., in the house where he was born on Martha's Vineyard. He was 90. Dr. Whiting and hi
 ALPERT-Herman S., MD. On June 10, 1999. Distinguished psychiatrist in private practice since 1947. Member of the attending and teaching staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine. Beloved husband of Harriet and the late Eileen. Loving father of Cheryl Alpert Sofer, Jeffrey Alpert, M
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MERRILL-Gilbert. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife Julia, and family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 NICHOLS-Douglas R., 104. Of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ died June 6, 1999. Mr. Nichols was the son of the late Mr. & Mrs. E. Remington Nichols of Llewellyn Park, West Orange, New Jersey. His maternal grandfather was Mr. James Mitchell, the first Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr.
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RUBIN-Samuel (Sydney). Age 87, of Allendale, NJ formerly of Cliffside Park, NJ, on June 10, 1999. Survived by his wife Rose; daughters, Judith and Joel Dorfman and Joan & Irwin Leib; brother, Henry; five grandchildren, Eric, Dana and Craig Dorfman and David and Jennifer Leib; two great-gran
 SACK-Rabbi Eugene J. The entire community of Congregation Beth Elohim mourns the passing of our beloved Rabbi emeritus, Eugene J. Sack who will long be remembered as a great spiritual leader. He was a man of grace and style whose eloquence, compassion and concern for social justice enriched
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 Ron Link, a director known for his work off Off Broadway in the 1970's and 80's and later in experimental theater in Los Angeles, died on Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 58 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cardiac failure after abdominal surgery, said Dan Gerrity,
 Eugene Kalbacher, the publisher and editor of Hot House, a small monthly magazine covering the jazz world, died on May 25 at his home in Rockaway Township, N.J. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lynn. As a young jazz journalist in the early 1980's, Mr. Kalbache
 Karl Z. Morgan, a founder of the field of health physics, the science of human health and radiation exposure, died on Tuesday in Oak Ridge, Tenn., after years as a top official at the national laboratory there. He was 91. Dr. Morgan was a member of the metallurgical laboratory staff
 BAKER-John Calhoun. Died June 9, age 103. President of Ohio University, Athens, OH, for 16 years (1945-1962), he oversaw post-WWII expansion, upgraded academic standards, instituted Ph.D. programs, enlarged and enhanced the physical plant, and established University branches for educational
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 DUNN-Stephen P. Died on June 4th, 1999 at home in Kensington, California. Born March 24, 1928 to the geneticist L.C. Dunn and Louise P. Dunn. Stephen struggled throughout his life with cerebral palsy. He was educated at Lincoln School of Columbia University, Columbia College, and Columbia U
 GOLDEN-Lester M., Dr. On May 30, 1999. Son of Frank and Julia Golden and brother of Shirley Krause. Services were held June 3rd. He will be missed.       
 GREENE-Jerome L. On May 27, 1999, at age 93. Beloved husband of Dawn Greene. Loving father of Patricia Humphrey and the late Cynthia Sue Greene & stepfather of Christina McInerney. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Joel Humphrey. Interment is private. Memorial service at Temple Emanu-El, 
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 HIGINBOTHAM-Paul. The family and friends of pianist, G. Paul Higinbotham, are deeply saddened by his death on May 10, 1999. Born in 1920 in Victor, NY, Paul received a Bachelor of Music from Oberlin Conservatory of Music in 1949 and toured Europe with the Mozart Trio in the 1950's. Later he
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEE-Marvin. Age 98, of Ithaca, NY, died Thursday, June 10, 1999. He was born on March 31, 1901, in Brooklyn, NY. He received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute (Polytechnic University) in 1922, and served on the Polytechnic's Board of Trustee
 MacDONALD - Robert George. Robert George MacDonald, 36, of New York City, NY, died Sunday (June 6, 1999). Born on April 4, 1963, Rob grew up in Simsbury and was a former resident of Storrs and Willimantic. Rob attended the University of Connecticut and City College of New York. Rob was a ro
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RICH-Giles S. A quiet jurist and gentle man who by his tireless scholarship and faithful devotion to the patent law, turned our American century into an inventive, productive powerhouse, to the benefit of us all. John A. Reilly       
 SACK-Eugene J., Rabbi. Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation Beth Elohim. Beloved husband of Florence & the late Sylvia. Loving father of Robert and Steven. Father-in-law of Anne and Joyce. Devoted brother of Rose Serebreny. Adored grandfather of Deborah, Suzanne, and David. In lieu of flowers, do
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 DWORKIN-Leonard, in loving tribute. To Lenny who made his transition on June 5, 1998. Born in the Bronx, at 10 he established a legendary basement workshop where he created ingenious objects. Inventing in the tradition of bricolage, Lenny built the first strobe lights for entertainment use.
 WINTER-Benjamin. On the 55th anniversary of his death, we remember with love our dear father and grandfather-June 16th, 1944.       
 Gen. Charles Day Palmer, the four-star general in charge of American forces in Europe in the early 1960's, died on June 7. He was 97. General Palmer died in Knollwood, the Army retirement home in Washington, said his nephew, Michael Neill. The cause was heart failure. Genera
 Ilya Musin, the Russian conductor who taught a generation of maestros while remaining relatively unknown outside his own country, died on June 6 in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 95. During his six-decade tenure at the St. Petersburg State Conservatory, formerly the Leningrad Conser
 John Lloyd, a British archeologist who unearthed relics yielding new information about day-to-day living in classical times, died on May 30 in Oxford, England. He was 51 and had worked with Oxford University's Institute of Archeology for a decade. He had a brain tumor, said The Inde
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 ESTROFF-Sidney. On June 11, 1999. He is survived by his wife Sylvia; children Karen and Michael Stutland; Paul and Michael Estroff; Amy, Marc and Harriet Herman; grandsons Bradley Stutland, Brian and Michael Herman; and sister Hilda. His humor and sharp wit will be missed.       
 GREENE-Jerome L. On May 27, 1999, at age 93. Beloved husband of Dawn Greene. Loving father of Patricia Humphrey and the late Cynthia Sue Greene & stepfather of Christina McInerney. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Joel Humphrey. Interment is private. Memorial service at Temple Emanu-El, 
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LAZARUS-Zachary (''Zack''). Age 36, of Virginia Beach, VA, on June 11, 1999. Born in Buffalo, NY, he was the Executive Director of the Bruce Smith Charity Golf Classic. Survived by his wife Maria Lazarus; his father Judge Robert J. Lazarus of New York City; motherin-law Carmela Rocco; broth
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RICH-Giles S. A quiet jurist and gentle man who by his tireless scholarship and faithful devotion to the patent law, turned our American century into an inventive, productive powerhouse, to the benefit of us all. John A. Reilly       
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TAUB-Martin G. Devoted husband of Frances Israel Taub, deceased. Loving father of Richard, David and Linda. Loving grandfather of Andrew, Marc and Sandy, Josh and Lisa, Neela, and Zach. Loving great-grandfather of Jake. Died June 12, 1999, after a valiant struggle. Wine merchant extraordina
 Henry Grunfeld, a refugee from Nazi Germany who helped his fellow expatriate Siegmund G. Warburg build an investment banking empire that transformed the British financial world after World War II, died Thursday. He was 95. Mr. Grunfeld was a senior adviser to Warburg Dillon Read, th
 Kenneth Sidney Davis, the author of a four-volume biography of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jean. Mr. Davis did not belong to the fraternity of trained historians. Yet, lik
 BERNARD-Lou. Passed away June 9, 1999. Beloved father of Toni Ann. Devoted brother of Helen Sissenwine. A good man with a kind heart. May he rest in peace.       
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GENTLEMAN-Alexander W., Colonel (USMC, RET.). 85. Resident of Carefree, AZ. Died suddenly of a heart attack on June 12, 1999 at Arizona Heart Hospital, Phoenix. He is survived by his wife of forty years, Sissie. In iieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Scottsdale Healthcare Fou
 GREEN-Morris L., Dr. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Israel mourn the untimely passing of their esteemed member, Honorary Alumnus of the University and past Chairman of its Global Board of Trustees, Dr. Morris L. Green. In the few years we were privileged to enjoy his leaders
 GREENE-Jerome L. The Board, staff and the entire Lincoln Center family deeply mourn the death of our cherished friend and supporter, Jerome Greene. Jerry was a longtime member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors and Emeriti Council, and provided guidance and vision for all our activities
 GROBART-Doris Leah. The Officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of The Hamptons, mourn the passing of Doris Leah Grobart, beloved mother of Bernard Grobart, a devoted member of our Board of Trustees. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Da
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 JENKINS - Thomas (Edward), Brother, F.S.C. age 85, of De La Salle Hall, Lincroft, New Jersey on June 14. He was born in NYC and had received the habit of the Brothers of the Christian Schools in 1931. He began his teaching career at Bishop Loughlin High School, Brooklyn, NY in 1935 and rema
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEVITAS-Irving M., M.D. Of Reston, VA., formerly of Westwood, N.J. on Thursday, May 27, 1999. Educated at Staunton Military Academy, Dartmouth College and the Down State University of Medicine of N.Y.C. Dr. Levitas was a Diplamate for the Board of Internal Medicine and a Fellow of the Ameri
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SEROY-Harold. Age ninty-seven, died at his home in Lake Worth, FL. on June 14, 1999. Formerly of Stamford, CT. Husband of the late Ethel. Survived by his son, Martin, his daughter, Raphaela, five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Interment Tuesday, June 15 at Menorah Gardens at 10
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TAUB-Martin G. Devoted husband of Frances Israel Taub, deceased. Loving father of Richard, David and Linda. Loving grandfather of Andrew, Marc and Sandy, Josh and Lisa, Neela, and Zach. Loving great-grandfather of Jake. Survived by brothers Jack and wife Faye, Larry and wife Eleanor. Died J
 Dr. Floyd Ratliff, a physiological psychologist and biophysicist who explored the depths of consciousness and perception, died on Sunday in  Santa Fe, N.M., where he moved after retiring from Rockefeller University in New York. He was 80. Dr. Ratliff combined expertise in his specia
 Joseph Druffel, a prolific architect of low-income housing in New York City for the last 25 years, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from amyloidosis, a disorder in which prote
 CASE-Vincent T., Reverend Monsignor. Pastor of the Immaculate Conception and Assumption Churches, the Catholic Community of Tuckahoe, died on June 13, 1999 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx after a long illness. He was born in New York City on May 4, 1932, son of Lillian Marinelli and Philip
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 HERSH-Edward, M.D. Sadly we have lost our oldest brother, the patriarch of our family. A rare and wonderful human being, our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Najla, his children, and grandchildren. Albert and Bernard       
 KEAN-John J., Msgr. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Peter Claver Church, Brooklyn, on June 13. Reposing in Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221st Street, Queens Village, on Wednesday, June 16, from 1 to 5 P.M. Mass of Transferral at 7:30 P.M. Funera
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LAGANA-Philip E., Honorable, New York State Supreme Court Justice, on June 15, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife, Josephine (nee Schiro). Loving brother of Francis Lagana. Brother-in-law of Marian & Louis Modica. Beloved uncle of Dr. Gregory and Tish Lagana, Lorraine and Knick Irving, Jani
 MALONEY-Walter E. Of Convent Station on June 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Hilda Ruppert Maloney. Father of James Maloney of Chatham, John F. Donohoe of Short Hills, Thomas Maloney of Houston, TX, Claire D. O'Mara of New Vernon, Edgar Donohoe of New Vernon, Katheryn D. Schuessler of Doylesto
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MURRAY-James G. The Capital Markets Credit Analysts Society notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of a dear friend and esteemed member. Jim will be remembered for the many contributions he made to the field of credit analysis. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RATLIFF-Floyd. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend, Floyd Ratliff. Dr. Ratliff was a pioneer in the study of the neural mechanisms of vision, particularly how the retina performs the task of analyzing and r
 SEIGERMAN-Joel. The entire staff of Chavin Lambert Advertising is extremely saddened at the untimely passing of Joel Seigerman, loving father of our esteemed colleague and Senior Vice President, Jill Seigerman. He was a beloved principal, teacher and friend to many. Our deepest sympathies t
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TAUB-Martin G. The National Conference for Community and Justice is deeply saddened by the passing of one of our respected leaders and former honoree of the Wine & Spirits Division. He was a long time friend and benefactor and we offer our deepest sympathy to his son David, and grandson Mar
 TOTTEN-William Edward, 69. Of Key West, Florida on June 14, 1999. The son of Hazel Cook and John J. Totten (both deceased). He was born May 17, 1930 in NYC. Mr. Totten was Advertising Manager for several menswear divisions of Burlington Industries following his initial work experience as an
 Bruno Balke, a sports medicine innovator who preached a regimen of sensible exercise as an antidote to heart ailments, died on June 7 at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Junction, Colo. He was 91 and had lived in Grand Junction in retirement. Dr. Balke was credited with being the first 
 Harold E. Kohn, a lawyer who filed some of the earliest class action lawsuits accusing corporations of anti-competitive practices, died Monday at his home in Philadelphia, a law partner said. He was 85. In the 1960's, Mr. Kohn became nationally known when he won a key case against G
 J. F. Powers, who won a National Book Award in 1963 for his first novel, ''Morte d'Urban,'' and had a long career as a writer of sardonic but deeply compassionate fiction about Roman Catholic priests in the Midwest of the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Collegeville, Minn. He
 BELFER-Harry J. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George Abrahams, President       
 BUCKNELL-Nathaniel S. (Nat), 44, died on June 7, 1999. He was an advocate in the fight against AIDS and all injustice. An artist, a dreamer, a friend. Deeply loved, he will never be forgotten. Good night, sweet prince. And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.       
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GOLDBERGER - Bernard. On June 15, 1999. Beloved father of Alan and his wife, Louise. Devoted grandfather of Karlyn, and Robert and his wife, Susan. Cherished great grandfather of Jason, Jared, Arielle, and Jesse. Graveside services at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, Queens, Friday 1:00 PM.  
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 JACOBSON-Gaynor I. The officers and executive staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the recent passing of Gaynor I. Jacobson, a very significant professional leader of the Jewish community whose influence was felt throughout the Jewish world. He was executive vice president of the
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LAGANA-Philip E., Honorable, New York State Supreme Court Justice, on June 15, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife, Josephine (nee Schiro). Loving brother of Francis Lagana. Brother-in-law of Marian & Louis Modica. Beloved uncle of Dr. Gregory and Tish Lagana, Lorraine and Knick Irving, Jani
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MURRAY-James G. Of Ridgewood, NJ, formerly of Park Ridge, NJ, died suddenly on Tuesday, June 8, 1999. James, son of the late James G. and Gertrude Murray was born in Jersey City, NJ. He is survived by his wife Carolyn (nee Ceru), his daughters Lorelei and Kristine, his sister Lois Andes of 
 PIERCE-C. Eliot, 84. Of Northeast Harbor, Maine. Died on Saturday, June 12th. in Bar Harbor, Maine. He is survived by his beloved wife of 58 years, Dora Redway Pierce of Northeast Harbor and by his son Charles E. Pierce Jr. of Manhattan and Salt Point, NY, his daughter Edith P. Murphy of Ro
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMERLING-William C. Of New York City on June 15, 1999 at age 93. Highly respected life insurance consultant associated with Connecticut General for over 50 years was revered by his colleagues and clients. Beloved husband of Sylvia and the late Amelia. Loving father of Marjorie and Arnold Go
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 Basil Cardinal Hume, who led the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales for 23 years, forging a renewed public role for the institution in a country where even the word ''Popish'' had long been a derogatory adjective, died yesterday in London. He was 76. The cause was cancer, hi
 Jack M. Campbell, a former governor of New Mexico, died on Monday in a retirement home in Santa Fe. He was 82. Mr. Campbell, a Democrat, served two terms as Governor from 1963 to 1967 and four terms in the State House of Representatives, including two years as Speaker. Remem
 BOKAT-Peter A., M.D. Died June 16, 1999, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Mona. Devoted father of Nicole, Pamela and Wayne. Father-in-law to Jay Lindell and cherished grandfather of Noah and Spencer. Dr. Bokat's only sibling, Dr. Michael A. Bokat, died of cancer in 1968 at the age 
 COPPERSMITH-Harold H., Dr. The Medical Staff of the NYU Downtown Hospital notes with profound regret the passing of Dr. Coppersmith, a highly respected and cherished colleague. He was an astute clinician and teacher, trusted and beloved by his patients and students, and treasured by his fri
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GITLIN-Buz (Alan). Of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. Died at 52, after a long illness. Devoted son of Rose and the late Mac of Great Neck. He was the precious husband of Jane Samuels for almost 30 years and the adored and adoring father of Nikki. Beloved brother of Bruce Gitlin (Carol Schrager) and S
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KRISTELLER-Paul Oskar. The members of the Philosophy Department at Columbia University express their sadness at the death of their distinguished colleague Paul Oskar Kristeller. He contributed immeasurably to the prestige of our department and will be deeply missed.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LAGANA-Philip E., Hon. The Brooklyn Law School community notes with profound sadness the passing of New York State Supreme Court Justice Philip E. Lagana, a member of the Class of 1948. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Josephine, his brother, Francis, and his entire family. Pau
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MOCCIA-Nicholas P. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Senior Field Vice President and respected colleague, Nick Moccia. His contributions to the strength and character of the company will be a guide for
 PIERCE-C. Eliot, 84. Of Northeast Harbor, Maine. Died on Saturday, June 12th. in Bar Harbor, Maine. He is survived by his beloved wife of 58 years, Dora Redway Pierce of Northeast Harbor and by his son Charles E. Pierce Jr. of Manhattan and Salt Point, NY, his daughter Edith P. Murphy of Ro
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RAMSEY-Robert H., 89. Died Thursday, June 17, in Southbury, CT. He was the husband of Vera (Volkert) Ramsey of Southbury and loving father of Jill R. Edgar of Stamford, CT, grandfather of Christopher Edgar of Stamford and Timothy Edgar of New York City. He was predeceased by his son, Robert
 REINHARDT-Hal, Dr. On June 16, 1999. Beloved husband, loving father, grandfather and brother. We will miss you always REINHARDT-Hal, Dr. With deep sadness, we mourn the passing of our dear, sweet friend Hal. We extend our sympathy to his beloved wife Dorothy, his children and the re
 ROBIN-Jose. On June 16th, 1999. Mr. Robin arrived in the U.S. from Cuba in 1960. He was co-founder and president of Perobin Jewelry Corp. Beloved husband of Margarita, loving father of Sergio Robin, Frances Robin Strauss and fatherin-law of Rosemary Robin and Robert Strauss, dear brother of
 SMERLING - William. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Sylvia, his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and all his loved ones. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President    
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STONIER-Tom T., Professor. 72, noted scientist and humanist of S. Egremont, MA. died at home, June 15, 1999. Survived by his wife, Judith, seven children and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 20th at 2PM at the Egremont Congregational Church, Main St, S. Egremo
 Screaming Lord Sutch, the leader of the Official Monster Raving Loony party, who delighted even the victims of his lampooning of British politics over three decades, has died in London. He was 58. He was discovered hanged in his North London home on Wednesday afternoon by his partne
 Bob Bullock, among the last of the earthy, string-pulling, hard-living political giants who used to sprout in Texas as thick as bluebonnets, died early yesterday at his home in Austin from what aides said was congestive heart failure. He was 69. Blunt, mercurial and often fearsome, 
 Cecil Morgan, a leader of the group of Louisiana state legislators that impeached but failed to convict the popular and populist demagogue Gov. Huey P. Long in 1929, died last Monday at his home in New Orleans. He was 100. Representative Morgan and other state legislators who were a
 Lawrence Stone, a social historian whose broad view of the past helped transform historical studies, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Jeanne. Professor Stone, who taught at Princeton University for 
 Oswald Tippo, a former provost and botany professor at the University of Massachusetts and the first chancellor there, died on June 10 at a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Amherst. He was in Santa Barbara for a grandchild's wedding. He was provost from 1964 
 BLOOM-Aaron died Thursday, June 17 in Branford, CT. He was born August 25, 1913 in New York City, son of Joseph and Frances Bloom. He grew up in Brooklyn and participated in the US Army invasion of Omaha Beach on DDay. He was predeceased by his wife of over 45 years, Shirley Beskind Bloom. 
 COURTNEY-John J. On June 17, 1999. Retired General Superintendent of M.A.B.S.T.O.A. Beloved husband of Catherine (nee O'Connor). Loving father of Neal, Nora Doherty, Peggy McLaughlin and Eileen Pfingst. Cherished grandfather of eight. Dear brother of Michael and uncle of five. Reposing Satu
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DOHERTY-John Henry, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn, with profound sorrow, the death of John Henry Doherty, M.D. As a resident and during his nearly 30 years on the medical staff at HSS, he provided the very finest quali
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GOEHNER-Fred. On June 18, 1999. Of New York City. Beloved husband of Amy Lennard Goehner. Dedicated dad to Nate and Joey. Devoted son of Eloise and Frederick. Dear brother Ann and Carol. A good friend and nice guy. Services 10:15AM Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. C
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KNIGHT-Patrick T. Former Secretary-Treasurer and President of Social Service Employees Union Local 371, on May 24. At the time of his death, Pat was an organizer for AFSCME. A strong proponent of participatory democracy, Pat contributed to the spirit and building of both Local 371 and the n
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LYNN-Marshall. On June 16, 1999. Beloved father of Vanessa, son of Verda, husband of Sylvia, brother of Sandra. Served our nation valiantly in Vietnam. Attended Duke University and Northern Valley High School, Demarest, NJ, where in 1960 he was a member of the mile relay team that won the P
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 MANLEY-John M. Born New York City, on April 4, 1919. Died suddenly at home in La Jolla, CA, June 18, 1999. He was a loyal son of Dartmouth College, a devoted husband, a loving father, an adoring grandfather. He is survived by his wife Carla of La Jolla, CA, his daughter Ann Schlesinger, and
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MOCCIA-Nicholas P. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn the passing of our former Senior Field Vice President and respected colleague, Nick Moccia. His contributions to the strength and character of the company will be a guide for
 PIERCE-C. Eliot, 84. Of Northeast Harbor, Maine. Died on Saturday, June 12th. in Bar Harbor, Maine. He is survived by his beloved wife of 58 years, Dora Redway Pierce of Northeast Harbor and by his son Charles E. Pierce Jr. of Manhattan and Salt Point, New York, his daughter Edith P. Murphy
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 Bob Briner, a pioneer professional tennis administrator and later a television sports executive, died Friday night in his home in Greenville, Ill. He was 63. He learned last September that he had abdominal cancer, his company, ProServ, said. Mr. Briner was a key figure in br
 Douglas Seale, a British producer, actor and director whose 65-year career on both sides of the Atlantic brought him to the stage, films and television, died last Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.. Mr. Seale's most recent appearance was
 AMSEL-Melvyn B., M.D. We, The Board of Trustees, and Staff of Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center, and The Members of The Department of Surgery are saddened by the death of Dr. Melvyn Amsel, a long-time member of our Surgical Attending Staff. Dr. Amsel joined The Hospital in 1962 and retired in 1
 CANICK-Paul M. Died June 16, 1999 in Norristown, PA from complications from diabetes. A native New Yorker, Paul served the city as Assistant Fire Commissioner from 1968 to 1971. Deputy Police Commissioner for Adminstration from 1971 to 1974, and New York City's first Deputy Commissioner of 
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DOHERTY-John Henry, M.D. 73, died June 17, 1999. He was born March 28, 1926 to Frank Doherty and Marie Ormsby of Mt. Vernon. His brother, Frank Doherty, died January 1983. He attended Mt. St. Michael's High School, Bronx, Holy Cross College and New York Medical College. On June 24, 1950, he
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HECHT-Charles E. On June 17, 1999 in his 89th year, in Albany, N.Y. Born in New York City. Beloved husband of the late Rita (nee Rau) and the late Deola (nee Gairrett). Loving father of Bruce and Joy. Devoted father-in-law of Mary Ellen Scherer and Richard Moore. Adored brother of Miriam Pi
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KNIGHT-Patrick T. Former Secretary-Treasurer and President of Social Service Employees Union Local 371, on May 24. At the time of his death, Pat was an organizer for AFSCME. A strong proponent of participatory democracy, Pat contributed to the spirit and building of both Local 371 and the n
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 La SALA-Andrew J., Sr. On June 18, 1999. Beloved father of Stephen H. A. La Sala, Mary Louise Verni, Paula Alice LeFebvre and Andrew J. La Sala, Jr. Dear brother of Frank, Anthony and A. Stephen La Sala and dear grandfather of 11 grandchildren and great-grandfather of 15 great-grandchildren
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 MANLEY-John M. Born New York City, on April 4, 1919. Died suddenly at home in La Jolla, CA, June 18, 1999. He was a loyal son of Dartmouth College, a devoted husband, a loving father, an adoring grandfather. He is survived by his wife Carla of La Jolla, CA, his daughter Ann Schlesinger, and
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 McRAE-Frederic A. Age 77, formerly of New York City and Sanibel Island, FL, died June 17 in Fort Myers, FL. A graduate of Dartmouth College, he served in the U.S. Army Air Force in World War II in China and was production manager for William Morrow Publishing for many years. Donations may b
 MITCHELL-Frank. Passed away in Sydney, June 16. Designer, artist and friend to many. He will be missed by all who loved him here and in Australia. Love forever, Leo and Steven       
 PERLMAN-Harold. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of their member, Harold Perlman, and extends our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Gloria and his entire family. Robert Goldberg, President Walter Warheit, Secretary       
 PODEA-Titus, 86. Died Thursday, June 17. Born in Youngstown, OH, on September 21, 1912, while his father, the head of the Romanian Orthodox Church in the United States ministered to the steelworkers of that area. After his family returned to Romania following World War I, he earned his Doct
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 ROBIN-Jose. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed member and Patron. Condolences to his beloved wife Margarita, children and grandchildren. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 SLAVIN-Jacob. Beloved father of Leontine Temsky of Nyack and Steve Slavin of Brooklyn, brother of Ted, grandfather of Eric and Jonah, great grandfather of Eleni, Elizabeth, Justine, Sophie, and Daniel. Jacob Slavin taught mathematics at Madison, Lincoln, and Brooklyn Tech from the mid 1930'
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STONE-Robert A. On June 11. Beloved husband of Kazuko. Devoted father of Dorian and Gem. Painter of Vanitas. A memorial will be held on July 11 in his studio.       
 SZABO-Tibor, Dr. Died June 18th in Sarasota, FL. Loving and devoted husband of Ruth Simon Szabo. Loving brother of Martha Koyacs. Uncle of Andrea and Dr. Karoly Koyacs. Dr. Szabo was Director of Animal Research at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City until 1989. He also received a Master of 
 Walter E. Maloney, a nationally known admiralty lawyer for many years, died on Monday at a nursing home in Chatham, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Convent Station, N.J. Mr. Maloney, whose specialty involved the law of the sea, served as chief attorney for the American Merchan
 Clifton Fadiman, the essayist, critic, editor and indefatigable anthologist whose encyclopedic knowledge made him a mainstay of ''Information Please'' and other popular radio programs in the late 1930's, 40's and 50's, died yesterday on Sanibel Island, Fla. He was 95 and lived on the nearby
 Henri VI, Count of Paris, who might have been King if France were still a monarchy, died on Saturday in the family home in Dreux. He was 90 and had been suffering from prostate cancer. His eldest son, also Henri, 66 -- one of nine surviving children, six of them daughters -- immedia
 Louis J. Glickman, a widely known real estate investor and philanthropist, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Glickman formed a Manhattan-based real estate investment company in 1942 and was widely active in real estate investments i
 BERMAN-Alfred, M.D. FACS. 88 years of age, of Bayside, NY. Beloved husband of Bernice for 53 years. Father of Steven and Wendy Berman of Vermont; Michael and Rachel Berman, and Peter and Jean Berman of New York. He was a devoted family man who took pride in his grandchildren, Megan, Travis 
 DEIRO-Pietro (Lee), Jr. On June 19, 1999, at age 85. Founder of Pietro Deiro Publications. He pioneered and convinced popular songwriters to compose easy arrangements for the accordion. He was responsible for the development of the accordionist Tops in Pops, as well as composing and publish
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HALBFINGER - Martin William (Bill). Died on June 19, 1999, at age 62, of heart failure after years battling Alzheimer's Disease. Beloved husband of Andrea, precious son of Margaret and the late Jacob, cherished father of Caren and David, caring brother of Elaine Tanenvapf. Beloved grandfath
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEVIN-Murray, M.D. Saturday, June 19, 1999, of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of the late Julia. Devoted father of Myrna Higgins. Dear brother of Sylvia Holt and Ruth Riccardi. Adored grandfather of Lynn Higgins Gilbert, Thomas Higgins and Carol Higgins. Also survived by six great-grandchi
 LEWIS-Irving T. On June 18, 1999, in his 93rd year. Beloved husband of Ann. Dear father of Patricia Braverman and Susan (Norman) Kominsky. Loving grandfather of Cary, Alice, Julie Reva and Andrew, and great-grandfather of Bryn and Finnley Wren. Services today, June 21, 12 noon, at ''The Riv
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STEINHOLTZ-Lester, Dr. Died at his home in DeWitt, NY. He was born July 31, 1922, in New York City where he graduated from City College and NYU's College of Dentistry. His contributions over the years to the professions of oral surgery and dentistry as clinician, professor, mentor of young 
 STONE - Lawrence. Professor Stone was an inspired and inspiring teacher and mentor. He will be missed. Our sincere condolences to his family on their loss. Miriam and Paul Slater       
 Dr. Juan A. del Regato, a pioneer in using radiation therapy to treat cancer, died on June 12 at Munson Medical Center in Traverse City, Mich. He was 90 and lived in a retirement home in Tampa, Fla. Dr. del Regato, who had been visiting his daughters in Michigan, died after surgery 
 Kamal Eddin Hussein, a crusty Egyptian army officer who helped to overthrow King Farouk of Egypt in 1952, became a Vice President of Egypt and then clashed with two Presidents, died on Saturday. He was 77. He had liver cancer, his family said, according to The Associated Press.     
 Leonard Price Stavisky of Queens, a longtime Democratic legislator in Albany and an outspoken advocate of state support for public education, died Saturday in a hospital in Queens. He was 73 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was complications from a cerebral hemorrhage, sai
 BERMAN-Alfred, M.D. FACS. 88 years of age, of Bayside, NY. Beloved husband of Bernice for 53 years. Father of Steven and Wendy Berman of Vermont; Michael and Rachel Berman, and Peter and Jean Berman of New York. He was a devoted family man who took pride in his grandchildren, Megan, Travis 
 BIERER-Frederick Bentley. Died June 21, 1999, at the age of 82, in New York City after a long illness. He was raised in Furth, Germany and joined The British Army in 1940, serving in the Pioneer, Commando, Tanks and Intelligence Corps. He emigrated to America in 1946, and married Sally Erla
 BLOOMBERG-Hal. Of Boynton Beach, Fla. Died June 17 at age 82. Beloved husband of Louise Austin and cherished father of Michael N. Bloomberg. Devoted brother of Leon and Miriam Bloomberg of Oakland, Ca. Dearest stepfather of Jonathan Austin (Mary Anne Mazzocco) and Benjamin Austin. Hal was a
 BROOKNER-Abraham, Dr. Died June 20, 1999 at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Blanche, adored father of Joan and Peter and grandfather of Adam. Until his retirement, he was a dedicated and compassionate physician and always a gentleman. Graveside services 1:30pm Tuesday at Cedar Park Ceme
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 GIBSON-George W. 74, of Surfside Beach, SC, died Sunday in SC. Predeceased by his wife Mary Stroock Gibson; survived by sons, daughters and sisters. Memorials may be made to the American Lung Association of SC, PO Box 488, Florence, SC 29501.       
 GLICKMAN-Louis J. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the passing of a distinguished philanthropist and communal leader, who was a YU Guardian and AECOM Founder. An honorary YU alumnus and a second generation University Trustee, he had chaired the Board of T
 HAMBURG-Helen G. We extend our sincerest condolences to the family of Donald Hamburg on the loss of his mother and Jan's mother-in-law, loved by them and so many. Vera Stern, President Romie Shapiro, Co-Chair, Executive Committee       
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEVAVY-Zvi. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of a cherished and devoted friend Zvi Levavy. His committment and dedication, through the generosity of the Morris J. & Betty Kaplun Foundation, established and improved the Kaplun Building of Physics at Tel Aviv Uni
 LOWRY-Donald I. Died June 17, 1999, in Camden, ME, residing in Cincinatti for many years before retiring as a Senior Vice President for Proctor & Gamble, and moving to Naples, FL. He leaves his wife, Barbara, two sons, Peter H., and Samuel A., three daughters, Pamela L., of Boston, MA, Sara
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MULLE-Joseph S., M.D. F.A.C.S. On June 20, 1999 of Jamaica Estates, NY. Born in Greenpoint on November 24, 1911. Educated at Boys High, he graduated from St. John's University in 1933. He received his medical degree from St. Louis University in 1937, specializing in orthopedic surgery. He s
 PAGLIARO-Frank J. Of Mt. Kisco on June 19, at 99, died at home after a short illness. He was a leader of the New York construction industry for more than 50 years. A resident of Mt. Kisco, he was a longtime member of its Beautification Committee. He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the 
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 REHNS-Max. On June 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Lila. Devoted father of Michael and Alice. Cherished grandfather of Danny, Kenny, Scott, Heather, Jason and Brian. He will live on in our hearts forever. Services Wednesday, 10AM, from ''Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels'', Queens Blvd. a
 SACHS-Frederick L., M.D. Pulmonary Associates of New Haven wishes to express our deepest regret at the passing of our founder, mentor, teacher, physician and friend, Frederick L. Sachs, M.D. Our condolences are extended to his devoted wife, Ruth, and his dear daughters, Lori, Jennifer and A
 SCHENKMAN-Selwyn, Dr. We mourn the passing of the longtime president of our division, a devoted colleague, a caring friend and a gifted and innovative practitioner. Throughout his distinguished career, he was an ardent and eloquent advocate for the advancement of his profession. Our condole
 SCHONBERG-Joseph. Died on Father's Day. Beloved husband of Adele. Cherished father of Karen (David), Richard (Jean). Adored Poppy of Dina and Max. Greatly respected by his clients and loved by his many friends. He will live on in our hearts forever.       
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 WASSERMAN-Louis R., M.D. Age 88, Professor Emeritus of Hematology at Mount Sinai Hospital School of Medicine, of Sandy Hook, CT on June 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Julia Wasserman, devoted brother of Natalie W. Wolf. Services will be held at the convenience of the family. A celebration of 
 WELDON-Jeffrey. Loving son of Mort and Louise, beloved brother of Karen and brother-in-law of Dimitri. We shall miss him forever. Service June 23 at 2pm at Ferncliff Chapel, Secor Rd., Hartsdale, NY       
 WYNNE-Patrick L. Senior partner in Wynne, Wynne, Seedorf & Scheld, passed away on June 20, 1999. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Wynne (nee Reed), and six children: Maureen Zutz of Potomac, MD, Patrick J. Wynne, Esq. of Rockville Centre, NY, Eileen Kirk of Newtown, CT, Brian Wynne of Co
 Dr. Louis Robert Wasserman, an authority on the diagnosis and treatment of blood diseases and the founder of one of the nation's foremost hematology training programs, died on Monday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 88 and lived in Sandy Hook, Conn. Dr. Wasserman's associa
 Frederick L. Sachs, a physician, hospital administrator and educator long associated with Yale University and Yale-New Haven Hospital, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 61. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Ruth. Dr. Sachs, a pulmonologist, o
 Mario Soldati, a prolific Italian writer and film director, died on Saturday at his home in Tellaro, near La Spezia. He was 92. Although Mr. Soldati became a household name in Italy as the director of 29 films from 1931 to 1960, writing was thought to be his stronger talent.        
 Neil Jacobson, a psychology professor at the University of Washington who was known for his research on domestic violence, marital therapy and depression, died on June 2 in his hotel room in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 50 and lived in Seattle. Dr. Jacobson died after a heart attack, said
 BERMAN-Alfred, M.D. FACS. 88 years of age, of Bayside, NY. Beloved husband of Bernice for 53 years. Father of Steven and Wendy Berman of Vermont; Michael and Rachel Berman, and Peter and Jean Berman of New York. He was a devoted family man who took pride in his grandchildren, Megan, Travis 
 BIERER-Frederick Bentley. Died June 21, 1999, at the age of 82, in New York City after a long illness. He was raised in Furth, Germany and joined The British Army in 1940, serving in the Pioneer, Commando, Tanks and Intelligence Corps. He emigrated to America in 1946, and married Sally Erla
 CHRISTENSEN-Harold. Age 83, of Boynton Beach, FL, on June 17, 1999. He resided in Bronxville, NY for many years before retiring as Secretary and Director of Personnel for IBM World Trade Corporation in 1972. Predeceased by his wife, Gladys, and daughter, Lorna Black, he is survived by his d
 COUGHLIN-Thomas F. On June 20, 1999. The Board of Directors, administration, staff and residents of Isabella Geriatric Center in New York deeply mourn the passing of Thomas F. Coughlin, our former President and Chief Executive Officer from 1977 to 1992. His contributions to Isabella will be
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 FRANK-George Woodrow. 82 years of age, of Princeton, NJ. Beloved husband of Irma R. Devoted father of George, Jr., (Woody) and Susan F. Daum. Dear grandfather of George W. Frank, III (Tripp), Andrew Frank, Nicholas Daum, Matthew Daum and great-grandfather of George W. Frank, IV (Drew). He w
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEAF-Jules. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Jules Leaf. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his children and other members of his family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President       
 LEVAVY-Zvi. On June 20, 1999. Advisor, teacher, community leader and visionary. Happily and harmoniously married to the late Berenice (Bardin) for over 63 years. Adored and adoring brother of Sarah Weiss, beloved father of Bardin (and Sue-Ellen), doting grandfather of Raphael and Sara Beth.
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MULLE-Joseph S., M.D. F.A.C.S. On June 20, 1999 of Jamaica Estates, NY. Born in Greenpoint on November 24, 1911. Educated at Boys High, he graduated from St. John's University in 1933. He received his medical degree from St. Louis University in 1937, specializing in orthopedic surgery. He s
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STAVISKY-Leonard P. Beloved husband of Toby. Devoted father of Evan. Services Wednesday, 1:45 PM, ''Sinai Chapels'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, New York. STAVISKY-Leonard P. The City College of New York mourns the passing of New York State Senator Leonard P. Sta
 WASSERMAN-Louis R., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our outstanding colleague. Dr. Wasserman served as the Director of Hematology for nearly 20 years and helped establish Mount Sinai as a leading center in this area. He was a wor
 Pietro Deiro Jr., a music publisher devoted to the expansion of the repertory for the accordion, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Deiro, who was known as Lee, played the accordion and, though he did not give concerts, had
 Frank J. Pagliaro, a concrete contractor whose projects included the Chrysler Building and the New York Athletic Club in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 99. Mr. Pagliaro provided concrete for the United Nations, Shea Stadium, the New York Coliseum, 
 Gaynor Jacobson, a former world director of the Hebrew Immigrant  Aid Society, or Hias, who helped thousands of Jews leave Eastern Europe for Israel and other countries in the West in the World War II period, died on June 6 at a hospital in Sun City West, Ariz. He was 87 and lived i
 Norman B. Hirsh, who supervised the development of the Apache attack helicopters that were used extensively in the Persian Gulf war in the 1990's and recently in Yugoslavia, died on June 8 at his home in Coto de Caza, Calif. He was 64 years old. He died of a heart attack, his wife, 
 BLACKWELL-William Leslie, Jr. 4/07/29-6/15/99. Professor of Russian History at NYU. He is survived by close friend Fiorence Wineapple, three children, Anne, Leslie, and Theodore, and four grandchildren. Services on 6/24 at 2PM St. Ann's Church, Brooklyn.       
 BLISS-Robert N. Beloved member of North Country Treetops community for over 60 years. Died peacefully at home on June 20th. He gave countless people inspiration and appreciation of the wilderness. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Robert Bliss Memorial Fund, Camp Treetops, P.
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 FERBER-Stanley. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their friend and member, and extend their sympathy to his family. Leonard Danon, President       
 FRANK-George W. The board and staff of Hospice Care Network express their profound sorrow upon the loss of their longtime supporter, mentor and friend. A pioneer in regional hospice care, Mr. Frank was a founding member and first president of Hospice Care of Long Island, which later became 
 GREENBLATT - Arnold. The Board of Trustees of Temple Hillel of Flatlands announces with great sorrow the passing of President Arnold Greenblatt. He will be sorely missed. He is survived by his wife Betty; his children Susan and Mark Miller and Ruth and Marty Cole; grandchildren Evan and Jas
 HENDERSON-David A., 76, of Applewood Estates, Freehold Township, NJ, on June 20, 1999. Dr. Henderson was a graduate of Greeley High School, Greeley, CO, Class of 1941; received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Arts degrees from the University of Colorado in 1946 and 1951, respectively,
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 HILLER-Ira, on June 23, 1999, at age 58. We deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend, after a heroic battle with cancer. Son of the late Edith and Morris Hiller, brother of the late Arnold Hiller, former partner of Yohalem, Gillman and Co. He will be sorely missed by all who knew 
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEAL-Jose Carlos on June 23, 1999 at age 79. Retired ship owner of Rio de Janiero and New York. Died peacefully from complications of a stroke. He is survived by his beloved wife Judi, his loving granddaughter Julia Santos, stepson Steven Fox and a daughter and two sons from Rio de Janiero.
 LEVAVY-Zvi. With heads bowed, we are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Zvi Levavy. President of the Morris J. and Betty Kaplun Foundation, Mr. Levavy was an ardent supporter of The Open University of Israel. Heartfelt condolences to his family. May his memory be for a blessing. Irv
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MERNS-Adrienne. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the untimely loss of Adrienne Merns, beloved daughter of Sy Syms, a generous supporter and cherished friend who shares with his family a deep devotion to Jewish causes. We extend our 
 PERSHING-John W. On June 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with vascular disease. Beloved husband of Sandra Sinclair Pershing. Devoted stepfather of Alyson Lloyd Taylor, and Robin M. Lloyd. Cherished grandfather of Hollis C. Taylor. A private investor in civilian life, he was a member of 
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SHAPIRO-Charles Katz, retired professor of English, June 18, age 73. Survived by his dear friend Mary Bonsignore. An informal memorial service will be held Sunday, June 27, 2PM at The Riverdale/Yonkers Society for Ethical Culture, 4450 Fieldston Road, corner Manhattan College Parkway, River
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 WASSERMAN-Louis R. The faculty members of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health profoundly mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Louis R. Wasserman. Dr. Wasserman was a true giant am
 WEISSMAN-Stuart. 6/24/98. His courage, strength and love is missed by his family and friends. Stuart will never be forgotten, his memory will remain in our hearts forever. Weissman/Priven Family       
 David Freeman Hawke, professor emeritus of American history at Lehman College of the City University of New York and author of several widely admired books about people and events in the American Revolution, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Madison, Conn. He was 75. The cause was
 James Ross Kennedy, a former vice chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, died on June 17 at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Kennedy joined Celanese, a maker of plastics and chemicals, in 1944 as an accountant in the plastics division. He became a vi
 Julius Tobias, a Manhattan painter and sculptor who was best known for the abstract, gallery-filling Minimalist environments he created in the 1970's, died on June 16 at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Tobias was born in Manhattan, dropped out of sc
 Dr. Louis K. Diamond, who developed a revolutionary transfusion method to save newborn babies with Rh disease, died on June 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 97. Dr. Diamond was a longtime professor at Harvard Medical School and associate chief of staff at Children's Hospital Me
 ALTMAN-Ralph. Died June 23rd, 90 years of age. Brother of David R. Altman; uncle of Rosalind Warshauer and Emily and Dara Altman; great uncle of Lionel and Samantha Warshauer and Asher Lennon. He spent his entire life helping others, especially his mother Yetta and his late sister Pearl. A 
 BLOOM-Seymour. Of Valley Stream, NY, died peacefully at home on June 22. He is survived by his loving wife Mildred and family. In his memory, donations may be made to Temple Gates of Zion, Valley Stream.       
 BUSTA-Charles J., 51, of New York, NY and Monkton, MD on June 21, 1999. Charles, known as CB was a graduate of Cathedral Latin High School, Class of 1966, and received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Dayton, Dayton, OH, and Master of Arts degree in Journalism from Northwe
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEAL-Jose Carlos. We mourn the passing of our cherished friend. We will miss his wisdom, his spirit, his warmth and his wordly charm. Marilyn and Jack Fields       
 LEWIS-Dallas, A. MD. Franklin Hospital Medical Center's Medical Staff record with profound sorrow the loss of Dallas A. Lewis, MD. A former President of the Medical Staff and current President of the hospital's Medical Board, Dr. Lewis was appointed Chief of Franklin's Division of General S
 LONG-Preston H. Died peacefully on Wednesday, June 23rd. Ambassador at large to the UN. Member of Finance Committee for the election of President Reagan. Former officer of J.O.B. Beloved brother of Gene Long. Brother-inlaw of Phyllis Long of New York City. Dear uncle of Betty Kelsey and Jac
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 MAUER-Irving, M.D., F.A.C.S. This notice is to advise of the untimely death of Dr. Mauer on June 9, 1999. He was a gifted, resourceful orthopedic surgeon. In lieu of an official notice from the Hospital for Joint Diseases where he trained and served, this is to alert his colleagues and frie
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 McNIVEN-Charles. The members of the Board of Trustees, Women's Committee, staff, alumni, and more than 6,000 members of the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club wish to extend their deep sympathy and condolences to wife, Mary, daughter, Patty, and other family members at the recent demise of Charles 
 O'BRIEN-John J. The New York Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing our dear friend and colleague, John O'Brien. Mr. O'Brien joined the Hospital in 1990 and served as Director of Admitting at the New York Weill Cornell Center. His warm personality, dedication and commitment
 PERSHING-Colonel John W. On June 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with vascular disease. Beloved husband of Sandra Sinclair Pershing. Devoted stepfather of Alyson Lloyd Taylor, and Robin M. Lloyd. Cherished grandfather of Hollis C. Taylor. A private investor in civilian life, he was a me
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 PROL-Julio. Foremost teacher of the Spanish classical guitar in New York, died at Lenox Hill Hosptal of a stroke on June 4. Professor Prol was born in La Coruna, Spain. He studied with Andres Segovia and many accomplished musicians of his time. He served in the U.S. Army in World War II. Be
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STAVISKY-Leonard P. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of New York State Senator Leonard P. Stavisky, distinguished 1945 graduate of City College, former faculty member and administrator at City College, Brooklyn College, Kingsborough Community College, and Queensboro
 LYGNOS-Peter N. Memorial Service of remembrance will be held by his wife Anna and his children on Sunday, June 27, 1999 at 10 AM, St. John the Theologian Cathedral, 353 E. Clinton Ave., Tenafly, NJ.       
 Robert G. Neumann, whose dismissal as the American Ambassador to Saudi Arabia in 1981 revealed fissures in President Reagan's first foreign policy team, died of cancer in Los Angeles last Friday. He was 83. Mr. Neumann's firing by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr.  -- and the
 Fred C. Trump, one of the last of New York City's major postwar builders, died yesterday at a hospital in Queens. He was 93 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Although Mr. Trump was stricken with Alzheimer's disease six years ago, he still retained his title of chairman of the bo
 George E. Keck, an industrial engineer who briefly headed United Airlines during some of the airline's most turbulent years, died in his sleep at his home in Milwaukie, Ore., a suburb of Portland, on Tuesday, The Associated Press reported. He was 87 years old. Mr. Keck joined the ai
 BLOOM-Samuel M. MD.. On June 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Zita. Loving father of Lloyd and Betty. Dear grandfather of Michael and Benjamin Berson and Henny Bloom. BLOOM-Samuel M., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing
 BURKE-Robert J.., of New Rochelle, died on June 24, 1999 in New York City. He was 56 years old. Robert was born to Francis J. and Georgina McGarry Burke on May 18, 1943 in Bronx, NY. Mr. Burke served in the US Navy as a Quarter Master aboard the USS Intrepid from 1961-1964. He was the Presi
 BUSTA-Charles J.., 51, of New York, NY and Monkton, MD on June 21, 1999. Charles, known as CB was a graduate of Cathedral Latin High School, Class of 1966, and received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Dayton, Dayton, OH, and Master of Arts degree in Journalism from Northw
 DALLAS-Lewis. It is with great sorrow that the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System notes the passing of Dallas Lewis, MD, who was Chief of the Division of General Surgery at Franklin Hosptial Medical Center and a long time member of the hospital's medical staff. Dr. Lewis embodied 
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 JANOWITZ-Saul. On June 24, 1999 in Troy, NY, formerly of Belle Harbor, NY. Husband of Miriam Linick Janowitz. Father of Mrs. Eugene (Sherry) Grenz of Delmar, NY and Sherman Janowitz of the Bronx. Brother of Arthur Janowitz of LI. Grandfather of four, he also leaves many nieces and nephews. 
 KUMMER-Howard, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He was Rabbi of Temple Ezrath Israel in Malden, MA for many years until his death. He was President of the National Association of Jewish Chaplains at the time of his death. We extend our heartfelt condolences
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LINDSAY-Derek. The Faculty and Staff of the Chemistry Department of the City College of New York deeply regret the loss of our long-time friend and colleague, Professor Derek Lindsay. Professor Lindsay, an outstanding experimental chemist and a recognized authority in the area of electron s
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PERSHING-Colonel John W.. On June 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with vascular disease. Beloved husband of Sandra Sinclair Pershing. Devoted stepfather of Alyson Lloyd Taylor, and Robin M. Lloyd. Cherished grandfather of Hollis C. Taylor. A private investor in civilian life, he was a m
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TRUMP-Fred C.. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Er
 LYGNOS-Peter N.. Memorial Service of remembrance will be held by his wife Anna and his children on Sunday, June 27, 1999 at 10 AM, St. John the Theologian Cathedral, 353 E. Clinton Ave., Tenafly, NJ.       
 Joe Redington, who died Thursday at the age of 82 at his homestead in Knik, Alaska, near Anchorage, did not get to mush until he was in his late 30's, but when he did, he realized something that no one else had thought of: if you organize a 1,100-mile dog sled race, even if you don't have a
 BEHRENS-Daniel J.. On June 2, 1999 of cancer, just short of his 82nd birthday. W.W. II Army veteran (Staff Sgt.). Beloved son of the late Theresa Behrens and Solomon B. Behrens. Cherished brother of Stanley (Jessica, Philip, Deb) Behrens and Evelyn (Nat) Rosenfeld. Loving uncle and great-un
 BIGGS-Walter J.. 78, on June 9, 1999. Of respiratory failure, after a brief illness. Founder of hospital publications and publisher of medical aspects of human sexuality and hospital medicine. Served honorably as a United State Naval Officer during World War II, graduate of St. John's Unive
 BLACHMAN-Arthur, Ph.D.. Of Briarcliff Manor, NY, died June 25 of cancer at the age of 73. Arthur was the husband of Lucy and father to three sons Eric, Neil and Jeremy. He was also the beloved grandfather of five: Natan, Renana, Shaul and Meier of Ber Sheva, Israel; and Abigail of Houston, 
 BOIKO-Bernard., bridge life master died June 20th after a 10 year battle with prostate cancer in San Diego, Ca. He was 69. Boiko was a history teacher at Francis Lewis High School in Fresh Meadows, NY and was Chairman of the History Department at the Francis Parker School in San Diego. Boik
 BONOMO-Victor A.. Age 100, of Bal Harbour, FL, formerly of NY. Beloved husband of Zephra (Sophie) Narins Bonomo. Cherished father of Tico Bonomo of Great Falls, VA. Adored grandfather of four and great-grandfather of five. He was the owner of Bonomo Turkish Taffy. Services and interment Mon
 BUSTA-Charles J.., 51, of New York, NY and Monkton, MD on June 21, 1999. Charles, known as CB was a graduate of Cathedral Latin High School, Class of 1966; received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Dayton, Dayton, OH, and Master of Arts degree in Journalism from Northweste
 DESSER-Maxwell. A gentleman by nature, so gracious even in receipt of things which were so plainly his due. Lt., USN Signal Corps during WWII. An artist by trade and affection, a National Academician in the National Academy of Design and a Dolphin Fellow and officer of the American Watercol
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 EVANS-James Lloyd. Loving father of James L., Jr., John, Kevin, and Michael, loving brother of Margaret Brower, and Joseph Evans. He was a former long-time employee of The New York Times from 1985 to 1992. Commander, American Legion and Korean War veteran. EVANS-James Lloyd. The New
 FONDARAS-Anastassios. Died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital on June 24, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife Elizabeth; two daughters Kristina Fondaras Lamont of London and Antonia Fondaras of Washington D.C.; two sisters Anna Safilios and Fofi Trezos both of Athens; a niece Dina Safilios Ro
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KIMMEL-Joseph. On June 24, 1999, of a brain tumor. Beloved and proud husband of Gloria. Worshipped and cherished father of Tracey, Sharon and son-in-law Bert. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Jan. His charm, wit and personality will be sorely missed. Private services. Contributions can be 
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEWIS-Dallas, M.D.. It is with great sorrow that the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System notes the passing of Dallas Lewis, M.D., who was Chief of the Division of General Surgery at Franklin Hosptial Medical Center and a long time member of the hospital's medical staff. Dr. Lewis em
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 MEAD-Donald E.. On June 14, 1999. Born in Peking 1921, he attended schools in Shanghai and most happily, the Kuling American School in China. After graduating from Cornell and war-time service in the Navy, he spent the next thirty plus years in the Far East, primarily Manila, where he repre
 MICHAELS-Tony. June 25, 1999, After complications of coronary artery disease. Beloved friend, we remember him for his generosity, humor, dignity, spirit and kindness. In lieu of flowers, please send donations in memoriam to Save the Childrens Fund. A private service will be held at a later 
 PERSHING-Colonel John W.. On June 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with vascular disease. Beloved husband of Sandra Sinclair Pershing. Devoted stepfather of Alyson Lloyd Taylor, and Robin M. Lloyd. Cherished grandfather of Hollis C. Taylor. A private investor in civilian life, he was a m
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SCHWARTZ-Gerald (Jerry)., 94, a long-time resident of Miami Beach, moving from Great Neck, NY. Passed away at home on June 23, 1999. Widower of Sarah, he is survived by children Dr. Robert Schwartz, Pittsfield, MA; Marcia (Dr. Jason) Zellner, Coconut Grove, FL; Linda (Joel) Negrin, Mamarone
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TRUMP-Fred C.. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Er
 Thomas (Tommy) Ivan, the diminutive and dapper coach and general manager who helped turn around two franchises in the National Hockey League's six-team era, died yesterday at the age of 88. Ivan, who had been suffering from a kidney ailment, died at Lake Forest Hospital in suburban 
 Anastassios Fondaras, who went from a career in the Royal Greek Navy and later in Greece's private shipping industry to international investment banking, died on Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York. He was 81. The cause of death was complications from a fall, his 
 George Papadopoulos, who headed a military dictatorship that dominated Greece in the late 1960's and early 1970's and which was widely reported to have tortured and imprisoned opponents of its rule, died yesterday in a hospital in Athens. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, Age
 Hugh Alton Carter Sr., a former Georgia state legislator and businessman who had a central role in the campaigns of his first cousin Jimmy Carter and turned his store into a center of Jimmy Carter lore, died Thursday at a hospital in Americus, Ga. He was 78 and lived in nearby Plains.      
 Marion Motley, one of the National Football League's first black players of the modern era and one of its best fullbacks ever, died yesterday in Cleveland. He was 79. Motley, a star with the Cleveland Browns from 1946 to 1953 and a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, had been s
 BEHRENS-Daniel J. On June 2, 1999 of cancer, just short of his 82nd birthday. W.W. II Army veteran (Staff Sgt.). Beloved son of the late Theresa Behrens and Solomon B. Behrens. Cherished brother of Stanley (Jessica), Philip (Deb) Behrens and Evelyn (Nat) Rosenfeld. Loving uncle and great-un
 BIGGS-Walter J. 78, on June 9, 1999. Of respiratory failure, after a brief illness. Founder of Hospital Publications and publisher of Medical Aspects of Human Sexuality and Hospital Medicine. Served honorably as a United State Naval Officer during World War II, graduate of St. John's Univer
 DELAFIELD-Maturin Livingston, Jr. Age 42 on June 25, 1999, in Ramona, CA. Survived by his mother Barbara Reed Delafield and his father Maturin Livingston Delafield Sr., both of Princeton, NJ.       
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 FONDARAS-Anastassios. Died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital on June 24, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife Elizabeth; two daughters Kristina Fondaras Lamont of London and Antonia Fondaras of Washington D.C.; two sisters Anna Safilios and Fofi Trezos both of Athens; a niece Dina Safilios Ro
 GLASSMAN-Leon. On Friday, June 18, 1999. Of Manhattan, NY, formerly of Bronx, NY. Beloved husband of the late Irene (nee Starr). Caring brother of Dr. Samuel Glassman. Loving uncle to Jeffrey Lavikoff, Nancy LavikoffBurr, Janice Glassman-Curnick and Joan Glassman-Kaye. He served in the Army
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KRAMER-David. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEAL-Jose Carlos on June 23, 1999 at age 79. Retired ship owner of Rio de Janiero and New York. Died peacefully from complications of a stroke. He is survived by his beloved wife Judi, his loving granddaughter Julia Santos, stepson Steven Fox and a daughter and two sons from Rio de Janiero.
 LEIDERMAN-Nathaniel H., Age 77, died peacefully June 25, 1999. Devoted husband of Lila for 52 years. Beloved father of Linda and Chaim Fertig, Judi and Aaron Rosenfeld and Mindy Smith and Ira Leiderman. Loved dearly by grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Decorated combat medic in five WW
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PEARL-Leon. Son of Benzion and Helen Pearl. Husband of Roslyn for 46 years; father of Janet, Barry, Kenneth and Carl; grandfather of Seth and Stephen; Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Hofstra University, died on June 26, at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, NY. He was 77. Dr. Pearl was bor
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 TRUMP-Fred C. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eri
 WHEELWRIGHT-Joseph Balch, M.D. 93, of Kentfield, CA. Pioneer of Jungian analysis. Survived by his wife Jane Hollister Wheelwright, also 93; his brother George W. Wheelwright, III of Tiburon, CA; his two children Lynda Wheelwright Schmidt of Brooklin, ME, and John Hollister Wheelwright of Po
 Peter Abeles, a Hungarian who fled to Australia after World War II and as a transport executive became one of his adopted country's most powerful business leaders, died on Friday at his home in Sydney. He was 75. The cause of death was cancer, said the Australian Consul General in N
 Shig Kariya, one of the founders of Mikasa Inc., the big tableware company, died on Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, his son Scott said. Mr. Kariya was born in 1915, when the Japanese Government was busily gearing up for
 Angelo Bertelli, the first of Notre Dame's seven Heisman Trophy winners and its first T-formation quarterback, died Saturday at his home in Clifton, N.J. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer, his son Michael said. When Bertelli entered Notre Dame in 1940, he was 6 feet 1 in
 Jiri Pelikan, a leader of Communist Czechoslovakia's ''Prague Spring,'' the short-lived period of liberal reforms in 1968, died on Saturday in a hospital in Rome. He was 76. He lived in Rome, having received political asylum in Italy after the end of the Prague Spring when Soviet-le
 BENNET-John Reinhart Of Cambridge, MA, formerly of NYC, on June 26, 1999 after a brief illness in the 92nd year of his age. Husband of Silvia Strong Bennet. Father of Helena Prentice Bennet and David La Tourette Bennet. Services at the convenience of the family.       
 BLOOM-Samuel M., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Samuel M. Bloom, M.D., Associate Clinical Professor Emeritus in the Department of Otolaryngology
 CARPENTER-Malcolm B., M.D. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and his many former students mourn the passing of this great teacher, scientist and clinician. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Oscar B. Garfein, M.D., 
 COLEMAN-Joseph E., MD, PhD, 68, of Ridge Rd., Hamden, Ct., formerly of Orange, CT. died June 28, 1999 in the Yale University Health Service. Dr. Coleman is survived by his wife Phoebe Newman Coleman of Hamden, sons Michael Newman Coleman and Samuel Hopkins Coleman both of Bridgehampton, N.Y
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 ENGLEMAN-Joseph Of 101 Bickford Drive, Extension, Avon, Connecticut, died on June 27th, 1999. Devoted husband of sixty years of Claire (Scheib) Engleman. Beloved father of Carol and Michael Kligfeld of Woodbridge, CT, and Nancy and Stu Katz of Burlington, CT. Cherished grandfather of Dr. Je
 EVANS-Francis J., Reverend Monsignor. June 28, 1999. Pastor Emeritus of Our Lady of Grace Church, Howard Beach, N.Y. Beloved son of the late Aloysius and Mary Evans. Loving brother of Mary Virginia Donnelly and Betty Evans of Greenwich, Ct. Reposing Casey-Porrello Funeral Home, 100-18 159 A
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KAMMANN-Karl J., Jr., of Carlisle, MA, formerly of Manhattan, died June 27. Floral designer, former owner of Trepel's in Rockefeller Center. Husband of the late Edith E. (Tenney). Father of Edith E. McEvoy, Katherine M. Kelly, Elizabeth A. Murphy and Karl J. III. Brother of Richard W. Many 
 KELLMAN-Joseph A.G., Esq. Died in Los Angeles on June 24th, 1999. Mr. Kellman was born in New York City on December 7, 1906. He graduated DeWitt Clinton High School in Manhattan after attending New York University. He received his Bachelor of Law from St. John's University in 1928 and was a
 KLEIN-Frank Owner of Carnival Creations Inc. Passed away Sunday, June 27, 1999. At his home surrounded by his wife, children and grandchildren. Funeral services are to be held Tuesday, June 29, 1999 at Riverside Chapel, 1495 Broadway, Hewlett, N.Y. at 12:15PM.       
 KRAFT-Gilman, president and owner of Performing Arts magazine, died June 27 following a brief illness. Mr. Kraft founded the theater program magazine in 1966, when the Music Center opened. The publication serves the Orange County Performing Arts Center, the UCLA Center for the Performing Ar
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 LEAL-Jose Carlos on June 23, 1999 at age 79. Retired ship owner of Rio de Janiero and New York. Died peacefully from complications of a stroke. He is survived by his beloved wife Judi, his loving granddaughter Julia Santos, stepson Steven Fox and a daughter and two sons from Rio de Janiero.
 LERNER-Sylvia Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing the beloved mother of our colleague, Rabbi Yaakov Lerner. We extend our heartfelt condolences to him to the entire bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard J. Wolf, Pres.       
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 ROBINSON-Cedric Louis Born Hartford, CT. December 21, 1915. Died Windsor, Connecticut, June 27, 1999. Dealer in rare books and historical documents. In 1946 he established Cedric L. Robinson, Booksellers and was later joined in the business by his son, William. He was an early member of the
 SITT-Jack The Yeshivah of Flatbush deeply mourns the passing of Jack Sitt, beloved brother of Honorary Trustee Eddie Sitt and Joyce Sitt and father of Board of Director Member Joseph Sitt, and Isaac Sitt and Celia Sutton. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire Sitt family. May
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SOIFER-Frank Age 94, of North Miami Beach, FL, formerly of New York, died June 28, 1999 at home. Loving husband of the late Ruth and the late Sunny. Cherished father of Janet Paul, and son - in - law, Robert. Devoted grandfather of Dr. Richard Paul, Debra Rappaport, and Stephanie Paul. Grea
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STEIN-Toby Robin Loving son of Stanley and Caroline. Adoring brother or Myra, Rusty and Cory. Services 12 noon, Wednesday, at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers donations to The Browning School Science Dept, 52 E. 62 St, New York, NY 10021; 212-838-6280. For s
 TRUMP-Fred C. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eri
 Catholicos Karekin I, the spiritual leader of Armenian Orthodox Christians worldwide, who faced the enormous task of reinvigorating his ancient church after the fall of Soviet Communism, died yesterday at his pontifical residence in Echmiadzin, near the Armenian capital, Yerevan. He was 66.
 Marshall Wayne, who displeased Adolf Hitler by winning gold and silver medals in the 1936 Berlin Olympics and who was later shot down over Italy fighting the Nazis, died June 16 in Hendersonville. He was 87. He died at Pardee Hospital, according to his sister, Dever Antes, after he 
 BLOOM-Samual M., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Bloom joined the staff in 1935 and for over 50 years distinguished himself as teacher and clinician in his chosen field of otolaryngology. Devoted to his patients whom 
 DILLON-George S. The volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes note with sorrow the passing of our former Chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime friend. Mr. Dillon, a volunteer for nearly 40 years, was a member of the Board from 1972 to 1990 and served as Chairman from 1980 to 1984
 DRAINE-Thomas P. Died June 20, 1999 in Portland, OR. Survived and missed by his wife, Dolly Rieck Draine of Portland, OR; his children, Bruce Draine of Princeton, NJ and Kathleen Draine of Sandy, OR; and his two grandchildren, David and Alexander Draine of Princeton, NJ. Buried June 22, 199
 DUNAWAY-Walter Hubert. Retired EVP of Jeffries Avlon, Inc., NY, NY, June 7, 1999 in Lumpkin, Georgia. A Navy Veteran of the Korean War, he was a survivor of the USS Cochino which went down in the North Sea in 1949. Survived by wife Colleen of Lumpkin, GA (formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY)
 FINK-Harry L., 91. Died on June 27 in Sarasota, FL. Born in New Bedford, MA, educated in NYC. Worked for Plymouth Shops for forty years. Survived by loving wife, Helen, devoted son and his wife, Matthew and Ellanor, adored grandchildren, Nina, Owen, Emily, 3 sisters and 2 brothers. Memorial
 GITLOW-Beatrice. Beloved wife of Abe Gitlow, who was the dean and guiding spirit of the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance (later the Stern School of Business). Bea was an invaluable assistant to Abe and a partner in all aspects of his life. The University mourns her death and shares 
 GREENE-Barnett A., M.D. Age 91, beloved and loving husband for 66 years of Lee, died on June 28, 1999 at University Hospital at Stony Brook following open heart surgery. Barney was the devoted father of Stuart, who predeceased him in 1997, and of William, whom he inspired into medicine; fat
 GROARKE-Mary. On June 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Thomas M. Dear mother of Kevin P. and his wife Susan, Ann, Desmond T. and his partner Thomas Earnor. Cherished grandmother of Joanna, Daniel and Ellen. Sister of Kathleen Quinn and sister-in-law of Stephen. The family will receive fri
 HERMAN-Morris. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Shya Herman on the loss of his father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres.       
 KRONFELD-Paul F. Died June 29, 1999. A retired New York City employee, he was 58 years old. He resided in Yonkers, New York and formerly in Brooklyn. Survived by brother, Arnold I. Kronfeld, nephew, Stephen, niece, Sherri, and good friends, Lee and Laura. His kind nature and sense of humor 
 KUNZ-Jim, 65. Of New Windsor, NY, retired banker with Bank of New York, died suddenly at his home on June 1, 1999. He was born November 4, 1933, in Mount Kisco, New York, to Nancy Kunz and Edward Andrews. Jim served in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War in the Military Police, K-9 Sec
 MANDEL-Howard. On June 7. Painter, sculptor, theater designer. Beloved partner for 40 years of Ed Graham, brother of Joseph, uncle of Lewis. Cherished cousin of Sylvan Mandel. Friend & inspiration to many. Mr. Mandel served in the Second World War, rose to the rank of Major and was awarded 
 McEWEN-Dolores. The League Treatment Center's Board, staff and children send our deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Mark McEwen and his family, on the loss of his mother. Our prayers are with you.       
 PERSHING-John Warren III, Colonel. The Board of Governors and members of The Leash in NY note with profound sadness the passing of their fellow clubman, Colonel John Warren Pershing III. United States Army Reserve Retired on June 23, 1999. A former Governor of The Leash, Jack was an outstan
 PHILLIPS-Robert Murr. Of Stockbridge, MA, formerly of Cincinnati, OH., and New York, N.Y., on June 29, 1999. Cherished husband of Sue Ochs Phillips. Loving & nurturing father of Scott and Debbie and Pepper & Valerie; special person in the lives of Larry and Lynn, Jacki & Jan, and Carol and 
 PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 an
 RAFTERY-John V. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died in North Beach, NJ on June 12, 1999. Professor Emeritus of English at Pace University. A dedicated teacher and good friend to many, Professor Raftery inspired and touched many people with his love of life, knowledge and the English language. A 
 RATHKOPF-Julius. The partners of Herrick, Feinstein LLP extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to Stephen Rathkopf, our dear colleague and treasured friend, on the death of his father. Stephen, our heartfelt thoughts on your great loss are with you, your mother May, your sisters Ronn
 ROSENZWEIG - Gary. Sutton Place Synagogue extends sincere condolences to our devoted member William Rosenzweig on the loss of his beloved brother. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 SITT-Jack. The partners and staff of Grant Thornton LLP extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Sitt family. Jack was a special person, thoughtful, generous and kind to everyone. He had a strong love and commitment to his family and friends. A true gentleman, his presence will be mis
 SMILES-Albert. On June 7, 1999. He was a businessman in real estate and general contracting. Devoted husband of Blanche. Beloved father of Lynn and Joan. Services were held Wednesday.       
 SOIFER-Frank. Age 94, of North Miami Beach, FL, formerly of New York, died June 28, 1999 at home. Loving husband of the late Ruth and the late Sunny. Cherished father of Janet Paul, and son - in - law, Robert. Devoted grandfather of Dr. Richard Paul, Debra Rappaport, and Stephanie Paul. Gre
 SONNENREICH-Joseph I. Joe's life enriched us all by virtue of his goodness, his integrity, his wisdom, and his pride in family achievements. We shall ''Sing his Praise'' as we honor him, in loving remembrance of his life, at services today Thursday, June 10, at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street a
 STEIN-Max. In his 97th year. Husband of the late Florence, father of Dr. Harry L. Stein, his wife Sandy, and Irene Friedman, her husband, George. Grandfather of Dr. Laura, Dr. Peter, and wife, Susan, Dr. Andrew, Nancy and husband, David, Jennifer, Bruce, Richard, and Susan. Great grandfathe
 TRUMP-Fred C. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to Donald Trump on the passing of his beloved father, Fred. We also would like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire Trump family. May his memory be a blessing. The Principals of Newmark & 
 Vere C. Bird, a child of the slums and a Salvation Army drummer who carried the Caribbean island of Antigua to independence and then sired the family dynasty that has led and dominated the country ever since, died on Monday in the capital, St. Johns. He was 89. At his death after a 
