 Edward S. Behr, a former war correspondent who covered conflicts around the world for nearly three decades and who wrote books about notable and sometimes notorious figures in 20th-century history, died Saturday in Paris, where he lived. He was 81. The death was confirmed by Christo
 Jean-Claude Brialy, a dashing leading man of the French New Wave films of the 1960s and '70s, died Wednesday in Paris. He was 74. His death, of cancer, was confirmed by the president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, who praised his ''finesse and his light spirit.'' The former president, 
 BECK--James H. The Board of Directors, officers, and members of ArtWatch International, Inc., are greatly saddened by the passing of our founder and president, Professor James H. Beck, whose dedication to artists and their work, and whose perseverance in preserving the world's great works o
 BRANDT--Jeffrey L., Esq., 52, of Ridgefield, CT. Patent attourney and Philadelphia native. Survived by his wife, Dyane (nee MacDaniel), parents Melvin Brandt and Annette Nathanson, a son Carson C.K. Fincham and wife Magdalena and two grandchildren Adeline and Carson Caden, two brothers Rand
 COTTON--Anthony D., of Bethpage, NY on May 30th, 2007. Twenty-four year member (1972-1996) of the Bethpage School Board. Beloved husband of Lorraine. Loving father and father-in-law of Joseph and Liz Cotton and Christine Cotton. Proud grandfather of Justin, Steven and John. Also survived by
 DUSHKIN--David, 70, of Guilford, Connecticut, died on May 28th, 2007. He was born in Evanston, IL, on June 7th, 1936 and grew up in the neighboring town of Winnetka. His family later moved to Weston, Vermont where his parents founded the Kinhaven Music School. He was educated at the Cambrid
 EDMONDSON--Bryan, 82, died on May 4, in Summit, NJ. A graduate of Rutgers. Survived by his wife Susan Eiffe.       
 GOLDBERG--Elliott ''Ski'', of Fort Lee, NJ, 86, died at home on May 30. Loving, supportive and deeply dedicated to his late wife Shirley, his children Sandra, Jeffrey (deceased), Neil, and Howard; his son-in-law Paul, daughterin-law Kara; his grandchildren John, Brian and Nathan; his sister
 GRASS--Louise. The Board of Trustees and staff of the National Museum of American Jewish History offer sincere condolences to our esteemed board member, Alex Grass, and his family on the loss of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother. George M. Ross, Ronald Rubin, Co-chairs, Board of Tr
 GREW--Henry Sturgis, of New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida, died suddenly on May 25th, 2007 in Florida. He had lived in Boston and Newport, Rhode Island. He is survived by a sister, Selina Grew Rossiter of Lincoln, Massachusetts, and two brothers, Joseph Clark Grew of Boston and Rob
 KUTSCHER--Austin H., D.D.S., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry (in Psychiatry) within the Section of Hospital Dentistry, passed away on May 30, 2007. Dr. Kutscher received his B.A. in 1945 from New York University and the D.D.S. in 1946 from Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surge
 NEUWIRTH--Richard. Testrite Instrument Co., Inc., mourns the loss of Richard Neuwirth. Testrite was founded by Richard's father, Herman Neuwirth in 1919. Everyone at Testrite knew Dick to be a kind and caring individual. Dick is survived by his wife Eileen, daughter Shelby Richardson, son-i
 SHAPIRO--Howard I. Devoted husband of Dorothy, his wife of over 53 years, father of Jay, Lawrence, Gail, and Daniel, grandfather to Rachel, Sarah, Brian, Adam, David, Derek, Benjamin, and Jayme passed away peacefully on the morning of Thursday, May 31, 2007, surrounded by his loving family.
 UBELL--Earl. The Staff of PARADE Magazine mourns the loss of longtime friend and colleague, Earl Ubell, author, journalist, and PARADE Health Editor from 1982 to 1998. During his tenure at PARADE, Ubell was often ahead of the news, covering issues such as depression in children, obesity, ge
 WEISS--Dr. G. Woldemar, 95, of Stuart, FL, died May 29. He was born in Canada. A Memorial Service and inurnment will be at a later date on Chebeaague Island, ME. Services by Aycock Funeral Home. Visit www.mem.com       
 BENARIO--Ernest H. In memory of my husband who gave his all to me and our two sons, Peter and Jeffrey, with a love which will never die. His loss on June 1, 2006 will be with us forever.       
 William Meredith, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet who used the rigorous constraints of meter and rhyme to subdue some of the most uncontrollable aspects of the human condition -- fear, loneliness, destiny, mortality -- died Wednesday in New London, Conn. He was 88 and had homes in Uncasville,
 Huang Ju, a Politburo member who rose out of Shanghai's political elite to become one of the most powerful leaders in China, died Saturday morning after a long illness, state news media reported. Mr. Huang was 68. Mr. Huang's health, as well as his political fate, had been the subje
 Mark Harris, who took readers on a literary journey through the life of a mythical baseball player in four well-received novels, including ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' which became the basis of a 1973 movie, died Wednesday. He was 84 and lived in Goleta, Calif. His death, at a hospital
 BAGATELLE--Warren D. Devoted husband of Hedy, his wife of over 44 years; father of David, Tracy and Adrien; grandfather to Olivia, Molly, Emma and Alexander passed away peacefully the morning of Thursday, May 31, 2007. Warren was a wellknown investment banker and partner at Loeb Partners Co
 GEMSON--Donald H., M.D., Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Dr. Donald H. Gemson. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi Da
 GREW--Henry Sturgis, of New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida, died suddenly on May 25th, 2007 in Florida. He had lived in Boston and Newport, Rhode Island. He is survived by a sister, Selina Grew Rossiter of Lincoln, Massachusetts, and two brothers, Joseph Clark Grew of Boston and Rob
 HANAUER--Bernard E., died peacefully with his family around him after a brief illness, May 30, 2007 at age 99. Beloved husband of Lilo (nee Growald) for 53 years. He will be sadly missed by daughters Elaine Hanauer Ravich and Linda Hanauer, son-in-law William Ravich and granddaughters Madel
 LORENZINI--Bruno, formerly of NYC on May 28, 2007 at age 97. Devoted husband of the late Edith; survived by sons Richard and Daniel. A constant creative individual, Bruno filled the lives of his family with imaginative and inspiring works of art. A memorial gathering is planned at a later d
 SHERER--Leslie, The Independent Suwalk & Vicinity Benevolent Association mourns the passing of our Honorary President and longtime leader, Leslie Sherer. Born in Suwalki, Poland, Mr. Sherer was active in the Association from his arrival in the United States in the 1930's and served as its P
 Wallace Seawell, a celebrity photographer whose West Hollywood home was for decades one of the country's most productive glamour factories, turning out thousands of portraits of movie stars, singers, presidents, kings and Gabor sisters (all three), died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 90.
 Warren M. Anderson, a longtime Republican leader in the New York State Senate who helped to bail New York City out of its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s, died yesterday at Wilson Regional Medical Center in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Dickinson. The cause of death was h
 ADAMS--D. Nelson, of Barneveld, NY and New York City died peacefully May 31, 2007 at Partridge Hill, his beloved Barneveld home. He was 97. He was a graduate of the Buckley School, Hotchkiss School, Yale University where he was a member of the Whiffenpoofs, and Harvard Law School where he w
 BAGATELLE--Warren. We are heartbroken at the loss of our dear friend Warren and send our love and condolences to Hedy and the entire family. Leslie and Charles Roden $(6$)BAGATELLE--Warren D. Devoted husband of Hedy, his wife of over 44 years; father of David, Tracy and Adrien; gran
 CHAMBERS--Bruce William, Ph.D., nationally recognized historian of 19th and 20th century American art died Saturday, May 26 at the age of 65, after a long illness. A memorial service will be held at Trinity Episcopal Church on the Green in New Haven, Connecticut at 11:00 am on Saturday, Jun
 CURRY--Anthony Xavier, 67, of Charlotte, NC, died peacefully Wednesday, May 30, 2007. He was born October 31, 1939, in Brooklyn, NY. Mr. Curry was a Consultant with ADP and was the President and Founder of Buttonwood Business Systems, which he led for ten years. A longtime resident of Long 
 GEMSON--Donald H., M.D., MPH, known for his contributions to workplace health promotion and disease prevention, was a friend and colleague. We offer our condolences to his wife, Lesley, his children and family. Richard Mayeux, Michael Shelanski, and the Taub Institute Faculty. $(6$)
 GREW--Henry Sturgis, of New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida, died suddenly on May 25th, 2007 in Florida. He had lived in Boston and Newport, Rhode Island. He is survived by a sister, Selina Grew Rossiter of Lincoln, Massachusetts, and two brothers, Joseph Clark Grew of Boston and Rob
 HASTINGS--Baird, 88. Died May 16, 2007; conductor, music educator and writer; predeceased by Lily, his wife and soul mate of 51 years; degrees from Harvard, Queens College and Sussex College; Mozart Festival Orchestra founder and conductor; faculty Trinity College and Juilliard; wrote many 
 HOCHBERG--Marvin. SAR Academy mourns the loss of its longtime trustee and advocate for teachers and families. We owe much of our success to him. He will always be remembered. The SAR Family       
 KANE--Lester, died peacefully at age 84 on May 31, leaving his devoted wife of 61 years, Libby, and children Nancy, Robert, Richard and Claudia, sons-in-law Michael and Ross, daughter-in-law Susan, and four grandchildren, Micah, Logan, Diego and Alicia. He was a World War II veteran who ser
 LEVINE--Sumner N., Professor Emeritus at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on March 20, 2007. A gentleman and a scholar, he is survived by his wife Caroline Gassner Levine, a daughter Professor Joanne Karger, and a grandson Raphael. His memory and legacy shall remain.   
 LORDI--William J. The Board of Directors, The Shareholders and The Staff of 49 East 86th Street, Inc. would like to extend our deepest condolences to Bill's wife, Susan, and his son, Bill, for their loss. Bill was our former President for many years. We shall miss him. The Board of Director
 MARCH--Aaron. The Fire Island Synagogue mourns the passing of Aaron March, beloved father of Trustee Susan March. Aaron's kindness, gentleness and wisdom endeared him to all. Our deepest condolences to Susan, Lou, Zack and Emma. Fire Island Synagogue Shaul Magid, Rabbi. Harry Trattner, Cant
 MEREDITH--William. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt.       
 MIYAJI--Professor Hiroshi, 82, died on Thursday, May 24, 2007 in Burlington, Vermont. He will be fondly remembered as a generous, wise colleague of Middlebury College, and a loving and caring husband and father. He is survived by his wife, Sumiko and daughter Anna. The family would apprecia
 RIKLAN--Dr. Manuel (Ricky), of Yonkers, NY, formerly Director of Psychology Department at St. Barnabas Hospital, Bronx, NY, passed away May 26, 2007 at age 80. He was the loving husband of wife, Gloria and the father of three children, Joan Simon, Debra Vekstein and David Riklan, and had th
 SHAPIRO--Howard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Howard Shapiro, whose deep commitment and generosity to our Long Island Campaign has impacted millions of lives. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Howard's wife, Dorothy, to 
 SHERER--Leslie, The Independent Suwalk & Vicinity Benevolent Association mourns the passing of our Honorary President and longtime leader, Leslie Sherer. Born in Suwalki, Poland, Mr. Sherer was active in the Association from his arrival in the United States in the 1930's and served as its P
 STADELMAN--Egon, P. A native of Berlin, Germany, adored husband of Marian (nee Stern) passed away peacefully in his home in Riverdale at age 96 on May 27, 2007 after suffering a stroke four and a half years ago. He was the son of Ferdinand and Margarete Stadelman. His father died in WWI. Hi
 SULLIVAN--Warren Jr. A publishing executive instrumental in establishing overseas markets for American books, died in Englewood, New Jersey, on May 23rd. He was 85 years old. A 1944 graduate of Dartmouth College, Sullivan served with the U.S. Navy during World War II. In 1946, he joined pub
 TYSON--Gene. May 29, 2007. Loving uncle of Joan Wilking of Massachusetts and great uncle of Barbara Evers and Peggy Kasmir. He was a very noted antiquaire of New York City for many years and will be missed by his many friends. Contributions in his memory should be made to the Humane Society
 UBELL--Earl. The Council for the Advancement of Science Writing (CASW) mourns the passing of its co-founder, Earl Ubell, a trailblazing science writer, who helped enrich for the millions privileged to have borne witness to his extraordinary work in print and broadcast their understanding of
 WALLER--Leslie, April 1, 1923-March 29, 2007. Author of more than 50 books, Leslie Waller passed away March 29th, 2007, in Rochester, NY, of natural causes attended by family. Waller is most well known for his New York Times best seller, The American, the novelization of Dog Day Afternoon, 
 WEINSTEIN--Albert A., of Stanfordville, New York, born June 4, 1930 in Brooklyn, died after a brief illness on May 27, 2007. Albee, engineer and inventor, is survived by his wife Roseanne, daughters Sharon, Laura, Mobee, Erin and Shauna Weinstein, granddaughters Amanda and Ariana Gonzalez, 
 WEINSTEIN--George W., M.D. 72. Formerly the Jane McDermott Shott Professor and Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, West Virginia University, Professor and Chair, Division of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio, Texas.
 McCORMICK--Dr. Charles G., a psychologist in private practice who taught at The New School for Social Research in New York City for 47 years, died May 11th, at age 93 at his home in Manhattan. He was born in New York City. He is survived by his wife, Ella Hansen McCormick of Manhattan; a so
 ROSENZWEIG--Maxwell of Coconut Creek, Florida, formerly of Bayside, New York, died peacefully on May 30, 2007. Beloved husband of Mae (Blatt) for over 60 years; father of Robin and Alex Schkrutz and Roy Rosenzweig and Deborah Kaplan; grandfather of David and Eric Schkrutz; brother of the la
 ZUCKERMAN--Mayer. Lovingly missed today on his birthday and every day. Evelyn       
 The Rev. Dr. John Macquarrie, an influential theologian whose graceful writing and sagacious melding of existentialist philosophy with orthodox Christian thought offered intellectually penetrating rationales for belief in God, died on May 28 in Oxford, England, where he lived. He was 87.   
 William F. Whitman Jr., a self-taught horticulturist who became renowned for collecting rare tropical fruits from around the world and popularizing them in the United States, died Wednesday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Whitman, who had suffered strokes and a heart
 Ed Yost, who fastened two propane tanks to what essentially looked like a lawn chair, attached that contraption to a 40-foot-diameter orange-striped nylon balloon and sailed above the Nebraska plain on a brisk fall day in 1960, becoming ''the father of modern hot-air ballooning,'' died May 
 KANE--Lester P. He was a giant in court reporting who single handedly transformed his profession. A devoted husband, father and grandfather, and art connoisseur bon vivant, meticulous in everything, he enriched the lives of all he touched. We mourn with his wife Libby, his children Nancy (A
 MILLER--Bernard,died June 1, 2007 at age 91. The owner and manager of Miller and Miller Real Estate Company in Manhattan. He was a comedy writer in the early days of television. A graduate of Harvard Law School, he was the writer of Captain Marvel Comics for Fawcett Publications. He donated
 RIAL--Guillermo, on June 1, 2007. Beloved husband of Maria, loving father of Cristina, Victoria, William and Carolina. Reposing at Horne Dannecker Funeral Home, 445 West 43rd St, NYC, Tuesday 2-9PM. Mass of Resurrection Wednesday, from St. Lawrence Church, 22 Hackensack Avenue, Weehawken, N
 SHULMAN--William J.''Velvl'' on June 3, 2007, 81. Sincerely loved and mourned by his family and friends. Husband of Dorothy, father of Judy and Bonnie. Brother of Label. Adored and adoring Zeide of Avi. Services at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills
 VERMUT--Julius. Born June 4, 1913, died June 1, 2007. Father of Avin, Robert and Ellen (Puhn). Grandfather of eight, great-grandfather of eleven. He will be dearly missed with everlasting love.       
 ROSENZWEIG--Maxwell of Coconut Creek, Florida, formerly of Bayside, New York, died peacefully on May 30, 2007. Beloved husband of Mae (Blatt) for over 60 years; father of Robin and Alex Schkrutz and Roy Rosenzweig and Deborah Kaplan; grandfather of David and Eric Schkrutz; brother of the la
 The Rev. David Kirk, an Eastern Orthodox priest who spent most of his adult life working with New York City's disenfranchised, died on May 23 at Emmaus House, the communal residence for the homeless that he founded in Harlem more than 40 years ago. He was 72. Father Kirk, who had be
 William Silver, whose 1975 application for ordination in the United Presbyterian Church -- the first by an openly gay man -- set off a continuing debate in the church over admitting homosexuals into the ministry, died on May 26. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was compli
 Bill France Jr., who took over Nascar from his father when it was a regional stock-car racing attraction and transformed it into a multibillion-dollar enterprise with a national presence, died Monday at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 74. The death was disclosed Monday during
 Clete Boyer, the sharp-fielding third baseman who played on Yankees teams that won five consecutive pennants in the 1960s, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 70. The cause was a stroke, said his brother Cloyd, a former major league pitcher. When the Yankees played the St. Lou
 DAVIES--Robert Roy, passed away June 1, 2007. Born July 4, 1925. Worked as Display Designer at B. Altman & Co. Leaves beloved partner, Philip H. Rubin. He will be missed.       
 EMERLING--Ernest Jr., New Haven, CT died on Tuesday May 29th after a lengthy illness. He was 69. Born in Jamacia, NY, he was the son on the late Ernest Emerling and the late Helen Louise Emerling of Great Neck, NY and Dayton, Ohio. A Senior Vice President, International at J. Walter Thompso
 EVANS--Charles. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished and longtime member Charles Evans. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David
 HOCHBERG--Marvin. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Riverdale Y note with sadness the passing of our former executive director, Marvin Hochberg. His dedication to Jewish communal service is an inspiration to the generation which follows him. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife B
 HOEXTER--Dr. Barton. We were all blessed by your humanity. The world is a better place because you were here. We will miss you everyday, for the rest of our lives. With love, Beverly & Marvin Morse & family $(6$)HOEXTER--Dr. Barton, of Great Neck and Manhattan, died peacefully on Ju
 HURWITZ--Alfred L. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Alfred L. Hurwitz, husband of Ruth B Hurwitz, Past National Treasurer. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, National President Morlie Levin, National Exe
 MARCH--Aaron. The Fire Island Synagogue mourns the passing of Aaron March, be loved father of Trustee Susan March. Aaron's kindness, gentleness and wisdom endeared him to all. Our deepest condolences to Susan, Lou, Zack and Emma. Fire Island Synagogue Shaul Magid, Rabbi. Harry Trattner, Can
 MILLER--Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bernard Miller, a renowned business leader and cherished friend of the New York Jewish community. Bernard, together with his brothers Saul and George Miller, was an esteemed leade
 PANG--Foo See. Beloved husband of Hon Ying Foo. Passed away peacefully at the age of 96 in his Brooklyn home on Sunday June 3, 2007. He was born in Hainan Island, China and proudly served 11 years in the US Merchant Marines of which part of his service was during WWII. He was a caring and g
 SULLIVAN--Warren Jr. A publishing executive in strumental in establishing overseas markets for American Books, died in Englewood, New Jersey, on May 23rd. He was 85 years old. A 1944 graduate of Dartmouth College, Sullivan served with the U.S. Navy during World War II. In 1946, he joined pu
 SUMMA--Craig J. The family sadly announces Craig's death on May 31st, 2007. He was born in New Britain, CT on May 10th 1962 to Kenneth and Lorraine Summa. A longtime resident of NYC he recently lived in Long Branch, NJ and Bucks County, PA. His energy, passion, and humor will be greatly mis
 TALBOT--William F., playwright and former Editor-inChief for 52 years, of Samuel French, Inc. died May 22. A graduate of University of Notre Dame and Columbia University, he served in the Navy during WWII. His play ''Portrait of a Queen'', wa produced on Broadway and London's West End. He i
 Samuel A. Garrison III, who as chief Republican counsel to the House Judiciary Committee in its Watergate investigation in 1974 argued against the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on May 27 near his home in Roanoke, Va. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, Mr. Garrison'
 Charles Evans, a founder of the fashion house Evan-Picone and who was also executive producer of the film ''Tootsie,'' died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his sister, Alice Shure, said. Mr. Evans, a native New Yorker, served in th
 Charles William Maynes, a longtime editor of Foreign Policy magazine who was also a former assistant secretary of state, died on Saturday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Gretchen Maynes. Published by the Carnegie Endowment for 
 Senator Craig Thomas, a Wyoming Republican who combined a deep love of Western rural life with a 23-year public career in his home state and Washington, died Monday evening in Bethesda, Md. He was 74 and had homes in Casper, Wyo., and Arlington, Va. The cause was acute myeloid leuke
 D. Nelson Adams, a former managing partner of Davis Polk & Wardwell, one of the nation's most prominent law firms, died on Thursday at his home in Barneveld, N.Y. He was 97 and also had a home in Manhattan. The death was confirmed by his son, Daniel N. Adams Jr. A specialist
 Donald Johanos, a former music director of the Dallas and Honolulu Symphonies and a prominent member of the generation of American conductors who emerged after World War II, died in Naples, Fla., on May 29. He was 79. He died at home after a long illness, said his son-in-law DJ McDo
 DAVIES--Robert Roy, passed away June 1, 2007. Born July 4, 1925. Worked as Display Designer at B. Altman & Co. Leaves beloved partner, Philip H. Rubin. He will be missed.       
 EVANS--Charles. A devoted and much beloved member of the Alzheimer's Association family. An ardent supporter of the Association's national research program, a devotee of the Alzheimer's Association Rita Hayworth Gala since 1984, and a Zenith Fellow. He will be greatly missed by the Alzheime
 FRIEDMAN--Gabriel (Gary), age 84 years, died peacefully from a cerebral hemorrhage on June 4. Beloved husband of Shirley, his wife of 64 years. Cherished father of Mindy Stevely and son and business partner Richard (Cynthia). Adored grandfather of Dakoda and Skye, Samara and Ross, and great
 HOEXTER--Dr. Barton, of Great Neck and Manhattan, died peacefully on June 3, 2007 at the age of 70. Recognized as one of the country's pre-eminent colon-rectal surgeons, Bart studied at Horace Mann, Kenyon College and George Washington University School of Medicine. He was a member of the P
 RUSSELL--Edward T., Widower of Mary Jane Russell, died in Savannah on May 20 after a brief illness at 82. He is survived by sons and daughters-in-law John and Cynthia; David; and Mark and Barbara; brother and sister-in-law Alfred and Lynn; and sister and brother-in-law Barbara and Bill Bren
 STANGER--Abraham M. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Abraham Stanger, and send condolences to his family.       
 SZLACHTER--Morris. Congregation Rodeph Sholom is deeply saddened bythe death of Morris Szlachter, widower of Frida Szlachter and the beloved father of Irwin Shlacter, our longtime past headmaster. He will be deeply missed by his family. We extend our deepest condolences to Irwin and Renee, 
 Steven Gilliard Jr., a political journalist who found his calling as a combative and influential blogger on the left, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 42. He died after having been hospitalized at Lenox Hill Hospital since February because of heart and kidney failure, said his 
 Arnold Lappert, the Army radio technician in Hawaii who received the last messages from the island of Corregidor before its surrender to the Japanese in May 1942, and nearly four years later realized a quest to find the fellow New Yorker who sent those final desperate words, died Friday in 
 Jim Clark, the former sheriff in Selma, Ala., whose violent, highly public attempts to maintain the status quo there in the Jim Crow era are widely believed to have contributed, however inadvertently, to the success of the voting rights movement, died Monday in Elba, Ala. He was 84 and had 
 Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania and the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Saturday near his home in Philadelphia. In 1965, he helped calm tensions as acting chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, in the demonstrations of th
 ADAMS--D. Nelson. The National Hypertension Association express great sadness upon the death of D. Nelson Adams, beloved and revered Trustee. $(6$)ADAMS--D. Nelson. The Board and staff of the Youth Counseling League, a division of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 
 EVANS--Charles. They're no friends like old friends. After 65 years, just 10 of us remain. We shall miss you Charley. The Century's $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Deepest sympathy to his wife Bonnie, sister Alice Shure, and the entire family. Bernie Weiss $(6$)EVANS--Charles. Beloved 
 GITHENS--Thomas Francis, age 79, of Point Pleasant, NJ died on Tuesday, June 5, 2007 after a 20 year, valiant fight with cancer. He was born in Cleveland Heights, OH and lived in Short Hills, NJ before moving to Point Pleasant in 1998. He was a graduate of Yale University and Columbia Unive
 PELL--Stuyvesant B., died June 3, 2007, at his home in Princeton, NJ, at age 75. Predeceased by his wife Patricia, and sister Melissa Pell Thomson, he was the son of the late Edith Minturn Bonsal Pell and The Reverend Walden Pell II, and is survived by his daughters Alison and Sarah; grands
 SZLACHTER--Morris. The Claremont Preparatory School community is deeply saddened by the death of Morris Szlachter, beloved father of our headmaster, Irwin Shlachter. Morris was a wonderful husband for 59 years to his late wife Frida, as well as a dedicated father to Irwin Shlachter and Celi
 Dr. Harvey R. Colten, a pediatric immunologist and a leading medical educator at Columbia University whose research helped isolate a gene tied to respiratory failure in infants, died on May 24 in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said.    
 Larry Leon Hamlin, the founder and executive director of the National Black Theater Festival, a gathering for theater professionals and an influential showcase for artists, died Wednesday at his home in Pfafftown, N.C. He was 58. Mr. Hamlin's wife, Sylvia Sprinkle-Hamlin, said the d
 DENSEN--Harold. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club, deeply mourn the loss of their beloved friend and esteemed member, Friar Harold Densen. Friar Densen was a member of the Friars Club for over five decades. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Private servic
 HOCHBERG--Marvin. The Graenum Berger Bronx Jewish Federation Service Center expresses profound sorrow on the passing of Marvin Hochberg, one of our founders. He personified the fundamental Jewish teaching that we are created to do good for others. His commitment to chesed and tzedakah throu
 MANDELBAUM--Frank. On June 7, 2007. Chairman and CEO of Intelli-Check, Inc. Beloved husband of Ann. Loving father of Robert and Jonathan, and David and Amy. Adoring grandfather of Julia and Samuel. Dearest brother of Lance and Ilene. Devoted uncle of Steven and Robyn, and Brian. Caring step
 MEYERSON--Martin. The Board of Directors and staff of the Monell Chemical Senses Center mourn the death of Martin Meyerson, Chairman of the Board. He will be greatly missed. A longterm supporter and advocate for the Monell Center, he was an inspired and dedicated leader. We extend our deepe
 PRINGLE--Stuart H. The partners of Thacher Proffitt & Wood LLP regret the passing of our former tax partner, Stuart H. Pringle, on June 4, 2007, in Pomfret, VT. Our thoughts and prayers are extended to his family. Stuart was a true gentleman with a wonderful dry wit and left many friends at
 WOLPER--David J., died on June 6, 2007 surrounded by family at Hospice by the Sea, Boca Raton, FL; survived by his wife of 63 years, Sylvia Leon Wolper; father of Steven, Robert and Cathy; grandfather of Caleb, Elizabeth, Andrew, Rachael, Michael and Zachary. We will all miss you, PopPop!  
 Edwin Traisman, a food scientist who helped standardize McDonald's French fries and develop Cheez Whiz for Kraft Foods, as well as researching the risks of E. coli bacteria, died Tuesday in Madison, Wis. He was 91 and lived in Monona, Wis. The cause was heart disease, his daughter J
 COOK--Richard A. The Oratorio Society of NY will always remember this gentle and brave man who graced our Board of Directors for many years. His quiet, but forceful personalty was evident as he faced his final days with a serenity typical of his inner strength. Ellen Blair, Chairman Richard
 DREW--Peter Obe, died suddenly at home, age 79. Beloved husband of Wendy, loving father of Paul, Ruth and Ellen, grandfather and greatgrandfather. He will be greatly missed by family and his many friends. Funeral service 3:30pm, Thursday, June 21st at St. Edmundsbury Cathedral. Family flowe
 FROMA SIJES--Ruth (nee Gassel), died June 5th of cancer, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Holocaust husband Yoel, survives as does his caretaking son Berl and Berl's wife Gaby, Yoel's daughter Ruby of Spain and Ruth's sister Sylvia Gassell and brother-in-law Joel Friedman of New York City.      
 METZGER--Bruce L., D.D.S., 65, of Morganville, New Jersey, passed away on Friday, June 8, 2007 at Riverview Medical Center. He was born and grew up in Brooklyn, New York. He obtained a B.A. in history from Brooklyn College and received his D.D.S. from NYU School of Dentistry. After graduati
 MEYERSON--Martin. The Directors of the Marconi Society at Columbia University recall the extraordinary contributions of its former chairman and Board member, as a wise, devoted friend and leader. A pioneer in urban planning and a towering figure in higher education, Martin Meyerson tireless
 MILLER--Bernard. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Bernard Miller, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 PAGE--Don. Architect, Graphic Designer, Artist, died June 4, 2007, at the age of 89. Everything he touched was transformed by his love of beauty and function and his genius. He was unique, generous and gentlemanly and had countless dedicated friends. He is survived by his niece Leslie Lopez
 STERN--Milton, O.D., died on May 17 at age 93. Devoted husband of Frances E. Stern, loving father of Judith Stern Torres and Daniel E. Stern, and grandfather of Julie S. Signor (nee Stern), Joel A. Torres, and Anne F. Stevens (nee Stern). Dr. Stern completed his education at Columbia Univer
 Les Schwab, a Western tire tycoon who turned a small shop he bought in 1952 into one of the most respected brands in the industry, died on May 18 in Prineville, Ore. He was 89. Mr. Schwab's death came after several months of declining health, according to a company statement.       
 ASHWELL--Thomas Buffum, died June 6, 2007 in New Haven, CT. Born May 28, 1920 and raised in New Canaan, CT, he graduated from Middlesex School and Harvard. He was a PT boat officer in the Pacific during World War II. In 1946, he joined Thomas Ashwell & Co., publishers of Export Trade magazi
 BROECKER--William, on June 4, 2007. It is with great sadness that the School of Visual Arts announces the death of a distinguished faculty member and dear friend, William Broecker. Born on November 21, 1932 in Detroit, he began teaching in the Photography Department at the School of Visual 
 DARRACH--Edward Harris Jr., The family and friends mourn his sudden death, June 5th NYC. A Memorial Service will be held June 14th at 11am at Church of The Resurrection, 119 E 74th St., NYC. In lieu flowers, donations appreciated: Dvlp N.Y.U. Med Ctr 550 1st Ave. PRK10 NY, NY 10016 Attn: La
 DEBLINGER--David B., on June 7th, 2007. A WWII veteran, he worked as an accountant for the City of New York. Patron of numerous organizations devoted to charity, social justice, the arts and conservation. Lifelong student of spiritual concepts. Husband of the late Cecilia. Father of Larry D
 DiJOSEPH--Louis R., a former longtime resident of Darien, CT, died of complications due to Parkinson's disease at his home in San Francisco, CA, on Wednesday, May 30 at age 79. Born in 1928 in Philadelphia, PA, he was the son of the late John and Jennie DiJoseph. Upon graduation from the Un
 FEDER--Walter. The Department of Medicine at Maimonides Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Walter Feder. Dr. Feder served as Director of our Division of Cardiology from 1967 to 1976. He is recognized for his significant contributions in the field of Cardiology and to the Medical Cente
 FRIEDMAN--Gary. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, NY mourns the loss of our honorable member, Gary Friedman. Mr. Friedman was the club's first president from 1962 to 1963 and will be greatly missed by all the members of the Woodcrest Club. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Shirley Friedman,
 GEMSON--Donald H., M.D., One of the nation's foremost experts in preventive medicine and a tireless public health advocate whose efforts helped ensure passage of New York's smoking ban, died on Thursday, May 31, 2007, after a brief illness. He was 55 years old. At the time of his death, Dr.
 GOODWIN--F. Lawrence, Jr., age 88, of Wilton, CT, died peacefully at home Tuesday evening, June 5, after a short bout with pancreatic cancer, surrounded by his wife Terry and his wonderful caregivers. He had not been in his usual robust health since he suffered a stroke in 1994 which ended 
 HOEXTER--Dr. Barton, of Great Neck and Manhattan, died peacefully on June 3, 2007 at the age of 70. Recognized as one of the country's pre-eminent colon-rectal surgeons, Bart studied at Horace Mann, Kenyon College and George Washington University School of Medicine. He was a member of the P
 JOHANOS--Donald, one of the first prominent, American-born symphony orchestra conductors, died May 29 in Naples, FL, surrounded by his loving family. Maestro Johanos trained at the Eastman School of Music and served as Associate Conductor of the Pittsburgh Symphony and Music Director of the
 KANE--Lester P., died peacefully at age 84 on May 31, leaving his devoted wife of 61 years, Libby, and children Nancy, Robert, Richard and Claudia, sons-in-law Les Michael and Ross, daughter-inlaw Susan, and four grandchildren, Micah, Logan, Diego and Alicia. He was a World War II veteran w
 MAYNES--Charles William. Center on Philanthropy and Civil Society mourns the passing of its Advisory Board member, Bill Maynes. He was a man of profound intelligence, integrity, kindness and courage, and will be sorely missed.       
 MEYERSON--Martin. The Directors of the Marconi Society at Columbia University recall the extraordinary contributions of its former chairman and Board member, as a wise, devoted friend and leader. A pioneer in urban planning and a towering figure in higher education, Martin Meyerson tireless
 PAGE--Don. Architect, Graphic Designer, Artist, died June 4, 2007, at the age of 89. Everything he touched was transformed by his love of beauty and function and his genius. He was unique, generous and gentlemanly and had countless dedicated friends. He is survived by his niece Leslie Lopez
 PARKER--Sonie, 74, of Brooklyn, NY, died on June 6, 2007. He leaves behind his wife of 50 years, Georgie Parker, and children Toni, Glenn and New York State Senator Kevin Parker.       
 PIONK--Richard, June 5, 2007. Esteemed painter, teacher. The Artists Fellowship, Inc. mourns the loss of our devoted Trustee and dear friend. $(6$)PIONK--Richard Cletus, instructor of Painting at The Art Student's League of New York and President of the Salmagundi Club, died Tuesday
 PRESBY--Philip Alan. After a more than two-year bout with lymphoma and pneumonia, Phil Presby finally succumbed to his illness on Thursday, June 7. He was 43. He was born in Dayton, Ohio on August 8, 1963 to J. Thomas Presby and Elaine Smith Presby and grew up in West Orange and Essex Fells
 PUGLIA--Giacomo. June 6th, 2007, at age 78. Cherished husband of Felice (nee Ochs). Beloved father of Howard and Marianne, father-in-law of Gina, and grandfather of Zackary and Elizabeth. Leaves behind his devoted family in Italy. A wonderful man who embraced life and lived it to the fulles
 REICH--Louis, June 9, 2007, age 104. Beloved husband of the late Kitty. Adored father of Honey and Norman Mann, Jay (deceased) and June. Dear brother of Anne. His grandchildren Alan and Richard Mann, Lori Gluck, Jill and Gregg, Sharon and Ronni, loved him unconditionally as did his greatgra
 SCHWARTZ--Howard Robert, C.P.A., died June 7, 2007 age 52. Devoted father of Peter, Nina, Greggory, and Zared. Beloved son of Rita and Donald. Cherished brother of Steven and Fredric and Susan Fried. Favorite uncle. To know him was to love him.       
 THOMAS--Jeffrey Furlough, died in San Francisco on June 2, 2007 in the presence of his immediate family. Born in New York City on November 27, 1938 he was the beloved husband of Evelyne Champin, to whom he was married 38 years ago; the adored father of Patrick (and father-inlaw of Rachel) a
 TIFFEN--Richard Marc, 51. Educator, IT Director, Naturalist of Norwalk, CT, following a 15 month battle with brain cancer on Wednesday, May 30, 2007. His career reflected his wide interests in technology, science and education. Most recently, Director of Information Technology in Wilton and
 ABRAMOWITZ--Mortimer J., age 90, died April 10. Former Superintendent, Great Neck Public Schools (1967-1982). Remembered for his educational leadership and moral courage by 1970's School Board members Frank Phillips, J. Robert Rosenthal, M.D., Claire J. Speciner, Laz Weiner and Michael S. Z
 MOSZKOWSKI--Enrique, M.D., FACS, of Buenos Aires, Argentina and New York, NY; died June 4, 2007, in New York, after a long illness. Dr. Moszkowski was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina on October 29, 1928, and graduated from the University of Buenos Aires School of Medicine in 1952. He came t
 ROSENZWEIG--Maxwell, of Coconut Creek, Florida, formerly of Bayside, New York, died peacefully on May 30, 2007. Beloved husband of Mae (Blatt) for over 60 years; father of Robin and Alex Schkrutz and Roy Rosenzweig and Deborah Kaplan; grandfather of David and Eric Schkrutz; brother of the l
 VORDER BRUEGGE--Carl M., 77, of Riverside, CT, died on May 31. Youngest of John and Agnes Vorder Bruegge's six children, born in Memphis, TN on November 12, 1929. B.A., University of TN, Knoxville. M.B.A., Wharton School of Business, University of PA. 1st Lt. awarded Purple Heart and Bronze
 Homer J. Stewart, an aerospace engineer and rocket propulsion expert who in 1958 helped launch the first successful American satellite, Explorer 1, while he kept tabs on rival efforts by the Russians, died on May 26 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Stewart's death was 
 Dr. John P. McGovern, a Houston allergist and real-estate investor whose philanthropy helped endow medical facilities at Duke University, the Texas Medical Center and other institutions, died on May 31 in Galveston, Tex. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. D
 Ousmane Sembène, the Senegalese filmmaker and writer who was a crucial figure in Africa's postcolonial cultural awakening, has died at his home in Dakar, Senegal. His family, which announced his death on Sunday, said Mr. Sembène had been ill since December. He was 84. Widely seen 
 BERNSTEIN--Allan, June 13, 1930-June 10, 2007. Beloved husband of Dorothy, predeceased by son, Elliott, survived by his adored children, Eric and Joy, Gail and Sammy Cohen, cherished grandchildren, Adam, Annie, Alexa, Samantha, Samantha Findlay and Aldo. Service Monday at 12 Noon in Bernhei
 DARRACH--Edward Harris Jr., The family and friends mourn his sudden death, June 5th NYC. A Memorial Service will be held June 14th at 11am at Church of The Resurrection, 119 E 74th St., NYC. In lieu flowers, donations appreciated: Dvlp N.Y.U. Med Ctr 550 1st Ave. PRK10 NY, NY 10016 Attn: La
 DRUCKER--Milton (Mike), 85, Ed.D., died peacefully June 9, 2007. Founder and former Dean of the Marine Education Program at Kingsborough Community College. Previously served as Deputy to the Chancellor for Legislative Affairs of CUNY and executive director of the office of Queens District A
 FEDER--Walter, M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Walter Feder. Dr. Feder was associated with Maimonides Medical Center for more than 40 years. He served as chief of the cardiology division from 1967-1976. He was an excellent clinician
 FRIEDMAN--Gary. The Woodcrest Club of Syosset, NY mourns the loss of our honorable member, Gary Friedman. Mr. Friedman was the club's first president from 1962 to 1963 and will be greatly missed by all the members of the Woodcrest Club. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Shirley Friedman,
 MEYERSON--Martin. The Directors of the Marconi Society at Columbia University recall the extraordinary contributions of its former chairman and Board member, as a wise, devoted friend and leader. A pioneer in urban planning and a towering figure in higher education, Martin Meyerson tireless
 PRESBY--Philip Alan. After a more than two-year bout with lymphoma and pneumonia, Phil Presby finally succumbed to his illness on Thursday, June 7. He was 43. He was born in Dayton, Ohio on August 8, 1963 to J. Thomas Presby and Elaine Smith Presby and grew up in West Orange and Essex Fells
 THOMAS--Jeffrey Furlough, died in San Francisco on June 2, 2007 in the presence of his immediate family. Born in New York City on November 27, 1938 he was the beloved husband of Evelyne Champin, to whom he was married 38 years ago; the adored father of Patrick (and father-inlaw of Rachel) a
 LICHTENSTEIN--Dr. Lawrence, on June 9, 2007. Beloved husband of the late Irene (nee Sonnenschein). Loving father of Loan Tucker and Robert Lichtenstein. Fond father-in-law of Alan Tucker. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Josh, Seth and Jamie. A prominent dental practitioner for 50 years a
 VORDER BRUEGGE--Carl M., 77, of Riverside, CT, died on May 31. Youngest of John and Agnes Vorder Bruegge's six children, born in Memphis, TN on November 12, 1929. B.A., University of TN, Knoxville. M.B.A., Wharton School of Business, University of PA. 1st Lt. awarded Purple Heart and Bronze
 Richard Rorty, whose inventive work on philosophy, politics, literary theory and more made him one of the world's most influential contemporary thinkers, died Friday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 75. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Mary Varney Rorty.
 COOK -- Richard A. The Trustees and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute of New York & New Jersey, together with George M. Isdale, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and the Rev. Jean R. Smith, D.D., Executive Director, express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Richard A. Cook. 
 FEDER--Walter, M.D. The Yeshiva University/Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family mourns the passing of a distinguished cardiologist, admired scholar of rabbinics and Jewish History, who served on the Board of Directors of the Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies, and w
 MEYERSON - Martin. The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Dr. Martin Meyerson, JPS Life Trustee and former Vice President, whose profound commitment to scholarship and broad vision of the humanities so greatly enriched the Society's literary programs. May his me
 PETRIE--John A. II, It is with tremendous sadness and deep affection that the entire New York Hospital Queens family mourns the passing of one of our own, John A. Petrie II, our Vice President for Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Compliance Officer. Mr. Petrie was a strong and ever-calm sou
 SNITOW - Raymond, died peacefully on June 9, 2007 at the age of 90. Devoted husband of Toby; beloved father of Franklyn and Rosalyn, Robert and Jacqueline Willens; cherished ''Papa'' of Dr. Ari and Alyson Walfish, Gary and Dina, Dovid and Emily Feinberg; loving great-grand''papa'' of Avi, U
 WEBER--Martin J. died at home on June 9, 2007 at the age of 102. Born in New York City on March 7, 1905, son of Rebecca and Philip Weiner. He is survived by Naomi, his wife of 48 years, his children Ellen, Carl, and Joy Weber and Marilyn Marsden, 10 grandchildren, and 15 greatgrandchildren.
 MARASHINSKY--Julius, World War II Veteran, of East Rockaway, New York, died June 10. Survived by wife, Myra, of 57 years, he will be remembered with love, and affection by her and children Amy Sophia and Andrew Marashinsky, Amanda Lundberg, son-in-law, Marcel, and grandchildren Charlotte an
 FLAHERTY--Mark, Sr. February 20, 1927-June 12, 2003. Still living in the hearts of those who love him. Ruth, Patricia and Mark Jr.       
 Don Herbert, who unlocked the wonders of science for youngsters of the 1950s and '60s as television's Mr. Wizard, died yesterday at his home in the Bell Canyon section of Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was bone cancer, his son-in-law Tom Nikosey told The Associated Press in confi
 DAVID--Stuart, 66, died Monday, June 11, in New York City after battling cancer for a year and a half with great attitude and style. Cherished and cherishing husband of Denise Demong, father of Francesca and Michael, and brother of Meryl Heaney and Lisa Nedell. He was beloved by many more a
 DiSALVO -- Nicholas A., D.D.S., Ph.D., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry within the Section of Growth and Development, Division of Orthodontics, at the Columbia University College of Dental Medicine, passed away on June 8, 2007. Dr. DiSalvo received his D.D.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia 
 KIM--Jung Ju, Ph.D, AIA. J.J. Kim, a devoted husband, father, and grandfather died peacefully Monday, June 11, 2007 in New York, NY, after a long battle with diabetes. He was 70. Dr. Kim, South Korea's first Ph.D. in architecture, came to the U.S. in 1956 to attend Pfeiffer College and then
 LEVINE--Herbert S., 78, June 10, 2007, Professor to some but Herb to all. His passing is mourned by his family, friends, and countless students at the University of Pennsylvania whose lives he touched. Services Thursday, 10 am precisely, Joseph Levine and Sons Memorial Chapel, 4737 Street R
 LYNTON--Harold S., 97, on June 11. Mourned by his wife Hattie, sons Stephen and Dick, granddaughters, and family. Formerly husband of the late Edith F. Lynton. Father of the late Andrew. Former partner in the law firm of Shea & Gould; Of Counsel to Dornbush Schaeffer Strongin & Venaglia. Me
 MARX--Peter Maxwell, died on June the 11th, 2007, after a brief illness. Peter was born in New York City and attended Oakhurst Day School in Deal, New Jersey. He also attended Clark School on the Dartmouth College campus, Cornell University, The Citadel and Pennsylvania Military College. He
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Herman. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 STAVOLA--Joseph, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our former colleague Dr. Joseph Stavola and his wife, Jeanne Serocke. The Chief of Pediatric Infectious Disease at NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, and Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics 
 SWEEDLER--Paul. The Officers and Clergy of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourn the passing of Paul Sweedler, father of our congregant Susan Ach, and father-in-law of our Trustee Laurence E. Ach. May his memory be for a blessing. Beth Lee, President David J. Gelfand, Rabbi       
 WOLF--Norton. On June 11, 2007, beloved husband of Joan, devoted father of Anne Price and James Wolf, and stepfather of David Lipton. Cherished grandfather of Nicholas Lipton and Michael Lipton. He was a noted advertising executive for 50 years in the metropolitan area. Funeral private.    
 ZETLIN -- Valentine Wolf, M.D., of Leonia, NJ, beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather, died June 9. Dr. Zetlin was born March 8, 1912 in Paris. His father was the Russian revolutionary, poet and editor Mikhail Zetlin, founder of The New Review, a New Yorkbased Russian-la
 MARASHINSKY--Julius.The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Julius Marashinsky, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Myra, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President       
 MASTELLONE--George J., M.D. He was born on March 19, 1914, in Manhattan, son of Antonio Mastellone and Flavia Franco Mastellone. He is survived by his beloved wife of 57 years, Florence Rasero Mastellone, of Williamstown, MA, his son George, of Arlington, MA, daughter Flavia, of New Ashford
 Baron Guy de Rothschild, the patriarch of the French branch of the famous banking dynasty who rebuilt and expanded its Paris bank after it was seized during World War II and then saw it survive another government takeover in the 1980s, died Tuesday in Paris. He was 98. The Rothschil
 BEYER--Saul, 87, June 12, 2007. His passing will be mourned by his family. Saul is survived by his three children, David, Jonathan, and Liz, their spouses, nine grandchildren and a number of cousins, nieces and nephews. Saul was a decorated WWII veteran who was wounded in the Battle of the 
 BOGATIN--Philip F., 87, cherished husband of Sandra, beloved father of Jeffrey and Susan, Lisa and Barry, and Patrice and Andrew, and loving grandfather of Rachel and Edmund, Rebecca, Andrew, Kate, Jack and Jane. He was a graduate of Pennsylvania State University. He was a Major in the US A
 COOK--Richard A. The Board of Directors of the Hundred Year Association of New York mourns the loss of its Chairman, Richard A. Cook. He worked tirelessly to support the awards to New York Civil Service Employees and college scholarships for their sons and daughters, as well as to celebrate
 COOPER--Emmanuel. The Board and Staff of The Workmen's Circle mourn the passing of Emmanuel ''Jay'' Cooper z''l. We offer our respect for his memory to his wife, Buni; our treasured friends Adrienne and Sarah; and their entire family.       
 GREEF--Howard A., of Essex Fells, New Jersey died Wednesday, June 13 at the age of 69. He was the beloved husband of Mimi, cherished father of Leslie Yarusinsky, Charles Greef; stepfather of Elissa Krebs and Erica Cohen; and adored grandfather of William, Lexa, Jolie, and Phoebe. Mr. Greef 
 HERLITZ--Bruce S. Longtime resident of Larchmont, NY on June 12, 2007. Mourned by his family and friends.       
 LIFSHITZ--Moshe. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American and International Societies for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Moshe Lifshitz, husband of Cheryl Skura Lifshitz, Member of the Board and our Executive Committee, son-in-law of Stella and Sam Skura. He is survived
 LYNTON--Harold S., 97, on June 11. Mourned by his wife Hattie, sons Stephen and Dick, granddaughters, and family. Formerly husband of the late Edith F. Lynton. Father of the late Andrew. Former partner in the law firm of Shea & Gould; Of Counsel to Dornbush Schaeffer Strongin & Venaglia. Me
 PHILLIPS--Raymond H. Members of SCORE Chapter 1000 mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. $(6$)PHILLIPS--Raymond H. The Partners and staff at Weiser, LLP, mourn the passing of Raymond H. Phillips, father of our Managing Partner Dougl
 SPEYER--Samuel, of Greenport, New York, in his 93rd year. Devoted husband for 63 years of the late Irma Speyer, father of Jane and Jonathan Weber of Nashua, NH, Dr. James and Karen Speyer of Manhattan, and Margaret and Paul Poster of Scarsdale. Proud grandfather of Elizabeth, Ted, Julia, An
 STAVOLA--Dr. Joseph J., 46, and his beloved wife, Jeanne C. Serocke-Stavola, 44, both of Pelham Manor, NY, passed away on the evening of June 9, 2007. Joe and Jeanne's lives revolved around their family and steadfastly supported and nurtured their sons, James and William. In addition to the
 Rudolf Arnheim, a distinguished psychologist, philosopher and critic whose work explored the cognitive basis of art -- how we interpret it and, by extension, the world -- died on Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 102. The death was confirmed by his daughter, Margaret N
 Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general and president of Austria whose hidden ties to Nazi organizations and war crimes were exposed late in his career, died yesterday at his home in Vienna. He was 88. His death was announced by his wife, Elisabeth, and the office
 APPLEBY--William R., 92, passed away at home on June 14th. He is survived by his beloved wife Elinor, sons Peter, Richard, and John, by his daughter-in-law Stephanie Raia and his grandchildren Kyra, David, and Gabriel. He was treasured by his extended family including Jim, Susan, Chris, Nan
 AWAD--Dr. Elias Steelo, Ph.D., 80, New York, June 12, 2007. Brilliant, strong and admirable man, with contributions to life, science and the arts in ways well beyond his time. An eternal scholar and mentor, he helped shape the lives of many. He will be forever loved and remembered as a dedi
 BARNES--James Rush, of New York City and Montreal, Canada, born in Saint Louis, MO, December 2, 1946, was raised in Garden City Long Island and Easthampton. A graduate of Georgetown Preparatory School, Georgetown College, and University of Virginia Law School in 1971, he joined Hawkins, Del
 BERMAN--Joseph. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Joseph Berman of Forest Hills, NY. A Technion graduate with a degree in Civil Engineering and Construction, he and his wife Miriam were longtime and steadfast ATS supporters. We extend our
 COOPER--Emmanuel. The Board and Staff of The Workmen's Circle mourn the passing of Emmanuel ''Jay'' Cooper z''l. We offer our respect for his memory to his wife, Buni; our treasured friends Adrienne and Sarah; and their entire family.       
 KLEINBERG--Jerry. Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen, P.C. offer our sincerest condolences to the family of our partner and friend, Fredric A. Kleinberg, on the passing of his brother, Jerry Kleinberg. Our thoughts are with Fred, his sister-in-law Joan, his nephews Neil and Eric, brother Andy
 KLIOT--Boris, 84, born in Riga, Latvia, survived four concentration camps before he immigrated to the US where he became a successful entrepreneur. He founded Riviera Trading Company, which is credited with introducing fashionable eyeware to the American public. Boris was a devoted philanth
 LYNTON--Harold. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Harold Lynton. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Hattie and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary 
 PHILLIPS--Raymond. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Raymond Phillips, beloved husband of Malvina and devoted father of Douglas, Joan, and Steven. The Phillips family's generous contributions have enabled us to enrich the Jewish c
 Leonard F. Pickell Jr., the former president of the James Beard Foundation who was imprisoned for stealing from it after years of promoting it as one of the nation's top culinary institutions, died on Wednesday at his home in Howell, N.J. He was 53. A private autopsy determined that
 Martin J. Weber, a graphic artist, typographer and art director who invented a widely adopted technique that gave two-dimensional images the illusion of appearing in three dimensions, died last Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. His death was announced by his son, Dr. Ca
 APPLEBY--William. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member William Appleby. We extended our deepest condolences to his family. N. Barry Ross, President Jeffrey Levy, Secretary $(6$)APPLEBY--William R., 92, passed away at home on Jun
 GELLMAN--Jerome I., 79, on June 14 of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, former longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York. Mourned by Florence, his wife of 55 years. Loving father of Elyse (Bill), Stephen (Wendy) and Ken (Melissa). Joyful and doting grandfather of Amanda, Lindsay, David, Alexa, Re
 KLIOT--Boris, age 84, born in Riga, Latvia was the only member of his family to survive the Latvian massacres of 1941. He survived four concentration camps and relocated to the United States after the war where he became a successful entrepreneur. As a founder, owner and CEO of Riviera Trad
 WARNER--Stephen, 61, passed away on Thursday, June 14th, 2007. He will be missed and remembered with love by his wife Sena, his son David, his daughter and son-in-law Lindsey and Michael Bloomenthal, and his brother Dr. Robert Warner. He was a partner and active trial lawyer in the firm War
 Randolph F. Dial, an artist and confessed hit man who fled a life sentence for murder to spend nearly 11 years on the run with a deputy warden's wife, died Wednesday in the infirmary of the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester. He was 62. A prison spokeswoman announced the death
 William C. Mercer, the former president and chairman of the New England Telephone Company, died on June 6 in Westwood, Mass. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, his son Robert said. Mr. Mercer started his career as an auditor and eventually climbed up the ranks to become
 Charles Lee Remington, the intellectual patriarch of modern American lepidopterology, the scientific study of butterflies and moths, died on May 31 in Hamden, Conn. He was 85. His death was confirmed by his wife, Ellen Mahoney. Dr. Remington, a professor at Yale University f
 Israel Shenker, a scholar trapped in a newsman's body who was known to readers of The New York Times for his vast erudition and sly, subversive wit, died on June 9 at Kibbutz Shoval in southern Israel. He was 82. Mr. Shenker, who had recently been in declining health, died in his sl
 ANDRES--Stephen C., of Upper Montclair, NJ, on June 16, 2007. Born April 7, 1921. Husband of Else, father of Steven, Tim and Robert. Grandfather of four, great-grandfather of two. He will be dearly missed with everlasting love. Visitation at the Hugh M. Moriarty Funeral Home, 76 Park St., M
 ARONSON--Norman Leonard, a former naval officer, entrepreneur, publishing executive, restaurant owner, died of cancer on Friday, June 15, 2007. He was 83 years old. His wife was the late Marcia Ross Rosey. Born in Washington, DC, he was the son of the late Herman and Bertha Miller Aronson. 
 CLIGGOTT--Richard T., Sr., founder of Cliggott Publishing Company and a pioneer in the medical publishing world died at his home in Greenwich, CT, June 9th with his wife, Janet at his side. In 1970, Mr. Cliggott led a group of investors in the purchase of ''Consultant Magazine'' from Smith 
 GELLMAN--Jerome I., 79, on June 14 of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, former longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York. Mourned by Florence, his wife of 55 years. Loving father of Elyse (Bill), Stephen (Wendy) and Ken (Melissa). Joyful and doting grandfather of Amanda, Lindsay, David, Alexa, Re
 HIMMELMAN--Charles, died May 17, 2007. A veteran of WWII. He studied meteorology at Haverford College under a program run by the United State's Army. In 1947 he received his law degree from New York University and practiced law in New York City for 40 years. He is survived by his sister Cla
 KALTMAN--Martin, died on June 15th at the age of 92. He had homes in Old Westbury, NY and Key Biscayne, FL. He was a man of great vision, imagination and a pioneer of the modern Lithographic industry in New York. With fellow Brooklyn Tech graduate Max Verebay they started Kaltman Press in 1
 KLIOT--Boris. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Boris Kliot, beloved husband of Jacqueline and father of Michel, Gene, and Jason. Boris' devotion to Jewish philanthropy has strengthened our ability to serve those in need. We extend o
 LYNCH--James. Born February 7, 1913, received a B.A. in Economics from Princeton University. He worked for the New York News as Treasurer and for the Chicago Tribune as Vice President. In World War II, he earned the Bronze Star as an Infantryman. His wife Alene Lynch died in 1991. They are 
 METZ--Eugene L., 90, a lifelong educator, died in Augusta, Georgia on May 30, 2007. Born in New York City in 1917, son of Herman A. Metz and Alice van Ronk Metz, he attended The Choate School (class of 1936) and Yale University (class of 1941). Due to a childhood bout with Polio, he was una
 MOHR--Hon. Donald F., former Family Court Judge, beloved husband of Barbara, devoted father of Martin and Alison, dear brother of Harriet Schutzer and loving grandfather. Services Monday, 11:30am at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1652 Central Park Ave., Yonkers, NY. $(6$)MOHR--Donald. We mourn 
 NEIMAND--Samuel. June 8th, 2007. Born October 1st, 1917. Survived by his wife Pauline of 67 years, brothers Murray and Harry, his sister Sally, his children Jerry (Jane) Neimand, Judi (Jerry) Lerman, and Bonnie (Jeff) Sherman, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren.       
 SHAPIRO--Arnold, 90 years old, passed away on June 15th, 2007. Beloved husband for 20 years of Muriel Abramson Shapiro. He was predeceased by his first wife, the late Dorothy Milton Shapiro. Beloved father of Douglas and Cynthia Shapiro and Marjorie Shapiro, and the late Joel Shapiro. Belov
 SPARKMAN--John C., died May 13, 2007, at his home on Groton Long Point, CT. He is survived by his wife, Patricia, his daughter Susan Sparkman-Sperandio, his sons John Jr. and Paul, and three grandsons. He was a partner at Carter, Ledyard & Milburn. A memorial will be held September 6, at Th
 SPOOR--Martin, a wonderful husband, father, son, brother, friend, and doctor, died tragically on June 4, 2007 while helping others. We all miss him terribly and treasure the many memories built from his enthusiasm and love of music, travels, sports, fun, and the outdoors. Most of all we wil
 WOLF--Norton. The Officers and Membership of the East 62nd Street Association mourn the passing of our long serving and cherished President, Norton Wolf. $(6$)WOLF--Norton. On June 11, 2007, beloved husband of Joan, devoted father of Anne Price and James Wolf, and stepfather of David Lipton
 McGUINNESS--William G. The family and friends of William ''Bill'' McGuinness mourn his death at age 81 on June 4, 2007 in Greenport, NY. He is survived by his wife Cornelia and their eight children and 14 grandchildren. A funeral service was held on June 9, at the Church of St. Patrick, Hun
 Gianfranco Ferré, the Italian fashion designer noted for a consistently singular vision in his signature ready-to-wear collection and for opening the doors of French haute couture to foreign-born designers, died Sunday night in Milan. He was 62. After suffering a brain hemorrhage o
 ANDRES--Stephen C., of Upper Montclair, NJ, on June 16, 2007. Born April 7, 1921. Husband of Else, father of Steven, Tim and Robert. Grandfather of four, great-grandfather of two. He will be dearly missed with everlasting love. Visitation at the Hugh M. Moriarty Funeral Home, 76 Park St., M
 GELLMAN--Jerome I., 79, on June 14 of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, former longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York. Mourned by Florence, his wife of 55 years. Loving father of Elyse (Bill), Stephen (Wendy) and Ken (Melissa). Joyful and doting grandfather of Amanda, Lindsay, David, Alexa, Re
 KALTMAN--Martin, died on June 15th at the age of 92. He had homes in Old Westbury, NY and Key Biscayne, FL. He was a man of great vision, imagination and a pioneer of the modern Lithographic industry in New York. With fellow Brooklyn Tech graduate Max Verebay they started Kaltman Press in 1
 LEE--Joel S., distinguished scholar and brilliant Professor of Law, died April 15th 2007, at age 93. Following valiant service in the US Army in WWII, he earned his law degree at New York University. Satisfying his lifelong ambition to teach law, he joined the faculty at New York Law School
 LYNCH--James. Born February 7, 1913, received a B.A. in Economics from Princeton University. He worked for the New York News as Treasurer and for the Chicago Tribune as Vice President. In World War II, he earned the Bronze Star as an Infantryman. His wife Alene Lynch died in 1991. They are 
 MOHR--Donald F. I mourn the loss of a dear friend, respected jurist and excellent practitioner. Robert A. Kahn $(6$)MOHR--Donald. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and classmate ''Reds'' Mohr, he was one of our best. Phi Sigma Delta, Class of 1955 , Union College       
 SHAPIRO--Arnold, 90 years old, passed away on June 15th, 2007. Beloved husband for 20 years of Muriel Abramson Shapiro. He was predeceased by his first wife, the late Dorothy Milton Shapiro. Beloved father of Douglas and Cynthia Shapiro and Marjorie Shapiro, and the late Joel Shapiro. Belov
 SHIMBERG--James Heiman, 84, of Tampa, FL, formerly of New York, dies June 15, 2007. He is survived by his beloved wife of fifty years, Amy Gross Shimberg; his five children and their spouses: James, Jr. (Elizabeth); Nancy (Dr. Edward Paikoff); Robert (Michele); Richard (Dena) and Janet (And
 SIMON--Peter Neil, 61, passed away from complications from a stem cell transplant for leukemia/MDS. Son of the late Dr. Louis and Libby Simon. He was loved by his wife Nancy; daughters Emily and Lauren; son-in-law Michael; brother Alan and sister-in-law Carole; family Michael, Donna, Sarah,
 WRIGHT--Mark, a Broadway stage manager long-associated with playwright Edward Albee and director Alan Schneider, died at age 77 on Wednesday, June 6, 2007 in Los Angeles, where he had lived for the past 20 years. Mr. Wright's first Broadway assignment as stage manager was the original produ
 Robert Tracy, a prolific dance writer, died on June 7 in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was complications of infection with H.I.V., said his sister, Mary Ellen Tracy. Mr. Tracy's first book, ''Balanchine's Ballerinas: Conversations With the Muses,'' was published by Simon &
 Sir Wally Herbert, the first man to walk across the icebound Arctic Ocean and, some contend, the first to reach the North Pole on foot, a feat long credited to Rear Adm. Robert E. Peary, died Tuesday in Scotland at 72. The cause was diabetes, said his daughter, Kari Herbert. Sir Wal
 Colin Fletcher, whose  ornate prose and prosaic tips on subjects like choosing the right  hiking boots helped start  the modern backpacking movement, died June 12 in Monterey, Calif. He  was 85. Mr. Fletcher died as a result of complications of head injuries he sustained in 2001 whe
 BLOOMBERG--Daniel, 89. Died June 16th, 2007. Loving partner of Betty Sandler, devoted father to Susan (Arthur) Landau, and Neil (Cathy) Bloomberg, beloved Papa Danny to Meredith, Rebecca, Ken, Leigh and Kay. For over 22 years, he lived his dream in Sarasota with Betty by his side. Predeceas
 BOOTH--David B., age 82, Sociologist, Ph. D. Northwestern. Born in Chicago, died in Winsor, Ontario, Canada, on May 3, 2007. Survived by wife Ruth Drelich Booth, his children Tamara Booth and Donald Booth (Carmel Suttor), and two granddaughters.       
 BRODY--Benjamin, 87, died on June 17th, 2007. He is survived by his wife, Georgia, two sons, David and Samuel, and two granddaughters. Announcement of a memorial service is forthcoming.       
 FITZGEORGE--Harold J., 82, Korean Conflict hero, retired Chairman of Pennzoil Exploration and Production Company, died June 14 at his home in Vero Beach, Florida from complications of Parkinson's disease. Mr. Fitzgeorge (often known as Fitz) spent 29 years with Mobil Oil. Mr. Fitzgeorge ser
 KALTMAN--Martin, died on June 15th at the age of 92. He had homes in Old Westbury, NY and Key Biscayne, FL. He was a man of great vision, imagination and a pioneer of the modern Lithographic industry in New York. With fellow Brooklyn Tech graduate Max Verebay they started Kaltman Press in 1
 O'BRIEN--Daniel Bryce, aged 61 years, of Wassaic, NY, and Aiken, SC, died peacefully on June 18, 2007. Danny graduated from Malvern Preparatory School in 1964 and earned a Bachelor of Science in Business from Georgetown University in 1968. In addition to being a great family man, Danny was 
 SERKEY--Renee J., June 18, 2007. Much beloved father of Robert and Richard; fatherin-law of Pauline and Louise; grandfather of Ethan, Rebecca, and Jakub; uncle of Peter, Deirdre, Tony, and Anglea. He will live in our hearts forever. Service Sunday, June 24, 1pm at ''Schwartz Bros.'' (Queens
 SISKIN--Lillian, at 91 years. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence Siskin, passed June 16, 2007. Confidante, best friend, wonderful mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. We will miss you so much. Your loving daughters, Marilyn Merker (Dr. Charles Merker), Jeri Sapir (Robert Sapir), your s
 STERN--Jeffrey. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Ina and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, Pres
 Thommie Walsh, a Tony-winning choreographer who also created the role of Bobby in the original production of ''A Chorus Line,'' died Saturday at his mother's home in Auburn, N.Y. He was 57. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said his manager, Robert Duva. As a dance-ma
