 Ned Berry Stiles, a former managing partner of the international Wall Street law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, died Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 70 and lived in Greenwich and Quogue, N.Y. He had a brief illness after a stroke, the firm said. Mr. Stiles 
 Dr. Allan Fromme, a psychologist and writer known for his warmhearted, common-sense approach to life's day-to-day concerns in his many television and radio appearances, died on Thursday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Dr. Fromme (pronounced FROE-mee), a native New Yorker, spent 50 year
 Burton Feldman, a historian who chronicled and appraised the Nobel Prizes, died on Jan. 10 in Denver. He was 76 and lived in Denver. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Peggy. A recently retired professor of English at the University of Denver, he won critical praise for hi
 Michael de Lisio, a sculptor and poet, died on Jan. 21 in Manhattan, one day short of his 92nd birthday. Mr. de Lisio was born in Manhattan. His parents were Italian immigrants, and he was largely self-taught. He had minor success as a poet, publishing sporadically in little magazin
 Mongo Santamaria, a Cuban conga player and percussionist who arrived in New York at the beginning of the jazz-Latin fusion and was arguably the most popular Latin musician of the 1960's, died on Saturday. He was 85. He had been placed on life support at a Miami hospital after a stro
 Lou Harrison, a distinguished composer in all genres of classical music, founder of the American gamelan movement and a leading exemplar of the marriage of Asian and Western music, died on Sunday evening at a Denny's restaurant in Lafayette, Ind. He was 85 and lived in Aptos, Calif.        
 Richard C. Lee, the former mayor of New Haven whose urban renewal programs in the 1950's and 1960's earned national recognition and created a template for decades of future city revitalization projects, died on Sunday. He was 86. Mr. Lee had suffered from diabetes and heart disease 
 Richard Edmund Lyng, a California businessman who became the secretary of agriculture in the Reagan administration, died on Saturday at his home in Modesto, Calif. He was 84. His death was announced in Washington by the current secretary, Ann M. Veneman, a Modesto native to whom Mr.
 Gregg Rice, a former professor of biology at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died Jan. 19 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 59 and a longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was Alzheimer's, said his wife, Laura. Professor Rice was born in Manhattan and grew up
 Jerome Hines, a bass whose performing career spanned six decades -- including 41 years as a mainstay of the Metropolitan Opera, where he had the longest career of any principal singer in the company's history -- died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Sco
 Alexander I. Ross, a former advertising executive and national leader in Jewish organizations, died on Tuesday in Rye, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his daughter, Catherine. For three decades, Mr. Ross worked for the advert
 Arthur J. Olsen, a retired Foreign Service officer and former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was heart disease, his son-in-law, Gordon Matthews, said. Mr. Olsen covered West and East Germany and Ea
 Jerry Mayer, who won an Obie award for one of his own long-running one-man shows, was found dead in his apartment in Manhattan on Feb. 3. He was believed to be about 60. He was discovered after he missed rehearsals for ''Endgame,'' a workshop production directed by André Gregory. M
 Peter Shaw, a retired talent agent, studio executive and a co-producer of the long-running television series ''Murder, She Wrote'' starring his wife, Angela Lansbury, died last Wednesday at the couple's home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. He was 84. British-born like Ms. L
 Albert L. Hotchkin Jr., a wine merchant specializing in Burgundy whose Manhattan shop, restaurants and classes became meeting places for wine enthusiasts of all levels of expertise, died Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause of death has not yet been determ
 Larry LeSueur, the CBS correspondent who reported from the rooftops of London during the blitz of World War II, went ashore in the first waves of the D-Day invasion and made the first radio broadcast to America telling of the Allied liberation of Paris, died on Wednesday at his home in Wash
 Lord Aberconway, once a major British industrialist who built the Queen Elizabeth 2 ocean liner and who in 1939 took part in a secret meeting with Hitler's close aide Hermann Göring, died on Tuesday in London. He was 89. The meeting with seven British industrialists, aimed at avert
 Robert St. John, a journalist and prolific author who was beaten by Al Capone's thugs, wounded by Nazis in the Balkans and competed against Edward R. Murrow in London, died on Thursday at his home in suburban Maryland. He was 100. Mr. St. John, who wrote 23 books, worked for many ne
 Ernst Kitzinger, one of the 20th century's foremost historians of Byzantine, early Christian and early medieval art, died at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., on Jan. 22. He was 90. Dr. Kitzinger, who taught at Harvard for many years, was one of the last surviving members of an influe
 Dr. Harold S. Ginsberg, a microbiologist whose research provided a foundation for the field of virology and expanded knowledge of infectious diseases, died on Feb. 2 in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia. Dr. Ginsberg also headed the microbiology department
 Louis B. Schwartz, an influential legal scholar whose work helped bring about significant changes in the penal codes of many states, died on Jan. 23 in San Francisco. He was 89. In 1962, the American Law Institute, an association of judges, law professors and practicing lawyers, end
 Marcello Truzzi, a sociologist whose research interests included parapsychology, flying saucers and witchcraft, died on Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 67. The cause was cancer, a son, Kristofer, said. Dr. Truzzi, a professor, writer, magician and juggler, appr
 Vincent G. Chin, who founded one of the world's largest reggae record labels, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 65. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Randy. Mr. Chin, who was also known as Randy, was born in Kingston, Jamaica. H
 John Westergaard, a stock picker who built his career on the belief that small companies could richly reward investors who went looking for them, died on Jan. 31 at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, Emile Westergaard. In ad
 Peter McLennan, a copy editor for The New York Times for 23 years, died on Saturday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 years old. The cause, pending an autopsy, was believed to be an aneurysm, said his wife, Katherine. Mr. McLennan joined The Times in 1979 and was an edit
 Werenfried van Straaten, a Dutch priest who provided clothes, medicine and food for Germans left destitute by war and who built a Christian charity that is active worldwide today, died on Jan. 31 in a hospital in Bad Soden, Germany. He was 90. The death was announced by Aid to the C
 Ron Ziegler, President Richard M. Nixon's press secretary, died of a heart attack on Monday in his home in Coronado, Calif., his wife, Nancy, told The Associated Press. Mr. Ziegler, who was known for referring to the Watergate break-in as a ''third-rate burglary'' and for steadfastly speaki
 Ruby Braff, a jazz trumpeter and cornetist who defied the odds by rising to fame in the modern era with a resolutely old-fashioned style, died on Sunday in North Chatham, Mass. He was 75 and lived in Harwich, Mass. No cause of death was announced, but he had had lung disease for yea
 Ted Perry, the founder of Hyperion Records, a British classical music label known for exploring the byways of the repertory as devotedly as it does the core literature, died on Sunday in London. He was 71 and lived in London. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Nicola Perry
 Daniel Toscan du Plantier, a French movie producer who over the last 15 years has presided over Unifrance, the French movie promotion agency, collapsed and died of heart failure here today while attending the Berlin film festival. He was 61. With his long gray hair and military must
 Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary whose dogged defense of President Richard M. Nixon through the travails of Watergate made him the public face of a presidency struggling for survival, died of a heart attack on Monday at a hospital in Coronado, Calif., where he had a home. 
 Dr. Neville Colman, a prominent New York hematologist and forensic DNA expert as well as the founder of the West Side Soccer League, a boon for thousands of young Manhattan players, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 57 and lived in Morningside Heights. T
 Clark MacGregor, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota who led President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972 and remained unscathed by the Watergate scandal that forced Nixon's resignation two years later, died on Monday at a hospital in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 80 an
 Haywood Sullivan, a onetime journeyman catcher who became a part owner and general manager of the Boston Red Sox in the franchise's turbulent years after the death in 1976 of the longtime owner Tom Yawkey, died Wednesday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 72. Sullivan, who lived in Naples, 
 Kemmons Wilson -- who was so angered by the shabby lodgings he encountered on a family vacation in 1951 that he vowed to start a motel chain, a decision that led to Holiday Inn -- died on Wednesday at his home in Memphis. He was 90. In his 1993 book ''The Fifties,'' David Halberstam
 Johnny Longden, the British-born jockey who rode 6,032 winners in a racing career that covered nearly 40 years, including a sweep of the 1943 Triple Crown aboard Count Fleet, died yesterday in Banning, Calif. It was his 96th birthday. He had been in failing health for several years 
 Kid Gavilan, who came out of the Cuban sugar fields to become the world welterweight champion of the early 1950's, displaying a flashy style that featured his signature bolo punch, died Thursday at a hospital in Miami. He was 77. Gavilan, who lived in Hialeah, Fla., had a heart atta
 Walt W. Rostow, an economic historian who became one of the principal architects and passionate defenders of the Vietnam War as an adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Thursday night at a hospital in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 86. The son of
 Dr. Landrum B. Shettles, an early developer of in vitro fertilization techniques who gained national attention as the author of ''How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby'' and as a central figure in a lawsuit over efforts to produce the first ''test tube baby,'' died on Feb. 6 in St. Petersburg,
 James Thomas Flexner, a prolific and graceful writer on subjects from American art to steamboats to medicine, who achieved his greatest fame for prize-winning biographies of George Washington, died on Thursday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 95. He wrote a four-volume biography o
 Rudy Sablo, a leading athlete, coach and administrator in American weight lifting and other sports for more than 60 years, died Feb. 4 in his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Competing at 170 pounds, Sablo lifted 335 pounds in the clean and jerk and 270 pounds in the snatch. His liftin
 Walter L. Pforzheimer, one of the founding fathers of the Central Intelligence Agency and the creator of its historical archives, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 88. Mr. Pforzheimer was one of a small number of men who started working for the intelligence agency at 
 David E. Feller, a lawyer and law professor who researched and argued important civil rights and labor cases, including more than a dozen that went to the Supreme Court, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. In the 1950's, Mr. Feller was on a pane
 George E. Freestone, who joined the Boy Scouts when the organization was just starting in America and who was still active 92 years later, died on Feb. 8 in Mesa, Ariz. He was 104. Mr. Freestone was the nation's oldest known living scout, said Brandi Mantz, a spokeswoman for the Boy
 Lee S. Kreindler, who is considered the founder of air disaster law, and whose law firm, Kreindler & Kreindler, represented plaintiffs in almost every major aircraft disaster in the last half-century, died yesterday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. . The caus
 Dr. Paul Meehl, a University of Minnesota psychologist whose writings on research methodology, mental illness and other topics influenced generations of researchers and psychotherapists, died on Friday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 83. The cause was chronic myelomonocytic leuke
 Jim Gordon, who broadcast Giants, Rangers and Knicks games on radio and television for almost 40 years, died at his home in Putnam Valley, N.Y., on Sunday, the day after his 76th birthday. The cause was cancer, his wife, Jeanne, said. Mr. Gordon's career began in local radio
 Johnny Paycheck, one of the most influential country singers of the last 40 years and yet for stretches of his career a Nashville pariah who became more famous for what he did spectacularly wrong than what he did right, died yesterday at 64. The cause was respiratory failure, and Mr
 Richard Orme Wilberforce, a retired member of Britain's highest court and keeper of his family's antislavery tradition, died on Saturday at a hospital in London. He was 95. He was a prominent judge in postwar Britain, known for handling both criminal and civil matters with a keen in
 Benyoussef Ben Khedda, an Algerian nationalist leader who announced his country's negotiated independence from France on July 3, 1962, but was quickly swept from power by the revolutionary forces he had helped unleash, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Algiers. He was 82. Mr. Ben Khedda
 Jack Brodsky, who combined a career as a marketing and publicity executive at a half-dozen movie studios with a second career as a movie producer, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Sherak, a former head of distribution at F
 Harry Jacunski, a member of the Fordham football team's line known as the Seven Blocks of Granite, died Thursday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford of congestive heart failure. He was 87. The nickname was originally applied to Fordham linemen during the 1929-30 seasons and reviv
 Julian Bigelow, a mathematician and electrical engineer who was a pioneer in the fields of cybernetics and computing, died on Monday in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 89. In 1946, when John von Neumann set out to design and build a stored- program computer at the Institute 
 Orville L. Freeman, who as secretary of agriculture under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson aggressively promoted food assistance for poor people and exports of American farm goods, died on Thursday in Minneapolis. He was 84. Mr. Freeman, the governor of Minnesota fro
 Dr. Elliott S. Shapiro, an educator and psychologist whose fight against public school squalor and bureaucratic lethargy drew wide attention in the 1960's, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Shapiro, a veteran of the tumult over racial integration and the decentralization o
 Dr. Luke C. L. Yuan, an experimental physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory, a science educator and a benefactor of a Chinese museum honoring his wife, Dr. Chien-Shiung Wu, a noted physicist, died on Feb. 11 in Beijing. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Yuan had fallen ill 
 Rusty Magee, a composer and lyricist for the theater and a cabaret artist, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 47 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in Shawnee-on-Delaware, Pa. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Alison Fraser, an actress. Among Mr. Mag
 Daniel Aaron, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an orphan who went on to become a founder of Comcast, the largest cable company in the country, died last Thursday in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 77. The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to the company. In 1963, 
 Fred Hudson, the president and artistic director of the Frederick Douglass Creative Arts Center, which has nurtured three generations of African-American writers, actors and playwrights, died on Feb. 13 at his Manhattan home. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said Yvonne Hudso
 George de Kay, who fostered the early careers of best-selling novelists and issued popular nonfiction as the president of one of New York's last independent publishing houses, M. Evans & Co., died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. de Kay, who also lived in Stonington, Conn., was 76.
 Quentin Anderson, a literary critic, cultural historian and Columbia professor emeritus of American literature, died Tuesday at his home in Morningside Heights. He was 90. He wrote, most notably, ''The American Henry James'' (1957), a critique of the novelist's work, and ''The Imper
 Robert K. Merton, one of the most influential sociologists of the 20th century, whose coinage of terms like ''self-fulfilling prophecy'' and ''role models'' filtered from his academic pursuits into everyday language, died yesterday. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Merton gaine
 Louis LaRusso II, a prolific playwright whose characters often relived the tribulations of the working people among whom he lived, died on Saturday in Jersey City. He was 67 and lived in Hoboken. The cause was bladder cancer. He described the diagnosis and spread of his cancer in an
 Thomas Joseph Leonard, a former financial planner who founded virtual boot camps for personal and business coaches worldwide, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Phoenix. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, said David R. Buck, his partner in one of the camps, CoachVille, which is ba
 Arthur Hauspurg, a former chairman of Consolidated Edison Inc., died last Wednesday while attending a family reunion in Barbados. He was 77 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mr. Hauspurg became known to the New York public in 1966 when he was on the federal commission that investigated the cau
 Fred Russell, a sportswriter and longtime sports editor of The Nashville Banner who also compiled ''Pigskin Preview,'' for years an annual feature in The Saturday Evening Post, died on Jan. 26 in Nashville. He was 96. Mr. Russell, who grew up in Nashville and graduated from Vanderbi
 Tom Glazer, a folk singer and songwriter best known for his whimsical children's songs -- particularly one about a mountain of spaghetti -- died on Friday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 88. Along with Leadbelly, Woody Guthrie, Josh White and Burl Ives, Mr. Glazer was a Big City
 Christopher Hill, a leading Marxist historian of 17th-century England who helped illuminate the radical tradition of that revolutionary period, died on Monday. He was 91. His death was announced yesterday by Oxford University, where he was master of Balliol College from 1965 to 1978
 Vincent G. Liff, a prolific casting director who assembled the talent for some of Broadway's biggest hits, died on Tuesday at his home at Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was brain cancer, said Scott Rudin, a producer who was a friend and former employee. Working with his bus
 Albert R. Hibbs, a veteran space scientist who helped build the United States' first Earth orbiter then was the popular voice of NASA missions to the planets, died on Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications after heart surgery, according to the Jet Propulsi
 John Lanchbery, one of the dance world's most successful and sought-after conductors and arrangers of ballet scores, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Melbourne, Australia. He was 79 and lived in Melbourne. The cause was cancer, said Kelly Ryan, a spokeswoman for American Ballet Th
 Fred Rogers, the thoughtful television neighbor whose songs, stories and heart-to-heart talks taught generations of children how to get along in the world, died yesterday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 74. The cause was stomach cancer, said David Newell, a family spokesman who al
