 Mahanambrata Brahmachari, a soft-spoken Hindu scholar who offered early and important intellectual encouragement to the Roman Catholic monk and writer Thomas Merton, died in Calcutta on Oct. 18. He was 95. Although Dr. Brahmachari lived most of his life in his native Bengal, he enjo
 Max Patkin, who made more consecutive appearances on the diamond than Cal Ripken and was thrown out of more games than Earl Weaver in half a century of slapstick as the Clown Prince of Baseball, died Saturday at a hospital in Paoli, Pa. Patkin, who lived in Exton, Pa., was 79. The c
 Victor Van Bourg, who has been called the West Coast king of union-side labor law, died on Tuesday at San Francisco International Airport. He was 68 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was apparently a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. He had flown from Washington, D.
 William Wilson, an editor and a co-author of ''An Incomplete Education,'' a general reference book addressed to college graduates who felt their education was inadequate, died at his home in Greenwich Village on Oct. 18. He was 51. The cause of death was H.I.V.-related illness, said
 Lord Jakobovits, outspoken former chief rabbi of Britain whose views on individual responsibility endeared him to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died on Sunday morning at his home here. He was 78. He died of a brain hemorrhage, the family said. As head of an organization 
 Richard B. Tullis, who guided the Harris Corporation from a small printing press company to an electronic communications equipment giant, died on Sunday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla., the company said. He was 86. Although Mr. Harris's early career predated the computer revolution 
 Savumiamoorthy Thondaman, a Sri Lankan trade unionist and political figure who was a leader of the minority Tamils of Indian origin, died on Saturday in a hospital in the Colombo area. He was reported to be 86 or 87. The cause was heart failure, said a Sri Lankan legislator, The Ass
 Walter Payton, the Chicago Bears' running back whose single-minded aggressiveness and singular combination of power and speed made him the leading ground gainer in pro football history, died yesterday at his home in Barrington, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 45. The cause was bile d
 Alan Heimert, a longtime Harvard professor whose scholarship about 18th-century America was influential and controversial, died on Monday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Winchester, Mass. Professor Heimert had cardiovascular problems, said his son, Andrew, whom the professor a
 Hilary Tjader Harris, an experimental and documentary filmmaker and kinetic sculptor, died on Oct. 26  at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was kidney failure, said David Hollister, a friend and collaborator, adding that Mr. Harris had contracted an undia
 Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a visionary Texas real estate developer and civic leader whose 30 commercial buildings form much of the Houston skyline, died on Monday after a six-month battle with lung cancer. He was 70. Casting out on his own after a stint as salesman for his family's Magno
 Ian Bannen, who scored a film triumph late in his career as a charming con man in the 1998 hit comedy ''Waking Ned Devine,'' died yesterday in a car crash in his native Scotland. He was 71. The accident occurred near Loch Ness while Mr. Bannen was taking a short break from his lates
 Dr. Johannes van Paradijs, whose observations of the most powerful explosions in the cosmos led to an understanding of their nature, died Tuesday in Amsterdam. He was 53. The cause was cancer, said Dr. Edward van den Heuvel, a colleague and friend. An unusual scientist in an
 Robert D. Van Kampen, a millionaire investor who built one of the world's largest private collections of biblical manuscripts and early printed Bibles, died on Friday at Loyola University Medical Center outside of Chicago while awaiting a heart transplant. He was 60. Mr. Van Kampen,
 Frederick Brockway Gleason Jr., 91, a retired business executive, died on Tuesday at his home in Portland, Me. A former New Yorker, he had lived in Maine since 1971. Mr. Gleason retired in 1960 after six years as treasurer of Vermouth Industries of America. Previously he was with th
 Zvi Griliches, who spent part of his youth hiding from the Nazis in his native Lithuania, survived Dachau, taught himself English in seven months at a British internment camp and went on to become one of the world's leading authorities on the statistical analysis of economic data, died yest
 John W. Evans, an astrophysicist who was the first director of the National Solar Observatory in Sunspot, N.M., and his wife, Betty, died on Sunday at their home in a suburb of Santa Fe, N.M., in what the local police described as an apparent murder-suicide. Dr. Evans was 90 and his wife wa
 Keizo Saji, the chairman of Suntory Ltd., one of the world's largest alcoholic beverage companies, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Osaka, Japan. He was 80. The cause of death was pneumonia, according to a report in The Asahi Evening News. Mr. Saji, as president of Suntory
 Malcolm Marshall, who despite his small stature became one of cricket's greatest fast bowlers, died Thursday at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in his hometown, Bridgetown, Barbados. He was 41. The cause was given as colon cancer. He had received the diagnosis in May during cricket's most 
 Walter Francis Skees, who as the United States Army's chief vocalist sang for seven presidents and millions of people around the world, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Skees, who was with th
 Demetrio B. Lakas, president of Panama from 1972 to 1978 during the government of Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Panama City. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Lakas was an engineer who was popula
 Demetrio B. Lakas, president of Panama from 1972 to 1978 during the government of Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Panama City. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Lakas was an engineer who was popula
 Karl M. Waage, a paleontologist and former director of the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale University, died on Oct. 18 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 83. Apart from running the museum and helping to train a generation of geologists and paleontologists in 
 Robert L. Schiffer, who was a speechwriter for United States delegates to the United Nations, including Adlai E. Stevenson and Arthur J. Goldberg, and who was also an international affairs consultant and an author, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City. He
 Judge Charles G. Sweet, who helped supervise the trials of several of the nine people charged in the killing of the labor leader Joseph A. Yablonski and his wife and daughter 30 years ago, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Tampa, Fla. He was 81. Judge Sweet, who had been living f
 Colin Rowe, a historian and teacher whose ideas helped to shape the thinking of some of today's most prominent American architects, died on Friday in Arlington, Va. He was 79. The cause was respiratory failure after a stroke suffered in May, said Judy DiMaio, a friend. Mr. R
 George V. Higgins, a crime novelist best known for his first published work, the best seller ''Friends of Eddie Coyle,'' was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59. He apparently died of natural causes, The Associated Press reported. The writing skills that Mr
 John Hadfield, an editor of literary anthologies and the author of ''Love on a Branch Line,'' a fanciful tale of British rural life in 1950's East Anglia that became a successful television series, died the last week of October, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. He was 92 and lived in
 Primo Nebiolo, a powerful and controversial figure in international sports who brought track and field out of the amateur ranks as president of its world governing body for almost two decades, died yesterday at a hospital in Rome. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, according t
 William Malcolm Goodhart, whose first effort at play writing became a Broadway hit, died on Oct. 20 at his home on Shelter Island, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Goodhart achieved the dream of every aspiring playwright when his comedy, ''Generation
 George V. Higgins, who turned a prosecutor's knowledge of lowlife crooks into gritty Boston crime novels that unfolded in the gamy dialect of the city's hoodlums and cops, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59. The police said he appeared to have died of 
 John A. Puelicher, retired chairman of the board of the Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, a bank holding company, died on Oct. 30 at his home in Milwaukee. He was 78. The cause of death was liver cancer, said a company spokesman, M. A. Hatfield. Mr. Puelicher, who was known as 
 John G. Bonomi, a lawyer who investigated the role of organized crime in professional boxing and later successfully sought the disbarment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Saturday at his home in Irvington, N.Y. He was 76. As an assistant district attorney in Manhattan from 195
 Leon Stukelj of Slovenia, a gymnast who was born only two years after the first modern Olympics and became the oldest living Olympic gold medalist, died yesterday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He was four days short of his 101st birthday. Stukelj (pronounced SHTOO-kel) competed in three O
 Richard Martin, who infused the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art with his deep knowledge of popular culture and art history, died yesterday at his apartment in New York. He was 52. The cause was melanoma, said Dr. Richard Slusarczyk, his companion. Mr. Mar
 Haskel Frankel, a prolific author and theater critic, died last Wednesday in Chester, Conn. He was 73. Mr. Frankel, who had suffered several strokes over the last decade, died after a short illness, said his nephew, Seth Wolk. A theater buff who pursued acting early in life,
 G. McMurtrie Godley, a United States ambassador to Laos during the Vietnam War who played a central role in American efforts to defeat Communist forces there, died on Sunday in Fox Hospital in Oneonta, N.Y. He was 82. His position in Laos, from 1969 to 1973, hampered his diplomatic 
 Theodore Alvin Hall, who was the youngest physicist to work on the atomic bomb project at Los Alamos during World War II and was later identified as a Soviet spy, died on Nov. 1 in Cambridge, England, where he had become a leading, if diffident, pioneer in biological research. He was 74.   
 David Schickele, a film director and musician, died on Oct. 31 at his home in San Francisco. He was 62. The cause was was brain cancer, said his brother, the composer and musical humorist Peter Schickele. Mr. Schickele was born in Ames, Iowa, in March 1937 and grew up in Far
 Joseph DiMona, a professional author and screen and stage writer who collaborated on the Watergate memoir of the imprisoned former White House chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76. He had been battling liver cancer for two years, sai
 The trumpeter, band leader and composer Lester Bowie, an icon of the experimental movement in jazz from the mid-1960's on who was also known for his comic shows and jazz-based treatments of pop music, died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn.  He was 58. The cause was liver cancer, sa
 Biagio DiLieto, a former New Haven mayor and police chief who helped breathe new life into the city during his 10 years in office, died Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76. The cause was cancer, a funeral home spokesman said. Yesterday, Mr. DiLieto, a Democrat w
 Felix Galimir, a violinist who was one of the last links to the vital musical world of prewar Vienna, and a chamber music player who was revered by several generations of instrumentalists as a demanding and inspiring coach, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 and had conti
 Jacobo Timerman, the distinguished Argentine journalist whose imprisonment and torture by his country's military forces in the 1970's created an international human rights furor, died yesterday at his home in Buenos Aires. He was 76. The cause of death was a heart attack, his second
 Lauson Harvey Stone, a lawyer and civic leader who was assigned by the War Department to be a defense lawyer for eight Nazi saboteurs who were tried in Washington in 1942, died on Sunday at a Brooklyn hospital. He was 94 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Stone, a son of Harlan Fiske Stone,
 Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt, the elegant symbol of the sportsman in high society when he was the impresario of horse racing and the pillar of one of the most aristocratic families in America, died yesterday at his home in Mill Neck, N.Y. He was 87. He was born in London and educated at
 Robert Kramer, an American movie director whose portrayals of militants caught up in the antiwar movement of the late 1960's and early 1970's earned him a prominent place in modern political cinema, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Rouen, France, at the age of 60. Friends gave the cause o
 Aaron F. Goldstein, a former New York State Supreme Court justice and a former state assemblyman from Brooklyn, died Oct. 27 at a hospital in Westwood, Calif. He was 90. Justice Goldstein, who lived much of his life in Brooklyn and Queens but spent his later years in retirement in H
 Jacob Glick, a violist admired for his championship of new music and his performances on the Baroque viola d'amore, died on Nov. 1 at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington. He was 73 and lived in New York and Bennington. Deborah Borda, the executive director of the N
 Richard Marius, a scholar of the Reformation, novelist and speechwriter who ran the Harvard Expository Writing Program for 16 years, died Nov. 5 at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 66. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lanier Smythe. Dr. Marius's scholarly wor
 Sir Vivian Fuchs, the British leader of an international expedition that in 1957 and 1958 made the first surface crossing of Antarctica -- a journey then regarded as the last great challenge of exploration -- died on Thursday in his home in Cambridge, England, his family said Friday. He was
 Alberto Bolet, a cosmopolitan, Cuban-born orchestra conductor, died on Wednesday while visiting his daughter in Teaneck, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Long Beach, Calif. Mr. Bolet was an energetic champion of Cuban and other Latin American music. In an interview in 1956 in Havana, bef
 Daniel Margolies, a lawyer with a long career in public service, including membership in the team of American prosecutors at the war-crimes trials in Nuremberg after World War II, died Nov. 6 at a hospital in Aurora, Colo., a suburb of Denver. He was 89. Partly because of the fluent
 Donald Mills, the last surviving member of the singing group the Mills Brothers, whose serene harmony and playful wit in songs like ''Up a Lazy River'' and ''Glow Worm'' entertained audiences over six decades, died Saturday. He was 84. Mr. Mills had been performing as recently as Ap
 Eric Neisser, a civil liberties lawyer who was the dean of Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., and the former acting dean at Rutgers School of Law in Newark, died last Monday at a hospital in Concord. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said Irene O'Brien, a spokeswoma
 Jack Hooke, who managed some of the biggest names in jazz, rock 'n' roll and Latin music during 51 years  in entertainment, died on Saturday at North Shore University Medical Center in Queens. He lived in Bayside, Queens, and was 83. At the time of his death, Mr. Hooke was with RMM 
 The way his widow tells it, Max Hunter realized early in his travels as a salesman in Missouri that the hill people of the Ozarks had songs, stories and expressions that were uniquely theirs. And so he decided to collect as many as he could before they vanished into time. Mr. Hunter
 Rabbi Jeshaia Schnitzer, a pioneer in integrating Jewish pastoral care and family therapy, died on Thursday while staying at his daughter's home in Manchester, Conn. He was 81 and lived in Montclair, N.J. The cause was cancer, said Rabbi Michael Monson, the present rabbi of the the 
 Robert C. Belloni, a former chief judge of the United States District Court for Oregon who upheld American Indian fishing rights in the Pacific Northwest, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 80 and formerly lived in Portland. Mr. Belloni was appointed to 
 The Rev. Dr. Thaddeus A. Garrett Jr., an Ohio minister in the A.M.E. Zion Church who became a Republican adviser on national urban and racial affairs, died on Monday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 51. The cause was kidney failure, said Wesley Te
 Col. John Paul Stapp, an Air Force medical researcher who rode a rocket-powered sled at a speed faster than a .45-caliber bullet in an experiment to test the limits of human endurance, died on Saturday at his home in Alamogordo, N.M. He was 89. Dr. Stapp was known as the ''fastest m
 Brig. Gen. Austin Conner Shofner, the marine who got word to the outside world of the infamous Bataan Death March of 1942 after he engineered the first and only successful American team escape from a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Sunday at his home in Shelbyville, Tenn. He was 83. 
 Frank MacShane, a literary biographer who specialized in applying the highest standards of criticism to popular novelists like Raymond Chandler and John O'Hara who had been ignored by other academic critics, died on Monday at a nursing home in Gloucester, Mass. He was 72. Dr. MacSha
 Benjamin Schwartz, one of the first scholars to show that Mao Zedong developed his own brand of Communism beyond Soviet control and a professor emeritus of history and political science at Harvard University, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82. Althou
 Dr. Daniel Nathans, a Nobel Prize-winning geneticist who pioneered the use of scalpels in analyzing DNA, a technique that helped create the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 71 and had taught at Johns Hopkins University for 37 years. The cause 
 Horst P. Horst, a master of light and deep shadow whose photographs of fashion and fashionable creatures like Coco Chanel, Marlene Dietrich and Noel Coward evoked the glamorous 1930's as well as his own chic circle in Paris, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 93. 
 John G. Malino, an executive with the Loews Corporation in New York who oversaw all its real estate activities, died Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 60. He died of complications from heart surgery performed last month, said Candace Leeds, a spokeswoman for Loews. M
 LaNoue Davenport, a pioneering figure in the revival of early music and period instruments and a former leader of the acclaimed ensemble New York Pro Musica and the American Recorder Society, died on Nov. 4 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 77 and had been suffering from em
 Paul Bowles, the novelist, composer, poet and quintessential outsider of American literature, died of a heart attack yesterday in a hospital in Tangier, Morocco. He was 88, and throughout his extraordinary career evoked a world of dark Moroccan streets and scorching deserts, a haze of hashi
 Dr. Alfred Hassig, who was convicted last year of letting H.I.V.-infected blood be distributed to hemophiliacs in Switzerland, died here on Sunday. He was 78. Dr. Hassig presided over an inglorious chapter in public medicine as director of the Swiss Red Cross blood-transfusion servi
 Arnolds Sturms, a New York-based composer, flutist and music critic, died on Nov. 7 at the Isabella Geriatric Center in Washington Heights. He was 87. He was born in Dobele, Latvia, and graduated with honors from the State Conservatory of Music in Riga. He later played with the Latv
 David Shaber, a producer and writer for the screen and stage, died on Nov. 4 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and had homes in Manhattan and Roxbury, Conn. The cause was an aneurysm, said his wife, Alice. Mr. Shaber wrote 40 commissioned screenplays, 8 of whic
 Eugene J. Bockman, a longtime archivist and librarian for the City of New York, died on Nov. 8 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. He had Parkinson's disease and had suffered a stroke, said his wife, Miriam. Mr. Bockman rescued some of the original 
 Hank Messick, an author and investigative journalist who wrote extensively about organized crime, died on Nov. 6 at his home in Cocoa, Fla., after a long illness. He was 77 and suffered from Sjogren's syndrome, an autoimmune disease, said his wife, Faye. Mr. Messick wrote 19
 Minos Volanakis, a translator and director who specialized in ancient Greek plays, died on Sunday in Athens, where he lived. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Early on Mr. Volanakis distinguished himself with his translations of Jean Gen
 Amintore Fanfani, who was prime minister of Italy six times and President of the United Nations General Assembly in the 1960's, died today after a long illness. He was 91. Mr. Fanfani, a senator for life, had returned home this morning after a month's hospitalization for treatment o
 Charles E. Odegaard, who was president of the University of Washington during years when it expanded greatly, and was a nationally prominent expert on education in the health sciences, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Seattle. He was 88. Dr. Odegaard, whose doctorate was in medieval h
 Elliott M. Sanger Jr., a news producer for WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times, and a corporate relations executive for The New York Times Company, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Joan Sanger.   
 H. Clay Earles, who 53 years ago carved a hardscrabble racetrack out of the red clay of southern Virginia and then painstakingly turned it into a cash-spewing shrine to the cult of the stock car, died Tuesday at his home in Martinsville, Va. He was 86. Earles's Martinsville Speedway
 Peter Wildeblood, a former journalist and television producer whose personal war against British law helped lead to the decriminalization of homosexuality in 1967, died on Nov. 13 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 76. The cause of death was complications resulting from a paraly
 Doug Sahm, a patriarch of Texas rock and country music, was found dead on Thursday in Taos, N.M., The Associated Press reported. He was 58 and lived in Austin. A Taos police spokesman said he appeared to have died of natural causes. An autopsy was ordered. Mr. Sahm had been 
 Faubion Bowers, an American linguist, critic and writer on the arts who helped preserve Kabuki, the popular drama of Japan, when occupation authorities sought to ban it as a relic of a feudal society after World War II, died on Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 82. The cause was
 John D. Le Vien, a documentary film producer nominated for two Oscars, died on Nov. 9 at a hospital in London, where he had lived for the last 30 years. He was 81. Mr. Le Vien was also executive producer of ''Black Fox,'' a 90-minute film about Hitler that was narrated by Marlene Di
 Quentin Crisp, the British-born writer, raconteur and actor who found fame at 59 when he published ''The Naked Civil Servant,'' an account of his openly homosexual life in London, and who found happiness when he moved to New York at 72, died yesterday in Manchester, England. He was 90.     
 William E. Nickerson, who made millions of dollars from real estate investments and millions more writing books telling others how to do the same thing, died on Oct. 19 at his home in Capitola, Calif. He was 91. Reflecting his strong religious beliefs as a lifelong Congregationalist
 Dr. Alvin D. Coox, a former professor of Asian studies at San Diego State University who called attention to the importance of an obscure but critical military campaign in World War II, died on Nov. 4 in a hospice in San Diego. He was 75. Dr. Coox (pronounced cooks) died after a lon
 Frank E. Taylor, a longtime book publisher who was editor in chief and general manager of the McGraw Hill Book Company's trade-book division and publisher of Avon Books for the Hearst Corporation, died on Nov. 16 at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Taylor, who also worked i
 Howard Ferguson, a British musician internationally known for his editions of early keyboard music and of Schubert's complete piano works, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 91. Mr. Ferguson was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and trained in London, where he
 Serge Lang, a French sportswriter who helped create skiing's biggest and most successful tour, the World Cup, died Sunday in Sternenberg, in the Alsace region of France. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the United States Ski and Snowboard Asso
 Flavio Rodriguez da Costa, the Brazilian soccer coach whose 23-year professional career was overshadowed by his national team's loss to underdog Uruguay in the 1950 World Cup final, died on Monday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 93. Da Costa, a native of Rio, began his socce
 Gene Levitt, a television writer, director and producer who created ''Fantasy Island,'' a popular show in the late 1970's, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Diana. Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1920, Mr. Levitt
 John Benson Brooks, a jazz composer, arranger and songwriter, died on Nov. 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. An early composition, ''Just as Though You Were Here'' (1942), with lyrics by Eddie DeLange, brought Mr. Brooks prominence. The song was recorded by Tommy Dorsey's band
 Rear Adm. Walter Chilcott Ford, a destroyer commander in World War II and the executive director of the newborn Central Intelligence Agency in the later 1940's, died on Saturday at the Mariner Health facility in Bethesda, Md. He lived in Annapolis and would have turned 96 this week.        
 Wallace R. Persons, who in nearly 20 years as chief executive, expanded the Emerson Electric Company from a small regional appliance maker into a diversified industrial manufacturer, died on Sunday in St. Louis, the company said. He was 90. Mr. Persons, who was known as Buck, joined
 Bernard Klatzko, a researcher, author and record producer specializing in acoustic blues and early jazz, died on Nov. 15 at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was complications following lymphoma, said Barbara Dolan, a friend. In the mid-1960's Mr. 
 Charles V. Schaefer Jr., a New Jersey businessman who became a major benefactor of Stevens Institute of Technology and chairman of its board, died on Nov. 18 at the North Ridge Medical Center in Oakland Park, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Saddle River, N.J. Mr. Schaefer was born in Br
 John G. Stewart, former manager of The New York Times Book Division, died on Tuesday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 80. He had a brief illness, his wife, Linda, said. Mr. Stewart was born in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., grew up there, graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and
 Lee C. Shaw, who helped draw much of the road map for modern labor law and then used it to help corporations negotiate with unions, died of a heart attack on Nov. 15 at his home in San Diego. He was 86. Mr. Shaw helped draft the nation's guide to employer-employee negotiations, the 
 Stanley Frankel, a journalist, corporate executive and speechwriter for Democratic presidential candidates, including Adlai E. Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy, Hubert H. Humphrey, George McGovern and Walter F. Mondale, died on Nov. 12 in a New York City hospital. He was 80. Mr. Frankel
 Ernest Leonard Signorelli, a maverick Republican who served Suffolk County as a judge for 35 years before retiring as its surrogate in 1995, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Center Moriches, N.Y. He was 75 and most recently lived in Manorville, N.Y., and St. Petersburg, Fla. He
 George Arthur Stinson, who managed two highly successful careers as a tax lawyer on Wall Street and as a steel magnate in Pittsburgh, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Tryon, N.C., where he had retired in 1983. He was 84. The cause was complications from cancer, his family said.       
 Bishop George Papaioannou of New Jersey, who became the first married priest to be elevated to the rank of bishop in the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, died on Monday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 66. The cause was a stroke, the archdiocese said. Bishop George collap
 Calvin Dodd MacCracken, an inventor and founder of his own creative engineering firm in Englewood, N.J., died Nov. 10 at Kendall at Hanover, a retirement community in New Hampshire. A former resident of Englewood, he was 79 and lived in Hanover and West Cornwall, Conn. The cause was
 Louis Wilson Menk, a railroad entrepreneur who wove three medium-size companies into the much larger Burlington Northern, then went to the rescue of a faltering industrial giant, International Harvester, died Tuesday at his home in Carefree, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix. He was 81. Th
 HE looks devastated. But then Ralph Fiennes always looks as if he is caught between deep melancholy and outright despair. It must be something about the roles he takes, or the way his mouth turns down at the corners, because his demeanor, while not exactly jaunty, is certainly sporting. Tol
 Ashley Montagu, the London-born anthropologist and popular author whose energy, erudition and showmanship brought genetics, paleontology and other topics in the life sciences to a wide American audience, died on Friday in Princeton, N.J. He was 94. The author of more than 60 books, 
 Stephen Greene, an abstract painter who whose sensuous brushwork and half-buried symbols synthesized elements of several postwar movements into a distinctive style, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y., where he had lived for more than 40 years. He was 82. Throughout 
 Alain Peyrefitte, a French journalist, best-selling author, former cabinet minister and confidant of de Gaulle, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said the staff of Le Figaro, the conservative daily paper where he was editorial director. A member of 
 John J. Barrett, a Manhattan lawyer and former chairman of the New York Urban League, died on Friday  at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Barrett, a specialist in trusts and estates law, practiced in Manhattan for 71 years, most rece
 Robert Bingham, the author of a collection of short stories and a member of the prominent Kentucky newspaper publishing family, died Sunday at his home in TriBeCa in Manhattan. He was 33. The cause of death is under investigation, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the Office of
