 Donald J. Olsen, a historian of urban architecture and professor emeritus of history at Vassar College, died on May 19 at his home in Seattle. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said the office of Lawrence Hard, his lawyer in Seattle. Dr. Olsen retired in 1994 as Elois
 Louis Liotta, a respected photographer who worked at The New York Post for half a century, died on Friday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 76 and lived in Bath Beach, Brooklyn, where he was born. The cause was kidney failure, his newspaper colleagues said. Mr. 
 LEHMANN-Manfred, Dr. Ohr Torah Institutions Of Israel records with sorrow the passing of Dr. Manfred Lehman. Scholarly intellectual of Judaic texts and passionate champion of his peoples rights to their homeland. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. S
 MISHKIN-Robert. Born on June 17, 1916, died May 30, 1997. Beloved husband of Sylvia and father of Marc. Adored uncle of Ruby, to three generations of nieces and nephews. Practicing attorney for 45 years and vice president of Kravet Fabrics Inc. Youngest and last of six brothers, sons of Max
 O'BRIEN-Royall D. On May 30, 1997 at age 70. Beloved husband of Sally, loving father of Morgan Coffey and Sarah Tierney. He is also survived by eight grandchildren, his mother Isabel B. O'Brien and a brother Peter B. O'Brien. His humor and warm heart will be deeply missed. In lieu of flower
 SCHNEER-Henry I., M.D. September 16, 1916 to May 29, 1997. We deeply mourn the passing of Henry I. Schneer. Dr. Schneer was Professor of Psychiatry at Downstate Medical Center and Nassau County Medical Center; President of the New York State Psychiatric Association; a lifetime member and Fe
 STREIBERT-Elizabeth T. The Board and staff of the Stanley Isaacs Neighborhood center extend our heartfelt condolences to board member Marshall Streibert, over the loss of his beloved wife Elizabeth. Doris C. Halaby, Chairman Anne H Lindgren, President Wanda Wooten, Exec Director       
 TOLK-Archie. On May 28, 1997. Survived by his many friends. Funeral service on Monday, June 2, at 12:00 noon, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.       
 VOGEL-Helen. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Helen Vogel, beloved mother of our friend and colleague, James M. Vogel, M.D., Attending Physician in the Department of Medicine and former Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff at
 Sydney Guilaroff, who gave Claudette Colbert her bangs, made Lucille Ball a redhead, gave Judy Garland her ''Wizard of Oz'' braids and cut, curled, coiffed and cosseted virtually every other MGM star in a 40-year reign as Hollywood's most creative and celebrated hairdresser, died on Wednesd
 BERNSTEIN-Sidney. Dear Stella, Mark, Arlene, Dick, Sonny, David, Pat, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Strong and steady, it seemed as if he would always be with you. Your wonderful memories of his warmth and charm will remain with you forever. We share your sorrow. Susan, Fred, Stepha
 LEHMANN-Dr. Manfred. The American Academic Alliance for Israel mourns the irreparable loss of its founding member and President, Dr. Manfred Lehmann. He dedicated his life to the welfare and security of Jewish people everywhere, and to his eternal Israel. He used his vast scholarship and ph
 NATHANSON-Morton, M.D. With profound sorrow we mark the death of Morton Nathanson, M.D., Chairman Emeritus of our hospital's Department of Neurology from 1984 to the present and its Chairman from 1972 to 1984. He was the founder of the Neurology Service at LIJ and through his dedicated effo
 PRIETO-Michael, Esq. On May 22, 1997, of New York City. Beloved son of Jose and Teresa Prieto, dear brother of Raquel T. Prieto and Jose Prieto, Jr. He was an attorney for civil and criminal cases. He earned his BA degree at George Washington College in 1984 and received Jurisprudence in 19
 Robert Serber, a theoretical physicist who was the intellectual midwife at the birth of the atomic bomb and helped shape particle physics research for decades, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was complications following surgery fo
 Theodore Dreier, an engineer and educator who was a founder of the legendary Black Mountain College, died on May 7 at Jefferson County Hospital in Fairfield, Iowa. He was 94 and lived in Fairfield. In 1933, Mr. Dreier and John Andrew Rice, both professors at Rollins College in Winte
 Doc Cheatham, a lyrical, elegant trumpet player whose career blossomed when he was in his 70's and who then became one of the jazz's best known stars, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. Mr. Cheatham, who would have turned 92 on June 13, lived in Manhattan
 ADLER-Kurt A. M.D. Ph.D The Department of Psychiatry expresses its profound sadness on the death of its esteemed member, Kurt A. Adler, MD, Ph.D. Dr. Adler was Emeritius Associate Psychiatrist on the voluntary medical staff of Lenox Hill Hospital and ably served this institution since 1947.
 BRINDELL-Harold. Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of the Hazzan of West Surburban Temple Har Zion of River Forest, IL for more than four decades. He served the spiritual needs of his congregants with great dignity, warmth and care. We extend our deepest sympathy 
 BRUNDAGE-Howard Denton, an investment advisor and Senior Vice President with Smith Barney Capital Management in Old Lyme, died at his home in Lyme, CT on May 31. He was 73 years old. Mr. Brundage was born in Newark, New Jersey on November 9, 1923 to Salome Louise Denton and Edgar Ray Brunda
 KARR-N. A. (Nathaniel), 91, of Manhattan, died June 2nd, after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Midge Karr, artist. Beloved brother, uncle and friend. Graduate NYU Law School; Chairman Emeritus NY Institute of Technology; founder of EXECUTONE Inc. and its worldwide distributorshi
 LEHMANN-Dr. Manfred R. BarIlan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of its honorary alumnus and distinguished member of our Global Board of Trustees, Dr. Manfred R. Lehmann, and extend its most profound condolences to his beloved wife Sara Anne and the entire fami
 NATHANSON-Morton Dr. Died early June 1 after a brief illness at age 79. Dr. Nathanson was the founder and Chairman of the Department of Neurology at LIJ/ HMC . He was a mentor, teacher and guiding force of neurologists throughout the United States. Surviving are his wife, Margret, his child
 SANTULLI-Thomas V., Pediatric Surgeon and former Chief, Pediatric Surgical Service, Babies and Children's Hospital of New York, born March 16, 1915, died June 2, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife, Patricia Anne, (nee Rita); two sons, Dr. Thomas V. Santulli, Jr. and Dr. Robert B. Santulli, 
 AUFHAUSER-Alfred. It is with fondest remembrance of Alfred that I salute his lifelong friendship, humor and personality. Walter C. Klein       
 In the last few years, multiple sclerosis has slowly stolen the strength in Joseph H. Hartzler's legs, forcing him to use a motorized scooter to get around the Little League baseball field where he coaches his son's team, and the aisles of the Federal courtroom in Denver where he was the le
 Marshall D. Berger, a latter-day Henry Higgins who taught generations of Noo Yawkahs how not to speak the Kings County English, died on May 28 at a hospital near his home in Orangeburg, N.Y. He was 77 and had taught speech at City College from 1946 to 1982. His daughter Karen Berger
 BROWNE-Robert P., of Atlanta died June 2,1997. Mr. Browne retired as President of Stewart R. Browne Manufacturing Company. He was also a member of the Atlanta Country Club. Survivors include his wife Jean M. Browne, Langhorne, PA., daughter, Carolyn M. Browne, Langhorne, PA., sons, James S.
 FOY-John C.W., British World War II veteran and retired Head of English Proofreading in the United Nations Publishing Division, died last Saturday (May 31, 1997) at the age of 78 after a long struggle with lung cancer. He lived in Englewood, New Jersey. Mr Foy served in World War II with th
 GARLAND-Rose, on June 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Shawn Hayes and David Garland. Dear mother of Tom Hayes. Cherished grandmother of Christine and Erin Hayes. Friends may call at the Dimiceli & Son Funeral Home on Thursday, from 7-9pm. Mass of Christian Burial, Friday 10am at The Holy 
 GOFFMAN-Alan on June 2, 1997. Father of Jennifer Goffman and Andrew Goffman. Son of Clare Goffman. Brother of Carolyn G. Shapiro. Memorial services will be held Thursday, June 5, 1997 at 5PM at the Society of Illustrators, 128 East 63rd Street, New York. Contributions in his memory may be m
 LEHMANN-Dr. Manfred R., a distinguished scholar, esteemed author who wrote brilliantly and contributed greatly to Jewish education and history past and present. A true champion of the cause of the State of Israel. We lost a multifaceted and most fascinating personality. My heartfelt condole
 LEVIN-Jonathan. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the death of Jonathan Levin, the son of Gerald M. Levin, Chairman and CEO of Time Warner, Board Treasurer of the Philharmonic, and a long-time friend and loyal supporter of the Orchestra. A popular faculty mem
 McVEIGH-Walter B. (Father M. Bernard), died Tuesday, June 3 at the age of 78 peacefully in his home, The Trappist Abbey of Our Lady of Guadalupe Lafayette, OR, of which order he was the Abbot for over twenty years. He attended Saint Paul's School, Concord, NH and Harvard University and serv
 NATHANSON-Morton M.D. Fine man, noble Physician. Loved and respected by generations of neurology residents. His loss is keenly felt. He will be missed. His Residents, Department of Neurology, L.I.Jewish Medical Center       
 NEUHAUS-Jon. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Zena Neuhaus on the loss of her husband, Jon Neuhaus. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President NEUHAUS-Jon. Endlessly kind 
 PLUMLEY-Jesse. On June 3, 1997, of ALS, in New York. Born October 13, 1947 in Philadelphia, son of the late Jesse and Elizabeth Plumley, he was a Sound Engineer who won the J.C. Handy Award for the best blues single of 1988. He collaborated with Harvey Schmidt in the three-album series, ''M
 REITZES-Stanley Jack. 1913-1997. Loving husband of Charlotte, devoted to family, generous to his community. Executive Director of the Jewish Community Centers in Richmond, VA and Camden, NJ.       
 REMY-Jean-Claude, M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at State University of New York-Health Science Center at Brooklyn and Kings County Hospital Center wishes to express its deepest sympathy of the death of its faculty member, Dr. JeanClaude Remy. Dr. Remy expired on May 29, 1
 ROSSMAN-Isadore, M.D. Montefiore Medical Center notes with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Isadore Rossman, a respected member of the medical center for half a century. An internationally and nationally recognized clinician and scholar, Dr. Rossman play
 SANTULLI-Thomas V., Pediatric Surgeon and former Chief, Pediatric Surgical Service, Babies and Children's Hospital of New York, born March 16, 1915, died June 2, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife, Patricia Anne, (nee Rita); two sons, Dr. Thomas V. Santulli, Jr. and Dr. Robert B. Santulli, 
 SCHLESINGER-Edward B., MD. Members of the Departments of Neurological Surgery and Neurology at the Neurological Institute of New York, Columbia-Prebysterian Medical Center mourn the death of Edward B. Schlesinger, MD. He was Director of the Dept. of Neurological Surgery from 1973-1981. He w
 SCHUSTER-Wally. Of New York and Las Vegas. Retired music publisher. Dearest son of the late songwriter Ira Schuster and Minnie Schuster. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Peter, Jason and Michael. Loving grandfather of Maisie. Adored brother of Phoebe & Leonard Lewin. Cherished u
 VEIT-Robert C. On 6/1/97, age 93. He retired as Professor Emeritus from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in 1965. Beloved husband of the late Mildred Larabee and Mary Mallon, father of Mary Fuchs and Helen Veit, grandfather of Suzanne Marchese, Thomas Fuchs, and Hilarie Fuchs, great gr
 WALTNER-Jules G., MD. The Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery at Columbia University, P&S, mourns the passing of Dr. Jules G. Waltner, Professor Emeritus. Dr. Waltner was a pioneer in the study of fluid circulation in the inner ear. He was instrumental in the development of m
 Bernard G. Segal, a Philadelphia lawyer who elevated his horizons to help spread the principles of law and justice throughout the segregated South and to every mean street in America, died on Sunday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 89 and had been president of the American Bar Associatio
 Daniel A. Lehner, the flamboyant president of Inflight Newspapers, a multimillion-dollar corporation that distributes newspapers and magazines to airlines and hotels around the world, died of a heart attack on Tuesday while attending a concert at Radio City Music Hall. He was 49 and lived i
 Edward Bruce Schlesinger, a former chief of neurosurgery at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, died on Sunday in Fort Lee, N.J., at his apartment there. He was 83 and also lived in Lakeville, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Schlesinger was equally
 BASSANI-John. The Cooley's Anemia Foundation expresses sympathy to the family of John Bassani. John was a leader in our fight for a cure. We are very grateful for his years of service as a Cooley's Anemia Foundation Board Member and the Treasurer of the Long Island Chapter. The Cooley's Ane
 COOPER-Eli. Beloved husband of Harriet, Loving father of Douglas and Neil, Dear brother of Isadore, Elaine, Roth and the late Samuel and Nathan. Cherished grandfather, uncle, great-uncle and cousin. WWII vet, Trustee of the Jewish Museum, Member of the Board of Directors of the Committee fo
 GARLAND-Rose. The Board of Directors, Trustees and staff of Beth Abraham Health Services join in extending our deepest sympathy to Thomas J. Hayes, our good friend and colleague at Beth Israel Medical Center, upon the loss of his beloved mother, Rose Garland. To the entire family, we offer 
 GOFFMAN-Alan. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Alan Goffman. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 JAMES-Dennis. United Cerebral Palsy sadly acknowledges the sudden, untimely passing of Dennis James-friend and benefactor of and spokesman for the thousands of Americans with cerebral palsy. A pioneer in television in his own professional right, Dennis articulated the aspirations of people 
 KLINE-Rabbi Oscar. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of the beloved husband of our most devoted Honorary National Vice President, Charlotte Kline. A noted communal leader, Rabbi Kline epitomized Torah values and was a person of great warmth and compassion. He will be sorely missed. Hea
 KURTZBERG-Lawrence. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Lawrence Kurtzberg. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus
 LEHNER-Daniel A. The Boards of St. Francis-Mercy Corporation express their deepest sympathy on the sudden passsing of our esteemed trustee, Daniel A. Lehner. As a prominent business and civic leader, he championed community health services and was an active supporter of Mercy Medical Center
 LEVIN-Jonathan. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jonathan Levin. A beloved teacher whose dedication inspired many young people, he will long be remembered by all those whose lives he touched. His father, Gerald Levin, a generous supporter
 McVEIGH-Walter B. (Father M. Bernard), died Tuesday, June 3 at the age of 78 peacefully in his home, The Trappist Abbey of Our Lady of Guadalupe Lafayette, OR, of which order he was the Abbot for over twenty years. He attended Saint Paul's School, Concord, NH and Harvard University and serv
 ROSSMAN-Isadore, M.D. Dr. Rossman died Tuesday, June 3 at home. The cause of death was cancer. The nationally and internationally recognized clinician and scholar, Dr. Rossman made seminal and enduring contributions to the fields of social and geriatric medicine. Dr. Rossman was editor of t
 SANTULLI-Thomas V., MD, renowned pediatric surgeon died on June 2, 1997, from cancer of the lung, at the age of 82. He was a pioneer in the development of the speciality of Pediatric Surgery, initiating one of the first seven training programs in the U.S. Dr. Santulli received a B.S. degree
 SCHENFIELD-William A., 91, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away June 3, 1997. He was the beloved father of Hal Schenfield, proud grandfather of Andrew, Eric and Jennifer Schenfield, Jill Alper, Susan, Jill, and Scott Potkin. Cherished great-grandfather of Dori and Lyle
 SCHLESINGER-Edward B., MD. Died on June 1, 1997 at 83. Dr. Schlesinger was the first Byron Stookey Professor of Neurological Surgery, Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery, and Director of Neurological Surgery Service of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in NYC. Dr. Schlesin
 SHRUT-George. It is with profound sorrow that we mark the passing of our beloved friend, Mr. George Shrut. He was a giant among men and a righteous man in his generation. His love for BenGurion University, for the Jewish people and for the State of Israel never waivered. It was only last we
 ZIMMERMAN-Ivan (Hy). Died June 3, 1997. He was a news photographer for newspapers and television and a veteran of World War II. He is survived by his wife Mary Ann, children Alana, Douglas and Beth, grandchildren Rebecca and Alexandra. Services private.       
 STONE-J. Jacques. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our long-time friend, J. Jacques Stone, at the end of Shloshim, the 30 day period of mourning. He was advisor, friend and dedicated ADL supporter for more than half a century, serving on the National Law and Civil Rights Com
 Dennis James, the perpetual television personality whose career as a ubiquitous game show host, announcer, actor and commercial spokesman extended from the primeval days of television to the present, died on Tuesday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 79 and had worked almost continu
 Frederic W. West Jr., who rose through the sales ranks of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation to become president and, later, a vice chairman, died last Saturday at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute Inc. in Tampa, Fla. He was 78 years old and had been living in retirement 
 Fritz Leutwiler, a Swiss central banker who played an important role as the system of floating currency rates was put into place, died May 29 in Zumikon, Switzerland, where he lived. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the Swiss central bank said. Mr. L
 George Fenneman, who earned an enduring place in television history as the good-natured, courtly foil to the tart-tongued mischief of Groucho Marx on the long-running quiz show ''You Bet Your Life,'' died on May 29 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77. He died of emphysema, said hi
 J. Anthony Lukas, a driven, tenacious author and reporter who won two Pulitzer Prizes while exploring the social and racial fault lines of 20th century America, died yesterday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 64. Mr. Lukas, who chronicled the generational
 Jeff Buckley, a folk, rock and pop singer and the son of the folk musician Tim Buckley, died on May 29 in Memphis, the police said. He was 30. Mr. Buckley drowned while swimming in the Memphis harbor, said Lieut. Brenda Maples of the Memphis Police Department. His body was recovered
 BENSON-Morris. Beloved husband of Betty, father of Sam, Jack, Irving and Donna. Cherished grandfather of ten and great grandfather of six. Died peacefully at home in Miami Beach Wednesday, June 4, with his current wife, Ligia, and newly adopted daughter Yani beside him. Born in 1903 in Ista
 COOPER-Eli. The Board of Governors and members of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of Eli Cooper, their esteemed member, and extend their deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Harriet and family. Donald Stein, President Howard Jacobs, Secretary       
 KARP-Richard. On June 5, 1997. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, uncle, friend. Educator, supporter of Jewish causes, lover of life. Loving, generous and kind. Mourned by wife Lita, children Miriam and Steven, Judi and Sidney, Molly and Marc, Charles, and grandchildren Sam, Anna, Seth, 
 LEADER-Sidney D., M.D. On June 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruby Felt Leader, loving father of Isobel Aviva Kirsch and Steven Leader and father-in-law of Barbara, cherished grandfather of Beth and Gabrielle Kirsch and Jaclyn and Allison Leader. Services Friday 12pm at Congregation Rodeph Sho
 LEHMANN-Dr. Manfred R. Last Friday, Dr. Manfred Lehmann was taken from us. The loss to his family is unimaginable. The loss to Eretz Israel is irreparable, and to his admirers and friends his passing has caused deepest sorrow. Freddy was the personification of the Universal Man, a leader an
 LEHNER-Daniel A. The Dowling College family was profoundly saddened by the passing of Daniel A. Lehner, our friend, colleague, and fellow trustee. Mr. Lehner's commitment to higher education and his dedication as a member of a number of Board of Trustees Committees and recipient of the 1994
 LEVIN-Jonathan. The Greater New York Chapter of the March of Dimes expresses heartfelt condolences to our friend and benefactor Gerald Levin and to his family on the tragic death of Jonathan Levin. His death is a great loss to our city's education system and to the untold students who would
 LINCHNER-Rabbi Alexander S. Nofloh Ateres Roshaynu, the crown of our head has fallen. Oy lonu ki shokoh shimshosaynu, woe to us for our sun has set. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed, revered and beloved Rabbi Alexander Sender Linchner, zecher tzadi
 LIVANOS-George P. The trustees and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute note with deep sorrow the death of George P. Livanos following a long illness. Mr. Livanos was an esteemed member of the board of trustees for twelve years. He served on the executive committee, the finance committee,
 SCHMELTZ - Rabbi Benjamin. With deep regret Bnai Zion announces the sudden passing of Rabbi Benjamin Schmeltz of the Murray Hill Synagogue on June 5, 1997. Funeral to be held in Monsey, N.Y. 10AM Friday June 6 at Bais Torah, 89 West Carlton Road. Shiva will be observed at the home of Dr. an
 STEBBINS-Cameron Duke. Aged 20, suddenly in an auto accident in Ithaca, NY on June 4 1997. Beloved son of Rowland Stebbins III of Corning, N.Y. and A. Morgan Henning Stebbins of Providence, R.I. Adored brother of Rowland Stebbins IV of Brooklyn, N.Y. Also survived by his grandmothers, Mrs. 
 Ronnie Lane, an English rock guitarist who founded the band Small Faces, died on Wednesday at his home in Colorado. He was 51. The cause of death was multiple sclerosis, the Reuters news agency reported. Mr. Lane was 18 in 1964 when he and Steve Marriott founded the Small Fa
 George P. Livanos, who helped build postwar Greece into a formidable merchant shipping power and as owner and operator of vast tanker fleets vigorously promoted efforts to protect the marine environment, died last Sunday at a hospital in Athens. He was 70 years old and in recent years had s
 J. Anthony Lukas, a driven, tenacious author and reporter who won two Pulitzer Prizes while exploring the social and racial fault lines of 20th-century America, committed suicide on Thursday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 64. Mr. Lukas won his first Pul
 BENSON-Morris. Beloved husband of Betty, father of Sam, Jack, Irving and Donna. Cherished grandfather of ten and great grandfather of six. Died peacefully at home in Miami Beach Wednesday, June 4, with his current wife, Ligia, and newly adopted daughter Yani beside him. Born in 1903 in Ista
 BLEIWEISS-Enrique, died June 5th, 1997 in Miami Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Elsy. Deeply mourned by her and by daughters, Monica Plotsky and Jacqueline Terpins, by son-in-law, David Plotsky, and by four grandchildren. BLEIWEISS-Enrique. It is with profound sorrow that his many fri
 COFFEY-Burton L., 81, Rockport, Maine, former Caltex Petroleum executive, died unexpectedly here, June 3, 1997. He formerly resided in Riverside, CT. Predeceased by his wife, Esther Nancy Coffey in 1995. Mr. Coffey is survived by one son, Burton T., Sr. of Rockport; a daughter, Emily Jean C
 COOPER-Eli. We note with sorrow the passing of a great leader, a visionary whose Cooper Fellows program created a living legacy for present and future generations of Russian-speaking Jewish youth. May his memory be for a blessing. May his wife Harriet, his sons Douglas and Neil, and the ent
 JAMES-Dennis. United Cerebral Palsy, its staff, volunteers and 150 affiliates nationwide mourn the loss of Dennis James. For more than 40 years, Dennis generously contributed his time, talent, energy and love to UCP. He was the ''Father'' of UCP's telethon, hosting the event since its incep
 KARLSRUD-Edmond. On June 6, 1997 at New York Hospital. Artist, colleague, friend, irreplaceable in all categories. Our prayers are with his wife Carolyn, his daughters Katherine, Karen, Kirsten and their families. Judy and Alan Olsen       
 KOVEN-Irving. On June 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Esther, revered father of Cory, Jay and his wife Juliet, adoring grandfather of Belle, Robbie, Willie and Rose, loving brother of Eleanor Magid and devoted uncle to Ken, Karen and Sabrina Magid. We will cherish his memory always. Services wi
 LEADER-Dr. Sidney D. The Hunter College community mourns the loss of Sidney Leader, husband of Ruby Felt Leader. Mrs. Leader, a Hunter graduate, served as a director of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund for many years. Together, the Leaders endowed scholarships in Urban Affairs and Health Sc
 LEHNER-Daniel A. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, Employees, Auxilians and Volunteers at Franklin Hospital Medical Center together mourn with profound sorrow the loss of Daniel A. Lehner. Chairman of the hospital's Ben Franklin Club and generous Franklin Hospital benefactor, his never-
 LEVENSON-Stanley S. Of Brooklyn, NY. Died suddenly on June 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruth. Adored father of Amy. Funeral service Sunday 2pm at Boulevard Riverside Chapels, 312 Coney Island Ave, Brooklyn, 718-633-0400. Contributions in remembrance to the Brooklyn Heights Syangogue, 131 Rem
 NATHANSON-Edward T. (Ted). Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Edward Nathanson. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 SCHMELTZ - Benjamin. Our hearts goes out to the Schmeltz family. The memories we shared are forever etched in our minds. We will always think of his sweet smile and laughter and the joy he brought to our family. Mrs. Batya Kahane, Levi, Reuven, Lori, Bruce and Michelle SCHMELTZ-Rabb
 STEBBINS-Cameron Duke. Aged 20, suddenly in an auto accident in Ithaca, NY on June 4 1997. Beloved son of Rowland Stebbins III of Corning, N.Y. and A. Morgan Henning Stebbins of Providence, R.I. Adored brother of Rowland Stebbins IV of Brooklyn, N.Y. Also survived by his grandmothers, Mrs. 
 STULBAUM-Arthur, D.D.S. The Executive Committee of Physicians for Social Responsibility/ NYC expresses sorrow at the passing of our long-time colleague, who worked for peace and a sustainable environment and pursued the art of acupuncture for pain relief. Our condolences to his family. Clem
 TOLBERT-John P., died on June 5, 1997. Loving husband of Elinor, devoted father of Jennifer and Page, beloved brother of Arch and Stokes, adoring and adored grandfather of Christopher. The memory of his intelligence, charm, and wit shall sustain us. Our lives are greater for his, and he wil
 WHITMARSH-Theodore Francis. Age 78. Died on June 6, 1997 after a long illness. He lived in New York City and Upper Brookville NY. He was a lawyer and former Vice President of Francis H. Leggett and Company. He was President of the Huguenot Society of America. Mr Whitmarsh is survived by his
 Stuart Troup, a jazz writer, critic and editor who worked for newspapers in the United States and Europe, died on Wednesday at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a kidney transplant, his family said.
 Ted Nathanson, whose career as a television director ranged from game shows and political conventions to 13 Super Bowls and 21 Wimbledon tennis championships, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 72. The cause of death was complications from lung cancer, said his son, M
 Alexander P. Kazhdan, an authority on Byzantium who edited a three-volume dictionary on that subject, died on May 29 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 74 and lived in Washington. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press said. Dr. Kazhdan had b
 Fred H. Mattson, a chemist at Procter & Gamble who left his mark as a researcher on cholesterol and heart disease and as one of the two accidental discoverers of the calorie-free fat substitute olestra, died on May 27 at his home in San Diego. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, s
 Dr. Isadore Rossman, a physician who specialized in geriatrics and pressed the idea in the 1940's that home care was more effective than hospital care for many patients, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was lung cancer, family mem
 John Wesley Joice, the hard-drinking, deep-reading former policeman who became the proprietor of Greenwich Village's most lionized literary hangout, died on Friday at his book-lined home at 3 Sheridan Square, across the street from the bar known to a generation of writers as the Lion's Head
 ALEXANDER - William. (a.k.a. Alexander Levy) Retired architect, patron of art and music, resident of Los Angeles, died June 2, 1997. Devoted and loving brother to surviving sisters Deborah Frey, Rose Goldberg, and Benjamin. A special uncle to many nieces, nephews, their children and grandch
 ANINAT-Raphael V. June 6, 1997 at the age of 33. He is survived by his mother Carmen Aninat Viveros, his brother Jose Antonio, his grandmother Ema Munoz de Aninat, and his friend Peter, as well as a host of other friends. He was a shining light, a radiant spirit and a joy for all who knew h
 BECKWITH-Herbert Lynes. On June 3, 1997. Age 94. Of Kingston, MA., formerly of Beacon Hill, Boston. Husband of Elizabeth (McMillan) Beckwith. His daughter by a previous marriage, Suzanne B. Bynum, of Cambridge, MA. Three grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. A graveside service will b
 COOPER-Eli. Beloved husband of Harriet, Loving father of Douglas and Neil, Dear brother of Isadore, Elaine Roth and the late Samuel and Nathan. Cherished grandfather, uncle, great-uncle and cousin. WWII vet, Trustee of the Jewish Museum, Member of the Board of Directors of the Committee for
 DeLAZZERO-Robert W. Chairman of the Board of Port Morris Tile & Marble Corp, New York has passed away on May 29, 1997 in his home at the age of 81. Mr. DeLazzero was past President of the National Terrazzo and Mosaic Association of America. In 1991 he won the Charles G. Witt Memorial Award 
 DURAND-Celestin A. III. Passed away peacefully June 3, 1997 at home with his usual faith, courage, tenacity and sense of humor. Celestin touched the lives of everyone he met. He was greatly loved and admired and his great joy and love of life will be sorely missed. A member of the New York 
 KOVEN-Irving. On June 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Esther, revered father of Cory, Jay and his wife Juliet, adoring grandfather of Belle, Robbie, Willie and Rose, loving brother of Eleanor Magid and devoted uncle to Ken, Karen and Sabrina Magid. We will cherish his memory always. Services wi
 LINCHNER-Rabbi Alexander S. Park East Synagogue mourns the death of a Torah scholar, the visionary builder of Boys Town, Jerusalem. He inspired in the students the love for Torah and Medinat Israel. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Linchner family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, Pr
 LIVANOS-George P. The entire staff of the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma (NISMAT) at Lenox Hill Hospital mourns the passing of George P. Livanos. One of the original members of the Advisory Board, his outstanding leadership and support through the years enabled th
 POMEROY-John Anness, age 82, died May 23, 1997 in Atlanta, GA. Retired from Union Carbide after 40 years. He leaves his wife Jean Louise Pomeroy, originally from Plainfield, N.J., two sons John Jr. and Peter, three grandchildren & a great grandson, all of Atlanta.       
 RAGUSA-James Joseph. On June 5, 1997. He will be cherished and deeply missed by his loving son Joseph, his beloved mother Maria, wife Tina, sisters Jean Rampanelli and Ann Mezzatesta and brother Vincent. Jimmy also leaves behind loving memories to his brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, their 
 SCHMELTZ-Rabbi Benjamin. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the sudden and tragic passing of our former educational director and extends heartfelt condolences to the family. A gentle young man with a beautiful neshama, Benji shared his love of Judaism through his teachings. He will be sorely mis
 SEGAL-Bernard G. The American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the passing of our long time supporter and Council of Trustee member, Bernard G. Segal. A man deeply committed to Jewish causes, the Law Library at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, was named after him. W
 STULMAN-Julius. The Officers of Westchester Day School gratefully honor the memory of its former Chairman of Trustees, a brilliant and dynamic man, who helped put the school on a sound foundation in its early days. Warm condolences to his son, Stephen, daughter, Joan S. Gilbert, and their f
 TURI-Charles S., Born in 1916 in Szolnok, Hungary. Son of Kalman and Francesca Turi. Graduate of Pasman University with a Doctorate in Law. He left Hungary in 1939 with his brother George to avoid the Holocaust. During World War II, he served in the American Army. Upon his return to Hungary
 WHITMARSH-Theodore Francis. Age 78. Died on June 6, 1997 after a long illness. He lived in New York City and Upper Brookville NY. He was a lawyer and former Vice President of Francis H. Leggett and Company. He was President of the Huguenot Society of America. Mr Whitmarsh is survived by his
 WILLIAMS-Roger E., Esq., 65, of Black Point, CT, on June 4, 1997. Beloved father of Jocelyn and Karen. Graduate of Dartmouth College and Yale Law School. Served three years in U.S. Navy. Trustee of Grace Church School 1974-1983. Retired from the NY law firm Townley & Updike. A memorial mass
 SHAW-Arthur. The family marks the 5th anniversary of his passing. He is always in our hearts. Pearl, Mel, David, Linda, Alayna, Amber and Timothy       
 William Richard Emerson, a military historian and former director of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, N.Y., died on Monday at Vassar Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Poughkeepsie. The cause was a heart attack, said John F. Sears, the library's exe
 Barclay G. Jones, an expert on the social and economic consequences of earthquakes, died on May 26 at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 72 and lived in Ithaca. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Barclay Jones 3d of Locust Valley, N.Y. Dr. Jones was a prof
 Dr. Derek Henry Fender of the California Institute of Technology, a biologist who studied eyesight and the functioning of the brain, died on May 28 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 78. He suffered a lengthy illness, said a spokeswoman for the institute, where Dr. Fender taught
 David T. Johnston, a commodities trader and executive who served two terms as chairman of the Commodity Exchange in New York, died May 26 at the Courtland Gardens Health Center in Stamford, Conn. Mr. Johnston, 76, died of complications of Parkinson's disease, according to his son, P
 Dr. Harold Rifkin, who was chief of the division of diabetes at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx for many of the 45 years that he was affiliated with the center, died on May 19 at New York Hospital. He was 80 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was respira
 James G. Shennan, a former president of the Elgin National Watch Company, died May 24 at the Presbyterian Home in Evanston, Ill. He was 86. A longtime resident of Wayne, Ill., Mr. Shennan joined Elgin, one of the oldest companies in Illinois, shortly after graduating from Princeton 
 Dr. Leroy Louis Schwartz, a former pediatrician who found a second career researching, lecturing and writing about health care and the many factors affecting it, like costs or social conditions, died on May 25 at his home in Princeton N.J. He was 64. The cause was ataxia, a neurolog
 ANINAT-Raphael V. June 6, 1997 at the age of 33. He is survived by his mother Carmen Aninat Viveros, his brother Jose Antonio, his grandmother Ema Munoz de Aninat, and his friend Peter, as well as a host of other friends. He was a shining light, a radiant spirit and a joy for all who knew h
 BROWN-Seymour L. On June 7, 1997. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Brett, Staci Karow and Jaime Miller. Father-inlaw of Janice, Mark and Barry Miller. Cherished grandfather of Zachary, Andie, Sam, Molly, Olivia, Jesse, Corey and Jack. Brother-in-law of Gertie, Natalie and Carol
 JONES-Charles. Composer. Beloved husband of Sally. Beloved grandfather of Cameron. Funeral services Wednesday, June 11, 11 AM, All Saints Church, 230 E. 60 St. JONES-Charles. June 21, 1910June 6, 1997. The Friends of Charles Jones mourn the passing of this distinquished composer and
 LEVIN-Jonathan M. Our deepest sympathy to Jonathan's family at his tragic and untimely death. By his deep devotion to teaching and his students, Jonathan was an inspiration to all of us. ''Good night, sweet prince.'' Friends from Trinity College, Class of 1988       
 MILLAR-John Young. Born Mineola, NY, November 11, 1918. Died at his home in Colorado Springs of cancer on May 30. He attended Choate School and Princeton cum laude, Class of 1940. In World War II, he was a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy in the Atlantic and Pacific. Joining the Foreig
 RAGUSA-James Joseph. On June 5, 1997. He will be cherished and deeply missed by his loving son Joseph, his beloved mother Maria, wife Tina, sisters Jean Rampanelli and Ann Mezzatesta and brother Vincent. Jimmy also leaves behind loving memories to his brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, their 
 RATTNER-David Samuel. On June 6, 1997. Graduate of Juilliard School of Music and Columbia University. He devoted his professional life to teaching and music education throughout the NYC public school system and conducted The All City Orchestra and The Teachers' Orchestra. His knowledge, war
 SCHMELTZ-Rabbi Benjamin. Israel has lost a Torah Crown. Friends and members of the Murray Hill Synagogue have suffered a wound to all our hearts. We have lost our beloved Rabbi. More than a friend, he was like a brother, a son, or a favorite uncle to all of us. The Jewish people have lost o
 STONE-Irving R. Retired Executive Vice President and Treasurer of Knott Hotels Corp. Died 6/7/97, one week before his 87th birthday. Vinnie survived his wife of 55 years, Elsie, who died in Easton, MD, on 1/24/97. The Stones lived in Forest Hills and Shelter Island, NY. Survived by his step
 TOLBERT-John P., died on June 5, 1997. Loving husband of Elinor, devoted father of Jennifer and Page, beloved brother of Arch and Stokes, adoring and adored grandfather of Christopher. The memory of his intelligence, charm, and wit shall sustain us. Our lives are greater for his, and he wil
 Robert Davis Howse, a retired executive and financial planner, died on May 26 at Palm Beach Garden Medical Center in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., where he had moved into a retirement community four years ago. A 45-year resident of Greenwich, Conn., he was 89. Mr. Howse was the founding
 Dr. Robert Nathanson, a clinical neurologist and founding chairman of the neurology department at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., died at the medical center on June 1. He was 79 and lived in Roslyn Heights, N.Y. He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
 Thomas Boylston Adams, a descendant of Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams who was a corporate executive, a writer and administrator in the field of history and an opponent of the Vietnam War, died on Wednesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 86. Mr. Adams was a great-g
 Dr. Vance Lewis Sailor, a nuclear physicist and expert in reactor safety who retired from the Brookhaven National Laboratory, died on May 11 on the way to Stony Brook University Hospital. He was 76 and lived in East Patchogue, N.Y. The cause was an aneurysm that he suffered while wo
 Allan Dell, the barkeeper who operated Hogs and Heifers, the offbeat country-western bar in the meat-packing district of the West Village, died early Saturday. He was 31. Mr. Dell was stricken in his sleep in his Battery Park City apartment, said Kevin B. McGrath, his lawyer. The na
 Charles Jones, a composer who taught at the Juilliard School and the Mannes College of Music, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 86. The cause was complications from recent heart surgery, said a friend, James Slater. Early in his career, Mr. Jones composed music tha
 Dr. Thomas Vincent Santulli, professor emeritus of surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University and former director of surgery at Babies and Children's Hospital of New York, died last Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Riverdal
 Dr. Francis Ferenc Foldes, the founding chairman of the department of anesthesiology at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, died on May 19 at his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was melanoma, his family said. Dr. Foldes was known for his studies on mu
 DELL-Allan. The staff of Shoot First Editorial sadly mourns the passing of Allan Dell. Our heartfelt thoughts and deepest sympathy go out to his family.       
 DOWNEY-Francis J. Died June 9, 1997. Son of the late Michael and Celia Downey of Ahascragh, County Galway, Ireland. Beloved brother of Michael of Staffordshire, England and the late John, Andrew, Thomas, James and Mary. Also loving uncle of many nieces and nephews. Former executive with Met
 FORRESTER-Robert R. Jr., 87, of Gulfstream, FL, former President of the Wilcolator Co. of Elizabeth, NJ, died June 7, at his residence. Survivors, include his wife, Elena; three sons: Robert, George and Peter; seven grandchildren and six great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held 
 GOODWIN-Donald Chester, June 8, 1997. He is survived by his son, Scott Goodwin, and a host of friends. He was a gentleman to all who knew him. His love and friendship will be deeply missed. His Son GOODWIN-Donald C. The Board of Directors and Officers of 875 Fifth Avenue, New York m
 HENRIKSEN-Arthur F.X., of Patrick Road, died peacefully Sunday June 8, 1997 at his residence after a lengthy illness. A U.S. Army veteran of World War II, he served as a Sergeant having earned the Asiatic Pacific Service Medal, Distinguished Unit Badge, Good Conduct Medal, World War II Vict
 KORFINE-Martin H. Of Scarsdale, N.Y., age 54, suddenly on June 8, 1997. Beloved husband of Sheila. Devoted father of Jordan and Amanda, loving brother of Arnold and sister-in-law Miriam, loving brother-in-law of Ruth and Milton Gelfand. A friend to all. He will be sorely missed. Services Tu
 KOVEN-Irving. Special friend, extraordinary person. Forever in our hearts. Emily and Irwin KOVEN-Irving. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving Koven. He and his wife, Esther, have been longtime, generous supporters and devoted 
 LANDES-Morris. State of Israel Bonds and its Rabbinic Cabinet mourn the passing of a distinguished leader of the American Rabbinate. Morris Landes of blessed memory was an inspiration not only to the Pittsburgh community but to all of American Jewry. An intrepid Zionist, he was by word and 
 LEWIS-Abbott, 83. Beloved husband of Mary, died June 9, 1997. He was loved by everyone who knew him. He was always there for his family, community and friends. We will miss him, Graveside service at Mt. Ararat, Farmingdale, NY today at 2:30 PM.       
 LOPATIN-Harold. The Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association Greater New York Chapter is deeply saddened by the loss of a good friend and long time supporter Harold Lopatin. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Ruth who, together with Harold, generously contributed much time and 
 MODLIN-Sylvia. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Joseph Modlin on the loss of his wife Sylvia. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President MODLIN-Sylvia. The Mens Club of th
 NATHANSON-Edward, husband of Edith, father of Michael, Laura and Carla and grandfather of seven, died June 6. A memorial service will be announced. In lieu of flowers, donations should be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering. NATHANSON-Edward (Ted). The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goo
 RASKIN-William, D.D.S. On June 9, 1997 at age 95, peacefully in his sleep. Beloved father of Edward and Arthur Raskin. Also survived by five grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Service today, 2 PM, Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, L.I.       
 SIMPSON-James Randolph, 80, of Houston, TX and Bay Head, NJ on June 7, 1997. Long time employee of W.R. Grace Co. and Occidental Petroleum Co. He is survived by his wife, five daughters, four grandchildren, a brother, a sister, four step-children and four stepgrandchildren. The Funeral Serv
 TANAKA-Mitsuyoshi Bartholomew, died on June 7, 1997 at the age of 52. He is remembered as beloved husband to Michiko, and loving father to Amy and Hirohisa. He will be sorely missed by his colleagues at BNL, where he was a Physicist for 20 years, and his friends. He leaves behind his mother
 UIHLEIN-Henry II. Of Lake Placid, NY. Died June 8, 1997, at his winter home in Indian Wells, CA, at the age of 101. He is survived by his wife, Suzanne M. Uihlein, and by his nephews, Robert and August Rohe. Mr. Uihlein was preceded in death by his first wife, Mildred Anthony Uihlein, who d
 WESCOTT-Christine Cummings. On June 6, 1997 at the age of 85 of Cresskill, N.J., formerly of Cedarhust, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late George, devoted mother of the late George, Jr. and the late Marilyn Wescott-Smith. Loving grandmother of Michael Smith of Pomona, CA., and Andrea Smith of Ha
 Reid Shelton, a veteran actor and singer who created the role of Daddy Warbucks in the original Broadway production of ''Annie,'' died on Sunday in Portland, Ore. He was 72 and lived in Waldport, Ore. Mr. Shelton underwent heart surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital in Portland on May 2
 Richard S. Aldrich, a cousin of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller who was elected to a two-year term as a Republican councilman at large from Manhattan in 1963, died on Friday in Massachusetts. He was 73 and lived in Providence, R.I., his birthplace. The cause was cardiac arrest, which he 
 Diogenes J. Angelakos, a professor emeritus of electronic engineering at the University of California at Berkeley who was an early victim of the Unabomber, died on Saturday at his home here. He was 77. The cause was prostate cancer, Robert Sanders, a spokesman for the university, sa
 Li Shuxian, the widow of China's last Emperor, has died, breaking one of the final links to the 267-year Qing dynasty, which ended when the boy Emperor Pu Yi was deposed in 1911. The official New China News Agency said today that Ms. Li had died on Monday of cancer at the age of 73.
 DECESSARE-Michael, 90, June 10, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Elsie. Loved as uncle and grand-uncle by his nephews and nieces. Retired J.H.S. principal who helped further the goals of many young teachers.       
 GOODWIN-Donald C. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 775 Park Avenue Corporation mourn the loss of Donald C. Goodwin. For many years his expert guidance and caring personality have been invaluable in managing the affairs of our building. With great gratitude, we extend our condolenc
 HEIL-Arthur G. Of Stamford, Connecticut, on June 9, 1997. Graduate of Manhattan College, class of 1932. Father of Marie Hawe of Stamford. Also survived by three grandchildren and predeceased by his wife Mary Heil. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Thursday, 10:30 A.M., at Sai
 JONES-Charles. The Juilliard School notes with sadness the passing of Charles Jones, distinguished member of the Juilliard faculty since 1954. During his long affiliation with Juilliard, first as a student and then as a teacher, he was respected for his integrity and generosity of spirit. H
 KELLY-Joseph A., CPIM, CPM, CIRM, director of materials management for Bristol-Myers Squibb company of Princeton, N.J., died Tuesday, May 27, 1997 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, NJ. He was 46. Joseph graduated with honors from Rutgers University in 1973 with a 
 LANGLEY-Stephen. The staff of the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM) mourns the death of Stephen Langley, who established the world class Arts Administration Program at Brooklyn College. Many of our staff have been students in the program and now serve as faculty. He will be missed.       
 LEWIS-Abbott. The Board of Trustees notes with great sadness the death of our colleague and fellow director. We will miss his wise counsel and his gentle ways. The Board of Trustees The Purchase Free Library       
 LUKE-William Guthrie, Jr., 80, of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., passed away Monday, June 9, 1997 at his residence. He was born January 3, 1917 in Luke, MD. Mr. Luke served as a Lieutenant in the USNR during WWII. He was a graduate of the Lawrenceville School and Cornell University. He is survived
 NATHANSON-Morton, M.D. The Department of Neurology of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine is saddened to note the death of Morton Nathanson, M.D. Dr. Nathanson was a Clinical Professor and a member of the Department for over 20 years, before moving to found the Department of Neurology at the
 SCHEIDKER-Richard L., Sarasota, Fl. Former senior vice president of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, died here on June 9, 1997 at the age of 81. During World War II he was naval aide to the Director of the Office of Stragetic Services, Maj. Gen. William J. Donovan, and assi
 SILVERSTEIN-Sidney. My dearest friend and customer for 30 years, rest in peace. My sincere condolences to his family. Charles Bornstein       
 WAAS-Raymond, J. On June 3, 1997, of Harrisburg, Pa. Beloved son of the late Frank and Senja Waas. He is survived by his three nephews, Peter, David, Chris Waas, and a host of other relatives and friends. Services and internment will be held graveside June 14, 11 a.m. at Fairfield Memorial 
 Sidney C. Sufrin, an economics professor and public policy specialist who headed a Government-sponsored economic mission to Spain after World War II, died on June 6 in Amherst, Mass., Phillip Shatz, the family's attorney, said. He was 87 and had been ill for some time with renal failure.   
 Dr. Stanley Schachter, who delighted in finding simple explanations for seemingly complex social behavior, died on Saturday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 75 and also had a home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Sophia.        
 A. Everette MacIntyre, who served on the Federal Trade Commission for 12 years, died June 5 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 96. As an F.T.C. trial lawyer from 1930 until 1954, Mr. MacIntyre participated in 32 antitrust cases and became chief of the commission's antitrust trials division.
 Amasa Stone Bishop, an American nuclear scientist specializing in fusion physics who took up environmental causes under United Nations auspices, died on May 21 at Clinique de Genolier, near Geneva, Switzerland. A resident of Genolier, he was 76. His family said the cause was pneumon
 Norman Cleaveland, who won an Olympic gold medal as a member of the 1924 United States rugby team that beat a heavily favored French squad in Paris, died Sunday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 96. As one of the last -- if not the last -- living member of that team, Mr. Cleavela
 CONGER-David Boyd, born on 12/ 17/44 in Hudson, Ohio and died on 6/10/97 at home in Dallas of kidney cancer. He worked for HoechstCelanese for 21 years in New York City, Chatham, NJ and Dallas, TX. Dave is survived by his wife, Sue, and daughter, Katie. The family will receive friends at th
 DUBOSQUE, JR.-Clayton. Of New Canaan, Connecticut. On Monday, June 9, 1997. Survivors include his wife, Mary Stanborough Dubosque, sons Richard S. and Douglas C., daughter Joanne H. and brother Hutchinson Dubosque and granddaughter Amanda Dubosque Guy. Memorial service is Saturday, June 14,
 ERICKSON-Henry E., 81, of Boca Raton, Florida passed away on June 3, 1997. Mr. Erickson graduated from Columbia University, he was also the former Vice President of Lorillard. He is survived by his wife Esther, three daughters and seven grandchildren.       
 GOODWIN-Donald C. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 960 5th Avenue mourn the loss of Donald C. Goodwin. His invaluable guidance will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his son Scott Goodwin.       
 HOFFER-Rose. We extend our deepest sympathies to our colleauge and friend, Philip Hoffer and his entire family, on the loss of his beloved wife Rose. Dinkes & Morelli       
 LEVY-Bruce J., 40, mathematician and manager, Research and Development at National Software Testing Laboratories in Wynnewood, Pa., Monday, June 9, 1997, of cancer. He is survived by his companion, Leslie Ann Bowman of Ardmore, Pa.; his parents, Dr. Sidney J. and Bobette Adler Levy of Chica
 LINDENBAUM-John, M.D., on June 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley. Dear brother of Peter and sister-in-law Sheila. Service private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory to the CPMC Fund for the Lindenbaum Lectures. LINDENBAUM-John. ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center commun
 SIMON-Irnie. With great sadness and sorrow the entire staff of Edmar mourns the untimely passing of its president Irnie Simon, a leader always striving towards excellence in the business world, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Jeanne, mother Henrietta, brother David, and childre
 TIMMONS-Benson E.L. III, Ambassador, retired on June 11, 1997 at Southampton, N.Y. Survived by his devoted wife Sanya and his loving sons, Peter of Washington, D.C. and Nicholas of Richmond, VA. Services will be private.       
 TRUEBNER-Louis H., 84, on June 10, 1997, at his residence in Greenwich, CT. Father of Peter L. Truebner of Darien, CT, Wendy Knapp of Stoney Creek, CT. and Elise Henning of New York City. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Memorial contributions may be made to Greenwich H
 Robert Emmett Jones Jr., an Alabama Democrat who served 30 years in the House of Representatives, where he helped speed passage of legislation creating the Interstate System of highways, died on June 4  at a hospital in Florence, Ala. He was 84, and a resident of Scottsboro, Ala. Mr
 Sidney Silverstein, a New York carpenter who started at the bottom and became a nationally known expert in housing rehabilitation and a builder of affordable dwellings, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y. The c
 Alexander C. McNally, an expert on fine wines and the director of the annual Heublein rare wine auctions from 1969 until 1984, died Wednesday at his home in Hartford. He was 62. The cause was heart disease, his wife, Tina, said. Mr. McNally became interested in wine as an un
 Gene Atkins Hill, the writer who created the cozy, sun-dappled place called ''Hill Country'' in Field & Stream magazine, died in Tucson, Ariz., on May 31. Mr. Hill, who lived in the New York area for most of his life, was 69. The cause was cancer, Cathy Lee Hill, his wife, said.    
 Dr. John Lindenbaum, whose research signaled to the medical profession that some common drugs, imperfectly formulated and dosed, can compound the very conditions they are meant to relieve, died on Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 63 and lived on the Upper West Side 
 BRENNAN-William R. Died unexpectedly at this home at the age of 48, on June 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Green and father of Jess, age 23, and Claire, age 6. Dear brother of Mary Jane and Patricia. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave (at 20th St), NYC, Satu
 COHEN-Samuel, left this earth, which is a better place for him having been there, on his 79th birthday, June 12, 1997. Survived by his wife of 54 years, Estelle (nee Goldin) and his children Mayda and Alan Clarke, Sandra and Martin Wertkin, Barbara and Bruce Alster, Marcia and Glenn Tanzman
 DAVID-Rabbi Arthur, on June 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Miriam and Jonathan, and father-in-law of Kenneth and Heli. Cherished grandfather of Hannah, Emily and Nora Gray, and of Samuel David. Loving brother of Morton. Senior Chaplain, Nassau County Police Dept. He
 HELLER-Samuel S. Oct 6, 1902 June 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Rose, devoted father of Franny Heller Zorn, cherished grandfather of Danny and Katie Zorn, loving brother of Phillip, Aaron and Martin. He was a founder of Art Gifts Products Inc. and a fellow of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine
 HOGAN-Carroll. Former consultant and appraiser of fine art objects for Sotheby's. Died on Friday, May 30, 1997 in Iowa City, Iowa following a short illness. He is survived by two siblings, Beth Flander of Winterset, Iowa and brother Eugene Hogan of MidWay, Arkansas. Memorial to the Ardon Ce
 JACKSON-Lou. All of us at Jackson Lewis Schnitzler & Krupman mourn the loss of our founder, Lou Jackson. For thirty-nine years he provided inspiration, guidance, friendship and good humor. We will miss him dearly and cherish his memory forever. There will be a memorial service on Saturday, 
 JONES-Charles. Aspen Music Festival and School mourns the loss of beloved, emeritus faculty member and friend Charles ''Sandy'' Jones. Founder of the Aspen Music School's composition department, Sandy, together with Darius Milhaud, established respected traditions and standards for excellen
 KATZ-Rabbi Aaron. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a highly respected rabbinic scholar, a dayan in Jerusalem. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Chana; children; brothers, Dr. Abraham Katsh, Rabbi Dr. Leon Kat
 KRAMER-Sam. The Knitgoods Workers Union Local 155, UNITE! sadly acknowledges the passing of a founding member of our Local. He was a long time labor activist, an advocate for social causes, and a fighter for workers rights. He served for many years as a Board Member of our Union. He will be
 LINDENBAUM-John, M.D., on June 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley. Dear brother of Peter and sister-in-law Sheila. Service private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory to the CPMC Fund for the Lindenbaum Lectures. LINDENBAUM-John, MD. The Columbia University Affiliation an
 MILLS-Harold Mark, Jr., on June 11, 1997, of Forest Hills, New York. Devoted son of Harold M. Mills, Sr. Beloved brother of Nancy L. Fardelmann and Margaret M. Michael. Cherished uncle of Robert M. Becker, William N. Becker, John O. Becker, and Alexandra M. Michael, and also two grandnieces
 WALTNER-Jules G., MD. The Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center community mourns the passing of Dr. Jules G. Waltner, Professor Emeritus of Columbia University College of Physician & Surgeons and Consultant Emeritus in Otolaryngology of The Presbyterian Hospital. A national leader in his spe
 Raghu Raj Bahadur, a professor emeritus at the University of Chicago who was considered one of the architects of the modern theory of mathematical statistics, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 73. A spokesman for the university said Dr. Bahadur died after a long illness, and a col
 Bulat S. Okudzhava, whose spare, telling poems helped forge an important new literature of dissent in Russia during the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday during a trip to Paris. He was 73. Although the cause was not immediately clear and his wife, Olga, told Russian reporters that h
 Howard Thomas Frazier, an organizer of people-to-people programs during the cold war and past president of the Consumer Federation of America, died on Tuesday at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Milford, Conn. The cause was complications after heart surg
 John Harold Bryant, an electronics engineer who specialized in the miniaturization of microwave systems and was the founding president of Omni Spectra, a manufacturer in that field, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 77. The cause was lymphoma, his family said.  
 ADAMS-William, III, 70, former Senior Vice President of Citibank Switzerland, died suddenly on May 2 in Chicago, Illinois. Survivors include his wife, Rebecca Espinosa, two sons, William IV and Edward Raymond, three grandchildren, and a sister, Sinclair Ziesing. A private memorial service w
 BRENNAN-William R. Died unexpectedly at his home at the age of 48, on June 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen Green and father of Jesse, age 23, and Claire, age 6. Dear brother of Mary Jane and Patricia. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave (at 20th St), NYC, Satu
 GROSSMAN-Neal Lawrence, died peacefully after a long illness on Friday, June 6, 1997, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, Manhattan. Born in Boston and a former resident of Marblehead, Mass., London and Los Angeles, he was 50 years old. He is mourned and missed by his many friends on both si
 JOLLEY-Fred G., June 12, 1997, at home. Survived by his wife, Mary Lois Jolley, and his loving family, Margaret, Kenneth, Elizabeth and John Petrocelli, Dr. Irene Willis, Daves Rossell and Grant Willis, six grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Mr. Jolley was most recently employed by
 LINDENBAUM-John, MD. The members of the Department of Medicine, Harlem Hospital Center, mourn the passing of Dr. John Lidenbaum, one of its most revered colleagues. Dr. Lindenbaum served as Associate Director of Medicine and as Chief of Hemotology-Oncology at Harlem Hosptial frrm 1969 to 19
 MAIT-Harold. Loving husband of Janet, beloved father of Joshua, Jennifer and David. Son of Doris and Jules. Brother of Mickey and William. Services Sunday, 10AM Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Avenue (914) 834-6120. MAIT-Harold Kenneth. Devoted husband of Janet, loving father of Josh
 Burt Chernow, an art historian writer and teacher, died on Monday at his father's home in Deerfield Park, Fla. He was 63 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Chernow began his career as an art teacher in the Westport school system, 
 ABRAMSON-Paul R. On June 13, 1997. Survived by his wife Robin; his children David and his wife Karen, Lauren and her fiancee John McGuire and Ashley; his sister Anne Gerson and her husband Edward. Services Sunday 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in
 BASS-Henry. Age 84, of White Plains, NY, and Lauderhill, FL. Devoted husband of 56 years of Minnie. Loving father and father-inlaw to Harriet and Andrew Schon, Lawrence and Sandra Bass and Joan and Marc Weiler. Adored grandfather of Lisa Bissell, Stephanie Solomon, Marisa and Amanda Bass, a
 COHEN-Samuel J., 83, of Royal Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of Bayside, Queens. Died June 12, 1997. He is survived by his wife Pearl, sons Harold (Linda), Barry (Bonnie); six grandchildren. Predeceased by his loving wife Lottie, of forty years, and brother Sidney. Services June 15, 1997, Me
 DAVID-Arthur, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and to all who were blessed by his fellowship and ministry. Rabbi David L. Lieber, Pres. Rabbi Joel H. Meyers, Exec. VP The Rabbinical Assembly       
 FEINBERG-Louis. Born September 29, 1947. Died June 13, 1997, of metastatic melanoma. President and CEO of Dazian Fabrics, America's oldest theatrical resource. He lived life to the fullest and continued to dine at the finest restaurants. Jet-setted across the ocean, long after doctors had g
 FLODA-Liviu. August 16, 1913 June 3, 1997. This Romanian native left his homeland in 1963 and began a career with Radio Free Europe in 1964. His creative, engaging journalism included interviews with Eugene Ionesco, Nobel laureate George Palade, Jean Negulesco, Isamu Noguchi, Andrei Codresc
 GOLDBERG-George S., C.P.A., of Dix Hills, LI, on June 13, 1997, after a long struggle. Beloved husband of Rhoda and devoted father to Alan and Jackie Goldberg of New York City and Jacqui and Matt O'Connell of Pensacola, FL. Loving grandfather to Jason, Ryan and Emily, and brother of the lat
 HELLER-Samuel S. Oct 6, 1902 June 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Rose, devoted father of Franny Heller Zorn, cherished grandfather of Danny and Katie Zorn, loving brother of Phillip, Aaron and Martin. He was a founder of Art Gifts Products Inc. and a fellow of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine
 JOLLEY-Fred G., June 12, 1997, at home. Survived by his wife, Mary Lois Jolley, and his loving family, Margaret, Kenneth, Elizabeth and John Petrocelli, Dr. Irene Willis, Daves Rossell and Grant Willis, six grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Mr. Jolley was most recently employed by
 LANGLEY-Stephen G. On June 7, 1997. Of Brooklyn Heights and Saugerties, NY. Age 58. Professor and Director of Performing Arts Management Program at Brooklyn College. Graduate of Emerson College and University of Illinois. Author of standard textbook on arts management, ''Theatre Management 
 LOTZ-Jack (Jacob). On June 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Janet Robinson. Well known and respected in the men's clothing industry for over 50 years and served as office manager for Joseph H. Cohen and Sons. After he retired he became a volunteer teacher of English to 
 LUKAS-J. Anthony. On behalf of the Columbia Journalism Review, we express our deepest sympathy to the family of J. Anthony Lukas. His accomplishments as a journalist and author are exemplary, and we are grateful for his work upholding the highest professional standards through his service o
 MAIT-Harold (Happy). Our dear, kind, loving son; adoring, wonderful husband; tender, affectionate father. Loved by his family, friends and many nieces and nephews. You will forever be in our hearts and minds. Always with a smile and kindness to all. We were blessed to have you even for so s
 MILDER-Arthur Aaron. On his 73rd birthday. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Marder). Loving father of Arlene Boas and Paul Coulaz, Lonnie and Jeffrey Garber, and Sara and Forrest Milder. Grandfather of Jared and Amanda Gurfein, Paul and Tracy Garber, Craig Boas and Stephen and Elinor Milder. S
 POTTER-Eugene Ward, Jr., of Bronxville, NY, Brandreth Park, NY and Nantucket, MA, on June 10, 1997. Retired president of Inco Investment Management Services Worldwide. Director of the Strong Schafer Value Fund. Decorated veteran of W.W. II, Yale 1950; Taft 1943. Member of the Yale Club, the
 SWENSON-Carl W. Of Matawan, on June 12, 1997. Memorial service Friday, June 20, 12 noon, at the Freeman Funeral Home, 47 East Main St, Freehold. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Raritan Bay Medical Center Hospice Auxiliary, 530 New Brunswick Ave, Perth Amboy, NJ 08861 or the American He
 TANNHAUSER-Erwin. On June 12, 1997. Beloved husband of Jutta. Dear uncle, cousin and friend. Services 9:30, Sunday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to a charity of your choice. TANNHAUSER-Erwin. The Officers, Trustees an
 TYLER-William. On June 13, 1997. Survived by his wife Carol (nee Carlisle), son David William, sister Anna Beth Oliver, stepsons Paul and Alexander Jimenez. Memorial service Sunday, June 15, 1997, at the Walter B. Cooke Kennedy Funeral Home, 117 West 72nd St, NYC, at 1 PM. Immediately follo
 REEVES-Benjamin. His sterling character is remembered with profound, everlasting, gratitude and pride.       
 Stephen Langley, an educator, author and theater manager, died on June 7 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 58 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was cardiac arrest, the hospital said. Mr. Langley was a recognized authority on theater management. In 1967, he w
 Joe Ben Wheat, an archeologist and authority on weavings of the Navajo and other Indians of the American Southwest, died on Thursday at St. Anthony Hospital Central in Denver. He was 81 and had lived in Boulder, Colo. He died after a short illness, The Denver Post reported. 
 AMEN-Grover. On June 13, 1997 at his home in Brooklyn at the age of 64. A poet, a novelist, a writer for The New Yorker, a teacher, an independent spirit. His short stories, including ''The Prophet of Bourbon Street'' and poetry were published in The New Yorker, Grand Street and Parnassus. 
 BASS-Henry. Age 84, of White Plains, NY, and Lauderhill, FL. Devoted husband of 56 years of Minnie. Loving father and father-inlaw to Harriet and Andrew Schon, Lawrence and Sandra Bass and Joan and Marc Weiler. Adored grandfather of Lisa Bissell, Stephanie Solomon, Marisa and Amanda Bass, a
 BLOS-Peter. Pyschoanalyst. Survived by his wife, Betsy Thomas Blos; his children Peter Blos, Jr., Lillemor Beenhouwer (of deceased wife Merta Blos); his grandchildren: Stephen (de ceased), Sarah, David, Andrea, Kaja and three great-grandchildren. Funeral service on Sunday, June 22, 4 PM. at
 GELBARD-Bruce. Age 45, of Annadale, Staten Island, a retired corporate secretary and a Board of Education official, died Saturday, Staten Island Hospital. Surviving are his wife, the former Lila Schaefer and daugher, Debra Reinish, his parents David and Jean Gelbard, a brother Dr. Mark Gelb
 GOLDBERG-George S., C.P.A., of Dix Hills, LI, on June 13, 1997, after a long struggle. Beloved husband of Rhoda and devoted father to Alan and Jackie Goldberg of New York City and Jacqui and Matt O'Connell of Pensacola, FL. Loving grandfather to Jason, Ryan and Emily, and brother of the lat
 LOTZ-Jack (Jacob). On June 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Janet Robinson. Well known and respected in the men's clothing industry for over 50 years and served as office manager for Joseph H. Cohen and Sons. After he retired he became a volunteer teacher of English to 
 RAEBURN-Samuel. Of Florida, formerly NYC. Died Friday, June 13, 1997, after a long, courageous battle with leukemia. Sam was a WW II veteran and die maker. Beloved husband of Harriet Shatz; loving father of Alan (Hilary) and Roberta (Terry); adored grandfather of Adam and Samantha; dear unc
 RAGER-Mayor Yitzhack I. The officers, directors and friends of the American Committee for the Beer-Sheva Foundation mourn the passing of our founder, our leader, the heart and soul of our organization-our neshama. His distinguished career as a military leader, journalist, radio commentator,
 TESZLERI-Zoltan, on June 13, 1997. Beloved husband of Aranka. He was a concert pianist who played all over Europe, and in America he played for the New York Philharmonic and in Carnegie Hall.       
 VARRONE-Gene, 67. Actor, singer (Tenor), performed in 21 Broadway shows! He was also an Interior Designer and a Human Being Extraordinaire. Survived by life partner Laddy Norwood, sister Marie Higgins, niece Deborah Suss, nephews Robert and Ronald Higgins. He passed away on 6/6/97.       
 Tristram Coffin, an independent Indiana-bred journalist who cast a critical eye on official Washington and the military during almost half a century as a reporter, columnist, author and pundit, died on May 28 at a hospital in El Cajon, Calif. He was 84 and had turned out The Washington Spec
 Bruce K. Gelbard, the powerful secretary to the New York City Board of Education who was ousted last summer, died Saturday at Staten Island Hospital. He was 45. The cause was cardiac arrhythmia, his friend and lawyer, Samuel A. Abady, said. Mr. Gelbard had been in a coma since Tuesd
 Milton Blatt, an inspiring teacher and coach at Andrew Jackson High School in Queens who guided its track and cross-country teams to national prominence, died last Thursday at his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Blatt's impact was felt by thousands of students during his 42 y
 BASS-Henry. The Board of Directors, Musicians and staff of the New York Chamber Symphony express our heartfelt condolences to Minnie Bass, Lawrence Bass, and the entire Bass family upon the passing of Henry Bass. Jeffrey Klein, Chairman Gerard Schwarz, Music Director Camille Reed, Executive
 BLOS-Peter. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are deeply saddened by the death of Peter Blos, Ph.D. Dr. Blos served as clinical consultant and teacher to generations of professionals at JBFCS. He was an extraordinary teacher and theoretici
 FEINBERG-Louis. We mourn the loss of our beloved cousin. The world will be a less interesting place without him. Peter, Susan, Robert and Marcia Dublin and children FEINBERG-Louis To my esteemed friend, I will miss you. Jim Onello       
 GELBARD-Bruce. Friends and colleagues at the Board of Education mourn the sad and premature passing of Bruce, former Secretary of the Board, and Chief Administrator of the Impartial Hearing Office. Eash of us has very special memories of a very special person. Deepest sympathy to his wife L
 KAPLAN-Harry, in his 100th year passed away on June 14, 1997 in North Broward Medical Center, Pompano Beach, Florida. He was the beloved husband of Belle (Jacoby) for 28 years and of the late Betty (Rosen) for 45 years. He is survived by his daughter Mimi (Aaron) Klein of Margate, FL.; his 
 KAPLAN-Myron, 84, of Boca Raton, Florida on June 15. He was a member of the I. Miller Shoe family and worked for many years managing salons in Philadephia, Washington and New York. He retired in 1985. He is survived by his son, Lee J. Kaplan, an executive in the Kinney Shoe Corporation, and
 KARLAN-Samuel C., MD. On June 15, 1997, of Whitestone, Queens, at the age of 89. Graduate of NYU Medical School, he practiced neurology and psychiatry in Queens for over 40 years. Beloved husband for 62 years of the late Florence Greenfield Karlan and father of Robert D. Karlan and Naomi Fr
 KUTZ-Alexander Marshall, 78, died June 14, 1997, of Delray Beach, Fla. Beloved husband of Edith Bolte Kutz. Loving father of Barbara K. Carocci, Allan M. Kutz, Emily K. Zeitman and Sandra K. Cohen. Devoted grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 4-1/2 great grandchildren. Founder and former Pre
 LOTZ-Jack. Jack was interested and active even in his 10th decade. Our deepest sympathy to his cherished daughter, Janet Robinson, and to his devoted wife, Doris. Ronald and Patricia Lee & Family LOTZ-Jack. Our condolences to Janet Robinson. We note with sadness the death of our Vic
 NILES-David. The suave voice that brought sophistication to the airwaves passed away on June 12, 1997. A broadcast pioneer, a founding member of AFRA, (later AFTRA) and WEVD chief announcer for 37 years. Started on WMCA in 1933 after a career in the stage and silent movies. He held WEVD tog
 PASCALE-Michael P. The Directors, Officers and Staff of LaGuardia Memorial House mourn the passing of ''Pete'' Pascale. Our much loved fellow Board Member devoted his entire adult life to the work of LaGuardia Memorial House and the needs of the East Harlem community which it serves. His wi
 RAGER-Yitzhack (Ijo), mayor of Beer-Sheva Israel. We mourn our long time friend and his devoted and exemplary service to the state of Israel and the Jewish people worldwide. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Dr. Bracha Rager-Zisman, the children and grandchildren. His adopted sister
 SOMECK-Joseph S. Entered into rest June 14, 1997 at Columbia Miami Heart Institute, Miami Beach, FL. Mr. Joseph S. Someck, 92, of Miami Beach, FL, beloved husband of Mrs. Bernice Hall Someck. Graveside Services will be held Tuesday, June 17, 1997 at 11:00 A.M. in Westover Memorial Park, Aug
 Richard JaeckelRichard Jaeckel, whose tough-guy roles as a grizzled G.I., gunslinger, cop and outdoorsman made him a familiar face to generations of film and television fans, died on Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 70 and had been livi
 Gonzalo Fonseca, a Uruguayan-born artist best known for his stone carvings of enigmatic architectural forms, died on June 11 at his studio in Seravezza, Italy, near the city of Lucca. He was 74. The cause was a stroke, said his son, Caio, a painter. Mr. Fonseca, who represen
 DAVIDSON-Colin Miles, age 46, on June 15, 1997, very peacefully at his home in Madison, New Hampshire. A publisher, farmer, & devoted father to Heidi, Carter, Charles, Colin, and Jacob. Father and step-mother Gerald and Catherine Davidson. Mother and stepfather Dorothy and Rennie Pennock. H
 GORDON-Herman. On June 16, 1997 at the age of 90. Lover of music, of discussion with friends, avid reader especially of The New York Times. Fighter for social and economic equality for all. His cherished survivors are his brother, David Gordon of Cleveland, his sister Gertrude Weiss of Lagu
 JAMES-Daniel, retired senior partner of Cahill Gordon & Reindel in New York City, residing in Ivoryton, CT, died, Tuesday, June 10, 1997 at Yale New Haven Hospital. Mr. James was born in Logansport, IN. May 19, 1905, the son of William C. and Mary Faber James. He received an A.B. in 1927 an
 KAISER-Benjamin. On June 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Ita. Devoted father of Steven and Alan, and daughters-in-law Vivian and Debra. Cherished grandfather of Emily, Kara and Jeffrey. Services on Wednesday, 9:30 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers
 LEVITZ-Jacob. Educator and Writer. Died on June 17, 1997, nine days short of his 85th birthday, after a long illness. Son of Rabbi Meir Perets and Bella Genendl, was born in Kolno, Poland in 1912. He received a traditional Jewish education in his hometown and in various Yeshivot. He came to
 NICHOLS-Osgood Marsh (nee Jim). On June 14, 1997. Husband of Eleanor, brother of Gouverneur Nichols and Polly van der Does of New York. Jim lived for over 50 years in Wilton, CT. He was a writer, editor, and head of his own public relations firm. His memberships include the Century Club, Ha
 PASCALE-Pete (Michael), on June 15, 1997, at the age of 82. Revered social worker in East Harlem for over 60 years. Former Executive Director of LaGuardia Memorial House (Harlem House). Beloved husband of Rose Pascale, Republican District Leader 68th East AD; Member of Republican State Comm
 RAGER-Mayor Yitzhack I. The officers of the Zionist Organization of America mourn the passing of our dear friend ''Ijo'' who, for many years, was Chairman of the Board of ZOA's Kfar Silver schools in Ashkelon, Israel. He was a dedicated Zionist and his contributions to the Negev and the dev
 SCHIEREN - Frances. Temple Beth El of Long Beach extends sincerest sympathies to our former President, Rubin and his entire family, at the loss of their dear wife, mother and grandmother. Presidium, Chairman of the Board, Rabbi       
 SCHWANER-Henry W. of White Plains, NY. He is survived by two first cousins, Walter Schwaner and Freida Willms and five nieces and one nephew. His wife Mary S. Schwaner died in 1983. A memorial service will be held at the West End Presbyterian Church, 165 W. 105 St, NYC on July 13, at 11 AM.
 TELLER-Rabbi Benjamin. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of this distinguished and esteemed rabbinic leader who is the father of Ann Rosenthal and father-in-law of Rabbi Gilbert Rosenthal, our beloved executive vice-president. May his memory endure in our midst as a source of 
 WALL-James H. M.D., 94. Medical Director, NY HospitalCornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. James Hardin Wall, M.D., former Medical Director of the NY Hospital, Westchester Division in White Plains, NY, Professor of Clinical Psychiatry, Emeritus at Cornell Medical College, Founder an
 George Strugar, a former defensive lineman with the Jets and Los Angeles Rams who had a standout  career at the University of Washington, died last week in Anza, Calif. He was 63 years old. The cause of death was lung cancer. Mr. Strugar played offense and defense in the mid-1950's 
 Benson Ellison Lane Timmons 3d, who was United States Ambassador to Haiti as the Duvalier regime tightened its reign of terror in the 1960's, died on June 11 at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 81 and had been living in Southampton in retirement. The cause was a stroke he
 CUTLER-Arthur J. passed away on June 18, 1997-died suddenly in his sleep. Alice, Jody and Danielle mourn the loss of their father, husband and friend. Arthur J. Cutler, a man of extreme intellect, compassion and devotion to his family and friends, will be sorely missed by all those who he t
 EVANS-Glen, on June 17, 1997. The American Society of Journalists and Authors (ASJA) mourns the passing of our past president (1987-88), the distinguished author of many books and hundreds of magazine articles. As editor of ASJA's 1983 book, ''The Complete Guide to Writing Nonfiction,'' Gle
 FINKELSTEIN-Frances. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses sincerest condolences to our distinguished colleague, Alan Finkelstein, on the untimely loss of his beloved mother. We pray that he and his family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion 
 KAISER-Benjamin. The National Conference of Christians & Jews mourns the passing of Benjamin Kaiser, Executive Board member, Jewlery and Watch Division and past recipient of the ''Humanitarian Award'' which he received for distinguished service in the field of human relations. He was a lead
 LEVITZ-Jacob. Educator and Writer. Died on June 17, 1997, nine days short of his 85th birthday, after a long illness. Son of Rabbi Meir Perets and Bella Genendl, was born in Kolno, Poland in 1912. He received a traditional Jewish education in his hometown and in various Yeshivot. He came to
 MILLER-Gavin. Passed away June 15, 1997. Survived by his wife Suzanne, children Emily, Louise and Kathie, brother George Miller. A celebration of life will be held June 24, 1997. For further information call Cabot & Sons Mortuary 213-681-0776.       
 NICHOLS-Osgood Marsh (nee Jim). On June 14, 1997. Husband of Eleanor, brother of Gouverneur Nichols and Polly van der Does of New York. Jim lived for over 50 years in Wilton, CT. He was a writer, editor, and head of his own public relations firm. His memberships include the Century Club, Ha
 ROMINE-Christopher. Died at age 40, June 16, 1997. He will be missed forever by his wife, Silvia, family and many friends. Service will be at Church of St. Thomas, Friday June 20, 10:30 am, 5 Ave-53 St.       
 TURNBULL-Noel. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the untimely passing of our friend and colleague, Noel Turnbull, a dedicated member of our security staff since 1991. To his wife, Leonie, his children, Tracey, Gregory, Annette, Sean and Brian, his father, Cliff
 Peter Blos, one of the first child psychoanalysts and a leading authority on adolescence, died last Thursday in Holderness, N.H., where he had a country home. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Blos ''was 'Mr. Adolescence' for many, many years,'' said Albert J. Solnit, Commission
 Robert Cameron McEwen, a lawyer and Republican lawmaker who, representing the North Country of upstate New York, helped restore the glory of Lake Placid as an Olympic-class resort and turn Fort Drum into a first-rate military base, died on Sunday at A. Barton Hepburn Hospital in his hometow
 Arthur J. Cutler, whose small empire of popular, conceptually unusual restaurants made a distinctive mark on the New York dining business, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 53. He had a heart attack while sleeping, said his wife, Alice Cutler. Mr. Cutl
 C. Martin Wilbur, an authority on the history and politics of 20th-century China and a former director of Columbia University's East Asian Institute, died on Wednesday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 89. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Ann MacKenzie. Dr. Wilb
 Lev Z. Kopelev, a scholar, dissident author and revered figure in the human rights movement in the Soviet Union in the 1970's, died in St. Elisabeth Hospital in Cologne on Wednesday. He was 85. The cause was heart disease, relatives said. He had lived in Germany since he and
 Pete Pascale, a social worker, community center official and civic leader who loved East Harlem so much that he made it the focus of his life, his work, his dreams and his memories, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 and had been executive director of La Guardia Memorial House
 J. Willard Hurst, professor emeritus of the University of Wisconsin Law School and internationally recognized as the dean of American legal historians, died on Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 86. The cause was cancer of the larynx, said his wife, Frances. In li
 Dr. Jurgen H. Rahe, a senior manager at NASA, was killed on Wednesday when a tree fell onto his car while he was driving home in a heavy thunderstorm in Potomac, Md. He was 57 and lived in Potomac. Dr. Rahe was the science program director for exploration of the solar system at the 
 Dr. Kenneth Miles Moser, a lung specialist who devised an intricate procedure for the surgical removal of rare but deadly blood clots from the arteries of the lung, died on Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 68. He suffered a brief illness, said the University of California at 
 Lawrence Payton, who sang with the Four Tops for more than four decades, died yesterday at his home in Southfield, Mich., the town's police department said. He was 59. The cause was liver cancer, said  Abdul Fakir, a Four Tops member. The Four Tops were one of Motown's most 
 Marvin H. Pope, a retired Yale professor who was one of the world's leading authorities on Ugarit, the ancient city in Syria where excavations shed important light on the ancient Scriptures, died on Sunday at First Church of Round Hill in Greenwich, Conn. He was 80. He and his wife 
 Fidel Velazquez Sanchez, a former milkman who helped create Mexico's modern labor movement and then ran it with an iron fist for over half a century, died yesterday in Mexico City of cardiac and respiratory failure. He was 97. As head of Mexico's largest labor confederation for all 
 Hal DeWindt, a director, producer and actor who was a leader in integrating the performing arts, died on Monday at University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 63 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said Chiz Schultz, a friend. In his various ac
 Thomas L. Coleman, who killed an unarmed civil rights worker then won a jury acquittal by claiming self-defense, died on June 13 at his home in Hayneville, Ala., the scene of the infamous 1965 killing. He was 86. Nobody was much surprised when an all-white jury found Mr. Coleman not
 The Rev. Msgr. Anthony Louis Maltese, pastor of the combined parishes of Immaculate Conception and Assumption Roman Catholic Churches in Tuckahoe, N.Y., died on June 15 at his home in Tuckahoe. He was 68. He had suffered a lengthy illness, the Archdiocese of New York said. H
 Ernest Charles Pascucci, an architectural theorist, editor and critic, died on June 12 in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. He was 29 and lived in Greenwich Village. He committed suicide, said his sister, Christina McCarthy. Mr. Pascucci was part of a small but growing group
 Dr. James Hardin Wall, who improved the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders and alcoholism in Westchester County, died on June 13 at his retirement home in Freeport, Me. He was 94 and formerly lived in White Plains. Dr. Wall started as a psychiatric resident in 1928 at Bloom
 Dr. Kenneth Eugene Mott, who led a campaign against tropical diseases  for the World Health Organization, died June 14 in George Washington University Hospital in Washington, where he was undergoing treatment.  He was 58. The family declined to specify the condition for which he was
 AWN-John J., Jr. Died suddenly on June 21, 1997 at 41. His untimely passing is mourned by his fiancee Joann Sweeney, his brother Christopher and his sister Linda. Dear son of the late John J., Sr. and Louise (nee Alouf). He was a graduate of Xaverian High School and Fordham University Summa
 AYDELOTTE-William. On June 8 in Naples, Florida. Founder, Chairman Ayco Corporation. National indoor singles and doubles tennis champion, 1928. Survived by three children: Margaret A. Mills, New York City; William H. Aydelotte, Naples, Florida; G. Thomas Aydelotte, Greenwich, Connecticut; t
 CASSON-Walter. Our deepest condolences are extended to the family of Walter Casson. Walter was a very special person to all of us. His memory and support will be with us here in Israel forever. Members of Israel Golf Federation Caesarea Golf Club Michael Goldman Martin Bookstein Eugene Wins
 CUTLER-Arthur J. It is with profound sorrow that the partners of Jeff Gural mourn the untimely passing of his close, personal friend and soul-mate ''Artie'', a compassionate and devoted friend, restauranteur extraordinaire, avid horse player and all around great guy. Our hearts ache with sy
 KRAMER-Milton. Of Boston. Beloved brother of Daisy Wynn and Pearl Bernstein and the late George Kramer and uncle. Mourned his passing. He fought passionately against discrimination and in his own way strove to improve the human condition.       
 LOBEL-Henry K. The National Board of The ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children in Israel mourns the passing of our esteemed board member and great benefactor, Henry K. Lobel. As Chairman of the Board of SmithEdwards-Dunlap, he, his beloved wife, Edith and his family gave without reservatio
 MOSKOWITZ-David Michael, age 38 of Short Hills, NJ and Quogue, NY, suddenly while bicycling on June 21, 1997. Devoted husband of Jacqueline (nee Stevens), adoring father of Alexander and Matthew, loving son of Reba and Ted Moskowitz, beloved brother of Robert Moskowitz and Alice Freidus, ch
 MUSHLIN-Sidney. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Muriel, his children, Marilyn and Miles and to the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Linda P. Goldberg, President Julian Bern
 REETH-George P., suddenly on June 23, 1997. Beloved husband of Carol. Loving father of Marie Mark, George Jr. and Mark. Cherished grandfather of seven. Dear son of Catherine. Loved by all who knew him. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Avenue at 12th St., Garden City. Tuesday 2-4 &
 SHREDERS-Marvin P. on 6/22/97. The employees of the Bliss Exterminator Company mourn the loss of Marv Shreders, a caring and dedicated technician and supervisor for 33 years. Marv made friends with his customers, with his warm heart and kind manner. He will be missed by all of us. Wake toni
 STRAUSS-Edward M. Jr. Of New York and Buck Hill Falls, Pa., died on June 21, 1997, at home in New York, after a long illness at age 79. Survived by his wife of fifty years, Dorothy R. Strauss; his son, Edward M. Strauss III, of New York his daughter, Cynthia L. Strauss, of Dallas, Texas, hi
 TRIMBLE-Samuel R. of Landing, NJ passed away at home surrounded by his loving family. His survivors include his wife Iris, children Kellie and Bill Hamburger, Michael and Lori Trimble, Samuel T. Trimble, and Ralph Aiello, mother Ethel Trimble and siblings Kathy and Earl Mikoloski. Six grand
 Arthur Prysock, the deep-voiced rhythm-and-blues singer whose seductive bass-baritone once coaxed listeners to ''let it be Lowenbrau'' in a popular beer commercial, died on Saturday at King Edward Hospital, outside Hamilton, Bermuda. He was 68. The cause was not disclosed, but Mr. P
 Brian Keith, the gruff, sturdy character actor whose roles in films and on television ranged from Western gunslingers and small-town police chiefs to private eyes and the Manhattan bachelor uncle raising three children in ''Family Affair,'' was found dead yesterday at his home in Malibu, Ca
 Dr. James S. Todd, a New Jersey surgeon who was the executive vice president and chief executive officer of the American Medical Association from 1990 until he retired last year, died yesterday in Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 65 and lived in Ridgewood. The cause was met
 John Akii-Bua, a slender hurdler who surprisingly won an Olympic gold medal in 1972 and almost paid for it with his life, died last Friday in Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda. He was 47 years old. Roger Byamugisha, the third secretary of the Uganda Mission to the United Nations in
 CUTLER-Arthur J. It is with profound sorrow that the partners of Jeff Gural mourn the untimely passing of his close, personal friend and soul-mate ''Artie'', a compassionate and devoted friend, restauranteur extraordinaire, avid horse player and all around great guy. Our hearts ache with sy
 DUBIN-Maurice M. Died peacefully in his 101st year on June 23, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Leah. Loving father of Marjorie and Alfred Faeder and Sydelle and Mac Carter. Devoted grandfather of six and great grandfather of ten. Dear brother of Harry. Service private.       
 MCGOVERN-H. Kenneth. Died of cancer on June 20, 1997 at the age of 80 years old. Formerly of Scarsdale, NY, he resided in Jupiter, FL and died in West Palm Beach. He is survived by 4 children: Kenneth, Jane, Ann Noble and Elizabeth. Kenneth was married to the late Elizabeth Hoyt McGovern. S
 THUNHORST-Henry J., Jr. June 23, 1997. Hank was a gentleman of great integrity, style and charm. He was fiercely loyal to country, family and friends, devoted and loving to Marsha, Nancy, Tripper, James, Chip, and Remy. Courageously he battled physical challenges to live a full and rich lif
 William Metcalf, a baritone who sang with the New York City Opera for more than a decade, died on June 5 at the Terence Cardinal Cook Health Center in East Harlem. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. His lawyer, Daniel F. Tritter, said he died of AIDS. Mr. Metcalf was born in 
 Gavin Miller, a lawyer who specialized in corporate and securities law and a past president of the Los Angeles County Bar Association, died on June 15 at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Bronwyn Long of Davis Polk & Wardwell, the Manhattan firm wher
 Herbert Beckwith, an architect and longtime professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on June 3 at his home in Kingston, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Beckwith helped to design 11 buildings at M.I.T., including the Dorrance Food Laboratory and the Van de Graaf Generator bu
 Jacques-Yves Cousteau, the French oceanographer who opened more of the Earth's surface to human endeavor than any other explorer, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 87. Mr. Cousteau, who held no scientific degree, became a household name in many parts of the world through t
 Morris Milgram, who made reality of his ideals by building and fostering interracial private housing from coast to coast, died on Sunday at the Attleboro Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, said his son, Gene. Born into pove
 DOMINGUEZ - Nicholas. Died June 18, 1997. Age 87. Joined the United Nations at end of World War II, retired 1970. Born Caracas, Venezuela 1910, arrived New York City 1920. Played semi-pro baseball. During World War II, served under General Douglas MacArthur as a Corporal in U.S. Army 307th 
 FREIDUS-Harold. June 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Cora. Devoted father of Jeffrey, Elleri and Marshall. Cherished grandfather of Wayne, Tara, Vanessa, Greg, Mandi, Stephanie and Justin. One will always remember his unique strength of character. Service Thursday, June 26th, 9:30 A.M., Frank 
 LOEB-Irving. We mourn the loss of a devoted friend and a kind and compassionate person. As a trustee of the Margaret and Elizabeth Winkler Foundation and as a Golden Founder together with his beloved wife Selma, his leadership and efforts at endowing Nursing Scholarships and equipment for t
 QUINTERO-John, age 34, of Brooklyn, NY, on March 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Laura (nee Bue). Survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Reynold Quintero, and sisters, Cecilia and Alicia. John was employed by the Xerox Corp. Mass was celebrated at St. Finbar's R.C. Church on April 12, 1997.    
 STADTMAUER-Simon. Palisades Gardens Foundation, Palisades NY and Gemiluth Chessed of Greater New York mourn the passinfg of a giant in Torah, a rare human being possessed with humility and devotion to the principles of Judaism, and our great supporter and former guest of honor. Our sinceres
 STEYER-Roy H. Died at his home on June 25, 1997 after a long illness. Deeply mourned by his beloved wife, Marnie and his sons Hume, James and Thomas. Also survived by his brother Murray, his sister Frances Martinson and nine grandchildren. Retired partner of Sullivan and Cromwell, where he 
 SHINROD-Stanley A.dd for,nat,met<wkd/%f con Died of leukemia, June 24, 1997. Beloved husband of Irene, devoted son of Fannie, wonderful brother of Isabel Mitchell, caring and loving father of Robin and David Schamberg, Beth and Edward Kipperman and Edward Shinrod. Special grandfather of Nea
 Dr. Roger C. Bone, a lung specialist and former president of the Medical College of Ohio who spent his final year reminding his fellow physicians about their obligations toward the terminally ill, like himself, died on June 8 at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. He was
 Walter F. Weiker, a specialist in Turkish politics and history at Rutgers University who was long active in Jewish causes, died on June 8 at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 65. The cause was cancer, according to Rutgers-Newark, where he taught for 35 years and was chairman of th
 Albert L. Latter, a nuclear physicist and expert on nuclear weapons systems' abilities and vulnerabilities, died on June 8 at his home in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. He was 76. His death was announced on Wednesday by the Rand Corporation, the research concern based
 Don Hutson, one of the Green Bay Packers' greatest players and perhaps the best wide receiver in college and professional football history, died yesterday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. The cause of death and the names of survivors will not be made available by the family until
 James Chandler Bowling, a longtime executive with the Philip Morris Companies who helped initiate the company's program in support of the visual and performing arts, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and had homes in Vero Beach, Fla., and Dari
 BIRDSALL-Blair, of Allendale, N.J. formerly of Glen Rock, N.J. on June 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Elizabeth (nee Figueroa). Loving father of Elizabeth J. Evans of Fl., William B. Birdsall of N.J., James B. Birdsall of PA., Maria R. CelisWirth of N.Y., N.Y., Jose R. Celis of N.J., Dr. Rodo
 BLUESTONE-Henry R. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Father of Andrew and step-children David and Jo. Cherished by grandaughter Gabriel and four step-grandchildren. We will remember him as a leader in Jewish life, a Board Member of UAHC, President, The Free Synogogue of Westchester, HAYAS and T
 BOWLING-James Chandler. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. notes with sorrow the death of retired Philip Morris Director and Executive James Chandler Bowling. Mr. Bowling served as a member of the Philip Morris Companies, Inc., Board of Directors and as Assistant to the Chairman of the Board fro
 CHURCHILL-W. Philip. We mourn the passing of our elder partner, Phil Churchill. He served this law firm and its clients faithfully for 44 years, from 1935 to 1979, interrupted by military service in World War II. Phil provided friendship, wise counsel and guidance to many, including his par
 DELLE CESE-Alexander A. (Honorable), The Officers, Directors, members and staff of the Bronx County Bar Association mourn the passing of our beloved Past President and distingushed member of the Bench and Bar and extend our deepest sympathy to his bereaved family.       
 FREIDUS-Harold. The Trustees and Officers of Northwood University mourn the loss of Harold Freidus, June 24, 1997; collector, arts advocate, friend of education and benefactor. With deepest sympathy to his loving wife, Cora, and many New York friends. Dr. David Fry, President Brian Parr, Vi
 GOLDRING-Charles. The officers and members of the National Commission and staff of the AntiDefamation League mourn the passing of Charles Goldring, 90, of Los Angeles, a great national leader and longtime devoted supporter. It was his foresight and determination that inspired, initiated and
 HYAMS-George, M.D. The Board of Trustees and the Board of Directors of the New York County Medical Society mourns the passing of this esteemed colleague. Dr. Hyams' many positions included former chairman of the Board of Trustees and longtime delegate to the Medical Society of the State of 
 LEFKOWITZ-Joseph, 77, of Long Beach, on Thursday June 26, 1997 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Mildred, loving father of Bonnie and Rochelle, devoted father-in-law of Charles and Felix, adored grandfather of Melissa and Joshua. He devoted his life to his family, his community and h
 LOEB-Irving. We deeply mourn the passing of a distinguished friend and generous benefactor. As a trustee of the Margaret and Elizabeth Winkler Foundation, he improved the quality of care at Netanya's only hospital by donating life-safing equipment to its Departments of Cardiology and Pediat
 McDermott-Rev. Joseph J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired Chaplain of St. Charles Cemetery, Farmingdale, L.I., on June 25. Reposing in Smith Funeral Home, 248 Prospect Park West, Brooklyn, Friday, June 27, 2-5 and 7-9 p.m. Funeral mass Saturday, June 28, at 10:30 a
 ROSENTHAL-Daniel C., on June 26, 1997. Loan Officer at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. for 20 years. Beloved husband of Pamela, loving father of Lauren, dear brother of Beth Barth and Carolanne Fenz. Service and interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made t
 RUTLEDGE-Felix Noah, M.D., an internationally known gynecologic surgeon who developed innovative treatments for women with cancer, died on Saturday, June 21, 1997, in Houston, Texas. He was seventy-nine. During his 38-year association with The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center
 SALVADORI-Mario G. Died June 25, 1997, aged 90. Beloved husband of Carol; father of Vieri and Michael; grandfather of Niccolo, Daniel, and Maia; and father-in-law of Rebecca and Beth. Mario was a master teacher, a brilliant engineer, and a clear and imaginative writer. He lives in the heart
 STEYER-Roy H. Died at his home on June 25, 1997 after a long illness. Deeply mourned by his beloved wife, Marnie and his sons Hume, James and Thomas. Also survived by his brother Murray, his sister Frances Martinson and nine grandchildren. Retired partner of Sullivan and Cromwell, where he 
 WENG-Sin-Tzu. Passed away on June 26, 1997, in his home town, Ning Bo, China. He was President and CEO of Multi Resources International Corporation and President and CEO of Benilite Corporation of America. He was born on February 26, 1921, and is surivived by his wife Rosalta, son Steven, d
 Archbishop Thomas J. Murphy, who came to Seattle 10 years ago as part of a controversial power-sharing arrangement with a maverick Archbishop, Raymond G. Hunthausen, and stayed on to assume a full and stable command, died yesterday in a Seattle hospital. He was 64 years old. Archbis
 Don Hutson, one of the Green Bay Packers' greatest players and perhaps the best wide receiver in college and professional football history, died on Thursday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. Milton Johnson, a spokesman for the Wiefel and Sons Funeral Home in Palm Springs, Calif., 
 Mario G. Salvadori, an engineer whose passion for structures was equaled only by his devotion to teaching about them, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. At his death, Dr. Salvadori was honorary chairman of the engineering firm of Weidlinger Associates 
 BAILIN-Moses M., 81, Spanish Civil War veteran, died on June 26, 1997. Survived by his wife Florence and sons Alan and Sidney. Services to be held Sunday, June 29, 11AM, at Plaza Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at 91st Street, New York, New York.       
 GILIBERTI-Vito L., June 26, 1997. Beloved brother of Aida DeFeo and Camille Maxwell. Survived by 12 nieces and nephews and 24 grand nieces and nephews. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20 St), NYC Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial Monday 10AM at Ep
 MacISAAC-Robert. Born August 17, 1944 in New York City, died Tuesday, June 24, 1997. He was the son of Angus and Marjorie (Elliott) MacIsaac. Robert last resided at the Stony Creek IRA in Hadley, New York. Concerned friends or family should call the Capital District DSO Director, Michael Di
 MARIN-Dragan. On June 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Kari, cherished father of Lydia McConnell and father-in-law of Gordon McConnell, grandfather of Janine and Karina, great-grandfather of Sydney, Gianna and Greta Jo. Funeral services will be Tuesday, July 1, 1997, 11 AM, at St. Sava Serbian 
 PRIMAVERA-George J., M.D. On June 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Anne M. (nee Frevola). Survived by his two children, John A. and Carol Burcham, grandchildren: Carla, John Peter and Danielle. Devoted brother-in-law of Elena J. Frevola. Reposing at McLaughlin & Sons, 9620 Third Ave, Brooklyn, 
 REILLY-John J. On June 24th in Naples, FL. He was 84. Retired State Supreme Court Judge. Formerly of Upper Nyack, NY. Survived by his wife, Madeleine A. Also a nephew, Henry Huntington Rossbacher. Four stepchildren: Suzanne Drake Tiedemann, Stephen Carlton Drake, Kevin Walter Drake & Jacque
 ROTENBERG-Maurice (Moishe). On June 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Yvette and Murray Vogel, Judy, Rachelle, Joseph and Barbara Rotenberg, and Hindy and Reuben Taub. Cherished brother of Rabbi Shlomo and Alex Rotenberg, Charlotte Bauminger and Rosalie Lamet. Loving gran
 SCHOLTZ-J. Henry Jr, 94 of Essex, CT, died in Essex June 26. Celebrating their 70th anniversary, he was husband of Angela (Williams) Scholtz. Chairman of Scholtz & Co., Inc. NYC retiring in 1980. Leaves two sons; Andrew A. and Frederick H. Scholtz, both of Naples, FL, 7 grandchildren and 13
 TENNENBAUM-Felix. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing its esteemed member, Felix Tennenbaum. Felix was a low-key individual, who believed in dedicating himself to his business and to his devoted wife, Evelyn; these were his two true loves i
 WACHTEL-Arthur, died on June 26, 1997 on the 65th anniversary of his marriage to his beloved wife Elizabeth. Retired civil court and acting supreme court judge. Devoted father of Dr. Daniel Wachtel and daughter-in-law Paula, cherished grandfather of Devorah Vineburg and Dr. Marian Wachtel. 
 William Slater Brown, one of the last survivors of the Lost Generation of writers whose restless, rebellious lives were shaped by World War I and the postwar bohemian society of Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 100. Mr. Brown, a member of an ol
 Dr. Forest D. Dodrill, a pioneer in the use of mechanical heart pumps to assist in heart surgery, died on Monday in Baltimore, where he lived. He was 95. In 1952, Dr. Dodrill used an artificial heart machine during surgery as a temporary substitute for the left ventricle, the main p
 Ely Maurer, a State Department expert in the repatriation of artworks, archeological treasures, gold and financial property looted in World War II, died on Wednesday at his desk in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. Mr. Maurer died of a heart attack, said his son,
 Gerhart Niemeyer, a conservative political philosopher and professor emeritus of government at the University of Notre Dame, died on Monday at his apartment in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90. The cause was cancer, said his son Paul V. Niemeyer, a judge for the United States Court of App
 BAILIN-Moses M., 81, Spanish Civil War veteran, died on June 26, 1997. Survived by his wife Florence and sons Alan and Sidney. Services to be held Sunday, June 29, 11AM, at Plaza Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at 91st Street, New York, New York.       
 EDGETTE-John. A wonderful man, our friend and partner, will be greatly missed. His wit and exuberance will be remembered always. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Stan Ettinger and the Pont Street Stable Partners       
 GERSON-John. Of New York City and Guilford Ct. Cherished husband of Edith Gerson. Died Friday, June 20, 1997. Sweetie, my love for you will never end. GERSON-John. The Sheffield School mourns the loss of John Gerson, Dean of Advanced Studies. A special teacher and talented interior 
 HECKER-Alfred B., 90, of Danbury, CT, formerly of Manhattan, on June 24, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Tatiana (Brajnikov) Hecker. Mr. Hecker was born in Alton, MO on July 15, 1906. He attended Harvard University and graduated college in England, where he became a Chartered Accountant. 
 KOMOROFF-Samuel. Lawyer, entertainer. Graduate of Brooklyn College of Pharmacy and St. John's University Law School, he survived his beloved wife of 61 years, Jen. A successful surety lawyer, he also pursued his love of show business and jazz performing as ''Trombone Sam.'' An active member
 MacISAAC-Robert. Born August 17, 1944 in New York City, died Tuesday, June 24, 1997. He was the son of Angus and Marjorie (Elliott) MacIsaac. Robert last resided at the Stony Creek IRA in Hadley, New York. Concerned friends or family should call the Capital District DSO Director, Michael Di
 MAURER-Ely. Died suddenly June 25. Dearly beloved brother and uncle. He was loved by all and will be greatly missed. Beatrice and George Carver Alix and Michael Spielman       
 MERINO-Francisco F., M.D. 87, on June 25, 1997. Formerly from New York City. Retired to San Diego. Distinguished Psychiatrist. Survived by his wife Rose E. Merino, M.D.; his children Paco, Lily; their children Rosa Merino, Psychiatrist, Margaret Plumb, Frances Duttera, Frank Merino; and sev
 MILGRAM-Morris (age 81). On June 22, 1997 at Attleboro Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Langhorne, Pa., of a sudden stroke after 2 years of declining health. He was a pioneer developer of racially integrated housing, starting in 1952. He is survived by a daughter, Betty Milgram of Silve
 MILHORAT-Ade T. M.D. We deeply mourn the passing of our longtime friend, whose pioneering research conducted at New York Hospital in the 1940s and great concern for the patients he served sparked the creation of MDA, the world's foremost agency dedicated to the defeat of neuromuscular disea
 MUSNICK-Maurice K., suddenly on June 27. Loving husband of Virginia. Beloved uncle, son, and friend to all who knew him.       
 PEREZ-Louis (Lulu). 64. Died April 30, 1997. He was a native of Brooklyn, New York, but made Middletown, New York, his home.       
 PRIMAVERA-George J., M.D. On June 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Anne M. (nee Frevola). Survived by his two children, John A. and Carol Burcham, grandchildren: Carla, John Peter and Danielle. Devoted brother-in-law of Elena J. Frevola. Reposing at McLaughlin & Sons, 9620 Third Ave, Brooklyn, 
 PRINCENTHAL-Philip. On June 28, of Alzheimer's disease. Beloved husband of Doris. Cherished father of Burt and Nancy. Devoted grandfather of Jacob and Milo. Memorial service Monday at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to the NYC Cha
 RATNER-Peter. Our condolences to our colleague, Richard Ratner, on the untimely death of his beloved brother Peter. American Society for Adolescent Psychiatry Alex Weintrob, M.D., President Vivian Rackoff, MBBS, Secretary       
 SCHEIN-Rudolph. On June 23 1997. Born in Vienna, Austria in 1913, came to the US in 1946. Devoted husband of the late Beatrice Schein. Beloved uncle of Sam and Wini Schein, the late Lilian Schein, Susan and Izhak Ifrach, Jay and Cheryl Perlstein. Dear brother-inlaw of Selma and the late Art
 SCHWARTZMAN-Dr. Joseph D., 94, ophthalmologist, of Tamarac, FL, (formerly of Jackson Heights, NY). Born in Russia on May 28, 1903, passed away June 28, 1997. Beloved husband to Jolanta. Devoted father to Patrick. Brother of Fannie and Anne; Uncle Jo to numerous nieces and nephews. He gradua
 SOBOLOV-Harold (Hal), 75, on June 23, 1997. Mr. Sobolov was a retired executive with CBS, Inc. He is survived by his daughter, Joy; his sons, Ivan and Bruce; sisters, Leona Goldsmith and Selma Korotzer, and grandson, Samuel. Memorial service Tuesday (July 1), 11 AM, at Riverdale-on-Hudson F
 STEYER-Roy H. Died at his home on June 25, 1997 after a long illness. Deeply mourned by his beloved wife, Marnie and his sons Hume, James and Thomas. Also survived by his brother Murray, his sister Frances Martinson and nine grandchildren. Retired partner of Sullivan and Cromwell, where he 
 VOGELSTEIN-Warren. Devoted, loving husband to Renee, father to Vicky Saxon and Valerie Golbus, grandfather of twelve. A man of great distinction. A great loss to all who knew him.       
 WACHTEL-Arthur, died on June 26, 1997 on the 65th anniversary of his marriage to his beloved wife Elizabeth. Retired civil court and acting supreme court judge. Devoted father of Dr. Daniel Wachtel and daughter-in-law Paula, cherished grandfather of Devorah Vineburg and Dr. Marian Wachtel. 
 WEISMAN-Albert. Of Harrison, NY, passed away on June 22, 1997. Survived by his loving wife Florence, children Susan and Barry, and granddaughter Elana.       
 WHITE-Raymond C. On June 26, 1997, beloved husband of the late Helen M. (nee Cronin). A Fordham man-prep and '25 college '29, law '32. Captain U.S. Army W.W. II, senior vice president Morgan Guaranty, retired 1972. A Catholic gentleman respected by those who knew him and loved by his two ch
 COHEN-Elias A. Although 45 years have passed since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who are privileged to come to his Tranquility Farm & Camp for a few fun-filled wee
 Kenneth Dale McCormick, who joined Doubleday in 1930 as a clerk  and became its longtime editor in chief and a major figure in American book publishing, died on Friday at the Kateri Residence, a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was com
 Benjamin Zemach, an American modern-dance pioneer who specialized in Jewish themes but also worked more broadly in the theater and in films, died on June 18 in Jerusalem. He was 95. He had moved to Israel in 1971, said a friend, Naima Prevots, head of the dance department at America
 Charles Kendall O'Neill, a writer of history, radio and television scripts and short stories, died on June 19 at his home in Green Farms, Conn. He was 87. Born in Bridgeport, Conn., Mr. O'Neill graduated from Dartmouth College and contributed stories to national magazines and script
 Irwin Rosen, a Harvard Square bookseller who sold esoteric works to two generations of academics and weathered the rise of superstores, died on Thursday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge. He was 93 and lived in Cambridge. Mr. Rosen died of complications from a head injury he suffere
 Lyman Mark Tondel Jr., a retired partner in the Manhattan-based international law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton and a past president of the New York State Bar Association, died on June 18 in Aurora, Colo., where he had lived for the last seven years. He was 84 and had lived in 
 CRANE-Winthrop Murray III. Age 86, of 101 Main St, Dalton, MA. Retired vice president of Crane & Co, died at his home on Saturday, June 28, 1997. A memorial service will be held in the First Congregational Church of Dalton on September 6, 1997, at 11 AM, with Rev. Robert R. Kyte, pastor of 
 FERNANDEZ-Jose. On Friday, June 27, 1997. Survived by his wife, Nieves, and five children, Rogelia Iglesias, Maria E. Bethencourt, Jesus, Caridad Fernandez, and Juan. Grandfather of ten. Funeral services were held at Moritz Funeral Home, Tappan, NY, on Sunday.       
 FREUND-Lucas S. Beloved son of Barbara and Peter. Devoted brother of Charlotte. Loving grandson of Joel and Arlene Kirschenbaum and M.G. John and Margaret Freund. Adored nephew and cousin. Service Monday, 10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, c
 HOROWITZ-Jack. Of New York City, on June 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Mildred; brother to Edna, Saul and the late Pauline; cherished uncle; valued friend to all who knew him. Funeral service at 11 AM, on Tuesday, July 1, at Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah, New Cedar Park Cemetery, F
 KOMOROFF-Samuel, age 92, died June 28. Lawyer and entertainer. He is survived by his daughter Ellen Reiss, son Brooks, grandchildren Steven, Robert, Michael and Eric, and great-grandchildren James and Joshua. Services Monday, 12 noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MARIN-Dragan. We mourn the loss of our ''Kum,'' friend and supporter. His optimistic and positive attitude always encouraged us in our work. We will miss his warm personality and his friendship. Deepest sympathies extended to his family. Memory Eternal. St. Sava Restoration and Development 
 McCORMICK-Kenneth D. Age 91, on June 27, 1997, in NYC. Suvived by his wife Anne, daughter Dale, sons Kevin and John, and grandchildren Eric, Sherrill and Paley. Funeral Mass at Holy Name Church, 96th St and Amsterdam Ave, Wednesday, July 2, 10:30 AM.       
 MILHORAT-Ade T. M.D. We deeply mourn the passing of our longtime friend, whose pioneering research conducted at New York Hospital in the 1940s and great concern for the patients he served sparked the creation of MDA, the world's foremost agency dedicated to the defeat of neuromuscular disea
 PENA-Lucas. June 28, in NYC. He is survived by his first wife, Rosa Pena and her children Dinorah, Rose, Lucas Jr., and his second wife, Yolande B. Pena and her son Reynaldo Pena; his grandchildren Christopher, Amanda, Cynthia, Lucas III, and Leander. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebr
 PRINCENTHAL-Philip. On June 28, of Alzheimer's disease. Beloved husband of Doris. Cherished father of Burt and Nancy. Devoted grandfather of Jacob and Milo. Memorial service Monday at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to the NYC Cha
 REGAN-James P. On June 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Brian and Maureen Regan Clark. Dear grandfather of James, Erin and Brianna. Fond brother of Helen Regan. Lifetime resident of NYC, veteran of World War II, retired Battalion Chief, FDNY, founder of James P. Regan
 STONE-Martin. On June 29. Survived by his daughter, Robin Stone Fratto; his mother, Lee Stone; and brothers, Joel and Steven. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 William L. Turnbull Jr., an architect whose early collaboration with Charles Moore led to a career of buildings that earnestly and profoundly expressed a sense of place, died Thursday at his home in Sausalito, Calif. He was 62. The cause was cancer, according to his wife, Mary Griff
