 AARONS--George ''Slim'', Photo-journalist of Catonah, NY, died Tuesday May 30. Slim is survived by his wife, Lorita Dewart Aarons of San Francisco, their daughter Mary Dewart Aarons, and her partner Robert Kent of Gloucester, MA, nine nieces and nephews and eight great nieces and nephews. S
 ALDWELL - Edward. Mannes College and The New School mourn the passing of Edward Aldwell, distinguished pianist, educator, learned musician, and scholar. Over several decades, Ed taught and helped launch the careers of many pianists, unstintingly imparting his knowledge and artistry to gener
 CASSON--Dr. Phillip Raynor. Died on May 29 following a recent illness. Born in Sydney, Australia, Dr. Casson graduated from the Sydney High Boys School and went on to attend the Sydney University medical School. After graduating with a BS and MB in medicine he went to Broome, Australia, to 
 CONWAY--James F., Sr. On May 28, 2006, age 79, of Stuart, FL. Formerly of Haddonfield, NJ, and the beloved husband of Grace (nee Roseman). Mr. Conway is also survived by three children, James, Jr., of Medford, NJ, Barbara, of Haddonfield, NJ, and Cricket, of Mountain Lakes, NJ, and nine gra
 FABIAN--G. Leslie. Michael Capasso, Diane Martindale and the Board of Directors of Dicapo Opera Theatre, Dr. William Preister, Chair mourn the passing of our friend and benefactor, G. Leslie Fabian. Our thoughts and prayers are with his beloved wife Jo, our dear and devoted Trustee.       
 FIAMMA--August E. ''Gus'', of Merrick, NY and recently Boca Raton, FL, on May 27, 2006. Beloved Husband for 54 years of Loretta. Loving father of Stephen, Ronald, Eugene and Susan. Adored father-in-law of Fabrizia and Giancarlo. Deeply loved grandfather of Lavinia, Maria Cristina, Diego, Fl
 PALMER--Edward L., of Mill Neck, NY, passed away peacefully on May 27th at the age of 88. He was the beloved husband of Margaret P. Palmer, his wife of 66 years, and the devoted father of Ned Palmer and Jane Palmer Morrison. He is also survived by his loving grandchildren, Edward L. Palmer 
 ROSSBERG--Julie. We are devastated at the loss of our lifelong friend, whose smile and humor will be with us always. Our love for Doris and his children is forever. Stanley and Caryl Fuchs       
 TOOMIM--David. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with profound sorrow the death of David Toomim of Houston, TX, a longtime member and, since 2004, an honorary member of its Board of Trustees. In a variety of roles, David served the Union with great distinction. We extend deepest condolenc
 TSUDOME--Shinji, on May 28th, 2006 peacefully. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to a fund for his daughters. For this info and memorial service details, call 914-393-3118       
 GRUENBERGER--Leslie. On May 30, 2006. Beloved husband for over 70 years of Olga, deceased October 4, 2005; father of Peter and Joyce; grandfather of Karen, Richard, Laurie, Lynn and Jon; great grandfather of Brian, Ethan, Jared, Kyra, Maya and Olivia; and brother of Shani and Aranka. He was
 Slim Aarons, whose charm won the trust of jet-setters and movie stars and whose cameras captured fleeting, golden images as his favorites subjects played and preened in a privacy almost unimaginable today, died on Tuesday in Montrose, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was complications of a
 AARONS -- George ''Slim'', Photo-journalist of Katonah, NY, died Tuesday May 30. Slim is survived by his wife, Lorita Dewart Aarons of San Francisco, their daughter Mary Dewart Aarons, and her partner Robert Kent of Gloucester, MA, nine nieces and nephews and eight great nieces and nephews.
 BERDY--William. Bill was a gentleman and a mensch. He died peacefully with a song in his heart. He'll always be remembered by his loving wife Lee, his daughters, Michelle, Lauren and Allison; sons-inlaw, Andrew Howland, John White and Bill Rosson and grandsons Walker, Tyler and Cole. Contri
 CASSON--Phillip R., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Executive Director and Staff of the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction wish to express their sympathy and their condolences to Rosemary and her family on the passing of Phillip R. Casson, M.D. He was a longtime member of the NFFR Bo
 DUNN--Norman S. of Pound Ridge, NY and Boston, MA on May 31, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife Mildred, his son Jeffrey, his brother Arnold, several nieces and nephews, and his muchadored grandchildren, Lucas and Noah. Born in Woonsocket, RI on September 17, 1921, he graduated cum la
 HENDLER--Marcia, on May 31st, 2006 in Boca Raton, FL. Loving wife of Richard for over 52 years. Adored mother of Jeffrey, Paul and Steven and their wives Doreen, Shelly and Janice. Cherished Grandmother of Isaac and his wife Alison, Jack, Eric, Sonia, Samuel, Matthew and Sadye and Great - g
 JUAN--Dr. Paul L., a longtime resident of Bronxville, died on Wednesday, May 31, 2006. He was born to Paul Leo Juan and Lillian St. Jean Juan on February 9, 1935 in Greenwich, CT. Paul attended Fordham University, and University of Ottawa School of Medicine. Paul did his internship and resi
 VERCESI - Anthony. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Anthony Vercesi, on May 30, 2006. Tony was a man who celebrated life, a wise and gentle soul who cared deeply for his family and friends. We miss him, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Brenda, his attentive son
 WHITE--Donald N., passed away on May 24, 2006 in the Bronx, NY. He leaves behind daughter Elaine Niceley; sonin-law Christopher; daughters Karen and Kelly; and nephew Rev. C. Bernard Ruffin. Service will be held on Saturday, June 3, 2006 at 2:30 PM. Granby's Funeral Service, Inc., Bronx, NY
 Perry R. Bass, the patriarch of a family that came to symbolize wealth and oil in Texas, died yesterday at the age of 91. Mr. Bass was at the center of a family business that traces its origins to Sid Richardson, the Texas wildcatter who borrowed $40 from Mr. Bass's mother during th
 Raymond Davis Jr., a chemist at Brookhaven National Laboratory who won a Nobel Prize in Physics for capturing evanescent particles known as neutrinos from the sun, died on Wednesday at his home in Blue Point, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said h
 Steve Mizerak, who sank his first pocket billiards shot at age 4, became a national champion while a full-time schoolteacher, then emerged as a pop-culture celebrity after doing television beer commercials, died Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart ailment tha
 Alan Kotok, a computer designer who helped create the first video game program as a member of a small group of M.I.T. students in the early 1960's, died at his home in Cambridge, Mass., on May 26. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Leah Kotok, said. As a 
 Edward Aldwell, a pianist and scholar who was a major exponent of Bach's keyboard works and the co-author of a standard music theory textbook, died on Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y., of injuries suffered in an accident near his country house in Kerhonkson, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.  
 ALDWELL--Edward. There was no finer performer of the works of J.S. Bach than pianist Edward Aldwell. His live recitals were life-changing experiences for his listeners, leaving indelible images etched in the memory. He was one of the great treasures of our musical community, and as one of m
 CANTOR--Sol, W. Passed away June 2, 2006. He was the light of our lives for 95 years. An exceptional man, his business acumen was exceeded only by his commitment to his family. Cherished husband of Muriel and the late Hermina. Beloved father of Robert and Margo Cantor and Ellen and Arthur K
 CHERNISH--Herbert. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Herbert Chernish and extends sincere sympathy to his wife and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 HANRAHAN--James F., Sr. James F. Hanrahan, Sr., innovative educator and founder of St. Thomas More School in Oakdale, CT and devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend has died at the age of 82 surrounded by family. Jim leaves his beloved wife Patricia (Sweeney), 13 children, 33 grandc
 HENDLER--Marcia, on May 31st, 2006 in Boca Raton, FL. Loving wife of Richard for over 52 years. Adored mother of Jeffrey, Paul and Steven and their wives Doreen, Shelly and Janice. Cherished Grandmother of Isaac and his wife Alison, Jack, Eric, Sonia, Samuel, Matthew and Sadye and Great - g
 JONAS--Seymour. Grandpa died on May 31, 2006 after a long and valiant battle with cancer. He leaves behind his wife, children, daughters-inlaw and grandchildren which he adored. Grandpa was a brilliant man with a love of gardening, fixing everything, The Times crossword puzzles and most imp
 KLEBANOW--Hy. August 14, 1915 to June 1, 2006. Gentleman, friend, mentor, a distinguished artist and founder of graphic arts company Kleb Associates, Inc., serving national accounts, he encouraged others to appreciate the joy of art and the art of seeing. Survived by a son and daughter, fou
 MARK--Stanley. 80 years old. Died June 2. Beloved husband of Joan, devoted father of Nancy (Larry Honig), Carol (John Garger), and Harvey. Brother of the late Herbert Mark. Stepfather of John Gevertz (Susan), the late Bruce Gevertz (Jackie), Carrie Sheer (Paul Bourget), Andrew Sheer and Wil
 NADORF--Ben. 1919-2006. An icon of the boxing world has died. Ben Nadorf, 87, passed away on June 1, 2006, in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. A WWII veteran, Mr. Nadorf was President of Everlast Sports Manufacturing Corp. from 1957 to 2000. He made Everlast the national and international brand of 
 OVED-WEISS--Or, 23, beloved son of Inbal Oved and Mark and Cathy Weiss, died suddenly and tragically in Bangkok, Thailand. Or was a loving and adored son, a worshipped caring brother and an inspiration to all who knew him. He served with distinction as a Sergeant, First Class in Sayeret Duv
 PEARCE -- Richard Inman. Died June 1 after a short illness. Richard is survived by his wife, Nancy Muir Pearce, his four sons, Richard, Steuart, Peter, Michael; three step-children, Katharine, Andrew, Morgan; twelve grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Born in Hewlett, L.I. on Septemb
 ROBERTS--Hon. George F. The legal profession will forever miss, but always remember, the humanity, wisdom and sharp wit of a most insightful jurist and good friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and to his beloved, Justice Jacqueline W. Silbermann. Herman, Sloan, Robarge & 
 Dr. Ronald E. Cranford, a neurologist, bioethicist and brain injury expert who helped establish clearer standards to determine when a patient is in a deep coma or a vegetative state, died Wednesday in Minneapolis. He was 65. The cause was complications of kidney cancer, his family s
 Ruben F. Mettler, a former chief executive of the aerospace company TRW and a leader in the development of America's ballistic missile program, died at his home in Los Angeles on May 23. He was 82. Mr. Mettler had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 2004, Dan McClai
 Dr. Fritz Klein, a psychiatrist and sex researcher who studied bisexuals and their relationships and later helped start a foundation for promoting bisexual culture, died on May 24 at his home in San Diego. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his companion, Tom Reise.      
 Gen. Johann-Adolf Count von Kielmansegg, a German panzer division officer during World War II who became commander in chief of NATO forces in Central Europe during the height of the cold war, died on May 26 in Bonn. He was 99. His son Hanno von Kielmansegg of Celle, Germany, confirm
 ALDWELL--Edward, brilliant performing artist, master teacher, and gifted author of music textbooks, is forever etched in the memories of his many students and colleagues at Curtis over the past 35 years. He brought a performer's intensity, a scholar's intellect, and a deep humanity overflow
 BENARIO--Ernest. On June 1, 2006, my beloved husband and father of our sons Peter and Jeffrey, died after a long illness at the age of 82. He will be missed by all who had the privilege of knowing him. He was drafted into the United States Army at the age of 19, he graduated from Camp Richi
 CANTOR--Sol, W. Passed away June 2, 2006. He was the light of our lives for 95 years. An exceptional man, his business acumen was exceeded only by his commitment to his family. Cherished husband of Muriel and the late Hermina. Beloved father of Robert and Margo Cantor and Ellen and Arthur K
 DEL MONTE--LeRoy, 82, on May 23, 2006 in Norwalk, CT after a long illness. Survived by sister Ruth Del Monte and companion Irena Dizer. Roy was a successful private investor. He attended Syracuse University, leaving to serve in the Pacific theater in WWII. Roy was married to the late Helen 
 FABIAN--G. Leslie on May 30, 2006. Beloved husband of Jo Phelps Fabian. Loving father of the late Barbara Fabian. Brother of George Fabian of Bryn Mawr, PA. Uncle of Andrew Fabian of Philadelphia, PA and Jennifer Fabian Browning of Washington, DC. Funeral private. $(6$)FABIAN--G. Le
 GOODMAN--Barbara F. Beloved Barbara, we'll miss you so much, our hearts are broken. We have shared a lifetime together starting when you were the most adorable freshman to grace a Harvard campus. From the moment Roy met you at that ''freshman mixer'' he was smitten for life. When Larry met 
 HANRAHAN--James F., Sr. James F. Hanrahan, Sr., innovative educator and founder of St. Thomas More School in Oakdale, CT and devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend has died at the age of 82 surrounded by family. Jim leaves his beloved wife Patricia (Sweeney), 13 children, 33 grandc
 KAMPEL--Daniel S. A beloved husband and stepfather, passed away on May 31, 2006 at his home in Manhattan. His investment abilities and a wide range of philanthropic interests were an inspiration to a lot of people. He supported young artists, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and a research at H
 LAYZER -- Arthur James, died May 28th. Loving husband and father-talented and original and devoted. Memorial service at Temple EmanuEl, One East 65th Street, NYC, June 5, 2006, 3pm. Donations to Americans for Peace Now. $(6$)LAYZER--ARTHUR J.Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New 
 MARK--Stanley. 80 years old. Died June 2. Beloved husband of Joan, devoted father of Nancy (Larry Honig), Carol (John Garger), and Harvey. Brother of the late Herbert Mark. Stepfather of John Gevertz (Susan), the late Bruce Gevertz (Jackie), Carrie Sheer (Paul Bourget), Andrew Sheer and Wil
 MASLOW - Lester. Died peacefully at 91. Served in the U.S. Army as an officer in WWII. Father of Jane and James. Grandfather of Jamie. Stepfather of Patricia Sheridan and Michael Cantor. Brother of Arthur and Robert. Longtime member of Fresh Meadow and Boca Rio Country Clubs. President Beth
 MASON--Stephen W., Jr. of Fort Lauderdale, FL passed on May 17, 2006. Son of the late Stephen W. and Tacy (Duckworth) Mason of Hatboro, PA, grandson of the late Mrs. Adella Biddle Duckworth of Philadelphia, PA, and great-grandson of the late Pierre LeGaux, former governor of Martinique, Mr.
 MOSER--James,Graduate of Brown and noted Editor at Doubleday and Grove Press. His enthusiasm and insight of life was captivating. Service Tuesday 6/6, 11am at Verean Baptist Church, 1635 Bergen Street, Brooklyn. Donations in James' name to Brighton Heights Scholarship Fund, Brighton Heights
 NADORF--Ben. 1919-2006. An icon of the boxing world has died. Ben Nadorf, 87, passed away on June 1, 2006, in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. A WWII veteran, Mr. Nadorf was President of Everlast Sports Manufacturing Corp. from 1957 to 2000. He made Everlast the national and international brand of 
 OVED-WEISS--Or, 23, beloved son of Inbal Oved and Mark and Cathy Weiss, died suddenly and tragically in Bangkok, Thailand. Or was a loving and adored son, a worshipped caring brother and an inspiration to all who knew him. He served with distinction as a Sergeant, First Class in Sayeret Duv
 PALMER--Edward L. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Edward Palmer, who was elected a Trustee in 1982 and a Trustee Emeritus in 1985. Over those many years, he was a devoted supporter of the Metropolitan, lending his time and wisdom to the evolving ne
 RUSSELL--William James. Passed away On Thursday, June 1, 2006 of natural causes at the age of 90 years. William was born in Clinton, MA, in 1915. He was a graduate of Clark University where he received his bachelor's degree and Syracuse University for his master's degree. Shortly after WWII
 SAWYER--Norman Radack, of New York City and Sharon, CT on June 3rd. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. He is survived by Annette his wife of 59 years and children Rachel Sawyer and James Little, son Herb, grandchildren Nina and Billy Sawyer and brother David Sawyer of Sherman
 SCHARRER - Richard. On May 31, 2006. Knickerbocker Yacht Club mourns the passing of our dear friend and club manager. Our guiding spirit for 30 years will be deeply missed. Our sympathies to his wife Sherry, children Richard and Kelly, and brother William.       
 SILVERMAN--Donald N. Retired Justice of the NY Supreme Court, died on Friday, June 2nd, at the age of 58, after a courageous, prolonged battle with lung cancer. Senior partner at Silverman, Bikkal & Sandberg, LLP, Judge Silverman was the founding Chair of the Westchester County Human Rights
 SINOWITZ--Max. Died June 2, 2006, at 91. President Chelsea Advertising Inc. Founder, former President League of Advertising Agencies. Beloved husband of Sylvia Poloner. Adoring father of Stanley (Lois Cooper) and Betty. Grandfather of Laura (Dr. Todd) Garber, Carolyn (Scott) Richter, Brian 
 SPUT--Murray. 30 days ago our tiny group of classmatesholocaust survivors became smaller yet. Murray died on May 6, 2006. A prominent New York architect, a man of high integrity, a most reliable and trusted friend, he enjoyed his professional life as well as retirement, which permitted him 
 WEISS--Or Oved, 23, The members of the Aspatuck Tennis Club offer our heart felt condolences to our fellow member Mark Weiss and his family on the loss of a son and a brother.       
 Michael Riffaterre, an internationally renowned literary theorist and critic who specialized in the study of French literature, died on May 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. At his death, Mr. Riffater
 Onwin S. Primus Borde, a percussionist known for his work in dance and theater, died on May 21 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, said Margaret Goodfellow, a longtime friend. Mr. Borde, the son of the dancers and choreographers Pearl Primu
 CANTOR--Sol W. Funeral service today, at noon, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave and 81st St. $(6$)CANTOR--Sol W. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our longtime friend, generous supporter, and former member of our Board of Overseers. His 
 FRIED--Herbert R. Passed away peacefully at his home on June 3 at the age of 97. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Devoted father of Eleanor Brown and Harriet and Bernard Shavitz. Cherished grandfather of Robert and Mica Brown, Carole and John Serper, Jeff and Jill Shavitz, Gregg and Eliza
 GOODMAN--Barbara F. Beloved Barbara, we'll miss you so much, our hearts are broken. We have shared a lifetime together starting when you were the most adorable freshman to grace a Harvard campus. From the moment Roy met you at that ''freshman mixer'' he was smitten for life. When Larry met 
 GREW--Kevin A. 42, died Friday, June 2, 2006 at NY Presbyterian Hospital. He was the son of Helen M. Grew and the late John E. Grew. He is survived by his sisters, brothers and their families-Donna, Frank, Ryan and Lynsey McQuade; Brian, Charlene and Jennifer Grew; John, Heather, Troy, Aust
 MASLOW - Lester. Died peacefully at 91. Served in the U.S. Army as an officer in WWII. Father of Jane and James. Grandfather of Jamie. Stepfather of Patricia Sheridan and Michael Cantor. Brother of Arthur and Robert. Longtime member of Fresh Meadow and Boca Rio Country Clubs. President Beth
 SAWYER--Norman Radack, of New York City and Sharon, CT on June 3rd. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother. He is survived by Annette his wife of 59 years and children Rachel Sawyer and James Little, son Herb, grandchildren Nina and Billy Sawyer and brother David Sawyer of Sherman
 Spencer B. Witty, the last of four brothers whose company, Witty Brothers, fashioned and sold elegant men's clothing through a small, prestigious chain of stores in New York, died May 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his 
 Alex Toth, an influential comic book artist best known for his work on ''Zorro'' and for his animation on children's television shows like ''Jonny Quest,'' died on May 27 at his home in Burbank, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Eric Toth, who said that hi
 Bernard Loomis, who had no toys as a child but became a toy industry legend by using children's television to turn Star Wars dolls, Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears into stupendous successes, died on Friday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82. The cause was heart di
 Eric Gregg, who umpired in the major leagues for more than two decades while battling a craving for food and drink that spotlighted health concerns surrounding overweight umpires, died yesterday in Philadelphia. He was 55. His death was announced by his son Kevin, who said he had a 
 CASSON--Phillip. The Officers, Committees and staff of the Pawling Mountain Club , Pawling, N.Y. mourns the loss of one of its founding members Dr. Phillip Casson an avid sportsman and dear friend. Sympathies to his wife Rosemary, daughters Nicole, Victoria and Lindsy. He will be truly miss
 JONES--Clinton R. The entire Bard community mourns the death of Clinton R. Jones, Class of 1938, loyal alumnus, former trustee, and trustee associate. His service to and love of Bard was unwavering and unequaled. As a member of the Episcopal clergy, he was a pioneer in the promotion of tole
 KAMINSKY--Jack. 94, passed away on June 4, 2006. He was the beloved husband of the late Florence. He is survived by his son Dr. Allan Kaminsky, daughter Phyllis Karess, brother Sidney and seven grandchildren. Service 9:45am at Parkside Funeral Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd, Rego Park, N.Y. $(6$
 MASLOW--Lester. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Lester Maslow, an esteemed friend whose lifetime of philanthropic leadership was fueled by deep commitment to the New York Jewish community. Lester, together 
 SILVERMAN--Donald. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Donald Silverman, a cherished friend deeply devoted to humanitarian causes. Donald's dedication is shared by his sister, Mary Ann Siskind, and brother-inlaw, Arthur Siskind, who
 The conductor Richard Kapp, who founded and led the Philharmonia Virtuosi, a chamber orchestra, and released a series of classical ''greatest hits'' records, died on Sunday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Barbara Borders Kapp. Mr
 Sol W. Cantor, an early proponent of discount retailing featuring warehouse-style stores, died Friday in Manhattan, his son, Robert, said. He was 95. Born and raised in New York City, Mr. Cantor began his retailing career on the Lower East Side, selling fabric. He joined Int
 Arnold Newman, the portrait photographer whose pictures of some of the world's most eminent people set a standard for artistic interpretation and stylistic integrity in the postwar age of picture magazines, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper West Side. The
 Billy Preston, the splashy gospel-rooted keyboardist whose career included No. 1 solo hits and work with the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 59. He died after having been in a coma since November, his manager, Joyce Moore, told The Associat
 Claude Terrail, owner of La Tour d'Argent, a Paris restaurant, died on June 1. He was 88. His death was announced yesterday by the restaurant, which did not say where he died. Until just a few months ago, the tall, imposing Mr. Terrail, with his flashing smile, impeccable ta
 Hilton Ruiz, a versatile and prolific pianist equally at home in the worlds of modern jazz and Latin music, died yesterday in New Orleans. He was 54 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. His death was announced by his agent, Joel Chriss. Mr. Ruiz had been hospitalized in a coma since May 19, w
 GOODMAN--Barbara F.The Board and Staff of Citizens for NYC mourn the untimely passing of the beloved wife of our Board member Senator Roy Goodman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Senator and his family in this difficult time. Osborn Elliott, Founding Chairman Henry Cornell, Chair
 HUNTING--Roger Bryant. Died in Richmond VA on June 3rd at the age of 85. He had previously lived in New York for 45 years where he practiced law with Greenbaum Wolff & Ernst and retired in 1992 after 8 years of service as a New York City Civil Court Judge. Beloved husband, father, grandfath
 KAMPEL--Daniel. The Board of Trustees, officers and staff of HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, fondly and warmly remember Daniel Kampel for his devoted service as a Board member. Dan's passion for the HIAS mission was endearing and became a part of his core values. In addition to bein
 NEWMAN--Arnold. On June 6, 2006. Renowned photographer for 65+ years. He is survived by his wife, Augusta, sons Eric and David, grandchildren Mark, Sarah, Daniel & Emma. Services Thursday 1 PM at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue 30 W. 68th St.       
 SAPIENZA--Paul D. of Jamaica, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Estelle K., dear uncle of Neal, his wife Kathleen, Rosemary and Mary Jeanne. Survived by grand-nephews, Neal, Paul and William. Reposing at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 125 Hillside Avenue, New Hyde Park, N.Y., Thursday, 2
 LAUTERSTEIN--Ronald. The Mailman School of Public Health is deeply saddened by the passing of Ronald H. Lauterstein, Class of '58, a beloved alumnus and esteemed member of the School's Board of Advisors. He died on May 8 , at his home in Toronto. An active participant in alumni activities a
 COLNER--Morris A. 93, of West Orange, NJ and Longboat Key, FL died June 6 in Sarasota, FL. Beloved husband of Ruth for 64 years and cherished father of Deborah Goldberg, and Martin, Alan and Leonard Colner; dear father-in-law of Jack Goldberg, Robin Colner and Simone Oppenheimer-Colner; joy
 DRAYTON--Parnell. Former Board Member of Greater Harlem Nursing Home. The Board and Staff are deeply saddened by his passing. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Edna and family. Rodney Alexander, President Roscoe C. Brown Jr. Chairman Emeritus       
 NEWMAN--Arnold. On June 6, 2006. Renowned photographer for 65+ years. He is survived by his wife, Augusta, sons Eric and David, grandchildren Mark, Sarah, Daniel & Emma. Services Thursday 1 PM at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue 30 W. 68th St. $(6$)NEWMAN--Arnold/d. His passing is a great loss t
 ROSS--Robert. Bob Ross devoted his life to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, taking it from a handful of local chapters to an internationally renowned nonprofit organization. As MDA's top executive for more than 40 years, Bob can be credited with virtually every achievement made by MDA --
 TUFTS--Arthur James died on June 4 at age of 92. As VP of Life Office Management Association, he worked for the industry adoption of preauthorized checks for premium payments & a standardized change of beneficiary form. Memorial June 11, 2:30PM at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ.       
 AZRIELOWICZ - Ephraim. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing in Israel of the beloved brother of our Trustee and Benefactor, David J. (and Stephanie) Azrieli for whom the Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration is named. A retired metallurgical engi
 LAUTERSTEIN--Ronald. The Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, is deeply saddened by the passing of Ronald H. Lauterstein, Class of '58, a beloved alumnus and esteemed member of the School's Board of Advisors. He died on May 8 in Toronto. An active participant in alumni acti
 Wayne Hage, a cattleman who won a significant legal case affirming the rights of ranchers to have their herds graze and drink water on federally owned land, died Monday at his ranch in Tonopah, Nev. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his son, also named Wayne Hage. In 199
 Caleb D. Hammond Jr., who was president of C. S. Hammond & Company, the map makers, from 1948 to 1974, died Monday in Summit, N.J. He was 90 and lived in Maplewood, N.J. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Dean Hammond, who later headed the company. Mr. Ha
 Dr. Harold F. Falls, an ophthalmologist whose early studies of inherited abnormalities shed light on how diseases pass between generations, died on May 27 in Brighton, Mich. He was 96. Dr. Falls's death was confirmed by his family. Beginning in the 1930's, Dr. Falls spent hi
 Howard Rosenstone, a prominent theatrical agent who helped shepherd the work of some of the country's most distinguished playwrights and lyricists onto the stage, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was pulmonary failure, said Phyllis Wender, his partner
 Ken McIntyre, a star guard who helped propel an underdog St. John's team to the Holiday Festival and National Invitation Tournament championships in 1965 to bring a stirring conclusion to Coach Joe Lapchick's Hall of Fame career, died May 31. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his bro
 Kemoko Sano, the choreographer and director who founded Les Merveilles de Guinée, an African dance and music troupe, died on May 25 in Conakry, Republic of Guinea. Mr. Sano was unsure of his birth date and is believed to have been in his mid-70's. The cause was complications of dia
 McCULLOUGH--John P. Of Princeton died unexpectedly in his home on Tuesday, June 6, 2006 at age of 81. He was a long-time resident of Princeton and a retired executive from Mobil Oil Corporation in Pennington. He is survived by his wife, Ann Calvert McCullough; three daughters, Sherrill M. D
 RECNY--Christopher John. Passed away peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family and friends on June 4, 2006, aged 52 years. He will be greatly missed by his wife, Jane, his children, Loveday, Myles and EmilyJane, his mother, brothers, sisters and many friends. Private funeral servic
 SIMMONS--Jack L., 86, of New York, NY, passed away on June 7, 2006, in Gainesville, FL. Born in Montgomery, AL, and later moving to New York. Mr. Simmons worked for International Longevity Center. He received his Master's degree from Fordam University and also served in the U.S. Navy. Mr. S
 TEITELBAUM -- Herbert I., age 80, passed away on June 8, 2006. Cherished husband of Renee (nee Landwehr), and beloved father of Gary (Nerine), and Amy Nelson (Joel). Adored grandfather to Ashleigh, Meredith, Stacy, Jonathan, Chretien and Colton. He graduated from Bronx Science H.S. and City
 Wilber B. Huston, whose selection by Thomas A. Edison as the nation's ''brightest boy'' in 1929 launched him into the intellectual stratosphere but eventually gave him a solid career on the ground as a rocket scientist for NASA, died on May 25 in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 93. Mr.
 Charles F. Brush III, an archaeologist who as president of the Explorers Club persuaded his brethren to take on a singular adventure -- admitting women to their den of stuffed polar bears, tarantula appetizers and overstuffed armchairs -- died on June 1 in Manhattan. He was 83. The 
 BALMER--John Wrennel. 82, of Monmouth Beach, died April 19, 2006, at Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ. Born in Atlantic Highlands, he grew up and lived in Asbury Park where he graduated from Asbury Park High School in 1943. For the past several years, John lived in Monmouth Beach. A
 BURNSIDE--W. Glen. Died June 4. Loving husband and best friend to Jeanne Wigand. Sadly missed by his family and friends in Canada and NY. If desired, memorial donations to the Elija Foundation (www.elija.org). www.morrisfuneralchapel.ca       
 CALLAN--Irving on June 9, 2006. Formerly of River Edge, NJ. Survived by his wife Beatrice (Jacobs), daughters and sons in law Ilene and David Siscovick of Seattle WA and Loren and James Rosenzweig of Brookline MA, grandchildren Benjamin, Johnathan and Miriam Siscovick and Anne David and Rac
 CHEMLA--Fernand Joseph (Pino). Died peacefully on Thursday, June 8, 2006, at the age of 92. He was greatly loved by his wife Edmee, his children Franck, Alexandre, Muriel and Daniele, his children-in-law Claude, Lori and Claude as well as his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Funeral s
 deSIMONE--Jack A. Aged 88, on May 31, 2006 while in the paradise island of KohSamui,Thailand. Distinguished associate to many in the performing arts and politics in New York City. Predeceased by his joyful wife, Adele and son Paul, survived by his daughter Diane, brother Anthony and sister 
 FISHER--Richard. Died suddenly in Vienna, Austria on June 6. He is survived by his companion of thirty years, Kevin Poulis, brother Barry Fisher, nephew Steven Fisher & niece Sharon Socherman. He was a world traveler and died doing what he loved the most. We will sincerely miss him. Tina Si
 HALPERN--Dr. Seymour. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our longtime devoted member, Dr. Seymour Halpern, beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Vivienne, Ronald, and Adrienne. The Halperns have been members of Rodeph Sholom for almost 50 years. Our deepest sympathy is extende
 KURZ--Israel Beloved husband, dearest father, grandfather, and great grandfather. Always there for all of us. A pillar for his community and his people.       
 LAZARUS--The Honorable Eli, 87 years old, died on June 7, 2006. Retired Judge of The Criminal Court of The City of New York. Retired Deputy Chief Inspector of The New York City Police Department. President of The Captains Endowment Association for eight years. He earned four university degr
 LEWIS--Norman. Joined his beloved wife Eva on June 6, 2006. Devoted father to Susan and Joan, he was a family man above all else. He cherished his home on Candlewood Lake and spent his summer days playing tennis, sailing, swimming and planting Pachysandra. An accomplished athlete, Norman ca
 LORY--Jonathan Michael. Born December 19, 1948, died on June 5, 2006. Loving son and grandson of the late Jack and Winifred Lory, Agnes Henry Feeley, and Isaac and Allegra Levy. He is survived by his beloved wife Carla, uncles Gerard Feeley and Edward Lory, and an extended family of devoted
 MAYER--Dolf 1918 - 2006 Scarsdale NY. Beloved husband of the late Jill Russek, father of Valerie (Tony Torcia), grandfather of Anthony Tiliacos, Danielle & Adam Torcia. Born Germany, educated France, Holland & Scotland. Served in US Army, translator at liberation of Buchenwald & Nuremberg T
 MIGNOGNA--Frank V., MD Died May 29. He is survived by wife Holly, children James, Lisa and Anthony. Grandchildren Jake and Julia, and his shaggy three. Memorial Service will be held June 22nd at 12:00 Noon at St. Matthews Episcopal Church, Bedford NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be ma
 ROTHMAN--Lester D., in New York City on June 6 at the age of 94. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Dr. Rothman graduated from NYU School of Medicine and practiced Internal Medicine in New York for over 60 years. He was also a veteran of World War II, serving as a Flight Surgeon in the Army Air Fo
 RUSSO--Robert A. Born October 27, 1917. It is with great sadness that we say goodbye to our father, Robert A. Russo, who passed away on June 7, 2006 after a short illness. Bob, as he was known to all was our steady hand in an ever changing world. His kindness, compassion and wisdom will gui
 SIMON--John L. Died peacefully at his home on June 8 following a courageous effort to overcome leukemia. Cherished father of Julie and brother of Richard (Maxine) Simon and Barbra and (Bruce) London. He is further survived by his beloved Lori and her daughters, his niece and nephews and clo
 STEIN--Samuel J. , M.D. On June 8, 2003. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Rosanne and David. Adoring grandfather of Ilene, Andrew, Heather and Rainbow. Great grandfather of Daniel. Selfless physician for over 70 years. Honored World War II veteran and amateur artist. Admired by e
 STEVEN--James R. Passed away on June 9, 2006 at the age of 87. A retired CCNY Professor of Civil Engineering and veteran of WWII, Jim is survived by his wife, two children, three step-children and nine grandchildren. Memorial service at Beecher Funeral Home in Pleasantville on Tuesday from 
 STIEFEL--Werner K., 85, died June 8, 2006 at VNA Hospice House near his home in Vero Beach. Born on March 10, 1921 in Brooklyn, NY, he grew up in Montclair, NJ and Preston Hollow, Albany County, NY and later resided for many years in Oak Hill, Greene County, NY. After his graduation from Ya
 ZISKIN--Philip F., Passed away on June 8th, 2006. He is now playing Black Jack, drinking scotch, and gone fishing with his buddy Herb. Great husband, father, grandfather, friend, and WWII vet. Your Loving Ziskin Family.       
 FERNANDEZ--Agustin. Anita Shapolsky Gallery deeply mourns the loss of an artist and great friend. A productive and widely respected individualist whose work is in numerous museum and private collections. Our deepest condolences to his loving family. He will be greatly missed by all who knew
 TEITELBAUM -- Herbert I., age 80, passed away on June 8, 2006. Cherished husband of Renee (nee Landwehr), and beloved father of Gary (Nerine), and Amy Nelson (Joel). Adored grandfather to Ashleigh, Meredith, Stacy, Jonathan, Chretien and Colton. He graduated from Bronx Science H.S. and City
 COLE--Bernard Michael, 84, of Boca Raton, passed June 11, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife Rita, by two loving children, Dr. Alan (Harriet) Cole, Stephanie (John) Eason, and by his wonderful grandchildren Dr. Lisa (Jonathan) Cole Olin, and Rebecca (Adam) Cole Lurie. He was president
 FLAHERTY--Mark, Sr.February 20th 1927-June 12th,2003. Still living in the hearts of those who love him. Ruth, Patricia and Mark Jr.       
 MEISEL--Irving. Irving S. Meisel, 84, of Scarborough, NY died late in the afternoon on Saturday, June 10 from complications of brain cancer. A marketing and advertising executive for the Browne Vintners Company of the Seagram Corporation and, later on, of the the Schiefflin Company, Mr. Mei
 NEWMAN--David. Died June 9, 2006 in NYC at 75. Survived by a wife, two brothers, two daughters and one grandson. He served in the Korean War. He owned and manufactured ladies sportswear. Contributions to Hospice Care, Visiting Nurse Service of NY.       
 SAFON--David M. Age 43, suddenly, on June 10, 2006. A partner in the New York office of Ford & Harrison, he was a widely respected labor and employment lawyer, admired for his personal integrity and character, as well as his knowledge and skills. Unassuming and forever giving, he was a form
 SOFFER--Joseph. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Joseph Soffer, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Violet, and their family. David C. Bubes,
 ROSENSTONE--Howard. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of Dramatists Play Service mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Howard was Vice President and a member of the Dramatist Play Service Board of Directors for over 10 years. Everyone will miss his love of the the
 Gyorgy Ligeti, the Central European composer whose music was among the most innovative of the last half of the 20th century -- sometimes eerie, sometimes humorous usually fantastical and always polished -- died yesterday in Vienna. He was 83. His family confirmed his death but decli
 Kenneth R. Thomson, a shy art collector who built Canada's largest fortune by transforming his father's trans-Atlantic newspaper business into one of the world's leading providers of electronic data and information, died on Monday. He was 82. Mr. Thomson died unexpectedly in his Tor
 Moe Drabowsky, who set a World Series strikeout record for a relief pitcher but was equally renowned as one of baseball's most accomplished pranksters, died Saturday in Little Rock, Ark. He was 70. His death was announced by Liz Caldwell, a spokeswoman for the University of Arkansas
 BAILEY--Robert J. Noted photographer and writer, and producer/host of the cable TV show, Poetry Live, passed away June 11, 2006 at age 64 after a struggle with cancer. He was the son of the late Edna Wheeler and Richard Bailey. Survived by Julie Hindra, his beloved wife, his brother Rick Ba
 BRUSH--Charles Francis III Ph.D. 83, of Shelter Island, New York, died peacefully in his sleep on Thursday, June 1, 2006. Dr. Brush was an archaeologist, former President of The Explorers Club, and a Director Emeritus of Brush Engineered Materials Inc. Beloved father of Barbara B. Wright, D
 GREER--Linda, Beloved wife of our business associate, and close friend, Len. Our condolences to his family.Walter and Bernice Kaye Merchant Factors Corp. $(6$)GREER--Linda. The American Jewish Congress extends its deepest condolences to our longtime friend and distinguished past hon
 JONES--Dr. Robert E., 77. Died peacefully on Saturday, June 3, 2006 at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. Raised in New York, he was a long-time resident of Boston's Back Bay and Professor Emeritus, Foreign Languages and Literatures at MIT. He also taught at the University of Penns
 McGRAW--Donald C., Jr, 81. Of Gulf Stream, Florida, passed away on June 11, 2006 after a long illness with heart disease and complications due to a stroke. He was married to Dorothea McGraw and is survived by three sons, Donald III ''Josh'', of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., Robert L.W., of Sheffi
 MIGNOGNA--Frank V., MD. Died May 29. He is survived by wife Holly, children James, Lisa and Anthony. Grandchildren Jake and Julia, and his shaggy three. Memorial Service will be held June 22 at 12 Noon at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, Bedford, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made
 RAYSMAN--Victor. Born in Lodz, Poland, September 15, 1914, died in Valley Stream, New York June 11, 2006. As a young engineering graduate, Victor fled Poland to escape Nazi persecution via Lithuania, Russia, Japan and Canada, arriving in New York City in 1944, where he married and establish
 SAFON--David. Our dear friend and wise counsel, we will miss you. Your warmth, caring, professionalism and ethics were unparalleled. The world has lost one of the truly special ones. Our deepest sympathies to Lisa, Jenny, Keith and Noah--you were the twinkle in his eye. Richard, Lila, Lesli
 SCHWEITZER--Meyer (Mac). Died peacefully June 10, 2006 at the age of 94 at New York Hospital. Mac left with the wish for peace on earth. World War II Sergeant, USAAC, world-class art dealer and founder of The Schweitzer Gallery. Survived by his beloved wife Frederika, son David, sister Fran
 STEINER--Daniel. Age 72, of Cambridge, on Sunday, June 11, 2006. Beloved husband of Prudence (Linder). Loving father of Elizabeth and Michael Hayward of Oregon and Joshua L. Steiner and Antoinette Delruelle of New York City. Cherished grandfather of Mira and Emma Hayward, Raphael, Margot an
 ROSENZWEIG--Jeffrey. In loving memory of our very dear friend Jeff, taken much too soon. An inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing him, he will live forever in our hearts. With all our love to Lizanne, the boys and family. Aronson, Chill, King, Rosenfeld & Yarnell Families     
 TEMKIN--Meyer. 6/13/26-6/ 13/05. His word was his bond His strength was his mind He was funny as hell Sometimes tough, always kind. Happy Birthday. I know you know how much I miss you. Liz       
 William G. Hundley, whose Brooklyn street smarts made him first a leader in the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations' fight against organized crime and then a sought-after defense lawyer for powerful people, died Sunday at his home in Vienna, Va. He was 80. The cause was liver can
 Charles J. Haughey, a three-time Irish prime minister who helped pave the way for Ireland's economic boom of the 1990's but whose own lavish accumulation of wealth tarnished his reputation and was partly responsible for driving him into retirement, died yesterday. He was 80. His dea
 Ingo Preminger, a Hollywood agent and producer who represented several blacklisted screenwriters the anti-Communist fervor of the postwar years, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 95. Mr. Preminger's family announced the death. A brother of the producer and
 Mike Quarry, a leading light-heavyweight boxer of the 1970's and a younger brother of the heavyweight contender Jerry Quarry, died Sunday in La Habra, Calif. He was 55. The cause was boxing-induced dementia, his sister Wilma Pearson told The Associated Press. Jerry Quarry, who had a
 BERKON--Samuel F., 101 years (3/3/1905 -6/12/2006). The rock and patriarch of our close family. Beloved husband of the late Sara. Father of Martin, Marilyn and Frederick. Grandfather of Jonathan and Benjamin. Daughtersin-law, Eileen and Susan. Famed New York City trial lawyer for over half 
 BRECK--William Rogers. Age 85, on June 12, 2006, of Bryn Mawr. Survived by his wife Lydia C.M. Breck; his children Liam Breck, and Lydia C. Schulz; also survived by two grandchildren. Funeral Service will be Thursday June 15 at 11:30 A.M. at the Church of The Good Shepherd, Lancaster and Mo
 deSIMONE--Jack. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Jack deSimone. Jack played a distinguished role in the history of Carnegie Hall. A tireless advocate on the Committee to Save Carnegie Hall, he joined the Board of Trustees of t
 DUMA--Michael George. On Sunday, June 11, 2006 at the age of 88. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Katherine Palam Duma, son and his wife, Dr. & Mrs. Christopher Duma of Newport Beach, and three grandchildren, Chace, Matthew and William Duma. A viewing will be held Friday from 2 to 5 
 McGRAW--Donald C., Jr. The entire community of Mystic Seaport - the Museum of America and the Sea-notes with sorrow the death of Donald C. McGraw, Jr. and extends its sincere sympathy to his family. Don served as a charter member and first Chairman of the Museum's National Council of Adviso
 ROSENFELD--Adolph (Al) of NYC. Beloved husband of 62 years of Elizabeth (Marlene), passed away in his 90th year. Served four years in the Army-Air Corps in China, Burma and India during WWII. Awarded the Bronze Star, retired as a Major. Founder and former publisher Frozen Food Age, a trade 
 WOLF--Alfred C. Of McLean, VA and Wellfleet, MA. died June 9 at Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, MA of complications following a hip fracture. He was 94. He devoted his life to public service and to the welfare of his family, who mourn him deeply, including his wife of sixty years, the former Ag
 ROSENZWEIG--Jeffrey S. Sutton Place Synagogue extends our deepest sympathies to dedicated members and benefactors Frieda and William Rosenzweig on the heartbreaking loss of their beloved son. Our sincere condolences to the entire bereaved family.Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President  
 Philip Merrill, an Annapolis publisher and former diplomat who has been missing since he set out for a solitary sail on Saturday afternoon, is now presumed to be dead by his family. He was 72 and lived on the Severn River in Arnold, Md. Mr. Merrill's 41-foot sailboat, Merrilly, turn
 Luis Jimenez, a sculptor whose color-splashed images of swirling dancers, roughneck cowboys in motion and the working class made him a controversial and easily recognized international figure in the art world, died Tuesday at his studio in rural Hondo, N.M. He was 65. The Lincoln Co
 AUGERI--Joseph. A legend in the cosmetics industry, Joe passed away peacefully on the morning of Sunday, June 11. Credited with turning Lancome into a household name, Joe was well respected not only for his business acumen, but also for his sociable disposition. The son of Italian immigrant
 BASCHKOPF--Joseph R., 90, of New York City, died peacefully on June 14, 2006. He will be missed dearly by his friends, family, and neighbors. Services are today, 11AM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Forest Ave., Paramus, NJ.       
 DUNLEAVY--Francis J. ''Tim'' on June 13, 2006, of Blue Bell, originally of East Germantown. Dear husband of Albina (nee Matuskowitz). Father of Michael F. (Nancy), Timmi Vesci (Jim), and the late Maureen J. and Susan H. Grandfather of Jim (Julie), Kevin, Tim, and Monica Vesci, and Mickey Sa
 GOTTLIEB--Lester, on June 7, 2006 at the age of 92. Loving husband of Ruth, patient father of Pamela, Michael, and Gabrielle. Grandfather of Audrey, Joshua, and Alexandra. Great grandfather of Kaitlynn and Josh. He was a bringer of light, music, and humor to the world. He sang with a clear,
 LESHE--Leonard. 92, on June 13, 2006. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, friend. We thought he would live forever.       
 LESSER--Saal D. (1924 - 2006). Died at peace of Alzheimer 's Disease on June 13, 2006. He was ever the adoring husband of Deborah (Silverman), doting father of Marc and Elizabeth Lesser, Robin and Chris Cordima, and Nina and Todd Insler and proud grandfather of Danielle, Madeleine, Matthew,
 MORRIS--Craig. It is with profound sadness that the Trustees, President, curators and entire staff of the American Museum of Natural History mourn the unexpected death of Dr. Craig Morris, Curator in the Division of Anthropology and longtime Dean of Science at the Museum. The loss to the Mu
 STREETER--Frank S. 88, on June 12, 2006, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Nancy Angell Streeter. Devoted father of Ellen S. Rhodes (Craig), Ruth Streeter (John), and Meg Streeter Lauck (Dan). Cherished grandfather of nine, great grandfather of five. Memorial Service Tuesday June 20
 WINTRUB--Warren G. Formerly of Stamford, CT died at his home in Boca Raton, FL on June 13th 2006 after a valiant battle with brain cancer. He was born on December 9, 1933 in Canton OH, son of the late Hy and Mollie Wintrub. He graduated from Ohio State University and Harvard Law School, bec
 CUNNINGHAM--Robert Joseph. Family friends , and his beloved team-mates mourn Bob's passing, June 13, at Memorial Hospital in Savannh, GA. A resident of Hilton Head Island, SC, Bob leaves his wife June, son Rob, daughters Margaret and Ellen, and six grandchildren. A graduate of All Hallows H
 HAAS--George Charles, Jr., 85 George Charles Haas Jr. of Lake Worth, Florida, died Monday, June 12, 2006, in West Palm Beach, FL. He was 85 years old. George C. Haas Jr. is survived by Susan Orthwein of Stamford, CT; Judith Eshelman of Putney, VT; and Sally Colbert of Weston, CT. Services w
 STECKLER--Frederick Gordon. On June 12 in Hannibal, MO. He was the son of the late Samuel and Stella Steckler, and brother of the late Roy Steckler. Service Thursday 10 A.M. at Mount Hebron Cemetery.       
 Talcott W. Seelye, a former United States ambassador to Tunisia and Syria, died last Thursday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. A career diplomat, Mr. Seelye (pronounced SEE-lee) was the ambassador to Tunisia from 1972 
 Craig Morris, an archaeologist who helped transform modern knowledge of the Inca civilization and a leader of research and exhibitions at the American Museum of Natural History, died Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was complications of hea
 German Goldenshteyn, a celebrated traditional clarinetist from the former Soviet Union who forged a crucial link to the vibrant klezmer music of the Old World with his arrival in the New World 12 years ago, died on Saturday while fishing on Hempstead Lake on Long Island. He was 71 and lived
 ARCHER--Edward C. Died with his family at his side after a one-year battle with mesothelioma, in his home in Newtown, CT. on June 13, 2006. Born in Brookfield, CT. on December 19, 1940, he was the only son of Percy and Ida Archer. Orphaned at an early age, he was raised in Bethel, CT. by hi
 BASTIAN--Bryce. Of Bronxville New York, died peacefully on June 9, 2006 after a noble struggle with a terrible cancer. He is survived by his wife, Sue; children Chris, James and Maribel; grandchildren Alastair, Isabelle and Miles Bryce; sisters Cheryl and Lynn; brother Ron; and numerous nie
 CHEIFETZ--Daniel E., 80. On June 9 after a brave fight against Cancer. Adored husband of Justine, beloved father of Amy (Michael Littleton) and Richard, ''Granddan'' of Nikolai and Antonia. Freelance writer, teacher of children's drama workshops (authored ''Theater in My Head'') and publish
 DUNLEAVY--Franci J. ''Tim'' on June 13, 2006, of Blue Bell, originally of East Germantown. Dear husband of Albina (nee Matuskowitz). Father of Michael F. (Nancy), Timmi Vesci (Jim), and the late Maureen J. and Susan H. Grandfather of Jim (Julie), Kevin, Tim, and Monica Vesci, and Mickey Sal
 GREER--Linda.The Board of Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System (MJHS), mourn the loss of Linda Greer, beloved wife of our highly-regarded colleague and past honoree Leonard. We extend our deepest condolences to Leonard and his family. May you be consoled amongst the mourners of Zi
 LESSER--Saal D. (1924 - 2006). Died at peace of Alzheimer 's Disease on June 13, 2006. He was ever the adoring husband of Deborah (Silverman), doting father of Marc and Elizabeth Lesser, Robin and Chris Cordima, and Nina and Todd Insler and proud grandfather of Danielle, Madeleine, Matthew,
 MCGUIRE--Brian James, 36. Of Greenwich died on June 12, as the result of a car accident. He was married to Marcie Leisenring McGuire and had two sons, Kevin, 7, and Jason, 3. A Managing Director and U.S. Head of Deutsche Bank AG's Structured Capital Markets Group, Brian was a leader in the 
 NOONAN--John F. Passed May 17, 2006. Educated at St. Mary's High School, Manhasset, NY, Fordham University, and Duke University Graduate School. He worked for firms from First Boston to the World Bank. His last position was as a consultant for USAID in Cairo, Egypt for the Ministry of Finan
 PAULENOFF--Irving. 92, of Miami, Fla., formerly of Tamarac, Fla. and Roslyn, N.Y; passed away peacefully on June 13, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Marion of 67 years, daughter Ellen Kaywin and son-in-law Paul, sons Alan and Michael Paulenoff and daughter-in-law Susan, and his four
 RUSH--Montgomery. Montgomery was born March 2, 1969 to Patricia Adams and Geoffery Donald in WA. He lived life to its fullest until June 12 2006. He lived in NY, for many years, where he was truly at home. Recently he moved back to Seattle to be close to family and friends here. He lived a 
 SIMMONS--Daniel, Sr.The Foundation for Ethnic Understanding mourns the passing of the beloved father of our esteemed chairman, Russell Simmons. Russell's tireless advocacy in strengthening race relations and promoting tolerance and understanding is an enduring testament to his father of ble
 STARK--Stephen Henry,a financial consultant who managed the New York office of L.F. Rothschild & Co. and later held a number of other senior positions in the financial services industry, including, most recently, Senior Vice President at RBC Dain Rauscher, died on June 14, 2006 in New York 
 STREETER--Frank S.The Board of Directors and staff of United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Frank Streeter, a wonderful and caring man who was deeply committed to community service and to better health care for all New Yorkers. He served as Vice Chairman of the
 SUN--Alexander S., he was a beloved father and scientist who dedicated his life to saving the lives of others. Born in 1939 in Hunan, China, Alexander Shikuan Sun survived the invasion of China during WWII. Alexander completed his college education in Taiwan and moved to the U.S. to receive
 WINTRUB--Warren G. Formerly of Stamford, CT died at his home in Boca Raton, FL on June 13th 2006 after a valiant battle with brain cancer. He was born on December 9, 1933 in Canton OH, son of the late Hy and Mollie Wintrub. He graduated from Ohio State University and Harvard Law School, bec
 Frank S. Streeter, an investor, philanthropist and collector of rare books and records from sea voyages during the Age of Exploration, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 88. He died after a short illness, his family said. Mr. Streeter's collections included books and maps from the 
 George Washington, who trained some of boxing's top names, including Riddick Bowe and Mark Breland, died on Sunday in Brooklyn, where he had long trained any would-be contender who came his way. He was 79. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Kenneth. Mr. Was
 LESSER--Saal D.(1924 - 2006). Died at peace of Alzheimer 's Disease on June 13, 2006. He was ever the adoring husband of Deborah (Silverman), doting father of Marc and Elizabeth Lesser, Robin and Chris Cordima, and Nina and Todd Insler and proud grandfather of Danielle, Madeleine, Matthew, 
 LEWIN--Harry M. Lawyer and restaurateur. Resident of Palm Beach, FL. Born January 10th, 1920. Died June 16th, 2006. Son of the late Arthur and Sadie Lewin, he was the beloved and devoted husband of Estelle for 64 wonderful years. Adored father of Linda and David Taub and Blylee Gardiner and
 MORRIS--Joseph. Long Island resident and Palm Beach snowbird. Father, husband, attorney, judge, Republican, Bayshore Jewish Center President, Cold Spring Valley Tennis Club founder, Union College and NYU Law School graduate. He loved tennis, bridge, his sons Jeff and Bob, wife Ethel now dec
 PAULENOFF--Irving. 92, of Miami, Fla., formerly of Tamarac, Fla. and Roslyn, N.Y; passed away peacefully on June 13, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Marion of 67 years, daughter Ellen Kaywin and son-in-law Paul, sons Alan and Michael Paulenoff and daughter-in-law Susan, and his four
 PERLMAN--Al B., former Chief Moderator Stop-Smoking Programs for American Cancer Society's NYC and Queens Divisions, died June 5. Conducted clinics for nearly 100 firms in Metro area; helping thousands quit smoking and saving their lives. Former smoker and lung cancer survivor, Mr. Perlman 
 REILLY--John Henry, Jr., on June 15, 2006. Beloved father of John Henry Reilly III, Elizabeth Ann Reilly and Margaret Reilly (Walter) Hauser. Devoted brother of Mary C. Reilly. Visitation 2-4 and 79PM, Sunday, June 18, Horn & Thomes Funeral Home, Pawling, NY. Funeral Mass Monday at 10AM, St
 VAHEY--John James. Age 66, of South Bethany, DE. Formerly of Blue Point, NY. Passed away June 15, 2006. John worked for J.P. Morgan for 38 years, retiring in 1997 as Managing Director. John is survived by his loving wife Betty of nearly 43 years, his five children, John, Dan, Mary, Kate and
 ZUCKER--Dr. William. Died at his home in Philadelphia of renal failure on May 13, 2006. He was 88 years old. Dr. William Zucker was the Meshulam Riklis Professor Emeritus of Creative Management at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and the founder and director of the Wharton Re
 Wes Hill, who, like the other storied river men in his family, mastered the currents and crevices of the Niagara River and its falls and became an expert at saving lives and recovering bodies, died Monday in Niagara Falls, Ontario. He was 76. His wife, Sarah, said that he had suffer
 Frederick Franck, an artist and author whose sculptures, sketches, paintings and more than 30 books reflect a constant search for the core of spirituality, died on June 5 at his home in Warwick, N.Y., near a park dedicated to peace that he studded with his own works. He was 97. The 
 BERK -- Irving A. Passed away June 16, after a short illness. He died peacefully at home surrounded by some of his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, as well as his beloved companion of eight years, Judy, and her daughter Sandy. He was in excellent health for 100 years, going 
 BUSH--Irving T. Esq., 95, a veteran of World War II, died in his sleep Sunday AM in NYC. He suffered from Alzheimer's disease. During WWII, he served heroically in the Philippine Islands. An attorney at the time, having graduated 1st in his class from NYU Law School, and a graduate of Union
 DAVIDSON--Harlan ''Harley'' Lee Davidson, Jr. 47, died June 14, 2006, in Manhattan after a long illness. He is survived by a sister, Francesca ''Spain'' Cerutti, a half brother, Frank ''Reid'' Cerutti, a stepmother, Angela ''Bee'' Davidson, a half brother Andrew ''Plucky'' Davidson, a siste
 DUNN -- Irving, M.D. We grieve this wonderful man, so loved by Renee and his beloved children Roark, Darin and Jenny/Ryan, and their families. Our thoughts are with you. Eisenberg Family       
 FLYNN--James Morgan Jr. 62, of Montauk, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, passed away on June 14, 2006. Jim was born in Boston, MA, and graduated from Boston Latin School and St. Michael's College in Vermont. He is survived by his wife Valerie Kelly; his son James Morgan Flynn III, his sister Marilyn
 INGRAHAM--David Jr. Died suddenly on June 13, 2006, at home in Laurel Hollow, NY, at the age of 62. He was a graduate of Boston University and Columbia University Business School and a former Vice President of Smith Barney and partner at Lafer Amster & Co. He is survived by his mother Laura
 KAYSER--Vincent N. The Board, Staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourn the loss of Vincent N. Kayser, father of Board Co-Chair Susan V. Kayser, Esq. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving family. Mark A. Zurack, Co-Chair Lou-Ellen Barkan, Pres & CEO
 LEWIN--Harry M. Lawyer and restaurateur. Resident of Palm Beach, FL. Born January 10th, 1920. Died June 16th, 2006. Son of the late Arthur and Sadie Lewin, he was the beloved and devoted husband of Estelle for 64 wonderful years. Adored father of Linda and David Taub and Blylee Gardiner and
 McGRAW--Donald C., Jr, 81. Of Gulf Stream, Florida, passed away on June 11, 2006 after a long illness with heart disease and complications due to a stroke. He was married to Dorothea McGraw and is survived by three sons, Donald III ''Josh'', of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., Robert L.W., of Sheffi
 MERRILL - Philip. Cornell University mourns the loss of devoted alumnus, Philip Merrill, a champion of education who created the Merrill Presidential Scholars Program at the university, whereby exceptional Cornell seniors recognize the high school and Cornell teachers who inspired them. He 
 O'BRIEN--Thomas Arthur. Passed on May 8, 2006 at 74. Raised in Washington Heights, Manhattan. He lived with outstanding style, spirit, class and always rose to the occasion. He is greatly loved and missed.       
 PERLMAN--Al B., former Chief Moderator Stop-Smoking Programs for American Cancer Society's NYC and Queens Divisions, died June 5. Conducted clinics for nearly 100 firms in Metro area; helping thousands quit smoking and saving their lives. Former smoker and lung cancer survivor, Mr. Perlman 
 PORETSKY - Ruvim. Died yesterday, June 17, in New York. Born October 28, 1910, in Bobruisk, Belarus. He was a prominent engineer who, among many other important projects, participated in the design of Sputnik--the first man - made object launched into space. His life was deeply connected to
 POUNDS--Richard, project manager in historic preservation field, 48. Richard Pounds, who died on June 3rd, in NYC was a project manager and architectural consultant. His projects included the Washington Square Arch, the Manhattan Appellate Court House, the Main Post Office, Grand Central St
 RAPP--Morris (Morty). Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted father of Alan and Susie Rapp, Bruce & Marie Ascher, Debra and Keith Waldman, Melinda and Mitch Greenberg. Loving grandfather of Eve-Lynn, Jake, Ava, Matthew, Jason, Diana, Daniel, Samantha, Gabrielle, Jade and Melissa. He was greatly l
 REILLY--John Henry, Jr., on June 15, 2006. Beloved father of John Henry Reilly III, Elizabeth Ann Reilly and Margaret Reilly (Walter) Hauser. Devoted brother of Mary C. Reilly. Visitation 2-4 and 79PM, Sunday, June 18, Horn & Thomes Funeral Home, Pawling, NY. Funeral Mass Monday at 10AM, St
 SHAPIRO--Jerry. 76, died on June 16, 2006 of complications from emphysema. He was a lifelong New Yorker and resident of Port Washington and Amagansett. In the 1970s he was President of the Hertz Corporation. In the 1980s he was President of Carl Ally Inc Advertising. Most recently he owned 
 STARK--Stephen Henry ,a financial consultant who managed the New York office of L.F. Rothschild & Co. and later held a number of other senior positions in the financial services industry, including, most recently, Senior Vice President at RBC Dain Rauscher, died on June 14, 2006 in New York
 VAHEY--John James. Age 66, of South Bethany, DE. Formerly of Blue Point, NY. Passed away June 15, 2006. John worked for J.P. Morgan for 38 years, retiring in 1997 as Managing Director. John is survived by his loving wife Betty of nearly 43 years, his five children, John, Dan, Mary, Kate and
 VAN BUREN--James Martin II. Died at the age of 79, this past Monday, June 12, 2006, from natural causes at St. Vincents Hospital. He was preceded in death by his wife Margaret Ellen in 1999, and son Edward (Ted) in 1993. He is survived by a son Martin (Matt), daughter Katrina Van Buren Clag
 VERNER--Jules Leonard. Of Boca Raton, died on Thursday, June 15, 2006, having just celebrated his 84th birthday. He put up a terrific fight and had been a cancer survivor for 12 years. Known to dear friends and family as Lenny, he is survived by his wife of 60 marvelous years, Irene, as wel
 WOLF--Alfred C. Of McLean, VA and Wellfleet, MA. died June 9 at Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, MA of complications following a hip fracture. He was 94. He devoted his life to public service and to the welfare of his family, who mourn him deeply, including his wife of sixty years, the former Ag
 ZUCKER--Dr. William. Died at his home in Philadelphia of renal failure on May 13, 2006. He was 88 years old. Dr. William Zucker was the Meshulam Riklis Professor Emeritus of Creative Management at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and the founder and director of the Wharton Re
 SCHLESINGER--Richard. 89, of ESCONDIDO, CA. Formerly of Greatneck, LI, NY Died peacefully at home surrounded by family on June 15th, 2006. He is survived by his beloved wife, Phyllis (Nee Balmuth). Devoted father of Ellen (Harvey Friedman), Carol (Murray Weber), Andrew Schlesinger (Nancy Di
 KAUFMAN--Herman S, Ph.D. March 31st, 1922 -June 18th, 1988. He gave of his head and his heart. With us, always. Hiltzik and Kaufman families.       
 Wulff-Dieter Heintz, an astronomer who was a leading investigator of the fiery evolution of linked pairs of stars, died on June 10 in Swarthmore, Pa. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer. Dr. Heintz was a lifelong smoker, his family said. Dr. Heintz, an astronomer at Swarthm
 Daniel Steiner, the president of New England Conservatory, died on June 11 in Boston. He was 72. The cause was complications of chronic lung disease, according to a statement released by the school. Mr. Steiner, a lawyer, was the first nonmusician to head the conservatory. H
 Dr. Morton M. Kligerman, who in the 1950's was an early advocate for using radiation and other experimental methods for treating cancer, died on June 7 in Philadelphia. He was 88. The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, his family said. Dr. Kligerman held professor
 BERMAN--Dr. William. At the age of 91. Dentist 47 years, formerly of Westbury, NY. Loving husband to Lillian, father to Janet and Phyllis, grandfather to Alexis, fatherin-law to Al and Michael. WWII Captain and only ''painless dentist in New Guinea'' and JFK. Selfless service to the communi
 BROWN --David Ingalls, 55, of West Hartford, died June 14th, 2006 in an airplane accident in Charlottesville, VA. Born in Cleveland, OH, he earned his BA from Trinity College, CT, in 1973 and MBA from the University of Michigan in 1984. Brown had a distinguished career in land preservation 
 CASTLE -Cyril. Passed away on June 15th. Born in London, 1922, he will be dearly missed by his beloved wife, Betty, of 61 years, his children Michael and Gary, his daughters-inlaw Susan and Lori and his grandchildren Daniel, Alexis, Rebecca, Gregory and Jamie.       
 DREIER--Sidney, 90. Beloved husband of Mildred for 60 years. Extremely loving father of Francine (Burtt), Marc, Mitchel (Nancy). Cherished grandfather of Julie, David, Spencer, Jackie, Katie and Benjamin. Born in Otynia, Poland in 1915, and educated in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia, to be a ph
 DUNN -- Irving, M.D. We grieve this wonderful man, so loved by Renee and his beloved children Roark, Darin and Jenny/Ryan, and their families. Our thoughts are with you. Eisenberg Family       
 GRAEV--Abraham(Al). passed away on June 15, 2006, at the age of 91 after a short illness. He was born in New York City on February 19, 1915, where he attended Stuyvesant High School and the Engineering School of New York University. He sang in the Children's Chorus of the New York Metropoli
 GRIBETZ -- Allen R., 59, passed away suddenly on June 17, 2006, highly respectied physician specializing in pulmonary disease, survived by his wife of 27 years, Jessica Schacter Gribetz, their daughters, Julie, Nina, Anna and Kate, mother, Florence Gribetz, and brothers, Kenneth and Michael
 INGRAHAM--David Jr. Died suddenly on June 13, 2006, at home in Laurel Hollow, NY, at the age of 62. He was a graduate of Boston University and Columbia University Business School and a former Vice President of Smith Barney and partner at Lafer Amster & Co. He is survived by his mother Laura
 LEWIN--Harry M. of Palm Beach, FL, and Montauk, NY. Son of Arthur and Sadie Lewin. Devoted husband of Estelle Lewin. Loving father of Linda and husband David Taub, Marc & Sandy Taub and Joshua & Lisa Taub. Loving great-grandfather of Jake, Trevor, Chloe, Camille & Asher Michael. Survived by
 NEWMAN--Fred, age 82, of Roslyn Heights, NY, passed away June 16, 2006. Attorney with Salamon, Gruber, Newman, Blaymore & Strenger, P.C. Fred is survived by his loving wife Claire of 59 years, his devoted children Ellen Deffes and Douglas Newman, two cherished grandchildren, Adrien and Jenn
 SHAPIRO--Jerry. 76, died on June 16, 2006 of complications from emphysema. He was a lifelong New Yorker and resident of Port Washington and Amagansett. In the 1970s he was President of the Hertz Corporation. In the 1980s he was President of Carl Ally Inc Advertising. Most recently he owned 
 DWORETSKY--Ephraim D. Beloved husband of 55 years to Martha (ZL). Loving father of Harold and Laura, Eli and Rena, Ray (ZL) and Aliza, adored grandfather and great grandfather. Professor of accounting at LIU, QCC, and ORT College. $(6$)DWORETSKY -- Ephraim. Our community had been blessed an
 Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, a pioneer of the Israeli kibbutz movement, a contentious colleague of the nation's leaders and the leader of its labor federation in the early 1970's, died on May 19. He was 99. Often describing himself as a radical Socialist, Mr. Ben-Aharon took controversial po
 Bill Lamb, a key member of the team that founded New York's public television station Channel 13 and the station's director of production for programs that included ''Nature'' and ''Great Performances,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was complications after a
 Donald Reilly, a prominent cartoonist best known for his four-decade-long association with The New Yorker, died on Sunday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Wilton, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Reilly, who began drawing for The New Yorker in 1964, d
 BAILINE--Mark, 55. Of Montville, NJ died at his home on Monday June 19, 2006 from complications of a brain tumor. Born in Jersey City, NJ, he is survived by his wife Bernice, sister and brother-inlaw Nancy & Robert Goldman, niece & nephews David, Greg, Brian & Erica Goldman and his beloved 
 BRASWELL--Joseph, died on Friday, June 16 at his home in Pensacola, Florida. Born in Alabama, Mr. Braswell attended the Birmingham Southern College and Parsons School of Design. He soon emerged as a leading designer of residential and commercial interiors. His work extended from Park Avenue
 CAPUTO--Anthony J. of Bronxville on June 18, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Doris Burke Caputo. Devoted father of Mac and Bruce Caputo. Dear grandfather of Mac Jr., Scott, Tony and Britt. Survived by brother Bic Caputo. Mr. Caputo was a graduate of NYU, 1933 and NYU Law School, 1936. Mr.
 CHANDLER--Roger E. 71, of Westfield NJ, held a variety of senior positions at Exxon Corporation. Husband of 50 years of Beverly, father of Peg of Cincinnati, OH and Alan and his wife Bonnie of Rochester, NY. A graveside service at Fairview Cemetery, Westfield, NJ June 21 at 12 noon. The fam
 COWIN--Solomon, 92, on June 18, 2006, Santa Monica, CA. He was a resident of New York for 83 years. Beloved father of Robbi Johnstone, Eileen Cowin, and father-inlaw of Jay Brecker. He was an inspiration to all who knew him and will remain in our hearts forever.       
 DREIER--Sidney, 90. Beloved husband of Mildred for 60 years. Extremely loving father of Francine (Burtt), Marc, Mitchel (Nancy). Cherished grandfather of Julie, David, Spencer, Jackie, Katie and Benjamin. Born in Otynia, Poland in 1915, and educated in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia, to be a ph
 GOODWIN--Maurice R., Dr. Died June 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Mary for 72 years, remembered dearly by 2 children, 4 grandchildren, 5 great grandchildren. His life as a physician, surgeon & teacher helped countless others. He will be greatly missed.       
 GRIBETZ--Allen. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to the entire family. Barry D. Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, VP Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Secy Martin Golds
 GUEDALIA--Judah. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father and fatherin-law of our members, Rose and Henry Edinger. May their entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood GUEDALIA-
 HARMANN--Vince. The entire Bobley-Harmann Corporation mourns the loss of Vince Harmann, principal and director of the company. We wish to convey our deepest condolences to Vince's entire family. He will be greatly missed.       
 HARMANN--Vincent William. 72, died peacefully June 17, in the arms of his loving wife Victoria. His survivors, brothers Robert, sisters Jone Robinson and Margie Shenk, daughter Karen Onesti, sons Mark, Michael and Brian and daughter Diana will always remember him as a hard worker who never 
 KABAT--Herbert, 89, a 37 years resident of Bay Harbor Islands, FL, passed away on June 18th, 2006. Born in Cambridge, MA on June 24, 1916, he moved to Brooklyn, N.Y. as a child where his love for the Dodgers was formed. He first arrived in Miami Beach in 1943 for basic training in the U.S. 
 KIELY--Francis G., Jr., 77, died Monday, June 19, 2006, at Moses Ludington Hospital, Ticonderoga. Born November 18, 1928, in Brooklyn, he was the son of the late Frances G. & Mary (Fitzsimmons) Kiely. Mr. Kiely served during World War II as a paratrooper in the United Stares Army. He was a 
 LEWIN--Harry M. The entire Parker Jewish Institute family is saddened by the passing of Harry M. Lewin, beloved father of Linda and husband David Taub, Past Chairman of the Board. May fond memories and the condolences of friends be of solace the entire Lewin and Taub families during this mo
 LIEB--Robert, Dr. The Board of Governors & Members of The Falls Country Club, Lakeworth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Robert Lieb. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. William Murphy, President       
 MALLONN--Hubert R. ''Bob'', 75, of Morehead City, North Carolina died on Friday, June 2, 2006 at Pitt Memorial Hospital in Greenville, NC. Mr. Mallonn was a veteran and served in the U.S. Army Infantry. He was the Night Shift Executive Foreman of the Composing Room here at the New York Time
 MURRAY -- James J. Of Bronxville, New York and Londonderry, Vermont. Passed away peacefully on June 18, 2006 at age 67, following a long and heroic battle with cancer. Loving husband, father, and son. Graduate of Bishop Loughlin High School Class of 1957, Manhattan College Class of 1961, an
 NEWMAN--Fred. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White, Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 SEUBERT--Bernard, 67, died Saturday, June 17, 2006. Worked as a program officer for U.S. Department of State at the International Visitor Program office in NY from 1980 till 2006. Office liaison to NYPD. Ph.D in French from Columbia University. Loyal to the office, devoted to international 
 SYLVESTER--Albert R. On June 12, 2006, Albert Sylvester died after a long illness. Born in 1926, he was a beloved husband, father, and decorated World War II veteran. He was 80years old. Services will be at Saint Phillips Episcopal Church in Brooklyn: 718-778-8700, on June 21st and 22nd.   
 BRINKERHOFF--George Everett III. Died May 9th at his home in Pinehurst NC. Raised in Belle Mead NJ and Quogue NY, he attended Princeton Day School, The Hill School and Stanford University with MBA from NYU. Worked with Paine Webber in NYC then Long Island, later changing from brokerage to r
 Charles H. Older, a no-nonsense judge who presided over the bizarre and boisterous circus that was the trial of Charles Manson and his followers, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications of a fall at his home in West Los Angeles, said Edward Cazier, a 
 CLARK--Hays. The Trustees, Life Trustees, Physicians and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital and the Overseers, Faculty and Staff of Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Hays Clark. Mr. Clark was elected Governor of The Societ
 COWIN--Solomon, 92, on June 18, 2006, Santa Monica, CA. He was a resident of New York for 83 years. Beloved father of Robbi Johnstone, Eileen Cowin, and father-inlaw of Jay Brecker. He was an inspiration to all who knew him and will remain in our hearts forever.       
 DUNN--Irving, M.D., 75, died suddenly after a brief illness on June 14, 2006. A highly respected physician specializing in kidney disease, he will be dearly missed by his beloved wife Renee, his children Roark, Darin and Jenny/ Ryan; step daughters Sarah and Nancy; sisters Nicole and Sylvia
 GILBERT--Timothy. The firm of Warshaw Burstein Cohen Schlesinger & Kuh mourns the untimely passing of a devoted partner, colleague and friend. Tim Gilbert began his career with our firm directly out of law school and developed into a consummate lawyer and invaluable member of our firm who w
 GLOBUS--Dr. Rudo, PhD, age 82, died on June 14, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Marie & his devoted children Andrew, Daniel, Jennifer, Amy and Susan. He was a great inspiration to all who had the privilege to know him. He will live on in the hearts and memories of his patients, frie
 GRIBETZ--Allen, M.D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center and its Boards of Trustees mourn the passing of Allen Gribetz, M.D., Assistant Professor in the Department of Medicine. Dr. Gribetz, a preferred pulmonary consultant, joined Mount Sinai in 1971 and gained the highest praises from his colle
 GUEDALIA--Judah. Those privileged to worship under his steady eye, dignified demeanor and commanding presence, will forever revere his memory as the guardian of the Minhagim; the rituals of which Shearith Israel, forever remains the American guardian par excellance of our English and Dutch 
 LAMB--Bill. The Trustees, Staff and Volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation (EBC) lament the passing of Bill Lamb, one of the founding members of EBC's flagship station, Thirteen/WNET. A member of the team that brought Thirteen/WNET to life in 1962, Bill also oversaw the creation
 McDOWELL--Alan Stewart. A Jackson, WY resident, died peacefully at his home in Wayzata, MN with his family on June 16, 2006 after a battle with prostate cancer. Born on June 27, 1938 in Binghamton, NY, he was the son of the late W. Wallace McDowell and Louise Smith McDowell. He spent his fo
 SINGER--Rabbi Philip Harris, 83. Our beacon of Torah was taken to illuminate the heavens on June 20th, 2006. He served the Avenue ''O'' Jewish Center, Brooklyn, NY for over 50 years. President Vaad Ha'rabonim of Flatbush, Executive Vice President Igud Ha'rabonim, Executive Chairman-Friends 
 SYLVESTER--Albert R. On June 12, 2006, Albert Sylvester died after a long illness. Born in 1926, he was a beloved husband, father, and decorated World War II veteran. He was 80years old. Services will be at Saint Phillips Episcopal Church in Brooklyn: 718-778-8700, on June 21st and 22nd.   
 WEXLER--George, 81, a wellknown painter of Hudson Valley landscapes, died on June 17 after a long illness. He had been associated with Fischbach Gallery in New York City for almost 20 years. His paintings are represented in many museums as well as public and private collections. Most recent
 HIRSCH--Leonard Coe. Age 94 years. June 19, 2006. Beloved husband of 71 years to Mary ''Pixie'' Strasser Hirsch. Loving father of Gerry and the late Roland, grandfather of Scott, Robb, and Matthew and great grandfather of Tabatha, Holliss, Ronald and Marilla. Devoted brother of the late Ger
 MILLER -- Robert Douglas. June 21, 1970 -June 21, 1996. ''His life was gentle: and the elements So mix'd in him, that NATURE might stand up, And say to all the world, 'This was a man!''' With loving memory, Mom, Dad and Rachel       
 Vincent Sherman, one of Hollywood's last surviving studio-era directors, who made a string of successful movies with legendary stars like Bette Davis, Clark Gable, Humphrey Bogart, Joan Crawford and Errol Flynn in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 99. His so
 Arthur M. Wood, the executive at Sears, Roebuck & Company who oversaw the completion of the company's tower in Chicago even as the chain's domination of the American retail market was eroding, died Sunday in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 93. The cause was complications of pneumonia, acco
 Howard Shanet, a conductor, composer and professor at Columbia University who wrote an important history of the New York Philharmonic, died on Monday. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, Bernice Grafstein, announced his death. As a conductor, Mr. Shanet appeared with
 COHEN--Albert. Loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend, will be missed by all who knew him. His charm and sense of humor will live on long after him. Services at East End Temple, 245 East 17 St, NY, NY, on Friday, June 23,11 AM.       
 COWIN--Solomon, 92, on June 18, 2006, Santa Monica, CA. He was a resident of New York for 83 years. Beloved father of Robbi Johnstone, Eileen Cowin, and father-inlaw of Jay Brecker. He was an inspiration to all who knew him and will remain in our hearts forever.       
 GLOBUS--Dr. Rudo, PhD, age 82, died on June 14, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Marie & his devoted children Andrew, Daniel, Jennifer, Amy and Susan. He was a great inspiration to all who had the privilege to know him. He will live on in the hearts and memories of his patients, frie
 MOSHER--James W. Lawyer, 65 died May 31, 2006 in Manhattan. His practice was in the theater and music industry. Prior to forming his own firm, he had been a partner in Zissu, Stein, Bergman, Couture and Mosher. A memorial is planed for June 23, 2006 at the Princeton Club in New York, 15 Wes
 REILLY--Donald, 72, husband of Kathleen Collins Reilly, died from cancer on June 18, 2006, in Norwalk, CT. A prolific cartoonist and cover artist for ''The New Yorker'' since the early 1960's, Donald was also a contributor to publications as diverse as ''MAD'' magazine and ''The Harvard Bus
 SINGER--Rabbi Philip Harris, 83. Our beacon of Torah was taken to illuminate the heavens on June 20th, 2006. He served the Avenue ''O'' Jewish Center, Brooklyn, NY for over 50 years. President Vaad Ha'rabonim of Flatbush, Executive Vice President Igud Ha'rabonim, Executive Chairman-Friends 
 MAZZARULLI--Pasquale V. (Pat), age 66 of Sante Fe, NM and Palm Desert, CA died June 20, 2006. He was born June 21, 1939 to Frank Mazzarulli and Rose Puma Mazzarulli in New York City. He married Marilyn Meola on June 18, 1983 in Rye, NY. Pat founded the oil brokerage company PVM Oil Associat
 Louis B. Sohn, a professor of international law who helped draft parts of the United Nations Charter in 1945 and was a leader in subsequent efforts to turn the United Nations into a true world government, died on June 7 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 92. The cause was compl
 BRADHAM--Tom W. Died in Memphis, TN. on May 28, 2006, after his second brave battle against colon cancer. Tom was a stock analyst for Salomon Smith Barney, and loved calling New York home for the last 20 years. He is survived by his mother, Nena Bradham of Memphis, one sister and two brothe
 CLARK--Hays. The Board of Governors, Trustees, staff and members of Boys & Girls Clubs of America wish to express their profound sorrow over the passing of Mr. Hays Clark, our longtime Governor, friend, supporter and a true champion for children. Hays Clark was quite simply the greatest phi
 COHEN--Albert. Loving husband, father, grandfather, uncle and friend, will be missed by all who knew him. His charm and sense of humor will live on long after him. Services at East End Temple, 245 East 17 St, NY, NY, on Friday, June 23,11 AM.       
 FIFER--Calvin Edward. Of West Babylon, L.I. on June 21, 2006. Loving husband of Millicent. Devoted father of Gail Fifer-Sullivan (Richard J.J. Sullivan) and Walter Edward Fifer (MaryBeth). Cherished grandfather of Richard J.J. Sullivan III, Jason Edward Fifer, Calvin E.F. Sullivan, Alexandr
 GLOBUS--Dr. Rudo, PhD, age 82, died on June 14, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Marie & his devoted children Andrew, Daniel, Jennifer, Amy and Susan. He was a great inspiration to all who had the privilege to know him. He will live on in the hearts and memories of his patients, frie
 GOTTLIEB - Blanche. The partners and staff of Labaton Sucharow & Rudoff LLP express their deepest sympathy to their partner, Louis Gottlieb, on the passing of his mother, Blanche, and we extend our sincerest condolences to his granddaughter and daughter-in-law. Labaton Sucharow & Rudoff LLP
 GRIBETZ--Alan, MD. We are grieved beyond words at the untimely death of Dr. Gribetz. He was not only a distinguished doctor, but a Mensch. He was an angel incarnate. Israel Friedman In the name of Bojaner Chassidim $(6$)GRIBETZ--Allen, M.D., the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care 
 GROSSMAN--William I. , M.D. Sadly on June 22, 2006. Husband, father, grandfather, psychoanalyst, scholar andteacher, passed away. He will be greatly missed by wife Chanie, sons Dr. Eric and David and their wives Betsy and Kate; grandchildren Nina, Josh, Sofi and Corinne. Services Friday, Ju
 HANSEN--William P. Born August 9, 1940 died on June 9, 2006. He was an editor and writer for American Heritage, Random House and Chelsea House. After graduating from University of Wisconsin he studied at NYU and started his literary career. His works covered a wide range of topics from drug
 MOSHER--James W. Lawyer, 65, died May 31, 2006 in Manhattan. His practice was in the theater and music industry. Prior to forming his own firm, he had been a partner in Zissu, Stein, Bergman, Couture and Mosher. A memorial is planned for June 23, 2006 at the Princeton Club in New York, 15 W
 REILLY--Donald, 72, husband of Kathleen Collins Reilly, died from cancer on June 18, 2006, in Norwalk, CT. A prolific cartoonist and cover artist for ''The New Yorker'' since the early 1960's, Donald was also a contributor to publications as diverse as ''MAD'' magazine and ''The Harvard Bus
 Robert A. Hatch, a public-relations executive who helped shepherd ''Sesame Street'' onto the air in 1969, died on June 16 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, his brother, Stanley, said. A newspaperman by training, Mr. Hatch joined Car
 Aaron Spelling, the most prolific producer in American television, whose company generated hit shows over five decades, including ''The Mod Squad,'' ''Charlie's Angels,'' ''The Love Boat,'' ''Dynasty,'' ''Beverly Hills, 90210,'' and ''7th Heaven,'' died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles.
 Dr. Heinz L. Ansbacher, whose encounters with the psychologist Alfred Adler in 1930, first in a lecture hall and then in a therapy session, led to a lifetime of scholarship devoted to his work, died Thursday at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 101. His death was confirmed by his s
 ZULKOWITZ--Albert J., 82, of Woodmere, NY died Friday morning. Albert is survived by his wife Phyllis (nee Fuchs) of 54 years, and two sons Paul ''zool'' and Benjamin, his niece Mimi Sellers, family and friends. Funeral services Sunday, June 25 at 12:30PM at Boulevard Riverside Chapel, 1450
 GROSSMAN--William I., M.D.The Philoctetes Center for the Multidisciplinary Study of Imagination mourns the death of its Board Member, Dr. William I. Grossman. Psychoanalyst, scholar, and teacher, Bill's graceful brilliance and gentle presence lit the world for those who knew him. Freud wrot
 Robert W. Mann, a mechanical engineer and designer who helped create advanced prosthetic joints, a Braille printing machine and devices to aid patients in rehabilitation, died on June 16 at his summer home in Moultonborough, N.H. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his family s
 Aaron Spelling, the most prolific producer in American television, whose company generated hit shows over five decades, including ''The Mod Squad,'' ''Charlie's Angels,'' ''The Love Boat,'' ''Dynasty,'' ''Beverly Hills, 90210,'' and ''7th Heaven,'' died Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He
 BLOTNER--Norman David. Born December 16, 1918, in Beverly, MA. Resident of New Rochelle for 45 years. Died June 23, 2006. Harvard University, Class of 1940. Served in US Navy for five years during WWII, entering as ensign and achieved rank of lieutenant commander. Received a law degree from
 CHESKIN--Joel Richard. Died June 21, 2006. A tenured professor in mathematics at Marymount College, Tarrytown, he also taught at Mercy College, Manhattanville College and was in private practice tutoring mathematics. He was very much beloved and will be truly missed by his family. Survived 
 CLARK--Hays, 88, retired Executive Vice President and Director of Avon Products Inc. died of complications associated with conjunctive heart failure on June 18 at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. He was a resident of Hobe Sound, Florida and he maintained a home in Newtown Squar
 DARLING--George F., 70, of Providence RI and formerly of East 77th Street, New York City, died June 16. Mr. Darling was the vice president of Regatta Sport in New York City. He was a former member of the New York Athletic Club and the Broadway Theatre League. He leaves a sister, nieces and 
 FIALKOW--Dr. Morris N. 92, died peacefully on Friday. Loving husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, father-in-law, brother-in-law and friend. An accomplished civil engineer for over 40 years, he served as chief of the design branch for the Army Corp of Engineers. A world traveler, br
 GOLDBERG--Sheldon. Born August 28, 1930, died June 19, 2006. Native New Yorker, Sheldon died at his home in Southampton, NY after a long battle with cancer. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, he was an expert advisor of tax law and estates planning. Retired in 1998 from Edward Isaacs & Co.,
 GORELL--Frank. The family of The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of its devoted friend Frank Gorell and extends deepest sympathy to his family. A recipient of Curtis's Alumni Award, he shared his profound commitment to young musicians through projects such as the young artists' se
 GRUBER--Samuel. 1913-2006. We, the family of Samuel Gruber, will love and miss him forever. He was a wonderful husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He lived his life with humility and dignity. He was an underground fighter in Poland against Nazism and wrote the book, ''I Chos
 HANSEN--William P. Born August 9, 1940 died on June 9, 2006. He was an editor and writer for American Heritage, Random House and Chelsea House. After graduating from University of Wisconsin he studied at NYU and started his literary career. His works covered a wide range of topics from drug
 HAVENICK--Fred. 62, died of cancer Wednesday. He is survived by his wife Barbara and children, Izzy, Alex, Michael and Jenny and Tim Bielawski; his sister Nancy Fiverson and his mother Tillie Havenick. Fred received a B.A. from New York University and a J.D. from Seton Hall University. He w
 HOLSTEIN - Robert. Died May 30. Beloved by his friends, Bob will be missed. Donations: Humane Society of New York, 212-752-4840.       
 SIMON--Jay Stanley. On June 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Dr. Jo-Ann Marx. Loving father of Jonathan and his wife Anna, and Russell. Dear brother of Alvin, Leonard and Frank. Renowned patent attorney for ExxonMobil for 37 years. Service Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Ams
 TARNER--Stanley P. , 83. Of Meriden, CT. Formerly of Mount Washington, MA. Died June 10, he was the husband of Elizabeth Tarner. Mr. Tarner was bourn March 10th, 1923 in Piraeux, Greece. The son of the late Philip and Catherine (Papalazaros-Tarner). He served in the US Navy from 1942-1946. 
 ZULKOWITZ--Albert J., 82, of Woodmere, NY died Friday morning. Albert is survived by his wife Phyllis (nee Fuchs) of 54 years, and two sons Paul ''zool'' and Benjamin, his niece Mimi Sellers, family and friends. Funeral services Sunday, June 25 at 12:30PM at Boulevard Riverside Chapel, 1450
 ZWIEBEL--Norman, 81, of Delray Beach FL passed on June 12, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife Wanda, sons Stanley (Louise), Michael (Jennifer), Harold (Phyllis), Richard (Judith), grandchildren Maddie, Alana, Mia, Benjamin, Samantha, Melissa (John), Timothy, Terrence and Kennon. Greatg
 MARCHIONY--Lawrence, Jr. of Montclair, NJ on June 15. Larry served as VP of Creative Development for the Howard/Marlboro Group in New York City, co-foundedHidden Valley ski area in Vernon, NJ and was a founding member of the Montclair Ski Club. He was a grandson of Italo Marchiony, inventor
 NATHANSON--Stanley, died peacefully at home on June 21. A gentle man much loved by his wife Doris, son Lou, daughter - in - law Kristen, grandchildren Areli and Casey and by all whose lives he touched.       
 WEIDENBACHER--Richard L. Jr., M.D., aged 76, a psychiatrist on the Forensic Psychiatry Service at Kings County Hospital since 1973, died suddenly on May 10, 2006. He was a graduate of Princeton and the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Dick, who was well known for his sharp intelle
 O'BRIEN--Lois Levin.It has been ten years since we last saw your smile and heard your clear, practical words. We are still heartbroken, each in his own way. Rest in peace, beloved. Jack and Jeremiah       
 POST--Sheldon. 9/5/36-6/25/88. Founder, Chelsea Pines Inn. As we pause today for a moment to recall those we loved & lost in the still-raging battle against AIDS, think of Sheldon, an early leader in our community, a man who fought hard to do the right thing, no matter the cost. He would ha
 Sir Peter Smithers, who saw his work as a lawyer, politician, diplomat, scholar, photographer and spy as distractions from his passion for growing glorious gardens, died on June 8 in Vico Morcote, Switzerland. He was 92. Sir Peter's death was announced by the Council of Europe, for 
 Lyle Stuart, a renegade journalist and publisher whose picaresque life included clashes with Walter Winchell, the publication of ''Naked Came the Stranger'' and the decision to print ''The Anarchist Cookbook,'' died on Saturday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in Englewood, N.J. He 
 BECKER--Eugene. August 2, 1929-June 25, 2006. Beloved husband of Rae, devoted father of Eve and Margot, proud Bapa of Leo Liebeskind, former assistant principal violist of the New York Philharmonic, master musician, mentor, friend and paradigm to his many students and professional colleague
 BLOTNER--Norman David. Born December 16, 1918, in Beverly, MA. Resident of New Rochelle for 45 years. Died June 23, 2006. Harvard University, Class of 1940. Served in US Navy for five years during WWII, entering as ensign and achieved rank of lieutenant commander. Received a law degree from
 GAUDIANI--Vincent A. 86, of Indianapolis and NYC, deceased, June 23, 2006. West Point '43, RCA executive. Survived by his wife of 63 years, Vera Rossano Gaudiani. Children, Dr. Claire L., Dr. Vincent A., Dr. Linda M., Elissa A. and Michael Gaudiani, 13 grandchildren and four great-grandchil
 GILBERT --Marc K, 89, of Plantation, Florida, and previously of Hollywood and Tamarac, Florida, passed away on June 24, 2006. Marc was well known for both his philanthropy and his active involvement in many local, national and international organizations. Marc was a founder of the Miami Jew
 NEUFELD -Rosalind. Of Mt. Vernon, NY, on June 24, 2006 at the age of 69. Beloved wife of Bill, loving mother of Evan and Jane Eisland, Marla and Ingo Sprie, Charles and Deborah Neufeld, James and Elise Neufeld, and David and Mindy Neufeld. Adoring grandmother of Jake, Scott, Brandon, Cara a
 PROVINE--John Calhoun, died at his home in Brentwood, Tennessee on April 14 from ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease), he was 67. He was a partner with the law firm White & Case and headed offices in Jakarta, Indonesia and Ankara,Turkey from 1983-1992. An accomplished musician and bluegrass aficionad
 SIMON--Jay Stanley. On June 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Dr. Jo-Ann Marx. Loving father of Jonathan and his wife Anna, and Russell. Dear brother of Alvin, Leonard and Frank. Renowned patent attorney for ExxonMobil for 37 years. Service Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Ams
 Arif Mardin, the Turkish-American record producer who was one of the most successful and artistically significant behind-the-scenes figures in popular music in the last half-century, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his so
 ATKIND--Russell Scott, on June 25, 2006, of Brooklyn. Beloved son of Marsha and David Atkind. Dear grandson of Leon Belle and Rose Atkind. Dear great nephew of Doris Atkind. A 1994 valedictorian graduate of Montclair High School, Russell graduated from Yale in 1998, where he served as Direc
 BECKER--Eugene. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on June 25, of Eugene Becker, Assistant Principal Violist from 1981 until his retirement in 1989. Mr. Becker, who joined the Philharmonic in 1957, was also a recitalist and a dedicated chamber musician and teacher, serving on num
 GERLI--John Emanuel, at the age of 96, died peacefully on June 20th at the Pavilion of the Osborn Retirement Center in Rye, NY. His large and extended family mourns his passing. He is survived by his brother David, his wife, Christine, his sons John Jr. and Alexander, his daughters Margaret
 GILBERT--Marc. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Marc Gilbert, a longtime ADL activist and supporter and an Honorary National Commissioner. We extend our deepest condolences to his daughters Roni and Tina and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxm
 GROSSMAN--Dr. William. The members of the New Jersey Psychoanalytic Society mourn the abrupt and premature passing of our beloved colleague, Dr. William Grossman. It is hard to imagine our psychoanalytic lives without his remarkable presence. He was a brilliant thinker, a generous friend, a
 KEILLOR--Ronald Woodhull, 82, of Essex, CT, died June 23, 2006 at Middlesex Hospital Hospice Unit in Middletown. He is survived by his loving wife Wilda (Heath) Keillor, his four children, Frederick M. Keillor of Martha's Vineyard, MA, Dana Davison (Keillor-Fitton) of Essex, CT, Jay D. Keil
 LOEW--Elliott, 89 years old, of Lake Worth, Florida. Formerly of Great Neck, New York. Died June 23, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Loew, father of Judith, Jonathon, and Patricia, grandfather of nine and great grandfather of four. He lived a long and successful life, and he will b
 NACHT--Carl H., M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with profound sadness the untimely passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Carl H. Nacht, M.D., who earned the respect and admiration of all of us for his constant devotion to his patients and
 NAUGHTON--Lawrence John, 92, a lifelong resident of Manhattan, died Sunday June 25, 2006 at Mary Manning Walsh Home. Devoted son of the late Lawrence and Georgiana (Plunket) Naughton. Dear brother of the late James T. Naughton, Angela Naughton Dinger, George J. Naughton. Beloved and loving 
 SKUDDER--Dr. Paul Albert of Rye, NY, on June 24, 2006. at 82. He graduated from Middlebury College in 1949. Entered Cornell University Medical College in NY. Served there and at NY Presbyterian Hospital for 56 years as a medical student, intern, resident, attending surgeon and faculty membe
 STRONGWATER--Irwin, 79, originally of Brooklyn, NY. A true lover of life and an eternal optimist. Died June 22nd, 2006. He is survived by his wife Maria of 18 years, son Paul, and daughter Susie. Grandchildren Alexander, Molly, and Julien, family and friends. Paul Strongwater will receive v
 STUART--Lyle. As members of the Board of Trustees and staff of The Albert Ellis Institute, we wish to extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Lyle Stuart on the occasion of his untimely passing. Lyle lived a long and full life, championing truth, justice and freedom of expression at ev
 WEIL--Michael P. Friends and colleagues at the New York City Department of City Planning mourn the untimely passing of Mike Weil. A professional with the utmost integrity and honesty, Mike used his formidable planning, architecture and urban design skills to help shape the city he loved so 
 BABB--Handel McCartney. Beloved friend and family member, passed away on June 25, 2006. Mr. Babb was a customs traffic manager for Vandegrift Forwarding Company, a valued employee for 47 years. He was born on September 5, 1929 in Colon Replublic of Panama to Margaret Dennis Babb and Lorrain
 BECKER--Eugene. The Juilliard School mourns the death of Eugene Becker, member of the viola and chamber music faculty since 1987, and Pre-college faculty since 1975. A distinguished musician and dedicated teacher, Gene approached his teaching at Juilliard with passion and professional exper
 CLIFFORD--Charles Blumberg, DDS. Passed away Sunday, June 25. He leaves a heartbroken Judi, his wife of 47 years. He was dearest Daddy to his beloved daughters Mindy and Amy; loving father-in-law to Andrew & Scott; and adored Poppy to Sydney, Melissa & Zach. Cliff was a vibrant, young man a
 DRETZIN--David. The Nation magazine mourns the loss of David ''Duff'' Dretzin, our long time labor lawyer and a remarkable, generous man. Duff was much more than an esteemed colleague, he was our friend. We will remember him always for his exceptional kindness, his many good works, and his 
 FLORENCE--Leonard, Age 74, formerly of Chelsea, died on June 26th at his residence in Chestnut Hill. Mr. Florence the son of the late Myer and Fannie (Raisman) Florence, grew up in Chelsea, and graduated from Chelsea High School, and Boston University School of Business Administration. Afte
 HALPERIN--Donald M. of Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, 60, the youngest person ever to be elected to the NY State Senate at the age of 24, died June 26, 2006 at the Menorah Nursing Home and Hospital in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn after a valiant 22 month battle with cancer. Don Halperin was the be
 KAPLAN--B. David, 86. Died peacefully at home in New York on June 26, 2006. The cause was heart failure. David was the fourth generation of his family to be born and raised in New York. His late father, Dr. Ira Kaplan, was a radiologist who took his wife and two small children with him when
 MOSS--Dr. Melvin L. Former dean of Columbia University Medical Center's College of Dental Medicine, professor emeritus of anatomy and oral biology in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and professor emeritus of dentistry, passed away on Sunday, June 25, 2006. Dean Moss' visionary leade
 SORIAN--Jack. 94, of New York City, NY. On June 26, 2006. Beloved uncle of Joseph, Janice A., David, Janice R., Estelle, Sidney, Stephen and Richard. Jack had been acting since 1945, and had been involved in theatre productions in Off-Broadway and Summer Stock. He was Alan King's understudy
 THOMSON--Dudley George. 74, of Sheldon, SC, died Sunday, June 25, 2006 at his Brays Island home. Services will be at a later date. Mr. Thomson was born August 31, 1931, in Flushing, NY, a son of Louise Magoon Thomson and John B. Thomson. He was a veteran of The United States Army, a member 
 GOLDBERGER--Seymour. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club, record the passing of our esteemed member, Seymour Goldberger. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Selma, his sister and brother-in-law, Helen and
 MILIKOWSKY--Jonathan. In Pittsburgh, PA, Jonathan Milikowsky, 23, of 3 Edgehill Road, New Haven, died at Children's Hospital on Sunday, June 25. Born in New Haven, CT, June 14, 1983, he was a devoted son of Daniel and Sharon (Burger) Milikowsky. Beloved brother of Matthew Milikowsky and Jen
 William A. Shurcliff, a physicist who helped develop the atomic bomb and went on to play an outspoken role in defeating plans for a supersonic passenger plane in the 1960's and the Star Wars antimissile defense system in the 80's, died June 20 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. The caus
 Al Brounstein, a Napa Valley vintner who was an early proponent of both making wines from a single vineyard and charging sky-high prices for them, died on Monday at his home in Calistoga, Calif. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said. 
 Dr. Melvin L. Moss, an anatomist and former dean of Columbia University's dental school who developed a theory to explain how the jaw, cheekbones and other facial bones grow and come together, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 83. His death was announced by Columbia. From 
 Eric Rofes, an educator, author and organizer whose iconoclastic writings on gay concerns preceded the AIDS epidemic and who then helped define its stages, died on Monday in Provincetown, Mass. He was 51. The cause was not determined, said Richard Burns, executive director of the Le
 Herman I. Merinoff, who transformed his family's liquor distribution business into a company with more than $3 billion in annual revenue, died yesterday in Melville, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, according to his business partner and corporate counsel, Andrew
 Irving A. Berk, who as founder of the Berk Trade and Business School in New York supervised the training of plumbers, electricians, car mechanics and secretaries for 65 years, died on June 16 at his home in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. He was 100. His death was announced by his son Joel, 
 BERTSCHE--William North. 58, of Hastings-On-Hudson, New York. Born in NYC April 3, 1948, died after a 7 year battle with Multiple Myeloma, cancer of the bone marrow. Dear son of Louise Copland Bertsche and the late William I. Bertsche. Loving husband of Harriet Eptein Bertsche, adored fathe
 CLARKE--Leonard A. Former District 16 Superintendent, born August 10, 1941, died June 24, 2006. He obtained his BA and MS from CUNY. He will be missed by family and friends. Funeral services will be on Thursday June 29 at 7PM at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in Springfield Gardens, NY.       
 DRETZIN--David. Anderson Kill & Olick, P.C. deeply mourns the loss of our dear friend, David Dretzin. He was a dedicated lawyer to clients and a devoted friend to many of us. His professionalism, passion for his work, kindness and wisdom will forever be valued. He was a gentle man, generous
 GREER--Robert E., of White Plains died June 27, 2006 from ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). Former Vice President of Finance and Strategic Planning for MBIA Corporation. He is survived by his wife Helen, 2 daughters, Ashley Saber and Alexis Greer and three grandchildren, Billy, Kori and Kristen. 
 HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. After a life-long friendship of 72 years, I bid a sad farewell to my dear friend, Sol. It was a great ride, but it ended too soon. Fare thee well, Sol. Gene Grant $(6$)HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. Age 90, on June 24, 2006, at his country home on China Lake, Carmel, NY
 IDLEMAN--Lee H. He is survived by his loving wife of 46 years, Sue Ann (O'Connor), three sons, Douglas L. of Denville, NJ, Christopher H. and his wife, Eileen, of Whitehouse Station, NJ, and Scott C. and his wife Elizabeth, of Mequon, WI, and six grandchildren. Friends may call at the Wm. A
 LEVINE--S. Warren, DDS. Died suddenly on Sunday June 25th while biking in Westchester. Dr. Richard Delson, his staff and his extended dental family mourn the loss of our colleague and partner. We will always remember his smiling face and many good works. Services Thursday, June 29th, 2006, 
 MANNERS--Sydney Howard, MD. Passed away peacefully June 28, 2006 surrounded by his wife, Marie-France and his daughter Robin. Cherished by his family, adored by his friends in NY and France and the patients to whom he dedicated himself for over 45 years in Family Medicine. Proud Royal Air F
 MERINOFF--Herman I. We cherish the memory of our dear eloquent, elegant friend of 45 years and all of the special times we spent together. Our hearts are with our extended family, Sue, Linda, Cathy, Charlie, Barbie, Spencer, Ruthie, and their families. Joan & Arthur M . Spiro & Family      
 NACHT--Carl Henry. Dr. Carl Henry ''Hank'' Nacht, beloved friend of running, inspiring example as a finisher of 29 consecutive New York City Marathons. You will be sorely missed by all of us at New York Road Runners and in the running community. $(6$)NACHT--Carl Henry, M.D. Optimism
 GOLDBERGER - Seymour. Deeply mourned by his loving wife, Selma, devoted son, Marc (Amy), adoring grandchildren, Michael, David, and Erica, dear sister and brother-in-law of Helen and Lawrence Doppelt, and many, many friends. Services Friday June 30, 10 A.M. at The Riverside-Nassau North Cha
 Donald M. Halperin, a former New York state senator who represented shorefront neighborhoods of Brooklyn for 23 years and then served briefly as Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's housing commissioner, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Brenda Halper
 BERK--Irving A. The Community Preservation Corporation mourns , with deep sadness, the passing of Irving Berk. He was a pioneer in the field of trade schools as the founder of the Berk Trade and Business School. His work to create non-degree programs created employment opportunities for tho
 BERTSCHE--William North. 58, of Hastings-On-Hudson, New York. Born in NYC April 3, 1948, died after a 7 year battle with Multiple Myeloma, cancer of the bone marrow. Dear son of Louise Copeland Bertsche and the late William I. Bertsche. Loving husband of Harriet Epstein Bertsche, adored fat
 CURCI--Robert. Died on June 27. A lifelong Atheist, Bob rejected prayer and asked that no one pray for him. Bob often said ''I'm not afraid of dying,'' and ''My fate is based on medical science and my genes.'' New York City Atheist will miss him. Ken Bronstein, President New York City Athei
 DRETZIN--David (Duff) died, surrounded by his family, on Monday June 26 at St.Francis hospital, Poughkeepsie, NY as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident. Adored husband of Joanna, cherished father of Rachel and Julie, admired father-inlaw of Barak and Sam, and doting grandfather
 HANSEN--Stanley .... and the Lord cried out to his flock, ''I need a master framer, who can also cut a lot of mat openings.'' There was a great deal of murmuring ... then two voices were heard, ''Lord, get Stanley Hansen.'' The Lord said, ''who spoke?'' ''I am Sylvan Cole and this is Arthur
 HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. After a life-long friendship of 72 years, I bid a sad farewell to my dear friend, Sol. It was a great ride, but it ended too soon. Fare thee well, Sol. Gene Grant $(6$)HEILIGMAN--Dr. Sol J. Age 90, on June 24, 2006, at his country home on China Lake, Carmel, NY
 MALIN--Robert R. on June 23, 2006. Died unexpectedly at 46 years of age. A resident of New York City & Stony Creek, CT. Beloved husband of Gina, devoted father of Andrew, Isabelle and Christina. Son of Richard and Donna Malin of Westport, CT. Brother of Thomas and Cynthia. Family will recei
 MANNERS--Sydney Howard, MD. Passed away peacefully June 28, 2006 surrounded by his wife, Marie-France and his daughter Robin. Cherished by his family, adored by his friends in NY and France and the patients to whom he dedicated himself for over 45 years in Family Medicine. Proud Royal Air F
 McFADDEN--Samuel Wilton II, M.D. of Marion, MA, June 26. Husband of Nancy (Peters) McFadden, son of Daisy (Poole) McFadden of Bronx, NY and the late Samuel W. McFadden Jr. Father of Jonathan of Los Angeles, CA and U.S.N. Lt. Jesse A. McFadden and his wife Amanda and a grandson Samuel Mason 
 MERINOFF--Herman I. Dear Herman, you were the light that brightened so many lives, especially ours. Sharing important times with you and Sue made them extra special for us. We will miss the glow of your smile, the warmth of your heart, the generosity of your spirit and cherish your memory e
 PAGE--George. The trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation (EBC) mourn the passing of George Page, a public television legend and beloved member of the Thirteen/WNET family for 26 years. As creator, host and narrator of ''Nature'' on PBS, George brought America
 SANCHEZ--Fernando. On June 28, 2006. Born in Belgium in 1935, educated in Paris and worked side by side with Yves Saint Laurent at Dior. He came to New York in the 1960s and went on to achieve international acclaim as a fashion designer. Survived by his beloved cousin and business partner, 
