 Charles Bronson, a muscular coal miner from Pennsylvania who became an international film star and archetypal American tough guy, died Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Lori Jonas.
 David B. Truman, a dynamic, popular dean and provost whose swift rise through the administrative ranks at Columbia University ended in a bitter swirl of recriminations after the student uprising of 1968, died on Thursday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. Widely expected to su
 ABPLANALP--Robert H. The Trustees, Officers, faculty and staff of Fordham Preparatory School mourn the passing and pay tribute to the life and service of Robert H. Abplanalp, '39. It was Mr. Abplanalp's ambition to build a home for Fordham Prep to call its own. It was Mr. Abplanalp who save
 GRAY--Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a very dear friend and special human being. Our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Nicki, children and grandchildren. Gloria and Jay Nichtberger       
 LONDON--Burton Lawrence. On Saturday evening, August 30, 2003, in New York City. Loving and cherished husband of Miriam (Manya), loving and caring father of Gabrielle London Palitz and Lizabeth (Tiza) London. Devoted father-in-law of Michael Palitz and Scott Leventhal, adoring grandfather o
 O'LEARY--John M. A retired New York City Police Officer. Died August 30, 2003. He leaves his wife Elizabeth O'Leary (nee Newbauer), two children Jacqueline Cummaro and Michael (Kathleen) O'Leary, two grandchildren and a sister Margaret Meamey. Wake Monday 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at McMahon Lyon & H
 PERALTA - RAMOS -- Paul. Patron of the arts and a founder of the Millicent Rogers Museum in Taos, New Mexico. Born February 18, 1931, passed away after a long battle with cancer August 26, 2003. A native of New York City, and longtime resident of Taos, New Mexico, he founded the Millicent R
 RASKIN--Jack. On August 30, 2003. Of Huntington, NY. Beloved husband of Doris. Devoted father of Linda and Bob Schwartz, Barbara Raskin, Robert Raskin and Carol Goldstein. Adored grandfather of Philip, Lainie and Sam. RASKIN--Jack. The Board of Governors and members of Cold Spring C
 SOLENDER--Sanford. Born August 23, 1914. Died suddenly August 30. Married 60 years to the late Ethel Klonick Solender. Beloved father of Stephen and Elsa; Peter and Susan; Ellen and Harvey Hirsch; Lawrence and the late Susan Bailis. Adored grandfather of Michael and Holly; Dan and Lynne; Ma
 Amram Ducovny, who realized his dream of becoming a novelist at age 73, died on Aug. 23 in Paris, the city he had moved to so he could concentrate on writing in his retirement. He was 75. The cause was heart disease, said Mr. Ducovny's literary agent, Andrew Blauner. Mr. Duc
 Bishop Donal Lamont, a Roman Catholic missionary who fought efforts to create an apartheid state in the former British colony of Southern Rhodesia -- now Zimbabwe -- after it declared its independence from Britain in 1965, died on Aug. 14 in Dublin. He was 92. Bishop Lamont was appo
 Charles Bronson, a muscular coal miner from Pennsylvania who became an international film star and archetypal American tough guy, died Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Lori Jonas.
 Claude Passeau, an All-Star right-hander who pitched a one-hitter in the 1945 World Series for the Chicago Cubs' last pennant-winning team, died Saturday in Lucedale, Miss. He was 94. Pitching for 13 seasons in the National League, with the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Philadelphia Phill
 John Lansdale Jr., the head of security for the Manhattan Project who helped lead American forces to Germany's atomic bomb project before Soviet forces could reach it, died on Aug. 22 at his home near Annapolis, Md. He was 91. In April 1945, as Allied and Soviet troops were pushing 
 HELLER--Steven. On August 30, 2003. Devoted son of the late Morris and Dorothy. Loving brother/best-friend of Barbara. Great friend/brother of Steven Jacobson and Harry Anifantakis. He will be missed by all who knew him. He was a unique person with a huge heart and a love for animals. Memor
 JUDELSON--Lawrence David, of White Plains, succumbed to pancreatic cancer on August 31, 2003. Mr. Judelson was born in the Bronx on February 24, 1952. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and the Sloan School of Management at MIT, Mr. Judelson worked for Citigroup as a VP in Informa
 LONDON--Burton Lawrence. On Saturday evening, August 30, 2003, in New York City. Loving and cherished husband of Miriam (Manya), loving and caring father of Gabrielle London Palitz and Lizabeth (Tiza) London. Devoted father-in-law of Michael Palitz and Scott Leventhal, adoring grandfather o
 SILBERMAN--Sidney J. The Officers, Board, staff and students of Columbia/Barnard Hillel offer condolences to the family of our devoted Board member. Sidney was a passionate advocate for Columbia Jewish life for three decades. A Founder of our Kraft Center, he cared deeply for his Alma Mater
 SOLENDER--Sanford. Born August 23, 1914. Died suddenly August 30. Married 60 years to the late Ethel Klonick Solender. Beloved father of Stephen and Elsa; Peter and Susan; Ellen and Harvey Hirsch; Lawrence and the late Susan Bailis. Adored grandfather of Michael and Holly; Dan and Lynne; Ma
 SPENCE--Donald A. Died on Saturday, August 30 in Kingston, NY. He was 63 and retired after a long and successful career in marketing. Mr. Spence lived in Bearsville, NY. He was born on August 3, 1940 in Bronxville, NY, son of the late James and Mary Spence. A graduate of Colgate University,
 VON KLEMPERER--Alfred Herbert. Of Doylestown, PA and formerly of Mill Neck, LI, NY, died on August 28, 2003 at the age of 88. A wise leader in his family. His principles and good example will live on through his family. He was for 60 years the greatly loved husband of Nancy Church Logan Von
 YOHALEM--Aaron S. Of Chappaqua, NY, died Sunday, August 31, 2003, at the age of 91. Mr. Yohalem was born in New York City in 1912, graduated from Townsend Harris, City College and NYU Law School. He began his practice of law with the firm of Davis & Gilbert in 1935 and joined the Best Foods
 Robert H. Abplanalp, a friend and confidant of President Richard M. Nixon and an inventor who turned a better aerosol valve into an international business and a personal fortune, died on Saturday at his house in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his son-in-law, Grego
 Franklin L. Ford, who as dean of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences confronted student protesters in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Lexington, Mass. He was 82. He had been in ill health after a stroke, Harvard announced. Dr. Ford became an assistant professor of history a
 CANTOR--Louis. Age 81, died Sept 1, 2003. An accomplished attorney, pre-eminent in the field of construction law, a graduate of Columbia Law School, actively involved in ARMDI (American Red Magan David of Israel), formerly its National Chairman. He also devoted his time to the City College 
 DROB--Frank. Age 77. On September 1, 2003. Of Inverrary, FL. and Flushing, N.Y. He lived and worked by the highest standards of honesty, responsiblity and fairness. He was a devoted and loving husband and father. He leaves his beloved wife of 56 years, Sylvia, two children Sally & Sandy and
 FINKELSTEIN--Nathan. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, and esteemed colleague, Nathan Finkelstein. Our beloved friend operated New York City Yellow Medallion Fleet Taxicabs in conjunction with Midtown Operating Corp. Our industry will forever benefit from his profession
 HALLENBECK -- Luke. On September 2, 2003. Cherished life partner of Thomas Pitcock. Loving brother of William and the late Robert and Germaine Petty. Dear uncle of Germaine Bolhman and many other loving nieces and nephews. Friends may call at the Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker
 JASPAN--Norman. The President and Directors of American Friends of Ariel and the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, Directors, Faculty, Fellows and students of Ariel United Israel Institutes, express sincerest condolences to our devoted Director and Treasurer, Michael, on the passing of his fathe
 LEAVY--Morton L., on Sunday, August 31, at the age of 87, after a prolonged illness. A practicing attorney for six decades, he was devoted to the law, the creativity of his clients, and his family. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Fay, daughters Annette and Jane, their husbands, Jack
 SILBERMAN--Sidney J. Kaye Scholer LLP mourns the loss of Sidney J. Silberman, our colleague and partner from 1952 until his retirement in 1992. Mr. Silberman made invaluable contributions to Kaye Scholer as its Chairman. As head of the Corporate Department as well as an accomplished tax and
 SKEFFINGTON--Thomas J., age 51, of Ridgewood, NJ, died August 31, 2003. Loving friend and husband of Therese Mierswa for 31 years, devoted father of Michael and Peter. Caring son of Virginia and the late Robert Skeffington, and brother of David. Much loved by his parents and brothers and si
 SOLENDER -- Sanford. The Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of our esteemed Life Trustee, Sanford Solender. For over two decades, the Museum benefitted greatly from his attentive involvement and thoughtful presence on our Board. His unflagging enthusiasm for our programs
 WALSH--Joseph N., Jr. New York Medical College mourns the passing of Joseph N. Walsh, Jr., our esteemed colleague and friend. Mr. Walsh was a member of the Board of Trustees since 1989. During his tenure he served on the board's Executive Committee and chaired the Academic Affairs Committee
 Robert Koch, a decorative arts expert who helped make the name Tiffany one that every flea market browser wants to hear, died on Aug. 13 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Stamford. In 1958 Mr. Koch, freshly awarded a doctorate in art history from Yale, was curator for an exh
 Donald H. Davidson, a philosopher whose complex but penetrating insights into topics like linguistic analysis and the nature of truth influenced a generation of thinkers, died on Aug. 31 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Davidson made his mark with a battery of landmark essays over
 BABSON--Irving. The Officers, Governors & Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Irving Babson on September 2, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director 
 BRUELAND -- Harold. The Lawyer's Orchestra mourns the death of bassist Harold Brueland. A renaissance man of grace and humanity, he loved philosophy, music, art and political affairs. We will miss his wry wit, bravery and insuppressible spirit.       
 CANTOR--Lou. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund mourns the loss of its distinguished member and former secretary, Lou Cantor. A devoted alumnus of the College and a member of its track team, he never lost his deep feeling for his alma mater and its students. We extend our heart
 DELANEY--Floyd J., age 80, passed away on September 2nd in Summit, NJ. As an esteemed business owner for 53 years, he was a pioneer in the air conditioning and mechanical contracting trades. A distinguished and engaging gentleman, he was well-traveled and known to many, from heads of state 
 FAIRCHILD -- Julian. The Board of Trustees of The Green - Wood Cemetery mourn the passing of Julian Douglas Fairchild, Trustee and former Chairman, who served the cemetery faithfully for over 40 years. Throughout his tenure on the Board, he resourcefully guided Green-Wood with devotion and 
 FUCHS--Abraham. Congregation Ohab Zedek of Belle Harbor, NY, records with sorrow the passing of our beloved Hazzan. He served as our Cantor for more than four decades. In the course of this time he inspired our congregation with his masterful liturgical interpretation of our prayers, liftin
 GIBBS--Eli C., September 2, at the age of 85. Beloved husband of Bernice. Adored father of Karen and Joy. Dear father-in-law of Jerry. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey, Bradley and Michele. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 HUROWITZ--Susan. The officers, staff and membership of New York Electrical Contractors Association mourns the passing of Susan Hurowitz, wife of Monte Hurowitz, our longtime friend and associate. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Howard Hirsch, President Joseph D'Angelo, 
 JASPAN--Norman. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, husband of the late Dr. Jeanne Rafsky Jaspan, father of Michael (and Terry) Jaspan and Ronald (and Michele) Jaspan and brother of Ruth Hauser. The University is grateful f
 MOORE--Harry Clare, Sr. The Board of Directors and staff of the Lyford Cay Foundation, Inc. and The Canadian Lyford Cay Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of our friend Harry C. Moore, Sr. Mr. Moore became a Director of the Lyford Cay Foundation in 1979. He served as Treasurer from
 PLOTKIN--Zalman, MD. On September 2, 2003. Renowned internist and cardiologist, whose 59 years of medical practice were in NY and CA. An ardent Zionist, he was medical student delegate to the Second Zionist Congress in Vienna; President of Revisionists Western States; Close personal friend 
 RAUSNITZ--Walter. The Officers, Governors & Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Walter Rausnitz on August 22, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Directo
 ROMOSER -- Robert Allan Schumm. In New Buffalo, MI August 30, 2003. Beloved father of daughters Leslie R. Rylee and her husband Robert of NYC, and Whitney R. Savignano and her husband Nicola of Beverly Farms, MA. Devoted grandfather of Preston Rylee, Michela Savignano and Costantino Savigna
 SCHACHTER--Jack, September 2, 2003, in Boca Raton, FL. Loving husband of the late Shirley Schachter. Loving father of Robert and Wendy Schachter and Gloria and Norman Goldblatt. Devoted grandfather of Adam, Beatriz, Eric and Andrea. He is also survived by sisters Mildred Newman and Helen Li
 SOLENDER--Sanford. Americans for Peace Now mourns the passing of our long-time Executive Committee and Board member, Sanford Solender, who was deeply committed to improving the lives of the Jewish people, securing a lasting peace for the State of Israel, and building a better country for al
 TARLOW--Arthur. Of East Meadow, N.Y. Suddenly on September 2, 2003. Devoted husband of the late Harriet S. Beloved father of Harold, Michael & Mindy, and beloved grandfather of Zachary. Funeral service noon Friday, visiting Thursday 7 to 9PM, both at Gutterman's, 175 North Long Beach Road, 
 WEISBERG--David Charles, passed away in Los Angeles on August 31, 2003. Beloved husband of Katherine; father of Chloe and Victor; son of Alan and the late Marian Weisberg. VP of the architecture firm Wimberly Allison Tong & Goo. To our deep sadness, David's remarkable courage, determination
 Raymond Walters Jr., a retired editor for The New York Times Book Review who established and wrote the Paperback Talk column, died on Aug. 30 in Columbus, Ohio, where he moved in 2001. He was 91 and a longtime resident of Manhattan. The column appeared weekly in the 1970's and early
 Sidney J. Silberman, formerly head of the New York law firm of Kaye Scholer and a prominent philanthropist in Jewish community organizations, died on Friday at his home in White Plains. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Judy Aqua. From 197
 Dr. Werner Goldsmith, an authority on the mechanics of collisions who went on to become a leader in the study of head injuries, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 79. A professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Dr. Goldsmith published hi
 Alan Dugan, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet whose ironic and unsentimental verse pondered the challenge of finding freedom and purpose in moments of ordinary life, died on Wednesday in Hyannis, Mass. He was 80, and lived in Truro, Mass. The cause was pneumonia, which followed many hea
 Gen. Raymond G. Davis, who received the Medal of Honor for leading a storied rescue of fellow marines besieged by Chinese troops at the Chosin Reservoir during the Korean War, died on Wednesday in Conyers, Ga., outside Atlanta. He was 88 and lived in the nearby town of Stockbridge. 
 Horace W. Babcock, an innovative astronomer who helped establish the Las Campanas Observatory in northern Chile and developed technology to improve the telescope, died on Aug. 29 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 90. In the early 1960's, while director of the Mount Wilson and Mount Pa
 BABSON--Irving K. We are heartbroken and mourn the loss of a magnificent friend and an extraordinary human being. Irv was a man of deep integrity and profound wisdom who continually demonstrated the bottomless nature of his heart. His devotion and commitment to his friends and family was an
 BARCHILON--Jose, M.D. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their longtime colleague, Dr. Jose Barchilon. He was a beloved teacher and friend to many of our members during their psychiatric training and beyond. He was dedicated to psychoanalysis 
 BRANCHE--Rev. John S., 73 died peacefully September 3, 2003 in the home of his children in Easthampton, MA. The Funeral will be Saturday morning 9 A.M. from the Ahearn Funeral Home, 783 Bridge Rd., Northampton, MA followed by a Mass of Christian Burial in St. Mary's Church at 10 A.M. Burial
 BUCK--Max E. Of NBC/TV died August 29, 2003. He was admired by all who knew him. He will be missed.       
 CRISONA--James J., 96, on September 4, 2003. A graduate of NYU Law School, he had a long and distinguished career as an attorney in NYC. He was a director and general counsel of the Hudson Manhattan Railroad from 1948-1954 and later a director and general counsel of the Phoenix Campbell Cor
 DREXLER--Dr. Alfred. Beloved husband of the late Gladys Drexler. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Member. We extend deepest sympathy to his son Stephen, to Carol his longtime companion, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borod
 FALK--George. September 3, 2003, age 89, Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of Betty, devoted father of Kenneth (Barbara), Theodore (Ginnie), Stephan. Cherished grandfather of Andrew (Amy), David (Melissa), Jenn ifer (Jose), Jeffrey (Melissa), Lindsey, Amy, Daniel and great grandfather of
 GIBBS--Eli C., Sept. 2, at the age of 85. Beloved husband of Bernice. Adored father of Karen and Joy. Dear fatherin-law of Jerry. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey, Bradley and Michele. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 HART--Allan. The partners and employees of the law firm of Hartman, Ule, Rose & Ratner LLP extend their condolences to the family of Allan Hart, our friend and client of many years. Allan was the President of Boulevard Tenants Corp., a cooperative corporation in Forest Hills, and through hi
 HELLER--Lawrence. On September 2, 2003. Graduate of Harvard College. He was a decorated war veteran. Dearly beloved by Ellie, his wife of 61 years, sons Bruce and Paul, grandchildren Alec, Amanda, Josh and Rachel. He will be deeply missed. HELLER -- Larry. Beloved husband of Elly, l
 KAPLAN -- Hyman ''Bob''. Husband of Estelle (nee Richter, deceased), son of Bessie and Abram (deceased), brother of Dora (deceased) and Min, father of Robert, David and Lawrence, grandfather of Jake, Sarah, Veronica, Daniel, Leila and Jonathan (Tait), uncle of Esta, Rona, Michael and Susan 
 KOCH--Robert. A great scholar of the work of Louis C. Tiffany. We will miss his expertise. Condolences to his family. Lillian Nassau Ltd.       
 MILLER--Rabbi Pincus. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, master teacher of Jewish texts in Pittsburgh. We extend our deepest condolences to his daughter, Adina, sister, Yekara, and all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 SCHEINBACH -- Milton. Passed away peacefully with family at his side. He was the beloved husband of the late Rosalie. Survived by his loving children, Gail and Barry, son-in-law Robert and cherished grandchildren David and Lauren. His devotion to his family, strong spirit and loving hand at
 SOLENDER -- Sanford. The Board of Trustees of North General Hospital extends heartfelt sympathy to our Advisory Committee Chairman, Stephen Solender, and his family, on the passing of his father, Sanford. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family during this time of mourning. Gene Norman
 STEIN--Howard. The Poly Prep community and family extend our deepest condolences to the friends and family of Howard Stein, particularly to his children, Micaela and Leonora, and his wife and our devoted teacher, Louise Forsyth. Donald Carswell, Chairman David Harman, Headmaster Poly Prep C
 TOPAL--Donald on September 3, 2003. Loving husband and companion of fifty-three years to Lois. Devoted father of Robert and the late Laurie. Father-in-law of Laurie, John and Atsuko. A proud grandfather of Jesse and Dylan, Ashley and Jeffrey, and Thomas and Christina. Two brothers and their
 H. Erich Heinemann, an economist and financial writer who moved between careers for nearly 40 years, died in an automobile accident on Thursday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Great Neck. A cause of death has not been announced, pending a coroner's report, but Mr. Heinema
 Moe Biller, a union scrapper who battled postmasters and presidents to lead postal workers out of poverty with illegal strikes, protests and six decades of hard-nosed bargaining that made him America's best-known postal union leader, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.      
 BABSON--Irving K. A man for all seasons. We mourn the loss and celebrate the life. An extraordinary friend who spread joy and kindness every day of his life. Marjorie & Irwin Breitman       
 DIAMOND--Daniel. Attorney at law on September 4, 2003 at the age of 94. Husband of the late Doe. Father of Peter and the late Richard. Fatherin-law of Alyce and Kate. Grandfather of Roberta, Debbie, Matt and Andy. Grandfather-in-law of Jeff and great grandfather of Michael, Zachary and Marg
 DREXLER -- Alfred, M.D. Died September 4, at 92 in Harrison, NY. Cherished father of Dr. Steven and daughter-in-law Susan. Loving grandfather of David and Alyssa. Beloved husband of the late Gladys Nimaroff Drexler. Dear brother of Dr. Milton and sister-in-law Mollie. Treasured uncle to num
 DUVEEN--Benjamin H. Jr, 91, of Port Chester, NY, passed away on September 4, 2003, the result of a stroke. Ben was a naturalist and bird watcher and possessed a solid knowledge of bird migrations and habitats. He had a keen sense of humor and an undying faith in manners and decorum. He was 
 FREED--Harold. On September 4, 2003. My dearest husband, I am devastated, lost and alone. You are my only love. May you find peace with David. Esther FREED--Harold. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Harold Freed
 MESSNER -- Christopher G. On September 5, 2003 at age 44. Brother of Thomas and his wife Terry and Patricia and her husband Antonino Giresi. Godfather of Zachary Messner, uncle of Patrick and Matthew Sinclair and Antonino and Melissa Giresi. Chris never grew up (happily by the way) and desp
 WEISS--Hugo. The Members and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Partner, David Hamm, his wife, Margie and their entire family, on the passing of Margie's father. A Holocaust survivor, he remained ever faithful to his heritage. Herbert Rubin Herzfeld & Rub
 Tibor Varga, a violinist, conductor and teacher who was famous in Europe for his interpretations of modern classical compositions, died on Thursday at his home in Grimisuat, Switzerland. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Angelika Varga-Behrer. As a musi
 William Roy, a pianist, songwriter, singer, musical director and actor, died on Tuesday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75. The cause was respiratory failure after a series of small strokes, said his companion, Wayne Hosford. During the last two decades Mr. Roy was best know
 Msgr. Robert P. Hupp, who led Boys Town, the Nebraska home for needy and troubled boys, through far-reaching changes including the admission of girls, died on Aug. 29 in Mausten, Wis. He was 88. The girls came in 1979, but Boys Town did not become Girls and Boys Town until 2000. But
 BABSON--Irving K. 67, a well known trade publishing executive, passed from this earth on September 2, 2003. He was a resident of Turnberry Isle, Aventura (Miami, FL). Mr. Babson was the former Chairman of BMT Publications, Inc., New York, NY, a division of TSF Communications. He joined BMT 
 BASSO -- Dominic Walter. Died suddenly on August 22, 2003. A graduate of the H.S. of Art & Design and Pratt Institute, he founded Dominic Basso Design in the early 1980's, becoming nationally renowned for his unique architectural and decorative styles. He was a devoted brother, a beloved un
 BIANCHETTI--Alfred Joseph. On September 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving brother of Edward. He is also survived by his children Robert, Richard and Susan, and grandchildren Matthew, Christopher, Samantha, Patrick, Caroline and Ryan. A truly accomplished man, Alfred was a very succe
 BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. Age 98, of Palm Beach, FL, and Boston. On September 5, 2003, at home in Boston, after a brief illness. Distinguished and respected lawyer for 62 years, Founder of Brown Rudnick, Freed and Gesmer, P.C., Boston, generous philanthropist, passionate lifelong advo
 BRUELAND--Harold, on September 2, 2003. Survived by his sisters, Marjorie (Ronald) Blommel and Naida Brueland. Services Monday, September 8, 6 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Family will be receiving at the Funeral Home prior to the service from 4:30-6 PM.       
 CABRAL--Pedro Chapman, beloved husband of Susan, father of Anna, Lorelei and Maggie, father-in-law of Josh Drew and Kit Griffith, died at home in his sleep on August 30, 2003. He was 80 years old. Pedro served in the 4th Infantry division of the US Army as a first aid man in World War II an
 DREXLER -- Alfred, M.D. Died September 4, at 92 in Harrison, NY. Cherished father of Dr. Steven and daughter-in-law Susan. Loving grandfather of David and Alyssa. Beloved husband of the late Gladys Nimaroff Drexler. Dear brother of Dr. Milton and sister-in-law Mollie. Treasured uncle to num
 FOSTER -- Colonel Rafe Robert. Deputy chief counsel, administrative law division, office of The Judge Advocate General, age 42, died Thursday, September 4, 2003 after a brave battle with cancer, surrounded by his loving family. No words can carry the sweetness and strength of Rafe's charact
 GILL--William J. Born May 5, 1922 in NYC, died September 3, 2003. Author, patriot, man of ideas; beloved husband. Survived by his wife, Countess von Podewils, his two sons Brian and Christopher, two stepdaughters, sisters Patricia Singleton-Green of NYC, Irene Hollenbach of Chesapeake City,
 GILRAIN--Gerard J. Private services were held for Gerard J. Gilrain, 74, of Montville, NJ. Mr. Gilrain died at his home on August 13 after a long illness. His career as an executive in the printing industry spanned over fifty years. Mr. Gilrain attended St. John's University and had been a 
 GRAEBER--Eric Alan. Died on September 2, 2003, at the age of 51, after a prolonged battle with cancer. A lifelong resident of Manhattan, he worked for 22 years at the Library of the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesman, serving as its head librarian for the last decade. He compiled an
 KING-WOOD--O. David. Who taught English and French at St. Bernard's School for fortyones years, died on September 3, 2003, nine days before his ninetieth birthday. Two generations of students and colleagues mourn his loss, but will cherish his memory. Instead of flowers please send contribu
 KORNBLUTH--Marvin ''Buddy.'' Born February 14, 1916, passed away September 3, 2003, on Monhegan Island, ME. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Frances Schachter Kornbluth, son Bruce, daughter Jane, grandson Ian, brother Robert and in-laws Jan and Arlene. He resided in North Grosvenorda
 MALLOY--Joseph D. On September 1, 2003, in Huntington, LI. Survived by his wife Vivian and children David, Barbara, Cathy and Steven. Also grandfather of Jessica and Sarah Meg. Mourned by all including his sisters Madeline Anbinder and Tobene Rosenthal, his brother Howard Malloy and sister-
 MESSNER -- Christopher G. On September 5, 2003 at age 44. Brother of Thomas and his wife Terry and Patricia and her husband Antonino Giresi. Godfather of Zachary Messner, uncle of Patrick and Matthew Sinclair and Antonino and Melissa Giresi. Chris never grew up (happily by the way) and desp
 SALPETER -- Richard. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Richard Salpeter, son of Bernice Tannenbaum, our esteemed Past President. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 SORGI--Vincent, Jr., part time resident of Santa Fe for 18 years, beloved friend of all who knew him, dutiful son, loving brother, and devoted companion, died Thursday, August 28, 2003 in Santa Fe. Mr. Sorgi was born in Delran, NJ, December 13, 1947. He resided at 815 East Palace Avenue and
 SUNG--Yen Chin. Age 75, beloved husband of Tsui Chuan Sung; survivors include his devoted children, Wei Fun Sung, Douglas-Hung Tu Sung, Wei Nee Sung and Wei Wen Sung, grandchildren Forrest Sung, Nicholas and Sarah Samel, Lara and Caroline Fishbane. A funeral service will be held on Sunday, 
 WEINSTOCK -- Mandel George. Born May 19th, 1909, in New York. Died August 25th, 2003, in Los Angeles. He is survived by Ida, his wife for 67 years, his daughter, Diana, Ph.D., and son, Robert, M.D. He was a devoted, wise, inspirational, loving, treasured husband and father, with a voracious
 WEIR--David Andrew Jr. Of Loudonville, former president of Pepsi-Cola Allied Bottlers died on September 4, 2003, in Boston, MA, of complications from surgery. He was 79. Mr. Weir was born on February 2, 1924, in South Bend, IN, to David A. and Marie Broussard Weir. Mr. Weir was raised and r
 WILLIAMS--Robert P. of New York and Putnam Counties, passed away on August 28. Survived by Jean Williams, his wife of 44 years; daughters, Dr. Catherine Williams and MaryBeth Williams; sons, Dr. Peter B. Williams, Dr. Wilfred A. Williams, Francis X. and Joseph S.; grandchildren, Ariel, Meli
 ZINAR--Milton. 90, died on September 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Lawrence Zinar and Susan Grunberg. Cherished brother of Beatrice Katon. Loving grandfather of Michelle, Elizabeth and Alan. A man of great integrity and wit, he will be missed by his many friends and re
 Benjamin Merrill Holt Jr., an early designer of geothermal power plants, died on Aug. 22 at his home in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 89. In 1961, Mr. Holt, who was known as Ben, started the Ben Holt Company, an engineering concern that designed oil refineries in California. The com
 ABELES--Dr. Hans. Passed away September 6, 2003, at the age of 90. He was the devoted husband of Ilse (nee Echter) and loving father of Naomi Kraft and Terry Abeles. Beloved grandfather of Marissa and Monika Kraft. He is also survived by his brother Alfred Abeles. Dr. Abeles was a pulmonary
 BIANCHETTI--Alfred Joseph. On September 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Alice. Loving brother of Edward. He is also survived by his children Robert, Richard and Susan, and grandchildren Matthew, Christopher, Samantha, Patrick, Caroline and Ryan. A truly accomplished man, Alfred was a very succe
 BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. Age 98, of Palm Beach, FL, and Boston. On September 5, 2003, at home in Boston, after a brief illness. Distinguished and respected lawyer for 62 years, Founder of Brown Rudnick, Freed and Gesmer, P.C., Boston, generous philanthropist, passionate lifelong advo
 DEE--John T. Of McAllister Drive, Saratoga Springs, and East 69th Street, Manhattan, died Friday, September 5, 2003, at Saratoga Hospital. He was 65. Born on July 25, 1938, in St. Louis, MO, he was a son of the late John F. and Alice D. (Kelly) Dee. Mr. Dee was a graduate of Cleveland High 
 HEINEMANN--H. Erich. Colleague and friend. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Sally, and to the entire family. Brimberg & Co.       
 JOSEPH--Paul R A wonderful and devoted husband, son, stepfather, grandfather and friend, left us much too soon, at age 52 on September 6, 2003 in Plantation, Florida. Paul leaves behind his adoring wife, Dr. Lynn Wolf, his loving stepchildren, Brian and Nikki Kopelowitz and Jill Kopel and S
 KAHAN--Herbert. Died Saturday at home. He was predeceased by his siblings, Abe, Mary, Henrietta and Sam. He was the Patriarch of his extended family. He was devoted to his wife Lillian, of 60 years, and his children, Mark Kahan (Linda) of Silver Spring, MD; Robert Kahan (Candace) of Longmea
 KING-WOOD--O. David. Who taught English and French at St. Bernard's School for fortyones years, died on September 3, 2003, nine days before his ninetieth birthday. Two generations of students and colleagues mourn his loss, but will cherish his memory. Instead of flowers please send contribu
 KONVITZ--Milton Ridvas. Beloved husband of Mary, father of Josef, father-in-law of Isa, grandfather of Eli and Ezra, brother of Phillip, uncle and grand-uncle, died in his 96th year on September 5, 2003. Teacher and mentor of generations of Cornellians, scholar of American constitutional la
 TUCKER--Marvin. Age 80 of Boca Raton, FL, passed away Saturday, September 6. He was a wonderful husband, loving father, devoted grandfather, and a special fatherin-law. Mr. Tucker was the founder of M. Tucker Company. He is survived by his wife Judith, three sons, Stephen (Ellen), Neil (Min
 Dr. Robert F. Kallman, a Stanford University scientist who did early research on the effects of radiation on cancer cells, helping to establish the practice as a standard treatment, died on Aug. 8 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81. The cause was lung disease, said 
 Sanford Solender, who held several top jobs in Jewish philanthropies and served on urban-policy advisory boards in New York City, died on Aug. 30 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Sarasota. For five decades, Mr. Solender, a social worker by profession, was active in Jewish co
 Sir Terry Frost, an eminent British abstract painter, died last Monday at St. Julia's Hospice near his home in Newlyn, Cornwall. He was 87. For more than five decades, Sir Terry remained dedicated to abstraction, painting in a style that combined Cubist order, Matissean sensuousness
 Dr. Jose Barchilon, a psychoanalyst and educator who studied the unconscious roots of creativity and mental illness, died on Aug. 6 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. In addition to training and teaching in New York and Denver, Dr. Barchilon wrote extensively, including ea
 Dr. James Rachels, a philosopher and medical ethicist who wrote some of the most influential works on euthanasia, arguing that the legal distinction between killing and passively allowing a patient's death had no rational basis, died on Friday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala. He was 62.   
 ABELES--Hans, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of a distinguished physician who was a founding member of our faculty in 1955 and remained associated with us for more than 45 years. We extend our condolences to his entire family. Dominick P. Purp
 BIANCHETTI--Alfred Joseph. The board, staff, adult mentors and the Little Brothers and Sisters of Catholic Big Brothers express their extreme condolences to Mrs. Alice Bianchetti and to all the Bianchetti family. Al will be fondly remembered as a dedicated board member, inspirational Big Br
 DINAN -- Jeannette. The Board, staff and students of Publicolor join us in sending deepest condolences to our cherished Board member, Jamie Dinan, and his entire family, on the passing of his mother. Jeannette Dinan gave the world an extraordinary son whose kindness and thoughtfulness disti
 HARRIS--Harold, of Roslyn Heights, NY, on September 7, 2003. Former political columnist for three New York City newspapers and former assistant press secretary to Governors Rockefeller and Wilson. Past president of The Inner Circle. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Sharon Danni
 KATZ--Evelyn. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our esteemed vice president Jeffrey Katz and extends to him our heartfelt condolences.       
 KONVITZ--Milton R. The Center for Jewish Living at Cornell mourns its beloved friend and mentor Milton R. Konvitz. His devotion to liberty, freedom and tolerance will always be remembered. His exemplary courage in advocating and establishing a residential living unit at Cornell University w
 LIPPMANN--Thomas J., 64, died September 5, 2003 of ALS. Founder and President of DBL Operating Corp. Survived by his wife, Susan, sons, Greg and Mark, and their wives, Kimberly and Sharon, and grandson, Samuel. A memorial service will be held Sunday, September 14th, at 3 PM, at Scarsdale Sy
 LOPATIN--Joseph. The Auxiliary Minyan of Congregation Ahavath Torah expresses its profound and heartfelt condolences to Sara, Uri, Shoshana and Amir on the loss of your dear husband and father, Yussie. We shall always cherish and admire his deep love for his friends, community and people.  
 MAHONY--Grace M. (nee Sullivan). Died peacefully on September 6, 2003, after a short illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Paul A. Mahony. Devoted mother of Paul A. Mahony, his wife, Mary, Sheila A. Mahony, her husband Charles Riggs, Robert E. Mahony, his wife Chr
 McKENNAN--Dave. A gentle, humorous, capable, intelligent man who brought out the best in all whose paths crossed his. His life with Betsy was magical. We will miss him. Alvin & Eleanor Donnenfeld       
 REINGOLD--Haim, 93. Beloved husband of Badonna Levinson Reingold and the late Leah Jacobson Reingold, father of Edward (Ruth), Arthur (Gail Bolan) and David, grandfather of seven grandchildren, great grandfather of five brother of the late Samuel, Dvora and Jacob. Born in Lodz, Poland, rais
 ROBERTS--N. Craig. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, N. Craig Roberts. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary       
 STEIN--Philip. Born September 14, 1983, died September 5, 2003. His life was tragically ended in an automobile accident. Beloved son of Jane and Edward, brother of Frannie, grandson of Alvin and Dorothy Schwartz, both deceased, Getrude and Philip Stein, both deceased, nephew of Tom and Lonn
 WEINBERGER--Howard A. Dr. A well known pioneering surgeon, died at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital on September 7. He graduated Summa Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa in 1936 from the Johns Hopkins University. His medical degree was awarded by the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in 1940. Dur
 WEISMAN--Irving, 89. Predeceased by his beloved wife Dolly. Survived by his loving daughters Judith (Harold) Ellison, Linda Blumsack, Gayle (Marc) Clachko and Patricia (Rob) Ivry, 12 cherished grandchildren, and 11 adored great-grandchildren. Donations to: Hackensack University Medical Cent
 Warren Zevon, a singer and songwriter who came up with hard-boiled stories and tender confessions of love, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, which was diagnosed last summer. Mr. Zevon had a pulp-fiction imagination that yielded 
 Charles E. Bennett, a Florida Democrat who was a champion of ethical reforms in Congress and who sponsored the legislation that put ''In God We Trust'' on currency, died on Sept. 6 in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Bennett spent 44 years in the House of Representatives, more than
 Edward Teller, who was present at the creation of the first nuclear weapons and who grew even more famous for defending them, died yesterday at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif., according to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which Dr. Teller once hea
 Edward Teller, who was present at the creation of the first nuclear weapons and who grew even more famous for defending them, died yesterday at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif., according to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which Dr. Teller once hea
 James J. Crisona, a Democrat who served successively in New York State's Assembly and Senate, as borough president of Queens and as a justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died on Thursday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Manhattan. 
 COOK--Aubrey William on September 5, 2003. Former Officer in the British Navy and served during World War II on the British HMS Retreiver. A Memorial Service in his memory will be held on Friday, September 12 at John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave, NYC from 4-5 PM. In lieu of flowers do
 DIONNE--Brian J., of Concord Village, Brooklyn, NY, on September 6 at age 51. Devoted friend and inspiration to many, and the developmentally disabled of NYC. His humor and guidance will be sorely missed by all including his mother, Mary Dionne, sister, Mary (Frank) Lopez, brothers, Daniel 
 GOODMAN--Saul. Born April 20, 1919, died September 8, 2003. Beloved uncle of Sandra G. Ortner, I. Michael Goodman and Michael Steig. Dance author and lecturer. Feature writer for ''Dance Magazine'' where he published 232 dancer biographies and 13 featured articles. Publications: ''Dancers Y
 HAINES -- Alexander died peacefully on September 8, 2003. Born in London on July 11, 1914, Alec served with honor in the RAF in Africa and Italy during WWII, and emigrated to New York in 1946. A past secretary of the Designer's Club in New York's garment district, Alec was also an active me
 KONVITZ--Milton R., September 5, 2003. Cornell University mourns the passing of Milton R. Konvitz, Cornell Professor Emeritus. A brilliant scholar in constitutional and labor law, civil and human rights, and a beloved professor and mentor to countless Cornell students, Professor Konvitz was
 MAHONY--Grace M. (nee Sullivan). Died peacefully on September 6, 2003, after a short illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Paul A. Mahony. Devoted mother of Paul A. Mahony, his wife, Mary, Sheila A. Mahony, her husband Charles Riggs, Robert E. Mahony, his wife Chr
 McKENNAN--Dave. A gentle, humorous, capable, intelligent man who brought out the best in all whose paths crossed his. His life with Betsy was magical. We will miss him. Alvin & Eleanor Donnenfeld       
 OELBAUM -- Gilbert. Died September 7, 2003, at peace and with loving family by his side. Husband of Carol. Father of Steve and Barbara. Grandfather of Matt, Elizabeth, Erica and Kyle, storyteller to the world. We love you and miss you already.       
 OSBORNE--James M. Jr. Passed away peacefully on September 6, 2003, at Appleberry Farm, Sandy Hook, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Betty Lou Brown Osborne, his wife of 55 years, he will also be dearly missed by his family: J. Robert Osborne, his wife Inge of Hamden, their children Owen, Dev
 ROBERTS--Dr. Craig. We mourn the loss of and fondly remember our brother-inlaw, Dr. Craig Roberts. Beloved husband of our dear sister Flori. Devoted and caring father, grandfather and friend to so many. May his soul rest in peace. Mildred and Abby Levine and Family       
 SHAPIRO--Alan Peter. He lived a life that gave joy and service to all who knew him. A devoted and loving husband, father, grandfather, brother, brother-in-law and an incomparable friend of ours. Our loss is beyond sadness, but we cherish over 75 years of wonderful memories. Never to be forg
 WEINBERGER--Howard A., M.D. The Physicians' Attending Association, Inc. of Leonox Hill Hospital deeply mourns the passing of Howard A. Weinberger, M.D., a member of the Department of Surgery for the past 59 years. Dr. Weinberger was a very esteemed and well loved physician who passed along 
 Few, if any, physicists of this century have generated such heated debate as Edward Teller. Much of it centered on his decade-long effort to produce the hydrogen bomb, his ardent promotion of nuclear weapons in general, his deep suspicion of Soviet intentions and his opposition to curtailme
 Warren Kremer, a cartoonist whose lush, rounded brush style defined the appearance of comic-book characters from Richie Rich to Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on July 24 in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Bloomfield, N.J. Along with Alfred Harvey, the publisher of Harvey Co
 C. H. Sisson, a respected though not widely known British poet, translator and critic, who carefully avoided living the literary life, died on Friday at his home in the village of Langport in southwest England. He was 89. A professional civil servant, Mr. Sisson spent his life worki
 Edward Teller, a towering figure of science who had a singular impact on the development of the nuclear age, died late Tuesday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 95. Widely seen as a troubled genius, Dr. Teller generated hot debate for more than a half century, even as he engend
 Milton R. Konvitz, an influential constitutional scholar who prepared pioneering civil rights cases with Thurgood Marshall, inspired Ruth Bader Ginsburg when she was a student and helped write a constitution for Liberia, died on Friday in Monmouth, N.J. He was 95 and lived in Oakhurst, N.J.
 GEORGIS--Ted W., born 1924 in Chicago, died September 8, 2003, in San Diego, CA. He was 78. Ted Georgis is survived by his wife and dearest friend of 50 years, Mitzie of La Jolla, CA; a daughter and two sons: Demetra Bowles Lathrop, and spouse Thomas Lathrop, of San Francisco; Dr. Theodore 
 LASKY--Solomon. Of Fresh Meadows, NY, passed away peacefully at 94 years of age on September 10, 2003 with his family by his side. Loving and devoted husband to Ruth for 60 years, wonderful father to Diane and husband Joel Kushins, Malla Pollack, and Gail and husband Mark Posner, loving and
 LEVINE--Louis. Surrounded by his loving family, on September 9, 2003. Husband for 66 years of Janet Levine, father of Karen Feldgus (Robert) and Alan D. Levine (Sandra), grandfather of Gabriel Levine, Kyle Moreno (Luis) and Grady Feldgus. Services at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd, t
 RIFKIN--Bernard M. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of an esteemed leader and colleague Bernard M. Rifkin. He was an ardent Zionist and served the cause of Israel and ZOA for six decades. We extend heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family. May they find comfort amo
 WALSH--Edward V., Jr. On September 9, 2003, of Stuart, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY. Esteemed law partner of Lawrence S. Lawrence since 1980 in Lawrence and Walsh, PC, of Hempstead, NY. Retired in 1998, we frequently relied on his intelligence and good counsel. He will be truly missed. A
 FRIEDMAN--Paul. Perished on September 11, 2001 on Flight 11. He was a precious son, husband, Daddy, and brother, and there is an emptiness in our lives where he once was. Selma, Iris, Amy, James, Meryl, Audrey & Little Rocky       
 LEVIN--Neil. In honored memory of my beloved son, Neil and the men and women who perished with him on 9/11/01. Gloria Levin LEVIN--Neil D. To our Neil, We miss you every day. Love Stan, Robin, Adam, and Kimmy       
 THOMPSON -- Nigel Bruce. ''And, when he shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night, And pay no worship to the garish sun.'' Always, Rosana       
 ARMSTEAD -- Robert. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art deeply mourn the passing of our devoted colleague and friend, Robert Armstead, a special security officer at the Museum for 21 years. Before retiring in 1996, he demonstrated unflagging warmth to generations of vis
 BENNETT BENETSKY--Rudolph. Of Marshfield, MA, formerly of NYC and Camden, ME. September 9, 2003. Retired Broadway music director, vocal coach and orchestra conductor. Beloved husband of Barbara Regan Bennett. Loving father of Marissa Benetsky of NYC. Also survived by his dog Jake. Donations
 BERNSTEIN -- Harold. The partners and staff of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP express their deepest sympathies to their partner, Joel Bernstein on the passing of his father, Harold; we extend our condolences to his wife, siblings and grandchildren. Goodkind, Labaton, Rudoff & Suchar
 FRIEDLANDER--Gordon D. Died peacefully at home in Tarrytown, NY on September 9, 2003 at age 83. He is survived by his beloved wife Florence Covino and many loving nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and very dear cousins in Germany. He was the son of the late eminent American sculpto
 GOTT--Peter J. Graphic artist, on September 10, 2003. Beloved husband of Lisa A. Rathgeb, beloved son of Lois and William Gott and brother of James, Paul, Karen, Victoria and Walter, James and Coleen. His loving ways and his passion for art and music will be remembered always. Visiting hour
 HERLINGER--Fred. Age 99. Died peacefully on September 10, 2003. Survived by his daughter Susan (Joel) Braverman and his two grandchildren Seth (Julie Stewart) Braverman and Jill (Mark) Blackman.       
 HERSHKOWITZ -- Paul. Passed away on September 9, 2003. Beloved husband of Goldie. Wonderful father to Joel and his wife Bela Hershkowitz and Linda and her husband Bruce Brookoff. Grandfather to Adam, David, Alan and Greg. We light a cigar in his honor.       
 KERN--David. Of Sunrise, FL, passed away September 10, 2003. He was dearly loved by his wife, Sondra Kolker-Kern; sons, Matthew (Debbie) and Alex (Lisa), and many family members and close friends. David touched the lives of all who knew him.       
 LIPPMANN -- Thomas. The members of Scarsdale Synagogue - Tremont Temple mourn the death of Thomas Lippmann, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to his wife Susan, his children Gregg and Kimberly, Mark and Sharon, his grand child, Sam and the entire family. Stephe
 McKENNAN--Dave. Beloved husband of Betsy Adams. Loving son of Doris and Robert McKennan. Ideal sonin-law of Margot and Mason Adams. Best brother of Debby McKennan, Don McKennan and Jane Rottenbach. Cherished brother-in-law of Bill Adams and Alix Pearlstein. A special man cherished by all wh
 PLOTKIN--Samuel, on September 11, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Marc and the late Diane. Cherished grandfather and great-grandfather. For service information, contact ''The Riverside'' 212-362-6600. PLOTKIN--Hon. Samuel. The Board of Trustees, Administrat
 RIFKIN--Bernard M. Beloved brother of Arthur and Lois. Uncle of Beth, Terry and Leah. Great-uncle of Judah and Keli, Alana and David. He was the Executive Vice President of Ticor Title Insurance Company and past Chief Counsel of Title Guarantee New York. A past Chairman of the Real Property
 John Ritter, who played the lovably goofy closet heterosexual Jack Tripper in the television comedy series ''Three's Company,'' a smash hit in the 1970's, died on Thursday night in Burbank, Calif. He was 54. Mr. Ritter became ill on the set of ''8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage 
 Johnny Cash, whose gravelly bass-baritone was the vocal bedrock of American country music for more than four decades, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 71 and lived nearby in Hendersonville, Tenn. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Lou Robin, Mr. Cash's manager.        
 FRIEDMAN -- Sheldon. A prominent Seventh Avenue dress manufacturer of Fort Lee, NJ, on September 12, 2003. Beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Siegel). Brother of Renee Gold. Devoted uncle of his nieces and nephews. For my best friend, you were the love of my life, and always will be. Now you a
 GENTRY -- Herbert. Artist. Died on September 8, 2003 in Stockholm, Sweden at age 84. He is survived by his wife Mary Anne Rose of New York City; his children Stefan James Gentry, Nickolas Gentry, Elsa Kant, Alain H. Gentry and Therese Gentry.       
 GOLDSTEIN--Fred. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member and past President. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Sunday, September 14, 2003 at 2pm. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Wein
 GOTT--Peter J. Graphic artist, on September 10, 2003. Beloved husband of Lisa A. Rathgeb, beloved son of Lois and William Gott and brother of James, Paul, Karen, Victoria and Walter, James and Coleen. His loving ways and his passion for art and music will be remembered always. Visiting hour
 McKENNAN--Dave. Beloved husband of Betsy Adams. Loving son of Doris and Robert McKennan. Ideal sonin-law of Margot and Mason Adams. Best brother of Debby McKennan, Don McKennan and Jane Rottenbach. Cherished brother-in-law of Bill Adams and Alix Pearlstein. A special man cherished by all wh
 PREMINGER--Mark. On September 12, 2003 at 72. A loving and devoted husband to Ann for 50 years. A proud and beloved father to Robert of Armonk, NY. Mark was a man of great integrity and compassion. He will be remembered as a gentle man and a gentleman. Services 1 PM, Sunday, September 14, C
 RITTER--John. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter John Ritter. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Amy Yasbeck and his children Stella, Jayson, Tyler and Carly. Leo Hausman, Chairman U
 Robert B. Sims, retired executive vice president of the National Geographic Society and president of its magazine group, died on Wednesday in Jackson, Tenn. He was 68 and lived in the nearby town of Alamo. The cause was cancer, National Geographic said. Mr. Sims retired in 2
 Frank L. O'Bannon, a folksy Democrat serving his second term as governor of Indiana, died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was a stroke, which he had suffered last week in a hotel room in Chicago, where he had been attending a conference o
 J. R. Humphreys, an author of fiction and nonfiction who founded a writers' program at Columbia University's School of General Studies, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 85. A native of Mancelona, Mich., Mr. Humphreys returned there and wrote a descriptive nonfict
 APPLEBAUM -- Dr. David. We, at American Red Magen David for Israel, are deeply saddened at the tragic death of Dr. David Applebaum and his daughter, Nava, killed in a terrorist attack in Jerusalem. Dr. Applebaum was an incredible example of compassion, dedicated to saving as many lives as p
 BENNETT BENETSKY--Rudolph. Of Marshfield, MA, formerly of NYC and Camden, ME. September 9, 2003. Retired Broadway music director, vocal coach and orchestra conductor. Beloved husband of Barbara Ragan Bennett. Loving father of Marissa Benetsky of NYC. Also survived by his dog Jake. Donations
 BINKERD--Gordon. Gordon Binkerd's music touched the lives of musicians and listeners for decades. A cherished colleague and mentor to many, he will be missed. We extend our sympathies to his family and friends. Jennifer Bilfield, President Boosey & Hawkes       
 DiGANGI--M. Richard, M.D. On September 11, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Marie for 60 years. Loving father of Linda, Richard, Peter and Roberta. Dear grandfather of Christi, Rebecca, Matthew and Kate. Companion of Barbara Friedman. Richard was a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army Air Corps 
 FRIEDMAN -- Sheldon. A prominent Seventh Avenue dress manufacturer of Fort Lee, NJ, on September 12, 2003. Beloved husband of Marilyn (nee Siegel). Brother of Renee Gold. Devoted uncle of his nieces and nephews. For my best friend, you were the love of my life, and always will be. Now you a
 HABER--Louis. 93 of Brooklyn Heights, NY on September 8, of Parkinson's Disease. Violinist and composer, Lou was a leading studio musician from the early 1960's to the 1990's, playing on recording sessions of well known popular artists. Lou wrote the song, ''Thursday'', for Lew Leslie's Bla
 HARDIN--Ray I. Of Basking Ridge, formerly of Short Hills, NJ, on Tuesday, September 9, 2003. Husband for 64 years of Ruth Jillson Hardin. Father of Ronald, Elizabeth and Douglas Hardin. Grandfather of Alexandra and Damon Horowitz. Memorial Service in Community Congregational Church, 200 Har
 HOUSTON--Frederic P. On September 6, 2003 in Maine, at the age of 93, Frederic P. Houston, a superb lawyer, colleague, mentor and friend passed away. He was admitted to the Bar in 1934 after receiving a degree from Williams College in 1931 and a law degree from Harvard Law School. Fred join
 HUMPHREYS--John R. Died on August 25, 2003, in Santa Fe, NM. Beloved by his colleagues and students at The School of General Studies, Columbia University, and also by his wife and best friend Peggy. His writing program and his own books inspired and influenced hundreds of writers. We will t
 KALIL--Eugene. Of Manhattan died August 5, 2003, at Bayview Health Care Center in Waterford, CT. He was 92 years old. Born in Lawrence, MA in 1911, he was the son of the late Marie Fakoury and Elias Kalil and the brother of the late Alice Abood of Willimantic, CT and Fred Kalil and Jennie K
 MACK--Robert J. Beloved husband of Ilene. Loving father of Linda, John and Diane and loving grandfather of Eleanor and Stephen. His generosity of spirit touched family, friends and all who knew him.       
 WALTERS -- Raymond, Jr., age 91, passed away on August 30, 2003. A retired New York Times Book Review editor and columnist, he was a well-respected American historian. A courtly and gentle man, his family and friends knew him as the ''local Marco Polo'' as he traveled extensively throughout
 Yukio Okutsu, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 55 years after single-handedly wiping out three German machine-gun positions in the battle for an Italian hill during World War II, died Aug. 24 in Hilo, Hawaii. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. On April 7, 19
 Frank L. O'Bannon, a folksy Democrat serving his second term as governor of Indiana, died on Saturday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was a stroke, which he suffered last week in a hotel room in Chicago, where he had been attending a conference on 
 Jules Engel, an innovative animator and educator best known for choreographing dance sequences in the 1940 Disney animated feature ''Fantasia,'' died on Sept. 6 in Simi Valley, Calif. He was 94 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Engel, who was adept in the high-art and mass-cult
 LICHTENBERG -- Alan. Be loved husband of the late Elaine. Devoted father of Richard and Peggy, Dee Dee and Michael, Susan and Neal and Barbara and Matthew. Cherished grandfather of Craig, Jennifer, Jason, Corey, Ashley, Alex, Mark, Adam, Sam, Rachel, Jonathan, Bradley, Gregory, Danielle, Ja
 LICHTER--Lester. On September 13, 2003. Beloved husband to the late Elsa, loving father to Jonathan Lichter and Margareta Shakerdge Cottington, cherished grandfather to JoJo Shakerdge, whom he raised as his daughter, and Daniel F. and David I. Lichter, devoted brother to Ruth Soperstein. A 
 PRICE--Raymond K. Retired partner of the former Wall Street firm Adams and Peck. Died peacefully September 12, at age 95, after a long illness. Since retiring, he had lived in Roseboom, NY. Survived by a son, Raymond K. Price Jr. of NYC, the last Editorial Page Editor of the New York Herald
 STRASSER--Andrew. 84, died on September 11, 2003. He was predeceased by his wife, Florence. Andrew was the revered father of Michael Strasser, Joyce Monaco and Deborah Adler. Beloved grandfather of Christopher and Victoria Monaco, Shane and Collin Adler. Cherished companion of Lois Perlman.
 WEISS--Franklin W. ''Fred.'' Philanthropist and businessman of Longmeadow, MA, founder and chairman of Plastic Packaging Corp, of West Springfield, MA. died Saturday, September 13, 2003. He leaves his wife Ruth (Calish) Weiss, two daughters, Susan (William) Weiss Firestone of Longmeadow, MA
 Byron V. Pepitone, who headed the Selective Service System during the final years of the Vietnam War and the transition to an all-volunteer military, died on Thursday in Port St. Lucie, in southern Florida, where he lived. He was 85. Mr. Pepitone, a retired Air Force colonel, direct
 Howard D. Graves, a retired lieutenant general in the Army, a former superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point and the chancellor of the Texas A&M University System until two weeks ago, died on Saturday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 64. The cau
 BROWN--Paul I. On Saturday, September 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Arline Brown for 50 years. Devoted father of Alan Brown, Jeffrey Brown and Susan Brown Mandel. Dear father-in-law of Linda Foxworthy and Victoria Brown, and Andrew Mandel. Loving Zadie of Sam and Aaron Brown, Isabel and Dani
 DUBLER--Philip, age 83, was a very remarkable person who, in life, gave freely and enjoyed every moment he shared with his devoted wife Shirley. He was an adoring father and special friend to his children Karen and Steven. He was a loving grandfather to Justin and Alex and shared a very spe
 EWY--Bradley J. The staff of The Corkery Group mourn the passing of our colleague and friend, Brad Ewy on September 11, 2003. Deeply committed to his work and to the cause of HIV prevention, Brad was instrumental in building support for national efforts to stop the disease's spread. He was 
 FRANK -- Bernard, Concert Pianist, 91. He began his music studies at the prestigious Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia and performed for the first time at Carnegie Hall when he was nine years old. He toured the world passionately performing the music of his favorite composers. He in
 GILBERT--James F., 92, of Sea Girt, NJ, on Monday, September 15, 2003, at his home surrounded by his three children. Devoted husband of his wife and partner of 59 years of marriage, Eva (nee Vogel) Gilbert, who predeceased him in 1994. Beloved father of James G. Gilbert of Morristown, NJ, J
 KASSOVER--Lawrence Gerald. September 15, 2003, after a long illness. He is survived by wife Patricia, beloved children, Elliot and Rosalie, and grandchildren, Robert, Max, Hannah, Christina, Leslie, and Julia. Burial Wednesday in Palm Beach, FL.       
 LICHTENBERG--Alan. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Alan Lichtenberg, beloved brother of Herbert Lichtenberg, cherished friends of UJA-Federation. Alan was deeply committed to supporting Jewish and humanitarian causes
 LIEBERMAN--George. We were fortunate to have had George Lieberman as our partner for 37 years. George possessed keen intelligence, consummate integrity and a tremendous dedication to our firm and our profession. He was a friend to all of us and we will always remember the sweetness of his s
 McDOUGALL--James Kinloch, died September 13, 2003 of cancer. A Member of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Jim was internationally known for his research on the role of DNA viruses in cancer. All who knew him will miss his kindness, generosity, intelligence, creativity, support of
 OMANOFF--Benjamin. Born September 18th, 1920. Departed September 13th, 2003. Survived by his brother, Samuel Omanoff, nephews, Richard Omanoff, Norman Ochs, Marvin Ochs, and nieces, Judy Sullivan, Julia Omanoff and Ellen Omanoff. Benjamin appeared in several movies including ''Act of Love''
 POPICK--Morris. A great many members of the staff of GVA Williams were lucky enough to have spent many decades in association with Morris Popick. Morris was generous, caring, considerate, honorable, warm and friendly and on top of that very knowledgeable. He could virtually name every tenan
 ROSENTHAL--Kurt, on September 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Doris; father of Kenneth and the late Stuart, six grandchildren, two greatgrandchildren. His photography mirrored the beauty of his life.       
 SEMIATIN -- Jacob. Artist. Born 1915 in Dublin, Ireland. Died August 28, 2003 in Manhattan where he lived most of his life. His watercolors, acrylics and oils were praised at numerous shows in NYC during his lifetime; works hang in museums and private collections around the world. Leaves de
 Abraham Fischler, a diamond trader who returned to Antwerp, Belgium, after World war II to make the city a diamond center once again, died there on Sept. 9. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, said Marcelle Fischler, his daughter-in-law. Mr. Fischler, who owned a major diamon
 Garner Ted Armstrong, a silver-haired television evangelist known for his easy charm and dark message, died on Monday in Tyler, Tex. He was 73. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his son Mark said. Mr. Armstrong was the son of the evangelist Herbert W. Armstrong, who 
 EPSTEIN--Barry. September 16, 2003, after a heroic battle with brain cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife, Diane, adored daughter, Kira, mother, Sylvia and brothers, Stephen & Marc. The funeral will take place on Thursday at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mount Vernon.       
 LESSER--Stephen. Of Westport, CT, aged 50, died peacefully at his home after a long battle with lung cancer. He was the beloved husband of Carol Burton, devoted father of Jackson and Rosalie, adored son of Bert and Mimi Lesser and dear brother of Robin Simon, brother-in-law of David Simon a
 SAUL--Mark W. The Lawrenceville School mourns the passing of Mark W. Saul, Class of '79, an esteemed trustee and loyal Lawrentian. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. Willard Bunn, III '62 President Board of Trustees Elizabeth A. Duffy, Head Master       
 SKOLNIK--David. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of David Skolnik, beloved father of our cherished friend, Rabbi Gerald C. Skolnik. A dedicated spiritual leader in the Queens community, Rabbi Skolnik is a member of the Board of Dire
 WEINER--Lewis. The Society for the History of Czechoslovak Jewry, Inc. mourns the death of its distinguished past president on September 15th, 2003 at the age of 93. The Society was founded by Dr. Kurt Wehle in 1961 to publish accurate historical essays describing Jewish participation in ev
 WOO--Chin-Fu. Beloved husband of Yu Tsung; devoted father of Lily and Rose; sonsin-law, Michael and John; cherished grandfather of Natalie, died on Sunday, September 14, at Fairview Nursing Care Center. He was 93. Born in China in 1910 and became a U.S. citizen in 1970. Earned his B.S. degr
 Dr. David P. Robbins, a mathematician who broke codes and cryptological problems for the government and devised an algebraic formula that became widely recognized in the mathematical world, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 61. The cause was pancreatic cancer, hi
 Dr. Donald L. Dahlsten, an insect biologist who fought California's pest problems with predatory insects as an alternative to chemical pesticides, died on Sept. 3 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 69. The cause was skin cancer, said the University of California at Berkeley, w
 ALBOM--Edwin. The president, directors, clergy and membership of the Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, NY, mourn the loss of Edwin Albom, a distinguished past president of our congregation, and we extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Isabel, and to their children and children-
 GANS--Harold David. Beloved and adored husband of Jeanne for 61 years. Cherished father of Ellen (Bruce) Aldewereld and Barbara (Nat) Russo. Devoted grandfather of Lisa (Thomas) Krommenhoek and Melissa (Andrew) Moss. Dear brother of Felicia Price and the late May Miller. Passed away peacefu
 KATZ--Howard. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute deeply mourn the passing of Howard Katz, beloved father of our dear friend and Trustee, Alan B. Katz. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Howard's wife, Gilda; to his children, Alan
 LERMAN--Dr. Bernard. Manhattan School of Music notes with sadness the passing of Bernard Lerman, brother of our dear friend and Vice Chairman of the School's Board of Trustees, Bella Linden. Music was an important component of his life and a passion he shared with his beloved sister. We ext
 LoGERFO--Paul, MD. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Paul LoGerfo, David V. Habif Professor of Surgery, Co-Director of the New York Thyroid Center and President of the American Association of Endocrine Surgeons. Dr. LoGerfo was a wo
 MASSEY--John Clifford, was born on June 16, 2003, in New York, NY. He died in his sleep on September 14, 2003, in Houston, TX. John Clifford was the light of our lives. He was only with us on this earth for a short time, but his precious little smile will live in our hearts forever. No one 
 SKOLNIK--David. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Solomon Schechter School of Queens are saddened by the loss of David Skolnik, husband and valued partner of Lillian Skolnik. We extend condolences to his son, Rabbi Gerald Skolnik, Robin and their children. Rabbi Skolnik is the Mara 
 Frederick A. Hetzel, who was the director of the University of Pittsburgh Press for 30 years and made it a leading publisher of short fiction and poetry as well as academic books, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 73. The cause was complications from rheumatoid arth
 GANS--Harold David. Beloved and adored husband of Jeanne for 61 years. Cherished father of Ellen (Bruce) Aldewereld and Barbara (Nat) Russo. Devoted grandfather of Lisa (Thomas) Krommenhoek and Melissa (Andrew) Moss. Dear brother of Felicia Price and the late May Miller. Passed away peacefu
 HEIM--Rabbi Leo. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, who after retiring from the active rabbinate, served for ten years at Congregation Beth Yeshurun in Houston. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched
 LOGERFO--Paul. The faculty, students and staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Paul LoGerfo. Dr. LoGerfo was the David V. Habif Professor of Surgery and director of the Endocrine-Thyroid Research Laboratory at Columbia
 MASSEY--John Clifford, was born on June 16, 2003, in New York, NY. He died in his sleep on September 14, 2003, in Houston, TX. John Clifford was the light of our lives. He was only with us on this earth for a short time, but his precious little smile will live in our hearts forever. No one 
 SKOLNIK--David. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Solomon Schechter School of Queens are saddened by the loss of David Skolnik, husband and valued partner of Lillian Skolnik. We extend condolences to his son, Rabbi Gerald Skolnik, Robin and their children. Rabbi Skolnik is the Mara 
 Arthur Kinoy, one of the lawyers for the Chicago Seven and a founder of the Center for Constitutional Rights, long a force in the civil rights movement, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 82. In 1969, Mr. Kinoy joined William M. Kunstler and Leonard I. Weinglass 
 EISINGER--Edward S. Beloved husband of the late Jean, cherished and loving father of daughter Dale and Mike, and son Allan, daughter-in-law Jerri, and grandfather of Jill and son-in-law of Joe, Eric, Josh and greatgrandfather of Jacob, on September 19, 2003 at his home in Miami, Florida. At
 KUPFERMAN -- Theodore Roosevelt, Hon. The Respect for Law Alliance, Inc., mourns the passing of its founding director, Vice President and friend, Judge Ted Kupferman. His wise counsel and wit will be sorely missed. Condolences to Fran and Stephanie. Campbells, Madison and 81 St. Monday, Sep
 MASSEY--John Clifford, was born on June 16, 2003, in New York, NY. He died in his sleep on September 14, 2003, in Houston, TX. John Clifford was the light of our lives. He was only with us on this earth for a short time, but his precious little smile will live in our hearts forever. No one 
 MINKIN--David. The Officers and Board of the Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family mourn with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend and board member, David Minkin. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his family. Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President   
 Theodore R. Kupferman, a former city councilman, Republican congressman from the Silk Stocking district and state appellate judge, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications from urological surgery, his wife, Fran, said yesterday.    
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95.       
 John Lowenthal, who interrupted his career as a law professor to make the 1980 documentary film ''The Trials of Alger Hiss,'' died on Sept. 9 in London. He was 78 and lived in London and Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his daughter, Anne Hermans. Mr. Lowenth
 BREINES--Simon. The Board and staff of the Landmarks Conservancy mourn the passing, but celebrate the life of one of our founding directors. Si was a visionary, a fine architect and an exceptional human being. Our sympathy to his family. John J. Kerr Jr., Chair Peg Breen, President       
 CHRISTMAN -- Henry M., Ph.D. 71, of Manhattan, died on August 18, 2003. Active in both government and publishing, Dr. Christman served in the administrations of Mayor John Lindsay as Director of the City Record, under Governor Hugh Carey as a Member of the Worker's Compensation Board, as we
 EISINGER--Edward S. Beloved husband of the late Jean, cherished and loving father of daughter Dale and Mike, and son Allan, daughter-in-law Jerri, and grandfather of Jill and son-in-law of Joe, Eric, Josh and greatgrandfather of Jacob, on September 19, 2003 at his home in Miami, Florida. At
 GILLETTE--Lee, M.D. Died September 4, 2003. Graduated Columbia College P&S, Flight Surgeon in WWII at Omaha Beach on D-Day. He was a caring and compassionate General Surgeon for 40 years at 850 Park Ave, NYC. He leaves beloved wife Phyllis, three children and five grandchildren. Memorial do
 KINOY--Arthur. The staff, Board of Directors, and friends of the Center for Constitutional Rights are deeply saddened by the loss of Arthur Kinoy, legendary people's lawyer and CCR founder. He deeply touched the lives of all of us. His work as a consummate constitutional and civil rights la
 KUPFERMAN--Theodore R. (Ted). September 19, 2003. Beloved husband of Fran Liner. Devoted father of Ted Jr., Stephanie and Cynthia. Adored grandfather of Alexandra and David. Devoted brother of the late Alice Helm. He will be loved and missed by all who came in contact with him. Service Mond
 MASSEY--John Clifford. On behalf of staff, board and volunteers, our hearts go out to board member Kendall L. Massey, Tom and family on the sudden and tragic loss of their infant son, John Clifford. Though on this earth only three months, he was truly loved, and love never dies. Jed Levine,
 MATTHEWS--John Floyd. Age 84, on September 16, 2003 in England. He retired in 1984 from Brandeis University. He is survived by his wife, Brenda Martin Matthews, a daughter and granddaughter.       
 MINKIN--David. The Board of Trustees, the Administration, Medical Staff and employees of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center mourn the loss of David Minkin, our beloved President Emeritus. Founder, builder, benefactor and friend, he was an extraordinary and spirited individual who, for many ye
 PURSEL--Stewart E., M.D. September 27, 1930-September 18, 2003. Survived by wife Mary Louise, son Tom, daughter Linda, six grandchildren and sister Joan. Graduated Mercersburg Academy '48, Princeton University '52 and Yale Medical School '56. Chief of Thoracic Surgery at four Detroit hospit
 WEISS--Jacob. Of New York City. Born January 1, 1917, died September 18, 2003. Beloved husband of Gertrude for 58 years. Caring father of Diane and Mark. Grandfather to Simone, uncle to Dee and Donald, and brother to the late Evelyn and Max. He will be remembered fondly by those who were cu
 WILLSON--John Paul. Boy Scout, Camp Wabeka boy, skater on Bronxville Lake, acolyte and choir member at Christ Church in Bronxville, died at his home in San Diego, CA, on August 27, 2003. John was born at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, the son of Anita Crumpton Willson and Robert Bellows W
 Theodore R. Kupferman, a former city councilman, Republican congressman from the Silk Stocking district and state appellate judge, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications from urological surgery, his wife, Fran, said yesterday.    
 Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Ronald Reagan and the first fighter pilot to serve as chief of the Air Force, died on Sept. 4 at an assisted-living center in Arlington, Va. He was 75. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Cha
 Henry Harfield, a lawyer specializing in banking who also participated in the release of prisoners taken at the Bay of Pigs, died on Sept. 13 in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Harfield spent his entire career at the New York law firm of Shearman & Sterling, where he helped develop the le
 Marshall Jamison, the first producer for the 1960's satirical review ''That Was the Week That Was'' on American television, died Sept. 2 in Orlando, Fla., where he lived. He was 85. ''That Was the Week That Was,'' often known by the shorthand ''T.W.3,'' came to American television f
 KIESLER--Kenneth M. Died unexpectedly Thursday, September 18, 2003, in Negril, Jamaica, W.I. Ken was a kind and loving brother of Eve Winer, uncle to David and Peter, and great-uncle to Emma, Sophie and Harry Winer. We will miss him terribly, The Great Vavavoom.       
 KUPFERMAN -- Theodore Roosevelt, Hon. The Respect for Law Alliance, Inc., mourns the passing of its founding director, Vice President and friend, Judge Ted Kupferman. His wise counsel and wit will be sorely missed. Condolences to Fran and Stephanie. Campbells, Madison and 81 St. Monday, Sep
 MANN--Dr. Sidney. 75, of Old Tappan, NJ, formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ, on September 20, 2003, following a brief but courageous battle with cancer. An orthodontist for four decades, born in the Bronx and graduated from New York University with a Bachelor of Arts in 1950. He graduated NYU School
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 TAFFEL--Max. 94, died September 19, 2003, at the Yale New Haven Hospital, where he had been a surgeon for 46 years. He was a graduate of the College of the City of New York and the Yale School of Medicine, 1931. He received the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service as the only neurosurg
 WEINSTEIN -- Harold. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Harold Weinstein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Natalie, and to all of the members of his family and friends.       
 Paul S. Conklin, a prolific photojournalist who was the first official photographer for the Peace Corps in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at his home in Port Townsend, Wash. He was 74. The cause was cancer, his wife, Ruth Merryman, said. Mr. Conklin's work appeared in Nationa
 Ralph M. Rourke, director of what many from the Bronx proclaim to be the original and greatest Hall of Fame, died on Aug. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital, according to Bronx Community College, where the hall is located. He was 80. The Hall of Fame for Great Americans, on West
 Simon V. Muzenda, a vice president of Zimbabwe and a longtime aide to President Robert G. Mugabe, died late Saturday, the nation's state-controlled television reported today. The announcement ended weeks of officially denied rumors that Mr. Muzenda, 80, was on hospital life support in Harar
 Bernard Manischewitz, the last member of his family to preside over the worldwide kosher food empire that began when his grandfather opened a small matzo bakery in Cincinnati, died on Saturday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 89. Mr. Manischewitz was president of the B. Manischewi
 The jazz tenor saxophonist Frank Lowe, who first appeared in the wave of New York free-jazz players influenced by John Coltrane and then went on to explore an earlier jazz and rhythm-and-blues feeling, died last Friday in St. Clare's hospital in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was c
 John Michael Bailey, the former chief state's attorney and a scion of one of Connecticut's most famous and powerful political families, died today at his home in West Hartford. He was 59. Mr. Bailey, Connecticut's longest-serving chief state's attorney at nine years, resigned after 
 BAILEY--John M. Former Chief State's Attorney for the State of Connecticut. Husband of Elizabeth D. Bailey. Passed away peacefully at home Monday, September 22nd. Survivors include his two sons, John and Brian, his three sisters, Barbara, Louise and Judith. Friends may call at Ahern Funeral
 BEDER--Abner. Adored husband of Eileen, father, grandfather, brother-in-law, uncle and friend. He was a retired Commander USN, businessman, humorist and a most special person. His legacy of love will live on in his four children Rina and Irving, Michael and Leslie and the five grandchildren
 BLANK--Charles A. Esquire. September 20, 2003. Husband of Kathleen M. MacElroy Blank, father of Jeanne M. Stowe, Kathleen M. Blank-Cicala, Mary Kaye B. Stewart, Charles A., Peter J., Christopher P. and Laurence A. Blank; brother of Arthur J. Jr. and Marie Blank, Lola Sullivan, Paula Fearn, 
 EFLAND--Howard W. January 3rd, 1933-September 21, 2003. Beloved husband of Alice (nee Friedman), devoted and adoring father of Stephen, Michael and Jordana. Loving Pop Pop of Jessica and Matthew Efland. Adored brother of Margi and Gerry Friedman and Phyllis Alpert. Dear uncle of Glenn and J
 FELDMAN -- David. Our heartfelt sympathy for Helaine & Chet on the sudden & tragic loss of their beloved son David. Devoted brother of Jeffrey and sister-in-law Suzanne. Adoring uncle of Zachary, Ryan and Emily. We shall all miss him. Helen and Larry Silberman       
 GIBBONS--Daniel J. Son of the late Daniel and Ida Gibbons. Lifelong resident of Mt. Vernon. Daniel was an avid reader and loved to travel. He served in the Army during World War II. Reposing at Murray-Weigel Hall, 515 East Fordham Rd., Bronx, NY, on Wednesday, September 24, 10-11 AM. Mass o
 HOELLERING--Michael F. The Board and staff of the American Arbitration Association are deeply saddened by the passing of Michael F. Hoellering, longtime General Counsel of the Association and recognized international leader in the field of arbitration and mediation. Mr. Hoellering devoted m
 KATZ--Rose. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rose Katz, beloved mother of Saul B. Katz, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Deeply committed to supporting Jewish and humanitarian causes, Saul exemplifies his mother's love of Ju
 KAY--Sid. Died on September 18 in New York Hospital. Leaving behind the love of a family that will miss him deeply: his adored and adoring wife of 62 years, Rose; siblings Estelle, Jack, Mel, Herbert, Gloria and Alvin. Nieces, nephews, great nieces and great-nephews. Mr. Kay, who founded Mi
 KIRSTEIN--Sidney. On September 20, 2003. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father of Larry and his wife Jane. Cherished grandfather and great grandfather. Funeral service Wednesday, 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. Interment to follow at Beth David Cemetery.     
 KRISER--Sidney P. On September 22, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Loving father of Judy Feldstein. Dear father-in-law of Richard Feldstein. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Christopher Rile and Julie and Mark Kessler. Adoring greatgrandfather of Jessica, Nicholas, Lily and Ry
 KUPFERMAN--Theodore R. Judge Kupferman, rest in peace. You had a wonderful and honest life and I learned so much from you. May you rest in heaven, too. Since you left the appellate division, everything in New York City and New York State is very disappointing. And there are very few judges 
 LERNER--James, 92. Husband of Gert. Father of Dick and Betty. Grandfather and great-grandfather. His light will shine forever within us. Services 11 AM Wednesday, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel 91St/Amsterdam Ave.       
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 RYAN--John F. II, 71, died peacefully on September 20, 2003 at home in Barnegat, NJ. Former Deputy Mayor of Barnegat, he was extremely active in the Ocean County Democratic Committee. Survived by Dorothy, his wife of 50 years, his daughter Lisa, sons Robert, John F. III, and Steven, all of 
 David Minkin, a successful New York-area real estate developer who was also president emeritus of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn, died on Friday. He was 99 and lived in Queens and in Palm Beach, Fla. He died at J.F.K. Medical Center in Palm Beach County. In an 
 Hugo Young, a leading columnist, political author and chairman of the Scott Trust, which owns The Guardian and The Observer, died Monday in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. In a 30-year career of publishing his opinions, he established himself as an 
 Joseph M. Magliochetti, the chairman and chief executive of the Dana Corporation, a big auto parts company, died here Monday night. He was 61. The cause was complications from pancreatitis, the company, which is based in Toledo, Ohio, said in a statement. Mr. Magliochetti was hospit
 FRANKEL--Arthur. Beloved husband of Severine (nee Kohn). Stepfather of Elisabeth Szegho. Uncle of Roy Rosenstein, Jane Shivers, Robert and Peter Woog. Passed away peacefully at home on Monday, September 22, 2003. He will be much missed.       
 GIPS--William M. Born August 22, 1919 in NYC. Died September 23, 2003 in Scarsdale, NY. Proud graduate of Baruch College, CCNY. Major in Finance Corps WWII. Master Mason King SolomonBeethoven Lodge. Retired partner Deloitte & Touche. Officer New York State Society of CPAs. Yankees fan. Tell
 KRISER--Sidney P. On September 22, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Loving father of Judy Feldstein. Dear father-in-law of Richard Feldstein. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Christopher Rile and Julie and Mark Kessler. Adoring greatgrandfather of Jessica, Nicholas, Lily and Ry
 KUPFERMAN--Theodore R. The Board of Directors and staff of the YMCA of Greater New York mourn the passing of our dear friend and life member Judge Theodore Kupferman. He will be remembered as a dedicated and faithful leader and an exceptionally fine human being. We extend our sincere condol
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 O'BRIEN--James M. of Rockville Centre, NY, on September 22, 2003. Beloved husband of Dolores Rose. Loving father of Elizabeth (Richard) Nyachiro, Jeannemarie (Yves Achille) Casimir, and Kathryn (John) Bracciante. Dear grandfather of Isabelle and Yves Casimir. Also survived by his brother Ge
 OLDEN--Marc. Novelist, on September 5 in New York City. A highly regarded crime writer with 40 published books, his book ''Poe Must Die'' is considered the definitive novel on Edgar Allan Poe. With advanced degree black belts in Japanese Karate and Aikido, he coached and mentored many membe
 RYAN--John F. II, 71, died peacefully on September 20, 2003 at home in Barnegat, NJ. Former Deputy Mayor of Barnegat, he was extremely active in the Ocean County Democratic Committee. Survived by Dorothy, his wife of 50 years, his daughter Lisa, sons Robert, John F. III, and Steven, all of 
 TERRY -- James Hendrick, Jr., M.D. Age 76. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Passed away suddenly, at home, on September 22, 2003. He was the dear husband of Virginia (Ginny), loving father of Jane, James III, Emily and Karen, beloved grandfather of seven, devoted brother of Anthony and Stephen of Tucson, 
 WINER--James Patrick Benjamin. Age 65. Born and raised in New York City. Architect and City Planner in Philadelphia. A valiant soldier in his fight against Multiple Sclerosis. Loving father of Alison and Sarah. Proud grandfather of Zoe, Sammy, Isabel, Olivia and Benjamin.       
 Simcha Dinitz, the Israeli ambassador to the United States during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, who played a crucial but disputed role in arranging an airlift of American military supplies to Israel, died yesterday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, The 
 Herb Gardner, the award-winning playwright whose credits include ''A Thousand Clowns'' and ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' died last night at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was lung disease, said his wife, Barbara C. Sproul. Throughout his career, 
 ALPER--Arthur, 79, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Oceanside, N.Y. Survived by his beloved wife Audrey, loving children Stuart (Wendy), Lee (Elyse), Marc (Wendy), adored grandfather to Lindsay, Jared, Kyra, Lexi, Adam and Andrew. Former president of the Lily Lake Cheese Company. He will fore
 DINITZ--Simcha. The Governors, Officers, Faculty and Students of the Schechter Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, Ambassador Simcha Dinitz, a distinguished and committed member of the Schechter Institute's Board of Governors. We rem
 GREEN--Morton. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date for Dr. Morton Green, 85, who died at his home on September 23. Dr. Green was born in Brooklyn, NY on October 25, 1917 to Leon and Nessa (Lackow) Green. He graduated from PS 153 and Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn. He wa
 GROSS--Gerard S. Age 72. Beloved husband of Mary, sonin-law of Clara DiGrigoli, brother of Elsie (Irv) Farber, uncle and great uncle. He was loved. Service Friday 11:15AM at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, N.Y.       
 KRISER--Sidney P. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Sidney Kriser, a longtime friend and supporter. Along with his late brother Leonard, Sidney was the recipient of ADL's Haym Solomon Award for their generous support of the League. We extend our sincere condolences to his daug
 MILLER--Peter. Of New York City on September 24. He was the beloved husband of Rhoda Miller and devoted father to Justin and Dana Miller. Peter Miller was the former Chief Tax Counsel for W.R. Grace, a past President of the NY State Bar Association's Tax Section. Former consultant to Govern
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 NEEDLE -- Irving. Beloved father of Laura and Murray Cantor and Sol and Maxine Needle. Cherished grandfather of Michelle and Jodi Needle, Cheryl Blumberg and Dr. Alan Cantor. Services are today 11:30 at the Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, NY (corner of Avenue V). '
 Dr. Paul LoGerfo, a surgeon who helped advance the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disease, died on Sept. 16 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his brother Frank. Dr. LoGerfo, who lived in Manhattan, was best known f
 Simon Breines, a New York City architect who was the first president of the Landmarks Conservancy of New York and the architect member of the Art Commission of New York City, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97. Mr. Breines was a partner in the New York City-ba
 Edward W. Said, a polymath scholar and literary critic at Columbia University who was the most prominent advocate in the United States of the cause of Palestinian independence, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, which Dr. Said had been battling since 
 Franco Modigliani, who received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1985 for his pathbreaking explanations of how people save and the role of debt in determining the value of corporations, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. He died in his sleep, th
 Herb Gardner, whose 1962 play ''A Thousand Clowns'' was the first of a string of Broadway successes in which his eccentric characters conveyed the whimsical charm and dark truths that grew out of the author's youth in New York, died on Wednesday at home in Manhattan. He was 68. The 
 DELLA FEMINA--Michael. The Board and staff of Brooklyn Public Library Foundation extend condolences to our Trustee, Jerry Della Femina, on the loss of his father. Howard Smith, Chairman Evan Kingsley, President Ginnie Cooper, Exec Dir, BPL       
 DINITZ--Simcha. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the profound loss of Simcha Dinitz, former vice president of The Hebrew University, and senior fellow and chairman of its Leonard Davis Institute of International Relations. We extend our 
 GARDNER--Herb. The Writers Guild of America, East mourns the passing of its distinguished member Herb Gardner. He received the WGA Award for Best Screenplay for ''A Thousand Clowns'' in 1966 and was the recipient of the Writers Guild of America, East's Lifetime Achievement Award in 2000. Hi
 HENLINE--Darrell. Cabaret and its music have lost one of their greatest champions with the passing of Darrell Henline, founder, publisher and editor-in-chief of Cabaret Scenes magazine. We will miss his passion for the highest standards of the art, and his warm devotion to cabaret and its c
 HIRSCHBERG--Robert S. On September 25. Son of the late Samuel and Betty. Survived by his sister, Judith (Seymour) Liss. His niece and nephew Jan Liss (Jim Coddington) and Jonathan (Ann) Liss. Great-nephew Jack Wolfe Liss. Friend to so many. He is also fondly remembered by Marian Gibson, mis
 KESSLER--Ira. Architect. On September 22, 2003 in Rockville, MD. He is survived by Joyce, his beloved wife of fifty-nine years; his children Richard, Jane, and Amy; grandchildren Sarah, William, Dylan, Nicholas, Zachary and Oliver; daughter-in-law Doris; sons-in-law Peter and David; and sis
 LOEFFLER--Robert Philip. On September 24, 2003. Loving husband of Bella, adoring father of Ellen and Marvin, proud grandfather of Jacob, Andrew and Kathleen. Robert was a gentleman and a gentle man. His quiet, honest presence will be sorely missed. A Memorial Service will be held on Monday 
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 SAID--Edward W. Age 67, of Jerusalem, Palestine. A brilliant scholar, teacher, musician, beloved husband, father, brother and friend. Professor Said is survived by his wife Mariam, his children Najla and Wadie, his daughter-in-law Jennifer, and his sisters Rosemary Zahlan, Jean Makdisi, Joy
 SILVER--Irving, M.D. Beloved doctor to his Brooklyn patients for over 50 years. Beloved husband of Selma and the late Hannah, loving father of Jane Schaiman (David) and the late Alan Silver (Sandy), caring grandfather of Michael, Karen, Jodi and Wendy & great-grandfather of Melissa and Grif
 ZUCKERMAN -- Max. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our distinguished member Mr. Joseph Zuckerman. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 Bennett Lenson Robinson, a designer of annual reports for companies like H. J. Heinz, died on Wednesday while on vacation in Vienna. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Robinson died of injuries from a traffic accident, his family said. Mr. Robinson began his career in pro
 George Plimpton, the New York aristocrat and literary journalist whose career was a happy lifelong competition between scholarly pursuits and madcap attempts -- chronicled in self-deprecating prose -- to try his hand at glamorous jobs for which he was invariably unsuited, died yesterday at 
 GARDNER--Herb. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Herb Gardner. Mr. Gardner was an Active and dedicated member of the Guild. Our deepest sympathy to his family. John Weidman, President The Dramatists Guild of America       
 HILL -- Errol Gaston, re nowned scholar, academic, theater historian, playwright and director, died of cancer on September 15, at the age of 82 at his home in Hanover, NH. The John D. Willard Professor of Drama and Oratory, Emeritus, at Dartmouth College, Hill spent 35 years at the College 
 JOHNSTON--John Martin. On September 26, 2003 at age 80. Beloved husband of Suzanne Johnston. Father of Nancy Elting, John Wm. Johnston, Peter Kelly Johnston, Philip Connelly Johnston and Jacqueline Hoffman. Grandfather of seven. Funeral services at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Ave., 
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 MODIGLIANI--Franco. The administration, advisors, scholars and staff of The Levy Economics Institute of Bard College mourn the passing of Franco Modigliani, whose unparalleled brilliance in economic theory will forever work to advance and enrich the discipline. The Levy Institute was privil
 PLIMPTON--George Ames. On September 26, 2003. The family of George Plimpton announces with sadness his passing. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The Paris Review Foundation, 541 East 72nd St, NY, NY 10021. PLIMPTON--G
 ROSENTHAL--Herbert Ira. On September 26, 2003 in Palm Beach, FL, age 92. Beloved husband of Shirley Kate for 63 years. Devoted father of Judith (deceased) and Audrey Goodman (Sheldon). Loving grandfather of Victoria (Jonas). He led a successful and exciting life as an executive of MCA. His 
 SAID--Edward W. Age 67, of Jerusalem, Palestine. A brilliant scholar, teacher, musician, beloved husband, father, brother and friend. Professor Said is survived by his wife Mariam, his children Najla and Wadie, his daughter-in-law Jennifer, and his sisters Rosemary Zahlan, Jean Makdisi, Joy
 Robert Palmer, a debonair English singer who channeled his fondness for American rock and soul into a string of hits in the 1970's and 80's, died yesterday in Paris. He was 54 and had resided in Switzerland. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Elizabeth Freund. He was 
 Donald O'Connor, the jaunty, versatile dancer, singer and actor whose acrobatic ''Make 'Em Laugh'' solo in ''Singin' in the Rain'' is considered one of Hollywood's finest dance moments, died yesterday. He was 78. Mr. O'Connor, who had been in failing health for some time, died at th
 John Orrell, a historian whose intellectual detective work laid the groundwork for the 1997 re-creation of Shakespeare's original Globe Theater, died on Sept. 16 in Edmonton, Alberta. He was 68 and lived in Edmonton. The cause was melanoma, his wife, Wendy, said. The details
 BAUER--Dr. Stanley. On September 26, 2003. Brilliant physician, scholar, teacher, beloved husband, father, grandfather, colleague and friend. Survived by his wife Carolyn; children, Barbara and Leonard Gray; Susan and Seth Schwinger; Donna and David Zimble, step-children, Katie and Darryl S
 DURANTE--Vincent A., 61, on September 22. Born in Manhattan, resident of Bay Terrace, formerly of Brooklyn. Mr. Durante was employed at the New York Times as a payroll supervisor. He attended Pace University, was a gourmet cook, amateur horticulturist and gardener. He served in the Army Nat
 FELDMAN--Joseph. Beloved husband of Myrna. Devoted father of Bonnie, Ilene and Jeffrey. Loving brother of Dorothy Vella and Tillie Furberg. Services on Monday, 12:15PM ''Sinai Chapels'', 16205 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. FELDMAN -- Joseph. 1925-2003. The Officers, 
 GARDNER -- Herb. Todd Haimes, the Board of Directors, and staff of Roundabout Theatre Company deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Herb Gardner. He will live on forever in his extraordinary plays.       
 HENNEBRY -- Dermot Wil liam. Beloved husband of Mary Lou. Father of Claudette. Grandfather of Alex and Kerry. We will always remember his values, love of life, and passion for reading.       
 HETZLER--Peter. Formerly of Rumson, NJ on September 23. Beloved by his late wife Sally (Littell), his children Peter (Christine), Elizabeth (Andrew McBrian) and Jennifer, his grandchildren Sarah Frances, Peter, Stephanie and William, and his devoted companion, Nancy. He will be dearly misse
 HIRSCHBERG--Robert S. On September 25. Son of the late Samuel and Betty. Survived by his sister, Judith (Seymour) Liss. His niece and nephew Jan Liss (Jim Coddington) and Jonathan (Ann) Liss. Great-nephew Jack Wolfe Liss. Friend to so many. He is also fondly remembered by Marian Gibson, mis
 INLENDER -- Avraham, 70. Artist, playright, director, on July 24. He is survived by his wife, Rosina Fernhoff, daughters, Tracy Fulop and Willa Inlender, and grandsons, Ian Passman and Daniel Fulop.       
 JOHNSON--Michael Patrick, 51, died peacefully at his home in Kirkland, Washington on September 19, 2003. Over seven years earlier, Michael was diagnosed with brain cancer. Through a powerful intellect and sheer perseverance, reinforced by the loyalty of his family and friends, Michael battl
 JOHNSTON--John Martin. On September 26, 2003 at age 80. Beloved husband of Suzanne Johnston. Father of Nancy Elting, John Wm. Johnston, Peter Kelly Johnston, Philip Connelly Johnston and Jacqueline Hoffman. Grandfather of seven. Funeral services at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Ave., 
 LOEFFLER--Robert Philip. On September 24, 2003. Loving husband of Bella, adoring father of Ellen and Marvin, proud grandfather of Jacob, Andrew and Kathleen. Robert was a gentleman and a gentle man. His quiet, honest presence will be sorely missed. A Memorial Service will be held on Monday 
 MEYER--Henry von L. Jr., 94, of Wainscott, NY, died peacefully at home on September 22nd. The son of Laura Hard and Henry von L. Meyer, he was born in Lawrence, NY, in 1909. The family moved to Suffern, NY, where they established Cobblestone Farm. It was to be his home for many years and wh
 MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community 
 MINTZ--Abraham (Abe), 90, of Aventura, FL, formerly of Westbury, NY, on September 25, 2003. Survived by wife of 60 years, Gloria, devoted daughters, Sandra and Gene Sharkey and Carla and Ron Surdin. Will be especially missed by his beloved grandchildren, Marisa, Brooke, Jared and Matthew.  
 NAVARRETE -- Ignacio, 92, died at home in Oakland, CA. Born in Havana, Cuba, formerly of Staten Island and Greenwich Village. Studied at Columbia University School of Architecture. Worked for the Office of Franciscan Art and Architecture, and for the Port Authority. A life centered on his f
 NORCOTT--Gerald F., on September 19, 2003. Jerry, a recently retired Partner in the public accounting firm KPMG, is survived by his companion, Cindy Tarantino, his sons Thomas and James and their mother, Maryann Norcott. Friends are welcome to join in a celebration of Jerry's life at 4PM on
 PLIMPTON--George Ames. On September 26, 2003. The family of George Plimpton announces with sadness his passing. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The Paris Review Foundation, 541 East 72nd St, NY, NY 10021. PLIMPTON --
 PURSEL--Stewart E., M.D. September 27, 1930-September 18, 2003. Survived by wife Mary Louise, son Tom, daughter Linda, six grandchildren and sister Joan. Graduated Mercersburg Academy '48, Princeton University '52 and Yale Medical School '56. Chief of Thoracic Surgery at four Detroit hospit
 ROBINSON--Bennett Lenson. One of the countries most influential annual report designers died on Wednesday, September 24th from injuries sustained in a traffic accident. He was 74 and had been vacationing in Vienna, Austria. Robinson is survived by his wife, Sondra Kurtin Robinson, sons Josh
 ROSENTHAL--Herbert Ira. On September 26, 2003 in Palm Beach, FL, age 92. Beloved husband of Shirley Kate for 63 years. Devoted father of Judith (deceased) and Audrey Goodman (Sheldon). Loving grandfather of Victoria (Jonas). He led a successful and exciting life as an executive of MCA. His 
 SAID--Edward W. Age 67, of Jerusalem, Palestine. A brilliant scholar, teacher, musician, beloved husband, father, brother and friend. Professor Said is survived by his wife Mariam, his children Najla and Wadie, his daughter-in-law Jennifer, and his sisters Rosemary Zahlan, Jean Makdisi, Joy
 WARD--Samuel Stuart. On September 23, 2003. Sam died peacefully at home following an accident in a taxicab. The son of the late Jennifer Ward and James Ward and the brother of Lea Ward, Sam would have been 41 years old on October 6. His life was filled with love, concern and care for others
 ZUCKERBROD -- Milton, of Great Neck, NY, passed away on Friday, September 19, 2003, in his 83rd year. Devoted husband to Ann; loving father to Edward; father-in-law to Linda, and adoring grandfather to Jonathan. Buried at Knollwood Park Cemetery, Queens, NY.       
 Donald O'Connor, the jaunty, versatile dancer, singer and actor whose acrobatic ''Make 'Em Laugh'' solo in ''Singin' in the Rain'' is considered one of Hollywood's finest dance moments, died Saturday. He was 78. Mr. O'Connor, who had been in failing health for some time, died at the
 Elia Kazan, the immigrant child of a Greek rug merchant who became one of the most honored and influential directors in Broadway and Hollywood history, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Kazan's achievements in theater and cinema helped define the American exper
 Sir Ian Hunter, a British impresario and organizer of arts festivals who played a major role in shaping the annual Edinburgh Festival, died on Sept. 5 at his home in West Sussex, England. He was 84. As managing director and later as president of Harold Holt (now Askonas Holt), a Bri
 GOLDBERG--Allan. 68, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Muttontown, NY, passed away September 26, 2003. Cofounder of Generation Mills, Inc. Beloved husband of Judith. Devoted father of Andrew and his wife Michelle and of Mitchell and his wife Judy. Stepfather to David, Andrea and Wendy. Adoring
 POWER--Catherine C. (nee Clark). Of Bellerose Village and Southold, on September 28, 2003. Loving wife of Austin. Beloved mother of Austin III and his wife Pam, Brian and his wife Shannon and Kevin. Dear grandmother of Rebecca, Ryan, Mary Grace & Jack. Reposing Dalton Funeral Home, 125 Hill
 ROBINSON--Bennett Lenson. One of the countries most influential annual report designers died on Wednesday, September 24th from injuries sustained in a traffic accident. He was 74 and had been vacationing in Vienna, Austria. Robinson is survived by his wife, Sondra Kurtin Robinson, sons Josh
 WINGER--Ralph O. A retired Senior Tax Partner in the New York law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, died Thursday, September 25, 2003 of an apparent heart attack. He was 84 years old. He was born in Keokuk, IA, and graduated from the State University of Iowa in 1940 (B.A. magna cum laude
 Benjamin Shimberg, an expert on how occupational testing, licensing and certifying can protect the public, died on Wednesday in Trenton. He was 85 and lived in Lawrenceville, N.J. He died as a result of a stroke he suffered on Sept. 18, his family said. Dr. Shimberg, a forme
 Marshall N. Rosenbluth, a pioneer in unleashing and taming nuclear fusion, the force that powers the sun and stars, died on Sunday in San Diego. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the University of California at San Diego, where Dr. Rosenbluth had taught.      
 FIRESTEIN -- Allan. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Gloria, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 GLICK--Howard Samuel. On September 28, 2003, age 75, of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of Norwich, CT. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Michael (Sharon) and Andrea (Seth) and the late Karol. Loving Papa of Alex and Kayla Glick and Sophia and Evan Lieberman. Cherished brother of the la
 HACK--Henry, died on Friday, September 19, 2003, after a long illness, at La Vida Llena Senior Residence in Albuquerque, NM. He was 95. He is survived by his wife of 69 years, Dorothy; his son, Alan, and daughter-in-law, Karen of Los Alamos, NM; granddaughter Samantha Hack of Brooklyn, NY; 
 KAZAN--Elia. He was a ''swell'' guy. Our love to the family. Carter and Howard Berg       
 LOBENFELD--Sam. On September 27th, 2003 at the age of 89 in the home of his daughter in Brooklyn, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Ruth Rifkin Lobenfeld. He is survived by his daughter Frann Giambanco and his son Eric Lobenfeld, their spouses Glenn and Trish, grandchildren Jessica and her h
 MODIGLIANI -- Franco. On September 25, 2003. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University mourn the loss of Franco Modigliani, an alumnus of, and former Professor at the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science. The winner of the 1985 Nobel Prize for Economics for his th
 PLIMPTON--George. For 30 of New York Philomusica's 32 years George provided consisently good-natured and inspired leadership. We shall carry his legacy, informed by that special quality of inquiry he brought in his quest for perfection in all that he touched, into the future. On behalf of t
 SCHNIRRING -- William, on September 27, 2003, age 65, of Westport, CT. Born in NYC on May 18, 1938 to Fredrick William and Alice Mary Schnirring, Bill grew up in Larchmont, NY. Graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, 1956 and NYU, 1960. Served in US Coast Guard, honorably discharged 1964. B
 SEINFELD--Robert H. died September 28, at his residence after a long illness. Adored husband of Judy, dear father of Marc, Lori (Paul) and Jill (Jeff), loving step-father of Steven and Jeffrey Greenberg, precious grandfather of Ginger, Jackson and Gerard and cherished brother and uncle of t
 WINGER--Ralph O. A retired Senior Tax Partner in the New York law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, died Thursday, September 25, 2003 of an apparent heart attack. He was 84 years old. He was born in Keokuk, IA, and graduated from the State University of Iowa in 1940 (B.A. magna cum laude
 YELLIN--Helen. On September 27, 2003. Beloved wife of Norman. Loving mother of Karen (Alan) Senter, Joel (Laura), Paul (Susan). Dear sister of Raymond (Arline) Grant. Loving grandmother and great - grandmother. Funeral Tuesday, 12:15, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162 - 05 Horace Harding Expressway, F
 The Rev. Joseph T. Cahill, who as president of St. John's University for 24 years saw it grow into the largest Catholic university in the United States, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Cape May, N.J. He died at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan; the cause
 William C. Morris, who as vice president and director of library promotion at HarperCollins Children's Books is often credited with developing the modern marketing of children's books, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said Catherine Balkin, n
