 Dr. Carey Hoyt Bostian, a geneticist who taught at North Carolina State University for 37 years and served as its chancellor for another 6, died on April 22 at his retirement home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 93. He joined the faculty in 1930 as an assistant professor of zoology and 
 Damaso Seda, the first Hispanic transit worker to lead the men and women who keep New York City's buses and subways up and running, died Tuesday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. According to the Transport Workers Union of Ameri
 Newell Brown, a labor official in the Eisenhower administration and an aide to Gov. Sherman Adams of New Hampshire before that, died on April 14 at his home in Keene, N.H. He was 82 and had moved there from Dublin, N.H., weeks ago. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family 
 BORKOWSKI-Charles P., Jr. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Kathleen (nee Clauss). Dear father of Laura and Douglas. Devoted son of Charles P. Borkowski, M.D. Loving brother of Barbara Pringle, Alicia Sumilas and Mary Virginia Borkowski. Funeral service Tuesday, May 2nd at The Shrine of
 de ROTHSCHILD-Raphael. On April 22nd, 2000 at age 23 in New York. Adored son of Nili and Nathaniel de Rothschild, and adored brother of Esther de Rothschild. The most kind, thoughtful, intelligent, charming, compassionate human being that ever was, he blessed his parents, his sister and his
 FRANKEL-Arthur N., M.D. In his 95th year. Devoted husband of Kay. Dear brother of Thelma Weiner and the late Harold O.N. Frankel. Funeral private.       
 GOLDBERG-Abraham. Of Brooklyn, New York, on April 29 at 95 years, after a joyful and inspirational life. Devoted husband of the late Rose. Cherished father of Muriel (Micki) Ginsberg. Dear father-in-law of Jack. Honored grandfather of Andrew (Marnie) and Peter. Loving brother of Danny and o
 KOSSOFF-Burton ''Buddy.'' On April 29, 2000, at age 76 years. Beloved and cherished husband of Phyllis L. Kossoff, devoted and caring father of Mitchell and Pamela Kossoff and the late Stephanie Lynn Kossoff. Adored grandfather of Joshua, Alec, Noah and Jeremy. Treasured brother of Ira and 
 LEVINE-Bernard. 86. On April 29, 2000. Survived by his devoted wife Geri. Cherished father of Audrey, Nina (Paul), Shari (Chris), Fran (Ed), Vicki (Roger). Adored by his grandchildren Aliza, Jason, Simone, Spencer, Samantha, Gabrielle, and David. Services 11:45 AM, Tuesday, May 2, at ''The 
 OPPENHEIM-Henry. On April 29. Father of Steven and Richard; grandfather of Donald, Allyson, Laura, Michael and Daniel. Founder of Oppenheim, Appel, Dixon and Co. Service Monday, 1 PM, ''Riverside Memorial Chapel,'' 21 West Broad St., Mt. Vernon, NY. OPPENHEIM-Henry. The Board of Gov
 SAIVETZ-Richard. Suddenly on Friday, April 28, of Newton, MA. Husband of Carol (Richman). Father of Aliza Saivetz of Newton, MA and Michael Saivetz of New York City. Son of Bradford and Thelma ''Temi'' (Steir) Saivetz of Quincy, MA. Brother of Ruthellen and Dr. Marc Rubin of Yardley, PA. So
 SHAPIRO-Marvin S. Passed away Saturday, April 29, 2000. Mr. Shapiro is survived by his wife Rita of Coral Springs, FL, sons Dr. Mitchell Shapiro of Miramar, Kenneth of Coral Springs, Ronald (Susan) of Coral Springs and five grandchildren, Jason, April, Laura, Michael and Brandon. Services M
 SIRACUSA-Ernest V. Career diplomat, died in Austin, Texas, on April 26, 2000. He was Adlai Stevenson's Latin American Advisor to the United Nations and Ambassador to Bolivia and Uruguay. For information, contact Weed-CorleyFish Funeral Home, 3125 North Lamar, Austin, Texas 78705. 512452-881
 Phillip W. Katz, the inventor of file-compression software used in computers around the world, died on April 14 in a hotel room in Milwaukee. He was 37. The cause was complications from alcoholism, according to a report from the Milwaukee medical examiner's office. Mr. Katz'
 William Francis Gallagher, a retired president of the American Foundation for the Blind, died on April 19 at his home in Webster, Mass., south of Worcester. He was 77 and had long been ill, said the foundation, based in Manhattan, where Mr. Gallagher formerly lived on the Upper East Side.  
 David Mahoney, a business leader who left behind the world of Good Humor, Canada Dry and Avis and threw himself behind a decidedly less conventional marketing campaign, promoting research into the brain, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was heart d
 BRITTON-Wright, age 74, died of pancreatic cancer, on Saturday, April 29, 2000. He bravely battled his formidable foe for six months, and the courage and dignity he brought to his last days reflected the values that he embodied throughout his extraordinary life. He received his Ph.D. in mar
 CENERINO-Bernardo (Ben). Of Monmouth Beach, NJ, died Saturday, suddenly at home. He was a school teacher for the New York City School System for 24 years before retiring in 1996. He was an AIDS counselor and a community activist. Born in Princeton, NJ, he had lived in NYC before coming to M
 de ROTHSCHILD-Raphael. On April 22nd, 2000 at age 23 in New York. Adored son of Nili and Nathaniel de Rothschild, and adored brother of Esther de Rothschild. The most kind, thoughtful, intelligent, charming, compassionate human being that ever was, he blessed his parents, his sister and his
 FREID-Dr. Jacob. The Jewish Braille Institute of America records with sorrow the passing of our Executive Director Emeritus whose professional leadership guided the Institute for more than a quarter of a century until his retirement in 1979. In the ensuing years, he remained as a deeply res
 IVRY-David, 75. Storrs, Connecticut died April 30. Beloved husband of Barbara for 52 years. Loving father of Robert Ivry and Patricia, ; Judith Ivry and Phillip Block, William Ivry and Joan Gallini, Richard Ivry and Ann Lacey, Devoted grandfather of Elizabeth, Greg, Seth, Asa, Anina, Henry,
 LEVINE-Bernard. 86. On April 29, 2000. Survived by his devoted wife Geri. Cherished father of Audrey, Nina (Paul), Shari (Chris), Fran (Ed), Vicki (Roger). Adored by his grandchildren Aliza, Jason, Simone, Spencer, Samantha, Gabrielle, and David. Services 11:45 AM, Tuesday, May 2, at ''The 
 LEVITT-Marvin F. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Marvin F. Levitt, and send condolences to his family.       
 MAHONEY-David. It is with a painful sense of loss that the trustees, officers and staff of the Eleanor Naylor Dana Charitable Trust record the untimely death on Monday, May 1st, of the Trust's Chairman, David Mahoney. His singular experience as one of the country's most experienced foundati
 MAHONEY-David J. The faculty and staff of Harvard Medical School mourn the loss of David Mahoney, a generous benefactor and champion of neuroscience research who tirelessly sought to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness. With his wife Hildegarde, they formed the Harvard Mahon
 MARK-Alan. On April 30, 2000. He leaves behind a devoted family, his wife Phyllis, children Pamela and Ira, and grandchildren Eli and Jesse. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday, 11:30AM. Interment Beth David Cemetery.       
 MONEYHAM-Russell. Brooklyn Heights, age 70, born Asheville, N.C. One of the most giving people to ever grace the human race has left the earth. Russ Moneyham who gave much more to all who knew him than he ever received has passed away. He loved small people. The people who could not fend fo
 MOSSACK-Robert David, D.D.S. On April 30th, at age 46. Beloved husband of Marcia. Devoted father of Spencer and Jacey. Dear son of Ina & the late Murray. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street today Tuesday at 1:30PM. Interment Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, N.Y. Cont
 OPPENHEIM-Henry. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Henry Oppenheim, a dear friend of the Jewish community and beloved father of Steven, a valued leader and distinguished member of our Board of Directors. We extend our sincerest condolenc
 RYDER-Irving. Died May 1 at age 78. Survived by the love of his life, his longtime paramour Toby Olkin. Also survived by his beloved children, stepchildren and children-in-law Robert and Jill, Carol and Randy, Phillip and Janice, and Paul; his adored grandchildren Tyler, Benjamin, Rachel an
 TROY-Sidney. The Labor Zionist Alliance extends condolences to Shula and family on Sid's passing. A life-long Labor Zionist, he was a leader in Habonim, led American Aliya to Kibbutz, and was Executive Director of the Habonim Camping Association. He was a founder of the American Habonim Ass
 WEISS-Elizabeth A. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Elizabeth Weiss, beloved wife of Philip Schechter. We extend our deepest condolences to Philip and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 WILDGRUBER-Rev. Francis C. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of Father Wildgruber on April 30. Reposing at Beney Funeral Home, 79 Berry Hill Road, Syosset, on Tuesday, May 2, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 10 P.M. Funeral Mass on Wednesday, May 3, at St. Edward The Confessor Church, 205 Jac
 Pham Van Dong, who led the Vietnamese Communists' delegation to the Geneva peace talks in 1954 that ended the French war in Indochina and then served as Hanoi's prime minister for three decades, died a day before the 25th anniversary of the fall of Saigon, The Associated Press reported from
 Poul Hartling, a former prime minister of Denmark who headed the office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees when the agency won the 1981 Nobel Peace Prize, died on Sunday. He was 85. Mr. Hartling was a shrewd, paternal and politically gifted administrator, not bless
 Jim Rogers, a horse and cattle rancher who was the last surviving child of the cowboy humorist Will Rogers, died on Friday at his home in Bakersfield, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Rogers was also a consultant to three memorials to his father: the Will Rogers Memorial Museum in Claremore, O
 Jonah Jones, a jazz trumpeter who played with some of the great swing bands and sold a million copies of his versions of ''On the Street Where You Live'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Jones, who was born in Louisville, Ky.,
 BARNES-Robert McKinny, 79, in East Hampton, NY. He is survived by his four sons, Michael, of Sierra Vista, Arizona, Rush, of New York, NY, Robert, Jr., of Easthampton, NY, and Alexander, of Seoul, South Korea. He is also survived by four grandchildren, and five great grandchildren. The fami
 CROSBY-Joseph F. III, of West Halifax, VT and formerly of New York City died April 22nd at his residence. Mr. Crosby was involved in the fashion industry for many years and had operated his own costume company in Manhattan. Memorial contributions to The American Heart Fund, Vermont affiliat
 de ROTHSCHILD-Raphael. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the tragic and untimely passing of Raphael de Rothschild, son of Nili and Nathaniel de Rothschild. Raphael's grandfather, Elie de Rothschild, was for many years chairman of the Unit
 DRESNER-Rabbi Samuel H. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, scholar and teacher. He was rabbi emeritus of Moriah Congregation in Chicago. As a congregational rabbi, he spearheaded the campaign for Jewish funeral reform and was an activist in the cause of ci
 GOLDSCHMIEDT-Ira. The Ampacet Corporation of Tarrytown, NY mourns the untimely loss of their longtime customer and good friend, Ira Goldschmiedt, Director of Purchasing at Tycoplastics & Adhesives. Our condolences go to his wife and family. He will truly be missed by all.       
 MAHONEY-David J. The Board, Staff and entire membership of Research America honor the life of David J. Mahoney, Chairman and CEO of the Charles A. Dana Foundation. A visionary commited to making medical and health research a higher national priority, he leaves a legacy of inspiration and le
 MANDEL-Abe. Beloved music teacher, musician, husband, father, grandfather and friend, died on April 30 at Montefiore Hospital after a sudden stroke. He coauthored ''Abe and Malka's Patterns'', a guitar method book, with his wife Mickie (aka Malka). He was a cherished teacher at the Lucy Mos
 MARK-Alan. On April 30, 2000. He leaves behind a devoted family, his wife Phyllis, children Pamela and Ira, and grandchildren Eli and Jesse. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday, 11:30AM. Interment Beth David Cemetery.       
 OPPENHEIM - Henry. Yeshiva University and its Sy Syms School of Business mourn the passing of a dear friend, a leader of the Jewish community who, with his late wife, Selma, was an SSSB Fellow. We extend heartfelt condolences to their sons, Steven-a YU Guardian and SSSB Founder who establis
 ROMEO-Dr. Vincent D. President and Chief Executive Officer of Nastech Pharmaceutical Company, Inc. in Hauppauge, NY died on May 1, after a long bout with leukemia. Dr. Romeo joined Nastech in 1985 as a Senior Research Scientist. He became Director of Research and shortly thereafter, Vice Pr
 TOBIN-Robert L.B. Robert and his mother, Margaret, were close friends of City Opera for years. He was a lifelong patron of the arts, especially opera, and he will be sorely missed. His commitment to the growth and development of opera will not be forgotten. Paul Kellogg, General & Artistic 
 HOWARD-James. A beloved friend and trusted advisor. His presence in our hallways will be missed, but he resides in our hearts forever. Staff of Biederman Kelly Krimstein & Partners       
 The Rev. Dr. Bryant Mays Kirkland, minister emeritus of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died on Easter Sunday at a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 and lived on a farm in Churchville, Va. The cause was heart failure, the church said. Dr. Kirkland led
 Cardinal John O'Connor, the archbishop of the New York archdiocese's 2.37 million Catholics and the Vatican's most forceful spokesman in the United States, died last night at his residence around the corner from St. Patrick's Cathedral. He was 80 years old. Cardinal O'Connor died of
 Harry Newman, who led the 1933 New York Giants to the National Football League's first championship game as an All-Pro quarterback one season after being honored as college football's top player, died Tuesday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 90. Newman, who concluded his rookie seas
 DRESNER-Rabbi Samuel H. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our distinguished member, Rabbi Samuel H. Dresner. We express profound condolences to his wife Ruth Dresner, his sisters, children, grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion
 GOLDIN-Dr. Gurston. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Dr. Gurston Goldin, beloved brother of our member Jessica Stern. We express profound condolences to his wife, brother, children, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonath
 GROSS-Jeffrey Shaine, who departed this life on May 1st, in his 53rd year in Indianapolis, Indiana. Father of Shaine, Shannon and Sarah. Son of Jack Gross and the late Rita B. Gross. Brother of Stephen Gross, and Deborah Green. A memorial service will be announced at a later date at Kol Ami
 HOLLENDER-Peter. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Peter Hollender, beloved brother of Jeffrey Hollender. We extend our deepest condolences to Jeffrey and his family. Services will be held on May 4 at 3:00 PM at the Jewish Center of the Hamptons, 44 Woods Lane, East Ha
 MAHONEY-David. The faculty and staff of Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our esteemed friend, David Mahoney. Recognized throughout the country as an outstanding business leader and visionary in the field of Neuroscienc
 MOORE-George S., 95, former Chairman and CEO of Citibank (now Citicorp), died April 21, 2000 at his home in Sotogrande, Spain. A Memorial Service will be held at 10:45AM, Monday, May 22nd at St. Vincent Ferrer's, 66th Street & Lexington Avenue, New York, NY.       
 SHERVINGTON-Walter W., MD. The National Medical Association lost its President, Walter W. Shervington, MD to cancer on Saturday, April 15, 2000. Dr. Shervington, a psychiatrist and hospital administrator in New Orleans, La., was a member of the NMA for over 30 years. He dedicated his career
 Raul Rettig, who headed an official inquiry into political atrocities in Chile during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on Sunday at his house in Santiago, Chile. He was 90. Mr. Rettig, a lawyer, had been a senator, an ambassador and something of a swashbuckler before 
 Bayard Webster, a former editor on the science desk of The New York Times and former Times science writer, died on Sunday at the Heron Point Retirement Community in Chestertown, Md. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Webster worked for Th
 Marvin L. Stone, a former editor in chief of U.S. News & World Report and a former deputy director of the United States Information Agency, died on Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 76. The Associated Press said the cause was cancer. Mr. Stone was the chief edit
 ALLEGA-Alfred S. Died Wednesday, May 3, 2000. Mr. Allega was born in East Douglas, Massachusetts on December 19, 1917, the son of the late Josephine (Lavella) and Salvatore Allega. A World War II veteran, he served in the United States Army Air Force. Alfred Allega is survived by his wife N
 FRIEDER-Emanuel. We mourn the loss of the father of our esteemed Cantor Raphael Frieder and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 GROSS-Jeffrey Shaine, who departed this life on May 1, in his 53rd year in Indianapolis, IN. Father of Shaine, Shannon and Sarah. Son of Jack Gross and the late Rita B. Gross. Brother of Stephen Gross, and Deborah Green. Memorial service to be held at Kol Ami Temple, 252 Soundview Ave, Whit
 MAHONEY-David. The President, Board of Trustees, staff, and extended family of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute mourn the passing on May 1 of our esteemed friend and colleague, David Mahoney. In his role as leader of the Charles A. Dana Foundation, David Mahoney helped Dana-Farber to make treme
 MOSSACK-Robert, D.D.S. The Staff Society of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the recent passing of its devoted friend and fellow member Dr. Robert Mossack. He was an active and dedicated member within the Department of Dental Medicine at LIJ. We extend our heartfelt sympathy 
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, His Eminence. The Board of Trustees and members institutions of the Catholic Health Care system of the Archdiocese of New York mourn the loss of the beloved Shepherd of the Archdiocese who has gone to his eternal rest to be with Our Lord. A defender and champion of t
 SCULLY-Charles G. Age 74, died suddenly on April 27, 2000 at home in Yonkers, NY. Born in Waldwick, NJ, a veteran of WWII, a sergeant in the U.S. Army serving in India. After the war Charles went into the broadcast industry as general manager and program director at radio station WPAT in Pa
 THOMPSON-Peter, one of New York's leading acting teachers, died April 24th at New York Hospital of complications following heart surgery. Mr. Thompson taught at Circle in the Square, NYU, and the Michael Howard Studios. As an actor, he appeared opposite Jane Alexander, Eva LeGallienne, Sada
 TOBIN-Robert L.B. The staff and friends of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts are saddened by the death of Robert L.B. Tobin. He served as a member of the Committee for the Dance Division for many years, and we shall miss his wise advice and deep knowledge of the arts of st
 Steve Reeves, the bodybuilder turned movie muscleman whose 1959 film ''Hercules'' ushered in a cycle of sword-and-sandal epics, died Monday at the Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. He was 74 and had become a rancher and fitness guru after retiring from acting three decades ago.   
 William Mehojah, the last pure-blooded member of the Kaw Indian tribe, died of lung failure on April 23 at a hospital in Omaha. He was 82. Mr. Mehojah's Indian name was Little Star, and he belonged to the Night Clan of a Plains tribe known as the Wind People. He watched with witheri
 Dr. Alonzo A. Crim, the first black superintendent of schools in a major city in the South, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta after an automobile accident. He was 71. The accident, involving Dr. Crim's car and two others, occurred a few blocks from a high school named for him.
 Antonio Buero Vallejo, a highly admired Spanish playwright who made his name as a dissident during  Franco's long rule and who in 1986 was awarded the Cervantes Prize, the country's highest literary honor, died on April 28 in a hospital in Madrid. He was 83. Mr. Buero Vallejo, whose
 Bill Musselman, who in the last 35 years held 13 head coaching jobs in college and professional basketball and left an imprint everywhere as a volatile, intense taskmaster, died yesterday at the Mayo Clinic's St. Marys Hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 59. A Mayo Clinic spokesman 
 Gino Bartali, an Italian cycling champion whose victory in the 1948 Tour de France helped unite his politically torn country, died today at his home in Florence, his son Andrea Bartali said. He was 85. Bartali, who also won the Tour de France in 1938 and the Giro D'Italia in 1936, 1
 ALLEGA-Alfred S. Died Wednesday, May 3, 2000. Mr. Allega was born in East Douglas, Massachusetts on December 19, 1917, the son of the late Josephine (Lavella) and Salvatore Allega. A World War II veteran, he served in the United States Army Air Force. Alfred Allega is survived by his wife N
 CHUCK-Jessika (Kolken) of Brookline, MA., formerly of New York City. Beloved wife of Henry R. Loving mother of Bill and his wife Maxine of Brookline. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth & Jennifer. Dear sister of Albert Kolken of Buffalo, NY, Emma Gordon of New York City and the late Anna Kolke
 GARFINKLE - Jerome. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KATZ-Eugene. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute mourns the recent passing of Mr. Eugene Katz. Mr Katz served the White Institute over many decades as an active and vital member of the Board of Trustees. His continued dedication to the mission of the Institute earned him the 
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation.
 SERWER-Howard J. On May 3, 2000 in Washington, D.C. He was Professor Emeritus of Musicology of The University of Maryland, College Park, and resided in Chevy Chase, MD., and Georgetown, ME. He leaves his wife Nancy Rose, sons Nicholas and Andrew, daughter-in-law Frances Fifield and grandchi
 Peter S. O'Brien, a founder and former president of the Council of Supervisors and Administrators, a New York school union, died on Wednesday at his home in Glen Rock, N.J. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. A native of Brooklyn and a graduate of St. John's Un
 Barry Ulanov, a professor and author or translator of nearly 50 books whose interests included jazz, theater, Christian humanism, visual art, Carl Jung and Catholic literature, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Woodbury, Conn. Mr. Ulanov plac
 Charles R. Boxer, who was Britain's chief spy in Hong Kong in the tumultuous years leading up to World War II; a prominent historian of colonial empires although he never earned a college degree and a lead player in one of the most flamboyantly public love stories of the 1940's, died April 
 Harold Lloyd Patton, a stage manager for Ray Charles who is said to have amassed one of the largest private collections of black literature in the United States, died April 19 at a hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Emily. Mr. Patton 
 Isabel Johnson Hiss, Alger Hiss's widow, died Wednesday at her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was 91. ''To Isabel'' was the dedication that Mr. Hiss, a former State Department official, put on his 1988 book,  ''Recollections of a Life.'' That was long after he had 
 Maurice Uchitel, a well-known Manhattan restaurant and nightclub owner in the 1950's and 1960's, died Friday at the Nathan Adelson Hospice in Las Vegas. He was 88. Among his diversified business interests were El Morocco, the legendary society nightclub, which he owned from 1964 to 
 ARTZ-James J., Sr. April 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Madeline (Guercia). Loving father of Grace Artz-Neufeld, James J., Jr., Christine Artz-Singh and Keith. Cherished grandfather of Kelsey Nicole Artz. Dear father-in-law of Frank Neufeld, Ana Mantilla-Artz, Rick Singh and Michelle Buonacor
 BELMONT-Gerard. Age 77. Died May 5. Beloved father of Carol de Gunzburg and Valerie Belmont of New York and Geraldine Belmont and Patrick Belmont of Geneva, Switzerland. Loving grandfather of Gregory and Alexia de Gunzburg. He also is survived by his brother Francis Belmont and sister Nadin
 CURTIN-Murray. On May 3, 2000, at age 66, after a short illness. Graduate of Hamilton College, Heidelberg University and Oxford University. He would want to be remembered as former Editor-inChief and Publisher of the Random House College Department, literary agent and ''Village type.'' Surv
 DEERY-John Robert. Died of cancer on April 29, at the age of 59 in Portola Valley, California. John was educated at Temple and Rutgers Universities, served in the Army as a communications specialist, and spent over 30 years as a telecommunications executive. He is survived by his wife Mary 
 FERNANDEZ-Nestor N., 68, of Bluffton, SC died Saturday, April 30, 2000 at his home. He was born on January 22, 1932 in Buenos Aires, Argentina and was the son of the late Juan Fernandez and Pelegrina Mendez. He moved to Bluffton in January 2000 from West New York, NJ. He was a linotype oper
 GARFINKLE-Jerome. Died on May 4, 2000, in Great Neck, NY. Born in Riga, Latvia, on March 10, 1906. Beloved husband of Raye Gewirtz Garfinkle for 66 years, father of Helen Garfinkle of Tucson, AZ, and Ann Garfinkle-Brent of Washington, DC, grandfather of Duncan, David and William Brent, and 
 GOLDSTEIN - Stanley. Beloved husband and best friend of Francine. Loving father of Heidi Kane and Keith. Loving grandfather of Justin and Briana Kane. Devoted son-in-law of Rhoda Brandt. Loving brother of Paul and brother-inlaw of Sylvia Goldstein and Barbara and Warren Brandt. Devoted uncl
 HENRITZE-David Durham, 76, a well-known insurance executive, passed away on Thursday, May 4, 2000. He was Vice Chairman of Huffines-Russell & Associates. He was the founder of Insurance Underwriters, Inc. of Georgia, which was later sold to the Crump Companies of Memphis, Tennessee of which
 HERFIELD-Lester, 86, retired NYC and L.I. attorney and decorated WWII veteran, will always be remembered for his devotion. He is survived by his wife Rachel, daughter Phyllis, her husband Bill and grandson Sam. Pre-deceased by his son, Burton.       
 HOFF-Knut. Born December 28th, 1912 in Tonsberg, Norway. Died April 30th, 2000 in NYC. Joined Norwegian Merchant Marine in 1928. Spent 1932-34 in Antarctic on Anglo-Norwegian whaling expeditions, wintering on the island of South Georgia. Received degree in engineering from Ilmanau in Thurin
 LEVINE-Alvin, May 2. Adored husband and friend of Audrey; devoted and loving father of Marcia, Jonathan and Sara. Loving fatherin-law of Larry and Bob. Most adoring grandfather to Jodi and Diane. Loving brother-in-law of Carole and Rubin Zelenko. Kind man who will be missed by all and remem
 MOORE-George S., 95, former Chairman and CEO of Citibank (now Citicorp), died April 21, 2000 at his home in Sotogrande, Spain. A Memorial Service will be held at 10:45AM, Monday, May 22nd at St. Vincent Ferrer's, 66th Street & Lexington Avenue, New York, NY.       
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees and staff of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center and Saint Agnes Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center acknowledge with a deep sense of personal loss the passing of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. 
 REIMER-Lee. On May 4, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Sally; devoted father of Ilsa, Nina and Shelley (Craig Allen); adoring grandfather of Tyler, Justin and Jacob. Activist for justice, Yiddish raconteur and humorist, treasured for his kindness and generosity by all who knew him. Donatio
 RONNING-C. Neale. On May 5, 2000, at age 72. Survived by his sister Orpha Sanborn, brothers Phillip and Norton Ronning, and niece and nephew Cheryl and Dr. Gerald F. Ronning, many close friends and family. Services and interment at the Hanson Funeral Home, Kenyon, MN, on May 13.       
 SERWER-Howard J. On May 3, 2000 in Washington, D.C. He was Professor Emeritus of Musicology of The University of Maryland, College Park, and resided in Chevy Chase, MD., and Georgetown, ME. He leaves his wife Nancy Rose, sons Nicholas and Andrew, daughter-in-law Frances Fifield and grandchi
 SHOWE-Alexander Robert. Born July 14, 1920, died May 5, 2000. Mr. Showe passed after a sudden illness in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Showe was born in Papa, Hungary. He graduated from a private preparatory school and came to the United States in 1939 to study at Columbia University. He served as a 
 ZUCKERMAN-Lester. Memorial for Lester Zuckerman. On behalf of his family and friends, Wednesday, May 10 at 1 PM, in the York Suite of the Roosevelt Hotel, Madison Avenue at 45 Street, New York City.       
 Richard Bertram, a champion sailor on powerboats and racing yachts and a leading boat builder and broker, died on April 28 at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84. When Bertram raced, he always looked for other boats to sell. In a 1961 profile, The Saturday Evening Post said he sold $
 Douglas Fairbanks Jr., a debonair actor, producer, administrator, bon vivant and Anglo-American ambassador without portfolio, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Fairbanks, 6 feet tall with dashing good looks, struggled to carve a distinctive ac
 Martin Schilling, a German-born retired executive of the Raytheon Company who worked with Wernher von Braun at Peenemunde, Germany, during World War II to develop the world's first large ballistic missile, the V-2, died on April 30 at a clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 88. Dr. Sch
 BELMONT-Gerard. Age 77. Died May 5. Beloved father of Carol de Gunzburg and Valerie Belmont of New York and Geraldine Belmont and Patrick Belmont of Geneva, Switzerland. Loving grandfather of Gregory and Alexia de Gunzburg. He also is survived by his brother Francis Belmont and sister Nadin
 BLADER-Rubin. On May 3, 2000, at age 94. Devoted husband to Dorothy. Beloved father to Susan, Jay and Linda. Loving grandfather to Brian and Jonathan. Died peacefully in Hanover, NH. A successful businessman, devoted to his family. He touched the lives of all he knew. He will be greatly mis
 HOFF-Knut. Born December 28th, 1912 in Tonsberg, Norway. Died April 30th, 2000 in NYC. Joined Norwegian Merchant Marine in 1928. Spent 1932-34 in Antarctic on Anglo-Norwegian whaling expeditions, wintering on the island of South Georgia. Received degree in engineering from Ilmanau in Thurin
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation.
 RONNING-C. Neale. On May 5, 2000, at age 72. Survived by his sister Orpha Sanborn, brothers Phillip and Norton Ronning, and niece and nephew Cheryl and Dr. Gerald F. Ronning, many close friends and family. Services and interment at the Hanson Funeral Home, Kenyon, MN, on May 13.       
 SCOTCH-Theodore S. 86, of Longmeadow, MA, formerly of Brookline, died Saturday. He was the husband of Frances (Gauchman) Scotch. Father of Dr. David S. Scotch of Westport, CT, and Elaine Fialky of Longmeadow, MA. Father-in-law of Barbara Scotch and Gary Fialky. Brother of Manuel Scotch of W
 SHORE-Josselyn M. May 7, 2000, peacefully at age 96. Beloved husband of Irene Freeman Shore for 71 years. Cherished father of Winifred and Mike Freund and Freeman and Toni Shore. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and Michael Pardee, Mia and Ramsey Walker and Peter and Julie Strauss. Loving Pop
 SHORR-Jay. On May 6, 2000. Husband of Cynthia. Father of Nicholas & his wife Tina Shorr, Emily & her husband Julio Felix. Grandfather of Victoria. Brother of Vera Newman & Grace Zeitlin. Memorial service to be announced shortly. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Psycho
 Ross F. Littell, a furniture and textile designer, died on April 17 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 75. The cause was a brain tumor, his sister, Janice Currey, of Malibu, Calif., said last week. Mr. Littell's characteristic designs were practical, purposeful and fun. ''The N
 Dr. Seymour Sudman, a University of Illinois professor whose books taught pollsters and marketing experts how to phrase questions to get accurate answers, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Champaign, Ill. The cause was complications from a stroke he ha
 Sidney Peterson, an American surrealist filmmaker of the late 1940's and early 50's, died on April 24. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Peterson, who was born in Oakland, Calif., studied at the University of California in Berkeley. He made his early films with help from  his st
 Henry Laskau, who walked out of Hitler's Germany and became America's best race walker for a decade after World War II, died Sunday in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 83. His wife, Hilde, told The Associated Press that Laskau had suffered from Alzheimer's disease. Helmut Laskau, 
 BARKER-Charles S.P. Passed away at his home on May 6, 2000. Former Partner at Reavis and McGrath (currently Fulbright and Jaworski) until his retirement in 1986. Lieutenant Commander in U.S. Naval Reserve. Friends may call Wednesday 5-7 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 81st Str
 CAGLE-Charles Bo. On May 5, 2000. He is survived by his nieces and nephew.       
 CHRISTIAN-John W., Jr., died Sunday, May 7th, 2000. Retired President of B. Altman's of NYC and former Executive Vice President of Thalhimer's Department Store in Richmond, VA. He is survived by his wife, Polly K. Christian, one son and daughter-in-law, John W., III and Sandra H. Christian,
 CITRON-Robert Mark. Born Newark, NJ, March 4, 1945, passed away Sunday, May 7, 2000, in his home. Survived by his mother, Hanna Citron, Pembroke Pines, FL, Michael and Rena Citron, Hartford, CT, Jonathan and Sandy Citron, Chatham, NJ, Laura and Richard Gelber, Hollywood, FL, Wendy and Panag
 COGHLAN-Gerald J. Of Garden City. On May 6, 2000 in his 78th year. Devoted husband of Jean T. Cherished father and friend of Kathleen, Thomas, James, Elizabeth, Rosemary LaMania and Joan Malloy. Dear father in law of Wendy Coghlan, Lawrence LaMania, III and Michael Malloy. Loving grandfathe
 COHEN-Rev. Gerald Philip CSC, of Middletown, Connecticut, May 7, 2000. Son of the late Louis and Mary (Donovan) Cohen; cousin of Alice DeFranco of Sudbury, Robert and Richard Brown of California; also survived by all his brothers of the Holy Cross Community. A Concelebrated funeral mass wil
 EISEN-Herbert. The family of Herbert L. Eisen regretfully announces his passing on Sunday, May 7, 2000 at the age of 79 years. Herb was the husband of Jacqueline for nearly 49 years. He was the father of Lauri Elliot and father-in-law to Jack Elliot. He was the proud grandfather of Lauri an
 ENGEL-Joseph G. Of Princeton, New Jersey. Died peacefully on May 7, 2000 at age 83 after a long illness. Survived by his wife of 52 years, Jane D. Engel of Princeton, NJ. Also survived by his sons, William V. Engel of Basking Ridge, NJ, Richard F. Engel of West Windsor, NJ, and Robert J. En
 FAIRBANKS-Douglas, Jr. We mourn the loss of our beloved member and dear friend, Douglas. A true gent in every sense of the word. He regaled us often with his wonderful stories and charming company. Our love and support to his beautiful Vera and the Fairbanks family. He will be truly missed.
 FETTERMAN-Max. The partners and associates of Loeb & Troper express our sincere condolences to our partner Allen Fetterman and his sister Judi Whilden upon the loss of their father. Max also left two brothers and four grandchildren. He was 85 years old and resided in Craig, CO. May the fami
 FINE-George. Former president of R.E. Bruer Company. Beloved husband of Fay Fine, father of Richard and Nedra, grandfather to Kevin and Russell. He will always be remembered and missed.       
 FISCHER-Bob. Of Water Mill, NY, May 7th. Cherished husband of Sue Charney Fischer. Beloved father of Susan Fischer-Diaz and Jill Conway. Adored grandfather of Nico and Mariel. Dear brother of Renee Moss. Legendary photographer's representative. His generosity, wit and unique style will be g
 FISHKIN-Harold. The friends and family of Hal Fishkin mourn his sudden death. Hal was an extraodinarily gifted community psychiatrist who dedicated himself to improving the lives of children and families living in poverty and crisis. Hal was a passionate, active, optimistic man who always s
 FLEMING-Gus. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc., notes with sadness the death of Gus Fleming, Director of Concert Halls at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts since 1988 and a longstanding friend and associate of the New York Philharmonic. Responsible for managing Avery 
 GANZ-Harry Sidney. Beloved husband of Norma. Loving father of Leslie (Thomas) Manisero, Nancy (Mitchell) Steir, and the late Steven. Cherished grandfather of Stefanie, Max and Rachel. He will be greatly missed. Services today, 11:30 AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, F
 KAFKO-Harold. Partners and staff of Kafko, Schnitzer & Sheeger extend our deepest condolences to Neil Kafko on the loss of his beloved father Harold. Our thoughts are with you and your bereaved family during this most difficult time.       
 O'BRIEN-Thomas P. On May 7, 2000, at age 59, lost his brave battle against cancer. Beloved husband of Marilena. Loving father of Sharon Kendregan and her husband Chris. Adoring grandfather of Morgane. Devoted brother of Liz and dear uncle of Carrie and Brian. Interment private. Memorial ser
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Administration, Staff and Student Body of the College of Mount Saint Vincent mourns the passing of the Archbishop of New York, John Cardinal O'Connor. As a community of learners, and seekers of wisdom and understanding, the College com
 ROSEMOND-Leland. Died on April 27, 2000. An inspiration to many in the advertising business, he will be missed. Survived by wife, Florence, his daughters, Lathie, and Carter, and his sons, Joe, and Dan.       
 SCHERAGO-Earl J. passed away May 8th after a short illness. Beloved husband of Marsha. Loving father of Gina (James), Susanne (Frank), Jacque (Kirk) and Darrin (Mindy). Adoring grandfather of Caitlin, Devin, Casey and Jena and a devoted brother of Emily. A graduate of Cornell University. Pr
 SERGI-Rocco J. died May 7, 2000 at his home in Forest Hills, Queens, after a short illness. No one was more devoted to his family and the work ethic. He is survived by his loving wife of 55 years Frances Barbieri Sergi; and two sons, Attorney Vincent Sergi, Managing Partner, Katten Muchin L
 SHEFTELL-Joseph age 87 of Lake Worth, Florida died May 6, 2000, after a protracted illness. Born in Russia to Benjamin and Hoda, he emigrated to America as a young boy. He had two sisters, Irene and Selma. After serving in the Battle of the Bulge in World War II he began his career as a bus
 SHILENSKY-Michael D. Retired New York City Police Department Detective, Legal Division. Attorney and advisor to many. Loving father of Wendy and Mark. Dear brother of Sylvia Freed. Caring uncle of Lisa, Richard and the late Amy Freed. Loving son of the late Morris and Celia. Beloved friend 
 SHORE-Josselyn M. May 7, 2000, peacefully at age 96. Beloved husband of Irene Freeman Shore for 71 years. Cherished father of Winifred and Mike Freund and Freeman and Toni Shore. Adored grandfather of Jennifer and Michael Pardee, Mia and Ramsey Walker and Peter and Julie Strauss. Loving Pop
 SHORR-Jay. On May 6, 2000. Husband of Cynthia. Father of Nicholas & his wife Tina Shorr, Emily & her husband Julio Felix. Grandfather of Victoria. Brother of Vera Newman & Grace Zeitlin. Memorial service to be announced shortly. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Psycho
 STEVENS-Adolph. The Collateral Loan Brokers Association of New York records with sorrow the passing of our esteemed member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Gerald Modell, President Robert E. Gross, Secy/Treas.       
 Clifford S. Sutter, the graceful, world-ranked stylist of the 1930's and tennis populist of the 1960's who sought to expand the game from its country club base into the public schools and parks as the president of the Eastern Lawn Tennis Association, died last Thursday in Barnstable, Mass. 
 Lewis Allen, who directed ''The Uninvited,'' one of Hollywood's favorite ghost stories, and who helped Frank Sinatra achieve one of his best dramatic performances as a professional assassin in ''Suddenly,'' died on May 3 in a nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Allen
 BARRY-Kevin. On May 7, 2000, at 747 months (62+ years). Much loved husband of Joan Ohlson, suportive son of Kathleen Barry, caring father of Kevin, Dianna (Speranza), Garrett and Darren, respected brother of Jim, Kim, and Steve, and proud grandfather of Aleah, Jimmy, Brian, Devin, Nikolas. 
 BROD-Carol. We mourn the death of our dear friend and colleague and cherished wife of Ernest Brod, a member of the Board of the Society of Modern Psychoanalysts. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his children and family. The Society of Modern Psychoanalysts BROD-Carol. Your life ha
 CROTHERS-Lucy A. The Producer Circle Company extends heartfelt sympathy to our colleague Sam Crothers, and his family, for the passing of his beloved mother. Our prayers are with you. Martin Richards Maryanne Dittmann Tony Maffatone Monique Bell Michael Milton Dan Gallagher       
 DAMIANI-Yolanda, on May 9, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Primo. Loving mother of Peter & his wife Eileen, and Renold & his wife Lorraine. Dear sister of Alfred & Ines. Devoted grandmother of Nancy, Susan, Christopher & Jill. Established Pete Damiani & Sons in 1937, Astoria. Reposing at Tho
 EDLUND-Richard Harding. May 8, 2000, of Pound Ridge, NY. Former Corporate Advertising Manager for The New York Times. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Karen of Arlington, MA, Kristen of South Salem, NY and Aimee Maescher of Norwell, MA. Grandfather of Katherine Maescher. Father
 FAIRBANKS-Douglas, Jr., KBE, DSC. On behalf of all members of The Order of St. John, we express our profound sorrow over the passing of our confrere, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. Having become a Knight of the Order of St. John in Great Britain, Douglas played a major role in the establishment and
 FATES-J. Gilbert, on May 1, 2000. Beloved husband of Faye Appleberry. Proud, adoring father of Amy, Gib, Decia. Smitten fatherin-law of Yolanda. Friend of Bushrod and Mazie. Born Sept. 29, 1913, in Newark, NJ to Dora Racicot and Joseph Faatz, Gil graduated from the University of Virginia in
 FIORIE-Daniel N. On May 8, 2000. Attorney at law. Beloved husband of Jeanette, loving father of Donna Anselmo of St. James, NY and Gerri Dundie of New Rochelle, NY, beloved brother of Josephine Cirincione of New Port Ritchie, FL and Ralph J. Fiorie of Orlando, FL. He is survived by grandchi
 FITZPATRICK-Eugene Vincent. Age 73, of Jacksonville, FL, died peacefully in his sleep at home on Monday, May 8, 2000. He leaves Mildred Libath Fitzpatrick, his dear wife and best friend of 50 years; his six devoted children and their spouses and 12 adoring grandchildren. A native New Yorker
 FLEMING-Gus. With great sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Gus Fleming, Director of Lincoln Center's Avery Fisher and Alice Tully Concert Halls since 1988. Gus passed away on Saturday, May 6, 2000, at his home in Mount Vernon, N
 GLADSTEIN-Irving. On Tuesday, May 9, 2000 of West Caldwell, NJ. Beloved husband of Sylvia (nee Steinberger). Devoted father of Beverly Stern, Ned Gladstein and Lynne Mesznik. Adored brother of Sylvia Yanow and Doris Gordon. Loving grandfather of nine grandchildren. Funeral services conduced
 HANDLIN-Ralph. On May 6, 2000 in California. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Jay and the late Mitchell. Dear father-inlaw of Laura. Cherished grandfather of Rachel. Brother of Max and Edith Handlin. Services Wednesday, 10 AM, at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 11403 Q
 MECKLER-Herman L., died 9 May, in Longboat Key, Florida. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Lillian; his children, Nancy and Alan, and six grandchildren. Born in Cleveland, he lived most of his working life in New York and London. He was the founder and CEO of Leaseplan International. 
 MENDEZ-Richard Robert, on May 8, 2000 in New Haven. Born September 23, 1944 in San Diego, CA. Graduate of San Diego State University with a degree in Business Administration and Fine Arts. Veteren of the U.S. Army. Lived 25 years in New York City, and worked as a graphic artist. Mr. Mendez 
 O'BRIEN-Thomas P. The officers of Cypress Chemical Company note with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed partner and cherished friend. He was a gifted businessman of many talents and a dignified human being who will truly be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family
 O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ronald S. Lauder Foundation deeply mourns the passing of an eminent humanitarian John Cardinal O'Connor. We gratefully recall his magnificent participation at the 50th commemoration of Kristallnacht organized by our foundation. His moral voice and inspired leader
 SCHERAGO-Earl J. May 8, 2000. We deeply regret the passing of our founder, a leader with great vision, compassion and dedication. He will be long remembered and sorely missed. Scherago International       
 SHEIL-Denis R. passed away May 8, 2000 at his residence in The Woodlands, TX. He was born August 20, 1927 in Bronx, New York. He was a graduate of Fordham University and Fordham Law School, New York, New York. Retired officer NYC District Council of Carpenter's and Local #       
 SHORR-Jay, M.D. We mourn the passing of our dear and close friend. His warmth, generosity and compassion will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to his wife, Cynthia, his children, Nicky and Emily, and sister, Vera. The Raskin Family       
 TUTEUR-Roger. On May 9, 2000 at age 94. Adored husband of Audrey. Father of the late Henry Tuteur. Loving father of Ann. Cherished grandfather of Ottavia. Funeral services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street on Friday 11:30 A.M. Interment private. Contributions in h
 PORCARO-Vincent T. Today, May 10th, we celebrate the birthday of a kind and gentle man whose intellect, passion for the arts, love of life and generous spirit were an inspiration to all who were fortunate to have known him. You are loved and dearly missed. Howar       
 Peter Thompson, an actor on stage and in film who later taught drama for more than 20 years, died on April 24 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from heart surgery, said Robert Cosenza, his companion. An Oklahoma 
 Sabri Tahir, a colorful Turkish Cypriot businessman who was renowned for his friendship with the novelist Lawrence Durrell, was shot dead on Monday afternoon in Cyprus. He was 76. News reports said a man shot Mr. Tahir several times in his office at a hotel that he owned in Lefkosa,
 Arthur William Dake, a chess grandmaster and one of the last of a talented crop of American players who won major competitions before World War II, died on April 28 in Reno. He was 90 and lived in Portland, Ore. Mr. Dake had a brilliant although abbreviated career as a chess player.
 Brian Jameson, a former ballet dancer, died on April 28 in Washington. He was 42 and lived in Washington. The cause was lung cancer, said Robin H. Villanueva, a friend. Mr. Jameson, a native of Hartford, studied ballet at the Hartford Conservatory and at the Academy of the W
 Cornelius Adolphus Scott, editor and publisher of The Atlanta Daily World from 1934 until 1997 and a strong voice for the interests of its black readers, died on Sunday at an Atlanta hospital. He was 92. Widely known as C. A. Scott, he became head of The World, a family business, on
 CROTHERS-Lucy A. (nee Tutunjian). October 4, 1919-May 8, 2000. Survived by her daughter, Diane Scholz, and sons, David and Sam, sisters Alice Basralian and Virginia Tutunjian, and brother Thomas Tutunjian. Grandmother of Lisa Thies and Lori Crothers, Eugene Scholz Kocienski, Joseph, Robert 
 FELDMAN-Rabbi Alan Lee. On May 8, 2000. Dear brother of Steven. Adored step son of Leah. Loving step brother of Caren, Richard and Carl. Cherished brother-in-law of Jeanmarie. Dearest uncle of Craig, Andrew and Zachary. Loving friend of Jan. He will be missed by all of his family and friend
 GLADSTEIN-Irving. Green Brook Country Club mourns the passing of member Mr. Irving Gladstein, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Sylvia and to the entire family.       
 HOBERMAN-David. Much loved husband of Mara. Devoted father of Brett Jordan, adored son of Tammy and Kenneth, cherished brother of Ellen and Garret Rubin. Treasured by his family through marriage Barbara and Bob Weisberger and their children Jodi and Cari and husband Jonathan and Erik. Most 
 MARANO-Gary R. The Upper West Side is mourning the sudden untimely death of entrepreneur Gary Marano, 47, an owner of the Raccoon Lodge who was killed in a motorcycle accident in Montauk on Sunday, May 7, 2000. Awardwinning artist, photographer, sailing enthusiast, world traveler and theatr
 NUMEROFF-Seymour G., D.D.S. Of Roslyn Heights, NY. May 9, 2000. Age 75. After a long and valiant struggle against kidney disease. Devoted husband of Harriet. Beloved father of Gil and Robin, Nancy and Neil, Jane and Kenneth. Adored grandfather of Lauren, Jaime, Matthew, Alexandra and Jonath
 RUDOLPH-Andy. Born July 9, 1939, died May 8, 2000 after a short but fierce battle with cancer. Andy spent his career in the financial services industry on Wall Street. He joined National Securities Corporation based in Seattle, WA in September of 1998 as Eastern Regional Compliance Officer.
 SILBERBERG-Wolfgang, on May 9, 2000. Devoted and adored husband of the late Hannelore Silberberg. Beloved father, grandfather, brother and uncle. A well-known survivor of the Holocaust, his legacy of warmth and courage will live on in the many lives he touched. Funeral services today at 1 P
 TUTEUR-Roger. On May 9, 2000 at age 94. Adored husband of Audrey. Father of the late Henry Tuteur. Loving father of Ann. Cherished grandfather of Ottavia. Dear brother-in-law of Barbara and Herbert St. Lifer. Funeral services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street on F
 UCHIMA-Ansei. On May 9, 2000, at age 79. Beloved husband of Toshiko, devoted father of Anju and Yoko, proud grandfather of Maya and Lenn, dear brother of Ansho and the late Kei, and Franklin. Esteemed woodblock print artist, painter and Fine Arts Professor. Emeritus Faculty Member at Sarah 
 William J. Boyle, a Long Island banker who played a major role in devising the first bank-issued credit card -- a forerunner of Visa and Mastercard -- died on April 30. He was 88 and lived in Garden City, N.Y. Mr. Boyle developed the Franklin Charge Account Plan, which charged inter
 David W. Williams, the first black federal judge west of the Mississippi, a founder of the first black lawyers association in Los Angeles and a crusader in abolishing restrictive housing covenants, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. Among the many a
 Dr. Jay Shorr, a psychoanalyst and leading teacher of other psychoanalysts, died on Saturday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his wife, Cynthia, said. Dr. Shorr's ties to the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society, on East 8
 Dr. Emanuel R. Piore, a retired research physicist who marshaled federal dollars for scientific research, advised presidents and helped I.B.M. develop a new generation of digital computers, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. After a st
 Gervase Cowell, the British secret agent who ran Col. Oleg Penkovsky, one of the most valuable Soviet turncoat spies, died on May 2. He was 73 and lived in Sutton, Surrey, in England. Mr. Cowell was in Moscow under diplomatic cover as an operative for the Secret Intelligence
 BARRY-Kevin. On May 7, 2000, at 747 months (62+ years). Much loved husband of Joan Ohlson, suportive son of Kathleen Barry, caring father of Kevin, Dianna (Speranza), Garrett and Darren, respected brother of Jim, Tim, and Steve, and proud grandfather of Aleah, Jimmy, Brian, Devin, Nikolas. 
 BAVARO-Nicholas V. On May 9, 2000, of Staten Island, NY. District Retail Manager for The Kraft Food Company, Inc. Beloved husband of Mary. Dearest father of Nicholas, Joseph and Michelle. Devoted son of Maria and the late Andrea. Devoted grandfather of Sophia and Gabriella. Also survived by
 DART-Allan Kent. Colleagues and students of The American Language Institute, NYU mourn the passing May 4 of Allan Kent Dart, much-loved teacher, author, friend. Born August 20, 1937, he earned degrees from the California College of Arts and Crafts and Cornell University. He is survived by s
 FLEISCHMANN-Mildred on May 11, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Max J. Loving mother of Marjorie Posner, Jay Fleischmann and his wife Toby. Adoring grandmother of Keith Fleishmann and Lisa and Noah Barfield. Dear sister of the late Sylvia Levinson, Betty Epstein, Goldie Rockower and David Opo
 FRIEDIN-Harold. Harold was a friend of a lifetime. He had the qualities required for true friendship including loyalty, compassion, wit, intelligence and a wonderful sense of humor. He was an ''up'' guy, courageous as an airman and in his last battle. We will miss him sorely. Bill and Rita 
 FUIRST-William, age 99 on May 11. Beloved husband of the late Pauline Fuirst, loving father of Alan and Susan Fuirst; Phyllis and Richard Baker; adored grandfather of Ken and Sue Fuirst; Pam and Allen Weiss; Ellen and Michael Weiss and Caren Baker and proud great grandfather of six. Service
 GLATZER-Rabbi Joseph. Congregation Beth Sholom of Lawrence records with profound sorrow the passing in Israel of our revered and beloved Shamash for over 45 years. After miraculously surviving the Shoah, he devoted his life to serving his people. He will be remembered as an extraordinary sc
 GORFINKLE-Lawrence David. 56, on May 10, 2000, after a courageous battle with a sudden illness. Beloved husband of Alaine. Loving father of Joshua, Gwen, Lynn and Marc. Devoted brother of Irene Lowengart, Anne Schneider, Emily Watt and the late James. Son of the late Herbert and Evelyn. Car
 HELLER-Irwin. May 10, 2000, of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Patricia, devoted brother of Max and the late Joseph Heller. Loving son of the late Nathan and Pauline Heller. Former business manager of Nassau-Suffolk Frozen Foods of Great Neck, NY. Funeral services will be held Sunday, May
 MARANO-Gary R. The Upper West Side is mourning the sudden untimely death of entrepreneur Gary Marano, 47, an owner of the Raccoon Lodge who was killed in a motorcycle accident in Montauk on Sunday, May 7, 2000. Awardwinning artist, photographer, sailing enthusiast, world traveler and theatr
 McCARTHY-John T., M.D. of Tenafly, N.J. on May 10, 2000. Beloved Husband of Carol (nee Wacewiz). Devoted father of Ann E. Gardiner, Dr. Denise McCarthy Abel and Caroline Krasnoff. Dear brother of Dr. Denise McCarthy. Loving grandfather of David, Thomas and Lauren. Friends may call at the Ba
 PARKS-Harold Freeman, retired actor and theater director in New York City for many years, died Wednesday, May 10, in Beth Israel Hospital. Born October 18, 1918 in Medford, MA, he was the son of the late David and Annette Robillard Parks and was a Captain in the U.S. Army Air Corps in World
 PERTON-Fannie. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Fannie Perton, beloved mother of Irwin Perton, our Assistant Treasurer. We extend our deepest condolences to Irwin and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President  
 TUTEUR-Roger. On May 9, 2000 at age 94. Adored husband of Audrey. Father of the late Henry Tuteur. Loving father of Ann. Cherished grandfather of Ottavia. Dear brother-in-law of Barbara and Herbert St. Lifer. Funeral services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street on F
 Stanley Boxer, a versatile artist known for his thickly brushed abstract paintings, died on Monday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 73. The cause was complications from colon cancer, according to his wife, Joyce Weinstein, a painter. Born in New Yo
 Craig Stevens, who created the title role of the suave but tough private eye in ''Peter Gunn,'' a popular television series in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 81. When not chasing down evildoers and dazzling the women who crossed his path, Mr
 Gus Fleming, the director of concert halls at Lincoln Center since 1988, and before that the company manager of the Lincoln Center Out-of-Doors Festival and a line producer of the JVC Jazz Festival, died last Saturday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 56. Eileen McMahon, a sp
 Homer A. Thompson, an archaeologist who for decades led the sweeping and painstaking excavation of the Agora, the civic center of ancient Athens, died Sunday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 93. Dr. Thompson brought high intelligence, keen intuition and boundless energy to rec
 John P. Robin, who played an influential role in the transformation of Pittsburgh from a smoggy, grimy city into one of gleaming skyscrapers and grassy promenades, died on Sunday at his daughter's house in Pittsburgh. He was 87. Mr. Robin was the first executive director of the Urba
 John Charles de Wilde, a retired economist for the State Department and the World Bank, died on April 27 at his home in Redwood City, Calif. A former resident of Alexandria, Va., he was 89. Mr. de Wilde, who was born in Boskoop, the Netherlands, graduated from Harvard University in 
 Dr. Joseph LePage McCarthy, emeritus professor of chemical engineering and forest resources at the University of Washington and a former dean of its graduate school, died on Monday in Seattle. He was 86 and lived in Seattle. Dr. McCarthy researched wood chemistry and taught at the u
 BADER-Nathan. On May 12, 2000 at age 92. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Adored father of Ann Bader Geller. Loving grandfather of Richard, Larry and Tracy and great grandfather of Alixandre, Zachary and Sophia. Graveside service at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Sunday, May 14, 2:00 PM. Contributions in
 BAGERIS-John, formerly of Cambridge, MA on May 9, 2000. Father of Alexandra of Cambridge, MA and J. Evan of Medford, MA. Brother of Georgia Russell of Dearborn, MI. Memorial service Saturday, June 3rd at 5PM in Adolphus-Busch Hall, 27 Kirkland St., Cambridge, MA. Contributions in his memory
 CHOWES-Ben. March 12, 1938May 10, 2000. He never followed the parade; he observed the parade carefully and commented according to his vision. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to NARSAD Research, 60 Cutter Mill Road, Great Neck, NY 11021. With love, his brother David       
 LEARY-Genevieve L. On May 10, 2000, of Rockville, MD. Wife of the late William P. Leary. Beloved mother of Brian M. Leary and his wife, Barbara A. Leary, Kevin D. Leary and his wife, Elizabeth M. Leary, grandmother of Brittany E. Leary, Genevieve N. Leary and Alexis E. Leary, sister of Mrs.
 PIORE-Emanuel R., PhD. The Boards of Overseers & Managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center are deeply saddened by the death of their colleague and advisor, Dr. Emanuel R. Piore. Dr. Piore began his association with Memorial Sloan-Kettering in 1963 as a member of The Board of Truste
 SHEA-James Donald, age 72, of Bethpage, Long Island, and Shelter Island, New York. Formerly of Albertson, died May 11, 2000 after a long battle with cancer. Born October 25, 1927 to James Francis Shea & Frances Fitzgerald Shea of Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his loving wife Ruth Theobald Shea,
 UCHIMA-Ansei. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of emeritus faculty member, Ansei Uchima, on May 9, 2000. Distinguished artist and revered teacher, he provided a guiding vision for our studio arts program for 20 years until his retirement in 1982. We extend our deepest symp
 Robert C. Bassett, a former lawyer, labor negotiator and publisher who represented small-business interests on the councils of two presidential administrations, died on May 2 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. Mr. Bassett was born in Sturgeon Bay, Wis., on March 2, 1911. He gr
 Bernhard Heiden, a composer who was for many years chairman of the composition department at Indiana University, died April 30 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. Mr. Heiden was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, in 1910, and began writing music when he was 6. As a child, h
 Charles F. Banfe Jr., a former airline pilot and Stanford University professor who twice flew small planes alone around the world, died on March 17 in Tucson. The cause was pneumonia. He was 82 and lived in Tucson. Mr. Banfe (pronounced BAN-fee) was on leave from Pan American World 
 The Rev. Dr. J. Edward Carothers, a retired minister and former chief executive of national ministries for the United Methodist Church, died on May 1 at his retirement home in Doylestown, Pa., near Philadelphia. He was 92. Dr. Carothers, who took a keen interest in theology's relati
 John W. Christian Jr., a former president of B. Altman & Company, died May 7 at his home in Richmond, Va. He was 74. The cause was a heart aneurysm. Born in Durham, N.C., on March 16, 1926, Mr. Christian graduated from Duke University in 1948. He began his retailing career at Thalhi
 Laurie C. Battle, a former representative from Alabama who was linked to an important piece of cold war legislation, died on May 2 at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 87 and lived in Alexandria, Va. Mr. Battle, a Democrat, served four terms in Congress, representing Birmi
 BADER-Nathan. On May 12, 2000 at age 92. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Adored father of Ann Bader Geller. Loving grandfather of Richard, Larry and Tracy and great grandfather of Alixandre, Zachary and Sophia. Graveside service at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Sunday, May 14, 2:00 PM. Contributions in
 BRENNER-Fred. The Board of Directors of Century Tower notes with sorrow the passing of our good friend and neighbor, Fred Brenner, husband of our Board member, Lois Brenner. We will miss his good humor, his quick wit, and his warm heart. Bernard Solomon, President       
 DESHLER-James, II. 91. Of Delray Beach, FL on May 9, 2000. Graduate of Williams College and Rutgers Law School. He was a partner in the law firm of Hicks, Kuhlthau, Thompson & Deshler, New Brunswick, NJ; served ''Of Counsel'' to Johnson & Johnson; and retired as Chairman of Engelhard Minera
 KOMAROW-Sylvia. On May 11, 2000, in Norwalk, CT. Widow of Robert S. Komarow. Loving mother of Steve and Stephanie Komarow, Bruce and Marsha Komarow, Lawrence Komarow and his partner John Schenkel, Ronni Komarow and Eric West, Judy Komarow. Cherished sister of Marion Sragg, and adoring grand
 O'BRIEN-Thomas P. On May 7, 2000, at age 59, lost his brave battle against cancer. Beloved husband of Marilena. Loving father of Sharon Kendregan and her husband Chris. Adoring grandfather of Morgane. Devoted brother of Liz and dear uncle of Carrie and Brian. Interment private. Memorial ser
 PIORE-Emanuel R. The Trustees and Staff of the New York Hall of Science extend their deepest sympathies to Nora and the Piore family as they mourn the loss of Emanuel, our founding President and longtime leader. He will be profoundly missed. Ivan G. Seidenberg, Chairman Alan J. Friedman, Di
 PREZIOSI-Romolo M. Born July 31, 1911 in Naples, Italy to the late Concetta and Luigi Preziosi. Died May 12, 2000. Devoted husband of the late Mary Fazioli. Loving father of Professor Donald (UCLA) and Regina P. DeRise (Queens College). Dear brother to his twin Remo and the late Antino. Che
 SANDERS-Morton, 79, formerly of Manhattan, died May 5 in Toms River, NJ. He worked as an architectural designer creating Morton Sanders/Space Planning and Design, retiring in 1983. He played drums and shekere on Sundays in Central Park for about 25 years; moved to NJ in 1997. Survived by hi
 SILVEY-Don. The Board, Staff and Members of the Empire State Pride Agenda mourn the death of Don Silvey, a good friend, commuinity leader and loyal supporter. Our condolences and thoughts go out to his partner, Vaughn, and to his family and many friends. Kate Gallivan and Jeff Soref, Co-Cha
 TOCKERMAN-Gilbert. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Little Neck, NY, on April 28, 2000, at age 83 years. Formerly Vice President of Feature Ring Company, NYC. Beloved husband of Elaine. Loving father of Yale, Sheryl, Elsie and Debra. Devoted ''Poppy'' of Jan-Michael, Christopher, Anthony, 
 Dr. Barry Louis Sherman, director of the George Foster Peabody Awards for television programs at the University of Georgia, died on May 2 after collapsing in a lunchtime basketball game on the Athens campus. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, the university said. Dr. S
 Keizo Obuchi, a bland, self-effacing politician who as Japan's prime minister brought some stability to the country's faltering economy and fractious politics, died this afternoon in Tokyo. He was 62 and had been relieved of his duties as prime minister after suffering a stroke in e
 FOGEL-Nelson. On May 13, 2000. Devoted father of Claire, Arlene, and Stuart. Cherished grandfather of Beth, Leslie, Cindy, and Meryl. Loving great-grandfather of Lyndsy, Justin, and Ross. He will be forever in our hearts.       
 POLAK-J. Robert. Of Ridgefield, CT, formerly of Flushing, NY. Survived by his wife Rosalie (nee McGarry) Polak, a son J. Robert ''Chip'' Polak III, two daughters Kathleen P. Murphy and Mary Pat Brody, as well as six grandchildren. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 10 AM, St. Mary's R.C. Chu
 ZONERAICH-Dr. Samuel. Born November 4, 1921, passed away on May 13, 2000. Cardiologist at Long Island Jewish Hospital, Flushing Hospital and The New York Hospital in Queens. He dedicated his life to medicine and the field of Cardiology. He is survived by his brother Bruno and his family. Th
 Timothy M. Kiley, who directed some of the leading television variety shows of the 1960's and 70's, died on April 29 at a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, his son Timothy said. Mr. Kiley directed ''The Ed Sullivan Sho
 Dong Kingman, an American-born watercolorist known for humorously illustrational cityscapes, magazine covers and contributions to Hollywood films, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Kingman was born in Oakland, Calif., in 1911. His father was a Chinese immigrant
 Gil Fates, an executive producer of some of the leading television game and panel shows of the 1950's and 60's, died on May 1 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. In more than 35 years with Goodson-Todman Productions, Mr. Fates helped t
 ARKIN-Herbert. Baruch College mourns the death of our former colleague, Herbert Arkin, Emanuel Saxe Professor Emeritus of Statistics in the Zicklin School of Business. He served 43 years as a faculty member and Chair of the Department of Statistics in the Zicklin School of Business. He is s
 BANKS-Paul N. On May 10, 2000, at his home in New York, after a short illness. Pioneer in the field of book and library preservation, a founding member of the American Institute of Conservation and president 1978-80. Born in California, graduate of Carnegie-Mellon University. Book designer,
 DAVIS-Glenn R. Age 57, of Ann Arbor, MI. On May 13, 2000, he lost a brave battle against cancer. Beloved husband of Katie Pelz-Davis, adoring father of Peter, Becky and Michael, loving son-in-law of Mary Jane and Robert Pelz.       
 FELDMAN-Robert. We are deeply grieved to have lost the Chairman of our Board, Robert Feldman. Robert Feldman, a man of understanding, compassion, humor and generosity, served this Board and the children of New York City for over forty years. He devoted his talent, energy and time to helping
 GOLFMAN-Dr. Arnold W., of Bay Shore passed away at home on May 13, 2000 after a long illness. He was 81. Beloved husband of Joan. Devoted father and stepfather of Sheila Ackerman, Robert Golfman and Michael and Steven Glass. Loving grandfather of Evan & Colin Ackerman, Peter, Catherine Case
 KATZ-Jack. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with deep sorrow the passing of Jack Katz, Vice Chairman Emeritus of the Associate Board of Directors. In 1980, he received the Brookdale Medal, the institution's highest honor. Mr. Katz was Chairman of the Cadillac Raf
 KINGMAN-Dong, age 89, of New York. World-renowned watercolorist whose artistic career spanned seven decades, died peacefully at home on May 12 in Manhattan. Survived by his sons Eddie and Dong Jr., grandchildren Jerry, Kelly, Melissa & Jonathan, sisters Sylvia Wong, Esther Fong, Lily Tang a
 LEWIS-Rabbi Theodore N. Died on May 15, 2000. Beloved father and teacher, grandfather and great grandfather, mourned by his family. Remembered with love by the thousands and thousands of men and women of four generations to whom he taught Torah and Yiddishkeit and the love of Ha - Shem, Zei
 MELMAN-Morris. Beloved husband of the late Dina, died on May 13, five days short of his 92nd birthday. His vital spirit and extraordinary love of life will be cherished by all who knew him. Survived by loving daughters, Gisele Melnick & Faith Kanner, son-inlaw, Michael Melnick, grandchildre
 PERSKY-Herman. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Max L. Som, M.D., Department of Otolaryngology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Herman Persky, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Mark S. Persky, M.D., Vice Chair
 REINITZ-Jerome L., died Saturday, May 13, 2000, at age 85. He is survived by his children, Michael, Nancy Bernstein and Peter, their spouses, nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Jerry was loved by his family and many friends. He was a Brooklyn boy who became a major force in t
 SCHLUGER-Joseph. Husband of Charlotte. Father of Neil, Olga and James. Father-in-law of Leona, Phil and Rosemary. Grandfather of Jenny, Aaron, Martha, Benjamin, Adam, Julia, Hannah and Jack. Brother of Bernard, Nancy, Ray, Abie, Millie, Betty and Jack. On May 14, 2000. His long and distingu
 STONE-Theodore (Ted), age 83. Former New York Times photographer, naval photographer, President of Tilton Textile Corp and of Temple Israel of Northern Westchester, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Born New York City. Attended Wharton; his U.S. naval photo collection is now at the Mariner's Museum. L
 TENENBAUM-Herman. Passed away May 13, at the age of 94 in Weston, Florida. Formerly of West End Avenue, he was a survivor of the Holocaust, a real estate broker, investor and philanthropist in New York, Philadelphia and Israel as well as a passionate Mets fan and tennis player. Husband of t
 Rodman C. Rockefeller, the eldest son of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was active in efforts that led to the North American Free Trade Agreement and in forging closer ties between the United States and Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 68 and
 C. Eric Lincoln, author of several of the most important scholarly works on the religious experience of black Americans, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 75. He had been suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and heart trouble, his family said. Dr. Lin
 Herbert T. F. Cahoon, a curator who presided over the collection of literary and historical manuscripts at the Morgan Library for 35 years, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82. The library is one of the world's major repositories of such papers, and the han
 Karl Shapiro, whose mordant verse, written when he was a young soldier in New Guinea in World War II, earned him a Pulitzer Prize in 1945, died on Sunday at a hospice in New York City. He was 86. Only the most embroidered adjectives could describe the success Mr. Shapiro achieved in
 LEWIS-Theodore N., Rabbi. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the death of its distinguished Past President, Rabbi Theodore Lewis, and extends its sincere condolences to his family, loved ones, and many students and former congregants. Rabbi Marc Gellman, Pres. Rabbi Gilbert Rosenthal Exec 
 REYNOLDS-Robert Quinn, DDS, MD, age 82. He is survived by his sisters Frances Miller and Mary Lemmon and brother, Thomas. His children Robert J. Reynolds, Roberta A. Reynolds, Barbara Mattesich and her husband, John. Dr. Reynolds was a DDS from the Univ. of Penna. and an M.D. from NY Medica
 ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council and staff are deeply saddened by the passing of Rodman C. Rockefeller, our longtime friend and colleague. Rodman served on the Board of the Museum from 1989 to 1996, was an active member o
 SCHLUGER-Joseph, M.D. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the New York Heart Association mourn the passing of Joseph Schluger, M.D., former Board President. Through his dedication and commitment, he helped establish the New York Heart Association as a major force in addressing t
 STEVENS-Carleton H. III, 53, of Hamden, CT., died May 15, 2000. The cause of death was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Lou Gehrig's disease which he had for over four years. Husband of Susan Swords Stevens, father of Virginia Stevens and Peter Swords Stevens. Also survived by his parents, 
 WILLIAMS-David. The Board of Directors, staff, & volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of David Williams, dearly loved father of Vaughn C. Williams, our valued Board member. As a lawyer and then as both a state and federal judge, he was a champion for justice his enti
 Harry J. Volk, a finance executive whose impact was felt as much in the world of philanthropy as in business, died at his Los Angeles home on Friday, according to his son Robert. He was 94. During a financial career that spanned more than three decades, he showed little patience for
 DROPKIN-Edward, CLU of Boca Raton FL, formerly of Westfield NJ. On May 15, 2000. Loving husband of Paula, father of Alan and Steven, father-in-law of Cantor Jessica Roskin, grandfather of Marni and Ariel. He was a mensch to all who knew him and he will be sorely missed.       
 GORDON-Arthur. Of Forest Hills, Queens. Loving husband of Alice Gordon (Buchwald). Caring father of Eric and Nancy. Devoted grandfather of Jacob and Keri. With wit and compassion, he enriched the lives of fellow New Yorkers for 81 years. Died peacefully May 14, 2000. He will live forever in
 LEBER-Leopold, M.D. On May 16, 2000. Husband of Edith Rosen Leber. Father of Dr. George B. and Yvonne Leber, Bernice K. Leber and David Rosenberg. Grandfather of Andrew and Melissa Leber and Aaron Rosenberg. Brother of Dr. Arthur and Lusia Leber. Uncle of Dr. Mark Leber. He and Edith surviv
 LEWIS-Rabbi Theodore N. The wise and dedicated Rabbi of Progressive Synagogue for many years. He guided and instilled in each of us a deep love for Judaism. May he rest in peace. The Harvey Garner family       
 McALONEY-Michael. Actor, Director, Producer. On May 16 at the Actor's Fund Home, Englewood, NJ. He appeared in numerous plays and television programs including Witness for the Prosecution, The Hostile Witness and others. He directed and produced plays throughout the world including his nati
 ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council and staff are deeply saddened by the passing of Rodman C. Rockefeller, our longtime friend and colleague. Rodman served on the Board of the Museum from 1989 to 1996, was an active member o
 SHIELDS-Walker E., Sr. Died peacefully at age 93 on May 8, 2000 in Palm Beach, Fl. Dorothy Henderson Shields, his wife since 1988, also a resident of Palm Beach for many years, died on March 22, 2000. Miriam Stevenson Shields, his wife of 50 years and mother of his son, Walker E. Shields, J
 STRAUS-Alexander H. Of Southbury, CT. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. On May 15th. Husband of Mary Ellen (Simon). Father of James, Patti and John (Diane). Grandfather of Alexis, Johnny and Jessie. Lt. Commander Straus served in the U.S. Navy aboard the George E. Badger and Daly from 1940-1945. 
 ESPEUT-Norman W. On May 18, 1993 of the Bronx. In loving memory. Still sadly missed by 5 children, his mother Una Espeut of Jamaica, W.I., sister Pam of Jamaica, Queens. We will always love you       
 Paul BartelPaul Bartel, a director, screenwriter and actor whose taste for farce, black humor and social satire was reflected in films like ''Eating Raoul,'' ''Death Race 2000'' and ''Scenes From the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills,'' died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 and
 W. D. McHardy, one of the world's leading Hebrew scholars and an important member of two teams that translated the Bible into British English, died on April 9 in Cullen, Scotland. He was 88. Mr. McHardy was one of 40 scholars who created the New English Bible, the first totally new 
 F. Barton Harvey Jr., who was managing partner, chairman and chief executive of the Baltimore investment firm that became Alex. Brown & Sons Inc., died on Monday at his home in Baltimore County, Md. He was 79. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his son Jack L
 Frederick Donald Coggan, a former archbishop of Canterbury and the first spiritual head of the Church of England to support the ordination of women, died on Wednesday night in a nursing home in southern England. He died after a long illness, according to a statement from Lambeth Palace, off
 Michel Kazan, who gave society and entertainment figures the bouffant hairdo and created the coiffures for the models of several fashion designers, died Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Inspired by historical styles, Mr. Kazan broug
 Murray Koenig, a retired judge of Bronx Criminal Court and later acting justice of New York State Supreme Court, died on Saturday in Miami Beach. A former resident of the Bronx, he was 85 and had lived in Aventura, Fla., since retiring from the bench in 1986. Judge Koenig attended C
 BEERBOHM-Bertram, Dr./PhD. Age 76. Survived by his wife Sylvia and sister and brother-in-law Mallie and Marvin Sandberg. Bert counseled patients at the Veterans Administration Hospital. He will be sorely missed by all.       
 BERLIN-Brian. With profound sorrow we extend our condolences to Renee and Mark, our long-time members on the death of their beloved son Brian, a former Bar Mitzvah at the Shelter Rock Jewish Center. May God give comfort to his brothers Bobby, and Steven and to the entire family. We are with
 CHERNOBELSKY - Katherine. The Department of Surgery of Maimonides Medical Center expresses its profound sorrow on the sudden and tragic passing of Katherine Chernobelsky, daughter of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Leonid Chernobelsky, and his wife Kira. Members of the Department, colleagues an
 KRIEGER-Jerome H. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Arlene, his son Aaron and his entire family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President KRIEGER-Jerry H. On May 16, 2000, f
 LEVINE-Alan, 50, of Atlanta, GA, died May 17, 2000. He is survived by his wife Cathy Levine, children, Sarah and Joshua Levine; sister and brother-in-law, Jill Levine Curt and Seymour Curt, Bellmore, NY; and father, Marvin Levine, Boca Raton, FL. Funeral in Atlanta today at 12:00 noon at Ar
 MANES-Joseph F. at his residence, Croton-on-Hudson, New York. Beloved by his wife Helen, his son David J., his daughter Victoria E. and his four grandchildren and three sisters. A private Catholic Mass was held on May 5, 2000. Mr. Manes practiced Law for fifty years and served as Town Justi
 POPOVITS-Esther. On May 18, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Charles Popovits. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Dr. Jesse and Charlotte Ellman and Dr. Bruce and Judith Gibard. Dear sister of Bert Pollens. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother of fourteen. POPOVITS-Esther. Chi
 ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Boards of Directors and the staffs of the Americas Society and the Council of the Americas mourn the passing of a good friend and fellow Board member, Rodman C. Rockefeller, who was a vital personality, deeply committed to the betterment of inter-American relations
 SALSITZ-Felicia. The Physicians and staff of The Department of Medicine of Beth Israel Medical Center extend deepest sympathies to our friend and colleague Edwin Salsitz, MD, Director of The Methadone Medical Maintenance Program over the passing of his beloved mother Felicia. Our thoughts a
 SHAFTEL-Oscar H. On May 10, 2000, at age 88, after a long illness. Father of Anthony, Ann of Halifax NS, & Eve Shaftel; grandfather of Tad, Holly, Kelly, Jay, & Claire; brother of Rosalind Lerman & the late Sidney Shaftel. Predeceased by his wife, Ruth Marra Shaftel. Brother-in-law of Jeann
 STRAUS-Alexander H. Of Southbury, CT. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. On May 15th. Husband of Mary Ellen (Simon). Father of James, Patti and John (Diane). Grandfather of Alexis, Johnny and Jesse. Lt. Commander Straus served in the U.S. Navy aboard the George E. Badger and Daly from 1940-1945. H
 ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Phelps Memorial Hospital community mourns the passing of Rodman C. Rockefeller, who was a dedicated friend and counselor to the Hospital for many years. Mr. Rockefeller was a member of the Hospital's Board of Directors throughout the 1990's, serving on the Planning
 Dr. Richard Friederich Arens, a mathematician steeped in abstruse theories and abstractions, died on May 3 at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 81 and a resident of Los Angeles. The cause was a stroke, said the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Arens worked for 42 year
 Abner Levin, a music connoisseur and a former geAbner Levinneral manager of Sam Goody's record store in Manhattan, died on May 12 at a convalescent home in Hilo, Hawaii. He was 88. In 1948, at the dawn of the era of the long-playing record, Mr. Levin joined Sam Goody's to manage its
 Dr. Alexander Sandor Nadas, who trained generations of pediatrDr. Alexander Sandor Nadasic cardiologists at Children's Hospital in Boston and at Harvard Medical School, died on Tuesday at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 86. Dr. Nadas, a longtime former resident of Wellesley, Mass.
 Cesare Valletti, a lyric tenor whose performances Cesare Vallettiwere praised for their refinement and expressivity but who left opera in 1968 to run a family business that made him wealthy, died on Saturday in Genoa, Italy. He was 77 and lived in Milan. Walter Price, a friend of th
 Harlin Quist, a publisher of sophisticated childrenHarlin Quist's books, died last Saturday at the home of a niece in Minneapolis. He was 69. He was suffering from myasthenia  gravis and complications from a recent hip replacement, said Clare Zupetz, a niece. Mr. Quist maint
 John C. Sawhill, a former president of New York University who advised three presideJohn C. Sawhillnts on energy policy and for the last decade of his life was president and chief executive of the Nature Conservancy, died on Thursday at a hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 63 and lived in Was
 KLEIN-Ludolf. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 RAMOS-Paul. The Ryan Community Health Network is deeply saddened by the sudden loss of Paul Ramos. For the past two decades, we worked together in the struggle to provide affordable, quality health services to our patients. He was a tireless advocate for the underserved in our communities. 
 SAWHILL-John C. New York University mourns the passing of its 12th President, John Sawhill. He was a man of vision, wisdom and wide-ranging talents. He took office during difficult times, but through his genius for finance and administration, he was able to put the University on a sound foo
 WECHSLER-Dr. Herman, on May 18, 2000, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Devoted father of Michael and Joyce, and Robert and Sally. Proud grandfather of Rabbi Deborah, Steven, Stuart and Stacey, Daniel, Lisa, Jay, Jordan, and Matthew. Past President of the Genesis Hebrew Center,
 Robert W. Stone, an actor and teacher, died on May 11 in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Stone, who was professionally known as Robinson Stone, appeared on Broadway in ''Othello'' with Paul Robeson, ''Cyrano de Bergerac'' with Jose Ferrer, ''Macbeth'' with Michael Re
 Jean-Pierre Rampal, the French-born flutist who was the first virtuoso on his instrument to enjoy enormous success and celebrity as a touring soloist and who almost single-handedly took the flute to new levels of popularity in the decades after World War II, died yesterday at his home in Pa
 CHOA-Andrew. International banker and advisor, died on May 17th, after a long illness. He is survived by France Berveiller Choa, his 3 children and five grandchildren. Funeral service will be held at 9AM, Wednesday, May 24, St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Ave. In lieu of flowers, tha family h
 DUGAN-Edward F. 65. Investment banker. Owner of Dugan Associates, Inc., an investment banking firm serving entertainment and media companies, died on May 19, 2000. The cause was complications from cancer, which he had been fighting for the past five years. At the time of his death, Mr. Duga
 DUNDON-Frank (Milo). Born Hells Kitchen, New York City, 1942. Died May 15, at age 57, in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Loving life partner of Joyce Kravets, father of Donna, Bryan and Sandie Dundon, Marc, Robin and Susie Kravets, grandfather of Jahmila, Atiba, Michi, Taki, Ari, Melissa and Elijah. 
 KRAMER-Dr. Gerald M. Entered into Rest, May 18, of Swampscott, MA, renowned periodontist and teacher. Beloved husband of 55 years to Sylvia (Sher) Kramer. Devoted father of Lloyd Kramer of NYC, and Leslie Kramer of San Francisco, CA. Loving brother of Hilton Kramer of NYC, and the late Phil
 LEVIN-Abner, 88, Music Retailer and Critic. Abner Levin, General Manager of Sam Goody's from its less than auspicious origins in a Ninth Avenue loft building in the early 1950's through its expansion to a half-dozen major metropolitan area outlets by the mid 1960's, died in Hilo, Hawaii on 
 MYERS-Professor Charles A., an expert in labor economics, management, and education and development, died April 2, 2000, age 86, in Naples, Florida. Mr. Myers was a professor of economics and management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for 42 years and author of more than 85 boo
 PRATT-Lawrence Southwick. Retired partner of Wilkie Farr & Gallagher and amateur jazz musician. Died April 28 in Rye New York. He was ninety-three years old. He lived in New York City and Squirrel Island Maine. He leaves his wife, Emily, his son, Lawrence Spencer Pratt, and two grandsons, S
 RAMOS-Paul. On May 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Roni. Father of Eva, Pilar, Sabrina, Yvette and Paul, Jr. Founding Director of the Betances Health Unit. Funeral Services Monday, May 22 at 11 AM at The Old First Reformed Church, 126 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. In lieu of flowers, please se
 RUNSDORF-Herbert. On May 19, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of James and his partner Tazuko. He will be deeply missed. Visiting Sunday, 7-9 PM. Service Monday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SCHULTHEIS-Dr. Daniel. of Manhasset and Shelter Island, NY. on May 16, 2000. Pioneer in the field of Dermatology. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Prager). Devoted father of George, Hilary, Lesley, Jennifer and John. Loving fatherin-law of Ronald and grandfather of Zachary and Valyrea. Dear bro
 STADLER-Albert. Of NYC, and Bennington, VT, died May 16, 2000. Beloved husband of Mari. Father of Helen and Valerie. Father-inlaw of John. Adored grandfather of Claire, Julia and Meghan. Loving brother to Jack and loving brother-in-law to Betty. Loving uncle to Anne and Ric, John and Nomi. 
 STONE-Robert W. (Robinson Stone). Actor/professor, age 81, resident of NYC, native of Oak Park, IL., passed away May 11, 2000. Son of Mr. and Mrs. S.O. Stone and brother of Virginia Stone Holland. Loved uncle of Nancy and Charles Arends, Gay and Charles Mead and Sandra and Stephen Nelson. G
 SUITER-James Evans Butler. Born September 8, 1914, at Williamsport, PA, to Albert Ezra and Hannah Rickard Suiter. Died May 7, 2000, at Monroe County, Georgia Hospital after a brief illness. He received his Bachelor of Laws Degree from John Marshall College of the Rutgers University in 1938.
 WECHSLER-Dr. Herman, on May 18, 2000, at the age of 90. Beloved husband of Rosalind. Devoted father of Michael and Joyce, and Robert and Sally. Proud grandfather of Rabbi Deborah, Steven, Stuart and Stacey, Daniel, Lisa, Jay, Jordan, and Matthew. Past President of the Genesis Hebrew Center,
 DAVIDSON-Nathan J. On May 21, 1999. Thank you God for the gift of his life-a joy to so many-an inestimable treasure to me. KMD       
 Robert Burr, a stage actor who played many of Shakespeare's most famous roles, died on May 13 in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was emphysema, said his son, Robert Jr. With a chiseled jaw and a sturdy physique, Mr. Burr was a top-rated amateur box
 Roger A. Morse, who turned a childhood interest in beekeeping into an encyclopedic knowledge that made him one of the best-known apiculturists in the world, died May 12 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 72. Dr. Morse, an entomology professor at Cornell University for more than 40 y
 David Bretherton, an Oscar-winning film editor, died on May 11 in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Bretherton, whose father was the director Howard Bretherton, edited some 50 films. He won an Academy Award for his work on the 1972 film adaptation of ''Cabaret,'' starring Liza Minnelli an
 David B. Guralnik, a lexicographer whose definitions of the American language guided tens of millions of people who thumbed through the dictionaries he edited, died on Friday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 79. He had colon cancer, his daughter, Eve Harrington, said.    
 Kermit I. Lansner, a member of the trio of editors who remade Newsweek magazine in the early 1960's and by doing so helped to shape the direction of weekly newsmagazines, and who later served as Newsweek's editor, died of complications from lung cancer on Saturday at New York University Hos
 AREFIN-Tony (Abed). Ogilvy & Mather Advertising mourns the sudden and tragic loss of our friend and partner Tony Arefin, 38, on Friday, May 19. He was an exceptional creative talent who has left us a legacy of brilliant work ranging from award-winning advertising and design to celebrated mu
 BANGSER-Lawrence S., 78, longtime senior partner in the law firm of Bangser, Klein, Rocca and Blum, died on May 20th. Wonderful husband of Phyllis; cherished father of Hank (Sara), Mike (Deb), and Maggie (Rakesh); doting grandfather of Jill, Marc, Matt, Greg, and Abby. Respected attorney, t
 DWYER-Honorable Thomas W. On May 19, 2000, at age 66. Nassau County District Court Judge for 14 years. Lifelong resident of Nassau County, graduate of Chaminade High, St. John's University and St. John's Law School. Beloved and devoted husband to Mary Ita (nee Feeney). Proud and loving fath
 HURST-Milton Albert. On May 20, 2000, 81 years old. Son of the late Clarence and Sadye Jonas, husband of Ruth, father of Marc and Molly, and Mitchell, grandfather of Adam and Jonah, brother of Mildred Siegel. A Veteran of WW II, bearer of the Purple Heart. Longtime resident of Woodmere, Lon
 LEVIN-Abner, 88, Music Retailer and Critic. Abner Levin, General Manager of Sam Goody's from its less than auspicious origins in a Ninth Avenue loft building in the early 1950's through its expansion to a half-dozen major metropolitan area outlets by the mid 1960's, died in Hilo, Hawaii on 
 OPPENHEIMER-Winfried H. May 19, in Rochester. Born: Frankfurt a/m, 1905. Stockbroker, survived by his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Funeral services: Tuesday, May 23, 10 AM, Larchmont Temple. Contributions: Washingtonville Housing Alliance or The Jewish Home of Rochester.
 RAMPAL-Jean-Pierre. Decades of golden music making and joy for the world and for us are JeanPierre Rampal's gifts which will always be in our hearts and memories. His joie de vivre, gentle humor and grace will be greatly missed, and his incomparable dedication to performing and to the teach
 RUNSDORF-Herbert. On May 19, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of James and his partner Tazuko. He will be deeply missed. Visiting Sunday, 7-9 PM. Service Monday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SLIFKIN-Morrie. Of Ardsley on Hudson, formerly of Tarrytown, died of cancer on Saturday, May 20, 2000, at home. He was 89. Judge Slifkin worked as a Supreme Court Judge for the State of New York in the 9th Judicial District. He was with the 9th Judicial District for 17 years before retiring
 WEISBURG-Lawrence, 78, died on May 20, of melanoma. Beloved husband of Elaine Greene, father of Henry Weisburg and Lisa Donneson, William Weisburg and Pamela Wells, and grandfather of Jessica, Emily, Madeline, and Marina. Funeral Tuesday, May 23, 10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 The Rev. Ruben Dario Colon, who founded one of the first Lutheran churches in New York City to conduct services in Spanish, died May 5 in Orlando, Fla. He was 76 and lived in Sebring, Fla. The cause was lymphatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Colon was chairman of the Puerto 
 William Dale Jennings, a novelist, playwright and pioneer of the American gay rights movement, died of respiratory failure on May 11 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. He had moved to the area after graduation from high school in Denver more than six decades ago wit
 William Charles Segal, a magazine publisher whose search for self-understanding led him to paint his own portrait over and over for about 60 years as part of his immersion in philosophies and Eastern religions, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 95 and lived in New York and Paris. 
 Andrew Choa, an international banker and professional adviser, died on May 17 in a hospital in Mount Vernon, Va. He was 76. His family said he had had vascular disease for a year. Mr. Choa came to New York City from Hong Kong in 1945 with a scholarship to attend Fordham Univ
 Frenchy Bordagaray, who staged a one-man mustache revival in the major leagues while playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1936, becoming the personification of the Daffy Dodger, died April 13 at a nursing home in Ventura, Calif. He was 90. Like most of Depression America, the Dodgers
 Mark Reynolds Hughes, the multimillionaire founder of Herbalife International, a nutritional supplement company that has been controversial for both its products and sales methods, died last weekend in his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 44. His death appeared to be from natural cause
 BANGSER-Lawrence S., 78, longtime senior partner in the law firm of Bangser, Klein, Rocca and Blum, died on May 20th. Wonderful husband of Phyllis; cherished father of Hank (Sara), Mike (Deb), and Maggie (Rakesh); doting grandfather of Jill, Marc, Matt, Greg, and Abby. Respected attorney, t
 BLOCH-Ephraim F. Age 85. Died in Palm Beach, FL. May 21, 2000. Extraordinarly beloved father of Michelle B. Bloch. Beloved father of Lawrence C. Bloch. Beloved of Joyce Cutty Bloch. Also survived by his son-in-law John Cuseo, his grandchildren Harry Franklin, Maggie Rose and Aaron Michael B
 BUSH-Julian S. 84. A retired Senior Estate Partner with the former Shea and Gould Law Firm in New York, died Tuesday, May 16 in Charleston, South Carolina. Mr. Bush was born in New York City, the son of Joachim F. Bush and Isabel Rosenthall Bush. He was an army veteran of W.W.II. He was a g
 CHEN-Harry. The Board of Directors, staff and clients of Hamilton Madison House are saddened by the loss of Harry Chen, our valued Board member. As a Board member since 1979, Harry was committed to the thousands of clients served by the Hamilton-Madison House. We extend our deepest condolen
 DUNHAM-William P., 82, died at his winter residence in Naples, Florida on Tuesday, May 16, 2000. He was also a resident of St. Huberts, New York and East Orleans, Massachusetts. He will be missed and loved by his wife Edie, his children & their spouses Sally Taylor, Bill Jr. and Nelie Dunha
 FINKEL-Lawrence S., Ed.D. The College of New Rochelle Community records with sorrow the death of Dr. Larry Finkel, Associate Professor, Graduate School, and Chair of the College Senate. An indefatigable teacher, instructor, and administrator, he devoted his considerable talents to the devel
 GOLDBERG-Alan L., M.D. 79 years old. Born in the Bronx, NY, April 22, 1921. Died May 20, 2000 in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Muriel. Loving father of Judy, Louise and Eve. Much loved grandfather of Phoebe, Megan, Sean, Zach and Simon. Grew up in the Bronx. Graduated Evander Childs 
 LOBRANO-Alexander Flick at age 70 in Greenville, South Carolina. Son of the late Gustave Stubbs Lobrano and Dorothy Jean Flick Lobrano. Survived by his sister Dorothy Lobrano Guth, his sons Alexander Flick Lobrano, Jr., John Drake Lobrano and Grant Colville Lobrano and his daughter, Elizabe
 MEEHAN-John Thomas (Jack) of Dublin, Ireland and formerly Brooklyn, New York, May 20, 2000 (suddenly) dearly beloved husband of Therese. Sadly missed by his brother James; dear friend of Fr. Patrick, P.J., Robert and Aidan. Removal from Fanagans Funeral Home, Lr. Main St. Dundrum, Dublin to
 PORTNOY-Allen S. Esq. Of Leonia, NJ. 53. On May 20, 2000. Loving husband of Claudia. Devoted dad to Karina, Christina, Stephen and Sophie. Loving brother of Pauline Spirito. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to Temple Adas Emuno, 254 Broad Ave., Leonia, NJ 07605 or 
 RAMPAL-Jean-Pierre. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall note with deep sadness the passing of Jean-Pierre Rampal. One of the greatest flutists of the 20th Century and one of the greatest musical spirits of our time, he was a constant and beloved presence at Carnegie Hall, with 
 SERMAN-Michael. Passed away peacefully on May 20th, 2000 at the age of 84. Dear husband of Laura. Father of Michael & Linda S. Fuld. Loving grandfather of Jonathan Fuld and Laura and Michael. Dad was a dynamic player in life. He was honorable, generous and proud. Dad was a man of his word. 
 STEINER-Zoltan. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board, and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Zoltan Steiner. Sincere condolences are extended to his son, Henry Steiner, M.D., distinguished Director of Surgery and Secretary of the Medical Board
 VASA-Ralph L., O.D., Captain USN, Ret. passed away suddenly May 14, 2000. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, he was predeceased by first wife Irene E. Jarvis Vasa, second wife Natalie Flatow Vasa, and brother Arnold Vasa. He is survived by brother and sister-in-law, Harold and Mildred
 WALDROP-Gideon W. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Gideon Waldrop, Dean of the School from 1961 to 1986 and Acting President from 1983 to 1984. An accomplished composer and distinguished educator, he helped shape the programs in drama, dance and music that exist to this day a
 WEISBURG-Lawrence, 78, died on May 20, of melanoma. Beloved husband of Elaine Greene, father of Henry Weisburg and Lisa Donneson, William Weisburg and Pamela Wells, and grandfather of Jessica, Emily, Madeline, and Marina. Funeral Tuesday, May 23, 10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 Sir John Gielgud, one of the great actors of the English stage who enthralled audiences for more than 70 years with his eloquent voice and consummate artistry, died on Sunday at his home near Aylesbury,  northwest of London. He was 96. He was the last survivor of that triumvirate of
 Benjamin (Buzzy) Drootin, a Russian-born jazz drummer whose career spanned a half-century and who played with many leading jazz musicians, died on Sunday at the Actors Fund Retirement and Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 80. Mr. Drootin's family left Russia for the United Stat
 John Russell Blandford, a retired lawyer and former chief counsel to the House Armed Services Committee, died on May 16 at his home in Seabrook, S.C., after a long illness. He was 82. A 1946 graduate of Yale Law School, Mr. Blandford joined the legal staff of the Armed Services Comm
 Lee G. Brewster, whose Greenwich Village boutique became a bazaar for transvestites from Avenue A to Abu Dhabi, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Antoinette Scapinato, a friend and employee. His 5,000-square-foot superstor
 Oscar H. Shaftel, who was one of the original faculty members at Queens College when it opened in 1937 and was fired by the city in 1953 after he refused to answer a Senate subcommittee's questions about Communist affiliation in academia, died at his Queens home on May 10. He was 88.       
 BANGSER-Lawrence S. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened by the passing of Lawrence S. Bangser, the husband of Phyllis B. Bangser, a devoted member of the agency's, Rita J. and Stanley H. Kaplan House Divisional Committee. We express our 
 DUNNE-James J., on May 21, 2000 in White Plains. Born on April 24, 1920 in Staten Island to Mary (Swain) and James Joseph Dunne. Mr. Dunne was the Vice Chairman of the Board at Cluett & Peabody. He was predeceased by his first wife Ann in 1974. Mr. Dunne is survived by his second wife Barba
 GIEGERICH-Joseph F. Of Eastchester, NY, formerly of the Bronx, retired Battalion Chief, 18th Battalion, New York City Fire Department. Husband of Mary Aileen and the late Claire Giegerich. Father of Stephen, Thomas and Joseph. Grandfather of Marianne, Elizabeth, James, Matthew, Christine, E
 HANSON-Dr. E. Lawrence. Of Newport, Rhode Island, at age 64, after a prolonged illness. Born in Palmer, Nebraska. Husband of Jacqueline; father of Leslie Jill of New York and Lauren Polly of Boston; son of Robert and Eleanor of San Diego, California. Instructor and Fellow at New York Univer
 MONGE-Joseph P. On Saturday, May 20, 2000 at Rancho Santa Fe, California from pneumonia at age 88. North American business executive and humanitarian. Rancho Santa Fe community leader since retirement in 1977 as Vice Chairman of International Paper Company and Chairman of Canadian Internati
 OSHINSKY-Elihu, on May 18 in New Brunswick, N.J., at age 92. Beloved husband of the late Sophie; devoted father of Stephen and David and daughters-in-law Carolyn and Jane; loving grandfather of Joshua, Allison, Sarah, Matthew, Efrem, and Ari. A school teacher and principal in New York City 
 PIORE-Emanuel R. The Board of Trustees and the Ethical Culture Fieldston School community sadly note the death of Emanuel R. Piore, Class of 1926, a former Trustee. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Nora Kahn Piore, his son Michael J. Piore, his daughters Jane Piore Gilman, C
 RAMOS-Paul. It is with profound sorrow that the Board and staff of the AIDS Service Center of Lower Manhattan mourn the loss of our beloved Board Chair, Paul Ramos. He was a staunch advocate, a powerful, compassionate, wise and giving man. As a founding Board member of ASC and fearless lead
 RAMPAL-Jean-Pierre. With the loss of Jean-Pierre Rampal, we have not only lost a great musician and musical enthusiast beyond compare, but a man who loved life. Given the closeness of our 50 year friendship, this is the loss of a brother. His happy exuberance will remain with us all. Isaac 
 SERMAN-Michael. The Board of Governors and members of the Boca Rio Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Michael Serman, beloved husband of Laura. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Boca Rio Golf Club Ira J. Gelb, M.D., President SERMAN-Mich
 SHELDON-Gertrude. On May 24, 2000, of Bay Shore, N.Y. Wife of the late Charles Sheldon. Loving mother of Stuart and Robert Sheldon, also survived by his 4 grandchildren & 6 great grandchildren. There will be a graveside service today 11:00A.M. at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, N.Y. Memor
 WALDROP-Gideon W. The Manhattan School of Music mourns the passing of Gideon Waldrop, who served as the School's President from 1986 to 1989. We appreciated and admired his contributions as a musician, composer and conductor. Mr. Waldrop was a respected leader and advocate of arts education
 Robert T. MacDonald, a former publisher of The International Herald Tribune, died on Friday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 69 and lived in Sarasota. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. MacDonald, a former executive vice president of The New York Herald Tribune, was named pu
 Don Gifford, a cultural historian and authority on James Joyce, died on Monday at a hospital in North Adams, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Williamstown, Mass. Mr. Gifford retired in 1984 from Williams College, where he was a professor of English and of American studies and had taught
 Ellis Kohs, a composer known for works in which contemporary harmonic ideas were combined with the structural elegance of Classical forms, died at a nursing home in Los Angeles on May 17. He was 84. Mr. Kohs was born in Chicago on May 12, 1916, and grew up in San Francisco, where he
 Gerald M. Kramer, a retired professor and former chairman of periodontology in the Boston University School of Dental Medicine, died on May 18 at a hospital in Boston after a long illness. He was 77 and lived in Swampscott, Mass. Dr. Kramer practiced periodontics, treating the bone 
 Gideon W. Waldrop, a composer and administrator, who served for 24 years as dean of the Juilliard School of Music and for nearly three years as president of the Manhattan School of Music, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Waldrop was born on Sept. 2, 1919, on a
 Morris Harrell, an influential Texas lawyer and former president of the American Bar Association, died on Tuesday in Dallas, where he lived. He was 80. Mr. Harrell was also a former president of the Dallas Bar Association, the State Bar of Texas, the American College of Trial Lawyer
 Norman Drachler, superintendent of the Detroit school system during its most volatile period in the late 1960's and a champion of integrating both the administration and student body, died on Saturday at a hospital in Phoenix. He was 88 and lived in Phoenix. ''He believed in
 ALTMAN-Gregory Hayes, of Chappaqua, New York died as a result of injuries sustained in a traffic accident on May 23, 2000 in Springfield, Mass. He was born on July 23, 1974 in Washington, DC to Theodore and Eleanor (Stabler) Altman. He was 25 years old. He attended Chappaqua Schools and gra
 BANGSER-Lawrence S. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Bangser Klein Rocca and Blum, LLP, mourn the loss of our friend, counsel and former partner. We are proud to have had him as our role model and as our leader for much of the 52 years we practised law together. He had great c
 FORD-Charles E., Ed.D. Dr. Charles Ford will be remembered with gratitude by New York Medical College for his years of dedicated service as Dean of the Graduate School of Health Sciences, the Graduate School of Basic Medical Sciences and most recently, Academic Development. He was admired a
 GLICK-Ira S. Passed away on May 22, 2000. He was born in Chicago in 1922, attended The University of Chicago and served in The US Air Force 1942-45. After moving to New York, he founded and was President of Glick & Lorwin, a management and educational consultant firm, from 1955 to 1992, whe
 GOLDBERG-Alan L., M.D. The Bronx County Medical Society expresses profound sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and past President, Alan L. Goldberg, M.D. His unselfish devotion to his patients, his students and his fellow physicians will always be remembered. We shall miss our coll
 HIRSHLEIFER-Irving, M.D. Resident of Palm Springs, CA, passed away May 23, 2000 at his residence. Dr. Hirshleifer was a Battalion Surgeon during W.W. II & practiced medicine in New York from 1945-1971. He was former Head of Cardiology at Kings Co. Down State Hospital in Brooklyn & a member 
 RICK-Manuel. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member, Manuel Rick. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Gladys and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Martin Kay, President       
 SASSONE-Frank Paul, Brother, C.F.C., age 66, died suddenly on May 22 in Lima, Peru. Predeceased by his beloved parents Frank and Elizabeth Sassone, his sister Marcellus, and brother-inlaw John Jarkowsky, he is survived by his brother Joseph of Huntington Bay, NY, his sisters, Sr. Bernadette
 WINKLER-John, 91, of Rossmoor, Monroe Twp., NJ, passed away Sunday at home. Formerly of Brooklyn and Manhattan. Beloved by his wife of 59 years, Marjorie Mills Winkler; his daughter Nancy Winkler Naftulin; his son-in-law, Lawrence Jeffrey Naftulin; and his granddaughter, Julia McLeod Naftul
 Erich Mielke, the former head of the dreaded East German security agency known as the Stasi, has died at 92, German officials said yesterday. The daily Kurier said Mr. Mielke had died May 21 in a home for the elderly in his native Berlin. From 1957 until the Berlin Wall fell in 1989
 BEIL-Lawrence. On May 25, 2000. Devoted husband of Carole Brinker Beil. Beloved father of Barry and Judi, Norman and Carol, Susan, Christopher and Randi Rose, Jonathan Rose, Mark Brinker and David Brinker. Loving brother ofSheldon and Barbara, Audrey and Edward. Adored grandfather of Elizab
 BOCKMAN-Sigurd, 89, passed away Thursday morning, May 25, at his home in Annapolis, MD. He was a noted classical clarinetist and teacher whose career spanned 52 years. He played with the Minneapolis Symphony, the Pittsburgh Symphony and the NBC Symphony. He was also an original member of Le
 COLEMAN-Martin S. On May 24, 2000, at age 86. Former President and Chairman of the Board of the Mosler Safe Company. Survived by Janet, his wife of 60 years; his children Ann and Fred Lynn, John and Linda Coleman, Nancy and Matthew Mintzis; his grandsons Jeff Lynn and Julian Mintzis; his ne
 FREE-Benjamin J. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the passing of Benjamin J. Free of Palm Beach, Fla., an outstanding leader and long-time supporter. Taking to heart the needs of Technion students, he established with his wife, Florence, the 
 SHAPIRO-Rosalind. On May 25, at age 68. Loving wife of Morton. Devoted mother to Laurence, and Mara & Kenneth James. Cherished grandmother of Brian and Scottie. Sister to Sidney. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to the American Lung Association. Services will be Sunday, 10 AM, at Ri
 THIERIOT-Charles H. of Locust Valley, LI, on May 24, 2000, age 85. Beloved husband of the late Edna T. Thieriot, devoted father of Charles H. Thieriot, Jr. of Los Angeles, CA, Julia D. Thieriot of Round Hill, VA and Frances T. Thieriot of Santa Monica, CA. Step-father of Jeff Carpenter and 
 TOBLIN-Al. On May 22, 2000. Resident of Vista, CA and distinguished Army Veteran of WW2. Beloved husband of Teddy for 54 years. Adored father, cherished by his children Elyse, Murray, Ann and Alan. Beloved by his grandchildren Rory, Robin and Aimee. Adored by his great-grandchildren Austin 
 WALKER-Randolph. 71, on May 22, 2000 of New York, NY. Beloved father of Katharine Hoffman; father-in-law of Richard Hoffman; grandfather of Michael & Steven Hoffman. Brother of Gerard Walker and Virginia Johnson; and dear friend of Stephen Morello. Memorial service on May 26 at 6:00 PM at C
 WANGEMAN-Frank G. The members of the Waldorf=Astoria Distinguished Alumni note with deep sorrow the passing of our founder, Frank G. Wangeman. He exemplified the principles of our traditions, that is service, integrity, excellence and leadership. His vision and commitment to the Alumni were
 Dr. Seymour Perry, a cancer specialist who became an expert in evaluating medical technology, died on May 19 at his home in Washington. He was 78. The cause of death was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Perry, who also served briefly as an assistant surgeon general, wor
 Yevgeny Vasilevich Khrunov, an early Russian astronaut who took part in the first linkup of two manned spacecraft high above the earth, has died at the age of 67. In reporting his death from Moscow on Tuesday, the news agency Itar-Tass said that several of his fellow astronauts had gathered
 Francis Lederer, a Czech-born actor whose dark good looks made him a suave, continental character in films from the silent era through the 1950's and who continued to teach weekly acting classes in Los Angeles until just a few weeks ago, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. 
 COLEMAN-Martin S. The NYU Medical Center community mourns the passing of Martin Coleman, a longtime friend and benefactor of New York University School of Medicine and NYU Hospitals Center. In his lifetime he exhibited a generosity that will continue to benefit those who receive care at the
 HAAS-Carl E., 87, of Sarasota, FL, on May 5. Formerly of Jamaica, Great Neck and Manhattan, NY. Beloved husband for 60 years of Roslyn (nee Schachne). Much loved and loving father of Edward J. of Rhinebeck, NY and David S. of Riverdale, NY, grandfather of Gregory J. of Boston, MA, and Eliza
 SPIEGEL-Leon. Passed away peacefully on Tuesday 23rd May 2000 in Scottsdale, Arizona. Aged 74 years. He is survived and greatly missed by his wife Amanda, her son Brad and family, his daughters Leslie and husband Bob, Cheryl and her son Justin and friend Lee John Glatz of Tuscon. Funeral wi
 Richard E. Nolan, a lawyer who represented the Roman Catholic Church in some of the most important court cases involving religion and government in the last 40 years, died Monday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. He died at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan of complications from a s
 Dr. Seymour S. Kety, a major figure in the field of biological psychiatry whose contributions revolutionized the study of schizophrenia and other major mental illnesses and yielded novel methods for studying the human brain at work, died on Thursday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 84.
 Tony Arefin, a self-taught graphic designer and art director of periodicals, art catalogs and advertisements who was responsible for influential ad designs like the handwritten look of the current I.B.M. ''magic box'' campaign, died on May 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 3
 Al Simon, who helped create some of early television's most successful sitcoms as well as the technical wherewithal to save them on high-quality film for summer reruns and syndication, died on Tuesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 88. Mr. Simon joined the world of television in 19
 Edward L. Bernds, one of Hollywood's first sound effects producers and a director of comedy shorts starring the Three Stooges, died on May 20 at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Bernds began his career as a radio operator in Chicago. He went to Hollywood in 1928 as a soun
 Frank G. Wangeman, one of the first hotel managers to integrate modern business management techniques with Old World attention to guests and a mentor to a generation of hotel managers, died Monday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 88. In his 39 years with the Hilton Hotels
 Kiyoshi Kuromiya, who was born in an internment camp for Japanese-Americans and spent much of his life battling for civil rights and relief for AIDS patients, died on May 10 in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 57. The cause was complications of AIDS. When Mr. Kuromiya wa
 ABRAMSON-Harold. In his 96th year on May 25, 2000. Beloved husband of Dorothy for 73 years. Loving father of Carol Sahn-Dorfman and Susan Schwartz. Dear fatherin-law of Robert R. Schwartz. Devoted grandfather ''Pop'' of Mitchell and Karen Sahn, Robert Sahn, Eric and Diane Schwartz, Amy and 
 BEIL-Larry. We remember a loving and caring friend. The Thursday Nighters BEIL-Lawrence. On May 25, 2000. Devoted husband of Carole Brinker Beil. Beloved father of Barry and Judi, Norman and Carol, Susan, Christopher and Randi Rose, Jonathan Rose, Mark Brinker and David Brinker. Lov
 COLEMAN-Martin S. On May 24, 2000, at age 86. Former President and Chairman of the Board of the Mosler Safe Company. Survived by Janet, his wife of 60 years; his children Ann and Fred Lynn, John and Linda Coleman, Nancy and Matthew Mintzis; his grandsons Jeff Lynn and Julian Mintzis; his ne
 FURST-Sidney S. The family mourns his passing on May 26, 2000. Beloved husband of Ina, and father of Jonathan, Daniel, Jed and predeceased by Seth. FURST-Sidney S. We of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund sadly record the death of Dr. Sidney S. Furst, our Professional 
 GOLDSTEIN-Irving, Queens College class of 1960, beloved member of the Board of Trustees of the Queens College Foundation since 1986. He served as Chairman of the Foundation from 1987 to 1991, when he became Chairman Emeritus. He was a devoted supporter of his alma mater, giving his leadersh
 HAAS-Carl E., 87, of Sarasota, FL, on May 5. Formerly of Jamaica, Great Neck and Manhattan, NY. Beloved husband for 60 years of Roslyn (nee Schachne). Much loved and loving father of Edward J. of Rhinebeck, NY and David S. of Riverdale, NY, grandfather of Gregory J. of Boston, MA, and Eliza
 RAFKIND-George J. 92, of New York City, NY. Chairman of the Board of Rafkind & Company, Inc., members of the New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange. Retired Chairman of Sunshine Mining Company, listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Survived by beloved son Arthur and daughter-i
 SCHWAB-Fred, 82, of 411 East 53 Street died on May 13, 2000. Mr. Schwab was born educated and resided in New York. He served in World War II as a photo journalist. He was a retired graphic illustrator for the New York Times and a freelance cartoonist. Mr. Schwab was the widower of Barbara F
 SHORR-Jay, M.D. A Memorial Service for Dr. Jay Shorr will be held on Sunday, June 4, at 4 PM, at The New York Psychoanalytic Society/Institute, 247 East 82nd St. Contributions in his memory may be sent to The New York Psychoanalytic Institute Foundation.       
 SPIEGEL-Leon. Passed away peacefully on Tuesday 23rd May 2000 in Scottsdale, Arizona. Aged 74 years. He is survived and greatly missed by his wife Amanda, her son Brad and family, his daughters Leslie and husband Bob, Cheryl and her son Justin and friend Lee John Glatz of Tuscon. Funeral wi
 THIERIOT-Charles H. of Locust Valley, LI, on May 24, 2000, age 85. Beloved husband of the late Edna T. Thieriot, devoted father of Charles H. Thieriot, Jr. of Los Angeles, CA, Julia D. Thieriot of Round Hill, VA and Frances T. Thieriot of Santa Monica, CA. Step-father of Jeff Carpenter and 
 WAGNER-J. Christopher. The Staff of the Environmental Sciences Laboratory of the Applied Science Institutes of The City University of New York notes with profound sorrow the sudden death of their esteemed and distinguished colleague on May 25th. in his home in Dorset, U.K. We share the grie
 WALKER-Randolph St. George. Manhattan Playhouse mourns the tragic loss of our cousin and colleague Randolph Walker. He brilliantly gave life to numerous, complex, sensitive roles, balancing consummate technique with emotional adventure, thrilling every audience. We miss you, Ranny. Diana Wa
 Maurice Richard, the charismatic star of the Montreal Canadiens through the 1940's and 1950's known as the Rocket, one of the most electrifying goal-scorers in National Hockey League history and a revered figure in French-speaking Canada, died yesterday in a hospital in Montreal. He was 78.
 Alfred LevittAlfred Levitt, a worldly American painter and photographer who rubbed shoulders with noted artists in his long life, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 105 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Levitt immigrated to New York from Ukraine in 1911 and became an artist aft
 DiGIORGIO-Joseph. On May 26, of New York City. Beloved brother of Helen DiLello and Salvator DiGiorgio; loving uncle of John, Jon, JoAnn, Christine and Nicole. Joe, whose work was viewed nationally, devoted his life to painting American landscapes. Reposing at Cusimano and Russo, 2005 West 
 FINK-Dr. Robert Alan. Age 50. Died May 27. He was born in Harrisburg, PA. Beloved son of Shirley Schwartz and the late Lloyd Fink. Loving father of Sunny and Loni. Devoted brother of Jay. Drowned in the waters of the Saint Lucie River. He was an emergency room physician for 22 years, last p
 FISHER-Justin R. On May 26, 2000 at age 91. Beloved husband of the late Shonnette and devoted father of the late Andrew. Survived by his grandchildren, Elizabeth Goodman and Edward Silverman; his daughter-in-law Linda Silverman and her husband Richard; his nephew Ross Fisher and other niece
 GIOSCIA-Nicolai, M.D. On May 25 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, at age 96. Medical degree Middlesex College of Brandeis University. Assistant Director of Creedmore State Hospital, Director of Nassau County Community Mental Health, founder of mental health clinic U.S. Virgin Islands, visiting consult
 HAAS-Carl E., 87, of Sarasota, FL, on May 5. Formerly of Jamaica, Great Neck and Manhattan, NY. Beloved husband for 60 years of Roslyn (nee Schachne). Much loved and loving father of Edward J. of Rhinebeck, NY and David S. of Riverdale, NY, grandfather of Gregory J. of Boston, MA, and Eliza
 KASS-Henry. 94. Beloved husband of 69 years of Sophie. Father of Lee and Allen Hilton, Lucille and John Wright, Linda and Ray Ehrlich. Grandfather of Marty and Susan, David, Richard and Jennifer, Barbara, Susan and Lane, Ian and Daniel. Great-grandfather of Brandon, Jason, Matthew, Perry an
 SUNSHINE-Howard F. Sarasota, FL, died May 25, 2000. Formerly of NYC. He retired after 35 years as vice president of real estate at Manfacturers Hanover Trust Co. Survivors are his wife, Beatrice; sister, Winifred Tighe of San Diego; several nieces and nephews. Private memorial service. Inur
 WALDMAN-Josh. Beloved son of Bonnie Waldman, Stuart Waldman and Liv Mann, brother of Peter Waldman and Lucas Mann, dear nephew, cousin and friend. Francophile, lover of ancient cultures, opera, literature and the joy of laughter, passed away suddenly on Wednesday, May 24. He was 33 years ol
 Richard M. BlochRichard M. Bloch, a pioneer in the development and design of digital computers, died of cancer on May 22  in Framingham, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Marlborough, Mass. As chief operations officer at Harvard University's Computation Laboratory in the 1940's, Mr. Bloc
 Maurice Richard, the charismatic star of the Montreal Canadiens through the 1940's and 1950's known as the Rocket, one of the most electrifying goal scorers in National Hockey League history and a revered figure in French-speaking Canada, died Saturday in a hospital in Montreal. He was 78. 
 Eric Turner, the Oakland Raiders defensive back who was a two-time All-Pro during his nine seasons in the National Football League, died Sunday at a hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 31. The cause was apparently complications of abdominal cancer, according to Craig Stevens, t
 COHEN-Joseph A. May 29, 2000. Devoted son of the late Pauline and Samuel Cohen, of Troy, NY. Beloved husband of Ellen. Adoring father of Julie and David. Dearest brother of Michael and Susan Cohen. Loving son-in-law of Cy and Barbara Leslie. Brother-in-law of Jane and Carol. Services Wednes
 FISHER-Justin R. On May 26, 2000 at age 91. Beloved husband of the late Shonnette and devoted father of the late Andrew. Dear brother of the late Herbert and Arthur. Survived by his grandchildren, Elizabeth Goodman and Edward Silverman; his daughter-in-law Linda Silverman and her husband Ri
 FRIEDMAN-Jim, 73, on May 28, 2000 in New York City. Much loved brother of Edith Milgram of Briarcliff Manor, NY. Beloved uncle of David Milgram of Flagstaff, AZ and Robin Milgram of Hamilton, NY. Adored owner of Max the cat. A memorial service will be held in a few weeks and all loving frie
 FURST-Sidney S. We of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund sadly record the death of Dr. Sidney S. Furst, our Professional Director for 40 years. Dr. Furst was our friend, companion and colleague, and a dedicated resourceful worker for the Fund. His vigorous efforts on the Fund'
 GIOSCIA-Nicolai, M.D. On May 25 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, at age 96. Medical degree Middlesex College of Brandeis University. Assistant Director of Creedmore State Hospital, Director of Nassau County Community Mental Health, founder of mental health clinic U.S. Virgin Islands, visiting consult
 GRIMES-Thomas P. Of Massapequa, N.Y., on May 29, 2000. Loving husband of Katherine, devoted father of Constance Grassle, Lauren Rossi, and Stephen T. Grimes. Loving grandfather of eight grandchildren. Mr. Grimes was a veteran of World War II, serving in the Army Air Force, 8th Division. He 
 GRUNBERG-Emanuel (Lica), the love of my life, my husband God gave me for 55 years has left me on May 28, 2000. Evelyne (Evy) nee Wechsler. Born in Roumania, he was, during the difficult years of war, a pillar of the Jewish community-their pride. Not allowed to practice the law he had studie
 SHELTON-Edward D. May 26, 2000 in Troy, MI. Age 77. Greatly loved by his wife Ginny and his daughter Samantha. Mr. Shelton loved the theatre and was a Broadway stage manager/director for 20 years. Memorial service today in Bloomfield Hills, MI. Memorials to University of Michigan, Departmen
 THIERIOT-Charles H. of Locust Valley, LI, on May 24, 2000, age 85. Beloved husband of the late Edna T. Thieriot, devoted father of Charles H. Thieriot, Jr. of Los Angeles, CA, Julia D. Thieriot of Round Hill, VA and Frances T. Thieriot of Santa Monica, CA. Step-father of Jeff Carpenter and 
 Samuel Taylor, who wrote Broadway confections like ''Sabrina Fair'' and ''The Pleasure of His Company''  and worked on the script for the  Hitchcock thriller ''Vertigo,'' died on Friday at his home in Blue Hill, Me. He was 87. Favoring the genre in which Philip Barry famously tweake
 Robert P. Casey, the governor of Pennsylvania from 1987 to 1994, whose strong opposition to abortion put him at odds with the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Scranton, where he lived. He was 68. The cause was an infection. Mr. Casey helped to draw national attention to o
 BRILL-Robert. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend, Bob Brill, who has been an integral part of the AJC family for more than three decades. Bob, a nephew of our former National PResident Elmer Winter, was a member of our national Board of Governor
 CHAPMAN-John Haven, Of New Canaan, CT. On May 26, 2000. Survived by his wife Jane, his children Jack, Tom, Katie and Meg, his brothers Norman and James and his sister Virginia. Memorial service Thursday, June 1st, 1:30PM at the Stamford Yacht Club, 97 Ocean Drive West, Stamford, CT. Contrib
 COHEN-Joseph A. May 29, 2000. Devoted son of the late Pauline and Samuel Cohen, of Troy, NY. Beloved husband of Ellen. Adoring father of Julie and David. Dearest brother of Michael and Susan Cohen. Loving son-in-law of Cy and Barbara Leslie. Brother-in-law of Jane and Carol. Services Wednes
 FRYER-Robert S. November 18, 1920-May 28, 2000. The Producer Circle mourns the loss of our cherished colleague, the esteemed film and theatrical producer, whose films include The Boston Strangler, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, Travels With My Aunt, and The Boys From Brazil; and original Br
 FURST-Dr. Sidney S. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Sidney S. Furst. As a training and supervising analyst, he contributed immeasurably to the education of generations of students of psychoanalysis. His activit
 GIOSCIA-Nicolai, M.D. The Board, staff and members of SAGE mourn the death of our friend and staunch supporter who will be remembered for his graciousness, intelligence and ever-present twinkle in his eyes. He will be missed by us all. We send our love to his partner in life, Tony LaRocco. 
 GREY-Ross. Of Woodbridge, CT. Former Director of the Institute of Comparative Pathology and Emeritus Professor of Comparative Pathology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He is survived by his wife, four children and seven grandchildren.       
 STEERS-James Rich, May 26, 2000. Husband of Patricia (P.K.); father of James Rich Speers III, George, Philip, Robert and the late David; brother of Carol Steers Leslie. Grandfather of five. A graduate of Exeter Academy, Class of '44, & Princeton University, Class of '48, where he was active
 WOLF-Thomas Lester. Of La Jolla, California. On May 28, 2000. Survived by his wife of 56 years, Joy R. Wolf, son Peter of Oakland, California, two daughters, Katherine Wolf of San Diego, California and Barbara Schwartz of New York City; one loving grandchild and a brother, Dr. Richard E. Wo
 Robert Fryer, the producer or co-producer of many Broadway hits including ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Auntie Mame'' and its musical adaptation ''Mame,'' ''Sweet Charity,'' ''Chicago'' and ''Noises Off,'' died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was comp
 Dr. Toyoichi Tanaka, a biophysicist whose fascination with polymer compounds led him to create the ''smart'' gels that are having an important impact on chemistry, medicine, agriculture and other fields,  died on May 20 in Wellesley, Mass., where he lived. He was 54. Dr. Tanaka suff
