 Harold Russell, a disabled veteran of World War II who won two Academy Awards for his performance in the 1946 movie ''The Best Years of Our Lives,'' died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Needham, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Russell, who lost both hands in a wartime accident, had never acted
 Night Train Lane, a fearsome tackler who was perhaps the finest cornerback in pro football history, died Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his son Richard Lane Jr. said. When he obtained a tryout with the 1952 Los Angeles Rams, t
 AGEE-Robert Cecil. A 40 year resident of Bronxville died of lung cancer on January 30, 2002 at his home. He was 70 years old. Mr. Agee, an attorney with a varied appellate practice, was a graduate of Phillips Andover Academy, Princeton University and Harvard Law School. He had long been ass
 AGULNEK-Alvin. Suddenly on January 30, 2002. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted and loving father of Amy and Barbara. Dear brother of Milton and his wife Rhoda and Robert and his wife Holley. Brother-in-law of Marcella and Lillian. Cherished uncle and special friend to all who knew him. Ser
 DRAPKIN-Arnold, M.D. A compassionate, dedicated physician, he privileged me by being my doctor and friend for 23 years. I am honored to have known this inspirational & special man. He had the ability to make his patients feel safe and well cared for. He can never be replaced. Irene Jamieson
 DURNER-Edward F. January 30, 2002. Husband of Florence Mills Durner. Father of Anne Lauenstein, Margaret Kubasiak, Katherine Swartzell and Frances Durner. He was a graduate of the Fordham University Class of 1929.       
 FINKELSTEIN-Robert. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our longtime devoted member, Robert Finkelstein. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Phyllis Liniado, their daughter, Jennifer Finkelstein, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi 
 GUINNESS-Murtogh D. Died January 30th, 2002 in his home in New York City at age 88. He is survived by his sister Grania, Dowager Marchioness of Normandy, and sixteen nieces and nephews. A collector and longtime benefactor of the arts, he was a former President of the Music Box Society. Fune
 KAPLAN-Beatrice (Kantor). Of Hampton, NH on January 30, 2002. Widow of Solomon I., mother of the late Janey K. Smith, grandmother of Jody Smith and his wife Susan of Leominster, MA; sisterin-law of Robert Kaplan, his wife Evelyn, and of Ada Nogee all of Pompano Beach, FL; and several nieces
 LANGENAU-Martin G. Jr. January 29th, 2002 at age 89. Beloved husband of the late Mireille, dear devoted father of Patricia, loving grandfather of Michele and Reymond and cherished brother of Edith, Fenella and Edward. He was a proud W.W. II Veteran. A lifelong resident of Brooklyn, he was a
 LEIB-Robert. The Board of Governors and members of Delaire Country Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Robert Leib and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Mal Levenson, President       
 LONDON-Theodore. We mourn the passing of Theodore London who died on Friday, January 25, 2002 of a heart attack in his home in Rishon Letzion, Israel. Teddy possessed all of the special qualities that a great human being should have. He was benevolent with his time and resources, selfless w
 MASCARENHAS-Mark. CEO of WorldTel, died tragically on Sunday in a car accident in Kharbi, India. Mr. Mascarenhas resided in Westport, CT. and London and is survived by his wife Karen and their children Anne, Paul, David and Rose; his mother and two sisters live in Bangalore, India and his b
 MOSS-Greg (Gimpy Moskowitz). Died January 28, 2002, in Los Angeles, at 75 years of age. Loving husband of Lois. Devoted brother and brother-in-law of Morris and Dorothy, Ruth and Al Brodt, Rosalie and Clement Ripa, Hillard and Rosalie, Helen Zimmer, Dennis and Evelyn, Sandra and Perry Berg,
 RIGHTHAND-Herbert, CLU. Died January 12, 2002 in Walnut Creek, CA at age 89. Born April 1st, 1912 in NY. Herb graduated from Boys High in Brooklyn and attended Syracuse University. He served in the army during World War II, was honorably discharged and decorated. Mr. Righthand was well know
 SILVERSTEIN-Leo. Died January 31, 2002. He was 98 years young. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be missed. Memorial at a later date.       
 SUSSMAN-Jacob B. Died peacefully surrounded by his family on Wednesday, January 30, just six days after his 106th birthday. Beloved husband of the late Mollie and the late Dorothy. Cherished father of Shirley & Charles; Doris and Bernard; Gerald and Ellen Brandt. Adored grandfather of Lesle
 WALDBAUM-Ira. Passed away January 30, 2002 of Delray Beach, FL and Old Westbury, LI. Loving and devoted husband of Bernice to whom he was married for 53 years. Adored father of Randie (Aaron) Malinsky, Martin Waldbaum, Arthur (Nadine) Waldbaum and Nancy (Ronald) Nimkoff. Cherished grandfath
 WEDEEN-Dr. Peter. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. died after a long illness. A graduate of Columbia University & NYU Medical School. He served in the U.S. Navy. He was on the staff of Brooklyn Jewish Hospital, assistant professor of medicine at Downstate Medical Center and assistant chief medical officer
 WYLER-Wilfred. Died January 29, 2002 at age 93, after a long illness. Survived by his wife of 63 years, Marjorie, his daughters, Ruth W. Messinger and Dr. Barbara W. Gold, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Founder in 1937 and senior partner of Wilfred Wyler and Company, CPAs.
 Francis S. Gabreski, the leading American air ace in Europe in World War II who later in life tangled less triumphantly with political perils as head of the Long Island Rail Road, died on Thursday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. Mr. Gabreski, who lived in Dix Hills, N.Y., was 83.    
 Ira Waldbaum, who dropped out of college to help run his family's six small grocery stores in Brooklyn and ended up building what was at one time the nation's 12th largest supermarket chain, died Wednesday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74. The family could not be reached 
 ERDBERG-Carl B. 85. On January 31, 2002 in Durham, NC. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Betty. Cherished father of Erica Erdberg and Claudia and Jim Warburg. Adored grandfather of Emily and Anya Warburg. Honorary grandfather of Nina and Michael Frieman and Shana Frieman Bloom. Specia
 GUINNESS-Murtogh D. Died January 30th, 2002 in his home in New York City at age 88. He is survived by his sister Grania, Dowager Marchioness of Normandy, and sixteen nieces and nephews. A collector and longtime benefactor of the arts, he was a former President of the Music Box Society. Fune
 OLEWITZ-Murray. Beloved husband for 71 years of his late wife Millie. Father of Frances Davis and Joseph Olewitz and the late Roberta Epstein Karp. Adored grandfather, great - grandfather and great-great-grandfather. Former President of The Conservative Synagogue of 5th Avenue and a long st
 ROLNICK-Stanley G. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawayne Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Stanley G. Rolnick. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Marion and family. Stuart Herz, President       
 ROSELL-H. Bill. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, H. Bill Rosell. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Marilyn, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secreta
 WALDBAUM-Ira. The management and associates of The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, Inc. and its Waldbaum's division, are saddened by the death of Mr. Ira Waldbaum. Truly a grocery industry pioneer, Mr. Waldbaum and his family were instrumental in building a company whose banner is amo
 CHASSLER-Joseph Holland. 57, January 30, 2002, at his wife Beverly's apartment. Poet, philosopher and kind soul. He will be greatly missed. Survived by his mother Natalie, brother Philip, sister Deborah, son Zachariah, daughter Nora, son-in-law Richard & granddaughter Frances Riverside. A m
 COHEN-Nathaniel. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and long time member, Nathaniel Cohen. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 CURRICK-Fishel B. Died in his 92nd year. Beloved brother of Janice C. Levien and uncle of Lorna L. Lubash, caring and devoted friend to many. A mild mannered gentleman of uncompromising integrity who will be greatly missed. Contributions in his memory may be made to your favorite charity.  
 DRAPKIN-Arnold, M.D. The family of Arnold Drapkin, M.D. announces the establishment of the Arnold Drapkin, M.D. Memorial Lectureship in Medicine at Mount Sinai School of Medicine. The lectureship will focus on the science and art of medicine as it applies to excellence in patient care. Gift
 EISENBERG-Saul. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Newark and Maplewood, NJ, died on February 1, 2002, at age 83. He was predeceased by his wife Miriam. He is survived by his sons Drs. Marc and Scott Eisenberg, his sister Sue Kensicki and his grandchildren Janis, Laney, Lisa and David.       
 ERDBERG-Carl B. 85. On January 31, 2002 in Durham, NC. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Betty. Cherished father of Erica Erdberg and Claudia and Jim Warburg. Adored grandfather of Emily and Anya Warburg. Honorary grandfather of Nina and Michael Frieman and Shana Frieman Bloom. Specia
 GUINNESS-Murtogh D. Died January 30th, 2002 in his home in New York City at age 88. He is survived by his sister Grania, Dowager Marchioness of Normandy, and sixteen nieces and nephews. A collector and longtime benefactor of the arts, he was a former President of the Music Box Society. Fune
 GUTTAG-Alfred. On Jan. 29, 2002. Loving son of Bianca. Beloved husband of Mina. Caring father of Arlene and Barton. Grandfather of Alexa, Matthew, Barbara and Beverly. Great-grandfather of Cedar. Former Eagle Scout, proud member of the 754th Tank Battalion & Guadalcanal veteran. Founding me
 HAMMOND-Michael. Age 69 of complications due to cancer. He died on January 29, 2002. He was recently made Chairman of The National Endowment For The Arts. Survived by his wife, Anne Lilley Hammond and his son, Thomas Michael Hammond. Funeral Mass will be at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Rte 22
 HEGG-The Rev. David P. II. Beloved S.V.P. of the Church Pension Fund and Director of Pastoral Care & Education, January 24, during heart surgery. His outstanding ministry had a profound influence on the vitality of the Episcopal Church and the lives of active and retired clergy around the c
 HIRSCHFELD-Meyer. Died December 28, 2001 in Tel Aviv, Israel. Meyer, son of Shimon HaLevi and Sarah was born in Tarnow, Poland, March 22nd, 1928, the youngest of three brothers. His family emigrated to Palestine in 1934. Meyer served in The Haganah & The Israeli Army. He was employed by The
 HUTCHINSON - Seymour, Dr. (Hutch), on January 7, 2002 in Arizona, formerly of NY. Developed innovative dental procedures. In later years, worked with American Indians. Survived by his son, grandson, sister, brother-in-law. We remember the good days together. The Family       
 JACOBS-Jack, MD. 81 of Bayside, NY died on Feburary 1, 2002 of a stroke. Beloved husband of the late Kathryn G. Jacobs, MD. Dr. Jacobs is survived by his three children: Margaret Muehlbradt, Mary Pressman, MD, and John Jacobs, MD, by his two sons-inlaw Helmut Muehlbradt and Paul Pressman, M
 LYNCH-Peter G. Artist, writer, newsletter publisher and naturalist. Survived by longtime companion Alice Shultz. He was a good friend who made a difference to many during his too short lifefriends who benefited from his knowledge, love, appreciation, acceptance, talent and humor. He helped 
 McELWAIN-Jack W., M.D. The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons mourns the passing of our dedicated colleague and friend. Dr. McElwain, who died January 30th at the age of 80, was an internationally known surgeon who advanced the specialty of Colon and Rectal Surgery. His brilliant
 MINER-Joshua L. III. The staff and trustees of Outward Bound are saddened by the death of Joshua L. Miner, the founder, chief spokesman and steward of Outward Bound in the United States. He understood the power of adventure and selflessness, and through his work improved the lives of hundre
 PEARLSTEIN-Dr. Hillard H. On January 31, 2002. Leading New York City dermatologist. A man of dedication & passion for his family and profession. Beloved husband of Lee, devoted father of David. Loving brother of Florence. Caring uncle of Mark and Dawn and great uncle to Justin, Jonathan and
 PERRINI-Joseph J. Of Queens Village, on February 2, 2002. Beloved husband of Lucille. Loving father of Phyllis, Marguerite, Leonard and Joseph, Jr. Cherished grandfather of nine and great-grandfather of eight. He was an attorney and former Deputy Comptroller for the City of New York. He was
 POPIEL-Laurence Root. Survived by wife Sarah Johnsen Popiel, son Maximilian 13, daughter Olivia 9 and mother Dorothy Root Popiel who grieves for him.       
 ROGERS-Andrew Y. Age 90, died on Sunday, January 27, 2002, in Scarborough, ME. He was born in Madison, NJ on January 28, 1911. Educated at Phillips Academy, Yale, and the Yale Law/Harvard Business School program, he was a partner for more than 60 years at the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardw
 ROLNICK-Stanley. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Stanley Rolnick and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Marion and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President ROLNICK-Stanley. Great husband, wonderful father, won
 ROTH-Emanuel, M.D., F.A.C.S. Longtime resident of Belle Harbor, NY. A man of integrity, a dedicated and brilliant surgeon, he was highly respected and saved many lives. Always in the hearts and memories of his loving family. ROTH-Dr. Emanuel. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center fam
 SHINN-David C. 60, of Wethersfield, CT, passed away peacefully on Thursday, January 31, 2002, after a courageous battle with leukemia. He is survived by his wife, Maryanne Shinn, and children Christopher and Jaime.       
 SPIELMAN-William. The Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center acknowledges with deep sorrow the passing of our board member, friend and supporter William Spielman. His caring contribution to the furtherance of the Jewish community will benefit many generations to come. May his memory be for a 
 THIER-Ira L. On January 27, 2002. Beloved husband of Joanne. Loving father of Amy. Cherished grandfather of Alex Martin. Dear brother, cousin, uncle and friend. A gentle, caring, courageous man. Contributions in his memory may be made for music scholarships to The Juilliard School, 60 Linco
 TORON-Ronald. Beloved husband of Suzanne Rivchun. Loving son of Jerry and Carol Toron. Caring brother of Kenny Toron and Lisa Limpert. Devoted uncle. He was employed by Turner Broadcasting for over 10 years and was a Director of Graphic Effects.       
 WALDBAUM-Ira. The management and associates of The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, Inc. and its Waldbaum's division, are saddened by the death of Mr. Ira Waldbaum. Truly a grocery industry pioneer, Mr. Waldbaum and his family were instrumental in building a company whose banner is amo
 BELFER-Ira. 1911-2001. With Wisdom and Humor, He Offered Us The Richness Of His Life. Belfer Family       
 Sheldon Allman, a songwriter and actor who was the singing voice of Mr. Ed and composed the theme songs to ''George of the Jungle'' and other television shows, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Culver City, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, his family said. In ''Mr
 William Epton, a Maoist agitator who made a fiery street-corner speech during the Harlem riots of the summer of 1964 and as a result became the first person convicted of criminal anarchy since the Red Scare of 1919, died in a Manhattan hospital on Jan. 23. He was 70 and lived in Harlem.    
 Ernest Pintoff, a filmmaker who won an Academy Award in 1963 for ''The Critic,'' a short animated satire about modern art, died Jan. 12 at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Hollywood. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. ''The
 Harvey Matusow, a paid informer who named more than 200 people as Communists or Communist sympathizers in the early 1950's, only to recant and say he lied in almost every instance, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Claremont, N.H. He was 75. Nancy Graton, a friend, said the cause was c
 Laurence J. Kirwan, who was chairman of the New York State Democratic Party from 1984 to 1989 after being handpicked by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died on Thursday at his home in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 61 and had lived in Rochester from 1965 until a few years ago. He had melanoma, said J
 BIRNBAUM-Harris. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of Richard and Barry. Cherished grandfather of Ronald, Alice and Charles. Revered uncle of Tully Safian, Sara Ann Wallerstein, Susan Gamza and Marilyn Hookman, and loving great-uncle to their children. Distinguished member of the Ne
 CURRICK-Fishel B. Died in his 92nd year. Beloved brother of Janice C. Levien and uncle of Lorna L. Lubash, caring and devoted friend to many. A mild mannered gentleman of uncompromising integrity who will be greatly missed. Contributions in his memory may be made to your favorite charity.  
 GABRESKI-Col. Francis. The Polish American Congress mourns the death of our great American hero, ''Gabby.'' The top US fighter pilot in Europe, he also flew with the Polish Squadron of the RAF. He was a proud and loyal American; a true Pole; a devout Catholic. As we grieve and reflect on hi
 GRISHMAN-Dr. Arthur. On February 2, 2002, in his 88th year. Beloved husband of Edith for 63 years. Dear father of Ralph and his wife Eileen and the late Peter and his wife Helen. Grandfather of Kathleen, Alexander, Alisa, and Bernard. Services were held on Sunday, February 3.       
 GUINNESS-Murtogh D. Died January 30th, 2002 in his home in New York City at age 88. He is survived by his sister Grania, Dowager Marchioness of Normandy, and sixteen nieces and nephews. A collector and longtime benefactor of the arts, he was a former President of the Music Box Society. Fune
 KAPLAN-David. Dean Ira B. Lamster, Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, records with deep sorrow the death of our colleague, Dr. David Kaplan, Special Lecturer in Dentistry, on January 31, 2002. Dr. Kaplan made many contributions to the School's clinical, administrative, a
 LOSEE-Thomas Penny Jr. On February 2, 2002, after a prolonged battle with kidney disease. Resident of Gulf Stream, FL, and Glen Cove, NY. Beloved husband of Muriel Hahn Losee. Devoted father of Thomas Penny Losee III and Kendall Losee Graebner. Loving father-in-law to Paige York Losee and C
 PEARLSTEIN-Dr. Hillard. The quintessential man, personally and professionally. A man of integrity, loyalty, and uncompromising dedication. Hillard, our 30-year friendship was filled with humor, support and understanding. You were the brother I never had; a wonderful husband, father, son and
 RAGLAND - Lawrence Carey ''Larry.'' Died January 24, 2002, in New York City, New York. He was a vocalist/impressionist/come dian; and commercial lines underwriter for S & M Kline Company. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, February 5, 2002, at 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Church, 
 WALDBAUM-Ira. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our Uncle Ira, and condolences to his family. Sally, Russell and Marguerite Lowenfeld       
 ZSEDENYI-Karoly. Died peacefully at home on February 2, at the age of 91. Principal dancer and ballet master at the Opera of Budapest and ballet master and choreographer at the Antwerp and Brussels Operas. Director of Zsedenyi Ballet Company and School in Santiago, Chili. Beloved ballet mae
 Henry Kloss, an inventor of innovative audio and video components who became a hero to audiophiles, died on Thursday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 72. The cause was a subdural hematoma, said his son, David Kloss. Throughout his career, Mr. Kloss (pronounced close) was guided as
 Nala Najan, an American-born choreographer and performer who also wrote about the traditional dances of India, died on Jan. 7. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Katharine Cunningham, a friend. Mr. Najan, born Roberto Rivera, trained in viol
 CODDON-David R., M.D. Of Engelwood NJ. Director and Founder of The Headache Clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital, NY NY. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Frank). Devoted father of Jonathan and Susan. Loving grandfather of four grandchildren. Services Tuesday 1PM at the Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah
 DeALESSANDRO-Joseph P., 71. On February 2, 2002 in Westfield, NJ. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Dorothy. Cherished son of the late Peter Charles and Lucy Rose. Beloved brother of Frank and Barbara. Revered and loved uncle of Joseph, Joan & Howard. Dedicated companion of Jeanette. 
 DEUTSCHMAN-Paul E. On February 3rd, 2002. Journalist and novelist, World War II veteran, former Foreign News Editor for Life Magazine, former Senior Director of the Magazine Unit for the Marshall Plan, former State Department official, Founder of The Jewish Awareness Group. Beloved husband 
 GOCHFELD-Alex. Age 88 on January 26, 2002. He lived most of his life at Mohegan Lake where he died surrounded by his family. Born in Paris, France in 1913, he was educated at CCNY. A gifted linguist, he worked as an interpreter at the United Nations and was proud of his involvement in the d
 GORDON-Jay. Of San Diego, CA, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died on February 2, 2002, at his home with his adoring family around him. Beloved soul mate of Sophia and devoted & dedicated father of James, Janina, and son-in-law, Jason. He was a professor of history at Queens College of the City
 GRISHMAN-Arthur, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Grishman was an internationally known Cardiologist and a prominent member of the attending staff for more than 30 years. He received h
 HITCH-Stewart. Died on February 3, 2002 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital of liver cancer, surrounded by his close friends, at age 61. A good friend and a great painter, he will be profoundly missed.       
 IRELAND-R.L. III. The Directors of the Board and Staff of Freedom Institute express profound sorrow at the death of R.L. Ireland III and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Anne, his children, grandchildren and all his family. ''Tim'' served for many years as a revered member of the Ins
 LEVEEN-Ernie A. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LIPPMAN-Philip, 87. Devoted husband for 63 years of the late Helen. Loving father of Susan and Stanley Karp and Iris and Michael Boshes. Loving grandfather of Isaac Boshes, Melissa Karp and Andrew and Lauren Karp. He lived life ''his way.'' Service at Temple Beth Elohim today 10 AM Garfield
 LOSEE-Thomas P., Jr. We loved him like a brother. His incredible spirit will be with us forever. Alan and Suzanne Waxenberg       
 MAURICE-Julien, 65. Of New York City, beloved nephew of Sadye Aaronson and loving friend of Gregory Bogert, Yael Gani, Michael Gary, and Jacqueline Palmer, died on Sunday, February 3, after a long illness. Contributions in his memory may be made to Identity House, 39 West 14 Street, Suite 2
 MESSINGER-Dr. Henry. Age 89, of Southport, CT., a highly respected and much loved family practioner, died Sunday, February 3, 2002. He is survived by his wife, Beatrice Koblin Messinger and his daughter, Maris Messinger, both of Southport and his son, Dr. Barry Messinger and his wife, Geri 
 NICHOLS-Albert L., M.D. Physician, entrepreneur, loving husband, father and grandfather died of a heart attack at age 67 on January 27, 2002. He was founder, chairman, and CEO of Nichols Institute from 1970-1994 when NI merged with Corning Life Sciences. Memorial services February 6, 2002, 
 PEARLSTEIN-Dr. Hillard. The Dermatologic Society of Greater New York mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and former officer. Hillard was well respected by his patients and peers, and will be sorely missed. Vincent DeLeo, M.D., President Arielle Kauvar, M.D., Pres.-Elect       
 ROLNICK-Stanley. A truly wonderful friend who will be greatly missed. Loved by all who knew him. Millie and Danny       
 RUBIN-Joel. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Adored father of Mel and Ellen, Ava and Edward, Donna and the late Karen. Loving Grandpa of Christopher and Joshua. Loving brother to his sisters and brothers. A most devoted son to his late parents, Sadie and Meyer Rubin. He will be sorely miss
 Robert L. Chapman, an editor of Roget's Thesaurus who built a distinguished career on the difference between the right word and the almost right word and who streamlined the work for postmodern users, died Saturday in Morristown, N.J. He was 81 and lived in Madison, N.J. Dr. Chapman
 Claude Brown, whose 1965 book, ''Manchild in the Promised Land,'' chronicled his ascent from a harrowing childhood of violent crime and poverty in Harlem and became a classic of American literature, died on Feb. 2 in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was a lung condition, said Laura H
 Ed Jucker, who coached the University of Cincinnati basketball team to three consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament finals and won the first two, died Saturday at his home on Callawassie Island, S.C., near Hilton Head Island. He was 85 and had prostate cancer, his wife, Joanne, said.      
 CORNERETTO-Alan. February 3, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife & inseparable companion, Margot Lehman Corneretto, son Roger, sister Joan Silverstein, brothers-inlaw Albert Silverstein, Herbert and Edgar Lehman, and sisters-in-law Virginia and Elisabeth Lehman. Editor, public relations and 
 DRICOT-Jean A. Died in Falmouth, ME, February 2, 2002 after a long illness with Alzheimer's disease. Born Heliopolis, Egypt, February 15, 1923, he served in the Piron Brigade of the Belgium Army (1940-1945) and participated in the Normandy invasion. Proud veteran, he returned to Belgium for
 HAUG-Frederick J., 91. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. Died February 5, 2002 in New York City. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted and adored father of Gretchen Stone, Hedi White and father-in-law of Lewis Stone and Thomas White. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Stone-Humphrey and her husband Ji
 IRELAND-R.L. III. The Board of Trustees, Trustees Emeriti and the entire Phillips Academy community in Andover, MA. express deepest sympathy at the death of R.L. Ireland III, Trustee Emeritus. A member of the Class of 1938, Tim was a Charter Trustee from 1960-1990 and founding chairman of t
 MACOTSIS-George. On February 4, 2002. Survived by his daughter Nicole, his mother Olga and his sister Jean Preftes. Reposing at Evangelismos Church, 302 W. 91 St, N.Y.C. Wednesday, 7-9PM. Service in Church 12:30PM Thursday, Donations preferred to Cooper Union Annual Fund or Children's Aid S
 PLOTKIN-Helen. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of Helen Plotkin. Helen was the beloved mother of Fred Plotkin, our dear friend and benefactor. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Fred, his wife Janet and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman
 SCHEIDT-John C, Jr. Major General (USAF Retired). Age 67, passed away on Friday, February 1, 2002. General Scheidt was born in 1934, in Brooklyn, N.Y., where he graduated from Brooklyn Technical High School in 1952. He received a Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1958 and a Mast
 SINDEBAND-Seymour Jay. The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science of Columbia University expresses its sorrow at the loss of its counselor, benefactor, and friend, Seymour Jay Sindeband. After receiving his A.B., B.S., and M.S. degrees from Columbia, and serving as a Naval 
 BERTHOLET-Marc B. February 3, 2002. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a time to be announced. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to the Huntington's Disease Society of America, 158 West 29th Street, 7th Floor, NY, NY 10001.       
 CORNERETTO-Alan. February 3, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife & inseparable companion, Margot Lehman Corneretto, son Roger, sister Joan Silverstein, brothers-inlaw Albert Silverstein, Herbert and Edgar Lehman, and sisters-in-law Virginia and Elisabeth Lehman. Editor, public relations and 
 DeALESSANDRO-Joseph P. The trustees, faculty, staff and students of The Culinary Institute of America (CIA) mourn the death of Joseph P. DeAlessandro, Honorary Member of the Board of Trustees and Honorary Alumnus. Mr. DeAlessandro received an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from the co
 GIANETTINO-Lawrence D. Ricco/Maresca Gallery is saddened by the loss of our close friend and colleague, Larry Gianettino (1956-2002). It will be a quieter, less ebullient, and much less colorful world without him.       
 KLEIN-Brian Seth. Of New York City, died February 5, 2002. He was 37. Brian was born in Rome, Italy on December 29, 1964. He graduated from Horace Greeley High School in 1982 and Syracuse University in 1986, and received numerous awards in advertising sales. He did the best he could. Brian 
 LANDES-Robert N. The Society of Columbia Graduates notes with great sadness the loss of Robert N. Landes, a past President of this Society and a great friend of Columbia College. His wise and generous counsel, devotion to alma mater and gracious spirit will be sorely missed. The Society of 
 MATHIS-Robert T. Of Greenwich, CT, died February 5. A graduate of Columbia College and the Harvard Business School, he was an investment banker at Blyth Eastman Dillon and Paine Webber; and served as a missionary to the Diocese of Mount Kilimanjaro. He is survived by his daughters, Liliana,
 PLOTKIN-Helen. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Helen Plotkin, beloved mother of our dear friend and benefactor, Fred Plotkin, who has provided generous support to many programs and services of the Medical Center. To Fred, his family and 
 ROSENBERG-Gerald N. February 6, 2002 of NY and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Joyce. Loving and always supportive father of William, Jane and Nancy. Dear father-in-law of Harris Udell. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Kelli. Cherished brother of Malcolm and Helen May. A graduate of B
 WILCOX-Stanley Paul. Businessman Stanley Paul Wilcox, 77, of Palm Beach and Charlottesville, died February 4. He received his B.S. from Northwestern University and did graduate work at SeaburyWestern Theological Seminary. He entered the U.S. Navy in 1943 as Apprentice Seaman, was Honor Man 
 Peter Gzowski, the rumpled host of a national radio program in Canada whose gentle, homey tones gave voice to a generation of Canadians searching for their national identity, died on Jan. 24 in Toronto. He was 67. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a severe form of
 Dr. Robert Hanbury Brown, an engineer who drew on his pioneering work in radar to invent a way of measuring stars in distant galaxies, died Jan. 16 at a hospice in England. He was 85 and lived in Penton Mewsey, a small parish in Hampshire. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 A. H. Weiler, a writer, editor and critic whose career at The New York Times spanned more than 50 years, died on July 22 at his home in Astoria, Queens. He was 93. News of his death was delayed by the illness of his daughter and sole survivor, Susan L. Weiler. Mr. Weiler's wife, Ann
 Adalbert de Segonzac, a French journalist who was the Washington correspondent of the daily France-Soir from 1956 to 1976, died Dec. 27 at his home in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a Paris suburb. He was 89. Mr. de Segonzac, a past president of the Foreign Press Association, was born in Paris.
 Dr. John A. D. Cooper, a medical educator who helped shape national policy as the first full-time physician president of the American Association of Medical Colleges, died on Jan. 27 in Birmingham, Ala. He was 83 and lived in Birmingham. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's di
 Dr. Jonathan Evans Rhoads, a Philadelphia surgeon who made crucial breakthroughs in the development of intravenous feeding, died on Jan. 3. He was 94 and lived in Haverford, Pa. Through most of his career at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and the university's medical
 Dr. Max Perutz, whose success in elucidating the structure of the hemoglobin molecule helped give birth to the field of molecular biology and brought him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Cambridge, England. He was 87. Dr. Perutz'
 ASCHER-Robert Conrad. On February 5. Psychiatrist and psychoanalyst in private practice in Manhattan for 50 years. Died peacefully at home surrounded by the family who adored him. He was 77. Born in New York City in 1924, he graduated from the Lincoln School of Teachers College, Columbia Un
 CHARNEY-Herbert. Yeshiva University sadly notes the passing of Herbert Charney, in Tel Aviv. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his mother Sarah Charney; brother, Yeshiva College alumnus Leon H. (Tzili) Charney, a YU Guardian and Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law board member; sister Br
 COGAN-David J. Died Thursday, February 7 at his home in Bedford, New York. Beloved husband of Arline, loving father of Sharon and Carol whose mother is Ferne, father-in-law of Joel Cogan-Beck and Burt Savitsky, devoted grandfather of Jessica, Nicole, Samuel, and Katrina, caring brother of E
 DAUBE-Joseph. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear secretary, Joseph Daube. He was a devoted longtime member of our organizations who always gave us his utmost support. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his dear wife, Bea, his sons, Jeffrey and Michael, and their families. Henry 
 GEBBIA-Carmen J. Of Toms River, NJ, passed away Tuesday, February 5, 2002 at home. Age 88. Born in New York City in 1913, Mr. Gebbia was a resident of Totowa, NJ from 1958 to 1987 when he retired from his career as a make-up artist to the stars. Mr. Gebbia moved to Toms River, NJ in 1987. M
 JENKINS-Clifford J. Of Port Washington, NY. Passed away peacefully on February 4, 2002. Survived by his wife Ulla, his godchild Loretta Ward & her husband Frank, the Johanssons and the Loggerts of Sweden, and many nieces and nephews. Private funeral services were held.       
 KESSLER-Daniel. Founding partner of Porter Wallace Corp. in NYC. February 5, 2002. Survived by his wife Cynthia, 2 daughters, 4 grandchildren and a brother. Services Sunday, February 10, 1PM, Temple Shari Emeth, Manalapan, NJ. Interment Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ. Donations to the
 LESNICK-Gerson, M.D. On February 7th, 2002 in his 89th year. Attending Surgeon at Mt. Sinai Hospital and Clinical Professor of Surgery at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine Emeritus. Beloved husband of Norma Vernon. Dear father of Dr. David and Deborah Woodsfellow and Richard Lesnick and his wife
 LINDER-Arthur. Educator Arthur Linder, 81, died February 6, 2002. A lifetime resident of New York City, he was the Chairman of Biology at Stuyvesant High School for thirtyfive years. He loved his students and continued a tutoring practice up to the time of his death. A Renaissance man with 
 ORLOWSKY-Jordan. The employees of Feldman Lumber Company are deeply saddened by the untimely death of one of its key employees for over twenty years. He was our friend and we will miss him. Robert Feldman, President Feldman Lumber       
 Reggie Montgomery, an actor and director who was the first black clown to perform with the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, was found dead in his New York apartment on Jan. 13. He was 54. The cause will be determined by an autopsy, said Lori Tan Chinn, a friend. A polic
 Dr. John Slade, an expert in the treatment of alcohol, tobacco and drug addictions and an early and ardent supporter of government regulation of cigarettes, died on Jan. 29 at a family home on Lake Burton in Rabun County, Ga. He was 52. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, 
 Neal W. O'Connor, a longtime advertising executive who in the 1960's and 1970's helped revive the agency now known as N. W. Ayer & Partners by, among other things, moving its  headquarters to New York from Philadelphia, died on Friday, Jan. 18 in Newtown, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Princeto
 FEIN-Robert, 78, February 5, 2002. Devoted husband, father and grandfather. Bob was involved in Boy Scouting for more than 50 years in NYC and was a retired school teacher. Bob will be greatly missed by all those lives he touched. Information: 718-338-1500.       
 FRACCHIA-Alfred A., M.D. The staff of the Department of Surgery and Breast Surgery Service of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center notes with sadness the death of their colleague, Dr. Alfred Fracchia. Dr. Fracchia's career at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center began as a Surgical Fell
 GELIN-Lazare. February 7, 2002. Born 1903 in Lithuania. Survived by his wife Irene Slosbergs. His first wife Dorothy Bresler predeceased him. Also survived by his children Jacques and Lia Poorvu, seven grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Services private.       
 KATZ-Jerrold J. We mourn the loss of our eminent colleague, a Distinguised Professor of Philosophy and Linguistics, and extend sincere condolences to his wife, Dr. Virginia Valian, and family. Since 1975 he served The Graduate Center community, making many contributions in his field and to 
 MULHAUSER-George C., 79. Of Paramus, NJ, a renowned contemporary furniture designer, died Feb. 7, 2002. He was a veteran of W.W. II and served in Okinawa. Beloved husband of Mary. Loving father of Dan and Chris, Paul and Linda, Mary Ann and Jeff, and George and Christine; and nine grandchil
 SHENDELMAN-George. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of George Shendelman, husband of Esther Shendelman, father of Deborah Shendelman and Trisha Shendelman Margulies, our esteemed colleagues. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire famiily. May his memory be for a bl
 Remo P. Palmier, a jazz guitarist who performed with Charlie Parker, Billie Holiday and Dizzy Gillespie but won his chief fame on ''The Arthur Godfrey Show,'' died last Saturday in the Bronx. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. He had been suffering from leukemia and lymphoma, said hi
 William T. Dillard, who founded the Dillard's department store chain, built it into the nation's third largest and then presided as his stores lost prestige and profits, died yesterday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 87. Mr. Dillard was born Sept. 2, 1914, in Mineral Springs
 James Blackwood, the sharecroppers' son whose resonant voice took him from the country churches and revival tents of red-dirt Mississippi to the summits of gospel music, died on Feb. 3 in Memphis. He was 82. The cause was complications from a stroke, his son Billy said. Mr. 
 Lloyd Kiva New, an artist and designer who taught generations of American Indian artists at the Institute of American Indian Arts, an innovative school that he and a colleague founded in Santa Fe, N.M., died on Friday in a hospital in Santa Fe, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. New, a 
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. Memorial service in celebration of his life, at 5 PM, February 26th, 2002, New York Weill Medical College, Uris Auditorium, 1300 York Ave. at 69th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the New York Academy of Medicine, Psychiatry Section, Stuart S. Asch, M.D. Memoria
 BACKER-Bernard. Born July 18, 1918. Died on February 7, 2002. Former Senior Vice President, The Segal Company. Former President, the Workmen's Circle. Lifelong social democrat and fighter for social justice. Cherished husband of Henrietta. Father of Louise Uphoff, Jo Laird & Richard Backer.
 BAMBERGER-Edmund M. On February 8, 2002 at the age of 84, in Sarasota, FL. Beloved husband of Marjorie Grace Rothenberg, loving stepfather of John Rothenberg and Dr. Peter Rothenberg. Caring father-in-law of Kimberly, our gifted teacher, & Dr. Deborah Brownstone Rothenberg. Adoring grandfat
 BAUM-BENJAMIN-Edythe. The partners and principals of Marks Paneth & Shron acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of the mother of our co-managing partner, Steve Baum. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 CHANDRA - Prafulla (Peter), Ph.D., 1942-2002. Loving husband of Sudha, and beloved father to twin daughters Seema and Geeta of Hillsborough, New Jersey suddenly passed away on Thursday, February 7th in New York City Hospital. Born in Uttar Pradesh, India, Prafulla completed his Ph.D. in Che
 COHEN-Emil. Died February 12, 2000 at age 88. With apologies to those who were unaware of his death two years ago in Lake Worth, Florida, we honor his memory and the way he celebrated life bringing mirth and good will to countless friends and audiences. As an entertainer in a golden era of 
 CURRICK-Fishel. Management and staff of Paul Stuart, Inc. note with deep sadness the loss of Fishel Currick, former employee and friend. He was a truly fine gentleman of great warmth and integrity, admired and respected by all who knew him. His memory will be cherished with great affection 
 DILLARD-William. Our deepest condolences to all of the Dillards. William was a man of uncommon integreity and loyalty, and we will miss his wisdom. Bernie and Sidelle Olsoff       
 DOMOTO-Kaneji (Kan). Architect and landscape architect of New Rochelle, NY died Jan. 27, 2002. Born in Oakland, California on November 5, 1912, he attended Stanford University, UC Berkeley, and studied with Frank Lloyd Wright. Domoto was interned with his wife Sally Fujii at Amache, Colorad
 DOOLEY-James J. Of Denville, NJ, died February 6. Survived by his wife, Peggy Dooley; daughters Anne O'Connell, Ellen Ingraham & Laura Mazzella and grandchildren Maureen and Andrew Ingraham. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions in his memory may be made to Children
 FINKELSTEIN-Robert. The Association of Electrical Contractors, Inc, is deeply saddend by the passing of our dear friend, Bob. He served as an officer in the US Navy, graduated from Cornell, EE, and became President of RobertAllen Associates. Bob, representing his firm, became a member and d
 GELIN-Lazare. February 7, 2002. Born 1903, in Lithuania. Survived by his wife Irene Slosbergs. His first wife Dorothy Bresler predeceased him. Also survived by his children Jacques B. and Margaret (Littwitz), of Rockville, MD, and Lia G. and William J. Poorvu, of Cambridge, MA; seven grandc
 LAWRENCE-Richard W., Jr. Elizabethtown, NY. 93, died on Wednesday, February 6, at the Elizabethtown Community Hospital. He was born January 16, 1909, in the Bronx, son of Richard W. Lawrence and Ruth Earle. He was a graduate of the Riverdale School, Princeton University and Columbia Law Sch
 ROSEN-Richard. On February 8, 2002, Richard Rosen passed away in Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, after a brief, but hard-fought battle with congestive heart failure. Dick was a self-made man. Born in 1930 and raised in Brooklyn, Dick earned himself a place at Brooklyn Technical High Sch
 ROSENSPIRE-Isidore (Izzy). Born April 30, 1922, died February 8, 2002, after a long illness. Beloved son of the late Harry and Frieda Rosenspire. Adored husband of Eda (Fanrove) for 54 years. Father of Allen, Richard and Wendy. Grandfather of Joshua, David, Matthew and Haley. Special father
 SHEARER-Hartley Parker. On February 7, 2002, at age 57 in Williamstown, MA. Born in New York City and a longtime resident there, he leaves his loving wife of 35 years, Linda and his devoted son, Ivor. Earning his living as a landlord he dedicated his life to art and public service, and chan
 SIEGEL-Jack, 96. Died Feb. 7, in Forest Hills, New York, where he had been a longtime resident. Beloved husband of the late Barbara Siegel. He is survived by daughters Claire, Eleanor and Linda, eight grandchildren and twelve great-grandchildren.       
 THOMAS-Archimedes K., M.D. Of Boxford, Massachusetts. passed away on January 22, 2002. He was a graduate of Stuyvesant High School Class of 1970, S.U.N.Y. Stony Brook and S.U.N.Y. Buffalo School of Medicine. He is survived by his wife Susan, his sons Andrew and Matthew, his parents Lester a
 WOOD-Irving W. 75, died February 2, at his home in Northport, LI. Distinguished audio engineer, inspired jack-of-all-trades, devoted sailor, irrepressible collector and fixer of electronic equipment, great friend. Survived by his dear sister Judy Spock, nieces and nephews, and Pat Meier, si
 ALTMAN-Leon L. 1911-1986. FORSAN ET HAEC OLIM MEMINISSE IUVABIT. From his loving daughter, Elizabeth.       
 GAIR-Harry A. Remembered for sharing his measureless knowledge and professional skills. Herbert       
 BAUMAN-Frederick James. Of Atlantic Highlands, NJ, and formerly of NYC, entered eternal life on February 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Frances Saganich Bauman. Devoted father of Paul of NYC, and of David and daughterin-law Laura of Roseland, NJ. Loving grandfather of Nicholas, also of Roselan
 BODEN-Joseph F., 79, of Glen Head, NY, passed away on February 9, 2002. Loving husband of Christine, he is also survived by his children, Kristina, Stacy, Aimee, Lisa, and Paul; Christine's children, Bettina Young Foody and William Young; sisters Helen Hendricks and Mary Tierney; sister-in-
 CANNADAY-Richard Lee. 77, died on February 8, 2002, at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Cannaday was a patent attorney in private practice in Elizabeth, NJ, prior to his retirement in 1995. Before entering private practice he worked in Esso Research and Engineering's Patent Department and with th
 GETTINGER-Dr. Milton M. Died suddenly February 9. Son of Robert and Erica. Brother of Scott and Clark. He brought joy and happiness into everyone's life. His family, friends, patients, the Lenox Hill doctors, nurses and staff and his dog Jasper will miss him dearly. Services Monday 10:00 AM
 GOODMAN-Lloyd. 97, died Saturday, February 9. Cherished husband of the late Florence. Beloved son of Morris and Jennie Goodman. Dear uncle and friend. For many years, he was the proprietor of Lloyd's Mens Shop, Englewood, NJ, and enjoyed a sterling reputation as the top men's haberdasher in
 LOSEE-Wilmot H. On February 9, 2002, at the age of 89, in Englewood, FL. Devoted father of Wilmot Hurst Losee Jr. and Steven Thomas Losee and father-in-law of Jean Gilpatrick Losee. Adoring grandfather of Elizabeth Losee McGurl, Geoffrey Andrew Losee, James Alden Losee, Stephanie Losee, San
 SCHNEIDER-Bernard, M.D. 89, of Yonkers, NY, died suddenly of cardiac causes on Saturday, February 9, 2002. He was a highly respected, admired and skilled family practitioner to thousands of families in the Bronx for over 50 years. A devoted and loving husband, father and grandfather, a gene
 SHEARER-Hartley Parker. On February 7, 2002, at age 57 in Williamstown, MA. Born in New York City and a longtime resident there, he leaves his loving wife of 35 years, Linda and his devoted son, Ivor. Earning his living as a landlord he dedicated his life to art and public service, and chan
 STEPHENS-Rosemary L. Of Rye, formerly of Scarsdale, on February 10, 2002. Wife of the late Stewart E. Stephens, mother of S. Dwight Stephens and his wife Elizabeth, grandmother of Eric and William, sister of Harold and David Walsh and Ruthann Salinger. Calling hours The Fred H. McGrath & So
 Robert J. Lamphere, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who supervised the investigations of some of the biggest espionage cases of the cold war, including those of the Rosenbergs, Klaus Fuchs and Kim Philby, died on Jan. 7 in a Tucson hospital. He was 83. The cause of d
 Rudolph Davila, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 56 years after he saved the lives of 130 American soldiers by rushing a German machine gun outpost in Italy in World War II, died Jan. 26 at his home in Vista, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. On May 
 Dave Van Ronk, the gravel-voiced, ragtime-picking patriarch of the Greenwich Village folk scene, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was colon cancer, said his manager, Mitchell Greenhill. Mr. Van Ronk had three essential qualitie
 Msgr. Anthony Dalla Villa, the former rector of St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan and for years one of the most visible priests in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Sunday after collapsing while celebrating Mass at St. Agnes Church in Manhattan. He was 63. The c
 BALSAM-Sidney. 86, died peacefully on February 11, 2002. Loving husband of the late Esther Luttan Balsam. Devoted father of Wendy, Peter and Robert. Adoring grandfather of Andrew, Nicki, Charlie, Daniel and Julia. Loving father-inlaw of Suzanne, Frances and Becky. Kind brother of Irving, Mi
 CAGNER-Nathan. To our adored Grandpa. We will always remember the smiles and happiness that Grandpa brought to us at every occasion. From sharing a great breakfast with him at Mom's Kitchen to learning how to hit a golf ball with perfect ease, his ways were both comforting and lasting. His 
 DALLA VILLA-Monsignor Anthony J. Called to the Lord on February 10, 2002. Monsignor Dalla Villa was born in New York City on April 2, 1938, to Frank and Elizabeth (nee Nicolini) Dalla Villa. He studied at St. Agnes High School, Cathedral Preparation School and Cathedral College before enter
 DARBY-A. Hugh. The Officers, Directors and members of the Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association mourn the passing of Commissioner Hugh Darby and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association Richard A. Steinberg, President       
 DIAMONDSTEIN - Murry. Of Boynton Beach, FL. Formerly of Westbury, NY. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Heather and Elliott Friedman, and Diane Diamondstein and David Garelik. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Laura Friedman. Died peacefully at home on February 11, 2002. He was 
 FLIEGEL-Norris E., Ed.D. World War II veteran, Dr. Fleigel trained in psychoanalysis at Clark University in Worcester, MA, graduate of Harvard and NYU, former Dean of The School of Education and former Vice Chancellor of Hunter College, co-author with the late Bernard Rosenberg of ''The Van
 GETTINGER-Dr. Milton M. Died suddenly February 9. Son of Robert and Erica. Brother of Scott and Clark. He brought joy and happiness into everyone's life. His family, friends, patients, the Lenox Hill doctors, nurses and staff and his dog Jasper will miss him dearly. Services Monday 10:00 AM
 GIPS-Walter F. Jr. Died February 10, 2002 at home in Princeton, NJ. Graduate of Yale College and Harvard Business School '43, Captain US Army Quartermaster's Corps, WWII, then faculty Harvard Business School. His successful business career culminated as CEO and Chairman of the Board of Gult
 KLEIN-Kalman. Of New York City and Westhampton Beach. In his 96th year. Beloved father of Dr. Stephan Marc Klein, Peter D. Klein, Joan Gandy and the late Richard Springer. Father-in-law of Andrea B. Klein and the late Judy Graf Klein. Grandfather of Adina and Oleanna Klein. Grandfather of S
 POSNER-Victor. Industrialist and financier, died on February 11, 2002 at the Miami Heart Institute. Born on September 18, 1918 in Baltimore, MD, Mr. Posner was one of nine children of Morris and Mary Posner, who both emigrated from Russia. He left school as a teenager to work in the grocery
 Dr. Robert W. Berliner, a former dean of the Yale School of Medicine and an authority on renal physiology whose work helped clarify some of the kidney's most important functions, died on Feb. 5 in New Haven. He was 86. In the late 1940's, Dr. Berliner and his team did research that 
 Frank Crosetti, the smooth-fielding shortstop and third-base coach who was a presence in Yankee pinstripes for 37 consecutive seasons, the longest stretch of anyone in franchise history, died Monday in Stockton, Calif. He was 91. He arrived at Yankee Stadium in 1932, a teammate of B
 BROWN-Austin J. Of Emerson, New Jersey, former employee of The American Lung Association, former Country Director of The United States Peace Corp (Uganda and Gambia) Africa Service Institute, the African American Institute and the Institute of International Education. Died Saturday, Februar
 DALLA VILLA-Rt. Rev Msgr Anthony. In life and now in death, Monsignor Anthony Dalla Villa was quintessentially a priest. Totally dedicated to his calling, he served God and the Church devotedly and without reservation throughout his life. A deeply spiritual man, he was a treasured friend an
 DALY-William J. The Board of Trustees of St. Patrick's Cathedral record with sorrow the passing of William Daly who has served as a Trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral for 14 years with great distinction and dedication, holding the offices of Vice President and Treasurer and also serving as 
 DiBENEDETTO-Vincent. Beloved companion, father, son, nephew, brother, died suddenly February 11 at New York Hospital. Graduate of Harvard University '79, singer at Grace Church, longtime employee of Chadbourne & Parke. He is survived by life partner Michael LaPlaca, adopted sons, Donovan & 
 FRISCH-Robert E. Born August 18, 1925, died on February 5, 2002. He was a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law and a partner at Rogers and Wells. He is survived by his wife, Dolly Hemphill and children, Katharine, Robert, Peter, and ten grandchildren. Memorial service will be held at
 GETTINGER-Dr. Milton M. Died suddenly February 9. Son of Robert and Erica. Brother of Scott and Clark. He brought joy and happiness into everyone's life. His family, friends, patients, the Lenox Hill doctors, nurses and staff and his dog Jasper will miss him dearly. Family sitting Shiva tod
 GIPS-Walter F. Jr. The American Jewish Committee mourns with deepest regret and sadness the death of Walter Gips, an Honorary Vice President, beloved member of our Board of Governors, and Past Treasurer. Since 1951, Walter served AJC in numerous national leadership capacities. He was also a
 HANDELSMAN-Richard, 63. Died unexpectedly Friday, February 8 in his Woodstock, Ill. home. Services were held February 11 at Congregation B'nai Torah in Highland Park, Ill. Mr. Handelsman graduated from Cornell University in 1960 with a degree in Engineering Physics. He earned his Master's a
 HECHT-Aaron. Died on February 11, 2002. Of Van Cortlandt Village, Bronx, NY. Beloved husband of Estelle, loving father of Jay, beloved brother, brother-in-law, and uncle. A WW II veteran, he was dedicated to religious and charitable activities, but above all, he was gentle, generous, and a 
 KLEIN-Kalman. Of New York City and Westhampton Beach. In his 96th year. Beloved father of Dr. Stephan Marc Klein, Peter D. Klein, Joan Gandy and the late Richard Springer. Father-in-law of Andrea B. Klein and the late Judy Graf Klein. Grandfather of Adina and Oleanna Klein. Grandfather of S
 KUNREUTHER-Frederick, (85). Died February 11. Survived by his wife Emily and children Richard, Katharine, Robbie, Frances and Elizabeth. Predeceased by son John. Contributions in his memory can be made to Marlboro College, Marlboro, VT. 05344.       
 LEBHAR-Dr. Neil F., 88. Of Vicar's Landing, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida died February 11, 2002. Beloved husband of B. Eleanor Lebhar for almost 52 years, father of the Rev. Neil G. Lebhar of Jacksonville, Brett H. Lebhar of Cincinnati, Clay G. Lebhar of Fort Lee, NJ, stepfather of Richard H.
 SINDEBAND-Seymour J. On February 1, 2002. Age 85. Of Pound Ridge, N.Y. Husband of the late Elizabeth Bennett. Survived by son Markham L., daughter-in-law Jacqueline, daughter Caroline Ricker, brother Allan L., eight grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Veteran U.S. Navy, 6 years of ac
 WIIG-Roy. Of White Plains, NY, on February 11th, 2002, age 78. Born on Staten Island, New York. A veteran of WW II, graduate of City College, completed graduate studies at Harvard, employed by I.B.M. for 33 years. Survived by Elaine Wiig, David Wiig, Caroline Margagliano, John Wiig, Elsa Wi
 Victor Posner, a corporate raider whose exploits over three decades earned him a place in the rogue's gallery of American business, died  on Monday at the Miami Heart Institute. He was 83 and lived in Miami Beach. The cause was pneumonia, according to Milton Farrell, his friend and 
 Jim Spencer, a power-hitting first baseman and outstanding fielder who played for the Yankees' 1978 World Series champions, died Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, his mother, Helen Spencer, said. Spencer, who lived in Sykesville, Md., a
 BROWN-Austin J. Of Emerson, New Jersey, former employee of The American Lung Association, former Country Director of The United States Peace Corp (Uganda and Gambia) Africa Service Institute, the African American Institute and the Institute of International Education. Died Saturday, Februar
 DALLA VILLA-Msgr. Anthony J. Central Synagogue mourns the loss of a wonderful colleague, a dedicated spiritual leader and a beloved friend. Our condolences to his family, to the people of St. Agnes Church and to the Archdiocese of New York. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Presi
 FRISCH-Robert E. Born August 18, 1925, died on February 5, 2002. He was a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law and a partner at Rogers and Wells. He is survived by his wife, Dolly Hemphill and children, Katharine, Robert, Peter, and ten grandchildren. Memorial service will be held at
 MARGULIES-Walter. Died on Feb. 3, 2002 in Palo Alto, California at age 92. He was buried next to his beloved wife, Phyllis, of 67 years who died in January 2001. Walter graduated from New York Law School in 1930 and enjoyed a private practice in New York City interrupted only by his three y
 MARRITT-Dr. Samuel of Somers, NY, died on Wednesday, February 13, 2002 at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. He was 90. Dr. Marritt was a Doctor of Medicine in Brooklyn and at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital. Dr. Marritt was born January 25, 1912 in New York City to Louis and Anna Marotzni
 McKINNEY-Robert S. Age 60. Of Manhattan, died February 11, 2002. Raised in Bayside, Queens, the son of a New York City Police Detective, he had a long, impressive career in computer systems, rising to Chief Information Officer of top financial services institutions. After graduating the U.S
 RATTI-Antonio. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art extend deepest sympathies to the family and associates of Antonio Ratti, who was a treasured friend and colleague over many years. He was most generous to the museum-as an honorary trustee and benefactor, and through hi
 Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of Central Intelligence, died on Sunday at the Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85. General Walters was known for occupying a front-row seat for an array of historic eve
 Walter Fuld Gips Jr., a retired electronics industry executive and former treasurer of the American Jewish Committee, died Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 81. The cause was complications from colon cancer and diabetes, according to his family. Mr. Gips retired i
 Waylon Jennings, the leather-voiced singer and songwriter who was at the center of ''outlaw'' country music, died yesterday at his home in Chandler, Ariz. He was 64. He had suffered from diabetes-related health problems, The Associated Press reported. In a career that began 
 Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of central intelligence, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85. General Walters occupied a front-row seat at an array of historic events in the post-World War II era, as a translator, advis
 Walter Bolden, a jazz drummer who came through the Hartford jazz scene, moved to New York in the early 1950's and played with many of the top names in the field, died on Feb. 7 at a Manhattan hospital. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Carol Graham. Mr. Bolden
 William L. Dwyer, a federal district judge whose imprint on the Pacific Northwest stretched from 500-year-old forests saved from logging by his court rulings to the major league baseball team created as a result of his work as a trial lawyer, died on Tuesday at his home in Seattle. He was 7
 Bunny Allen, the last of a generation of professional hunters in East Africa who prided themselves on having as sharp an eye for their clients' wives as for their four-legged quarry, died at his home on the Indian Ocean island of Lamu last month, his family said. He was 95. 
 BEHRMAN - Darryl. Age 51, passed away suddenly February 12, 2002. He is survived by his heartbroken, adoring and devoted wife Janine, son Greg, daughter Amanda, her fiance Zac Zeitlin, mother Fay Behrman, brother & sister-in-law Grant and Shelley Behrman, mother-in-law Gloria Stern, brother
 DAVIDSON-Alfred E. Born in New York City on November 11, 1911, died in Arlington, VA on February 15, 2002. He is survived by two sons, Thomas and Kenneth, four grandchildren, Douglas, Anne, Alice and Claire, and one brother, Frank. At his request there will be no services. Contributions may
 LLOYD-James W. Age 61 of Darien, CT, on February 12, 2002 after a long illness. Born in Syracuse, NY, he graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia Law School, and served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. He was Senior Counsel at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell,
 SHARP-Samuel Richard. Feb. 15, 2002. For our very dear, beloved son, brother, uncle and devoted father, Samuel Richard Sharp, Esq., 1959-2002, 42 years old, who died unexpectedly. Your life has enriched & helped so many others to realize their true potential. You truly were gifted with a lo
 SHTULL-Jacob, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of our revered colleague and friend, Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation Shaarey Tikvah, Beachwood, OH, whose community he served for 35 years. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Rita, to their family and to all who were blessed 
 STEIN-Marcel, member NSPE, AHES, ASME, passed away in his 101st year. Born in Hungary, was Chief Engineer of textile plants, worked for the City of New York for 15 years and taught at Pace College for 12 years. He had pattents for textile processes, steam and lighting equipment. He is mourn
 Dr. Arnold Zachary Pfeffer, a New York psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who worked to meld the insights of modern neuroscience with traditional psychoanalytic concepts and started a New York center devoted to that effort, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived on the Up
 BALLANTINE-Percy Harper. Age 87, of Oxford, MD (formerly of Andover, NJ), died of natural causes on February 11, 2002. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Anne Brackenridge VanBlarcom, his children, Dr. Percy Ballantine II of Hanover, NH, Anne Piccone of Lakewood, CO, Andrew Ballantine 
 BASHINSKY-Sheldon. Future Tire Company mourns the loss of Sheldon Bashinsky, a conscientious coworker and good friend, his sweet smile and uplifting spirit will remain in our hearts.       
 BEHRMAN - Darryl. Age 51, passed away suddenly February 12, 2002. He is survived by his heartbroken, adoring and devoted wife Janine, son Greg, daughter Amanda, her fiance Zac Zeitlin, mother Fay Behrman, brother & sister-in-law Grant and Shelley Behrman, mother-in-law Gloria Stern, brother
 BURNS-Erwin The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University community extends heartfelt condolences to our friend, colleague, and esteemed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Edward R. Burns, M.D., on the loss of his beloved father. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and S
 ENGELSON-Lillian. I am terribly saddened by the loss of my good friend's mother. Please accept my deepest sympathy for David and his family. Michael       
 GREENBERG - Harry. 83, of Princeton, NJ formerly of NYC, died February 14, 2002 in Princeton. He was with the NYC Post Office for 40 years and a veteran of the army in WWII. He was a member of Garment Center Synagogue in Manhattan. Survived by a sister Belle Byer of West Windsor, NJ and a n
 HALPERN-Sol. Beloved husband of Freda. Loving father of Gail Winston Rudin (Frank), Marvin Max Halpern (Sandra), Judith Cohen (Edward). Devoted grandfather to Cary, Donna, Adam, Tricia, Dahlia, Rachel, Jocelyn, Jody and Emily. Cherished great-grandfather to Jake, Alex, Bailey and Sophie. De
 LAHN-Philip M. On February 15, 2002 age 100. Predeceased by his dear wife Jean. Survived by his beloved and loving daughter Marion; son Daniel and his wife Stefanie Weldon; grandchildren Hilary and Simon; and many nieces and nephews. Service Monday, February 18, 2002 9:30 AM at ''The Rivers
 LLOYD-James W. Age 61 of Darien, CT, on February 12, 2002 after a long illness. Born in Syracuse, NY, he graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia Law School, and served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. He was Senior Counsel at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell,
 MILLER-Charles Myer. Born April 25, 1919 in Springfield, Massachusetts. Mr. Miller, a decorated Navy veteran in World War II and recent resident of Charlottesville, Virginia, died in Charlottesville on Friday, February 8, following heart surgery and a stroke. He was 82. Mr. Miller grew up i
 MITCHELL-Stephen L. On February 13th, 2002 in his 43rd year. Beloved and most loved husband of Ailene M. Mitchell, nee Altman. Devoted father of Stephen, Michael and Ryan. Adored brother of Don, Bev and Bob. Cherished son of the late Ray and Jean Mitchell. Beloved son-in-law of Ruth and How
 OBOLENSKY-Alexander Petrovich. Prince Alexander P. Obolensky, one of the last Rurikides, founders of Russia in the 9th Century, died on January 26 in New Bedford, MA. An eminent scholar, with numerous publications in Russian, French and English, he was buried at the Holy Trinity Monastery, 
 PILATSKY - Sidney. Cherished husband of the late Ella, devoted father of Mara, Diane and son-inlaw Dennis, loving friend and companion of Belle Littenberg will be deeply missed by Nancy and Stephen, Abby and Robert and their children Emma and Kay, Claire and Chloe. Services ''BoulevardRiver
 TELCHIN-Joseph G. On February 5, 2002, age 92. Retired attorney in NY, Washington DC and Sarasota, FL. Also a founder and general counsel of Countrywide and Statewide Insurance Companies. He is survived by his daughter, Esther Baker Fassler of Sarasota, his granddaughter, Andrea Glantz Kas,
 TOLL-Lawrence, 42. Son of Olga and the late Wilbur. Died peacefully at his home in Houston, TX. Lawrence leaves two brothers, Stanley and David. He was a graduate of the Scarsdale School System and attended American University.       
 R.M. Hare, a moral philosopher who wrestled ethical questions out of the murky realm of emotion and into the hard-edged arena of logic, died on Jan. 29 in his home in Ewelme, England. He was 82. Professor Hare had suffered a number of strokes in recent years, his son, John, said.   
 Richard Wesley Lawrence Jr., the founding chairman of the Adirondack Park Agency, died on Feb. 6 in Elizabethtown, N.Y., the Essex County village where he lived. He was 93. A retired New York lawyer and foundation executive and an Adirondacks resident since 1947, Mr. Lawrence was lo
 Wendell L. Marshall, who played bass with Duke Ellington from 1948 to 1955, died on Feb. 6 at his home in St. Louis. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Joan M. Marshall. Wendell Lewis Marshall was a cousin of the famed bassist Jimmie (sometimes Jimmy) Blanton
 Though it is little more than a collection of old, weathered buildings and a dance hall, this Hill Country village has for decades occupied a special place in Texas myth and music, and several hundred admirers gathered here today to remember the country singer who made Luckenbach famous, bu
 John E. Bebout, an expert on state constitutions, died on Feb. 1 in Hyannis, Mass. He was 98 and lived in Wellfleet, Mass. He was involved in the seven-year struggle that led in 1947 to a replacement for New Jersey's Constitution, which critics had called a horse-and-buggy document.
 John W. Gardner, an eloquent voice for citizen participation who founded the Common Cause lobby, championed campaign finance reform and introduced Medicare as secretary of health, education and welfare in the heyday of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, died Saturday at his home o
 Kenneth Armitage, a sculptor who gained fame as part of a new generation of British artists in the 1950's and was best known for his quirky, semi-abstract, often lighthearted bronze figures, died on Jan. 22, the British press reported. He was 85. Mr. Armitage was born in Leeds on Ju
 BONANNO-Guy. On February 15, 2002, at age 58. Loving father of Audrey Bonanno. Also survived by her mother Inez and brothers Richard and Vincent. Dearest and devoted friend of Bob Guccione and his family, and all who loved him. Also survived by his brother Don. Friends may call at Frank E. 
 COLE-David Ambrose. Age 49. Died February 15 from complications of melanoma in Key Biscayne, FL. A graduate of the Delbarton School in Morristown, NJ, and Bowdoin College, he obtained a D. Phil. from Oxford University. A Senior Vice President with Foote Cone & Belding Latin America, David h
 EGGERT-Donna. On February 16, 2002. Loving mother of Bryan and his fiancee Judy and Lisa and her husband Joel. Devoted grandmother of Jesse and Jane Donna. Dear sister of Louis Cohen and his wife Roberta. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.   
 GOODSTADT-George Justice. On February 16. Publisher of Fine Arts. Passed away peacefully at home in Ridgefield, CT, surrounded by his family. Survived by his wife, Alexandra of Ridgefield, daughters, Elizabeth Oelkers of St. Francis, MN, and Kristina of Ridgefield, a brother, Leonard of Del
 JACOBSON-Paul. Beloved husband of the late Arline, father of Linda and Jeff, father-in-law of Rebekah, grandfather of Anna, Craig, Julia, Johanna and Lillie, died on February 16. Formerly of Teaneck, NJ, president of Fabric Chemical Corp., he lived most recently in Boca Raton, FL. His wonde
 MELTZER-Elton. Of Palm Beach, formerly of New York. Adored and adoring husband of Lucile. Loving father of Judd, Wendy and Linda. Very proud grandfather of Samantha and Joshua. He was loved and respected by everybody who knew him. He served in the United States Army three years, Normandy La
 SPICEHANDLER-Neil. An accomplished attorney whose keen sense of wit, humor and intelligence served to help his family and friends in good times and bad. He was a source of strength and support to all who loved or needed him. Loved by many. Is survived by his partner John, mother Ruth, broth
 STEVENSON-John. A dear friend, a man of elegance, style and dignity. Devoted to his dear wife, Isabel and her interest in the American Theatre. Loving husband, father and grandfather whose accomplishments in the world of business and the arts earned the respect of all whose lives he touched
 TOLL-Lawrence, 42. Son of Olga and the late Wilbur. Died peacefully at his home in Houston, TX. Lawrence leaves two brothers, Stanley and David. He was a graduate of the Scarsdale School System and attended American University.       
 Stewart Hitch, an abstract painter who exhibited his work in New York galleries and alternative spaces off and on for more than 30 years, died on Feb. 3 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 61. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Hitch was born in Lincoln, Neb.,
 Howard K. Smith, who was one of radio and television's most outspoken and familiar voices in a long and often contentious career as an anchorman, news analyst and war correspondent, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Slim, silver-haired and handsome, speaking in 
 BONANNO-Guy. On February 15, 2002, at age 58. Loving father of Audrey Bonanno. Also survived by her mother Inez and brothers Richard and Vincent. Dearest and devoted friend of Bob Guccione and his family, and all who loved him. Also survived by his brother Don. Friends may call at Frank E. 
 BRENNAN-Jack (John C.), 52. Of Irvington, New York on Feb. 17, 2002. Graduate of University of Scranton and NYU Law School. Former Deputy Commissioner Taxi and Limousine Commission, NYC. An avid runner, he was finalist for 1980 Olympic Marathon Team and founder of the Central Park Track Clu
 BUCHSBAUM-Aaron. Age 87, died February 17, 2002. Survived by his beloved stepdaughter, Ellen Cannon. Services at Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam, at 1 P.M. on Wednesday.       
 CARDOZO-Sidney B. Died February 17th, 2002, after a long and courageous battle with Parkinson's Disease. Survived by brothers Benjamin M. Cardozo & Richard Cardozo. Also survived by many nieces and nephews and close friends. Funeral private. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to Dar
 FLESHER-Mark. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of this caring and gracious man. We extend our sincerest condolences to his familly, friends and all who share in this loss. Sharyn Mann and Todd Slotkin FLESHER-Mark. ''Beautiful boy''. You are in God's Kingdom. In my heart 
 GARDNER-John W. His friends and admirers at HEAF mourn the passing of Professor John W. Gardner. His continuing encouragement and support and his wise advice were deeply appreciated and will be missed. The nation has lost a great man. Harlem Educational Activities Fnd Daniel Rose, President
 HOLLANDER-Seymour, 88. Of Rockville Centre, New York. On February 16. Devoted husband for 62 years of Beatrice Louise, who predeceased him in July. Loving father of Ron, Marshall, Lawrence and the late Andrea. Grandfather of Mei Ming, Forest and Gabriel. Father-in-law of Virginia & Margo. M
 KYRIAKIDES-Peter C. Born in New York City and most recently of Tenafly, NJ, died peacefully on February 16, 2002 at the age of 45 after a long illness with kidney disease. He was a graduate of NYU in 1978 and received his J.D. degree from Seton Hall University Law School in 1987. He was lov
 LAHN-Philip M. On February 15, 2002 age 100. Predeceased by his dear wife Jean. Survived by his beloved & loving daughter Marion; son Daniel and his wife Stefanie Weldon; grandchildren Hilary and Simon; & many nieces & nephews. Services were Monday, February 18, 2002, 9:30 A.M. at ''The Riv
 LOBDELL-Francis. Of Shelburne, Vermont, 80, Died on Feb. 16, 2002, of renal failure. He is survived by his wife, Adair, by his 3 children, Peter Tillotson Lobdell, of Amherst, MA., Katherine Lobdell Norris of Southborough, MA., and Michael Childs Lobdell of New Canaan, CT, his sister, Brend
 MARTIN-William, 93. Died on February 17, 2002. A wonderful man. Married 64 years to Mary, who predeceased him. Survived by his children Dorothy & Buddy Martin, three sisters, seven grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Graveside services are at Mount Hebron Cemetery, on Tuesday, Febru
 MELTZER-Elton. Of Palm Beach, formerly of New York. Adored and adoring husband of Lucile. Loving father of Judd, Wendy and Linda. Very proud grandfather of Samantha and Joshua. He was loved and respected by everybody who knew him. He served in the United States Army three years, Normandy La
 PUGH-F.C. Richmond, 82. Died Saturday, February 16, 2002. He was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, on March 27, 1919, the son of Dr. and Mrs. Walter N. Pugh. He attended Wasatch Elementary School, East High School, and the University of Utah where he received a B.A. Degree. Following college, h
 SHIFFMAN-Joseph. Born Russia, January 28, 1905. Died NY, February 17, 2002. In memory of our grandfather who crossed many continents and faced many obstacles to make his life here, and who in turn built a home for all of us. We were very lucky to have as a part of our lives for so long, and
 SMITH-Howard K. TV news commentator. On Friday, February 15, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. Survived by wife Bennie, former broadcast journalist son Jack, daughter Catherine, and three grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Committee for the Protect
 SPICEHANDLER-Neal. Nephew, cousin, friend and lawyer. A mentsch whose character, generosity and penetrating wit will be eternally missed. In a world of conformists, he remained an unforgettable individual whom we deeply loved. The Penn Family       
 John Alun Stevenson, a retired publishing and direct-mail executive as well as a patron of the New York theater, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and had homes on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Cannes, France. A native of London, Mr. Stevenson attended the
 Matthew McTee Lyon, co-author of a history of the Internet, died on Saturday on a visit to Seattle. He was 45 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Lyon, an assistant vice chancellor of the University of California, died apparently of a heart attack, the university said. He and 
 BEHRMAN-Darryl G. The investment and administrative professionals of Behrman Capital were shocked and deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our beloved co-founder and managing partner, Darryl G. Berhman, who died unexpectedly of a heart attack at age 51 on Tuesday, February 12, 2002, w
 CARDOZO-Sidney B. Died February 17th, 2002, after a long and courageous battle with Parkinson's Disease. Survived by brothers Benjamin M. Cardozo & Richard Cardozo. Also survived by many nieces and nephews and close friends. Funeral private. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to Dar
 EISENBERG-Joseph. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted member Brauna Fortgang. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 FLESHER-Mark. February 16th, 2002. Our dear, beloved son, devoted brother and uncle, and loving friend, died unexpectedly in his sleep. He was 36 years old. His life enriched and helped many others. He loved his family and friends. He had a wonderful kindness and generosity of spirit, and a
 FRISHMAN-Harold. The Officers and Members of Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the passing of Harold Frishman. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 GARDNER-John W. John Gardner's mark on Carnegie Corporation of New York, where he served as president from 1955 to 1965, is indelible. He arrived at the foundation after his service in WWII, imbued with the optimistic American spirit that this country's values could help transform a world w
 KEISER-Richard. Beloved by his wife Elissa, his son David, and his nephew John. Died February 17 in Mount Sinai Hospital, after a two year struggle with colon cancer.       
 LEKOFSKY-Morris, 86. Passed away on February 17, 2002, after a short illness. Born in Newark, NJ, he graduated from Brooklyn College. He served with the Combat Engineers in W.W. II. After the war, he worked for the New York Housing Authority for thirty years. After retirement, he prepared t
 MARGOLIS-Bertram, 84. Educator and owner of Camp Greylock for Boys, died on February 19 of complications from strokes. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Richland; one sister, Elaine Wickens; four daughters, Margaret Schwedler, Elizabeth Schwartz, Catherine Lalk, Victoria Brown; nine grand
 NABATOFF-Dr. Robert A. Beloved husband of Joan. Dear father of Diane, Ross and Richard. Loving grandfather of Alison, Andrew and Nathan. Devoted brother of Gene Norman, Sylvia Mandelbaum and the late Ruth Lichtenstein. Services on Friday. February 22, 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El Fifth Avenue
 PETERS-A. Gerard, M.D. Age 86, on February 14, 2002 at home in Wayne, NJ after a long illness. He is predeceased by his wife Joan (Bassler). He is survived by his daughter Harriette M. Peters of Wayne. Relatives and friends are invited to attend the funeral Mass on Saturday, February 23, 20
 RAEBECK-William Jr., D.D.S., Age 78, of Naples, FL, died Friday, February 15, 2002. Formerly of Bronxville, NY, he has been a permanent resident of Naples for six years. He was a member of Reformed Church of Bronxville. Dr. Raebeck was a graduate of Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, NY, in
 RENICK-Nancy L. American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and The Tel Aviv Museum of Art in Israel, expresses their deepest sympathies to Jack Renick, our longtime devoted Board Member and financial advisor, on the passing of his beloved wife Nancy. Our hearts go out to Jack and his fa
 SAWCH-Walter S. Jr. ''Skip'', of New York, NY and Rumson, NJ, 49 years old, died from a sudden heart attack on February 13, 2002. Graduated from Canterbury School & Georgetown University. Survived by his children, Alexandra, Kathryn, and Michael, parents Margaret and Walter, sister Margaret
 SHARP-Samuel Richard. Feb. 15, 2002. For our very dear, beloved son, brother, uncle and devoted father, Samuel Richard Sharp, Esq., 1959-2002, 42 years old, who died unexpectedly. Your life has enriched & helped so many others to realize their true potential. You truly were gifted with a lo
 SMITH-Howard K. TV news commentator. On Friday, February 15, 2002, at his home in Bethesda, MD. Survived by wife Bennie, former broadcast journalist son Jack, daughter Catherine, and three grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Committee for the Protect
 STEVENSON-John. Tony Award Productions mourns the loss of our cherished colleague, whose wise advice and sound business acumen help guide the Tony Awards for several decades. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his adoring wife, Isabelle, Chairman of the Board of the American Theatre Wing, 
 SUSMAN-Milton ''Mutt''. Of Palm Beach, formerly of West Hartford, died on February 18. He was the husband of the late Estelle ''Ted'' Susman. He leaves two daughters, Toni Sonet, and Barbara Lubow, a son, Peter Susman; five grandchildren, Karen, Jenny, Vikki, Leah and Mark; and eight greatg
 Sir Walter Winterbottom, the first coach of the English national team and the man who presided over the two most shocking defeats in English soccer history, died on Saturday in Guildford, England. He was 89. Sir Walter, a native of Oldham, England, had a brief and undistinguished ca
 Dr. David Walter Barry, who studied infectious diseases and helped develop what was regarded as the first effective treatment for AIDS, died on Jan. 28 on a business trip to San Francisco. He was 58 and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C. The cause was a heart attack, said Triangle Pharmaceu
 Gnter Wand, a German conductor who was known for his penetrating readings of the mainstream Romantic repertory -- particularly the symphonies of Bruckner, Schubert, Beethoven and Brahms -- died last  Thursday at his home in Ulmiz, Switzerland. He was 90. Mr. Wand seemed uninterest
 ANDERSON-David E. David, who combined moral substance with matchless style, died Friday February 15, 2002 after a long illness. David brought creativity to diverse senior management positions in fields including recording and marketing where, as in his interaction with friends, he had a sol
 BETHILL-Lester. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Lester Bethill, an esteemed member, and extend to his family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 FLESHER-Mark. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of this caring and gracious man. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family, friends and all who share in this loss. Sharyn Mann and Todd Slotkin, FAI       
 GARDNER-John William. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are saddened by the death of their executive committee colleague and distinguished statesman, educator, philanthropist, reformer and leadership advocate. We convey our deepest sympathy to his wife, Aida, his daughters Stephanie and Francesca, a
 HAINES-G. Roger, 91. Of Greenwich, CT, died on February 19, a native of London, he spent his insurance career with Phoenix Assurance Co. and later Continental Insurance Co. He retired in 1976 as Vice President of Continental and President and director of Phoenix London Group. During his car
 LEVINSOHN-Ivan, 71. On February 19, 2002. Survived by his sister, Sylvia Levinsohn Friedman of Pittsburgh, PA. Graveside service at The Riverside Cemetery, Saddlebrook, NJ, Thursday, 1:15 PM.       
 MARGOLIS-Bert. The Camp Greylock Directors, Staff, Alumni, and Community mourn the passing of one of its most beloved and longest serving Directors who passed away February 19, 2002 at his home in New York City. Born May 12, 1917 in Montgomery, WV, Bert attended Greylock as a camper and a c
 NABATOFF-Dr. Robert A. Beloved husband of Joan. Dear father of Diane, Ross and Richard. Loving grandfather of Alison, Andrew and Nathan. Devoted brother of Gene Norman, Sylvia Mandelbaum and the late Ruth Lichtenstein. Services on Friday. February 22, 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El Fifth Avenue
 Peter Voulkos, an artist who elevated ceramics to new levels of abstraction and personal expression, as well as national prominence, died on Saturday in Bowling Green, Ohio. He was 78 and lived in Oakland, Calif. Ruth Braunstein, Mr. Voulkos's longtime dealer, said the cause was a h
 William Davis Taylor, the publisher of The Boston Globe for 22 years, until 1978, died on Tuesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 93. Mr. Taylor followed his father and grandfather as publisher, the third of five members of a family dynasty that led The Globe from its foundin
 As the South Asia bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Pearl moved to Bombay after spending time in London and Paris. But for much of his career he was based on the East Coast, where he wrote articles on land use and transportation, and built a reputation on the witty strength of
 Edmar Mednis, a chess grandmaster who was the first player to beat Bobby Fischer in a United States Chess Championship tournament, died on Feb. 13 in Queens. He was 64 and lived in Queens. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his wife, Baiba. Despite having finishe
 Dr. Harold P. Furth, an architect and leader of American efforts to harness thermonuclear fusion for the generation of electricity, died yesterday in a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 72. The cause was a heart ailment, according to the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, where he 
 Jack Barnaby, who coached the Harvard squash and tennis teams to a host of championships in a career with the Crimson as a player, coach and adviser that spanned seven decades, died Feb. 12 in Lexington, Mass. He was 92. Serving as head coach from 1937 to 1976, except for a brief pe
 BERENSON-Mitchell. Family and friends are deeply saddened by the loss of their beloved Mitchell Berenson who died on February 20, 2002 at the Hudson Valley Hospital Center in Cortlandt Manor. He was 85. A unique personality whose vision and innovation inspired many, he will be greatly misse
 BERKOWITZ-Rabbi Samuel. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He served most of his career as a Hillel rabbi, first at George Washington University and from 1953-1971 at the University of Pennsylvania. We extend our deepest condolences to his children, Judith S
 FREED-Ronald. The Board of Directors of the Music Publishers' Association mourns the loss of Ronald Freed, who died February 20, 2002. He was President of European American Music for over twenty years, and during that time published music by a wide variety of composers. He was a Director an
 KROHN-David L., M.D. Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology at New York University Medical Center. On Feb. 20, 2002. Loving husband to Barbara Krohn. Devoted father of Deborah and Lisa. Cherished grandfather to Martine and Livia. Beloved brother of Judy Lipton & the late Arthur Krohn. Gravesid
 KUPFERMANN-Irving, Ph.D., on Tuesday, February 19, 2002, at home. Neuroscientist and beloved husband of Kirsten, loving father of his children David and Celina Poole, and grandfather to new and cherished Justin Paul Poole, father-in-law to Patty Kupfermann and Jonathan Poole. In addition to
 LOMBARDI-Paul. The Pediatricians and Staff at Lawrence Park Pediatric Associates mourn the untimely death of one of our founding partners. He was always full of the joy of living and generous to all. He will be missed by all of us and the countless children who were his patients. Lawrence P
 MADOS-John. On February 19, 2002. Beloved husband of Suzanne Mados, loving brother of Harriet Nichols of Boca Raton, Florida. Family will receive friends on Friday, from 5-7:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Funeral services private. MADOS-John. The Trustees,
 MARGOLIS-Bert. The Camp Greylock Directors, Staff, Alumni, and Community mourn the passing of one of its most beloved and longest serving Directors who passed away February 19, 2002 at his home in New York City. Born May 12, 1917 in Montgomery, WV, Bert attended Greylock as a camper and a c
 MENGE-John (Jack). Of Lyme, New Hampshire, who was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on March 17, 1927, died this week, leaving his ex-wife Geneva, his four children Rich, Karen, Lissa and Susan, eight grandchildren and many friends and colleagues. Jack earned his B.A. from the University of Ida
 NABATOFF-Dr. Robert A. Beloved husband of Joan. Dear father of Diane, Ross and Richard. Loving grandfather of Alison, Andrew and Nathan. Devoted brother of Gene Norman, Sylvia Mandelbaum and the late Ruth Lichtenstein. Services on Friday. February 22, 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El Fifth Avenue
 ROBERTS-Myron, M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons deeply mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague Dr. Myron Roberts. For 41 years until his retirement in 1997, he was an invaluable member of t
 VOULKOS-Peter. Friends of Contemporary Ceramics are deeply saddened by the death of Peter Voulkos, the leading figure in Postwar American ceramics, on February 16. Voulkos, whose exhibition record spans over five decades, had an international impact as the leader of a revolutionary movement
 WITENBERG-Earl, M.D. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society of the William Alanson White Institute pays tribute to one of the Society's former presidents and the longest serving director of the Institute. Also an admired teacher, analyst and supervisor to several generations, Dr. 
 Heinrich Dietrich Schutz, an art dealer and fine art publisher, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was vascular disease, said his wife, Suzanne. Mr. Schutz was born in Munich and came to New York as a 
 John Thaw, the British television actor known to millions as the crusty, music-loving Chief Inspector Morse of Oxford, died at his home in Wiltshire, England, on Thursday. He was 60. The cause was throat cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Thaw's death occurred almost
 Jonas Savimbi, who was killed yesterday by Angolan government soldiers, spent more than 35 years in the African bush battling first for Angolan independence and then for personal power. Mr. Savimbi, 67, was among the more charismatic rebels on the continent. The burly leader was eas
 Matthew J. Culligan, an executive who held high positions in the radio, television, advertising and publishing businesses, including a stint as president of the Curtis Publishing Company, owners of The Saturday Evening Post, died Jan. 31 in New hall, Calif., his companion, Judith Valentine,
 BERBERICH-Dennis E. of Pelham, NY, former President and CEO of Canada Dry Bottling Company and Coors Distributing of NY, died on February 21, 2002. Born in the Bronx on July 3, 1939. Mr. Berberich graduated from Fordham Prep and received his BA degree in Economics from Fordham University. H
 BOWNE-George D. In his eightieth year. Passed February 21, 2002 at Plainview New York. Survived by his wife Edna and children George and Debra. Mr. Bowne was a distinguished veteran of WWII and Korea and a charter member of the 1st NY Continental Chapter (NYC) Sons of the American Revolutio
 BRAILOVE-Morris. Devoted husband of Sylvia. Died peacefully on February 21st at age 96. Cherished father of Michael and Jane Brailove Rutkoff and beloved grandfather of Adam, Rachel, Joshua and Rebekah. A native of Woodbine, NJ and graduate of Temple University Dental School, he practiced i
 GREEN-Alan J. Adored husband of Lisa Cari, loving father of Adam and Anthony, dear brother of Lynn, devoted son of Edith and Sol and Lorraine and Herb Weitz. Our hearts are broken for the loss of such a kind and gentle soul. Services Sunday, February 24, 1 pm, at the Plaza Jewish Community 
 LEWIS-Bernard, a former newspaperman and publicist born May 15, 1912, died February 11, 2002, worked as a reporter for the Old Brooklyn Daily Eagle and then for the Associated Press. Later he worked as a Publicist for Paramount Pictures, 20th Century-Fox, Italian Films Export, Kingsley Inte
 MARGOLIS-Bert. The Camp Greylock Directors, Staff, Alumni, and Community mourn the passing of one of its most beloved and longest serving Directors who passed away February 19, 2002 at his home in New York City. Born May 12, 1917 in Montgomery, WV, Bert attended Greylock as a camper and a c
 SATIN-Shelly. Our sympathies to his wife Joan Throckmorton, family and other friends at the passing of this loving husband, impassioned opera singer and remarkable gardener. He will be sorely missed. Bill Kutik and Julie Packer       
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/ 61-2/23/81. As long as we live, he too shall live, for he is a part of us. We remember him. Loving Family       
 Willie Thrower, whose only National Football League game made him the league's first African-American quarterback, died Wednesday at 71. He had a heart attack in his home in New Kensington, Pa., his niece, Shirley Thrower, said. Thrower was also the first black quarterback in the Bi
 Alain Vanzo, a leading French lyric tenor of the postwar generation, died on Jan. 27. He was 73 and lived in Gournay-sur-Marne near Paris. The cause was complications following a stroke, his family said. With a light, agile voice and a sensitivity to the nuances of the Frenc
 Chuck Jones, the animator and director who brought to life Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Elmer Fudd, Road Runner, Wile E. Coyote and other beloved cartoon characters, transforming them into worldwide celebrities, died on Friday at his home in Corona del Mar, Calif. He was 89. The cause wa
 David J. Cogan, a theater owner, producer and manager who co-produced Lorraine Hansberry's drama ''A Raisin in the Sun'' on Broadway in 1959, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said his stepdaughter Kim Snyder. Mr. Cogan was bor
 BERBERICH-Dennis E. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member and dear friend. Dennis Berberich served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1985. He gave generously of his time, as First Vi
 CAIDIN-Philip. Animal activist, passed away early morning Feb. 16, 2002, at Calvary Hospital. He had been suffering from advanced prostate cancer. Friends are invited to attend a meditation on Wednesday, February 27, from 12:00 to 12:30 PM, at Crestwood Memorial Chapel, Inc., 33 Spring Stre
 FEIND-Carl R., MD. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Carl Feind, Professor Emeritus of Clinical Surgery and Special Lecturer in Surgery at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Following his graduation from P&S in 1950, he completed
 GOLDSTEIN-Arnold P. Dr. Arnold P. Goldstein, 68, an international expert on non-violent conflict resolution, died February 16, 2002, at his home in Syracuse, NY. He was born in Brooklyn, earned his Bachelor's and Master's degrees at City College of New York, and his Doctorate at Pennsylvani
 GREEN-Alan J. Adored husband of Lisa Cari, loving father of Adam and Anthony, dear brother of Lynn, devoted son of Edith and Sol and Lorraine and Herb Weitz. Our hearts are broken for the loss of such a kind and gentle soul. Services Sunday, February 24, 1 pm, at the Plaza Jewish Community 
 JABLONSKI-Rt. Rev. Monsignor Stanislaus P., a priest of the Archdiocese of New York for over 61 years, died on February 21 in the Bronx, New York. He was 86. Monsignor Jablonski, the former Chaplain of the New York City Fire Department, was born in Manhattan on August 21, 1915, to Francis a
 LLOYD-James W. Age 61 of Darien, CT, on February 12, 2002 after a long illness. Born in Syracuse, NY, he graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia Law School, and served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. He was Senior Counsel at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell,
 MARGOLIS-Bert. The Camp Greylock Directors, Staff, Alumni, and Community mourn the passing of one of its most beloved and longest serving Directors who passed away February 19, 2002 at his home in New York City. Born May 12, 1917 in Montgomery, WV, Bert attended Greylock as a camper and a c
 SCHENCK-C. Newton ''Newt'', III. Long Wharf Theatre's trustees, staff and patrons mourn the loss of Founding Chairman, Newt Schenck on February 14, 2002. One of New Haven's leading public citizens, Newt championed a range of arts programs in the city. His gentle leadership will be missed. C
 WITENBERG - Earl G., M.D. Professor Emeritus. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute notes with sorrow the profound loss of Earl G. Witenberg, M.D., who served as Director from 1963-1992. Dr. Witenberg's service for so many years, while extraordinary, was just one small measure 
 FRIEDMAN-Samuel. 1/12/20-2/24/ 85. We think of you every day. Arthur got married 8/11/01 to Kim Kehl, his lovely bride. Love Eleanor and Arthur       
 Sydney De Haan, a British hotel owner whose idea for attracting out-of-season guests led him to create one of the first tour companies catering to retirees, died on Feb. 16 in Folkestone, Kent. He was 83. His company, Saga Holidays, which has offered low-cost, all-inclusive packages
 Desmond Plunkett, a British flier in World War II who played a major role in the mass breakout from a German prisoner of war camp that was portrayed in the 1963 film ''The Great Escape,'' died on Feb. 14. Mr. Plunkett, who lived in Storrington, England, was 86. On June 20, 1942, Fli
 GALSTAUN-Dr. Lionel. Died unexpectedly on February 22, 2002. Retired from a long, distinguished career as a chemical engineer. He was recognized as a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, an Emeritus member of the American Chemical Society and a member of the New York Acad
 GREEN-Bernard. On February 23, 2002. Born December 10, 1910, in London, England. Founded Eastern Newsstand Corporation in 1944. He is survived by his beloved wife of 66 years, Freeda; children Susan, Michael and Martin; sisters Ann Blumberg and Bea Gottfried; grandchildren Jessica, Justin, 
 GREENBERG-Dr. Reuben. 91, died Sunday, February 24, after a short illness. Our hearts are broken for the loss of this kind and gentle soul devoting 50 years of his life to patients in his medical practice and who served as a military surgeon during World War II. He is survived by children L
 GREENHILL-Thomas R. 67, suddenly on February 21, 2002. Loving husband and best friend of Carol, beloved father of Diane and Thomas, father-in-law of Joe and Gina, adored poppa to Ryan, Tyler, Emma and Joseph. Korean War veteran and Tin-Can Sailor, USS Gyatt. NYNEX retiree and allaround good
 KROHN-David, M.D. The members of the Manhattan Ophthalmogical Society mourn the loss of their esteemed member David Krohn, M.D. His advice, his wisdom and his smile will be deeply missed.       
 MOISOFF-Andrew. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of Andrew Moisoff, a young student in our religious school. Our hearts go out in sympathy to his parents Stephen and Susan, to his brother Daniel and to their entire family. We pray that God will be with them and 
 PATTERSON-James Bertch. Died on February 22 in Florida. He was an adoring husband to Audrey, a devoted father to Lucy and Dolly, and a loving grandfather to Trevor. His spirit and love for life was felt by all who knew him. A celebration of James' life will be held at St. John's Episcopal C
 SILVER-David Aaron. Born February 4, 1913, in New York. Beloved husband of Claire. Loving father to Esther, Carole, Joseph, Renee and Harvey. Grandfather to Annie, Scott, Adam and Jenny. David's generosity of spirit enriched the lives of all around him, and instilled in his family the value
 Samuel Terrien, a leading biblical scholar who was an authority on the Book of Job, died on Feb. 3 near his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 91. He became ill at the end of December, days after sending off the corrected galley proofs of his last book, ''The Strophic Structure of th
 Gordon Matthews, who in the 1970's invented voice mail, which is now used by about 80 percent of large American corporations, died on Saturday in a hospital in Dallas. He was 65 and lived in Austin, Tex. The cause was complications related to a stroke he suffered on Feb. 20 at a hot
 Jerrold J. Katz, a philosopher of language who helped establish the reputation of the graduate philosophy program of the City University of New York, died on Feb. 7 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was bladder cancer, the university announ
 ALBRIGHT-Charles W. CSP. On February 21, 2002 at age 81. Born in Craig, Colorado he grew up in Salt Lake City, Utah. His assignments included years in Newman work at Berkeley, California, Detroit, New Orleans, Morgantown, West Virginia, Santa Barbara and Columbus, Ohio. Fr. Charlie also ser
 BELINKIE-Milton H. Connecticut's Superior Court Judge Milton H. Belinkie, 89, died January 29. He worked until the end and was predeceased by his wife Helen Jiler Belinkie, award-winning cookbook author. A graduate of Yale and Columbia Law schools, he did secret duty in WWII and gained noto
 BUDICK-Max. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Benjamin Budick and Gail Manning, Alan and Chira Budick, Debra and Henry Sheinkopf. Beloved grandfather of Daniel Budick, Sarah and Isaac Sheinkopf. Brother of Harry Budick. Graveside burial Wednesday 12:15 PM, Cedar Park Cemetery, Fore
 JEANETTE-Steve, 71. Of Englewood Cliffs and Silver Beach, N.J., died February 23, 2002. He had a long and successful career working on the floor of the American Stock Exchange, and was a stock specialist and Vice President at Spear, Leads & Kellogg. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. on July 15, 1930, 
 KIELY-Michael J. Of Bronxville on February 24, 2002. Brother of Elizabeth Peterson. Surviving are numerous nieces and nephews, grandnieces and nephews and great-grandnieces and nephews. Practicing attorney for over 70 years and formerly a senior partner at Wormser, Kiely, Galef and Jacobs. 
 KRASILOVSKY - Monroe. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Monroe Krasilovsky, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Harriet, and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary
 LITTRELL-James Franklin, 74. Of Quogue, NY, formerly of Kansas City, MO, died February 19, 2002 after a long illness. Jim is survived by his devoted wife of 29 years, Mary Lou; loving sister Patty and her two children Cynthia and Preston; four loving children Cindy, Jeff, Vicki, and Jill; o
 MALINO-Jerome R., Rabbi Emeritus of the United Jewish Center, Danbury, CT, died February 25th, 2002 in his 91st year. The Board of Trustees and the congregation mourn the passing of our beloved spiritual leader and friend for 66 years. Funeral service Wednesday, February 27, 2 PM, the Unite
 METZDORF-Lyle. One of the most creative people in the advertising business perished in a fire aboard his sailboat. Survived by his wife Martha of Houston, TX, son Lance of Charleston, S.C., daughter Lisa, four grandchildren and two brothers Gary and Larry of Independence, MO. His friends in
 OLIN-Philip E. The Board of Directors, Staff and people served by Queens Cerebral Palsy mourn the passing of Philip Olin. Phil served our agency for almost 25 years as a member of the Board of Directors, as a tireless fund raiser, and following his retirement, as a volunteer in Queens CP's 
 RUBIN-Herb, 68. Of New York and Austin, TX. Beloved brother of Faith Rosalie and Dina. He was much loved and will be greatly missed.       
 TOWNSEND-M. Wilbur. Retired chairman and CEO of Handy and Harman in New York City, died on February 7, 2002 in Ormond Beach, Florida at the age of 90 due to heart complications. Born in Oyster Bay, New York on January 17, 1912, Bill graduated from Choate in 1930 and from Wesleyan University
 TREXLER-Pastor Charles D., Jr. 89. Passed away peacefully on February 20, after a brief illness. Beloved father to adopted son Wanchai Panmunin and loving uncle to Roderick E. Kerr, Jr. He was a leader in the liturgical renewal of the Lutheran Church in the United States and founding Pastor
 Robert Strausz-Hup, a former American ambassador to Turkey, NATO, Sweden, Belgium and Sri Lanka, founder of the University of Pennsylvania's Foreign Policy Research Institute and a conservative writer on foreign affairs, died Feb. 24 at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. He was 98. D
 CHU-Dr. Foo. Of Tarrytown, NY, passed away on February 22nd. The Board, Staff and neighbors of Hamilton Madison Settlement House mourn the loss of their longtime Board member and advisor. He made his most notable contributions to this Settlement in the development and establishment of its B
 FORINASH-J.E., Scottsdale, AZ, February 23rd, 90. Generous, kind, and courageous. Survived by his second wife, Eve; daughters, Melissa Buckingham, Phila, PA.; Meredith VonKohorn (Henry), Westport, CT.; granddaughters Isabelle and Emily VonKohorn; two brothers. Services February 28, 2002 Chr
 KRASILOVSKY - Monroe. Died peacefully Feb. 23, 2002. Survived by his wife Harriet (nee Pion), loving children Lois and Richard, cherished grandsons Scott and Max, caring son-in-law Paul, two sisters Betty Wheeler and Anne Gould. Graveside services on Thursday 11am Beth El Cemetery, Washingt
 LANGTON-Michael J., 59. Of Bahrain, beloved husband of Irene ''Gay'' (Maluski) Langton, died Friday (February 22, 2002) in Bahrain. Born August 12, 1942, in Baltimore, MD, son of the late Harold ''Irish'' and Dorothea (Griffith) Langton. He had lived in Matawan, NJ and St. Augustine, FL., a
 MALINO-Rabbi Jerome. On Monday, February 25. Gifted preacher & respected leader of the Reform movement. Served United Jewish Center in Danbury, CT. for 66 years. President of Central Conference of American Rabbis 1979-1981. Lecturer in Homiletics at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of 
 NALVEN-Maurice A. After a valiant battle with kidney cancer. Mal passed away peacefully on Feb. 25, 2002. Beloved husband of Beverley and devoted father of his sons, Glenn & Todd, and his stepsons, Dirk, Peter, and Chris vanDijk, and his daughtersin-law, Colleen, Svetlana, and Suki, loving 
 RAMSING-Byron L. Died at his home in Palm Beach, Florida on Sunday, February 24, 2002 after a lengthy illness. He was 84 years old. Mr. Ramsing graduated from Yale University in 1941. He served two years in the United States Navy during World War II and retired with the rank of Lieutenant. 
 YASSER-Martin. Born May 22, 1919, died peacefully in his sleep, February 26, 2002 in New York. Survived by daughter Jane Palmese of Manhattan and sisters Rose and Ann of Detroit. Service Friday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.       
 Patterson Ewen, a Canadian artist who combined painting and sculpture to create cosmological images, died on Feb. 17 at his home in London, Ontario. He was 76. The cause was kidney failure, said Jack Shainman, the Manhattan dealer who presented Mr. Ewan's last New York show, in 2000
 Sheldon B. Satin, who helped make cable television popular by consulting in marketing and customer service, died Friday in Stamford, Conn. He was 69 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor, his wife, Joan Throckmorton, said. In the late 70's, when cable te
 Thomas P. Losee Jr., a longtime executive for several large national magazine publishing companies in New York, died on Feb. 2 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 62 and lived in Glen Cove, N.Y., and Gulfstream, Fla. The cause was kidney disease, his family said. M
 Ellis Jones, an outstanding guard and linebacker for the University of Tulsa during the World War II years and a National Football League player despite having lost an arm in a childhood accident, died Sunday at a hospital in Greeley, Colo. He was 80. He broke his neck in a fall at 
 Dr. Irving Kupfermann, a leading student of the way that animals' nervous systems control their feeding behavior and motivational states like hunger, died on Feb. 19 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was a neurodegenerative disease, said Dr. John Koester, a c
 James R. Dolan Sr., a circulation manager for The New York Times in the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was 74. He had a history of heart trouble and died of natural causes, said his son Robert E. Dolan. James Dolan worked for the paper for
 BOLAN-Sean. Age 48. Died peacefully in his sleep February 27, 2002 after a long battle with multiple sclerosis. His courage, unfailing good spirit and goodness of heart inspired all who came in contact with him. Prior to his illness he worked for National Review & was an active member of Yo
 BUGLIONE-Bruce Robert. Age 55, on February 26, 2002. Esteemed Vice President and faculty member at Audrey Cohen College for more than 20 years. His dedication to the College and its students was exemplary. The Board of Trustees of Audrey Cohen College acknowledges his outstanding achievemen
 FREED-Ronald. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Kurt Weill Foundation for Music mourn the loss of Ronald Freed, who died February 20, 2002. As President of European American Music, Weill's principal publisher, he contributed greatly to the revival of interest in Weill's music. Mr. Free
 LANS-Asher B., 83. Died February 27th, 2002. International lawyer for more than 50 years & community figure, he will be sorely missed by his wife, Peggy; children Debbie, Stephen, Alan and Andrea; by his daughter and son-in-law, Maria and Tom; and his loving former spouses, Barbara and Shir
 LAVIN-Nick (Norman). After a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer, Nick passed away peacefully on February 27, 2002 at his home in Larchmont, NY. Beloved husband of Monica, devoted father of Sondra and David, and loving brother of Michael. Contributions in Nick's memory may be made to t
 LOTT-Reverend Robert V. Died February 27, 2002. The son of the late Margaret and Robert Lott. Survived by his aunt Emily LaFleur, and his cousins Joan Kliemisch, Barbara DiFiore, and Catherine Lewis. The Pastor of the Church of St. Francis deSales on East 96th St, and Administrator of the C
 MELLI-Charles R., Jr. Age 59. Of Ridgewood and Sea Girt, N.J. Died February 26, 2002. Loving husband of Sheila O'Shea Melli. Cherished father and hero of Kathleen Mary Melli and the late Andrew Shea Melli (June 2001). Big brother and best friend of Mark A. and Jan Melli. Dear son of the lat
 SINNIGEN-William Gurnee. Died in Vermont on January 26, 2002. He was a member of the History Department at Hunter College from 1962 until his retirement in 1990, serving as Chair for six years. His B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. in Ancient History were earned at the University of Michigan. He was th
 WEISS-Bernard S. Of Riverdale, NY, and West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved father of Jonathan and Stephen. Grandfather of Andrew. Principal Evander Childs H.S. and J.H.S. 13M, music teacher DeWitt Clinton H.S. and H.S. of Music and Art. His legacy will endure through the many lives he has touched.
 Spike Milligan, progenitor of a lunatic brand of postwar British humor that blossomed as the 1950's radio hit ''The Goon Show'' and evolved into a blueprint for antic and inventive sketch comedy, died yesterday at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83. Mr. Milligan was the ringlead
