 Francisco da Costa Gomes, a high-ranking Portuguese military officer whose opposition to his country's fight against liberation movements in its African colonies eventually led to his appointment as president, died yesterday at the military hospital in Lisbon. He was 87. General Cos
 Frederick Moss, the chairman of the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, died on Friday in New York, where he lived. He was 72. The cause was cancer, according to his family. Mr. Moss, a native of the Bronx, joined the securities industry in 1965 as president of the Boston Stock Excha
 GOLDSTEIN-Milton, 86. Beloved husband of Ethel for 57 wonderful years. Devoted father of Howard and Richard and father-in-law of Judy and Candy. Dedicated and loving grandfather of Lee (and his wife, Gretchen), Jonathan, Lauren, Daniel, Robert and Amanda. Cherished uncle, brother-in-law and
 HOPKINS-B Smith, MD. The Dept of Surgery of The Saint Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of B Smith Hopkins, M.D., on July 29, 2001. Dr. Hopkins graduated from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1975 and completed his general surgery training at Saint 
 MARGOLIS-Robert, Dr. Died July 31. Healer, mentor and role model. His wisdom and compassion were a constant source of inspiration and benevolence to his family, patients and friends. He will be deeply missed. Beloved husband to Grace, devoted father to Stefan, Karen and Randi, grandfather o
 MERGENTIME-Lee Jr., 85. Of Manalapan, NJ on July 31 in Freehold Twp. He was predeceased by his wife, Rose Berlin Mergentime, and a son, Charles M. Surviving is a son and daughter-in-law, Lee and Fran Mergentime of East Brunswick; a brother, Max of Bloomfield, MI; and two grandsons, Brian an
 RAFALOWICZ - Barbara. Our deepest sympathy to Dr. Adam Rafalowicz and his son Peter on the passing of their wife and mother, Barbara. The Maliniak Family       
 RIVKIN-Donald H., 77, on July 29. Loving father of David, Judith and Daniel, and their spouses, Marilyn, George Davison and Jennifer Conlin; beloved grandfather of Jessica, Katie, Sam, Alice, Harriet, Florence and Charles; brother of Mary Jane Pollack; and devoted husband of the late Lois B
 ROLLHAUS-Philip Edward, Jr. Passed away peacefully at home in Palm Beach, FL on Saturday, July 28th, after a courageous battle with cancer. Mr. Rollhaus, 66, was the founder and chairman of Quixote Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, whose highway safety products have saved over 40,000 l
 Rex T. Barber, a World War II fighter pilot who was a central figure in the storied 1943 mission that resulted in the death of Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, the architect of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on Thursday at his home in Terrebonne, Ore. He was 84. The shooting down o
 Martin Stern Jr., an architect who pioneered the eye-popping Googie-style coffee-shop architecture of Los Angeles and then brought his exuberant vision to the skyline of the Las Vegas strip, died on Saturday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84. Mr. Stern designed three Ships coffee
 Miklos Vasarhelyi, press secretary to the reformist prime minister,  Imre Nagy, during Hungary's unsuccessful anti-Soviet uprising in 1956 and one of the few survivors among Nagy's close associates, died on Tuesday, a Hungarian government radio broadcast said. He was 83. The cause o
 DeCECIO-Thomas Carmyn, M.D., F.A.C.C.P., D.I.M., on Wednesday, August 1, 2001. A resident and physician in Cliffside Park, NJ for more than 60 years, Dr. DeCecio maintained a private practice until 1988 and also served at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, NJ for over 45 years as, among other t
 HINMAN-William, 56, Buddhist, Philanthropist, Businessman. William Hinman, prominent member of the Buddhist community and longtime business leader in Chicago passed away early on Friday July 27 of natural causes. Mr. Hinman was born in February 1945 in Evanston, Illinois and grew up in Lake
 MALONEY-James D. After a short, but courageous battle against cancer, 72 year old James Maloney of Juno Beach, FL, passed away on July 30, 2001. Born to Irish immigrant parents on February 28, 1929 in Cincinnati, OH, Mr. Maloney carved out a full and meaningful life along with an illustriou
 RIVKIN-Donald H., 77, on July 29. Loving father of David, Judith and Daniel, and their spouses, Marilyn, George Davison and Jennifer Conlin; beloved grandfather of Jessica, Katie, Sam, Alice, Harriet, Florence and Charles; brother of Mary Jane Pollack; and devoted husband of the late Lois B
 ROLLHAUS-Philip Edward, Jr. Passed away peacefully at home in Palm Beach, FL on Saturday, July 28th, after a courageous battle with cancer. Mr. Rollhaus, 66, was the founder and chairman of Quixote Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, whose highway safety products have saved over 40,000 l
 SCHECHTER-Stanley J., of Willingboro, NJ, died Wednesday, August 1st. He was 77. Mr. Schechter was born in Rockville Centre, NY. He was a veteran of World War II, serving in Europe in the Third Army. After receiving degrees in Chemical Engineering from Columbia University in 1950, he joined
 STARKEY-Peter. The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Saltaire are deeply saddened by the sudden death on July 30 of Peter Starkey, lifelong village resident and a village prosecutor. We extend our sincerest sympathies to Peter's wife Renee and their children, and to his parents 
 Wesley W. Posvar, former chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh, who led the university as it went from near bankruptcy to academic prestige, died on July 27. He was 75 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause was a heart attack, the university said. Mr. Posvar served as chanc
 Dan Towler, an All-Pro fullback for the title-winning Los Angeles Rams teams of the early 1950's who combined pro football with studies for the ministry, died Wednesday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 73. He died in his sleep after having attended a baseball game at Dodger St
 Italo Scanga, a sculptor and painter who fashioned much of his work from found objects in a style that blended Cubist and folk influences, died on July 27 at his studio in Pacific Beach, Calif. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said Winifred Cox, a spokeswoman for the Univers
 Dr. Jon Eisenson, who played a major role in calling attention to the speech problems of children and adults alike, died last Friday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Eisenson, at his death an emeritus professor of speech at Stanford University, helped establish the dia
 PARKER-Lee. Beloved father of Mark & David, husband of Emily and brother of Stuart, Gary, Craig and Sue. Memorial service 11AM Friday, August 3rd, Central Synagogue, Beir Chapel,123 East 55th Street. Visiting 10-11AM. PARKER-Lee. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the pa
 ROLLHAUS-Philip Edward, Jr. Passed away peacefully at home in Palm Beach, FL on Saturday, July 28th, after a courageous battle with cancer. Mr. Rollhaus, 66, was the founder and chairman of Quixote Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, whose highway safety products have saved over 40,000 l
 STARKEY-Peter Blair, 38. Beloved husband of Renee Reso, loving father of Katherine and Patrick. Devoted son of John Richard and Elizabeth, brother of Maura Balaban, David and Carolyn. Grandson of Agnes R. Died in boating accident July 30. Celebratory gathering Sunday, August 5 5:30PM in Man
 WEISER-Alan Noel, 69, died peacefully at home after a brave five-year battle with cancer. A dynamic person and talented performer, he delighted Long Island audiences with over 30 years of community theater appearances. A successful businessman and past President of the Furniture Manufacture
 Poul Anderson, who combined his education as a physicist with his passion for Nordic mythology to become a prolific and sometimes poetic author of science fiction, died on Tuesday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 74. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Karen. T
 Charles N. Henderson, an organist and choral conductor who edited the American Guild of Organists' journal for nearly a decade, died on July 24 at his daughter's home in the Bronx. He was 84 and lived in Erwinna, Pa. Mr. Henderson was born in West Chester, Pa., and studied music at 
 Donald H. Rivkin, a lawyer with an international practice who helped build stronger ties between legal communities here and in Europe, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications from lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Rivkin represented fo
 IRWIN-Robert E. Of Garden City on August 2, 2001. Devoted husband of Margaret (nee Dolan). Beloved father of Dennis and his wife Margaret. Loving uncle of many nieces and nephews. Friends may call Saturday and Sunday 2-5, 7-9:30 PM at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 29 Atlantic Ave, Flor
 RAMEY-Joseph F. Age 76, of Palm City, Florida, died August 1st, at Hospice of Martin & St. Lucie County in Stuart. He served with the U.S. Army Air Force during W.W. II. Mr. Ramey was a group Vice President of 3M Corporation prior to retirement. He was a member of Harbour Ridge Yacht and Co
 SALTZMAN-Irving, Esq. 88 years young. Died August 2, 2001, after a courageous battle with cancer. He leaves behind his beloved wife Rae of 52 years of marriage. He was a devoted father to Alan and dedicated and loving grandfather to Joseph and John; adoring great grandfather to Leaida. He w
 STARKEY-Peter Blair, 38. Beloved husband of Renee Reso, loving father of Katherine and Patrick. Devoted son of John Richard and Elizabeth, brother of Maura Balaban, David and Carolyn. Grandson of Agnes R. Died in boating accident July 30. Celebratory gathering Sunday, August 5, 6:00PM, Univ
 MECHANIC-Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.''       
 Robert Miles Runyan, a graphic designer who changed the way that American corporations communicated by designing innovative annual reports, died on July 27 at his home in Ajijic, Mexico. He was 76. The cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, said Gary Hinsche, hi
 Prof. Derek Freeman, who challenged Margaret Mead's famous account of adolescent sexuality in Samoa, provoking a fierce anthropological controversy, died July 6 in Canberra, Australia. He was 84. Dr. Freeman, emeritus professor of anthropology at the Australian National University a
 James A. D. Geier, a former chairman and chief executive of Milacron Inc. of Cincinnati, a producer of plastics and metal-working technology, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 75. Mr. Geier suffered a ruptured aneurysm in his heart while racing his sailboat in 
 ARONOFF-Howard B., D.P.M. Passed away suddenly Sunday, July 29, 2001 at his residence in Chatsworth, CA. He was born January 22, 1955 in New York City and was raised in Oceanside, NY. A graduate of Fairleigh Dickinson University and Ohio College of Podiatric Medicine, Dr. Aronoff was a well
 BANCKER-James W., 81. Of Atlanta died Friday, August 3, 2001. Born in Oak Park, IL and raised in Summit, NJ, Jim graduated from Andover University in 1938 and Yale University in 1942 with a BA in English Literature. He went on to Rutgers University where he received his MBA in Business Admi
 BLOCK-Morton H. Husband of Audrey Ossip Block. Brother of Leila Berkowitz. Father of Ellen Frommer. Died August 3, 2001. Graveside services Monday at Mt. Ararat, Farmingdale, L.I., 631957-2277 BLOCK-Morton. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the lo
 FROMM-Leo. July 24, 2001. The Rotary Club Of New York mourns their President Emeritus. He was a true humanitarian.       
 KAPLAN-Alan H., Esq. Of Chevy Chase, M.D., who, we hope, attained in his 71 years his youthful wish to ''be happy''. He was a supportive and vital member of our family circle on many levels, a loyal friend and our much-loved and loving brother. Naomi and Martin Karp Ruth and Jay Green      
 MAYO-Hyman. Beloved husband of the late Esther. Devoted father to Benjamin, Sylvia, Samuel, Claire and Marlene. Grandfather to 16 and great-grandfather to 24. Died peacefully in his sleep July 27, 2001, at age 95. Lived his life to the fullest, enjoying the happiest of times. Hugs and kisse
 NEMERSON-Roy E. A screenwriter with an unstoppable sense of humor, died of cancer on June 25th in Los Angeles. His friendship, as well as his wit and one-liners, will be missed greatly. A caring son, a loving brother and uncle, an unabashedly sentimental pet lover, and an avid softball play
 PASKOFF-Samuel. The officers, boards and members of Temple Emanu-El of Lynbrook sorrowfully records the passing of our past President of Temple and Mens Club and extends our heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Laura Silverman, President       
 PECK-Albert. July 20, at home, New London, CT, his wife Kay, daughters Susan & Sara, grandchildren Anika & Jesse by his side. For information, call 860-443-1871.       
 RAMER-Marvin M., 81, July 18th in Boca Raton. Beloved husband of Stella, father of Joan and Frances Ramer, Karen Sinnreich, grandfather of Helene, Michael, Kristina and Lauren. A 1940 graduate, he was very active in R.P.I. alumni affairs. He retired as Vice Chairman of the Lummus Company. A
 REHBOCK-Alix. Passed on June 6 in Atlanta, Georgia. Raised in Great Neck. He worked for Revlon, Amirati & Puris, and Ogilvy & Mather as a Commercial Artist and Art Studio Manager. Alix worked for Fine Print and Thinkhouse Creative in Atlanta. Survivors include his sister Alana Rehbock & mot
 SEGALL-Arthur A. The Attorneys and Staff of Loeb & Loeb LLP deeply regret the passing of our former partner Arthur A. Segall. Arthur was a long-time name partner of Hess, Segall, Pelz, Guterman, Steiner & Barovick, which merged into Loeb & Loeb in 1986. Arthur was a dean of the tax certiora
 STARKEY-Peter Blair, 38. Beloved husband of Renee Reso, loving father of Katherine and Patrick. Devoted son of John Richard and Elizabeth, brother of Maura Balaban, David and Carolyn. Grandson of Agnes R. Died in boating accident July 30. Celebratory gathering Sunday, August 5, 6:00PM, Univ
 STRAUSS-Bernard I. Age 93. Died Thursday, August 2, at home in Suffern, NY, with his family at his side. Formerly of New Rochelle, NY, his law practice, based in Manhattan, was established in the 1930's. An accomplished bridge player, he earned the rank of Life Master. Survived by his adore
 RESSNER-Michael. August 4, 1999. He gave of himself to everyone and everything he touched. The Ressner, Van Raalte and Hershman Famil       
 Philip Edward Rollhaus Jr., the founder, chief executive and chairman of the Quixote Corporation, died Tuesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 66. The cause of death was cancer, said Barbara, his wife. Mr. Rollhaus founded Energy Absorption Systems in 1969. He develop
 Bert Grant, a veteran brew master who in 1982 opened the granddaddy of all the good, bad and so-so brew pubs slaking thirsts across the country today, died on July 31 at a hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, where he had recently made his home. He was 73 and a longtime resident of Yaki
 Jack Maple, who helped script the Giuliani administration's crime control strategy, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 48. In his homburg, two-tone spectator shoes and bow tie, Mr. Maple made a colorful and exuberant figure, a throwback to the more f
 Lord Longford, a Labor peer famed for championing social outcasts and unpopular causes, and lampooned as everything from an endearing eccentric to a bumbling loon, died Friday in a London hospital. He was 95. The oldest living member of the House of Lords, he remained active in rece
 AMBROGI-Ron. The Board of Directors of the Goldman Memorial Band, Captain Ken Force, President; Dr. Christian Wilhjelm, Music Director and the Members of the band are saddened to learn of the death of our devoted and dedicated band member, Ron Ambrogi. Mr. Ambrogi's wonderful musicianship a
 La SALA-Bruce. On Wednesday August 1, 2001 after a long illness. For more than 40 years an attorney in Englewood, NJ, he was known for his pro bono and community service. He was pro bono attorney for the Social Service Federation for 35 years and for the Flat Rock Brook Nature Association. 
 MAPLE-John Edward (Jack). At age 48 after a long illness, peacefully, on August 4. Beloved husband of Brigid O'Connor. Loving and caring father of Jacqueline, Brendan and Breen. Survived by three sisters and three brothers. Dedicated over 30 years of his life to law enforcement. A loyal mem
 McGUINNESS-Edward. Peacefully on August 4, 2001. Beloved husband of Soledad and the late Dorothy. Loving father of Patrick, Susan, Doreen, Edward and the late Thomas. Dear stepfather of Ralph. Cherished grandfather of 10. Edward, a proud veteran of WWII, was a Sergeant in the U.S. Marine Co
 MELCER-Stanley. Age 73, of Boca Raton, FL, on August 5. Donations in his memory may be made to the Hillel Day School, 21011 95th Ave South, Boca Raton, FL 33428; and to the Yeshiva High School, 7902 Montoya Circle, Boca Raton, FL 33433.       
 PARKER-Lee. Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson mourns the passing of former tax partner Lee Parker, who joined our law firm as an associate in 1974 and retired from the partnership in 1999. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family at this time of loss.       
 SEGALL-Arthur A. The Attorneys and Staff of Loeb & Loeb LLP deeply regret the passing of our former partner Arthur A. Segall. Arthur was a long-time name partner of Hess, Segall, Pelz, Guterman, Steiner & Barovick, which merged into Loeb & Loeb in 1986. Arthur was a dean of the tax certiora
 Steven L. Ross, a lawyer who was chairman of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association, died on Wednesday at his home in Bloomington, Minn. He was 58. He had cancer, the association said. The group has 35 chapters around the country fighting the disease, better known as 
 Jorge Amado, Brazil's best-loved writer and one of the most widely translated novelists in the world, died last night in Salvador in the northeastern state of Bahia. He was 88. Mr. Amado fell ill yesterday afternoon and was admitted to Alianca Hospital, the Associated Press reported
 DUBE-Georges-Edouard. 69, died July 31, 2001 at Roosevelt Hospital, NYC. A long time resident of The Upper West Side, he had a long carer in investor relations. Educated at Holy Cross and Johns Hopkins University. Active in his later years as a volunteer for The Lesbian and Gay Community Se
 EDELSTEIN-Herman. In Montreal, on Wednesday, August 1, 2001 after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of the late Esther, cherished father of Dr. Martin of Great Neck and Leonard of Montreal. Devoted father-in-law of Judy and Debbie and grandfather to Jeremy, Joshua, Justin, Jonathan and A
 HART-Lawrence. Loving husband of Freda Green Hart. Devoted father of Peter and father-inlaw of Kathy Hart. Stepfather of Meryl and Steven Zalkin. Adoring grandfather of Chelsea, Daniel, Ian, Mallory and Dana. We mourn our loss and celebrate his life. Interment private. Memorial service at F
 HIRSCH-Bert. On August 5, 2001. Beloved husband for more than fifty-three years, of his loving and devoted wife, Irene, loving father of Vivian (and Alan), and Irv (and Janet), cherished Opa of Allison, Sara, and Matthew. Dear brother of Hilda; brother-in-law, grand uncle, uncle, cousin, an
 MAPLE-Jack. The Staff of the Kings County District Attorney's Office joins with the entire law enforcement community in mourning the untimely death of Jack Maple. His creativity, and innovation made New York City a safer place for all who live here. We send our condolences to his entire fam
 OLSEN-Paul T. 68, of New York died peacefully at home on August 5, 2001 after a long illness, surrounded by friends and family. He is survived by his life partner of 26 years, Dr. Deborah Rinzler of New York, and his two children, Marissa Olsen of New York and Matthew Olsen of Demarest, New
 RUBINO-Robert M.D. on August 5, 2001 at age 40. Beloved husband of Debra and loving father of Justin Paul. Devoted son of Robert and Anne Rubino. Dear brother of Dr. Gregory Rubino, Marisa Moruzzi and John Rubino. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Tuesd
 RYAN-Joseph G. on August 5, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Stephanie. Loving father of Eileen, Joseph, Michael, and Brenda. Loving grandfather of 10, and 6 great-grandchildren. Also survived by his devoted sister Molly and brother Francis and many nieces, nephews and friends. Reposing at
 SEGALL-Arthur A. at the age of 96, died August 2, 2001. Husband of the late Natalie Freed. He is survived by his loving son Matthew and cherished daughter-in-law Lila of New York, a daughter Ann Thomas of Joshua Tree, CA, grandson Robert and great-grandsons Sean and Jesse of Tuscon, AZ, gra
 TROTTA-Michele, M.D. Of Juno Beach, FL, formerly of Baldwin, on August 3, 2001. Retired physician and anesthesiologist. Beloved husband of Theresa A. (nee Findley). Loving father of Anna Trotta Githens (John) of Westfield, NJ, and Joseph Trotta of Lynbrook. Dear brother of Bartholomeo Trott
 Roy D. Chapin Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of the American Motors Corporation who oversaw the company's purchase of the Jeep Corporation in 1970, died on Sunday of heart failure at his summer home in Nantucket, Mass., his son, William R. Chapin, said. He was 85. Mr. Ch
 Duong Van Minh, the Vietnamese general who led the coup in 1963 that overthrew Ngo Dinh Diem as president of South Vietnam and later became the republic's last president for a few days before North Vietnamese troops stormed his palace in Saigon, died on Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85.
 Howard Elting, a United States diplomat who in 1942, as vice counsel in the Geneva consulate, was one of the first American officials to pass on to the State Department information on the Nazi plan to eliminate the Jews of Europe, died on July 1 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 93. 
 Larry Adler, a harmonica player of enormous sensitivity whose advocacy and artistry helped elevate the instrument to concert status, died yesterday at a London hospital. He was 87 and had lived in Britain since the early 1950's, when he was blacklisted for his political views and his career
 BURTIS-Theodore A. III. Of Brooklyn, NY, on August 1, 2001, after a long illness. A gifted and public spirited architect, and founding partner of Buttrick, White & Burtis. Beloved husband of Judy and loving father of Theo. In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Burtis is survived by his fathe
 GOULD-James V., 87. Of Irvington, NY, formerly of Dobbs Ferry on August 7, 2001. Mr. Gould owned and managed the Gould Agency, insurance underwriters, in New York City. Survived by his wife Margaret. Father and father in law of Florence Low, Laura and Mark Hoffman, Margaret Elizabeth and Ra
 HART-Lawrence. Loving husband of Freda Green Hart. Devoted father of Peter and father-inlaw of Kathy Hart. Stepfather of Meryl and Steven Zalkin. Adoring grandfather of Chelsea, Daniel, Ian, Mallory and Dana. We mourn our loss and celebrate his life. Interment private. Memorial service at F
 KARETZKY-Harry. Former First Deputy Director of the Office of Municipal Labor Relations of New York City, passed away August 5, 2001. Predeceased by his wife Lillian. He is survived by his children Elisabeth Karetzky and Stephen Karetzky and his grandchildren Benjamin F. Klein and Nikolai A
 MINARD-Everett Lawrence, III. 51, of Brooklyn, NY and London. Laury died August 2 while climbing Mount Rainier in his home State of Washington. Survived by wife Elizabeth Bailey Minard and daughters Sara and Julia, of Brooklyn; parents Nancy and Everett Lawrence Minard, II of Seattle; broth
 MISROCK-S. Leslie. On August 7, 2001, of Chappaqua, NY, and New York City. Husband of Barbara G. Father of Kathryn and Victoria Misrock. Father-in-law of Adam Goldstein. Grandfather of Benjamin Goldstein. Interment private. Memorial Service, September 12, 2001, at 11 AM, Fordham School of L
 MORRIS-Brian K. At age 52 in the prime of his career with Unilever, died tragically from an accident at his home in Manhattan on his return from vacation in France. Beloved husband of Diane and adored by his daughter, Beth. Dear brother to Dawn and Leigh. A British citizen, the funeral serv
 NENNO-Stephen K. ABC Television Network Vice President of Program Operations, died Monday, July 30, at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a battle with cancer. Mr. Nenno, 59, had been with ABC since 1968 and was initially responsible for such programs as General Hospital and This Is Tom J
 RUBINO-Robert, M.D. The doctors and staff at South Bay Cardiovascular Associates mourn the passing of our friend and colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Debbie, son Justin and the entire Rubino and Guzov families. His friendship and compassion will always be remembere
 RUCKENS-Irving. The Juilliard community mourns the death of Irving Ruckens, a dedicated and accomplished administrator of the School from 1968 to 1988. After his retirement he and his wife Sylvia provided generous support for many programs at the School. We all extend our deepest sympathy t
 THOMAS-Carl Wayne. With deep sorrow the Kings County District Attorney and his staff mourn the untimely passing of Carl Wayne Thomas. His unyielding energy and zest for life will be missed by all those who came in contact with him. While an Assistant District Attorney (1993 to 1995), Carl b
 WEISSBERG-Josef H., M.D. On August 6, 2001. The American Academy of Psychoanalysis mourns the loss of a Past-President and recipient of our Presidential Award. He was a dedicated professional who served the Academy, the Consortium of Psychoanalysis, and the larger community in uncountable w
 WERMUTH-Rabbi Joseph. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished and much respected former Ritual Director for more than 25 years. We will fondly remember his wisdom, wit, gentle personality and total dedication to his synagogue, family and community. May his entire family be
 Stuart C. Davidson, who glimpsed potential gold in a 1962 law legalizing the sale of hard liquor at bars in Washington and then mined it by opening Clyde's, a Georgetown institution, died on Aug. 1. He was 78. He died in an Oslo hospital after becoming ill from acute myelogenous leu
 Martin Huston, an actor who appeared onstage and on television, died of cancer on Aug. 1 in Manhattan. He was 60. Mr. Huston made his Broadway debut in 1959 in ''Only in America,'' an adaptation by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee of the book by Harry Golden. His theater credits al
 HELLMAN-Jack. On August 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Anne. Devoted father of Renee, Ronald and Barbara and father-in-law of Norman, Sheri and Lenard. Loving and proud grandfather of Suzanne, Andrew, Michelle, Jeffrey and Sarah. He dedicated his life to his family. He gave unconditionally to 
 KANDLER-Simon, Hazzan Dr. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of our oldest colleague and revered member of over five decades. A brilliant cantor with a magnificent voice, he quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of his temple Beth Emeth of Chestnut Hill, Mass., for
 KRAUS-H. Robert, 76 of Kent, CT. Author, illustrator, publisher and cartoonist. Survived by his wife, Pamela (Evan Wong) Kraus, two sons, Bruce R. Kraus of New York, NY and C. William Kraus of Norwalk, CT and four grandchildren, Parker, Jack, Margaret and Vivienne. Funeral services Thursday
 MINARD-Everett Lawrence III, 51. Of Brooklyn, NY and London. Laury died August 2 while climbing Mount Rainier in his home State of Washington. Survived by wife Elizabeth Bailey Minard and daughters Sara and Julia, of Brooklyn; parents Nancy and Everett Lawrence Minard II of Seattle; brother
 MISROCK-S. Leslie. The partners and staff of the Pennie & Edmonds law firm record with great sorrow the death on August 7 of their most senior member following a long illness. This did not deter him from a distinguished career, a life of full activity and innumerable acts of generosity, hum
 PETERKIN-Noel Shelton, 69. Of Merlin, Oregon, formerly of Los Gatos, California, and Geneva, Switzerland. Born in NYC on November 16, 1931. Died in Grants Pass, Oregon on July 21, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Karen, his mother, Doris Cummings, three daughters, a stepdaughter, two broth
 RAY-William F., A.O; Partner in the private banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. and long active in the international financial field, died at Clark House in Westwood, MA on Friday, August 3, 2001. He was 85 years old. Beloved husband of the late Helen Anderson Payne Ray. Surviving
 ROSENBERG-Stanley L., at age 83, peacefully at home on August 3, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Lee Cohen Rosenberg. He is sadly missed by his loving and devoted daughter Maddi-Jane Sobel and his son-in-law David and grandchildren Elana Stern and Rebecca Sobel, his loving and admiring so
 SHELDON-John S. (Jonathan), 1943-2001. Of New York City and Woodstock, NY. Cherished brother of Mary Ann Sheldon and uncle of Madeleine & Christopher SheldonDante. Loved and appreciated friend to many. He had a kind heart & a generous spirit. Memorial service Saturday, August 11. Call his h
 WEISSBERG-Josef H., M.D. The faculty of the Department of Psychiatry and The Psychoanalytic Institute at New York Medical College mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague. His sound wisdom as teacher, clinician and mentor will be deeply missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Carol, an
 RUDOLPH-Selma and Jack Together for Eternity you shall remain. Thanks for touching my life. The Staff at 80th St. Residence Jack Rudolph walked toward the Path that grew dimmer and darker as each day passed. He grew Older with sadly no recollection to the previous years. He was held captive
 S. Leslie Misrock, a New York patent lawyer who was an authority on biotechnology patent law, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. He had prostate cancer for 27 years, his family said. Mr. Misrock was 
 Arthur A. Segall, a New York tax lawyer who early in his career spearheaded an assault in Mayor Fiorello La Guardia's war on the shadier aspects of New York City's night life, died Aug. 2 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mayor La Guard
 Dr. Josef H. Weissberg, a psychoanalyst and a former president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, died on Aug. 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in New York. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Weissberg had a private practice
 Hans Richard Rathsack, whose personal cheerleading as head of Wüsthof knives in the United States helped make them a popular brand among chefs and cooking enthusiasts, died on Sunday while sailing on Long Island Sound. He was 59 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. His company said Mr.
 The funeral for Jack Maple, the former deputy police commissioner, was to have been held at a smaller church in Times Square, the neighborhood where he first worked as a transit officer. But there was something about the self-made guy from Queens -- the guy who told his people to ap
 FEINBERG-Seymour D. Dr., 85. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Constance Buxer Feinberg. Loving father of Andrew and Kenneth. Devoted grandfather of Caroline, Lance and Dylan. Loving brother of Bernard and Beatrice. Cherished father-in-law of Rikki and Adele. He enjoyed a distinguished career
 HELLMAN-Jack. On August 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Anne, father and grandfather. Little Neck Jewish Center mourns the death of Jack Hellman, our esteemed member. His departure from this place has left our entire congregation shakened and bereaved. Our glory, our splendor has been diminishe
 HERZ-Stephen, Jr. Of New York City. Died August 9, 2001 in New Canaan, Connecticut. Husband of the late Marie Kohler Herz. Father of Marcia Cornel. Grandfather of Hallee Branin. Friend of Dorothy Umanski. Service will be held on Saturday, August 11, 10:30 AM at the Church of Heavenly Rest, 
 JOYNT-Paul J. Unexpectedly on August 6, 2001. Mr. Joynt was an actor who appeared in various plays, movies and television. He is survived by two brothers William and James and seven nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions may be made in Paul's name
 KATZ-Solomon. Died August 9, 2001 at Mount Sinai Hospital at the age of 86 after a long illness. Beloved father of Louise and Richard. Also survived by his brother Phillip & his wife Frances. He worked for the IRS 57 years and was president of the Manhattan Chapter of the IRS Employee Union
 KRUG-Phil. Friends and colleagues in LSNY and elsewhere in the public interest legal community mourn the sudden death of Phil Krug in a car accident on August 7. For almost 3 decades Phil was a vigorous, dedicated staff attorney at Harlem Legal Services where he provided legal assistance to
 MISROCK-S. Leslie. The attorneys and staff of Fish & Neave note with sorrow the passing of Leslie Misrock, a worthy adversary, colleague, and leader of the Bar. Our condolences to his family and his partners at Pennie & Edmonds.       
 MOLOSHOK-Ralph E., M.D. Age 88. Died on August 3, 2001 as a result of heart failure. He is survived by his wife, Margaret, his daughter, Lynn Green, and son, James, grandchildren, Aram, Gillian, Lisa and Daniel and brother, Norman. Dr. Moloshok practiced pediatric medicine in New York City 
 RESNIKOFF-Philip. January 4, 2001, age 90-1/2. Retired instructor in psychology CCNY and avid book collector, he was the quintessential uncle-savant who taught and entertained us all to the end. Unveiling Sunday, September 2, 9:30AM Wellwood Cemetery Long Island (Workmen's Circle section) f
 ROTHMAN-Michael. On August 8 in Enfield, CT. Loving and devoted husband of Gloria, loving father of Mark and Richard, beloved brother of Alvin, brother-in-law of Rita and uncle of Barry. He passed with dignity and courage and will be missed and never forgotten.       
 RUCKENS-Irving. Age 88, died August 6, 2001 in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Ultimate New Yorker, loved traveling, history, politics, progressive causes and the performing and visual arts. He held an accounting degree from Columbia and before retirement was controller of The Juillia
 SCHNEIDER-Dr. Murray. Beloved husband of Beatrice; father of Robin; father-in-law of Jim; grandfather of Sarah and Amanda, brother of Lydia. Esteemed educator. Leader in the Jewish community. Passed away August 8, 2001. Funeral services today 11:45am at I.J. Morris, Inc. in Hempstead. All d
 TROY-Joseph F. Rev. CSP. On August 8, 2001 at age 93. Born in Dobbs Ferry, NY, he was ordained a Paulist priest on December 22, 1934 at the Lateran Basilica, Rome, Italy. During his sixty-seven years of priestly service, Fr. Troy served at parishes in Portland, OR; New York, NY; Austin, TX;
 WEISSBERG-Josef, M.D. The members of the New York State Psychoanalytic Coordinating Committee wish to express our deep personal and professional loss with the death of our colleague, member and friend, Dr. Josef Weissberg. For over 15 years his wisdom, sense of proportion and compassionate 
 Peter M. Hirsch, a former partner at Calet Hirsch & Spector, an advertising agency, died on July 29 at the Jacob Perlow Hospice in New York. He was 65. The cause was thyroid cancer, according to his wife, Patti. Mr. Hirsch was a chairman and a creative director, with Neil Ca
 Lou Boudreau, the Hall of Fame shortstop who both managed the 1948 Cleveland Indians and played inspired shortstop to lead them to their first American League pennant in 28 years and the World Series championship, died yesterday at a hospital in Olympia Fields, Ill. He was 84. He wa
 FEINBERG-Milton H. Age ninety, formerly of New York, died August 9, 2001 in Kalamazoo, MI. Survived by his wife, Rena; two sons, Arthur N. and Seth J. Feinberg; three grandchildren, Lisa, Daniel and Alexander Feinberg.       
 IRVINE-Bonnell. On August 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine. Adored father of Cella Irvine. Loving father-in-law to Hart and grandfather to Giovanna and Hudson. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Tuesday, August 14th, 4:00 PM. Interment private. Contributions
 PIOMBINI-Monsignor Mario G. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Rosalia-Regina Pacis Church, Brooklyn, on August 8, 2001. Reposing at St. Rosalia, 14th Ave & 63rd St., Saturday, August 11th from 1-4 and 6-9PM and Sunday August 12th from 1-4PM. Mass of T
 SELIGMAN-Dr. Harvey G. Passed away at his home in Marlboro, NJ, August 10, 2001. Beloved husband to Patricia (nee Moss). Devoted father to Stuart, Ellen Clark, Natalie Loeb and Andrew. Cherished grandfather to four grandchildren. Funeral services from Menorah Chapels, Inc., 2145 Richmond Av
 Robert H. Rimmer, who wrote ''The Harrad Experiment,'' a 1966 novel about an elite Eastern college where male and female students lived in the same dormitory rooms and did pretty much what came naturally, died on Aug. 1 at his home in Quincy, Mass. He was 84. The book was considered
 James A. Corbett, a rancher and Harvard-educated philosopher who helped start a movement to guide Central American refugees illegally across the United States border, died on Aug. 2 at his home in the Arizona desert, about 30 miles from Benson. He was 67. The cause was a rare brain 
 BRACKMAN - George Martin. With great sadness we announce his peaceful passing at home on August 6th, 2001. Composer, arranger, B.S. & M.S. Juilliard 1948. Military Order of the Purple Heart. Husband, father, and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Julia, his four children Alison, Wendy,
 CARROLL-Richard P. 70, of Kent, CT. Died at home on August 8 after a short illness. Born in Springfield, MA, graduated from Syracuse University; was a member of Theta Chi Fraternity; an artist, he worked for 22 years with Young & Rubicam in both New York and Detroit before forming his own b
 CHAMLIN-George M. Of Deal, New Jersey, died on July 10, 2001. We buried dear George on July 12, 2001-his body, but not his spirit. The man we all respected and loved. The man with a spark whose beautiful brown eyes reflected a light that guided us. The man whose resonant voice called to us,
 FEITELSON-Milton, 89. A former Executive Director of the United Services Organization (USO) and well-known on serving the recreational, educational and welfare needs of the armed forces, died on August 8, 2001, in Santa Cruz, CA. He lived in Scotts Valley, CA after having moved to be with h
 FERRARO-Alfonso. We note with sorrow the passing of Alfonso Ferraro, a long-time volunteer. We send our most heartfelt condolences to his family. Pat Roberts, President Volunteer Auxiliary North Shore University Hospital/Manhasset       
 HONIG-Richard Edward, Ph.D. Died of cancer at The Quadrangle in Haverford, Pennsylvania on July 31, 2001. He was a member of the staff at David Sarnoff Research Center, RCA Laboratories from 1950-1987. Dr. Honig is widely recognized for his study of the vapor pressures of the elements. He s
 HUMMEL-Charles. August 9, 2001, age 100 of Birmingham, MI, formerly of New York. He attended Columbia University and received his CPA with distinction from the Walton School of Commerce in 1923. During WWII, he served on the Navy's Board of Auditors. Retired in 1968 as Vice President and Tr
 IRVINE-Bonnell. On August 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine. Adored father of Cella Irvine. Loving father-in-law to Hart and grandfather to Giovanna and Hudson. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Tuesday, August 14th, 4:00 PM. Interment private. Contributions
 JACOBY-D. Paul. Of Palm Beach, FL, age 98. Retired partner of Asiel and Co. Beloved father of Jim, Jayne, Mark and Debbie. Adored grandfather of Karen, Richard, Jill, Matt, Laurie, Brian, Jon, Jenny and Ali. Cherished great-grandfather of Samantha, Jacob, Sarah, Anna, Nathan and Rebecca. Hi
 KAHN-Dr. Arthur H., DDS. On August 9, 2001. Adoring husband of the late Edith. Brother-in-law of Seymour Rutkin and Ann Teicher. Adored and cherished by many nieces and nephews. We will miss his great sense of humor. Graveside service Sunday, August 12, 1PM at King Solomon Cemetery, Clifton
 KRUG-Phil. The Legal Services Staff Association grieves the tragic death of our beloved brother Phil Krug. A founding member of our Union and a passionate advocate for low-income New Yorkers for more than thirty years, Phil gave generously of his time, energy, intellect, friendship, and hum
 LATIL-Jean Paul. Died on July 22, 2001 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Predeceased by wife Jacqueline. Survived by his sisters-in-law Lise Blum Elson and Genevieve BlumGayet. He also leaves his three children Martine, Catherine and Bertrand; six grandchildren Lisa, Anne, Alex, Alice, Ellie an
 LEMCHEN-Leo. Of Maplewood, NJ and Boca Raton, FL on Wednesday, August 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Eleanor (nee Goldberg), loving father of Marc Lemchen, of Manhattan and Barbara Wolff-Reichert of Buffalo, NY, father-in-law to Deborah Schneider Lemchen & Jonathan Reichert. His memory will be
 MOLOSHOK-Ralph E., M.D. Age 88. Died on August 3, 2001 as a result of heart failure. He is survived by his wife, Margaret, his daughter, Lynn Green, and son, James, grandchildren, Aram, Gillian, Lisa and Daniel and brother, Norman. Dr. Moloshok practiced pediatric medicine in New York City 
 PAPA-Dr. Domenick. A key contributor to the growth and success of Schering-Plough Corporation, died Sunday at his home in Scottsdale, AZ. He was 88. Concluding a career with Schering as Vice President, Corporate Scientific Liaison, Dr. Papa secured licensing agreements with several foreign 
 PATRELL-Donald M., 60. Of New York City and Hyannis, Massachusetts, died on Friday, August 3, 2001. He is survived by a brother Oliver L. Patrell and a sister Carol A. Lamothe. A memorial mass will be held on 11:00 AM on September 8, at Holy Cross Church, Springfield, Massachusetts. Memoria
 PICKETT-Richard C. ''Dick''. Age 69 of Whitewater, WI, formerly of Deerfield, IL, died Thursday, August 9, 2001 at his home. He was born in New York City, NY on September 30, 1931 the son of Carlton and Mae (McRedmond) Pickett. He attended Fordham University, graduating in 1952, and later a
 SIEGEL-Robert Louis. On August 9, 2001. Age 90. The family sadly announces his passing. Private services were held at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 SUSSMAN-Ralph. On August 9, 2001. Beloved brother-in-law of Lili Wronker; dear friend to Erna Greene; a generous uncle to Eytan and Rona. His great kindness will be missed. Graveside services Tuesday, August 14 at 11 AM, Maple Grove Cemetery, 83-15 Kew Gardens Road, near Van Wyck subway off
 WEISS-Lewis F. Age 74. President of H. Weiss Co., Inc. died August 10, 2001, after a prolonged illness. Beloved husband of Ellen Berlin Weiss; father of Dr. Roberta Weiss, James Weiss, and Elizabeth Weiss, father-in-law of Dr. James Edelstein, Jeffrey Dellon, and Lori Ross Weiss; grandfathe
 FEIN-Mitchell ''DA''. Beloved for his generosity, sense of humor and brilliant mind. Sorely missed by family and colleagues.       
 A. G. Dickens, a noted British historian of the Reformation who was among the first to play down the theological disputes of this period in Europe and to emphasize broader social change instead, died on July 31 in London. He was 91. For Professor Dickens, the Reformation was a Europ
 Eric Bedford, the British government's anonymous chief architect, whose works were visible to millions but whose name was scarcely known, died on July 28 in a hospital at Worcester near his home in England. He was 91. As chief architect for the Ministry of Public Building and Works,
 CUOZZI-Howard R. Sr. Of Madison, NJ, and Boca Grande, FL, on August 3, 2001. Beloved husband for 53 years of Joan Loftus Cuozzi. Loving father of Lt. Col. Howard R. Cuozzi ''Bob'', US Army, of Elizabethton, TN, and Martha Cuozzi Perelli of Winchester, VA. Cherished grandfather of Rachel and
 FREEMAN-Seymour S. Age 84, formerly of Longbeach, NY, died Friday, in Sarasota, FL. Preceded in death by his wife, Anita. Was coowner of Freeman & Freeman Inc., Textiles. Daughters, Maddy Rubens, Pittsford, NY; Barbara Rappaport, Framingham, MA; Claudia Valins, Tampa, FL; sister, Judy Goodm
 GRONER-Oscar. The Hillel family mourns the loss of former International Director Rabbi Oscar Groner who touched lives and helped shape the movement during his 30 year Hillel career. He is survived by wife Judyth; siblings Ruth Rosenbaum, Sarah Barach, Irwin and Julius; children Jonathan, Ju
 IRVINE-Bonnell. On August 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine. Adored father of Cella Irvine. Loving father-in-law to Hart and grandfather to Giovanna and Hudson. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Tuesday, August 14th, 4:00 PM. Interment private. Contributions
 LATIL-Jean Paul. Died on July 22, 2001 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Predeceased by wife Jacqueline. Survived by his sisters-in-law Lise Blum Elson and Genevieve BlumGayet. He also leaves his three children Martine, Catherine and Bertrand; six grandchildren Lisa, Anne, Alex, Alice, Ellie an
 LIPNICK-Daniel. Age 85, on August 11, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Gloria Lipnick. His strength, vigor and unfailing good humor will be sadly missed by his children, Iris Convissar and Bruce Lipnick, their spouses Michael Convissar and Eunyce Lipnick, grandchildren Glenna Cohen, Beth M
 MILLER-Harold E. On August 11, 2001, in his 85th year. Dearly beloved husband of Florence, his wife of 62 years. Also survived by his loving son John. Served in WWII in the U.S. Navy from 1943-1946, on the Aircraft Carrier USS Nehenta Bay. He retired from J.P. Morgan Company in 1981. He was
 ROSENTHAL-Richard Joseph. Of Miami Beach, FL, passed away August 11, 2001, after losing his wife Frances three years ago. Beloved survivors include his son Ron (Kay) Rosenthal, Susan Bender (Perry Scheer), his grandchildren Casey and Dylan, and his sister Shari Klarnet. Contributions may be
 Carl Diedrich, who developed a coffee roaster bearing his name and whose business later evolved into a chain of coffeehouses, died on July 31 at his home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 86. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Diedrich's son Martin said. Mr
 Lawrence Minard, founding editor of Forbes Global, the international edition of Forbes magazine, died on Aug. 2 while climbing Mount Rainier, near Seattle. He was 51. Mr. Minard had a heart attack, collapsed and died while climbing with his daughter Julia in a guided party up Disapp
 Louis Rayfield Purnell Sr., who went from decorated Tuskegee airman to curator of air and space relics at the Smithsonian, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was cancer, the family said. Mr. Purnell was born on April 5, 1920, in Snow Hill, Md., an
 ARRONSON-Jules Alexander. Of Palm Beach, FL, previously of White Plains, NY, died on August 12, 2001. Beloved husband of 45 years of Shavie Scher Arronson. Cherished father of Jill Bachman and husband Rik of Fairfield, CT, and Liz Rueven and husband Mony of Westport, CT. Adored grandfather 
 GUIREY-H. H. Prince Azamat. Passed away peacefully in his sleep, at his home in the Bahamas, August 8, after a long illness. He is survived by his widow Fredericka, daughter Selima Goddard and sons Kadir, Sagat and Caspian.       
 HOCHMAN-Bruce. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Bruce Hochman, an ADL Honorary Vice Chair and former Los Angeles Regional Board Chair. We extend our condolences to his wife Harriet, their children and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman Nati
 HUBER-Jeannette Harley. On August 13 at age 96. Widow of Dr. Frank Huber. Beloved mother of Frank H. Huber and his devoted wife Carol. Loving sister of Ruth S. Harley. Graduate of Adelphi University. Graveside service only. A memorial service will be arranged for at a later date.       
 KEBBE-Sally Gracie. Our friendship started when we worked in a play ''Made in Heaven.'' My deepest sympathy to devoted son Timothy, his wife Mary, and the grandchildren Caroline, William and Alexander. Love, Elaine Reiner       
 KRIEGER-Jerome. Of New Hyde Park, NY, passed away at Northshore Hospital on August 12, 2001, surrounded by his wife, sons and family. Born in New York City, on March 6, 1916, he was a graduate of New York University and served with the U.S. Army in WWII in Europe. He is survived by his lovi
 LIPNICK-Daniel. Age 85, on August 11, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Gloria Lipnick. His strength, vigor and unfailing good humor will be sadly missed by his children, Iris Convissar and Bruce Lipnick, their spouses Michael Convissar and Eunyce Lipnick, grandchildren Glenna Cohen, Beth M
 MOLOSHOK-Ralph E., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Moloshok began his association with Mount Sinai in the Department of Pediatrics in 1940. After receiving training in General P
 QUINN-Joseph T. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph T. Quinn, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 ROSENBERG-Roy. The Temple of Universal Judaism records with grief the passing of its Founding Rabbi. May his wife, Ruth, and their children be consoled among the mourners of Zion.       
 ROSENFIELD-Maurice ''Reese'' Ullman. of Roslyn NY on August 12 at age 91. He is survived by his sons Robert and Jay, grandchildren Adam, Amanda, Daniel and Paul. His wife of 60 years, Harriet had died June 26, 1996. Maurice was the oldest of three brothers, Samuel Ullman ''Ullie'' and Jonas
 SLAWTER-Paul B., 85. Retired vice president of Rosston, Kremer & Slawter, Inc., New York City, died August 12, 2001, in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. During World War II, He was a 1st Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. Mr. Slawter served as executive secretary for the SACI. He was an active membe
 THOMAS-Carl, Esq. It is with profound sorrow that the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center Board of Trustees, medical/dental staff and all personnel mourn the untimely loss of Carl Thomas, Esq., esteemed board member. Our sincere sympathies are extended to his wife and family. Stanley Mandel, C
 Robert S. Jones, respected editor of books by several authors, including Russell Banks and Oscar Hijuelos, as well as the author of two novels of his own, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 Dr. Howard Eugene Bauman, a food scientist whose menus for the space pioneers of the 1960's led years later to a quality control system safeguarding earthbound American consumers, died on Aug. 8 at a hospital in Minneapolis. He was 76 and lived in Minnetonka, Minn. The cause was com
 BAKER-J. Edward, 64. Of Ridgefield, CT, August 13, 2001 after a battle with cancer. Retired VP of Natural Resources at Lazard Freres & Co. of NYC. Well known within the oil and gas industry. Graduate of Oklahoma University & a member of Phi Kappa Sigma. Survived by his wife, Ann (Dixon) Bak
 BARNETT-Henry L., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics. He was an internationally renowned and beloved physician, a giant in the field of pediatrics who contributed mightily to the gro
 FLYER-Louis. Devoted husband to the late Ann Schapiro. Survived by daughter, Gladys, grandchildren Jeffrey, Kenneth, Elizabeth and his grandsons' wives, Susan and Harumi, great-grandchildren Jared and Emma Rose. Born in Russia in 1902, he came to New York in 1921, the last of eleven sibling
 HUBER-Jeannette Harley. On August 13 at age 96. Widow of Dr. Frank Huber. Beloved mother of Frank H. Huber and his devoted wife Carol. Loving sister of Ruth S. Harley. Graduate of Adelphi University. Graveside service only. A memorial service will be arranged for at a later date.       
 JACOBY-D. Paul. The Twenty Five Year Club of Asiel & Co LLC mourns the passing August 10 of our longtime friend, member and former General Partner whose loyalty and dedication is reflected in his 81 years of association with the Firm. We express our condolences to his family and friends.   
 MORSE-Rita. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Rita Morse, beloved wife of William Sand. We extend our deepest condolences to William and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 ROSENBERG-Roy A. On August 11, 2001. Rabbi and Founder Temple of Universal Judaism. Author and scholar. Survived by his wife Ruth, children Raoul, Risa, Rani, Rianne and Remi, mother Sylvia, brother Paul, and grandchildren Daniel, August, Jason, Carly & Isaac. Services Thursday, 11:45 AM at
 ROSENFIELD - Maurice. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Maurice Rosenfield. We extend our deepest condolences to his constant companion Georgette Spingarn and to his family. Peter J. Baum, President Gail H. T
 SILVERBERG-Aron L. On August 14, 2001. Survived by his wife, Barbara. Loving father of Marc. Son of Al and Anne. Brother of Alan Silverberg and Jerry Tunick. Services on Thursday, at 12 Noon at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I.       
 BARNOUW-Erik. The Remembrance Service for Erik Barnouw, who died July 19, 2001, will be held at St. Paul's Chapel, Columbia University, on September 13, 2001 at 2:30 PM. Memorial gifts in his memory, may be made to, The Organization of American Historians, 112 North Bryan St., Bloomington, 
 Roy A. Rosenberg, a rabbi who saw intermarriage as inevitable and joyously performed thousands of marriages between Jews and non-Jews, died on Saturday from irregular heart rhythms while driving his car. He was 70. His son Raoul said the car then crashed into a tree, slightly injuri
 Dr. Seymour L. Wolfbein, a federal economist and authority on employment, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing home in Potomac, Md. He was 85 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. Wolfbein joined the Department of Labor in Washington in 1942 and left it in 1967 for teaching. For years he was the
 Earl Anthony, professional bowling's No. 1 title-winner and its first $1 million man, was found dead Tuesday at a friend's home in New Berlin, Wis., having fallen down a flight of stairs. He was 63. The friend, Ed Baur, said he discovered Mr. Anthony's body at the bottom of the stai
 Jack N. James, a rocket engineer who oversaw the United States' first interplanetary missions, to Venus and Mars, died on Aug. 7 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80 and lived in the nearby community of La Cañada. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. Mr. James spent
 BARNETT-Henry L., M.D. The Department of Pediatrics of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University & the Montefiore Medical Center mourns the loss of our beloved teacher, scientist, author, and humanitarian. As the founding Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics at the A
 CAMPBELL-Alan Lockhart, Jr. Died on Tuesday, August 14 at his home in Falls Village, Connecticut, in his 74th year. He is survived by his sisters Marion C. Strong and Jessie C. Sibert, as well as nephews Edward M. Strong, William C. Strong, William C. Sibert, Jr., Alan C. Sibert, John W. Si
 HALL-Kevin (Sky). Age 41. Loving husband of Sharie Hall. Beloved father of Skyler Marie and Kolby Taylor Hall. Dear son of Sonny and Maureen Hall. Fond nephew of Robert A. Hall, and Alice Hall. Family will receive friends Thursday and Friday from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at The Williams Funeral Hom
 KARLAN-Stewart. The members of SSTT mourn the death of Stewart Karlan, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our condolences to his wife Jacqueline, his children Eric and Liz, Evan, and Ed and Karen, and the family. Stephen A. Klein, Rabbi Andrew J. Goodman, President       
 O'LOUGHLIN - Michael J.K., Professor of Literature at the State University of New York at Purchase, died Monday, August 13, 2001, at Greenwich Hospital. He was 64 years old. Michael was born October 22, 1936, in Forest Hills, NY, to Michael J. & Margaret (Langan) O'Loughlin. He received his
 ROSENBERG-Roy A. On August 11, 2001. Rabbi and Founder Temple of Universal Judaism. Author and scholar. Survived by his wife Ruth, children Raoul, Risa, Rani, Rianne and Remi, mother Sylvia, brother Paul, and grandchildren Daniel, August, Jason, Carly & Isaac. Services Thursday, 11:45 AM at
 STATTER-Humphrey. Died on Tuesday, August 14, 2001 in Greenwich, CT at the age of 93. He was born in Sioux City, IA, and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College, and Harvard Law School. During W.W. II, he served as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy. Until his retiremen
 DIMSTON-Blanche. Tell me ye knowing and discerning few where I may find a friend that's firm and true who does stand by me when in distress and then his love and friendship most express.       
 Dr. Richard Edward Honig, who  identified the vapor pressures of many of the chemical elements and created a widely used reference table of the results, died on July 31 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his wife, Joan, said. In 1957, while at the
 Robert Kraus, a children's book author and a cartoonist, illustrator and publisher, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing home in Kent, Conn. He was 76 and had lived in Manhattan in recent years. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son C. William Kraus. Mr. Kraus wrote, i
 Representative Floyd D. Spence, a South Carolina Republican who was chairman of the House Armed Services Committee until earlier this year and used the post to call for a larger military budget and a national missile-defense program, died today at a hospital in Jackson, Miss., after emergen
 Nicholas Orloff, a dancer, ballet master and teacher whose career spanned many companies and eras, died on Tuesday at the Tolstoy Foundation in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Orloff was well known for his dancing of the Drummer, a character he originated in David Lichine's 1940
 BARNETT-Henry L., M.D. The Division of Pediatric Nephrology of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine records with deep sorrow the passing of our mentor, colleague and friend. His leadership led to the establishment of pediatric nephrology in this 
 CAMPBELL-Alan Lockhart, Jr. Died on Tuesday, August 14 at his home in Falls Village, Connecticut, in his 74th year. He is survived by his sisters Marion C. Strong and Jessie C. Sibert, as well as nephews Edward M. Strong, William C. Strong, William C. Sibert, Jr., Alan C. Sibert, John W. Si
 de CASTRO - Robert Massy Joseph, 94. On 14 August 2001 in Brookhaven, GA., widower of Margaret Adams Walker, survived by cherished stepdaughter Ann Crowley Thorpe, New Milford, Connecticut, and cousins Capt J. Edmund de Castro, Jr., USNR (Ret), Julian E. de Castro, Alicia de Castro Kwietnie
 HALL-Kevin (Sky). Age 41. Loving husband of Sharie Hall. Beloved father of Skyler Marie and Kolby Taylor Hall. Dear son of Sonny and Maureen Hall. Fond nephew of Robert A. Hall, and Alice Hall. Family will receive friends Thursday and Friday from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at The Williams Funeral Hom
 KARP-H. Jack. On August 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Rose Karp. Loving father of Richard Reed & Dr. Marvin Karp. Adoring grandfather of Stacey & Courtney Karp. Dear brother of Arthur and Milton Karp and the late Samuel Karp, Dr. Lewis Park and Linda Reiss. Funeral service on Sunday, August 
 STATTER-Humphrey. Died on Tuesday, August 14, 2001 in Greenwich, CT at the age of 93. He was born in Sioux City, IA, and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College, and Harvard Law School. During W.W. II, he served as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy. Until his retiremen
 STEELMAN-Max Randolph, Jr. Died August 16 at age 66. He is survived by his wife, Shirlee, son, Max Randolph III, daughter-in-law, Kelly & grandson, Blake. Visitation will be at Follett Funeral Home, Westhampton Beach on Friday, August 17 from 7-9 P.M. Graveside service will be at the Westha
 TITONE-Rev. Robert A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of a priest of the Diocese on August 14th, 2001. Reposing at Frederick Funeral Home, 192-15 Northern Blvd., Flushing, NY, on Friday, August 17, 2-5 and 7-10 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Gabriel Church, 26-26 98th St., East Elmhurs
 Dr. Henry Lewis Barnett, a pediatrician who was an expert on the diagnosis and treatment of kidney disease in children, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 87. Dr. Barnett, who lived in Manhattan, was considered by many in his field to be the father
 Flip Phillips, a tenor saxophonist who was one of the last links to the swing era and who gained his greatest fame through his performances in the epic Jazz at the Philharmonic concerts of the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 86 and lived in Pomp
 Jim Hughes, a hard-throwing relief pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the 1950's who set a franchise record for saves that endured for 35 years, died Monday in Worth, Ill. He was 78. Hughes, who lived in Crestwood, Ill., a suburb of Chicago, had a heart attack while driving his car
 Marty Geltman, an ordinary man who faced death in an extraordinary way, with a living funeral in June attended by 200 family members and friends after learning his cancer was terminal, died at home in West Orange, N.J., on Wednesday. He was 65. Mr. Geltman taught for 34 years at Spr
 Prince Albert Taylor Jr., a retired United Methodist bishop who was the first black president of the Council of Bishops of the Methodist Church, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Somers Point, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Ocean City, N.J. He was bishop of New Jersey when he was elec
 BRODERICK-James. 74. Died on August 17, 2001. He is survived by his loving wife Mary Broderick of 42 years; beloved father of his children James, Una and Kieran and his spouse Dardi and grandson Neil Stewart. He is also survived by his brothers and sisters; Joan Rompalski, Nan Kester, Louis
 CAHILL-Charles A. The Board of Trustees and staff of Studio in a School note with sorrow the passing of Charles Cahill, father of their beloved Executive Director, Tom Cahill. They extend their deepest sympathies to Tom, his son Adam, and to the entire family. Agnes Gund, Founder Roy B. Sim
 DICK-Frederick S. On August 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Marion and his late wife Ruth. Father to Barbara and Michael. Grandfather to Alexandra, Matthew, Rebekka & Sofia. Born in Toronto, Canada, September 5, 1913. He practiced medicine for 62 years including during his service in the U.S. 
 GILLIS-Norman. Professor emeritus of anesthesiology and pharmacology at Yale University School of Medicine and adjunct professor of medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine, died in Boston at age 68 on August 16, 2001 after a short illness. Recognized nationally as a specialist in pu
 GOLDSTEIN-Ruth. On behalf of the children and families of Chai Lifeline we express our heartfelt condolences to our good friend and benefactor, Mr. Michael Goldstein, Chairman of the Board of Toys R Us, on the recent loss of his dear mother. May he be comforted among the mourners of Zion. R
 HOUGHTON-Donald E., 84. Formerly of Mattituck, Long Island, NY, died Sunday. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he was the widower of Helen Evensen Houghton. He was a retired architect for Ebasco Services, NYC. Memorial services will be held 2:00 PM September 15 in the Mattituck Presbyterian Church, 126
 POMARICO-James Michael, MD. Age 64, of New York City, died on Wednesday, August 15, 2001 in Presbyterian Hospital, NY. Dr. Pomarico attended the Columbus Boys Choir School in Princeton, NJ in the early stage of the school's development. As a student he traveled throughout the U.S. with the 
 TILLIM-Sidney. Painter and critic. On August 16th in his 76th year. Dearly beloved husband of Diane Radycki-Tillim and the late Muriel Sharon. He is survived by his cherished niece Dena Dekel, the loving and supportive Tillim-Karlin family, and 38 years of devoted Bennington College student
 WEISS-Herbert J., Rabbi. On August 15, 2001. Formerly Rabbi of Temple Anshe Emeth of Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and Temple Emanu-El of Sarasota, Florida. Founder of Herbert J. Weiss Associates of New York, a financing consulting firm. Beloved husband of Deborah. Devoted father of David. Services
 BARNETT-Henry L., M.D. the National Kidney Foundation of NY/ NJ, Inc. mourns the loss of our founding member and the first Chairman of our Medical Advisory Board. His presence and leadership was a sparkling light at a time when parents of children with Kidney Disease had no hope. Through hi
 CEROW-Vincent E. Attorney, on August 18, 2001. Graduated 1934 Dartmouth College. Survived by his wife Katharine of Stamford, CT, sons Richard C. of Coco Beach, FL, Stephen P. of Rockville Centre, LI, Peter T. of Norwalk, CT, Robert D. of Boston, MA, seven grandchildren and one greatgrandchi
 COLE-Kenneth Reese Jr. 63, beloved husband, father and grandfather, of Willsboro, NY, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died peacefully in his sleep at his summer home on Thursday, August 16, 2001. He was born in NYC, on January 27, 1938. Ken grew up in Scarsdale, NY, and Westfield, NJ. He graduat
 CYMROT-Louis T., 92. On August 3, in Lauderhill, FL. Adored husband of Doris, beloved brother and uncle. Graduate of Brooklyn Law School. Former Vice President of Hertz and Co. Respected and admired by all who knew him. CYMROT-Louis T., 92. Of Lauderhill, FL. passed away August 3, 2
 DEAN-E. Douglas, Ph.D. August 15, 2001. The Board and members of the American Society for Psychical Research (ASPR) mourn the passing of E. Douglas Dean, Ph.D. Dr. Dean was a much beloved man of science who will be greatly missed; his wisdom, graciousness and lifetime commitment to research
 DEANE-Hugh Gordon, Jr, 84, a journalist, died June 25. He wrote two books, ''Good Deeds and Gunboats'' and ''The Korean War 1945-1953'' and contributed to The Nation, Christian Science Monitor and others. He was a founder of the U.S.-China Peoples Friendship Association and chief editor of 
 KLINGER-Dr. Harold Edward. Of New York City. 5 March 1918-16 August 2001. Beloved husband of Constance. Dear father of Bettina, Stefan, Jacqueline, Roxanne, and David. Decorated World War II Officer. Devoted his life to the practice of medicine and humanity for which he will always be remem
 MILLER-Dr. Brewster S. A retired, medical director died on Monday, August 6 while at his daughter's home in Mystic, CT of cancer. He was 82. Born in Winthrop, MA and raised in Springfield, MA, Dr. Miller graduated from Tufts University in 1941 and received his MD from Columbia University in
 MURRAY-Andrew J.G., seventynine, of Lakewood, NJ formerly of Forest Hills, NY on August 14, 2001. Survived by his wife D. Mary (nee McGrail), son Kip of Groton, MA, daughter Kerry McErlean of Columbia, MD, Kim Giblette of Yorktown, NY, the late Kristen DeMilt and seven grandchildren.       
 POMARICO-James Michael, MD. Age 64, of New York City, died on Wednesday, August 15, 2001 in Presbyterian Hospital, NY. Dr. Pomarico attended the Columbus Boys Choir School in Princeton, NJ in the early stage of the school's development. As a student he traveled throughout the U.S. with the 
 RICHMAN-Rabbi Milton, DHL, DD, 80, Saturday, August 11, 2001, in Winchester, VA. Husband of the late Janet Kerber. Spiritual leader of Temple Hesed, Scranton, PA, for 31 years. Devoted to the teaching of Jewish life and values, he worked for social justice, civil rights, and established ecu
 ROSENFIELD-Maurice ''Reese'' Ullman. Of Roslyn NY on August 12 at age 91. He is survived by his sons Robert & Jay, grandchildren Adam, Amanda, Daniel and Paul. His wife of 60 years, Harriet had died June 26, 1996. For the last five years, he lived with his devoted, significant other, George
 SHATAN-Chaim F., M.D. Loving husband of Norma, beloved father of Gregory, Gabrielle, Jessica and Jeremy. Dear father-in-law of Deborah, Seymour and Karen. Adored grandpa and zaide of Nicholas, Max, David, Sarah, Jacob, Hannah and Noah. Services on Sunday, August 19, 11:15 AM at ''The Rivers
 TILLIM-Sidney. Painter and critic. On August 16th in his 76th year. Dearly beloved husband of Diane Radycki-Tillim and the late Muriel Sharon. He is survived by his cherished niece Dena Dekel, the loving and supportive Tillim-Karlin family, and 28 years of devoted Bennington College student
 ZWEIFACH-Bernard A. On August 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Honey. Devoted father, adoring grandfather and uncle. Former owner of World-Wide Freight Forwarding. Active supporter of Israel. Respected and loved throughout the world by all who knew him.       
 Rabbi Avrohom Pam, an elder of the Orthodox Jewish community in the United States, died early Friday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 88 and lived in Flatbush. The cause was cancer, said Abraham Biderman, his longtime student. Rabbi Pam was a member of the Co
 Donald Woods, the crusading white newspaper editor who championed the black anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko, died in England today. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, his eldest daughter, Jane, told The Associated Press. The friendship of the white editor and the b
 BROCKIE-Edward Simmons, Jr. Died on August 15, 2001, at the age of 75 in West Barnstable, MA. Formerly of Englewood, NJ; he also resided in Vero Beach, FL. He attended the Englewood School for Boys, and was a graduate of Phillips Andover Academy, Andover, MA. Upon graduation from Yale Unive
 COLE-Kenneth Reese Jr. 63, beloved husband, father and grandfather, of Willsboro, NY, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, died peacefully in his sleep at his summer home on Thursday, August 16, 2001. He was born in NYC, on January 27, 1938. Ken grew up in Scarsdale, NY, and Westfield, NJ. He graduat
 CONDE-Victor. 63, Brazilian banker, naturalized American, of Katonah, NY, passed away on August 16, 2001, after a short illness. He was loved and will be missed by his friends Dorothy Marelli, Ruth Renner, David Stanford, Kathi and Kinny McQuade. Funeral private.       
 HERRINGTON-Stephen C. Loving husband of Annette C. Piecora. Devoted father of Stephen C. and Christopher R. Herrington. Friend to many and a dedicated teacher and collector. He will be dearly missed. Memorial service Tuesday, August 21, 3:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, the Funeral Chapel, 107
 McALEER-Joseph J. Died on August 17, 2001, in Greenwich, CT, at the age of 72 after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving and devoted father of four sons, Andrew, Gregory, Joseph, Jr., and David; loving and devoted father-in-law to Valerie and Christina; loving and devoted grandfather to 
 MOORE-Philip Walsh. Died July 18, 2001, of cancer at Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. Graduated Princeton University Magna Cum Laude in 1942. Enlisted in U.S. Navy 1941 and served as commanding officer of a sub-chaser in both the Atlantic and Pacific. Phi Beta Kappa Junior year, Lyman Biddle Scholar
 PAM-HaRav Avrohom. The Board of Directors and administration at Just One Life, Inc (USA and Israel), record with profound sorrow the passing of its Rabbinical advisor, HaRav Avrohom Pam, Rosh Yeshiva Torah V'Daath. Just One Life is an organization dedicated to helping pregnant women in cris
 PERRY-Arnold Bernard. Born April 25, 1925. Died August 17, 2001. Arnold Perry passed away at the age of 76 after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife Muriel (Sonnenblick) Perry; his three children, David Mark Perry, Richard Cayne Perry and Jennifer 
 SCHUMAN-Bernard. On August 19, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Marcia, loving father of Elinor and Robert, proud grandfather of Sonia and Jonathan. Respected and loved by all who knew him.       
 Peter Bergson, a Zionist who crusaded in the United States on behalf of Jews in Europe during World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Kfar Shmaryahu, Israel, a Tel Aviv suburb. He was 86. Mr. Bergson, who was known in Israel by his Hebrew name, Hillel Kook, was born in 1915 in
 Sidney Tillim, an artist best known for his revival of history painting in the 1970's and a critic much admired for his lucid prose and independent outlook, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications following surgery, said his wife,
 E. T. Hall, an archaeologist and art historian who devised scientific tools used to unmask the fraudulent Piltdown Man and to try to determine the Shroud of Turin's age, died Aug. 11 in Oxford, England. He was 77. Dr. Hall was a principal architect of archaeometry, the discipline th
 BAZELL-Honorable Michael P., passed away peacefully in San Francisco at UCSF on August 19th, 2001. Survived by his wife Jeannine, his children Jacelyn, Andrew, Frederika, Paul, Diana, Julie, Mario and Janine; his grandchildren Danielle, Jillian, Vanessa, Aimee and Matthew. He was dedicated 
 BERNHARDT-Mortimer, 81, of West Bloomfield, MI, died August 16, 2001. He was a jewelry dealer for 50 years. He is survived by his wife Jacqueline Bernhardt, sons Ric (Gail) Bernhardt, Greg Bernhardt, and granddaughter Justine Bernhardt. Graveside services today 10:30 AM at Beth Kehillah Cem
 BIRNS-Bernard, Esq. On August 19, 2001 at the age of 85. Loving uncle of Bruce Birns, Douglas and Jody Birns, Stephen Baum, and Michela Catalano. Devoted great uncle of Laurie Baum, Alison and Robbie Birns. Visitation Tuesday 7 PM to 9PM. Service on Wednesday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 
 CALISCH-Budd, 76, died at his home in Manhattan, August 3, 2001 after a lengthy illness. He was diagnosed with throat cancer in 1993. Budd Calisch was a prominent New York public relations and event planning specialist. His company represented many wellknown brands and companies and organiz
 MANDEL-Eugene. Of New Rochelle NY on August 19, 2001. He passed away peacefully with his family by his side after a long illness. Beloved husband of Olga. Devoted father of Kenneth and his wife Carole and Richard and his wife Brenda. Loving grandfather of Wendy, Laura, Jodi, Aimee and Scott
 NAAMA-Hassan, M.D. The Faculty and Staff of Weill Cornell Medical College in New York City, the Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar, NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital and the Department of Surgery of New York Weill Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear frien
 SMYTH-James Valentine. On August 18, 2001, at 98 years of age. Devoted husband of Ella, with whom he is reunited, for 50 years. Beloved father, friend and counselor to James Kevin. Loving grandfather to Sara Elisabeth. Beloved brother to John, Catherine and Dorothy. Beloved uncle to three g
 STERN-Ralph Louis. March 2, 1922-August 17, 2001. Of Melbourne Beach, FL, formerly of Westchester, IL and Montclair, NJ. Retired businessman. Founder and Chairman of Kappa Products Corp., Chicago, IL. He was predeceased by his wife, Jacqueline. He is survived by his three sons, Peter, Paul 
 TILLIM-Sidney. A superbly gifted artist with a uniquely American vision. He painted scenes depicting figures from The American Revolution, paintings not applauded by the art scene then or now. My respect for his courage, and artistic integrity has grown over 47 years. His last exhibit of pa
 Dr. Patrick Wall, a British neurophysiologist and educator whose research centered on the nature of pain, died on Aug. 8. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, according to British press reports. Dr. Wall, of London, was among the first to undertake a systematic study of
 Sir Fred Hoyle, one of the most creative and provocative astrophysicists of the last half century, who helped explain how the heavier elements were formed and gave the name Big Bang, meant to be derisive, to the theory of cosmic origin he vehemently opposed, died on Monday in Bournemouth, E
 Morris Golde, a businessman and friend of the arts, who supported organizations like the Erick Hawkins Dance Foundation and the New York Festival of Song, of which he was a board member, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. Though business was Mr. Golde's profession
 BIRNS-Bernard, Esq. On August 19, 2001 at the age of 85. Loving uncle of Bruce Birns, Douglas and Jody Birns, Stephen Baum, and Michela Catalano. Devoted great uncle of Laurie Baum, Alison and Robbie Birns. Visitation Tuesday 7 PM to 9PM. Service on Wednesday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 
 BLANKINSHIP-W.H. (John). Age 69 of Denville, died of lung cancer on August 21st. A leading figure in the New York printing industry, John and his wife ran Museum Press. He formerly held supervisory positions at Midwestern Litho, Corporate Printing, Sanders Printing, & Panorama Press. Surviv
 BRANDRUP-Clair L. Passed away peacefully at his home in San Francisco, CA on August 13, 2001 at the age of 86 after a long and fulfilling life. Loving father of Douglas W. Brandrup of Stamford, CT and Judith Claire Kerwin of San Francisco, CA. Devoted and loving grandfather to Kendra Claire
 DANES-Peter. Beloved husband and father, died on August 20, 2001 at the age of 74. Peter was born in Czechoslovakia, but was forced to leave during World War II. He came to America as a young man in search of a better life. Peter went on to graduate from both Harvard and Harvard Business Sc
 FRIEDMAN-Sam. On August 20, 2001. Survived by his loving wife, Marcy; children, Amy (Jeffrey), Andrew (Dorothy) and Richard; grandchildren, Michael, Ryan, Katie and Jenny. He will live in our hearts forever. Services Thursday, 11:30 AM, at Boulevard, Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn. FRIED
 MENDELSON-Nathaniel (Tom) H. Age 92, of Boca Raton, FL., formerly of New York City, died August 20, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Yvette M. Mendelson. Dear brother of Jesse Mendelsohn, Albany, NY. Cherished uncle of Lori (Steven) Strong and Allan (Eileen) Mendelsohn. He started his care
 MILSTEIN-Henrietta. The entire YPO Metro Forum of Stephen Milstein wishes to extend with sadness our heartfelt condolences on the passing of his mother Henrietta. Andrew Klein Conrad Foa Walter Gardiner Joseph Cerniglia, Jr David Littman Marshall Kiev Nicholas Robinson Alan Ellman       
 MOKOTOFF-Milton M., Hon. Age 84, of Sands Point, New York, died on Sunday, August 19. After sixty years of marriage, he remains adored by his wife, Shirley. Beloved father of Tama Bernstein, David Mokotoff, and Elaine Viders. Treasured grandfather of Marne Roskin (Tommy), Alexis and Leah Be
 MURRAY-Matthew T. On August 20, 2001 in Port Chester, New York, after an illness. Eldest son of the late Matthew and Agatha Murray, devoted father of Matthew, Mercedes, and Catherine. Proud grandfather of Matthew, T. Murray IV, and Hypatia Luz, beloved brother of John, Morgan, Arthur, and P
 O'BRIEN-William Jourdan of Quiogue, NY, 65, passed away on August 18, 2001 at Central Suffolk Hospital. Son of the late Henry L. and Natalie Jourdan O'Brien, he is survived by his wife, Verity Voight O'Brien, his sister Natalie O'Brien Conklin and stepchildren Elizabeth Webb Rowe, David, Pe
 STATTER-Humphrey. The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation expresses its sorrow respecting the death of its Former President, Humphrey Statter. He gave selflessly of his time and energy and will be deeply missed by his many friends. The Foundation extends its heartfelt condolences to his 
 WALDINGER - Herbert, Dr. Though he has been gone for 16 years, our memories of his beauty and philanthropy are still alive in our minds and hearts, guiding us through our daily endeavors. He is remembered and cherished on this anniversary of his passing by his family and friends.       
 Philip Bayard Crosby, a onetime assembly line worker who became an entrepreneur spreading the gospel of quality control in manufacturing, died on Sunday at a hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 75 and lived in Winter Park, Fla., with a summer home in the North Carolina mountains.    
 George O'Toole, a novelist and historian who specialized in the history of American espionage, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 64 and lived in Mount Vernon. The cause was diabetes, said his wife, Mary Ann Werntz. Mr. O'Toole, who worked for the Centr
 Kenneth Reese Cole Jr., a White House aide in the Nixon era and an occasional commentator on Watergate, died on Thursday at his home in Willsboro, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Cole served in the White House throughout Richard M. Nixon's 
 Neil Cooper, the founder of the ROIR record label, which released music by underground rock and reggae bands, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his son Lucas. Mr. Cooper was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Columbia Busine
 ABBOTT-Keene, 95. Of Jamesville, New York, died August 18 at his home. Living the motto, ''You best serve yourself when you first serve others,'' Mr. Abbott spent a lifetime touching the lives of others through community service. A longtime resident of the Utica, NY area, he was a member of
 BEEKLEY-Mason W. III. Of New Hartford, Connecticut, a man of vision, dignity and compassion, died peacefully Monday, August 20, 2001 in Beverly Hills, CA. He was born on February 9, 1927 in Hartford, Connecticut, the son of Aline F. Beekley and F. Cheyney Beekley. Mason graduated from Kings
 BRANDRUP-Clair L. Passed away peacefully at his home in San Francisco, CA on August 13, 2001 at the age of 86 after a long and fulfilling life. Loving father of Douglas W. Brandrup of Stamford, CT and Judith Claire Kerwin of San Francisco, CA. Devoted and loving grandfather to Kendra Claire
 CLOWARD-Dr. Richard A. The Faculty, Advisory Council, Alumni Association, staff, and students of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with sadness the death of Professor Richard A. Cloward on August 20, in New York City. A 1950 M.S. graduate of the School and member of its fac
 FOOSE-Thomas Trentman. Died in Cobble Hill Nursing Home August 16. A longtime resident of Brooklyn Heights, and before that Manhattan. Born and raised in Dayton, OH, he would have been 84 on September 10. He was an only child. His sole surviving relative is Martha June Baker, who resides in
 HALKEDIS-Theodore. August 21, 2001. Devoted son of the late John and the late Simela Halkedis. Beloved husband of Aristea. Devoted brother of Elpis Kyriazis and Haralambos Halkedis. Loving uncle of Arthur and John Kyriazis, Semele, John and Anne Halkedis. Born in Philadelphia and graduated 
 KAMINSKY-Alexander. Son of Benjamin and Ida Kaminsky died August 19, 2001, at his home in Neponsit, NY. He was interred at Old Montefiore Cemetery on August 21. Born in Brooklyn on May 19, 1915, he was a graduate of Boys High School in 1930, Columbia College in 1934, and received an MBA fro
 MARFUGGI-William E., former New Jersey State Treasurer, West Point Graduate and a resident of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, passed away on August 21, 2001. Bill was appointed State Treasurer in '73 by then Governor William Cahill. Bill served as a Chairman of the Board, Victory Optical, Newark, NJ
 NAGIN-George. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of George Nagin, and offer our deepest sympathy to our President, Harvey and the entire Nagin Family. Alpine Country Club Board of Governors NAGIN-George. The members an
 PERRY-Arnold. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Arnold Perry, beloved father of Richard Perry. We extend our deepest condolences to Richard & his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 ROSENFELD - Rabbi Leonard. The entire Yeshiva University family is saddened by the sudden passing away of one of the most senior and outstanding alumni of Yeshiva College ('37) and the affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary ('40). A distinguished educator and former head of th
 STEVENS-Howard R. Devoted husband of the late Inez. Beloved father of Joanne, Sandy and Ellen. Loving grandfather of Alex and Sean. Longtime companion of Lila Greene. His love and friendship will be missed. Services Friday, 12 Noon, ''Gutterman's,'' 175 North Long Beach Rd., Rockville Centr
 SUCHOFF-Martin L., Esq. Of Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Anita. Devoted father of Lawrence (Miriam), Susan, Karen, Brian (Shelly). Dear brother of Marlene Stirmer. Loving grandfather of Rachel, Eve, Noah, Joshua, Zachary, Jordan, Samantha and Carly. Services ''Wien & Wien'' Hackensa
 USDAN-Irwin. AMIT is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of the beloved brother of our most generous benefactors, Hadassah (and Marvin) Bienenfeld, and Arlene (and Moshe) Kupietzky. Irwin Usdan was deeply devoted to Torah tradition, the State of Israel and Klal Yisrael. He will be sorel
 Richard A. Cloward, a sociologist and social activist who was an architect of the welfare rights movement and the co-author of a groundbreaking critique of the welfare state as a tool for containing social unrest, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause of deat
 William G. Clark, a former chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court and an outspoken critic of the Vietnam War in 1968, both at the Democratic National Convention and as a candidate for the Senate, died on Friday in Skokie, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. The cause was compl
 Amram J. Cohen, a heart surgeon who built a program that brought hundreds of children from developing countries to Israel for lifesaving cardiac operations, died on Aug. 16 while climbing Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack and complications from a
 CLOWARD-Richard. Passionate advocate for economic justice and empowerment of low income communities. Founder of the Welfare Law Center in 1965 and friend and supporter ever since. Your memory inspires us. Henry Freedman, Executive Director CLOWARD-Richard A. We join together to comm
 DICK-Frederick. Our deepest sympathies to Marion and the entire Pokoik and Dick families on the passing of Fred. He was a man of great compassion and understanding. He will be sorely missed. Partners and Employees of Steinberg & Pokoik       
 HALKEDIS-Theodore. August 21, 2001. Devoted son of the late John and the late Simela Halkedis. Beloved husband of Aristea. Devoted brother of Elpis Kyriazis and Haralambos Halkedis. Loving uncle of Arthur and John Kyriazis, Semele, John and Anne Halkedis. Born in Philadelphia and graduated 
 HARRISON-John T. Jr., died of a stroke August 22nd at his home in Essex, Connecticut. He was 89 years old. Born in Corona, Long Island, he was a resident of New York City for most of his life. He attended the Allen Stevenson School, graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., in 1931
 LEVI-Irving. Founder and President of OSI Oil Services. Beloved husband of Lillian. Loving father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. A real mensch. He will be missed by all who knew and loved him. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI. 1:30 PM on Friday.        
 MINTZ-Marvin. Of Manlius, New York, died August 23, 2001. Loving husband of Susan and devoted father to Jonathan and Elizabeth. Father-in-law to Beth. Son of Selma Silverman. Marvin, a retired psychologist, was owner of Bouckville Books. He will always be remembered for his compassion, kind
 MOKOTOFF-Milton M., Hon. Age 84, of Sands Point, New York, died on Sunday, August 19. After sixty years of marriage, he remains adored by his wife, Shirley. Beloved father of Tama Bernstein, David Mokotoff, and Elaine Viders. Treasured grandfather of Marne Roskin (Thomas), Alexis and Leah B
 PIRONE-Dr. Dominick Joseph. Of Mt. Vernon, NY, on August 23. For 25 years he was a beloved faculty member in the Biology Department of Manhattan College and the College of Mt. St. Vincent in Riverdale. Dominick is survived by his wife Joan, two sons Joseph and Robert, a sister Mary Grace Ba
 POWERS-Stephen J. Age 52, of Bronxville, New York and Edgartown, Massachusetts died Friday, August 17, 2001. Mr. Powers was the son of Charlene Powers and the late Shannon Powers of Chagrin Falls, Ohio. He is survived by his daughter Anne C. Powers and son Stephen J. Powers Jr., of Westport
 Peter Maas, who turned real-life good guys and bad guys into the stars of a long string of nonfiction best sellers, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. A hospital spokeswoman declined to give the cause of death. Time and again Mr. Maas returned to
 Bob Williams, who had been a New York Post television columnist for 21 years, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 86 and lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his ex-wife, Beatrice Williams-Rude. Robert Colburn Williams 
 Boyd L. Jefferies, founder of the brokerage firm Jefferies & Company Inc. in Los Angeles and a crucial figure in some of the corporate takeover battles of the 1980's and in insider trading scandals toward the end of the decade, died Thursday near his home in Aspen, Colo., the firm reported 
 Edward Rice, an adventuresome American writer who wrote a best-selling 1990 biography of the 19th-century British explorer Richard Francis Burton, died on Saturday in a hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 82 and lived in Sagaponack, N.Y. Mr. Rice, who was also a photographer, was a
 Dr. Harry Martin Meyer Jr., a pediatric virologist who played a vital role in defeating German measles and other infectious diseases, died on Sunday in Kenmore, Wash., at the home of his stepson. He was 72 and lived in Friday Harbor, Wash., on San Juan Island. The cause was T-cell l
 BRUECKNER-Richard George, of Madison, New Jersey, Thursday, August 23, 2001. Husband of the late Nicanora Montez Brueckner. Loving father of Carlota of Asbury Park, N.J.; Quintana (Hayett) of Lenexa, KS: Stephen of Clarkston, MI; Thomas of Burlington, VT; Ynes of Los Angeles, CA; James of M
 CLOWARD-Richard. The New York Civil Liberties Union is deeply saddened by the death of Richard Cloward, a former NYCLU Board member. He was a vigorous and dedicated champion of the rights of the poor. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Steven Hyman, President Deborah Karpatkin, Vice P
 DEAN-Howard B. Died August 23rd in Southampton Hospital of respiratory failure. He was 80 years of age and a resident of East Hampton, New York. Mr. Dean attended the Browning School in New York City, Pomfret School and Yale University. During World War II, he served with Pan Am Africa and 
 DeSANTIS-John P. Of Holbrook, NY, on August 24, 2001, in his 81st year. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of John, Gloria Ricotta, Barbara Silverman and Donna Simon. Dear brother of Peter, Louise Pittari and Teresa D'Amato. Cherished grandfather of seven. Reposing Maloney's Holbrook 
 DOHERTY-Brian C. Of Jersey City & Allenhurst, NJ, Thursday, August 23, 2001. Beloved husband of his wife of 28 years, Rosemary (nee McFadden) Doherty. Loving son of Bernice (nee Killoran) and Eugene Doherty. Dear brother of Marybeth Lopez, Eugene Doherty and Bridgid Walsh, and brother-inlaw
 HARRISON-John T. Jr., died of a stroke August 22nd at his home in Essex, Connecticut. He was 89 years old. Born in Corona, Long Island, he was a resident of New York City for most of his life. He attended the Allen Stevenson School, graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., in 1931
 LaCHANCE-Amos (Al). Of Massapequa, Long Island. Born April 24, 1937. Died Wednesday, August 22. Son of Lewis LaChance, Sr. and Ruby Miner LaChance of Greenfield and Orange, MA. He graduated Greenfield Vocational H.S. 1955; worked at Orange Newspaper for six years. Worked for over 35 years a
 METZGER-Bernard. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Friday, August 24, 2001. He will be missed. Services will be held Sunday, August 26 at 11:00 AM at Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapels, 7240 North Federal
 REESE-Robert. The officers and employees of Tanenbaum-Harber Company mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Bob Reese. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Fran and children Lori and Keith. Walter L. Harris, President       
 TANE-Irwin R. Died peacefully, at home, surrounded by his loving family on August 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Lance, Michael and Sharon. Devoted grandfather to Jonah, Zachary, Annie, Colin and Delaney. Cherished brother of Barry. All who knew and loved him will miss
 Thomas A. Coughlin, a former state trooper who modernized New York State's mental retardation and prison systems, died on Thursday at a hospital in Syracuse. He was 63. The cause was complications after heart bypass surgery, the State Department of Correctional Services announced.  
 BARTON-Harry Lang. Artist and illustrator, on August 12, 2001, at age 93. He is survived by daughters Linda Drohan and Joan Barton, both of Connecticut, and his sister Virginia E. Marshall and brother Stuart Barton, both of Seattle. Remembrance program Wednesday, August 29, at 2 PM, Messiah
 BRUECKNER-Richard George, of Madison, New Jersey, Thursday, August 23, 2001. Husband of the late Nicanora Montez Brueckner. Loving father of Carlota of Asbury Park, N.J.; Quintana (Hayett) of Lenexa, KS: Stephen of Clarkston, MI; Thomas of Burlington, VT; Ynes of Los Angeles, CA; James of M
 BRYCE-Erskine G. The New York City Marshals Association mourns the loss of City Marshal Erskine Bryce who died in the line of duty. He was an outstanding public servant, devoted father and friend to many. Our condolences go to his son Eaton and his daughter Carol. May he rest in peace. Alfr
 DEAN-E. Douglas, Ph.D. August 15, 2001. The Board and members of the American Society for Psychical Research (ASPR) mourn the passing of E. Douglas Dean, Ph.D. Dr. Dean was a much beloved man of science who conducted visionary work investigating psychic healing. He was also known for his ea
 DEAN-Howard B. Died August 23rd in Southampton Hospital of respiratory failure. He was 80 years of age and a resident of East Hampton, New York. Mr. Dean attended the Browning School in New York City, Pomfret School and Yale University. During World War II, he served with Pan Am Africa and 
 DICK-Frederick. Our deepest sympathies to Marion and the entire Pokoik and Dick families on the passing of Fred. He was a man of great compassion and understanding. He will be sorely missed. Partners and Employees of Steinberg & Pokoik       
 ISAACSON-Judge Oscar, 87. Died on August 11, Lauderhill, Florida. Previously of Teaneck, NJ. Chief Administrative Law Judge in TN, NC, FL. His brilliance, caring and humor remembered especially by beloved wife of 61 years Betty, daughter Anita (Carl) Jacobs of Teaneck, grandchildren Eliezer
 LOWENSTEIN-Frank Wolfgang, MD, DPH, 92. Died Friday, July 6, 2001, in Poughkeepsie, New York, formerly of Berlin, Germany. Son of Ernst Lowenstein, a German Federal Judge in Berlin, and Else Greifenhagen, daughter of Department Store founder Hyman Greifenhagen, Frank was an accomplished pia
 MERRITT-A. Jay. On August 19th. Survived by his wife Bedonna, daughters Susan and Jeralyn, and grandson Nicolas Merritt Geman.       
 MOKOTOFF-Milton M., Hon. Age 84, of Sands Point, New York, died on Sunday, August 19. After sixty years of marriage, he remains adored by his wife, Shirley. Beloved father of Tama Bernstein, David Mokotoff, and Elaine Viders. Treasured grandfather of Marne Roskin (Thomas), Alexis and Leah B
 MOORE-Philip Walsh. Died July 18, 2001, of cancer at Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. Graduated Princeton University Magna Cum Laude in 1942. Enlisted in U.S. Navy 1941 and served as commanding officer of a sub-chaser in both the Atlantic and Pacific. Phi Beta Kappa Junior year, Lyman Biddle Scholar
 REESE-Robert. The officers and employees of Tanenbaum-Harber Company mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Bob Reese. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Fran and children Lori and Keith. Walter L. Harris, President       
 ROSEN-David. 87, of Lauderhill, FL, formerly of New York City. Passed away on August 24, 2001. He is survived by beloved daughter Gale Goldfarb, daughter-in-law Sally Rosen and his closest companion Arlene Shear, his three grand-children David Rosen, Nancy Goldfarb Watson and Jay Goldfarb, 
 TANE-Irwin R. Died peacefully, at home, surrounded by his loving family on August 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Lance, Michael and Sharon. Devoted grandfather to Jonah, Zachary, Annie, Colin and Delaney. Cherished brother of Barry. All who knew and loved him will miss
 Steven Izenour, an architect and an author with Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown of ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' the influential radical manifesto of 1972 that celebrates the gaudy glories of the American commercial strip, died on Tuesday while bicycling on vacation in Vermont. He was 
 Varro E. Tyler, one of the nation's foremost experts on herbal medicine and nutritional supplements and a professor emeritus of pharmacognosy at Purdue University, died on Wednesday at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 74. The cause was a blood clot in his lung, sai
 Hank Sauer, a slugging outfielder who was the National League's most valuable player in 1952 although his Chicago Cubs team managed only a fifth-place finish, died Friday in Burlingame, Calif. He was 84. Sauer, who lived in Millbrae, Calif., had a heart attack while playing golf wit
 John Ralph Apel, a physicist and oceanographer who three decades ago began surveying the seas from orbiting perches in the sky, died Aug. 16 in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and a resident of Rockville, Md. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Wor
 ALFIERI-Frank. Of Port Jefferson Station, LI, on August 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Janice Alfieri. Loving father of Gregory Alfieri and Nicole Alfieri Hanlon. Cherished grandfather of Katelyn Alfieri and Gabrielle Hanlon. Dear son of Elizabeth Alfieri. Brother of Steven, Gloria and Lizett
 BARTON-Harry Lang. Artist and illustrator, on August 12, 2001, at age 93. He is survived by daughters Linda Drohan and Joan Barton, both of Connecticut, and his sister Virginia E. Marshall and brother Stuart Barton, both of Seattle. Remembrance program Wednesday, August 29, at 2 PM, Messiah
 COOPER-Donald. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 DEAN-Howard B. Died August 23rd in Southampton Hospital of respiratory failure. He was 80 years of age and a resident of East Hampton, New York. Mr. Dean attended the Browning School in New York City, Pomfret School and Yale University. During World War II, he served with Pan Am Africa and 
 ENGH-Keith. Writer, adventurous spirit and my husband whom I loved so deeply for half my life. He was my world. Gerty Engh       
 KOLODNY-Martin. Of Riverdale, died peacefully at home on August 25, 2001, after a long battle with lung cancer. He will be forever missed and remembered by his wife Sandra, sons Richard and David, and grandchildren Steven, Lauren and Jonathan. Dear brother of Ruth Levy-Stroh. He was a gradu
 SHULSKY-Rubin. Passed on August 25, 2001. Beloved father of Rena, husband of the late Marie Shulsky and son of the late Sarah and Louis Shulsky. He was a man of unique wisdom, intelligence, wit, compassion, grace and culture. An original mind and an original life, wonderfully creative, he w
 YOUNG-Charles Titus III. Of Lyme, CT, and Vero Beach, FL, died on August 24, 2001, at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, CT. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Young Jr., of Branford, CT. He was born September 8, 1917, in Brooklyn, NY. He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Nancy; his 
 BANDLER-Richard V., 85. On August 25, 2001, in Boston, MA. Formerly of Riverdale, NY. Retired Associate Regional Administrator, U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, New York, and an associate of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver, and Jacobson. Active lay leader in Jewish education. Devoted hu
 BINDER-Rubin, 94. On August 26, after a long and productive life. He is survived by son Carl, daughterin-law Muriel, sister Gertrude Goldman, brother Oscar, granddaughters Debra and Jacqueline, their husbands and four great grandchildren. In loving memory.       
 DEAN-Howard B. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the death of the father of our Distinguished Alumnus, Howard Dean, M.D., class of '78 and Governor of the State of Vermont. We extend our deepest condolences to Dr. Dean, his wife, Judith E. Steinbe
 ESSMAN-Leonard J., MD. On August 25, 2001. The Board of Governors and the medical staff of Rye Hospital Center, Rye, New York mourn the untimely loss of their devoted member, and extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Zora, their children and grandchildren. Jack C. Schoenholtz, MD President a
 FISHER-Irving. Died August 25, 2001. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Father of Bette, David & Richard. Father-in-law of Elise and Laura. Grandfather of Andrew, Risa, Matt, Alex, Jordan, Jesse & Beau, and great grandfather of Noah and Joshua, all of whom learned from him the important things of l
 GOULD-Mildred, on August 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Harold. Devoted mother of Thomas and his wife, Barbara. Dear sister of Walter Feldesman. Cherished grandmother of Mitchell and Julie, and Juli and Gregory; great-grandmother of Jake. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 7
 HENRY-Carl. Americans for a Safe Israel/AFSI mourns the passing of our esteemed boardmember. He served as a colonel in the 80th Infantry Division of Patton's Third Army, graduated from Harvard, and created a successful business. His later years were marked by his devotion to Torah study and
 KOLODNY-Martin. McGladrey & Pullen, LLP, formerly Edward Isaacs & Company LLP, is saddened by the loss of our dear friend and partner of 41 years. Martin will be remembered for his dedication to the Firm, the Clients and the Accounting Profession. We express our deepest sympathy to his fami
 LEWITTES-Aaron. Died August 27, 2001 at the age of 88 years. Cherished husband of the late Estelle. Devoted and proud father and father-in-law of Deborah and Dr. Morris Stampfer, Naomi and Dr. Jack Levenbrown, and Ann Lewittes. Adored grandfather of Dr. David and Amy Stampfer, Sharon Stampf
 McGUIRE-Augustus S. CSP. On August 27, 2001 at age 69. Born in Nashau, NH, he was ordained a Paulist priest in 1959. His assignments included nineteen years in Toronto, Canada, seven years in Houston, TX, eleven years at Good Shepherd Parish in New York, NY, and the past six years in Clemso
 MOLONEY-F. Daniel. Of Lake Ronkonkoma, NY, on August 26, 2001, in his 63rd year. Founder of the Moloney Family Funeral Homes, Brookhaven Town Tax Receiver, member of the Board of Directors of St. Charles Hospital, longtime member and Commissioner of the Lake Ronkonkoma Fire District. Adored
 MURRAY-Rev. John, C.M. The St. John's University Board of Trustees notes, with profound sorrow, the passing of its colleague, Trustee Emeritus Rev. John P. Murray, C.M. He dedicated himself to God in a priesthood that spanned more than fifty years. He was a member of the Board of Trustees o
 STERNBERG - Theodore. The partners and staff of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP express their deepest sympathy to their partner, Joseph Sternberg, on the passing of his father, Theodore; we extend our condolences to his sister and to the grandchildren. Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucha
 THOMAS-H. Emerson, 98. Former mayor of Westfield, NJ died August 25, 2001. Known to those in the propane gas industry as ''Mr. LP-Gas'', he was a founder and former president of the National LP-Gas Association. Predeceased by his wife, Helen, he is survived by two sons, H. Emerson Thomas, J
 The blind Cuban pianist Frank Emilio Flynn, whose long career connected many tributaries of Cuban jazz, died Thursday at his home in Havana. He was 80, said René Lopez, his friend and record producer. Mr. Flynn's musical life encompassed many forms, including classical music; the f
 Gerard Zinser, the last surviving crewman from the sinking of John F. Kennedy's PT 109 in the South Pacific in World War II, died on Aug. 21 at a hospital in Orange Park, Fla. He was 82. Mr. Zinser, who lived in Orange Park, had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported.   
 DEAN-Howard B. The Browning School notes with sadness the death of Howard B. Dean, class of 1938, alumnus, parent and trustee. We will miss his generous nature and enthusiastic spirit. Our thoughts are with his family. James S. Chanos, President, Board of Trustees Stephen M. Clement, III He
 FULLER-Frederic J., Jr. Died on August 26 at home at the age of 83. Beloved son of the late Frederic J. and Amanda Heidt Fuller. Devoted brother of Elizabeth H. Fuller. In accordance with his wishes a private Mass of Christian Burial was held at the Church of St. Thomas More on August 28. I
 GELMAN-Bernard S. On August 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving father of Linda, Karen and Barbara Gelman. Cherished grandfather of Zara, Philip, Eli, Maya, Rachel, Matthew & Mollie. Dear brother of Herman and his wife Dale and the late Samuel. Services Thursday 12:45 PM at ''The Riv
 GOLDMAN-Morton R., 79, of New York City passed away August 27, 2001, after a long illness. He was a W.W. II Veteran serving in North Africa, Italy and Austria as a member of the Psychological Warfare Branch of the U.S. Army. He was CEO of Crestwood Fabrics Inc. He was also associated with X
 KUNZ-Donald, Passed August 24, 2001. The Administration and Faculty of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourn the death of Professor Donald Kunz. Serving the Cooper Union with distinction for 33 years, he enriched the lives of generations of talented students and cont
 KUSHNER-Joseph M., 93. Died at his home in Bay Harbor Islands, Florida on August 26th, 2001. Formerly a leading real estate and insurance broker in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, New York. He is survived by his wife of 71 years Lillian; children James and Mary Kushner of Salt Lake City,
 LANE-Robert D. Peacefully, after a struggle with cancer, August 28, at 76 years. Survived by his wife Ro, his sons Bob, Rich and Skip, daughters-in-law Pat and Margaret, grandchildren Becca, Mason, Adam and Eric. Former president of Hygrade Printing Corp., he served as president of IBFI/PIA
 LAURENCE - Michael. Former WMCA and NBC executive died August 27th from a long suffering illness. He was 72.       
 LEVY-Robert M. Passed away on Monday, August 27, 2001 after a valiant fight against lung cancer. He will be deeply mourned by his wife Shirley, his children Andrew and Rani, their spouses Annie and Jack, grandchildren Brianna and Zoe and his brother Arthur and his companion Fred. There will
 SCHWARTZ - Stanley. Lifelong lover of people and plants whose passion for growing was contagious. His wit, humor and intelligence will be sorely missed. The ''PITS''       
 SHULSKY-Rubin. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Continuum Center for Health and Healing (CCHH) in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Rubin Shulsky, beloved father of our benefactor and former Beth Israel Trustee Rena M. Shulsky. 
 SORKIN-Nathan. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Manhasset, NY, on August 27, 2001. Lieutenant, U.S. Navy, WW II. Past President, B'nai B'rith-Greater Flushing Chapter. Supporter of UJA-Federation, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, U.S Holocaust Memorial Museum, National Yiddish Book Center.
 Herbert Haag, a Swiss liberal Roman Catholic theologian who sought reform and liberalization of the church and had a noted dispute with church authorities over matters including whether ordained priests were needed to celebrate the Eucharist, died on Thursday in Lucerne, Switzerland. He was
 Karl Ulrich Schnabel, son of the pianist Artur Schnabel and an influential piano teacher and recitalist in his own right, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 92 and had homes in Danbury and in Como, Italy. As a performer, Mr. Schnabel was best known for his devotio
 Michael L. Dertouzos, a computer scientist with a knack for explaining the ways that high technology affects people's lives, died on Monday night in Boston. He was 64. The cause of death is unknown, pending an autopsy. Mr. Dertouzos, a faculty member of the Massachusetts Ins
 AVERICK-Harold Bernard. The family of H.B. Averick regret to announce his passing on August 29, 2001. He lived and worked in NYC all his 94 years. A business founder of Design Built Exhibits (Long Island City); a past-president of EDPA; an active member of The 100 Club as well as The Societ
 CHASE-Anthony C. Died August 20, 2001 in San Francisco, of acute leukemia. Born in New York City, August 29, 1936. Graduated from Yale in 1958, he worked in advertising and insurance in New York, then transferred to San Francisco in 1960. He loved life, filling it with people and adventure-
 CLARK-Frances C. (nee Masterson), on August 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John F. Clark. Loving mother of John and his wife Carolyn, and Brian and his late wife Melissa. Cherished grandmother of Christopher, Jessica, Brittany, Kaitlin, Catherine, Stephanie, Alexandra, Bridget and the l
 EISENBERG-Julius. On August 18, age 90, in New Haven. Husband of Rose, father of Alice Mattison and Savita Eisenberg, grandfather of Jacob, Ben and Andrew Mattison, brother of Florence Reback and the late David Eisenberg, Ina Levy and Evelyn Millard. A retired court reporter in New York's C
 FULLER-Frederic J., Jr. The Board of Directors and staff of Interfaith Neighbors offer our sympathy to Elizabeth Fuller for the loss of Frederic J. Fuller, Jr., her beloved brother and dear friend. We, too, will deeply miss Fred. His generous soul was overshadowed only by his modesty. Throu
 LANE-Robert D. Peacefully, after a struggle with cancer, August 28, at 76 years. Survived by his wife Ro, his sons Bob, Rich and Skip, daughters-in-law Pat and Margaret, grandchildren Becca, Mason, Adam and Eric. Former president of Hygrade Printing Corp., he served as president of IBFI/PIA
 LOMBARDI-Charles. Age 85 of West Palm Beach, FL passed away August 28, 2001. He is survived by his wife, Mary; son, Bruce; grandchildren, Eric & Bridgette; brother, Waldo (Mary); nieces, Allison & Mary; sister, Palma Cornella and niece Lisa. Services were held in Royal Palm Beach, FL. Contr
 SULLIVAN-John Joseph. Of Point Pleasant, NJ (formerly of SI) on August 29, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Sheila. Loving father of Ellen, John, Kenneth, Jeanne Feurerstein, Sheila Gurrieri and Patrick. Dear brother of Eileen Mahler. Also survived by eleven grandchildren. Reposing at the 
 SUTIN-Gerald. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and extends its heartfelt condolences to his entire bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard Wolf, President       
 UZIELLI-Philip A. It is with deep regret that we announce the death of Philip A. Uzielli on August 25, 2001 in Florence, Italy. His family and friends mourn their loss on his sudden passing and will miss his warmth, humor and humanity. ''Always keep them laughing when you say goodbye.'' Isa
 IZENOUR-Steven A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, September 6, 2001, at 2 p.m., at Irvine Auditorium, 34th and Spruce Streets, Philadelphia. In lieu of flowers or gifts, contributions may be made in his name to The Wagner Free Institute of Science, 1700 W. Montgomery Ave., Phila.,
 Philip H. Trezise, a trade negotiator who was assistant secretary of state during the Nixon administration, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. In 1965, as the deputy assistant secretary of state for economic affairs, Mr. Trezise was the chief negotiator of 
 David R. Hunter, a retired Episcopal priest and a pioneer in interfaith relations, died Sunday at a retirement community in Moorestown, N.J. He was 90 and a former resident of Brooklyn. Dr. Hunter, who held a Harvard doctorate in education, was deputy general secretary of the Nation
 Gabor Peterdi, a painter and printmaker who worked in New York during the heyday of Abstract Expressionism but who chose to retain ties to nature in his work, died on Aug. 13 at a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 85. Born in Budapest, the child of poets, Mr. Peterdi won a Prix de R
 Govan Mbeki, a South African liberation leader who sent his eldest son, Thabo, into the antiapartheid struggle and lived to see him become president of South Africa, died early this morning in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth. He was 91. A teacher by training, Mr. Mbeki was a sold
 Juan Muñoz, a Spanish sculptor  known for expansive and enigmatic architectural installations sparsely populated by anonymous figures, died on Tuesday on the island of  Ibiza, Spain. He was 48 and lived in Madrid. He died from a heart attack, said Lynne Cooke, a curator at the Dia 
 AVERICK-Harold Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harold Bernard Averick, who expressed his commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes through the Averick Philanthropic Foundation. His beloved niece, Pamela, helped Harol
 BAITZ-Edward H. Born November 30, 1922 in Baltimore, MD. Raised there and in Washington, DC; passed away August 30, 2001 in Los Angeles after a lengthy illness. Beloved husband of Sybil; loving father of Jeff, Rick (Penny) and Robbie (Joe); cherished grandfather of Joshy; dear brother of Es
 CLARK-Edward T. August 27, 2001. Loving and devoted brother, a kind and gentle man. Catherine Garelik Sister Joan Clark, SHCJ Gloria Gannon CLARK-Edward T. Uncle, friend and inspiration. His life made a difference in this world. Neal Clark Garelik       
 FULLER-Frederic J., Jr. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Frederic J. Fuller, Jr., our beloved Director for 20 years and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health services. His interest in patie
 LANE-Robert D. Peacefully, after a struggle with cancer, August 28, at 76 years. Survived by his wife Ro, his sons Bob, Rich and Skip, daughters-in-law Pat and Margaret, grandchildren Becca, Mason, Adam and Eric. Former president of Hygrade Printing Corp., he served as president of IBFI/PIA
 MENDALES-Arnold M. On August 29. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Richard, Elissa Dente, Samuel and Lauren Eisenman. Dear brother of Mildred Balzer. Loving grandfather of Jenny, Joseph, Benjamin, Jacob, Ezra, Rachel and Edward. He will be missed. Services today, 1PM at ''Sinai Ch
 SCHNABEL-Karl Ulrich. The Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the loss of distinguished faculty member Karl Ulrich Schnabel. A renowned member of our piano faculty from 1985-2000, his wisdom, compassion, and sense of grand tradition enriched the lives of his many students. As a colleag
 SIEGEL-Israel, M.D. Departed from this world on August 24th after a heroic battle with cancer. He practiced the science and art of medicine with dedication and humanity in the community of Bayonne, NJ and the Bayonne Hospital. He was recently awarded tributes and high honors for his 50 year
 TABACHNIK-Rabbi Joseph. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1946, his first pulpit was in New Haven. In 1963, he was called to the pulpit of West Suburban Temple Har-Zion in Chicago, which he served until he became its Rabbi Emeritus in 1989. He s
 UZIELLI-Philip A. Elizabeth Uzielli, Caroline Uzielli Stenzler and Blandy Uzielli Coty sadly announce the death of their father Philip A. Uzielli in Florence, Italy, on August 25, 2001. He will be missed by all of his children. UZIELLI-Philip A. Dear friend and colleague, valued com
