 Dr. Carey Hoyt Bostian, a geneticist who taught at North Carolina State University for 37 years and served as its chancellor for another 6, died on April 22 at his retirement home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 93. He joined the faculty in 1930 as an assistant professor of zoology and 
 Damaso Seda, the first Hispanic transit worker to lead the men and women who keep New York City's buses and subways up and running, died Tuesday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. According to the Transport Workers Union of Ameri
 Newell Brown, a labor official in the Eisenhower administration and an aide to Gov. Sherman Adams of New Hampshire before that, died on April 14 at his home in Keene, N.H. He was 82 and had moved there from Dublin, N.H., weeks ago. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family 
 Phillip W. Katz, the inventor of file-compression software used in computers around the world, died on April 14 in a hotel room in Milwaukee. He was 37. The cause was complications from alcoholism, according to a report from the Milwaukee medical examiner's office. Mr. Katz'
 William Francis Gallagher, a retired president of the American Foundation for the Blind, died on April 19 at his home in Webster, Mass., south of Worcester. He was 77 and had long been ill, said the foundation, based in Manhattan, where Mr. Gallagher formerly lived on the Upper East Side.  
 David Mahoney, a business leader who left behind the world of Good Humor, Canada Dry and Avis and threw himself behind a decidedly less conventional marketing campaign, promoting research into the brain, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was heart d
 Pham Van Dong, who led the Vietnamese Communists' delegation to the Geneva peace talks in 1954 that ended the French war in Indochina and then served as Hanoi's prime minister for three decades, died a day before the 25th anniversary of the fall of Saigon, The Associated Press reported from
 Poul Hartling, a former prime minister of Denmark who headed the office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees when the agency won the 1981 Nobel Peace Prize, died on Sunday. He was 85. Mr. Hartling was a shrewd, paternal and politically gifted administrator, not bless
 Jim Rogers, a horse and cattle rancher who was the last surviving child of the cowboy humorist Will Rogers, died on Friday at his home in Bakersfield, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Rogers was also a consultant to three memorials to his father: the Will Rogers Memorial Museum in Claremore, O
 Jonah Jones, a jazz trumpeter who played with some of the great swing bands and sold a million copies of his versions of ''On the Street Where You Live'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Jones, who was born in Louisville, Ky.,
 The Rev. Dr. Bryant Mays Kirkland, minister emeritus of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died on Easter Sunday at a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 and lived on a farm in Churchville, Va. The cause was heart failure, the church said. Dr. Kirkland led
 Cardinal John O'Connor, the archbishop of the New York archdiocese's 2.37 million Catholics and the Vatican's most forceful spokesman in the United States, died last night at his residence around the corner from St. Patrick's Cathedral. He was 80 years old. Cardinal O'Connor died of
 Harry Newman, who led the 1933 New York Giants to the National Football League's first championship game as an All-Pro quarterback one season after being honored as college football's top player, died Tuesday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 90. Newman, who concluded his rookie seas
 Raul Rettig, who headed an official inquiry into political atrocities in Chile during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on Sunday at his house in Santiago, Chile. He was 90. Mr. Rettig, a lawyer, had been a senator, an ambassador and something of a swashbuckler before 
 Bayard Webster, a former editor on the science desk of The New York Times and former Times science writer, died on Sunday at the Heron Point Retirement Community in Chestertown, Md. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Webster worked for Th
 Marvin L. Stone, a former editor in chief of U.S. News & World Report and a former deputy director of the United States Information Agency, died on Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 76. The Associated Press said the cause was cancer. Mr. Stone was the chief edit
 Steve Reeves, the bodybuilder turned movie muscleman whose 1959 film ''Hercules'' ushered in a cycle of sword-and-sandal epics, died Monday at the Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. He was 74 and had become a rancher and fitness guru after retiring from acting three decades ago.   
 William Mehojah, the last pure-blooded member of the Kaw Indian tribe, died of lung failure on April 23 at a hospital in Omaha. He was 82. Mr. Mehojah's Indian name was Little Star, and he belonged to the Night Clan of a Plains tribe known as the Wind People. He watched with witheri
 Dr. Alonzo A. Crim, the first black superintendent of schools in a major city in the South, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta after an automobile accident. He was 71. The accident, involving Dr. Crim's car and two others, occurred a few blocks from a high school named for him.
 Antonio Buero Vallejo, a highly admired Spanish playwright who made his name as a dissident during  Franco's long rule and who in 1986 was awarded the Cervantes Prize, the country's highest literary honor, died on April 28 in a hospital in Madrid. He was 83. Mr. Buero Vallejo, whose
 Bill Musselman, who in the last 35 years held 13 head coaching jobs in college and professional basketball and left an imprint everywhere as a volatile, intense taskmaster, died yesterday at the Mayo Clinic's St. Marys Hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 59. A Mayo Clinic spokesman 
 Gino Bartali, an Italian cycling champion whose victory in the 1948 Tour de France helped unite his politically torn country, died today at his home in Florence, his son Andrea Bartali said. He was 85. Bartali, who also won the Tour de France in 1938 and the Giro D'Italia in 1936, 1
 Peter S. O'Brien, a founder and former president of the Council of Supervisors and Administrators, a New York school union, died on Wednesday at his home in Glen Rock, N.J. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. A native of Brooklyn and a graduate of St. John's Un
 Barry Ulanov, a professor and author or translator of nearly 50 books whose interests included jazz, theater, Christian humanism, visual art, Carl Jung and Catholic literature, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Woodbury, Conn. Mr. Ulanov plac
 Charles R. Boxer, who was Britain's chief spy in Hong Kong in the tumultuous years leading up to World War II; a prominent historian of colonial empires although he never earned a college degree and a lead player in one of the most flamboyantly public love stories of the 1940's, died April 
 Harold Lloyd Patton, a stage manager for Ray Charles who is said to have amassed one of the largest private collections of black literature in the United States, died April 19 at a hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Emily. Mr. Patton 
 Isabel Johnson Hiss, Alger Hiss's widow, died Wednesday at her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was 91. ''To Isabel'' was the dedication that Mr. Hiss, a former State Department official, put on his 1988 book,  ''Recollections of a Life.'' That was long after he had 
 Maurice Uchitel, a well-known Manhattan restaurant and nightclub owner in the 1950's and 1960's, died Friday at the Nathan Adelson Hospice in Las Vegas. He was 88. Among his diversified business interests were El Morocco, the legendary society nightclub, which he owned from 1964 to 
 Richard Bertram, a champion sailor on powerboats and racing yachts and a leading boat builder and broker, died on April 28 at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84. When Bertram raced, he always looked for other boats to sell. In a 1961 profile, The Saturday Evening Post said he sold $
 Douglas Fairbanks Jr., a debonair actor, producer, administrator, bon vivant and Anglo-American ambassador without portfolio, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Fairbanks, 6 feet tall with dashing good looks, struggled to carve a distinctive ac
 Martin Schilling, a German-born retired executive of the Raytheon Company who worked with Wernher von Braun at Peenemunde, Germany, during World War II to develop the world's first large ballistic missile, the V-2, died on April 30 at a clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 88. Dr. Sch
 Ross F. Littell, a furniture and textile designer, died on April 17 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 75. The cause was a brain tumor, his sister, Janice Currey, of Malibu, Calif., said last week. Mr. Littell's characteristic designs were practical, purposeful and fun. ''The N
 Dr. Seymour Sudman, a University of Illinois professor whose books taught pollsters and marketing experts how to phrase questions to get accurate answers, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Champaign, Ill. The cause was complications from a stroke he ha
 Sidney Peterson, an American surrealist filmmaker of the late 1940's and early 50's, died on April 24. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Peterson, who was born in Oakland, Calif., studied at the University of California in Berkeley. He made his early films with help from  his st
 Henry Laskau, who walked out of Hitler's Germany and became America's best race walker for a decade after World War II, died Sunday in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 83. His wife, Hilde, told The Associated Press that Laskau had suffered from Alzheimer's disease. Helmut Laskau, 
 Clifford S. Sutter, the graceful, world-ranked stylist of the 1930's and tennis populist of the 1960's who sought to expand the game from its country club base into the public schools and parks as the president of the Eastern Lawn Tennis Association, died last Thursday in Barnstable, Mass. 
 Lewis Allen, who directed ''The Uninvited,'' one of Hollywood's favorite ghost stories, and who helped Frank Sinatra achieve one of his best dramatic performances as a professional assassin in ''Suddenly,'' died on May 3 in a nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Allen
 Peter Thompson, an actor on stage and in film who later taught drama for more than 20 years, died on April 24 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from heart surgery, said Robert Cosenza, his companion. An Oklahoma 
 Sabri Tahir, a colorful Turkish Cypriot businessman who was renowned for his friendship with the novelist Lawrence Durrell, was shot dead on Monday afternoon in Cyprus. He was 76. News reports said a man shot Mr. Tahir several times in his office at a hotel that he owned in Lefkosa,
 Arthur William Dake, a chess grandmaster and one of the last of a talented crop of American players who won major competitions before World War II, died on April 28 in Reno. He was 90 and lived in Portland, Ore. Mr. Dake had a brilliant although abbreviated career as a chess player.
 Brian Jameson, a former ballet dancer, died on April 28 in Washington. He was 42 and lived in Washington. The cause was lung cancer, said Robin H. Villanueva, a friend. Mr. Jameson, a native of Hartford, studied ballet at the Hartford Conservatory and at the Academy of the W
 Cornelius Adolphus Scott, editor and publisher of The Atlanta Daily World from 1934 until 1997 and a strong voice for the interests of its black readers, died on Sunday at an Atlanta hospital. He was 92. Widely known as C. A. Scott, he became head of The World, a family business, on
 William J. Boyle, a Long Island banker who played a major role in devising the first bank-issued credit card -- a forerunner of Visa and Mastercard -- died on April 30. He was 88 and lived in Garden City, N.Y. Mr. Boyle developed the Franklin Charge Account Plan, which charged inter
 David W. Williams, the first black federal judge west of the Mississippi, a founder of the first black lawyers association in Los Angeles and a crusader in abolishing restrictive housing covenants, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. Among the many a
 Dr. Jay Shorr, a psychoanalyst and leading teacher of other psychoanalysts, died on Saturday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his wife, Cynthia, said. Dr. Shorr's ties to the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society, on East 8
 Dr. Emanuel R. Piore, a retired research physicist who marshaled federal dollars for scientific research, advised presidents and helped I.B.M. develop a new generation of digital computers, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. After a st
 Gervase Cowell, the British secret agent who ran Col. Oleg Penkovsky, one of the most valuable Soviet turncoat spies, died on May 2. He was 73 and lived in Sutton, Surrey, in England. Mr. Cowell was in Moscow under diplomatic cover as an operative for the Secret Intelligence
 Stanley Boxer, a versatile artist known for his thickly brushed abstract paintings, died on Monday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 73. The cause was complications from colon cancer, according to his wife, Joyce Weinstein, a painter. Born in New Yo
 Craig Stevens, who created the title role of the suave but tough private eye in ''Peter Gunn,'' a popular television series in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 81. When not chasing down evildoers and dazzling the women who crossed his path, Mr
 Gus Fleming, the director of concert halls at Lincoln Center since 1988, and before that the company manager of the Lincoln Center Out-of-Doors Festival and a line producer of the JVC Jazz Festival, died last Saturday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 56. Eileen McMahon, a sp
 Homer A. Thompson, an archaeologist who for decades led the sweeping and painstaking excavation of the Agora, the civic center of ancient Athens, died Sunday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 93. Dr. Thompson brought high intelligence, keen intuition and boundless energy to rec
 John P. Robin, who played an influential role in the transformation of Pittsburgh from a smoggy, grimy city into one of gleaming skyscrapers and grassy promenades, died on Sunday at his daughter's house in Pittsburgh. He was 87. Mr. Robin was the first executive director of the Urba
 John Charles de Wilde, a retired economist for the State Department and the World Bank, died on April 27 at his home in Redwood City, Calif. A former resident of Alexandria, Va., he was 89. Mr. de Wilde, who was born in Boskoop, the Netherlands, graduated from Harvard University in 
 Dr. Joseph LePage McCarthy, emeritus professor of chemical engineering and forest resources at the University of Washington and a former dean of its graduate school, died on Monday in Seattle. He was 86 and lived in Seattle. Dr. McCarthy researched wood chemistry and taught at the u
 Robert C. Bassett, a former lawyer, labor negotiator and publisher who represented small-business interests on the councils of two presidential administrations, died on May 2 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 89. Mr. Bassett was born in Sturgeon Bay, Wis., on March 2, 1911. He gr
 Bernhard Heiden, a composer who was for many years chairman of the composition department at Indiana University, died April 30 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. Mr. Heiden was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, in 1910, and began writing music when he was 6. As a child, h
 Charles F. Banfe Jr., a former airline pilot and Stanford University professor who twice flew small planes alone around the world, died on March 17 in Tucson. The cause was pneumonia. He was 82 and lived in Tucson. Mr. Banfe (pronounced BAN-fee) was on leave from Pan American World 
 The Rev. Dr. J. Edward Carothers, a retired minister and former chief executive of national ministries for the United Methodist Church, died on May 1 at his retirement home in Doylestown, Pa., near Philadelphia. He was 92. Dr. Carothers, who took a keen interest in theology's relati
 John W. Christian Jr., a former president of B. Altman & Company, died May 7 at his home in Richmond, Va. He was 74. The cause was a heart aneurysm. Born in Durham, N.C., on March 16, 1926, Mr. Christian graduated from Duke University in 1948. He began his retailing career at Thalhi
 Laurie C. Battle, a former representative from Alabama who was linked to an important piece of cold war legislation, died on May 2 at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 87 and lived in Alexandria, Va. Mr. Battle, a Democrat, served four terms in Congress, representing Birmi
 Dr. Barry Louis Sherman, director of the George Foster Peabody Awards for television programs at the University of Georgia, died on May 2 after collapsing in a lunchtime basketball game on the Athens campus. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, the university said. Dr. S
 Keizo Obuchi, a bland, self-effacing politician who as Japan's prime minister brought some stability to the country's faltering economy and fractious politics, died this afternoon in Tokyo. He was 62 and had been relieved of his duties as prime minister after suffering a stroke in e
 Timothy M. Kiley, who directed some of the leading television variety shows of the 1960's and 70's, died on April 29 at a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, his son Timothy said. Mr. Kiley directed ''The Ed Sullivan Sho
 Dong Kingman, an American-born watercolorist known for humorously illustrational cityscapes, magazine covers and contributions to Hollywood films, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Kingman was born in Oakland, Calif., in 1911. His father was a Chinese immigrant
 Gil Fates, an executive producer of some of the leading television game and panel shows of the 1950's and 60's, died on May 1 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. In more than 35 years with Goodson-Todman Productions, Mr. Fates helped t
 Rodman C. Rockefeller, the eldest son of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was active in efforts that led to the North American Free Trade Agreement and in forging closer ties between the United States and Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 68 and
 C. Eric Lincoln, author of several of the most important scholarly works on the religious experience of black Americans, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 75. He had been suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and heart trouble, his family said. Dr. Lin
 Herbert T. F. Cahoon, a curator who presided over the collection of literary and historical manuscripts at the Morgan Library for 35 years, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82. The library is one of the world's major repositories of such papers, and the han
 Karl Shapiro, whose mordant verse, written when he was a young soldier in New Guinea in World War II, earned him a Pulitzer Prize in 1945, died on Sunday at a hospice in New York City. He was 86. Only the most embroidered adjectives could describe the success Mr. Shapiro achieved in
 Harry J. Volk, a finance executive whose impact was felt as much in the world of philanthropy as in business, died at his Los Angeles home on Friday, according to his son Robert. He was 94. During a financial career that spanned more than three decades, he showed little patience for
 Paul BartelPaul Bartel, a director, screenwriter and actor whose taste for farce, black humor and social satire was reflected in films like ''Eating Raoul,'' ''Death Race 2000'' and ''Scenes From the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills,'' died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 and
 W. D. McHardy, one of the world's leading Hebrew scholars and an important member of two teams that translated the Bible into British English, died on April 9 in Cullen, Scotland. He was 88. Mr. McHardy was one of 40 scholars who created the New English Bible, the first totally new 
 F. Barton Harvey Jr., who was managing partner, chairman and chief executive of the Baltimore investment firm that became Alex. Brown & Sons Inc., died on Monday at his home in Baltimore County, Md. He was 79. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his son Jack L
 Frederick Donald Coggan, a former archbishop of Canterbury and the first spiritual head of the Church of England to support the ordination of women, died on Wednesday night in a nursing home in southern England. He died after a long illness, according to a statement from Lambeth Palace, off
 Michel Kazan, who gave society and entertainment figures the bouffant hairdo and created the coiffures for the models of several fashion designers, died Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Inspired by historical styles, Mr. Kazan broug
 Murray Koenig, a retired judge of Bronx Criminal Court and later acting justice of New York State Supreme Court, died on Saturday in Miami Beach. A former resident of the Bronx, he was 85 and had lived in Aventura, Fla., since retiring from the bench in 1986. Judge Koenig attended C
 Dr. Richard Friederich Arens, a mathematician steeped in abstruse theories and abstractions, died on May 3 at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 81 and a resident of Los Angeles. The cause was a stroke, said the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Arens worked for 42 year
 Abner Levin, a music connoisseur and a former geAbner Levinneral manager of Sam Goody's record store in Manhattan, died on May 12 at a convalescent home in Hilo, Hawaii. He was 88. In 1948, at the dawn of the era of the long-playing record, Mr. Levin joined Sam Goody's to manage its
 Dr. Alexander Sandor Nadas, who trained generations of pediatrDr. Alexander Sandor Nadasic cardiologists at Children's Hospital in Boston and at Harvard Medical School, died on Tuesday at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 86. Dr. Nadas, a longtime former resident of Wellesley, Mass.
 Cesare Valletti, a lyric tenor whose performances Cesare Vallettiwere praised for their refinement and expressivity but who left opera in 1968 to run a family business that made him wealthy, died on Saturday in Genoa, Italy. He was 77 and lived in Milan. Walter Price, a friend of th
 Harlin Quist, a publisher of sophisticated childrenHarlin Quist's books, died last Saturday at the home of a niece in Minneapolis. He was 69. He was suffering from myasthenia  gravis and complications from a recent hip replacement, said Clare Zupetz, a niece. Mr. Quist maint
 John C. Sawhill, a former president of New York University who advised three presideJohn C. Sawhillnts on energy policy and for the last decade of his life was president and chief executive of the Nature Conservancy, died on Thursday at a hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 63 and lived in Was
 Robert W. Stone, an actor and teacher, died on May 11 in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Stone, who was professionally known as Robinson Stone, appeared on Broadway in ''Othello'' with Paul Robeson, ''Cyrano de Bergerac'' with Jose Ferrer, ''Macbeth'' with Michael Re
 Jean-Pierre Rampal, the French-born flutist who was the first virtuoso on his instrument to enjoy enormous success and celebrity as a touring soloist and who almost single-handedly took the flute to new levels of popularity in the decades after World War II, died yesterday at his home in Pa
 Robert Burr, a stage actor who played many of Shakespeare's most famous roles, died on May 13 in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was emphysema, said his son, Robert Jr. With a chiseled jaw and a sturdy physique, Mr. Burr was a top-rated amateur box
 Roger A. Morse, who turned a childhood interest in beekeeping into an encyclopedic knowledge that made him one of the best-known apiculturists in the world, died May 12 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 72. Dr. Morse, an entomology professor at Cornell University for more than 40 y
 David Bretherton, an Oscar-winning film editor, died on May 11 in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Bretherton, whose father was the director Howard Bretherton, edited some 50 films. He won an Academy Award for his work on the 1972 film adaptation of ''Cabaret,'' starring Liza Minnelli an
 David B. Guralnik, a lexicographer whose definitions of the American language guided tens of millions of people who thumbed through the dictionaries he edited, died on Friday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 79. He had colon cancer, his daughter, Eve Harrington, said.    
 Kermit I. Lansner, a member of the trio of editors who remade Newsweek magazine in the early 1960's and by doing so helped to shape the direction of weekly newsmagazines, and who later served as Newsweek's editor, died of complications from lung cancer on Saturday at New York University Hos
 The Rev. Ruben Dario Colon, who founded one of the first Lutheran churches in New York City to conduct services in Spanish, died May 5 in Orlando, Fla. He was 76 and lived in Sebring, Fla. The cause was lymphatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Colon was chairman of the Puerto 
 William Dale Jennings, a novelist, playwright and pioneer of the American gay rights movement, died of respiratory failure on May 11 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. He had moved to the area after graduation from high school in Denver more than six decades ago wit
 William Charles Segal, a magazine publisher whose search for self-understanding led him to paint his own portrait over and over for about 60 years as part of his immersion in philosophies and Eastern religions, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 95 and lived in New York and Paris. 
 Andrew Choa, an international banker and professional adviser, died on May 17 in a hospital in Mount Vernon, Va. He was 76. His family said he had had vascular disease for a year. Mr. Choa came to New York City from Hong Kong in 1945 with a scholarship to attend Fordham Univ
 Frenchy Bordagaray, who staged a one-man mustache revival in the major leagues while playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1936, becoming the personification of the Daffy Dodger, died April 13 at a nursing home in Ventura, Calif. He was 90. Like most of Depression America, the Dodgers
 Mark Reynolds Hughes, the multimillionaire founder of Herbalife International, a nutritional supplement company that has been controversial for both its products and sales methods, died last weekend in his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 44. His death appeared to be from natural cause
 Sir John Gielgud, one of the great actors of the English stage who enthralled audiences for more than 70 years with his eloquent voice and consummate artistry, died on Sunday at his home near Aylesbury,  northwest of London. He was 96. He was the last survivor of that triumvirate of
 Benjamin (Buzzy) Drootin, a Russian-born jazz drummer whose career spanned a half-century and who played with many leading jazz musicians, died on Sunday at the Actors Fund Retirement and Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 80. Mr. Drootin's family left Russia for the United Stat
 John Russell Blandford, a retired lawyer and former chief counsel to the House Armed Services Committee, died on May 16 at his home in Seabrook, S.C., after a long illness. He was 82. A 1946 graduate of Yale Law School, Mr. Blandford joined the legal staff of the Armed Services Comm
 Lee G. Brewster, whose Greenwich Village boutique became a bazaar for transvestites from Avenue A to Abu Dhabi, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Antoinette Scapinato, a friend and employee. His 5,000-square-foot superstor
 Oscar H. Shaftel, who was one of the original faculty members at Queens College when it opened in 1937 and was fired by the city in 1953 after he refused to answer a Senate subcommittee's questions about Communist affiliation in academia, died at his Queens home on May 10. He was 88.       
 Robert T. MacDonald, a former publisher of The International Herald Tribune, died on Friday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 69 and lived in Sarasota. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. MacDonald, a former executive vice president of The New York Herald Tribune, was named pu
 Don Gifford, a cultural historian and authority on James Joyce, died on Monday at a hospital in North Adams, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Williamstown, Mass. Mr. Gifford retired in 1984 from Williams College, where he was a professor of English and of American studies and had taught
 Ellis Kohs, a composer known for works in which contemporary harmonic ideas were combined with the structural elegance of Classical forms, died at a nursing home in Los Angeles on May 17. He was 84. Mr. Kohs was born in Chicago on May 12, 1916, and grew up in San Francisco, where he
 Gerald M. Kramer, a retired professor and former chairman of periodontology in the Boston University School of Dental Medicine, died on May 18 at a hospital in Boston after a long illness. He was 77 and lived in Swampscott, Mass. Dr. Kramer practiced periodontics, treating the bone 
 Gideon W. Waldrop, a composer and administrator, who served for 24 years as dean of the Juilliard School of Music and for nearly three years as president of the Manhattan School of Music, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Waldrop was born on Sept. 2, 1919, on a
 Morris Harrell, an influential Texas lawyer and former president of the American Bar Association, died on Tuesday in Dallas, where he lived. He was 80. Mr. Harrell was also a former president of the Dallas Bar Association, the State Bar of Texas, the American College of Trial Lawyer
 Norman Drachler, superintendent of the Detroit school system during its most volatile period in the late 1960's and a champion of integrating both the administration and student body, died on Saturday at a hospital in Phoenix. He was 88 and lived in Phoenix. ''He believed in
 Erich Mielke, the former head of the dreaded East German security agency known as the Stasi, has died at 92, German officials said yesterday. The daily Kurier said Mr. Mielke had died May 21 in a home for the elderly in his native Berlin. From 1957 until the Berlin Wall fell in 1989
 Dr. Seymour Perry, a cancer specialist who became an expert in evaluating medical technology, died on May 19 at his home in Washington. He was 78. The cause of death was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Perry, who also served briefly as an assistant surgeon general, wor
 Yevgeny Vasilevich Khrunov, an early Russian astronaut who took part in the first linkup of two manned spacecraft high above the earth, has died at the age of 67. In reporting his death from Moscow on Tuesday, the news agency Itar-Tass said that several of his fellow astronauts had gathered
 Francis Lederer, a Czech-born actor whose dark good looks made him a suave, continental character in films from the silent era through the 1950's and who continued to teach weekly acting classes in Los Angeles until just a few weeks ago, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. 
 Richard E. Nolan, a lawyer who represented the Roman Catholic Church in some of the most important court cases involving religion and government in the last 40 years, died Monday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. He died at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan of complications from a s
 Dr. Seymour S. Kety, a major figure in the field of biological psychiatry whose contributions revolutionized the study of schizophrenia and other major mental illnesses and yielded novel methods for studying the human brain at work, died on Thursday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 84.
 Tony Arefin, a self-taught graphic designer and art director of periodicals, art catalogs and advertisements who was responsible for influential ad designs like the handwritten look of the current I.B.M. ''magic box'' campaign, died on May 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 3
 Al Simon, who helped create some of early television's most successful sitcoms as well as the technical wherewithal to save them on high-quality film for summer reruns and syndication, died on Tuesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 88. Mr. Simon joined the world of television in 19
 Edward L. Bernds, one of Hollywood's first sound effects producers and a director of comedy shorts starring the Three Stooges, died on May 20 at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Bernds began his career as a radio operator in Chicago. He went to Hollywood in 1928 as a soun
 Frank G. Wangeman, one of the first hotel managers to integrate modern business management techniques with Old World attention to guests and a mentor to a generation of hotel managers, died Monday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 88. In his 39 years with the Hilton Hotels
 Kiyoshi Kuromiya, who was born in an internment camp for Japanese-Americans and spent much of his life battling for civil rights and relief for AIDS patients, died on May 10 in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 57. The cause was complications of AIDS. When Mr. Kuromiya wa
 Maurice Richard, the charismatic star of the Montreal Canadiens through the 1940's and 1950's known as the Rocket, one of the most electrifying goal-scorers in National Hockey League history and a revered figure in French-speaking Canada, died yesterday in a hospital in Montreal. He was 78.
 Alfred LevittAlfred Levitt, a worldly American painter and photographer who rubbed shoulders with noted artists in his long life, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 105 and lived in Greenwich Village. Mr. Levitt immigrated to New York from Ukraine in 1911 and became an artist aft
 Richard M. BlochRichard M. Bloch, a pioneer in the development and design of digital computers, died of cancer on May 22  in Framingham, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Marlborough, Mass. As chief operations officer at Harvard University's Computation Laboratory in the 1940's, Mr. Bloc
 Maurice Richard, the charismatic star of the Montreal Canadiens through the 1940's and 1950's known as the Rocket, one of the most electrifying goal scorers in National Hockey League history and a revered figure in French-speaking Canada, died Saturday in a hospital in Montreal. He was 78. 
 Eric Turner, the Oakland Raiders defensive back who was a two-time All-Pro during his nine seasons in the National Football League, died Sunday at a hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 31. The cause was apparently complications of abdominal cancer, according to Craig Stevens, t
 Samuel Taylor, who wrote Broadway confections like ''Sabrina Fair'' and ''The Pleasure of His Company''  and worked on the script for the  Hitchcock thriller ''Vertigo,'' died on Friday at his home in Blue Hill, Me. He was 87. Favoring the genre in which Philip Barry famously tweake
 Robert P. Casey, the governor of Pennsylvania from 1987 to 1994, whose strong opposition to abortion put him at odds with the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Scranton, where he lived. He was 68. The cause was an infection. Mr. Casey helped to draw national attention to o
 Robert Fryer, the producer or co-producer of many Broadway hits including ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Auntie Mame'' and its musical adaptation ''Mame,'' ''Sweet Charity,'' ''Chicago'' and ''Noises Off,'' died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was comp
 Dr. Toyoichi Tanaka, a biophysicist whose fascination with polymer compounds led him to create the ''smart'' gels that are having an important impact on chemistry, medicine, agriculture and other fields,  died on May 20 in Wellesley, Mass., where he lived. He was 54. Dr. Tanaka suff
