 George Rochberg, an American composer who broke ranks with the rigorous modernism of the mid-century avant-garde to write music of rare urgency and candor, died on Sunday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86 and made his home in Newtown Square, Pa. The cause was complications o
 Herbert Warren Wind, whose richly detailed prose graced the pages of The New Yorker and Sports Illustrated for 43 years and established him as the dean of American golf writers, died Monday in an assisted-living facility in Bedford, Mass. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, said his
 John D'Amico, a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame who worked as a National Hockey League linesman for 23 years, died Sunday in Toronto. He was 67. The cause was leukemia and bone cancer, the league said. D'Amico served as an N.H.L. official from 1964 to 1987, working numerou
 BOLKA--Arnold Robert, 81, died in Scottsdale May 31. Founder of The Licensing Letter, he is survived by his wife of 59 years, Muriel, his daughter, Sindy Hervin, sons Scott and Matt, two sisters, Annabelle Gunn and Sandra Gordon, three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. BOLK
 BROCK--J. Dan, formerly of Miami, Florida, and presently of Winston-Salem, NC, died peacefully at Brookridge Retirement Home, Sunday morning, May 29, 2005. He was 89 years old and was a well-recognized leader in the airline industry. Mr. Brock was born on a farm outside of Montgomery, Alaba
 CHILTON--Harold. Beloved husband of the late Jocelyn. Devoted father of Sue Lubin (N.Y.) and Steven (Mass.). Adored grandfather of three. He was an active community member for over 40 years as President of the Pelham Parkway Jewish Center and held leadership positions in many organizations 
 FERGUSON--David. Age 52, died peacefully on May 29 of brain cancer. Devoted husband and best friend to Nancy; inspiring father to Alec, Jessie and Sarah; beloved brother to Margaret, Gretchen and Mary. He opened the California office for Davis, Polk & Wardwell in 1999. His boundless energy 
 HEALEY -- John Anthony, ''Tony.'' Died on May 28 in New York City at the age of 69 after long suffering from the effects of the neurological disease Multiple Systems Atrophy (MSA). He is survived by his beloved family: wife Louise, daughter Virginia, son John, daughter-inlaw Christina and t
 LEVINE--Arthur, on May 31, 2005. Beloved husband of Marcia; devoted father of Jeffrey and Betty Ann, Michael & Marjorie; adoring grandfather of Ashley, Bradley, Alexandra, Emily, Caroline & Jonathan; loving brother of Judy. Service Thursday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amst
 MUDD--Sidney P. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Sidney P. Mudd, extraordinary friend, longstanding member and Chair of the Board of Trustees. He believed passionately in the mission of the College, and with gentle, steady hand led us to new heights thr
 PERRIN--Forrest G. Pianist, musical director, and society orchestra leader, died of pneumonia on Friday, May 27th, 2005, in New York City at the age of 88. He is survived by his loving wife Lesley Davison Perrin; two children, Wendy Perrin Baker and Christopher Scott Perrin; two grandchildr
 SCHLOSSMAN--Abraham M.D., age 87, died on May 30, 2005 from complications of an accident on May 13. He is survived by his loving and beloved wife of 53 years, Carolyn and his adored and adoring daughter, Nina. An internationally known ophthalmologist, his passions were his family, professio
 TYLER--Harold R. Jr. The Trustees of the Practising Law Institute record with deep sorrow the loss of our friend and colleague, Harold R. Tyler, Jr., a trustee since 1979, and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Werner L. Polak, Chairman Stephen J. Friedman, Pres.       
 WRANGEL--Baron Alexis, 83, of Tara, County Meath, Ireland, died peacefully on May 27, 2005 after a lengthy illness. He is survived by his wife Diana and his sister Nathalie Basilevsky as well as an extended family. Baron Wrangel was a diplomat, author, equestrian and former U.S. Air Force O
 Forrest Perrin, a pianist and orchestra leader who for decades provided the soundtrack for society and fashion events, died on Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 88 and lived on the West Side of Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Perrin le
 George Mikan, the Minneapolis Lakers center who was the first superstar in modern professional basketball and a player so big and so dominant that college and pro rules were changed in an effort to handcuff him, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 80.      
 Gershon Jacobson, the founder, editor and publisher of Der Algemeiner Journal, one of the largest Yiddish-language weekly newspapers in North America, died on Sunday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of diabetes, his 
 Israel Epstein, a journalist, author and propagandist for China whose passion for Communism was fueled in long interviews with Mao in the 1940's and was not dimmed by imprisonment during the Cultural Revolution, died last Thursday at a hospital in Beijing. He was 90. His death was a
 BEN-HAIM--Rabbi Baruch. ''If not for the Torah, the heavens and earth would not have existed.'' Our Rabbis teach us that the continuous study of Torah sustains the entire world. The Magen David Yeshivah family mourns the passing of our deeply loved and highly respected Rabbi Baruch Ben-Haim
 FONTANALS--George, on June 1, 2005, of Old Chatham, NY, on his 70th birthday. Beloved husband of Jane Friend, loving father of George, Jr. of East Hampton, NY, Jennifer Fontanals Woolford of Wilmette, IL, their mother Mary Ann Fontanals; cherished grandfather of Aubrey and Cooper Woolford, 
 FORREST--Morton, on May 31, 2005. Beloved husband of Vicki, devoted father of Joshua and Benay, loving grandfather of Samantha and Anaya. His enduring spirit, intelligence, love of life and courage will be sorely missed by all who knew him.       
 GELERIS--Paul. The American Technion Society (ATS) expresses its profound sorrow at the loss of Dr. I. Paul Geleris of Glendora, CA, a longtime, committed supporter. Along with his wife Marilyn, Dr. Geleris was a Technion Guardian, having reached the highest level of support for Israel, the
 HALLINGBY--Paul, Jr, beloved husband of Jo, adoring brother of Cecile, devoted father of Leigh, Barney and Allison, and loving grandfather of Brooke, Bailey, Jennie and Tyler. His character, spirit, integrity and warmth will be missed by all of those whose lives he touched. In lieu of flowe
 HOROWITZ--Mortimer. New York Metropolitan Region United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism extends our condolences to Jeffry Horowitz on the loss of his father. May his memory be for a blessing. Jerry I. Klibanoff, President Bruce F. Greenfield Executive Director       
 HORWITZ--Marshall S., M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with immense sadness the sudden passing of our beloved Chair of Microbiology & Immunology. A member of the Einstein faculty for nearly 40 years, Dr. Horwitz also was the Leo and Julia Forchheimer 
 JACOBS--Daniel, 89, attorney, father of Stephen, Carol and Lois, grandfather and greatgrandfather, passed away on May 24th in Delray Beach, FL. He will be lovingly remembered at a memorial service this Sunday, June 5 at 10 AM at the Reform Temple of Forest Hills, 71-11 112th Street, Forest 
 KAUFMAN--Hilda. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to our dear son-in-law on the loss of his beloved mother, a lady in every way. Edward and Hannah Low and family       
 LEVINE--Arthur. Employees of Ronart Leasing Corp. regret the passing of their esteemed President. His guidance, wisdom and devotion to our company and to the taxicab industry will be sorely missed.       
 LIEBERMAN--William S. The Trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts are deeply saddened by the death of our good friend and longtime Trustee, William S. Lieberman. We will always be grateful for his guidance and council during his many years of service on AFA's Exhibitions Commi
 MONDROW--Stanley S., M.D. The Medical Staff Society of New York Hosptial Queens, mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague and extends its heartfelt sympathies to his family. David H. Snyder, M.D. President Gabriel F. DeAngelis, M.D. Vice President Jack M. Mann, M.D. Secretary/Treasure
 SCHLAM--Peter R. June 1, 2005. Beloved son of the late Isaac and the late Stella Schlam. Loving brother of Virginia K. Parks. Devoted uncle of Christopher S. Parks and Amanda K. Parks. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Thursday, June 2, 79PM at Frank E
 SCHLOSSMAN -- Abraham, M.D. The Board of Directors, Management, Physicians and Staff of Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital mourn the death of Dr. Abraham Schlossman. Dr. Schlossman, recognized worldwide for jointly describing the Posner Schlossman syndrome, was a respected clinician, teac
 SCHNABEL -- Eileen. The Board of Directors of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center notes with great sadness the passing of Eileen Schnabel, wife of our esteemed Board member, Donald Schnabel. We send our deepest sympathies to Don and his son Eric at this time of great loss. Peter Fre
 TYLER--Harold R. We are profoundly saddened at the passing on May 25 of our sole surviving name partner, the Honorable Harold R. Tyler. Judge Tyler was a partner with the firm from 1977 to 1991 and Of Counsel from 1992 until his death. Judge Tyler's distinguished career prior to joining the
 COLBURN--Richard D. Beauty is truth, truth beauty, that is all ye know on earth and all ye need to know. (Keats) Honoring the first anniversary of his death on June 3, 2004, A dominant figure on the stage of Classical Music, missed by his many friends all over the world. How sad we are to a
 Paul Hallingby Jr., an investment banker who helped develop the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, died yesterday at his home in Sutton Place in Manhattan. He was 85 and also had homes in Southampton and in Lyford Cay, Bahamas. His death was announced by his wife, Jo Davis H
 William S. Lieberman, a legendary museum figure who held top curatorial posts at both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, steering major collections to the institutions, died in his sleep at his home in Manhattan on the night of May 31. He was 82. The appare
 George Mikan, the Minneapolis Lakers center who was the first superstar in modern professional basketball and a player so big and so dominant that college and pro rules were changed in an effort to handcuff him, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 80.      
 William S. Lieberman, a legendary museum figure who held top curatorial posts at both the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, steering major collections to the institutions, died in his sleep at his home in Manhattan on the night of May 31. He was 82. The appare
 Dr. E. Harris Nober, an audiologist who helped establish national standards for loudness in the alarms of residential smoke detectors and introduced strobe flashes to alert the hearing impaired, died on May 23 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 77. The cause was liver cancer, his 
 Leslie Smith, who for several decades after World War II was the world's largest automaker, at least in part because he made the world's smallest autos, died on May 26 at his home in North London. Mr. Smith, a founder, president and longtime chief executive of Matchbox Toys, was 87.        
 DAYAN--Michael. Beloved husband of Marsha. Adored father of Alex, Monique and Lisa. Devoted brother of Mimi. He was a special grandpa, son-in-law, brother-in-law and friend. Michael served in combat with the U.S. Army and then spent a lifetime in the fashion business. We are really going to
 McCARTNEY--Charles G. Age 80, and a longtime resident of Pelham Manor, New York, died June 2, 2005. Survived by Joan Maust, his wife of 54 years, father of John, Mary, Drew, Ray and Margie, and grandfather of Charlie, Madeleine, Sam, Lauren and Liam. Veteran of the Battle of the Bulge, awar
 SARIS--Frank E. On June 3, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Callie. Loving and most devoted father of Emanuel and George. Dearest fatherin-law of Stephanie. Cherished grandfather of Frankie and Eleni. Legal Counsel and Governing Attorney for the Dodecanesa. General Manager of the Harmonie 
 SEALY--Palmer Jr. The governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Palmer Sealy Jr., a distinguished commercial real estate broker and REBNY member for nearly 40 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Polly, and the entire Sealy fam
 Dale Velzy, a master surfboard maker widely considered one of the men responsible for the rise of the California surfer culture in the years after World War II, died on May 26 at a hospital in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 77 and lived in San Clemente. The cause was lung cancer, said
 BEN-HAIM--Rabbi Baruch. The Yeshivah of Flatbush mourns the passing of beloved rabbi and pillar of the Brooklyn and New Jersey Sephardic communities Hacham Baruch Ben-Haim. Hacham Baruch served as Chief Rabbi of the community, and was the son-in-law of Chief Rabbi Yaakov Kassin, A''H. A man
 DAVOL--Rector Thomson, M.D. Dr. Davol, 90, of Greenwich, CT died in Greenwich May 29, 2005. The cause of death was cardio-respiratory arrest. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on May 21, 1915 and moved to Stamford, CT in 1924. Dr. Davol was a graduate of Yale, Class of 1937 and received his M.D. 
 DAYAN--Michael. Beloved husband of Marsha. Adored father of Alex, Monique and Lisa. Devoted brother of Mimi. He was a special grandpa, son-in-law, brother-in-law and friend. Michael served in combat with the U.S. Army and then spent a lifetime in the fashion business. We are really going to
 FINK--Paul, 91, devoted husband of the late Enid Baskin Fink, father of Robert and Matthew Fink and the late Jonathan Baskin, on May 25, 2005, in Hamden, CT. Memorial service to be held at 1 PM June 8 at Temple Israel, 14 Coleytown Road, Westport, CT. Please call 203 227-1293 for directions
 FITZHUGH--William Wyvill Jr., 90, on June 2, 2005, at Kendal at Hanover, NH. Formerly of Brooklyn, Garden City and Chappaqua, NY, and Norwich, VT. Survived by his wife Florence Hardy, four children, seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. Memorial service to be held in Hanover thi
 GOLDSMITH--Leonard. 86, formerly of Caldwell, NJ, died peacefully at home in Tacoma, WA, May 28th. Born in Worcester, MA, a graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, he played clarinet and sax in a big band. He served as captain in US Army in WW II, installing radar in Latin America. He 
 HOROWITZ -- Marshall S., M.D. All the staff members of the Department of Pediatrics of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine are stunned and saddened by the sudden passing of our beloved colleague of nearly 40 years. The quintessential physician-s
 LIEBERMAN--William S. Old friend. His work was his love. Art was his life. He knew where all the pictures were and he knew all the players. His connoiseurship in fluenced so many. Because of his friendships and a stature without equal, Bill acquired so many treasures for the museums he love
 MENDOZA - NAVA -- Jaime. Bolivian composer, age 79, died in Los Angeles on May, 31, 2005. Survived by his wife Billie and their family. For information, 818-361-7387.       
 OSSORIO--Frederic Eugene. Died May 27, 2005, in Boulder, CO. He was 85. The son of Miguel Jose Ossorio and Pacita Yanco de Ossorio, he was born July 13, 1919, in Manila, The Philippines. He graduated from Yale University and attended Harvard Business School. He married Siena H. de Roos Osso
 RAUCHER--Eva N. Died Saturday, May 28. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Loving mother of David and Steve. Mother-in-law of Jackie and Mona. Adored grandmother of Gary and his wife Alice, Amy, Cindy, Sam and Martin. Proud great-grandmother of Tobias. Services held May 31.       
 SALTZER--Daniel K., 95, passed away on May 29, 2005. He was the devoted husband of the late Pearl Saltzer and is survived by his beloved wife of 29 years, Lillian Saltzer. He is also survived by his adoring children, Linda Saltzer Janow and Jeffrey Lewis Saltzer, as well as grandchildren, P
 SARIS--Frank E. On June 3, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Callie. Loving and most devoted father of Emanuel and George. Dearest fatherin-law of Stephanie. Cherished grandfather of Frankie and Eleni. Legal Counsel and Governing Attorney for the Dodecanesa. General Manager of the Harmonie 
 SEALY--Palmer Jr. Passed away on June 2, 2005, after a courageous four year battle with cancer at his home in Brookville, NY. He was 69 years old. Palmer was a loving and dedicated husband to Polly, his wife of 42 years; to his children Chip, Dave and Jeff; to his daughters-in-law Sheila, S
 WEINSTEIN -- Nathan. Died June 2, 2005. Survived by his wife Priscilla (Chartrand Ballard), three daughters, Joyce Weinstein of New York City, Nancy Weinstein (Thomas Gildea) of Newark, Delaware and Susan Weinstein (Adam Rubinson) of Washington, DC and 3 grandchildren. Born and raised in Bo
 YOCHER--Ignatius G., 85, of Brooklyn, NY, on April 30, 2005. Born in Utting, Germany, 1919. Survived by beloved wife of 54 years Renate; son George and his wife Celeste; grandchildren Peter and Elizabeth; sister Mary Foody; nieces Anne Wheatley and Mary Miller. A man of intelligence and wit
 ZIPSER--Herman Benjamin. Died June 4, 2005, at the age of 95. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor, loving father and father-in-law of Marcia and Robert Hefter and Myra and Jack Korman, adored grandfather of Michele and Victor Seitles and Jason Hefter, doting great-grandfather of Madeline an
 Robert Plate, a freelance writer and author of historical biographies for young people, died on May 14 at his brother's home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 86 and formerly lived in Woodstock, N.Y. His death, after a long illness, was announced by his family. Mr. Plate wrote ''
 Walter Schaap, a jazz fan who became one of the first jazz scholars, died in New York on May 28. He was 87 and lived in Hollis, Queens. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, the jazz historian and broadcaster Phil Schaap. Mr. Schaap studied French history at Columbia U
 Dr. Marshall S. Horwitz, a virologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine who studied potential keys to the immune system held by adenoviruses, a group of about 40 DNA viruses often affecting children, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital on Long Island. He was 68 and l
 Jon Idígoras, a founder of the Basque separatist party that is considered the political arm of the militant group ETA, died Friday at the Vicente San Sebastián de Deusto Clinic in Bilbao, Spain. He was 69, and lived in nearby Amorebieta. The cause was complications from a respirat
 FERGUSON -- David. The partners of Davis Polk & Wardwell wish to express their deepest sympathy to the family of David Ferguson. David was an exceptional lawyer, a dedicated partner and a cherished friend. He joined Davis Polk in 1980 and was a founding member of our Menlo Park office in 19
 GREENWALD -- Dr. Henry. 84, died peacefully after a long illness at his Palm City, FL, home. He practiced Internal Medicine and Hematology in Manhattan. His hospital affiliation was Beth Israel. He was a superb teacher, a dedicated physician to his patients, and friend to many. He is loved 
 SEALY--Palmer Jr. My family and I send our deepest condolences to the Sealy family on the passing of Palmer. Palmer was my friend and mentor who guided me in the beginnings of my real estate career. He will be greatly missed. Norman Jacobson & Family       
 SIMMONS--Walter H. Born January 20, 1931, in Columbia, South Carolina. Passed away at home surrounded by his loving children on May 28, 2005. He served his country during the Korean War, Engineering Corps in the US Army. Walter graduated from Clemson College where he received a degree in Ar
 YOCHER--Ignatius G., 85, of Brooklyn, NY, on April 30, 2005. Born in Utting, Germany, 1919. Survived by beloved wife of 54 years Renate; son George and his wife Celeste; grandchildren Peter and Elizabeth; sister Mary Foody; nieces Anne Wheatley and Mary Miller. A man of intelligence and wit
 ZIPSER--Herman Benjamin. Died June 4, 2005, at the age of 95. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor, loving father and father-in-law of Marcia and Robert Hefter and Myra and Jack Korman, adored grandfather of Michele and Victor Seitles and Jason Hefter, doting great-grandfather of Madeline an
 Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, the scholarly Mexican diplomat and politician whose independent struggle for democracy helped end 71 years of single-party rule but whose outspokenness infuriated leaders on both sides of the border, was killed Sunday in a traffic accident while driving back from his 
 Dr. Benjamin D. Paul, a medical anthropologist at Stanford University who edited an influential textbook on ways that traditional communities struggle to accept health innovations, died on May 24 in a nursing home in Atlanta. He was 94. The cause was complications stemming from a st
 Hy Peskin, a master action photographer who took some of the most arresting sports images of the 1940's, 50's and 60's before starting a second career as a philanthropist and entrepreneur under the name Brian Blaine Reynolds, died in Israel last Thursday. He was 89. His death was an
 ALLEN--Alvin B. Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Alvin B. Allen, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Helaine, brother-inlaw Teddy Berenson & other members of his family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 COLE--Sylvan. The Board of Directors of the Fire Island Pines Arts Project mourns the loss of its Founder and Longtime President. Through his efforts a legacy of creative endeavors was established for the community he loved. Sylvan's indefatigable spirit will remain for all time. We extend 
 DUBIN--Harold. Born March 26th, 1930, died peacefully at his home in New York City on May 21. Born in Boston, Harold was the youngest son of the late John and Mildred Dubin, brother to Maurice (Silver Spring, MD) and Joseph (La Jolla, CA). Harold was a graduate of Boston College and the Har
 FELDMAN--Daniel S., M.D.. 79, Professor Emeritus of Neurology at the Medical College of Georgia, died on June 5, 2005. Survivors are his wife, Elaine B. Feldman, M.D., a daughter, two sons, three grandchildren and a brother. Contributions to Neurology Department at MCG.       
 GARDAM--David J., Jr., 76, of Pinehurst, NC, formerly of Short Hills, NJ died on June 3, 2005. Mr. Gardam spent nearly all of his career with RCA. He worked as a Training Manager in Harrison, NJ as Personnel Manager in Marion, IN, and as Administrator, Labor Relations, on the RCA corporate 
 GROSS--Mel W. Age 58. Vice President of Aron Streit Matzo Bakers. Died peacefully June 5 from complications following a stroke in early March. Beloved husband of Kathi. Devoted son of Muriel Fisher and the late Aaron Gross. Adored father of Bari, Matthew, Aaron, Tiffani, Samantha and Michae
 HALLINGBY--Paul Jr. A Memorial service will take place on Wednesday, June 8, 2005, at 5 PM, at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, at 73rd Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: Parkinson's Disease Foundation, Inc, Development Office, 1359 Broadway, Su
 IMBER--Isaac. The community of West End Synagogue is deeply saddened by the death of founding member Isaac Imber and extends its condolences to his family and to his beloved companion Esther Heyman. Isaac's was a rare spirit, full of wonder and awe, coupled with an abiding commitment to sch
 NADLER--Arch. With great sorrow, we announce the passing of Arch Nadler, on June 4, 2005. Born Aaron Nadler in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on April 11, 1924, to Samuel Nadler (from Bucharest, Romania ) and Clara Rubin (from Iasi, Romania), he came to the United States in 1955. An accomplished 
 PAUL--Marvin. Devoted and beloved husband, father, grandfather and brother, died peacefully at home in North Woodmere, L.I. on June 3, 2005. He was surrounded by his daughters. He joins his late, great wife of 43 years, Harriet. He will be sorely missed by his children Nina, Caryn (Sam), Da
 PUCCI--Albert John, 85, died May 30, 2005 of heart failure. Well-known, respected artist, and inspiration to all. Grateful are his wife, three children, and six grandchildren.       
 APFELBAUM--Shirley. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sorrow the death of Shirley Apfelbaum, mother of Bill Apfelbaum who, with his wife, Bonnie, is a generous benefactor of our Division of Child Development and Learning. We extend our deepest condolences to all 
 COLE -- Sylvan, 1918 - 2005. With profound sorrow, the International Fine Print Dealers Association (IFPDA) announces the passing of esteemed member, Sylvan Cole, on Saturday, June 4th, 2005. A highly respected art dealer and author, he was an expert in American prints and printmakers. As d
 ELBAUM--Izak. The Heschel School community mourns the loss of Izak Elbaum beloved father of Trudy Elbaum Gottesman and fatherin-law of Bob Gottesman. Izak was the deeply cherished grandfather of Heschel students Sarah and Ben. He was a noble survivor of the Shoah, a learned person, who was 
 GARDAM--David J., Jr., 76, of Pinehurst, NC, formerly of Short Hills, NJ died on June 3, 2005. Mr. Gardam spent nearly all of his career with RCA. He worked as a Training Manager in Harrison, NJ as Personnel Manager in Marion, IN, and as Administrator, Labor Relations, on the RCA corporate 
 HYNES--Michael Francis on June 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Cindy (nee Castro). Loving father of Genevieve and Michael. Dear brother of Blanche Cincotta and Kathleen. Funeral Thursday 8:30 A.M. from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Rd, Bklyn. Mass of Christian Burial 9:30 A.M. St. 
 KAPIT--Milton E. The Post graduate Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of our distinguished founding member. We send condolences to his wife Hanna and family.       
 MOGEY--John Macfarland. On June 5, 2005 at home. Long time Professor of Sociology at Boston University. Teacher, author, theoretician and poet. He will be missed.       
 NOWAK--Amram. Died suddenly June 6, 2005. Mr. Nowak was President and Creative Director of Amram Nowak Associates, the film production company which he founded in 1965. Mr. Nowak produced, directed or wrote over two hundred documentary and dramatic films on a wide variety of subjects rangin
 RAIFMAN--Jerome S., CPA, Esq. Graduate of Brooklyn Law School 1967, passed peacefully at age sixty-one. Beloved husband of Gail. Devoted father of Beth, Charles, Alyson and Jeffrey. Fatherin-law of Erik, Helena, and Ira. Cherished grandfather of Abigail Rose Kaplan, Noah Hayden Kaplan, and 
 WAHL--Hy. 86. Our family mourns the loss of our beloved father. Devoted husband to the love of his life for 52 years, Zelda. Adoring father to Penny, Lynn and Allen. Loving grandfather to Rochelle and David, Andrew and Lauren, and Brandon. Loving great-grandfather to Zachary, wonderful brot
 Floriano Vecchi, an Italian-born artist, silkscreen printer and art publisher of the Warhol era in Greenwich Village, died on Friday at his home in the Village. He was 84. His death was announced by a friend, Rick Whitaker of the Italian Academy at Columbia University. Mr. V
 ARNOLD--Herbert, formerly of Manhattan, Wednesday, June 8. Husband of Ethel (Pritzker) Arnold. Father of Dr. Richard M. Arnold & his wife Ruth Levine Arnold of Newton, MA. Grandfather of Jessica, Jonathan and Jared. Brother of the late Stanley, George & Samuel Aronowitz. Services in Brookli
 DANON--Danny died on May 6, 2005, the day after his 34th birthday, at Mount Sinai Hospital in NYC from complications arising during emergency surgery on February 3rd. He is survived by his wife, the former Rachel Hossenlopp of Hoboken, NJ and Amagansett, NY and by his parents, Shai and Dali
 DEWTON--Joseph (Pepi), an Austrian immigrant, died at the age of 95 at Vantage House in Columbia, MD., on June 8, 2005. He is survived by his wife of 71 years, Lilly Bing Dewton of Columbia and his daughter Ruth Eva Dewton of Columbia and Dillon, CO. Graveside services will be held May 10, 
 KAPIT--Dr. Milton. 91, died June 1. Beloved husband of Dr. Hanna Kapit. Father of four, grandfather of eight. Distinguished psychoanalyst, known for his warmth and encyclopedic knowledge of the history of psychoanalysis.       
 NOWAK--Amram. Died suddenly June 6, 2005. Mr. Nowak was President and Creative Director of Amram Nowak Associates, the film production company which he founded in 1965. Mr. Nowak produced, directed or wrote over two hundred documentary and dramatic films on a wide variety of subjects rangin
 STUECKLEN--Karl W. A free-spirit artist, painter of landscapes and portraits and illustrator of cooking and gardening books, died at his home in Sandgate, Vermont on April 24, 2005, after a long illness. He was 64. There will be a Memorial Service and celebration of his life at the Sandgate
 TEBET--David W. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved member, David Tebet. A member of the Friars Club for almost five decades, David was fierce in his dedication, talent, and efforts in producing the Friars legendary Testamon
 Sylvan Cole, an internationally recognized art dealer who helped foster the explosion of printmaking and print collecting in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a Fire Island home on Long Island. The 
 Arthur Dunkel, a self-effacing Swiss diplomat who shepherded negotiators from five continents through more than seven years of contentious talks that led to freer trade and the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1995, died Wednesday in Geneva. He was 72. His death followed 
 David L. Weld, a biologist who at his death was the executive director of the American Lyme Disease Foundation, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said Mr. Weld's brother William F. Weld, the former Massachusetts governor. David 
 Howard Boyer, a former editor at Harvard University Press who published the work of prominent scientists like Stephen Jay Gould, Edward O. Wilson and Ernst Mayr, died on May 4 in a hospice in San Francisco. He was 61 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was hepatitis, his former wi
 DOHERTY--Sean of NYC died suddenly at NYU Medical Center on Monday (June 6, 2005). Sean was the loving husband of Meg, the beloved brother of Una, Patrick, Teddy, Noel, Mari Byron and the late Kathleen O'Brien, and the dear uncle of many nieces and nephews. Born in Ireland, Sean has lived i
 PIRANI--Conrad L., M.D. The Department of Pathology of Columbia University notes with sadness the passing of Conrad Levi Pirani, M.D., an internationally recognized expert in diseases of the kidney, who died of heart failure at age 90 on May 28 in Pittsfield, Mass. Dr. Pirani, who founded C
 RANKINE -- L. John. The Board of Directors of the Friends of Glasgow University, Inc. mourns the passing of L. John Rankine, its Secretary, and shares this great sense of loss with his family.       
 STUECKLEN--Karl W. A free-spirit artist, painter of landscapes and portraits and illustrator of cooking and gardening books, died at his home in Sandgate, Vermont on April 24, 2005, after a long illness. He was 64. There will be a Memorial Service and celebration of his life at the Sandgate
 TAYLOR--George. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime Temple member, George Taylor. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 TRAURING--Samuel. The Jewish Center mourns the loss of our distinguished member, husband of Rachel Trauring, brother of Jack and Naftali Trauring. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, 
 Hamilton Naki, a laborer who became a self-taught surgeon of such skill that Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard chose him to assist in the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, but whose contribution was kept secret for three decades because he was a black man in apartheid-era South Africa, 
 CHERNOFSKY--Albert (Butch) on June 7, 2005. Beloved son of the late Sam and Sarah Chernofsky. Dear brother of Charles (Adrianne) Chernofsky, Myrna Chernock and the late Phyllis Wenger. Cherished uncle and great uncle and devoted Sensei. Services Sunday, June 12th, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside
 LEARY--Arthur T., 66, of Irvington, N.Y. On June 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Linda (nee Salomone). Loving father of Brian and his wife Wendy and Damon. Brother of Vincent and Katherine. Visiting Tuesday 7-9PM EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (Exit 17 Saw Mill), Dobbs Ferry, N.
 TSAGARIS--Theodore, a resident of Scarsdale, NY died Thursday June 9, 2005 at the age of 79. Ted was a beloved father, grandfather, patriarch of his family and patron of the classics and the arts. He was a graduate of New York University with a Master's in Naval Architecture and Nautical En
 Dr. Jack Munushian, a scientist in the aerospace industry and an educator at the University of Southern California who helped establish an innovative system to broadcast lectures to students off campus, died on May 28 in Los Angeles. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, said a cl
 APT--Harold Hugh. Age 77. Passed away June 2, 2005 after a heroic struggle with illness. Loving husband of Helen Beckhardt Apt and thoughtful father of Charles, Michael and Stephanie. Devoted friend to many, and lover of opera. An inspiration to his Army buddies and friends from Brinkmann I
 CHERNOFSKY--Albert. The New York Aikikai mourns the passing of our dear friend and Board member, Albert ''Butch'' Chernofsky. Our thoughts are with his family at this difficult time. He will be missed.       
 COLE--Sylvan. Died June 4th at home and at peace. Survived by his wife Mary (nee Myers), his children Nancy Kelly and Peter Pappas of Rochester, NY; Robert Cole of New Smyrna Beach, FL; James and Catherine Cole of Fleury En Biere, France; grandchildren Stacy Kelly and Bill Densmore, great g
 DUBIN--Harold. Born March 26th, 1930, died peacefully at his home in NYC on May 21. Harold was a graduate of Boston Univ. and the Harvard Business School. He was a retired Mobil Oil executive and a long time resident of NYC.       
 HORWITZ--Marshall S., M.D. All the staff members of the Department of Pediatrics of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine are stunned and saddened by the sudden passing of our beloved colleague of nearly 40 years. The quintessential physician-scie
 LEARY--Arthur T., 66, of Irvington, N.Y. On June 9, 2005. Beloved husband of Linda (nee Salomone). Loving father of Brian and his wife Wendy and Damon. Brother of Vincent and Katherine. Visiting Tuesday 7-9PM EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (Exit 17 Saw Mill), Dobbs Ferry, N.
 LEHMAN--Robert C. Suddenly, on June 7, 2005. He is the beloved husband to Jennifer O'Neil and loving and devoted father to Maggie (Margaret Johanna). The Lehmans were living in Austin, TX at the time of Robert's passing and had lived in Sydney, Australia and in NYC for many years. Robert is
 LEWIS--John S., M.D. Otolaryngologist and Head and Neck Surgeon Invented Surgical Resection of Temporal Bone, an operation to treat a previously inoperable cancer, while at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Born Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada; Died Pelham, NY, June 4, 2005, age 85, whe
 LEWIS--Raymond E. The International Fine Print Dealers Association (IFPDA) notes with profound sadness, the passing of Emeritus Member, Raymond E. Lewis. His San Francisco gallery, R.E. Lewis, Inc., founded in 1952, offered a wide range of fine prints to American museums and collectors from
 LISKOFSKY -- Sidney. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Sidney Liskofsky, a distinguished and beloved member of our staff for nearly half a century before his retirement in 1992. Sidney was instrumental in drafting some of the most important international human rights instrum
 PANZIRER--Leo E. Age 95, died peacefully at home on Friday, June 10, 2005. Beloved husband of Zelda (nee Silberstein). Adored and loving father of Bethany Gilboard (Bruce) and loving ''Papa Leo'' of Andrew and Sam. A practicing attorney for 60 years, he was greatly loved and admired by all 
 PITT--Edward. Edward Pitt died peacefully on June 9, 2005. He was born on April 4, 1950 in Somerset, England and later resided in New York City where he worked as Executive Manager of the Westbury and Algonquin Hotels as well as a brief business venture called the ''Saratoga Express'' culmi
 ROSS--Alexander A., 95, of West Orange, NJ died peacefully on June 9. Beloved husband of the late Matilda (Blumenthal), father of the late Daniel and grandfather of the late Alan, he is survived by his son Michael, daughter - in - law Leslie, daughter Elizabeth and grandchildren Christopher
 SCHAAP--Walter. The Sidney Bechet Society's Executive Vice President, Walter Schaap passed on May 28, 2005. A great loss to his family, the Bechet Society, the jazz world and humanity.       
 SCLAR--Stanley D. The family of Stanley D. Sclar mourns his passing on June 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Elaine for 59 years. Loving father of Arden Epstein and the late Karen James. Grandfather of Michelle and David James, and Laurence, Julie and Edward Epstein. Surrogate father to many.   
 SLOSS--Richard Arthur, 87, on June 5, 2005. Cherished husband of Rosalyn, beloved father of David, Ginny and Kathy, loved grandfather of Sophie, Sammy, Katharine and Gaby, and special fatherin-law to Elyse, Paul & Itshak; dear brother of Ellie and Jim Schatz and Dick and Joan Steele. He was
 SQUITIERI--Alan. Of Gainesville, Florida died Friday morning at his home. He was 92. Mr. Squitieri was born in New York City. He began his career as a violinist for the Columbia Broadcasting System. In 1976, he moved to Gainesville where he developed the Oaks Mall. His career in real estate
 TEDORI--Fred Sr., 78, died Sunday, May 30, 2005 in Dana Point, California after fighting valiantly with Parkinson's disease and cancer. Born in New York City on December 27, 1927, he was the son of Italian immigrants and an example of the American dream. Despite a challenging childhood, he 
 TSAGARIS--Theodore, a resident of Scarsdale, NY died Thursday June 9, 2005 at the age of 79. Ted was a beloved father, grandfather, patriarch of his family and patron of the classics and the arts. He was a graduate of New York University with a Master's in Naval Architecture and Nautical En
 FLAHERTY--Mark, Sr. Feb. 20, 1927-June 12, 2003. Still living in the hearts of those who love him. Ruth, Patricia and Mark Jr.       
 SHEPPARD--Dr. H.L. (Shep). At sunrise to sunset as long as we live we remember him as he is part of us. 13 years.       
 Roger G. Hall, a former executive for classical music at RCA Victor, died on Monday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Katherine Knight Hall. As the director of artists and repertory at RCA's Red Seal im
 Dr. Victor Wouk, an electrical engineer and entrepreneur who built one of the first hybrid cars, operating on both gasoline and electricity, died at his home in Manhattan on May 19. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his son Jordan. Dr. Wouk's hybrid, a modified 1972 Buic
 CHASE--Edward Tinsley. On June 9, at home in New York, at age eighty-six, following a long illness. He leaves his wife of fifty-six years, Ethelyn Atha Chase, two sons by a first marriage, Edward Thornton and Cornelius Crane Chase, two daughters, Cynthia Chase-Culler and Daphne Chase Rowe, 
 CLARKE--Jon. Age 54 of Los Angeles, CA, and Kauai, Hawaii, passed away Thursday June 9. Beloved husband of Miriam, nee Sosewitz. Amazingly loving father of Ian and Colin. Cherished brother of Michael (Gail), Vicky (Thrim), Sally, Charles (Patti) and Lydia (Markus). Dear son-in-law of Ben So
 ROSS--Alexander A., 95, of West Orange, NJ died peacefully on June 9. Beloved husband of the late Matilda (Blumenthal), father of the late Daniel and grandfather of the late Alan, he is survived by his son Michael, daughter - in - law Leslie, daughter Elizabeth and grandchildren Christopher
 SALKIND--William. Died Friday June 10, 2005, at the age of 91 after a long struggle with Parkinson's and lung disease. William was a career statistician, working in both the public and private sectors. He also taught statistics at Stevens Institute of Technology and CUNY. William received a
 SWORD--William Sr., 80, died at home Thursday June 9, 2005, in Princeton, NJ, where he had lived since graduating from Princeton University. Mr. Sword was an investment banker with two firms, Morgan Stanley and Wm Sword & Co. He joined Morgan Stanley in 1954, became a partner in 1962. He fo
 Capt. Slade D. Cutter, one of the Navy's most highly decorated submarine captains of World War II and a star athlete at the United States Naval Academy in the 1930's, died on Thursday in Annapolis, Md. He was 93. His death was announced by the United States Naval Academy Alumni Asso
 David Whitney, a respected curator and prominent collector of contemporary art who was Philip Johnson's companion, acerbic alter ego and behind-the-scenes art adviser for more than 40 years, died on Sunday at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. He was 66. The cause was 
 COOPER--Norman S., MD. Died June 11, 2005, at age 84. He is survived by wife Evelyn & son Jonathan, and his sister Rita with her spouse Stanley. He was a devoted father and husband as well as a conscientious member of the community. Dr. Cooper spent many years as a Professor of Pathology at
 FUERSTMAN--Myron N. Beloved husband of Noreen. Loving father of Joseph and Elizabeth. Cherished grandfather of Isabella, Margaux and Joseph. We will miss you immensely. Mr. Fuerstman served overseas in the paratroops during W.W. II and enjoyed a long career in the textile industry, distingu
 GUTMANN--Kurt, on June 13, 2005. Husband of the late Eva ''Charlotte'' (nee Hirschowitz), father of Jacqueline Gutmann, father-in-law of Bruce J. Goldstein, grandfather of Abigail, Ethan and Eli. Relatives and friends are invited to services Wednesday June 15, 2005 at 10:30 AM at Temple Bet
 LEVY--Walter Kahn, 75, died June 12, 2005 from pancreatic cancer. He was a resident of Larchmont, NY, founder of Walter K. Levy Associates, a management consulting firm serving an international clientele, and consultant to Goldman Sachs and Kurt Salmon Associates. Mr. Levy received his MS i
 NEMEROV--Arthur. Beloved husband to Shirley for over 56 years. Devoted father of Wendy Maurer (Jeffrey) and Jeffrey Nemerov (Carol). Cherished grandfather of Craig Maurer and Brooke Levy (Gordon) and Luke and Ashley Nemerov. Donations may be made to the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkins
 SCHATZ--S. Michael. 84, of Avon, Connecticut and Longboat Key, Florida, died Friday, June 10, at home. He leaves his beloved wife of sixty years, Norma (Hirshon) Schatz, and his children, Andrew Schatz and his wife Barbara Wolf of West Hartford, CT, Debra and her husband Mark Lefkowitz, of 
 TEMKIN--Meyer. On June 13, 2005, his 79th birthday. Beloved father of Liz and Michael. Devoted brother of Benny and Doris Temkin, Rose and Herb Simon. Adored uncle. An exceptional man who brought strength, wisdom, love and humor to so many people. He truly loved life and fought for each and
 WHITNEY -- David. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council mourn the loss of David Whitney, the constant companion to Philip Johnson for fortyfive years and a frequent presence at the Museum. David was never eager for the public credit he so richly de
 Richard Eberhart, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet considered one of the foremost writers of lyric verse in the 20th century, died on Thursday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 101. Mr. Eberhart's daughter, Gretchen Eberhart Cherington, confirmed the death. The author of seve
 Álvaro Cunhal, the longtime leader of Portugal's Communists and a faithful supporter of hard-line Stalinist views even as other Western European Communist parties shed their revolutionary slogans in the past two decades, died Monday, the Portuguese Communist Party announced. He was 91.    
 David Diamond, a major American composer whose early brilliance in the 1940's was eclipsed by the dominance of atonal music but who later experienced a renaissance, died on Monday evening. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Samuel Elliott, a close friend who too
 COONEY--John M. John Mason Cooney succumbed to cancer on June 13, 2005. He was 71 years old. This brought to a close a life devoted to education and community service, including 30 years of distinguished service at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. Cooney was born in 1933 and rai
 DIAMOND--David. The Juilliard School mourns the death of David Diamond. One of the most distinguished composers of the 20th century, he helped establish a distinctly American approach to works for orchestra. In addition to his remarkable compositions, David was an active and effective teach
 LIPMAN--Jesse B. Died June 14, 2005 at the age of 61 after living with chronic lymphocytic leukemia for 13 years. Beloved husband of Carolee, father of Dr. Hannah Lipman, Allison and Tony Bastos, Jennifer and Glen Katz. Brother of Barry Lipman, adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Jake, Michael 
 NEMEROV--Arthur. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for The Aged at Riverdale deeply mourn the passing of Arthur Nemerov, beloved husband of Shirley Nemerov, father of our friends Wendy Maurer and Jeffrey Nemerov, and fatherin-law of The Hebrew Home's esteemed Ch
 OVARY--Zoltan. The Department of Pathology of NYU School of Medicine mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Zoltan Ovary, M.D., Professor of Pathology, who died June 12, 2005, after 47 years of service on the faculty. One of the founders and early leaders in the field of immunology
 TEMKIN--Meyer. On June 13, 2005, his 79th birthday. Beloved father of Liz and Michael. Devoted brother of Benny and Doris Temkin, Rose and Herb Simon. Adored uncle. An exceptional man who brought strength, wisdom, love and humor to so many people. He truly loved life and fought for each and
 TWOMBLY--Edward B., Jr., The Board and staff of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth mourn the passing of Edward B. Twombly, Jr., an important leader, volunteer and friend. For over 48 years, Mr. Twombly was a member of Berkshire's Board of Directors and a tireless advocate for abus
 WHITNEY--David. We are deeply saddened by the loss of David, and the art world has lost a great friend. The Franz Kline exhibition at the Whitney Museum in 1994-1995, and the Willem de Kooning retrospective at the Gagosian Gallery last year, both of which David curated, showed his great sen
 Carlo Maria Giulini, the esteemed Italian conductor, an idealistic maestro acclaimed for his refined and insightful accounts of the standard orchestral repertory and for several now classic recordings of operas by Mozart and Verdi, died on Tuesday in Brescia in northern Italy. He was 91 and
 CAFFREY--Patrick, of Bayonne, NJ, and Venice, FL, former mailer for The New York Times in Carlstadt, New Jersey, passed away on June 3, 2005. He served two tours in Vietnam in the Army 1st Air Cavalry Division. He was one of the most highly decorated soldiers in the Vietnam War, having rece
 CORCORAN--Tommy. Dear Tommy, thank you for 35 years of wonderful friendship. A prized visit with you, via whatever, was always hilarious and insightful. Although never simple, you were simply the best! As I grieve, I especially extend deepest sympathy to your dear friends Joan and Teddy, wh
 DIAMOND--David. The Juilliard School mourns the death of David Diamond. One of the most distinguished composers of the 20th century, he helped establish a distinctly American approach to works for orchestra. In addition to his remarkable compositions, David was an active and effective teach
 FEIGENBAUM--Dr. Irving at age 86. A graduate of the University of Maryland School of Dentistry, he is survived by his wife of 54 years, Shirley (nee Kraman); his children Bob (Bobbie) and Susan (Barry) Scholnik; his grandchildren Jorie, Stacy, Audrey, Joanna and the late Jared; and his sist
 FLESH--Henry. Novelist, editor, beloved friend. In New York, June 5, 2005. We will remember his wit, his grace, his strength and generosity of spirit. Geoffrey, Kaalii, Heather       
 HARTSTEIN--Harold, DDS, on June 15, 2005. Beloved husband of Joan and predeceased by Betty. Father of Alan (Barbara), Louise (Stephen) and Barbara (James). Stepfather of Howard (Christine), Susan (Vincent) and predeceased by Jeffrey. Loving grandfather of David, Julie, Brooke, Jill and Bria
 KAHN--Theodore. Died June 5 at age 87. Retired, Ben Kahn Furs. Harvard class of 1940. Loving husband of the late Rachel Roitman. He leaves his beloved children Deborah and Daniel, and companion Lila Fierer.       
 LIPMAN--Jesse B. Died June 14, 2005 at the age of 61 after living with chronic lymphocytic leukemia for 13 years. Beloved husband of Carolee, father of Dr. Hannah Lipman, Allison and Tony Bastos, Jennifer and Glen Katz. Brother of Barry Lipman, adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Jake, Michael 
 NEMEROV--Arthur. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Nemerov, beloved father of Wendy Maurer, and father-in-law of Jeffrey Maurer, devoted friends whose dedication strengthens our efforts on behalf of the Jewish community wor
 SCHRENZEL -- Milton. Be loved husband of Shirley. Loving father of Jeffrey Schrenzel, Philippa Beth Scott and Paul Brophy. Cherished grandfather of Alex, Zach, Ariel, Lily, Nora, Will, Rachel and Benjamin. He died at his home in Delray Beach, FL on June 14, at 90. We already miss his genero
 SISKIND--Barry. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved Member, Barry Siskind, and extend our deepest sympathy to his children, Jeffrey, Stephen and Jill and their families. Philip Shapiro, President SISKIND--Barry 
 THORNTON--John V. The New York Law School community mourns the passing of John V. Thornton, former chairman of the Board of Trustees who led our school through one of its most transformative periods in the 1970's and 1980's. Mr. Thornton contributed his considerable talents and keen intelle
 Verne Meisner, a virtuoso accordionist and bandleader who helped keep the polka alive and swinging into the age of rock and beyond, died on Friday in Milwaukee. He was 66 and lived in Waukesha, Wis. The cause was complications of melanoma, his son Steve said. Considered one 
 Dr. Zoltan Ovary, an immunologist at New York University who conducted groundbreaking experiments that helped establish the mechanism that sets off allergic reactions, died on Sunday at N.Y.U. Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 98. The cause was pneumonia, said a close friend and c
 Edward Tinsley Chase, a retired book editor and writer who bought and shepherded hundreds of manuscripts, primarily on politics and public policy, into print at various New York publishing houses, died on June 9 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 86 and also had a home 
 KARLINER -- William, M.D. Age 94, on June 15, 2005. He is survived by his cherished wife and best friend Edith (Gross), his loving daughter Phyllis Lashins, his caring son-in-law Edward A. Lashins, his three beloved grandsons, Eric, Jeff (Sarah) and Ken, and his devoted brotherin-law and si
 LINDSAY--James K., Esq. 85, retired NYC attorney and life long advocate for the disadvantaged died in Amherst, MA on May 30, 2005. He was the son of Sadie Gombrich (the French actress Claudine LeDuc) and Robert Kenneth Lindsay, a salesman, and was born in Winnipeg, Alberta. In spite of an i
 O'CONNOR--John R., born on November 15, 1920 in Loretto, PA died on Thursday June 16, 2005 after a short illness in Franklin Hospital in Valley Steam, NY. He was a graduate of St. Francis University of Loretto, PA at the age of 19 and was honored as ''Distinguished Alumnus in Education'' in
 WHITNEY--David. We mourn the loss of our former Board member and long - time neighbor, David Whitney. Our sympathy to his family. Toni Ausnit Flynn, President Ted Voss, Vice President Museum Tower Condominium, The Board of Managers       
 Ross Stretton, an Australian dancer whose elegant classical style made him highly visible in leading roles with American Ballet Theater and the Joffrey Ballet in the 1980's before he became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and then, briefly, the Royal Ballet in London, died in Mel
 Joe Belden, who in 1940 founded the Texas Poll, the first statewide opinion survey and a model for others that followed, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 90. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Belden's scrupulous methodology helped opin
 BRUCKNER--Jack L. On Saturday evening June 11, 2005, Jack died peacefully at his home in Upper Brookville, Long Island, New York. He was 86 years old, and fought valiantly with Alzheimer's disease, macular degeneration, and cancer. Beloved and devoted husband of Marion Duke Johnson, his wif
 JOHNSON--Samuel F., 86, retired professor of Columbia University, passed away at St. Luke's Hospital on June 11. He was a Harvard Ph.D. and a graduate of Haverford College. He is survived by his sister, Virginia Hannum of Philadelphia, and his executor friend, Don Blair of New York. Memoria
 WHITNEY--David. We mourn the loss of our former Board member and long - time neighbor, David Whitney. Our sympathy to his family. Toni Ausnit Flynn, President Ted Voss, Vice President Museum Tower Condominium, The Board of Managers       
 Robert F. Maguire Jr., the chief pilot of Operation Magic Carpet, which evacuated more than 40,000 Jewish refugees from Yemen to the newly created state of Israel between late 1948 and early 1950, died on June 10 at his home in Northridge, Calif. He was 94. He died of natural causes
 Dr. William J. Thaler, an experimental physicist of the Cold War era who helped design an early electronic surveillance system for the Navy that was used to monitor missile tests and satellite launchings worldwide, died on June 5 at his home in Centreville, Va. He was 79. The cause 
 Morris Cohen, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who helped to transform the field of metallurgy into the modern discipline of materials science and engineering, died on May 27 at his home in Swampscott, Mass. He was 93. He had been suffering from heart problem
 BRONSTEIN--Murray, died June 12, 2005. Beloved and loving father of David. Cherished and devoted brother of twin sister Anne. Proud Founder of Murray Bronstein Associates, Personnel Agency. He was a vital life force. His passions included chess, Shakespeare, history, theatre and travel. He 
 BRUCKNER--Jack L. On Saturday evening June 11, 2005, Jack died peacefully at his home in Upper Brookville, Long Island, New York. He was 86 years old, and fought valiantly with Alzheimer's disease, macular degeneration, and cancer. Beloved and devoted husband of Marion Duke Johnson, his wif
 CIRKER--Stanley S. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center family is deeply saddened by the passing of cherished benefactor and dear friend Stanley S. Cirker Esq., Senior Vice Chairman, Board of Directors. His gracious, affable and distinguished presence as well as his devoted dedication to th
 COOPER -- Norman. The members of the Department of Pathology of the NYU School of Medicine mourn the loss of Norman Cooper, M.D. After graduating from Columbia University and the University of Rochester Medical School, Norman came to the Department in 1944 as a resident and stayed on as a f
 EVANS--Albert W., June 16, 2005. He will be very much missed. Memorial service 2PM, Thursday, June 23rd, at Green - Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.       
 GORDON -- Kermit. We mourn and our hearts ache at your passing. Knowing that you are no longer suffering is our only solace. Your legacy lives on in your wonderful wife, your children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Whoever you touched has had their lives brightened ever so much. Ma
 GREBLE--Thomas C. A respected attorney and partner at Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner LLP, died Thursday, June 16, 2005 at Westchester Medical Center. He was 55 years old. He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Diane Joan Greble, his daughters, Mrs. Emily Greble Balic and Julia Gr
 KNOERR--Wilfred H., 89, of Siesta Key, Sarasota, FL on May 23, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy (nee Pfeiffer). Brother of the late Eugene, George, Paul and Irene. Devoted father of Samantha Toogood and husband Richard of Stowe, VT and John W. and wife Carol of New York City. Born 
 KORMAN -- Harold. We mourn the loss of our esteemed past President who served our Credit Union with distinction, integrity and dedication. He passed away at his home in Laguna Woods, CA on June 11, 2005 following a brief illness. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife Mildred
 ROBINSON--Richard G. 83, died peacefully at home on June 11 after a remarkable fight against pancreatic cancer. Adored husband of Phyllis Kenner Robinson for 61 years. Cherished father of Nancy Thompson, son of Robert and Jennie Tashman Robinson, brother of the late Riva Robinson and Dr. Ar
 ROWAN--David. A founder of the National Ski Areas Association, member US National Ski Hall of Fame, recipient of the International Skiing History Association's Lifetime Achievement Award, and onetime Aide-de-Camp to General ''Chesty'' Puller in the Korean War: died in Roxbury, CT, on June 8
 SOEKAWA--Ichiro, 72, born in Inada, Japan, passed peacefully on January 31st, 2005 in Raleigh, NC. A longtime New Yorker, avid Yankees fan and owner of Akasaka Restaurant, Ichiro is survived by his children, Michael, Sumiko, Emiko and their mother, Frances, and by his mother, brother and si
 WALLACE--Bert H. (Berthold Wallach). Of heart failure on June 11, at his home in Riverdale. Born to Baruch & Recha Wallach in Flieden, Germany, on July 15, 1915, Mr. Wallace fled Germany in April, 1939, settling first in Queens and then in Uniondale, LI. Beloved husband of Carol Lomnitz Wal
 WELLMAN--Richard Vance, 82, a nationally recognized figure in the field of probate law who helped transform the legal landscape in the area of trusts and estates, died on June 3, 2005 in Athens, GA. Robert Cotton Alston Professor of Law at the University of Georgia Law School from 1974 to 1
 The Rev. Paul Abrecht, an ethicist who, under the auspices of the World Council of Churches, took a leading role in formulating mainstream Christianity's response to modern ethical challenges for more than three decades, died on May 21 at his home in Geneva. He was 87. His death was
 J.J. Pickle, a protégé of Lyndon B. Johnson who served in the House of Representatives for 31 years and was a zealous protector of Social Security, died on Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 91. The causes were prostate cancer and lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Pi
 John V. Thornton, a former vice chairman of Consolidated Edison, died on June 11 in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, John. . Mr. Thornton worked at Consolidated Edison for 20 years, starting as an assistant general
 MARKS--Harold. We have been cousins for 84 years, and are all saddened by his passing. He was truly a man among men with kindness, generosity and business advice that helped myself and countless others throughout life. To say that he will be missed is a tremendous understatement. Cousin Alv
 RYGER--Simon. Simon (Isidor) Ryger of Belle Harbor, NY, died on June 18, 2005. Beloved and devoted husband of Frances, his lifelong love of 53 years, loving and caring father of Jack and Risa, father-in-law of Roni and Peter, and adoring grandfather to Carlin, Maris and Haley. A Holocaust s
 WERNER--Warren A. A longtime resident of Great Neck for over 55 years. He conducted the summer services as Cantor for Temple Emanuel for 34 years, was the chairman of volunteers for the Emergency Ward at North Shore University Hospital, Lieutenant of Auxillary Police for the Sixth Precinct,
 Cardinal Jaime L. Sin, the powerful Roman Catholic archbishop of Manila who used his influence to champion the rights of the poor and rally the widespread popular resistance that brought down the presidencies of Ferdinand E. Marcos and Joseph Estrada, died early today in Manila, a spokesman
 James Weinstein, the founder and longtime editor and publisher of the progressive magazine In These Times, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer, the magazine's editors announced. Published twice a month, In These Times is concerned, 
 John Lawrence Collins Jr., a journalist and author known as Larry Collins, whose best-selling books included ''Is Paris Burning?'' and ''O Jerusalem!,'' died yesterday in Fréjus in the south of France. He was 75 and lived in Ramatuelle, on the Riviera. The cause was a brain hemorrh
 BELLAMENTE--Robert. Of Flanders, NJ on June 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Barbara (Callahan); father of Victoria Wright of Littleton, CO; Robert S. of Morristown, NJ; Michael A. of Barcelona Spain, and John J. of Flanders, NJ; grandfather of Kyrianna Wright and Maximilian Bellamente. He is a
 BRENNER--Howard, 83, passed away on June 20. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Jill Browne and Janet Brenner Maltby. Beloved ''Pop-Pop'' to his grandchildren Jacob, Timothy, Matthew, and Molly Browne, and Jordan, Emily and Charlotte Maltby. Son of the late Lesser and Jeanette Bren
 HARBUS--Meyer, on June 15, 2005. Loving husband of Sarah, father of Richard, Lorna, and Fredric, grandfather and great-grandfather. He was a kind, gentle and compassionate man who cherished his family and his friends. A CPA, he was always fair and considerate to his clients. A cultured man,
 REED--J.D. Of Princeton, NJ. October 7, 1940-June 15, 2005. Poet, novelist and journalist, J.D. Reed died of a heart attack at his home in Princeton, NJ, on June 15, at 64 years old. Mr. Reed who won a Guggenheim Award for his book of poetry, Expressways, in 1970, taught creative writing at
 WALLENSTEIN -- Maxwell, on June 19, 2005. Loving husband of Rosalie and the late Pearl, father of Barry and David, grandfather of Daniel, Jessica, Marc, and Matthew. He was a strong, loving and dynamic person, a major presence in the wholesale meat industry--founder and owner of White House
 WERNER--Warren A. A longtime resident of Great Neck for over 55 years. He conducted the summer services as Cantor for Temple Emanuel for 34 years, was the chairman of volunteers for the Emergency Ward at North Shore University Hospital, Lieutenant of Auxillary Police for the Sixth Precinct,
 WIGDER--Bernard L., Dr. 87 years young, passed into Gan Eden, Eruv Succos, June 12, 2005. He is survived by his beloved and loving wife, Harriet of 37 years. A dear and compassionate man, struggled many years with Alzheimers Disease. The beauty of his soul and his commitment to Jewish commu
 WU--Chun Woo. On June 16, 2005, age 66. Husband of Oi Chai. Father of Cheryl, Timothy and Michael. Grandfather of Kenny, Cosette, Katie, Jenna and Ryan. Mr. Wu, born in Wenzhou, China, was a master chef and successful businessman. He was awarded the honor to prepare a culinary feast for Que
 Ray Budde, an education professor who defined the term charter school and stated the ideas that led to a nationwide school reform movement, died on June 11 in Springfield, Mass. He was 82. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott. He had lung cancer and non-Hodgkin's l
 Cyril I. Nelson, a prominent collector of American folk art who donated about 150 pieces to the permanent collection of the American Folk Art Museum in New York, died on June 1 in Fairfield, Conn. He was 78. A longtime resident of New York City, Mr. Nelson had lived in Fairfield for the las
 Jack S. Kilby, an electrical engineer whose invention of the integrated circuit gave rise to the information age and heralded an explosion of consumer electronics products in the last 50 years, from personal computers to cellphones, died Monday in Dallas. He was 81. His death, after
 BARLACH--Bernard. At age 87, on June 21. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Born in a small village in Poland, Bernie became a successful business owner, distinguished veteran, and renowned cantor in his adopted homeland. Shiva: June 22-28, 861 Ave. C, Bayonne, NJ. 
 BEATON--William (Bill), 72, passed away in Fort Lauderdale, FL, on June 20, 2005. A native New Yorker, a graduate of FIT, noted children's wear designer. He also consulted with Associated Merchandising Corp (AMC). Retired to East Hampton in 1985 and moved to Fort Lauderdale in 1989 where he
 CAVERS -- John Arthur, passed away on June 15, 2005. He was a wonderful father and husband and a brilliant teacher who faithfully served his community and country. He was a Renaissance man and a citizen of the world. He fought in World War II. Afterwards, he taught Latin, French, English, a
 HARNICK--William, 91, died on June 20, 2005. Loving husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Andrea Tuchman, Harvey Harnick, and the late Felice Schwartz. Cherished grandfather of Hal and Jeffrey Schwartz, Stacey and Jason Harnick, and Felicia and Jared Tuchman. Major presence in the floral ind
 JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Passed away on June 21, 2005. Beloved wife and husband. Devoted parents of Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson. Cherished grandparents of Erik and Jackie Gershwind and Stacey and Michael Bennett and Joshua Jacobson. Loving great grandpa
 MEREDITH--Ellis E. (Bud). The Board of Directors, Officers and associates of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation mourn the passing of Bud Meredith, Director Emeritus, who served as a Director of our company for 13 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife, Alice, and their c
 PASHCOW--Arthur. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Devoted father of Joel. Adored grandfather of Stacey (Paul) Gardi and Lauren Pashcow. Great grandfather of Alexandra. Cherished brother of Milton, Myron, and the late Bernard Pashcow. Services Wednesday, June 22, 2005, 11 A.M. at the River
 TUTTLE--Ralph N. Age 64, of East Windsor, New Jersey, passed away Monday in John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison. Born in Penn Yan, New York, he grew up in Harrison, New Jersey. He was a U.S. Army veteran, having served in Germany as a military policeman. Mr. Tuttle was a previous emplo
 WINSTON--Julian (Winnie). On June 12, 2005, in Wellington, New Zealand, at age 64. Homeopath, folk musician, industrial designer, teacher and writer. His unique presence will be missed by family, friends, and students. Survived by wife Gwyneth Evans of Wellington, New Zealand, and her child
 ZANKEL--Bradley. On June 17, 2005, at the age of 20, after a brave battle against brain cancer. Bradley, a resident of Port Washington, New York, was a student at Princeton University. He is survived by his mother Lori, his father Jeffrey, his sister Julie, and his grandparents, Florence an
 Billy Bauer, one of the first modern jazz guitarists and later a renowned guitar teacher, died on Friday in Melville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Albertson, N.Y. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter, Pamela. Mr. Bauer first gained national attention in
 Dr. Charles D. Keeling, who set off current concerns of global warming through measurements beginning in the 1950's that showed steadily rising amounts of carbon dioxide in the air, died Monday at his home in Montana. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack after a short hike, said 
 Dr. Eugene Stead Jr., a medical educator who created the country's first program for physician assistants at Duke University in the 1960's, died on June 12 at his home in Bullock, N.C. He was 96. He died in his sleep, said his son, William Stead. In the 1960's, as chairman o
 DOLAN--Patrick A. On June 22, 2005 at age 70. Beloved husband of Andra Macdonald. Loving father of Patrick, Stephen and Mark. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth, Rebecca, Brendan, Kieran, Catherine and Patrick. Dear brother of Mary and Ann and the late Fr. Martin and Fr. Jackie. Also survived 
 EHRENREICH--Robert. On June 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Sally. Devoted father of William. We will miss you and love you forever. Donations in Rob's memory may be made to cancer research and advocacy. Services Thursday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. E
 LAZARUS--Theodore, age 81, of Boca Raton, FL on June 21, 2005. President of Lazarus Jewelers, Inc., NYC. Survived by son Andrew and his wife Donna of Princeton, NJ. Also survived by grandchildren Alexis and Matthew, his sister and brother-in-law Phyllis and Herbert Kane and companion Brenda
 PASHCOW--Arthur. Our heartfelt sympathies to our good friend Joel, and his family on the passing of his beloved father Arthur. Nancy and Donny PASHCOW--Arthur. In loving memory of a true gentleman. Our heartfelt condolences to Joel, a very devoted son. Hedy & Arthur Goldberg       
 WIMPFHEIMER--Ernst. 89, died June 22. Beloved husband of the late Putti, loving father of Paul, Charles and Lee. Devoted brother of Felix and Kurt. Adoring grandfather and great-grandfather. A gentle man, remarkable in his charity and integrity. Funeral on Friday, at 1 PM, Plaza Memorial Ch
 ZANKEL--Bradley. On June 17, 2005, at the age of 20, after a brave battle against brain cancer. Bradley, a resident of Port Washington, New York, was a student at Princeton University. He is survived by his mother Lori, his father Jeffrey, his sister Julie, and his grandparents, Florence an
 ZWECKER--Irving. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Friar Irving Zwecker. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean       
 Gen. Bernard A. Schriever, who oversaw the Air Force's development of intercontinental ballistic missiles and other rockets that ushered in the space age and escalated the weapons race with the Soviet Union, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 94. The cause was complica
 Louis R. Lucas, a Tennessee lawyer who came to prominence in the drawn-out battles over school desegregation and busing resulting from the Brown v. Board of Education decision of 1954, died on Monday in Memphis. He was 70 and lived in suburban Germantown, Tenn. He died after a long 
 AVEDON--Harvey, 97, of NYC, died June 21. Beloved husband of the late Drusilla and a great friend to many in the city and on Fire Island. Harvey was a talented jewelry designer and businessman who lived life to the fullest and gave enjoyment and knowledge to all who knew him. Harvey will be
 BATES--James S. Longtime resident of Vero Beach, FL. and veteran oil industry executive, died June 18 at the Hospice House in Vero Beach following a prolonged illness. He was 79. Mr. Bates was born in Floral Park, NY on March 26, 1926. He graduated from New York University and went on to ob
 DOLAN--Patrick A. On June 22, 2005 at age 70. Beloved husband of Andra Macdonald. Loving father of Patrick, Stephen and Mark. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth, Rebecca, Brendan, Kieran, Catherine and Patrick. Dear brother of Mary and Ann and the late Fr. Martin and Fr. Jackie. Also survived 
 JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Passed away on June 21, 2005. Beloved wife and husband. Devoted parents of Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson. Cherished grandparents of Erik and Jackie Gershwind and Stacey and Michael Bennett and Joshua Jacobson. Loving great grandpa
 WIMPFHEIMER--Ernst. We offer our Kos Tanchumim to the entire Wimpfheimer family. A Silver Founder of the Medical Center together with his late wife Putti, Ernst was a generous, modest man whose open hand epitomized the highest standards of Jewish tradition. May the family be comforted among
 CITRIN--Estelle. Mom, today was a special day in the life of both of your grandchildren. Ethan, who it seems was born just yesterday, graduated into high school. His intelligence, his warmth and his love of life are proof positive that he is yours. Hunter moved up to sixth grade with your h
 Chris Griffin, a trumpet player who was heard at Carnegie Hall with Benny Goodman and in millions of living rooms with the orchestras on the Ed Sullivan and Jackie Gleason shows, died on June 18 in Danbury, Conn. He was 89 and lived in Southbury, Conn. The cause was melanoma, said h
 Gen. Louis H. Wilson Jr., who received the Medal of Honor in World War II and served as commandant of the Marine Corps in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday at his home in Homewood, Ala., a Birmingham suburb. He was 85. His death was announced by the corps. He had a d
 Nahum Sarna, a biblical scholar who did notable translations of Scripture for modern readers, notably his work on the Jewish Publication Society's ''Torah (New Translation),'' died on Thursday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82, and a former resident of Newton, Mass. The deat
 FINK--Herbert A., DDS, on June 22nd, 2005. Husband of Barbara Hyde Fink. Loving father of Ellen and Steven Samnick, Mark and Beth Fink. Cherished grandfather of Kevin, Samantha & Melisa. Donations can be made in his memory to Capital Hospice, Halquist Inpatient Center, 4715 North 15 Street,
 GREEN--Jacob (Jack), 92, died June 24th at his home in Verona, NJ. Longtime resident of Beechhurst, Queens and Singer Island, FL. Beloved husband of Ann for 59 years. Adored father of Barbara Klausner (Cal), Debbie Taffet (Mark) and Howard Green (Joanne). Cherished Pop-Pop of Hannah, Sam, E
 SMITH--Paul Bennett. Cherished and beloved husband of Margie. Devoted and adored father of Robin, Brian and his fiancee Rachael Green. Son of the late Eve and Murray Smith. Brother of Carole and Howard Smith and Judy and Larry Greenberg. Loved like a son by Molly and the late Milton Greenbe
 John Sahag, a Manhattan hairstylist for many celebrities with a dry-cut method that challenged the old routine of shampoo, rinse and repeat at upscale beauty salons, died on June 15 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 53. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released 
 BATES--James S. Longtime resident of Vero Beach, FL. and veteran oil industry executive, died June 18 at the Hospice House in Vero Beach following a prolonged illness. He was 79. Mr. Bates was born in Floral Park, NY on March 26, 1926. He graduated from New York University and went on to ob
 BROWN--Prof. William Lefferts IV, of the Media Arts Dept., Long Island U. Brooklyn, drowned June 7 in Conn. Preceded in death by his wife, Andrea Gibbs Brown, who passed away eight months ago of cancer. Prof. Brown was a respected electronic music composer, sound designer and installation a
 CHU--Ke-Chieh. Known to his friends as Jack and retired president of Eastern International Company. Died on June 20. Prior to Eastern, Mr. Chu was a professor of Engineering and Mathematics. He was also an electronic research engineer at Harvard. Mr. Chu is survived by his wife, Lily, of Ne
 COHEN--Isidore. The Musicians, Board and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of a dear and generous friend, devoted mentor of young musicians at Marlboro for four decades, and an invaluable member of three of the 20th century's most important chamber music ensembl
 ELFERS--William. Of Wellesley, MA. Venture Capital Pioneer and founder of the national venture capital firm, Greylock, died at 87 in Hyannis, MA on June 21, 2005. He is lovingly survived by his wife, Ann Rice Elfers of Wellesley, MA, with whom he shared 60 years of marriage, his children, W
 FINK--Herbert A., DDS, on June 22nd, 2005. Husband of Barbara Hyde Fink. Loving father of Ellen and Steven Samnick, Mark and Beth Fink. Cherished grandfather of Kevin, Samantha & Melisa. Donations can be made in his memory to Capital Hospice, Halquist Inpatient Center, 4715 North 15 Street,
 GOPEN--Jerome. 74, passed away on June 22, 2005. A beloved husband of 52 years, father and grandfather who was an inspiration to all of us. He will be deeply missed.       
 KENYON--Michael. 73, on May 29. Unmatched for wit, charm, assemblying of words, selflessness and sartorial daring. He will be so missed by his daughters Lucy, Kate, and Polly, and by his longtime companion, Victoria Hartman.       
 McELROY--D. Keith, MD. Orthopaedist of CPMC, June 23 at 90 from a stroke. He invented the Bilateral/Lateral Spinal Fusion operation and instruments and Injection Therapy procedure. Survived by Muriel Adamy of Harrison, NY, and sons, Frank and Don of Marblehead, MA, and grandchildren, Ian, M
 NEE -- David Dawes II. (1976-2005.) David Nee, a much loved member of the class of 2005 from Fordham University School of Law, and a graduate of Princeton University (class of 1998) and The Loomis Chaffee School (class of 1994), died of his own hand on Wednesday, June 22, in New York City. 
 OLIVER--Reginald Back. 66, wine grower and businessman, died at his home in St. Helena, CA, on June 24. The cause of death was melanoma. His survivors are his wife of 41 years, Marie Mason, daughter Lily, son Jack, granddaughter Clementine Olivia Berlin and grandson Reginald Ewan Oliver, al
 PETERSON--Edwin B. of Teaneck, NJ, born May 6, 1916 in Brooklyn, NY died Saturday June 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Audrey (nee Gurney) for 52 years. Devoted father of Lee Peterson and James Jonasson and the late Toni Randzin. Mr. Peterson was a Wall Street Executive for 50 years, Secretary
 ROSE--David J., M.D. 82, died on June 21, 2005 at his home in Princeton, NJ. From complications of Melanoma. He leaves his wife of 57 years, Edith Sprung (Camp Orinsekwa) and children Elizabeth Stanton and husband Bruce, Hanover, NH, Lawrence Rose and wife Ona, Pennington, NJ, Michael Rose,
 SARNA--Nahum. The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Dr. Nahum Sarna, distinguished Bible scholar and translator, author of two JPS Torah Commentaries, JPS Scholar of Distinction. For almost four decades, Dr. Sarna inspired colleagues, students and learning comm
 SCHWARTZ--George Joel. Of Westbury, on June 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Sybil. Devoted brother-in-law to Irma. Loving father to Michael and Seth. Adored grandfather of David, Marc, Drew and Felicia. Much loved father-in-law of Susan and Carolyn. A good friend to many, a talented artist and
 SMITH--Paul Bennett. Cherished and beloved husband of Margie. Devoted and adored father of Robin, Brian and his fiancee Rachael Green. Son of the late Eve and Murray Smith. Brother of Carole and Howard Smith and Judy and Larry Greenberg. Loved like a son by Molly and the late Milton Greenbe
 John Fiedler, who played character roles in celebrated dramas on Broadway and in Hollywood but gained lasting fame among young audiences as the voice of Piglet in Walt Disney's Winnie-the-Pooh films, died on Saturday. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his brother, James.        
 Donald D. Buchanan, a mechanical engineer and NASA official who played a leading role in designing the powerful ''crawler'' vehicles that carried rockets to their launching sites in the 1960's and 70's and that became indispensable in later space missions, died on June 13 at his home in Tit
 Isidore Cohen, a violinist who, as a member of the Juilliard String Quartet and the Beaux Arts Trio, was an important chamber music performer and a teacher, died on Thursday in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Cohen's death was announced by Frank Salomon, an administ
 KUSSOY--Eric George. Of Manhattan. Suddenly on June 25, 2005 at age 37. Beloved son of Doris and Paul Kussoy. Loving brother of Jayne and Steve Gordon, Andrew Kussoy and Patricia Kussoy who predeceased him last year. Devoted uncle of Rebecca and Rachel Gordon. Eric was a partner in the Labo
 LUDWIG--Louis L., DDS. Retired, Jackson Heights, N.Y. clinical professor at NYU; died June 26, 2005 following a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Hildegard, their children Mark and Vicky and four grandchildren. Service will be private.       
 MENDEL--Werner, born on November 9, 1934 in Mainz, Germany and died June 26, 2005 in Harris, NY. A dynamic man who pursued his passion, refused to take the easy route and inspired others to follow their dreams and heart. Husband of Stephanie Paradise; father of Susan, William, Richard and B
 MORGAN--Andrew Ross was born July 25, 1979, in Austin, Texas. He died June 22, 2005, in New York City. Beloved son of Clayton and Cynthia Morgan, of Austin; adored brother of Lillian and Elliot Morgan. Some people wear their spirit on the outside. When you meet them your own light shines br
 NELSON--Cyril Irwin. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with profound sorrow the death of their friend and colleague Cyril Irwin Nelson. A Trustee since 1974 and recently elected Trustee Emeritus, Cy will be remembered for his quiet dignity, 
 PARRELLA--John A. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, John Parrella. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, President Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy.       
 PEARSON--Samuel Malcolm. 92, a founding father of the Dreyfus Fund, passed away on June 27, 2005. His survivors are his sons Matthew and Roger, daughter-in-laws Ronnie and Jenny, and grandchildren Danny, Ryan, Michael, Olivia, Adam and Ian. A graveside service will be held at 1PM on June 29
 Thomas Gilmore Pownall, the former chief executive of Martin Marietta who warded off a hostile takeover bid in the early 1980's with a novel strategy that came to be called the Pac-Man defense, died near his home in Potomac, Md., on Friday. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, his fa
 BAUMGOLD--Theodore. Age 91. Died in his home in Stamford, CT. He served in the Jedberg Group of the OSS during W.W. II. He was a businessman and was also driven to play, lecture, collect, read, discuss and conduct classical music. Ted lectured on music and conducted an orchestra at the 92nd
 BOETH--Christopher, 42, died on June 27, 2005 on Cape Cod. He was the son of Margaret Boeth of NY. Services 10AM Thursday, Church of the Holy Spirit, Orlean. Contributions may be sent to Marlboro College in Vermont.       
 COHEN--Isidore. Manhattan School of Music is deeply saddened by the loss of Isidore Cohen. A renowned member of our chamber music faculty since 1993, his wisdom, vigor, kindness and compassion enriched the lives of our many students privileged to work with him. His incomparable musical know
 CRESPI -- Dr. Marcantonio, only son of Vivian Crespi and the late Count Marco-Fabio Crespi. Died quietly in his sleep on June 27 as the result of viral encephalitis. Burial will be in Switzerland where he was born.       
 KENYON--Michael. 73, on May 29. Unmatched for wit, charm, assemblying of words, selflessness and sartorial daring. He will be so missed by his daughters Lucy, Kate, and Polly, and by his longtime companion, Victoria Hartman.       
 KLINE--Irving, a longtime Yonkers resident died Monday, June 27, 2005 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, N.Y. He was 92. He was born on December 31, 1912 in New York City to Morris Kline and Rebecca Norr Kline. He was educated at Evander Childs High School (1930) in New York and 
 LEVINE--L. Harvey, age 75, of Port Washington, NY, died Tuesday, June 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Marcia, adored father of Susan and Jim, Roger and Betsy and Robin and David. Exuberant grandfather of Sam, Jake, Nina, Eric, Zach, Eddie and Sarah. Loving brother of Rosalind Miller and Muriel
 MENDEL--Werner, born on November 9, 1934 in Mainz, Germany and died June 26, 2005 in Harris, NY. A dynamic man who pursued his passion, refused to take the easy route and inspired others to follow their dreams and heart. Husband of Stephanie Paradise; father of Susan, William, Richard and B
 MORRIS--David, 65, Died June 20 at his home in Essex, CT. Son of Perry and Evelyn Morris of Great Neck, New York and brother of Stephen Morris of Santa Barbara, CA. Devoted surrogate grandfather of Matthew Michael Fabiani. Retired soldier and policeman, member of Troop F, 196th Light Infant
 PEZZO--Raymond M., of Poughkeepsie, NY, 74, accomplished lawyer, author, U.S. Air Force instructor and pilot, passed away on June 20, 2005. A graduate from the University of Buffalo with a Master of Law from New York University, he won the Northeastern Inter-Collegiate All Events Bowling Ch
 RYDING -- William Welling ton, 81, died at his residence in Stone Ridge, New York, on June 27. Scholar, Francophile, caring friend, gentle father, he will be sorely missed.       
 TAGER--Sidney on June 27, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy, loving father of Joshua, Nina, Seth and Alexandra. Dear brother of Milton and Florence; adoring grandfather of Samuel, Sophia, Elias, Nathaniel, Dalia and Phineas. He will be missed. Service Thursday 2PM at ''The Riverside
 Shelby Foote, the historian whose incisive, seasoned commentary -- delivered in a drawl so mellifluous that one critic called it ''molasses over hominy'' -- evoked the Civil War for millions in the 11-hour PBS documentary in 1990, died on Monday at a Memphis hospital He was 88 and lived in 
 Al Loving, a prominent abstract painter and collage artist whose work explored the ways color, space, line and form play out in vibrant counterpoint, died on June 21 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Kerhonkson, N.Y. The cause was complic
 GATTENGO--Sam. June 17, 2005, two weeks shy of age 85. Irascible and charming, known as ''Kid Enthusiasm'' when he began his stellar career with the Fuller Brush Co. in 1939. Infuriating, obtuse, brilliant, astute. Always in a hurry; a great dancer; lifelong Torah scholar; devoted son and b
 GRAY--Stuart. Beloved husband for 52 years to Lucille; adored dad of Shelley, Lynn and Marcy; cherished Papa to Katie, Jake, Ella and Tal; loved father-in-law to David and Itzik; treasured brother to Pat. A most special and gentle man. Memorial service 10:30 AM, July 1, small chapel at Cong
 LEVINE--Harvey. His fellow members of the Yale Class of 1951 note with sadness the passing of our dear friend, Harvey Levine. His intelligence, energy, high spirits and devotion to Yale will be long remembered. We send our heartfelt condolences to Marcia and his children to whom he has left
 PEZZO--Raymond M., of Poughkeepsie, NY, 74, accomplished lawyer, author, U.S. Air Force instructor and pilot, passed away on June 20, 2005. A graduate from the University of Buffalo with a Master of Law from New York University, he won the Northeastern Inter-Collegiate All Events Bowling Ch
 TAGER--Sidney on June 27, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy, loving father of Joshua, Nina, Seth and Alexandra. Dear brother of Milton and Florence; adoring grandfather of Samuel, Sophia, Elias, Nathaniel, Dalia and Phineas. He will be missed. Service Thursday 2PM at ''The Riverside
 WEINTRAUB -- Jack. We mourn the loss of Jack Weintraub, adored husband of the late Doris, devoted father of Judy Hodson and Rabbi Peter and Ellen Weintraub, cherished grandfather of Daniel and Michael Fadel, Rachel and Bertie Bregman, Tara and Justin Brass, David and Sara Weintraub, Joseph 
 Thomas D. Clark, a historian of the American frontier who was long the historian laureate of Kentucky, died on Tuesday in Lexington. He was 101. His death was announced by his family and by Gov. Ernie Fletcher, who noted that the Kentucky History Center would be renamed for Dr. Clar
