 Francisco Salveron, a Philippine-born Army orderly whose devotion to Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur in World War II gave him a front-row role in MacArthur's historic return to the Philippines, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Bladensburg, Md. He was 88. The cause was lung cancer, his famil
 CASO-Ralph G. Sr., The Honorable former Nassau County Executive (1971-1978) of Merrick, NY on August 31, 1998. Beloved husband of Grace (nee Milone). Devoted father of Ralph Jr. of Independent Group Home for Living, Nesconset, New York & Jolisa Sagstetter of Wantagh, NY. Devoted fatherin-la
 CICCOTELLI-Emil A. Retired Deputy Chief NYPD on August 30, 1998. Dearest husband of Lorraine (nee Reeber). Beloved father of Thomas E., Michael P., Emil A., Jr., James T., Peter M., Richard T. Ciccotelli and Jeanmarie A. Dool. Also survived by his 15 grandchildren and two brothers. Mass of 
 COHEN-Philip F. Founder of Oceana Publications. On August 29, 1998. Husband of Fay. Father of David Cohen, Anne Cohen, and Karen Schnabel. Visiting 11 am until noon prior to funeral at 12 noon, Wednesday, at Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue (Saw Mill Exit 17), Dobbs Ferry, NY.
 DeBARBIERI-James Edward. 80, of Pearl River, NY, and Shin Pond, ME, died on August 28, 1998, of cardiac arrest near his home in Maine. He is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, Marie Therese DeBarbieri, four children, James Edward Jr, of Brklyn, NY, John M., of Phila, PA, Mariann E.
 LINZER-Annette. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Elliot Linzer on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 PHILLIPS-Robert A. 87 of Lynbrook, LI. Peacefully in his sleep on August 31, 1998. Beloved husband of Regina. Loving father of Robert A., Jr. and Margaret M. Longto. Father-in-law of Chikee Phillips and Frank J. Longto. Dear grandfather of Brian and Kathleen Phillips. Survived by his twin b
 REQUENA-Jose Juan. We mourn the loss of Mr. Requena who passed away August 30, 1998 in Valencia, Spain. He was a devoted father of Jose Juan Sanchez. He played a significant role in the foundation and growth of CMA Inc. Consultory & Advisory. His legacy of a high level of integrity, honesty
 SCHENKER-Jack. On August 30, 1998 of North Palm Beach, FL, formerly of N.Y.C. A former partner of Newmark & Company Real Estate. Beloved husband of Leonore (Mandell). Loving father and stepfather of Susan Schulman, James and Richard Mandell and Margery Sugarman. Cherished grandfather of And
 STEPHENS-Roy A. The staff of the Department of Dermatology at North Shore Hospital regrets the loss of their esteemed colleague. He was a superb physician and teacher and a gifted dermatologist. He had a warm and friendly outlook on life and his sense of humor was legend. He will be sorely 
 SYMS MERNS-Stephen. With broken heart and loving affection, my sad goodbye. Lynn Syms SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of an esteemed businessman and member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Karen; father of Jilli
 Van BRUNT-Robert Ernest. On August 29, at age 87 in Columbia, SC. Formerly of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. and Sarasota, FL. Beloved husband of the late Gladys Strongin, father of Vincent of Columbia, SC and Peter of Chevy Chase, MD. Dear father-in-law of Marjorie J.; devoted grandfather of Edward 
 WILDERS-Monsignor James G. The trustees and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute (SCI) note with sorrow the death on Tuesday, August 25, 1998 of former Trustee, Msgr. James G. Wilders. Msgr. Wilders served the Institute with distinction from 1981 to 1993. He was actively involved in minis
 BRONSTEIN-Melvin, M.D. A unique man, so dearly missed by his wife and children. Remembered warmly by all who knew him. Know you'll be watching over Wendy's wedding. Your loving family.       
 Albert Bela Bauer, who oversaw the construction of public buildings in New York as city architect for 30 years and prompted Mayor Robert F. Wagner's 1965 executive order providing for the use of art to adorn them, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 99 and lived
 Charles T. Haskell, an environmentalist and adventurer who recreated perilous historic expeditions in South America and Africa with descendants of famous explorers, died on Aug. 18 at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C., near his family home. He was 55. The cause was cancer of the thy
 James Aaron Washington Jr., a retired District of Columbia judge and Howard University law dean who helped to formulate the Supreme Court case that resulted in the 1954 decision against school segregation, died on Saturday in his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83. Judge Washingto
 APONTE-John. The officers, members and teams of the Long Island Midweek Baseball League, mourn the untimely passing, on August 31, 1998, of Board Member and friend, John Aponte. His sportsmanship, competitiveness and sense of humor exemplified the ideals of our League and all of Men's Senio
 ATLAS-Theodore, 85. Of Bal Harbour, Florida. Formerly of New York City. Passed away Monday, August 31, 1998 following a stroke. Devoted husband of his late wife Lillian, devoted father of Robert of Rockville, MD., and David of Red Bank, NJ, sadly mourned by his grandchildren Lauren, Brian, 
 BEDELL-Sol. Died peacefully on August 31 in his 80th year. A native of New York City where he worked as a social worker, he relocated to Philmont, N.Y. in 1983 where he was active in the mental health movement. In 1991 he retired to Spring Hill, FL. to spend his years continuing his volunte
 CASO-Ralph G. Sr., The Honorable former Nassau County Executive (1971-1978) of Merrick, NY on August 31, 1998. Beloved husband of Grace (nee Milone). Devoted father of Ralph Jr. of Independent Group Home for Living, Nesconset, New York & Jolisa Sagstetter of Wantagh, NY. Devoted fatherin-la
 GREENBERG-Erwin. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Erwin Greenberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Florence, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary   
 GREENBERG-Marilyn. The Officers, Trustees, congregants and clergy of The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of Marilyn Greenberg, beloved wife of Rabbi Emeritus David Greenberg, and mother of Rachel, Ruth, Ethan, Adam and Susannah. We extend deepest condolences to Rabbi Greenbe
 HEILBRUN-Joseph W. Of Boca Raton, FL. formerly of N.Y.C. passed away August 30, 1998. He is survived by his children Nanette (Robert) Saraga and Michele Heilbrun and grandchildren Brittany and Andrew Saraga. Funeral service will be 12 noon Wednesday, September 2, 1998 at ''The Riverside'', 
 KAIN-Arthur B. Age 84, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Lynbrook, NY. Beloved husband of Esther for 60 years. Brother of Norman, devoted father of Stephen, Karen and Steven Bachmann, Janet and Edward Greenberg, adored grandfather of Seth Kain, Jill Karp, Jennifer Sweetwood, Michael Bachmann, 
 KAUFMAN-Edward James. Practicing attorney since 1940; served in the U.S. Army as a Second Lieutenant in World War II. Cherished husband of Charlene for 42 years. Survived by his utmost dedicated children, Cindy and Larry Kohn and Jill and Ralph Betesh. Adored by his precious grandchildren, 
 LISMAN-Jack V. M.D. Age 81. Died on August 30, 1998. Survived by his wife of 54 years Sylvia; children Richard and Lee Lisman, Jane and Robert J. Katz; sister Leona Rothstein; four grandchildren, Hilary, Bogert, Cyrena L. Fink and James and Emily Katz, and great-granddaughter Brigitte J. Fi
 MILLARD - Jerome. Beloved brother and brother-in-law. A sweet, kind, smart man, always full of humor, liked and respected by all who knew him. We will miss him and remember him lovingly. Walter and Eda Millard Marion and Herb Edelstein MILLARD-Jerome. Past-Pres. of the Zalmon Cohen 
 NEWBURGER-Frank L., Jr., 89 who resided in Elkins Park, PA, died on Sunday after a long illness. Mr. Newburger was a Partner of Newburger, Loeb & Company, Newburger & Company, and a Senior Vice President and Director of Advest Group, Inc. Mr. Newburger was President of the Philadelphia Stoc
 SCHENKER-Jack. The Partners of Newmark & Company, Real Estate, Inc, mourn the passing of our former Partner, Jack Schenker. Jack was a true gentleman and a loyal an trusted partner, and will be missed by all of us. Our condolences go out to his wife, Lee, his daughter, Susan, his grandchild
 SCHWARTZ-Albert. On September 1, 1998. Devoted husband to the late Jyle who was his love and companion for over 65 years. Loving and adoring father to Jack and Ellen, Toby Maranga, Louis and Jane. Proud grandfather to Lauren and Michael Lynfield, Randi and Seth Salwen, Lee and Joann Stahl, 
 STEPHENS-Roy, M.D. We are saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague whose devotion to, and leadership of our society were an inspiration to all. Roy's boundless energy, enthusiasm and humor were greatly valued by all his colleagues and patients. We will sorely miss our frien
 SYMS MERNS-Stephen. ''Gone is the joy of our hearts, our dancing has turned into mourning'' (Lamentations 5:15). Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Syms Merns, son of cherished members of our extended family, Sy Syms and Ruth Merns. We
 WAITMAN-Gerald. The leadership and staff of Israel Bonds extend its heartfelt condolences to Dr. Albert Waitman and his wife, Batsheva Waitman, Chairman of our New York Woman's Division, on the untimely death of his beloved brother Gerald. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Z
 WISE-Gordon James. On August 31, 1998. Loving husband of Barbara Wise. Father of Janet Lang, Margaret Auer, Diana Reock, Andrea Reed, Evelyn Auer. Stepfather of Laura Drons, Betsy Whitmore & Peter Whitmore. Brother of Winifred Cort, Janet Renz and Marion Wise. Grandfather of fifteen. A memo
 Livingston Day (Pete) Watrous, a career diplomat who specialized in Latin America, died yesterday at his home in Nantucket, Mass. He was 82. Mr. Watrous joined the Foreign Service in 1940, after having graduated from Princeton and then Columbia University, with an advanced degree in
 Ralph G. Caso, who during his eight years as Nassau County Executive in the 1970's led efforts to build housing for the elderly, construct the Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum and expand the county park system, died on Monday. He was 80. Mr. Caso, who had a history of heart 
 Allen Drury, the quintessential Washington novelist and author of ''Advise and Consent,'' died yesterday at St. Mary's Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 80 and lived in Tiburon, Calif. He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his nephew Kenneth Killiany. ''Advise and Consent
 Dr. Cary Middlecoff, who abandoned dentistry to play professional golf and won more prize money than Ben Hogan, Sam Snead or anyone else in the storied 1950's era, died Tuesday at the Allen Morgan Health Center in Memphis. He was 77. Dr. Cary Finn, his personal physician, said the c
 Viscount Rothermere, one of the last of Britain's great press barons, who helped transform The Daily Mail from a listless money loser to a highly successful newspaper aimed at Britain's growing middle class, died on Tuesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 73 and had a heart attac
 BERKOWITZ-Mendel. The Board of Directors, Officers and employees of PolyVision Corporation mourn the passing of Mr. Mendel Berkowitz, beloved father of our Board member, Mr. Ivan Berkowitz. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Berkowitz family. Steven S. Elbaum Chairman Joseph 
 DEUTSCH-George. In his 90th year, on September 1. Founder Deutsch Wicker. Beloved husband & best friend of Miriam for 64 years. Loving father of Karyn & Denny Michaels & Roger (Teddi). Caring grandfather of Danny, Michael, Beth & Jennifer Frient. Great grandfather of Tyler & Amanda Frient. 
 FRIEL-James Edward, 75. Died August 28, 1998. A Naples, Florida resident since 1983, coming from West Babylon, N.Y. Mr. Friel was a W.W. II veteran & worked for the New York Times as a dispatcher for 30 plus years. He is survived by his loving wife of 55 years, Beverly E. Friel, children Ca
 HEILBRUN-Joseph W. The officers and the entire membership of The Young Man's Philanthropic League mourn the loss of our esteemed member. For 35 years, Joey, supported our philanthropy with compassion and dignity. We extend our condolences to his family. Stephen Dietz, Chairman Stanley Banks
 KAIN-Arthur B. Age 84, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Lynbrook, NY. Beloved husband of Esther for 60 years. Brother of Norman, devoted father of Stephen, Karen and Steven Bachmann, Janet and Edward Greenberg, adored grandfather of Seth Kain, Jill Karp, Jennifer Sweetwood, Michael Bachmann, 
 KOESTLER-Anne Wehter. On September 2, 1998. Retired NYC school teacher, devotee of the opera and an avid theater goer. Devoted mother of Anthony and his wife, Laura. Loving grandmother of Lawrence and Craig. Family will receive friends Thursday and Friday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Andrett Funeral 
 LEVENBERG-Jack (Yanek). On September 1, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Kate. Loving father of Lora Rogers (Joseph) and Eileen Lichtenstein (Allan). Cherished grandfather, great grandfather and uncle. Dear brother-inlaw. We celebrate a life devoted to family and friends. He was a wonderfu
 LEVENTHAL-Gabe. Loving husband of 58 years of Muriel. Beloved father of Stuart and Bruce. Proud grandfather of Andrew, Caroline, Alexander, Nicole, and Scott. Devoted brother to Harold. He was deeply loved and will be greatly missed. Family graveside service Thursday, September 3, 1PM, Beth
 LISMAN-Jack V. M.D. Age 84. Died on August 30, 1998. Survived by his wife of 54 years Sylvia; children Richard and Lee Lisman, Jane and Robert J. Katz; sister Leona Rothstein; four grandchildren, Hilary, Bogert, Cyrena L. Fink and James and Emily Katz, and great-granddaughter Brigitte J. Fi
 STOLBOF-Bernard. Of Syosset, NY. Passed away on September 2, 1998, at age 70. He is survived by his wife Betty. Children Paul, Edward, Jesse and Daniel and four grandchildren. Retired from the House of Seagram where he worked for 35 years. He had a history of Parkinson Disease and died of p
 John Mortimer, 75, a former senior vice president of The New York Times for personnel and industrial relations, and his wife of 22 years, Hilda, 69, died in the Swissair plane crash on Wednesday. They lived in Stamford, Conn. They were on their way to a vacation in France, their fam
 Dr. Jonathan Max Mann, a pioneer in the international campaign against AIDS and a founder of a movement to link health issues with those of human rights, died on Wednesday night alongside his wife, Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, a vaccine scientist at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public
 BECK-Sherman G. Born in New York City, 1919. Graduate of Fieldston School and Carnegie Institute of Technology. Writer and director of documentary films. Survived by his daughter Linda, his former wife Jean, a brother Marcus and a sister Edith Kates. Services will be held at the First Unita
 DEUTSCH-Rabbi Sender. The World Council of Orthodox Jewish Communities, has suffered the profound loss of its Senior Vice President and dynamic leader, editor of ''Der Yid'', who inspired a generation of the Chassidic community with his teachings and writings. We join in the sorrow of his d
 GARBUS-Richard L. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and former colleague. Rick was wise beyond his years, respected by his colleagues and clients, a great husband, fatheralways optimistic. He was a trusted and loyal friend. We will miss him. Our thoughts are with Peggy and th
 LEVENTHAL-Gabriel. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Gabriel Leventhal, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 MANN-Jonathan and Mary Lou Clements. The public health community has been devastated by the loss of Drs. Jonathan Mann and Mary Lou Clements. They were extraordinary people who made untold contributions to people throughout the world in their work on AIDS, vaccine development and human righ
 MAZZALUPO - Vincent. Loving husband of Rosalie. Member of American Institute of Architects, he was an honorable man. Donations may be made in his memory to: Dicapo Opera Theater Vocal Competition Scholarship, 220 East 54 Street, New York 10022, Suite 11J, or Mazzalupo Architectural Fund, Pr
 SALTA-Romeo C. Aged 94, a pioneer of Northern Italian cuisine, passed away on August 31, 1998. Mr. Salta began his restaurant career in 1938 in Los Angeles, opening Chianti Restaurant, which became home to the most popular celebrities and business people. Following the shift of the entertai
 Pierce Gerety, a Harvard-educated lawyer who briefly considered the priesthood but instead devoted his life to helping refugees trapped in the maelstroms of war and disaster around the world, died on Wednesday night in the crash of the Swissair jetliner off Nova Scotia. He would have been 5
 Stephen Syms Merns, an apparel-chain executive and a philanthropist, died last Saturday during an outing to Columbia County in northern New York State. He was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack suffered while swimming ashore from a canoe, said Doug Meyer, senior
 Walter L. Morgan, a pioneer of finance who founded an early mutual fund that sailed through the booms and busts of seven decades, died on Wednesday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 100 and lived in Bryn Mawr. Mr. Morgan headed the Wellington Fund for 42 years until he r
 David Craig, a singing teacher whose students included many stars of film and stage musicals, died on  Aug. 28 at Tarzana Regional Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Studio City, Calif. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter, Miranda. Mr. Craig devel
 BELL-Patrick. All of us at Tourneau mourn the tragic loss of our beloved Patrick, aboard Swissair Flight 111. He was a treasured member of our family. We extend our deepest heartfelt condolences to his parents, brothers and to all who cherished him.       
 BOLSTERLI-Andrew H. Of Geneva, Switzerland & New York City. Beloved son of Hans and Barbara Bolsterli, tragically perished on SwissAir flight 111, Wednesday, September 2nd, at the age of 25. Andrew is also survived by his sister Marina, his grandparents Mr. and Mrs. John H. Slade and his re
 CREWDSON-Frank, M.D. A dedicated, kind, scholarly clinician and teacher, he will be deeply missed by his colleagues and friends. The faculty of The Psychoanalytic Institute and the Department of Psychiatry at New York Medical College extend their heartfelt condolences to his wife, Carol, da
 FEFFER-Solomon. The entire Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the passing of Solomon Feffer, a prominent scholar, revered teacher and beloved mentor who, through his dynamic career and magnetic personality, influenced generations of young Jews. Dr. Feffer founded the Reb
 FOSTER-Lawrence. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains, New York, records with sorrow the passing of our beloved Past President, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark A. Hershey, President       
 GERETY-Pierce. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Rescue Committee (IRC) are saddened by the tragic loss of Pierce on his flight to Geneva for the UN High Commission for Refugees. From 1980 to 1982 Pierce directed IRC's humanitarian work in Thailand for Cambodian refugees
 KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Phipps Houses mourns the tragic loss of a special friend and business partner. Nikos' passion and quiet generosity and his devotion to his family, work and community will be missed and long remembered. We extend our sympathy to his family, to his wife, Laurie, & their child
 MAZZALUPO-Vincent, on September 3, 1998. Loving husband of Rosalie. Member of American Institute of Architects, he was an honorable man. Donations may be made in his memory to: Dicapo Opera Theater Vocal Competition Scholarship, 220 East 54 Street, New York 10022, Suite 11J, or Mazzalupo Ar
 SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations extends its sincere condolences to our esteemed friend and supporter Sy Syms on the untimely passing of his beloved son. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mel S
 Dr. Roger Williams, a physician who pioneered the use of genetic data to identify people at risk for cholesterol-related heart disease, was among the 229 people who died in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 on Wednesday. He was 54. Dr. Williams lived in Salt Lake City and conducted h
 Dr. Robert J. Huebner, whose genius as a medical detective in pursuit of viruses and other agents of disease became a major force in the battle against cancer, died on Aug. 26 at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Coatesville, Pa. He was 84. Dr. Huebner, who had suffered 
 Stanley Seiden, an executive of the Nederlander theater organization, died on Aug. 27 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, company officials said. Mr. Seiden was president of the James
 Amory H. Bradford, a former vice president and general manager of The New York Times who was the chief negotiator for the Publishers Association in the bruising 114-day New York newspaper strike in 1962-63, died Friday at his home in Edisto Beach, S.C. He was 85. A Yale-educated Wal
 Deputy Chief Emil A. Ciccotelli, a longtime New York police commander who was an expert on organized crime and oversaw investigations of some sensational killings, died last Sunday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69. The cause apparently was a heart attack, said R
 BELL-Patrick. All of us at Tourneau mourn the tragic loss of our beloved Patrick, aboard Swissair Flight 111. He was a treasured member of our family. We extend our deepest heartfelt condolences to his parents, brothers and to all who cherished him.       
 BOLSTERLI-Andrew. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York extend our deepest sympathies to John and Marianne Slade, our most cherished friends, on the sudden and tragic loss of their grandson, Andrew Bolsterli. May the memories of this special person bring c
 DIBA-Mahmoud. The Board of Trustees, the Staff and friends of the Brooklyn Museum of Art mourn the tragic death of Mahmoud Diba, beloved husband of our good friend and colleague, curator Layla Diba. A member of the Asian Art Council, he was a longtime friend of the Brooklyn Museum of Art. W
 EDWARDS-Sidney G. 91, of Bronxville, NY, died September 4, 1998. He is survived by his beloved wife of 62 years, Juanita; his daughters, Melinda, Pamela Allara, and Roxanne; his son-in-law, Douglas Pirnie; his grandchildren, Mark and Ann Marie Allara, and his great-grandsons, Michael and Da
 FUHRMANN-William. Age 40. Son of Helga, brother to Andrew, uncle to Oliver and friend to so many. Billy was a wanderlust who loved so much of what the world had to offer. He was also the quintessential New Yorker. The complexity and possibilities of the city mirrored his own life. He moved 
 HAM-William Taylor, Jr., 89, of Richmond, died Wednesday, September 2, 1998. He is survived by his wife Jean Anderson Ham, two daughters, Christiana Ham Read, of New York, and Elsbeth Ham, of Richmond, a son-in-law Peter B. Read, Jr., two grandchildren, Rufus and Panthea Read. Mr. Ham was a
 MALLIN-Ralph. The people of Tishman Realty & Construction Co., Inc., deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Ralph Mallin, and his wife, Gilda, who were among the passengers on Swissair Flight 111. Ralph served as Mechanical/Electrical Engineer & Sr. Project Manager on several of T
 PALKOVITZ-Joseph, Dr. The National Board of Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the death of Dr. Joseph Palkovitz, beloved father of Judy and Harry Palkovitz of Pittsburgh, PA. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President Dr. Laura S. Schor, N
 PEDERSEN-Howard Norge. Artist, 80. Died on September 4 at his home in Quogue. Mr. Pedersen worked with many leading decorators of the day, among them, Bill Pahlman, creating murals for hotels and such department stores as B. Altman & Bonwit Teller and in homes in Cuba and the Dominican Repu
 REARDON-James E. Author of ''The Sweet LIfe of Jimmy Riley'' and ''Big Time Tommy Sloane'', died suddenly on August 17 in Deerfield Beach, FL at the age of 80. Formerly of NYC & Westport, CT. he was predeceased by his loving wife of 55 years Marjorie, and eldest son Michael. He is survived 
 WILLIAMS-C. Dickerman. Died peacefully in his 98th year, August 12, 1998 in Hamden, Connecticut. Devoted husband of the late Virginia Fain Williams, and father of Joan Williams Farr of NYC, Honor Williams Ishida of Tokyo, and Stephen F. Williams of Washington, D.C. Memorial service at 11 A.
 Romeo Salta, one of the first Manhattan restaurateurs to introduce fine Italian cuisine, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Salta's namesake restaurant, Romeo Salta, on West 56th Street, opened in 1953 and was one of the first in Manhattan to offer elegant  Nor
 Akira Kurosawa, who personified Japanese movies to most of the world and who grew into one of the handful of truly important directors that the cinema has produced, died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. He was 88. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kurosawa, the son
 Albert W. Johnson, a former Republican Congressman from Pennsylvania, died last Tuesday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 92 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Johnson, the son of Swedish immigrants, gr
 Kirk O'Donnell, a lawyer and lobbyist for a leading Washington law firm and the former chief aide to former Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., died on Saturday near his weekend home in Scituate, Mass. He was 52 and lived in Washington. A family friend, Robert E. Holland, said that Mr. O
 BRODY-Paul. On September 6, 1998 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Sybil and loving father of Jonathan, Ruth and Gary Zelman, and Sarah and Tom Janover. Adoring grandfather of Hannah, Ari, Joshua and Leah. We will miss him always and will remember him best at his fav
 KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Of Manhattan. On September 2, 1998, aboard Swissair 111. Best friend and beloved husband for 18 years of Laurie. Dearest and devoted father of Melanie (17), Elias (14) and Marisa (8). Loving son of Kerasia and Symeon Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis, Greece. Cherished brother o
 KRAMER-Eugene. On September 4, 1998. Loving husband of Florence, beloved father of Lenore, Robert and his wife Monique, and the late Douglas, and adoring grandpa to Liana and Matthew. Services September 8, 11:15, at Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76th St. KRAMER-Eugene. Beloved husband of
 MALLOY-Edwin A. On September 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Jennifer Combs and Timon. Loving grandfather of Meredith Combs. Dear brother of Howard Malloy and Tobene Rosenthal. Visiting Tuesday, 7-9 PM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Service Wednesday, S
 McKENNA-John J. ''Jack''. Of Ridgewood, N.J., died at home September 4, 1998. He was 67. He was Vice-President and Director, Sales Services for Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc., New York, New York. Beloved husband of Marie (Marone) and the late Dorothy ''Doe'' McKenna, who died in 1977. Lovi
 WALSH-John Perry. Died on Saturday evening, September 5, after a long and valiant battle with cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering in New York. A graduate of Yale, Class of 1950, a Captain in the United States Marine Corps, Mr. Walsh was President in the family apparel business, Florence Wals
 Douglas C. Jones, a writer who chronicled the mythology of the American West through fictional accounts of historic events, died on Aug. 30 at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 1968, after 25 years in the Ar
 George Hermann Buchi, an organic chemist who laid the groundwork for what became modern organic photochemistry, died on Aug. 28 while hiking with his wife in his native Switzerland, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was 77 and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and Jackson,
 BRODY-Paul. On September 6, 1998 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Sybil and loving father of Jonathan, Ruth and Gary Zelman, and Sarah and Tom Janover. Adoring grandfather of Hannah, Ari, Joshua and Leah. We will miss him always and will remember him best at his fav
 DETELS-Michael. Of Point Lookout, LI, died suddenly at the age of 63 on Thursday, September 3rd, at Long Beach Medical Center, Long Beach, NY. He is survived by his mother, Janice Crooker Detels, his beloved wife, Lucy (Nee Hitt) Detels, his three children Michael Clayton, Holly and Brett. 
 FUHRMANN-William. New York Road Runners Club lost a wonderful friend in the tragic death of Bill Fuhrmann. Not only did he touch the lives of those at our club with whom he dealt, but his generous support and sponsorship enriched the lives of so many people he never knew. We mourn the loss 
 GROMET-Dr. Robert Yarmouth. Sept. 6th, of Bay Harbor Island, Florida, formerly of Long Island, New York. Dr. Gromet practiced radiology since 1940, and had broad interests outside his field: world peace through world federalism, religion and poetry, and authored books in these three areas. 
 HAYMAN-Seymour ''Sy,'' age 83. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Jonathan and Valerie. Son of the late Louie and Ettie Hayman. Dear uncle of Ellen, Robert, Nicholas, Laura and Karen, & Joanne Larzik. Services on Wednesday, September 9th, at 12 PM, at Westchester Reform Temple, S
 HEINKELE-E. James. Of Atlantis, Florida, on September 5, 1998. Formerly of Douglaston and Quogue, Long Island. Beloved husband of fifty-two years of Peggy Rabbett Heinkele. Cherished father of Peggy Anne Heinkele Dineen & Mary Heinkele Swinford. Adored grandfather of Danielle Anne Dineen. R
 KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Of Manhattan. On September 2, 1998, aboard Swissair 111. Best friend and beloved husband for 18 years of Laurie. Dearest and devoted father of Melanie (17), Elias (14) and Marisa (8). Loving son of Kerasia and Symeon Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis, Greece. Cherished brother o
 KRAMER-Eugene. On September 4, 1998. Loving husband of Florence, beloved father of Lenore, Robert and his wife Monique, and the late Douglas, and adoring grandpa to Liana and Matthew. Services today, 11:15, at Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76th St. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in hi
 LOEWENHEIM-Harold A. Age 87. Died on September 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan Weingarten Gropper Loewenheim. Predeceased by his former wife Virginia Speyer Loewenheim and brothers Arnold Loewenheim and Frank Lowell. Other survivors include his daughters Barbara Jacobs and Patricia Franke
 MALLOY-Edwin A. The Rabbis, Officers, Trustees and members of Congregation Emanu-El mourn the passing of our respected and revered Honorary President, Edwin A. Malloy. A man of impeccable character and uncompromising integrity, he spoke truth for truth alone was in his heart. His intellectu
 METZGER-Juan. September 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Joe, Tim and Jacqui, cherished grandfather of Jill, loving brother of Miriam. Service Thursday, September 10, 9:45 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions in
 MURPHY-Gerald J. Age 69, of Stonington, CT. Died suddenly at his home on Saturday. Survived by his beloved wife Anne, daughters Dianne and Bridia, son Matthew and two grandchildren Laura and Ryan. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Wednesday at 11:00AM at St. Mary Church in Stoningt
 PATTERSON - Horace Justin (Bud). Of Heritage Village Southbury, Conn. Died on September 6, 1998 in his 87th year. Formerly of Brookhaven, L.I. and NYC. Beloved husband of the late Elaine (Tibbetts), loving father of Lainey P. Allen of Estero, Fla. and Judith P. Lanyi (Mrs. William A.) of We
 REISMAN-David B., 75 of NYC, passed away on September 6, 1998 of bladder cancer. He was a member of the D.G.A. Beloved husband of Laurette, devoted brother of Isabel (Saul) Cohen and loving nephew of Vivian Heisner. Funeral services are Tuesday (today) at 11:30 A.M. at the Plaza Memorial Ch
 SCOTT - Matthew Thompson. Partner and Sr. Vice President of the sugar brokerage firm Czarnikow-Rionda, and principal of Darby Scott Ltd in New York, died on Swissair flight 111 at the age of 33. Mr. Scott was a graduate of Brown University, with a degree in Comparative Literature, and the E
 STRAUSS-John (Hans), 85. Died September 6, 1998. The family of Hans Strauss mourns the loss of their beloved husband and father. Born and raised in Vienna, Austria, Hans earned his Doctorate of Law from the University of Vienna in 1938. That same year, to escape Nazi persecution, he and his
 THOMPSON-Darell ''D.V.'' Died Thursday, September 3, 1998. He is survived by his widow Linda of Minneapolis, MN, a son Paris of Shreveport, LA, and two sisters Dianne Hollier of Houston, TX, and Mary Echevarria, of Stafford, VA. There will be no memorial. Inlieu of flowers contributions may
 TUCHSCHNEIDER-Herman Sidney. July 28, 1917-September 5, 1998. Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn. Husband of Eleanor. Father of Janice and Stan Rosenstock, Meryl & Marvin Young. Loved by his grandchildren, Chris, Jonathan, Jodie and Adam. Brother of Rebecca Roth. Interment at Beth
 WILLIAMS-C. Dickerman. Died peacefully in his 98th year, August 12, 1998 in Hamden, Connecticut. Devoted husband of the late Virginia Fain Williams, and father of Joan Williams Farr of NYC, Honor Williams Ishida of Tokyo, and Stephen F. Williams of Washington, D.C. Memorial service at 11 A.
 Edward Robb Ellis, who in 1927 began keeping a diary to fend off the boredom of his small town Midwestern adolescence and emerged nearly 70 years later as the most prolific known diarist in the history of American letters, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manha
 Glenn Bernbaum, the owner of Mortimer's restaurant, a favorite watering hole for Manhattan socialites, glitz folk and achievers since 1976, died late Monday night or early yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause of death was unknown, his lawyer, A. Richard G
 Nikos Kefalidis, a real estate developer and founder of KLM Construction Inc., was among the 229  passengers who died on Swissair Flight 111 when it plunged into the sea off Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia, last Wednesday. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kefalidis (pronounced keff-a
 BERKOWITZ-Philip. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its longtime distinguished member, beloved husband of Sabine Berkowitz. We fondly recall his commitment to his family, to Israel and the Jewish people. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. 
 BERNBAUM - Glenn. I was shocked, a sharp feeling of loss overcame me when Mimi came back from that phone call and said Glenn is dead. How could it be? My mind replayed a scene with Glenn when the two of us were having lunch in my office and my secretary walked in saying Kennedy has been sho
 BOLSTERLI-Andrew. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion express our heartfelt condolences to John and Marianne Slade, beloved members of the HUC family, on the untimely and trag
 DIBA-Mahmoud. The Board of Trustees of The Hagop Kevorkian Fund mourn the sudden and tragic loss of Mahmoud Diba, beloved husband of Layla and father of Ahmad. His warmth and concern for family and friends will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to every member of his family. Ralph
 KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Our partners, managers, and staff express our overwhelming loss of a dear friend. His generosity, caring, and accomplishments made him a unique human being who will never be replaced and whom we will never forget. We miss him deeply and want to express our heartfelt sympath
 LATTIMER-Preston Don and Nancy Bennett of New York City tragically died on SwissAir Flight 111 on September 2, 1998. Don Lattimer was Managing Director of Allen & Company. His wife of forty-two years, Nancy Bennett Lattimer, was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother. The Lattimers are surv
 LISMAN-Jack V. M.D. The Board of Directors, Administration and Medical Staff of Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital mourn the passsing of Dr. Jack Lisman on August 30, 1998. Dr. Lisman's prestigious career as a member of our medical staff span over 40 years starting with his appointment to
 LOEWENHEIM-Harold A. The New York Chapter CLU & CHFC, the NYS and the NYC Associations of Life Underwriters and GAMA of Greater New York mourn the passing of their highly esteemed and beloved Past President. He will be sorely missed.       
 MALLOY-Edwin A. On September 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Jennifer Combs and Timon. Loving grandfather of Meredith Combs. Dear brother of Howard and Jospeh Malloy and Tobene Rosenthal. Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Service Wednesday, September 9, 2 P
 METZGER-Juan. September 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Joe, Tim and Jacqui, cherished grandfather of Jill, loving brother of Miriam. Service Thursday, September 10, 9:45 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions in
 O'DONNELL-Kirk. Formed a decade ago by a bi-partison group of New Yorkers, the ''Kirk O'Donnell Breakfast Club'' met regularly under his tutelage to hear a crosssection of views from Washington. Kirk was our mentor and guide to the mysteries and intricacies of American politics and governme
 SCOTT - Matthew Thompson. Partner and Sr. Vice President of the sugar brokerage firm Czarnikow-Rionda, and principal of Darby Scott Ltd in New York, died on Swissair flight 111 at the age of 33. Mr. Scott was a graduate of Brown University, with a degree in Comparative Literature, and the E
 SEAMAN-Bernard. Artist, cartoonist whose work mainly appeared in the union and the labor press died September 7 at the age of 85. The cause was cancer according to his wife, Helen. Mr. Seaman served as Art Editor for the garment workers' union (ILGWU), the Seafarers Union (SIU), and the Ele
 SHAPIRO-George M. Died in his sleep on September 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Karen Spector and the late Sanford Shapiro. His devotion to his family and his community was extraordinary. He had an outstanding career in law and public service beginning as Counsel to Gov
 STRAUSS-John. (Hans) 85. Died September 6, 1998. The family of Hans Strauss mourns the loss of their beloved husband and father. Born and raised in Vienna, Austria, Hans earned his Doctorate of Law from the University of Vienna in 1938. That same year, to escape Nazi persecution, he and his
 TAHMOUSH-Albert. The Chairman of the Board, Directors and Employees of Reading Entertainment Inc. express their deepest sorrow over the tragic loss aboard Swissair Flight 111 of our beloved Director and his wife, Albert J. and Odette Tahmoush. Al faithfully served on Reading's Board of Dire
 WEINSTEIN-Edwin, M.D. It is with great sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Dr. Weinstein, a pillar in the Department of Neurology at Mount Sinai for almost forty years, was a world recognized authority on Aphasia & communications 
 Juan E. Metzger, the man credited with turning yogurt -- an obscure, highly acidic dairy product -- into a fruit-flavored staple in the diets of many Americans, died on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 79. The cause was heart failure following complications from a stroke in De
 Leo Penn, an actor whose decade on the Hollywood blacklist in the 1940's and 50's stalled his career and eventually led him to direct, primarily in television, died on Saturday at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Malibu. The cause was lung canc
 BERNBAUM-Glenn. The patients and staff of the Center for Special Studies at the New York Presbyterian Hospital are shocked and saddened by the loss of our benefactor Glenn Bernbaum. Glenn was an intensely private man who downplayed his own contributions to the fight against AIDS. Yet his ab
 CREWDSON-Frank Roy ''Big D''. It is with great sadness that the Crewdson Family announces the death of Frank. He was born in Tenino, Washington in 1926 and he practiced psychoanalysis in New York for three decades. He will be buried in Becket, Massachusetts at a private ceremony. Frank was 
 DELLON-Gene. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gene Dellon, a generous supporter and valued member of our Plumbing and Heating Division. His devotion to the Jewish community has been embraced by his son, Scott, who has served as ch
 GODFREY-Kalter E. On September 7, 1998. Survived by wife Eileen Godfrey, son Christopher, daughter Elise, two stepsons Jeffrey and Craig Scolaro and five grandchildren. Services private. Donations in his memory may be sent to The Carol Hirsch Godfrey Memorial Fund at the Cornell University 
 GROSSFELD-Herman. On September 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Elaine, father of Marsha and Steven, brother of Celia, Jerry, Janice and Fred, and grandfather of seven. He will be deeply missed.       
 ISAAC-Hyman. A prominent New Jersey lawyer & former president of the Union County Bar Association, died at age 88 on September 8, 1998. He was a loving gentleman who will be missed. He tried cases before the Federal District Courts in NJ and NY and handled appeals before the U.S. Supreme Co
 KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The principals and employees of Fairmont Insurance and Fairmont Financial Services express their profound sympathy on the tragic and untimely passing of Nikos Kefalidis. You were more than just another client, you were a true friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wi
 LOEWENHEIM - Harold. The Board of Directors, staff, and children and families of Interfaith Neighbors extend their heartfelt sympathy to Susan Loewenheim and family. We will all deeply miss Harold. He guided us, cheered us, counseled us and extended his hand during our darkest moments. With
 MALLOY-Edwin. The Board of Directors of The Jewish Week mourns the loss of our fellow Board member and friend. We will miss his quiet strength and wise counsel. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Susan, and family. Richard Hirsch, President Lawrence Kobrin, Chairman       
 METZGER-Juan. The Board of the New York Society for the Deaf mourns the loss of its valued colleague and friend. Our thoughts are with his beloved family.       
 MORTIMER-John. The Community Service Society of New York mourns the untimely death of its former Trustee who served with distinction from 1983-88. Mr. Mortimer brought his expertise in labor relations to his work as Chair of the Personnel Committee and as a member of numerous committees inc
 MOZES-Jean-Max, Chief Financial Officer of Czarnikow-Rionda, graduate of the Sorbonne in Paris, France, died on Swissair Flight 111 on September 2, 1998, at the age of 51. Jean-Max leaves his wife, Annie, his three children, Marina, Nathan and Julie, and his step-son, Jean-Marie Paras and w
 RIZO-Marco. Passed away on September 8, 1998. Cuban composer, concert pianist and Musical Director of the ''I Love Lucy'' show. He is survived by his sisters, Maria Rizo Burton and Vilma Rizo, his brother, Evelio, his son, Mark, nephews, Herbert Hernandez, Anthony Hernandez, & niece, Diana 
 SAVAGE-W. Lee, age 69. The Board of Directors of Riverkeeper note with sadness the death on September 6 in Ossining, New York, of our honorary Director, a lover of the Hudson, a wise & witty artist, animator and film maker and a member of The National Academy of Design. We extend our condol
 SHAPIRO-George M. Died in his sleep on September 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Karen Spector and the late Sanford Shapiro. His devotion to his family and his community was extraordinary. He had an outstanding career in law and public service beginning as Counsel to Gov
 ZENIOS-Marino, died on September 2nd, 1998 when Swissair Flight 111 crashed near Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia. Marino was 33 years old. Marino was born in Athens, Greece and later spent the early years of his life in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. He later returned to Athens to study for his Ba
 Phil G. Goulding, a Pentagon spokesman who unknowingly passed along encouraging but false reports about United States progress in the war in Vietnam and later wrote a book urging officials to press for accurate information from the military, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He wa
 Charlie Feathers, one of the great original rockabilly singers, died on Aug. 29 at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis. He was 66 and lived in Memphis. The cause was complications from a stroke, his wife, Rosemary, said. On his best records of the mid- and late 1950's, released 
 Georges Meyer, chairman and chief executive of Galeries Lafayette S.A., one of Europe's largest department store chains, died Tuesday afternoon at his home in Paris. He was 67. The cause of death was myeloma, a form of leukemia, his wife, Noelle, said. In a 34-year career wi
 ARZBERGER-Robert P. Loving husband to Joan, devoted son in law to Edwin Blank and stepfather to Nicole Corcoran and Marc Dolgow passed away on 9/4/98. His unique personality will be missed.       
 BUCSEK-Kevin. Son of John and Marlene, stepson of Jacob Kowalcheck. Passed away September 7. His life touched many and his memory shall touch many more. Services will be private.       
 MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons
 MCNAMARA-Dan Goodrich, M.D. died at his home in Houston on September 9, 1998. He was born on October 19, 1922 in Waco, Texas to the late John Bolivar McNamara and Alice Battle McNamara. Dr. McNamara was a graduate of Baylor University and Baylor college of Medicine. He served his internship
 MOZES-Jean-Max. The officers and staff of Banca Commerciale Italiana mourn the tragic passing of Jean-Max Mozes. We are deeply saddened and much diminished by his loss, but so very grateful that he was a part of our lives. Giorgio Angelozzi Edward C. Bermant Claudio Marchiori       
 SCOTT-Matthew Thompson. The officers and staff of Banca Commerciale Italiana mourn the tragic passing of Matthew Scott. We are deeply saddened and much diminished by his loss, but so very grateful that he was a part of our lives. Giorgio Angelozzi Edward C. Bermant Claudio Marchiori       
 SHAPIRO-George M. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sorrow the passing of our friend, George M. Shapiro. As past President of the Baron Edmond Rothschild Foundation, George was an important philanthropic supporter of the Medical Center. We will miss his encouragement a
 Walter Adams, an antitrust expert whose concerns about concentrations of corporate power helped shape Government policy for three decades, died Tuesday at his home in East Lansing, Mich., according to a statement from Michigan State University, where he taught for 46 years. He was 78 years 
 David H. Holladay, a specialist in aviation safety, died on Sept. 4 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. Mr. Holladay, a resident of Jamul, Calif., was 73. The cause was heart failure, said Craig DeRousse, his stepson. Mr. Holladay became a licensed pilot when he
 Dr. Ellis R. Kerley, a forensic anthropologist whose expertise was widely sought in identifying human remains, including those of the Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele and victims of the Jonestown suicides in Guyana, died on Sept. 3 at a hospice in San Diego. He was 74 and lived in Lake San M
 Leonid Kinskey, the Russian-born character actor best known for his portrayal of Sascha, the bartender in Rick's Cafe Americain in ''Casablanca,'' died on Tuesday in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 95. In his most memorable role, Mr. Kinskey was one of the vivid nightclub characters wh
 Marco Rizo, a Cuban pianist best known for composing for the ''I Love Lucy'' show, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause of death was a heart attack, said a friend, David Younger. Although Mr. Rizo was known for his work w
 ARNOW-Peter (Meyer) died peacefully in his sleep on September 8, age 84 years. He was a poet, dreamer, and scientist who always loved to laugh. He was a devoted husband to Fran, loving father to Julie, and a playful, if sometimes forgetful, grandfather to Zoe, Sophia, and Navah. Graveside s
 BARTON-Charles Newbern, age 80, died Thursday, September 10th at home, 28 Formosa Drive, Charleston, South Carolina. Born: Douglaston, Long Island, New York on August 26, 1918. Parents: Walter E. Barton and Marion K. Barton. Schools: Deerfield Academy, Princeton University, and Harvard Busi
 EXELBERT-Myron. The community of West End Synagogue grieves with the family of Myron Exelbert and extends its deepest condolences to his wife Joanne, sons Ethan, David and Jeremy, mother Esther Exelbert Weiss, and to all of his family and friends. May be his memory be for a blessing. Rabbi 
 GORELICK-Ruth. Of Coconut Creek, Florida, formerly Tamarac, Florida, Ellenville and Brooklyn, New York. Died on August 29th. Past President of Nachamah Group of Hadassah. Beloved wife of Murray. Loving mother of Norrie and Evan, and mother-in-law of Alis & the late Howard. Adoring grandmoth
 LEFENFELD-Harry. Loving husband, father and grandfather whose kindness, love and humor filled the lives of those who shared life with him. An artist devoted to the joy of creation, he leaves behind a legacy of beauty and goodness. Services Sunday afternoon, Schwartz Brothers, Queens Bouleva
 LEONARD-Richard G. Of Philadelphia, on September 11, 1998. Husband of the late Patricia D. Leonard. Father of Hope Leonard Kirk. Also survived by two granddaughters, one great-grandson, and a sister Margaret Leonard Brown. Memorial service will be held from the Chapel of Bryn Mawr Presbyter
 MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons
 SILBERMAN-Aron. Age 99, died September 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Anna Silberman; dear father of Paul and Maurice; father-in-law of Marion and Edna; loving grandfather of Joseph, Barbara and Steven, Nina, Jeremy and Alisa, Mark and Pamela; adored great grandfather of Eli, Anna, N
 WEINSTEIN-Edwin, M.D. The Department of Neurology of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine mourns the passing of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Edwin Weinstein, Professor Emeritus of Neurology. He was a gentleman and a scholar, a wonderful teacher and a gentle man who made a major contribution
 WISHNER-Joseph. Age 101, on September 7th, 1998 in New York City. Born near Kiev, Russia, he emigrated to New York in 1906. He practiced as an orthopedic surgeon here for 70 years. A kindly and outstanding person, he will be missed. Predeceased by Rose his beloved wife of 68 years, he is su
 Richard Maass, a self-employed investments manager whose concern for the deprived and the victims of discrimination led him to become the founding chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry and president of the American Jewish Committee, died at his home in Purchase, N.Y., on Thurs
 Bob Dixon, a longtime broadcast announcer who had an unlikely star turn as a Connecticut-bred television cowboy and an even less likely run as Edward R. Murrow's best friend, died on Aug. 22 at a nursing home in Bethel, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Gaylordsville. To the children who
 Dr. Clifford Grobstein, a scientist, university administrator and leading framer of the ethical questions raised by advances in developmental biology, died on Sept. 6 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 82 years old and lived in Rancho Santa Fe. The cause was pneumonia, according to the Univ
 John Holliman, a CNN correspondent who distinguished himself by being one of only three journalists to broadcast live coverage of the 1991 bombing of Baghdad, died yesterday morning. He was 49. Mr. Holliman suffered internal injuries from a head-on car collision with a pickup truck.
 Rabbi Sender Deutsch, a leader of one of the largest Hasidic Jewish groups in the United States and the longtime chief editor and publisher of Der Yid, a Yiddish-language weekly newspaper, died on Sept. 2 at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 76 and a resident of the Williamsburg
 DeBEVOISE-William E. A resident of Floral Park and Shelter Island, died September 11, 1998. He was an enlisted WW II veteran, having served in the European theater of operations. Mr. DeBevoise, a graduate of St. John's Law School, was an associate of the law firm Shea & Gould. An active mem
 DONSHIK-Jacob, M.D. Survived by his loving wife, Frieda; his children Sharon, Peter, Irwin, and Ellen, grandchildren Russell, Leigh, Dan, Adam, and great-granddaughter Mikayla. He will be deeply missed and always remembered.       
 EXELBERT-Myron A. Beloved husband of Joanne. Devoted father of Ethan, Jeremy and David. Cherished son of Esther Exelbert Weiss. Loving brother of Stephen and his wife Ellen. Dear son-in-law of Edwin and Rhoda Storch. Services Sunday 1 PM, at ''Riverside-'' Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Sta
 FANTINI-Aldo P. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Aldo P. Fantini, beloved father of our friend and colleague, Gary A. Fantini, M.D., attending physician in the Division of Vascular Surgery. To Gary, his mother Mary, his uncle Joseph and his aunt
 FOSTER-Malcolm. September 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Malcolm Jr. and the late Barbara Hamilton. Contributions in his memory may be made to Princeton University, Class of 1932 or The American Red Cross in Greater New York. Funeral private.       
 FUHRMANN-William. The peaceful elegance of your life that was lost will forever leave a void in my heart. God gets to pick his angels, we are left with only memories. You will live on in my heart until we meet again. My love always, Joe       
 HART-Adam Zachary. We cherish our beloved Adam who left more than he took. Nanelle, Elaine, Cha Cha       
 HELWIG-Edward P. Age 95. On August 30, 1998, at his home in Larchmont, NY. Columbia 1924, realtor with Cross and Brown. Mourned by wife, Christine, daughters Christa Patterson and Marymina Wallis, five grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren. Donations to Columbia College or Country Dance 
 JARVIS-Adrian A. On September 10, 1998. Most wonderful loving husband of Maria (Coco), dearly beloved brother of Lelia D. Schlesinger. His lively spirit, and the love and caring that he brought to his family and friends will always be remembered. Services Monday, 12 PM, at ''The Riverside,'
 KLEIN-Stanley M. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the tragic death of Stanley M. Klein, longtime president of the Herman Goldman Foundation. The Foundation, for decades a staunch supporter and most devoted partner of UJA-Federa
 MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons
 MALLOY-Edwin A. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend, Edwin A. Malloy. He will be warmly remembered for his steadfast support of American artists and his dedication to furthering the welfare and progr
 OPPER-Lincoln, M.D. Age 92, died quietly September 1, 1998, at home after a brief illness. He was born in New Haven, CT. After graduating from Yale University in 1927, he spent a year at the Sorbonne studying philosophy. He studied medicine at the University of Berlin and at the University 
 ROSEN-Leon. On September 10, 1998, Delray Beach, FL. Formerly of Bethpage, N.Y. Beloved husband of Ruth for 54 years. Loving father of David, Mark and Hanora. Grandfather of Michael, John and Nicole. Father-in-law of Susan, Lynn and Ed. Service Sunday 12:15PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Stre
 SCHLOSSBERG-Michael. On September 9, 1998, at the age of 100. Beloved husband of the late Pauline. Dear brother of Phillip and Hyman Schlosberg and Mollie Orloff and of the late Irving, Charlie, George and Sam Schlosberg. Adored father of Elinor Amlen and Brenda Tepper. Precious uncle and g
 THACHER-John Taber. Formerly of Garden City, New York, died on September 11, 1998 in Exeter, NH. Born on December 20th, 1912 in Syracuse, NY, he attended Loomis School and graduated from Yale University in 1934. Husband of the late Mary Louise (nee Van Schaick) and father of Carol (Mrs Robe
 WISHNER-Joseph, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute note with deep regret the passing of our good friend and collegue, Joseph Wishner, M.D. Dr. Wishner had the distinction of being the first orthopaedic surger
 ZANOLLI-Angelo. Died September 6, 1998. He will be greatly missed as he was a warm and very caring friend to many. He is survived by a sister, brother, nieces and nephews, all residing in Naples, Italy. Friends of Angelo       
 Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died last night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardiac 
 Dr. Irving E. Segal, an influential mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who embraced many unpopular notions, including the view that there was no Big Bang at the dawn of the universe, died on Aug. 30 after he collapsed while walking near his home in Lexington, Mass. H
 FELICIANO-Efrain. In loving memory of Efrain Feliciano. Beloved husband, father, and grandfather. Passed away on September 10, 1998. May he rest in eternal peace. He will be forever missed.       
 GOODMAN-Blanche. On September 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late David Goodman. Devoted mother of Linda Klein and Paul and Eva Goodman. Adored grandmother to Tracy Klein and husband Greg Jackson. Loving sister of Mel Jason and his wife Shirley. Frequent officer on behalf of many interior de
 HALL-Robert L. Beloved father of Susan, David and Bruce. Loving grandfather of Katherine. Died on Friday September 11, 1998. He will be missed.       
 HARTMAN-Jean-Pierre, MD. On September 13, 1998. A medical doctor in Romania and then in the United States since 1963. He is survived by his beloved wife Eva. Friends may call Monday 6-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison at 81st Street. Services Tuesday 1 PM at the chapel. Entombment San
 HOLZER-Erich P. Husband of Eva, father of Vivian and Robert, grandfather of Susan, Robin, William, Gabriela and Jeffrey, fatherin-law of Gary Greenbaum and Viviana Holzer. Chairman of Chick Master Incubator Co. Funeral to be held Monday, September 14, at 11:30 AM, Temple Emanuel, 147 Tenafl
 OHNIKIAN-Joseph M. Our beloved Joseph of Kingston, NY, passed away on September 4, 1998 in Houston, TX. He is survived by his wife Audrey, daughter Nancy (Pierre Tutunjian), daughter Janet Ohnikian, mother Mary, sister Annette, brother Arthur, and grandchildren Elizabeth and Christopher. Me
 PADOW-Edward Mark, M.D. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. The staff and friends at Primary Pediatrics, Laurel, MD, mourn the loss of their partner and mentor tragically September 10, 1998. Our hearts go out to his family, Rhoda, Jeremey, Victoria, Jackie, Chris, Nick and mother Sylvia. Dearest frie
 PECK-Harris B., Dr. A loving husband and father and pioneer of community psychiatry. Died on September 4. His wife Ilka, children Ann, Yoav, Jonathan, Joshua and Joel and eight grandchildren mourn his loss. Contributions to PSR, 500 Riverside Drive, New York, NY 10122. Memorial Service Sept
 WOLF-Robert. 82. At home in Tucson, Arizona on September 12. Beloved husband of Peggy (Gluck). Devoted father of Dr. Thomas (Erica) and Nancy Harris (Paul). Cherished grandfather of six grandchildren. Mentor to many friends and clients. A graduate of Harvard College and Columbia Law School,
 Vu Van Mau, who was briefly South Vietnam's Prime Minister -- and who called for all Americans to leave Saigon just before it fell to the Communist forces in 1975 -- died on Aug. 20 in a hospital in Paris. He was 84. He emigrated from Vietnam to France in 1988, Le Monde said in repo
 George M. Shapiro, who was counsel to Gov. Thomas E. Dewey and a managing partner at the Proskauer Rose law firm in New York, died Sept. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Rita. A Manhattan native, Mr. Shapiro graduated from L
 Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died Sunday night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardia
 Henry Spira, the architect of the American animal rights movement's first successful campaigns to limit the use of animals in medical testing and a leading advocate of more humane treatment of farm animals, died early Saturday in his West Side apartment from esophageal cancer, according to 
 Holger W. Jannasch, who probed the dark recesses of the sea for the tiniest forms of life and helped discover how they constitute a hidden biosphere that dominates the planet and may be the place where life itself arose, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 71. Th
 ANTON-Jerry. (Gerard Anthony Antonachio.) On September 13, 1998. Beloved & respected photographers' & artists' representative for over 40 years. He is survived by his loving companion Robert Kosowski, brother William J. Anton, sister Barbara Noll, nieces Jenny Marrese, Maria P. Noll and Jan
 BREITROSE-Mark. Beloved husband to Roberta. Loving father to Howard, Wendi, Melissa and Paul. Grandfather to Brynn and Jack. We will miss you always. Service Wednesday, Sept. 16, 1998 at 10 am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad Street, Mt. Vernon. BREITROSE-Mark. The Jewish Com
 FOSTER-Malcolm. The Board of Trustees, volunteers and employees of the American Red Cross in Greater New York are deeply saddened by the death of Malcolm Foster, a long-time Red Cross supporter. We extend our condolences to his beloved wife, Helen, who is a former vice chairman of the board
 FREZZOLINO - James Agapito. Age 92 years of Ringwood, N.J., on Sunday, September 13th, 1998. Beloved husband of his wife of 62 years Lina (nee Poian), father of Jack Frezzolino of Hawthorne, Joan Crawford of Ringwood, Anna Marie Blimmel of West Hartford, CT, Sylvia Severance of Westerly, RI
 GRIFFIN-Gerald G. President Cozzi and the New York City Technical College/CUNY community mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, hospitality educator and provost, Gerry Griffin. We will sorely miss his wit, integrity and professionalism, and extend heartfelt condolences to his loving wife
 HOLZER-Erich P. The Board of Directors and staff of The Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Erich Holzer, a long-time member of The Board of Directors, most recently serving as the Chair of The Board of Trustees. Erich was a beloved leader of the JCC, generousl
 KLEIN-Stanley. Died tragically on Swissair Flight 111. Beloved husband to Carol, cherished father to Abraham and Cheryl, Alan and Odelia. Loving grandfather to Matthew, Daniel, Yonatan, Aliza Rachel and Nicole Rose. Devoted son to Harry and the late Rose, and brother to Steven and Anne. Car
 KRAAR-Ruth. The Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee express deepest sympathy to our colleague Martin Kraar, Executive Vice President of ACWIS, on the passing of his beloved mother. Sincere condolences to Marty and his entire family. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Inst
 LANIER-Robert S (Robin). Died on September 9, 1998, in Sheffield, Mass., beloved husband of Madi Lanier and beloved father of Mary Day Wolleheim, Sabina Messenger, Christopher and Kate Lanier. We will miss him terribly.       
 MAASS-Richard. The students, faculty, and administrators at New York University express deep sorrow on the loss of Richard Maass. His support and guidance will be deeply missed. The Richard Maass Collection of Westchester and New York State, now housed in NYU's Fales Library, will be a last
 OHNIKIAN-Joseph M. Our beloved Joseph of Kingston, NY, passed away on September 4, 1998 in Houston, TX. He is survived by his wife Audrey, daughter Nancy (Pierre Tutunjian), daughter Janet Ohnikian, mother Mary, sister Annette, brother Arthur, and grandchildren Elizabeth and Christopher. Me
 PECK-Harris, M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our professor emeritus, a distinguished psychiatrist and educator who was associated with our medical school for four decades. A pioneer in social and community psychiatry, he inspired coun
 RAFFERTY-Michael. New York Bus Service mourns the passing of its President, Michael Rafferty, a man whose wisdom, humility, patience, compassion and fairness knew no bounds. As a leader, mentor and friend, his loss is heartfelt by all who knew him. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his be
 SANDERSON-F. Thayer, 74. Of Old Lyme, CT, on September 12. He is survived by his wife Julie, daughters Katharine Heidlage and Terry Smith, son George Sanderson, and nine grandchildren. Memorial Service will be held at St. Ann's Church, Old Lyme, CT., at 11AM., Saturday, September 19. Memori
 SETTE-Edward J. The Officers, Board of Directors and Council of Trustees of United Seamen's Service mourn the death of Edward J. Sette, who served the agency for thirty-three years and retired as Executive Director in 1979. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends during thi
 STRAMBI-Nicola. On September 11, 1998 after a long battle with lung cancer. He is survived by his wife, Barbara and daughter Nicole Struensee. Memorial service at a later date.       
 WOLF-Robert. The Trustees and Staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of Robert Wolf, our past president, honorary trustee and friend. Bob joined the Alliance's Board of Trustees in 1948 and served as President of the Alliance from 1958-1961. During this per
 Ricardo Ramirez, the Guatemalan guerrilla commander turned peacemaker who was better known to his countrymen by his nom de guerre, Rolando Moran, died on Friday in a hospital in Guatemala City. He was 67 and had lived in the Guatemalan capital since a peace accord that ended the country's l
 Yang Shangkun, a former President of China and the military leader who orchestrated  the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989 on Tiananmen Square, died early today, the Chinese Government announced. He was 91. Mr. Yang was one of the last of the Old Guard of revolutionar
 Dane Clark, the Brooklyn-born actor whose down-to-earth portrayals of tough but appealing soldiers, sailors and pilots in World War II films for Warner Brothers brought him stardom, died on Friday at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Brentwood. 
 Johnny Adams, one of the last of the great blues and ballad singers, died on Monday in Baton Rouge, La., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for his publicists, Myers Media, in New York. Mr. Adams was in many ways an anachronism, a singer who co
 CAMERON-Cliff. On September 13, 1998 of Forest Hills, New York. Organist Emeritus First Church of Christ, Scientist, Forest Hills after forty years of service. The highlights of his 60 year career include: recognition as an original organist with NBC in the early days of television soap ope
 FOSTER-Malcolm. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Malcolm Foster. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Helen and to the entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary       
 FRIED-Pepi, Mrs. Lido Beach Synagogue extends condolences to our past president and Board member, Bert Fried and his entire family on the loss of his beloved mother, Mrs. Pepi Fried. Alex Berkovitch, President Rabbi Daniel Mehlman       
 GEWIRTZ-Rabbi Jonas. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Rabbi Jonas Gewirtz, cherished father, beloved husband, and renowned scholar, who enriched the lives of others through his gentleness and wisdom. He passed on a legacy of generosity to his family, l
 HOLZER-Erich. The Officers and members of the Boards of Governors of The Jewish Home and Rehabilitation Center & The Jewish Home at Rockleigh note with profound sorrow the passing of our fellow Board Member, dear friend and benefactor, Erich Holzer. An extraordinary man & gentle soul, we wi
 KLEIN-Stanley. We mourn the tragic loss on the Swissair 111 of our devoted friend, officer and supporter. A man of deep faith, his devotion to his people was legendary, yet he embraced all people who were in need. His deeds of humanity, charity and kindness will live on for posterity. Our h
 MERRELL-Richard. Actor, television and film writer and designer, died Sunday, September 13 at his home in Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. The cause of death was heart failure. He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Jan Miner, and two sisters, Sister Jeanne Merrell and Audrey Shepard. No s
 MYERSON-Robert, 77 of New York passed away Monday, September 14th, 1998. He was the loving father of Laurel (Steven) Isicoff, Joseph (Michelle) Myerson; dear brother of Edward (Priscilla) Myerson and cherished grandfather of Joseph, Alison, Michael, Daniel, Andrew and Caitlyn. A memorial se
 O'DEA-Thomas J. Cum Dio, On September 13, 1998. Survived by six loving children: Noreen, Eileen, Brian, Kerry, Denise, Katie and the late Tod; five grandchildren and his sister Mary Drury. As per his request, no services were held. Donations to Meals on Wheels, 718-745-3660, or for his memo
 PECK-Harris B., M.D. The Board of Trustees & staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Harris B. Peck, M.D., an esteemed member of our senior staff and a consultant to the agency for many years. A leading psychiatrist, Dr. Peck will long be remembered 
 RAFFERTY-Michael. New York Bus Service mourns the passing of its President, Michael Rafferty, a man whose wisdom, humility, patience, compassion and fairness knew no bounds. As a leader, mentor and friend, his loss is heartfelt by all who knew him. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his be
 REYNOLDS-William L. September 14, 1998. Devoted husband of Margaret Buck. Survived by his daughter Constance Bierkan and his granddaughters Elizabeth Welker and Laura Welker. Brother of Newlin Reynolds. Service on Friday, September 18, 1998, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 SAMII-Mohammad Reza, 42, architect. Beloved husband of Negar, and loving father of Guive, died in NY Hospital, August 26, 1998. Member of the American Institute of Architecture, his work in all three NY airports has been much admired. He was a loyal, sincere and extremely kind husband. He h
 WEINSTEIN-Edwin, MD. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Insititute and Society note with profound sorrow the recent passing of one of their most acclaimed colleagues. Dr. Weinstein, a graduate of 50 years, was connected with White from its inception. A fine scholar, academician, diagn
 Scott P. Mason, a former chairman of the finance department at Harvard University's business school, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 50. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Linda. Mr. Mason joined the faculty of the Graduate School of Busines
 ABRAMS-William B. The Editors and Staff of The Merck Manual of Geriatrics mourn the death of our great colleague and friend, William B. Abrams. The world is a better place for all he gave it.       
 BANK-Herbert D., 86. Of Cranbury, NJ died September 15, 1998. A graduate of St. John's College School of Pharmacy, he owned & operated Bank's Pharmacy in Brooklyn until 1970. He was a consultant to the Equitable Life Assurance Company & President of the Brooklyn Consolidated Retail Pharmaci
 DUDLEY-James C., 77. Redding, CT. On September 16. Survivors include his wife Elisabeth C., two sons David C. of Denver, CO and Henry C. of Bedford, NY, two daughters Sarah Dudley Plimpton, of NY and Jane Dudley of Seattle, Washington, & ten grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at
 FLORSHEIM-James. On September 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Harriette. Devoted father of Henry and his wife Doe. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra and Sydney. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Thursday, September 17, 1998, 6-9 P.M. Graveside service 
 GOLDHUSH-Dr. Alvin A. On September 16, 1998 after a long illness at the age of 79 of Nassau Pt., Cutchogue, formerly of Bayshore. Beloved husband of the late Viola Raybin Goldhush, MD. Devoted father of Susan Goldhush and Karen and Hank Kranichfeld. Loving grandfather of Bram, Oliver and An
 KEMPNER-Carl Loeb. Of White Plains, New York on Sept. 15th, 1998. Husband of Doris Coleman Kempner. Son of Margaret Loeb Kempner & the late Alan Horace Kempner. Father of Kathryn Kempner Poteat, Margaret Adeline Kempner, Michael Coleman Kempner, & Carl Loeb Kempner, Jr. Father-in-law of Dr.
 KLEIN-Stanley. The Directors, Officers and Employees of Kahn Brothers & Co., Inc. note with deep sadness the passing of Stanley Klein, Senior Partner of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein. Stanley was a practical, vibrant and brilliant attorney whose wise counsel guided many. Our heartfelt co
 KOTZEN-Marvin S. Of Larchmont, NY on September 16, 1998. Dearest husband and companion of Lynn (Andrews), wonderful father to Ellen and Jeff Spokes and Debby Kotzen, beloved grandfather of Joshua and Toby Spokes. He died as he lived, with dignity and without complaint. Funeral will be Frida
 LANGSAM-Eugene A. Adored and devoted husband to Myra. Cherished and loving father to his children, Nathania and Jennifer and David Kopelman. A compassionate and loyal man, ''Gene'' was a mentor to his family and friends. He touched the lives of all those who knew him. The family thanks all 
 MARTINEZ-Juana. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Juana Martinez, the devoted wife of our esteemed client and friend of many years, Eugene Martinez, Sr. Our heartfelt condolences to him, to his son, Eugene Jr, his daughter Juana Lynn, and t
 MERRELL-Richard. Actor, television and film writer and designer, died Sunday, September 13 at his home in Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. The cause of death was heart failure. He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Jan Miner, and two sisters, Sister Jeanne Merrell and Audrey Shepard. No s
 PIEL-William, Jr. The Founder and Board of Trustees of the Cancer Research Institute mourn the loss of William Piel. Mr. Piel served as a CRI Trustee from 1956 until his death. His exceptional wisdom, vision and experience were indispensable in guiding the Institute through the years.      
 RASMINSKY-Louis C.C. Former Governor of the Bank of Canada. On September 15, 1998, lucidly and serenely in his 91st year at home in Ottawa, surrounded by the love of his children Michael and Lola, his daughter-in-law Judy, his grandchildren Sonya, Jonathan, Jeremy and Abigail, his special f
 REYNOLDS-William L. September 14, 1998. Devoted husband of Margaret Buck. Survived by his daughter Constance Bierkan and his granddaughters Elizabeth Welker and Laura Welker. Brother of Newlin Reynolds. Service on Friday, September 18, 1998, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 Robert Bierstedt, an author and emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Virginia, died on Sept. 8 in Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 and lived in Charlottesville. He began teaching at the University of Virginia in 1972 and became a professor 
 Thomas J. Murphy, who led the Newspaper Guild of New York for 22 years, including during the bitter 114-day strike of 1962-63, died yesterday at Regency Park Nursing Home in Hazlet, N.J. He was 91. Mr. Murphy was widely respected as a tough and savvy negotiator when he headed the Gu
 Carl Loeb Kempner, the managing senior partner at the Wall Street firm of Hamershlag, Kempner & Company and a longtime supporter of education, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 74 and had been battling prostate cancer for more than 20 years, according to his son Michael Ke
 Junius Kellogg, the Manhattan College player whose refusal to accept a bribe to fix the score of a 1951 game touched off the widest betting scandal in basketball history, died Wednesday in the Kingsbridge Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71. Kellogg, who was para
 CLARK-Edward G. Age 74. Died suddenly on September 15th, at Saltaire, Fire Island. He was a former reporter and editor for the Associated Press. His longtime companion Suzanne Sames and his many, many friends in New York, Green Valley, AZ, and Madison, WI., treasured his wit and devoted fri
 DUDLEY-James C., 77. Redding, CT. On September 16. Survivors include his wife Elisabeth C., two sons David C. of Denver, CO and Henry C. of Bedford, NY, two daughters Sarah Dudley Plimpton, of NY and Jane Dudley of Seattle, Washington, & ten grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at
 ELLIOT-''Win'' Irwin. Age 83 of Westport and Weston, CT, died peacefully at Norwalk Hospital on Thursday, September 17, 1998. Born in Chelsea, MA, he was a graduate of Everett High School & the University of Michigan, '37. He served with the U.S. Maritime Service 1939-1941. During a 50 year
 EVANS-Carnot Wagener, 78. Of Kilmarnock, Virginia, formerly of Darien, CT. Died Wednesday, September 16, 1998. He was a retired investment banker and CEO of Clark, Dodge & Company of NY, NY. He is survived by his wife Jacquelyn P. Evans, a daughter, two sons, five grandchildren and a brothe
 GOTTESMAN-Callman. We note with sadness the passing of our longtime neighbor. He and his deceased wife Eleanor were the best of neighbors and we extend our condolences to the family. Board of Dirctors Neighbors and Shareholders The Dakota, Inc.       
 KEMPNER-Carl. On behalf of the board of directors, professional advisory board, and staff of the National Center for Learning Disabilities (NCLD), we mourn the passing of our longtime board member and dear friend. Carl Kempner served on the board of directors of NCLD since its founding 21 y
 KLEIN-Stanley. The directors, offices and employees of Encore Marketing International, Inc. mourn the death of our director, counselor and good friend, Stanley Klein, who perished on SwissAir Flight 111. Stanley's intelligence, love of life, good heart and generosity were and will continue 
 KOTZEN-Marvin S. Of Larchmont, NY on September 16, 1998. Dearest husband and companion of Lynn (Andrews), wonderful father to Ellen and Jeff Spokes and Debby Kotzen, beloved grandfather of Joshua and Toby Spokes. He died as he lived, with dignity and without complaint. Funeral will be Frida
 KRAMER-Allan. On September 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara, loving father of Kevin and Kerri, cherished son of Gladys and the late Louis. Dear brother of Joel Kramer, Cheryl Yarmus and brother-in-law to Alan and Alice Rhein, and Scott Yarmus. Services Friday, 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside
 LALL-Arthur. The Fund for New Priorities in America mourns the passing of valued friend and member Arthur Lall on September 13, 1998 and extends our sympathy to his wife Betty and his family. A memorial service for the former Ambassador from India to the United Nations will be held on Octob
 LANGSAM-Eugene A. Adored and devoted husband to Myra. Cherished and loving father to his children, Nathania and Jennifer and David Kopelman. A compassionate and loyal man, ''Gene'' was a mentor to his family and friends. He touched the lives of all those who knew him. The family thanks all 
 LeCOMPTE-Philip M. M.D., age 90, of Lexington, MA. formerly of Newton Centre, died Tuesday, September 15 at Brookhaven, 1010 Waltham Street, Lexington, MA. Born in Binghamton, New York, October 4, 1907. he was the son of Irville Charles LeCompte and Harriet Bernice Maclachlan. Magna Cum Lau
 MORGAN-David E. September 17, 1998. Of Palm Beach and New York. Devoted companion of Sarita Server. Loving father of Leslie Solmonson, Alexandra Ciardi, Fern Lindsay & Nicholas Morgan. Cherished grandfather of twelve. Service Sunday, September 20, 1998, 10 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 RASMINSKY-Dr. Louis. Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a long time friend, former Governor of the Bank of Canada, and the first Canadian to receive an honorary degree from YU. He also served as honorary national chairman of YU's Bora Laskin Memorial Scholarship Fund. We extend
 REYNOLDS-William L. September 14, 1998. Devoted husband of Margaret Buck. Survived by his daughter Constance Bierkan and his granddaughters Elizabeth Welker and Laura Welker. Brother of Newlin Reynolds. Service on Friday, September 18, 1998, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 SOKOL-Morris. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its member Philip Sokol. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 WEISSER-Nathaniel, 79. Beloved husband, father, grandfather. Highly respected employer. A man of great integrity, generosity who will be sorely missed by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife Eleanor, his daughter Susan, son Robert, his daughter-inlaw Judith, his grandchildren Amanda
 ZWEIFACH-Ira. The Collectors Club mourns the passing of its former president, past editor of ''The Collectors Club Philatelist'' and member of the Board of Governors for many years. His devotion to the Club and its functions will be gratefully remembered.       
 Reynold B. Johnson, a prolific inventor best known for creating the world's first commercial computer disk drive, died on Tuesday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92. The cause was a metastatic melanoma, family members said. Mr. Johnson's first notable invention is familiar to an
 George E. Danielson, a California Congressman who urged the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974, died of heart failure on Sept. 12. He was 83 and lived in Monterey Park, Calif. During his 12 years in the House, Mr. Danielson became known nationwide for the wit, brevity
 Gerold Frank, a pioneer of the contemporary literary form of the as-told-to celebrity biography, died on Thursday at the Logan Square East Retirement Community in Philadelphia. He was 91. Mr. Frank also wrote such well-reviewed books as ''The Boston Strangler,'' which was made into 
 BRUDNER-James. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his tragic death with profound sorrow. Our hearts reach out in sympathy to Harriet and Sheldon and to all who loved him. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen R. Saxl, President       
 CURRIER-Michael. The Board of Trustees, on behalf of the entire Putney School community, deeply mourns the death of our friend and colleague Michael Currier. A Putney graduate, class of '79, and an active and long-time Trustee, Michael personified with passion and grace the values of the Pu
 DUDLEY-James C., 77. Redding, CT. On September 16. Survivors include his wife Elisabeth C., two sons David C. of Denver, CO and Henry C. of Bedford, NY, two daughters Sarah Dudley Plimpton, of NY and Jane Dudley of Seattle, Washington, & ten grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at
 HOPKINS-John J. Of Mt. Vernon, New York, on September 17, 1998. Husband of Joan Whittington Hopkins. Father of Richard, James, Edward, William, Robert, Eugene and Margaret Burns. Brother of Rose Kelly and Theresa Schwarz. Grandfather of 13. Calling hours at The Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral
 KELLOGG-Junius. The NYC Consortium for Independent Living is deeply saddened by the death of Junius Kellogg. As President of the Harlem Independent Living Center & in so many other capacities, he graced our lives with his kindness, wisdom, & vision. Junius Kellogg was a champion of equal op
 KEMPNER-Carl Loeb. Commandeur Carl Loeb Kempner, distinguished member of our august Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin. We shall miss his companionship at our table together with his knowledgeability and keen enjoyment. Our regrets extend to Commandeur Thomas Kempner and to other members 
 MASLOW-Murray. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Devoted father of Richard, Mary Beth (Jeffrey) Davidson and Ilene (James) Robbins. Loving grandfather of Jessica, Leslie, Greg, Spencer and Jordanne. Services Temple Sharey Tefilo-Israel, 432 Scotland Rd., S. Orange, N.J., Sunday, 10 A.M. For info, 
 MEADOW-Cyril Z. Of New York City and Dummerston, Vermont, died on Friday, September 18, 1998 in Dummerston, Vermont. Mr. Meadow was 71 years old. He is survived by his wife Phyllis of New York City; his daughter Dena Reed of Brookline, MA.; and grandchildren Rebecca, Amanda and Zachary Reed
 MORGAN-David E. September 17, 1998. Of Palm Beach and New York. Devoted companion of Sarita Server. Loving father of Leslie Solmonson, Alexandra Ciardi, Fern Lindsay & Nicholas Morgan. Cherished grandfather of twelve. Service Sunday, September 20, 1998, 10 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 MURPHY-Thomas J. The Newspaper Guild of New York mourns the passing of Thomas J. Murphy who served as Executive Vice President of our union from 1948 through 1970. His immense accomplishments will forever be remembered by our members. Barry F. Lipton, President Newspaper Guild of New York  
 SAX-Harry. On 9/17/98. Beloved husband of the late Anne. Devoted father of Carol (Tom) Neuman, Nancy (Steve) Dashefsky. Dear brother of the late Joseph Sax, Abraham Sax, Clara Weinberger (Sax) and Sarah Sacks (Sax). Cherished grandfather of Lauren, Jill, Lindsay and Kim. Loving uncle of man
 ZWEIFACH-Ira. The directors and members of the France & Colonies Philatelic Society mourn the passing of their longtime director, past president, and devoted program chairman, Ira Zweifach. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Richard M. Stevens, President Walter Parshall, Secre
 ALCHON-Bernard Forbes 83, an Orphan Train rider. Born November 1914 in NYC to Grace Forbes, father unknown, at 1 1 /2 ''Henry Forbes'' was sent by the Children's Aid Society (CAS) to Osage, IA, where adoption by Maude and Guy Alchon ''transformed a throwaway into a son.'' To honor their mem
 BONNER-Robert D. On September 16, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Tricia, his daughter, Bissie, his mother, Marie, brothers Mark and Paul and nieces and nephews. Private services were held. Donations in his memory can be made to the National Brain Tumor Foundation, 785 Market St, Suite 16
 CHAMBERS-Robert Mitchell, age 60, of Palm Beach, FL, passed away suddenly September 15, 1998, at his home. Mr. Chambers was born June 13, 1938, in Queens, NY. He was a graduate of St. John's University. He served with the 1st Squadron 101st Calvary U.S. Army. Mr. Chambers was a top sales ex
 CLARK-Edward G. Age 74. Died suddenly on September 15th, at Saltaire, Fire Island. He was a former reporter and editor for the Associated Press. His longtime companion Suzanne Sames and his many, many friends in New York, Green Valley, AZ, and Madison, WI., treasured his wit and devoted fri
 CURRIER-Michael Stephen. On September 16th, after an accident, in Sante Fe, New Mexico. Beloved and devoted husband and father, he was an investor, philanthropist and supporter of the Dalai Lama. He will be missed immeasurably by his family and friends. A private memorial service will be he
 EBIN-Dr. Paul. He was taken too soon, too young and at his prime. Heartfelt sympathy to his devoted parents, his family and the children he loved. The Law Firm and Staff of Rudnick Sheps       
 GODIN-Michel R. Of Avranche, France. Passed away August 30, 1998. Former Captain at Le Cirque. He was survived by his daughter Astrid Godin. Memorial services will be held in his country of birth.       
 HOPKINS-John J. On behalf of the Boards of Directors, Administration & staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc, and Calvary Fund, Inc, we mourn the passing of our longtime board member and dear friend. John Hopkins served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1982. He gave generously of his time,
 KALT-Norman. We have had good times and games together, but the game of life was too short. He will be sadly missed. Carole and Larry Beil       
 KRAMER-Allan: Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our member. Our sympathies to his wife Barbara, children Kevin and Kerri, mother Gladys and the family. May their memories be a source of comfort. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 LAIRD-W. Frederick. Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Columbia Gas System, Inc., died Tuesday, Sept. 15, at Christiana Hospital in Wilmington, DE after a brief illness. He was 79. Survivors include his wife of 55 years, Jane, two sons, Frederick W. of Plainfield, NJ and Jo
 MORGAN-David. We note with sorrow the passing of member David Morgan on September 16th and extend our condolences to his family. Board of Governors City Athletic Club of New York       
 SLONE-Harry. Beloved husband of Ruthe. Loving father of Richard and Merry. Adored grandfather of Tara & Wayne Goldstein, Ondine and Michael Miranda, Lauren and David Leighton. Cherished great grandfather of Zachary, Joshua, Daniel and Max. He will be in our hearts forever.       
 STRUHS-Thomas Haser, 52. On September 16. A graduate of the Harvard School of Design, he last worked for Kajima International. He is survived by his brothers, Edward and Joseph of Dixon, IL. and James of Charleston, S.C. and by his companion of over 20 years. Frank Oveis. A Memorial Service
 YOUNG-Raymond F. September 18, 1998, of Chappaqua, NY. Loving husband of Carol. Devoted father of Jessica, Kelsey and Alexandra. Dear brother of Steve Young and Melissa Wilkinson. Cherished son of Robert and the late Bernice Young and step-son of Joyce Young. Funeral service at Clark Associ
 Win Elliot, whose affable broadcasting style colored his calls of Rangers hockey games and whose sports reports were marked by sophisticated writing, died on Thursday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 83. The cause of death was not available. Mr. Elliot's diverse career was
 Arthur S. Lall, an Indian diplomat of the Jawaharlal Nehru generation who helped secure his newly independent country a place near the center of world affairs in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 13 in New York. He was 87. Mr. Lall, who settled in Manhattan at the end of his diplom
 Dr. Edwin A. Weinstein, a former neuropsychiatrist at Mount Sinai Medical School in Manhattan who maintained that people, even Presidents, go to extraordinary lengths to hide their illnesses, died on Sept. 7 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. The cause was a stroke, family memb
 Frederick H. Korth, a Texas banker who served for two years as Secretary of the Navy in the Kennedy Administration, died on Sept. 14 at his home in El Paso. He was 89, and had retired from his practice at a Washington law firm in December. The cause was cancer, said his son, Fritz-A
 CURRIER-Michael Stephen. On September 16th, after an accident, in Sante Fe, New Mexico. Beloved and devoted husband and father, he was an investor, philanthropist and supporter of the Dalai Lama. He will be missed immeasurably by his family and friends. A private memorial service will be he
 HOPKINS-John J. The Board of Trustees and the Priests, Religious, Lay Staff and Volunteers of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York mourn the death of our devoted trustee and admired friend. We cherish the memories of his wisdom, his gentle encouragement and his open-hearted
 LEVEY-Seymour. Age 84. Died suddenly September 18. Former New York City school principal and educator. Beloved husband of Ruth for 57 years. Devoted father of Debra and Richard. Grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be missed.       
 NEWMAN-Norman, age 45. Of Lawrence, New York. Winston & Strawn remembers and remains saddened by the untimely passing of their partner & friend, Norman Newman. Mr. Newman served as chairperson of the firm's employee benefits and compensation practice, was a frequent lecturer and writer in h
 TURKEL-Gary, 58. Longtime resident of Chatham Towers in Lower Manhattan, passed away on Saturday morning, September 19. He leaves his wife Toby, son Avi, twin brother Michael, and sister Barbara, three nieces and four nephews in Israel, and three nieces and two nephews locally. For 26 years
 GERETY-Pierce J. A memorial service for Pierce J. Gerety, Jr. will be held on Saturday, September 26 at 1 PM. Family and friends will gather at the home of his mother, 1133 Cedar Road, Southport, CT. A reception will follow the service. Memorial contributions may be made to the Pierce Geret
 LOIS-Harry Joseph. 9/5/'58 to 9/21/'78. Our love for him deepens; Our sadness remains unbearable. Rosemary, Luke and George Lois       
 Michael Stephen Currier, a rancher and philanthropist who was the manager of the Economic Development Fund for the Tibetan Community in Exile, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 37, and lived in Santa Fe. The cause was injuries suffered in a fall in
 BRUDNER-Jim. The Board and Staff of the Treatment Action Group (TAG) mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Jim Brudner. Jim valiantly fought AIDS, both personally and professionally, for many years, and his struggle deeply inspired us. We will miss him. Mark Harrington, Senior Pol
 FAYON-Abram Miko. Born on April 1, 1920, died at his home in Pelham, NY on September 20, 1998 at age 78. He was the beloved, cherished, honored husband of Shoshana (nee Schmeltzer-Pilcer) and dear father of David, Philip, and Annia. He remains to all who knew him, a wonderful, caring compan
 LAVENSON-James H. He asked so little, yet gave so much. Sail on sweet captain. Kris and Jerry Becker       
 LEEDS-Milton. Of 366D Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. Died Monday September 21. Born November 14, 1909 in East Orange NJ, son of the late Louis and Blanche Schuhl. He went directly into the securities business after graduating high school, and for forty years worked at Pershing & Co. Stock
 SCOPP-Dr. Irwin W. On September 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Edith, cherished father of Alfred, loving father-in-law of Fredrika, dear grandfather of David. Also devoted brother-in-law of Pearl and Natalie, cherished brother of the late Clara, Harry and Rose. His distinguished career includ
 WHITNEY-Don F. Of Furlong, PA on Sunday, September 20, 1998 at his home, Meetinghouse Ford. Son of the late Fay & Hazel Johnson Whitney. Brother of Morton J. Whitney and William D. Whitney, both of West Bend, Wisconsin. Longtime companion of James F. Paccioretti. Uncle of three nieces and t
 Bill Cratty, a choreographer and dancer with the Jose Limon Dance Company, died on Sept. 9 at his home in London. He was 47. The cause was liver cancer, said Trader Selkirk, Mr. Cratty's companion. Mr. Cratty was ''a very pure and concentrated dancer'' with ''integrity of ge
 Louis P. Martini, a leading figure in the California wine business and chairman of the Louis M. Martini Winery in Napa Valley, died Monday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. The Martini family has been involved in the
 AYE-Dennis S. A sweet, gentle man died Sunday, September 20, 1998 after a long illness. Survived by his adored mother, Kin Hla Kittee Toon Aye, his beloved children, Morgan and Gareth, his wife Terry, his sisters and brothers-inlaw Lei and Scott Ennis, Doris and Dominick Celiberti, Daisy an
 BOUCHER-Thomas O'Neil a longtime resident of Delray Beach Florida and Manchester Vermont, died Sunday, September 13 at the Vermont Respite House located in Williston, VT. after a brief illness. He was 85 years old. Mr. Boucher was born May 18, 1913 in Hartford, Connecticut. He graduated fro
 CAUMAN-Caleb. On Sept. 21, 1998 at St. Albans Veterans Hospital. Beloved husband of Rebecca Lowenstein Cauman, devoted father of Ann Cauman and Martin White and Richard Cauman and Catherine Hoffmeier Cauman of Washington, D.C. Adored grandfather of Sam and Seth Cauman and Jason and Charles 
 COHEN-Benjamin. Died peacefully after 90 full years on Sept 21, 1998. He was an avid golfer, artist extraordinaire, and bridge player. Father of Arthur Cohen & Dorothy Schrager, grandfather to Eric Cohen & David Schrager. Graveside services on Wednesday 2 P.M. at Cedar Park Cemetery.       
 DELAFIELD-Charles B. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System was deeply saddened by the passing of Charles B. Delafield, a long-time President of the former Community Hospital at Glen Cove. Mr. Delafield served our community with skill and compassion. We extend our sincere condolen
 FRIEDMAN-K. Bertram. The Board and staff of the Samuel Field YM-YWHA are profoundly saddened by the passing of K. Bertram Friedman, a valued past president and devoted board member. Mr. Friedman was a unique & multi-talented individual whose love for his family, zest for life and commitment
 GAFFNEY-Richard W. Of Brooklyn, New York, and Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. Died suddenly at home Sept. 22, 1998. An artist, educator & sportsman, he was the husband of Ann Walker Gaffney, the father of Walker Gaffney of St. Louis, and Elizabeth Gaffney of Brooklyn, & grandfather of Rynier Forr
 GERMAN-Philip E. On September 21, 1998. Our beloved Phil was too soon snatched from us by a bunch of bees. He died of anaphylactic shock due to multiple beestings. Phil was born in the Bronx, was a World War II veteran, and lived very happily in Princeton, NJ, for the past 24 years. He had 
 HORNER-Chuck. TV comedy writer & playwright, died September 15 in New York City. He was born 86 years ago in Delphos, Ohio. He graduated with high honor from Ohio Wesleyan University. During the 30's he and his first wife Katie worked as puppeteers for the Tatterman Marionettes and Bil Bair
 KITAY-Victor. Beloved husband of Betti, adored father of Arlene & Robert Kaplan, Madeline & Monte Wolfson, cherished grandfather of Marc, Wendy, Ricky, David, and Jessica. He will always be remembered as the most loving, giving, caring, and sharing human being. A man to emulate and admire. 
 KOLACK-Sol. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the death of Sol Kolack, retired Director of ADL's Regional Office in Boston. From 1947 to 1983 Sol led the fight against anti-Semitism, racism and bigotry in New England and implemented educational programs to promote tolerance and understandin
 SAMPSON-Henry A. The Medical Staff of NYU Downtown Hospital offers deep sympathy to the family of the late Dr. Henry A. Sampson, eminent member of Beekman Downtown Hospital for over 30 years. He passed away September 21st, 1998. We will miss him. Medical Staff NYU Downtown Hospital       
 SCHOEN-Donald R. The Governors and staff of Lawrence Hospital are deeply saddened by the death of our long time Governor, Don Schoen. He was a respected business and community leader and loved as a dear friend of the Hospital. His commitment to quality patient care and his contributions to 
 STEWART-Paul Rundio. On September 19, 1998. Beloved husband of Vivienne, loving father of Colin, Caitlin, Tamsyn, Campbell and Christopher, loving father-in-law of Robert and Grace and devoted grandfather of Jackson and Madeleine. His distinguished career in direct marketing included senior
 WECHSLER-Alan, 66, on September 17, in Phoenix, Arizona of a heart attack. A longtime resident of New York, he is survived by, and will be very much missed by his daughter, Bettye Connolly and son, Stephen Wechsler, both of Charlotte, N.C. and his brother and sister-in-law, Lawrence and Jan
 WINTER-Charles S. Died September 17, 1998. Survived by his loving wife, Esther Libbin, father Jackson Beck, brother Dorn Leslie, nieces and nephews. A kind, sweet and loving man. We will always miss you.       
 PETERSON-Louis S. 1923-1998. Friends of Lou Peterson will gather for a celebration of his life Friday, September 25, 1998, 2:30 PM, The Actors Studio Inc., 432 W. 44 Street, NY, NY. Please join us.       
 Terence A. McEwen, a former executive with London Records, a general director of the San Francisco Opera during the 1980's and a witty frequent panelist on the ''Texaco Opera Quiz,'' the intermission feature of the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Honolul
 William Albright, a composer, organist and pianist, died on Sept. 17 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 53. The cause was liver failure, said his agent, Karen McFarlane. Mr. Albright won special respect for his work in ragtime and organ music. These might seem quite dist
 Chet Hoff, who was born a decade before the American League was founded and pitched for the Yankees when they were known as the Highlanders, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 107 and had lived longer than anyone else who ever played major league baseball.   
 James Chittenden Dudley, an investor and geologist who was also active in education, died Sept. 16 in Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 77 and lived in Redding, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Dudley had been a managing partner of Dudley & Company, a
 James Fletcher, chairman of the South Shore Bank, a pioneering lender to some of the poorer neighborhoods in Chicago, died of complications of lymphoma on Sept. 16 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and a lifelong resident of the city. Mr. Fletcher was one of a group of 
 Lucio Battisti, a singer and songwriter who was the voice of Italians who came of age in the late 1960's and early 70's, died on Sept. 9 at a hospital in Milan. He was 55. The Associated Press said the cause was liver cancer. A fiercely private figure who had not made a publ
 BENNETT-Reynold, of New York City. He died while on vacation in Paris, at age 80, on July 29, 1998. Survived by loving wife Cynthia Bennett, as well as by Leigh and Reynold Kane Bennett, both children from a previous marriage. Also survived by sister Marjorie Bennett and niece Colby Bennett
 DREWES-William. Died at the age of 72, after a brief illness. Bill, a graduate of Columbia College and Cambridge University, went on to an illustrious career as a management consultant, lecturing and publishing two books on the subject. His true passion, however, was in pursuing the mystery
 EDMONDS - Edward Dana. Passed away untimely on Sept. 20. A resident of Boca Raton, Florida, Edward was a Lt. (j.g.) in the U.S. Navy having retired from the service after an automobile accident in 1982. A graduate of the University of South Carolina, Edward was an active participant in the 
 GRANBERY-E. Carleton. Of Old Quarry Road, Guilford, Conn. Died September 22, 1998 at his home. Husband of Diana Allyn Granbery. Father of Carleton A. Granbery of Stony Creek, CT, Joya G. Llano of Newport, RI, & Pamela Granbery of Borrego Springs, CA, brother of John Granbery of Salisbury, C
 KITAY-Victor. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Victor Kitay, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Betti, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 SCHOEN-Donald R. The Board of Trustees and the President of Westchester Community College join the Board of Directors of Westchester Community College Foundation in remembering the outstanding contributions and thoughtful manner of Donald R. Schoen as a Director of the Foundation Board. The
 Victor A. Coopersmith, a fashion entrepreneur who in July closed the company that made women's wool suits and other clothes designed by his wife, Andrea Jovine, drowned Sept. 9 while swimming in Lake Powell near Page, Ariz., the United States Park Service said. He was 51. Mr. Cooper
 William Whitney Ballard, professor emeritus of biology at Dartmouth College, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Norwich, Vt., in the same bed in which he was born 92 years earlier in Griswoldville, Mass. In between, Dr. Ballard seemed to do a little bit of everything, researching and p
 Albert V. Maniscalco, who was the Borough President of Staten Island during its dizzying shift from rural to urban borough, died on Sept. 2 at the Sisters of Charity Medical Center there. He was 90. Mr. Maniscalco, a lifelong politician who joined a Democratic Party club at the age 
 Ernst Rudolph Jaakson, the Ambassador from Estonia who maintained a consulate in New York after the Soviet Union absorbed the country, died on Sept. 4 in New York, the Estonian Consulate said. He was 93, and had been a diplomat for 75 years -- the longest-serving diplomat in the world, acco
 DOOLEY-Edward William, Sr. 82. Retired advertising executive and Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Milwaukee, Boston and New York, died September 17, 1998, following a heart attack at his home in Malibu, CA. He was VP, advertising and marketing, Citibank, N.A., from 
 GILL-Robert Lee. Age 87, died on Thursday, September 24, 1998, in New York City, from complications of a stroke. Survivors include his wife, Melanie Gill, and from his first marriage, a son, Peter T. Gill of Bronxville, NY, and a stepson, John D. Chapman of Fort Pierce, Fla., and two sister
 HOUSTON-Howard E., 87. Of Bloomfield, died on Monday, September 21st, 1998 at Duncaster. Husband of the late Frances (Crawford) Houston, he was born in Ryan, Iowa, and was a graduate of Columbia University. In Connecticut, Mr. Houston served from 1935-54 as the builder and first Executive D
 KAPLAN-Will. Died on September 23 after a two and a half month struggle following heart surgery on July 10. He was 89 years of age. Survivors include his wife of almost 20 years, Evelyn Rypins Kaplan and his nieces and nephews: Connie and Jules Kay, Charlotte and Paul Schwartz, Gladys and L
 KATZ-David, Dr. 72. Of West Orange, NJ, Wednesday, Sept. 23rd, 1998. Beloved husband of Sarah. Devoted father of Lynn Galatt of West Orange, NJ, Eli of Santa Barbara, CA, Bert of Bedminster, NJ & Ira of Far Hills, NJ. Cherished father-in-law of Beth, Gale and Andrea. Dear brother of Harry o
 OCHITILL-Samuel J. Born on November 12, 1909 in NYC, passed away on September 21, 1998 after the final stages of an acute illness. He was the cherished husband of Gertrude Lerner and the dearly loved father of Karyn and Herbert. He is also survived by his three grandchildren, Jackie, Sarah 
 RODRIGUEZ MOURELO-Ramon Died on September 23, 1998 from complications of cancer. Mr. Rodriguez, a native of O Incio in Galicia, Spain, was a businessman and civic leader in New York's Hispanic community. He came to New York in 1937 as a refugee of the Spanish civil war. He & his sister, Eva
 SARATH-Peter. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Peter Sarath, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Denise and children Brian and Lindsay. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary       
 William Piel Jr., a leading corporate lawyer of his time, died Sept. 13 at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Piel joined the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell in 1935 and became a partner in 1946. At his retirement in 1980 he was the firm's senior litigating partner. B
 Dr. Donald A. Pious, a University of Washington immunologist who advanced understanding of the immune system's responses to transplants and infection, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Seattle. He was 68. The cause was pancreatic cancer, family members said. Dr. Pious made impo
 James H. Lavenson, an advertising and marketing expert known for public speeches that were both hilarious and instructive, died Sept. 19 at  Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., following a stroke, his wife, Susan, said. He was 79. In 1974, Mr. Lavenson gained attention wh
 Jeffrey A. Moss, a writer and composer whose accomplishments included dreaming up the ''Sesame Street'' characters Cookie Monster and Oscar the Grouch, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Anne Boylan. Mr. Moss was 
 PRENNER-Sidney. 88. Passed away on Thursday September 10th after a long illness. He leaves his beloved wife Martha, three children and eight grandchildren, each of whom he was so very loving, caring and proud. He will be remembered in the hearts of his survivors.       
 PUTNAM-Peter Brock. Died peacefully in his sleep at his Princeton, N.J. home September 23, after a two year battle with lymphoma. The noted blind lecturer, author, teacher and fundraiser for non-profit organizations was 78 years old. He was born June 11, 1920, in Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia, t
 YABLOKOFF-Jack. Most beloved husband and best friend of Helen Schraub Yablokoff. Cherished and loving father and fatherin-law of Randy, Susan and Michael Minoff, Robin and Larry Kaufman. Adored grandfather of Matthew, Meredith, Erica, Amanda and Jared. Founder of Yablokoff's Kingsway Memori
 Archie M. Smith Jr., a Virginia winemaker who had the rare distinction of succeeding in a field where Thomas Jefferson failed, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 78. His son, Archie M. Smith 3d, said the cause was Lou Gehrig's disease -- amyotrophic lateral scler
 Brendan M. Jones, who was a former reporter for The New York Times, died Sept. 18 at Western Queens Community Hospital. Mr. Jones, a resident of Jackson Heights, was 85. The cause of death was pneumonia, said his wife, Anne Virginia McCormick Jones. Mr. Jones joined The New 
 Dr. Edward Christopher Whitmont, a Jungian psychoanalyst and homeopathic physician who introduced many Americans to the fundamentals of Jungian psychology through his writing and teaching, died on Monday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 85. The cause was cancer of the thymus, hi
 Joe Miller's pal was born to play soccer, and he played it with such flair that 80 years later Mr. Miller could raise the hairs on a listener's neck simply by describing his friend's powerful kick. By the time Mr. Miller, a Bronx native, got to know him in history class at the old H
 ALTSCHULER-Dr. Stanley, 86. Died on September 17th, 1998 in Sun City West, Arizona. Beloved husband for fifty years of Edith, cherished father of Judy Altschuler Goldstein and Ellen Altschuler Kirchner. He practiced medicine in Elmhurst, Queens. His kindness and generous spirit will be miss
 FISHER-David, whose maxims were published as ''The Human Relations Factor'' in 1990 and served as the themes for Waterways: Poetry in the Mainstream (1989-1990), will be missed by his publishers, BardPress and the Waterways Project of Ten Penny Players, Inc.       
 FUGLESTAD-Arne, 81. Died on September 13, 1998, in Sarasota, Florida. Born in Brooklyn, NY, Arne Fuglestad grew up in Staten Island, NY, and was graduated from Bucknell University in 1939. Entering the U.S. Navy in 1940, he remained for five years, serving in the Atlantic and Pacific theate
 GILL-Robert Lee. Age 87, died on Thursday, September 24, 1998, in New York City, from complications of a stroke. Survivors include his wife, Melanie Gill, and from his first marriage, a son, Peter T. Gill of Bronxville, NY, and a stepson, John D. Chapman of Fort Pierce, Fla., and two sister
 IGEL-Pery. In Sao Paulo, Brazil, on September 24. Husband of Ana Maria, father of Rogerio, Joyce, Marcia, the late Ernesto and Fabio. Beloved friend of Henry Schneider. A man of vision, vast accomplishiments and above all a great heart. He helped shape our lives with his love and caring. Ja
 MOSS-Jeffrey. We are devastated by the loss of our friend, colleague and mentor Jeff Moss. For 30 years his creativity, talent and integrity have been at the heart of Sesame Street. We take comfort in knowing that his spirit, his characters, his silliness and his songs will continue to deli
 YABLOKOFF-Jack. Most beloved husband and best friend of Helen Schraub Yablokoff. Cherished and loving father and fatherin-law of Randy, Susan and Michael Minoff, Robin and Larry Kaufman. Adored grandfather of Matthew, Meredith, Erica, Amanda and Jared. Founder of Yablokoff's Kingsway Memori
 Doak Walker, the 1948 Heisman Trophy winner and one of college football's legendary heroes, died yesterday at Routt Hospital in Steamboat Springs, Colo. He was 71. The cause was complications from the paralysis he suffered in a skiing accident last Jan. 30 in Steamboat Springs, wher
 FEINBERG-Joseph. On September 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Belle for 61 years. Loving father of Marty and Phyllis Feinberg. Cherished grandfather of Jack and Kallie. Loved, cherished and admired by all who knew him. Services Monday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.    
 FISHER-David. Devoted husband of the late Bettie Lou is survived by his children Barbara, Jane, David, Timothy, Padraic, Andrew; five grandchildren; and devoted companions Mitchell Grossman, Nora Knowles, and Ramzi Pio. He was 87. A well-respected attorney for over 65 years, he represented 
 KILBANE-Paul L. Left us suddenly and peacefully on September 26, 1998, after a courageous and dignified fight with cancer. He was 64. Loving father of Hilary Allinson (and her husband Edward) and Tara Dixon (and her husband Peter). Grandfather of Carter E. Allinson and Miles J. Dixon. Forme
 KUTSCHE-Erhart F. With profound sorrow, we mourn the passing on September 25 of Fred after a short illness, a devoted employee, colleague and friend for over 40 years. He will be greatly missed. Sincere condolences to Marie, his wife, who also is a colleague and dear friend. David Minkin Es
 WILKINS-Aaron (Archie). Beloved husband of Iris. Devoted and loving father of Fern and Lowell Kwiat, and Stuart and Laurie Wilkins. Cherished grandfather of Greg, Russell, Adam, Cory, Brian and Alyssa. Dear brother of Celia Mitchel. Services were held on Sunday, September 27, 1998. Intermen
 Peter Brock Putnam, a blind historian who spoke in public and wrote about blindness and was active in nonprofit organizations, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78. He had suffered from lymphoma for three years, said his son Brock. Peter Brock Putnam ha
 W. Frederick Laird, former chairman and chief executive officer of the Columbia Gas System, died of cancer Sept. 15 at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del. Mr. Laird, who lived in Greenville, Del., was 79. Born in London, Ohio, Mr. Laird graduated from Capital University in Columbus,
 Dr. John F. Prudden, a surgeon and researcher who used medicines made from the cartilage of sharks, reptiles and cows as well as the chitin of lobster or shrimp shells to help heal wounds and treat a range of diseases, died on Sept. 12 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount  Kisco, N.Y. 
 Lamar Crowson, an American pianist who, though little known in the United States, was regarded by many colleagues as one of the finest chamber musicians of his time, died on Aug. 25 in Johannesburg, where he lived. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr
 Minoru Niizuma, a sculptor and educator who taught at the Brooklyn Museum Art School and Columbia University, died on Sept. 5 at the University Hospital and Medical Center of Stony Brook on Long Island. He was 67 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, a family membe
 ABORN-Norman. The Directors and Staff of the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding extend heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed Board Member, Richard Aborn, and his family upon the death of his father, Norman. Georgette F. Bennett, Ph.D President       
 FISHER-David. Devoted husband of the late Bettie Lou is survived by his children Barbara, Jane, David, Timothy, Padraic, Andrew; five grandchildren; and devoted companions Mitchell Grossman, Nora Knowles, and Ramzi Pio. He was 87. A well-respected attorney for over 65 years, he represented 
 GILL-Robert Lee. Age 87, died on Thursday, September 24, 1998, in New York City, from complications of a stroke. Survivors include his wife, Melanie Gill, and from his first marriage, a son, Peter T. Gill of Bronxville, NY, and a stepson, John D. Chapman of Fort Pierce, Fla., and two sister
 HEYERT-Murray, age 86, died unexpectedly on September 8, 1998 in the company of his beloved wife Florence of almost 65 years. He is also mourned by his daughter Elizabeth Heyert and her husband Douglas Elliott, his brother Arthur Heyert, and his brother inlaw Edwin Horen and his wife Myra. 
 IGEL-Pery. In Sao Paulo, Brazil, on September 24. Husband of Ana Maria, father of Rogerio, Joyce, Marcia, the late Ernesto and Fabio. Beloved friend of Henry Schneider. A man of vision, vast accomplishments and above all a great heart. He helped shape our lives with his love and caring. Jac
 MANN-Irving. Dad/Irving, You were a most special father and devoted grandfather. You taught us all to be strong, independent, and hard-working, but also how to laugh and enjoy life. You and Mom/Nanni showed us the true meaning of love. During your fiftynine years together, your unending dev
 SERING-Clarito B. Age 61, on September 27th, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Maria Jerlin; a son, Clarito Jr., and two daughters, Claribelle and Candice, brother and sisters. The family will receive friends on Thursday and Friday, October 1st and 2nd, at 2-5PM and 7-10PM at Martin A. Glea
 SIEGFRIED-Bernard. On September 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Robert and Jonathan. Dear grandfather of Amanda, David, Jeremy, Matthew and Rachel. Services at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th Street, Thursday, October 1, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers a contribution 
 WILKINS-Archie. We are so saddened by the recent death of Archie Wilkins, most loved father of our dear friends, Fern and Lowell Kwiat & Laurie and Stuart Wilkins. We will never forget that twinkle in his eye, his incredible generosity, and his neverending sense of humor. We know that his g
 ZWERLING-Louis. At age 88, painter, poet, world-traveler, on September 25, 1998. He will be grievously missed by his wife, Harriet, and son, Milo, and mourned by his brother, Jeff Corey of Malibu, California, sister, Edith Siegel of New York City and many friends. Our love goes with you int
 SCHECHNER-Kenneth Steven. G-d blessed me deep and profound for 38 years I had a brother around. He showed me much of how a boy could live-he taught me everything of how a man does die. AI       
 Sam Locke, a writer of plays, books, theater sketches and television scripts whose roots hark back to the golden days of radio, died on Sept. 18 at a convalescent center in San Diego. He was 81. Mr. Locke's credits include scripts for such classic radio programs as ''Grand Central S
 Julian Allen, an illustrator best known for realistic visual essays on contemporary subjects like the Watergate scandal, the Israeli raid to free hostages at the airport in Entebbe, Uganda, and the gangs of the South Bronx, died on Monday at a hospice in Baltimore. He was 55 and lived in Ba
 FORGIONE-John L. On Sept. 28, 1998, at age 75, of Astoria, Queens, after a courageous battle with cancer. Accomplished painter, sculptor, film maker, photographer & swimmer. John will always be known for his generous nature, vigorous life style, and someone that ''spoke his mind.'' As a gra
 KAUFMAN-Elaine Benson. Of Bridgehampton, NY, on September 28, 1998. Beloved sister of Steven Klebanoff. A life of fulfillment long to be remembered by his family, Joy, Peter, Jennifer, and William Lerner.       
 KAUFMAN-Victor Charles, 82. Retired Detective/Lieutenant NYPD. Former Com. Officer, Brooklyn South Homicide Squad. USMC, WWII, serving Pacific area and China. Saint John's University Law School, received an LLB. Founder and President of NY Lie Detection Labs. Charter Member of American Poly
 LAKOW-Monroe. October 18, 1899-September 26, 1998. Survived by his wife Ruth Cedar Lakow, his daughter Ellen Lakow Georgiou and granddaughter Alexis. Services were held September 28th, Gramercy Park Chapel.       
 MANN-Irving. To our dear friends Meryl and Michael and their children Betsy and Adam, we extend our most heartfelt sympathy on the loss of your beloved father and grandfather. May the strength of your love for him be a source of comfort to you all. Diane, Frank, Danni and Ricki Lederman    
 MOSS-Jeff. The entire Browning School community mourns the loss of Jeff Moss, class of '59 alumnus trustee and friend. He was always the star performer at our school assemblies. ''Rubber Ducky, you're the one.'' Stephen M. Clement, III Headmaster Allan L. Gropper President, Board of Trustee
 MOSS-Jeffrey. We are devastated by the loss of our friend, colleague and mentor Jeff Moss. For 30 years his creativity, talent and integrity have been at the heart of Sesame Street. We take comfort in knowing that his spirit, his characters, his silliness and his songs will continue to deli
 SIEGFRIED-Bernard. On September 28, 1998. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Robert and Jonathan. Dear grandfather of Amanda, David, Jeremy, Matthew and Rachel. Services at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th Street, Thursday, October 1, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers a contribution 
 Philip F. Cohen, the founder and former president of Oceana Publications Inc., a publishing house that specializes in international law, died on Aug. 29 at Dobbs Ferry Community Hospital in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Dobbs Ferry. Mr. Cohen was born in Manchester, Engla
 Tom Bradley, the sharecropper's son who became Mayor of Los Angeles and presided over the city for two decades of explosive growth and change, died yesterday at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in West Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, hospital officials said
