 Paul Williams, a saxophonist and bandleader whose 1948 recording of ''The Hucklebuck'' was an important precursor of rock 'n' roll, died on Sept. 14 in New York City. He was 87. Released early in 1949 on the Newark-based Savoy label, ''The Hucklebuck'' (it was hyphenated on the orig
 Sir John Rennie, a British administrator who struggled to keep the United Nations aid program for Palestinian refugees afloat in the 1960's and 70's, when the Middle East was scarred by war and civil conflict, died on Aug. 12 in London, the United Nations recently announced. He was 
 Arthur Lord, a television journalist who covered world events for NBC News for more than three decades, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles, he was 60. His family did not disclose a cause of death. Mr. Lord produced an Emmy-winning new
 Dr. Eugene T. Reed, a Long Island dentist who was a militant leader of the civil rights movement in the 1950's and 60's -- staring down rifle-bearing farmers in Mississippi and leading protests in New York -- died last Wednesday at his home in Amityville, N.Y. He was 79. The cause w
 Two years ago, as Frank Lautenberg was preparing to trade in his Senate seat for retirement, he was already expressing regret for his decision not to run for re-election after 18 years in Washington. ''It feels lousy,'' he said at the time. ''I'm going to miss this place.'' Apparent
 Dr. Thomas B. Turner, an authority on infectious diseases and microbiology who led a vast expansion at the Johns Hopkins University medical school, died on Sept. 22 in Baltimore. He was 100. Dr. Turner spent three-quarters of his life and nearly all of his career at the medical scho
 Walter H. Annenberg, the philanthropist, art collector and former ambassador to Britain who at one time presided over a vast communications empire that included TV Guide and The Philadelphia Inquirer, died yesterday in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 94 and had homes there and in Rancho Mirage, Calif
 Ellis Larkins, a jazz pianist known for his understated elegance as an improviser and his sensitivity as an accompanist, died on Sunday at Maryland General Hospital in Baltimore. He was 79 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Crystal, said. Mr. Larkins 
 Hartland deM. Molson, a former owner of the Montreal Canadiens hockey team and an heir of one of Canada's oldest and most prominent business families, died on Saturday in Montreal. He was 95 and lived in Montreal. The Molson name has been synonymous with beer for more than two centu
 James B. Chapin, a political analyst and historian who advised Mark Green when Mr. Green was public advocate for New York City, died on Monday in Andover, N.J., at a Chapin family residence. He was 60 and lived in Queens. The cause was a heart attack, according to United Press Inter
 James John Peters, the executive director of the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association and a national voice to further research and treatment of spinal cord injuries, died Sept. 6 at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Huntington Station, N.Y. T
 Bruce Paltrow, a producer and director who strove to incorporate social themes into his television series, most notably ''The White Shadow'' and ''St. Elsewhere,'' died yesterday at a hospital in Rome while there to celebrate the 30th birthday of his Oscar-winning daughter, Gwyneth Paltrow.
 John Weitz, the fashion designer known for licensing a variety of products under his name and for his second career as a novelist and historian, died yesterday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his son Christopher said. Mr. Weitz cheerfully 
 Lorian L. Marlantes, president of Rockefeller Group International, a corporation with interests in commercial real estate and telecommunications, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side after a long illness. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn. The famil
 Norman O. Brown, an erudite and spectacularly playful philosopher whose attempt to psychoanalyze nothing less than history itself entranced intellectuals, beguiled New Age seekers and sold many books, died on Wednesday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 89. His son Thomas N. Brown said he
 Chuck Howard, one of the adventurous young designers who put a distinctly non-Parisian accent on American clothing in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at a hospital in Albuquerque. He was 75 and most recently lived in Santa Fe and on the island of Saba, in the Netherlands Antilles.      
 Justice Richard A. Goldberg, an active justice on the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died on Monday at a hospital in Warwick, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Richard Alan Goldberg was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from City Colle
 Ronald J. Moss, a former advertising executive who was New York State commerce commissioner under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died Sept. 3 at a nursing home in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to his former wife, Sylvia Moss, who added that Mr. Moss h
 Turk Van Lake, a jazz guitarist and arranger of the swing era, died on Sept. 1 at a Staten Island nursing home. He was 84. Under his original name, Vanig Hovsepian, he was a classical composer. In the 1940's, he began to tour as an arranger, composer and guitarist with bands
 Ralph Lee, a celebrated knight-errant of the British road, who built his own vacation trailer in 1931 and went on to pull it and its 10 successors a distance equal to 20 trips around the world, died on Sept. 18 in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, England. He was 99. In 1999, Queen Eliza
 Prince Claus von Amsberg, husband of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, died tonight in Amsterdam after a long illness. He was 76. The Dutch prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, said the cause of death was pneumonia. The prince's health had declined in recent years, owing to Parkins
 Zorach Warhaftig, a rabbi from Byelorussia who persuaded a Japanese diplomat to defy his government's orders and help save several thousand Jews during World War II, died on Sept. 26 in Jerusalem. He was 96. Rabbi Warhaftig also became one of the 37 people who signed Israel's Declar
 W. S. Raines, a retired businessman and investor in real estate in Alabama and Florida, died yesterday at his home in Birmingham. He was 95. The son of Hiram Howell and Mary Jane Raines, Wattie Simeon Raines was born on the family farm in the hills near Curry, Ala., on Sept. 21, 190
 Zvi Kolitz, a film and theatrical producer and a writer whose short story ''Yosl Rakover Talks to God'' became a classic of Holocaust literature, died Sept. 29 in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. While living in Israel in the early 1950's, Mr. Kolitz was a co-writer and 
 The Rev. Anthony C. Campbell, a Baptist minister who gained international acclaim for his powerful oratory and his pluralistic message, died on Sept. 27 at a Boston hospital, three days after a stroke, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Boston. Mr. Campbell grew up steeped in t
 Richard T. Foster, an architect who collaborated with Philip Johnson in reshaping the New York University campus in the 1970's, died on Sept. 13 in Danbury, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Wilton, Conn., in a revolving house of his own design. A round house was no departure for Mr. Fos
 Anthony Mazzocchi, a longtime union official who was a pioneer in the occupational safety movement and the founder of the six-year-old Labor Party, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Labor Party officials said. In his year
 Daniel Deverell Perry, a Long Island architect who created the marble temple of art housing the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass., died Oct. 2 in Woodstock, N.Y. A longtime resident of Port Jefferson, N.Y., he was 97. He was born in Buffalo and was a 1
 David B. Charnay, former chief executive of Four Star Television Productions, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Calabasas, Calif. Mr. Charnay was also president and chairman of Four Star, which both produced and distributed many television prog
 Robert H. Fust, who was executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities for two decades and built it into an effective advocate for the state's cities and towns, died on Oct. 4 at a hospice in Denver. He was 78. The cause was cancer, league officials said.       
 Albert A. Walsh, a top New York housing official in the Rockefeller and Lindsay administrations who helped bring public and private interests together to build cheaper housing, died yesterday in Red Bank, N.J. He was 74 and lived in Red Bank. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter 
 Chuck Rayner, the Hall of Fame goaltender who starred for usually lackluster Rangers teams in the decade after World War II, died last Sunday at his home in Langley, British Columbia. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Playing 10 seasons in the Nationa
 Ben Eastman, who became the world's fastest quarter-mile and half-mile runner 70 years ago only to meet frustration in the Olympics, died Sunday at his home in Hotchkiss, Colo. He was 91. From 1932 to 1934, Eastman set the world records outdoors at 400 meters, 440 yards, 500 meters,
 Charles Guggenheim, an Oscar-winning documentary filmmaker who focused on American life and who was an early producer of advertisements for political campaigns, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. In a career of nearl
 Jim Seymour, an early and influential technical writer who explained the benefits and headaches of personal computers for two decades in enthusiasts' periodicals like PC Week and PC Magazine, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 60. The cause was complications fro
 Bernard H. Ridder Jr., a third-generation newspaper executive who spent the years after college moving westward to help manage Ridder Publications' new properties and eventually rose to be the company's president and chief executive, died on Thursday at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 
 Edward H. Tuck, a New York lawyer who specialized in international business and helped advance the development and application of international business law, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Bryan Close, a spokesman for Shearman & Sterli
 Eric Hoskins, the rapper known as Money Ray who performed with the Cold Crush Brothers, an influential early rap group, died on Oct. 3 in the Bronx. He was 38. The cause was liver cancer, his sister, Deborah Hoskins-Simmons, said. Mr. Hoskins joined the Cold Crush Brothers i
 L. H. Fountain, a former North Carolina congressman whose investigation first exposed the scope of the Billie Sol Estes scandal of the 1960's, died on Thursday at a retirement home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 89 and a resident of Tarboro, N.C. Mr. Fountain, a lawyer and conservative Dem
 Frank X. Barron, a psychologist whose work on creativity influenced a generation of researchers, died on Oct. 6 in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications from a fall, his family said. Psychology has become increasingly specialized over the years, but Dr. B
 Eddie Hausner, a photographer for The New York Times whose subjects over a five-decade career ranged from poor people in the South to Joe Namath with a white llama rug, died on Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 76 and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J. The cause was a stro
 James Searles, who elevated the lightning-fast form of checkers played mainly by black men in barbershops, parks and sidewalks to the province of an exclusive if distinctly clamorous society -- the Brooklyn Elite Pool Checker Club -- died in Brooklyn on Oct. 5. He was 90. A retired 
 Stephen E. Ambrose, the military historian and biographer whose books recounting the combat feats of American soldiers and airmen fueled a national fascination with the generation that fought World War II, died yesterday at a hospital in Bay St. Louis, Miss. Mr. Ambrose, who lived in Bay St
 Alphonse Chapanis, a founder of ergonomics, a branch of engineering that considers product and workplace design from the physical point of view of the actual user, died on Oct. 4 in Baltimore. He was 85. Dr. Chapanis, a Johns Hopkins University professor who received a Ph.D. in psyc
 Walter Weiss, the legendary maître d'hôtel at the ''21'' Club, who juggled tycoons, movie stars and politicians to answer a terrifying question -- who gets the best table and who goes to Siberia? -- died on Saturday in White Plains. He was 80 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The c
 Bill Green, a United States representative from Manhattan who served for seven terms and was dedicated to the liberal Republican tradition of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Senator Jacob K. Javits, died on Monday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 72. The cause was liver canc
 Keith W. Uncapher, an engineer who oversaw seminal work in computer networking, especially on the underpinnings of what became the Internet, died last Thursday. He was 80 and lived in the Playa del Rey district of Los Angeles. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while flying fr
 Seymour Rexite, a onetime matinee idol of the Yiddish theater and radio, died on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 91, his nephew Mel Friedman said. A high, sweet tenor, Mr. Rexite had a career arc that swung from singing for Calvin Coolidge to playing host to a televi
 Dr. Ronald A. Malt, a Boston surgeon who made medical history 40 years ago when he oversaw the first successful reattachment of a human limb, died on Oct. 5 in Wellesley, Mass. He was 70. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Dr. Malt was 30 
 Victor E. Botnick, who at age 32 was one of Mayor Edward I. Koch's most influential aides and head of the New York City's hospital system, died yesterday in an ambulance on the way to a hospital in Yonkers. He was 47. He had a seizure at his home in Yonkers and died of gastrointesti
 Allen Walker Read, a playful prospector of the American tongue who hunted down the source of words like Dixie and Podunk, phrases like the almighty dollar and, most famous of all, those ubiquitous initials, O.K., died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. A longtime Engl
 Dr. George A. Perera, a former professor of medicine at Columbia University known for his work on high blood pressure and for his antiwar efforts, died on Sept. 14 at a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 90. A former associate dean of the medical school, Dr. Perera e
 Yaacov Farkas, who under the pen name Zeev became the dean of political cartoonists in Israel, died on Tuesday in a hospital near Tel Aviv. He was 79. When Mr. Farkas, whose pen name means wolf in Hebrew, won the Israel Prize for Journalism in 1993, the judges declared that he had '
 Raymond T. McNally, a black-caped scholar who combined a childhood fascination with horror films with his study of Eastern Europe to link the fictional Dracula with monstrous historical figures, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his daughte
 Jerome M. Rosow, the founder and chairman of the Work in America Institute, a nonprofit research organization that focuses on productivity and workplace issues, died on Oct. 11 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 82 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. As assistant secretary o
 Manuel Alvarez Bravo, Mexico's greatest photographer and a world master of his art, died on Saturday at his home in Mexico City. He was 100. Along with the painters Diego Rivera and José Clemente Orozco and other Mexican cultural icons, Mr. Alvarez Bravo was a leader of the artisti
 Mason Hammond, an authority on Latin and the history of Rome and its empire, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 99. Some writings by Professor Hammond, formerly of Harvard, have proven highly durable. His book ''City State and World State'' (Biblo & Tannen) is st
 Mel Harder, the Cleveland Indians right-hander who was among the top pitchers of the 1930's and later became a renowned pitching coach in a major league career spanning 42 seasons, died yesterday at his home in Chardon, Ohio. He was 93. When the Indians played their first game at Mu
 Denison Kitchel, a close friend and the most influential adviser to Barry M. Goldwater in his presidential campaign in 1964, died on Oct. 10 at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 94. Mr. Kitchel had a deep influence on foreign policy in the campaign. He encouraged Mr. Goldwater's 
 Norbert Schultze, the German composer of the melancholy ''Lili Marleen,'' the informal infantryman's anthem that became the best-known song of World War II, died on Oct. 14 in Bad Tölz, Bavaria. He was 91. Inspired by a German soldier's poem written during World War I and promptly 
 Manfred Ewald, the head of sport in East Germany and a chief architect of its state-sponsored system of providing athletes with illicit performance-enhancing drugs, died Monday in Damsdorf, Germany, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was complications of a lung infection, a former c
 Dr. Peter G. Bergmann, a physicist who worked with Albert Einstein and played a leading role in the advancement of Einstein's theories in the years after World War II, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 87. As a professor at Syracuse University from 1947 to 1982, Dr. Bergmann taugh
 Warren E. Fenzi, a former president of the mining and manufacturing company Phelps Dodge, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Fenzi had a 43-year career in copper mining, beginning in 1937 when he joined Phelps Dodge. He helped develop the giant open p
 Derek Bell, the versatile harpist with the Chieftains, one of the most celebrated Irish traditional bands, died on Oct. 15 in his hotel in Phoenix. He was 66 and lived in Belfast. The cause was hypertensive cardiomyopathy, a heart disorder, his agent, Michelle Findlay, said.        
 Fred Troller, a design director who helped popularize a minimalist typographic style called Swiss New Typography in the United States in the 1960's, died on Oct. 11 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his wife, Beatrice, said. An alternative to the deco
 Jesse L. Greenstein, who helped explain astronomical exotica like unimaginably bright beacons at the edge of the universe and hot cinders of burned-out stars, died on Monday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Greenstein also mentored a generation of astronomers, sometimes referring t
 Richard Helms, a former director of central intelligence who defiantly guarded some of the darkest secrets of the cold war, died of multiple myeloma today. He was 89. An urbane and dashing spymaster, Mr. Helms began his career with a reputation as a truth teller and became a favorit
 Adolph Green, the playwright, performer and lyricist who in a six-decade collaboration with Betty Comden was co-author of such hit Broadway musicals as ''On the Town,'' ''Wonderful Town'' and ''Bells Are Ringing'' and screenplays for ''Singin' in the Rain'' and ''The Band Wagon,'' died yest
 Alfred Lerner, who grew up behind his immigrant family's luncheonette in Brooklyn, rose to become a billionaire investor in banking and real estate, then revived one of sport's best-known names as owner of pro football's Cleveland Browns expansion franchise, died Wednesday in Cleveland. Mr.
 Harry Hay, who founded a secret organization six decades ago that proved to be the catalyst for the American gay rights movement, died early Thursday morning at his home in San Francisco. He was 90. Although little known in the broader national culture over the years, Mr. Hay's cont
 Paul Wellstone often seemed out of step. He called himself a liberal when many used that word as a slur. He voted against the Persian Gulf war in his first year in the Senate, and this month opposed using force against Iraq. Senator Wellstone, 58, who died in a plane crash today whi
 Richard Harris, the voluble Irishman who starred as King Arthur in the film version of ''Camelot'' and more recently played Albus Dumbledore, the wise, magical and benign headmaster in the first Harry Potter movie and its forthcoming sequel, died yesterday in London. He was 72. He l
 Winton M. Blount, the last postmaster general to serve in a president's cabinet and the first chairman of the Postal Service, which he helped create, died on Thursday at his second home in Highlands, N.C. He was 81. The cause was a long illness, said Joe McInnes, the executive direc
 Kenneth Johnson, a cat burglar and holdup man who had a jailhouse conversion after reading Jean-Paul Sartre and transformed himself into a beloved teacher of inmates on Rikers Island, died last Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 49. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
 Dr. Milton Terris, who founded the National Association for Public Health Policy and the Society for Epidemiological Research, died on Oct. 3 at his home in South Burlington, Vt. He was 87. Dr. Terris was a past president of both organizations. He also founded the Journal of Public 
 Msgr. James J. Murray, the executive director of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York from 1973 to 2000, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 76. Monsignor Murray was ordained by Cardinal Francis Spellman in 1956. He was secretary to Cardinal Terence Cooke from 1969
 Marvin A. Krauss, one of Broadway's leading general managers, whose career spanned more than four decades and nearly 100 shows, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was a bacterial infection, said his daughter Robin Plevener. A tough negotiator and natty dresse
 Thomas B. Ross, a journalist and best-selling author of books on military intelligence who later became the spokesman for the Pentagon in the Carter administration, died Thursday at Eastern Long Island Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan and Shelter Island Heights, N.Y. The c
 Christopher B. Sheldon, whose 92-foot twin-masted sailing ship Albatross sank in a freak storm in 1961, a disaster that inspired the 1996 movie ''White Squall,'' died on Oct. 5 in Stamford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in Norwalk, Conn. The cause was pancreatic cancer, Anne Ramsey, his
 Dr. Edward Joseph Mortola, who presided as Pace grew from a small downtown Manhattan business school into one of the country's largest independent universities, died on Oct. 21 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 85. Dr. Mortola spent nearly his entire career at Pace. He joined Pace Ins
 Dr. Per Bak, an intellectually pugnacious physicist who sought to understand how complexity arises in the world, died on Oct. 16 in Copenhagen. He was 54. The cause was complications of a stem-cell transplant, given as treatment for a serious blood disorder, friends and family membe
 R. Gordon Hoxie, an educator and scholar of the presidency who had a brief, stormy tenure as chancellor of Long Island University in the late 1960's, died last Wednesday at his home in Oyster Bay Cove, on Long Island. He was 83. A dispute between Dr. Hoxie and the university's stude
 Tom Dowd, an innovative recording engineer and producer who made noted albums with John Coltrane, Ornette Coleman, Otis Redding, Eric Clapton, the Allman Brothers and many other musicians, died on Sunday in Aventura, Fla., near Miami. He was 77 and had lived until recently in Miami.        
 Werner Eberlein, a German who spent nearly eight years in the Siberian gulag under Stalin, and later, after an amnesty, rose to become Nikita S. Khrushchev's interpreter at the height of the cold war, died Oct. 11 in Berlin, German newspapers reported this week. He was 82. Mr. Eberl
 William F. Treiber, a longtime senior official of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Bloomfield, Conn., according to a spokeswoman for the bank. He was 94. Mr. Treiber joined the bank in 1934 and was its No. 2 official, or first vice president, from
 Chang-Lin Tien, the chancellor of the University of California from 1990 to 1997 and an outspoken advocate of affirmative action, died on Tuesday at the Kaiser Permanente hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 67 and lived in Hillsborough, Calif. Dr. Tien learned in 2000 that he ha
 Gen. Jacques Massu, a soldier who late in life came to deplore and regret France's use of torture during his triumphant direction of the Battle of Algiers in 1957, died on Saturday at his home in Conflans-sur-Loing in the Loiret region of France. He was 94. A highly decorated office
 Dr. Roy Hertz, who won an Albert Lasker Medical Research Award in 1972 for an early and remarkably effective drug treatment for a cancerous tumor, died on Monday at his home in Hollywood, Md. He was 93. Dr. Hertz and a co-researcher, Dr. Min Chiu Li, were cited for finding a treatme
 Siegfried Unseld, the head of the major German publishing house Suhrkamp Verlag and the man considered to be Germany's leading literary publisher, died at home in Frankfurt-am-Main on Saturday. He was 78, and had been suffering from the effects of a stroke. During the decades he spe
