 E. Fay Jones, an architect whose organically sensitive designs for houses, chapels and churches drew on early training with his mentor Frank Lloyd Wright, died on Monday at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 83. The cause was heart and lung failure, said his wife, Mary Elizabeth. He also
 Larry Desmedt, a New York-based custom motorcycle builder and biker better known nationally as Indian Larry, died on Monday in Charlotte, N.C., of injuries he suffered doing a stunt on Saturday at an appearance there. He was 55 and lived in the East Village. His death was announced 
 BERNSTEIN--Harold, 75, of Hillsdale, N.J. died Saturday, August 28, 2004. He is survived by his wife Ruth, son Clifford and his wife Shinee, daughter Nancy and three adored grandchildren Eli, Emma and Reuben. He was predeceased by his son Richard and daughter-in-law K.J. as well as his brot
 BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. On August 30 at 100 years of age. Husband of the late Anita M. Survived by his children Elaine, Paul and Anne. Daughter - in - law Barbara. Grandchildren Erika Bernstein-Kelble, Jeremy and Matthew Bernstein, Jeff Kelble, Julia Gruenewald-Bernstein. Born in Brooklyn in 1
 CALIGOR--Leopold and Judith. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the sudden and untimely deaths of our esteemed graduate, Leopold Caligor, Ph.D. and our distinguished colleague, Judith Caligor, Ph.D. Dr. Leopold Caligor became a faculty member at White in 19
 FUIKS--Lewis ''Jack'' J. 85, a resident of Dorset, VT and Vero Beach, FL. Formerly of Darien, CT. Died August 30. He was Vice President and Creative Supervisor at Interpublic Group Co's. Services are private. Memorial gifts may be made to Hospice VNA c/o Brewster Funeral Service, PO Box 885
 KIMBALL--William Maltby. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, August 25 at the age of 81. He was born in Atlanta, GA, on September 19, 1922, and grew up in Buffalo, NY. He graduated from Colgate University and then served in the U.S. Army Infantry in combat in Europe during WWII. He r
 LEHMANN--Fritz P. On August 30, 2004. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. All who knew him loved and respected him as a person of modesty, humility & dignity.       
 RAPPAPORT -- Robert G. Formerly of Long Beach, NY, died suddenly at home in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved son of Frances, loving brother of Mort (Karen), Steven (Judy) and Donald and adored uncle of Marcy, Mandy and Peter. His passing leaves a void in the hearts of all who knew him. He will be
 ROCKMAKER--Gordon, 77, of Freehold Township, NJ, died Thursday, August 26, at home. He was born in Brooklyn and resided there before moving to Freehold 30 years ago. He worked as an editorin-chief for McGraw-Hill Publishing Company for 15 years, retiring in 1990. He was predeceased by his d
 SACKS--David G. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of David G. Sacks, a beloved leader and friend. Respected for his guidance and wisdom, David served as president of UJAFederation from 1989 to 1992. As a leader wit
 SLATER--Jerome. Age 85 of Longboat Key, FL died August 28, 2004 in Sarasota, FL. He was born in NY, NY and was a WWII veteran serving in the U.S. Army. He leaves his beloved wife Lynne, loving daughter Amy, son-in-law Mark and his adored and adoring grandson, Peter.       
 VONK--Hans. IMG Artists mourns the untimely passing of Hans Vonk, a man of superb artistry and uncompromising integrity, keen intellect, wit and devotion. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, especially his beloved and loving wife, Jessie. Barrett Wissman, Chairman Edna Landau, Man
 Carl E. Morris, a former newspaper reporter and editor who then held several influential posts as an advocate for hiring black journalists, died Friday at his home in Reston, Va. He was 73. The cause was complications from heart surgery, his wife, Kelda, said. In 1984, he be
 Frank Jefferson Horton, a Rockefeller Republican from Rochester and the former dean of New York's Congressional delegation, died on Monday at a hospital in Winchester, Va. He was 84 and lived in Bentonville, Va. The cause was a stroke, said his son Frank. Representative Hort
 BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. Bernstein Real Estate both mourns the loss and honors the life of our founder. A man of generosity and compassion. His contribution to the real estate community was a unique mixture of business and friendship. He was a gentleman who practiced his profession with conscie
 KALIKOFF -- Stanley. Died peacefully on August 31, 2004, at age 80, of Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of the late Elaine Bierman Kalikoff, father of Beth and Hedy, grandfather of Sylvie, Eva and Natalie, brother of the late Annette Kalikoff Picard, uncle to Lawrence, David and Robert 
 LIPKA--Morris. On September 1 at 96 years of age in Tamarac, FL. Formerly of White Plains. Husband of the late Genesse Levine Lipka and the late Sara Weiss Lipka. Survived by his sons, Leonard of Alexandria, VA, Kenneth of Boca Raton, FL, and Robert of Weston, CT. Affectionately known as ''
 MORAN--Joseph J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph J. Moran, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 RAPPAPORT -- Robert G. Formerly of Long Beach, NY, died suddenly at home in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved son of Frances, loving brother of Mort (Karen), Steven (Judy) and Donald and adored uncle of Marcy, Mandy and Peter. His passing leaves a void in the hearts of all who knew him. He will be
 SACKS--David G. The Jewish Outreach Institute mourns the passing of its former chairman. David was instrumental in helping to solidify the Institute's role in transforming research into practice, helping to pave the way for hundreds of thousands of interfaith families and their children to 
 Johnny Bragg, the leader of the Prisonaires, a singing group of Tennessee State Penitentiary inmates whose R&B music helped start Sam Phillips's Sun Records and influenced Elvis Presley, died here on Wednesday. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Misti Bragg, told The Ass
 BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel deeply mourns the passing of our Founding Board Member, Treasurer Emeritus, generous benefactor and spirited leader. Patron and Founder of the Sidney and Anita Bernstein Library on the campus in Ramat Gan, Israel, he 
 HANDELMAN--Walter. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr., Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 KALIKOFF -- Stanley. Died peacefully on August 31, 2004, at age 80, of Parkinson's Disease. Beloved husband of the late Elaine Bierman Kalikoff, father of Beth and Hedy, grandfather of Sylvie, Eva and Natalie, brother of the late Annette Kalikoff Picard, uncle to Lawrence, David and Robert 
 KAUFMAN -- David. Died peacefully on his boat in Florida, on September 2, 2004. Beloved husband of Michele and the late Lesley. Devoted father of Jody Bartman, Larry Kaufman and Wendy Talerman, and father-in-law of Michael Bartman, Stacey Kaufman and Steven Talerman. Dear son-in-law of Rene
 LIPKA--Morris. On September 1 at 96 years of age in Tamarac, FL. Formerly of White Plains. Husband of the late Genesse Levine Lipka and the late Sara Weiss Lipka. Survived by his sons, Leonard of Alexandria, VA, Kenneth of Boca Raton, FL, and Robert of Weston, CT. Affectionately known as ''
 SACKS--David. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the passing of David Sacks, husband of Marcella Rosen, esteemed member of JCRC's Board of Directors. May the Sacks and Rosen families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Matthew J. Maryles, Pres. Mich
 SHOULSON--Sonia. The Yeshiva University and Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family mourn the passing of the beloved mother of Bruce D. Shoulson, devoted member of our RIETS Board of Trustees. In honor of his parents, Bruce and his wife, Robyn, established the Rabbi I. Harry and So
 Dr. Donald B. Effler, the leader of a team of surgeons at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio that helped develop and refine heart surgery, died on Aug. 24 in Jamesville, N.Y. He was 89. He died in a nursing home, his wife, Joanna, said. In 1956, as chief of the department of thora
 Herbert H. Haft, a combative Washington pharmacist who pioneered discount pricing in drugstores but later became more widely known for aggressive financial maneuvering and a bitter family legal battle for control of a business empire, died Wednesday in a Washington hospital. He was 84.     
 HANDELMAN--Walter in his 68th year on September 2. He was beloved by wife, Marlene, sons, Marc and Matthew, and grandchildren Kara Pauline and Miles Alex Jake. Also survived by his beloved sister-in-law, Maxine Miller, and sister, Shirley Pincus of Queens. Funeral services will be held at R
 HEKIMIAN--Leon J., M.D., 86, died September 1, of laryngeal cancer. In private psychiatric practice since 1956, he was also assistant professor of psychiatry at NYU School of Medicine and coauthor of many research papers on drug effects. He also owned and bred racehorses for many years. He 
 HIGHTOWER--Keith. Of Madison, NJ on Thursday, September 2, 2004. Beloved husband of Barbara (nee Romak), loving father of Sean, Brian, Kim and Kerry. Devoted son of Sully and Connie Hightower and dear brother of Dr. Martin Hightower and Mrs. Devie Shevlin. Relatives and friends are invited 
 ROGERS--Harry Peter. Beloved husband of Louise G. Rogers. Died Thursday evening in New York City from complications of a stroke. He was 90 years old. He served as a Lieutenant in the Navy during World War II and had retired from Con Edison in 1979 after serving as a Mechanical Engineer for 
 WIND--Rabbi Leon. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with deep sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Temple Beth Sholom of Manchester, CT. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 Dr. Selig Neubardt, a Westchester obstetrician and gynecologist and an author who was a prominent early advocate for birth control and safe abortion, died on Aug. 24 in White Plains. He was 78 and lived in New Rochelle. The cause was pneumonia, said a son, Dr. Seth Neubardt, a spina
 COHEN--James. Of Richmond, VA. Born January 26, 1916. Husband to the late Ruth Newman Cohen. Father to Karl and Penny Cohen, Marcia Penn and Leivy Smolar, Jeffrey and Linda Cohen. Blessed with 18 adoring grandchildren and 14 loving great-grandchildren. Along with his late brothers, Ben and 
 DUTCHIN--Desmond, died on August 30, 2004, at age 71, at his home in East Elmhurst, Queens. Beloved husband of Eunice Dutchin, father of Vanessa, Desmond Jr., and Darren. Grandfather of Kaitlyn and Jennifer. Brother of Lucious, Winston, Oliver, Emelda, Martin, Rhona and Salomon. Father-in-l
 FEINMAN--Steven Charles. Died unexpectedly August 25th, 2004. Beloved son of Judith and Bernard, brother to Philip (Marcy), Paul, Fran Beilinson (Jerry), uncle to Jaime, Sarah, Jason, Rebecca and Hannah. Partner to Pablo. Predeceased by his brother David (Sylvia).       
 HEWINS--Robert Dana. Died peacefully in Bellevue, WA, on September 1, 2004, at age 80. Beloved father of Genevieve Hewins Swanson of Cedar Knolls, NJ, Ward Dana Hewins of Boston, MA, and Robert Theodore Hewins of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Beloved grandfather of Chloe Jane Hewins and Rober
 HIGHTOWER--Keith. Of Madison, NJ on Thursday, September 2, 2004. Beloved husband of Barbara (nee Romak), loving father of Sean, Brian, Kim and Kerry. Devoted son of Sully and Connie Hightower and dear brother of Dr. Martin Hightower and Mrs. Devie Shevlin. Relatives and friends are invited 
 KNOWLTON--Jonathan. Artist. February 22, 1937-August 19, 2004. Retired professor of Fine Arts, University of Alberta, passed away in his 67th year. He will be sadly missed by his son Christopher and wife Lissette, daughter Katherine and husband Matthew Soares, granddaughter Natalia, brother
 OLFORD--Dr. Stephen F., a champion of expository preaching and a mentor to many evangelical Christian leaders, died August 29th at age 86. He was pastor emeritus of Calvary Baptist Church in New York, where he served as senior minister from 1959-1973. His influence upon thousands of pastors
 ROGERS--Harry Peter. Beloved husband of Louise G. Rogers. Died Thursday evening in New York City from complications of a stroke. He was 90 years old. He served as a Lieutenant in the Navy during World War II and had retired from Con Edison in 1979 after serving as a Mechanical Engineer for 
 SACKS--David G. The children of David Sacks mourn their father, a giant in the New York philanthropic and business communities. A graduate of Columbia College and Columbia Law School he was a retired partner of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, served as Chief Administrative Officer of Lehman Br
 WOLLY--Seymour, 86, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Farmingdale and Huntington, NY, and Rockville, MD, died September 3, 2004. Beloved husband for 62 years of Ida (Gillman), father of Michael and Marcia, grandfather of Peter, Mark, and Brian, father-in-law of Valentine (Nazarian), and unc
 YEUNG--Winston C.Y., of Hastings - on - Hudson, Man hattan and Hong Kong, died at 67 on Tuesday, August 31, 2004. He was educated in the U.K. as a Chartered Accountant and later became an entrepreneur. He is survived by his wife, Helena Tse, daughter, Karen Kar-Ling, two brothers, Chi Tak a
 CASSEL--Milton Edward. 95 years old, died September 4, 2004, in New York. Milton was a distinguished musician and a graduate of Juilliard in January of 1929. Mr. Cassel had been President of the Rita Allen Foundation for many years and had been a strong advocate for medical research. Milton
 STEVENSON--Kennedy. 78 of Manhattan, died on September 1, 2004, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. He served in the U.S. Army in Germany during WWII, and graduated from Princeton University. He became a partner in Stevenson & Bartram, Members NYSE. Ken was a member of the Knick
 WOLLY--Seymour, 86, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Farmingdale and Huntington, NY, and Rockville, MD, died September 3, 2004. Beloved husband for 62 years of Ida (Gillman), father of Michael and Marcia, grandfather of Peter, Mark, and Brian, father-in-law of Valentine (Nazarian), and unc
 Robert Denoon Cumming, an American interpreter and historian of 20th-century European thought, phenomenology in particular, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Morningside Heights. His death was announced by Columbia University. He taught there for 37 ye
 Gerard Piel, a science writer and editor who helped revive Scientific American magazine a half-century ago and made it thrive, died Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke he suffered in February, his 
 J. Wayne Fredericks, a retired businessman, diplomat and foundation executive credited with fostering American links with Africa, died on Aug. 18 in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 87. The cause was a stroke, his family said. As an engineer in the late 1940's, Mr. Fredericks was sen
 DAAR--Philip, 93, died August 29th at home in Walnut Creek, CA. Son of immigrant parents, he was a native of NYC. A graduate of De Witt Clinton HS and City College with graduate work at Columbia. Remembered as an inspiring and colorful physics teacher and union activist at Midwood HS, Flush
 GREENSPAN--Ezra M., M.D. Oncology Consultants mourns the passing of its founding partner, Ezra M. Greenspan, the father of modern combination cancer chemotherapy. His ability to innovate and think out of the box helped advance the care of innumerable cancer patients and will be sorely misse
 KIRK--Allan. On August 19, 2004. An extremely inventive, entrepreneurial and creative man. Former interior designer in NYC and LA, creator and owner of La Clique restaurant in NYC. Known and loved by all for his perfect sense of timing in both humor and advice. Predeceased by parents Sonia 
 LAGUNA -- Lawrence. I mourn the passing of this immensely talented and interesting architect. He was so proud of his son Kenny Laguna, my best friend, songwriting partner and producer. He loved his granddaughter, Carianne. I was blessed to know him and his wife, the renowned artist Mariella
 WEINROD--Milton. On September 4, 2004. Loving husband of Jeanne. Devoted father of Ellen and Shelley. Beloved grandfather of Melissa, Robin, Alex and Nora. Caring father-in-law of Bernard and dear brother of Manny. His sweet smile will always be remembered. Services Wednesday, September 8 a
 Beyers Naude, an Afrikaner cleric who renounced apartheid, defied his church and became his nation's leading exponent of white resistance to racism, died Tuesday in a Johannesburg suburb, family members said. He was 89 years old. The news of his death touched off an outpouring of tr
 Bob O. Evans, a computer scientist who in the 1960's led the development of a new class of mainframe computers -- the famous 360's -- helping turn I.B.M. into a data-processing power, died on Thursday in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 77. The cause was sudden heart failure, his family 
 BERKULE--Jack. September 8, 1913 to September 6, 2004. Founder of Accounting Statistics Co. and innovator of Payroll Data Processing Services. Devoted and loving husband, strong leader of his family. A brilliant and driven man among men. He will be deeply missed by his beautiful and devoted
 GREENSPAN--Ezra M. It is with profound sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Founder and First Medical Director of the Chemotherapy Foundation, Dr. Greenspan was a consummate educator who brought intellect, wisdom, great clinical skills, vas
 HUDNER--M. Ripley, aged 23, died on September 6 when the vehicle he was driving struck a curbstone in Tiverton, R.I. and veered out of control. Death was instantaneous. ''Rip'' Hudner was born on January 10, 1981 in New York City to Michael S. and Hope Freeman Hudner, of Little Compton and 
 KLUSNER--Arthur A., September 5th, 2004. Devoted husband of Suzanne. Loving father of Jilian Whaley and Jennifer LoPinto. Adored grandfather of Spencer, Staton, Kendall, Annie and Emma. Survived by his parents, Walter and Ethel Klusner. Memorial service Thursday, September 30th, 6 PM, at Fr
 LEVINE--Bernard B. The Board of Governors and Membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Bernard B. Levine, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife, Lenore and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy       
 O'NEILL--John J. Tim, Our love and our deepest sympathy on the loss of your amazing Dad-The Big O. He said your tree, although a little crooked, was growing in very nicely. He will always be very proud of you, as will we. Love and prayers to the O'Neill clan during this most difficult time.
 PALLONE--Nathaniel, PhD. On Monday, September 6, 2004 at Doylestown Hospital in Doylestown, PA. Husband of Letitia Clarke Pallone; loving father of Andrea and Angela Pallone of Wethersfield, CT, Richard (Mery) Scanlon of NYC, Sean (Yngrid) Scanlon of Lincroft, NJ and Sheila (David) Blische 
 PIEL--Gerard. The Board of Managers of The New York Botanical Garden mourns the passing of Honorary Manager, Gerard Piel. Gerry served on The Garden's Board with distinction for nearly three decades, 1971-1998, and since then, as an Honorary Board Member. Of his many volunteer assignments o
 SEIDLER -- David. Loving husband of Harriet. Devoted father to Stewart and Karen. Caring father-in-law to Michael. Beloved grandfather of Kayla and Eliana, and dear brother to Ned, and brotherin-law to Rosalie. His beautiful smile and love will always be remembered. Services Thursday, 10:00
 STEIN--Ernest. How can a man approaching 104 be so young? An old fashioned man so forward looking? A serious man so much fun? A stately man so devilish? Yet, he was not paraxdoxical. He was elegant, generous, kind, beautiful. His intellect stimulated us; his music touched our hearts. We wil
 SUESKIND--Bernard (Bob). Died in his sleep September 6, 2004, age 86. Devoted husband of the late Marjorie, devoted father of Alan. Services Wednesday, 10 AM, I.J. Morris, Hempstead, LI.       
 Donald Merriam Allen, a poetry editor whose 1960 anthology of the era's contemporary and avant-garde poets remains a milestone in American letters, died on Aug. 29 in San Francisco. He was 92. His death was announced by his friend and executor, Michael Williams. Mr. Allen st
 BLOM--Henry McEwan. On September 5, 2004. Loving husband to Solveig A. Blom, deceased October 1999. Survived by his wife Elizabeth of Boca Raton, FL. Loving father of Dr. Margaret Liv Blom, Dr. Henry A. Blom and Dr. Paul H. Blom. Devoted grandfather to Colin, Hakon, Christian, Ian, Kaia, La
 BLOOM--Herbert H., on September 7, 2004, of White Plains, NY, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Loving husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Barbara Bloom, Pat Comerford and Joan Frederick. Adored grandfather of Ross, Jay, Carolyn and Hallie. All services will be private. BLOOM--Herbert. T
 CARTON -- Marvyn, passed away on September 7, 2004. Husband of Christine (nee Ores). Father of Dana, John and his wife Wendy Rowden, Jeremy, and the late Pamela. Grandfather of Mark Caprio, Pamela, Emily and Sam Carton. Memorial service Friday, September 10th, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 FEUREY--Theodore V., 65, of Manhattan, died over Labor Day weekend. Beloved father of Brendan Hayes Feurey and Caitlin Mary Feurey. He was a 30-year veteran newsman with WCBS radio, UPI radio, The New York Post, the International Herald Tribune, and the Newark Evening News. In the past deca
 GILL--Arthur, 73 of Irvingtonon-Hudson, died September 7, 2004 after a lengthy illness. He was born in Brooklyn on February 4, 1931, the son of Estelle and Max Gill. He graduated from James Madison High School in 1948 and from City College of New York in 1952. He served in the U.S. Army dur
 PIEL--Gerard. The Board of Directors of the Marconi Foundation at Columbia University celebrates the life of Gerard Piel, a long-standing friend and director. A public intellectual, scientific pioneer and founder/publisher of Scientific American, Gerry interpreted the nuances of 20th centur
 PRENDERGAST--Kevin H., Professor Emeritus, Columbia University. Survived by his wife Jane, daughters Laura and Catherine. Family will receive friends Saturday, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, 3-8PM.       
 SCHARER--Jonathan M. It is with overwhelming sadness that everyone at Overland Entertainment mourns the loss of our beloved founder, fearless leader, mentor, visionary, and most of all, our so dearly loved friend. You will be with us always and are forever in our hearts. We will carry on yo
 STEIN--Ernest. 4 Sept, died peacefully at home in NYC. b. Munich 13 Nov 1900, emigrated to NYC '21, married Doris Blumenthal '36. Businessman and amateur musician, this renaissance man loved his family, music, art, literature and gardening in the country; read and spoke French, German and E
 ZILL--Nicholas. Of Brick, NJ, passed away peacefully on Sunday, September 5 at a nursing home from Parkinson's disease and several strokes. He was 89 years old. Beloved father of Nicholas, Sasha, Mark and Paul, grandfather of ten and greatgrandfather of three. Brother of Anne, Peter and the
 Richard G. Butler, the founder of the Aryan Nations and a leading figure in the white supremacist movement who preached that Jews descend from Satan and black people are subhuman, died yesterday in his home. He was 86. Mr. Butler died in his sleep in Hayden, Idaho, The Associated Pr
 W.H. Krome George, a former chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, who was credited with overseeing the company's expansion into a global concern, died on Monday in Mars, Pa. He was 86 and lived in Sewickley, Pa. The cause was complications of a heart attack and stroke he had last f
 Billy Davis, a Detroit singer and songwriter turned advertising executive who was involved in many of the most memorable R&B hits and musical ad campaigns of the late 20th century, died on Sept. 2 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 72. Mr. Davis's sister, Gladys Adams, did not announc
 BRESLER--Alan L. Born in Memphis, a resident of Boca Raton for the past eight years. Alan passed away suddenly on September 9, 2004. His zeal for life took him many places. He was formerly a resident of New York City, London and Beverly Hills. He is survived by his loving wife Jeri Poller a
 HEIMAN--Lee, 72, of North Woodmere, NY on September 2. Devoted husband of Roberta. Loving father of Todd, Bruce, Randi. Proud grandfather of seven. Author, editor and President of Golden Lee Books. He will be remembered for his wonderful sense of humor, the twinkle in his eye and his unendi
 NAVON--David H. Age 79. Of Amherst, MA., after a brief illness, on September 8, 2004. A world-wide, renowned scientist, music was also the great passion of his life. He gave unconditional love to his wife, Bobbe (Amsel) Navon, son Marc, daughter-in-law Michelle, daughter Beth, son-inlaw Jon
 PIEL--Gerard. The Board of Trustees, Trustees Emeriti and the entire Phillips Academy community in Andover, MA, express deepest sympathy at the death of Gerard Piel, Trustee Emeritus. A beloved member of the Class of 1933, he was a Charter Trustee from 1969-85.       
 PRICE--Earle. Congregation Ohav Sholom, Merrick, mourns the passing of our beloved Past President, Earle Price. He was a proud, loyal Jew and a great human being who will be sorely missed. Heartfelt condolences to his wife Ruth and children. Rabbi Jeremiah Wohlberg Robert Stein, President  
 ROSS--Robert. On September 8, 2004. Beloved father of Joseph (Adriana). Devoted brother of Martha. Adored grandfather of Juliana, Alejandro and Valentina. Funeral Service on Sunday, 10 AM at the Chas. Peter Nagel Funeral Home 352 E. 87th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions in his mem
 SCOURSI--Paul J. age 87, of Ozone Park, NY on August 26, 2004. Beloved husband of Beatrice for 62 years. Loving father of Christine Sanchez and Jean Scoursi. Devoted father - in - law of Ernest Sanchez. Also survived by his loving sister-in-law Marion Temme and cherished cousins, nieces, ne
 STARK--Kenneth B. September 9, after a year illness. Beloved husband of Renee. Loving father of Melissa and Aimee, sons-in-law Mark Bildner and Edward Goldberg. He also leaves father William, brother Hal, sister Risa Kritzstein, nephews and nieces. STARK--Kenneth B., 60. Caring, int
 STEIN--Ernest. 4 Sept, died peacefully at home in NYC. b. Munich 13 Nov 1900, emigrated to NYC '21, married Doris Blumenthal '36. Businessman and amateur musician, this renaissance man loved his family, music, art, literature and gardening in the country; read and spoke French, German and E
 Ralph E. Lapp, a physicist who was involved in atomic weapons from the earliest days of the Manhattan Project, was a prominent figure in the cold-war debate about civil defense and continued to speak out about the health effects of radiation into the 1990's, died Tuesday in Alexandria, Va. 
 Brock Adams, a liberal Democrat from Washington who was President Jimmy Carter's transportation secretary between six terms in the House and one in the Senate, died yesterday at his home in Stevensville, Md. He was 77. The cause of death was Parkinson's disease, Ellen Globokar, his 
 Jack Rohan, who in two stretches covering 18 seasons became Columbia University's most successful men's basketball coach, died Aug. 9 in a nursing home in South Yarmouth, Mass. He was 72. Columbia said yesterday that it had just been notified of Rohan's death. His wife, Barbara, tol
 Jonathan Mark Scharer, the original producer of the perennial Off Broadway spoof revue, ''Forbidden Broadway,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said the Overland Entertainment Company, a production company he founded in 1986. His fina
 BIERHOFF--Frederic A., 78, of Pleasantville, NY and Leicester, VT, died peacefully on September 6, 2004. He was the best friend of his wife, Ruth, loving father of Alan and Alison, and cherished grandfather of Rebecca. Fred was a navy veteran of World War II. His parents Alan and Janet and 
 RAMSEY--Peter C., on September 10th, 2004 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer. Best friend, devoted and loving husband of Maryalice. Loving son of Rosalie C. Ramsey. Devoted brother of Christie C. Ramsey. He was a generous, caring and compassionate gentleman who will be
 FRIEDMAN--Paul J. 9/11/2001 on Flight 11. ''He traveled a short while towards the sun and left the vivid air signed with his honor''. Loved by Selma, Iris, Amy, James, Meryl, Audrey and Little Rocky.       
 LEVIN--Neil. In honored memory of our beloved Neil and the men and women who perished with him on September 11, 2001. Neil's family       
 THOMPSON -- Nigel and Friends. ''From this day to the ending of the world, we in it shall be remembered-we happy few, we band of brothers; for he who today sheds his blood with me shall always be my brother.'' You're always in my thoughts. Rosie       
 Ralph G. Allen, a Guggenheim-winning theater historian who parlayed a scholarly paper on the pratfalls, bawdy humor and very bad puns of American burlesque into the book of the hit Broadway musical ''Sugar Babies,'' died on Thursday after a walk in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhatta
 Alfred Z. Solomon, who transformed the way American women buy fashionable hats and in later years became famous as the cigar-chomping dean of the Saratoga Race Course in Saratoga, N.Y., died on Sept. 4 in Saratoga. He was 104. A party will be held as scheduled on his birthday in thr
 AARON--Robert. In his 100th year. Loving husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends.       
 ADAMS--Brockman ''Brock.'' (77) of Stevensville, MD, a Representative and a Senator from Washington, died at his home on Friday, September 10, 2004. Survived by his beloved wife, Elizabeth ''Betty'' Scott Adams, father of, Scott Adams of Jacksonville, FL, Dean Adams of Roswell, GA, Kokie Ad
 BLOM--Henry McEwan. On September 5, 2004. Loving husband to Solveig A. Blom, deceased October 1999. Survived by his wife Elizabeth of Boca Raton, FL. Loving father of Dr. Margaret Liv Blom, Dr. Henry A. Blom and Dr. Paul H. Blom. Devoted grandfather to Colin, Hakon, Christian, Ian, Kaia, La
 BOGAERTS -- Winoc. Died peacefully at age 74 on September 5, 2004. He led the Belgian-Dutch Expedition to Antarctica in 1965. Beloved father of Andree and grandfather of Isabelle, Matthew and William. Memorial service Thursday, September 16, 2004 at 6PM at St. Frances Xavier Church at 46 We
 CALMENSON--Leo. (June 30, 1919) of Scottsdale, Arizona passed away on June 12, 2004. Born and raised in NYC, Leo spent time in Tucson, Arizona where he graduated from Tucson Sr. High in 1938. He attended University of Arizona. Leo worked for Bell Laboratories after WWII, but eventually beca
 CUMMINGS--Victor, M.D. On September 6, 2004 after a long battle with unremitting disease. Graduated NYU College of Medicine, served in Korea earning a Bronze Star. He organized the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the Medical College of Ohio and retired as Chairman in 1
 GREBIN--Mary. On September 10, 2004, of Leonia, N.J., formerly of North Bellmore, L.I. Beloved mother of Burton Grebin, M.D. and Rochelle Steiger. Dear sister of Goldie Michaels. Cherished grandmother of Jason, Perry, Scott and Karyn. Adored great grandmother of Lucy and Zoe. Services Monda
 HARRIS--Rees. 87, of 71 Between The Lake Road, Four Winds, died Sunday, September 7, 2004, at the Sharon Hospital in Sharon, CT, after being stricken at his home. He was the husband of Virginia (Lloyd) Harris. Mr. Harris was born in Irvington-on-theHudson, NY, on August 26, 1917, son of the
 HEISLER -- Alexander of NYC, on September 7, 2004. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Ackerman), devoted father and father-in-law of Dr. Kenneth and Kristen Heisler, Phyllis and Glenn Gerstell and Janice and Kenneth Wile. Dear brother of Ruth Rose. Loving grandfather of Matina, Emily, Robert, Ken
 KEYS--William Anderson III (''Commodore''). Formerly of Bronxville, NY, died September 1, 2004 at the age of 90. Mr. Keys is survived by a daughter, Dale Bruce of Camden, ME, three granddaughters, Cameron Masson of Wellesley, MA, Heather Bruce and Jennifer Bruce, both of Camden, plus three 
 KORETZ--David, M.D. September 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Cherished father of Robert and Bonnie Koretz, Ellen and Eric Bromberg, Nancy and Matt Weingast, and Karen and Rich Gordon. Adoring grandfather of Jeffrey, Daniel, Leah, Jessica, Henry, Jason, Joshua, Brett, Lily and Melissa.
 LUBEN--Michael. On September 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Sophie. Loving father of Jacques and Caroline. Adoring grandfather of Teddy. His stories and irreverence will be our family legacy for generations. Service Sunday, 11:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam.       
 RAMSEY--Peter C., on September 10th, 2004 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer. Best friend, devoted and loving husband of Maryalice. Loving son of Rosalie C. Ramsey. Devoted brother of Christie C. Ramsey. He was a generous, caring and compassionate gentleman who will be
 SCHARER--Jonathan M. The Board of Directors and staff of The American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of our cherished friend and long-time supporter, Jonathan Scharer. We salute Jonathan's steadfast commitment to the fight against AIDS and extend heartfelt condolences t
 SCHAYES--Leon. Devoted husband of Lia Schayes, father of Dr. Bernard Schayes, will be missed by granddaughters Stephanie, Alexandra and Isabelle and daughter-in-law Jeanne. He was loved by all.       
 UNGER--Harold. We mourn the loss of our esteemed President who died on September 6, 2004. He served our 85 year old fraternal society with distinction and dedication for many years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Shirley and his entire family. The First Plancher Benevolent So
 VERONESE--Jean Lange. On September 10, 2004, after a brief illness. Daughter of the late Dr. William Lange and Gertrude Lange. Devoted mother of Suzanne, William and his wife Emily. Devoted grandmother of Jazmyn and James. Stepdaughter of Leila S. Lange. Visitation Sunday 25 and 7-9 PM, at 
 WILLIAMS--Henry. February 19, 1928 to August 17, 2004. Henry, professor, psychologist, consultant, devoted his life to working with those less fortunate. He was the recipient of numerous awards, President Carter's National Council on Disability, E.B. Whitten Silver Medallion, the Distinguis
 ZEITLIN -- Paul. Husband, father, grandfather, educator, died on September 10 at age 88. He was an Assistant Principal at P.S. 157 Bronx and in charge of remedial reading for the District. He made a big difference to the children with reading difficulties. He left a wife, Mildred, two lovin
 KELMAN--Charles, MD. The creative spark of the inventor, ophthalmologist, entertainer, friend & loving family man touched the lives of many. He will be affectionately remembered at a tribute on Monday, September 13, 2004 at 11:30AM at the St. James Theater, 44 Street (Broadway and 8th Ave),
 Fred Ebb, the devilishly witty Broadway lyricist who was half of the legendary musical theater team of Kander and Ebb, responsible for the songs in classic shows like ''Cabaret'' and ''Chicago,'' died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Mr. Ebb was coy about hi
 EBB--Fred. Devoted son of the late Harry and Anna Ebb. Beloved brother of the late Estelle Yavers and Norma Bernard. Cherished uncle of Steven and Eve, Harriet and Michael, Harold and Bonnie, Carol and Ken, Cathy, and Mitchell and Adrienne. Loving great-uncle and beloved friend to so many. 
 FEINER--Samuel. Age 87, of Glen Gardner, NJ. Died peacefully with his family at his side on September 1, 2004. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne Burmon Feiner. His first wife was Zelda Resnick Feiner who passed away in 1987. He is also survived by his children Jeffrey Feiner of Miller Plac
 GREBIN--Mary. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) and the Continuing Care Leadership Coalition (CCLC) mourn the passing of Mary Grebin, beloved mother of Burton Grebin, M.D., President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Mary's Healthcare System for Children, and an esteemed collea
 HERSHON--Lanny A. September 4, 2004. Survived by his daughter Nikkie Hershon. May he rest in peace.       
 MANGRAVITE--George H. At the age of 102, on September 10, 2004, of Shoreham, LI. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Loving father of Elissa Jung. Cherished grandfather of Richard G. and his wife Jean, Michael R. and his wife Andrea and David E. and Mariah Megarry. Adored great-grandather 
 SCHNEIDER -- Joel. We mourn the loss of our friend. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Claire Tomlinson. Mia and Warren       
 STEIN--Malcolm L. On September 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet Weiss Stein. Loving father of Jonathan W. Stein (Sharon Merriam) and Alison Eve Stein (Andrew Isaacs). Son of the late Charles and Lillian Stein. Brother of Dr. Marjorie L. Stein. Son-in-law of Blanche Barasch Weiss and the
 VERONESE--Jean Lange. On September 10, 2004, after a brief illness. Daughter of the late Dr. William Lange and Gertrude Lange. Loving wife of Dino Veronese. Devoted mother of Suzanne, William and his wife Emily. Devoted grandmother of Jazmyn and James. Stepdaughter of Leila S. Lange. Visita
 Petros VII, patriarch of Alexandria, who preached Christian-Muslim dialogue from one of the world's oldest seats of Christianity and who vigorously promoted the growth of Greek Orthodoxy in Africa, died Saturday at the age of 55. He was killed in a helicopter crash in the Aegean nea
 James A. Westphal, an astronomer who led the Palomar Observatory and directed the team that built the first camera for the Hubble Space Telescope, died on Wednesday at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 74. His death followed a long illness, officials at the California Institute of
 Jerome Chodorov, a prolific playwright and librettist and co-author of the book for the musical ''Wonderful Town,'' who survived as a screenwriter despite being on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Sunday in Nyack, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Pomona, N.Y. His death was announced by his
 EBB--Fred. Devoted son of the late Harry and Anna Ebb. Beloved brother of the late Estelle Yavers and Norma Bernard. Cherished uncle of Steven and Eve, Harriet and Michael, Harold and Bonnie, Carol and Ken, Cathy, and Mitchell and Adrienne. Loving great-uncle and beloved friend to so many. 
 GREBIN--Mary. New YorkPresbyterian Healthcare System wishes to extend its sincere sympathies on the death of Mary Grebin, beloved mother of Burton Grebin, MD, President and CEO of St. Mary's Healthcare System for Children, and a longtime colleague and friend. Our heartfelt condolences to Dr
 LIEBMAN -- Herbert. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Elaine and family. A devoted son of City College, he will be missed by all of us. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chair Herbert Robinson, Pres. James L. Schatz, Exec. Dir.       
 MASLOW -- Norman. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our former President, Norman Maslow. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ted Markson, President MASLOW--Norman. Deepest sympathy to Selma and the family on Norman's d
 SAMMIS--Jesse F., Jr. A longtime resident of Greenwich, CT and well-known sportsman and realtor died on September 12, 2004. Mr. Sammis was born in Huntington, Long Island on January 23, 1911. He was in the St. Bernard's School, NJ, Class of 1929, Pomfret School, Class of 1930, and attended 
 SCHNEIDER -- Joel. The Board of Trustees, friends and colleagues at Sesame Workshop and around the world mourn the loss of Joel Schneider. He passed away on Sunday, September 12. It goes without saying how much we will miss this gentle man for his caring, inspiring, knowledgeable, witty and
 SOLOW--Ethel Fisher. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of Peter, Matthew and the late Tom. Cherished grandmother of Jessica, Rebecca, Michael and Russell. Loving brother of Jerome and his wife Anne. Dear uncle of Jeffrey, Marc and Jodi. Services Tuesday, 1PM, Riverside-Nassau 
 STEIN--Malcolm L. On September 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet Weiss Stein. Loving father of Jonathan W. Stein (Sharon Merriam) and Alison Eve Stein (Andrew Isaacs). Son of the late Charles and Lillian Stein. Brother of Dr. Marjorie L. Stein. Son-in-law of Blanche Barasch Weiss and the
 STUCHINER--Martin. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime and wonderfully involved member Martin Stuchiner. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 TOONKEL--William I. On Sunday, September 12, 2004, of Glen Rock, New Jersey. Husband of Rhoda (nee Minsberg). Father of Ellis Jeffrey Toonkel and his wife Felice, Gayle E. Toonkel and Richard N. Toonkel and his wife Laura. Grandfather of Jacob Hammond Toonkel, Isaac William Toonkel and Jenn
 WIEDERKEHR--Matthew of South Orange, N.J., on Monday, September 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Jennifer (nee Levy). Devoted father of Lilly Jane and Mia Isabel. Loving son of Lee and Ronnie. Dear brother of Evan and Mandi. Adoring uncle of Ethan. Cherished grandson of Ethel and Philip. Funera
 YEDLIN--Benedict died September 10th in Princeton, New Jersey. He was 81 years old. Ben was a long time resident of Princeton and founder of The Yedlin Company, a real estate development and building company responsible for numerous commercial and residental projects in the Princeton area. 
 YOUNG - KENNEDY -- Homer III, age 52, passed away on September 1, 2004 surrounded by his loving friends after a brief illness. He was an active member of his Inwood community and will be deeply missed.       
 Subandrio, who was a major voice for Indonesian independence while he was President Sukarno's foreign minister but then spent 30 years in prison after being condemned to die by a military tribunal in 1966, died on July 3 at his home in South Jakarta. He was 89. His death was reporte
 James D. Barber, a Duke University political scientist and authority on the American presidential character who predicted the downfall of Richard M. Nixon several years before the fact, died Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 74. The cause was complications of primary progres
 Jerry Turner, the longtime artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, one of the nation's best regarded regional theaters, died on Sept. 2 at his home in Olympia, Wash. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said Libby Appel, the festival's current artistic director.    
 Max Abramovitz, the architect who designed Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center and also had a hand in the building of the United Nations complex and several well-known Midtown skyscrapers, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 96. Mr. Abramovitz was born in Chicago 
 CHODOROV--Jerome. The Dramatists Guild Council is saddened by the death of former Council member Jerome Chodorov. Our condolences to his friends and family for their loss...a loss shared by colleagues who will miss the company and collaboration of this esteemed playwright. John Weidman, Pre
 DONNELL--John Randolph. Of Palm Beach. Oilman, banker and philanthropist, died at his home in Newport, RI, September 8, 2004. He was 92 years old. In recent years he has divided his time, between homes in Newport and Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Donnell was born June 22, 1912 in Findlay, OH, second 
 EBB--Fred. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the death of legendary lyricist Fred Ebb. With partner John Kander, Mr. Ebb helped to shape the modern American musical. And even as his witty and searing lyrics continue to impact audiences around the world, we, his colleagues, begin to sadly 
 LUBIN--Warren, 79, of Roslyn Heights, NY (recently Whippany, NJ), on September 14, 2004. A strong, caring father and friend who led by example and made the most of everything life offered him. Will be fondly remembered by sons Mark and Gary, daughters-in-law Rhonda and Wendy, grandchildren 
 REEVES--Newton D. on September 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Dorothy, brother of Alfred, uncle of Ray and Jim Newton. Graduated from Cooper Union and was a graphic artist. Services will be held privately. Donations can be made in his name to: 1st Cerebral Palsy of N.J., 7 Sanford Ave, Bellev
 THOMPSON -- Arthur. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of baritone Arthur Thompson, a distinguished artist and wonderful colleague. In a Met career spanning a quarter century, he sang more than 300 performances of 26 roles. We extend our deepest sympathies to his many friends. Joseph V
 Aaron Director, an economist whose rigorous free-market analysis profoundly influenced approaches to antitrust law, died on Saturday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 102. His death was announced by the University of Chicago, where he taught for two decades and imbued a 
 Anthony Toney, a painter who taught at the New School of Social Research for 43 years, died on Friday in Marin County, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Fairfax, Calif. Born in 1913 to Syrian immigrants in Gloversville, N.Y., Mr. Toney earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Syracu
 Michael Hamilton Jameson, a scholar of Greek antiquity who in the 1960's helped unearth the relics of battles fought more than two millenniums ago, died on Aug. 28 in Stanford, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Palo Alto, Calif. His family said his death followed a brief illness.       
 GOLD--Jack, 78, died of salmonellosis on September 15, 2004, two years after the death of his much loved wife, Rhoda. He is survived by his three children, Matthew, Stephanie and Roberta Gold. His two grandchildren, Rebecca and Ilyssa Gold, his brother Leon Gold, his sister Linda Chuman, an
 HEALEY--James E., Mt. Laurel, NJ, on September 14 at the age of 88. Born in Somerville, MA, an employee of Allstate Insurance for 25 years, he raised his family in Albany and Delmar, NY before retiring to Cape Cod, MA. Awarded the Soldier's Medal for service with the OSS in WWII. He is surv
 JERIA RIOS--Pablo Ramon. September 11, 2004. Much beloved relative and friend. Survivor of Dawson Island, Chile. Found peace in NYC. Brought joy to all who knew him. Services Friday, 10 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KIRSCHENFELD -- Seymour. 78, succumbed to cancer August 28. Predeceased by his first wife Greta. Survived by his wife Evelyn; his children Paul, Jonathan and Laura; his stepchildren Julianne and Allison; his sister Sylvia, brother Jack, and six grandchildren.       
 KNEIP--Arthur B. September 14, 2004, of Wynnewood, PA. Husband of the late Carolyn (nee Zuckerman). Mother of Maggie Kneip and William A. Kneip. Grandfather of Caroline and Daniel Andrew. Also survived by David W. Evans. Art was a proud graduate of William & Mary (1941), a marketing executi
 LUBIN--Warren, 79, of Roslyn Heights, NY (recently Whippany, NJ), on September 14, 2004. A strong, caring father and friend who led by example and made the most of everything life offered him. Will be fondly remembered by sons Mark and Gary, daughters-in-law Rhonda and Wendy, grandchildren 
 O'BRIEN--Joel. 61, in Los Angeles on September 9. Beloved musician and artist. He was an impeccable rock drummer who recorded with James Taylor, Carole King and many others; a visual artist of fertile and whimsical imagination; a jazz instrumentalist, vocalist, and composer steeped in the t
 REEVES--Newton D. on September 13, 2004. Beloved husband of Dorothy, brother of Alfred, uncle of Ray and Jim. Newton graduated from Cooper Union and was a graphic artist. Services will be held privately. Donations can be made in his name to: 1st Cerebral Palsy of N.J., 7 Sanford Ave, Bellev
 STEINBERG -- Robert. On September 12, 2004. Of Long Island, British Virgin Islands and NYC. Devoted husband of Janet, loving father to Dr. Mark Steinberg and Julie Steinberg Knobel, dear grandfather to Samantha, Alex, Rebecca and Rachel. Survived by his devoted Cavalier King Charles spaniel
 Harvey Wheeler, a political scientist and author, whose novel about nuclear war by accident, ''Fail-Safe,'' caused a national shudder in 1962, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Carpinteria, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Wheeler, who worked on the 
 Johnny Ramone, the stone-faced guitarist of the punk band the Ramones, whose fast, buzz-saw blasts of noise laid the foundation for a school of rock guitar, died on Wednesday afternoon at his home in Los Angeles. He was 55. The cause was prostate cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's
 ABRAMOVITZ -- Max. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Max Abramovitz, a renowned architect who served with distinction as Trustee, Honorary Trustee and Life Trustee for 57 years. Max chaired the Building Planning Committee during the found
 ATTARDI--Frank, on September 15, 2004, at age 70. Beloved husband of Linda Dano Attardi. Loving father of David Attardi and Elisa Weber. Cherished grandfather of Jenna Attardi and Hannah and Abigail Weber. Devoted brother of Marie Acciani and Vera Gheduzzi. Friends may call at Frank E. Camp
 BALAY--Roland (May 28, 1902--September 16, 2004). Knoedler & Company celebrates the life and mourns the passing of Roland Balay, grandson of our founder, Michael Knoedler, and President Emeritus of the gallery (1956-1976). Mr. Balay served artists and collectors with dedication and vision w
 COHN--Richard J., on September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Leita Hesen. Devoted brother of Adelaide Peters. Loving uncle of Tom and Gerry Peters. A graduate of Lawrence High School and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. A longtime member of the American Stock Exchange and options trader for
 KNEIP--Arthur B. September 14, 2004, of Wynnewood, PA. Husband of the late Carolyn (nee Zuckerman). Mother of Maggie Kneip and William A. Kneip. Grandfather of Caroline and Daniel Andrew. Also survived by David W. Evans. Art was a proud graduate of William & Mary (1941), a marketing executi
 LIPPMAN--Barry. Age 73. Of Maplewood, New Jersey, died September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Paula, for 49 years. Devoted and loving father of John (Stacey) and Douglas (Jane). Adoring grandfather of Tommy, Taylor and Danielle. He was Vice President of Investments at the Jeffrey Matthews F
 LUSCZYNSKI--Henry, 83, Beloved father of Lori Simon and son-in-law Joel M. Simon of NYC. died September 13th. A World War II Marine Corp meteorologist, he was a talented draughtsman designer developing the G.I. Joe doll and Sunfish sailboat. Funeral celebration Saturday in Springfield, MA. 
 MAHONEY--William B. September 15, 2004, in Miami. A writer, trade unionist, an alcoholism counselor, he touched many lives in his 92 years. His short stories and sports columns appeared in magazines, books and two daily newspapers; he negotiated for the Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union 
 PIEL--Gerard. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Natural Resources Defense Council mourn the passing of Gerard Piel, the founding editor and publisher of ''Scientific American.'' Mr. Piel served as a judge for the Oakes Award, one of the nation's premier environmental writing prizes, es
 PRINCE--Robin Herndon, 67, of Greenwich, CT, died Tuesday, September 14, 2004. Chairman of Jamison Prince Asset Management, previously a Principal of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, General Partner of Royal Partners, former Senior V.P. of Bessemer Trust Company. Survived by father Sydney R
 STEIN--Malcolm. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Malcolm Stein and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 Glenn Presnell, a star back in the National Football League during the 1930's with the Portsmouth (Ohio) Spartans and their successor franchise, the Detroit Lions, died Monday at a nursing home in Ironton, Ohio. He was 99. His death was announced by the Lions, who said he was the la
 Lt. Col. Jack Bolt, who flew with the Marines' Black Sheep Squadron in World War II and was the only Marine pilot to be an ace in two wars, died Sept. 8 at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 83 and lived in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. The cause was leukemia, his son, Robert, said. 
 ATTARDI--Frank, on September 15, 2004, at age 70. Beloved husband of Linda Dano Attardi. Loving father of David Attardi and Elisa Weber. Cherished grandfather of Jenna Attardi and Hannah and Abigail Weber. Devoted brother of Marie Acciani and Vera Gheduzzi. Friends may call at Frank E. Camp
 COHN--Richard J., on September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Leita Hesen. Devoted brother of Adelaide Peters. Loving uncle of Tom and Gerry Peters. A graduate of Lawrence High School and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. A longtime member of the American Stock Exchange and options trader for
 HARDER--Henry U., 79, of Yarmouth, ME died at home on September 6, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in NYC on March 9th, 1925, he was the son of Gertrude U. Harris and Lewis F. Harder. He lived for many years in Greenwich, CT before retiring to Maine. Upper Saranac Lake, NY 
 JACOBY--Henry J., 87, of New York City on September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Doris Goodman Jacoby; brother of Gertrude Handelman and Leah Berton; father of Ruth Ellen Jacoby Barnert, Karen Jacoby Zovic, and Jean Jacoby Bentley; grandfather of Matthew Jacoby Barnert, Michelle Celeste Zov
 SHIMM--Mark. Born 1947, passed away September 16, after a long courageous battle with Leukemia and Lymphoma. Mark was a gifted photographer and songwriter who leaves a legacy of beautiful work. He is survived by sisters Emily Sendler (David) of Riverdale, Dorrine Levy (Jack) of Liberty, and
 SOSLER--Stuart N., 68, of Stuart, FL died September 17th, 2004. Beloved father of Neil and Andree and fatherin-law of Heather Katzen Sosler. Adoring grandfather of Caroline. Loving husband of the late Carolyn Atlas Sosler. He is also survived by sister, Francine Sosler. Stuart was born in N
 SPITZ--Jerold B., 59, of West Hartford, CT, died September 16 at home surrounded by loved ones: beloved wife Lauren, his best friend, and Eisches Chayil; his cherished children: Maren and Warren of West Hartford, and Danielle and David Kolojay of Sharon, MA; adored stepdaughters: Erica and 
 THOMAS--Vurghese, August 28, 1926-September 14, 2004. Survived by his wife, children, brother, sisters, and grandchildren. Services are at St. Rocco's Church, Saturday, 9:30AM, Burial at Greenwood Cemetery, 11:30AM.       
 Roland Balay, an international art dealer and former president of Knoedler & Company, the New York gallery established in 1846 by his grandfather Michael Knoedler, died on Thursday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 102. His death was announced by the company, from which he 
 BALAY--Roland (May 28, 1902--September 16, 2004). Knoedler & Company celebrates the life and mourns the passing of Roland Balay, grandson of our founder, Michael Knoedler, and President Emeritus of the gallery (1956-1976). Mr. Balay served artists and collectors with dedication and vision w
 BLITS--Harold J., 88, of Aventura, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY, died Saturday, August 14th, 2004 after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Eveline.       
 BLOCK--Rabbi Asher. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Little Neck Jewish Center in Queens. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 FRITZ--Barry R. 64, of Stony Creek and Woodbridge, CT, peacefully on September 17, surrounded by his loved ones. Son of the late Harry and Belle. Most beloved husband of Mary and devoted brother of Robert. Adored stepfather of Jed and Katie Doyle. Favorite uncle, cousin, friend. Wise teache
 HARDER--Henry U., 79, of Yarmouth, ME died at home on September 6, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in NYC on March 9th, 1925, he was the son of Gertrude U. Harris and Lewis F. Harder. He lived for many years in Greenwich, CT before retiring to Maine. Upper Saranac Lake, NY 
 HARPER -- Walter Warren. Los Angeles, August 10th, 2004. Born June 29th, 1915, in Catskill, New York, to Florence Alexander and Joseph Charles Harper. An outstanding athlete, Warren was the first African American to make the Varsity in Catskill. Married Katherine Louise Johnson, daughter of
 HOOKER--Samuel D., Jr. In his 91st year. Loving brother of Naomi H. Chamberlain and Olivia J. Hooker. He will be missed by a host of friends in Chicago and White Plains.       
 JACOBY--Henry J., 87, of New York City on September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Doris Goodman Jacoby; brother of Gertrude Handelman and Leah Berton; father of Ruth Ellen Jacoby Barnert, Karen Jacoby Zovic, and Jean Jacoby Bentley; grandfather of Matthew Jacoby Barnert, Michelle Celeste Zov
 KAUFMAN--Harold M. 88, of Roslyn, NY, on September 18, 2004. Loving husband of Edna. Devoted father of David, Harriet, Robert, Karen and Steven. Adoring grandfather of Jill and Jeremy Bohrer, Elana Kaufman and Matthew White. Proud great-grandfather of Sophie Bohrer. Services to be held at T
 ROSENKRANZ -- Jules Joseph. Age 91, of New York City, died September 17, 2004. Mr. Rosenkranz was the beloved husband of Marjorie Sable Rosenkranz. He was former Vice President of Durst Manufacturing. Jules was loved by all whose lives he touched and will be remembered for his kindness, gen
 SCHECHTMAN -- Daniel on September 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Marion. Dear brother of Selma Epstein. Devoted son of the late Samuel and Tillie Schechtman. To know him was to love him. Services private.       
 SHARABY--David. Beloved husband of 49 years to Lena. Loving father of Michael, Danny, Elliott, Susan and Jeffrey. Cherished brother of Abraham, Sheldon, Sammy, Morris and Shoshana. Adored grandfather to 22 grandchildren. Passed away on September 17, 2004, at his home in Florida. He will be 
 SMITH--George. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away on September 17, 2004, at age 92. Formerly of Englewood, NJ, he was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband for 68 years to Mildred. Loving father to Stephen and Peter (Kim). Devoted brother to Sherman and the late Al and Ruth. Adoring 
 SPITZ--Jerold B., 59, of West Hartford, CT, died September 16 at home surrounded by loved ones: beloved wife Lauren, his best friend, and Eisches Chayil; his cherished children: Maren and Warren of West Hartford, and Danielle and David Kolojay of Sharon, MA; adored stepdaughters: Erica and 
 TASHKER--Frank I. Passed away September 8, 2004 after several weeks of declining health in Mountain View, CA. Brother of the late Bea Kahn and Edna Erdheim. Loving father of Michael Tashker of Palo Alto, CA and proud grandfather of Jessica and Sara. Frank ably represented pubs and restauran
 THIERIOT--Charles Henschel III, February 16, 1947-August 22, 2004. Died in his sleep at home in Bel-Air, CA at the age of 57. Charlie was born and raised in Locust Valley, NY. He attended Greenvale School in Greenvale, NY; St. Mark's School in Southboro, MA; Menlo College in Atherton, CA; t
 THORNBROUGH -- Albert Adam passed away September 8th as a result of complications from a stroke he suffered six weeks ago. He had just celebrated his 92nd birthday. He was born on the plains in Lakin, Kansas and lived there through the Dust Bowl and the Depression. After graduating from Kan
 WHITNEY--James J., age 88, passed away September 9, 2004, at home in Peoria, Arizona. Born and raised in New York City, Jim was a US Army Lieutenant during WWII. He built a home in Dobbs Ferry, NY, and worked for 30 years in the NYC Fire Department. He was assigned to Ladder 42, Ladder 19, 
 Eddie Adams, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist and combat photographer who produced one of the most riveting images of the Vietnam War, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, said Judy Twersky, a spokesw
 Marvin M. Mitchelson, the Hollywood divorce lawyer who parlayed the concept of ''palimony'' settlements for unmarried partners into a successful career representing celebrities, becoming a celebrity himself, died Saturday night in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said h
 ADAMS--Eddie. Parade magazine mourns the loss of a colleague and dear friend. Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer Eddie Adams was the talent behind some of the most moving and poignant images ever to appear on the cover of Parade for more than 20 years. Eddie's genius was his ability to cap
 FRITZ--Barry R. 64, of Stony Creek and Woodbridge, CT, peacefully on September 17, surrounded by his loved ones. Son of the late Harry and Belle. Most beloved husband of Mary and devoted brother of Robert. Adored stepfather of Jed and Katie Doyle. Favorite uncle, cousin, friend. Wise teache
 OSTRER--Louis C. Beloved husband of Marilyn and the late Rita. Devoted father of Benjamin (Joan), Steven (Sally), the Honorable Mitchel (Gene) and the late Richard, and step-father of Brian (Jackie) Cohen. Also survived by seven grandchildren. Loving brother of the late Dina. He was a Serge
 RUTTENBERG--Derald H. 88, was born in Lafayette, IN, on February 17, 1916, and died on September 19, 2004, in New York City. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1937, Yale Law School in 1940, and Harvard University Graduate School of Business in 1942. In 1943, he entered the ar
 WEISER--Joseph J. On September 17, 2004. He was 92 years old. Mr. Weiser was a New York State Assemblyman for the Eastside District (District 74), New York State Commissioner of Off-Track Betting. He is survived by his beloved wife, Ruth, of 57 years, his children, Stanley and Karen Weiser,
 Derald H. Ruttenberg, an investor and industrialist who ran Studebaker-Worthington, an automotive parts company, and a philanthropist who financed the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, died on Sunday at the hospital. He was 88 and lived in New Yor
 James O. Page, a longtime fire chief who helped shape modern-day emergency medical services and whose writings helped establish them nationally, died Sept. 4. He was 68 and lived in Carlsbad, Calif. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while swimming at a local spa, said Jems Co
 Norman Frank Cantor, a prominent American medievalist whose books, like his classic ''Civilization of the Middle Ages,'' were widely read in the classroom and beyond, died on Saturday at his home in Miami, where he retired four years ago. He was 74 and a former resident of Greenwich Village
 ADAMS--Eddie. 1933-2004 With deep sorrow we mourn the loss of extraordinary photographer Eddie Adams. In his 45-year career, Eddie won hundreds of awards from his peers for his insightful and often startling photos that documented the human experience. Among his most poignant images were th
 BESTE--William ''Bill'', 76, of Ocean Pines, MD., on September 18, 2004, formerly of New York. Husband of Nancie. Father of Eric, Patricia, Valerie, Kathi and Stacey. Brother of Robert. He was a graduate of Hofstra University and served in the 82nd Airborne. He worked at BBD&O as an Account
 GOLDSTEIN -- Honorable -David, Justice of The Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Queens. Devoted husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of Robin and Deborah. Dear son of Irma Goldstein Bollt; sister Bonnie Rifkin. Services today 1pm at Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-0
 GREENE--Steven C., 67, of Sag Harbor and Bedford, New York died on September 15, 2004. Survived by his wife Gunilla Greene, children Jon and Karen, stepsons Nicholas and Erik and sister Marilyn Ginsberg. A practicing attorney, his kindness, generosity and valued counsel will be forever reme
 HILLS--Will, 60, of Kittery Point, ME and Brookline, MA, passed away on Sunday, September 19, 2004. In 1972 Will founded Limitless Design. He is survived by his wife Beth Segers, his parents Mr. & Mrs. James Maddox of New York City, two brothers-inlaw Carl Segers and Joseph Segers, and four
 HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. 82, patriarch of the Hochfelder Family. War hero, businessman, philanthropist, trusted friend, advisor to many. Born in NYC April 27, 1922. Died peacefully in his sleep at home September 20, 2004. Raised in Cedarhurst, NY, graduated Lawrence H.S. 1939, the Wharton Schoo
 HORAN--Thomas Francis on September 20, 2004 of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Mary. Loving father of Liz Barouh, John (Teresa), Maggie McGuire (Gregory), Paul and Cecilia Beane (Roger). Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Kevin, Thomas, Caitlin, Patrick and Michael. Also s
 KAUFMAN--Harold. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Harold Kaufman and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Old Westbury Golf & C.C. Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 LOOMIS--Joseph. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Deborah Schiff, President Stephen Chaleff, Chair
 McCREERY--James B. Of Dix Hills, NY, husband of Marianne, nee Norton, father of Pat Fitzsimons, Jamie Israel, wife of Bob Israel, James P. McCreery, husband of Peggy Franck, grandfather of Caitlin, John, Sheryl, Kevin, Kyra and Evelyn. Jim was a CPA in Massapequa, NY, a graduate of NYU and 
 ROSENKRANZ--Jules. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Jules Rosenkranz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 RUTTENBERG--Derald H. 88, was born in Lafayette, IN, on February 17, 1916, and died on September 19, 2004, in New York City. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1937, Yale Law School in 1940, and Harvard University Graduate School of Business in 1942. In 1943, he entered the ar
 SCHEUER--Walter. An investor, philanthropist, and producer of documentary films, died on Monday, September 20, 2004, after a period of decline. Wally will be remembered with great love by his devoted wife, Marge, his children, David, Jeffrey, Susan, and Judith, their spouses, his seven gran
 WYGODA--Gerald. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourns the death of Gerald Wygoda. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his mother Ida, brother Joseph and the entire Wygoda family. Daniel Reingold, Exec. V.P.       
 ZIEGLER--Theodore E. The General Society of Mechanics & Tradesmen of the City of New York mourns the passing of our Past President (1984) who joined the Society in 1978 and served on several committees from 1978 through 1994. He was an alumni of the Mechanics Institute. He is survived by hi
 BALL--G. Carl. The partners, associates and employees of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein LLP express their sincere condolences to our longtime friend and valued client, George C. Ball, Jr., on the loss of his father, a highly respected and leading businessman in the horticulture industry. 
 FINKEL--Lawrence W. On September 20, 2004. Beloved father of Deborah Lennon, Kenneth and Alan Finkel. Loving Pop Pop to his grandchildren. He died like he lived--he wanted nothing except the love he gave and the love he received. Dear friend of Charlotte Lesher. Services Thursday 2:15 P.M. 
 FITZGERALD -- Patrick J., M.D. Pathologist, researcher and author, whose books included a history of cancer, succumbed to the disease on July 29, 2004. He died at his home in Sea Cliff, L.I., a week shy of his 91st birthday. In 1930, Dr. Fitzgerald rescued a man who had fallen through ice i
 HILLS--Will, 60, of Kittery Point, ME and Brookline, MA, passed away on Sunday, September 19, 2004. In 1972 Will founded Limitless Design. He is survived by his wife Beth Segers, his parents Mr. & Mrs. James Maddox of New York City, two brothers-inlaw Carl Segers and Joseph Segers, and four
 HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. 82, patriarch of the Hochfelder Family. War hero, businessman, philanthropist, trusted friend, advisor to many. Born in NYC April 27, 1922. Died peacefully in his sleep at home September 20, 2004. Raised in Cedarhurst, NY, graduated Lawrence H.S. 1939, the Wharton Schoo
 LANE -- Fred ''Skippy'', a master mariner and a lifelong resident of City Island, passed away on September 21, 2004. He leaves his beloved Doris; children Jackie Taylor and Larry Lane; and grandchildren.       
 POPOFSKY--David. Born in Brooklyn, NY, February 6, 1934, David was a graduate of the Citadel in 1956 and served in the U.S. Army and was discharged with the rank of Captain. In 1973 David founded Popofsky Advertising Inc. in New York City. Over the years the agency worked on such brands as 
 RUTTENBERG--Derald. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Perri PeltzRuttenberg, our beloved Board member and her husband, Eric, on the loss of his father, Derald Ruttenberg. May his memory be a blessing for
 SCHEUER -- Walter. The Trustees, dancers and staff of the Paul Taylor Dance Foundation mourn the death of our beloved Walter Scheuer, Executive Vice President of the Board. A deeply devoted friend to Paul Taylor, Wally was the longest-serving Trustee in the 50-year history of the Taylor Com
 SCHLEIM--Peter A., creative genius born March 1942 in Berlin, Germany, passed away September 20, 2004. Author of many inventions and processes, he leaves behind a daughter, Carrie Stasiak of Poconos, PA; a sister, Fay Gillespie of Port Washington, NY; a partner, Paula SaintAmour of Marbleto
 WYNER--Jay S., 83, of Sands Point, NY died on September 20, 2004. Adored husband of Ethel; beloved father of Shari and Richard Narva and Janis and Paul Sheinkopf; dear grandfather of Matthew, Laura, Arielle, Zachary, Josh, Jamie, Sarah and Shoshi; and loving brother of Ruth Schwartzberg, Do
 William C. Reeves, a medical entomologist whose pioneering research into the spread and control of mosquito-borne diseases laid the groundwork for the current nationwide efforts to contain the West Nile virus, died Sunday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Walnut Creek. 
 Edward Larrabee Barnes, a New York architect who cherished the ideals of clarity and functionality he learned from the Modernist masters even as he devised novel approaches to designing houses, campuses, museums, churches and skyscrapers, died on Tuesday in Cupertino, Calif. He was 89 and l
 BLOCK--Cy, 85, passed away on September 22, 2004. Dearest husband and sweetheart of Harriet. Devoted father of Bette and Larry Gerber, Margy and Larry Bauman and Nancy and Les Perlson. Adoring grandpa of Julie, Tracy, Shaun, Erica, Ryan, Aaron & Keith. Loving great-grandfather of Jessica an
 FINKEL--Lawrence W. On September 20, 2004. Beloved father of Deborah Lennon, Kenneth and Alan Finkel. Loving Pop Pop to his grandchildren. He died like he lived--he wanted nothing except the love he gave and the love he received. Dear friend of Charlotte Lesher. Services Thursday 2:15 P.M. 
 GAT--Emanuel. Passed away September 22, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife of 44 years, Naomi, devoted sons Michael and Jonathan, his brother Izhar and his wife Zipora, and their three children and three grandchildren. Graveside services today, 2PM at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, N
 GLASSMAN--Rabbi Bernard. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Tifereth Israel Congregation New Bedford, MA. He served as book review editor of our journal and edited our annual booklet in memory of colleagues. We extend 
 GRAMOVOT--Abraham, died on September 13, 2004, at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Harriet; his daughter, Hollis, and his two grandchildren, Kym and Mitchell. He was a devoted husband for 60 years, and a loving father and grandfather. His memory will live in our hearts forever.   
 HOCHFELDER -- J. Gene. Aish HaTorah wishes to extend heartfelt condolences to the Hochfelder family. Peter, Chairman of the Board; John, Member of the Board, James, Thomas and Andrew upon the loss of their father and to his beloved wife Carol. He was a man among men, who led by example. May
 PALL--David B. Ph.D., Born April 2, 1914 in Thunder Bay, Ontario, died peacefully September 21, 2004 after a long illness. Loving husband of the late Josephine B. Pall and the late Helen R. Pall. Beloved father of Ellen Pall, Jane Block and Abigail Weinshank and the late Stephanie Pall and 
 POPOFSKY--David. Born in Brooklyn, NY, February 6, 1934, David was a graduate of the Citadel in 1956 and served in the U.S. Army and was discharged with the rank of Captain. In 1973 David founded Popofsky Advertising Inc. in New York City. Over the years the agency worked on such brands as 
 RUTTENBERG--Derald. The faculty and staff of the Department of Medicine at large and the Division of Hematology/Oncology, deeply mourns the passing of our visionary benefactor, Derald H. Ruttenberg. His keen intellect, insightful curiosity, clever wit and compassionate generosity will forev
 SCHEUER--Walter. It is with profound sorrow that I mourn the death of my dear friend Wally whose friendship I shared for over forty years. His passion for music and philanthropy paved the way for talented artists from all over the world. I extend my heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife
 VOGEL--Eugene L. On September 20, 2004. Loving husband of Sara. Loving father of Jennifer Liling and Amanda Jane, and of their husbands Robert Davis and Michael Gallacher. Memorial service Sunday, 4PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 St, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be 
 WEINBAUM -- David. We mourn the passing of an extraordinary man, a true gentleman. There was no more devoted husband, father, grandfather, great - grand father and brother. A noted antique importer for over 50 years, he was a decorated veteran of WWII. He will always be remembered for his k
 WYNER--Jay S., 83, of Sands Point, NY died on September 20, 2004. Adored husband of Ethel; beloved father of Shari and Richard Narva and Janis and Paul Sheinkopf; dear grandfather of Matthew, Laura, Arielle, Zachary, Josh, Jamie, Sarah and Shoshi; and loving brother of Ruth Schwartzberg, Do
 YOST--Irving Irving Yost died gently Tuesday evening at Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. Irving established the Turning Point Inn in Gt. Barrington with his wife Shirley (deceased 1993). He will be missed by his loving partner Jane, his siblings Lee, Jessie, Harry & Phil, his c
 Russ Meyer, whose 1960's fantasy films about the antics of giant-breasted, often assertive women were among the first ''nudies'' to have a story line but who later flirted with respectability when his style of filmmaking became influential in the mainstream movie industry, died on Saturday 
 James E. Beasley, a lawyer who won millions of dollars in jury verdicts in major cases, including an unpaid $104 million judgment stemming from the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Villanova, Pa. His death was announced 
 AIKEN--Dan. The entire St. Luke's - Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with great sadness the untimely passing of our beloved colleague Dan Aiken, site director of security at St. Luke's Hospital. Dan's wonderful sense
 BARNES--Edward Larrabee. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our Trustee Edward Larrabee Barnes. Ed was of a generation of architects who were steeped in modernism at Harvard and inspired by Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer. He is often first identified with
 HOENE--Burkhard. 46, beloved son, brother, and adored friend of many, died peacefully at home on September 21, 2004 of pancreatic cancer. Born on December 10, 1957, he was raised in New Hampshire. In 1981, he graduated from UVM and began his career in fashion at Brooks Brothers. He was foun
 LAWRENCE--Robert L. On September 23, 2004 at age 84. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Peter and Steven. Devoted grandfather of Vanessa and John. Dear brother of Howard. Private interment at West Point. Contributions in his memory to the Kerry-Edwards Campaign would be appreciat
 PALL--David B., Ph.D. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Dr. David Pall. Dr. Pall was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory from 1987 through 1993 and was an integral part of the expansion marking our second c
 ROSENSTOCK--Robert. International lawyer, legal advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, member of the International Law Commission, died of natural causes on September 20. Mr. Rosenstock is survived by his wife of 34 years, Gerda Michorl Rosenstock, daughter Elizabeth Rosenstock-
 WEST--Eric Fowler, 80, of Lyme, CT and Holderness, NH died September 21, 2004, at home after a long illness. He graduated from Harvard with the class of 1946 after serving in WWII as a fighter pilot with the Army Air Force. Mr. West was associated with Alcan, an international aluminum compa
 WULWICK--Samuel. Devoted husband to Cynthia and Ronne Wohl Wulwick. Loving father to Joan and Kenneth Kastin, Kenneth and Ronnie Wulwick, and Dr. Robert and Doreen Wulwick. Caring grandfather to David and Abby, Lynn, Billy and Berta, Jennifer, Leslie, Amy, Stefanie and Emily. Adoring greatg
 Ralph Kenneth Andrist, a historian, author and editor who wrote the classic ''The Long Death: The Last Days of the Plains Indian,'' died on Sunday at his home in Lynnwood, Wash. He was 90 and worked in New York for most of his career. His death was announced by family members, who s
 Stephen Baker, who created the ''Let your fingers do the walking'' ad campaign for the Yellow Pages and advised readers on how to live with a neurotic dog, died in Manhattan on Sept. 13. He was 83. The cause was cancer of the gastrointestinal tract, his son, Scott, said. As 
 Nigel Nicolson, the biographer and publisher and heir of the Bloomsbury group whose best-known work, ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' documented the loving, tumultuous union of his unconventional parents, Harold Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West, died on Thursday at his home in Sissinghurst Castl
 BARNES--Edward Larrabee. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our Trustee Edward Larrabee Barnes. Ed was of a generation of architects who were steeped in modernism at Harvard and inspired by Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer. He is often first identified with
 BECKWITH--Leo. The officers, trustees and members of Ocean Beach Club mourn the passing of their friend and member and send heartfelt condolences to his family. Nancy Lobell, President Nancy Bach, Secretary       
 ALLEN -- George. (AKA George Axiltree). Passed away September 21, 2004. One of New York's premier singing teachers. Worked at HB Studio and his own private practice. Member of Actors' Equity and the Dramatists Guild. Popular teacher/ writer and lover of museums, Broadway shows, nature and l
 Richard S. Arnold, a federal appeals court judge who issued influential rulings involving individual rights and narrowly missed a Supreme Court nomination, died on Thursday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68. The cause was an infection he contracted while being treated
 Dr. David B. Pall, a chemist who invented dozens of sophisticated filters, most notably for purifying blood for transfusions, died Tuesday at his home in Roslyn Estates, N.Y. He was 90. He died of complications of Alzheimer's disease, his daughter Ellen said. Dr. Pall receiv
 Marvin H. Davis, a billionaire who amassed his fortune through well-timed deals in the oil and entertainment industries, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a family spokesman said. He was 79. Mr. Davis died of natural causes, said the spokesman, Michael Sitrick. Fr
 ANSELMI--Jose L. November 29, 1949-September 11, 2004. Born in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. Jose moved to New York City in 1969 and attended FIT. Jose worked his entire professional life as a respected and much loved hair designer for Jeniette's, Seventh Heaven, Bluni Rea, and Barney's NY, among
 AQUILONE--Peter N. On September 22, 2004, at age 34. Beloved son of Carmen and Edward, brother of Edward and Matthew. A life of good works unfinished. He joins his brothers Michael and Vincent; another star in Heaven. A graduate of Bishop Ford High School, Fordham University and Benjamin Ca
 BAILEY--Lynn Gordon, Jr. (''Gordie'') of Dallas, TX died tragically in his sleep the morning of September 17, 2004, at 18 years of age in Boulder, CO where he had recently enrolled as a freshman at the University of Colorado, Leeds School of Business. In his short time at the University, Go
 BAKER--Stephen, age 83, died September 17, 2004. Advertising Executive. Author of 22 books including two bestsellers with over 200,000 copies sold: ''How to Live with a Neurotic Dog'' and ''How to Play Golf in the low 120s''. Twice nominated as Art Director of the Year by the National Socie
 BARNES--Edward Larrabee. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our Trustee Edward Larrabee Barnes. Ed was of a generation of architects who were steeped in modernism at Harvard and inspired by Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer. He is often first identified with
 BAROUCH -- Dennis Alan, Ph.D. Passed away September 24, 2004 in Riverdale, NY at age 52. Graduate of Columbia University, Ph.D. in Psychology from Yeshiva University. Loving father of Oren, and Jessie, beloved son of the late Herman N. and Edna Barouch. Devoted brother of Norman, (Laurie) a
 BERGER--Charles, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, formerly of Highland Park, IL died peacefully September 22, 2004 following a long illness. Decorated WWII veteran. Preceded in death by his wife Thelma (nee Goldsmith). Survived by his children Susan and Philip. Services private. Memorials to SUNY
 CASTAGNETTA--Luigi, Ph.D. We were saddened to learn of the death in Palermo (September 16, 2004) of Prof. Luigi Castagnetta, renowned biomedical scientist. Our sympathy to his wife Maria and daughter Michela. Dr. and Mrs. H. Leon Bradlow       
 COLLIER--Reginald B. Reg Collier, businessman, philanthropist, horse lover, and owner died on September 15, 2004 in New York City. Mr. Collier was founder and Chairman of Research Systems Corporation, an Evansville based advertising research organization known across the world a The ARS Gro
 ECKMAN--Sidney, 86, of Greenwich, CT on September 21, 2004. Veteran WW II. Worked 48 years for MGM Pictures as Division Manager, Assistant to Senior V.P., Producer's Representative. Member of Will Rogers Motion Picture Pioneers, Variety Club, Motion Picture Association and Masons. We'll mis
 ELIAS--Eli. Beloved husband of Sara. Loving father of Roslyn Hazan, Allan and Richard. Adored grandfather to nine and great grandfather to ten. He was the beloved patriarch of our family and will be deeply missed. Services today, 10AM ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels'', 1450 Bdwy, Hewlett, L.I
 FLOATE--John A., 52, Sherman Oaks, Ca. Beloved son of Barbara Jakubec, NYC; wife Jackie, dear brother of Gretchen Floate Garrett, uncle of Ian and Timothy Garrett, Van Nuys, Ca; passed away July 31, 2004 of scleroderma. He was the President of Musikuser, music licensing, a graduate of Curry
 GRUNWALD--Frederic J., 85, of Franklin Lakes on September 22, 2004. Born in Vienna, Austria, he lived in Hillsdale before moving to Franklin Lakes 34 years ago. He was a decorated World War II Veteran of the United States Army Intelligence and was a member of the 10th Mountain Division. He 
 HOENE--Burkhard. 46, beloved son, brother, and adored friend of many, died peacefully at home on September 21, 2004 of pancreatic cancer. Born on December 10, 1957, he was raised in New Hampshire. In 1981, he graduated from UVM and began his career in fashion at Brooks Brothers. He was foun
 KENNEDY--Otto W., 98. Born Vienna, Austria, November 14, 1905, died August 12, 2004. A lawyer, like his father, Dr. Julius Knopfmacher, Otto left Vienna in 1938 after the Nazi invasion. He fled to England, then New York City,and retired to Los Angeles, Ca. He served in the US Air Force duri
 LAWRENCE--Robert L. On September 23, 2004 at age 84. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Loving father of Peter and Steven. Devoted grandfather of Vanessa and John. Dear brother of Howard. Private interment at West Point. Contributions in his memory to the Kerry-Edwards Campaign would be appreciat
 PEARL--Leonard P., 82, advertising executive, artist. Leonard Pearl died at home on September 18. He was President of Leonard Pearl, Inc., an advertising agency in Manhattan, whose clients included Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall. Immediately after graduating from CCNY in 1942, Leonard enl
 ROSENBERG--Stanton L. Age 48, on September 17, 2004, in his home in Morristown, NJ, after a long illness. Born in NYC. Owned and operated printing company Chameleon Editions. Attended Kansas University, BA degree 1980. Survived by wife, Roberta Duty, mother Josephine Rosenberg, sister Maria
 ROSENSTOCK--Robert. International lawyer, legal advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, member of the International Law Commission, died of natural causes on September 20. Mr. Rosenstock is survived by his wife of 34 years, Gerda Michorl Rosenstock, daughter Elizabeth Rosenstock-
 SAGE--Leslie. On September 17, 2004. Brother of Bill. Uncle and grand-uncle. He will be deeply missed. Memorial Service Tuesday, 3pm, at Holy Trinity Church, 213 West 82nd St, New York, NY. Contributions to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.       
 TROTTER--Judd J. Husband of Grace. Died in Penn Valley, CA. Formerly of Brooklyn and Neponsit, NY. He is survived by daughters, Jane Oleson and Lucy Bottrell, and four grandchildren. Predeceased by grandson Timothy.       
 WULWICK--Samuel. Devoted husband to Cynthia and Ronne Wohl Wulwick. Loving father to Joan and Kenneth Kastin, Kenneth and Ronnie Wulwick, and Dr. Robert and Doreen Wulwick. Caring grandfather to David and Abby, Lynn, Billy and Berta, Jennifer, Leslie, Amy, Stefanie and Emily. Adoring greatg
 WUNDERLICH -- Rudolf G. The staff of the Gerald Peters Gallery is deeply saddened by the passing of Rudolf G. Wunderlich on September 22. A preeminent dealer in American Art, Rudy was a great friend and mentor. We will sincerely miss his wisdom and laughter. Our most heartfelt sympathies to
 Dr. Raja Ramanna, an eminent physicist and developer of India's nuclear bomb program who played a major role in the country's first nuclear test in 1974, died on Friday morning at Bombay Hospital. He was 79. The cause was internal bleeding in the stomach, said Dr. B.K. Goyal, honora
 W. Dorwin Teague, an industrial designer and inventor who built, quite literally, the stuff of everyday life, died on Sept. 16 in Carbondale, Colo. He was 94. He lived in Carbondale, after spending many years as a resident of Nyack, N.Y. Mr. Teague's son Harry announced the death.  
 Marvin H. Davis, a billionaire who amassed his fortune through well-timed deals in the oil and entertainment industries, died Saturday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a family spokesman said. He was 79. Mr. Davis died of natural causes, said the spokesman, Michael Sitrick. Fri
 BLASENHEIM--Paul. On September 24, 2004, at the age of 80, of Lambertville, NJ. Beloved husband of his beautiful wife of 59 years, Gloria. Best father of all time to his daughters, Lois, Laura, Joanne and Beth. Adored grandfather of Max and Alex. ''Pinny'' to his family and friends in the B
 ELIAS--Eli. The officers and members of the New York Skirt & Sportswear Association, Inc. record with profound sorrow the passing of Eli Elias, retired President and Executive Director of the Association. For many decades, he devoted his energy and ability to the advancement of the interest
 MARTON--Richard, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Department of Medicine and the entire staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their deep sorrow at the death of Richard Marton, M.D., a distinguished member of our staff for over 54 years. Dr. Marton was a dedicated physician who was greatly admired
 O'NEILL--John T. Of Chatham Township on September 24, 2004. Mr. O'Neill is survived by his beloved wife, Jane Byrnes O'Neill and seven children: John O'Neill of Austin, TX, Nancy Brooks of Duxbury, MA, Peter O'Neill of Millburn, NJ, Stephen O'Neill of Ponte Vedra, FL, Susan Guiliano of Bask
 SAGE--Leslie. On September 17, 2004. Brother of Bill. Uncle and grand-uncle. He will be deeply missed. Memorial Service Tuesday, 3pm, at Holy Trinity Church, 213 West 82nd St, New York, NY. Contributions to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.       
 WILSON--David Anthony III. Age twenty-one, died on Wednesday, September 22, 2004, in the Adirondack Park near Wells, NY. Majoring in computer science, David was a senior at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, NY. David attended the Episcopal School and Trinity School in New York City.
 Pete Schoening, who became a mountaineering legend after saving a rope team of six men by single-handedly holding their weight on the sheer slope of K2, the world's second-highest peak, died Wednesday at his home in Kenmore, Wash. He was 77. The cause was bone cancer, his wife, Mell
 Eli Elias, a clothing manufacturer and leader of the New York City garment industry, died on Friday in Hollywood, Fla. He was 92. The cause was a stroke, his grandson, Dan, said. As president and executive director of the New York Skirt and Sportswear Association for several
 AULD--Robert M. On September 26, age 74 in Albany, NY. Born and raised in the New York City area, where he began his legal career. Devoted husband of Juana, father of Karla Pingeton, Robert Auld Jr., Alexandra Pinheiro and John Iglesias. Proud grandfather. Dear brother of Annette Kaicher. F
 BORENSTEIN--Milton C., of Brookline, MA entered into rest September 23, 2004. Husband of the late Anne (Shapiro) Borenstein. Devoted father of Roberta Borenstein of Wilton, CT and Jeffrey Borenstein of West Newton. Brother of Shirley Bloom of Brookline. Cherished grandfather of three. Servi
 GOSLINER--Bertram J., MD, 89 of NYC. Prominent psychoanalyst. Beloved husband of Julia Gosliner; father of Kathy Gosliner and Denise Gosliner Orenstein; grandfather of Brendan, Laura, Jennifer, and Lisa. Brotherin-law Joseph Kotler; sistersin-law, Barbara Kotler and Jean Erdheim. Born Novem
 HAMBERGER--Harry. 96, of White Plains, NY, loving husband of Anne, beloved father of Barnett Hamberger, and Judith Lewis. Adored grandfather of Joshua, Elizabeth, and Samantha Lewis, and Jennifer Berkey, caring father-in-law of Jeffrey Lewis, and grandfather-in-law of Steve Berkey. He is al
 LIPTON--Henry. On September 27, 2004 at the age of 69. Beloved husband of 45 years to Marion. Loving father of Dana and Joanna and fatherin-law of Americo. Cherished grandfather of Victoria Rose. Devoted brother of Marjorie Navarro. Supervisor of School Psychologists in District 22, Brookly
 O'NEILL--John, 75, of Chatham Township, on September 24, 2004. John O'Neill is survived by his wife, Jane Byrnes O'Neill, seven children; sons, John, Peter, Stephen, Michael; daughters Nancy Brooks, Susan Giuliano, Mary - Jo Gagliardi. Two brothers, James and Robert and a sister, Julie O'Ne
 RAINE--Frederick. Died suddenly on September 26, 2004, at his home in New Rochelle. Beloved husband of Mary Jenness Raine. Loving father of Spencer and Evan. Loyal friend, gifted administrator, avid sportsman, devoted Yankee fan. Fred will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him. Ser
 RIBEIRO -- Ludgero. Also known as N'Koumba Karamoka. Died on Friday, September 24. Born March 21, 1945 in Lisbon, Portugal. Activist, bookseller, scholar, conversationalist, and affectionate friend of all who knew him. He will be missed by his family and neighbors in Brooklyn Heights and be
 ROOT--Arthur, M.D. The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Arthur Root, past President of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Training and Supervising Analyst of the Institute. We extend our condolences to his entire family. Paul R
 SCHEUER -- Walter. The Swarthmore College community mourns the loss of its distinguished and beloved alumnus Walter Scheuer. Wally, individual connection by individual connection, helped build a global world and, through education, business, music, dance, and film, succeeded in bridging dif
 SECHZER--Philip H., M.D., 90. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Anesthesiologist and internationally recognized medical researcher devoted to easing pain and reducing suffering. Director of Anesthesiology, Maimonides Medical Center, New York, 1966-1986. Services will be held at Plaza
 WIENER--William. With a profound sense of loss, we mourn the passing of Saba Raba and coach, Mr. William Wiener. He impacted thousands, teaching values, integrity, ethics and dedication to community. We will sorely miss him and aspire to live up to his legacy. Our boys were all his children
 WULWICK--Samuel. Hineni is saddened by the death of Sam Wulwick, husband of the late Ronne Wohl Wulwick, and extends condolences to the Wulwick Kastin family. May his memory be for a blessing. Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis President Barbara Janov, Exec Di       
 Gardner Botsford, a veteran editor at The New Yorker magazine who helped shape its reputation and its style under the longtime editorship of William Shawn, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was bone marrow disease, said his wife, the author Janet Malcolm. In 
 Geoffrey Beene, a single-minded innovator who put fashion above commerce yet succeeded in making a business from originality, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Russell Nardozza, vice president of
 BECKWITH--Leo. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Leo Beckwith. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary       
 BORENSTEIN--Milton C., of Brookline, Massachusetts entered into rest September 23, 2004. Husband of the late Anne (Shapiro) Borenstein. Devoted father of Roberta Borenstein of Wilton, CT and Jeffrey Borenstein of West Newton. Brother of Shirley Bloom of Brookline. Cherished grandfather of t
 BOTSFORD -- Gardner. On September 27, 2004. Survived by wife, Janet Malcolm, daughters Susan Workum and Margot Botsford, stepdaughter Anne Malcolm, four grandchildren and one great grandchild. A memorial service will be held at a future date. Countributions in his memory may be made to Plan
 BRASS--Ralph L. All the members of the Board of Directors of the Friars Foundation mourn the passing of their esteemed longtime Board member, Ralph L. Brass. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held on Wednesday, September 29, at 11:00 A.M. in the BernheimApter
 GOSLINER--Bertram J., MD, 89 of NYC. Prominent psychoanalyst. Beloved husband of Julia Gosliner; father of Kathy Gosliner and Denise Gosliner Orenstein; grandfather of Brendan, Laura, Jennifer, and Lisa. Brotherin-law Joseph Kotler; sistersin-law, Barbara Kotler and Jean Erdheim. Born Novem
 HARRIS--Irving Brooks. A beloved gentle giant, a hero for our times. He chose to champion the cause of those who have no voice -- babies, young children and their families, especially those in poverty. With his passion, curiosity, brilliance, tireless advocacy and generosity, Irving Harris 
 LIEDERMAN--Donald E. 83, died September 23, Beverly Hills, CA, from complications connected with diabetes. Born in Chicago, he attended St. John's Military Academy, graduated from the Wharton School, and in 1943 entered the Navy where he commanded a minesweeper in the Pacific and won numero
 LINK--James C. Of Greenwich, CT. passed away suddenly on September 9, 2004 at the age of 48. He is survived by his wife, Kathleen. Memorial services will be private. Memorial donations may be made to American Cancer Society.       
 MUNTER--Paul. Sincere condolences and heartfelt sorrow to Beverly, his beloved wife and soul mate of 50 years, and to his dear children and grandchildren Rick, Holly, Cindy, Andrew, Lyndsey, Brian and Lauren. They were the center of his universe. Paul was a gentle giant who led an exemplary
 NETTER--Arthur B. Died September 28, 2004. Survived by his son Andrew Netter and daughter Lisa Kelly, brothers Richard and Edward Netter. Funeral private on October 1.       
 PRICE--Aubrey Stuart. Died on September 25, 2004, age 79 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Liv for 51 years and father of Helen and Eric. Grandfather of Alistair, Amanda, Kate, Victoria and Jessica. Was vice president and director of Vlasov Group, Inc., president of V. Ships (USA) In
 SIEVER--Raymond. Died Friday, September 24, in Cambridge, MA, age 81. Husband of Doris (Fisher) Siever. Father of Larry Siever and his wife Lissa Weinstein of Irvington, NY, and Michael Siever of San Francisco, CA. Grandfather of David Siever and Daniel Siever of Irvington, New York. Memori
 WUNDERLICH -- Rudolf G. Art dealer and stamp collector passed away peacefully on September 22, 2004. Born in Tarrytown, NY in 1920, Rudy graduated from Hackley School in Tarrytown, and then proceeded into the family art business. As president of Kennedy Galleries, Rudolf Wunderlich was a le
 Tsai Wan-lin, a financier and the wealthiest man in Taiwan, died on Monday in Taipei, his family told Agence France-Presse. His age was variously reported as 79, 80 and 81. The cause was a liver ailment, news agencies reported. Mr. Tsai was founder of the Lin-Yuan Group, whi
 Dr. John E. Mack, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Harvard psychiatrist who studied people who said they had encounters with alien beings, died in London on Monday. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Mack was struck by a driver suspected of being drunk and evidently died on impa
 Mulk Raj Anand, a renowned figure among Indian writers in English whose works depicted the lives of people in India's traditional society, an art critic and an educator, died at Jehandir hospital in Pune on Tuesday. He was 99. The death was announced by Ram Gohar, his nurse.
 BEENE--Geoffrey. We note with sorrow the passing of our esteemed client, Geoffrey Beene. Mr. Beene was a perennially elegant fixture in the fashion industry for 50 years, the consummate gentleman and a timeless classic. We extend our condolences to the entire Geoffrey Beene family. Eisikovi
 BOTSFORD -- Gardner. Planned Parenthood of New York City, its Board of Directors, Council of Advocates and Staff mourn the death of Gardner Botsford, a loyal and generous supporter of our work. We are grateful for Mr. Botsford's personal generosity and unwavering support of our mission. We 
 FOGARTY--James E., Esq. Reiss Corp. mourns the death of its Director Jim Fogarty, and acknowledges with deep appreciation his enormous contribution to every aspect of the corporation and to the Reiss family. Jim joined Reiss as in-house counsel in 1947 and remained a Director until his deat
 HALLORAN--Leo A., former vice-president of General Electric and chief financial officer at GE Capital who pioneered a wave of innovative financing structures throughout the 1980's, died from cancer on Tuesday at his home in Guilford, CT. Born on April 2, 1931 in Schenectady, NY, Mr. Hallora
 HARRIS--Irving B. A courageous champion of young children and families, an articulate and uncompromising social critic, a compassionate pragmatist. His convictions inspired the work of four generations of practitioners and researchers in the field of child development and early care and edu
 NETTER--Arthur B. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Arthur B. Netter, beloved brother of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Richard Netter, a member of th
 STRAUSS--Michael. Service Guild of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourns the passing of Michael Strauss. He is survived by his wife, Anne, longtime board member, and his two sons Dr. Richard Strauss and Mr. Robert Strauss. Our sincere condolences to the family.       
 Scott Muni, a disc jockey whose deep, leisurely, fogbound voice was a regular companion to New York City rock fans for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 74 and had not returned to the air after suffering a stroke in January. His death was confirmed by his son Maso
 Walter Scheuer, a New York investor and patron of the arts who produced the Oscar-winning documentary ''From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China'' among other films, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Manhattan, his family announced. He was 82. At his death, Mr. Scheuer was chairman of
