 Bernard Green, who began hawking newspapers on the streets and subways at 11 and never quite got over being a newsboy -- even when he became the owner of one of New York City's biggest chains of newsstands -- died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 91. His son Michael said he died at 
 Dr. J. Desmond Clark, an authority on ancient Africa and a leader of archaeological expeditions that helped outline the history of the continent as well as the history of humans, died on Feb. 14 in Oakland, Calif. He was 85 and retired from a  professorship at the University of California a
 BASKIR-Philip. On February 27, 2002. A retired fund-raiser for North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. Beloved husband of Sylvia Warren. Loving father and father-in-law of Lawrence and Marna and Mark and Carol. Dear brother of the late Irving Cohen and brother-in-law of Phyllis. Adori
 BURG-Robert, 72, videographer. Born July 13, 1929; died February 8, 2002. Survived by Barbara, Mark, Samantha, Heather, Jordan, Cigi and Joan. Wonderful son, father, grandfather, friend and lover. He never stopped living. He will be missed.       
 Du VAL-Clive Livingston II, 89. Died at his home in McLean, Virginia. Senator Du Val served in the Virginia House of Delegates and in the Virginia Senate for a total of 26 years. He served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy during WWII, serving on the USS Lexington in the Pacific. After 
 JACKSON-Lee. ''Direct Descendent of the Eight'' of the Ashcan School, died on February 19, in Southhampton, NY at the age of 93. He loved the human figure, male and female, especially in motion. He delighted in everyday things like the ''Noble Horse'' whether pulling a wagon or running the 
 KATZ-Benjamin N. The Partners & Employees of Kofler, Levenstein, Romanotto & Co., CPA's, P.C., mourn the death of their retired & Founding Partner, Benjamin N. Katz. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Charlotte, his daughters Betty and Bunny & their families, and the family of his
 KAYE-Emanuel, 91. On February 28. He is survived by his loving children Bill & Bob Kaye, Barbara Frankel & Cheryl Jackman; caring daughter-in-law Linda Kaye and son-in-law Ronald Frankel; his beloved grandchildren Merri Yacenda, Elliot Kaye, Mitchell Kaye, Marcy Sinel, Jessica Milan; and ch
 LANS-Asher Bob. At home on February 27, 2002; a native New Yorker; the son of Sophie Bob and Arthur Lans of Bristol Antiques; survived by wife Peggy Clancy & her loving family, his daughter, Deborah E. Lans, his son and daughter-in-law, Stephen & Maria Lans, his son, Alan B. Lans and his da
 LOTT - Reverend Robert V. 1939-2002. Father Lott was a visionary who saw outside of normal boundaries. He dedicated his life to teaching others to help themselves and their communities. Driven by the social gospel to serve those in need, he was a vigorous advocate for programs benefiting th
 MELLI-Charles R., Jr. Age 59. Of Ridgewood and Sea Girt, N.J. Died February 26, 2002. Loving husband of Sheila O'Shea Melli. Cherished father and hero of Kathleen Mary Melli and the late Andrew Shea Melli (June 2001). Big brother and best friend of Mark A. and Jan Melli. Dear son of the lat
 NATH-Jack H. On February 28, 2002. Survived by his beloved wife Janice Puner-Nath, and his beloved children Barbara Nath Gold, Ronald Nath and Robert Nath, and seven grandchildren. Services on Sunday, March 3rd, 1 P.M., at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. NATH-Jack H. C
 RUBE-Sidney, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a revered colleague of over four decades. A wonderful cantor who quietly and gently served the spiritual needs of his Congregation Shaare Zedek, of Southfield, Michigan for over thirty years with dignity, warmth an
 WALINSKY-Louis J. Economist and playwright, died peacefully in Washington, DC, on December 24, 2001, at the age of 93. Walinsky was born in London, the son of the labor leader Ossip J. Walinsky and the sculptress and author Rosa Newman Walinsky. Coming to America in 1915, he attended Cornel
 WEISELBERG-Marvin. The faculty and staff of Schneider Children's Hospital's Division of Adolescent Medicine in the Department of Pediatrics mourn the loss of Marvin Weiselberg, father of our colleague and friend, Eric C. Weiselberg, MD. We offer our condolences to his entire family.        
 John L. S. Holloman Jr., a doctor who in his private practice, in leadership roles with medical associations and as head of New York City's hospitals battled for health care for the poor, died on Wednesday in Queens. He was 82 and lived in East Elmhurst, Queens. The cause was a stro
 Fred Decré, former co-owner of the Manhattan restaurant La Caravelle, died on Feb. 20 in Palm Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 82. He had a heart ailment, his colleague Roger Fessaguet said. He was born in Illinois and grew up in France and Italy. He returned to the Unit
 HOLLOMAN-John L.S., Jr. Beloved husband of Patricia. Loving father of Charlotte Wesley Holloman, Paul Stefan Leo, Karin Leo Madson, Laura Ann Holloman, & Ellen Victoria Holloman. Reposing at Benta's Funeral Home, 630 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York, NY. Visiting Sunday, 2-6PM, followed by fun
 KLEIN-Richard L., 48. Of New York City, died February 28, 2002. Rick was a distinguished and most valued partner and friend to his colleagues at Willkie, Farr & Gallagher and a cherished friend to many. Rick is survived by his children, Sarah, Lauren and Andrew; his mother, Marlys; sister, 
 LANS-Asher Bob. At home on February 27, 2002; a native New Yorker; the son of Sophie Bob and Arthur Lans of Bristol Antiques; survived by wife Peggy Clancy & her loving family, his daughter, Deborah E. Lans, his son and daughter-in-law, Stephen & Maria Lans, his son, Alan B. Lans and his da
 LOTT-Robert Reverend. We at Herrick, Feinstein LLP wish to pay tribute to Reverend Robert V. Lott, an extraordinary person and treasured client. Father Lott cared deeply about those in need, including particularly the elderly and the poor, and just as important, developed practical ways of 
 NATH-Jack H. Of Purchase, NY on February 28, 2002 in Boston, MA. Beloved husband of Janice Puner-Nath of New York, NY to whom he was married in 1997, and former husband of the late Claire Solomon Nath. Beloved father of Dr. Barbara J. Nath-Gold of Brookline, MA, Dr. Ronald L. Nath of Winche
 STONE-Percy Norwood, 71. Of New Hartford, CT died unexpectedly in his home on Wednesday, February 27th. Percy (known by all as ''Possum'') was born on January 8, 1931 in New York City. He was the son of the late Percy and Margaret Stone of Westport, CT. Possum grew up in Westport and lived 
 Stanislav Libensky, the Czech artist who with his wife, Jaroslava Brychtova, transformed glass from tabletop decoration to a serious art form in architecture and sculpture, died on Feb. 24 in Zelezny Brod, Czech Republic. He was 80. Having started his career in 1945 as a teacher at 
 Arthur Lyman, a Hawaiian vibraphonist who squawked, rattled, thumped, hooted and cawed his way to the top of the world of Polynesian mood music in the 1950's and early 1960's, died on Feb. 24 in Honolulu. He was 70 and had been regularly performing his old hits -- including his signature tu
 ARCADI-Antony. Of Brooklyn on March 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Linda (nee Squiciarino). Loving father of Antony Philip and Jackie. Cherished son of Carmela Arcadipane. Fond brother of Mariann. Adored grandfather of Gabrielle. Antony was a C.P.A. and professor at Brooklyn College, where he 
 BEARD-Josephus Simmons II. Former President of IBM World Trade Corporation Asia and United States Navy Lieutenant Commander, WW II and Korea. Died March 4th, 2002 in Jacksonville, FL. Former resident of Rye, NY, Atlanta, GA, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 59 years to Jean Ote
 BRADBERRY-Edward. General Director of Augusta Opera. Cherished husband, father, grandfather, opera mentor and friend. He brought beauty to our world. Died February 24. Augusta Opera Board of Directors       
 BURKE-Matthew B., 32. Died suddenly on Feb. 26, 2002, in Chapel Hill, NC. Formerly of Larchmont, NY. He is survived by John and Linda Burke of Larchmont. Dear brother of Alison Burke and Christine Burke Vetrone, and brother-in-law of Louis Vetrone. Loving uncle of Abigail Vetrone. Visitatio
 CALVERT-Seymour, Ph.D Chemical Engineering. Pioneer in air pollution control and education. Died February 25, 2002 in San Diego, CA. Born January 9, 1924 in Detroit, MI. Internationally recognized as the foremost expert on air pollution control scrubbers. He has lectured throughout the worl
 CARR-Paul E., Sr. Former Executive Vice President Goodall Fabrics. Died March 4, 2002 in Danbury, CT at the age of 98. Husband of the late Mildred Brenner Carr. Beloved father of Paul Jr., Nancy Carr, Joan Eggert and Virginia Kops. Devoted grandfather of Ambrose Carr III, Paul Carr III, Chr
 CHARNOFF-Stanley. The Maimonides Medical Center family extends our deepest sympathy on the passing of Dr. Stanley Charnoff, a longtime member of our medical staff, having served Maimonides for nearly four decades. To his son Judah, also a member of our medical staff, and the entire Charnoff
 CHARNOFF-Stanley, M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Stanley Charnoff. Dr. Charnoff was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Medicine for many years. He will be sorely missed by all his friends, patients an
 COHN-Michael, 69, of Scarsdale, on March 3, 2002. He is survived by his wife Suzanne Hazen Cohn, his sons Thomas (Victoria Craven) and Peter, his sister Rita Wienshienk, and three grandchildren. A graduate of University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Law School, Mr. Cohn was a literary agent. 
 DENTON-Robert W. Death at age 87 came February 18, 2002 to Robert W. Denton, who owned and managed General Motors automobile dealerships, including a Cadillac/Olds dealership in Kingston, New York. He leaves his widow, Dacia, and eight children. Memorials: to Manhattanville College, or the 
 DONNER-Isaac Cohen. Born Thanksgiving Day, 1899, in NYC. Was married 60 years to Ray Breakstone Donner. He is survived by daughters Rose-Anne Donner Colt and Judith Donner Hancock. He was a graduate of NY Law School, an attorney, and a founding member of the National Lawyers Guild. Active i
 DRORBAUGH-Wells Jr., 81. Died Sunday, February 17, 2002. He is survived by a daughter and son-inlaw, Hilary and Michael Propst; a son and daughter-in-law, Daniel and Marilyn Drorbaugh and their children Thomas and Katharine, two brothers, Dr. James Drorbaugh and Leonard Drorbaugh, and many 
 EPSTEIN-Joseph B. Died on March 2, 2002, in Carlsbad, California, at the age of 85. He founded National Machinery Exchange in New York City. He was beloved by his wife of 57 years, Lila; his children, Sydele, Lawrence and Nina, and Harvey (deceased); and his grandchildren, Maggie Golston, J
 FISCHER-David. Age 102. Beloved husband of Freda and the late Shevelin. Devoted father of Joan and Larry Butwin, Ruth and Marvin Fischer, adored grandfather and loving great-grandfather. Loved by all who knew him.       
 FORRESTER-Donal F., CSP. On March 4, 2002 at age 95. He was born and raised in New York City. Fr. Donal made first promises to the Paulist Fathers on June 16, 1930 and was ordained in St. Patrick's Cathedral by then Cardinal Hayes on May 25, 1934. A proud veteran, his assignments included t
 FOXEN-William A. Of Laurel Hollow, NY, died March 4, 2002 at the age of 85. Mr. Foxen was born to William and Mary Foxen of Brooklyn, NY, on July 19, 1916. He was a graduate of the Brooklyn Technological High School, and attended New York University and Columbia University. In 1940 Mr. Foxe
 FRANKEL-Hon. Marvin E. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of the Hon. Marvin E. Frankel, who served as chairman of the Board of Directors of Cardozo from 1979 to 1981 and played a significant role in the strengthening of the law school. A former m
 FRANKEL-Marvin E. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of Judge Marvin E. Frankel, beloved husband of Dr. Alice Kross Frankel, Director Emerita and Chief Psychiatrist of our Child Development Cent
 FRENCH - Raymond. Passed away suddenly on Wednesday, February 20th, 2002, in Jupiter Island, Florida. Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, he attended Yale University and was graduated in the class of 1946 from the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. He was the former President and CEO of Canal Randolph
 GALCHUS-Robert P., The Rev., C.M., died at St. Catherine's Infirmary, Philadelphia, PA on March 3, 2002. He is survived by his sisters, Helen Galchus and Antonina ''Tess'' Reseska. Viewing will be held at the Community Chapel, Vincentian Residence of St. John's University, 8000 Utopia Parkw
 GENNET-Abram R., 89. Longtime resident of West Orange, NJ. Passed away peacefully on February 21. Born in Newark, graduated Southside High School, Yale University ('33) and attended Columbia Law School, LLB from Rutgers. Fought in Europe in WWII. Awarded a Bronz Star. As 2nd Lieutenant, was
 GRANDIN-John L. Of Chestnut Hill, February 25, 2002. Officer of The Gillette Company. Beloved husband of the late Susanne P. W. Grandin and loving father of John L., III and his wife Anne of Chestnut Hill, Edward W. of Jamaica Plain and Preston E. and his wife Susan of Chestnut Hill. Also s
 HEFTER-Charles S. Died on March 5, 2002 at the age of 94. He retired from the practice of law at the age of 90. He was beloved by Rose, his wife of 69 years, his daughter Ruth and her husband Sid Lapidus, his son Larry (''Chick'') and his wife Jackie, his grandchildren Scott Hefter and his 
 HUGHES-John Richard, (Jack). On Feb. 26, 2002 in Montreal, age 88. Born in Vonda, Saskatchewan. Son of the industrious William Richard from Wales & the intrepid Anthonia Gertra Van der Loo from Holland. Beloved husband of the late Agnes Annie Barclay; cherished father of Dr. John Barclay Hu
 KERNER-Edward H. Died at home in Newark, Delaware, on Feb. 11, 2002, of myelofibrosis. Dr. Kerner was Emeritus Professor of Physics at the University of Delaware, having retired in 1999 after 37 years of service as a Professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Dr. Kerner was born 
 KLEIN-Richard L., 48. Of New York City, died February 28, 2002. Rick was a distinguished and most valued partner and friend to his colleagues at Willkie, Farr & Gallagher and a cherished friend to many. Rick is survived by his children, Sarah, Lauren and Andrew; his mother, Marlys; sister, 
 LANS-Asher Bob. At home on February 27, 2002; a native New Yorker; the son of Sophie Bob and Arthur Lans of Bristol Antiques; survived by wife Peggy Clancy & her loving family, his daughter, Deborah E. Lans, his son and daughter-in-law, Stephen & Maria Lans, his son, Alan B. Lans and his da
 LEVINE-Irving J. Died March 4, 2002, at the age of 89 in Princeton, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Thome Levine for 61 years, he is survived by his son Richard J. Levine, daughter Nancy L. Castro, sister Pauline L. Rosenblum; four grandchildren, Jonathan D. Levine, Stephani
 MACHSCHEFES-Herbert. Joined his beloved wife Hilda in heaven on December 22, 2001. He is survived by his sister Gisela Nollstadt, his two children Karl Machschefes and Nora Soares, both of West Sacramento, and five grandchildren. Herbert was born in Berlin, Germany, on August 15, 1913. He l
 McKENZIE-James B. The Conneticut Theatre Foundation Board of Directors express deepest sympathy on the passing of James B. McKenzie, Executive Producer of the Westport Country Playhouse, Westport, CT, for 41 summer seasons (1959-1999), and a legend in the theatrical world. We extend our dee
 MERCER-James L. On Wednesday, February 27, 2002 of cancer. Much loved husband of Meredith. He is survived by son Michael, daughter Terrill Esposito (husband Michael, daughters Brielle and Brittany), son Mark (wife Kim and son Daniel) and son Andrew. A gathering of his friends & family is pl
 MESKIN-Julius. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Julius Meskin, father-in-law of Annette Meskin, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l President       
 MEYER-Harry. Little Neck Jewish Center mourns the death of its esteemed Past President Harry Meyer and extends condolences to his beloved wife, Shirley, and family.       
 MUSGROVE-Robert W. On February 28, 2002. Retired Superintendent of Schools. Beloved husband of Martha E. (nee Berkey). Devoted father of Robert H. and Claudia DePue. Father-in-law of Lisa Musgrove and grandfather of Jeremy Hosier and Jessica. Brother of Janet Grant of Los Angeles, CA. Memor
 PERELSON-Stephen, 60 of Cross River, New York passed away on February 27, 2002. Survived by his loving and devoted wife Carol, four sons Andrew and Adam Perelson, Aaron and Jeff Mace, daughter-in-law Melissa, brother Stuart, and also survived by sister and brother-in-law Arlene and Jack Lin
 PETTINATO-Lawrence G. Jr. Passed away peacefully Sunday, March 3rd at home with his loving wife and children at his bedside. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth N. (nee Brown) whom he cherished, his sons Lawrence III and Michael whom he adored, his loving parents Edith and Lawrence, Sr. an
 POLAND-Ted. Of Palm Beach, FL. and Swampscott, MA. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Phyllis of NYC, and Richard of Aspen, CO. Loving brother of Bess Finkle of Trenton, NJ. Cherished grandfather of Matthew Liebman. Services at the Stanetsky-Hymanson Memorial Chapel, 10 Vinnin St
 PYNER-Dr. Rubin. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Rubin Pyner. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 RODIE-Reverend Robert R., Jr., 79, of Lakeville, CT, died at Sharon Hospital, Sharon, CT, on March 3rd. He was rector of Christ Church, Riverdale, NY 1965-1984. Survived by his wife, Polly Wilmer Rodie, and two daughters, Elizabeth Rodie Jones of Meriden, CT, and Jean Rodie of Fanwood, NJ. 
 ROMEO-Andrew A. Passed on Mar. 2 in his 70th year. A man of great gusto, lover of life, successful in business, loyal friend, avid handball player and golfer. Loving husband and best friend of Lynne Romeo. Devoted father of Andrew Romeo, his wife Sandra, & Marco Romeo. Cherished grandfather
 ROSENBERG-David M. Of New York City, on Monday, February 25, 2002, at age 45. Beloved son of Beatrice and Alex, devoted brother of Ted, esteemed editor at The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. His positions included assistant foreign editor and deputy national editor of The Wall S
 ROSS-Harvey. Passed away Mon, March 4, 2002 in Aventura, FL. Son of immigrant parents, he started early learning the watch business and grew it into an international company. Very well loved here and abroad. A supporter of synagogues & other charities, member of Town Club and City Athletic 
 SCHIEFFELIN-John W. ''Jack'' of Lafayette, California peacefully passed away at home on February 22, 2002. His beloved wife of 38 years, Marion, was at his side. He is survived by his wife, Marion, son John and his wife Cathy, daughter Cynthia and her husband Barry and grandchildren Anna an
 SMITH-Charles Buchanan. Our elder partner, Charlie Smith, died suddenly in Delray Beach, Florida on February 24, 2002 at the age of 77. We mourn his passing. Charlie was born in New York, December 3, 1924, served his country in the Pacific Theater in W.W. II, completed his education after h
 STEIN-Dr. Sol, The Officers, Board members and entire family of the Israel Humanitarian Foundation are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Sol Stein of Miami, FL. He died on March 1, 2002, at the age of 96. Born in Vilna, Lithuania, Dr. Stein is survived by his beloved son, and was predec
 STUART-Francis H. Died in New York on March 3, age 76. Born in Cincinnati, OH, and grew up in the suburb of Glendale, Francis was the son of Archibald and Frances Stuart Marquette. He served in the Army in World War II and graduated from the School of Journalism at the University of Missour
 SWEENEY-John Patrick. Age 77, died on Thursday, February 28 at Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA; formerly of NY City, he was a resident of Crosslands since 1989. Born in Boston, MA, he was the son of the late Arthur and Mildred Louise Grimes Sweeney. Mr. Sweeney served as an ensign in the U.S
 UNDERWOOD-Eugene, Jr. Attorney, formerly of New York City, died February 26, 2002 in Costa Rica where he had lived since 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife, Margaret. UNDERWOOD-Eugene, Jr. Holland Lodge #       
 WAGNER-Vincent. Of Manhattan and Hurley, NY, on March 1, 2002. Guiding spirit of the Maverick Concert Series & beloved mentor of musicians everywhere. He was an inspiration to the Bloomingdale School of Music and Chamber Music America. It is a great loss to all of us who love music. He requ
 WEBB-William Osborn, 87. Died February 2, 2002 in Sharon, CT. Employed by the CIA from 1946 until 1963, he later served on the Boards of Directors of the American Crafts Council and the Sharon Hospital. Obbie is survived by his beloved wife, Lois; sons Killian O. Webb and Garrett Webb; brot
 YOUNG-Dr. Victor J. Of Green port, L.I. (formerly of Port Washington) on March 1, 2002 at the age of 88. Graduate of Albion College and the University of Iowa. Professor Emeritus at CUNY and Queensboro Community College. Former Vice-president of Hazeltine and Research Engineer with Sperry-R
 FREIBERG-Sam. 3/17/09-3/03/96. Sam Freiberg was a decent, honorable man who treated all people with respect, and hoped for a peaceful, just world. We mourn our loss but remain thankful for all the years he was with us. Loving Family and Friends       
 GOLDBERG-Harry. January 6, 1906-March 5, 1952 Remembered. His son, Stuart       
 David Hawkins, a philosopher of science who was an assistant to J. Robert Oppenheimer when he directed the Manhattan Project to build an atomic bomb and the official historian of the project, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 88. After the project, of which he was
 Harold Weisberg, an implacable critic of the government's investigation of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Frederick, Md. He was 88. A former journalist, investigator for the Senate Committee on Civil Liberties and analyst for t
 Herbert Houck, the World War II naval ace who directed the final attack on the battleship Yamato, the pride of the Japanese Navy, in the fighting for Okinawa, died on Feb. 24 in Cape Coral, Fla. He was 86. Five days after American troops began landing on Okinawa, and on the day that
 James B. McKenzie, the longtime executive producer of the Westport Country Playhouse in Westport, Conn., where he lived, and a force in regional and summer theater throughout the country, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 75. The cause was cancer and recurring p
 BLASS-Harold. An attorney for 62 years in White Plains, NY, passed away on Saturday, March 2, 2002. Harold was a devoted father, grandfather and husband, and considered family his top priority. He is surived by his wife Bertha, his daughters, Penny Kramon and Lynda Safron and four grandchil
 FISCHER-David. Age 102. Beloved husband of Freda and the late Shevelin. Devoted father of Joan and Larry Butwin, Ruth and Marvin Fischer, adored grandfather and loving great-grandfather. Loved by all who knew him. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, today, at 1:30 
 GADSDEN-Charles C. 78, of Pelham, NY, and Little Compton, RI, died Saturday, March 2, 2002. Husband of Marie Dittmann Gadsden for 55 years. He is survived by his loving wife, his six children, Charles, James, Lavinia, Victoria, Philip, Pamela and his eight grandchildren. A memorial service 
 GOLDBERG-Philip (Frankie). 90. Born April 11, 1911, in New York City, died February 28, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL. Dear husband of Marilyn. Beloved and loving uncle of Shep, Morty, Phyllis, the late Barbara, Bunny, Sue, Marlene, Marilyn, Howard, Norman, Rita, Polly, Marshall, Gail and Richard
 GRANDIN-John L. Of Chestnut Hill, February 25, 2002. Officer of The Gillette Company. Beloved husband of the late Susanne P. W. Grandin and loving father of John L., III and his wife Anne of Chestnut Hill, Edward W. of Jamaica Plain and Preston E. and his wife Susan of Chestnut Hill. Also s
 HAWLEY-Samuel W. Age 92, died on February 28, 2002 in Fairfield, CT. Mr. Hawley, a graduate of Yale and Harvard Business School, worked his entire business career at People's Bank, Bridgeport, CT, where he was the former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. For information con
 HOLLOMAN-Dr. John L. S. Jr. Columbia University's Health Sciences Division and the Columbia University Affiliation at Harlem Hospital Center salute the life and mourn the loss of Dr. John L. S. Holloman Jr., physician, servant of the Harlem community and Harlem Hospital Center, and leader i
 KARMON-Louis. 91, a prominent Manhattan restaurateur, owner of Chateau Henry IV and La Cave, died Friday in Florida. He is survived by his loving daughter Linda, son Robert, grandchildren Elysa and Jennifer, and his second wife Lois.       
 KAYE-Emanuel. The Board, staff and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC chapter, mourn the loss of Emanuel Kaye, father of our friend, colleague and CoPresident, William Kaye. He lived a long life of promise & fulfillment, leaving behind a legacy of accomplishment and a loving fam
 MANN-David A. At 85, on March 1, 2002. He is survived by his beloved wife Penny, his sons Jeffrey and Samuel, daughter-in-law Amy and future daughter-in-law Laura Pastor, his cherished grandchildren Jessica Gutteridge and Rachel Rosan and his great-grandson Raphael Leo Gutteridge. Memorial 
 PECK-Donald. The Officers, Members and Staff of the American Guild of Musical Artists, AFLCIO, the union that represents the singers and the dancers of the Metropolitan Opera, mourn the tragic loss of their friend and colleague Don Peck, who graciously gave his time and energy to the vigila
 SAPLIN-Stanley. Died March 1, 2002. Survived by his wife Gail Cooper-Hecht and his late wife Pearl and devoted daughters Anne, Elizabeth (Morsillo) and step-daughter Allison Hecht. Services today 12:15 at the Hebrew Union College, West 4th & Mercer Street.       
 UNDERWOOD-Eugene Jr. We are so saddened by the death of our cherished friend. Our thoughts and love go to his wonderful wife Margaret. Fred and Barbara Berman       
 Dr. Alvin Radkowsky, a nuclear engineer who developed a reactor fuel that does not generate waste that can be reused for nuclear weapons, died on Feb. 17 in Israel. He was 86. Born in the United States, Dr. Radkowsky was the chief American scientist for the design of nuclear reactor
 Leo Ornstein, a Russian-born composer and pianist who in the early 20th century was a leading figure of the American avant-garde, died on Feb. 24 in Green Bay, Wis. He was either 108 or 109. Viewed as a radical composer, Mr. Ornstein was ranked with Stravinsky and Schoenberg in the 
 Marvin E. Frankel, an outspoken litigator, judge and legal scholar whose views helped to establish sentencing guidelines for the federal courts, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Mara said. In a career of more tha
 ARCADI-Antony. Of Brooklyn on March 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Linda (nee Squiciarino). Loving father of Antony Philip and Jackie. Cherished son of Carmela Arcadipane. Fond brother of Mariann. Adored grandfather of Gabrielle. Antony was a C.P.A. and professor at Brooklyn College, where he 
 CALVERT-Seymour, Ph.D Chemical Engineering. Pioneer in air pollution control and education. Died February 25, 2002 in San Diego, CA. Born January 9, 1924 in Detroit, MI. Internationally recognized as the foremost expert on air pollution control scrubbers. He has lectured throughout the worl
 CARR-Paul E., Sr. Former Executive Vice President Goodall Fabrics. Died March 4, 2002 in Danbury, CT at the age of 98. Husband of the late Mildred Brenner Carr. Beloved father of Paul Jr., Nancy Carr, Joan Eggert and Virginia Kops. Devoted grandfather of Ambrose Carr III, Paul Carr III, Chr
 CHARNOFF-Stanley, M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Stanley Charnoff. Dr. Charnoff was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Department of Medicine for many years. He will be sorely missed by all his friends, patients an
 EPSTEIN-Joseph B. Died on March 2, 2002, in Carlsbad, California, at the age of 85. He founded National Machinery Exchange in New York City. He was beloved by his wife of 57 years, Lila; his children, Sydele, Lawrence and Nina, and Harvey (deceased); and his grandchildren, Maggie Golston, J
 FOXEN-William A. Of Laurel Hollow, NY, died March 4, 2002 at the age of 85. Mr. Foxen was born to William and Mary Foxen of Brooklyn, NY, on July 19, 1916. He was a graduate of the Brooklyn Technological High School, and attended New York University and Columbia University. In 1940 Mr. Foxe
 FRANKEL-Marvin E. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of Judge Marvin E. Frankel, beloved husband of Dr. Alice Kross Frankel, Director Emerita and Chief Psychiatrist of our Child Development Cent
 McKENZIE-James B. The Conneticut Theatre Foundation Board of Directors express deepest sympathy on the passing of James B. McKenzie, Executive Producer of the Westport Country Playhouse, Westport, CT, for 41 summer seasons (1959-1999), and a legend in the theatrical world. We extend our dee
 MESKIN-Julius. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Julius Meskin, father-in-law of Annette Meskin, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l President       
 PETTINATO-Lawrence G. Jr. Passed away peacefully Sunday, March 3rd at home with his loving wife and children at his bedside. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth N. (nee Brown) whom he cherished, his sons Lawrence III and Michael whom he adored, his loving parents Edith and Lawrence, Sr. an
 POLAND-Ted. Of Palm Beach, FL. and Swampscott, MA. Beloved husband of Mildred. Devoted father of Phyllis of NYC, and Richard of Aspen, CO. Loving brother of Bess Finkle of Trenton, NJ. Cherished grandfather of Matthew Liebman. Services at the Stanetsky-Hymanson Memorial Chapel, 10 Vinnin St
 UNDERWOOD-Eugene, Jr. Attorney, formerly of New York City, died February 26, 2002 in Costa Rica where he had lived since 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife, Margaret. UNDERWOOD-Eugene, Jr. Holland Lodge #       
 WAGNER-Vincent. Of Manhattan and Hurley, NY, on March 1, 2002. Guiding spirit of the Maverick Concert Series & beloved mentor of musicians everywhere. He was an inspiration to the Bloomingdale School of Music and Chamber Music America. It is a great loss to all of us who love music. He requ
 YOUNG-Dr. Victor J. Of Green port, L.I. (formerly of Port Washington) on March 1, 2002 at the age of 88. Graduate of Albion College and the University of Iowa. Professor Emeritus at CUNY and Queensboro Community College. Former Vice-president of Hazeltine and Research Engineer with Sperry-R
 GOLDBERG-Harry. January 6, 1906-March 5, 1952 Remembered. His son, Stuart       
 The Rev. Donald G. Lothrop, the radical minister of what was once one of Boston's most prominent Protestant churches, who defied politicians who called him a Communist -- mistakenly, he emphasized -- by warmly welcoming Communists to his congregation, died on Feb. 20 in Belfast, Me. He was 
 Stanley Saplin, a sports historian and statistician in New York for more than a half-century, died Friday night at New York University Medical Center. He was 88. From the 1950's to the 1990's, Mr. Saplin was the field-events announcer at the Millrose Games. He was the historical edi
 C. Farris Bryant, who straddled two eras in a four-year term as governor of Florida, died on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 87. Elected as a segregationist in 1960, Mr. Bryant helped transform the state by increasing financing for the highways and universities that helped attra
 C. Farris Bryant, who straddled two eras in a four-year term as governor of Florida, died on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 87. Elected as a segregationist in 1960, Mr. Bryant helped transform the state by increasing financing for the highways and universities that helped attra
 BEARD-Josephus Simmons II. Former President of IBM World Trade Corporation Asia and United States Navy Lieutenant Commander, WW II and Korea. Died March 4th, 2002 in Jacksonville, FL. Former resident of Rye, NY, Atlanta, GA, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 59 years to Jean Ote
 BREUER-Jacob. Of Jerusalem, Israel, passed away peacefully on March 15, 2002, at age 83. A gentle man, well known for his great intellect and sense of humor, he was married for 22 beautiful years to his beloved Judy. Loving son of the late Rika & Rav. Dr. Joseph Breuer; adored brother of Ed
 CHARNOFF-Stanley. The Maimonides Medical Center family extends our deepest sympathy on the passing of Dr. Stanley Charnoff, a longtime member of our medical staff, having served Maimonides for nearly four decades. To his son Judah, also a member of our medical staff, and the entire Charnoff
 COHN-Michael, 69, of Scarsdale, on March 3, 2002. He is survived by his wife Suzanne Hazen Cohn, his sons Thomas (Victoria Craven) and Peter, his sister Rita Wienshienk, and three grandchildren. A graduate of University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Law School, Mr. Cohn was a literary agent. 
 CORROON-George A. Of Atlantis, FL, and Garden City, NY, died March 16, 2002, at the age of 88, after a brief illness. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 4, 1913, Mr. Corroon was the son of the late Richard A. Corroon and Margaret Teaken Corroon. Richard A. Corroon was the founder of the company 
 FORRESTER-Donal F., CSP. On March 4, 2002 at age 95. He was born and raised in New York City. Fr. Donal made first promises to the Paulist Fathers on June 16, 1930 and was ordained in St. Patrick's Cathedral by then Cardinal Hayes on May 25, 1934. A proud veteran, his assignments included t
 FRANKEL-Hon. Marvin E. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of the Hon. Marvin E. Frankel, who served as chairman of the Board of Directors of Cardozo from 1979 to 1981 and played a significant role in the strengthening of the law school. A former m
 GALCHUS-Robert P., The Rev., C.M., died at St. Catherine's Infirmary, Philadelphia, PA on March 3, 2002. He is survived by his sisters, Helen Galchus and Antonina ''Tess'' Reseska. Viewing will be held at the Community Chapel, Vincentian Residence of St. John's University, 8000 Utopia Parkw
 HEFTER-Charles S. Died on March 5, 2002 at the age of 94. He retired from the practice of law at the age of 90. He was beloved by Rose, his wife of 69 years, his daughter Ruth and her husband Sid Lapidus, his son Larry (''Chick'') and his wife Jackie, his grandchildren Scott Hefter and his 
 KERNER-Edward H. Died at home in Newark, Delaware, on Feb. 11, 2002, of myelofibrosis. Dr. Kerner was Emeritus Professor of Physics at the University of Delaware, having retired in 1999 after 37 years of service as a Professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Dr. Kerner was born 
 LEVINE-Irving J. Died March 4, 2002, at the age of 89 in Princeton, New Jersey. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Thome Levine for 61 years, he is survived by his son Richard J. Levine, daughter Nancy L. Castro, sister Pauline L. Rosenblum; four grandchildren, Jonathan D. Levine, Stephani
 MERCER-James L. On Wednesday, February 27, 2002 of cancer. Much loved husband of Meredith. He is survived by son Michael, daughter Terrill Esposito (husband Michael, daughters Brielle and Brittany), son Mark (wife Kim and son Daniel) and son Andrew. A gathering of his friends & family is pl
 MEYER-Harry. Little Neck Jewish Center mourns the death of its esteemed Past President Harry Meyer and extends condolences to his beloved wife, Shirley, and family.       
 PARNES-Jerry. March 11, 2002. Longtime resident of Manhattan and Westhampton. Founded, with Morton and Burton, Parnes Bros. Real Estate. Accomplished sculptor and artist. Survived by Renate Reidel, loving companion of 34 years, brother Morton, and five nephews. May he rest in peace.       
 POSNER-Adolph, M.D. The members of the Manhattan Ophthalmological Society mourn the death of their honored member and founder Adolph Posner, M.D. A true giant in the field, his teaching and learning for over 50 years inspired us all.       
 PYNER-Dr. Rubin. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Rubin Pyner. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 RODIE-Reverend Robert R., Jr., 79, of Lakeville, CT, died at Sharon Hospital, Sharon, CT, on March 3rd. He was rector of Christ Church, Riverdale, NY 1965-1984. Survived by his wife, Polly Wilmer Rodie, and two daughters, Elizabeth Rodie Jones of Meriden, CT, and Jean Rodie of Fanwood, NJ. 
 ROMEO-Andrew A. Passed on Mar. 2 in his 70th year. A man of great gusto, lover of life, successful in business, loyal friend, avid handball player and golfer. Loving husband and best friend of Lynne Romeo. Devoted father of Andrew Romeo, his wife Sandra, & Marco Romeo. Cherished grandfather
 ROSS-Harvey. Passed away Mon, March 4, 2002 in Aventura, FL. Son of immigrant parents, he started early learning the watch business and grew it into an international company. Very well loved here and abroad. A supporter of synagogues & other charities, member of Town Club and City Athletic 
 SPILKE-David Herschel. Passed away peacefully in his sleep. Deeply mourned by his wife Francine, daughter Pia and son-in-law Michael Shlomo, sons Steven and Gary, and daughter-in-law Leslie, and granddaughter Holley, sister Jean Paget. He was a man of principal and honor and dignity. His ch
 STUART-Francis H. Died in New York on March 3, age 76. Born in Cincinnati, OH, and grew up in the suburb of Glendale, Francis was the son of Archibald and Frances Stuart Marquette. He served in the Army in World War II and graduated from the School of Journalism at the University of Missour
 WEINGARTEN - P. Fred. On March 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Naomi. Dear father of David and Renee, Roni and Mark Greenberg, and Jill. Adored grandfather of Adam, Leah, Matthew, Lisa and Michelle. Brother of Mildred Abrams. A friend of many who will be sorely missed. Services Tuesday, 9:30 A
 Former Senator Howard W. Cannon of Nevada, who served four terms as a moderate Democrat and was unseated after Teamsters union officials were accused of offering him a bribe, died today at a hospice in Las Vegas. He was 90. Mr. Cannon had been in ill health for several years and die
 Hugh Morris Gloster, who as president of the historically black Morehouse College greatly strengthened its endowment and faculty in the civil rights era, died on Feb. 16 in Decatur, Ga. He was 90. As Morehouse's seventh president and the first graduate to lead the school, he served 
 Lee Jackson, a New York-born painter who made the city the subject of many of his paintings, died on Feb. 19 in Southampton, N.Y., his family said. He was 93 and lived in Southampton. Mr. Jackson studied at the Art Students League under John Sloan and George Luks, who were members o
 Vincent Wagner, a classical music manager who was the music director of the summertime Maverick Concerts in West Hurley, N.Y., just outside Woodstock, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan and West Hurley. The cause was cancer, said Cornelia H. Rosenblum, the
 Walter Goodman, a former reporter and critic at The New York Times and the author of a widely read history of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, died yesterday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y. The cause was kidney failure, said his 
 Charles F. Wagner, a founder of Caymus Vineyards, producer of some of the greatest California cabernet sauvignons, died on Feb. 20 in Rutherford, Calif. He was 89. Caymus is best known for its Special Selection Napa Valley cabernets, intense, deeply flavored wines. In 1998, 10 vinta
 Guenter Hensler, a record business executive who worked with classical and popular music but was best known for restructuring the American classical divisions of Polygram in the 1980's and Bertelsmann in the 1990's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Friedrichshafen, Germany. He was 63 and liv
 Howard R. Young, a director and former partner at Goldman, Sachs, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 83. The cause was liver cancer, his wife, Betty, said. Mr. Young, who was known as Ray, joined Goldman, Sachs, then a private securities firm, as a securities
 Leon Mandel III, an influential figure in the auto industry as editor in chief and publisher of AutoWeek magazine, died on Tuesday at his home in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. He was 73. He had leukemia, Crain Communications Inc., the parent company of AutoWeek, said in announcing his 
 AGUINALDO-Dr. Jose. March 5, 2002. Beloved son of Mercedes Aguinaldo. Long time partner of Edward Jones. Devoted brother of Val, Chato, Tony, Lery, Chad and Tante. He will be deeply missed by his many loving family members and friends. He graduated from Santo Tomas School of Medicine in Man
 BATTLE-Hyman L., Jr. His former partners at Battle Fowler are saddened by the death of their former senior partner, Hyman L. Battle, Jr., who died Wednesday at his home in Sagaponack, LI. Wise and courtly, Hy had a profound effect on all those who knew him. We extend our condolences to his 
 BEARD-Josephus Simmons II. Former President of IBM World Trade Corporation Asia and United States Navy Lieutenant Commander, WW II and Korea. Died March 4th, 2002 in Jacksonville, FL. Former resident of Rye, NY, Atlanta, GA, and Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 59 years to Jean Ote
 COHEN-Howard. The Officers, members and staff of New York Electrical Contractors Association express their sorrow at the loss of their associate and friend, Howard Cohen. For many years he served on various industry committees, including the Association Executive Committee. His loss will be
 GOODMAN-Walter. The Board of Trustees and staff of Thirteen/ WNET New York mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Walter Goodman, and wish to express our deepest condolences to his family. His illuminating presence in American journalism will be sorely missed, but his vision will con
 KANNOF-Benjamin. The board and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture record with sorrow the passing of Benjamin Kannof, beloved father of our distinguished board member and chair of the Alan King Award Dinner, Alan Kannof. Condolences to Alan's wife Ellen Umansky, to his siste
 KLOTZ-Ruth. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Klotz, beloved mother of Martin B. Klotz, a dear friend of the Jewish community. Martin and his wife, Bobi, express their dedication to improving the lives of those less fortunate 
 LUBOW-Sol B., Bronx, NY, passed away on March 7, 2002. Mr. Lubow is a retired NYC educator. He taught at Stuyvesant H.S. in NYC and Columbus H.S. in the Bronx. He held the position of principal at P.S. 168 Manhattan and P.S. 105 Bronx. He is survived by his sisterin-law, Mildred Lubow; belo
 McDONNELL-Randy James, 37. Died on March 3, 2002 in Manhattan. Born in the Bronx, N.Y., Randy was a loving human being and longtime friend of Bill W. He will be missed by all those who were touched by his gentle spirit and, especially by his daughter Patricia Ann McDonnell Van Kampen.      
 MELFI-Leonard. The Dramatists Guild Council mourns the loss of our colleague Leonard Melfi. Mr. Melfi was an Active and dedicated member of the Guild. Our deepest sympathies to his family. John Weidman, President The Dramatists Guild of America       
 SEDER-Robert. The entire Bard College community mourns the death of writer and Bard faculty member Robert Seder. As a teacher, a friend, and a vital and creative member of the Bard community, he will be profoundly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his spouse, Jean Churchill, prof
 SPRINGER-Gustave, 89. On March 7th, 2002 at home after a long illness. Surviving his wife of 66 years, Florence; sons, Paul, Karl, Michael; granddaughter, Elizabeth. Served four years in army, W.W. II. Bronze Star for bravery. Attorney representing the Dutch Government for 45 years. Knighte
 TYRAS-Denis H., M.D. The Board, Administration, and staff of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers-St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, mourn the tragic death of Denis H. Tyras, M.D. Chief Emeritus of Cardiothoracic Surgery at St. Vincent's Manhattan. A widely respected and renowned surgeon, 
 Thomas M. Whalen III, mayor of Albany from 1983 to 1993, who moved it away from machine politics and helped revitalize its economy, died Monday evening when his car hit a tree near his home in Feura Bush in Albany County. He was 68. Mr. Whalen was driving alone in the car. The Assoc
 Alvin M. Eicoff, an advertising executive in Chicago who gained his reputation making television commercials aimed at bleary-eyed late-night viewers, died last Saturday in Highland Beach, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, said the advertising agency he started, A. Eicoff 
 COLEMAN-Francis T., 80. Of Bronxville, NY and formerly of Glenville, NY died March 7, 2002. Former Labor Relations executive with Atlantic Richfield. Proud member of the 8th Air Force Historical Society and a supporter of the Friends of the Old Dutch Burying Ground in Sleepy Hollow. Visitat
 GLOVER-Ernest. March 6, 2002. Age 96. Loving father of Barbara and Hilary, grandfather to Paul, Jo, Louise and Sally; son-in-laws Ron and Peter. Memorial service at St. Lukes, Easthampton, Sunday, March 10, at 3:00 PM. He was loved by all who ever met him.       
 MEYER-Kathleen M. (nee Reed). Of Merrick, NY, on March 8, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Margaret M. and Christopher F. Reed. Devoted wife for 55 years of William J. Loving mother of The Reverend William J. Meyer S.M. of San Antonio, TX, and Christopher F. and his wife, Ann H. of Merric
 PANZER-Sidney. The officers and staff of Walter & Samuels, Inc. mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague of more than 30 years. His compassion and professionalism will be greatly missed. Our sincerest sympathies to his beloved wife, Mickey, and family.       
 SILBERSTEIN-Joseph, M.D. Cherished husband of Thelma for more than 50 years. Model father of Debbie, Linda and Eric. Trusting father-in-law of Fred, Larry and Nancy. Inspirational grandfather of Jonathan, Zachery and Jacob. Friend to all. Doctor to many. Died suddenly on March 8, 2002. An o
 STERN-Arieh I. Beloved husband of Tobi, passed away March 7, after a long and courageous battle with lung cancer. He is survived by his wonderful family and friends. Service Sunday, 11:30 AM, Plaza Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 TYRAS-Denis, M.D. The Officers and Members of The Staff Society of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the tragic passing of our friend and colleague, Denis Tyras, M.D. Dr. Tyras was the Chief of the Division of CardioThoracic Surgery at LIJ from 1984 to 1991. He devoted his life to
 WEATHERS-Eliot B. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of their retired partner, Bay Weathers. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ann and to his entire family.       
 Dr. Paul Carbone, a cancer researcher who was honored for his work involving Hodgkin's disease, chemotherapy and other aspects of the treatment and prevention of cancer, died on Feb. 22 in Singapore, where he had gone to encourage cancer research. He was 70 and lived in Middleton, Wis.     
 Samuel W. Hawley, a former president of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 92. From 1956 to 1975, Mr. Hawley was president of what is now People's Bank, based in Bridgeport, Conn., which was formerly the People's 
 Joseph B. Hartranft, the founder of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association and a pioneer of general aviation, died on Feb. 22 in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. His influence on flying was profound, straddling military and civilian aviation for nearly 50 years. Phil Boyer, pre
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. 74, died suddenly on March 4, in his summer home in Craryville, NY. He was in high spirits-and then he left us, a good death for him, difficult for family and friends. Clint was a professional theater director, at Long Island Stage and many other theaters, the latest, Ne
 BALINSKY-Benjamin. CoFounder of BFS Psychological Associates, he was a leader in the application of psychology in effective executive selection. He was compassionate, a true human being, a treasured friend. Gloria and Mort Feinberg       
 BERNSTEIN - William. Deepest sympathy to the Bernstein family. A Silver Founder with his late wife Berta, William raised his children and lived his life according to the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics. May the children, Dr. Celia Bernstein Waldman, Nathan Bernstein, Evelyn Gr
 BUCHBINDER-Dr. Edward H. March 7, in Boca Raton, FL. Born in Bayonne, NJ, 1911. Last surviving and youngest of 11 children born to the late Meyer and Emma Esther Buchbinder from whom he and his siblings learned devotion to family, charity and religion. A distinguished graduate of Ohio Colle
 FOLGER-Samuel Reid. On March 6, 2002, at the age of 81 at his home in Doylestown, PA. Born in Brooklyn, raised in Summit, NJ, graduated from Princeton University in 1941. Served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and was manager of Systems Engineering for General Electric. His loving spirit, 
 GENDEBIEN-Albert W. Lafayette College mourns the passing of Albert W. Gendebien, Class of 1934, history professor emeritus and archivist emeritus, on March 8, 2002, at age 88. We wish to express our deepest condolences to his wife, Martha, and family. A memorial service will be held at 2 PM
 KELSEY-Stephen Tomlinson, Jr., 85. Of Berwyn, PA, died March 7, 2002. He was predeceased by his wife of forty years, Nancy Bryce Kelsey. He is survived by his wife Margaret Kipp Kelsey; his daughters Melie, Jenny and Margot, and five grandchildren. Memorial service will be held on Saturday,
 NECHAMKIN-Leon. 73, on March 8, 2002. Devoted husband of the late Ruth, the love of his life. Cherished father, grandfather, uncle and friend. A strong man with the courage of his convictions, he achieved success in business and expressed himself through his art. He touched the lives of eve
 PATES-James Johnston at ninety-five years on February 20, 2002 in Brisbane, Australia. He leaves his beloved wife Meta, and family James and Marilyn Pates, Meta Margaret and John Goodman, and John and Peggy Pates. He is missed by his brother Bill Pates and sister Adaline Potter, by his seve
 RAYMOND-Morton. 76 of Closter, NJ on Wednesday, March 6, 2002. Married 54 years to his beloved Mary Greene Raymond. Survived by son Jerry and daughter-in-law Marisabel, daughter Ronnie Ellen, grandchildren Abigail and Harry, sister Natalie Ferentz and sister-inlaw Lillian Wilbur. He was an 
 SHAPIRO-Sol. On March 6, 2002 we lost a great man who succeeded in every possible way. He is survived by his beloved wife Helen, adoring children Linda and husband Milton, Robert and wife Sharon, cherished grandchildren Douglas and wife Lisa, Daniel, Jacqueline, Michael, and great grandchil
 SHEN-Shih-Chang. Of San Francisco, CA, formerly of Hamden, CT, died on March 5, 2002 at the age of 90. Born in Shanghai, China, he received his BS from Yenching University, his MD from Peking Union Medical College, and his PhD from Cambridge University, England. Dr. Shen was named director 
 SHEVETT-Robert. Died on March 7, 2002, at 75 years of age. Bob was an extraordinary man who lived his life heartily. He was a profound influence in all of our lives-his wife Barbara Rosenthal, his children Sarah and David Shevett, his grandchildren Josh Barry and Zachary Shevett, and Sasha,
 SHURMAN-George. Died peacefully on February 17, 2002. He will be missed by his loving family and friends.       
 SILBERSTEIN-Dr. Joe. We shall miss our remarkable friend and treasure wonderful memories. David ''Bill'' and Barbara Kahn SILBERSTEIN-Joseph, M.D. Cherished husband of Thelma for more than 50 years. Model father of Debbie, Linda and Eric. Trusting father-in-law of Fred, Larry and Na
 STEVENS-Dr. Peter H. Distinguished psychologist, adjunct professor at New York University and CUNY, career consultant at Stevens Institute of Technology, and author of the book ''Crisis Prevention,'' passed away peacefully on January 15, 2002 at 88 years. Greatly beloved for his skillful wa
 STURKIE-Dr. Paul D. Died Friday, March 8, at the St. Peters Medical Center, New Brunswick. Dr. Sturkie was born in Proctor, Texas, and was ninety-two years of age. He resided in East Brunswick for fifty years and was formerly from Texas. He attended elementary and high schools in Texas, he 
 WUCHERER-William H. Beloved husband & father, William Henry Wucherer, passed quietly on March 1st 2002, in Summerville, South Carolina. He had suffered a massive stroke. Born on July 7, 1932, in Philadelphia, PA., he lived most of his life in Jersey City, New Jersey until his retirement in 
 MAZZIA-Valentino. Remembering my beloved husband on the third anniversary of his death, March 10, 1999. Rosana       
 NACK-Saul H. On the occasion of the monument unveiling today, we take tribute and remember him for his deep devotion, support and friendship. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva       
 The Rev. Robert V. Lott, a Roman Catholic priest who played a leading role in the building of low-rent housing and an assisted-care residence in East Harlem, died on Feb. 27 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was cancer, friends said. Until his death,
 Alan Manson, an actor who appeared in ''This Is the Army,'' ''The Tenth Man'' and other Broadway shows, died on Tuesday in Jamaica, Queens. He was 83 and lived in Easthampton, N.Y. Mr. Manson was one of the 310 real-life soldiers chosen to be in ''This Is the Army,'' Irving Berlin's
 ALLISON-George Suffern IV. Died peacefully in Goshen, NY, Friday, March 8, after a long illness. Born in Haverstraw, NY, January 11, 1917, the elder son of George S. Allison III and Dorcas Lake Benjamin Allison, he attended Haverstraw High School, Harrisburg Business Academy and Syracuse Un
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. 74, died suddenly on March 4, in his summer home in Craryville, NY. He was in high spirits-and then he left us, a good death for him, difficult for family and friends. Clint was a professional theater director, at Long Island Stage and many other theaters, the latest, Ne
 DIAMOND-Isidore J. Our kind and honorable inspiration has gone to heaven. A graduate of Cooper Union,he helped the unjustly evicted back into their homes. Your memory will not fade. Always, Lauren, Sylvia and Margaret       
 FITZGERALD-John F., Sr. On March 10, 2002. Devoted father of John F., Jr., and Rosanne, Peggi and Pat, Kathleen and Steve, and Stephen. Also survived by his exwife Betty Ann and eight grandchildren. Reposing at Francisco Funeral Home, 101st Avenue, corner of 103rd St., Ozone Park, NY. Mass 
 HESS-Robert Kellogg. Retired VP of Brakeley, John Price Jones, NY fundraising consultants, died in Hendersonville, NC, on March 3, 2002, after an extended illness. He was 82 years old. Graduate Bronxville HS 1937 and Dartmouth College 1941. Member Theta Chi. WWII, served more than 4 years i
 JONES-Wyatt Claiborne. Born May 4, 1919 in Cullman, AL died in Houston, TX, March 3, 2002 of Alzheimers. He was the son of William Claiborne and Rebecca Jones. He attended Cullman Public Schools and was a graduate of St. Bernard College, Cullman; Birmingham Southern College, Birmingham, AL 
 KARASYK-Samuel. Lieutenant, NYPD (Ret). Died peacefully at home surrounded by his loved ones, beloved wife Syd, adored children Philip and wife Susan, Rita and husband Andrew, grandchildren Erik, Alison, Samantha and Jake. Cherished uncle and brother-in-law. His humanity was a touchstone to
 KELSEY-Stephen Tomlinson, Jr., 85. Of Berwyn, PA, died March 7, 2002. He was predeceased by his wife of forty years, Nancy Bryce Kelsey. He is survived by his wife Margaret Kipp Kelsey; his daughters Melie, Jenny and Margot, and five grandchildren. Memorial service will be held on Saturday,
 LEAHY-Thomas F. Of Bronxville on March 8, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia, loving father of Patricia Ann, Allison, Thomas Jr., Kirsten, and Caitlin, grandfather of Gaige, Pierson, Tate, and Thomas III. Thomas was the former President of CBS Television Network and most recently an independ
 Ronald L. Freed, a classical music publishing executive, died on Feb. 20 in Miami. He was 64 and lived in Miami Beach and New York. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said Sean Marino, a friend and colleague and the executor of Mr. Freed's estate. Mr. Freed was the president 
 CARHART-Amory S., 82. On March 8, 2002, in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. A gentleman who thoroughly enjoyed life. Attended Brooks School, 1937-1940. Enlisted in U.S. Navy December 1941 and served on USS Yorktown. Worked for American Express, 1947-1971. Predeceased by his wife, Lucile H. Carhar
 CASSIDY-John James. On March 8th, 2002. Born in Manhattan, resident of Austin, TX. Beloved husband of Margaret. Devoted father of Daniel, Patrick, Megeen. Retired Colonel, USA. Survived by loving wife, sister Mary, his children and many cousins.       
 CROSBY-Ralph H. On March 10, 2002. Passed away peacefully at his home. He was 96. Beloved husband of Joan. Mr. Crosby graduated from MIT in 1929. Family will receive friends at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, NY today 2-4 and 7-9. Mass of Christian Burial will be 
 EISENBERG-John M., M.D., M.B.A. The board, staff and entire membership of Research!America honor the life of Dr. John Eisenberg, director, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. A visionary committed to making medical and health research a higher national priority, he leaves a legacy o
 FEDER-Julius. Beloved husband, loving father, and cherished grandfather, died peacefully in his sleep on March 11, 2002. Private funeral services are planned.       
 GAGARIN-Andrew, March 8, 2002 in Big Sur, California. Survived by his wife, Jamie Gagarin, his daughter, Genia Pujol, his sons, Michael Gagarin and Peter Gagarin, & two grandchildren. Contributions may be sent to St. Paul's School, Concord, NH.       
 GIBNEY-Jack. Age 75, March 4, 2002. He worked for Protection Mutual Insurance Company in Wayne, NJ (now known as FM Global). He is survived by his sons: Craig J. and Keith J.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Karl. La Coquille of Westhampton Beach records with sorrow the passing of our president, Karl Goldstein. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Marcella, and family. The Board of Directors La Coquille of Westhampton Beach, Inc.       
 HIRSCHMAN - Ann. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Dr. Shalom Hirschman upon the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 JEFFCOAT-Albert E. (Jeff). The staff, board and artists of the Manhattan Theatre Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed Founder and Chairman Emeritus, A.E. ''Jeff'' Jeffcoat. Jeff was instrumental in the early growth of MTC and served as its Chairman from 1970 to 1982. MTC 
 KANNOF-Benjamin P. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Benjamin P. Kannof, beloved father of Alan Kannof, a dear friend of the Jewish community, who helps improve the lives of others through his exceptional commitment to UJA-Federati
 LEAHY-Thomas F. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the passing of our admired colleague. While serving as TDF's President from 1992 through 1997, Tom's dedication and ability helped TDF grow and flourish in many important areas. We are deeply grateful, not onl
 MATHEWS-Paul. Loving husband of Jane, father of Kate & brother of Carol Rodgers. An accomplished attorney, his family and friends will miss him greatly.       
 SONN-William Louis. On March 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Carolyn Blitz Sonn, father of Maretta, son of Alice C. Sonn and the late Howard M. Sonn, brother of Elizabeth Rose, Edward Sonn and Barbara Thanhauser. Friends and family will join to honor his memory at a service on Tuesday, March 12
 UNTERMAN-Rabbi Jacob. 86, March 10, died as he lived-with great dignity and a strong faith, surrounded by those who loved him. Adored husband of Helen, dear brother to Chone and Harry, cherished father of Elana, Sonny and his wife Denise. Beloved grandfather to David, Deborah, Aaron, Rifka 
 Edward F. Stancik, who as chief investigator of the New York City school system over the last 12 years gained a reputation as a relentless -- some school officials said overzealous -- pursuer of corruption and misconduct, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was not dis
 Howard Thompson, a movie reporter for The New York Times who turned to writing one-liner reviews in the newspaper's television section that amused, infuriated and astounded readers for more than 20 years, died on Sunday at his home in Cape Canaveral, Fla. He was 82. The cause was pn
 Dr. James Tobin, a professor emeritus of economics at Yale who was a top adviser in the Kennedy administration and received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1981, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 84 and lived in New Haven. The cause was a stroke, a Yale spokeswoman, Dorie Baker, s
 CARHART-Amory S. The Board of Directors and membership of the Bathing Corporation express great sadness at the recent passing of our most worthy and esteemed President and Director of twenty-nine years, and extend our deepest sympathy to Wendy, Amory and his family.       
 CARO-Herman. The officers and employees of Hugo Neu Corporation and the John L. Neu Family are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Herman Caro, a former senior executive and director of the company and an advisor to the late Hugo Neu. Dr. Caro served the company for more than half a centu
 CASEY-James M., 61. Died March 8, at Jacobi Hospital. He was an Arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association and a selfemployed CPA. Memorial services are March 23, 11 AM at the Church of the Messiah, Rhinebeck, NY. Memorials may be made to Center for Hope (Hospice), 176 Hussa Street
 FERTIG-Irving. On March 11, 2002, of Lake Worth, FL at 87. Survived by his beloved wife, Norma Fertig, loving son Gerald Fertig, daughter-in-law Dale Fertig and grandsons Alex Fertig, Evan Fertig and his wife, Theresa Liao.       
 FINDLAY-Charles W. Jr. Of Westport Harbor, Massachusetts, on February 11, 2002. The Directors of The Grenfell Association of America are saddened by the death of Dr. Findlay, who had served on the Grenfell Board of Directors since 1995. His dedication and expertise will be greatly missed. T
 IMBERMAN-Jacob, on March 11, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlyn, adored father of Joseph and Diane, and cherished grandfather of Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth. Funeral services will take place at Temple Israel, 112 E. 75 St., Manhattan, on March 13, at 12:30 PM. He is survived by his wife
 KEEFE-Harry V. Jr. Known as the dean of banking, on March 8, 2002, at the age of 79. His remarkable investment banking career started in 1946 with R.L. Day followed by Tucker Anthony. He opened Keefe, Bruyette and Woods in 1962 with only eight employees and $50,000 in capital, growing it to
 LEVIN-Robert Nathan, librettist and pianist, died in Perugia, Italy, on March 4 of cancer at the age of 56. He had lived in Italy for several years while collaborating on an opera and cantata scheduled for performance shortly. Born in New York City, Mr. Levin was a graduate of Columbia Univ
 LILLING-Max Irving, MD. On March 12, 2002 of Muttontown, Long Island. Beloved husband of Frances. Devoted father of Caryn & Adam. Dearest brother of Louis. Loving brother-in-law of Linda and Ronald Rosen. Dear uncle of Nancy, Douglas & Austin. Services are on Thursday, at 10:00 A.M., at ''G
 McDONALD - Reverend Canon Frederick Alexander, 93, died in San Francisco March 10. Rev. McDonald, an Episcopalian minister, attended the General Theological Seminary in New York and was ordained in 1934. His parish assignments included St. Stephen's in Providence, RI; St. John's in Centrali
 McNEELY-James J., 75. Died at home on Friday, March 8, 2002. He was in high spirits, with his loved ones at his bedside. Loving husband of Janet, brother of Margaret Toulson, & uncle of Rosanne Kyriazis. A graphic artist and cartoonist; his family and friends will miss him greatly.       
 NECHAMKIN-Leon. Palm Beach Orthodox Synagogue mourns the passing of our esteemed member and founder of our Ruth & Leon Nechamkin Hebrew School. We express our deepest condolences to the family on the loss of their beloved father and grandfather. Moshe E. Scheiner, Rabbi Michael C. Gelfand, 
 SONN-William Louis. The Board of Directors and staff of The Rent Stabilization Association mourn the loss of William Sonn, an Executive Committee member of the Board of the RSA. Mr. Sonn was forever attentive to industry concerns as well as to public needs. Mr. Sonn died very much as he liv
 STANCIK-Edward F. The Board of Trustees, Staff and entire Big Brothers Big Sisters of NYC family mourns the death of our devoted Trustee and Big Brother, who was dedicated to spreading mentoring to the needy youth of New York. Our sympathy to his family. Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr., President E
 UNTERMAN-Jacob. Young Israel of The West Side mourns the passing of a distinguished Founding Member, Past President and Past Chairman of The Board, Mr. Jacob Unterman. We extend condolences to his devoted wife, Helen, children, Chaim, and Elana, and brother, Harry. May the Comforter of Zion
 Dr. Roy Porter, the popular British author, commentator and historian whose prolific scholarship covered topics as diverse as the Enlightenment and the history of medicine, died on March 3 near his home in St. Leonards-on-the-Sea, England. He was 55. The cause appeared to be a heart
 Harry V. Keefe Jr., a founder of the Keefe, Bruyette & Woods brokerage firm and later a manager of an investment fund, died Friday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. The cause was a head injury after a fall, his wife, Anita, said. Mr. Keefe was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.  
 AARON-Joseph H. On March 12, 2002 at age 92. Husband of the late Claire B. Aaron, father of Judith Aaron Auerbach, and grandfather of Jeffrey Aaron Auerbach and Pamela Jane Auerbach. He is also survived by three cherished greatgrandchildren, Cole, Samuel Aron son, Jonah Morse Aronson, and D
 FARKAS-Richard P. 77, of New York City, died March 10, 2002. Husband of Elizabeth P. Kilroy. Survived by four sons, seven grandchildren, one great grandchild. He was well respected for his expertise in aiding international and domestic companies.       
 FEIN-George. Age 94, on March 13, 2002. He lived a full life and made the lives of those who knew him fuller. Beloved husband of the late Pearl Javer Fein. Survived by his loving wife, Rachel Glazer Fein; his devoted children, Barbara and Richard Kraft, Edward and Ronnie Fein; his dear step
 GREENE-John Sullivan. Age 80. Dedicated educator, lover of music, loving and devoted husband of Linda, father of Joshua, Benjamin and Lynda, grandfather of Bryan and great grandfather of Mia. Passed on March 13th, 2002. His wisdom, love and wonderful sense of humor will be missed by all. Fu
 IMBERMAN-Jacob. On March 11, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlyn, adored father of Joseph and Diane, and cherished grandfather of Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth. He is survived by his wife, Arlyn, his two children, Joseph Imberman and Diane Albert, a sister, Ruth Taxel and a brother, Milton
 KELLER-Edward F. On March 13, 2002 in his 89th year. Predeceased by his wife of 60 years Clare Nolan Keller, his son Edward F. Keller Jr. and his infant granddaughter Clare Sheehy Shanahan. Survived by his ever grateful daughter Clare (Missy) Keller Shanahan and his always caring daughter i
 LILLING-Dr. Max. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the loss of Dr. Max Lilling, the beloved husband of Fran Lilling, President of the Women's Group of The Muttontown Club. We extend our deepest sympathy to Fran, Caryn and Adam. The Women's Group The Muttontown Club LILLING-Dr. Ma
 LORIN-Will. Composer and writer, died at home March 12. Beloved husband of Adriane. Loving father of Katherine (Fred) Myers. Devoted stepfather of George (Kate) Schweitzer and Peter (Guthrie) Schweitzer. Caring grandfather. Dear brother of Sally (Maurice) Fox. Services e private. Contributi
 POSNER-Adolph, M.D. On March 12th, 2002. Emigrated from Poland. Attended CCNY and NYU/ Bellevue Medical School. After establishing his medical practice, he founded and supervised the Glaucoma Clinic at Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital, was on the faculty of Albert Einstein Medical School and 
 REINHOLD-Henry, 96 years old. Loving father of Nicole Martin, Barbara Rauch, Johnny & Yael. Beloved brother of Augusta Hausman, Aaron and the late Jeanne Goldman & Steve. Adoring uncle, grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Friday, March 15th, 11:15 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th
 RIFF-Nathan, 84. Loving husband of Gertrude. Devoted father of Shelly, Ron, Michael and Dana. Adoring grandfather of Joshua, Jonathan, Daniel, Jacob and Eric. We will all miss his devotion, his fatherly love, his jokes and his smile. Services Thursday, March 14, 11:30 A.M. at Gramercy Park 
 STANCIK-Edward F. The Staff at The Office of The Special Commissioner are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague. Ed was committed to improving the school system and worked tirelessly toward that effort on behalf of The City's school children and their parents. He will b
 WHITELEY-Stark Canning. Suddenly on March 11, 2002 at age 55. A graduate of The Hill School, Columbia and Johns Hopkins Universities, Stark was a lifelong historian and teacher. He lived in New York City and Friendship Long Island, ME, & was a member of The University Club in NYC. He is the
 Sir Raymond Firth, an anthropologist who wrote extensively on the cultures of remote Polynesian islands and was noted for his close attention to scientific evidence, died on Feb. 22 in London. He was 100. Sir Raymond began his fieldwork in Polynesia in the 1920's and remained fairly
 Spyros Kyprianou, a former president of Cyprus who refused to compromise with the island's breakaway Turkish minority, died on Tuesday in Nicosia, the capital. He was 69. The cause was pelvic cancer, The Associated Press reported. Elected president in 1977 after the death of his men
 Leonid M. Ozernoy, a prominent Soviet-born astrophysicist whose campaign to emigrate to the United States in the 1980's drew international attention, died on Feb. 28 in a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 62 and lived in University Park, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said
 BALLA-Rabbi Imre. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in Budapest in 1973, he served pulpits in Hungary, Vancouver, and Sudbury, Ont. At the time of his death, he was the rabbi of B'nai Israel in St. Catherines, Ont. We extend our deepest condolences
 CODY-Joe. A most memorable and popular teacher, coach and ''Searchers'' leader at Horace Mann School from 1968 to 1982. His love of life, history, rugby shirts, and ski trips will never be forgotten. Heartfelt condolences to Molly and their three children. Jodi ('78) and Herb ('77) Nass And
 DEWEY-Donald J. On March 5, 2002 at the age of 79. Emeritus Professor of Economics at Columbia University. He's deeply mourned by his wife Ruth, his son Christopher, his daughter Rachel and her husband Stephen Thorsett and by his granddaughter Laura and by many friends.       
 FARKAS-Richard P. The Officers and Directors of WaterChef Inc. extend deepest sympathy to the wife and family of its esteemed Director. He will be missed. David A. Conway, Chairman and CEO       
 GOLD-August. On March 12, 2002 at age 91. Educator, mentor and inspiration to an extended global family. Teacher in NYC high schools and facilities planner at the NYC Board of Education for five decades. Community activist, preservationist, environmentalist, he devoted his later life to the
 IMBERMAN-Jacob. On March 11, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlyn, adored father of Joseph and Diane, and cherished grandfather of Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth. He is survived by his wife, Arlyn, his two children, Joseph Imberman and Diane Albert, a sister, Ruth Taxel and a brother, Milton
 JEFFCOAT-Albert E. (Jeff). Formerly of Larchmont, NY died March 10 at his home on Bainbridge Island, WA, after a valiant battle with cancer. His courage, spirit, and optimism throughout his life will be remembered through his accomplishments as foreign correspondent of the Wall Street Journ
 KENT-Richard T., 75. Retired Treasurer of Bristol-Myers Company died on March 4, 2002. He is survived by his wife Georgianne Ensign Kent; 3 children, Dana Kent, Lisa Kent, Amy Kent; and 4 grandchildren. Memorial contributions to Kent Land Trust, Kent, CT 06757, or Kent Memorial Library Asso
 LORIN-Will. Composer and writer, died at home March 12. Beloved husband of Adriane. Loving father of Katherine (Fred) Myers. Devoted stepfather of George (Kate) Schweitzer and Peter (Guthrie) Schweitzer. Caring grandfather. Dear brother of Sally (Maurice) Fox. Services e private. Contributi
 MESSER-Remedios Garcia. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Isamu Noguchi Foundation extend their deepest sympathy to our Trustee, Thomas M. Messer, over the loss of his wife, Remedios Garcia Messer, who passed away on March 10th, 2002. Isaac Shapiro, President Shoji Sadao, Executive Dir
 PRAGER-Julius, 81. Of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away on March 12, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife, Muriel, of 59-1/2 years; cherished sister, Ruth; beloved son, Mel (Alice) Prager & daughter, Arlene (Les) Weinstock; grandchildren, Gregory, Jeffrey, David, Marc, Amy, Jill. Chapel s
 REINHOLD-Henry, 96 years old. Loving father of Nicole Martin, Barbara Rauch, Johnny & Yael. Beloved brother of Augusta Hausman, Aaron and the late Jeanne Goldman & Steve. Adoring uncle, grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Friday, March 15th, 11:15 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th
 SHAPIRO-Philip L. Died March 13, 2002. Of Manhattan and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Norma. Devoted father of Sanford and Sheryl Greenberg. Dear brother of Charlotte Gold, Sidney and the late Jerry. Loving grandfather and great-grandfather. Memorial service on Friday, 1:00PM at Rivers
 TARR-Bruce Warren. Died suddenly March 13th, 2002. He is survived by his wife Robin C. Tarr, one daughter Jennifer Tarr, one son Andrew Tarr and several cousins. The family will receive friends Friday 2-4 & 7-9 PM at the Austin F. Knowles, Inc. Funeral Home, 128 Main Street, Port Washington
 THOMPSON-Henry Howard Jr. A 50 year film critic for The New York Times, died March 10, 2002 at his residence in Cape Canaveral, FL. Born October 25, 1919 in Natchez, MS, he was a member of the New York Film Critic Society, moving to Florida five years ago from New York. Mr. Thompson was a U
 TOBIN-James. The board, administration, scholars and staff of The Levy Economics Institute of Bard College mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague, James Tobin, who shared with us his brilliant counsel and enduring wisdom as a member of our board of advisors. His generous intellect
 TODER-Emanuel. Of Deerfield Beach, Florida, passed away on March 12th, 2002. He is survived by his loving wife, Florence, son Richard and daughter Nancy, grandchildren Elizabeth and David and three great-grandchildren. In lieu of flowers the family requests donations be made to your favorit
 UHLIG-Richard H., 78. On March 11, 2002. Born May 12, 1923 in Shaker Heights, OH. Surviving relatives include his wife, Susanna Chabinak-Uhlig; daughter, Barbara Ostroth of Teaneck, NJ; son, David Uhlig of Seattle, WA; daughter, Jane Bourette of Shrewsbury, MA; stepdaughter Suzette Snyder o
 van VOORHEES-Clifford I. Jr. On Tuesday, Mar. 12, 2002 at age 81 in Southampton, New York. Beloved husband of Nancy (Washburn), father of Clifford I. III, Sonia L. Reese, Roger W., Victoria P. (Grey) & Peter C. (predeceased), and grandfather of Alexander, Kathryn, Christiana, Bradford, Roge
 WHITELEY-Stark Canning. Suddenly on March 11, 2002 at age 55. A graduate of The Hill School, Columbia and Johns Hopkins Universities, Stark was a lifelong historian and teacher. He lived in New York City and Friendship Long Island, ME, & was a member of The University Club in NYC. He is the
 Thomas Winship, who as editor of The Boston Globe for two decades propelled the newspaper to regional leadership and national stature, in part through tireless coverage of the court-ordered school busing that split the city in the 1970's, died yesterday in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Lin
 Gilmore T. Schjeldahl, an enterprising American inventor whose knowledge of plastics, adhesives and electronics enabled him to create the world's first communications satellite, died on Sunday in the Berkshire community of Lenox, Mass., his hometown since 1999. He was 89 and had earlier liv
 Henry Woods, a federal district judge who presided over a long school desegregation battle in Little Rock, Ark., in the 1980's and was removed from a Whitewater case because of his friendship with President Bill Clinton, died on Thursday in Little Rock. He was 83. The desegregation 
 COLEMAN-Richard J., Ph.D. Age 77 of Stamford, CT passed away suddenly and unexpectedly March 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Dory, deeply mourned by his children Richard Jr., Maryanne, Mark and Loretta. Survived by loving grandchildren Ashley, John and Elizabeth. Dr. Coleman was formerly Vice 
 FREED-Lawrence. On Thursday, March 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Pearl Freed. Adoring father of Ronald & father-in-law of Sherie. Cherished grandfather of six and great-grandfather of six. He will be greatly missed. Services will be held Sunday, March 17th, 1 PM at Riverside Chapel, 1895 Fla
 GILBERT-Lewis. March 13, 2002. At the age of 93. Husband of the late Sylvia. Father of Jocelyn Simon, Barbara and Steven Bronstein. Grandfather of Jill, Michele, Neil and Dana. Brother of Ben and Gladys. May he rest in peace. Services Sunday, 1PM at Gutterman's Inc., 175 North Long Beach Ro
 HARKAVY-Esther. On March 15, 2002, at the age of 97 years. Beloved wife of the late Morris Harkavy. Mother of Justice Ira B. Harkavy, his wife Roberta, and the late Stuart Harkavy. Grandmother of Steven J. Harkavy, his wife Jodi; Daniel J. Harkavy, his wife Jody; and Elliot. Great-grandmoth
 HIRSCH-Edwin Paul. Beloved husband of Muriel. Devoted father of Robert (Adele) and Kenneth (Patricia). Cherished grandfather of Lee and Dylan. ''A man who loved to work with his hands.'' Services Sunday 1 PM at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, New York.       
 McCARTHY - Margaret. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Local 553 Pension Fund extend their deepest sympathy to our Trustee, Justin McCarthy, over the loss of his beloved mother who passed away on March 14, 2002. Bernard Pellegrino Robert B. Reenes Demos Demopoulos and Lawrence Scuder  
 SOLOMON - Rubin, M.D. On March 14, 2002. Husband of the late Muriel. Beloved father of Stephen and Richard. Dear uncle of Lurie Squire. Service Sunday, 12 Noon, Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, L.I. SOLOMON-Dr. Rubin. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend
 WHITELEY-Stark Canning. Suddenly on March 11, 2002 at age 55. A graduate of The Hill School, Columbia and Johns Hopkins Universities, Stark was a lifelong historian and teacher. He lived in New York City and Friendship Long Island, ME, & was a member of The University Club in NYC. He is the
 Thomas F. Leahy, a former president of the CBS television network, died March 8 in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. He had been undergoing treatment for cancer, CBS said. Mr. Leahy led the network from 1986 through 1989, after which he became president of a
 Herbert Spencer, an English graphic designer and author who was the editor of an influential postwar review of typography and the visual arts and who played a vital role in introducing experimental typography to commercial art, died on Monday in Falmouth, England. He was 77. The cau
 ARMSTRONG - Oscar V. On March 8th, 2002, at the age of 83, Oscar Vance Armstrong, beloved husband of Camilla and father of Stephen, of Washington, D.C., and Brian, of New York City. He is also survived by three grandchildren, Dr. Katrina Armstrong Randall, David, and Nicholas, and three gre
 BREUER-Jacob. Of Jerusalem, Israel, passed away peacefully on March 15th, at age 83. A gentle man, well known for his great intelligence and sense of humor, he was married for 22 beautiful years to his beloved Judy. Loving son of the late Rika & Rav. Dr. Joseph Breuer; adored brother of Edi
 CARHART-Amory S., 82. On March 8, 2002, in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. A gentleman who thoroughly enjoyed life. Attended Brooks School, 1937-1940. Enlisted in U.S. Navy December 1941 and served on USS Yorktown. Worked for American Express, 1947-1971. Predeceased by his wife, Lucile H. Carhar
 COLEMAN-Richard J., Ph.D. Age 77 of Stamford, CT passed away suddenly and unexpectedly March 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Dory, deeply mourned by his children Richard Jr., Maryanne, Mark and Loretta. Survived by loving grandchildren Ashley, John and Elizabeth. Dr. Coleman was formerly Vice 
 DELLI-PIZZI-Louis J. The Morgagni Medical Society mourns the loss of former President Louis J. Delli-Pizzi and extends its sympathy to his wife Joan and his family. We also extend our sympathy to his sister Antonia E. DelliPizzi, M.D., his nephew Peter Sordillo, M.D. and to his niece Emilia
 FENWICK-Hugh Hammond. Of Bernardsville, on March 16, 2002. Beloved husband of Joyce K. Handy Fenwick. Son of the late Hugh McLeod and the Honorable Millicent Hammond Fenwick. Father of Angela Francesca Romana Fenwick, Mark Hammond, Hugh Wyatt, Sibyl Stevens, Leigh Hammond and Bayard Stevens
 GRIGGS-Northam Lee. 73, on March 15, 2002, of complications of a stroke at home in Greenwich, CT. A resident of Greenwich, CT, and Hyannis Port, MA, he was a graduate of Yale University and a Senior Correspondent and Bureau Chief at Time Magazine. He is survived by his beloved wife, Nina Mi
 HARKAVY-Esther. On March 15, 2002, at the age of 97 years. Beloved wife of the late Morris Harkavy. Mother of Justice Ira B. Harkavy, his wife Roberta, and the late Stuart Harkavy. Grandmother of Steven J. Harkavy, his wife Jodi; Daniel J. Harkavy, his wife Jody; and Elliot. Great-grandmoth
 HASBROUCK-Brigadier General Sherman V. Age 103, on March 13, 2002, of Stone Ridge, NY, died at the L.I. State Veterans Home at Stony Brook. 1920 Graduate of US Military Academy, West Point, and oldest living graduate. Survived by his wife, Clara R. Morthland Hasbrouck, four stepchildren, ni
 HATCH-Peter. Of NYC, died March 3, 2002 at the age of 80. A funeral service was held on March 7 at the First Presbyterian Church, New York City. Burial was at the Cedar Hill Cemetery, Hartford, CT. He is fondly remembered by his wife of forty years, Jane Maddox Hatch, a brother, Christopher
 HIRSCHMAN-Ann. The President, Trustees, Faculty and Student Body of Touro College and Touro University extend our kos tanchumim to our distinguished Board member & outstanding physician, Dr. Sholom Hirschman, on the passing of his beloved mother of blessed memory. May the family be comforte
 HOUSE-Monty. Executive producer of entertainment and corporate events, died March 11 in Los Angeles, CA. He was 48. He is survived by wife Nancy Linari; daughter Emilia, 6; son Michael, 3; parents Carl and Lorraine House and sister Sandy David. Services are 10AM Monday, March 18 at St. Fran
 IMBERMAN-Jacob. On March 11, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlyn, adored father of Joseph and Diane, and cherished grandfather of Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth. He is survived by his wife, Arlyn, his two children, Joseph Imberman and Diane Albert, a sister, Ruth Taxel and a brother, Milton
 LEWIS-Hubert duBois, Col., (US Army Retired) died in Marshall, TX on March 11, 2002 at the age of 95. An honors graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1930, Col. Lewis served with distinction in the United States Army until his retirement in 1958. During his long ca
 MA-Siki. On March 11, 2002. The Ma family mourns the passing of their dear father, husband, brother and son, Siki Ma. A dedicated owner of an optical enterprise, Siki Ma led by example and did much to expand his business. We are grateful and fortunate to have known a man who was as compassi
 QUILTER-Mathew J. Former executive with Exxon Corporation in both Europe and Latin America, died February 24, 2002 in Sarasota, FL. He is survived by his wife, Elvira Quilter of Longboat Key, FL, his children Valerie Quilter of Buenos Aires, Argentina, David Quilter of Cambridge, MA, Monica
 ROSS-James K. On March 5, 2002. Beloved father of Valerie, fatherin-law to Robert Gould and grandfather to Lila Brea Gould. Most cherished friend of Shirley Kaplan. Known as a man of ethics with a keen understanding and love of the arts. Worked as an editor and subsidiary rights director fo
 SANDERS-Stanley. On March 16, 2002. Loving brother of Jerome. Dear brother-in-law of Maxine. Devoted uncle of Samantha and Jason. He will be deeply missed. Service Monday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SCHOTT-Maurice. 84. On March 13, 2002. A loving father, grandfather and friend who brought joy to all who knew him.       
 SHERMAN-Murray, 92. Attorney, March 7, in Plantation, FL. In W.W. II Capt. Murray served in USAAF in Europe as an Intelligence Officer. He managed a realty corp. in NYC in '50s and '60s and moved to FL in '73 with wife Essie, who died in '77. Survived by brother, Sidney of Merritt Island, F
 SIMPSON-The Rev. James B., 75, Episcopal priest, author, journalist and former public relations account executive, died March 11 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C. of complications following a stroke. Born in Arkansas, Fr. Simpson was educated at Northwestern University, 
 STEWART-Millard. Died March 14, 2002, at age 77. He is survived by his devoted wife, Carrie Stewart, children: Lisha Cole and John Stewart, son-in-law, Leroy Cole, daughter-in-law, Girsie Stewart, niece Gail Starling, favorite cousin, Ollivia Woods, nephew, Millard Thomas Starling, great-ne
 TOPLITZ-George N. The partners, associates and staff of Greenberg, Trager & Herbst, LLP note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague George Nathan Toplitz. An accomplished and admired advocate, George was a pillar of the firm, a great resource and widely respected by
 WEINGARTEN-Fred. The officers, Board members and staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Fred Weingarten, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Naomi and his daughters Jill, Roni and son David. Steven Goldstein, President Fran Lilling, Women's Group Pres.
 WEMPLE-William, 89, of Charlottesville, VA, died at his home on February 25, 2002. He was a partner for 50 years at the NYC law firm, Dewey Ballantine. He is survived by his brother, F.H. Wemple of Plandome, NY; by his seven children, Littlepaige Wemple and Katherine Holland (Holly) Wemple 
 WILLING-Loran. Retired Colonel, age 76 of Alpharetta, GA. Died Thursday, March 14, 2002. Colonel Willing was a US Army Veteran who served in WWII and Korea. He is survived by his wife Jean Willing of Alpharetta; daughters and sons-in-law, Melissa and Steven Rice of Commack, NY; Cheryl and R
 BANKS-Monty, Jr. (Leo Lowenstein, Jr.) Passed into eternity on the 13th day of March to join his beloved wife Erma, who passed in March of 1989. His son, Laird Banks, invites friends and family to attend memorial services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th St, Sunday, March 17, 2 PM 
 CORLESS-Richard Timothy. 4 December 1950-14 March 1986 We hope, remember and pray for his and all our dreams unrealized and time not lived. Your mother and sister, Margaret Marchese Corless Arlene Conboy       
 Thomas Griffith, who began his journalism career as a police reporter in Seattle and went on to become one of the most powerful editors at Time Inc. during a 30-year career there, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Once called the ''house liberal
 Avraham Tory, a Lithuanian Jew whose meticulous diary chronicled three years of murderous Nazi rule and was later included as evidence in war crimes trials, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 92. In the Jewish ghetto in Kovno, in central Lithuania, Mr. Tory, a lawyer, s
 BREUER-Jacob. Of Jerusalem, Israel, passed away peacefully on March 15, 2002, at age 83. A gentle man, well known for his great intellect and sense of humor, he was married for 22 beautiful years to his beloved Judy. Loving son of the late Rika & Rav. Dr. Joseph Breuer; adored brother of Ed
 CORROON-George A. Of Atlantis, FL, and Garden City, NY, died March 16, 2002, at the age of 88, after a brief illness. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 4, 1913, Mr. Corroon was the son of the late Richard A. Corroon and Margaret Teaken Corroon. Richard A. Corroon was the founder of the company 
 PARNES-Jerry. March 11, 2002. Longtime resident of Manhattan and Westhampton. Founded, with Morton and Burton, Parnes Bros. Real Estate. Accomplished sculptor and artist. Survived by Renate Reidel, loving companion of 34 years, brother Morton, and five nephews. May he rest in peace.       
 POSNER-Adolph, M.D. The members of the Manhattan Ophthalmological Society mourn the death of their honored member and founder Adolph Posner, M.D. A true giant in the field, his teaching and learning for over 50 years inspired us all.       
 SPILKE-David Herschel. Passed away peacefully in his sleep. Deeply mourned by his wife Francine, daughter Pia and son-in-law Michael Shlomo, sons Steven and Gary, and daughter-in-law Leslie, and granddaughter Holley, sister Jean Paget. He was a man of principal and honor and dignity. His ch
 WEINGARTEN - P. Fred. On March 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Naomi. Dear father of David and Renee, Roni and Mark Greenberg, and Jill. Adored grandfather of Adam, Leah, Matthew, Lisa and Michelle. Brother of Mildred Abrams. A friend of many who will be sorely missed. Services Tuesday, 9:30 A
 Sylvester L. Weaver Jr., a pioneering television executive who created the NBC programs ''Today'' and ''Tonight'' and did much to shape the medium's pervasive influence, died Friday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Weaver, who worked at NBC from 1949 until 1956, w
 Thomas Griffith, who began his journalism career as a police reporter in Seattle and went on to become one of the most powerful editors at Time Inc. during a 30-year career there, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Once called the ''house liberal
 Warren J. Harding, a legend among rock climbing aficionados since his years of dogged assaults on the towering ramparts of Yosemite Valley, died Feb. 27 at his home in the mountain and lake country near Anderson, Calif. He was 77. He began climbing in the early 1950's, when popular 
 David Mann, who wrote the music for the popular 1955 song ''In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning,'' which was recorded by Frank Sinatra, died on March 1 in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Kinnelon, N.J. Mr. Mann, who was known professionally as Dave Mann, was also a piani
 John Erickson, one of the foremost scholars on the development of the Red Army and its role in World War II, died on Feb. 10 in a hospital in Edinburgh. He was 72. He had come down with a bad case of the flu and then contracted an infection, from which he died, said a friend, David 
 ALTSCHUL-Arthur Goodhart. On March 17, 2002, at age 81. Beloved husband of Patricia Dey Altschul. Loving father of Dr. Stephen, Charles, Arthur Jr., Emily, Serena, stepson Whitney Smith, and grandfather of William & James. Dear brother of Edith Graham and the late Margaret Lang. Friends may
 COHEN-Issie (Pierre). On March 18, 2002. A special, special man. Husband, Daddy, Grampa, fatherin-law, brother, uncle and friend. He will be missed for his kindness & laughter. We loved him dearly. Services Wednesday, 12:30 PM, at ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expwy., Fresh Meado
 COHEN-Michael Stuart. Suddenly on March 18, 2002. Loving husband of the late Joan. Devoted father of Kevin. Cherished brother of Dr. Herrick and Ellyn Cohen, and devoted friend of Eleanor Brown. He was a unique and very special person who will be missed by all who loved him. Services Tuesda
 CORROON-George A. Of Atlantis, FL, and Garden City, NY, died March 16, 2002, at the age of 88, after a brief illness. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 4, 1913, Mr. Corroon was the son of the late Richard A. Corroon and Margaret Teaken Corroon. Richard A. Corroon was the founder of the company 
 GATELY-Martin J., MD. On March 18, 2002 of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of the late Mary Patricia. Loving father of Tricia & John Rowe, Martin & Mary Ellen Gately, Kevin and Terry Gately, Dr. Michael & Sherry Gately, Rosemary & Peter O'Neill, Timothy & Charleen Gately. Also survived by ei
 GEFFEN-Rabbi Samuel. The entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the passing of our beloved founder Peter Geffen's revered father, Rabbi Samuel Geffen. Rabbi Geffen was an exceptionally talented man, who was a concert violinist and lawyer before becoming a Rabbi. He was the de
 GROSSMAN-Edward N. Beloved husband and friend of Selma for 50 years, died March 17, at home in Scarsdale. He will be forever loved by son Jeff and wife Sorena, daughter Jody, and grandchildren Casey, Jesse & Joel. Ed's humor, integrity and love made him an incredible husband, father, friend
 HIRSCHMAN - Anne. Advanced Viral Research Corp extends our condolendes to our beloved and respected CEO, Dr. Shalom Z. and Fran E. Hirschman, on the passing of his beloved mother, of blessed memory.       
 McCARTHY - Margaret. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Local 553 Pension Fund extend their deepest sympathy to our Trustee, Justin McCarthy, over the loss of his beloved mother who passed away on March 14, 2002. Bernard Pellegrino Robert B. Greenes Demos Demopoulos and Lawrence Scuder 
 MILLER-Lindley G., President of Miller-Davison & Co. of Locust Valley and retired Village Justice of Upper Brookville, died Saturday, March 16, 2002, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the former Patricia Cromwell and devoted father of Barbara C. Miller, Alexandra M. Cooper, Patricia
 PICKUS-Ralph. Age 75. Husband of Patricia Belmont Pickus, son of the late Isidor and Mary Roseman Pickus, died Saturday evening at his home in Niantic. Survived by son David; daughter Karen; stepson Mark McNiven; step-daughter Anne McNiven; brother Edward; seven grandchildren; predeceased b
 RUBINSTEIN-Irving. Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly from New York City, died Monday morning, March 18, 2002. He is survived by his wife Adele; his sons Bobby and Marc; his grandchildren Craig, Brett, Jordan, Jennifer and Nathaniel. The funeral will be held Thursday morning at 11 AM at Riverside 
 WEAVER-Sylvester L. (Pat) Jr. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and MDA president from 1975 to 1979. A visionary in the field of broadcast communications, Pat began his association with MDA in 1967. His broadcasting genius helped guide the expansion of the Labor Day Telethon to its prese
 WEINGARTEN-Fred P. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Fred P. Weingarten, on March 15. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Tuesday, March 19, 9:30 AM at Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern B
 Paul Runyan, who twice won the P.G.A. Championship in the 1930's, the second time routing Sam Snead in match play for one of golf's most stunning upsets, died Sunday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 93. ''I've taken some pleasure out of being the little guy who has beaten the big fell
 Alonzo Galloway Decker Jr., who made Black & Decker into a household name by putting power tools on the do-it-yourselfer's work bench, died Monday at his home in Earleville, Md. He was 94. The idea underlying the company's success came to him during World War II when he was vice pre
 Arthur G. Altschul, an art collector, investment banker and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Centre Island, N.Y.. He was 81 and also lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He had been in declining health for several months, his son Arthur G. Jr. said. Mr. Al
 Joseph Charles, who became famous by being very, very friendly, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. He was 91. Every weekday morning for three decades, Mr. Charles stood on a street corner in adjacent Berkeley and waved to each passing motorist. It made him a local legend, indeed, s
 ALTSCHUL-Arthur Goodhart. On March 17, 2002, at age 81. Beloved husband of Patricia Dey Altschul. Loving father of Dr. Stephen, Charles, Arthur Jr., Emily, Serena, stepson Whitney Smith, and grandfather of William & James. Dear brother of Edith Graham and the late Margaret Lang. Friends may
 GATELY-Martin J., MD. On March 18, 2002 of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of the late Mary Patricia. Loving father of Tricia & John Rowe, Martin & Mary Ellen Gately, Kevin and Terry Gately, Dr. Michael & Sherry Gately, Rosemary & Peter O'Neill, Timothy & Charleen Gately. Also survived by ei
 MEISNER-Anton. A survivor of The Holocaust, died March 17, 2002, at the age of seventy-four years. He was taken from his home of Sighten, Transylvania, to Auschwitz, and then to Buchenwald, where his mother, father, and brother were killed. Liberated by the Americans, aided by the OSE, an o
 NEWMAN-Harry, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of one of our founding faculty members, who served our medical school with distinction and devotion for more than 25 years. Our acting chairman of urology from 1972 to 1980, he was appointed profess
 PARSON-William B., 72. Of Trumbull, CT. died March 18, 2002 at Shelton Lakes Nursing Home, Shelton, CT. Born in Shenandoah, Iowa on May 1, 1929, he was the son of the late Walter and Grace Parson of Centerville, Iowa. A longtime resident of Stamford, CT, he was employed at the New York Time
 PURCELL-Gerard W. President of Gerard W. Purcell Associates in New York. He had more than 50 years experience in the entertainment industry. Experience that encompassed an enormous variety of accomplishments. He co-produced many of the Perry Como and Red Skelton shows. Gerard Purcell was th
 RUBINSTEIN-Irving. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, New York, on behalf of its membership wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Irving Rubinstein. He will be sorely missed.       
 RUNYAN-Paul. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our former golf pro and two time PGA champion and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Joyce Baumgarten, Secretary       
 TURTLE-Norman, 81. Of Rockville Centre, passed away March 19, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Shirley. He is survived by his dearest friend, Jean. Loving father of John and Randee, Jeri & Andrew, and Randy. Cherished grandfather of four. He was an active volunteer at Long Island Jewish Ho
 John E. Robson, whose leadership as president and chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States helped shape the Bush administration's trade and foreign policy agenda, died today. He was 71. The cause was complications from a six-month battle with cancer, according to a st
 Leonard Gershe, a playwright and screenwriter who was the author of the hit play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died on March 9 in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills. The cause was complications from a stroke, said Harold Nelson, his business manager
 Milton C. Rose, a partner at the Wall Street law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon, died on Tuesday at his home in Alford, Mass. He was 97 and had worked as a lawyer for over 60 years. The Mudge Rose firm closed in 1995 but not before gaining fame, and considerable busin
 ALTSCHUL-Arthur Goodhart. On March 17, 2002, at age 81. Beloved husband of Patricia Dey Altschul. Loving father of Dr. Stephen, Charles, Arthur Jr., Emily, Serena, stepson Whitney Smith, and grandfather of William & James. Dear brother of Edith Graham and the late Margaret Lang. Friends may
 COHEN-Milton. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Ruth, daughter Laura and son-in-law Hank Arkin and family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Alan Sussman, President Rabbi Cha
 GEFFEN-Rabbi Samuel. We mourn with deep sorrow the passing of our beloved Rabbi and spiritual leader of the past 47 years. He was an inspiring man of God who taught our children and our grandchildren in our Religious School including almost 2000 Bar Mitzvah and Bat Mitzvah students. He was 
 HARTMANN-Rolf Dieter. Of Cold Spring Harbor, New York. On Mar. 17, 2002, age 68 at Manasota Key, Florida after a courageous battle with cancer. Devoted and loving husband of Carlotta for 45 years, & adoring father of Erika Couture and her husband Joseph of Colchester, Vermont; Lisa Matricar
 LIECHTUNG-Herbert. The Officers, Employees and Trustees of Atlantic Realty Trust are deeply saddened by the passing of Herbert Leichtung, a former Trustee, and Past President of RPS Realty Trust. We very much valued his wise counsel and guidance, and cherished his friendship. He will be gre
 SCHLOSSMAN - Frederick. On March 19, 2002. Beloved uncle of Alan Schlossman, Gary Schlossman and Carol Comeau. He will be remembered for his caring, charitable spirit and sharp wit by many life long friends and neighbors. Services March 21, 12:15 at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Av, Bklyn.    
 SHEARN-William G., 72. Of Sarasota, FL on March 19, 2002. Graduate of the Cornell School of Hotel Administration. Survived by one brother Gregory of Greentown, PA., and nieces Marcella Dietz of McLean, VA and Claudia O'Donnell of Winchester, MA. Predeceased by his sister Marcella Shearn Han
 WINBERGH-Gosta. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of our friend and colleague, Gosta Winbergh, who sang six roles with our Company. He made his debut in 1983 as Don Ottavio in ''Don Giovanni'' and also appeared here in other Mozart roles as well as Don Jose in ''Carmen'', a r
 CAKARS-Maris. In memory of a lover of freedom and fighter for peace, on the ten year anniversary of his death. Husband of Susan, father of Janis & Andrea. We love and miss him.       
 Walter J. Rockler, a Washington lawyer who was the first director of the Justice Department agency that identifies and deports former Nazis, died on March 8 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Julia Tillery, said. Mr. Rockler, wh
 William Root, one of America's greatest bridge players, died on Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said Michael Rogers of Boynton Beach, Fla., a professional colleague. Mr. Root, a professional bridge instructor who may have had more students than an
 Former Senator Herman E. Talmadge, an old-fashioned Southern populist who built schools as governor of Georgia and then called for stopping desegregation by closing them, died today at his Hampton, Ga., home. He was 88. Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat who was elected governor twice, lost h
 The Rev. Carl McIntire, a fiery radio evangelist who preached an amalgam of fundamentalist Christianity and hawkish patriotism, died Tuesday in Voorhees, N.J. He was 95. His daughter Marianna Clark said he had lived in the same house in Collingswood, N.J., since 1939. Mr. Mc
 ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Board of Trustees of St. Bernard's School notes with sorrow the death of its past-president, Arthur G. Altschul, who lead the board with wisdom and compassion. He had a lifetime interest in the school. He was a graduate of the class of 1933, and very recently served a
 DIXON-Donald M. Journalist, television news and documentary film producer, marathon runner, 74, of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. Died on March 10, 2002. He leaves his loving wife, children, and grandchildren. He was a brave and faithful man.       
 FINN-James. He loved and was loved by Molly, Abby, Deirdre and David, Daniel, Rebecca, Hannah and John and Olivia. We will always miss him. Family will receive visitors at the Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker Street, NYC, 2-5PM Saturday and Sunday. Funeral Mass on Monday, 9:30AM
 GERSTEN-Maurice R. Of Simsbury and Hartford, CT, died on March 18, 2002. Maurice was one of 14 siblings, a graduate of Simsbury High School, and he received undergraduate and law degrees from George Washington University. Maurice was an active legal practitioner from 1946 to the present, a 
 KATZ-Stephen G. On March 21, 2002. We, the Katz family, are very saddened by the tragic loss of our father. Dear friend of Arlene; loving and cherished father of Lauren and Brandy; adoring grandfather of Olivia; kind fatherin-law of John. We will forever miss him and hold him close to our h
 KEENAN-Thomas J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Thomas J. Keenan, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The entire Yeshiva University & its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) family express profound sorrow over the passing, in Jerusalem, of its revered senior vice president emeritus. Rabbi Miller was a truly inspiring leader, humanitarian, collea
 PARSONS-Reverend Harold J. On March 21, 2002. Ordained in 1929. Oldest priest in the Archdiocese of New York. Last assignment was at St. Peter's, RC Church, Barclay St, NYC. Served many parishes in the Archdiocese and affected many people in the practice of their faith. His dedication to th
 SCHLECHTER-Arthur D. Died quietly at home after a short illness at the age of 88. Survived by his loving brother Herbert & sisterin-law Selma, beloved companion to Karola Sallan and dear friend to her son Dr. Stephen Sallan and his wife Darlene and children, devoted uncle of Bruce and Susan
 WILDER-Rex C. March 18, 2002. Died at home after a long illness. Life partner for 45 years to the late Richard Roussin. Survived by his beloved brother Ray and his nieces Georgia Wilder and Lydia Marie Gould, five grand-nieces and nephews and five great grand-nieces and nephews. Memorial se
 RIEGNER-Gerhart M. Of the World Jewish Congress. A memorial service in his honor at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue Mar 24, 1 PM, 30 W. 68 St & CPW.       
 James J. Dunn, the publisher of Forbes magazine for 20 years, died on Monday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 81 and formerly lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Dunn was publisher of Forbes magazine, as well as vice president of Forbes Inc., from 1966 to 1988. He move
 FLANAGAN-Thomas. The American Irish Historical Society mourns the death of its longtime Historiographer and previous Gold Medalist. He was a great writer and teacher, and our beloved friend. Kevin M. Cahill, M.D. President-General       
 HERMANN-Arthur E., DDS. On March 21, 2002 in Roslyn, NY after a nine month struggle following heart surgery. Beloved husband of Mildred Hermann. Loving father of Laurie Schwartzer, Elizabeth Schoenfeld and Jane Simons. Father-in-law of Richard Schwartzer, Larry Schoenfeld and Paul Simons. D
 KAISER-Hans, 91. On March 21st, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Johanna Kaiser (nee Frank). Devoted and loving father of Richard and Ann and loving father-inlaw of Susan. Cherished grandfather and grandfather-in-law of Michael and Pam; Steven; Cara; Deborah; Rob and Jill. Adored great
 KATZ-Stephen G. On March 21, 2002. We, the Katz family, are very saddened by the tragic loss of our father. Dear friend of Arlene; loving and cherished father of Lauren and Brandy; adoring grandfather of Olivia; kind fatherin-law of John. We will forever miss him and hold him close to our h
 MILLER - Rabbi Israel. The Trustees and staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust deeply mourn the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller. A revered leader of the Jewish people as President of the Claims Conference since 1982, he was dedicated to its mission to obtai
 SCHLECHTER-Arthur D. Died quietly at home after a short illness at the age of 88. Survived by his loving brother Herbert & sisterin-law Selma, beloved companion to Karola Sallan and dear friend to her son Dr. Stephen Sallan and his wife Darlene and children, devoted uncle of Bruce and Susan
 TURNER-Harvey David. Beloved husband of Barbara Persky Turner. Adored by his son Jeffrey Turner, his daughter Susan Daltrey Turner and her partner Cheryl Murray. Loving grandfather of Dylan and Jason Turner. Devoted brother and brother-in-law of Natalie & Jacob Lebovitz. Formerly of Roslyn 
 WEITZ-Dr. Leo. Devoted father of Barbara Pollard; loving grandfather of Laura Masurovsky and Jonathan Pollard; delighted greatgrandfather of Alex, Adam, Jason, Benjamin and Danielle. An avid proponent of public education, Dr. Weitz served as Principal of James Monroe High School in the Bron
 RUPERT-Rudolph. In loving memory of my son, Rudolph Emanuel Rupert: You always said I cannot spend one day without mentioning your name. Since March 23, 2001, the day you parted from us, every part of my heart still cries out for you and your name rings in my soul. To all of you who loved h
 Rabbi Israel Miller, a leading advocate for Holocaust survivors as president of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, died on Thursday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 83 and had moved to Israel from Manhattan about two years ago. He had a brief illness, the conf
 Steve Gromek, the Cleveland Indians pitcher who provided a signature moment in the integration of Major League Baseball when he was photographed in a joyful embrace with Larry Doby at the 1948 World Series, died March 12 at a hospital in Clinton Township, Mich. He was 82. Gromek, wh
 William H. Scholl, the son of a founder of the Dr. Scholl's company and the developer of the wooden sandals that became as much fashion as foot care, died March 15 at a hospital in Douglas, on the Isle of Man. He was 81 and lived on the Isle of Man, an autonomous British crown autho
 Jean-Paul Riopelle, one of Canada's most celebrated modern artists and an important figure in postwar French art, died on March 12 at his home on the Île aux Grues, an island in the St. Lawrence River east of Quebec City. He was 78. Living in France during the most productive decad
 BOETTIGHEIMER-Ludwig. Born in Frankfort 93 years ago, Luddi died March 23, after a long illness. Devoted husband of more than 60 years of Marianne. A lover of culture, the arts and Judaism. For decades, a leading light amongst the volunteers of Channel 13. A man of firey intellect, intellig
 CARDWELL-Daniele Seth. Age 40, died March 21, 2002, after an 18 month courageous battle against Castleman's Disease. He is survived and will always be remembered and loved by his life partner, George B. Buckner, his mother, Lillie Mae Cardwell, his loving siblings, Patricia and Linda, and s
 GIL-David, 79. A resident of North Pownal, VT., died unexpectedly early Monday morning, March 18, 2002 at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, VT. Born May 29, 1922 in New York City, NY, he was the son of Louis and Rose Goldfarb. He grew up in the city and later served as 
 GILFOND-Henry. Age 94, died of a heart attack on January 31, 2002, in Southampton, N.Y. Born in Ekaterinoslav, Ukraine, on May 29, 1907, he emigrated with his family to England and then to the United States in 1917. He graduated from The College of the City of NY in 1927. Poet, playwright, 
 GOODMAN-Rabbi Abram Vossen. We mourn the loss of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus Abram Vossen Goodman, died peacefuy at the age of 99. We are grateful for his 50 years of service, inspiration and love. Please call Temple Sinai for funeral information, 516569-0267. Temple Sinai of Long Island Pau
 HANISCH - Herman. Professor Emeritus of Mathamatics at City College of New York, passed away on March 11, 2002, peacefully at home in Riverdale, NY, at the age of 72. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School and the City College, and received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from New York Universit
 HOLZMAN-Seymour, Ph.D. Died March 18, 2002 at age 78 after a long illness. He is survived by Rosalie, his beloved wife of 35 years. He was a practicing clinical psychologist, earned his Ph.D. at University College, London, and did advanced work in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis at Postgra
 KAISER-Hans, 91. On March 21st, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Johanna Kaiser (nee Frank). Devoted and loving father of Richard and Ann and loving father-inlaw of Susan. Cherished grandfather and grandfather-in-law of Michael and Pam; Steven; Cara; Deborah; Rob and Jill. Adored great
 KATZ-Stephen G. On March 21, 2002. We, the Katz family, are very saddened by the tragic loss of our father. Dear friend of Arlene; loving and cherished father of Lauren and Brandy; adoring grandfather of Olivia; kind fatherin-law of John. We will forever miss him and hold him close to our h
 LIEBOWITZ - Louis. 91. Died peacefully March 18. Father of Bob, Rick, Laura and Betty, with his dear deceased wife Freda. He leaves behind his wife Betty, grandchildren Bob, Larry, David Emma, Alex, Roni, Jon, Jeremy, Ann, Jesse and Lori. Beautiful great-grandchildren Cathy, Sarah, Lily, Ze
 LOVE-David A. On February 11, 2002, in New York City, at the age of 61. Associate Vice President for Research and Development, Oberlin College, since 1994. A native of Norwich, England, and a graduate of the University of Bristol, Mr. Love was Instructor in Philosophy at Duke University (19
 MANN-R. Mowry, of Hamburg Road, Lyme, CT, died Thursday, at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, CT, at age 57. Mowry was born and grew up in Montclair, NJ. He was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He worked in advertising with Marste
 MASSEY-John K. On March 22, 2002, 91 years old, of Boca Raton, Fla., formerly of New York where was Chairman of the English Dept and taught at Flushing High School, also Roosevelt High School in the Bronx; 2nd Lieutenant in WWII Medical Corp. He is survived by his son John S. Massey (Judy) 
 MESCON-Howard. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, on March 22. Adored husband for 56 years of the late Florence Mescon, beloved father of Richard and Michael, proud ''Honey'' to grandchildren Andrew, Jennie, David, Daniel and Hannah, cherished father-in-law of Miriam and caring su
 MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Officers, Executive Board and staff of the American Society for Yad Vashem records with profound sorrow the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller. He was the first among American Jewish leaders to encourage Holocaust survivors to give voice to the pain of their tortured pa
 MURPHY -Charles H., 82. Died at his home in El Dorado, Arkansas March 20, 2002. His wife, Johnie Walker Murphy, preceded him in death; surviving him are: four children; Michael Walker Murphy, Martha Wilson Murphy, Charles Haywood Murphy, III, and Robert Madison Murphy; three sisters, Theodo
 SCHLECHTER-Arthur D. Died quietly at home after a short illness at the age of 88. Survived by his loving brother Herbert & sisterin-law Selma, beloved companion to Karola Sallan and dear friend to her son Dr. Stephen Sallan and his wife Darlene and children, devoted uncle of Bruce and Susan
 SCHWARTZ-Lawrence N., 72, of Long Island & Siesta Key, Florida. Died March 12, 2002 at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville following a January 4, 2002 kidney transplant. He is survived by his devoted wife Helen, daughter Terry Merrill, son Michael, and four grandchildren. He retired in sales fr
 THRAP-OLSEN-Hans. On March 21st, 2002 at age 78. Survived by his brothers, Olav and Einar and his friend David W. Blakeslee. Interment and service private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Leukemia and Lymphoma Services, 1275 York Avenue, NY
 WAGGONER-Leland Tate. The American Bible Society mourns the passing of Leland Tate Waggoner, a member of the American Bible Society Board of Trustees, who died March 14. He was a member of the Board since 1974. Mr. Waggoner was retired and formerly worked as president of Life of Virginia of
 WEITZ-Dr. Leo. Devoted father of Barbara Pollard; loving grandfather of Laura Masurovsky and Jonathan Pollard; delighted greatgrandfather of Alex, Adam, Jason, Benjamin and Danielle. An avid proponent of public education, Dr. Weitz served as Principal of James Monroe High School in the Bron
 GERMAIN-Lawrence. 11th Anniversary I wished upon a star last night I dreamt that it came true What I wished for was an hour just to sit and talk to you You have crossed the golden river to a shore forever green Each day I long to see you But God's river runs between As long as hearts keep b
 ROSENBERG-Samuel R. New York State Supreme Court Judge, Washington Heights District Leader, community activist, husband of Sherry Levy Rosenberg, father of Ronald S. Rosenberg, Ted Rose, and Adrienne Jurmark, on March 3, 2001. We mourn the passing of our dearly beloved father and pray for h
 RUPERT-Rudolph. In loving memory of my son, Rudolph Emanuel Rupert: You always said I cannot spend one day without mentioning your name. Since March 23, 2001, the day you parted from us, every part of my heart still cries out for you and your name rings in my soul. To all of you who loved h
 TOVELL-Harold M.M., MD, peacefully slept away in his Florida home last May. Born in Toronto, Canada, he received his medical degree at the University of Toronto. Later he completed a tour of duty in the Canadian Army Medical Corps. After moving to NYC in 1949 he spent five years in residenc
 Hans-Georg Gadamer, a leading figure of 20th-century philosophy who spent an extraordinarily long career contemplating the nature of meaning and understanding, died in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 13. He was 102. A student of Martin Heidegger and the successor of Karl Jaspers at He
 Dr. John M. Eisenberg, a former medical educator who led the federal agency that monitors quality and safety in health care and research, died on March 10 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 55. The cause was a brain tumor, said Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human servic
 Big John Patton, a soul-jazz organ player who was a mainstay of the East Coast organ-club circuit since the early 1960's, died on Tuesday in Montclair, N.J. He was 66. The cause was complications from diabetes and kidney malfunction, his wife, Thelma, said. Mr. Patton's styl
 BOETTIGHEIMER-Ludwig. On March 23, 2002, in his 94th year. Beloved husband of Marianne, devoted friend to many. Services today March 25, 11 AM, at Congregation Habonim, 44 West 66th St. Contributions to Congregation Habonim will be appreciated. BOETTIGHEIMER-Ludwig. The clergy, Boar
 BRIGGS-James G. Of 10th Street, died Friday, March 22, 2002, at the Brooklyn VA Hospital in Bay Ridge. He was 79. Born on January 12, 1923, in Saratoga Springs, he was the son of the late James T. and Margaret Briggs. Mr. Briggs was a Sergeant First Class in the United States Army serving f
 DORNFELD-Leslie Paris, M.D. On Friday, March 22, 2002, at the age of 64. Beloved husband of Mariagrazia. Devoted son of Morton and Dorothy. Dear brother of Paris. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Tuesday, March 26th, 4 PM. For further i
 JOSEPH-Andrew James. Much beloved husband of Suhasini (Sue). Devoted and loving father of Ravindra and Nilufer, adored father-in-law of Anne and Peter and cherished grandfather of Anjali, Lauren, Madeleine, Cassidy, James and India. He also leaves behind his dearly loved sisters Amybelle, I
 MESCON-Howard. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, on March 22. Adored husband for 56 years of the late Florence Mescon, beloved father of Richard and Michael, proud ''Honey'' to grandchildren Andrew, Jennie, David, Daniel and Hannah, cherished father-in-law of Miriam and caring su
 MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The members of the Board of Directors of Camp Morasha deeply mourn the passing of a founding father and visionary who helped establish our mission of educational camping in the Modern-Orthodox community. Rabbi Miller served as Educational Chairman for over three decades
 ROBSON-John Edwin. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with sorrow the death of their friend, John Robson, the husband of Margaret Robson, a devoted member of the Museum's Board. Possessed of a winning personality, keen intellect and a true co
 WALLENS-Stanley M. Beloved husband of Elsie. Devoted father of Laura Gold, Cathy Wallens and Peter Wallens. Cherished grandfather of Joanna, Allison, Amber and Rebecca. Loving brother of Dorothy Appelbaum and Irving Wallens. Services Monday, 1:30 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 Nor
 Dr. César Milstein, who shared the 1984 Nobel Prize in Medicine for a revolutionary technique to produce antibodies that latch onto specific proteins, died on Sunday in Cambridge, England. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, according to the laboratory at Cambridge University
 ABRAHAM-Jacob W. On Mar. 25, 2002. Beloved husband of Regina A. Abraham. Devoted son of the late Louis & Esther (Weisner). Former Justice of The Supreme Court, New York County. Past President, Bankruptcy Lawyers Bar Association. New York State Labor Department Special Referee. For over twen
 BORENSTEIN-Samuel. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved and esteemed member, Samuel Borenstein. He is fondly remembered for over 50 years of support and leadership, including service as President from 1975 to 1985. May the family be com
 BOWEN-Louis W., March 22, 2002. Businessman, interior designer, long associated with the Winter Antiques Show. Born in Los Angeles in 1914, he attended UCLA until 1936 when he was hired by Dorothy Hammerstein as her interior design assistant. When Mrs. Hammerstein reopened her business in N
 DORNFELD-Leslie Paris, M.D. On Friday, March 22, 2002, at the age of 64. Beloved husband of Mariagrazia. Devoted son of Morton and Dorothy. Dear brother of Paris. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Tuesday, March 26th, 4 PM. For further i
 FENTON-Martin E. On March 24, 2002. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday, March 26th, 11:30AM. Our beloved Martin, you will be greatly missed. You are a hero and a gentleman. Contributions in his memory may be made to The American Cancer Society. Love, Daphne, J
 GILCHRIST-David I. Of Southampton Village died of respiratory failure at Southampton Hospital on Wednesday evening March 20 at the age of 78. He was a lieutenant in the US Navy from 1943 to 1946 on a yard minesweeper. He attended Swarthmore College and Columbia University Law School where h
 KELLY-Dr. Chester Scott. Died Friday, March 22, 2002, Louisville, KY. He was 70 years old. Born in Hazard, KY, son of Chester and Rachel Kelly. Graduated Phi Beta Kappa and valedictorian of Hampden-Sydney College, class of 1953. Served as Lieutenant in US Navy, earned MA in International Re
 LAPIDUS-Victor. His is survived by by his wife Barbara L., daughter and son-in-law Terry and Asa Hazen, son and daughter-in-law Robert L. and Carol Lapidus and grandchildren Alexandra and Bryan Lapidus, and Eric, Leah and Stacey Hazen. Services today, 11AM, Temple Beth El, Stamford. Interme
 MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The American Jewish Committee mourns the passing of an admired leader and esteemed friend. Rabbi Miller served the Jewish people in countless ways. He was a man of exceptional dedication, compassion, kindness and modesty. We shall always be grateful for his manifold ach
 SCOTT-George H., 94. On March 24, peacefully at home in Florida. Adored and cherished husband of Hazel (Leichter) and the late Thelma (Lippman). Loving father of Jane Lande and Nancy and husband Arthur Stampleman. Stepfather of Beth Sommer and Anthony Leichter. Proud and loving grandfather 
 GERMAIN-Lawrence. 11th Anniversary I wished upon a star last night I dreamt that it came true What I wished for was an hour just to sit and talk to you You have crossed the golden river to a shore forever green Each day I long to see you But God's river runs between As long as hearts keep b
 Ernest van den Haag, a conservative commentator on social issues, especially crime, and a leading advocate of the death penalty, died on Thursday in Mendham, N.J. He was 87 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He died at a nursing home, succumbing ''to the my
 BORENSTEIN-Samuel. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished longtime friend, who, with his first wife, Blume, was a Founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and with his second wife, Lillian Brown Borenstein, was a YU Guardian. Our heartfelt
 BOWEN-Louis W. The Board of Managers and staff of East Side House Settlement are profoundly saddened by the passing of Louis W. Bowen. A dear friend and devoted benefactor, he joined the Board of Managers in 1968 and provided dynamic and tireless leadership of the Winter Show Committee for 
 COHEN-Lucille F. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Devoted mother of Gilbert with his wife Andrea, Michael and the late Carol. Adored grandmother of Wendi and Alanna. Cherished sister of Sid Frank, Elaine Kranis and the late Herb Frank and Frankie Marx. Services Wednesday, March 27th, 9:30A
 CUTLER-E. Newton Jr. Of Bryn Mawr, PA. and Edgartown, MA. On March 24th, 2002. Age 86. He graduated from St. Paul's SchoolConcord, N.H. in 1933 and from Princeton University in 1937. He served in W.W. II as a Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps. He spent over 35 years with Citibank
 EFROS-Allen. Of Brooklyn, NY, died early Tuesday, March 26, 2002 at the age of 87. Beloved husband of the late Belle Efros, to whom he was married for more than 50 years before she died in December 1997. Survived by nieces and nephews, Mr. Efros was a well respected accountant, practicing i
 GUTTER-William. On March 25 at the age of eighty, died peacefully after a long illness. Beloved husband of Ruth (Rubenstein) for fifty-seven years, devoted father of Lawrence and Lynn, loving father-in-law of Ellen, and grandfather of Amy. Good friend and brother-in-law of Martin Rubenstein
 MARVELL-Dr. Philemon ''P.T.'' Truesdale Marvell II, age 33 of Newport and Little Compton, RI. A gentleman with a beautiful mind. Amazing son and brother of Dr. Philemon ''Captain'' Truesdale Marvell and Rhonda (Moore) Marvell & Edward Brayton ''Ted'' Marvell and his fiance, Lauren Lankau, g
 MILLER-Israel. Consulate General of Israel in New York and the Mission to the U.N. deeply mourn the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, a prominent Jewish leader and a true advocate for Israel. Rabbi Miller devoted his life to promote Israel's well being, inspiring many with his wisdom and eloq
 PERLISH-Richard. March 16, 2002 in Boca Raton. Loving wife, Annabelle, daughter, Betty Helen, sister, Roz Muller and her family, niece, Sandra Fox, nephew, Mark, and his extended family in Atlanta. He loved life and spread joy.       
 RAMLO-Peter L. Of Bloomfield, New Jersey, suddenly on March 20, 2002. Loving brother and uncle. Cherished friend of many. He will be greatly missed. Services are in Decorah, Iowa. Contributions to In God's Name We Deliver and City Meals on Wheels.       
 SCOTT-George H., 94. On March 24, peacefully at home in Florida. Adored and cherished husband of Hazel (Leichter) and the late Thelma (Lippman). Loving father of Jane Lande and Nancy and husband Arthur Stampleman. Stepfather of Beth Sommer and Anthony Leichter. Proud and loving grandfather 
 SILVERSTEIN-Donald. Condolences to the Silverstein Family from his friends at National Bank of New York City. Richard Gelman, President       
 WATKINS-Ted J. Died peacefully at home on March 24, 2002 at age 82. He is survived by his beloved daughter Pamela K. and devoted son-in-law Robert J. Seligman of Manalapan, N.J., and cherished granddaughter Tiffany Dawn Seligman of Manalapan. He is a veteran of W.W. II, serving in the Army 
 WEINBERG-Sam. Died Sunday at the age of 93 in FL. Predeceased by his beloved wife, Sylvia and mourned by his daughter Arlene, son Stanley, his grandchildren Sharon, Mark, Scott, and Elisa, and great-grandson, Seth.       
 Thomas J. Kelly, the engineer who led the team that designed and built the spacecraft that landed Apollo astronauts on the Moon, died on Saturday at his home in Cutchogue, N.Y., on Long Island. He was 72. The cause was respiratory failure related to his six-year battle with pulmonar
 Dudley Moore, the multitalented British actor, comedian and musician noted for his performances in the 1960's stage revue ''Beyond the Fringe'' and the films ''10'' and ''Arthur,'' died yesterday at his home in Plainfield, N.J. He was 66. A spokeswoman for the actor said that the ca
 Mace Brown, an outstanding relief pitcher who yielded one of baseball's most memorable home runs, Gabby Hartnett's ''homer in the gloamin' '' that propelled the Chicago Cubs to the 1938 National League pennant, died Sunday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 92. In the years befo
 Milton Berle, the brash comedian who emerged from vaudeville, nightclubs, radio and films to become the first star of television, igniting a national craze for the new medium in the late 1940's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93. The uninhibited Mr. Berle almost s
 ABRAHAM-Jacob W. We mourn the passing of the Honourable Jacob W. Abraham, whose distinguished career was marked by wisdom, compassion, deep spirituality and love of the law. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to his loving wife Regina. We shall all miss him. Rest in peace, dear cousin. Ruth Rosenb
 HERBST-Joseph. It is with deep sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of Joseph Herbst and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Lois. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Frank D'Ambrosio, President Charles Baraf, Secretary       
 O'HERN-Philip E., CSP. On March 26, 2002 at age 95. He was born into a military family on August 6, 1902 in West Point, New York. Fr. O'Hern was ordained by his uncle Bishop John Francis O'Hern in Rochester, New York, on June 11, 1932. His assignments included Old Saint Mary's Cathedral in 
 SCHWARTZ-Bernard. A dear sweet man left us in an instant Sunday, March 24. Loving husband of Sally, adoring father of Steffi Hausfater (Jere) and Nancy Sperber, devoted grandfather of Matthew, Jonathan, Suzanne and Noah, and dear friend of his first wife, Bunnie Schwartz Moses. His humor, i
 WINTER-Leo, Jr. Born July 26, 1926. He was a medical officer for New York City Fire Department, rank of Deputy Chief Hon. and CEO of Leo Winter Associates. He published 65 scientific articles in an oral surgery textbook. He is survived by his devoted and loving wife, Josephine, and his lovi
 WITTENBERG-Fred. Died March 23, 2002, peacefully at his home in Fort Lauderdale of prostate cancer surrounded by his family. Devoted husband of Lee. Loving father of John and Beth, Jane and Michael. Adored grandfather of Daniel and Jeremy, Marissa, Sam & Rebecca. A man of great generosity, 
 Alfred H. Lane, a librarian who worked without pay for years just for the love of research and picked up enough pennies on the street to give hundreds of dollars a year to the needy, died on March 20 at St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Greenwich Vill
 Billy Wilder, the caustic writer and director who won six Academy Awards and international acclaim as one of the world's great filmmakers and then spent the last 21 years of his vivid life imploring Hollywood to let him make another movie, died on Wednesday night at his home in Beverly Hill
 BERLE-Milton. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Abbot Emeritus, Milton Berle. To the world he was Mr. Television, but to the Friars, he was a friend who touched our lives, not only with his comedy, but also through his per
 FEIGELSON-Charles I., M.D. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Charles I. Feigelson. Dr. Feigelson was a remarkable educator and a profound influence on his colleagues. As a Training and Supervising Analyst, he con
 FINGERHOOD-Stanford A. On March 28, 2002. Beloved husband of Nina. Devoted father of Steven and Michael, and father-in-law of Sheba. Proud grandfather of Olivia, Minna and Sarah. Loving brother of Marjorie Pfeffer and Shirley Fingerhood. Mentor and friend to many. He was dearly loved and we
 HERBST-Joseph. Beloved husband of Lois and the late Zelda, father of Diane Ruth and the late Daniel, grandfather of Colin and Larry Antinozzi, father-in-law of Sandy, stepfather of Jill CohenKolb and Sherry Cohen, brother of Betty, Ellen and the late Dave, Jack, Rose, Belle and Lillian. Fun
 MENCHER-Irving. Loving husband of the late Sylvia Mencher. Loving father of Jesse (Kathleen) and Eleanor. He was a supermarket proprietor, World War II veteran and a longtime member of the Riverdale Democratic Club.       
 PIKE-Timothy C. Died Wednesday, March 27, 2002 at Cabrini Hospice. He was a graduate of Manhattan College and New York University. He was a participating associate of Jaros, Baum & Bolles. He is survived by his parents Leroy and Nancy Pike, brothers William and David, and sister Dr. Anne Pi
 RUBINSTEIN-Ronald I., M.D., F.A.C.C., F.A.C.P., F.S.C.A.&I., F.C.C.P., F.A.H.A. 46 years old, of Ocean Township, died Wednesday, March 27th at Jersey Shore Medical Center. Dr. Rubinstein received his education at Texas Tech University School of Medicine in Lubbock, Texas. He did his Interna
 SAMPSON-Richard. Passed away unexpectedly on March 23. He leaves his loving aunt, Ruth Vitow Messias, Aunt Jeanette, Uncle Stan, nieces Alysa, Rana and Michelle, and great nephew Jonah. Services will take place Sunday, March 31 at 11am at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam
 SCHINDLER-Hans. On March 27, 2002, in his 90th year. Beloved husband of the late Marianne. Loving brother of William Schindler and cherished uncle of Erica Neumann. He will be missed by all his family and friends. Funeral services Monday, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 SCHUR-Alvin L. Born July 27, 1925, of St. Lucie West died, March 26, 2002 at Port St. Lucie Nursing Center. A native of Woodmere, New York, he lived in St. Lucie West for seven years. He moved here from Oceanside, New York. He loved the outdoors. He particularly enjoyed downhill skiing, dee
 SILVERSTEIN-Philip, D.D.S. Dearest husband of Pearl. Loving father of Robert and his wife Lyn & the late David & his wife Susan. Loving grandfather of Ashley. Brother of the late Abraham. A wonderful man who will be missed by all who knew him. Graveside services at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Pine
 STEWART-William. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear colleague, Bill Stewart, a noted linguist who was passionately interested in all aspects of language and a dedicated teacher devoted to his students. Frances Degen Horowitz President CUNY Graduate Center       
 THOMPSON-Joseph J. Of Rockville Centre, New York on March 23, 2002, in his 85th year. Beloved husband of Geraldine M. (Gerry) for sixty years. Loving father of Justin, Kevin, Dennis, Rory and Joanne. Beloved fatherin-law of Bonnie, Kathy, Ronnie, Pattie & Roger. Dear grandfather of fourteen
 VAIL-Donald of Bedford, NY, died on March 27, 2002 at the age of 80. Mr. Vail was born in Yonkers, NY, to John I.B. Vail and Margaret Gray Vail of Hyannis, MA., and Blairstown, NJ. A 1938 graduate of the Holderness School & the Class of 1942 at Princeton University, he entered the Navy in W
 WETZLER-Monte E. Of Essex, CT. and Manhattan, died March 27. He was the husband of Sally Elsas, father of Andrew, brother of Garrett and his wife Cynthia. His legacy shines through; his deeply held sense of integrity, his gentleness, the clarity of his mind and his natural grace in adversit
 CORDON-Jim. ''He has livedtherefore, he lives.'' Y.K. From your friends, your colleagues at NBC Radio and Television and Richard Giglio       
 Rafael A. Lafferty, a prolific science fiction writer best known for his short stories and his fresh, eccentric style, died on March 18 in Broken Arrow, Okla. He was 87. Mr. Lafferty, who wrote under the name R. A. Lafferty, had a strong, satirical style and pushed the limits of his
 Rod Rodgers, a modern-dance choreographer known for dances with an unforced, thoughtful physicality often motivated by social themes expressed with quiet passion, died on Sunday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, sai
 Thomas Flanagan, a professor who turned a flash of inspiration into a prize-winning historical novel of Ireland, then followed it with two more acclaimed books in the same vein, died on March 21 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his daught
 Astin Jacobo, a community advocate who played an important role in the renewal of his problem-ridden Bronx neighborhood, Crotona, died on March 20 in Manhattan. He was 73 and had lived in Crotona, in the central Bronx, since 1970. The cause was a heart infection, said Heidi Hynes, e
 Dause L. Bibby, an executive who spent more than 40 years in the emerging fields of electronics and technology, died March 14 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 90. The cause was complications after pneumonia, his son, Douglas, said. Mr. Bibby held posts at companies like Stromberg-
 BERLE-Milton. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Abbot Emeritus, Milton Berle. To the world he was Mr. Television, but to the Friars, he was a friend who touched our lives, not only with his comedy, but also through his per
 CORNELL-Frida, nee Adler. Of Cliffside Park, NJ, on March 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Ernest. Devoted mother of Alan. Loving grandmother of Michael and his wife, Kimberly, & Lauren. Cherished great-grandmother of Chloe. Service Sunday, 9:30 AM, ''Wien & Wien,'' Hackensack, NJ.       
 ERFER-Howard, 76. Of Manchester, NJ, passed away Wednesday, March 27th. Photographer, artist. He is survived by his wife Shirley; son David, and daughter Tina.       
 FEIGELSON-Charles, M.D. On March 24th. Age 71. A psychoanalyst known for his sensitivity to the emotional problems of children. He had been regarded as one of the most gifted psychoanalysts of his generation. Famous among his friends for his sunny ironic wit, his personal sweetness, and sup
 FINGERHOOD-Stanford A. On March 28, 2002. Beloved husband of Nina. Devoted father of Steven and Michael, and father-in-law of Sheba. Proud grandfather of Olivia, Minna and Sarah. Loving brother of Marjorie Pfeffer and Shirley Fingerhood. Mentor and friend to many. He was dearly loved and we
 MENCHER-Irving. Loving husband of the late Sylvia Mencher. Loving father of Jesse (Kathleen) and Eleanor. He was a supermarket proprietor, World War II veteran and a longtime member of the Riverdale Democratic Club.       
 RESNICK-Louis, 89. Of Ellenville, New York, died March 26 in Miami, FL. Louis founded Channel Master Corporation with his brothers Harry and Joe. The company started with the first pre-assembled antennas in the country, which grew into a giant industrial complex in his hometown of Ellenvill
 SCHINDLER-Hans. On March 27, 2002, in his 90th year. Beloved husband of the late Marianne. Loving brother of William Schindler and cherished uncle of Erica Neumann. He will be missed by all his family and friends. Funeral services Monday, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 STEINER-Lee N. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Lee N. Steiner. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Rosalind, his daughters, Terry, Nancy and Catherine, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, P
 VAIL-Donald of Bedford, NY, died on March 27, 2002 at the age of 80. Mr. Vail was born in Yonkers, NY, to John I.B. Vail and Margaret Gray Vail of Hyannis, MA., and Blairstown, NJ. A 1938 graduate of the Holderness School & the Class of 1942 at Princeton University, he entered the Navy in W
 WETZLER-Monte E. The members, attorneys and staff of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner LLP sadly record the loss of our esteemed former partner, Monte Wetzler. Monte's superb intellect, leadership, dedication, graciousness, warmth and dignity contributed immeasurably to the growth of
 Richard Bradford, a novelist of the Southwest who wrote ''Red Sky at Morning,'' died last Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Jacquita Jones, his companion of 10 years. Mr. Bradford was born in Chicago and brought up in New Orlea
 Richard Sylbert, a prolific and influential production designer who created the visual setting for dozens of films and won two Academy Awards for his work, died last Saturday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was cancer, s
 Dr. Merton Bernfield, a pediatrician and microbiologist whose research advanced knowledge of the human cell structure, died on March 18 in Boston, where he was previously chief of newborn medicine at Children's Hospital. He was 63. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease,
 BOYD-Richard F. Died on March 28, 2002, at the age of 82. Mr. Boyd was born in Bay Shore, NY, and resided in Islip, NY, for 57 years. He attended Columbia University and the Parsons School of Design before enlisting in the Army Air Corps during WWII. Mr. Boyd practiced architecture for 40 y
 BROWN-Kenneth Ridgeway, 77. On March 19, 2002 in Toronto, Canada. Born in Newcastle, England, graduated from the Durham School and University of London (engineering). Served in the Royal Navy during World War II on aircraft carrier HMS Battler in the North Atlantic. Immigrated to Canada in 
 BUTENSKY-Joseph, March 26, 2002 in Boca Raton, formerly of Commack. Beloved husband of Betty and devoted father of Susan, Ilene and Michael. Adored grandfather of four. Cherished friend of many. He will be greatly missed.       
 DAVIDOFF-Richard. Born December 30, 1929, in Baltimore, MD. Died March 26, 2002, of complications following a heart transplant. Richard was a management consultant and wine aficianado. He is survived by his wife Catherine, his sons Andrew, Steven and Jonathan, and by his brother Joseph and 
 DILLON-Thomas Francis, M.D. Died March 29, 2002, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of pneumonia and related complications of prostate cancer. He was 77. Born 1925, in Raquette Lake, NY. Graduated from Georgetown University, School of Medicine, in 1947. Served in the US Navy 1943-195
 FINGERHOOD-Stan. The Electronics Analysts Group mourns the passing of our longtime member, a fine analyst and great friend. FINGERHOOD-Stanford A. On March 28, 2002. Beloved husband of Nina. Devoted father of Steven and Michael, and father-in-law of Sheba. Proud grandfather of Olivi
 FRANK-Hans J. The Boards of Directors and staff of Selfhelp Community Services and United Help are deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed Board member, Hans J. Frank, Esq. As a dedicated advocate for the Nazi victim community, Mr. Frank generously brought his legal expertise and commit
 GILMAN-Dr. Arnold Robert. Died March 28, in Hume, VA, after a long illness. A Major in the Marine Air Corps with two sets of missions in the Pacific in WWII. A veterinarian who practiced in New Jersey and Virginia. Survived by his a wife Judy, two daughters Julie and Andrea, three grandchil
 GOLDBERG-Morton D., C.P.A. Passed away at home on March 26, 2002. He was a graduate of Pace University and was a Certified Public Accountant who practiced in New Jersey and New York. He will be remembered lovingly by his devoted wife Rose, son Allan and his wife Enid, granddaughter Elizabet
 GRABOIS-Jerome. On March 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Andrew and Gloria. Dear grandfather of Alexander. Loving brother of the late Bernard. Family will receive friends at the Chapel Sunday 79PM. Service Monday 12:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street at Amsterd
 KANFER-Herbert, CPA. On Tuesday, March 26, 2002. Adored husband and cherished best friend of Lillian. Beloved father of Ronni (Ted), doting & proud grandfather of David Isaac. Brother of Frances Packer. His strength, compassion, and wit will be sorely missed. Service on Sunday, 11:15 AM at 
 LEVIN-David K. Devoted husband to his late, beloved wife Dorothy. Loving and devoted father to his children Stuart (Pam), Kenneth and Wendy. Loving brother to his sister Sarah (Al),and loving uncle to all his nephews and nieces. A WWII veteran, a talented teacher (Lafayette High School), ar
 MENCHER-Irving. Loving husband of the late Sylvia Mencher. Loving father of Jesse (Kathleen) and Eleanor. He was a supermarket proprietor, World War II veteran and a longtime member of the Riverdale Democratic Club.       
 SCHINDLER-Hans. On March 27, 2002, in his 90th year. Beloved husband of the late Marianne. Loving brother of William Schindler and cherished uncle of Erica Neumann. He will be missed by all his family and friends. Funeral services Monday, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue 
 STEINER-Lee N. Died at his home in Scarsdale, NY, on March 28, in his 80th year. He leaves his wife Rosalind and three daughters, Terry and her husband Roger Smith, Catherine and her husband Fred Adair and Nancy and her husband Robert Fraiman Jr. He also leaves four grandchildren, Daniel an
 VAIL-Donald of Bedford, NY, died on March 27, 2002 at the age of 80. Mr. Vail was born in Yonkers, NY, to John I.B. Vail and Margaret Gray Vail of Hyannis, MA., and Blairstown, NJ. A 1938 graduate of the Holderness School & the Class of 1942 at Princeton University, he entered the Navy in W
 WETZLER-Monte E. Of Essex, CT and Manhattan, died March 27. He was the husband of Sally Elsas, father of Andrew, brother of Garrett. A reception will be Monday, April 1 from 3-5 PM at the Essex Yacht Club, 13 Novelty Lane, Essex, CT. Contributions may be made to Vanderbilt Shy-Drager Resear
 YOUNGER-Paul. 86 of Rye, NY, on March 29, 2002. Beloved husband of Gloria Younger of 55 years. Loving father of Marc and his wife Helen, Edward, Robert and his wife Robin. Adoring grandfather of David, Ellis, Meg, Rebecca and Abigail and devoted brother-in-law to Helen, Isabelle and Arnold.
 MYERS-Willis F. ''Jim'', 85. Died on January 17, 2002. Interment was private. He leaves his sister, Grace Myers Sachtleben, his niece Nancy Sachtleben Mitchell, both of Denver, CO and his nephew Alan Sachtleben of North Chatham, MA. Mr. Myers was a lifelong resident of the north New Jersey 
 ROSENBERG-Samuel R. New York State Supreme Court Judge, Washington Heights District Leader, community activist, husband of Sherry Levy Rosenberg, father of Ronald S. Rosenberg, Ted Rose, and Adrienne Jurmark, on March 3, 2001. We mourn the passing of our dearly beloved father and pray for h
 TOVELL-Harold M.M., MD, peacefully slept away in his Florida home last May. Born in Toronto, Canada, he received his medical degree at the University of Toronto. Later he completed a tour of duty in the Canadian Army Medical Corps. After moving to NYC in 1949 he spent five years in residenc
 Ralph Rumney, an English-born artist who romanced just about every eccentric left-wing intellectual movement he encountered over a half-century -- and helped start a few -- died on March 6 at his home in Manosque in the Provence region of France. He was 67. The cause was cancer, the
