 Jon Stone, the Emmy Award-winning writer, producer and director who helped create ''Sesame Street'' and such beloved characters as Cookie Monster, Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. His daughter Polly
 HENIN-Sam of Delray Beach, FL and North Hills, LI died peacefully Mon., March 31, 1997. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend. He will be missed by all those who knew and loved him. Graveside services private.       
 KLIEGMAN-Benjamin. March 26. We mourn the passing of a beloved brother-in-law, uncle, attorney and Shakespeare scholar who shared his passion for literature and music with us. We share our grief with his legions of dear friends and relatives all around the world. Ray, Robert and Judy Blum  
 RISKIN-Harry. Ohr Torah Institutions of Israel records with deep sorrow the passing of Harry Riskin, beloved father of our founder and Dean, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, Judi Stern and Myra Abraham. He lived his final years surrounded by the love and respect of children, grandchildren and great-gra
 ROTH-Murray. On March 30, 1997. Loving brother of Lou Roth and Evelyn Fishman. Uncle of Marvin, Fran, Nelson, Nancy and Judy Roth, Neal and Enid Fishman and Charles Goodstein and numerous grand and great nephews and nieces and friends. He set the standard for all of us to strive for. Former
 STEINBERG-David, passed away March 31, 1997 after a brief illness. He was the beloved husband of Lee Ohrbach Steinberg and devoted father of Linda Motelson and Ellen Greenfield. He was a cherished grandfather of Peter and Glenn Motelson and Mandy and Adam Greenfield. Mr. Steinberg was prede
 TICKER-Marvin W., of White Meadow Lake, New Jersey and Palm Beach Garden, FL., 72, at home Monday, March 31st after a courageous 12 year fight with melanoma. A trusted businessman, he was founder and President of Frances Yarn Corp. since 1954. Proud member of the Jewish War Veterans, he ser
 TULLMAN-Harold D., age 77, died Saturday March 29, 1997. A longtime resident of Boca Raton, Fla. Mr. Tullman was formerly of Hewlett, N.Y. He is survived by his devoted wife Irene, his loving children Jeffrey and Elaine; beloved daughter-in-law Hollace Jackson M.D. and son-in-law Peter Lust
 Cantor Samuel Rosenbaum, a Yiddish poet and composer and a founder and past president of the Cantors Assembly, died on March 23 in Rochester General Hospital. He was 77 and a resident of Rochester, where he served as cantor of Temple Beth El from 1946 until retiring 10 years ago. Th
 Ernest Goodman, a Detroit lawyer specializing in First Amendment and civil rights cases who served as president of the National Lawyers Guild, died last Wednesday at Harper Hospital in Detroit. He was 90. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Mr. Goodman practiced the law in 
 Lyman Spitzer Jr., a visionary theoretician of astrophysics and plasma physics who inspired the Hubble Space Telescope and an array of orbiting observatories now tracking X-ray emissions and assorted other heavenly phenomena, died on Monday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 82. 
 AKHTAR-M. Akbar, of Manhattan, died suddenly Sunday, March 30. He was a vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and an economist who was widely known and respected. A warm, kind man, he will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Condolences to his son Erik, who lives in Man
 BENEDICT-Mitchell M. Sr. MD, Veteran of 3 Wars, W.W. I, W.W. II & Korea. Dr. Mitchell M. Benedict of Stuart, Florida and Williamstown, MA., died on Saturday, March 29, 1997 at North Adams Regional Hospital, N.A., Mass. He had been a resident of Sweetbrook Nursing Home for the past five year
 KARFUNKEL-Louis. The administration, faculty, and students of Touro College record with sorrow the passing of the beloved father of Mr. Michael Karfunkel, a member of the Board of Trustees of the College, and chairman of the Flatbush Division Board of Directors, & his brother Mr. George Kar
 KLING-Arthur S., M.D. died on Friday, March 28 at his home in Los Angeles after a long illness. Dr. Kling was Chief of Psychiatry at the Sepulveda VA Medical Center and former Vice Chair of the Department of Psychiatry at UCLA School of Medicine. He was Professor of Psychiatry at Rutgers Me
 KRONETHAL-William. The associates and staff of the Stein-Knox Agency mourn the untimely loss of our dear colleague and friend. Bill was affiliated with our agency for nearly thirty years and during that time, he enriched our lives along with the lives of his many clients. We extend our hear
 O'BRIEN-Francis Joseph, 71, of Spring Lake, N.J., formerly of Bklyn, NY on April 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Ellin (nee Amorosi). Dear father of Dr. Francis J. of Manhattan, Paul E. of New Canaan, CT, Matthew L., Christopher J. of Spring Lake and beloved grandfather of two. He was a graduat
 RANZAL-Edward. The family of Edward Ranzal mourns his passing on April 1, 1997. He is survived by his two sons and their wives, Ted and Eleanor, and Gerry and Barbara, and his 4 grandchildren, Robin, Susan, Scott, and Stacey. He joins his wife Celia who passed away April 9, 1996. He was a n
 ROTH-Murray. We mourn the tragic and sudden loss of our beloved friend & mentor. He was everything a friend ever could be, true, devoted and loving. He stood by his friends and helped them navigate through the ups and downs of life. His words and sage advice will never die. Nor, will the re
 SEPTEE-Moe. On April 1, 1997. Of Philadelphia, PA. and Deal, N.J. Husband of Ruth Attermann. Father of Yael Septee Kane, Elisa Septee Lunzer, Rena Septee Goldstein. Brother of Esther Glyn and Shirley Levitan. Also survived by five loving grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to s
 STONE-Jon. The Board of Directors of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association (ALS) Greater New York Chapter is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and supporter Jon Stone, after a courageous battle with Lou Gehrig's disease. We send our heartfelt condolences to his daughters Pol
 Arthur Cunningham, a composer, pianist and conductor who combined classical forms and instrumentation with elements of rock and jazz, died on Monday at his home in Nyack, N.Y. He was 68. John Ellis, a former student of Mr. Cunningham's and a friend of the family, said the cause was 
 Edward Ranzal, a reporter at The New York Times for 45 years, from the mid-1930's until 1979, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Tamarack, Fla. He was 83 and had lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla., since his retirement. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Ranza
 Marvin Liebman, a militant conservative and anti-Communist who became active in promoting gay rights, died on Monday at George Washington Medical Center in Washington. He was 73. The cause was heart failure, said William F. Buckley Jr., the editor-at-large of the conservative journa
 DAVIS-Russell W. Age 36. Died peacefully in Seattle on March 31, after a brave struggle with aids. He is survived by his parents, Orrin and Katherine Davis of Corner Rock, Minnesota, nine siblings, his sweetheart Robert Pitre, a large circle of close friends and his dog Maurice. His beauty 
 FAWCETT-Howard N., of Briarcliff Manor, New York; April 1, 1997, age 86, preceded in death by his wife Anne R., father of James (Lynda); grandfather of Michael. Funeral service Saturday 10:30am, at Wint Funeral Home, Clarkston, MI. Memorials may be made to Constitution Marsh Sanctuary, Rt 9
 GOLDBERG-Lionel. The board of trustees, officers, and staff of Telicare commemorates with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed board member Lionel Goldberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Joyce and to his family and friends. Michael Pascucci, Chairman Rev. Msgr. Thomas J. Ha
 KARFUNKEL-Louis. The administration, faculty, and students of Touro College record with sorrow the passing of the beloved father of Mr. Michael Karfunkel, a member of the Board of Trustees of the College, and chairman of the Flatbush Division Board of Directors, & his brother Mr. George Kar
 KARP-Nathan L., age 86, of South Palm Beach, FL., formerly of New York City, died Wed., April 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara (Stern), loving father of Marion Benedek and Nancy Steiger. Devoted grandfather of Deborah Schnur, Elizabeth Newman, Sue Ellen Gerber, Michael Benedek, Elizabeth
 KIMBALL - Richard A. The Trustees, Fellows, Residents and staff of the American Academy in Rome mourn the death of Richard A. Kimball, esteemed Director, 1959-65. He and his late wife Josephine Dodge Kimball brought warm humanity, wisdom and buoyant spirit to the Academy community and made 
 MANGLANI-Bhanu. God's good man. Loving husband of Sunita, devoted father of Naveen, Meeta and Kishen, affectionate brother of Manu, Hiro, Kanaya, Hari, Jamuna and late Gordhandas and dear friend of so many. Funeral services will be held on Friday, April 4, 10:30 AM at Schwartz Brothers/Jeff
 O'BRIEN-Francis Joseph, 71, of Spring Lake, N.J., formerly of Bklyn, NY on April 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Ellin (nee Amorosi). Dear father of Dr. Francis J. of Manhattan, Paul E. of New Canaan, CT, Matthew L. and Christopher J. of Spring Lake and beloved grandfather of two. He was a grad
 ROTH-Murray. March 30, 1997. We mourn the tragic and sudden loss of our beloved friend & mentor. He was everything a friend ever could be, true, devoted and loving. He stood by his friends and helped them navigate through the ups and downs of life. His words and sage advice will never die. 
 SAVAD-Louis. Our sincere condolences to the family of our wonderful friend Lou. His loving kindness, caring and professionalism, will never be forgotten. May you rest in peace. Network For Graphics, Inc.       
 SCHUHMANN-Frederick J., age 69, died April 1st. Mr. Schuhmann served in the U.S. Army during World War Two in the Philippine Islands. He started his career at ABC Television in 1949 as a part time page in a live theater while attending St. Francis College in Brooklyn, New York. He was named
 SMIALY-Szloma. Holocaust survivor. Beloved husband of Hena. Cherished father of Sylvia (Tzipy) and David Posner. Adoring Zayde of Rachel and Raphael. Loving uncle. Services will be held on Thursday, April 3, at 1 PM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. Contributions may be made: the 
 TONTI-Joseph D., cabaret performer and personal trainer, on 3/26/ 97 of AIDS. He was also a volunteer for Body Positive, an HIV+ oriented organizaton. He contributed numerous articles to their publication as well as having served as an HIV+ interviewee for The New York Times. He is survived
 Howard Francis Shattuck Jr., a retired international counsel for the Mobil Oil Corporation who led a study of United Nations peacekeeping operations for the American Bar Association, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 76 and also had a residence in Dar
 KARFUNKEL-Louis. The American Friends of Sanz Medical Center/Laniado Hospital express deep sorrow on the passing of Reb Yisroel Yehuda Karfunkel O.B.M., illustrious Talmudic lecturer and author, who personified the blessed combination of Torah and Gedula. Our heartfelt condolences to his wi
 KOCHWA - Shaul, PhD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mt. Sinai Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Shaul Kochwa, PhD, Professor of Medicine Emeritus. Associated with the Division of Hematology for morethan four decades, Dr. Kochwa was a renowned in
 MANNES-Michael L. On April 2, 1997. Age 54. Founder and President of the Mannes Production Group. Noted film director, lighting designer, & writer whose award winning work included the Barbara Walters Specials, Sesame Street, PBS, numerous television commercials. Member, Directors Guild of 
 O'BRIEN-Reverend Monsignor Edward M. on April 3, 1997. Pastor of Guardian Angel RC Church, NYC. Former Director of Holy Name Centre for Homeless Men and former pastor of Loreto RC Church NY. Devoted son of the late Patrick and Annie (Gibbon O'Brien), loving brother of Joesph P., Margaret M.
 O'NEILL-Joseph H., of Scarsdale, New York, on April 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Barbara Williamson O'Neill. Father of William, Thomas, Joseph and Nancy. Brother of Howard P. O'Neill. Friends may call at The Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, today, 2-4PM and 7-9PM. Funer
 ROTH-Murray. March 30, 1997. We mourn the tragic and sudden loss of our beloved friend & mentor. He was everything a friend ever could be, true, devoted and loving. He stood by his friends and helped them navigate through the ups and downs of life. His words and sage advice will never die. 
 STEIN-Max K., 89, passed away quietly on April 3 in Atlanta. Formerly of Hempstead, NY. He is survived by his wife Mathilda, children Judith and Kenneth, grandchildren Richard, Andrew, Jason and Todd and former daughter-in-law Ellen. Funeral services today April 4, in Atlanta, GA. Contribut
 STRAUS-Alfred. The Board of Governors and Membership of Ridgeway Country Club offers their deepest condolences to the family of Alfred Straus upon his passing. Stanley Goldberg, President       
 Tomoyuki Tanaka, who frightened and fascinated generations of children with his series of films featuring an outsize, outdated creature named Godzilla, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86. Mr. Tanaka was a prolific film producer with a serious edge and a flair for the ex
 Dr. Albert E. Manley, who in 23 years as its president guided Spelman College to becoming a highly ranked institution for career-minded women, died on March 28 at his vacation home in Montego Bay, Jamaica. He was 89. Dr. Manley had lived in Washington with his wife, Dr. Audrey Forbe
 Joseph F. Sullivan, a former New Jersey bureau chief for The New York Times and a political reporter who covered the administrations of seven New Jersey governors, died yesterday at University Hospital in Newark. Mr. Sullivan, who was 66 and lived in Wall Township, suffered a heart 
 BARLOW-Carl M., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital mourn the loss of Carl M. Barlow, M.D., an Honorary Attending Physician in our Plastic Surgery Section. Dr. Barlow, who joined the hospital's medical staff in 1961, was a skilled plastic surgeon and a dedica
 GALPEER-Irving J., 87, of Harwich, MA. formerly of Hartsdale, NY and New York City. Beloved husband of Lillian ''Nicki'' (Jaffin) Galpeer. Devoted father of Nina Galpeer Danielson of Harwich, MA and Carla Galpeer Horton of Santa Monica, and the late Moss Andrew Galpeer. Loving brother of Mi
 KAGAN-Shlomo. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the untimely passing of our beloved member Shlomo Kagan and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Naomi and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Dr. Philip Ad
 KATZ-Irving Danny. On April 3rd in New York. Our family lost its beloved patriarch. His friends lost their first officer. He brightened the lives of all he touched with his kindness and generosity. His independent spirit will live on in all of us. Sleep tight, Big D. Friends may call at Fra
 MILLER-David C. The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship mourns the loss of a cherished friend and former Board member. Dr. Miller's lifelong embodiment of Albert Schweitzer's ethic of Reverence for Life and his own insistence that ''My life is my argument'' provide an example that continues to ins
 SILVERSTEIN-Paul, on April 4, 1997, in his 87th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Cherished brother-in-law of Joyce. Loving uncle of Gail, Lila, Janice, Francine, William, Jonah and Isaac. Services Sunday, 12:15 PM, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be s
 LISKIN-Elliot Ten years, eight months. April 5, 1997. On this his birthday...and every day...always loved, always remembered, ''and the memories linger on.'' Children, Grandchildren and Joyce       
 Dr. A. John Gwinnett, a professor of oral biology and pathology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on March 16 in Orlando, Fla. He was 60 and lived in Setauket, L.I. He suffered a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Gwinnett was in Orlando for a meeting 
 Allen Ginsberg, the poet laureate of the Beat Generation whose ''Howl!'' became a manifesto for the sexual revolution and a cause celebre for free speech in the 1950's, eventually earning its author a place in America's literary pantheon, died early yesterday. He was 70 and lived in the Eas
 Donald E. Maude, chief economist of the United States unit of Scotia Capital Markets in Toronto and a former senior economist for Merrill Lynch, died on March 27 at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 55. The cause of his death was a heart attack, his wife, Kathleen Gustos Maude of S
 Dr. Irving Wexler, a pediatrician and researcher who in the 1940's pioneered the use of blood exchange transfusions as a treatment for infants born with severe jaundice and anemia as a result of blood group incompatibility with their mothers, died on Saturday in Westwood, Mass. He was 86.  
 Marvin A. Schneiderman, a specialist in health statistics and a retired associate director for science and public policy at the National Cancer Institute, died on Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 78. The cause was coronary artery disease, said his wife, Irene. Dr.
 ALLEN-Vance B., photographer and publicity director, Wednesday, March 26th, 1997, of respiratory failure. Mr. Allen's photographs were shown in the Metropolitan Musuem of Art, The Schomberg Center for Research in Black Culture, The Studio Museum of Harlem, and the San Francisco Museum of Ar
 DUBIN-Wilbert B., April 2, 1997, of Wynnewood, PA. Husband of Louisa Cooper Dubin. Father of Derek L., Dreux Claiden, Drake L., Charles S. Brown, Jr. and Loulie Brown; grandfather of Jacqueline S.L. and Frances S.C. Claiden, and Piers S. Dubin. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, April 8, 3 P
 FETTERMAN-Ruth. The Partners and staff of Loeb & Troper are saddened to learn of the loss of Ruth Fetterman, mother of our esteemed partner Allen L. Fetterman. We extend condolences to Allen, his father Max, his sister Judi and the entire family. May they remember the warm memories of her l
 GALPEER-Irving J., 87, of Harwich, MA. formerly of Hartsdale, NY and New York City. Beloved husband of Lillian ''Nicki'' (Jaffin) Galpeer. Devoted father of Nina Galpeer Danielson of Harwich, MA and Carla Galpeer Horton of Santa Monica, and the late Moss Andrew Galpeer. Loving brother of Mi
 LANSING-Richard. On March 29, 1997, at home. He leaves his third wife, Elizabeth Alston Lansing, 20 nieces and nephews and their children. Born in Rochester, NY on May 23, 1916, Richard is remembered for his incisive mind and wicked sense of humor. With his loden cape and great imagination,
 LEVINE-Jerome. Age 78. Died April 3, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Gladys. Devoted father of Phyllis and Charlie Ochs, Martin and Lois Levine, Lois and Mitchell Cohen, Cheryl and Ronnie Portnoy. Loving grandfather and great grandfather and loving companion of Marcia Levine. He will be s
 PARSLY-Lawrence. Died peacefully on April 4, 1997. Loving husband of 55 years to Beverly, adored father of Joan and Michael Sherman and Gail and Robert Parsly, cherished by grandchildren Hope and Richard Sherman and David and Lauren Parsly. Also survived by sister Ruth Robinowitz and brothe
 PRECHTL-Clement. Age 84, died March 30, 1997. Born in CT, lived in NY and Chicago, then retired to Fort Lauderdale 20 years ago. Veteran of WW II, Lieutenant in Military Intelligence, served in European and North African theaters. Graduated from NYU with a degree in chemical engineering. Hi
 ROTH-Murray. March 30, 1997. We mourn the tragic and sudden loss of our beloved friend & mentor. He was everything a friend ever could be, true, devoted and loving. He stood by his friends and helped them navigate through the ups and downs of life. His words and sage advice will never die. 
 SILVERSTEIN-Paul, on April 4, 1997, in his 87th year. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Cherished brother-in-law of Joyce. Loving uncle of Gail, Lila, Janice, Francine, William, Jonah and Isaac. Services Sunday, 12:15 PM, ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be s
 STONE-Jon. We believe there is no child in America who has not been enriched by the genius of our colleague, mentor and friend, Jon Stone, one of the original creators of Sesame Street. For twenty-nine years, his contribution to the enhancement of children's lives has been felt around the w
 TROSTORFF-Peter W. Of Littleton, CO., formerly of NYC, on March 30, 1997. Born in Breslau, Germany in 1919. Son of the late Fritz Trostorff, Wagnerian ''Heldentenor'' of the Breslau Opera and Margot (nee Friedlaender), beloved husband of Cecilia (nee Rott). Construction engineer with Turner
 LISKIN-Elliot Ten years, eight months. April 5, 1997. On this his birthday...and every day...always loved, always remembered, ''and the memories linger on.'' Children, Grandchildren and Joyce       
 Sylvester Campbell, a dancer who performed with the Dutch National Ballet and other troupes in Europe, Canada and the United States, died on March 9 at the Genesis-Eldercare Randallstown Center in Baltimore. The cause was respiratory failure, said Peggy Lynne, a friend. Mr. 
 August Heckscher, a Parks Commissioner under Mayor John V. Lindsay who was long active in public affairs and as a writer, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, which he suffered after being admitt
 Heberto Castillo Martinez, a civil engineer, an advocate of workers' rights and an opposition politician who helped pioneer the movement to make Mexico a modern democracy, died here on Saturday. He was 68. Mr. Castillo died of heart failure, according to a statement from the Party o
 Jack Kent Cooke, who started his career peddling encyclopedias in Canada and went on to build empires in newspapers, cable television and sports and to own the Los Angeles Lakers, the Washington Redskins and the Chrysler Building, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in W
 COOPER-Robert. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Eileen Putterman, President       
 DALEY-Joseph C. Of Rumson, NJ, on April 5, 1997. Husband of Edwina (nee Young) Daley. Father of Dr. Brian J., Joseph C., Jr., Bernard C. Daley and Dr. Margaretmary Daley. Brother of Mary Daley Curran. Grandfather of six. Visitation today, Monday, 24 and 7-9 PM, at the John E. Day Funeral Ho
 DUBIN-Wilbert B., April 2, 1997, of Wynnewood, PA. Husband of Louisa Cooper Dubin. Father of Derek L., Dreux Claiden, Drake L., Charles S. Brown, Jr. and Loulie Brown; grandfather of Jacqueline S.L. and Frances S.C. Claiden, and Piers S. Dubin. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, April 8, 3 P
 FISH-Steven Roy, age 45, passed away March 10, 1997, of heart failure in NYC where he had been a resident since 1974. Born September 26, 1951, in Heidelberg, Germany, where his father was a Colonel in the U.S. Army, Steven graduated from Craig High School, Janesville, WI, June, 1969; receiv
 GAULL-Gerald E., M.D. Of Washington, DC. On April 2, while on vacation in Quito, Ecuador. Scientist, educator, pediatrician and founding director of Georgetown Center for Food and Nutrition Policy, Georgetown University. During a four decade scientific career, Dr. Gaull made ground-breaking
 GINSBERG-Allen. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and esteemed gallery artist. His passionate and precise photographs will live on as another significant facet of his life in art. Our condolences to Allen's family and friends. Andrew H. Arnot, Eric Brown Tibor de Nagy Gallery
 HARDING-Errol Nicholson, M.D., died on Sunday, March 2, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida of complications of Parkinson's disease. Born on July 8, 1920 in Montreal to Dorothy Walcot Nicholson and Jay Wentworth Harding. He obtained a B.A. degree from McGill University. After serving as a Lieute
 KIMLESS-Kiki. We mourn the loss of a caring, kind, loving, sincere man who made life better for those around him. He taught us the meaning of ''friend.'' Bonny and Bob       
 LENTCHNER-Dr. Emil. On Saturday, April 5, 1997. Dr. Emil Lentchner of Silver Spring, MD, beloved huband of Florence Lentchner, devoted father of Lauri Joseph and Lawrence Lentchner, loving grandfather of Michael, Stephanie, Cassandra, Jesse, Caleb and Anne, great-grandfather of Jonathan, Am
 Henry Baldwin Hyde, a New York lawyer and onetime American spymaster who helped pave the way for the Allied landings in France, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 82. He suffered a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Hyde was a crucial
 BEEBE-Joseph. Died April 6, 1997, aged 87. Preceded in death by his devoted wife, Mollie. Loving father of Elizabeth Beebe Doppelt of Glencoe, IL and Col. Henry Beebe of Washington, DC. Grandfather of David and Marc Beebe, and Rachel and Adam Doppelt, and great-grandfather of Kevin and Matt
 BREWER-Orlando Swift. Age 99, died at his home in Brookline, VT on March 12th. He retired as Senior Partner in Phelps, Fenn & Co. in 1963, having joined the firm in 1922. He is survived by his daughter, Prudence Read, his son, James E. Brewer, 6 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.   
 COOPER-Sol, of Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Ethel. Loving father of Alan Cooper and Martha Marsh (Joseph). Adored grandfather of Marc, Pamela, Stephen, Laura, Andrew, Gregory and 3 great grandhildren Daniel, Matthew and Michael. Services will be held at 1 PM, Menorah Chapel, Nort
 COWL-Carl. He was born in Duluth, Minnesota June 25, 1902. He died in Brooklyn, NY April 3, 1997. Ethnomusicologist, Social and Literary Scholar, Teacher, Mentor, loving father, loyal and trusted friend. We will miss him. His Sons, Carl and John       
 DAVIS-Judge Harry W. Husband of Theresa H. and father of Michael Philip. The family of Judge Davis wishes to inform friends and colleagues of his death on April 6, 1997, in Elizaville, NY. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service will take place in New York City later this sprin
 DOVER-Pliny Giles, of Millburn, NJ, on April 4, 1997. A retired transportation engineer, he was the New Jersey Turnpike's original Engineer of Design from its inception in 1949 through its opening and first five yars of operation and expansion. He was instrumental in developing the geometri
 GAULL-Gerald E., M.D. Of Washington, DC. On April 2, while on vacation in Quito, Ecuador. Scientist, educator, pediatrician and founding director of Georgetown Center for Food and Nutrition Policy, Georgetown University. During a four decade scientific career, Dr. Gaull made ground-breaking
 GINSBERG-Allen. The Brooklyn College community deeply mourns the passing of Distinguished Professor of English Allen Ginsberg. His 18 years of teaching and service wil be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College GINSBERG-Allen. The members of the American Academ
 GREEN-Bertha. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Israel extend deepest condolences to the immediate Past Chairman of the Global Board of Trustees, Dr. Morris L. Green, his wife, Charlotte, and the entire family on the passing of his mother, Bertha Green. Morris and Charlotte sup
 HARMAN-Donn E. On Friday, April 4, 1997 after a long illness. Born January 27, 1917 the son of Henry Harman and Beth Soper Harman in Summit, New Jersey. In the early '50's he wrote plays and television shows with George Batson. He join the Katz Agency in the early '50's and became Financial
 HECKSCHER-August. Was a valiant and inspirational member of the New School community, serving with great devotion for 41 years as a Trustee and Life Trustee, as Chair of the Board of Trustees, Chair of the Board of Governors of Parsons School of Design, and member of the Board of Governors 
 HYDE-Henry B. On April 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Liza, father of Lorna de Wangen and Isabel Jasinowski, stepfather of Anastasia Piper and Kelly Piper, grandfather of Stephanie de Wangen and Anne-Marie and Paul-Henry Jasinowski and step-grandfather of Nicholas Locker and William and Belle 
 KING-Harry, age 73. Died April 1, 1997. Beloved husband of Helen, devoted and cherished father of Jeff and Lori, father-in-law of Lise and Naim, and loving and revered grandfather of Lindsay, Shanon, Amanda, Jackie and Rebecca. A pioneer in the field of catalogue production, our Harry will 
 KLOR-William, 83, After a gallant and determined struggle with cancer and heart disease. Dedicated husband, father and grandfather. Adored by his wife Mildred, his daughters Nora Drummond and Robin Klor and his grandsons Joshua and Wyeth. Hard worker, avid sailor and consumate boat builder.
 LANE-Henry Edwin. In his 91st year. Died peacefully in West Palm Beach where he had lived for over twenty years. A native of New York City. He was a professional fund raiser for Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and upon retirement dedicated himself to voluteering, both in the school syst
 ROSEN-Herbert S. On Sunday, April 6, a month after the death of his wife of 58 years, Shirley. He was a devoted husband, beloved and loving father of David Rosen and Jane Barowitz. Father-in-law of Barbara Goren and Elliott Barowitz and perceptive and indulgent grandfather of Zack and Jorda
 SIEBZEHNER-Hirsch, D.M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumnni records with sorrow the passing of their longtime colleague and friend. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Albert M. Lefkovits, M.D., Pres. Alisan B. Goldfarb, M.D., Secy.       
 SINGH-Sina. Born May 1, 1955, died April 5, 1997. Raised in India, lived in NYC since 1975. Cherished son of Ram and Nancy Singh. Beloved brother of Mike and Raj. Loving brother-in-law of Joanna, uncle of Jacob and Kiva. A magical artist of brilliance and grace. He lived for painting, music
 TUITE-William E. of Stuart, Florida and Southhold, Long Island died on Sunday April 6, 1997 at his home in Stuart after a long illness. He was born on August 21, 1923 and was graduated from Regis High School in 1941. Mr. Tuite served as a First Lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force during World 
 WELTZ-Nathan, of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Else Auerbacher; father of Susan and David. Cherished brother of Naftali Bezem and the late Moshe Bezem. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Daniel. Founder and president of American Portfolio, Inc. His travels carried him into the lives of m
 ZANER-Aaron. Died peacefully on April 3, 1997 at the age of 99. A loving, generous husband, father, grandfather and friend. He lived a long, productive life. A life of integrity, dignity and honor. Respected and admired by all. Family and friends will gather for burial Sunday, April 13, 11 
 Travis Bogard, an author, teacher and one of the foremost scholars on the life and work of Eugene O'Neill, died on Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was a stroke, said Betty Connors, a friend. Mr. Bogard, who for many years
 Gino P. Santi, a Brooklyn-born Air Force engineer who developed the modern pilot ejection system, died on Thursday at a hospice near his home in Dayton, Ohio. He was 81 and had spent most of his career at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base there. His wife, Dorothy, said the cause was b
 Lawrence A. Appley, a Methodist minister's son who served on the boards of 35 corporations and for almost 45 years preached the gospel of quality management in corporate life and Government service, died on  Friday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was two weeks short of his 93d birthday.   
 ARMSTRONG - John Kremer. Died of heart attack on April 5, 1997 at his home in Lawrence Park West, Bronxville, New York. He is survived by his wife, Mieke, his children Marca and Jeb, his brother Alan Armstrong and by his future son-in law Kevin Ewy. He was a partner at the New York law firm
 BEINBRINK-Jeffrey R., Captain USN retired, age 51, son of Shirley and Robert Beinbrink of Manhasset, NY passed away on March 27, 1997. A graduate of Annapolis, he was Commanding Officer of the fleet Training Center in San Diego. He is survived by his wife Barbara, sons Will and Andrew of Sa
 BRADENBAUGH-Baker A., age 77, died on Tuesday, April 8, 1997. He had been a winter resident of Naples for eighteen years. His home is in New Milford, CT. Mr. Bradenbaugh attended Shadyside Academy in Pittsburgh, PA. He graduated from Princeton University, class of '41. He was a Navy Carrier
 COOPER - Sol. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Sol Cooper, on April 7, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held in Florida on April 8. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean J
 CORTEGGIANO - Joseph. Died April 7, 1997. Robert Lombardo Associates mourns the loss of our friend and client Joseph Corteggiano. Long associated with New York City Opera and many other American opera companies and orchestras, we will miss his zeal for performing, his marvelous sense of hum
 GAGE-Edwin ''Peter'', realtor, passed away at Mary Manning Walsh Home in New York City on April 7, 1997 after a long illness. Husband of Suzanne Reade Gage. Father of Linda O'Connor and Thomas Gage and beloved ''Pop'' of Andrew, Jessica, Peter and Laura. Contributions may be made to the Mon
 GAULL-Gerald E., M.D. Of Washington, DC. On April 2, while on vacation in Quito, Ecuador. Scientist, educator, pediatrician and founding director of Georgetown Center for Food and Nutrition Policy, Georgetown University. During a four decade scientific career, Dr. Gaull made ground-breaking
 GINSBERG-Allen. The Jewel Heart community notes with heartfelt sorrow the passing of their great friend and board member. His lifelong generosity and profound compassion will continue to inspire all those who knew him. Gelek Rinpoche, Spiritual Director, On Behalf of Jewel Heart       
 GREEN-Bertha K. We mourn the passing of the mother of Morris L. Green, who along with his beloved wife Charlotte, were of the original founders of the new Shaare Zedek Medical Center. The tradition of tzedaka and chesed faithfully fulfilled by Morris is a legacy of a mother who imbued her s
 HYDE-Henry B. On April 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Liza, father of Lorna de Wangen and Isabel Jasinowski, stepfather of Anastasia Piper and Kelly Piper, grandfather of Stephanie de Wangen and Anne-Marie and Paul-Henry Jasinowski and step-grandfather of Nicholas Locker and William and Belle 
 KLEIN-Arthur L. Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester deeply mourns the passing of Dr. Arthur Luce Klein. A wise, generous and courageous man, Dr. Klein graced the Medical Center with his presence and support. We who were privileged to know him will always treasure the memories of his k
 MESKIN-Edward, of New York City. Died April 8, 1997. Husband of Ruth. Father of Stephen, Jacob and Benjamin. Brother of Freda Oster. Grandfather of Aaron and Sarah. Friend of all he met. A gentle person but a tenacious fighter for labor and all humanity. Memorial service will be held on Sun
 O'CONNOR-Ray. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Ray O'Connor, colleague, friend and talented writer whose lifelong devotion to human rights and intergroup relations skills enhanced ADL's development public relations efforts for fifteen years from 1964 to 1979. We extend our h
 RESNICOW-Herbert. It is with deep sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of HIAS note the untimely passing of Herbert Resnicow, the father of our treasurer, Norman Resnicow. To Norman and his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Norman D. Tilles, President Martin A. 
 SLOANE-Howard G. Devoted husband of Virginia Sloane, loving father of Gail Meyers, (son-in-law, Andy Hall) and Peter Sloane (daughter in law Jaar-mel Sloane) and proud grandfather of Hillary, Katie, Nessia, Alexander and Jake, and of great grandson Zachary. We will miss you so very much.   
 STERN-Israel. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dedicated longtime friend and leader, the dynamic and inspiring founder of the Upstate New York Friends of YU who, with his beloved wife, Pearl, was a YU Guardian; father of Jules (and Lila) Stern; and brother of Bessie (an
 WOLF-Rev. Matthias J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the former member of Cathedral College Faculty, Douglaston, on April 7. Reposing in Stutzmann Funeral Home, 22439 Jamaica Ave, Queens Village, Wednesday, April 9, 2-5 PM. Mass of Transferral Wed., 7:30 P.M., in Immaculate 
 COHEN-Irving S. May 6, 1928 to April 9, 1996. A very sad year has passed. Disbelief and pain still burn in our hearts. Dreams and plans forever scattered. God sent you to us and you brought love, beauty, laughter into our lives. He's called you home now. I'm glad He loaned you to us and we 
 Alejo Peralta Diaz, a pioneering figure in Mexico's industrial development who became a confidant of presidents and one of the country's wealthiest entrepreneurs, died here on Tuesday of heart failure. He was 80. Mr. Peralta had undergone heart surgery four times since 1992, and was
 Gerald Edward Gaull, a pediatrician whose research on the development of the human brain prompted the addition to baby formulas of a vital ingredient of mother's milk, died April 2 while vacationing in Quito, Ecuador. He was 66 and lived in Washington. The cause was an aortic aneury
 Joaquin M. Luttinger, a solid-state physicist who put his mathematical imagination to work on the behavior of electrons, devising theories that have advanced the knowledge of semiconductors and superconductors, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in Morningside
 BRITTON-A. Dudley. Jr., 92. On April 1, 1997 of complications from a tennis court broken hip. Devoted husband of the late Carroll Scarborough Britton and the late Helen Ingram Britton, he is survived by his sister, Edna, of New York and son, Peter of Pleasantville, New York. He was a former
 CORTEGGIANO - Joseph. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our good friend & colleague, Joe Corteggiano. After joining the City Opera in 1990 he sang in many of our productions, including several major premieres. He became a valued member of the company and a good friend. We'll miss hi
 CURLEY-John F. Sr, of Ardsley on Hudson, NY, died April 8, 1997, age 84 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Anne, daughter Marilyn Heavener of Gaithersburg, MD, son John F. Curley, Jr., of Baltimore, MD, 4 grandchildren and a great grandchild. Retired partner, Paine Webber Jackson & 
 GAGE-Edwin ''Peter'', realtor, passed away at Mary Manning Walsh Home in New York City on April 7, 1997 after a long illness. Husband of Suzanne Reade Gage. Father of Linda O'Connor (Timothy) and Thomas Gage (Teri) and beloved ''Pop'' of Andrew, Jessica, Peter and Laura, brother of Alan Gag
 HECKSCHER-August. The Grolier Club of New York mourns the passing of our fellow member and accomplished bookman, August Heckscher. A member of the Club since 1965, he served on the Club's Council and chaired its Modern Fine Printing Committee. As proprietor of the High Loft Press, he demons
 KARSTEN-Charles Christopher. Suddenly at his home in Williamson, NY on Apr. 5. Survived by his wife, Laila Farevaag; his children, Rebecca and Charles Karsten; his parents, Rev. and Mrs. Charles Karsten of ME., and his sister, Wendy Karsten Beck of VA. Chris was born on Apr. 9, 1952. He gre
 LANDA-William R., 77, of Culpeper, died on Tuesday, April 8, 1997 at Culpeper Memorial Hospital. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM on Monday, April 14, at Found & Sons Chapel, Culpeper, VA, with Dr. R. Wayne Bernardo officiating. Interment will follow in Fairview Cemtery. Memorial co
 PRICEMAN-Oliver M. Beloved son of Mark & Alla of Larchmont, NY. Brother of Eric, brother-in-law of Kathleen and uncle of Zachary, Mark and Kristina, all of Oak Park, IL., & nephew of Hedda Prejsman of Tel Aviv, Israel. Died tragically in Larchmont, New York, on April 6. He carried a burden 
 SINGER-Herbert, on April 9, 1997. Beloved husband of Leona, loving father of Ellen and Gordon, Connie and Richard, most loving grandfather of Rod, Cliff, Brad, Pam and Keith. Loving brother of Charlotte Rose. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av at 81 St, Thursday April 10, 7
 SLOANE-Howard G. Devoted husband of Virginia Sloane, loving father of Gail Meyers, (son-in-law, Andy Hall) and Peter Sloane (daughter-in-law Jaar-mel Sloane) and proud grandfather of Hillary, Katie, Nessia, Alexander and Jake, and of great grandson Zachary. We will miss you so very much.   
 STERN-Israel. Community Synagogue of Monsey mourns the passing of a dear friend, past President and Chairman, Board of Governors. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Pearl, and his entire family. Dr. Moshe D. Tendler, Rabbi Dr. David L. Koplon, President       
 WALDMAN-Lester J. On April 8, 1997. Adored husband of Blanche. Loving father of Michael and daughter-in-law Rebecca. Devoted uncle of Stuart and Tomi Berney. Friends may call Thurs. evening, 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Services Friday, April 11, 10AM, at Temple
 WIENER-Gabe. On April 9, 1997. Beloved son of Michael and Zena Wiener, cherished brother of Jenny, suddenly taken away at the tender age of 27. His wonderful, indomitable spirit and gift for life made this world a better place. His passions have deeply touched our lives and his talent and v
 WIENER-George. Died peacefully April 8, 1997, in Encino, California. Born in New York City February 25, 1901, he was 96 years old and lived through every decade of this century. He was a music publisher, a Brill building original and one of the colorful music men who made up the Tin Pan All
 SIMOR-George. Died suddenly on July 3, 1996, on Nantucket Island. Medievalist, librarian & archivist. Librarian at Columbia University (1963-64), Rare Book Librarian at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri (1964-66), Head of Rare Book Cataloging and Bibliography in the Research Libr
 Evsey D. Domar, a leading theorist of economic growth and expert on comparative economic systems, died April 1 at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass., where he had lived for many years. He was 82. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disorder, said his wife, Carola R. Domar.  
 John Kremer Armstrong, a New York lawyer specializing in health and intellectual-property law, died on Saturday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Armstrong started with the law firm of Davis, Hardy & Schenck in 1960
 ARMSTRONG - John K. The Governors, medical staff and administration of Lawrence Hospital are deeply saddened by the death of our Legal Counsel, John K. Armstrong. He was a trusted advisor and friend of the Hospital. His sound guidance and intelligence, combined with his understanding and co
 CONATY-Arthur. The President of Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are profoundly saddened by the passing of Arthur Conaty, dear father of our esteemed colleague, Mr. Robert B. Conaty, executive vicepresident of operations. A giving man, devoted to his family and deeply com
 CURLEY-John F. Sr, of Ardsley on Hudson, NY, died April 8, 1997, age 84 after a long illness. Survived by his wife Anne, daughter Marilyn Heavener of Gaithersburg, MD, son John F. Curley, Jr., of Baltimore, MD, 4 grandchildren and a great grandchild. Retired partner, Paine Webber Jackson & 
 GAGE-Edwin ''Peter.'' The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the passing of long time friend and member, Edwin Peter Gage. He was a friend to the community and will be missed. Andrew Arno, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary       
 GANNET-Seymour, on Wednesday, April 9, 1997. Seymour Gannet of Florham Park, formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Beloved husband of Gladys (Nee Wenderoff). Devoted father of Todd and Dean Gannet, dear brother of Herbert Gannet and Mitzie Landsberg, loving grandfather of 7 grandchildren. He was a ver
 GIBBONS-Patrick Joseph, Jr. Age 79, of Summit, NJ. Suddenly on April 8, 1997, in Captiva, Florida. Beloved husband of 50 years of Marie C. Gibbons. Loving father of Christine G. McKay and Patrick Joseph Gibbons III and father-inlaw of Joseph Kevin McKay and Jessica R. Gibbons. Devoted grand
 KAYE-Martin B., 77, of Lauderhill, FL, formerly of Merrick, NY, died on Tuesday, April 8, 1997. Beloved husband, brother, father and grandfather, he is survived by his wife Dorothy Rubens Kaye; his sons and daughters-in-law, Larry & Joan Kaye of N.Y.C. and Danny Kaye and Roseanne Patrissi o
 LIEBERMAN-Dr. Joseph D. The Hebrew University and American Friends of the Hebrew University are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend. A Benefactor of The Hebrew University, Dr. Lieberman and his late wife, Natalie, established a fund to support the Dental Clinic for Handicapped Ch
 LIPARI-Victor. Executive Director of Dance Films Association. The Board of Directors of Dance Films Association announce with deep sorrow the passing of their Executive Director on April 8, 1997, and wish to express their heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. The dance and film w
 SALTZMAN-Manuel. We mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation Kehillat Israel in Brookline, MA, where he served for over 30 years. We extend our condolences to his wife Esther, his children Ora (Richard), Sarina (Elliot) and Ruth Saltzmann and to all who were t
 SINGER-Herbert, on April 9, 1997. Beloved husband of Leona, loving father of Ellen and Gordon, Connie and Richard, most loving grandfather of Rod, Cliff, Brad, Pam and Keith. Loving brother of Charlotte Rose. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av at 81 St, Thursday April 10, 7
 SLOANE-Howard G. It is with deep regret and a profound sense of loss that the Officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of Old Sturbridge Village in Sturbridge, MA, mark the passing of Howard G. Sloane. As a past-Chairman of our Board, Howard played a crucial and important role for Old Sturbri
 TCHERTKOFF-Victor, MD. The Medical Board and members of the medical staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center express their deep sorrow on the death of our devoted and beloved colleague, Victor Techertkoff, MD, Chief of Service, Department of Pathology at Metropolitan Hospital and Professor and
 WIENER-Gabe. New York City Opera is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of the son and brother of our very good friends, Mike Zena and Jenny Wiener. We extend our friendship and profound sympathy to the entire family on their tragic loss. May the knowledge of the support of their many fri
 Toshiro Mayuzumi, an eclectic Japanese composer who combined traditional Japanese music, neo-Romantic orchestration and electronic and avant-garde techniques in his ballet, film scores, theater works and symphonic pieces, died yesterday at a hospital in Kawasaki, near Tokyo. He was 68 and l
 Aaron Kramer, a poet and translator, died on Monday at his Long Island home. He was 75. Mr. Kramer, a professor emeritus at Dowling College in Oakdale, L.I., was the author of a number of scholarly works including ''Seven Poets in Search of an Answer'' (1944), ''The Poetry and Prose
 Fredric S. Fay, a professor of physiology and pharmacology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School who was an expert on the function of muscle cells, died on March 18 in Germany. He was 53 and lived in Worcester, Mass. He suffered a heart attack on a visit to the Universit
 Herbert Resnicow, a late-blooming mystery writer, died on April 4 at a hospitalin Roslyn, L.I. He was 75 and lived in East Williston, L.I. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. A civil engineer by training and trade, Mr. Resnicow changed careers at 60 with
 Herbert Singer, a stockbroker who owned one of the largest over-the-counter brokerage firms of the 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Singer had a career that resembled the American dream. The son of Hungarian immigrants, he never attended college and ye
 Irving J. Galpeer, a lawyer who served as a top enforcement official with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1930's and early 1940's, died April 3 at his home in Harwich, Mass., after a long illness. He was 87. While at the commission, Mr. Galpeer handled a series of frau
 John Francis Walsh, who served through turbulent times and four New York City police commissioners as the department's top uniformed commander in the 1960's, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A longtime resident of Whitestone, Queens, he was 93 and and had recently moved to
 Martin Schwarzschild, an astronomer who studied the structure and evolution of stars and who was the first to use a hot air balloon to carry a telescope into the stratosphere to take clearer pictures of the Sun, died on Thursday at St. Mary Medical Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 84. For th
 BLACK-Irving, age 90, on April 10, 1997, of Fair Lawn, New Jersey. He was the founder of two electronic manufacturing companies; Astron Corp. of East Newark, NJ, and Elmag Corp. of Newark, NJ. Survived by his son, Gary; brother, Robert; sisters, Beatrice Barbara, and Molly Levine. Services 
 GIBBONS-Patrick Joseph, Jr. Age 79, of Summit, NJ. Suddenly on April 8, 1997, in Captiva, Florida. Beloved husband of 50 years of Marie C. Gibbons. Loving father of Christine G. McKay and Patrick Joseph Gibbons III and father-inlaw of Joseph Kevin McKay and Jessica R. Gibbons. Devoted grand
 HECKSCHER-August. The members of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the death of their beloved member, August Heckscher. Distinguished twice Chairman of the Council, which he joined in 1958, he was greatly revered. We shall miss his friendship and w
 LYNCH-Vincent. A leader in political and humanitarian work for NYC School Employees Local 372. Died April 8, at age 66. Mr. Lynch was born into a prominent political family in Jamaica, W.I., on Christmas Day, 1930. His father Leopold was a leader in the Labor Party, a member of Parliament f
 POLK-Irwin. Beloved husband of Lea. Devoted father of Grace and Mel Stern, Anita and Jerry Milch, and Ruth and Alan Jacobs; dear brother of Bertha Gouzu; loving grandfather of Julie, Jackie, Rick, Lisa, Laurie, Karen, Jeff and Suzie; cherished grandfather of Zev. Service was held Friday, Ap
 WATTMAN - Herman. Beloved husband of the late Jessie for 39 years. Loving father of Paul and his wife Arlene, cherished grandfather of Barry and Rena, beloved uncle. Services were held April 10, 1997. For info, call ''Gutterman's'' 718-284-1500.       
 WIENER-Gabe. Class of '84 at The Day School. Gabe exemplified all that we hold important. He was raised to pursue excellence in all things, by parents who nurtured his love of ideas, and delighted in his enthusiasm for the intellect. His warm heartedness, the encouragement and support he ga
 Arthur S. Kling, a California psychiatrist who was an expert on the brain functions linked to emotions and social behavior, died on March 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The apparent cause was pneumonia, after a long struggle with cancer, according to the University of Cal
 J. Wister Meigs, an epidemiologist and researcher in occupational medicine, public health and the environmental causes of cancer, died on March 25 at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Hamden, Conn. Dr. Meigs was associated with the dep
 ABRAHAMS - Howard Phineas. March 19, 1997. Advertising and promotion executive. Born in Yonkers, NY, July 12, 1904. Education: Cornell University, University of Florida and Cumberland University. Pre-deceased by his son Allen E. Abrahams, Ph.D. Survived by his wife Florence Blostein Abraham
 BREGMAN-Neal. Age 80, on April 12, 1997. Cherished husband of Ida. Devoted father of T. Claire Daroca of Evergreen, CO and Paul Bregman M.D. of Denver, CO, Larry Jacobson of Westbury, LI and Don Jacobson of Upper Montclair, NJ. Loving father-in-law of Woody Daroca, Kristi Bregman, Ellen Jac
 CONATY-Arthur. The President of Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are profoundly saddened by the passing of Arthur Conaty, dear father of our esteemed colleague, Mr. Robert B. Conaty, executive vicepresident of operations. A giving man, devoted to his family and deeply com
 DIENER-David E. The Vogel famly deeply mourns his death on April 7, from his sister Marcia, brother-in-law Amos and nephews Steven M. and Loring I. May he rest in peace.       
 EDRI-Sharon. Park East Synagogue mourns the tragic death of Israel's soldier, Sharon Edri, victim of terrorist murder. To his sister Danielle and brother-in-law Harry Karten, our devoted members, and to the entire family, our deepest sympathy. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion
 FEIT-Elliot J. Of Stamford, CT., on Friday, April 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Claudine. Devoted father of Felice and Saul. Cherished son of Miriam and Louis Feit. Loving brother of Rebecca Feit Klein. He was a graduate of MIT and received his Master's and Doctorate at Harvard University in
 GAGE-Edwin ''Peter.'' The Board of Trustees and members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sadness the passing of long time member, friend and past President of the Board of Trustees, Edwin Peter Gage. He was a friend to the community and will be missed. Andrew Arno, President Laurie Lowenst
 HECKSCHER-August. The members of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the death of their beloved member, August Heckscher. Distinguished twice Chairman of the Council, which he joined in 1958, he was greatly revered. We shall miss his friendship and w
 KARP-Arthur J. We mourn the passing of our dearest friend and respected colleague. His loyalty and devotion for over 40 years will be missed and cherished forever. We extend our profound sympathy to Barbara and Eddie. Irving Handel & Co.       
 LIEBERMAN-Joseph D. The Board of Directors of 4/70 Owners Corp offer their deepest condolences to the family of Dr. Joseph Lieberman. Dr. Lieberman was President of the Board. Dr. Lieberman will long be remembered for his outstanding service during his tenure as President.       
 LUTTINGER-Joaquin. The Physics Department of Columbia University notes with sorrow the passing of one of its long beloved members. Joaquin M. Luttinger, who taught at Columbia from 1960 to 1973, is remembered by his colleagues and students as a friendly presence, a source of wide knowledge 
 LYNCH-Vincent. A leader in political and humanitarian work for NYC School Employees Local 372. Died April 8, at age 66. Mr. Lynch was born into a prominent political family in Jamaica, W.I., on Christmas Day, 1930. His father Leopold was a leader in the Labor Party, a member of Parliament f
 O'BRIEN-Frank, Sr. Colleagues and friends at the NYU School of Medicine mourn the loss of Frank O' Brien, Sr., father of our highly respected clinician and teacher, Dr. Francis O'Brien. Mr. O'Brien was a distinguished maritime lawyer who endowed his four sons with a legacy of professional a
 POLK-Irwin. Beloved husband of Lea. Devoted father of Grace and Mel Stern, Anita and Jerry Milch, and Ruth and Alan Jacobs; dear brother of Bertha Gouzu; loving grandfather of Julie, Jackie, Rick, Lisa, Laurie, Karen, Jeff and Suzie; cherished grandfather of Zev. Service was held Friday, Ap
 PUCHKOFF - Theodore Hertzl. Age 89. With saddened hearts, his family, son David and daughter-inlaw Eileen, son Jerome, grandchildren Carrie, Adam and granddaughter-in-law Paola, their mother Anne, granddaughter Maya, nieces Sylvia and June, sister and brother-in-law Pearl and Jack, companio
 SOLOMON-Leo, 86, of Cranbury, NJ, on Thursday April 10. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, and uncle. He is survived by his wife, Pauline, his daughters, Diane Solomon and Joan Weiss, his son-in-law, Allan, and his grandchildren, Brian and Michael.       
 WIENER-Gabe. The members of New York Baroque, Eric Milnes, director and all PGM Recording Artists whose dreams were realized by Gabe express their heartfelt sympathy to his family, friends, and the staff of PGM Recordings. Gabe shared his light with us, and we are grateful.       
 WILSON-William W., 97, at home in Garden City, Wednesday, April 9. Loyal alumnus Colgate University. Member: Rotary, University Club L.I., American Legion, DKE, Phi Beta Kappa. Married: Alice Corl, died 1935; Frances Seydel, died 1995. Retired officer: Citibank, Long Island Trust Co. Former
 SIMOR-George. Died suddenly on July 3, 1996, on Nantucket Island. Medievalist, librarian & archivist. Librarian at Columbia University (1963-64), Rare Book Librarian at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri (1964-66), Head of Rare Book Cataloging and Bibliography in the Research Libr
 David E. Diener, for decades a major figure in film industry advertising, died of kidney failure on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 78. Mr. Diener served as president of the Diener Hauser advertising agency from 1964 to 1975. Known as the Monroe Greenthal Com
 Gabriel Wiener, an audio specialist and founder of Pro Gloria Musica, which produces recordings of early music, was found dead on Wednesday in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 26. No cause of his death was given. His father, Michael, said he was believed to have died of natural ca
 George Montgomery, a poet, photographer and museum curator and director, died on April 7 at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was Huntington's disease, said Dan Wagoner, his companion. A witty, vividly perceptive poet, Mr. Montgom
 George Wald, a biologist who was a joint winner of a Nobel Prize in 1967 for his research on how the eye passes images to the brain, died on Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90. Dr. Wald, who was also an outspoken opponent of United States' involvement in Vietnam, ret
 Howard G. Sloane, a New York real estate executive who advised four administrations on trade issues, died Monday at New York Hospital after a brief illness, according to his son, Peter Sloane. He was 76. Mr. Sloane, who lived in Larchmont, N.Y., was an advocate of increasing exports
 Judge Jerry Pacht, a retired Los Angeles Superior Court judge who served for many years on the California Commission on Judicial Qualifications, which reviews judicial conduct, died on April 1 at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica. He was 75. The cause was a cerebral hemorrha
 BERGER-Oscar Mac, age 93, on April 12. Beloved and devoted husband of Flora; loving father of Suellen and David Rubin, Joel and Judy Berger; caring grandfather of Danielle and Deborah. Known as the ''sexiest custom tailor on Broadway,'' he lived life to the fullest, bringing love and a spec
 EDELMAN-Lillian. The Board of Governors and membership of Ridgeway Country Club offer their deepest condolences to Dr. Paul Carton and family upon the passing of his mother Lillian Edelman. Stanley Goldberg, President EDELMAN-Lillian. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorro
 HORNICK-Eugene, age 72, of Woodbridge, NJ, died Saturday at Newark Beth Israel M.C. Mr. Hornick was born in New York City. He was for ten years an oil chemist for Shell Oil in Sewaren. Later from 1960 until 1985 he was an owner of the EBCO Electrical Supply Co. in Middlesex, NJ. He was a na
 KLEIN-Dr. Arthur Luce, born March 31, 1916, to Joseph Klein and Jennie Kallish, in Carbondale, PA, died of a heart attack on April 7, 1997, in New Rochelle. Dr. Klein was an actor, director, and consumate raconteur. He founded Spoken Arts Inc., the distinguished recording company which was 
 LUTTINGER-Joaquin. The Physics Department of Columbia University notes with sorrow the passing of one of its long beloved members. Joaquin M. Luttinger, who taught at Columbia from 1960 to 1993, is remembered by his colleagues and students as a friendly presence, a source of wide knowledge 
 RUTMAN-Darrett B., Ph.D. (Historian). On April 11, 1997, of Westport, CT. Husband of the late Anita H. Father of Morgan and Elizabeth Rutman. Brother-in-law of Harriett and Alan Elisofon. Grandfather of Samantha, Sydney and Sadie Rutman. Funeral service today at 1:00 PM, Hawthorne Funeral H
 SHERMAN-Steven, after a valiant battle with a fatal disease, cancer, is finally at peace. A proficient Judgment Clerk of the Civil Court and well informed intellectual human being. Survived by his mother Lorraine, who lovingly cared for him to the very end. Dear brother of Howard and brothe
 WILSON-William W., 97, at home in Garden City, Wednesday, April 9. Loyal alumnus Colgate University. Member: Rotary, University Club L.I., American Legion, DKE, Phi Beta Kappa. Married: Alice Corl, died 1935; Frances Seydel, died 1995. Retired officer: Citibank, Long Island Trust Co. Former
 ZARUCKI-Charles. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend, our business partner, and confidant, who brought forth great strength, wisdom, and courage to all those who were privileged to have shared in his life. We are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of such an inspiration and we extend
 John Thomas Landry, whose knack for marketing helped turn Marlboro into the world's largest-selling cigarette and whose love of horse racing inspired the Marlboro Cup, died on Sunday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Landry
 Michael Dorris, a prolific novelist, essayist, critic and educator who won the National Book Award in 1989 for ''The Broken Cord,'' about his adopted son's struggle with fetal alcohol syndrome, was found dead on Friday in a motel in Concord, N.H., where he had taken a room under an assumed 
 CARLOS-Robert M., 74, of St. Petersburg, FL died April 11, 1997. He retired as a Financial Manager for G.E. after 40 years. Survivors are 2 sons: Robert ''Bob'' II, FL, Buzz, CT; Daughter: Terry Gallo, NY ; 6 grandchildren and a companion: Nell Guttschling, FL. For information contact Ander
 DARDECK-Philip, 83, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY, died April 13, 1997. He is survived by his beloved wife and best friend of 54 years, Shirley nee Hahn, his loving daughter Kathryn Dardeck of Hatfield, MA, his devoted son and daughter-in-law, Stephen and Judy Dardeck, and ado
 FALLON-Robert R. on April 11, 1997. Educated Michigan State University, Cranbrook Bloomfield Hills, MI, Art Student's League. Served in Submarine Service. Career began J.L. Hudson, later graphic designer for Vogue, Sperry Hutchinson, IBM, American Express. A prolific painter, his work appea
 MATTHEWS-Mark S., age 90, died Saturday April 12, 1997 at his home in Delray Beach, Florida. He was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1906. Mr. Matthews lived in Greenwich, CT and Delray Beach, FL for the past 40 years. He graduated from Columbia Law School in 1930. Mr. Matthews was appointed by
 McPHETERS-William Hunter, on April 14, 1997. Beloved husband of Beatrice A. Loving father of William Hunter McPheters, Jr. and Martha Nell McPheters Ealy. Devoted grandfather of Julie Claire McPheters, Alexander George Gounares and Peter Hunter Gounares. Funeral service 11AM Thursday, April
 SAMERS-Bernard N. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee are immensely grieved by the death of a luminous figure in all of our lives. As Executive Vice President from 1986 to 1995 and later as Executive Vice President Emeritus, he inspi
 Paul Henson, the telephone executive who built the first major fiber optic network, which improved sound quality so much that Sprint advertised you could hear a pin drop at the other end of the line, died in Palm Springs, Calif., on Saturday. He was 71. Mr. Henson died of complicati
 David McCord, who earned renown as an author of children's poetry and also wrote adult poetry and prose, died on Sunday in Goddard House, a nursing home in Boston. He was 99. To generations of Harvard graduates like himself, Mr. McCord was also known as the executive director of the
 Mustafa Amin, a pioneer of Arab journalism and an advocate of Western-style democracy who was imprisoned under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, died at his home in Cairo on Sunday. He was 83. Mr. Amin and his twin brother, Ali, were publishers of Egypt's five best-selling publications 
 CANTWELL-Dennis, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Child Study Center of the New York University Medical Center and New York University School of Medicine mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dennis Cantwell, M.D., the Joseph Campbell Professor of Child Psychiatry at UCLA. Denny was 
 EISENBERG-David Abram. Suddenly on April 3, 1997 in Los Angeles. Deeply loved by family, Melvin, Helen and sister Bronwyn Bonnie, Grandmother Laura, and many friends. Practiced law for five and one half years in L.A. Graduate of U.C.L.A. Film School and University of California, Berkeley La
 FRIEDMAN-Yerachmiel. The Orthodox Union and NCSY mourn the passing of the father of our National Vice President and Chairman of our National Youth Commission, Howard Tzvi Friedman. Yerachimel Friedman was a Torah scholar, a builder of Torah, and an effective leader of the Baltimore Orthodox
 GOLDBERG-Moe. March 26, 1997. Devoted husband of the late Tanya Krutchkoff. Loving father of Judy Valdez. He will be missed.       
 GRUSZECKI-Matias. Beloved husband of Fanny. Devoted father of Mary and Bruce Rabiner, Harry and Gladys Gruszecki and Abraham and Mali Gruszecki. Adored grandfather of Danielle, Shauna, Rita, Tobi, Bonnie, Perry, Lennert and Sylvia. Adored great-grandfather of Sarah Rose, Ian, Mason, Marisa,
 INDELLI-John P. Of Yonkers. On April 13, 1997. We are forever grateful to him for his many kindnesses and insights, and for being our wonderful host each year at Christmas time. He was our beloved friend and confidante. The Partners of White, Weld & Co.       
 LANDRY - Jack. Sportsman, marketeer supreme, horse enthusiast and friend to all, he will be missed, but never forgotten. Pres. Screvane & the Skeeters       
 LATMAN-Jeffrey T. The Partners of Goldstein Golub Kessler & Company, P.C. are saddened by the passing of our Partner and leader of our Healthcare Services Group. Jeffrey T. Latman, 54, died of heart failure while hospitalized on April 15. Beloved husband of Judy, devoted father of Neil, Mar
 PANKEN-Irving, 78, Director of Organization, Professional Staff Congress-CUNY and lifetime Social Democrat, died on April 13 after a lengthy illness. Beloved husband of Shirley Panken, devoted father of Ted Panken, doting grandfather of Angelina, loving brother of Mildred Diller. Irving beg
 PLATT-Sol. On behalf of the Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Fresh Meadow Country CLub, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family on the passing of our esteemed member, Sol Platt. He will be missed by all of us. Richard Reitman, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary    
 STROKA-Michael G., actor, died after a long and valiant battle with cancer at his home in West Hollywood, CA, April 14th, 1997. Survived by his beloved wife Karen and his mother Helen. Contributions may be made to the Bes Kimberly Scholarship Fund at Carnegie Mellon University.       
 WILLIAMS-William L., of Hilton Head Island, S.C., a long time resident of Bronxville, New York, and a retired senior partner of the international law firm of White & Case, died on Saturday, April 12th at his home. He was 83 and had retired in 1980. He is survived by his wife, the former Mar
 Craig B. Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer with primary responsibility for product development, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River of
 Ellis Benjamin Gardner Jr., a retired transportation executive who helped modernize American shipbuilding in the 1960's, died on April 4 at Stamford Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Gardner retired some years ago as 
 Gerald Piaget, whose name became synonymous with women's ultrathin watches that sold for as much as $3 million, died on Saturday in his native Switzerland. He was 79. Mr. Piaget died at Areuse, in Neuchatel canton, according to the Swiss news agency ATS, which cited a family announc
 Merrill Folsom, a Westchester County correspondent for The New York Times from 1937 until his retirement in 1968, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 94 and lived in White Plains. Mr. Folsom graduated from the Minneapolis Institute of Fine Arts and studied at Columbia Un
 BRAZIER-John B. (Jack), age 51, died on April 16, 1997 in Meriden, CT, after a long battle with cancer. He was the beloved husband of Leslie Clauson Brazier, and was a sales rep for World of Golf, NYC. He was born in Bridgeport, CT., and was a resident most of his life. Services will take p
 CANTWELL-Dennis, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Child Study Center of the New York University Medical Center and New York University School of Medicine mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dennis Cantwell, M.D., the Joseph Campbell Professor of Child Psychiatry at UCLA. Denny was 
 COOPER-Burton S. On April 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Dorothy, loving father of Douglas and Terry Cooper & Lisa and Stanley Brettschneider, dear brother of Jerome & Iylene Cooper, adoring grandfather of Andrew, Joshua, Allison and Abigail. Service today 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th
 COOPER-John N. A former president of the New York Intellectual Property Association and longtime senior partner of the law firm of Cooper & Dunham of New York City, died on April 15, 1997, in Stamford, Connecticut. Born in New Brunswick, New Jersey, on November 30, 1910, Mr. Cooper attended
 DAVIS-Eli. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Professor Eli Davis, beloved Director-General Emeritus of the Hadassah Medical Organization from 1948-51, who died yesterday in Israel at the age of 89. Renowned as a man of both science and letters, Dr. Davis was a pioneer of Israeli medicin
 GARIBALDI-Joseph J. III, on April 13th, 1997, beloved husband of Barbara Core, devoted father of Kimberly A., Michael F. and Joseph J., IV., loving son of Clare Markey and Joseph J. Jr., dear brother of Mrs. Gerald (Patricia Ann) Jurewicz, John J., James J., and Jeffrey Garibaldi. A Memoria
 HAUSMAN-Robert J. Former Chairman of Loews Hotels, Chairman of the Princess Grace Foundation-USA, Director of the 92nd Street ''Y,'' and Director of the Foundation for Westchester Community College died on April 15, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. He is survived by his wife, Gloria; his three daught
 LATMAN-Jeffrey T. Everyone at Kalkines, Arky, Zall & Bernstein LLP is saddened by the death of Jeffrey T. Latman. He was a valued and respected colleague and friend. We will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.       
 POWELL-Joel L. Age 56, suddenly on April 15, 1997 at Freehold, N.J. Loving husband of Diane (nee Weiss). Son of Mrs. Betty Powell. Father of Richard and Alysa Slifkin. Also survived by son-in-law Richard Slifkin, his mother and father-in-law Harry and Lee Weiss, sister-in-law Iris, brother-
 SAMERS-Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (ATS) mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Bernie Samers. Bernie succumbed after a long and gallant battle with cancer but he faced his illness w
 STERN-Martin. Of Palm Beach, Fla. formerly of NYC passed away April 14, 1997. He is survived by his wife Karol Stern, son Steven (Janet), daughter Barbara Heffer (John), grandchildren, Michael Stern (Lauren), Marcy Stern, Alison and Douglas Heffer and one great-grandchild, Matthew Stern. Gr
 WINOKUR-Samuel, 91, a business executive and community leader. He raduated from The Hotchkiss School, Yale College and Yale Law School, where he was Editorin-Chi ef of the Yale Law Journal. Selected as clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Howard Taft. He was an attorney at Sull
 Robert J. Hausman, a longtime chairman of Loews Hotels and of the Princess Grace Foundation, died on Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 73. Mr. Hausman died of leukemia, his wife, Gloria, said. They had lived in Greenwich. After returning from World War II,
 Chaim Herzog, Israel's outspoken President from 1983 to 1993, died yesterday at Tel Hashomer Hospital in Tel Aviv. He was 78 and lived in Herzliya Pituach, a suburb of Tel Aviv. The cause was heart failure after he contracted pneumonia on a recent visit to the United States, said Ra
 Craig Butler Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River off Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in New Canaan, 
 Emilio Azcarraga Milmo, a hard-driving billionaire who built his family's television and radio network into the largest media empire in the Spanish-speaking world, died of cancer Wednesday at a residence he maintained in Miami, a company spokesman said. He was 66. Mr. Azcarraga was 
 HAUSMAN-Robert J. The Trustees of Westchester Community College and the Directors of the WCC Foundation wish to express their deep sorrow and regret at the passing of Robert J. Hausman, a dedicated and caring Board member. We extend our condolences to his wife Gloria and his entire family. 
 BRUDER-Mark. The Board of Directors and staff of Lawyers for Children, Inc. mourn the untimely death of our friend and colleague, Mark Bruder. His dedication and compassion will be as great a loss to his friends and family as to the thousands of children he tirelessly served. We extend our 
 CANTWELL-Dennis. The staff of NIMH's MTA Study mourns the death of Dennis Cantwell, Joseph Campbell Professor of Child Psychiatry at UCLA, an intellectual father of the MTA study. The MTA Study is a landmark national study of Attention Deficit Disorder treatments. We shall miss his quick wi
 COOPER-Burt. We mourn the loss of our beloved colleague and friend. You were the shining example of what an honest businessman and a good family man should be. Our condolences to your entire family. Bus Association of NY State Russ Ferdinand, President Mark Boungard, Secretary COOPE
 DURAND-Harrison F., one of the nation's leading experts in estate and trust law, died on April 16, 1997, at Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, at the age of 93. Prior to moving to Martha's Vineyard in 1995, Mr. Durand and his family resided in Short Hills, New Jersey for over 60 years. From 
 HERZOG - Chaim. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Chaim Herzog, the sixth President of Israel. His memory will be forever cherished by all fellow Zionists for his courageous stand as Israel's ambassador to the UN against the reprehensible 1975 UN resolution equating Zionism with racism.
 KNEEN-Harold Fitch, 94, of Guilford, CT., died on April 16, 1997. Survivors are his wife, Mary Banks Kneen, a daughter, Carolyn Evans Rawson & a son, Brewster, five grandchildren and six great grandchildren, a stepdaughter Mary B. Calhoun and a stepson William M. Foord, III. Services will b
 KOLINS-Martin, age 81 of Bayside, NY, died on April 12, 1997 at North Shore Hospital. Cherished husband of Elizabeth Gene Kolins, caring step father to Donie Butz Williams, Silversmith of Milford, Penn.; and loving 'Pa-Ba' to Spencer Wigdor. Survived also by son, Peter Kolins, a lawyer of G
 LOUGHLIN-Richard L., Ph.D., 89, Bradenton, FL, died April 14, 1997. Former Queens resident. Professor Emeritus, Bronx Community College of the City College of NY, Dr. Loughlin authored/co-authored volumes of poetry, secondary English textbooks and study guides, and hundreds of articles on h
 PIERSON-Robert L. Of Columbiaville, NY. On April 13, 1997. Received master of Divinity degree from Nashota House. He was ordained a priest in 1954. In addition to other parishes he was rector of St. Paul's, Bronx, NY, St. Barnabas, Newark, N.J. and did supply work at St. Paul's Church, Tivo
 RAEBURN-Ben. 1911-1997. Founder, president, editor, Horizon Press, NYC. Renowned for integrity and quality. Published dozens of pre-eminent writers and creative thinkers, including his close friends Frank Lloyd Wright, Irving Howe, Harold Rosenberg, B.H. Haggin, James Hanley. Admired for hi
 RUISINGER-Thomas. Gentleman, actor. Died on March 11, 1997. at 69 years old at Cardinal Cooke Home. A graduate of Southern Methodist University, he came to New York City from his home in Dallas, TX. He studied at the Neighborhood Playhouse and worked consistently in the theater on Broadway 
 SAMERS-Bernard. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Friends of The Hebrew University mourn the passing of our colleague and friend Bernie Samers. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Edith and his children Bill, Michael and Audrey. Keith L. Sachs President 
 STERN-Dr. Fred. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his death with profound sorrow. He was gentle and kind and compassionate. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Paula, Heidi and Devora. His memory will be a blessing. Harvey M. Tattelbaum, Rabbi Dr. Ellen Saxl, President       
 L. Brent Bozell, a writer and longtime champion of conservative political causes, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, his  family said. Mr. Bozell (pronounced boh-ZELL) co-founded the national conserv
 Les Cason, whose overwhelmingly successful basketball career at East Rutherford High School in New Jersey signaled a promise he never came close to achieving, died on Wednesday. He was 43. Cason died from complications from AIDS at a nursing home in Manhattan, said Rod Malloy, a spo
 DUDLER-Michael David, 58, of Manasquan, New Jersey, 4/17/97. Beloved brother of Frank Dudlar, Walnut Lake, MI., and Barbara Ginsberg, Chester, NJ. Uncle of Gunnar Gray Dudlar, Ann Arbor, MI, Gannon Thor Dudlar, Walnut Lake, MI, Kevin Michael Ginsberg and Brian Lee Ginsberg both of Chester, 
 GRUBER-Alan Richard. Age 69. On April 17, 1997. Beloved husband of Harriet (Mandel), loving father of James (Janet Elgar), Marian (Walter Montgomery) and Steven (Elizabeth Strauss) and delighted grandfather of Caleb, Kirsten, Abigail, Samuel, Matthew, Lucas, David, Rebecca, Emily, Johanna a
 HERZOG-Chaim. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science notes with sorrow the passing of a dynamic diplomat and statesman, who served his country and his people with unsurpassed devotion. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire Herzog family. Gershon Kekst, Chairman
 LATMAN-Jeffrey T. The Chinatown Health Clinic and The Asian Health Center of Flushing deeply regret the loss of Jeffrey T. Latman. Jeff was a mentor, valued advisor and true friend of the Clinic. He guided us in our growth and development. To Neal and the entire Latman family, we send our h
 PIERSON-Robert L. Of Columbiaville, NY. On April 13, 1997. Received master of Divinity degree from Nashota House. He was ordained a priest in 1954. In addition to other parishes he was rector of St. Paul's, Bronx, NY, St. Barnabas, Newark, N.J. and did supply work at St. Paul's Church, Tivo
 WIRTH-Gunther. The Officers, Directors and Members of the Club Managers of the City of New York sadly announce the death of our friend and colleague. For many years, Gunther devoted himself, unselfishly, to the interests of club management. To all of us in the industry, he was and always wi
 Richard Stockton, a playwright, died on April 5 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 65. The cause was a heart-valve infection and complications from a stroke, said his wife, Irene. Mr. Stockton's play ''Prisoner of the Crown'' had its premiere at the Abbey Th
 Bernard Norman Samers, a fund-raiser for Jewish philanthropies and former executive vice president of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel, died last Sunday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 63 and lived in Stamford. The cause was cance
 David Hunter Elwyn, a biochemist who formulated nourishment to sustain critically ill patients unable to feed themselves, died on April 6 at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Ossining. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Dr. Elwyn was an
 Emery Deutsch, a violinist, songwriter and orchestra leader who had his first success in the early days of radio broadcasting, died on Wednesday at the Villa Maria rehabilitation center in Miami. He was 91. In a career of 60-some years, Mr. Deutsch wrote more than 80 songs, includin
 Hugh Percival Henry Gough, an instrument maker who was an important figure in the world of early-music performance, died on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 81. Mr. Gough was born in Heptonstall, Yorkshire, England, in 1916, and earned a degree in economics at Univers
 Joseph Corteggiano, a bass-baritone with the New York City Opera, died on April 7 at his mother's home in Baltimore. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said Susan Woelzl, spokeswoman for the City Opera. Since his company debut in 1990 as the Bonze in P
 AZCARRAGA MILMO-Emilio. I join the people of Mexico in noting the death of Emilio Azcarraga Milmo. He most certainly did fulfill his mandate to broadcast entertainment to the world. Saint Francis, your friend is now home. Jose E. R. Maldonado, II       
 BUCKLEY - Michael Conrad. 1963-1997. Died suddenly at home on April 17, of heart failure. Greatly beloved by his two mothers Conrad Paulus and Susan Buckley, his sister Annabel Wildrick and Ben, his brother David Buckley and Kate Simpson, and many friends. Within his hard life Michael found
 CANTWELL-Vincent F., 65, 4/16/ 97. Survived by wife Margaret Vonk Cantwell, children Vincent Cantwell, M. Grace Cantwell, Maj. Gregory Cantwell, Katherine Rabago, Richard Cantwell and grandchildren. Dr. Cantwell (Edd., Columbia '91) was Administrator of Englewood, NJ public schools, '72-'93
 CHUSID-Dr. Emanuel, of Neversink, NY, a 39 year resident of Mt. Vernon, NY, died Thurdsay, April 17 at Arden Hill Nursing Center in Goshen, NY. The son of the late Sonia and Nathan Chusid, he was born March 25, 1920 in NYC. He graduated from City College of New York, and Chicago Medical Sch
 FISCH-Nicholas (Miklos), C.P.A., died on April 17, 1997, at age 82. He is deeply mourned by his wife, Vera, sister Elizabeth Kallus, stepson John Dietz, and all his relatives and good friends, both in the USA and in Hungary. Memorial service at 4 P.M., on Sunday, April 27, at Parkside Funer
 HERZOG-Chaim. The entire Boys Town Jerusalem family joins with the family of Israel in mourning the passing of Chaim Herzog, the sixth President of Israel. We remain inspired by the remarks he made after his visit to Boys Town. ''The things I saw here today convince me that Boys Town Jerusa
 HUDSON-John. Family and friends mourn John's passing on April 12, 1997, in Portland, Oregon. John was a labor union and human rights activist his entire life. Born February 26, 1949, in Danville, Illinois, he completed undergraduate studies in economics at the University of Illiniois, Urban
 KARMIN-Perry Saul. Suddenly, April 17, 1997. Beloved husband, father, son. Survived by wife Virginia, daughter Jennifer, son Aaron and father Paul. As a kidney transplant recipient, he was admired for his strength, courage and inspiration. Services Monday, 1 PM, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jer
 KATZ-Leslie G. Ballet Society notes with great sadness the death of Leslie Katz, founder and guiding spirit of the extraordinary Eakins Press Foundation. He leaves a rich and elegant legacy. It was our particular honor to collaborate with him on projects commemorating the work of George Bal
 LOBEL-Irv. Beloved husband of Carolyn, cherished father of Rhona and Steven and father-in-law of Joanne and Jim, adoring Poppy of Robby and Alex. Founder and President of Lobel Chemical Corporation. Irv loved life, his family, business and golf with unfailing joy and enthusiasm. His caring,
 McBEAN-Peter. It is with great sadness that we acknowledge the death of Peter McBean, late of San Francisco and Newport, Knight of Grace in The Priory in the United States of The Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem, awarded by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. Peter 
 O'CONNOR-Dr. Donald J. In his 74th year, of Glen Rock, NJ. Died April 18, 1997. He was a member of the Manhattan College Engineering faculty since 1952. Beloved husband of Anita (nee Lordi). Loving father of Dennis, Arlene O'Connor-Bell, and Jeanette O'Connor. Devoted brother of Fr. Samuel 
 PIERSON-Robert L. Of Columbiaville, NY. On April 13, 1997. Received master of Divinity degree from Nashota House. He was ordained a priest in 1954. In addition to other parishes he was rector of St. Paul's, Bronx, NY, St. Barnabas, Newark, N.J. and did supply work at St. Paul's Church, Tivo
 SAFIAN-Dr. Alfred. Age 83 of NYC, died April 18, 1997. He served as a captain in the medical corps during World War II where he received four campaign ribbons and a purple heart. He worked as an anesthesiologist from 1948-1976. The last hospitals in which he worked where Elmhurst General an
 SCHWARTZ-Harry. Age 87, on April 18, 1997, of Royal Palm Beach, FL, and formerly of Jamaica, NY. Beloved husband of Sylvia (Clarin). Loving father of Sandra Gering, Toby Mainwald and Alan. Proud grandfather of Brad Gering, Margie Gering Feinberg, Linda Gering Kreisberg, Howard Stein, Debra 
 WIRTH-Gunther. The Council, Officers, and Members of the University Club mourn the death on April 17, of Gunther Wirth, our esteemed and devoted Manager. Mr. Wirth served the Club and its Members superbly for the past twelve years. His leadership and dedication to the Club and its tradition
 Robert Henry Wentorf Jr., a latter-day alchemist who employed superpressures to turn lowly graphite into diamonds for myriad uses in drilling, cutting and grinding, died on April 3 at his home in Easton, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Went
 Yank Rachell, one of the few blues musicians to specialize on the mandolin, died on April 9 at his home in Indianapolis. He was 87. Mr. Rachell, whose real first name was James, grew up on a farm near Brownsville, Tenn. He said that at the age of 8 he received his first mandolin in 
 Arthur Luce Klein, the founder and president of Spoken Arts, a pioneering company in the field of recorded literature, died on April 7 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. Mr. Klein founded Spoken Arts with his wife, Luce, in the mid-1950's to record important works of liter
 Biju Patnaik, one of the most prominent survivors of the generation of Indian leaders who took part in the independence struggle against Britain, died here on Thursday. He was 81. Mr. Patnaik twice served as Chief Minister of Orissa, a state in eastern India with a population of mor
 Glanville Williams, a British authority on criminal law who taught at Cambridge and also was a visiting professor at Columbia and New York University, died on April 10. He was 86 and a longtime resident of Cambridge, England. His death was reported on Thursday by The Independent, wh
 GARRETT-John D. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Diana, and to the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Bd. Robert P. Antler, President       
 HERZOG-Chaim. The Jewish National Fund mourns the passing of former President of the State of Israel Chaim Herzog. We have lost a true champion of the Jewish people and the Zionist cause. An outstanding statesman, President Herzog guided Israel's people through the hardships of war and expr
 KATZ-Leslie G. Ballet Society notes with great sadness the death of Leslie Katz, founder and guiding spirit of the extraordinary Eakins Press Foundation. He leaves a rich and elegant legacy. It was our particular honor to collaborate with him on projects commemorating the work of George Bal
 NIKOLIS-Gary P., M.D. On April 19, 1997, at the age of 44. He is survived by his mother Artie, brothers Bill and Phillip, sister Anna, nieces and nephews and many friends. As a doctor, artist, traveler and adventurer, he lived each day fully and touched the lives of all he met. A memorial s
 SHEINKOPF-Allen. Survived by his wife Mollie, his son Solomon and his daughter Freida and six grandchildren. He was past Master of E.G.G. Lodge, number 889 F.&A.M., also past Grand Sword Bearer, Grand Lodge, NYS Masons. He will be dearly missed.       
 Richard Tousey, a solar physicist who used a captured World War II V-2 rocket to take the first photographs of the Sun's ultraviolet spectrum from beyond the atmosphere, died on Tuesday at Prince Georges Hospital Center in Maryland. He was 88 and had lived in Mitchellville, Md. At t
 Thomas J. Connor, who had such a brief but decidedly eventful career with the Federal Bureau of Investigation that he dined out on it for six decades -- including 18 cold war years with the Central Intelligence Agency, died on April 14 at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 91 and the last 
 Watkins Reynolds Matthews, a wiry wrangler who spent more than half a century presiding over his family's showcase Texas cattle spread, died on April 13 at the historic Lambshead Ranch, 140 miles west of Fort Worth. He was 98 and the last of his generation in one of the state's oldest and m
 Alan R. Gruber, who took charge of the Equity Funding Corporation after it collapsed in the 1970's in a big financial scandal and rebuilt it into the Orion Capital Corporation, a thriving insurance holding company, died Friday, the company announced. He was 69. Mr. Gruber, who was O
 Gen. Andres Rodriguez, who led a coup in Paraguay in 1989 that ended more than three decades of dictatorship by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, died today at a New York hospital. He was 72. A spokesman for the Paraguayan Embassy in Washington said that Gen. Rodriguez had died of complicati
 Donald Joseph O'Connor, a civil engineer and a leading authority on water pollution and sanitary engineering, died on Friday at his home in Glen Rock, N.J. He was 74. He died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for Manhattan College in Riverdale, the Bronx, where he was distinguished prof
 AZCARRAGA MILMO-Emilio. I join the people of Mexico in mouring the death of Emilio Azcarraga Milmo. He most certainly did fulfill his mandate to broadcast entertainment to the world. Saint Francis, your friend is now home. Jose E. R. Maldonado, II       
 BEYDA-Joseph. Once in a generation, the Almighty gives us a gift and puts on this earth a person whose purpose is to lead, and make a difference. In his 57 short years, Joseph has touched thousands of souls from children to senior citizens. His humanity, his kindness, and his caring inspire
 CHENG-Andrew Chih-Kang. Physician, 57. Andrew Chih-Kang Cheng, MD, an attending Anesthesiologist at North Shore University Hospital died on April 17, at SloanKettering Memorial Hospital in New York. He was 57. The cause of death was lung cancer, said his wife, Sandra Kwee-Cheun LimCheng. Dr
 FEDER-Henry, who owned and ran Joel's dress shop on Church Street in West Chester, Pennsylvania for more than 40 years, died on April 20, 1997 after a long and painful illness, at the home of his brother, Samuel L. Feder, M.D.,in Lenox, Massachusetts. He was 85. Joel's was a successful fami
 HABER-Leonard. Beloved husband of Janet. Devoted father of David, Jeffrey, Michael and Robert. Cherished father-in-law of Dana, Nancy and Lori and adored grandfather of William, Jessica, Eric, Briana, Joshua and Lindsay. Len was a wonderful, caring person always exhibiting his intelligence 
 HEILMAN-Frederic. Suddenly, in Longboat Key, Florida. Beloved husband of Kathryn, adored father of Craig and Tracy, devoted son of the late Rosalind and Samuel, loving brother of Dr. Kenneth Heilman. Will be sorely missed by his family and many friends. Services Thursday, April 24, 1997 at 
 KANE-Joseph A. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Joseph A. Kane. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President       
 KELMAN-Norman Joseph, M.D. At home in Manhattan of leukemia. On April 20, at age 82. Beloved father of Peter, Barbara Ravage, and David. Also survived by his brother Gilbert and sister Ruth Rosenzweig, four stepchildren, nine grandchildren, six step-grandchildren, two stepgreat-grandchildre
 KRAMER-Elmer E., M.D., suddenly at home on April 20th, 1997. He was a Clinical Professor in the Departments of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Gyn. Pathology at Cornell University Medical College. Husband of Anne Gleysteen Kramer, father of Toni of San Francisco and Dirk, grandfather of Annie, b
 MESHBERG-Jules N. of Newport Cove, Delray Beach, Fl. died on April 20, 1997. He was co-founder and President of Majestic Factors Corporation (1936-1964). He is survived by his beloved wife Jeanette, daughter Elinor Mero, brother Irving Meshberg, sister Marietta Hass, grandson Michael Levin 
 PIERSON-Robert L. Cynthia C. Wainwright, Chairman, and Scott P. Heyl, Executive Director, on behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the Historic House Trust of New York City, express their condolences to Board member Joseph Pierson, on the death of his father, Robert L. Pierson.     
 SMITH-Sidney. The Officers and Trustees of Jewish Child Care Association convey their deepest sympathy to the family fo Sidney Smith. In his many years as director of Business affairs at JCCA, Mr. Smith's superior professional skills enabled him to make a real difference in the lives of cli
 SUTTER-Meyer, Monday, April 21st, in his 84th year. Pre-deceased by his parents, Louis and Regina Slutnick, his sisters Tessie Gottlieb and Rose Lissauer, and his beloved wife of 50 years, Beatrice Weinberger Sutter. He leaves a son, Laurence, of Manhattan, neices Harriet Lituchy and Reese 
 Ben Raeburn, who published the complete works of Frank Lloyd Wright and a pantheon of authors from Irving Howe and Alfred Kazin to Robert Olen Butler and Oriana Fallaci, died on April 9 in a convalescent hospital in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 86. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, hi
 Harry Duncan, a skilled hand printer of books who was responsible for Robert Lowell's first volume of poetry and works by other well-known writers, died on Friday at his home in Omaha. He was 80. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Nancy. Mr. Duncan started operating a h
 Herbert Zipper, who as an inmate at Dachau started a secret orchestra and with a friend composed a song that became an anthem of the death camps, died on Monday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 92, said his niece, Lucy Horowitz. Mr. Zipper, whose life was 
 BENEDICT-James R., of Cranbury, NJ on April 5, 1997. Retired Senior Account Executive of Young & Rubicam Inc and Vice-President of Foote, Cone & Belding Inc. Survived by his wife, Virginia, sons Christopher and Rodman, daughter Janice, grandchildren Kathyrn and Peter, and two sisters Anne C
 BEYDA-Joseph. The American Institute for Psychoanalysis is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and benefactor, Joseph Beyda. As a member of the Institute's Advisory Board, he touched and inspired all with his enthusiasm, generosity of spirit and mission to do good in the world. He 
 BURKE-Rev. Edward J. C.M. The St. John's University Board of Trustees, together with the entire University community, notes with profound sorrow the passing of Rev. Edward J. Burke, C.M., thirteenth president of St. John's University. Under Father Burke's leadership, from 1961-65, St. John'
 COLLINS-Robert C., of New York, NY, died on April 21, 1997; born on October 21, 1910 in Rock Island, Illinois; raised in New Kensington, PA.; and graduated from Cornell University in 1931. In World War II he was a captain in the Army Air Corps and served as Group Ordinance Officer for the 4
 FENTON-John L. A retired Bankers Trust executive, Mr. Fenton died Sunday, April 20 after a long illness, in Key West, FL, where he had a winter home. He also maintained homes in New York City and East Hampton, NY. He was 83 years old. Mr. Fenton whose distinguished military career included 
 HABER-Leonard. Beloved husband of Janet. Devoted father of David, Jeffrey, Michael and Robert. Cherished father-in-law of Dana, Nancy and Lori and adored grandfather of William, Jessica, Eric, Briana, Joshua and Lindsay. Len was a wonderful, caring person always exhibiting his intelligence 
 HARRIS-Arthur E. On April 20, 1997. Dear husband of Faith Harris, beloved father of Matthew, Timothy and Benjamin, adoring grandfather of Katherine and Spencer, esteemed brother of Gerald. An award-winning art director at Young & Rubicam for 42 years, he was also a popular teacher at Pratt 
 HEILMAN-Frederic. The Board of Governors and membership of Ridgeway Country Club offer their deepest condolences to Kathryn Heilman and family upon the passing of Frederic Heilman, former member of the Board of Governors. Stanley Goldberg, President HEILMAN-Frederic. The Congregatio
 KELMAN-Norman, M.D. The Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, Inc of the Karen Horney Psychoanalytic Institute and Center, the executive council, and membership are greatly saddened by the passing of our dear friend, colleague, and mentor. Dr. Kelman, was a man of inspiring qua
 LOBEL-Irv. Founder and President of Lobel Chemical Corporation since its inception in 1954. With his brother, Sheldon, Irv created a chemical export company with global stature. He loved international business. His life demonstrates that honesty, hard work, and intelligence are essential to
 NABATOFF-Richard. Age 39. Beloved son of Robert and Joan. Devoted brother of Ross and Diane. Loving uncle to Andrew, Nathan and Alison. Cherished grandson of Jean Herman. Services Thursday, April 24, 11AM at Temple EmanuEl Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Contributions may be made to the Wharto
 POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr., April 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence Davis Polikoff. Adored father of Elisabeth Polikoff Doyle and her husband Peter, Benet Steven Polikoff and his wife Cynthia, Louise Polikoff Belsky and her husband Paul, Andrew Charles Frank and his wife Atsuko, and Thomas Leo
 ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Board of Trustees and staff of the New York Blood Center extend profound sympathy to our long time Trustee and founder, Laurance S. Rockefeller on the passing of his beloved wife, Mary French Rockefeller. We offer our sincere condolences to the entire family. Ho
 SCHNEIDER-Howard I. On April 20, 1997 at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Les and Michael. Cherished brother of Doris. Adored grandfather of Ben, Philip and Ross. Admired and loving uncle, cousin, nephew, inlaw and cherished friend to all whose life he touched. His
 Chester A. Gore, the founder, president and creative director of the Chester Gore Company, an advertising and marketing agency in Manhattan, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was kidney and respiratory failure
 Henry A. Mucci, the charismatic Army colonel who became an instant and enduring American war hero in 1945 when he led the raid that rescued 500 survivors of the fall of Corregidor and the Bataan Death March from a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines, died on Sunday at a hospital near hi
 Jean Louis, an Academy Award-winning designer who created some of the most memorable costumes  and fashions worn by Hollywood stars of the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Louis designed the strapless black satin gown in which 
 ALTMAN-Nathan. Our deepest sympathy to our brother and friend Howard, on the passing of his father Nathan. Our prayers are with him and his family. The Brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha Emory University       
 BLATTER-Murray. April 23, 1997. Survived by his loving wife, Rhoda and sons, Jay, Sheldon and Andrew, and his special daughter-inlaw, Joanne; grandsons, Josh and Jeremy; brothers, Hy and Harold. Services in Delray Beach, FL.       
 COLLINS-Robert C., of New York, NY, died on April 21, 1997; born on October 21, 1910 in Rock Island, Illinois; raised in New Kensington, PA.; and graduated from Cornell University in 1931. In World War II he was a captain in the Army Air Corps and served as Group Ordinance Officer for the 4
 GALE-Charles II Sr., on April 23, 1997 of Gwynedd PA. Husband of Mary (nee Hlebanja) Gale, father of Charles H. Gale, Jr. and his wife Barbara A. Gale of Doylestown and Nancy B. Gale Granese and her husband Claude B. Granese of Chalfont, grandfather of Charles H. Gale, V., Christine M. Gale
 GILMORE-Samuel. Passed away April 17, 1997, Palm Beach, Fla. Loving, devoted husband to the late Libbie Ritter Gilmore. Steadfast, caring friend to Tony, Ursula and devotees: Jane, Nancy, Jana, Fara, Ann Marie, Marian and Barbara. Former member of the City Athletic Club & Old Oaks Country C
 HERZOG-Chaim. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn with world Jewry the passing of one of the greatest coreligionists of the century, the sixth president of the State of Israel, Chaim Herzog. From his parents and his paternal and maternal grandparents he was blessed with a weal
 KELMAN-Norman, M.D. The Board of Directors and staff of the Karen Horney Clinic note with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. Dr. Kelman was a bright light, an esteemed clinician and one of the revered academicians. He will be sorely missed by all. Henry Paul, M.D., Exec Dir   
 LEVINE-Norman L. died March 2. A devoted friend, husband and father. He will always be remembered in those glowing terms. Norman Robbins, Louis Kaminsky       
 NABATOFF-Richard. Age 39. Beloved son of Robert and Joan. Devoted brother of Ross and Diane. Loving uncle to Andrew, Nathan and Alison. Cherished grandson of Jean Herman. Services Thursday, April 24, 11AM at Temple EmanuEl Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Contributions may be made to the Wharto
 POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr., April 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence Davis Polikoff. Adored father of Elisabeth Polikoff Doyle and her husband Peter, Benet Steven Polikoff and his wife Cynthia, Louise Polikoff Belsky and her husband Paul, Andrew Charles Frank and his wife Atsuko, and Thomas Leo
 SCHNEIDER-Howard I. On April 20, 1997 at the age of 75. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Les and Michael. Cherished brother of Doris. Adored grandfather of Ben, Philip and Ross. Admired and loving uncle, cousin, nephew, inlaw and cherished friend to all whose life he touched. His
 SNYDER-Jacob. Beloved husband of Faigal. Devoted father of Avi, Ron and Ilana. Dear brother of Martin and Janet. Loving grandfather of Max, Jessica, Rebecca, Jacqueline and Justin. Funeral service Thurs., 1 P.M., at Society for the Advancement of Judaism, 15 West 86 Street, NYC 10024. Donat
 TOMS-John L., 72, passed away April 19, 1997 after a brief battle with cancer. Born February 9, 1925 in Bronx, New York, he served with the U.S. Army during WWII in the Pacific Theater. He attended Iona College and worked for the NY Central R.R. For the last 36 years he worked for Everlast 
 VIRANY-Leslie. I will never discuss politics without thinking of Leslie. I will never have true friendship without thinking of Leslie. I will never see true love of family without thinking of Leslie. I will forever think of and remember Leslie. Mona and I grieve with his loving wife and ado
 Denis Compton, a charming and flamboyant athlete who was widely considered one of Britain's greatest cricket players,  died on Wednesday in Windsor, England. He was 78. The cause was complications after hip surgery, friends said. Throughout a cricketing career of just over 2
 BABSON-Donald P., of Wellesley, Massachusetts; on April 21, 1997. He was 73. Husband of the late Susan (Averill) Babson. He is survived by 5 children: Averill Babson & her husband Gregory E. Sohns of Darien, CT; Paul Talbot Babson, II of Needham, MA; James A. Babson and his wife Asoka Banda
 BALINT-George, M.D. 72., Physician, internist and anesthesiologist for 47 years, died at New York Hospital April 24, 1997. Dr. Balint devotedly cared for his more than eighty-thousand patients during his lifetime. As a young doctor he worked at the Peterffy Hospital in Budapest, Hungary and
 FEINSTEIN-Dr. Sherman C. On Tuesday, April 22, 1997. The American Society for Adolescent Psychiatry mourns the loss of its Past President Dr. Sherman C. Feinstein of Highlands Park, IL. Dr. Feinstein served for many years as Editor in Chief of the annual volume: Adolescent Psychiatry. More 
 FOX-A. Harold. Died peacefully April 24, 1997. Survived by sons David, Mark, and Myles; daughters-in-law Beth and Ellen, grandchildren Dean and wife Karen, Lauren and Lacey; sister Rhoda Zettel and nephew Martin. Devoted son of the late Sam and Sadie Fox. Born in Seattle, May 19, 1912, rais
 FRIEDMAN-Max, M.D. 91, on April 18, 1997, in Tamarac, FL. Director Emeritus OBS-GYN Wyckoff Hts Hospital. Born near Tarnopol, Austria. Attended Columbia University and L.I. Medical College, Brooklyn. Past President, Queens Gynecological Society; Life Fellow, Brooklyn Gyn. Society; Fellow, A
 GITENSTEIN-Aaron. We mourn the loss of a devoted and dear friend of the ''Hospital With a Heart'' who will forever be remembered with great affection. As a Golden Founder of the hospital & a benefactor of the Jesselson Heart Center and Woman and Infant Center, his generosity and kindness ha
 HERMAN-Frank. We mourn the loss of our beloved mechitin and devoted friend. Our hearts go out to his wife, Marta and family. Annette, Irving Forman, Family       
 HERZOG-Chaim. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Chaim Herzog, sixth President of the State of Israel, Ambassador to the United Nations, head of the Israeli Military Intelligence and General in the Israel Army, who not only lived through a historic period in world history-but helped t
 KERST-Richard Nevin, age 83, of Katonah, N.Y., passed away on April 22, 1997. He was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin. Mr. Kerst served as a Lieutenant in the Navy aboard the USS Phoenix in the Pacific Theatre during World War II. He was associated with the Columbia Presbyterian Me
 POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr. The Lexington School for the Deaf and Center for Deafness is deeply saddened by the passing of Benet Polikoff, Jr. as a longterm member of the Board of Trustees. He offered wisdom and guidance to all associated with the Lexington Community. We extend our deepest sympathy
 SNYDER-Jacob M. The Directors and Staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York records with sorrow the death of Jack Snyder, Honorary Trustee and former Administrator of the BJE. May Faigel and his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Sch
 TARR-Sidney. April 24, 1997. Survived by loving wife Annette. Beloved daughter Susan and son-inlaw Hans and his stepchildren Mark and Wendy. Services were private.       
 TROTZKY-Lewis A. On Apr. 24, 1997. Formerly of Forty-Fort, PA and Bear Creek, PA where he ran Nelson Mfg Co. and was active in the Wilkes-Barre Jewish community. Retired to NY where he volunteered at the Legal Aid Society and AARP. Survived by his wife Jean, daughters Claire Dankoff, Katie 
 Sam Moskowitz, an unlikely scholar widely regarded as the world's foremost authority on science fiction and by far its most devoted fan, died on April 15 at a hospital near his home in Newark. He was 76 and the author or editor of 62 books. His wife, Dr. Christine Haycock, said the 
 Abe Feder, who in a lifetime devoted to the art of illumination virtually created the field of theatrical lighting design and was also a seminal figure in architectural lighting, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. The name of Mr. Feder's company is ''Lighting by F
 BALINT-George, M.D. The Department of Anesthesiology of The Mount Sinai Medical Center notes with regret the passing of George Balint, M.D. Dr. Balint was a dedicated physician, a scholar and a gentleman. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Maria. Joel A. Kaplan, M.D. Raymond Mille
 BALLON-Frederick E.M. Prominent attorney. On April 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Sydell (Swergin). Loving brother of Rhita Behrman. Devoted father of Lois Ballon and Geraldine Lipshie. Adoring grandfather and great grandfather. Servivces to be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue a
 DEFEO-Philip L. On April 25, 1997 after a long illness. Dearest husband of Genevieve B. (McTague/ Carr). Beloved son of the late Philip L. and Anna K. (Schlott). Respected and beloved uncle, friend and benefactor to Teresa M. McTague and Philip Stahlman and their family and Thomas J. McTagu
 FEDER-Abe H. On April 24, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Ceil Feder. Loving brother of Theodore Feder and the late Sara Feder Keyfitz and the late Martha Tanner. Loving uncle of Beverly Widder, June Jaffee, Alan Tanner, Dr. Eugene Feder, Ann Pomerantz, Joan Kelman and Shulamet Halperin. 
 RABIN-William M. On Friday, April 25, 1997. Cherished husband of Frances Rabin. Devoted father of two, grandfather of seven, and great-grandfather of 3. Inventor of the modern ice cream sandwich, he was credited with inventing the first ice cream sandwich machine, which led to the populariz
 ROFFE-Hyman. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth, his adoring children, Ken and Val, Andrew and Anna, Barbara and Chuck Harvey and grandchildren Peter, Michael, Sarah, Lucas, Amanda Paige, Matthew Henry and Seth. Also survived by his sisters, Gladys an
 SOLOMON-Martin W. Of Jamaica, NY on Friday, April 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Lillian (nee Glicksman). Devoted father of Mark and Howard and his wife Maya. Cherished grandfather of Ellen, Marisa, Adam and Heather. Dear brother of Alfred and his wife Alice and Herbert and his wife, Judy. ''
 TULLEY-Harriett (nee Weinstein). April 23, 1997. 82 years old. Beloved wife of Louis Tulley, devoted mother of Kate & Ken Iscol. Loving step-mother of Jill Rick and caring mother-in-law of Jill. Adored grandmother of Michael, James and Valerie Hepner and Zachary and Kiva Iscol. Loving siste
 Pat Paulsen, the mournful-looking comedian who ran five tongue-in-cheek races for the Presidency, died yesterday in Tijuana, Mexico. He was 69 and lived in Tujunga, Calif. The Associated Press reported that he had been receiving alternative treatment in Mexico for colon and brain ca
 Bernard Vonnegut,Bernard Vonnegut, a physicist and one of two researchers who first figured out how to wring more raindrops from cloud cover for the croplands below, died on Friday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 82 and lived in Albany. The cause was cancer, said his broth
 Dennis Patrick Cantwell, a child psychiatrist known for his work with developmental disorders and the classification of disease, died on April 14 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 58. The cause was complications from heart disease, said William Gorin, his administrative a
 Eugene M. Stoner, who developed America's classic assault rifle, the M-16, while tinkering at night in his garage, died on Thursday at his home in Palm City, Fla. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the family said. While he had no formal engineering ed
 BALLON-Frederick E.M. Prominent attorney. On April 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Sydell (Swergin). Loving brother of Rhita Behrman. Devoted father of Lois Ballon and Geraldine Lipshie. Adoring grandfather and great grandfather. Servivces to be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue a
 BEYDA-Joseph D. Of all that we deem valuable accumulated over a lifetime, one of the most precious is a true friend. Joseph D. Beyda (A''H) was a friend, mentor, problem-solver and benefactor to all who knew him. His vision, wisdom and generosity were far reaching within and beyond our orga
 DeJOY-Gary. Born June 1, 1958. Died of complications from AIDS, April 25, 1997, in Miami, FL. Beloved life partner of Paul Kevin Cline. Beloved son of Joseph C. and the late Edna White DeJoy. Beloved brother and friend to Michael J., Joanne and Robert C. DeJoy. Beloved of friends in New Yor
 FEDER-Henry, of West Chester, PA, died on April 20, 1997. My beloved brother, a devoted husband; the kind, generous best friend of all his family. Loved by all who knew him. Sylvia Kohn       
 FOX-A. Harold. Died peacefully April 24, 1997. Survived by sons David, Mark, and Myles; daughters-in-law Beth and Ellen, grandchildren Dean and wife Karen, Lauren and Lacey; sister Rhoda Zettel and nephew Martin. Devoted son of the late Sam and Sadie Fox. Born in Seattle, May 19, 1912, rais
 JOHNSON-Kathleen N. (nee Murphy) of Concord, MA, formerly of Brooklyn, NY on April 25, 1997. Wife of the late John B. Johnson, Jr. Beloved sister of Dr. Frank C. Murphy of Concord, MA, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Mother of John B. and his wife, Andrea of Wellesley Hills, MA, Frank C. of Vienn
 KERST-Richard N. The Trustees of the Heckscher Foundation for Children mourn the passing of their esteemed Board Member Richard N. Kerst. His compassion for children will long be remembered. Trustees Heckscher Foundation       
 KHAN-Paul, suddenly, April 21, 1997. Husband and best friend of Grace Adams Khan. Born in Vienna, Austria, November 1923, he was President of Regu-Tech Associates in Mamaroneck, NY, a consulting firm in food safety, quality assurance and regulation. He is survived by his wife of New Rochell
 KOWLESSAR-O. Dhodanand. On April 19, 1997, of Bryn Mawr, PA. Beloved husband of Muriel and devoted father of Indrani. A memorial gathering will take place on Tuesday, May 27, at 2 PM, at Jefferson Medical College, 1120 Locust St., Philadelphia, PA. Contributions in recognition of his abidin
 LESTER-Irving A. Beloved husband of Gail. Loving father of Andrew (Leslie) and Mitchell (Madelon). Adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Aaron, Emily and Eric. Devoted brother of Lenore Marcus. His wit and warmth made him a favorite among family and friends. He was a man who cared passionately ab
 LORCH-Joseph. Age 91. Passed away on April 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of Gloria Nimetz, Leonard Lorch and Evelyn Sabin. Adored grandfather of Alexandra, Lloyd, Jennifer and Michael. Cherished fatherin-law of Matthew and Jeffrey. Funeral services to be held at Temple
 MARON-Irving. Beloved husband of Jeanne; loving father of Judy and Jeffrey; loving father-in-law of Willa and Harold; adored grandfather of Karen, Gabriel and Asa. A graduate of Cornell and Columbia Law School, he was an attorney for 67 years. In past years, he was counsel for Mosbacher Pro
 MAURER-Milton. Beloved brother of Ely and Beatrice and George Carver. Beloved uncle of twelve nieces and nephews who will always remember him as a loving and caring uncle. MAURER-Milton. Devoted lifelong friend, never to be forgotten. Shirley and Joe Sperber Florence and Abe Apar   
 SHABLESKI-David S. Died on April 10 in Toms River, NJ. Born in Orange, he was a 1962 graduate of Seton Hall University before moving to Lavallette, NJ where he was a Councilman from 1977 to 1979. He died shortly after filing for the June primary. Dave was the President of Advanced Publishin
 STEVENS-Rick. On April 18, 1997, after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Mary, son of Sylvia and Milton, brother of Nancy and Bob, nephew of Joe Kramer, uncle of Raphael. He also leaves many devoted friends. A memorial service will be held in Sante Fe, NM, on May 16. Donation
 Thomas H. D. Mahoney, an elder statesman of Massachusetts and world-traveling advocate for the elderly, died on Monday at Stanford Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. He was on the way home from Seoul, South Korea, after addressing the 97th co
 Joey Faye, the last of the legendary burlesque comics and among the few to make a seamless transition to legitimate theater, movies, television and commercials, died early on Saturday at the Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 87. In a 65-year career, Mr. Faye played a second ban
 John Joseph Gunther, a longtime lobbyist for urban dwellers and big-town city halls across the country, died on April 14 in a hospital near Algarve, Portugal, where he had a vacation home. He was 71 and lived in Sun Valley, Idaho, having moved there permanently from Washington in retirement
 Ned A. Ostenso, a geophysicist who was assistant administrator of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research in Washington, died on April 13 at a Washington hospital. He was 66 and had lived in Washington. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Grace Laudon Ostenso.       
 DEITCH-Morton L. On April 26, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Marion, Frances and Helen. Loving father of Kenneth. Grandfather of David and Michael and stepfather of Nance R. Turner. Devoted brother of the late Edwin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Tue
 FENSTERSTOCK-Howard. Age 74, of Mt. Vernon, died April 26, 1997. Beloved husband of Marianne, adored father of Martin and Laura. Cherished friend of all whose lives he touched. WW II vet, member of Sinai Temple and Harness Riders Association. Memorial service was at Riverside Memorial Chape
 ISAACS-Lewis M., Jr. Died April 26, 1997, 89 years old. Leaves loved daughter, Carol. His loving soul is more immortal than the stars and this will shine in our hearts forever. Donations can be made in his name to Stanley M. Isaacs, Neighborhood Houses, 415 East 93rd Street, NYC 10128      
 SCHWEITZER-Evan, L., M.D. 93, physician, died at New York Hospital April 26, 1997. Erzsi, beloved wife of 60 years, nephews and nieces are mourning him. Memorial service will be announced later.       
 FOSS-Mortimer M. April 28, 1897 to April 21, 1989. On the 100th anniversary of his birth, remembered with love and longing as he is every day of our lives. The Family       
 Peng Zhen, one of China's foremost hard-line  leaders, died on Saturday at the age of 95. Best known as the longtime Mayor of Beijing who was the first prominent victim of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, Mr. Peng spent 12 years in internal exile before re-emerging to help codify an
 Lewis M. Isaacs Jr., a prominent New York lawyer known for his expertise in housing law and co-op conversions, died on Saturday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. A resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 89. He suffered a long illness, said Carol H. Isaacs, hi
 BALLON-Frederick E. M. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 625 Park Avenue and Wallach Management Company mourn the loss of our long time resident and member of the Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 CARR-Stephen Paul, of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Edgewater, NJ, on Sunday, April 27, 1997, beloved husband of Kat (nee Farley). Stephen was an electrical engineer and was employed by Pomalee Electric Company in New York City. He was a member of the National Guard. Funeral services will be he
 CASRIEL-Carol, on April 27, after a courageous 29 year battle with Parkinsons disease. Beloved husband of 42 years of Tamara (nee Rippner Casriel). Darling father of Laurie Casriel, Cathy Gyory, and Eric Casriel. Esteemed father-inlaw of Andrew Gyory. Adored grandfather (Papa Carl) of Madel
 DEITCH-Morton L. On April 26, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Marion, Frances and Helen. Loving father of Kenneth. Grandfather of David and Michael and stepfather of Nance R. Turner. Devoted brother of the late Edwin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Tue
 DIETZ-Lew, 90, in Rockport, Maine April 26, 1997. Best known as the author along with Harry Goodridge of ''A Seal Called Andre''. Lew wrote twenty books and hundreds of magazine pieces, almost all of them drawn from Maine life in a sixty year writing career. His wife Denny Winters, a noted 
 DULKA-Michael. Age 44. On April 26, 1997. Partner of Peter Jen for 13 fabulous years. Son of Anne and the late Joseph, of Milwaukee, WI. Michael was the Map Librarian and Collections Development Librarian at the United Nations and a playwright. His wit and creativity will be missed by all w
 FRIEDLIEB-Morton J. Of Escondido, CA. and Great Barrington, MA., died suddenly on April 25, 1997. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Isabelle, daughters Ellen Mayer and Jane Greenman, sister Doris Sabo and five grandchildren. A graduate engineer of New York 
 KERST-Richard N. The Board of Trustees, administration and medical staff of The Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center mourn the loss of Richard Nevin Kerst, 83, former President of The Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia - Presbyterian Medical Center, who passed away April 
 KRONENBERG-Abe. Age 90. Of Tucson, AZ. Formerly of N.Y. Died April 26, 1997 after a long illness. Devoted brother of Mildred Caplin, William,Mordecai,and the late Harry. Beloved uncle and great uncle. A living legend in the field of motion picture publicity and promotion. During his long ca
 LORCH-Joseph. Age 91. Passed away on April 25, 1997. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of Gloria Nimetz, Leonard Lorch and Evelyn Sabin. Adored grandfather of Alexandra, Lloyd, Jennifer and Michael. Cherished fatherin-law of Matthew and Jeffrey. Funeral services to be held at Temple
 SCHLACHET-Stefan. With deep sorrow the Schlachet family acknowledges the death of Dr. Stefan Schlachet on April 27, 1997; a man of integrity and love for his family. Born in Poland on July 22, 1911, he earned his medical degree in Prague and devoted himself to his patients for more than six
 STALL-Herman, On April 27, 1997, of Palm Beach Fl. Formerly of Sc henectady, NY. Husband of Sonya (nee Alpert) Father of Dr. Jeffrey Stall and Lori and Susan Hess and Robert. Brother of Dr. Seymour Stall and Sylvia Bramley Wiland, also survived by 5 grandchildren Laura, David, Hilary Hess, 
 THATCHER-John. April 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Margaret. Father of Marilyn Riding. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Interment Scranton, PA. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to American Heart Assoc  
 WIND-Milton H., died of cancer on April 21, 1997, in Jupiter, FL, after a courageous fight. His family will miss him.       
 Richard Nevin Kerst, a former top administrator at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, died on April 22 at his daughter's home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Katonah, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Katrena K. Engstrom. Mr. Kerst spent 34 years a
 The Rev. Robert Laughlin Pierson, a retired Episcopal clergyman who worked for racial equality, women's rights and the welfare of migrant workers, died on April 13 at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. A resident of Columbiaville, N.Y., he was 71. The cause was apparently a heart atta
 Gabriel Figueroa Mateos, the cinematographer whose vivid panoramas of Mexican landscapes defined a look for Mexican films in their heyday and whose work for Hollywood studios won him international acclaim, died on Sunday. He was 90. Mr. Figueroa's camera captured the mural-like dese
 Mike Royko, the increasingly cantankerous voice for this city's little guys and working stiffs, whose newspaper column seemed as much a part of Chicago as the wind, died today at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He was 64. Mr. Royko had collapsed in his home in suburban Winnetka on A
 Norman Joseph Kelman, a Manhattan analyst who helped establish the New York school of psychoanalysis in the 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Kelman was associated with the American Institute for Psychoan
 CASRIEL-Carl, on April 27, after a courageous 29 year battle with Parkinsons disease. Beloved husband of 42 years of Tamara (nee Rippner Casriel). Darling father of Laurie Casriel, Cathy Gyory, and Eric Casriel. Esteemed father-inlaw of Andrew Gyory. Adored grandfather (Papa Carl) of Madele
 DEITCH-Morton L. On April 26, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Marion, Frances & Helen. Loving father of Kenneth. Grandfather of David and Michael and step-father of Nance R. Turner. Devoted brother of the late Edwin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Stree
 EISENBERG-Donald, We extend heartfelt condolences to the family of our friend and business associate. He will be missed by us all. Masterwear, Corp EISENBERG-Donald ''Eisenberg'', I'm going to miss you. My sincere condolences to the entire family. Norman Bernard       
 GOLDMAN-Howard. On April 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Dorothy Goldman. Loving father of Jim Goldman of Media Township, Pa., Jeff Goldman of Newton, Mass., Stepfather of Mark Polansky of NYC and Barbra Polansky of Pt. Reys, CA. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street,
 HARRINGTON-Denis J., of East Northport, New York. Native of Droumanassig, Kenmare, County Kerry, Ireland, on April 28, 1997 in his 72nd year. Korean War veteran recipient of the Bronze Star & Purple Heart. Retired paper handler with The New York Times for 45 years. Devoted husband of Bridge
 HERZOG-Chaim. We mourn the death of Israel's former President, Chaim Herzog, a strong supporter of our programs. He opened his heart and his home, giving our scholarship winners the best possible stage for their talents. Our sincere sympathy to the family. Vera Stern, President on behalf of
 SEVERANCE-Malcolm Douglas, of Rumson, NJ on April 27, 1997. Husband of Shirley Jones Fox Severance and the late Marie Winsor Appleby Severance. Father of Malcolm Bruce Severance and Stephanie S. McCarter. Stepfather of Gary E. Fox, Richard J. Fox and Meredith F. Wong. No visitation. Funeral
 SPRUNG-Jerome S. Suddenly and tragically on April 27. Beloved and cherished husband of Shirley, devoted father of Sara and Daniel, dear brother of Eileen Rogers, adoring grandfather of Juliet. Service 1 PM Sunday, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68 St. Interment private. Contributions 
