 Dr. Meyer Friedman, an originator of the theory linking heart attacks to impatient, angry ''Type A'' behavior, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 90, and until a few weeks before his death continued to do research at an institute that he had founded and that was named for him at the Mo
 Michael S. Modell, a co-president of the Modell's Sporting Goods chain and a philanthropist, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Hodgkin's disease, said his brother, Mitchell,
 BENACH-Henry. Passed away peacefully in his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. on April 29, 2001 surrounded by his loving family. He is survived by his wife Shirlee, his children Douglas and Sue, Michele and Wayne, his five grandchildren, Jay, Stacey, Melissa, Erin and Stuart, and his sister A
 BENGUALID-Rachel. The Board of Trustees of Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, an affiliate of Yeshiva University, is saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Sephardic community, beloved mother of our Trustee Henri Bengualid. YU Guardians and RIETS Fellows, he and
 BOOKSTAVER-Nelson D., D.D.S. Age 77 of Haworth died April 30, after a fierce battle with lymphoma. Beloved husband of Mimi (Synes), adored father of Bobbi (George Barunas) and Julie and the late Douglas. Cherished grandpa of Michelle and Lauren. Respected brother of Dr. Paul Bookstaver and 
 BRIESS-Roger C. On April 25. Beloved husband of Monica. Loving and devoted father of Colin and Craig. A true gentleman of tremendous integrity and honor. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him, especially, Zoroaster and Gobi. Friends may visit Tuesday, 4-8 PM at the family's
 DAVIS - Michael. Of Atlantic Beach, NY. Died peacefully at the age of 91 on April 30 after a long illness. Devoted and loving husband of Lillian. Beloved father of Dr. Barbara (Robert) Rosenberg and Robin (Martin) Mevorach. Dearest grandfather of Shari (Steven) Brown; Alexandra (Douglas) Wa
 DeCOSSE-Jerome J., MD. April 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Sheila Flynn DeCosse, loving father of Stephen and his wife Satomi Degami, Carole, David, Philip and his wife Aissata, and Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, NYC on 
 GOLDSTONE-Mortimer. It is with profound sorrow and a great sense of loss that we mourn the passing of our beloved partner, Mortimer Goldstone. He was a selfless, patient teacher and a caring human being whose professional abilities were extraordinary. His goodness and sense of humor will al
 LEWIS-George. Of New York City and Weston, Conn. Died on April 30, 2001, at the age of 93. Cherished husband of Joan Miller Lewis. Dearly loved father of Joanna Lewis Cole, and father-in-law of Jonathan R. Cole. Adored and adoring grandfather of Daniel L. Cole and Susanna (Nonnie) D.L. Cole
 MARBACH-Rt. Rev. Monsignor Joseph F. Age 83 died April 28th at his home in West Palm Beach, FL. He was a graduate of Regis High School and Holy Cross College and was ordained in 1943. Msgr. Marbach received his doctorate in Canon Law and served for a few years on the Church Court in New Yor
 MODELL-Michael S. Beloved husband of Abby. Adored father of Alex, Andrew and Ashley. Cherished son of Bill and Shelby Modell. Precious brother of Leslie Modell and Mitchell and Robin Modell. Adored uncle of Shawn, Melissa, Brittany and Ashley Modell. Devoted brother-in-law of Audrey and Irv
 POSMENTIER-Milton. Died at the age of 91 on April 30, 2001. Milton was a World War II veteran, and a retired architect of the N.Y.C. Housing Authority and the New York State Division of Housing. Loving husband of Sophie (nee Rauch). Devoted father of Loveleen and Erick Posmentier, and Lynn 
 SCHULDER-Jacob J. On April 30. Devoted husband of the late Hilda Beim Schulder for 62 years. Loving father of Diane and Bob Abrams, Sylvia and Bert Fisher, and Howard and Marilyn Schulder. Adoring grandfather of Robert & Amy Fisher, Jeffrey and Nicole Fisher, Amy & Patrick Arn, Marcy and An
 ZALKIND-Sheldon. The Psychology Department of Baruch College mourns the death of our beloved colleague and friend. We will miss his wisdom, humor and companionship       
 Billy Mitchell, a bebop tenor saxophone player who matured in the Detroit jazz scene of the 1950's and played in the bands of Woody Herman, Dizzy Gillespie and Count Basie, died on April 18 at his home in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, said Thelma Higgi
 Dr. Fred Gillett, who pioneered infrared astronomy, died on April 22 at a hospital in Seattle. Formerly of Tucson, Ariz., he was 64 and lived in Hilo, Hawaii. The cause was a rare bone-marrow disease, said the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in Tucson. Dr. Gillett was
 G. Willing Pepper, a Philadelphia civic leader and former president of the Scott Paper Company, died on April 21 at his home in Media, Pa. He was 92. Mr. Pepper, who was known as Wing, was a Philadelphia native. He attended the University of Pennsylvania and became treasurer and a d
 Happy Hairston, a starting forward for the Los Angeles Lakers team that ran off an unprecedented winning streak in the 1971-72 season on the way to the National Basketball Association championship, died early yesterday morning at U.C.L.A Medical Center. He was 58. Hairston, who play
 Dr. John S. O'Brien, who identified the gene that causes Tay-Sachs disease and helped develop screening tests for the rare but fatal disorder among infants, died on Feb. 1 at his home in San Diego. He was 66. The cause was a long illness related to postpolio complications, his famil
 ADELMAN-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Adelman, beloved mother of our esteemed member Stanley Adelman. Mr. Adelman is chair of the Data Processing Committee. Our deepest sympathies go to Stanley, h
 BEER-Anna. Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music of Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, affiliate of Yeshiva University, and the Belz School's affiliated Cantorial Council of America express their condolences to Cantor Bernard Beer, director of the School and executive vice pr
 BENGUALID-Rachel. The National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of Rachel Bengualid, beloved mother of Henri Bengualid and grandmother of Dr. Victoria Bengualid (and Gabriel) Goldstein, and Marc (and Beth) Bengualid, distinguished supporters of NJOP, who have played a cruci
 BRANOWER - Gerald. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 COHEN-Harold L. On April 30, 2001, at age 84. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Gary, Joseph and Martin, and fatherin-law of Naomi & Leah. Devoted brother of Lilyan Lippan. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan, Jason, Jeremy, Meir, Michelle and Lisa. His strength of character, humi
 DAVIS - Michael. Of Atlantic Beach, NY. Died peacefully at the age of 91 on April 30 after a long illness. Devoted and loving husband of Lillian. Beloved father of Dr. Barbara (Robert) Rosenberg and Robin (Martin) Mevorach. Dearest grandfather of Shari (Steven) Brown; Alexandra (Douglas) Wa
 DeCOSSE-Jerome J., MD. April 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Sheila Flynn DeCosse, loving father of Stephen and his wife Satomi Degami, Carole, David, Philip and his wife Aissata, and Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, NYC on 
 GOLDSTONE-Mortimer. It is with profound sorrow and a great sense of loss that we mourn the passing of our beloved partner, Mortimer Goldstone. He was a selfless, patient teacher and a caring human being whose professional abilities were extraordinary. His goodness and sense of humor will al
 GUSSAROFF-Arthur. The members and staff of Szold & Brandwen, P.C., mourn the passing of Arthur Gussaroff, dedicated attorney, valued colleague, dear friend. Admitted to bar in 1956, Arthur was a graduate of Columbia University (A.B., 1953) and Harvard Law School (J.D., 1956). A member of th
 KAHLE-Robert Vinton and his wife, Annabella Schafer Kahle of Caracas, Venezuela died in a private plane accident Saturday, April 28, 2001 in Middletown, RI. They lived in Newport, RI and Caracas Venezuela. Robert was born in Tampico, Mexico on December 6, 1932. Second brother of three, Robe
 KLEIN-Morton. The faculty and staff of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science of Columbia University deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Morton Klein. Professor Klein was one of the first scholars to apply the analytical methods of operations researc
 LEFKOWITZ-Rabbi, Dr. Isidore A. Yeshiva Rambam of Brooklyn, NY deeply regrets the passing of its founder, Rabbi, Dr. Isidore A. Lefkowitz, A''H, a Torah scholar, a noble and dedicated man who will be sorely missed. We offer condolences to his family.       
 LEWIS-George. Of New York City and Weston, Conn. Died on April 30, 2001, at the age of 93. Cherished husband of Joan Miller Lewis. Dearly loved father of Joanna Lewis Cole, and father-in-law of Jonathan R. Cole. Adored and adoring grandfather of Daniel L. Cole and Susanna (Nonnie) D.L. Cole
 MODELL-Michael. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Chapter, Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA), are devastated by the tragic and untimely loss of its beloved Board Member and friend, Michael S. Modell. Following in the tradition of his parents, CCFA's esteemed CoFounder
 RUDOLPH-Alexander, resident of Aventura, FL, died April 29, 2001, after a long illness. He was cherished by Marilyn, Ellen, Leonard, Laurie, Audrey, Justin and Shelby. Services New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY, May 2, 1 P.M.       
 SCHLEIN-Richard S. Of Southampton on April 30, 2001 at the age of 72. He is survived by his wife Betty, his children Carol & Craig, Alan and Michael and his grandchildren Margaret and Jamie. He was a sweet man with a caring heart and a spirit for life. He made this world a better place for 
 SCHULDER-Jacob. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jacob Schulder, a cherished friend and a generous supporter of our mission. He embraced philanthropic commitment to the Jewish community and was especially devoted to Israel. A bel
 Allan Hall, a British journalist whose musings over a long liquid lunch in 1972 led to the annual race to ship newly bottled Beaujolais Nouveau to Britain, and in later years around the world, died on April 26 in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk. He was 71. As a columnist for The Times of 
 Dr. Morton Klass, an anthropologist and a writer who focused on the people of South Asia and their descendants in the West Indies, died Saturday at his home in Washington Heights in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Klass taught for mor
 John B. Johnson, the editor and publisher of The Watertown Daily Times for the last 52 years, died yesterday at his home in Watertown, in northern New York. He was 84. The Daily Times, which covers Jefferson, St. Lawrence and Lewis Counties near the Canadian border, has a daily circ
 GOLDSTEIN-Martin S. (Moshe ben Michauel) died on May 2, 2001. Mr. Goldstein was a member of the first graduating class of the Yeshiva of Flatbush. He served in the Army Air Corps, was a sales executive and active in the Jewish Community. He is survived by his wife Ruth (nee Solomon), sons B
 GUSSAROFF-Arthur. The family of Arthur Gussaroff deeply mourns his passing on April 30th. Arthur was loved and cherished for his wit, enthusiasm, devotion, intelligence and most of all his kindness to those around him. He adored music, basketball, reading the Sunday Times and being in the c
 HOFFBERG-William Emannuel, 77. Engineer, President and coowner of AIW-Alton Iron Works, Windsor, Connecticut, a specialty military parts manufacturing company originally founded by his father in New York in 1930. Mr. Hoffberg was born in The Bronx, New York in 1923, graduated Brooklyn Polyt
 LIFSCHUTZ-Rabbi Emanuel L. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, age 93. He served pulpits in the New York area, Pennsylvania and Ottawa before assuming the position of community chaplain for the Jewish Chaplaincy Service of the Milwaukee Jewish Welfare Fund 
 MODELL-Michael. The Board of Directors and Members of the Association for a Better New York send heartfelt condolences to the entire Modell family. A devoted and enthusiastic member of ABNY, Michael's passing is a great loss to the city that he loved. ABNY will never forget his genuine supp
 RIZK-Khalil. The Harvard School of Public Health and the Harvard Aids Institute mourn the passing of longtime friend Khalil Rizk. As a charter member of the Institute's International Advisory Committee, Khalil was an early and generous supporter of Aids research at a time when little was kn
 RUBINSTEIN-Max G. Educator, at home on May 2, 2001, age 94. Dear husband of the late Sadie Rubinstein, father of Robert and Daniel, their wives Barbara and Janice, he also leaves six grandchildren and one great grandchild. Graduate of CCNY 1928 where he captained their basketball team under
 SORENSON-Dr. Wayne R. Age 74, of Mendham, New Jersey on May 1, 2001 at home. He was the developer of the commercial process for Nomex used in fire fighters' protective apparel, and for Kevlar used in bullet proof vests; as well as co-author of ''Preparative Methods of Polymer Chemistry''. H
 WALDSHAN-Sonia. Our hearts go out to our father and grandfather, Stanley, on the loss of his dearest mother, Sonia. Dr. Richard and Susan Zipperman, Randi and Stanley Klimberg, Cindy and Lawrence Grossman, Matthew, Hannah, Alix and Molly WALDSHAN-Sonia. Loving wife of the late Sam f
 PORTER-Norman. One year ago today Norman passed away. Always remembered and loved. His family and friends       
 Andy Phillip, the Hall of Fame guard who starred in the early 1940's for the University of Illinois basketball teams known as the Whiz Kids and then became a premier playmaker in the N.B.A., died last Saturday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. The cause was congestive 
 Billy Higgins, one of the best-loved and most-recorded drummers in postwar jazz, died yesterday at a hospital in Inglewood, Calif. He was 64 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was kidney and liver failure, said a friend, Dorothy Darr. Since the late 1950's, when he  made a 
 Heiko Oberman, a Luther biographer and scholar of the Reformation, the Renaissance and the late Middle Ages, died on April 22 in Tucson, where he had been Regents' professor of history at the University of Arizona since 1984. He was 70. The cause was melanoma, said the university's 
 ASCH-Virginia M. Of Short Hills, N.J. Beloved wife of Arthur, devoted mother of Cathy, Roger and his wife Leslie. Precious grandmother of Nicholas and Joshua. Services will be held at Temple Bnai Jeshurun, 1025 So. Orange Ave., Short Hills, Friday at 1 P.M. In lieu of flowers contributions 
 BIXBY-Jonathan. It is with deepest regret that we mourn the untimely passing of our friend and colleague. Our thoughts go out to his beloved companion Bryan Bantry & his family at this difficult time. They will be in our thoughts and in our prayers. Bob and Harvey Weinstein Co-Chairman and 
 GUERNSEY-Otis. The Council of The Dramatists Guild of America mourns the loss of our colleague, Otis Guernsey. Mr. Guernsey was a lifetime member of the Guild, as well as the founder of ''The Dramatists Guild Quarterly,'' which he served as original editor for thirty years. Our deepest symp
 MISHKIN-Eliezer A., Professor, of New York City died on May 2, 2001, at the age of 84. Loving husband of of Esther L. Mishkin. Beloved father of Jonathan I. Mishkin and Arnon A. Mishkin and Susan Fine. Devoted grandfather of Sarah, Naomi, Allison, Benjamin & Pamela Mishkin. Longtime profess
 PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend and Board Member, Richardson Pratt, Jr. With passion, commitment and good humor he served as a Trustee for more than eighteen years, ten of those years as the Fou
 PRINCE-Milton S. RADM NYNM. Died on May 1, 2001 in Brooklyn, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice Prince. He was the loving father of his sons Thomas and Andrew and father-in-law of Deborah and Shelley and grandfather of Brett, Kenny, Adam and Samantha. He was truly devoted to the serv
 RIZK-Khalil. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns the death of our good friend and Member of the Association, Khalil Rizk. His commitment to our company and his service on our Archives and Art Committee were invaluable. We extend our condolences to his partner, Pierre Durand, his famil
 ROOSEVELT-Theodore III. Of Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, PA. Died on Wednesday,,May 2, 2001. Husband of the late Anne Mason Babcock Roosevelt and is survived by his son Theodore Roosevelt IV, daughter-in-law Constance Rogers Roosevelt and grandson Theodore Roosevelt V. The service and interment wi
 ST. GEORGE-Andrew. Journalist and photographer, died May 2, 2001. Born Andras R. Szentgyorgyi in Budapest Hungary, he was 77. His pictures chronicling the Cuban Revolution, many published in Life Magazine, won the Overseas Press Club and Sigma Delta Chi awards in 1958. Beloved husband of Je
 Dr. Wesley C. Salmon, a philosopher of science who developed a theory in which he sought to show that improbable events could still be explained scientifically if their causes could be traced with sufficient clarity, died on April 22 in an automobile accident in Madison County, Ohio. He was
 Henry Benach, a retired chairman of the Starrett Corporation, the New York-based development and construction concern, died last Sunday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Benach, formerly of Scarsdale, N.Y., was an executive in the apparel industry when he joined
 John Scanlon, a public relations man who brought cunning, bare-knuckle tenacity and the nimbleness of a leprechaun to promoting the interests of high-profile clients, including Bob Kerrey in the current controversy over his actions in Vietnam, died yesterday at his Manhattan apartment. He w
 Otis L. Guernsey Jr., whose love affair with theater led to 36 years of chronicling its achievements as editor of the annual ''Best Plays'' volumes, died on Wednesday at his home in Woodstock, Vt. He was 82. Mr. Guernsey, a former film and theater critic and arts editor for The New 
 LEVITAS-Robert. On May 4, 2001. Loving husband of Laila. Devoted and cherished father of Andrew and Jessica. Services will be held at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87 St., NY on Sunday, May 6 at 11:00 AM. For additional information please call Plaza Jewish Community Chapel 212-769-4400.   
 LOEW-Franklin E. On May 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving uncle and great-uncle of many adoring nieces and nephews. Former president of Custanite Corporation. ''Gone but never forgotten''. Service Sunday 11:30am at ''The Riverside'' 76th & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory 
 MISHKIN-Eliezer A., Professor, of New York City died on May 2, 2001, at the age of 84. Loving husband of of Esther L. Mishkin. Beloved father of Jonathan I. Mishkin and Arnon A. Mishkin and Susan Fine. Devoted grandfather of Sarah, Naomi, Allison, Benjamin & Pamela Mishkin. Longtime profess
 PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend and Board Member, Richardson Pratt, Jr. With passion, commitment and good humor he served as a Trustee for more than eighteen years, ten of those years as the Fou
 Richardson Pratt Jr., a former president of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and chairman of Charles Pratt & Company, which was established in 1891 to oversee the Pratt family interests, died Tuesday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, 
 Theodore Roosevelt III, a grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt and former partner in a Philadelphia brokerage firm, died on Wednesday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86. A native New Yorker, Mr. Roosevelt was the last of four siblings. Their father, Theodore Jr., was a sold
 Boozoo Chavis, an accordionist, singer and bandleader who was a patriarch of Louisiana zydeco music, died yesterday after a heart attack and a stroke in Austin, Tex., said Jack Reich, his manager. He was 70 and lived in Lake Charles, La. During the 1990's, Mr. Chavis was widely ackn
 APPLEBY-Roger. On May 2, 2001. Beloved husband of Leigh Westbrook; dear father of Shaun, Amy, and Jed; loving grandfather of Travis, Ethan, and Matthew. Roger studied music at University of Michigan and toured internationally with the Robert Shaw Chorale. An advertising executive in Manhatt
 CORMAN-Dr. Harvey H. On April 28, 2001. Loving husband of Cis. Devoted father of Jeffrey, Stephen, Richard and his wife Patricia and Nina. Cherished grandfather of Kimberly, Lily, Olivia and William Harvey. Dear brother of Cid Corman, Sylvia Artenstein and the late Leonard Corman. Memorial 
 DOBBIS-Reuben. On April 28, 2001. Devoted husband of the late Phyllis, and father, grandfather and brother. He will be missed by daughter Karen, her husband Jeff; son Rick, his partner, Mary Ann; grandson Jason and wife Alison; grandson Justin, and fiancee Valerie; brother Max and sister-in
 FEINSCHREIBER-Selven F. Was a member and President of the first graduating class of Long Island University as well as President of the Alumni Association in later years. He received his JD from Brooklyn Law School in 1935 and became a member of the New York Bar in 1936. He had the distincti
 FINKEL-Edward. Son of Julius and Tamara Finkel, a pioneer in the development and manufacture of television antennas and electronic components, died Saturday morning at 4:45AM at the age of 81. Mr. Finkel, along with his father Julius and his six brothers, employed over one thousand people i
 HOWARD-Clarence. The New York City Marshals Association wishes to express its condolence to the family of City Marshal Clarence Howard. He was a devoted public servant and loyal member of this association. May his soul rest in peace. Alfred E. Locascio, President       
 JACKNESS-Nathan (Nat). On May 4, 2001, in his 89th year. Predeceased by his wife Claire. Devoted father of Carolyn Kaminester Rosof and Ted and his wife Aimee. Loving grandfather of Kimberly and David Kaminester. Dearest brother of Jack. Funeral private.       
 LADEN-Herman. On May 3, 2001, in his 101st year. Beloved husband of the late Elsie. Dear father of Donald and Robert (Donna) Laden. Cherished grandfather of Glenn, Wendy, Gary, and greatgrandfather of Samantha, Jared and Jake. Services were held Friday, May 4th.       
 LOEW-Franklin E. On May 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving uncle and great-uncle of many adoring nieces and nephews. Former president of Custanite Corporation. ''Gone but never forgotten''. Service Sunday 11:30am at ''The Riverside'' 76th & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory 
 MISHKIN-Eliezer A., Professor, of New York City died on May 2, 2001, at the age of 84. Loving husband of of Esther L. Mishkin. Beloved father of Jonathan I. Mishkin and Arnon A. Mishkin and Susan Fine. Devoted grandfather of Sarah, Naomi, Allison, Benjamin & Pamela Mishkin. Longtime profess
 PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend and Board Member, Richardson Pratt, Jr. With passion, commitment and good humor he served as a Trustee for more than eighteen years, ten of those years as the Fou
 RABB-Irving L. Peacefully at home, April 19, Pompano Beach, FL. He leaves his cherished wife Elaine M. (nee Lowenthal), a daughter, three sons and sister Ruth R. Dale. Memorial services and celebration of his life were held on his 87th birthday.       
 RAPAPORT-Frank H. May 2, 2001, in Buffalo, NY. Husband of the late Harriet (Flanders) Rapaport; Father of William J. (Mary) Rapaport of Buffalo, NY; Brother of the late Irving N. (Sonia) Rapaport, Rose (Morris) Teicher, Anne (Sidney) Serotte; Grandfather of Michael I. Rapaport; Step-Grandfa
 ROTHENBERG-Jacob (Jack). On May 5, age 79. Dr. Rothenberg was a long serving and much beloved professor of art at the City College of New York. He entered City College in 1938 as a 16 year old freshman, and after serving in World War II he returned to City College where he taught for the ne
 SCANLON-John. The Bay Street Theatre Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our dear friend and Board member, John Scanlon. His trusted intelligence, generosity and advice will be missed throughout the organization. We extend our heart felt sympathy to his wife, Julienne, and family. Ana Danie
 SWIRSKY-Philip (ret. Major reserves-US Army) died Friday, April 27, 2001 at the NJ Veterans Memorial Home, Menlo Park, NJ, from the effects of a stroke. Born in Lithuania during WWI, came to the US when he was 10 with his mother Sophie, to join his father Harry in Brooklyn, NY. Graduate fro
 WEST-Andrew D. Passed away suddenly of complications from diabetes on April 20, 2001 in Philadelphia, PA, while on tour as a keyboard musician with the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. Beloved son of Ormand and Patricia. Loving brother of Kristin. Andrew touched so many people wit
 Theodore Wilentz, who with his brother, Eli, owned the Eighth Street Bookshop, a bustling bibliophilic beehive in the 1950's and 60's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 86 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. When it opened in 1947, the fabled store -- ''three floors of b
 Boozoo Chavis, an accordionist, singer and bandleader who was a patriarch of Louisiana zydeco music, died Saturday in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack and then a stroke late last month, said Jack Reich, his manager. He was 70 and lived in Lake Charles, La. During the 199
 Clifton Keith Hillegass, who for 40 years published Cliffs Notes, the literary study guides that have saved millions of procrastinating students from academic ruin, died in his home in Lincoln, Neb., on Saturday. He was 83. He died of complications after a stroke in late April, his 
 Jo-Jo Moore, a perennial All-Star outfielder whose batting stroke and powerful arm helped the New York Giants capture three pennants in the 1930's, died April 1 in Bryan, Tex. He was 92. Known as the Gause Ghost, for his slender build and the central Texas town where he was born, Mo
 ARFFA-Stanley H. Beloved and devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother, friend and active member of many Jewish and other organizations. Born August 6, 1923, in Kerhonksen, New York. After serving in both World War II and the Korean War, he moved to New Haven, Connecticut, where he was 
 FAATH-Harry W. Jr. Of Ridgewood, NJ, on May 4, 2001, of cancer. Beloved husband of Margaret (Bettman). Devoted father of Sharon and Michael Fremer and Robert and Gayle Faath. Graduated Bogota, NJ High School. Attended Columbia University. A Marine Corps World War II fighter pilot, recalled 
 KOLODNY-Maxwell H. On May 3, 2001, at age 87, in Lake Worth, FL. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Robert, Joan Rossman and Richard and his wife Janine. Brother of Mildred Gottfried and Saul and Leonard. Loving grandfather of Linda, Lora, Lisa, Jonathan Rossman, Michelle and David
 MANDELBAUM-Gerard. On May 5, 2001, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Ellen T. Mandelbaum. Survived by his brother David Mann and the late Joseph Mann. Also survived by his sister-in-law Jean M. Touroff. Memorial services to be held Tuesday 11 AM, at Frank E. Campbell (The F
 PLINER-Charles. Our beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. Passed away on Saturday, May 5, 2001, at the age of 71. Charles was a loving father, devoted husband, and adoring grandfather, we will miss his special grace, quick wit, probing mind and warm devotion to his family and fr
 PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board and staff of the Near East Foundation mourn the death of our Director, supporter and friend. Jerry always brought wisdom,insight, humor and balanced common sense to the affairs of the Foundation. For NEF, he leaves a legacy of compassion for the hundreds of t
 RODRIGUEZ-Gaspar. The Riverdale Mental Health Association mourns the loss of Gaspar Rodriguez, esteemed member of our Board of Directors and Endowment Committee. We will remember him for his kindness, his wisdom and his generosity. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved family. Deborah Pines
 SO-Henry B., M.D. Beloved husband of Dr. Flora (Te). Devoted father of Henry Jr. and Gerald. On May 4, after a long and courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Dr. So would have been 67 on June 1. Dr. So received his medical degree cum laude from the University of Santo Tomas in 1959. He 
 STREETER-Henry S. Of Wenham, MA, May 4. 81 years, husband of Mary Ann (Dexter) Streeter. Father of Cornelia (Nina) V.R. Streeter of Topsfield, Natalie T. Streeter of Midway, UT, and Frank S. Streeter II of Lancaster. Survived by four grandchildren. Brother of Lilian S.L. Chance of Malvern, 
 KELLY-Paul. Remembered for years dedicated to financial services and the Village Light Opera and always for the love and music he brought to all our lives.       
 Aage B. Sorensen, a Danish-born Harvard sociologist who played an important role in developing new sociological theories of inequality, died on April 18 in Boston He was 59. He had been in bad health since falling on the ice near his home in Cambridge, Mass., in February last year, 
 Prof. Charles L. Black Jr., a leading authority on constitutional law who taught at Columbia and Yale Universities for 52 years and was a prominent voice in the national debates on presidential impeachments, desegregation, the death penalty and other issues, died at his home in Manhattan on
 John J. Lee Jr., a basketball star for Yale who became a corporate executive and a leading fund-raiser for his alma mater, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was kidney cancer, said his son, John J. Lee III of Larchmont. As a 6-foot-3-inch juni
 Morris Graves, an artist whose paintings of wounded birds and supernaturally radiant flowers combined the spirit of American Transcendentalism with Asian philosophy, and whose reclusive efforts to avoid what he called ''the machine-age noise of America'' were the stuff of legend, died on Sa
 BAXTER-Gus, 82, of Fairview, NJ, died on May 4th, 2001 of a heart attack. Survived by his wife, Susan, daughters, Roxanne, Victoria, Gail, and son, Gus, grandchildren, Carl, Peter and Victoria Cetera, Alexandra and George Mendrinos, Phaedra and Christopher Cella, Gus and Margaret Baxter.   
 BELL-Gordon Knox, Jr., 99, died May 4, 2001 in Raleigh, NC. Born in New York City 1902 to Gordon Knox and Marlan Mason Crafts Bell. Graduate Groton, Harvard, with a Masters from Columbia. Veteran of the 7th Regiment, member of S. Nicholas Society, Union Club, Society of Colonial Wars and Ho
 BLACK-Charles L., Jr. The Columbia Law School community mourns the passing of Professor Charles L. Black, Jr. Charles was one of the great legal figures of the second half of the 20th Century-an extraordinary academic and a tireless advocate for civil and constitutional rights. His talents 
 CORMAN-Harvey. A gifted physician who lives on in the patients he healed. Bunny Grossinger       
 GASTER-Richard Cory. Passed away on May 2, 2001. Devoted son, brother, uncle and friend. Richard was loved by all whom he met. ''Bugs'' to his friend, Ricky and Richie, to others. Richard was an unforgettable person-loved and adored by young and old. Richard is survived by his mother, Barba
 KAZIS-Rabbi Israel J. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague, age 90. After serving as a chaplain in the US Army during World War II, he assumed the pulpit of Congregation Mishkan Tefila in Boston until he became rabbi emeritus in 1976. During his tenure, Rabbi
 LEE-John J. Loving husband of Gayle K. Lee, and father of Jocelyn, Lauren, John and Roger. Adoring grandfather to Aidan, Jack, Austin, Simon and Isabelle. Loving brother to Robert Lee. Memorial service to be held at St. John's Church in Larchmont, on Friday, May 11, at 11 AM, with reception
 LEVITAS-Robert. Our beloved brother and uncle had so many outstanding qualities: an undying love for his family; an uncommon intelligence and drive (graduating first in his class from Fordham Law School and succeeding brilliantly as a lawyer and entrepreneur); and an exemplary character tha
 McCLINTOCK-Malcolm Scott of Northport, NY suddenly on May 6th, 2001 in his 70th year. Husband of Winifred Jolly. Father of Sara Louise McClintock and her husband John Dunne and Malcolm James McClintock and his wife Annie Herr. Devoted grandfather of Thomas Malcolm McClintock and James Donal
 MONTGOMERY-Wright a resident of Fairfield, Ct. for 50 yearsdied at the age of 74 May 5, 2001. He was a graduate of Colgate University and served in the Navy during WW II in the Pacific. His business career was devoted to the marine insurance industry, starting with the firm of Leighton K. M
 PRATT-Richardson, Jr. Board and staff of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Inc. mourn the loss of our Board member, friend and supporter, Richardson Pratt, Jr. He served on our Board for 29 years. We will miss his extraordinary leadership, generosity and unwavering commitment t
 SAIDLOWER-Esther. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member, Mendy Saidlower, and family on the loss of his beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Tzion and Yerushalayim. Joel Felderman, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 SCANLON-John. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, John Scanlon. A consummate professional, whose brilliance, experience and savvy stood him head and shoulders above his peers. John was a mentor and teacher to many, and an effective and tenacious advocate for his clients. 
 SCHIFFMILLER-Henry. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Marty Schiffmiller and family on the loss of his beloved father, Henry. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Tzion and Yerushalayim. Joel Felderman, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi 
 SINGMAN-Mollie. Of Delray Beach, Florida and New York City. Beloved mother, grandmother and sister passed away on May 6, 2001. She was a spectacular woman. SINGMAN-Mollie. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Mollie Singman, beloved m
 WESTERMAN-Edward. A beloved, gentle man whose beautiful smile revealed his warmth and kindness. Sleep in peace, dear friend and ''Uncle Ed.'' Betty Davis, Alyce and Scott Davis, Vicki and Jeffrey Gradinger       
 Dr. Arthur Walker, who shot innovative telescopes into space to give scientists a view of the Sun that they had never seen before and who spent a lifetime helping women and minority students find careers in science, died on April 29 at his home on the campus of Stanford University. He was 6
 Cecil R. Price, who as a deputy sheriff arrested three civil rights workers in Mississippi in 1964 and was eventually found guilty of delivering them into the hands of their killers, died on Sunday in Jackson, Miss. He was 63. The cause was a skull fracture that Mr. Price, a truck d
 APPEL-Morton J. Loving husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Janet and Lewis, dear brother-inlaw of Ann and Martin Rabinowitz & Gloria Appel, died peacefully at home having graciously finished his last set. The funeral is May 10 at noon, Riverside Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, 
 GITTENS-Josephine ''JO'' (nee Bokros). Of Port Washington, New York on May 8, 2001. Beloved wife of E. Donald. Loving mother of Barbara Gladding and her husband Sanford, David & his wife Maureen. Loving grandmother of Sanford & his wife Kristi, Jennifer, and John and his wife Annie. Dear gr
 KRESSEL-Herman A. (Lefty). 85. Died on May 5, 2001 in Buffalo, N.Y., his home after many years in Hewlett, N.Y. and St. Petersburg, FL. Mr. Kressel was born in NYC, 1915 and had a BS degree from Brooklyn College and a Master's Degree from NYU. He was a Master Plumber who became a vocational
 MERSON-Leo. On May 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Paula. Loving father of Michael, Mark & Melissa. Dear brother of Hy. Adoring grandfather of Jonathan, Erica, Dana & Zachary. Service Thursday 1:00 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue. MERSON-Leo. The Hebrew Home for 
 MOORE-Edward R. Of Beth Page, on May 6, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Adelaide. Loving father of Kathleen Bogle of Valley Stream and Bob Moore of Albany, New York. Cherished grandfather of James and Robert Bogle. Predeceased by brothers, James and John. Mr. Moore, originally from Lawren
 PLATT-John Arthur, 48. British author, broadcaster, Rock on Film curator, and expert on 60's psychedelic poster art. Died at home in NYC, May 7, 2001. Survived by his wife Marylou Capes, his sister Mary Simpson, both his parents, and all his loving friends. Goodbye party/wake/nonsectarian s
 SIMEONE-Margaret (Maggie). Age 87. On May 8, 2001. Daughter of the late George and Ellen McCravy. Sister of the late Frank, John & James McCravy. Beloved wife of Harry M. Simeone. Adored mother of Harry M. Simeone, Jr. and his wife Darlene, and Molly Stevenson. Loving grandmother of Gary Ed
 SNYDER-Shirley. On May 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence. Loving mother of Ted and his wife Beth. Grandmother of Aaron.       
 SUNA-Rabbi Isaac. The Yeshiva University family mourns the loss of a highly respected member of the faculty of its affiliated Marsha Stern Talmudical Academy/YUHS for Boys. For more than 40 years, he taught and inspired his students, guided their intellectual and spiritual growth, and nurtu
 WEISSBERG-Michael Robert. On May 7, 2001. Beloved son of Steven & the late Madalyn. Loving brother of Jonathan. Cherished grandson of Herbert and Ruth Weissberg, Al & Bernice Weiskopf. A published poet and contributor to the largest ''Poem of Peace''. Services Wednesday 1:15PM at ''The Rive
 Terry Ryan, an award-winning comedy writer, died on Saturday at his home in New York. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ryan began his career writing for the Fred Allen radio show in the late 1940's. After he switched to television, he b
 Dr. Dan Hanley, the chief physician of the United States Olympic team from 1964 through 1972 and a pioneer who helped develop Olympic drug-testing programs, died Sunday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 85. From 1946 until he retired in 1980, Dr. Hanley was the head physician fo
 Edwin Finckel, a composer, jazz pianist, conductor and musical educator, died on Monday in Madison, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Madison. Traversing musical genres, Mr. Finckel wrote more than 200 pieces for a variety of ensembles, including orchestral works, concertos, ballets, chor
 Morton Klein, a professor of industrial engineering at Columbia University who did pioneering work in the field of operations research, a discipline that applies mathematics to complex management problems, died on April 26 after collapsing in his office on campus. He was 75 and lived in Haw
 APPEL-Morton J. Loving husband of Elain e. Devoted father of Janet and Lewis, dear brother-inlaw of Ann and Mar tin Rabinowitz & Gloria Appel, died peacefully at home having graciously finished his last set. The funeral is May 10 at noon, Riverside Chapel, 21 W est Broad Street, Mount Verno
 BODTKE-Richard, 80. Died New Yor k City, May 3rd, 2001. Husband of Shirley, father of Christina Carlson, father-in-law of Raymond Carlson, grandfather of Julie, Suzanna, and Laura, brother of Ruth & Grace. Emeritus Professor of English, Adelphi University, author, poet. We mourn his loss. M
 FI ALKOFF-Samuel, 85 years old. On May 8, 2001. He began his career as a history teacher and went on to establish a thriving business, Ca min Laboratories. He attended City College of NY, but his true educatio n grew out of his extensive worldwide travels with his wife Rachel. Sa m is survi
 HAEMMERLI-Alfred (Fred) . Beloved husband of Alice and father of Justine, son of Ursula, brothe r of Peter Michael, Monique and Christine. A devoted member of the United Nations community who worked tirelessly & selflessly for the goo d of others. Faithful, funny and kind, he epitomized gra
 HUGHS-Robert Shawn. May 8, 2001. Belove d son of Eleanor and Arnold Hughs. Loving brother of Renee Somers, Gwynn e Blum and the late Richard Hughs. Devoted uncle to numerous nieces and nep hews. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him, especial ly his kitties Shawn and Maxine
 JACOBS-Dr. Joseph. American Friends of The Hebrew Uni versity is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear Board of Dir ectors Member and Guardian, Dr. Joseph Jacobs. A prominent dentist and tireless campaigner to improve Israel's dental care facilities , Joe was instrumental in the develo
 KATZMAN-Irving M. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Compan y, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Irving M. Katzman, the father of our esteemed partner, Stuart Katzman. The warmth, affection, co mpassion, love and understanding, so prominently displayed by Stua rt, his brother, sister
 KOPPEL-Richard U. On May 8, 2001 . Loving husband of Hannelore, devoted father of John (Rosa) and grandfather of Simon. Brother of Eva, Vera and Reynold. Funeral at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. on Thursday, May 10 at 12 noon . KOPPEL-Richard U. On May 8 2001, a
 LEVINE-Lee. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing o f our esteemed member Lee Levine. We extend our deepest condolen ces to his wife Carolyn and family. Peter J. Baum, President Ga il H. Tarlowe, Secretary       
 M ASCIA-John. Of Brooklyn, NY, May 6, 2001, of Lung Cancer aged 64. Beloved husband of Eleanor and father of Jennifer, Angela, Tina and Tony. A man who lived his life with vitality and grace with intelligence, wit and an incredible sense of humor. He had the nobilit y and strength to turn h
 SCANLON-John P. Concern Worldwide, the international reli ef organization, expresses its deepest regret at the death of our dear friend, humanitarian and patron. Our sincerest sympathy to his wife Jul ienne, family and friends. Our profound gratitude to John for his selfles s work helping t
 VANDAM-Theodore. Famed phil atelist and philatelic author died of leukemia May 1, 2001. Immigr ated to U.S. in 1937 and served in the 98th Infantry Division from 194 2 to 1946 in the Pacific. After retiring from the VanDam Rubber Comp any of New York, he devoted the rest of his life to phil
 WEISSBERG-Michael Robert. Beloved son of Steven an d the late Madalyn, loving brother of Jonathan, cherished grandson of Al and Bernice Weiskopf, longtime members of the Garment Center C ongregation, and Herbert and Ruth Weissberg. The Garment Center Con gregation extends its heartfelt symp
 Henry Schuman, a prominent oboist, conductor and teacher who founded and directed Our Bach Concerts, a popular series of midnight  performances at Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, sai
 L. Dean Brown, a World War II combat veteran who became a career diplomat and carried out tough assignments in the Middle East and elsewhere including organizing the airlift of Americans and friendly Vietnamese from Saigon, died on May 2 at a hospital in Washington. He was 80. Mr. B
 Lester Atwell, a novelist and short-story writer, died on April 30 at his home in Cary, N.C. He was 92. Born in Brooklyn, where he lived for more than eight decades, Mr. Atwell graduated from Fordham University in the Bronx and attended the Art Students League in Manhattan. He worke
 Nikos Giorgiades Sampson, president of Cyprus for eight days after a military coup in 1974 overthrew Archbishop Makarios and provoked a Turkish invasion that has divided the Mediterranean island to this day, died on May 9 in a clinic in Nicosia. He was 66. The cause was cancer, his 
 COHEN-Sam. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Robert Cohen, upon the loss of his father. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 DANA-Charles. The family of Charles A. Dana, Jr., of New Canaan, CT, announces with deep sorrow the loss of their husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather Wednesday night. We know that his generosity, his intrinsic goodness, and his warmth will be missed. But, we are much blessed f
 KATZMAN-Irving M. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, deeply mourn the passing of Irving M. Katzman, the father of our esteemed partner, Stuart Katzman. The warmth, affection, compassion, love and understanding, so prominently displayed by Stuart, his brother, sister, a
 LEE-John J. Loving husband of Gayle K. Lee, and father of Jocelyn, Lauren, John and Roger. Adoring grandfather to Aidan, Jack, Austin, Simon and Isabelle. Loving brother to Robert Lee. Memorial service to be held at St. John's Church in Larchmont, on Friday, May 11, at 11 AM, with reception
 LEVINE-Lee R. Loving husband to Carolyn for 57 years. Father of Bill and Ira. Father-inlaw of Carol & Betsy. Grandfather of Rose and Ruby. Brother of Howard. Wonderful friend, beloved by everyone who knew him. Courageous in trying times, good company always-good bye.       
 MASSEY-James R. Born on September 28, 1953. Died May 5, 2001. Devoted, loving and cherished son, brother, nephew, friend and neighbor. He is survived by his mother Elsie, sisters Evelyn, Margaret and Dale. Brother Jerry. Employee of SMS Health Services Corp. A memorial service will be held 
 McDOUGAL-Walter A. (Bub). Age 79, of Garden City on May 10, 2001 after a brief illness. He was the former Chairman, President and CEO of Richmond Hill Savings Bank. Beloved husband of the late Phyllis O'Connor McDougal & the late Dolores McDougal. Loving father to Stephen, Carol, Walter, Do
 SCHUMAN-Henry. On May 9, 2001. Beloved father of Kathy. Devoted companion of Suzette Jacobs and daughter Hayley. His thoughtful caring, generosity and humor are irreplaceable. His loss is felt by his extended family of friends around the world. Memorial service planned for a later date.    
 Theodore Van Dam, a philatelic writer and historian of the handling of mail in wartime, died in Los Angeles on May 1. He was 84. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Van Dam's special interests led him to produce several books on postal markings used by the American 
 Allan E. Sloane, who wrote socially conscious dramas for radio and television that won many awards, died on April 29 at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 86. Critics particularly praised his television and radio scripts involving children with physical or mental  handicaps.      
 Charles A. Dana Jr., a philanthropist of diverse interests, died on Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in New York City. He was 86. Mr. Dana was struck by a vehicle at Madison Avenue and 52nd Street in Manhattan on May 8, said his son, Charles A. Dana III. As a founding m
 David Jamieson, who as a British Army captain received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for his role in repulsing a German attack during the breakout from the D-Day invasion beaches in August 1944, died on May 5. He was 80. ''I'm a very nervous
 Dr. Kenneth Mark Colby, a psychiatrist known for his work with artificial intelligence, died on April 20 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 81. Dr. Colby, a founder and chairman of Malibu Artifactual Intelligence Works, a software company, was an emeritus professor of psychiatry a
 BRUGLI-Rev. Angelo F. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor Emeritus of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church, 7201 15th Avenue, Brooklyn on May 9. Reposing at Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish Chapel on Saturday, May 12 from 2:00-5:00 and 7:00-9:30 PM, and Sunday, May 13 from 1:00-5:
 BURKOFF-Stanley Thomas. Age 80. A resident of Highland Beach, Florida and retired President of W.B. Doner & Company, an international advertising agency with its principal office in Detroit, MI., died at home on May 10, 2001. Prior to joining W.B. Doner & Company as Creative Director in 196
 DANA-Charles A., Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Alcoholism Council of New York deeply regret the sudden passing of Charles A. Dana Jr. Charlie served on our board for many years as President and most recently as President Emeritus. His generous support and active participation 
 FELD-Ross. Age 53, passed away May 9, 2001, in Cincinnati, Ohio. Beloved husband of Dr. Ellen W. Feld of Cincinnati, OH. Devoted father of Aaron and Zachery Feld. Loving son of Lillian and Herman Feld. Dear brother of Adam Feld and the late Susan Feld. Services were held in Cincinnati, OH, 
 KROGSTAD-John, a resident of Bayonet Point, FL, died recently at the Tulane Rehabilitation Center in New Orleans at the age of 95. He was born in Hovin, Norway, on January 10, 1906, and emigrated to Seattle in 1917. He graduated from Renton High School in Seattle in 1925 and from the Univer
 LEVINE-Lee R. Loving husband to Carolyn for 57 years. Father of Bill and Ira. Father-inlaw of Carol & Betsy. Grandfather of Rose and Ruby. Brother of Howard. Wonderful friend, beloved by everyone who knew him. Courageous in trying times, good company always-good bye.       
 SCHUMAN-Henry. The Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the loss of distinguished faculty member Henry Schuman. A renowned member of our woodwind faculty since 1970, his wisdom, vigor and compassion enriched the lives of his many students. As a colleague and friend, he will be sorely mi
 SILVONEN-Olavi. Formerly of Garden City, NY, on May 10, 2001 in Lynnwood, WA. Former Vice President of The Irving Trust Co. He is survived by his daughter Ellen of Edmonds, WA, two grandsons Dick and David Tolmie and three great-grandchildren.       
 BORTNER-Allen, 83. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away on May 6th, 2001. Formerly of Searingtown, LI, NY. Husband of the late Julia Bortner. He is survived by his loving children, Kenneth, Eileen and Steven, 7 cherished grandchildren and 2 devoted sisters. Mr. Bortner was President of the Charle
 BRUNO-Thomas A. Of Los Angeles passed away on April 8, 2001 at the age of 49 after a brief illness-16 years. He is survived by his parents, his beloved sister Anne, and cherished nephews Christopher and Kevin. He also leaves behind his best friend and life partner, Kevin Ritter. Memorial ar
 DANA-Charles A. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Charles A. Dana, a most altruistic friend and benefactor. The generosity that he has shown to the Hospital for more than 20 years has enabled u
 GREY-Zulma (nee) Steele. On May 11, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William Alexander Grey. Loving mother of William Frederic Grey & his wife Judith. Dear sister of Robert G. Steele. Cherished grandmother of Emily Rachel and James Christopher Grey. Also survived by several nieces and nephews
 HANDLERS-Lennie. 4/15/20-4/4/ 01. Special husband and beloved father of Lynne Robin and Sherry Diane. May he rest.       
 HUNT-Robert E. Great grandson of Walter A. Hunt, the inventor of the Safety Pin, Robert E. Hunt, 91, of Summit, N.J. died on May 9, 2001. During the second World War, his company, National Foil, converted from an aluminum foil packaging company to create radar jamming foil to support the tr
 MARBURG-Walter. Of Fort Lee, N.J. Beloved husband of Gerda. Loving father of Annette Berg, Mark and Susan Berg. Devoted grandfather of Jeffrey and Robert Berg. He was the Founder and President of The New Synagogue of Fort Lee. His loss will be felt by his extended family and friends from ar
 PORTER-Charles. The members of Thurm & Heller, LLP wish to express their heartfelt sympathy to their partner, Kevin D. Porter, on the passing of his beloved father.       
 REAM-Dr. Charles R. of Tewksbury, N.J. On April 8th 2001 at The Medical Center At Princeton, N.J. at age 81. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. he was a physician for many years and educator and practitioner in numerous hospitals and universities. Son of the late Royal and Ethyl Ream and husband of the
 RESNICK-Mortimer. On May 11, 2001. Loving husband of the late Natalie Sisskin Resnick. Cherished friend of Arlyne Ettinger. Devoted father of Ann and Mel, Robert and Valeria, Carol and Howard. Adoring grandfather of Adam, Michelle, Jodi, Alexis, Brett, Jessica and Michael. He lived for his 
 WILSON-Robert Dickerson. Born May 26, 1925 in Bronxville, N.Y. and died March 22, 2001 in Greenwich, CT. He was General Counsel of U.S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Fund and Secretary of the Pension Fund Investment Committee. He was a Director of Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Corp. of N.Y. an
 Perry Como, a small-town barber from Pennsylvania whose rich voice and easy manner made him one of the nation's most popular singers and entertainers in the decades after World War II, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was six days short of his 89th birthday.      
 Sebastian Snow, an eccentric English explorer who helped confirm the source of the Amazon River as he bumbled about vast portions of South America singing the ''Eton Boating Song'' with somewhat perplexing frequency, died on April 20. He was 72. Christian Bonington, a widely travele
 Artemas Holmes Crimmins, former chairman and president of Thomas Crimmins Contracting, once a prominent builder in the New York City area, died on April 21 at a hospital in Boulder, Colo. He was 92 and had homes in Longmont, Colo., and Boca Grande, Fla. He retired in 1974 after 42 y
 Jacques Lowe, whose exhaustive fly-on-the-wall photographs of the Kennedy family are a bittersweet elegy to a period of presidential history that has come to be known as Camelot, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Judy Twersky, a family 
 Jonathan Bixby, a costume designer in theater and television, died on April 29 at the Cabrini Hospice in New York City. He was 41. The cause was colon cancer, said Steven Padla, a spokesman for the Drama Dept., a theater company of which Mr. Bixby was a founding member. A Pe
 DANA-Charles A., Jr. We deeply regret the sudden passing of Charles A. Dana, Jr. He was a longtime supporter and Board member of Just One Break. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. We extend our condolences and affection to his wife Norma. The Staff and Board of Just One Break       
 ENGELMAN-Gus. Former reporter for WABC Radio and the NY Journal American, adjunct professor at NYU, former president of the New York Press Club. The family of Gus Engelman deeply mourns his passing on May 7. His intelligence, wit, enthusiasm for life and love of knowledge will be greatly mi
 FRIED-Jules. Devoted husband, father, brother, grandfather and friend. Survived by his loving wife, Judith Alperin, daughter Jeri, sister Carol and two grandchildren. This kind and gentle man will be deeply missed by all. Services Monday, May 14, 11 AM, Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2n
 GIBSON-Dr. Weldon B. Passed away on May 6 in his home on the Stanford University campus. A founding executive of SRI International, a non-profit research institute formerly known as ''Stanford Research Institute'', Dr. Gibson was 84 years old and is survived in loving memory by his wife Hel
 LEVIN-Maurice L. Died on May 12, 2001, at age 83. Known as ''The Honorary Mayor of Atlantic Avenue.'' He is mourned by his children Jeffrey and Denise, his grandchildren and his family. Services Monday, May 14, 2001, 3 PM at the Wellwood Cemetery in Pinelawn, NY.       
 MILTENBERGER-Eugene F. Age 73 of Fair Haven, NJ, on May 12, 2001. Born in Red Bank, NJ, and a lifelong resident of the area. Mr. Miltenberger owned the Fair Haven Construction Company, Monmouth County, NJ. He was a Korean Conflict Veteran and served in the Seabees. He was a graduate of Mont
 RESNICK-Mortimer. On May 11, 2001. Loving husband of the late Natalie Sisskin Resnick. Cherished friend of Arlyne Ettinger. Devoted father of Ann and Mel, Robert and Valeria, Carol and Howard. Adoring grandfather of Adam, Michelle, Jodi, Alexis, Brett, Jessica and Michael. He lived for his 
 SLUTZKY-Oleg (Alec). Age 84, of Township of Washington, NJ on Friday, May 11, 2001. Husband of Olga Slutzky (nee Washnik). Father of Valentina Mescolotto, Gregory, Dennis and Timothy Slutzky. Brother of Larry and Walter Slutzky. Grandfather of seven. Son of Dimitry, a well known professor a
 SUSSMAN-Ralph M. M.D. Former Chairman of the Department of Cardiology at Doctor's Hospital. He served the Manhattan community as a caring physician for 60 years. Beloved husband of Gertrude and the late Frances Goldberg. Devoted father of Elizabeth Anne Socolow and the late Victoria Sussman
 Perry Como, a small-town barber from Pennsylvania whose rich voice and easy manner made him one of the nation's most popular singers and entertainers in the decades after World War II, died in his sleep at his home in Jupiter, Fla., on Saturday. He was six days short of his 89th birthday.  
 R.K. Narayan, the literary chronicler of small-town life in South India and one of the first Indians writing in English to achieve international acclaim, died yesterday in Madras, India. He was 94. Long before writers of the subcontinent broke free of the passions and ideologies of 
 Aleksei A. Tupolev, an aircraft designer whose work included some of Russia's sturdiest passenger planes and the Soviet Union's ill-fated supersonic airliner, died on Saturday, officials of the company OAO Tupolev said. Mr. Tupolev was 75. Officials said he had been ill for some tim
 Douglas Adams, the whimsical British novelist who wrote ''The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,'' the best-selling science fiction humor series that introduced readers to a universe of preening, two-headed aliens, manic-depressive robots and space travelers who never parted with their bath 
 Jason Miller, the playwright and actor who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for ''That Championship Season,'' died on Sunday in Scranton, Pa. He was 62 and lived in Scranton. The cause was a heart attack, said Joseph Brennan, the Lackawanna County coroner. Mr. Miller also won a 
 Dr. Joseph H. Greenberg, an eminent linguist and classifier of the world's languages, died on May 7 in Stanford, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer. Dr. Greenberg's effort to work out the historical relationships among most of the world's 5,000 languages is regarded as a
 DUNNE-Francis J., 73, Wilton, CT. Died Friday, Norwalk, CT. Born New York City, October 16, 1927, son of the late Timothy and Bridget Cunnion Dunne. Worked in paper industry over fifty years. World War II Veteran, of United States Army. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus of Wilton, 
 HAGLER-Herbert. April 10, 1922May 13, 2001, in NYC. Executive at Associated Brands Inc., makers of ozone hair spray. Survived by his beloved wife Phyllis, daughters Nancy Fogel, Liz Rousso, four grandchildren, and sister Blanche H. Segerman. Services private. HAGLER-Herbert E. A ver
 HELLER-Estelle. The Members of Thurm & Heller, LLP wish to express their deepest sympathy to their partner, Anthony M. Heller, on the passing of his beloved mother.       
 KATZMAN - Henry Manners. (1912-2001) Beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather died on May 11, 2001. A musician, composer, landscape artist, and longtime Broadcast Music, Inc employee, he lived in NYC until he became a San Franciscan in 1970. As a pianist he played with Geo
 LEVINE-Maurice L. Died on May 12, 2001, at age 83. Known as ''The Honorary Mayor of Atlantic Avenue.'' He is mourned by his children Jeffrey and Denise, his grandchildren and his family. Services Monday, May 14, 2001, 3 PM at the Wellwood Cemetery in Pinelawn, New York.       
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 SUSSMAN-Ralph M. M.D. Former Chairman of the Department of Cardiology at Doctor's Hospital. He served the Manhattan community as a caring physician for 60 years. Beloved husband of Gertrude and the late Frances Goldberg. Devoted father of Elizabeth Anne Socolow and the late Victoria Sussman
 SWORDS-Donald Joseph, 69, of Freehold Township, NJ on May 13, 2001. He was an attorney in New York City. Beloved husband of Marion Schaad Swords and cherished father of Alana and Liam Swords. Calling hours will be held at the Higgins Memorial Home, 20 Center Street, Freehold on Wednesday fr
 WINCHESTER-Harold P. Of Summit, N.J. Died at 83 on Sunday, May 13, 2001. A graduate of Harvard 1939. He was an editor for Sheed and Ward, and Silver Burdette, and a noted genealogist. Mass May 19th, 10:30AM, Saint Teresa's, Summit, N.J.,       
 ZUCKER-Esther. On May 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Joseph Zucker and his wife Rosanne and the late Audrey Krinsky. Dear mother-inlaw of Paul Krinsky. Cherished grandmother of David, Ross, Harry and Amanda. Great grandmother of Peter, Daniel, Nathan, Tyler, Sama
 Sheldon Oliensis, who was president of the City Bar Association from 1988 to 1990 and headed other New York law organizations, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lyn. He was a partner for more than three decades in the Ma
 Jess Aguirre Ortiz de Zrate, who became the Duke of Alba and who helped tear down the legacy of repressed intellectualism of Franco's long dictatorship in Spain, died in the family's Liria Palace in Madrid on May 11. He was 66. The cause of death was cancer of the pharynx, the S
 BENNEY-Robert. The Officers and members of The Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Bob Benney. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 GITKIN-Merrill. The members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend, fellow member of long standing and past President, and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Nancy, and the family. Morton Klein, President       
 HEISLER-Irving. (A.K.A. ''Hickey''). Died May 14, 2001 at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Vivienne (deceased). He is survived by his loving son and daughter, Jeff and Toni (Jerry), his adored granddaughter Rebecca, and his dear friend Arlene. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in h
 HIMOFF-Dr. Ick. Of White Plains, NY on May 15, age 94. Husband of Helen, father of Eve-Ellen Starkman and Gregory Himoff. Brother of Dudley and Robert Himoff. Grandfather of Amy, Wendy, Arielle and Dana. Predeceased by his sister, Mildred Lewis. Funeral service Thursday 10:30AM at Congregat
 KILIAN-Joseph. May 10, 2001. The Art and Antique Dealers League of America sadly announces the passing of its former secretary (1984-1999). His dedicated service was indispensable in the building and maintenance of the association and its fine reputation. As a member of the League, he was k
 LEE-Melville J. Of New City, New York. Died Monday, May 14, 2001 at Good Samaritan Hospital. He was 85. He is survived by his wife, Charlotte, daughters Marcia and Judy, sons Michael and Jeffrey and eight grandchildren. For further information please call Hellman Memorial Chapels, 845-356-8
 LOEWENSTEIN-Benjamin S. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend Benjamin Loewenstein. Ben was a devoted member of our National Board of Governors for more than 40 years and a beloved member of two AJC chapters. In Philadelphia, he served as Chairman 
 LOWE-Jacques. Prominent photographer, died peacefully at his home in Manhattan, on May 12, 2001, at the age of 71. Beloved father of Jacques (Jamie) Lowe, Jr., Victoria Allen, Alexander (Sacha) Joseph Vinten Lowe, Thomasina Raissa Vinten Lowe, and Kristina Rebecca ThorhaugeLowe of London. A
 OISLANDER-William B. Dr. 87, passed away Monday, May 14, 2001 in Lake Worth, FL. He was a highly respected and dearly loved General Surgeon who practiced in Lindenhurst, NY and NYC for over 50 years. He is survived by his loving wife of 54 years, Lillian, devoted daughters, Meredith Oisland
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 POLLNER-T. Anthony. Age 25 of London, England, a Derivatives Trader for Taurus Petroleum, died suddenly on Saturday, May 12, 2001 in Lincolnshire, England from injuries sustained in motorcycle accident. Born in New York, NY. Anthony had been a London resident for the last year and had trave
 SPENCE-Hartzell. The writer and a founder of YANK the Army Weekly in World War II, died on May 9 at age 93, having made his home in Essex, CT since 1950. Best known for a novelized biography of his father titled One Foot in Heaven, Spence was the author of 15 published books and during his 
 WARRELL-Christopher J. The Trustees and Staff of Bassett Healthcare, Cooperstown, NY, mourn the loss of Christopher J. Warrell, PhD, president of the Friends of Bassett, our philanthropic organization. Since moving to our community in 1989, following an inspired career as an educator in Lon
 WIENER-Lawrence A. Of New York City and beyond, February 17, 1916 to May 14, 2001. Artist, tennis player, bicyclist, baritone, real estate entrepreneur, philanthopist, master negotiator, and above all, family man. Beloved husband of Ann, brother of Helen, father of Larry, Consuelo, Elizabet
 WISSNER-Gary, 37. Died May 7, 2001 in Los Angeles, California, of Hodgkin's Disease. He is survived by his parents Penny and Sid Wissner of Wesley Hills in Rockland Co, New York, his brother, Michael of Boston and his wife, Tambre Hemstreet, of Los Angeles. Memorial service will be held on 
 ZELIZER-Rabbi Nathan. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved colleague. In 1931, he became rabbi of Tifereth Israel Congregation in Columbus until he became rabbi emeritus in 1973. In 1980, he founded Beth Ami in Boca Raton and was also named its emeritus. He was instrum
 Didi, one of the world's most creative soccer players who, as the team captain, led Brazil to World Cup championships in 1958 and 1962, died on Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 71. The cause was liver failure, said Julio Mazzei, who still has strong ties to Brazilian soccer throug
 John M. Newell, a lawyer handling the appeals of the longest-serving death row inmate in the country, died on April 9 at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 47 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was internal bleeding, said a family member. Mr. Newell was 
 BREGMAN-Arthur. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Adored father of Lisa. Loving brother of Phyllis Olin & Myron Bregman. Dear brotherin-law of Vivian Bregman, Janet Mayer and the late Alvin Olin. Devoted uncle. Service today 12 Noon at Riverside, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York.     
 BRODY-Jerome. Successful businessman, restaurateur, thoroughbred horse breeder & owner, political activist and devoted husband and father, died yesterday in Miami, Florida at the age of 78. Mr. Brody is perhaps best known for his successful restaurants, Gallagher's Steak House and the Grand
 DANA-Charles A. Jr. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of our dear friend, devoted benefactor and steadfast supporter, Charles A. Dana, Jr. Charles Dana joined the NYU Medical Center Board of Trustees in 1960 and was appointed Life Trustee of Mount Sinai
 FIGUEROA-Bernabe. The Board of Directors and staff of The Children's Health Fund expresses sincere sympathy to our dear friend Bernie Figueroa Williams, captain of the Fund's Bernie Williams Yankee Home Run Club, on the death of his beloved father. We extend heartfelt sympathy to the Figuer
 HEISLER-Irving. (A.K.A. ''Hickey''). Died May 14, 2001 at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Vivienne (deceased). He is survived by his loving son and daughter, Jeff and Toni (Jerry), his adored granddaughter Rebecca, and his dear friend Arlene. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in h
 HIMOFF-Ick Thornton, Dr., D.D.S. 94, on May 15, 2001. Cherished husband of 57 years of Helen and their devoted children, Eve-Ellen and James Starkman, Aviva and Gregory Himoff. Beloved grandfather of Amy and Wendy Starkman, Arielle and Dana Himoff. Loving brother of the late Mildred Lewis, 
 MEYERS-Daniel. We mourn the passing of our inspiration, Daniel Meyers, 89, on May 16, 2001. Mr. Meyers suffered from Parkinson's Disease. He is survived by his wife, Florence, his children, Gail Meyers, Lynn Broide & Jonathan. He is also survived by his grandchildren Nina Martin and Binyomi
 MUHLFELD-Frank Bearss. Beloved husband of the late Betty Lou, died peacefully at home in Amagansett, NY surrounded by his family on May 15, 2001 at age 80. He leaves behind five children, Elizabeth Ingram of Manchester, MA, George Muhlfeld of Englewood, NJ, Katherine Bell of Northeast Harbo
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 ORNSTON-Sidgert. Of New York City, age 73, on May 16, 2001. We have lost a very special person, gifted in so many ways. Devoted and generous father and grandfather. Passionate businessman, athlete, collector and magician. Always wise and realistic, ''Sidge'' was also a man of great wit and 
 Simon Raven, whose 36 novels provided a highly personalized, exceedingly hedonistic vision of the English upper classes, died Saturday at a London hospital. He was 73. The cause was not announced, the Associated Press reported. Mr. Raven's acidly satiric style was likened to
 Andrew Mackenzie Hay, an importer and expert on international trade who was once married to the socialite Sharman Douglas, died in his sleep on May 2 at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 73 and had lived in Portland since 1982. He had been ill, but the exact cause of death was uncle
 Jerome Brody, who transformed the restaurant culture of New York as operator of a series of glittering restaurants like the Four Seasons, the Rainbow Room, Gallagher's Steak House and the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal, died on Tuesday at his home in Miami. He was 78. He died 
 Murray Murdoch, the last survivor of the original New York Rangers of 1926-27 and later the Yale hockey coach for 27 years, died yesterday at Georgetown Memorial Hospital in South Carolina. He was 96. Murdoch played 11 seasons for the Rangers, including the team's first 574 games. F
 FONFA-Stanley N. Age 79 of Palm City, FL died after a brief illness on May 16, 2001 at Martin Memorial Hospital. Beloved husband of Greta, cherished father of Ann, Gudrun, Andrew and stepson Scott, dear father-in-law of Jodi Fonfa and Steve Wolman, and darling grandfather of Raven, Brett, E
 FOX-George A. Died May 17 after a courageous struggle to recover from cancer surgery. We remember his vibrance, his love of life, his incredible generosity and his wonderful sense of humor. His diverse efforts and numerous commitments contributed to a more just world. A man of great integri
 GANNON-Vincent N., 77, of Dataw Island, S.C. (formerly of Huntington, NY), died May 15, 2001. Vince was a retired Senior Vice President of Hill & Knowlton, Inc. Survivors include his wife, May; daughter, Pamela, and brother, Thomas. Memorials may be made to the American Lung Association, NY
 KAPLAN-Dorothy. Beloved mother of Cole (Sandy) Kaplan, his wife Sara, daughter Adele (deceased), grandmother to Marley and Keri and son-in-law Jay Kaplan. Sister of Bella Kono and Dave Blumstein (deceased), beloved aunt to Roberta and David Geula, Carl and Jean Kono, Harvey (deceased) and F
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 ROMAN-Joseph. Suddenly on May 15, 2001 at age 67. Son of the late Dyonizy and Bronislawa Roman, brother of the late Daniel J. Roman. Survived by his sister Theresa R. Lynch and husband James, two nieces, and a nephew. A noted Interior Designer, Mr. Roman was a longtime resident of New York 
 SHAPIRO-Gerald L. The family of Gerald Shapiro mourns his sudden death. His quiet strength will be missed by his daughters, grandchildren, family & friends. Services Friday, 11:15 AM at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. SHAPIRO-Gerald. Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Act
 TRILLON-Yves M. Age 47. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Beloved son of Jean and Janine Trillon. Loving brother of Marc Trillon and Annick Jemfer. Died at home after a long illness, May 13, 2001. Born in France, he lived in New York for eighteen years. He worked as an architect for several City agencies i
 Georgi K. Shakhnazarov, a propagandist and political scientist of the Soviet era who rose to become a pro-reform assistant to Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the final years of the Soviet Union, died on Tuesday. He was 77. Russian news agencies said he died suddenly en route to Yasnaya Poly
 BEROWITZ-Howard. Of North Caldwell, N.J., on May 17, 2001 at home. Howard was a prominent attorney in Clifton, New Jersey for over 40 years. We will cherish his continued love of his family, friends and colleagues, his generosity, his love of music and his daily read of The New York Times. 
 FOX-George A. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union mourn the passing of our treasured friend, Chairman Emeritus, benefactor and alumnus (Civil Engineering 1940), George A. Fox. He first served as president of his class, deepening his relationship with The Cooper Union over 60
 GALINSON-Daniel. Died peacefully on May 18 at the age of 72. Cause of death was kidney cancer. Survived by his wife Rosalind, his children Paul and Lisa Galinson, Susan Zamanian. Grandchildren Laura, Melissa, Melanie, Marissa, Maya, Peyton and Benjamin. Services will be held Sunday 12:30 at
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 Ralph Miller, who learned basketball from the pioneers of the game and went on to become a highly successful head coach at major colleges for 38 years, died Tuesday at his home in Black Butte Ranch near Bend, Ore. He was 82. Miller coached at Wichita State (1951-64), Iowa (1964-70) 
 ABRAMS-Joel. The Executive Office and Associates of Seaman's Furniture wishes to express their deepest sympathy to the family of Joel Abrams on his passing. He was a good friend and will be missed by all whose lives he has touched. ABRAMS-Joel. We are extremely saddened by the unexp
 BLICKMAN-Newton A. Age 83, died April 15, 2001, at his home in Pearl River, NY. Engineer (Cornell Class of '38), manufacturer and executive, recipient in 1969 of NASA astronauts' award for equiping the Lunar Receiving Laboratory for Apollo Eleven lunar samples. Survived by daughter Victoria
 BREWSTER-Herbert Daniel. Retired foreign service officer, died April 29 with complications from pneumonia & prostate cancer. He had held posts in Beirut, Athens, Paris, Berlin and Naples. Most of his 34 year career focused on Greece. Appointed Greek Country Director in 1966, Brewster spoke 
 CHAFFEE-Steven H. Died suddenly in Santa Barbara Tuesday, May 15th, 2001. He was born August 21st, 1935, in Compton, California; he earned a B.A. degree from the University of Redlands, an M.A. at UCLA, and a Ph.D. from Stanford. His distinguished career earned him an international reputati
 FOX-George A. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union mourn the passing of our treasured friend, Chairman Emeritus, benefactor and alumnus (Civil Engineering 1940), George A. Fox. He first served as president of his class, deepening his relationship with The Cooper Union over 60
 GALINSON-Daniel. The Kaplowitz Family mourns the passing of our beloved friend and partner, Dan Galinson. Dan was a very special person, caring and concerned about people & loyal and devoted to his family and friends. We will miss him forever. Ike & Gita Kaplowitz, Richard & Marji, Michael 
 HACHMANN-Beverly K. On Wednesday, May 16th, 2001, of Solomons, Md. Beloved husband of Patricia P. Hachmann of 53 years, and loving father of Joanne P. Evans, John, Jeffrey, and Janet Parker. He is also survived by nine grandchildren and two step-grandchildren. He was a retired Director of L
 HAUT - Yitzhak, Rabbi. The Academy for Jewish Religion mourns the passing of our beloved faculty member Rabbi Yitzhak Haut. His courageous devotion to Torah as a path of pleasantness, truth and justice will be a continuing source of strength and inspiration for us all. The Academy for Jewis
 JOHNSON-Dr. Robert Andrew. Of New Castle, NH, died on May 18, 2001. Born in Pittsfield, NH, on September 21, 1914, he was a graduate of Bates College and Albany Medical School. He served overseas in the United States Air Force from 1943 until 1946, receiving the Bronze Star. A member of the
 KELBERG-Paul R. The firm of Kurzman Eisenberg Corbin Lever & Goodman, LLP, mourns its distinguished colleague, Paul R. Kelberg. He was a perceptive man of good humor; a wise and sympathy counsel to all his clients; learned in the law-we shall miss his sound and sage advice.       
 MASLIANSKY-Joseph. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Joseph Masliansky, a cherished colleague and dear friend who served as director of our Council of Organizations from 1973 until his retirement in 1988. As an exceptional profession
 OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also surviv
 STEWART-Edwin, Jr. Of Rumson, NJ on May 17, 2001. Son of the late Edwin & Elaine (nee Scherer Stewart). Husband of June (nee Brewer), married 55 yrs. Father of Edwin III and his wife Marilyn Stewart & Victoria Stewart. Grandfather of Elizabeth & E. Brooks Stewart. Brother of Albert G.S. Ste
 WEBER-John. Died suddenly on May 16, 2001, age 91. Widower of Ruth. Beloved father of Linda and Joe. Grandfather of Jennifer, Anne, Noah, and David. Great grandfather of Zachary. He was passionately committed to a just and peaceful world. We will miss his brilliant mind and generous heart. 
 Smokey Yunick, whose ingenious wizardry with automobile innards made him one of the most celebrated mechanics in racing car history, died of leukemia on May 9 at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 77. In 1990, the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1990 inducted Yunick, w
 George A. Fox, an engineer who was a leading figure in one of New York City's most ambitious public-works projects -- the construction of the Third Water Tunnel -- died on Thursday at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Fox, the retired chairman of th
 CURRY-Robert Emmet. Husband of the late Rose (Mooney), father of Robert Emmet Curry Jr., father-in-law of Margaret Kennedy Curry, grandfather of Robert Emmet Curry III and Bevin Kennedy Curry, brother of Bernard F. Curry and the late John F. Curry Jr., Veronica C. McCarthy and Francis R. Cu
 DEVENNEY-Raymond K. On May 17, 2001 at his Manhattan home at age 84. A valued member of The Olayan Group for 24 years, Mr. Devenney was Executive Vice President of the group's U.S. subsidiary, Olayan America Corporation, at the time of his passing. He joined the group's New York office in J
 DITTELMAN-Lawrence R. 58, on May 18, 2001, after a heroic battle against multiple myeloma. Beloved husband of Sharon, cherished father of Andrea, Robin, and Kenneth, loving grandfather of Jacob and Jordan and adoring son of Jean and the late Harold. A kind, sweet man held dear by all who kn
 FOX-George A. United American Energy Corp. (UAE) celebrates the life of George A. Fox, who, with three other engineers, helped create a vision of building environmentally sensitive electric power generating plants as private sector businesses. George Fox was a founding member and served on 
 KELLER-Ernest. On May 19, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Greta. Devoted mother of Evie Shvetz and mother-in-law of Fred Shvetz. Cherished grandfather of Jeremy, Alan, Brendon & Elizabeth. He will be greatly missed by his family.       
 LEIGHTON-Lewis Charles. On May 19. A New York practicing attorney in the firm of Leighton Leighton and Leighton for over 60 years, specialized in compensation, negligence and matrimonial law. Born in NYC on July 4, 1910, he was a graduate of City College and St. John's Law School, having wo
 SEGGERMAN-Harry G.A. Of Fairfield, CT, died Saturday, May 19, 2001. He was the beloved husband of Anne Crellin Seggerman. Born in New York City, Harry Seggerman was a 1949 graduate of Princeton University and began his career as a securities analyst at Dominick & Dominick on Wall Street, su
 STIMELL-Shirley. Passed away age 101, May 20, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry Stimell. Mother of Bernard Stimell and his wife Bernice and Herbert Stimell (deceased) and his wife Fredda. Grandmother of Melissa, Roni, Steven, Mindy, Scott, Nancy and nine adored great-grandchildren. Lovin
 DAVIDSON-Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life-a joy to so many-and an inestimable treasure to me. K.M.D.       
 Ross Feld, a novelist and critic, died on May 9 in Cincinnati, where he lived. He was 53. The cause was pneumonia related to cancer, said Josh Rubins, a friend. Mr. Feld was the author of four novels, ''Years Out'' (1973); ''Only Shorter'' (1982), which recounted his first b
 Stanley I. Tannenbaum, a longtime top executive at the advertising agency Kenyon & Eckhardt and an educator at the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, died on Monday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was complications from dialysi
 Howard Kahane, a philosopher who sought to rid logic of its strict mathematical connotations, making it instead a tool for assessing the truthfulness of anything, including political statements, advertisements and school textbooks, died on May 2 in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 73. He 
 Jerry Jarrett, an actor whose career ranged from ''This Is the Army'' to ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. Mr. Jarrett, whose original name was Jerome Jaroslow, was born in Brooklyn and studied with Lee Strasberg and at the Actors Lab in
 Msgr. John J. Egan, a Roman Catholic priest in Chicago whose work on issues of civil rights, changing neighborhoods and poverty shaped church efforts in those areas nationally, died on Saturday in Chicago in the rectory of Holy Name Cathedral. He was 84. An influential figure for ov
 BRODY-Jerome. We at GCNSSC mourn the passing of Jerome Brody. He was a founding Board Member and longtime supporter. His sincere attention to the needs of the homeless people in Midtown Manhattan has restored many lives.       
 BUCHSBAUM-Myron G. On May 14, 2001 at his Manhattan home at age 88. Beloved grandfather and dear friend. A longtime member of the City Athletic Club, University Club and Quaker Ridge Golf Club. Mr. Buchsbaum graduated from Horace Mann and later from Brown University. Some of his passions we
 CURRY-Robert Emmet. Age 88, of NY, NY. Retired insurance executive. Husband of the late Rose (Mooney), father of Robert Emmet Curry Jr., father-in-law of Margaret Kennedy Curry, grandfather of Robert Emmet Curry III and Bevin Kennedy Curry, brother of Bernard F. Curry and brotherin-law of K
 DOWNS-Lawrence A., MD, age 65. Loving husband of Elvira Downs, MD and father of Bethany. Died May 20, 2001 in New London, NH. He had a 30 year psychiatric practice in NYC. Memorial service and reception for friends and family on Sunday June 3, at 11:00 AM at the Lake Sunapee Country Club, 1
 FOX-George A. United American Energy Corp. (UAE) celebrates the life of George A. Fox, who, with three other engineers, helped create a vision of building environmentally sensitive electric power generating plants as private sector businesses. George Fox was a founding member and served on 
 GELLER-David. In his 88th year, on May 20th, 2001, of Hempstead, NY. Beloved husband of Dorathy nee Gershon. Devoted father of Barbara and Robert Schulman. Loving grandfather of Steven and Rachel, Andrew and Kristin. Cherished great-grandfather of Ellie. Services Tuesday, 1 PM, at ''Gutterm
 GOLDIN-Ethel. Survived by brother, Charles Goldin and his wife Frances, brother Morris Goldin, & sister Ruth Liebowitz. Services are today, 11 AM at the Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, N.Y.       
 HALLORAN-Richard J. Of Pleasantville died on May 19, 2001. He was 65 years old. Mr. Halloran was a managing attorney for Kaye Scholer LLP in Manhattan. Mr. Halloran was born on October 22, 1935 in Manhattan to John and Dorothy (Burns) Halloran. He attended OLQM, Iona College and New York La
 JOHNSON-Denair M., age 30. Passed away May 18th, 2001. He is the beloved son of Audry Chambliss and is survived by a brother, Russell Chambliss, a dear grandmother, Mrs. Esther Garvin, and aunts, Garlandine and Rebekah Garvin of Wichita, KS. And also a host of friends, relatives and extende
 KELLER-Ernest. On May 19, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Greta. Devoted father of Evie Shvetz and father-in-law of Fred Shvetz. Cherished grandfather of Jeremy, Alan, Brendon & Elizabeth. He will be greatly missed by his family.       
 LEIGHTON-Lewis. The Corpuels and Camp Wayne will deeply miss our beloved friend, Lew Leighton. We remember his joy on the tennis courts, the happiness he brought to so many at the Wayne Lodge, and his being at the heart of camp life. We, and all his camp friends, loved him so.       
 LEVINE-Solomon. We mourn the passing of our cherished friend and colleague who graced these companies for more than fifty years as a bus driver, officer and member of the Board of Directors. Sol was wise, compassionate and understanding. He brought intelligence and thought to the problems o
 MICHAELI-Joseph, M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourn the untimely death of our colleague Dr. Joseph Michaeli. An Associate Professor of Medicine and Associate Attending Physician in the Division of Hemato
 NEISLOSS-Stanley L. Of Brookville, NY on May 20, 2001, age 78. Adoring husband of Irma Gertz Neisloss for 53 wonderful years. Loving father of Susan Neisloss, Kathy and Richard Leventhal, James and Alison Neisloss. Beloved grandfather of Rory, Randy, Max and Jessie Leventhal and Kate, Julia
 O'BRIEN-Gerard John. Died on May 21, 2001, of Somers, NY. Formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Patricia Broderick O'Brien, father of Gerard J. O'Brien, Jr., of Arlington, VA, David C. O'Brien, of Alexandria, VA, Richard C. O'Brien, of Somers, NY, Patricia A. Peters, of Portsmouth, 
 PLATT-Steve. Israel Education Fund of UJC mourns the passing of Steve Platt of Palm Springs. A friend of the State of Israel who devoted his life to help better the lives of children in Israel, by building schools, community and enrichment centers, all over Israel. We send our heartfelt con
 WALETZKY-Jacob Peter. Died unexpectedly on Sunday, May 20, 2001. He was 29 years old. He graduated from Sidwell Friends School in Washington, D.C. in 1989 and graduated cum laude from Yale University in 1993. He studied philosophy at the University of Chicago. In early May 2001, he complete
 WASHBURN-Richard. The Board and Members of the Dystonia Medical Research Foundation-NY Chapter mourn the passing of our devoted Board member and friend, and extend our deepest sympathies to Miriam, Gloria and the entire family. Memorial service begins 6 PM, Wednesday, May 23rd, at the Batte
 Robert Forbes Woodward, a career foreign service officer and Latin America expert who left an imprint on American policy from Cuba to Argentina, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Woodward, who was ambassador to three Latin American countries and Spain before b
 Tad Szulc, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times whose reports of an imminent assault on Cuba by anti-Castro Cubans in 1961 came to reality in the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 74. In postings to Rio de Ja
 Frank G. Slaughter, a surgeon who became a prolific best-selling novelist, publishing 56 books that sold an estimated 60 million copies and were translated into all major languages, died on May 17 in Jacksonville, Fla.  He was 93. His first novel, ''That None Should Die,'' published
 Harry G. A. Seggerman, a pioneer in investing in Asian companies, died on Saturday in Fairfield, Conn., where he lived. He was 73. The cause was complications from diabetes, according to his family. Mr. Seggerman was one of the first mutual fund managers to explore investmen
 Loften Mitchell, a playwright, author, teacher and an early leader of the black theater movement, died on May 14 in Queens, where he lived. He was 82. Mr. Mitchell was nominated for a Tony Award in 1976 for his book for the musical ''Bubbling Brown Sugar,'' a collage of black music 
 Mario Delamo, who performed with the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's, died on May 13 in Los Angeles. He was 55 and lived in West Hollywood. The cause was hepatitis and liver failure, said Diana Rodriguez, his sister. Born in Havana, Mr. Delamo came to the United St
 BREWSTER-Herbert Daniel. Retired foreign service officer, died April 29 with complications from pneumonia & prostate cancer. He had held posts in Beirut, Athens, Paris, Berlin and Naples. Most of his 34 year career focused on Greece. Appointed Greek Country Director in 1966, Brewster spoke 
 BRODY-Jerome. We at Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corp mourn the passing of restauranteur Jerome Brody. He was a founding Board Member and loyal supporter. His sincere attention to the needs of homeless people in Midtown Manhattan has restored many lives.       
 CAPILLO-Rev. John D. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Parochial Vicar of Immaculate Heart of Mary Church, 2805 Fort Hamilton Parkway, Brooklyn, on May 21, 2001. Reposing at Immaculate Heart of Mary Rectory, on Wednesday May 23rd from 3-5 and 7-9 P.M., and Thursday, May 24t
 CLAUS-Carl. Of Chappaqua, New York, died on May 20. He was 92. He was born in Berlin, Germany and emigrated with his parents, the late Dr. Carl Claus and Elsie Regling Claus, to the United States when he was an infant. He graduated from Plainfield High School in Plainfield, NJ in 1927 and L
 GOLDBERG-Norman, 77, beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and friend. Passed away on Monday, May 21, 2001, losing a noble seven month battle with pancreatic cancer. Norman was a tough, strong-willed, generous provider and is again with his beloved Sally Ann. Norman passed at home i
 ITZKOWITZ-Phil. The National Officers of EMUNAH of America and the entire membership extend sincere condolences to our Honorary National Vice President Eleanor Itzkowitz upon the passing of her beloved husband, Phil. Deepest sympathy to the children; Helen, David and Alan, his grandchildren
 KAUFMAN-Samuel E. May 20, 2001. Former President of S & E Kaufman Associates, NYC, graduate of Syracuse University and Sigma Alpha Mu alumni. Survived by his wife, Miriam Newman Kaufman, two children, Alice and Charles, and four grandchildren. Service today, 1 PM, Riverside Chapel, 180 West
 LEEDS-David. 86. Of Ryebrook, New York, May 20, 2001. Survived by beloved sons, Michael and his wife Elaine Leeds, and Paul Leeds. Devoted grandfather to Eric, Melissa & Tracy. Services will be Thursday, May 24, 2001 at 10am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY. 
 MacDONALD-David E. May 21, 2001. Former husband of Betsy. Beloved father of Stuart Alexander MacDonald. He was a noted architect known nationwide as well as a member of AIA. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 8
 SEYMOUR-Milton A. 91, of Sarasota, FL and Southbury, CT, died peacefully at his home in Southbury Tuesday, May 22. He practiced law from 1932 to the present, holding many positions with Bar Associations in New York, including as President of the Bronx Country Bar Association. He was an Hono
 SILVERSTEIN - Jerry. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved founding member, Jerry Silverstein. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 STEINHARDT-Henry. Died age 80 on April 13, 2001. Architect, photograher and environmentalist, he is survived by his wife Helene, his daughter Elizabeth Duffett, his sons Maxwell, II and Henry, III, his sister Leigh Steinhardt Cauman, and six grandchildren. Memorial service will be held at t
 WALETZKY-Jacob Peter. Died unexpectedly on Sunday, May 20, 2001. He was 29 years old. He graduated from Sidwell Friends School in Washington, D.C. in 1989 and graduated cum laude from Yale University in 1993. He studied philosophy at the University of Chicago. In early May 2001, he complete
 WINSTON-Judith. We mourn with Arthur and his family on the loss of his wife who we came to know as a warm and caring friend and neighbor. Berkshires Lakes Estates Friends       
 WOODWARD - Ambassador Robert Forbes. On May 18, 2001 in Georgetown. Foreign Service Officer 1931-1968; Ambassador: Costa Rica, Chile, Uruguay, Spain. 1961 Assistant Secretary of State for Latin American Affairs. Survived by son, Robert Jr., Boyds, MD., daughter Mary Woodward Truland, German
 Robert Emmet Curry, former president of Catholic Big Brothers of New York, died on Saturday at his son's home in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Curry was also a former president and chairman of a Manhattan-based insurance brokerage, the John F. Curry Agen
 Belton Kleberg Johnson, a descendant of the founders of the King Ranch who made millions as the head of his own ranch and other businesses, died on Saturday at a San Antonio hospital. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Johnson's mother, Sarah, w
 BLACK-James. Of Scarsdale, New York, May 23, 2001. Survived by his wife Eva, his former wife Elizabeth Whitfield, children Catherine Turner, Campbell and David Black, sisters Marion McKenzie and Mary Allen, brother Allan Black, grandchildren Christopher, Andrew, Mitchell, Curtis, Benjamin a
 ELKINS-Stanley, 78. Died May 23, 2001 in Houston, TX. We mourn the passing of this beautiful man. He was not only our brother-in-law but a best friend & we will forever miss him. Our hearts go out to his loving wife of 54 years, Sonny, and to his endearing daughters, Susan and Roberta, our 
 GROTTA-Harold. The attorneys and staff of Grotta Glassman & Hoffman, P.A. mourn the loss of our founder, colleague, mentor and friend. We extend our sincerest condolences to Jane Grotta and to his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Harold Grotta will be sorely missed, but will
 HOLLAND-John R. Formerly of Pittsburgh died on May 22, 2001, in New York City. He was 88. Mr. Holland was a devoted husband & father and an honorable member of the community. He leaves his wife of sixty-two years Frances McLaughlin Holland. His children John F. Holland of Mercer, PA, Rosche
 HULNICK-Dr. Robert T. On May 22 of Verona, New Jersey, and Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Barbara and the late Estelle (Korn). Devoted father of Madeleine and Ken Klipper. Loving brother of George & the late Anna, Alvin, Rose, Joseph and Lillian. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey an
 JOHNSON-Belton Kleberg. Greatgrandson of the founder of the King Ranch and a San Antonio businessman, lost his hard-fought, courageous battle with cancer May 19, 2001, surrounded by his family. Johnson was well known throughout the country and abroad as a rancher, investor, philanthropist a
 MICHEL-Henry L. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of Parsons Brinckerhoff mourn the passing of Henry L. Michel, former president and chairman of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. Henry's 50 year career as a civil engineer and manager earned him an international reputation as a leader and i
 POLISE-Thomas A. On May 22, 2001. Beloved husband of Diane (nee Rizos), dear father of Thomas V., William A., Michael T., Daniel A., Joan, Jeanine, Karen and Dena. Son of Frances Polise. Grandfather of Thomas, Jonathan, Galen, Juliann & Olivia Polise. Brother of Vincent. Visitation will be 
 SEYMOUR-Milton A. 91, of Sarasota, FL and Southbury, CT, died peacefully at his home in Southbury Tuesday, May 22. He practiced law from 1932 to the present, holding many positions with Bar Associations in New York, including as President of the Bronx Country Bar Association. He was an Hono
 SZULC-Tad. The staff of PARADE Magazine mourns the loss of a beloved friend and colleague. In his twenty years as foreign editor of PARADE, Tad Szulc made significant historical contributions, including the first interview with Pope John Paul II ever to be published in an American magazine.
 TRETHEWEY-Max. On Tuesday, May 22. In Greenwich, England. Beloved husband of Betty; father of Philippa Ettore of Greenwich, & Robyn Krauthammer of Washington; grandfather of Andromica, Daniel, and Guy. A Spitfire pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force during World War II, he lived in Austr
 WALETZKY-Jacob Peter. Died unexpectedly on Sunday, May 20, 2001. He was 29 years old. He graduated from Sidwell Friends School in Washington, D.C. in 1989 and graduated cum laude from Yale University in 1993. He studied philosophy at the University of Chicago. In early May 2001, he complete
 Miguel Gil Moreno De Mora Macian. First Anniversary Barcelona 1967-Freetown 2000. A mass will be held today Thursday 24th at 19:00h in the oratory of St. Maria de Bonaigua (cimeneze Iglesias, Barcelona). The family thanks all of his friends and colleagues for the many gestures of kindness r
 Philip W. Buchen, a lawyer who in 1974 first laid plans for Gerald R. Ford to succeed Richard M. Nixon as president and then worked on legal aspects of President Ford's decision to pardon Nixon, died on May 21 at his home in Washington. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia, his family
 Stanley L. Neisloss, a major home builder on Long Island, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Brookville, N.Y. He died of causes related to Alzheimer's disease, his family said. In a career that spanned more than half a century, he built thousan
 Hartzell Spence, a writer who as founder and executive editor of Yank magazine during World War II helped introduce the term ''pinup,'' died on May 9 at his home in Essex, Conn. He was 93. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, Yank was the first to use the term as a noun, in 1
 Jacques-Louis Lions, a French mathematician recognized internationally for his work with highly complex equations that underpin the physical sciences, died May 17 in Paris after a long illness. He was 73. His principal work was in developing methods and systematic theories to analyz
 Dr. James David Ebert, a research biologist who helped upgrade embryology from an adjunct of anatomy to a modern discipline employing genetics, biochemistry and molecular biology, was killed on Tuesday in an automobile collision in Maryland. He was 79 and lived in Baltimore. His wif
 Maurice J. Noble, a film animator whose award-winning design work can be seen in the Disney classics ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,'' ''Bambi,'' ''Dumbo'' and ''Fantasia,'' died on May 18 at his home in La Crescenta, Calif. He was 91. In addition to the Walt Disney Company, Mr. 
 BARELL-Vita. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board member, Sam Rosenbloom, upon the loss of his sister. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 BERLINER-Benjamin C. Died peacefully at home on May 23 in Bloomfield, CT after a long illness. Born on February 1, 1917 to William and Anna Berliner, he was raised in Woodmere, L.I. where he graduated from Woodmere Academy in 1935. He went on to graduate from Yale University in 1939 and Col
 FOX-George A. The Board of Trustees, President and staff of WNYC Radio wish to convey their deepest condolences to the family of George A. Fox, who served as Chairman of the WNYC Foundation from 1982-84. During a critical time in WNYC's history, he oversaw the comprehensive rehabilitation o
 HALL-John Jay, PhD. Physicist and fisherman on May 23, 2001 from severe bacterial infection at Maimonides Hospital following successful coronary bypass. His death is mourned by his life partner Vivian Britt, his children John MacGregor Hall, Maura Delfour Hall and Benjamin Britt Hall, his f
 MICHEL-Henry L. The Faculty and Staff of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University mourn the loss of Henry Michel, the distinguished former President and Chairman of Parsons Brinckerhoff, Inc. Henry L. Michel directed the Development Board of the Institut
 NEISLOSS-Stanley. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Stanley Neisloss. He will long be remembered as a founding supporter and staunch advocate of our Center. We extend our sincere condole
 SHAPIRO-Louis. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an admired leader of the Jewish community, a longtime friend and generous supporter who was a YU Guardian with his beloved wife, Pauline. They established the Pauline and Loui
 SILVER-Jerry. Formerly of Palo Alto, CA. On May 23, 2001 in Greenwich, CT. He was 80 years of age and a WW II Army Infantry veteran. He was the adoring husband of Gloria Newman Silver, and beloved father to Barbara J. Tavrow, Joan Silver Katsky, and Richard J. Silver and father-in-law of Da
 Francis Ruivivar, a musical performer whose Broadway credits included ''Miss Saigon'' and Stephen Sondheim's ''Passion,'' died on Wednesday in Las Vegas. He was 40. The cause was leukemia, said a publicity agent for ''Miss Saigon.'' In 1991 Mr. Ruivivar stepped into the role
 BERLINER-Benjamin C. Died peacefully at home on May 23 in Bloomfield, CT after a long illness. Born on February 1, 1917 to William and Anna Berliner, he was raised in Woodmere, L.I. where he graduated from Woodmere Academy in 1935. He went on to graduate from Yale University in 1939 and Col
 GRYNBAUM-Bruce B.. The Faculty and Staff of The Howard A. Rusk Institute, NYU Hospitals Center and the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, NYU School of Medicine have lost one of its cherished leaders, treasured colleague and dear friend, Professor of Clinical Rehabilitation and Vice Cha
 LAIFER-Sidney A. On May 23rd, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Esther Laifer & beloved father of the late Stephen Laifer. Devoted grandfather of Susan Marinucci and her husband Max, and of Jonathan Laifer. Loving greatgrandfather of Isabella & Stephen. Devoted father-in-law of Naomi & Alan
 MICHEL-Henry. The Columbia Engineering School Alumni Association mourns the passing of our cherished friend, Past President, & alumni leader, Henry L. Michel. He was esteemed and honored by the Alumni Association and Columbia University as a great engineer and internationally known construc
 Dr. Russell Andrew Nelson, who led Johns Hopkins Hospital in a period of robust growth in the 1950's and 60's, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. A former resident of Baltimore, he was 88. Dr. Nelson became director of the hospital in 1952 and president in 1963. Un
 Walter Eytan, an early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign service to meet the needs of a new state suddenly at war with its neighbors, died on May 23 in a hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90. As first director general of the Foreign Ministry, from 1948 to 1959, Mr. Eyt
 Lloyd Shearer, a Hollywood fixture whose Personality Parade column in Parade magazine reached as many as 50 million readers in its heyday, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Shearer, who had been ill for several years with Parkinson's disease, died of a hear
 BERLINER-Benjamin C. Died peacefully at home on May 23 in Bloomfield, CT after a long illness. Born on February 1, 1917 to William and Anna Berliner, he was raised in Woodmere, L.I. where he graduated from Woodmere Academy in 1935. He went on to graduate from Yale University in 1939 and Col
 BOND-Simon (Sasha). On May 25, 2001, at the age of 104. Husband of the late Tekla Bond, father of Leo Bond, uncle of Julien Peskin and close friend of Eugenie Fromer and Irving Schneider. He was a Talmudic scholar, newspaperman, banker and real estate investor. Mr. Bond was a substantial su
 CUMMINGS-Maxwell In Montreal in his 104th year on Wednesday May 23, 2001. Husband of the late Queenie Wener. Beloved father and father-in-law of Robert and Marion, Norma and the late Jack. Cherished grandfather of Jane, Peter and Julie, James and Alice, Steven and Susan, Richard and Joanne,
 GRYNBAUM-Bruce B., M.D. On May 23, 2001, of NYC, at the age of 80. Beloved husband of Joan. Cherished father of Stephen M. and Gail A. Grynbaum, dear father-in-law of John R. Theede. Devoted grandfather of Toren and Carolyn Bendor Grynbaum. Beloved by his step-sons Brandon and Carson Reid, 
 KEISER-Gary Scott. On May 25, 2001 after a valiant bout with lymphoma. Beloved husband of Heidi Garcia Keiser. Adored son of Judy and Jerry. Dear brother of Jill Keiser. Loving master and friend of Marley, Whiskey, Foxie, Elton and Cookie. May music continue to fill his heart with joy. Serv
 McLEAN-Malcom P. On May 25, 2001, at age 87. Beloved husband of Irena McLean and the late Margaret McLean. Loving father of Malcom McLean, Nancy McLean Parker and Patricia McLean Mendenhall. Cherished grandfather of 11 and great-grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Clara McLean, Mary Mc
 MICHEL-Henry L. The Civil Engineering Research Foundation (CERF) is deeply saddened by the loss of one of its founding fathers Henry L. Michel. Henry's tremendous vision and leadership were instrumental in founding CERF in 1989 and he served as Chairman for five years. His many years of uns
 MORRIS-Grant Hall. April 12, 1929May 23, 2001. Husband, Father, Grandfather. Witty, Generous. There for all who needed him. In lieu of flowers we ask that you make contributions to a charity of your choice.       
 SEWELL-Danny (Dennis Edward). On May 18, 2001. An Obie Award-winning actor for ''The Homecoming,'' he was the original Bill Sikes in the West End and Broadway productions of ''Oliver!'' Always deeply loved and always remembered by his wife, Donna; his four children, Laura, Daniel, George an
 SHEARER-Lloyd. The staff of Parade magazine mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. For more than three decades (1958-1991), Parade editor-at-large Lloyd Shearer educated, entertained and informed millions of Americans through one of the best-read and enduring columns in magazine history
 SIMINOFF-Paul, 78, immunologist. Paul Siminoff, a leading immunologist who founded the Immunology Department at Bristol Myers, died May 21 after a long illness at his home in Syracuse, New York. Born in New York City on May 8, 1923, he received his doctoral degree from the University of Ill
 ZUCKER-Jack S. Of Philadelphia, a businessman, union organizer and political activist died on Wednesday, May 23 at 91. He was the son of Abram and Bertha Malman, born in Luc, Poland. He had a brother Max and sister Fannie. He was married to Anne Brooks for 63 years. He is survived by two so
 David Klein, an emeritus professor of social science and pediatrics and human development at Michigan State University and a prolific author, died May 19 at his home in Seattle. He was 82. The cause was cancer, family members said. Professor Klein wrote more than a dozen boo
 Hiram Z. Mendow, whose eight decades of practicing law included defending Al Capone and other gangsters, died on May 11 at a retirement home in San Diego. He was 107. He defended Capone in 1929 after the gangster was arrested in Philadelphia on charges of carrying a concealed .38-ca
 Ibrahim Abu-Lughod, a Palestinian-American political scientist who was a spokesman in the United States for the Palestinians, died on Wednesday in his home in Ramallah, in the West Bank. He was 72. The cause was a debilitating lung disease, said Edward W. Said, professor of English 
 BAEZ-Alfonso Jr. Of Woodside, Queens, NY, died Wednesday, May 23, at home. He was born January 27, 1930, in Gary, IN, the son of the Rev. Alfonso Baez and Teresa Baez. He received his education throughout the southwestern United States and graduated from Fort Bragg, CA High School in 1948. 
 BALGLEY-William. Of Ardsley, NY, on May 26, 2001. Beloved husband of Annabelle (nee Kaminetsky). Devoted father of Lynn, Gina Doynow and Jennifer Wells, brother Howard; sons-in-law Robert Cohen, Bruce Doynow and Jay Wells and grandfather of David Cohen. He is also survived by sisters-in-law
 BOND-Simon (Sasha). On May 25, 2001, at the age of 104. Husband of the late Tekla Bond, father of Leo Bond, uncle of Julien Peskin and close friend of Eugenie Fromer and Irving Schneider. He was a banker and real estate investor, and a substantial supporter of Yeshiva University, The Weizma
 ERTEL-David, Ph.D. Clinical Psychologist died unexpectidly at age 48. He was in private practice in New York City, treating children and adults. He had taught and supervised at St. Luke's Hospital and supervised in the doctoral program in psychology at City University. Dr. Ertel was a magna
 EYTAN-Walter. The Acting President, Boards of Governors and Overseers, administration, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with deep sadness the passing of Ambassador Walton Eytan. A cherished honorary alumnus of the College-Institute and esteem
 KLEIN-Jerome M. Beloved husband of the late Jane. Fond companion of Sandra Schwabacker. Devoted father of Daniel and father-in-law of Dona. Loving brother of Martin and his wife Susan. Cherished grandfather of Andrea and Melissa. Also survived by his nephew Jim. Funeral services will be Tue
 NEY-Norman. Born September 10, 1919, died May 25, 2001. He married Beatrice Atlas on December 25, 1943. He will be greatly missed by his wife, children Nancy and David Ney, son-in-law David Rockwell, daughter-in-law Patricia and his grandchildren Joanna, Zachary and Amanda. Service Wednesda
 SCHLANG-Edwin A. Died May 25, 2001. Services will be held on Tuesday, May 29, at 10 AM, at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (76th Road), Forest Hills, NY, followed by burial at Wellwood Cemetery, Farmingdale, LI. Ed graduated from MIT at age 21 with a B.S. 
 Representative Joe Moakley, who for a half-century was the proud quintessence of the South Boston Irish Democrat, died of complications from leukemia today at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 74. Mr. Moakley announced on Feb. 12 that he had an incurable form of leukemia a
 Malcom Purcell McLean, an entrepreneur who started as a truck driver and reinvented worldwide shipping 45 years ago when he hefted big loaded trailers into freighter holds, died Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, said John D. Mc
 BOND-Simon (Sasha). On May 25, 2001, at the age of 104. Husband of the late Tekla Bond, father of Leo Bond, uncle of Julien Peskin and close friend of Eugenie Fromer and Irving Schneider. He was a banker and real estate investor, and a substantial supporter of Yeshiva University, The Weizma
 CALCAVECCHIO-Richard S. Of Island Dunes, Jensen Beach, Florida. Died Sunday, May 27, 2001. A native of Syosset, NY and Brookfield, CT, he was a member of Candlewood Lake Club for 22 years. He was a Senior Vice President for the Bank of Commerce in Manhattan and a graduate of the American In
 CROWN-Ernest. Retired Vice President of Manning, Selvage and Lee, the international public relations agency, and a former journalist in Montreal and New York City, died May 27, 2001, in Lakewood, Washington at the age of 89. Cause of death was heart failure. A native of Montreal, Crown grad
 DRILLINGS-Joel. We travelled together through many worlds and times. Your pure spirit infused us all with joy and possibilities unlimited. We'll miss your smiling face, your sweet song, your broad shoulders and your big reach. We'll miss you in the snow and by the sea. See you when we get t
 ERTEL-David, PhD. The sweetest man, open hearted with remarkable sensitivity, kindness and humor. He will be missed by so many friends and patients. Joan and Jim Levine       
 KAHN-David. Loving brother of Bertha Blumberg, Yetta Rubman and the late Harry, Jenny and Charles Kahn. Cherished uncle of Anita, Evelyn, Joseph, Pierre and Philippe. He was a Merchant Marine Radio Operator, artist and inventor. We will miss him.       
 KLEIN-Jerome M. Beloved husband of the late Jane. Fond companion of Sandra Schwabacher. Devoted father of Daniel and father-in-law of Dona. Loving brother of Martin and his wife Susan. Cherished grandfather of Andrea and Melissa. Also survived by his nephew Jim. Funeral services will be Tue
 MENDIK-Bernard H. On May 28, 2001 at age 72. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Laurie, Kevin, Todd and Alex. Adoring grandfather of Marty, Gabriel, Dawson, Mary Ashley. Dear brother of Sandy Getz. Devoted uncle of Karen and Shari. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 MICHEL-Henry L. Henry's dear friends mourn the passing of our friend, a distinguished gentleman, a mentor and a mensch. From his sage advise to his unique perspectives on politics, business and world events, the world is diminished by Henry's absence. Dear friend, if you could read this, yo
 Victor Kiam, the man who said he liked Remington razors so much that he bought the company and the former owner of the New England Patriots professional football team, died Sunday morning at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 74. The cause of death was unclear, although he had suffe
 Benjamin J. Malcolm, who as New York City's commissioner of correction from 1972 to 1977 led its vast jail system through a turbulent six years of riots, demolition and rebuilding, died last Friday. He was 81. When Mayor John V. Lindsay named Mr. Malcolm to be correction chief, New 
 Bernard H. Mendik, the chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York and a longtime force in the city's commercial real estate market, died Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 72 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family sai
 BALGLEY-William. Of Ardsley, NY, on May 26, 2001. Beloved husband of Annabelle (nee Kaminetsky). Devoted father of Lynn, Gina Doynow and Jennifer Wells, brother Howard; sons-in-law Robert Cohen, Bruce Doynow and Jay Wells and grandfather of David Cohen. He is also survived by sisters-in-law
 BOND-Simon. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its devoted Trustee and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth Rabbi Ira L. Rennert Chairman J. Ezra Merkin President BOND-Simon. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Is
 FARRELL-James Edward Patrick, 58, on May 28th. Beloved husband of Kathleen (Kate), loving father of Jeffrey of Glendora, New Jersey, Susan of Buenos Aires, Argentina, Audra of New York City, Brian of Somerdale, NJ, and Casey of Hermosa Beach, California. Cherished grandfather of Sarah, Brit
 GRYNBAUM-Bruce B., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla,
 HOCHENBERG-Bernice. Service Guild, the Auxiliary of Long Island Jewish Medical Center extends heartfelt sympathy to Paul Hochenberg, Executive Director on the loss of his beloved mother Bernice. Our sincerest condolences to the entire family. Florence Hausner, Vivian Jaeger, Co-Presidents, 
 KIAM-Victor K. Died peacefully on May 27th. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Lisa, Tory and Robin; devoted grandfather of Jenny, Alexander, Sophia, Caleigh and Lia. A service will be held Wednesday, May 30th, 10AM, at the 92nd Street Y, on 92nd St and Lexington Avenue. Donations m
 KINSTLINGER-Joseph Nathan. 33, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died Sunday, May 27, of cardiac arrest while hiking with friends in Boulder, CO. A resident of Denver for the past nine years, Joe was born February 21, 1968, in New Rochelle, NY, the son of Henry Kinstlinger and Julia Pollak Kinstli
 KLEIN-Jerome M. The Board of Directors of Camp Loyaltown mourn the passing of our friend and colleague. His help and dedication were of enormous value. He will be sorely missed. Our sincerest condolences to his family. Ephraim Abramson, President       
 MENDIK-Bernard H. On May 28, 2001 at age 72. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Laurie, Kevin, Todd and Alex. Adoring grandfather of Marty, Gabriel, Dawson, Mary Ashley. Dear brother of Sandy Getz. Devoted uncle of Karen and Shari. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 PALIN-Russell D. In Waterford, Connecticut. Russell D. Palin of Guilford, Connecticut, formerly of 382 Central Park West, New York. Beloved partner of Wilhelmine Corinth. Brother of Rita Nelmes of Smithfield, IL and Fred Palin of Cuba, IL. He was born in Cuba, on June 20, 1924 son of the la
 PRICE-(Samuel) Leon, 85. Of Boynton Beach, Florida. Formerly of Bronx, Queens & New Rochelle. On May 25. Loving husband of Betty (Sloman Leeds), beloved father of Steven of Orlando, Francine of Boston, and Maureen Tillman of Maplewood, N.J. Stepfather of Wendy Marino and Barbara Leff of Wes
 SCHINDLER-Irving. Age 88, of Fair Lawn, NJ, on May 26, 2001. Predeceased by his wives, Shirley, Ruth and Jessie. Survived by his sons Paul of New York, NY and Robert and wife Teresa of Charlotte, NC; step-sons David, Robert and Mitchell Zeemont; brothers George and the late Stanley; beloved
 Charley Pell, who coached the University of Florida to football prominence in the 1980's but was fired amid highly publicized violations of N.C.A.A. rules, died Tuesday in Southside, Ala. He was 60. He had been suffering from lung cancer. Pell was a disciplinarian who drove 
 BOND-Simon. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the demise of a warm and sympathetic friend and honorary alumnus who with his late wife, Tekla, was a Benefactor whose generosity paralleled his longevity. Mr. Bond's life stretched over three centuries-from 1897 in his native Poland 
 BOTARELLI-Angelo. Age 84. Immigrated from Viterbo, Italy in 1953 on the Andrea Doria. Owner of Angelo's Diamond Touch Barber Shop for 46 years in Boro Park, Brooklyn. A true gentleman. He is survived by his wife Erika and his two children, Anna and Marco. His daughter-in-law Antoinette and 
 CERUSSI-Michael A., died on May 30, 2001, after a prolonged illness. He was 77 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Anne; sons, Michael A. Jr. of Greenwich, CT and Thomas F. of Stamford, CT; daughters, Rosemary Ferrer of Greenwich, CT and Nancy A. McEnaney of 
 DORFMAN-Alex, died May 30. Husband of the late Helen Dorfman. He was 98 years old and lived independently until the end. Cherished father of Roslyn Levin and Jerry Dorfman and the late Marcia Dorfman. Beloved fatherin-law of Karen Dorfman. Cherished grandfather of Ava and Jeffrey Dorfman, M
 FEHSENFELD-Albert S. of Situate, MA and Westhampton Beach, NY on May 28, 2001. Survived by his wife Corie, sons Luke and Adam, brother Lane English and sister Tarun Bertolami. Funeral services were private.       
 KIAM-Victor K. Died peacefully on May 27th. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Lisa, Tory and Robin; beloved father-in-law of Elena and Jonathan; devoted grandfather of Jenny, Alexander, Sophia, Caleigh and Lia. Donations may be made to: Divison of Cardiology, Weill-Cornell Medical 
 MALIAN-Mitchel M., 79, on May 29th. Survived by wife Lucy Jayne, sons Kenneth & Mitchel & daughter Debra & Haig & Sarah Jayne Seferian. Service June 1 at 10am Holy Martyrs Armenian Church, 209-15 Horace Harding Blvd, Bayside NY. 2pm interment at Calverton National Veteran's Cemetery, LI. We
 MENDIK - Bernard H. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Bernard H. Mendik, our cherished friend, devoted supporter and generous benefactor over many years. The Department of Otolaryngology received its first advanced operating microscope in the 1980s, 
 MINDES-Alvin I. Of Tappan, NY. Passed away May 28, 2001. Born 1937 in the Bronx, NY to Rose and Sam Mindes. After serving 4 years in the Navy he went on to become a CPA eventually building a successful accounting practice. His latest project was helping his children build Eagle Drive Golf i
 MOSS-Irving. May 30, 2001. Beloved husband of Evelyn, loving father of Patricia Vernam and her husband Kenneth, Michael Moss and his wife Claudia. Cherished grandfather of Sara, Daniel and Benjamin. Everyone who knew him was touched by his goodness. Funeral service Friday June 1, 2001, 1:30
 NOTTEBOHM-Lawrence died on May 16, 2001. Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on October 23, 1971, he graduated from St. Paul's Preparatory School in 1989, passed a Level exams at Eton College, England and earned his Bachelor of Science in Engineering from Harvard University in 1994. Lawrence w
 SEGAL-Susan. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the tragic death of the beloved mother of its devoted Director of Youth Activities, Ari Segal. May his work in behalf of Jewish children be a source of comfort to him and a continuous merit for the soul of his mother. We extend heartfelt co
 STANGER-Wesley A. Jr. On Wednesday, May 23, 2001, age 92 of Summit, NJ. Husband of Natalie Williams Stanger and the late Sarah McKee Stanger. Father of William M. Stanger of Summit, NJ and Robert A. Stanger of Little Silver, NJ. Brother of Rhys L. Stanger of Jacksonville, Fl. Survived by 7 
 TEFARIKI-Demitri. May 30, 2001 at age 80. Former husband of Alice. Beloved father of Helen Tefariki Lifgren and Philip Tefariki, cherished grandfather of Philip, Stephany, Sofia, Demitri, Nikolette and Francis. Mr. Tefariki was born and raised in Alexandria, Egypt, immigrated to Greece and 
 VALENTI-Frank A., 89, of Queensbury, NY, May 20. Son of the late Antonino and Lena. Born and raised in NYC; graduated from Alfred Univ. and Master's from Columbia Univ. WW II Army veteran, taught Special Education, John Jay HS, Brooklyn, over 30 years. His first wife Olga died in 1966. Surv
 KOPLIK-Kenneth E. May 31, 1996. Our hearts abound with loving memories that continue to inspire us to live each day in affirmation of your indomitable spirit. David has embraced your legacy with extraordinary grace and wisdom. He is truly your posthumous gift to the world. Diane       
 MENDIK-Bernard. In behalf of our members, The Real Estate Roundtable and the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trust, mourn the passing of our friend, supporter and industry leader, Bernard H. Mendik. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Susan, and the entire Mendik famil
 William North Jayme, a direct-mail copywriter who elevated magazine subscription solicitations to an art form, died on May 18 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, said his partner, Heikki Ratalahti. In a personal and professional partnership that
