 Allen Eager, a top saxophonist during the bebop era who after a short career quit jazz for the high life in Europe and elsewhere, died on April 13 in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his daughter Omine said. Mr. Eager was, with Zoot Sims, Stan Getz,
 George H. Williams, who was president of American University in Washington from 1968 to 1975, died on May 18 in Evanston, Ill., where he lived. He was 85. The cause was complications of an infection, The Chicago Daily Law Bulletin said. Born in Hempstead, N.Y., George Howard
 Leon Robbin, a patent lawyer who headed the legal department of the old P. R. Mallory Company when it invented the long-life sealed alkaline battery now known as Duracell, died on May 22 at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 101. Mr. Robbin drafted the patents for the company's p
 Mac Colville, who teamed with his brother Neil, a Hall of Famer, to help propel the Rangers to the 1940 Stanley Cup championship, died last Tuesday at his home in Calgary, Alberta. He was 87. In the late 1930's and early 40's, Mac Colville on right wing, Neil Colville at center and 
 Burke Marshall, the government's legal strategist on civil rights in the era of freedom rides, the Birmingham church bombing and the March on Washington, died yesterday at his home in Newtown, Conn., near Danbury. He was 80. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disorder, said
 Anil Biswas, a composer credited with introducing orchestral music to India's popular song-and-dance films, died here on Saturday. He was 89. By the time Mr. Biswas retired from composing in 1965 to become director of the national orchestra on All India Radio, he had written songs f
 Basil Langton, a British-born actor, director and theater manager who had a long and successful career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Thursday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. In World War II Mr. Langton founded the Traveling Repertory Theater, which toured Britain, perfor
 Dick Cusack, who in his middle age broke loose from an advertising career to work in the movies, as his five better-known children do, died on Monday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son John said. Mr. Cusack's daughters, Susan, o
 George H. Heyman Jr., a philanthropist and financier who was president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York from 1969 to 1971 and a trustee of New York University and its Medical Center in the 1980's and 1990's, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. M
 Mark Gault, a longtime executive at McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, died on May 24 at his home in Woodbury, Conn. He was 45. The cause was a heart attack, the agency said. Mr. Gault, a native of England, started in 1980 as a
 Richard Wingard Wallach, a New York state appeals court justice for the last 17 years, died Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He died after a weeklong coma following an aortic aneurysm, his law secretary, Peter A. Berkowsky,
 Mickie Most, a leading British pop record producer of the 1960's and 70's who recorded the Animals, Donovan, Herman's Hermits and others, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his friend and colleague Deke Arlon. Mr. Most emerged as an i
 Pierre Restany, an influential French art critic and curator, died in Paris on May 29. He was 72 and lived in Paris and Milan. The cause was heart failure, said Isabella Di Nunno, assistant to the editor of Domus magazine. Mr. Restany was best known as one of the founders an
 Robert D. Cross, a historian who was briefly president of Hunter College and Swarthmore College, died on Saturday in Charlottesville, Va., where he lived. He was 79. The cause was a head injury suffered in a fall, the University of Virginia said in announcing his death. Prof
 George Trescher, a formidable fund-raiser who for more than three decades organized glittering celebrations and other special events for some of New York's top charities and companies, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in the Murray Hill neighbor
 Charles E. Heming, a former president of the New York State Bar Association who advocated simplifying the legal system, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale. He was 77. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Heming was a specialist in tru
 Karl Genus, a prolific and versatile early director of television programs, mainly on cultural subjects, died on May 29 at his home in Asheville, N.C. He was 84. Mr. Genus (pronounced JEN-us) worked for almost a decade for CBS, beginning in 1954. Among the hundreds of shows he direc
 Wallace Terry, a journalist who covered the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War in the 1960's and compiled a best-selling oral history of black soldiers in Vietnam, died on May 29 in Reston, Va. He was 65. The cause was an inflammation of the blood vessels, said his sister-in-
 Dr. Richard A. Gardner, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who developed a theory about parental alienation syndrome, which he said could lead children in high-conflict custody cases to falsely accuse a parent of abuse, died on May 25 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 72. The cause 
 Art Cooper, who in nearly 20 years as editor of GQ magazine helped to transform it into a showplace for literary journalism, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 65. Mr. Cooper died of complications from a stroke he suffered during lunch on Thursday at the Four Seasons, his f
 The Rev. Dr. Elam Davies, pastor emeritus of the Fourth Presbyterian Church of Chicago, who helped it build a major church-sponsored community services institution on the city's Near North Side, died Friday in Bethlehem, Pa., where he had retired in the 1980's. He was 86. Dr. Davies
 Donald T. Regan, the steel-willed financier who was Treasury secretary and, later, an uncommonly powerful chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan until his bitter departure in 1987, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 84 and lived in Williamsburg, Va. The cause was cancer, said a s
 Morris B. Rotman, a founder and former head of Harshe-Rotman & Druck, the large independent New York public relations firm, died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif., and Chicago. Mr. Rotman was chairman and chief executive of Harshe-Rotman & Druck from
 Maurice Rosenthal, a French composer and conductor who was a student of Ravel and a vigorous champion of French composers from Offenbach to Messiaen, died on June 5 at his home in Paris. He was 98. As a composer, Mr. Rosenthal was known for a flexible style that reflected its time, 
 Winthrop Patterson Baker Jr., who went from trailblazing as a Westinghouse Broadcasting television executive to doing the same for deluxe bed-and-breakfasts in New England, died on Saturday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 71 and lived in Wilton, Conn. The cause was compli
 David Brinkley, the wry reporter and commentator whose NBC broadcasts with Chet Huntley from 1956 to 1970 helped to define and popularize television news in America, died on Wednesday night at his home in Houston. He was 82. In 1950, when Mr. Brinkley first went on the air, major ne
 Gregory Peck, whose chiseled, slightly melancholy good looks, resonant baritone and quiet strength made him an unforgettable presence in films like ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' ''Gentleman's Agreement'' and ''Twelve O'Clock High,'' died early yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.  
 John Semple Galbraith, a historian of 19th-century Britain whose tenure as the second chancellor of the University of California's San Diego branch in the 1960's secured its position as an equal member of the university system, died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 86. Dr. Galbraith,
 Prince Alexis Scherbatow, who left Russia in 1920 and taught history and political science at Fairleigh Dickinson University for two decades, died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Long prominent in the Russian Nobility Asso
 Sir Bernard Williams, the lightning-witted Oxford professor who is credited with reviving the field of moral philosophy and was considered by some to be the greatest British philosopher of his era, died on Tuesday in Oxford. He was 73 and lived at All Souls College, Oxford. No cause
 Felix de Weldon, whose imposing sculpture of marines raising the American flag on Iwo Jima became an emblem of the Marine Corps, died on June 2 in Woodstock, Va. He was 96. Mr. de Weldon made more than 2,000 other public sculptures, including one of Admiral Richard E. Byrd in Antarc
 Ricardo Cané, a singer and percussionist in the Afro-Cuban group Los Muñequitos de Matanzas, died on June 5 in a hospital in Matanzas, Cuba, where he lived. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, said Caridad Diez, the group's manager. Los Muñequitos was formed in 1952 
 Jimmy Knepper, a jazz trombonist best known for his productive but stormy association with Charles Mingus, died on Saturday in Triadelphia, W.Va. He was 75. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Maxine, said yesterday from their Staten Island home. Mr. Kneppe
 Leighton Rees, an imposing Welshman who became the world's first professional dart-throwing champion, died on June 8 in Pontypridd, South Wales. He was 63. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Debbie. In 1978, before the finals of the first Embassy World Pro
 Henry Robin Ian Russell, the 14th Duke of Bedford, a diffident British aristocrat who despite ill health combined a lucrative business career in London with successful management of his enormous family seat at Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire, died on Friday in London. He was 63. No cau
 Harold Ashby, a saxophonist whose long association with Duke Ellington began before he joined Ellington's orchestra and continued after Ellington's death, died on Friday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. No cause of death was announced, but he entered the hos
 Hume Cronyn, one of the foremost character actors of the American stage and screen for more than 60 years, died on Sunday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Cronyn, a compact, restless man who was once an amateur boxer and remained a featherweight 127 pounds all his life
 Yevgeny Kolobov, a conductor who was a founder of one of Moscow's most popular opera theaters, the Novaya Opera, died here on Sunday. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, the Russian press reported. Mr. Kolobov, who was chief conductor and artistic director of the Novaya
 Dr. Robert Alan Good, a founder of modern immunology and a pioneer in bone marrow transplantation, died on Friday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 81. The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said. A pediatrician, microbiologist and pathologist, Dr. Good gained 
 Donald Arthur MacDonald, a vice chairman emeritus of Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, Barron's and other financial publications, died last Friday at a hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Rumson, N.J.. The cause was lung cancer, the company sai
 Larry Doby, who broke the color barrier in the American League in 1947, three months after Jackie Robinson became the first black in modern major league baseball, died last night at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79. He had been ill for some time, his son Larry Jr. told The Asso
 Peter Redgrove, a prize-winning British poet and author, died on Monday in Falmouth, in southwest England. He was 71. He had Parkinson's disease in his final months, The Daily Telegraph reported. A versatile and prolific writer, his output included about 50 verse collections
 Larry Doby, who broke the color barrier in the American League in 1947, three months after Jackie Robinson became the first black in modern major league baseball, died Wednesday night at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79. The cause was complications of cancer, a granddaughter, N
 Rudolf Franz Hoelker, a member of Wernher von Braun's original team of rocket engineers, died on Saturday in Newton, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Wellesley. Trained as a mathematician, Dr. Hoelker worked on the trajectory aspect of the guidance system that steered the Saturn rockets
 Dave Polansky, who replaced the highly respected Nat Holman as basketball coach at City College and carved out a solid record of his own, died last Monday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Taking over as coach for Holman was a regular practice fo
 Doug Michels, an architect and artist and a founding member of Ant Farm, a radical art and design collective of the late 1960's and 70's, died on June 12 at Eden Bay near Sydney, Australia. He was 59 and lived in Houston. Mr. Michels fell to his death while climbing alone to a whale
 Howard David Samuel, a veteran A.F.L.-C.I.O. leader who served as a liaison with its industrial union components as well as with government and private organizations, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 78 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said.      
 William Marshall, a character actor who performed for more than 40 years on Broadway, on television and in movies, died on June 11 in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said Sylvia Jarrico, his partner of 42 years. Mr. Marshall, a serious actor who also pl
 Dr. Belding H. Scribner, who invented a device that allowed millions of people to live on long-term kidney dialysis and pioneered the development of bioethics committees, died on Thursday in Seattle. He was 82 and a professor emeritus at the University of Washington. A kayaker found
 Johnny Miles, a grocery deliveryman from Nova Scotia who came out of obscurity to win the 1926 Boston Marathon in one of distance running's greatest upsets, died last Sunday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 97 and the marathon's oldest surviving winner. When he arrived in Boston in Apri
 Paul Bernbach, a philanthropist and real estate investor, died on June 14 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and a lifelong resident of Brooklyn. The cause was melanoma, his family said. Mr. Bernbach was born in Brooklyn, a son of William Bernb
 Roger Neilson, the coach of eight National Hockey League teams and an assistant coach of four for more than a quarter-century, and one of the game's great innovators, died yesterday at his home in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 69. In 1999, Neilson was told he had multiple myeloma, c
 George Axelrod, a writer whose sexually frank farces and feverishly witty satires of the 1950's and 60's heralded the more hedonistic and cynical pop-culture sensibility of later decades, died Saturday at his home in the hills overlooking Los Angeles. He was 81. His daughter, Nina A
 Roger Neilson, the coach of eight National Hockey League teams and an assistant coach of four for more than a quarter-century, and one of the game's great innovators, died Saturday at his home in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 69. In 1999, Neilson was told he had multiple myeloma, ca
 Victor Perera, a memoirist, journalist and novelist fascinated by the enduring cultures of Sephardic Jews and the Maya Indians, died on June 14 at his home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, said Bernard Taper, a friend. Mr. Perera, who was born in Guat
 Walter N. Rothschild Jr., who stepped down as president of the Abraham & Straus department store chain to pursue a civic career, died Friday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. He was 83. The cause was complications from surgery, his son, Trip, said. After spending nine y
 Joseph Chaikin, an actor and director who invigorated the American stage with his experimental Open Theater in the 1960's and early 70's, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 67. The cause was congenital heart failure, said his sister Shami, an actress who perform
 Leonard Koppett, a sportswriter and author known for an analytical approach that went beyond the frenzy of the sports moment, died Sunday at a concert in San Francisco. Mr. Koppett, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Suzanne, said.       
 Maynard H. Jackson Jr., who as this city's first black mayor embodied the seismic shift in political power from Atlanta's white establishment to its growing black middle class, died this morning after collapsing at an airport in Washington. He was 65. He was resuscitated at Reagan N
 Peanuts Hucko, a jazz clarinetist who worked with Glenn Miller and Louis Armstrong but was probably best known for his association with Lawrence Welk, died on Thursday in Fort Worth. He was 85 and lived in Denton, Tex. Jazz aficionados admired Mr. Hucko, whose style was modeled clos
 Fred Sandback, a sculptor internationally known for his Minimalist works made from lengths of colored yarn, died on Monday at his studio in New York. He was 59. Mr. Sandback, who suffered from depression, committed suicide, said his wife, Amy Baker Sandback. For almost 40 ye
 Leon Uris, the high school dropout who became a brand-name novelist with his best-selling ''Exodus,'' the 1958 historical pageant about the founding of modern Israel, died on Saturday at his home on Shelter Island, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was renal failure, his former wife, the ph
 Lester Maddox, the Atlanta restaurant owner and archsegregationist who adopted the pick handle as his symbol of defiance in a successful bid for the Georgia governorship in 1966, died on Wednesday in Atlanta. He was 87. Mr. Maddox first came to national attention in 1964, after he v
 Fred Sandback, a sculptor internationally known for his Minimalist works made from lengths of colored yarn, died on Monday at his studio in New York. He was 59. Mr. Sandback, who suffered from depression, committed suicide, said his wife, Amy Baker Sandback. For almost 40 ye
 Lester Maddox, the Atlanta restaurant owner and archsegregationist who adopted the pick handle as his symbol of defiance in a successful bid for the Georgia governorship in 1966, died on Wednesday in Atlanta. He was 87. Mr. Maddox first came to national attention in 1964, after he v
 John G. Adams, a former general counsel for the Army whose repeated clashes with the anti-Communist crusader Joseph R. McCarthy in the early 1950's ultimately helped bring him down, died today at his home in Dallas. He was 91. Despite a long career in public service during five deca
 Richard H. Pough, a founder of the Nature Conservancy whose many decades of conservation efforts, initially undertaken as a concerned individual, led to the establishment of nature preserves from Florida to Maine and as far west as Arizona, died on Tuesday at his home in Chilmark, Mass. He 
 Sir Denis Thatcher, steadfast husband of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and a man who embraced his role as second fiddle with aplomb and humor, died today in a London hospital. Sir Denis, 88, who had been in frail health, died with his wife and twin children, Carol and Mark
 Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, a central figure in the political transformation of the South and the longest-serving senator in American history, died yesterday in Edgefield, S.C. He was 100. He had been living in Edgefield, his hometown, since retiring from the Senate in January
 David Newman, the screenwriter who collaborated with the director Robert Benton on the groundbreaking crime-spree film ''Bonnie and Clyde,'' died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was a stroke, said Bobby Zarem, a family friend. When ''Bonnie and Clyde'' opened in
 I. Bernard Cohen, a Newton scholar and Harvard educator whose life's work molded the history of physical science as an academic discipline in the United States, died on June 20 at his home in Waltham, Mass. He was 89. Dr. Cohen joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor in physics 
 Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, a central figure in the political transformation of the South and the longest-serving senator in American history, died on Thursday in Edgefield, S.C. He was 100. He had been living in Edgefield, his hometown, since retiring from the Senate in Janua
 John Henry Redwood III, a playwright, actor, librettist and lyricist whose work reflected different racial and ethnic experiences in America, died on June 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 60. The cause was heart disease, said John Essay, his New York manager. Mr. Redwo
 Robert R. Wechsler, an advertising executive who had a hand in the creation and continuing success of one of the most popular promotional campaigns ever, the Miss Rheingold Contest, died on June 15 in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Wechsler was a 26-year
 Fielder Cook, an award-winning director of films and television dramas, died on June 20 in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Charlotte and San Francisco. The cause was a stroke, said his brother-in-law, John Germany. From the medium's earliest days, when dramas were per
 Freddie Meeks, a former sailor whose presidential pardon four years ago recalled the largest mutiny case in American history and the plight of black servicemen in the segregated military of World War II, died on June 19 in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause was complications from dia
 Rabbi Robert L. Lehman, a prominent Reform rabbi and a refugee from Nazism who eventually returned to a pulpit in Vienna, died on June 13 at a hospital in Nassau County. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, his family said. Rabbi Lehman retired
