 BANKS-Alan. Dancer, choreographer, teacher. Died Dec. 29, 1997. He is survived by his beloved brothers and sisters-in-law Morris and Janet Dittman, Jack and Anita Dittman and his loving nieces Arlene Dittman and Elaine Mack. Funeral services will be held Friday, January 2, 1998, 1 PM at Par
 BARRINGER-Victor J. 7/22/21-12/ 22/97. Gentleman, scholar, sailor, after a courageous battle with emphysema and cancer. A graduate of Dartmouth College he served in the USMC in World War II. He was wounded and decorated for action throughout the Pacific theater. Rest in peace, dear friend. 
 COULTER - Michael. Michael passed away on December 27, 1997 after a brief illness. Michael was born March 19, 1943. He was involved in the arts for most of his life, assisting, nurturing and supporting artists like Jack Smith, Andres Serrano and Laurence Fishburne. Although originally from 
 DONAHUE-Rev. John P., C.S.P. On December 31 at age 75, was a native of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Fr. Donahue served in the U.S. Army Tank Corps '42-'46; wounded in action three times, suffering the loss of his right eye. He was awarded The Purple Heart with one Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster and
 FELDMAN-Robert Lee. Prominent New York Physician, Robert Lee Feldman, passed away on December 27th at his winter home in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Dr. Feldman practiced Obstetrics and Gynecology in his Fifth Avenue office where his patients included many Hollywood personalities, national di
 FOGELSON-David. The Trustees, and Staff of The Jewish Museum extend condolences to the Fogelson and Liman families and heartfelt sympathy to David's daughter, and Life Trustee, Ellen Liman, his daughter-in-law, Phyllis Fogelson, and his grandchildren. Both David and his late wife, Gertrude 
 GASSMAN-Ron. December 29, 1997, Bedford, New York. Temple Shaaray Tefila mourns the sudden passing of Ron Gassman, Ron was a Founding Member, Past President, Director and Dear Friend of our congregation. Our hearts are with his wife Marian, and daughter Lauren as we mourn this tragic loss. 
 GILL-Brendan. Chairman Emeritus and previously President and Chairman of the Municipal Art Society of New York. Our Board, staff, members and supporters send our sympathy to Anne, to Brendan's seven children and eleven grandchildren. Not just our Society, but all of New York will miss Brend
 KREISBERG-Barrett G. The Trustees of The Harkness Foundation for Dance mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague Barry Kreisberg. Barry served the Foundation with distinction and dedication for twentyfive years. We extend our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Luisa who has been
 NACKENSON-Leon. We mourn the passing of Leon Nackenson on Dec. 24, 1997. A devoted husband to the late Eva, father of Caryl and Gary, grandfather of Julie, Edgar and Henry. A company executive with Louis Dreyfus for thirty-five years, Leon was also an avid bridge player, opera buff, tennis 
 SCHMITT-Zig, 52. Died at his home in East Hampton, NY, on Monday, December 29, of brain cancer. A native of Miami Beach, Zig was born on December 21, 1945, the first son of Lila Greenspan (Heatter) and W. Gordon Schmitt. Zig attended schools in Miami Beach, and then The Hill School in Penns
 WAXBERG-Stanley D. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Stanley D. Waxberg. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus
 Warren Mehrtens, 1 of only 10 jockeys to win thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown, died Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 77. Over a 12-year riding career, Mehrtens rode 614 winners and earned more than $3.5 million in purses. But no stretch of racing ever matched the five-week run he 
 Barrett G. Kreisberg, president of the Harkness Foundation for Dance and chairman of the New York State Board of Real Property Services, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kreisberg was named president of th
 ARTEL-Jacques. Born January 18, 1914 in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. Died December 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Janet Ann Bissell Artel. Devoted father of Catherine Lee Pietrogallo, Marie Christine Wallace and Alexis Artel. Also survived by five grandchildren and five nieces and nephews. He fled 
 BANKS-Alan. Dancer, choreographer, teacher. Died December 29, 1997. He is survived by his beloved brothers and sisters-in-law Morris and Janet Dittman, Jack and Anita Dittman and his loving nieces Arlene Dittman and Elaine Mack. Funeral services will be held Friday, January 2, 1998, 1 PM, a
 DILWORTH-J. Richardson. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Community Service Society of New York deeply regret the death of their Honorary Life Trustee, J. Richardson Dilworth. In his fourteen years of devoted service to CSS, he held many offices including President and Vice Chairman of
 GARLICK-Harold. Died peacefully Tuesday, December 30, 1997 at his home in Boca Raton, FL. A long-time resident of New York, Harold and his wife moved to Florida in 1993 where he established his permanent residence in Boca Raton, FL. He was formerly the President of Garlick Funeral Homes, al
 GEIST-Harry. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its cherished member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, daughters and the entire family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus David Werber, President       
 JELENKO-Jesse F. Jr. On Dec. 24, 1997, after a brief illness, in Edina, MN. Born July 28, 1913. He was past president of J.F. Jelenko & Company, a leading producer of dental products. He is survived by two children and four grandchildren. Services will be held Sunday January 4, at 1 P.M., a
 KREISBERG-Barrett G. The Trustees of The Harkness Foundation for Dance mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague Barry Kreisberg. Barry served the Foundation with distinction and dedication for twentyfive years. We extend our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Luisa who has been
 MOORMAN-Francis D. Of New York City and East Chatham, New York, died in New York Hospital, January 1, 1998. Survived by his companion of 35 years, Thomas C. Cracovia. A memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 Richard Elman, a novelist, poet and critic who taught for many years at the Bennington College Summer Writing Workshops in Vermont, died on Wednesday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. A resident of Stony Brook, he was 63. The cause was lung cancer, which had been di
 Bob Wilvers, a former advertising executive, died on Dec. 10 at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer, said Francine Wilvers, a former wife. Mr. Wilvers was the art director for the Carl Ally agency in the early 1960's when he developed a campai
 John George Williams, a self-taught naturalist who gained international renown as a safari guide to the bird life and other fauna of eastern and central Africa, died on Sunday at Leicester General Hospital in Leicester, England. He was 84 and lived in Rutland, Leicestershire. Mr. Wi
 ARTEL-Jacques. Born January 18, 1914 in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. Died December 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Janet Ann Bissell Artel. Devoted father of Catherine Lee Pietrogallo, Marie Christine Wallace and Alexis Artel. Also survived by five grandchildren and five nieces and nephews. He fled 
 GARLICK-Harold. Died peacefully Tuesday, December 30, 1997 at his home in Boca Raton, FL. A long-time resident of New York, Harold and his wife moved to Florida in 1993 where he established his permanent residence in Boca Raton, FL. He was formerly the President of Garlick Funeral Homes, al
 JELENKO-Jesse F. Jr. On Dec. 24, 1997, after a brief illness, in Edina, MN. Born July 28, 1913. He was past president of J.F. Jelenko & Company, a leading producer of dental products. He is survived by two children and four grandchildren. Services will be held Sunday January 4, at 1 P.M., a
 KINGSLEY-Charles. It is with deepest sympathy that we mourn the passing of our friend, Charles. We will miss his warmth, kindness, and generosity of spirit. He made each of us feel truly welcome and important and we have vivid, loving memories of happy days spent with him, Emily, and Jason 
 KREISBERG-Barrett. The entire School of American Ballet family notes with sadness the death of Barry Kreisberg. Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins and President Larry Alan Smith join the Board, Faculty, Staff and Students in their condolences to his family and his colleagues at Harkness. We 
 LAVINE-Burton J. Beloved husband of Marian. Devoted father of Steven and Lauren. Loving son of Goldie Jean Lavine. Dear brother of Joyce Simon. Cherished uncle and loyal friend to many. Vice President of Marketing, Zenith Distributing Corp of New York City. Adjunct Professor of Marketing at
 MOORMAN-Francis D. Of New York City and East Chatham, New York, died in New York Hospital, January 1, 1998. Survived by his companion of 35 years, Thomas C. Cracovia. A memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 NORTH-George. Born on July 28, 1927 in New York City, died Wednesday, December 31, 1997. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. North who are now both deceased. George last resided at the Dunn Avenue IRA in Corinth, NY. Concerned friends or family should call the Capital District DSO Director, Mich
 POLLYEA-Alex. Of New York City. On December 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Jessica. Loving father of Eric and Alexandra Pollyea. Dear brother of Pauline Strausberg. Service at the Church Center for U.N., 777 UN PLaza, 44th Street and 1st Avenue, New York City, at 11:30 A.M. Interment
 WALSH-James D. The Foley Square Heads, an association of former Assistant United States Attorneys for the Southern District of New York who served in the Thirties and early Forties, mourns the passing of a beloved colleague and friend who participated in our activities and helped bond our m
 Richard Allen Lester, an economist who specialized in wage and labor issues, and a dean of the faculty, emeritus, at Princeton University, died on Tuesday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 89. Professor Lester is known for his basic research in wage determination and minimum wa
 Col. Francis J. Kelly, who devised Army plans for unconventional warfare in the early 1960's, then commanded the Special Forces in Vietnam when the Green Berets were earning a formidable reputation for battlefield heroics, died on Dec. 26 at the Garden Terrace Nursing Home in Aurora, Colo. 
 APPLEMAN-Daniel E. January 2, 1998. Director of the Cranbrook Institute of Science in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. Survived by his wife Peggy, his daughter Rebecca, his brothers Michael and Gerald, and their families. Memorial Service at a later date. Tributes may be made to the Cranbrook In
 BANKS-Alan. Dancer, choreographer, teacher. Died December 29, 1997. He is survived by his beloved brothers and sisters-in-law Morris and Janet Dittman, Jack and Anita Dittman and his loving nieces Arlene Dittman and Elaine Mack.       
 COLLESTER - Fritz. Theatrical agent, friend. A dedicated, kind, thoughtful man who cared deeply about his actors' lives. His loss diminishes us all. Mark Hall Amitin       
 COLON-Jose ''Tony''. December 31, 1997. Past President of EAL Metro Chapter, Exec. Board Kennedy Democrats, Exec. Board Queens Valley Home Owners, Past Adjutant VFW, Albertson, LI. IAM Shop Steward, JFK. Survived by his beloved wife Gloria, sons John and Richard and their families. Viewing 
 FELDMAN-Robert L., M.D., The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their longtime colleague and friend. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary       
 GARLICK-Harold. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Harold Garlick. We will miss his kindness and his compassionate dedication to the Jewish Community. Our deepest sympathy to his family, associates and countless friends. The I.J. Morris Family GARLICK-Harold. 
 GILL-Brendan. The Board of Directors and members of The Victorian Society in America wish to epxress our appreciation of Brendan Gill, longstanding Board member and currently a member of our Advisory Council, for his constant help, enthusiastic preservation efforts and indomitable spirit. H
 GILMAN-Howard. On January 3, 1998. President of the Howard Gilman Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Gilman Paper Co. Beloved son of Sylvia and the late Charles Gilman. Brother of the late Charles Gilman, Jr. Friends may call at at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Mo
 GRIST-Keith Paul. Of Locust Valley, Long Island, on January 1, 1998. Adored and beloved son of Barbara E. Beloved and cherished brother of George H. Keith was a fine, beautiful young man who touched all who knew him with his courage, strength and humor. He has left us to find everlasting pe
 GROSSMAN-Herbert. On December 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Sandra. Devoted father of Robin, Lynne and Laurie. Dedicated father-in-law of Matthew, Allen and Jeff. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Jeffrey, Jackson and Joseph. Dear brother of Helen Graf. Loved and admired by all who knew him. 
 HELLER-Jesse W., 81, handsome, charming, wise, funny, affectionate, irascible. Jesse earned his Doctor of Law Degree at Harvard Law School, served as an Intelligence Office in WW2, and practiced law in NYC. As Masonic Officer, he worked tirelessly for underprivileged children. He was a lead
 KINGSLEY-Charles R., 69. Of Chappaqua, NY. On December 28th the world lost a wonderful and remarkable man. Beloved husband and best friend of Emily Perl Kingsley. Adored father and hero of Glenn (Jennifer), Todd (Michelle), and Jason. Fun-loving grandpa and magician to Samara, Ethan, Spence
 KREISBERG-Barrett. The entire School of American Ballet family notes with sadness the death of Barry Kreisberg. Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins and President Larry Alan Smith join the Board, Faculty, Staff and Students in their condolences to his family and his colleagues at Harkness. We 
 LAVINE-Burton J. Beloved husband of Marian. Devoted father of Steven and Lauren. Loving son of Goldie Jean Lavine. Dear brother of Joyce Simon. Cherished uncle and loyal friend to many. Vice President of Marketing, Zenith Distributing Corp of New York City. Adjunct Professor of Marketing at
 POLLYEA-Alex. Of New York City. On December 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Jessica. Loving father of Eric and Alexandra Pollyea. Dear brother of Pauline Strausberg. Service at the Church Center for UN, 777 UN PLaza, 44th Street and 1st Ave., New York City, Monday, January 5 at 11:30 
 ROSNER-Kalman Donald, M.D. in his 91st year, of Jackson Heights, Queens. Passed away December 29, 1997 at South Shore Health Care Center after a long illness. Dr. Rosner was on the staff of Physicians Hospital for 40 years. Retired Chairman of Department of Anesthesiology. Fellow of the Col
 SCHNEIDER-Irving. Age 91, died January 1, 1998. Devoted husband of Ethel, beloved father of Anne Evans, cherished grandfather of Suzan Hochberg and Richard Evans and great-grandfather of Isabelle and Julia Hochberg. Reknown theatrical and bankruptcy attorney. We will miss his guidance, gene
 STOWENS-Bernard H., 81. Died Dec. 31, 1997 in NYC, peacefully in his sleep. Born April 11, 1916 in NYC, he attended CCNY and Johns Hopkins University. During W.W. II, he worked as a physicist on the Manhattan Project at Oak Ridge, TN., and later helped in the development of the earliest com
 EPSTEIN-Edward. The earth can have but earth. His spirit of good still lives. Doris George Estelle       
 LAURENCE - Richard Alan. 1953-1981. Richard left us with a treasury of beautiful memories never to be forgotten. His love and compassion will forever be imprinted within our hearts. Lovingly remembered, Mom, Dad and Wendy.       
 Yuji Yoshimura, a master bonsai grower who taught and nurtured the classical Japanese art in the United States, died on Dec. 24 at Medway Country Manor in Medway, Mass. A resident of Norfolk, Mass., he was 76 and formerly lived in Tarrytown and Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The cause was c
 Darrell Halloran, the basketball coach at Pace University, collapsed at halftime of a game against American International College at Pace's Civic Center Gymnasium in Lower Manhattan on Saturday afternoon and was pronounced dead shortly afterward at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 47.    
 George W. Irving Jr., a food-safety expert who led a major Federal study that found most food additives to be safe but recommended limits on added salt, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon asked the Food and Drug Administration
 Howard Gilman, the chairman of the Gilman Paper Company, who was a philanthropist and a collector of photographs and other art, died on Saturday on an estate near Jacksonville, Fla. He was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan. Mr. Gilman, who had had heart trouble for some time, died o
 John Lewis Miller, who was superintendent of the Great Neck, N.Y., public schools from 1942 to 1970, died at his home in Great Neck on Dec. 22. He was 93. Mr. Miller's career in education spanned more than 30 years, and his policies in the Great Neck school system brought him nation
 BERRY-Stephen G. December 31, 1997. Suddenly while on vacation in Ireland, Steve, of Croton-OnHudson, NY and Columbia University, NYC. Sadly missed by his wife, Mary (O'Neill), his parents Pat and Gerry (Exton, PA); his father-in-law, Tony O'Neill; his brother-in-law, Declan and family; his
 CECHURA-Radim. On January 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Deborah. Devoted father of Michael and Lukas. Loving brother of Vaclav, Jiri, the late Libusa, and brotherin-law of Vera, all of Prague. Taken much too soon, he will live in the hearts of his family and friends in the United States, Aust
 CHATZKY-Emanuel. On January 2, Deerfield Beach, FL. Dearly beloved husband of Leonore. Devoted father of Joel and Barbara. Loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Daniel, Stacie and the late Debra, and Mark and Michelle. Dear brother of Jerome. He'll remain in our hearts forever.       
 DILWORTH-J. Richardson. On December 29, 1997. Beloved husband, devoted father and proud grandfather. Memorial service will be at 12PM, Saturday, January 10, in the Princeton University Chapel, Princeton, NJ. The Rev. Carl D. Reimers will officiate. A reception will be held afterward at Pros
 GILMAN-Howard. On January 3, 1998. President of the Howard Gilman Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Gilman Paper Co. Beloved son of Sylvia and the late Charles Gilman. Brother of the late Charles Gilman, Jr. Friends may call at at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Mo
 LEAKE-Donald Lewis, M.D. Surgeon, oboist, died December 31, 1997 at home in Rolling Hills, CA. He was 66. Dr. Leake attended USC and was Fulbright Scholar in Brussels (1956), principal oboist with Robert Shaw Chorale (195455), San Diego Symphony (195459), and other ensembles. He performed w
 LEIBLER-Salomon. Loving husband of Sulamith. Dear father of Myriam and Jerry, Debby and Michael, Helen and Rich. Adored grandfather of Gabriel, Marc, Sara, Rebecca, David, Daniel, Matthew, Lauren and Caryn. Devoted brother of Nathan. Born February 23, 1924. Died January 3, 1997. Dearly love
 McNAB-Charles Lloyd. On January 3, 1998. Memorial services will be conducted at the Joseph T. Kennedy Funeral Chapel, 117 West 72nd Street, New York City, on Tuesday evening, January 6, 1998, at 6:30 PM. Reverend Johanna-Karen Johannson will be officiating. In lieu of flowers, donations in 
 POLLYEA-Alex. Of New York City. On December 28, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Jessica. Loving father of Eric and Alexandra Pollyea. Dear brother of Pauline Strausberg. Service at the Church Center for UN, 777 UN PLaza, 44th Street and 1st Ave., New York City, Monday, January 5 at 11:30 
 PORT-Jeffrey David. 38, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Woodbury, NY, died January 3, 1998 of Aids Dementia Complex. Beloved son of Nathaniel and Rose Port; loving brother of Dr. Michael and Jacqueline Port. Devoted uncle of William, Lindsey, Allison and Tyler. In lieu of flowers, family req
 Robert M. Hunt, a former chief executive of the Tribune Company  died Dec. 27 at his home in Naples, Fla., from complications of diabetes. He was 69. Mr. Hunt, who was publisher of The Daily News of New York from 1979 to 1984, had been ill for some time, his wife, Sharon Hunt, said.
 Thomas Crawford Mayers, a retired department store executive and former Mayor of Stamford, Conn., died on Dec. 20 at a nursing home in Stamford where he had lived since 1995. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Mayers was nominated by the Republican Part
 James Lees-Milne, a British architectural historian and author who played a key role in the preservation of that ornament of British life, the historic country house, died on Dec. 28 in Tetbury in the county of Gloucestershire in western England. He was 89. He had cancer, The Daily 
 KARLITZ-Lester, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, longtime friend and former Governor of our Board. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Fresh Meadow Country Club Steven Howard, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary KARL
 ABELMAN-Cecil ''Spike''. Past Vice President of Lehrer McGovern Bovis. Died January 5 at age 81 after a long illness. He is survived by his four children and seven grandchildren. Ceremony to be private. Any tributes to be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 BERMAN-William C. Beloved and devoted husband who was care giver to his dear Alzheimer-afflicted wife Fanny, for 12 years until her passing in 1992. cherished, adored and loving father of Marilyn Grosfeld. Devoted, proud, and greatly admired ''professor of life'' grandfather (''Poppie'') of
 BERRY-Stephen G. Dec. 31, 1997. Suddenly while on vacation in Ireland, Steve, of Croton-On-Hudson, NY and Columbia University, NYC. Sadly missed by his wife, Mary (O'Neill), his parents Pat and Gerry (Exton, PA); his father-inlaw, Tony O'Neill; his brother-inlaw, Declan and family; his sist
 BROWN-Robert S. of Providence, RI and Great Neck NY on January 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Erika. Devoted father of Kenneth, Carita (Marshall) Dornfeld and Neil (Leslie) Brown. Loving grandfather of Ethan, Jeremy and Aidan. Services on Wednesday January 7 12:30PM at Temple Beth-El, Old Mill
 CARR-Rufus Tucker Sr. Of Scotland Neck, NC formerly of Long Island, died January 3 at his home. Mr. Carr retired as Vice President of Joshua L. Bailey & Company in New York City. Graveside services will be conducted Tuesday, January 6, at Trinity Episcopal Church Cemetery in Scotland Neck, 
 CHATZKY-Emanuel. On January 2, Deerfield Beach, FL. Dearly beloved husband of Leonore. Devoted father of Joel and Barbara. Loving grandfather of Jeffrey, Daniel, Stacie and the late Debra, and Mark and Michelle. Dear brother of Jerome. He'll remain in our hearts forever.       
 DiPILLO-Roberta A. The Board of Regents, Administration and staff of The Long Island College Hospital note with sorrow the untimely passing of Roberta DiPillo, beloved wife of Dr. Frank DiPillo, Chairman, Department of Medicine, and member of our medical staff since 1956. We extend condolen
 ENGLER-James J., of Manhattan, died December 20, 1997 at age 81. Born in Dubuque, Iowa, he was a violinist and vocalist with big bands in the 1930's, a film and stage actor in the '40s and '50s, appearing in both the stage and screen versions of ''Winged Victory,'' and later was a successfu
 FREILICH-Julius. 91, passed away in Los Angeles, CA on January 2, 1998. Surviving are his beloved wife, Edith, sons Dr. Michael (Judith) Freilich and Dr. Robert (Carole) Freilich, five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. Services will be held on January 6, 1998 in Miami Beach.     
 GILMAN-Howard. On January 3, 1998. President of the Howard Gilman Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Gilman Paper Co. Beloved son of Sylvia and the late Charles Gilman. Brother of the late Charles Gilman, Jr. Friends may call at at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Mo
 HIGGINS-Joseph Hanlon. Passed away January 1, 1998, in Laguna Hills, CA. He was 80. Mr. Higgins was a Credit Manager for Dun & Bradstreet for many years. He is survived by his wife Jeanette of 25 years, one son, Roger Higgins, daughters, Carol (Michael) Tampa, Donna (Joe) Licari, Diane (Sta
 KING-Harry J. Died December 30, 1997, in his 90th year, husband of the late Fidelia Bettes King, survived by his three children, Joan Dreyfus, Fidelia Rice, John King, and five grandchildren. Fordham Prep '23, Fordham College '29, Fordham Law '33, tennis pro at Sleepy Hollow Country Club, s
 KOPMAN-Nathan P. Age 79. Died January 5, 1998. Devoted husband of Julia and the late Shirley. Beloved father of Michael (Rosie) and Cynthia (Harold) and stepfather of Larry (Ashley). Cherished grandfather of Spencer, Jacob and Emma. Served his country honorably as a Lieutenant. in WW II and
 LEVINE-Benjamin A. On Sunday, Jan. 4, 1998 at George Washington University Hospital. Husband of Ruth D. Levine; father of Judith L. (Elliott C.) Lichtman and Felice J. Levine; brother of Janet de Vries and Sarah Grossman. Also survived by his grandchildren, Julia Lichtman, Sarah Lichtman (E
 MORRISON-J. Gibson, 82, of Saddle River, NJ and Axton, VA. on 11/16/97. Surviving are his son Andrew H. Morrison and his daughter-in-law Sheppard. Also survived by his grandchildren Vicky an Gregory, all of Axton, VA. A memorial service will beheld on Thurs., Jan. 8, 1998 at 2 PM at St. Bar
 RABINOWITZ-Milton C. January 5, 1998. Husband of Ellen. Father of Charles and Caren. Grandfather of Jamie and Brynne. Brother of Lillian Simon. A graduate of Harvard Law School and a practicing attorney in the metropolitan area. He was a member of the Westport Masonic Lodge and Rotary Club.
 SALKOWITZ-Al. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Al Salkowitz, and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Philip Adler       
 SCHWAEBER-Mary. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to fellow Trustee, Henry (Pat) T. Schwaeber, on the loss of his beloved mother, Mary. A warm and caring relationship has come to a close, leaving behind many prec
 SCHWARTZ-Jack. Beloved and devoted husband of Cynthia, father of Martha, Lise, Eric, and Karl, father-in-law of Albert, Cathy, and Helen, grandfather of Rebecca, Daniel, Sarah, Rachel, and Anna. Devoted uncle, cousin, and friend to many. He led a full and interesting life and left his mark 
 SKELTON-Charles Thomas. With deep sorrow we mark the passing of our dear friend and companion. Charles Thomas Skelton, formerly of NYC, Westport, Connecticut and Chaplin, Conn. He is survived by two daughters, Linda Huffman of Memphis, Tenn., and Janet Voorhees of Santa Fe, N.M., four grand
 WAXBERG-Stanley D. On December 21, 1997. Beloved husband of Nikki and uncle of Marvin Waxberg. Memorial services are on Thursday, January 8, 11:30 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. WAXBERG-Stanley D. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep 
 Francisco Rodrigo, one of the old-time campaigners against the dictatorship of Ferdinand E. Marcos, died on Sunday after decades of unbending dissidence, a Philippine newspaper reported today. He was 83. He died of complications from pneumonia, according to The Philippine Star, for 
 John Howard Yoder, a Mennonite theologian whose writings on Christianity and politics had a major impact on contemporary Christian thinking about the church and social ethics, died on Dec. 30 at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind. He had turned 70 the day before. The ca
 Mihaly Igloi, a tyrant of a track coach who fled to the United States during the 1956 Hungarian revolution and coached some of the world's leading middle-distance runners, died on Sunday in Budapest. He was 89. His death was announced by the International Amateur Athletic Federation
 BATEMAN-Dr. John. The Columbia University Department of Physical Education and Intercollegiate Athletics mourns the passing of John Bateman, who represented Columbia so well as a student-athlete, coach, and alumnus. Co-captain of the 1937 Columbia Football Team, he returned to his alma mate
 BERMAN-William C. Beloved and devoted husband who was care giver to his dear Alzheimerafflicted wife Fanny, for 12 years until her passing in 1992. Cherished, adored and loving father of Marilyn Grosfeld. Devoted, proud, and greatly admired ''professor of life'' grandfather (''Poppie'') of 
 BERRIGAN-Paul Dunn, Brigadier General, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, Retired. In San Francisco, January 2, 1998. Husband of the late Mary Fay Berrigan. Survived by his beloved first cousin, Mary Dunn Schreiner of Boston, his faithful housekeeper, Rosita Corpuz, and eleven nieces and nephew
 BROWN-Robert S. Of Providence, RI and Great Neck, NY, January 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Erika. Devoted father of Kenneth, Carita (Marshall) Dornfeld and Neil (Leslie) Brown. Loving grandfather of Ethan, Jeremy and Aidan. Services Wednesday, Jan. 7, 12:30PM at Temple Beth-El, Old Mill Road
 BURCH-William Preston. Of Hilton Head Island, Savannah and Garden City on January 5 , 1998. Beloved husband, devoted father and proud grandfather. Survived by his wife Peggy Judd Burch, his brother Elliott of Newport, his three sons, Michael, Peter and Preston and two granddaughters, Kather
 CHAPMAN-Robert D. Born on December 21, 1915; of Palm Beach Gardens, FL.; passed away January 4, 1998. Bob was a NYC book and magazine production executive before retiring to south FL. He is survived by his beloved wife Helen, his two sons Vance and Geoffrey; four daughters Robin, Janice, Li
 DISTEFANO-Pat, 43. From complications of a brain tumor, January 1st at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Mr. Distefano worked for the last four years of his life as a casting director for Hopkins Smith Barden Casting. Before this he worked as an actor, appearing in such plays as ''Blue Dahlia'
 GILMAN-Howard. On behalf of the entire New York University Medical Center community we note with great sorrow the passing of Howard Gilman, a longtime benefactor and good friend. He established the Howard Gilman Foundation AIDS Research Laboratory at the Medical Center and has helped our sc
 KAVALER-Frederic, M.D. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the American Heart Association/New York City Affiliate mourn the passing of Frederic Kavaler, M.D., former Board President. His contributions to cardiology and science touched the lives of so many. We extend our deepest 
 KIRKWOOD-Murray Delmar died at his home in Rowayton, CT on January 4, 1998 at age 86. He held degrees from Pomona, Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, Harvard and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. He taught government at Harvard, and Political Science at Pomona before the Second World War. 
 KREISBERG-Barrett G. Mercy College mourns the passing of Barry Kreisberg, friend and Board member, and extends deepest sympathies to his beloved family. Francis G. Ronnenberg, Chairman Jay Sexter, President       
 PALL-William. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Pall family on the loss of their beloved son, William. We know his appreciation of fine art and his ability to see the beauty in life made him a special human being. Our deepest condolences to his father David, his step-mother Helen, his wife Oliv
 ROSENTHAL-Randolph, M.D., after a devastatingly swift illness. Husband of Hilda; father of Charles and Roy; father-in-law of Jane; grandfather of David and Laura; brother of Helen Pall; brother-in-law of Evelyn Myers, Israel and Harriet Miller; loving uncle. A practicing psychiatrist for fo
 SHEREFF-Henry David. In loving memory of Henry David Shereff. We regret to announce the death of Henry David Shereff, January 6, 1998 at 78 years old. Born May 25, 1919, son of Solomon and Leah. Beloved husband of Meta. Beloved father of Stephen, Sidney and Charles. Beloved brother-inlaw to
 SIPRESS-Nathan L. On January 4, 1998 in his 94th year. Husband for 56 years of the late Estelle. Father of Linda, David and Ginny. Arrived in this country from Russia in 1914 and became the proprietor of Revere Jewelers. Services at 5:30pm, Wednesday, January 7 at Frank E, Campbell, 1076 Ma
 SKOLSKY-Bernard M. Bernie read the obits in the Times first thing every morning. He said, ''Every life is a story.'' Here is his: he was born in Poughkeepsie, raised in Millerton, got his MA. from Albany, did graduate work at Columbia, wrote a TV quiz show, taught English and Journalism in 
 WOODS-W. Harcourt. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame mourn the loss of our friend and board member. A warm, gracious and committed supporter of tennis, hockey, will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Mary
 Representative Sonny Bono, whose unexpected career in Republican politics followed an equally unexpected -- and successful -- career as a singer and television star with his former wife Cher, was killed on Monday afternoon when he crashed into a tree while skiing in South Lake Tahoe, Calif.
 Dr. Thomas F. Frist Sr., who was widely regarded as the father of the modern for-profit hospital system, died at his home in Nashville on Sunday. He was 87. His venture into for-profit medicine began in the late 60's, when Dr. Frist and his son, Thomas Jr., founded the Hospital Corp
 BRAUNSCHWEIGER-Leo, on December 31, 1997. Beloved husband of Flora for sixty years. Loving father of Leonard and Mark. Dear brother of Celia, Claire and Hannah. Father-in-law of Leslie. Uncle of many nieces and nephews. He, along with his late brother Max, were the owners of the Hudson View
 BRUDNER-Bernice. On January 6, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Louis Brudner. Loving mother of Richard and his wife Roberta. Dear grandmother of Matthew and Jonathan. Sister of Vivian Strausbourger. Loving aunt and great aunt. Resident of New York City and Hollywood, Florida. Funeral Riversi
 FRANK-Alan. Beloved husband of Cookie. Devoted father of Kim, Scott and Greg. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Frank family on the loss of this special person. His warmth, love for friends and family will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences. The Carmel and Getreu Family       
 GILMAN-Howard. With great sadness, the Board of Directors and staff of Career Transition for Dancers note the loss of our dear friend, Howard Gilman. He loved dance and he loved dancers. He knew that our art form could only flourish in the long run if individual artists could also flourish,
 JACOB-Ezekiel ''Kim''. Age 84 of Chicago, formerly of Brooklyn Heights, N.Y. Jan. 6, 1998. Husband of the late Ethel Charlotte Jacob. Father of Robert Jacob and Elizabeth Jacob Cohen. Grandfather of Charlotte Jacob, Anne Jacob and Jonathan Cohen. Memorial gifts may be made in his name to Br
 KOGAN-Nathan, 91. Passed away Jan. 6, 1998 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Winifred and his daughter Jane Kogan of Provincetown, MA. He was a retired attorney from New York City and formerly a cellist with the Ft. Lauderdale Symphony, and greater Miami Opera under the Bato
 LEVITT-Sam. Of Boca Raton, FL. passed away at the age of 83 on January 6, 1998. He will be remembered as a devoted Husband to Pearl; loving father (and father-inlaw) to daughters, Mona, Tanya and Ann and sons, Mark and Arthur; caring grandfather to Eileen, Michael, Jennifer, Jason, Stuart, 
 MANGER-German on January 7, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Madeline. Loving father of Joseph and Rose Marie Manger. Dear grandfather of Eric and Gretchen Manger Immerman. Cherished uncle of Rudy and Otmar Manger. Also survived by his sister-in-law Beate Manger and many nieces and nephews
 MOORMAN-Francis D. (Frank). Hall of Famer, Ad Executive, Youngest Naval Commander, U.S. Water Polo Guru, died in New York Hospital on January 1, 1998, after a fall-induced coma at the age of 81. He was born July 7, 1916, with his identical twin, Silas Mercer Moorman, MD. Frank graduated fro
 MORRIS-Ben C., 67. Died Monday, January 5, 1998 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Georgia. Mr. Morris, an artist and fashion designer, had taught at the Savannah College of Art and Design since 1983, where he was well known and respected by faculty, staff, and students alike. Born in De
 PALMER-George C. Age 75, of Bayport and Davis Park, LI, on January 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Althea H. Palmer. Dear father of John, Robert, Susan Palmer Austin, Catherine Palmer Roy, Virginia Palmer Beaulac, Thomas and Christopher and stepfather of Pamela Kurey, MD and David Henrich. Fond
 ROSENBLATT-Henry. On January 7, 1998. Master musician, vocal instructor and authority on Jewish liturgical music. Loving son of the late renowned Cantor Josef and Taube Rosenblatt. Survived by his brother Ralph Rosenblatt, his sisters Nettie Reiss, Sylvia Gruber, nieces and nephews and his 
 SELIGMANN-James F. On January 5, 1998 at age 79 after a long, brave battle with illness. Beloved husband of Ursula (Buchholz), cherished brother of Dr. Arthur Seligmann, Robert Seligmann and Jean S. Levine. Loving and loved uncle of nine nieces and nephews. A member of the New York Publishi
 SHEREFF-Henry David. The Directors and members of the Townsend Harris Alumni Association are deeply saddened by the death of Henry Shereff, a founder and past president of the Alumni Association, and a member of the Townsend Harris Hall of Fame. Gentle, kind and generous, Henry Shereff was 
 STOWENS-Bernard H., 81. Died Dec. 31, 1997 in NYC, peacefully in his sleep. Memorial service Sunday, Jan. 11, 2:45 PM, Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76th Street, NYC.       
 William Russell Kelly, who as founder of Kelly Services Inc. turned temporary work into an industry -- and a way of life for many Americans -- died Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the company announced. He was 92. In 1946, when Mr. Kelly started his company -- known f
 Dean X Johnson, a composer, conductor, arranger and pianist whose choral works have been performed and recorded by more than 70 choirs around the world, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42. His sister Cathy Johnson said the cause was AIDS. Mr. Johnson was born
 Jack F. Grimm, a flamboyant West Texas wildcatter who found his share of oil in Texas and Oklahoma but had less luck searching for Sasquatch in the Pacific Northwest, the Abominable Snowman in Nepal, the Loch Ness Monster in Scotland, Noah's Ark in Turkey and the Titanic in the North Atlant
 Owen Bradley, a producer, musician and songwriter who helped establish Nashville as the creative center of country music, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nashville. He was 82. Born on a farm near Westmoreland, Tenn., Mr. Bradley played piano as a teen-ager in local roadhouses and
 BERMAN-Herbert. Bnai Zion mourns the loss of our former Vice President Herbert Berman. During his tenure he served as Chair of the Finance Committee and provided leadership on behalf of the handicapped and disadvantaged. He was a dedicated Zionist and a true friend. We extend our sincere co
 BRADFORD-John Carroll. Retired Art Director, died at St. Vincent's Hospital on December 30, 1997 at 4:30AM of lung cancer. Mr. Bradford was VP and Art Director of Family Circle Magazine from 1970-1987 and was a member of The Art Director's Club of NY and The Society of Publication Designers
 BURKE-William James. Bill passed away in his sleep on January 7 after a year long bout with cancer. Bill was born on August 30, 1927. After living most of his first 50 years in and around New York, he spent the last 20 years of his life living in Irving, Texas. Bill was a veteran of W.W. II
 COTLER-Leslie B., 59 years. Passed peacefully after a long battle with cancer. Loving husband of Harriet (nee Young). Cherished father of Jennifer, Richard and Robyn Cotler and Rebecca and Rodney Nenner. Son of Esther. Brother of Howard. Grandfather of Michael, Jonathan and Benjamin. Servic
 DEVITT-Paul V. Age 64. Died on January 6, 1998. Memorial Service on Saturday, January 10, at 3 PM, Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Avenue and 29th Street, where he was on the staff. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Marble Collegiate Church, or The American Cancer Society.     
 DILWORTH-J. Richardson. On December 29, 1997. Beloved husband, devoted father and proud grandfather. Memorial service will be at 12PM, Saturday, January 10, in the Princeton University Chapel, Princeton, NJ. The Rev. Carl D. Reimers will officiate. A reception will be held afterward at Pros
 FEENEY-Jim. All his long term friends and colleagues at ABC Sports mourn the death of ''Doc'' who passed away on January 6, after a long and valiant battle. His strength throughout his ordeal strengthened each and every one of us at ABC Sports. To know Jim was to experience the true meaning
 FIELD-Arthur. At rest in Stanford, CA. Native of NY, NY. Age 78. Attorney. Survived by his beloved wife of 46 years, Marilyn Field, devoted sons Howard and his wife Patricia, and Donald, adored grandchildren, Aaron, Matthew and Alison. Dear brother of Sydelle Glickman and her husband Arthur
 FISHBEIN-Eli. Suddenly in FL. Cherished husband of Myrna, beloved father of Sarah and Steven Epstein, Elisa and Clint Greenbaum, Kalman and Susie Fishbein, loving ''grandpa'' of Jake, Lauren, Kate, Augusta, Craig and Danielle Rose. A UJA benefactor and an AMIT Friend. Service Sunday 11:15AM
 FREGER-Richard J. Of Roswell, GA., passed away on January 6, 1998 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Linda. Devoted father of Jonathan of Venice Beach, CA., and Jennifer of Evanston, IL. He was a lingerie designer for Vanity Fair Intimates. Memorial service will be held at The Rivers
 GOSIN-Sydney. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sidney Gosin, beloved father of Barry Gosin, a dedicated leader and generous supporter of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to Barry, his wife Jackie, and their dau
 GUFFANTI-Paul. On Jan. 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Olga. Devoted father of Paul Jr. and Arthur. Fond brother of Theresa Craven. Dear father-in-law of Carole Ann. Friends may call at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, New York on Thursday and Friday, 2-4 and 7-9. Mass
 KAHN-Lawrence R., 85. Died on Dec. 18, 1997 in Bandon, OR. Longtime resident of New Rochelle, NY. Survived by his wife, sculptor Helen Beling; daughters Kathe Mayer and Victoria Tierney, and by three grandchildren. Mr. Kahn was past president of the New York Society of Security Analysts, an
 KUSKO-George. The Board of Directors and members of the Van Cortlandt Workmen's Circle Community House deeply mourn the passing of George Kusko, husband of our devoted Board member, Helen. Our sincere condolences to Helen, their children, Bruce and Vicki Lea and their grandchildren, Jonatha
 MICHELSON-Leonard R. Beloved husband for 57 years of Josephine. Devoted father and best friend of son Leslie and daughter Nancy Ben-Dror. Beloved grandfather of Emily, David and Daniel. His character and indomitable spirit were a source of great joy and inspiration to all. May this very goo
 OBERRENDER-Girard, M.D. The Lenox Hill Hospital Alumni Association deeply regrets the passing of Girard Oberrender, M.D., esteemed member of the Department of Otolaryngology since January 1, 1921. He has remained on the Honorary Staff to the present time. He died on January 7, 1998 at the a
 PERLMAN-Sam (Pearl). On Wed., Dec. 31, 1997. Many people lost a friend and community activist in the passing of Sam. He was a strong voice against injustice and for the rights of those who were under-served or voiceless, from veterans to the homeless, tenants to the rights of animals. He wi
 SELIGMANN-James F. On January 5, 1998 at age 79 after a long, brave battle with illness. Beloved husband of Ursula (Buchholz), cherished brother of Dr. Arthur Seligmann, Robert Seligmann and Jean S. Levine. Loving and loved uncle of nine nieces and nephews. A member of the New York Publishi
 SHEREFF-Henry David. The Directors and members of the Townsend Harris Alumni Association are deeply saddened by the death of Henry Shereff, a founder and past president of the Alumni Association, and a member of the Townsend Harris Hall of Fame. Gentle, kind and generous, Henry Shereff was 
 WARNER-William B. Died on January 5, 1998 at home after a short illness. He was 81 years old. Born in Bad Axe, MI. Mr. Warner lived for many years in Brooklyn and Garden City, NY, moving to Mattituck, NY in 1986 and to Lake Wales, FL in 1995. He was a graduate of Brooklyn Polytech and of St
 ARIES-Peter L. A lifetime resident of Westchester County died Friday, January 9, 1998 at his home in Ossining, NY. He was 60. He was born May 28, 1937 in Yonkers, NY to the late Ernest J. Aries and the late Gladys Friedman Aries. He was a graduate of Riverdale Country School and Hobart Coll
 BERMAN-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors and the Staff of the America-Israel Friendship League, deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague Herbert Berman, a long time supporter and Treasurer of our organization. His life of dedication to the Jewish People, the State o
 DEVITT-Paul V. Age 64. Died on January 6, 1998. Memorial Service on Saturday, January 10, at 3 PM, Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Avenue and 29th Street, where he was on the staff. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Marble Collegiate Church, or The American Cancer Society.     
 FURMAN-George C., 88. Of Bellport, New York, died at 7:30 PM, at Brookhaven Health Care Facility. Former Director of Fleet Bank of Eastern Long Island until his retirement five years ago, was President of Banker's Trust & Co. in the early forties which later evolved into becoming the Patcho
 GOSIN-Sydney. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to our esteemed partner, Barry Gosin, on the passing of his beloved father, Sydney. We would also like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire family, most especially Irene, Sydney's wife. Ma
 GRAHAM-Canon John Webb, E.D., Q.C., B.A., LI.B., D.S.Litt., U.E. Peacefully at home, on Friday, January 9, 1998 in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Natasha. Loving father of Ann Grahman Calderisi and Ted Rogers. Caring fatherin-law of Loretta Rogers. Dear brother of Betty C. Graham. Cheris
 KAPLAN-Donald Roy. God's Love We Deliver honors the memory of our dear friend, Donald Roy Kaplan. Donald was a person of caring and conviction, with a gift for analysis and a quick wit, whose contributions spanned the history of God's Love We Deliver. From encouraging and advising our found
 KIRSTEN-Grace Elish. On January 8, 1998 in her 98th year. Psychotherapist, lecturer and author. Loving mother of Dr. Maurice E. Sherman and his wife Jane. Adored grandmother of Susan (Les) Morgenstein and Lynn M. Sherman. Great grandmother of Charles. Cherished sister of the late May Markew
 KLEIN-Herman. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Herman Klein, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Georgette, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Harry Laufer, President       
 STANTON-Thomas J., Jr. The executives and staff of Reliance Group mourn the loss of our board member Thomas J. Stanton Jr. who, for more than thirty years, generously shared his knowledge and wisdom with his colleagues. As a leader in civic and educational affairs, he will be missed through
 Sir Michael Tippett, whose distinctive and sometimes perplexing music made him the best-known British  composer since Benjamin Britten, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 93. He became ill on a trip to Stockholm for a 12-day festival of his music, said Meirion Bowen, his
 Harold Bromley, an early aviator who repeatedly tried to make the first nonstop flight between the Pacific Coast and Japan but was foiled in his bids to become the Lindbergh of the Pacific by a series of misadventures, died on Dec. 20 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Desert, Calif. H
 Herbert Berman, a New York tax and corporate lawyer long active in civic and Jewish causes, died on Thursday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Manhattan firm Tenzer Greenblatt, of which he was the most senior active member
 Jack T. Conway, who as an official of the Johnson Administration worked to establish Head Start and several other Great Society programs, died on Tuesday morning at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. A longtime labor wor
 ARIES-Peter L. You were an inspiration to me because you never gave up hope. Peter ''A'' was my devoted business partner for over ten years and my cherished friend forever. I will always remember the wonderful experiences we shared working together at Aries Brandenberg Company (ABC) as the 
 BERMAN-Herbert. We express our sincere condolences to Daisy Berman on the passing of her beloved husband, Herbert. As Golden Founders of the Medical Center, their generous support of our Pediatric Unit and the Jesselson Heart Center has played a vital role in helping to provice comprehensiv
 BONK-Jacob, 77. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. On January 1, 1998, at Delray Community Hospital in Delray Beach, Florida. He is survived by Bernice, his wife of over fifty years, children, Arnold and Helen Bonk of Fairfield, Conn., Suzanne and Jay Tepper of Scotch Plains, New Jers
 FISHBEIN-Eli. AMIT is deeply grieved by the sudden passing of the beloved husband of our devoted Regional Vice President, Myrna Fishbein. A person of warmth and compassion, Eli Fishbein contributed so much to the furtherance of the AMIT Mission of Saving the forgotten Children of Israel. We
 GOSIN-Sydney. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to our esteemed partner, Barry Gosin, on the passing of his beloved father, Sydney. We would also like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire family, most especially Irene, Sydney's wife. Ma
 GRAHAM-Canon John Webb, E.D., Q.C., B.A., LI.B., D.S.Litt., U.E. Peacefully at home, on Friday, January 9, 1998 in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Natasha. Loving father of Ann Grahman Calderisi and Ted Rogers. Caring fatherin-law of Loretta Rogers. Dear brother of Betty C. Graham. Cheris
 HOCHSTEIN-David. Beloved husband of Irene. Father of Vivian and Jacqueline. Grandfather of Raymond, Jessica, Alison, Lauren, Yardley and Zoey. Father-in-law of Michael and Joel. Brother of Bernard and Annette. He was a gentleman and scholar, and will be missed by his family, friends and bro
 KRAMER-Martin. January 7, 1998, born June 6, 1907. Inventor, mentor, teacher, (aeronautics and math, East New York Vocational High School; insurance, Columbia University). Retired, Northport, FL, community leader, founding chair education center, organizer of Peace Day. He offered a clarity
 LIEF-Arthur. On January 8, 1998. The kindest man, a true gentleman with the heart of a radical. Conductor, voice teacher, opera translator, and music intellectual. Survived by his beloved wife of forty-five years Ruth Hurok Lief, two stepchildren Peter Hyams and Nessa Hyams Picker, sisters 
 NOLAN-James P., Sr., of Northport, NY, on January 8, 1998, 83 years of age. Founder of the Nolan & Taylor-Howe Funeral Home. Devoted husband of the late Anne T. (nee O'Rourke). Loving father of James P., Jr., (Pamela), Jeanne A., Thomas P., (Carolyn), and Peter J. (Laure). Cherished grandfa
 OBERRENDER-Girard F., M.D., The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their sorrow at the passing of Girard F. Oberrender, M.D., Honory Consulting Physician. Dr. Oberrender, who joined the Dept. of Otolaryngology in 1921, served with great distinction as its Dir
 SCHIEFFELIN-G. Richard of Tampa, FL, and Billings, MT. Loving father and friend to many, died January 3rd of Leukemia. Dick committed his life to providing philanthropic support and academic/career counseling to more than two thousand eight hundred students over the past forty years. A grad
 SIEGEL-Conrad. On January 2. Devoted father of Howard and Leslie. Grandfather to Trevor and Chelsea. Brother of Allie and Ray. Brother-in-law to Marlene. He will always be with us. Services in Boca Raton, FL. on January 18. Private service in New York.       
 TAGGART-Henry Joseph, 75, passed away on Monday, January 5, 1998. He was a resident of Bal Harbour, FL., formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Shirley and brother of one surviving sister Elizabeth McNamara, and uncle of Christina, Frank and Robert. A memorial mass will be scheduled 
 TARNOVSKY-Boris, 79, cancer. Survived by beloved wife Patricia, dear sister Valentina Figaredo, daughters Lynn and Ann, five grandchildren. NYC native, San Francisco resident. At his request no services.       
 TAYLOR-A. Thomas. A. Thomas Taylor died on January 8, 1998, at his Pebble Beach, CA home. Mr. Taylor was a prominent businessman, having served on the Board of Directors of several major corporations such as the Ford Motor Company. During his business career he was a Chairman of Deltec Inte
 Richard Wesley Hamming, who discovered mathematical formulas that allow computers to correct their own errors, making possible such innovations as modems, compact disks and satellite communications, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Monterey, Calif., where he lived. He was 82. He d
 W. H. Conzen, the former chairman and chief executive of the Schering-Plough Corporation, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 84. The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter, Elizabeth Conzen Zellner. One of corporate America's most successful leaders
 Dr. David D. Clark, a nuclear physicist who developed a nuclear research tool that promises to provide more precise analyses of materials, died on Dec. 22 at his office at Cornell University. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y. The cause of death was cardiac arrhythmia, university o
 Dr. Frederic Kavaler, a physiologist whose study of the contraction of heart cells opened the way for research on ways to treat heart disease, died on Jan. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was stomach cancer, family members said.    
 Eldon W. Lyle, a noted plant pathologist of Tyler, the East Texas town known as a center of rose research, died on Dec. 28 at a Tyler nursing home. He was 89 and had lived in Tyler most of his life. Dr. Lyle earned international renown in the fight against diseases affecting the ros
 Ewart G. Abner Jr., a record business executive who was president of the Vee Jay and Motown labels, died on Dec. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 74. Mr. Abner began his career in the record business in 1948, when he worked at a pressing plant in Chicago. Two years later he and Art Sherida
 George Shaw, a quarterback who played eight professional seasons, mostly as a backup to Johnny Unitas, Charlie Conerly and Fran Tarkenton, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 64. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, his son Patrick said.      
 Herbert Grossman, a pharmaceutical industry executive who helped introduce some of the world's most widely prescribed drugs, including Valium and the Sabin polio vaccine, died of congestive heart failure in Manhattan on Dec. 29. He was 67. During his 47-year career in the pharmaceut
 Kenichi Fukui, a Japanese theoretical and physical chemist who was one of two winners of the 1981 Nobel Prize for chemistry, died on Friday in a hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 79 and lived in Kyoto. The cause was cancerous peritonitis, his family said, according to Japan Economic 
 BIRNBAUM-David. Of Bronxville, NY, and Boynton Beach, FL, on January 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Joyce, Ronnie, Beth, Arlene and Steven. Loving grandfather of Adam, Allison, Mark, Jamie, Jay and Jessica. Funeral services today at Free Synagogue of Westchester, Mt. 
 EUSTACE-Edward Patrick. On Friday, January 9. Age 74. Of Montvale, NJ. Born to the late Patrick and Mary Eustace of New York City. Husband of Catherine Eustace, 39 years. Father of Edward, Stephen, James, Mary Catherine, and John. Father-in-law of Emmy, Maura, Cheryl and Edward Johnson. Gra
 FRIEDMAN-Hyman R. Age 93. Beloved father of Michael and Carole. Adored grandfather of Debbie and Mark Cooper, Lisa and Tom Steigelman, Jon and Sherri Friedman. Admired great-grandfather of Bradley, Adam and Zachary Cooper. A father's father, a husband's husband, a lawyer's lawyer for almost
 GOSIN-Sydney. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to our esteemed partner, Barry Gosin, on the passing of his beloved father, Sydney. We would also like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire family, most especially Irene, Sydney's wife. Ma
 GRAHAM-Canon John Webb, E.D., Q.C., B.A., LI.B., D.S.Litt., U.E. Peacefully at home, on Friday, January 9, 1998 in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Natasha. Loving father of Ann Grahman Calderisi and Ted Rogers. Caring fatherin-law of Loretta Rogers. Dear brother of Betty C. Graham. Cheris
 KILLINGSWORTH-Max. Died at the age of 58, of respiratory and cardiac failure. Max is survived by Thom Hansen, his mother Maude Killingsworth of Dothan, AL, brothers Doug and Jimmy, sisters Mary and Betty, and an extensive extended family here in NYC. He was a longtime resident of Cherry Gro
 SCANLON-Anthony J. Age 46, of High Falls, Ulster County and NYC, on January 10, 1998, of AIDS. Son of the late Clifford J. and Nancy, he is survived by his life partner Mark P. Walter, and his beloved brother and sisters, Clifford J., Nancy and Marina Trentacoste, and brothers-in-law Salvat
 Paul M. O'Leary, an economist who oversaw the rationing program during World War II, died Jan. 1 at the Kendal at Ithaca nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 96. Dr. O'Leary served on the faculty of Cornell University from 1924 until 1967, taking several leaves to join other economis
 The Rev. Raymond-Leopold Bruckberger, a member of the Roman Catholic Dominican Order who became chaplain general of the French Resistance in World War II and a best-selling author in the United States, died Jan. 4 in a retirement home near Fribourg, Switzerland. He was 90. Father Br
 Walter E. Diemer, who invented bubble gum and taught salesmen how to market it by blowing gooey pink bubbles, died on Thursday at a hospital near his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 93. Mr. Diemer was a fledgling accountant for the Fleer Chewing Gum Company in Philadelphia when he beg
 Ellis Rabb, one of the most versatile actors and directors in the American theater who, as the founder and artistic director of the A.P.A. theater company, brought diverse seasons of repertory theater to Broadway in the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in
 Klaus Tennstedt, a German conductor who was renowned as a Mahler interpreter, died on Sunday at his home in Kiel, Germany. He was 71. Judie Janowski, Mr. Tennstedt's manager before his retirement from  the concert stage in 1994, said the cause was throat cancer. Because he s
 Tony Lavelli, an all-America basketball player at Yale University in the 1940's and a forward with the Boston Celtics and the Knicks who was equally adept at hook shots and halftime renditions on the accordion, died last Thursday at his home in Laconia, N.H. He was 71. The cause was
 W. Harcourt Woods, an articulate and tireless advocate of tennis's international Davis Cup team competition, who for four decades served the United States Tennis Association in a range of administrative posts, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 85. Mr. Woods was 
 Wallace Justin Campbell, a founding director of CARE, the international relief and development organization, who originated the concept of the CARE package, died last Wednesday at the Solheim Lutheran Home in Los Angeles, where he had moved in November from Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87.      
 BALLOCH-Anthony Edward, 81. Of Atlanta died January 13, 1998. Formerly of Wilton, CT. Survived by his wife Mary Chase Balloch; daughters Pat Tuff of Atlanta, Joy Ahrens of Yarmouth, ME; sons Howard Balloch of Beijing, China, Hugh Balloch, Darien, Connecticut; sixteen grandchildren. A memori
 BRUCKER-Manuel. The Management and Staff of TotalTel USA Communications, Inc., with great sorrow, mourn the passing of our Founder and former Chairman. He planted the seed from which the company has grown to a successful and respected participant in the exciting world-wide telecommunication
 EHRLICH-Myron B. Age 89. Died January 11, 1998; formerly of NYC; survived by nephews John and Robert Herzfeld. He was an active volunteer at the Metropolitan Opera and the Jewish Guild for the Blind. The body was cremated.       
 ELLIS-John Taylor, MD. January 10th, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence. Born Lufkin, Texas, 1920; graduated from Univ. of Texas Austin and Northwestern Univ. Medical School, Chicago. Captain, Brooke General Hospital, San Antonio. Came to Cornel Univ. Medical College, 1948, in Pathology. Rem
 GOSIN-Sydney. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to our esteemed partner, Barry Gosin, on the passing of his beloved father, Sydney. We would also like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire family, most especially Irene, Sydney's wife. Ma
 GRASHEIM-Edmund S. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie and the late Elinor. Devoted father of Marilyn Richter. Adoring grandfather of Elizabeth Werner, Nina Richter and William Krieger. Donations in his memory may be made to the Museum of Modern Art or Recordings for the Blind.       
 HELPERN-Irving E. Age 90, on January 12. Beloved husband of Leona for 60 special years. Loving and proud father of David, Anne Bookstein, and Robert, and of their spouses Joan, Herbert Bookstein, and Jacqueline. Adored grandfather of Lauren; Peter, Scott and his wife Desiree, Jeffrey, and M
 HOROWITZ-Stanley Saul. October 18, 1916-January 12, 1998. Survived by his wife of 25 years, Veronica, four children, Miriam, Mark, Susan and Reina; son-in-law Richard Meisler, daughter-in-law Mary; seven grandchildren, Joshua, Daniel, Jason, Sarah, Bennett, Rebecca and Joseph; his brother L
 KAPLAN-Abe. Beloved husband of Ruth, father of Judy and Stanley Kaplan. Grandfather of Miriam and Zev Kaplan, Deborah and Neal Beylus, Duvy and Benji Kaplan. He was an honest and humble man, who displayed kindness and consideration to all.       
 KATZ-Dr. Lester. On his 90th birthday. Dearest husband of Laura. Devoted father of Carolyn and Jason Moss. Cherished grandfather of Peter and Susan. Loving brother of Dr. Sidney. Services at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 312 Coney Island Ave. (at Prospect Park) Brooklyn, today at 11:30 AM.   
 KAVALER-Frederic. The SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourns the loss of Dr. Frederic Kavaler, Professor of Physiology, and a pioneer in cardiac electrophysiology . We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Rebecca, his sons Matt and Joshua, his brother Arthur and other family a
 MINICH-Arthur. Age 91, of Palm Beach, Florida and formerly of Westfield, NJ, died on Sunday, January 11, 1998 at his residence. He had retired in 1969 from Tenneco Chemicals, Inc. as Senior VicePresident after 37 years of service in the chemical industry. Prior to joining Tenneco, Mr. Minic
 RODGERS-Ralph Ray. January 11, 1998. Loving father of Marc, Kenneth, Rand and Nancy. Adoring grandfather of Jill Karen. Services 12:30 PM Wednesday, Congregation KTI, 575 King St., Port Chester, New York. RODGERS-Ralph. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club not
 SCHLANGER-Martin A. The family of Martin A. Schlanger records with great sadness his sudden passing on Monday, January 12, 1998 at Longboat Key, Florida. The chairman of Martin Auto Group, Inc., he was a member of the National Automobile Dealer's Association. He moved to Florida in 1986 fro
 Richard Graff, an owner of Chalone Vineyards, one of California's most prestigious small wineries, and co-founder and chairman emeritus of the Chalone Wine Group, was killed on Friday when a single-engine Cessna he was flying crashed near Salinas, Calif. He was 60. Mr. Graff's plane
 Robert C. Townsend, a chairman and president of Avis Rent-a-Car who went on to write the best-selling book ''Up the Organization: How to Stop the Corporation from Stifling People and Strangling Profits,'' died on Monday while vacationing on the island of Anguilla in the West Indies. He was 
 Hisham Mubarak, a political analyst and one of Egypt's leading human-rights advocates, died on Monday night of a  heart attack. He was 35. Mr. Mubarak's death stunned Cairo's small but growing human-rights community, many of whose members he had trained and intellectually nourished.  Egypti
 AIN - Joseph. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of our Distinguished Honorary Board member who cared deeply about the plight of Jews overseas and helped guide JDC's programs of Rescue, Relief and Recons
 COHEN-Louis John, 61. January 13, 1998. ''Home is the fisherman, home to the sea.'' Dear husband of Susan. Devoted father of Judd and Donna, Kenneth and Jacqueline. Adored grandpa of Erica, Brandon and Daniel. He was a graduate of Woodmere High School and Boston University. As an insurance 
 DOYLE-Arthur. On Jan. 13, 1998. Beloved son of Ellen Dennehy and Thomas M. Doyle. Dear brother of Mary Ellen, Noreen, Thomas, Patrick, Rev. Martin, SJ, Vincent, Brendan and his wife Vivienne, and Denis. Devoted uncle of Kathryn, Elizabeth and Christian. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 M
 FEATHERSTON-Anthony Godfrey, Jr. January 10th, 1998. Of Newton, Massachusetts, formerly of New York City. Beloved father of Anthony G., IV, Jan-Marc, and Carel Pieter. Grandfather of Riley. Brother of Elizabeth A. Featherston-Quick of Edgartown, Mass. Son of the late Dr. Anthony G. and Mabe
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 GORMAN-Francis A., Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Francis A. Gorman, Jr. A life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian
 GREENBERG-Allan A. Allan was a colleague, a mentor, a friend, and an integral part of our lives and our business since he joined The Adler Group in 1959. Our sympathy to his wife Ida, and to his entire family. His memory will be with us always. The Adler Group Louise Grunwald Robert Liberma
 GREENBERG-Alvin, MD. On January 13th, 1998. Loving and adoring husband of Rita, cherished and beloved father of Caren and Linda and devoted father-inlaw of Stephen. Loving grandfather of Jonathan and Daniel. Dear brother of Wallace. Service 1 PM today at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'', 
 HOLLAND-Jack J. Beloved husband of the late Natalie. Loving father of Stephen and Margot, and Richard and Lila. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Al, Joshua, Leslie, Adam and Lisa, and great-grandfather of Zoe. Dear brother of Emil and Sylvia, and the late Louis and Sadie. Cherished un
 IACOBELLIS-Dr. William. A resident of Mount Kisco, died Wednesday, January 14, 1998 at home. He was 85 years old. Dr. Iacobellis was born on March 7, 1912 in New York City to Francis and Archangela Iacobellis. While attending St. Ann's Academy in New York City he won the National Oratorical
 NOLAN-Terence Magie, 56. Of NYC and Southampton, NY on January 13, 1998. Loving husband of Thea Elliott Nolan, devoted father of Christopher Nolan and Hilary Nolan Penlington; grandfather of Patrick Terence Penlington, born January 14. Beloved son of Marion Hance Nolan Slater and the late A
 OBERRENDER-Girard F., MD. Of Ithaca, NY died on January 7, 1998 at the age of 104. Dr. Oberrender was on the staff at Lenox Hill Hospital for sixty years, Director of Otolaryngology from 1945 to 1959 and President of the Medical Board five times. He also held positions with the NYU Medical 
 RAPP-John. The Voluntary Association of Senior Citizens Activities (VASCA) mourns the loss of our friend and Executive Vice President. His generous efforts enhanced the lives of many senior citizens. Our sympathies to his wife, Joy Rapp, and all friends and family members.       
 SCHLANGER-Martin A. The family of Martin A. Schlanger records with great sadness his sudden passing on Monday, January 12, 1998 at Longboat Key, Florida. The chairman of Martin Auto Group, Inc., he was a member of the National Automobile Dealer's Association. He moved to Florida in 1986 fro
 Thomas J. Stanton Jr., a Jersey City banker who helped turn his hometown's waterfront from a moldering stretch of rotten piers and rusty rail yards into a sleek corporate district that came to be known as the Gold Coast, died on Jan. 6 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 69. The c
 John E. Fisher, who served as chief executive of the Nationwide group of insurance companies in the 1980's and directed its national expansion, died on Tuesday at the Indian River Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and had lived in Vero Beach and Worthington, Ohio, a suburb of
 Lawrence Treat, a prolific author of mystery novels and short stories and a founder of the Mystery Writers of America, died on Jan. 7 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 94 and lived on Martha's Vineyard. During a career that spanned some 70 years, Mr. Treat wrote
 AIN-Joseph. It is with deep sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of HIAS note the passing of Joseph Ain, a long time member of our Executive Committee and worldwide advocate on behalf of the organized Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Nor
 BENJAMIN-Roy A. 81. Died at his home in White Plains, N.Y., on January 15, 1998, after a long and valiant fight against cancer. Survived by his wife of 50 years, Betty (Heilbrun) Benjamin; his children, Nancy Benjamin, Kate Spector, and Chip Benjamin; his sons-and daughter-in-law Herbert No
 BULLOUGH-Pierre. Age 44. On January 14, 1998 in Southampton New York, of complications due to AIDS. Beloved son of Henriette and the late Arnold Bullough. Dear brother of Claudine Achter, Eugene, Jeffrey and David Bullough and special nieces and nephews. He is survived by his longtime compa
 CLIFTON-Henry, Jr. Of New York City on January 10, 1998. Founder and Partner of the Law firm of Clifton, Budd & DeMaria. Survived by his wife Loretta, children Jane E. Dockery and Henry S. Clifton, grandchildren Kristen and Jacqueline Burke. Funeral services were private. In lieu of flowers
 COHEN-Louis John, 61. January 13, 1998. ''Home is the fisherman, home to the sea.'' Dear husband of Susan. Devoted father of Judd and Donna, Kenneth and Jacqueline. Adored grandpa of Erica, Brandon and Daniel. He was a graduate of Woodmere High School and Boston University. As an insurance 
 DOYLE-Arthur. On Jan. 13, 1998. Beloved son of Ellen Dennehy and Thomas M. Doyle. Dear brother of Mary Ellen, Noreen, Thomas, Patrick, Rev. Martin, SJ, Vincent, Brendan and his wife Vivienne, and Denis. Devoted uncle of Kathryn, Elizabeth and Christian. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 M
 EAMES-David Todd. On January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Sarah Frost Eames. Father of Peter and Lee. Son of Phyllis and Edwin. Brother of Mona Steiger and Lori Rusack. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, January 18, at 9:45 A.M. Interment is private. 
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 HOLLAND-Jack J. Beloved husband of the late Natalie. Loving father of Stephen and Margot, and Richard and Lila. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Al, Joshua, Leslie, Adam and Lisa, and great-grandfather of Zoe. Dear brother of Emil and Sylvia, and the late Louis and Sadie. Cherished un
 KAUFMANN-Roger D. On January 14, 1998. Survived by his wife Norma, sister Virginia K. Solis-Cohen, niece Betsy S-C Rizza and nephew David H. Solis-Cohen III. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Friday, 1pm. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Markle residen
 KOEGEL-George J., 71. Of New Canaan, CT., died on Wednesday, January 14th at his home. He was formerly of Garden City, L.I. Retired Divisional Manager of Malden Mills and Sales Manager with J.C. Penney of Texas and New York. Beloved husband of Rita (nee Wulforst). Loving father of Diane Niz
 MARCUS-Zola Carl. Artist and educator, died on January 12, in his 83rd year. He is survived by a niece, Julie Feinsilver, now in El Salvador, and two nephews, Alan Feinsilver of Houston and Sherman Marcus of Israel. A service will be held at The Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madiso
 McNAMARA-Thomas M. On Wednesday, January 7, 1998, of primary liver cancer. Beloved brother of Susie McNamara-Peck. Born in Washington, D.C., Tom moved to New York City in 1983. There, he founded Conditioning Fitness Design, Inc., a company that was among the first to offer personalized fitn
 POWSNER-Dr. Norman. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our member, Norman Powsner. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to Barbara and the family. Peter Agins, President       
 RODMAN-Morris. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem mourn the death of Morris Rodman, Founder of the Ruth Youth Wing of the Israel Museum. He was enormously generous to the Israel Museum for more than thirty years.
 SANTOMARENA-Anthony, M.D. On January 12, 1998. Survived by many relatives and friends. He will be missed by all. Donations to Calvary Hospital, Bronx, NY. Ralph Giordano FH, Bronx, New York.       
 STONE-Henry. Poet and lawyer. Henry Stone, a semi-retired lawyer and poet, died in New York City just prior to his 90th birthday. Mr. Stone practiced law in New York for many years, at one time associated with Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballentine, with Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, later
 VINITSKY-Chaim. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Chaim Vinitsky, an exceptional Jewish communal leader who was deeply dedicated to helping others. As the former Director General and founder of the United Jewish AppealIsrael Offic
 Vladimir Prelog, a Swiss chemist whose pioneering insights into the shape of complex biological molecules were honored with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1975, died on Jan. 7 in Zurich. He was 91. His death was reported on Tuesday by the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zu
 John C. Bradford, a former art director in the recording and publishing business, died on Dec. 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause of death was lung cancer, said his nephew, Bradford Guthrie. From 1970 until he 
 Junior Wells, a blues singer and harmonica player who was one of the  major players of Chicago's dynamic, funky, electric blues sound in the late 1950's and 60's and an influential figure in the Chicago blues style, died on Thursday at Weiss Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and lived
 EAMES-David Todd. On January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Sarah Frost Eames. Father of Peter and Lee. Son of Phyllis and Edwin. Brother of Mona Steiger and Lori Rusack. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, January 18, at 9:45 A.M. Interment is private. 
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 GREENBERG-Howard M. On January 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Annabelle. Devoted father of Carrie and Nancy. Dear brother of Lawrence. Cherished grandfather of Tara, Destiny and Darcy. He lived to teach Social Studies at Long Beach High School and Nassau Commubnity College. He will be greatly
 HOLLAND-Jack. The Orkin family mourns the loss of our beloved uncle Jack. Cherished brother of Sylvia Holland Orkin and loving uncle of Fred and Susan Orkin and their children Jennifer and Jeffrey and of Stuart and Roslyn Orkin and their daughter Jane. Uncle Jack's strength, generosity and 
 KAPLAN-Harold I. M.D. On January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancy Barrett Kaplan. Loving father of Phillip, Peter Mark and Jennifer. Dear brother of Vivienne Brickman, Annette Dresdner and Gerald. Devoted grandfather of Alexander D'Addio and Wildon Kaplan. Service Monday, 9:45AM at Frank 
 LIVINGSTONE-Seabourn Scherer (Skid). Beloved husband of Kay Will Livingstone, died suddenly of a heart attack at his home in Hobe Sound, FL at the age of 74, on Wednesday, January 14, 1998. Mr. Livingstone was born in Detroit, MI and graduated from the Berkshire School and Yale University. 
 RUDERMAN-Paul Robert. Treasured son of Abe and Pearl. Loving brother of David. Loved by all who knew him. His spirit is free. Services Old Montefiore Cemetery, Sunday 11AM.       
 SIMONETTi-Rev. Gennaro M. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of Our Lady of Miracles Church, 757 E. 86th St., Brooklyn on Jan. 16. Reposing in Guarino Funeral Home, 9222 Flatlands Ave., Brooklyn, Sunday, Jan. 18, 25 and 7-10 P.M. and Monday, Jan. 19, 2-5 P.M.
 T. Wayne Robertson, who became one of the most influential leaders in American motor sports as an executive with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., died on Wednesday during a hunting trip in Louisiana. He was 47. Mr. Robertson was one of six duck hunters killed in a boating collision with 
 Tom Gentry, a wealthy real estate developer whose fascination with powerboat racing brought him several world records, died at home in Honolulu Thursday, nearly four years after a severe crash at a world championship left him hospitalized and in a coma. He was 67. Mr. Gentry died of
 Edmund Morris, an actor, playwright and screenwriter whose drama ''The Wooden Dish'' was performed on Broadway and elsewhere,  died on Jan. 6 in Providence Hospital near his home in Seattle. He was 85. ''The Wooden Dish,'' about a Texas codger whose son and daughter-in-law try to pa
 Joseph S. Murphy, the son of a labor organizer and a champion of the working class who rose to become Chancellor of the City University of New York, died in an automobile accident near Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, yesterday. He was 64. It was not clear last night what Mr. Murphy, who had 
 Dr. Geoffrey S. Watson, a statistician who helped write a classic formula that has given economists and other researchers more confidence in their predictions, died on Jan. 3 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Dr. Watson, who lived in Princeton, N.J., was 76.       
 Jim Feeney, an ABC-TV sports producer whose three decades of work included ''Wide World of Sports'' and coverage of the Olympics, died last Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. In 1970, the fir
 Captain Jimmie Albright, a fly-fishing innovator and pioneer who guided and became friends with some of the most celebrated anglers of his time, died of cancer last Sunday in Islamorada, Fla. He was 82. Albright invented two knots indispensable to anglers, the nail knot and the Albr
 BARRY-Andrew P. The Michel family is profoundly saddened by the passing of our dear friend Andy. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Our love and support will always be there for Andy's beloved wife Frannie and his loving children Nora and Michael, and Neil and Christophe
 CLARK-Cameron. January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. Memorial service, Tuesday, January 20, 10:30 AM at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 73 St., NYC.      
 FISCHL-Kamil. On January 14, 1998 at the age of 103-1/2 years. Born in Lzin, Czechoslovakia. Devoted father of Doris and Robert and their spouses Meir and Ruth. Grandfather of Yael, Ellen, Daniel and Ronnit and their spouses Chris, Oran, Lee Anne and Michael, great grandfather of Michael, A
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 GREENBERG-Herman ''Hank'', 66, of Ft. Lee, NJ and Upper Greenwood Lake, NJ, passed away January 16, 1998 after a long valiant battle with cancer. A 40year member of Temple Gates of Prayer, of Flushing NY, Mr. Greenberg was a past president and a member of the Board of Trustees. He also chai
 GROSSMAN-Herb. We at Beacon Laboratories deeply grieve and mourn his death and miss him as our friend and colleague. A brilliant professional with great vision who treated all with the utmost warmth and care. We're fortunate to have had the pleasure of working with Herb.       
 HOLLAND-Jack. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of a respected member of our Society of Founders, who with his family, did much to enhance the educational and research programs at our institution. To his children, Stephen and Margo
 IMPARATO-Arthur J., 75, founder and publisher of the fashion newspaper Fabricnews. Husband of international fashion journalist Marylou Luther Imparato, January 16, of heart failure. In addition to his wife, Mr. Imparato is survived by three sons Arthur J. Imparato, Jr, of Beverly Hills, CA,
 KAPLAN-Harold I., M.D. On January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Nancy Barrett Kaplan. Loving father of Phillip, Peter Mark and Jennifer. Dear brother of Vivienne Brickman, Annette Dresdner and Gerald. Devoted grandfather of Alexander D'Addio and Wildon Kaplan. Family will receive friends Sun
 LANE-William. Our heartfelt sympathy from our family to yours. His humor and wit lives on. Renee, Marshall, Brian, Debra, Sage, Dean, Corinne and Michael, Sylvia and Cheryl       
 MARCUS-Zola Carl. Artist and educator, died on January 12, in his 83rd year. He is survived by a niece, Julie Feinsilver, now in El Salvador, and two nephews, Alan Feinsilver of Houston and Sherman Marcus of Israel. A service will be held at The Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madiso
 PERRY-William G., Jr. February 13, 1913-January 12, 1998. Professor of Education and founder of Harvard's Bureau of Study Counsel, died of pneumonia on January 12, 1998, in Boston. Mr. Perry began his life-long relationship with Harvard University as an undergraduate, receiving his B.A. in 
 RIESENFELD-William A. The Officers, Board members and the entire Beth Abraham Health Services community are profoundly saddened by the death of William Riesenfeld and mourn his passing. Bill approached everything he did with commitment and dedication, whether it was sports fishing (he held 
 SILVERZWEIG-Stan. Age 61, of Park City, Utah, formerly of New City, NY, on January 11. Survived by his wife, Mary Zenorini Silverzweig and their three children Zachary, Joseph and Rebecca, as well as three daughters from his first marriage Jennifer, Leslie and Amy. He is also survived by hi
 SIMSON-Gerald Philip. Rochester, New York, 77 years. On January 12 after a years illness. Beloved husband of Gloria (nee Susnow) for 56 years, loving father of Maxine and David and his life-partner Dan Chesbro. Devoted brother of Gloria Joffe and Carol Rivner, cherished brother-in-law of Ce
 von WURTZLER-Aristid. Suddenly during a concert tour of Hungary, November 30, 1997. Noted harpist, conductor, composer and pedagogue. Survived by his wife Barbara and brother Bela. Cremated and interred in Budapest.       
 Alexander M. Selinger, an Italian-born, Czech-reared businessman who brought the sweet taste of Austria and Hungary to a generation of Middle European refugees on the Upper West Side, died on Jan. 12 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 and had operated the Eclair B
 Charles E. Claggett, the former president and chairman of the Gardner Advertising Company, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Claggett joined Gardner, a St. Louis advertising agency, as a copywriter in 1931. He stayed with Gardner for 37 years, helping to 
 Dr. Ira Progoff, a New York psychotherapist and author known for an intensive journal-writing method he developed as a way to encourage personal growth, died on Jan. 1 at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was progressive supranuclear pal
 Joseph S. Murphy, the son of a labor organizer and a champion of the working class who became Chancellor of the City University of New York, died in an automobile accident near Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Saturday. He was 64. Dr. Murphy, whose doctorate was in political science, had j
 BICKERMAN-Milton. Age 83, on January 17, 1998. A sweet, gentle and generous man. We will miss your warmth, your good counsel and your laughter. Cherished husband of Leonore for more than 50 years. Loving father of Barbara, John and his wife Debra, and Michael. Proud grandfather of Gregory a
 CARGILL-William Burnell, 42, of Southport, CT, died on January 15 in a yachting accident off the Florida coast near Key Largo. He is survived by his beloved wife Virginia and sons Stephen and William, his sisters Sissy Biggers, Molly Spruance, Sarah Brundage, and half-sister Alexandra Cargi
 CLARK-Cameron. January 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. Memorial service, Tuesday, January 20, 10:30 AM at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 73 St., NYC.      
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 GREENBERG-Herman. The officers, trustees, and members of Temple Gates of Prayer record with profound sorrow the passing of our past President, Herman Greenberg. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Connie, to his children Stewart, Karen and Judy, their spouses and children, to hi
 JOHNSTON-James I. The family of James I. Johnston bade farewell to a loving husband and father who passed away January 17, 1998. Jim, a 1953 graduate of the University of Pittsburgh, began his career as a Certified Public Accountant at Touche Ross and Co. After becoming a partner, he was a 
 SCHREIBMAN-Alex a.k.a. Allan Small. 87, died Saturday in his home at Boca Raton, FL. He was a noted pianist, composer, arranger and music teacher. He is survived by his wife, Lucille and three children. Graveside service will be held Tuesday, January 20, at New Montefiore Cemetery in Pinela
 SLOTA-D. Fred. January 16. Age 83, of Allentown, PA, formerly of Long Island City, NY. Survived by his wife Helen A. Autenrieth Slota, of Allentown, PA; brother Michael of Rockville Centre, NY; two daughters Eileen Harkless of Edison, NJ, and Karen Legg of Allentown; and four grandchildren.
 WORTH-Samuel. On January 17, died at his home in Palm Aire, Pompano, FL. Cherished husband of Goldie for 61 years. Devoted father to Harvey and to Theona Deutsch, loving grandfather to Danny, Michael, Douglas, Beth and Jacquelyn. Founding member and former president of Hollis Hills Jewish C
 Willis Green Jr., a nationally known advocate for people with AIDS, a professional social worker and, most recently, the executive director of the Harlem United Community AIDS Center, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 50 and lived in Rego Park, Queens.     
 Carl Perkins, the pioneering rockabilly singer, songwriter and guitarist who wrote ''Blue Suede Shoes,'' died yesterday in Jackson, Tenn., where he lived. He was 65. He died of complications related to a recent series of strokes, said a family spokesman, Albert Hall. Mr. Per
 D'ALTON-Clarence J., M.D. On January 15, 1998, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Warren, CT., and New York, New York. Born Petersburg, VA, April 25, 1918. Graduated from Canterbury School June 8, 1935, B.A. Yale 1939, MD Columbia 1943, Member Alpha Omega Alpha, recipient of Harold Lee Meierhof 
 GOLDBERGER-Samuel. Beloved husband of the late Esther and beloved father and father-in-law of Steve and Wanda Gilbert, Ronald and Amy Goldberger, Howard and Lynn Gross and beloved grandfather of Wayne, Adam, Joshua and Jordan Gilbert, Jacob and Edward Goldberger and Jennifer and Jeffrey Gro
 HARASZTI-Alexander S., Dr. His family and numerous friends will greatly miss Dr. Alexander S. Haraszti, who died on Jan. 16, 1998 in Atlanta. Dr. Haraszti was an ordained Baptist minister, a linguist who spoke eight languages, and a physician who practiced first as an obstetrician-gynecolog
 MILLER-Aaron D. Friday, Jan. 16, 1998, of East Orange, formerly of Jersey City, Glen Ridge and Fort Lee, N.J. Beloved husband of the late Edith Miller, devoted father of Lenore Urdang and Roslyn Romanow, loving grandfather of Scott, Meryl, Seth and Aimee, great grandfather of Jennifer, Meli
 MURPHY-Joseph. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Joseph Murphy, former Chancellor of the City University of New York. A respected educator and humanitarian, Professor Murphy was an earnest supporter of Mount Sinai School of
 O'LEARY-Rev. William A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Benedict Joseph Labre Church, 94-40 188th St, Richmond Hill, January 17. Reposing LeahyMcDonald Funeral Home, 111-02 Atlantic Avenue, Richmond Hill, Tuesday, January 20, from 2 to 4:30 and 7 to
 POLLACK-Philip Eli. Beloved and devoted husband of Edith Hirsh. Beloved father of Alan (Iris) and Gary (Robin). Devoted grandfather of Hal, Jonah, Ben and Lea. Brother of Florence Hirshfield. POLLACK-Philip. The members of Temple Beth-El of Manhattan Beach are profoundly saddened by
 RIESENFELD-William A. The Officers, Board members and the entire Beth Abraham Health Services community are profoundly saddened by the death of William Riesenfeld and mourn his passing. Bill approached everything he did with commitment and dedication, whether it was sports fishing (he held 
 SEVUSH-David. With his passing on January 19th, 1998, the world became a poorer place. Born on June 29, 1922, he fought for his country in World War II and returned from the Pacific to marry and raise a family. Though he had to leave school during the Depression, he was a lover of learning 
 SMITH - Louis. Of Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved, caring and devoted husband to Minerva. Father to Richard and Jerome. Father-in-law to Julia and Natalie. Grandfather to Jessica, Matthew, Alexander and Douglas. Passed gently into the night on January 17, 1998, with his family at his side. We wi
 WEISSMAN-Milton L., 89. January 18, 1998. Formerly of New York City and currently San Diego, CA. Most devoted and loving husband of Helen H. Weissman for 65 years. Magnificent and loving father of Stephen Bruce Weissman. Deeply caring and loving grandfather of Stephanie Bryn Weissman Clemen
 GRAFTON-Samuel. A memorial service to celebrate the life of Samuel Grafton will be held at Frank E. Campbell Chapel, 81st and Madison, on Friday, January 23, at 2:30 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Authors League Fund.       
 Alan E. Cober, an innovative magazine, newspaper and book illustrator and a graphic commentator known for his visual essays on the death chamber at Sing Sing prison and on mental patients at the Willowbrook State School on Staten Island, died on Saturday while swimming in Sarasota, Fla. He 
 David (Junior) Kimbrough, a Mississippi bluesman who ran his own juke joints for more than 30 years, died on Saturday in Holly Springs, Miss., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, according to a report in The Memphis Commercial Appeal. Mr. Kimbrough playe
 CHAZEN-Geoffrey David. Beloved husband of Jamie Rachel, father of Zoe Alexandra and Charlotte Annabel, died at age 39. According to his wishes, the family has donated his body to the Microbiology Dept. at NYU Medical Center. Shiva will be observed at 101 Central Park West. A memorial servic
 COBER-Alan E. We are profoundly saddened by the untimely death of our colleague and friend. His spirit, energy and humor, as well as devotion to his family will always be remembered. A world renowned illustrator and visual journalist, he was best known for his work in many national magazine
 DONNENFELD-Hyman, MD. The Medical Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York expresses its deep sorrow at the loss of one of its most honored and respected members, Dr. Hyman Donnenfeld. Dr. Donnenfeld enjoyed a thiry-year career with Saint Vincents as a Neurologist and
 GOTTLIEB-Edward. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute are saddened by the passing of Edward Gottlieb, distinguished Trustee, committed friend and loyal benefactor of the hospital. His lifetime of dedicated work, enc
 HAMMER-Hon. Zevulun. The Orthodox Union mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Israel's Minister of Education and Culture, Deputy Prime Minister, head of the National Religious Party, a creative force for Torah education and the strengthening of Israel and its Torah commun
 KAPLAN-Harold I., M.D.. The faculty and staff of the Department of Psychiatry of New York University Medical Center and the entire community of New York University School of Medicine wish to express our profound sorrow on the passing of our esteemed colleague, Harold I. Kaplan, on January 1
 KASSL-Robert A. We note with profound sorrow the death of Robert A. Kassl, President of Karey-Kassl Corporation. Devoted husband of Joan-Marie. Loving father of Robert N. and Marliese. Cherished grandfather of Andrew, Adam, Katherine, Thomas, and Bradley. He was deeply admired and respected
 KOOPER-Samuel, Esq. The Hollis Hills Jewish Center expresses profound sorrow on the passing of our esteemed past-president, Samuel Kooper, Esq. We offer our deepest prayers for comfort to his beloved wife and past-president of Sisterhood, Natalie, and family.       
 MATTERSDORF-Gustav. Age 93 of Lakehurst, NJ, January 19, at home. Beloved husband of Doris Koedding Mattersdorf for 22 years. Mr. Mattersdorf was a CPA for the State of New York, Dept. of Labor, NYC, at the time of his retirement. He was Area Director Field Tax Service Man-Bronx Area (35 ye
 McNULTY-Raymond Patrick. On January 19, 1998, of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Loving father and father-inlaw of Kevin and Mary, Diane and Jim Wolfe, Patricia and Gerald Langlade, and Maureen and Frank Pichl. Devoted grandfather to Jennifer and Juliette, Tommy Finn, Laur
 MURPHY-Joseph S. Charismatic and wonderfully accessible to students and staff, Joseph S. Murphy was the outgoing and dynamic 5th President of Queens College. It was a terrible blow to all of us to learn of the accidental death of so vital and accomplished a friend and colleague. The College
 RODOLITZ-Abraham. Beloved husband of almost 57 years to Anna. Father of Eileen, Gary, Jerry, Bruce and Scott. Fatherin-law to their respective spouses, and loving grandfather to ten grandchildren. Died suddenly on January 20. Immeasureably loved and admired by family and friends. He will be
 SCHEIN-Leo. On January 20, 1998. Retired January 8, 1959 after 25 years as Assistant Civil Engineer for NYC. Served in U.S. Army in the same capacity from 1941-1943. Along with his younger brother, George Schein, they helped organize and they founded the U.S. Table Tennis Association in the
 TAUB-Hyman. Of the Bronx on January 19. Loving husband of Sally. Devoted father of Joel and Richard Taub, Beth and Mark Grossman. Brother of Sylvia Lupo. He is also survived by four grandchildren. Services will be held at the Garlick Riverside Chapel, 1439 Unionport Road, Bronx on Wednesday
 VINITSKY-Chaim. The Officers, Trustees and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of Chaim Vinitsky, known as ''Mr. Israel'' by so many JDC, UJA, and top Federation leaders. A man of warmth, decency and caring, he labored valiantly fo
 WORTH-Samuel. The Hollis Hills Jewish Center expresses our profound sorrow upon the passing of our esteemed past-president, Samuel Worth. We offer our deepest prayers for comfort to his beloved wife, Goldie, and family.       
 Pierre Boulat, a photographer who worked for Life magazine in the 1950's and 60's, died on Jan. 11 in Nemours, France. He was 73. Mr. Boulat began his career at the Paris magazine Samedi Soir in 1945, photographing everything from the singer Edith Piaf to life in Palestine. His phot
 Zevulun Hammer, Israel's Education Minister, leader of the National Religious Party and a founder of the movement to build Jewish settlements in occupied Arab territories, died today after a long bout with cancer. He was 61. Though Mr. Hammer led his party from being a relatively li
 Harry S. Ashmore, who was executive editor of The Arkansas Gazette when he won a Pulitzer Prize for antisegregation editorials he wrote during the crisis and confrontation over admission of black students to a Little Rock high school in 1957, died on Tuesday night in the infirmary of the Va
 Larry Gilbert, a prominent golfer on the Senior PGA Tour, died of lung cancer yesterday at Samaritan Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 55. A longtime club professional in Kentucky and Tennessee, Gilbert joined the Senior Tour in 1992 and immediately became a top money-winner. He won
 CHAZEN-Geoffrey David. Beloved husband of Jamie Rachel, father of Zoe Alexandra and Charlotte Annabel, son of Eric and Barbara Chazen of Nashville, TN, sister of Lisa Levine of Washington, DC, grandson of Juliett Grobstein of New Rochelle, NY, son-in-law of Phyllis Zimmerman of NYC, died at
 CLARK-Cameron. Partner in the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. His death occurred suddenly on January 15, 1998 in NYC.     
 COHEN-Jacob. The HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies notes with sadness the death of Jacob Cohen, Ph.D. For the past 10 years, Jack enriched our lives and work with his knowledge, warmth, and wit; we will miss him greatly. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Patricia; t
 DeSTEFANIS-Louis A. Who retired as an executive in the moving and storage industry in 1970, died Jan. 20 at the home of his son, John. He was 92 years old and lived in Southampton, New York. The cause of death was heart failure. Mr. DeStefanis established his own business, Acme Van Company,
 GOTTLIEB-Ed. On January 20, 1998. Great husband, father and a brilliant public relations consultant. Memorial service at a later date. Contributions in his memory to the Hospital for Joint Diseases/Orthopedic Institute. Janet, Liz and Richard       
 HALLINAN-Richard. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the national office of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation mourn the passing of our esteemed former chairman, Richard J. Hallinan, Esq. Mr. Hallinan served as a member of the Board of Trustees from 1965 to 1992 and hel
 HAMMER-Hon. Zevulun. AMIT is profoundly saddened by the very untimely passing of our dear friend and colleague, Israel's Minister of Education and Culture and Deputy Prime Minister. A true Ben Torah and champion of religious Zionism, Zevulun Hammer fostered the growth of religious education
 HASENFELD-Henry. Congregation Ezrath Israel, The Actors Temple, mourns the passing of our esteemed Trustee, dear friend and long time member. We express our sympathy to his family. We will miss him. Robert Goldman, President Naoch Valley, Rabbi       
 LEWIN-Henry. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Dr. Jonathan Lewin on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LEWIN - Milton. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its Honorary Trustee and former Segan, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas LEWIN-Milton. The Partners and staff of Milton N. Hoffman Company are d
 MURPHY-Joseph S. The Board of Trustees, President, faculty and staff of Bennington College mourn the tragic and untimely death of our esteemed former President, Joseph S. Murphy. His leadership of Bennington at a critical time will be remembered with gratitude. We extend our deepest sympath
 PLANICK-William (Bill). Passed away January 20, 1998 in Plano, TX. Survivors daughter Cynthia, son Neil, daughter-in-law Susan, granddaughter Rachel, sister Janice Stone. Also former spouse and lifelong friend Phoebe. Bill was loved by everyone who knew him. Graveside services at 2 P.M. Fri
 ROMANOWSKI-Rev. Francis C. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor emeritus of St. Stanislaus Bishop & Martyr Church, 88-10 102nd Avenue, Ozone Park, on Jan. 20. Reposing in James & Stephen Romanelli Funeral Home, 89-01 Rockaway Blvd., Ozone Park, Thursday, Jan. 22, 2-10 P
 SEIDEL-Dr. Harry, 89. On Jan. 20, 1998, in Williamsburg, VA. A native of New York, Dr. Seidel had a private podiatry practice in Manhattan for 47 years. He was dedicated to his profession and a devoted family man. He is survived by and will be remembered as the beloved husband of Regina for
 YANOFF-Irving. On January 20, 1998. Dear husband of the late Mollie. Beloved father of Judith and son-in-law Russell Rodewald, and Arlene and son-in-law Rick Heckendorn. Loving grandfather of Aimee. We will miss him and remember him always.       
 SASS-Louis DeWald. September 4, 1912-January 22, 1997. Beloved father of Ann and Louis. Father-inlaw of Shira, grandfather of Louisa, William and Juliana. A year has passed, and he is profoundly missed.       
 Gustavo F. Lobo Jr., a leading commodities executive for 57 years, died on Dec. 28 at the Andrus Retirement Community in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Lobo, a resident of Bay Hill, Fla., was 92. Mr. Lobo became president of Olavarria & Company, a New York sugar commodities trading ho
 Jack Lord, the deadpan star of ''Hawaii Five-O'' who made ''Book him, Danno'' a fixture of American slang, died Wednesday at his home in Honolulu. He was 77 and died of congestive heart failure, said Carolyn Tanaka, a spokeswoman for Marie Lord, the actor's wife and only survivor.  
 BENJAMIN-Ivan, Sr. 80. January 20, 1998 (formerly of Guyana). He is survived by his beloved wife Edna of 50 years; his children Edris, Ivor, Ivan Jr., Lolita, Jim and Mortimer; nine grandchildren; and his sisters Christina Burton, 93 years old, and Beatrice James, 85 years old. Viewing Frid
 CLARK-Cameron. Partner in the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. His death occurred suddenly on January 15, 1998 in NYC.     
 GOTTLIEB-Ed. On January 20, 1998. Great husband, father and a brilliant public relations consultant. Memorial service at a later date. Contributions in his memory to the Hospital for Joint Diseases/Orthopedic Institute. Janet, Liz and Richard       
 KIERNAN-Richard Rowen. On January 22, 1998. Husband of Greta and friend and companion of Judy Frisch. Father of Ann, Mark, Paul, John, James Kiernan and Clare Lafferty. Grandfather of ten. Brother of David and Jerry. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street,
 KOLLIN-Rabbi Nathan J. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, age 92. After ordination in 1929, he served congregations in Ottawa, Youngstown, Ohio, Richmond, VA., and Buffalo, NY. In 1953, he assumed the pulpit of Rodef Sholom in Johnstown, PA. from which he retired in
 LEWIN-Milton. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our uncle who we loved very much. We will always cherish our fond memories of him. Jonathan Lowe Louise and George Miller       
 MENGARINI-Ariel. On January 9, 1998, Ariel Mengarini, M.D. board certified psychiatrist, born October 19, 1919 in Rome to what the Dictionary of American Biography calls ''a distinguished Roman family.'' Ariel, with his mother, the sculptress Fausta Vittoria Mengarini, came to the United St
 SEIGEL-Samuel E. Attorney and Counselor at Law, on January 21, 1998; only twelve days after the passing of his beloved wife and best friend, Pauline M. Seigel. Born March 29, 1912. He was a community leader, innovative President of the Kiwanis Club of Elmont, NY and founding chairman of the
 SOLOMON-Louis A. (Buddy). Suddenly on January 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Bernice (nee Fiering). Devoted father of Sally Cohen and Richard Solomon. Caring fatherin-law of Arnold Cohen and Carol Solomon. Dear brother of Frances Litman. Cherished grandfather of Joseph Resignato, William Solo
 SORKIN-Charles. All of us at the East Midwood Jewish Center profoundly mourn the passing of Charles Sorkin, Honorary Trustee, long-time member, and devoted leader of our synagogue. His sincerity, decency and hard work made him a invaluable resource. We pray that God will send His blessings 
 TANG-Ziang Tsien, M.D. On Jan. 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Lynn, father of Henry, Frank and Lillian and grandfather of David and Penelope. Services today, Friday, 11 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Interment to follow at Kensico Cemetery. In lieu of flowers contributio
 Edward Safani, founder of one of the oldest galleries of ancient art in the United States, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. He founded the Safani Gallery, on Madison Avenue near 76th Street, in 1946. He sold ancient art from Greece, Rome, Egypt and the 
 J. Austin Lyons Jr., a former general counsel at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Jan. 8 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 75. The cause of death was complications from pancreatic cancer, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Lyons joined the c
 CLARK-Cameron. Partner in the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. His death occurred suddenly on January 15, 1998 in NYC.     
 KURASCH-Martin. 84. On January 23, 1998 in Stamford, CT. Loving husband of the late Lillian. Brilliant U.S. government career, serving as lawyer for War Labor Board, NLRB, General Counsel for Wage Stabilization Board and Rural Electrification Union. In 1951, he was First General Counsel and
 LEWIN-Milton. The community of the Abraham Joshua Heschel School expresses heartfelt condolences to our devoted trustee, John Lewin on the death of his beloved father. May all the members of the Becker-Lewin family be comforted by his noble memory. Terry Krulwich, President Roanna Shorofsky
 MAY-Samuel D. 87. On January 22, 1998. Loving husband of Isabel. Beloved father of Linda and Stephen Sklar, and Leni and Peter May. Adored grandfather of Marci and Stu, Caryn, Kenny and Vivian, and Jon and Juliana, and Leslie and Andrew. Great-grandfather of Alison, Carlee and Jake. Brother
 RODMAN-Morris. The officers, trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of Morris Rodman, a longtime member of the JDC Board and a prominent leader nationally and in world Jewry. In addition to his JDC activities, he played a
 WILKOFF-Howard M. With profound sorrow, the leadership of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations notes the death of our Honorary Life Treasurer. He served our cause with great devotion for many years and chaired numerous critical committees. A man of wit and wisdom, Howard was a source 
 Richard T. Kennedy, a former Army colonel and statesman who was responsible for the Government's nuclear nonproliferation policy during the final years of the cold war, died on Jan. 12 at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Washington. The cause of death was compl
 Strother MacMinn, who taught automotive design for 50 years at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif., and whose students went on to become leading automotive designers in the United States, Europe and Japan, was found dead on Monday at his home in Pasadena. He was 79.        
 Edmund Anton Stephan, a prominent Chicago lawyer who three decades ago shepherded a precedent-setting conversion in the governing of the University of Notre Dame, died on Jan. 16 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 86 and lived in the nearby town of Wilmette. It was as a N
 Emil Sitka, a character actor who portrayed butlers and others with such exquisite dignity and in such rarefied company it was inevitable that if he didn't get poked in the eye or bopped on the head he was sure to catch a cream pie in the kisser, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital near his home 
 John Paul Monahan 3d, a lawyer and NBC News legal analyst, died yesterday of cancer at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. The husband of Katie Couric, the NBC ''Today'' host, Mr. Monahan was 42 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Monahan, who went by the name Jay, had provided legal analysis
 AMSTERDAM-Jack. On January 23, 1998. Chairman of the Board of Leviton Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Leviton Amsterdam. Devoted father of Dasha Epstein. Caring and loving grandfather of Robert and Danielle Epstein. Dear brother of Jean Ross. Loyal and best friend of Mimi
 CLARK-Cameron. Partner in the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. Beloved husband of Sheila. Father of Eliza and Simon. Brother of Timothy and Ian Clark. Son of Blair Clark and the late Jessie Holladay Philbin James. His death occurred suddenly on January 15, 1998 in NYC.     
 GOTTLIEB-Ed. On January 20, 1998. Great husband, father and a brilliant public relations consultant. Memorial service at a later date. Contributions in his memory to the Hospital for Joint Diseases/Orthopedic Institute. Janet, Liz and Richard       
 KIERNAN-Richard Rowen. On January 22, 1998. Husband of Greta and friend and companion of Judy Frisch. Father of Ann, Mark, Paul, John, James Kiernan and Clare Lafferty. Grandfather of ten. Brother of David and Jerry. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street,
 LEAVEY-John G., a retired IBM executive, died on January 21. Mr. Leavey was 74 and died of pneumonia He joined IBM in 1957 and spent over 34 years as a special activities executive. He is survived by his wife Lorraine, his sons James, John and William, and his five grandchildren, Christophe
 MAY-Samuel D. 87. On January 22, 1998. Loving husband of Isabel. Beloved father of Linda and Stephen Sklar, and Leni and Peter May. Adored grandfather of Marci and Stu, Caryn, Kenny and Vivian, and Jon and Juliana, and Leslie and Andrew. Great-grandfather of Alison, Carlee and Jake. Brother
 MENGARINI-Ariel. On January 9, 1998, Ariel Mengarini, M.D. board certified psychiatrist, born October 19, 1919 in Rome to what the Dictionary of American Biography calls ''a distinguished Roman family.'' Ariel, with his mother, the sculptress Fausta Vittoria Mengarini, came to the United St
 MILLSTEIN-Alan G. On Friday, January 23, 1998. Dear friend, former husband. A man of piercing intelligence, uncommon wit, unique perspective, with wide interests in art, theater, the cinema, and a love of New York City. I am eternally grateful to him for always making me laugh and for intro
 PARAUDA-Joseph R. The Putney Twombly Family mourns the loss of our dear friend and respected Managing Partner who died on January 23, 1998. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Martina, their children and family. We share your loss. The Partners, Associates and Staff Putney Twombly H
 RICHMAN-Jeffrey. On January 23, 1998. Adored husband of Gail (nee Freeman). Cherished and loving father of Adam. Special brother to David. An incredibly considerate friend who will be missed by all who knew him. Funeral services will be held today, 10 AM at Kirschenbaum Bros. Funeral Chapel
 ROSENBERG-Louis L. On January 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Sherry. Loving father of Michael and Karen. Adoring grandfather of David, Jenna, Joshua and Marissa. Devoted brother of Pearl Lamberg, Ruth Russ and Emanuel. Visiting Sunday 7-9 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Se
 SCHNEIDER-William Eitel. 88 Died Friday, January 23, 1998. A native of Bronx, NY, he had resided in Westport, CT for more than 40 years prior to moving to Virginia. Mr. Schneider retired in 1984 as Vice President of Business Affairs for the television and radio departments at Benton & Bowle
 SCHOEN-Lawrence C., Esq. Beloved and devoted husband of Marlene. Beloved father of Matthew, Kathy and Amy. Grandfather of Kasey and Sarah. Son of Flora and the late Arthur Schoen. Brother of Dr. Jocelyn Malkin. All of us who loved him mourn his passing. Memorial services were held in Woodme
 SEIGEL-Samuel E. Attorney and Counselor at Law, on January 21, 1998; only twelve days after the passing of his beloved wife and best friend, Pauline M. Seigel. Born March 29, 1912. He was a community leader, innovative President of the Kiwanis Club of Elmont, NY and founding chairman of the
 SUTRO-Ogden Winne. Of Long Hill Farm in Guilford, CT died Wednesday evening January 14, 1998, at the age of 84. Mr. Sutro was a Connecticut businessman who devoted much of his time and interest to the Boy Scouts, Education and the development of industry in Southern Connecticut which includ
 Alan Gary Millstein, the affable, ever-quotable consultant to the retail and fashion industry, died Friday at New York Hospital. Mr. Millstein, who was 54, died of myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease, said Robert Wolf, a family spokesman. Mr. Millstein, who got his start in his un
 Charles Schucker, a second-generation Abstract Expressionist, died on Jan. 17 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn Heights. He was 89 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. Mr. Schucker was born in Gap, Pa., in 1908 and attended the Maryland Institute College of Art in Baltimore, gra
 Maj. Gen. Ralph Corbett Smith, a rugged Nebraskan who was decorated for bravery in World War I, commanded an infantry division in combat in the Pacific in World War II and became the oldest surviving general officer of the United States Army, died on Wednesday at his home in Palo Alto, Cali
 George T. Wendelken, who played Freckles in the original ''Our Gang'' film comedies of the 1920's, died on  Jan. 3. He was 81 and lived in Toms River, N.J. After his career as a child star, Mr. Wendelken gained prominence during World War II. He served in the Seabees, the United Sta
 John Paul Monahan 3d, a lawyer and NBC News legal analyst, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. The husband of Katie Couric, the host of NBC's ''Today'' program, Mr. Monahan was 42 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, said Erica Proto, an NBC News spo
 AMSTERDAM-Jack. On January 23, 1998. Chairman of the Board of Leviton Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Leviton Amsterdam. Devoted father of Dasha Epstein. Caring and loving grandfather of Robert and Danielle Epstein. Dear brother of Jean Ross. Loyal and best friend of Mimi
 ARCHIBALD-William T. The Officers and Board of Governors, along with the entire membership of the Circumnavigators Club, mourn the passing of their revered Bill, who served as President in 1981-1982, and Foundation President in 1986-1988. He will be long remembered.       
 ASHMORE-Harry S. Pulitzer Prize winning Editor of the Arkansas Gazette, courageous civil rights leader and brave crusader against segregation, for over 40 years was an active member of the Board of Directors of the National Committee for an Effective Congress. His colleagues at the NCEC wil
 CONNAUGHTON-William G. Of Fort Collins, CO. Died January 23, 1998. He is survived by his wife Phyllis Ainsworth Connaughton, three children, eight grandchildren and one brother. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the American Cancer Society in his name.       
 EIGERMAN-Hyman. On Saturday, January 24, 1998, in Cambridge, MA, a lifelong New Yorker. For 65 years, the beloved and loving husband of Leah. Always caring father of Daniel, Joel and Sarah. Loving, proud and supportive grandfather of Hannah, Nathan, Edward and Jared. Teacher, Scholar, Educa
 FIORE-Salvatore G., Jr. Of Greenwich, CT, on January 20, 1998. Survived by wife Evelyn, daughter Alison, son Nicholas, and four grandchildren who loved him in life and carry his memory. Services as St. Luke's Church, Darien, CT, January 27.       
 KLEINER-Jack. Devoted father of Robert, Michael and Richard. Proud grandfather of Melissa, Mark, Yvette, Nicholas and Dolly. He cherished the memory of his late wife Barbara. A lifetime member of the Million Dollar Roundtable, he served his clients well. He played basketball for Tilden and 
 LYDGATE-William A. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of former Trustee William A. Lydgate. A former Chairman of the Earl Newsom & Co. public relations concern, he was named Trustee of the Year by the NYS Hospital Trustees Association in 1986. The '
 MAY-Samuel D. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Samuel D. May, beloved father of Peter May, an outstanding leader of UJA-Federation and very generous philanthropist who was instrumental in rescuing hundreds of thousands of Jews from the former
 MILLSTEIN-Alan G. On Friday, January 23, 1998. Dear friend, former husband. A man of piercing intelligence, uncommon wit, unique perspective, with wide interests in art, theater, the cinema, and a love of New York City. I am eternally grateful to him for always making me laugh and for intro
 PARAUDA-Joseph R., Sr. Of Edison, on Friday, January 23, 1998. Services on Tuesday, 8:45 AM, at the Gosselin Funeral Home, 660 New Dover Road, Edison, followed by a 9:30 AM Mass at St. Helena's R.C. Church, Edison. Interment will be held in St. Gertrude's Cemetery in Colonia. Visitation wil
 ROSENBERG-Louis L. On January 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Sherry. Loving father of Michael and Karen. Adoring grandfather of David, Jenna, Joshua and Marissa. Devoted brother of Pearl Lamberg, Ruth Russ and Emanuel. Visiting Sunday 7-9 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Se
 SCHONFELD-Moses. Congregation Shaarei Tikva of the Westchester Religious Institute records with deep sorrow the passing of one of our founding members. May his children and grandchildren be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Charles Rudansky, Rabbi SCHONFELD-Moses. Westchester Da
 SHNEYER-William A. On January 24, 1998. Born April 2, 1921. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Flushing, NY. Beloved community leader and activist, National Executive Committee, past National V.P. of the American Jewish Congress. Past President Queens AJC. Editorial Board ''Jewish Currents'',
 SIMON - Sidney. Of Shaker Heights, OH. Died Saturday, January 17, 1998, at the age of 85. Former President of the M & D Simon Co., makers of Donegal Sportswear. Longtime leader in the Cleveland Jewish community. In his last years, led fundraising efforts for the HELP Foundation, a Cleveland
 ZUTTER-Jean D., age 76, passed away January 22, 1998 in Tucson, AZ. He was born July 8, 1922 in Zurich, Switzerland. Jean spent the majority of his international banking career with the then Irving Trust Co. in New York and Paris, France, retiring in 1989. Most recently, Jean has served as 
 Ben C. Morris, a professor of fashion design at the Savannah College of Art and Design who had an earlier career as a fashion illustrator, died on Jan. 5 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. He was 67 and lived in Savannah. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the co
 AMSTERDAM-Jack. On January 23, 1998. Chairman of the Board of Leviton Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Leviton Amsterdam. Devoted father of Dasha Epstein. Caring and loving grandfather of Robert and Danielle Epstein. Dear brother of Jean Ross. Loyal and best friend of Mimi
 ASHMAWY-Seif. The Board of Directors and staff of the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding note, with sorrow, the passing of our cherished Advisory Board member, Seif Ashmawy. Seif, an Egyptian immigrant who came to the U.S. in pursuit of freedom, was a constant, vocal and cour
 CAMPBELL-Henry J. We mourn with sadness our past-chairman, and celebrate his tireless efforts on behalf of the Guide Dog Foundation and those we serve. Our hearts are with Betty and family. Board of Directors, Staff and Graduates Guide Dog Foundation For The Blind       
 DINSTEIN-Haim. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the passing, in Israel, of Haim Dinstein, the beloved father of the President of Tel Aviv University, Professor Yoram Dinstein. Haim Dinstein was a distinguished Israeli lawyer who practiced law until his 90s. During his youth
 HERST-Craig Charles. 31. Of Breckenridge, CO, passed away after a long illness on January 22, 1998. Craig is survived by his loving mother Terry S. Herst, father Perry S. Herst Jr., brother Perry III uncle Joseph C. Stamler and aunt Susan Stamler of Rumson, NJ; grandfather Perry S. Herst of
 LYDGATE-William A. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of United Hospital Fund mourn the loss of an esteemed former board member and supporter of New York's hospitals. During his 15 years of service to the Fund, he shared his wisdom and expertise and actively chaired the ann
 MARCUS-Rouben. Beloved husband and companion of the late Frances, father of Richard, fatherin-law of Barbara, grandfather of Jay and Sam, brother of Esther Backer (Max) and Berta Weiner, loving uncle and great uncle. He was a veteran who served his country. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died Ja
 MAULTASCH-Manny. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member, Manny Maultasch, and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Minna and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Philip Adler       
 MAY-Samuel. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Samuel May, beloved father of Peter May, a dedicated member of our Board and our dear friend. Our hearts and prayers go out to Samuel's wife Isabel, son and daughter-inlaw Peter and Leni May, daughter and
 MILLSTEIN-Alan G. On Friday, January 23, 1998. Dear friend, former husband. A man of piercing intelligence, uncommon wit, unique perspective, with wide interests in art, theater, the cinema, and a love of New York City. I am eternally grateful to him for always making me laugh and for intro
 MONAHAN-John Paul, III. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John Paul Monahan, III, a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian   
 NEU-Harold Conrad, M.D. Of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of Dr. Carmen Neu, father of Maria Rorer, Harold A. Neu and Natalie Neu, M.D. Mass 10 AM Wednesday, St. Matthews Church, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Visiting Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford (Saw Mill Ext 17), Dobbs Ferry, NY Tu
 PARAUDA-Joseph R. The Putney Twombly Family mourns the loss of our dear friend and respected Managing Partner who died on January 23, 1998. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Martina, their children and family. We share your loss. The Partners, Associates and Staff Putney Twombly H
 RICH-Jack C. Sculptor and author of ''The Materials and Methods of Sculpture'' and ''Sculpture in Wood''-both published by Oxford University Press, died January 25, 1998 following a long struggle with emphysema. Although he rarely exhibited, his sculpture had been shown at the Metropolitan 
 ROSENBERG-Louis L. We feel profound sorrow in the loss of our beloved Board member and former President. For 30 years he provided devoted leadership and wise counsel in behalf of the disadvantged and the disabled. Served by the Brooklyn Bureau Community Serice. His vigorous advocacy and gen
 SCHWARZ-Herbert. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Herbert Schwarz, a past President and Board Member. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Andrew J. Frankel, Pre
 WEILER-George A. 83. Of NY City and Garrison, NY on January 25. Beloved husband of Barbara Carroll, devoted father of Jane and John Weiler and Ellen Stiefler, loving grandfather of Zachary, Timothy and Robert Stiefler, Daniel and Joshua Schneider-Weiler and Margaret Weiler; born Deal NJ; gr
 Randolph Symonette, a baritone who sang at the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Jan. 1 at Willow Place, a nursing home in Windsor, N.Y. He was 88. Mr. Symonette was born in Inagua, the Bahamas, and studied voice at the New School in Manhattan. He made his New 
 Robert Friend, a poet, translator and educator, died on Jan. 12 in Jerusalem, where he lived. He was 84. Mr. Friend's first book of verse, ''Shadow on the Sun,'' was published in 1941. His work appeared in many publications, including The New Yorker, The Atlantic, Partisan Review an
 Shinichi Suzuki, whose revolutionary methods for teaching music led millions of youngsters around the world to study the violin using the ''Suzuki Method,'' died this morning at his home in Matsumoto, Japan. He was 99. Mr. Suzuki's approach to teaching music was considered groundbre
 Donald Davis, the distinguished Canadian actor who played the title role in the New York premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' died on Friday at Wellesley Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 69. He died of a lung disease, said his sister Barbara Chilcott.      
 Henry A. Loeb, financier and philanthropist, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 90. Mr. Loeb had been since its founding two decades ago the vice chairman of the Loeb Partners Corporation, a Manhattan-based investment firm whose president is Thomas L. Kempner 
 Jack Amsterdam, a manufacturer of electrical equipment and a philanthropist, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 91 and had residences in Ossining, N.Y., and Manhattan. At his death, Mr. Amsterdam was the board chairman of Leviton Manufacturing, based in Little Neck
 AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jack Amsterdam, a generous supporter of UJA-Federation. Through his generosity to our Capital Development Fund, he strengthened health-care services at Long Island Jewish Medical C
 EPSTEIN-William. Of Manhattan and Shenorock, N.Y. On January 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Janice (Kaufman). Adored father of Carla Silber and loving father-inlaw of Dan. Dear brother of Theodore, the late Dr. Alexander and Lillian Carlish. Brother-in-law of Mary Kaufman and Priscilla Epstei
 FRANK-Jack. On January 24, 1998. Past President of The Retired School Supervisors and Administrators Local 1R AFSA. Jack Frank was a giant of a man. I am not speaking about stature, I am speaking about intellect, character and being a fine person. Jack loved life and he loved his work. He w
 HELLER-Ernest S. ''Pick''. The Board of Composers' Showcase, is deeply saddened by the death of Pick Heller. His wisdom, loyalty and support will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to Red Heller, his beloved wife. Composers' Showcase Board       
 HIRSCHLER-Andre. He was much esteemed in the cooperative community in which he lived and served for many years as President of the Board and most recently as a Director. We found Mr. Hirschler at all times a man of understanding, sympathy, learning and integrity who always sought to do his 
 KAPLAN-Barnett. Beloved husband of Renee and the late Rosalyn. Loving father of Judith Kaplan, Barbara and Mitchell Davich and stepfather to Karen and Peter Blumenfeld, Alan and Sue Adler. Devoted brother of Ruth Schneider and Florence Abrams. Brotherin-law of Muriel Fisher. Cherished grand
 LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Ti
 MAY-Samuel D. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life mourns the passing of Samuel D. May, beloved father of our benefactor and Board of Governors member, Peter May. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Samuel's wife Isabel, his daughter Linda Sklar, and the entire May and Sklar fami
 MELINKER-Nathan. Born on January 17, 1923 in Brooklyn, died January 16, 1998 in Castro Valley, CA. He served in the Pacific during W.W. II and earned a Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. He graduated from NYU in 1951 with a BSEd and was a licensed Physical Therapist. His beloved wife, Yolan
 MURPHY-Dr. Joseph S. On behalf of the Board, the members and the students of the Consortium for Worker Education, we express our profound sadness over the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Joseph S. Murphy. He was a dedicated advocate and leader who never forgot the importance of edu
 NEU-Harold C. The faculty, staff and current and past students and fellows of the Divisions of infectious Diseases in internal Medicine and in Pediatrics sadly mourn the passing of Harold C. Neu, M.D. He was a dynamic leader, a distinguished investigator in development and use of antimicrob
 SACHS-Bernard. Beloved husband of Bernice. Loving father of Mark and Sherryl. Brother of Murray and Jerry. Grandfather of Joshua. Services will be private. Donations in his memory to the Alzheimers Association will be appreciated.       
 WATSON-Gavin H., 91. Died on Saturday, January 24, 1998 at his home in Sullivan. He was born in Passaic, NJ, March 13, 1906, the son of William W. and Anne (Gay) Watson. Gavin graduated from Williams College in 1929, at which time he enrolled at Harvard Business School, graduating in 1932. 
 Sir Anthony Glyn, the free-spirited British author of a dozen books of biography, fiction and travel memoirs, died on Jan. 20 at his home in the south of France. He was 75. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Lady Glyn. He had been ill for several years. 
 Walter D. Edmonds, the author of ''Drums Along the Mohawk'' and many other historical novels set in upstate New York, died on Saturday at his home in Concord, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Edmonds was best known for his realistic representations of history as seen through the lives of ordina
 Dr. Harold C. Neu, an expert on treating infectious diseases who warned early on of the growing bacterial resistance to antibiotics, died Sunday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a brain tumor, which had been diagnosed in 1993, his family said.        
 AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Murray B. Hirsch, President Howard Ecker, Secretary       
 FORAUER-William. Of complications following heart failure at 6:45A.M., on January 28, seven hours after his 74th birthday. His life's companion, Elmer Gross, died one year ago and so he leaves behind friends including the many people who used to visit him at the WEG Gallery for his endless 
 GAREL-E. Frederick III (Gary). An untimely, bewildering time in his life that we share. Survived by his father Fred Garel, stepmother Mimi Lamb, brother Vernon, sister Sharon Descautoux and his beloved nieces and nephews. For further information please call his father (212-874-5029).       
 GARSON-Sam. On January 28, 1998, at the age of 91. Father of Gerald P. Garson, Justice of the NYS Supreme Court. Husband of the late Eva Garson, a woman of valor. Grandfather, great-grandfather, uncle, devoted brother and to all who knew him, he was oneof-a-kind. Services today, 1 PM, Weins
 GROSS-Rose (Fensterheim). On January 27, loving mother of Elliot and Florey, Judith and Irvin Franklin, Eleanore and Burton Garfinkel; beloved wife of the late Simeon F. Gross and the late Harry Fensterheim. Matriach of a dynasty consisting of nine grandchildren and their spouses, 18 wonder
 HIRSCH-Mina. The Board of Directors, participants, staff and friends of AHRC-NYC convey their deepest condolences to George Hirsch, Board member, Officer and Past President of the Association, upon the tragic passing of his wife, Mina. Our hearts and prayers are with you and your family. Ma
 LEVINSON-David, 69. Resident of Manhattan, on January 28, 1998. Beloved and devoted husband of Barbara for 47 years. Adored father of Ellen and Stephen Gross of Paris, France and Lisa and Edward Satterthwaite of Philadelphia, PA. Grandpa Dave of Julian, Alex and Sacha of Paris, France. Devo
 LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Ti
 MARCUS-Richard Alan. Of Fort Lauderdale died suddenly January 22nd. He is survived by his three children Barbara, Kimberly and Scott, his sister Joan Raffe and by his nieces and nephews. He was born in NY City, and graduated from City College of N.Y. and then received his law degree from th
 NEU-Harold Conrad, M.D. With deep sorrow we acknowledge the passing of our esteemed colleague who was Chief of Infectious Diseases at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He has been an inspirational teacher, clinician, scientist and friend who has made numerous important contributions to 
 PARIS-Ira Eugene. Beloved husband of Viviane. Father of Glenn. Loving step-father of Nicole Joy and Douglas Rubens. Grandfather of Alexandra and Molly. Special Gampi to his cherished Lexie. Service Thursday 10AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. PARIS-Ira. The 
 RENZ-Walter A. On January 27th, at New York Hospital. Loving husband of Janet, devoted father of Penny (deceased) and Muffy, and grandfather of Jake and Delaney McDonough and is survived by his sister, Eleanor. His loss will be felt by many friends, his nieces and their families. Mr. Renz w
 SILVERMAN - Nathan. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System express deepest sympathies to our esteemed CoPresident and CEO, Dr. David R. Dantzker, and his wife, Sherrye, on the loss of Sherrye's father, Nathan. We extend sincere condolences to Nathan
 TISON-Joseph Southwood. Of Wilton Road West in Ridgefield, CT., died at his home Tuesday, January 27, after a long battle with cancer. He was 54. Born June 23, 1943, in Savannah, Georgia, he was the son of the late Henry Lawton and Edna Williamson Tison of Savannah, GA. A graduate of the Sa
 Walter Bishop Jr., a jazz pianist who recorded with Charlie Parker, Miles Davis and others, died on Saturday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his sister, Marian Jeffries. Mr. Bishop was 
 Willy A. Fiedler, a German-born aerospace expert who was active in Nazi Germany's V-1 ramjet-powered missile program and helped design American submarine-launched missiles like the Polaris after the war, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Fiedler w
 Cameron Clark, a partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison for more than two decades, died on Jan. 15 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 53 and had homes on the Upper East Side and in Tuxedo Park, N.Y., and Seal Harbor, Maine. The cau
 Gustav S. Eyssell, a former treasurer of a Kansas City, Mo., vaudeville and movie house who rose to be president of Radio City Music Hall and later of Rockefeller Center, died on Wednesday at his home in Loudoun County, Va. He was 96. Mr. Eyssell, known as Gus, became an executive o
 Joseph L. Alioto, the two-term Mayor of San Francisco during the city's most dynamic growth in the late 1960's and early 1970's and a lawyer who earned millions of dollars with the nation's largest civil antitrust practice, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 81 and had pros
 ANWANDTER-Jorge Ignacio, 38. Emerging Markets, Investments Banker. Died of cancer Tuesday, January 27, 1998 at Greenwich Hospital, after a long and heroic struggle. Born on July 31, 1959 in Santiago, Chile, he was the son of Jorge and Eliana Anwandter. Mr. Anwandter married Patricia Beemer 
 BRODY-Burton H. The former Chief Litigation Counsel for Nabisco until his retirement in 1988, died of a heart attack after a long illness on January 18, 1998, at the age of 72. He was an attorney in private practice in New York City for over 25 years, as well as being Adjunct Professor at N
 FALKENSTEIN-Paula. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Burton Falkenstein on the loss of his beloved wife and to children Howie and Noah on the loss of their beloved mother. May the the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosen
 HIRSCH-Mina. The Board of Directors, participants, staff and friends of AHRC-NYC convey their deepest condolences to George Hirsch, Board member, Officer and Past President of the Association, upon the tragic passing of his wife, Mina. Our hearts and prayers are with you and your family. Ma
 KURASCH-Martin. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Martin Kurasch, First General Counsel for Israel Bonds from 1951 to 1984. Since the Organization's inception, Martin's integrity, knowledge and kind heart earned him the respect of all who worked wit
 LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Ti
 LOSAPIO-Gregory A. We mourn the sudden loss of a true and loving friend whose smile, kind words and gentle demeanor will be missed by us and his many friends. Our most sincere condolences to his heartbroken family. Patrick and Lia Grasso       
 MOLBERGER - Neil. Cherished son of Helen Gruber and the late Melvin Molberger. Beloved stepson of Murray Gruber. Adored brother of Sharon Draghi, Daryl Kulok and Barry Gruber. Loving uncle of Charlie, Georgia and Benjamin. Neil left us far too soon. He touched the hearts of all who loved hi
 MURPHY-Dr. Joseph S. District Council 37, AFSCME, AFL-CIO and its constituent locals mourn the untimely loss of Dr. Joseph S. Murphy, former Chancellor of the City University of New York and a strong advocate for working people's education. Our members who work for the City University syste
 NEU-Harold C., M.D. The members of the New York Society of Infectious Diseases mark, with deep sadness, the death of Harold C. Neu, M.D., the first President of our Society. Dr. Neu was a most esteemed colleague and friend, who distinguished himself as a physician, educator and scientist. F
 PARIS-Ira. The Trustees and staff of Intracoastal Health Systems, Inc., mourn the passing of their friend and supporter. Heartfelt condolences to his wife and family members. PARIS-Ira. A talented friend who loved life and knew how to live it. Sincere condolences to Vivian and the f
 ROSS-Henry (Hank) L. Jr. On January 26, 1998. in Palm Springs, CA. Born in New Haven, Conn., September 20, 1928. The son of Henry L. and Olivia White Ross. Graduate of Phillips Andover in 1946 and Yale University in 1950. Retired from Pfizer Pharmaceuticals as member Board of Directors and 
 SABBATINO-Joseph, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of their esteemed colleage who served the institution for thirty years. Dr. Sabbatino was a dedicated physician who always showed a sincere concern for his patien
 SINEK-Herbert. On January 29, 1998, at age 73 at his home in Chappaqua after a long illness. Survived with enduring love by his wife Marion, his children Nicole Arnaboldi and Ronald Sinek, their spouses Leo and Jennifer, and his grandchildren Peter, Brenton and Andrew. The family will recei
 SNIZEK-John Edward. January 28, 1998, in Largo, Florida, at age 81. Longtime resident of Bayside, NY, he is survived by his wife of 50 years, Nellie, and daughter, Jean Reddish, of Sherman, Texas, sons, Michael of Westfield, New Jersey, and Paul of Harrisburg, PA. Longtime meatpacker and em
 BLOOM-Eli. Our friend, father and grandfather. In our hearts he is remembered with more love each day.       
 The Rev. Samuel Austin, pastor of Brown Memorial Baptist Church of Brooklyn and a leader in his 8.5-million member denomination, the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., died last Friday in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Brooklyn. He had attended the midwinter board meeting of t
 William Wood Prince, a prominent Chicago businessman and philanthropist, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Chicago. He was 83. Mr. Wood Prince, who was born in St. Louis as William Henry Wood, was a distant cousin of Frederick H. Prince, whose Prince Trust controlled the Union Stockyar
 Ahmed D. Kafadar, an entrepreneurial engineer who led the development of the explosive triggers used in automobile air bags, died of a heart attack on Jan. 17. He was 82 years old and lived in Englewood, Colo. Mr. Kafadar earned a master's degree from the Colorado School of Mines in
 Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto picked a former prosecutor today to be the nation's new Finance Minister, a surprise choice suggesting there may be further assaults on corruption and clubbiness in Japanese financial circles. Hikaru Matsunaga, 69, who is chairman of the budget commi
 Lionel Wilson, who presided over a racial, cultural, economic and political revolution during three terms as the first black mayor of Oakland, Calif., then suffered shattering defeat when he sought another four-year term in 1990, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Oakland. He was 82. Hi
 CARTELLI-Thomas. Esq. The Columbian Lawyers Association First Judicial Department, notes with deep sorrow the passing of our first president and founding father. We send our most heartfelt condelences to his family and thank them for their generous request that, in lieu of flowers, donation
 GOLDBERG-Rabbi Julius. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1953, he served The Plainview Jewish Center for over four decades, first as senior then as rabbi emeritus. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Bette, children Rachel, Dr. Harry, and R
 LOEB-Henry A. Mr. Loeb was elected in 1955 to replace his father, Carl M. Loeb, on the Board of Valeria Home, later renamed, in 1975, as The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation. He took his duties as a Director with high seriousness. Always punctual, perspicacious and perceptive, he brou
 PLOTKIN-Harry Morris. On Friday, January 30, 1998 at his residence. Husband of the late Esther Plotkin; father of Ira Lev Plotkin (Kay); Judith Deborah Wilkenfeld (Jonathan); brother of Melvin Plotkin (Esther); Norman Plotkin (Rosalind) and Lena Gordon. Also survived by his grandchildren, N
 ROSSINOW-Leo. 83. Died Jan. 23, 1998, in Delray Beach, FL, leaving his beloved wife Lorna, daughter Jayne Cantor and son David.       
 SHANBLATT-Rabbi Sanford D. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. After ordination, he was an army chaplain in Korea. He served congregations in Swampscott, and Pittsfield, MA., Buffalo, N.Y. and at his death was the rabbi of Congregation Melrose B'nai Israel Emanu-el o
 Wilbert C. Morey, an amusement park entrepreneur who built a gaudy empire of candy-colored motels and kitschy pier-side entertainments on the Jersey Shore, died Jan. 22 in Los Angeles while awaiting a lung transplant. He was 70 and lived in Wildwood, N.J., an island south of Atlantic City t
